Publication date: February 8, 1970
Volume: three
Issue number: seven

**MASTHEAD**
- Editors: Herman Hong, Paul Goldberger
- Managing Editor: Dan Mcintyre
- Executive Editor: Stephen Thomas
- Business Manager: William Palmer
- Designer: Nicki Kalish
- Copy Editors: Richard Caples, Stuart Klawans
- Production Manager: Jack Friedman
- Advertising Manager: Charles H. S. Chapman
- Assistant Editors: Charles Draper, Bryan Di Salvatore, George Kannar, Edward Landler, David Meter, Sam Miller
- Circulation Managers: John Callaway, Thomas Davison
- Contributing Editors: Susan Braudy, David Freeman, Mopsy Strange Kennedy, Lawrence Lasker, Jonathan Lear, Michael Lerner, Leo Ribuffo, Walter Wagoner
- Staff: Jay Adkinc;, Richard Conniff, Jack Friedman, Joanne Lawless, Cathie Lutter, Patrick Lydon, Gus Oliver, Pat O'Rourke, Manuel Perez, Barbara Rich, James Rosenzweig, Lynne Rutkin, Ann Wagner


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- The real underground - by------
- Is the novel dying? - Henri Peyre
- The Patriots try to change history - George Kannar
- Dick Cavett is a Yalie - Martha Gershun
- Letters: the medical school


**Title: Comment: A naked Eli, a graffiti wall that found a strange enemy and some dialogue on Yale med.**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 2**

You really don't hear too much talk about Yale's mission to produce a thousand leaders a year any more. Last year, with the Singer Report and its accompanying rhetoric, it was still in the air, but even then it was dying, and now, as the Seventies are upon us, Yale's obligation to give society her bankers and stockbrokers is all but forgotten.


Not only are new graduates forsaking the old ways, but a little liberation is beginning to seep down to recent alumni, too. There's one Skull and Bones man-Jerry Clark, '65-who no longer wears a three-piece suit. In fact, he no longer wears anything at all. Clark, a professional actor, has been making his living in a nude revue in New York, "The Way It Is," a show of the "Oh, Calcutta!" genre that until a couple of weeks ago was playing at a new theatre on the Upper West Side. It's a long subway ride away from Wall Street.


The show wasn't very good. In fact, Clark quite frankly calls it "the worst show I've ever done." But he also calls it "liberating," which is a hell of a way for a Bones man to be making his living. "It's sort of like skinny-dipping," he says. "It all hinges on whether you're comfortable in your own body. There are a lot of people who shouldn't take their clothes off."


The cast rehearsed fully clothed; nudity did not emerge until the dress rehearsal-or a close approximation to a dress rehearsal since the confused management of "The Way It Is," anxious to capitalize on New York's nudity craze, never got organized enough to schedule a real rehearsal. The skits-full of men's room jokes and worse-were written by a middle-aged Westchester dentist and rehearsed by the cast as the dentist's forty-ish wife sat in the front row and scowled.


Once things finally got under way-at $7.50 a head-the show began to attract fairly good crowds. Most were male-"They were all there to see the boys," Clark acknowledges-and very few were below thirty. Later in the run, many of the older Jewish couples from the theatre's West Side neighborhood began to fill the audience, providing an appropriately bizarre foil for the picture of a Skull and Bones man frolicking nude on the stage.


Jewish matrons, however, cannot make a show, even one with a Yalie in the raw, and "The Way It Is," alas, folded in mid-January at considerable financial loss.


Maybe the liberation ain't all that widespread after all-when some of the other '65 Bones men came to see their brother make the big time they laughed, but when they came backstage to congratulate ol' Jerry they seemed sort of nervous, and then they sort of gazed back and forth at their wives and they didn't know what to think.


High class bathroom inscriptions seem to be quite the rage these days-not that they ever were not, of course, but now literacy talent is becoming increasingly visible in the handwritings on the wall. Such is the case in one bathroom in Ezra Stiles College, where a talented group of limerick and epigram writers created a stall that was a virtual gallery of eloquent graffiti. The curious flocked from miles around-well, from entryways around-to see this stall, and its creators were justly proud. They had deftly wedded man's baser instincts with the higher arts.


But alas, not all agreed, and one sad morning last week the poets-in-residence entered their inner sanctum to find their graffiti gone, the tiles washed clean, and in place of their work, a clenched, Magic Marker-red fist.


Surely, they reasoned, this could not be the work of a puritan minded custodian. It wasn't. It was, it turned out, a member of New Haven Women's Liberation who took it upon herself to censor these gentlemen's creations.


Of all people, indeed.


Walking through the campus, one is impressed with the solidity of the buildings, with their sheer stoniness. Perhaps it is this manifest capacity to endure that convinces the alumni that Yale in its most essential parts is unchanged. From 1937 to 1966 under the editorship of Buzz Bronson, the Yale Alumni Magazine participated in this judgment. The magazine recorded the anniversaries and histories of old buildings and the ground-breakings and dedications of new ones, the successes and failures in game-by-game detail of the various teams, and in the "Class Notes," the present doings of the sons of Yale. Most of the message seemed to be that, although growing, the old blue mother was unaltered, that she is what she was, alma mater.


Perhaps that was all very true for the largest portion of Bronson's time as editor. The world was not quite so much with Yale, and the world itself, had it been there, probably would have sat down, shut up and worked for a B.A. Now everybody stomps out or occupies. Nobody shuts up, and the worth of a B.A. is questioned by students and Spiro T. alike.


So Bronson's successor was in for a very different world and, as Yale became involved in it, a very different home-ground for his magazine. In addition, the average age and degree of professionalism of his audience had shifted. About the time of Bronson's retirement, the number of alumni from the graduate schools began to equal the number from Yale College, and the number of alumni graduated after 1950 began to equal the number graduated before. It is to the credit of Bronson's successor, William Hamilton Jones, that he did not ignore change or the world, and that he presumed and believed in the expertise and humanity of his readers.


Tony Jones' intent was to use the magazine not just as a memory prod for old blues but as quite another kind of prod. It became the instrument of connection between Yale and the issues uprooting American society, between the Yale of now and the mythical Yale, and, consequently, between all those things and the alumni. The "Class Notes" remained. "At the University" continued, changing only as its subject matter changed-and that is very much. The feature articles were less about sports and buildings and more about faculty and student reflections on their roles at Yale and Yale's role in the community and the country. Breaking with Bronson's precedent, articles on issues independent of the University-drugs, poverty, educational experimentation, welfare reform and the family and its functions-made their appearance.


Joel Katz, responsible for the shape of Tony's intent, has photographed Yale with incisive, touching precision. His pictures are less often presentations of an article's author or action shots, than they are reflections, giving one a sense of the specialness and revelatory character of the objects and faces photographed.


Katz drastically changed the magazine's graphics too. The mix of heads, columns and photographs makes one glad to look and curious to read. The print stands up straighter and sturdier more often, refusing the temptation to slop into a more decorative, narrow-limbed and nostalgic slouch. The equality of size formerly allotted to each word of the magazine's title-Yale as large as Alumni as large as Magazine-has been disturbed. Yale is biggest of all, and without closer examination, one might take yAM to be Yale Magazine-and he would be half-close to right.


The magazine has consistently refused to pander to the need to reminisce. It is about Yale now, which is far more extended than Yale then. Ex-Yalies seeking escape into those more distant, sheltered and dead-end times have been denied. And they have complained achingly; perhaps much as they complained when they wrote that first paper or did all that research Junior year.


So Jones has realized his intent. The magazine has come to function for the alumni as the University once did-it educates them-and not as radical to liberal, but as Socrates to the Athenians.


Jones gave up the editor's spot last summer. As a result, Katz had to change his outlook from one whose primary concern was with the magazine's graphics to one that included its editorial content as well. But now Katz is leaving too. And with him goes the dazzling fact of collaboration with Jones between 1966 and 1969.


Ren Fructin, now acting editor, has one hard job ahead.


Sandra J. Turner


**Title: The real underground**
**Page number(s): 3**

At first I suppose it is the noise that you notice most, followed by the wave of heat. It sounds like hell. Like Hell, that is. A kind of whistling, mingled with the sighing of many souls. Not an intense sound but a primeval one. You know it has been going on in there for a long time.


Tentatively you enter, and the door, old and heavy, swings shut-a bit too quickly for comfort-and you turn to lock it again with some reluctance. But you have to. Then the sound, that geothermal sound, so unequivocally there, begins to recede and become a part of you and where you are: the Tunnels.


Everyone has heard about them. Some of them have been momentarily humanized-De Basement in Berkeley College, dramatics, Merriwell "raids" on Commons in the Old Days ("Gosh, Prof., how'd the President's Cassock get up there?"). But most, the vast and forbidden network, connecting all of Yale underground, exists as rumor-the tunnel beneath the tunnel, the door with no number that opens on a stairway going down, the partly overheard, lunchline conversation of that senior next door of a "secret" below ground route edging mystically close to (penetrating?) Book and Snake.


Keys are a requisite for the Yale tunnels. Not special ones, but an accretion of the common passkeys that sprout from the corrupt aide, the unwary janitor, the power plant man out for lunch. But most stop at the College gates; after all one is enough. They don't work everywhere. You hear another rumor in the key crowd: the Grand Master. It will open any Yale (Sargent) lock. Then you begin to notice keys; trade them; and above all, copy them. A word about keys at that. Besides the room number, so homey, so used and warmly stamped, there are other signs. "LN" and "LC," in a lozenge, elsewhere maybe a faint M. They seem to be associated with the longitudinal grooves in the key. So that's why Branford doesn't fit Silliman! But does Silliman fit the impenetrable Branford attic storerooms? Try it and see.


It is the older Yale that is the mother lode of doors. Morse and Stiles, even unto Beinecke, have disappointingly finite doors, ingenuous and exposed and postwar piping, featureless and integrated paneling with lights. Where are the groaning and lockwired valves, hidden poorly behind moldering composition board insulation? No plastics. Where are the fine brass knife-switches to plunge the Old Campus into darkness in April? Where are the pipes that carry the sweltering heat to the sixth floor of Calhoun?


The infinite doors of the old Colleges and the Old Campus. You are trying your keys (all three, by this time, with two promised and one hinted) on the way back from dinner thinking you can enter the tunnels to avoid the winter rain. None of the keys work much of anything. Some firewood, wrecked bicycles, DC-AC converters (God, imagine having one of them in the room to run the KLH?), dust, the smell of stone and exfoliating plush couches, some andirons. Nothing much. The old darkroom, and then ... valves, pipes and noises. Finally something not useful, but interesting. And very much bigger than you had thought. And in the rear, another door, an iron door with a bar, and a different lock. Your three keys don't fit, and the door is warm. It must be, you think, the tunnels, the Steam Tunnels. And now you know why the maintenance men have such a big ring of keys. And so you forget about keys and the tunnels for a while; over vacation and reading period, why bother?


But there was a time in the life of every Yale man in those desolate 1950's when he made it to the Tunnels. The chance would come perhaps when a door was left open next to the squash courts, perhaps when a really daring friend would unscrew



**The Tunnels**
**Author:  Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
41 The New Journal! February 8, 1970 
the old lock and replace it with his very 
own from the Bicycle Shop. But somehow, 
the day would come. 

And then there it was. The same tunnel 
that James Gamble Rogers designed and 
didn't tell the world about when he drew 
up the plans for the hulks of Sterling 
Library and the Law School just above .... . 
There is room to walk freely, to stand up, 
to leave the iron door a few quick steps 
behind before smashing your forehead on 
a transverse pipe ... and then you move 
on. 

The Tunnels are not to be explored by 
one person. There are no maps. When you 
emerge your roommate sees, besides your 
skinned temple, that you are dusty and 
covered with sweat. You had hardly noticed except that the courtyard felt 
deliciously cool. 

A few nights later, after this beginning 
test, the real thing, the real trip. You, 
avoiding the late paper, your roommate 
finished (as usual) with his, are glimpsed 
in the basement by two squash players. 
An odd sight: flashlights (two), keys (up to 
five, now) on rings (like the pros), tools 
(pliers, screwdrivers in three sizes-including a Philips head), wirecutters, compasses 
(BSA 1954 issue), a little string (remember 
Theseus?), and the most expendable jogging-
shirt, culled from the bottom of the 
bureau drawer, still redolent of the fall's 
bladderball. 

The new lock works perfectly, the inner-
door opens easily, but it seems darker. 
There is no dim light to become accustomed to; it is darkroom-black and you are 
heading north from JE in a wide high 
corridor, flanked by the huge pipes and 
their sound, following the flashlights' 
beam. Shortly, a branch to the left. Duck 
some pipes, be careful. About a hundred 
degrees hot, but getting cooler. Turn back 
from what must be the Pierson-Davenport 
analog to your entrance and rejoin the 
main stream. Another hundred yards, and 
the sound is much louder, and then a sharp 
bend, and the noise is almost deafening-
do you dare get closer? It is a huge valve, 
dripping with scalding water and shrieking as the steam turns the corners of its 
construction. You duck by it nervously and 
head on slowly and suddenly emerge into 
light. A roomful of pipes and valves, obviously a control room of some kind beneath Saybrook. Lots of little machines, 
pumps, panels with switches. But too well 
lit to stop and hang around. Find an exit 
where the tunnel continues, and notice for 
the first time the manhole covers ten feet 
overhead, the gratings. That is why it is 
cooler. But dark again, and you talk in 
whispers as it gets hotter and narrower, 
the pipes crowding in. Then inevitably, 
another door. A patient selection of keys, 
"LN" is sticky but it works. It actually 
works, under the ground! A little cocky, 
now, and not prepared for the next door, 
a gate. The flashlights are failing, the heat 
enervating and getting worse especially 
where the tunnel rises to cross something 
(what?) and the ceiling pinches down. You 
could faint in there from the heat. Next 
time, bring salt tablets. 

The gate, near the Library. It's easy with 
some bent pliers to hold the hasp bolts 
through the grating. And then in the massive sub-basement of the Sterling Library. 
It is big and there are large stairs and the 
bottom of the elevator shaft is there-where 
the elevator would stop if the operator 
piled on a few too many negative g's on 
the trip down from the Boswell Room. 
Where you would stop. The basement of 
Sterling is a bad place to be coin-theft-wise 
so try to find a way through. Dead end. 
Big iron doors, hot to the touch. To HGS? 
The Law School? But all locked. And you 
know that up above, in the nave of the 
Sterling, The Gutenberg Bible rested once 
in splendor, lit in its glass case on a bronze 
pedestal, glowing all night through. (What 
if, years before the Beinecke had removed 
all hope of-if not dreams of-acquisition, 
the metal stairway up from the Sterling 
sub-sub-sub-sub-basement had been used 
for the archetypical prank? The plans are 
laid: one group through the tunnels across 
the pipes, up the stairs to the door inside 
the men's room anteroom. Another to 
wait in the room for corroboration of the 
"harmless prank" aspect of the raid. And 
another two to climb, burlap (what else?) 
sack in hand, up the stone stairs and to 
dash, cutters ready, into the light, to work 
swiftly, smoothly, the brain surgeons, on 
the glass and to remove the precious Bible, 
one of twelve, they said, in the world. 

And then down, and back, smudged, 
perhaps out a Saybrook door, into the 
trunk with the cargo, and then ... to 
Argentina? Or to my room in JE, where 
campus police would never think to tread. 
Laugh on, you skeptics, I still maintain 
to this day that we could have pulled it off. 

Backtracking to some places where the 
pipes proliferate and disappear off to one 
side. Time to crawl a little, which is what 
you've been trying to avoid thinking about 
too much. But promises of Berkeley and 
possibly the Old Campus draw you on. A 
very bad trip, you discover, as you realize 
that just beyond the pipes there are about 
four inches of grey dust that you have just 
bellied through. It goes well with sweat: 

And then in new, fresh, standing room an 
old ladder leans against a demolished 
brick wall, with more blackness beyond. 
One of the old foundations. Over the top 
and into hands-and-knees crawling past 
the brick footings of Berkeley, below all 
the tunnels on the sand of native New 
Haven. You could get lost in there, easily, 
if your lights went out. A very bad scene 
to imagine. 

Bricks and rubble everywhere and the 
constant problem of aiming the flashlight 
while crawling; no wonder miners wear 
those hats. Emerging to some more room 
to stand, or crouch rather, and see a new 
opening ahead, over the pipes and cables. 
A tunnel once again. It feels good to stand 
up in the heat and feel familiar concrete 
underfoot ... to feel familiar Yale there. 

It is time for confident striding, for the 
knowledgeable fending off of cobwebs, 
and avoiding the hot pipes and looking for 
cryptic chalkmarks of masons and electricians and plumbers working together. 
Their message of long ago is for you: 
"21 ft. Vlv 234 Nov 7 36." Confident and 
free beneath (you think) the Berkeley 
tunnel heading north (you're sure). And 
the tunnel turns, just where it should, but 
does not go up the stairs and on to Commons in the sunlight, that familiar route to 
rainsoaked Freshmen. The tunnel goes on 
-the stairs, when you do come to them, go 
down to you, so a test is made: to climb 
up, and carefully open the unmarked door 
from the wrong side and see the friendly 
basement hallway. But in a new way, an 
alien. 

So back down and gleefully on to Commons in Dink Stover's path. "Grub Street" 
is submerged and commodious, and even 
lit, and you enter the ancient kitchens but 
touch nothing because being there, getting there is what matters. Under Commons, Yale enters the ground with confidence and opulence with wide ramps and 
screened-off, pre-refrigeration vegetable 
coolers. It is cool and airy, and in the distant stairwell light there are the ubiquitous 
white tiles that link you to the surface. 

Here are more rumors: that you can get 
from Commons to the Physics labs; that 
there are crawlways there too; that there 
are trunklines of cables; that it is easy to 
get lost, and the locks are unfamiliar; that 
is a winding way, fraught with cul-de-sacs. 
But how does the tunnel get under the 
railroad tracks? You are beginning to 
notice the topography. There are many 
very old buildings on the way; do these 
have central heating, city power? Or are 
they fed too by the Plant? And the new 
buildings in the Kline complex. Wonder 
at the incredible basis of the Tower; can 
you crawl below those massive pediments? 
Or is it like Harkness Tower, unassailable. 
You remember a stone, visible from Branford courtyard ... "taken from the bedrock seventy-four feet below the ground." 
Can you hear the bells there? 

The sciences are best approached directly, from their own entrances, with 
a separate set of keys. So turn to the Law 
School, or to Silliman and Byers Hall and 
perhaps on to Timothy Dwight. But you 
have seen their tunnels shining up at you 
in the daylight, as opulent as Grub Street. 
And who can tell about Book and Snake; 
what strange exudate of ritual lies below 
its Doric block? Beinecke Library is a 
foregone conclusion; you have heard how 
it sinks three stories to a concrete slab, 
how the pumps worked night and day to 
keep its foundations dry, and most of all, 
like Morse and Stiles, it is new and has not 
found its alliance with the dirt. And so 
threading (the heat back again in force) 
east of Commons. It is very hard going-
the worst yet as the concrete walkway 
pinches and heaves, and loose cordons of 
cables make seeing difficult. 

The heat is becoming fantastic. At one 
abrupt rise, a sort of gas-dome (Science II 
is full of handy analogies), the temperature 
rises and the heat is very bad. Later you 
enter from the Law School with a lab 
thermometer and it reads 180 degrees 
Fahrenheit. You check your reading to 
be sure. That's what it is there, 180 degrees. And very dark, a red dark. But 
the dome is passed, and the temperature 
drops to a refreshing 110°, which is like 
a cool breeze as you walk together slowly 
toward HGS-and inevitably, what had 
seemed so far away, the Power Plant. 

HGS is ignored. Who cares? The Power 
Plant. There are more pipes, more heat 
and a new noise. Most of all, a new noise. 
The shrillness is still there, but the note, 
the fundamental, is emerging as a deep 
humming, fitted to the heat. You are conscious of the giant rushing outward of heat 
and power through the pipes as you 
wriggle and twist past the outcrops of 
bulkheads. You can feel yourself getting 
nearer. 

And at last the great room opens out. 
It is not a control room, only the pipes 
and cables there in the heat. But there is a 
staircase-metal, like a fire escape-going 
up to a door. Is this really the Power 
Plant? The door is cool, it must be. (Remembering the open portals, the sandstone lions, the courtyard and the generators inside on your devious way to the 
gym.) 

So open it. 

Damn, an ALARM! 

So walk out casually, just Yalies, right? 
Curious, right? The bell is loud. The lights 
are greenish-yellow. Offices, cubicles. 
Charts. A man in a sport shirt walking fast 
to where we are. OK, smile. "Follow me," 
he says, "I've got to call this in." Follow 
him, docile, looking around. "Yeah." 

He goes into a little office. Must be a 
complicated alarm. Probably goes off in 
Phelps Gate. Take a curious walk to see 
the generators. The courtyard. The big 
open doors. Run like hell, over the bars. 
Into the courtyard. The gate. Where the 
hell is the gate! It is cold as hell. Look 
back, see him walking fast past the 
generators. 

Over the fence. A Yale fence, wrought 
iron. Up. Do not slip. Do not slip. 
Jump. 

And run like hell towards Morse; you 
hear another thud, look back; it's Charlie, 
run like hell; don't look back, feel suddenly 
cold and naked on your left leg but run up 
the passage stairs, down the passage stairs 
between the Colleges three at a time, to the 
Tower, up the stairs; don't wait for the 
elevator. Twelfth Floor, stop. Knock. 
Sheldon? Let us in? Safe. Quite safe. And 
tell the story .... 

And Tuesday to walk to the gym, 
curious, to see half a trouser hanging 
from the fence. Quite safe. •


**Is the Novel Dying?**
**Author: Henri Peyre**
**Page number(s): 6**

61 The New Journal! February 8, 1970 

Of course it is. Aren't we all? Poets have 
been rash enough at times to repeat the 
idle boast of Horace (himself now hardly 
ever read) that they were erecting a monument more enduring than brass. Novelists 
never have displayed such conceit. The 
worm was in their juicy fruit as soon as it 
ripened; or perhaps rottenness set in even 
before the novel reached its "age of 
wisdom," before Flaubert, Thackeray and 
Henry James. A hundred years ago, or a 
little more, the novelist became aware of 
some of the potentialities of fiction as an 
art form rivalling and succeeding the epic 
and tragedy, having a structure, and 
adopting one or several points of view; 
Criticism of the novel and ever more 
subtle disquisitions on how a story should 
be told, how time might be manipulated, 
how characters could weather the passing 
of years or how they could even be dispensed with, grew so rife that readers who 
naively enjoyed being moved by a powerful novel developed the pangs of a bad 
conscience. How remote we are today, 
and even Flaubert was, from a novelist 
probably superior to him, because more 
natural and less tensely painstaking: 
Stendhal! The latter, after reading the 
famous article in which Balzac had praised 
La Chartreuse de Parme, published in 
1839, naively wrote to Balzac: "It had not 
occurred to me that there could be rules. 
... I had not thought about the art of 
making a novel. ... Following a plan 
refrigerates me." A score of years later, 
Sainte-Beuve answered a novelist, Champfleury (the one who first brandished the 
banner of realism), who had invited him 
to collaborate on a periodical devoted to 
fiction. "The novel is a vast experimentation ground, opening up to all the forms 
of genius. It is the epic of the future, the 
only one which modern manners probably 
allow. But let us not shrink it. Let us not 
theorize too much about it. Let us not 
organize it. ... All expositions and apologies should never cost us one good novel 
which the novelist might be composing 
instead of disserting!" 

If the novel were dying today in the 
Western world, it would be primarily due 
to the inordinate number of disquisitions 
on and around it. These are done with rare 
subtlety by professors who are a hundred 
times more clever at analyzing, dissecting, 
elaborating and formulating their rules 
and their exclusions than mute inglorious 
creators ever were. They have confidently 
asserted that no self-respecting author 
could, these days, tell a story as Tolstoy 
or Stendhal once did, claim to omniscience 
like Balzac or Mauriac, go unashamedly 
to the tragedy of today (in Napoleon's 
phrase), that is, to politics, as Malraux had 
dared do. Their self-assurance has unfortunately impressed a number of novelists; 
not so much in America or in England, 
where creative writers seldom read or 
heed what professors legislate, as in 
France, where much novel writing nowadays is addressed not to the reading 
public, but to the critics who dissert with 
profundity in esoteric magazines and who 
sit on the committees which award the 
coveted prizes. Any literature is in a sorry 
plight if it is composed with a view to 
disarming the objections or to currying the 
favors of a certain critical sect. 

Professors denounced the critical conditions of the novel many times and long 
before the nineteen sixties. There have 
indeed been ups and downs, and after the 
splendid flowering of fiction from 1810-
1880, the "fin de siecle" era was remarkable for its poetic achievement, with 
French and Russian Symbolism, but 
hardly for its novels. Convincing reasons 
were adduced to account for the death of 
the great tradition. The coarseness of the 
Naturalists had gone too far; social issues 
failed to interest a selfish society; psychology had become stale. Just when fiction 
was pronounced dead and buried, new 
novelists appeared on the scene who revived the art of the novel in several lands. 
Before and just after World War I, 
Thomas and Heinrich Mann, Hermann 
Hesse, Franz Kafka, D. H. Lawrence, 
Joyce and Virginia Woolf, belied all the 
sombre forecasts of critics. In France, 
Gide, Proust, Malraux, Giono, Julien 
Green, Celine, Mauriac and Bernanos 
turned the years 1910-1940 into a great 
age of fiction. 

Those giants were in their turn charged 
with having dug the grave of an art which 
had, with them, exhausted all its possibilities. Joyce, Hermann Broch, Faulkner and 
perhaps Proust himself, may perhaps have 
nurtured the dream of making the survival 
of fiction impossible after their own 
achievement. It is, after all, any creator's 
ambition to break and kill their tool, or 
the mold which they had elected to cast, 
so that their achievement may not be 
degraded by imitators or eclipsed by followers who might become rivals. They 
succeed in that monstrously egotistical attempt only in the sense that the truest disciples of Hugo or Mallarme, of Cezanne 
and of Joyce, have to disown their masters 
and strike independent paths of their own. 

Periodically, foes of the art of fiction arise 
who question the assumptions of novelists, 
pour scorn over the platitudinousness of 
their narratives of banal incidents, smile 
at their desperate endeavors to make us 
believe in their puppets and at the contrived pseudo-mysteries which they naively 
forge. 

Paul Valery, then the Surrealists, and 
many others in France-critics, publishers, 
even unsuccessful or retired novelists-
thus assaulted the novel as devoid of inner 
necessity and deprived of poetry. Such 
incessant heckling has proved healthy for 
French fiction. If it achieved little else, 
the novel certainly tried to renovate itself. 
Sartre, Camus and some of their friends 
in the years when Existentialism was the 
rage went to American fiction to find 
sources of renewal, thus moving away 
from Proustian introspection and from 
Mauriac's claim to godlike omniscience. 
Then, with the ingratitude of all intellectual borrowers, they discarded their 
American inspirers. Sartre acknowledged 
that he had proved too severe on Mauriac 
in his youthful polemical article and too 
lenient on Dos Passos' glaring artificiality. 
He reserved his bitterest animadversions 
for the patron saint of the younger novelists, Flaubert, chastizing himself in Flaubert for his own bourgeois features and 
his inveterate love for words. Like many 
men after their sixtieth year, he refused to 
see much validity in the ambitions of 
younger fanatics of the new novel who 
were taking him to task in the name of 
structuralism and of their theories on language. "I have always thought that the 
word was a way of possessing the thing," 
he declared in a dialogue published in 1965 
in the Revue d'Esthetique; "I refuse (the 
French word is stronger, "je repousse") 
structuralism inasmuch as it is behind me: 
I have nothing behind me." The determinism of the structure which constricts 
authors and characters (or mechanical actors) in the recent French novel is profoundly incompatible with the faith in 
freedom and in man's ability to create his 
own values which has always animated 
Sartre. A society may not, but a man may 
always break away from his structure and 
act in an unpredictable way. 

If the modern novel in France is today 
in danger of languishing, and is indeed 
finding few readers relative to the greater 
success of traditional novelists, of sociologists, of reporters and of philosophical 
popularizers, it is due to a number of 
factors, a few of which may be mentioned 
here. 

First to a failure of nerve in the novelist 
himself: to his lack of naivete and to his 
...


**The Death of the Novel?**
**Author: Unlisted**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
71 The New Journal! February 8, 1970 
conviction that he henceforth Jives in the 
"era of suspicion" announced by Stendhal: 
hence that there is no fundamental absurd-
ity in the world and in man's behavior, 
is dead and gone. It rested upon the dis-
carded assumption that the real is rational, 
hence that there is no fundamental ab-
surdity in the world and in man's behavior, 
that describing things as they appear to be 
endows them with a significance. It is by 
no means certain that a return to realism 
is out of the question in the fiction of 
tomorrow; indeed there are many inven-
tories of objects in the fiction of this very 
day and a lurking conviction that "les 
choses" and their obtruding omnipresence 
are displacing man from his erstwhile 
regal position as the ruler of this sublunar 
world. The regrettable feature of Robbe-
Grillet at his worst, of Pilhes and Pingel 
and other devotees of endless and repeti-
tious inventories is that their realism, un-
like that of Balzac and Zola, of H einrich 
Mann and even of Frank Norris, is not a 
visionary realism. It grants far too little 
to the eye which pierces through the be-
havior of people and the motionlessness of 
objects and which transfigures them. 

Second comes the glibly repeated asser-
tion that the novel, especially when it de-
picted the rise and fall of families, the 
conflict of father and son, and the in-
heritance and the dilapidation of estates, 
was bound up with the ascent of the 
bourgeoisie. Since the bourgeoisie is now 
in its demise or already dead, the syllogism 
goes, the novel is likewise dying. Nothing 
could be more ridiculous than the ease 
with which such a groundless piece of 
reasoning seems to be accepted by writers 
on fiction, old and young. For the bour-
geoisie rose long before the novel came 
into prominence: to it were also addressed 
the Roman de Renart, The Canterbury 
Tales, Moliere's comedies, indeed the 
tragedies of Racine and the Miltonic epic. 
The industrial revolution and the French 
Revolution established the bourgeoisie 
more firmly in its moneyed interests, in its 
power and in its self-contentment. If 
YES! 
novelists wrote for that class, they did it in 
a strange way, exposing its selfishness, its 
lack of charity, its greed, its secret corrup-
tion. Balzac, Stendhal, Flaubert, Zola and 
other novelists elsewhere acted as the de-
termined grave diggers of the very group 
from which they stemmed, and the more 
fiercely assailed the bourgeois was, the 
more willingly he bought and often sub-
sidized those novels. He was either in-
credibly naive, or incurably masochistic, 
or uncannily perfidious in realizing that 
attacks and caricatures by Daumier and 
Flaubert acted as a healthy safety valve 
and left him all the freer to fleece the poor 
classes and to fatten himself on the favor-
ite pastimes of the bourgeois: gastromony 
and extra-marital love. 

Sociologists notwithstanding, things 
have not changed. It will be recognized 
some day that the years of triumph of the 
bourgeoisie were not 1840 or 1860, but 
1920-1970. And no decline is in sight. 
The aristocrats, who had long since ceased 
to count, have been absorbed by the 
middle class. The workmen and the farm-
ers are so "em bourgeoises" that one has 
to go to underprivileged lands of Africa 
or South America today to meet the true 
proletarians. Intellectuals, novelists, com-
posers, painters all stem from the bour-
geois class or migrate into it. Security, 
intellectual comfort, the enjoyment of 
leisure, the ambition to leave one's chil-
dren better educated and richer than their 
parents were, the urge to invest and gamble 
on the stock market: all these characteris-
tics of the bourgeois have spread to the 
whole society today in the Western world. 
It is because the bourgeoisie is so universal 
and so powerfuJiy entrenched that it is, in 
words at least, derided and indicted by 
writers and by the new romantic idealists 
of the modem world, the hippies. If the 
art of fiction flourishes when a certain 
stability prevails in society and when the 
novelist feels attuned to his milieu, one 
wonders why it did with Defoe or Balzac 
or Dickens or Dostoevsky. 

World War 11 has left deep scars on


**History Is Going To Change, Say the Patriots, and They Aim to Help It.**
**Author: George Kannar**
**Page number(s): 9**

91 The New Journal I February 8, 1970 
HISTORY IS GOING TO CHANGE, 
SAY THE PATRIOTS, AND THEY 
AIM TO HELP IT. 
by George Kannar 
She's a pretty girl, Annie is, as she 
passes by on her way to answer the 
phone. She leans across the desk, lifts 
the receiver, says in a sweet business-
like voice "All power to the people," 
then she giggles for a second, pauses, 
and completes the phrase, " Patriot 
Party, can I help you?" 

Meanwhile out in the kitchen, a few 
members of the party sit around over 
mugs of coffee discussing the revolu-
tion's fortunes, which they feel are not 
as good as they might be. They talk 
about the situation in Norwalk High 
School, the Chicago murder of Fred 
Hampton, and the New Haven murder 
conspiracy trial of Black Panther Party 
Chairman Bobby Seale which will get 
underway any day now. 

But all this is small talk. They've all 
been over this before, and it isn't the 
reason they've come. The real reason Is 
that the Patriot Party's national chair-
man is in town to give the New Haven 
branch a little publicity and a morale 
boost as it gets started. Their hope is to 
assume a position in the poor white 
community something like that which 
the Panthers are try to achieve in the 
black community. Right now the Pa-
triots think the best way to win com-
munity support is to "meet the basic 
needs of the people" by providing what-
ever "the people" want, including such 
programs as free breakfast for two 
dozen children in Fair Haven, conven-
ient medical assistance and cheap 
firewood. 

The national chairman, Bill Fesper-
man, known as the Preacherman, has 
been with the Patriot Party since its 
formation about ayear ago, when a 
group of hillbilly radicals from. the Up-
town section of Chicago broke off from 
a local organization called the Young 
Patriots and decided to go national. 
The idea was to set up a national party 
among working class whites to over-
come racism and to make the revolu-
tion. The Patriot platform is practically 
indistinguishable from the Panther pro-
gram, as are its internal rules and reg-
ulations. From the Patriot collective in 
Fair Haven to the New Haven Panther 
headquarters a regular communica-
tions line is kept open; people shuttle 
back and forth all the time. In front of 
Liggett's the Patriot girls, like Annie, 
sell the Panther newspaper to arouse 
some interest in and to generate some 
financial support for the mutual cause. 

The Panthers are generous in the sup-
port they have given the Patriots, rang-
ing from the joint rally in the Yale Law 
School auditorium on January 16th 
to the constant availability of the official 
Panther photographer for Patriot pur-
poses. According to the Panthers, the 
Patriots, unlike student revolutionaries, 
"understand revolutionary discipline 
and get away from the Cultural revolu-
tion shit. We're coming from the same 
trip." 

Preacherman sits in the corner of the 
kitchen watching the local party mem-
bers go about their tasks while playing 
with two little mullato kids, both of 
whom are wearing buttons with hori-
zontal stripes of brown, white, red, 
black and yellow. "They represent the 
Rainbow Coalition," Preacherman says, 
and he tells of the informal working al-
liance between the Panthers, the Patri-
ots and the Puerto Rican Young Lords. 

Preacherman himself makes sure the 
revolution doesn't lose its sense of 
humor. His artificial revolutionary af-
fections are few. Fesperman talks sense 
to his followers with an intelligence and 
wit which frequently leaves others be-
hind. He is a genial, serious-minded 
Abbie Hoffman-serious but always on 
the lookout for a put-on. While the 
Panthers are talking about killing 
Richard Nixon, Fesperman says he'd 
rather put the President to work re-
painting the White House in the colors 
of the Rainbow Coalition button, mak-
ing it a striped Executive mansion. He's 
happy, confident and optimistic, and he 
seems quite content to be making the 
revolution in America. 

" I really love this country, man. I love 
its rivers; I love its mountains; I love 
its ocean coasts. Some people say it's 
lousy; they say they want to get out of 
here, but I don't. I just want to change it 
and make it better." 

The Patriot Party philosophy, as Fes-
perman explains, is a variation of Marx-
ism. It's a lot like the Panther theory but 
the emphasis on racism is less. Most of 
the time the Patriots have to fight the 
charge that they themselves are pre-
judiced, or at least that the people they 
are working with, lhe poor and working 
class whites, are the most prejudiced 
segment of the United States. 

" Well, you know, when we got started 
in Uptown they told us we were racist. 
Well, we checked it out, and we found 
ount that they were racist; only they 
were racist on a higher level. You're 
racist at a high level if you're racist and 
you don't lay it down on the line. What 
you have to do is look at the class anal-
ysis, you have to check out people by 
their social practice. That's the way we 
do it. You have to check out whether 
or not a man's social practice is racist 
before you call him a racist. 

"You know, you always hear that all 
the horrible racist oppressors are in the 
South. Well, that's not so. The Rocke-
fellers don't live in the South; the 
Kennedys don't live there." 



**Title: The New Haven Patriots**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
10 I The New Journal I February 8, 1970 
Now Preacherman gets up to stretch 
his legs a bit, and as he struts around 
the kitchen he looks a little more like the 
North Carolina hillbilly he claims to be. 
And even though he doesn't speak with 
the bitterness of the Panthers he still 
has some of the regalia of the upcoming 
revolutionist. For one thing, he cannot 
be separated from his blue sunglasses. 
Indoor, outdoor, rain, or shine, he wears 
them. He has cowboy boots too, with 
moderately high heels, and they stick 
out from under his light blue work pants 
as he strolls across the floor. 
Other expressions of current revolu-
tionary fashion are acknowledged by 
Preacherman. Not even he could hold 
up his head in revolutionary circles if 
he were without his black vinyl jacket. 
Practically every respectable revolu-
tionary has a black vinyl jacket. 
Preacherman's jacket is hip length, 
and it has buttons, much like the ones 
worn by the Panthers. 

Tom Oostou, another Patriot who, 
among other things, acts as a sort of 
boyguard for Preacherman, stands near 
him in a doorway wearing his own black 
vinyl jacket. Dostou had a personal run-
in with the law a couple of weeks ago, 
just after the Patriots got started, and 
the Party claims Dostou is the victim of 
police harassment. He was picked up 
on charges of non-support of his wife 
in front of his house on the evening of 
January 21st by detectives of the New 
Haven Police Department and was 
turned over to the state police, who 
charged him with illegal possession of 
controlled drugs and, without making 
any specific charges, vaguely asso-
ciated him in a press release with the 
murder of a UConn coed last Novem-
ber. The Patriots say the charge of non-
support is false, and they claim they 
cannot even find out who filed the com-
plaint. They claim Dostou's wife, the 
Child Welfare Bureau and the Family 
Assistance Bureau all deny it. In addi-
tion they say the "controlled drugs" 
found on Dostou were actually prenatal 
pills for his obviously pregnant wife. 

Then Larry Moore, the New Haven 
chapter head enters in his jacket; only 
his is shorter, and it has a big steel 
zipper instead of buttons. It is a lot like 
the motorcycle jackets white working 
class boys wear around the local drive-
in hamburger stands on Saturday 
nights. Larry himself is of the working 
class. He went to the University of 
Oregon in Eugene for a while and 
dropped out to work with the Patriots 
when they set up a chapter here. Fes-
perman says Larry was such a good or-
ganizer that the national headquarters 
in the Yorkville district of Manhattan 
picked him up and brought him back 
East. About a month ago, he was sent to 
New Haven to set up a branch and be-
come its head, known as the " New 
Haven defense captain" with-in Patriot 
circles. 

According to Preacherman, most of 
the Patriots came into the Party like 
Larry Moore did, with no other back-
ground in radical activity. He says they 
come because they see that the Patriot 
way is the only realistic approach to 
problems of social oppression. 
"Sure, we support any party or or-
ganization which serves the needs of 
the people, but most people in the Pa-
triot Party have not been in the old 
movement-no peace work, or draft 
resistance, or civil rights, or SDS. We've 
had some of that too; we've even had 
requests from whole chapters of the 
SDS to join the Patriot Party. But most 
people just come in off the street and 
get to work. 

"We have some problems, too, having 
all these different people around. These 
intellectuals come in, and they have all 
the solutions. Well, they want to look 
at the psychological side of everything. 
They have to be remolded. And we get 
street people too who come in and are 
all for running out and blowing up 
police stations, and they have to be 
remolded too. You can't make a revolu-
tion with just a mind or just a body. 
You have to have both a mind and a 
body in the revolution to make it." 

" In the meantime, though, we're go-
ing to support some of those upperclass 
organizations too, like the peace move-
ment, as long as they see that the basic 
needs of the people have to be met. But 
we're not issue-oriented ourselves; we 
have a revolutionary program." 

Moore takes off his coat, and every-
one leaves the kitchen and goes into 
the front office, which probably was a 
living room back when the headquart-
• ers was just another rundown duplex. 
Not that it is any less rundown these 
days, but now it is the home of most of 
the New Haven Patriot Party. The col-
lective, as they call the group, exists 
for reasons of theory and of everyday 
convenience. It provides an opportun-
ity for the Patriots to be full-time revol-
utionaries, and it gives them a chance 
to try out primitive socialism before 
the big revolution comes along. 

At meetings of the collective theoreti-
cal and practical problems are thrashed 
out in criticism and self-criticism ses-
sions. According to Moore, it is at the 
collective T-groups that matters such 
as the issue of women's liberation are 
fitted into the party's Marxist class 
analysis. 

The Patriots do not have much use 
for student revolutionaries in their 
movement, and no place at all for them 
in their collective. The students may 
think they are working for the same 
thing, but Fesperman says they have 
yet to show they really mean it. He has a 
bemused contempt for the students who 
agitate for revolution. The Patriots 
think the Weatherman are downright 
funny, or would be if they were not do-
ing the name of the revolution so much 
harm. 

For the Patriots being a revolutionary 
means being a revolutionary all the time 
and never being anything else. A stu-
dent, they say, cannot by definition be a 
revolutionary. One must either be a 
student or a revolutionary. Among the 
New Haven Patriots is a former Yale 
student who joined the Party, but he is 
a rarity. The Patriots have low regard 
for New Haven's leading educational 
institution ("a big sick hunk of brain") 
and its students ("if you students let 
Chairman Bobby die in the murder trial, 
you're all punks and we're going to beat 
the shit out of you" ). According to the 
Patriots' formal position as stated by 
Fesperman, the idea of a student revol-
utionary can never work. He is from the 
wrong social class, and he does not un-
derstand "proletariat thinking." 

" Proletariat thinking is working 
twenty-four hours a day on meeting the 
needs of the people." according to Fes-
perman. " That's why the people here 
live together; they can be·here and 
share things, and devote their whole 
lives all day and all night to meeting the 
needs of the people. If they need money 
to live they can get jobs for a while, or 
they can hustle money from liberals 
like I did myself after I went up to Up-
town in Chicago from North Carolina. 

" Hey, you know what Uptown is like? 
Did you see Haskell Wexler's Medium 
Cool? That place where that cute hill-
billy gal lived is Uptown, and you can 
bet that that poor little kid in the movie 
is still living there," and he talks some 
more about life in Uptown, deliberately 
trying to skip over mentioning that be-
fore he went to Uptown, he attended the 
University of North Carolina " for a 
while." He tries to avoid mentioning 
such things, to avoid letting himself 
look as smart as he may actually be, to 
make sure he really does sound like and 
talk like a typical working class man. 
Sometimes he slips and makes a knowl-
edgeable reference to a movie or a 
book that a typical " dumb hillbilly" 
wouldn't. But most of the time Preacher-
man pulls off the "dumb" stance pretty 
well. 

While Preacherman is talking and 
drinking his coffee on a chair by the 
front window, Annie sits behind the 
desk, still answering the phone and 
listening as different Patriots file in and 
out. Behind Annie on the wall is a huge 
Confederate flag. She is wearing a 
button which says "Resurrect John 
Brown." Preacherman performs some 
strenuous logical acrobatics to explain 
the connection. 

" See, the way we figure it, John 
Brown was doing the right thing, only 
he was doing it for the wrong reason. 
He was doing it for religion, and he 
should have been doing it to meet the 
basic needs of the people. Now if he 
had gotten together with Nat Turner, 
then nothing would have stopped 
them .... 

"The flag? Well, you see, the reason 
for the flag is that it represents the 
South. The South is going to be where 
the revolution comes from. The South 
will rise again, only it will be different 
this time. C. Vann Woodward and 
Robert Penn Warren live around here, 
don't they? C. Vann Woodward writes 
all that stuff about the burden of South-
ern history. Well, somebody ought to 
tell that history teacher that the South's 
going to rise again. 


111 The New Journal I February 8, 1970 
" The poor Southerners have seen 
everything. They don't even know what 
racism is because the poor people-all 
poor people-practice primitive social-
ism. Call it Christian brotherhood or 
whatever you like, but it's really social-
ism. And maybe it's because Souther-
ners have seen all these things that 
we're going to be the first to say, 'That's 
going far enough!' 

"You see, I know the South. I know it 
scares some people when they see a 
film like Easy Rider. The bad South. But 
those are mostly petty bourgeois people 
-the ones who scare and the one who 
gets scared. Hell, those guys are the 
capitalists. 

"We Southerners, we grow up think-
ing we're inferior. We always feel we 
have to prove ourselves. We could beat 
people up, but that doesn't prove we're 
not inferior. We've got to prove we're 
smarter too. And maybe because we've 
seen what we have, we'll be the first to 
end this system." 

Then he talks for a while about the 
specific plans he has for setting up 
Patriot Party branches In the South. 
He calls the whole effort an "educa-
tional" one, to change people's minds 
by changing their social situation 
through concrete action. 

"We're in this class struggle. There 
are lots of oppressed people, and his-
tory's going to change. Capitalism isn't 
that bad, you know; at least it's better 
than feudalism and whatever went be-
fore it. History's going to change, and 
we're here to help it. People have to 
be remolded. 

"We're following In the steps of our 
American forefathers. You know, 
George Washington and Thomas Jeffer-
son and all. They say all men are equal, 
and then they practice slavery. Well, 
we're going to change that. We're going 
to make the country follow what the 
Constitution is supposed to mean; we 
want to put the country back together 
again. 

"We know we can't make a conclu-
sion for history. But we do think we see 
in the Rainbow Coalition the beginnings 
of a national liberation struggle in this 
country." 

He is really preaching now, and no 
one else in the collective can get a word 
in. But then he realizes what he is do-
ing and stops. He leans against the 
bookshelf and starts talking with Annie 
in a more conversational tone of voice. •


**Title: Dick Cavett is a Yalie**
**Author: Martha Gershun**
**Page number(s): 13-14**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Dick Cavett is a Yalie. 
by Martha Gershun 
At the Yale Club in New York everyone 
gathers 'round the television screen these 
days to wave their handkerchiefs when, at 
one in the morning, the strains of "John's· 
Walts" mark the end of "The Dick Cavett 
Show." For Dick Cavett is one of them, a 
graduate of Yale College-dass of 1958. 
And more importantly, he is successful 
one. 

Yet there are paradoxes in Dick Cavett's 
success. His hours on the home screen-
where time is money is no metaphor-have 
been spent in conversation with Allen 
Ginsberg, Ralph Nader, Paul Weiss, public 
figures and personalities whose intelligence 
had remained hidden from the viewing 
public whether or not they had ever been · 
seen on television. 

Cavett's first two ABC network talk 
shows ("This Morhing," seen daily from 
March 1968 to January 1969, and "The 
Dick Cavett Show," generally seen three 
times at week at 10 P.M.last summer) re-
ceived a variety of accolades that only tele-
vision could inspire and endure: too good, 
too intelligent to last, a noble experiment. 
Noble experiment is television critics' talk 
for we know it's a wonderful show, but 
poor in the ratings and bound to be can-
celled. Cavett's prime time nobility evoked 
not only critical favor but steadily (if 
slowly) climbing ratings during his summer 
joust. 

The ratings, however, didn't save the 
show, and among its September replace-
ments was "Jimmy Durante presents The 
Lennon Sisters." Cavett's reprieve came in 
late November when ABC hired him for its 
late-night talk show. ABC was worried by 
Joey Bishop's low ratings, so the network 
forced his swift retirement. Cavett's resur-
rection was well deserved, but television 
traditionally saves its best for a special 
kind of sacrifice; one recalls the period in 
the late fifties when the networks were 
crying "I love you but you're too good 
for me" to their own Playhouse 90 and 
Armstrong Circle Theatre. 

The switch from television's Siberian 
summertime to the big time in the nightly 
talk show was as ragged as it was quick. 
Cavett's first shows were technically flawed 
by awkward moments of suspension as 
cameras cut to and from commercials. Yet 
the content of the show rapidly took a 
pleasant texture, if a sometimes forced 
one. To an extent the program developed 
a liturgy. Each guest seemed to praise 
Cavett, applaud the real honest-to-god-
we've-finally-escaped-mediocrity quality of 
the show, and swore they watched it every 
night, before the communion would begin. 

And for all the frenzied hyperbole, the 
element of truth was there in those pro-
nouncements. So little Dickie Cavett is 
arrived. 

Yet, for all of the novelty the show has 
brought to television's entertainingly mind-
less talk shows, Cavett the man is in some 
ways a little less novel. He's like many who 
come more quickly to mind these days, a 
man of the fifties. Yale 1958: a year not 
often cited for stimulating events, dynamic 
style, or very much of anything, in New 
Haven or elsewhere. Cavett too is low key. 
He's on but he doesn't glitter. He's funny 
but the laugh is in the eyes. He's built solid 
and small at the same time, so the impres-
sion comes in one look. He admires Jack 
Paar, Stan Laurel and Groucho Marx, 
Mar'tha Gershun is a free lance writer 
based in New York where she has written 
for The Village Voice. This is her first ap-
pearance in The New Journal. 
whom he originally worshipped back in 
Nebraska as emcee of "You Bet Your 
Life," the quintessentially innocent TV 
quiz show that rewarded contestants with 
a flying duck and twenty-five dollars if 
they said "stove" or "motor," the evening's · 
secret word. 

Cavett remembers Yale as being peace-
ful, except for the beginning of the ice 
cream riot. "There was rivalry," he recalls, 
"between a Good Humor man and some-
one else on the post office corner, and stu-
dents took sides. But actually that was 
before I went to Yale." 

"I remember Adlai Stevenson being 
booed as he came up to speak. He was in 
a motorcade; there was terrific booing, 
and I remember not knowing what the 
issues were." 

But in the Yale of the fifties, when train-
loads of seniors left after graduation for 
Wall Street, there was a bit of the unusual 
surrounding Cavett. For he was the only 
senior in the 1958 Class B.ook who desig-
nated his future occupation as the "enter-
tainment business." 

Although he worked as a copy boy for 
Time after leaving Yale, Cavett's ambi-
tions were still directed towards the "en-
tertainment business," directed strongly 
enough to land him a job on Jack Paar's 
writing staff after he simply approached 
Paar with a freshly typed monologue. 

Cavett later tried out a stand-up comedy 
routine in nightclubs such as New York's 
Bitter End and the hungry i in San Fran-
cisco. He was not an immediate success, 
and he's still not enthusiastic about club 
dates. "When you're actually up doing it 
it isn't bad. It's finishing one that went well 
and thinking I've got to do another later 
so I haven't gained anything. If I were told 
by an evil fairy that I would never go back 
into clubs I would not be unhapy about it." 

"It was pleasanter when I was in Chicago 
because I know some people there. I've 
stayed at Hefner's house, which is a funny 
experience. He's up in the middle of the 
night. He wants to play-I think it's called 
Risk-that game where you dominate areas 
of the world on a board. I introduced word 
games into the Hefner house. That irri-
tated him because all the bunnies were 
going around playing Perquacky ... I was 
the insidious word game influence. I un-
derstand it's died out. It took it about a 
year and a half." 

What "entertainment business" eventual-
ly came to mean was television, or, rather, 
seven and a half hours a week of public 
conversation about the urban crisis, Las 
Vegas, French cooking and Southeast 
Asia. He plays an excellent host. He's 
more sustained than Steve Allen, less 
threatening than Jack Paar, not nearly as 
innocuous as Merv Griffin, nor as slick as 
Johnny Carson. Cavett's guests talk for ten 
minutes or more without a commercial 
interruption, or a joke. 

Unfortunately, there is the occassional 
tendency to facile balancings of the guest 
list: hence Senators Goodell and Tower 
come as a team. Yet, this is partially com-
pensated for when, in his more brilliant 
moments, Cavatt manages to manoeuver 
seemingly unbalancable guests into vigor-
ous discussions. Recently, he led Margaret 
Mead and Ann Corio, the queen of old 
time burlesque, into an amusingly reveal-
ing dialogue on sex and morals. There was 
Margaret Mead, the dumpy, scholarly 
spinster, advocating sexual and moral lib-
eration while Ann Corio, the liberated 
stripper, vehemently came back arguing 
for conservatism and restraint. 

On another evening his guests included 
Johnny Mathis and Democratic Senator 
Gale McGee of Wyoming, who was there 
to respond to Wayne Morse's strong re-
marks made on a previous Dick Cavett 
show against the Vietnam war. Backstage 
ten mjnutes before the taping was sched-
uled to begin Johnny Mathis was hurrying 
around half naked in sneakers and white 
ducks. A tall, dark wavy-haired man in a 
black suit, Gale McGee, arrived with his 
twelve year old daughter and was directed 
to a secluded chamber. On the stage a 
young woman sat staring under bright 
lights into a TV camera. She said she was 
the "color girl", and as a visitor asked her 
the qualifications for the job a man in grey 
sharkskin gestured feverishly at her side. 
Several tall men with sunglasses and silk 
collars and breast pockets strolled easily 
from camera to control booth as the an-
nouncer began to "warm up" the audience. 
The announcer's name is Fred Foy, and 
he is familiar to many as the voice that 
used to roll out a mighty "Heigh Ho 
Silver!" during the golden '40s. He warms 
the audience with the same patter every 
night the show is taped: a laugh about the 
distant balcony, a mjld insult for the band-
leader, a reminder about the importance of 
the studio applause signs. 

Behind him Dick Cavett is just arriving 
backstage. In mustard slacks and a green 
cap. After he has checked with his secre-
tary to see that the guests have arrived he 
retires upstairs to his dressing room to go 
over the opening monologue with his 
writers. The tight, brassy little ABC or-
chestra strikes up the lively introduction 
theme. Cavett strides out smiling, this time 
in grey slacks, and jokes for ten minutes. 
During the commercials Cavett.talks on 
his desk telephone and exchanges nods 
and smiles with his writers, who are now 
in the first row of the audience. As the 
camera moves in for the return close-up 
he looks up and waits. 

Johnny Mathis sings two songs. Senator 
McGee, his lefi foot trembling, talks for 
some time about Vietnam and answers 
Cavett's questions about the Tonkin Gulf 
resolution. When the band begins to play 
the theme for the final roll of credits, and 
the stage manager signals that the show is 
over, Senator McGee takes a piece of 
paper from his pocket. He wants the auto-
graphs of Johnny Mathis and Dick Cavett 
for his daughter. Cavett can excuse the 
Senator's lapse for he himself has hustled 
mementos of the great, even of his idol 
Groucho Marx. 

Cavett met Groucho at GeorgeS. Kauf-
man's funeral. "I just decided to walk over 
to where the funeral was. Beautiful day. 
I went in, and there was Groucho across 
from me, which gave me a great thrill. 
I never expected that he actually existed. 
All the big people associated with the 
Roundtable were there; it was a nostalgist's 
paradise. Groucho sort of split off from 
them. I thought I would accost him and 
I did, corner of 81st and Fifth. I worked 
for Paar at the time so I said I'm in the 
business. He said 'you want to walk a 
ways'-he loves to walk-so we walked all 
the way down to the Plaza.". 

"Then we got to the Plaza and he said, 
'Well you're a nice young man and I'd like 
to take you to lunch.' Since then I kept 
up the friendship. I still can·t believe it.'' •


**Title: Letters: What should medical education be?**
**Author: Florence S. Wald, Jonathan H. Pincus, M.D., Stephen Fleck, M.D.**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

Letters: What should medical 
education be? 
Following are three of the many letters 
received in response to the cover story 
"Yale Med: How Long on Top of the 
HilJ?" which appeared in the November 
23, 1969 issue of The New Journal. A 
reply by author Jim Ross follows the 
letters. 

To the Editors: 
The article "Yale Med: How Long on 
Top of the HilJ?" by J im Ross in the Nov-
ember 23 issue of the New Journal has 
brought to light a few essential questions 
which face Yale University in the teach-
ing, research and practice of its health 
professionals. 

It delighted me that Mr. Ross began the 
article by describing the contribution of a 
medical student, Mr. Barry Rand, when 
he spoke at the American Association of 
Medical Colleges. Many of us admire the 
courage and capability of Mr. Rand (as 
well as other students such as Bruce Bloch, 
Mary C h arlson, Richard Katzman, Jane 
Silver and Peter Orris) to examine, under-
stand and search for solutions to problems 
in our health-care institutions. They de-
serve great credit for their contribution. 

Mr. Ross makes clear that Yale must 
ask, "Are our doctors educated to meet 
the needs of their clients?" The question 
must also be asked with respect to the 
lawyers, architects, nurses and clergy Yale 
educates. Society in general and the New 
Haven Community in particular are saying 
clearly and loudly that their needs are not 
being met. Many of us in the Yale-New 
Haven Medical Center who have heard 
community residents such as Margaret 
Leslie, Rose Harris and Ronald Johnson 
speak, recognize that we must be willing 
to take their observations into account. It 
was unfortunate that Mr. Ross wrote about 
the controversy between the Connecticut 
Mental H ealth Center and the community 
as if it arose from a personal difference 
between the principles involved. The real 
issue is the ideological difference in defin-
ing mental illness and prescribing therapy. 
Those who adhere to psychoanalytic 
theory a nd practice do not understand the 
efforts of those who help by changing the 
environment as well as or in addition to 
changing the patients psyche. 

Just as important as redefining mental 
illness and assessing psychiatric therapy, 
all the health professionals at Yale Univer-
sity would do a great service if they re-
defined illness in general. Ray Duff and 
August Hollingshead have suggested just 
that, and also implied that we understand 
the circumstances which cause people to 
come to ask for medical help-and what 
treatments are helpful. 

Perhaps Mr. Ross's article will be the 
catalyst to stimulate Yale and its profes-
sional schools to redefine its goals, revamp 
its education and research and its rei a- · 
tionship with the community. Then Yale 
could indeed be a model for other univer-
sities to emulate. 
Florence S. Wald 
Research Associate and former Dean, 
School of Nursing 

I applaud the concern of Jim Ross for the 
residents of the Hill, a concern shared by 
so many of his schoolmates. This is a wel-
come change from my college days in the 
McCarthy era when any social criticism 
was discouraged and critics sociaJiy 
isolated. I am not prepared to agree with 
his point of view which, though well inten-
tioned, is anti-intellectual and destructive. 
First of all, poverty is not a medical 
illness, nor is juvenile delinquency nor 
adult crime nor racism nor riots. Phy-
sicians are not trained to deal with these 
problems, nor are they capable of handling 
them without compromising everything 
else they must accomplish. Alcoholism and 
other addictions, though called "diseases," 
are not diseases in the same sense as dia-
betes or meningitis .... Lead poisoning 
occurs in the setting of poverty. It is really 
caused by social factors which involve 
cupidity, landlords, tenants, ignorance, 
neglect of children, and emotional distur-
bances which give rise to pica. Physicians 
can treat lead poisoning but have done 
little to prevent it. The main questions are: 
Should physicians take on immense social 
problems as subjects which are properly 
included among their professional duties 
as practitioners of good medicine? and, if 
so, how should they go about it? 

I think that physicians have the obliga-
tion to usc their professional authority 
individually and in groups to bring pres-
sure to bear upon the political structure 
to provide a kind of intervention in press-
ing social issues which is truly the respon-
sibility only of government. Perhaps phy-
sicians have been remiss in this and have 
not done enough. However, social issues 
are not medicine, and to include them as 
part of the province of practitioners or 
even to devote to these problems a large 
section of time in the medical school cur-
riculum would be to dilute medical prac-
tice and knowledge with potentially 
catastrophic results. The art of medicine 
is so complex, knowledge so immense and 
yet so inadequate, the responsibility of the 
physician so vast and the need to act in 
an individual case so pressing that lives 
would be lost if the medical student and 
practitioner were also immersed in the 
great problems of society which have 
frustrated so many others who were better 
qualified to deal with them. 

The second point is that a great medical 
school must regard research and teaching 
as its primary goals. Community serv1ce 
is subsidiary to these. Lest I appear cold-
hearted and unpractical, let me give an 
example. It might have been possible for 
someone to argue 20 years ago that money 
spent on basic research in virology and 
immunology would be better spent on the 
victims of diseases such as polio. There-
habilitative measures such as the Sister 
Kenney treatment and bracing were suc-
cessful and available only to those who 
could pay for them. Here was social in-
justice! How could a medical school with 
any pretensions to excellence not try to 
provide rehabilitation to the entire im-
poverished community in which it was 
located, even at the expense of basic re-
search? Yet the development of techniques 
which have all but eradicated polio from 
the United States would have been impos-
sible without basic research performed at 
the expense of service. The practicality of 
basic research has been proven so many 
times over that further examples are un-
necessary but the appropriateness of its 
primacy at Yale does not depend on prac-
ticality. For Yale University is in the 
knowledge business and knowledge is 
austere. It is to be pursued for its own sake 
and not for the many dividends it bestows. 
Education and knowledge are the major 
concerns of Yale Nniversity; they are the 
whole purpose and justification for its 
existence. 

I do not mean to imply that service is 
unimportant, but if Yale does not, through 
its interest in teaching and research, pro-
vide adequate medical service to the com-
munity, the city has a responsibility to 
provide it. Not only has the city of New 
Haven not provided a city hospital or city 
clinics, but it has not paid the Yale-New 
Haven Hospital for a fraction of the costs 
of caring for welfare cases. The responsi-
bility for community health is, in the last 
analysis, the community's and not Yale's, 
and pressure to improve medical service 
should be applied not to President 
Brewster but to the elected officials of 
the government. 
Jonathan H. Pincus, M.D. 
Associate Professor, Neurology 

This letter is written to correct untruths in 
an article by Mr. Jim Ross, published in 
the New Journal on November 23rd, 
1969. 

I. It is not true that the Hill neighborhood 
and the ghetto provide most of the people 
the medical school "needs" as quoted with-
out correction. People need medical and 
health care, and the Medical Center pro-
vides most of the institution-based care for 
all of the neighborhoods of New H aven 
and the surrounding towns. Ecological 
data concerning patients and where "most" 
of them come from are easily available to 
anybody with a minimal degree of jour-
nalistic conscientiousness ..• 

2. Neither Dr. Max Pepper nor "Doctor" 
Fichtenbaum (what "doctor" is he?) re-
ceived a grant for anything. Federal grants 
for "Community Medicine," i.e., specifi-
cally the Hill Health Center, were pro-
cured through the efforts of Drs. D. Cook, 
R. Weincrman, M. Pepper and F. C. Red-
lich. Another grant was procured for the 
establishment of a catchment service, i.e., 
total mental health services to a defined 
area, the Hill Neighborhood and West 
Haven in this case, by Dr. F. C. Redlich, 
then Director of the Connecticut Mental 
Health Center. Dr. Max. Pepper was put in 
charge of this service and Mr. Fichten-
baum assigned as the chief social worker. 

3. This catchment area contained then 
72,000 people, presumably not every one 
of them a "potential patient." The staff 
of this service didn't "discover·· the condi-
tions listed; they were well known to exist 
became they are endemic throughout the 
nation. 

4. At no time was Dr. Max Pepper serving 
as Acting Director of the Connecticut 
Mental Health Center, and Dr. Redlich 
was not then "on vacation," out at an 
International meeting. He returned im-
mediately upon being advised of the riots 
in New Haven. So did Dr. Gerald Kler-
man, who had just been appointed Direc-
tor of the Center. In the meantime, Mr. 
John O'Connor and I were the senior 
members of the Department present and 
involved in, and responsible for the opera-
tions of the Department of Psychiatry of 
which the Center is a component. The 
second floor of the Center was not taken 
over by state troopers. 

5. Neither Dr. F. C. Redlich nor Dr. G 
Klerman ever "condemned" the Connecti-
cut Mental Health Center's action during 
or after the crisis. It is true that we-
psychiatrists included-proved to have no 
competence in the logistics of emergency 
evacuation of a neighborhood which we 
helped arrange. Later there was critical 
evaluation of our operation during the 
crisis by ourselves, and by staff not directly 
involved, as there should be. 

6. Dr. Pepper did not leave New Haven 
"shortly afterwards." He moved into the 
Dean's office as had been planned prior to 
the riots to work in community medicine 
and health projects commensurate with his 
interests-a distinct advancement over his 
previous assignment to a single Mental 
Health Service unit. ... 

7. There is no particular "research-service 
conflict" at the Connecticut Mental Health 
Center, and the operation which began 
under Dr. Pepper has continued to grow 
and develop including "effective exchange 
of ideas with its neighbors." 

8. Mr. Harris's appointment last spring re-
sulted from Dr. Kleeman's concern with 
the Center's insufficient involvement and 
communication with neighborhoods out-
side the H ill-West Haven area where we 
were making progress. 

9. Barry Rand and Mary Chadson are en-
titled to their opinions, but they should be 
identified as such. Miss Charlson, how-
ever, may need the services of an opthal-
mologist. If Mr. Rand "committed a nine-
teen-year-old mother with two young 
children to the state mental institution" 
he acted illegally, as only a physician can 
legally do this. Incidentally, the CMHC is 
a "State Mental institution." 

I 0. Beds for detoxification at the CMHC 
have not been "denied," although the num-
ber alotted is inadequate, but so are the 
number of beds for all other psychiatric 
conditions if they were all to be taken care 
of by the 67-bed CMHC. It was never 
designed to take care of "all" problems of 
any type. 

I I. The Yale New Haven Medical Center 
is participating in the treatment of lead 
poisoning and always has. Prevention of 
this condition requires community action 
and health education. to which Yale is also 
contributing specificaly through Dr. L. 
Levin, who is in charge of Health Educa-
tion programs in the Department of Epi-
demiology and Public Health. 

12. Mr. Ross could easily have informed 
himself of these matters. He, furthermore, 
failed to inform himself of the complex-
ities of the issues involved and prefers to 
see "gulf factions .. and the like instead of 
appreciating that many people in the medi-
cal school are concerned and involved with 
improving health services, and in estab-
lishing community-university partnerships 
in these programs. Many of us have 
worked in this direction for many years-
long before the CMHC opened its doors, 
but its doors were opened because of the 
vision of such a community oriented men-
tal health service by local pioneers in 
social psychiatry: Drs. Redlich, J . V. 
Coleman, M. Senn and A. Sol nit, the late 
B. Roberts, and Professors Hollingshead 
and J . Myers, and by Professors l. S. Falk 
and R. Weinerman in social medicine. 
Stephen Fleck, M.D. 
Professor of Psychiatry 

The awhor replies: 
Two of the above letters challenge my 
New Journal article as "untrue" and "anti-
intellectual and destructive:· 1 think these 
accusations ignore two significant limita-
tions which I faced as a journalist in writ-
ing the article. First, my views on the sub-


**Title: The Yale School of Drama Announces HAROLD LLOYD COMES TO YALE**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 15**

**Title: What ho!**
**Author: david dean smith**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
What ho! 
A medium priced amplifier 
that really sounds fine 
Medium priced amplifiers have always been a problem. 
Most of them boast in large advertisements huge numbers of 
"watts", but few actually produce any quantity of clean 
undistorted power. Those that produced power often had an 
over-bright transistor sound. What could we recommend? 
Nothing. Until Pioneer. The Pioneer SA-500 is rated at, and 
produces, twenty-eight real RMS watts. It will drive good 
acoustics suspension speakers with amazing clarity. It costs 
one hundred dollars and we guarantee it for two years. 
Come play with it in our store. 
david dean smith 
Corner of York and Elm. 7 7 7-2 3 I I 



Bear Bottom Sale 
Tinker Shop 
Bowl & Board 
75 Whitn.ey Ave. 
Fur Coats 
$ 10-$20 
sheepskin coats 
plain & embroidered 
pants 
dresses 
shirts 
20%- 80% off 


Heads for hire 
head skis 
buckle boots 
steel poles 
ski, boots, poles- $7.00 day, $18.00 I 3 days 
skis, only $5.00 day, $14.00 I 3 days 
another service to skiers 
dial7 87-2111 for daily ski conditions. 
at most New England ski areas

