Publication date: May 12, 1968
Volume: one
Issue number: thirteen


**MASTHEAD**
- Editors: Jeffrey Pollock, Jonathan Lear
- Business Manager: Jean-Pierre Jordan
- Executive Editor: Herman Hong
- Advertising Manager: Jeffrey Denner
- Photography Editor: Peter M.C. Choy
- Associate Editors: Lawrence Lasker, Susan Braudy
- Designers: Ronald Gross, Bruce Mcintosh
- Copy Editor: Paul Bennett
- Circulation Manager: Jonathan Hoffman
- Contributing Editors: Jonathan Aaron, Mopsy S. Kennedy, Michael Lerner, Michael Mandelbaum, Steven Weisman, Daniel H. Yergin
- Staff: John Boak, Joseph Finke, Jennifer Josephy, Christopher Little, Jonathan Marks, Barney Rubin, James Scherer, Warner Wada, Michael Waltuch
- Advertising: Joe Ambash, Bill Gerber, Jeffrey Harrison, Jon Hoffman, John Jeffries, Chris Moffit, Howie Newman, Will Rhodes, Edmund Robinson, Roger Sametz, Sam Sutherland, Steve Weise, Jeff Wheelright, Rick Wilson


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- At home with David Levine - Jonathan Aaron
- Advertisements for a dwarf alter ego - Leo Braudy
- What can honky do? - Joseph LaPalombara
- The inimitable Mr. Mus - Daniel Yergin
- The unaccountable Mr. Ho - Paul Mus
- An outsider at someone else's feast - Betty Jean Lifton
- Tonight, Estelle, you are a star - Susan Braudy
- In Comment: Hubert's supporters make an unfashionable debut and an uptight Democratic machine slips into action. - Michael Mandelbaum
- Machine - James R. Green


**Title: In Comment: Hubert's supporters make an unfashionable debut and an uptight Democratic machine slips into action.**
**Author: Michael Mandelbaum**
**Page number(s): 2**

Humphrey
Winter, 1968, was the season of feverish 
political activity at Yale and other 
colleges. Students traveled to New Hamp-
shire and points west for McCarthy and 
clustered around televisions to see Bobby 
jump in, to watch Rocky bow out 
(temporarily) and to hear Chet, Dave and 
Walter tell it like it was. 

By Saturday, April27, the season was 
over. On that day the announcement that 
Hubert Humphrey, Vice-President of the 
United States, wished to be promoted was 
easily upstaged here by the Cross Campus 
Controversy and the Rites of Spring. 

Perhaps the indifference stemmed from 
Hubert's being a little out of step with 
recent events. With thousands of college 
students anxious and angry about a brutal 
war far away, three weeks after the death 
Martin Luther King and the ensuing 
violence, the Vice-President proclaimed 
that "1968 should be ... a time of great 
confidence and above all ... a time for 
public happiness in this nation." 

Or perhaps Humphrey's rhetoric is too 
uncomfortably familiar. Indeed, he looks 
and sounds very much like his most 
notable mixed blessing, his patron and 
albatross, Lyndon Johnson. 

The cosmic agenda-"these priorities 
of freedom, country and party have 
guided me ... " is Johnson's: "Throughout 
my entire public career I have followed 
the personal philosophy that I am a free 
man, an American, a public servant and 
a member of my party, in that order .... " 

The exuberant tone-"the politics of 
happiness, the politics of purpose, the 
politics of joy"-recalls 1964: ''We're for 
a lot of things and agin' mighty few"-as 
if the bloody four years since had never 
happened. 

Even the central purpose of the Vice-
President's campaign, "the unity of our 
people," is strangely reminiscent. Demo-
crats are asked to support him because he 
alone can hold together, for one more lap, 
the traditional elements of the Democratic 
coalition. Under his banner northern 
blacks and southern whites, "intellectu-
als," labor unions and maybe even a few 
businessmen can congregate; and that is 
"the way politics ought to be in America." 

A group of Yale students who do sup-
port him have organized themselves into 
"Yale for HHH." Admitting that his 
candidacy is "not fashionable" and that 
since he has not formally entered any 
primaries, there isn't much students can 
do for him, the group plans to provide 
information about the Vice-President and 
prepare for a possible fall contest between 
him and either Richard Nixon or Ronald 
Reagan, either one a match which they 
feel would prompt wide support for 
Humphrey at Yale. 

As an initial project, the group dis-
tributed leaflets chiefly devoted to describ-
ing Humphrey's legislative record prior to 
1961. The leaflet asserts that "this country 
needs a series of major reforms and re-
allocations almost immediately." While 
he has made no proposals recently about 
how to achieve those goals, a spokesman 
for the group is confident that Hubert 
Humphrey will step forward with relevant 
ideas before long: "He always has in 
the past~"


**Title: Machine**
**Author: James R. Green**
**Page number(s): 2-3**

On Monday, April 15, I entered St. 
Michael's Hall, the polling place for New 
Haven's Second Ward. I intended to 
vote for Adam Parry and Billie Salter, 
the Reform candidates for Democratic 
committeemen in my ward. What followed 
was not the simple minute in the voting 
booth, but a two-hour nightmare with 
Kafkaesque characters and special effects 
by Boss Tweed. 


I called out my name loudly to a very 
bored poll-watcher until he eventually 
found it among the hazy purple lines of 
the "supplementary list" of registrants-
a convenient roll of students who reg-
istered during the McCarthy campaign. 
"Well, I'll have to challenge you," he 
yawned. I asked for an explanation, but 
the forlorn look on the face of a Reform 
poll-watcher told me that I was asking 
too much. A pencil directed me to another 
table, where the almighty moderator 
reigned. 

"Why can't I vote?" I asked a short 
man who looked frightened in spite of his 
authoritarian manners. "Ya gotta have 
an affidavit," answered Albert Annun-
ziata, lawyer for the city of New Haven, 
machine-tender for a day and "acting" 
moderator when the real moderator was 
out of the room. My relationship with Mr. 
Annunziata was destined to be brief 
and ugly. 

I told him that it would be impossible 
to get an affidavit, since City Hall had 
already closed, but he was unimpressed. 
He mumbled a few words and then told 
me to get out. I told Annunziata that he 
was out of his mind if he thought he could 
prevent me from voting, and I remember 
that I made some unfortunate remarks 
about Ross Barnett and Al Capone. 

"Sheriff," Annunziata said, "take care 
of this guy." Before I could say anything, 
I was being pushed out of the room by a 
squat man in a gold sport coat-the 
sheriff. I later learned that in the course 
of the day more than thirty people had 
been evicted by Annunziata's enforcers. 

But I returned, armed this time with an 
affidavit supplied by a law student. I 
managed to confront Robert Adelman, 
the "real" moderator, who immediately 
rejected my pink registration slip. After a 
few minutes of intense discussion, he 
blandly said that I could vote. The ever-
vigilant Annunziata protested, but to no 
avail. As I left the room there was a long 
line of students waiting to vote. At eight 
o'clock, when the polls closed, twenty still 
stood in the darkened corridors of St. 
Michael's. 

Testimony offered in a Superior Court 
hearing afterward confirmed the worst 
fears of the voters who witnessed the 
events of April 15. Annunziata, Adelman 
and their assistants challenged every single 
voter whose name appeared on the supple-
mentary list and forced nearly all of them 
to leave the polling place to find new 
"evidence" of residency. When checkers 
for the Reform slate challenged a few 
voters on the permanent list, the mod-
erator approved them immediately. 

Annunziata, in spite of his lowly status 
as a machine tender, wielded dictatorial 
power over a system elaborately designed 
to insure democracy. Not only were the 
sheriffs at his beck and call, but moderator 
Adelman, who was supposed to have 
supreme authority over all disputes, acted 
as his lackey. Paula Busch testified before 
the Superior Court hearing that she heard 
Annunziata say to Adelman: "You're 
letting these people vote. You shouldn't. 
The worst thing I ever did was give you 
this job. You ought to take a walk." Mr. 
Adelman took a number of walks during 
the day, and so did Annunziata, whose 
excursions often led him into the voting 
booth-a criminal offense. On one mem-
orable occasion both Adelman and An-
nunziata were absent, making it possible 
for John Santagata, the Machine can-
didate, to act as moderator. 

The voting rights of many graduate 
students have been suspended for some 
time-not by statute but by a registrar's 
"ruling" which prohibits anyone living in 
university housing from registering in 
New Haven. But the obstructionism prac-
ticed in the Second Ward has been the 
most blatant example of discrimination 
against students witnessed thus far. In 
fact, the Democratic officials may be sub-
ject to prosecution under the Civil Rights 
Act of 1965 for systematically discrim-
inating against a certain class of people. 

Lawyers retained by Arthur Barbieri's 
town committee have already stated that 
students are "transients" and should not 
be allowed to vote. In the first day of the 
hearing at Superior Court, Hartford at-
torney Alexander Goldfarb convinced 
the court that the relevant election law 
(which he drafted) does not offer legal 
relief for citizens who have been deprived 
of the right to vote. In other words, even 
if the aggrieved voters win their case, the 
court has ruled that it cannot order a new 
election. Goldfarb has argued further that 
the twenty disfranchised students have no 
grounds for complaint because, due to the 
registrar's blunders, all of the voters en-
rolled since October are ineligible. The 
judge who is hearing the case noted that 
Goldfarb's argument is of "some sub-
stance." 

The Machine is frightened by the six-
teen hundred new voters who registered 
during the McCarthy campaign. Arthur 
Barbieri's April 15 experiment in dis-
franchising these students yielded some 
tangible results. In addition to the twenty 
students who were kept waiting until the 
polls closed, an undetermined number 
of challenged voters did not return to the 
polls. Billie Salter, the Reform candidate 
for committeewoman, lost by eighteen 
votes. Attempts to disfranchise new voters 
will continue unless sufficient protest is 
raised in the press and at City Hall. Thus 
far the New Haven papers and news 
broadcasters have ignored the hearing or 
slanted their reports, and Mayor Lee has 
been compliantly silent about the whole 
affair. 

Further legal action will be taken. Con-
tributions will be accepted by Maynard 
Mack, Jr., 131 Dwight Street.



**Title: At home with David Levine**
**Author: Jonathan Aaron**
**Page number(s): 3**

David Levine, the painter and caricaturist, 
lives near Brooklyn's Grand Army Plaza, where, if you don't know your Brooklyn, 
you are astonished by the sunlight that is 
unimpeded by tall buildings or soot. The 
Plaza Parkway moves around a small 
etoile, at the center of which is an arch 
of triumph honoring the Union Army. 

Levine's house is one of the many brown-
stones that line the nearby side-streets. 
On an oval brass plate the name Levine 
was etched in a worn, elegant script. 

Levine answered the door and led me into 
his quietly lit livingroom, where there was 
just light enough to see the parquet of the 
floor. The house was spacious, though not 
unusually large. It was a place for elegant 
loafing, perhaps. 

We stopped for a moment in his third-
floor study. By a window overlooking 
the street was a heavy desk covered with 
photographs of Bobby Kennedy. Like so 
many hostile Indians, the photographs 
encircled a half-finished caricature. 

Small pen-and-ink drawings covered the 
mantelpiece. Over it hung a large, active 
painting of an aerial view of London. 
"It may be by Turner," said Levine, "but 
I haven't found out for sure yet. It was in 
his studio when he died. But the sky isn't 
his," he explained, "it's been painted 
over." 

On the fourth floor was the large, 
sunny studio where Levine paints. Like 
his study one floor below, it was prac-
tically unfurnished, save for some chairs, 
a couple of tables and some unfinished 
oils. The broad wall facing the stairway 
was covered with small oils and water-
colors. You had the impression that in 
order for Levine either to paint or draw, 
he had to be as free from the clutter of 
daily objects as possible. 

These days Levine is probably the most 
famous caricaturist of political and literary 
persons in the country. For several years 
his acerbic visual commentaries have 
been appearing in Esquire and The New 
York Review of Books, as well as in other 
publications such as Look, Atlas and The 
Washington Post. His drawings are so 
surgically precise, so uncompromisingly 
iconoclastic, that it's a surprise to 
find that Levine is not a withered troll 
mysteriously chastised years ago by the 
gods, not a Loki with a poison pen, but an 
urbane, smiling, good-looking man of 
forty-two who is first and foremost a suc-
cessful representational painter, and a 
caricaturist, as it turns out, strictly by 
accident. 

His black hair and prominent nose give 
him a slightly Latin look, and seeing him 
in the street, you might think he was 
Spanish if you didn't know he was 
Jewish. He looks a little like the retired 
Argentine auto-racing champion, Juan 
Fangio. He isn't stout, but he gives an 
impression of solidity, of good-humored 
yet wary contentment. 

We sat down and began to talk into a 
small tape recorder that whistled and 
squawked. He spoke briefly of growing 
up in Brooklyn, of going to Erasmus High 
School and then to the Tyler School of 
Art at Temple University. His father was 
until recently a dress manufacturer in the 
garment district, and it is to this part of his 
past that Levine returns constantly in his 
painting. 

The world of the garment workers is 
dying, he feels, and despite his faint tone 
of self-mockery, he spoke with a sense of 
mission about preserving details of the 
garment industry in his painting. He ges-
tured toward a large, unfinished oil, called 
"The Presser," on an easel in the middle 
of the room. The painting showed a thin, 
elderly man at an ironing board. He was 
naked to the waist, suspenders fallen 
along his rather baggy trousers, and his 
back was turned to you. He conveyed age, 
dignity, loneliness and grace. 

Levine is also preoccupied with Coney 
Island, another dying world, and he 
pointed to the small water-colors on the 
wall near him. They were scenes of ghostly 
roller-coasters, of empty boardwalk shops, 
whose signs and marquees speak to few 
people any more. 

"I follow a very traditional kind of 
painting," he said, "simply because I want 
to talk to an audience which hangs its 
own mental hat on verisimilitude." He 
particularly admires Degas and Toulouse-
Lautrec, and he speaks almost lovingly of 
Eakins. He describes his own painting not 
with the glib precision of someone who 
has decided what his problems should 
sound like to admirers, but with a be-
mused, sometimes hesitant informality 
that makes clear his continual search for 
a better understanding of even the most 
familiar issues. He seems a man bored by 
few things in life. 

"I'm interested in a broadly understood 
statement which makes somebody say, 
'Well, that's a pretty corny statement; that 
doesn't mean anything to me,' or else, 'Oh, 
that touches on something.' 

"I'd like, for instance, to establish some-
thing about the beach-I paint the beach a 
lot. If people can no longer come to a 
beach without seeing through my eyes to 
some degree, then I have touched on some-
thing." 

He finds in beach crowds "a whole 
visible expression of society." His paint-
ings, even those in which no human being 
is visible, are about people. "I try to select 
things which I look on as healthy-for 
instance, people in the [garment] shops .... 
In our society a man produces something 
which is a contribution, but which is never 
thought of as a contribution; it's just a 
job .... He has no societal role. Take 
'The Presser.' When people in the gar-
ment industry see this, it makes them 
think: 'Oh. There are very few of them 
left.' As soon as I pointed it up, they may 
be able then to go and look on other jobs 
and say, 'Look: those four women lined 
up working, look at the sense of rhythm 
there. I saw it in a painting.' There's an 
innate beauty in just living which you can 
sharpen and make more perceptible for 
people." 

Levine keeps painting and cartooning 
separate, but not entirely from choice. 
"I don't think painting has to do with 
direct, topical, political themes. That tends 
to have been the weakest aspect of painting 
in the thirties. Men tended to make politi-
cal caricatures and mistook them for 
paintings of a social nature. I am very 
happy to have this [caricaturing] as an 
outlet, because I am a very political-
oriented person." He smiled and ex-
plained, "My mother is a Stalinist, and my 
aunt is a Maoist, and between the two of 
them they call me a Trotskyite." 

Levine started drawing occasional 
caricatures for Esquire seven or eight years 
ago at the prompting of Clay Felker, then 
articles editor of the magazine. For Levine 
it was strictly a lark, but when The New 
York Review of Books began to run his 
drawings regularly in 1963, he found him-
self at the start of a career that nowadays 
leaves him less than half of his time for 
painting. He follows a flexible but demand-
ing schedule. "I do about ten drawings a 
month for The New York Review, one 
drawing a month for The Washington 
Post, two drawings a month for Look 
magazine, six or seven drawings a month 
for Esquire, and whatever else comes 
through." 

He has always drawn cartoons, and as a 
boy he wanted to become a comic-book 
illustrator. Enthusiastically, he remembers 
a favorite boyhood magazine, Will Eisner's 
The Spirit, but he points out quickly that 
comic book illustrating was "a dead end." 
The only artist who successfully escaped 
the comics was Levine's close friend 
Jules Peiffer, who illustrated a strip called 
"Clifford" in the back pages of The Spirit. 
It was here that Levine discovered Peiffer's 
work, long before Peiffer got his first real 
break after giving away cartoons to The 
Village Voice. 

Yet the comic book, Levine believes, 
never really had a chance. Irresponsible 
entrepreneurs used it for commercial pur-
poses that had nothing to do with its 
artistic potential. 

We returned to the subject of his carica-
tures. Asked if he had a favorite target, 
Levine thought for a moment and replied, 
grinning again over folded hands, "Him 
Who Is In Power." He elaborated. "There 
was a time in my more 'participant-left' 
days when I would have been protective of 
left-wing people, but that's not what I 
would do today. I think that bureaucrats 
and politicians and power-wielders, on any 
side, in any government, just simply have 
to be constantly criticized in order to keep 
them straight." Levine would, he admitted 
frankly, "go after anybody that they [his 
editors] will ask for"-a statement which 
possibly contradicts his belief that drawing 
is "a highly personalized expression" of 
belief. At the same time, however, carica-
turing seems to be a supra-personal activity 
for him, as it was for Thomas Nast or 
Honore Daumier. 

When drawing a caricature, Levine 
works from photographs, which he collects 
by the dozens. "Most of the planning," he 
said, "goes into selecting the photograph, 
and the rendering in pen and ink. The 
penciling, which comes first, goes very 
quickly. I did a drawing of Jules Peiffer 
last night for Ramparts in about an hour 
and a half." He concentrates on the head 
of his subject and on physical idiosyn-
crasies ("long fingers, clubby-looking 
hands"; remember the nose of LBJ) or on 
characteristic clothing ("Harold Wilson's 
collars"). 

In his drawing, Levine pushes the be-
lievable as far as it will go before it plunges 
into an abyss of overstatement. "If my 
caricatures become too brutal in their 
chopping-up of somebody's appearance," 
he remarked, "you lose the point of what 
I have to say." 

He added that, on the other hand, some 
caricatures are blunted by the very persons 
or ideologies they are out to expose. 
"There is a built-in contradiction in caricature," he said. For example, "A so-called 
socially involved artist will make up some 
horrendous work about the condition of 
man, only to find it's being purchased 
as a lovely decoration for somebody's 
living room. There is a tendency in car-



**An Interview with Levine**
**Author: Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
icature," he went on, "to make cute and 
likeable the very thing that you are 
attacking. Therefore, the implications of 
its being an attack only come across to 
those who already see it as one before 
you make the drawing." 

His main problem as an artist, he said, 
is "just getting to do the things I want to 
do." Every caricature, he believes, is 
simultaneously a public and a private 
statement: public in that it has to do with 
problems of verisimilitude and private in 
that it conveys a personal attitude. His 
painting, however, does not contain this 
duality, and this is his dilemma. "I cannot 
make a bridge, as Lautrec did, between 
caricature and painting. I can't seem to 
bring them into the same world. I think I 
would be even more able to communicate 
all sorts of things if I could ever bring 
them together." 

Our morning had all but vanished. Levine 
had talked a lot, and he sounded slightly 
hoarse. As we stood up and stretched, he 
mentioned the New York art world he is 
far from in the sunny reaches of Brooklyn. 
He has nothing but contempt for the 
universe of flashy Manhattan galleries. 
"Today," he said, his voice rising slightly, 
"anyone can accomplish anything in a . 
standardless art world, which has been re-
duced to that by the marketing ideal-
never mind what the art is; is it saleable?" 

H is anti-establishment views run deep. He 
is irritated by the hypocritically obliging 
response of critics to the.spasmodic 
changes in popular taste. "I think that the 
trade in art," said Levine, "has absolutely 
fulfilled the critique which Marx made on 
the role of the bourgeoisie in art; he said 
something about when you can reduce 
everything to money you will have made 
equal a Rembrandt and so many pounds of 
horse manure." 

We took a few turns around the studio, 
Levine quietly commenting on the small 
paintings on the walls. Each made a direct, 
concise statement, often so well that you 
felt as if you had been poked lightly in the 
stomach. You felt that each was helping 
you to know more clearly something you 
were already dimly aware of. All the same, 
there was nothing you could say. 

We went down to the third floor and 
entered his study again. Levine walked to 
his desk and looked at the makings of his 
caricature of Bobby Kennedy. "It's for 
The Washington Post," he said. ''The 
problem is, how do I do him?" Levine had 
been rendering the senator as a ground-
hog; one paw was raised, testing the air. 
"Weasels steal eggs," Levine mused, "so 
maybe I'll make him into a weasel." This 
was a few days after Kennedy had declared 
himself a presidential candidate. 

The only time the relaxation left 
Levine's voice that morning was when he 
looked now at the photos of his subject 
which littered the desk. He stared at them, 
seeming to see them for the first time, 
and momentarily he was outraged. "An 
incredible opportunist!" he said curtly. 
"He has no ideals and no morals. He's 
doing the same things now he's always 
done." Asked about Nixon, he laughed 
and said with mock fatigue, "Words 
fail me." 

His wife and two children were out, 
so he was going to meet a friend for lunch. 
We went to the ball and put on our coats. 
A high, rambunctious wind kicked at 
us as we stepped outside. The sunlight was 
still full, but the air had gotten colder. 
Levine had neglected to put on an over-
coat, and his well-cut tweed jacket winged 
on either side of him as he hunched into 
the gale. Nevertheless, he walked part 
way to the subway station, talking of 
Eakins and the artistry of the Grand Arrny 
Plaza's arch of triumph. 

Finally we shook hands. He clapped me 
on the shoulder, dismissed my thanks, 
turned and moved away. The wind seemed 
·to follow him back up the street, and be 
walked stiffly, buffeted, a man whose 
fondest ambition it is "to be unseeded and 
yet win at Wimbledon." 


**Advertisements for a dwarf alter ego**
**Author: Leo Braudy**
**Page number(s): 5**

"The Steps of the Pentagon," Harper's, 
March,l968 
"The Battle of the Pentagon," 
Commentary, April,l968 
Woe to him who seeks to please rather 
than to appal-Moby-Dick 

Through the work of Norman Mailer, 
undulating rhythmically like the stripes in 
an American fiag, run the white river of 
magic and the red river of history. Magic 
until now bas been in the ascendent, the 
incantatory exorcisms of An American 
Dream and Why Are We In Vietnam? 
But the latter also foretells "The Steps 
of the Pentagon" and "The Battle of the 
Pentagon" in that curious and complex 
interconnection that makes Mailer's work 
so endlessly rich in new perspectives and 
revisitings. The magical aromas of An 
American Dream, that denial of 
mechanism and technology in the praise 
of individual vitality, diffuse their fume 
through Why Are We In Vietnam? But 
while Stephen Richards Rojack, the hero 
of An American Dream, can retreat to 
barbarous Guatemala, D.J., the hero of 
Why Are We In Vietnam?, must finally 
go to "civilized" Vietnam, must emerge 
from his resonant consciousness to meet 
the cruder realities of war and time, out 
of his knowledge of human loss in the 
passage to manhood to confront the 
perpetrators of those bankrupt values. 

Confrontation is the essence of these 
two new works by Mailer, published by 
New American Library as The Armies 
of Night. In ''The Steps of the Pentagon" 
(much the better of the two) he constructs 
the most elaborate of those stand-ins for 
himself with which he has manipulated the 
outrage of readers ever since the nice, 
talented, sweet Jewish boy who wrote The 
Naked and the Dead fell into disrepair. In 
his journalism be frequently cast himself 
as a character to gain perspective from the 
impersonal third person "one." Monstrous 
egotism, complained the bridegrooms of 
objectivity, who saw the basis of their 
insidious bias being slowly eroded. But 
"one" remained and spawned his epigoni; 
bred on Mailer's pieces about the Clay-
Liston fight and the 1964 Republican 
Convention, who could really call Gay 
Talese and Tom Wolfe the Fathers of the 
New Journalism? 

But Mailer moves on. For each occasion 
a new and apt style, sometimes more 
successful, sometimes less. But each time 
he attempts what most contemporary 
writers with any pretence to stature do 
not: to grapple with new events and new 
ideas and to forge a new method to deal 
with them. In "The Steps of the Pentagon" 
he once again molds a new and 
appropriate style, sounding new themes, 
elaborating old ones. 

The peculiar triumph of "The Steps of 
the Pentagon" is Mailer's ability to make 
"Mailer"- "Lyndon Johnson's dwarf 
alter ego"- an appropriate figure to 
place at the center of events, although in 
actual importance he is only on the 
periphery. "Mailer" is immediately "your 
protagonist," a being whom the narrator 
can manipulate for his own ends. He is not 
unlike one of those passive heroes who 
occupy the centers of novels by Sir Walter 
Scott, unimportant in the streams of public 
uo Braudy is an instructor in English. 
history, a kind of a glass through which 
the "great" events can be seen in some 
perspective, to be either accepted or 
rejected. Like these characters, "Mailer" 
is frequently a comic butt. He is accorded 
various epithets-"the Beast," "the 
Existentialist," "the Ruminant," "the 
Participant." In the early parts of the 
piece, Mailer also participates in mock-
epic exploits like his account of Thursday 
night in the Ambassador theater (the 
secJion that he re.ad to an audience here 
at the Law School). 

Old Mailer-mockers are used to this 
self-display. But Mailer, like Falstaff, 
abides our questions. Whatever we can 
say about him he has already said better 
about himself. The figure of "Mailer" is 
entirely appropriate for the occasion; 
Mailer says that he is "a comic hero" and 
there is need "that he should be an egotist 
of the most startling misproportions." 

And what if he actually is this way? Does 
the work succeed as literature? Has this 
staging of the self been transmuted into 
art? "Write about what you know," advise 
the sages; and if Mailer can thereby write 
· about himself with that incessantly saving 
self-consciousness, why complain? By 
centering a work that deals with a 
historical event around a character much 
like himself, Mailer the narrator gives us a 
simultaneous sense of the event in both 
prospect and retrospect, in the 
contingencies and comic inanities of the 
moment and with the full weight of 
interpretive and abstract pronouncements. 

When Mailer threatens to be overabstract 
or "Mailer" threatens to be petty and 
egotistical, his opposite number restores 
the balance. In himself be compounds the 
comic exuberance of Falstaff with the 
shrewd political sense of Prince Hal. 

"Everyman his own historian," said Carl 
Becker. But he had not seen Mailer 
walking chunkily suave in the Washington 
sun. 

For those who might still protest, it 
must be said that this work is no transcript. 
"Mailer" is frequently ignorant, while 
Mailer is all-knowing. Mailer includes 
documents that deserve preservation, 
while "Mailer" crumples them up and 
tosses them into the nearest wastepaper 
basket or gutter. Mike Holahan, Peter 
Rose, Dave Thorburn and I walked with 
Mailer from the First United 
Congregational Church of Christ to the 
Church of the Reformation, but no 
"Holahan," "Rose," "Thorburn" or 
"Braudy" appears (although John Boyles, 
Gordon Rogoff and of course the Rev. 
Coffin are heavily represented). The two-
hour walk is quenched in a dependent 
clause: " ... and then walked a greater 
distance to the second church .... " 

Further treatment is irrelevant. Mailer has 
his esthetic ends in view, even if "Mailer" 
does not know them. 

Now that I have introduced a personal 
note of my own into the pseudo-objectivity 
of a book review, let me say that for 
someone who was present those days, the 
great achievement of "The Steps of the 
Pentagon" and its "comic hero" is its 
ability to convey the sense that we all must 
have felt of being present at an important 
historical moment, yet still bound by 
our immediate selves, without perspective, 
without a larger, more comprehensive 
judgment. Here was the problem of the 
act itself: to make such a private 
commitment to what we believed moral 
and just, and yet to be so uncertain of its 
public effects, its larger mean~g. ~ere 
does the individual intersect wtth hiStory? 
How does he dare to lie athwart its 
necessitous and plodding rampage? The 
two Mailers offer some answer to this 
question because they embody a literary 
technique passionately wed to the 
uncertainties of the situation itself. The 
"Mailer" who occupies the center of our 
vision is as stumbling apd imperceptive, as 
niggardly and self-dramatizing, in his 
worst and best moments, as ourselves. But 
he does act. And the grandeur of his act is 
enhanced by the humanity, the frailty he 
asserts while he acts. In some basic way 
that William Wordsworth would have 
appreciated, "Mailer" focuses our 
fragmented sense of ourselves before 
implacable history and bridges the human 
gap between our principles and our 
actions, our high-minded idealism and our 
actual egoism. The poet, the writer, is 
more intense but still palpably a man. 

"The Steps of the Pentagon" puts the 
individual into history, faces his confusion 
with its immensity. Yet there is another 
kind of history that stands behind Mailer's 
work, a history that he hopes can be 
realized to purge the more malevolent 
and impersonal history the events of that 
weekend in October tried to stop. This 
history is a history of the mind, of the 
makers of American literature. Behind the 
public history of October 20-22, Mailer 
frequently projects a diorama of the Civil 
War, the shadow of its bloody battles 
shrouding the events of those days in giant 
images from Matthew Brady photographs, 
looming over the not very distant vista of 
Bull Run. But behind the private history 
of "Norman Mailer" caught up in these 
events broods another American history, a 
histpry that celebrates individual power 
and creativity, the history of the 
Transcendentalist, of Emerson, Thoreau, 
Whitman, and later of Fitzgerald, Wolfe 
and Hemingway, invoked as a 
counterpoint -
a better self -
to the 
grotesque that America bad become. The 
figure of Robert Lowell bodies the 
presence of that lost New England cultural 
heritage, that dammed-up integrity; and 
perhaps one source of Mailer's third 
person may be The Education of Henry 
Adams. All of Mailer's remarks fit into 
such a framework of value. One history 
may confuse and thwart the individual; 
the other can redeem him. Even such 
seemingly incidental remarks as Mailer's 
condemnation of LSD are absorbed into 
this vision: the drug is bad because it "rips 
holes in the past," and Mailer fears that the 
past will too readily be consumed by the 
present. 

"The Steps of the Pentagon" is a moving 
and brilliant piece of writing. ''The Battle 
of the Pentagon" is much less successful. 
It is a thorough account of both the 
preparations for the March of October 22 
and the March itself that concentrates 
primarily on the efforts of Dave Dellinger 
to balance the demands of established 
peace groups on one side and California-
oriented militants on the other. Passing 
from "Mailer," the amateur actor in the 
play of history, we have come to Dellinger, 
the professional, who must frequently 
compromise his own fervent principles in 
order to placate one faction or another. 
"The Battle of the Pentagon" minutely 
catches the bone-crushing demands on 
Dellinger's time and diplomatic skills in 
the radical arena. But the prose is stolid 
and unusually lusterless. The tone is 
objective; passive verbs have taken over 
even from the impersonal "one." 

What bas happened? Aside from the 
continued on page I 4 


**What can honky do?**
**Author: Joseph LaPalombara**
**Page number(s): 6**

The group we expect to see on center 
stage this summer has been carefully de-
lineated by the President's Cohimissio~ on 
Civil Disorders. Young people fiftee,n to 
nineteen years old constitute ob.Iy a' small 
minority of any American city; but as the 
events Of Memphis illustrate, they ~an 
quickly turn peacefill demonstrations into 
violence artd chaos and the mood of the 
countr~ into one of fear and demand•for 
order. History wiU demonstrate that" 
clamorous' public demands for law and 
order are often invitlitions to a drastic 
constriction of human freedoms. 

These young, people of the dation's 
racial ghettos combine the resentment and 
anta~onisrrl of the acutely deprived with 
the cynicism and open hostility that people 
under thirty typically feel toward existing 
institutions and mores. Unless we find 
effective ways of responding-to ~ese 
youths, no program we can design to 
ameliorate our domestic illness will prove 
very salutary. 

I cannot predict with confidence how 
students of the Enlightenment will assess a 
macabre national calc'ulus where the life 
of a Martin Luther King equals the pas-.. 
sage of an open-housing law . .Although it 
appears that we may permit violence itself' 
to remain the primary stimulus to cor-
rective action, 1 will suggest an emergency 
program for our cities' youth. But in 
discussing the necessary role of Black 
Power (the hope of some) and White 
Power (an oppressive reality for many) in 
such a program, I am impelled to respond 
to the signals I get from Black Power 
spokesmen. 

First; I fully agree with Stokely Car-
michael,' who holds that it is fatuous for 
whites and self-defeating for black 
Americans to expect that a racist America 
will solve its problems if everyone plays 
by white rules. I am fundamentally guided 
by Barrington Moore's suggestion that 
since white Americans don't believe in 
their 6wn rules anyway, we must view with 
"relentless skepticism" all suggestions that 
anything is better than violence. 

Second, I am a white racist in a racist 
America, in both senses of racism that 
Carmichael and Hamilton identify in 
Black Power (pp. 3-6). I have personally 
inflicted violence on black Americans. As 
a child of a Negro-Italian-Jewish ghetto 
I participated in frequent (though rarely 
fatal) skirmishes, the "rumbles" of the 
depression years. When Italians and Jews 
were not fighting each other, they were 
attacking, or being attacked by, the com-
mon "enemy." Some of my gleefully or 
angrily burled bricks found their target. 

I am also a racist in the second sense 
suggested by Carmichael and Hamilton. 
I have personally been guilty of what 
they call "institutional racism" by con-
tinuing to support or acquiesce to a num-
ber of American political, industrial and 
commercial organizations that tend to 
perpetuate a subjugated status for black 
Americans. Like Other white liberals I 
have tried to expiate this guilt by sending 
money to jailed civil rights workers in 
Mississippi or by marching in Alabama. 

My first reactions to Black Power were 
patronizing. How, I thought, can anyone 
hope to organize a political movement if 
Joseph LaPalombara is a professor of 
political science. 
he has not carefully spelled out an 
ideology? When black Americans spoke 
to me of violence, I wanted to know the 
ends for which they expected violence to 
function. I thought that as long as I did 
not in fact exclude violence as a political 
instrument, I could establish a dialogue, 
could participate not only in clarifying 
but (alas!) perhaps in helping to shape the 
thinking and the strategy of Black Power 
advocates. It took time and a number 
of frank exchanges to show me that I. too, 
was asking black Americans to play the 
political power game by white American 
,rules. There was no difference at all be- · 
tween my asking Black Power advocates 
or leaders to tell me what their i~eology 
might be and the harassed and confused 
New Haven business community's asking 
"the leaders of the Black Boycott to tell 
them specifically what they wanted. 

In my frank exchanges, I dipped into 
history, drawing the obvious analogy 
between the anti-ideological posture of 
Black Power advocates, white American 
drop-outs, hippies and New Leftists on the 
one hand, and the nihilist movements that 
engulfed the 'European continent between 
the wars on the other. Whatever the merits 
of that analogy, I missed the point that it 
was my white America I wished to pre-
serve for political degeneration and that 
for most black Americans it made little 
difference where nihilistic behavior might 
lead on a continuum of freedom or 
slavery, democracy or totalitarianism. The 
first white American who seems to me to 
understand this fully and perhaps to 
provide a compelling rationale for non-
ideological violent behavior is Norman 
Mailer. What he tells us in his brilliant 
article "The Steps of the Pentagon" is that 
after violence our society will not be what 
it was before violence. I am persuaded 
that for many of the people of our black 
ghettos that assurance is enough: preach-
ing about the "insanity" of burning their 
own rat-infested firetraps will find fewer 
and fewer black listeners. 

For some time I was also uncritically in 
favor of accelerated occupational integra-
tion, busing, open housing, liberalized 
admission policies in higher education 
and so forth. It was difficult to agree with 
black Americans who opposed the bleed-
ing-off of leadership from the ghettos, the 
creation of a spurious black middle class or 
elite, the increasingly forced implementa· 
tion of equal opportunity policies. I still 
favor much of this, but I must recognize 
that such advocacy is inconsistent with the 
first sociology I learned twenty-five years 
ago. That sociology taught me that 
America bas two stratification systems 
and that whatever may be the number of 
"life chances" society awards the Negro, 
he never gets out of the black stratification 
system and into the white system because 
white Americans will not permit this. The 
"assimilation hypothesis" was and remains 
wishful and erroneous. 

Where, then, do I differ with some of 
the Black Power leaders? 

First, notwithstanding the history of 
slavery and of the years since "emancipa-
tion," I fear that many black leaders 
grossly underestimate white America's 
capacity for violent and repressive reac-
tion. These leaders seem much more adept 
at estimating how much resistance to their 
strategies they are bound to find in the 
black ghettos. Their strategies seem ap-
propriate when the revolutionary group 
intends to wrest total power and bas some 
prospect of doing so. When Stokely 
Carmichael writes about black Africans 



**Title: storming the citadels**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
7 I The New Journal I May 12, 1968 
storming the citadels of the Union of 
South Africa, such an assumptio'! makes 
sense. In the United States such an as-
sumption, I believe, i~seJf-defeating for 
the cause of Black Power. White America 
will neither grant total power nor even, as 
Carmichael has claimed, turn over the 
control of our major cities exclusively to 
black Americans, even where the latter 
constitute a numerical majority, 

While Black Power spokesmen have 
some capacity for triggering violence, they 
have very little apparent ability to control 
or direct it. Lenin, a successful revolution-
ist, had a profound understanding of the 
tendency of violence to achieve a momen-
tum of its own, frighteningly free from the 
control of those who set it in motion. 

It seems to me crucial for Black Power 
advocates to worry about this problem. 
At the risk of offending those Black Power 
spokesmen who insist on borrowing noth-
ingfrom European history, I would argue 
that Lenin's What Is To Be Done? might 
be fruitful reading. Certainly much more 
fruitful than Frantz Fanon, who may have 
much that is relevant to say to oppressed 
majorities in the Third World but precious 
little for black Americans confronted by 
a white power structure. 

Black Power leaders also severely mis-
interpret the nature of the power structure 
in America's major cities. It is now a cliche 
to read that Harlem, Roxbury and Watts 
are simply "colonial" areas exploited by 
the white power-holders. But the exploita-
tion of blacks, politically and economical-
ly, is also a collusion between the "white 
power structure" and some "black 
brothers." The notion that all black 
Americans are brothers and therefore 
dedicated to revolutionary change is ab-
solutely fatal for a program designed to 
inculcate a sense of political self-
sufficiency. There are two goals in con-
flict here. To achieve a sense of identity 
and self-respect in opposition to the 
"hooky" community requires, I think, the 
concept that all black Americans are 
brothers; to achieve revolutionary change 
requires that Black Power leaders consider 
which black Americans-in Harlem, Rox-
bury, Watts or South ChicagQ-\'Ihould be 
"taken out of play." 

The sense of helpless dependency must 
be ended. This requires not merely 
hostility toward ameliorative programs 
conceived and administered by whites but 
also a bard-nosed look at what in the 
black community itself plays into the 
bands of a white-determined racism. I 
find the Black Power literature singularly 
lacking in such calculations. 

Although many whites and most "Great 
Society" advocates like to think that fi-
nancial efforts to alleviate social and 
economic distress have been massive, the 
President's Commission on Civil Dis-
orders notes that they have barely. 
scratched the surface. "For the Negro 
family in the urban ghetto," tbe Com-
mission notes, "the future seems to lead 
only to a dead-end .... New methods of 
escape must be found for the majority of 
today's poor" (p. 282). 

To meet the emergency, existing gov-
ernmental machinery will not suffice, and 
new arrangements must be tried. In its 
broad outlines, my proposal involves an 
immediate general appropriation of two 
billion dollars. The funds would be 
primarily earmarked for cities with a 
high-riot-potential profile. Most of the 
cities where Negroes constitute more than 
ten percent of the population would fall 
into this category. Almost all of the thirty 
largest cities would qualify. 

The funds would be used to create jobs 
for the-underemployed and unemployed 
young, male Negroes of the ghettos. The 
projects providing such employment op-
portunities would be cQosen by the young 
people themselves in conjunction with 
older leadership in the ghettos. As much 
as possible, federal funds would be chan-
neled through an emergency administra-
tion-perhaps a Department of National 
Urban Survival--directly to those at the 
urban level who would spenp (not "ad-
minister'') such funds. This pattern would 
involve not merely reaching around state 
governments, which the national govern-
ment is already quite expert at doing, but 
circumventing existing local governmental 
units as well. 

Community..development and anti-
poverty agencies should probabty con-
tinue to function, but only with the 
understanding that they are not in any 
way to interfere with the emergency NUS 
program. It would be the responsibility 
of other agencies concerned with the gen-
eral problem not to have their programs 
delay, water down, divert or subvert the 
NUS end-in-view. "Co-ordination" is a 
typical subverting or at least delaying 
word and must be shunned. 

Whites would have as little as possib~e 
to do with this program. This means that 
ghetto-wide or ghetto-neighborhood or-
ganizations (public corporations if neces-
sary) would receive funds, perhaps on the 
basis of a simple head count or the ratio 
of persons to units of living space or the 
mean number of rat bites per month over 
the last five years. The data are easily at 
hand; no further investigation or research 
is needed to discover "relevant" criteria. 

How would the funds be used? Frankly, 
I don't know. The general guideline is that 
use is to be determined indigenously, as 
I indicated above. My assumption is that 
no one knows better than ghetto residents 
what has high priority, what they want 
and what they do not want. At all cost, 
what "they" need must not be determined 
by what "we" think is best, or feasible. 

Some neighborhood groups may want 
to renovate existing residential structures. 
If doing so requires that slumlords be dis-
possessed, I would argue that eminent 
domain has in our history been used for 
less worthy and less humane causes. If 
another group wants to demolish dan-
gerous, rat-infested tenements, local 
authorities should seek to facilitate this. 

Would the money be "spent well"? 
From one or more vantage points, prob-
ably not. Americans who have been 
deprived in every sense of that word may 
be expected to Jack myriad technical, 
occupational, administrative and related 
skills. There would without doubt be 
waste, inefficiency, errors that would look 
silly and avoidable to "reasonable" men. 
In some cases there would also be venality, 
corruption or downright exploitation of 
black by black. Why should it be different 
in an America where the gap between 
what we preach and what we do is agoniz-
ingly apparent even to tt.e most illiterate 
child of the ghetto? 

Consider, too, how strikingly selective 
we are about identifying and condemning 
what we call waste and inefficiency. Three 
airplanes scarcely off the drawing boards 
are sent to Vietnam for "tests," and in 
the space of a few weeks the country is 
out about 25 million dollars. If our news-
papers are correct, we are as a nation cur-
continued on page 14 


**Title: The Unaccountable Mr. Ho: What now?**
**Author: Paul Mus**
**Page number(s): 9-10, 15**

9J The New Journal! May 12, 1968 
The Unaccountable Mr. Ho: What now? 
by Paul Mus 
Yale University recently had the benefit of a documented and provocative lecture by the eminent British expert on Southeast 
Asian policy, Mr. Dennis J. Duncanson. 

Mr. Duncanson, the author of Government and Revolution in Vietnam, is highly qualified to approach first hand what he de-
fined as the "three enigmas" still confronting us in Vietnam, especially in the masterful and elusive personality of the President of 
the Democratic Republic, Ho Chi Minh. 

Mr. Duncanson is quite familiar with the problems of British Malaya, the one and only communist "unrest" that has been 
handled efficiently. He spent five years with the British mission headed by Sir Robert Thompson in Saigon. 

He had contact with President Diem, of 
whom he says, "As many of his com-
patriots might admit today, if in the East 
one dared to speak one's mind about faJien 
politicians, he was the embodiment of his 
country's soul, for good no Jess than for 
bad." 

Of the three "enigmas" in Vietnam, two 
are classical items in the field-the rela-
tionship between the DRV (North Viet-
nam) and Southern guerrillas, and the 
DRY's dependence upon Peking. In 
both cases, interpretative speculation 
has proved so deceptive that even a close 
perusal of the facts available does not ap-
pear, after so many years, to leave us 
much the wiser. The major difficulty, as 
Mr. Duncanson sees it, is that the answer 
to both questions hinges on the one to be 
given to what he considers the third and 
major riddle: Is President Ho's charismatic 
personality relying on a deep nationalistic 
urge and commitment of the Vietnamese 
people? 

As a matter of fact, such a trend has 
generally been considered the dominant 
Jesson of Vietnam's whole history, 
dramatically illustrated and confirmed by 
present events. In his book, however, 
Mr. Duncanson deliberately rejects such 
views. 

The emancipation of the first Viet-
namese states from Chinese rule in the 
tenth century is usually explained in 
modem history as a nationalist up-
rising against an early type of colonial 
rule; but a closer look at the events 
attending the collapse of the Tang 
dynasty does not bear out this explana-
tion, nor is it compatible with the sub-
sequent course of Sino-Vietnamese 
relations. It was the Thais of Nam 
Chao who evicted the Chinese from 
effective control of Tonkin in 863, not 
any popular uprising of the Vietnamese 
.... Vietnam became independent be-
cause China, in a state of anarchy, 
abandoned it. 

Mr. Duncanson's iconoclastic historical 
dispositions do not prepare him to accept 
another commonplace assertion, that the 
Vietnamese people have very com-
mendably resisted, in spite of immediate 
contact and even after a thousand-year-
long annexation, the weird assimilative 
power of their immense and justly prestigi-
ous neighbor. For China combined in her 
own inimitable "cosmic" culture much of 
what was the essence of Greek, Roman 
and to some degree Western medieval 
civilization--enough at least to convert 
and lead a continent. The Chinese world 
was a continent, as its counterpart, the 
Indian world. 

It is a fact that the Vietnamese have 
stopped Chinese culture along a line 
reaching from Moncay to Lao Kay, com-
pelling it to build there not China but 
Vietnam. 

They have found a way to absorb 
Chinese culture instead of being asborbed 
by it. The key to this unparalleled achieve-
ment was apparently that they never re-
sorted to the usual weapon of the weak, 
ethnic hatred against the their conqueror. 
However, Government and Revolution 
in Vietnam would tell us quite another 
story: 

The evidence is against the modem 
Vietnamese complaint that China 
would at aU times have liked to swal-
low up Tonkin and was only prevented 
by the patristic ardour and the valour 
of the people. Without exception, 
Chinese interventions after Vietnam 
became independent had as their ob-
ject the restoration of Vietnamese 
princes deposed by their subjects, and 
the issue of legitimacy can be traced 
as a Chinese concern right through to 
the modem period. Even the action 
of the Yung Lo Emperor in 1407 was 
clearly intended to take a disorderly 
vassal state in hand when its ruler 
appealed for help and to put it firmly 
in order once for all. 

Our academic circles, with their tradi-
tions and possible prejudices, will admire 
the extensive and deep erudition displayed 
along these dense, certainly controversial 
but stimulating pages. 

The embarrassment begins when 
against a background of generally per-
ceptive historical appraisals, the reader 
is faced with the trite statement, end-
lessly repeated in this country from the 
highest government circles to the lowest 
level of our press, that the communist 
enterprise in Vietnam, "far from having 
been founded spontaneously by local 
men converted to Marxism through 
intellectual curiosity and conviction, was 
from the outset a subversive movement 
introduced into Vietnam by the Com-
munist International, out of considerations 
that hold no interest for the Vietnamese 
people." Did this clicM have to be repro-
duced here, without mention or attempted 
refutation of most obvious local facts and 
factors allegeable against it? From the 
same viewpoint it is disquieting that as 
crucial a development in Vietnamese 
history as the foundation and confirmation 
of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam, 
should be inscribed under the chapter 
heading "The Anarchy of Ho Chi Minh." 

Remarkably accurate and discerning in 
the collection and computation of details 
and at the same time apt to the broadest 
historical envisioning, Mr. Duncanson 
seems to suffer from a periodic color-
blindness: whenever the picture turns red, 
the lines, to his otherwise clear-sighted 
eye, become confused. 

Against the consensus of Vietnamese 
and Western historians that the Viet-
namese have had to vindicate themselves 
as a nation against steady Chinese attempts 
to englobe them, it is a rather poor case, 
though cleverly pleaded, to postulate that 
(l) far from trying to rip back the self-
rule the Vietnamese had achieved under 
somewhat distant and general Chinese 
suzerainty, the Chinese never took arms 
against their vassal and once protectorate, 
and (2) the Chinese instead tried to restore 
"Vietnamese princes deposed by their sub-
jects," a policy which, to all Western 
standards, would amount to a recognition 
of the country's independent status, as 
established in 972. 

Modem events help us to understand 
the policy that integrates a territory, as far 
as materially possible, in a broader system. 
First a monopoly of "protection against 
hostile neighbors" is extended through the 
use of a "Chief of State by appointment." 
A model of this may be seen in the 
"Emperor" Bao Dai during the first Indo-
chinese war. Such a policy does not go 
far, it must be noted, when it meets with 
antagonism or fretfulness in the country. 
From the first Chinese conquest of 111 
B.C. to the "liberation" of 939, who would 
seriously contest that sporadic insurrec-
tions, latent unrest and in several instances 
prolonged and effective guerrila warfare 
have manifested themselves in Chiao 
Chih (the ancient Chinese name for 
Tonkin) every time the political and 
military domination of the Chinese was 
impaired by troubles at home or divisions 
of the Empire? And this has had an un-
mistakable, though specifically Asian, 
"national" accent. Shall we then follow 
Mr. Duncanson in reading the long and 
consistent sequence of events as just a 
token of the local population's restless-
ness and endemic anarchy? Is it only on 
this that Ho ("the unaccountable Mr. 
Ho," as a British colleague in the middle 
forties in Calcutta described him) has 
built his "charismatic" personality? If 
such were the case, how long could one 
expect that the present suspension of "all 
internal conflict" in the DRV may endure? 

But Jet us not miss so completely the ex-
plicit and bloody lessons of history, past 
and present! The anarchy of Ho Chi 
Minh? Against this very human and un-
derstandable temptation to fall back, for 
lack of better comfort, on that kind of 
complacent thinking, the best antidote 
will be found in Pike's encyclopedic (and 
truly fundamental, on all points of fact) 
Vietcong, the Organization and Tech-
niques of the National Liberation Front 
of South Vietnam (though the present 
writer would not endorse all the political 
suggestions of this straightforward and 
highly informative book). 

Pike gives an impartial demonstration 
of the fact that this undoubtedly "Com-
munist-led" organization owes its suc-
cesses and its ascendency in South Viet-
nam to its high level of efficiency and 
administrative competence. This tipped 
the balance against the Saigon government 
and its kaleidoscopic display of military 
hats. 

The last and deplorable episodes of the 
once-lively intercourse between the 
French and Vietnamese, from Dien Bien 
Phu to Geneva, show how far on the road 
of deception and destruction a people who 
styled itself without wincing "the most in-
telligent on earth," has been dragged by 
its unintelligence of the local situation. 

No doubt, in the case of Mr. Duncanson, 
the word that will come to the reader's 
mind will be, quite to the contrary, "intel-
ligence," and intelligence harnessed to 
political intents. Yet it is to be feared that, 
half way between government and 
revolution, "intelligence," receiving, as 
is natural, its passwords from the former, 
may take from the latter, or from its costly 
aftermath, precisely too professional an 
evaluation, as dependent on manipulations 
rather than on a definite and straight-
forward policy. The American public, to 
whom the last word should fall by right 
(and who seem to be increasingly awaken-
ing to this constitutional fact), when con-
fronted by a book of that quality and 
at the same time learning the mark of such 
an inspiration, should reap the full benefit 
of a patient and direct digest, while re-
maining aware of the preconceived ideas 
along which the computation has been 
organized in somewhat dismaying coin-
cidence with the most unproductive lines 
followed by the present Administration's 
policy. 

Bearing these remarks in mind, a reader 
feeling the need to reassess President 
Ho Chi Minh's personality in terms of his 
full historical stature, past and present, 
will find valuable Jean Lacouture's Ho 
Chi Minh, a Political Biography, in its 
forthcoming English translation (Random 
House). Ho is presented neither as an 
infatuated doctrinarian nor as an im-
penitent anarchist. He is even less a 
prospective or even possible Tito (in the 
highly mythical sense usually attached to 
that name). Instead Ho is an authentic 
Marxist, aware of the necessity of local 
accommodation and, precisely in this, a 
genuine patriot. 

All this establishes Ho on both accounts 
as a valid interlocutor for this great nation. 
That is, however, if America gets beyond 
a hopefully superannuated short-sighted-
ness and does not give up its own ideals 
and traditions of fair play as the hour of 
destiny draws close. The time has come 
to give up instead the inspiration behind a 
statement made by no less respectable an 
authority than Dean Acheson. No matter 
what Parliament may think of it, Acheson 
said not so long ago, the point is to get 
what you want. This is not the sort of 
guidance the world has been accustomed 
to receiving .from the US since the days 
of Benjamin Franklin's famous mission 
to a Paris pregnant with its own revolu-
tion. 

Sixteen years ago in the concluding 
pages of a sociological evaluation of the 
first Vietnamese war (the Franco-Viet-
namese War), the present writer suggested 
that the Marxist-Leninist thesis that would
continued on page 15 



**Title: An outsider at someone else's feast**
**Author: Betty Jean Lifton**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
10 I The New Journal I May 12, 1968 
An outsider at someone 
else's feast 
by Betty Jean Lifton 
After the signing of the Geneva Agree-
ment in 1954, only a few American 
correspondents remained in Hanoi to 
witness the Vietminh takeover. We were 
staying at our own risk, according to our 
consulate. B'ut we stayed because we knew 
that in watching the French officially 
evacuate the pleasure-loving city that had 
been their colonial base fot seventy ye~s 
to the communist guerrilla forces of 
Ho Chi Minh, we were viewing an historic 
event. How historic it was and how our 
own country's destiny would be tragically 
tied up with North Vietnam a decade later, 
we could not then understand. 

It keeps coming back, that cold, rain-
drenched day of the takeover: October 9, 
1954. The ironic picture of the modern 
French mechanized army rumbling out, 
sector by sector, and being replaced by 
short young Vietminh troops in faded 
green fatigues and rubber-soled canvas 
shoes. The Vietminh,like an ominous 
shadow, trail just a few hundred yards 
behind the French, keeping a respectful 
distance until that final moment when they 
envelop everything. 

They were emerging from the jungles 
and the mountains for the first time since 
the fighting broke out in Hanoi, December 
19, 1946. They allowed us to inspect them 
as if they were no more than camping 
equipment on display, each man a pack-
aged unit of tin cup, mosquito netting, rice 
ration, aluminum fork and spoon, 
wooden-stick grenades, short bayonet, 
entrenching tools and rice bowl. 

The citizens of Hanoi, under a French-
imposed daytime curfew, remained behind 
their shuttered windows. For the past few 
days they had been busy whitewashing 
walls with signs like: "Go South For 
lndepedence," taking down pictures of 
ex-Emperor Bao Dai and shopping in the 
market place for red and gold material to 
make the Vietminh flag. 

The stores once filled with French per-
fume and lingerie, the bars and cabarets, 
the restaurants with their bouillabaisse 
and coq au vin were boarded up: their 
owners had already fled south. All that 
had been French seemed about to pass 
with these long convoys of white men, not 
a few of whom must have loved this city as 
their own, 

At five in the afternoon the last French 
jeep rolled over the Doumer Bridge on its 
way to Haiphong, the port city that did not 
have to be evacuated until May. In 1897 
the French had built this steel bridge over 
the Red River to connect Hanoi with the 
adjacent rice delta. The Vietnamese had 
protested then that such a construction 
would anger the Red River dragon. But 
the French had laughed and gone on with 
their work in the turbulent rapids. Their 
success increased French prestige and 
lessened the dragon's. Now with this last 
jeep it seemed that the dragon was having 
its revenge. 

Auhe Vietminb took this fia.al sector,
Betty lMn Lifton covered the end of the 
Korean War and wa.r a correspondent in 
Vietnam in 1954. She has contributed 
tQ The New York Times Magazine, 
Mademoiselle and The Asahi Evening 
News of Tokyo. She is the wife of Robert 
Jay Lifton, professor of psychiatry. This 
is her second appearance in The New 
Journal. 

the people poured enthusiastically out 
into the streets to welcome them, throwing 
flowers, waving the Vietminh flag with its 
gold star rising on a red background. But 
the troops did not relax. Although there 
were many local boys among them, they 
kept their discipline and ranks, and did not 
mix with the crowds. 

Later I was to hear fro.m a Vietname$e 
college student about his cousin, w~o had 
marched into Hanoi that day. The cousin 
was only 16 years old wben he left Hanoi 
to join the resistance. His parents had not 
known until the French withdrawal 
whether he was alive or dead. Overcome 
with happiness, they had planned a family 
reunion in his honor. 

"No," be objected firmly. "It is not 
patriotic for you to have a party. You must 
not spend money on celebrations until we 
have liberated all of Vietnam. For eight 
years I have lived on nothing but rice and 
salt-rice and salt twjce a day-and this 
is all I will eat until Vietnam is united." 

His parents were burt and confused; 
they considered themselves patriots. Had 
they not given this son to the Vietminh? 
But they were also Vietnamese, and tradi-
tions of family loyalty and filial piety go 
deep in Indochina. This valiant soldier for 
whom they had waited with such longing 
had finally returned-but he was no longer 
theirs. He spouted words of ideology they 
could not understand. He preferred sleep-
ing in the barracks to spending even one 
night in his own bed. 

"And yet my cousin is more nationalist 
than communist," the college student had 
said. "He was only fighting to free Vietnam 
from French colonialism. We hate the 
French." The student paused as if con-
sidering for a moment and added: "And 
if you won't be insulted, we bate America, 
. too, for helping them. Americans are even 
more foreign to us than the French. If you 
had ever lived under foreign occupation, 
you would know what it is to hate." 

That first night all of Hanoi was gar-
landed in flowers and flags. Ho Chi Minh 
and his top officials had not yet entered 
the city. The advance guard was to prepare 
the people for life under the new regime, 
the Democratic Republic of Vietnam. As 
if they had been rehearsing this moment 
for years in the jungles, they swung into 
immediate action. They organized Hanoi 
into neighborhood groups and urged 
everyone to attend the first of the many 
meetings that characterize a new com-
munist state. 

The foreign press spent part of the even-
ing at the Metropole Hotel as guests of the 
Indian, Canadian and Polish members of 
the International Control Commission. 
But while the champagne was bubbling in 
our glasses, we were thinking about those 
meetings from which we, unlike the 
Russian, Chinese and other communist 
correspondents, were barred. 

"The sessions are so dull," a young 
Vietnamese woman I shall call Trac was 
to confide in me the folfowing week. "The 
canbo (as the cadres are called) keep re-
peating things about French colonialism 
and American warmongering until you 
almost fall asleep. Sometimes they go on 
until after midnight. Only the children 
seem to like them because they get to 
dance and stay up late.'' 

Trac was from a wealthy family. Her 
hair was carefully waved and her lovely 
silk gown, with its high Chinese collar 
and long slit skirt falling over satin 
trousers, was made of imported French 
material. Most of her relatives and friends 
had left the North. "My uncles were ex-
pecting large shipments from France and 
had to go south to wait for them. Other-
wise they would lose a great deal of mon"ey. 
But some went because they had heard 
the Vietminh kill the rich and are good 
only to the working classes. They were 
afraid." 

Trac had stayed on because her father 
was ill and did not want to leave the city 
of his ancestors. One brother had gone 
south; another was with the Vietininh. 
''The Vietminh will probably be good to 
us until the elections," she sal d. "After 
that . . . well, I don't know." 

With the departure of the French army, 
we had to leave our fon:mer press billets 
and find other accommodations. The one 
large hotel, the Metropole; was occupied 
by the Control Commission. A few of us 
were lucky enough to get rooms m a 
former brothel across the street~ the Coq 
D'or; the only remaining tenants after 
the girls had fted were the rats and cock-
roaches. My room was bare except for a 
bed in the center and the mosquito netting 
which hung down from a bamboo rod on 
the ceiling, but it had the virtue of over-
looking the Metropole, which was to be-
come an important source of information. 

The morning after the takeover 1 could 
hear voices through the shutters of my 
window. Looking out I saw more Vietminh 
soldiers, thousands of them, still streaming 
in from the outlying villages, singing their 
victory songs. For a moment I felt alien 
in this jubilant city, an outsider at someone 
else's feast. 

I walked the streets of Hanoi that first 
day with Kien, a Vietnamese boy who was 
serving as interpreter for the Control 
Commission. The French garrison town of 
yesterday seemed to have .disappeared. 
Hanoi had a festival atmosphere. Victory 
arches rose from the intersections, and 
huge banners proclaimed ''Ten Thousand 
Years for Ho Chi Minh" and "Unbreak-
able Is the Friendship Between China and 
Hanoi." The tree-lined boulevards (which 
the French so fondly laid out in their 
colonial towns as if to create a little piece 
of home) were now being cleared for the 
afternoon victory parade. 

The park in the center of town was filled 
with young promenaders, girls with their 
hair hanging long and sleek down their 
backs, boys sporting Vietminh buttons and 
scarves. They cheered wildly as their in-
fantrymen passed by, each soldier carrying 
flowers in one hand, a rifle in the other. 
Mothers held their babies up to see-

We bought some newspapers after the 
parade and sat in the warm sun at one of 
the little tables along the lake. People 
passing by whispered, "Look, there's a 
Russian woman.'' 

My interpreter had learned his English 
working for the British Information 
Office while his older brother was fighting 
in the Vietminh army. He told me that the 
people of Vietnam are nationalist in 
their feelings, care little about com-
munism and are wary of China. 'We have 
always hated the Chinese," he said. "It 
was from this very lake that our great 
warrior Le Loi drew the sword with which 
he defeated China almost 600 years ago. 
Before that we fought China for over a 
thousand years." 

Yet Kien spoke in a mixture of Western 
and communist idiom. "Did you notke 
how kind the police are today?" he asked. 
"They have all been brainwashed by the 
canbo in a three-month coarse in the 


--- Page 11 ---

111 The New Journal I May 12, 1968 
villages." He explained that the word for 
bramwashing in Vietnamese is "chinb-
huan" (pronounced "ching-wan"). 
"Chinh" means correct, "huan" means 
to pull in a good way. "Brainwashing must 
be a good thing if police go in corrupt 
and come out honest," said K.ien. 

His face darkened as he read me the 
Chinese and Soviet press releases in the 
newspaper. Russia's five~year plan was 
described, reforms in China were praised. 
The editorial columns informed the people 
that everyone must be prepared to endure 
hardships for the next few years until after 
the elections in 1956. There would be 
longer working hours, possibly a rice 
shortage, many sacrifices until after the 
elections. The period after the elections 
(which were never to be) loomed like a 
utopia when the 13 million people of the 
North would be united in blissful harmony 
witli the 11 million people of the South. 

"Does it really matter if there are elec-
tions?" Kien bitterly interjected. "Under 
either side the Vietnamese people wiJI not 
know independence. H the North wins, we 
will be domin&.ted by Chinese and Russian 
infiuence. If the South wins, we'll still have 
the French with American io.ftuence." He 
added with an ironic smile: "Do you 
understand that this is the tragedy of my 
people? No matter what happens, we will 
not have independence." 

There was one young person who was 
clearly not confused in those early days in 
Hanoi. That was the young female canbo 
assigned to the Control Commission's 
transportation division in front of the 
Metropole Hotel DeeMed in a shapeless 
ru:my tunic just like the men's, she wore her 
hair pulled back severely into two braids; 
her broad face was well scrubbed and de-
void of make-up. 'Women in every respect 
are now equal to men," the new constitu-
tion read, and "Pigtails," as we called her 
among ourselves, seemed to illustrate this 
with the brisk efficiency with which she 
translated instructions from English and 
French for the Vietnamese drivers. 

However, Pigtails obviously had other 
tasks, too. One afternoon she stopped Trac 
on the street with the cryptic remark: "I 
understand an American lady has been to 
your home." Trac bad never seen Pigtails 
before and was shaken by this encounter. 
"It isn't that you know they are following 
you," she complained to me. "It's just that 
they always seem to know what you are 
doing." After that, Trac was always "too 
busy" to see me. 

To my surprise, Pigtails agreed to an 
interview at the hotel. She arrived accom-
panied by a male canbo in a battle helmet, 
who was armed with a pad and pencil. 
Since he was not introduced, I also pre-
tended he was not there; but he wrote 
copious notes, and I had the feeling he was 
getting the better story. 

Pigtails told me bow she had joined the 
Vietminh in 1945 when it was a coalition 
party headed by the nationalist and com-
munist hero, Ho Chi Minh. She fled Hanoi 
with the troops when negotiations with the 
French over independence broke down the 
following year. 

It was a bard life in the villages at first, 
but she helped organize literacy courses 
for the peasants and studied medicine in a 
small hospital unit. To become a canbo 
she trained intermittently in three-month 
courses in Marxist history and revolution-
ary techniques and then helped set up such 
resistance activities as Foster Mothers 
for the Wounded, Cultural Corps enter-
tainers for the troops, factory workers and 
supply runners. She married another 
canbo during this time but saw him only 
twice a year because he was working with 
the racial minorities in the mountains. 
They-had two small children whom she 
left in a village to be cared for. 

"When Vietnam is free and united there 
will be time again for family life," she said. 
"Now we women must give our entire 
energies to the resistance." 

What had given Pigtails her early 
political fervor? She remembered her 
father, a government clerk in Saigon, 
continually dreaming of Vietnam as an 
independent country again and brooding 
over the heavy taxes inflicted on the 
peasants, the lack of educational pro-
grams, the constant draining of his coun-
try's resources into the coffers of a foreign 
power. Even after his early death, when 
her mother had taken her to Jive with 
relatives in Hanoi, she never forgot her 
father's vision. At the close of World 
War ll, she felt be would have wanted 
her to give her services to the government 
that Ho Chi Minh bad just set up in Hanoi 
--one that stressed national unity and 
co-operation with the West. 

"When the Western powers did not 
honor the Atlantic Charter and allowed 
the French to continue colonizing us, my 
friends and I moved closer to the com-
munist wing of the Vietminh. We became 
convinced that the communist program 
offered the last hope for strong and unified 
action against the French." 

Pigtails asked me if American women 
had fought in Korea. She was curious to 
know if they had the same revolutionary 
zeal as she to fight and die for their coun-
try. "I am sure American women are very 
nice,'' she said, "but it is too bad your 
country does not understand the Viet-
namese people. You are sending money 
to South Vietnam to build up an army, 
but they will never know independence 
with the corrupt government. The way 
your country acts, we think you want war." 

Like on welcome guests who are neither 
encouraged nor completely rebUlfed-
requests for interviews with Ho Chi Minh 
and other government leaders were merely 
ignored-we roamed the streets of Hanoi 
for our material. Sometimes I would stop 
in at the walled compound of Jean 
Sainteny, that controversial Frenchman 
whose car bad entered Hanoi over the 
Doumer Bridge at the same time his 
countrymen were pulling out. 

Sainteny had been sent by Mendes-
France on an unofficial economic mission 
to explore the possibility of coexistence 
with this new regime, a quest that was 
looked on with deep suspicion by the 
French, Americans and Vietnamese in ttle 
South. "Americans misunderstand my 
purpose," Sainteny told me. "Our mission 
is not communist. In fact, the Vietminb 
think we're right-wing capitalists. We be-
lieve that if there is a chance of keeping 
North Vietnam within the Western bloc 
through trade agreements, we want to 
try it." 

But the drama of Sainteny's story lay 
more in the past than in the present. At the 
end of World War II be was the Hiih 
Commissioner of North Vietnam. Al-
though strongly hostile to America's ideals 
of liberating tbe colonies then, he was 
wise enough to J'ealize that France could 
retain her control only if she gave Vietnam 
independence within the French Union. 
At the time, Ho Cbi Minh was willing to 
make this compromise, and an agreement 
to this effect was actually signed by the 
two men. However, when the French 
colons tried to undermine it by setting up 
a separate state in the South, the Vietminh 
felt betrayed; and after a few skirmishes 
they rose up in Hanoi that fateful Decem-
ber 19. Sainteny was wounded and almost 
lost his life. 

Now once again the fates had thrown 
Sainteny and Ho Chi Minh together, but 
their roles were reversed. The French 
colonial whom Ho bad bad to beg for in~ 
dependence nQW could only hope to make 
the North a kind of Yugoslavia. And Ho 
was in a position to dictate the terms of 
any arrangement he might care to make 
with France. 

Sainteny did not have to wait long for 
an audience with Ho. "It was as if I had 
seen him only eight days ago instead of 
eight years," Sainteny told me after their 
first meeting. "He was very natural and 
direct. We did not talk about the war at all. 
I was amazed at his lack of hostility." 

Sainteny did succeed in arranging a 
trade agreement, but his mission was to 
fail within a few years. Too much that was 
irrevocable had already passed between 
the two sides. 

The night the clocks were changed to 
Peking time I was having dinner at the 
Sainteny compound. We did not take 
the change seriously, and it was a few 
minutes past the 11 p.m. curfew when 
one of the members of the mission drove 
me back to the Coq D'or. We were given 
an impressive demonstration of the thor-
oughness of the Vietminh security system. 
Every few streets sentries stepped out from 
the shadows and then, seeing we were 
foreign, motioned us on. But when we 
came to the section of town where the old 
prison was located, four guards jumped 
out and rushed the car with bayonets. We 
skidded to a stop immediately. 

We frantically shoved identification 
cards through the window, but they 
weren't interested. They knew that 
foreigners were no more authorized than 
Vietnamese to be out after curfew. One 
of them yanked the car door open roughly 
and, pointing with his bayonet, signaled 
my companion to get out and go with him. 
The Frenchman had just been tellin& 
Me how he had been a paratrooper with 
the Free French and had learned not to 
fear death. But his face was drained of 
color when that door opened and he was 
forced out. 

"Stay here," he whispered. "Don't move 
from this spot." 

I had no intention of going anywhere. 
I remained sitting in the dark, desertc!d 
street with the cordon of soldiers surround-
ing the car. 

By the dim street light I could see ttiat 
they were young. These were ~t 
boys 
who belonged in the fields harvesting the 
rice. They looked at me defiantly. None 
of us existed as individuals. They were 
communist& fighting their revolutioo, and 
I was the imperialist foreign invader'. I felt 
both frightened and a little sad. 

Ten minutes later my companion r-. 
tUrned, still at the point of a bayoner.. & 
got into the car quickly and drove otf. 
"That fool almost killed me," he muttered 
under his breath. "He kept jabbing me ill 
the ribs with that damned thing while we 
were walking to the prison. Luckily there 
was an officer who spoke French and told 
him to release me. It's these dumb peasants 
you have to watch out for. All they know 
is tiahting and killing." 

There were no patrols around the 
Metropole. Inside, some Canadians and 
Indians had formed a barbershop quartet 
and were working on "Auld Lana Syne ... 
I could hear them singing as I walked up 
the dart stairs of the Coq D'or and looa 
after I had turned off the light. 


A Yale Institution for Upperclassmen 


--- Page 12 ---

**Title: Tonight, Estelle, you are a star,**
**Author: Susan Braudy**
**Page number(s): 12**

121 The New Journal I May 12, 1968 
~'Tonight, Estelle, you are a 
star," said someone, "the 
bar-mitzvah girl." 
by Susan Braudy 
Three weeks ago, Estelle Parsons was 
bouncing down 47th Street to the Barry-
more Theater in New York wearing bright 
orange tights, an orange sweater and a 
short tweed skirt. She exuded the chunky 
sexuality of a junior league tennis player. 
Blanche Barrow, whose preacher's-
daughter plainness reminded you of dusty 
streets and dried-up lives, seemed far 
away. 

Estelle had just won an Oscar for her 
supporting role as Clyde's sister-in-law 
Blanche in Bonnie and Clyde. But in a 
week she'd still be out of a job. Tennessee 
Williams's new play, Seven Descents of 
Myrtle, with Estelle in her first starring 
Broadway role, was about to fold, panned 
by the critics. 

Four autograph hunters, on the look-
out for Blanche, passed Estelle by. She 
shook her head. "One woman waited for 
me by the stage door for two days but 
couldn't recognize me. Finally I went up 
to her. She was so happy. It was awful; her 
nose was running from the cold. Who 
needs a name on a scrap of paper?" 

Estelle is hard to type-cast. Yale people 
remember her as the pathetic nurse and 
doughnut-sir! in We Bombed in New 
Haven, who worried as much about mak-
ing lousy doughnuts as she d id about not 
getting a husband. 

Estelle can play women of any age, 
comic and tragic, plain and fancy, though 
always strongly emotional. And Estelle is 
an emotional woman. Her moods flash 
sultry humor, whining impatience and 
quick anger. But when she acts-and she 
hasn't taken a vacation in ten years-
these moods yield to a tight and deep 
control. 

Arthur Penn, director of Bonnie and 
Clyde, calls Estelle the epitome of the 
courageous actress who will try anything 
for a good characterization. "She offers a 
rich assortment of delectables, and all the 
director has to do is selt:ct those he likes 
best." 

Estelle's concentration and drive have 
paid off. Now at 40 and looking 30, she is 
finally making it big in a career less am-
bitious women give up at 25. In Seven 
Descents, Estelle fully realized one of 
Tennessee Williams's complex females, 
the sort that made stars of Jessica Tandy, 
Maureen Stapleton, Kim Hunter and 
Geraldine Page. As Myrtle, Estelle turned 
in a virtuoso performance as a newly-
married ex-carnival girl, down on her 
luck but not on her charm. In weather-
beaten pink boas, she combined the 
innocence of a puppy with the pizzazz of 
a carnie kewpie doll. 

Once again Estelle repeated her habit 
of getting rave reviews in folding plays. 
Before Seven Descents came back to New 
York after Philadelphia previews, critics 
were agreeing that Estelle had scored a 
personal triumph but the play would 
probably fold. 

In Philadelphia, right before the first 
paid preview, Estelle was sitting in her 
bare dressing room, staring over a table 
littered with makeup into a dusty mirror. 
Susan Braudy is a regular contributor to 
The New Journal 
Her eyes were puffy, and her cheeks 
looked almost pouchy. 

"I had a nightmare about my character, 
Myrtle, last night. It was awful." She 
abruptly began teasing the front of her 
hair. "I had my hair dyed apricot for the 
play. I want the roots to show, but the 
audience won't be able to see them for a 
few weeks; that is; if we run that long. 
"Myrtle's roots show because she's a 
bad imitation of a Hollywood movie star. 
But when she figures out she's not going to 
make her show-biz dream, she latches onto 
this Southern gentleman to try out another 
dream, the happy-marriage dream." 

She began slapping white powder on her 
face and neck. "David Merrick was in 
here and kept staring at that movie maga-
zine." She pointed to a pink magazine with 
"Mia and Frank/ How Marriage 
Destroyed Their Love" on the cover. "I 
guess he was wondering if I go in for 
movie magazines, but I cho~ it as a prop 
for Myrtle." 

Estelle was now clipping a rhinestone 
cluster into the front of her hair. "Opening 
a play is awful. You keep asking, Why, 
what am I doing here? You have to be 
masochistic. This part is such a terrible 
responsibility. I'm hardly off-stage at all. 
You know something," she said in a voice 
low and almost without emphasis, "this 
is the worst moment of my life." 

Almost from the start of rehearsals 
Estelle could remember problems and 
disagreements. The press reported that 
David Merrick, the show's producer, had 
wanted cuts in the third act and a title 
change. Williams bad wanted to stick with 
the original title, Kingdom of Earth, and 
neither Williams nor director Jose 
Quintero wanted to make cuts until after 
a few Philadelphia performances. 

Harry Guardino, Brian Bedford and 
Estelle came to rehearsal in the Hotel 
· Claridge ballroom in New York one day 
to bear Quintero announce that he was 
leaving the show. He then left the ballroom 
followed by Tennessee Williams. 

''That day was the most wearing of all. 
When I got home that night I was more 
exhausted than I bad ever been after any 
rehearsal." 

The next day Quintero was back. Ap-
parently a compromise had been made. 
The title was changed, but cuts were put off 
until after the Philadelphia try-outs, which 
were delayed a week. 

Estelle turned back to the mirror. 
"Here's a telegram from my parents wish-
ing me luck. They never wanted me in the 
theater, and they were probably right." 

The telegram leaned against the mirror 
behind Twiggy eyelashes and a jar of 
Hollywood cold cream. "But you better 
go now," she said. "I have to change." 

She began putting shiny orange lipstick on 
her mouth, deliberately smearing it well 
beyond her lip line. 

Ten minutes later Estelle, now Myrtle, 
bounced onto the stage, carrying battered 
luggage and her pink movie magazine. 
"Woo, woo, that wind is penetratin'," she 
howled happily, "shahrp as a butchah's 
knife." 

Twelve butchah's knives, two weeks and 
180 miles later, Estelle took her opening-
night curtain calls and returned to her 
dressing room in the Barrymore theater on 
Broadway. The mirror-lined dressing 
room smelled like a greenhouse. Orange-
pink camellias from Mobile filled both 
sinks. "They won't keep, no stoppers in 
the sink," she said, nervously turning on 
the spigots again and again. 

Queuing at the door were a host of well-
wishers including Joanne Woodward, who 
wore a blue McCarthy button on a gold 
dress. Photographers began snapping 
pictures of the two women, who played to-
gether in the film Now I Lay Me Down, 
Paul Newman's directorial debut, which 
will open in September. 

When everybody left, Estelle pulled off 
her eyelashes and sat down. "I'm glad it's 
over. Imagine playing five more times this 
week. But on to the Sardi's ordeal." Her 
voice cracked with fatigue, but she was 
grinning her wide grin. "I guess tonight's 
the night you always dream· of as an 
actress." 

At Sardi's Estelle sat with a group of old 
friends, most of them not in theater, who 
spoke little about the play. They assumed 
that the Philadelphia raves for her per-
formance would continue ·in New York. 
"Tonight, Estelle, you are a star," said one, 
"the Bar Mitzvah girl." And theater talk 
quickly yielded to McCarthy versus 
Kennedy. 

But Estelle wasn't in the discussion. Her 
mind seemed to be still on the play. The 
argument barely stopped to note that an 
eleven-o'clock reviewer had praised 
Estelle's acting but bad knocked the play. 
David Merrick's office had promised a 
cast party upstairs at Sardi's. But when 
everyone had finished their canneloni and 
fruit cup, they discovered Williams and 
Merrick had slipped away and so bad the 
party; and so, it was beginning to seem, 
had hopes for the play's long run. 

Estelle's family goes back to the May-
flower. Her grandfather, Starr Parsons, 
taught Latin at Harvard; her father, Eben, 
is a Massachusetts lawyer. She is also 
descended from Effie Bickford, a soubrette 
of the 1880's who is considered the 
family's black sheep. 

Estelle made her stage debut at four as 
Little Bo Peep shrieking and shrieking 
for her lost sheep on a revolving birthday 
cake. "And I've had shrieking parts ever 
since." Warner Brothers enhanced her 
shrieks in Bonnie and Clyde by instructing 
exhibitors to turn the soundtrack way up. 
Mter boarding school ("a Quaker 
school for gracious living") Estelle grad-
uated from Connecticut College in 1949 
and then went to Boston University Law 
School for a year. 

"I was always more interested in show 
biz than io a law career. I was always 
trying to quit college and take agents up oo 
offers to go to New York and sing with 
bands. But my parents said it wasn't the 
life for me." 

Finally Estelle escaped. In 1950 she 
turned down the chance to transfer to 
Harvard Law School and landed a job as 
weather-girl on Dave Garroway's Today 
Show. 

In 1955 Estelle, by then producer-com-
mentator, left her $800-a-week job with 
Garroway to study acting. "In ten years," 
she declared then, "I intend to be one of 
the world's best actresses." 

In the following years she played fea-
tured roles in Broadway musicals like 
Happy Hunting, starring Ethel Merman •. 
in 1957. She studied at Actors Studio with 
Lee Strasberg, then played the lead in 
Mrs. Dally Has a Lover, winning a 
Theater World Award; she picked up two 
"Obies," played the prostitutes in Edward 
Albee's Malcolm in 1965 and played 
Galileo's daughter in the Lincoln Center 
Galileo in 1967. 

At the end of 1966, after working with 
Arthur Penn in the first Berkshire SUJDJller



**Estelle Parsons: A Profile**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
13 I The New Journal! May 12, 1968 
Festival, she made Bonnie and Clyde, her 
first film. Last summer she played a school-
teacher with a lesbian attraction to 
Joanne Woodward in Now I Lay Me 
Down. 

Last fall, still fifteen pounds overweight 
from Now I Lay Me Down ("They paid a 
doctor, not me but a doctor, to make sure 
I lost that weight"), she joined the Yale 
Repertory Company to play the pathetical-
ly funny Red Cross girl in Joseph Heller's 
We Bombed inN ew Haven. 

At the cast party for We Bombed she 
stood amidst Yale faculty in her lucky 
purple chiffon dress, talking to Mr. and 
Mrs. Paul Newman and looking like 
nothing more than a faculty wife, with 
station wagons, Conn College and horse 
shows in her background. But the focus 
shifted when Estelle and Joanne Wood-
ward began dutifully kissing each other 
goodbye. 

Suddenly Paul Newman dropped to 
his haunches. And while his wife and 
Estelle dissolved in giggles, he sighted 
them through an imaginary camera. 
"Roll 'em," he shouted. "Make that kiss 
on the lips, girls, a little warmer, a little 
bigger, on the lips." 

Estelle says she lost money doing the 
Heller play. Those days she didn't com-
mute between her sprawling west side 
apartment and New Haven; she stayed 
over in an English professor's office in 
Branford College to save hotel bills. 
"There's no money in serious theater. I'm 
always broke." 

While she stayed in New Haven, a 
Columbia Teachers' College student 
stayed with her twelve-year-old twin 
daughters, Abbie and Martha Gehman. 
Estelle was married to Richard Gehman, a 
writer, in 1953 and divorced in 1958. 
"Like Myrtle," Estelle says, "every girl has 
a dre~m in her heart of settling down 
with a man to whom she is strongly at-
tracted. But if you can't do it, you can't 
do it." 

"I'm an actress and a mother. I'm a 
loner," she told me as we sat down at a 
luncheonette near the Barrymore a week 
before the Academy Awards ceremony. 
"I don't go out much, so I don't see many 
movies and shows. People say my work 
is original because I never see anybody 
else work." 

Estelle took off her coat, being careful 
not to crush an old-fashioned orchid 
corsage that Jose Quintero had given her. 
"When I'm in New York, I get up, make 
breakfast for the kids, pack school lunches 
and then go back to bed for an hour. Then 
I drag myself to work." 

"I'll have one of those big cookies over 
there," Estelle said with a cherubic smile. 
"I'm really not interesting enough to 
write about. All I do is work. Maybe you 
should announce my engagement to David 
Merrick. That's a good rumor. He's send-
ing me to the Academy Awards ceremony. 
Of course I had to promise to mention 
him if I won." 

She sighed, "Who needs an Academy 
Award anyway? Not me. I don't have the 
time or money to campaign for it. First 
you throw away $5,000 on a press agent, 
then once you win, you don't get work 
again for two years." 

Does she feel like a star? "Acting is my 
work. I can't help it if my name goes below 
or above a title. I just keep doing each 
part. There's nothing to strive for if you 
decide you're a star who has reached the 
heavens. 

"I don't like to admit it to myself, but 
I must be very ambitious, or else I never 
would have gone through all this with the 
kids and everything." 

She played with her fork. "Sometimes 
I think that nobody with brains goes into 
acting. I guess I'm an emotional, not a 
cerebral, actress. Emotional actors need 
psychiatry. You have to know yourself to 
throw yourself into roles. You can't be 
blocked. Sometimes I wish I was a writer 
working in privacy. It's tough to work 
always in a group with other emotional, 
egotistical people." 

What are her plans? "Well, I'm going to 
make another movie with Faye Dunaway, 
where I play the head of a modeling 
agency. I want to work with Arthur Penn 
again this summer in the Berkshire 
Theater. I guess it all depends on what hap-
pens to Myrtle, but the way things are 
looking, I'll probably be free." 

Estelle bad finished her big cookie and 
coffee and insisted on paying the biJI. A 
quarter fell off the table and rolled under 
the jukebox. Suddenly she was on her 
knees, then Oat on the floor, groping under 
the blaring jukebox. 
"How would this sound, Estelle?" I 
leaned over to ask. "Estelle Parsons, star 
of stage and screen, is now appearing 
under a jukebox, doing her famous find-
the-quarter act." 

"No, no," came her muffled shriek, 
"star of stage, screen and television. For 
God's sakes, don't forget television. I 
really make my living doing commercials 
like that Excedrin one that cures the 
flu-bug." 


**Mailer: A Critical Assessment**
**Author: Anne Heywood**
**Page number(s): 14**

Mailer 
continued from page 5 
thematic consideration mentioned above, 
I would hazard two suggestions. Perhaps 
the piece is a joke on Norman Podhoretz, 
editor of Commentary. Who knows 
whether Podhoretz or Willie Morris of 
Harper's jumped in there first with the 
offer? But the Harper's piece is brilliant, 
while the Commentary piece is just that: 
filled with the plodding details and more 
plodding socio-political meditation that 
frequently characterize Commentary 
writing. Here is the March cut and dried 
for the purposes of political 
argumentation, with the glimmer of true 
prophetic power only toward the weary 
end. 

My second suggestion is more 
disturbing. Perhaps Mailer's critics have 
been getting to him. He must rewrite the 
events in an objective ~ood to show he 
can do it, to show that the "Mailer" of the 
Harper's piece was a persona- get it?-
that had thematic and stylistic relevance. 
If this last is true, too bad. Bring back the 
Mailer who makes no apologies. Bring 
back the Mailer who irritates. Bring back 
the Mailer who appals. 


**Honky: A Proposal for Urban Crisis Management**

Honky 
continued from page 7 
rently spending about $300,000 for every 
Vietcong our overkill strategy succeeds in 
eliminating. If we spend one-tenth that 
much to make a potential rioter better able 
to direct his energies and his frustrations 
to what he thinks are constructive activi-
ties, the program will be very cheap at 
the price. 

Simple arithmetic will show, however, 
·that the program I am proposing doesn't 
come near that figure but represents, 
rather, an investment of about $2,000 for 
each young person who would be covered 
by the program this summer. 

Are there problems of conceptualiza-
tion, organization, law, administration, 
public opinion and politics apparent in 
my proposal? Hundreds of them! My 
intention is not so much to offer a neatly 
packaged program as it is to urge us to 
think about managing crises outside the 
conceptual, organizational and value cate-
gories that are in considerable measure · 
the very conditions that hobble us, even 
when our intentions are unimpeachable. 

I am trying to respond in spirit to the 
President's Commission's urgent appeal 
that we "mount programs on a scale equal 
to the dimensions of the problem" and 
that we "aim these programs for high 
impact in the immediate future .... " 

Obviously what I am suggesting is only 
a first step--a timorous step that New 
Haven itself may have taken in its recent 
decision (subject to HUD approval) to 
turn over to neighborhOOd groups funds 
appropriated under the "Model Cities" 
program. But there is evidence of inde-
cision, bureaucratic delay and diffidence 
on the part of some white leaders. In New 
Haven, as elsewhere, it will be extremely 
difficult to turn an appraisal of the gravity 
of our situation into a courageous and 
massive attempt to create a new frame-
work, indeed a new psychological mood, 
for responding to an unprecedented 
national emergency. 

Does the white community, then, have 
more to do here than merely to provide 
funds? I believe that we white Americans 
must be available as a possible resource 
to be used by black Americans when they, 
not we, think it is necessary or desirable. 
If the spirit in which the NUS program is 
launched is the right one, some coopera-
tion and collaboration is inevitable, but I 
should not require it or-in some areas 
where Black Power "ideology" is very 
strong--expect it. 

Above all, white participation must not 
be one of forbearance or benevolent and 
paternalistic charity. When the Stokely 
Carmichaels and Rap Browns insisted that 
racism here is primarily, perhaps exclu-
sively, white, many of us demurred. That 
indictment now has the endorsement of 
a distinguished President's Commission. 
Its recommendations will represent 
nothing more typical of the "American 
way" if they are adopted on the assump-
tion that we can buy our way out of this 
crisis. Racism is what really defines the 
magnitude of the crisis, and its effects can 
be overcome only through programs 
which give blacks the opportunity to 
build the dignity and sense of self-reliance 
that white America has denied its black 
citizens. 


**Mus: Reflections on Vietnam**

Mus 
continued from page 8 
Benda adds, "He's a universalist, in spite 
of being a magnificent scholar. There's 
nothing he's not interested in, to know, 
to read." 

Mus has also written on contemporary 
events. After leaving the French govern-
ment, be wrote a major book, not yet fully 
translated into English, called Vietnam: 
Sociologie d'Une Guerre. 

Of Ho, Mus now says, "At the time of 
the Great Leap Forward in China, North 
Vietnam tried the same, to industrialize, 
and it failed. During that period Ho was 
eclipsed, for he was against the idea. But 
he accepted it so as not to jeopardize his 
leadership. The man showed moderation 
with great strength of purpose. He might 
be a good man. I'm not a Marxist and 
I don't try to sell Ho, but for some reason 
he might be better able than anyone else 
to organize something there." 

Mus does not think Paris is necessarily 
a good place to carry on negotiations. 
"I'm not so pleased by the selection of 
Paris. There's a violent movement there 
against United States policies. The French 
don't know about the incredible reaction 
of so many Americans, how well informed 
they are in the coverage of the war. It's not 
impossible that the Vietnamese k.now this 
and are using it as a weapon. After all, 
it's peaceful here in this country, but right 
now tons of bombs are falling on Vietnam, 
and the North Vietnamese might want to 
capitalize on the antagonism in France." 

Mus has spent much of his life in Viet-
nam and devoted his scholarship to it. 
The years of war there, he says, "are a 
very heartbreaking thing. How lovable 
that country is, unassuming, courageous. 
They're capable of great solidarity and 
are very intelligent. A very gifted people. 
"I regret very much that General West-
moreland said South Vietnam should pull 
up its sleeves and fight on. When you are 
200 million people with the greatest army, 
air force and navy the world has ever seen, 
you don't say that of a country of 15 
million. The young in the United States • 
will not accept that attitude, and the world 
will not accept it. But as Reischauer, the 
former US ambassador to Tokyo, has 
written, this country is haunted by the 
notion that the Communists are all seven 
feet tall." 


**Ho Chi Minh: An Assessment**
**Page number(s): 15**

Ho 
continued from page 9 
be the most difficult to "sell" to the Asians, 
especially to those in areas still imbued 
with classical Chinese thinking, would 
be that history is fast moving toward its 
end, as predicted by Marx. 

This end was to come when the over-
industrialized and mercilessly exploited 
proletariat of Western Europe and En-
gland seized power. Such exploited classes 
would have "nothing to lose." The 
capitalistic exploiters would become, by 
the very process of their appropriations, 
less and less numerous, until they were 
ready to be wiped out by the laboring 
classes. Those classes would be rid of aU 
the mystifications, such as religion, 
patriotism and other indoctrinations, and 
thus aware both of the exploiters' schemes 
and of their fragility. History would be 
done: no more conquests, encroachments 
or conflicts-wherefore? Scientific ex-
ploitation of nature, without exploitation 
of man by man, would insure satisfaction 
of all human needs. The incitation to work 
would be found in the worker's enlight-
ened care for his own health. 

However, successive disappointments-
the 1848 revolutions over all Western 
Europe, the Parisian Commune of 1871-
made necessary some adjustment of the 
Marxist system. The general line remained 
that the proletariat in its accomplishment 
will become the model and yardstick of all 
authentic progress. In the meantime, 
though, this "measure of all things" will 
be given by an anticipation, in a preview 
form: the Communist Party, rid even now 
of all mystification thanks to its familiarity 
with the correct doctrine. 

Where in this process, with the 
polemics, does the impact of Ho Chi 
Minh's personality fit, and where did he 
establish his "charisma"? 

"An Asian," writes Lacouture "is made 
by what he has done." This, by the way, 
is a flash of light on what is simply and 
directly human underneath the general 
belief of these peoples in transmigration, 
even in those who have renounced the 
myth. Ho Chi Minh is what he has con-
fronted; his reactions have formed an 
unusual and at the same time informative 
experience between two universes. 

In 1917 and in the next few years, in 
war-torn France and in the convulsions 
of an uneasy peace, the young Vietnamese 
revolutionary found his contacts with the 
Western European Marxists deeply dis-
satisfying. In their eyes, the fight of the 
colonized peoples was far down on the 
list, far from the priority assigned to 
their problems-strategically but effec-
tively-by Lenin. This helped to make Ho 
a fervent disciple. In any event, in his first 
encounter with theorization "by the 
book," Ho felt he was representing a deep 
and unheard call of human nature. The 
call was that of history, as it was going on 
unobserved by the theoreticians. Ap-
parently Ho has never forgotten this les-
son, even when Lenin had furnished him 
better guidance in that direction. 

How far does this take us beyond the 
myth of a monolithic, adamuntine Marx-
ism and from the appended domino 
theory? That will be ascertained in the 
course of the prospective negotiations. 
But in that decisive experience, on which 
so many crucial things hang, we risk find-
ing no worse an enemy than the wrong 
image we have been building or which has 
been built for us of Ho, our interlocutor. 
Let us see him as he has so many reasons 
to see himself: history alive, vindicating 
its right to be so unquestionably oriented 
by a theory, but ·disposing of the theory 
when new situations so demanded. 

The final issue thus appears to be 
whether or not some prospective com-
munity of interest and undertaking is pos-
sible between us, as once the possibility 
of any accomodation or formula of co-
existence between the Moslem world and 
Christendom was debated. 


Classifieds 
CUSTOM COLOR-BLACK & WHITE 
printing and processing. Slides--negatives--
sheets, rolls, 35mm subminiature. Speed 
changes--<:olor correction~ropping. Ekta-
chrome, Anscocbrome, Kodacolor, Koda-
chrome. Foreign color film. Wallet to 
mural sizes. Contact sheets. Still and movie 
duplicates. Slides for lectures. Filmstrips. The 
Color Studio, 35 Broadway, 2nd door. 
777-2909. 

VASSAR SOPHOMORE is interested in 
Spending junior year at Yale. Would like short 
term marriage with next year Yale Senior. 
Call914-454-1619 between II and 12, 
weekdays. 


~nrprise cash sale 
b e ,;-ins a t The Yale (;o-op 
on May I ii! 
Each day through Saturday, May 26, 
a different item will be offered 
at big surprise savings in every 
department of the store. 
Books, records, gifts, sporting goods. 
men's clothing, men's furnishings, 
cameras, room furnishings, ladies 
wear and stationery are all included. 
Cash only on sale items but PR tool 
Open daily 9 to s:~o. 
Thursday until 9 pm 


1:00AM and 
you're still studying 
Don't go to bed 
hungry, go to 
OL~S 
Open 24 hrs. a day 
1064 Chapel 



**Title: Yale Film Festival**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Yale Film Festival 
--
Three public screenings of the best and 
most recent works of experimental cinema, 
selected from over 200 titles 
May 10,11 and 12,1968. Friday Saturday 
and Sunday. 
8 pm at the Law School Auditorum, Wall 
and High Streets. 
$1.00 general admission. 
Tickets available at the door or through 
advance sale at Yale Co-op and the Yale 
Audio-Visual Center at 59 High Street. 

