Publication date: MAR 2022
Volume: 54
Issue number: 4

**Masthead:**
- Editors-In-Chief: Alexandra Galloway, Zachary Groz
- Executive Editor: Jack Delaney
- Managing Editor: Eli Mennerick
- Associate Editors: Nicole Dirks, Jesse Goodman, Caroleine James, Noa Rosinplotz, Dereen Shirnekhi, Will Sutherland, JD Wright, Katherine Yao
- Senior Editors: Beasie Goddu, Madison Hahamy
- Copy Editors: Meg Buzbee, Jabez Choi, Anna Fleming, Lucy Gilchrist, Ella Goldblum, Ella Pearlman-Chang, Kaylee Walsh
- Creative Director: Annli Nakayama
- Design Editors: Savannah Crichton, Jacob Feit Mann, Ally Soong
- Photography Editor: Lukas Flippo
- Business Manager: Sherry Chen
- Members and Directors: Emily Bazelon, Peter Cooper, Jonathan Dach, Kathrin Lassila, Eric Rutkow, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, Fred Strebeigh, Aliyya Swaby
- Advisors: Neela Banerjee, Richard Bradley, Susan Braudy, Lincoln Caplan, Jay Carney, Andy Court, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Susan Dominus, David Greenberg, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Laura Pappano, Jennifer Pitts, Julia Preston, Lauren Rawbin, David Slifka, John Swansburg, Anya Kamenetz, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Nicole Allan, Margaret Bauer, Mark Badger and Laura Heymann, Tessa Berenson, Susan Braudy, Julia Calagiovanni, Elisha Cooper, Haley Cohen, Peter Cooper, Andy Court, The Elizabethan Club, Leslie Dach, David Freeman and Judith Gingold, Toby Galloway, Dana Goodyear, Paul Haigney and Tracey Roberts, Eli Kintisch, Bob Lamm, Kathrin Lassila, James Liberman, Sharon Lowe, Jim Lowe, Alka Mansukhani, Steven Mennerick, Beatrice Mitchell, Benjamin Mueller, Sarah Nutman, Sophia Nguyen, Amelia Nierenberg, Valerie Nierenberg, Morris Panner, Laura Pappano, Dennis Pierce, Jennifer Pitts, Jeffrey Pollock, Julia Preston, Adriane Quinlan, R. Anthony Reese, Raymond Rund, Eric Rutkow, Lainie Rutkow, Laura Saavedra and David Buckley, Marilynn Sager, Robert Scaramuccia, Anne-Marie Slaughter, Elizabeth Sledge, Caroline Smith, Gabriel Snyder, Elizabeth Steig, Fred Strebeigh, Jeff Strong, Aliyya Swaby, Jacob Sweet, John Jeremiah Sullivan, Daphne and David Sydney, Daniel Waterman, Kristian and Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Townsend Wilson, Daniel Yergin, William Yuen


**Table of Contents:**

IN GOOD FAITH - Elena DeBre
THE PANDEMIC NEXT TIME - Phoebe Liu
DEMOLISHING OAK STREET - Cleo Maloney
AGAINST SOLITARY, IN SOLIDARITY - Lukas Flippo
STANDARDS - points of departure - Daniel Inojosa
THE BLUE HOUSE - Eric Krebs
THIS FLIGHT TONIGHT - Dereen Shirnekhi
A SATURDAY AT LUCIBELLO'S ITALIAN PASTRY SHOP - Hannah Qu
LESSONS FROM A FRACTURED LEGACY - Paola Santos
THE GALLERY IS CLOSED - aside - Abbey Kim
ABeCeDarian IN E MAJOR - poem - Beasie Goddu
DIVING IN TWICE - poem - Ella Goldblum


**Title: IN GOOD FAITH**
**Author: Elena DeBre**
**Page number(s): cover, 4**
Veterans discharged without honor are searching for an upgrade. A group of students at Yale Law School wants to help them find it.


**Title: THE PANDEMIC NEXT TIME**
**Author: Phoebe Liu**
**Page number(s): cover, 6**
Frank Snowden, a professor emeritus in Yale’s History of Science and Medicine Program, studied epidemics and social change for decades. When the pandemic hit, his work gained new relevance.


**Title: DEMOLISHING OAK STREET**
**Author: Cleo Maloney**
**Page number(s): cover, 8**
Sixty years ago, New Haven destroyed a community to build an expressway. Now, the City says it wants to make things right.


**Title: AGAINST SOLITARY, IN SOLIDARITY**
**Author: Lukas Flippo**
**Page number(s): cover, 20**
Putting faces to the fight against solitary confinement in Connecticut.


**Title: STANDARDS**
**Author: Daniel Inojosa**
**Page number(s): 26**
points of departure


**Title: THE BLUE HOUSE**
**Author: Eric Krebs**
**Page number(s): 32**



**Title: THIS FLIGHT TONIGHT**
**Author: Dereen Shirnekhi**
**Page number(s): 39**


**Title: A SATURDAY AT LUCIBELLO'S ITALIAN PASTRY SHOP**
**Author: Hannah Qu**
**Page number(s): 16**
photo essay


**Title: LESSONS FROM A FRACTURED LEGACY**
**Author: Paola Santos**
**Page number(s): 7**
book review


**Title: THE GALLERY IS CLOSED**
**Author: Abbey Kim**
**Page number(s): 19**
aside


**Title: ABeCeDarian IN E MAJOR**
**Author: Beasie Goddu**
**Page number(s): 25**
poems


**Title: DIVING IN TWICE**
**Author: Ella Goldblum**
**Page number(s): 41**



**Title: The Blue House**
**Author: Phoebe Liu**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 4
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
Late one night, we walked across the uneven floors 
of the building at 320 Temple Street, past hissing radi­
ators and up a creaky, carpeted staircase. My friends 
and I were desperate to find a last-minute music prac­
tice space. The rooms­—harshly lit, with paint peeling 
from the walls and carpet fraying at the edges—con­
tained shiny Steinways and sleek black music stands. 
As we filled the long, exhausted halls with the music 
of composers living and dead, I found myself thinking 
about the tattered building’s past—possibly glorious, 
possibly unremarkable, before time wore it down.
The house that sits at 320 Temple Street, between 
Silliman College and the Slifka Center, may have a 
baby blue exterior, but it’s far from its infancy. The 
building has stood here for two hundred years, always 
in use, with an identity spanning everything from 
private residence to alumni meetinghouse. Yale has 
owned the building for a century. But since March 
2020, it has stood there unoccupied, its facade eroding 
and its future uncertain.
“There was bright blue paint coming off the walls, 
a really decrepit staircase and shitty carpet in the Blue 
House,” said Charles Comiter, who graduated from 
Yale College in 2020 and worked as a monitor in the 
building in the 2019-20 academic year, the most recent 
year Yale School of Music actively used the building. 
Comiter said he thought of the building as a house 
steeped in 1800s wealth that, over the years, has aged 
into an “old and decrepit random building” known to 
fewer and fewer people. After all, most of the emails I 
sent—to dozens of students, staff, and other members 
of the Yale community—were met with variations of  
“We have no recollection of using this building” or “I 
wish I had information, but I don’t.”
Cellist Francis Fedora ’24 described the building 
similarly: “It's a little spooky, especially late at night…
and also the creaks.” He imagined that the building 
may have had a past as an orphanage, and he spoke 
with fondness of late-night practice sessions in the 
building. His slow intonation work, focused perfor­
mance practice, and messy sight-reading all felt delir­
ious to him, surreal memories that revitalized hollow 
rooms with the sounds of midnight music and laugh­
ter.
Comiter and Fedora both imagined the building’s 
pasts in ways that were only partially correct but 
wholly constructed from memories and archetypes. 
The tale of a storied building can never be much more 
than interweaving lines of blurred memory, faded 
photographs, and yellowed documents.
According to one such document, a listing in the 
New Haven Preservation Trust, the building was 
built in 1806 and became a patchwork quilt of Fed­
eral style and French Empire architectures. A com­
bination of Yale Library archives, old issues of the 
Yale Alumni Magazine, and books published by the 
University Press reveal additional information: The 
building’s first known resident was Rev. Jedidiah 
Morse, an American Congregational minister often 
known as the father of geography and the father of 
Samuel Morse, of Morse Code and Morse College 
fame, who lived there as a child. The building under­
went its first renovation in the eighteen-sixties, then 


--- Page 5 ---
cycled through three owners and one more remod­
eling until Yale University purchased it in the early 
nineteen-twenties. In the decades that followed, it 
served as a dorm for Yale freshmen, then for women 
graduate students. It was the Yale Alumni House from 
1958-1975, and subsequently housed the Department 
of Religious Studies until 2001, at which point its 
ownership shifted to the School of Music. For the past 
twenty years, the building has been a liminal space for 
the music school community, functioning as an extra 
practice, instruction, and social space when other 
buildings were being renovated or under construc­
tion.
Another tattered document, a floor plan from the 
mid-20th century stored in Yale’s Manuscripts and 
Archives, shows that a first-floor room facing Tem­
ple Street was once Rev. Morse’s kitchen, but became 
one of the few rooms at the School of Music with 
more than one grand piano, for students to practice 
duets and concerti. Bedrooms turned into practice 
rooms—spaces that, according to Comiter, were often 
frequented by graduate students during the day and 
undergraduates at night. The old porcelain bathtubs 
were covered with wooden planks and locked shut. 
Somehow, through the decades of ringing and bang­
ing—from clashing cymbals, clinking piano keys, and 
whooshing clarinets—the house retained its shape as 
a house.
Now, according to J. Lloyd Suttle, Yale’s vice pro­
vost for academic resources, the Provost’s Office is in 
discussions with Robert Blocker, Dean of the Yale 
School of Music, about the future of 320 Temple.
According to Stefanie Parkyn, the Chief of Staff of 
the School of Music, the music school has “vacated 
the building” as of this year and is not actively using 
it. But Suttle said that “no decisions have been made 
about the future use of 320 Temple,” if and when the 
building is officially unassigned from the School of 
Music. Yale could essentially do anything it wants to 
the building in terms of physical modifications, said 
Alex Eginton, director of the New Haven Preserva­
tion Trust.
Fedora spoke about the long hallway on the build­
ing’s first floor, a hallway that extends past what 
was once, according to University floor plans from 
the nineteen-seventies, a “RESIDENCE SUITE” 
and “BED ROOM” for the house’s “MANAGE­
MENT COUPLE,” a staircase, two bedrooms, and 
three porches. In its seeming endlessness the hallway 
is evocative of the building’s long past and obscure 
future.
“I never went down the bottom hallway,” Fedora 
said. “It scared me for some reason. It was just so … 
long.”
I’ve never ventured all the way down, either, and I 
don’t know if I’ll ever get that chance. For now, the 
building will continue to occupy the same plot of land 
it has claimed for two centuries. Its floorboards will 
keep creaking, the paint on its walls will keep peeling, 
flake by flake, and its pianos will remain in purgatory.
Phoebe Liu is a senior in Trumbull College.


**Title: This Flight Tonight**
**Author:  (Author not specified)**
**Page number(s): 6**

 6
I missed three trains. In the underground network 
of Penn Station, I befriended a man from the Virgin 
Islands as we both failed to find the same platform. We 
were in matching black coats, and the two of us each 
assumed the other was a native New Yorker. He asked 
me for directions one floor below the voided track, 
where the thick train air settled and shoved warmth 
through our coats. I could not hear him; humidity 
muffled his voice. Together we sat on the second C 
train uptown, after the first left without us, and rode 
the fifty minutes to Queens from Midtown Manhat­
tan. He rode one stop further than I, and we waved as 
I left the emptied train before him. 
My flight from New York to Salt Lake City departed 
and passed without disruption. I seemed to close my 
eyes and wake up above the glowing grid that was 
Utah. On the ground I saw my father again—I hadn’t 
seen him since Thanksgiving. He only knows how 
to communicate through email, and I’m not fantastic 
at checking mine. He flew from Los Angeles, which 
we’ve both called home our whole lives. Salt Lake 
City was not our destination. It was a pit-stop on the 
way to visiting my mother’s side of the family for the 
holidays. They live in Bigfork, Montana—in the razed 
northwestern glacial floodplains of the Flathead Val­
ley, just a couple hours south of the Canadian border. 
On the flight with him, I fell and out of sleep. 
Our plane was delayed two hours because of a snow­
storm in the valley; he shook me awake before we 
landed and ordered me to tighten my seatbelt. The 
slight fear in his voice rose and fell and, above his 
mask, the light of his computer shone in his reading 
glasses. He remarked that landings on snowy runways 
are rough. Be prepared, he said. 
It was about 1:30 a.m when the pilot gurgled some­
thing over the loudspeaker. The seatbelt sign was on, 
and with the adjacent “wifi” and “no smoking” icons, 
the roof of the plane was patterned in red, white, and 
blue light trios. My dad returned to his crossword, 
switched seats with me so I could watch the snowfall 
out the window. He’s touching retirement now. 
Here, flying above the distant, agricultural regions 
of the Rockies, sodium vapor gas bulbs lit sparse barns 
down below. In the summer, farmers sow the fields 
with canola seeds and harvest the flowers to make 
oil. The ochre halos dimmed under the night-grayed 
blanket of snow. With each rush of wind on the plane, 
my anxiety seized and convinced me that this was the 
end. Soon, it said, we will join the rusted lights in the 
snow. Soon, there will be the most fantastic crash on 
that rural runway platform. 



**Title: ASIDE**
**Author: PAOLA SANTOS**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Before my rescheduled jumble of omicron-in­
duced flights home, my last night in New Haven 
involved a midnight GHeav BLT, an emerald 
green puffer, and a fifteen minute trip to the 
YUAG. Well, more like a fifteen minute farewell 
shuffle that doubled as a 1.5 speed docent tour for 
my friends, who mistakenly trusted me to check 
the museum’s closing time (it’s earlier on Satur­
days). I am certain my experience is not a unique 
one. If you find yourself in this position when the 
YUAG reopens, relish the pre-closing quiet. Pay 
your respects to the wooden Urhobo maternity 
figure on the ground floor, the one that toddlers 
love to hug. Glide through the Greco-Roman 
atrium and take the elevator to the fourth story. 
Stop by Marie Watts’ pink and blue patchwork 
on the prey and predators of land. Remind 
yourself that it’s February by heading out to the 
sculpture terrace. Eight minutes before closing, 
security will inform you that the stairs are to your 
left. Amidst the chirps of a walkie-talkie-like 
communication system, you will realize you have 
overstayed your welcome. Much to Ben Stiller’s 
chagrin, the security team will make sure you do 
not spend the night at the YUAG. 

We landed safely. I reminded myself that I’m older 
now. That fear felt childlike. Sleepless passengers 
trudged past the relic construction machines shut 
down for the storm. The orange light glowed on the 
excavator’s teeth, and my dad wondered what they’re 
building. We passed through the three-gate airport—
my mom waited for us on the other side—she flew 
out before us to see her parents. It was then two in 
the morning, and she ran to me before I could see her 
through the condensed exhaust clouds from the car. 
The gas burned in my nose.

She left the doors open, as she always does, and 
music swelled from the dashboard speakers. Her arms 
spread around me. I remembered I hadn’t been good 
about answering her calls. It was the end of my first 
semester in college, the longest I’d ever been away. 
I see her image now, still, singing and jumping—
she looks at me and belts Neil Diamond’s “Girl, You’ll 
Be a Woman Soon.” Her voice buzzes contralto. The 
car feels warm inside. The song plays. It ends: 
“Girl, you'll be a woman soon
Please, come take my hand.”
Cleo Maloney is a first-year in Silliman College.



**Title: THE  NEW  JOURNAL**
**Author: SAVANNAH CRICHTON**
**Page number(s): 8**

DESIGN BY SAVANNAH 
CRICHTON
PHOTOS BY TIM TAI



**Title: the pandemic next time**
**Author: Eric Krebs**
**Page number(s): 9**

“Everyone who is born holds 
dual citizenship, in the kingdom 
of the well and in the kingdom of 
the sick. Although we all prefer to 
use only the good passport, soo­
ner or later each of us is obliged, at 
least for a spell, to identify oursel­
ves as citizens of that other place.” 
In 1975, three years before she 
published Illness as Metaphor, the 
book that contains the pair of 
sentences above, Susan Sontag 
learned that she was dying of can­
cer. Sontag wrote to eviscerate 
the ubiquitous metaphors (ill­
ness-as-battle, patient-as-warrior, 
cancer-as-demonic-pregnancy, 
etc.) that surrounded and, in her 
view, obscured our understanding 
of illness. She was concerned not 
with the actual geography of the 
“kingdom of the ill,” the tangible 
experience of life with disease, but 
the “lurid metaphors with which it 
has been landscaped.”

Frank M. Snowden III is a 
political scientist by training and 
medical historian by happens­
tance. In 2007, when he was 
named the chair of Yale’s Program 
in the History of Science and 
Medicine, he quipped to his wife 
that his appointment was a sign 
of how far the program had sunk. 
“I’d just been made the chair, and I 
didn’t have a degree in history, or 
science, or medicine,” he says with 
a smile. Snowden has spent forty 
years studying epidemics and the 
societies in which they occur, 
in other words, the actual—not 
metaphorical—kingdoms of the ill.
Infectious 
diseases 
“are 
as 
important to understanding socie­
tal development as economic cri­
ses, wars, revolutions, and demo­
graphic change,” he writes in the 
introduction to his 2019 tome, 
Epidemics and Society: From the 
Black Death to the Present, a six-
hundred-page synthesis of Snow­
den’s decades of teaching his­
tory undergraduates with limited 
knowledge of science and science 
the 
pandemic 
next time
Frank Snowden, a professor emeritus in Yale’s 
History of Science and Medicine Program, studied 
epidemics and social change for decades. When 
the pandemic hit, his work gained new relevance.



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 10
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
undergraduates 
with 
limited 
knowledge of history.
The theory that unites Snow­
den’s scholarship and pedagogy 
is that epidemics are neither ran­
dom manifestations of biology nor 
punishments from a higher power, 
but equal and opposite reactions to 
the forces of social, economic, and 
political organization in a particu­
lar time and place. Societies create 
their own vulnerabilities to infec­
tious disease, and preventing epi­
demics means recognizing—and 
rectifying—those 
vulnerabilities. 
“Meteorologists can’t tell you how 
strong the winds are going to be, 
and they can’t predict what year 
tion beyond public health institu­
tions and academic journals. That 
was, of course, until two years 
ago—when the sky darkened and 
the wind began to blow.

The seventh cholera pandemic 
was first identified in 1961, in 
Java, Indonesia. The disease spent 
the next decade criss-crossing 
Asia before making its way to the 
Middle East, North Africa, and—
by way of the Mediterranean, in 
1973—Naples, an Italian port city 
so unhygienic that even its resi­
dents thought it a dangerous place 
to live. In September of that year, 
the country,” he concluded. Then 
the outbreak spread to Rome. 
At the time, Frank Snowden 
was a 27 year-old political science 
doctoral student at Oxford, living 
near the Vatican and doing 
research for a dissertation on Ita­
lian fascism. When cholera arrived 
in Rome, Snowden saw its effects 
first hand: stones thrown through 
the windows of cars with Naples 
license plates, produce stands 
overturned, shopkeepers beaten in 
the streets by angry mobs. Social 
upheaval, political strife, vio­
lence—exactly what Snowden had 
come to Italy to study—all engen­
dered by a force he had hardly 
considered before then: disease.

A decade later, Snowden—by 
then, a lecturer in European his­
tory at the University of Lon­
don—was working on a study of 
early twentieth century political 
violence in the South of Italy. But 
while conducting his fieldwork, 
he came across countless referen­
ces to a cholera outbreak in Naples 
and the violent, xenophobic res­
ponses it had provoked. His sour­
ces referenced 1911, but, as far as 
the historical record was concer­
ned, the last major European out­
break (1973 notwithstanding) had 
been in 1892. He went to Naples 
to fill in the gaps.

He began in the city grave­
yard, counting headstones. Then 
he visited the records room of 
Cotunga Hospital—the same hos­
pital in which President Leone 
once warded off evil spirits—and 
found that the 1911 edition of the 
hospital’s annual death registry was 
orders of magnitude thicker than 
the years around it. He combed 
through the research wing’s archi­
ves and uncovered that, in 1911, 
the doctors at Cotugno happened 
to all be studying the same subject: 
cholera. 
it’s coming,” says Snowden, “but 
if you live in the Caribbean, you’d 
be really unwise if you didn’t pre­
pare for a hurricane.”
For decades, Snowden and 
colleagues 
warned 
that 
the 
modern world was critically igno­
rant of the epidemiological storm 
waiting to happen. Their concern, 
however, demanded little atten­
Italian President Giavanni Leone 
visited the city’s Cotugno infec­
tious disease hospital and was pho­
tographed shaking hands with a 
cholera patient while holding the 
corne (rock-and-roll finger horns) 
behind his back, a folklore ges­
ture meant to ward off evil spirits. 
“Naples once again presents the 
mortifying picture of its wounds 
and problems to the attention of 
Snowden's book, Epidemics and Society, published in October 2019, was widely 
recommended by scholars in the field in the first year of the coronavirus pandemic.


--- Page 11 ---
MARCH 2022
 11
“I had the chance to do some­
thing that doesn’t happen very 
often,” Snowden says. “I was able 
to discover an epidemic that had 
no history.” The seed of curio­
sity planted a decade earlier in the 
sticky late summer of 1973 had 
sprouted. Snowden had a story 
on his hands—a forgotten epide­
mic, unanswered questions, and a 
whole lot of science to learn.

“I am committed to the view 
that you can't write the history 
of diseases without understan­
ding how they work,” says Snow­
den. Upon returning to England, 
Snowden spent a sabbatical in the 
Bodleian Library at Oxford, rea­
ding old editions of The Lancet, 
a medical journal. He began with 
the journal’s founding in 1823. 
“It’s something I wouldn’t recom­
mend to anyone,” says Snowden, 
“But it did serve me in good stead.” 
Snowden’s research on Italian 
cholera continued for more than 
a decade, and in 1991 it led him 
back to Yale, where he had been 
an assistant professor in the nine­
teen-seventies. This time, he was 
hired as a scholar with a unique 
dual-command of both scienti­
fic and social history. In 1995, 
he published Naples in the Time 
of Cholera, 1884–1911, the story 
of two outbreaks, why one was 
remembered and the other era­
sed from history, and what they 
revealed about Italian society at 
the tumultuous turn of the cen­
tury.

A decade later, Snowden publi­
shed another book on Italy’s epi­
demic experience, The Conquest 
of 
Malaria: 
Italy, 
1900-1962, 
which covered the country’s six­
ty-year mission to defeat what 
was once its “national disease.” 
The book illustrated the connec­
tions between malaria and twen­
tieth century Italian politics—from 
how antimalarial education helped 
expand trade unions, civil liber­
ties, and women’s rights to the 
German army’s use of malaria as 
a bioweapon in the second world 
war. Conquest was released to cri­
tical acclaim, winning prizes from 
the American Historical Associa­
tion, the American Association for 
the History of Medicine, and the 
Malaria Foundation International.

In 2010, Snowden’s undergra­
duate class “Epidemics in Western 
Society Since 1600” was immorta­
lized on YouTube as a Yale Open 
Course. In the decade since its 
posting, the course has accumu­
lated nearly one hundred forty 
thousand views—half of which 
have been within the last two 
years.

“I would argue that emerging 
diseases are an inherent part of the 
human condition,” Snowden says 
to conclude the course’s final lec­
ture. “And if I were to make just 
one prediction, I would expect 
that there would be more, and 
that the systems set in place and 
improved by SARS, avian flu, and 
Photo albums in Snowden's library.


--- Page 12 ---
 12
poor, the damned, the ragged men 
whose overgrown facial hair tra­
pped the disease and spread it. In 
the nineteen-eighties, HIV/AIDS 
exposed both Western society’s 
vicious contempt for gay men, 
and its blatant indifference to life 
on the African continent.

And, in the early twenty-first 
century, Ebola and SARS illustra­
In March 2020, Snowden  was 
again in Rome, working on a 
long-awaited book about the Cold 
War, when the coronavirus first 
hit Italy. Snowden and his partner 
both contracted Covid, mild cases, 
and confined themselves to quiet 
isolation in their apartment. 
Then Snowden’s phone began 
to ring. 
ted the fundamental vulnerability 
of an interconnected world; the 
false comfort of national borders; 
the “hubris,” as Snowden describes 
it, of a world that both recognized 
the threat of epidemic disease and 
operated as if epidemics—at least, 
the epoch-defining kind—were 
simply behind it.

“I’ve often quipped that there 
are two kinds of doctors: medi­
cal doctors, the useful kind; and 
PhD’s, the useless kind,” Snowden 
says with a grin. “You don’t want 
to wake up in a gurney and see 
Frank standing there.” 
And yet, with the world in a 
swine flu will be tested again in 
our new century.”

Q: What is a disease? A: Who’s 
asking?
“Disease,” 
medical 
historian 
Charles Rosenberg writes in his 
1992 book Explaining Epidemics, 
“is at once a biological event, a 
generation-specific repertoire of 
verbal constructs reflecting medi­
cine's intellectual and institutio­
nal history, an occasion for and 
potential legitimation of public 
policy, an aspect of social role and 
individual—intrapsychic—iden­
tity, a sanction for cultural values, 
and a structuring element in doc­
tor-patient interactions.” 
To study epidemics through 
the historian’s microscope is to 
integrate all of those definitions 
and the murky forces of causality 
between them, to examine how 
the cultural attitudes, political ins­
titutions, and biological mecha­
nisms all shape the course of his­
tory.

The bubonic plague, Snowden 
writes in Epidemics and Society, 
exploited the urban squalor of 
medieval Europe, upset its cultu­
ral and religious conceptions of 
death, and permanently reshaped 
its political, economic, and demo­
graphic makeup. In the late eigh­
teenth century, yellow fever drove 
the French army out of Haiti, and, 
in the early nineteenth, dysentery 
and typhus drove Napoleon and 
the French out of Russia. In the 
latter half of the nineteenth cen­
tury, tuberculosis, in its glacial 
destruction of the body, came to 
signify beauty, pedigree, the lavish 
tragedy of a life too well-lived. 
Half-a-century later, the disease—
reimagined through the innova­
tion of “germ theory”—was trans­
formed into a condition of the 
Frank Snowden at his home in New Haven, CT.



**Title: A Lineage of Success**
**Author: Eric Krebs**
**Page number(s): 13-14**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
MARCH 2022
 13
gurney, more people wanted to 
see Snowden than ever before in 
his life. “I think I was actually ser­
ving not in a medical therapeutic 
way, but in a sort of existential 
therapeutic way,” Snowden says. 
“People found it, in a way, really 
comforting to talk about the past.”
By the end of April, Snowden 
had appeared in the New Yorker, 
mic departments, all desperate to 
ask—“Has this happened before?”

If you ask Frank Snowden to 
whom the name “Frank Snow­
den” really belongs, he might say 
his father, Frank M. Snowden, Jr.: 
esteemed historian of the lives of 
Black people in antiquity; pro­
fessor of classics at Howard Uni­
versity from 1940 to 1976; Dean 
of Howard’s college of liberal arts 
from 1956 to 1968; and cultural 
attaché for the U.S. State Depart­
ment from 1954 to 1956, in Rome.
If you had asked Frank M. 
Snowden, Jr. to whom the name 
“Frank Snowden” really belon­
ged, he might have said his father, 
Frank M. Snowden the first: a son 
of sharecroppers born in 1884 
in Virginia; 1907 graduate of M 
Street High School in Washin­
gton, D.C.; enlistee in the First 
World War; senior Black officer 
at Camp Lee in the second; sma­
ll-scale real estate entrepreneur 
thereafter; and grandfather to 
three grandchildren who referred 
to him only as “Colonel.”
In 1909, Charles W. Eliot—
then president of Harvard Uni­
versity—published a collection of 
fifty books, classic works of litera­
ture, oratory, and history that, as 
he proclaimed in a 1910 adverti­
sement, could “give any man the 
essentials of a liberal education, 
even if he can devote to them but 
fifteen minutes a day.” Colonel 
read them cover-to-cover. And 
while the Harvard Classics served 
him well, he wanted for his chil­
dren a liberal arts education made 
of more than paper. When his son, 
Frank, Jr., approached schooling 
age, Colonel relocated the family 
from Yorktown, Virginia to Bos­
ton, 
Massachusetts—and, 
most 
importantly, the Boston public 
education system. 
At Colonel’s behest, Frank, Jr., 
went to Harvard. In the 1920s, 
Harvard, at the wish of President 
Abbott 
Lawrence 
Lowell—the 
great Dr. Eliot’s successor—had 
re-segregated the College’s dorms, 
so Frank, Jr. commuted to class 
from Roxbury, Massachusetts. He 
would graduate with a bachelor’s 
degree in classics in 1932, a mas­
ters in 1933, and later, a doctorate, 
in 1944. 
By the time of Frank the third’s 
birth in 1946, Frank, Jr.’s appoint­
ment at Howard had already brou­
ght the Snowdens back to Was­
hington. But Colonel’s wish to 
create at any cost a lineage of suc­
cess stories—to personally produce 
some small part of what W.E.B. 
Du Bois (a friend to Frank, Jr.) 
called the “talented tenth” of Black 
leaders—would follow the Snow­
dens far beyond Boston.
At first, Frank the third atten­
ded Lucy Diggs Slowe Elemen­
tary 
School, 
in 
Washington, 
D.C., an all-Black public school. 
When it came time for school to 
get serious, Frank was sent to St. 
Albans, an all-white preparatory 
school—at least until Frank’s arri­
val. Then eleven years old, Frank 
was informed that if he failed at 
St. Albans, the school would never 
admit a Black student again. “It 
gave me this absurd sense that I 
had a whole people riding on my 
shoulders,” says Snowden. “I lear­
ned to work hard, to take studies 
very seriously, and also to bear 
with quite a lot of abuse.”
In 1964, Snowden, realizing the 
patrilineal fate to which he was 
bound, enrolled at Harvard. “I 
thought of going somewhere else,” 
he says. “But I thought my father 
would die of apoplexy.” (Trans­
lation: have a stroke.) During 
Snowden’s four years in college, 
the Wall Street Journal, NPR, Vox, 
the Washington Post, and dozens 
of other American publications. 
Internationally, he spoke with 
journalists from Germany, Argen­
tina, Korea, and Iran. Snowden 
estimates that he took part in some 
150 interviews that year with 
reporters and writers and acade­


--- Page 14 ---

 14
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
Colonel called him once a semester 
just to ask if he had been induc­
ted into Phi Beta Kappa yet. When 
his grandson eventually delivered 
the good news, Colonel replied, 
“That’s good, Frankie. That’s all I 
wanted to know,” before hanging 
up.
Snowden entered college as a 
steadfast “Kennedy Democrat,” the 
hopeful winds of the civil rights 
movement at his back. At first, he 
did not understand the purpose 
behind the bloodshed of the war in 
Vietnam, but there had to be a pur­
pose, however inscrutable. Vio­
lence on that scale does not happen 
without reason, he thought. 
On April 25, 1967, he chan­
ged his mind. Sitting in a Harvard 
auditorium, watching McGeorge 
Bundy—National Security Adviser 
to Presidents Kennedy and John­
son, central architect of the war—
giving non-answer after non-
answer, claiming that he couldn’t 
remember what he had written 
in the Tonkin Gulf Resolution, 
saying that he could not decide 
if, given the chance, he would do 
anything differently in the run-up 
to the wholly optional conflict that 
would go on to claim over eight 
hundred thousand lives.
On April 25, 1967, Snowden 
learned that his father’s self-evi­
dent truth, that America “was 
changing and would get better, 
that America was at-least self-co­
rrecting,” that things necessarily, 
eventually improve, might not be 
so self-evident. 

In the two years since it was 
published, Epidemics and Society 
has been translated into Chinese, 
Greek, Korean, Japanese, Russian, 
Portuguese, Turkish, and Italian. 
To date, the book—a six-hundred-
page academic text published by 
a niche university press—has sold 
over thirty-one thousand copies. 
Snowden is already working on 
another book, also for Yale Press, 
titled COVID-19: Origins of a Glo­
bal Pandemic. 
A page from Epidemics and Society.


--- Page 15 ---

**Title: Metaphors of the Pandemic**
**Page number(s): 15**

 15
In March 2020, when Snow­
den’s tidal wave of interview 
requests began, everyone wanted 
to know: Has this happened before? 
But they also wanted to know 
something else: What next? How 
do pandemics end? “It’s a very mis­
leading question,” says Snowden. 
“My best answer is that there is no 
such thing as pandemics in gene­
ral, and therefore no rule. Each one 
is different, and ends in a different 
way—if indeed it does.”
We have now lived two years 
in the kingdom of the sick and, 
in doing so, have grown used to 
its metaphors, grown comforta­
ble in them. And as that central 
question—How does this end?—has 
grown more pressing, we have 
seen a new set of metaphors crop 
up: COVID as the loss of twen­
ty-first century innocence, the 
pandemic as a modern day Pan­
dora’s Box, the wet-market bat as 
Eve’s apple in the Garden of Eden, 
too-little-too-late containment as 
original sin—all reconstructing the 
pandemic as a moral, not epide­
miological event.
“​We have to use metaphors, but 
we need to be very careful about 
which ones and think carefully 
about what we're implying,” says 
Snowden. The COVID-as-plague 
metaphor—a metaphor so com­
mon that we’ve all but forgotten 
that plague is a real disease and not 
a category—is a prime offender. 
So too are the societal-ill-as-pla­
gue comparisons (racism-as-di­
sease, traffic accidents-as-plague, 
etc.) that have been en vogue since 
March 2020. “Traffic accidents are 
not a freak of nature, they are a 
product of design,” says Snowden. 
“It gives an entirely wrong diag­
nosis of the problem.”
Frank Snowden is not Nostrada­
mus. The prediction that he made 
at the end of his lecture in 2010—
that we were likely to see another 
epidemic in this century, and that 
it would likely be an airborne 
disease, something like avian flu or 
SARS—was not divination. It was 
extrapolation. 
Snowden, for one, is among 
the crowd that believes that we 
“cannot go back” to life before 
COVID-19. And though he turns 
to metaphor—particularly the Gar­
den of Eden—to make sense of it, 
his reasoning is not metaphorical. 
Only one disease has ever been 
eradicated by human action: small­
pox. COVID-19 is a highly infec­
tious, airborne disease with animal 
reservoirs, frequent mutations, and 
access to an irreversibly intercon­
nected world—in other words, “a 
very poor candidate for eradica­
tion,” Snowden says.
If not eradication, then what? 
There is a version of the future in 
which we listen to Frank Snow­
den’s answer. In the short run, 
we vaccinate everyone, mask and 
social distance as needed, improve 
ventilation in our buildings, and 
reduce our encroachment upon 
animal habits and reservoirs of 
disease. In the long run, we manage 
COVID for the most part, stamp 
out flare-ups, and bolster our glo­
bal institutions to effectively limit 
outbreaks of new diseases. We, in 
Snowden’s words, “take responsi­
bility for the world we’ve created.” 
Epidemics are neither moral nor 
metaphorical events; they hold all 
the significance we assign them 
and nothing more. “Diseases have 
no agency,” says Snowden. “They 
depend on us.”
There is a version of the future 
in which we listen to Frank Snow­
den, in which we do all of the 
things he suggested, and there is a 
version of the future in which we 
do none of them. There is a version 
that falls somewhere in between, 
where we slouch neither towards 
utopia nor armageddon, where we 
land neither in the kingdom of the 
sick nor the kingdom of the well 
but in the place between them, 
the place where—as history and 
Snowden would suggest—we’ve 
always resided.
Eric Krebs is a senior in Jonathan 
Edwards College.



**Title: Demolishing Oak Street**
**Author: Deleen Shirneki**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
“W
hat was Oak Street like?” 
former New Haven mayor 
Richard Lee asks his viewers in a 
short film made by his campaign 
in the nineteen-sixties. The film 
is black and white, stored in the 
Manuscripts and Archives depart­
ment at Yale, and shows the 
changes made to Oak Street under 
Lee’s administration. “It's almost 
impossible to describe how awful 
it was.”

In the film, Lee provides the 
voiceover as aerial footage of Oak 
Street, which divides the Hill 
neighborhood from downtown, 
before and after his administra­
tion’s urban renewal projects plays 
across the screen. In the foot­
age from before renewal, a man 
sleeps on the street, trash is scat­
tered around, and the camera peers 
inside dark, old-fashioned homes. 
Lee mourns the fact that there 
were people living subpar lives in a 
community that he believes should 
have been cleared out years ago. 
In the “after” footage, the homes 
and buildings are gone, replaced 
by clean but desolate streets. Lee 
praises plans for new commercial 
buildings, new apartments and 
the headquarters of a telephone 
company. He describes the new 
highway, efficient and conducive 
to long-distance travel, in place of 
the area’s once-crowded streets. 
When the old buildings finally 
fell, Lee says he thought of the 
early settlers, who tore down trees 
hundreds of years ago and cleared 
this land for “a better tomorrow.” 
In Lee’s view, mid-century urban 
renewal projects like this one 
were a continuation of the proj­
ect begun in colonial times, where 
destruction was justified to make 
way for progress. 

In 1959, the city, under Lee’s 
leadership, began construction of 
the Route 34 Expressway, collo­
quially referred to as the Oak Street 
Connector. This stretch of high­
way was intended to extend Route 
34 from Interstate 95 through New 
Haven. Construction continued 
through the nineteen-seventies 
until federal funding dried up. 
Now, the Connector is stuck at a 
mile long, leading nowhere.

Oak Street is a part of the greater


Sixty years ago, New Haven destroyed a community to build an 
expressway. Now, the City has set its sights on Oak Street again.


**Title: MARCH 2022**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
MARCH 2022
 17
Hill neighborhood, and its demo­
lition displaced 881 families, most 
of whom were working class, 
and 350 businesses. Renters could 
receive support from the city’s 
relocation services in finding new 
housing, but the requirement that 
it be affordable and of reasonable 
quality meant that some families 
were forced to move to neighbor­
hoods far from their communities. 
Homeowners received the market 
value of their property, but prop­
erty values plummeted when news 
broke of the urban renewal proj­
ects and people stopped investing 
in the area. Most businesses simply 
shut down, as they received little 
compensation and were no longer 
guaranteed the customer base that 
had made them successful.  
Many families chose to find their 
new homes without the help of the 
city, so it’s difficult to know where 
they ended up. Francesca Ammon 
is a historian of urban renewal at 
the University of Pennsylvania, 
and during our interview, she said 
that most former Oak Street resi­
dents who could be tracked ended 
up in physically better housing, 
but were less happy. “They had 
trouble making friends and missed 
where they had been,” she said. 
“And that’s a typical story across 
the country.” 
Another renewal project in 
Wooster Square displaced Theresa 
Argento’s first-generation Italian 
American family. Her family relo­
cated to the Annex neighborhood 
in New Haven, but it never felt 
quite right, she explained during 
recorded testimony in the New 
Haven Oral History Project. “It 
was lovely. We had all the mead­
ows. It was really beautiful and 
my mother was so unhappy. So 
unhappy. She thought we took her 
to California.”
The Connector’s construction 
destroyed communities and didn’t 
yield the economic benefits offi­
cials thought it would—in large 
part because it was never com­
pleted. It cut off the Hill neigh­
borhood from the rest of down­
town, and the neighborhood’s 
economy suffered both as a result 
of Oak Street’s demolition and the 
neighborhood’s effective isolation 
from the rest of the city. The Hill 
remains one of the poorest neigh­
borhoods in New Haven, with a 
poverty rate above 40 percent. 
Now, decades after residents’ 
lives were uprooted, the city is 
trying to rectify the harm inflicted 
by the Oak Street Connector. 
The Downtown Crossing Project 
began under former mayor John 
Destefano, Jr.’s administration in 
2013, and its goal is to remove the 
truncated highway and transform 
it into walkable and bikeable bou­
levards. 
But no amount of retroactive aid 
can undo the damage done to those 
displaced by the city’s decision to 
prioritize 
wealthy 
suburbanites 
commuting to the city for com­
merce over the inner-city, work­
ing-class residents of Oak Street. 
The community included many 
Italian and Jewish immigrants, as 
well as a number of Black families. 
Samuel Slie, who died in 2019 at 
the age of 93 and was a pastor at 
the Church of Christ in Yale Uni­
versity, spoke about his childhood 
on Oak Street for the New Haven 
Oral History Project. In the tape, 
he discusses how his family lived 
on the second floor of a house with 
a tailor shop on the bottom floor, 
owned by a Jewish man with an 
Irish assistant. He described the 
schools, houses, stores, factories, 
Oak Street before demolition, c. 1950-1960. Courtesy of the Yale Library 
Historical New Haven Digital Collection




**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 18
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
and people. “I stress that to say we 
were all growing up together,” he 
said, “kids with all these different 
families.”

Sam Teitelman, who died in 
2021, described the community in 
his own tape. “Everybody seemed 
to know everybody else,” he said. 
He and his family were Russian 
immigrants, and they were all 
quickly accepted into one of the 
many synagogue communities in 
the area. “You’d have meat mar­
kets, and grocery stores, and a 
shoe store, and a clothing store, 
and there was a very large grocery 
operation, fruits and vegetables 
and groceries.” 

“Now, of course, it's just that 
gulf of access space for modern 
transportation,” Samuel Slie said. 
Urban renewal, he said, became 
urban removal. The city became 
more segregated, public housing 
was torn down, and the people 
who fought against it were usually 
unsuccessful. “They took the heart 
of the middle class out of the city.”
Francesca 
Ammon 
dedicates 
a chapter of her book Bulldozer: 
Demolition and Clearance of the 
Postwar Landscape—the first schol­
arly account of the history of the 
bulldozer—to the history of urban 
renewal in New Haven. She writes 
that New Haven received more 
urban renewal grants per capita 
than any other city in the country, 
and in the nineteen-sixties, the 
city destroyed one out of every six 
dwelling units. 

Richard Lee, the former mayor, 
spearheaded urban renewal in 
New Haven. He embraced the 
opportunity to be at the fore­
front of progress, and happily took 
part in photoshoots in which he 
would sit in the operator’s cab of 
a wrecking crane, surrounded by 
demolition. 

This process of urban renewal, 
even outside of New Haven, 
implies an inherent contradic­
tion. Progress and renewal require 
demolition. When the city builds 
a highway, it razes neighborhoods 
to the ground. Prosperity in the 
form of modernization is made 
possible by rubble and bulldozers, 
or a wrecking ball tearing through 
the wall of an old tenement build­
ing. In the Oak Street commu­
nity, those homes were filled with 
working class Jewish, Italian, and 
Black families, who suddenly had 
to find a new place to live—a place 
that never quite felt like home. It’s 
difficult to believe what happened 
here to be progressive when an 
entire community was erased. 

John DeStefano, Jr., who was 
mayor of New Haven from 1994 
until 2016, mentioned in our 
interview that Richard Lee had 
been a friend of his. I asked how 
Lee later felt about the decisions 
he made regarding urban renewal 
in New Haven, after seeing its 
effects. 

DeStefano 
paraphrased 
something he’d heard Lee say 
much later in his life: “‘Our ambi­
tions were glorious, and our fail­
ures were spectacular.’” DeStefano 
thinks Lee had good intentions, 
even though DeStefano’s own 
grandmother’s house was demol­
ished in the process. 

“There was this moment in 
America,” he said, “where cities 
and rebuilding cities were central 
to the national political dialogue, 
which it is not now.”

In 2013, phase one of the 
Downtown 
Crossing 
Project 
(DCP) began. The project orig­
inated during DeStefano’s may­
oral administration in the early 
two-thousands. By this point, 
urban renewal was widely seen by 
both residents and city officials as 
a mistake. 

“[The Connector] created this 
linear wall that people didn't 
walk across,” DeStefano told me, 
when I asked why he found the 
DCP necessary. The construction 
of the Connector created what 
is effectively a dead end, he said, 
where people don’t feel comfort­
able walking. “Commerce didn't 
thrive.”  
Oak Street before and after construction of the Connector, c. 1960. Courtesy of 
the Yale Library Historical New Haven Digital Collection



**Title: ABeCeDarian IN E MAJOR**
**Author: ABBEY KIM**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
After dark it is easier to see
Burning
Cities with ice
Dancing just out of reach.
Everyone is an element, afraid to
Fuse, compound or
Group together, instead we are inert
Helium, only wanting to float up
Into air.
Jealousy is rust and it
Kisses sweet oxygen which 
Lingers because it is
More than
Noble.
Opening eyes is as hard as
Plasma solidifying into
Quilts of passionate stillness, and while
Rubber bands pull and snap,
Staying put is harder. Electrons
Taste like lemon, smile like
Under-eye bags, sound like
Vacuums scraping up shards of
White painted porcelain.
Xenon is noble, we all want to be noble, but 
You are different, you melt and mold and 
Zero me down to nothing.


**Title: Downtown Crossing Project**
**Author: Not specified**

Through phase one and phase 
two of the Downtown Crossing 
Project, the city has been able to 
make more taxable property avail­
able for development while slowly 
beginning the process of highway 
removal. Soon, Orange Street 
and South Orange Street will be 
connected by a pedestrian and 
low-speed vehicle friendly inter­
section. Once the federal govern­
ment agrees to fund phases three 
and four, Temple Street and Con­
gress Avenue will be fully con­
nected. 

“It is the goal to provide eco­
nomic 
development 
opportu­
nities for people that live in the 
surrounding 
neighborhoods, 
including the Hill,” Donna Hall, 
the senior project manager of 
the Downtown Crossing Project, 
told me. The idea is that the new 
accessibility of the area will allow 
residents to be more mobile and 
connected to the rest of the city. 
It hasn’t been easy. “It took years 
of negotiation and study with the 
Federal 
Highway 
Administra­
tion,” she said, to ensure the city 
could build the intersection and 
still accommodate traffic. 

The website for the project 
reserves space to discuss the Oak 
Street community and the city’s 
role in its demolition. Under the 
“history” tab, there is a description 
of the diverse families who lived 
on Oak Street, and an acknowl­
Through phase one and 
phase two of the Downtown 
Crossing Project, the city 
has been able to make 
more taxable property 
available for development 
while slowly beginning 
the process of highway 
removal.

edgement that the city priori­
tized automobility over commu­
nity cohesion. The maker of the 
website has included a photo that 
emphasizes Oak Street’s “before” 
and “after”—but the destruction 
isn’t a source of pride like it is in 
Richard Lee’s short film. 

The Downtown Crossing Proj­
ect is an attempt to rectify some 
of the harm inflicted by urban 
renewal. But for the hundreds of 
families expelled from Oak Street, 
and for the countless other work­-
ing-class residents of New Haven 
whose lives and livelihoods were 
upended by urban renewal, it’s an 
attempt that comes sixty years too 
late. 

Dereen Shirnekhi is a junior in 
Davenport College and an Associate 
Editor of The New Journal.


**Title: IN GOOD FAITH**
**Author: ELENA DeBRE**
**Page number(s): 20**

Veterans discharged without honor are 
searching for an upgrade. 
A group of students at Yale Law School
 wants to help them find it.


**Title: A Scarlet Letter**
**Page number(s): 21**

MARCH 2022
 21
A Scarlet Letter 
Thomas Burke has lost his faith. 
Not in God—Burke is now a pas­
tor in the Norfield Congregational 
Church in Weston, Connecticut—
but in his country, and the insti­
tution through which he served 
it: the U.S. Marine Corps. Their 
motto reads: “Semper Fidelis,” or 
“Always Faithful.” But when the 
Marines failed him, releasing him 
with a bad case of Post-Traumatic 
Stress Disorder (PTSD) and a bad 
paper discharge, his faith in the 
Marines failed in return.
Burke, who looks like the dop­
pelganger of Ted Lasso from the 
eponymous TV show, enlisted in 
the First Battalion Third Marines 
out of Kaneohe Bay, Hawaii right 
after graduating from high school 
in 2007. He served for three years, 
first in Iraq and then in Afghan­
istan, where he learned the local 
language of Pashto and developed 
close relationships with the boys 
who lived near the base. The boys 
would help Burke and his pla­
toon, letting them know where 
bombs were hidden and bringing 
them any they located. One day, 
a group of kids was walking over 
to visit Burke at basecamp to hand 
over a rocket-propelled grenade 
they had found, when he heard a 
blast. The grenade had exploded. 
Burke watched eight of the kids 
he had befriended die. 
“They died right in front of 
me,” Burke says. “I started smok­
ing a lot of hash to kind of deal 
with that. And the military, the 
Marine Corps, didn't really like 
that too much.” Right before 
his seven-month deployment in 
Afghanistan ended, and he was 
due to return to his station in 
Hawaii, Burke was drug tested. 
It came back positive for mari­
juana. The military, in theory, 
has a zero-tolerance policy on 
drugs. Enforcement, though, is 
at the discretion of a platoon’s 
commander.  “There's this view 
of zero tolerance for drugs in the 
military,” Daniel Conway, a mil­
itary defense lawyer says. “But 
the application trickles down 
from leadership.” Burke’s unit 
commander responded by giving 
Burke an Other-than-Honorable 
discharge, or what is known in the 
military as bad paper. 
“There are three administrative 
separations a servicemember can 
receive,” a Department of Defense 
Instruction source tells me. They 
are: Honorable, the most common 
and highest designation; Gen­
eral-under-Honorable-Condi­
tions for minor misconduct; and 
Other-than-Honorable, which is 
given in lieu of a court martial, 
and amounts, essentially, to expel­
ling a soldier from duty. “Those 
are discharges that would defi­
nitely put a bit of a scarlet letter 
on you. You don’t get them if you 
didn’t, in the eyes of the military 
at least, misbehave in some way. 
Or [do] something that the mili­
tary condemns,” Brad Carson, the 
former United States Under Sec­
retary of the Army under Barack 
Obama tells me. These behaviors 
are still often relatively minor 
offenses, such as failing a drug test 
or exhibiting a pattern of miscon­
duct, like being late to work three 
times. “They’re definitely stigma­
tizing,” Carson continues. And 
the implications are damning.
Burke’s Other-than-Honorable 
discharge meant he was deprived 
of receiving any benefits he could 
have been awarded for his service. 
This includes healthcare from the 
Veterans Association (VA) and 
post-secondary education from 
the G.I. Bill. Other-than-Hon­
orably discharged veterans are 
often the ones who need mental 
health treatment the most. In a 
Boston Medical Center Psychiatry 
study of U.S. Marines deployed to 
Iraq and Afghanistan, research­
ers found that those with a PTSD 
diagnosis were eleven times more 
likely to have a misconduct dis­
charge than those without. Deci­
sions, for those who rank below 
officer, about whether misconduct 
is worthy of a less-than-Honor­
able discharge or not, and who 
gets blacklisted from VA benefits 
as a result, are made by the ranks 
of commanders, with no tribunal 
or oversight by higher-ups, docu­
ments of published military guide­
lines as well as conversations with 
sources reveal. 
“There was no judge. There 
was no jury. It was just some guy 
who’s a middle-aged dude who 
just didn’t like me, and made a 
decision to fuck me over for the 
rest of my life,” Burke says.
Despite his PTSD and his lack 
of access to resources to treat 
it, Burke has built a new life for 
himself in the twelve years since 
his discharge. He graduated from 
Yale Divinity School. He became a 
pastor. But his discharge status still 
scars him. “An Other-than-Hon­
orable discharge makes it seem 
like I'm this other-than-honorable 
person, especially in a culture that 
really celebrates heroic service in 
the military so much. This not 
just erases my service, but it is a 
negative and a pejorative on who 
I am,” Burke explains. While he 
acknowledges it’s possible to seek 
counseling for PTSD, he adds, 
“You can't work through an Oth­
er-than-Honorable discharge in 
therapy. Because no matter how 
far I get, no matter what healing I 
do, I always have this stupid piece 



**Title: Rushing and Random Decisions, Life-Altering Ramifications**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 22
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
of paper, this administrative bull­
shit, that keeps me from healing.”
Healing emotionally from the 
discharge may never be pos­
sible, but there is one way to 
bureaucratically erase the Oth­
er-than-Honorable discharge des­
ignation: applying to a discharge 
review board. Veterans of the 
Navy and Marines who believe 
they have been unfairly discharged 
can submit an application to the 
Naval Discharge Review Board 
(NDRB) and ask them to recon­
sider their discharge status. The 
Army and Airforce have their own 
boards. Last September, Burke put 
together a 70-page file to present 
to the NDRB. In October, Burke 
received his decision, in the form 
of a one-page response. “They 
just said, ‘Nope,’” Burke says. He 
wonders if they even read his file. 
“I'm a pastor of a church, and I 
went to Yale. And I'm not getting 
an upgrade, because I watched lit­
tle kids get blown up and smoked 
pot,” he says. “So, if I’m in this 
situation, I got to think that other 
applicants are much worse off than 
me.” 
Over 500,000 veterans are liv­
ing with Other-than-Honorable 
discharges. The NDRB rejects 85 
percent of discharge status upgrade 
requests, according to documents 
the Navy released in the 2016 set­
tlement of a Freedom of Informa­
tion Act lawsuit filed by two mil­
itary justice organizations against 
the Department of Defense. The 
military discharge review boards, 
according to guidelines instituted 
by then-Defense Secretary Chuck 
Hagel in 2014, now referred to 
as the Hagel memo, are asked to 
give “liberal consideration” to 
cases where service-related men­
tal health issues, like PTSD, could 
have contributed to the veter­
an’s behavior and led to the dis­
ciplinary discharge. But stories 
like Burke’s suggest that this isn’t 
playing out in reality.

Yale Law Jumps In
On March 2, 2018, the Yale Law 
School (YLS) Veteran Legal Ser­
vices Clinic filed a suit against the 
U.S. Navy, alleging its discharge 
review board process does not 
follow the Pentagon’s standards 
of giving “liberal consideration” 
to PTSD-related cases. On Octo­
ber 12, 2021, the court approved 
the Navy and YLS’s joint settle­
ment agreement—referred to as 
the Manker settlement, named 
after lead plaintiff Tyson Manker. 
A final fairness hearing for the 
case was held on December 16th. 
Now, a judge is reviewing the 
terms of the class action agree­
ment and determining whether 
the settlement will be finalized by 
the court.
In December 2021, Burke was 
hoping to join the settlement class 
of the Manker case. The settle­
ment’s terms stipulate that the 
NDRB would have to reevaluate 
the rejections of class members, 
with careful consideration given 
to mental health when relevant. 
Even though joining the settle­
ment class still wouldn’t guarantee 
an upgrade for Burke, it would 
bring him closer than he ever has 
been to receiving one. 
A source for the Navy’s defense 
asserts that commanders put careful 
consideration into their discharge 
delineation. “The commander isn’t 
making the decision in a vacuum. 
There are lots of touch points that 
the commander uses,” the source 
says. But, the source explained in a 
conversation, discharge decisions 
are at times being made under 
the extenuating circumstances of 
war, which may have an influ­
ence on the decision. “An officer 
separating out an enlisted person 
might be making that decision 
with limited information, under 
stress, while managing a battle,” 
the source says. Commanders 
always have to be focused on mis­
sion readiness—making sure their 
unit is ready for battle—and have 
to take action when someone isn’t 
serving the unit. From that per­
spective, there is little room for 
misbehavior. 
“Right here in New Haven, 
we have impacted the 
whole nation” 
“Yale’s veterans clinic has been 
a tremendous leader in mili­
tary law,” says Eugene Fidell, a 
nationally recognized military law 
expert, a Senior Research Scholar 
at YLS, and an Adjunct Professor 
of Law at NYU Law School. The 
Hagel memo itself, which brought 
mental health considerations into 
discharge review cases, came out 
of a case filed by YLS. A settlement 
with the Army Discharge Review 
Board, which rejects 45 percent 
of discharge upgrade applications, 
with terms similar to those in the 
Manker settlement, was finalized 
in April 2021. “So really, right 
here in New Haven, we have 
impacted the whole nation with 
this legislation that has passed,” 
Conley Monk, the lead plaintiff on 
the Hagel case, reflects.
Yale Law School’s first-rank 
reputation in military law may 
come as a surprise, considering 
the current and historical politi­
cal climate at the school. “There 
was a conscious manifestation of 
antiwar sentiment that came from 
the student body and faculty after 
Vietnam.” Fidell explains. “Some 
of that still exists today, but is 
starting to change.” 


---

**Title: Yale Law School and Veterans' Rights**
**Page number(s): 23**

Jane Jacoby, the President of 
the YLS Democrats says that a 
large portion of the student body 
identify as on the left politically. 
“A vast majority of students at the 
Law School would likely describe 
themselves as Democrats. There 
are certainly a large portion of 
students 
that 
would 
describe 
themselves as far-left,” she says. 
Just a quick scroll through YLS’s 
clinical service program offer­
ings sheds insight as to why YLS 
may attract left-leaning students. 
Yale is home to thirty law clin­
ics—groups of students and faculty 
providing pro-bono legal services. 
Every student is required to spend 
one semester doing experien­
tial learning, either working in a 
clinic that tackles real world cases 
or taking a simulation course. 
Most are oriented toward progres­
sive causes, such as reproductive 
rights, LGBTQ rights, and capi­
tal punishment. Students in most 
clinics, like the Veterans Clinic, 
work under their faculty mem­
bers’ bar licenses in order to lead 
and take charge of cases.
Meghan Brooks, a Robert M. 
Cover Fellow at the Yale Veterans 
Clinic, describes the clinical learn­
ing process as, she says, “the same 
sort of idea as rotations at medical 
school.” But, Zoe Masters LAW 
’22, a student in the Fair Hous­
ing clinic, draws a key distinction. 
“If you’re in medical school and 
you’re doing rotations and spe­
cializing in different things, obvi­
ously that’s not political in any 
way. But in law school, the things 
that people choose to work on are 
informed by their view of justice,” 
she says. 
This is why Amelia Dunnell 
LAW ’23, a student lawyer rep­
resenting Tyson Manker in the 
settlement, struggled with her 
decision to work with the YLS 
Veterans Clinic. In her work, she 
feels a tension between her dedica­
tion to her clients and her personal 
skepticism of the military itself. “I 
have my own opinions and value 
judgments on the value of the 
military as a concept,” Dunnell 
says. “A lot of our clients are really 
proud of their military service, 
believe in the value of the military, 
and believe that it's an important 
institution and might not have 
the same criticisms against it that 
I would.” 
Dunnell isn’t the only one who 
has felt this way. Jane Jacoby, 
president of the YLS Democrats, 
knows many students working at 
the Veterans Clinic who would 
identify as Democrats. “That's 
not to say that there are not 
right-leaning members of the Vets 
Clinic. But I do think that veteran 
issues are ones that are important 
to both sides of the aisle. It doesn’t 
map onto partisan politics in the 
way that maybe some other clini­
cal offerings might,” she says. 
J.L. Pottenger, a Nathan Baker 
Clinical Professor of Law and 
Supervising Attorney at YLS, 
believes the clinic is tackling mil­
itary issues for the sake of justice, 
not for the sake of the institution 
itself. “I don't think that the Vet­
erans Clinic is a right-wing clinic. 
I don't think that people who go 
to it are more conservative,” he 
says. “And I don't think the Vet­
erans Clinic is about the values of 
the military or upholding them. 
It’s about trying to make sure that 
the veterans get fair treatment and 
the rights and the benefits that 
they were promised.” 
That’s the philosophy that has 
guided Amelia Dunnell’s work 
with the clinic. “It’s interest­
ing to work with clients whom 
you might have some, what you 
might perceive as, fundamen­
tal disagreements,” she says, “but 
whom you're also really dedicated 
to obtaining justice for, that you 
believe they're entitled to.”



**Title:  Rushed and Random Decisions, Life-Altering Ramifications (Continued)**
**Page number(s): 23-24**

Thomas Burke sees the cases 
coming out of the Yale veterans 
clinic as a beacon of justice in a 
military system that he thinks 
operates with a profound lack of 
it. He hopes the benefits of Yale’s 
legal victories will trickle down to 
his case as well. 
After 
two 
rejections, 
Steve 
Kennedy, the lead plaintiff for 
Yale Veterans Clinic settlement 
Board, was able to get his General 
Discharge upgraded as part of the 
settlement case. Kennedy spent 
fourteen months in Iraq serving 
in the 82nd Airborne Division of 
the U.S. Army. He returned with 
severe PTSD. His deteriorating 
mental health came to a head when 
he was denied permission to leave 
his station for ten days to attend 
his own wedding. Kennedy went 
AWOL (absent without approval). 
He was ultimately discharged 
under General conditions (which 
are considered less-than-Honor­
able). 
“It was really traumatic. For 
me, being in the Army was such a 
huge part of your identity. And to 
have the Army then turn around 
and say your services are less than 
Honorable, it's like you are less 
than Honorable,” Kennedy says. 
“I was already really depressed to 
begin with. And then I was kicked 
out, and after that, I was a mess.” 
But what gave Kennedy hope was 
a rumor that he had heard while 
enlisted, that discharges were easy 
to upgrade. “I heard it’s not a big 
deal. After six months, you just 
apply, they upgrade you, and it’s 
fine. But it’s not true. It’s not true 
at all.” Kennedy applied twice. 
He was denied both times, even 
though his application described 
mental health diagnoses link­
ing his PTSD to his active-duty 
behavior. The second time, he was 
denied on a three-to-two vote. 
Josh Britt LAW ’22 worked on 
Kennedy’s case at the Yale Veter­
ans Clinic. Before Yale, he served 
four years in the Marines Corps. 
While enlisted, he also had heard 
less-than-Honorable 
dis­
charges were a painless upgrade. 
Only when Britt started doing 
military justice work did he real­
ize how far that was from the 
truth. “The perception was that it 
was very easy to get a discharge 
upgrade,” he recalls of his time 
in the Marines. “So, the com­
mander was very quick to award 
discharges. 
He had no sense of their huge 
life-altering ramifications.” Ken­
nedy, in the years since his ser­
vice, has talked to commanders 
who are in the position to delin­
eate discharges. “I’ve heard that 
commanders just don’t appreciate 
what it actually means. You’re not 
thinking about what this person’s 
future looks like. It’s just you have 
to get your unit ready to go and 
this person isn’t working, so you 
send them out.” Kennedy says. 
“You're not thinking, well I bet­
ter make sure this person gets VA 
benefits.”
While there are regulations for 
determining what sort of behav­
ior merits a less-than-Honorable 
discharge, the power lies in a 
commander to enforce it. Guide­
lines provide little standardization, 
and as a result, personal biases 
often influence the decisions. A 
report from Protect Our Defend­
ers, a human rights organization 
focused on protecting vulner­
able service members, revealed 
that Black service members were 
more likely to face military dis­
ciplinary action. “The persistence 
of racial disparities within the 
military may indicate the exis­
tence of racial bias or discrimina­
tion among decision-makers in 
the military justice system,” the 
report concluded. Garry Monk, 
the brother of Conley Monk, who 
was the lead plaintiff in the YLS 
case about the Hagel Memo, and 
who does veteran advocacy work 
in New Haven, says, “It’s like Jim 
Crow in the military, for lack of a 
better word.”



**Title: 'There Are Right Ways to Behave . . .…and Few Excuses Allowed'**
**Page number(s): 24**

‘There Are Right Ways 
to Behave . . .…and Few 
Excuses Allowed’
Brad Carson, a former Under 
Secretary of the Army, has a dif­
ferent view of the process. “The 
military is characterized by a 
strong adherence to standards and 
norms,” he explains. “There are 
right ways to behave. And there 
are few excuses allowed. That’s 
the kind of the culture of the place. 
It’s also a very rule driven place.” 
Discharge decisions are made with 
urgency when the stakes are life 
and death. That’s why the dis­
charge review boards were first 
formed, after World War Two—to 
reconsider decisions made under 
the pressure and haze of wartime 
in the light of civilian life.
The discharge review boards 
do not function like an appellate 
court in the American judicial sys­
tem. There is no jury of randomly 
selected civilians hearing the cases. 
The board is a set of military offi­
cers, some active and some retired, 
all of whom have a strong sense 
of military values, which colors 
how they view cases. “The peo­
ple who are deciding your case are 
the ones who have made a living 
in this system and are comfortable 
in it,” Kennedy remembers think­
ing when he was before the board 
himself. Though the board is 
given guidance from the Depart­
ment of Defense and Congress, 
and has administrative protocol, 
Carson says that there are no stan­
dard publications of guidelines 
that tell the board how to review 
each case. As a result, personal 
biases prevail, along with a strong 
deference towards the unit com­
mander’s original decision. “They 
have a real sense of standards and 
that there are behaviors that should 
get you separated from the mili­
tary with a less-than-Honorable 
discharge. And they believe stan­
dards are important to maintain,” 
Carson says. The stigma against 
PTSD that is felt on the ground in 
the military is felt on the board as 
well. “It’s still a highly testosterone 
culture,” Carson says. “Is there still 
some stigma to saying I’m weak or 
I’m suffering? Yes.”
It’s no wonder then that records 
referenced in the Manker settle­
ment’s original complaint assert 
that the Army Discharge Review 
Board rejects a substantial 45 
percent of cases, and the Naval 
Discharge Review Board rejects 
85 percent of discharge upgrade 
applications. Yet, while those per-



**Title: DIVING IN TWICE**
**Author: BEASIE GODDU**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
“Is this love,” O’Hara wrote, 
“Now that the first love has finally died,
Where there were no impossibilities?”

After you have swum and drowned
Diving in will terrify—
There’s marble at the bottom, dear:
Your bones and heart will break on stone.

but maybe we can float, you say—
Hoping such a thing exists
when broken hearts have come and gone 
and come again. 

You’ll dive in somewhere else, you say
The poet got it wrong— 
There’s one thing left for you to do 
You’ll find another river. 


**Title: Discharge Upgrades: The Military's Broken System**
**Author: Elena DeBre**

MARCH 2022
 25
centages seem high, a source for 
the defense in the Manker case 
says it’s important to remember 
the staggering number of appli­
cations being submitted to the 
boards for review. Over 60,000 
veterans became eligible to reap­
ply to the boards when the Ken­
nedy settlement was finalized, so 
even if the board only accepts 15 
percent of the applicants, that’s 
still nine thousand people who 
are getting discharge upgrades. 
“It’s a false premise that the board 
doesn’t grant a lot of these,” the 
defense source says. “The people 
on the discharge review boards 
want to do the right thing for the 
veteran.”

Sixty thousand applications are 
a lot for the five members of the 
Army Discharge Review Board 
to slog through. The five officers 
currently sitting on the Naval 
Discharge Review Board may 
likely be hit with similar numbers 
once the Manker case is finalized. 
A case like Burke’s, if accepted 
into the settlement class, might 
not be re-evaluated for another 
three years, Burke predicts. The 
review boards are overworked and 
understaffed, Carson explains, so 
an inundation of cases means that 
each one will likely only get a few 
minutes of review, likely leading 
to mistakes and oversights. “It’s so 
difficult to do right, to do justice, 
when you’re giving such brief 
attention to the case,” Carson 
notes.

‘Should They Suffer 
That Penalty For Their  
Remaining Lives?’

This quick decision by the dis­
charge board can have life-altering 
repercussions. A less-than-Hon­
orable discharge strips service­
members of VA benefits and job 
prospects—some hiring managers 
require servicemembers to release 
their discharge status. Experts 
and studies say a less-than-Hon­
orable discharge status is one of 
the strongest factors causing vet­
eran homelessness. Carson thinks 
that re-resourcing the review 
boards may help break the cycle 
of rejection that traps so many 
less-than-Honorably 
discharged 
veterans. But a former official for 
the Navy speculates that the solu­
tion lies in a broader probing of 
the punitive discharge process 
as a whole. If the misbehavior of 
veterans is a symptom of risking 
their lives for their country, should 
the rest of their lives be ruined as 
a result?

Burke held out faith that the 
Yale settlement would help him 
upgrade his discharge status, but 
his original rejection from the 
NDRB was too recent for him 
to join the Manker settlement 
class. His faith now lies beyond 
the military and its flawed justice 
system. He’s a pastor of the Nor­
field Congregational Church and 
does advocacy work resettling 
Afghan refugees in Connecti­
cut. Even if his own chances for 
honor in the eyes of the military 
are now slim, he still hopes others 
will be granted a chance for honor 
through the Manker settlement. 
All the settlement needs to suc­
ceed is the judge’s  stamp of final 
approval. Burke’s praying for it. 
Elena DeBre is a junior in 
Pierson College and a 
former Executive Editor 
of The New Journal.


**Title: A Saturday at Lucibello’s Italian Pastry Shop**
**Author: Lukas Flippo**
**Page number(s): 26**

At Lucibello’s Italian Pastry Shop in downtown New Haven, preparing cakes 
for customers runs like clockwork. The order sheet is taken down from the 
wall, a cake is baked and iced, then placed into a box neatly tied shut with string 
before going into the refrigerator to wait for pickup. On this Saturday morn­
ing, one cake needs extra attention.
“It needs to say ‘Congratulations on passing your driver’s test,’” Isabella Sci­
rocco, a Lucibello’s employee, tells Peter Faggio.

It’s Faggio’s job to fit all of those words in icing onto the little open space 
remaining on top of the cake. I wander anxiously over to the counter where 
the operation is set to take place, still mystified that anyone could fit that many 
words on top of such a small cake.

Faggio doesn’t hesitate. Leaning over, he neatly scripts the congratulatory 
note in pink icing. None of the other employees even notice.

I let out a deep sigh of relief.

“When you have been doing it as long as I have…” Faggio trails off with a 
laugh after seeing my reaction.

Peter is a second-generation owner of the Lucibello’s. The pastry shop orig­
inally opened in 1929, and Peter’s father, Frank Faggio, purchased it in 1959 
after growing up working in the business. 
These photographs show a typical Saturday at the historic pastry shop, which 
brings tourists, students, and New Haven locals together to enjoy authentic 
Italian pastries.
 26
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
DESIGN BY ANNLI NAKAYAMA



**Title:  (No Title)**
**Author: (No Author)**
**Page number(s): 28, 29, 30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:


--- Page 28 ---

 28


--- Page 29 ---



--- Page 30 ---



**Title: MARCH 2022**
**Author: None**
**Page number(s): 33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 33
MARCH 2022


**Title: AGAINST SOLITARY, IN SOLIDARITY**
**Author: Hannah Qu**
**Page number(s): 34-35**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Colleen Lord rushed back 
to the kitchen to tend to 
the roast beef in the oven, 
leaving me for a few minutes to 
nervously 
explore 
her home. Her West 
Haven condo sat on 
the Long Island Sound 
with a window facing 
the water. The space 
was decorated with 
light blue and pur­
ple 
wallpaper, 
and 
a reproduction of a 
Monet painting hung 
on the wall. Photos of 
Colleen and her kids, 
smiling and rejoicing 
in each other’s com­
pany, stood on a ledge 
above 
the 
electric 
stove. 
To the left of these 
photos 
was 
a 
lit­
tle memorial plaque 
made of black stone. 
“Carl Robert Talbot. 
May 30, 1988-March 
21, 2019,” it read. 
When I arrived ear­
lier that day, Colleen 
introduced me to her 
dog, Ruby, a three 
year old “Cavachi,” a 
Cavalier King Charles 
Spaniel-Chihuahua 
mix. Ruby has kept 
Colleen 
company 
since the onset of the COVID-19 
pandemic. By then it had already 
been a year since she had lost her 
son, Carl Robert “Robby” Tal­
bot. The loneliness had become 
unbearable. So Colleen decided to 
adopt a dog in his memory.
“In Hebrew, Ruby means first 
son.” Colleen tossed a treat to her 
dog. “And Robby was my first 
son.”


Hospitals and pris­
ons were a revolv­
ing door in Robby’s 
thirty years of life. 
Robby 
struggled 
with 
schizophrenia 
and bipolar disorder. 
He had been in and 
out 
of 
Yale-New 
Haven 
Hospital 
many times and was 
often 
arrested 
for 
possession of mari­
juana or trespassing. 
After his last arrest 
for violating parole, 
he was brought back 
to prison at about 
10 PM on March 
19, 2019. Two days 
later, at 9:40 AM, 
he was pronounced 
dead. 
When the phone 
rang and the news 
came 
Robby’s 
death, Colleen told 
me that she asked the 
correctional 
officer 
at the other end of 
the line, “What hap­
pened to my son?” It 
took Colleen seven 
months to get the medical exam­
ination report, another year for her 
to access the material used during 
the State Attorney’s investigation, 
and several months more to make 
sense of scattered evidence from 
footage, medical reports, and cor­
rectional officers’ testimonies. 
Now, we were sitting in front 
of the 19 minutes of camera foot­
age, provided to her by the state 
attorney around a year and a half 
ago, that depicted the four sprays 
of mace and the kick Robby suf­
fered in his last moments of life. 
Colleen pressed play.


If I wasn’t choked with shock 
and anger, I would have cried 
watching Robby’s life fade in 
front of my eyes. I told Colleen 
that I could watch it alone, in case 
she felt it would be traumatizing 
to rewatch the video. But Colleen 
stayed. As the video played, she hit 
pause at several moments to calmly 
explain what was going on; were 
it not for the subtle tremble in her 
voice, it might have seemed like 
we were just analyzing a movie. 
“Many times,” Colleen replied 
when I asked how many times 
she’d watched the footage. “Some­
times I would be like ‘Oh, what 
did he say?’ and go back and redo 
it and write everything down in 
the timeline and identify all of the 
officers in there and compare what 
statements they said.” She forced a 
smile. “I still cry every day.” 
Based on the video, a pub­
licly available report by the state 
attorney, and Colleen’s memory, 
the events leading up to Robby’s 
death are fairly clear.


On Tuesday, March 19, 2019, 
Robby took what would be his last 
dose of methadone in the morn­
ing. In the evening, Robby was 
remanded to custody in the New 
Haven Correctional Center for 
staying in a hotel with his father, 
which violated his parole. That 
night, in prison, Robby had a psy­
chotic episode. 
The next day, Robby’s with­
drawal was worsening, and he 
was sent to the medical unit for 
psychological evaluation. Robby 
started yelling, screaming, smear­
ing feces over himself and the cell.


The day after that, Robby was 
taken to shower and clean off. He 
had difficulty leaving the shower. 
Lt. Carlos Padro stood by the 
door, ordering Robby to stand 
up. He soon lost patience and 
stepped into the tiny bathroom. 
He pepper-sprayed Robby twice 
and kicked him once in the torso. 
Robby screamed and pleaded, 
I can’t breathe! … I can’t see! 
Help me!


A person who is pepper 
sprayed needs to rinse the 
affected area for 15 minutes, 
according to CDC guidelines. 
Robby’s eyes were rinsed for 
only 10 seconds.


Robby was sent back to 
solitary confinement instead of to 
a medical unit to rinse the chem­
icals off his skin. He fell out of his 
wheelchair in the elevator. The 
surrounding police officers told 
him to stand up, and Robby tried. 
But, as a 400 pound man in a nar­
row space, he couldn’t. 
The officers were growing 
impatient. Robby repeated “I’m 
sorry,” then “my skin is on fire,” and 
“help!” Lt. Padro pepper-sprayed 
him again.


In Robby’s solitary confine­
ment cell, the officers chained him 
to his bed. He writhed in pain—
every inch of his skin burned. Lt. 
Padro was still repeating the word 
“Stop.” He sprayed Robby again. 
Robby screamed for it to stop. 
Other officers went in and out 
of the cell. They couldn’t stand the 
chemical agent in the air. Correc­
tional Officer Charles Washing­
ton, whose first name was not 
disclosed in the report and who 
had been standing outside the cell, 
entered and lunged for Robby to 
hold him down by his chest. 
Robby gulped, and once again 
managed to grit out the words, 
can’t… breathe. He never said 
anything else. He lay motionless 
in bed while officers continued 
attaching him to chains.


“Good job to everybody.” Lt. 
Padro said when the officers finally 
left the room. Robby was left 
alone in his unventilated, contam­
inated cell for around 90 minutes. 
At approximately 8:57 AM, Lt. 
Champion determined that Robby 
was not breathing, and he was sent 
to Yale New Haven Hospital.


At 9:40 AM, Robby was pro­
nounced dead.


Colleen eventually decided not 
to release the video. “I just keep 
thinking about what the state 
attorney said to me—not to make 
it public because there are ‘cruel 
people who have sick websites 
exploiting videos like this,” Col­
leen said. “I am cognizant that 
change comes [more] swift[ly] 
when people actually see what 
happened on video.” 
The New Haven Independent not 
only covered Robby’s death but 
also paid tribute to him and his life 
Despite the publicity surrounding 
death, 
however, 
nine 
months after that terrible morning 
still 
desperately 
trying to find out what exactly had 
happened to her son.


**Title: Stop Solitary CT**
**Page number(s): 35-36**

Despite the publicity surround­
ing Robby’s death, however, nine 
Colleen was still desperately try­
ing to find out what exactly had 
happened to her son. In December 
2019, she still hadn’t received any 
state police documents and videos. 
Around that time, she read an arti­
cle about a group named Stop Sol­
itary CT (SSCT), in which Karen 
Martucci, a spokesperson for the 
Department of Corrections, was 
quoted defending the practice of 
solitary confinement, saying that 
isolation “is reserved for the most 
violent, unmanageable” offenders, 
such as one who recently “embed­
ded a fan blade in another inmate’s 
skull.” Colleen knew from Rob­
by’s case that Martucci had mis­
characterized the policy. 


It was then, she told me, that 
she started to believe that the 
Connecticut DOC was running 
a legalized system of “torture,” a 
system with far-ranging reper­
cussions beyond the death of her 
son. So when an SSCT member 
reached out to Colleen in Decem­
ber, 2019, she met him in a coffee 
shop in New Haven to learn how 
she could get involved. 

SSCT was founded in 2017 by 
Barbara Fair, a lifelong activist in 
New Haven fighting for crimi­
nal justice, whose work has been 
covered in the CT Mirror, the New 
Haven Independent, and The Pol­
itic. Barbara Fair had witnessed 
firsthand how her youngest son’s 
mental health rapidly deteriorated 
during his solitary confinement at 
Northern Correctional Institution, 
where he was kept during pre-trial 
at the age of 16. She decided to 
make it her life’s work to end the 
pain  solitary confinement inflicts. 
Over the years, SSCT has brought 
together people like Colleen, for­
mer Department of Corrections 
(DoC) officers, formerly incar­
cerated people, and legal experts. 
Together, they have been fighting 
to end solitary confinement state­
wide and replace iso­
lation with a humane, 
safe, and rehabilita­
tive system, such as 
providing 
education 
opportunities 
reentry programs to 
incarcerated people. 
In 2019, Yale Law 
Professor Hope Met­
calf, who has worked closely with 
SSCT, argued in a letter to the 
UN that Connecticut's practices 
of isolation and in-cell chaining 
qualify as torture. In 2020, the 
UN stated that prolonged solitary 
confinement (without meaningful 
human contact for 22 hours for 
more than 15 consecutive days) 
amounts to psychological torture. 
In February 2021, SSCT called 
on the Connecticut legislature 
to pass the PROTECT Act. The 
Act ensures that all incarcerated 
people can leave their cells for 
at least 6.5 hours per day, limits 
isolation confinement strictly to 
emergencies, and prohibits it from 
lasting  more than 72 hours in a 
14-day period. It also prohibits 
assigning members of vulnera­
ble groups (such as young peo­
ple, pregnant people, and people 
with mental illnesses or disabili­
ties) to solitary confinement, and 
guarantees access to medical and 
mental health supervision. The 
act would also prohibit excessive 
use of “in-cell restraints”—lock­
ing someone in a cell using metal 
shackles and chains for up to 72 
hours—and would guarantee one 
weekly 60-minute social contact 
visit to protect social bonds. 
The PROTECT Act was passed 
by the State House and Senate’s 
Joint Committee on the Judiciary 
overwhelming 
bipartisan 
support in April 2021, and in early 
June the full Senate voted to pass 
the Act. But on June 30 Governor 
Lamont vetoed it, in a move that 
activist groups like SSCT said was 
meant to appease the Correctional 
Officers’s Union, whose mem­
bers threatened to strike if the Act 
passed. In a statement at the time, 
Lamont claimed that the Act “puts 
the safety of incarcerated persons 
and correction employees at sub­
stantial risk…[and] places unrea­
sonable and dangerous limits on 
the use of restraints.” 
Instead, Lamont replaced the 
bill with an executive order that 
can be revoked at any time. The 
order provides people in solitary 
confinement just 4 hours out of 
their cells each day, and allows 
DoC to incarcerate people for 22 
hours per day for up to 15 days 
in a row, or 30 days in a 60-day 
period if an “exception” is granted. 
The order also contains no protec­
tions enabling inmates to preserve 
social bonds, places no limits on 
the use of in-cell restraints, and 
doesn’t guarantee adequate medi­
cal or mental health services. 
In 2019, Yale Law Professor 
Hope Metcalf, who has worked 
closely with SSCT, argued in a 
letter to the UN that Connecticut's 
practices of isolation and in-cell 
chaining qualify as torture. In 2020, 
the UN stated that prolonged soli­
tary confinement (without mean­
ingful human contact for 22 hours 
for more than 15 consecutive days) 


In a footnote, the author added:
It was hard to get a sense of what was 
going on in the outside world while in 
solitary confinement. All the windows 
were tinted with a painted black film, 
and it took Tracie a long time to finally 
scratch a little of it off.



**Seven Years in Solitary**
**Author:  [No Author Listed]**
**Page number(s): 37-38**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
After the panel, I reached out 
to Tracie to learn about her life 
in solitary confinement. Her story 
was also reported this February in 
The Politic.Tracie lived in horrific 
conditions for 23 years at York 
Correctional Institution (a prison 
in East Lyme, Connecticut’s only 
state prison for women), start­
ing in 1992. She spent seven of 
those years in solitary confine­
ment. Those seven years taught 
her things she never imagined she 
would ever have to learn, like how 
to take a shower in handcuffs and 
how to talk with other inmates 
through toilets and ventilation 
ducts. Tracie now has severe 
PTSD: she is still bothered by 
lights, she can’t stand the sound of 
a television, even at low volume, 
and she’s got anxiety attacks from 
certain noises, like jingling keys.
Initially, Tracie was sentenced 
to solitary confinement for two 
years. Yet each subsequent time 
that she was issued a disciplinary 
ticket, the time she had already 
spent in solitary confinement was 
discounted, and she had to start all 
over again. Once she got a ticket 
for giving a tea-bag to another 
girl because they weren’t allowed 
to share personal items, or “com­
missary.” Another time she slid 
a plastic garbage bag to another 
inmate without first asking the 
guard if she could. Two years 
became seven years, and her body, 
now in constant aches and pains, 
recalls the damage of that time. 
After sleeping on a metal bed 
for years, Tracie told me her hips 
are 
bad—her 
back, her shoul­
der, everything 
aches. 
Some­
times, in soli­
tary, she wasn’t 
given 
enough 
to 
eat. 
She 
recalled hearing 
guards 
making 
cruel announce­
ments, 
saying 
“Oh, I spit in 
someone's 
tray 
today, I won­
der whose that 
is.” In moments 
like those, she 
preferred to stay 
hungry. 
Her 
body was also a 
means of humil­
iation. 
Doc­
tors announced 
whatever medi­
cal problems she 
had in public, 
she told me. Once, a guard asked 
a larger, mentally ill girl to dance 
and make a fool out of herself. 
Sometimes, Tracie told me, guards 
strip searched them just to laugh 
at their bodies. “All of these made 
me worse,” Tracie said. Since 
there was no independent over­
sight that accepted inmates' com­
plaints, Tracie and other incarcer­
ated women suffered all of these in 
silence.


It was hard to get a sense of 
what was going on in the outside 
world while in solitary confine­
ment. All the windows were tinted 
with a painted black film, and it 
took Tracie a long time to finally 
scratch a little of it off. Once in a 
while she could make out squirrels 
climbing up a tree or people's feet 
as they were walking by. Human 
contact was nearly impossible. 
For a period of time, she was only 
allowed visits from her lawyer. On 
the rare occasion that her family 
visited, she had to meet them in 
handcuffs. 

The humiliation and the lone­
liness severely damaged Tracie’s 
mental health, but asking for help 
often made it worse. Tracie told 
me that people in solitary con­
finement are often penalized for 
“overusing” mental health coun­
seling, and she was no exception. 
When Tracie told the correctional 
officers that she was suicidal and 
needed help, she was put into the 
special room in “J tier,” designed 
for people who wanted mental 
help. According to Tracie, the 
two J rooms were the dirtiest 
rooms. They had a connected pipe 
system, so when one toilet flushed, 
the contents passed to the toilet in 
the other room. Tracie found her­
self crying more in the J rooms 
than before. She said that this is 
what the system had been built to 
do—to punish people for asking 
for help, and to let them languish 
without it. In the fifth year of sol­
itary confinement, she came close 
to death, once attempting to hang 
herself. 

Tracie said at the January 22 
panel that she hadn’t  known there 
was a group of people on the out­
side fighting for her while she was 
in solitary confinement. Now, she 
is fighting from the outside her­self. Tracie never had access to 
education programs throughout 
her time in solitary confinement. 
After her release in 2015, she 
started taking classes at Quinnip­
iac, Trinity, and Wesleyan. She’s 
now a recovery support specialist, 
a volunteer leader of ACLU Smart 
Justice, and a frequent speaker at 
SSCT events. Fighting for crimi­
nal justice, such as advocating for 
abolishing solitary confinement, is 
a way for Tracie to make sense of 
23 years in prison. Now 42 years 
old, Tracie can’t help but wonder, 
“What do people see when they 
look at me—what do they see?” 


**You See Lost Souls**
**Page number(s): 39**

Looking at Ray Boyd’s gray and 
white beard, I could see the time 
that had passed him by. We met at 
the Starbucks near Yale’s campus 
for an interview; he is a man of few 
words with a quiet, low voice, but 
he put everything he had to say 
in his autobiography, The Model 
Inmate. Ray takes lots of pride in 
his book and always carries it with 
him. When I asked him if I could 
get a copy somewhere, he imme­
diately took one out of his bag and 
offered it to me as a gift with his 
signature on the title page.

Ray started his incarceration 
at Cheshire Correctional Institu­
tion, about half an hour north of 
New Haven, in December, 1992. 
In Cheshire, though not officially 
acknowledged, everyone is in soli­
tary confinement: Ray told me that 
the only difference between “reg­
ular confinement” and “solitary 
confinement” at Cheshire is that 
the former has two hours outside 
cell time instead of one hour. He 
wrote: “As my cell door slid open I 
stepped out unsure of where I was 
heading; however, I had quickly 
realized when I came to prison the 
one thing that I would find myself 
getting used to was following the 
crowd in whatever direction they 
were flowing in.”

The flow, he told me, sends 
people into a deep abyss. As Ray 
recorded in his writing, many 
people were using church service 
as an excuse to find more out-of-
cell time. “It was as if every crook, 
robber, rapist, thief, murderer and 
gangbanger [had] found their god 
on the inside,” Ray wrote. “The 
place looked more like hell if 
you’d ask me.”

Some choose to escape reality 
through medicine. “You got the 
individual who just could no lon­
ger take the hand that he was dealt 
and could no longer take prison; 
so, to cope with it he runs to the 
medication line each day and 
night to self-medicate to avoid the 
daily reality of being in prison,” he 
wrote.

Ray came back home in Novem­
ber of last year. Like myself and 
other young people around the 
country, he is working to get his 
driver license. A few days after 
our interview, Ray texted me that 
he unfortunately failed his DMV 
learner permit test, but he wished 
me good luck.

Formerly incarcer­
ated people have to 
learn to live normal 
lives again after they 
leave 
prison, 
espe­
cially those who were 
in solitary confine­
ment. For many, this 
proves to be a difficult 
task. Michael Braham, 
who I also met at the SSCT rally 
on Dec 10 and who was also fea­
tured in a February 2022 article in 
The Politic, wasn’t allowed to have 
any visitors, including family and 
friends, or to keep any commissary 
other than religious texts during 
his time in solitary confinement. 
In December, after being released 
for 6 months, Michael was asked 
about how he was adjusting to life 
after prison at the SSCT panel. He 
said, “Adjustment? I don’t know 
how I am adjusting. I hardly sleep, 
I sleep three hours per night.” 

During 
his 
incarceration, 
Michael received his Associate’s 
degree, two Bachelor’s degrees 
and his certification as a paralegal, 
and he is now working with his 
former attorney Alexander Taubes 
LAW 15’. In January, Ray and 
Michael came back again to sup­
port SSCT. Ray said “I just wanna 
come home and advocate for it, 
you know, for what is right.” 
Michael echoed that sentiment: “I 
saw Barbara was fighting for us, so 
I decided to join the fight.” 


**"I Was Diagnosed 
with PTSD"**

The 
problems 
that 
solitary 
confinement creates—the use of 
overwhelming force and physical 
restraints, the humiliation at the 
hands of guards, the lack of proper 
mental health and counseling, the 
hostile and toxic prison culture—
are felt by everyone involved. 

Kevnesha Boyd is a former ther­
apist at New Haven Correctional 
Center. Kevnesha was Robby’s 
therapist. Witnessing her own 
parents’ incarceration and the 
impact the War on Drugs had on 
the Black community, Kevnesha 
pursued a career in criminal justice 
and landed her dream job at the 
DoC, a place where she believed 
she would be able to provide peo­
ple with much-needed help.

Kevnesha started working at 
NHCC in 2015, and her dream

Kevnesha’s anxiety worsened, and 
she started to become paranoid about 
losing her medical license because 
she knew she was delivering a low level 
of care. As a mental health counselor 
herself, she started going to therapy.



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Hannah Qu**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
job soon became a nightmare. She 
noticed that the DoC essentially 
had no enforceable code for the 
care of incarcerated people and the 
system resisted delivering actual 
treatment. 
Kevnesha 
witnessed 
and heard accounts of myriad abu­
sive practices. An inmate told her 
that when they flushed their toilet, 
the feces would come up in the 
water fountain because the pipes 
were connected. Punching the 
wall became a common practice, as 
inmates injured themselves to dis­
tract from their deeper existential 
pain. She says someone once told 
her “I just needed to see blood, 
because sometimes I can't tell if 
I'm alive.” Another patient said, “I 
didn't want to kill myself until I 
got on suicide watch.”

Day after day, she was unable 
to provide the health care peo­
ple needed: The DoC policy 
only allowed her to meet with 
her patients once a month, pri­
vacy was never guaranteed, call­
ing her clients by their first name 
wasn’t allowed, and the people she 
wanted to work with didn’t always 
trust her. 

“It started to change how I was 
showing up as a mental health pro­
fessional,” Kevnesha recalled. “It 
started to change how I was treat­
ing people, it started to change 
how I was thinking, and ultimately 
it started to change me personally, 
my relationships, my ability to 
sleep, my ability to be at ease.” 
Kevnesha’s anxiety worsened, 
and she started to become paranoid 
about losing her medical license 
because she knew she was deliver­
ing a low level of care. As a mental 
health counselor herself, she started 
going to therapy.

There are some memories that 
Kevnesha still agonizes over. Kev­
nesha met Robby and became 
friends with him during his incar­
ceration from September 2018 to 
January 2019. She remembered 
Robby’s gentle, naive behavior, 
remembered Robby’s love for his 
mother, that he always looked for­
ward to family visits, and that he 
wanted to get better. Kevnesha 
wasn’t there the morning Robby 
died, but when she came in for 
the evening shift, she became dis­
traught at the level of indifference 
at the prison. There was no discus­
sion, no mourning. Officers went 
about their days, talking about 
Robby’s death without any regard 
for him as a human. That was Kev­
nesha’s last straw. Soon after that, 
she resigned from the DoC. She 
later joined SSCT and submitted 
testimony in support of the PRO­
TECT Act.

Solitary confinement is more 
than a punitive practice; it is a sys­
tem that teaches incarcerated peo­
ple violence instead of rehabilita­
tion. And it brings out the worst 
part of correctional officers, who 
were once normal citizens. It dam­
aged the bodies and minds of Tra­
cie, Ray, and Michael. For Kev­
nesha and Robert Gillis, a former 
warden who worked with DoC for 
36 years, not a day goes by without 
them thinking about their involve­
ment with solitary confinement, 
which compromised their ethical 
values and made them more cal­
lous. Fundamentally, solitary con­
finement calls into question what 
we believe to be the purpose of the 
criminal justice system: punish­
ment or rehabilitation? 

As Tracie wrote in a poem: 
“Can’t I the devil confess that you 
are Lord / and I too taste in Heav­
ens reward / Can we finally bridge 
the gap between Heaven and hell / 
Can’t I the devil bask in your for­
giveness as well?” 

In March 2020, the state attor­
ney’s office released a report on 
Robby’s death investigation. The 
report concluded that “based on 
the independent review of all the 
investigative materials, it is the 
opinion of the State’s Attorney 
that no actions of any individual 
Department of Corrections official 
can be determined to be a prox­
imate cause in the death of Mr. 
Talbot…  no criminal charges will 
be brought with respect to Mr. 
Talbot’s tragic death.” 

On a sunny afternoon in Jan­
uary, Colleen recounted Robby’s 
story to me. We sat in her condo 
by the Long Island Sound, star­
ing out across the blue. As we 
watched the footage of Robby’s 
death, she closed the curtains—it 
was “too sunny.” By the time we 
pulled them open, it was 5PM, 
and the sky was painted a mel­
ancholic blue. We fell silent. We 
paused the interview to watch 
the sun set above the sea—the sky 
turned vibrant yellow, blazing 
orange, and then bloody red as 
the sun burnt through the clouds. 
And then, it calmed down. There 
was pure, thick darkness, and we 
resumed our conversation.


**Title: LESSONS FROM A FRACTURED LEGACY**
**Author: DANIEL INOJOSA**
**Page number(s): 41-42**

Caleb Maupin occupies a 
strange position in the left­
ist online mediascape. A 
journalist, author, and self-de­
scribed “political analyst” with 
clear 
authoritarian 
sympathies, 
his work has drawn accusations of 
anti-Semitism, transphobia, rac­
ism, and other forms of bigotry, 
rendering him an undesirable rep­
resentation of the Left.  His most 
recent work, which one might 
generously 
call 
‘investigative,’ 
claims to uncover CIA connec­
tions among leftist Internet per­
sonalities and only attempts to sow 
further discord. Maupin and other 
mud-slingers like him within the 
so-called “online left” are thorny 
obstacles in the milieu’s ongoing 
struggle to draw lines of solidarity. 
Calls for unity occasionally surface 
amid this sea of discord. Yet for all 
their urgency, they ring hollow so 
long as their subject—the online 
forum—is 
divorced 
from 
real 
organizational forms, like those 
that characterized the twentieth 
century Left. If the Left must live 
up to its twentieth-century legacy 
through unity, that legacy first has 
to be understood in a way that 
rejects nostalgia.


Rather than cling to illusions 
of unity, Terence Renaud—a lec­
turer in the Humanities and mem­
ber of Directed Studies faculty at 
Yale—pushes his audience to tune 
into the discord that has always 
fractured the international Left. 
New Lefts: The Making of a Rad­
ical Tradition charts a “third strain” 
of twentieth-century European 
ideological history, which stakes 
its place between the mid-century 
collapse and restabilization of cap­
italism on one end and the rise of 
Soviet Communist hegemony on 
the other. This third strain finds 
its character in a myriad of small 
organizations, through both their 
commitment to radical internal 
democracy and intergenerational 
conflict. 

Renaud’s “New Lefts” ebb and 
flow across generations. The anti­
fascist block in nineteen-thirties 
Germany gave way to the post­
war transition to Social Democ­
racy in the fifties, and then to 
the countercultural fervor of the 
sixties. Though “neoleftists”—a 
term coined by Renaud to refer 
to fringe heterodox Marxists—
adopted tactics ranging from clan­
destine conspiracy to radical face­
less democracy, their overarching 
goal always was to overcome the 
inactivity 
of 
existing 
work­
ing-class political institutions and 
their partisan squabbles—to break, 
in Renaud’s words, “bureaucratic 
sclerosis.”

Renaud avoids inundating the 
reader with the names and histories 
of so many leftist organizations, 
instead grounding the beginning 
of his narrative through the ideo­
logical development of one Hun­
garian Marxist, Georg Luk ács. 
By charting the life of this chief 
intellectual protagonist—from his 
tutelage under the social scien­
tist Ervin Szabo, to his brief stint 
as a commissar in the Hungarian 
Soviet Republic, to his loyalty to 
the Communist International—
Renaud renders accessible central 
theoretical debates on the Left and 
provides a blueprint for the story 
of neoleftists after Lukács. Like 
young neoleftists to come, Lukács 
obsessed over the authenticity of 
movements once they had solid­
ified into partisan bureaucracies. 
Renaud makes a great choice in 
using Lukács’ life to display the 
heterogeneity of leftist ideology, 
even in an age of mounting Soviet 
paternalism. 

Renaud leaves Lukács behind 
after the initial chapters to con­
front his real subject matter: small 
left-wing organizations through­
out the long twentieth century. 
Renaud finds plenty of room 
to navigate narrative themes of 
newness, intergenerational con­
flict, and radical experimentation 
through the history of the Org, an 
underground syndicate of Marx­
ist intellectuals and working-class 
organizers. The Org’s initial stra­
tegic preoccupation with over­
coming squabbles between Com­
munists and Social Democrats 
highlights the way opposing forces 
within the Left motivated new 
organizational projects. Its even­
tual co-optation by rebellious stu­
dents embodies the intergenera­
tional conflict that drives Renaud’s 
history. Its tactical overhaul from a 
system of conspiratorial cells into 
a decentralized antifascist net­
work demonstrates the kind of 
organizational fluidity through­
out history that interests Renaud. 
Even the Org’s change in mon­
iker to New Beginning operates 
as an endearing thematic callback 
to youth and rejuvenation. The 
fact that such a cogent historical 
argument emerges from materials 
so sparsely translated and arranged 
for an English-speaking audience 
is a testament to Renaud’s skill as 
a historian. 

From the Left Book Club in 
London, to the Italian emigres of 
Justice and Liberty, to the Catalan 
Workers and Peasants’ Bloc, plenty 
of other neoleftist organizations 
and their members also abound 
in the early half of Renaud’s nar­
rative. Their relevance to the plot, 
however, often depends on their 
engagement with the antifascist 
front in Spain and their relation­
ship with New Beginning once in 
exile. Beyond that, they hang like 
loose narrative threads. Renaud 
also limits his engagement with 
the subject of imperialism, which 
appears only as an occasional refer­
ence in later segments of the book 
without much contextualization or 
examination.

When he does manage to spin 
the transnational web together, 
however, Renaud proves remark­
ably effective. His treatment of 
the Spanish front offers a potent 
setting through which to examine 
leftist youth’s estrangement from 
the Stalinist project, once again 
forcing our attention towards 
intergenerational tensions while 
seamlessly integrating Spain into 
a 
historiographical 
perspective 
largely focused on Germany. As we 
look at the interwar years through 
Renaud’s neoleftist lens, the Molo­
tov-Ribbentrop Pact becomes a 
climactic betrayal, the culmination 
of a gradual crescendo of aggres­
sive Soviet policies against left­
ists abroad. New Lefts, through its 
biographical purview, renders bare 
the stakes of discord within the 
ranks of the workers’ movement.

And yet a bittersweetness hangs 
over 
the 
narrative. 
Renaud’s 
emphasis on German “New Lefts” 
lends itself to a depressing transna­
tional narrative of impotence and 
co-optation in exile. Nazism’s rise 
to power inevitably scattered small 
leftist projects to the wind, forc­
ing their members to demonstrate 
remarkable ingenuity in maintain­
ing international and often illegal 
connections. The same precarities 
of refugee status that spurred such 
ingenuity, however, also pressured 
fringe neoleftists to align with 
bourgeois 
democracies 
against 
fascism. Renaud inevitably tracks 
how interwar antifascists aban­
doned aspirations of grassroots 
revolution in Germany and seg­
ued their positions into populist 
Social Democracy. The narrative 
encourages us to appreciate the 
agency with which former radicals 
set aside their aspirations, and yet 
at no point can its author outrun 
the conclusion that, by the turn of 
the sixties, Marxism as a driving 
political doctrine had more or less 
died out.

Nor did the zeitgeist of the six­
ties unambiguously redeem twen­
tieth-century 
leftism. 
nuanced telling of the sixties 
details the exhilarating revival of 
antifascist methods and rhetoric 
by youth retaliating against the 
new technocracy of post-indus­
trial capitalism. But it also captures 
the dissonance between bourgeois 
students of the New Left and the 
workers with whom they politi­
cally aligned themselves. The same 
spontaneity and intentional refusal 
to centralize that characterized 
the sixties’ uprisings also proved 
politically ineffective, despite their 
cultural significance. Renaud goes 
so far as to lean into neoleftism’s 
ephemerality as an ironic com­
ponent of a political process that 
strives to build tomorrow’s utopia 
through today’s practices. Neoleft­
ists tried, failed, and tried again in a 
seemingly endless quest to remain 
forever young, authentic, and true 
to their utopian aspirations.

For Renaud, that irony is the 
point of neoleftist history and the 
driving force behind his narrative. 
But, as a reader, I found myself 
wishing  for his narrative to offer 
of unity, Terence Renaud—a 
lecturer in the Humanities and 
member of Directed Studies 
faculty at Yale—pushes his au­
dience to tune into the discord 
that has always fractured the 
international Left.



**Title: New Lefts: The Sixties and Beyond**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 43**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
MARCH 2022
 43
a clearer resolution. In avoiding 
narrative 
contrivance, 
Renaud 
must contend with the weakened 
state of today’s Left, preoccupied 
as it often is by cultural concerns 
with little organizational content. 
Renaud attempts in his epilogue 
to find a 21st-century American 
thread in the Occupy movement, 
Black Lives Matter (BLM), and 
recent electoral interest in dem­
ocratic socialism among young 
people. Nevertheless, even these 
phenomena became defanged in 
faux cultural disputes. The culture 
Neoleftists tried, failed, and 
tried again in a seemingly 
endless quest to remain 
forever young, authentic, 
and true to their utopian 
aspirations.
wars of today’s online Left seem 
very much an unfortunate inheri­
tance of the sixties New Left, and a 
distraction from the material stakes 
that preoccupied the neoleftists of 
the antifascist years. 
Through its novel intergenera­
tional scope, New Lefts expands our 
understanding of the 20th-cen­
tury left to include projects at the 
fringe of the workers’ movement. 
After reading, though, I found 
myself grappling with the ques­
tion of where we go from here. 
The Occupy movement invited 
national ridicule before fizzling 
out. Despite Occupy’s subtler leg­
acy in activist and electoral circles, 
few would so-publicly threaten 
Wall Street’s fiscal supremacy until 
the Gamestop stock surge earlier 
last year—an effort spearheaded 
by capitalistic Reddit speculators. 
The material demands of the early 
BLM movement, rooted in police 
abolition and community control, 
would also give way in the public 
imagination to corporate “anti-rac­
ist” commitments that lent them­
selves easily to movement capture 
by cultural elites. This is not to say 
that cultural commitments mean 
nothing; we should challenge our 
comrades’ shortcomings. But pre­
occupation with cultural reforms 
rings especially hollow amid the 
dissonance between our circum­
stances and our discourse. I wonder 
if New Lefts in some way reveals 
where this dissonance came from.
Daniel Inojosa is a junior in 
Silliman College.


**Title: Suburban Car Service Station at the Edge of the World**
**Author: Ella Goldblum**

POEM
SUBURBAN CAR SERVICE STATION AT  THE EDGE OF  THE WORLD
BY ELLA GOLDBLUM
I.
At the edge of the world
there is a suburban car service station,
masked attendants waving entry to dehydrated vehicles. I drove there today to touch the 
nervous mechanic with my eyes—I don’t know, anymore, where to put my love for other people. He averted his 
gaze; I examined myself in the rearview mirror instead. It was so humid at the 
service station,
I began to crave my own spit.
Once, I fell so hard for someone
I was convinced I was driving off a cliff. 
Months later we went silent on the phone. I became my own traffic island, circling the lush green
trees in the neighborhood. They are way too alive, 
I wanted to scream at their creator. 
II.
When you can’t smell the dead bodies in the air, you pray to God for reasonable things: 
drive-thru Chick-Fil-A, bag of waffle fries, slushie at the 7-11 off the third highway exit. 
The only natural reaction is to tune the radio to the perfect station: 
the music, not the news, 
so if the world ends this afternoon,
you will be the last to find out. 



--- Page 44 ---

 44
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
EDWARD B. BENNETT III 
MEMORIAL FELLOWSHIP
Do you have a story that you want to tell about  Yale or New Haven that requires in-depth reporting be­
yond the Elm City? Then apply for the Edward B. Bennett III Memorial Fellowship! For an EBMF-sup­
ported article, think about the national implications of local stories. The Fellowship commemorates 
the late Edward “Edder” B. Bennett III, Yale College Class of 1983, who revived The New Journal after 
a period of dormancy and served as its publisher in the early nineteen-eighties. For an EBMF-support­
ed article, think about the national implications of local stories. You might propose investigating how 
a particular issue pertinent to New Haven has been felt in other cities, or how Yale has influenced (or 
been influenced by) a far-away place like Singapore or Sitka.  
Fellows are expected to publish their articles in The New Journal within six months of receiving the 
award. Applications for summer projects will be due by May 15, 2022. Please email them to 
thenewjournal@gmail.com. Please also feel free to reach out with any questions!
Your application, due to us by May 15, 2022, should include the following: 
1.	 A one-page proposal for the article you would like to write. Please tell us: what the article is about, 
how the article relates to Yale or New Haven, what the overarching questions will be, why this arti­
cle should be written now, and why you think it is nationally significant. 
2.	 A writing sample, either journalistic or academic. (If you have it, journalism is highly preferred.) 
3.	 A budget detailing likely reporting expenses—such as transportation, court document fees, transla­
tion fees, or anything else. Please describe in detail how travel would enhance your proposed story. 
We expect awards to be on average around $1,000—if you have a strong proposal that requires 
more support, please be specific in explaining why. 
JOIN US!
The New Journal, founded in 1967, is a student-run magazine 
that publishes investigative journalism and creative nonfiction 
about Yale and New Haven. We produce five issues a year that 
include both long-form and short features, profiles, essays, 
reviews, and poetry. 
Email us at thenewjournal@gmail.com to join our writers’ 
panlist and get updates on future ways to get involved. We’re 
always excited to welcome new writers to our community. 
You can check out past issues of The New Journal at our web­
site, www.thenewjournalatyale.com
41
We are currently accepting 
applications for design editors. 
Scan the QR code to apply.

