Publication date: OCT 2017
Volume: 50
Issue number: 2

**MASTHEAD**
- editors-in-chief: Eliza Fawcett, Natalie Yang
- managing editor: Victorio Cabrera
- executive editor: Ruby Bilger
- senior editors: Elena Saavedra Buckley, Jacob Sweet, Oriana Tang, Victor Wang
- associate editors: Antonia Ayres-Brown, Chris Hays, Mark Rosenberg, Annie Rosenthal, Robert Scaramuccia, Arya Sundaram
- copy editors: Philippe Chlenski, Meghana Mysore, Marina Tinone, Amy Xu
- managing design editor: Julia Hedges
- design editors: Steph Barker, Hazal Özgür
- photo editor: Elinor Hills
- web developer: Philippe Chlenski


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- points of departure - Nicole Blackwood, Elaine Wang, Mariah Kreutter
- snapshot - Laura Glesby
- essay - Dimitri Diagne
- feature - Amelia Nierenberg
- poem - Olivia Noble
- endnote - Jacob Sweet


**Title: FROM THE GROUND UP**
**Author: Mark Rosenberg**
**Page number(s): 24**

Domestic violence is on the rise in New Haven. Can a proposed center provide the support victims need? 


**Title: THE PERIMETER**
**Author: Amelia Nierenberg**
**Page number(s): 17**

With the opening of Yale’s new residential colleges, Dixwell sees another wave of change.


**Title: THE YALE HERALDRY**
**Author: Nicole Blackwood**
**Page number(s): 4**


**Title: GROWTH IN THE GREENHOUSE**
**Author: Elaine Wang**


**Title: WHAT’S WITH THAT PAINTING?**
**Author: Mariah Kreutter**


**Title: THE HOUSE ON ADELINE STREET**
**Author: Laura Glesby**
**Page number(s): 10**

Yale School of Architecture students approach homelessness with high design


**Title: ELEVEN HOURS**
**Author: Dimitri Diagne**
**Page number(s): 14**

Grappling with loss in the shadow of the eclipse


**Title: OLD LYME**
**Author: Olivia Noble**
**Page number(s): 23**


**Title: FINDING LOVE AT YALE**
**Author: Jacob Sweet**
**Page number(s): 34**



**Title: THE YALE HERALDRY**
**Author: Nicole Blackwood**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Can a new coat of arms reflect changing times?

Hopper College’s coat of arms, featured on a 
plaque above the dining hall fireplace, is hard 
to miss. The marine emblem, striking in its yel-
low and blue, seems anachronistic; the coat of arms 
looks too new and polished to appear fully at home 
against the wood paneling, stained glass, and chande-
liers.


But this juxtaposition is not incidental. After Yale 
University decided to rename Calhoun College in 
honor of Grace Hopper in February 2017 and to open 
up two new residential colleges, Benjamin Franklin 
and Pauli Murray, it enlisted the Office of the Univer-
sity Printer to design new coats of arms. A little-known 
department, the Office is responsible for Yale’s visual 
identity, which, according to its website, “relies on the 
consistent and effective use of [Yale’s] branding touch-
stones.” Those touchstones include Yale’s logo, coat of 
arms, and typeface, all designed by an office of six but 
seen by millions.


School of Art graduate John Gambell, official Univer-
sity Printer and keeper of emblematic keys, described 
Yale’s visual branding as an asset that Yale entities use 
and return. “Every piece that comes out of Yale needs 
to be focused on an audience,” Gambell said, empha-
sizing that the graphics need to represent the culture of 
the university itself.


When Gambell began to design the new residen-
tial colleges’ coats of arms, his task was to both craft 
something new and pay homage to the old. In planning 
the Franklin design, Gambell initially hoped to utilize 
Benjamin Franklin’s family coat of arms, but found it 
was a “mishmash” of competing elements. “I looked at 
it, and it was not as good as any of the existing residen-
tial college coats of arms,” Gambell said. He began to 
draft a visual that would, somehow, reconcile the fig-
ure of Franklin as he appears in textbooks with a more 
modern “graphic dynamism.”


The Murray and Hopper coats of arms are similar 
tugs-of-war between past and present: Pauli Murray’s is 
inspired by elements of the Scottish Murray family coat 
of arms, while Hopper’s retains the colors of the former 
Calhoun coat of arms while adding a dolphin to repre-
sent Grace Hopper’s naval leadership. Some view the 
dolphin as representative of the new shields’ playful-
ness (“The humorous elements alone are a big break-
through,” said Hopper Head Julia Adams). This begs 
the question: As Yale situates itself in a more inclusive 
era, how much traditionalism is necessary for a living, 
breathing university?


The University developed its own coat of arms long 
before those of the colleges, and, as one might expect 
of a heraldic practice fighting for its life in a digital cen-
tury, the prominence of Yale’s coat of arms has dimin-
ished. The shield was derived from the Seal of Yale 
University and approved in the 1720s. It first appeared 
on Master’s Degree diplomas in 1749, when Ezra Stiles 
was President of the University. As a trademark, the 
coat of arms lost its brand-
ing pride of place in 2007, 
when former Yale Cor-
poration Secretary Linda 
Lorimer and former pres-
ident Rick Levin travelled 
to South and East Asia and 
found that Yale’s primary 
identifiers—the 
bulldog, 
the coat of arms—were not 
only unfamiliar but also 
alienating to the general public. 


The result was the development 
of Yale’s primary logo, the “Y.”


“We thought very hard about 
what heraldry represents, and 
it is very Eurocentric,” Gam-
bell said. “It was for people 
who were generally moneyed 
or had some military connec-
tion…There was a feeling that 
it’s probably appropriate for the 
general, international, broad 
audience, to really concentrate 
on our happy Y-A-L-E.”


And yet heraldry at Yale still flourishes in the residen-
tial college system—that much is apparent from college 
t-shirts and lanyards alone. Most of the colleges’ coats 
of arms were developed in 1953 by Theodore “Tubby” 
Sizer, former Yale professor and Art Gallery director, 
to liven up Yale ceremonies, and were based upon the 
familial coat of arms of each college’s namesake.


Perhaps as a result of the new insignias’ playful and 
subversive elements, many view them as a connecting 
force between the traditional, elitist “Old Yale” and the 
modern, progressive “New Yale.” For instance, Pauli 
Murray’s coat of arms has what heraldic language calls a 
“counterchanged circle” to represent her “transgressive 
gender expression,” according to the college’s website. 
Franklin Head Charles Bailyn called the emblems “a 
nice joining between ancient traditions of universities 
dating back a thousand years to our current place in 
the twenty-first century.” Murray Head Tina Lu echoed 
this sentiment, saying that a coat of arms is “an easy-on 
ramp to feeling like you belong to something that’s tra-
ditional” and stressed that the lighthearted use of the 
coat of arms—in t-shirts and temporary tattoos—links 
their traditional usage with a new era. 


For some, the appeal lies in the coats of arms’ aes-
thetic ties to Old Yale and their embrace of the univer-
sity’s pseudo-medieval identity. “I love how they look 
like they’re old, like they’ve always been in existence 
here,” said Franklin first-year Sylvia Kryszczuk.


But for Laura Maldonado-Rivera, a first-year in Pauli 
Murray, the coats of arms contradict the progress that 
the new colleges have made in rejecting some of Yale’s 
exclusive history. “I feel like the new colleges and 
Grace Hopper…should just embrace their new iden-
tity rather than try to even emulate the other colleges,” 
she said.


It’s possible that the coats of arms are meant as visual 
aids, a way to sustain the university as a symbolic, per-
haps literal, cohesive whole, to reconcile Old Yale 
and New Yale and still draw some kind of distinction 
between the two. But if a breakthrough is what was 
intended, Gambell’s task seems not only murky 
or paradoxical, but impossible—to design coats of 
arms that would fit neatly alongside their ancient, 
familial counterparts, blend into a residential col-
lege dining hall, and still symbolize progress.


Gambell himself acknowledged this tension. 
“It’s almost like the idea of having coat of arms is 
sort of de rigueur for universities,” he said. “Almost 
ironically, the idea of [a] coat of arms…[gives off] 
a ‘high-level’—some people would argue slightly 
elitist—kind of impression.” However, he argued 
that students can embrace or discard their residen-
tial college coats of arms, as their essential func-
tion is solely within the gates of Yale’s corporate 
structure.


“It’s sort of arbitrary,” Gambell said of the resi-
dential college coat of arms. Arbitrary, even as his 
office bustled around him, endeavoring to keep the 
New Yale, Y-A-L-E, alive while it maintains some 
of the Old. “Heaven knows they can be changed, 
one of these fine days,” he said, “if the spirit moves 
the right people.”

– Nicole Blackwood is a sophomore in 
Timothy Dwight College.



**Title: GROWTH IN THE GREENHOUSE**
**Author: Elaine Wang**
**Page number(s): 6**

A program in Edgerton Park for adults with disabilities weathers the state budget crisis

It’s eight-thirty a.m. on a Monday in East Rock’s Edg-
erton Park and Steffen Moore is sweeping the green-
house floor. Moore, who is 35, has already held more 
than seven jobs—at the Mary Wade Home, a New Hav-
en-based home care agency, and various truck stops—but 
these stints were always short-lived. More often than not, 
he was among the 64.6 percent of workers with a disability 
who were unemployed in Connecticut. That is, until his 
caseworker at the Connecticut Department of Develop-
mental Services (DDS)—which serves individuals with 
intellectual disabilities and their families—referred him 
to G.R.O.W.E.R.S., Inc.  


G.R.O.W.E.R.S. stands for “Growing Real Opportuni-
ties With Education, Relationships and Stability.” It’s a 
nonprofit designed to help New Haven adults with phys-
ical and developmental disabilities become self-sufficient 
through horticultural experience, occupational training, 
and education. The program runs every weekday from 
nine a.m. to two p.m. in the greenhouses and community 
gardens of Edgerton Park. G.R.O.W.E.R.S. employees 
pick up participants from their homes and assign them 
a flexible set of chores, such as cleaning up greenhouse 
shelves, raising plants for sale in the greenhouse, and 
maintaining the park. Some participants are also trained 
for landscaping and contracted to take care of private gar-
dens.


“I’ve seen this program do amazing things for a lot of peo-
ple,” said Scott Hickman, who founded G.R.O.W.E.R.S. 
in 2012. “I grew up in a greenhouse, went to school for it, 
but still can’t put my finger [on] how the greenery can 
be so transformative.” G.R.O.W.E.R.S is one of the three 
adult day programs for people with disabilities in New 
Haven, and the only one that provides services for those 
under the age of 60.


But Connecticut’s budget crisis has severely curtailed 
G.R.O.W.E.R.S.’s work. A similar program in the same 
greenhouse, called Greenbrier, shut down in 2011, after 
Connecticut’s $3.4 billion deficit forced it to cut fund-
ing to day programs. Hickman, who served as Green-
brier’s horticulture supervisor, rebuilt the program into 
G.R.O.W.E.R.S. He conceived of a more creative and 
specialized structure: the “Three Paths.” Clients would 
be placed into three groups based on their developmen-
tal and physical ability. Path One was designed for clients 
who wanted to enter the job market. The tasks they were 
assigned—landscaping a private garden, for example—
would improve their job and social skills. Path Two was for 
individuals who needed more supervision, combining tai-
lored instruction and paid work. Path Three would serve 
clients who required even more intensive support, focus-
ing on horticultural therapy to increase overall well-being. 
Connecticut’s budget crisis, however, also clobbered 
G.R.O.W.E.R.S. The organization, which is funded by 
DDS and rents its space from the Edgerton Park Con-
servancy, is only able to employ three full-time staff and 
depends mostly upon volunteers. It also had to effectively 
scrap the “Three Paths” program after Hickman realized 
the difficulty of housing more than one type of work in the 
location. It now accommodates mostly Path Two clients 
within its facility.  



**Title: THE NEW JOURNAL**
**Author: Elaine Wang**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 7
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
But Hickman finds other ways to help his clients. Start-
ing at one p.m. every day, Hickman and Raina Workman, 
the G.R.O.W.E.R.S. job coach, teach a combination of 
reading and life skill classes, designed so that their clients 
can be competitively employed and self-sufficient. The 
lessons range from plant identification and propagation to 
discussions of situational problem solving.


One Wednesday in September, Hickman conducted a 
discussion regarding bullying, with a focus on self-empow-
erment. “We sat and listened to the stories they had to deal 
with,” he said. “Even the quieter ones start speaking out 
after they see the others sharing.”


Hickman remains ardent about the program’s potential 
for building community among vulnerable populations 
even amidst funding difficulties. He wishes to expand the 
program, perhaps through a summer camp for disabled 
children in the greenhouse, with the participants acting 
as counselors. With a larger budget, he’d also love to start 
programs in retirement home complexes or transform 
abandoned greenhouses into storefronts. 


For now, on most days throughout the fall, Workman 
leads a reading group on Stephenie Meyer’s young adult 
series Twilight, the most common gift to the local dona-
tion boxes. Sitting next to several pots of yellow chrysan-
themums, the participants take turns reading, five lines at 
a time. They pause to discuss vocabulary like “prolong” 
and “unconditional.”


“If you’re religious, God’s love is unconditional,” 
Workman clarifies for the group. “Your human rights are 
unconditional.”
– Elaine Wang is a sophomore in 
Branford College.

**Title: WHAT’S WITH THAT PAINTING?**
**Author: Mariah Kreutter**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

 8
WHAT’S WITH THAT PAINTING?
P O I N T  O F  D E PA R T U R E
The hidden story of the strangest painting in Berkeley’s dining hall
Mariah Kreutter
T
he Head of College portraits in Yale dining 
halls don’t usually register as art. Nobody shows 
up looking for them. Nobody gazes at them, 
trancelike, for whole minutes at a time. They’re just 
there, ubiquitous and inevitable. Like midterms or Yale 
Granola™. As is the case with so much public art, they 
have become part of the landscape.


One striking exception is the 2001 portrait of former 
Head of College Harry “Skip” Stout in the Berkeley 
College dining hall. By the admittedly staid standards 
of its brethren, it’s a radical piece. It has none of the 
standbys of the genre: no doctoral robes, no muted 
color palette, and certainly no slavish devotion to real-
ism. Stout’s face is done in pastel pinks and greens, the 
paint so sheer that the pencil tracings underneath are 
visible. The background is a stark black, broken up only 
by a wobbly green stripe across the top of the painting. 
A trio of projectile Berkeley shields race towards Stout’s 
head, complete with speed lines, resembling nothing 
so much as nuclear warheads.


In my experience, the portrait’s social good is its role 
as a reliable conversation starter between awkward first-
years. But student opinion remains divided on its par-
ticular merits:
Anonymous Silliman Sophomore: “That shit is 
whack.” 
Molly Ono, Stiles Sophomore: “Hey, I like it.” 
Berkeley Student who later retracted his 
identity: “Honestly, just say whatever bad thing you 
want about that painting and give me credit for it, 
because it’s probably true.” 


The painting has fascinated me ever since I came to 
Yale. Who painted it? Why is it so different from all the 
other portraits? Why the green stripe? Why the flying 
shields? And why is it so...well, ugly?


Perhaps unsurprisingly, the painting wasn’t done 
by a professional portraitist. It was painted by Richard 
Beggs, an Academy Award-winning sound designer 
known for his work with two generations of Coppolas 
on films such as Apocalypse Now and Lost in Trans-
lation. While Beggs trained as a painter, receiving 
his MFA from the California College of the Arts, he 
quickly became disillusioned with what he saw as the 
hypocrisy, pretension, and infighting of the art world. 
He spent a portion of his MFA grant money on audio 
equipment and more or less never looked back. By the 
time Stout asked him to do his official portrait, Beggs 
hadn’t painted seriously in years. So why did Stout spe-
cifically request him? “It wasn’t about his art, per se,” 
said the former Head of College.


A year before Stout became Head of Berkeley in 
1990, Beggs’s daughter, Samantha, died in a car acci-
dent in the summer before what would have been her 
sophomore year. (The annual Samantha Landau Beggs 
Prize, awarded to a “first-year student whose presence is 
profoundly felt throughout the Berkeley community,” 
is named in her honor.) Beggs was made an Associate 
Fellow of the College and would visit each year, staying 
in the guest suite of what is now the Swensen House 
and striking up a friendship with Stout along the way.


Eventually, Stout returned the favor, visiting Beggs 
at his home in San Francisco. The way Beggs tells it, 
Stout was impressed by a series of portraits of well-
known composers Beggs had done during his grad-stu-
dent days. But Stout remembers it differently: “I was 
struck when I got to his house that there were all of 
illustration julia hedges


--- Page 9 ---

 9
these half-finished paintings…He said they were unfin-
ished portraits of his daughter, signifying her unfin-
ished life.” After learning about his formal training in 
painting, Stout asked Beggs if he would do the official 
portrait, a custom at the end of a Berkeley Head’s ten-
ure.


At first, Beggs thought Stout was joking; he was even 
more surprised when he found out how much money 
the Berkeley Fellows had raised to pay him for it. “I was 
like, are you fucking kidding me?” Beggs recalled. 
But Stout wasn’t kidding, so Beggs took on the proj-
ect. He was given very few constraints beyond making 
Stout recognizable in the portrait. In his early years as a 
painting student, Beggs drew inspiration from Abstract 
Expressionist and neo-figurative painters such as Rich-
ard Diebenkorn and Francis Bacon. His take on Stout’s 
portrait was never going to be conventional: “I couldn’t 
do it any other way, and if they’d asked me to I would’ve 
said no.”


Stout remembers his reaction when he first saw the 
finished painting: “Who is that guy?” But he wasn’t 
disappointed. He doesn’t claim to know what the gen-
eral reception was among the other Fellows, but the 
response from Duncan Robinson, art historian and 
then-director of the Yale Center for British Art, stuck 
with him. “He said to me, ‘Skip, you’re going to appre-
ciate this more and more over time.’” Stout grins. “And 
I do appreciate it. It did grow on me.”


Through my conversations with Stout and Beggs, I 
finally know why the green stripe is there (to break up 
the black, and as a subtle nod to Stout’s love for golf). 
I understand the shields, at least somewhat (they add 
dynamism and movement to the painting, and, at least 
according to Stout, evoke Star Wars). 


And, more than I did before, I understand the por-
trait’s appeal. We’re okay with art that is strange and 
shocking being placed in museums. But because Beggs’s 
portrait is showcased in a dining hall, it’s branded as 
“ugly,” an oddity. But if Jeff Koons gets to stack two 
vacuum cleaners on top of each other and have people 
flock to the the Whitney to see it, then shouldn’t we 
be a little more open-minded about an unusual Head 
of College portrait? And maybe, in the end, the dining 
hall is the best place for the painting. At a gallery, it 
might be lost amid all the strangeness, but in Berkeley, 
it’s distinct, even endearing. After talking with Beggs 
and learning the human story behind the painting, I 
felt I appreciated it more. Maybe Duncan Robinson 
was right—the portrait seems to be growing on me.
– Mariah Kreutter is a sophomore 
in Berkeley College.



**Title: THE HOUSE ON ADELINE STREET**
**Author: Laura Glesby**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
There’s a house on the corner of Adeline and Eddy 
Streets that doesn’t fit in. The rest of the block is lined 
with soft-colored clapboard houses with peeling paint or 
dented siding. Many are separated from the sidewalk by 
wire fences, some of which have begun to lean over or 
cave in. But 54 Adeline Street has stark-white wooden 
panels and a dramatic, sloping roof. Large, glossy, rect-
angular bay windows pop out from its sides. Its concrete 
porch contains a built-in metal flower bed. There’s no tra-
ditional front door; instead, an open space in the middle 
of the house beneath the roof serves as the entrance to its 
two apartments. One passing driver slows down to take 
a closer look.  “That’s hot!” he calls, leaning out of his 
window.

But the house isn’t just an anomaly in appearance. It’s 
the final product of the 2017 Jim Vlock Building Project, 
a mandatory program for all first-year graduate students in 
the Yale School of Architecture. Last spring, students were 
tasked with creating a house for homeless city residents. 
After they submitted proposals, their professors collaborat-
ed with Columbus House, a local nonprofit dedicated to 
reducing homelessness, to choose a winning design. Co-
lumbus House acquired the site, a lot in the Hill neigh-
borhood, from the New Haven Housing Authority. The 
Architecture students built the house this past summer. 
In part, the house at 54 Adeline Street was an intel-
lectual exercise for the students, an opportunity to test 
out concepts they had learned in class in the real world. 
The assignment extended beyond just drafting plans for 
a house and seeing it built; students attempted to incor-
porate design features that would take the psychological 
needs of its new residents into consideration. Yet for its 
future inhabitants, this house will be a long-term home––
perhaps their first in a while. How easily can a home built 
to address the challenges of this transition become part of 
the neighborhood?


At an evening ceremony on the first Monday of Oc-
tober, the sleek new house opened for the first time. 
Over a hundred people walked in and out of the empty 
rooms, running their hands across the wood of the cabi-
nets and the thin, white railing along the stairs. One roof 
extended over the gap between the house’s two units—a 
single-bedroom “efficiency” unit meant for one person or 
couple, and a family unit, which has upstairs bedrooms 
intended for parents and children. Each apartment has 
a dishwasher and washing machine. Big, spherical lights 
hang from the ground-floor ceilings. Only the lawn was 
unfinished, a plot of dirt waiting for grass.

Among the visitors were New Haven Mayor Toni Harp, 
Yale President Peter Salovey, and School of Architecture 
Dean Deborah Berke. In a speech in the backyard, Sa-
lovey praised the project as a model for the University’s 
mutually beneficial engagement with New Haven.

In daylight, the house looked conspicuously modern 
and angular, its exterior startlingly clean. But as the sky 
darkened, there was something comforting about it, as 
light filled the windows and people chatted inside. The 
wooden façade glowed faintly blue.

Walking inside the house, it was tempting to picture 
what it would look like when residents move in a few 
weeks later. What the bed in this room would look like, 
what kind of food would be waiting in the fridge. May-
be a child would discover her favorite books curled up in 
that window seat. Maybe someone would lie awake in this 
bedroom, unable to sleep. Maybe the family would play 
board games on the kitchen table. Maybe, when it rains, 
they would leave their umbrellas to dry by the door. But it 
could also take a long time for it to feel like a home.


In 1967, Charles Moore, head of Yale’s Department of 
Architecture––what would eventually become the pro-
fessional School of Architecture––founded the Building 
Project. Moore wanted to give his students practical ex-
perience, but the project was also a response to the stu-
dent activism that roiled Yale during the nineteen-sixties. 
Moore hoped his students would recognize their respon-
sibility as architects to address pressing social issues like 
poverty and homelessness.

For Dan Whitcombe, one of the student project man-
agers and a member of the team that created the winning 
2017 design, the educational aspect of the project was in-
valuable. 
“Not for a while will you be able to design houses as 
you see fit and then have the potential to see them built,” 
he said. Kerry Garikes, the other project manager, said 
that the assignment helped her better understand the 
design potential and restrictions of space. There’s a big 
difference, she added, between creating a room on a com-
puter and watching it materialize on a real block.

In past years, the Building Project has collaborated 
with organizations like Neighborhood Housing Services, 
Breaking Ground (formerly known as Common Ground), 
and Habitat for Humanity to connect the house with a 
family in need of affordable housing. The current part-
nership with Columbus House will last for five years—
one house with two units each year. 
Columbus House will select the future inhabitants of 
54 Adeline Street, and like the residents of the organiza-
tion’s other properties, they will contribute thirty percent 
of their income towards rent. A resident’s income could 
range from anything between $25 and $700 a month, 
according to Alison Cunningham, the CEO of Colum-
bus House. She added that their clients are not simply 
assigned a housing unit, but work with the organization to 
find a home that best fits their needs.

Prior to starting the design process, the Architecture 
students visited a shelter run by Columbus House, as well 
as the homes of several formerly homeless people. Over 
the course of the semester, they met with social workers 
to discuss national and city-wide homelessness, and the 
psychological challenges of transitioning from a shelter 
to a home. 
The students also spoke in small groups with Colum-
bus House clients about what they most desired in a 
home. School of Architecture professor Adam Hopfner, 
who has directed the Building Project since 2007, said the 
clients his students spoke to expressed two primary wish-
es. One was security: in Hopfner’s words, “the emotional 
state of being homeless, the feeling of exposure and vul-
nerability…runs fairly deep.” The other was a connection 
to the neighborhood: “having eyes on the street, being 
able to see one’s neighbors, being able to communicate 
with one’s neighbors,” he said. 
To create a strong sense of safety and stability, Archi-
tecture students designed a roof that extends more than a 
foot beyond the house’s four walls. A sheltered space that 
is open to the street, it creates a buffer zone between the 
interior and exterior of the house. The slope of the roof 
is visible from the inside, too; even on the first floor of 
the two-story family unit, the ceiling above the staircase 
is at an incline. “The presence of the roof is always felt,” 
Hopfner said.

A porch with a built-in planter will curve around the 
house on both Adeline and Eddy Streets, allowing resi-
dents to participate in neighborhood life from a protected 
vantage point. 
These aesthetic considerations cut both ways, Whit-
combe said. “How do we integrate this person visually 
into this community?” he asked. “How do we make this 
house a part of the community, but also account for the 
fact that there are definite anxieties associated with being 
housed for the first time?”



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Laura Glesby**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 13
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
T
he Architecture students attempted to design a house 
that would give its formerly homeless inhabitants a 
pronounced sense of security, comfort, and agency. But 
they also wanted to create a home that would eventually 
integrate into the neighborhood without foregrounding 
its residents’ past. “We didn’t hold back at all and make it 
specifically ‘homeless person-oriented,’” Whitcombe said. 
“I think any of us would be happy to live in this house.” 
Yet the residents of Building Project homes aren’t al-
ways welcomed like any new neighbors. Since 2010, the 
Building Project has created homes in West River, Ne-
whallville, Dwight, and the Hill. Columbus House origi-
nally hoped to build this year’s house in Prospect Hill, but 
it didn’t go over smoothly. According to Hopfner, some 
residents––including the local alderwoman––resisted the 
Architecture School’s attempts to move new residents in. 
They didn’t want to have “homeless” neighbors—despite 
the fact that, of course, their neighbors would no longer 
be homeless, he said. The project ended up being relo-
cated to the Hill, next to a preexisting Columbus House 
property, Valentine Macri Court, which contains seven-
teen units of affordable housing. 

Usually, Columbus House aims to offer services to the 
entire homeless population of New Haven, regardless of 
a person’s criminal background or history of substance 
abuse. But when determining eligibility for the efficiency 
unit of the Building Project house, the organization will 
consider a person’s criminal background, given that chil-
dren will likely live in the family unit next door.

Both Hopfner and Cunningham say that the Hill has 
welcomed the new house with open arms. “We are ex-
cited about the build[ing] of another Yale/Vlock project 
in the Hill and [Yale’s] partnering with the Columbus 
House,” a user named “Hill Resident” wrote in an online 
comment on a July article in the New Haven Independent. 
“We look forward to welcoming the students during the 
build, and the tenants after the units are rented. This ad-
dition will be a wonderful addition to all the ‘good stuff’ 
that is happening and continues to happen in the Hill!”

B
enito Romero, who lives around the corner from the 
new house on Adeline Street, said he has never spo-
ken with the Architecture students and didn’t know that 
formerly homeless tenants would soon occupy the house. 
As he washed his car on the street, he said that the neigh-
borhood is not a close-knit community. “We spend all our 
time working,” he explained in Spanish. Romero com-
mutes to New York City, where he works at an asphalt 
company. His work day begins at five in the morning and 
ends at ten at night. “We hardly spend any time chatting 
with people because we’re not here very often,” he said. 
“We’re working a lot of the time.”

Keith Dowdy was sitting on a porch two houses down 
from the Vlock house. He watched as his nephew, a little 
boy who said his name was “Jacoby Flash Batman Su-
perman,” ran back and forth between the front yard and 
the sidewalk. Dowdy said he had watched the house take 
shape over the course of the summer. “It’s a nice design,” 
he said. “Probably too much for this neighborhood. Like, 
a house with that design needs to be on a lake or some-
thing.”

The Architecture students were clearly visitors to the 
neighborhood, Dowdy said. “It’s part of their grade for 
their semester. Imagine a house in a neighborhood where 
all the houses are ranging from four-hundred to a half a 
million [dollars], and then you see that.” He pointed to a 
single-story house across the street, with a slightly dent-
ed metal gate. “It’s like, really? And that’s how [the new 
house] is, just the opposite.”

Dowdy mentioned that the School of Architecture built 
another house in the neighborhood—the 2010 Building 
Project home on King’s Place. It had looked jarring at 
first, but now seemed like a part of the neighborhood. “It’s 
older now,” he said. “It was just put up for a minute, and 
people lived in it. Once all the hoopla was over, it just 
started being a regular old house.”
 – Laura Glesby is a first-year 
in Timothy Dwight College.
“HOW DO WE MAKE THIS HOUSE 
A PART OF THE COMMUNITY, BUT 
ALSO ACCOUNT FOR THE FACT 
THAT THERE ARE DEFINITE ANX-
IETIES ASSOCIATED WITH BEING 
HOUSED FOR THE FIRST TIME?”


**Title: Eleven Hours**
**Author: Dimitri Diagne**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

 14
E S S AY
ELEVEN HOURS
Grappling with loss in the shadow of the eclipse
Dimitri Diagne
E
leven hours. My grandfather is dead. Depart PDX 
1:15, arrive PHL 11:57, with a brief layover in Min-
neapolis. Before that, three hours from Newport to 
Portland, and two hours for check-in. The bus picks me 
up from the Hatfield Marine Science Center dormitories 
at 6:00 a.m. Seven minutes of goodbyes to my thirteen 
fellow interns, plus twenty for breakfast, plus making sure 
I didn’t forget anything, plus five to rub the sleep out my 
eyes. Later, an hour-long drive from the airport back to 
the Philadelphia suburbs, through a balmy Mid-Atlantic 
summer night. Twenty-one hours. My grandfather is dead.

My mother and aunt were in Madison, Wisconsin, 
organizing the funeral. The service would take place at 
Milwaukee’s St. Sava Serbian Orthodox Cathedral, where 
my grandfather had chaired the founding board. The 
funeral itself would take place an hour and a half south 
of Milwaukee, in Libertyville, a Chicago suburb and the 
center of American Serbdom. King Peter II, who died in 
exile during the Yugoslav years, was buried in the ornately 
frescoed church there, until his recent exhumation and 
reburial in Serbia. My grandfather would be interred out-
side, up the hill from his immigrant parents and all the 
other deceased relatives on my mother’s side. When my 
parents and I drive from Philadelphia to New York, I get 
a glimpse of the harbor from the I-95. I like to imagine 
those ancestors seeing the Statue of Liberty as their steam-
ers approached Ellis Island. I like to think that they were 
overjoyed.

My plane reached Philadelphia a few minutes early, 
but my father had already parked the car and was wait-
ing at the doors of the security area. He is used to long 
days of air travel, and wary of its unpredictable rhythms. I 
don’t remember whether he had a thermos of coffee in his 
hand, as he often does late at night. “Bonjour, mon fils. 
Je t’aime,” he said, and we hugged. I told him it was good 
to be back, that I was very glad to see him, and I was. The 
next day, we would travel to Milwaukee for the funeral. I 
was relieved not to be going alone.

My father pulled the car into our driveway at about 
1:30 am on August 25. My birthday was on August 21. My 
grandfather’s death was on August 20. On August 19, I 
went snorkeling. My marine biologist friends and I drove 
down to the jetty that lines the mouth of the Yaquina River 
on the Pacific Ocean. We followed the line of black boul-
ders towards the ocean, trying to escape Yaquina Bay’s 
soupy waters. But the tide was going out, bringing with it 
all the small crustaceans, algae, and detritus of the fertile 
estuary. Below the cloudless sky, we put on our wetsuits 
and dove into waters rich with plankton, and undergirded 
by rocks covered in sea stars and anemones. We fought 
the tide, which was dragging us towards the ocean. After 
a half hour, our faces and hands began to go numb, so 
we climbed out into the warm air. We wrestled our wet-
BUT THE TIDE WAS GOING OUT, 
BRINGING WITH IT ALL THE SMALL 
CRUSTACEANS, ALGAE, AND 
DETRITUS OF THE FERTILE ESTUARY.


---Page 15---

suits off of our bodies, and walked back down the jetty. 
Squinting under a constant volley of windblown sand and 
the reflection of the sun on the white dunes, I felt dis-
oriented but relaxed, as one feels after waking up from a 
long and unintended nap. A half hour after we emerged 
from the water, my mother texted me that my grandfather 
was in the hospital, this time for something very serious. 
That evening, when my aunt realized he would not wake 
up from his afternoon nap, she held her cellphone up to 
his ear, and I offered him a final narrative of my life. I 
told him about swimming and running on the beach, and 
said that I was happy and that I loved him. At 2:30 a.m., I 
received the message. My grandfather is dead.

The next day, I walked through the marshes outside the 
science center, and went to my lab early. There, I raced to 
measure the weights of enough dried shrimp to complete 
my summer research project, but unlike the week before, 
I was not anxiously thinking of statistical tests or sample 
sizes or finding previous studies on parasitic castration. I 
had not been stressed about my research the day before, 
either, as I sat with my friends in a beachfront café, regain-
ing the warmth stolen by pacific waters. Following my 
mother’s message, the impending death of my grandfather 
had become the only thing worth worrying about. By the 
next day, his death had removed even this concern. There 
was no more uncertainty, only a thick, dim sadness under 
which I strolled through the marsh and played beach vol-
leyball after work, looking forward to tomorrow, when the 
sun would disappear.

August 21, the day of my twenty-first birthday, the day 
after my grandfather’s death, was also the day of the total 
eclipse. By luck, I was interning in a region of Oregon 
which lay right in the path of totality. To avoid the coastal 
fog of Newport, nine of the other interns and I headed 
East to the interior Willamette Valley on the night of the 
twentieth. At 9:45 a.m. the next morning, in Corvallis, 
Oregon, we walked up a forested hill, hoping to catch the 
first darkened sliver of the sun.

The sun is the diplomat of time. It makes time tan-
gible on Earth. Flowers open and close with it. Insects, 
birds, and frogs time their calls to it. Air and water grow 
cold and hot, and the onshore wind becomes an offshore 
wind at dusk, vice versa at dawn. We sleep and wake with 
the sun, knowing that a day has passed. I have heard that 
people locked in a sunless room risk losing their sense of 
time. The constancy of the sun makes its disappearance, 
and the ensuing twilight, jarring. Its authority over us is 
undermined—we realize that its presence is subject to 
something else, to the frail moon passing over it, suddenly 
converting day into dusk, exposing planets, dropping the 
temperature, and illuminating the headlights of cars on 
the highway below us. The sun’s temporal authority is top-
pled with seeming randomness, and the day and its inhab-
itants become liberated from time. Until we have forgot-
ten the unmistakable shades of that late morning twilight 
and the sun has firmly reclaimed its reputation, the day is 
a free day, unbound from the laws of time. This is what I 
felt as we walked down the hill, picking wild blackberries 
from the brambles beside a path through a wide field. At 
10:50 a.m., the sun had vanished, and a day before, my 
grandfather had died. WHAT WAS I OBLIGED TO DO, WHAT 
COULD I DO, BESIDES ENJOY THE 
BERRIES AND THE WARM LIGHT OF A 
CLOUDLESS SKY?

My friends and I drove to a bar with a large patio and a 
DJ. Still there was no obligation to time—Monday, mid-
day, and people were sitting at picnic tables, slouching 
over cocktails and beer, discussing, as we always have, 
the mysteries of the sky. Because it was hot and early, I 
chose a cider as my first legal drink. Before I could object, 
Dustin had ordered himself a cocktail and paid for both 
of us. As the others ordered, the two of us walked out-
side and claimed a table. I felt unusually calm, sipping 
my cider there. There was nothing more to worry about—
not death, not the disappearing sun, not even handing 
my ID to a bartender. All of these had already happened. 
My cider was light, I was content. The sun was warm. My 
grandfather is dead.

The sun was also warm in Libertyville on August 27. 
At the cemetery, I carried the large white cross that in 
Serbian Orthodoxy serves as a temporary grave marking. 
Behind me was the priest, his censer perfuming the air 
with frankincense, his chanting amplified by that smell. 
My father, my uncle, and the other pallbearers lay the 
casket on metal bars stretched across the open grave, and 
I propped the cross against it. My mother and aunt stood 
beside the casket, alone, as the priest recited prayers over 
it. The priest poured grain on it, in the shape of a cross. 
He poured wine over the grain. The mourners dispersed 
and gathered around a nearby folding table that supported 
three bottles—one of brandy, one of the plum brandy 
sljivovica, and one of ginger ale—a baking pan of warm, 
sweet pogaca bread, honey, and a dish of koljivo, the
THE SUN IS THE DIPLOMAT OF TIME. 
IT MAKES TIME TANGIBLE ON EARTH.



**Title: [Untitled]**
**Author: Dmitri Diagne**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
funerary wheat pudding adorned with raisins in the shape 
of a cross. On the suggestion of Kum Greg, my honorary 
uncle, he, my father, my Uncle Ken, and I each filled 
a shot glass of sljivovica and walked back to the grave. 
Because my father is Muslim and does not drink, it was 
his job to pour his glass over the casket. The rest of us 
drank ours.

My grandfather is dead, and cannot drink. He is drink-
ing sljivovica in heaven, Kum Greg said, with the war-
rior Drazha Mihaijlovic and the warrior-king Karadjordje 
Petrovic and the poet-king Petar Petrovic Njegos. Perhaps 
they are sitting in a valley between two jagged Montene-
grin peaks, listening to the poems of a guslar and his one-stringed lute drift over the hills. Here, in Libertyville, the 
songs are those of cicadas. They are singing because the 
sun is out.
– Dmitri Diagne is a senior
in Berkeley College.


**Title: The Perimeter**
**Author: Amelia Nierenberg**
**Page number(s): 17-18**

D
awn Slade knows everyone and everything 
on Dixwell Avenue. Walking up the street—
which runs north from downtown New Haven 
and Yale University toward Hamden—one morning 
this past spring, she nodded at Lake Place, where many 
residents are Yale undergraduates.
“Look at them, on Lake and Broadway,” she said. 
“You started to see them inching up. Inching, inching, 
inching.”

Born in 1960, Slade grew up in Dixwell and now 
lives in Beaver Hills, a nearby neighborhood. She is 
the cofounder and executive director of Nuts About 
Health, Inc., a nonprofit that promotes healthy living 
for lower-income families. She walks over a mile every 
Sunday to the Varick Memorial AME Zion Church­— 
founded in the eighteen-hundreds by former slaves and 
home to a pulpit from which Booker T. Washington 
delivered his final public address—which she attended 
with her grandmother every weekend during her child-
hood. Nine historically Black churches line the half-
mile stretch of Dixwell Avenue from Lake Place to 
Henry Street. 

For every storefront on Dixwell Avenue, Dawn has 
a memory: she would skip past this store on her way 
home from school; her grandmother’s friends would 
shop at that one; this was one of the first Black-owned 
businesses in New Haven. She remembers the tightly 
knit neighborhood community of her childhood in the 
nineteen-seventies, the crippling effects of the War on 
Drugs in the eighties, the vacancy and crime of the 
nineties.

Now, she watches the neighborhood change again, 
becoming more residential and less Black. Slade 
pointed across Dixwell Avenue at a Yale-owned parking 
lot. 
“You can see them keep moving down, keep mov-
ing, keep moving.” She waved a long-fingered hand at 
free-standing brownstones and half-boarded-up busi-
nesses. 
“Them,” for Slade and many other Dixwell residents, 
means Yale University. Dixwell has seen many changes 
in the past twenty years. In the past decade, as Yale has 
acquired properties in Dixwell and offered its employ-
ees financial incentives to move into New Haven, some 
Dixwell residents have felt as though Yale’s expansion 
benefits only the University.

Yale administrators are quick to point out that the 
University is New Haven’s largest employer, attracts 
millions of dollars worth of federal grants to the city 
each year, and has helped thousands of its employees 
buy their own homes in places like Dixwell through 
the Yale Homebuyer Program. 

The University has over forty major properties in 
the Dixwell neighborhood but few on Dixwell Avenue 
itself, one of which is a residence run through Elm 
Campus, a real estate company that works on behalf 
of the University. Both properties are situated near the 
center of campus, right at the junction of Downtown 
New Haven and Dixwell.
“They have the resources to do it. All they’ve got is 
money and time,” Slade said, referring to the Universi-
ty’s influence in Dixwell. “This all’s going to be ‘Yales-
ville’ real soon.”

I
nstead of the royal blue plaques that mark campus 
buildings, Yale’s presence in Dixwell has taken 
the form of the next-door neighbor. For example, 
Annette Tracey, who has worked in the Berkeley din-
ing hall for decades, now lives in Dixwell. She bought 
her home behind the Payne Whitney Gym through 
the Homebuyer Program, which was created in 1994 
to better integrate Yale with New Haven by partially 
subsidizing employees’ home purchases. 

Tracey’s house is just a few minutes’ walk from Dix-
well Avenue, which Slade calls  “a main artery” of 
the neighborhood. The street is also a dividing line 
between what residents consider the two sides of the 
neighborhood: “up-the-hill” (“all of that is Yale,” Slade 
said) and “down-the-hill” which remains mostly Black, 
filled with rental housing properties. Up-the-hill is in 
Ward 22, down-the-hill in Ward 2. 

According to the 2010 census, a little over 10,460 peo-
ple live in the half square mile that com-
prise the Dixwell neighborhood. Nearly 
sixty percent of Dixwell residents are 
Black. For comparison, the entire city of 
New Haven—nearly forty times the size 
of the neighborhood—has almost one 
hundred thirty thousand residents, only 
35.4 percent of whom are Black. 

A little further away from Dixwell 
Avenue, Prospect Street is growing into 
another artery in the neighborhood, one 
more populated by Yale buildings and 
students. There, on the southeast corner 
of up-the-hill Dixwell, Yale’s two newest 
residential colleges, Benjamin Franklin 
and Pauli Murray, opened this past fall 
to house two hundred new undergradu-
ate students. Many permanent residents 
of Dixwell believe the new colleges will 
widen economic disparities between sites 
of Yale’s interest in Dixwell and, in partic-
ular, down-the-hill. 

n the early two-thousands, the Univer-
sity began buying properties near the 
Grove Street Cemetery, which sits in 
the southeast corner of Dixwell. In 2002, 
Yale purchased a commercial laundry 
facility north of the cemetery. In 2006, the Rose Cen-
ter west of the cemetery opened on Ashmun Street, 
housing both the Yale Police Department and the 
Dixwell-Yale Community Learning Center. That same 
year, the University pledged half a million dollars to 
revitalize Scantlebury Park to the north, just months 
after paying the city ten million dollars to purchase 
adjacent land. 

In 2008, Yale publicly announced its plans to open 
two new residential colleges on that land. After a two 
hundred fifty million dollar gift from University alum-
nus Charles B. Johnson, the new colleges quickly took 
shape on lower Prospect Street, and are now part of the 
ebb and flow of daily campus life.

Planning for the colleges began in 2006 with an 
agreement between Yale and New Haven. After acquir-
ing the property for the new colleges, Yale worked 
closely with the city on zoning and mapping around 
the neighborhood, said Bruce Alexander, Yale’s Vice 
President for New Haven and State Affairs in a video-
taped press conference this past August.
“That was pretty good to get a unanimous vote out 
of the Board of Alders. That’s pretty hard to do in any 
event for almost anything,” he said. The vote in favor 
of this project in the board of alders was thirty to zero, 
he said. 

There had been speculation about plans to open new 
colleges since at least 2000, when an article published 
in the Yale Alumni Magazine by Mark Alden Branch 
said that the area to the north of the Grove Street 
Cemetery might be “sites for new buildings to further 
populate the area—perhaps the pair of new residential 
colleges that have long been discussed but that are not 
on the immediate horizon.”

John DeStefano, Jr., who served as the mayor of New 
Haven from 1994 to 2013, worked closely with former 
University President Richard Levin to develop the Uni-
versity’s real estate focus over those two decades. 
“[Yale] had a plan that was developed by the late 
nineteen-nineties to outline campus expansion, partic-
ularly northward movement,” he said.

The plan to which DeStefano alludes is the Univer-
sity’s Framework for Campus Planning, envisioned in 
1997 by New York-based architecture urban design firm 
Cooper, Robertson & Partners. The document, which 
was released to the public in 2000, outlines real estate 
and architectural plans to the north of the Grove Street 
Cemetery. In one map showing the areas around Yale, 
a sketch of future planning superimposes the word “res-
illustration Marianne Ayala



**Title: The Yale Homebuyer Program and its Impact on Dixwell**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 19
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
idential” over the area, although the buildings were, 
at the time, either vacant or unoccupied. Another part 
of the framework suggests that “joint efforts [between 
the city and the University] could make connections 
between Yale and the surrounding neighborhoods safer 
and more attractive.”
DeStefano knows this history first-hand. According to 
the Yale Alumni Magazine article, he suggested a joint 
project with Yale in the area. Lead architect of the firm 
Alexander Cooper is quoted in the article as saying, 
“The Mayor looked at the map and said that if you look 
at Yale as a clock, and if you observe that everywhere 
Yale goes, it improves the surrounding area, then what’s 
missing is the area from nine to twelve—the Dixwell 
neighborhood.”
“So although it was not directly articulated that way 
in any discussion I was ever in, there was a particular 
concern around edge neighborhoods around the cam-
pus,” he said. Dixwell was a target because campus 
expansion would “by definition” move into adjacent 
neighborhoods. 
“Before Yale built the residential colleges, it built 
the perimeter,” DeStefano said. 
T
his “perimeter” effect hasn’t only been around 
the expansion of the new colleges—it has filled 
home vacancies in neighborhoods adjacent to 
campus. The Yale Homebuyer Program assists in this 
mission by offering university employees grants of 
thirty thousand dollars over eleven years if they buy 
homes in East Rock, Beaver Hills, Wooster Square, 
Dixwell, Newhallville, Dwight, the Hill, Fair Haven, 
or West Rock. 
“The Yale Homebuyer program was created to 
encourage Yale staff and faculty to put down roots in 
New Haven and become part of the community,” wrote 
Karen King, a Community Affairs Associate with the 
Office of New Haven and State Affairs, in an email 
this month. “The Yale University Homebuyer Program 
strengthens [New Haven’s] tax base.”
Tom Conroy, Director of the University’s Office of 
Public Affairs & Communications, wrote in an email 
that the “Homebuyer Program is just one of the ways 
in which Yale contributes to the economic and social 
progress of New Haven,” also pointing to the New 
Haven Promise program. “Yale makes the largest vol-
untary payment of any university in the nation to any 
city in the nation,” he added. 


Forty-four of the program’s homebuyers work in ser-
vice and staff positions at the University and are mem-
bers of Local 34 and 35, according to Conroy. This 
is more than the percentage of both faculty and also 
professional staff who have bought homes through the 
program. Collectively, Yale employees have purchased 
homes with a total market value of approximately two 
hundred five million dollars. Yale has spent more than 
twenty-eight million dollars on the program since 1994. 
But since May 2002, in addition to the standard 
amount, the grant has included a five thousand dollar 
bonus in the first year for homebuyers in Dixwell—if 
they live up-the-hill. In fact, the description of the spe-
cial incentive essentially stipulates that all homes eligi-
ble for the benefit must be within the limits of Ward 22. 
This additional rebate was introduced six years before 
the official 2008 announcement that Yale would build 
new colleges on Prospect Street. 
According to research at DataHaven, the 06511 zip 
code—which includes Dwight, Beaver Hills, Dixwell, 
Newhallville, East Rock and Wooster Square—had 
a twenty-eight percent increase in home values from 
2004 to 2015, the largest in the state. The average sin-
gle-family home in 2015 was worth $75,908 more than 
it would have been in 2004. By contrast, values in other 
New Haven zip codes remained relatively flat.
“At what point does it inflate housing values?” DeSte-
fano asked. “You’re creating an artificial subsidy.” He 
paused. “One could suggest it is inflating values for 
other properties by introducing this subsidy that, if it 
wasn’t there, wouldn’t be elevating properties.”
Yet Conroy contends that the program and its Dix-
well-specific benefit is simply meant to “focus on the 
neighborhoods that would benefit from increased 
homeownership.”
“We certainly reject [the] contention that the Home-
buyer Program has been detrimental to Dixwell or any 
other eligible neighborhood,” he added.  
When pressed about why only Dixwell has a special 
incentive, Conroy said: “It exists to attract homebuyers, 
and if it helps a Yale employee decide to buy a home 
there rather than outside the the city, that’s good for 
New Haven.”
Although it would be impossible to frame the Home-
buyer Program as the primary cause of this increase in 
home value, Yale’s efforts to make New Haven more 
of a destination have undoubtedly impacted its hous-
ing market. Some people who have lived in Dixwell 
for decades are now moving out, unable to afford their 
rents or unsettled in a neighborhood that grows increas-


“BEFORE YALE BUILT THE 
RESIDENTIAL COLLEGES, IT BUILT 
THE PERIMETER.”


--- Page 20 ---

 20
ingly unfamiliar. 

S
lade remembers the Dixwell of the nineteen-sev-
enties as a vibrant and close-knit neighborhood.
“My grandma lived at 225 Ashmun in a high-
rise apartment building,” she said. “The place was 
immaculate. You could eat off the hallway floors. They 
called this ‘the projects,’ but we didn’t feel like we lived 
in the projects because it was community.”
World War I pumped capital into New Haven’s arms 
manufacturing sectors and the Great Migration brought 
Black southerners into northern cities. A popular com-
munity center called the Q House opened in 1924 on 
Dixwell Avenue, and historically Black churches like 
the Varick Memorial AME Zion Church, which was 
born in 1796 and officially established in 1820, dot the 
street. 

Dixwell also had a vibrant jazz culture. Every Friday 
and Saturday night, famous musicians stopped in the 
neighborhood on their way from New York to Boston, 
playing at famous jazz clubs like the Democratic Club, 
the Musician’s Club, and the Korners Club—all now 
boarded-up storefronts or delicatessens along Dixwell 
Avenue. Many elderly residents remember nights of 
dancing until sunrise or meeting some of the greatest 
musicians of the era in their own backyards. 

In the following decades, manufacturing began to 
decline and New Haven entered a period of steadily 
rising unemployment. In 1954, thirty-three percent of 
New Haven residents were employed by the indus-
try; by 1977, it was fourteen percent. White residents 
moved out to the suburbs and New Haven became 
a poorer, Blacker city, eventually becoming majority 
Black in 1990. 

Speaking about the seventies and eighties, Slade 
began walking faster up Dixwell Ave., running her 
thumb quickly back and forth over her knuckles. She 
had spent time in the Elm Haven Housing Projects, 
which were managed by the New Haven Housing 
Authority. In the eighties, she witnessed the dramatic 
reduction of essential city services like neighborhood 
maintenance and policing. 

“At the same time, New Haven is flooded with drugs, 
and employment opportunities dry up,” she said. 
“These factors fertilize a breeding ground of decay and 
brokenness.”
During the War on Drugs, reports of violent crime 
increased dramatically. In 1960, there were 64.5 crimes 
per hundred-thousand; in 1970, there were four hun-
dred; in 1980, there were over one thousand five hun-
dred. According to research from the Yale Law School, 
the New Haven Police Department responded with 
brutal force, deploying a “beat down posse”—a street 
unit that focused on eradicating drug crime—mostly 
comprised of white officers. This group would bring 
dogs and white vans to Dixwell, targeting Black men 
and often arresting them on low-level drug offenses.
By the nineteen-nineties, New Haven was at its most 
economically desolate. In 1994, the same year that the 
Homebuyer Program started, GQ magazine published 
an enormous, inflammatory piece called “The Last 
Boola Boola,” describing New Haven as a “war zone of 
poverty, crime, and drugs as frightening as any Amer-
ican city.” In 1991, crime in New Haven touched the 
Yale community with the murder of Christian Prince, a 
student who was shot on Hillhouse Avenue.
DeStefano remembers “an extraordinarily large 
number of vacant properties” during those years. He 
said there was a  strong desire on the part of both the 
city and the University to create the Homebuyer’s Pro-
gram, which would hopefully make city blocks safer, 
cleaner, and more inhabited.  
“Good things don’t happen in vacant buildings,” he 
said.
Slade paused, looking down Foote Street towards 
Ashmun, where her grandmother’s apartment building 
used to be. Then she turned to walk up Dixwell again. 
She remembered cuts to affordable housing programs, 
cuts to art programs in schools, and cuts to library bud-
gets.
“You cut all that and then you make people live 
like animals. And only then do you ask, ‘What’s wrong 
with these people?’ What sent people out initially was 
just pure neglect,” Slade said, walking in silence for a 
while. “By the time the nineties came around, nobody 
wanted to be here. Would you?”


“BY THE TIME THE NINETIES 
CAME AROUND, NOBODY 
WANTED TO BE HERE. WOULD 
YOU?”


--- Page 21 ---

 21
Since the nineteen-nineties, crime, particularly in 
the areas of New Haven that surround Yale, has 
declined. Nationally, the economy has improved. 
From the perspective of Richard Cleary, a white resi-
dent who has lived on Mansfield Street in up-the-hill 
Dixwell since 1979, Yale’s involvement in the neighbor-
hood has yielded only positive effects.
Cleary served as a civil engineer for years and lives 
in the upstairs apartment of a two-story home with a 
turquoise porch and tiled floors. “The street’s gone up 
and down,” he said. “Right now, it’s quite good. And 
of course, one of the reasons is that Yale has security 
types, uniformed security types around here.”
 Cleary lived on Mansfield Street in the eighties 
and nineties, back when city residents called it “Man-
slaughter Street.” Cleary recounted an assault when he 
ran out to the street to protect his downstairs neighbor 
from a violent mugging. Now, he said, he feels much 
safer.
 Over the years, Yale has paid special attention to 
Mansfield Street, which DeStefano called “clearly 
an edge street.” According to the website of Yale real 
estate company Elm Campus Partners, there are twen-
ty-seven Yale-owned houses and rental  apartments 
on that street, mostly populated by graduate students. 
These properties join the commercial holdings at Lake 
Place and Dixwell Avenue, the Rose Center housing 
the Yale Police Department and Yale Health, and the 
new residential colleges. Altogether, it’s over forty real 
estate holdings. 

 DeStefano laughed dismissively at the implication 
of a causal relationship between Yale’s real estate devel-
opment the area’s declining rate of crime.“It’s not like 
Yale bought some houses on Mansfield Street and the 
freaking crime rate dropped,” he said. “There’s a lot 
more going on than that.”
Cleary welcomes the increased presence of law 
enforcement officers. “It’s basically crime-free now,” 
he said.
 Although he had not heard of the Dixwell-specific 
incentive, he knew of the Homebuyer Program. “Of 
course the University would want to have a solid neigh-
borhood,” he said. “They’d want a border or a periph-
ery around campus. Why? It’s so obvious. Why do you 
not want to be hit over the head? Why would you not 
want your students and employees to be safe?” 

A
lder Jeanette Morrison, who has represented 
New Haven’s Ward 22 since 2011, oversees all 
the parts of Dixwell covered by the extra rebate. 
Before the construction of the Pauli Murray and Benja-
min Franklin, Ward 22 already housed four residential 
colleges: Ezra Stiles and Morse to the West and Timo-
thy Dwight to the East. The new colleges on Prospect 
Street will pump more than six hundred voters into the 
existing three thousand currently living in Ward 22, 
transitioning the electorate from majority permanent 
city residents to a constituency split between the two 
populations: students and permanent residents. Yale 
votes are becoming a greater component of Ward 22 
votes, influencing up-the-hill Dixwell. As more stu-
dents in the new colleges register to vote, this tilt will 
only continue.
Today, almost thirty years after the devastation of 
the nineties, vacancy is no longer a glaring problem in 
New Haven housing. In fact, according to real estate 
research firm Reis Inc., New Haven had the lowest 
apartment vacancy rate in the nation at 2.1 percent, 
beating out the notoriously oversaturated New York 
City housing market’s 2.4 percent vacancy rate. Fewer 
vacant apartments in New Haven drove up housing 
prices, pushing low-income residents into more expen-
sive rentals or neighboring towns like Hamden or 
Bridgeport. Now, the issue isn’t vacancy. It’s the lack of 
affordable housing, pricing residents out of rentals and, 
as a result, out of Dixwell. 

 According to a 2016 Brookings Institution study of 
inequality in cities, New Haven was sixth on the list of 
all U.S. cities with the greatest gap between the richest 
and the poorest. In New Haven, the top earners had 
15.3 times the income of the poorest residents. That 

“IT’S NOT LIKE YALE BOUGHT 
SOME HOUSES ON MANSFIELD 
STREET AND THE FREAKING 
CRIME RATE DROPPED.”



**Title: The New Haven Housing Market: A Tale of Two Cities**
**Author: Amelia Nierenberg**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 22
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
same study found that New Haven’s income inequality 
gap has widened the fastest of any city since the Great 
Recession. 

“Both the President and Vice President of Yale live 
in my ward,” Morrison said. “And you have some of the 
poorest in Dixwell, too.”

Considering rising inequality in the neighborhood, 
due in no small part to housing stabilization, DeSte-
fano wondered about the intention of the Homebuyer 
Program’s special incentive in Dixwell. Mansfield is 
not exactly unstable at the moment, and neither is the 
rest of “up-the-hill” Dixwell. He pointed to the safer 
neighborhood statistics and over-saturated housing 
market. 

“Are we trying to fill vacant housing?” he asked rhe-
torically. 

That used to be the intention. But now?
 “Well, to be honest with you, filling vacant housing 
is not a problem in New Haven at this moment,” he 
said. “Forget the downtown rental market, I’m talking 
about the neighborhood rental market.” He spread his 
hands wide. “It’s not a problem! So what are we trying 
to do?”

Despite what Slade describes as the “doom and 
gloom” of the period, the lower property values associ-
ated with Dixwell’s vacancies in the nineties allowed its 
poorer residents to keep living there. 

“A lot of people are angry in feeling that Yale has 
their hands in everything going on and only does what 
is expedient for them,” said Bridgette Russell, who 
works for the New Haven Neighborhood Housing Ser-
vices (NHS), an organization that helps low- and mid-
dle-income residents of New Haven purchase homes. 
 “As Yale usurped more of the properties, the land-
scape was changing,” she said. “Those prices just esca-
lated in the nineties as a lot of change started to take 
place.”

  Russell, who has worked at NHS for over a decade, 
believes her job has become much more urgent since 
she started because the housing market in New Haven 
has become so constricted. She tells her clients to expe-
dite their homebuying processes. 

“You need to own. At least then you have some 
power. If you’re renting, there’s a greater chance you 
will be pushed out.” She paused and reconsidered. “In 
fact, if you don’t own a home, you’re eventually going 
to be pushed out.”


A 
few blocks away from Cleary’s home, Slade 
stopped in front of a small, brown building. 
Inside, behind windows made from squares of 
thick antiqued glass, there is a large, empty space. On 
the front, a rumpled yellow sign: “FOR RENT: Stu-
– Amelia Nierenberg is a senior
 in Timothy Dwight College.
dio Apt.” And another: “FOR LEASE: 1000 sq. ft.” The 
house behind it has slats missing on the front, a board-
ed-up window on the second floor. A closed deli and 
grocery store are next door. According to Slade, this 
little brown building with the wavy glass window used 
to be the spot for jazz in Dixwell. Now, she’s heard 
rumors that developers are going to tear it down.

“New Haven is the tale of two cities,” Slade said as 
she walked away up Dixwell Avenue again. “The best 
of times and the worst of times. The home of the fit and 
the fat, the home of the have and the have-nots.”

Longtime Dixwell residents watching their neigh-
borhood change say they feel left behind. Although the 
neighborhood has grown wealthier and safer during the 
past two decades, in part through the influence of Yale 
and city-wide policies, some residents see only part of 
that population—the up-the-hill, Yale part—reaping 
the benefits. It seems that the disconnect between the 
bell tower of the Varick Memorial AME Zion Church 
on Dixwell Avenue and the bell tower of Pauli Murray 


**Title: Old Lyme**
**Author: Olivia Noble**
**Page number(s): 23**

 23
OLD LYME
P O E M
Someone in the classroom 
has written their report on Lyme disease, 
and speaks with earnest gravity
about prevalence, arthritis, 
the climate, guinea fowl.

Talented birds: they hunt lawns, peck
at the stone walls, eating ticks
like potato chips. 

The presenter calls this 
the urban legend of Martha’s Vineyard.

Now we look back
at the deer, all of the deer 
and dogs and white-footed mice. 

We switch slides, go through 
our neighbors with the same afflictions,
all watching the ground
with sideways eyes. 

Here they are: each
the point of a decimal, a speck,
discrete, a single bead,
the low hell of them swung 
on the ends of heavy grasses, 
questing, with front legs up 
in passionate supplication. 

They latch on as birthmarks, 
sit, and swell.

illustration fiona drenttel
– Olivia Noble is a junior in 
Grace Hopper College.
Olivia Noble


**Title: From the Ground Up**
**Author: Mark Rosenberg**
**Page number(s): 24**

 24
FROM 
THE 
GROUND 
UP
 by
 Mark Rosenberg
illustration julia hedges
photos mark rosenberg



**Title: Valerie's Escape**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 25-26**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 25
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
I
t took Valerie over 
three years to escape her 
abusive partner. “I moved 
three or four times,” she said. 
“I had to start all over again. 
I had to change my job, the 
vehicle I drove, everything.”
In 2013, Valerie’s partner 
began to act erratically and 
stopped taking his medications. (Victims’ names have 
been changed to protect their identities.) She met with 
her partner’s mental health counselors repeatedly to try 
to stabilize their relationship, but he began to make ver-
bal threats against her. In July 2014, she contacted the 
New Haven Police Department, seeking protection for 
herself and her two children, both under ten years old. 
An officer drove her to a police substation across the 
city from her home. But the officers she met there were 
unsympathetic.
“My very first interaction with them was awful,” Val-
erie said. “They were on their cell phones when taking 
their report. They talked down to me. They knew the 
person I was trying to get away from. Their response was, 
‘What did you expect?’”
That July, Valerie filed for a restraining order, but her 
partner began to break into her home when she was out. 
She contacted the State Police for help, but officers told 
her they couldn’t take action without concrete proof. By 
the year’s end, the situation grew dire. “He showed up 
to my house and said he was going to shoot his gun in 
my face so that no man would ever want to be with me,” 
Valerie said. “That was when I moved.”
For Valerie, the cops’ indifference was merely the 
beginning of an arduous search for safety. After meeting 
with the police, she went to the New Haven office of 
the Connecticut Department of Children and Families, 
but the caseworkers there blamed her for parental neg-
ligence; eventually, she found a caseworker in another 
town. It took two more visits from the state police 
before, in October 2015, Valerie got in contact with a 
victim advocate at the Superior Court on Elm Street 
who referred her to the Umbrella Center for Domestic 
Violence Services, the local support agency. The advo-
cate offered to help Valerie move out of Connecticut 
to protect herself, but her partner further escalated his 
threats, promising to kill Valerie’s family one at a time 
and murder her when she came back for the funeral. 
Fearing for their safety, most of Valerie’s family members 
got gun permits.
Later that month, the police set up a sting operation 
with Valerie to subdue and arrest her partner. She went 
back to the Superior Court to seek criminal charges, and, 
aware that he could be released at any time, sought to 
terminate his parental rights at the civil court on Church 
Street. This January, over a year after the arrest, Valerie 
testified against her partner in court. After that last trial, 
he’s in jail for the foreseeable future. But Valerie’s kids 
don’t play in the same parks as they used to. She no lon-
ger sees any of her old friends. By the time her partner’s 
sentence ends, she expects to have changed her name, 
making her transformation complete.
Valerie’s case is, in many ways, typical. In Greater New 
Haven, it often takes a victim of domestic violence—


Domestic violence is on the rise in 
New Haven. Can a proposed 
center provide the support 
victims need? 
VALERIE’S KIDS DON’T PLAY IN THE 
SAME PARKS AS THEY USED TO. SHE 
NO LONGER SEES ANY OF HER OLD 
FRIENDS. 


more than three-quarters of whom are female—at least 
twenty-five hours to meet with all of the advocates she 
needs to start the recovery process. Victims must set up 
appointment after appointment with law enforcement 
officers, lawyers, and counselors, often traveling to each 
one on slow bus lines over several days, just to begin to 
find a path to safety.
“Having to be referred to three or four different loca-
tions, do an intake three or four times, and meet with 
three or four different people, it gets to be a lot on your 
plate,” Valerie said. “It almost deters you to get the sup-
port you need.” For low-income victims working full-
time jobs, the hours required to see a case to its conclu-
sion can be prohibitive.
This summer, local support providers and officials 
made a push to change the system. New Haven Mayor 
Toni Harp and newly-appointed Police Chief Anthony 
Campbell backed a plan to build a new facility called 
the Hope Family Justice Center of Greater New Haven, 
where victims of domestic violence would be able to 
access counseling, legal aid, law enforcement protec-
tion, and child care, among other services, in a cen-
tralized location. The family justice center model has 
helped victims in cities from San Diego to New York, 
and New Haven support advocates have been pushing 
to create one for over a decade. Project planners hope to 
open the facility in downtown New Haven, close to the 
city’s courthouses and along public transit lines, as soon 
as two years from now.
The facility could make it easier for thousands of 
victims in Greater New Haven to escape their abusers 
and establish a new household elsewhere. But in a city 
with rising rates of domestic violence, there are other 
issues the center may not be able to fix. Agencies are 
strapped for resources: legal advocates are overworked, 
shelters across the state are out of beds, and an outdated 
Connecticut policy often forces officers to arrest victims 
along with their abusers. The Hope Family Justice Cen-
ter, when it opens, will be a safe space in the heart of the 
city. The question is whether it will be enough.


**Title: At Home**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

 26
E
ven as violent crime rates in New Haven have 
plummeted during the tenures of Chief Dean 
Esserman and Chief Campbell, reports of domes-
tic violence are on the rise. New Haven police made 
943 arrests for domestic violence assaults in 2014, 1,432 
in 2015, and 1,576 last year. “New Haven has one of the 
highest, if not the highest, rates of people being killed 
or injured from domestic violence, from what we know 
in reporting,” said Esperina Stubblefield, Director of 
the Umbrella Center for Domestic Violence Services. 
Although efforts to combat street crime through com-
munity policing have worked, domestic violence—
which usually takes place in the hidden confines of the 
home—requires a different approach.
The New Haven Police Department gets more domes-
tic violence calls than any other kind of call. These situ-
ations are often volatile for officers. “Domestic violence 
is based on control,” said NHPD Detective Kristine 
Cuddy. “When an officer arrives on scene they’re tak-
ing that control.” It’s hard to predict how much danger a 
call will pose. On September 23, two New Haven officers 
were shot in the arm responding to a domestic violence 
dispute on Elm Street in the Dwight neighborhood.
If an officer is able to defuse the situation, the next 
goal is connecting the victim to help, a crucial step that 
changed dramatically five years ago. In the past, there 
was little coordination between cops and support pro-
viders in Connecticut. Police officers who responded 
to a domestic violence incident would simply hand the 
victim a sheet with an agency’s phone number. Nation-
wide, under this system, only about 4 percent of victims 
receive help or counseling.
In 2012, the NHPD distributed a placard with a series 
of eleven questions to every officer. “Has he/she threat-
ened to kill you or your children?” “Does he/she have 
a gun or can he/she get one easily?” These questions 
comprise the Lethality Assessment Program (LAP), a 
protocol used to assess the degree of risk a victim faces. 
The questionnaire includes one demographic question: 
whether the victim’s abuser is employed. “When an 
abusive man is unemployed, there’s both the financial 
strains of unemployment and the notion that unemploy-
ment takes away from traditional masculinities,” Chief 
Campbell said. In New Haven, domestic violence calls 
may be more frequent in low-income neighborhoods 
with higher unemployment rates like Fair Haven and 
the Hill, Campbell added—especially in summertime, 
when temperatures and tempers rise.
In every domestic violence call, the responding offi-
cer must ask all eleven questions. If, based on the vic-
tim’s responses, she is classified as “high-risk,” the officer 


VICTIMS MUST SET UP 
APPOINTMENT AFTER 
APPOINTMENT WITH LAW 
ENFORCEMENT, LAWYERS, AND 
COUNSELORS, OFTEN TRAVELING 
TO EACH ONE ON SLOW BUS LINES 
OVER THE COURSE OF FOUR OR FIVE 
DAYS





**LAP Protocol in Connecticut**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 28**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The Umbrella Center anticipates between fifteen and twenty LAP calls on a typical weekend. By this fall, all of Connecticut’s local jurisdictions had implemented the protocol; Connecticut is the first such state. Across the country, in districts that have implemented LAP, the rate of victims receiving further help or counseling from support providers has soared from 4 to 70 percent.


**BHCare Offices**

BHCare, the local healthcare provider operating the Umbrella Center for Domestic Violence Services, occupies an office along East Haven’s main commercial strip. It’s a ten minute drive from downtown; the bus ride takes almost an hour. The center provides counseling, legal advocacy, law enforcement-based assistance, safety planning, confidential safe houses, and other services for victims in nineteen cities and towns, including New Haven. It’s the product of a support network that has taken forty-four years to develop. In 1973, Yale Medical School student Anne Flitcraft and her husband Evan Stark started New Haven’s first domestic violence safe house, taking women and children on the run into their home in West Rock. Over the next four decades, community activists founded a shelter near the Yale hockey rink for twenty-five women and children, convened support groups, and staffed a hotline. In 1986, the New Haven Domestic Violence Task Force formed, and nonprofit support agencies were folded into the Umbrella Center. Now, resources that used to be uncoordinated or nonexistent are run by a single organization.
But support services remain scattered throughout the region, and some agencies are struggling to meet victims’ needs. Demand for beds at domestic violence shelters has more than doubled in the last eight years. In 2016, the state’s shelters operated at 125 percent capacity. “Victims are presenting with more acute, complex needs,” likely as a result of cuts to other service organizations, said Liza Andrews, Director of Public Policy and Communications at the Connecticut Coalition Against Domestic Violence (CCADV). “We’re seeing more victims with specific behavioral health problems, addiction problems, and serious medical issues.” These needs, Andrews said, have meant that more victims are living at shelters for months on end.
CCADV, which coordinates funding for eighteen partner organizations including the Umbrella Center, served almost forty thousand clients in 2016, but housed only one thousand clients (and twelve hundred children) in shelters. Yet shelter services make up the biggest chunk of the Coalition’s funding. Given the cost, some support agencies in Connecticut are no longer providing beds for victims, according to Karen Jarmoc, President and CEO of CCADV. Instead, they’re using the money to pay for victims’ first month of rent or transport them to a safer home.
With services spread thin, it can be hard to find help in Greater New Haven. Even if help is available, the time it takes to commute between agencies and wait for appointments, often with children in tow, creates a major burden for victims. But support providers believe a family justice center will solve that.
The concept of a family justice center originated in 1987, when Casey Gwinn, a prosecutor in the San Diego City Attorney’s office, was arguing hundreds of cases pertaining to child abuse stemming from domestic violence every month. Gwinn felt that legal action alone did not ensure victims’ well-being. Along with Ashley Walker, a survivor of sexual assault who was running the San Diego YWCA’s Services for Battered Women, and Gael Strack, a fellow prosecutor, he developed the idea for Julie Johnson, the head of New Haven’s family justice center planning committee, at BHCare in East Haven.


**Family Justice Centers**
**Page number(s): 29**

a single facility that would provide all of the services victims need. By 2002, San Diego had opened the nation’s first family justice center, housing 120 employees and volunteers, with overwhelmingly positive results. “We had about a 90 percent drop in domestic violence-related homicides between 1985 and 2008,” Gwinn said. “It’s hard to explain that around anything but the collaborative work we’re doing.”
In October 2003, President George W. Bush unveiled a national “President’s Family Justice Center Initiative,” to be helmed by Gwinn. The program allocated $20 million to develop fifteen centers across the country. The family justice center model has since spread worldwide to a hundred thirty-seven communities in twenty countries. According to a 2013 CNN report, a victim will attempt to leave an abusive relationship seven times, on average, before she leaves for good. In communities with family justice centers, that number has shrunk to one or two.
New Haven’s committee plans to build an entirely new facility large enough to accommodate at least half a dozen services. Stubblefield hopes to see the center running in twelve to eighteen months, while Gwinn predicted the center could be up and running in two to five years. With Yale only blocks away from the ideal site, there’s money to be mobilized, but fundraising has not yet begun.
Given the tightening state and federal budgets of the Trump Era—the President proposed in his latest budget a $2 million cut to the federal Office of Violence Against Women—Jarmoc, the CCADV President, believes fundraising may prove challenging. “This is a time of uncertain resources,” she said. “A family justice center is a very extensive project. The question is how are you going to create it financially, and how are you going to sustain it.”


**New Haven Police Headquarters**

“You might think it’s warm in here,” Anthony Campbell said to the crowd, beaming, “but that’s the Holy Spirit you’re feeling.”
The humidity of the warm June day had seeped into City Hall, and three hundred assembled New Haveners sweated in their dresses and suits. Even in the oppressive heat, Campbell was in high spirits: it was his eighteenth


**Title: New Haven's Fight Against Domestic Violence: A City's Struggle for Change**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 31
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
wedding anniversary, and he was being sworn in as the 
New Haven Chief of Police.
A 44-year-old from Harlem, Campbell attended Yale 
Divinity School and planned to become a Jesuit priest. 
But in 1998, he entered the New Haven Police Depart-
ment, drawn to its policy of community policing, in 
which officers build ties with community members. By 
2016, Campbell had risen to the rank of Assistant Chief. 
After the departure of embattled former Chief Dean 
Esserman, Campbell was a clear replacement. Mayor 
Harp, who regularly worked with domestic violence 
victims in her twenty-seven years as a homeless services 
outreach advocate at Cornell Scott-Hill Health Center, 
wanted to make the family justice center a focus of her 
reelection campaign. In promoting Campbell, she ele-
vated an officer who shares her priorities.
At the ceremony, Campbell emphasized his support 
for the Mayor’s mission to combat domestic violence. 
“Her commitment is unparalleled,” Campbell said of 
Harp, his voice soft and reedy. “She realizes we must 
bring domestic violence and intimate partner violence 
to a halt. She wants to bring a family justice center to 
New Haven.”
Since LAP was implemented in 2012, New Haven 
Police have been able to connect more victims to sup-
port providers, but that hasn’t addressed the true prob-
lem: domestic violence itself. Campbell sees community 
policing as crucial to keeping abuse at bay. “A big part of 
the pattern of domestic violence is isolation, whether it’s 
self-isolation or a control mechanism of the offender,” 
Campbell said. “Community policing is in direct con-
trast to isolation.” This fall, Chief Campbell is working 
with the police union to distribute department-issued 
phones to officers so that they can give their numbers 
out to residents on their beat.
Once the Hope Family Justice Center opens its doors, 
New Haven police will have an opportunity to build fur-
ther trust. Former NHPD police captain Julie Johnson, 
leader of New Haven’s planning committee, said that in 
cities like Milwaukee, centers have become community 
institutions. “With a family justice center, you want your 
community to know it’s there,” Johnson said. “You want 
people to walk in off the street who wouldn’t call the 
police. It’s public knowledge.” The LAP and the family 
justice center model could work in tandem to connect 
victims to services more fluidly and provide communi-ty-based support.
But without changes in the law, all New Haven com-
munity policing initiatives may be for naught. In 1984, 
after the husband of a woman named Tracey Thurman 
attacked and stabbed her, Thurman sued the Torrington 
Police Department in Connecticut, claiming the police 
had disregarded the danger she faced in past calls to her 
home. The case precipitated sweeping changes to Con-
necticut’s domestic violence legislation, most notably 
through the Family Violence Prevention and Response 
Act, enacted in 1986. The act included a “mandatory 
arrest” provision for officers, requiring the arrest of 
alleged perpetrators “if there is probable cause to believe 
that person committed a family violence crime.” In cases 


IN 85 PERCENT 
OF FAMILY-
RELATED CASES IN 
CONNECTICUT, AT 
LEAST ONE PARTY IS 
SELF-REPRESENTED, 
MEANING LOW-
INCOME VICTIMS OF 
ABUSE OFTEN HAVE 
TO FIGHT FOR THEIR 
SAFETY WITHOUT 
THE HELP OF AN 
ATTORNEY.


where a victim uses physical force in self-defense, the 
officer, seeing signs that the abuser and the victim hurt 
each other, often has to arrest both. This practice, known 
as a “dual arrest,” can embroil victims in lengthy legal 
struggles.
All other states with mandatory arrest clauses, includ-
ing New Jersey, New York, and Rhode Island, have passed 
“primary aggressor” legislation requiring officers to 
attempt to identify which partner instigated the violence 
and avoid arresting the other party. But in Connecticut, 
a 2004 General Assembly bill to implement a similar 
protocol was stripped of most of its provisions. The state 
legislature has acted aggressively in recent years to pro-
tect victims of domestic violence, passing laws requiring 
the subjects of temporary restraining orders to give up 
firearms and criminalizing nonviolent stalking behavior 
that causes severe emotional distress. But the Thurman 
Law, thirty-one years later, remains largely unchanged.
Today, Connecticut is the only state where victims 
are arrested on a regular basis. According to a Febru-
ary ProPublica report, the national dual arrest rate in 
domestic violence incidents is around 2 percent. Even 
though NHPD officer training emphasizes avoiding dual 
arrests, New Haven’s rate last year was almost 19 percent. 
Gwinn, the founder of the family justice center model, 
said he hopes the New Haven center will be the impe-
tus for change in legislation and practice. Even in the 
absence of new state laws, the New Haven Police Depart-
ment could enact a primary aggressor policy at the local 


ELIZABETH HADN’T FELT THIS 
TREATMENT QUALIFIED AS 
ABUSE, BUT THE SUPPORT GROUP 
CHANGED EVERYTHING. “I 
OPENED MY EYES UP,” SHE SAID. 
“IT WAS A HUGE TURNING POINT 
FOR ME.”

level, he suggested. Unless this change is made, victims 
of abuse may hesitate to call for help at all.


**Title: New Haven Superior Court**
**Page number(s): 32**

New Haven Superior Court
121 Elm Street
T
he New Haven Superior Court, where hearings 
of domestic violence criminal cases take place, 
is an imposing building. Six Ionic columns stand 
imperiously out front, and visitors are greeted with a 
metal detector when they walk inside. The sounds of 
murmured conversation and brisk footsteps echo coldly 
back and forth in the atrium.
At one domestic violence court session this Septem-
ber, a woman sat with two young girls, their hair in 
beaded braids, on either side of her. They leaned on 
each of her shoulders, waiting for the hearings to start. 
The session opened at 10:30 a.m. In the thirty-eight min-
utes before the judge took the bench, a man sitting in 
the audience behind them grew impatient. “I lost like 
thirty hours of work already,” he said to the room. “I’m 
about to turn into the judge. Judge Harris says everybody 
get the fuck out of here. I don’t even want to go to work. 
I just want to go home and go to bed now.” As the wait 
continued, a woman walked into the courtroom and sat 
in the front row. “Damn,” he laughed, loud enough for 
everyone else to hear. “Look at that bitch.” The woman 
and girls sat quietly.
Legal aid is a crucial part of recovery, in both short-
term survival and long-term safety, but it’s a complex 
process that can expose victims to traumatic environ-
ments like this. Victims often have to meet with victim


New Haven Mayor Toni Harp.


**Title: The System's Shortcomings**
**Page number(s): 33**

advocates at the Superior Court to prepare for crimi-
nal trials, file for restraining orders at the civil court on 
Church Street, and seek help with divorce proceedings 
and financial assistance at the offices of New Haven 
Legal Assistance on State Street.
Legal advocates hope to locate New Haven’s family 
justice center as close to the downtown courthouses as 
possible. But Barbara Bellucci, the Umbrella Center’s 
Family Violence Victim Advocate Supervisor, wants 
to go a step further. “Victims often want to meet with 
attorneys personally. This often takes place at the [Supe-
rior Court], which is not a space that’s particularly trau-
ma-sensitive,” she said. “I hope there will be space for 
advocates to meet at the family justice center, and a 
place for kids to play and be engaged while Mom talks 
to the prosecutor.”
Given the prevalence of domestic violence, New 
Haven’s legal advocates are perpetually inundated with 
cases. At the Superior Court, the Umbrella Center’s six 
Family Violence Victim Advocates received twenty-four 
hundred new cases in the last fiscal year. Around five 
years ago, funding cuts eliminated the two attorneys in 
the Connecticut Attorney’s Office strictly dedicated to 
domestic violence cases, placing even more strain on 
the system. Now, prosecutors and victim advocates hold 
quarterly roundtable meetings, and each Judicial Dis-
trict has a designated liaison prosecutor who receives 
additional training for domestic violence cases. But in 85 
percent of family-related cases in Connecticut, at least 
one party is self-represented, meaning low-income vic-
tims of abuse often have to fight for their safety without 
the help of an attorney.
In recent years, support agencies have begun serving 
more undocumented immigrants, who often hesitate to 
reach out for help, fearing deportation. The Battered 
Immigrant Women Protection Act of 2000 established 
the U-Visa, which grants temporary legal status, with a 
pathway to citizenship, to immigrants who are victims 
of crimes. In situations where deportation is imminent, 
legal advocates can prioritize their visa applications. 
But not every undocumented victim knows about the 
U-Visa, or feels she can safely apply for it. “We want to 
get the word out that whether a victim is undocumented 
or not, we will provide service,” Bellucci said. “We don’t 
want anyone to be isolated.”
Facing similar challenges, the Bridgeport Center for 
Family Justice started a legal incubator program this 
February, working with the Greater Bridgeport Bar Asso-
ciation to bring in low bono and pro bono legal services 
and providing office space for five attorneys to start pri-
vate practices. “Attorneys come from everywhere,” said 
Debra Greenwood, Executive Director of Bridgeport’s 
center. “If we had the space we could have brought in 
ten.” Through a similar program, New Haven’s center 
could ease the burden placed on the Superior Court’s 
advocates. “We already have a relationship with legal 
aid, but if we get a center, we would try to increase that 
access, hopefully utilizing the many colleges and law 
schools in the area,” Johnson said. “There are just not 
enough free legal services.”


**Title: The Bridgeport Center for Family Justice**

The Center for Family Justice
753 Fairfield Avenue, Bridgeport
J
ohnson, Stubblefield, and other planning commit-
tee members for the Hope Family Justice Center of 
Greater New Haven have toured centers in San Diego, 
Milwaukee, Brooklyn, Manhattan, and Bridgeport to 
piece together a plan for New Haven’s center. Accord-
ing to Johnson, the Bridgeport Center for Family Justice 
could serve as a model for the planning committee.
The lobby of the Bridgeport center is adorned with a 
brightly colored mural, the rainbow silhouettes of hands 
extending from the borders to the center. “Hands are not 
for hitting,” it reads. The first floor has a waiting room 
with a fishtank in the corner, a room for intake meetings 
with a box of tissues at the ready, and a forensic interview 
room for victims of child abuse. Downstairs are offices 
for attorneys, prosecutors, and law enforcement, along 
Elm Street Superior Court in New Haven.



**Finding love at Yale**
**Author: Jacob Sweet**
**Page number(s): 35**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Finding love at Yale is hard. Just ask my mom, who has had this explained to her at least twice a month for the past three years. How do you meet someone when everyone seems too busy, too hot, or too consumed with cultivating a hip but low-key Facebook persona to give you a chance? Don’t worry! I’m here to help. Below are some of the best places to find love at Yale! 

1. A Dining Hall
See a cute guy eating dinner alone? Ask if you can join him! Who knows? Maybe he’ll want you as dessert! Ha ha!

2. Bass Café
That girl might seem busy, but everyone can use a break! Strike up a sweet and spicy conversation about Bass Café’s Sweet and Spicy Chicken Sandwich with Harissa and Red Pepper Aioli. She will definitely send you a GCal invite for Friday evening! ;)

3. Yale Symphony Orchestra rehearsals between 4:00 and 6:30 on Mondays and Wednesdays in the Adams Center
The Yale Symphony Orchestra—one of the finest undergraduate orchestras in the country—has plenty of talented and motivated bachelors with compassionate mothers who just want what’s best for them. The clarinet section, in particular, has three notable single men, one of whom is not necessarily opposed to having a girlfriend at the moment, but isn’t going to force it just to please his mother if it’s not in the cards.

4. Old Campus
If you’re a first-year, there’s no better place to find a date than on Old Campus! Wait until it’s dark, put on all black, lay face down in the dirt, and wait for someone cute to step on you! When they realize what they’ve done and apologize, threaten to sue them! Do not back down until they agree to come with you to Vivi Bubble Tea. Chewy!


5. Lecture for Selfhood, Race, Class, and Gender in GR109 in Rosenfeld Hall MW 11:35-12:50 
Looking for a woke lover who can describe each wave of feminism in comprehensive, intersectional detail? Or just a white dude who is trying his best? One noteworthy scholar, whose mother is just a little worried he is missing out on a really excellent time to meet a long-term partner, sits toward the back left of the room (closest to the Temple Street entrance). He is, again, not really going out of his way to find a girlfriend but wouldn’t really mind making the commitment for someone pretty who thinks Kanye West’s 808s & Heartbreak deserves more respect in the hip-hop community. 

6. The gym
The specific gym doesn’t matter. All that matters is you’ll find hard-working people who value their health! What could be better? Get on a treadmill next to a cute guy and run until muscle cramps seize your legs and send you flying off the machine. If he’s a keeper, he will fireman-carry you to Yale Health. It will be a great story to tell your children.  

7. Grace Hopper College I21
Looking for a fun place to meet guys? How about a suite with five dudes and only one couch? Of the five, two are gay, one has a girlfriend, and one sleeps upside-down in his closet like a bat. The remaining suitemate—whose mother expressed only mild disappointment when she found out he was practicing clarinet on a Friday night instead of going on a date with any of a seemingly endless pool of smart, sophisticated women—is pretty busy, but can probably make room in his life for someone who still appreciates the novelty of Dippin’ Dots flash-frozen ice cream. 

8. Blue State Coffee 
That cute guy across the room might have a latte on his mind, but did he just wink at you? Maybe you should give it a shot! Chai tea? More like Chai he better know what’s best for him and offer you a place to stay over October break! Ha ha! Success! Have fun meeting his parents!


– Jacob Sweet is a senior in Grace Hopper College.
illustration julia hedges
This one’s for you, Mom


**American Jewish men and the anxieties of breadwinning**
**Author: Beth S. Wenger**
**Page number(s): 36**

this lecture was made possible by  
the paula hyman memorial lecture fund
sponsored by the judaic studies program 
at yale university

October 26  •  4:00 pm
Joseph Slifka Center for 
Jewish Life at Yale
2nd Floor Chapel
80 Wall Street  •  New Haven, CT
image source: New York City (detail), 1936, Russel Lee (Library of Congress Prints and Photographs Divisions, Washington DC)

beth s. wenger is Moritz and Josephine Berg Profes-
sor of History and Chair of the History Department at the 
University of Pennsylvania. Her most recent book is History 
Lessons: The Creation of American Jewish Heritage (Princeton 
University Press, 2010). Wenger’s other works include The 
Jewish Americans: Three Centuries of Jewish Voices in America 
(Doubleday, 2007), companion volume to the 2008 PBS series 
The Jewish Americans, which was named a National Jewish 
Book Award finalist. She is also the author of New York Jews 
and the Great Depression: Uncertain Promise, (Yale University Press, 1996), which 
was awarded the Salo Baron Prize in Jewish History from the American Academy 
of Jewish Research. 

Wenger is co-editor of several anthologies and collections, including Encounters 
With the “Holy Land”: Place, Past and Future in American Jewish Culture (with Jeffrey 
Shandler) and Remembering the Lower East Side: American Jewish Reflections (with 
Hasia Diner and Jeffrey Shandler). Her most recent anthology Gender in Judaism 
and Islam: Common Lives, Uncommon Heritage (coedited with Firoozeh Kashani- 
Sabet), was published in 2014 by New York University Press. 

Wenger is a Fellow of the American Academy of Jewish Research and Chair of the 
Academic Advisory Council of the Center for Jewish History in New York. She 
has served as a Distinguished Lecturer of the Organization of American Historians 
and the Association for Jewish Studies. She is also a founding historian of Phila-
delphia’s National Museum of American Jewish History.

For information, please contact Renee Reed at  
(203) 432-0843 or renee.reed@yale.edu




beth s. wenger 
Moritz and Josephine Berg Professor of History and Chair of the History Department
University of Pennsylvania




**The Center for Family Justice**
**Author: Mark Rosenberg**
**Page number(s): 34**

– Mark Rosenberg is a sophomore in Pierson College.
with a wellness room where clients take yoga classes. 
Upstairs are rooms for support advocates to meet with 
clients, many of whom are referred by the center’s twenty-four-hour hotline or just walk in; a conference room 
that hosts self-sufficiency classes; and a children’s room 
with jungle murals painted on the walls, Halloween cos-
tumes lining two folding tables in the middle. Children 
of the fifteen clients living in Kathie’s Place, the center’s 
confidential safe house, often can’t go trick-or-treating 
elsewhere, so the center’s employees hold their own Hal-
loween for the kids every fall.

Elizabeth, a victim who sought help at the facility 
while it was still the Center for Women and Children, 
said the support groups she attended there helped her 
recognize and recover from twenty years of abuse. For 
years, her ex-husband manipulated her psychologically, 
becoming furious when she served him the wrong dish 
for dinner or threw out leftover food, and forbidding her 
from leaving the house on weekends. Elizabeth hadn’t 
felt this treatment qualified as abuse, but the support 
group changed everything. “It opened my eyes up,” she 
said. “It was a huge turning point for me. I realized what 
I was going through.” Elizabeth is safe now. Last year, 
she got her Masters in social work, and she has begun 
working for a support agency, helping other survivors 
like her.

The Center for Family Justice is a beautiful facility, 
and above all, it’s efficient. For the typical first-time cli-
ent, the intake process is just an hour long, enough time 
to choose the services she wants, fill out paperwork, and 
get immediate help if her needs are pressing. And every 
victim is guided through the center with an advocate 
at her side, making potentially challenging parts of the 
process, like meeting with law enforcement, easier to 
handle.

In New Haven, a key consideration for Johnson and 
the planning committee is how best to incorporate 
police into the center. “Let’s say the victim comes off 
of the street or calls and comes by and says, ‘I need ser-
vices,’ Johnson said. “One of the first things they’re going 
to be asked is whether they want to speak to law enforce-
ment. If they say no, they’re not going to have any inter-
action with law enforcement.” Chief Campbell echoed 
Johnson’s pledge. “A Family Justice Center should not 
be something that when you say it, the first thing you 
think of is law enforcement,” he said. “The first thing 
people should think about is somewhere they can go to 
obtain resources that will give them a sense of stability 
and hope.”

Given the time and effort it took her to find that same 
sense of stability, Valerie is optimistic about the pros-
pect of a family justice center in New Haven. “It’s just 
a lot of work to get support,” she said. “I’m hoping [this 
will make it] a simplified effort.” The planning commit-
tee has held focus groups with victims to come up with 
ideas for the center, which she views as a promising start. 
“Talking about this is definitely helpful,” Valerie said. 
“As long as you’re talking to the right people about this, 
this support will help people restart their lives.”

If it takes after Bridgeport’s center, the Hope Family 
Justice Center of Greater New Haven will be an island 
of calm, a place where victims have agency, even a pillar 
of the community. For victims, care will be readily avail-
able and accommodating of their needs. It will be some 
time before the center opens, and it may not solve all of 
the system’s many problems. But in a city where agen-
cies are hard to reach, where shelters have no free beds, 
where legal aid is limited, and where victims are arrested 
along with their abusers a fifth of the time, it’s a start.

The Center for Family Justice in Bridgeport.

