Publication date: December 6, 1985
Volume: 19
Issue number: 3

**MASTHEAD:**
- Publisher: Margarita Smith
- Editor-in-Chief: Melissa Turner
- Business Manager: Barrie Seidenberg
- Managing Editors: Jay Carney, Tamar Lehrich
- Designer: Beth Callaghan
- Production Manager: Stu Weinzimer
- Photography Editor: Carter Brooks
- Associate Business Manager: Beth Cohen
- National Sales Manager: Peter Lefkowitz
- Associate Editors: Daniel Waterman
- Circulation Manager: Debbie Rosier
- Staff: Tom Augst, Bronwyn Barkan, Margaret Bauer, James Bennet, Martha Brant, Dave Brendel, Jen Fleissner, Alison Gardy, Peter Zusi, Pearl Hu, Susan Orenstein, Jen Sachs, Karen Shen, Lori Sherman, Mike Sonnenblick, Grace White, Yin Wong
- Members and Directors: Edward B. Bennett III, Henry Chauncey, Jr., Peter B. Cooper, Andy Court, Brooks Kelley, Michelle Press, Fred Strebeigh, Thomas Strong
- Friends: Anson M. Beard, Jr., Edward B. Bennett, Jr., Edward B. Bennett III, Blaire Bennett, Gerald Bruck, Jonathan M. Clark, Louise F. Cooper, Jerry and Rae Court, David Freeman, Geoffry Fried, Sherwin Goldman, John Hersey, Brooks Kelley, Roger Kirwood, Andrew J. Kuzneski, Jr., Lewis E. Lehrman, E. Nobles Lowe, Peter Neill, Julie Peters, Fairfax C. Randall, Nicholas X. Rizopoulos, Arleen and Arthur Sager, Dick and Debbie Sears, Richard Shields, Thomas Strong, Elizabeth Tate, Alex and Betsy Torello, Allen and Sarah Wardwell, Peter Yeager, Daniel Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**

Primed for a Trade - James Bennet
Celebrating a Great Unknown - Peter Zusi
For Country and For Yale - Daniel Waterman
On the Edge - Andy Cowan
Faces from the Crowd - Susan Orenstein
Unconventional Education - Alison Gardy
Literature After "X" - Michael Holquist


**Title: Primed for a Trade**
**Author: James Bennet**
**Page number(s): 6**

Created and run by two Yale graduates, TRADES, Inc.- Teen Rehabilitation and Development: an Experimental School- has for two years trained New Haven high school dropouts to paint houses. Backing their idealism with hard work, TRADES' directors have turned an 88,000 Dwight Hall summer program into a model job-training organization with a quarter-million dollar budget.


**Title: Celebrating a Great Unknown**
**Author: Peter Zusi**
**Page number(s): 10**

Hermann Broch came to Yale in 1949 without any of the ceremony usually accorded to literary masters. His death two years later went unnoticed by almost all except his close friends and a small circle of admirers. Now, as Yale celebrates his one hundredth birthday, Broch is getting the recognition he deserves.


**Title: For Country and For Yale**
**Author: Daniel Waterman**
**Page number(s): 24**

With the popularity and appeal of the armed forces increasing on a national level, only 18 Yale undergraduates are enrolled in the ROTC and other officer training programs. Not a visible presence on campus, these students pursue military training for a variety of reasons at a university where the status of such programs is in transition.


**Title: On the Edge**
**Author: Andy Cowan**
**Page number(s): 32**

Living off campus, students have become increasingly concerned about crime- and fear that Yale and New Haven have left them on their own.


**Title: Faces from the Crowd**
**Author: Susan Orenstein**
**Page number(s): 38**

Four students speak openly about issues facing them as activists in the Coalition Against Apartheid. Providing different viewpoints, they discuss what motivates them but also what alienates them- both from the movement and from Yale.


**Title: Unconventional Education**
**Author: Alison Gardy**
**Page number(s):  (Page number not specified in provided text)**

After leaving her country under pressure from a military dictatorship, Emilia Viotti da Costa came to the United States. At Yale, she is one of only two women tenured history professors. A native Brazilian, she hopes to dispel conventional myths about radicalism in Latin America. With Alison Gardy, she traces some of the events that have shaped her own intellectual history.


**Title: Literature After "X"**
**Author: Michael Holquist**
**Page number(s): 44**

Returning to the department he helped create, Professor Michael Holquist remembers Yale and the crisis that led to the creation of the Literature Major.


**Letters To the Editor:**
**Author: Rollin Riggs, '82**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Letters 
To the Editor: 
Alison Cardy's review of Essays That 
Worked (TN], Octo~er 1 7, 1986) was 
so ill-informed and idiotic that it would 
be a waste of time to refute all of it. 
However, there are a few points that 
need correction. 

Miss Cardy begins by criticizing the 
book because it "finally how-to-izes" 
the college application essay, and she 
leads the reader to believe she is an 
authority on the publishing industry. 
In fact, if she had bothered to check, 
Miss Cardy would have found that a 
number of "how-to" books on college 
essays have been published in the last 
few years, in workbook style and with 
such sneaky titles as College Application 
Essays (Arco, 1984) and Writing Your 
College Application Essay (The College 
Board, 1986). Essays That Worked, 
however, takes the completely opposite 
tack of a how-to book -
a fact that is 
obvious to anyone with any knowledge 
of the subject. 

Miss Cardy also criticizes the book's 
bold cover and "crisply professional 
image." Sorry, but bookstores are 
reluctant to sell books that have a "dull 
amateurish image." Would she prefer 
the book to be xeroxed and stapled? 

Basically, Miss Cardy failed to 
realize that Essays That Worked was not 
published for literature seminars at 
Yale. It's meant to assist students 
applying to college. Period. Luckily, 
most high school seniors are brighter 
than she; they know exactly what 
they're buying, and Essays That Worked 
is selling very well (it's #3 on Double-
day's bestseller list) and is getting ex-
cellent write-ups in such media as the 
New York Times, Glamour, and The 
Chronicle of Higher Education." 

Finally, if Miss Cardy had bothered 
to check, she would have learned that I 
am a member of the Class of 1982, not 
1979. 
Sincerely, 
Rollin Riggs, '82 
President, Mustang Publishing


The New journal encourages letters to the editor 
and comment on Yale and New Haven issues. 
Write to Melissa Turner, Editorials. 3432 Yale 
Station, New Haven. CT 06520. All letters for 
publication must include address and signature. 
The New j ournal reserves the right to edit all 
letters for publication. 


Editors' response: Mr. Riggs seems to have 
misinterpreted the message behind Ms. 
Cardy's review. Nowhere does she suggest 
that she's an "authority on the publishing 
industry, "for obviously, she is only one voice 
presenting one view on Essays That 
Worked. More importantly, however, one 
must recognize Ms. Cardy's salient point: the 
college essay, the one aspect of the application 
process which should allow students to shine 
as individuals- not merely as a compilation 
of test scores and grades- has been reduced to 
yet another part of the "how to apply to 
college" game. 

Finally, 
in calling Ms. 
Cardy's review "ill-informed and idiotic, " 
Mr. Riggs undermines his own credibility. 



**NewsJournal**
**Author: Skye Wilson**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

New Focus on Women 
Dinner conversations at Yale often 
serve as a forum for debate; less 
frequently, this debate translates into 
action. For Rachel Dretzin (BK,'87) 
and Sharon Portnoy (SY,'87), a dinner 
discussion over issues of feminism for 
college-age women launched a film 
project currently underway, one which 
they hope will create an unprecedented 
public voice for their generation of 
women. 

Portnoy, an English major who 
hopes to be a writer, conceived of the 
project. 
Realizing that college-age 
women face different problems today 
than they did in the 1960s, Portnoy 
decided to produce a film that would 
articulate these new concerns. She 
approached 
Dretzin, 
now in an 
advanced film workshop, with the idea 
of interviewing women from similar 
educational backgrounds to see what 
common trends of thought emerged. "I 
was electrified by the thought," Dretzin 
said. 

Dretzin and Portnoy have already 
videotaped interviews with eight to 
nine women at this point and hope to 
accumulate up to 30 or more before 
they begin filming next summer. They 
will use these interviews as raw 
research from which they may create 
fictionalized composites or retain the 
original portraits in a montage. The 
filmmakers are appealing to women's 
organizations for contributions, and 
applying for Yale-sponsored and 
public grants, in order to raise the 
thousands of dollars needed to fund 
their project. 

According to Dretzin, the women 
they have videotaped represent an 
even mix of those who consider 
themselves feminists and those who do 
not. The questions are not phrased to 
deal with feminism directly, but rather 
to explore personal anecdotes. "We're 
having people tell stories themselves, 
talk about relationships and 
friendships, and, out of that come the 
issues," Dretzin said. Strikingly, she 
and Portnoy have d iscovered that 
whether or not the inteJ;Viewed women 
view themselves as feminists, they 
bring up the same conflicts. 

Portnoy has found that most of these 
women are trying to establish full 
gender equality while still maintaining 
their female identities. This conflict 
results in academic hesitancy, 
perceived compromises in personal 
relationships, discrepencies between 
their mothers' achievements and their 
own goals, and preoccupations with 
food. Consistently, the women grapple 
in their interviews with what Dretzin 
describes as a confusion between their 
formal 
thoughts and their actual 
reactions. 

She often senses an inconsistency 
when the women talk about their 
academics. "At Yale there is this 
general assumption that women are as 
smart as men. But the amount of self-
censorship and self-negation that goes 
on before the woman's hand goes up or 
the paper is handed in is amazing," she 
said. "That is one thing that has come 
out of the interviews." 

Dretzin and Portnoy have dis-
covered that relationships present an 
arena for constant expressions of self-


--- Page 5 ---

doubt. 
Many of the 
interviewed 
women say that their reactions to men 
follow an almost involuntary pattern: a 
softening of the voice, and a less 
"aggressive" manner out of a fear that 
they will seem less attractive if they 
behave otherwise. They perform in a 
way that defies what they define as 
feminist. Those interviewed reveal a 
tremendous amount of confusion as to 
whether their own behavior is appro-
priate or self-betraying. 

Both Portnoy and Dretzin em-
phasize that the confusion which 
spawned these new issues existed 
20 or 30 years ago when the mod-
ern 
women's 
movement began. 
"In some sense we need to repoliticize 
the cause," Portnoy said. "We are 
reasserting that there is still a struggle." 
She has spoken to 40 and 50-year-old 
women who are surprised to find there 
are college-age feminists because few 
young women have made themselves 
heard. Portnoy sees the film as a 
"further step to freeing that lack of 
expression." 

Helen Cutting Whitney, a film-
maker who has produced numerous 
documentaries, has agreed to advise 
Dretzin and Portnoy's project and to 
aid in their grant-search process. The 
two women hope to sell their ~om­
pleted film to a cable or syndicated 
television station and to show it at 
colleges. With its release, this film may 
well promp debate and soul searching 
similar to that which spawned it; that, 
Portnoy and Dretzin feel, would be a 
welcome change. 
-Skye Wilson 


**An Arts Haven**
**Author: Warren Kampf**
**Page number(s): 5**

Envision a small community of artists 
and art lovers, complete with low 
budget 
housing, 
theaters, 
free-
admission galleries, summer concerts, 
quiet courtyards, retail shops, schools 
for the performance arts, and movie 
houses. For the last twenty years, this 
artistic utopia has been the evolving 
dream of the Arts Council of Greater 
New Haven. Having survived the 
early formative years and a progress-
halting 1970s Pc:onomic recession, the 
Council hopes today to find a prom-
ising home on and around Audubon 
Street. 

The Arts Council, founded in 1968 
by a group of New Haven citizens, 
provides scheduling, publicity, 
funding, and space for its member 
organizations and artists. The council's 
latest victory comes in acquiring the 
old Winery building on Whitney 
Avenue, across from the Foundry and 
the Munson Gallery. The Whitney 
Winery, formerly a popular restaurant 
and bar, now serves as temporary 
headquarters for the newest member 
organization of the Council, a pro-
motion agency called Artspace, Inc. 
"Potentially," says Frances Clark, 
executive director of the Council, 
"Arts pace and the Winery building will 
become an incubator for the Arts." The 
company has as yet only a tentative 
focus, and will not create an agenda 
until its Board of Directors, consisting 
of artists, businessmen, and public 
servants, selects an executive officer in 
late November. Clark adds, "The 
Winery might become a place for local 
artists to experiment in performance, it 
might become a 
small drama 
workshop, it might remain an art 
gallery for local and visiting artists, or 
it might just become all of the above." 

Currently, a group called Artists 
Working in New Haven hosts an 
exhibition of its artwork in the Winery 
building. Artspace allows the group to 
exhibit rent free in exchange for minor 
renovation services. An upcoming 
exhibition, titled "Under $100," will 
sponsor local or visiting visual artists to 
show work, priced at less than $100, 
for only a $5 hanging fee per piece. 

The transformation of the Winery 
building from restaurant to gallery 
marks the latest step towards realizing 
the Arts Council's original dream: an 
artistic invasion of the non-residential, 
Audubon Street district. Among its -
allies, 
the Council counts the 
Neighborhood Music School, 
the 
Educational Center for the Arts, the 
Creative Arts Workshop, and the 
Lincoln Theater building. All of these 
agencies are considered integral parts 
of the evolving plan. "We wanted a 
center which would be a public as well 
as a 
private place," said Charles 
Bower, one of the Council's founders, 
"a place where people could meet, live, 
shop, learn and work in the ambience 
of the Arts: where the presence of art 
as a part of society could be felt and 
enjoyed by the practitioner as well as 
the spectator." 

By the Spring of 1988, a $30 million 
development project cons1stmg of 
office space and residential units on 
Audubon Street 
is 
scheduled for 
completion. This project aims to create 
a supportive community for the local 
theaters, galleries and performance 
houses. With the realization of this 
development project, the Council will 
arrive at the end of a long, successful 
journey. It will have created a strong 
foundation for progressive and popular 
art in New Haven. The next few years 
will tell the beginning of another story: 
can the plan work? The proper 
groundwork now in place, the Council 
and its friends must turn their efforts to 
attracting both artists and art lovers to 
the community they are creating. 
-
Warren Kampf 


**Primed for a Trade**
**Author: James Bennet**
**Page number(s): 6**

On the way up: TRADES trainee Keith Wiley and coordinator Roggie Vasquez. 

When Roggie Vazquez and Willie 
Penn began painting for TRADES, 
Inc., everything did not go smoothly. 
"We did some things to people's yards 
that they don't know about," confided 
Vazquez. Penn grinned as he des-
cribed accidentally dumping a bucket 
of paint over a bush on one job. 

When the owner of the house came 
into the yard to pay them, the painters, 
having cleaned up as best they could, 
acted nonchalant. "We just looked 
around at each other saying, 'Boy, 
we're glad this lady's senile!'" Penn 
recalled, laughing. 

Now, as coordinators for TRADES 
-Teen 
Rehabilitation 
and 
Development: 
an 
Experimental 
School-Penn and Vazquez train new 
painters. Penn, 20, dropped out of Lee 
High School in the twelfth grade. 
While working at the YMCA, he 
heard about TRADES and applied. 
He began painting in the summer of 
1985 and now attends evening class at 
Hamden High School to earn his 
diploma. Vazquez, 19, has been with 
TRADES since its inception in 1984 as 
Dwight Hall Summer Painters, work-
ing part-time until graduating from 
Lee High School in 1985; since then, 
he has worked for the company full-
time. 

Despite their success at 
TRADES, both say that they still have 
much to learn. "Ain't nobody profes-
sional," Penn explained. "You've just 
gotta keep going, striving to be better 
than what you are." 

Under the direction of David Rich 
(BK, '84) and Stuart Dunbar (TC, 



**TRADES: A New Haven Success Story**
**Author: James Bennet**
**Page number(s): 7-9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
'85), TRADES has grown from a 
Dwight Hall summer jobs program 
with an $8000 budget into an 
independent, quarter-million dollar 
company that trains local high school 
dropouts to paint. It employs them 
year-round while providing some 
classroom education in the evenings. 
Rich sees New Haven as a city with 
both a great demand for painters and 
high unemployment. TRADES, he 
says, seeks to reduce that mismatch. 
Although TRADES has survived 
hand-to-mouth since its creation, . its 
prospects for the future look good. "It's 
still touch-and-go financially, but }Ve 
now have a solid community-based 
organization," Rich said. 


Though Rich and Dunbar derived 
their idea for TRADES from Dwight 
Hall Summer Painters, 
which 
employed five New Haven high school 
students to paint houses during the 
summer of 1984, they envisioned 
something larger. "I wanted to do 
something more grandiose than just 
going out and painting with kids," 
Rich said. He wanted TRADES to be 
what 
he calls a 
"public action" 
program. While public service organ-
Izations seek to advance individuals 
through scholarships and similar 
programs, TRADES, according to 
Rich, focuses on "helping people to in 
-turn help others in their own 
community." Toward this end, 
TRADES aims at providing market-
~ble skills, job experience and, most 
•mportant, the motivation and self-
discipline to work. Though Rich 
estimates that 50 percent of the 
trainees who have completed the 
program now work in the construction 
field, he says that TRADES does not 
emphasize job placement. To do so, he 
argues, would pressure the staff to 
screen out applicants who they felt 
might not succeed in the building 
trades. "All we look for is motivation," 
he said. Men and women without the 
ability to work for other painting or 
construction companies, l;le believes, 
can nevertheless benefit from their 
experience a·t TRADES. 


Their goals established, Rich and 
Dunbar began to 
seek financial 
support, for enthusiasm and good 
ideas, they realized, would not pay the 
bills. 


Because TRADES employs 
unskilled workers, it cannot support 
itself as a 
professional painting 
company does. It must rely on grants 
"Ain't nobody 
professional. You've 
just gotta keep going, 
striving to be better 
than what you are." 
from corporations and funding pro-
grams for 30 percent of its budget. 
Rich and Dunbar spent the spring of 
1985 trying to arrange funding for an 
organization whose structure they had 
not clearly defined. "We were just 
winging it," Rich confessed. They got 
the backing they needed, however, and 
by July TRADE~ was in business. 
Since then, 28 men and women have 
finished the TRADES training, and 
the company has completed about 60 
jobs, 
ranging from 
small 
indoor 
projects to a group of ten condo-
miniums. Their customers have been 
satisfied. For their restoration of a 
house in Fair Haven, TRADES won 
the Fair Haven Housepainting Prize 
and the Merit Award in 1985. 
TRADES 
e_mploys 
15 
trainees 
during the summer and ten during the


When Roggie Vazquez began painting for TRADES, he used to sh ow pictures of the 
houses he painted to friends. 
winter, when the demand for painters 
slackens. Most of the trainees never 
finished high school. The men are 
usually in their late teens and the 
women in 
their early twenties. 
Beginning at minimum wage, the 
painters work five days a week from 
eight in the morning until four in the 
afternoon. Trainees' wages grow to as 
much as six dollars an hour as their 
skills improve. There is no set training 
period; painters leave the program 
when they feel prepared to work for 
another painting company or to seek a 
job outside the trades. 


In theory, the program calls for 
three hours of classroom instruction a 
week for trainees without a diploma. 
Rich and Dunbar intended this aspect 
of the program less to prepare trainees 
to get their general education degree 
than to maintain their basic academic 
skills and their familiarity with a 
classroom situation. The TRADES 
staff and Yale 
tutors teach basic 
reading and math skills, but because 
classes come after a full day's work, 
trainees rarely appear more than once 
a week. According to Rich, TRADES 
will place more emphasis on classroom 
education in the future. The painters' 
union, 
he 
pointed out, 
requires 
members to have a 
high school 
diploma or its equivalent. 


TRADES has taken a toll on its 
creators. 
Rich and Dunbar, 
who 
designed the program intending to 
supervise their trainees on the job, 
instead found themselves putting in 60 
hours a week behind their desks. 
Dubar cited this as one reason for his 
leaving TRADES in November. Jim 
Signore!Ji (MC, '85), a coordinator for 
TRADES from the summer of 1985 
until this fall, says he left T RADES 
because he "burned out." TRADES, 
he said, 
ran 
his 
life. 
H owever, 
Signorelli refers to his time with the 
company 
as 
his "most valuable I
experience," and credits it with 
m otivating him to pursue a career as a 
public high school teacher. "This I
program couldn't have started without 
YaJe graduates," Rich said. "It needed 
their idealism a11d vision." 


Though TRADES continues to rely 
on Yale undergraduates for volunteer 
assistance, Rich has begun to draw the 
program's staff from the community. 
Trying to give -TRADES a more per-
~ 
manent structure, Rich has encouraged 
the 11 members of the TRADES board 
of directors to aid in supervising. the 
program and in planning its develop-
ment. In addition, this fall he hired an 
assistant director to help raise funds 
and a program director to supervise 
the work crews. Though in the past 
Rich and Dunbar experimented with 
bringing in professional painters-
including other Yale graduates- as 
coordinators and supervisors, they 
found 
that giving trainees more 
responsibility improved their work. 
Now, TRADES pulls coordinators, 
like Penn and Vazquez, from among 
its trainees. 


Penn and 
Vazquez 
now work 
together without supervision. 
TRADES' program director, Eddie 
H oskei, dispatches beginners from the 
training crew to work with them for 
one week each. E,·enruallv, thev will 
lead an "ad,·anced team'" of ·more 
experienced trainees. "They trust us to 
think for ourselves. now." Vazquez 
explained. Both men plan to join the 
union and eventually either start their


own companies or work for a larger 
painting 
firm. 
Though they own 
their tools an(!. on weekends, paint 
small jobs by themselves, neither feels 
ready to leave TRADES. They want to 
learn all the aspects of the business, 
from bidding on jobs to performing 
any necessary carpentry. And they like 
the TRADES management. Members 
of the staff, they said, give trainees 
second- and third- chances if they 
make mistakes or miss days at work, 
and counsel them on problems off the 
job. "They are like family," Penn said. 
"In other words, they 'are the bosses 
everyone in the world wishes they 
had." 


The example set by Penn and 
Vazquez, Rich feels, will encourage 
trainees to stay with the program by 
showing them that mobility exists 
within TRADES. In the past, he ex-
plained, 
have quit after 
being with the company only a few 
months 
because 
they are dis-
satisfied with 
their wages. 
Now, 
they might be less hasty. "A lot of them 
want to be doing what we're doing 
now," Vazques said. Rich feels that a 
certain number will always quit 
because they find 
the work too. 
difficult. But according to Penn, "Once 
you get it down pat it's easy." Vazquez 
agrees. "When you like what you're 
doing you don't think of it as work," he 
said. "And when you finish, you get a 
gOOd satisfaction because it comes out 
nice. You look at it, and all those hours 
of hard work- they don't matter 
because when you look at it at the end, 
you get a good satisfaction inside. You 
can say, We did that house.'" 


James Bennet, a junior in Timothy Dwight, 
is on the staff of TN]. 

**Title: Celebrating a Great Unknown**
**Author: Peter Zusi**
**Page number(s): 11-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Hermann Broch in Saybrook courtyard. 
The courtyard 
fa~ades of Saybrook 
College are like gravestones. Names of 
the important and wealthy of Yale's 
past have dug their way into the waps, 
along with honorary epithets such as, 
"prodigal in labors for public good, 
guide to all things fine." Not that I 
expected to find H ermann Brach's 
name carved ornately into stone, but I 
did hope that the Saybrook library 
would contain some record of his time 
at the college. Up in the library I 
flipped through a scrapbook from 
1949, those happy days when every 
third person answered to "Zeke" or 
"Ros" or "Grant," also the year that 
Brach was a Savbrook associate fellow. 
T here were tw~ pages on the fellows, 
but Broch did not appear among them. 
The last picture to catch my eye 
showed a man wearing a bra, and 
below it someone had written: "Trying 
to outdo Jane Russell, Don?" 
Scene change: the white walls of the 
Beineckt> Rare Book and Manuscript 
Library. Cool and austere- no one 
would ever carve names into these 
walls - their smooth marble panels 
provide a fitting background to the 
quiet and purposeful manner of K rista 
Salmons, curator of German 
literature. She leads me towards her 
office, farther into Beinecke than I 
really care to go, where a bust of Broch 
sits on a shelf. He has serious, deep 
brows and is looking towards the floor. 
Salmons opens up a black cardboard 
box and inside lies a thick slab of 
typescript, corrections scribbled here 
and there on its many pages; this is the 
working copy of The Death of Virgil, 
Brach's greatest novel. Salmons is 
smiling. 
Broch spent the last years of his life 
at Yale, but left little mark here outside 
of his few personal friendships and the 
immense Broch archive at Beinecke. 
Because it contains his one hundredth 
birthday, 
however, 
this year has 
brought him special attention. 
Academicians 
like 
to celebrate 
birthdays with scholarly conferences, 
and the two most notable Broch 
centennial celebrations took place in 
Stuttgart and at 
Yale. Those 
organizing these conferences, along


Broch spent the last 
years of his life at 
Yale, but left little 
m ark here outside of 
his few personal 
friendships and the 
immense Broch 
archive at Beinecke. 

with related memorial events, hope to 
increase Broch's audience; not an 
enviable task, for Broch is virtually 
unknown outside of the literary and 
academic circles which consider him 
one of the greatest authors of this 
century. 
Hermann Broch-born Vienna 1886, 
died New Haven 1951-wrote really 
long sentences. Some of them are 
burdensome, some are lyrical, and at 
least one is just plain 12 pages long. 
Twelve 
pages. 
Broch's English 
translator, Jean Starr Untermeyer, 
along with a few scholars who paid her 
an extended visit, spent a 
week 
unravelling this particular sentence. 
The complexity of Broch's 
prose 
divides opinion on him, and perhaps 
constitutes one obstacle to his gaining a 
wider readership. Broch is difficult 
going. At his worst he is ponderous, 
overstated, self-indulgent, and 
irritating. Herman Weigand, whose 
early essay "Broch's Dtath of Virgil: 
Program 
Notes" provided the 
metaphor of the book as a symphony, a 
metaphor which to this day occurs 
in almost any discussion of the book, 
referred to The Death of Virgil as a 
"monstrous phenomenon of a book." 
And Weigand liked the novel. 
But when Broch is good, the length 
of his sentences becomes a marvelous 
attribute, endowing them with a 
unique poetic rhythm. His prose style 
and thematic material betray the 
influence of an academic training in 
philosophy and place him firmly within 
the German literary tradition. But 
flashes of a dry wit sneak through,


At his worst he is 
ponderous, over-
stated, self-indulgent, 
and irritating. 

often working subtly but sometimes 
creating an outright funny moment. 
Early on in The Sleepwalkers, Broch's 
other major novel, the main character, 
a stiff upright man belonging to the old 
Imperial German society, rides in a 
droshky with a dark gypsy-like woman 
named Ruzena. Broch relates: 
But when, as in a dark cave, they sat in tne 
droshky under !he covered roof with the rain 
flaps lei down, the fain! sofl drumming of the 
raindrops on 1he s1re1ched leather above 
them, seeing nothing of the world save the 
coachmen's cape and two grey strips of 
roadway through the opening on either side, 
and soon not even seeing that, then their 
faces bowed cowards each ocher, met, and 
melted together, dreaming and flowing like 
the river, lost irrevocably, and ever found 
again, and again sunk timelessly. It was a 
kiss !hat lasted for an hour and fourteen 
minutes. 
Broch's style changes tremendously 
depending on his purposes. As one 
progresses through The Sleepwalkers the 
sentences get shorter, less romantic, 
more philosophical. As does Joyce in 
Ulysses, Broch plays with different 
forms of narrative: he writes one 
section in dramatic form, and a 
number as poetry. Yet it is in the long, 
lyrical sentences of The Death of Virgil, 
however, that Broch's style becomes 
most uniquely his own. 
Though Broch has in the past, 
especially in 
the United States, 
belonged 
mostly 
to the academic 
world, recently public interest in his 
work has increased. The Sleepwalkers 
and The Death of Virgil have come out in 
new 
paperback editions, 
and his 
Bergroman has recently been translatt:d 
under the title The Spell. A major 
biography by Paul Michael Luetzeler 
appeared in German last year, and a 
new edition of Ernestine Schlant's 
biography/study of Broch in English is 
about to be released. A number of 
popular and influential contemporary 
literary figures, such as Susan Sontag 
and Milan Kundera, have mentioned 
Broch either as one of their favorite 
authors or as a majo. influence on their 
own work. 
In spite of this subtle increase in 
public recognition of Broch's work, 
however, the academic world can still 
safely claim him for its own. The Yale 
centennial conference brought together 
scholars from all over Europe and the 
United States. Enti•ced "Literature, 
Philosophy, Politics, and the Mind of 
Hermann Broch," it began on 
November 20 and continued through 
November 22. 
Three speakers presented papers in 
each session of the conference, and 
every paper received a reply. Though 
German was the native language of the 
majority of the audience, most of the 
talks were given in English. When the 
discussion got interesting the reply 
period generated a heated exchange, 
and when it got really interesting the 
speakers strayed far from the original 
topic, often lapsing into German. Thus 
one session began with a paper on 
children in Broch's work, inspiring a 
discussion which took on religious 
overtones when the children were 
placed in the role of redeemers. Then 
the discussion became psychoanalytic, 
both of Broch and of his characters, 
eventually raising the question of 
whether this work of Broch's should be 
regarded from the literary standpoint 
at all, or perhaps, because the work 
was never finished, of whether the 
political circumstances and societal 
influences were most important, and 
then finally the themes met, melted 
together, and it was time for the coffee 
break. The talk may well have lasted 
for an hour and 14 minutes. 



**Title: Hermann Broch: A Yale Retrospective**
**Author: Peter Zusi**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
, at 
two things were clear about Broch : he always smoked a pipe 
and was never short of lovers. 
This was 
not 
the 
first 
Broch 
carrying five such old lovers when it 
conference at Yale. The first happened 
broke down. They were stuck together 
in 1979, inspired not by any significant 
for three hours. 
date but rather by a grant from the 
As in '79, this year's conference was 
Austrian Institute. It produced some 
accompanied by an exhibition from the 
interesting stories. "Broch haunted that 
Broch archive at Beinecke. Among the 
conference," 
said 
Steve Dowden, 
papers contained in the archive are the 
Assistant Professor of German at Yale 
typescripts of The Death of Virgil and 
and coordinator of this year's 
The Sleepwalkers, as well as a section of 
conference. He mentioned a specific 
Virgil 
written out 
by 
hand, 
incident in which an elevator broke 
dating from a period when Broch was 
down. 
had 
been 
a 
great 
imprisoned by the Nazis and had no 
womanizer in his lifetime, though 
access to a typewriter. The archive also 
always careful to keep his many 
contains Broch's notebooks 
from 
women friends unknown to each other. 
college, 
mostly 
math 
and 
But Broch is dead now and can no 
philosophy courses. And then there are 
no longer do that. A number of those 
the letters, many of which remain 
women, still alive, often attend Broch 
unpublished: Broch's letters to his first 
conferences and events around the 
wife ('they are slushy and embarras-
world, though each keeps her distance 
sing,' explained Salmons) and letters 
from the others. The elevator was 
from Untermeyer, who, in addition to 
being his translator was also for a while 
h is lover, until they fought and she 
began 
wntmg him angry letters 
('scathing,' a:, 
Dowden 
described 
them). These are among the 1tems 
available only at Beinecke; together 
with the papers and archive 
photographs they com~prise the only 
surviving mark which Broch's person-
ality left on the Yale campus. 


Almost everyone who knew Broch 
agrees upon two facts: he had a great 
many lovers and he was always 
smoking a pipe. Though quiet and 
reserved, he had a strong, magnetic 
personality which caused many who 
knew him, especially women, to idolize 
h im. Mary Weigand, the wife of 
Herm an Weigand, has tremendous 
respect for Broch, but does feel that he 
needed a lot of personal attention. "He 
was narcissistic. I think all those lovers 
were in some way so many mirrors." 


Broch received many, many marriage 
proposals. Annemarie Meier-Graefe, 
who became his second wife, was so 
persistent in her efforts to marry him 
that 
he 
finally relented-on 
conditions that the marriage be secret 
and that she Oy to Paris immediately 
afterwards. When Broch died two 
years later, the marriage was still 
secret. 


Considering 
his background, 
Broch's having become a novelist at all 
is remarkable. He was born on Nov-
ember 1, 1886 to ajewish family which 
was in the textile business. When he 
was old enough, his family encouraged 
him to enter the business instead of 
going to school, and so he took over his 
family's mill at Teesdorf, which he ran 
quite successfully. The Beinecke 
archive even contains the design of a 
textile machine which Broch patented 
at this time. But Broch wished to 
pursue his intellectual interests, 


namely philosophy, and so during the 
economic crisis of the twenties he took 
the opportunity to sell the family 
business and enroll at the University of 
Vienna. 


He 
studied 
most! y 
mathematics and 
philosophy. 
H e 
planned on gaining a doctorate in 
philosophy, but the logical-positivist 
school of thought predominant at that 
time among the Vienna Circle took 
little 
interest 
in 
those 
areas 
of 
philosophy which Broch found most 
fascinating- ethics and metaphysics. 


It was at this point that Broch turned to 
literature. 


The Slttpwalkn-s, his first novel, 
appeared in 1931 , a year after Broch 
left school. This was the begining of a 
period of high productivity, during 
which he completed many essays, 
poems, a play, and worked on his 
novel Bn-groman. of which there are 
three extant versions, only one of 
which he completed. Then in 1938 the 
Nazis imprisoned Broch in Austria for 
close to a month. His imprisonment 
was not due to his being a Jew (much 
earlier, in 1909, Broch had converted 
to Catholicism, 
though from 
begining he was less than devout), but 
rather to the Nazis' incorrect belief that 
he was a communist. A number o f 
friends Oamesjoyce and other literary 
figures among them) intervened and 
managed to gain his release, but 
Broch, fearing that his J ewish origins 
would be discovered and that he would 
be reimprisoned, 
emi~rated first to 
England and then to the United States. 


In the U.S. Broch lived in New York 
and then Princeton. At Princeton he 
rented a room in the house of the 
scholar Erich Kahler, and at this point 
his circle of friends included Hannah 
Arendt, Albert Einstein, and Thomas 
Mann. In 1945, still at Princeton, he 
completed Tht Death of V1rgil. 


In 1949 Broch contacted Herman 
Weigand, then Professor of German at 
Yale, 
with whom he had started 
correspouding after the appearance of 
Weigand's 
essay two 
years 
earlier. Broch wanted to know if he 
could get a position at Yale. "He was 
hoping for an appointment as a writer-
in-residence," said Mary Weigand. 
"H e saw that things weren't going 
anywhere at Princeton, which was why 
he wanted to leave." He had also had a 
bad fall in which he shattered his hip, 
and his room at Princeton required a 
three story climb. So Yale instated 
Broch as a fellow of Saybrook College, 
where he stayed for three months, at 
the end of which time he became a 
lecturer in the German department. 


His position, however, was tenuous: 
he had no teacqing duties and httle 
salary, and his financial situation, 
weak throughout his life, allowed for 
little luxury. 


Work on 
mass 
psychology, which had started to 
fascinate him and his friend Elias 
Canetti, occupied most of Broch's 
time. H e left Saybrook for a one room 
apartment at Lake Place, where his 
books took up an entire wall. 


Shortly thereafter there began a 
movement to secure for Broch the 1950 
Nobel Prize for literature. It almost 
happened: the vote was close enough 
that Thomas Mann's influence was 
decisive. But Mann had previously 
committed his vote, and William 
Faulkner 
took 
prize. 
The 
committee slated Broch for the 1951 
prize- they later pushed it back to 
1952-but that was too late: Broch 
died on May 30, 1951 of a heart attack; 
his ashes were buried in Killingworth, 
Connecticut. 


But Broch's death may not have 
been so untimely. H e might even have 
consciously or unconsciously courted 
his death. H e had suffered a heart 
attack earlier that same year and was 
still weak, yet the day he died he had 
carried large suitcases up the flight of 
stairs to his house. Many believe that 
after completing Tht Death of Virgil he 
did not have another book in him, and 
that he probably knew this. 


His imprisonment 
was not due to his 
being ajew, but 
rather to the Nazis' 
incorrect belief that he 
was a communist. 


Broch's last months were disarm-
ingly simple: he visited his small group 
of friends, studied, and wrote letters. 
"He never got very far from his own 
mind," said Mary Weigand. "I think 
he was mainly interested in putting his 
thoughts down on 
paper." His 
thoughts at this time chiefly concerned 
his work on mass psychology and 
mathematics, and he produced little on 
"literary" subjects. 


But though 
members of the German department 
greatly respected Broch , Yale 
University had little interest in him. 
Whether it was due to his lack of 
formal academic training, or perhaps 
to some lingering anti-semitism, it is 
unlikely that Broch would ever have 
gained a substantial position at Yale. 


So now Hermann Broch resides in 
Beinecke. He has a larger room, but it 
still contains mostly books. They are 
"monstrous phenomenon" of books, to 
be sure, but "it is by no means 
unthinkable," as Weigand concluded 
in his essay, "that Broch's Death of Virgil 
should continue to stand as the 
twentieth 
century's 
towering 
monument of a mystically oriented 
spirituality." 


Mystic? Spiritual? 
Unusual adjectives to apply to a 
Modern author. It is questionable even 
whether they are accurate for Broch: 
throughout the Yale conference, he 
was kicked and tossed from one 
theoretical ground to another, and 
seemed to send roots equally deep into 
each. He took it stoically, however, 
and remained unscratched: his bust 
stared at the floor of Krista Salmon's 
office, photographs of him gazed from 
under the glass cases of the Beinecke 
exhibit, 40 or 50 people watched as 
speakers spoke and rebutters rebutted 
- and Broch's name sunk deeper into 
some wall, somewhere . 


• 
Pekr Zusi, a junior in Silliman, i> a>sociatt 
editor cif TNJ.


**Profile: Four Voices of the Coalition Against Apartheid**
**Author: Susan Orenstein**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"Last year, I didn't go 
to PROP because I 
didn't know those 
people and felt 
intimidated. I think 
that's where prejudice 
comes from, from 
intimidation from a 
group." 
When students at Yale think of the 
Coalition Against Apanheid. certain 
images tend to come to mind: a reo 
arm band tied on a sleeve, the sides of 
the shanty plastered with flyers, the 
strained faces of people chanting, the 
sound of urgent voices. Those wearing 
the arm bands, sitting in front of the 
shanties or opening their mouths to 
chant tend to be viewed as a group, in 
generalized terms. Those not involved 
often describe them as "politicall-x 
correct," liberal, 
self-righteous, or 
elite. Profiling four students here is not 
an attempt to let the movement defend 
iuelf, but an attempt to listen to four 
voices, voices that chant in unison at 
rallies but have many things of their 
own to say. 


They don't just talk about the 
reasoning behind divestment or their 
outrage over apartheid. 
Students 
leaving rallies go to classes or libraries 
or other meetings. Black students 
return 
to 
the 
white structures · 
surrounding them at Yale. A graduate 
student goes home to a dependent 
cbild. And all of them, while moving 
forward towards a goal, go back time 
and again to the past, to the source of 
their motivations, for they cannot 
separate themselves from their fAmily 
backgrounds, 
political 
orientations, 
standards of living. Away from 
th~ 
rally context, students working for 
divestment take Ofr new dimensions. 
They give a 
picture not just of 
themselves but of issues related to the-
movement against apartheid. 

Amy H olloway's black consciousness 
determines her perspective both as a 
student and as an activist. It grounds 
her opinions on classes, peers. and the 
c.oalirion Against Apartheid. Amy. TC,'89, 
commits herself ideologicaJly to homan 
rights issues, not only those wh1ch 
ooncern South Africa, and she came to 
Yale with no strong opinion on 
divestment. "I guess I was concerned 
activism was at a lull. It was something 
new for me to ~o into," she says. "I 
don't know what specifically made me 
pick the CAA. Certain things were in 
the back of my head. Plus, there was 
concern over people dying. It seemed 
like an urgent thing, so that scnte of 
urgency attracted me." Stin new to tM 
facts when she became involved last 
spring, Amy felt 
uncomfortable 
articulating her views; she even 
reaisted sitting outside the dinina hall 


a pet1t10n,. N~, more familiar 
with other issues raised . by 
the reasoning on both sides, she 
labeling of groups, the 
Qf racism in activi.un, a 
of alienation from Yale. 

Amy wears her red arm band as a 
ponytail gathering up the many $mall 
braids that cover her head. She speaks 
openly about her own problem& with 
labeling, and there is an uncertainty in 
her pauses, her eyes looking off to one 
side. "I feel So persecuted by this label 
thing, but I perpetUate it, and ~· can't 
get 
of it . . . I might tend to 'lump 
ldl 
conservatives together. 
~A 
, 
I'm not aware of 
lhl:11i117es as different groupa the 
with human-rights 
that is a probleJD." she 
;~en~~ing on her words as 
~· 
"La$t year, I didn't go 
t;Duae I didn't know those 
felt intimidated. I think 
comes from, 
from a 
group, 
know what a group is 
kind of inexcusable 
about it, but it's easy to 
-
~onsidcm. not just t{le way- others view raci8.Pl in general,, when you don't ask 
herbut the way others treat her. Before why!' ThiQ)Ung for a while, she adds 
her arrest' last year, for example she that tHe reasons fur the lack of hl ... r ... ~ 
.. ~· 
thought aljout whether th la_w,taffects invoJ 
ent in the Coalition cannOt be'lo 
whites and blacks different!~ "It's an generalized. "A woman at the 
important issue for any~, but it is wptbhpp made roe remember 
true that non-white people always have 
~e aJot of intra-racial differences, 
a different positicm., in our society, a 
~ot ~ me!,hbers of black groups 
Jess advantageous position. It makes to be ;llcrivists." 
me a little more wary." Such wariness 
Amy herself doesn't feel labeled 
contributes to a feeling of alienation in an activist, but still, it troubles her 
classc:s that focus predominantly on when .someone says, 'l see you at the 
western ideas. "In English, there>s all shanties all the time.' "I ~ 
it's 
this stuff I~ sick of. Then: are these because. rm really self-conscious," she: 
western epics that lay the basis for this sayt. •1 guess when anyo~ says 'Amy, 
western culture, but 1 see that c:u'kure yotire pd.,' I shy away because I 
not always including me, and tbat's dodt teally beJicwe in myself." The 
frustrating." 

Amy sees a problem in the higher ~ 
Maift also troubles her. "I guess 
number of whites involved in CAA ~e 
afraid of what it is. They just 
than blacks. A prefer~ to wOl'k aee tht actions, but there's no reason 
through Black St•1dent Allianc:e at Ya16 aot to check it out, or maybe they're 
(BSAY) may account for some of the not aware of"it.l feeltike some people 
disparity, 
but still, CAA saw a don't want to lstop and see the 
need for a recent workshop entitled shantiea.,. 

Amy says she tends to resist 
",Racism in Activism." Amy made sure leadership and speaking roles. "It's 
she could go. "I think differences have easy fot"me to act, to wee in simplistic 
to be acknowledged between white tenns1 tosay"thesepeoplearedyingin 
people and non-white people. South Africa, I Wll~Jt to abo,ut for them 
Sometimes in activist groups, the than • 
differences aren't treated. I think Leaders in genua! '8ll!e in terms 


TheNewJo~S.I!~86 17 

of groups, but I don't, I think about 
what I'm doing each day." Whatever 
the complexity of her views on other 
issues, Amy has a simple position on 
investments in South Africa. She looks 
straight ahead without pausing when 
she says, "We talk about liberty and 
freedom, so why do we have the nerve 
to be there? Our capitalism could make 
apartheid better, someone said once. 
But I don't want to see blacks advance 
in that type of society. I mean, here, 
bla~ks make a lot more money than 
they used to, but it's still set up in that 
hierarchy with whites at the top. so 
people say 'a black will never be 
president."' 

At a time when CAA has been 
quiet on cam pus, when burn-out from 
last spring's actions and frustration 
from this fall's suspensions have kept 
chanting at a minimum, Amy's clear 
beliefs on good and bad politics keep 
her active. "We've put a lot of energy 
into this, and the administration hasn't 
answered. But we're aware of that, and 
we're going to start doing more. I guess 
you never get a change within yourself 
unless you go up and down." 

Steve Marchese, MC 
'88, 
feels 
different from other whites in CAA. 
H e 
grew up in a 
working-class 
neighborhood in Queens, 
New 
York-a background which contrasts 
sharply with the high standard of living 
associated with Yale. H is first day in 
1984 was an important first for his 
family, none of whom had attended 
college. He came, he says, as a 
moderate moving towards the left, 
"equivocating" about politics. Rallies 
last March pulled him to Beinecke 
Plaza, and once the shanties went up 
he stayed for planning sessions late 
into the night. Now, sitting in his dorm 
room, he looks clean-cut, with a small 
mustache and dark features. Not" used 
to being interviewed, he bashfully 
admits that he has just vacuumed the 
rug. O penly expressive, he has a 
welcoming way of talking, his hands 
moving to emphasize his points. "I was 
helping with the shanty repairs and 
what really riveted me was I felt we 
had a right to have the shanties up," he 
says. "I didn't get galvanized until I felt 
there was something really wrong; die 
whole free speech issue really got me 
moving." 

Steve knows of the image many 
people have of CAA. "I think there's a 
tendency at Yale to label divestment 
activists as politicalfy correct . . . . 
They might think you're a little shrill 
and a little self-righteous. It bothers me 
a lot because I didn't get involved to be 
politically correct." Seeing himself as a 
"People were wearing 
their arrest tickets on 
their jackets. I didn't 
like feeling that I had 
to apologize for not 
getting arrested." 
liberal in 
general 
politics but 
a 
m oderate in CAA, he has at tim es felt 
alienated. "There was a feeling in the 
group that if you didn't get arrested, 
0 
you weren't committed. It wasn't stated 
like that, but people were wearing their 
arrest tickets on their jackets. I didn't 
like feeling that I had to apologize for 
not getting arrested." 

H is reasons for being personally 
unwilling to risk arrest stem largely 
from his background. "I come from 
Archie Bunker territory," he says, "and 
it's endowed me with a more pragmatic 
strain. I always understood that when 
someone came up with a grand plan, 
there was a cost involved, and the 
people who paid weren't on Park 
Avenue but the people I was. living 
with . . .. I don't think there are a lot 
of people 
from 
background in the movement. I don't 
think that makes their commitment 
any less valid. But I think it does affect 
how they look at issues . . . they can 
afford to be ideological. For me to risk 
arrest and suspension is asking me to 
~ risk everything I've ever worked for." 

Likewise, he feels non-whites face a 
11: 
greater risk of scrutiny and jucjgment 
~ 
• for getting arrested. This situation, he 
~ says, may keep some non-whites away 
~ from CAA. "I think people in the 
~ group regardless of how progressive 
they'd like to see themselves still have 
racist ideas, conscious or unconscious, 
and I include myself in this . . 
• As 
an organization we don't seem very 
approachable. Non-whites on campus 
probably see us as a white organiza-
tion." 

Steve says that non-whites do not 
join the group for two reasons. 
First- people obviously won't feel 
comfortable if they're the only non-


•J feel so persecuted bv this label thing," says Amy Holloway, a member ofCAA. 
18 The New JournaUDecember 6, 1985 



**Title: Student Activism at Yale**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
whites in the group. The second reason 
involves a feeling Steve has himself. 
Because people with his background do 
not traditionally come to Yale, he feels 
he had to work hard to get here and his 
family had to work hard to put him 
·here. Coming mainly for an education, 
he feels a pull- an obligation even- to 
focus on academics and activities 
promoted by the University. H e feels 
this pull may also exist for non-white 
students, and he senses that many are 
apolitical. 

D espite his own background, Steve 
says he has formed an ideology that 
pushes him towards activism. "I'm not 
saying Yale divesting is going to get rid 
of apartheid, but how can I sit here on 
my butt and do nothing?" he says with 
emphasis, hitting his leg. "I think there 
are times that you have to leave debate 
behind and do something." And he 
does. Steve sees his value to CAA in 
terms of committment and time, and 
he works on projects such as 
organizing a recent discussion for 
freshpeople. Sometimes sensing. that 
his efforts may not bring a return in 
the form of divestment, he wonders 
whether his work does any good.:··But 
the answer really does not matter. "I 
think about the images, the people 
affected by apartheid, read some of the 
literature around the shanties . . . I 
know I can't change a system myself, 
but obviously doing nothing will do 
nothing." 

Though he expends much energy 
fighting Yale policy, Steve resists 
feeling completely alienated from the 
University. "What I feel alienated from 
are the types of people who fall head 
over heels for the whole place and say, 
'Look at tradition - tt's fantasttc; who 
don't think a little more about who they 
are and what's happening here. There's 
an incredible amount of insensitivity in 
the administration." Still, experiencing 
college remains important to him, 
tradition and all. He goes to Mory's, to 
Wbiffenpoof concet:ts and football 
games. "When I look back at Yale, I 
think I will feel they were very good 
years," he says. "There's still a lot of 
Boola Boola left." 

Steve Mar,chese's working-class back-
ground d etermines his perspective on 
stude~t activism . 

Like most students, Nancy Fishman, 
DC 
'88, 
came 
to 
Yale for 
the 
opportunities it offered her, 
academically, socially and extracur-
ricularly. Turning over much of her 
time to CAA meant, in effect, that she 
could not engage in her own life the 
same way. And her orientation at Yale 
changed substantially. Late last spring, 
for exampte, Nancy went to a Yale 
symphony concert in Woolsey Hall. 
Sitting down as the music began, 
she looked at the rows of faces 
surrounding her. After a few minutes, 
she realized that for the first time in 
months she was in a crowd that wasn't 
chanting. A white student from New 
York City, Nancy jokes about the 
frustrations of being a middle-class 
radical. At one time, she says, she 
really was a knee-jerk liberal who 
didn't take · the time to learn specific 
issues and act. But today she claims 
·her involvement is deeper. "You can't 
stay 
with 
it very 
long and 
be 
committed if you're knee-jerk. That's 
probably why the number involved 
fluctuates a lot." 

Nancy literally wears irony on her 
sleeve. A red arm band is tied above 
her elbow, bunching the material of a 
thick Yale sweatshirt. The image 
suggests other combinations, other 
parts to balance-student life and 
activist life, allegiance and protest, 


**VOTED BEST MEXICAN FOOD**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 22**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
VOTED BEST MEXICAN FOOD 
in New Haven 
1986 Advocate Award 
OPEN EVERY DAY 
161 Park Street, New Haven 562-2499 
6 Dickerman Street, Hamden 288-378~ 
MASTERCHARGE, VISA, DINERS, CARTE BLANCHE


**Yale's Divestment Movement**
**Author: Susan Orensuin**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

"There's a certain 
nru.veness among 
people in the CAA 
which may be a 
function of youth and 
social background." 
good but there's also a tendency to 
gloss some of the realities." 
Mikal believes that Yale's policy in 
South Africa is not wholly inconsistent 
with Yale's "less than humanistic" 
p rinciples. The western establishment 
has a tendency to support business 
interests and entrenched elites over the 
democratic interests of people, 
particularly those of color and those 
resorting to violence. He feels that 
people who resist analyzing Yale's 
posture also fail 
to see that the 
University might in fact be living up to 
its principles. People don't want to see 
that the policy is Yale's attempt to 
ensure continued benefits, he says, so 
1 
they try to show how divestment would 
create change. But in making its 
policy, the University's primary con-
sideration is how divestment affects 
Yale, not how it affects South Africa. 
If the 
people involved 
in 
the 
movement fail 
to 
sec discrepan-
cies bct~een thP. University's ethical 
positions and its political-economic 
ones, then these students will continue 
to misdirect their energies and to feel 
disillusioned with the movement. 
Anxious to pursue this issue with 
Benno Schmidt and the public, M ikal 
sees himself as one of the more radical 
activists in CAA. H e stakes out a 
position and raises ne.._,. questions, with 
the hope that they will be considered 
later on. For instance. months ago he 
and several others suggested providing 
material aid to black South Africans, 
and only recently did students address 
the subject at meetings. With this time 
lapse in mind. Mikal considers h imself 
more of a political associate than an 
insider in CAA. His sense of com-
munity comes from other sources-
mostly other black graduate students-


J 
I i 
Mibl Muharrar with hia daughter. 
though he does respect members of 
CAA and relates to some on a personal 
level. 
While he feels strongly about divest-
ment, he hesitates to become a spokes-
person for CAA, a position he's held 
before. Sitting in his apartment with a 
sleeping child on his lap, he says that 
the limelight is too tempting, too 
empowering. H e doesn't feel rep-
resentative enough to 
reflect the 
majority perspective and believes that 
the preoccupation with spokespersons 
tends to undermine the idea of col-
lective leadership. But he will protest, 
he says. What he calls critical optimism 
lets him believe that "South Africa will 
be a victory soon." For him, then it will 
be on to something else. 
To see Mikal, Amy, Nancy and Steve 
together would give no indication of 
what they have in common. They each 
feel a degree of alienation, whether 
from a predominantly white university 
and white movement, or from their 
fellow students and fellow activists. 
They each recognize that working for 
divestment affects the rest of their 
lives, using up some of Yale's most 
precious commodity- t ime- that 
could be spent on academics,· outside 
interests, and themselves. And finally, 
they are all individuals who have 
committed themselves to something 
broader- to the movement against 
apartheid. While no single individual 
sees himself or herself as representative 
of the entire movement, without such a 
:!rOup of individuals, movements-like 
the Coalition Against Apartheid-do 
not exist. 
• 
Susan Orensuin, a junior in Trumbull, is on 
Ilk staff of TNJ.


COUPON 
Foot Long Sub 
Only 
Sk~llfiA~ 
Expires 
Dec/ 31, 1986 
11 Broadway 
New Haven 
787·3454 
C;l~l~~-
787-3454


The \\ORKSHOP 
Unisex Haircutting Couture 
By DICK FERRIULO & FRIENDS 
1150 Chapel Street New Haven 
by appointment only 
777-4123


TYCO 
282 ELM STREET 
(At Broadway) 
NewHnen 
562·9723


XEROX. COPY CENTER 
• OFFSET PRINTING 
• TYPESETTING 
•TYPING 
• BINDING 
• RUBBER STAMPS 
• LAMINATING 
• WORD PROCESSING 
• XEROX COLOR COPIES 
•RESUMES 
• REPORTS 
• DISSERTATIONS 
• PROGRAMS 
• LBTTBRHBADS 
•BNVELOPES 
• TICKETS 
• REDUCTIONS 
• BNLARGEMBNTS 
• 35m.m SLIDES ENLARGED 
• TRANSPARENCIES 
• LABBLS 
• BUSINESS CARDS 



**For Country and For Yale**
**Author: Daniel Waterman**
**Page number(s): 24**

"There was a time 
when joining the 
military was 
considered part of a 
general education . 
It was more than 
patriotism. It simply 
made you a well-
rounded person." 
A craftsman's hands place a slab of 
crude steel into the coals of a fiery 
bellows. The slab begins to take shape, 
as 
it 
is 
pounded, 
molded, 
and 
straightened, then immersed in water, 
removed and polished. Finally, etched 
and adorned, the sword is placed in the 
hands of a U.S. Marine who wields it 
proudly. That image, the slow dream-
like transformation of crude metal into 
a decorated emblem of prestige and 
power flashes daily across America's 
television 
screens. 
Though 
a 
commercial advertisement, 
is a 
metaphor, 
sense, 
of the 
transformation of young civilian men 
into members of America's fighting 
elite. But it signifies something greater 
-a change 
in America's cultural 
attitudes towards the armed forces. 
A rene.wed interest in the m ilitary is 
visible 
all 
facets of American 
culture. In college magazines like Dorm 
and Newsweek's On Campus, military 
advertising is heavy, selling slick and 
adventurous images of military life, 
and films like Rambo and Top Gun draw 
the largest crowds. The military has 
taken on a prominence not seen for 
two decades. 
All branches of the 
military are reaching out to college 
students, many of whom are too young 
to recall the effects of the Viet Nam 
war. Some see the military not only as 
a respectable endeavor for students just 
leaving college, but as an honorable 
and prestigious endeavor as well. 
The Reserve Officer Training Corps 
(ROTC), an undergraduate program 
for the Army, Navy, and Air Force, 



**Yale's Military Trainees: A Resurgence of Patriotism and Pragmatism**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
ll\ tQl\H 0 
\l. s. Al\Ml 
flourishes on hundreds of campuses, as 
do others like 
the Marine Pla-
toon Leader Class (PLC) program. 
Local Connecticut recruiters estimate 
that the programs have increased in 
number by 20 percent in the past year. 
And at Yale, more students participate 
in military training programs than 
have in the past ten years. But among 
Yale students the status and repute of 
the armed forces occupy a questionable 
position. 

Only 
18 
Yale undergraduates 
currently participate in officer training 
programs for various branches of the 
military; half of them in the ROTC 
(four in the Air Force and five in the 
Army) and the rest in the Marine 
PLC. In order to pursue their military 
training as undergraduates, 
these 
students must make a number of sacri-
fices throughout the year. Because 
Yale 
hasn't 
sponsored 
a 
ROTC 
program since 1969, ROTC students 
must travel once or twice weekly to 
other Connecticut colleges where the 
programs are sponsored. There they 
participate in classroom training and 
must also 
spend 
one weekend a 
semester in 
the field 
for combat 
training. During the summer after 
their junior year they attend a six-week 
training camp in order to receive a 
commission after graduation. The 
Marine PLC cadets have no commit-
ments whatsoever during the school 
year but attend two six-week or one 
ten-week intensive summer training 
sessions at 
the 
Marine Officer 
Candidate School 
an Quanitco, 
Virginia. Both ROTC and Marine 
students who successfully complete 
their training are offered commissions 
in their branches and, if accepted, they 
become second-lieutenants. None of 
the Yale trainees, however, receive 
academic credit for their training, as 
do trainees at most other coUeges. 
Yale expelled its ROTC program in 
1969, 
partly because of student 
protests and largely because the 
administration felt the program did not 
meet the college's academic sl:mdards. 
The administration and faculty 
decided that no academic credit should 
be given 
for 
the courses, 
that 
instructors should not receive faculty 
status, and that students should not be 
legally obligated to join the service 
after gradu ating. For the last three 


years, however, Yale has maintained a 
policy . of cross-enrollment in the 
ROTC at the University of 
Connecticut and the University of 
Bridgeport for the 
relatively low 
number of interested students. 

Cultural analysts and the media 
have offered 
many reasons why 
military training is on an upswing. 
The most common is the growth of 
patriotism and conservatism in recent 
years. "I've always wanted to join 
because I've always felt an obligation 
and duty of some sort- I guess you 
could call it patriotic," said Matt Jones 
(MC,'89), a sophomore in the Marine 
PLC. Jones completed his first six-
week training session in Quantico this 
summer. He plans to return for the 
second session after his junior year and 
then accept a commission in either the 
Marines or the Navy. 
"I'm very vocal about U.S. foreign 
policy and how the military should be 
deployed," Jones said, "and I have a 
problem with people who take a stand 
and then don't do anything about it." 
Jones considers himself to be a 
Ales Parka- (TD,'88) found the chaDen~ of Marine dUcipline appealins. 

"staunch conservative" and believes 
that the patriotism displayed in the 
July 4 Statue of Liberty commem-
oration is a sign that public pride in 
U.S. political and military instit\itions 
has resurfaced. "The armed forces 
have always been composed of citizens. 
It's a citizens' army, and it has always 
been a respectable thing to do," J ones 
said. J ones believes the stigmas associ-
ated with the m ilitary came only after 
the backlash of VietNam. "Look how 
long it took to build the Viet Nam War 
Memorial. Now people go there and 
cry, people who didn't even know 
others who served. I think people are 
realizing now that it's wrong to lash out 
at those who did serve~ People realize 
it's a job that has to be done and that 
the people who do it deserve some 
respect." 

Norman Dy (SM, '87), a senior who 
has spent all four years at Yale enrolled 
in the Army ROT C, said that al-
though his primary motivation for 
joining ROTC was 
to 
satisfy a 
personal patriotic obligation, financial 
considerations played a large role in his 
decision. While the Marines offer 
cadets a salary of $200 a week during 
summer training, 
ROTC offers 
substantial academic scholarships. Dy 
and the eight other Yale R OTC 
students, 
are 
on 
full 
academic 
scholarships which 
pay for their 
tuition, books, and other expenses 
incurred during the year. ROTC also 
pays for the cost of driving to the 
University of Bridgeport, 30 m inutes 
away by car, where Dy and four other 
officer trainees attend classroom 
training two times a week. Although 
Army ROTC students are not re-
quired to serve in the military for their 
first two years of their undergraduate 
training, those who participate in 
ROTC during their last two years are 
asked to sign a contract binding them 
to three or four years of service after 
graduation. Any student who accepts a 
scholarship from ROTC also agrees to 
serve after graduation. 

According to Dy, most of the public 
sees mandatory service in return for 
financial 
aid as 
frightening 


commitment. "The idea isn't 'Oh my 
God, we're going to have to spend four 
years in the Army'. A lot of people 
think it's like going to prison," said Dy. 
"It's not like going to prison at all. 
You're just defending your country for 
four years and you're getting paid for 
it." Without the scholarship, Dy would 
not have been able to afford paying the 
Yale tuition. He plans to delay his 
entry into active duty in order to 
attend medical school, which the Army 
will also fmance in return for a longer 
time commitment. Dy compared his 
decision to enter the ROTC with that 
of a friend whose four years at MIT is 
being financed by a chemical company 
in return for his commitment to spend 
three years in their employment. 
"When you're in the ROTC," Dy said, 
"you're essentially working 
company." 

But many students across the 
country who participate in some form 
of ROTC do not have ttcademic 
scholarships of anv kind According to 
Scott Bowen (CC, '90), one of Yale's 
four Air Force RUTC students, most 
participants go through ROTC of their 
own volition, simply because they 
desire a career in the military. Bowen 
travels an hour and a half each 
Thursday for classes at the University 
of Connecticut at Storrs, where only 
ten of approximately 200 Air Force 
trainees are on scholarship. "Most of 
those 
people are 
not getting 
money," Bowen said. "That means 
these are people whv look forward to 
and depend on a commission after they 
graduate. To receive the pay and life of 
an officer in the Air Force means a lot 
to them. It's their career. It's what they 
want." 

Bowen, a freshman whose father is a 
doctor in the Navy, came from a 
military home. He said that he has 
never been "gung-ho military" and that 
obtaining financial aid was the biggest 
factor in his decision to go ROTC. 
Because Bowen is a freshman in his 
first year of ROTC, he is under no 
obligation to continue the program 
and has his first year as a grace period 
to examine the program. After that, 
The low visibility and misunderstanding of military trainees at Yale frustrates 
Maureen Ortiz (SY ,'89). 

because he is on a full engineering 
scholarship, he will be committed to 
finish the program and enter the 
service. Although confident that he will 
complete the program, Bowen is skep-
tical about the military as a career. But 
he thinks of his committment to 
ROTC as a fair trade-"l'm not just 
taking the money and running. They 
give to me and I'll give back." 

Aside from these practical financial 
advantages, 
much of the current 
appeal of the armed forces Sl'!ms from 
a renewed respect for the military, a 
sense of the military as a time-honored 
and character-developing endeavor. 
Ron Vanden Dorpel, the Director of 
Corporate and Foundation Relations 
for Yale, is the University's advisor to 
Yale students who are interested in the 
ROTC and other related military 
training programs. A former Air Force 
intelligence officer and a major in the 
Air Force Reserve, Vanden Dorpel put 
himself through school on a full Air 
Force scholarship when he was in 
college. 

Vanden Dorpel sees the military 
taking on a "respectability" it once had 
in years past at Yale. "Woolsey Hall, 
after all, is a war memorial and it 
stands at the very center of campus," 
Vanden Dorpel said. "Yale has always 
been an institution that engendered the 
military." He recalled the mili-
tanzauon of Yale's campus during 
World War II and the consequent 
separation between American 
educational institutions and the 
military which followed that war and 
Viet Nam. "There was a time when 
joining the military was considered 
part of a general education. It was 
something that refined you, and it was 
very natural for people who came to 
Yale to do this. It was more than 
patriotism. It simply made you a well-
rounded person- it was the traditional 
thing to do," Vanden Dorpel said. 

The old sensibilities which Vanden 
Dorpel describes, of the military as a 
necessary and honorable part of a 
"Yale man's" education, appear to be 
resurfacing again. Once seen as an 
opportunity to gain the discipline 
needed for life after the "wild college 
years," the order and regimentation of 
the military have become a desirable 
"rite of passage" in the minds of some 
Yale students. This aspect of the 
military is especially important for 
many of the Marine PLC cadets who 
undergo grueling tests of mental and 
physical 
training at the 
Officer 
Candidate School in Quantico. Ac-
cording to PLC cadets, time spent at 
Quantico is difficult and stressful. 
Nonetheless, the Marine discipline and 




**Yale Military Programs**
**Author: Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"On the Yale Campus 
since 1939" 
Same Day Service 
HAIR STYLES 
Complete Styling Services 
for Men and Women 
82Y2 Wall St. 
19 Broadway 
865-9187 
865·9182 
We Cany Sebastian, Nexxus 
and Redken Products 

**Title: ROTC's Absence at Yale**
**Author: Dan Waterman**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"A lot of people think 
it's like going to 
prison. It's not like 
going to prison at all." 
curriculum, but would treat it as any 
other extra-curricular activity. Because 
the administration still upholds its 
policy that there should be no faculty 
status for instructors, no academic 
credit for the training, and no 
contractual obligatio.n to serve after 
graduation, ROTC will most likely 
never return to Yale as a part of the 
curriculum. Vanden Dorpel also said 
that because Yale recently adopted a 
policy that disallows discrimination on 
the 
basis of sexual 
orientation, 
difficulties between Yale and the 
military would arise because the 
m ilitary is constrained by feder~1 law 
from admitting homosexuals into the 
service. 

Although ROTC could not return as 
an official institution, it could return as 
an extra-curricular activity for Yale 
students to pursue on their own. "It's 
not a question of people at Yale not 
wanting it back," said Dy, who believes 
that student attitudes towards the 
ROTC have changed from scorn to 
ignorance. "It's a question of the Army 
not wanting the ROTC here. It all has 
to do with numbers, and the numbers 
interested in ROTC at Yale are not yet 
worth the ffirmy's time." 

Dan Waterman, a junior in Ezra Stiles, is 
associate editor of TN].


**Title: On the Edge**
**Author: Andy Cowan**
**Page number(s): 32-33**

Lynwood Place looks pleasant enough 
by day. 
Linc;:d with 
trees and 
weathered brick houses, it runs parallel 
to Park Street, a block behind Pierson 
College. Students living off campus 
covet Lynwood housing for 
its 
proximity to the University. They also 
live on those streets immediately 
adjacent to 
Lynwood: 
Edgewood, 
Elm, and sections of Howe and 
Dwight. Although the area is small-it 
would take less than ten minutes to 
walk its borders- it contains the 
majority of Yale's 522 off-campus 
undergraduates. 

In early September of this year, 
students living in this neighborhood 
came under siege. Between August 31 
and September 16, 
various Yale 
students were victims of a rape, an 
attempted rape, five muggings, one 
assault, and two break-ins. The next 
week another Yale woman was raped. 
The situation 1'11ay well have been 
worse than even this indicates, because 
many crimes are never reported. "It 
was terrifying," said Olivia, who 
moved off campus this year. "For a


32 The New journal/December 6, 1985 
week I was completely obsessed with it. 
But you can't let it be a debilitating 
fear." Early September constituted a 
true crime wave which remains power-
fully in the minds of students, even 
though incidents have declined since. 

All have become more conscious of 
their vulnerability. Women especially 
have changed their lifestyles to cope, 
avoiding late-night trips to campus 
when possible, rarely if ever walking 
alone when they do. Others have 
formed a block-watch group. Few 
students criticize the New Haven 
police for being unresponsive to the 
problem, for they feel the police are 
doing all that they can. Yet virtually 
everyone thinks the Yale Administra-
tion and the Yale Police have been 
insensitive to the security needs of their 
off-campus population. Said a woman 
living on H owe, "The administration 
seems to have the attitude that students 
moving off campus are on their own." 

Since the September crime wave, 
many feel Yale can and should take 
more responsibility for the one in ten of 
its students who live off campus . 

While the area has a history of crime, 
most remain unaware of it. The neces-
sarily short collective memory of 
students, virtually none of whom stay 
in the neighborhood for more than two 
years, makes it easy for past outbreaks 
of crime to be forgotten. Students who 
move off campus for the first time tend 
to be totally unaware of the existence 
of crime at all. According to a survey 
conducted by the YCC last year, 91 
percent of off-campus students sur-
veyed believed living in an apartment 
was safe. Were that survey held this 
year, it would not be surprising if the 
percentages were reversed. "I would 
still move off," said Karen, a senior 
who has lived in her apartment for two 
years, "but not to Howe, Dwight, or 
Lynwood." 

Since the beginning of the year, 
students' perceptions concerning the 
safety of the Lynwood area have 
dramatically changed. "There was a 
definite, perceptible increase in crime 
this year," said Larry, a senior living 
off campus for his third year. "I didn't 
feel 
unsafe 
last year." Everyone 


--- Page 33 ---

"Now we're getting 
some feeling of 
resistence from 
community members 
being pushed further 
out." 
interviewed for this article personally 
knew at least one person who was: the 
victim of crime this year. Those who 
lived off last year acknowledged that 
while there were muggings and rob-
beries, the recent crime seemed more 
violent. 

Since September, three 
women in the area, two of them 
students, were raped in their own 
apartments. Several attempted rapes 
occurred in 
the same 
way. 
In 
November another woman was raped 
on Elm Street. 

Police officers and students differ as 
to the primary causes of this year's 
crime wave in the Lynwood area. 
Police officers believe that many of the 
robberies and muggings are motivated 
by a need to get money to buy drugs, 
especially crack. Students, on the other 
hand, shift primary responsibility for 
the crime increase away from the New 
Haven community. Sarah has lived in 
the area for two years and believes that 
the high profile of students makes the 
area a prime target. "There were a lot 
of students last year, but for some 
reason they were not as visible," she 
said. "At the start of this year there was 
a big turn over, with a lot of vans 
moving people in. 
The student 
population is more obviously present." 

Other students see the crime as an 
expression of town-gown tension, 
believing that students are victimized 
not only because of their supposed 
wealth, but because of their affiliation 
with Yale. "There's a lot of violence 
directed by New Haven residents 
against Yale students," said Esther, a 
senior. Some cite the expansion of the 
student neighborhood. "A couple of 
years ago, students did not live on 
Dwight," explained Larry. "Now, one 
block of it is virtually all students, and 
there's more each year. Now we're 
getting some feeling of resistence fro:n 
commumty members being pushed 
further out." 


More awart> nfthe increase in crime, 
many students say their mind-sets have 
changed as a result. "I didn't do any 
work for a month after the crime 
wave," said one student. "I worried 
about going to the lib~ry at nine, and· 
if I was there I worried about how I 
could get home." Many still will not 
spend a night in their apartment alone. 
"I try to be careful, but I have no 
control," said Karen. "People will get 
into this apartment if they want to." 
Another woman, whose apartment 
building is filled with women living 
alone, says she has been preoccupied 
with a vision since a student was raped 
in the building next to her. "I know it 
couldn't happen, but I imagine a man 
getting into the building, and going 
from apartment to apartment, raping 
each of us one after another." 

The New JoumaUDecember 5, 1986 33 



**Off-Campus Security: A Yale Problem?**
**Author:  Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 34-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Delicious Pizza · Gyros · Big Grinders 
Complete Dinners 
Greek - Italian Salads 
Soda - Bottled & Draft Beer 
FAST SERVICE, REASONABLE PRICES 
Just Call in your order-
562-7263 
Sun.·Thurs. 11am·28m 
Fri.·Sat. 11am·3am 
"We give you 
the attention and 
consideration that 
you deserve" 
280 York Street 
New Haven 
777-1111 


gnomon 
•copy 
Mon.-Fri., 8 am-10pm 
Sat., 9 am-5 pm 
Sun., Noon-5 pm 
34 The New JournaVDecember 6, 1985 
"The Yale Shuttle 
dropped me off in 
front of my apartment 
and drove off, leaving 
me alone to fiddle 
with my keys." 
The threat of crime constantly forces 
people to choose between their safety 
and their sense of independence. One 
woman living on Lynwood remarked , 
"It's affected my sense of mobility, to 
be able to come and go as I please." 
Said Betsey, who lives two blocks from 
campus, "It's frustrating, because I 
think of myself as independent." Yet 
many women still walk home alone. 
"Sometimes I walk home alone late at 
night," said a woman who lives on 
Dwight. "I'm completely scared. I'll 
always ask one of my friends to walk 
me home, but they still don't seem 
aware of how dangerous it is. I'll ask, 
but I don't want to be seen as pushy. 
And I don't want to be weak and 
fearful." 

While most students agree that the 
threat of crime has personally affected 
them, only one group has addressed 
the problem with direct action: the 
residents of Lynwood Place, who have 
just been certified as New Haven's 
Block Watch #252. Students working 
with police officers organized the block 
watch in October and November. 
Lynwood had a block watch about five 
years ago, but the transient nature of 
the 
neighborhood hastened its 
disintegration. This time, however, 
determined students want to make it 
last. A block watch can counter the 
fragmentation that usually develops in 
a neighborhood whose residents change 
yearly. "As we formed the block watch, 
we realized we d idn't even know each 
other," 
said 
Catherine, 
a 
watch 
participant. 

Thirteen people attended the third 
block watch organizational meeting on 
November 10, representatives from 
many of the houses on Lynwood. A 
man and a woman from the New 
Haven Police conducted the meeting. 
As it began, a car alarm went off 
outside the house. People laughed 
nervously and looked at each other, 
but no one moved. "It goes off all the 
time," said someone, and everyone 
relaxed. Six burglaries had occurred 
after their first m eeting in September, 
and three more since the second. The 
group would become official soon after 
this third meeting. 

T he 
Police Departm ent's 
rep-
resentative focused on the main tool 
of the block watch , the phone chain, 
for which telephone lists are distrib-
uted to each house involved. The lists 
contain ever y one's 
names 
in 
geographical order. The phone chain 
requires participants to phone the 
police when 
they 
see 
a nything 
suspicious and then to phone the next 
person on the list. In this way, 
residents can safely keep track of a 
suspect as he m oves down the street 
and provide the police with additional 
information. An effective phone chain 
requires people to know each other 
well enough to call their neighbors 
without hesitation. Having a whole 
group involved not only increases the 
chance of otlserving potentially 
dangerous activity, but also decreases 
any stigma attached to one person 
constantly calling 
the· police, and 
diminishes the fear of being singled out 
for retribution by the criminals. 

After the meeting, the police officers 
talked about the problems involved in 
setting up a block watch in a student 
neighborhood . "The main problem is 
the high turnover rate- as people 
graduate, it takes a yearly effort to 
keep people involved," an officer said. 
"To keep people 
involved, we'd 
appreciate Yale's help in getting us in 
touch with students." On Dwight, in 
spite of widespread interest, a block 
watch never got off the ground. "We 
talked about a block watch, but it 
hasn't materialized, due to students 
being involved in so many other 
things," explained Larry. At this point, 
Lynwood remains the only street that 
has organized a block watch. 

Although students are clearly 
interested in taking responsibility for 
their own security, the extent of Yale's 
responsibility remains unclear. As Yale 
students it's clear that they have a right 
to expect some attention from the 
University. Many choose to move off 
campus to get away from poor on-
campus living conditions. 
Forty 
percent of students in the recent YCC


--- Page 35 ---

survey mentioned over-crowding as 
the main reason why they moved off. 
But the Yale administration has not 
addressed any of these issues, let alone 
done something to prevent off-campus 
crime or to educate st~dents about the 
dangers of moving out of the colleges. 
The Security. Committee has met 
twice this semester but has not once 
raised the crime issue. H eaded by 
University Secretary John Wilkinson, 
this Committee includes representa-
tives from the Yale Police, directors of 
various administrative deparfments, 
representatives from the residential 
colleges as well as two graduate 
students and two undergraduates. "It 
has not been a subject of discussion on 
Security 
Committee," 
Wilkinson. But he admitted, "We do 
have an obligation to do all we can to 
help those living near campus, to 
ensure that they can walk safely to 
campus." Currently the Yale Police 
patrols streets on which Yale owns 
buildings, such as Lake Place and Park 
Street. Neither the Administration nor 
the Police, however, seems to have a 
clear off-campus policy, which states 
where their responsibility begins and 
ends. "It's definitely a grey area," said 
Cary Davis, an undergraduate who 
has served on the committee for two 
years. 

The problem 
with determining 
where the Yale Police's responsiblity 
ends further complicates the issue of 
who should be protecting Yale's off-
campus students. Technically the Yale 
Police is not responsible for the 
Lynwood area. Students report crimes 
in the neighborhood to the New H aven 
police. At the same time, the Yale 
P olice, whose receivers pick up New 
H aven Police transmissions, often 
respond to New Haven Police calls in 
the Yale area. Patrolling, however, 
seems to be New Haven's respon-
sibility. Last year, a Yale Police car was 
often stationed near the parking lot 
behind Davenport on Elm street, 
providing a visible deterrent to street 
crime in the neighborhood. Students 
refer to the absence of the police car as 
an 
illustration of the lack of 
involvement on the part of the Yale 
police. So far, however, the possibility 
of a review of Yale's policy has not been 
discussed. 

The Yale administration and the 
Yale Police could pursue a number of 
different policies in an attempt to 
counter the increasing threat of crime. 
They could increase the presence of the 
Yale Police in the area. Although 
available 
manpower, 
as 
well 
budgetary constraints probably 
prohibit a sustained increase, a strong 
presence in September and October 
would go a long way towards cutting 
crime in the area. Not only are 
students highly visible as they move in, 
but they are unacquainted with the 
area. The warm weather in these 
months forces people to sleep with their 
windows open, and also makes it easier 
for criminals to stay on the streets 
longer. December and January, not 
coincidentally, 
are statistically 
months of lowest crime. 

T hough a permanent Yale Police 
presence m 
the neighborhood ts 


**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Andy Cowan**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"I imagine a man 
getting into the 
building, and going 
from apartment to 
apartment, raping 
each of us one after 
another." 
Another way to share information 
with students would be the creation of 
a crime fUe in the housing office, 
containing records of the buildings in 
which break-ins occur. 
Although 
landlords sometimes will install 
secutity devices upon request, it often 
takes a break-in for them to do so. One 
woman mentioned a landlord's reluc-
tance to install bars on the first floor 
windows of a house because that would 
jeopardize the building's status as a 
historic landmark. A well-informed 
housing office could also tell students 
which neighborhoods are statistically 
safest. 
Students will accept a lot of crime 
before they become concerned about 
it. Last year incidents of crime were 
less frequent, and as a result awareness 
of crime was low. When crime goes 
down, 
so 
will aware ;ess, 
unless 
students, police, and the administra-
tion make a concerted effort. "We are 
more afraid now than we were before 
but I don't think that this is necessarily 
a change for the worse," said Olivia. 
"We're more careful now." This year's 
crime wave may h~ve already peaked, 
but it taught ofT-campus students how 
to take precautions. 
Educating 
students now, before they move off 
campus, will prevent their having to 
learn the same lessons the hard way. 
• 
Andy Cowan is a semor in Branford Co/leg~.


**Title: Profile/ Alison Gardy**
**Author:  [No Author Listed]**
**Page number(s): 38-39**

Unconventional Education 
Since 
1980 about 
thirty to fifty 
Yale students each year have taken 
Roots of Radicalism in Latin Amoica, 
designed and taught by 
History 
Professor Emilia Vioui da Costa. 
Both course and professor are virtual 
anomalies at Yale-the former, 
because one would be hard pressed to 
find here another course taught from 
the perspective of radicals, and the 
latter, because Emilia Viotti da Costa 
is the only full professor in the history 
department who is both a woman and 
Latin 
American. 
She offers 
a 
perspective on historv many Yale 
students 
find 
joltinglv 
unfamiliar. 
Many who take the course feel their 
most basic assumptions about the 
world profoundly challenged. Viotti da 
Costa believes this is what learning is 
all about -challenginl{, provoking and 
38 The 
ew JournaVDecemb<-r 6. 1985 
if necessary, infuriating her students in 
order to keep alive the exchange of 
ideas and spirit of debate, values which 
are threatened by a pre-professional 
complacency in even the top American 
universities today. To understand the 
woman 
who 
created 
this 
unique 
history course, we must understand 
the unique history which created this 
woman. 
"Like many Brazilians," said Vioui 
da Costa, "I have many roots." Viotti 
da Costas awareness of her multi-
ethnic background is at the heart of her 
keen appreciation of different people's 
world views. Though born and raised 
in Sao Paulo, Brazil, Viotti da Costa's 
ethnic legacy links her to the Iberian 
peninsula, Genoa, Italy and Puritan 
America. Her maternal grandfather 
descended from a line of Italian liberals 
fleeing political persecution during a 
period when conservatives dominated 
Italy, and her maternal grandmother 
descended from the Dabney family of 
Boston who originally migrated to the 
American colonies on the Mayflower. 
(Technically, 
Viotti 
da Costa is 
entitled to membership in both The 
Mayflower Society and Daughters of 
the American Revolution, though she 
has never pursued this.) Two centuries 
later one Dabney married a Portu· 
guese liberal fleeing persecution to 
Brazil. They went to live in Sao Paulo 
and established themselves there as 
member of an intellectual elite. H e 
became director of Brazil's first law 
school, and many of their children had 
academic or political careers. One of 
them, Viotti da Costa's great grand· 
father, was governor of the states of 


Parana and Maranchao during the 
Empire and First Republic. 
"On my father's side," said Viotti da 
Costa, "the story was much simpler." 
Her father left poverty in a small 
village on the border between Portugal 
and Spain to follow his father who had 
come to Brazil in search of a better life. 
"[My father] was a typical self-made 
man and lived up to the ideals of what 
Max Weber called the 'Protestant 
ethic,' while the descendants of the 
Dabneys became increasingly infa-
tuated with an 'aristocratic' ethic," said 
Viotti da Costa. "That made me 
always suspicious of those cultural 
categories that are so often used in the 
study of Latin American history: the 
opposition between Protestant, Anglo-
Saxon culture and Catholic, Iberian 
culture. In my family, the stereotypes 
were reversed. 
The yankees had 
become cavaliers and the Iatinos had 
become yankees." 
Viotti da Costa grew up in an 
extended family, an experience which 
heightened her awareness of various 
ethnic, political and social groups. Her 
family included atheists, Catholics, 
Protestants and Theosophists, liberals, 
conservatives and anarchists, ruling 
elites and lower-middle classes. Some 
became 
priests, 
others military 
intelligence agents. Viotti da Costa 
recalled many lively debates at the 
dinner table, but because they were all 
family, everyone was expected to 
overcome different points of view and 
tolerate each other. "Probably the most 
important thing I learned," she said, "is 
that human experience cannot be 
reduced to simple formulas. I also 
learned to value tolerance and to abhor 
anv form of dogmatism or chau-
vinism, and to judge people for their 
achievements rather than for their 
status, for what they did rather than 
for what they said." 
She was a passionate student. Her 
mother, "a fanatic reader," introduced 
Viotti da Costa to books at an early 
age. By the time she turned 18, Viotti 
da Costa had read most of the classics 
of French and Brazilian literature, as 
well as books from Russian, English 
and other European traditions. She fell 
in love with theater, music and 
painting. "A Museum of Modern Art 
was created in Sao Paulo and I u~ed to 
spend hours admtring the work of 
Brazilian painters, which revealed to 
me a new way of seeing the world," she 
said. Early on Viotti da Costa wanted 
to become a dancer and her ballet 
teacher encouraged her to become a 
professional. "My family dissuaded me 
very quickly," she said. "As an artist 
m y aunt had faced enormous obsta-
cles, and no one was very happy with 
the idea of having another artist in the 
family." So Viotti da Costa abandoned 
her dreams of becoming a ballet 
dancer. "It was not very difficult to 
quit," she added. "Maybe my vocation 
was not so strong anyway." 
Meanwhile her high school teachers 
encouraged her to become a writer. 
During high school she won second 
place for a literary essay. First place 
went to a colleague of hers who later 
became a poet and one of the fathers of 
the concretist movement in Brazil. 
"Human experience 
cannot be reduced to 
simple formulas." 
"But I was happier with second place 
because I liked the book they gave me 
better," said V iotti da Costa. "It was 
Tolstoy's War and Peace." In her last 
year of high school, however, an 
inspiring physics teacher insisted she 
had a true vocation for physics. "I 
loved the theory of limits," said Viotti 
da Costa, "and a few years later when I 
read Plato's Dialogues I thought there 
was the same beauty born out of clarity 
and logic." Having decided to get 
married, however, Viotti da Costa felt 
she could not commit herself to the 
rigorous, full-time phystcs program at 
the University of Sao Paulo. As a wife 
she was expected to stay at home and 
look after her husband and children, 
doing the shopping, cooking, cleaning, 
"all those 'female' functions." So she 
decided to study history instead. As a 
history student she didn't have to work 
in a laboratory all day, but could do 
most of her reading at home. "To my 
husband, a woman's work was nothing 
but a hobby, and out of his generosity 
he allowed me to go to work," said 
Viotti da Costa. "My children and 
husband thought I was selfish. They 
felt I was stealing something from 
them because I went to work." 
Viotti da Costa traces her original 
love for history to her grandfather, a 
professor of literature, poet and gifted 
storyteller who spent many hours with 
his grandchildren telling them stories 
from Greek legends to Scheherazade. 
But it was only m her last year of high 
school that she found an inspiring 
history teacher. "This was the first time 
I enjoyed history," said Viotti da



**Title: Viotti da Costa dispels myths about Latin America.**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 40-41**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Costa. All previous history courses she 
had ever taken were "mere recitations 
of what was in the text book . . . , 
which required memorization rather 
than understanding. I took a great 
dislike to that kind of history and that 
kind of teaching." 

At the University of Sao Paulo, 
Viotti da Costa chose 
to study 
anthropology, ethnography and an 
Indian language (Tupi) as part of her 
hi!!tory major. She graduated from the 
University with a fellowship from the 
French government to study at the 
Sorbonne's Ecole Pratique des Hautes 
Etudes. By that time she also had a 
baby daughter whom her mother took 
care of while Viotti da Costa studied. 

Viotti da Costa spent one-and-a-half 
years in Paris and fell in love with the 
city. "History was everywhere in the 
streets of Paris," she said. "There was 
an extraordinary atmosphere of 
intellectual activity. Maybe it was all 
imagination, nothing but a 
myth 
cultivated by intellectuals and artists, 
but I swear I could feel it in the air." 

During her time abroad, Viotti da 
Costa 
travelled 
all 
over Europe. 
"Travelling was more instructive than 
many years at the University had 
been. Visiting places and going to 
museums can teach you more about 
history than hundreds of books." She 
added, "But this is probably true only 
after you have read the books and 
heard the lectures." 

When her fellowship ended, she 
returned 
to 
Brazil 
write 
her 
dissertation on the French nobility 
after the Restoration. "I realized that I 
could hardly have a serious career if I 
became a specialist in French history," 
she said. "Our library was poor, the 
University had no money to send 
people abroad. It would have been 
very difficult then to go to Europe as 
often as I needed to keep up with that 
field." She did not consider moving to 
France either. "I was too much of a 
Brazilian," she said. "I missed the 
colors of Brazil while I was in Paris, 
the colors of the earth, of the strong, 
blue sky, the green in winter." Viotti 
da Costa dec.ided the only field she 
could do any serious work in was 
Brazilian history. Focusing on her own 
country, she began a dissertation on 
the transition from slavery to free labor 
in the coffee sector. For about ten 
years, 
she 
researched 
and 
wrote 
numerous essays 
for 
publication. 
During this time she also had two more 
children and was divorced. In 1964, 
her one thousand-page dissertation 
became a book which made her famous 
among academics in Brazil, Europe 
and the United States. 

"When I started writing my book in 
the early sixties,"said Viotti da Costa, 
"Brazilian society was undergoing a 
period of profound political changes." 

Viotti da Costa had spent most of her 
childhood under a dictatorship. "At 
that 
time," she said, 
"fascist, 
corporatist institutions were very much 
in vogue in Brazil." The dictatorship, 
she said, left behind "a legacy of a 
populist political style and mass 
mobilization never seen before in 
Brazilian history." During this time 
Brazil was also undergoing enormous 
industrial changes, and Viotti da Costa 
watched 
Sao 
Paulo's 
population 
explode. (When she was a child, the 
population of the entire municipal area 
totalled about 1.5 million. Today the 
population is about 18 million people.) 

"Styles of living and political styles all 
changed before 
my 
eyes," 
said. "One thing, however, did not 
seem to change: the poverty of the 
people." Slums sprouted in Sao Paulo 
faster 
than 
middle-class 
neighborhoods. "In Brazil," said Viotti 
da Costa, "you cannot avoid seeing 
classes. Social inequality is apparent to 
anyone who lives there. Many times 
people would ring your bell to ask for 
money or food. The contrast between 
rich and poor was overwhelming." 

Viotti da Costa travelled throughout 
Brazil and saw the same contrasts 
between rich and poor on a national 
level. "I could see the oppression and 
ignorance of the people, but I could 
also appreciate their strength and their 
marvellous capacity for survival. I felt 
always very do9e to them: she said. Vl()(ti da 
Costa, like many others, became 
convinced there was something wrong 
with a 
country 
so abundant in 
resources, yet so unable to help its 
poor. 

In the early 60s, a new government 
came into power and Viotti da Costa 
began to notice a fascinating parallel 
between her dissertation on slavery 
and oppression a hundred years ago 
and the reality of her day.. "Like 
nineteenth century conservatives who 
opposed slave emancipation and 
accused the abolitionists of being 
communists, the conservatives of the 
1960s opposed agrarian reform in the 
same way," she said. "The words of the 
past seemed to be echoing in the 
present." The political situation in 
Brazil grew more and more turbulent 
with strikes, student demonstrations 
and rallies. In 1964, the same year 
Viotti da Costa published her 
dissertation, the country was silenced 
when a military coup overthrew the 
government and remained in power 
for almost twenty years. 

During the pre-military years, the 
University had been a politically active 
force. But after the coup, the military 
persecuted students and teachers who 
opposed the regime and forced several 
famous teachers to retire. 

The 
situation worsened when 
in 1968 
several students were arres~ed and on; 
was killed, sparking major student 
demonstrations throughout the 
country. 

Another military 
coup 
brought a more repressive, violent 
regime into power and more people 
were 
forced 
retire from 
the 
University. "I was among about one 
hundred of those forced to retire from 
the University of Sao Paulo in 1969,'' 
said Viotti da Costa. "That meant my 
career was over. At least for the 
moment." 

After her retirement, Tulane 
University invited Viotti da Costa in 
1970 to be a visiting lecturer. She went 
to Tulane having never spoken English 
except during a visit to England many 
years earlier. "' had to write all my 
lectures," said Viotti da Costa, "but my 
students were patient and kind." They 
threw her a party when she left and 


Viotti da Costa went back to Brazil 
with many warm feelings for the 
University and New Orleans. But the 
Brazil to which she returned was even 
more brutal than the one she had left. 
"This was not the world I had been 
brought up in," said Viotti da Costa. 
"It was a new and harsher world, a 
world of stupidity and cruelty, of 
dogmatism and chauvinism, a world 
of careensm and 
opportunism, 
everything I had learned to abhor." 

She was soon invited once again to 
teach in the United States. this time b)' 
the University of Illinois and then by 
Smith College. "My English was im-
proving," said Viotu da Costa, "but I 
still had great difficultv in expressing 
myself. 
Speakin~ in someone else's 
language is a 
very crippling ex-
perience. You fecl'ike a blind person . 
.\-loving from one countrv to another is 
not only learning anothe.r language, it 
is also 
learnin~t tlw proto< ol... the 
signs and codes ol another culture 
That is not an eas\ task K 1\:evertheless, 
some 
Smith 
students 
asked 
University president to im ite her back 
and three of her students went on to 
graduate school in history. "I felt 
rewarded," said Viotti da Costa. "It is 
exciting to see a mind developing. It is 
moving to see someone becoming 
intellectually 
motivated, developing 
criticaJ skills, learning." 

Yale offered Viotti da Costa a 
pos1t10n 
in 
1973, 
where she has 
remained since then, even though her 
children have moved back to Brazil 
and the Brazilian government, in 
1979, invited her to return to her 
former position at the UniversitY of 
Sao Paulo. "Sometimes I think I made 
the wrong decision," she said. In the 
United States, Viotti da Costa feels she 
has experienced sexual discrimination 
on an academic level, something she 
felt she had not experienced in Brazil. 
"In Brazil I never felt for a minute that 
my colleagues discriminated against 
my being a woman intellectual," said 
Viotti da Costa. "The only time I ever 
felt discrimination of that kind was 
when I got to the United States. In 
Brazil, however, there was a form of 
discrimination which I didn't find 
here- the 
discrimination of one's 
husband. While in the United States, 


**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Alison Cardy**
**Page number(s): 43**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Viotti da Costa conceived of the idea to 
teach 
the course after a 
faculty 
meeting. "[At the meeting] someone 
said that we were losing sight of what a 
College of Arts and Science was. He 
said we were giving an excessive 
professional orientation to our students 
and that we should be more concerned 
with 
g1vmg students a 
humanist 
education and helping to form good 
citizens." 

Viotti da Costa thought about what 
it meant to be a "good citizen" and 
decided a good citizen was someone 
with "critical skills," someone "who can 
think on his or her own." As a teacher 
she felt she had a clear role in helping 
her students to become good citizens. 
•Education is not mere communication 
of information. For that people can go 
to the library," she said. "Education is 
also teaching people how to think. I 
should be able to help students develop 
some of the skills necessary to the 
understanding of history." Viotti da 
Costa also considers student 
involvement crucial to the learning 
process. "A lecture, no matter ~ow 
interesting it is, will probably be 
forgotten in a few years," she said. 
"What you never forget is what you 
thought out yourself, the questions you 
were led to ask and tried to answer on 
your own." Viotti da Costa sums up 
her philosophy of education: "As 
someone once said, a student is not a 
vase to be filled but a lamp to be 
lighted. I believe that." 
• 
Alison Cardy, a junior in Ezra StilLs, u on 
~slllffoJTNJ . 
The New Journal/December 5, 1986 43 



**Title: Literature After ''X''**
**Author: Michael Holquist**
**Page number(s): 44-45**

Afterthought/Michael Holquist 
Literature After ''X'' 
I came to Yale graduate school in 1963 
and spent the next 12 years in New 
Haven as a student and member of the 
junior faculty. I left to teach elsewhere 
on a wintry day in December of 1975. 
The snow that stuck to the leaded glass 
windows as I cleared out my office that 
afternoon created a kind of dim quiet, 
and I stopped emptying bookshelves 
for a moment to reflect on the time I 
had spent at Yale. Much had happened 
in the years from 1963 to 197 5: they 
were, indeed, 'the sixties,' a period 
whose meaning sprawled over calen-
dric boundaries into the decade of the 
seventies. 

I had been reminded of this as I 
went through old papers that day and 
discovered a copy of the Yale Dai(y 
News. It was from 1971, but read like a 
catalogue of cliches from the previous 
decade. The top story that day was 
from Kingman Brewster's address to 
the Alumni Association, an item of 
more than usual interest because the 
President had offended many of those 
present by using Alumni Day as an 
occasion to speak out against the Viet 
Nam war; also on the front page was 
an article on the murder trial of Bobby 
Seale, a founder of the Black Panthers, 
which was being held in the New 
Haven court house (with constant 
demonstrations on the Green). On the 
entertainment page 
the Shubert 
Theater advertised a pre-Broadway 
showing of the rock opera Hair, and 
there was a review of a concert given 
by the Yale Symphony Orchestra 
featuring Scriabin's 'Poem of Ecstasy,' 
complete with a light organ that had 
bathed the hall in shifting colored 
strobes and jets of smoke. 

Tucked away on oa~re five, some-
where between news of VietNam and 
reactions to the just-opened Cross 
Campus Library- and just across 
from the newly introduced comic strip 
by an undergraduate named Gary 
Trudeau- was the half-page article 
that had caused me to save that 
particular issue of the Daily News from 
Monday, February 22, 1971. It was an 
article about a new course in Yale 
College called 'Literature X (eks, not 
ten),' and as 
the article's 
title 
('Literature X-World Premiere') made 
clear, it too, in its own way, was a 
review. The piece was there yellowing 
among the papers to be packed 
because, in a modest way, I with 
several others had been involved in the 
planning of Literature X and the series 
of other courses which it was intended 
to initiate. 

Literature X had its origin in a sense 
of crisis in the literary community .. In 
retrospect, there were at least three 
major 
reasons. for 
thinking 
that 
changes in the literary curriculum had 
to be made: the integrity of our 
subject, literature, was being eroded 
by the atomizing claims of different 
national language departments; there 
was a growing conflict in the faculty 
between those concerned with literary 
theory and others who were not; and, 
finally, among students in 1969, when 
planning for the new course began, 
there was an increasing sense that 
literature was 
a 
luxury 
their 
beleaguered generation perhaps could 
not afford- it was not, in the argot of 
the decade, relevant. 

At that time there was no under-
graduate 
offering 
in Comparative 
Literature, and there was widespread 
dissatisfaction with the wav the studv 
of literature was atomized i~to French, 
German, 
English, 
and 
other 
departments. There was a 
history 
department in which the past of all 
these countries could be studied, and a 
philosophy department in which their 
thought could be studied. 
But 
literature was divided along national 
Jines, and the more each department 
refined the concerns of its national 
culture, or sought rigorously to define 
itself as 
profession (Slavistics, 
Germanistik, etc.) the less they seemed 
to have in common with each other. 
The different national adjectives were 
in danger of absorbing the substantive 
they sought to modify. 

And within national language 
departments, 
including of course, 
English, there was further division 
between scholars who pursued literary 
study in traditional ways, and those 
who sought 
to 
engage 
the 
new 
questions about literary methodology 
that began to be raised at the time. It 
was an era of what Thomas Kuhn 
might well have called 'unnatural 
science' 
in 
the history 
of the 
professional study of literature. The 
formerly reigning paradigm, 'New 
Criticism,' had broken down; 
'Structuralism,' which had seemed to 
be its successor in the early sixties, was 
already splintering into the heresies 
collectively labeled 'post-structuralist.' 

Some of these 
heterodoxies first 
emerged in a symposium on the crisis 
in methodology held at Johns Hopkins 
in October, 1966. Two figures who 
were to figure prominently in future 
debates, 
the aging psychoanalyst 
Jacques 
Lacan, 
young 
philosopher nawed Jacques Derrida, 
attracted particular attention. The 
subject of that symposium was 
announced in necessarily plural form 
('The Languages of Criticism and the 
Sciences 
of . Man'), 
plurals that 
reflected the sense many 
in the 
academy then had that their ivory 
tower was becoming a tower of Babel. 

Three years later, in the spring of 
1969, Alvin Kernan, a Shakespeare 
scholar and former Provost, called 
together a group to rethink the future 
of literary study in Yale College. It was 
felt that by bringing together in a 
single course texts from 
different 
national literatures, instructors from 
different literature departments, and 
methodologies 
from 
across the 
spectrum then so richly a,·ailable, we 
might- if not solve- at least more 
openly address problems raised by 
departmental and theoretical schisms. 
By publicly confronting the concerns 
animating us as faculty, it was hoped 
we might persuade students that the 
study of literature had a 
certain 
urgency about it. 

Literature X 
was launched the 
following year, 
and its sense of 
experiment did indeed galvanize 
faculty and students. The desire to 
expand the sense of what might be 
called a text led to excesses which, in 
retrospect, appear very much to have 


--- Page 45 ---

been 
as trendy as 
the course's 
scandalized- and numerous- cnt1cs 
at the time said they were. Some idea 
of why such charges were brought can 
be gathered from the course's syllabus, 
which included not only Sophocles and 
Dickens, but Joseph Heller's anti-Viet 
Nam War protest play, We Bombed in 
New Haven, which had just opened 
(and had, in fact, rather bombed) in 
New Haven; Eric Segal, fresh from 
helping to script the Beatles' Yellow 
SubtrUJrine, lectured on his new novel, 
Love Story; there were comic book 
heroes, Stover at Yale, and the Story of 9, 
as well as visits to theme parks and 
professional wrestling matches. 

Campus language was briefly enriched 
by a new adjective: if a course in any 
subject seemed slightly unusual or 
modish, it was said not to be 'too sexy,' 
but 'too X-ey.' 

When steps were taken to expand 
into a Yale College 
major, many who had not objected to 
the new course felt they had to resist 
the new program that it was- as its 
enemies said-'spawning.' At each 
stage of the process, opposition grew. 
Reaction ranged from the relatively 
mild official response of the English 
department ("The response of the 
English department to the projected 
Literature · Major is 
difficult 
summarize.") to the less restrained 
petitions against the Major circulated 
by 
individual faculty 
members 
("Disturbing, in any case, is the arid 
scientism and quest for the absolute 
that imbues the concerns of those who 
would [seek to) isolate the central fact 
of 'literature.'"). Finally, at a Yale 
College faculty meeting in the spring 
of 1973, the proposed major was 
approved, but only after a heated 
debate 
that caused some of the 
physicists and 
e ... onomists in 
audience to shake their heads over the 
strange passions animating their 
colleagues in the humanities. 

The program quickly attracted large 
numbers of students; by its third year 
of existence, its 65 majors constituted 
one of the larger humanities majors in 
Yale College. The popularity of the 
program resulted not only from its 
notoriety, which, in any case, was soon 
toned down. More important in the 
major's early 
success were two 
challenging new required courses that 
were soon recognized as among the 
best, 
most rigorous, 
College: Literature Y, a survey of 
literary 
theory 
taught by Peter 
Demetz, and Literature Z, a course in 
close attention to texts that dramatized 
new rhetorical strategies of reading 
taught by Paul de Man and Geoffrey 
Hartmann. Other well known critics 
taught in the major, such as Peter 
Brooks (one of its original framers) and 
J. Hillis Miller, both of whom would 
later become directors of the major. 

The program was being talked about at 
other universities, for the crisis that 
gave it birth was not confined to New 
Haven; there was a small piece in The 
New York Times, and an article in 
College English. 
Request s 
for 
information on what was happening at 
Yale poured in; programs modelled on 
the Literature Major came into being 
places as remote as Murdoch 
University in Perth, Australia. As the 
Major became an institution in the 
college, 
its 
famous 
letters 
were 
translated into numbers: 
Lit. 
X 
became Lit.120, Lit. Y became Lit. 
300, Lit. Z became Lit. 130. In 1979 
the program was enriched by the 
addition of an academically 
de-
manding new track that permitted Yale 
students for the first time to do 
undergraduate work in Comparative 
Literature. 

The phenomenon of the Literature 
Major coincided with a different but 
related phenomenon, 
the growing 
influence of Jacques Derrida (who 
spent part of his time teaching at Yale), 
Paul de Man, Harold Bloom, Geoffrey 
Hartmann, and J . H illis Miller. Each 
of these men had, as an individual 
scholar, played an important role in 
shaping the new direction literary 
study was taking; but during the 
seventies 
they 
became collectively 
known as the Yale School 
of 
Deconstructionists, identified in the 
public mind with the increasing 
tendency (not confined to Yale, but 
most powerfully at work here) to 
breach traditional borders between 
literature, criticism, and philosophy so 
as to forge a new kind of study. 

Demanding as it was, this new way of 
reading became popular. Soon terms 
such as the 'metaphysics of presence,' 
'aporia,' and of course, the verb 'to 
deconstruct,' were being pronounced 
at cocktail parties. Trivialization of 
this kind was far from the complexities 
and rigor of the work de Man and 
others were actually doing. But this 
fame caught at least some of the 
excitement 
students 
exper-
iencing. And since virtually all the 
well-known theorists at Yale were 
associated in one way or another with 
the Literature major, the program took 
on a kind of glamour. It looked as ifthe 
golden age was about to dawn. 

Then in 1983 not just Yale, but the 
international literary community 
suffered a loss when Paul de Man, a 
great teacher and intellectual presence 
as well as theorist, died. In the next few 
years 
Hillis 
Miller and Jacques 
Derrida left to go elsewhere. To the 
world outside Yale, especially that part 
of it familiar with Yale's strength in 
literary studies only through 
phrase-mongering of the popular press 
(or some of the only slightly less banal 
accounts published 
by university 
presses), it appeared that the end had 
come. At some other universities, 
there was not a little relief that Yale's 
hegemony in literary studies seemed to 
have been 
broken. 

When 
I was 
mulling over an offer to return to Yale 
last year, several people at such places 
advised me not to go back to New 
Haven, for, I was told confidently, it 
was a 'wasteland' and the Yale literary 
community was 'devastated.' 

But the truth is that Yale has always 
been fortunate in having great literary 
scholars; there have been other 'Yale 
Schools.' 
New Criticism 
dominated 
studies in the 
fifties, some of its most powerful 
representatives, such as Cleanth 
Brooks and William Wimsatt, were 
Yale professors, and grumbling could



**Title: Yale's Literary Scene**
**Author: Michael Holquist**
**Page number(s): 46-47**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
...be heard in other places in those days. 
too, about 'Yale hegemony.' An event 
that helped pave the way for current 
interest in theory was the publication 
in 1949 of Theory of Literature, co-
authored by Rene Wellek, founder of 
the Comparative Literature Depart· 
ment at Yale. 

The list of great scholars who have 
made Yale synonym.ous with the best 
work being done in literary study could 
easily be extended. But to do so would 
obscure a no less important fact about 
rlw history of literary study at this 
university: such giants always have 
lwcn only the most visible indices of a 
larger community of literary scholars 
that ha\'e learned from their better 
knm' n colleai{UeS, but who have also 
made 
the 
achie,·ement 
of those 
colleagues 
possible. 

The 
most 
remarkable 
thtrlg about 
study 
of 
litt·nuure at Yale has not been the 
number of 'schools' the vniversitv has 
produced from time to time, bu.t the 
consistently high quality of work 
produced at all times by large numbers 
of the senior facultv. The tradition of 
brilfl,tnce. energy, ·capacity for sheer 
hard 
work, 
and 
commitment 
10 
leaching among the junior faculty is 
unbroken, 
particulady 
in 
Literature M ajor, where tht· young 
haH· had an unusually prominent rok 
to play 

Kno" in~ this, -.vhen 
I had tht• 
opportunity to retur·n to direct the 
Literature ~Iajor. it "as not difficult to 
remain 
unmo,·ed 
by 
gloomy 
asst•ssments of Yale made by friends at 
otlwr place~. After all. the 120 junior 
and senior class 
major~ curH·ntlv 
t•tuollt·d represent not o nly an all-time 
high in our enrollment. but some of the 
bt•st •audents on campus as wt'll: last 
n·ar half of the majors graduating did 
... o with distinction; four of the ten 
:\tellon Fellowships awarded to Yale 
undergraduates last year went 
to 
"tudem" in the Literature :\lajor: two 
otht·r-. \\t'rc awarded a :\lar"hall and a 
Clare- ~ldlon Fellowship for -.tudy in 
England. 

Tht·re are probkm'>. of course. if 
only becauc;c the Literature l\1ajor has 
been so closely involved over the years 
with literary theory, and literary 
theory itself is presently in a state of 
crisis. The basic structure of the 
Major, except for the addition of the 
Comparative Literature track, has 
gone relatively unchanged since 1973. 
And so a group of scholars is being 
called together to examine the major 
from top to bottom, and a list of 
recommendations will be given to the 
Governing Board that administers it 
next spring. Born in one kind of the 
crisis in the seventies, the Major is 
rethinking itself in the face of another 
crisis as it heads into the nineties. 
What changes will be made cannot at 
this point be known. One thing seems 
certain: at a time when opposing 
versions of literary study are being 
debated with the greatest urgency, the 
M ajor's unique ability to provide a 
space in which ideas can usefully 
contend with each other becomes ever 
more necessary. 

I recently had occasion to look once 
again at that Yale Daily News article I 
unearthed on the dim afternoon in 
December, 1975. It set me once again 
to wondering, this time about : the 
relation of the events that article 
described to the Major as it now exists. 
The student who wrote the article was 
obviously a fan of the major she was 
describing: the account bristles with 
facts, all conveyed with a kind of 
breathless enthusiasm. It is clear in 
retrospect that rr.any of the facts were 
garbled, and the breathlessness is now 
inappropriate 
for 
a 
program as 
mature as the Literature Major has 
become. But there is a faith in the 
future, running throughout that article 
from the past, that has been more than 
j ustified in the present, a useful lesson 
as we once again look to a new future 
for the Major . 

• 
Micluhal Holquist rs the Director of the 
Literature Major.


**Title: Yale Repertory Theatre's 7th Annual Festival of New American Plays**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 46**

Winteriest I • 
Yale Repertory Theatre's 
7th Annual Festival of 
New American Plays 
The Cemetery Club 
by Ivan Menchell 
January 13 February 7 
A tender comedy of life. love and perpetual care! 

The Memento 
by Wakako Yamauchi 
January 15 February 7 
An intrigUing mystery of pass ron and memory! 

Apocalyptic Butterflies 
by Wendy Macleod 
January 15 
February 3 
An unexpected contemporary Chflstmas story' 

Exact Change 
by Oav d Epste•r 
January 16 February 7 
A comrc and d1sturbmg portrart of the Vretnam generatron! 

"Theatre and Design·· 
Tht. mllut•n, c of v s ra art and archrtec!ure on desrgn for the Theatre. 
Saturday Janu.uv 17 5 p m at The Rep 

"Theatre and Music" 
A drscuss.on of new developments rn Musrc Theatre. Saturday. January 24 
11 a m at The Rep 

"Theatre and Performance" 
Actors d .. russ nq I herr prvotal role rn the drvelopment of a new play 
Saturcl.w J,muar~ 31 11 a m. at The Rep 

"Theatre and Everything Else" 
Tilt: 1111 1t· 1tH ,h 
Tl~> 'PIX ng and matchmg of parntrng n1usrc. poetrv 
ant1ll.1nre m the t1evelopment of new ~\or:-s lor the stage Saturday February 
1 5o m 11 The Rep 

The Discovery Pass 
The entire Fest. val expenence for only $44! Includes admrssrons to all 
plays. semrnars. playr~>.ad1ngs and the reception' 
To order the Discovery Pass or s.ngle tickets Call (203) 432-1234 or 
CHARGIT (800) 223-0120 24 Hours 
Corner of York and Chapel 
Box 1903A New Haven, CT 06520 
46 T he New Journai/De<t>mlxr 6. !985 



Temp-ta: tion. n. Located at 
1 042 Chapel Street, New Haven. 
Featuring: 
TRUFFLES, BON SONS, LIQUEUR CORDIALS 
NUTS, POPCORN, ICE CREAM, TOPPINGS 
(I JELLY BEANS, and eveything chocolate. 
dU/'Jt;;; I 
Custom Confection Gift Beekete 
our Specialty 
a/nola 
1 042 CIIAPt l 
ST 
N E W HAllEN 
1 1 1 . o o o 6 
Open 7 days a week 10:30-7 
Except Thursday 10:30-8, Sunday Hl


COMPLETE 
OFFICE PRODUCTS 
Computer Supplies • Business Interiors 
Cards • Gifts • Legal Supplies 
1 0°/o off with Student I. D. 
Copying Services 
Visit our new Budget Furniture Showroom 
files • chair!' • desks • work stations 
534 State Street 
New Haven, CT 
Mon.-Fri. 8-5 
789-1414 

"If you are what you eat, 
then we hope you eat at Claire's" 
1000 Chapel Streeet at College 562-3888 
Open every day from 8 a.m. 'til 10 p.m. (11 p.m. on weekends) 
The New Journal/December 5, 1986 47


UPS & 
FEDERAL 
EXPRESS 
NEAR YALE!!! 
SHIP THROUGH US 
BOX STOP 
CHEAP QUICK CONVENIENT 1 ' 
PARCEL MAILING SERVICE 
WE CAN BOX AND SIDP YOUR HOLIDAY 
GIFTS OR YOUR PERSONAL ITEMS 
THROUGH UPS OR PARCEL POST 
GIFT BOXES AND GIFf WRAPPING SERVICE AVAILABLE 
ALL AROUND THE CORNER FROM YALE 
57 WHALLEY A VENUE, NEW HAVEN 562-0481 

