Publication date: November 11, 1975
Volume: 9
Issue number: 2


**MASTHEAD:**
- None present


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**


**Title: The Libertarian Candidate**
**Author: Nancy Kempner Davis**
**Page number(s): 1, 5**

• 
by Nancy Kempner Davis 
The National Libertarian Party is a 
new politicaJ party in an old tradition. 
Libertarians, sometimes called Anarcho-
Capitalists or Objectivists, believe that 
unobstructed free market capitalism will 
solve America's ills. The party was 
fonned in J 97 I and presently numbers 
approximately five thousand members. 
This year. for the fli'St time, they are 
running a Libertarian candidate for 
President. His name is Rogtt MacBride, 
and he expects to win at least a million 
votes. The size of Mr. MacBride's party 
does not worry him because anarchy is 
the purest form of Libertarianism, and 
Libertarians are not apt to join anything. 


Many libertarians do not consider 
Roger MacBride a Libertarian at all. 
They point out that he wants a salaried 
state job wh~n some Libertarians feel 
that all civil service should be 
voluntary. Libertarians disagree with 
each other as much as they disagree 
with the American government. They 
view America as both an Imperialist and 
a Welfare state. Most would be hard put 
to say which is worse. 


At the core of Libertarian philosophy 
is the concept that every individual has 
an absolute moral right to his own 
body . .. Self Ownership" means that no 
man or group may trespass upon 
another's personal freedom . To make 
this work, man's right to the ownership 
and disposition of any goods he earns, 
fmds, or creates must be inviolable. 
TbeoreticaJJy all property is private and 
may be exchanged at will. 


Fragmentation begins with the ques-
tions of implication and implementation. 
At the University of Chicago, weU-
known Libertarian economists such as 
Milton Friedman and the late Henry 
Simon created an economic ideology of 
Libertarianism. Some ideas of .. The 
Chicago School" evoke controvttsy 
even within the party. They advocate-
among other things-voluntary educa-
tion, which would involve closing the 
public school system because education 
is a personal, familial responsibility; 
dismantling the court system ahd 
substitution of private arbitration com-
panies; and legalization of the so-called 
" victimless" crimes. 


lbe Chicago School supports the 
foUowing arguments in conjunction with 
most Libertarians: 
Abolish all Governnumt Regulatory 
Agencies 
The consumer alone must protect 
himself, because the Government has no 
business intervening in his choice of 
what to buy or how to live. Libertarians 
reason that a company which poUutes in 
great quantity will eventually drive its 
workers away. It will prefer to clean up 
rather than close down. 


. This policy includes severe limitation 
or dissolution of the Federal Reserve 
Board, which places artificial restric-
tions on the flow of money, and thus 
obstructs the free market. 


Libertarians object to more than the 
goals of the Regulatory Agencies. They 
see them as hotbeds of bure&Jcratic 
waste. Milton Friedman has said that 
bureaucracy self-perpetuates endless} y, 
and that it is a parasite on the American 
public. 

-------------------------------------· . ---------
I'm running TofPresident of the 
United States. 
People say only two things 
are inevitabl~. 
Death and taxes. 
They're wrong. 
___________________ ,__ .. ______ ,_ ............ _______ ,. _______ ,. ____________ _ 


Throw Welfare out with its siblings 
Social Security, Public Housing, and 
Redevelop1111!nt 
The protective government is 1be 
intrusive government. Welfare, as it 
works today. discourages individual 
effort. Friedman does say that if the 
poor must have help, cut out the 
program and just give them the money 
directly. He postulates a negative 
income tax where everyone who earned 
below a certain sum would receive a flat 
subsidy. Republicans froth at the mouth 
when they hear this. 


Public housing and Redevelopment 
are a mess. Remember the Model Cities 
Program fiasco in the 60's? Let 
someone tum a buck renovating the 
inner city. Personal economic incentive 
is the only thing that will keep it 
n::novated. 


Social Security forces people to take 
out Government retirement insurance. In 
essence, the Govecnment forces its 
taxpayers to loan it money ar a 
non-competitively low interest rate. Jf 
people wish to plan ahead, private 
companies have shown they can give a 
better deal. 


Protect business from government 
intervention: No more Minimum Wage. 
Tarrif and Trade Quotas, Price Sup-
ports, or Licensing 
When will people learn that busi-
nesses will only hire whom they need? 
The whole economy is hurt when 
Businesses can't afford to increase 
production by hiring more people. 


Abolition of tarrifs means trade with 
anyone of any ideology who wants 
American products. Conservatives rage 
and Big Business is even less happy. 
Trade quotas function like polite 
Government contracts to protect Wash-
ington's favorites. 


There go Fann Subsidies and Russian 
wheat deals. Now anyone who plans to 
earn a living must produce in free 
market competition. 1be idea is that the 
small fanne!" or individualist gets 
an economic chance. 


The question of Licensing is not 
II 
no . ..9-
popular. If you need a heart surgeon, 
his only medical qualification will be 
his reputation. Friedman argues that this 
is already ~ 
case since patients shop 
arm~nd for medical care anyway. Once 
more the Government interferes by 
limiting competition. 


Strict Non-lnterventkmists interna-
tionally 
An America which does not .. advise" 
other nations won't need to spend 
billions a year .on defense. Simplify our 
defense to a modem equivalent of the 
militia system; just enough nuclear 
warheads to discourage others from 
aggression. 


There are three questions which most 
Libertarians agree that the Chicag~ 
School has not solved. 


If the court system should be 
abolished, civil cases might well be 
tried, as many are now, in private 
arbitration companies whose decisions 
both parties agree to respect. What 
happens to criminal cases? A public 
court, whether or not it used a privately 
owned, profit-making jail, is necessary, 
because any smart murderer would slcip 
town while his lawyers decide what 
private arbitration company to favor. 


Close the public schools, sell their 
buildings, and the universal right to 
social and economic mobility has been 
severely limited. In today's increasingly 
lee~ 
and special~ society, 
most management and professionals 
hold university diplomas. If your father 
did not make enough to send you 
through six years of elementary school, 
the chances are great that you will not 
make much more than he. 


Abolish victimless crime in the name 
of oersonal freedom and individual 
responsibility, and a shady area of 
indirect or inadvertant victimization 
appears. If man has the right to suicide 
and self-mutiliation, what happens when 
the breadwinner of a family chops off 
his hand so that he cannot work? May 
his family sue him for breach of 
contract? 


Roger Mac~ride says he would avoid 
these problems by approaching them , ~ 
he would any other question of policy, 
with three points in mind. How can 
these changes be made with minimum 
political and economic disruption? Is 
this practicable in America today? Do 
these matters come under Presidential 
jurisdiction? 


Indeed, it is the very practicality of 
his ideology which rubs other Liber-
tarians the wrong way. 1be Anarcho-
Capitalists who insist government 
should be run on a pt.aely voluntary 
basis feel that If Mr. MacBride retains a 
police fon:e, he· interferes with their 
lives. 


The object of all this dissent is a 
stocky, 46-year-old man with a round 
red face, round glasses, and an upturned 
nose-. Owner/Producer of the Little 
House on the Prairie tele;,ision series, 
he spends up to 75% of his time 
campaigning. This is not his first shot at 
public office, so he knows the political 
ropes weU enough to realize that the 
only way be can familiarize himself 
with the American public is through 
grass roots, day by day. door to door 
stumping, and massive mail solicitation. 


Roger MacBride attended Princeton 
and Harvard Law School. He published 
both dissertations and won a Fulbright 
(continued on page 5) 



**Title: The New Journal/November 11, 1975**
**Author: Various**
**Page number(s): 2**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
page 2 
The New Journal/November I I, 1975 
lheNewJournal -------------cor.nnaent--------------------~ 
Volume nine, number two 
Mary Caroline Panzer 
Editor-in-Chief 
Jonathan M. Winer 
Managing Editor 
Robert Leichty 
Executive Editor 
Marla Schay 
Desi~:ner 
Ross Andelrnan 
Pamela Steele 
Photography Editors 
Corby Seth Kummer 
Dennis Shasha 
Associate Editors 
Elizabeth Perle 
Production editor 
Staff: Susan Halpern, Jacob Epstein, 
Julia Preston, Bruce Murray, 
Ritchie, Rebecca McCormick, W. Wil-
der Knight, Aaron Betsky, Barbara 
Cohen, Sarai Ribicoff, Joshua Winer. 
Contributing Editors: Ron Roel, Stuart 
Rohrer, Steven R. Weisman, Daniel 
Yergin, Dayid Sleeper 
The New Journal is published by the 
New Journal at Yale, Inc., typesetting 
by the Yale Graduate Professional, 
printed at Chronicle Printing Co., North 
Haven, Cf. Distributed free to the Yale 
Community. for all others, subscription 
rate $10 per year. Copyright@by the 
New Journal at Yale, Inc., a non profit 
organization. Letters and unsolicited 
manuscripts welcome. 3432 Yale Sta-
tion, New Haven Cf 06520. Phone: 
436-0015 or 432-0305. 
''Buddy, can you spare a 
dime?" 
"Hey ... Everybody gather 'round. I 
wanna tell ya somethin'! No, not just 
you two. C'mon, everybody. Yeah ... 
That's right. 
" I just wanna know if any of you 
nice folks could help Brother John out 
with some spare change." That's 
Brother John. He has been around for 
such a long time that giving him money 
has become a Yale tradition. Everyone 
has Brother John stories to tell. l've 
heard rumors that Brother John uses the 
money he makes to go to Florida every 
winter, that he's the leader of the 
bicycle theft ring of New Haven, and 
that he's offered to make change for a 
$ 10 bill in order to get a quarter. 
l saw Brother John and he asked for 
some change. I showed him that 1 had 
only a nickel. Brother John explained 
that he doesn't take nickels on 
principle-"lf you only have a nickel 
you better keep it yourself. I'm not that 
desperate." Then he asked if I had any 
spare bills. Before I knew what 
happened I had put a dollar in his hand. 
We sat down to do the interview right 
there in front cf Pierson by the light of 
the streetlamp. 
Q. What's you real name and where 
do you live? 
A . "My name is Kenneth Jones. I've 
Jived in a room at I 142 Chapel St. for 6 
months.,. Brother John moves fre-
quently because of " landlord hassles." 
He was born and raised in New Haven 
and says that he has never been out of 
the city in his life. He is 31 years old. 
Q. How long have you been asking 
students for money? 
A . "Oh ... many a year." Later on. 
he said he thought he'd been pan-
handling for five years. He's probably 
worked longer, though. One professor 
said she came to Yale 7 years ago and 
Brother John was going strong then. 
Q. Where do you panhandle? 
A. "Oh ... I go everywhere. Broad-
way is a good spot. But those colored 
guys who sell that Black Muslim paper 
and ask for donations take business 
away from me. " In the mornings 
Brother John sits near Berkeley College 
and CCL to catch students as they are 
walking to their classes. Later. he goes 
to the Chapel Square Mall area.


Evenings he sits in front of Pierson 
College, because ''that's where the 
prettiest girls walk." 
Q. Who do you panhandle from? 
A. "Oh, everybody." He asks New 
Haven residents as well as Yalies but he 
..gets most money from Yalies." He 
said that he asks boys more often than 
girls because he's afraid he might scare 
the girls. "The old freshmen. you 
know, the ones that come back every 
year give me more money than the new 
freshmen. The new freshmen don •t 
know me yet." 
Q. How much money do you make 
and what do you do with it? 
A. Brother John chuckled. " I guess 1 
make about $10 every couple of 
hours. " Once he mentioned that he 
made $30 a day. Later on, though, he 
showed me his wallet. He had collected 
$ 18 in 4 hours that evening. He said 
that weeknights like this are usually 
slow· On weekends he sees more 
Yalies. He spends his money on food 
and liquor. 
Q. Where do you eat? 
A. " I only eat one meal a day-at 
midnight." Each night, during the week 
Brother John has a salad and a slice of 
pizza at Mama's Pizza. He drinks about 
$25 worth of beer and liquor each day. 
He celebrates the weekends by eating 
sausage and pepper subs at Broadway 
Pizza and drinking at Rudy's. He said 
that sometimes he doesn't have enough 
money to eat so he goes to bed on an 
empty stomach-only full of liquor that 
is. 
Q. Do you have any other sources of 
income? 
A. "I get $25 a week from welfare 
for my rent. From unemployment, I get 
$98 every 2 weeks." Brother John has 
held many odd jobs ever since he quit 
school in the tenth grade. Last year he 
worked in a pillow factory for 9 
months. "I quit because the boss got on 
my nerves " Brother John says that 
he'd rather work than panhandle. He is 
ashamed to ask people for money but 
many jobs just · 'don"t pay enough 
money " This September he got a job 
as a utility man at Southern Connecticut 
State College but it only lasted one da)' 
··My finger got infected the first day 
and I forgnt to call in about it, .. he 
explained. Brother John i~ now looking 
for a job and as soon as he find' one 
he'Jl st0p panhandling. 
If Brother John can't find a JOb 
soon. he says he may move to Ne~ 
York. "But without me who would 
make kids happy? I love all Yalies. I 
thinlc thPv ~re all nice oeoole and I like 
talking with them." Even if Brother 
John goes to New York for the rest of 
his life, he says he wants to return to be 
buried in the Grove Street cemetary. 
"I'll want Yalies to come to my grave 
and drop spare change on it." 


**Title: Just what this country needs-more answers**
**Author: Rochelle Sharpe**

Just what this country needs-
more answers 
''What this country needs is a 
good socialist youth movement" pro-
claimed posters announcing a confer-
ence to be held at Harvard University's 
Science Center sponsored by the 
Democratic Socialist Organizing Com-
mittee. We were ready to learn about 
this country's socialist youth movement, 
but we found no one answering the 
description. 
Jumble and confusion dommated the 
scene of regtstration in the lobby. To 
register, one wrote one's name, address 
and degree of interest in socialism on a 
file card. We seemed to be the only 
ones registering, although lots of people 
stood nearby. 
Once we had sorted out the fringe 
elements in the lobby- the women 
peddling feminist newspapers, the "Free 
the Prisoners of the Shah" table, and 
the people campaigning for Fred 
Harris--we found three main socialist 
movements represented. 
One, the Democratic Socialist Organ-
izing Committee (DSOC). sponsored the 
conference. This national organization 
works "for full equality for all 
Americans, a goal which can only be 
realized if the social structure and the 
economy are democratized along with 
the political system." DSOC deals with 
the existing American political system 
to change it, especially by campaigning 
in elections for socialists or candidates 
sympathetic to socialism. Members of 
DSOC who spoke at the conference 
that week included the organization's 
chairman Michael Harrington (author of 
The Other America and The Accidental 
Century), and Dorris Bunte, Massachu-
setts' state representative from Boston. 
The DSOC invited the New American 
Movement to represent itself at the 
conference. Its newspaper explains, 
.. NAM exists to help organize a 
a movemt!nt for democratic socialism in 
the United States. At this point in 
-history, the socialist movement is not 
best served by individual acts of 
revolutionary violence, but by the 
quieter heroism of local organizing.· • 
Members spoke from the NAM view-
point at the workshops, and kept a 
registration table at the lobby. 
Last, but loudest, were members of 
the Sparticist Youth League, who 
describes themselves as "the youth 
section of the Sparticist League, a 
revolutionary organization which inter-
venes in social struggles armed with a 
workmg class program, based on the 
politics of Marx, Lenin, and Trotsky.·· 
They seemed to have come as self-
appointed opposition to the other 
soctaliM groups. It was not clear if they 
had been invited to distribute their 
literature at the conference, but during 
the cour":>e of the workshops it became 
obvious that they practiced strategies of 
infiltration and takeover of discussion 
groups. 
The clearest explanation we heard of 
t~e relations among the: three organiza-
t10ns came trum a member of NAM, 
who said, "No lefust group likes to 
think there is another group farther to 
the left. But, if you thmk in terms of a 
balance between immediate social issues 
(cominued on page 6) 


**Title: contents**

contents----------------------
I The New Political Party's Candidate 
Nancy Kempner Davis 
Meet Roger Macbride, the conservative who wants to break all the rules 
2 comment: dimes, socialists, photographers, audiences, music, nickles 
3 Portfolio: Writers from Yale 
Poetry by Susan Harris, prose by Claire Pettengill 
We the editors believe that much quality writing by Yale authors never appears in 
a Yale collection. The introduction of another /uerary publicaJion should help bring 
this matuial 10 light. Hence, Portfolho. We are accepting submissions for an 
expanded Thanksgiving 1ssue at 665 Berkley college. 
8 Any Woman Can Have an Abortion 
. But do we need to feel like bad girls if we do? 
Leigh Haffre) 
Daniel Kinney 
Rosemary Bray 
With this issue The New Journal returns 10 i1s orginalformm ru a biweekl) maga-
:me. You will hear from us often and "e want to hear from you. Frequem 
appearance lends itself to a forum for discussion and commem. Send your literate. 
opinionated, uppity essa.•;s to Tile New Journal. 3432 Yale Station, New Ha\·en CT. 
Deadli~ for the next issue is November 20, 1975. 





--- Page 3 ---

The New Journal/November II, 1975 
portfolio 
Pastoral 
As indistinguishable as 
the sky from the lake 
when the rain turns the ·landscape monotone 
am I from you 
and the fog from our private dreams 
emptying into the cool mirror of yesterday. 
Here, 
a pine branch breaks this dull abstraction 
• 
and you reclaim your voice as your own 
and 1 mine, 
and we sit listening 
to the cacoons nestled 
in the knodes of the trees 
spinning their grey threads 
into tbe bright wings of a butterfly 
again. 
Susan Harris 
He would expect her to make love. It exhaustion. 
wasn't fair, the darkness like quicksand 
Then he moved away not insisting, 
and she giving herself up to it without a his ass and back greeting her with a 
struggle. With the trucks droning sleep 
hardness that knotted her stomach. And 
songs as they moved inside outside her 
her eyes wide open now staring 
brain like bees. And the bed kissing her miserably. Thoughts marching in iron 
cheeks breasts stomach knees feet 
patterns. 
gently. 
She moving, so she wouldn't touch 
He was coming now, the room 
him, because she felt no understanding 
widening to receive him breathless from or compassion in his posture, just 
the night.air. Quiet rustlings and clump fatalism, ·like a stone, he moving 
* clump shoes off then rockings as he 
restlessly as he spoke of'her waning 
knelt near her and moved back and forth passion. It wasn't him he thought but 
and up and down to wake her. Then it 
her own confusion and childishness. His 
was useless; her eyes blinked open and 
words burned her as she lay with 
her mouth smiled at his shape in the 
gleaming eyes and fear and anger rising 
dim greyness above her. And she 
thick in her throat. 
pressed her face to the tau~ wa.-m 
Her hands then reaching out caressing 
stomach longing to sink through the soft. his back, her mouth soft on his neck and 
skin to nothing. 
shoulders. Pressing herself against him, 
Then arms around her shoulders, 
trying to melt his rigidity, trying to 
pressing her to his chest, his body hard hide. 
and alive, hers amoeba-like, balanced 
But he knew. And he tensed with 
between acquiescence to him or sleep. 
surprise, her soothing words unavailing. 
And he above waiting for her to feel 
Sitting up abruptly as if attacked, 
him feel her body waken her mind to 
reaching to tum on the lamp near his 
warm up speed up slowly then faster 
head, he stared at her hard and pale in 
and faster. Until exhausted he too could the sudden light. 
-sleep. 
His face clean and hard against the 
It wasn't fair. Her mind following his twisting within, as she spoke, calmly. 
cobweb fingers down her back. Detach- the words. The glare burned· her. She 
ing her though~ from her body until 
was sorry then and stunned, but she had 
dread and love moved her to hug him 
wanted this to see the knowledge of her 
close and whisper her reluctance and 
·guilt and shame intensified in his eyes. 
•J 
Claire Pettengill 
Nice, 76 Degrees, Clear 
Is what it will read in the Times tomorrow. 
This, the underside of the palm leaf 
where a shadow 
circumscribes the crowd along the road 
with certainty. 
It is all very important 
what we do here. 
It is all very clear. 
It is printed all over our shirts 
and our smiles, 
our sunglasses 
behind which the eye masquerades 
in optimal view of the distant world. 
There is no danger of engagement. 
The light reveals only 
itself, on the thousands of exposures today, 
as always, 
when the film is washed 
the plant in the garden will have already borne its fruit 
and the gargoyles will have a new family to entertain. 
It is just common knowledge. 
The terrazzo man pissing eternally 
into the pool where we 
watch ourselves laugh. 
' . 
Susan Harris 
Learn the answers to .~ 
respect for self and others 
read "Book One" 
Dianetics, the Modem Science 
ot· Mental Health 
by L~Ron Hubbard 
Diane tics 
109 Church St. 
New Haven, CT. 
Suite 505 
Hours: Mon-Fri. 1Q-10 pm 
Sat. 1~6 pm 
For nwre i'nfo call 787-4816 
Copyright 1975 by L. Ron Hubbard. 
So says Sam Aaron of New 
York'S Sherry-l.ehrMIYI, Inc.-
and otherS agree with him. Craig 
Oaibome long time food and 
beverage editor of the New York 
Times drinks La Vleflle Ferme as 
his daily wine. Terry Roberds on 
his WQXR wine Show singled It out 
as the best red wine 1o buy for 
everyday use. 
The quality comes from the 
grape. Unlike many other Co1es du 
Rhones, La Vleflle Ferme uses a 
high ratio of Petit. Syrah rather 
than the more COl I I I 1011 Gre"lBChe 
of the area. The actvnage of USing 
. superior grapes IS afT1lllfled by the 
excellart vinlflcatlon of Pf'OP'Ietor 
Jean Pierre Perrin W10 beftews It 
is possible 1o make better than 
average quality at affordable 
prices. 
. 
page 3 
we agree and hope ~ 
will 
consider this remarkable wine In · 
these days of so.-tng wine CXJSts. 
$3.05 fifth 
$31.21 C8l8 
· AT YOUR SERVlCB WITH FREE DELIVERY 
~~·~g~ 
OH HAND AND CHILLBD... 
: 
A COMPLETE sBLBcnQ."f OP LIQUOR. WINE 6 BD& 
BOI'H UIPORTED AND DOMESTIC.. 


**Dyna~nite**
**Author: Arnold W. Gottfried**
**Page number(s): 4**

Extract ARTICLE CONTENT:
"An exciting, bitterly anti-war arid very funny 
comic opera for actors." 
Dyna~nite 
Tonite! 
By Arnold W 
~~··-=-··· 
Music by William Bolcom 
n Gottfried 
Directed by Alvin Epstein and Walt jones 
"Throbbing, ritualistic intensity . .. 
a haunting Don Juan" 
Mel Gussow, The New York Times 


**Don Juan**
**Author: Kenneth Cavander**

Don Juan 
a version of Moliere's play 
by Kenneth Cavander 
direCted by Robert Brustein 
music and sound by Richard Peaslee 
yale repertory theatre 
Corner of York and Chapel Streets 
For information call 436-1 600 
Th~ N~w Joumai/November II. 1975 


**Death and Taxes**
**Author: Nancy Kempner Davis**
**Page number(s): 5**

Th~ New Journal/November II , 1975 
Death and Taxes 
(continu~d from page I ) 
Scholarship His first job was with 
White & Chase, a large, co~ative 
New Y ark law ftnn. In 1960, Mr. 
MacBride moved to Halifax, Vermont, 
where he was elected to the State 
Legislature. During this period he ran in 
the Republican Gubnatorial Primary, 
but received only a quarter ot the vote. 
In 1972, a four-year resident of 
Charlottesville, Virginia, he was chosen 
Presidential Elector. At the convention 
he cast his ballot for John Hospers and 
Tonie Narhan, Libertarian candidates for 
President. This so infuriated the other 
Virginians that some of them will not 
speak to him today. 

Anarchists and libertarians are opti-
mists in the sense that they count on 
personal generosity to pad the free 
market system. Institutionalized charity 
in the fonn of Welfare, tax 
deductions, and government subsidies 
discourage individuals from public 
spirited donations . .. The nineteenth 
century was America's greatest time of 
charity, because the wealthy wanted to 
help. They weren't forced by their 
government, •• says Mr. MacBride. 

Some extreme Libertarians would like to 
see the government's costs paid only by 
donation. They point out that it would . 
quickly eliminate officious bureaucracy. 
.. We don't need a Post Office! The 
printe companies which delivered 2nd 
class· maiJ do it much quicker and more 
efficiently. So take it out of the 
Government's hands. We don't need 
public highways! The way things are 
now, people who never drive pay taxes 
for whose who do. If you want to use a 
road, pay for it on the spot. And you 
can bet the roads will be kept up. 
Competition will see to that." 

1be present staff of the National 
Libertarian headquarters in Washington 
numbers three. His own staff is not 
much larger. Roger MacBride compares 
himself to the fable of the tortoise and 
the hare. He says that he can't afford to 
run big, so he campaigns quietly over 
an extended period. There are repre-
sentatives of the Libertarian party in 
about 45 states. 

He feels his campaign has already 
been injured by Capitol Hill ... You 
know that ruling they made after 
Watergate about matching campaign 
donations? WeU, it only applies to the 
two major parties. That means we have 
to earn twice as much money as the Big 
Guns to have the same to spend. 

Roger MacBride's philosophical 
stance falls within the mainstream of the 
Chicago School though he is vehement-
ly opposed to a negative income tax. 
··That is still playing with people's 
lives. Taking money from the rich to 
specifically give to the poor is playing 
Robin Hood." Libertarians consider 
Robin Hood to be the greatest economic 
villain to hit the books since the Roman 
bread and circuses alternative to govern-
ment. 

He favors instead a simple graduate 
income tax with absolutely no loop-
holes. "Sure this means that Howard 
Hughes will pay 200 million dollars a 
year instead of two million, but even his 
net loss won't be that great. Without 
loopholes. there will no longer be an 
incentive for bad business. Hughes can 
stop pouring money down dty oil 
wells." 

Before Mr. MacBride can reduce taxes 
substantially he wants to pay the entire 
National Debt and gently remove most 
Federal bureaucracy. " But by the end 
of a four year term, we could have 
taxes. pretty damn low. One big factor, 
besides all that money we won't have to 
pour into Farm Aid and Defense and 
Welfare, will be the elimination of the 
Federal Reserve Board. •• 

.. This country doesn't need a state 
bank. 1llat was Alexander Hamilton's 
idea. He realized that he wasn't going 
to get economic support for his new 
government unless he controlled the 
cash flow. Jackson saw what a mess 
that had made, and he abolished the 
State Bank when he got into office. 
Paid the national debt too. His term was 
economically a lot more sound than ours 
is. •• 

He fervently favors the legalization of 
marijuana, even though he believes that 
a University of California at Berkeley 
professor has conclusively demonstrate 
that the drug causes irrepairable br:ain 
damage. People's lives are their own, 
and the Government, once again, has no 
right to tell them what to do. Nor 
sliOuJd the Govenment try to warn 
people about marijuana's dangers. The 
F.D.A . is a regulatory agency whose 
function can be taken over by the press. 
If a newspaper wants to sell copies, it is 
in their interest to inform. 

''Tile press has been a big help. Free 
advertising. They like independent 
thinkers. We make good copy." Nicolas 
von Hoffman, the Washington Post's 
resident maverick, calls Libertarians 
' 'the only people worth voting for." 

Dan Rather has also given Mr. 
MacBride good coverage; much better, 
surprisingly. than Mr. MacBride has 
received at the hands of the old line 
conservatives. William Buckley's Nat-
iotUJI Review consistantly ignores the 
Ubertarian party movement. Mr. 
MacBride contends it is because 
Buckley recognises that the Libertarian 
Party has aU the answer-s. 

''1be Republican party is dead. It's a 
huge decaying elephant. By 1980, it 
will no longer be a political force. 
That • s when Libertarianism saeps in. 
This country was made for a two party 
system. We will be the second party. 
Wallace isn't a threat because he 
doesn't have an original platform. 
We' ve got the ideas. Every forty years 
or so, a new political philosophy or 
independent thinker comes on the scene. 
Jackson, Roosevelt, we're the next!" 
Nancy Kempner Davis is a sophomore 
in Trumbull College. 


**Any Woman Can**
**Author: Rosemary Bray**

(continued from page 8) 
hear an explanation of the abortion 
proCedure. Then she must wait again for 
a physical and a session with a 
counselor. If she has decided to have 
the abol.tion, she is asked to return in 
the afternoon for a ''birth control 
lecture. " At this group session, women 
are helped to evaluate the effectiveness 
of different methods of birth control. 
After several hours, the abortion is 
performed. Aftt:-wards the patient waits 
in a "recovery room" for 30 minutes 
and then goes home. The clinic staff 
prefers that someone comes to meet the 
woman, husband, lover, parents or a 
friend. 

Women's Health Services is markedly 
different. 1be staff takes particular care 
to make women feel at ease, since many 
are young and apprehensive. There are 
plenty of magazines to read, and a pot 
of hot water surrounded by instant 
coffee, tea, cups, and cookies. One of 
the reasons for its relaxed atmosphere is 
that W .H.S. handles only 24 abortions 
per week, as opposed to at least double 
that number at Sterling. 

First, the woman is examined by a 
physician's associate. As soon as there 
are three or four women ready, they are 
gathered for a group information se:.sion 
that includes an explanation of the 
procedure. display of the instruments to 
be used and the lecture on birth control. 
This last is the most entertaining feature 
of the session, thanks to .. The Birth 
Control Cranky,'' a gadget similar to a 
player piano roll with pictures. The 
cranky and its accompanying narration 
by a staff member begins: .. There are all 
kinds of ways to show aff~on; some 
peoole hold hands, some people kiss, 
and some people make love. If you 
decide to make love, then you need to 
understand more about getting preg-
nant." The cranky goes on to dispel 
myths about pregnancy and examines 
various methods of birth control. 

After the session, blood is taken and 
other laboratory tests are run. The 
woman then gets a chance to speak with 
a counselor who answers any questions 
she might have. She then makes an 
appointment for the next day. When she 
arrives on the following day. the same 
woman who coonseled her is there to 
meet her. The staff member stays with 
her throughout the procedure and in the 
recovery room until she's ready to go 
home. Two weeks after the abortion, 
the woman comes in again for a 
follow-up examination. At that time, the 
patient is provided with a pr-eliminary 
supply of whatever birth control method 
she has decided to use. In the case of 
IUD's, they are inserted at this time. 

One of the women interviewed for 
this article said that the issue of abortion 
in New Haven was diiectJy related to 
the issue of health care in New Haven. 
Indeed, the issue of health care is being 
focussed on almost everywhere in the 
country. With this attention comes an 
increased willingness on the part of the 
consumer to question existing programs 
and create new ones when the old ones 
are found deficient. Despite varying 
ideologies, women in New Haven are 
being given a choice, and that is a 
hopeful sign. 
Rosemary Bray is a senior 
in Pierson College. 


**A parallax view of the west**
**Author: Helen Glazer**
**Page number(s): 6**

(continued from page 2) 
his photographs about a century ago. 
the 
gigantic aorms they 
an 
e u timate go of a fully 
Their images came out of the same 
portray. Both Jackson and Adams 
socialized state, DSOC is on one end 
landscape, but are wt.dely separa•-_.. 1·n 
ad 
eanmg most tow 
munediate issues, 
time and function. 
and the Sparticists are on the other 
the wilderness they depicted: Jackson 
directing all their energy toward revolu-
Jackson took his photographs on 
helped convince Congress to create the 
tion, and NAM is in the middle., 
assignment for the U.S. Geological 
first National Park at Yellowstone in 
Naturally, each group believes they 
Survey and for western railroad com-
1872, and Adams is a longtime member 
have achieved the correct balance of 
panies, so the owners of these western 
of the Sierra Club. Though an 
action on immediate issues and the final 
territories could see what they had. The outspoken conservationist, Adams never 
goal. 
beephotographic process had only recently 
shows the effect of man on the 
Michael Harrington, the main speaker 
n developed, so Jackson created 
environment. The inspiring natural 
at the conference, discussed the role of 
some of the earliest images of the 
wonders he photographs have probably 
the sudent in every movement for 
American West. Still, this exhibition 
not changed since Jackson's era. What 
socialism. "The saddest thing is when 
being held in an art gallery and not a 
really has changed is our attitude toward 
students try to pretend they are 
historical society, even though Jackson's photography. Photography need no 
workers," he said. " Workers often see 
primary intention was to make visuar 
longer be used as documentation, but as 
through those colonists, who come in 
records. Jackson often included Indians, a means of creating visual symbols and 
from the institutes of higher education." 
travelers, houses, and locomotives in 
images. The Yale Art Gallery directors 
He approached the subject of politics 
the landscape to relate the massive 
recognized the beauty of William Henry 
as a call to action ... If we have another 
mountains and vast expanses of "Big 
Jackson's documents and displayed 
fours years of the kind of misery that 
Sky Country" to human scale. Tiny 
them as works of art, adding a new 
this administration has inflicted on 
white lettering in the comer of each 
dimension to the way we view them. 
the black people, the poor people, the 
print identifies the scene, and often the 
President Ford recently replaced an oil 
chicano people-1 don't know where 
prints were molinted beneath the 
painting in the White House with an 
they're going to go.' The t976 election 
elaborate calligraphic heading of the 
Ansel Adams photograph. 
will make an enormous difference." To U.S. Geological Survey. 
Harrington and to the DSOC (but not in 
Adams was a pioneer photographer of ----------------
the opinion of the Spartacists) the 
a different sort than Jackson. An early 
political system even as it now exists 
advocate of the use of photography as a 
could g_enerate an improved political 
medium for artistic expression, his 
situation. " But," said Harrington, 
landscapes are abstract textural fonns, 
"suppose that in 1976 a liberal 
rendered in silver tones. Jackson was 
candidate fbr President wins. Suppose a 
obviously impressed by the grdlldeur of 
left-wing candidate wins. That's only 
the Western landscape, and beautifully 
the beginning. Capitalism will not go 
recorded it. Adams, by contrast, seemed 
away because there is a left-wing 
to want to translate these natural fonns 
president. Ford is the most doctrinaire, 
into universal symbols. Adams' images 
sectarian idealogue of the twentieth 
~ave a somber, timeless quality: the sky 
century, and WiUiam Simon the most 
IS often a peculiar dark tone impossible 
evil man in the American government." 
to associate with a particular time of 
These remarks brought delighted 
day, and the landscape is utterly 
~aughter and applause; this was what 
motionless and uninhabited. Only one 
everyone had come to hear. Much less 
ohotograph at Archetype contains an 
notice was accorded the sobering notion 
animate form-a miniscule horse grazing 
that, given the present government and 
in the distance. The photographs often 
the divisions in the socialist movement, 
depict enormous geological forms with 
as Harrington said, "None of us in this 
no reference to human scale. They look 
room will ever know if Socialism as 
strangely impersonal and unreal, despite 
conceived of ... will ever exist. That kind 
the inherent literalness of the photo-
of change doesn't come in a moment." 
graphic medium. 
Sandy Akerman '79 
C.B . Francis '79 
Though the two men had different 
goals, they shared certain similarities in 
approach. For instance, both photo-
graphers used cameras that make very 
large negatives, measuring up to 16 by 
20 or 20 by 24 inches, so that their 
photoJUSI)hs sturutingly reveal intricate 


**Sprocket holes: Audiences**
**Author:  [No author listed]**

The New Journal/November 11, 1975 
Sprocket holes: Audiences 
· You're engrossed in the climactic 
moments of a thriller, having escaped 
successfully enough to blot out most of 
the real world, when the jerk three seats 
down from you, who's with a group of 
six, each of whom has enjoyed the party 
before more than the movie they're at 
now, and who have been joking and 
giggling at all the worst times to be 
annoying but you've sublimated them 
for the most part till now, when this 
jerk says, "Oh I've seen 
this! She stabs him and then falls off the 
roof with the kid hanging on the fire 
escape!" Ten minutes later that is of 
course what happens on the screen, but 
it's no surprise to you. And the final 
grief is the admonition on the poster 
1"Please do not reveal the ending." 
Sigh. 

Until 1950 or so, nobody saw 
n;tovies alone. But even though televi-
sron bas changed our viewing habits, 
rums are still generally considered a 
group experience, a social phenomenon. 
We still " go to the movies." As with 
most such experiences, there is a unique 
interaction and behavior accomoany-
ing the event. And as with most human 
behaviour, a lot of what goes on at the 
movies in the audience is, well, screwy. 

Underlining everything is the notion 
that, in a movie audience, you are in a 
gropp but you are alone. If your 
attention is on tbe screen, a reaction 
from the audience beyond yourself is 
always unexpected, an extra dimension 
of the experience. The communication in 
a theater is directly between the screen 
and the individual viewer-any other 
communication is not overtly conscious, 
initially. (This assumes attention to the 
screen; dating couples function differ-
ently, and in some theaters you can't 
see the screen from the back row 
anyway.) The fact of the group reaction 
external to your own explains some 
obvious results: comedies are better in a 
crowded theater, sad or melodramatic 
movies are best in solitude, scary 
movies best in an alert crowd, etc. 

Laughter is contagious, so you laugh 
harder and more often with people 
laughing around you, while it only takes 
one schmuck giggling at the wrong time 
to destroy the lump in your throat. 

Specifically, everyone loves to cheer 
collectively in Casablanca, at the 
beginning of a beautiful friendship. On 
the other hand, a projectionist friend of 
mine once refused to continue a 
screening of A Streetcar Named Desire 
bec~':lse a bunc.h .creeps were laughing 
dens1vely at VIvien Leigh's break-
down as Blanche. 

Public audiences rarely complain, no 
matter what goes wrong. An extreme 
example is the following episode. The 
commercial projectionist union has a lot 
of old men in it. They tend to fall 
asleep. So I'm ·sitting in a moderately 
crowded theater, and the light on the 
screen begins to dim, flickering dim-
ming. I am aware that the arc rods in 
the projector need adjusting, and soon, 
or the screen will go black. It does. 
Nobody moves in the audience. Nobody 
moves in the projection booth. For five 
minutes. the crowd listens to the movie, 
in pitch darkness. The one hears the reel 
end, the film run out of the projector. 
stop. Now the theater is dark and silent. 
For a good ten minutes, nobody did 
nothing, except murmur quietly and 
shuffle their feet. My fascination with 
this phenomenon wearing off, I got up 
and fouDd the manager, who didn't 
seem t<?O surprised that the house was 
dark. But can you imagine that 
happening with a college audience? 

College audiences never hesistate to 
communicate information to the projec-
tionist, sometimes before the movie 
starts. 

College crowds can also make a bad 
movie a lot more fun, with a few choice 
comments at appropriate times often 
improving the script. Try out a boring 
porno movie with a horny college 
audience. It can be an education on 
several levels. 

Scary movies with a college bunch on 
the same wavelength can be great. At a 
crowded screening of Night of the Living 
Dead, a guy was sitting next to an 
attractive girl he didn't know. In a tense 
moment of the film, the girl suddenly 
grabbed the guy's ann. gripping it 
tightly for quite a while. After the film 
was over, I asked him if he liked it. 
"Are you kidding? I've got her phone 
number. and I'm staying for the next 
show.'' A group of people were sitting 
m two rows, and m another particularly 
tense scene, a guy reached over the 
back of the chair in front of him slowly 
touching the occupant's shoulde; The 
poor girl jumped about four feet in all 
directions, as did the people around her. 



**The New Journal/November II, 1975**
**Author: Anonymous**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
The New Journal/November II, 1975 
I've only scratched the swface; if 
movies are adventure, so are the 
audiences. Almost anything can happen. 
On New Year's Eve several years ago, I 
was at a friend's house in Dobbs Ferry, 
New York, and to kill time until Guy 
Lombardo croaked in from Times 
Square, we decided to go the the local 
movie house. Now Dobbs Ferry has the 
distinction of having been single<! out 
by Time magazine as one of the Ten 
Ugliest Towns in the United States. Its 
movie theater is appropriately dingy, 
and some of its inhabitants are 
correspondingly chaJ"J1ling. So Jaime 8nd 
I are watching the double bill, Fritz the 
Cat and Fanny Hill, and about halfway 
through Ms.Hill's soft-core moans and 
groans,(mind you it's only about 10:30), 
• some not-so-young weirdo in the middle 
of the theater stands up and starts to 
strip, shouting, " Happy goddamn New 
Year! Happy goddarnn New Year!" 
When he's naked, he puts back on his 
hat and coat and starts running around 
the theater, still yelling, " Happy god-
damn New Year! Happy goddamn New 
Year! '' opening and closing his coat as 
he runs. The audience, as bored with 
the movie as he was, is on the floor 
laughing hysterically. The manager :Uust 
have had some compassion even if he . 
didn't have a sense ofhumor, for he 
kicked the guy out, but dido 't have him 
arrested. After all, he was just part of 
the show. 


**Jamaican smoke**
**Author: Doug McKinney**

Jamaican smoke 
Bob Marley and the Wailcrs virtually 
define reggae music, and this album is 
the most successful attempt to date at 
~apturing that sound on record. Reggae 
IS fmally catching on in thi~ countr). lt 
inruences everyone from Paul Simon to 
the Rolling S•ones, hut only .-.:~entl} · 
have the authentic Jama:can groups 
t~emselvcs received :my reai recogni-
uon. 
. 
Reggae music is a bizarre combina-
tion of Jamaican and African rhythms 
with_ rock'n_'roll from the late-night 
Flonda stations, liberally lubricated with 
the finest Jamaican smoke. This may be 
part of the reason for .the delay in their 
acceptance by the recording industry, 
for marijuana is part of their religion, 
and their songs are very religious. The 
other part of their religion consists in 
worship of the emperor Haile Selassie 
as the living god on earth, Lion of 
Judah, King of Kings, etc. Or more 
simply, Rasta. The fact that he had been 
deposed didn't impress Bob Marley very 
much, and I suppose that news of his 
death will not matter much to the 
Rastafarians, as they call themselves. 
They take the role of prophets quite 
seriously, and it is impossible to 
understand what they are trying to do 
with music without some notion of 
where this all comes from. Specifically, 
it comes from Trenchtown, a massive 
~hetto in Jamaica that makes slums in 
ihe states look like Scarsdale. Despite 
increasing commercial success ("I 
Shot the Sheriff" was Eric Clapton's 
cover of a Bob Marley tune} they have 
not forgotten their roots. They have a 
message, and the sincerity and depth of 
their feeling just shines through the 
whole album. 
The music itself is deceptively 
simple. Subtle cross-rhythms between 
the percussion and the bass set up an 
irresistable beat which manages to hold 
perfectly the line between taste and 
energy. American musicians, particular-
ly bass ~layers, can learn alot from 
listening to reggae. They use space as 
an intrinsic part of their music, in fact, 
what they don't play is often more 
important than what they do. Discretion, 
taste, timing, and a unique style put 
Bob Marley and the Wailers several 
notches above what passes for music in 
this country. 
Maybe coming up in an environment 
like Trenchtown gives .them the maturity 
and sense of timing that never once fails 
on this album. Certainly it has given 
them a purpo:.e and a direction; Marley 
means to be taken seriously when he 
sings, 
·'Let righteousness cover the earth 
like water cover the sea 
lightning, thunder, brimstone and 
ftre"' 
If this is to be music after the Rasta 
revolution, then all hail Rasta, King of 
K:ings, Lion of Judah, and, uh, pass the
page 7 
The last piece, Robert Moore's 
·~hatasms~' _was an exercise in agility. 
~tght mustqans played some thirty 
t~struments in~luding drums, a synthe-
Sizer, automobtle gears, and different 
sized drinking glasses half filled with 
wa~er. The two percussionists only had 
thetr socks on as they dashed from 
bongos to tubular bells to military snares 
to te~p!~ blocks. Marty Brody played 
the vtohncello and the rims of the 
drinking glasses with his bow. Keith 
~rion conducted without explicitly set-
tmg the rhythm. Instead he· held one 
finger up, then two fingers ten seconds 
later, then three and so on each new 
fi_~ger signalling a new seq~ence. As he 
dtd, Robert Morris detached and 
reattached electrical cables on his 
synthesizer. Brody did vibrato on glass 
nms and the shoeless percussionists ran 
from the snare drum to the tubular balls. 
The musicians were serious and precise 
as they produced what some in the· 
au~ience thought·were amusing random 
nOises. 


**In the family way**
**Author: Dennis Shasha**

In the family way 
What do you call two people involved 
in a relatively stable relationship which 
involves love, sex, and shared living 
space? A few nights ago during dinner, 
Greg Ritchie 
my housemates and I looked at the 
range of titles. For two people "living 
ptpe. 
Jazz composition 
together," "friend" was too broad, and 
"boyfriend" or "girlfriend" too juven-
ile. "Paramour" and "consort" were 
archaic' and suitmate," "cobabitor" 
and "roommate" too general. "Lover" 
left out the social side of the 
relationship, and couldn't be said to 
About 200 people sat down in 
Sprague Hall October 24 to hear "Yale 
your parents. We decided that a new 
Composers Under the Influence of 
word was needed to describe people 
Jazz,·' and several other influences as 
within nonmarriages. 
well. 
One of us said that his mother 
"Chord," written and conductect. by 
referred to his sister's boyfriend as her 
David Mott, began the concert. The 
"son in common law." A major 
loud, hyper first minutes found the hom 
breakthrough! From there we leaped 
players with their heads up and trumpets 
effortlessly to the acronym SICL, or 
high-a soprano sax player waddled 
coll09uially, "sickle." The versatility 
rhythmically into the audience. John Levy of th!$ acronym soon became apparent. 
stood up with his trumpet and played 
Your parent could call your lover a · 
some spine-tingling sequences. Mott 
"sickle" or a " dickle. " At the same 
meanwhile kept time by moving his 
time, your lover's mother would be 
hands as if He were flipping a water 
your "mickle," and your lover's father 
balloon from one hand to the other. 
your "fickle," or even better, " pickle" 
. It was a strange scene. Balding Mott, 
(papa in common Ia~). 
tn mod grey suit, checkered green shirt 
~he whole scheme seemed flawless 
and bushy rust-colored beard, was up 
until we reali~~ .~at Y?:n- si~ter would 
front conducting instrumentalists who 
be your lover s 
Sickle whtch unfortu-
seemed to be doing nothing in common. 
nately conflicted with the son-incommon 
~radually, a background moan with 
law "sickle." w_e quickly re~edied the 
slight variations in pitch dominated, 
~.ro~lem .~Y makmg the latter mt~ 
producing sounds closely resembling 
smckle 
(n~t to be confused wtth 
city intersection noises. The musicians 
Colu~bus Smckle). 
looked glum, almost bowing their heads 
'!'hts name-syst~m could ~xtended 
as they played. 
to mclude all farmly (you;:..lover's 
"Cadenza " by Yehudi Wy e _& 
nephew, cousin, e~.)""and friends 
, 
n r 
~or 
~n 
nc es :, . n ?, course, your lover 
clarinet and piano - was a zippy piece 
w?uld be a 
hckle -but could you say 
that a non -pianist just might reproduce 
thts to grandmother and ·'grickle'?" 
while doodling on a piano in a large 
_Now yo_u may feel perfectly content 
deserted mansion ... so random that it 
wtthou~ this new system, muddling 
was scary. The audience waited a few 
along like the w~an I overheard in 
seconds after each section of the piece 
CCL the other ~tght: "Oh John? ~e's 
before clapping. Nothing in the final 
?~r-.uh-boyfn_end, ~ ~ean, they re 
bars suggested an ending. 
. ~avmg a Relatt~nshtp -urn-they're 
After intermission came Robert ~lor-
hvtng together... 
"!'~e old f~ terms 
ns· ·Not Lilacs .. This \\as more rcarly 
may . wor~ for de~cnbmg the sunplest of 
normal jazz and the audience could nod 
relatt?nshtps: but .how ~oul~ yo~ ever 
in rhythm. Roben D'Angelo gave a 
descnbe a rruckle s ex-tickle s ruckle? 
virtuoso ninety second performance on 
drums which earned him loud and 
well-deserved applause.


**Any Woman Can Have an Abortion**
**Author: Rosemary Bray**
**Page number(s): 8**

Any Woman Can 
Have an Abortion 
But do we need to feel like bad girls if we do? 
c c:~e 
by Rosemary Bray 
Co~necticut is threatening women's 
rights to abortion. Governor Ella 
Grasso, a Roman Catholic is a dedicated 
member of the .. pro-life" ranks. The 
Connecticut General Assembly is in the 
proces$ of restricting the access of some 
women to abortion with the requirement 
of the consent of the father. 'The 
Connecticut Welfare Department has 
been notified that they are no longer 
allowed to cover the cost of an abortion 
as part of their services, a directive 
which places the added burden of 
medical oills on women who are least 
able to pay. 
Abortions have always been legal, but 
until 1972 when the U.S. Supreme court 
ruled abortion laws unconstitutional thev 
were performed only under certain 
conditions. A woman had to prove that 
her physical or emotional well-being 
would be endangered by the birth of a 
child. Only Yale-New Haven Hospital 
performed abortions in New Haven. 
Examinations by two psychiatrists and 
two gynecologists were required to 
prove a pregnancy dangerous. The 
patJent paid for these examinations 
herself. If their recommendations did not 
pass a committee at Yale-New Haven 
her investment was lost. The abortion 
itself, incurred an additional cost of 
$230 or tnore, if she bad reached .the 
second twelve weeks of pregnancy . 
In 1969, a group ot professionals 
from the Departments of Obstetrics and 
Gynecology, Psychiatry, and Social 
Work at Yale-New Haven met to 
:>rganize a service that would provide 
support tor women through the crisis of 
pregnancy. This group undec the 
direction of Dr. Nathan Kase, Chairman 
:>f the Department of Obstetrics and 
Gynecology was named Family Advis-
ory Counseling and Treatment Service. 
The program opened officially in 1970. 
Though hospital sources were extremely 
reluctant to admit it, one of the reasons 
F .A.C.T.S . was formed was to increase 
the availability of abortions for women 
by helping them to comply with the 
state codes concerning their emotional 
stability. 
F.A .C.T.S. wished to keep a low 
profile to remain an effective advocate 
for their patients. In some cases, 
the financial strain placed on the woman 
was almost unbeanlble. F.A.C.T .S. tried 
to arrange alternative methods of 
payment. In other cases, young women 
would find themselves pressured into 
having an abortion when they were 
strongly in favor of keeping the child. 
Here, F .A.C. T.S. tried to act in their 
behalf to eUminate the tension between 
the women and therr tanuttes. Utten 
they helped plan for the SUJ??Ort" of the 
child. F .A.C .T .S. attempted to provide 
marital and sexual counseling as weU. 
Yale and New Haven women inde-
pendant of Yale-New Haven Hospital 
(Y-NHH) began working with this 
problem at the same time. 1be New 
Haven Women's Center was one of 
several feminist organizations in the city 
that began defending the right of 
women to control their own bodies. 
Women at the center felt F .A.C.T.S.' 
impact was negligible, if not negative. 
1be service cost far more than many 
women could afford. And many patients 
complained bitterly about the callous 
attitude of the doctors, the insensitivity 
of the staff and the long wait before the 
and the other members of the board. 
abortion was performed. 
The fonner were women with a feminist 
So, out of the Women's Center came 
perspective, wary of the male dominated 
the Women's Abortion Referral Service. medical profession which they felt 
By this time,abortions were legal in 
excercised undue control over the lives 
New York City. Even with the added 
and bodies of women. The latter group 
expense of transportation, an abortion in . of men and women found feminism a 
New York cost less than one in New 
new and unsettling pbenomenon;they 
Haven. W .A.R.S. operations were 
did not believe all women had the 
necessarily clandestine; it was still 
authority to determine the care and 
illegal in Connecticut to refer a woman 
treatment of their own bodies .. 
for an abortion for reasons other than 
The tensions that were generated 
those specified in the state codes. One 
within the group focussed finally on the 
woman involved with the project during 
issue of the clinic's affiliation: should 
that period said, .. We had to be really 
the clinic operale under the auspices of 
careful; we used first names only, and 
Y-NHH or not? The women were 
took any records that we had home with 
adamant; it should bt: an independent 
us." 
-----, 
clinic outside the hobpital, but with 
; 
.. 
;[ 
. ', 
1 emergency. Dr. Kase and otbers argued 
the implausibility of the plan and 
pointed out the dangers of complica-
tions. Dr. Kase resigned frrst, followed 
by others. One of the members, in 
looking back, speculated as to the cause 
of the resignations: ' 'It had to do with 
power. The W.A.R.S . proposal was a 
challenge to Yale-New Haven as one of 
the most prestigious member'S of the 
American medical community. 1be idea 
of women getting together and establish-
ing a clinic without the sanction of the 
male medical profession was an ego-
hlow. " 
I /.• 
J' 
L_ __________ ~ 
________ 
. :_-______ __ 
Meanwhile, women were taking the 
issue to the courts. Kathy Emmett, a 
Yale Law School graduate, challenged 
the Connecticut abortion laws by filing 
a class action suit. lllousands of women 
became plaintiffs in Women vs. Con-
necticut, and Ms. Emmett argued the 
·case before the Connecticut Supreme 
Court. About the same time, the United 
States Supreme Court ruled that abortion 
laws were unconstir..1tional . 
The Supreme Court's decision in 1972 
eliminated the necessity for psychia-
tric/gynecologjcal consultation, and for 
the decision committee at Y-NHH. Dr. 
Kase chose shortly afterwards to form a 
' 'community board of directors'' to talce 
responsibility for the F.A.C.T .S . clinic, 
now that they could publicly aclcnowl-
edge the existence of such a clinic. 
W .A.R.S. discovered the existlence of 
the board by accident and invited 
themselves to the next meeting. It was 
suggested that members of W .A.R :~ · be 
allowed to sit on the board. In addJbon, 
Dr. Virginia Stuermer, a colleague of 
Dr. Kase at Y-NHH was nominated to 
the board of directors. According to a 
former W.A.R.S . member, .. Tile sug-
gestion was sort of balked at, but they 
finally agreed. In return, we made a 
vague sort of promise to refer a certain 
number of patients to the F.A.C.T.S. 
clinic. We never did, though." 
Some of the W .A.R.S . women were 
skeptical about the motives of Dr.Kase 
for providing this service, believing he 
was simply out for the money the 
serv1ce brought to the Department of 
Obstetrics and Gynecology. 'They poin-
ted out that all abortions were done at 
Y-NHH by faculty of the Yale Medical 
School for very high prices. Other 
members of the board frrmly believed 
that his actions reflected his real 
concern over the issue of abortion in 
New Haven. 
These conflicting views resulted in 
friction betwcenn the W.A.R.S. group 
After the resJgnattons, the remaJrung 
members of the group began plans for 
an outpatient abortion clinic. One of the 
first actions acided representatives from 
Fiar Haven Clinic, Hill Health Center 
and Family Planning to the board of 
directors. The group hired Harriet 
Bogard, a lawyer and founder of 
Dixwell Legal Rights to help with the 
fund-raising campaigns. Dr. Virginia 
Stuermer, 8l' original board member and 
the only gynecologist left in the 
organization was appointed medical 
director. Tbey sought additional medical 
personnel. During this period members 
of the board approached doctors in the 
community and received intially positive 
responses. When contacted again, these 
same doctors expressed reluctance and 
finally refused outright. Women in the 
project at that time said that the 
doctor's refusal was linked to the 
response of Y -NHH to their affiliation 
with the splinter group. No doctor can 
practice without hospital _affiliation and 
this privilege can be rescmded by_ the 
hospital for reasons of •unprotesstanal 
conduct.' 
Finally, almost 2 years after the board 
split, Women's Health Services opened 
on the second floor of the 
renovated Firehouse 19 on Edwards 
Street off State. 1be aim of W.H.S. is 
to provide diagnosis of pregnancy, 
counseling and abortion during the first 
I I weeks. A group affiliated with 
W.H.S., Women's Health Education, 
offers a series of courses on ··women 
and our Bodies", that deal with 
menstruation, sexuality and women and 
health care, among other topics. 
Both Women's Health Services and 
F.A.C.T.S.(which has since been re-
named the Sterling Clinic) use the 
vacuum aspiration method of abortion, 
considered the safest and most 
simple procedure available. After a local 
anesthetic has been injected into the 
cervix, the os, or opening of the cervix 
is gently stretched with a series of 
dilators until it can accomodate the 
insertion of a blun~-tipped tube about the 
size of a fountain pen. This tube is a 
vacuum cunette, and is attached to a 
suction machine, or aspirator. The 
aspirator works like a vacuum cleaner, 
emptying the contents of the uterus. The 
proced~ its:elf takes anywhere from 3 
minutes tO a maximum of ·J 0 minutes. 
Afterwards, an ordinary cunette may be 
used to scrape the walls of ~ 
uterus 
and check for any tissue that the 
aspirator may have missed. 
The cost of this procedure is $165 at 
Sterling Clinic. The fee includes lab 
work, a complete physical, contracep-
tion information counseling and the 
abortion itself. At Women's Health 
Services, the cost is $125 and includes 
lab work, physical, counseling, birth 
control information and supplies, the 
abortion, a RboGam injection if the 
mother is RH positive, and a follow-up 
exam two weeks after the procedure is 
performed. 
Payment for the procedure at Sterling 
and W.H.S. is covered by Medicaid, 
CMS, and specified bealtb insurance 
plans. In addition, the Connecticut 
Feminist-Federal Credit Union offers 
loans to women who need abortions and 
plan to have them at W .H.::>. 
The Sterling clinic, located on 
Congress A venue across from the 
hospital, is painted in hospital colors. 
The patient is admitted to the building 
by a buzzer and her name checked off a 
list. She is asked for a urine sample, 
then led to a waiting room where she is 
handed some forms to complete. One is 
a medical history, the other is a 
questionnaire, designed to act as a guide 
for social workers. She answers ques-
tions such as ••What method of birth 
control were you using when you 
became pregnant?," .. Have you ever 
made a suicide attempt?," .. How sure 
are you that you want an abortion?" 
She waits there until her name is called, 
when she joins a group of women to 
(continued on page 5) 

