Publication date: February 27, 1982
Volume: 14
Issue number: 5

**MASTHEAD:**
- Publisher: Ed Bennett
- Editor-in-Chief: Andy Court
- Designer: Matt Gaynor
- Business Manager: Jeff Foster
- Production Manager: Hilary Callahan
- Photography Editor: Rollin Riggs
- Associate Editors: Paul Hofheinz, Jim Lowe
- Associate Production Manager: Alex Savich
- Staff: Serena Collison, Geoff Hayward, Jane Hinson, Walter Jacob, Tim Misner, Geoff Pope, Sloan Walker, Lelia Wardwell


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- Comment: Fear and loathing at Career Advisory - Walter Jacob
- Towards environmental literacy - Will Winkelstein
- The state of the Union - Paul Hofheinz
- An interview with Athol Fugard - Heinrich von Staden
- The Political Union's identity crisis - Jim Lowe
- Toad's' defensive line - Matt Hamel
- Profile: John Downey: from Chinese prison to the Senate trail - Tony Caplan
- Research: Hopes and concerns over cheap isotopes - Tim Misner
- Books: Whodunit? Master Winks - Lenny Picker
- Bloom's latest "misreading" - Elizabeth wahl


**Title: The state of the union**
**Author: Paul Hofheinz**
**Page number(s): 8**
It's called an agreement but the two sides that 
signed it disagree on what it means both for 
themselves and for the Yale community. 


**Title: An interview with Athol Fugard**
**Author: Heinrich von Staden**
**Page number(s): 14**


**Title: The Political Union's identity crisis**
**Author: Jim Lowe**
**Page number(s): 22**


**Title: Toad's' defensive line**
**Author: Matt Hamel**
**Page number(s): 26**


**Title: Profile: John Downey: from Chinese prison to the Senate trail**
**Author: Tony Caplan**
**Page number(s): 30**


**Title: Research: Hopes and concerns over cheap isotopes**
**Author: Tim Misner**
**Page number(s): 34**


**Title: Books: Whodunit? Master Winks**
**Author: Lenny Picker**
**Page number(s): 36**


**Title: Bloom's latest "misreading"**
**Author: Elizabeth wahl**


**Upcoming Acts ...**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Upcoming Acts ... 
February 
27 The Sixties, 
(formerly Fostfingers) 
28 Eight to the Bar 
March 
1 Kenny Rankin 
2 Uncle Chick 
3 King Crimson 
4 t.b.a. 
5 t.b.a. 
6 Arizona Maid 
7 Aztec Two Step 
8 Renaissance 
9 High Times 
10 Roger McGiunn 
11 Mose Allison 
12 & 13 Meade Brothers 
14 Jake & the 
Family Jewels 
15 Steps, with Mike 
Mainieri, Eddi Gomez, 
Michael Brecker, Don 
Grolnik & Peter Erskine 
16 Marocka, A tribute to Santana 
17 Rust, A tribute to Nell Young 
18 Stick & the Shifters 
19 The Sixties 
20 Apple 
21 Cobble Mountain Band 
22 t.b.a. 
23 Arizona Maid 
24 The Fleshtones 
25 Blotto 
26 Bean Bolero, 
A tribute to Steely Don 
300 YORK STREET 
Concert Line: 777·7431 


**The New Journal**

The New Journal 
Members 
Peter B. Cooper 
Sherwin M. Goldman 
Nicholas X. Rizopoulos 
Daniel Yergin 
Board of Directors 
Ed Bennett, ex officio 
Andy Court, ex officio 
Matthew Gaynor, ex officio 
Thomas Strong 
The New journal is a monthly 
magazine of news and comment. Ten 
thousand copies of each issue are 
distributed free to all members of the 
Yale University community. 
Copyright 0 1982 
by The New Journal at Yale, Inc. 
3432 Yale Station 
New Haven, CT. 06520. 
Office hours weekdays 1-3pm 
105 Becton Center 
The New Journal thanlcs: 
Ron Amarant 
Andy Bn"mmer 
Chuck Corney 
Doug Connell 
W . J. Cunningham 
T emma Ehrenfeld 
Robert Fermann 
Ellen Gibson 
Mark Mcintyre 
Frank Prot/ 
R. A. Shoaf 
W. Hampton Silks 
Dtu:~id Teitelman 
Molly Whalen 
Christianno. Williams 
Will Winlcelstein 
Yale Daily News Typesetting Service 
Jtm Yeadon 
About thla laaue 
One of the biggest editorial 
challenges we face is matching people 
with ideas, the right writer with the 
right story. We were particularly ex-
cited when Heinrich von Staden, 
Master of Ezra Stiles College, agreed 
to interview South African playwright 
Athol Fugard whose new play opens 
at the Yale Rep on March 12 . 
Von Staden grew up in South 
Africa and is a friend of Fugard. The 
interview, conducted earlier this 
month at Kavanagh's was an. emo-
tional reunion for the two men who 
hadn't seen each other in two years. 
During the course·of their conversa-
tion, they were frequently interrupted 
by people who affectionately praised 
Fugard and welcomed him back to 
New Haven. 
On another note, we'd like to con-
~ 
gratulate Paul Hofheinz and Jim 
Lowe who have been elected 
Associate Editors. This will be the 
fifth issue on which they have worked 
-
not only writing articles and 
editing copy, but also helping with 
business and production. 
Lowe is a freshman in Morse who 
wrote the article on the Political 
Union's identity crisis. Hofheinz is a 
sophomore in Silliman who wrote this 
issue's cover story on the new union 
contract. Hofheinz first began 
covering the labor beat last April. He 
wrote this story after carefully 
examining the new contract's terms in 
an attempt to sort out the union and 
university's claims and counterclaims. 
We think the story of organized labor 
,.
at Yale is one of the most complex 
and important stories on campus 
because it so greatly affects the cost 
and quality of life. 
Hope you enjoy this issue. 


**Fear and loathing at Career Advisory**
**Author: Walter Jacob**
**Page number(s): 5**

· Comment----
Fear and loathing 
at 
Career Advisory 
Walter Jacob 
January 18 was a pretty hectic day for 
the folks over at the Yale Career Ad-
visory and Placement Service. Seems 
like they had about 43 per cent more 
seniors than usual lining up for their 
On Campus Recruiting Program this 
year, and a whole bunch forgot about 
the deadline for turning in resumes. 
Ed Noyes, Director of Career Ad-
visory, said he was a little peeved when 
50 people he'd never even laid eyes on 
jammed the halls near closing time 
looking for a steady income. But he 
was still gratified to find people's opin-
ions changing about his line of work. 
"When I first got here," he rem-
inisced, "it really seemed like students 
ran home, got out of their good clothes 
and into their jeans so nobody'd fmd 
out they were coming here." 
Times have changed. What with 
unemployment creeping up near nine 
per cent and all, Mr. Noyes figures 
people are naturally just getting antsy 
about not having a place to hang their 
hats come May. And Mr. Noyes has a 
right to his opinion. Its just that things 
looked a little different from my point 
of view. 
I guess I chose the wrong day to go 
pick up an LSAT application form. I'd 
ignored the resume deadline warnings 
because I wasn't interested in the pro-
gram, but if I'd known they were stag-
ing a trial run of the Last Judgement, I 
would've brought popcorn. 
I ran into a couple of friends coming 
out of the door at 1 Hillhouse and 
mopping the sweat from their brows. 
"Hey, can I borrow your typewriter? 
I've gotta write my resume." 
"Hey, what're you going to do next 
year, anyway?" 
They looked pretty pleased with 
themselves, but I had this funny feel-
ing that if they had had tails they 
would have been holding them be-
tween their legs. 
Inside the windows were starting to 
steam up, but people were in too much 
of a hurry to take off their down 
jackets. Those who weren't running to 
beat the clock were looking at their 
shoes as if they wished they could fit 
more of themselves inside of them. I 
recognized a woman maki'tg herself 
small under an enormous recruiting 
Walt.,Jecob 
poster in the crowded corridor. 
"Last chance to get interviewed by 
Proctor and Gamble," she offered 
weakly, 
shielding her interview 
preference list with a sheaf of papers. 
The back room was the main attrac-
tion. That's where everybody was go-
ing through the job directories in a 
panic and writing down anything that 
looked worthwhile, and scribbling 
names on scraps of paper and holding 
5 

--- Page 6 ---

6 
their heads and moaning about lost 
ideals. Some didn't even have time for 
that; they just entrusted their fortunes 
to the fates and copied down somebody 
else's preference list. I heard some 
great lines. 
"I need a job objective. Gimme a job 
objective." 
"You're into marketing. Didn't you 
say you wanted to go into marketing?" 
"Well, no. I mean yes! Oh, for 
Christ's sake!" 
And then there was the throng that 
had already finished their applications 
and could laugh about it, sporting one 
broad collective grin like the Israelites 
on the far shores of the Red Sea. One 
hooted to those still toiling: "Hey, 
how're you gonna pay the rent, huh?" 
Somebody had pinned up a hand-
scrawled sign that seemed to sum up 
the whole scene. 
"Welcome to the real world." 
Not that I think most of us are going 
to see a lot of the real world that most 
people know after we graduate. After 
all, Ed Noyes says even students with 
no technical background who get a job 
through his service will average around 
S 1 7,500 a year for a starting salary. 
That's S3,000 ahead of the national 
average for graduating liberal arts peo-
ple he says. And those with math or 
science backgrounds will be landing 
jobs at between $22,000 and $24,000, 
first time out. 
But it seemed like that sign almost 
sanctioned what was going on at 1 
Hillhouse that day; almost told those 
folks who were scrambling to make the 
deadline, to just fill those embarrassing 
blanks on the application form and 
pass the damned thing in so they'd still 
be runners in the race, that it was okay 
to tum off the brain and turn on the 
juice. 
It wasn't so much a question of look-
ing out for number one, you see. It was 
all those fears of the unplanned future, 
all those prying questions the parents 
and relatives asked over Christmas 
break, all those friends getting into 
nedical school, all those decisions that 
are so tough to make on your own. 
Sure, some people knew . what they 
wanted in a job and grabbed for it ear-
ly. But the ones bending over the 
reference books that afternoon didn't 
seem to want to know. The hour of the 
weighing of souls was at hand, and 
more than poverty, more than humil-
iation, more than betraying all those 
principles they had always held dear, 
the people I saw seemed to fear the 
responsibility of charting independent 
courses. They weren't applying for jobs 
because unemployment was up. They 
were applying because the deadline 
had come. They didn't need a better 
reason. They had indeed entered the 
real world, where things just get done a 
lot quicker if you shut up and stop ask~ 
ing questions. 
Ed Noyes says he thinks the crowds 
in his halls show that students are giv-
ing more consideration to business 
careers now than in the recent pcut. I 
don't think what's going on here has 
much to do with business or with con-
sidered opinions. From what fve seen, 
it looks like just another manifestation 
of that invincible human penchant for 
blind conformity. And I don't know 
why anybody should hesitate to con-
demn it. 
• 
Waller Jacob, a senior in Sil/iTTUJn, is a 
regular contributor to The New Journal. 


**Towards environmental literacy**
**Author: Will Winkelstein**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

Towards 
environmental 
literacy 
Will Winkelstein 
When Fred Krupp, head of the Con-
necticut Fund for the Environment, of-
fered a seminar on environmental law 
in Pierson last fall, 121 students ap-
plied, 
the 
most 
for any 
college 
seminar. "Field and Stream" editor, 
George Rieger, also found a receptive 
audience for his seminar on "Conser-
vation in America." 
Only the most naive administration 
could ignore the obvious appeal of en-
vironmental courses. Yet despite this 
proven interest, Yale College has no 
environmental studies program. 
Sparse course offerings, inadequate , 
coordination and insufficient publicity 
have defeated any attempt to provide 
environmental education. 
Although the American Studies ma-
jor permits an environmental studies 
concentration, it presents no grouping 
of these courses. When asked about 
future prospects for the program, 
American Studies Assistant Professor 
Bryan Wolf conceded, "Rather than 
say 'improve' it, it might be better to 
say 'find' it." The school of Forestry 
and Environmental Studies offers only 
"Man and the Natural Environment" 
to Yale undergrads. It presents the 
course inconsistently, though, and 
undergrads must search out the few re-
maining environmental courses, scat-
tered throughout the blue book. 
One faculty member dissatisfied is 
Michael Smith, a history lecturer who 
says "there's nothing that holds 
everything together." Stressing the ap-
parent popularity of the environmental 
s~minars, Smith admits, "that tells you 
something important is going on that 
Yale College is not addressing." 
Yale should wake up to the glaring 
reasons for a responsible environmen-
tal studies program. 
Impending 
ecological problems demand a more 
far-sighted and assertive response. 
Lounging in the "Land of Plenty," 
Americans have only recently been 



**Title: The Environmental Crisis at Yale**
**Author: Will Winkelsuin**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
forced to confront the realities of 
limited resources. Comforted by this 
misperception of abundance, they ig-
nore environmental dilemmas. 


The "Global 2000 Report to the 
President," published in 1980 by the 
Council on Environmental Quality 
and the State Department, sums up the 
rather bleak outlook. The report con-
cludes, "If present trends continue, the 
world in 2000 will be more crowded, 
more polluted, less stable ecologically, 
and more vulnerable to disruption 
than the world we live in now." 


Without an appreciation for the en-
vironment, the world cannot avoid this 
ominous fate. 


Environmental laws 
may handcuff the most visible of-
fenders, but they do nothing to change 
cultural attitudes. The government has 
been equally ineffective. Since the 
publication of Global 2000, it has cut 
dramatically the budgets of the Interior 
Department and the Environment 
Protection Agency. Interior Secretary 
James Watt's controversial policies fur-
ther emphasize the need for a better in-
formed society which can responsibly 
evaluate environmental questions. 


While the future demands a basic 
awareness of environmentaJ 
pre-
dicaments, it also affords a variety of 
career opportumues. Engineering and 
computer science may have drawn the 
most attention as up-and-coming 
fields, but most people do not realize 
the wealth of available environmental-
ly related careers. 


Other Ivy League schools, such as 
Brown, Princeton and Harvard, all 
share a stronger commitment to en-
vironmental education than does Yale. 
Brown offers a major, and Princeton 
and Harvard refer interested students 
to the appropriate facuJty members 
and departments. 


Wolf, Smith and Forestry Dean 
WilJiam 
Smith have sought im-
provements in environmental studies 
at Yale. Dean Smith suggests the ap-
pointment of a new faculty member to 
work through both the Forestry School 
and American Studies to teach two in-
troductory environmental studies 
courses. Such an instructor would also 
coordinate existing offerings into a 
more cohesive presentation. 


Although a usefuJ idea, these recom-
mendations constitute only a first step 
in bringing environmental education 
to Yale. None of the world's multiply-
ing resource problems can be ad-
dressed if leading universities do not 
provide adequate environmental 
studies programs. 


Yale should offer more than just two 
introductory courses; it should bring 
environmental questions 
into the 
mainstream of academic life. The cur-
ricuJum needs many new courses, 
coordination of existing ones, and an 
en·. ironmental studies major. Not un-
til Yale effects these changes can its 
students become environmentally 
literate. 

Will 
Winkelsuin 
is a 
sophomore m 
Saybrook. 


**Title: The state of the Union**
**Author: Paul Hofheinz**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

Everyone knows there was no strike. 


But few people understand what came 
out of Th~ Agreemmt b~tw~m Yal~ Univer-
siry and tM Ftdnation of Universiry 
Employus Local No. 35. The document 
is called an agreement, but the two 
parties that signed it disagree on what 
it means both for themselves and for 
the Yale community. 


They disagree, for example, on one 
of the Union's most important con-
cerns: job security. Under the terms of 
the new contract, employees in the 
bargaining unit who have worked at 
Yale for 10 years or more cannot be 
laid ofT for lack of work for the dura-
tion of the contract. The Union inter-
prets this provision to mean that a 
worker has a guaranteed right to his or 
her own job after 10 years of service to 
Yale. But the University maintains 
that the language of the contract does 
not prevent it from reassigning those 
workers to a different job, even if the 
job is in a lower wage scale. 


"What if something happened in the 
energy department and we decided all 
of the people in the power plant were 
going to be changed to something 
else," Donald Stevens, Director of 
Employee Relations and chief nego-
tiator for the University explained. 
The contract "says that all of those peo-
ple with 10 years of experience will be 
given some other position." 


Stevens described the process the 
University would use to give jobs to 
the workers protected by the contract 
as a "bumping down" process. "They 
don't maintain their own position, but • 
they use their seniority to bump down 
somebody else," he said. 


If the Administration's interpreta-



tion is correct, most of the concessions 
won by the Union on job security 
would mean effectively nothing. For 
example, the University could under 
certain circumstances 
transfer a 
Locksmith making S9.91 an hour to 
another position 
like 
Elevator 
Operator or Pantry Worker, where his 
skills would be useless, the work 
disagreeable, and the pay several 
dollars an hour less. After 15 or so 
years of being a Locksmith, he would 
most likely be driven away from the 
University, which would make the 
transfer into an effective layoff. 


The Union disagrees forcefully with 
Stevens' interpretation. 


"I'm interested if that's his inter-
pretation, because it's fundamentally 
wrong," said John Wilhelm, Business 
Manager and chief negotiator for 
Local 35, "If they stuck with that posi-
tion, we'd arbitrate it," he added. 


"There's no question we would win." 


Wilhelm cited a 1979 ruling by an 
impartial arbitrator that "the term 
'layoff' means 'from your own job.'" 


That ruling, made under the terms of 
the 1977 contract, precludes transfer-
ring a worker to another position. 


Most likely, the arbitration ruling 
still holds up, because the changes 
made in the new agreement do not 
depart significantly from the old con-
tract. Arbitration has a status similar 
to legal precedence; it is subject to 
review, but cannot be changed unless 
the factors surrounding the case have 
changed or the impartial arbitrator can 
be proven incorrect. 


"If that ruling is in order, the 
University wouldn't have a chance," if 
they took this statute before an ar-
bitrator, said Julius Getman, a Yale 
Law Professor who specializes in labor 
law. 


If the University cannot transfer 
employees at will, then the Union has 
won 
some substantial 
protection 
against layoffs by obtaining some small 
changes in the contract. The old con-
tract specified that no employees "shall 
be laid off for lack of work during the u-
mainder of the University fiscal year, • which 
begins and ends every July 1 . The 
language of the new contract reads 
"during the term of this agreement," 
which expires on January 17, 1985. 


Those few words give the Union a 
lot more job protection than they 
might seem to contain at f~rst sight. If 
the Union refuses to let the University 
remove that provision the next time 
the contract is renegotiated, then any 
worker with 10 years of service at Yale 
can hold his job as long as he wants it. 


"Assuming we retain that provision 
in the future, it protects those workers 
permanently," Wilhelm said. 


Who won? 


The 
Union 
and 
the 
University 
disagree not only on the issue of job 
security, but also on the more general 
question of who made the most conces-
sions at the bargaining table. Wilhelm 
maintains that the new agreement con-
tains "major breakthroughs in the non-
economic area ... including very 
strong new language on job security." 


Stevens maintains that the Union "did 
not get more than we can give an a 
reasonable fashion." 


"If they 
think 
they 
won, 
I'm 
delighted, because we think we won 
and that's what counts," Wilhelm said. 


The Union did get a number of 
benefits. Apart from the disputed 
clause on job security, it won full 
coverage of medicaJ costs for spouses 
and retired employees; a commitment 
by the University to make "good faith 
consultations" on how to reorganize 
departments, improve work load prob-
"In sheer power terms we 
don't have the ability to crlp· 
pie the University." 
lems, supply equipment and create 
entirely new jobs where they are need-
ed; a streamlined grievance procedure 
with penalties on the University for not 
acting on a filed grievance within a set 
time period; a commitment to pay 50 
per cent of tuition for classes taken by 
an employee; new strong language on 
sub-contracting; and an extended sick 
leave. 


But the Union accepted a small 
wage proposal to get these concessions. 
In the Union's original proposal made 
last November, it sought a 15 per cent 
across the board raise and a higher 
Cost of Living Allowance (COLA). 
That figure dropped over the next few 
weeks to 12 per cent, then nine per 
cent, and finally, six per cent three 
days before the contract was due to ex-
pire. In the last minute compromise, 
the negotiating committee agreed to a 
meager 1. 4 per cent raise with the 
same COLA from the old contract in 
exchange for the new language and 
benefits. 


"In every respect but wages, it's an 
outstanding proposal," Wilhelm 
reportedly told the workers before they 
voted whether or not to accept the con-
tract. "If you want to strike, do so on 
the wage issue and the Union leader-
ship will support you." 


The Union believes it got a good 
deal even with the low wage increase 
because it had already corrected the 
problem of salary in the past. In 1968, 
when Local 35 had its first strike, the 
workers' wages were scarcely above the 
minimum wage. Now three strikes 
later they are among the highest paid 
dining hall and maintenance workers 
in the country. 


"We've had the luxury of being able 
to concentrate on [other benefits] but 
it's a luxury we've created ourselves by 
the economic progress that we've made



**Title: Yale Union Averts Strike**
**Author: Rollin Riggs/The New Journal**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"I'd be embarrassed to take 
that back to my bargaining 
unit." 
Rollin Riggs/The New Journal 
Yale~ Centrex operators are some of the many clerical workers the union wants to organize. 
in which the people went out on the 
street," Wilhelm said. 


"They make more than anyone else 
in the area for their kind of work," 
Wilhelm added, "and that's one of the 
principal reasons why our members 
were willing to settle for a relatively 
modest economic package." 

As a result of the "modest" wage set-
tlement, the University saved a lot of 
money. Donald Stevens points out that 
the new contract contains a smaller 
percentage increase in overall costs to 
the University than e-ither the settle-
ment in 1977 after a 13-week strike or 
the one in 1974 after a 
10-week 
walkout. These figures indicate that 
the combined cost of the new benefits 
and the wage increase is less than the 
cost of the wage concessions made by 
the University in the past. 

"We shouldn't pay any group at Yale 
more or less than competitive wages, 
and that meant a little less for the 
bargaining unit and a little Jess over a 
three year period 
is 
a 
powerful 
number," according to Jerald Stevens, 
Vice-President of Finance and Ad-
ministration. 

Furthermore, Donald Stevens noted 
that the final settlement on wages is 
virtually identical to the University's 
first offer made last December. In the 
final proposal, the upper salary grades 
got a 30 cents an hour raise, up only 
five 
cents 
from 
the 
University's 
original proposal. The lower salary 
grades got a five cents an hour raise, 
the same figure that the University had 
proposed in early December. 

Moreover, the Union agreed to 
make the salary for people entering the 
workforce one dollar less for their first 
six months, and 50 cents Jess for their 
second six months. Wilhelm points out 
that this change will affect no one 
already 
in the bargaining unit, 
although it will be felt by people who 
are just starting to work for Yale 
including student dining hall workers: 
But at least one local labor leader 
feels that the substantial concessions 
the Union gave on wages are not offset 
by the benefits they got in return. He 
points out that job security means very 
little if the University is about to hire 
more workers as the Administration 
has hinted it will do. He also claims 
that the commitments to consult with 
the Union do not mean much because 
the Union has no recourse if there is 
disagreement between the two parties. 
•rd be embarassed to take that back 
to my bargaining unit," he com-
mented. 

"It's not like Yale is General Motors 
and you've got to save the institution" 
by accepting low wages, he added. "I 
think they (the Union] got clobbered" 
at the bargaining table. 


No matter who got the better end of 
the Agreement, both sides won a 
substantial victory by signing the first 
three year contract at Yale since 1965 
without a 
strike. Even with 
economic and working condition im-
provements that Local 35 brought 
about in the 1970s, the strikes were not 
easy on the workforce, especially the 
long ones that lasted 10 and 13 weeks. 

Likewise, the Administration is happy 
to have done away with much of the 
hostility that the strikes caused in the 
work place and the greater New Haven 
community. 

"No one knows what it's like to settle 
around here," Wilhelm commented 
just after the vote. 

How clo•• to • etrlke? 
The Union's and the University's vital 
interests were not in direct conflict this 
time around. They both seemed wil-
ling to settle for low wages and more 
benefits. But Union officials say there 
would have been a strike if the U niver-
sity had not given in on some of its 
more controversial demands, 
par-
ticularly the attempts to "take back" 
proposals from the old contract. 

"There is a school of thought which 
is popular in management these days 
that rather than going to the bargain-
ing table and in effect proposing the 
status quo and arguing about how 
much forward you ought to go, that 
the management ought to come to the 
bargaining table and talk about going 
backwards," Wilhelm said. 

Stevens maintains that the Universi-
ty's proposals were made to help 
management operate more efficiently. 

"We were proposing things that would 
help the University operate," he said . 
"I don't know if they were for bargain-
ing purposes." 

The University wanted to limit the 
number of times a worker could bid to 
switch departments in a year, make 
Good Friday into a floating holiday, 
and put a 40 cent cap on the COLA. 
But the most important "take back" 
was an attempted revision of Section 
2.9 covering job descriptions and job 
titles. Under the old contract, the 
University had to notify the Union of 
any job reclassification 10 days before 
it takes effect, thereby allowing the 
Union time to challenge their decision 
through the grievance procedure. The 
University sought to rewrite that 
statute so that it could reclassify at 
will without having to notify the Union 
in advance, according to Sam Issacha-
rofT, a second year Law School student 
and 
member of Local 
35's 
negotiating committee. 

"That change would have effectively 
put the Unions out of business," 
IssacharofT said, because, like the 
disputed job security 
policy, 
University could use the classification 
to manipulate the work force by 
switching their jobs around. 

IssacharofT maintains that, had the 
University not dropped the proposed 
change on the last day of negotiations, 
there would have been a strike. 

Wilhelm agreed. "If they'd insisted 
on those take backs, there would be a 
strike," he reportedly told the workers 
just before they voted on the new con-
tract. He said the University withdrew 
those proposals over the weekend of 
the vote, except for the reduction m 
starting salary which he described as 
"acceptable." 

Wilhelm also maintains that the 
"take backs" strategy backfired on the 
University. "If the University proposed 
(the 'take backs'] as a way of getting 
people to settle for less, I think they 
had the opposite effect," he said. "They 
pissed people ofT." 

Local 35 captialized on the "take 
backs," using them against the U niver-
sity. The Union negotiating team met 
regularly with "captains" elected from 
each department at Yale to report on 
the progress being made at the table. 
The news of the "take backs" spreading 
through the work force as a result of 
those meetings gave rise to much of the 
pessimism and anxiety felt by many 
members of the community as the 
deadline approached. 

Local 35 also had another ploy to 
bargain from a more powerful posi-
tion. They circulated a flyer entitled A 
Chalkngt to Yale University the same 
week that negotiations began. "We 
want Yale to let us increase our pro-
ductivity," it read, blaming "wasteful 
bureaucratic management" and "lack 
of consistency and effective planning," 
for the "productivity problem." 

By casting the University as the 
primary impediment to more efficient 
production, the Union used the same 
claim against the University that might 
have been leveled against itself. Many 
people felt that the University was go-
ing to hold that the members of Local 
35 were •Jazy" and "overpaid," as 
justificaton for the low salary increases 
they sought from the first day of 
negotiations. But Local 35 tried to 
deflate that charge with the productivi-
ty flyer. 

"That was a good ploy by John," a 
high ranking University official said. 
"The University certainly has an in-
terest in improving productivity, and 
he tried to capture the University's 
ground." 

Wilhelm also made many remarks to 
the press throughout the negotiations 
to the effect that the University's un-
willingness to cooperate with Local 35 
was hurting the negotiations. 

"There is a total lack of interest in


"Quite frankly, I'm somewhat 
surprls$d we're not out on 
the streets." 

doing something useful like [improv-
ing productivity) by the administra-
tion," he told the Yale Daily News four 
days before the contract would expire. 
'They want to continue to ignore prob-
lems like these," he added. 

"That was never said at the bargain-
ing table," Stevens maintained, adding 
that the Union and the University 
came to a conceptual agreement on 
"productivity" early on, but disagreed 
primarily on how much of a wage in-
crease the workers should get. 

"Wilhelm, as any union person will 
do, will seek out the news sources and 
give them statements because he's try-
ing to keep his constituency involved," 
Stevens said. "I don't have that prob-
lem." 

troublemakers in the negotiations, 
Wilhelm could either score points 
among the members of Local 35 · for 
winning concessions for them, or 
blame a strike on the University's un-
willingness to cooperate, if need be. 

But Local 35 was not able to get 
every improvement they sought even 
with these tactics. Wilhelm reportedly 
outlined to the workers before the vote 
some of the proposals that he would 
like to have gotten from the Universi-
ty, such as medical coverage for dental 
care and eyeglasses, improvements in 
the pension plan, free parking, and 
reform of the job classifications. 

"We'll never have any improvements 
in these areas until we have a clerical 
and technical union," he reportedly 
told the members of Local 35. 

White collar drive 
Wilhelm maintains that while Local 35 
had made significant improvements in 
working conditions at Yale, they have 
done so with rather limited resources. 
With over 9,000 employees at Yale, the 
1,373 employees in Local 35's bargain-
ing unit make up a small portion of the 
workforce. 

As Wilhelm explained in an inter-
view last summer: "In sheer power 
terms, we don't have the ability to crip-
ple the University. Our strikes harass 
the University, 
inconvenience the 
University, embarass the University, 
but just in terms of raw power, the fact 
is that we can't control the University 
by ourselves. That is always a fact 
which overshadows everything that 
goes on at the bargaining table. We 
know it and they know it. On the other..., 
hand if the clerical and technical and 
the service and maintenance people all 
stood together, 
that's another 
ballgame." 

Since November of 1980, Local 35 
has led a drive to organize the clerical 
and technical workers into a sister 
union called Local 34. If it is suc-
cessful, the two unions would have a 
great deal of power at the bargaining 
table especially if they chose to honor 
each others' picket lines. While they 
could use that strength to negotiate 
better settlements for the work force, 
the changes would no doubt raise the 
operating costs of the University, 
leading possibly to higher tuition or 
curtailed services. 

Recently, Local 35 has overcome 
many of the obstacles which kept the 
Union from calling for a vote on 
union representation by the white col-
lar workers. On January 21, just five 
days after the union ended its two 
months of negotiations with the 
University, the United Auto Workers 
(UA W) suddenly ended its three and a 
half year old drive to organize the 
clericals and technicals. Their 
withdrawal ended the confusion tha~ 
many workers had because two unions 
were competing for the nght to repre-



**Title: Yale Union Contract Settlement**
**Author: Paul Hojheinz**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Yale's Donald Stevens sent them. Moreover, Local 35 began to distribute cards last fall Ollf which they will need the signatures of 30 per cent of the work force, around 800 people at Yale, to call for an election. Until that time, the Union had worked on establishing a rank and file committee of around 500 workers with at least one employee from every department at Yale. All of this means that white collar workers might have to decide sometime this spring whether or not they want union representation. 

With the prospect of a clerical and technical union lurking in the background, the University and the Union have an added stake in how the community perceives them and the contract. The UAW first approached Local 35 about withdrawing their organizing drive on Thursday, January 14, three days before the contract expired, but it withheld the announcement until after the settlement, perhaps so as not to cause the University to push the Union into a strike to take the steam out of its organizing drive. 

Both the University and the Union have taken much advantage of the Yale press to put forward their interpretations of the contract. "This contract should be a source of inspiration for the University clerical and technical employees," Sam Issacharoff wrote in an editorial in the Yale Daily News. Days later, Wilhelm followed up with a letter to the editor calling attention to the increases in blue collar wages from the COLA, something which white collar workers do not have. At the same time, Stevens gave much play to the "cents per hour" increase that the blue collar workers got in an unsigned article he wrote for the Weekly Bulletin and Calendar. He pointed out that the weighted salary increase was only 1.4 per cent per year, as well as that the old COLA, which is also in the new contract,only provides quarterly increases at 40 per cent the rate of inflation. 

And so, Yale and the Union find themselves once again on opposite sides of the bargaining table. While negotiations between the two parties have ended, the dialogue about how to interpret The Agreement between Yale University and the Federation of University Empwyees Local No. 35 goes on. Perhaps the real winner of this past contract settlement was not the Union, or the University, but the Yale community, who for only the second time in 14 years will go three years without a strike of one of its most essential work forces. 

"Quite frankly, I'm somewhat surprised we're not out on the streets," Wilhelm commented after it was all over. 

They are not out on the streets, and that in itself is quite an accomplishment. 

"I'm interested if that's his interpretation because it's fundamentally wrong." 
Rollin Riggs/The New Journal 
The Union's John Wilhelm 
• 
Paul Hojheinz, a sophomore in Silliman, last wrote on robOT at yale in the October issue of TN].


**Title: Heinrich von Staden Interviews Athol Fugard**
**Author: Heinrich von Staden**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

Outspoken South African playwright Athol Fugard has had several of his plays produced at the Yale Repertory Theatre. His most recent play- Master Harold and the Boys - premieres at the Rep March 12. It deals with an episode in the lives of two black men (Willie and Sam) and a 17 year-old white boy (Hally, later called Master Harold). 

A part-Afrikaner who writes in English and lives in Port Elizabeth, South Africa, Fugard has written, directed, and acted in over a dozen plays, both in South Africa and abroad. He is best known in this country for his plays A Lesson from Aloes (produced at the Yale Repertory Theatre with James Earl Jones and Mario Tucci under Fugard's direction), Boesman and Lena, Sizwe Bansi Is Dead, The Blood, and The Island. In 1979, he also published a novel, Tsotsi, which was written more than twenty years earlier. 

All of Fugard's works are set in South Africa and deal with politically explosive material in a humane, sensitive way. They dramatize how difficult it is for people's decency to survive the brutalizing effects of racial oppression; but his plays also insist that it is possible- indeed imperative- for individual decency to survive the moral imperfections of the state and of the body politic. 

Heinrich von Staden, a friend of Fugard's, is the Master of Ezra Stiles College and Associate Professor of Classics and Comparative Literature at Yale. Born in Pretoria, South Africa, von Staden grew up mainly among Afrikaners and urban Blacks and attended Afrikaans schools. He voluntarily left South Africa when he was seventeen and has lived in self-imposed exile in Austria, Germany, and the United States ever since. 

Parts of the following interview were conducted in Afrikaans.

Heinrich von Staden: Athol, whenever I see you roaming around freely, I'm relieved. You are walking on the edge of what is permissible in South Africa, with a lot of the themes you are treating. You never fall off that edge. And the authorities don't push you off the edge. Nor do they chain you so that you can't continue walking along the edge. I sometimes wonder, is that because Athol is writing in English?

Athol Fugard: It's because I'm writing in English, and there's another factor. Another important factor, Heinrich. The days when the likes of myself- old style liberals like Alan Payton (the South African author)- were regarded as Public Enemy Number One are past. The polarization within South African society is extreme now. God, I'm not going to make bombs; Alan is never gonna make bombs; but there are people who are making bombs. Ten years ago they thought that Alan and I might get around to making bombs one day. And that's when they were nervous. They didn't realize then that we were actually never into making bombs at all.

HvS: The bombs of fiction-Athol, aren't they more explosive than TNT?

Fugard: I'd like to believe that. You understand I've got to be careful about that one. I've got to be careful about flattering myself about the potency of the one area of activity which I've got, which is theatre and being a writer.

HvS: How often have there been productions of your plays for non-segregated audiences in South Africa?

Fugard: I've had to change my tactics in terms of that over the years. At a period when the policy on segregated audiences in South Africa was rigid and very strictly enforced, I had to make a decision whether to take on an act of silence, just be silent because I couldn't go into a theatre that was decent in my terms, or whether to take on the compromising circumstances of segregated audiences simply because I felt that if a play has got something to say, at least say it. And there were years when I decided to do the latter. I did perform before segregated audiences. In a sense I regret that decision now. I think I might possibly have looked after myself- and maybe the situation- better by not accepting that compromise. But I did.

HvS: But do you think you had a genuine choice at that time?

Fugard: I had a choice between silence or being heard.

HvS: Let me ask you, along similar lines, when you are writing a play or a novel like Tsotsi, do you sense constraints on the way you are writing in view of the fact that certain things are anathema to the government, also in fiction?

Fugard: I would like to believe that I have operated at the table at which I sit and write, that I have operated totally without self-censorship. Maybe some awareness of what is possible and is not possible has operated subconsciously and is deciding choices I make in terms of what I favor. I think it may be pertinent to the conversation we are having, that Master Harold and the Boys is the first play of mine in 24 years of writing that will have its premiere outside of South Africa. And one of the reasons why I'm doing that this time is that there are elements in Master Harold and the Boys that might have run into censorship problems.

HvS: I appreciate exactly what you're saying; there was a point in the text where indeed I asked myself, "how could this be performed in South Africa?"

Fugard: Well, that's why I'm here in New Haven.

HvS: Has your relationship with Yale been confined to the Yale Rep, or has it included the Southern African Research Program and the University in general?

Fugard: Yes. The Southern African Research Program-that's joint Yale and Wesleyan- got me over here on a fellowship. I must say I did find the academic aspect of Yale a bit heavy going.

HvS: Athol, let's make no bones about it, you're not an academic.

Fugard: No. Certainly not.

HvS: You don't have a university degree.

Fugard: No, and the language academics use sometimes make me wonder whether I, in fact, speak English or not.

HvS: Let me ask you this, because I think it leads to an important question for those of us who are in universities. Here you are, a person who, critics say, has achieved exceptional insight into human nature, and you never obtained a university degree. What institutions, what processes do you think contributed most to the insights you have?

Fugard: Well, I think to be a South African is in a way to be at a university that teaches you about that. The South African experience is certainly on ...



**Title: Athol Fugard Interview**
**Author: Heinrich von-Staden**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"They talk about federalism, 
they tal.k about something 
called the President's Coun-
cil ... It's 
all 
a 
load 
of 
rubbish." 
r 
Athol Fugard, interviewed by Heinrich von-Staden 
David OttenstelnfThe New Journal 
which, if you're prepared to keep your 
eyes open and look, you're going to see 
a lot of suffering. But then, in terms of 
personal specifics, I suppose for me 
there was a very, very important rela-
tionship, a friendship, with a black 
man in what I suppose is any person's 
most formative and definitive years, 
the age between 11, 10 up until the age 
of 20. It was a black man in Port 
Elizabeth, and my play Master Harold 
and the Boys reflects something of that 
friendship, tries to talk about it, look at 
it. I left South Africa, hitchhiked 
through the African continent, ended 
up as a sailor on a ship which, apart 
from the officers and engineers, had a 
totally non-white, had a totally black 
crew, and I was a sailor in a totally 
black crew. There was that. I think I 
can't nail down any one specific 
traumatic incident as being totally 
decisive. But I could be certain that 
Master Harold and the Boys deals with 
one specific moment which I'm trying 
to exorcise out of my soul. 
HvS: In all of your plays and in the 
novel you always have a South African 
setting. Yet your plays and your 
novels, 
though so rooted in the 
specifics of the South African situation, 
seem to have a tremendous appeal to 
audiences that are largely ignorant of 
the situation there. To what do you 
ascribe that? 
Fugard: You take a chance. As a 
storyteller one year ago, I took a 
·• 
chance . . . I realized that it was final-
ly time to deal with the story of a 17 


"If you're prepared to keep 
your eyes open and look 
you're going to see a lot of 
suffering."


year-old boy and his friendship with 
two black men. And it's a gamble. 
There's no formula. There is no way 
that you can make or decide or 
guarantee before the event that that 
story is going to resonate outside of its 
specific context. You just take a bloody 
chance. 
HvS: Let's go back again to South 
Africa from a slightly different angle. 
After you've been in a country like 
America or England, where you can 
speak and move freely, without the 
kinds of constraints that are only too 
well known to exist in South Africa, 
why do you go back to South Africa so 
insistently? Every time you've been 
abroad, you've insisted on going back 
again. 
Fugard: My answer to the question is 
quite simply that the little or the lot I 
know about loving, which is, I think, 
the most important activity in life, was 
taught me by South Africa. I must ad-
mit that the moment I find myself out-
side of my country I can cut through 
very cleanly to why I love it, why I will 
eventually want to go back to it, and 
why I will be buried there. I've chosen 
my spot. 
HvS: You've chosen your spot? 
Fugard: There's a Iitle village in the 
mountains behind GraafT-Reinet. 
HvS: But why would a man who is as 
alive as you are, think so much about 
death . . . as to go and choose . . . ? 
Fugard: Because it's going to happen. 
HvS: Do you think about it very 
often? 
Fugard: There's a 
marvelous few 
sentences in the preface to Kazant-
zakis' RqJorl to Greco, where in the 
course of it he says: "Listen, I'm 
writing this goddamn thing"- he's 
talking to his wife; he says, "I'm writing 
this thing so that what you finally put 
into the ground: just bones, just bones. 
There must be nothing left." At a cer-
tain point as a writer your writing pro-
cess involves a progressive unburden-
ing. You're not accumulating any-
more. You're unburdening yourself. 
Master Harold, relieved me-left me 
feeling a little bit lighter. 
HvS: This country where you will be 
buried, 60 miles from where you were 
born, near Graaff-Reinet, is a country 
which many people think does not 
have much of a future. I was very 
struck in this context by a scene from 
your new play where the notion of pro-
gress 
is introduced, 
because that's 
something that Afrikaners are harping 
on all the time: "We're making pro-
gress, we're making progress." And the 
scene to which I am referring, you will 
recall, from Master Harold, is where 
Hally, before he becomes Master 
Harold, says: "If Joan of Arc was cap-
tured today, she'd . . . 
Fugard: Oh, I love that exchange ... 
I was so happy when that happened. 
HvS: It's beautiful. But your text: "If 
Joan of Arc was captured today, she'd 
be given a fair trial." And then Sam 
says: 
HvS and Fugard (in unison): "And 
then the death sentence." 
HvS: And then Hally says: "I know, I 
know. I oscillate between hope and 
despair." 
Fugard: On the stage it's going to be 
(because my mispronunciation of 
words in my youth, simply because I 
didn't have a good education, waster-
rible) ... it's going to be "I os-killate." 
H vS: Great. Does Athol Fugard also 
os-killate between hope and despair? 
Fugard: Yt>s, yes, yes. My despair is 
always involved in trying to see the 
whole situation, trying to use my im-
agination, in terms of what can happen 
if maybe I get it all sorted out. In that 
context I 
get very confused and 
therefore inclined to despair. What I 
find I cannot lose faith and hope in is 
what Sam says to H ally at the end of 
the play. What Sam's little moment 
amounts to, is saying to this little white 
boy who is going to walk out after a 
series of very traumatic incidents: 
"You can choose the quality of the life 
you're going to live. It's absolutely 
your choice." 
HvS: So your hope arises from your 
faith in individuals? 
Fugard: Yes. 
HvS: And your despair arises from the 
total political picture? 
Fugard: Correct. 
HvS: Do you have some kind of 
systematic or intuitive vision of what 
you think would be a feasible alter-
native to what we now have in South 
Africa? 
Fugard: I can't but believe that any 
decent social system starts with One 
Man, One Vote. I mean, I think that is 
my first and my last political utterance. 
I don't know .. . they talk about 
federalism; 
they 
talk 
about 
something called The President's 
Council now; it's all a load of rubbish. 
HvS: Do you think that the Afrikaner 
would survive, the white man would 
survive? That, of course, 
is 
the 
Afrikaners' standard counter-argu-
ment to a One I\-1an, One Vote system. 




Fugard: Individuals would. Maybe a 
corporate Afrikaans identity would get 
lost, but I don't care about those iden-
tities. 
HvS: As you know, one of the more 
controversial 
topics in American 
univerSities 
whether 
American 
universities should get rid of whatever 
stocks and other holdings they have in 
corporations that do business with 
South Africa. Would you be in favor of 
divesting of holdings in such corpora-
tions, first of all? And secondly, would 
you be in favor of an economic 
boycott? 
Fugard: What's very interesting for 
me is this: Poland is in very serious 
trouble, and the Reagan administra-
tion had no hesitation in moving in 
with some fairly radical sanctions 
against Poland. Yet no American ad-
ministration has 
even 
mooted the 
possibility of similar action against 
South Africa. 
HvS: But there is the decision by cor-
porations 
to 
adopt the 
so-called 
Sullivan principles and their implica-
tions: Equal pay for equal work; in-
tegrated cafeterias; integrated toilets, 
and so on. 
Fugard: That's token. Talk, talk, talk. 
That doesn't change a farthing. 
HvS: So you're in favor of divestment, 
you're in favor of total economic 
pressure, a trade embargo? What 
about the counter-argument that the 
blacks are the ones who would suffer 
most? They'll lose their jobs in Port 
Elizabeth, 
at 
Ford, 
at GM, at 
Firestone. 
Fugard: The black people I've talked 
to, and others whom 
I've heard 
reported, 
have said ... We are 
prepared to go along with that if 
something's really going to happen . 
if something will finally happen. 
HvS: And to drop below the sub-
sistence line? 
Fugard: Ja. 
HvS: Athol, let's get back to your 
plays. One of the things that I find 
striking, both about Piet Bezuidenhout 
in A Lesson from Aloes and about Master 
Harold, is that you leave your audience 
feeling quite ambivalent about your 
protagonist. Let's take Master Harold. 
H ere is a fundamentally good kid who 
went much further than a lot of white .. 
people in South Africa would: in being 
open to blacks, in being willing to 
teach them, to communicate with 
them. Essentially, Hally was not a 
racist until he becomes unveiled as 
Master Harold. And at that point the 
ratio of good to evil becomes very 
unclear, becomes very fuzzy. 
Fugard: Hally [is] 16 or 17 years-old, 
emotionally confused in the way that 
any adolescent would be anywhere in 
the world, but when you also happen 
to be a South African ... You see, 
what is interesting is the way he dic-
tates the nature of the relationship with 
Sam; he forces roles on Sam; he makes 
Sam a servant in one moment: "Just 
get on with your bloody job! No more 
nonsense around here." At another 
moment he'll allow Sam to become his 
intimate, and he will stand in genuine 
adoration of Sam's vision of a worlJ 
without collisions and say: "God, that's 
beautiful Sam, you've got a vision." 
And he can also get around to spitting 
in his face, all of which actually just 
reflects his degree of personal confu-
sion. There is the traumatic experience 
when he leaves the stage at the end of 
the play ... it has been spelt out very 
clearly by Sam that you, and you ahme, 



**A scene from Fugard's Boesman and Lena**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
A scene from Fugard's Boesman and Lena 
can decide the man you're going to be, 
which was, in a sense, an equivalent 
moment for Piet Bezuidenhout when 
he'd stop his bus and listen to those 
(black) people and they slapped him on 
the back and they welcomed him, and 
he realized, as Master Harold has got 
to realize, that to sit on a "whites only" 
bench is to do something as profoundly 
damaging to yourself as it is to do 
something damaging to Sam. I just 
think that the South African ex-
perience involves that radical degree of 
choice. I've talked to young Ameri-
cans, I've talked to old Americans, I've 
talked to middle-aged Americans, and 
their sense of a radical choice is not 
very profound, whereas in South 
Africa it is, and to the extent that you 
get poised on going one way or the 
other, the degree of ambiguity and am-
bivalence must of necessity operate. 

H vS: An interesting thing about Piet 
Bezuidenhout is that at first, yes, he 
stops his bus. The moment of curiosity 
becomes a moment, very soon, of 
political transformation. H owever, by 
the end of the play, one has the feeling 
that, in spite of the clear , radical 
choices Piet has made, he is left dangl-
ing. 


**Title: The Political Union's Identity crisis**
**Author: Jim Lowe**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The 
Political 
Union's 
Identity 
crisis 
Jim Lowe 
22 
Party of the Right members toast at Mory's. 
Bill Buckley was a member. Kingman 
Brewster was a member. At one point 
in the 1960s one quarter of Yale under-
graduates were members. Yet now this 
group has barely 400 undergraduate 
members and is one of the more de-
rided student organizations at Yale. 
Attempts !O deal with the Union's soil-
ed image and sagging membership 
have set off a debate both inside and 
outside of the organization over its 
purpose and operation. 

The Yale Political Union is com-
posed of four internal parties that 
members can join dependent upon 
their ideological leanings. And it is be-
tween these parties- the Liberal Party, 
the Independent Party, the Conser-
vative Party and the Party of the Right 
-that what internal debate there is 
rages. The main question appears to 
be how, if at all, the Union can raise its 
membership up to the levels of ten 
years ago. 

"You can't put too much of the 
blame for the membership figures on 
the Union," said Independent Party 
Chairman Bernie Gilmore. "Basically 
we're not doing anything differently 
now than we were ten years ago. It is 
sort of depressing, though, seeing so 
few members." 

This sense of depression aided by 
the shadow of a once glorious and 
gigantic Political Union appears to be 
the root of much of the unrest and 
uneasiness now present in the PU 
ranks. But it is not the only cause. 

Some signs of actual decay worry 
Rollin Riggs/The New Journal 
many in the Union. For example, fuUy 
60 per cent of the Union's members are 
either freshmen or sophomores, and as 
Gilmore put it, "In truth, the Union is 
basically dominated by freshmen." 
These are mostly people who joined 
during the summer, before they even 
arrived at Yale and often do not renew 
their membership for a second year. 

Last semester attendance at Union 
student debates was sparse and at 
times almost non-existent. 

In 
December the Progressive Party of the 
Union dissolved for want of members. 
And on top of aU this, the PU has a 
public image of being elitist and 
dominated by people who, as one 
member put it, "are more interested in 
arguing nit-picky political rules than 
being involved in 
a 
meaningful 
political dialogue." 

So in essence the Political Union is 
an organization haunted by a multi-
dimensional image problem. Those 
outside the Union see it as meaningless 
and child-like. Internally, it is haunted 
by the ghost of the Political Union past. 

The origins of much of this situation 
can be found in the Union's changes 
over the past 50 years. Founded in 
1934 as a 
mock parliament, the 
Political Union spent its first 20 years 
of existence 
as solely 
student 
debating society. It was not until the-. 
1950s that the PU invited speakers to 
address it, and then only as key-noters 
for student debates. 

The sudden vast student interest in 
politics of the mid and late 1960s truly 


--- Page 23 ---

altered the PU. The students who 
came to the Union at that point were 
looking for more than philosophical 
debates that were often more social 
events than anything else. So more 
speakers were invited to key-note 
debates and also just to address the 
Union on topics of political interest. 
New parties formed within the Union 
reflecting the greater ideological 
spread it now represented. By 1970, 
there were five internal parties ranging 
from the activist, radical left Pro-
gressive Party to 
the ultra-
conservative, 
philosophic, debate 
oriented Party of the Right. 

Then in 1972 George McGovern 
was defeated, and soon after the Viet-
nam War ended and the Watergate 
disgrace began. Students' interest in 
politics declined. What activity re-
mained was centered on activist groups 
that had formed during the late '60s. 
The Political Union's membership 
dropped sharply. 

The Liberal Party, which has lost 
more members than any other party 
over the past few years, has made the 
strongest attempt to address 
the 
Union's image problems, identify 
causes and suggest solutions. In an 
editorial in the November issue of the 
party's internal publication The Liberal 
Dialo~, the party leadership identified 
what they saw as some of the causes of 
the Union's poor public image and 
possible ways to solve it. The editorial 
even went as far as to say, "Perhaps the 
time has come for the Liberal Party to 
reconsider its participation in the 
Political Union in its ·current sorry 
state ... But we'd better hurry- the 
PU is sinking fast." 

"That last bit is too strong, I guess," 
said Gary Hammer, one of the editors 
of the DUz/ogUL and presently Liberal 
Party chairman. "The problems we 
list, though, we take very seriously. 
We think these suggestions will make 
the Union more enjoyable for every-
one in it. If people aren't enjoying the 
Union, what is the point of having it?" 

The Liberals have two main com-
plaints. First, the Union constitution 
by requiring the use of the traditional, 
if somewhat pompous Robert's Rukr of 
Order encourages events such as floor-
fights and 
filibusters 
and also 
enhances the Union's image as pom-
pous and elitist. They focus this com-
plaint on the use of Robert's during 
speaker meetings. Robert's requires that 
a question to a speaker be addressed 
through the chairperson ('Mr. 
Speaker, does the Gentleman/Lady 
believe .. .'). 

The Liberals' second complaint has 
to do with the organization of the 
Union. They feel that, as one party 
member put it, "For better or worse, 
debate is a dying institution." And thus 
the PU's time and effort would be bet-
ter spent improving and expanding its 
speaker program. 

These are not radical reforms accor-
ding to the Liberals. Indeed, Hammer 
made a point of saying that he was not 
advocating that the Union drop entire-
ly its use of Robnt's. "In general these 
rules are very useful and necessary. 
However, in a public meeting, with an 
important speaker, there is no reason 
to force someone to speak through the 
chair. It looks silly. It made me laugh. 
Why shouldn't someone else laugh?" 

What Hammer suggests is that the 
Union adopt a policy of "polite over-
sight" of Robert's 
during speaker 
meetings. 

Doing this and strengthening the 
speaker program, Hammer and other 
Liberals believe, wiU attract many 
more people to the Union and improve 
its image. "We have got to get rid of 
the silliness [of Robert's and floorfights] . 
Then people will see what the PU real-
ly has to offer," Hammer said. The 
more people who are involved in the 
"If people aren't enjoying the 
Union, what Is the point of 
having It?" 
Union, he feels, the better it can do its 
job of providing an open forum for 
political discussion. 

For now, though, it seems unlikely 
that any of the Liberals' suggestions 
will be put into effect. The Union elec-
tions in December left the Liberals 
without a 
single member on the 
Union's Executive Board other than 
their party chairman. 

Also, 
Union's present Speaker, who is in 
charge of enforcing Robert's, 
is a 
staunch supporter of the rules. "I 
believe the rules are an important part 
of the Union," said Speaker Chris 
Bieda who is also a member of the Par-
ty of the Right. "It (the enforcement of 
Robert's) may drive a few people away, 
but we've always been able to get a 
balanced forum despite our strictures. 
Anyway, we are really much more lax 
about the rules than people think." 

Union President Joel Rubin, an In-
dependent Parry member, was even 
more to the point. "To say that people 
leave the Union because of Robert's- to 
me that is really a cop-out. I don't 
think addressing a speaker through the 
chair is really necessary, but at the 
same time I don't see why people have 
such a great aversion to it." He believes 
that there are other ways that the 
Union can attract more people. 

"I 
would 
like 
to 
see 
every 
undergraduate at Yale in the Political 
Union," said Rubin. "I believe we have 
something to offer each of them." He, 
howc:ver, does not feel that it is impor-
tant to realign the Union's structure to 
improve it. By salvaging the student 
debate program, adding more key-
noted debates and bringmg "thought-
provoking" people to address the 
Union, Rubin believes the Union can 
be strengthened. 

He agrees that the Union's reputa-
tion has been hurt by infighting in the 
past few years and thus he is determin-
ed to prevent that from recurring. "My 
23 


--- Page 24 ---

24 
" If you expect the gigantic 
speaker-a-week program-
well, we just don't have lt." 
main goal," Rubin said, "is to keep 
peace." He hopes that this peace com-
bined with a stronger program will in-
crease the number of renewed mem-
berships and thus lower the percentage 
of freshman and sophomore members. 

Rubin admits, however, that there 
are some things the Union in its pres-
ent form can do little about. Everyone 
in the Union, including the Liberals, 
agrees that a Progressive Party could 
not survive. "The radical left," said 
Rubin, "is interested in activism, not 
debate and discussion. We really just 
don't have a place for that group of 
Yale students." He and others also ad-
mit that in the end there is little the 
Union can do to substantially improve 
its speaker program. The Political 
Union does not pay honorariums to its 
speakers and thus must draw on its 
reputation and Yale's name to bring 
speakers here. 

That name and reputation have 
served the Union very well in the past. 
As well as being able to bring major 
Presidential candidates here during 
election years, the Union in the past 
few years has been able to set up such 
events as a nationally televised debate 
between Bill Buckley and George 
McGovern. Even today the Ptrs repu-
tation remains effective. 

"The speaker program is quite good 
as it is. Important people come here," 
said Gilmore. "Last term we had two 
cabinet officials, the Mayor of New 
York and Betty Friedan among many 
others. However, if you expect the 
gigantic speaker-a-week program-
well, we just don't have it." 

Nonetheless, the Union seems to 
provide an important service to its 
members. On this point everyone in 
the Union, including the critics in the 
Liberal Party, agree. In addition to the 
regular PU events which include ap-
proximately two dozen speakers a year 
and almost-weekly debates, each party 
offers its own calendar of events. The 
Liberals and Independents each have 
programs of internal debate and invite 
outside people to meet exclusively with 
them. The Liberals are also involved 
with a number of activist groups at 
Yale. Indeed, the Connecticut Com-
mittee for Handgun Control grew out 
of the Liberal Party. The Independent 
Party sponsors a trip to New York to 
meet political leaders. The Conser-
vative Party, due to its small size, of-
fers only a small program of events, 
though it does appear to have one of 
the stronger internal debate programs. 

~ 
The Party of the Right differs from 
the other parties. The POR never in-
vites outside speakers to meet with it; 
instead, it holds a weekly program of 
debate on topics ranging from the 
political (Resolved: 
Creation ism 
should be purged from the public 
schools) to the abstract (Resolved: 
Reason cannot survive the fall of God). 
But perhaps more than anything else, 
the POR is a social group for its core of 
members. 

Party Chairman Victor 
Lazaron admitted, "Undoubtably our 
members are closer, more incestuous if 
you will, than those in other parties. 
But then again, we put no pressure on 
our members. They can get as in-
volved as they want." 

Last semester the Union's program 
was "admittedly a bit feeble," accor-
ding to Bieda. This semester, however, 
the Union appears to be improving. 
Already they have presented a number 
of speakers including Carol Belamy of 
New York City in January and sena-
torial candidate Toby Moffett earlier 
this week. Also there have been a host 
of relatively well-attended student 
debates and major key-noted debates. 
Thus despite all the derision the Yale 
Union may receive and 
despite its sagging membership figures 
and internal attempts at reform, it still 



**Rollin RlggsfThe N- Journal**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Rollin RlggsfThe N- Journal 
The Ex~cutiv~ Commit~e of tlu Yale Political Union 
appears to remain an organization 
with a lot to offer politically interested 
Yale students. The purpose of the 
Union according to its Constitution 
and its officers is to provide an open 
• forum for political dialogue from all 
parts of the political spectrum, and it 
appears to be providing that service. 


What, then, 
is wrong with the 
Union? Many suggest it is simply the 
victim of increased student political 
apathy and a new professionalism in 
students' goals. If this is so, perhaps the 
concept of a mass membership Political 
Union is anachronistic. 

jim Lowe, a f u shman in M orse, wrov on 
stwknt involvmrmt at WY BC for the 
Decmrber issue ofTNJ . 


**Toad's' defensive line**
**Author: Matt Hamel**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

Toad's Place opens at 8. 
"Hi, how ya doin'?" asks Whiskey of 
the few 
fans who had been waiting 
outside. Cold, they tell him. He asks 
for their identification, collects their 
money, stamps their hands with one of 
24 rubber stamps and sets his 6'4 ~ ", 
300 pound frame on a barstool. 
"The type of crowd depends on the 
type of band," he says. "There's no 
such thing as an average crowd." Eight 
to the Bar, a 1940s revival band, is 
tonight's show, and it usually attracts 
women in their twenties. "They like to 
dance," he explains. 

If you have been at Toad's Place, 
chances are good that Whiskey has 
asked for your ID, collected your 
money, stamped your hand. He works 
five nights a week at the nightclub on 
York Street, and at least a couple of 
those are spent at the door. He is a 
floorman , not a bouncer, as his boss, 
Brian Phelps, is quick to explain. "I 
would never hire a bouncer," Phelps 
says. "My floorrnen are responsible for 
much more 
than just bouncing 
drunks." 

"I equate my joo with that of a white 
blood cell," soft-spoken Whiskey says. 
"fm here to keep Toad's Place safe and 
clean. Our theory is to have enough 
force to prevent an incident. If you had 
four people my size around you, it 
would be silly to do anything." The 12 
page training manual that floormen 
are tested on explains the Toad's 
system: the floor is divided into three 
zones. One floorman is responsible for 
the area to the right of the stage, one 
for the center, and a third for the left of 
the stage and downstairs. A fourth sits 
in the box in the middle of the floor 
and oversees 
the others. Vinnie 
Volmut is working in the box tonight. 
He sits behind the sound man, in front 
of the light man, and surveys the floor. 
"I have to keep an overview of 
everything that's going on," he says. 
"I'm like the quarterback. You have to 
train your eyes to look for a million lit-
tle things. It's a lot more than just 
fights. In fact, there are very rarely 
any fights." When a paper airplane 
lands innocuously on the stage, for ex-
ample, Vinnie searches the crowd for 
the culprit. The next time it happens, 
Vinnie spots him and trains a small 
white flashlight on him. Another floor-
man makes his way through the crowd, 
an art in itself, and escorts the villain to 
the door. 

"The system is great," says Whiskey. 
"It works much better than whistles 
. would, and the people don't notice it. 
They think the flashlight is just another 
light shining. We're able to get to a 
trouble spot and move the trouble out 
the door within 30 seconds. And a 
good doorman can keep trouble out 
before it gets in. 90 to 95 per cent of 
troublemakers don't get in." Since a 
dress code was instituted banning 
leather, Whiskey says, the motorcycle 
gangs that used to frequent Toad's 
never show up. "You know it's been a 
good night if you don't do anything." 

Even if they don't do anything, they 
are busy. Vinnie lists some of his 
responsibilities: "We have to clean up 
the bathroom, where you don't know 
what you're picking up. We have to 
deal with people who faint [there were 
two in 1981] or vomit, or play with the 
thermostat, or the air-conditioner, or 
the sinks. There have been stink 
bombs in the men's room. There was 
an M-80 in there once. People take 
drugs in there. People lie to your face, 
tell you they didn't do something you 
saw them do. People complain about 
losing a 
quarter in 
the 
pinball "' 
machine." 

Whiskey, as the senior floorman , is


The jloomu:n at Toad's await the night's crowds 
in charge of designating who patrols 
what zone. "We have 12 floormen, and 
seven come in on a busy night. The 
manager sets the guidelines for securi-
ty and I figure out how to do it." 

Whlakey'a .Journey 
Whiskey came to Toad's by way of the 
1960s. "I was a freshman at Yale in 
1966." He lived in Durfee, then af-
ftliated with T.D. "Things were dif-
ferent then. We wore coats and ties at 
every meal. There were no women. I 
joined the Young Democrats, drank 
red and green cups at Mory's, played 
freshmen football under Harry J acun-
ski, joined the judo team, the whole 
bit. Then the world started changing." 

Whiskey took two years off after 
freshman year. He joined what he calls 
"a counter-cultural commune" in 
Philadelphia, then returned to Yale to 
take drama courses. "I wasn't crazy 
enough. You have to really live, die 
and breathe everything." He drifted into 
the American Studies department, got 
married, moved off-campus. He took 
some more time ofT to run a center for 
emotionally disturbed kids. 

"Then I burned out. I went to 
California-everyone has to. I lasted 
in L.A. for two hours, then went to 
San Francisco. I decided that Califor-
nia was one _giant Boston Post Road, so 
I came back east." 

He got divorced, joined a co-op 
garage (he's still a part-time mechanic 
by day), and decided that he wanted a 
job with absolutely no hassles. "I 
became a parking lot attendant at the 
Yale-New Haven Hospital. It was a 
wonderful job; I became the super-
visor." He organized the attendants in-
to a union and led a seven-week strike 
for better pay and working conditions. 
"The strike resulted in a better con-
tract, but needless to say, I was, er, 
terminated." 

That's when Bill Walkauskas went to 
Toad's Place. "I thought it would be 
kind of fun, kind of like Matt Dillon 
after 15 years in Dodge City." He's 
been a fixture at Toad's since just a few 
months after it opened. "Hungry 
Charlie's was a restaurant here. When 
it moved out, Toad's moved in." 

Michael Spoerndle, the 30-year old 
owner of Toad's, is a graduate of the 
Culinary Institute of America, and the 
bar at Toad's was originally more im-
portant than the entertainment. Even-
tually, bigger bands and record com-
panies began to notice Toad's, and it 
grew into more of a nightclub. Promo-
tional parties are held there by record 
companies, such as a recent "listening 
party" given by CBS Records for Molly 
Hatchet's new album. The room was 
expanded in stages to twice its original 
size, allowing still bigger acts to tune 
up for New York or Boston gigs on the 
more manageable New Haven stage. 
Bruce Springsteen and Bob Seger jam-
med there after concerts at the New 
Jeff Strong/The New Jo .. rnal 
Haven Coliseum in 1979 (within a 
week of each other). Blondie and 
Meatloaf have also performed there. 

"Billy Joel was our biggest deal so 
far," Whiskey says. "We had 
13 
floormen, plus Joel's personal security 
guard. There were plenty of ofT-duty 
cops here, too." Normally meant to 
hold between 600 and 700 people, 
Toad's fit 1000 Joel fans that June 
night in 1980. A cut from his new live 
album was recorded there. 

"I remember that show, but I don't 
remember too many others," Whiskey 
says. "They all fade together. Five a 
week, 20 a month, four and a half 
years . . . They pay me to watch the 
crowds, not the shows. A band has to 
be really good to get my attention." 

Vinnie agrees: "When there's a band I 
want to see, I take the night off." 

Yale students started going to Toad's 
about three and a half years ago, when 
there were occasional Morse and Stiles 
nights. It grew from there. "Sometimes 
there are 20 per cent Yalies here, more 
on Yale nights," Whiskey says. 

While Whiskey talks, the crowd 
grows. He asks for identification, col-
lects money, stamps hands. When the 
small entryway gets crowded, he raises 
himself to his full stature, his green and 
yellow Toad's Place jacket buttoned 
against the winter that slips through 
the door. He keeps things moving 
peacefully by the mere authority of his 
27 



**Title: Toad's Place**
**Author: Matt Hamel**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
size. "I'm sorry, I can't accept this ID," 
he tells a kid with peach fuzz on his up-
per lip. His impassive, bearded face 
and thick-framed glasses create a 
psychological distance between him 
and the eager crowd, and Peach Fuzz 
doesn't even protest what is clearly the 
last word on the subject. 

When there are not as many people 
trying to get in, the entryway fills with 
Whiskey's friends: off-duty floormen, 
an ofT-duty cop (Toad's hires one every 
night, just in case), a pizza chef from 
Yorkside, the sound man, Toad's Place 
groupies who show up every night. 
"I miss when Toad's was crazier," 
Whiskey says. "It's mellower now. 
There's not even a fight on St. Patrick's 
Day. When we started it was more of a 
party. Now it's more of a business. 
That's the only way to expand, I sup-
pose, but the old days were fun, too. 
Remember the free popcorn all over 
the floor?" 

Floorman Bob Szponda, 10 year 
veteran of local bars, spews forth a 
library of anecdotes from the good old 
days. The 6'2" 250 pounder is a credit 
collector by day, but he clearly revels 
in his nighttime antics. His rapid-fire 
delivery and verbal shortcuts make 
him hard to follow, but now and then a 
decipherable phrase gives the neophyte 
listener a clue to the story's gist. "Then 
I grabbed two or three of the little guys 
and carried them outside," he says. "I'd 
quit before I'd kick out a woman who's 
pissing on the floor," he says. The con-
tent of the anecdotes is immaterial; if 
you wanted to film them, you would 
have to make a psychedelic, noisy se-
quence of blurred motion. 

The job is not as violent as its 
stereotype. "I've only thrown four pun-
ches in four years here," says Whiskey, 
"and I've had maybe twice that, maybe, 
thrown at me. The worst thing that 
Whiskry, jloorman at Toad's 
ever happened to me was when a guy 
saw 
his 
ex-wife 
here 
with her 
boyfriend. He went wild. We got him 
outside and I was holding him when he 
bit my arm. I had to have tetanus shots 
for that." Vinnie says he has never 
thrown or taken a punch in just over a 
year at Toad's. 

Just as there is no average crowd, 
there is no average floorman. Rohn 
Lawrence, 6'3" and 250 pounds, plays 
jazz at the Foundry Cafe on his nights 
ofT, as well as on some locally recorded 
albums. A nother floorman was once a 
Philadephia Eagle. They average 260 
pounds, and you would have to be 
pretty drunk to pick a fight with any of 
them. 

What they share, besides size, is 
Toad's Place. "Night people become 
your people," Whiskey says. "It's a 
whole after hours world. It makes 
sense to go to someone's house at 3 
a.m. When I go out in the daytime it's 
way too crowded. The cars are too 
close together." Whiskey generally 
stays up until sunrise. "They pay me to 
be paranoid here," he explains. "I've 
got to spend a few hours unwinding 
when I go home." He plays video 
games or his guitar to loosen up. He 
rises between noon and one ("I've never 
had much use for mornings"), works 
on his flower garden, sometimes strolls
Jeff Strong/The New Journel 
through the 11 acres of woods he lives 
on in Woodbridge. He reads, mostly 
modern English history, fixes himself · 
dinner, then goes to work. 

Whiskey is uncertain about his 
future. Toad's is expanding; a Water-
bury Toad's Place opened recently and 
more are scheduled. "Having a chain 
of Toad's Place was a gleam in the 
owner's eye when this was a sawhorse," 
Whiskey says, slamming his hand 
against the entryway wall. "I like hang-
ing around with music people and with 
the kids who come here. I like the fact 
that this is a safe place for them to 
learn how to drink." As for a bar of his 
own, "that's a lot of time and money 
down the road." 

VInnie In the box
"It's bizarre that I'm working here," 
says Vinnie, a 6'9", 275 pound blond. 
I'm more comfortable in a three-piece 
suit. I don't smoke. I don't like the loud 
noise; it affects your central nervous 
system. I love rock & roll, but I never 
hung out in bars. This is a bad en-
vironment for me." 

Vinnie is Toad's Place's video pro-
duction manager, and works as a floor-
man on a part-time basis. Trained at 
Hofstra University on Long Island, he. 
has worked in video for several years. 
He produced industrial training and 


**Title: Profile------Downey: from Chinese prison to the Senate trail**
**Author: Tony Caplan**
**Page number(s): 30**

For most candidates, a campaign for a 
seat in the U.S. Senate is a product of 
many years of political preparation, a 
carefully constructed resume, and the 
cultivation of political and media con-
tacts. But John Downey, Yale class of 
1951 and a candidate for the 1982 
Democratic Senatorial nomination in 
Connecticut, has had to make up for 
lost time. For 20 years Downey sat in a 
Chinese prison camp, captured as a 
CIA agent during the Korean War. 

Only for the past three years has he 
pursued a political career. 

The first Democrat to enter the 
Senate race this year, Downey formal-
ly announced his candidacy October 
20, 1981 at a party at the Piccadilly 
Square Restaurant in New Haven. He 
took a stand against most of Reagan-
omics and called for federal protection 
of minority rights and care for the im-
poverished 'and elderly. After the 
speech, 
he 
shook 
bands with 
everybody he possibly could, yet his 
actions seemed harried- this was not 
the practiced slickness of an experi-
enced politician, but the effort of a 
man learning a new style. 

The eldest son of a judge probate in 
Wallingford, and the grandson of the 
chairman of the Wallingford town 
council, Downey said he "grew up with 
the ideal of public service in mind." 
Because success in politics meant get-
ting the best 
education 
possible, 
Downey attended the Choate School in 
Wallingford where he graduated in 
1947 before coming to Yale. 

In college Downey was more active 
in sports than politics. He played 
center on the football team and was a 
heavyweight wrestler, while majoring 
in English and working in the library. 
He was"' lso a member of St. Anthony's 
Hall. Downey said he always adm1red 
the diversity of student talent. "My 
roommates were involved in different 
things," he said. "One was a newsie. I 
played football. But at night we'd get 
together and talk about the things we'd 
done that day. That's how I learned 
the most, in those late night talks." 

While Downey attended Yale, the 
Korean War was in progress. "There 
was a clear sense of duty, a belief that 
we had to rid the world of the Soviet 
threat," Downey said. The political 
mood at Yale in the early 1950s was 
marked by a conservatism and a 
search for personal security above all 
else. "We were filled with a sense of 
elitism," Downey said. "I don't know if 
that's changed." A passage from the 
1951 Yale Banner reads: "A time of 
uncertainty . . . that is what the year 
was to most of us ... Would we crush 
the North Koreans? was question 
number one." 

Downey's sense of duty led him to 
service with the CIA upon graduation. 
After a training course in Texas, 
where half the participants were Yale, 
Harvard or Princeton graduates, he 
was shipped to Japan for 11 months in 
preparation for service in Korea. On 
his second mission contacting Chinese 
agents behind enemy lines, Downey's 
plane was shot down. After his cap-
!ure, he was sent to prison in China, -
where he was given a life sentence. The 
CIA refused to admit he was an agent, 
and negotiations for his relea_§e made 
little progress. 

Although 
the Chinese never 
physically abused Downey, he said, 
they did subject him to much psycho-
logical torment and solitary confine-
ment. "It was a very stressful situation. 
I was isolated from the normal prison 
life. They wanted us to believe that our 
people had given up on us, something I 
never fell for." Once, during the later 
years of his capture, he was ordered to 
clean out 
a 
room 
in which he 
discovered a mail bag full of Christmas 
letters and well wishes from Wall-
ingford children that had been kept 
from him. 

Downey tried to make the best of his 
years in prison. "You learn to keep 
busy. I think that's the key to life. I 
would get up, exercise for an hour, 
wash, study for a few hours (I studied 
Russian for many years), listen to an 
English language radio broadcast, take 
part in the Mao study group, exercise 
some more, sew, clean. I did a lot of 
shoveling snow, things like that. Youv 
do a lot of thinking. You learn that the 
world goes on without you. You learn 
patience." 



**Title: John Downey's Political Campaign**
**Author: Tony Caplan**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
' After 20 years of imprisonment in China, john Downey prepares to go home. 
He says he is not bitter about his im-
prisonment; the CIA had warned its 
agents that if they were captured the 
agency would not claim them, and he 
still feels the CIA is an "essential agen-
cy in the tough world we live in." In his 
public statements, Downey seems to 
pass off his 20 years in jail as nothing 
more than a nuisance, a minor setback 
in the life story of a successful Yalie. 

During his years of confinement, 
Downey said he remained patriotic 
even as news trickled through about his 
country's 
growing disillusionment. 

The Chinese let him receive outside 
magazines, including Time, Newsweek, 
and the Yale Alumni Magazine. Downey 
said he was able to keep abreast of the 
major developments of the sixties: the 
anti-war movement, the civil rights 
movement, Yale-Harvard football 
scores, and the advent of coeducation. 

After President Nixon's trip to 
China in 1973, Downey ·was finally 
released. His campai~n brochures to-
day include a picture of him crossing 
the border into Hong Kong. 

Downey said he had no troubles ad-
justing to his new freedom, but he was 
perplexed by the national mood upon 
his return to the U.S. "I considered the 
despair and Joss of faith in the system, 
especially during Water~ate, somewhat 
preposterous after what I'd seen in 
China." He decided to become active 
in politics because he was concerned 
with this "loss of purpose." 

Before embarking on a political 
career, he went back to school for a law 
degree. After graduating from Har-
vard 
Law 
School 
and marrying 
Audrey Lee, a graduate student at 
Yale, Downey began to practice Jaw in 
Wallingford, 
commuting from 
his 
home in New Haven. 

In 1978, Downey made an attempt 
to run for Lieutenant Governor of 
Connecticut. Although he received few 
votes, he feels the lesson was a valuable 
introduction to politics. At the time, he 
also met Governor Ella Grasso, who 
was to become his political mentor. 
She appointed him to the chairman-
ship of the Public Utilities Control 
Authority (PUCA) in 1978. 

Downey learned a lot in a short 
period of time under Grasso's political 
tutelage. "She was a terrific lady. The 
Hong Kong Information Services 
most intelligent person I've ever met. 
And she knew more about politics than 
anybody. She realized it was a largely 
symbolic affair, the benevolent gover-
nor sweeping down on the disaster-
struck town, then sweeping right out 
again." 

Downey did a creditable job at 
PUCA, balancing the interests of con-
sumer groups and financially pressed 
utility companies, and managing to 
alienate neither group. He resigned 
last April in order to "explore" the 
possibilities of a Senate run. 

After making hi~ candidacy formal in 
October 1981, Downey began to cam-
paign for the Democratic nomination. 
But his inexperiel'lce on the campaign 
trail qmckly showed through. "I think 
I'm better qualified to be a U.S. 
Senator than I am to campaign for the 
Senate," he said. "The important thing 
is that I'm learning as I go along." 

Although he was well-known in 
political circles, his name carried little 
recognition among voters when he first 
announced. His wife Audrey jokes 
about his relations with the media: 
"Before .Jack used to run away from the


The Chinese let him receive 
outside magazines, In· 
eluding Time, Newsweek, 
and 
the 
Yale 
Alumni 
Magazine. 

cameras. Now he looks for them." 

Recently, 
Downey 
has begu-n 
to 
receive increased attention in the 
press, with front page stories in the 
Hartford Courant and the Boston Globe. 

He has had trouble finding the 
money for a statewide campaign. So 
far he has raised a paltry S80,000 
"without a really cohesive fund raising 
effort." This figure is half as much as 
what his better-connected rival in the 
Democratic race claims to h<we raised. 

Downey has targeted $750,000 as his 
goal to be raised by the summer mon-
ths, and he estimates that the entire 
campaign could cost as much as S2 
million. 

But 
Downey's 
most 
formidable 
challenge is overcoming the advantage 
that most political analysts have given 
Toby Moffett, 
the popular and 
charismatic Sixth District Connecticut 
Congressman who announced his can-
didacy for the Democratic nomination 
in December. Downey has until the 
nominating convention in May to win 
20 per cent of the state's delell'ates in 
•order to torce Moffett into a state 
primary. 

"Obviously, I think it's winnable," 
said Downey. "Moffett will fade in the 
·long haul and I think even Weiker, the 
Republican senator, is vulnerable." 

Prescott Bush, a Yale graduate and 
brother of the Vice President has 
agreed with Downey's assessment. In 
January, Bush declared his candidacy 
for the R epublican nomination against 
incumbent Weiker. 

Downey is counting on support from 
conservative 
Democrats hopefully 
alienated by what he calls 
"Moffett's 
musty, outmoded brand of politics." 

As a fiscal conservative and advocate 
of an aggressive 
foreign 
policy, 
Downey has begun to attack Moffett's 
liberal positions on social services and 
defense spending. Although initially 
cautious about taking stands on issues, 
Downey has become increasingly can-
did about his views. He is a strong sup-
porter of defense appropriations for· 
Israel and the establishment of a peace 
keeping force in the Sinai. He has also 


denounced Reaganomic cutbacks in 
social welfare as well as the betrayal of 
the Democratic Party by its more 
liberal members. 

He feels he has some knowledge of 
Connecticut's e nergy problems 
because of his work at PUCA. He has 
proposed several ways to solve the 
state's outrageous electricity rates, in-
cluding the use of Canadian hydro-
power. The basic goal, said Downey, is 
to reduce dependence on oil, whether 
by converting oil plants to coal, or in-
creasing the number of nuclear plants 
in the state. 

Downey's support has picked up 
around the state as his campaigning 
has improved and his recognition has 
increased. While he started out with 
strong support among New Haven 
Democrats 
including 
Mayor 
Ben 
DiLieto and Democratic Chairman 
Vincent Mauro, 
his list of en-
dorsements has grown to include state 
"House of Representatives Majority 
Leader J ohn Groppo, and Yale Law 
School Dean of Admissions Jim 
Thomas. These men all serve on the 
65-member statewide steering commit-
tee. 

Just how strong this support will 
prove in the eventual showdown with 
Moffett remains a question on which 
not even Downey will speculate. But 
whatever the eventual outcome of the 
race, Downey is a man who has 
learned that time is on his side. 


**Title: Hopes and concerns over cheap Isotopes**
**Author: Tim Misner**
**Page number(s): 34-35**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Research----
Hopes 
and concerns 
over cheap 
Isotopes 
Tim Misner 
Yale 
researchers 
Mahadevan 
Krishnan, J. L. 
Hirshfield and 
Michael Geva have recently made a 
breakthrough' which could lead to an 
inexpensive supply of isotopes. 
Ironically, although this technique has 
many beneficial applications in 
medicine and physics, it could produce 
the raw material for nuclear weapons. 
Radioactive isotopes of Thalium are 
used 
in a 
promising method of 
diagnosing heart conditions. Doctors 
can take pictures of the patient's heart 
with a special camera by injecting 
Thalium into the bloodstream. Many 
heart attack victims could be helped by 
this technique, but the high cost of pro-
ducing the Thalium has barred its 
widespread availability. 


An inexpensive supply of isotopes 
would also be a boon to nuclear 
physicists. 
Accelerator or "atom 
smasher" experiments, which help to 
uncover the basic particles and forces 
of nature, can easily consume upwards 
of $50,000 worth of isotopes per day. 
Because of the high cost, many ex-
periments of considerable scientific in-
terest are not conducted. 


But for some in the scientific world, 
separating isotopes means enriching 
uranium for use in nuclear weapons. 
"There was great excitement when the 
paper carne out. Some people worried 
about whether it should be classified or 
not," said Werner Wolf, Chairman of 
Engineering and Applied Sciences. In 
fact, the researchers themselves were 
worried that the Pentagon, which 
keeps a close watch on the papers 
published in scientific journals, would 
classify their 
work. 
Said Wolf, 
"Krishnan himself came and showed 
me something [his results). He worried 
that we might have trouble publishing, 
that someone might want to classify it." 
Said Krishnan, "Anyone who does 
anything in isotope separation has to 
deal with the specter of this nuclear 
business." 


Could 
their 
plasma centrifuge 
technique be developed to produce the 
raw material for nuclear weapons? "In 
principle we don't see why not," said 
Geva. But he was quick to point out 
that there were practical difficulties in 
using their technique for uranium. 
"For uranium it fthe experimental ap-
paratus] could not work because our 
magnetic field is too weak." 


Robert Wheeler, Chairman of Ap-
plied Physics, is doubtful that this 
technique will ever be used 
for 
uranium enrichment. "It takes an 
enormous amount of capital to develop 
a new technology," and this technology 
is still in the theoretical stages of 
development. 


The Department of 
Defense, which has already invested 
large sums in other approaches to 
uranium enrichment, is not looking for 
new ideas. 


Jack Warner, Director of Grants 
and Contracts, commented, "If some-
one gets into an area to enhance 
isotope separation, in a marketable, 
productive way, then it is very possible 
that DOD or the Department of 
Energy will say 'that's classified.' I 
recall some years ago- in isotope 
separation- they [DOD) said that the 
work the guy was doing was classified, 
~ 
and so he was obliged to put the books 
into a safety box." The researcher 
whose work was classified left Yale 
shortly after this happened. "You're 
jeopardizing a man's academic career 
if his work can't be subject to the 
scrutiny of his peers." 


In the case of Krishnan. Hirschfield 
and Geva, the work was published. It 
addresses the problem of pulling the 
heavier isotopes apart from the lighter 
ones. It has long been known that in a 
centrifuge the heavier isotopes move 
further to the outside. But since the in-
ternal structure of solids is not changed 
by centrifugal force, the researchers 
had to find some way of converting the 
metal to a fluid. The breakthrough 
came when they discovered an effective 
way of converting metal to plasma. 
Plasma is charged gas, like the air sur-
rounding a lightning bolt. Their major 
innovation was to use a laser to 
transform the metal. A laser beam is 
fired at a sample of metal, burning it 
ofT and changing it to a gas. Spun by 
electrical and magnetic forces the 
plasma spirals down towards the end of 
the tube, and the metal collects there,~ 
with the heaviest isotopes furthest from 
the center. 


Traditional methods of separating 


isotopes are costly 
and time-
consuming. At Oakridge National 
Laboratories, the major world supplier 
of isotopes, beams of ions form an in-
visible strainer that only allows a 
specific isotope to pass through. The 
Yale researchers' machine can handle 
1000 times as many isotopes at a time, 
though at present it cannot work as 
continously as the Oakridge machine. 


The 
Oakridge 
machine 
produces 
isotopes of 99 per cent purity, as com-
pared to 90 per cent for the Yale 
machine, but for most applications, 
high purity is not required. 


Krishnan stressed that much work 
remains to be done. "The difference is 
similar to that between Scbockley's first 
transistor and the integrated circuits in 
your pocket calculator," he said. From 
the initial investigations to production, 
a full-fledged research project would 
take three to six years. But despite all 
that remains to be done, the research-
ers have faith in the future of their 
technique. 


As for future research, Krishnan 
and Hirshfield hope to find a more 
Qlegant theoretical model for how the 
plasma behaves. "The theory we have 
now is rudimentary at best," said 
Krishnan. One outstanding question is 
why a partially ionized gas cannot be 
made to spin faster than a certain limit. 
Also, the researchers would like to ex-
periment with other ways to separate 
isotopes, as well as fine-tuning their 
present method. The research has been 
slowed by the tedious process of 
monitoring the isotopes' separation. 


Krishnan and Hirshfield, who both 
initiated the project five to six years 
ago, continue to work together. Geva, 
on the other hand, will probably finish 
writing his Ph.D. thesis on the plasma 
centrifuge results and leave 
the 
academic world for an industrial lab, 
where in all likelihood he will be earn-
ing 50-75 per cent more than his Ph.D. 
advisers. 


Researchers Krishnan, Geva and 
Hirshfield perceive a tension between 
the desire to do scientific work and the 
moral problems with some of its ap-
plications. Though this holds true for 
almost all the sciences, the uses of an 
applied scientist's work are more ap-
parent. Noted Krishnan, "You realize 
that isotopes can be used to make 
bombs or they can help to diagnose 
heart disease." 


• 
Tim MisMT is afreshman in Berlcef9.


**A Review of Modus Operandi**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Winks accurately presents detective 
fiction as a genre "that compels atten-
tion to every word," and uses this state-
ment in the best defense I have read of 
Agatha Christie's tour-de-force, The 
Murder of Roger Ackroyd. Winks returns 
the reader to the critical point in the 
text to demonstrate that Christie was 
definitely 'playing fair' in her resolu-
tion of the mystery. 


For the most part, Winks does not 
deal with classic detection and the 
master investigators. He is more in-
terested in contemporary detective fic-
tion, in which the emphasis has 
markedly shifted from presenting and 
resolving an intricate puzzle to depic-
tion of human nature within the 
framework of the investigation of a 
crime. Anyone who has, like myself, 
dismissed spy fiction without fair trial, 
will likely be inclined to alter his judge-
ment after reading Winks. He says spy 
fiction is founded upon the seeming 
"trivia of detail; "The unobserved detail 
is the important detail." The spy moves 
alone, opposed by the enemy and his 
natural allies. Landscape is crucial to a 
good spy novel as "spy fiction is 
cinematic, visual, the sense of place 
providing a good measure of the sense 
of menace." Winks sensibly takes to 
task those indolent thriller-writers who 
fail to accurately research the era or 
locale they depict. The accent on am-
biguity and uncertainty in contem-
porary society is picked up by Winks: 
"The modern spy thriller is not chess, 
coldly rational, with values attached to 
each participant, for we do not know 
the values." The 
new game 
is 
backgammon, where the roll of the 
dice is neutral and "the testing is in the 
way one plays the roll." 


For Winks, detective fiction pro-
vides insights into much more than the 
operation of a criminal investigation. 
He would place Dorothy Sayers' Lord 
Peter Wimsey mystery Gaudy Night 
"on the shelf of women's liberationist 
literature." Sayers becomes not a 
mystery writer, but "a highly skilled 
novelist of manners in an academic set-
~ng" who chooses the '"device of the 
mystery because she enjoys it." Winks 
actually refers to contemporary 
mystery writer Amanda Cross in the 
above quotation but it is clear he 
means to include the earlier author in 
the category of a skilled novelist using 
the mystery to present "one of the 
angriest, most chilling denunciations 
of a university utterly dominated by 
men." 


Winks 1s 
occasionally 
~ilty of 
deviating from his stated mtention. 
Gaudy Night may provide him with an 
opening into women's liberation (as 
elsewhere 
The 
Ox-Bow 
Incident 
presented a young Winks with his first 
exposure to injustice), but to classify it 
as a novel of liberation masquerading 
as a mystery rather than a mystery 
novel that by virtue of its setting must 
perforce deal with the position of 
female academics is, to me, a mistake. 


In one other place, Winks makes too 
broad a claim "about education and 
family and perhaps America" based on 
his own realization that he did not have 
to like "great" art simply because it had 
been labeled "great" by others. 


Winks narrowly treads the line be-
tween seriousness and mock-seri-
ousness, but the constant presence of 
wit and good humor make Modus 
Operandi a pleasant diversion and keeps 
those assertions most open to challenge 
nicely cushioned. 


• 
Lenny Picker, a Junior in Berkeley, is cur-
rently working on a mystery novel set at Yale. 


**A Review of Agon**
**Author: Elizabeth Wahl**
**Page number(s): 38-39**

Reading Harold Bloom's Agon for the 
first time gives one the peculiar and 
rather exhausting sensation of treading 
water in a bottomless sea. And then 
suddenly, when it seems as if the waves 
are going to close over one's head, the 
author draws his ideas together tightly 
in a net that saves the reader from 
drowning in the wash of his inter-
pretive forays. Agon is a unique work of 
literary theory, combining elements of 
philosophy, 
religion, and psycho-
analysis, as well as the close reading of 
a text, traditionally associated with 
literary criticism. 


Following A Map of Misruuiing, the 
book develops a theory of revisionism, 
a "reseeing" of literary works from one 
man's unusual and perceptive vision. 
Bloom sets th e background for this vi-
sion against the history of the gnostic 
tradition 
which 
he defmes as a 
knowledge of what is oldest in oneself, 
an "agon" or contest between a rational 
or intellectual interpretation of an idea 
and a 
more emotional, instinctive 
response to it. He defends the mode of 
criticism which he terms "misprision" 
or a strong "misreading" of a text, in 
his own case to ask of a text "what is it 
good for? What can it do for me? What 
can I make it mean?" H e writes, 
"American criticism 
ought to 
be 
outrageous and pragmatic." The con-
clusions drawn in Agon are both. 


Bloom has chosen to consider a wide 
variety of authors from Valentinius to 
Emerson to Freud as well as the 
literary genre of fantasy and what he 
calls the Sublime in mOdern literature. 
Such a smorgasbord of topics might 
appear to be rather farflung for any 
series of critical discussion to do them 
justice, but Bloom maintains a sense of 
coherence by the steadiness of his tone 
and constancy to his gnostic mode of 
interpretation. 


His discussions of Emerson and 
Whitman are his most successful. Both 
serve as frequent sources of quotation, 
their works seeming to embody for 
Bloom the eloquent expression of a 
Gnosis akin to his own. Both Emerson 
Harold Bloom 
Julia O'Neill/The New Journal ... 
and Whitman disavow Western liter-
ary tradition for a more personal self-
knowledge. Thus Emerson saw Ameri-
can poetry taking on the tremendous 
task of displacing Shakespeare which 
Bloom observes is the "doomed enter-
prise that shadows Moby Die/c. • And 
Bloom finds in Whitman an embodi-
ment of this peculiarly American poetic 
defiance. He executes a marvellous 
close-reading of Whitman's "Song of 
Myself," carefully and meticulously ex-
amining the intricacies and implica-
tions of each cited passage. 


Having thus connected Emerson 
and Whitman in the context of the 
development of an American poetic 
voice, Bloom abruptly changes pace by 
giving his own theory of fantasy in 
literature. This is his stated intent, but 
the chapter is just as much a defense of 
one of the author's favorite works of 
this genre, David Linsey's A Voyage to . 
Arcturus. It is difficult to separate 
Bloom's theory of fantasy from all the 
excess literary jargon surrounding it• 
but he seems to imply that fantasy as a 
literary form is structurally flawed; 
ultimately it cannot describe the unreat 
in terms that transcend literary con-
vention. 


J n choosing to illustrate this view 
with a book as little-known as Voyage to 
Arcturus, Bloom does the reader a 
disservice. By the time he has finished 
giving the names of the major 
characters and places 
and their 
allegorical meanings, the reader is so 
confused that he has lost sight of the 
point Bloom is trying to make. 


Fortunately, the concluding chap-
ters of Agon return their attention to a 
consideration of individual authors 
and how they are connected, begin-
ning with a short but convincing study 
of Wallace Stevens. This is Bloom at 
his critical best, dissecting a text not 
with surgical detachment, but with an 
intense spiritual love of language as 
well as content. Bloom is a writer and 
critic of no small subtlety and complex-
ity. In many instances, his ideas are 
almost inaccessible, especially when he 
retreats behind a barrier of obscure 
literary references. Yet he seldom loses 
• sight of his stated purpose in any 
meditation. Whether one agrees with 
his observations or takes exception to 
the means by which he draws his con-
clusions, one cannot help but be 
fascinated by his unique method of 
"reseeing" a text and his intense per-
sonal 
involvement 
m 
the act of 
criticism. 


Elizabeth Wahl, a freshman in Timothy 
Dwight, has workedfor Monthly Detroit 
magazine. 
new 
this fall-


Power 
and Politics 
THE PURPOSES OF AMERICAN POWER 
An Essay on National Security 
Robert W. Tucker, The Johns Hopluns University 
We have reached a major turning potnt 10 American fore1gn policy; a penod of 
withdrawal and of pass•vity has come to an end. Tucker portrays the visible 
decline of Amencan power and JXISitlon as having led to a greater dissatisfaction 
over policy than we have expenenced tn a decade. Notes. b1hliography. 
CONTENTS: 1. A Cntical juncture. 2. America 10 Declme: The 1970s. 3. The 
S1gnificance of the Present Debate. 4. The Arms Balance and the Pers•an Gulf. 
5. The Two Contamments: An Argument Retraced. 
200 pp. September 1981 
$12.00 (Cloth) ISBN 0-03-059974-1 
$5.95 (Student Edmon) ISBN 0-03-059976-8 
A LEHRMAN INSTITUTE BOOK 
CRITICAL ACCLAIM FOR ROBERT W TUCKER'S 
PREVIOUS BOOKS 
The Radical Left and American Foreign Policy 
"Tucker, as tough·mmded a ranon-'ll>t a> th~ come. welli(h> the com•ennonal 
and radiCal v1ewpmnts agatn>t each lither m hnii.ant and relentlessly l>hJectl\'e 
style ... An extremely •miXlrtant hc."'>k:' 
Puhluh~rs Wiikl:'· 
The New Isolationism 
"A cogenr challenge. radical yet :,(>her. tu the recent and current l>rthoJoxy ol 
American fore1gn policy:' 
Swnk:' Hujfnwnn 
The Inequality of Nations 
"Professor Tucker's luc1d, f(lrceful. um,nhodux and lmpl>rtant arli(Ument should 
continue the debates engendered by h1s earher essays on th•~ suhJect. Tl1 try to 
mduce greater equahry mto international relations. the auth~>r ms1sts. ~· •II he 
quiXOtiC and counterproductive:· 
F(Jwgn Affam 
PaA£GUl ruaUSHUS 
521 Fifth Avenue 
New York. New York 10175 
39 



**Title: The Co-op Book Department Helps You FIND THE BOOK YOU NEED**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The Co-op Book Department Helps You 
FIND THE BOOK YOU NEED 
With these Special Customer Services: 
7 DAY SEARCH SERVICE 
Many popular general titles that are not in 
stock can be obtained in 7 to 10 days or less. 
No fees or charges_ Ask at the Book 
Information desk. 

SPECIAL ORDERS 
Direct to the publisher for books otherwise 
unobtainable. Allow 3-6 weeks; prepayment 
required; postage charge added. Ask at the 
Special Order Desk. 

OUT-OF-PRINT SEARCH SERVICE 
If a copy is located, the price is quoted 
first-there is no obligation to buy. Ask at 
Book Information or the Special Order Desk. 

FOREIGN BOOKS 
For titles in French, German, and Spanish 
that are not in stock, ask at the Europa Desk. 

MAILING & GIFT WRAPPING 
Shipment by UPS or parcel post. Ask at the 
Service Desk. 

