Publication date: February 2021
Volume: 53
Issue number: 4

**MASTHEAD**
- Editors-In-Chief: Helena Lyng-Olsen, Candice Wang
- Executive Editor: Elena DeBre
- Managing Editor: Hailey Andrews
- Associate Editors: Jack Delaney, Alexandra Galloway, Zachary Groz, Madison Hahamy, Meera Rothman, Nicholas Ruiz-Huidobro Magdits
- Senior Editors: Beasie Goddu, Eli Mennerick, Elliot Wailoo
- Members and Directors: Emily Bazelon, Peter Cooper, Jonathan Dach, Kathrin Lassila, Eric Rutkow, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, Fred Strebeigh, Aliyya Swaby
- Advisors: Neela Banerjee, Richard Bradley, Susan Braudy, Lincoln Caplan, Jay Carney, Andy Court, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Susan Dominus, David Greenberg, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Laura Pappano, Jennifer Pitts, Julia Preston, Lauren Rawbin, David Slifka, John Swansburg, Anya Kamenetz, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Nicole Allan, Margaret Bauer, Mark Badger and Laura Heymann, Susan Braudy, Julia Calagiovanni, Elisha Cooper, Haley Cohen, Peter Cooper, Andy Court, The Elizabethan Club, Leslie Dach, David Freeman and Judith Gingold, Paul Haigney and Tracey Roberts, Bob Lamm, James Liberman, Alka Mansukhani, Benjamin Mueller, Sophia Nguyen, Valerie Nierenberg, Morris Panner, Jennifer Pitts, R. Anthony Reese, Eric Rutkow, Lainie Rutkow, Laura Saavedra and David Buckley, Anne-Marie Slaughter, Elizabeth Sledge, Caroline Smith, Gabriel Snyder, Elizabeth Steig, Aliyya Swaby, John Jeremiah Sullivan, Daphne and David Sydney, Kristian and Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Townsend Wilson, Daniel Yergin, William Yuen
- Copy Editors: Nicole Dirks, Anna Fleming, Ella Goldblum
- Creative Director: Meher Hans
- Design Editors: Brian Chang, Natasha Gaither, Rebecca Goldberg, Annli Nakayama
- Illustrators: Alice Mao, Cindy Ren, Sydney Zoehrer


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- HIDDEN WORLD - Jack Delaney
- ELM CITY, FOOD CITY - Renee Ong
- SEVER - Amelia Davidson
- THE NANNY DIARIES - Anya Ramzi
- ANTI-PASSION - Lily Dodd
- JOCKEY’S RIDGE STATE PARK - Nimran Shergill
- SUNFLOWERS - Auguste White
- THE SANDAL AND THE STAR - Charlotte Wakefield
- BACKSPACES - Sanya Nair
- REOPENING, RESTRICTED - Nicole Dirks
- THE CAMPAIGN TO CONVINCE - Kaylee Walsh
- RUNNING AS... - Zachary Groz
-  - Meera Rothman


**Title:  Dear readers,**
**Author: Candice & Helena**
**Page number(s): 2**

What a whirlwind. Somehow an entire year has passed, made up with 365 days of blurry Zoom calls with 
talented writers, remote production weekends that spanned continents, and sleepless nights of editing. We’ve 
cherished every moment with The New Journal, and now we leave you with our final issue at the tail end of 
TNJ’s 2020-2021 managing board. 

We end with some words from our beloved editors:

Hailey Andrews—TNJ was my initial bridge into New Haven and the community that kept me tethered, both 
pre-COVID and during remote instruction. 

Elena DeBre—Writing and editing longform can be tough! But with the support, friendship, and community of 
TNJ, I felt able to take the plunge. So grateful I did. 

Meera Rothman—Editing with TNJ and joining such a kind, vibrant writing community has been one of the 
highlights of my senior year. 

Zachary Groz—In this year of separation, TNJ’s community of writers and friends kept me feeling connected to 
Yale and New Haven. 

Madison Hahamy—Working with TNJ has simply been the best. The best people, the best writing, the best 
experience. So thankful for this wonderful publication!! 

Alexandra Galloway—I’m so happy to have built friendships with the gifted writers and editors who have made 
TNJ such a wonderful community, even despite the challenges of a global pandemic. 

Nicholas Ruiz-Huidobro Magdits—My favorite thing about TNJ is that we are one of the few groups that 
actively encourages students to get to know our city! 

Jack Delaney—In a rough year, TNJ has been a source of warmth and connection for both myself and the Yale 
and New Haven community at large—thank you!

As always, enjoy reading, and stay warm.

Yours,
Candice & Helena


**Title: essay: HIDDEN WORLD**
**Author: Jack Delaney**
**Page number(s): 4**



**Title: photography (also 21, 37)**
**Author: Renee Ong**
**Page number(s): 7**



**Title: snapshot: ELM CITY, FOOD CITY**
**Author: Amelia Davidson**
**Page number(s): 8**



**Title: essay: SEVER**
**Author: Anya Ramzi**
**Page number(s): 11**



**Title: essay: THE NANNY DIARIES**
**Author: Lily Dodd**
**Page number(s): 16**



**Title: poem: ANTI-PASSION**
**Author: Nimran Shergill**
**Page number(s): 20**



**Title: poem: JOCKEY’S RIDGE STATE PARK**
**Author: Auguste White**
**Page number(s): 22**



**Title: poem: SUNFLOWERS**
**Author: Charlotte Wakefield**
**Page number(s): 23**



**Title: essay: THE SANDAL AND THE STAR**
**Author: Sanya Nair**
**Page number(s): 24**



**Title: creative: BACKSPACES**
**Author: Nicole Dirks**
**Page number(s): 28**



**Title: critical angle: REOPENING, RESTRICTED**
**Author: Kaylee Walsh**
**Page number(s): 33**



**Title: critical angle: THE CAMPAIGN TO CONVINCE**
**Author: Zachary Groz**
**Page number(s): 38**



**Title: essay: RUNNING AS...**
**Author: Meera Rothman**
**Page number(s): 42**



**Title: Hidden World**
**Author: Jack Delaney**
**Page number(s): 4-6**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
When Jack returned to New Haven,
 he noticed the squirrels.
E S S AY
JACK DELANEY
Hidden
World
Illustration by Sydney Zoehrer


Muk-muk. SKrEE! Ch ch ch ch!
The New York hardwiring kicked in; 
my muscles tensed. Slowly, with a sense of 
doom, I craned my neck to see not one, but 
three of their frantic bodies shivering above me 
on a branch. SKree! SKREE! Squirrels! 
I had reason to fear. Last December, a spate 
of squirrel attacks tore through the neighbor-
hood of Rego Park in Queens. One survivor, 
emerging from bloodstained snow, compared 
the ordeal to an MMA cage match. Another 
said her assailant would wait atop the mail-
box to harass her husband. And the threat goes 
beyond NYC—these terrorists’ reach is nation-
wide. Squirrels remain the top cause of power 
outages across America, despite utilities’ efforts 
to prevent them from gnawing into substations.
Luckily for me, I was in East Rock, and this 
particular trio was wracked by infighting. Two 
of them skittered from limb to limb, nipping 
and twisting, all the while screaming epithets 
at each other. The third ambled about placidly, 
only darting away when one of the combatants 
tried to mate with her. Occasionally their chat-
ter was punctuated by the THWUMP of snow 
tumbling from nearby roofs, or by the elm’s 
pained groan as it weathered their acrobatics. 
The battle stopped abruptly. One male 
hopped about, the female dozed, but the other 
male came near to her and, inhaling deeply, 
began to sing. Uooo. Uoooooo. My girlfriend 
Saachi and I sat down in a snowdrift to listen. 
I had never noticed how expressive their voices 
are—an eclectic mix of whines, chirps, chir-
rups, and chatters. And after a while their move-
ments, seemingly manic, began to feel like part 
of a ‘squirrel time’ with its own internal logic. 
My bottom burned from the cold. Above the 
meshed branches, a snowy owl was cutting gen-
erous circles in the blue sky. Sun on puddles. 
French fry smells from Archie Moore’s. Melt-
ing icicles sent rivulets running to the base of 
the elm, and glancing up I realized the squirrels 
had noticed me. Ch ch! Ch Ch! Two told me 
off heatedly, but as a furry rump edged out of a 
burl I could also make out, just barely, the faint 
ee of small childlike voices.

The pandemic has made human connec-
tions hard to sustain, but it’s also revealed how many 
nonhuman beings I had never noticed. Bugs, for 
instance: an average house, no matter how clean, 
is home to about 100 arthropod species. People 
don’t often think of their houses as ecosystems, 
yet as with any other there’s an intricate interplay 
between creatures of wildly different timescales 
and needs. That’s inconvenient for us humans, 
for whom ownership means sole rights—insects 
threaten the ideal of the home as a sterile place 
beyond nature. Yet leaning into that interconnec-
tion, wherever we go, can make us more empa-
thetic (and less lonely).

One night in fall, done with problem sets, I 
burst into the backyard. I cycled through happy 
dances—Erratic Hip Swing, Napoleon Dynamite, 
the Wriggle. The post-rain ground gave a moist 
squidge with each leap. Squip. Squidge. Halfway 
through my Devendra Banhart tribute dance, how-
ever, it struck me that concrete backyards aren’t 
typically squidgy. Uh oh. Sure enough, in the light 
of my phone flashlight the ground was littered 
with splattered slugs, more than a dozen of them, 
their innards glimmering Pollockly throughout the 
yard. It was their dinnertime; they had come out at 
night to eat fallen leaves and curled bugs.

It might seem ridiculous to cry over spilt slugs. 
But it struck me that my anthropocentrism wasn’t 
far from that of companies devastating the environ-
ment on a larger scale. If the damage I caused was 
less critical, it was because my feet were smaller. 
The mindset is the same: humans are alone in the 
world. “Nature,” out there, is separate from daily 
life. It’s a place to go to relax; a resource bank; 
a loose assortment of trees being chopped and 
re-planted, rivers toxified and cleaned, the whole 
earth progressing and regressing in linear lurches.

Our abuse of the planet poses a material threat 
to society and is inextricably tied to institutional 
racism and classicism. What’s at risk isn’t merely 
the future of national parks, but the ability of peo-
ple today to survive and lead healthy lives, espe-
cially BIPOC and low-income communities. And 
I’ve found that disregard for one’s surroundings, 
which enables their destruction, is also simply a 
recipe for unhappiness.

When I moved back to New Haven in January, 
I was worried it would be depressing. Last winter’s 
skies were usually gray, and I was now living far 
from campus in East Rock. But this year, spend-
ing most of the days with Saachi, things were 
different. Streets lined with seemingly-inert trees 
became a rich network of nutrient exchange with 
fungi; mother trees fed their saplings sugar, and 
young sprouts buttressed wandering wrens. A spi-
der crawled into the sink. The river froze over, and 
one night a Great Blue Heron rustled past me on 
the bridge. Crescent mushrooms poked out from 
the snow. Squirrels ran the telephone cables. 
One morning, the two of us woke up at 6 a.m. to 
drive to Hammonasset Beach State Park. It’s teem-
ing with wildlife; its sprawling salt marsh produces 
more biomass than a rainforest each year, and I was 
excited to spot some of its incredible birds. We took 
the highway for about half an hour, then pulled up 
to the entrance only to confront a roadblock and 
an imposing truck presiding over the passageway. 
I stepped out. I was wearing pants that stopped 
at my shins, and a green shirt embroidered with 
monsters. A park ranger exited the van and yawned, 
squinting at me. “You with the National Guard?” 
As it turned out, we were over an hour early. 
We drove around aimlessly to kill time, until a cop 
pulled us over because we seemed lost. So we sat 
opposite to the ranger as the sun rose. Finally, the 
gates opened and we rushed through, our excite-
ment unabated. We parked at the point and ran 
out to explore.

It was three degrees Fahrenheit. That was fine 
when I had ducked out for thirty seconds, but 
within five minutes our toes were in excruciating 
pain. The beach was deserted. A single seagull 
huddled by the toilets, skeptical. We waded into 
the grasses and tried to appreciate the brilliant sea, 
only it was much too cold for appreciating any-
thing. Shhh-phhh. The marsh laughed at us airily. 
We were fading fast, so we ran back to the car—the 
engine was frozen up. Panic. There was no heat, 
no one around, it was a rental car. Our breath 
came out in plumes. Miraculously, the car eventu-
ally started on the fifth try; we fled Hammonasset 
for the safety of home.

I collapsed on the couch when I got home, 
drained. What about being out in nature? I got up 
to lower the shades… and came face-to-face with 
a robin. It was fat and plain-looking, the squirrel 
of birds. It hopped about the dogwood tree right 
outside the window, nibbling on berries and pooping indiscriminately. But its head tilted curiously 
when I waved, and it didn’t take off. The next 
day it was back, and the next after that too. Most 
days now, it’s there outside my window—maybe it 
always was—if I remember to look.
– Jack Delaney is a sophomore in Pierson 
College and an Associate Editor.



**Title: FOOD CITY**
**Author: AMELIA DAVIDSON**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
W
hen I’m missing New Haven, my mind turns 
to late-night pizza and ramen, or chai lattes 
hurriedly consumed in the cold. In my nostalgia, my 
thoughts linger on the spaces that provide such deli-
cacies—the late-night fluorescent glow of Est Est Est 
punctuated by laughing students, or the ice-cold air that 
hits my face as I struggle with the door of the York Street 
Blue State, chaider in tow. But recently, I realized with 
some alarm that I was conjuring up places and situa-
tions that no longer exist. Sitting in my childhood bed-
room, where I have spent the duration of the pandemic, 
I often think about sipping tea in Jojo’s Coffee, even as 
307 miles away, the corner of Chapel and Park Street 
stands vacant. 

The pandemic has scarred the restaurant scene in 
New Haven, prompting a turnover unlike any other 
in the last few decades. Around 600 restaurants have 
closed in Connecticut since March of last year, and 
New Haven, in particular, has witnessed the closings of 
city favorites such as Jojo’s and Duc’s Place. However, 
new restaurants such as Ahava Vegan and Haven Hot 
Chicken have risen, sometimes in the same storefronts. 
The industry itself has been transformed, successful 
restaurants shifting their focus to takeout and delivery, 
rather than in-person dining. When the pandemic ends, 
and the city’s streets revive, New Haven residents will 
find a vastly different food scene than existed in Febru-
ary 2020. 

One restaurant in particular encapsulates the chaos 
the industry has witnessed over the last few months. 
Next Door opened in 2017 at 175 Humphrey Street, in 
a standalone brick building in the shadow of Highway 
91 that once housed a prohibition-era speakeasy. The 
restaurant was founded by three veterans of the New 
Haven food scene, one of whom, Doug Coffin, owns 
a pizza catering business that operates just down the 
street—hence the name Next Door. Coffin described 
the restaurant to me as a combination of pizzeria and 
upscale dining locale, with chef Robin Bodak con-
stantly experimenting with innovative dishes and craft 
beer to go along with no-fuss pizza. 

When Next Door closed in August due to the pan-
demic-related financial pressures, Coffin expanded his 
successful catering business—Big Green Truck Pizza—
into the space at 175 Humphrey. 

During one of Coffin’s late-night shifts at Big Green 
Truck Takeout, Coffin recalled to me over the shouts 
of his cooking staff in the background how he got his 
start in the New Haven food scene, and its evolution 
in recent years. He spoke with a knowledge that could 
only come with decades of experience in New Haven 
restaurants, referencing local restaurant owners and 
chefs by their first names.“The pandemic is rewriting 
the restaurant scene,” he told me, his voice rising over 
the din around him. “I’m glad that people are paying 
attention.” 

Coffin attended Yale College in the early 1970s, but 
dropped out because he wanted to be a part of the social 
movements that had characterized much of the late 
’60s. Laughing, he told me that by the time he arrived 
on the scene, the only social-justice oriented movement 
he could find in New Haven was the New Haven food 
co-op, a community organizing project which provided 
residents with healthy, cheap food. So that is where 
Coffin went. The co-op eventually went bankrupt, but 
Coffin decided to stay in the culinary business. After 
striking out a number of times, he developed a catering 
business that morphed into Big Green Truck Pizza.
For the past 15 years, Big Green Truck Pizza has 
catered all over Connecticut in its fleet of—you guessed 
it—big green trucks, which double as travelling pizze-
rias outfitted with wood-fired brick ovens. During the 
pandemic, the business lost around half of its sales, no 
longer able to cater large gatherings or school events. 



**Title: Big Green Truck Pizza and the Pandemic**
**Author: Amelia Davidson**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
However, because Coffin already owned all 
the trucks and the Humphrey street staging loca-
tion, he continued the operation even as revenue 
dropped significantly. 

When Big Green Truck Pizza expanded into 175 
Humphrey, it began offering takeout from a cen-
tral location for the first time, instead of relying on 
the usual trucks for catering. This aligns with the 
broader trends in New Haven’s pandemic restau-
rant industry, which increasingly favors takeout and 
delivery. So while Next Door could not sustain its 
in-person dining, Big Green Truck Takeout could 
take off in the exact same space. 

As for whether these trends will continue post-pan-
demic? “I think the best analogy I can come up with 
is that if the restaurant world was a snow globe, it’s 
suddenly been shaken up,” Coffin said. “And we’re 
waiting to sort of see how it’s going to settle out. All 
of us are trying to figure out what particular format 
is going to work for us.”

New restaurants have been opening their doors in 
the shadow of a decimated restaurant industry, thriv-
ing on the low overhead costs of takeout and deliv-
ery. Ever since Covid-19 changed social norms such 
that more restaurants can now survive exclusively as 
takeout or delivery locations, it has been easier for 
some restaurants to start up during the pandemic. At 
least six new restaurants have opened in New Haven 
during the pandemic—Crafted by Hand Cafe, 
Vegan Ahava, Edible Couture, Haven Hot Chicken, 
SaladCraft Co. and L’épicerie Choupette—most of 
whom remain centered around takeout and delivery 
even as Connecticut has allowed up to 50 percent 
indoor dining capacity. 

Especially during this pandemic-induced deliv-
ery surge, many New Haven restaurants have out-
sourced food delivery to apps such as UberEats, 
Grubhub, or DoorDash. Coffin reached out to me 
unprompted one evening to discuss the rise of these 
delivery apps, all of which have become massive 
Silicone Valley conglomerates. As a self-described 
“pizza guy,” Coffin has been shocked at the apps’ 
success, as “back in the day” New Haven pizza 
restaurants had to do delivery for free to maintain 
their customer base. The apps don’t just charge 
customers—they also charge restaurants large fees, 
– Amelia Davidson is a first year 
in Pauli Murray College.
sometimes up to 30 percent per order, which fur-
ther lowers restaurants’ profit margins in already try-
ing times. Beyond financial pressures, Coffin feels 
that the prevalence of these apps undercuts the 
small-town feel of a thriving local restaurant scene.

I have long admired the stretches of local restau-
rants just blocks from campus; even perched Pauli 
Murray College pre-pandemic, I frequently took the 
mile-long trek to the nearest restaurants, and only 
ever opened my Snackpass app late at night. A city 
full to the brim with restaurants exclusively doing 
takeout and delivery, streets abuzz with UberEats 
and DoorDash drivers, is hard to imagine. But New 
Haven is currently tipping toward that new reality.

175 Humphrey Street shows that physical loca-
tions can serve as a testament to the food that has 
been lost in the pandemic, and the food that has 
been found. But until Coffin’s proverbial snowglobe 
begins to settle, we will not know the lasting effects 
of the new takeout and delivery phenomenon. It 
is possible that physical locales will no longer be 
a part of the local restaurant scene at all, with the 
Jojo’ses and Next Doors of the city being replaced 
by restaurants focused on getting food out the door, 
rather than customers in the door. 

Coffin is keeping his options open. Although his 
co-founders have pulled out of the operation, Next 
Door still exists as a corporate shell, and Coffin is 
considering reopening post-pandemic. His decision 
may ultimately be reflective of what is to come—a 
reversion to the New Haven food scene of February 
2020, a post-pandemic reinvention of New Haven 
local dining, or something in between. 

The future of the restaurant industry is uncertain 
right now, but some losses are clear, and near to 
the heart—I will still mourn Jojo’s ginger tea every 
time I walk past the empty Chapel Street storefront. 
Out of the closures and openings and reinventions 
and adaptations will come a landscape radically 
changed from when I departed the city in March 
2020. And when I return to New Haven in August, 
I might just come across a new dining experience to 
miss while I am away. 


<br>

**Title: Sever**
**Author: Anya Ramzi**
**Page number(s): 11-12**

M
y mother’s frown is brittle. Her hovering is 
making the hairstylist nervous, I can tell. She 
offers my mother a coffee in another room. My 
mother’s eyes track the tiny silver scissors, the siz-
zling straightener, and the array of thickly-scented 
styling products. Polite and cool, my mother says, 
“No, thank you.”

“Mom doesn’t approve, then?” the hairstyl-
ist jests, her voice a little high-pitched. But the 
joke falls flat in the strained silence between us. 
“Right,” she mutters, shaking her head and grab-
bing the straightener. She begins to chatter as 
she splits my hair into sections and scorches each 
into obedience. I can feel her relax into her rou-
tine: her deft, thin fingers pulling and pinching 
and burning. She talks about her two dogs, the 
week of pleasant weather we’ve been having, and 
how much she loves the Shake Shack down the 
street. I appreciate the effort. She must sense the 
anxiety building in me, climbing my spine and 
seizing my shoulders, leaving me wide-eyed and 
frozen in the mirror. In the reflection, I watch 
as the hairstylist rifles through a drawer, push-
ing a pair of scissors aside in favor of picking up 
a pile of hairbands. It is easier to focus on her 
actions (quick, loud, sure). It is easier not to look 
at myself. 

When she ties the first hairband, I swallow. Her 
hands, pale and manicured, lack the warmth of 
my mother’s. They braid with efficiency and pre-
cision, tying the second band an inch from the 
ends of my hair. “Cutting two feet of hair!” she 
exclaims. “That’s incredible.”
        	 “Yeah,” I say awkwardly. “Thanks.”

“You ready?”

I nod, and the world narrows down to the 
chink-squeak-chink of the scissors sawing their 
way through my braid. I can see my own eyes 
widen in the mirror. There’s a last bit of resis-
tance, and then—then—

My shortened hair springs free from where 
the bands have been severed, swishing around 
my shoulders. My god! It’s so light! A part of me 
squeals. I feel vaguely dizzy, grinning. My mother 
is saying something—the hairstylist is passing 
her my cut braid, now a limp, dead thing, to be 
wrapped in plastic and donated—but all I can 
hear is a faint buzzing in my ears.

The hairstylist continues to press and snip and 
pull. I watch it all in the mirror, the tension leak-
ing out of me, leaving a pleasant, tipsy sensation. 
When she is finished, I have been born anew. I 
remove the towel from my shoulders. I cannot 
stop smiling. Somewhere beside me, my mother 
is watching intently. Her hands grasp the bag now 
weighed down with my braid. She is bristling 
Sever
A personal essay by Anya Ramzi
Illustration by Cindy Ren

with disapproval.

“Well?” the hairstylist asks. “What do you 
think?”

And then, before the idea can be clamped 
down or tempered, I think: I look American, now.
 

 In elementary school, letting my hair down is 
more of an event than an action. I call it “open-
ing my hair”—the result of learning English from 
two Pakistani immigrants. My mother forbids me 
from undoing my braid in class for fear of tan-
gles and catastrophe, but every once in a while, 
when I feel particularly rebellious, I pull off the 
hairband and let my curls dangle down to my 
knees. Some of my classmates stare and giggle. 
Others do a double-take, unable to recognize me 
with wavy blackness framing my face. Others still 
frown or grimace, or ask, out of genuine curiosity, 
“But why?” and “Will you ever cut it?”  

As a child, my answer is always no. My friends 
make bets on how long my braid will be by my 
wedding day. I explain to one of my third-grade 
classmates, with a little too much honesty, “I 
won’t be pretty without my hair. It’s what people 
know me for.” In the winters, when I visit Paki-
stan, my aunts praise my braid. My younger cous-
ins watch with rapt attention as my mother care-
fully interweaves the locks, coating each section 
with coconut oil and tenderness.  

In Pakistan and India, hair has long been a 
point of pride for women. My mother and my 
mother’s mother and my mother’s mother’s 
mother all carried the same black braid down 
their backs, the same proud tilt to their shoul-
ders. In ancient Indian sculptures and paintings, 
the women’s hair is styled in draping loops and 
piled knots, embellished with jewels and tiaras. 
In everyday life, scholars believe, coiffures were 
used to differentiate amongst social classes. In 
religion, gods were distinguished by their individ-
ual hairstyles: Shiva’s jata. Lord Krishna’s curls.

Today, the pressure on women in the Indian 
subcontinent to keep their hair long is so strong 
that styles above the shoulders are considered rad-
ical. Models are fired for cutting their hair. Bobs 
are seen as unprofessional. Pixies and buzzcuts 
are unheard of. Women who choose to wear 
their hair short do so knowing that they are an 
exception to the norm: a tiny, rallying rebellion. I 
think of my mother’s disapproval, of my own ela-
tion. I think of all the times my mother told me, 
you’ll regret it; I think of her running her hands 
through my hair, helping me cover it in thick, 
wet mehndi, praising its tint of red in the sun. 
 I try to convince myself that I am defiant.

By the end of middle school, though, I am 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Anya Razmi**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 13
tired. The stares—the smiles—the questions—
the attention in which I had once basked begins 
to feel draining. I want to be one of those girls 
who wears her hair down every day, soft and 
brushing her shoulders. I have stopped visiting 
Pakistan. It matters less and less that my family 
would be disappointed if I returned with my braid 
chopped off. I spend six months watching “Cut-
ting Off My Long Hair!” videos on YouTube, and 
another six convincing my mother to let me go 
through with the cut. I run through my list of rea-
sons: I’m tired of the inconveniences of long hair. 
I’m entering high school next year. I want to feel 
fresh and older and new.

When my elder sister finds out about my deci-
sion, she teases me: “What?” she exclaims. “But 
you’re a good, Pakistani girl!” I bristle. It is only 
years later that I realize it is not the good I object 
to. It is the Pakistani.

When I am seventeen, my Indian friend, who 
has pale skin and pale eyes and shoulder-length, 
layered hair, is complimented for her beauty. 
I watch her smile and shake her head and feel 
something writhe inside of me. I wish it were 
jealousy. Instead it is a deep, rolling rage, one 
that I tuck in and smother. In my head, I imagine 
all the girls tanning and bleaching and cutting 
and dying, vying for the same sort of attention. 
My friend confesses to me that in India, it is only 
her skin that is complimented. For her aunts and 
uncles, her hair is short enough to be shameful.

Afterward, I think about the Femina Miss India 
2019 pageant pictures and the Twitter storm criti-
cizing them: all the women chosen look the same. 
One tweet rants, “They all have the same hair, 
and the SAME SKIN COLOUR, and I’m going 
to hazard a guess that their heights and vital stats 
will also be similar.” I look at the contestants. I 
think: she is right. And I try not to think: they are 
all pale. They are all pale and long-haired and 
beautiful.

That summer, I am sitting on a bench in our 
tiny neighborhood park. The grass is dewy and 
bright. My t-shirt dress brushes the top of my 
knee-caps. The sun, harsh and unforgiving, heats 
up my shins, and my mother frowns at the exposed 
skin. She says I should try and preserve my color. 
I remember how, every day of elementary school, 
she would lather me in sunscreen and full sleeves 
and long pants, until I was old enough to protest. 
Now, she sits beside me in her jeans and UV-pro-
tected long-sleeve. She looks young for her age. 
Her skin is healthy and fair. 
“You’ll tan,” she tells me, and I shrug.
“All my classmates want to tan,” I reply, and 
I’m only half-joking. The Caucasian girls in 


--- Page 14 ---

 14
my year complain of their paleness. They think 
whiteness looks sickly. After a summer in Florida, 
one holds her forearm up against mine and says, 
“look, I’m even tanner than Anya!” with no small 
amount of pride. 

After my day in the park, I examine my tan 
legs and short hair in my bedroom mirror. I try to 
imagine what my grandmother would think. The 
truth is I did not want to be fresh or new or older 
in high school. I wanted to be white—or whiter, 
at least. 

In Pakistan and India, women cut their hair as 
a sign of defiance. They sever the link between 
femininity and hair length with proud grins and 
the chink-squeak-chink of scissors. They reject 
the models with pale skin and quiet, plastic 
smiles. 7,000 miles away, in my hometown of 
Cleveland, Ohio, I wonder sometimes if I cut my 
hair because I wanted to conform.

The first night after the cut, I lie in bed and 
indulge myself in one moment of terrible, all-con-
suming panic: my lungs freeze in my chest; my 
nails dig into my palms; my eyes go wide and dark 
against the ceiling. Feeling the foreignness of my 
straight-pressed hair, my throat thickens. I feel 
sick. Like a phantom limb, I imagine my braid 
stretching out beneath me, curling underneath 
my pillow, and I realize suddenly, terribly, how it 
is gone, really, truly gone, that by now it has been 
deemed worthy of donation and shipped away, 
that if I ever want to grow it back it will take years, 
maybe a decade, before I feel the weight of my 
braid again. I have made an irreversible decision. 
I have become something I am not, or, rather, 
have given up something that I was. I fall asleep 
with my cheeks wet.

The next morning, my panic feels silly. Walk-
ing up the steps of my high school, I do feel new, 
with my short ponytail pretty and bouncing. The 
day is bright with winter sun. In assembly, my 
friends giggle and grin. Classmates I rarely talk 
to stop to compliment me in the halls. In the eve-
ning, when my mother asks me if I regret it yet, I 
shake off any remnants of the night’s grief. “No,” 
I reply. “Of course not.”

Four years later, and my hair has grown back 
long enough to braid. It is nowhere near its old 
length. I doubt it ever will be: I am in the habit 
of cutting it at the start of each year. I do not feel 
rebellious. At least, not anymore. Sometimes, 
looking at my reflection in that very same salon, 
I feel that I am severing away little parts of myself 
(my cousin’s gaze; the smell of mehndi). But I 
hold on to that doubt. It tethers me in a way that 


--- Page 15 ---

 15
feels necessary. Secure. Other times, I feel the 
same elation at my short hair that I felt four years 
ago. I relish in its soft swishing and high pony-
tails. 

I know cutting my hair is a choice, and that 
choice is mine; I suppose that sometimes that 
responsibility is hard to swallow. Alone in my 
dorm room my first year, I braid my hair before 
bed, for fear of tangles and catastrophe. Against 
the bustle and novelty of college life, the action 
is soothing. I miss, sometimes, the weight of my 
long hair against my back, the subtle shifting 
when it swung side-to-side. If I think back far 
enough, I miss my mother’s brown hands weav-
ing the strands together, slick with coconut oil 
and the smell of home.
—Anya Razmi is a first-year in Pierson College.




**Title: The Nanny Diaries**
**Author: Lily Dodd**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I.
A
t the end of August, I am offered a job as a 
live-in nanny with a family in L.A. There’s a 
lot of backstory here, but it might be kind of tedious 
to explain. Here’s the key point: I don’t know this 
family, but the dad grew up Jewish in Oklahoma, 
and so did my mom, and in the same town, and it’s 
a small world down there. So small of a world that, 
when my mom was a teenager and my future boss 
was four years old, my mom babysat him. (He liked 
dinosaurs.) It turns out this is enough information 
for both of us, and I leave New Haven to move into 
his house for the fall. 

Actually, before I move in, I quarantine for ten 
days in an Airbnb in Silver Lake. Almost every 
evening, I mask up and ride a Lime scooter 
down a massive hill, past Echo Park lake, and 
up another massive hill to have al fresco, fifteen-
feet-away meals with my bosses and their tiny 
children. Daisy is four-and-a-half and Marie is 
seven months. (These are not their real names.) 
Because Marie is a little baby who spends most 
of her time sleeping, eating, and benignly vibing 
on the floor, my job will mainly be entertaining 
Daisy, who has been home from preschool since 
the pandemic began. 

When my quarantine is up and I test negative 
twice, I move into the house in Echo Park. I think 
I may have the nicest living quarters of any gov-
erness in the history of governessing. I’m not sure 
what, exactly, I was expecting, but it certainly 
wasn’t this: a giant room on the second floor, one 
window looking out onto the branches of a giant 
sycamore, the other onto downtown Los Angeles. 
And the sheets are made out of something called 
“eco-latex,” which I can only describe as feeling 
like sleeping under a layer of Starbucks’ cold 
foam (This is a positive thing.)

In many ways, by accepting this job, I have 
flashed forward fifteen years into my ideal future. 
My bosses do absurdly cool work for real money. 
They wear clothes from independent design-
ers and have sustainable fish (including the 
bycatch!) delivered to their house. I am intimi-
dated by their friends in our pod, who include an 
architect, two fashion wizards, the host of a quite 
popular podcast, and all their elaborately-named 
children. 

But really, the person I like hanging out with 
most is tiny Daisy. In the beginning, I ask her a 
lot of questions. What’s her favorite animal? A 
unicorn, because when it jumps over houses, it 
can make rainbows. What’s her favorite color? 
Pink and purple and blue and white and rainbow. 
Talking to Daisy is easy—I can tell we’re going to 
get along, and taking this job was a good decision 
instead of an insane one. Daisy has an answer to 
most questions, and if she doesn’t like the ques-
tion, or if the question is too stupid to warrant a 
response, she just ignores it.

As we spend more time (many hours of most 
days) together, I learn that this quality of hers, 
this constant having-of-answers, extends even 
to questions that I might have thought too diffi-
cult, or too upsetting, for her. But she gets it. She 
understands it all. It’s simple for her. Why do we 
wear masks on our walks? To protect our neigh-
bors. Why are all the grown-ups sad? Because a 
great woman died, and they’re scared about what 
might happen without her. Why can’t we play 
outside today? Because someone had a fucking 
gender reveal party and lit half the state on fire.


II.
W
e flee the fires for La Quinta, California, an 
oasis town sandwiched between the Palm 
Desert and the Coachella Valley. This is where 
they filmed the entirety of The Bachelorette this 
year, and I can tell you right now—it’s a weird 
choice. La Quinta seems like the kind of place that 
shouldn’t exist, the kind of place where you’d pull 
over at a truck stop, pick up a bag of Funyuns, and 
suddenly all the lights would start to flash and the 
cashier would blink his third eye and you’d realize 
you’d accidentally crossed an interdimensional por-
tal. But it’s also kind of bougie and kind of LA, and 
the Airbnb we stay in is clearly set up for Instagram 
influencers, with glittery donut pool floaties, a neon 
sign that read ELECTRIC LOVE, and a ton of 
barely-functional furniture in rose gold and bottle 
green. 

That first night, Daisy and I spend an absurd 
amount of time in the pool. The glittery donut is 
her golden calf. The pool is so over-chlorinated 
that, when we get out, the skin on my face burns. 
Daisy’s eyes are bright red. We’re both euphoric. 
We go to bed and wake up ready to do it all again.

Except that when we come back out to the 
pool, there’s a weird smell. Like an almost chem-
ical stink. We call the Airbnb guy, who in turn 
calls another guy, and that guy comes and stands 
a dozen feet away by the hot tub, sniffing the 
air. He has two theories: something died over 
the fence, or there’s a rattlesnake nearby. Rattle-
snakes secrete. He says this in front of Daisy, who 
promptly decides she never wants to go in the 
pool again. Or outside, for that matter. Remem-
ber that we drove this far for the sole purpose of 
going outside.

And suddenly the landscape changes. Suddenly 
Daisy doesn’t have the answers, and she’s scared, 
and the person who’s supposed to fix it is me. I 
decide immediately that the rattlesnake-secretion 
expert/pool guy is my nemesis. The only way to 
defeat him on the battlefield of Daisy’s beautiful 
mind is to bend reality and the laws of nature. In 
other words, to falsify a PhD in herpetology. In 
other words, to make up fake facts about snakes. 
I tell Daisy that rattlesnakes hate both the 
morning and the afternoon. They cannot stand 
heat and they abhor cold. They don’t like people. 
They don’t like trees. They don’t like anything. I 
have Daisy thinking that rattlesnakes only come 
out in the dead of night, in void-like spaces that 
exist at perfectly neutral temperatures. Nowhere 
near her. Please can we go back in the pool. 
We can. We succeed at being outside for the 
next several days. Then, when it’s time to leave, 
I’m taking the trash out and the bag rips on the 
pool deck and a few chunks of Peking duck, a let-
tuce leaf, and a globular mass of yogurt fall in the 
water. I don’t know then that, later today, we’ll 
spend almost an eternity in a smoke-choked corri-
dor of Southern California, the baby wailing, the 
air acrid, the Taco Bell bathroom shuttered—yes, 
even if you buy something—because of the ongo-
ing global pandemic. As I try to fish the flaccid 
placenta of duck meat out of the water, I wonder 
briefly if this will cause the rattlesnake to return, 
if there ever was a rattlesnake in the first place. 


III. 
hen we get back from La Quinta, I drive to 
Beverly Hills to get my weird mole checked 
out at my boss’s dermatologist. I noticed this mole 
during the summer, and the most romantic way to 
describe it is this: imagine I’m the heroine of a Brid-
gerton-esque period drama, and the handsome lord 
whom I’ve ensnared needs to attend to the affairs 
of his estate, but he also can’t bear to be away from 
me for more than a few moments, so he decides to 
manage his correspondence while standing over my 
prostrate form, and a little droplet of ink spills from 
his quill and lands just to the right of my belly but-
ton. Or, it’s a really dark mole with irregular edges 
that just popped up this summer, so I should proba-
bly go get it checked out, even though I really don’t 
want to because I hate driving in LA and it’s proba-
bly nothing. 

But actually, it’s not nothing and I get a call 
from the dermatologist, who informs me that my 
mole is highly irregular and needs to be removed 
ASAP. This makes me cry, even though the guy is 
like, “You’re going to be fine.” In my defense, it’s 
stressful to have to find a dermatological surgeon 
who is covered by your insurance and available in 
the next few weeks when your weird little mole is 
like a tiny ticking time bomb, just waiting to spew 
more of its evil seeds into your body. 

Eventually I pull myself together, find a doctor 
in my network, schedule an appointment, don 
my N95, and ask my boss to drive me back to 
Beverly Hills because I’m scared that, after my 
surgery, I’m going to be too high to drive myself. 
At the surgery, the nurse looks at my mole in con-
fusion and calls in the doctor, who looks himself 
and says, “This is a really bad mole. I’m sorry, 
because I know you’re young, but you’ll have a 
pretty decent scar.” He then takes out a big blue 
pen and draws a line about three times the size I 
was thinking it would be, right on my skin. 

I’m actually feeling ok, though, because I think 
I’m in love with this doctor. 

Is this man wearing a mask, a face shield, and 
head-to-toe scrubs? Yes. Can I still tell he’s an 
absolute FOX? Yes. (This is not a mask catfish, 
by the way. I could tell you his name and you 
could look him up and agree with me. But I’m 
not going to do that, because I do not objectify 
our #healthcareheroes.) At one point, whilst fin-
gering my new stomach-hole, he asks me where 
I go to school and I say Yale and he says I must 
be pretty smart, huh, and I say hahahahahm-
mmmwell and he says, “I can tell just by talking 
to you.” And this compliment, even though it is 
almost certainly a hollow one—because the most 
interesting thing I’ve said up until this point is 
“Wow, anesthetic really works! I can’t feel any-
thing!”—sends me instantly into a daydream 
where we get married, have beautiful, mole-free 
babies, and I spend the rest of my days throwing 
garden parties for his clients, who are probably 
the Kardashians. 

I spend the rest of the day high as a kite on 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Lily Dodd**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Vicodin. At one point, I go downstairs to make 
myself some tea and tell my bosses that there’s 
some Nutella I’ve been hoarding in my room, but 
actually they can have some. (If they want.) They 
politely decline, but do offer to make the tea for 
me while I sit down. (Go ahead and sit down.)

The problem is, I’m worried that maybe this 
is what being an adult is: You find the mole on 
yourself. You have anxiety about it. You call the 
doctor. You set up the appointment. You go there. 
You fill out the insurance form. You get the mole 
removed. You get the phone call that more of the 
mole needs to be removed than was previously 
removed. You go back to the doctor. You accept a 
bottle of Vicodin and don’t take more than what 
you’re supposed to, even if you wonder if that 
might be fun. You tell the small child who lives 
with you that she can’t touch your big ouchie, 
even though, yeah, it looks pretty interesting to 
touch. (And at one point she touches it anyway, 
and it feels like being stabbed with a blunt knife.) 
And as you lie around with your drugged-out 
brain, watching Enola Holmes on Netflix and 
wondering, very earnestly, if it might be the best 
movie ever made, the small child pounds on 
the door and demands attention, even though 
you’ve told her you can’t play because you’ve got 
Frankenstein stitches in your stomach, and you 
think about how if a child is very lucky, she gets 
to be the center of her own universe, and how 
you yourself were also a very lucky child—one 
who had countless grown-ups in her life to pack 
her crackers, to know which towel was the special 
towel, to comfort you in the aftermaths of trage-
dies you don’t remember. And maybe, if you do 
it right, you can be one of these grown-ups for 
Daisy, too. And maybe, when she thinks about 
October of 2020, what she’ll remember is this: 
standing in the shade of the sycamore, blowing 
bubbles in her twirly dress, the sky so clear that 
she can see the last one drifting all the way up 
over the top of her house. Just like a unicorn.
—Lily Dodd is a junior in Silliman College.


**Title: Anti-passion**
**Author: Nimran Shergill**
**Page number(s): 20**

When I was younger,  
I was always admonished:  
Don’t put your finger to the flame.  
Don’t burn in the fire.  

When I was older, I learned that fire  
wasn’t just from the stove, candles, and logs—  idealism, perfection-
ism, and fanatic passion too.  I learned the hard way that my dreams’ 
lithium flames could scorch me instead.  
Love something passionately  
and your heart balloons with hot air.  
Energetic, lighthearted, you float to the sky,  stretch your fingers out 
to touch the stars, the  incandescent flowers of a barren paradise.  I 
want the stars.  

No one told me to watch out  
for the inferno in my heart  
that ignites an insatiable hunger  
for power, knowledge, and perfection.  Disquieting self-doubt billows 
as smoke.  

The balloon rocks with turbulence.  
Flickering dangerously.  

When things don’t go right,  
Watch out, curious scientist,  


**Author: Renee Ong**
**Page number(s): 21**

Photograph by Renee Ong 
Gateway Arabesque



**Title: Jockey’s Ridge State Park**
**Author: Auguste White**
**Page number(s): 22**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 22
Jockey’s Ridge State Park
Auguste White
Walking on the beach felt like kissing a Boy Scout
Suddenly in a fine little beard of thin grasses
And then a moment later back in the sand 
The dunes were the entire world
Maybe there was sea somewhere but also
Maybe there wasn’t. And this blessed us because 
my grandmother is afraid of water and cannot go near 
splendor
Our footprints were only loosely translated in the sand
And there was nothing to suggest 
That this land had ever known water 
There was only dry wind and chapped blue sky 
There is a coin telescope on the boardwalk
So you can look out and 
Read the same sentence as many times as you want 
Illustrations by Annli Nakayama 


**Title: Sunflowers**
**Author: Charlotte Wakefield**
**Page number(s): 23**

 23
Sunflowers
Charlotte Wakefield
Remember 
when I kneeled in the dirt
and weeded for you
in the summer?
My knees were dirt-specked and sore,
but yours were untouched.
I watched you work
with unrelenting efficiency
somewhere else in the backyard,
as if from a distance.
Maybe you were in the planters,
where you tried to nurture life
and half succeeded.
Nature was too free for you.
Our front yard was bursting
with wild sunflowers
whose seeds you had sown years ago.
You let them grow each year,
then dug them out in the fall.
Still they grew back.
Maybe you let them
because they hid the house
from the neighbors’ stares.
Maybe because they never 
asked for water like I did;
the desert rains were enough for them. 
I would have lived off rain if I could. 
Instead, I begged for bread and water.
Bread and water you gave me, for a while.
You let me grow tall and fragile,
then pulled me out.
I never returned to that soil.


**Title: The Sandal and the Star**
**Author: Sanya Nair**
**Page number(s): 24**

 24
The Sandal
and the Star
A personal essay by Sanya Nair
I 
was seven years old when I went to India for the 
first time. Now, at eighteen, I don’t remember 
much from that trip, only snippets: the hot weather, 
the taste of fresh lychee and rambutan, meeting 
family members, and—much to my mother’s dis-
may—forgetting most of their names the following 
day. Hints of a life I may have lived if my parents 
hadn’t moved to the States that have since blurred 
with time. What I do remember is losing my shoe 
on the side of a mountain. 
I am Hindu by birth. My parents practice the 
faith. My brother and I do so nominally—mak-
ing occasional trips to the nearest Hindu temple 
in Delaware, repeating phrases in Malayalam to 
praise Gods we barely know.
This isn’t to say I don’t believe in Hinduism. It’s 
just that I’ve already reached my spiritual peak, 
when I was seven years old, hiking up a mountain 
to reach a temple dedicated to the Lord Ayyappa, 
alongside my brother, dad, and uncle.
Ilustration by Sydney Zoehrer



**Title: Sabarimala**
**Author: Sanya Nair**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Sabarimala is a spiritual destination for Hindus 
everywhere. Located in my parents’ home state of 
Kerala, it’s the mountain where Ayyappa, a prince 
and Hindu deity, meditated until he united with 
the divine world. The pilgrimage is sacred but 
rare. And this was my chance. Only girls under 
the age of ten and women over fifty are permitted 
to enter the temple since the God who resides 
there is celibate. 


The night before our hike, my uncle, 
fondly known as Valiyacha, took me shopping. 
Driving through roads in India is terrifying. My 
uncle accelerated and swerved past cars like in a 
scene out of an action movie; the smell of burnt 
tires permeated the air. Miraculously, we arrived 
safely at a bazaar with bodegas selling everything 
from shoes and t-shirts to snacks and tea. I spotted 
a tiny kiosk with sandals lining its exterior. There, 
I picked out the prettiest pair of flip-flops in all 
of India to wear. Sleek and glossy, the black rub-
ber sandals fit snugly around my feet, as though 
crafted just for me. It would have been much 
more sensible to choose sneakers or shoes with 
any grip whatsoever. But I wanted the sandals, so 
Valiyacha paid and we headed back.

The next morning, we woke up before dawn. 
My mother couldn’t believe I’d chosen flimsy 
flip-flops to wear on my pilgrimage but mustered 
enough self-control not to yell at me in front of 
my cousins.

She took me aside. I had to hike the moun-
tain in “the right state of mind”—as an American 
and a soon-to-be woman, it was unlikely I’d ever 
climb it again. She told me that a star shone on 
top of the mountain, which was Lord Ayyappa 
himself blessing those who made the journey. I 
didn’t listen. I concentrated on the way my toes 
felt pressed against the hot black rubber, soft and 
supportive—I’d never owned such sleek, sophisti-
cated sandals. I got in the car with my Valiyachan, 
my father, and my brother, the sandals sealed to 
the soles of my feet.

Upon arriving at Sabarimala, we strolled past 
barefoot men holding bamboo chairs, waiting 
to carry people up the mountain for a small fee. 
Skinny men beckoned kids with colorful, plas-
tic toys like bait—pinwheels, poppers, cotton 
candy—hoping for a rupee or two.

The journey up Sabarimala begins with 
eighteen golden steps. If it’s your first time, you 
must break a coconut on the first step. Prideful, 
I attempted numerous times to throw and break 
the coconut. Despite my best efforts, my dad 
stepped in, guiding my hand, gracefully casting 
the coconut onto the step.

A crowd of people gathered close to the base, 
mostly the elderly and sick. One woman, boils 
marking her skin, lay sprawled across a thin, pink 
sheet and begged for money. Another woman 
stood nearby, skin barely hanging off the bone, 
asking for scraps of food. Most travelers ignored 
them, except the occasional one tossing a coin 
onto their blankets, which they received with 
wails of joy. As we walked by, I looked at my 
dad, who returned my hopeful gaze with despair, 
implying wordlessly that there was nothing we 
could do. The desolate and deprived lay begging, 
while we, fixated on spiritual guidance, marched 
on. Out of sight, out of mind. I looked down at 
my new black sandals and, despite myself, was 
happy. We walked on. I stared in awe at the bare-
foot men running up the mountain, carrying peo-


It began to drizzle, and the trail steepened. 
Valiyachan, whose hand I gripped for support, 
slipped as the rock beneath us lost friction. In 
shock, I pulled my hand away and began to roll 
down the mountain. I struggled to cling to the 
path escaping from underneath me. My father 
rushed after me, but it was too late. One of my 
beautiful black sandals was gone. It had fallen 
behind us, leaving my right foot bare. I begged 
my Valiyacha to go back in search of it, and when 
that failed, I pleaded to my father, too. They 
stood firmly and told me it was a lost cause. 

I erupted in anger. My dad carried me, pat-
ting my back as I cried over my lost flip-flop. Men 
who passed stared at my father and brother with 
pity. They were the unlucky bunch tasked with 
bringing a little girl up the mountain. I pouted 
and whined on my father’s back until we were 
halfway up the holy hill. 

Calmer, but still upset, I looked around. Ven-
dors sold refreshments to weary travelers. My 
Valiyachan’s eyes darted across the stands, and he 
skillfully chose two bags of masala-flavored Lays 
chips for my brother and me. Soothed by the 
snacks, I trod onward until we reached the top, 
but the feeling of slippery rock beneath my right 
foot reminded me of what I’d lost.

At the top, I placed my remaining shoe next to 
my brother’s in a designated space allocated for 
devotees to remove their footwear before entering 
the temple.

We walked up to the entrance, and my fixation 
on the lost sandal subsided. I looked up at the 
figurehead in front of me: a tall granite cylinder 
engraved with curving, sacred symbols. Idols of 
Gods twice my size lined the inside of the tem-
ple, adorned with brilliant red and white flowers 
and jewelry. The priest handed my father coco-
nut halves, and I was instructed to pour fresh 
ghee into mine, a representation of body and 
soul. I felt my heart dance as I prayed in unison 
with the other travelers. As a child, I never felt 
overly connected to my culture.  My inability to 
speak Malayalam or understand our religion’s 
mythology created barriers. Back home, our tem-
ple, usually vacant, would host the whole Hindu 
population of the Northeast on holidays. Down 
the street from Dunkin Donuts, its Indian archi-
tecture created a discernible deviation in the 
Hockessin, Delaware skyline. But at Sabarimala, 
I felt more connected to my culture—as much as 
a seven-year-old American could be. Here was a 
group of people who believed so much in some-
thing, they climbed up a mountain in hopes of 
maybe, possibly getting blessed by a God who 
maybe, possibly existed. It may have been foolish, 
but it was beautiful.


We made our rounds across the temple, pray-
ing to the larger-than-life icons for peace and 
prosperity. After completing the ceremonies, I 
stood at the top of the hill and looked around. 
Valiyacha was teaching my brother how to whis-
tle, and my dad rested before the hike back down.

It was early evening, just before sunset. I 
looked up at the hazy, blue-pink sky and, in 
that moment, I saw it. I swear, I saw it. Above 
the mirage of green trees and hilltops, above the 
defecating boars, above the beggars, above the 
men holding up their superiors, above my lost 
shoe, that star shone. The very star my mother 
had told me about. Lord Ayyappa was coming to 
bless those who made the journey. Coming to 
bless me. 

I’d read about moments of clarity in books: 
a feeling of completeness, being chosen to do 
something bigger than oneself. My seven-year-
old self felt it, too: an air of pride and connection 
that made me know we had gathered for some-
thing real. I rushed over to my brother, begging 
him to come quick. When we looked back up at 
the sky, it was gone. He chided me for thinking I 
was special, as any good older brother does, and 
went back to whistling. My father reassured me. 
If I saw the star, it was there.

The trip down was fast. My mother waited for 
us at the base and listened as we recounted our 
journey. I recounted the tale with fervor, empha-
sizing the great loss of my sandal on the rocky 
terrain. I told my mom I saw the star; I received 
Lord Ayyappa’s blessing. Much to my surprise, 
she began to laugh. The star appears in January, 
she said. It was December. And, if I had listened 
to her and not worn those flimsy sandals, then I 
wouldn’t have lost my shoe, she told me. No—if I 
had listened to her, I wouldn’t have seen the star. 
I would have been too content thinking about my 
beautiful shoes. 

—Sanya Nair is a first-year in Benjamin Frank-
lin College.



**Title: BACKSPACES**
**Author: Nicole Dirks**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
He was a good man.
It happened first early on Father’s Day. Around 
midnight, after everyone had gone to sleep, I filed 
through his study in search of inspiration for a 
homemade gift––a book he might have half-read, 
a 90’s-sound-in-contemporary-packaging band he 
had discovered, anything that could offer a clue 
about a recent interest he had developed while I 
had been at college. I found the condoms first, 
then the drawings of her naked edges. The timing 
was outstanding. 
He was a good man when he was my father.

It happened rather quickly the second time. 
Or, quite slowly, when you consider the broader 
timeline. At 1:09 a.m. on January 10th, we arrived 
at the hospital. By 1:24 a.m., his colleague in a 
yellow sheet and face shield told us he had died. 
I’m not sure whether it was the first or second 
time that the loss of my father felt more real. It all 
seemed overwhelmingly arbitrary.
He was my father.

Standing in the mirror this morning, I wished 
that I could duplicate myself. If I could exit my 
body, maybe I could scrutinize myself from more 
viewpoints than a mirror’s reflective plane. One of 
me could stay seated in this folded chair, squarely 
centred in my empty new apartment. The other 
me could circle my body, finally concoct some 
sort of judgment. Maybe then I would know what 
I looked like––the true sharpness of my stare, the 
shape of my thighs. More importantly, I could 
watch myself navigate today, and figure out what 
I feel, besides very little. Maybe I’d know what 
to write––we had waited two years to hold an 
in-person service, and I hardly felt any different 
from when he passed. My hands smelled like my 
pencil’s soft wood. Whenever I brought my hands 
to my face, their odor prodded me for my lack of 
progress. The paper was still vacant.
He devoted himself to his children and to his 
patients.
Bullshit. The words felt neither honest nor 
like what the audience wanted to hear. I shoved 
the sheet of paper into my pocket. Sophie was 
waiting downstairs, so I left and folded into her 
Honda hatchback that always smelled like minty 
dirt. Her gaze lingered on me as I stared at the 
morning traffic, deciding from my composure 
whether our destination should be a topic of dis-
cussion.


“So, are we picking up Michelle?” She had 
chosen evasion.
“Seems like she’s not coming.” I rolled the win-
dow down and watched a frayed dog drink from a 
small puddle of Gatorade outside the post office. 
The sun patched angular shapes of sunlight onto 
the upper halves of the apartment buildings lin-
ing the street. It was going to be a nice summer 
day, for most. 
“She told you?”
“Yeah. And, you know, you don’t have to stay 
actually, if you don’t want to.” A warm breeze 
slanted through the window. The air smelled first 
of dew, then hot smoke from the deli. 
“Oh, okay.”
“Thanks.”
“Does your mum have a ride with anyone?”
“She has a car,” I hoped. “She’ll be fine. 
Thanks.” 
Maybe she would be fine. She would acquire 
grief, and organize it into a loving narrative that 
conflated his lack of responsibility for his death 
with that of his decisions. I slumped into courtesy 
and texted her “You need a ride?” and she replied 
a minute later “No thanks. All good sweetie. See 
you soon xo.” She was always “all good sweetie.” 
Something about her propensity for the unsaid, 
for shielding her distress, reminded me to buckle 
my seatbelt right then.
Love is patient, love is kind. It does not envy, it 
does not boast, it is not proud.

I had been assigned that overdone piece of 
scripture by my mother. My sister was to read 
accompanying psalms. I had read it at my grand-
parents’ funerals; this time, I was told to integrate 
it with a eulogy because apparently I was an adult. 
At my grandfather’s funeral service at the age of 
twelve, I had felt both weightless and overbear-
ing as I had tried to deliver the words with both 
maximal politeness and an air of understanding 
what it means to grieve. Today, in Sophie’s car, 
my knees bristled with the lob of turns and lane 
changes––but back then, they had vibrated like 
two same-pole magnets as I had spoken in front 
of so many old people and family members. After-
wards, I ate too much carrot cake. Michelle told 
me that my dad had cried during the recitation 
because he loved the passage. I later decided it’s 
because he wished he did. He was never religious 
for the right reasons, which I thought made him 
not religious.

It does not dishonor others, it is not self-seek-
ing, it is not easily angered, it keeps no record of 
wrongs.

Or perhaps it was because he knew he had 
been drifting away from representing this inter-
pretation of love.

After an hour, we arrived, so I gave Sophie a 
hug. She held my elbows and took a sentimen-
tal breath as I pulled away, which ruined it for 
me. I resented my coldness to Sophie as I plod-
ded across the soft grass leading up to my father’s 
house. Her awareness of my family bothered 
me, even though she was one of my only col-
lege friends, and my only college friend who had 
moved to the same city as me after graduation. 
And especially because she was one of the only 
ones who I had found the vulnerability to con-
fide in about my father before he contracted the 
coronavirus. 
The glass bungalow looked more sterile than in 
the photo I had seen, more like a horizontal test 
tube than the gleaming construction my mother 
had told me about. You could see the rows of 
folded chairs in the cleared living room from the 
lawn. Michelle appeared next to me on my way 
inside and looped her arm in mine. 
“Jesus, you scared me.” She wore a grey suit, 
the sort of thing she wears to court every day. 
“You came. Thank God.”
“Yeah. Not a fat chance I’m saying what’s been 
prescribed, though.”
“You mean there is a fat chance?”
“That’s what I said.”
“Do you know how she’s doing?”
“We’ll see.”

I found myself breaking from her, then walk-
ing toward the folded chairs in the living room, a 
temporarily empty space for me to write while the 
guests waded into an adjacent room that hosted 
peppermint tea and baby crackers. For weeks, 
I had carried this odd sense of duty toward a 
speech for a man whom I had felt so little obliga-
tion towards for two years. Who was I doing it for? 
At the very least, I needed to accelerate a descent 
into grief.

There were six rows of chairs, separated in the 
middle by an aisle. Three of the walls in the room 
were wrapped in those floor-to-ceiling windows 
that give real estate agents adrenaline rushes. 
The mid-day light ran all around the room in 
gentle slabs. The urn sat at the front, a navy 
blue ceramic egg with a single brass stripe wrap-
ping around its neck. I approached it, and suc-
cumbed to a sudden urge to lift its lid. It was too 
dark to see anything, except for a few sparkling 
specks that picked up the sunlight infiltrating the 
mourning space. I sat down at the seat labelled 
with my name. 
I knew I was supposed to tell a story. Use rhet-
oric to persuade people that my dad lived a com-
plete, good life and that he could have lived a 
longer, equally complete and good life had he 
not died, that I am very sad and moved but grate-
ful and joyful for the time we did share. 
I had a choice between two narratives. There’s 
the one about the father who would oblige my 
incessant requests to ventriloquize my one-eyed 
moose puppet every night before I went to sleep, 
who would stay up and play me The Beatles and 
give me an itchy blanket when I would wake up 
with get-naked-on-the-toilet stomach aches every 
night for a year, who volunteered to coach me 
and my sister’s house league soccer teams. Then 
there was the one who never tried to spend time 
alone with me despite my requesting it, the one 
who told me I “cancelled” him even though I 
gave him many chances and put exactly what I 
wanted from him in letters, in texts, in diplomatic 
conversation, the one who only talked to me to 
check if I was being praised for my talent or if 
I was reading an “authentic” book, the one who 
told me to research “Christian forgiveness” when 
I was upset that he was not making an effort. The 
second father was someone I didn’t know––or, 
more terrifyingly, someone who became who he 
had been waiting to become all this time.

I could not help but think that my father would 
not mourn me at my own funeral. He would be 
bitter that I was not supremely empathetic to him 
after he cheated openly on my mother for three 
years, emotionally abused her, possibly physically 
abused her (she would never tell), always prom-
ised to leave the woman, always disappointed my 
mother, never thought that his kids could be dis-
appointed, too. And worst of all, staying married. 
“The woman,” as we always called her, was an 
orthodontist. I had googled her once, located a 
photo. She looked like a German shepherd, her 
eyes at once endearing, at once like they’d meet 
a stranger’s eyes with a sharpness that one takes 
personally. She looked different from the woman 
my father worshipped in his drawings. I wondered 
if she would be here today. And then I decided I 
did not care.

Sometime between my writing and erasing 
four sentences, my great aunt Abriana, whom I 
had been named after, had wandered into the 
room. Well past the early phases of Alzheimer’s, 
she spoke in circles, always returning to her 
central point, which was that she loved me very 
much. Despite her condition, she was conscious 
of her life in a way that even those mid-life have 
not aged into. And I wondered what I’d think of 
my father when I grew old and grateful, a state 
that seemed unattainable to me even today. Espe-
cially today. 
Abriana was cupping a wine glass filled with 
water. Her grey-tan shoes with velcro straps shuf-
fled slowly under the inefficiency of her hinged 
posture, inching toward the cheap collapsible 
chair next to mine. Once she sat down, she bal-
anced the stem of her glass on her thigh. She 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Nicole Dirks**
**Page number(s): 31-32**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
spilled only a little onto her trousers.
“Did you see the flowers?” She was smiling as 
she spoke. She always smiled so much. It always 
made me sad. “Beautiful hydrangeas.” It was odd 
that my father had hydrangeas planted. They 
were always my mother’s favorite, so I thought 
that he would at least let her have the flowers.
“Not yet.”
“You should see them before the ceremony.”
“I will.”
“Still writing?”
“I’m nearly done.”
“It doesn’t quite look that way.” The paper was 
still open on my lap. “Honey. Is everything okay?”
“Been better. But I’m okay, Abri.” She moved 
a hand away from her glass and placed it over 
mine, still gripping my pencil.
“This must be so hard.” She made an effort to 
twist her head to meet mine. This was a flailing 
sensitivity I was not accustomed to from my great 
aunt, but that I was from Sophie. She offered me 
some of her water, holding it out with two hands. 
I told her no thanks. 
I guided the glass back toward her knee. “You 
know. Don’t you?” Our eye contact was over-
whelmingly direct. I began darting my gaze inter-
mittently to her forehead to soften the intensity 
of our seeing.
“Why, yes,” she said. “Dear.” 
“Jesus. Okay.” I knew my grandparents had 
known my father’s secret. But the woman with 
dementia I saw only twice a year? The prospect 
of speaking well of my father in front of a crowd 
of family and friends who were aware of his aban-
don of his family rapidly nauseated me.
“I love you very much, Abriana.”


After my mum’s speech, flattened with 
words like “intelligent” and “well-known” and 
“nice” and everything that means nothing, she 
had her singing friend come in with her guitar. 
The woman wore a purple dress and played a ver-
sion of “In My Life” at the ceremony that failed 
to rupture from the song’s clichéd status. 
Most of my memories of the song were from 
dainty listening sessions with my father in his 
study when I was a child. He used to expose 
this strange hole of fragility in himself when he 
listened, and all I had wanted was to climb in 
and explore. I had thought it beautiful, rare, and 
exclusive, revealed just for me. Most of these 
memories were rendered defective because of 
the times when I got high in college and played 
the song softly from my cell phone after getting 
home at 3 a.m. when Sophie was asleep. These 
sessions smeared my happy memories with the 
knowledge that I would only ever understand 
positive associations of the song in the context 
of loss. Yet today, despite too-much-ness of the 
emotion laced into her voice, the middle-aged 
woman’s singing reminded me of when I used to 
unskillfully emote while singing the same song. 
Sitting cross-legged on the sticky rug in his study, 
I would think myself an artist, and then he would 
tell me I could be one.


“And now we’ll hear a few words from 
Thomas’s second daughter, Abriana.” Apparently 
Michelle had chosen not to speak. She put her 
hand on my forearm and squeezed it gently, as if 
to both encourage me and let me know that she 
was not sorry about her refusal.


I rose slowly, feeling the dual heaviness 
and surrealism of a dark dream come over me. My 
father was a good man. He devoted himself to his 
children and his patients. I wiped the moisture 
on my palms onto the sides of my cotton pants. 
He loved the song “In My Life,” and because of 
him I loved it too. Actually, one time, we even 
I looked up on the walk toward the podium, 
and I saw that my great-aunt had also risen to the 
call of our name from the other side of the aisle. 
No one had informed her that she was not sup-
posed to speak in the time that she had walked 
from the third row to the front. We approached 
each other just in front of the podium, where the 
urn was placed on a narrow black stand. For a 
moment, I realized how I might look from the 
outside, where Abriana walked: wobbly, fogged, 
and surrendered. In a loud whisper, I said “Abri, 
I think it’s my turn.” 
Sitting cross-legged on the sticky 
rug in his study, I would think 
myself an artist, and then he 
would tell me I could be one.


Love is patient, love is kind.
But she kept walking toward me as I spoke, try-
ing to hear me a little better. As she shuffled, she 
turned her ear to face mine. Her shoulder brisked 
the stand, and she walked right through it. The 
urn wobbled for a moment, and then it slowly fell 
into my hands that had jolted into a position to 
save it. I caught the urn.           
Then, I let it fall. 
Love is not proud.
Jagged slices of the urn radiated from the 
ground. The ashes poured out, bloomed upwards 
and out over the heads of everyone in the lit-
tle room, and then floated downwards. The air 
became a suspension of his body, so much so that 
it quickly became difficult to see the windows on 
the other side. Larger flecks fell faster onto sur-
faces, onto guests’ hair, and inside purses. Clarity 
could be found if you were near the edge of the 
room, where you could look out the nearest win-
dow. It was awful.
It was maybe a little funny. Or at least ironic, 
that the carrier of the virus that killed him now 
contained all of him. As if he could now infect 
us.
Sometime after calming my mother with hot 
tea and a sit out on the lawn, burying the urn in 
the garden patch with the blue hydrangeas, I left. 
Sophie was waiting in her car.


Inevitably, she noticed the windows 
caked with remains. I explained. She paused 
before responding until the gravel driveway dis-
appeared and skinny trees replaced the glass 
house.
“Who’s going to clean it?” she asked.
“Not sure. Someone lucky.”
—Nicole Dirks is a sophomore in Branford 
College and a Copy Editor.


**Title: Reopening, Restricted.**
**Author: Kaylee Walsh**
**Page number(s): 33**

F
or the first time since they closed in March 
2020, New Haven Public Schools opened its 
doors to students enrolled in Pre-K through fifth 
grade on January 19, following a reopening plan 
that Philip Penn, Chief Financial Officer of NHPS, 
likened to “changing a tire on a car while driving 
down the highway.”
After months of delay, the Reopening Task 
Force, founded in April 2020 to assess how 
schools might welcome students back with new 
safety protocols, settled on a corporate-inspired 
plan that involves “tiger teams”—a method of 
dividing up the work amongst smaller groups, 
according to Penn.
“If you look at [reopening New Haven schools] 
as the only problem, it’s overwhelming,” he 
explained. “But then if you continue to break 
that down into smaller and smaller pieces, the 
challenges become less dramatic.” As the leader 
of the Facilities and Operations team of the task 
force, Penn’s focus included drafting protocols 
for safety inside the schools, including floor 
plans equipped for social distancing, a face mask 
requirement, and training guidelines on hygiene 
in the classroom for staff.  
Outside the task force, Daniel Diaz, Parent 
Engagement Coordinator for the district, has 
worked to include parents in the reopening plans 
as well, by keeping them informed and involved 
in public meetings and surveys. Diaz stressed 
how he––along with the rest of the Youth, Fam-
ily, and Community Engagement department––
worked to set up helplines for specific needs of 
families in the district. “We developed a family 
helpline where parents can actually call and 
ask questions, even if they needed food, if they 
needed support with technology, if they needed 
coats, if they needed computers,” he said. Diaz 
also explained that additional helplines were 
developed as needs arose, such as a helpline spe-
cifically for homework, and others for IT support 
and special education. 
However, according to Diaz, the most severe 
need among families using the helplines was 
food. He noted that the district has provided 
lunch for students learning remotely, by working 
with local organizations like Arte Inc. and Chris-
tian Community Action. “When parents call the 
family helpline, and tell us they need this, we 
actually act on it,” Diaz explained. While Diaz 
did not provide any specific statistics on the usage 



**Title: New Haven Public Schools Reopening**
**Author: Kaylee Walsh**
**Page number(s): 34-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 34
of the helplines, he noted that they continue to 
receive calls from families in need, even during 
the reopening process, particularly among fam-
ilies who are still learning remotely and do not 
have access to food or the necessary technology 
in school.

He insisted that the voices of parents and the 
safety of all involved are top priorities. “The com-
mon link in all of these surveys [that were sent 
out to parents] was safety. We wanted to make 
sure that the students return to a safe environ-
ment,” he stated. “The parents have always been 
involved. They’ve always been engaged.”

While the pandemic’s trajectory continues to 
shift on a daily basis, Penn and Diaz are both 
confident that the district has done as much as 
they could to ensure as much safety as possible 
in New Haven’s schools. “I hope people can see 
the effort that was there… because people can 
have confidence in the fact that a lot of smart 
people that were really committed to getting the 
kids back safely put a lot of time and effort into 
making that happen,” Penn said. 

The reopening guidelines have come after 
months of labor. Penn cites the changing guid-
ance from local health officials for this fluctu-
ation, but he also acknowledges the opportuni-
ties that came with more time. “If the project 
stops, it’s usually for a good reason,” he stated. 
“Anytime you’ve got more time available to you, 
there’s always things you can go back and do.”

Still, some feel that the work of the Reopening 
Task Force has not been enough to ensure safety 
in schools. In a letter published on Twitter on Jan-
uary 15, the New Haven Federation of Teachers 
(NHFT) called on the district to delay reopening 
until February 1 at the earliest, so more specific 
plans can be put in place. “Since last summer, 
staff and families repeatedly requested, in various 
ways and venues, system-wide guidance on infec-
tion control policies and procedures, collected 
in one single reference document, disseminated 
through system-wide training for staff, as well as 
communication with families,” the letter states. 
“It could draw from, update, and expand upon 
the preliminary work of the Tiger Team draft 
proposals last summer.” The letter was signed 
by David Cicarella, President of NHFT, along 
with representatives of other local organizations, 
including New Haven Public School Advocates 
and the Citywide Parent Team. 

Similarly, in an update posted to their website 
on January 4, 2021, Cicarella, along with Pat 
DeLucia, the Vice President of NHFT, stated 
that their organization was not informed of the 
plan to reopen until December 31, 2020, and 
that NHFT was not a part of the decision-mak-
ing process. “The decision was made by Central 
Office in conjunction with the City Building 
Department and the City Health Department.” 
The update further asserts, “There can be, and 
should be, an ongoing assessment of the data to 
determine if it remains safe to return on [January] 
19.” 

Likewise, parents and teachers presented 
mixed opinions about reopening at the Board of 
Education meeting on January 11, the first meet-
ing after the reopening date was announced. 


---

 35
Rebecca Cramer, a parent at L.W. Beecher 
School, submitted a public comment in support 
of reopening. “I believe that it is important to 
trust in the expertise and guidance of the New 
Haven Health Department and NHPS district 
leadership,” she wrote. She stressed that students 
still have the option to learn remotely, so parents 
who are worried about safety do not have to put 
their children at risk. “We can all work together 
to keep our community safe, but doing so can 
take different forms including through the safe 
reopening plan that NHPS has worked so hard to 
develop,” she added.

Other parents, however, had doubts. Karyn 
Smith, a parent at Elm City Montessori School, 
wrote in a comment at the meeting that she was 
concerned about forced school closures and the 
need for students and teachers to quarantine, 
which would disrupt a smooth reopening process. 
“Even if the Superintendent and Board want to 
believe only the studies that support re-opening, 
with current transmission rates, school and class-
room closures will be the norm. Rather than a 
smooth re-opening experience, students and 
families will experience frequent upheaval,” she 
argued. Smith additionally cited the emergence 
of new COVID-19 variants and higher positivity 
rates, particularly in Black and Brown communi-
ties, as reasons against reopening.

New Haven teachers also voiced their concerns 
in comments submitted to the meeting. Many of 
them noted that, at the time of reopening, teach-
ers were not yet eligible to receive their vaccines. 
“The vaccine is weeks [away], the end is near, 
please do not risk my life and additional commu-
nity spread for this charade,” Jessica Light, a third 
grade teacher at Worthington Hooker School, 
wrote. Mary McMullen, a librarian in the dis-
trict, echoed these concerns in her comment. 
“Please do the only ethical and reasonable thing, 
and delay the opening of in-person attendance 
for NHPS students until all NHPS staff (who 
choose to do so) receive the vaccine for COVID-
19,” she wrote. According to EdWeek, there have 
been at least 196 COVID-19 deaths among K-12 
school faculty in the United States, as of February 
9, 2021. 

Despite all the focus on the January reopening, 
there is still a long way to go before all students 
return to the classroom. The plan excluded stu-
dents in grades 6-12, who will continue to learn 
remotely. Edith Johnson is the principal of one 
school that is still entirely remote, Wilbur Cross 
High School in the East Rock neighborhood. 
She also served on the Instruction team of the 
Reopening Task Force.

Johnson also spoke to the challenges of remote 
learning, specifically with the abrupt halt of 
in-person learning in March. “It’s really chal-
lenging for our teachers that we asked them to 
do something really different overnight,” she 
recalled. In addition to training teachers about 
remote teaching techniques, Johnson noted 
that many students struggled with technology 
access over the past year. She cited support from 
the Dalio Philanthropies and the New Haven 
National Guard for providing and distributing 
laptops to students in need.



 36
Still, Johnson expressed that the work is far 
from over in terms of equal access. “We need to 
continue to do those things to build equitable 
practices across our education system to make 
sure that all of our students have the same access 
to education,” she explained. 

In addition to physical resources, Johnson also 
noted the emotional toll that the pandemic has 
taken on the student body. “I don’t think there’s 
anybody in the New Haven community who has 
not been impacted by COVID,” she remarked, 
noting that many students may have either had 
COVID-19, or dealt with a family member’s ill-
ness or death. “We’re trying to provide as many 
social and emotional supports, but it’s a difficult 
thing,” she added.

This difficulty, Johnson acknowledged, can be 
attributed to some of the disconnect that comes 
with remote learning. “The majority of kids, even 
if remote is working and they’re doing well, want 
to come back to school,” she explained. She notes 
that it can often be more challenging to provide 
support, both academically and emotionally, to 
students when they are not physically in the same 
room. Additionally, in a recent meeting with stu-
dents, she learned that some of them had chal-
lenges with being on a computer for extended 
periods of time. 

At the Board of Education meeting on January 
25, some high school students submitted testi-
monies that reflected Johnson’s concerns about 
remote learning. Kiana Webber, a student at 
Cooperative Arts and Humanities High School, 
wrote, “This pandemic took so many things away 
from us, lives, happiness, the ability to freely see 
our family, and countless more, I truly hope one 
day we will get back to the way we were. I want to 
go back to school more than ever with the right 
precautions because now that I’ve been out of 
school, I truly understand the amount of happi-
ness I get from attending school and seeing my 
friends.” 

Of course, Johnson also recognized the spe-
cific concerns that high school students are being 
deprived of the authentic high school experience. 
“I specifically talk about our ninth graders and 
our seniors,” she said. “They all have that true 
senior or freshman experience that they’re miss-
ing out on.” With prom, graduation, and athletic 
events still up in the air, Johnson recognizes the 
added pressure she faces as a high school princi-
pal, but she is hopeful that the school community 
can keep moving forward. “We have a lot of Cross 
pride, and we’re Cross strong, and we’re going to 
figure it out,” she asserted. “And we’re going to 
do the best that we can for our students and our 
staff.”

Johnson, Penn, and Diaz all offered different 
perspectives of how the pandemic has uniquely 
affected their jobs and their plans for the school 
year, but they also offered similar conclusions—
despite the uncertainty of the pandemic and the 
pushback that the district has faced, they have 
confidence in the precautions that the district is 
taking, and they hope parents will be too. 

Johnson reasserted her faith in the efficacy and 
safety of the reopening, but hedged that the plan 
wouldn’t appease all parents, students, and staff 
involved. “We’re not going to please everyone,” 
she acknowledged, “but we recognize that our 
kids do need to be in school.” 

Time will tell if the reopening plan is effec-
tive enough to keep students and faculty safe, and 
if the students at Wilbur Cross and other high 
schools in New Haven are able to return to a 
modified but memorable high school experience. 
But after almost a year, the seeds of returning to a 
somewhat normal education have been planted. 

Johnson recalled a scene at Clinton Avenue 
School, where she offered help in welcoming stu-
dents, on reopening day, of the young elementary 
students getting off the bus, clad in masks featur-
ing cartoon characters and superheroes. Despite 
all the turbulence of the past year, and all the 
precautions that are still in place, one thing was 
clear—they were happy to be back. 

—Kaylee Walsh is a junior in Jonathan 
Edwards College. 



**Moments of Reverence**
**Author: Renee Ong**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Moments of Reverence


**The Campaign to Convince**
**Author: Zachary Groz**
**Page number(s): 38-39**

The Elm City needs 130,000 vaccinations. It’s not going to 
happen without a fight.
By Zachary Groz
Design by Natasha Gaither
I’m immune. I don’t leave the apartment. You 
got sick last April. We don’t know how long it’ll 
last. I won’t take it. You have a civic responsi-
bility. No, I don’t. If you don’t take it now, it’ll be 
months before you’ll have the chance again. I’ll 
live with it. 
So it was settled. My grandfather, 89, news-
savvy, sophisticated, sartorial, middle name 
Alfred, usually sweet, crippled by Covid, whose 
wife, my grandmother, died of it months before, 
refused the vaccine. There was no convincing 
him. The next day, my mother tried again. 
In New Haven, in the next days and months, 
hundreds of volunteers––organizers, clergy, stu-
dents, and doctors––will be trying to do en masse 
what my mother tried to do with my grandfather. 
They’re part of the city’s campaign to convince. 
Now that two vaccines are effective and available, 
what’s left is persuading enough people to take 
them for their efficacy to matter. 
That campaign depends on two conditions. 
First, infrastructure: having the sites––converted 
Yale gyms, parking lots, churches––having the 
personnel, and having the shots. And second, 
unburdening healthcare workers––cutting trans-
mission with masks and distance––so they can get 
out of permanent crisis mode, and onto prophy-
lactics.  
So far, the city’s opened five mass vaccination 
sites: at the City Health Department, the Fair 
Haven Community Health Clinic, and the Cor-
nell Scott Community Health Center, and in 
huge hangers like the Lanman Center and the 
Floyd Little Field House. Each shows an extraor-
dinary human effort and the problems inherent––
that, as impressive these proofs of efficiency and 
scale are, they’re only a fraction of what’s needed. 
As of this writing, New Haven has the capacity 
to vaccinate 1,100 people per week, according to 
Gage Frank, the city’s Director of Communica-
tions. And with that capacity, in the week of Feb-
ruary 3rd, as tallied in the Connecticut Depart-
ment of Health’s dataset, the city administered 
just over 900 first doses. Roughly 80 percent of 
nursing home residents, the first group eligible, 
have been vaccinated with at least one dose––past 
the threshold conferring “community immunity,” 
where the virus is buffeted from viable hosts by 
walls of inoculated ones. Close to 45 percent of 
city residents 75+ have received at least one dose 
(2,481), which ranks New Haven sixth among all 
Connecticut municipalities––still missing the 
state-wide mark, in that age group, of 53 percent. 
Achieving immunity in a city of 130,000 will 
require a pace of vaccination an order of magni-
tude faster than it’s currently moving.     
To make that possible, the city has to plan 
many thens for many ifs. If the city gets more 
than the 600 weekly vials it receives now (on top 
of its original stockpile), which it must in order 
to reach community immunity before 2023, then 
it’ll need the staff to administer them; if it has 
the staff, then it’ll need the facilities; if it has the 
facilities, then it’ll need recipients. 
But the pandemic is still raging in New Haven, 
and it isn’t immediately obvious how to meet even 
the first condition. Doctors and nurses are work-
ing 16-hour shifts. In-patient hospital services 
are at 95 percent capacity. Dr. Everett Lamm, a 
pediatrician at Fair Haven Community Health, 
told me that, even as the state’s positivity has 
plateaued at about 3.5, the rate in Fair Haven, a 
low-income neighborhood on the city’s East Side, 
has been static in the double-digits––12 percent 


or higher, on a given day.     
Two initiatives have recently 
begun lobbying state and federal 
officials to involve medical and 
pharmacy students in the vacci-
nation effort to relieve the strain 
on current staff. In mid-January, 
the National Student Response 
Network (NSRN), a coalition 
of medical, nursing, physician 
assistant, and pharmacy stu-
dents, wrote to the COVID-
19 Task Force and the Biden 
Transition Team with a direct 
appeal: “national involvement 
of health professions students is 
crucial toward addressing vac-
cination workforce shortages.” 
Those shortages run deep. For 
the average clinic, the CDC 
recommends having a 58-person 
team of medical screeners, vac-
cinators, clinical managers, EMTs, and others on 
site. On the scale required in a city of New Hav-
en’s size, that would mean reallocating a massive 
amount of hospital staff––at the moment, some-
thing the system can’t spare.  
Hirsh Shekhar, NSRN’s National Director and 
a first year at Yale’s School of Medicine, men-
tioned two precedents for student involvement 
in mass vaccination: Stanford’s Flu Crew, which 
has run seasonal campaigns since 2001, and the 
University of Cincinnati College of Medicine, 
which enlisted hundreds of its students as surge 
vaccinators during the 2009 H1N1 pandemic. 
“In any accredited pharmacy program, training 
to provide immunization is a standard part of the 
second-year curriculum,” he told me––the point 
being that nothing besides will and time is keep-
ing the 600,000 students in all health professions 
from being certified to do the same, after the stan-
dard 20 hours of training. One of NSRN’s goals 
is to broaden the success of past campus-specific 
programs––to create a sort of medical student 
reserve corps, ensuring vaccination doesn’t stall 
for lack of hands.    
The other component of NSRN’s work involves 
allaying fears and misconceptions around the vac-
cine (most often about side-effects, which show 
the immune system’s learning to fend off the 
virus; or the speed of the vaccines’ development, 
the upshot of $9 billion of federal funding, com-
pared to the $500 million to $1 billion a typical 
vaccine receives for R&D). An interdisciplinary 
partnership of medical, law, and public health 
students at Yale started a hyper-local version of 
NSRN’s framework this February. Danielle 
Miyagishima, an MD-PhD candidate at the 
School of Medicine and the project lead, 
explained that its aims are threefold: “decreasing 
the workload for overburdened health staff;” eas-
ing the “accumulation of small inconveniences,” 
like lack of insurance, time, and internet, which 
might discourage someone from registering for 
the vaccine; and having conversations, door-to-
door and on social media, to gain community 
trust. Like NSRN’s and Yale’s, any campaign 
against misinformation has to recognize its talent 
for metastasis. Doubts, like inconveniences, tend 



**Title: Running As...**
**Author: Meera Rothman**
**Page number(s): 42**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Running as magic.         

When I was younger, my dad used to tell 
me the story of how he fell in love with 
running. He was fifteen, at a sleepaway camp 
deep in the Vermont woods. One night when he 
was – frustrated with his counselors? bored of the 
routine? I’d like to imagine – he ventured down 
the driveway, and out of the camp. There were no 
cars on the main road, just streetlights and houses 
so deep-set he could only see their windows. And 
sweet, sweet silence. 

My dad ran for miles. Just a skinny boy with no 
phone, tracing the light’s path forward. He says 
he ran every night after that (seems unlikely), and 
that he’d run for hours before he turned around 
(definitely false). My dad has a propensity for 
exaggerating. But I’m sure that’s how it felt, at 
least, and that’s how he told the story.


My dad used to run every Saturday morning 
when I was growing up. It was his one indulgence, 
the only fissure in the armor of my parents’ very 
busy, very responsible lives—a daily rhythm that 
consisted of rising at six, arriving at the hospital 
by seven, and working late into the evening on 
patient records, which they’d shield with their 
hands when I’d pass by their laptops. Somehow, 
they also deposited my sister and me on the bus, 
spread peanut butter on our sandwiches, and 
tucked us into bed. Then back to the computers.

But on Saturday mornings, my dad would dis-
appear from our house with the dog and return 
hours later, covered in mud. At the end of the 
only decent running trail in the suburbs is a 
swampy pond that you could, by very loose stan-
dards, call a swimming hole. My dad would leap 
into the calm, green water with our yellow lab 
like it was the most natural thing to do. At home, 
he’d squat down to clean the mud tracks on the 
kitchen floor, beaming and retelling stories of his 
best running days in San Francisco.


Illustration by Cindy Ren


**Title:  Untitled**
**Author: Zachary Groz**
**Page number(s): 41**

—Zachary Groz is a sophomore in Jonathan 
Edwards College and an Associate Editor.



**Author:  (Not specified)**
**Page number(s): 40, 41**

Any campaign to build trust in the vaccines will have to contend with a system that 
continues to entrench its opposite.
--Vials with the COVID-19 vaccine, probided by the New Haven Register.
to accumulate, and making the case that they’re 
unwarranted is significantly harder than seeding 
them.    
The seeders have had a century-long head start. 
“Anti-vaxxers today are recycling arguments that 
were made a century ago, because those argu-
ments are coming from a similar set of mistakes 
in the way people think about data and look at 
data, and similar underlying fears,” Jonathan Ber-
man, a professor of biology and physiology at the 
New York Institute of Technology, and the author 
of Anti-vaxxers: How to Challenge a Misinformed 
Movement (MIT Press, 2020), told me. Fair Hav-
en’s Dr. Lamm had said something similar, that 
early on, many people had misinterpreted the 
mRNA method the new vaccines use. While 
mRNA trains cells to produce a harmless protein, 
triggering an immune response, many believed 
the vaccine actually rewrote DNA. Others fixated 
on the infinitesimally few bad reactions reported 
in the news. Another law of misinformation: data 
is often manipulated, but it doesn’t have to be in 
order to be misinterpreted. 
This new generation of anti-vaxxers has 
the added advantage of leveraging internet 
echo-chambers and viral misinformation––the 
sort social media algorithms amplify, and 
the absence of regulation permits. “Now we 
have a huge increase in vaccine hesitancy 
and in people who are actively sharing 
anti-vaccine ideas,” Berman said. “Part of 
it is simply that we can communicate bet-
ter now than we ever could.” I got a glimpse 
of the bottomlessness of the problem when 
I went looking for his book on Amazon. The 
“Products related to this item” box, at the 
bottom of the page, threw up a pamphlet 
on death-curing elixirs––what the Big Guys 
don’t want you to know. 
“Part of it is also that a lot of the prob-
lems we have socially have never been fully 
solved,” he continued. “That makes an envi-
ronment where people can be persuaded 
with lies and misinformation that are pre-
mised on their underlying social concerns.” 
Anti-vaccination is a perennial instinct in 
modern society with roots in every other fear––of 
change, authority, lies, unfreedom, illness, and 
death. It’s been made into a struggle for the self. 
For that reason, it won’t, at least wholly, lose to 
“facts and logic.” The solution’s as complicated as 
the problem is clear: “Until people deal with the 
trust issue, there’s not going to be much change,” 
said Bernard Macklin, the Flu Outreach Coor-
dinator at the Community Alliance for Research 
and Engagement (CARE) in New Haven. 
Plenty besides anti-vax militants and mys-
tics don’t yet trust that the Pfizer and Moderna 
vaccines are safe. In the latest round of polling 
from the Associated Press and the NORC Cen-
ter for Public Affairs Research, roughly a third 
of respondents said they were unlikely to (17 
percent) or categorically wouldn’t (15 percent) 
accept a vaccine. Nearly half in that category will 
have to come around for widespread immunity 
to take hold––for the coronavirus to become just 
another endemic disease we inoculate against 
yearly. 

In Connecticut, the U.S. Census Bureau’s 
most recent survey of vaccine hesitancy found 
that distrust of the vaccines and of government 
was most pronounced in the African American 


community. Thirty six percent of African Ameri-
can respondents expressed reluctance because of 
a lack of “trust in COVID-19 vaccines,” and close 
to 38 percent because of a lack of “trust in the 
government.” In comparison, less than 20 per-
cent of Asian, Hispanic, and white respondents 
attributed their concerns to either rationale. 

Like vaccine clinical trial data, those figures 
can be prolifically misinterpreted, and used to 
buttress dangerous conclusions. “We consistently 
end up with scenarios where instead of asking 
questions that cast aspersions on the healthcare 
system, we always ask questions that cast asper-
sions on African Americans and their behavior,” 
Harriet Washington, author of Medical Apart-
heid, a history of racism in medicine and winner 
of the 2007 National Book Critics Circle Award 
for Nonfiction, told me. “The question we should 
be asking is, what is it about our healthcare sys-
tem that is not getting the vaccine to people in 
necessary numbers, and not getting the vaccine 
to every group when it should. Instead we’re 
asking, what is it about African Americans that 
would cause them to reject the vaccine.” 

Any campaign to build trust in the vaccines 
will have to contend with a system that continues 
to entrench its opposite––the “reasons why,” as 
Washington put it, “African Americans might be 
barred from the vaccine and may not have access 
to it. We know a lot of them already: less likely to 
have a personal physician, more likely to live in 
an area where the safety net hospitals are closing, 
lack of transportation, lack of having jobs that 
allow you to take time off for things like doctor’s 
appointments and getting vaccines.” Access, like 
trust, Washington said, begins with understand-
ing systems and individuals’ place in them, not 
with hypothesizing motives.     

The state’s outreach campaign is expected to 
begin in earnest come the summer, ideally when 
most who want a vaccine have received at least a 
single dose. “We’re looking to June,” said Ham-
den State Representative Josh Elliott, who sits on 
the Governor’s Vaccine Advisory Board. “That’s 
closer to when we’ll need to actively reach people 
who are skeptical.” The process will require cen-
tral coordination on a decentralized approach––
with labor unions, shelters, pantries, pastors, and 
local doctors––with the goal of restoring “reason-
ably lost trust in government.” 

The testimony of friends, family, and other 
trusted messengers will be instrumental to that 
effort, which is part of CARE New Haven’s, 
NSRN’s, and the Yale program’s plans. As more 
people take the vaccine, others in the commu-
nity will likely be more inclined to––a general 
sense, borne out by the data. The Census report 
from January concluded that “worries about 
side effects” and “plans to wait and see whether 
the vaccine’s safe” were the two most common 
grounds for hesitancy. When we spoke, CARE’s 
Bernard Macklin mentioned that he had received 
his first shot just the other day, and felt good. “I’m 
still here,” he said, “And now, I’m a witness.”



**Title: In What I Talk About When I Talk About Running**
**Author: Haruki Murakami**
**Page number(s): 43**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
In What I Talk About When I Talk About Running, Japanese novelist Haruki Murakami writes that long-distance running is a meditative practice. He references a quote from English writer Somerset Maugham: in every shave there is a philosophy. 
Murakami says it’s the same with running. No matter where in the world he is, the 71-year-old runs every day. Every year since he was 33, he has run a full marathon. Murakami notices his speed and his times, but he doesn’t worry about them. For him, the purpose of running is not to get faster or stay in shape. It’s about the practice––how an act repeated mindfully again and again becomes a ritual. 
“All I do is keep on running in my own cozy, homemade void, my own nostalgic silence. And this is a pretty wonderful thing. No matter what anybody else says.” Murakami writes.


**Title: Running as a cure for awkwardness.**
**Author: Not specified**

Running as a cure for awkwardness.
I never ran—really ran—until I was sixteen. 
I was never on a cross-country team, and I was consistently one of the slowest kids in the gym class 50-meter dash. Needless to say, I was not recruited to join a sports team, and I funneled all of my energy and angst into school.
My sixteen years of awkwardness stemmed from the fact that my nose was constantly shoved in a book. I read for English and World History, worshipped the twin pillars of schoolwork and homework, and when I finished my assignments, I buried myself under books for pleasure. Surfacing into the real world felt disorienting, stressful, and disappointing. None of the Big Feelings in books could be found in my real life.
One weekday in December when I was in eleventh grade, my dad suggested we all go running. We had just finished dinner, and my sister and I were trudging upstairs to study. It was thirty degrees outside, and the thought of running seemed ridiculous. But somehow my dad convinced us, and we bundled ourselves in layers of shirts and two pairs of pants each. We dusted off clunky yellow flashlights from the top shelf of our laundry room and got in the car.
Ten minutes away, deep into the labyrinth of suburban streets, was Jerome Jay— an endless hill of mansions, each unbelievably grand. Driving down Jerome Jay feels like passing a procession of strange and magnificent birds. On our way to school, my sister and I liked to rank them, our eyes always settling on the cream-colored house with the stone cherub fountain in the yard. 
Through the car window, the houses became indistinguishable, a dark row of identical monoliths. My dad parked halfway up the street, past the initial incline, in the flat space in front of someone’s house. The lights on the first and second floor of the house were on, and I thought how strange those people must think it was to see three bundled figures jogging past their house at nine at night. 
My flashlight with its weak bulbs shone only a few feet in front of me, and I followed the light mindlessly, my thoughts still wandering in the margins of my calculus textbook. Under layers of clothing, my blood slowly warmed up and my fingers felt less cold when I touched them to my cheek. My knees and hips and arms started moving as one, as awkward steps turned to ease. I drank the cold, spacious air and suddenly became aware of the shape of my lungs, the sensitivities in my nose, the place where all the air tunnels inside me connected. 
We ran, each in our own trance, the three of us filling the width of the street. After fifteen minutes, my sister got tired, so we turned around. The way back was downhill, and my dad spread his arms wide like he was one of the birds on Jerome Jay. He sped ahead of us, flying down towards the car, my sister chasing at his heels. Annoyed, I kept my pace. I listened to the rhythm of my breath—in, hold, out, hold—steady, even as my body fell quickly, surely, joyfully down the hill.


**Title: Siddhartha**
**Author: Herman Hesse**
**Page number(s): 43-44**

In the Buddhist novel Siddhartha by Herman Hesse, Siddhartha – the beautiful son of a revered Indian Brahmin – runs away from home, leaving behind his family and village in search of spiritual fulfillment. He joins a group of wandering ascetics and adopts their practices, but ultimately, he decides he must seek meaning on his own. After parting ways with his best friend, he sets off alone, walking slowly through nature and pondering the world around him.
Finally, he is awakened.
He looked around, as if he was seeing the world for the first time… Blue was blue, river was river, and if also in the blue and the river, in Siddhartha, the singular and divine lived hidden... The purpose and the essential properties were not somewhere behind the things, they were in them, in everything.
When I run, I look at the rivers and the sky and the forests, and I feel this everything. It feels like a collective breath in, and sigh out. Like the closest thing to religion I’ve felt.


**Title: Running as a physical addiction.**
**Page number(s): 44**

After I got into college, I spent my senior year running up and down the inclines of Jerome Jay. If you run from one end of Jerome Jay to the other and back, it’s an even four miles, but if you turn left and run until you reach the main road, the entire loop can reach up to eight. I memorized the plants in front of the houses, memorized the place where my feet made a strange sound because the road is filled in with a different concrete, and noticed the passage where the trees become so thick that for a few seconds it feels like you’re in a wind tunnel. I ran Jerome Jay regardless of the weather, my homework, friends, or whatever else was going on in my life. At school, I often felt my body longing for the unparalleled freedom and stillness of running. 
Running as a physical addiction. Running as the substance of life. Running as My Big Feeling. 


**Title: Running remained my savior in college.**

Running remained my savior in college. My elixir for all evils. I found another hill – Prospect Street – and I ran up and down every day. Sometimes I’d run twice in one day and my hair became bone dry from showering. One weekend, I ran a half-marathon.
There was no sadness or anger or loss that running could not heal. It was not so much that running fixed whatever was bothering me, but that it returned me to myself. To a feeling of power and stability and connection with nature. When my friends coupled up and found boyfriends and girlfriends to hold them, I’d wake up early and run. Yes, there was loneliness, but running was a fundamentally un-lonely feeling. I got in the habit of outstretching my arms like my dad did when I ran down Prospect Street and I felt that the world was embracing me. In this sense, running became a form of praying.
When I reported back to my dad about my runs, I swear he sounded jealous, as if I had gone to visit a mutual friend without inviting him. As a peace offering, I sent him a copy of Murakami’s book. 


**Title: During spring break of my sophomore year,**
**Page number(s): 44-45**

During spring break of my sophomore year, I returned to my Jerome Jay running route. As much as I loved the burnt orange leaves of Prospect Street, there was something about Jerome Jay that felt deeply comforting. 
On a particularly euphoric run, I veered off onto a new side street to extend my route. The sun had just set, and the sky was stained with dark blue clouds that clustered around the impossibly large mansions with their sprawling front yards. I had never been down this street before and it turned out to be a long cul-de-sac. I turned around at the end, pleased with my extra distance and discoveries.
Then suddenly: fear. My breath caught and my body turned into tingling, screaming nerves.
An orange car with its top down drove slowly towards me. It was the only car on the street and I scanned quickly and saw no cars in driveways. Found nothing in my pockets.
The man in the front seat watched me speed up, fumble with my phone. At the last second, I hopped off the road and darted through the front yard towards the woods behind one of the houses. 
The car paused before the end of the cul-de-sac, where it meets Jerome Jay, and I thought for a second it would leave. That I had overreacted. But it re-entered the cul-de-sac, blocking my exit, and heading straight towards me. For just a moment, we made eye contact.
I sprinted deeper into the woods and called my dad and tried to breathe.


**Title: On the drive home, my dad asked questions.**
**Page number(s): 45**

On the drive home, my dad asked questions. He said he didn’t understand how this had happened. I said I was not surprised.
I stretched out my legs in the car. Left leg. Knee to nose. Right leg. Knee to nose. 
For the rest of spring break, I wanted to run, but every time I got out of my car on Jerome Jay, my heart started racing. I’d bring pepper spray, a button sounding an alarm, and a ring that converted into a knife on my finger, but I’d still spend the entire run looking over my shoulder. Every time a car passed, I’d hover my finger over 911 and plan out my escape route in my head. 
There was nothing that could be done. I asked my dad to run with me a couple of times, and I’d wait at the front door as he finished his work. I felt powerless sitting in the car next to him, like a child that needed a chaperone just to go outside. I felt ashamed of being so upset. 


**Title: At school, I began running with friends.**

At school, I began running with friends. Our chatter fueled my legs further than they could take me alone, but the next day, the urge to run by myself remained, like a small but persistent plant begging to be watered.
So just weeks after the incident at home, I ran up Prospect by myself, weapons in hand. Running became a new sort of prayer – don’t kill me, don’t kill me– I would chant at every passing car, readying my pepper spray, my friend’s phone number already dialed in. Please – the car slowing beside me – punish me some other way.
I felt small, staring up at the empty sky, my feet pitter-pattering down the sidewalk. My heart dangled a few feet in front of me, a large tangle of blue tissue and feelings and veins.
Running as a reckoning. As a way of pleading with God and being answered, with my life, again and again and again.
One afternoon, a few miles away from campus, a car with one man inside pulled over beside me. This is it, I thought. There is no one else here and no woods to hide in. Somehow it felt expected, inevitable. I waited.
Coincidentally, a friend texted me, asking what I was doing and I frantically tapped out a response. She stayed on the phone with me, as I ran into someone’s backyard, and called an Uber back to campus. 
Back in my room, I thought I had misjudged the situation. The car had probably been harmless. But the big ball of blood and veins groaned out. Something was wrong. Is there something you believe in? Anything?
I sat down at my desk and returned to my classes.


**Title: Running as just another ritual.**

Running as just another ritual.
In “Writing Down the Bones,” Natalie Gold-



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Meera Rothman**
**Page number(s): 46-47**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
berg compares writing to a meditation. Through 
the practice of it, the steady ritual, a writer learns 
to trust herself. The practice of sitting down every 
day, of filling stacks of notebooks with scribbles 
that will never be published is a practice in self-
trust, in mind-body synchronicity. 

“It is undirected and has to do with all of you 
right in your present moment,” she writes. “Think 
of writing practice as loving arms you come to 
illogically and incoherently. It’s our wild forest 
where we gather energy before going to prune 
our garden...It’s a continual practice.”

Like Murakami, Goldberg identifies the 
incredible similarity between writing and run-
ning. In fact, she finds them similar to any other 
immersive practice. Running could be subbed 
out for dancing, praying, mindful walking.

I stand in front of my dormitory bathroom mir-
ror, brushing my teeth. The brush makes little 
foams of toothpaste on each tooth, a coating to be 
swished away with water. I try to empty my mind. 

I have read six of Murakami’s books and doz-
ens of his short stories. I even taped a picture of 
him to my wall at home last winter break. My 
printer was jammed, so I went to the FedEx near 
my house and asked for the cashier’s help to print 
on off-white cardstock for an extra 99 cents. We 
watched together as the paper emerged from the 
printer – materializing, inch by inch, the over-
inked image of an old man running. 
“Who is that dude?” the cashier asked me. 
I told him and he asked if I read a lot and 
where I went to school. I think he may have been 
flirting with me but I’m not sure.

I’ve been noticing lately the way Murakami 
portrays women in his books. His stories are usu-
ally about a solitary male protagonist embarking 
on a mystical journey. On that journey, women 
are objects of mystery, vessels for the protagonist 
to liberate himself sexually, and accomplices to 
guide him towards clarity at the end of the novel. 
I know this because I did a deep-dive into all the 
Internet criticism one night. 

I wish I hadn’t, though, because it makes me 
feel weird every time I look at the picture on 
my wall. Murakami’s gait looks steady, and his 
expression is earnest, like he is seeking something 
far off on the horizon. Even when I took down all 
the other pictures, I still left his up. 

These days, I run sometimes. I joined the club 
swim team at school, and we practice two nights 
every week. I lose myself following the speckled 
blue line on the pool’s floor, comforted to hear 
the splashes of my teammates in the lanes beside 
me. I walk home from the gym at ten o’clock, my 
hair dripping a cool stream down my back, and 
turn the shower to the hottest it goes.      

At home, I run side-by-side with my dad, 
pounding our feet in rhythm along the road. We 
rarely talk about what running means to us these 
days – it is too much, like drawing the ocean with 
a Crayola box – and yet I know that running is 
both of our crucibles, no longer pure magic for 
me, but still worshipped in the depths of our 
innermost minds.

Sometimes, when I am feeling – confused, 
alone, brave – I set off by myself. I don’t venture 
too far off campus, at most a mile in any direc-
tion, before the houses become sparse and the 
blue-light boxes stop. When I return, I spread 
my arms wide, no matter how many people are 
around to see.

—Meera Rothman is a senior in Benjamin 
Franklin College and an Associate Editor.
Running as a reckoning. As a way 
of pleading with God and being 
answered, with my life, again and 
again and again.



Truth
History
Democracy
Hear from some of the most outstanding 
journalists in the world and gain insight into 
the media and its role in contemporary culture.
poynter.yale.edu

