Publication date: 1999
Volume: [Volume number not specified]
Issue number: [Issue number not specified]

**MASTHEAD:**
- **Publisher:** justin Stults
- **Editor-in-Chief:** Lzink RuJicow
- **Managing Editors:** Dank/ KL/bim, jasial Wintn'
- **Designer:** HriJhiltesh HiTWIIJ
- **Production Manager:** David S/ij/«1
- **Business Manager:** ]u/iaLu
- **Online Editor:** john Bull«lt
- **Accounts Manager:** Navin Mangkmi
- **Associate Editor:** Eli /Gntisch
- **Research Directors:** Michael Gubtr, Atulrnu Youn
- **Circulation and Subscriptions Manager:** RonmGifJ()ny


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- The Chosen People - Daniel Brook
- Alma Water - Ian Blecher
- Tempest in a Teacup - Ben Smith
- Interior Design - Jennifer Ludwig
- The Silent Treatment - Eli KINTISCH
- Spies Like Us - Michael Gerber
- The Ball Game - Dan Kellum
- Raw Talent - Jada Yuan
- Between the Vmes: LocaJ Flavor - Jessica Winter
- T he Critical Angle: Definition of a Madman - John Swansburg
- Endnote: Girls, Girls, Girls - Ronen Givony


**Title: The Chosen People**
**Author: DANIEL BROOK**
**Page number(s): 8**

jews have reached the promised land of academia: tenure at Yak. Now 
they're debating their responsibility to help other groups reach the top. 


**Title: Alma Water**
**Author: IAN BLECHER**
**Page number(s): 14**

You can't argue taste, but if you're a University, at least you can bottle it. 


**Title: Tempest in a Teacup**
**Author: BEN SMITH**
**Page number(s): 16**

How did a troubled man of letters break 
the Elizabethan Club's unwritten rules?


**Title: Interior Design**
**Author: jENNIFER LUDWIG**
**Page number(s): 22**

Photography of domestic spaces explores the isolation of living alone. 


**Title: The Silent Treatment**
**Author: Eu KINTISCH**
**Page number(s): 26**

To create a close-knit brotherhood, one Latino 
fraternity cuts off ties to the larger Yale Community. 


**Title: Spies Like Us**
**Author: MICHAEL GERBER**
**Page number(s): 31**

The CIA's current recruiting efforts indicate that its 
privileged relationship with Yak may be a thing of the past. 


**Title: The Ball Game**
**Author: DAN KELLUM**
**Page number(s): 34**

Debutante balls are being refashioned to fit 
a culture that tbJesn't wear kid gloves. 


**Title: Raw Talent**
**Author: ]ADA YuAN**
**Page number(s): 38**

In japan, sushi chefi face a long and arduous apprenticeship, 
but in New Haven, they can get rolling fast. 


**Title: Between the Vmes: LocaJ Flavor**
**Author: jESSICA WINTER**
**Page number(s): 41**

[No text provided on this page]


**Title: T he Critical Angle: Definition of a Madman**
**Author: jOHN SWANSBURG**
**Page number(s): 44**



**Title: Endnote: Girls, Girls, Girls**
**Author: RONEN GIVONY**
**Page number(s): 46**



**Title: Untitled**
**Author:  Various**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
4 
The New Journal thanks 
Bill Bascus 
Eva Bonime 
Scott Benton 
Fayrt Davis 
Nora Ericson 
David Foley 
Sarah Hammond 
Nicholas ]itkoff 
Rita Jules 
Emily Lebovitz 
Carl Lowendorf 
fenny" Ludwig 
Edith MacMullen 
Webster McBride 
]tan-Claude Michel 
Margaret Miller 
Peter "Georgia Pete" Norman 
Karen Paik 
Philip Pentz 
Brad Renfro 
Bill Robinson 
David Slade 
Aimee Shu 
Tamara Sussman 
Karl Tupper 
Marryr the Younger 
Gwin Schroder Whitt 
Barbara & Big Jerry De Winter 
Groucho Marx once said he would never join a club that would 
have someone like him for a member. While we scoff at those 
exclusive groups which confront us in our everyday (and not so 
everyday) lives, we cannot help but question ourselves and those 
groups of which we are so clearly not a part. And, once in this 
exclusive circle, we often try to-downplay the inherent exclusion in 
which we participate. How many times have you responded 
''Connecticut" when asked which school you attend? That vaunted 
goal of Yale-dom, one which we have all sought at one time or 
another, transforms from innocent over-achievement into its own 
brand of exclusivity. We become more conscious of it every day 
when we speak with friends from home or read the papers 
detailing how Mother Yale is not without her biases. But exclysivity 
is far from limited to groups. It permeates every tier of culture, 
from both above and below. 

Would you have picked up "The Inclusive Issue?" Most would 
have passed the cover off as one of any number of resident activist 
publications indicting the University for one of its many exclusive _ 
policies. What's alluring about inclusion? Certainly not much when 
it comes in the form of a magazine being distributed to thousands 
of students, all knowing that whatever exclusive exposes were 
formerly uncovered are now available to anyone willing to read 
about them. Upon seeing "Exclusive," we immediately imagine 
celebrity scandal sheets entertaining for their overt trashiness. 
Exclusivity is more exciting to read about. This issue of The New 
journal explores this sticky situation. We can say we hate 
exclusivity, but we say it with the certainty that we are still 
consciously and sometimes helplessly contributing to the very 
forces that propagate it. 


**Title: To Die For**
**Author: Andrew Young**
**Page number(s): 5**

To Die For 
J?eath be not proud, but it certainly can 
be h1p. And for the past two centuries, the 
hippest place in town co party in the afterlife 
has been the Grove Street Cemetery. 

The attraction, of course, is the exclusive 
crowd. Where else can you carouse six feet 
under with hipsters like Benjamin Silliman, 
Eli Whitney, Tunothy Dwight, Ezra Stiles, 
and the likes of Timothy Mix. What, you 
haven't heard of Timothy Mix? He's only the 
hottest OJ this side of the Housatonic. 

And let's not forget about the service. 
Anyone who's paid $4 for bottled water is 
sure to be impressed by the hand-excavated 
graves, a process chat takes about five hours of 
manual labor. As far as accommodations, you 
can rest assured that the ground six feet above 
you will be covered in quaint shrubbery and 
flanked by chirping birds year round, leaving 
no hint of the party below. 

With sucfi credentials, the Grove Street 
<?emetery is one of the most exclusive post-
life party grounds ever. The cover charge is 
$3,500 for a plot (more than four times any 
other local cemetery). And although the 
cemetery is still accepting members, only a 
few hundred out of about 15,000 spots are 
left. Be sure to book in advance: life-long 
customers say it's the only way to go. 

The hosts of this club to end all clubs are 
a husband and wife team, cemetery 
superintendent William Cameron, Jr. and 
assistant superintendent Joan Cameron. 
Gracefully aged, grayed at the edges and soft-
spoken, such a pair of guardians have an air 
of permanence and finality. They are like the 
dignified, benevolent chaperones who hang 
around to make sure nobody dances too close 
or spikes the punch. 

"We feel like we're caretakers of an 
o.utdoor museum," William says. "Isn't that 
nght, Joanie?" he asks. "That's right," she 
responds. 

"We never fight on the job," William 
continues. "We work as a team. We are like 
one person." Such romantic caretakers 
bespeak quite a pick-up scene below. 

Surprisingly, Grove Street wasn't always 
F£BRUARY 12., 1999 
regarded as the swingingest place to be. It was 
initially created on the outskirts of town to 
accommodate the overflow crowds from the 
more popular burying site at the New Haven 
Green, in the center of town. 

In the 17th and 18th centuries, the Green 
was where all the cool kids went to die and it 
filled up with astonishing speed. In less than 
two centuries, the number of bodies had 
increased so much that the graveyard crept 
across the Green. It had to be obscured from 
view with willows and other foliage much like 
the nondescript warehouse facades that mask 
many an NYC hotspot. 

Epidemics of yeUow fever in the 1790s 
li~e so many r~mors of beer-recycling: 
tamted the Greens popularity, though. When 
the death toll climbed above a hundred, 
citizens understandably got tired of looking at 
headstones and death all the time. Led by 
James Hillhouse, they banished the rest of the 
future dead to Grove Street, a new joint at 
the edge of town. Thus, Grove Street 
Cemetery started as the second-most 
exclusive burial place in New Haven. Grove 
Street was just the place you settled for when 
the Green was all sold out. 

But from these bumble beginnings, our 
familiar cemetery rose to its current position 
as the dopest graveyard in town. Both its 
location next to the prestigious Yale campus 
and its list of f.unous members contribute to 
its snobbish and exclusive feel. If, upon death, 
one is able to gain admittance, the high stone 
walls of Grove Street Cemetery provide a hip 
place to bump and grind after the grind of 
life is over. 


**Title: Public Domain**
**Author: Makiko Harunari**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

Public Domain 
I did not expect to be admitted to Yale. 
!he. ide.a of enrolling at an Ivy League 
Institution was unreal to me, a senior 
attending high school in the Netherlands. 
Yale's name carried the connotation of elitism 
and isolation; only once I became a Yalie 
myself did I become aware of its diversity. 
"There has been an increasing diversity in 
the type of high schools applicants who 
attend," Dean of Undergraduate Admissions 
Richard Shaw says. "Yale now accepts 
students who have been home schooled." For 
the class of 2002, 53.3 percent went to public 
schools, 11.9 percent to boarding schools, 
18.6 percent to private day schools, and 8.7 
percent to parochial schools. In the last 
decade, there bas been an increase in students 
attending religious schools, coupled with a 
seven percent decline in public school 
students. "This trend is not a result of Yale's 
admission policy," Shaw says. "With the 
economic prosperity, more parents are 
sending their children to private schools, and 
there bas been an erosion of the yidd rate for 
students at public schools." In response, the 
University has increased recruiting at public 
schools and boosted financial aid, hoping to 
~ 
prevent a further drop in the number of .!T 
middle-class students. 

Justin Davids (ES '0 I) would never have l 
applied to Yale had he not received the "1 01 f 
reasons to go to Yale" pamphlet in the winter ~ 
of his junior year of high school. Attending 
Smithton R-6 High School, a rural public 
school in central Missouri, Davids never 
thought about going to college out of state, 
let alone a place like Yale. He became the first 
student to attend an Ivy League institution in 
his high school's 130-year history and the 
only one to go out of state in his graduating 
class. "Receiving Yale's information brochure 
was the first time I thQught about the idea of 
going to the Nonheast," he says. 

The first student in 16 years to come to 
Yale from the north Oregon coast, Becca 
Shaffer (ES '?I), _:ilio credits Yale's recruiting 
effort. Cons1dermg her high school's one 
Advanced Placement offering and less-than-
5 

rigorous curriculum, Shaffer viewed Yale as a 
dream school. Shaffer was extremely 
impressed that the Yale interviewer visited her 
house; for all her other college interviews she 
had to travel to Portland, an hour and a half 
away from her home. She was also moved by 
the phone call from the alumni coordinator 
on the day she received Yale's acceptance 
letter. "I was torn among Yale, Duke, and the 
University of Southern California, and Yale's 
efforts definitely affected my decision." 

"Many of the public schools that send 
students to Yale are magnet schools or schools 
with selective admissions," Shaw says. "Since 
the freshman class must have the common 
denominator of intelligence, we only accept 
people who are prepared to be academically 
challenged at Yale." This preparation is 
usually harder to achieve in schools with 
fewer resources, according to Shaw. This has 
not, however, discouraged Yale from 
admitting students who have o.utstanding 
records at high schools with poor resources: 
In 1967, Yale President Kingman 
Brewster wrote a letter to the Director of 
Admissions ending the favoritism towards 
private schools. The letter stated that there 
should not be "prejudgment by any 
generalized favor for particular family or 
school background." Three decades later, 
Dean Shaw keeps a copy of this letter on his 
desk. 


**Title: Junior Year Abroad**
**Author: Julia Kardon**
**Page number(s): 6**

junior Year Abroad 
Three years ago, the class of 1999 became 
the first class required to live on campus as 
sophomores. The administration created this 
new regulation to bolster the strength and 
cohesiveness of the residential colleges, and 
perhaps it has. It also has had a paradoxical 
effect, however: as all of the sophomores 
packed into the already crowded rooms of 
their colleges, they forced more of their fellow 
college members into the exile of annex 
housing. When Yalies enter the room lottery 
in the spring of each year, those with the 
lowest picks inevitably face exclusion from 
housing in their college. 

Walking across Old Campus to a suite in 
McClellan Hall, I expected to interview a 
lone annexee. Upon entering the room, 
however, I was confronted with several sofas 
full of JErs. "In JE annex housing, it's not like 
6 
you're exiled from JE," said Julia Rusinek OE 
'00), a resident of McClellan. When Rusinek 
moved into annex housing she moved with a 
sizable contingent. This year, like most years, 
over half of the junior class of JE is annexed, 
filling all of entryway A of McClellan; the 
juniors staying behind in JE are more likely 
to feel left out than those physically excluded 
from JE. "The people of JE are more 
important to me than the physical structure 
of JE," said Andrew Krause OE '00). In the 
McClellan annex he certainly has these 
people, a veritable community~ of JE 
expatriates deep in the freshman territory of 
Old Campus. The annexees all agreed that 
McClellan Hall itself is a benefit of being 
annexed; in addition to spacious rooms in 
good repair, it affords JE juniors a good view 
of the antics of the feisty freshman class. 

The environment Luis Quan (DC '00) 
finds in his annex housing could hardly be 
further from that found in McClellan. His 
apartment at 210 Park Street is the only Yale 
housing in the building; in fact, Yale does not 
even own the apartment he lives in, but rents 
it for him from a private landlord. For some, 
giving up the closeness of living in their 
residential college might be difficult, but 
Quan said that living at a slight remove 
provides "a really good balance." He is able to 
participate in the social life across the street, 
but can leave Davenport for the quiet of his 
own apartment whenever he chooses. "I've 
done berter academically, actually," he said. 

Although Quan likes his annex 
apartment, he is less glowing in his 
assessment of this Yale phenomenon than the 
JErs I spoke with. Earlier in the year, several 
other residents complained that he was 
making too much noise. Quan, who values 
his apartment precisely for the quiet it affords 
him, insisted that he was not the source of 
the disturbance. The other tenants 
complained to Davenport Master Gerald 
Thomas; Master Thomas subsequently gave 
two warnings to the confused and frustrated 
Quan and even threatened removal if the 
noise did not stop. Finally, Quan slipped 
notes under all the apartment doors in the 
building, protesting the unfair accusations 
against him and asking the source of the 
mysterious clamor to stop. The situation 
seems to be resolved now, although Quan's 
regard for the administration of his college 
has been tarnished by the experience. 

Shelby Batchelor (TO '01) resides in the 
TO annex at 370 Temple Street, across from 
the language lab. "When I told my friends 
where I was going to be living, they said, 'Oh 
no ... the Rock!'"-a reference to 370's 
similarity to Alcatraz in its isolation from 
civilization and its somewhat forboding 
facade. But I doubt that any inmates' cells in 
the infamous San Francisco Bay prison 
resembled the rooms in 370; several floors 
up, Batchelor lives in two connecting rooms 
that once served as a double. Life in the TO 
annex, despite the warnings of her friends, 
has not been an onerous exile for Batchelor, 
but an opportunity for more privacy. "I've got 
that only child thing," she said, "I need my 
own space." Three seventy does have its own 
oddities; the aged radiator makes loud 
spitting and gurgling noises and plaster 
sometimes peels away from the wall. Shelby 
sometimes wishes she lived closer to the 
exciting Yale melee, but acknowledges that 
TO, although heralded for its tight-knit 
community, isn't that close either. Like the 
residential colleges, the annexes have their 
-quirks and peculiarities; whether or not Yalies 
find life in them enjoyable depends on 
whether their own quirks match. 


**Title: Business Letters**
**Author:  (No author listed)**

Business Letters 
Wharton-watch out. Yale School of 
Management's (SOM) recent change in 
degree name from MPPM (Masters of Public 
and Private Management) to MBA (Masters 
of Business Administration) will give the 
school a new competitive edge. The new 
name back-tracks on what the SOM 
recruitment brochure has long emphasized: 
that the MPPM is not just an ordinary MBA, 
but an MBA Plus. 

Despite a change in label, the school 
intends to keep the rather exclusive contents 
of its package, according to SOM Dean 
Jeffrey Garten. "The mission of SOM will 
stay constant: to educate global leaders for 
business and society," Garten recendy wrote 
in a letter to the faculty. The school has long 
focused on the integration of the private, 
public and non-profit sectors of the economy 
and how they function together. This 
progress\ve approach has consistendy earned 
the school the number one spot in the non- · 
profit management category in US Naus anti 
World &port's Best GradU4U Schools. 

Tm NEW JoURNAL 



**Title: Yale School of Management Changes to MBA**
**Author: Navin Manglani**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
As a result, the program attracts an 
eclectic student body, not just young 
businessmen on their way to Wall Street or 
Corporate ~erica. Raised and educated in 
Italy, Annachiara Marcandalli (SOM '00) 
aspires to "go back to Italy and make a 
difference." With the recent introduction of 
the Euro, she explains, the Italian 
government will contract public spending, 
translating 
into 
splendid 
growth 
opportunities for Italian non-profits. She 
plans to return to Italy as a consultant to help 
establish corporate community partnerships. 
Other students with non-traditional goals 
include Allison Weaver (SOM '99), who will 
head into museum management, and Matt 
Larsen (SOM '99), who is honing his skills 
for the Edison Project, a private company 
which manages public schools around the 
country. 

But diversity does not stop at students' 
future goals. Not only are 30 percent of SOM 
students from abroad, but the school boasts a 
wide variety of vocational backgrounds-a 
whopping 33 percent of the students have 
worked at non-profit organizations-much 
more than at most business schools. "A real 
asset of Yale SOMis the diverse student body 
with different backgrounds, different world 
views and relatively broad definitions of what 
success is," Weaver says. 

School officials give a variety of reasons 
for the switch to an MBA this year: it will 
attract more students, help with job 
recruitment and address the requests of many 
Students and alumni. For the next three years, 
both degrees will be offered, but after three 
years, SOM will only offer an MBA Alumni 
will be able to swap their MPPMs for MBAs. 
In the business world, names matter. 
Nearly all the members of the class of 1999 
are opting for an MBA. "It is hard enough 
trying to explain in Italy what an MBA is," 
Marcandalli says. "I can't imagine what it 
would be like trying to explain to people 
what an MPPM is." Recruiters sometimes 
view the MPPM as a second-class business 
degree, not for what it truly is: "an MBA 
plus." 

Although applications for SOM won't all 
be in until March, Director of Admissions 
Richard Silverman says his office has hit the 
jackpot. "We are, so far, receiving more 
applications than last year, and we might even 
hit a record high for the school, but this was 
not unexpected," he says. "Our predictions of 
FEBRUARY 12, 1999 
an increase have proved to be just about on 
target." 

The change to an MBA will open up new 
doors for its students, at heart the school will 
still remain one step ahead in its unique 
focus. And a new degree name and an 
admissions explosion are just the beginning 
of what could be an SOM renaissance. 
-Navin Manglani 


**Title: Drop Out, Perk Up**
**Author: Krya Kammnz**

Borsodi's is a secret. The shotgun cottage 
in uptown New Orleans, across from a 
cemetery and an elementary school, bears no 
identifying sign, only a string of Christmas 
lights. Yet anyone who finds the coffeehouse 
is welcomed as an old friend. 

A man and woman in plaid flannel and 
paint-spattered jeans, with long, shaggy gray 
hair emerge from behind the creaking door 
and envelop my friend Colin with hugs and 
exclamations. Robert Borsodi kindly asks, 
"What do you do? Are you in school?" when 
Colin introduces me to him. "Oh no," I 
thought, "time to reveal myself as a member 
of the establishment." 

"Urn, I'm at Yale University? In 
Connecticut?" 

"Oh, yeah. I was there, too. What would 
you kids like to drink? Marie, I think we're 
out of whipped cream." 

This cavelike room was the last place I 
had expected to run into a son of Eli. Every 
surface is plastered with posters, flyers dating 
back to Borsodi's founding in 1978, crayon 
drawings, postcards sent from all over the 
world, handwritten quotes from Nietzsche, 
Nabokov, Paul Klee and the Grateful Dead, 
and tapestries made of old Mardi Gras 
costumes. A 50 year-old Milanese cappuccino 
maker chugs and steams like a locomotive 
behind the bar. A white dove sits in a cage. A 
fireplace faces the bar, its mantlepiece heaped 
with stones, shells, botclecaps, and feathers. 

The reader may be moved to sneer at the 
hippie trappings I've described. There were 
lots of beads and braids in the room, and 
people were trading stories about pilgrimages 
to a Rainbow Gathering. Colin and I order 
rwo Cafes Herbabuena, which is Spanish for 
mint. Borsodi begins to make them with 
astonishing deliberation. I ask him if he liked 
Yale. 

"It was all right. I used to hitchhike into 
New York City every Friday afternoon, and 
back on Sunday." He adds extract of mint to 
our cups of coffee with a chemist's 
eyedropper. 

"Oh. Well, there's a really cheap train 
now, only 12 dollars one way," I counter. 

He looks at me, amused. "Believe it or 
not, I didn't always have 12 dollars. 
Sometimes I didn't even have a couple of 
quarters for the subway, and I would walk 
hundreds of blocks." 

"What did you do in the city?" 

"Went to shows, got around, talked to 
people. I didn't care for Yale particularly," he 
says. "My senior year, I started a coffee house 
on Whalley Avenue. That continued on for 
about three weeks, and I realized I couldn't 
do both. So I left school." He unscrews the 
top of an old peanut butter jar painted in 
purple glitter and starts to spoon green 
sprinkles on top of the fresh whipped cream. 

"But I learned the most at Yale from talking 
with the people there. The professors and 
students both. I learned far more in the :t 
dining halls than I ever did in class." 

I find Borsodi's words true-the highest 
§: 
privilege of a place in a club like Yale is the 
[ 
quality of its members. Coming from a man J 
who aetually chose the creation of meeting 
places over the material benefits of a Yale 
diploma, this sentiment sounds less cliched. 

Borsodi's business cards state his address 
(he has no phone) along with his mission: 
"There should be some common ground 
somewhere, after all~ where free spirits can 
gather and not seem peculiar or out-of-the-
way. Where any-and-everyone can share for 
the moment, at least, their common human 
experience among this welter of things here 
below." I wonder ifhe learned this at Yale. 
-krya Kammnz 


**Title: The Chosen People**
**Author: Daniel Brook**
**Page number(s): 8**

Jews have reached the promised the land of academia: tenure at Yale. Now they're debating their 
responsibility to help other groups reach the top. 


**Title:  The Chosen People (continued)**
**Page number(s): 9**

I
n 1920, newly-minted Yale man Morris Sweetkind, enticed by the 
academic progress." Over the past year, the issue has come to the fore 
life of the mind, resolved to stay in New Haven while his 
in large part due to the Tenure Action Coalition (TAC), an alliance of 
classmates left to seek their fortunes elsewhere. Rather than cash 
activist organizations, cultural houses, sexual orientation groups and 
in on his prestigious degree, Sweetkind applied to pursue graduate 
the Women's Center. TAC's goal is to reform tenure procedures by 
work in Yale's English department. While other applicants waited 
expanding affirmative action policies and non-traditional departments. 
nervously for their letters of acceptance or rejection, a professor by the 
In November, Sarah Anne Minkin (MC '99) and Julie Weise (SY '00), 
name of Tucker Brooke met personally with Sweetkind to discuss the 
two Jewish members of TAC, attempted to convince the official 
status of his application. "Look, Sweetkind. You're a good student, but 
representatives of Yale's Jewish community to join the Coalition. 
we've never had a Jew. Don't apply. It's just a waste of time." 
The idea did not seem far-fetched. While Yale Hillel had 
The chilling nonchalance of the remark conjures up another Yale. 
traditionally shied away from taking stands on campus political issues, 
A Yale so clubby that being accepted as a grad student in the English 
it had become more activist of late-perhaps a sign of the level of 
department was tantamount to receiving a professorship; virtually the 
comfort Yale's Jewish students finally feel. Last year, students proposed 
entire department was Old Blue. In those days, the university was only 
that Hillel publicly support activists' efforts to cleanse Yale's financial 
nominally open to Jews, their academic status 
portfolio of the ethical stains left by 
limited to !Jndergraduate, their numbers ~r-=--~=---==----==-=-=== ..... '""ii tobacco investments. While there was 
limited to under ten percent. Graduate 
In the 1920s, the 
general agreement that Yale's position was 
school, and the world of Ivy League academia 
unethical, students could not decide on an 
that lay beyond, was still strictly off-limits. A 
University was only 
appropriate course of action. Was it 
Jew would not receive tenure on the Yale 
Hillel's role to take a stand on such an 
College faculty for another generation. 
nominally open to Jews, 
issue? If it were to do so, in whose name 
In 1946, the Philosophy department 
th 
d 
should it sign? Faced with this dilemma, 
tenured the College's first Jew, Paul Weiss, 
eir aca ernie StatUS 
the leadership divided the governing 
whose path to the ivory tower was typical of 
council into two bodies. One, the 
his generation's. Born in Manhattan's Jewish 
limite tO Un ergra Uate, 
Programming Board, would deal with 
ghetto, the Lower East Side, he studied at its 
the!· r numbers II. ml· ted to 
logistics and day-to-day affairs. The other, 
Jewish Oxford, City College, and traveled 
the Hillel Student Board, would deal with 
onward through the newly unlocked gates of 
"the bigger issues," as then-Hillel Student 
Yale's Old Campus. 
ten percent. 
Co-coordinator Justin Florence (TO '00) 
After him, the deluge. By 1970, one out 
put it. For example, this year, in response 
of every six Yale College professors was 
to the Matthew Shepard murder and the 
Jewish. When the shock waves of the 1960s finally shook Harkness 
picketing of his funeral by religious fundamentalists, the Board drafted 
Tower, anti-Jewish hiring discrimination was a thing of the past. 
an open letter condemning the acts which was published in the Yale 
While the 1972 Dahl Commission Report on Yale College called for 
Daily News. 
administration action to fill "gaps in the faculty," these gaps were 
With a forum in place to address their concerns, Minkin and 
defined as a lack of "women and disadvantaged minorities" [emphasis 
Weise presented their proposal to a Student Board meeting at the 
mine]. Despite Yale's virulently anti-Semitic past, by the '70s, 
Slifka Center for Jewish Life, a $6 million testament to Jewish 
discrimination against Jews was a thing of the past. 
integration at Yale. Before the meeting even began, the pair realized 
Despite the recommendations of the Dahl Commission and more 
they had an uphill battle before them. If only because of TAC's less 
than a dozen similar reports published in its wake, the number of 
than tactful methods-such as its megaphone-enhanced protest held 
women and racial minorities on Yale's faculty continues to lag behind 
outside President Levin's office during its representatives' meeting with 
those at comparable institutions. As the most recent study of the 
him-it became clear that Hillel would not join the Coalition. 
subject., the 1991 Jaynes Report, put it, "Yale's position and its national 
Acclimated to this fact, Minkin and Weise hoped Hillel would at least 
image in this area remains precariously close to the backwaters of 



**Title: Levin (GRD 74) and the YDN**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Levin (GRD 74) and the YDN. According to 
Florence, their argument ran something like 
this: "Jews had been historically discriminated 
against, especially in faculty hiring at Yale. 
Because of that, we had a heightened 
sensitivity or awareness to discrimination in 
faculty hiring." Indeed, the letter drew 
heavily from the history of anti-Jewish 
discrimination in hiring at Yale and was filled 
with parenthetical citations to Dan Oren's 
(MC '79) definitive history of the subject, 
joining th~ Club: A History of]ws and Yak. 
While the activists' presentation drew 
hostile criticism from a few of Hillel's more 
conservative members like Isaac Meyers (BR 
'0 1), who characterized their letter as "long 
and angry," it also failed to win over the vital 
center of liberal-minded but cautious 
students. Yale's closed tenure deliberations 
forced Minkin and Weise to rely solely on 
statistical and anecdotal evidence of 
institutionalized discrimination. While the 
evidence did have a certain power, most 
students wanted to hear administrators 
present a defense. "No one said, 'perhaps 
these statistics could be explained by a, b, and 
c.,"' Florence recalled, explaining students' 
reluctance to take decisive action as gauged 
by comments made at the meeting and a 
series of votes taken on potential responses. 
Rather than sending the original letter, the 
Student Board drafred a new letter, inviting 
President Levin to present the administrative 
position at a Hillel tea. {Levin accepted the 
invitation on the condition that he would not 
exclusively discuss tenure, but would 
comment on a range of issues.) 
But the core of the problem went deeper. 
Why was a committee of students specifically 
created to take a left-of-center stance on 
tobacco investments balking at supporting 
tenure reform? In their original letter and 
presentation, Minkin and Weise hoped to use 
Jewish history at Yale to impel their 
community to take action. In doing so, they 
took a page from Friedrich Niet7.sche's 
philosophy of history-only when certain 
historical facts are selected and strung 
together to tell a particular story can they 
spur people to take a stand. But while the 
activists' letter highlighted historical 
similarities, their audience could not help but 
think of differences. Newly-elected Student 
Co-coordinator Sophie Oberfield (SY '01) 
summed this objection up well. "The parallel 
is a little problematic. It just isn't the same 
THE NEW JoURNAL 






--- Page 11 ---

thing. Jews were once kept out [officially)." 
But with respect to women and minorities, 
Oberfield said, "It's not a policy. The [anti-
Jewish] poli<:1was broken and now it's not an 
issue anymore, but this isn't a case where you 
can look at a policy and say, 'Hey, that's 
discriminatory, it's written.' It's a case of 
alleged discrimination that isn't in the rules 
but in the process. And that's a big 
difference." The activists realized their 
audience demanded a stronger parallel than 
they could provide. "They wanted evidence 
of overt discrimination, and I don't think 
there is overt discrimination. And I think we 
were in a position of having to argue that 
there was," Minkin said. 
Dan Oren, who now teaches psychiatry 
at the Yale Medical School, echoes Oberfield's 
remarks. "There is a world of difference 
between the 1990s and the 1920s, '30s, and 
As the story of Morris Sweetkind illustrates, 
matters rarely came to that. The Ivies 
generally nipped their potential Jewish 
problem in the bud. Denying qualified Jews 
spaces in their graduate schools ensured that 
universities would rarely have to deny a 
clearly qualified Jew a place on their faculties. 
In an age when an Ivy League PhD was a de 
facto requirement for an Ivy League faculty 
post, there were simply very few "qualified" 
Jews. While top graduate schools today have 
affirmative action programs in place, they still 
have low numbers of minority students, 
especially in certain areas. For example, in 
1995 blacks received only 1.5 percent of all 
PhDs conferred in the physical sciences. 
Surely there are no overt messages telling 
blacks not to do graduate work in these fields, 
but there may be tacit messages sent out by a 
still-prejudiced society. That unspoken cues 
'40s. In the first rr====-- ==============iJ influence girls to 
abandon math 
and science during 
early adolescence 
is well-established. 
It is also possible 
that the historical 
oppression that 
kept 
America's 
minorities poor 
and uneducated 
encouraged this 
generation's 
"talented tenth" to 
half of this century 
the 
university 
administration, the 
deans and the 
faculty of all the 
schools 
were 
virtually all .white, 
Anglo-Saxon, male 
Protestants. Now 
that's a stereotype, 
but that accounts 
for maybe 90 or 95 
percent of the 
bunch. Today you 
can look at the 
Why was a committee 
of students specifically 
created to take a left-of-
center stance on tobacco 
investments balking 
. 
at supporting 
tenure reform? 
faculty and there is far more diversity. Is it a 
perfect diversity? Certainly not. But today, 
the community is very different. Much of the 
discrimination against Jews back in the '30s 
was a discrimination against people who were 
not part of the community and was born out 
of a disdain for Jews. I don't think that today 
one could make a credible case that there is 
significant disdain for women or minorities 
among the faculty because indeed there are 
many women and minorities who are among 
the faculty at this point. So it's not the same 
level of outsider versus insider situation that 
is was 70 years ago." 
Still, a case can be made that there are 
some legitimate parallels. Many of those who 
were skeptical of the analogy seemed to be 
under the false impression that, in the '20s 
and '30s, Jews kept coming up for tenure but 
were being kept out by anti-Semitic policies. 
FEBRUARY 12, 1999 
pursue 
more 
lucrative fields like 
medicine, law, and business rather than the 
underpaid and over-intellectual world of 
academia. 
While it was the exception rather than 
the rule, even before World War II, Jews 
occasionally came up for tenure. Instead of 
appealing to overt anti-Semitic policies, 
opponents used code words to indirectly 
draw attention to the candidate's ethnic 
origins. According to Oren's book, Paul 
Weiss's faculry nemeses derided him as "a 
caricature of the all-knowing and pushy Jew," 
a man unfit for entrance into Yale's polite 
society. Oren writes, "As long as a Jew could 
not have been a 'gentleman,' he could not 
have been part of a society of gentleman 
scholars." Critics of the tenure process cite 
similar anecdotes in which they claim male 
members of tenure committees have opposed 
female candidates' tenure bids, claiming their 
Malaysian "fusion'' cuisine 
Lunch 
( 
LAUNDROMAT 
One stop laundry center 
BIG WASHERS 8/. FAST DRYERs 
3 HR. WASH, DRY 8/. FOLD 
DRY CI.EANING • SHIRT SEilvic£ 
SPo'n.EssLY CLEAN • PARKING 
2 LocatiOllS -
Open 7 days 
160PARII ST. 
(coraer ol ~) 
776-SUO 
8am-l0pm daily 
II 
.. ·
.·.· .. 
.· 
. . . 
•.
-. 
:.: .·
.-


**Title: Untitled**
**Author:  [No Author Listed]**
**Page number(s): 12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
12 
"pushiness" makes them difficult to work 
with. "It's a code word for 'assertive woman,' 
what is considered unacceptable in a 
woman," according to Minkin. 

But anti-Semitic code words were not 
always personal; some were ostensibly 
academic, as TAC maintains may be the case 
today. Before the 1950s Yale's English 
department excluded Jews because the 
department felt Jews' lack of faith in the New 
Testament undermined their ability to 
understand the English literary tradition for 
which it is a canonical text. While today this 
appears an obvious rationalization of anti-
Semitism, might modern day hostility 
towards new forms of scholarship also mask 
prejudice? Members of the TAC think so. 

They cite an anecdote from a reform-friendly 
professor who recently served on a tenure 
committee reviewing a female candidate. 
According to TAC members, the professor 
told them she decided not to bring up the 
candidate's feminist · scholarship for fear of 
provoking a "gender backlash." But Paula 
Hyman, a tenured professor of American 
Jewish history since 1982 (fact check), adds a 
caveat, explaining that there is "a fallacy 
connected with the idea that people through 
their ethnicity or gender offer representation" 
of their particular group. Not everyone 
charting new academic territory is a woman 
or minority. Hyman gives the example of "a 
Jewish male in Religious Studies who was 
doing some pretty radical stuff. Before he 
[was up for] tenure, he wrote a book called 
God's Phallus-probably not the kind of 
book you should write btfort you get 
tenure-and a lot of people didn't think it 
was good or defensible scholarship." The 
candidate did not get tenure. 

Minkin recognizes that there are 
problems with drawing these parallels but 
insisted that the Jewish community ought to 
support tenure reform regardless. In fact, she 
presented a strong argument that btcaust the 
situations are different, different solutions-
like affirmative action-are needed. "The 
Jewish situation is different from other 
groups,'" she said. "Sometimes Uews assume] 
the comfortable political pose of 'Well, we're 
Jewish, we're different, so we didn't benefit 
from wpite privilege.' Not true, not fair. 
We've been 'white' in this country since at· 
least 1950 in terms of being allowed to move 
our to the suburbs while black people have 
had to stay in the urban centers." That the 
THE NEW JouRNAL 


**harsher American experiences of blacks, and presumably other groups**
**Author: Daniel Brook**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
harsher American experiences of blacks, and 
presumably other groups, warrant stronger 
remedies than were needed for Jews may be a 
stronger defense of affirmative action than 
trying to dc'iw a Jewish-minority parallel. 
Still, it was not an argument well-suited to 
Hillel. 
Jewish students raised on 
grandparents' stories of anti-Semitism may 
chafe at the notion that they were the 
beneficiaries of "white privilege," even if the 
claim has some truth to it. 

A similar sentiment was expressed by 
Oren. Despite his understanding of the 
differences between the two situations, he 
agreed with the general goal of increasing 
diversity and even spoke favorably of the 
activists' original letter, the one the Student 
Board rejected. Rather than draw a parallel 
between Jews' history at Yale in this century 
and that of women and minorities, Oren 
invoked ancient biblical history. "A Jew is 
instructed to remember that he was once a 
slave in Egypt and that he was delivered from 
slavery," he said. "So the idea of siding with 
the underdog and fighting for truth and 
justice is a very strong tradition within 
Judaism." 

Explaining the Jewish commitment to 
social justice, former Hillel Student Co-
coordinator Claire Sufrin (CC '00), like 
Oren, referred to biblical imperatives. She 
recalled Exodus 23:9, a passage that for her 
"says it all": "You shall not oppress a stranger, 
for you know the feelings of the stranger, 
having yourselves been strangers in the land 
of Egypt." Perhaps the tenure activists' hopes 
of winning Hillel's support lay in 
emphasizing the analogous fttlings of being 
an outsider at Yale, and not in trying to 
construct a somewhat dubious historical 
paralld. For no two situations in history are 
truly analogous; there will always be facts that 
do not match. In taking a stand, it is often 
necessary not to dwell on such facts. As 
Nietzsche wrote, "Forgetting is essential for 
action of any kind"-Tenure Action 
included. 
om 
DIUiiel Brook, a junior in Davmport Colkgt, is 
f»> tiN staff of TN]. 
FEBRUARY 12, 1999


**ALMA WATER**
**Author: Ian Blecher**
**Page number(s): 14, 15**

14 
THE NEW JouRNAL 

go to Yale. We iron "Y"s like gang-signs on the woolly 
sweaters we tie around our necks. We shop at the "Yale" 
Bookstore. We eat, no, we dine at Mory's. And what do 
we drink? Well, sure, we drink beer. But what do we 
drink when we're dehydrated from drinking beer? You got it: Yale™ 
Spring Water, the exclusive beverage of Yale University. But is Yale™ 
Water Yale's water? Are we so true to our alma mater's blue wishbone 
that we can taste it? 
I decided to find out. 
So one windy February afternoon, I donned my 0. Press) bow-tie 
and my (Barrie Boaters, Ltd.) shoes and made my way to the Yale™ 
Post Office. And there, next to Snow Job's eager promotional team, I 
called school spirit from its postal beyond. In one set of cups, marked 
"X," I poured New Haven tap water. In a second, marked "Z," I 
poured Yale™ Spring Water, and a third, marked "0," I filled with 
Princeton ™ Stadium Water (smuggled out of Jersey by a New journal 
operative). Harvard doesn't have bottled water, so, for the purposes of 
my survey, Princeton does matter. Aside from their hydro-preference, 
students reported their gender, year, and whether they regularly 
consume Yale™ Water. 
Pretty soon we got our first scientific result! Most Yale students 
surveyed said they would not submit to a blind taste test of lukewarm 
Ivy water. 
Eventually, though, the Snow Jobbers bored of their 
Whiffenpoof~ry and took the challenge. 
The incredible conclusion? Yale students prefer to drink water 
from cups marked "0." UnfortUnately for our experiment, this means 
that Princeton wins. On average, Yale students prefer it about ten 
percent more than the home Bow. The good news is that the women 
fEBRUARY 12, 1999 
of Yale have remained true to their school just like they would to 
their ... Anyway, they're relatively indifferent to Princeton, ranking it 
about equally with Yale. Men, however, prefer Stadium Water by about 
20 percent. A glimmer of hope: apparendy, our water is an acquired 
taste. Respondents who claimed to drink Yale™ Water regularly 
actually preferred it to Princeton's, where the uninitiated chose 
Princeton ™ Water about 29 percent of the time. 
I don't know about you, but something seems fishy about these 
results, and it's not the water; no fish could live in New Jersey's 
poisonous sludge. We're talking about the state that has violated the 
Clean Drinking Water Act more than any other. There's no way in hell 
their sludge beats our sludge. Where is this Princeton Spring anyway? 
The snow-capped peaks of Newark? The natural spas of Elizabeth? 
The hidden valleys of Fort Lee? 
The answer may shock you. Princeton ™ Water is not from New 
Jersey. It's from the Catskills, in upstate New York. Worse, there's 
nothing Princeton about it (except that it's a fraud). The whole 
operation is outsourced to a mysterious conglomerate called "Leisure 
Time Spring Water," which owns the spring and slaps "Princeton" 
labels on a few of the hordes. How fabulously exclusive. Yale ™ Water, 
as we all know, comes from Willington in our good old Constitution 
State. No shady subcontracts. Just smooth, fresh spring water that 
happens to taste vaguely sebaceous. 
So Princeton won. But they had to cheat to bring it off. How sadly 
typical. I think maybe I'll have a beer. 
IBIJ 
Ian Blecher, a junior in Davenport College, i.s on the staff of TNJ. 
15



**Title: TEMPEST IN A TEACUP**
**Author: BEN SMITH**
**Page number(s): 17-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
How did a troubled man of letters break 
the Elizabethan Club's unwritten rules? 
Elizabahan Club Constitution, Artick Xl/L Section 7 
~y mn{lbn- may b~ cmsured, suspmded, or ncp~lkd, for caus~. by a 
vote of three-fourths of the Board of Governors ... " 
first time in the Lizzie's history, formally suspending a member for a 
period of at least six months. 
The member (we'll call him Allan North), an English major, poet 
and intellectual, received the club's traditional letter of welcome in the 
beginning of the 1970s, during his junior year. In late August of 1998, 
another letter on Elizabethan Club stationery summoned him to the 
Orange Street law offices of Jacobs, Grudberg, Belt & Dow. There, in 
early September, the club's Governors explained to the alumnus that 
his unusual behavior had forced them to hold the constirutionally 
required formal hearing and to begin the process which might lead to 
censure, suspension, or expulsion. The club's vice president, librarian 
Patricia Willis, then read a series of charges, a wimess to the event says. 
North's sole breach of club rules appeared to be 
a single occasion on which he smoked a 
cigarette in the club. The essence of the charges, 
however, was his transgression of the old-
fashioned decorum so important to the Lizzie's 
character: his conversational intrusiveness, his 
violation of members' personal space, and his 
imposition on the dub's live-in steward, Leslie 
Landgraf. North spoke in his own defense, 
denying some charges and promising not to 
repeat others. Though he had been visibly 
battling mental illness, over the course of the 
semester, he appeared impressively composed to 
at least one Governor, George Raine UE '96 
I.AW '00). 
Over a week later, on September 15, the full Board of Governors 
met on the club's second floor, seated on comfortable armchairs 
beneath a portrait of Wtlliam Shakespeare in 
a dark, book-lined room. The Board, whose 
members are elected to serve one- and two-
year terms, administers the club's day-to-day 
affairs. Its current president, Emeritus 
Professor of English George Hunter, opened 
the meeting in his Glaswegian accent, and 
then gave way to the heads of the Social, 
Admissions, and other committees for their 
reports. As the Board's six undergraduate 
members, none of whom had been privy to 
the previous week's hearing, sat in silence, the 
older members of the board discussed what 
was to be done with North. He had been 
using the Lizzie for its intended purposes-
only too often, artd too much. 
"The Lizzie's practice is to rule by 
consensus," says Raine, an active Governor 
whose devotion to the club and careful 
manners make him an ideal member. But 
that day the Board moved toward consensus 
through an atmosphere marked by controlled 
tension. Beinecke curator Stephen Parks (SY 
'61), the club librarian and a dominant figure 
at the Lizzie, spoke vehemently against 
allowing North to return, and was seconded 
by a graduate student Governor who 
appeared to feel personally threatened by 
him, according to two undergraduate Board 
members. By the same account, two other 
Governors, who had met privately with 
North on several occasions, spoke in his 
defense: Raine and surgeon-turned-author 
Richard Selzer, the chairman of the Board of 
Incorporators, the body that holds the dub's 
ultimate power. 
The meeting's outcome was a blunt letter, 
composed joindy but signed by vice president 
Willis. "Three-fourths of the Board of 
Governors voted to suspend you from the 
club for six months, that is until March 15, 
1999," a late draft of the letter informed him. 
"During the period of your suspension," it 
continued, "you are to make no use of the 
Club House. An envelope, stamped and 
addressed to the Club, accompanies this letter 
for the purpose of your returning your key 
for the duration." 
Phrased in the Lizzie's courteous, 
conservative style, the letter gave no reason 
for the suspension, and offered no 
consolation. But North now says that he 
needed no explanation: his behavior had 
challenged one of those unwritten rules that 
keep the Flizabethan Club the last bastion of 
an earlier, more decorous Yale. 


Unwrittm Rule: Don't gtt pmonal 
Late in February of 1998, North 
returned to his dub. He says that he 
had stopped by occasionally during his 
more than 20-year absence from Yale, but 
now he was moving back to New Haven. He 
requested a new key from Leslie, the quiet, 
well-liked steward, and put down a $2 
deposit. North's tweedy dress, politely 
aristocratic manner, and conservative aspect 
matched the dub's atmosphere. However, the 
new face and unusual manner also stood out 
among the club's regulars. 


Upon receiving the key, he entered a 
building that had changed litde since he had 
last been there-one Governor recalls the 
impassioned responses to a suggestion that a 
single picture be moved. The narrow entry 
hall opens on its right to a well-lit social 
room, where a side table displays copies of 
Country Lift, British Htritagt, and Tht 
Sptctator. Portia, the voice of conservative 
feminism at Yale, lies casually on a coffee 
table. At the end of the entry hall is the tea 
room, where members come from four to six 
to eat off of silver service and white table 
cloths. The weekday buffet, prepared by the 
steward, includes cookies, tea, and a rigid 
succession of sandwiches: Monday, tomato; 
Tuesday, cucumber; Wednesday, turkey salad; 
Thursday, cinnamon toast; Friday, tuna salad; 
Saturday, a choice between peanut butter & 
jelly and cheese; Sunday, date-nut bread with 
cream cheese. 


Nearly empty for most of the day, the 
building fills up around tea time with 
members who include faculty, students, staff 
and alumni. On a recent Friday, tea began 
with an opening of the club's vault to display 
some of its treasures, including about a dozen 
Shakespeare quartos and a Milton first 
edition. Members sat and stood in groups, 
sipping tea and downing tiny tuna salad 
sandwiches. Two casually dressed women 
talked at the top of the stairs while a group of 
men in ties and white sweaters and women in 
dark-colored skirts and dresses gathered 
around a table in the tea room for serious 
discussion. In a room toward the back of the 
house, a professorly man spoke in an Italian 
accent to two younger women. They drank 
tea and looked out on the well-trimmed 
garden, where, in the summer, members play 
croquet under a huge bust of William 
Shakespeare. 


Perhaps cliques are inevitable in a dub 
like the Lizzie, whose application process has 
changed little in recent decades: current 
members drop letters in support of 
candidates into the dark wooden Admissions 
Committee box on a table at the left side of 
the entry hall. Candidates who receive the 
minimum of two letters are evaluated by the 
Admissions 
Committee 
for 
their 
commitment to the goals of the club. Some 
members perceive a quiet split in the dub 
between the well-dressed, often politically 
conservative students who maintain the club's 
stated purpose of literary and intellectual 
discussion, 
and the 
more 
liberal 
undergraduates who are sensitive to 
accusations of elitism and come primarily for 
the pleasant setting and free food. A junior 
woman in t-shirt and jeans is typical of those 
who are less concerned with the club's 
decorum, saying, "It's like going out to coffee 
with someone but you don't have to pay. It's a 
nice place to have, and it's no stupider than 
the secret societies." Crystal McKellar (TC 
'99), a member of the Admissions 
Committee, represents the club's conservative 
leanings: "If someone maintained their 
membership for a reason as petty as free 
sandwithes, I would be shocked and 
dismayed." 


North is among the Elizabethan Club 
faithful. "I am a great believer in decorum," 



**Title: The Case of Allan North**
**Author: Ben Smith**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
he says, explaining his acceptance of the 
suspension. He is attached to the club not for 
its sandwiches or couches, but for its 
members. "~'s a place of interesting and 
talented people with similar interests to 
mine," he says. In fact, North's behavior was a 
little too well~suited to the stated mission of 
the club: he handed out copies of his poems, 
and interrupted members' solitary reading to 
share details of his intellectual and personal 
life. "I was very self-absorbed at the time," 
North says of this psychologically difficult 
period. Another member observed, "The 
Lizzie is for polite conversation, simple 
conversation, to hear more than that got on 
people's nerves in numerous ways." 


By the time the Board of Governors met 
on April 14, 1998, some Governors had 
heard complaints that North was making the 
club an uncomfortable place. It was difficult 
to pin down concrete offenses-rather, 
members complained of unsolicited poems, 
inescapable monologues, and forays into 
uninvited, personal topics. They also 
complained that North had begun 
buttonholing them outside the club. One 
member recalls being put off when North 
called her at home to invite her to tea, leaving 
the number of the club on her answering 
machine. The club steward also remembered 
that North's conversation had begun to put a 
dent in her full schedule, though she speaks 
highly of him and says that in spite of his 
apparent mental illness, "I didn't find him 
threatening." 


Most of the complaints that seem to have 
troubled the Board members came from 
women who fdt threatened by the eccentric, 
gregarious older man. No one appears to have 
alleged sexual harassment, but many female 
members felt that North put them in 
uncomfortable situations-in a club 
dominated by decorum, they had to break off 
conversations and deny requests for telephone 
numbers. As one undergraduate woman put 
it, "He was a mentally unstable man. No 
young woman's going to feel comfortable in 
that situation." Other women say they felt no 
threat from North, but several did complain 
to the Board of Governors, according to 
members of the Board 


During his first month back at the club, 
North appears to have broken only the 
subtlest of the unwritten rules which control 
behavior in the Lizzie. Some members still 
find it hard to say what exactly their problem 
FI!.BRUARY 12, 1999 
with him was. Raine recalled that although 
North was apparently fulfilling the mission of 
the club by vigorously pursuing intellectual 
discussion, "Many people just viscerally felt 
this was inappropriate." Yet, as Raine recalls, 
"It was so hard to distinguish what he was 
doing from what anyone else was doing." 


Unwritten Ruk: Don't slup on tht couches 


S 
pring break came and went, the 
uncomfortable episodes became more 
frequent; the month of April saw what 
North now recalls as a few very difficult 
weeks. Kirk Swinehart (GRD '01), a member 
and graduate student in American Studies, 
remembers him as "a dazzling raconteur and 
poet of peculiar sensibility." He continues, 
"Now the Lizzie is nothing if not a place for 
raconteurs and poets, but he spoke a little too 
quickly and animatedly for comfort. It was 
clear from the first that something was not 
right, and no more so than when he forced 
his poems on you. Invariably, they were 
printed 10 an eerie, unsteady hand." 


,., 
f 
' 
rrThe Lizzie is for polite 
conversation, simple 
conversation, to hear more 
than that got on people's 
nerves., 
\ 
¥ 
I 


Swinehart says he accepted a copy of one 
poem, and some months later the author 
asked him to pay for it. 


By the time the Board met on May 5, 
North's awkward conversation and unwanted 
poems had given way to requests for money 
and what most saw as more open abuse of 
membership privileges. Several members 
noted that his dress had deteriorated, and 
that he was spending almost every possible 
moment in the club. They also noticed that 
he had begun to violate one of the club's 
many tacit rules, and was seen napping on 
the couches. "There are certain things in the 
Lizzie that you just don't do," Lilly Tuttle 
(PC '00) says. "It's different from crashing on 
a couch in Sterling Library-I would never 
feel comfortable sleeping on the couches at 
the Lizzie." 


The Lizzie is open to guests of members 
on Thursday through Sunday, and North 
would sometimes invite student Duff Monon 
(TC '00), a Religious Studies major whom he 
had met after his return to Yale. They made a 
conspicuous pair-the wiry, often disheveled 
student and the increasingly worn member-
often sitting together at the table in the 
center of the tea room, discussing personal 
and intellectual issues under the club's 
dominant decoration, a large portrait of 
Queen Elizabeth I. "Mr. North is one of the 
most articulate, talented people I have ever 
met in New Haven," Duff recalls; he also 
remembers that his friend once brought him 
on a members-only day, leading to an 
uncomfortable reprimand. 


Unwrittm Ruk: Don't rely on th~ Lizzie 


"I would stress the minomess of the incident 
and the appropriateness with which it was 
handled. I have good things to say about the 
club and the Board of Governors. I am 
certainly not disgrunded, and gossip seems to 
have blown things our of proportion." 


"In a way, he was the ultimate Lizzie 
person," Duff Morton says. And North 
appears to remain so, commenting 
appreciatively even on his suspension, "The 
committee was quite tactful." Like many 
members who refused interviews, he places a 
high value on discretion and propriety. Before 
politely showing me to the door of his long-
term residence to conclude our first brief 
meeting, he used the same words as Stephen 
Parks, who strongly objected to this story: 
'1t's entirely private club business." 


During his months of growing 
disorientation1 and his weeks of intense 
illness, North had come to rely on his club to 
W
e would normally have met at the 
an extent that was, quite simply, indecorous. 
Lizzie, but as North has more 
He expressed his growing disorientation in 
than a month until his suspension 
. the Elizabethan Club that he imagined 
can be lifted, we spent half an hour on a 
existed for him, a place that could meet his 
recent Thursday night at a small white table 
obsession with the conversation and company 
in Ashley's Ice Cream Cafe on York Street. I 
of fellow intellectuals. Lacking psychological 
sipped a milk shake 
A 
stability and 
still 
while he spooned his 
looking 
for 
a 
vanilla ice cream with 
permanent residence, 
strawberry sauce and 
''[ 
l 
h 
North had begun to 
fingered 
a heavily 
n a pace t at 
use the Lizzie as a 
annotated copy of A 
d 
/{ 
b 
home. 
Th~ory of Lita-atu" by pri eS itse On eing 
"In a place that 
Rene Wellek and Austin 
prides irself on a sense 
Warren. The wilder 
decorOUS~ ifs difficult 
of 
decorum, 
it's 
elements 
the 
difficult to accuse 
Elizabethan 
Club tO aCCUSe SOmeone of someone of being 
rumor 
mill 
had 
indecorous," Raines 
suggested that this man 
being indecorOUS. ~' 
says. In a club selected 
might 
be 
actively 
from the elite of the 
threatening, a deliberate 
-Board of Governors elite, no one imagined 
harasser 
who 
was 
that such a problem 
detached from reality. 
member George Raine could arise-at first, no 
When I 
nervously 
one knew if the 
dropped my notebook 
constitution 
even 
under the table, he 
T 
contained provisions 
returned it to me with a 
handling 
smile. 
situation, a Board member recalls. But 
North cringed to recall the weeks in April 
following the club's January 21 meeting, 
when his personal demons, of whatever 
Hunter, the president, said he anticipates that 
variety, got the better of him. "It was a blip, a 
North will be conditionally reinstated in 
lacuna in my life," he now says, a native 
March. "Before we come to a decision, we· 
speaker of the club's literary idiom. Putting 
have to talk to him and see the conditions to 
aside his distress at the very existence of this 
which he would agree," he said. "We haven't 
article, he began to advise me on its contents: 


Unwrittm Rule: Don't look at the clock 


he bathroom on the Lizzie's second 
floor .is furnished as it has been for 
decades. The ornate, low porcelain 
bowl has a wooden seat, and a red rug only 
partially conceals wooden floorboards. The 
wall behind the toilet is papered with a black 
and white print of pocket-watches, while the 
other walls are papered, also in black and 
white, with a jarringly campy set of quotes on 
the theme of time. 


With the passage of history neatly 
confined to the bathroom, the Elizabethan 
Club attempts to maintain its unchanging 
attachment to the serene Yale of a vaguely 
remembered past. If the suspended North 
keeps his use of the dub within its limits, and 
restrains his appetite for its refined society, he 
will probably get his key back. Yet as blue 
jeans appear more and more frequently, and 
as so many members admit that their primary 
interest is the free sandwiches, the club is 
gradually moving away from the old Yale that 
its conservative members so admire. The 
dose-knit social and literary society which 
Yonkers carpet maker Alexander Smith 
Cochran imagined in 1911, and which Allan 
North envisioned again in the spring of 
1998, no longer really exists, if indeed it ever 
did. If he is reinstated in March, North can 
stand with the rest of the Lizzie faithful in the 
losing battle to maintain a perfect, impossible 
history of Yale. 


1111 
Allan Nt»ih is a ps~nym. 
Bm Smith, a senwr in Mone College, is on the 
staff of 1NJ. 
FEBRUARY 12, 1999 


**Title: INTERIOR DESIGN**
**Author: Jenny Ludwig**
**Page number(s): 22**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
When I was five the black dreams came; Nothing after was quite 
the same ... When my silent terror cried; Nobody, nobody replied ... .! 
got up; the chilly sun/ Saw me walk away alone." 
Autobiography, Louis MacNeice 
"Exclusive photographs" evokes stacks of yellowing National 
Enquirm. But these domestic landscapes capture exclusion itSelf. I 
took these photos during the year my parents' house stopped feeling 
like home. I was living alone for the first time, and a picture I took of 
my own apartment led to this series. 




**Title: THE SILENT TREATMENT**
**Author: Eli Kintisch**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
To create a close-knit brotherhood, one Latino 
fraternity cuts off ties to the larger Yale community. 
I
t was about 2 am four years ago when Angel Falcon (ES '99) 
threw open his door and stormed into his freshman suite. He 
hurled his keys angrily against the wall and cried out. This was a 
surprising reaction from the even-tempered Falcon, a cry of 
anguish tearing into the cold serenity of yet another dreary February 
night. Angel's roommate found him lying face down on the bed. The 
letters on the back of Falcon's yellow hooded sweatshirt read 
"Caballero." Caballero Falcon was crying. 

The process of pledging Lambda Upsilon Lambda (LUL), Yale's 
Latino fraternity, had taken its toll on Falcon. He was the kind of 
freshman who, at parties, spent half the time introducing people and 
telling jokes, and the other half flaunting his salsa moves with his 
newest Latina. He rapidly earned a reputation as a merciless seducer, 
vowing at one point to "cure sexual frustration at Yale, one case at a 
time." Hew~ a headstrong and articulate player. Now, after a month 
in uniform, under LUI:s vow of public silence, his roommate found 
him disconsolate and broken. 

"That's the toughest night to talk about, it was psychological," he 
says, avoiding specifics. "Sometimes you think that you are really close 
to finishing this goal, but you are surprised that you are not even 
remotely close ... They cut us down bad." The physical and mental toll 
of pledging, or being "on line" as they call it, had similarly affected 
Falcon's two line brothers, and one Caballero had already dropped out. 
Several weeks later, Falcon would finally "cross" and become a brother, 
an Hermano. 

For each Caballero, in one way or another, pledging the nationally-
affiliated LUL is the most arduous ordeal he's ever faced. During the 
process that can last upwards of eight weeks, the line of Caballeros 
wears only white shirts, army pants, brown neckties, beige jackets and 
gold and brown armbands. At night they add hooded sweatshirts. 
While they may participate in class discussions, outside of the 
classroom and their own rooms, they are not permitted to speak with 
anyone but each other. Alcohol and drugs are strictly prohibited. Meals 
should be short. Mandatory study hours--long. Instructed to walk 
head down from class to class, Caballeros cut right angles when they 
turn. On official pledge evenings, the line studies Latino culture, 
exchanges personal histories, or endures challenging jogging and 
calisthenics workouts. Pledging Lambda becomes a Caballero's life. 

Cast among its fellow fraternities on campus, LUL bears little 
resemblance to the larger, less structured, more public Greek 
organizations. When seen marching on a path in tight formation, a 
Caballero line seems more like a centipede on a rainforest twig than a 
pack of white-hatted frat boys taking their leave from Lake Place. The 
FEBRUARY 12, 1999 
decision not to host late nights and four-keggers has been well 
thought-out. LUL is a fraternity that demands not only psychological 
discipline, but nearly an entire semester of rigorous commitment. 

It's a lot to ask of a wide-eyed freshman, bombarded daily with 
Yale's possibilities. "As a frosh, faced with all these new opportunities, 
all these decisions on what to join, I know it seems contradictory," 
Hermano Manuel Berrelez (DC '00), LUL's president, ad mits. 

"Wouldn't the last thing you'd want to do as a frosh be to alienate 
yourself from the rest of your class?" 

Perhaps that is why, from an undergraduate population of 
approximately 160 Latino men, LUL culls only a handful for each 
pledge class. Lambda stakes an extremist position on a constant 
dilemma facing minority organizations: whether to publicize 
themselves and reach out to Yale, or to encourage self-reliance and risk 
estrangement from the rest of the university. And even within the 
Latino community, LUI:s stance is one of careful selectivity. By making 
it so arduous to join, LUL aims to attract only those fully dedicated to 
the process of becoming an Hermano. 

?:" 

For Camar Graves (BK '01) the opportunity to focus on his roots f 
was instrumental in his decision to pledge last year. To him, going 
~ 
through the process was a test of ethnic loyalty. "It's like, how badly do 
you really want to help your people?" 

As president, Berrelez knows that if he wanted, he could create the 
standard shmooze and booze atmosphere of the fraternity meat-
market. "I'm convinced that if we were to rent out Naples, get pizza 
and beer, we'd have at least 25 Latinos show up," he says 

L
atino students bring with them a variety of ethnic experiences 
through Phelps Gate as freshmen. Some grew up in Hispanic 
neighborhoods, raised on a diet of tortillas, merengue and the 
Catholic Church, and found themselves as one of few Latinos in their 
Advanced Placement classes. Afrer playing the daily role of token 
Minority Success Story in their high schools, they would come home 
to Latino neighborhoods and do their homework amidst a Burry of 
Spanish. Now, after earning a place in the Yale freshman class, they're 
once again living in the ethnic climate of that AP class, only now on a 
much grander scale. "I never felt like a rnino,rity before," Hermano 
Frederico Blanco (BK '00) said. "It's something to come to grips with." 

Wendy Montoya (BR '0 1), shares the experience. "I was used to being 
in a mdting pot of people," she says of her adolescence in Houston. 
"Now I get all these emails just because I'm a minority." 

On the other end of the scale are Latinos who have long known 
the wodd of the demographic margin, arriving at Yale from affiuent, 



**Title: The Silent Brotherhood**
**Author: Eli J(ohn)sdn**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
moscly white neighborhoods or prep schools. 
Hermano Graves, for example, came from 
Greenwich, CT, and Hermano Wellington 
Veras (TO '99) from Choate. For them, 
claiming positions as minority standouts has 
become second nature. 

Here at Yale, Latinos from every 
background are brought together, from the 
suburbanites searching for an ethnic identity, 
to the kids straight from the barrio grappling 
with their new status. LUL hopes to imbue 
both with a renewed cultural pride-which 
may explain why LUL, whose letters also 
stand for La Unidad Latina, has so much 
solidarity to start with. Lambda prides itself 
on its cultural diversity, boasting first-
generation Dominicans from the Bronx, half-
Puerto Ricans from Queens, and Mexican-
Americans who know they're often 
considered too white to be Mexican and too 
Mexican to be white-a tenuous spot on the 
unspoken Chicanometer. 

Uniting its diverse constituency has long 
been a challenge for Yale's Latino community. 
"There's somewhat of an invisible line 
between Puerto Ricans and Mexicans," 
Montoya says. Seniors recall racial tensions 
from a few years ago between some of the 
Lambda brothers and individual Chicanos. 
"The dynamics were tense, hot," said 
Salvador Gallardo (DC '00), president of 
MeCHA, Yale's largest Chicano organization. 
"But right now, they get along." 

How strongly an ethnic organization can 
unify its members--and conversely how well 
that group can define itself in the context of 
its cultural surroundings-are important 
measures of its strength. For many, Greek 
letter organizations offer the right 
combination of internal camaraderie and 
campus presence. 

Since the 1906 founding of Alpha Phi 
Alpha at Cornell, a black fraternity whose 
alumni include Martin Luther King Jr. and 
Thurgood Marshall, the rise of ethnic Greek 
life has gone hand in hand with the progress 
of minorities in higher education. Although 
ethnic fraternities flourish at most schools 
with large frat populations, such as SUNY 
Albany or UCLA, it's on the grounds of 
historically black colleges such as Atlanta 
University or Norfolk State that the ethnic 
Greek system is an intrinsic part of campus 
culture. In these minority-turned-majority 
environments, when the pledges appear, or 
come "above ground," the campus crawls 
with black-clad Alphas, red-hooded Kappas, 
and arm-branded "Q-dogs," brothers from 
the legendarily brutal and secretive Omega 
Psi Phi. Thousands flock to the ethnic Greek 
step-shows, in which the rhythmic intensity 
of the dancing is matched only by the crowd's 
explosive reception. 

At Yale, while recruiting weekends, ethnic 
houses, and PROP (the minority freshman 
orientation program), have become mainstays 
of the official minority support system, a 
handful of black and Latino fraternities have 
come and gone with the enrollment tide. 
LUL first appeared at Yale in 1992. 
Historically, most ethnic frats have remained 
small-Lambda generally enjoys a line of 
under five Caballeros-and outside of the 
minority community, its events go almost 
entirely unnoticed. Lambda's fall Noche 
LUL creates 
. 
a promtnent 
public persona 
for itself-its process 
cries for attention 
through its 
very silence. 
Dorada, a publicized, elegant banquet 
featuring academic speakers and over 250 
guests from all around the country, drew no 
coverage from either campus newspaper. It's 
not that people don't notice the fraternity, it's 
that people just don't ask. 

It's 9:15 pm, and at the back of Cross 
Campus Library study hours drag on. 
Decked out in their shirt sleeves, ties and 
armbands, the Caballeros have the 
institutional sobriety of penitentiary 
bookworms. On one side of the table sit 
Caballeros Carlos Garcia (TO '0 l) and 
David Botero (BK '02). Facing them are their 
line brothers Matthew Ramon (DC '01) and 
Carlos Jimenez (MC '02). The group is 
flanked by Hermano Marcos Tuero (PC '01) 
and a few other Hermanos at a nearby desk. 
Time passes. Two girls come by to chat about 
Orgo. The Caballeros study. The girls giggle 
and the Hermanos explain. The girls leave. 
The Caballeros study. Problem sets give way 
to reading and then to labs. Study hours are 
five hours a night, five nights a week. 

Most Yalies don't know much about the 
Latino community. Many have never heard 
of DB (it's the nickname for Despierta 
Boricua-the Puerto Rican organization on 
campus) or of the Latino cultural house 
(actually there are two: La Casa Cultural Julia 
de Borgos and the Chicano Cultural Center). 
Yet the figure of the hooded pledge walking 
head down is easily recognizable. Lambda 
could very well hide its pledges away for eight 
weeks, but chooses not to. Instead, it creates a 
highly noticeable public persona for itself-its 
process cries for attention through its very 
silence. Nowhere is that silent broadcast 
louder than here, in CCL In this forum the 
pledges assert themselves as efficient, studious 
Caballeros-gentlemen. 

Silent gentlemen, that is. The verbal 
isolation, called "social probation," serves 
several purposes. "One has to do with 
symbolic historical connotations to us as 
Latinos, as a conquered, oppressed people," 
Hermano Berrelez explains. Along with this 
metaphorical quiet, social probation is a 
method of eliminating distractions, allowing 
the Caballeros to focus on nothing but 
academics and fraternity. 

With the line as their only support for 
several months, Caballeros turn their focus 
inward. "If you isolate yourself from everyone 
else, all you have is each other," Hermano 
Graves says. "You're trying to build a 
brotherhood and you're trying to share your 
lives, and your experiences and your hopes 
and your energy." The months of mutual 
solitude seal powerful bonds of friendship. 

Perhaps the best manifestation of the 
Hermanos' emphasis on brotherhood 
(Lambdas call one another Bro) are the 
Caballero armbands-each line designs its 
own insignias and wears them constantly. But 
the loyalty that develops is more permanent 
than ink on cloth. As they say on line, 
"Hermanos para Siempre." Brothers forever. 

The Hermano alumni community 
supports itself in a variety of ways. As in any 
network of connections, Hermanos report 
that unique opportunities seem to flutter 
through the window when the time is right. 
Hermano Falcon, for example, received an 
early morning phone call in November, got a 
tie and resume, and found himself at an 
interview for a lucrative job at Proctor & 
Gamble, although he had not even applied. 

For Hermano Graves, the Hermanos 
came as a godsend when academic trouble 
forced him to take a year off from school. 
"Guys were calling me from California," he 
says, shaking his head. "Everyone wanted to 
see that Camar got back to Yale." This brand 
of brotherhood, essential to leadership, is 
what the pledging process tries to foster. "We 
are teaching these men to lead," 
Hermano Tuero says. 

And lead they do. Jeffrey 
Vargas, chairman of the 
fraternity's national council, 
points 
to 
alumni 
fundraising efforts to raise 
money for victims of 
Hurricane Mitch which 
recently 
battered 
Central America and 
the Caribbean. In 
New Haven, Lambda brothers started 
AMIGO$, a mentoring program in New 
Haven classrooms. But in the minds of the 
Hermanos, these are mere gestures in 
comparison to the real community service 
that the fraternity offers-the creation of 
responsible Latino men. Several Hermanos 
have never met their own fathers-they know 
what's at stake in communities which suffer a 
lack of male role models. It seems the best 
gifts that Latinos at Yale can give to their 
communities are themselves. 

Lambda's strategy of open isolation takes 
the notion of self-empowerment to an 
in-your-face extreme. For a Caballero, 
Yale becomes nothing but an academic 
resource for months on end. Breaking away 
from the greater community, the line 
develops as a unit, without any interaction 
with Yale's larger social environment and all 
too often, without its support. 

The Yale community has, in the past, 
taken issue with the excesses of LUL's social 
probation, denouncing their method as 
standoffish and militant. Communities at a 
variety of schools with LUL chapters have 
criticized their use of evocative armbands. Yet 
it's their segregationist practices that bring the 
most ire. "Not even considering the uniform, 
the act of isolating yourself for so long is 
taken negatively by the community, both 
ethnic or not," MeCHA's Gallardo says. 

FEBRUARY 12, 1999

Michael Jimenez (DC '99), agrees. 
"Marching down like soldiers, in cadence, I 
definitely don't think it's healthy at all," he 
says. "But if those people want to do it, I 
respect it." 

While he commends the group for 
cooperating with the administration, Dean 
Edgar Letriz Nufiez, Yale's Puerto Rican 
Cultural Center Director, does not approve of 
the fraternity's pledging approach. A specialist 
in fraternity relations, Letriz Nufiez helped 
bar Lambda-style pledging during a previous 
stint at Union College, following similar 
precedents at dozens of Greek-heavy schools. 
"A pledge process that requires and imposes a 
period of silence I don't agree with," he says. 
"I consider that complete and outright 
hazing-along with alcohol infractions, 
violations of university regulations and 
physical abuse." Take any given group of 
fraternities, he maintains, and one will likely 
push the limits. 

Perhaps this was the case last spring, 
when police arrested Lambda president 
Antonio Magana (DC '98) and detained 15 
fraternity members for criminal trespass. 
Hermano Miguel Correa (ES '00) insists he 
and his brothers were "simply where we 
shouldn't have been." Yet the New Haven 
Register called the incident an initiation, 
raising the specter of hazing. 

In retrospect, though, the only lesson 
learned is that frat boys will, in the end, be 
frat boys. Like their fellow Greeks on Lake 
Place and High Street, Hermanos 
play a lot of Nintendo, hang out 
together, and try to avoid college 
stress. 

Investigation yields little 
evidence to suggest abuse. 
Simply put, becoming a 
Lambda man is difficult, 
but not painful or 
dangerous. And when 
viewed alongside the 
practices of other 
campus Greek organizations, their process 
seems refreshingly wholesome. LUL pushes 
its pledges not with excessive drinking but 
with running, marches and pushups. 

Caballeros are not forced to shame 
themselves in public but are dressed instead 
to command respect from all. For pledges, 
studying with their brothers means doing 
their homework or discussing Latino 
heritage, not poring over old test questions 
supplied by willing alumni. 

If library hours are the fraternity's 
statement to the university, then parties 
during the process are its way of sending a 
message to the Latino community. When 
Caballeros make an appearance at a fraternity 
party, heads turn. Music pulsing, the crowd 
parts as the line enters the room with their 
distinctive march, their "scroll." The 
Caballeros then stand in a close line before 
the crowd, and shout a fraternity chant. As 
the party resumes, and the crowd spreads into 
the spaces around them, the men stand on 
line, arms locked on each other, heads 
forward, faces as blank as a sheet of paper. 
The women ogle and taunt, the Hermanos 
keep watch proudly, and the temperature 
rises as the party goes into the night. 

Sweating through their shirts, ties, 
armbands, and jackets, their silence is their 
pride. "You're so amped!" Hermano Tuero 
says, recalling last year's parties. "You can't 


--- Page 30 ---

**Title: Spie& Like U&?**
**Author: MICHAEL GERBER**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Spie& Like U&? 
The CIA's current recruiting efforts indicate 
that its privileged relationship with Yale may 
be a thing of the past. 
I
f you've got a clean background, want to serve your country, and 
don't mind an occasional polygraph, there just might be a spot for 
you in the world of intelligence. The Central Intelligence Agency 
(CIA), National Security Agency (NSA), and other members of 
the United States Intelligence Community are trying to rebuild for the 
next century. And part of that process is recruiting college students. 
But enticing the next generation of spies is not as easy as it once 
was. While in the past the mere letters CIA attracted students who 
were intrigued by its mystery, the Agency is losing its glamorous 
reputation. As more of the CIA's secrets are revealed-from the failed 
assassination of Fidel Castro to the treachery of Aldrich Ames-the 
CIA's ability to bring in new blood has suffered. "The CIA definitely 
doesn't have the respect it used to have," David Bookstaber (SY '99) 
says. "More and more I'm unconvinced that they even do anything 
valuable." 

Such sentiment, especially among students like Bookstaber, a 
seemingly ideal future intelligence officer, may explain the Intelligence 
Community's recent recruiting troubles. A vocal conservative, 
Bookstaber studies computer science and mathematics on an Air Force
FEBRUARY 12, 1999 
ROTC scholarship. He is a patriotic American with technical skills, a 
liberal arts education, and military experience. The walls of his room 
are covered with pictures of the fighter jets he hopes to fly next year as 
an officer in the Air Force. But after applying for an internship with 
the NSA, Bookstaber does not see intelligence work in his future. 
"More than anything, the impression I got when I was applying was 
tedious," he says. "I'd rather be flying planes-not looking at maps, 
satellite images, or trying to pump the businessman down the street 
C) 
about what he's selling to the guy next door." 

Without the allure of espionage, intelligence organizations find 1 
themselves competing alongside investment banks and consulting f 
firms for the nation's top students. "In the past, the srudents were 
..., 
much more likely to come to us," Ken Acosta, a staffing officer at the 
~ 
NSA, says. Now, srudents can simply log on to the NSA website to 
find job descriptions, starting salaries, and application information. 
CIA advertisements in Th~ Economist, the N~w York Tim~s. and 
campus newspapers sit alongside those of Morgan Stanley and 
Andersen Consulting. Srudents now know that being an intelligence 
officer is not like a James Bond movie, so they have to be drawn in by 
more traditional means. "We've had to be 
creative," Acosta says. "It's a more difficult 
sell." 

In response to the challenge, the agencies 
are overhauling their image. These are the 
new and improved, friendlier spies. "We've 
become a lot more open in the way we do 
business," says Marie Vanderhoof, the Chief 
of College Relations in the CIA's new 
Recruitment Office. A visit to www.cia.gov 
gives a sense of the Agency's new approach. 
How could any college student tum down an 
Agency that offers the following benefits at its 
national headquarters in Langley, VA:. 
Employees can shop for an extensive 
array of quality personal and gift merchan-
dise; arrange for personal travel (air, train, 
ship}, vacation packages, and cruises; pur-
chase discount entertainment tickets: the-
aters, movies, sporting events, and theme 
parks; and utilize a handy one-day film pro-
cessing service, a dry cleaners and shoe 
repair service, and a unisex hair salon. 
"They try to talk up how nice the life is, 
how you only have to work 40 hours a week;" 
Bookstaber recalls from his NSA interviews. 
The NSA and CIA can advertise all the 
benefits they want, but the bottom line is 
salary. And that is exactly where they cannot 
compete. The best salary the NSA can offer a 
recruit just out of college is $41,000, which 
pales in comparison to most investment 
banking offers. 

Not that there has been a lack of 
applications; just last year, the CIA received 
over 25,000. But there has been a dearth of 
qualified applicants. Despite the increased 
information available about the Agency, the 
public is still generally unaware of the CIA's 
role. "A lot of people think that we're a law 
enforcement agency," Vanderhoof says. But 
until the CIA defines its role in the post-Cold 
War world, 
the 
Agency will 
be 
misunderstood. 

Although Bookstaber seems suited for 
covert operations-having recently turned 
21, he is working on his permit to carry a 
concealed weapon-he chose not to work at 
the NSA, opting instead for "a much better 
deal," a job at Microsoft. His internship at a 
large corporate fum sounds f.uniliar in today's 
Yale environment, where work in the public 
sector is not respected the way it was 50 years 
ago, when Yale and the CIA had a much 
closer relationship. 

T
he ties between Yale and the 
Intelligence Community trace back to 
a time more than 150 years before the 
CIA existed. Nathan Hale, American 
Revolutionary hero and the nation's first spy, 
spent his college days on Old Campus. His 
story now appears on the CIA Website for 
Kids: 
Armed with my Yale degree and under 
cover as a Dutch schoolmaster, I went 
behind British lines and proceeded to collect 
information. Other man my cover, I wasn't 
weU trained in me art of spying. I was cap-
tured by the British and hanged on SCptem-
ber22, 1776. 

One wonders why Hale, who was 21 at 
the time, went to war with a diploma instead 
of a concealed 
weapon; but 
his patriotic 
demise signals 
the beginning 
of a strong, 
connection 
between Yale 
and 
Intelligence 
Community. 

Yale's 
relationship 
with the CIA 
was 
unique 
even 
among 
the rest of the 
Ivy League, according to Yale History 
Professor Robin Winks' book Cloak and 
Gown. At Yale, the CIA could find students 
with travel experience, knowledge of foreign 
languages, and liberal arts educations. The 
strong history department also drew 
recruiters; analysis at the CIA focused more 
on human intelligence than on technology, so 
students with strong analytical research skills 
were most valued. 

But such qualities were found in students 
at other elite colleges. "Yale was not any 
better than Harvard," Wmks says. The key to 
Yale's influence was tradition. Once Yale 
alums took prominent roles in the 
development of the CIA, they guaranteed 
that Yale would have a significant role-Yalies 
tend to suppon their own. So more students 
were recruited from Yale, who in turn 
recruited more. At one point, even the Yale 
crew coach was on the CIA payroll to recruit 
potential operatives. 

In the 1960s, all this changed. Yale 
became a center of anti-Vietnam sentiment, 
and support for government organizations, 
especially mysterious ones like the CIA, 
plummeted. Other universities across the 
nation experienced the same phenomenon. 
In fact, according to Winks, Nixon wrote a 
memo instructing the CIA to stop recruiting 
at Ivy League schools and Stanford and stick 
to "patriotic" schools like Brigham Young and 
Notre Dame. 

According to political science professor 
H. Bradford Westerfidd, today's Yale faculty 
has a much different relationship with the 
CIA than when he first began teaching here 
in the 1950s. Then, it was common practice 
for professors to do consulting work for the 
Agency, and also to recommend students. 
"There 
were 
very 
few 
inhibitions 
faculty towards 
recommending 
students until 
the 1960s," he 
says. Now, he 
knows of no 
professors who 
actively recruit; 
a student would 
have to initiate 
process. 
And what about 
faculty members being consultants for the 
CIA? "It declined," Westerfield says, "but 
never ceased." 

P
olitics does not fully account for Yale's 
diminished role in the CIA. In the 
1980s, there was talk of a New 
Conservatism at Yale, but the university never 
regained its special affiliation with the 
Agency. As human intelligence became less 
important than technology, the Intelligence 
Community began to focus on schools with 
stronger engineering and computer science 
programs. Yale is better known for its history 
and English departments-no longer high 
priorities at the CIA. When the CIA visited 
campuses last fall, Yale did not make the list; 
Princeton did. 

Competition from non-Ivy schools also 
keeps recruiters away from New Haven. "We 
look at campuses that are wdcoming and we 
look for diversity," Vanderhoof says. When 
the CIA was content with being the white 
male institution that it is, Yale served as the 
perfect breeding ground for intelligence 
officers. But th~word of the day is diversity, 
and the CIA muSt listen to it. 

As the nation's intelligence coffers have 
been significantly depleted, the recruiting 
budget has been among the hardest hit. At 
one time the CIA could afford to visit as 
many schools as its recruiters could manage. 
"I currently do not even have a recruiter in 
the northeast," Vanderhoof explains. She has 
plans for hiring one by next fall, and maybe 
then Yale will re-enter the recruiting circuit. 

In the spring, the Recruiting Office will 
evaluate the past year's efforts. But even if 
they decide Yale is a school they want to 
target, money may still keep them away. After 
all, the Agency was in such financial straits 
that at the onset of the Gulf War no agent 
was stationed in Baghdad; they certainly 
cannot afford to recruit at every school. 

Budget problems affect recruiting indirectly 
as well. As politicians struggle to balance the 
federal budget, the CIA struggles to keep up 
with the private sector. The NSA now has to 
compete with the likes of IBM for the chance 
to offer appli~ts cutting-edge facilities. The 
Intelligence Community no longer holds the 
definitive lead in technology. 

Bookstaber's experience indicates another 
reason why the recruiters are having trouble. 
During the interview process, he was 
interrogated twice with a polygraph. In 
addition to suggesting an involvement with 
foreign nationals during his religious mission, 
his examiners accused him of drug abuse. 
"People who know me laugh at the thought 
of someone being so convinced that I have 
ever used drugs," he says with a laugh. 

But on the same day, according to 
Bookstaber, one applicant cried as the 
examiner pressed her for incriminating 
answers. "They were yelling at her, trying to 
get her to confess to something. So finally she 
confessed to copying software when she was 
15," he says, " and they laughed at her." 

Microsoft not only pays better, but they 
probably don't care if you stole a street sign in 
high school. It's no surprise that most 
students do not feel it's worth it just to be 
able to say, "I could tell you what I do, but 
then I'd have to kill you." 

Ia) 
Michael Gerber, a sophomore in Ezra Stiles 
College, is a ~earch dire®r of 1NJ. 
all ages.


**Debs, An Interesting Choice**
**Author: Daniel Kellum**
**Page number(s): 34-35**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Daniel Kellum 
V~ball&ar8~ref~ 
1:£Y fit a cultur8 tliat ~'t 
atear kid~· 
Y
ou can buy debutantes for 95¢ a piece at the willfully 
cluttered Group W Bench on Chapel Street. Rubber nuns in 
penguin suits and their vulcanized white rabbit companions, 
meant to invoke the anonymous drug-laden memoir Go Ask 
Alice and the Jefferson Airplane supersingle "White Rabbit," stand on 
the shelves. Among these, interspersed throughout, stand figures of 
archaic femininity: unironic brides, bathing suit beauties, cowled 
runway models, and pink-gowned prom queens. Thumb-sized, mass--
produced dust collectors, the figurines have nothing to do with 
34 
cotillions or debutantes, not to mention parental coercion. 
In one corner, someone has dumped a slew of these, head first, 
into a big milk carton auspiciously labeled the "Bin of Debs." As it is 
with most things sold at Group W Bench, an untested anti-
establishment air settles over each transaction. 
I grab a handful of the old ladies the store calls debs and carry 
them to the register. I lay them topsy-curvy on a jewelry display case 
and take out three dollars. Apparently at Group W Bench tax is 
included or never paid because the black-clad cashier hands me back 
three nickels back with a postage stamp-sized receipt. 
"Debs," she says, slamming the drawer of the cash register shut to 
the beat of a Bob Marley song. "An interesting choice." 
as Gilman put it, "get around the meaninglessness of the whole thing." 
Sara Perkowski (TO '99) chose not to come out in the more 
serious New York debutante circuit. She admitted that, after boarding 
school, the notion just seemed like an ostentatious display of the 
N
ot that many people belong ro the rarified world of debutante 
Upper East Side materialism she had long since ceased to admire. 
balls anymore. A more than passing interest in courtliness 
Although she had attended dancing school and some of the sixth grade 
seems counterintuitive to generations versed in Betty Friedan 
dances requisite for obtaining an invitation to come out, the prospect 
and Gloria Steinem. So just as stores like Group W Bench depend on 
of being a debutance didn't really mean much to her. Perkowski 
consumer appreciation of their sarcastic camp, debutante societies 
occasionally laments her decision, reflecting that one of the deb parties 
depend on a reverence for the past. In many cities the societies persist 
she artended as a guest was a lot of fun. "Coming out doesn't mean 
even as their tried and true purpose-to introduce women to society-
anything, but who gives a shit," she said, draining a can of Diet Coke. 
has long fallen away. Young ladies with old money, new money, or 
In the kitchen of her apartment on High Street she smokes a Camel 
enough money to pay the two to three thousand do!Jars it takes to 
Light and shakes out her showered blonde hair. "It was a good time," 
come out, dig up white dresses held aloft with petticoats. The dresses 
she said. "What have you got to lose?" 
evoke the gowns of the Gilded Age, the historical moment when the 
Everyone I talked to said pretty much the same thing. "I'm not 
industrial-financed spectacle of debutante balls first appeared in the 
your typical debutante," Serena Cherry (ES '99) apologized. "I try to 
United States. 
keep it under wraps," she said of her coming out in Chicago, "but it 
Modem debs wear kid gloves and have their names called out over 
doesn't really work." Most of her friends weren't debs and such an 
loud speakers. Esconed by a father or an uncle, the ladies walk, smile 
elitest distinction sets her apart among her economically diverse group 
and cunsy. They dance with the dates they brought from college or 
of friends at Yale. "It doesn't reflect who I am. People get the wrong 
high school, and no one really thinks about 
impression." Gilman says something similar. ''I'm 
marriage or how this process once separated the 
n many Cl tes 
not what you think of when you think of a 
good girls from the bad. 
young ladies with old 
debutante, but neither are my friends and they all 
For some it's a terrific honor. "I knew some 
money, new money, or 
came out too." These debutantes mock the 
girls who thought it was the best day of their lives," 
seriousness of the ceremonies they participated in, 
enough money to pay the 
Liza Grote (SM '00) said of family friends she 
not sure how to rationalize the ritual of wealth and 
several thousand dollars it 
knew. For others the many deb balls they attend 
privilege of which they are a part. 
takes to come out, ig up 
during the Christmas break of freshman year are 
At least that seems to be the case among 
white dresses held aloft 
just good parties. "I mean, it was fun," Ellen 
debutantes at Yale. "I think it's different for girls 
with petticoats. 
Gilman (BR '00) said, although she questions how 
who spend more time in St. Louis," Grote said. 
meaningful the process of coming out was. In fact, 
"They feel much closer to it." For women 
everyone I talked to admitted that their parents 
geographically cut off from the societies to which 
were more enthusiastic about the process than they ever were. Gilman 
they have been introduced, the designation of "debutante" carries little 
talked about how excited her mother was at the prospect of her 
weight, especia!Jy in a community so bent on rewarding merit, not 
coming out at the Las Madrinas Ball in Los Angeles. She admits, 
pedigree. Sally Peacock (TO '99) talks about how the debutante ball 
however, that the ball itself didn't make any pretense of societal benefit. 
was not so much an introduction to society as a farewell to St. Louis-
"They [the organizers] sat us down. 'We're just going to throw you a 
she hasn't been back since. Grote admits seeing herself in the paper was 
big party,' they said. 'This is going to be so much fun, girls.'" The 
pretty embarrassing: "You're getting recognition for something you 
speech was meant to assuage the fears of girls who might find the 
didn't work for. • 
notion of coming out dreadfully old-fashioned. In fact, for Gilman the 
Sitting at her job at the front desk of the Sllika Center, Peacock 
community service aspects of the balls-in one for the LA. Children's 
recounts the cabalistic elements of the ball she and Grote attended, the 
Hospital prospective debutantes were asked to perform weekly 
Veiled Prophet Ball in St. Louis. Organized by some of the most 
service-were their biggest selling points. Many of their deb balls do 
powerful men in the city, the ball is a serious occasion, ridden with 
function as charity fundraisers, giving most of the proceeds to local 
comic and secret details. The most prominent man in the organization 
hospitals or women's organizations. Although very few of them force 
dresses up in an elaborate costume and presides ovu the presentation 
their participants to become actively involved in the organizations they 
of the debutantes. They bow to him and be reveals the debutante be 
are funding, many of them promote this kind of charitable element to, 


**Title: Debutantes of Christ**
**Author: Daniella Blum**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
exclaimed that the father-daughter dance was 
the "first time I held my baby in my arms." 
Needless to say, such reunions are far less 
common at tr.rdicional debutante balls. 
Turner congratulates herself when she 
speaks about the grandeur of the final ball. 
"It's a pretty hotsy-totsy affair," she says, 
describing the dresses and the decorations. 
She boasts that this year it will take place at 
the Omni Hotel, so that, according to 
Turner, the participants who don't have a car 
will be able to take the bus. As with all 
elements of the program, the committee 
stipulates that the event must take place in an 
area accessible by foot or public 
tranSportation. 

The grandeur of the ball is not the end of 
the line for the Debutantes of Christ. 
Emboldened by career counseling, etiquette 
lessons, and a recognition of their self-worth, 
they crusade toward job security and 
suburban comfort. "It's not just because of 
our program," Turner continues, "but our 
girls go on to become doctors, lawyers, 
Indian chiefs, you name it." She rattles off 
names and accompanying occupations as 
proof of the success of the program: lawyers 
who live in. Westport, elementary school 
teachers who live in West Haven-
emphasizing, of course, the importance of 
friendships made along the way. 

Operating as an educational, community 
uplift organization, the Debutantes for Christ 
Committee seeks to eliminate the 
socioeconomic barriers its young participants 
face. The final ball, to be held on February 
26, is a universe away from what debutante 
balls symbolized in the past. It is not a 
showcase of wealth and bloodlines, but rather 
a presentation of merit and ambition, even if 
its terminology remains rooted in the 
nineteenth century. 

Through the receiver, I can hear T umer's 
dinner sizzle in front of her. In the basement 
office of the church, a volunteer uses 
Windows 98 to update a pledge drive 
database. It is strange to imagine someone in 
this environment wanting to harken back to a 
day when debutantes meant something. It is 
stranger to think that someone would see in 
that word a vehicle to promote not just self-
esteem, but self-actualization. 

**Title: Raw Talent**
**Author: Jada Yuan**
**Page number(s): 38**

In japan, auahi che~a ~ace. 
a Long, arduoua apprenticeahip, 


**Page number(s): 39**

In Sapporo, japan, and Nnu Haven, Connecticut, all must begin with the 
rice. For aspiring sushi chefi in both towns, rice represents more than a 
staple, more than a simple grain. It is the basis of all sushi-from Temaki 
hand rolls and cylindrical Maki rolls to raw fish Nigiri slices. He who 
cannot prepare rice will never make sushi. 

Seikichi Moto, a 12-year sushi veteran and co-owner of Hama 
Japanese Restaurant in Hamden, Cf, makes his rice in a deep 
wooden basin about three feet in diameter. Balanced on a garbage 
can in the middle of the kitchen, the huge basin steams eerily under 
bright fluorescent lights. With a large wooden paddle in one hand and 
a bottle of mysterious golden liquid in the other, Moto leans through 
the steam and tosses the white grains into the air with sharp, furious 
flicks of his arm. In less than five minutes the basin is clean, the rice 
flavored ana ready for use. 

Moto's mysterious golden brew represents the last in a series of 
careful steps to achieve the perfect sushi rice. Any hopeful chef must 
first develop an eye for judging the quality of his crop. Sushi chefS in 
both Japan and America prefer Japanese rice because it remains sticky 
even when cool, and only rice that has dried for over a year will do. 
"New crop is no good for sushi," says Tadahiro Hayasaka (Haya for 
short), another immigrant from Sapporo and owner of Haya's Japanese 
Restaurant in New Haven. "Cook time is very difficult because already 
has so much moisture, but .... " He shakes his head. "No choice 
sometimes." 

In a craft that strives for perfection in both taste and display, 
improperly cooked rice poses a serious problem. Rice too wet will tear 
straight through a piece of seaweed or will pack so tightly it renders a 
piece of Nigiri sushi inedible. Rice too dry (including American rice, 
which loses moisture as it cools) will fall right out of a Malci or Temalci 
roll or will fail to pack properly into the bed necessary for Nigiri raw 
fish. Learning how to determine proper moisture for each batch of rice 
may take months, and even once a hopeful chef masters moisture, he 
must still master flavoring. As a requirement of the trade, Japanese 
sushi chefs hide their flavoring secrets under a cloud of intrigue, 
keeping their recipes even from their apprentices. "In Japan, men in 
general have put a large value on their professional success as a measure 
of who they are, so they hold on to what they know," says Bun Lai, a 
29 year ola Japanese-American who grew up working in his mother's 
Miya's Japanese Restaurant in New Haven. "They don't want a peon 
coming in and being better than them." Eventually, a young ~d 
ambitious sushi chef must use clandestine thievery and crypuc 
deciphering methods to divine the proper ingredients for sushi rice. 
The wait before making sushi can take up to five years. 

In the first five years, a young sushi chef hopeful may spend more 
time washing dishes than making rice. "You do a lot of little 
things," Lai says. "Basically, imagine being someone's personal 
slave." Mter a couple of years, when rice-making becomes more 
familiar and other "peons" have entered under the sushi chef, the 
apprentice can move on to cleaning and cutting fish, the second step 
on the road to sushi mastery. Duties under cleaning and cutting range 
from removing the skin of the fish and slicing it for use in Nigiri to 
making marinades for the chef and scrubbing fish guts off the bar at 
the end of the day. According to Lai, sushi chefS deliberately withhold 
fish cleaning, cutting, and flavoring secrets from their apprentices just 
as they withhold rice-cooking secrets. With their progress so 
calculatedly slow, it may take several additional years before the chefs-
in-training identify fish preparation skills, let alone master them. 

Japanese patrons, though, accept nothing less than mastery-one 
wrong slip of the knife can render a rare and expensive piece of fish 
unfit for use, and improper cleaning and curing of raw fish always 
hazards the danger of food poisoning. Only after mastering fish cutting 
can a hopeful chef begin to think of working solo. 

While learning the rudiments of preparing Nigiri sushi proves 
difficult for beginners, making the move from apprentice to chef is 
nearly impossible. With veterans hoarding their positions at the head 
of the bar, few rising chefs get a chance to enter the spotlight. "You 
may never be a starting man," Lai says, because "the starting man may 
be there his entire career." For the majority of Japanese sushi chefS still 
under the tutelage of another chef, the dream of one day escaping from 
the oppressive apprentice system provides the only spark of enthusiasm 
in a sea of tedium. "Japan, people work in restaurant not only for 
money," Haya says. "People like to work and learn the skill. If they 
learn something, maybe one day [they can] open up own restaurant." 

But according to Haya, even the most skillful chefs cannot open 
restaurants if they lack the capital. Over the past two decades, Japan's 
sushi market has become flooded with men of poor or little training 
who own restaurants only because their parents have the money to buy 
them one. "In Japan, sushi every place, just like McDonald's," Moto 
sighs. Not only has market saturation increased competition and 
lowered profits, it has removed the honor that once attracted sushi chef 
hopefuls to the business. Young chefS looking for distinction then 
have two choices: suffer through the ten or more years of training 
39 


**Wenaake**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Wenaake 
yoardag 
a IU:tle 
6JI.,eeter: 
• Candy by the pound 
• Coffee & pastries 
• New York egg creams 
• Fine chocolates 
& boxed candy 
1042 Chapel St. 
New Haven. CT 
Next to WAVE 
Mon.-Sat. 10-8: Sun.l2-5 
203-624-2411


**New Haven's Sushi Chefs**
**Author: Jada Yuan**
**Page number(s): 40-41**

a failing Italian restaurant cheap enough for 
them to buy in New Haven. Since Hama's 
opening 14 years ago, the restaurant has 
doubled in s~e and has quadrupled its 
number of sushi chefs (for seven years it 
operated with only Moto at the bar). The 
restaurant prides itself on "tasty and beautiful 
sushi made quickly," and most of its creative 
sushi options, such as the red, yellow, pink, 
and green Rainbow roll are Moto's own 
invention. 

New Haven, with its large university 
population of what Moto calls "sushi people," 
has opened up opportunities for many other 
chefs besides Haya and Hama. Mei Yao and 
Miao Yu, two part-owners of the Asian 
House Restaurant, have capitalized on the 
student population's willingness for 
experimentation and taste for ethnic foods. 
Their restaurant features Chinese, Thai, and 
Japanese selections, but all three of their chefs 
are Chinese. After immigrating to New York 
from Shanxi, China, Miao Yu trained for 
only two months before stepping behind the 
bar at Asian House. "We just know the 
simple way, not deep," Mei says, but the glut 
of experimental and ignorant restaurant-goers 
doesn't seem to notice. "American person 
comes in and knows just a few words of 
Japanese, but they talk to her," Mei laughs. 
"Chinese and Japanese person is just a face. 
They look the same." 

G
eorge Oakley, one ofMiya's star sushi 
chefs, looks nothing like any other 
chef in the New Haven area. The 
California-born surfer and wrestler is not 
only muscular and young, he's also black. 
Oakley, who spent most of his life working in 
his parents' two 7-11 stores, never guessed 
that he would end up working as a sushi chef 
in New Haven. Two years ago, when he 
decided to come to Southern Connecticut 
State University to complete his degree in 
sociology and communications, his only 
consideration had been the school's wrestling 
program. When his wrestling career ended a 
year and a half ago, Oakley started hanging 
out at Miya's in downtown New Haven. He 
knew Bun Lai, a former wrestler, through 
other wrestling buddies, and liked to go to 
the restaurant several times a week for 
Sapporo beer and sake. One day, a couple of 
months later, Lai offered Oakley a job. "He 
was like, 'Throw this on,' and he handed me 
an apron," Oakley says. "fm very inquisitive. 
FEBRUARY 12, 1999 
He saw that I kept asking about sushi and it 
just sort of blew up. So here I am, chopping 
away." 

The training regiment at Miya's took 
about five months of learning the basics 
known to sushi chefs everywhere: how to 
cook rice, how to cut fish and how to make 
rolls. Lai supervised Oakley and taught him 
all he knew. "It's a progression," Oakley says. 
"As you progress you get to be on your own 
more and more until they want to see how 
you react under pressure and they throw you 
to the wolves." After a year and a half of work 
at Miya's, Oakley now joins Lai in creating 
new options for the menu and making other 
decisions for the restaurant. Oakley grins 
rnischieviously, "I put the soul in the roll." 

New Haven and its population of "sushi 
people" has room for all creative sushi artists 
within its boundaries. "If interested in sushi, 
anyone can be sushi chef," says Moto, who 
employs one Japanese-American and two 
Mexicans at his bar. Sam Oh, a Korean 
immigrant whose Seoul Restaurant in 
downtown New Haven features both Korean 
and Japanese specialties, asserts that race has 
much less to do with making great sushi than 
determination and sensitivity. "It's like a 
heart," he motions towards his chest. "If 
mind goes too fast, rice grows too hard. You 
have to take care of the rice, the knife, the 
fish. You have to touch fish very softly." 

Patrons at any of New Haven's sushi 
restaurants have to get used to the lack of 
Japanese sushi chefs in the area. "I get 
second-guessed all the time," Oakley says. 
"It's up to me to show my talents, show what 
I can do." But Oakley isn't worried. He 
knows his rice, fish, and seaweed as well as 
any other chef in the area and has throngs of 
repeat customers who find his rolls the most 
soulful in the city. Oakley won't stay at Miya's 
forever, though. He'll finish school in a year 
and still has to thi.nk about graduate school. 
For him, sushi is less of a career than another 
notch in his cooking belt. "Now," Oakley 
says as he presses a bed of rice into a thin 
piece of seaweed, "I have something to add to 
my appetizer list." 
1111 


exceptional dresses by: 
.J~1 $t,.,. .T-1/N_[oY. 
J 
0 
H 
~cole ~(f~ 
N 
• 
zack 
and many other 
fine designers 
Seychelles 
1020 Chapel Street 
New Haven 498-2626 
across from old campus 
lOam to6pmM toW &Sat 
lOAM to 7PM Th 
Noon to 4PM Sun 
MC/Visa/Amex 


**Down & Out in America's Armpit**
**Author: Jessica Winter**
**Page number(s): 41-42**

Is there an American city (other than Detroit, perhaps) so synonymous 
with urban decay as Buffalo? There it sits in the left armpit formed by 
Canada's border with New Yt>rk. It gets the meanest moufalls east of the 
Rockies. It's home to the losing-est Super Bowl contmdm in history. And as 
anyone who's driven through it en route to happier places will attest, it 
looks bad. 

-john Boonstra, "Down & Out in America's Armpit" 
The New Haven Advocate, july 4, 1998 

I
s there an American city (other than Detroit, perhaps) so easy to 
rag on as Buffalo? Is there any town that inspires as much disdain, 
even revulsion? Vincent Gallo's film Buffalo '66-which provided 
the springboard for Boonstra's terse meditation on geography, 
misery, and football-made disgust its central theme: disgust for 
oneself, for one's surroundings, for one's parents and origins, and 
foremost for Scott Norwood. Norwood, as Western New Yorkers know 
all too well, was the Buffalo Bills player whose botched field-goal 
attempt at the close of the 1991 Super Bowl has become a crystallizing 
moment of defeat in the city's collective memory, an undying symbol 
of Buffalo's fundamental haplessness. Historically, the Queen City-
where I spent my first 18 years--has suffered a long decline: it slowly 
sank from a focal point of westward expansion in the nineteenth 
century as the hub of the Erie Canal, to a bustling but financially 
troubled metropolis in the 1960s, to the dilapidated, rather desolate 
town it is today. The closing of the steel mills and "white Bight" in the 
1970s delivered sound blows to Buffalo's self-image (and population 
density), but somehow Norwood's folly was a point of no return. The 
moment that ball careened just right of the goalpost was the moment 
that proved what Buffalonians had feared all along: that we were 
destined, in all things, to fail. 

The kicker, so to speak, was that this premonition was confirmed 
in front of the entire country; we were anointed as the official 
whipping boy of the U.SA., much like Newfoundland is for our 
neighbors to the north. We wear our dunce-cap crown with cheerful 
defensiveness, trying to turn our national shame into a position of 
strength. And-1 suppose because we're true to ourselves--we fail. Jay 
Leno establishes a nightly monologue motif by which he compares the 
height of Buffilo's snowdrifts with that of diminutive Bills quarterback 
and Flutie Flakes purveyor Doug Flutie (family lore has it that my 
cousin Mary Beth flirted with him in a bar once), and we'll reply with 
chirpy pluck that winter in Buffilo is the best seven months of the 
LocaL FLavor 
year. Make geography-as-destiny jokes like "America's Armpit" or "The 
Mistake on the Lake" (a tide which Erie, PA and Cleveland also 
proudly claim), and we'll remind you of our mercifully close proximity 
to Toronto, where we buy up Roots sweatshirts in bulk and where any 
disaffected teenager with access to a car spends as much time as possiblt. 

Say you're Don lmus. You go to Buffilo for a speaking engagement (in 
the hilly Southtowns, no less, which is as close to pastoral as the Buff 
comes). Your subsequent report to millions of listeners about the trip 
carries a whiff of the tragic, conflating pity, terror, and a certain 
reverent abhorrence in just five words: "God, what a dreadful place." 

We might be a little flummoxed, but we've got plenty of comebacks in 
our town-pride holster: Mark Twain lived here for a little while. Hey. 
at least we 71lfllk it to four consecutive Super Bowls. We've got, urn, the 
Goo Goo Dolls. We've got a Frank Lloyd Wright house. And 
goddamrnit, we've got wing.r. 

Maybe Buffalo should turn that preeminent claim to fame-
recently celebrated here in the Elm City, at the Seventh Annual Wwg 
Ding in the New Haven Coli5eum-into a hokey-inspirational motto, 
like how Clinton's people are always saying be's the Man from Hopc-
"We believe we can fly," or something. The problem, obviously, is that 
the same disingenuity is inherent in both catchphrases. The



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Jessica Wintn**
**Page number(s): 43**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
disappointment one feels upon the realization that Big Bill actually 
said "Mom and Pop's Floor Maintenance" and "Daddy-O's Auto 
grew up in a debauched, corruption-laden casino town would be no 
Parts." The women sported bad, crinkly perms and too-tight jeans and 
match for the expectations dashed by the disclosure that the wings in 
too much makeup. Everyone was overweight. Everyone talked through 
question for Buffalo are torn off slaughtered chickens (from Arkansas), 
their noses. Everyone was enjoying their Rolling Rock and buffalo 
plunged into boiling fat, cooked until they float, and served up to 
wings. Outside it was cold and dreary. The Coliseum looked like my 
hungry beer-swilling patrons, many of whom in their lumbering girth 
parents' bowling league. It looked, in short, like home. 

If New Haven can look and sound like Buffalo, then I would guess 
that a lot of America can. Maybe the perverse nationwide fixation 
upon Buffalo as an embodiment of pure abject humiliation is a 
reflection of what we all fear we have in common with the town, and a 
projection of it. A substantial number of us come from places, like 
Buffalo or New Haven, where there isn't much to do and the weather 
isn't so good and the people aren't so nice-looking. For a host of 
reasons, Buffalo has become the national microcosm--or 
scapegoat--of all these local frustrations and insecurities. 

And it's decided to be a gracious scapegoat. That's why 
Janice Okun can write without the crutch of irony 
about "intricate variations of chicken wing art," or 
why the Anchor Bar website boasts that past visitors to 
the pub have included "Spyro Gyra and Glenn Miller 
Band member Dick Gerhart." 

On my way back from the Wing Ding, I stopped 
into the other Anchor Bar, on College Street here in New 
Haven, to ask if they ever get confused with the buffalo-wing 
mecca. "Nah, that's never happened," barkeep Elaine replied, but my 
question did spark some secondhand memories of Buffalo. "I had a 
friend from Buffalo," Elaine told me. "His mother was basically 
illiterate and talked funny; it was really embarrassing. But he would go 
to the Anchor Bar there and the guys would just look at him like he 
was a god, because he'd gone to college and everything." This image of 
Buffalo's Anchor, in which the Cro-Mag patrons toss their bones· on 
the floor before approaching the ethereal M.A candidate in their midst 
with speechless apelike wonder, doesn't quite jive with my impression 
of the tavern as a stop for financial-district types and undergrads who 
like jaxz.. It does correspond, however, with a conveniently constructed 
narrative, one to which Leno and lmus and plenty of others have made 
notable contributions. Buffalo looks bad so that everybody else can 
look better. The Wing Ding was a reminder rrat a lot of us basically 
look the same. 

and hirsute aspect resemble the beast for which our proud city is 
named. 
Yet somehow I don't think most Buffalonians would recognize the 
irony as such, or mind it if they did. Take food critic Janice Okun, 
writing about buffalo-wing originator the Anchor Bar in the February 
3 edition of the Buffalo News: "The verb 'to Buffalo' something is now 
firmly ensconced in the culinary dictionary; it means to fry 
something (anything) and serve it with celery sticks and blue 
cheese sauce. So the responsibility of being chief chicken 
wing cook at the Anchor Bar is, well, awesome." In this 
passage, I'm struck by the refusal-informed by 
breathless civic pride-to admit that something 
unsavory tinges this exciting new entry into the 
gastronomic lexicon. I'm fascinated by the swift elision 
of any logical connection between a sentence about 
frying something (anything) and a sentence asserting the 
majestic perch of those fearsome deities who do the frying. 
These are the linguistic stamps of a dyed-in-the-wool-worn-seven-
months-of-the-year Buffalonian, for whom selective cultural myopia 
and a decidedly sanguine spirit of embellishment are one's best ways of 
rationalizing why, in God's name, you live in Buffalo. A native ability 
to fling animal parts into bubbling pots of lard is just one of your 
options. 

After I attended the Wmg Ding on February 4, however, I realized 
that maybe there isn't that much to rationalize; there are plenty of fine 
upstanding folks who don't have anything against animal parts, lard, or 
the Goo Goo Dolls for that matter. (The lineup of local bands 
providing the soundtrack for this gluttonous event included a plurality 
of sensitive emo-meets-Allmans types, all markedly Goo-Goolish.) 
Seven local bars and restaurants had set up shop around the perimeter 
of the Coliseum to hawk their varieties of buffalo wings, and as many 
tables serving soda, beer, and "wine" (I didn't ask) slaked our thirsts. 
The very first words I overheard once my friends and I pushed our way 
through the-1,000-strong crowd were those of a woman saying "Oh, 
wow, oh my God" --or, more precisely, "Oh, waaw, oh my gaaad." I 
knew that sound, that timbre--dusty and flat as the prairie where 
Buffalo roam. The men wore rattails and football jerseys and shirts that 


FEBRUARY 12, 1999 
jessica Wintn; a smwr in Trumbull Co/kg~. is a managing ~dimr of TNJ. 
43


**Title: DEFINITION OF A MADMAN**
**Author: John R. Swansburg II**
**Page number(s): 44-45**

Shut within an asylum, William Minor unlocked 
the English language. 
by John R. Swansburg II 
The Professor and the Madman, Simon Winchester (Hapercollins, 1998), pp. 242. 

erhaps only a man with so 
formidable a name as Richard 
Chenevix 
Trench, 
dean 
of 
Winchester, could have proposed the 
concept of the Oxford English Dictionary 
(OED). On November 5, 1857, Guy Fawkes 
Day, Trench set forth the explosive idea that 
it was not the role nor the prerogative of a 
lexicographer to determine which words 
should be included in a dictionary. A 
dictionary should be a record of all words 
that enjoy a recognized life span in the 
language. 

But what is so revolutionary about an 
English dictionary that includes all English 
words? The English dictionary is a 
surprisingly young entity. Four hundred years 
ago there was no such volume. Consider the 
implications: William Shakespeare had no 
English dictionary at his disposal. Neither did 
Spenser, Marlowe, Jonson, or Donne. The 
first English dictionary appeared in 1604, 
written by a schoolmaster named Robert 
Cawdry and contained a scant 2,500 entries 
over 120 pages. Cawdry produced the work 
"for the benefit & help of Ladies, 
gentlewomen or any other unskillful persons, 
Whereby they may more easilie and better 
vnderstand many hard English wordes." This 
work set the tone for the many dictionaries 
churned out during the remainder of the 
17th century: a dictionary was a reference 
work that defined difficult words-words like 
abequita~, bulbulcitate, and commotrix. More 
general dictionaries began to appear in the 
18th century, culminating in the famous 
achievement of one of the greatest minds in 
the history of English literature: Dr. Johnson's 
A Dictionary of the English Language. 

Johnson's dictionary was a response to a 
demand, made most notably by Jonathan 
Swift, that the English· language be 
delineated, fiXed. Swift complained of the 
appearance in print of such unfitting English 
words as "bamboozle" and such linguistic 
tramgressions as "couldn't." Thus while 
Johnson's work was far more comprehensive 
than any of its ancestors, it was also haughtily 
prescriptivist in tone. Johnson edited the 
English language, including in his volume 
only those words he deemed appropriate. 
This haughtiness is charmingly apparent in 
the timbre of his definitions. Take, for 
example, his definition of oats as "a grain 
which in England is generally given to horses, 
but in Scotland supports the people." Or his 
entry for lexicographer: "a writer of 
dictionaries; a harmless drudge, that busies 
himself in tracing the original, and detailing 
the signification of words." An entry in 
Johnson's dictionary was still a membership 
in an exclusive club. 

Thus Trench's idea was utterly new: to 
write a dictionary that not only included 
every word in the English language, but also 
traced the history of each word's use in order 
to identify changes in meaning and sense. 
This was a tremendous undertaking. To put 
the work into perspective, consider that it 
took Johnson and his staff six years to write A 
Dictionary of the English Language while it 
took a succession of editors and a far greater 
staff over 70 years to produce the OED. 

For every word in the English language, a 
history had to be found, an etymological map 
created. This meant scouring every dark 
corner of English literature, from Beowulf to 
Dickens, for occurrences and variations of 
words. The most famous and influential 
editor of the OED, James Murray, enlisted 
the help of the English public in order to 
complete this chart of the language. Through 
one of his repeated appeals to English readers 
for help, Murray unwittingly found the 
assistance of Dr. William Chester Minor, 
former New Haven resident and graduate of 
Yale Medical School. 

But it was not in his family's New Haven 
home or in their crockery shop at 261 Chapel 
Street that Minor sifted through every book 
he could get his hands on, meticulously 
noting down citations for the OED. Rather, it 
was in Broadmoor Asylum for the Criminally 
Insane, where he was incarcerated for life. 
Ironically, the Oxford English Dictionary 
could not have become a reality nor the end 
of lexical exclusivity achieved without the 
help of a man excluded from society, a man 
condemned for life to a lunatic asylum. 
Simon Winchester's The Profissor and tht 
Madman, recently nominated for a Critic's 
Circle Award, unravels the story of the man 
whose untiring work made possible the 
production of a project as audacious as the 
OED. 

Wmchester paints for his reader the life 
of a brilliant man trapped by unrelenting 
psychosis. After graduating from Yale, Minor 
began his medical career as a surgeon in the 
Union Army during the Civil War. Bur 
eventually Minor's psychological problems 
became too acute for him to perform his 
duties properly, and he was discharged from 
the Army. Believing a change of scenery 
might do him 9ood, Minor soon made his 
way to London. 

But his mental state did not improve with 
his change of nation. Indeed it worsened, and 
one night, in a characteristic fit of paranoia, 
Minor murdered a man in the streets of the 
Lambeth section of London. On his way to 
work, George Merrit was shot through the 
neck by Dr. Minor, who believed Merrit was 
trying to harm him. Merrie had unknowingly 
become a character in the world of Minor's 
delusions. A judge found Minor not guilty by 
reason of insanity, and Minor was 
subsequently committed. It was from his 
asylum that he penned what became nearly 
10,000 entries in the Oxford English 
Dictionary. 

Winchester has an intriguing story to tell, 
without a doubt, but his story is by no means 
impeccably told. Despite the remarkable 
nature of the making of the OED and 
William Chester Minor's integral role in it, 
Winchester at times betrays some insecurity 
about the quality of his story. He seems to 
want the story to be something it is not. In 
his preface, Winchester promises that "what 
follows is [a] strange, tragic, yet spiritually 
uplifting story." Strange and tragic yes, but 
Winchester forces "spiritually uplifting" 
where it does not belong. 

Winchester also does something very 
dangerous-he deceives his reader. He offers 
a romanticized version of the first meeting 
between Murray and Minor, in which the 
former is said not to have known of the 
latter's mental deficiencies until mistaking the 
asylum's warden for Minor: 

"And you sir, must be Dr. William 
Minor. At long last. I am most deeply hon-
oured to meet you." 

There was a pause. Then the other man 
replied: 

"I regret not, sir. I cannot lay claim to 
that distinction. I am the Superintendent of 
the Broadrnoor Criminal Lunatic Asylum. 
Dr. Minor is an American, and he is one of 
our longest"staying inmateS. He committed 
a murder. He is quite insane." 

This dialogue is pure fiction, the creation 
of an English magazine writer in 1915 when 
the story first broke and nothing was known 
about the first meeting of editor Murray and 
concriburor Minor. Winchester, however, 
knows that Murray knew of the New Haven 
doctor's condition long before ever visiting 
Broadmoor. Yet he offers the myth first, in no 
way indicating co his reader that the story is 
wholly spurious. The author goes on to admit 
that this story is not true, and to deliver the 
details of the actual first meeting, but the 
reader inevitably feels let down. This feeling 
of deflation would not be so acute if the 
fictional account of the first meeting of the 
Professor and the Madman were not the one 
that the reader is made to anticipate 
throughout the narrative. The reader is left 
feeling like Winchester wishes that his story 
did end with the rather Gothic scene above. 

For example, he writes, "The patina applied 
by decades of good use has made the legend 
pleasingly credible." What kind of alchemy is 
Winchester asking his reader to accept? 

Not only does Wmchester ask his reader 
to believe a myth, but he also dwells on 
certain unfortunate facts. Regretting the 
sexuality that had plagued his actions and 
thoughts throughout his life, Dr. Minor 
performs a final act of surgery: the removal of 
his own penis, the source of his unsavory 
desires. While perhaps this detail deserves 
mention, since it demonstrates the 
development of Minor's condition, it is 
questionable that it deserves an entire chapter 
in the book (a chapter wincingly entitled 
"The Unkindest Cut"). Wmchester provides 
himself with an opportunity for some simply 
unfortunate passages in an otherwise well-
written work. The most egregious: 

The surgical removal of the penis is ar the 
best of times a dangerous practice, rardy 
performed even by doctors: An attack by the 
renowned Brazilian fishier known as can-
diru, which likes ro swim up a man's urine 
stream and lodge in the urethra with a ring 
of retrorse spines preventing irs removal, is 
one of the very rare circumstances in which 
doctor [sic] will perform the operation, 
known as a peotomy. It is a brave, fool-
hardy, and desperate man who will perform 
an autopeotomy, in which one removes 
one's own organ-the more so when me 
operation is done in an unsterile environ-
ment and with a pen knife. 

A brave, foolhardy, and desperate man 
indeed. 

Another unnecessary element to 
Winchester's work is his often aimless and 
unscientific speculation about the causes of 
Minor's psychological ailments. Early in the 
book Winchester attempts to demonstrate to 
the reader how Minor may have acquired the 
perverse sexuality of his later years during his 
childhood in Ceylon. Winchester's prose at 
this point becomes almost salacious: 

And there are the girls-young, choco-
late-skinned, ever giggling naked girls with 
sleek wet bodies, rosebud nipples, long hair, 
coltish legs, and scarlet and purple petals 
folded behind their ears-who play in the 
white Indian Ocean surf and who run, quite 
without shame, along me cool wet sands on 
their way back home. 

There are other problems as well, 
problems of form rather than content. 
Although the work is written in a very 
readable style, Winchester seems to have 
added to his personal lexicon while 
researching The Professor and the Madman. 
Abstruse words dot his prose, often sending 
Winchester's readers from the pages of the 
book to the pages of a dictionary, presumably 
for most readers something more abridged 
than the OED. Some of Winchester's gems: 
fusillade (to shoot down by volley or 
successive shot), tocsin (an alarm bell or 
warning signal), and purlieu (a resort). 

A thorough reporter, always quoting from 
primary sources, medical records and 
newspapers, Winchester often relates 
intriguing details in the history of Dr. Minor. 
William Chester Minor's contribution to the 
making of the OED cannot be overestimated. 
Although there were others like him during 
the 70 years of production to contribute 
prodigiously to the dictionary, no one ever 
matched Minor's precision and ability to 
always be one step ahead of the Oxford 
editors. Oddly enough, the individual who 
made all this possible, having brought the 
doctor the greater part of his library from 
which he culled his citations, was none other 
than Eliza Merrie. The wife of the man 
Minor gunned down, the cause of his 
exclusion from society, forgave the sick 
murderer of her husband and gave Minor the 
opportunity to put an end to lexical 
exclusivity. 

1111 
john Swansburg. a junior in Saybrook Colkge, 
i.s on the stajfofTNJ. 
45 



**Title: ~iris, ~iris, ~iris A YALE MAN GOES IN SEARCH OF THE YALE WOMAN.**
**Author: Ron en G ivony**
**Page number(s): 46-47**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
~iris, ~iris, ~iris 
A YALE MAN GOES IN SEARCH OF THE YALE WOMAN. 
Ron en G ivony 
" G
entlemen: I wish to make a strong protest," an angry pen wrote 
years, good times, good fellows, and a free and open fight to be among 
the Yak Alumni Magazint in 1966 to answer student calls for 
the leaders and leave a name on the honor roll of fame." That same night, 
coeducation at Yale. "Let's face it-charming as women are-they get to 
the New, Blue's initiation begins with singing atop the Women's Table-
be a drag if you are forced to associate with them each and every day. 
the same monument that, two weeks before, served as a urinal for a 
Think of the poor student who has .a steady date-he wants to 
heartily masculine frat initiation rite-and ends later with the women 
concentrate on the principles of thermodynamics, but she keeps trying to 
side by side, swaying and clapping during a performance inside Sterling 
gossip about all the idiotic trivia all women try to impose on men ... " 
Library. 
Two years later, another tradition-happy alum wrote the YAM to 
Saturday night, Toad's: Saturday Night Dance Party is carrying on 
argue that, "Many men are able to devote greater emphasis to their 
nicely. The bass pulses down York Street, drawing eager males and 
academic endeavors in an atmosphere ... [without che] potencial 
females in, past the surly, frowning bouncers. Once inside, sweaty and 
distractions ... inherent in a coeducational setting ... " 
excited people bump into each other, spilling beer, chanting loudly, 
"Idiotic trivia." "Potential distractions." In this seemingly new era of 
Give it to me baby! (uhh-huh, uhh-huh), 
the Women's Center, the Women's Table, Aurora, Portia, t;he Women's 
Give it to me baby! (uhh-huh, uhh-huh). 
and Gender Studies department, the Viva La Vulva theater troupe, along 
with the University Provost and Graduate School Dean both being 
A trio of dancing females, recent scars on the Booty Cam, dressed in 
women, these snippets of old-school opposition to women invading the 
black spandex and revealing halter-tops, mouth the words in unison 
ranks of Mother Yale sound like hopelessly ancient remnants of a bygone 
between puffs of Newports. I walk up to them, dancing with each one in 
age. And yet we still hear the lingering remains, slightly modified and 
turn, posing the obvious question. 
updated, of such sentiments: Diane Kunz's tenure struggle, Yale's 
"So, uh, what do you think of coeducation at Yale?" I ask. 
position~ead last-among Ivy League universities in its percentage of 
"WHAT?" she yells, confused and unimpressed. -
tenured women, and the gender discrimination trial of Ann Diamond. 
"Are you aware that next year will be the 30th year of coeducation 
The statue of Nathan Hale and Woolsey Hall's proud dedication to 
here?'' I yell back. 
"The Men of Yale" who died in war offer reminders of where we've come 
"Is that your idea of a pick-up line?" she asks, rolling her eyes, 
from and also how complete (or incomplete) the degree of coeducation at 
shimmying away and still singing, loud and lascivious. 
Yale really is. As we approach the thirtieth year of coeducation on 
"So," I say, shifting strategy with her friend. "Do you feel like women 
campus, perhaps a brief tour through the events of Yale's busy night life is 
are integrated fully into Yale life here?" 
in order. 
She eyes me suspiciously. "My boyfriend's over there. Why don't you 
Tuesday night, the Women's Center. Even with rain pouring outside, 
ask him?" She points to a beer-guzzling ogre twice my size and waves 
eight women have gathered for a writers meeting of Aurora, "a feminist 
affectionately. 
· 
magazine" (never capitalized). Hellos are exchanged, seats taken, articles 
"I'm just trying to do an article," I sigh. "Do you have any thoughts 
handed out. The inside of the latest issue boldly declares, "Everything is a 
on coeducation here?" I ask the last of the trio. 
FEMINIST issue." Yale's refusal to establish a department of Gay and 
She shakes her head no, I'm sorry, and heads back into 
Lesbian Studies is discussed before the reading of "Pasty Blue Nausea," a 
pandemonium. Where is this much-feared "distraction" to be found? 
poem describing a woman's fears while awaiting a pregnancy test's results. 
Before leaving the Aurora meeting, I was asked to distribute a dozen 
"Say what you will about this poem, it's definitely Aurora material," 
or so flyers requesting submissions for the next issue. I go to the Trumbull 
one of the editors says. "We had a bunch of poetry submissions for this 
dining hall the morning afrer Toad's, slightly hung-over and grumbling 
issue from someone else, but I don't really think they deal with the 
about feminism. The lunch hour crowd is bristling. I move from table to 
subjects Aurora usually discusses." 
table, nodding hello to the Trumbull master as I place a blue flyer in the 
"Like what?" someone asks. 
center of her table, and survey the room to see if any tables are not done. 
"Oh, I don't know," she says. "You know, poems about, like .. .love. 
Paintings of college masters, their service to Mother Yale long since past, 
Sunny days. Stuff like that. Not really Aurora content. Oh, yeah, were 
form a solemn perimeter to the dining hall. The task is finished, 
you still doing that article about a visit to the DUH gynecologist?" 
somewhat. The sight of Yale's first and only female college master, 
Wednesday night, the Yale Bookstore. Flanking portraits of Bill 
surrounded and gazed upon by portraits of old white men on the walls 
Clinton, George Bush and other Yale greats is a display for St:orm- at Yak, 
in faded hues on dusty canvas, provides an obvious contrast-perhaps 
Owen Johnson's paean to Old Yale's Glory and the Yale Man (always 
a fitting image for this messy business of coeducation. You've come a 
capitalized). A brief look inside: "They had begun at last. Four glorious 
long way ... baby. 



Store Hours 
Monday thru Friday 
7am-7pm 
Saturday · .. 
9am-Spm 
Sunday 
10am-4pm 
Staples, 84 Whalley Ave., tlew Haven, CT • 77 3-3353 

prese..n 
A SPECIAL PROJECT OF THE YALE S CHOOL OF DRAM A FEATURING THE GRADUATING ACTING CLASS 
"It's wild, crude, raw, 
and, in large measure, 
menacing." 
New Haven Register 
" ... audiences who recall 
this classic will be pleasantly 
shocked by the production .... 
the concept dazzles the mind." 
Yale Daily News 
THROUGH 
FEB. 20TH 
ONLY! 
BY WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE 
HALF-PRICE STUDENT RusH 
STUDENT PASSBOOKS AVAILABLE 
CALL 432.1234 

