Publication date: Sept 2017
Volume: 50
Issue number: 1

**MASTHEAD:**
- editors-in-chief: Eliza Fawcett, Natalie Yang
- managing editor: Victorio Cabrera
- executive editor: Ruby Bilger
- senior editors: Elena Saavedra Buckley, Jacob Sweet, Oriana Tang, Victor Wang
- associate editors: Antonia Ayres-Brown, Chris Hays, Mark Rosenberg, Annie Rosenthal, Robert Scaramuccia, Arya Sundaram
- copy editors: Philippe Chlenski, Meghana Mysore, Marina Tinone, Amy Xu
- executive layout editor: Julia Hedges
- design editors: Stephanie Barker, Catherine Peng
- photo editor: Elinor Hills
- web developer: Philippe Chlenski


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- PRESCRIBING PRODUCE — Fiona Drenttel
- ART AND WORK IN AUVILLAR — Amra Saric
- NOIR HAVEN — Noah Macey
- I’M ALWAYS TRYING TO EXPLAIN THIS  — Ruby Bilger
- THE HUB OF THE WHEEL — William Reid
- THE RIGHT TO BARGAIN — Amy Xu
- THE EPIDEMIC AT HOME — Daisy Massey
- UNWRAPPING MAJOR GIFTS — Yi-Ling Liu
- SUN — Sidney Saint-Hillaire
- JOURNEY TO FOXON PARK — Bix Archer


**Title: THE EPIDEMIC AT HOME**
**Author: Daisy Massey**
**Page number(s): 30**
How  recovering opioid addicts and their families are 
navigating treatment options in connecticut


**Title: UNWRAPPING MAJOR GIFTS**
**Author: Yi-Ling Liu**
**Page number(s): 20**
Chinese philanthropists are reshaping university 
campuses. How are these donations procured?


**Title: PRESCRIBING PRODUCE**
**Author: Fiona Drenttel**
**Page number(s): 4**


**Title: ART AND WORK IN AUVILLAR**
**Author: Amra Saric**


**Title: NOIR HAVEN**
**Author: Noah Macey**


**Title: I’M ALWAYS TRYING TO EXPLAIN THIS**
**Author: Ruby Bilger**
**Page number(s): 10**
Talking about techno in Berlin


**Title: THE HUB OF THE WHEEL**
**Author: William Reid**
**Page number(s): 12**
John Martin’s East Rock co-op teaches amateur bike mechanics the tricks of the  
trade


**Title: THE RIGHT TO BARGAIN**
**Author: Amy Xu**
**Page number(s): 15**
Where Local 33 ﬁts into the contentious history of labor organizing Yale


**Title: SUN**
**Author: Sidney Saint-Hillaire**
**Page number(s): 28**


**Title: JOURNEY TO FOXON PARK**
**Author: Bix Archer**
**Page number(s): 38**



**Title: PRESCRIBING PRODUCE**
**Author: Fiona Drenttel**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Behind the parking lot of Career High School, underneath 
a tree toward the back of a small plot of cultivated land, ﬁf-
teen people are seated in a circle, their eyes shut. A car drives 
by; occasionally, voices drift over from the street. A woman, 
alternating between English and Spanish, leads the group in 
a guided meditation, drawing its attention to different aspects 
of the surroundings. Past the circle of chairs, there are rows 
of lettuces, cucumbers, carrots, trellised tomatoes, and piles 
of fresh soil. This is the Hill North Farm, which New Haven 
Farms opened this past May.


New Haven Farms is a nonproﬁt started in 2012 to improve 
community health through urban agriculture. Hill North 
Farm is the organization’s eighth urban farm, but their ﬁrst in 
the Hill, one of New Haven’s lower-income neighborhoods. 
Currently, they’re running a free, twelve-week bilingual 
wellness program focused on preventing diabetes and other 
diet-related chronic diseases. The program follows a national 
curriculum created by the Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention, but with a farm-based focus.


Following meditation, the ﬁfteen people present will 
spend a half hour working on the farm, harvesting the food 
that they’ll later take home. The bulk of the program, how-
ever, consists of a class led by Celin Garcia, a bilingual nutri-
tionist.


Garcia begins by checking on each participant’s prog-
ress. Many seem hesitant to share. “I’m doing good,” a man 
dressed in all blue murmurs, nodding.


A woman smiles shyly. In Spanish, she reveals that in the 
eight weeks since the program started, she’s been exercising 
daily and feeling healthy. Just a few days before, she went off 
her diabetes medication entirely. The group applauds.


“Well, I spent Saturday and Sunday in the hospital,” offers 
an elderly woman, gripping a cane. “But I feel better today. 
And I’ve come up with a great recipe for chicken and brown 
rice soup.” 


Participants are referred to the Hill North program by 
their healthcare providers. 


In order to qualify, they must have one risk factor—such 
as obesity, high cholesterol, pre-diabetes, or elevated blood 
sugar—and their income must fall below twice the poverty 
line. Beyond that, there is also a certain amount of self-se-
lection: it’s up to the patients to ﬁnd time in their schedules 
and come each week.


“It would be a lot easier to just go buy a sandwich,” a man 
said to me after the program. “But I’m here, and as long as 
I’m here, I’m gonna try 
to put healthy food in my 
body.”


Comprised 
primarily 
of 
African-American 
and 
Latino families, the Hill is 
cut off from the rest of New 
Haven by the Oak Street Connector, a one-mile segment of 
Route 34 built in the nineteen-sixties era of urban renewal. 
This barrier has had countless damaging effects on the neigh-
borhood over the years including, crucially, a lack of access 
to healthy food.


Large grocery stores are non-existent in the Hill. There are 
lots of corner stores and bodegas, which sell almost exclu-
sively processed foods: chips, candy, soda. For many, fresh 
and healthy food is far away; in 2015, the Community Alli-
ance for Research and Engagement completed a survey on 
health in New Haven, and reported that 35 percent of resi-
dents in low-income neighborhoods and 50 percent of His-
panic and Latino residents had experienced food insecurity 
in the past year.


New Haven Farms seeks to increase access to food for and 
improve the health of the Hill’s poorer residents. Liz Marsh, 
Program Director at the Hill North Farm, emphasizes that 
education cannot stand alone. “Yes, you can tell people that 
they need to eat healthy,” she says. “But if you don’t give 
them food or provide ways for them to grow or obtain their 
own food, then they’re not going to be able to be healthier.”


The farm’s focus isn’t limited to providing resources. “Cul-
ture is the biggest inﬂuence on people’s eating habits, and 
you learn eating habits from a really young age,” says Marsh. 
“And so, if you’re going to talk about food and changing your 
habits, you have to talk about culture.”


Participants often describe the struggle of integrating 
healthy food habits into their own food customs. “My whole 
life, I’ve gone to the grocery store and bought a twenty-pound 
bag of rice to make rice and beans,” one woman says, and oth-
ers nod. “But I’m trying to ﬁnd other ways to feed my kids.”


Across the street from the Hill North Farm is the Hill North 
Community Garden, which is run by the New Haven Land 
Trust in partnership with the Connecticut Mental Health 
Clinic. The garden stands at the corner of Sylvan Avenue 
and Asylum Street; 
spaced 
throughout 
it are raised beds 
ﬁlled with ripening 
produce, hoses con-
necting one to the 
next. It is a picture of 
what the Hill North Farm could be, in time. Geanine Peck, 
the clinic’s Associate Director of Acute Services, started the 
garden four years ago with the purpose of creating a public 
greenspace for the clinic’s patients in addition to the greater 
community.


The garden is always open, and visitors can take as much 
food as they like. Community members speciﬁcally requested 
many of the crops now growing in the garden, including cab-
bages, pumpkins, gandules (a type of legume, often served 
with rice in Puerto Rican cuisine), and collard and mustard 
greens.


Since the garden’s creation, Peck has started several differ-
ent programs for CMHC’s patients, and has run workshops 
for the larger community about growing and preparing food. 
“When 
we 
ﬁrst started, peo-
ple would come 
here 
pull 
entire plants out 
of the beds, or 
they’d take food long before it was ripe,” Peck says, leading 
me through the garden. “Food insecurity around here is so 
extreme. People were afraid there wouldn’t be anything left 
for them if they waited for the food to ripen.” 


In future years, graduates of the Hill North program will 
have the option to grow food in their own garden plots, using 
the skills that they learned during the program. New Haven 
Farms will provide each with a 4’ by 8’ plant bed, along with 
compost, seeds, seedlings, and a water source. They’ll have 
free reign to grow whatever they like.


As we leave the community garden, a man leaves his plot 
to introduce himself to me. “I live across the street, and I 
watch over this place,” he says. “Yeah—I guess you could say 
it’s sort of ours now.”
—Fiona Drenttel is a sophomore 
in Benjamin Franklin College.


**Title: ART AND WORK IN AUVILLAR**
**Author: Amra Saric**
**Page number(s): 6**

A group of thirteen students has gathered at an air-
port in Toulouse, France. We are en route to a small 
village called Auvillar for a month-long intensive stu-
dio art summer program led by the painter and Yale 
School of Art Professor Robert Reed ART ‘62. At 75, 
Reed is smaller and frailer than I had imagined, but 
he’s beaming. Most of us are meeting him for the ﬁrst 
time, yet he already knows our names. He speaks in a 
tender tone, as if catching up with a good friend he 
hasn’t seen in years, and listens attentively. It is early 
June of 2014, and the southern French countryside that 
ﬂies by the bus from Toulouse to Auvillar fulﬁlls every 
painterly cliché of itself—beautiful light, fragrant air, 
old stone houses dotting the river banks.


But there is little time to enjoy the scenery. Under 
the guidance of Reed and his four teaching fellows, we 
spend nearly all of the next four weeks drawing and 
painting our “investigations”—Reed’s term for the sub-
jects we have chosen to concentrate on for the course of 
the program. We begin with life drawings from objects 
we ﬁnd ourselves. A pile of bricks, a miniature forest of 
moss, twigs, and pebbles, and a whole artichoke all ﬁnd 
their way into the studio. The commitment is total; the 
work is personal and at times discomforting. Laptops, 
cell phones, headphones, and visitors are absolutely 
banned. On the third night, after two days of misguided 
attempts and Reed’s disapproval, I panick, realizing it 
wouldn’t be a leisurely summer session of plein air 
painting. To stop myself from running away, I drag my 
empty suitcase to the studio and start drawing it.


The works we create range from palm-sized to wall-
sized, from six pieces to over a hundred per student for 
each day’s review session, which Reed calls an “obser-
vation.” “Quantity is the direct result of the intensity 
of your search,” he often reminds us. The studio is in 
a constant ﬂurry of pieces of paper and cardboard that 
we ﬁll with charcoal and graphite in a matter of min-
utes. The physical motions we use to produce drawings 
become muscle memory.


Titled “Studio Practice in Painting and Drawing,” 
Reed’s course in Auvillar was the ﬁnal installment in a 
series of programs he created throughout his life. The 
program exempliﬁed his pedagogy: an isolated setting, 
unique vocabulary, and a dedicated group of students 
ready to form a tight-knit community. In 1960, as a stu-
dent at the Yale School of Art, Reed participated in the 
Yale Summer School of Music and Art in Norfolk, then 
taught by the famed artist Philip Guston. According to 
Reed’s wife, Susan Whetstone, the Norfolk experience 
was among his most formative. “Robert produced a lot 
of work as a painter, but he hoped his legacy would 
be primarily as a teacher. The programs [he designed] 
came out of his experience at Norfolk, which was very 
interdisciplinary, with musicians, painters, and other 
artists all working together. It was a total experience 
of being enmeshed in your work, your art, twenty-four 



**Title: seven.**
**Author: Amra Saric**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
“It sounds like some kind of a cult,” said David Whelan ART ‘12, Reed’s teaching fellow in Auvillar in 2013 and 2014, remembering the program. “But the intensity encourages vulnerability so that participants ﬁnd each other in that vulnerable moment, and depend upon each other throughout the experience.” 

Late at night, tens of drawings into a demanding investigation, we push each other through fatigue, frustration, and moments of doubt. But as Reed keeps reminding us, the program is a rare opportunity to sustain singular focus so intensely. He often uses the analogy of a rubber band: the program’s mission is to help us stretch further than we ever thought we could be stretched. By the end of the program, each one of us made over four hundred pieces of work.

“I will go down in history as the person who took the most seminars with Robert,” Mary Scarvalone told me, laughing. Scarvalone, a Cap d’Antibes-based artist, participated at least once in every one of Reed’s programs after she met him in 1975. The personal and artistic growth spurts that happened in the programs kept her coming back. “Bob gave you the knowledge that you don’t have to be easy on yourself and do the bare minimum. You go through the process of continually working an idea, and working and working it, doing the ﬁfty drawings. As you do them, you discover new things you hadn’t seen before,” she said. The last time Scarvalone worked with Reed was in 2012, in Auvillar. Recently, she and a sculptor friend locked themselves in her studio in Cap d’Antibes, a town on France’s Mediterranean coast, for a three-day weekend of nothing but drawing with the intensity she learned from Reed.

The summer of 2014 was the last year of Reed’s program in Auvillar. That fall, I took his “Introduction to Painting” class at Yale. It was the last time he taught that, too; he was hospitalized intermittently throughout the semester, but he came back immediately each time he was released. In December of that year, Reed passed away at the age of 76.

I had many professors after Reed, but I never, not even after graduating in May this year, stopped looking back at the experience of working with him. After knowing the energy that comes from intense focus and dedication to one’s work, anything less feels inadequate, dishonest. For the Yale Summer Session staff, ﬁnding someone conﬁdent enough to carry the torch and keep the Auvillar program running has proved impossible. Reed’s program was ﬁercely his own, a product of his own lifelong investigation. The following summer, the studio in Auvillar was empty of students. But across the country and the world, the rubber bands continued to stretch.
—Amra Saric graduated from Trumbull College in 2017.



**Title: NOIR HAVEN POINT OF DEPARTURE**
**Author: Noah Macey**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

For me, the word “noir” brings to mind quick-talking mid-century mobsters in black-and-white suits lingering in the back alleys of menacing, unnamed cities. But the stories from the anthology New Haven Noir (Akashic Books, 2017) ﬁll the familiar streets of New Haven with shadows and populate its apartments and hotel rooms with sinister people. From the monstrous, anonymous guest in Michael Cunningham’s “The Man in Room Eleven” to the addled and violent widow in Karen E. Olson’s “The Boy,” New Haven Noir’s characters move among prominent New Haven landmarks—Sterling Library, Beinecke Plaza, Long Wharf, Wooster Square—that are so speciﬁc and immediate they jar readers who know the city, ﬂavoring it with a bitter taste.

The book’s ability to defamiliarize was made apparent to me one afternoon this summer. “Callback” by Sarah Pemberton Strong, the second story in the anthology, takes place near the Audubon Arts District, between Lincoln and Orange Streets, in a neighborhood where “Most of the big houses […] have been converted into law ofﬁces or therapy practices.” The murder, however, occurs in “a gorgeous, three-story brownstone.” As I reached this line in the story, I looked out from the porch of my summer sublease on Orange Street, behind Lincoln, in the Audubon Arts District. I lifted my gaze and saw two big houses that had been converted into a therapy practice and a law ofﬁce, respectively. I raced down the stairs onto the sidewalk across the street and swiveled to look up at the building that contained my apartment, which was (you guessed it) a beautiful three-story brownstone.  The murder from the story happens in my very own basement. Going downstairs to do laundry would never be the same.

The brownstone in “Callback” was an especially bold noir invasion of New Haven, but most of the story locations in the anthology are less speciﬁc—though that just means their eeriness is cast more widely. Alice Mattison’s “Innovative Methods,” about a visit to Lighthouse Point by residents of a troubled youth home, is sure to lurk in the back of my brain the next time my friends and I see a group of kids playing at that beach. The authors included in New Haven Noir, an eclectic bunch of Yale University professors, New Haven residents, and concerned non-New Haveners, picked their locations on a ﬁrst-come, ﬁrst-serve basis. “The early bird gets the neighborhood,” quipped Amy Bloom, a former creative writing professor at Yale and current director of the Shapiro Creative Writing Center at Wesleyan University, who edited the anthology. The system worked: the sixteen stories leave no nook of New Haven untouched. Human remains are found in Union Station; denied tenure leads to murder in East Rock; an innocent plumber is framed in the Audubon Arts District. “If noir is about corruption, absurdity, anxiety, the nightmare of bureaucracy,” writes Bloom in her introduction to the anthology, “New Haven, with multiple universities and multiple clinics and multiple, and sometimes clashing, neighborhoods, is a noir town.” 

The premise of the book deserves discussion itself. New Haven Noir is one in a series of anthologies of literary noir published by Akashic Books since 2004. Ninety-two currently exist, covering cities from Tel Aviv to Dubai, with multiple dedicated to each borough of New York City, and twenty still forthcoming.

The primary appeal of each of book is its focus on the hyper-local. In New Haven Noir, things as ephemeral as food truck placement and the wait times for lattes in East Rock aren’t just ornamental details, but crucial parts of the setting. (Bloom says she had to assure her barista at East Rock Coffee that he wasn’t the basis for her story’s “glacially-slow” espresso-slinger.) We often ask ﬁction—and increasingly, social media—to whisk us off to places we’ve never been; for local readers, New Haven Noir does not offer this sort of escape.

Yet, having read Bloom’s anthology, I ﬁnd that localism and noir are well-suited to each other. It’s one thing to read about a psychopath who imprisons people in a generic town library and another to envision someone being tied to the shelves in the stacks of Sterling (perhaps even with zip ties stolen from the CEID). While a non-New Havener could certainly enjoy the collection, its true audience is residents of the Elm City. Reading about these places we know so intimately—or even just ones we pass through every once in a while—gives us the sense of being in on a sort of secret.
—Noah Macey is a junior in Timothy Dwight College.



**Title: I’M ALWAYS TRYING TO EXPLAIN THIS**
**Author: Ruby Bilger**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
“I’m always trying to explain this. I always have trouble. 
I think it’s such a lonely thing to do. People in Berlin go to 
techno clubs alone and take pills alone and then go home—
even if you go to techno clubs with friends you don’t really 
talk to them or even dance with them. You walk through 
these bombed-out industrial parts of the city, and see these 
scattered people holding beer bottles all headed in the same 
direction, and then you wait in line, and don’t hear so much 
German, and when you get in there, all it is is what you 
expected: boom boom boom boom.”

Bernardo paused and passed me the shisha pipe. I like the 
pipe. It lets one person hold the ﬂoor while the other one’s 
smoking. I took it and watched him, hunched over, eyes dart-
ing around the printed curtains and sleepy, chuckling men 
in the dusky room. He and I were at a smoking lounge on 
a humid Monday night in July. I felt a bit sheepish talking 
about this, especially in English, in a Syrian cafe, in Ber-
lin, a city that so many foreign young people ﬂock to for a 
few weeks or months or years because of its legendary techno 
scene. But for that same reason I felt it was a silly thing to 
ignore. 

 “I dunno, I think I get it though,” he continued. “I went 
last weekend again, after I’d been feeling off for days. I’d just 
ﬁnished my German test and had been sitting around for-
ever in the kitchen in a bathrobe, and when I got into the 
club I was still feeling so uneasy. What was I doing there? 
I’m from Mexico but I haven’t lived there in ﬁve years. What 
was I doing in Germany thinking about my life in English—
not even in Spanish—in this dark basement with all these 
other people? But I stayed anyway and after a while…man 
it’s hard to explain, it’s such a non-linguistic experience…but 
after a while I just started to feel alright there. Once I looked 
around, and saw all of these pulsing silhouettes, and thought 
of myself among all these other rootless people with similar 
thoughts running through their minds, it was just okay to be 
there—that’s all. Just this sense that I’m here, and I’m okay. 
Reverberating over and over.” 

I passed Bernardo the pipe when he ﬁnished. We had both 
been in Berlin for months off the vague intuition that we’d 
like it here—me intending to go back to America in August, 
him to stay indeﬁnitely. We tutored and babysat enough to 
get by. We hung out with Mexicans with European pass-
ports and Germans from other states and Syrian refugees 
and English people tired of England. We had so much time 
to talk. We’d had three thousand conversations in this way 
before, over beers or water pipes, about why people do things. 
I’d been aware of techno as a sexy and sinister part of the 
city’s folklore: huge cold rooms, everyone dancing alone and 
facing front, staying inside from early Friday morning until 
they stumbled out on Sunday afternoon. But Bernardo and 
I hadn’t talked about it since my ﬁrst week in Berlin, in the 
dead of February, when we had gone to a tiny dance club to 
see a DJ in a tan body suit play the keytar and toss around a 
slightly smaller dummy of himself and I’d turned to Bernardo 
and said, “This is the worst.”
“But why did we show up for it?” he’d replied. “Why was 


illustration Steph Barker


this the thing we decided to do tonight? I think it speaks to all 
the rootless people here…” 

We’d yelled in each other’s ears for a bit longer and after 
a while I’d checked my phone. Somehow I’d composed an 
email to my dad, no text in the body, just a subject headed 
“Swazi”. I tried to cancel it but sent it instead. The DJ threw 
his dummy into the crowd for body surﬁng. I turned to a 
woman who I’d met earlier that night and asked her what she 
thought of this. 
“I like it,” she’d said, dancing. “It’s strange.” She’d paused 
as the DJ snatched his dummy back, then added, “after the 
whole day working…”

After the whole day working! I’d really started to enjoy 
myself after that, just for the thought of everyone who wanted 
to see something strange after the whole day working. And 
after the DJ had ﬁnished and we’d all rushed out to the frigid 
cobblestone street I checked my phone again, 4 a.m. in Ber-
lin, 10 p.m. in New York, and my dad had already replied to 
my email:


? 

What does this mean? 

But for months after that weekend I’d forgotten about 
techno. I liked small concerts and classrooms and public 
transit; well-lit places with other personalities to latch onto. 
It was only by this point in mid summer that I could start 
to see what Bernardo was now explaining—I’d gone to one 
of the thumping basement clubs a few nights before, not on 
pills though I’m sure it helps, and after a few confused hours 
standing in strobe lights, plumes of water vapor, the smell of 
mold and the incessant vibrating bass drum that tries to pull 
your muscles from their sheaths, I started to feel like I’d never 
make it out of there. And soon I started to build a strange 
sort of focus, almost like sleeping. The day’s events started to 
course through my mind: a long delayed train, a distracted 
twelve-year-old who didn’t care about intro paragraphs, my 
own distraction from wondering why I had to teach them, a 
chilling look my roommate gave me as she opened the fridge, 
wide streets, rain, YouTube videos; I started to run through 
whole conversations from that day just for the pleasure of 
memory, and because the smoke was getting in my eyes and 
no one was touching; and every few measures I’d remember 
again how bizarre this was—that someone would need to be 
in this hellish underground crypt just to have some peace and 
think about her day. But the music would move on and soon 
I would too, until a sentence would wriggle into my mind 
and repeat, I never learn I never learn I never learn, and keep 
repeating until it was pounded out of me, and at the same 
time pounded in.

Soon the lights had changed and I started to think about 
all the times in Berlin I’d been in crowds like this. Bernardo 
and I had spent the ﬁrst of May together, the holiday to 
commemorate workers’ rights, when the city blocks off the 
streets in the center of town and releases the youth there to 
day-drink and walk toward a park. There’s no event in the 
park, just more day-drinking. I’d felt a vague uneasiness the 
whole time. And to climb out of that techno club ﬁnally into 
Wednesday morning sunshine and take the train home with 
construction workers and kids off to school—it felt wily and 
wonderful to invert the day like that, but it really made me 
wonder if Berlin doesn’t just exist for so many people as a big 
ﬂat place to wander around dazed. 

Bernardo and I leaned back on the velvet couches and 
looked at the ceiling. A laugh erupted from the group of men 
sitting behind us. I saw Bernardo clock them, and look at me, 
and we both listened to them josh one of the guys in Arabic 
for a while. 
“The funny thing is I heard two guys talking about the 
exact same thing yesterday,” Ber-nardo said ﬁnally, passing 
me the pipe. He’d been letting it burn idly. “In English, 
in two vaguely foreign accents. They were saying how pro-
foundly they experienced themselves in the techno club and 
everything. It annoyed the hell outta me.” 

He smiled a little. I could imagine those two guys exactly—
long hair, tattoos, all in black, smoking rolled cigarettes. Two 
European assholes in Berlin to party, probably not there to 
see something strange after the whole day working. For a 
moment I imagined all the pairs of people like that across 
the city having our same conversation, and I turned on every-
thing Bernardo and I had been thinking. I wanted it out of 
me, that inward experience I had to share, that sad transcen-
dent feeling of communion with all those rootless people that 
only happens in booming nightclubs, and disappears when 
we overhear each other in daylight. It was embarrassing.

The group behind us started laughing again. “Seems like a 
fun group of guys,” Bernardo said. “Better than the guys I saw 
yesterday, sucks to suck…” 

I looked at Bernardo sitting there, mulling over the next 
thing he wanted to say. And I wanted to change the subject, 
but more strongly I wanted to hear what was on the tip of his 
tongue…so all I did was laugh and tell him to quit hassling 
those guys. Those assholes have seen beautiful things. 
—  Ruby Bilger is a junior 
in Branford College.


SOON I STARTED TO BUILD A 
STRANGE SORT OF FOCUS, 
ALMOST LIKE SLEEPING.



**Title: THE HUB OF THE WHEEL**
**Author: William Reid**
**Page number(s): 12**

Behind a warehouse door in East Rock, John Martin 
tightens a bolt and gives the crankshaft a turn, sending the 
rear wheel of the bicycle into a spin above the concrete 
ﬂoor. He leans in and eyes the rotation approvingly. It 
spins true—no horizontal shake, no friction. Behind him, 
Connor Dwyer Reynolds, the bike’s owner, breaks into a 
smile.

Before ﬁnding the Bradley Street Bicycle Cooperative, 
Dwyer Reynolds knew almost nothing about bike repair. 
But he needed a bike and wanted to build it himself, so 
Martin offered to teach him. Since they were about the 
same height, Martin repurposed a frame that once be-
longed to the second bike he ever built, back in college. 
It needed a complete overhaul—new brakes, wheels, and 
gears. Now, it works.

Surrounding them in the co-op, a diverse group of 
mechanics attends to bikes held aloft by aluminum bike 
stands. It’s a rare sight in a city segregated by race, class, 
and cultural capital. Graduate students work next to teen-
agers from Fair Haven. Older, upper-class men learn from 
young, working-class women. They clean chains, lube 
gears, replace brake pads, change tires, and adjust shifters. 
Outside on the sidewalk, someone test-rides a cleaned-up 
junker from the seventies. The brakes squeal. Some of the 


THE HUB OF THE WHEEL


some of the


mechanics have a background in professional bike repair, 
but most start like Dwyer Reynolds—they come in know-
ing nothing. Given time, space, tools, and a little instruc-
tion from Martin or the other experienced mechanics, 
they learn to salvage defunct bicycles.

The co-op takes in old bikes culled from dusty attics 
and garages or picked up by the New Haven Police De-
partment. Often, they’re dead on arrival—hardly func-
tional, if you can ride them at all. The bikes lean togeth-
er in long rows in a cavernous room at the back of the 
shop. One by one, these hunks of metal are resurrected 
by the co-op’s volunteer bike mavens. About half of the 
refurbished bikes will go to the beneﬁciaries of local char-
ities, such as Integrated Refugee and Immigrant Services 
(IRIS) and the Connecticut Mental Health Center. Last 
year, the co-op donated about a hundred recycled bikes. 
This year, it’s on track to double that.

With thick-rimmed glasses, light scruff, and a cyclist’s 
slight build, John Martin doesn’t exactly stand out among 
the other patrons on the shop ﬂoor. But he’s the man in 
charge here. He’s about six feet tall, thirty years old, and 
in two years, he’s made the co-op one of the strongest in-
stitutions in the New Haven biking community. In addi-
tion to the bike refurbishment program, the co-op hosts 
‘Chainbreakers,’ a bi-monthly night for female mechan-
ics, and group events like Bike Month, dedicated to cel-
ebrating bike culture and empowering cyclists across the 
city. The shop is also open to members who pay a small 
fee—$30 for three months—to work on their own bikes. 
Local bike activist Paul Hammer describes it as the com-
munity’s “cultural center.” And John Martin? “He’s the 
hub of the wheel.”
—

On some afternoons during the summer, Martin’s co-
op looked like a block party. Music ﬁltered out from the 
open warehouse door onto the sidewalk where mechanics 
worked and hung out. First-time customers whizzed up 
and down Bradley Street under Martin’s watchful eye, try-
ing out refurbished bikes.

All of this came about mostly by accident. In 2011, after 
a summer on his father’s farm in Westbrook, Connecti-
cut, Martin took a job at an architecture ﬁrm in Boston, 
where he’d gone to college. After a few years, he got a call 
from home. His father needed help—not on the farm, 
but at the warehouse that had been in Martin’s family for 
three generations. His grandfather purchased it in 1964, 


photos William Reid



**Title: THE CO-OP IS A RARE SIGHT IN A CITY SEGREGATED BY RACE, CLASS, AND CULTURAL CAPITAL**
**Author:  William Reid**
**Page number(s): 13-14**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
13
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
and both grandfather and father used the 
space as the headquarters for their New 
Haven–based electrical business. Since 
his father’s retirement, the warehouse had 
ﬁlled with decades of detritus.
By 2014, the warehouse was costing more than his fa-
ther could pay, so Martin moved back to New Haven to 
do something with the space—either clean it up enough 
to rent it out or start a small business of his own. It felt like 
the right time: He’d reached a plateau at work and recent-
ly gone through a tough breakup. He needed a change. 
And besides, he’d never turned down his father before.
 “I spent the ﬁrst six months just, like, cleaning,” Mar-
tin tells me as we stand in the warehouse. “Trips to the 
scrapyard, dumpster loads, a ton of recycling, selling stuff 
on eBay, reorganizing, consolidating. And we’re not done, 
you can see. There’s still a lot of stuff in there.” Only a few 
shelves have been reclaimed for the co-op’s tools; many 
still hold brightly colored bins ﬁlled with wires, switches, 
fuses, and everything else needed to keep the lights on. 
While cleaning up the warehouse, Martin started ﬁxing 
friends’ bikes on the side, a skill he’d picked up in Boston. 
At one point, he thought: Why not let other people use the 
space to do the same? A proper bike shop felt outside his 
ken, but maybe something less proﬁt-oriented and more 
community-focused would suit him. “It wasn’t a business 
idea,” he explains. “It was just a cool side project. But very 
quickly, it was, ‘Let’s take this and run with it.’” 
One day before the shop ﬁrst started up, Martin heard 
a knock at the door. He opened it to ﬁnd Joel LaChance, 
a New Haven resident who’d been riding and ﬁxing bikes 
in the city for forty years. LaChance had heard about the 
co-op through his insurance agent, whom Martin had 
contacted about purchasing coverage. A professional me-chanic and former bike-shop owner himself, LaChance 
sought Martin out with the hope of giving him some guid-
ance. New Haven has had various bike repair co-ops in 
the past, LaChance tells me. Most were funded through 
Dwight Hall at Yale. But the initiatives suffered from 
high turnover rates—student volunteers would graduate 
and move on without ﬁnding replacements. The Bradley 
Street Co-Op promised to be a more permanent ﬁxture of 
the biking community. “There’s a need for affordable bike 
repair in New Haven,” LaChance says.
So he found Martin, and a friendship quickly blos-
somed. LaChance introduced Martin to Paul Hammer. 
Together, the three founded BEEEP!, or Bicycle En-
trepreneurship, Education and Enrichment Programs, 
which launched the bicycle refurbishment initiative. 
The co-op has since absorbed BEEEP!, taking over the 
recycling program and its broader nonproﬁt mission: get-
ting more people onto bikes in New Haven.


“Transportation is a civil rights issue,” Mayor Toni 
Harp announced at a public meeting in January 2014. 
“It’s an economic development issue. It’s a jobs issue.” 
The data agrees. A report produced by DataHaven that 
same year notes that “transportation is by far the most 
commonly reported barrier to getting a job.” Part of the 
problem is what the report calls “job-sprawl”: low-wage 
jobs gradually leaving downtown, which is fairly well-ser-
viced by public transportation, and moving to wealthier 
suburbs like Hamden, which are public transportation 
dead zones. Over the last three decades, the proportion 
of residents in New Haven’s poorer neighborhoods—Fair 
Haven, Newhallville, and the Hill—who work outside of 
the city has nearly doubled, from 29 percent to 55 percent. 
What’s more, due to the racial makeup of these neighbor-
hoods, the “spatial mismatch” between housing and jobs 
is particularly pronounced among workers of color. 
That’s where bikes come in. The 2014 report found that 
in New Haven, more low-wage positions are accessible via 


---

14
bicycle than by public transportation. And compared to 
cars, bikes are much cheaper to purchase and maintain, 
especially if owners can do it themselves at a place like 
the co-op. According to the American Automobile Associ-
ation, owning even a modest car costs, on average, seven 
thousand dollars a year. At the co-op, by contrast, you can 
purchase a used bike for a few hundred bucks.  
Martin isn’t just selling bikes, though. He wants to 
teach people skills that they continue to use. “I think any-
one who put the time in could become a pseudo bike-me-
chanic in a year. Which is pretty friggin’ awesome,” Mar-
tin tells me. He cites story after story of volunteers who, 
after working in the co-op, became so adept they could 
have gotten a job in a professional shop. Martin doesn’t 
claim any responsibility for their transformation. Rather, 
it’s about having the opportunity and resources to work on 
a range of different bikes. 
That egalitarian vision breeds the co-op’s inclusivity. 
On one summer afternoon, the oldest mechanic was an 
immigrant from Mexico in his sixties. He can’t always pay 
the shop fee in cash, so instead, he brings new rags and 
WD-40 to replenish its supplies. The youngest mechanic 
was thirteen. I ﬁrst met him after he ﬂipped over the han-
dlebars of his street bike onto the sidewalk in front of the 
co-op while trying to clear a jump made of two-by-fours. 
Since then, he’s taken to less death-defying pursuits: He 
volunteers almost every day, and when he can’t make it 
in, he calls Martin to let him know. (This habit comes 
from his mother, who says it’s good practice for when he 
has a job.) On another day at the co-op, I see him help a 
thirty-year-old man overhaul an old commuter bike.
It’s not all rosy, Martin tells me. Whenever a space tries 
to welcome everyone, tensions can arise. How does the 
atmosphere change when a ten-year old joins the co-op? 
How should Martin respond when a poor teenager starts 
stealing tools? What should he do when an older man 
from the neighborhood says something racially insensi-
tive? Martin says these questions are always on his mind. 
He has no clear answers, but that doesn’t bother him. 
Searching for solutions—even trying to get close—is the 
only way to start making things better. 
Besides, sometimes tension is useful. On a bike, ten-
sion is what allows you to shift from one gear to another, 
what makes the brakes work. One day in the shop, Mar-
tin tells me he thinks it’s inevitable that some people will 
feel uncomfortable in a place like this. Maybe that’s okay. 
Without tension, they could never ride.
—William Reid is a junior 
in Pierson College.
John Martin, 30, the founder of
 the Bradley Street Bicycle Co-op


**Title: THE RIGHT TO BARGAIN**
**Author: Amy Xu**
**Page number(s): 15**

15
THE RIGHT TO BARGAIN
Where Local 33 ﬁts into the contentious history of labor organizing Yale
Amy Xu
As a light rain fell on New Haven, hundreds of teach-
ers, students, and labor organizers walked in silence down 
College Street. The April 25 march, which had the gravity of 
a funeral procession, began outside the Methodist Church 
across from Battell Chapel and ended at a white tent erected 
in front of Yale University President Peter Salovey’s house on 
Hillhouse Avenue. Rising to address the crowd on a makeshift 
stage, Maria Elena Durazo, the Democratic National Com-
mittee Vice Chair, drew parallels between graduate student 
teachers’ recent efforts to unionize and social justice move-
ments of the past. “It is always this way,” she said. “When you 
seek what you deserve, when you act to make your rights real, 
you’re ignored at ﬁrst.”
For months, Local 33, the Yale graduate student teach-
er’s union, had been calling upon the Yale administration 
to begin negotiating their ﬁrst contract, a legal agreement 
between the union and the University about working con-
ditions and employee beneﬁts. In February, when graduate 
student teachers voted to unionize on a department-by-de-
partment basis, the mood among Local 33 organizers had 
been jubilant. But Yale had repeatedly refused to ofﬁcially 
recognize the union, and by April, organizers decided it was 
time to raise the stakes.
Toward the end of her remarks, Durazo turned to the eight 
graduate student teachers gathered around her in a semicir-
cle. “Yale wants you to wait…and so you will wait, without 
eating. You will show Yale that you have power.” She pivoted 
back to the crowd and announced what they had all been 
waiting for: “Tonight, eight courageous members of Local 
33 begin a fast.”
Those eight members would subsist on water alone in 
“The Fast Against Slow,” an attempt to draw nationwide 
attention to their cause. If a faster’s health faltered, an allied 
graduate teacher would take her place—an indeﬁnite system 
of rotation. The fasters had deeply personal reasons for join-
ing the demonstration.  Julia Powers, a Comparative Liter-
ature graduate student teacher, told the crowd that she was 
“tired of widespread and unchecked sexual harassment at 
Yale.” Generations of “brilliant, talented women” — includ-
ing some of her acquaintances, Powers said — had their 
careers derailed because “men with long and well-known 
track records of harassment” oversaw their work. Tif Shen, 
a Mathematics graduate student teacher, said that when he 
reported an incident of assault and harassment in the work-
place, the administration ignored him. Emily Sessions, from 
the History of Art department, said that when she spoke up



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
about working conditions in her department, she was called a 
liar, threatened, and told to “shut up.”

“Fixing this takes will, not time, and I’m tired of being 
powerless while Yale blossoms,” Sessions told the crowd. 
“Yale has to respect us and listen to us, not wait longer. But 
Yale has told us to wait, so I am waiting, without eating.”


The sudden visibility of Local 33’s efforts this past spring 
took many undergraduates by surprise. Most weren’t entirely 
sure of what to make of “33 Wall Street,” a 25-foot bowshed 
that members of Local 33 erected on Beinecke Plaza the 
morning after the Hillhouse Avenue march. The plastic-and-
wood shelter stood for four weeks, staffed by round-the-clock 
shifts of supporters who gathered at picnic tables and under 
strings of lights. The encampment was impossible to miss and 
prompted passersby to confront the University’s relationship 
to labor—something many had never done before.

But despite the seeming novelty of the demonstration, 
Local 33’s actions ﬁt into a narrative of union organizing that 
is integral to the last half-century of Yale’s history. By the 
mid-nineteen-eighties, Yale’s clerical and technical workers 
had formed Local 34, and its dining hall, custodial, and main-
tenance workers, who began organizing in the nineteen-thir-
ties, had formed Local 35. Both unions currently exist under 
the international labor union UNITE HERE, which rep-
resents thousands of workers across North America, from 
hotel employees to railroad dining car workers. Motivated by 
rising job insecurity and the increasing cost of living in New 
Haven, graduate student teachers also started organizing in 
the late ninteen-eighties, ﬁrst through a group called T.A. 
Solidarity, which later became the Graduate Employees and 
Students Organization (GESO) and, as of last year, Local 33. 
As each iteration of the group emerged, the Yale adminis-
tration fought back, repeatedly thwarting their attempts to 
unionize.

For the past three decades, the conﬂict between graduate 
student teachers and the University has centered on one cen-
tral distinction: Are they employees, deserving of beneﬁts sim-
ilar to University professors? Or are they students, bestowed 
with University resources like undergrads, and tasked with 
extra responsibilities that reﬂect their academic training?

The graduate student teachers who began early organiz-
ing efforts in the late nineteen-eighties were ﬁghting for not 
just for certain workplace conditions and beneﬁts, but for a 
speciﬁc ideological framework: we are students and employ-
ees. It was an issue that had never come up for Yale’s dining 
hall or clerical workers, who were undoubtedly University 
employees.

Doctoral students at Yale receive a full tuition waiver 
for ﬁve years of study, as well as teaching stipends, which 
vary from student to student. But for many graduate student 
teachers, that stipend, which is $30,250 a year at minimum 
— more than seven thousand dollars less than New Haven’s 
median household income — is not an adequate living wage.

For decades, the Yale administration has cleaved to one 
position: graduate student teachers are students, ﬁrst and fore-
most. In the late nineteen-eighties and early nineteen-ninties, 
Yale administrators were frequently quoted in the national 
media arguing that pro-union graduate student teachers had 
misunderstood their role at the University. “Forming a union 
represents an incorrect understanding of what teaching 
assignments for graduate students really are,” Donald Kagan, 
then-dean of Yale College, told The New York Times in 1991. 
“They were never intended to be jobs, but rather to be teach-
ing apprenticeships.”

Michael Denning, a professor of American Studies who 
has been involved with unionization efforts since he was a 
graduate student teacher at Yale, has never thought much of 
this line of argument. “If these were really students,” he said, 
“why would [the University] give them grants? It’s because 
they’re not students. The whole issue of the tuition waiver, 
to me, has always been an indication that they aren’t really 
students…That’s just a pure ideological illusion.”

After years of demonstrations and debates that resulted in 
minimal progress, the graduate student teachers’ labor move-
ment gained sudden momentum in August 2016, when the 
National Labor Relations Board ruled in favor of Columbia 
University’s graduate student teachers. The decision deemed 
them not only students but also employees entitled to collec-
tive bargaining rights under federal law. It provided the legal 
precedent for the battle that Yale’s graduate student teachers 
had been ﬁghting for the past 25 years.

But for Yale administrators, the ruling was not the ﬁnal 
word. Shortly after the February elections, lawyers working 


Over the past three decades, Yale and its unions have 
maintained a fragile, often acrimonious, relationship. In a 
March 2003 article in The New York Times, Steven Green-
house, a labor journalist, called it “unusually rancorous.” 
Until 2003, strikes and walkouts occurred almost every three 
years, as each contract developed through bitter negotiations.

Janet Lindner, Yale’s vice president for human resources 
and administration, wrote in an email this summer that since 
2003, there has been “a generation of strong partnerships 
based on the hard work of union and management lead-
ership.” Union leaders and University administrators have 
collaborated on goals and worked toward a sense of mutual 
trust, she said, adding, “Many employees at Yale now have 
never experienced a strike, and that gives me great hope for 
the future.”

But this past spring, Local 33’s demonstrations seemed to 
belie any indication that the University and its unions were 
on good terms. At best, the protests recalled the bitter labor 
conﬂicts that have deﬁned the University’s past.

“What is Yale afraid of?” members of Local 33 asked at ral-
lies, just as in September 1984, Local 34 strikers demanded, 
“Why should the Yale administration hide from the truth?”

The striking clerical and technical workers were in the 
midst of their ﬁrst contract negotiations in the fall of 1984. 
They called for salary increases, expanded beneﬁts, and job 
security over the next three years. Dining halls closed as their 
workers, members of Local 35, joined the picket lines. Local 
34 accused the University of discrimination on the basis of 
both race and gender; the union primarily consisted of the 
female support staff that populated the University’s reception 
rooms and front desks.

The strike ended after ten weeks, although protests and 
demonstrations continued through the winter. When the 
University and the union ﬁnally struck a deal in January, 
Local 34’s victory was apparent. But it came with a price: a 
semester’s worth of lost wages and job uncertainty. 
During the strike, there was an abiding sense among union 
members that Yale didn’t treat its workers with respect, said 
John Wilkenson, who was the secretary of the University at 
the time. “You shouldn’t tighten your belt in a way that will 
discourage or demoralize your employees, because it comes 
back and bites you,” he reﬂected. “You lose in the long run.”

When labor disputes dominated campus, undergrads were 
forced to reckon with their own dilemmas, both moral and 
practical, in ways that are unfamiliar to the vast majority of 
students today.  Do I cross a picket line, or do I skip my class? 
Do I work my student job, or do I refuse in solidarity with the 
striking workers?

Despite the outpouring of public support in 1984, student 
opinion was split. A Yale Daily News poll taken soon after 
the strike began found that twenty-one percent of students 
supported the University, thirty-ﬁve percent of students sup-
ported Local 34, and thirty-nine percent disagreed with both 
sides. Of those who disagreed with both sides, one third chose 
the option, “I care but I’m confused.”


Still, with its 80 percent female membership, Local 34 
expanded people’s understanding of what a union mem-
ber could look like and what unionization could achieve. 
Soon, graduate student teachers began to deﬁne themselves 
as workers with rights. The conceptual gap between an aca-
demic worker and an clerical worker was far narrower than 
the gap between an academic worker and, say, a factory 
worker. Additionally, many graduate student teachers were 
married to members of Local 34, exposing them to regular 
union activity, Wilkenson said. 

Practical concerns accompanied conceptual ones. In the 
nineteen-eighties, the teaching demands placed on graduate 
student teachers were growing increasingly intense. Gradu-
ate student teachers were asked to spend more time teaching 
undergrads than ever before. Financial strains were mount-
ing: by the end of the decade, a graduate student teacher’s 
teaching salary was many thousand dollars less than the cost 
of living in New Haven.

In 1987, a group of graduate student teachers calling them-
selves “T.A. Solidarity” — the precursor to GESO and Local 
33 — held its ﬁrst ofﬁcial meeting to discuss formal recourse 
for improving their working conditions. The organizers grap-
pled with how to deﬁne their new group in relation to the 
unions that already existed on campus. As graduate student 
teacher Christopher Lowe jotted down on a legal pad during 
an early meeting, how could they maintain their autonomy as 
a graduate student teachers’ “advocacy group” while avoiding 
becoming a “union support group”? On the other hand, how 
could they learn from “the experience of the unions… about 
how Yale might behave?” As the graduate student teachers 
broached the question of tactics — to strike or not to strike? 
to withhold grades or to give everyone an “A”? — they bal-
anced their own interests against public opinion and their 
allies’ positions. Lowe believed that a close alliance with the 
unions would help further both causes, and it was the posi-
tion that the group’s organizers ultimately adopted.

WHEN LABOR DISPUTES 
DOMINATED CAMPUS, 
UNDERGRADS WERE FORCED 
TO RECKON WITH THEIR OWN 
DILEMMAS, BOTH MORAL AND 
PRACTICAL, IN WAYS THAT 
ARE UNFAMILIAR TO THE VAST 
MAJORITY OF STUDENTS TODAY.  

T.A. Solidarity’s evolution into GESO in 1990 marked 
the graduate student teachers’ ﬁrst distinctive move toward 
a union-style advocacy group. Like a union, GESO went on 
strikes, petitioned the NLRB, and organized across depart-
ments. And in March 2016, GESO rebranded itself as “Local 
33,” clearly signaling its allegiance to the union model.

But the legal argument against graduate student teachers 
as workers held strong, as it had for years. Since 1970, cases 
regarding graduate teacher unionization at private universi-
ties had ﬂooded the courts. In 1972, a ruling involving Adel-
phi University determined that graduate student teachers 
were “primarily” students, not employees. The pendulum 
swung back and forth over the next few decades, as decisions 
were reversed and reinstated, deﬁning and redeﬁning the 
nature of graduate student teacher work.


With the Columbia University decision in 2016, the NLRB 
set a new precedent, arguing that graduate student teachers 
are legal employees. Local 33 organizers wasted little time to 
catch the momentum of fresh empowerment and launched 
into a new strategy for negotiating with the University: they 
would organize department by department. 

This strategy would secure collective bargaining units 
through individual departments — English, Geology and 
Geophysics, History, History of Art, Math, and Sociology — 
rather than through an all-department vote. Each of those six 
departments that voted to unionize would draw up a separate 
contract with the University. It was a tactic that ultimately 
included only a small proportion of the overall graduate stu-
dent teacher body. But from Local 33’s perspective, they had 
achieved their union; they were NLRB-certiﬁed.

“The logic of it makes sense, because people are doing very 
speciﬁc kinds of labors in very particular units,” said Jennifer 
Klein, a professor of labor history at Yale who supports and 
works with Local 33. “[White collar unions] are organizing 
through a different form of unionism than industrial union-
ism.” This “micro-bargaining” strategy made sense for Local 
33 because of the highly-specialized nature of graduate-level 
work, she said, and because it was a more feasible organizing 
strategy for a place like Yale, where organizers expected con-
siderable pushback.

There was also some precedent for Local 33’s micro-bar-
gaining tactic. In a 1996 academic journal article on the his-
tory of unionization at Yale, John Wilhelm, then-president of 
UNITE HERE, wrote that in the 1930s and 1940s, the custo-
dial, maintenance, and dining hall workers organized “incre-
mentally,” group-by-group, before banding into one union, 
Local 35. Their unionization process took over a decade.

But the University declined Local 33’s invitation to begin 
collective bargaining in eight departments. “Yale respectfully 
notes that this request is premature because the legal ques-
tions raised by Local 33’s unprecedented ‘micro-unit’ strat-
egy remain unanswered,” an April 11 statement read. “Yale is 
still engaged with Local 33 before the NLRB.  The university 
respects the legal process for resolving labor issues while this 
case continues to move forward.”

Many students also questioned the validity of Local 33’s 
methods. Stephen Krastanov, a graduate student teacher in 
Physics involved with GASO, a group of graduate students 
teachers opposed to Local 33, said that for him, the union, 
not the University, was bargaining in bad faith. “They are 
waiting for a union before they start thinking about how they 
will be using that union,” he said. Krastanov also believes 
that Local 33 also has a tendency to misrepresent facts: “They 
are setting up the University to look bad without honestly 
trying to negotiate with them.”

As 33 Wall Street stood on Beineicke Plaza, conversations 
on Cross Campus and in the comment threads of the “Over-
heard at Yale” Facebook page revealed the ambivalence over 
Local 33’s tactics that pervaded the student body. Why was 
so much of the graduate student teacher body excluded from 
the vote, as the University claimed? Were the elections really 
democratic?

This spring wasn’t the ﬁrst time Local 33 had come under 
ﬁre from the University community for its organizing tactics. 
On January 15, 2016, a group of “women, LGBTQ graduate 
students, and graduate students of color” penned an open let-
ter to the leadership of GESO, which would become Local 
33 two months later. “Tactics targeting students outside of 
their classrooms, in their ofﬁces, their apartments and dorm 
rooms are invasive regardless of how we move through the 
university,” wrote the undersigners, many of them union 
members and organizers who “write with a shared recogni-
tion of the powerful work this union has done over the last 
two decades to support marginalized university employees 
and New Haven residents.”

Over the past year, Local 33 has tried to improve upon 
the tactics described in that letter. “We make mistakes, but 
we also do the very best we can,” said Julia Powers, one of 
the ﬁrst fasting graduate student teachers, in a phone call 
over the summer. Melis Laebens, another graduate student 
teacher, said that although Local 33 is not perfect, she’s been 
“mostly sympathetic” to their position in the past year. “I have 
had personal tensions with my organizers at some points, and 
got angered a couple of times, but I have currently found 
my organizers are willing to listen and accommodate.” Her 
support, however, is “not unconditional.”

The University’s own delay tactics are similarly contested. 
Union detractors, including a sizeable portion of graduate 
student teachers, say Yale is a working within the bounds of 
the law; union supporters, including thirteen members of the 



**Title: A Legacy Hard to Shake**
**Author: Amy Xu**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
19
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
Yale Law School who issued an open letter to the administra-
tion, believe that the University is actively defying labor law.
In the purview of the past twenty years of labor history, 
the current situation could best be described as “business as 
usual.” Some legacies, it seems, are harder to shake than oth-
ers.


On the morning of last year’s Commencement Day, 33 
Wall Street was unusually empty; the action was elsewhere. 
About ﬁve blocks away, in UNITE HERE’s downtown ofﬁces, 
local labor activists were preparing for a protest march that 
had brought hundreds of union supporters from across the 
East Coast to New Haven. Auto workers, fast food workers, 
union families, and graduate student teachers from other 
universities congregated on streets around the New Haven 
Green. “Union power in the ivory tower!” they chanted, 
sporting orange t-shirts and mortar boards. 

In the weeks leading up to commencement, graduating 
seniors and the University administration had voiced con-
cerns that the protesters would disrupt the ceremonies by 
seizing the stage or blocking the path of the formal proces-
sion. But the action was orderly and celebratory. 

The demonstration halted on the corner of Elm and Col-
lege Streets, where the marchers faced the graduating class 
of 2017. Behind a line of police motorcycles, the ﬁnal group 
of Local 33’s fasters sat in wheelchairs, in front of a crowd 
of cheering union supporters and a blue banner that pro-
claimed, “Just the beginning, Yale.” The protesters cheered 
on the graduating seniors; some students shouted back words 
of support. 

The Local 33 marchers seemed proud and deﬁant, but in 
many ways, it wasn’t their day to celebrate. When the formal 
procession was over, the protesters continued their march to 
City Hall. There, the eight remaining hunger strikers broke 
their fast, drinking cups of warm butternut soup. They hud-
dled underneath a white tent as a light drizzle fell on down-
town New Haven. They were in good spirits, but weary. In a 
few days, campus would empty out for the summer. The ﬁght 
was far from won.

Yale, for its part, had already begun its counter-attack. 
On Commencement Day, volunteers distributed water bot-
tles and palm-sized pamphlets along the procession’s path. 
The pamphlet, entitled “Information on Graduate Student 
Unionization,” was a preventative measure. It contained a 
two-part argument that the graduate student teachers had 
seen before: one, graduate student teachers at Yale were orga-
nizing undemocratically; two, graduate student teachers at 
Yale were among the most privileged in the country.

The material structures that had deﬁned Local 33 during 
its stint of campus prominence were also quietly removed. 
At dawn on May 25, a crew of non-union maintenance work-
ers dismantled 33 Wall Street. The following weekend, when 
alumni descended upon campus for college reunions, no 
sign of union activity was in sight.

The summer’s peace didn’t last long, however. On 
August 25, as ﬁrst-years arrived on campus, a curious struc-
ture appeared on the New Haven Green. The bowshed was 
smaller and entirely orange this time, but similarly hand-
some. As Yale’s newest class swarmed Old Campus, members 
of Local 33 stood in front of the cleverly-named “33 College 
Street,” exchanging smiles and handing out ﬂiers to ﬁrst-
years and their families.

In his 1996 article about the history of unionization at Yale, 
John Wilhelm, then-president of UNITE HERE, reﬂected 
on labor struggles new and old. “It’ll take a while, but I think 
all of us will get over the discouragement and taste a little 
bit of the joy and the freedom and the power of that kind of 
struggle,” he said. “Some of us have had the privilege to go 
through it before.” The legacy of past labor struggles may be 
hard to shake, but not for a lack of trying.
—Amy Xu is a junior 
in Ezra Stiles College.


**Title: Unwrapping Major Gifts**
**Author: Yi-Ling Liu**
**Page number(s): 21**

21
Under the high, Gothic Revival ceiling of the 
Sterling Memorial Library Lecture Hall, Chinese real 
estate mogul Zhang Xin speaks to a packed audience 
of students, professors, and university administrators on 
the afternoon of November 9, 2016. She is dressed in 
the stylish business attire that The New Yorker once 
called “a kind of Shanghai-Tang chic.” Before a large 
projector displaying photos of shiny ofﬁce buildings 
in Shanghai, she describes the newest projects of her 
multi-billion dollar prime ofﬁce real estate company, 
SOHO China. Her career trajectory—from teenage 
factory worker in Hong Kong to Master’s student at 
the University of Cambridge to renowned entrepre-
neur with 10 million followers on Weibo (the Chinese 
version of Twitter)—is emblematic of “the Chinese 
dream.” However, Zhang Xin is not here just to talk 
about her success. She is here because fourteen under-
graduates in the audience—the Yale SOHO China 
Scholars—are reaping the beneﬁts of her wealth: schol-
arships for low-income Chinese students.

Two years before this presentation, these scholarships 
were still just ideas. In January 2014, Yale President 
Peter Salovey ﬂew to Beijing for a fundraising meet-
ing arranged by Lei Zhang SOM ‘‘02, a Chinese hedge 
fund manager and friend of Zhang and her husband 
and business partner Pan Shiyi. The Chief of Staff of 
the SOHO Foundation passed Salovey a message: The 
couple was funding a ten million dollar scholarship 
for low-income Chinese students to study at American 
universities. Would Yale like to be a part of it?

The SOHO Foundation is part of an expanding net-
work of Chinese philanthropists interested in donating 
to American institutions of higher education. In the 
last ﬁve years, in addition to the ten million dollars 
from SOHO, Yale has received a gift of 8.9 million dol-
lars from Lei (who currently serves as a board member 



**Title: HOW HAVE UNIVERSITIES LIKE YALE HAD TO ADAPT WHEN INCREASING PORTIONS OF SIGNIFICANT DONATIONS COME FROM INTERNATIONAL DONORS—IN PARTICULAR, FROM WEALTHY CHINESE PHILANTHROPISTS?**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
HOW HAVE UNIVERSITIES 
LIKE YALE HAD TO ADAPT 
WHEN INCREASING 
PORTIONS OF SIGNIFICANT 
DONATIONS COME 
FROM INTERNATIONAL 
DONORS—IN PARTICULAR, 
FROM WEALTHY CHINESE 
PHILANTHROPISTS?


Yale’s ﬁnancial enterprise operates apart from the 
stone-carved spires of Yale’s campus. The 180-person 
Ofﬁce of Development is housed on ﬂoors eight and 
nine of the tall, gray ofﬁce building on 157 Church 
Street, just off of the Green. Few students are privy to 
the intricate fundraising initiatives that take place in 
those rooms.

Fundraising for universities is a multilayered pro-
cess involving different types of solicitation. The ﬁrst 
two levels are annual giving and corporate fundraising, 
explained C.J. Menard, an independent development 
consultant at CJM Consulting, who has worked in the 
past for Harvard University and Boston University, and 
who currently serves as an administrative dean for Deer-
ﬁeld Academy in Massachusetts. Annual giving—what 
Menard calls the “scatter-bombing of fundraising”—is 
typically solicited from alumni en masse through elec-
tronic communication and social media appeals. Cor-
porate funds are obtained through more specialized 
interactions with companies and foundations.

Then there are the big donations from individuals —
major gifts. Deﬁned by Yale as a donation of one hun-
dred thousand dollars over the course of no more than 
ﬁve years, these donations are raised through highly 
personalized interactions with donors. Major gifts ofﬁ-
cers must “think every day about a very small group of 
people, about what they can do to help their relation-
ship with the university, and make the donor feel good 
about their donations,” said Menard. In recent years, 
as major gifts have become an increasingly import-
ant part of university fundraising efforts, development 
ofﬁces have “evolved into highly proactive, and highly 
customer-service oriented teams,” said Sarah Jackson, 
an independent major gift consultant based in Bos-
ton. Major gifts do not simply materialize out of thin 
air. They’re the product of years of donor cultivation, 
screening, and negotiations.

The ﬁrst meeting between Salovey and the Chief 
of Staff of the SOHO Foundation was orchestrated 
through an intricate web of relationships in the form 
of the Yale Asia Development Council. Established 
in 2014, the Council consists of a group of sixty-four 
inﬂuential men and women, including Zhang and 
Pan, interested in strengthening strategic partner-
ships between Yale and Asia. According to a private 
document, the membership consists mostly of CEOs 
of investment banks, hedge funds, and private equity 
ﬁrms—from Bank of America to Morgan Stanley to the 
Lenovo Group—and founders of some of the largest 
start-up organizations in China, such as e-commerce 
giant Alibaba and internet provider Tencent. The 
council is a microcosm of the new economic elite of 
Asia: more than ﬁfty of the sixty-four members work 
in the ﬁnancial and real estate sectors, and ﬁfty-seven 
come from Hong Kong or China, with the rest coming 
from India, Japan, and Korea. Most members are either 
alumni of Yale or have children currently attending the 
university.

“It’s more like the Yale Council of Potential Donors,” 
joked one council member who asked to remain anon-
ymous. Currently, Lei serves as Chair of the Council, 
and former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger as its 
Honorary Chair. “Looking around the room, I found 
that I mostly recognized everyone — lawyers, bankers, 
successful entrepreneurs,” said the same council mem-
ber, describing the inaugural meeting in March 2014, 
held in a gilded conference space at The Conrad, a 
luxury hotel in Hong Kong. 


of the Yale Corporation) to the School of Management 
and a sixteen million dollar donation from Chinese 
entrepreneurs Neil Shen SOM ’92, Brad Huang SOM 
’90, and Bob Xu to establish the Yale Center of Beijing. 
Joseph Tsai, co-founder of Chinese e-commerce giant 
Alibaba, donated thirty million dollars to rename the 
Yale China Law Center the Paul Tsai Center, in honor 
of his father, and made another large donation for the 
Tsai Center for Innovative Thinking at Yale. 

Although money appears to be dropping from the 
sky, the process behind these donations is complex. 
What happens when ten million dollars is shuttled 
from a wealthy donor to an institution like Yale? How 
are relationships with international donors cultivated? 
And most importantly, how have universities like Yale 
had to adapt when increasing portions of signiﬁcant 
donations come from international donors—in partic-
ular, from wealthy Chinese philanthropists? 


At that ﬁrst meeting, Salovey and Lei, seated at the 
front of the room, introduced the council’s purpose: 
to “advance Yale’s involvement in Asia on a coun-
try-by-country basis” and “identify opportunities for 
new strategic and fundraising alliances.” Over lunch, 
each member received a blue binder with Yale’s new 
initiatives in Asia, and lunch was served.

“We all kind of knew that the main reason we were 
together was to encourage us to donate,” the anony-
mous council member claimed. “But there was never 
a point where they asked, ‘Please give to the school.’ 
There was never a solicitation of a donation. It was very 
subtly and tactfully done.” To follow up, James McDon-
ald, the Senior Director of International Fundraising at 
Yale at the time, sent email updates and council meet-
ing invitations. “This Jim McDonald guy has kept in 
touch with me for three years,” said the council mem-
ber. “But there was never a suggestion that I should 
be giving, even though you know that his key job is to 
solicit money.”

The members of the council, like all potential 
donors, were carefully researched beforehand. The 
Yale Development Ofﬁce has a team that researches all 
top-level donors, hires external consultants, brings in 
lawyers from the Yale general council ofﬁce, and con-
sults trusted friends in the Yale network, like Lei, to 
weigh in. In the case of the SOHO Scholarship dona-
tions, Zhang and Pan had Lei’s seal of approval. 

In spite of the growing inﬂux of donations from 
China, giving money to universities is still a uniquely 
American concept. Within the U.S., the job of solicit-
ing donations is a “well-choreographed routine where 
everyone knows what to expect,” said Menard. The 
U.S. has a widespread culture of philanthropy. “Every-
one donates,” explained Menard, “regardless if it’s a 
multi-million-dollar donation or ﬁve dollars to your 
local Audubon Society.” But, outside of the U.S., the 
concept of donating to an alma mater is novel. Menard 
remembers how an international alumnus at Boston 
University once compared donations to universities to 
buying a sweater at a store and then receiving a letter 
from the store ﬁve years later, saying, “‘Hey look, you 
bought a sweater from us once, and now we’re expand-
ing the store, do you think you could give us hand?’ 
The guy thought, ‘I got a diploma at BU and I paid for 
it,’” recounted Menard. “‘So why are you asking me for 
money years later?’”

Conducting international fundraising from China 
is therefore not for the faint of heart or budget: travel 
is hard, outreach efforts are costly, and success is ulti-
mately unpredictable. “In China,” Menard says, “all 
the things we know how to do go ﬂying out of the win-
dow.”


After three years of emails from McDonald, the 
council member with whom I spoke never ended up 
donating to Yale. “I would guess that 90 percent of the 
people at the meeting do not give money,” he specu-
lated. But when the other 10 percent, donors like Pan 
and Zhang, do decide to donate, they give ten million 
dollars.

“Who knows?” the council member asked. “If Jim 
keeps this up for ten years, maybe I’ll start to feel like I 
have an obligation to donate too.”


Solicitation is only the ﬁrst part of the game. The 
second, harder part comes next: negotiation. Today, 
according to Terry Holcombe ‘64, a development con-
sultant who worked as the Vice President for Alumni 
Affairs and Development at Yale from 1981 to 1998, this 
process has grown more challenging. “When I began, 
gifts were simply given. Now they’re almost always 
negotiated,” Holcombe told the Yale Alumni Maga-
zine in 2001. “Donors have become more inquisitive, 
more assertive, and more speciﬁc about what they give 
money for.” 

 “Gone are the days of unrestricted philanthropy in 
which donors give and explicitly trust the institution to 
use their funds widely,” echoed consultant Sarah Jack-
son. This paradigm shift has given rise to what develop-
ment professionals have called “venture philanthropy” 
in American universities. An increasing number of 
donors see their gifts as a form of investment and expect 
to be involved in the way their money is used.

In the case of the SOHO scholarships, Zhang and 
Pan had explicitly articulated intentions: to provide 
American education—what they perceived as a crucial 
path to greater social mobility—to young, low-income 
Chinese students. Zhang attributes her own transfor-
mation from a factory girl to a billionaire entrepreneur 
to the scholarships she received from Sussex University 
and Cambridge. Because she wants to replicate this 
opportunity for students like her, the SOHO donations 
come with clear stipulations. The scholarship guaran-
tees that the income from the donations will always go 

DONORS HAVE BECOME 
MORE INQUISITIVE, MORE 
ASSERTIVE, AND MORE 
SPECIFIC ABOUT WHAT 
THEY GIVE MONEY FOR.



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Yi-Ling Liu**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
25
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
to students from China that have need, regardless of 
any external economic changes. In the event of is an 
economic recession, such a stipulation would act as a 
kind of shield against market forces that could affect 
Yale’s endowment and its ability to support the educa-
tion of low-income Chinese students. The Yale Devel-
opment Ofﬁce has also had to prove to SOHO that they 
would make a more targeted effort to recruit students 
from rural Chinese provinces, regions from which the 
university has not admitted many students in the past. 
Given cultural differences between American and 
Chinese philanthropy, the process of negotiation is not 
always comfortable. An example of such a difference 
is the Chinese emphasis on efﬁciency. “Development 
ofﬁcers from the U.S. are used to the long, drawn-out 
cultivation process,” said Menard. “I get to know you 
and you get to know me. You know I am a fundraiser, 
but it is a while before we actually start a serious con-
versation about the big gift.” In China, the process 
is accelerated. “China is a place where two strangers 
will meet over dinner and halfway through they will 
have told each other how much they earn,” explained 
Menard, who often dealt with Chinese donors in his 
work. “The Chinese are not squeamish about their 
money.”

Speed is not unique to China: it also characterizes 
the major gifts negotiations of many rapidly develop-
ing nations across the globe, such as the United Arab 
Emirates, Russia, and India. Boston University, where 
Menard used to work as a development ofﬁcer, once 
sent out a questionnaire to alumni asking them to share 
their net worth. “Some rich guy in Dubai checked the 
highest category, of ﬁfty million dollars plus,” said 
Menard. “Twenty-six months later, he signed the larg-
est gift in the history of the university, having had zero 
contact before and having made zero previous gifts. 
This was incredible, but when we are talking about 
international gifts—from places like China—it is not 
that uncommon anymore.” 

One point of contention, though, is that Chinese 
philanthropists may have an agenda that does not 
match the ethos of American universities. In China, 
“donors tend to be more transactional,” said Menard. 
“There is an expectation of quid pro quo.” Admissions 
is particularly sticky territory for international donors. 
“Throughout my years of doing this, I have certainly 
ﬁelded calls from representatives of families that go 
along the lines of: this family has a son or daughter, the 
father would like to write a check, how big a check?”

Tom Tseng, Vice President of Development at the 
University of Hawaii, has had many similar experi-
ences. “Some people might have gotten well-meaning 
but erroneous advice that if one gave a large sum of 
money, that one’s child or children would be guaran-
teed admissions to the desired institution,” he said. 
Universities strive make clear at every step of the 
conversation that there is no quid pro quo, particularly 
with regards to the admission process. Admissions deci-
sions by Yale in theory are always made before negotia-
tions about donations begin. 

Yale, however, is rich. Not all universities have the 
luxury and the ﬁnancial means to adhere to such prin-
ciples. Donations in exchange for admissions are not 
unheard of among less well-endowed universities. 
According to a Kaplan Test Prep survey, one hundred 
admissions ofﬁcers from four hundred top colleges and 
universities said that they have “felt pressured to accept 
an applicant who didn’t meet the school’s admissions 
requirements because of who that applicant was con-
nected to.”


Regardless of the messy motivations attached to 
these donations, major gifts from China will only con-
tinue to pour into American universities thanks to a 
combination of powerful, historical forces at work: a 
deep-rooted, century-long Confucian education tradi-
tion, the growing international appeal of the American 
model of the liberal arts college, and most crucially, 
China’s rapid economic growth.

The nation’s economic boom in the last three 
decades has resulted in an explosion of highly concen-
trated wealth holders (there are now 335 billionaires in 
China) similar to those in the United States in the late 
nineteenth century. “We once had our robber barons, 
Carnegies and Mellons. What did they do with all their 
new money? They built yachts, huge mansions and 
sent their kids to the ﬁnest schools,” explained Menard. 
“But at some point, after spending all this money, they 
had to sit back and think—what next? What do I do 
with all this great wealth? The next, natural step was 
philanthropy.”

Many young Chinese investors and entrepreneurs, 


--- Page 26 ---

26
having gone through a similar thought process, directed 
their philanthropic efforts to education. According 
to a study done by the China Philanthropy Project, a 
research effort established in 2015 at the Harvard Ash 
Center to identify trends in charitable giving among 
China’s wealthy, more than two-thirds of the hundred 
philanthropists surveyed cited education as one of the 
causes that they support. They are also increasingly 
choosing to direct their efforts abroad. “As their per-
sonal experience becomes more global, their children 
are educated abroad and they tend to acquire foreign 
property,” said Edward Cunningham, Director of the 
Ash Center China Programs, in an interview published 
on the Ash Center’s website. “The social network of 
these newly wealthy will tend to globalize.” In the last 
two years alone, Hong Kong investor Gerald Chan 
donated two hundred ﬁfty million dollars to the Har-
vard School of Public Health, and Columbia Univer-
sity received ﬁve million dollars to establish the Tang 
Center for Early China. And those are just the big gifts. 
 “Word of mouth spreads fast. A Chinese parent will 
send a kid to Yale, become familiar with the American 
concept of donating, tell their friends, who’ll start to 
donate too,” explained Menard. “It’s a snowball that 
just keeps growing.”

As Chinese philanthropy matures and globalizes, 
fundraising teams across the United States are quick 
to adapt. “When I ﬁrst started this profession in 1987, 
other development ofﬁcers were always like, don’t 
waste your time outside of the United States, don’t 
bother with international donors,” said Menard. “A day 
in New York will beat a month anywhere else outside 
of this country.” 

Twenty years later, as donations roll in from China, 
international fundraising can no longer be an after-
thought. Go to a fundraising conference today, and 
it is hard to walk into any part of the room and not 
overhear a conversation in Chinese. “In the last ten 
years, I have seen a visible shift in not only front-line 
fundraisers who are either Chinese or Chinese-Amer-
icans [or] who are ﬂuent in Mandarin, but also non-
Asians who are proﬁcient in Chinese,” said Tseng, the 
VP at the University of Hawaii. The Council for the 
Advancement and Support of Education, a nonproﬁt 
association of educational institutions headquartered 
in Washington, D.C., opened an Asia-Paciﬁc branch 
in Singapore ten years ago and started to offer training 
conferences in Chinese in 2011. “To me, this shows a 
greater recognition that more cross-pollination, train-
ing, and better understanding between the East and 
the West has become imperative,” Tseng said. 

This growing Chinese inﬂuence is not always wel-
comed with open arms. Under a 1992 revision to the 
Higher Education Act of 1965, colleges and universi-
ties must annually report foreign gifts and contracts of 
two hundred ﬁfty thousand dollars or more to the U.S. 
Department of Education, a move intended to monitor 
inﬂuence from foreign donors. However, the type of 
inﬂuential Chinese donor that the United States once 
feared even a few years ago—one hoping to buy inﬂu-
ence for personal gain—may look very different from 
a Chinese donor today. According to Tseng, Chinese 
donors have evolved from “mere givers to philanthro-
pists,” he said. “Many are now partnering with institu-
tions with speciﬁc goals for the betterment of the future 
as opposed to simply having a leverage.” 

Tseng cited the one hundred ﬁfteen million dollar 
gift made last year by Chinese businesspeople Tianqiao 
Chen and Chrissy Luo to the California Institute of 
Technology to establish a new institute funding inter-
disciplinary brain research. Chen and Luo founded 
Shanda Interactive, the largest Internet entertainment 
developer in China. “We believe that uncovering how 
the brain perceives, interprets, and interacts with the 
world can shape groundbreaking industries, play a crit-
ical role in addressing social issues such as aging and 
behavioral deﬁciencies,” said Chen in an interview 
conducted by Caltech. “And even help answer ulti-
mate questions about life.”

Another example is Chen Yidan, founder of Chi-
nese Internet giant Tencent, who is known in China 
as “the First Philanthropist in the Internet Industry.” 
Chen is attempting to import models of American edu-
cation back home to China. One of his most signiﬁcant 
undertakings has been to single-handedly establish 
and endow Wuhan College, the ﬁrst private non-proﬁt 
school in central China. “There are many things that 
Chinese universities can learn from their American 
counterparts,” said Chen, “from residential college 
structures, to fostering a culture of alumni giving, to 
developing a liberal arts curriculum that teaches the 
whole person and not just a particular skill.” 

Shortly after his donation to the Yale China Law 
Center, Joe Tsai made another donation to support the 


--- Page 27 ---

27
construction and launch of the Tsai Center for Inno-
vative Thinking at Yale (Tsai CITY). The Center will 
be located at the southern stretch of Prospect Street 
and Hillhouse Avenue, adjacent to the Center for Engi-
neering Innovation and Design. “For me, it is espe-
cially vital that young people in the world today gain 
comfort with taking risks—with framing the problem, 
thinking in an interdisciplinary way, and trying ‘out-of-
the-box’ approaches,” said Tsai, paying tribute to the 
role that innovative thinking has played on his own life 
and career trajectory as the co-founder of e-commerce 
giant Alibaba. 

Like the American nouveau riche of the late nine-
teenth century, wealthy Chinese like Tsai are preoc-
cupied with more than just questions of power, inﬂu-
ence, and how to get their children into Ivy League 
universities. They are grappling with familiar questions 
that accompany economic excess: How should I give 
back to my community? How can I create meaningful 
change?


After her talk at Sterling Memorial Library last 
November, Zhang met with the fourteen SOHO schol-
ars to discuss their experiences at Yale. When discus-
sion veered into the still-fresh Trump victory, Zhang 
was struck by the thoughtfulness of the students’ com-
ments. Most of the scholars had been in the U.S. for 
less than a year, yet they had become intensely invested 
in the nuances of American politics and the future of 
democracy. “I think that our conversation made her 
even more committed to donate to American universi-
ties,” said Barkley Dai ’20, one of the SOHO Scholars. 
“Trump campaigned on a platform of anti-globaliza-
tion and Zhang sees the scholarship as a force to coun-
teract that.” 

Fundraising for universities is messy and complex. 
Any process that deals with hunting down and secur-
ing large, unpredictable quantities of money requires 
an intricate array of moving parts—committees and 
relationships and luncheons and negotiations and 
sweet-talking fundraising ofﬁcers and whispers about 
tit for tat — that grease the wheels of the system. And 
there is still some element of self-interest in major gifts, 
albeit not the sort of sinister leverage feared in the past. 
Menard remembers a time at an education confer-
ence in Boston when somebody heard that he was an 
advancement ofﬁcer and joked to the people nearby: 
“Stand back folks, and hold onto your wallets!”

“It was a joke, but words like that can be frustrating, 
because they do not seem to realize that people give 
when they want to,” said Menard. “At the end of the 
day, they give to feel good.” 

But the projects undertaken and funded by major 
gifts from Chinese donors seem to show that there are 
goals bigger than personal interests that are driving this 
ﬁnancial machinery. At stake is not just large sums of 
money, but educational goals and the future of U.S.-
China relations. As the Yale Asia Development Coun-
cil member put it, “It is like elephant hunting. You 
have to play the long game.”

— Yi-Ling Liu  graduated
from Silliman College in 2017.



**Title: P O E M**
**Author: Sidney Saint-Hillaire**
**Page number(s): 28**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Back before I knew the politics of walking with your chin up
When I was bright eyed and 20/20’d
I’d sneak to the outer orbit of the playground
nestle myself between the comets and leftover kickballs
and watch the sun sing itself purple
Like a tuning fork wobbling into place,
The sun would sway somewhere between sapphire and emerald
Shedding stained glass over my sight
It was a parade for the patient...and the reckless
for the kids who wait till greenlights to play hopscotch
the ones who save their kite string for thunderstorms
For a black boy who was too scared of making people feel scared
Sun-gazing was my way of feeling dangerous, 
Jumping from the top of the stairs 
screaming at the mirror
Grasping the iron just long enough to feel the heat
These are the ways I stay sane
My last resorts for when I leave myself on mute for too long
With our eyes locked skyward
We can still feel the cautious glances
Nervous surveillance pulled taught
Draped over our skin
More like a villain’s cape than a bull’s eye
Lead, velvet, billowing
Reminding us we are always dangerous
I’d holster my hands
lock my eyelids
search for ways to make myself seem less like a bomb
For ways to diffuse the clutched purses and tense shoulders
I tiptoed in the daylight
hoping the ground would forget I am there
Thinking what part of a black boy’s imagination was there left to 
declaw?
To make protect people from?
It’s only now that I realized I haven’t stared at the sun in a while
I walk light, I keep my eyes on the cement
I cross the street when I see old white ladies coming
Like I’m afraid of what they’re afraid of
Like my eyes on the horizon meant I am hunting
Meant I am deserving of being hunted
Now I keep my spine arched
Always to dive into my shadow
And forget how sorry I am for their fear
How I hold the weight of their worry between my shoulders
And tell myself they’re wings
How walking without remembering my skin sets me too close too the 
sun
Forgot how in the sunlight black boys look charred
With red in their eyes and coal in their grip
Forget how to stare at the sun
— Sidney Saint-Hillaire is a sophomore 
in Benjamin Franklin College.


**Title: Collages of Brent and Randy**
**Author:  (Photo courtesy of Karine Heard)**
**Page number(s): 30**

Collages of Brent and Randy, which their mother Karine made for the sentencing hearing of Timothy Paprocki 
(Photo courtesy of Karine Heard)



**Title: THE EPIDEMIC AT HOME**
**Author: Daisy Massey**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The day her son Brent died, Karine Heard had a 
migraine. She was at a drive-through bank teller when 
he called, asking whether she had a piece of his mail at 
home. “Probably. I’ll have to look,” she whispered into 
her phone, trying to be discreet. She thought about asking 
him to lunch but decided against it because of her headache. Brent told her he needed a document that matched 
the name on his ID so he could check into a methadone 
clinic—another attempt at getting clean.

Heard, who lives in Waterford, was used to juggling 
her son’s addiction treatment. Brent had begun taking 
synthetic heroin when he was just 14, crushing it up and 
snorting it. Soon he started injecting it through an IV. 
At that time, Brent’s older brother Randy, a model with 
the Ford Models agency, was living in New York and also 
using heroin. The brothers had been in the same social 
circles at Waterford High School but never took the drug 
together. “They had that respect for each other,” Heard 
says. Most of their old cohort is gone now; since they graduated high school, about two of their friends have fatally 
overdosed each year.

Drug overdose is the leading cause of death for Americans under the age of 50. Last year alone, there were 
sixty thousand fatal drug overdoses, the majority of which 
involved opioids. It’s an epidemic that has ravaged communities across the country, from towns nestled in the 
Appalachian Mountains to cities along the Connecticut 
coast:  Waterford, Bridgeport, New Haven. Although Connecticut ranks twenty-ninth in terms of state population, 
it has the eleventh highest opioid-related death rate in 
the country. And it’s only getting worse. The Connecticut 
Medical Examiner’s Ofﬁce predicts 1,078 drug overdose 
deaths in the state this year, an eighteen percent increase 
from 2016.

Young adults between the ages of 18 and 25, who tend 
to be both emotionally and ﬁnancially dependent on their 
parents, are the hardest-hit population in the opioid epidemic. In recognition of young peoples’ vulnerability to 
addiction, Connecticut has begun to shift its priorities. 
The state has poured $335 million into its substance abuse 
services, funneling state funding into in-home treatment, 
including “family therapy teams” that work with young 
people and their relatives on substance abuse issues. Doctors are now allowed to prescribe Narcan, an opioid antidote, more easily, and teens’ friends have legal immunity 
if they administer Narcan while themselves high or in 
possession of drugs.

But no amount of funding can fully alleviate the weight 
of suffering that the families of addicted people shoulder. 
In Heard’s court statement to the man sentenced for dealing the drugs that killed her son, she prayed that he change 
his life and offered forgiveness. “You are someone’s son,” 
she told him. “You have a mother.”

For families, addiction treatment isn’t just a one-time 
effort, but a circuitous process of decision-making and 
waiting. Many ﬁnd the landscape of treatment options 
overwhelming to navigate, especially when programs are 
overcrowded or have prohibitively high costs. Some parents ﬁrst reach out to those who have already struggled 
through a child’s addiction, relying on social networks 
like the one created by Community Speaks Out, an organization based in New London. Sometimes families can 
afford to send their child to a comprehensive, expensive 
long-term program like Turnbridge, a rehabilitation center on Orange Street in New Haven. But other families 
are largely absent from their children’s recovery processes, 
and those struggling with addiction ﬁnd surrogate communities in places like Teen Challenge, a Christian recovery center located near New Haven Union Station.


No matter the route, addiction treatment is a complex 
process: doctors ﬁrst recommend detox, then a thirty- or 
forty-ﬁve-day rehabilitation program, followed by a stay 
in a sober house or a safe, monitored environment. But 
families face difﬁculties at each stage. Health insurance 
doesn’t always cover addiction treatment and the dearth of 
regulated, affordable options creates a cycle of relapse for 
people recovering from addiction. If a person does complete a rehabilitation program—despite steep dropout 
rates—they are still far from recovery. Sober houses have 
high risks of relapse, as they are unregulated and generally 
have no security, bed checks, or visitor restrictions.

Three New London County mothers have recently 
stepped in to guide other families through the throes of 
addiction and substance abuse treatment. In 2015, Tammy 
de la Cruz, Linda Labbe, and Lisa Cote Johns founded 
Community Speaks Out, an organization aimed at helping families navigate treatment options. It was a struggle 
that the other mothers knew all too well—each of their 
families, too, had been touched in some way by addiction.

The group formed when de la Cruz’s son, Joey Gingerella, started speaking at local high schools about his 
battle with addiction. Joey died last December, not from 
a needle but from a bullet. He was killed outside a Groton bar when he intervened to stop a man from beating 
his girlfriend. The three mothers persevered through 
this tragedy, continuing their mission to support affected 
families and increase awareness of addiction prevention 
programs. So far, they have reached communities all over 
Connecticut and have helped over two hundred people 
enter rehabilitation programs.

Their organization offers assistance with every part of 
their clients’ needs. In addition to working day jobs, the 
three women manage support groups, conventions, and 
legislative initiatives, and help clients navigate insurance 
coverage. Their work with recovering addicts is tireless—
and uncompensated. “If someone wants to go to rehabilitation,” Cote Johns says, “we get them in.”

Community Speaks Out absorbs new (non-paying) clients into a network of sympathy and encouragement, and 
the women stay in constant contact with them. Cote Johns 
doesn’t hesitate to shoulder other families’ heartaches; it’s 
part of the job, she says. She has called one mother twice 
a week for the past year to check in on her children. “We 
become family,” Cote Johns sighed. It’s a bond that no 
one wants to have to share, but one that becomes an essential lifeline during periods of familial conﬂict or grief.

This past January, Community Speaks Out received 
major recognition for its work: a ﬁve thousand dollar 
grant from Lawrence + Memorial Hospital in New London, an afﬁliate of Yale-New Haven Hospital. Through 
the grant, Community Speaks Out will become Connecticut’s ﬁrst designated certiﬁer of sober houses. After undergoing training in March with the Massachusetts Alliance 
for Sober Housing, de la Cruz, Labbe, and Cote Johns 
called up every New London sober house, inviting each to 
register with the organization. So far, six have registered. 
Their regulation requires consistent safeguards like curfew check-ins, visitor regulations, Narcan availability, and 
training. The group is starting in New London, but hopes 
to expand across Connecticut to cities like New Haven.

The need to regulate sober houses is a personal one for 
Cote Johns. The year her son Christopher died, he was 33, 
hoping to get back on his feet after a thirteen-year battle 
with addiction and six months in jail for violating probation. He had become hooked on drugs after taking prescription pain medications for routine surgeries in high 
school. On the day Christopher was released from jail, 
he had been sober for almost eight months. One of Cote 
Johns’s friends picked him up and took him to a rehabilitation center, but all the beds were full.

For recovering addicts, ﬁnding an available spot in a 
rehab center after a detox program can be extremely challenging. Cote Johns estimates that nine out of the ten 
times she calls a center, all the beds are full. In theory, 
New Haven has ﬁfteen “Substance Abuse Care Facilities,” but that number includes only a couple of dedicated 
rehab centers.

Since Christopher had already detoxed on his own and 
had to wait on rehabilitation, he and Cote Johns’ friend 
drove directly to a sober house in New London. There 
are thirty sober houses in New London; New Haven has 
thirty-three. None are registered and few have any regulations. Though they are supposed to be safe places for 
people to recover from addiction, in reality, anyone can 
walk in and hand drugs to the residents. Christopher had 
stayed at many sober houses, and at every one of them, 
people were taking drugs.

The ﬁrst few months of sobriety, when recovering 
addicts transition from detox to rehabilitation, are a critical window in the recovery process. In this period, they 
experience the physical effects of opioid withdrawal—
anxiety, nausea, and vomiting—while learning to cope 
with stress without drugs. Many are tempted to start using 
again when cravings are intense and supervision is not. 
Those ﬁrst few months are also when most fatal overdoses 
occur. People fresh out of detox may not realize their tolerance has dropped, so a once-routine dose can kill them.

Christopher knew detox programs didn’t work. He told 
Cote Johns, “We need to ﬁx ourselves from the inside. I 
have to change this, Mom.”

But Christopher wasn’t able to save himself, and Cote 
Johns couldn’t save him, either.  He died while living in 
a sober house and waiting for a spot in a rehabilitation 
program. One of his friends had walked in and given him 
the drugs that would kill him. One of Cote Johns’ friends 
found Christopher’s body the next day, after kicking down 
the door of his room.

Two years ago, Karine Heard, Brent’s mother, met 
Cote Johns at a forum for parents of children with addiction at Montville High School in Oakdale, Connecticut. 
The two women immediately bonded over their experiences with their sons. Brent was still alive at the time, 
but Cote Johns’s son Christopher had died in 2014 and 
Heard had already lost Randy. In the years since, the two 




**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 34-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
have remained close, sharing memories and moments of 
solace: Cote Johns will call up Heard and say, “Let’s go 
light lanterns.” They’ll spend the evening on the deck of 
Cote Johns’s house in Groton, talking about their sons. 
For Cote Johns, losing a child to addiction is “a different 
kind of pain, because you feel like you failed as a parent, 
as a mom.”


Last January, sipping tea in a Panera Bread in Water-
ford, Heard recounts what happened to her sons in a soft 
voice. It’s not an easy story to tell. She shifts uncomfort-
ably in her navy sweatshirt and rests a well-manicured 
hand nervously on her neck. When Brent was almost 18, 
20-year-old Randy overdosed and died, she says. “Brent—
he just couldn’t live with the fact that his brother was 
gone,” Heard says. “It was too much for him.” Brent’s drug 
use grew worse, he dropped out of high school, and that 
year he cycled through thirty-day rehabilitation programs 
in New Haven. Heard tried to give him the support and 
resources he needed, but it wasn’t enough.


For a client with private health insurance, Community 
Speaks Out could make a call to Turnbridge, a long-term 
rehabilitation center in New Haven, located on Orange 
Street near the New Haven Green. Turnbridge does not 
accept Connecticut’s public insurance, Husky, and it is 
out of network for most private insurance plans, meaning 
that copays are high. Turnbridge would not conﬁrm its 
fees, but most thirty-day programs like it are forty thou-
sand dollars. It’s a price tag that some, like Cote Johns, 
believe is far too high.
But at Turnbridge (formerly called ‘Turning Point’) cli-
ents aren’t pushed out after any set period of time. Lauren 
Springer, the center’s Family Liaison, believes the open 
timeline ensures that each participant heals completely 
and leaves only when he or she is ready. No one can say 
for sure how long a broken bone will take to heal, and 
some say the same is true for addiction. While the detox 
phase is usually six weeks, according to Springer, some 
clients stay for over nine months.
At Turnbridge, the clients live in a large, classically 
New England stone house, surrounded by well-tended 
bushes and a lush green lawn. The website boasts a bas-
ketball court, gym, and art room. In Springer’s ofﬁce on 
Orange Street, where the students come during the day 
for meetings and treatment, Oriental rugs pattern the gray 
wood ﬂoors and candy is displayed on the desk. 
A stay at Turnbridge has three phases, the ﬁrst of which 
usually lasts six weeks and helps clients detox and come 
back to a healthy baseline. Exercise, healthy eating, and 
family meetings are all part of the process. In addition to 
his or her own family’s support, each client has a case man-
ager, a therapist, a sponsor, a psychiatric APRN licensed 
to prescribe, a program director, a family liaison, and a 
family therapist. By the third phase, clients have much 
more freedom: they can take the bus to jobs in downtown 
New Haven and have less frequent appointments at the 
Turnbridge ofﬁces on Orange Street.
Like Cote Johns, Springer entered the world of addic-
tion treatment support as a mother suffering through her 
son’s addiction. When she ﬁrst started attending Narcotics 
Anonymous and Alcoholics Anonymous support groups, 
she was terriﬁed. “My son’s not like those people,” she 
thought. But when she found that the groups helped her 
heal, she started a group just for parents, for which she 
still commutes to New Jersey to run. Later, she joined 
Turnbridge, where she helps families become “part of the 
team,” as she likes to say.
Turnbridge, which accepts clients between the ages of 
18 and 26, needs the support of parents. Springer tries to 
help each family come to terms with its child’s illness. 
Sometimes parents are the ﬁrst ones to call for help, but 
they need Springer to give them the conﬁdence to tell 
their children that coming to New Haven for treatment 
is the only option. Other times, parents will deny that a 
problem exists, insisting, for example, “When I was in 
college, I smoked a lot of weed, and I did ﬁne,” Springer 
says. But the most common issue is parents enabling their 
children’s continued drug use.


“No one wants to make a change until it’s just too 
uncomfortable where they are,” Springer says. She knows 
ﬁrsthand how hard it is, as a parent, to give your child 
unconditional love and support while not facilitating their 
addictive behaviors. Her son, who was once at Turnbridge 
but left in the middle of the program, is still using drugs. 
She admits that she doesn’t know where he is right now. “I 
will pay for treatment, I will visit him when he’s in treat-
ment, I will do whatever I can while staying on my side 
of the fence,” she says. The current situation “breaks her 
heart,” but she knows she can only do so much to guide 
and protect him.


Manny Barreto decided to change his life when he 
woke up from life support, his face wet with his aunt’s 
tears. It was the ﬁrst time he had ever overdosed. At the 
time, Barreto was a 28-year-old manufacturing marketer 
in Brooklyn, New York. He had started doing molly, 
which contains the drug MDMA, years before. But when 
his drug dealer ran into trouble in the neighborhood, he 
switched to pure MDMA, and then to Ecstasy.
The evening he overdosed, he drank alcohol, smoked 
weed, and took ﬁve different kinds of Ecstasy pills. The 
high hit all at once, and he stumbled downstairs to 
a friend’s apartment to ask for help before passing out. 
Though he faded in and out of consciousness in the 
ambulance, he remembers lying on the cot, wearing a 
wife beater in January, thinking, “This is the totality of my 
existence on the planet? I’m gonna die a drug addict in 
the back of an ambulance?”
Now a big-boned man with a dark mess of curls, glasses, 
and a black beard that widens with his grin, Barreto jokes 
that back then, he looked shriveled up, like a “turtle with-
out its shell.”
Barreto’s life was changed by Teen Challenge, a global 
Christian ministry that has a recovery house in New 
Haven, among other branches across the world. The 
New Haven outpost is located in a group of run-down 
wooden houses clustered on Spring Street, near New Hav-
en-Union Station and just a mile away from Turnbridge. 
Strictly speaking, it’s neither a rehabilitation center nor a 
homeless shelter, but there are beds, a shared kitchen, and 
sitting areas where the men discuss Bible passages. The 
organization opens its doors to anyone who wants to get 
closer to God, but most of the participants struggle with 
addiction, too. The New Haven location is only for men 
over the ages of 18, but Teen Challenge New England has 
three women’s homes, and there are branches on almost 
every continent of the world. “We run out of beds, we’ll 
get a sleeping bag for you,” Barreto says.
After Barreto’s mother became abusive, he was adopted 
by his aunt and uncle, both of whom are ministers. Grow-
ing up, he knew about Teen Challenge’s ministry work, 
and the organization visited their church from time to 
time. So, when his aunt pulled back the curtain in the 
emergency room and said, “Are you ready to go to Teen 
Challenge?” Barreto was too tired to refuse. Leaving 
everything behind in Brooklyn, he enrolled at the New 
Haven location in 2012 and has been there ever since, ﬁrst 
as a client and now as a staff member.
In many ways, the ﬁfteen-month program is similar to 
other long-term rehabilitation programs like Turnbridge. 
It has four phases, each one emphasizing personal disci-
pline, healing from the inside, and making plans for a 
healthy future. There are chores, mentors, and, in the last 
phase, job opportunities.
But the programs differ in terms of how they approach 
family involvement. At Teen Challenge, men are cut off 
from their families and friends in order to avoid the temp-
tation to return to their old lives. Barreto is no longer in 
touch with anyone he used to use drugs with; almost all 
of those people have already died. At Turnbridge, par-
ents and families are integral parts of the healing process 
and receive training in how to support loved ones with 
addictions. Unlike the widespread support network at 
Turnbridge, Teen Challenge’s clients meet with a single 
mentor. Teen Challenge is unafraid to discipline men 
who relapse or disrespect authority, whereas Turnbridge 
treats relapse or behavioral issues with therapy and more 
time in the program. If someone smokes or talks back to a 
staff member at Teen Challenge, he will be set back in the 
program’s phases and given more chores. At Turnbridge 
last month, young men were vaping on the sidewalk.
The two programs also differ in the demographics of 
their clientele. While the opioid epidemic more broadly 
skews white—80 percent of drug overdose deaths in Con-
necticut this year have involved white people—in New 
Haven, where there are signiﬁcant Black and Hispanic 
populations, the epidemic crosses racial lines. Every client 
I saw in the hallways or outside at Turnbridge was white. 
At Teen Challenge, a car of Black men pulled out of the 
driveway and waved to me as they headed to their jobs 
in town. Turnbridge, which takes only private insurance 
for medical fees, also has residential fees that are around 
nine thousand dollars a month. At Teen Challenge, par-
ticipants are asked to give what they can, but it’s unusual 
that they can pay the fees in full: $750 per month, plus a 
$750 intake fee. Many men come for free. And there are 
no medical bills, as no doctors work in the Teen Chal-
lenge house.
Comparing the success of the two programs is difﬁcult. 
In 2017, Turnbridge published an outcome study report-
ing that 70 percent of all of its clients reach one year of 
sobriety and 80 percent of that group complete another 
year. These numbers are striking compared to the national 
average; the National Center on Addiction and Substance 
estimates that only 30 percent of all people who complete 
a rehab program are successful. But addiction is a life-long 
struggle, and Turnbridge clients could easily relapse after 
two years. The most recent numbers on Teen Challenge 
are from a 1999 dissertation at Northwestern, in which a 
political science graduate student found that 86 percent of 
clients were drug-free after three years, and, perhaps most 
strikingly, 91 percent were employed.
In the ﬁrst part of the program at Teen Challenge, men 
detox without drugs to wean them off heroin. Barreto says 
that opioid-based detox clinics that use drugs like metha-
done, a synthetic opioid, don’t solve addiction; they just 
substitute one form of it for another. After all, he asks, 
what’s the point of getting clean? To “experience life.” 
He’s seen men come to the program because, even after 
ten years, they couldn’t kick their methadone addiction. 
The ﬁrst thing Barreto tells incoming men is to accept the 
fact that, whatever their addiction, it will tempt them to 
leave. When their cravings start to push them toward the 
door, they have Barreto’s phone number and are told to 
call if he is not in his ofﬁce. At private-pay rehabilitation 
centers, Barreto says, the staff clocks out at 5 p.m. They 
call it “boundaries,” he scoffs.
Barreto knows how hard it can be to resist the temp-
tation of leaving. But he was sustained by the other men 
in the program, like his now-colleague Steve Stokes, the 
program supervisor, who was six months into the program 
when Barreto ﬁrst arrived. Unlike Barreto, when Stokes 
came to the program, he had already been in and out of 
rehabilitation for more than ten years. In a thick Boston 
accent, he describes how it started when he began drink-
ing to the point of blacking out at the age of 13. He started 
self-medicating to deal with his Obsessive Compulsive 
Disorder (OCD). To add to his stress, his mother was abu-
sive and cheated on her Stokes’s father with his uncle, at 
which point Stokes’s father left. Stokes’s OCD resulted in 
powerful hallucinations that he experienced throughout 
his youth. When he was ten, he says, he was taking a test 
when a voice in his head warned him, “If you don’t get up 
and walk over to the chalkboard and break that piece of 
chalk right now, your dad’s gonna get into a car accident.” 
He got up, broke the chalk, and was kicked out of the 
classroom.
Stokes’s OCD was treated by doctors at McClean Hos-
pital OCD Institute in Boston, where he was prescribed 
Klonopin. But he began abusing the medication and using 
it alongside heroin. Klonopin makes a heroin overdose 
more likely. In addition to his drug use, Stokes’s anger 
problems, which he thinks developed as a result of his abu-
sive household, led him to crime and gangs. By the time 
he was 22, he had overdosed ten times. When he wasn’t 
in the hospital or a thirty-day program, he was washing 
his clothes in puddles and living in his car. Stokes’s dad 
tried to stay in his life, but after Stokes overdosed twice, he 
kicked him out of the house. “I can’t have you dying here 
on this couch,” his dad told him.
Stokes’s hands, wrapped in tattoos, start to ﬁdget as he 
goes through his story. As he recounts his last overdose, 
he pauses to wipe tears from his eyes. He had been on a 



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Daisy Massey**
**Page number(s): 37-38**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
sleepless four-day binge on speed and heroin, he says. His 
friend, a woman who has since died from an overdose, 
lured him into her car with drugs. She took him to the 
hospital where he protested for three hours in the parking 
lot, tearing her car apart and threatening to kill her if she 
made him go inside. She ﬁnally convinced him and, after 
doctors strapped him down, he woke up to his dad plead-
ing with him to go to Teen Challenge. “I’ll try,” he said, 
knowing that he had nothing to lose.


Like Springer, Barreto insists that addiction cannot be 
isolated to a single source. “We understand that it’s no 
longer just biological, just psychological, just sociologi-
cal,” he says. He acknowledges that not everyone who tries 
drugs becomes addicted. Teen Challenge does not wish to 
punish people addicted to drugs for their “injury,” as Bar-
reto calls it, but the approach does “use biblical principles 
to correct some of their character ﬂaws.” A person with 
an addiction is a slave to his own desires, contradicting 
the Apostle Paul, who taught, “I will be a slave to nothing 
except Christ,” explains Barreto.


Hoping to one day operate out of a safer location than 
the current outpost on Spring Street, the Connecticut 
branch of Teen Challenge is raising money by renovat-
ing condominiums it was gifted. The men in the house, 
alongside local church groups, provide the labor, and the 
leases or sales of the condos will provide funds for the 
organization. Barreto envisions a large house in the coun-
tryside, akin to something like the Turnbridge mansion.


When Karine Heard talks about her younger son, 
Brent, she still slips into present tense: “My son tells me,” 
or, “Brent likes…” She struggled with him constantly 
throughout his adolescence—from the age of 14, she says, 
he seemed stuck in a revolving door of addiction treat-
ment, homelessness, jail, even life support. His parents 
tried tough love, enabling, and everything inbetween. She 
left food for him in the outside fridge or drove him where 
he needed to go just to avoid giving him cash.


But there was only so much of Brent’s life that she 
could control. On April 12, 2016, shortly after he called his 
mother to ask for a piece of mail, he made another call, to 
his acquaintance Timothy Paprocki, to ask him for drugs. 
Later that day, Brent overdosed on fentanyl-laced heroin 
in Paprocki’s car in Groton. Paprocki didn’t call for help. 
Emergency Medical Services found Brent some time later 
and transported him to the hospital, where he was pro-
nounced dead upon arrival.


Heard got the call from the Lawrence + Memorial 
emergency room at 8:30 that night. She knew the number 
by heart. When the nurse on the phone asked Heard to 
come meet the doctor, Heard started screaming, “No! No! 
No!” The woman replied, “Please drive safely,” and Heard 
threw the phone across the ﬂoor.


Heard was sure that Brent was dead. “Karine, you don’t 
know that,” her husband reassured her. Maybe he’d had a 
heart attack, he said. Maybe he was okay. As they pulled 
up to the hospital, they passed an ambulance leaving. 
Then a police car and another ambulance and another 
police car. EMTs watched the parents walk in. The doctor 
looked at them in the hallway and said, “I’m so sorry.” She 
told them the story, but Heard already knew it.

— Daisy Massey is a junior 
in Jonathan Edwards College.
Brent with his son (Courtesy of Karine Heard)



**Title: End Note**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 38**

E N D N O T E


**Title: Yale University Judaic Studies Fall 2017 Course Offerings**
**Page number(s): 39**

YALE UNIVERSITY 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                        
                                            JUDAIC STUDIES Fall 2017 Course Offerings 
 
 
ANCIENT 
 JDST 127 Christians in Early Jewish Sources, Michal Bar-Asher Siegal M 1-2:15p  
JDST 232 Capital Punishment Ancient Judaism, Noah Bickart T 1:30-3:20 
JDST 400 Biblical Interpretation, Christine Hayes TTh 11.35-12.50 
 
 
MEDIEVAL & EARLY MODERN 
JDST 200 Jewish History and Thought to Early Modern Times, Ivan Marcus TTh 11:35-12:50 
JDST 270 Medieval Jews, Muslims, and Christians in Conversation, Ivan Marcus T 9:25-11:15 
JDST 262 Jewish Travelers in the Medieval Mediterranean, Liran Yadgar W 9:25-11:15  
 
 
MODERN 
JDST 026 Freshman Seminar: Political Theology, Elli Stern MW 1:00-2:15 
JDST 332 Zionism, Elli Stern MW 10.30-11:20 
JDST 386/FREN353 Jewish Identity and French Culture, Maurice Samuels Th 1:30-3:20 
 
 
LITERATURE & LANGUAGE 
JDST 327 World Literature, Kirk Wetters/Hannan Hever W 3.30-5.20   
 JDST 328 Thinking Martin Buber, Hannan Hever/Asaf Angermann T 3.30-5.20   
JDST 415 Reading Yiddish, Josh Price M 1:30-3:20 
HEBR 110 Elementary Modern Hebrew (L1), Orit Yeret MTWRF 9:25-10:15 
  
HEBR 110 Elementary Modern Hebrew (L1), Dina Roginsky MTWRF 10:30-11:20 
  
HEBR 130 Intermediate Modern Hebrew(L3), Orit Yeret MW 1:00-2:15  
HEBR 130 Intermediate Modern Hebrew (L3), Shiri Goren TTh 2:30-3:45   
HEBR 159 Conversational Hebrew: Israeli Media (L5), Shiri Goren TTh 11:35-12:50   
HEBR 161 Israeli Popular Music (L5), Dina Roginsky TTh 1:00-2:15 
 
 
GRADUATE COURSES 
JDST 651 Critical Theory & Frankfurt School, Asaf Angermann Th 1.30-3.20   
 JDST 673 Intro to Babylonian Aramaic, Elitzur Bar-Asher M 9.25-11.15  
JDST 760 Rabbinics Research Seminar, Christine Hayes T 2.30-4.20    
 
_____________________________________________________________ 
 
 
Program in Judaic Studies 
451 College St., Rm. 301 
New Haven, CT 06511 
Tel – (203)432-0843, Fax – (203)432-4889 
www.judaicstudies.yale.edu 
 
Please note that information on courses, including meeting days and times, is subject to revision. Students should check the on-line course information for the 
fullest and most accurate information 



**Title: THE  NEW  JOURNAL**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
WRITERS
IDE AS
BOOKS
POETRY
PERFORMANCE
DR AMA
FILM
CONVERSATION
FREE
Windham-Campbell Prizes
Literary Festival
Yale University 
New Haven, Connecticut
September 13-15 
windhamcampbell.org


