Publication date: February 11, 2000
Volume: 32
Issue number: 4

**MASTHEAD:**
- PUBLISHER: David Slifoa
- EDITOR-IN-CHIEF: Michael Gum
- MANAGING EDITORS: liin Bkchn; Danu/ Brook
- DESIGNER: Nteholas Jitkoff
- PRODUCTION MANAGER: Eric Rothfkr
- BUSINESS MANAGER: Navin Manglani
- PHOTOGRAPHY EDITORS: Whit7UJ Grru~, Andmu lOun
- ASSOCIATE BUSINESS MANAGER: Makiko Hanmari
- ASSOCIATE EDITOR: john Swansburg
- RESEARCH DIRECTORS: ju/Uz /Vzrdon, Alan Schomfoid
- CIRCULATION AND SUBSCRIPTIONS MANAGER: Arrya !Vzmmrtz
- Staff: Shruti Adhar • Jessica Bulman • Jason D'Ctuz. • Whitney Grace • H.Uhikesh Hirw:ay • Tatima JitkoiT • Dan Kurtz-Phelan • Judy Miller • J.da Yuan
- Managing Art Directors: Emily Budon •  • Oetmnt • Ptttt 8. Cooper • Tom Griggs • Brooks Kelley • Lainic Rutkow • Hcnty Schwab • Elizabeth Sledge • Fred Strcbcigb • Thomas Strong
- Advertising: Richard Blow • Jay Carney • Richard Conniff • Ruth Conniff • Elisha Coo~r • Lauren Rabin • S1cven Weisman • Danid Yc'llin
- Printing Staff: Scm: Ballou • Anion M. Bcanl, J L • BW~ 8cnocn • Edw>nl 8. Bennett, }L • Edw>nl B. Bcnnm Ill • P>ul S. Bcnncn • Gcnld IlNdt • Batbon Bundl • Jay Carney • OapMc O.u • Jooh Civln • Joc>adw, M. (].,It • Constance Oancnt • Elioba Cooper • r..n 8. Cooper • AMy Court • Jcny aocl Rae Court • Mali Dmisoa • Alben J. """" • Mn. Howud """" • Dmd "'- • Geofficy Fried • Anwo Cancbn • Sl.cnnn Goldmaa • Dmd ~ • T- Gngs • Sccpbm HciJ.aw, • Jane Kamaulr;y • 8roob Kdlcy • Rap~ • And....-j. ~jL • lzwil E. Ldumaa 0 fUD t.o- 0 E. Nobles t.o- • Haalt M.uaobod< • M.nha E. Nal • l'<trr Neill • Howud H. Nwmm • Scan Ol!ria> • jut.. ~ • Lcwio aocl joaD Plan • }olio """" • Juha "'-- • UURII Rabin • F.itfu c. RancbJ • Rcll.n R.igo • /'.hrtt Rindb • Kochobs X. Ri>opouloo • Scu.ut R.>lucr • Atlem aocl Ardlur Sar,u • D)dc aocl o.bboc Scaa • Richard Sb.dd. • w. Ham"""' Sides • Lioa Sil-.. • Ela..b<d. aocl William ~ • Thomao Scronc • EliDhcdl Tate • Alex aocl 8cay Tordlo • Md-Turner • Allen and Sarah Warddl • Daniel Yuzjo and Anr;da Scene Y"'''n


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
FEATURES
Type Set - Photos by Whitney Grace
Essay by Don Tontiplaphol
Net Gain - Anya Karnenetz
And Then There was One - Dan Kurtz-Phelan and Nadia Sussman
Camera Obscura - Ian Blecher
STANDARDS
Points of Departure
About This Issue
Essay: Going Public - john Swansburg
The Critical Angle: Strings Attached - Alan Schomfoid
 reviewing Jasper Johns: New Paintings and Works on Paper
Endnote: Mississippi Burning - Daniel Brook


**Title: Type Set**
**Author: Photos by Whitney Grace, Essay by Don Tontiplaphol**
**Page number(s): 4**


**Title: Net Gain**
**Author: Anya Karnenetz**
**Page number(s): 9**

Trading MP3s can gtt you caught in a tangled web.


**Title: And Then There was One**
**Author: Dan Kurtz-Phelan and Nadia Sussman**
**Page number(s): 16**

Likt it or not, Yalt is now tht only player in New Haven Development.


**Title: Camera Obscura**
**Author: Ian Blecher**
**Page number(s): 22**

Is no news good ntws?


**Title: Essay: Going Public**
**Author: john Swansburg**
**Page number(s): 26**


**Title: The Critical Angle: Strings Attached**
**Author: Alan Schomfoid**
**Page number(s): 28**



**Title: Endnote: Mississippi Burning**
**Author: Daniel Brook**
**Page number(s): 30**

TH£ Ntw jOURNAL is publish«! fi~ rima during rbe ..:ademic year by TH~ NEW jouRNAL at Yale, Inc., P.O. Box 3-432 Yale Sarion, Nnr tu¥CJ, CT o6s2o. Office address: 2S2 Park Suen. Pbone: {203) 431· 
19U. All contents copyright 1000 by TH£ N..., joutNAL at Yale. Inc. All Rigbts Reserved. Rq>roducrion either in whole or in part without written pctmission of the publisher and editor in chief is ptobibired. 
While this magazine is published by Yale College srudenrs, Yale University is n<>< tapnnsibk for iu contenrs. Sewn thousand 6..., hundred copia of each issue ate dinribured free to members of rhe Yale and New 
Haven communtry. Subscriptions arc available ro those oursidc rbe area. Rates: One year, stl. Two yean. S)L TH£ Ntw jouRNAL is printed by Turley Publications, Palmer, WA; bookkttping and btlling services ate 
PI'OVtded by Colman Bookkeeping of New Hoven. THE Nnr jOURNAL encourages letters to rbe editor and comments on Yale and New Ha¥CJ issues. Writ< to Editorials, 3-431 Yale Station, New Haven, CT 
o611o. All letters for publication must indudc address and signarur<. We resc~ the rigbt to edit all letters for publication. 



**Elective Affinities**
**Author: Jessica Bulman**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Elective Affinities 
Female politician: the words quickly con-
jure images of Hillary Clinton and 
Elizabeth Dole, women in the national 
spodight seen as riding not only on their 
own qualifications but also on their hus-
bands' coattails. Most women entering pol-
itics, however, do not have husbands sitting 
in the Oval Office or Capitol, nor do they 
launch their careers with bids for senator or 
president. The real story of women in pol-
itics reveals female protagonists acting in a 
largely local arena. But the problems faced 
by Clinton and Dole in their respective 
elections-criticism of appearance and per-
sonality and difficulties in fundraising in 
particular-are common to all female 
politicians. 

What, then, is a woman entering poli-
tics without Washington connections to 
do? She can attempt to raise money, build 
coalitions, and combat the old boys' net-
work and a biased media singlehandedly, or 
she can turn to the Women's Campaign 
School (wcs) at Yale University to learn the 
latest in campaign techniques, fundraising, 
public speaking and media relations. 

Andree Brooks, a former journalist 
and county official in England, founded 
the wcs in November, 1993, hoping to pro-
vide accessible and reliable training for 
women seeking to enter politics. The 
women's movement had offered political 
training for many years, but, according to 
Brooks, "Women could only find it if they 
were already in politics." A fellow of 
Jonathan Edwards College, Brooks hoped 
to use her Yale connection to anchor train-
ing at a well-known university, whose name 
would attract students internationally. 

She has largely succeeded. For the past 
eight years, the wcs, which is co-sponsored 
by the Yale Law School and the Women's 
and Gender Studies Program, has offered 
an annual four-and-a-half-day comprehen-
sive training session for 40 students, and in 
1996 expanded its program to include sev-
eral one-day workshops. At all sessions, 
women, as well as men who plan to run 
women's campaigns, receive hands-on 
tratmng in campaign skills. They learn 
from experienced politicians, who have 
included New Jersey Governor Christine 
Todd 
Whitman 
and 
Connecticut 
Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro, and cake 
part in mock campaigns, case studies, and 
lobbying sessions. Students not only gain 
concrete skills, but also build confidence 
and coalitions, and it is this trio, rather 
than any single benefit, that Brooks cele-
brates as the school's greatest contribution. 

Brooks has good reason to herald the wcs's 
achievements. In recent municipal elec-
tions, So percent of wcs graduates who ran 
won their races, and the program boasts 
not only successful American alumnae, but 
also alumnae from Haiti, Indonesia, and 
Kenya. 

But the successes of the wcs have not 
come without a struggle. "It's been an 
uphill batde," says Brooks. Ironically, the 
challenges the wcs faces reflect the very 
obstacles the school teaches female candi-
dates to overcome. Women in politics 
encounter greater obstacles than their male 
counterparts in raising money and gaining 
access to publicity. Furthermore, media 
presentation is often biased. Women 
receive more coverage of personal charac-
teristics, such as appearance, marital status, 
and personality, and less coverage of their 
positions on issues. There is a definite dou-
ble standard operating on the political 
playing field. As Brooks says, "A woman 
has to prove herself; a man's competence is 
assumed. Whereas a woman will be criti-
cized for her looks or clothing. a man can 
get away with sloppy clothes and a raspy 
voice." 

While the wcs helps women overcome 
obstacles regarding fundraising and media 
coverage, the school itself stumbles over 
these very hurdles. "We've existed hand to 
mouth from the beginning." says Brooks, 
who launched the school with no capital. 
Today, the wcs's fiscal resources remain 
limited, and the school has difficulty adver-
tising its services. A one-day conference 
scheduled for February 5 was rescheduled 
for April due to low enrollment, and 
although the wcs has attracted students of 
diverse backgrounds, ages, and nationali-
ties, most of its students come from 
Connecticut and a small cluster of sur-
rounding states. With a limited budget and 
• publicity resources, the wcs can only reach 
so far. 

The largely local success enjoyed by 
the wcs is perhaps one more reflection of 
the current situation of female politicians: 
women are making the greatest gains in 
local elections, while change is coming 
more slowly on the national front. Despite 
an all-rime high of 65 women in Congress, 
it is nonetheless the local scene in which 
"women have made huge inroads and 
changes," states Brooks, who warns against 
focusing solely on national politics. 

Although there are congresswomen among 
wcs alumnae, they are far outnumbered by 
women serving as selectwomen, presidents 
of boards of education, and city council 
members. In Connecticut at least, local 
gains have been significant-Connecticut 
ranks ninth in percentage of female state 
legislators, and at least one half of the state's 
executive posts are held by women. 

This does not mean, however, that 
female involvement in local politics is the 
primary goal of the wcs. Women who 
enter local politics are likely to trickle up to 
national positions; the wcs hopes to turn 
this trickle into a flood. Recendy, the wcs 
has set its sights on California and is offer-
ing a two-day conference in San Francisco 
this March. Perhaps, as the wcs reaches a 
hi-coastal audience, the school will realize 
even greater success in bolstering women's 
political achievements. In any case, the 
activities of the wcs both reflect and engen-
der an important sea change for the 
American political system. 
-jessica Bulman 
THE NEW jOURNAL 


**Coming from America**
**Author: Judy Miller**
**Page number(s): 5**

Coming from America 
Consider the following possibilities. You 
walk down a hallway and see a poster 
advertising the Partisan Review. Your fresh-
man counselor makes an offhand comment 
relating Hemingway's ''A Clean Well-
Lighted Place" and Hopper's "Nighthawks" 
when he sees a copy of the painting on your 
wall. Each weekend you can choose from 
several student productions, at least one of 
which is a dramatic "classic." The highlight 
of your Halloween is a performance by 
your school's undergraduate symphony 
orchestra. Sound familiar? 

Now pretend that you go to a public 
high school in a small town in southwest-
ern Ohio named after a much grander 
town in England. This high school wins 
national awards in vocational agriculture 
but doesn't offer more than one or two 
honors classes. Now populate that school 
with students ranging from professors' kids 
to members of the Future Farmers of 
America and Future Homemakers of 
America to pseudo-gang member, pseudo-
city kids. 

That school, Talawanda High School, 
was my high school, and from the perspec-
tive ofYale, it's a pretty strange place. But 
from the perspective of home, Yale is even 
stranger. Although my town is named 
Oxford after the college in England, and 
we have our own state universiry, Miami 
Universiry, to accompany that name, peo-
ple from Oxford just don't do things like go 
to Ivy League schools. 

The three guidance counselors my 
school employed told us about our post-
secondary options: we could enter the 
workforce or the military, go to a vocation-
al program, get a two year associate's 
degree, or, if we really, really, wanted to, 
attend a four-year college or universiry-
like Ol_tio State or Miami. Distant and 
prestigious schools like Yale were never 
mentioned in the little bit of advising that 
did exist, perhaps rightly so. After all, in a 
school where the only AP class offered, AP 
Literature, was dosed due to low enroll-
ment (five students), there were obviously 
fEBRUARY 11, 2000 
very few students looking at schools like 
Yale. I remember the lone meeting the 
school had for college-bound students. It 
was in the late fall of our senior year, about 
the time decisions had been made about 
where to apply and even the biggest slack-
ers had already sent in a few applications. 
We all gathered in the sweary gymnasium, 
hardly filling up the row of bleachers where 
we were sitting, while a financial aid officer 
from Miami tried to explain to us how 
financial aid works. Then she left, and we 
were told to return to our classes. End of 
discussion. 

To some Yale students these scenes 
might seem ludicrous, bur to my high 
school classmates it is the Partisan Review, 
"Nighthawks," and theater and orchestra 
concerts that are absurd. It is when Yale 
students take these details for granted that 
I am reminded of the true rift between this 
ivory tower and home. A poster in a hall-
way is like hotel art; it's something bland 
and innocuous that everyone accepts with-
out a question. Only at a universiry like 
Yale would the Partisan Review be deemed 
such a poster. 

It's these details we take for granted 
that make me feel like an interloper here. 
Aside from a few wry groans and sympa-
thizing grimaces, hardly anyone looks 
askance at a friend spending Saturday night 
studying in the library. Sure, Naples is 
always full on a Thursday night, but so are 
the college libraries-and they're full until 
a much later hour than Naples. Every so 
often I start to forget how peculiar this 
lifesryle is, how divorced from "real 
America." 

It's easy to get caught up in the whirl 
of protesting the Taliban, watching Fight 
Club afrer a question and answer session 
with Edward Norton, and having epipha-
nies about the Odyssry and Milan Kundera. 
It would be easy never to leave this lifestyle 
of assumptions, the implicit checklist in 
the back of every good Yalie's head: a qual-
icy pre-college education, Yale, profession-
allgraduate 
school, 
high-paying job, 
designer apartment in ·"the City" or sprawl-
ing old farmhouse in the country. And it 
would be easy for me to start checking off 
that list myself. 

I'm not saying that my hometown is 
"real America." There are too many differ-
ences from place to place to designate any 
single town or region as "real." Even I'm 
not really a farm girl, though I went to a 
rural school district. My dad is a professor, 
my mom an engineer, and I took as many 
Miami classes as I could during high 
school. And hey-l'm a Yalie too. 
-judyMilkr 
Professor Kang-1 Sun Chang would like to 
make Handsome Dan a household name in 
China. The bulldog's history, along with 
fourteen other essays about Yale and its 
professors, are collected in her new book, 
Rejkctions on Yak, Gender and Culture. This 
compilation of articles, written in Chinese, 
is currently being printed in both Taiwan 
and mainland China. Chang expects her 
book to be a best-seller. 

In Taiwan, where most of these articles 
were published originally, the cult of Yale is 
already well established. Most Americans 
have probably never thought about the 
Universities of Taipei or Beijing. In Asia, 
however, there is a widespread fascination 
with Yale and Harvard, so much so that 
Chang uses Yale's name as a selling point 
when her articles are essentially about 
something else. Her essay on the Women's 
Table, for example, is in fact a case study in 
the growth of American co-education. 

Chang's articles about Yale have been well-
received: many have appeared in publica-
tions that she describes as analosues to the 
New l0rk Times or the New l0rk Review of 
Books. An article on President Levin was 
published in the Cmtrai Daily News's liter-
ary supplement. "Everybody in Taiwan 
reads the Cmtrai Daily News," says Chang. 


**Yale's Image in China**
**Author: Blair Wilson**
**Page number(s): 6**

Yale's image in the People's Republic of 
China is a little different. When Chang 
came to Yale's East Asian Literature faculty 
almost cwenty years ago, Harvard stood 
alone in the Chinese conscience as a sym-
bol of American educational excellence. 
Weakening the other school's iron grip has 
been part of her agenda all along. Chang 
considers herself a cultural ambassador and 
has consciously attempted to bolster Yale's 
reputation in China through her articles 
and books. She has written about Yale's his-
torical involvement with China; and 
Refoctions on Yale, Gmtkr and Cultur~, in a 
somewhat altered form, will appear as part 
of a series of books on great universities. 
Other books will include one on Harvard 
and another on the University of Beijing. 
(Princeton, it seems, still does not matter.) 

Chang's perspective on Yale might sur-
prise a typical undergraduate. As she 
describes it, Yale is every bit as idyllic and 
intellecrually free an institution as por-
trayed in the admissions catalog. Her opti-
mism is partially motivated by a desire to 
portray Yale in a good light-news of 
union trouble and New Haven crime does 
reach Taiwan-but it is fundamentally 
grounded in a very bright view of the 
school, its students, and irs faculty. Chang 
has made remarkable use of this place, and 
her list of friends is practically an all-star 
roster. She interviews professors here whose 
work interests her, and then passes on 
something from Levin's commencement 
speech, or a few of Vladimir Alexandrov's 
thoughts on Nabokov, to her Chinese read-
ers. In a country where intellectual freedom 
is not granted liberally, the Ivy League uni-
versity, with its mascots and traditions, is a 
powerful symbol of liberty and free 
thought. When we think of American cui-
cure and its popularity in other countries, 
we think more often of Madonna and Babe 
Ruth than of Jonathon Spence and Harold 
Blume. But Chang's book shows that there 
is a strong Chinese market for our ideas, 
and for the idea ofYale. 
-Blair~ Wilson 


**Snow Falling on Elms**
**Author:  (No author listed)**

Snow Falling on Elms 
According to Yale's admissions view-
book, the main task of the admissions com-
mittee is to answer cwo questions: "Who is 
likely to make the most ofYale's resources?" 
and "Who will contribute significandy to 
the Yale community?" One week ago, while 
walking around Yale, I came upon an 
astonishing scene showing just how badly 
the committee failed at this rask. 

I am walking back ro Old Campus 
after the Super Bowl, and ir is snowing. 
Not dry, annoying snow, but the good 
stuff: big. sticky flakes that fall fast and 
hard, s~ you can actually feel each one as it 
plops onto your shoulders. Snow like this 
cries for sleds, begs for snowmen, pleads to 
be balled up and thrown at people's heads. 
Snow like this leaves no excuse to be inside. 
As I see it, snow like this certainly qualifies 
as one of "Yale's resources." 

Yet Old Campus is painfully serene. 
Lights are on everywhere, but nobody 
is outside. Wonderful snow falls 
on deaf ground, ignored 
and left to suffer death-by-
sanding come dawn. Once 
in my room, I call a trust-
ed friend. "We have to go 
sledding now," I tell him. 
"It's perfect outside, better 
than it's ever been. There's 
a great hill behind the 
Divinity School." 

He doesn't even ask if I have a 
sled. (I don't. The closest I have is a card-
board sign, but I figure it will do.) Instead, 
he says, "Can't. I have chem." 

"Grear," I say. "When's it due?" 

"Tomorrow," he says. Anticipating my 
next question, he added, "In the morning." 

I try several other friends and both of 
my roommates, but everyone was hopeless-
ly indisposed: os reading, astronomy 
homework, Russian translation, Milron's 
poetry, a televised showing of &autician 
and th~ B~ast. 

Pathetic. By the standards of our own 
admissions committee, we don't deserve ro 
be here. One of the best Super Bowls in 
recent memory has just ended, and great 
snow is falling everywhere; there is no bet-
ter time to play snow foorball. And if foot-
ball isn't our thing, we can go sledding. 
have a snowball fight, build snow men or 
snow torso sculptures, like the one in rhe 
Davenport courtyard. But we aren't doing 
any of thar. What are we doing? We are 
reading. highlighting, crunching numbers. 

Never have I encountered a group so 
unwilling to contribute ro the Yale com-
munity, so unwilling to take advantage of 
its resources. 

It could have been a great night, one 
.that would live longer in memory than any 
problem set, bur nobody seemed to care. It 
was self-imposed prison, and everybody 
just wanted to be left alone until it seemed 
safe to be free. "Homework got us in here," 
the reasoning went, "so homework must be 
what can get us out." I grabbed my card-
board sign and headed for the Divinity 
School. 

What happens to us becween child-
hood and Yale? How does chem become 
more important than sledding? 

Priorities may change, but not 
to the point that working 
redox reactions seems like 
a better idea than playing 
in the snow. Perhaps we 
have grown roo mature ro 
play in the snow, too 
dignified ro have a slush 
ball shoved down the back 
of our neck. 

We don't have to go this 
way. After several runs down the Div 
School hill on my cardboard sign, a man 
and his dog arrive at the rop. The man pulls 
out a plastic garbage can lid, sets ir on the 
snow and sits down. "Look our," he yells, 
and pushes off. As he shoots past me, his 
dog racing after him, I wonder if he was 
like this 20 years ago, or if he was locked up 
in some library waiting for life to come in 
and whisper "Psst! Follow me." He reaches 
the bottom and begins playing wich rhe 
dog. and I realize that ir doesn't matter 
what he was like 20 years ago. What mat-
ters is that at some point he made a deci-
sion to be something. and became the per-
son he is now: a fortyish man who isn't 
afraid to sled on plastic garbage can lids 
and play in the snow with his dog ar mid-
night on a Sunday. 
THE NEW JouRNAL 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Andrew Cowdrey**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Nearing Phelps Gate on the way back 
from sledding, I hear Old <3ampus before I 
see it: the place isn't just occupied, it's 
crowded. People are everywhere. Major 
wars are being fought in front of Farnam 
and Vanderbilt, as ground troops tackle 
each other amid heavy artillery fire. There 
are no snow torsos, but some of the snow-
men and snowwomen have been built with 
such precision that they are easily rold 
apart. 

A boy from my English class rushes up 
and says, "See that guy over there in the red 
coat? Let's get him." 
"Who is he?" I ask. 
"I don't know. That's why we're going 
to get him," he says, and we take off. We 
pause as two girls, the ones who couldn't go 
sledding earlier because they were reading 
Milton's poetry, run past us wearing noth-
ing at all. Then we sprint toward Red Coat, 
and throw him down tO the snow. As he 
lies on the ground, slush-covered and fresh-
ly tackled by two complete strangers, Red 
Coat just laughs. 

The clock says 12:45 but the sky is 
almost bright blue, as if light is already 
creeping up around the edges, or maybe it 
just never left completely in the first place. 
One of the M ilton girls has French at 8:30, 
but she's back outside in a sweatshirt, 
standing next to me as she yells and throws 
snowballs at a friend's dark window on the 
third floor. There is no reason, I realize, to 
be angry or bitter about the moment of 
hesitation before we pour out of our rooms 
and into the snow. Some of us are trying to 
• 
change our lives, "grow up" and wear pret-
ty shoes and an overcoat; some of us 
already are grown up, and have been for 
too long. All of us, however, have a choice, 
and if we heed grown men on trash can lids 
and girls trying to read Milton during per-
fect snows, we will make the right choice 
and see that in becoming adults we don't 
have to give up what made being ten years 
old so fi.in. Maybe the admissions commit-
tee wasn't so wrong about us after all: we 
were just a little slow out of the gate. 
-Andrro~ Cowdny 
fEBRUARY II, 2000 


**Title: Type Set**
**Author: Don Tontiplaphol**
**Page number(s): 9**

NOVEMBER 19, 1999 
'1'ype Set 
Photos by Whitney Grace 
Text by Don Tontiplaphol 
Whitlock's Typewriter Shop occupies a single room. 
Shelves of antique, manual, and electric typing machines 
line every wall, and the room is saturated with a 
musty, industrial smell. 

From the entrance to the only 
window, rows of typewriters, standing on their sides and 
waiting to be sold, line a narrow path. 
An 1896 
antique machine, sent by a collector in New York, sits 
atop a tilted stand near Manson Whitlock's desk, as an 
ailing monstrous IBM Selectric goes under the knife . 

To the right of the window is a bookcase brimming with 
.anuals and collector's guides, and to the left are 
tiny holsters for tools and boxes of spare parts. 

Totally quiet and detached from the bustling traffic and 
construction along York Street, the shop seems more like 
a museum than a business. 

But Manson Whitlock is cer~ 
tainly busy enough. 
ui've got so many machines to work 
on--behind schedule!" 

It's easy to fall in love witb these beautifully 
anachronistic machines. 
Typewriters possess a refresh-
ing authenticity, a kind of austerity that computers 
altogether lack. 

Today, words are "processed," and the 
writer's actions are intermediated by monitors and key-
boards and printers. 
The first time I can see my actual 
words is after waiting for the document to spool, what-
ever that means. 

Computers, by some mystically fickle 
electronic force, gobble up essays ten minutes before 
the deadline. 
Files corrupt and printers jam. 

The typewriter, however, gives immediate gratification 
and tangible reward. 
The paper is before me, and the 
words are fixed in space right in front of my eyes. 
There is no delay between composition and the printed 
word. 

Of course, typing machines are not as neat and 
ordered as computers. 
They smudge. 
They require per-
fect typing skills and strong shoulders. 
But on the 
same coin, typewriters, in their rigid elegance, don't 
allow for the big mistakes, the errors that destroy 
whole works. 

Many times I have wished that I had writ-
ten papers with my slim and trusty Royalite 300, itself 
purchased from Whitlock's. 
There is a kind of nostal-
gia that accompanies typewriters, a return to beautiful-
ly original ways of putting words on a page. 
"I myself 
still like the old manual machines, " Whitlock agrees., 
"They're what I grew up with." Even as I purchased my 
macbine from him, Whitlock displayed some of the old 
cb*l:a that comes with typewriters. 
"Why don't you make 
1~ a secretary and fill out your address on this 
'J!'eie:ei.pt 7 .. 



**Title: The Typewriter Repairman**
**Author: [Author not specified]**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Manson Whitlock started working on typewriters in 1934 when his family owned 
Whitlock's Bookstore, a pre-war version of Barnes and Noble--it sold sandwiches and 
coffee, books and records. 

The family-run business, which took up most of a whole 
block along Broadway during the 1930s, later moved to a smaller one-story location 
on York Street. 

Whitlock then moved in 1991 to the current one-room space above 
Willoughby's at 282 York. 

But through all the moves and changes, he stays in busi-
ness with a sense of devotion. 
"I feel an obligation to help the old customers who 
can't find anyone to fix their old machines. 
I sell them for about a tenth of their 
worth." He sells and repairs these old and beautiful machines simply because he 
loves them, and he thinks others deserve to have these great typewriters, too. 
Whitlock certainly puts out a quality product . 
David Bromwich, a Yale English 
professor, bought an old Royal Standard from Whitlock's in 1969 for $50 . 
Nit has 
used dozens of ribbons since then, but has never needed a repair," Bromwich said. 


"A solid industrial object, and when you have finished using it, you have had a 
workout, but your eyes are not glazed over, your brain is not torpid, and your mor-
tal being has not been blasted one inch closer to eternity by a trillion computer 
death rays. 

All in all, a very good bargain." Whitlock, too, sees typewriters as 
filling a contemporary need. 
"For example, it's even easier to address an envelope 
than to turn on your computer. " As for those who complain about the noise which 
typewriters make, "People! We used to put up with all that without the squawking." 
For Whitlock, his shop is nothing special: "I'm not sure if I'm a curious 
antique or an antique curiosity. " He just repairs and sells typewriters. 
While I 
was talking with him, Whitlock answered a house-call from a customer. 
"That was 
some old lady who can't climb stairs anymore. 
She asked me if I could come by and 
replace an old ribbon in her machine for her--that's why I still work with these 
machines." 


**Title: The End of the MP3 Party?**
**Page number(s): 12**

T: YOU CAN READ THIS, you probably know what an MP3 is and 
.L: how co get one. These free, tradable, shareable music files are 
becoming as ubiquitous on Yale computers as Solitaire. Our ultra-
fast Ethernet connections are perfectly suited co both MP3 transmjs-
sion and distribution. But for some Yale stud!!nts, MP3S are more 
than a diversion; they're an opportunity to contribute to a commu-
nity of music fans, and a fast moneymaker as well. So what happens 
when an underground technology becomes popular and accessible, 
providing free entertainment co many and tangible rewards co a 
few? You guessed it-the party's almost over. 

Daniel Folkinshteyn, a sophomore in JE, set up his MP3 server 
this fall "just to see if I could do ic." He downloaded free software 
from the Internet that transformed his computer into a web server, 
making the MP3 files he downloaded or ripped from cos available to 
anyone on the Internet. Yale's multi-user network makes this rela-
tively easy. 

Dan led me proudly to my Compaq Presario to show the evi-
dence of his work. Disdaining the mouse, he called up 
graph.net.yak.edu with a few keystrokes. This showed Yale's incom-
ing-outgoing web traffic, broken down by residence hall and into 
daily, monthly, and yearly averages. The average load for Jonathan 
Edwards College is about 200 kilobics per second (kb/s). "But," he 
said, "you will see a nke little spike in September"- a staggering 
average load of 5,000 kb/s- for the three weeks Folkinshceyn's site 
was running at its peak. 

What made Folkinshceyn's site so popular? Volume and selec-
tion. "When I first got my computer, it had 4 gigabytes of [hard 
disk space] and I was like, what am I going to do with all this?" he 
said. "Now I have 18, and II of ic is taken up with MP3s." That put 
more than 2 ,000 songs on his site. How did he choose them? "I 
asked some people what kind of music was popular, and then I 
would downloatl that. I don't even remember the names because a 
lot of it I'd never heard of." Since arriving in this country from 
Moscow five years ago, Folkinshteyn's own taste in music has tend-
ed toward Metallica. His site also included every episode of South 
Park i.o Real Video. 

This traffic brought Folkinshteyn more than personal satisfac-
tion. He set up an advertising banner program on his site with 
instructions asking people co click on the banner in order to gee the 
free music. Banner companies pay site operators a few cents per 
click. This. earned him almost $400 in about three weeks. "I guess 
if you count the total time I cook to set it up, ic comes co less chan 
minimum wage," he said. 

But once the site was running, it would have kept earning 
money with little or no support, were it not for the long arm of 
Yale's Information Technology Services (ITS) . "One day I came 
home from classes and found that I didn't have access co the 
Internee anymore and they had blocked all packets having co do 
with my IP [Internee Protocol] address, both source and destination. 
I started composing an e-mail asking what was going on, but my e-
mail wasn't working either." (The IP address is an identification 
number for each computer on the network.) Folkinshteyn ended up 
in a meeting with the head of ITS, Daniel Updegrove, and promised 
co take down his site. That was it-no sanctions, no threacs. 

How did ITS catch Folkinshteyn, and what was he doing 
wrong? The first question is easy to answer: "We monjcor the nee-
work, not for content, but like a traffic councer on Whitney 
Avenue. Basically we look for an unusual amount of traffic," 
Updegrove said. "That's our clue that someone's been doing some-
thing nasty." No doubt, ic was the sharp spike in JE's traffic for 




**Title: A Yale Tradition for a Couple of Centuries**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 13-14**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
September that attracted the eye of one of ITs's 325 employees, 
bringing Folkinshteyn's cottage industry to an end. 

The second question is a bit more complex. In his meeting 
with Folkinshteyn, Updegrove cited violations of several ITS 
"Appropriate Use" policies, most of which were formulated with the 
general good in mind. Most concretely, any "non-Yale commercial 
use" of ITS systems, such as a banner program on a web site, is pro-
hibited. A second section of the policy applicable to Folkinshteyn's 
case is a bit more abstract: "Users must not deny or interfere with 
or attempt to deny or interfere with service to other users by means 
of'resource hogging."' A site receiving twenty-five times the normal 
amount of traffic would seem to qualify. "It's like a highway," says 
Updegrove. "If there are too many cars on it, you'll go slower. We 
try to engineer the system with a reasonable amount of capacity for 
each user, but if someone's using too much, it just slows everyone 
else down." 

Had the university wished to press the issue, the question of 
good network citizenship would have been secondary. MP3 traders 
are Internet criminals. Under the No Electronic Theft (NET) Act, 
passed in 1997, the distribution (including electronic distribution) 
of copyrighted sound recording can be criminally prosecuted even 
if no one is earning a profit. This law closed a legal loophole: before 
1997, it was impossible to prosecute MP3 traders who were giving 
away their stolen merchandise. 

The NET Act was passed with heavy lobbying from the 
Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), the victim's 
voice in the "victimless crime" of MP3 trading. The RIAA, a nonprofit 
association representing major record labels, is running a one-enti-
ty crusade against illegal MP3s. Universities, with their fast networks 
and large number of bored smart kids, are a hotbed of such activi-
ties and a major focus of RIAA's campaign. As their web site 
(www.riaa.com) states, they provide a kit for university and college 
administrators which "serve[s] as a framework for discussion of 
music and the Internet. Its purpose is to raise awareness that repro-
ducing and distributing music illegally is akin to stealing, and such 
actions have serious ethical and legal consequences." 

But education is not the extent of the RIAA's efforts to secure 
justice. Just ask sophmore Jeremy Stacy, who may bear the distinc-
tion of being ITS's first bust. He had his MP3 site, Neuromancer's 
Pad, up within weeks of arriving at Yale. "Actually, my first day here, 
I talked to one of the ITS people and asked if it would be okay to 
run my own server off of Yale's," Stacy said. "He said it would be 
okay, so I thought I had clearance." Stacy's site was set up using a 
proprietary server software called Hotline, which he downloaded 
for free off the web. He describes the program as "basically like a 
newsgroup, AOL instant messenger, and FTP all in one." 

Neuromancer's Pad was a tribute to Stacy's love of industrial 
music-he also has an industrial show on WYBC. In addition to ille-
gal ripped or downloaded cracks, he had a good number of 
unsigned bands who made their music freely available in hopes of 
gaining recognition. "Originally, I was doing it because I was mak-
ing a few hundred dollars a week," Stacy said. "But then I took the 
banner programs off, because I could get more hits that way, and I 
didn't really need the money. I liked being somebody who organized 
a place for people to come on and get to know each other." On a 
couple of occasions, small record labels like Grimworks Records 
ended up signing bands they had first heard on Stacy's site. 

Before uploading a single song, Stacy sought assurance that all 
this activity was above-board. "It's nice to have the law on your 
side," he said. He had a lawyer draft an agreement which he


**Like it or not, Yale is now the only player in New Haven Development.**
**Author: Dan Kurtz-Phelan and Nadia Sussman**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Like it or not, Yale is now 
the only player in New 
Haven Development. 
By Dan Kurtz-Phelan and Nadia Sussman 
E
VERY SuNDAY NIGHT at Branford's Chowder Pot III restaurant, 
patrons eat, mingle and dance to the Dixieland tunes of the 
Galvanized Jazz Band. Most of the couples stepping deftly across 
the dance floor have white hair. The band itself has been playing 
weekly for almost 30 years. The Chowder Pot is hardly the type of 
place where one would expect to find one of New Haven's most 
influential developers. Nevertheless, Joel Schiavone is center-stage, 
strumming a banjo and belting out an occasional ballad alongside 
the band's six other members. 

Since returning to New Haven in 1971 after earning an MBA 
from Harvard and managing a string of nightclubs, Schiavone has 
played a central, though controversial, role in the city's develop-
ment. "This guy's a Connecticut legend," one diner informs his 
companion at a table set back from the dance floor. "He's one of the 
most famous people in Connecticut." 

After decades of banjo and real estate, and even a brief foray 
into Republican politics, Schiavone is giving up on his hometown. 
"I'm trying to get out of New Haven. I'm tired of it. I've been talk-
ing about [revitalization] for thirty years ap.d made absolutely no 
._ en 
progress." Schiavone, a 1958 Yale gcad~ate and native New Havener, 
.first entered the local real estate market in 1979 and quickly came to 
dominate. the city's small downtown. He has owned several apart· 
ment and office buildings, and was central in the redevelopment of 
the Palace Theater. By 1985, Schiavone controlled Chapel Street 
between High and College and quickly transformed the dilapi<Jat-
ed strip into the commercial center it is today. 

fu New Haven's economy turned downward, however, 
Schiavone's partner in the venture, First Constitution Bank, filed 
r6 
1~'her 
Was 
for bankruptcy. In 1993, the Federal Deposit Insurance 
e 
Corporation (FDIC) inherited the bank's share of the properties 
and became the dominant partner. While Schiavone contin-
ued to manage the properties, he had lost control of their fate. 

Finally, in 1998, Yale purchased the buildings at the request of 
the city. Corning in the wake of expanded interest in commercial 
development, this incursion into the local real estate market bred 
suspicion and, in certain circles, resentment. 

Schiavone's story is not unique, but it is significant in light of 
the shifting power structure in New Haven. Yale's voice has long 
0 
been a prominent one, but in the past there we're others to bal-
n e 
ance it. Now those other voices have dropped away, leaving 
Yale's preeminent. Yale has been integral in designing and 
implementing various urban renewal and redevelopment pro-
posals over the past 50 years. What is new is the starkness of the 
contrast between Yale's tremendous wealth and investment poten-
tial and the city's relative poverty. This gives the university the 
unprecedented ability-and, according to some, responsibility-to 
shape New Haven. As Schiavone and his fellow power-players fade 
from the limelight, the burden of defining the course of the city's 
development falls on Yale, and the future of New Haven may hang 
in the balance. 
THE NEw JouRNAL 


"NEW HAVEN WAS CONSIDERED A PLACE tO which aJl sortS of people 
wanted to move back in the lsos and '6os," reminisces Rick Wolff, 
a New Haven resident and. Yale PhD, who commutes to the 
University of Massachusetts to teach economics. Over the past half-
century, New Haven has become a symbol of urban economic 
decline with the usual social problems-poverty, crime, drugs, pros-
titution, AIDs-and a test case for urban renewal efforts. Yale's rise 
to preeminence against this dismal backdrop was not sudden. It 
resulted from an extended history of other community forces losing 
their power after failed urban renewal attempts. 

By the late 1950s a post-war exodus of industry left New Haven 
one of the poorest cities in the nation. However, unlike other down-
towns in similar decline, New H aven had a unique and attractive 
resource: Yale, one of the wealthiest universities in the world. Local 
political figures latched on to this unusual marriage of urban 
decline and academic prestige and used it to secure federal grant 
money for redevelopment, touting New Haven as a laboratory for 
testing solutions to urban problems in the United States. In the 
1960s, Yale designed anti-poverty measures aimed at creating jobs 
and improving the welfare system. When those efforts yielded mea-
vigorate irs dying downtown. Although redevelopment attempts 
had brought little benefit to the city as a whole, development con-
tinued to be a lucrative business in New Haven, particularly because 
government subsidies accompanied by tax-abatementS made invest-
mentS relatively low risk. Schiavone was successfUl for several years, 
embarking on ambitious projectS to draw upscale shoppers to the 
Chapel Street area and the Ninth Square district, as well as working 
to create a theater district. He also quickly became one of New 
Haven's most eccentric and controversial public figures. "In the 
1980s, he was a lightning rod for criticism of City Hall's trickle 
down policies, tax breaks for the rich, and his eviction of poor peo-
ple despite receiving city help," says New Haven Advocate Associate 
Editor Paul Bass. Schiavone, however, portrays himself as an exam-
ple for positive and lasting urban renewal and, indeed, many of his 
downtown projects, the Chapel Street shops in particular, have con-
tinued to prosper through the 1990s. 

The effortS of Schiavone and his colleagues were not sufficient 
to stave off New Haven's persistent economic decline. With Yale 
owning a huge proportion of the· most valuable real estate in New 
Haven and paying taxes on only one percent of it, the tax burden 
ger results, decision-mak-
ers embraced grandiose, 
university-researched rede-
velopment schemes that 
would fundamentally alter 
the city's physical layout. 

Since the earliest 
on local residents· had 
become the highest in the 
state--30 to 50 percent 
higher than in the sur-
rounding suburbs. The 
exodus of business and 
""When .the recession comes to New Haven, all the Yale 
police in the world won't be able to stop these prob-
lems. All these poor people living within a stone's 
throw of the campus are going to come over the fence., 
better-off residents left 
behind a poor urban population unable to support the kind of 
Aashy commercial downtown that the city had tried to create. 

attempts to revitalize New Haven, Yale has worked closely with the 
city and its governing elite to shape the course of urban renewal. For 
irs professors and students, the city serves as a real-life testing 
ground for theories and blueprints. In addition, the university 
receives considerable federal fUnding for irs research effortS. "To 
have New Haven fUnction as a lab opportunity for dozens of 
departments that do research not only benefitS the professors and 
studentS who actually do it, but it is actually a financial benefit for 
the university-a vehicle for keeping the government money 
Bowing into Yale," says Wolff. Since corning to New Haven in 1964, 
Wolff has extensively researched New Haven's economic decline 
and Yale's relations with the city during that process. 

The end of the 1960s and the beginning of the next decade 
brought the construction of two interstate highways which con-
verged in the center of New Haven's, and the state's, most densely 
populated neighborhood, and a downtown shopping district cen-
tered around the Chapel Square Mall. Such large-scale schemes gave 
rise to a third category of central policy-shapers--<ievelopers. This 
triad of Yale, city officials and developers envisioned New Haven as 
a bustling commercial center that would bring back the shoppers 
who had Bed to the suburbs in the preceding decades. Federal 
money Bowed in, professors researched plans, and private develop-
ers tore down, built up, renovated and overhauled the city's down-
town. 

By the time Schiavone came on to the real estate scene in 1979, 
New Haven had already undergone over a decade of effortS to rein-
FEBRUARY u, 2000 
The second half of the 1980s proved deadly to local business. 
Banks failed, developers went belly-up and the city witnessed what 
Bass calls a "near total abandonment of for-profit industry and 
locally-based financial institutions." Schiavone experienced this 
process first-hand as his partner, First Constitution Bank, struggled, 
and the market tightened. "In the mid-'8os, there were tremendous 
changes in the city administration ... there was general agreement 
among local developers that the administration ostracized the local 
private sector. There is no business left in New Haven." The city's 
economic distress made it clear that the development establishment 
had failed to stave off the onslaught of urban blight and, in the end, 
had collapsed on itself 

FoR ALDERMAN AND YALE graduate Julio Gonzalez, Yale's rise to 
preeminence ultimately depended on the decline of New Haven 
ourside the university. "Yale's growth is only noticeable in the vacu-
um of other private-sector leadership." While Yale may not have 
sought the power it has now acquired, this alone does not exoner-
ate the university's past role. Wolff condemns the university-devel-
oper-city relationship as a self-sustaining system, a cabal that has 
benefited each of irs members while doing little for New Haven. 
"We have thirty-five years of a partnership between Yale University, 
the city of New Haven, the federal government and private devel-
opers. My conclusion is that they should all be arrested for what 
17 


they did because the resulcs a.re terrible," 
accuses Wolff. The developers do not 
escape his blame, but as individual busi-
nessmen, they are not his prime target. 
"This is a city whose economic develop-
ment is an unmirigated disaster. And in 
that disaster, Schiavone, and a whole bunch 
of others-he's in no way particularly to 
blame--they just cashed in." 

In Wolff's eyes, New Haven has cycled 
through the same series of unsuccessful 
redevelopment techniques with every new 
city administration for the past thirty years, 
and each time, the city's economic and 
social problems have only been exacerbat-
ed. Though the Chapel Square mall has 
been refinanced multiple times and at great 
expense, its two anchor department 
stores-Malley's and Macy's-both col-
lapsed over a decade ago and much of the 
retail space in the downtown mall lies 
vacant. The suburban shoppers who the 
city expected co flow in on 1-95 and 1-91 
never came; they constructed their own 
malls and avoided New Haven altogether. 

In addition to redevelopment strate-
gies doomed to fail, Wolff poincs to the 
university's tax exemption on nearly all of 
ics property as one of the city's central 
problems, a view shared by Paul Bass. In 
the mid-198os, Wolff estimated what Yale 
would owe in property taxes if it paid the 
same tax rate as the average family living in 
the poverty-stricken Dixwell neighbor-
hood. Basing his research on the universi-
ty's own statementS of ics property value 
published in the annual financial report, 
Wolff concluded that Yale would have 
owed the city about $80 million a year-
the university was paying $4 million at the 
time. Though the state's Payment in Lieu 
ofT axes (PILOT) program partially compen-
sates for this, it does not nearly close the 
gap. This past year, New Haven received 
under $20 million from PILOT, less than a 
quarter of Wolff's estimate. This loss of tax 
revenue gains more and more significance 
as the university gees richer and New 
Haven's economy gees steadily worse. For 
Wolff and many New Haven residents, the 
dispariry is unconscionable. "They were 
not prepared to take any of the steps and, 
above all, to make any of the necessary 
expenditures to make a serious assault on 
poverty," he charges. 

While Schiavone's criticisms of Yale 
differ markedly from Wolff's, he agrees that 
Schfavone: New Haven politicians -should 
be in Yale"s pocket. There·s nobody else: 
the increasing economic divide between 
the university and the city is deeply trou-
bling: "Yale is the only major university in 
the United States that has not had a 
significant impact on itS city, and the gap is 
widening." 

Schiavone 
describes 
an 
entrenched isolationism on the parr of the 
university. In his days as a major developer, 
Schiavone was one of the university's most 
vocal critics. "They were isolated on all 
four sides," he recalls. City Planner Karyn 
Gilvarg confirms that this "perception of 
Yale as a 500-pound sleeping gorilla" was 
widespread. Schiavone goes further, charg-
ing that Yale exhibited an overt unwilling-
ness to invest in New Haven, instead 
engaging in what Paul Bass refers co as 
"head-in-the-sand, moat capitalism." In 
the face of the university's apparent reluc-
tance to proactively address the city's eco-
nomic problems, New Haven languished, 
and blame fell on Yale. 

However, attempts by Yale co ease rela-
~ions with the city, such as the creation of 
the Office of New Haven Affairs and 
University Properties, have improved com-
munications. The inception of the Yale 
Homebuyers' Program, and more contro-
versially, the redevelopment of Broadway 
and the purchase of the Chapel Street 
shops exemplify the style of city involve-
ment the university has recently embraced. 
"Now Yale has tried to be a constructive 
player in renewal. That's neither morally 
laudable nor venal; it's a business decision 
good for ics bottom line and at times good 
for New Haven, too," says Bass. 

Yale's Office of New Haven and State 
Affairs, headed by former Baltimore devel-
oper Bruce Alexander, has no trouble. com-
piling accolades and statistics to attest t"O ics 
positive role in community development. 
The university has received national atten-
tion from President Clinton for ics literacy 
programs and 
H U D 
Secretary Henry 
Cisneros for establishing community part-
nerships. The Yale Homebuyers' Program 
has helped almost 400 local residentS pur-
chase homes. "There are few universities 
who have committed themselves as vigor-
ously as Yale to long-term, comprehensive 
institutional partnerships for community 
development," says Michael Morand, an 
Assistant Vice-President in the Office of 
New Haven Affairs. 

Yale and the city's model for New 
Haven redevelopment in recent years has 
been mostly incremental in ics approach, 
bringing in businesses one by one and peri-
odically renovating buildings. Though 
New Haven's economic distress is acute, 
Karyn Gilvarg claims that Yale and the city 
are "constantly chipping away at it." Many 
local residentS and business owners are 
satisfied with this development tactic and 
THE NEW jOURNAL 



**Title: Yale and New Haven**
**Author: Dan Kutz-Phelan and Nadia Sussman**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
welcome Yale's expansion as a commercial 
landowner. Claire Criscuolo of Claire's 
Corner Copia lauds Yale's current commu-
niry involvement, especially Yale's acquisi-
tion of the building that houses her restau-
rant. "Does Yale own a lor of properry? Yes, 
they do. And rhey should." Yale's claims 
and rhe cescimony of small-business owners 
make a srrong case for the benefits of Yale's 
growing role in fostering both public and 
privace secror growth. These fail, however, 
ro eradicate deep-seated doubt in che com-
muniry about the future ofNew Haven. 

Is this efforr roo linle, too late? The 
question unites many of the ciry's most dis-
parate elements in an answer: yes. "I think 
[Yale's] changing things now, bur they're so 
far behind, they need to put forrh a massive 
efforr jusc ro catch up. I don't see a massive 
efforr," deplores Schiavone. He pain ts a 
srarding picture of a ciry unerly ravaged: 
"There are only two people left in New 
Haven: the ciry and Yale ... They're the two 
czars who have been on a battlefield for the 
pasc fifty years and they end up in a waste-
land." The former developer peers wistful-
ly out at his hometown from his third-floor 
office on Chapel Srreer. "Everything is 
gone and they're the only two people left to 
care." Schiavone is nor alone in his 
account. "What gets me most upset is the 
gap between what is and what could be. It's 
a tragedy," lamencs Wolff. Alderman 
Gonzalez affirms this suspicion of Yale in 
the local comrnuniry. Yale officials are 
quick 
to 
dismiss 
such 
dissenters. 
"Describing New Haven as a 'wasteland' is 
truly ridiculous ... the only wasteland is 
between the ears of New Haven's detrac-
tors," says Morand. 

WHILE CITY OFFICIALS AND YALE may care 
abour New Haven, critics agree that only 
Yale has the resources to effect dramatic 
changes. The universiry's vision, if realized, 
will determine New Haven's future. Quick 
to claim knowledge of the universiry's long-
term plan for New Haven, Wolff paints 
Yale as a quiecly manipulative institution 
with the unspoken intention of making 
drastic changes. As he describes it, Yale 
wants to reduce the city's population to half 
of its current size, letting poverty drive out 
less desirable residents; in the wake of this 
urban cleansing, only Yale employees and 
wealthy commuters would remain. "It'll be 
a nice 'college town.' They would really like 
that. They don't have quite enough power 
to do it, but they're biding their time. 
Therefore they don't want too much of a 
wonderful program for poor people 
~cause they'd like them to go." 

Schiavone also sees New Haven mov-
ing in the direction of a "college town." But 
for him, this vision should not be con-
demned-it is the only option left. "Forget 
creating a commercial center with high rise 
buildings," he wrote in the early '90s, "real-
ize that we can't ever become a tourist des-
tination; and accept the happy F.ue--we are 
now and maybe always will be a college 
town." Accordingly, Schiavone condones 
what he portrays as Yale's control of local 
decision-making. "[Politicians] should be 
in Yale's pocket. There's nobody else." 

There is little idealism in Schiavone's 
words. To him, there is no room for such 
notions in a city with only one path out of 
economic 
desolation. 
Nonetheless, 
Schiavone faults Yale's past and current 
involvement with the city for being fur too 
feeble to make any substantial change. 

So what does he want? Yale to replace 
him. With no private-sector leadership left, 
the university needs to fill the vacuum. 
Yale, he maintains, ought to invest in mak-
ing New Haven attractive for its own 
benefit-to draw top students and facul-
ty-and in the process desig.n a cute and 
comfortable college town. Although such 
self-interest is cannon-fodder for many of 
Yale's critics, he claims that philanthropic 
alms-giving only exacerbates the situation. 
"IfYale tries to solve all the problems of the 
poor, and doesn't cry to solve its own prob-
lems, then everyone gets dragged down 
into the mud ... Dwight Hall is nauseat-
ing." In Schiavone's vision, capitalistic 
endeavors are the only way to resurrect 
New Haven: "Yale's self-interest is our sal-
vation." 

But even this faith· in the healing pow-
ers of self-interested investment does not 
give him confidence that a solution to New 
Haven's problems is fast emerging. Until 
the university confronts the extent of the 
economic barrenness, the destitution, and 
deep bitterness sewn into the social fabric 
of the community, it can never effectively 
rum things around. "[Yale] people don't 
understand the depth of the problem." 

Rick Wolff, in very similar language, points 
to building animosity and resentment 
toward Yale, and he looks ahead, to a time 
when the current economic boom collaps-
es. "When the recession comes to New 
Haven, all the Yale police in the world 
won't be able to stop these problems. All 
these poor people living within a stone's 
throw of the campus are going to come 
over the fence." 

THE l:lALF-CENTURY STORY of New Haven's 
decay is a deeply human one, and irs costs 
must be measured in human terms. "All of 
our kids have left town. Nobody has kids 
left in New Haven," remarks Schiavone. 
"That is the most damning comment you 
can make." 

In the eyes of many in the local com-
muniry-Schiavone, Wolff, Bass-Yale has 
emerged from this vast historical landscape 
with the future of New Haven in its hands. 
"At this point, New Haven's economy is so 
dependent on Yale ... that leaders welcome 
whatever Yale will do," says Paul Bass. Yale 
is in a position of power like never before. 
The way the university will play out irs role 
remains to be seen, but it is clear that the 
city has reached a critical juncture. 

Whatever path it chooses, Yale will 
have to reconcile with the animosity many 
residents feel toward the un iversity. 
Shaping irs Long-term vision will require 
careful examination of the complex eco-
nomic forces, including Yale's own pres-
ence, that have brought New Haven to its 
present situation. Most important, Yale 
must act with the constant awareness that 
whatever it does-or does not do--will 
affect tens of thousands of lives. 


**A Day in the Life of a Local News Reporter**
**Author: Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
~~~HEN I MET NEwsCHANNEL 8 CORRESPONDENT Erin 
r r 
1 
Cox one gray morning, she was rushing back to her 
Waterbury bureau with a copy of rhe daily R~pub/ican-Amnican in 
hand. Its name to the contrary, the ~ublican-Amnican is a non-
partisan look at local news, and it's rhe first place a good reporter 
looks for leads every morning (rhough she prefers to get ideas on 
her own). 
Today was slow. 

There was a story about state mastery rest scores. They were up 
a little, especially in Hartford. Scores, said Erin (everyone's on a 
first-name basis in the TV biz), usually make good local news. They 
get regular people worked up about schools. Regulae people ace rhe 
good guys in rhe local news world, and bad scores vindicate rhem 
in their eternal struggle against the government. That isn't quite 
how Erin put it, but it's basically her job to tell variations on this 
narrative every day. Despite rhe appeal, however, it's hard to turn 
mediocre scores into good television. "I like to tell stories," Erin 
said, and, it seems, there isn't much of a story here; just rhe scores, 
which rhe ~ublican-Ammcan already published. 

It was time ro see what else was on the ledger. An NFL superstar 
named Lincoln Kennedy was in rhe news for some reason. "He 
must have had interesting parents," I said. "Yeah," she said. "Both 
Democrats." Erin had never heard of Lincoln Kennedy, rho ugh, so 
that story was out. 

There was a controversy over rhe appointment of rhe new 
interim Waterbury Schools Superintendent. Erin had covered this 
already-in fact, she got the scoop. 

But the ~ublican-Ammcan got the first shot at covering rhe 
raise that Waterbury gave its Chief of Finance. "Interesting," Erin 
said. "But it's not only not video; it's a one-town story." Later, she 
continued, "Nor all stories are interesting to everyone. Some stories 
are informative--you know, about taXes. But sometimes they're 
entertaining, too--maybe a new school gym opening, and that's 
fun." If only a new school gym were opening today. 

Then Erin started: "Oh, look, there's a great rhing here about 
the pink things you can buy for Valentine's Day. Cute!" Erin is an 
uncommonly nice woman of about 33 who acts more girlish than 
she probably is. There was a Beanie Baby on her computer, 
slouched next to a Smwf. She has pictures of kids all over the office. 
"Is that your daughter?" I asked, pointing to one. "No," she said, a 
little sadly. "All these pictures are nieces and nephews." Erin's nor 
married and she doesn't have kids-"no one would care if I .died in 
a helicopter crash," she said-but I son of hoped someone cared 
enough to get her somerhing pink. 

Okay, okay, we weren't gerting anywhere. Were there any good 
stories? The New Haven bureau, Erin said, was going to do a fol-
low-up on the crane rhat had collapsed in Milford the day before. 
Two people had died. One guy was pinned for eight hours, his legs 
crushed under the extraordinary weight of the crane. This was a 
great story, because Chopper-8 had gotten it all on camera-in fact, 
they'd scunled pact of Erin's piece to shoot the last scenes. "For 
chose people that tried to rescue him, it must have been moment by 
moment. It was like rhat whole Jessica-in-the-well thing over 
again." Jessica-in-the-well is the Holy Grail of TV news ... 1 mean, it 
was awful ... but it was great TV." 

Today clearly wasn't going to be a day for great TV. "It doesn't 
look like a weather-story day," she said, drawing the drapes. The 
snow was too light. Erin had to think of something, though, before 
the daily 9:30AM conference call when the Waterbury bureau swaps 
ideas with the New Haven bureau. I should probably now reveal the 
little-known but easily discoverable fact rhat Erin herself is the 
Waterbury bureau. No other reporters, no secretary. Just Erin and 
her cameraman, AI Mack-they even do rheir own cleaning. The 
office, in a Marriott, is pretty small: just big enough for some edit-
ing equipment, a computer, a fax machine, and a TV with CNN. Erin 
had rurned the TV on when she first got in, but the sound was down 
and I don't think she paid much artention. It was mostly there for 
the ambiance. 
THE NEw JouRNAL 


Al wasn't here yet. He was out £ilming the weather, as he often 
does on snowy mornings. But Al apparently likes co remain behind 
the camera. Erin cold me he didn't wane me co ask him any ques-
tions or quote him. 

Ten AM: time for the 9:30 conference calL The New Haven 
folks (TV news people say "folks" a lot) didn't have a lot of good 
ideas. Someone was pushing. a piece on che city of Seymour, which, 
deep in debe, had recently assessed all its homeowners an extra 
property tax. "The city's a mess," Erin said. "If I were a homeown-
er, I'd go nuts." Erin doesn't seem co like taxes coo much, but coday 
she didn't dislike them enough co do a story on them. She had 
another idea: a smalJ town in northwestern Connecticut called 
Winsted has eight miles of dirty pipes, and some of the cap water is 
discolored. Things really started co heat up this month when a few 
residents refused co pay their property taxes until the city deans the 
water. "I love a yellow-water story," the producer in New Haven 
said. 

It was decided. Erin starred making phone calls. 

Al got back around 10:30. He was a big teutonic guy with a 
strong jaw, wearing a blue Communication Workers of America 
jacket. We shook hands without saying much, and he sac down co 
edit the weather footage. Today was special because Al had shoes of 
his dalmatian, Charlie, romping through the snow. Even more spe-
cial: we learned that the anchor was going co mention Charlie by 
name. Al swore softly as he worked. 

Meanwhile, Erin got ready ro go. She showed me her heavy-
duty winter-wear, which was boots with rights and thick socks 
underneath her navy-blue pantsuit. "Always be prepared. You 
know," she said, "people think I go around with a can of hairspray 
and rube of lipstick." She thought for a second: "And, I do-but I 
also have co bring warm clothes." Erin admitted that part of her job 
is looking good, which is especially hard on days like today, when 
she's feeling sick. Despite the hardship, she shellacked make-up on 
her face like a real pro. In the end, she looked sort of like a dressed-
FEBRUARY II, 2000 
for-success porcelain doH. This is how all TV reporrers-men and 
women-look in person. 

Before we left, I asked Erin if it was ever difficult for her co 
remain objective about cases like this. "If I cold you I didn't have 
opinions, I'd be lying. But part of the fun is you teH a story-if you 
already know how it's going to end, it's no fun." 

Finally, it was time to cake the Stormteam-8 Explorer to 
Winsted. Erin's original idea was co knock on doors at random and 
ask about the water. But she happened co gee lucky and catch 
Charlene St. Sauveur on the phone before we arrived. Charlene was 
at home with her husband, Jim (who, ironically, works for a water-
filter company) and her 22-month-old son, Sean Patrick. Erin was 
psyched because, as it turned out, Sean Patrick was her brother's 
name. She kept cooing about how great the baby was: "God bless 
him," she would say, "he's really being very good." Erin is very 
friendly. In point of face, the baby was whiny, imperious, and prob-
ably too old to have a pacifier. But I think Erin honestly didn't har-
bor any of these thoughts, or if she did, she didn't welcome them 
the way I did. Instead, she seemed taken with Charlene's domestic 
bliss. She and Charlene connected right away-Jim talked to Al for 
a little while, but it soon became clear Jim wasn't going to be part 
of the story. He just didn't seem co care as deeply as Charlene. 

The house was cluctered with all kinds of tchocchkes: a two-
foot princess doll encased in glass, a set of 12 Pillsbury Doughboy 
figurines, one for each month, "Family Circus" cartoons pasted to 
the refrigerator, Barney on the TV {with no one watching). To make 
matters worse, Erin, Al, and I had cracked in a good deal of dirty 
snow that Charlene, in her socks, tried surreptitiously co wipe up 
from time co time. 

Now it was time for Erin to find out the facts. Charlene said 
the water in the pipes was discolored. The color was the main prob-
lem with it, actually, because the lab analysis bad come back nega-
tive for bacteria and harmful minerals. In fact, the city claimed the 
water was safe to drink. Charlene, however, wondered if there was


**Title: The Winsted Water Story**
**Author: Liz Blecher**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
at the city. And not a moment too soon. 

When we left Chatlene's place, it was time 
to pay a visit to those government thugs. 
The town manager, Karen Johnson, 
wasn't available, so Erin wouldn't be able to 
interview her. That was bad, because it 
wouldn't be possible to find out what 
would happen if Charlene and Leesa didn't 
pay their taxes. Plus, the story looked a little
lopsided, showing only the protestors' 
point of view. 

So we stopped by the office of the 
Winsted Director of Public Works. In a 
moment of gonzo, Erin had Al bring the 
camera and asked to see the Director, Pat 
Hague, who turned out to be in. Pat Hague 
was a middle-aged guy dressed in jeans and 
a work shirt and smoking a cigarette. His 
everyday-Joe countenance made him a 
sympathetic character in person, but it didn't
seem to come through in front of the 
camera. He was obviously a little nervous-
especially after the job Fox61 had 
done on his office, as he told us. Unlike 
Charlene and Leesa, however, he didn't 
seem to have learned anything from this 
experience, because what he said was really 
stupid: "This water is safe to drink-it's 
discolored ... I wouldn't drink it neither." In 
retrospect, I wondered if the fact that the 
city gives away bottled drinking water 
made up for Pat's view. But at the time, 
Erin, Al, and I were all thinking, gotcha! 
Erin said gleefully, "People say the media 
distorts, but he really said that." And later, 
"I didn't even have to ask a leading question." 
But what most scandalized Erin was 
Pat's smoking in a public building, which, 
she whispered to Al, "is a federal offense." 

Now it was back to the office to edit. 
Al had a lot of stuff on tape, and it had to 
be boiled down to one minute and thirty 
seconds of news-like turning sap into 
maple syrup. Erin wrote the copy quickly 
and effortlessly, while Al cut and pasted the 
video, at turns swearing and apologizing 
for swearing. 

The editing process was almost as surreal
as the filming process. Erin narrated 
the action in her news-voice. "The water 
from Charlene St. Sauveur's faucet is dirty," 
she said, as Charlene drew a bath of relatively
clear water. Then a shot of the water 
bottle Linda had brought over, as Charlene 
spoke: "It has a yellow tint to it, a dark 
brown tint to it." No one mentioned that 
the water we were looking at was not from 
Charlene's faucet. Later, Charlene's voice 
said, "We're not going to pay anything 
until they give us clean, healthy water," as 
they cut back to the bath. But since the 
bath was full of clear water, it didn't make 
much sense. The problem is that water 
could be poisonous or it could be safe and 
you can't tell the difference just by looking. 
You can only tell by testing it. On TV, 
though, the boring old test gets short shrift 
compared to the great visuals of (the neighbors')
yellow water. 

More egregiously, Charlene and Leesa 
admitted they didn't know any other 
Winsted residents who weren't paying their 
taxes. Leesa said she didn't understand why 
more people weren't protesting like her-
but that bite didn't make it onto the show. 
Since Charlene and Leesa were the only 
two folks Erin talked to, on TV their vigi-
lantism looked like a popular revolt. When 
Erin said, "Folks were more than insulted 
when they got their water bills," she meant 
the two of them, not the town generally. 
But you couldn't have known that from 
watching the show. Then, Erin narrated, 
"Clean water may not come right around 
the corner. City officials say the problem is 
probably the old pipes." That's true. But 
Erin didn't mention the prohibitively high 
cost of fixing the problem, especially in 
light of the fact that the water tested nega-
tive for bacteria and minerals. Instead, the 
city looked like a mom that didn't care 
about her kids enough to give them clean 
water, while Charlene and Leesa looked 
like moms who did. 

After the story ran, Keith, the anchor, 
cut to Erin live in the Waterbury studio. 
She said, "We tried to find out what would 
happen to Charlene and Leesa if they didn't
pay their water bills, but the town man-
ager did not return our repeated phone 
calls." In the real world, the folks at the 
Winsted town manager's office could have 
been too busy with work to make the five 
o'clock news. But through the myopic eye 
of the camera, their absence seemed sinister. 
On TV, it seems, if you don't show up, 
you lose. 


**Title: Goldman Sachs and the Non-Profit Recruiting Game**
**Author: John Swansburg**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

OLDMAN SACHS HAS 
FOURTEEN BusiNESs PRINCIPLES. 
Principle Number 2 reads, "Our assets are our people, capital, 
reputation." At Goldman Sachs people clearly come first. 
Recruiting, therefore, has its own principle, Principle Number 6: 
"We make an unusual effort to identify and recruit the very best 
person for every job. Although our activities are measured in bil-
lions of dollars, we select our people one by one." 

At universities across the country, this effort takes the form of 
elaborate recruiting campaigns. Investment banking firms like 
Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley Dean Winer take out full-
page ads in school newspapers; they take prospective employees out
to dinner. Of course, if your company's activities 
are measured in billions of dollars, it will attract 
attention with or without an unusual effort. 

While some job-seeking, soon-to-be college grads 
may be attracted to Goldman Sachs's assertion 
that "integrity and honesty are at the heart of our 
business" (Principle 14), most are more likely 
interested in the salaries and the signing bonuses. 

How do non-profit 
organizations. which 
have neither the 
money to attract 
attention nor the 
allure of big salaries. 
go about recruiting? 
by John Swansburg 
• 
reminding his audience that not all non-profit work is hands-on 
community service. "Like corporations," he said, "we have bud-
gets." In the world of budgets, however, size matters, and he quick-
ly moved from compare to contrast, admiring, "We can't keep you 
because we can pay you a lot of money." What non-profit work can 
offer you, said Colavito, are the intangible rewards of working for 
change. But, he stressed, that work can be just as mundane as 
crunching numbers for ING Bearings-and it doesn't pay nearly as 
well. Was this the non-profit sales pitch? 

The comparisons to the corporate world continued. 
Throughout his speech he was wary of setting up the typical oppo-
sition between analyst and activist. He was eager, for 
instance, to discard the stereotype of the jolly non-
profit worker: "Our work affects people's lives. But 
that doesn't mean everyone has a good personality. 
Expect to meet all sorts of folks today-not everyone 
is super-nice." 

But how do non-profit organizations, which 
have neither the money to attract attention nor 
the allure of big salaries, go about recruiting? The 
Public Interest Career Fair seemed like a good 
place to find an answer. For the past two years the fair has been 
housed in Dwight Hall, with most of the over 30 organizations 
crammed into the hall's chapel. By noon, organizations with names 
like Emergency Shelter Management Services and the Young Adult 
Institute were preparing to preach the grass-roots gospel from the 
chapel's apse; Urban Resources Initiative and E, the Environmental 
Magazine, were setting up shop in the nave. 

The festivities began a little after one o'clock with a brief intro-
ductory speech, entitled "Job Search Tips," given by Yale grad Peter 
Colavito. Colavito is currently the Political Director for the 
Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now 
(ACORN). In 1998, 17 percent of Yale's graduating students pursued 
jobs in business and finance. But Colavito had the ear of over a 
hundred Yale students. Here was a chance to make the case for non-
profit over profit, to champion a career in public service over a 
career in self-service. 

Colavito, however, took quite a different tack. He opened his 
talk by comparing non-profit organizations to corporations, 
Colavito's curt tone seemed to stand as proof of 
his closing comment. The students who had assembled to hear his opening remarks appeared a bit bewildered. For one, the majority of the students present 
looked as if they had dressed to farm, nor to kill. The 
sartorial sensibilities of the recruiters were far more 
diverse. As the fair opened in earnest and the recruiters took their 
places behind their booths, the connection Colavito had drawn 
between corporations and non-profits was visibly apparent in the 
recruiters' clothing. Several suits stood interspersed between 
sweaters and scarves. Despite his rhetoric, Colavito himself looked 
the activist part, his wiry frame outfitted in an evergreen flannel 
shirt, jeans and sneakers, his dark brown eyes staring out of a dark 
brown, well-trimmed beard. The nearby Teach For America rep, on 
the other hand, looked like he had just stepped out of the Merrill 
Lynch web site. 

If the students were at first flustered by Colavito's words, they 
quickly adapted. Within minutes of the fair's opening, nearly every 
recruiter had a prospective employee to entertain. A number of 
brave souls moved directly to the ACORN booth to gather information. One student remarked that he enjoyed Colavito's speech. "I 
hope I didn't scare you away," retorted Colavito, apparently aware 
of the uninviting timbre of his words. "What is a typical day like for 
an ACORN organizer?" another student asked. "Very long," he 


replied, and launched into a description of 
the rigorous application process. He 
defined the ideal ACORN organizer as someone who fixes the copy machine when it 
breaks, not someone who calls maintenance for more toner. "We don't want any 
prima donnas," he declared. Were it not for 
his outfit, Colavito could have been a 
Smith Barney rep, on the verge of asking an 
interviewee how much a 747 weighs. 

But not everyone was as gruff as 
Colavito. Throughout the over-three-hour 
event, one of the most popular booths 
belonged to Green Corps, an agency that 
"strives to solve threats facing the planet." 
Representing Green Corps was Bernadette 
Del Chiaro, a young, energetic, super-nice 
woman. She differed in demeanor from 
Colavito, but she echoed his corporate 
comparisons. She spoke of the long hours 
non-profit work demands, comparing it to 
the long hours of investment bankers. Again the difference was the compensation: applicants 
to the Green Corps compete for a shot at a 
slim $17,500 a year. Del Chiaro herself was 
recruiting all day in Dwight Hall pro bono. 
But Green Corps' net gain was considerable: in under an hour Del Chiaro had 
acquired the names and addresses of over 
20 interested students. Green Corps only 
hires 25 employees annually. Four hundred 
apply. Competition is even stiffer for other 
programs. The Peace Corps representative 
(suit) amiably distributed applications and 
free highlighters to droves of students all 
afternoon, but with a practiced frown she 
informed seniors that if they wanted to join 
the Peace Corps next September they 
should have started applying this past 
September, the same month Goldman 
Sachs first came to New Haven. 

So what is the allure? Public interest 
work is rewarding-for romantics and real-
ists alike. A program like Teach for America 
appeals to students who want to save the 
world, offering the opportunity to work in 
some of the toughest schools in the country, to work toward progress one classroom 
at a time. The Connecticut Department of 
Corrections, on the other hand, appeals 
more to the practical mind. Many of the 
volunteers at Connecticut Corrections are 
law students trying to gain valuable experience working with juvenile offenders. 

There was an organization for every cause 
at the fair. Interested students could find 
out how to help fight homelessness, hunger 
and everything in between. A tangible 
reward gained working behind a desk is 
faceless-unless you count Ben Franklin's 
countenance. An intangible one, it seemed, 
may have any number of faces. 

The Public Interest Career Fair pulled 
in over 130 students this year. It seems that 
despite the recent barrage of tantalizing 
success stories of IPOs on NASDAQ, there are 
still plenty of young people who would 
prefer a career fighting DDT through 
ACORN. Non-profits may not be able to 
foot the bill for full-page ads, but due to 
the interest in their causes, they can afford 
to tell it like it is, to talk about long hours 
and low wages. Is this an unusual way to 
recruit? Peter Colavito would say it is just a 
cost-effective way to identify and recruit 
the very best person for every job. 


AUTHENTIC THAI CUISINE 
TAKE OUT MENU 
1170 CHAPEL STREET 
NEW HAVEN. CT 06511 
(across from COLONY INN, Downtown) 
OPEN EVERYDAY 
SUN· THURS: 11:30AM·10:00PM 
FRJ & SAT: 11:30AM • 10:30PM 
PHONE: (203) 562·0322 
" Best Thai Restaurant 1998" 
-New Haven Advocate



**Title: Strings Attached**
**Author: Alan Schoenfeld**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Strings Attached 
by Alan Schoenfeld 
Jasper Johns: New Paintings and Works on P...., 
Yale University Art Gallery 
I 
N A PHOTOGRAPH from the November 18, 
1996, issue of Th~ N~w York Tim~s, a 
young. war-worn Rwandan woman sits 
languidly in a chair as she receives a trans-
fusion of her mother's blood. Her mother 
stands beside her, holding a bag of saline 
solution connected to a needle in her 
daughter's arm. A tube hangs loosely from 
the bag, drooping down towards the 
ground and then sweeping up to the girl's 
arm, forming a curve which mathemati-
cians call a catenary (think Nike swoosh). 
The women and the catenary stand in con-
trast to the inchoate background of the 
decrepit third-world hospital. 

We would like to forget such an 
image: its perverse beauty jostles us out of 
our perceived security and reminds us of 
the fragility of human life. This photo-
graph, ranered and yellowing, hangs on the 
wall of Jasper Johns's studio and inspired 
the 13 paintings and works on paper now 
on exhibit at the Yale University Art 
Gallery. The works traverse difficult the-
matic terrain, exploring the dualities of 
childhood and adulthood, life and death, 
tragedy and comedy. The catenary curve 
emerge~ as the hero of the exhibit, provid-
ing the connection necessary to respond to 
the modern crises of misperception and 
distancing that pervade the exhibit. 

The exhibit continues Johns's artistic 
trajectory. His earliest work was inhabited 
by familiar public images-Bags and tar-
gets, namely-and was characterized by an 
almost complete lack of emotions. While 
he challenged his viewers' perceptions and 
visual and cerebral acuity, Johns offered lit-
tle of himself But he has become increas-
ingly present in his work, investing it with 
more emotional and personal references. 
This exhibition, which dramatically con-
fronts questions of utmost personal impor-
tance as well as those of critical artistic 
value, joins these two facets of his artistry. 

Johns's abstract imagery can be alien-
ating and daunting to all but the most sea-
soned modern art observers. I have never 
been one for senseless hues and splattered 
cans of paint, so I approached this exhibit 
with a healthy amount of skepticism. 
Could srrings and canvases doused indis-
criminately with paint mean anything to 
me? Could they affect me in the same way 
a Courbet portrait could? Without the 
imagery of the photograph that I carried 
with me throughout my five visits to the 
exhibit, probably not. But bearing that in 
mind-and we must, since Johns himself 
did-the exhibit rruly is a beautiful, elo-
quent commentary, its simple and austere 
beauty akin to a Neruda poem. One must 
delve into the spaces of the paintings and 
seek connections between their disparate 
elements in order to garner some meaning. 

What is perhaps most striking about 
the works is the unity of their imagery. A 
white suing hanging from one side of the 
frame to the other-a catenary-and the 
dense, murky background in various shades 
of gray persist throughout the series, as do 
variations on a small number of other 
images: the Big Dipper, the Milky Way, 
carved writings, and patterns from harle--
quin costumes. Each presents its own para-
dox or problem of perception which the 
viewer is forced to reconcile. 

Consider, for example, Johns's use of 
the Milky Way and the Big Dipper. 
Though the celestial images are present in 
several of the works, each rendering is dif-
ferent. Johns's depictions of the Milky Way 
range from a Seurat-like mass of dots in the 
formation of the galaxy to a much more 
defined structure resembling a blender 
blade. Similarly, the renderings of the con-
stellation range from thin, painted white 
lines connected to yellow dot stars, ro 
deeply incised lines separated by a small 
space from the carved yellow docs. Such a 
variety conuibutes to the spectrum of dis-
tance and connection that pervades the 
exhibit. It seems that Johns also uses this 
opportunity to expound upon the uses and 
limitations of human perception. The 
appearance of the galaxy is a natural phe-
nomenon made possible by gravity, where-
as the constellation is a human construe· 
tion, an example of humans inventing 
sense and connection where nature has 
provided none. While the galaxy reminds 
humans how small and inconsequential ·we 
are in the vast expanse of nature, the con· 
stellacion provides us with some security. 
we can understand and harness the power 
of nature for our own psychic benefit. But 
this security is problematic: one depiction 
of the constellation shows rwo different 
placements of the·scars in the night sky. 
separated by one hour's celestial move-
ment. Understand the phenomenon, we 
may; control it, we cannot. 

Another problematic image is the har-
lequin, who in his august b:iffoonery repre-
sents the perfect marriage of comedy and 
tragedy. Though he provides entertainment 
and enjoyment, he also represents the 
reduction of all human desires and emo-
tions from the sublime to the ridiculous. 
We laugh at him because we see ourselves 
in him. Artists ranging from Toulouse-
Lautrec to Picasso and, now, to Johns, have 
used the harlequin for his complex psycho-
logical associations and for the inevitable 
connection to childhood that his presence 
precipitates. Though Johns represents the 
harlequins meconymically in this series of 
works, using only the argyle pattern of 
their costumes, such familiar imagery is 
sufficient co conjure the tragicomic cha.rac-
ter of the harlequin and the simultaneous 
lightness and gravity he represents. The 
harlequin, his apparent lightness, and 
youth are all bound up in the pattern of 
diamonds that lines the right side of sever-
al of the paintings. In "Bridge," the center-
piece of the exhibit, this section of the 
frame fades quickly into a- dark gray back-
ground which takes up the rest of the 
painting: only the catenary bridges the 
great chasm of the tableau and, perhaps, 
the gap between the lightness and child-
hood that the harlequin represents, and 
their murky opposites. As in all the works, 
the catenary on this frame immediately 
recalls the catenary in the photograph. The 
implicit commentary on the fragility of the 
connection between youth and the great 
expanse beyond it is truly powerful. 

While the harlequin represents figura-
tively the opposition between lightness and 
gravity, the catenary physically embodies 
these principles. Various fasteners are fixed 
to either side of the frame, with the fasten-
er on the right side much higher than the 
one on the left. A thick white string hangs 
between the two fasteners, swooping down 
from right to left until it reaches a nadir 
and swoops up again towards the fastener 
on the left, mimicking the shape of the rv 
tube shared by the two Rwandan women in 
the photograph. In much the same way 
that the harlequin must concede some of 
his emotional autonomy to the forces of 
tragedy and despair, gravity takes over the 
catenary and determines the shape of its 
trajectory. Though Johns determines where 
the fasteners lie on the frame and how long 
the string is, gravity creates the catenary. 
The presence of the catenary demands a 
meditation on the differences between 
nature and human powers of creation. 

Both .the catenary and the constellation 
represent the happy marriage of nature and 
creativity, requiring the powers of both for 
their existence and comprehensibility. 
Johns challenges the viewer to question 
what is created and what is natural, and 
whether or not the difference matters. 

I don't think Johns himself knows the 
answer to that question. The exhibit is 
playful and challenging, but fundamentally 
frustrating. It is easy co look at this exhibit 
and see nothing but variations on a collec-
tion of abstract forms and hues of gray. It 
takes a great deal of investigation and pro-
cessing to make any sense of the works, and 
after five viewings I'm not sure that I am 
any further along than I was at the first. 
Have I fallen into the trap of art criticism 
and found meaning where there is none? 
Johns makes such a mistake as difficult as 
possible to commit. Even the seemingly 
empty spaces of the canvas are rife with 
detail and vibrancy: the gray backgrounds, 
while simple and uniform from afar, are in 
fact complex mixes of various shades and 
textures. So I have faith in Johns and in his 
hero, the catenary, to rescue me from my 
tentativeness. The catenary is truly heroic 
in its elegance and simplicity. It makes 
sense of the world it traverses, connecting 
disparate elements-tempestuous celestial 
bodies, images of childhood-along an axis 
that is consistent and stable. The difficul-
ties of this collection are nothing in com-
parison to the statement it makes regarding 
the nature and importance of connection, 
in the word's most broadly conceived 
meaning. Plod through the dense imagery, 
the inscrutability of this exhibit, and con-
nect. 


**Title: Mississippi Burning**
**Author: Daniel Brook**
**Page number(s): 30**

Mississippi Burning 
How a Herald Op-ed Sparked a 
Flame-"War Between the States 
by Daniel Brook 
BACK IN THE 1960s, COLLEGE-AGED 'YANKEES had to pile into sta-
tion-wagons and drive South to effect social change. It was tough 
work. Civil-rights workers were routinely harassed and sometimes 
even killed. Luckily for today's Ivy League liberals, modern Internet 
technology has made all that messy person-to-person contact a 
thing of the past. Thanks to U-Wire, a Chicago-based internet 
company that collects and distributes articles from over 200 sub-
scribing student periodicals, long-distance agitation has never been 
easier. Just publish a few well-worded anacks in your college paper 
and let U-Wire do the rest. 

In his October 29 "Whiskey and Rye" column in the Yak 
Hn-ald, junior John Schochet argued that the South "acts like a 
spoiled child" by preserving "treasonous" symbols of the 
Confederacy. In addition, Schochet criticized the region for 
"revel[ing] in its racist, violent, primitive, and intolerant past." Like 
any decent student column, it made good points but often rode that 
fine line between hyperbole and insanity, saying things like, 
"Virginia and Alabama owe humanity an apology [for honoring 
Robert E. Lee and 'Stonewall' Jackson]." The column provoked a 
number of leners to the editor, and to Schocher himself. most of 
which rode that same line. One e-mail consisted of the words "Eat 
my load" wrinen over and over and was meant, according to the 
author, to be sung "to the rune of'Ode to Joy."' 

But the real fun started a week later. 

Unbeknownst to Scbochet, the newspaper editors at 
the University of Southern Mississippi picked up his 
column from U-Wire. Schacher's op-ed ran in the 
November 4 issue of usM's The Studmt Printz, 
attracting a second wave of leners. One letter was 
selected by the Printz to run in its November 9 ~ 
issue. "I recall a certain President that was from the ._..-
: 
state of Massachusetts that almost put this country 
· 
in another economic depression," the lener said. "In 
contrast, our friend from Arkansas has 
not only brought prosperity and peace, 
but he has done it with southern style 
and pinash [sic] that northerners only 
George Bush famously claimed three home states but Massachusetts 
wasn't one of them. And as for Clinton, I think we'd all be much 
happier if he kept his southern "pinash" in his pants. 

But if students were having this much trouble simply keeping 
the facts straight and the spelling correct, the older generation was 
completely at sea with the newfangled U-Wire technology. One 
Printz.. reading USM alum pegged Schochet for a srudent at Southern 
Mississippi rather than a vicious outside agitator (a Jew from the 
Bay Area, no less). "I am sincerely disappointed to find that a once 
fine Southern institution of higher learning has become a Politically 
Correct 'South Basher,"' the letter fumed. "At one time, I believed 
that Southern Miss was the finest university in the South and had 
encouraged my child to attend classes at your school. However, 
after seeing the tripe you have seen fit to publish, I have decided 
that my child will not even bother to apply there." 

Ultimately, the very fundamentals of human communication 
seemed to be breaking down on the shoulder of the information 
superhighway. Schochet especially enjoyed an e-mail from "a guy 
who talked about how he was a veteran and how obviously I had 
never served in the military and wasn't a real American like him. He 
addressed the column 'Dear Mr. Schocher' but then started address-
read about." Sadly, the last president 
r rv7f7('Ci;>('Ci;>·~~~~f 
from Massachusetts was Kennedy; 
LMJl.J~~ = 
let's face it, if we're not going to rise 
above trading insults, who needs 
an electronic intermediary like e-
mail? Telling someone to "Eat my 
load" in person beats telling them 
via e-mail. 



**Title: Jon Katz Book Signing**
**Author: The Yale Bookstore**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Tuesday, February 22nd at 4:30pm 
Jon 
Katz 
Jon Katz is the author of eight books, including Running to the Mountain and 
Virtuous Reality, but is best known for his writings on media and technology. 
He has written for Wired, GQ, and 1be New lVrk Times and was twice 
nominated for the National Magazine Award for his articles in Rolling Stone. 
Katz also writes for Slashdot.org, Hotwired, and Free!, the Freedom Forum's 
website. His new book, Geeks: How Two Lost Boys Rode the Internet out of 
Idaho, is a remarkable true story of how technology can change lives. 
Geeks takes us into an increasingly powerful sub-culture with its own 
language, traditions and taboos, to a place where jesse Dailey and Eric 
1\vilegar altered their fates. In a story full of hope, we see how these two 
working<lass, rural teenagers with little support or resources used the Net 
to pull themselves up the economic ladder to a better job and a better place. 
As part of the Author Series at The Yale Bookstore, jon Katz will discuss and 
sign Geeks on Tuesday, February 22nd at~:30pm. All events are free and 
open to the public. 
THE YALE 
BOOKSTORE 
A 
8-\R:-;E~&:-;OHI~ l llllll,l ~lllR~ 
77 Broadway at York Square • New Haven • 203.777.8440 • toll free 1.888.730.YALE 
http:/ Jyale.bkstore.com • Order by e-mail at: theyalebookstore@snet.net 


**Title: The "Original" Copy Center**
**Author: The "Original" Copy Center**
**Page number(s): 32**

THE "ORIGINAL" COPY CENTE~ 
Copying 
Binding 
Printing 
Color Copying 
I arge Documents 
large Format Color 
laminating 
Mounting 
Faxing 
Passport Photos 
Resumes 
Rubber Stamps 
Business Cards 
262 Elm Street, New Haven 
(203) 562-9723 
~.tycocop~conn 
FAX: (203) 562-6256 
Phone: 1-888-TYCO COPY 
Email: tycocopy@snet.net

