Publication date: January 31, 1986
Volume: 18
Issue number: 4

**MASTHEAD:**
- Publisher: Tony Reese
- Editor-in-Chief: Joyce Banerjee
- Business Manager: Lauren Rabin
- Executive Editor: Rich Blow
- Managing Editor: Anne Applebaum
- Designer: Maria Hong
- Production Manager: Margie Smith
- Photography Editor: Mark Fedors
- Associate Business Managers: Rob Lindeman, Barrie Seidenberg
- Associate Editors: Jay Carney, Tamar Lehrich, Melissa Turner, Dan Waterman
- Associate Production Manager: Margaret Bauer
- Associate Photography Editor: Carter Brooks
- Circulation Manager: Beth Cohen
- Staff: Anne Hawke, Katie Hazelwood, David Hoffman, Pearl Hu, Meredith Hyde, Paul Kihn, Mike Sonnenblick, Peter Lefkowitz, Hank Mansbach, Patrick Santana, Lori Sherman, Pam Thompson, Stu Weinzimer, Peter Zusi
- Members and Directors: Edwald B. Bennett III, Henry C. Chauncey, Jr., Peter B. Cooper, Andy Court, Brooks Kelley, Michelle Press, Fred Strebeigh, Thomas Strong
- Trustees: Anson M. Beard, Jr., Edwald B. Bennett, Jr., Blaire Bennett, Gerald Bruck, Jonathan M. Clark, Louise F. Cooper, James W. Cooper, Peter B. Cooper, Jerry and Rae Court, David Freeman, Geoffry Fried, Sherwin Goldman, John Hersey, Brooks Kelley, Roger Kirwood, Andrew J. Kuzneski, Jr., Lewis E. Lehrman, E. Nobles Lowe, Peter Neill, Fairfax C. Randall, Nicholas X. Rizopoulos, Arleen and Arthur Sager, Dick and Debbie Sears, Richard Shields, Thomas Strong, Elizabeth Tate, Alex and Betsy Torello, Allen and Sarah Wardwell, Peter Yeager, Daniel Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- Letters - 
- NewsJournal - 
- Orders of the Court - Jennifer Sachs
- Out of Touch - James Bennet
- Defining the Crime - Martha Brant
- Paradise Interpreted - David Carpenter


**Title: Orders of the Court**
**Author: Jennifer Sachs**
**Page number(s): 8**

On an average day, 100 to 200 people appear at the New Haven Courthouse. 
From these everyday workings of justice arise questions about the efficacy and 
fairness of the entire system.


**Title: Out of Touch**
**Author: James Bennet**
**Page number(s): 16**

Students are convinced that the staff of the University Health Services (UHS) is 
at best uncaring and at worst incompetent, but actual "horror stories" of 
mistreatment are few.  Instead, the Health Services' systemic flaws and students' 
misperceptions create the feeling of dissatisfaction, which is perpetuated by a 
startling lack of communication between undergraduates and UHS.


**Title: Defining the Crime**
**Author: Martha Brant**
**Page number(s): 22**

Last November Yale-New Haven Hospital nurse Gladys Faulk was sentenced to 
two and a half years imprisonment for killing her abusive boyfriend. Could 
Faulk's conviction illustrate society's stereotyping of battered women as defenseless 
and its inability to accept those who fight back?


**Title: Paradise Interpreted**
**Author: David Carpenter**
**Page number(s): 30**

Using Milton's own words, former Yale English Professor R. A. Shoof reshapes 
the structure of contemporary literary criticism in his new book, Milton, Poet of 
Duality, and explores the synthesis of Christian rhetoric and the modern literary 
perspective.



**Letters**
**Author: Various**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Letters
Unfinished Stories
To the Editor:
The most surprising thing about james
Ledbetter's piece, "AlA: Should They
Patrol the Classrooms?" is that The
New journal published it without even
making the effort to substantiate his
chilling "revelations."

A few points in this stunning "ex-
pose" are worth a second look. "At one
point," Ledbetter writes, "Csorba
pulled from his file cabinet what he
called his 'secret target list' of radical
professors." At the end of the same
paragraph, he writes, "I asked Csorba
how he compiled the list; he told me he
took it from a list of faculty who had
endorsed a rally opposing U.S. in-
volvement in Central America." Two
things call Ledbetter's account into
question.

The list he is referring to is, as I told
him, a published document entitled,
"A National Appeal for Peace with
Justice in Central America." It is an
open letter protesting U.S. interven-
tion in Central America. The list was
compiled, then, by the signatories
themselves, and then released to the
public. When a copy was sent to me, I
kept it in our correspondence file. I
showed it to Ledbetter because it il-
lustrates the extent of political activity
among leftist profesors.

On the front of the list, in typeset,
there is a plea for peace and a dove
bearing an olive branch- hardly the
design I would have selected for my lit-
tle hit list. Another interesting point is
that none of the people criticized in our
monthly newspaper,
The
Campus
Report, are on that list whose existence
Ledbetter has since revealed to the
world.

Another illustration of Ledbetter's
lack of integrity concerns a course
syllabus he showed us during his visit,
which I've kept as well. It is from a
class he himself was taking at Yale en-
titled "Marxist Dialectic and Rhetoric."
Presumably, he brought the syllabus
along to get our reaction to it, and in-
deed we gave it a quick look. But
Ledbetter doesn't record our reactions,
and I think I know the reason. When he
showed it to us, we pointed out that the
reading list included Arthur Koestler's
The God that Failed, and we promptly
dismissed Ledbetter's suggestion that
the course was weighted with Marxist
propaganda. But this awkward little ex-
change just didn't fit into his "expose."

Ledbetter has a literary reporting
style which leans heavily on dialogue
and direct quotations. How did he get
them at such length? He didn't take
notes as we spoke, and he doesn't men-
tion a tape recorder. In the article he
informs us in passing that, "Some time
(later),
I
excused myself to the
bathroom to scribble notes of our con-
versation." We had a two or three hour
conversation, and "some time" after it
was over he scratched out these sup-
posedly incriminating comments word
for word. Think about it. There were
12 verbatim quotations-adding up to
some 170 words- based on notes hasti-
ly scribbled out in a bathroom stall.
That boy has amazing recall.

Another comical detail
in
Ledbetter's account has me watching
Battle for the Planet of the Apes, upon
his return from composing in the
bathroom. In his attempt to make me
look silly, I'm afraid he only shows
what a dishonest man he is. When he
walked in I was rewinding a recently
recorded McNeil/Lehrer debate on
AlA, and every time I stopped the
tape, on came the apes. Ledbetter
himself had expressed an interest in
seeing the tape. Again, your in-
vestigative reporter sacrificed the truth
for a laugh at our expense.

"Once the accusation is made,"
Ledbetter concludes, "substantiated or
not, a professor's reputation is already
tarnished." Good point. And this leads
me to ask again why nobody from The
New Journal ever called me to substan-
tiate all these accusations. The irony is
pretty obvious. You express your fears
that AlA might publish false and un-
substantiated stories on professors
-which we have never done- and
then proceed to publish a false and
unsubstantiated "expose" on AlA.
Les Csorba, III
Executive Director, AlA

jim Ledbetter responds:
Csorba's details about his list confirm a ma-
jor point of my article: Accuracy in Academia
gives its student "monitors" the names of
allegedly leftist professors to target. Prior to
my article, Accuracy in Academia frequently
denied in public that this was their aim (see
Reed Irvine's letter to the editor, The New
Republic, Dec. 23). Furthermore, these
targeted individuals are being harassed for
political beliefs expressed outside of the
classroom, not for "inaccuracies" inside. One
of these «professors" that Csorba instructed me
to target is not only no longer at Yale, she
was never even on the faculty here; she held an
administrative position. The idea that sign-
ing an open letter on a broad political issue
such as Central America can lead to red-
baiting in the name of "accuracy» ought to
give all of us pause.

My article contains seven quotations from
Csorba and Scully taken from our meeting-
all other citations come from telephone conver-
sations, during which I took careful notes.
Our meeting lasted two hours, and I wrote
down the word-for-word quotes about 90
minutes through the meeting. Given that the
purpose of my visit to AlA's office was
precisely to gather such verbatim material,
and that I was concentrating accordingly, I
do not consider this an extraordinary feat of
memory.

It is typical of AlA that Csorba's letter ad-·
dresses none of the substance of my article,
only those portions which made him appear
foolish. I understand that Csorba's project is
to cover up the group's ideological purposes,
but he is sadly mistaken if he thinks that the
biggest problem with AlA is whether or not
employees watch · TV movies on company
time.


Another Other Side
To the Editors:
In her recent article "The Other Side of
Brunch" (TN],
12/6/85), Tamar
Lehrich used my statements to support
her claim that "because of the
economic and social differences which
emerge once students put on their blue
uniforms, workers often resent those
whom they have to serve."

In point of fact, I know of no in-
stances in which the economic dif-


ferences among student workers have
caused resentment or hostility; indeed,
due to the extreme diversity of the
economic backgrounds of student
workers, financial status fails to con-
stitute an issue at all.

Ms.
Lehrich's assumptions that
because we work we are poor, or that
because we earn money we resent
those who do not, are misconceptions
that would have been dispelled with
objective investigation. Instead, my
words were taken entirely out of con-
text to substantiate Ms. Lehrich's inac-
curate preconceptions.
Bettina Elias
PC '87

Considerate Kennedys
I read the December issue of The New
journal while listening to records.
When I saw "Sound Effects," by Jen
Fleissner (p. 4), I paused and grabbed
the nearest album: "Warning," it said
on the cover. "The inside fold-out to
this record cover is a work of art by
H. R. Giger that some people may
find shocking, repulsive or offensive."
So why is this piece of trash in there?
"Life can sometimes be that way," it
continued. I never knew the Dead
Kennedys could be so considerate
(without PMRC, no less).
S. Fraidin
P.S. It was quite a repulsive fold-out.

Issues of Neutrality
I would like to respond to the article,
"Bridging the Gap" (TN], 10/11/85).
Let me begin by stating my position on
the subject. Throughout the course of
the strike I considered myself a neutral
student who believed in the Union's
right to
strike as
well
as
the
University's stance in negotiations. It
is important to know where people
stand when they discuss an issue with
which they've previously been involved.
The New Journal has failed to do this.

The union article was written by
Melissa Turner and Jay Carney.
While I am not aware of Turner's
stance during the strike, I know that
Carney was a vocal student activist.
He picketed Commons, took part in
various union activities, and was even
on the front page of the Yale Daily News
when he helped stage a sit-in at CCL to
protest library schedule changes.

I have no objections to these ac-
tivities, but once Carney puts his
byline on an article, the reader should
know about them. Carney's union
sympathies were not mentioned at the
end of the article, only that he was a
junior in T.D. The fact that Carney is
not an unbiased journalist would
change the way one reads the article.

Consider the description of ad-
ministration official Jack Siggins. Sig-
gins, we learn, "sits in his well-lit and
spacious office overlooking the court-
yard." The article later states that
"although Unionists might describe
Siggins and his wife as tyrants, they
keep such characteristics well hidden."
According to Carney, the Sigginses are
in fact tyrannical. He is agreeing with
the Union's accusations.

I would not object to this article if
there were one or two lines that seemed
biased. The whole tone of the article,
however, resembles a union tract. At
one point, Carney concludes, "It is
tempting, so easy to conclude, like Sig-
gins, that the kinks . . . will work
themselves out over time." We soon
learn that this is not the case. Poor, evil
Siggins has done it again. Or has he?
David Kramer
BR '87

The writers respond:
We feel that, by knowing only one of the co-
writers' backgrounds, Kramer made a broad
assumption about the tone of the article.
Turner's stance during the strike was much
like Kramer's. The examples you highlight to
illustrate Carney's bias were written and
agreed upon by both writers, as was the entire
article.

The New Journal encourages letters to the editor
and comment on Yale and New Haven issues.
Write to Joyce Banerjee, Editorials, 3432 Yale
Station, New Haven, CT 06520. All letters for
publication must include address and signature.
The New Journal reserves the right to edit all let-
ters for publication.


**NewsJournal**
**Author: Steve Lelewer**
**Page number(s): 6**

Resurfacing Issues
General Dynamics,
the owner of
Connecticut's Electric Boat shipyard,
can't seem to leave scandal in its wake.
On December 2, a federal grand jury
charged the company with masking
$7.5 million in cost overruns on a
prototype of the Sergeant York anti-
aircraft gun. General Dynamics (GD),
three present company officials, NASA
Chief and former GD Director James
Beggs, were all charged with commit-
ting fraud.

In response to the allegations, the
Navy announced on December 3 that
it was indefinitely suspending GD for
the second time in six months, thereby
forbidding the nation's third largest
defense contractor from receiving any
new government contracts. But the
next day the Navy extended the
December 6 bidding deadline on four
nuclear-powered attack submarines to
keep GD, a main bidder, in the
running. Two days later, the Air Force
followed suit by extending the bidding
on a new fighter plane, which GD is
also competing to build.

The fraud
allegedly took
place
between 1978 and 1981. During that
time, GD was developing a prototype
of the ill-fated Sergeant York, hoping
to win governmental approval to build
the weapon. GD allegedly hid cost
overruns on the program in two
separate accounts,
one involving
weapons-related research and the other
covering the preparation of bids for
other Defense Department contracts.
GD never got the chance to build the
final version of the anti-aircraft gun; in
1981, the Army chose Ford Aerospace
to develop the gun. In August of last
year,
Defense Secretary Caspar
Weinberger cancelled
the entire
Sergeant York program after
weapon repeatedly failed to pass per-
formance tests.

Sources claim that the Pentagon's
suspension of GD is not intended as
punishment.
Rather, said Chip
Partner, a spokesman for Connecticut
Congressman Sam Gejdenson, the
suspension is allowing the Pentagon to
"take a good, hard look at what the
company has done to improve its ac-
counting procedures." According to
Partner, Pentagon officials plan to visit
several GD divisions,
including
Electric Boat in Groton, to examine
both
those procedures and
implementation of a code of ethics,
which GD was required to institute
after the first company suspension.

If GD is found guilty of the charges,
the Pentagon will be forced to consider
debarment, the prohibition of bidding
on
any government contracts.
Explained
Navy spokesman
Bill
Harlow, "There are various kinds of
debarment. You can do it against
certain persons, you can do it against
companies or divisions of companies
for a certain period of time. There are
a lot of options available."

But just how "available" are these
options? In fact, GD's monopolies on
construction of the Navy's Trident
submarine, the Army's M-1 tank, and
the Air Force's F-16 jet fighter all
impede severe government reprisal. As
the bidding extensions demonstrate,
GD, like other major defense con-
tractors, enjoys an impunity which the
Pentagon inevitably must recognize.
Colonel Robert O'Brien, deputy assis-
tant secretary of defense, pointed out,
"To go
into major
fighter com-
petition and automatically exclude
one of your major fighter manufactur-
ers over something that may be
resolved in a matter of weeks-you're
really cutting off your nose to spite
your face."

The Pentagon's recent actions,
however, may signal new willingness
to police itself and its suppliers.
Indeed, the Pentagon exposed the
alleged fraud despite the involvement
of a
high-ranking Administration
official,
NASA Chief Beggs.
On
December 4, Beggs announced that he
was taking a leave of absence from his
post. And on December 26, the Naval
Sea Systems Command offered
Newport
News Shipbuilding the
opportunity to inspect and repair a
Trident submarine later this year.

Since Newport News is the only other
shipyard in the country with the
potential to build a Trident, the offer
represents at least a small step towards
eliminating GD's monopoly on the
sub. Said O'Brien, "The fact that there
are indictments and the fact that the
government is recouping money indi-
cates to me that something not only has
not gone wrong, something has gone
right."

For General Dynamics, the path
ahead looks anything but promising.
While no trial date has been set
concerning the Sergeant York indict-
ments, a new set of charges against the
company is being prepared in Connec-
ticut. Stemming from damaging tape
recordings made by former Electric
Boat Chairman P. Takis Veliotis, these
indictments of former GD Chairman
David Lewis and others are expected
to be handed down sometime in the
next six months.
-Steve Lelewer



**Good Neighbors**
**Author:  [Author not specified]**

Good Neighbors
For too many years, Bill Drayton, Law
'70, saw attempts by developed coun-
tries to revitalize the Third World fail.
Relief organizations supply monetary



**Title: The Ashoka Society: Quietly Getting Things Done**
**Author: Lym1 Bronson**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
assistance and skilled trammg to the 
impoverished , without really under-
standing the values and culture of the 
needy 
nation. 

Believing 
that 
the 
citizens themselves could best bring 
about reform in underdeveloped lands, 
Drayton formed in 1982 the Ashoka 
Society, a relief organization which 
funds Third W orld public service pro-
jects. The Arlington, Virginia-based 
organization now has 1400 members 
and friends and four chapters nation-
wide, including one in New Haven. 

Relying solely on the private sector, 
the Ashoka Society supports not only 
projects but the individuals who create 
them, hoping to provide Third World 
entrepreneuers with an independence 
otherwise unavailable. 

Concentrating its efforts in India 
and Indonesia, Ashoka gives native 
citizens with sound ideas for public ser-
vice work an annual stipend of $2,500 
to $3,500. The money can be used by 
the recipients for personal expenses or 
as capital for new projects. "It's their 
vision we're supporting," said Ted 
Marmor, a memberofthe New Haven 
chapter and a professor of public 
management and social science at 
Yale. 

Since its inception, Ashoka has funded 
33 Third World fellows and now sup-
ports 27. Because of Drayton's work in 
India as an undergraduate, Ashoka has 
a network of friends in Asia who report 
periodically about projects in need of 
funding. "Environmental Education," 
one of Ashoka's most successful pro-
grams in India, stresses that students 
learn from their environment, not 
from rote memorization. The system 
has been nationalized and now affects 
nearly 18,000 schoolchildren. 

The society gathers the necessary 
funds from individuals and corpora-
tions alike. The New Haven chapter 
has raised $500 from its five members 
and is now in the middle of a fund-
raising effort among its 
friends. 

Nonetheless. the local soc1ety is search-
ing actively for a suuable Third \\"orld 
candidate for a five-year fellO\\ ~hip . 
Drayton and the Ashoka Society 
have earned a 
national 
reputation 
for 
innovation 
and 
1m pact, 
as evinced by a MacArthur Fellowship 
which Drayton 
recently received, 
~ corporated, the company that pro-
duces Coppertone and dominates 
the suntan lotion market. Word had 
reached them of Pawelek's inven-
tion. 

Dr. 
Richard Hurd, 
vice-
president of the company, wanted to 
produce and market Pawelek's mol-
ecule. "You can make people tan in 
Chicago in January," he excitedly told 
the inventor. 

prom1smg him $40,000 annually for 
four years. With this stable income, he 
can now direct all his efforts into the 
organization, which may expand its 
aid into North and South America. 

The society may very well succeed 
wherever it travels, because it is, as 
Marmor put it, "an example of a quiet 
network which gets things done. It's 
mainly something we believe in, a way 
for us to do our share of good." 


**Title: Who Needs Florida?**
**Author: Bronwyn Barkan**

When 
Dr. John Pawelek, 
senior 
research scientist in dermatology at 
Yale, dropped his pants in a lecture to 
medical residents, he had a very good 
reason. Pointing to a small tan spot in 
the midst of an otherwise pale leg, 
Pawelek displayed the accidental side 
effect of a molecule he had synthesized, 
which would allow people to maintain 
a healthy golden tan without the bene-
fit of sunny Bahaman beaches. 

Pawelek had been searching for a 
cure to melanoma, a form of skin 
cancer. "One day I was sitting out in 
my back yard late at ni~rht iust free 
associating ... ," Pawelek explained, 
when he conceived of synthetically 
developing a molecule known as phos-
phodopa as a possible remedy for the 
disease. Four years later, after he had in-
jected laboratory mice with phospho-
dopa, he discovered that the molecule 
had not cured their melanoma, but had 
encouraged their cells to produce more 
pigment. The mice had tanned. 

At a dermatology convention in 
1982 Pawelek was approached by a 
representative of Memphis Plough In:. 

Pawelek decided to investigate with 
the Yale Office of Cooperative Re-
search the possibility of a commercial 
company marketing and producing a 
substance invented 
in 
a 
Yale 
laboratory. After complex patent pro-
cedures, an agreement was reached 
between Memphis Plough Inc. and 
Yale, whereby the patent would be 
shared, and Pawelek would continue to 
be involved with the manufacturing of 
his product. 

Memphis Plough Inc. is currently 
conducting toxicity tests in accordance 
with Federal Food and Drug Admin-
istration regulations. Pawelek does not 
believe they will hnd his product 
poisonous. There were no toxic effects 
o·n the laboratory mice, despite the im-
mense doses of phosphodopa that they 
were administered. If the tests con-
tinue as planned, the product should 
hit drugstore shelves by 1987. 

If the product is succe~ful, its pro-
ceeds are sure to be extensive. "I have 
not the slightest idea of what the 
royalties are," Pawelek said. "I am in-
terested in doing research." In fact, 
Pawelek and the Department of Der-
matology will each receive 30 percent 
of the first $200,000 earned, and 
Pawelek will earn 20 percent of the 
profit after that initial sum. 

Pawelek hopes that his product will 
prevent people from over-exposing 
themselves to the sun and increasing 
their risks of contracting melanoma or 
other varieties of the disease. A word of 
caution is in order for all who believe 
their dreams are about to be fulfilled: 
this product will not allow you to tan 
beyond your natural limit. If you tan 
very little now, you are destined to re-
main pale. Nothing will help you 
become a bronze idol. 


**Title: Orders of the Court**
**Author: Jennifer Sachs**
**Page number(s): 9**

Nine thirty a.m. Monday morning. Courtroom A, located at the end of a long and dusty 
hallway in the New Haven County Courthouse, slowly fills with people. The vast majority 
are men, mostly Hispanic or black. Many appear to have been here before- they stroll in 
casually, calling out greetings and chatting with their wives and girlfriends. In the comer, a 
white girl of about 17, expensively dressed, sits quietly under the "No Smoking" sign. Her 
mother hovers over her. At exactly 10 a.m., the bailiff appears, loudly proclaiming the en-
trance of the judge, but the rest of his speech is barely intelligible as assorted members of the 
crowd shuffie to their feet. From a doorway behind the bench, Judge Robert E. Reilly 
emerges and declares Arraignment Court in session for the day. He reads his rules. No 
wearing hats. No chewing gum. Absolutely no talking. With a final glare around the room, 
he begins the day's proceedings. 



**Title: Arraignment Court**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The mere existence of Reilly's rules underscores a problem which has plagued the New Haven courthouse: the difficulty of maintaining order and efficiency in a system with a seemingly unending flow of entrants. In an average day, between 100 and 200 people will appear before the court in a five to six hour period, whether it be for arraignments, motor vehicle infractions, or pre-trial hearings. If cases are not disposed of quickly, enormous backlogs can and do result. Reilly's arrival in New Haven two years ago was intended to facilitate the reduction of a buildup of cases rapidly approaching the thousands. Before his departure on December 31, he succeeded in cutting the backlog in half, but at a cost which cannot easily be ascertained. Whether this judicial expedition meant an improvement or simply a further depersonalization of justice is a matter of some debate among court personnel. So, too, is the validity of the system as a whole. In a city populated largely by minorities, questions of racial and economic prejudice are bound to arise. These strike at the heart of the court system as it currently operates, calling into question the very nature of the judicial process.


10:30 a.m. About 20 defendants have been called before the judge. One has not appeared, and a re-arrest warrant has been issued in his name. Reilly shakes his head, thinks a moment, and fixes the amount at 1475. He goes on to the next name on the docket.


Arraignment Court is by far the busiest. Anyone who is arrested or is issued a warrant in the district must appear there initially, alleged murderers as well as shoplifters. For a number of defendants, one day is all they will have to spend in the courtroom, waiting on the cramped wooden benches and chairs for their names to be called. When they are summoned before the judge, they will plead guilty to the charges against them. These are usually only petty misdemeanors, ranging from creating a public disturbance to trespassing, which carry fines as punishment. Most defendants will pay these fines silently and go, grateful to be spared the expense and embarrassment of having to miss another day of work or school to protest their innocence in court. A few will be recalcitrant, but a little coaxing from the judge or prosecutor, who explain that their charges have been lessened but that if they press for a trial the original charges will be reinstated, is usually convincing. The entire business takes only a few seconds; this way as many as 100 defendants can pass before the judge by lunchtime.


12:15 p.m. The cases move so quickly that keeping an accurate count of them is nearly impossible. About three defendants have requested the aid of a public defender to assist them before they plead guilty or not guilty; Reilly sends them down to the other end of the hall, where the public defender's office is located. A large spare room with tiny cubicle offices extending off it, this office is littered with old newspapers, coffee cups, and boxes full of various legal forms. Cartoons cover much of the wallspace, and a plush red heart with drops of cloth blood hanging from it is suspended from the window. One of the defendants sits down at the desk and begins to answer questions relating to his job status, age, and income; all the way down the hall, he has been murmuring, "Shit. I gotta get my ass back to work." He leans nervously over the desk as the investigator fills out his application and sits back, visibly relieved, when it is completed. Then he returns to the courtroom to have the application approved by the judge.


Those clients who are appointed legal help often find that their lawyers are just as frustrated by the complexities of the system. Lauren Weisfeld, deputy assistant public defender, feels that there is "an intense pressure just to process people through. They don't see the clients as people- if you say you want to file motions or investigate, they see it as you giving them a hard time." Weisfeld came to the New Haven Office of the Public Defender after five years in St. Louis during which she worked on serious felony cases, and is hoping eventually to perform the same duties here. For the moment, Weisfeld handles relatively minor felonies, working out of a small office decorated with posters from the Internationalist World Calendar. A snapshot of Bob Marley, another of Miles Davis are pinned to her bulletin board. Weisfeld is angered by what she feels are abuses in the appointment of public defenders. Although legal aid is available on request for all persons charged with offenses that entail potential jail time, regardless of their ability to pay, she believes "many, even most people don't know to ask for an attorney, and don't get one."


Reilly disagrees. "If you've been in my courtroom, you've seen that I'm very liberal in appointing public defenders- any person who appears in court for a serious offense is foolish not to have one," he said. However, public defenders are not automatically assigned; normally, on entering the courtroom, defendants are instructed initially to speak to the on-duty prosecutor, whose job it then becomes either to suggest the aid of counsel or alternatively to offer a reduced charge in return for a guilty plea.


After a one-hour lunch break, Weisfeld and the other public defenders return to the courtroom with their clients. As a matter of course, they ask for one or two-week continuances to investigate the circumstances of the alleged crime. This time is almost always granted, although a judge is within his rights to refuse it altogether. The client files are then handed over to the two investigators for the public defender's office, Tina Huckaby and Annie Yopp Hill.


Hill and Huckaby have spent their lives working in New Haven; they know its climate and its nature well. Huckaby said, "There are boundaries in every section of New Haven, certain areas of every section where you have undesirables. Cross certain streets, it becomes a little different." As investigators, the women are intimately connected with the defendants; going out into the neighborhoods and searching for evidence or witnesses is part of their daily routine. Although the backbone of the investigator force is retired policemen, Hill and Huckaby are unusual in that both are black women and part of the New Haven community. They work among their peers and sometimes their friends. "Sometimes when we leave here we see a lot of clients. I go to places, different bars or cafes- I see them. It gets to the point where I'll stop going to a certain place, because I'm tired of seeing the same faces," Huckaby said. Hill's experiences are similar. "When I'm in my neighborhood, I feel like the mayor-my hand goes up and down, I know so many people. I know something of everybody there is."


After about 2:30 p.m., Arraignment Court begins to lose its circus atmosphere. The defendants who were arrested yesterday for serious offenses and held in jail overnight are brought upstairs from lock-up, a collection of benched cells beneath the courthouse. There are no women among them, and no whites either, at least not today. Most look young, in their mid-twenties. The charges are read: violation of probation predominates, along with a few armed robberies and one murder. The men listen dispassionately as their bonds are set and return to their seats after the judge has finished with them. They do not look around the room, most of them, nor do they appear to have any interest in the proceedings which do not involve them. Meanwhile, the teenaged girl and her mother have just left, their faces wreathed in smiles and the girl's charge, that of trespassing on the reservoir, dismissed without penalty.


The high percentage of minorities in the New Haven community is reflected in crime statistics as well. Reilly estimated that on any given day, between 70 and 75 percent of the defendants in his courtroom were minorities, largely black or Hispanic. He attributed this high crime rate to the breakdown of social institutions "Many of the kids in the inner city have gotten away from the things that made the blacks and the Hispanics great, like the church. It was a source of stability. The breakdown of families is another source of problems."


Hill thinks the problem is more complex. "I see so many people I've known for years, and they have nothing. What did my mother and father do that none of us turned out criminals?" she said. Hill believes that poverty is an important factor. "Ignorance, lack of education, not being able to keep a secure job- these all count. I've seen layoffs turn a lot of people into bums. People who were proud have gone to welfare. The economy has a lot to do with it,"


Hill and Huckaby attempt to do what impromptu social work they can to keep economic or social hardship from turning one-time clients into repeat offenders. "The younger ones I will talk to. They're the ones that get the best from me. Most of them I know, or their backgrounds, or their families. They're the ones you try to get to first," Huckaby said. "The odds seem to be against them, but they are what they are. They don't have to be what they're told to be. I don't like patting them on the back and feeling sorry for them." Hill is angered by "the whole idea of coming down here for stupid, senseless things. I tell them, 'Don't you get tired of looking in the white man's face?'"


This racial confrontation is one that occurs regularly at the courthouse. All of the judges currently on the bench there are white, as are the head prosecutor and all of the public defenders.



**Title: A Day in Court**
**Author: Jennifer Sachs**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"If you really believe 
that innocent people 
shouldn't go to jail, 
you have to accept 
that guilty people will 
get off free." 
Some court operators feel that the im-
balance of black and Hispanic clients 
and white officials manifests itself in 
subtle forms of racism. 
Reilly 
vehemently denies that any prejudice 
exists in his courtroom, claiming that 
in law school, while living in a low-
income housing district, he came to 
understand inner-city people. "You 
have to be concerned about the 
people out there," he said. "You have 
to slow it down, make sure that they 
understand things." 
For Weisfeld, the method of what 
she calls "treating adults like children" 
is symptomatic of prejudice in itself. 
"Racial prejudice and poverty are in-
tertwined. People are treated in an un-
dignified way," she said, citing the 
practice of calling defendants by their 
first names in court. "There's no ques-
tion about it, you will always be given 
a better chance if you're white." 

Weisfeld is not alone in voicing con-
cern. According to Deputy Assistant 
State's Attorney Juliette Crawford, 
"Someone may come in well-dressed, 
neat and clean, and it floors them. 
That doesn't fit the stereotype." For 
Hill, there is only a matter-of-fact ac-
ceptance. "I've seen a white girl come 
in here for prostitution, and a black 
girl with the same circumstances. 
They'll put the white girl in a halfway 
house, and send the black girl to Nian-
tic [Correctional Institution)." Calmly, 
she told the story of an investigator 
who once asked a public defender if he 
"didn't ever get tired of representing all 
those coons," and laughed. 
"You 
know," Hill said, "the sickest fucking 
Aggressive. 
How important is it for a b.ank to be aggressive? In today's deregu-
lated environment- very. Aggressive pursuit of new business and 
good people drive the best financial services companies. 
Banquest is aggressive. Our three New Mexico banks include 
the largest in Santa Fe and Taos and the fastest growing in 
Albuquerque. 
If you'd like to be pan of an aggressive banking company in the 
growing Southwest, come talk to us. 
Contact Cheri Howell at (505) 984-7770. 


**Title: University Health Services Under Fire**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"Students will always 
complain about two 
things: school food 
and health care." 
At 10:00 p.m. on October 9, Aimet' 
Wolfson, TD '87, twisted hel· ankle 
before the Stiles gate. Rushed to 
Urgent Visit by the Yale police, she 
anived at 10:30. Wolfson grimaced 
and shook her head as she recalled her 
ensuing 11xperience with the University 
Health $el'Vkes (UHS). She spent the 
next two hours in the waiting room in 
extreme 
pain; her requests for 
painkillers and aspirin went ignored. 
She said that, once admitted, she 
received a curs.ory examination from·a 
doctor whose only advice was that she 
return the next day for x·rays. The 
non-physician who then treated her 
failed to wash a dirty bleeding !~Crape . 
The foJJowing morning, the physician 
told her she had sprained her ankle, 
and referred her to Physical Therapy 
to have it taped. There, the therapist 
informed her she would be able to walk 
without crutches in three days. 
Despite her doubts about the 
possibility of walking 
.JOOO 
and 
misgivings about the quality of her 
treatment. Wolfson did not question 
the diagnosis. But her parents, both 
physicians, did. Arriving the next day 
for Parents' Weekend, they realized 
that their daughter's problem was 
considerably more serious than had 
been diagnosed. But the orthopedic 
surgeon contracted by the Health Plan 
had left his office earlier that Friday 
and would not be available for three 
days. Convinced that their daughter 
required 
a 
specialist's care, 
the 
Wolfsons finally took her without 
referral to the 
Yale~New Haven 
Hospital emergency room, where a 
physician diagnoaec.l the problem to be 
torn ligaments and set her ankle in a 
cast. He informed her that. baq she 
twisted the ankle again, . she . Woql(i 
have required an oper~tion. 


Most undergraduates consider ;
Wolfwn's expetience typical of UHS, 
Yet despite the per-va11ive :feeling that 
the Health Services provide shQd({y 
care, "horror stories" abOt.tt trc;a~'l 
at UHS are not easy to com~by!'~~ 
pressed 
beyond 
theit 
lltr;)ck 
response-"DUH sq.cks"-stude~ 
often cannot back their loW opioi 
with specifics. Granted, examples' 
incompetence do exist. but ~el'tainly.u
not in numben large era~·;..,~ 
account solely for the high ~l- of 
dissatisfaction. Rather, the aout1! 
appears to be a combination Of_ Stude 
misperceptions and the Jie#lth 
Services' very real inadequaties;. 
complicated by the ocaJsional aco:>ii"iii 
of misdiagnosis and mis~t. 
Resolving these problems may pr.ove 
impossible. The star.:t)jng l8c;k. :or. 
communication 
betweeft ·.the 
undergraduate community and UHS 
currently prevents solution. Ther.d'ore, 
student misunderstanding lin~r'l, an<t 
the Health Services' flaws go negl~d. 
Ultimately, Wolfson blames the 
\'ery structure of the Health Services 
for her shoddy care. Her physician at 
UHS, she accused, was unwilling W 
give her thorough treatment because it 
woJid be too costly. Her criticism may 
be valid: UHS is modeled upon a 
system designed to reduce medical care 
costs. In l971 Yale abandoned its 
insufficient health care system, the. 
Department of University Health, and 
created the first university-based 
Health Maintenance Organization 
(HMO) to offer comprehensive health


to its faeulty, staff, students, 
1;{"-l~.:•~o:;llluc:nUJ by assembling a 
general practitioners and 
ld"~llt"'"''"w:sl~ under one roof. 
UHS adopted the guiding principle 
&be HMO: to provide th~ highest 
PEli:JUl~Un:v ,.a~ ~t the loweat possible 
,by tneiUl• of a pre•pay~nt 
• •~ ·-··-
Rather than pay each time 
care, members buy into the 
Plan by paying a ~et premium. 
V(henever they do need care, 
f~~ellllb4~r.- · go fint 
to a general 
dl'!li,'N .. rriti·n'n,,..r who diagnoses them, and, 
refen them to an 
c•PJ)rO]priatl:: no-noe>u>IC specialist Or lO a 
outside the plan if the 
~)l}~m is beyond the scope of staff 
Therefore, one of the 
Services' attractive features 
should be ease of patient referral. But 
stude~-referred to specialists' care 
often ~ 
lhemlielves at the .end of a 
wafliftc lilt. And in frustration, 
go o~ 
UHS for treatment. 
•v ................. johnson developed what 
she th~t was a urinary tract infec-
tion (lJTI), a paiQ[ul inflammation of 
the urethra or bl.ader. She turned first 
to Undergraduate Medicine. But when 
her ailment did not respond to 
treatment, her physician ~ferred ber 
to the UHS urologist, 
who sees 
students at the Health Genter on 
Wednesday afternoons. Told that the 
first available appointment was not for 
another mqnth aad a half. Johnson 
turned to Gy~, 
hoping that a 
referral from that department might 
speed the proc:aa. She got the refenal, 
but still could not circumvent the 
wamng 
list. In great pain and 
unwilling. to live with it for six weeks, 
she, like Wolfson, consulted private 
practitioners outside UHS for care. It 
was a $200 decision. but one which got 
her prompt and effective treatment. 
Students, 
however, 
level 
more 
complaints at particular departments 
of the Health Services than they do at 
its organizational structure. In fact, 
none of. the departments students visit 
most frequently- Athletic Medicine, 
Obstetrics/Gynecology, Mental 
Hygiene, Undergraduate Medicine, 
Urgent Visit- escape criticism. 
Students claim that Athletic 
Medicine fails to practice its stated 
policy: 
returning athletes to 
competition as soon as they can 
participate without risking further 
injury. 
Athletes say 
that the 
department places a higher priority on 
sending them back to the fields than it 
does on their health. One student 
described the staff as "a patch·'ern-up-
and·push-'em-out-there sort of crew." 
Athletes commonly believe that advice 
from Athletic Medicine should be. 
taken with a grain of 11alt. and many 
turn to practitioners outside UHS-
some on the ad\' ice of their coaChes. All 
but one of the athletes who reported 
having bad experiences refused to have 
their stories published. Even after 
being offered anonymity, they de-
clined, saying that the nature of their 
problems would identify them. 
Cynthia Russell was willing to break 
the silence only because she is no 
longer able to compete as a runner. 
She cannot walk for long periods 
without pain, and her right hip 
remains bruised to this da)'. While she 
does not blame her permanent dis-
ability on Athletic Medicine, she does 
accuse 
the department of having 
exacerbated her injury: "Because the 
physician took a shortcut I was stuck 
on crutches for three months," she 
said. Now, Russell runs short distances 
occasionally on her own. "l love to 
run," she explained, smiHng shyly as 
she pointed at the copy of Runner 
Magazine on her trunk. She refused to 
name the physician who had treated 
her because she had never confronted 
him directly herself. 
Russell, now a senior, had not run 
competitively before freshman year. 
Upon arriving at Yale, she joined the 
cross-country team and improved hrr 
distance running dramatically in very 
little time. Her body was unprepared 
for the change, however, and she 
injured her right hip. Though she tried 
stretching and applying heat and ice to 
the sore area, the pain persisted. It 
prevented her from completing her last 
race of the season. The next day she 
went to UHS. 
•Tne doctor who rxamined rne had 
been an athlete himself, so I trusted 
him. • she recalled. He explainw to her 
that her problem was a common one, 
and prescribed Motrin, a disinflam-
matory drug. But the pain in her hip 
intensified, and she 
returned to 
Athletic Medicine. This time, the 
physician offered her cortisone, a hor-
mone injected into the tissue around 
joints to reduce inflammation. The 
doctor assured RusseU that the pain 
would vanish within hours of the shot 
and that she would be able to run after 
a few days. She accepted the injection. 
Pain increa~d drarnaticaJly after the 
.shot. In a few hours, she could not 
walk without timeing, She .called the 
physician, wJ:LO :'gain ~xplained that 
the tenderness would ,soon go_ away. It-
didn't. Russell consulted a private 
orthopedic surgeon when she went 
home for Christmas break. BJaming 
the cortisone for worsening her 
condition, h"e put her on crutches. A 
New Haven orthopedic surgeon 
Russell visited upon returning to Yale 
recommended that she be treated with 
ultrasound. She received the therapy at 
UHS, and her condition improved. 
After spring break, she was able to 
walk without crutches. 
According to Dr. Daniel Larson, the 
director and only full-time physician in 
Athletic Medicine, the pressure to 
return to competition tends to come 
from athletes, not coache11. Larson 
added, however, that ~mphasizing a 
speedy recovery never outweighs his 
chief concern: the athlete's health. "We 
want no probability of further injury," 
said Larson, who competed in track at 
Yale. 
Articulate and humorous, 
Larson demonstrated great command 
over his department's statistics. He 
explained that many athletes ignore 
their own long-term health care by not 
returning for further treatment after 
they begin to feel better. "If you have a 
concern about the long-term 
implications of treatment, ask," he 
advised. But this safeguard somehow 
does not seem sufficient. 
The Women's Center, the Coalition 
for an Educated Choice (CEC), and 
the Student Gynecology Resource 
recently sponsored a survey of under-
graduate 
women 
to gauge their 
opinion of UHS's department of Ob-
stetrics and Gynecology (OB/GYN). 
According to Hilary 
Fox, 
co-
coordinator of the CEC, many of the 
women surveyed complained of being 
unable to schedule appointments to 
have urgent problems treated 
expeditiously. "People are upset about 
having to wait more than a month or 
six weeks for things like a urinary tract 
infection or a pelvic exam to get birth 
control. These problems are more 
important than the people at DUH 
thiok," Fox said. 
.In fact,' 
when patients call 
OB/GYN, it is departmental policy to 
automatically schedule them for 
appointments six to eight weeks in the 
fQture. However, according to Nurse 
Coordinator Vicki Wirth, women with 
specific problems can be seen in one 
day's time. If patients, after being 
offered a distant appointment, ·then 
explain that 
they have pressing 
concerns, the receptionist will refer 
them to Wirth, who will evaluate the 
urgency of their need. "What the 
patient needs to know," Wirth said, "is 
that if they have a problem and need to 
come in sooner, they should speak to 
the nurse coordinator. The real 
problem is the person who calls in, 
hears the first available appointment is 
six to eight weeks off, gets angry and 
hangs up without pursuing her 
concern further." 
But the "real problem" is that no-
where is this information offered to 
women. The department's handbook 
does not include it in its section 
concerning appointments at OB/GYN. 
Fox herself had never heard the 
process described and, when informed, 
became indignant. She argued that a 
person should neither have to dig for 
an appointment nor give personal in-
formation to a receptionist untrained 
in providing gynecological care. 
Wirth feels that the existing system 
does not jeopardize women's health, 
and that much of the criticism is 
unfair: "People see a light at the end of 
the tunnel as relates to a specific neea. 
They have one time in mind for an 
appointment and are disappointed 
when they can't get it. So we're 
perceived as not being flexible," she 
said. But Wirth agreed that many 
women do not understand how to get 
an appointment at OB/GYN. "I don't 
think they pursue it," she said. "They 
just get discouraged." Yet under the 
present system, Wirth reports that by 
11:00 a.m. her desk is buried beneath 
records of people who called in 
requesting urgent care. One wonders if 
OB/GYN could survive the onslaught 
if all 
its uninformed 
users were 
abruptly enlightened. 
This communication gap could be 
bridged easily by 
detailed 
explanation of the appointment 
process in the student and OB/GYN 
handbooks or, more effectively, by a 
revision of the existing system. Yet 
what can be the purpose of having the 
receptionist automatically give a 
distant appointment other than to 
discourage women from seeking care 
at OB/GYN? If this is the goal, the 
system seems to be 
successful. 
According to a worker at Planned 
Parenthood, an organization on 
Whitney Avenue which provides 
gynecological services, 
more Yale 
women have gone there for care this 
year than in the last three combined. 
"Many students have 
run into an over-
moralistic attitUde 
when asking for birth 
control. Sometimes 
they've been told that 
abstinence is the best 
method." 
Many undergraduates unable to 
schedule a satisfactory appointment in 
OB/GYN also turn to Undergraduate 
Medicine for gynecological care, as the 
"Guide to Obstetrical and Gynecol-
ogical Care" suggests. But there, 
according to Fox, "Many students have 
run into an overmoralistic attitude 
when 
asking for birth control. 
Sometimes they've been told that 
abstinence is the best method." 
One woman recalled her experience 
with Undergraduate Medicine. When 
she developed a urinary tract infection, 
a condition aggravated by her use of a 
diaphragm, Julia Goldburg was ex-
amined by a Student Medicine nurse 
practicioner who informed her that, in 
her opinion, Goldburg should not be 
having premarital sex. Goldburg said 
that the woman stood away from her



**Title: The Undergraduate and the Health Services**
**Author: James Bennet, Margaret Johnson, Cynthia Russell, Julia Goldburg**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
while performing the pelvic exam: 
"She seemed so uncomfortable doing 
it, like she thought she might catch 
kooties from me or something- like 
she might catch my disease." 
Undergraduates believe that unless 
they threaten suicide, they will be 
placed on a weeks-long waiting list for 
therapy at Mental Hygiene. According 
to Dr. Robert Arnstein, directorofMental 
Hygiene for 25 years, this perception 
comes from his department's attempt 
to meet an excessive demand. Those 
seeking therapy are first given an 
"initial evaluation" to determine their 
need. If considered "able to function," 
students are then referred to a waiting 
list. The length of the waiting list 
varies with the time of year. For 
example, students who come in on 
March 1 will be· given brief therapy be-
fore the end of the term, and then, if 
necessary, be invited back t~ continue at 
the beginning of the following school year. 
In addiuon, students believe that, 
once in therapy, they will eventually be 
ejected regardless of whether they have 
made any progress. This complaint is 
also grounded in fact, since a flexible 
limit of 15 50-minute visits is placed on 
those students considered "able to 
function. " Once past this limit, 
students must wait until the following 
year to pursue therapy, provided their 
m ental health does not degenerate. 
Arnstein pointed out that many colleges 
provtde for only three or four visits. 
"Yes, there are times we'd like to do 
more," be admitted, "but there's a 
financial limit." 


Students are likely to believe the worst 
of the Health Services because of a 
commonly held perception that the 
medical staff of UHS simply does not 
care about undergraduates. The health 
center is an enormous and busy place. 
Receptionists at the front desk seem 
more interested in the last four digits of 
social security numbers than in names, 
and the place is swarming with 
strangers. 


Added to students' confusion on 
using the Health Services is the 
frustration of waiting for walk-in care. 
Waiting rooms are comfortable, and 
certainly 
spacious . 
Chairs 
are 
cushioned, there is no Muzak (UHS 
dropped it years ago in response to 
complaints), 
and magazines and 
medical pamphlets litter the tables. But 
an afternoon spent leafing through last 
July's New Yorker and periodically 
glancing at the clock is not well spent 
for students in a hurry to get cured and 
get on with life. 


This phenomenon, often considered 
an integral part of the Yale experience, 
is nevertheless avoidable. UHS staff 
members, from the director on down, 
boast of Undergraduate Medicine's 
excellent record for providing same-
day appointments to students who call 
early in the morning. They do not 
need to turn to walk-in care to get 
speedy treatment. Yet the Health Plan 
handbook nowhere 
mentions 
this 
same-day appointment policy. 


Often, those students who do receive 
an appointment still feel alone and 
anonymous when they find themselves 
being examined by a different person 
each time. By recommending that sub-
scribers to the H ealth Plan regularly 
consult one member of the medical 
staff when they require treatment, 
U H S does try to make care more 
personal. But most undergraduates are 
clearly ignorant of this policy, though 
the handbook mentions it. 


Students, then, are partly to blame 
for their perception that the staff of 
UHS is insensitive. For example, 
undergraduates too busy during the 
day wander over to UHS at night 
expecting treatment. Urgent Visit staff 
become impatient dealing with 
students' sore throats while patients 
with more pressing problems are kept 
waiting. 


Unlike the pediatric 
specialists who- staff Undergraduate 
M edicine, the physicians, nurses, and 
physician's assistants of Urgent Visit 
are not trained specifically in treating 
the student age group. When students 
ask a lot of questions or refer to the 
kind of care they received at home, 
Urgent Visit health care providers may 
take offense. Students who do not 
understand their providers' impatience 
attribute it to indifference. 


Beyond claims of insensitivity, 
students frequently accuse the staff of 
downright incompetence. In some 
cases, students' failure to understand 
the nature of their sickness and 
treatment may be at the root of the 
problem. 


Within the college age 
group, illnesses tend to be viral and 
therefore difficult 
to diagnose. 
"Sometimes people have to be sick for a 
finite period of time before we know 
what's wrong with them," explained 
Dr. Jane Rasmussen, a pediatrician in 
Undergraduate Medicine. "Students at 
this stage tend to expect instant care. 
Many of the problems they have are 
viral- mononucleosis, hepatitis-
which modern medicine doesn't have a 
cure for yet. I keep saying maybe to-
morrow. If I don't bring my magic 
wand in some days I can't cure them. 
It's very frustrating." 


The most striking feature of the 
UHS- undergraduate relationship is 
the awesome lack of communication. 
Students aware of problems with 
UHS-either within a department's 
structure or with individual providers-
do not communicate their concerns 
to 
the 
Health Services, 
while 
UHS in turn does not reach out to 
students to dispel their misperceptions. 


UHS has established three vehicles for 
communication to encourage mem-
bers' input, but does not actively 
inform students of their existence. 
They are listed on the 51st page of the 
student handbook. Consequently, stu-
dents, either out of ignorance or 
apathy, do not make use of them. 


Although 
Health Services 
comment card system has served as a 
model for other organizations since 
UHS started using it in 1973, under-
graduates rarely take advantage of it. 
At the front desk in all main reception 
areas, the Health Plan deposits cards 
that encourage general comments and 
pose specific questions, such as "Does 
the UHS seem to you to be staffed by 
competent people?" and "Can you 
suggest any ways in which the UHS could 
improve 1ts services to patients?" Every 
two weeks the Comment Card Com-
mittee, which includes the director and 
the medical director of UHS, evaluates 
the cards and determines which 
member of the staff should respond to 
each comment, and department chiefs 
consult any member of their staff 
targetted with several complaints. No 
students who were interviewed had 
filed cards. 


Another potentially effective but less 
visible medium for communication 
with UHS is the Patient Health Care 
Coordinator, Geraldine Frei. From 
her tiny office on the first floor of the 
health 
center, 
Frei 
addresses in-
dividuals' needs: she is there to explain 
the system to confused patients, to try 
to resolve complaints and, if possible, 
to speed patient access to the various 
departments. However, she is rarely 
contacted by undergraduates and feels 
they are unaware of her office. Frei 
agreed that it would be a good idea to 
inform the students. "Once we posted 
notices about this office irt the offices of 
the residential college deans. We 
perhaps should get back to doing that 
again," she said. 


The third vehicle for dialogue is the 
Consumer Advisory Committee, 
which includes six undergraduate 
representatives among its 18 members. 
Though the committee's purpose is to 
put forward members' complaints and 
to propose new health programs, it 
seems to have no impact on or for the 
undergraduate community. Last year, 
the undergraduate representatives at-
tempted to sound out their peers' 
opinions of UHS. Their survey 
reached only 30 undergraduates, and 
they abandoned the project. Peter 
Litwin, 
DC '86 and committee 
chairman, explained that the under-
graduate representatives plan to raise 
their profile by putting out table tents 
to describe the committee and by 
holding a meeting to discuss the Health 
Plan. To date, the student body has yet 
to be informed of its representatives' 
names. The six students were listed in 
the winter issue of the Yak Health Plata 
Consumer Newsletter, 
which keeps 
H ealth Plan members updated on 
changes in UHS. It is not sent to 
undergraduates. 


Athletes commonly 
believe that advice 
from Athletic 
M edicine should be 
taken with a grain of 
salt. 


Students and UHS staff both acknowl-
edge the lack of communication and 
agree that it causes problems. Why, 
then, is no one doing anything about 
it? The student handbook is clearly 
inadequate. Most students do not have 
the stamina to forge their way through 
it, and, in any case, it omits important 
information. 


Failing to understand 
how to use UHS leads students to 
q uestion its quality. Hearing 
occasional horror stories about 
misdiagnosis and mistreatment at the 
H ealth Services fuels the perception 
that UHS is inadequate. Savvy upper-
classmen convey this negative attitude 
to arriving freshmen, who are already 
uneasy 
about using the 
Health 
Services for the first time. Vague 
denunciations of the quality of care 
abound ("I know I've heard stories 
... "), and misperceptions multiply. 


And the undergraduate community 
does not forget; that Yal!!'s health 
system is still called by its original 
initials, DUH, 14 years after its name 
was changed, is evidence of the 
tenacity of undergraduates' collective, 
collecting memory. 


Perhaps, then, UHS staff members 
are justifiably fatalistic about 
undergraduate criticism. 
One 
phy sicia n 
smiled ruefully in 
responding to students' common 
concerns. "Students will always 
complain about two things: school food 
and health care," she explained. These 
words imply that improving U H S is 
futile. H owever, the premise behind 
them, that undergraduate complaining 
is inevitable, is not valid. Rather, 
complaining is inevitable only if UHS 
continues to operate in a vacuum, 
isolated at the University's periphery. 


If undergraduates would address their 
complaints to UHS instead of to each 
other, and if UHS would step actively 
into the Yale community, a vital part 
of undergraduates' lives could be fully 
integrated. 

**Title: Defining the Crime**
**Author: Martha Brant**
**Page number(s): 23-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"I'm the wrong color and I'm too big to 
be a battered woman," Gladys Faulk 
told her lawyer after she was sentenced 
to two and a half years in prison on 
November 22. Faulk, a 5'9", 180 
pound black woman had killed her ex-
boyfriend. On the same day as Faulk's 
sentencing another 
New 
Haven 
woman, also 
black, 
committed a 
similar crime. Again on .Christmas 
day, a woman from Dixwell Avenue 
stabbed her ex-boyfriend. These three 
cases of assault within eight months are 
not purely coincidental. They illus-
trate, rather, that battered women 
often turn to violent solutions as a 
result of their inadequate protection by 
the law. 

By virtue of their actions, none of 
these women fit the classic image of the 
defenseless battered woman who is 
unable to fight back. Moreover, all 
three women were black and lower-
middle class. Faulk's situation was 
therefore not unique. Yet her deviation 
from more traditional stereotypes led 
to confusion at her trial, to a conflict 
between Faulk's status as a victim and 
her violent act. The prosecution and 
the defense created opposing images of 
Faulk, each substantiating their claims 
with different definitions of what it 
means to be a battered woman. 

Of the 10 years Faulk lived in New 
Haven and worked as a nurse at Yale-
New Haven Hospital, three of them 
were plagued by a man named Jackson 
Smith. After a six month romantic 
relationship with Smith in 1982, Faulk 
left him because of what she has 
described as his "irrational jealousy." 
Apparently, Smith would not agree to 
be just friends. For three years he 
persistently broke into her home, 
sexually and physically abused her, 
and harrassed her children. Faulk 
moved three times in the course of 
three years to escape Smith, but to no 
avail. On May 18, 1985, Faulk came 
home to find, once again, that Smith 
had broken in. Upon warning from 
her son that Smith was reaching for a 
knife, Faulk grabbed a kitchen knife 
and tried to call the police. In her at-
tempt to make him leave, a fight en-
sued and Faulk fatally injured Smith. 

Faulk was incarcerated the day of 
the incident. Almost immediately, a 
group of New Haven citizens led by 
Faulk's 
friends 
from 
the 
hospital 
formed the Defense Committee for 
Gladys Faulk. The unusual group met 
about once a month at the Dixwell 
Community House, 
a 
modern 
building which stands out 
m 
neighborhood of older, decaying 
tenement housing. The committee has 
raised $2000 bail in contributions from 
Yale-New Haven employees, enabling 
Faulk to get out of jail 10 days after she 
entered. They also organized a mass 
mailing throughout Connecticut which 
raised $1500 for general expenses. In 
order to provide for a good defense 
attorney as well as a child psychologist, 
they held a benefit for her at St. Paul's 
Episcopal Church which drew about 
100 people and raised S 1000. 

At their final meeting on the 
afternoon of November 
7, Jake 
Weinstein, a leading member of the 
committee, elaborated on the case. 
Weinstein, a man in his early thirties 
wearing hiking boots, a t-shirt, and 
jeans was one of the many personal 
friends of Faulk's who made up about 
half of the committee. The other half 
was composed of concerned citizens. 
As an unconventional young man, a 
middle aged black man with a heavy 
African accent, and a lively older 
woman entered the room, Weinstein 
said, "You know when Gladys was 
incarcerated in May she met a lot of 
women in jail for the same reason she 
was." Although the number of women 
who kill their abusers is unknown, 44 
out of 1000 women suffer abuse in 
domestic situations, according to the 
Connecticut Department of Human 
Resources. Moreover, many women in 
jail for murder have killed either their 
husband or their boyfriend. Weinstein 
was very familiar with battered women 
cases and was especially concerned 
with the related issue of police neglect 
of domestic violence. As he slouched 
over the table and clasped his hands, 
Weinstein noted, "She'd call the police, 
but when they came, if they came, 
usually he'd be gone. Of all the times 
Gladys called them, 
they never 
arrested him. This just escalated the 
violence." 

Weinstein and the other committee 
members' awareness reflects a growing 
national concern with cases of domestic 
violence and police negligence toward 
them. In one recent case, Tracey 
Thurman of Torrington, Connecticut 
won $2.3 million in compensatory 
damages from the city. She had been 
permanently disfigured and partially 
paralyzed by her estranged husband in 
1983, and the Court declared that the 
Torrington police deparment's "failure 
to act" on her reports of h'arassment 
and abuse were responsible. This case 
established a precedent that now holds 
the police liable for their inaction. 

Yet police apathy 
to domestic 
violence, as shown in Thurman's case, 
has still not significantly decreased . 
The 10 reports Faulk filed with the 
New Haven police, for instance, were 
entitled "Domestic" rather than 
"Assault." Police often do not view 
seriously the threat to the individual in 
domestic cases because the person 
knows the offender. Moreover, police 
frequently get hurt in these cases. 
Women 
can 
sometimes obtain 
Temporary Restraining Orders 
against their mates, but they are very 
rarely enforced. 
Occasionally the 
police actually find the offender and 
attempt to bring him to court, but 
usually the assailant fails to appear and 
the police merely issue a rearrest 
warrant. Often the warrant will not be 
pursued. The violator is very rarely 
punished, and without a deterrent 
from either the court or the police 
department, women have relatively 
little protection from repeated abuse. 

Police neglect of recurring 
incidents of violence happens at all 
levels of society and among all races. A 
19i7 case from Dansville, Michigan, 
which inspired the film The Burning Bed, 
awakened the nation to the helpless 
~ituation of abused women. The poor 
white 
woman 
cas,«; 
involved, 
Francine Hughes, 
was repeatedly 
abused by her husband. As in Faulk's 
case, .the. police could not act upon her 
calls because they had not witnessed 
an abusive incident. Hughes doused 
her bedroom with gasoline while her 
husband was asleep and set it ablaze. A 
more significant parallel between 
Hughes and Faulk is their shared 
economic status. Statistics hint that 
police do less to prevent domestic 
violence in lower-class neighborhoods 
because of their belief in pervasive 
violence among the poor. 

At the sentencing on November 22 
in a hot, overcrowded courtroom in the 
New Haven Superior Court, Faulk's 
case appeared to correspond to the 
Hughes case, but with several unique 
additions. Even before the sentencing 
began, Faulk revealed two different 
images of herself which both the 
prosecution and the defense would 
play upon. Initially, she looked proud 
and strong as she sat up straight in her 
purple velveteen blazer. While she and 
her supporters waited in the tense 
courtroom, Faulk appeared confident 
as many teary, 
nervous friends 
approached her. 
But when 
time for her case arrived, Faulk 
became jittery and glassy-eyed. The 




**The Gladys Faulk Case**
**Author: Martha Brant**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
prosecutor, Assistant State Attorney 
Mary Galvin, disrupted the display of 
support and began the proceedings by 
loudly proclaiming, "Gladys Faulk is 
not a battered woman." 

Peering through her round glasses, 
Galvin introduced the facts with an air 
of self-confidence and a slight tone of 
sarcasm, intending to destroy any 
image of Faulk as a weak and helpless 
abused woman. Galvin claimed that 
Faulk "has a prior criminal record for a 
felonious assault against her own sister 
in 1973, as well as two other incidents 
on her record. This is the fourth time 
she has appeared before a court." 

Galvin waved her hand about as she 
went on to e.stablish Faulk as a violent 
person and to dispel any initial sym-
pathy battered women usually receive: 
"Faulk's relationship with Smith was a 
tumultuous one with violence on both 
sides. Of all the police reports, only 
one recorded injuries, and those were 
to Smith. Faulk hit him over the head 
with a flower pot." Galvin's voice 
drowned out the murmuring in the 
court as she began to depict vividly 
Smith's injuries. "There were four stab 
wounds, not one. There was one on his 
~ight hand, clearly a defensive wound, 
and three on his back. Evidently these 
wounds were not inflicted in self-
defense," she pronounced. 

Galvin 
also 
meticulously 
emphasized the inconsistency of 
Faulk's testimony in police reports 
concerning the stabbing. "First she said 
it happened in the kitchen. Later she 
claimed it happened as he was 
leaving." _:rhen Galvin concluded just 
as abruptly as 
she had begun. 
"Although it may not have been 
premeditated murder, 
Faulk did 
intend to injure Smith. She poses a 
threat to the community and should be 
removed." With that she sat down with 
her back squarely facing the 
courtroom. 

The prosecutor had attempted to 
show that Faulk's history and the 
specifics of the case prove her to be a 
violent criminal rather than a 
vulnerable battered woman. But 
speaking next, Diane Polan, Faulk's 
defense attorney, began to transform 
Faulk's image into a diligent, caring 
woman who was frightened by the very 
real threat of an obsessed man. Unlike 
Galvin, Polan appeared more com-
fortable in court. She called on witness 
after witness to give their personal 
accounts of Faulk, in an effort to create 
a positive, sympathetic image. 

One witness, Doris Thorpe, a night 
nurse administrator at Yale-New 
Haven for 37 years and Faulk's im-
mediate supervi.sor for five years, 
assured the court of both Faulk's 
patience and her harrassment by 
Smith. Although Faulk worked a 
demanding midnight to eight a.m. 
shift with the sick, the aged, and 
undoubtedly some high-strung and 
impatient doctors, "she never once lost 
her temper and there have never been 
any complaints from hospital staff or 
patients about her," according to 
Thorpe. She went on to verify Faulk's 
abuse. "She had come to work one 
night with 5trangle marks on her throat 
and signs of being punched." When 
asked if Faulk was afraid of Smith, 
Thorpe immediately replied, as if 
insulted by such an obvious question, 
"Yes, definitely." 

Another friend of Faulk's, Julie 
Castella, a young woman whom Faulk 
had supported for a year because of a 
family problem, informed the court 
that despite the frustrations Faulk must 
encounter being a single mother of 
two, "I never once witnessed any 
violence toward the children. If they 
got into a fight, they talked it out." 

Others told of the numerous part-time 
jobs Faulk held in addition to her 
hospital job so she could send her 
14-year-old-daughter, 
Beatrice, 
to 
parochial school. Some mentioned the 
volunteer work Faulk did at the school 
her seven-year-old son Robert attends. 

An especially important witness, 
child psychologist Dr. Edward H. 
Futterman, emphasized Faulk's close 
relationship with her children and the 
impact her incarceration might have 
on them. "Beatrice is a highly depen-
dent girl who is almost pr,.otective of 
her mother," Futterman exclaimed. 
"She declared that she 'would just quit' 
if her mother 
were 
imprisoned." 

Futterman described 
Robert 
as 
"extremely vulnerable," and 
he 
mentioned that 
he had indicated 
suicidal tendencies. 

After letting the witnesses present a 
positive view of Faulk, Polan herself 
refuted 
the prosecutor's 
denial of 
Faulk's status as a battered woman. 
"Clearly this was a battering situation," 
Polan concluded. "Her inability to 
extricate herself from the situation she 
was in is a typical characteristic in all 
battered woman cases." · Then she 
reminded the judge, "incarceration is 
only justified if a person is a threat to 
the community or if the community 
demands retribution." 

Polan had 
attempted to show Faulk's qualities, 
that the community supported Faulk, 
and that not even Smith's relatives 
demanded retribution. According to 
Polan, Faulk's case didn't meet either 
of the qualifications for imprisonment. 

Superior Court judge Frank J. 
Kinney disagreed. Without even a


short break after the lengthy defense, 
he had made a decision. He let out a 
frustrated breath and said in a quiet 
voice which could easily be heard in 
the motionless room, "I'm not satisfied 
that this is a battered woman. Several 
facts are disturbing. She has support in 
the community, yet these witnesses are 
not relying on objective facts but on 
M rs. Faulk's version of what hap-
pened. I'm aware of the impact my 
decision may have on the children, and 
I 
regret it, but some period of 
impr isonment 
is necessary." He 
pronounced a sentence of two and a 
half years in jail followed by about 
eight years probation. 

The judge's voice was immediately 
muffied by commotion. Amidst all the 
movement and noise, however, one 
figure remained stationary: Robert, 
Faulk's wide-eyed son. His apparent 
state of shock and silent tears probably 
came not so much out of an under-
standing of what had happened and the 
impact it would have on him, but as a 
response to his sister's hysteria and his 
own fright at seeing adults in tears. 

Yet one dramatic courtroom scene 
may not be sufficient to explain all the 
ambiguities inherent in Faulk's case. 
Later, speaking with Polan at her 
office, am idst numerous plants and 
polit ical 
posters, 
more subtle 
complexities emerged. 

originally agreed to defend Faulk after 
Faulk's friends learned of the lawyer's 
reputation for representing battered 
women and requested her assistance. 
Polan, '73, Law '80, is one of four in 
New H aven's only all-women law firm, 
Levine and Polan, which she describes 
as "a politically progressive, feminist 
law office." As water leaked through 
the roof of her homey office above 
Charlie's Place, she addressed some of 
the prosecutor's statements and 
examined their implications. 

Polan initially elaborated on one of 
the 
most condemning arguments 
against Faulk: the felonious assault on 
her sister. Polan explained, "This 
assault was 12 years ago. She was 
visiting her sister in New Haven, and 
she lived in South Carolina. They were 
both drinking, and the sister accused 
her of flirting with her boyfriend, 
which 
wasn't true. There was a 
physical fight in which the sister was on 
top of Gladys, and G ladys picked up a 
bottle and cut her sister with it. She 
ended up pleading guilty not really 
understanding that there were conse-
quences." 

According to Polan, the seriousness 
of the charges against Faulk and the 
handling of the incident in 1973 are an 
example of "the class and race bias of 
the system." In 1973, if Faulk had been 
able to afford better counsel or if she 
had had the time to resolve the 
problem instead of returning to her job 
for fear oflosing it, she may have been 
able to get the charges against her 
reduced or dropped. If she were white, 
someone might have been sympathetjc 
and tried to protect her record, and she 
would not have pleaded guilty to the 
charge. In addition, Polan implied that 
many 
people even 
subconsciously 
stereotype blacks by associating them 
with 
low economic 
status, 
little 
education, and societal problems. She 
pointed out, "When the judge said 'I 
know about these love/hate relation-
ships,' I think he was expressing his 
own subconscious notions about the 
kind of relationships that go on among 
people who are poor and of a lower 
social class than he is. This association 
between black people and a violent 
way of living reflects race and class 
bias." 

Eight 
years 
ago Francine 
Hughes was acquitted on grounds of 
temporary insanity. Perhaps there was 
a sympathetic attitude toward this white 
woman that did not exist toward 
Faulk. 

The role of race and class in Faulk's 
case is subtle, and some will even deny 
that it exists. But the double standard 
in the court system concerning abused 
women is almost blatant. The justice 
system, all levels of it, has disregarded


the seriousness of domestic violence for 
a long time. Since the system doesn't 
prevent abuse from recurring, many 
women have no alternative but to 
handle the situation as best they can. 
But this leads to the danger of 
condemnation by our society and by the 
very system in which they sought 
refuge. 

Gladys Faulk defended 
herself against Jackson Smith by 
fighting back, leading the court to 
perceive the relationship as mutually 
violent. Because she resisted abuse, 
confusion arose over the definition of a 
"battered woman" in the Faulk case. 

Polan said, "I think that was the most 
pernicious part of what the prosecutor 
did: to get up and say this isn't a 
battered woman because she fought 
back, that the whole definition of 
battered is that you have to sit back 
and be a victim- if you fight back you 
are no longer a battered woman. If 
you're a victim and you act like a 
victim, you get a lot of sympathy- you 
might be dead, you might be in the 
hospital-but you get sympathy. I 
think the message is 'let the guy break 
your bones, end up in' the hospital, but 
if you fight back you're the one who's 
going to end up in jail, not him.' And I 
think its a real tragedy." 

Undoubtedly, it is unfortunate when 
anyone, but especially a ·mother of 
two, attempts to free herself from 
abuse and then serves time in jail for it. 
Yet, how much blame for the situation 
rests on the individual and how much 
on our society and its justice system? 

The Defense Committee for Gladys 
Faulk thinks they know the answer to 
this question. They feel Judge Kinney 
misinterpreted and overlooked many 
aspects of the case. The committee has 
distributed a 
letter throughout 
Connecticut asking for supporters to 
write Kinney in protest. For others, 
the answer lies in a belief or disbelief in 
the subtle biases and stereotypes of 
race, class, and gender within the 
judicial system. 


**Title: Milton, Poet of Duality**
**Author: R. A. Shoaf**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Books/David carpenter 
--~------~~----------------------~--~--~--------~~~ 
Paradise Interpreted 
by R. A. Shoaf 
Yale University Press, 1985 
225 pages, $17.00 
"It is the task of the critic to keep think-
ing open," R.A. Shoaf says. The Yale 
English professor intends both mean-
ings: a critic must think originally and 
yet avoid didacticism. Criticism, and 
especially something as non-limited as 
literary criticism, should pass through 
as many open doors as possible without 
closing any of them; it should pursue 
questioning without satiation. In his 
latest book, Milton, Poet of Duality, 
Shoaf transforms this easily forgotten 
ideal into an entire critical program. 


The book opens something as seeming· 
ly arcane and closed as Milton's 
Paradise Lost and proceeds to draw out 
not only many central problems of 
Milton scholarship, but also many cen-
tral questions of the nature and role of 
poetic rhetoric in general. His analysis 
draws on many contemporary strands 
of critical theory, and his style has the 
unique capacity to be both provocative 
and convincing. 


The subtitle of Shoafs book, "A 
Study of Semiosis in the Poetry and the 
Prose," is a good indication of the point 
from which Shoaf begins. Semiosis-
that is, signification, or more precisely, 
the process by which signification oc-
curs- is a byword among literary 
critics signalling a post-structuralist 
foray into "the text." To look at any 
narrative from the point of view of 
semiosis is to analyze it in its most 
basic function, to evaluate its ability to 
me4n anything at all. 


Shoafs book frames Milton's poetry 
as an analysis of semiosis in its own 
right, an analysis which highlights and 
dramatizes the various dimensions of 
rhetorical signification. Discussing the 
story of humanity's transgression in 
Eden as rendered by Milton, Shoaf 
makes much of the presence of the ap-
ple as a sign in the otherwise heavenly
landscape of the pre-fallen world. This 
becomes particularly meaningful as the 
"sign" is transfigured into a "sin" when 
Adam and Eve taste it, simultaneously 
incurring both their expulsion into the 
world and the replacement of the apple 
with the Son of God, otherwise known 
as the Word. Transgressing the sign, 
mankind falls into language and a con-
dition in need of redemption. Milton's 
saga of the Fall in this way becomes 
tied to problems of"fallen" rhetoric and 
linguistic signification. And this in 
turn leads back to both Milton's 
primary concern as a poet and Shoafs 
concern as a commentator on litera-
ture. Shoaf demonstrates 
from 
a 
literary perspective how Adam and 
Eve's salvation becomes essentially 
linked with the salvation of rhetoric. In 
the critic's treatment, as in the poet's 
rhetoric, the sign-become-sin is recog-
nized to be the legacy of the Fall. 


One interesting dimension of this 
argument is the way it brings together 
such disparate disciplines as Christian 
theology and literary criticism. Both 
the nature and the structure of this 
analysis seem to presume that the 
perennial problem of Western 
humanism- how to account for and 
deal with the gap between language 
and reality- is identical to a central 
tenet of Christian theology. Shoaf ex-
plores the status of rhetoric and the 
problem of its poetic usage in terms of 
transgression and redemption. In do-
ing this, he virtually aligns certain 
issues of modern literary criticism with 
Christian dogma. One might feel that 
this borders on either scholarly hubris 
or perhaps heresy. And yet the point is 
there in Paradise Lost, as Shoaf is able to 
show convincingly. At the very least, 
and to the credit of Shoafs critical 
powers, this argument makes Milton 
seem to have a knowledge of the 
dangers and capabilities of rhetoric 
three centuries ahead of its time. 


By touching many bases, by ad-
dressing everything from epistemology 
to morality and from narcissism to 
Dante, Shoaf goes beyond the inten-
tions of even 
the 
most modern 
criticism, which tends to qualify itself 
as merely "rhetorical" or "structural" 
analysis. This much will be already 
familiar to those who know Shoaf from 
his Yale English literature courses. 


Neither his professorial manner nor 
the substance of his discussions fit 
neatly within the usual parameters of 
literary study. He speaks with a preci-
sion and intensity too rarely en-
countered in classroom discussions. 


His analogies are wild and insightful, 
colored with everything from 
Elizabethan poetry to techniques of 
film editing or even to speech acquisi-
tion among infants. He is not averse to 
gesturing, sometimes extending his 
arms toward students or staring direct-
ly into the eyes of one in order to make 
a point almost embarrassingly per-
sonal, as if physically to lead those who 
are listening into the compelling syn-
thesis of his vision. 


The power of Shoafs analyses and 
the even tone of their development 
make it seem as if, regardless of the 
particular context of the given argu-
ment, something larger is always at 
stake. Implicit iri his academic vision 
is the belief that there is only one 
multi-dimensional 
realm 
of 
truth and knowledge that scholarship 
portends to address. One might sense a 
danger in this, a tendency to overlook 
specifics in the name of profundity. Yet 
Shoars intense style of literary analysis 
does not simply or irrevocably m ix 
.subjects better left apart and distinct. 
On the contrary, pedagogical humility 
and a refined sense of academic 
responsibility consistently check the 
otherwise exuberant drift of his 
argumentation. His questioning never 
loses control, even as momentum car-
ries it well beyond the traditional stric-
tures of interpretation. 


One principle behind Shoars ap-
proach to literature is his stated 
distaste for method. Method, he feels, 
is an unnecessary intrusion into the 
critical enterprise, 
which 
already 
stands in uneasy external relation to 
that which it concerns. The precol'l-
ceived notions of any "method," guidt. 
lines with which to approach a text, ar-
tificially constrain an interpretation to 
say certain things while disqualifying it 
from saying others. 


Dismissing 
method as a critical concern, Shoaf 
makes no pretense of providing a 
manifesto of literary theory. Yet, in 
turning to the text at hand, he pursues 
its meaning with an energy and an 
allegiance 
he terms "a constant 
reference and reverence for the text." 


In this way, Shoaf contributes to the 
field of literary theory, seemingly 
without trying or intending to at all. 


Shoaf strategically and literally uses 
the text's own words to reconstitute it 
in a critical fashion. Borrowing his 
critical vocabulary from the text at 
hand, he tends to blur the d istinction 
between author and reader, between 
the work and its critic. He believes that 
any text, in order to be complete, must 
be understood by someone in external 
relation to it. A text can only be mean-
ingful 
to 
the extenr that 
it 
is 
understood by its readers. 


Every 
reading is therefore a criticism and an 
integral part of the text itself. Shoaf 
begins by criticizing method and yet 
finally implies that some sort of 
method- if orily that of merely com-
prehending- is 
inevitable, 
even 
necessary. 


Why does Shoaf take on such an en-
trenched literary figure as Milton, the 
patriarchal Goliath of English letters? 
There is an answer, perhaps, in the 
fact that something as intransient and 
accessible as theology firmly grounds 
Milton's poetic rhetoric. The Puritan 
poet, himself somewhat of a peda-
gogue, drew only thin d istinctions be-
tween his art and his faith. He allowed 
his poetry to infect his religion and vice 
versa. Because Milton's dual concern 
with art and belief resembles that of the 
literary critic, whose textual analysis 
inhabits the middle realm precisely 
between text and analysis, Shoaf can 
assume a secular equivalent of M ilton's 
Christian piety, a literary faith prox-
imate to the poet's own. By manipu-
lating these 
hidden 
interrelations, 
Shoaf pulls Milton's theological 
rhetoric into the arena of literary 
criticism, a broader context than that 
of religious poetry. He then proceeds 
with his argument into a more or less 
undefined field of humanistic scholar-
ship. 


Shoaf clearly finds much in Milton's 
narrative that 
goes 
beyond both 
theology and literature. In this realm 
of the critical beyond, the boundaries 
and distinctions between one thing and 
another become provocatively unclear, 
and Shoafs argument strains at the 
limits of his scholarly craft. Shoaf then 
is able to read Paradise Lost and other of 
Milton's related works as a parable of 
signification in which ev~y reader has 
a vital stake. With Milton, Shoaf wants 
the reader to feel not only the full 
.weight of a Puritan's severe assessment. 
of humanity but also the persistent 
faith of a theologian. Furthermore, he 
would have us face the peculiar respon-
. sibility which is the poet in us all. 


The question as to how Shoaf can 
possibly bring all this to bear without 
being heavy-handed and transgressing 
his own stated intention to "keep think-
ing open" leads to the central problem 
this book presents: does one finally 
ascribe the argument of Milton, Poet of 
Duality to Milton or to Shoaf? Its basic 
components are ·a set of theological-
poetic principles, the modern abstrac-
tions into and through which they are 
drawn, and a particularly agile critical 
ability. But is it the Puritan's or the 
critic's conclusions that finally win out? 


Shoafs firm answer is that neither one 
nor the other should or even can be 
considered exclusive. His own argu-
ment has two distinct and initially in-
compatible poles: Milton's theology 
and the secular analysis of a literary 
critic. At times an overpowering 
Christian rhetoric pervades the book, 
though Shoaf explains this infusion of 
religious terminology as strategic: it 
reflects the inevitable consideration


**Review: Milton, Poet of Duality**
**Author: David Carpenter**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
any reader must make for the "intend-
ed" and "prophetic" Christian essence 
of Milton's poetry. This rhetoric also 
reflects Shoafs interest in the tension 
and pull between a Christian poetics 
and the secular, critical stance through 
which it is approached. 

Shoafs ability to forge a cre.ative 
synthesis between the text and its inter-
pretation, by allowing the two to 
merge, is the central and perhaps con-
troversial innovation of Shoafs work as 
a scholar and critic. In Milton, Poet of 
Dtudity, there remains little or no dif-
ference between the theological and the 
secular, the prophetic and the critical; 
Shoaf allows the two poles mutually to 
influence each other and then finally to 
merge together. Thus, it is difficult 
finally to pin down the source of many 
of the claims of the argument. The 
rhetoric is the poet's but it is in turn 
assumed 
by the critic, 
who 
manipulates it while attempting to do 
as little interpretive violence as possi-
ble to the original text. 

However, this light critical treading 
which preserves the poet's rhetoric is 
not merely a passive repetition of 
Milton's 17th century moralism. On 
the contrary, Shoafs argument is in-
formed by all the critical and 
philosophical insight of the centuries 
which proceed Milton. Milton, Poet of 
Duality is not so much a radical reinter-
pretation of the Western canon as a 
more agile construction of one of its 
details. And this is precisely the value 
of Shoafs work as a critic and scholar, 
taking up our literary heritage not to 
polemicize on the impossibility of 
meaning _or in 
reaction to such 
polemics, but rather to consolidate our 
modern perspective and move on, to a 
new style of analysis if necessary. With 
such precedents as this, it seems that 
criticism is now beginning to under-
take the program which Milton in-
stituted three centuries ago, as Shoaf 
puts it, "seeking not the bizarre for its 
own sake but the mysterious articula-
tions of the unities of the plenitude." 

• 

David Carpenter is a senior in Silliman.


**Untitle Poem**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 32**

Beginning thfs week, 
to ask you to make a pi 
pledged on an annual 
our Class's 25th reunion 

