Publication date: NOV 2021
Volume: 54
Issue number: 2

**MASTHEAD:**
- Editors-In-Chief: Alexandra Galloway, Zachary Groz
- Executive Editor: Jack Delaney
- Managing Editor: Eli Mennerick
- Associate Editors: Nicole Dirks, Jesse Goodman, Rose Horowitch, Caroleine James, Noa Rosinplotz, Dereen Shirnekhi, Will Sutherland, JD Wright, Katherine Yao
- Senior Editors: Beasie Goddu, Madison Hahamy
- Copy Editors: Meg Buzbee, Jabez Choi, Anna Fleming, Lucy Gilchrist, Ella Goldblum, Ella Pearlman-Chang, Kaylee Walsh
- Creative Director: Annli Nakayama
- Design Editors: Savannah Crichton, Ada Griffin, Ally Soong
- Photography Editor: Lukas Flippo
- Business Manager: Sherry Chen
- Members and Directors: Emily Bazelon, Peter Cooper, Jonathan Dach, Kathrin Lassila, Eric Rutkow, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, Fred Strebeigh, Aliyya Swaby
- Advisors: Neela Banerjee, Richard Bradley, Susan Braudy, Lincoln Caplan, Jay Carney, Andy Court, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Susan Dominus, David Greenberg, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Laura Pappano, Jennifer Pitts, Julia Preston, Lauren Rawbin, David Slifka, John Swansburg, Anya Kamenetz, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Nicole Allan, Margaret Bauer, Mark Badger and Laura Heymann, Susan Braudy, Julia Calagiovanni, Elisha Cooper, Haley Cohen, Peter Cooper, Andy Court, The Elizabethan Club, Leslie Dach, David Freeman and Judith Gingold, Paul Haigney and Tracey Roberts, Bob Lamm, James Liberman, Alka Mansukhani, Benjamin Mueller, Sophia Nguyen, Valerie Nierenberg, Morris Panner, Jennifer Pitts, R. Anthony Reese, Eric Rutkow, Lainie Rutkow, Laura Saavedra and David Buckley, Anne-Marie Slaughter, Elizabeth Sledge, Caroline Smith, Gabriel Snyder, Elizabeth Steig, Aliyya Swaby, John Jeremiah Sullivan, Daphne and David Sydney, Kristian and Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Townsend Wilson, Daniel Yergin, William Yuen


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- LABOR AT THE LIBRARY - Avery Mitchell
- GO AHEAD, YALE. TRY TO TAKE MY HEDGEHOG AWAY. - Jack McCordick
- SEX IN THE STACKS - Meg Buzbee
- SOMEBODY HELP! I HAVE COVID AND I'M STANDING ALONE OUTSIDE MAISON MATHIS - Jabez Choi
- DEAD ON IMPACT - Jesse Goodman
- NIGHT LIFE - Alex Rocha-Alvarez
- WHEN A VIRUS CALLS - J. D. Wright
- FILLING IN THE BLANKS - John Nguyen
- BARBED-WIRE BALLET - Elena Unger
- PACEBREAKER - Hailey Andrews
- AFTER THE SURPRISE PARTY - Will Sutherland
- MY BEST FRIEND LIKES TO SLEEP IN THE DARK - Michaela Wang
- CRYING IN THE L-DUB SHOWERS - Miranda Jeyaretnam
- MEW HAVEN CAT CAFE - Abigail Dixon
- LEITNER HOUSE RITUAL - Idone Rhodes
- BOSTON BOUND - Yonatan Greenberg
- CODING COMBAT -  


**Title: LABOR AT THE LIBRARY**
**Author: Avery Mitchell**
**Page number(s): 3, 4**

In late September, Yale’s clerical and technical workers won a new 
labor contract. But Yale continues to subcontract much of its library 
work to non-union workers.


**Title: GO AHEAD, YALE. TRY TO TAKE MY HEDGEHOG AWAY.**
**Author: Jack McCordick**
**Page number(s): 6**

Yale prohibits pets in dorms, but that hasn’t stopped some students.


**Title: SEX IN THE STACKS**
**Author: Meg Buzbee**

Some students go to Sterling Memorial Library’s stacks to study. 
Others, not so much.


**Title: SOMEBODY HELP! I HAVE COVID AND I'M STANDING ALONE OUTSIDE MAISON MATHIS**
**Author: Jabez Choi**
**Page number(s): 8**

What happens when you test positive for COVID-19 at Yale.


**Title: DEAD ON IMPACT**
**Author: Jesse Goodman**
**Page number(s): 12**



**Title: NIGHT LIFE**
**Author: Alex Rocha-Alvarez**
**Page number(s): 16**



**Title: WHEN A VIRUS CALLS**
**Author: J. D. Wright**
**Page number(s): 19**



**Title: FILLING IN THE BLANKS**
**Author: John Nguyen**
**Page number(s): 21**



**Title: BARBED-WIRE BALLET**
**Author: Elena Unger**
**Page number(s): 26**



**Title: PACEBREAKER**
**Author: Hailey Andrews**
**Page number(s): 31**



**Title: AFTER THE SURPRISE PARTY**
**Author: Will Sutherland**
**Page number(s): 33**



**Title: MY BEST FRIEND LIKES TO SLEEP IN THE DARK**
**Author: Michaela Wang**


**Title: CRYING IN THE L-DUB SHOWERS**
**Author: Miranda Jeyaretnam**
**Page number(s): 17**


**Title: MEW HAVEN CAT CAFE**
**Author: Abigail Dixon**


**Title: LEITNER HOUSE RITUAL**
**Author: Idone Rhodes**
**Page number(s): 32**


**Title: BOSTON BOUND**
**Author: Yonatan Greenberg**
**Page number(s): 34**


**Title: CODING COMBAT**
**Author:** 



**Title: THE NEW JOURNAL**
**Author: Avery Mitchell**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 4
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
Knock knock. A winter chill leaks through the win­
dow of her Berkeley single, and she tightens her 
blanket burrito like a tourniquet. Instinctively, she 
reaches for Fat Louie, her black and white “cow” cat 
(who doubles as a portable furnace). He isn’t on the 
bed. She turns over. Through sleep-bleared eyes, she 
sees Louie sitting at the foot of her bedroom door, 
expecting company. 
“Facilities!” shouts a gruff voice from the hallway. 
She leaps to her feet. She hears the hand on the 
knob, the key in the lock. Almost out of time. She 
tries to shepherd Fat Louie into his carrier. He refuses 
to go in. What to do...
“Ah—don’t come in! I’m in bed!”
The hand falters, then extracts its key. The inspec­
tor shuffles away to screen another room. This 
Berkeley senior lives to cohabit with her secret pet 
for another day. 

As it turns out, she isn’t the only one hiding pets 
on campus. A clandestine menagerie exists behind 
the suite doors of Yale’s fourteen residential colleges, 
even though it violates the University’s housing reg­
ulations: “Pets are not permitted in Yale Housing.” 
Rulebreakers may be punished with “termination of 
the housing agreement.”
My pet-owning sources were not alarmed when 
I reminded them of this rule. They shouldered their 
violations willingly, almost nonchalantly. “There 
wasn’t really much ‘hiding’ to do,” admitted the 
Berkeley cat concealer. “No questionable encoun­
ters,” said the Hopper hedgehog smuggler. “We just 
put him in the closet sometimes,” claimed my fish-fa­
voring Trumbullian neighbors. 

The day-to-day duties of the secret pet owners on 
Yale’s campus are at once a burden and a gift. Feed­
ing, bathing, and exercising can be chores or wel­
come reprieves. 

One Hopper senior, who had received a hedgehog 
as a surprise birthday present during the pandemic, 
admitted, “she’s a double-edged sword.” The owner 
and her suitemates were unable to use their shared 
bathroom for her weekly baths, so they made do with 
a halloween candy bowl. The hedgehog was also 
an avid explorer, often escaping her cage to eat the 
grime under the couch and scamper down the hall­
way beyond the common room. “Hedgehogs move 
surprisingly fast!” the Hopper source said, “and they 
poop A LOT. She would often poop on my blan­
kets.”

On tough days, however, the chaos could be com­
forting. The hedgehog was a “constant presence” for 
her owner. Prickles and flightiness aside, hedgehogs 
don’t hold grudges. And when application season 
gets overwhelming, it’s important to have someone 
to hold. 

Fat Louie, too, became a pillar of his owner’s com­
munity during the pandemic. Last spring, she ran into 
a classmate sitting on the steps of Sterling, about to 
burst into tears. Instinctively, she invited her over to 
visit Fat Louie. “Even though she claimed she ‘wasn’t 
really a cat person,’ she ended up not wanting to 
leave,” the owner shared. The visitor wouldn’t let the 
cat go, petting the pain away. “She stayed through 
breakfast, lunch, and dinner, and definitely left as a 
cat person.” 

Go ahead, Yale. 
Try to take my 
hedgehog away.
by Avery Mitchell
Yale prohibits pets in dorms, but that 
hasn’t stopped some students. 


NOVEMBER 2021
 5
According to my freshman-year neighbors in 
Bingham, Marvin the goldfish was a welcome dis­
traction from the academic grind. The suitemates 
described cleaning Marvin’s bowl as “a grounding 
ritual,” and “a good part of Yale.” The bowl was a 
one-gallon bear-shaped animal cracker jar, housing 
a flea-market statuette of a Grecian Madonna and 
a floor of blue rocks. Marvin was a bright spot in 
Bingham. His owners characterized their fish as an 
“instant celebrity,” drawing an “endless rotating cast 
of friends.”

The Pandemic Exodus of March 2020 displaced 
Marvin from his beloved Yale. He ended up hitch­
ing a ride to Manhattan on Metro North in a water 
bottle. His new home: a mason jar on the kitchen 
counter. He survived the turbulent journey, but the 
worst was yet to come. On March 15th, Dean Chun 
announced that Yale College students would not be 
returning to campus for the remainder of the aca­
demic year; that morning, Marvin’s owner walked 
into the kitchen and found him dead.

—
I, too, have experienced the joy of pet cohabita­
tion at Yale. Last Saturday, I was supposed to go to 
a party, but I’d had a rough, unproductive day. I was 
suffering from the kind of high-pressure headache 
that only comes after staring at screens, avoiding 
sunlight, and eating junk food all day. I wasn’t in the 
mood to do anything. 

But then my roommate texted: “My friend is insane 
and she wants to bring a dog to the apartment. Could 
you look after him tonight?”

Little did she know, she’d fixed my whole day. 
Archie the Ginger Doodle waddled around my room, 
a melon-sized bundle of red, bouncy curls, two end­
lessly surprised eyes, and a little wet nose. He con­
templated his reflection in the mirror, sniffed my tea, 
embraced my upset tummy, and sat on my lap while I 
worked through the night. I FaceTimed some friends 
I hadn’t talked to in a while to show them how well 
Archie matched my furniture. Starved for physical 
touch in a pandemic world, I cuddled him all eve­
ning. 

My day as Archie’s stand-in-owner reminded me 
of the pet contact I’ve been missing from home. 
Ollie, my oversized goldendoodle, is a snuggler. The 
pandemic was heaven to him—he had his whole pack 
under one roof, five people to loop around like a furry 
snake. When I squeezed between my two younger 
sisters to watch TV each night, Ollie lay over us like 
a weighted, heated blanket. 

Yale, in contrast, feels like an open expanse, filled 
with the freedom and individualism I craved while 
locked inside. But it’s easy to forget how lonely lib­
erty can be. Living off-campus without a meal plan, 
I’m hard-pressed to even get a visitor. Hugs, kisses, 
and cuddles? My tally is alarmingly low. And when 
the deadlines start to stack up and sleep becomes a 
rarity, physical contact is a lifeline. 

These animals seem to make life at Yale a whole 
lot easier. “Most definitely, he improved my expe­
rience 1,000%,” said the Berkeley senior and owner 
of Fat Louie. Marvin’s shepherds cited his constancy 
as a contributor to their sense of home at Yale. The 
Hopper hedgehog handler said the same about her 
pet. Has our year at home, disconnected from Yale 
and forced to rely on our pets and family, taught us 
something essential about what we need to feel like 
real people, especially in crisis? For these Yalies, the 
answer is “yes,” and they’ve taken matters into their 
own hands.
Avery Mitchell is a junior in Trumbull College.
ART & DESIGN BY SAVANNAH CRICHTON


**Title: DEAD**
**Author: Meg Buzbee**
**Page number(s): 6**

 6
T
he white-throated sparrow, thousands of miles 
from northern Mexico where it began its spring 
migration, surveys New Haven from the air, 
flying over Prospect Street and then landing in a 
tree on Hillhouse. When it takes off, on track for 
its breeding ground in Canada, the sparrow, flying 
north at 20 miles per hour, slams directly into the 
glass windows of Evans Hall. It falls to the ground 
with a thunk.

On Sunday, September 25, Viveca Morris found 
and collected twelve dead birds from the ground 
outside Evans Hall, the center of the Yale School of 
Management. Wearing gloves, she carefully placed 
each bird in a Ziploc bag, along with a map marking 
where it had been found. “I really love birds,” said 
Morris. “It’s a little bit of a macabre hobby.” 

Morris visits Evans Hall several times a week to 
gather the birds that have died after colliding with 
its windows. She first noticed the problem when she 
was a student at SOM. Sitting in class, she and her 
classmates watched birds hit the iconic glass facade 
of Evans Hall and fall to the ground. In the winter, 
there might only be a few per week, but in the fall 
and spring, dead birds materialized almost every day. 

Although bird-window collisions are a common 
problem in cities, the architecture of Evans Hall is 
uniquely harmful to birds, thanks to the huge win­
dows wrapping around the building. An astounding 
2.25 million pounds of glass were used in its con­
struction. From one side of the building, the sky on 
the other side is visible through multiple layers of 
glass, which confuses the birds. A less obvious cul­
prit, however, is the abundant vegetation in the back 
of the building. At first glance, the secluded area, 
filled with perennial plants, seems to be a haven for 
wildlife, shielding them from humans and cars. But 
when birds flock there to feed and rest, they have 
trouble finding their way out. The glass facade looms 
over them, largely made invisible by the reflection 
of the trees and sky. As they try to leave, many head 
directly toward the reflection, where they collide 
with the window and die. 

From a young age, Morris loved animals, but she 
became increasingly invested in animal rights after 
learning about factory farming in high school. At 
Yale Law School, where she now works as an associ­
ate research scholar, Morris founded the Law Ethics 
and Animal Program (LEAP), a “think and do tank 
for animal protection,” as she calls it. In 2017, Morris 
began working on a report about Evans Hall that 
she would later publish in 2019. With the help of a 
few graduate students and Yale facilities personnel, 
Morris monitored the building daily and collected 
fallen birds. She delivered them to Kristof Zyskow­
ski, a scientist and collections manager at the Yale 
Peabody Museum, who then entered them into the 
University’s permanent collection. 

Zyskowski describes himself as a “systematizer.” 
“I’m really interested in assigning things to catego­
ries and finding patterns,” he says. Since 2017, over 



**Title: 300 Birds**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
NOVEMBER 2021
 7
300 birds have been collected. The majority now 
rest at the Environmental Science Center on Sachem 
Street. 

Morris delivers her Ziploc bags of birds in a cooler 
to the Environmental Science Center. Zyskowski 
then stores the birds in a larger cooler for a few days, 
next to various other found animals, before he or one 
of his research assistants has time to remove the inner 
carcass, preserving it separately from the outer skin 
and feathers. In death, the birds lose none of their 
color. Many have yellow or orange chest feathers 
that stand out against the grey filing cabinet. Laid 
on their back or on their side, their thin claws rest 
gently in the air. Preserved so artfully by Zyskowski 
and many others, it’s easy to forget the violence of 
their death. Not all birds make it into the permanent 
collection. Zyskowski described one bird whose head 
was consumed by ants after hitting the Yale Science 
Building, leaving just its skull behind. 

“Your little brown bird that’s normally seen as 
unremarkable…when you’re looking at it up close, 
it’s hard not to think that this is just an incredibly 
beautiful and remarkable animal,” Morris says. “What 
a shame to lose it, unnecessarily.”

Morris maintains regular contact with facilities 
staff at the Yale School of Management. In spring 
2021, facilities put up window film on one part of 
the back facade, per the recommendation in her 
report. These window films, a sort of half-transpar­
ent wallpaper with periodic opaque dots, are one of 
the most popular bird-friendly adaptations available 
to buildings. The opaque sections of the wallpaper 
are visible to most birds and signal to them that 
there’s a structure they need to avoid. Other solu­
tions include covering the whole building in a taut 
netting the birds can see, or replacing glass with 
some other material. Window films, however, are 
generally considered the most cost-effective and 
discreet option. 

According to Jill McSorley, director of facilities 
operations at the Yale School of Management, it 
would cost 500,000 dollars every ten years to cover 
the glass in these bird-deterring window treatments. 
The facilities team is in the process of ordering more 
sample decals for the back windows, but have no 
plans yet to cover the whole facade. 

On a Wednesday afternoon in September, Zys­
kowski walked up to the Yale Science Building to 
check on a bird he had noticed that morning. The 
bird had been lying still, near a bush, directly under 
a wide patch of glass. When he went back in the 
afternoon, however, the bird was gone. “Maybe it 
flew away,” he said. Sometimes that happens; the 
birds are momentarily stunned, and later able to get 
up and finish their migration. Most aren’t so lucky. 
Meg Buzbee is a sophomore in Pierson College and a 
Copy Editor of the New Journal.
DESIGN BY ANNLI NAKAYAMA


**Title: SEX in the STACKS**
**Author: Hailey Andrews**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

 8
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
I
’m sentimental. I like to collect things. I 
take shells from the beach. I have every 
bus pass from high school saved, their 
weary magnetic stripes and all. As a first-se­
mester senior, my daily excursions into New 
Haven are constantly intruded upon by the 
emerging nostalgia I feel for places I am on the 
cusp of leaving. Once annoyed by the weekly 
email advertising Brick Oven’s Sunday Special 
in searing and enlarged Helvetica, I recently 
felt a wave of panic that I had yet to try their 
fifty percent off Large One-Topping Pizza. 
My time is running out. What about apple 
picking? A trip to Lighthouse Point? Or, sex 
in the stacks?

Having sex in the stacks of Sterling Memo­
rial Library has long been a canonical bucket 
list item for Yalies, an “almost mythical” albeit 
“known” thing Yalies do, according to Jasper*, 
a senior who was recommended the excursion 
during their first year. The opportunity pre­
sented itself spontaneously during a Grindr 
date, and Jasper thought, “Why not do it?” 
For Calvin*, a graduate from the class of 
2018, the experience was diligently pre-
planned. Calvin visited the library in the days 
before to get a sense of which floors were less 
frequented, and decided on a time when most 
other students were attending classes. “My 
partner and I wanted to experiment with pub­
lic sex, and the stacks seemed like the most 
obvious choice.” 

Of course, sex in the library is not an expe­
rience exclusive to Yale by any means. Yale, 
however, does have a particularly rich history 
around the public exploration of sexuality. 
Throughout the nineteen seventies, the Yale 
Law School Film Society screened porn reg­
ularly out of  lecture halls in the Sterling Law 
Building. Porn n’ Chicken, a club formed in 
1999 that gathered once a week to eat Popeyes 
and watch porn together, garnered significant 
media attention when the group began post­
ing flyers around campus soliciting auditions 
for The StaXXX, a pornographic film starring 
Yale students. Shortly after, club members 
alleged that filming was underway. 

After the club was profiled in the New Yorker 
and Time magazine, the status of the film was 
called into question. James Ponsoldt ’01, one 
of Porn n’ Chicken’s founders, claimed in the 
article “Porn n’ Chicken,” published in the 
Yale Daily News in 2002, that footage for the 
film had been shot in Sterling, but the scenes 
were ultimately destroyed after one of the par­
ticipants withdrew from the project. The film 
never came to fruition, though Ponsoldt sold 
the rights to the story to Comedy Central the 
year following his graduation in 2002. 

That same year, the first Sex Week was 
organized by Eric Rubenstein ’04 and Jacque­
line Farber ’03 with the intention of encourag­
ing conversations around sexuality on campus. 
Rubenstein and Farber recruited ​a range of 
speakers for a series of panels on sex and inti­
macy, including clergy members, academics, 
sex therapists, and adult film stars. In 2011, the 
Yale administration denied use of Yale’s name, 
campus resources, and corporate sponsorship 
for Sex Week, after facing criticism from stu­


 9
dent groups and faculty. In the years since, Sex 
Week has resurfaced periodically, but without 
the same vigor and support as when Trojan was 
a corporate sponsor. Other campus organizing 
around sex has become more covert; current 
Yale students may be added to the orgy pan­
list, via which an anonymous group of students 
coordinates orgies throughout the year. 

What, then, about the stacks makes it a sta­
ple location for Yalies’ sexual escapades? The 
appeal is in part linked to the prestige, serious­
ness, and modesty of Sterling, and the comi­
cal intrusion of sex into that space. Modeled 
as an “ecclesiastical metaphor” in the words 
of architectural historian Margaret M. Gru­
biak, the space is fitted with a vaulted nave, 
stained glass, and an altarpiece mural greet­
ing every student as they venture into the 
stacks. The stacks themselves are of course 
less ornate: rows of library-bound books in 
uniform demure shades, patches of stippled 
light and dark, and a general cold aura from 
the white brick and tawny shelving. “Would 
I? Definitely,” one anonymous student wrote. 
“Maybe it’s the English major in me, but doing 
something illicit in a hallowed space of schol­
arship is pretty hot. To be fair though, Starr 
would be much more picturesque.”

The experience is not just alluring because it 
is illicit. It’s also democratic. 

“I feel like sex in the stacks definitely ranks 
among the top three most hyped sexualized 
(or at least nude) experiences on campus, 
along with naked parties and the orgy email 
list,” Calvin wrote to me.  “It is a bit unique, 
though, in that it doesn't require knowing a 
particular person to get invited like the other 
two. Thus, it's certainly the most accessible, 
and also the most private (assuming you don't 
get caught!).”

Reviews on the quality of the experience are 
varied. For Jasper, the novelty of the experi­
ence exceeded the quality of the sex itself. Still, 
they are glad to have had the opportunity, and 
they find the tradition amusing, having “seen 
some things” during their campus job in the 
library. “It is definitely full circle.” They paused 
to laugh. “From participant to spectator…I’m 
a voyeur!” 

Speaking to Jasper made me wonder where I 
fell in the cycle. Would I be content to gradu­
ate without partaking? Likely not. The candor, 
humor, and sentimentality with which students 
spoke of their sexual experiences exemplified 
some of the best qualities of Yale’s sexual cul­
ture. According to Jasper, it’s part and par­
cel of Yale as a generally “very sex-centered, 
sex-positive place,” which is perhaps why this 
aspect of the Yale experience persists in the 
student body’s cultural memory. It would be a 
shame, I realized, to graduate without my own 
excursion among the carrels and the rows of 
deserted carts, to leave the fluorescent lights 
buzzing over nothing but dust and cellulose 
rot. 
*All names marked with an asterisk are pseudonyms.

Hailey Andrews is a senior in Pierson College and 
a former Managing Editor of The New Journal.



**Title: Labor at the Library.**
**Author: Jack McCordick**
**Page number(s): 11-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
PHOTOGRAPHS BY LUKAS FLIPPO 
DESIGN BY ANNLI NAKAYAMA
“I 
hope 
they 
hear 
me,” 
shouted 
former 
New 
Haven 
alderwoman 
and longtime Beinecke Library 
employee Dolores Colon ’91. 
She gestured behind her to the 
colonnaded façade of the new­
ly-renamed Schwarzman Center, 
where Yale President Peter Salovey 
was busy emceeing the kickoff of 
Yale’s seven billion dollar “For 
Humanity” 
capital 
campaign, 
the largest in its history. Colon’s 
voice, amplified by microphone, 
echoed across the intersection of 
Prospect and Grove: “It’s time for 
the leaders of Yale to respect their 
workers, and to respect their com­
munity.” The crowd—a two hun­
dred-strong mix of Yale workers, 
students, community organizers 
and local politicians—whooped 
and hollered. 

Colon was the penultimate 
speaker at the October 2nd event, 
a rally held by New Haven Rising, 
a community organization formed 
in the wake of the 2008 finan­
cial crisis to combat state budget 
austerity and the evaporation of 
good jobs. That the event over­
lapped with Yale’s capital cam­
paign kickoff was no coincidence. 
At the rally, attendees brandished 
signs with the question “What 
should Yale be for?”—a direct 
response to the administration’s 
email announcing the fundrais­
ing bonanza, which had asked its 
recipients, “What are you for?”  
The mood on Prospect Street, 
where upbeat music and danc­
ing alternated with remonstra­
tive chanting and searing jere­
miads, was by turns euphoric and 
indignant. For Locals 34 and 35 
UNITE HERE, the unions rep­
resenting the university cleri­
cal and technical (C&T) workers 
and service workers, respectively, 
there was much to celebrate. 
Earlier that week, Yale and the 
unions announced that they had 
reached a tentative agreement for 
five-year contracts that included 
unprecedented job security pro­
visions and created a pipeline that 
would give New Haven residents 
an additional forty jobs per year, 
half of which would be full-time 
positions with union wages and 
benefits.

The contracts, which were rat­
ified by both unions on October 
20th, capped an acrimonious six­
teen months of negotiations. At 
a New Haven Rising rally at the 
same intersection in early May, 
Local 35 Chief Steward and New 
Haven Board of Alders President 
Tyisha Walker-Myers had given 
the University a stern ultimatum: 
“Either [Yale] deliver[s] fair con­
tracts, or we’re gonna shut this 
city down.” Given the unions’ 
power on the Board of Alders—
since 2011, pro-labor candidates 
have dominated the city’s legis­
lative body—this was no empty 
threat.

Yet many of the speakers that 
October 
afternoon 
painted 
a 
darker portrait of the state of the 
city, still reeling from the effects 
of the pandemic, where a quarter 
of residents live below the pov­
erty line and one in three adults 
in its lowest income neighbor­
hoods routinely goes hungry. 
Nearly every speech connected 
New Haven’s chronically under­
funded schools and threadbare 
social services to the $157 million 
tax break New Haven bestows 
upon the University and Yale 
New Haven Hospital. Many also 
castigated Yale for failing to ful­
fill its 2015 agreement to hire a 
thousand New Haven residents 
into full-time, permanent jobs, 
with half of those hired coming 
from “neighborhoods of need.” 
The deadline for that hiring com­
mitment—which Yale agreed to 
only after city organizers held its 
feet to the fire—came and went in 
April 2019. While Yale says that it 
fulfilled its promises, New Haven 
Rising organizers argue that the 
university intentionally inflated 
its job numbers by including 
temporary postdoctoral associ­
ates and journeyman construction 
workers. “We need better hiring 
opportunities right now,” Remidy 
Shareef, an organizer with Ice the 
Beef, a local youth organization 
working to stop gun violence, 
told the crowd. “If Yale treats the 
community with this little regard, 
how do donors believe that a 
donation to Yale is a donation to 
humanity?” Shareef said, referenc­
ing the title of Yale’s capital cam­
paign. Yale, speaker after speaker 
insisted, needed to step up. 

Colon echoed these arguments 
at the October rally, but she had 
also come to Prospect and Grove 
to raise a more specific issue. In 
2019, 
Beinecke 
administrators 
had initiated a plan to start sub­
contracting some of the library’s 
cataloguing and processing work 
instead of hiring union employees 
to do it, she told the crowd. “Our 
collections are being loaded onto 
trucks and being shipped to Penn­
sylvania, where they are being 
processed by workers hired for as




**Title: Yale's Labor History: A Quarter-Century of Struggle**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 13-14**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
NOVEMBER 2021
 13
little as thirteen dollars and fifty 
cents,” Colon said, her last few 
words drowned out by boos and 
jeers. “I can’t believe it either,” she 
pressed on, shaking her head. “It’s 
a lot less than what Amazon ware­
house workers make per hour. It’s 
just shameful.”

In its recent history, Yale has 
been no stranger to subcontract­
ing, a labor practice in which a 
company hires an outside firm 
instead of directly employing 
workers itself. Yale’s insistence 
on its right to subcontract was the 
central issue of the 1996 contract 
negotiations, which culminated 
in two bitter monthlong strikes. 
In the midst of those negotia­
tions, American historian Robin 
D.G. Kelley wrote that univer­
sity subcontracting “has been part 
of a larger corporate strategy to 
reduce wages and benefits and to 
bring in casualized, temporary 
nonunion labor”—a strategy, he 
argued, which let “the adminis­
tration off the hook by rendering 
even more invisible the exploita­
tion of labor at the university.” A 
quarter-century later, Colon was 
there to make sure no one would 
look away.

“People in New Haven neigh­
borhoods know that if they do get 
a job here and get a foot in the 
door, they can have good benefits 
for their children and themselves,” 
she said. As a single mother with 
two young children, Colon was 
speaking from personal experi­
ence; she couldn’t make ends meet 
until she began working at Yale. 
“Instead of shipping jobs out of 
state, Yale should be honoring 
their commitments to hire from 
neighborhoods of need into good 
jobs,” she said. “Will they con­
tinue to spend millions on out-
of-state firms? Or will they invest 
money in their own community, 
here in New Haven?” 

—
The morning after the rally, I 
drove twenty minutes south of 
Yale to Ocean Avenue, a wind­
ing street that snakes along the 
beaches of West Haven’s coast­
line, between the mouths of Cove 
River to the north and Oyster 
River to the south. The houses on 
Ocean Avenue are two-story, sin­
gle-family dwellings with modest 
front yards and spectacular views 
of the Long Island Sound. I knew 
immediately which house I was 
looking for when I saw a flash of 
red on the door: a “Yale: Respect 
New Haven” sign, just like the 
ones that have dotted the campus 
and city for years. After knock­
ing on the door, careful to avoid 
disturbing the sign, I was ushered 
inside by my host.

Even if you had no idea what 
she does for a living, you could 
tell pretty quickly that Ame­
lia Prostano is a librarian, and an 
extremely fastidious one at that. 
Open on her kitchen table in 
anticipation of my arrival was a 
photo album, dozens of pages long 
and meticulously organized, cov­
ering Prostano’s nearly forty years 
as a member of Local 34 and an 
employee at the Beinecke, where 
she currently works as an acquisi­
tions assistant. While she fixed me 
a coffee, I flipped through page 
after page filled with photographs 
of picket lines, marches, rallies, 
and the odd busload of cops dis­
patched to intimidate striking 
workers. In her four decades at 
Yale, Prostano’s personal archive 
of Yale’s labor activity certainly 
hasn’t lacked material. “Union­
busting,” the New York Univer­
sity historian Kim Philips-Fein 
once wrote in The Nation, “is as 
much a Yale tradition as Lux et 
Veritas.” 

Prostano came to Yale in 1983, 
during the crucible of one of the 
fiercest anti-union campaigns in 
Yale’s history—and one of the 
most 
consequential 
moments 
of labor struggle in late twen­
tieth century U.S. history. In 
the decades before the nineteen 
eighties, national labor organiz­
ers had tried and failed multiple 
times to unionize Yale’s clerical 
and technical employees, a work­
force largely made up of female 
secretaries, librarians, and labo­
ratory technicians. In May 1983, 
following a three-year organiz­
ing drive spearheaded by the 
Hotel Employees and Restaurant 
Employees International Union 
(HERE), a slim majority of Yale’s 
2,600 C&T employees voted to 
unionize as Local 34. After a year 
of trying and failing to negotiate a 
contract with a hostile administra­
tion, the fledgling union went on 
strike in late September 1984. 
At a moment when the arche­
typal union worker in the Amer­
ican imagination was a white, 
male factory worker, Local 34’s 
campaign was notable for being 
avowedly feminist in both its 
makeup and its demands. Pros­
tano, who earned just $9600 
during her first year at the library, 
remembers a casual conversation 
just a few weeks into her job in 
which her supervisor commented 
on how nice it was that she had 
the chance to make “pin money.” 
An expression dating back to the 
seventeenth century, “pin money” 
denoted the allowance a man 
would give a woman to purchase 
clothing and other incidentals. “I 
thought to myself, I’m working a 
full-time job, and you’re telling me 
it’s nice to have pin money?” Pros­
tano told me. “But that’s where we 
were in 1983.”

Prostano was there in early 
October 1984, when nearly 200 
C&T 
workers 
were 
arrested 
during a silent protest in front of 
then-Yale President Bartlett Gia­
matti’s house. And she was there 
three weeks later, when civil rights 
leader Ralph Abernathy blessed 
the striking workers in a packed 
United Methodist Church on the 
New Haven Green before they 
went out to a protest in front of 
Woodbridge Hall. “Yale is a great 
institution. Yale is a wealthy insti­
tution. But Yale is treating certain 
segments of its population unjustly 
and Yale University ought to be 
ashamed,” Abernathy, one of the 
late Martin Luther King Jr.’s clos­
est friends and advisors, told the 
crowd. “You have the opportunity 
to witness for justice and equality. 
. . for a grand and noble cause.” 
“There was no way you could 
have stopped us in 1984,” Prostano 
told me. “It’s a feeling I can’t even 
explain. It was life-changing. It 
changed my life in so many ways.” 
The union emerged victorious 
from the strike, winning a contract 
that went a significant way toward 
eliminating the gender pay gap at 
Yale and provided benefits tailored 
to the needs of women workers. 
When Prostano lost her husband 
in 1995, it was only because of her 
union job and the raises she knew 
were coming that she was able to 
keep her house on Ocean Avenue, 
where, a quarter century later, she 
weathered the pandemic with her 
two young grandchildren.

The 1984 strike wasn’t just 
life-changing for Prostano. For 
many labor historians, it holds a 
special place in recent U.S. labor 
history. Local 34’s ability to win 
substantial concessions from the 
university was a rare bright spot 
for the U.S. labor movement in 
the nineteen eighties, which faced 
a presidential administration hell-
bent on union-busting and an 
economy hemorrhaging industrial 
jobs. (In New Haven, the vaunted 
Winchester Arms factory, once 
the largest employer in the city, 
shuttered its doors in 1977.)

The strikers also pioneered a 
social-movement 
style, 
demo­
cratic approach to labor organiz­
ing that has become a model for 
successful campaigns in recent 
years. Instead of centering their 
campaign around wages and ben­
efits, the 1984 strikers focused 
more on dignity and social jus­
tice, a strategy which gave them 
a broader base of support. Their 
aim was to expose the Yale admin­
istration’s hypocrisy and harm 
the University’s brand, its most 
important asset. In that sense, the 
strikers were acting with oracular 
foresight. “What Local 34 figured 
out in 1984 presaged our current 
moment in the economy, when 
attacking a companies’ brand is 
what you do to build power,” 
Jacob Remes ’02, a labor historian 
at NYU working on a book about 
the 1984 strike, told me. Through­
out the fall of 1984, union mem­
bers carried signs claiming that 
they were “On Strike for Respect,” 
a rhetorical flourish that echoes 
across four decades of New Haven 
labor history and reappears in the 
New Haven Rising slogan, “Yale: 
Respect New Haven.”

The strike and its most memo­
rable slogan even inspired its own 
book, On Strike for Respect, pub­
lished by three labor historians 
and one lawyer in 1995. While 
the book’s sales only reached a 
couple thousand, Prostano, true to 
her profession, has a good-as-new 
copy, which she kindly offered me 
later that afternoon on my way 
out the door.

But I hadn’t come to Prostano’s 
house just to talk history. And 
I wasn’t her only guest. A few 
minutes after I arrived, Jennifer 
Garcia and Cecillia Chu walked 
through the door—Prostano’s col­
leagues at the Beinecke and fellow 
members of Local 34, where Gar-


**Title: Yale's Subcontracting Practices: A Continuing Struggle**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

cia serves on the executive board. 
I was there to learn more about 
the library’s use of subcontracted 
rather than union labor, a problem 
which goes back years, as all three 
of them explained. 

Garcia 
was 
hired 
by 
the 
Beinecke as an archives assistant in 
May 2013. At the time, the library 
was in the midst of what it called 
the “Baseline Processing Project.” 
The initiative was a response to the 
growing mismatch between the 
library’s steadily-growing mass 
of acquired materials—a prod­
uct of its robust budget—and the 
amount of people it employed to 
do the cataloguing and archiving 
work necessary to make those 
materials accessible to teachers 
and researchers. As part of the 
project, two temporary employees 
had been hired to help Garcia and 
the other two archives assistants 
in the manuscript unit. Within 
two years, however, the two other 
permanent archives assistants had 
left the unit, and when the tempo­
rary positions expired, the library 
didn’t extend their duration or 
hire the workers into either of the 
two permanent positions that had 
opened up. 

“For the next two years, I was 
the only person providing sup­
port on the processing end of 
the department, which was a lot, 
and very difficult,” Garcia said, 
especially as the collections kept 
growing and the backlog problem 
remained unsolved. “Beinecke is 
really wonderful, and has robust 
budgets for developing its collec­
tions. But in many ways it’s been 
frustrating to see that the same 
emphasis they have on enhancing 
what we have in-house doesn’t 
seem to apply to the employees 
that work there.”

In late March 2019, Prostano 
and Garcia, who serve as union 
stewards in the department, were 
called into a meeting with the 
then-head of Beinecke Technical 
Services and one of Yale’s finan­
cial analysts, who matter-of-factly 
explained that the library—at the 
behest of the Provost—was plan­
ning on hiring subcontractors to 
help deal with the ongoing back­
log problem. Both Prostano and 
Garcia were completely blind-
sided by the news. Later, they 
discovered that the Beinecke had 
signed multi-year contracts with 
two companies: Backstage Library 
Works and the Winthrop Cor­
poration, based in Utah and New 
York, 
respectively 
(Backstage 
operates the Bethlehem, PA ware­
house that Colon mentioned in her 
October 2nd speech). The con­
tracts were each worth millions 
of dollars. “I was shocked,” Pros­
tano said. When union members 
dug through Backstage’s website, 
they discovered that it was adver­
tising processing positions for half 
of what a Local 34 worker would 
normally make. 

Once 
Prostano 
and 
learned about the subcontracting 
project, they sprang into action, 
holding a series of employee par­
ticipation meetings to inform 
the other union members at the 
Beinecke about the project and 
to start pushing back. “Bad man­
agement decisions often become 
a really good organizing impetus 
for us,” Garcia said. “It was a really 
unifying thing to watch the union 
members, first in technical services 
at the Beinecke and then at the 
Beinecke as a whole, rally together 
to push on management to respect 
our work and the library.” After 
months of pressure, the library 
offered a partial concession and 
created four new temporary posi­
tions to help with the backlog. But 
the multimillion dollar contracts—
and the potential local jobs they 
represented—remained.

What made the 2019 subcon­
tracting issue particularly trou­
bling for the union was that its 
announcement came just months 
after the deadline for Yale’s hiring 
agreement had passed. It seemed 
like a pointed refusal to hire local 
residents for union jobs, even 
though Yale needed the work­
ers. That anger grew during the 
pandemic, 
when 
many 
New 
Haven residents who lacked stable 
employment struggled to pay rent 
and put food on the table. 

“The beautiful thing about 
belonging to a labor movement 
is that your interest is not just in 
making life better for people who 
are part of the union, but also to 
make that ripple outward to the 
communities that are negatively 
impacted by a large employer,” 
Garcia told me. “If Yale, instead 
of shipping our jobs out, really 
wants to make a positive impact




**Title: Yale and New Haven: A Story of Labor and Community**
**Author: [Author Name not provided]**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
On its community, then hire us. 
Hire people from New Haven. 
Be a better neighbor. There’s a 
real opportunity here, not just to 
push for respect for people who 
are already Yale employees, but 
for the entire community as well.” 


Toward the end of their gener­
ally glowing appraisal of the 1984 
strike, the authors of On Strike 
for Respect offered a single reser­
vation: the strikers, they argued, 
hadn’t generally made a major 
issue of “Yale’s dominant position 
in the city of New Haven—and 
the contrast between the Univer­
sity’s wealth and the city’s pov­
erty.” They warned that failing 
to do so in the future courted the 
possibility “that unions within 
universities can become as insular 
as the institutions in which they 
organize.” 

Yale’s dominance over New 
Haven was a central theme of 
the October 2nd rally, but at no 
point was it more poignantly 
rendered than in the afternoon’s 
final speech. After Colon finished 
speaking, she handed the micro­
phone to Davarian Baldwin, a cul­
tural critic and professor at Trinity 
College whose most recent book, 
In the Shadow of the Ivory Tower: 
How Universities Are Plundering 
Our Cities, had exposed what labor 
economist Gordon Lafer once 
called the “tension between the 
enlightened promise and self-in­
terested practice of urban univer­
sities.” Sporting a black tracksuit, 
black sneakers, and tinted Ray 
Bans, Baldwin paced back and 
forth across Prospect Street, his 
thundering voice rising above 
early-fall gusts of wind. “When I 
want to make people understand 
higher education’s growing con­
trol over the economic develop­
ment and the urban governance 
of our cities and towns,” Baldwin 
boomed, “there’s no better place 
to talk about than Yale and New 
Haven. This is ground zero.” 

But Baldwin considers Yale 
and New Haven “ground zero” 
not only because of the problems 
it so acutely represents, but also 
because of the forms of resistance 
that have emerged in response to 
them. From the 2001 founding 
of the Connecticut Center for a 
New Economy (which became 
New Haven Rising in 2012), to 
the unions’ 2011 takeover of the 
Board of Alders, to the recent 
pushes for local hiring and for 
Yale to pay local taxes, the move­
ments that have developed over 
the past several decades show how 
“intimately connected” the rela­
tionship between labor and the 
community has become in New 
Haven, Baldwin told me a week 
after his speech. Looking back 
over the past four decades, the 
fears of the authors of On Strike for 
Respect never materialized; indeed, 
the opposite has largely been true. 

That library workers demanding 
an end to subcontracting are mak­
ing common cause with grassroots 
social movements pushing the 
university to fundamentally trans­
form its relationship with the city 
is evidence of how far things have 
come.

Three-and-a-half weeks after 
the rally, at noon on a rainy Tues­
day, a group of several dozen Local 
34 members marched into the cav­
ernous lobby of the Provost’s office 
at 2 Whitney Avenue. They were 
there to present the Provost —who 
had initiated the subcontracting 
project in early 2019—with a book 
filled with nearly 150 photographs 
of Local 34 members. In every 
photograph, a worker held a sign 
calling on Yale to “Respect Our 
Work!”, with each sign includ­
ing a personalized note explaining 
why they opposed subcontracting. 
“Good paying jobs with real ben­
efits should stay in New Haven, 
which improves the local econ­
omy and lifts people out of pov­
erty,” read one sign. “Everyone 
should have union representation. 
Worker rights are human rights,” 
read another. 

In response to Local 34’s photo 
petition, Yale University Librarian 
Barbara Rockenbach said that the 
library is “contractually obligated 
to the companies doing this work, 
and we continue to believe this is 
the most effective solution for a 
time-sensitive, short-term need.” 
Rockenbach added that the library 
remains “committed to maintain­
ing and supporting robust clerical 
and technical employment at the 
library and to advancing and sup­
porting, wherever we can, Yale’s 
commitments to the New Haven 
community.” 

While it is unclear how the 
library and university administra­
tion will ultimately respond to the 
petition’s demand for the library 
to commit to ending subcontract­
ing, what is certainly clear is that, 
as in 1984, the library workers’ 
struggle is intimately related to 
deeper contestation over what the 
university is, and what it should 
become.

“Especially for people in the 
administration that I speak to, 
their first thought is that people 
like me and people who are activ­
ists hate the university, that we’re 
anti-university,” Baldwin told me. 
“Nothing could be further from 
the truth. The point is that if we 
take the charters of universities, 
their mission statements, the lofty 
claims of their capital campaigns, 
and the general presumption that 
universities’ job is to solve the 
most difficult problems that face 
the globe to their logical conclu­
sion, why wouldn’t universities 
solve the problems in their own 
backyard, especially if they’re 
involved in creating those prob­
lems?” 

Prostano 
offered 
a 
similar 
sentiment, reminding me that, 
 ...[T]he library workers’ 
struggle is intimately related 
to deeper contestation over 
what the university is, and 
what it should become.

engraved on the façade of Ster­
ling Memorial Library is the 
phrase, “The Library is the heart 
of the University.” She and her 
colleagues want Yale to live up 
to that vaunted claim. They care 
about the university, just as they 
care about the city it calls home. 
For the Local 34 members push­
ing for more local hiring and an 
end to subcontracting, the goal 
isn’t to snuff out Yale’s heartbeat, 
but rather to make it thump to a 
tune that can appeal to everyone 
who lives and works under Yale’s 
ever-lengthening shadow.
Jack McCordick is a senior in 
Branford College.


**Title: Crying in the L-Dub Showers**
**Author: Michaela Wang**
**Page number(s): 17**

​​
I’ve been crying in the L-Dub showers. This is where I came to 
mourn my first graded problem set, to admit that college guys 
aren’t interested in committed relationships, and to meditate 
on how chicken breast doused in pepper will be my entire diet 
for the next four years. The four-by-four-foot confines offer a 
rare moment of privacy, inviting emotional vulnerability like 
that boy on the first night of orientation couldn’t. The shower 
also offers a quick disposal of evidence––no tissues flooding the 
floor, no mascara crystallizing along the rims of your eyelids. 
And because Yale Facilities still hasn’t called me back about 
my high-water-pressure complaint, the pounding of droplets 
against the moldy granite floor provides a built-in white noise 
for my sniffles and occasional wails. I’m bathing in (and invol­
untarily sipping) a cocktail of shower water, my own tears, and a 
little bit of Coconut Vanilla 2-in-1 hair product. What could be 
more cathartic?



**Title: What happens when you test positive for COVID-19 at Yale.**
**Author: Will Sutherland**
**Page number(s): 18**

Somebody help! I have COVID and I’m 
standing alone outside Maison Mathis
“Yeah, I’m getting into the rhythm of classes and 
everything, and I’m just feeling like I have my sea 
legs,” a close friend told me four weeks into this 
semester––the first of my senior year. I remember 
looking down at my own legs then and thinking, 
these are not sea legs.   

Three weeks earlier, on the first Friday of the 
semester, on the day before my twenty-second birth­
day, a year and a half after the start of the pandemic, 
six months after my second dose of Pfizer, roughly a 
week after I had gone to a friend’s birthday party in 
Bushwick, and a day before I ended up alone out­
side Maison Mathis, I opened the MyChart app on 
my phone to check my weekly COVID test result: 
positive. 

Having spent last year in New Haven doing online 
classes, living off campus, and getting tested in a 
standing coffin in the basement of my residential col­
lege twice a week, I had checked my MyChart test 
result at least forty times before. It had always been 
negative. Still, there were always familiar nerves 
when opening a new result, a fresh batch of internal 
questions and speculations about what would happen 
if it did, in fact, come back positive. How the fuck 
would I tell my roommates? Would I get taken away 
by a team of guys in hazmat suits and forced to live 
inside an insulated plastic bubble in isolation hous­
ing?  Would I have to talk to my dean?

Despite FAQ sheets on the Yale Health website 
outlining the need to stay home and follow the 
advice of your medical provider, it seemed like every 
story that I heard last year was different. Some peo­
ple moved to Old Campus isolation housing; some 
off-campus students rented Airbnbs so that their 
roommates would feel more safe. Some isolated for 
a full two weeks; others were released earlier. Some 
close contacts stayed locked in their rooms, while 
others felt confident enough to resume some sem­
blance of normal social life. The lingering question 
then, was whether or not each student determined 
the terms of their own isolation, or whether Yale told 
them exactly what to do.

When I opened my positive test result, all I wanted 
was for Yale to tell me exactly what to do. 

I am sitting on the edge of my bed, lacing up my 
boots and getting ready to head out to dinner with 
a group of friends. My phone vibrates in my lap 
and I think, yeah, I should probably check the result, 
just for some added peace of mind. Positive, typed in 
bold black lettering. Fuck. I had a mild cough for a 
few days, but I’d also been smoking all summer and 
just assumed it was one of those weeks. Don’t panic, 
I think to myself, someone is going to call and tell me 
what to do, and everything is going to be fine. I put a 
mask on and peer out through a crack in the door to 
look at one of my roommates, sitting at our kitchen 
table. “Helena,” I say. “I tested positive.” 
“OK, OK, don’t panic. What do we do?” she says, 
half getting out of her seat. “What did they say to 
do?” Nobody has called yet. There are no instruc­
tions, just the white rectangle on my phone screen 
with the result. After a year and a half of watching 
people get COVID, it actually happens and I have 
no fucking clue what to do. I Google “yale covid



**Title: When I opened my positive test result, all I wanted was for Yale to tell me exactly what to do.**
**Author: Will Sutherland**
**Page number(s): 19-20**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
When I opened my positive test result, all I wanted was for Yale to tell me exactly what to do.

I clicked “test positive” and find there are at least three links with different guidelines and FAQs. I am redirected to a CDC webpage called “What to do if you are sick?” Apparently, I need to isolate myself and monitor my symptoms. Is that it? There should be alarms going off. Someone should be knocking down my door and carrying me away. At the very least, somebody should have called by now. My roommates are now wearing masks, sitting in the living room on the other side of my bedroom door, waiting. 

About an hour and a half after reading the result, somebody calls. It’s a nurse whose name I don’t catch. She asks me whether I’m aware that I have tested positive. Yes, I’m aware, I say. Do you have symptoms? Nothing more than a mild cough. Do you know where you might have been exposed to COVID? I can’t be 100 percent sure, but probably at a party in New York last weekend. 

The nurse and I speak on the phone for about half an hour, going over my every move for the past week, everyone I have been in contact with, every surface on campus I might have touched. She tells me that a contact tracer will be in touch the next day, and that I should isolate in my bedroom for the next ten. She tells me that other nurses will call to check in on my condition, and that I should schedule another test for the next day to make sure it wasn’t a false positive. I listen to her instructions and try to think of a game plan. 

Four of us live in a small apartment on Dwight Street, sharing one bathroom and one kitchen. Okay, so, if I go to the bathroom as little as possible, and wear gloves and a mask and wipe down every surface afterwards and you guys bring me food on paper plates and then we set fire to the plates and I don’t step into the kitchen…Clearly, this isn’t going to work. I need to go to isolation housing. 

The next morning, a man from contact tracing calls and I go over the list of people and spaces again. At the end of the call, I ask hopefully, “Do you know how I might be able to get to isolation housing?” Unfortunately, that isn’t his department, and I should call the nurse back and ask for more information. 

It’s a Saturday, and the nurse isn’t picking up her phone. I try the COVID-19 resource line, where I’m redirected to a man at the Yale ITS help desk who clearly wants to help but has no knowledge of the housing policies for people who test positive. I hang up and try the campus COVID-19 hotline, where I speak with another aspirationally helpful woman who also can’t help. I’m told that the hotline is for reporting purposes, rather than figuring out what to do if you test positive and need help. I try the resource line again, then the hotline, then the resource line, then the hotline. Finally, I try the Yale Student Health phone number, where, again, I’m told to refer back to the instructions given by the original nurse. 

Two close friends tested positive a few weeks earlier and lived in quarantine housing in Arnold Hall, so that’s where I need to get. One of the people from the resource line refers me to the Graduate Housing phone number, which I try and get no answer; another man tells me that I should call the School of Music because they run the quarantine housing. He doesn’t explain why the School of Music is in charge of Yale’s COVID patients, but I take his word for it. 

I end up on hold, classical music blaring in my ear. Nobody answers. At this point, I have made at least ten phone calls. I decide to take matters into my own hands. I pack ten days’ worth of clothes into a yellow duffle bag; put on sunglasses, a cap, and a mask; and walk to the tall metal gate outside Arnold Hall. 

It’s Saturday afternoon; Maison Mathis is pumping. Everyone from Yale and their parents and their pomeranians are sitting on the folding chairs on the sidewalk, chugging café au lait and waiting for me to infect them. 

My swipe access to Arnold Hall doesn’t work; there is nobody on the other side of the gate. I stand outside for ten minutes, acutely aware of the Maison Mathis mob to my right, who are watching me flounder as I search for any sign of life on the other side of the gate. Eventually, tail between my legs, I walk back to my bedroom. In a last ditch effort, my bag still packed on my bed, I call the resource line again, and am finally given a phone number for the people in charge of isolation housing. They tell me that I can move in the next day. On Sunday afternoon, forty-eight hours after testing positive, I make it to the promised land, the inside of Arnold Hall. 

—

My time in quarantine housing was pretty great. The food was repetitive (frozen Mac and Cheese, frozen lasagne, tuna sandwiches on rye), but I never had to hassle my roommates; the bathrooms were sanitized; and the bed was the same kind I had slept on for my first two years at college. My symptoms remained relatively mild—cough, fatigue, brain fog. A nurse checked in every few days to monitor symptoms, but other than that, there was nobody to tell you what to do with your time, or with your thoughts. There were no staff inside Arnold Hall, no one watching your every move to make sure you didn’t escape and infect the community. Just silence and empty space. I spent those ten days grateful that I could still taste and smell the microwaved Mac and Cheese that my roommates and friends dropped off food and a paint-by-numbers of a cowboy cat to keep me entertained, and that, by all accounts, I was fine. Most days, all I did was sleep and sit and think. 

What I still remember is the disorientation of the whole experience. A year and a half of speculating what it would be like, what it should be like—then, you get it and nothing happens the way you thought it would. Going back to classes, some professors treat you as if you had been intubated in a hospital bed, granting extensions and graces and heaping kindness on you. Others treat you as if nothing happened, bugging you about missed work and asking repeatedly why you are struggling to catch up. There is no specific guide to what to do when you test positive, there is no guide to re-entry, there is no single experience. 

When I was released from Arnold Hall, I walked home past Maison Mathis on the opposite of sea legs. It has now been a month and my brain still feels foggy. I dropped a class because of work I couldn’t catch up on. I tell myself that I just couldn’t get into the rhythm. Things are starting to calm down, a break will be good, but I’m still throwing up from the seasickness. 

Will Sutherland is a senior in Grace Hopper College and an Associate Editor of The New Journal


**Title: Leitner House Ritual**
**Author: Abigail Dixon**
**Page number(s): 21**

Cattywampus. This key is the last word I will utter tonight. I step into my H.O.C.’s dining room, a table full of cheese and cookies to my left, and a decision to my right. Do I sit at the table, for convenience? Or in the living room, where I can tower over Dr. D from the couch as he lounges on the floor? I choose convenience—there is always next week. The table also means my cheese is safe from Josie. Even still, her tail thumps intermittently on my leg as she makes her rounds under the table. I read, I write, I dunk this week’s cookie of choice in my hours-old dining hall coffee. 

When the clock strikes eleven, we file out into the night, still hesitant to speak. I carry a plate of cookies for my suitemates who did not come. The next week, when sign-ups arrive, I promptly message them: “SSB.” This becomes our chant on Monday as we venture to Leitner House once again: SSB, SSB, SSB! 


**Title: Mew Haven Cat Cafe**
**Author: Miranda Jeyaretnam**

After pulling together $1.75 in change for the bus (I had decided against the forty-five minute walk, but another Yalie I met there told me she’d run), I ended up in Westville, a quaint neighbourhood with flyers for various flea markets pasted on each traffic light. Here lay Mew Haven Cat Cafe, the first of its kind in Connecticut. The cat lounge was outfitted with tall structures stretching to the ceiling and pocketed with hidey holes, little cat homes stacked atop each other. Each time I turned to look at a spot, what looked like an empty couch would materialise as two cats cuddling each other. I drank my first pumpkin spiced latte, “Mr Kitty’s Pumpkin Spice Coffee,” (totally understand the hype now) as Davinci, a big black and white cat, padded past me. Already, I could tell some of their personalities—Davinci, who greeted me at the door but got catty when stroked for too long, was sassy, Dumbledore, a large grey cat, napped through most of the session, unbothered by any amount of attention, and Josie, only a couple months old and so, so tiny, nudged my hand to be petted. Angela, the owner of the cafe, told me that the cafe also serves as an adoption service (she herself has taken in Colossus) and that now was a popular period for adoption—“kitten season.” I thought of the neighborhood cats back home in Singapore, that lived downstairs of public housing flats and were mostly cared for by old aunties and uncles. If a community of cats could exist in the same way here, I thought, Mew Haven Cat Cafe was definitely it.


**Title: Barbed Wire Ballet**
**Author: J. D. Wright**

in the quietest hour, I sever 
strings of barbed wire from their homes. 
I am braiding them together, slow 
and steady like a mother 
whose hands are bloody, but tender 
nonetheless; I weep, 
strip until I’m ashamed, 
and wrap the wire 
around my naked body, pretend 
it’s swaying like a dress



**Title: NIGHT LIFE**
**Author: JABEZ CHOI**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I. 
One night, I became nocturnal. Not by choice, 
but from fear. At the time, I was a fearful man. 
I even feared the sun. The last time I saw the sun, it 
was red. Like a blood-shot eye. Look, I thought. The 
sun is angry at you. So I hid. I hid for two months. 
In hiding, I couldn’t always tell the difference 
between my slumber and my wakefulness. I didn’t 
dream. When I woke up, I didn’t think. Instead, I 
yearned. At the time, I did not know what or who 
I yearned for. I just knew I was incomplete. There 
existed an incompleteness so strong that I had to 
move. But the slightest motion felt violent. Am I a 
violent man? I asked myself. 
Then, in the blinding night, I walked. 
Those walking nights, I believed in destiny. I 
believed I could walk and end up in a promised land. 
For hours, I wandered to find some place distant, 
unfamiliar. Always, I ended up back at home. 
I don’t remember everything from my walks. My 
memory, like Sappho’s lyrics, became fragmented. 
Memory is oddly picky. It seems like yesterdays and 
mornings are always forgotten. But something curious 
is lodged in my mind. My mother, holding a pen, 
writing on a well-worn desk. Outside the window, a 
roaring beach. No—an interstate highway. Perhaps, 
my father’s cries, or are those my own tears? In the 
memory, am I young? When was this? Maybe long 
ago. Or not at all.

II.  
The walks were sometimes lonely but not 
always. One night, my friend called me. He 
lived across the country for school. It was late for me, 
later for him. There were many reasons to be up late 
on a Friday night. He didn’t tell me his own.

How are you?

I’m drunk, he said.

What was that noise?

I threw up.

At least it’s all out now.

Finally.
Before he left for school last year, he told me he was 
in love. Not with me. With someone who I thought 
undeserving of his love. I didn’t tell him this. Instead, 
I listened as he revealed his feelings for someone else. 
When he left, there were many things I wanted to tell 
him.

Sometimes, I feel so far away, he said.

From?

I don’t know. It’s just that feeling.


I threw up again.

It wasn’t all out?

Not yet.
He would later miss over half of his classes that year. 
He, too, would turn nocturnal. He would tell me that 
his behavior was stupid. All he had to do was get out 
of bed. For some reason, he would stay. He would 
describe its familiar mold, a mold that would hold 
him tight. He knew it was wrong to stay in bed. But 
strangely, it made him feel safe. 

I missed you, he said.

I missed you, too...Hello? Hello?
He went silent. He stayed silent for an hour. Perhaps he 
passed out. I imagined him, keeled over on a 
vomit-filled toilet. In place of his voice, his soft breath, 
and sometimes a snore. I did not turn the phone off. 
I walked along the dark streets with his soft breath 
in my ear. I walked until I found myself back in my 
bed. Then, I slept, just like he had been sleeping, miles 
away.
Later, he texted me. He said how sorry he was for 
calling me. I told him it was okay. I told him to be 
safe. I didn’t tell him that I wished he called me more 
often. I didn’t tell him that for the first time in months, 
I had not felt alone. 


III. 
I established a route. I would walk to a 
high school parking lot. Past the 7/11 gas 
station. Past a flattened cat or possum or raccoon. Past 
a dirtied blue mask. Past a used lush ice Puff Bar. Past 
the woods near the military base. Past the police station, 
I would find the water. There were no streetlights on the 
beach. When I walked into the water, 
the coldness burned me. Only the coldness told me 
where to go. Then, back home I walked.
Once, I peed behind the 7/11 gas station. When I 
walked around the corner, my eyes met the back of 
a woman. She walked out of the gas station onto the 
streets I thought I alone walked. I followed. Not out 
of curiosity. But out of necessity. The route was my 
ritual.
On the road outside of the beach, a man stood. The 
woman walked up to the man, tapped him on the 
head, and pulled out a roll. Together, they smoked. 
They didn’t speak. They stared out into the water. 
What did they look at? I stared into the water to find 
the black, a black darker than black. Like looking at a 
Rothko painting, I searched for meaning.
When I decided there was no meaning, I walked 
back home. The two still stood, looking into the black.

IV. 
One night, I decided I was tired of walking. 
So, I texted a man from a dating app to 
pick me up. I didn’t know what he looked like. Even 
when I entered his car in the obscure night, I couldn’t 
see his face. His voice, though, a deep bass, I heard.
When he asked me where I wanted to go, I told 
him near the water. On the way, he stopped by a Starbucks. 
Did I want anything? I asked for lemonade. He 
didn’t order anything for himself. 
By the water, we didn’t touch each other. Instead, 
we talked. What did he say? He lived on base, just 
out of training. Did he say he was last stationed in 
Texas or Idaho? He had a little sister. Maybe they 
were estranged. I can’t remember. A clear memory, 
though: his quivering voice, a lament, confessing that 
he had been hiding for twenty-five years, twenty-six 
soon. He hated it, and he didn’t hate many things. 
Bah! Who cares? Nobody. Why were we awake at 3 
AM, anyways?
The same reason you are.
In all honesty?
All honesty.
During the drive back, I fell asleep. Later, he 
touched me for the first time, gently, nudging my 
shoulder. We were back at my place. I said goodbye 
and shut his door. As soon as I did, the car sped away, 
as if embarrassed. That morning, he texted me again. 
I deleted the app soon after.
I have not seen him since. But, I remember his 
voice. If he had called out to me on the street today, I 
would recognize him. Though, what would he even 
say? I never told him my name. He never told me his.

V. 
And then there was light. I woke up one 
morning to find the sun. Where was I now? 
Still in my bed. The laughter of the neighbors’ children 
spilled into my room. I hadn’t heard them in 
months. Were they taller now than before?
As if my two months of nocturnal existence had 
not existed, I acclimated to the day. I went for runs, 
worked, talked to friends and family. During the 
summer, the sun shone on my skin every day. As 
soon as the dark came each evening, I closed my eyes. 
When I opened them, I would find the kind light 
again. 
Sometimes, I wondered if my nocturnal existence 
even existed. There were so many things I couldn’t 
remember. At night, I couldn’t see everything. The 
world seemed smaller. Though, on occasion, something 
indicated that the world was indeed large. A 
yowling cat, a speeding car, a shout, murmuring 
from behind a lit window, and if nothing else, the 
whir of the streetlights above.
Often the only thing clear to me was the streets, 
the streets I would walk on, the streets I knew. It was 
simpler that way. I knew exactly where my next step 
was going to land and where my next step would 
take me. Do I miss those times? I still do not know. 

VI. 
There are so many things I can’t remember. 
But the same memory is stuck in my 
head. I was young when my father cried. I laid underneath 
my mother’s desk. My mother’s leg shook. The 
scratching above me. What was my mother writing? I 
could see the cars just outside our window, the interstate, 
busy as ever. Even the closed window couldn’t 
hide its deafening roar. Where was my father? In all 
of this, where was he crying? And my mother, her 
voice, commanding, angry. After, I remember nothing. 
Perhaps, beneath the desk, I had closed my eyes. 
Perhaps I learned to darken a turbulent world. In this 
darkness, I learned how to escape.
Jabez Choi is a first-year in Pierson College and 
a Copy Editor of The New Journal
DESIGN BY ADA GRIFFIN


**Title: WHEN A VIRUS CALLS**
**Author: JESSE GOODMAN**
**Page number(s): 24**

“It’s calling from inside the house.”
Tonight is my turn to use the kitchen, so I’ve got 
the place to myself. No one else is allowed in. I could 
strip naked if I liked, pick my nose, smoke—whatever 
people do when they know they won’t be seen. But 
instead I’m standing at the sink, doing the dishes. It’s 
six o’clock in the evening, and I’m wearing a mask. 
It’s an N95, white and surgical, the kind that makes 
you feel like your mouth has gone camping in a tent. 
My mom knows someone who knows someone who 
works at the hospital, and they had some extras in 
storage. It’s much better than those awful cloth masks 
that irritate my skin and cause fat-tomato pimples to 
ripen on the tip of my nose—good thing no one will 
get a chance to notice them. The only people I see 
anyway are the man at the deli who smears cream 
cheese on my bagel, and the guy with the lip ring 
who sells me weed from the front seat of his beat-up 
Toyota. And as long as I wear my N95, I’m protected 
from their stares.
The sky is bruised purple and black. The tree in our 
backyard clutches its last leaves. It’s early November, 
and, despite the chill, I’ve thrown open all the windows 
in the kitchen and the living room. The house is 
hushed, like places that are empty but shouldn’t be—a 
deserted football stadium, or a classroom after school 
has closed. The wide, pink tiles are cold beneath my 
feet. My kitchen feels like a morgue. 
Upstairs my mom has started coughing again; 
she’s been at it all day. Coughing is okay, so long as 
her lips don’t turn blue. As I watch the water gurgle 
through a damp plug of food in the drain, I meditate 
on some numbers. 237,000, as of today—that 
number’s big, too big to really worry about. 2 percent—a 
shittier number, 1/50. I don’t want to think 
about it for too long. I remind myself that the 2 percent 
includes seniors, really old people, people with 
acrylic teeth and titanium knees. But how far away 
is my mom from them, really? She’s 55—ten years 
from 65, twenty years from 75. Back in May, when 
The New York Times published a list of the dead on 
the front page, the very first person was 57 years old. 
I know of someone who died at 54, the mother of a 
friend from high school. A single cough strikes overhead 
like a clap of thunder. 
I stuff my ears with headphones and crank the 
music real high, until it’s the only thing I can hear. 
For a moment I feel more cheerful, but then I realize 
I’ve been singing out loud, and I quickly shut it 
off. I shouldn’t be opening my mouth at all, let alone 
singing—spraying invisible droplets across the shared 
eating space like shrapnel shells. This is how the virus 
spreads: through an accidental laugh, through tears 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Jesse Goodman**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
NOVEMBER 2021
 25
and yawns. Through the lyrics of a Frank Ocean 
song, sung with abandon. 
My dad got it first, a single line of bold text on 
a piece of paper: POSITIVE. So he isolated in his 
room and my mom slept on a cot in the guest room, 
jamming a thermometer in her mouth over and over 
until the digits took up the whole screen. Then I 
started to feel unsteady, flattened, like an elephant 
had sat on me in the night. So I got shut away too. 
My brother went to sleep in my sister’s room, the 
two of them in one bed. We divided up the day into 
shifts: thirty minutes apiece for the kitchen—break­
fast, lunch, and dinner. Disinfect the bathroom after 
every use. Don’t linger in hallways. Wear a mask in 
communal spaces. 

It felt like a betrayal, a breach of the unspoken 
arrangement we’d made with the virus. The streets 
are yours, we conceded, but the home is sacred: our 
last and safest haven. But the virus reneged on the 
deal. The invisible assailants had slipped through the 
gates of Troy, hiding in my dad’s nasal passage. This 
was a forced entry, a home invasion—“Jill, we’ve 
traced the call. It's coming from inside the house!” 
Yesterday I woke up to find a piece of paper slipped 
under my door. It was a picture of my mom, her hair 
tucked in a bun and held together with a thermom­
eter. She was smiling and giving a thumbs-up to the 
camera; in the background, her cot was a mess of 
rumpled sheets, used tissues and cough drops. Below 
the picture she’d written: Feeling pretty good today! 
I think I might take a walk around the room, get some 
exercise. 7/10. Later I heard her footsteps outside, 
and another slip of paper came under the door. The 
walk was a bad idea. Now I’m dizzy and my stomach 
hurts. 3/10. The next day the notes stopped coming. 
I ripped out a piece of notebook paper and jotted 
down: How’s your stomach? She responded with a 
text. Don’t worry about me, doing fine! 

The dishes are done, the counters disinfected. 
I head upstairs to my room and flop down on my 
bed. I’m suffering from a symptom of the virus that 
doesn’t appear on the WebMD page: skin-hunger. 
I haven’t seen another person in six days. I haven’t 
touched anyone in much longer, probably weeks. 
I’m starting to learn that our muscles need touch the 
way they need protein. 

My stomach gives a lurch of hunger. Nothing 
to do but wait for morning, when my turn for the 
kitchen comes around again.
Jesse Goodman is a junior in Berkeley College and an 
Associate Editor of The New Journal.



**Title: filling in the blanks**
**Author: Alex Rocha-Alvarez**
**Page number(s): 26**

Along California’s 
Pájaro River, a 
father and daughter 
trace a complicated 
family history. 
By Alex Rocha-Alvarez 



**Page number(s): 27**

 27
O
n our walks to the riverbank, my father pre­
tends he is an expert commander. “Follow 
me,” he says, his feet maneuvering expertly 
over the tread marks where a tractor’s wheels have 
pressed into the earth, their weight leaving behind 
a narrow path of dried soil amid the mud. His right 
foot presses into the ground while the left one taps 
it briefly with every step, that semi-permanent 
limp from two-and-a-half decades of kneeling in 
front of strawberries with one foot in front of the 
other, always rushing to take the next step and fin­
ish the row. My little brother walks slowly behind 
him, careful not to crease his new pair of Jordans. 
I walk slowly, too, in a single file behind both of 
them, the toe of my Chuck Taylors digging into the 
places where the soil is still soft when I step. This past 
weekend’s rain, besides giving my father a few days 
off from work while the mud hardens, means that 
the Pájaro River might actually have water, and there 
might even be birds.

We cross the fence dividing our eighteen-unit 
apartment complex from the neighboring agricul­
tural fields through a jagged opening in the metal 
links that’s been there, unrepaired, for as long as I 
can remember. A ‘No Trespassing/ Private Property’ 
sign, with a small strawberry and the words ‘Reiter 
Berry Farms’ tucked in the corner, hangs above it. 
That, too, has been there, ignored, for as long as I 
can remember. “Okay, ‘manos,” my father says, 
“Duck down, we’re about to cross the border.” My 
little brother laughs and ducks behind a spot where 
overgrown grass clings to the fence, obscuring him­
self from the view of an imaginary border agent. 
My father likes to play this game because he thinks 
it makes our walks more interesting, makes it feel 
like there is some danger to what we’re doing, some 
rebellion, even though there isn’t. Most of the resi­
dents in our complex take walks through the fields, 
and the owners are probably aware. I don’t laugh 
when we play anymore; I find the game too morbid. 

We move through changing landscapes of pro­
duce. First, an acre of broccoli florets, just beginning 
to sprout. Then, a small apple orchard, dry and bar­
ren at this time of year. A solitary walnut tree. Blue­
berries and raspberries housed under white, gleam­
ing tarps. Strawberries, or at least hints of them, 
tiny pink bulbs that promise the start of the coming 
harvest season. And finally, the Pájaro River, tucked 
behind a row of wetland trees. 

My father turns to us, the lazy smile on his face 
revealing a missing incisor and chipped front tooth, 
and beckons us forward. “Por aquí, síganme. Walk 
straight forward, leave only one pair of footprints to 
throw off la migra. Otherwise, we’ll all have to run.” 
I want to tell him that it’s not funny, it’s really not 
funny, but I think it’s not my place. Instead, I roll my 
eyes and throw out an exasperated “Ay, apá” before 
taking my little brother’s hand and climbing down 
the path where my father’s feet have trampled the 
wild earth. When we reach the river, flowing with 
rain, my father points out how miraculous it is that 
we found water. He tells us to drink up. We’ll need 
to be hydrated for the rest of our journey. My little 
brother laughs and scrunches up his nose in disgust, 
remarking that river water is “so gross.” 

The stakes of this game aren’t lost on me; my 
brother and I are the only members of our family 
who were born on “this side” of things. Our entire 
lives have been sustained in and by these fields, these 
strawberries, this city filled with people from our 
could-have-been home, from elsewhere. We didn’t 
make the journey over, but inherited its promise. I 
wonder how much of his game is based in memory, 
how much in imagination. I wonder this because, 
despite my father’s desire to play-act migration with 
us, he’s never been one to divulge the specifics of his 
own journey. That’s why I don’t like to play along 
anymore: I can’t fill in the blanks. There is so much I 
don’t know, and I’m afraid that if I let myself interro­
gate his journey, my brain will conjure up some dark 
possibility I can’t disprove. Worse, I might stumble 
across something true, something painful, then wish 
I had never started turning over stones. The thought 
of it feels wrong, like picking at a scab on a wound 
that isn’t yours. Still, on our walks to the river, I look 
at my father’s face and can’t help but imagine him on 
a different journey, not smiling then, but dreaming. 
—
My father’s journey started on a tiny sliver of 
land in the arid Valle de Guadalupe in Gomez Farías, 
Michoacán, in central México. The youngest son in 
a family of four sons and five daughters, he quickly 
learned to make himself useful and to stay out of 
the way. At age nine, he dropped out of elementary

We didn’t make the journey 
over, but inherited its promise.



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Alex Rocha-Alvarez**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 28
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
school to start helping out on the rancho. He and his 
siblings were dutiful in their work: pulling weeds, 
planting crops, milking cows, and making them­
selves busy to avoid my grandfather’s drunken rages. 
Once, he found my father screwing around in their 
driveway with a slingshot, and nearly ran him over 
with his truck. That memory is now a jagged pale 
scar protruding from the right side of my father’s 
forehead, always with him. Everything I know about 
my father’s childhood and adolescence comes to me 
like this—in scars and half-stories, missing all the 
hows and whys. 

What I do know is this: my father grew up sur­
rounded by people in a state of constant fear—and 
buried beneath, hope. He came of age in the after­
math of the Dirty War, the name given to the Mex­
ican theater of the Cold War, during which U.S.-
backed government forces disappeared an estimated 
1,200 of their own citizens due to suspected political 
opposition. The Institutional Revolutionary Party 
(PRI) was supported by CIA officers who served as 
station chiefs in México City as late as 1969, the year 
after tensions between the government and leftist 
guerrilla and student groups peaked at the Tlatelolco 
Massacre. On October 2, 1968, police officers and 
soldiers shot into a crowd of unarmed student pro­
testors, killing at least 300. My father was born four 
years after this massacre and six years before the 
legalization of left-wing political parties officially 
ended the Dirty War. 

Despite the government’s attempts to eradicate 
its rebels, México’s revolutionary spirit kept break­
ing ground, like a weed whose roots are planted 
firmly into the soil. Two decades after the end of 
the Dirty War, the newly-emerging leftist Zapatista 
National Liberation Army began organizing against 
the still-ruling PRI on a platform demanding land 
rights and political autonomy for Indigenous peo­
ple. In 1994, on the day NAFTA came into effect, 
dissolving the trade border between México and the 
United States, the Zapatistas declared war against the 
state with their battle cry: La tierra es del quien la tra­
baja. The Zapatistas demanded “work, land, housing, 
food, healthcare, education, independence, freedom, 
democracy, justice, and peace.” 

Like most people who grew up poor in third-
world conditions, my father understands that capital­
ism necessitates dispossession; the patrones need the 
laborers with the bodies to use and discard. When 
I think about this, I get the urge to lie down. My 
father keeps on instead. He buys bags of oranges 
from the trunks of street vendors’ cars to make their 
days a little shorter, and then gives a dollar and the 
ripest ones to his primos, the unhoused men who lin­
ger at the margins of our intersections with cups full 
of pennies and dimes. I’ve always believed that my 
father should have been a Zapatista—he is, in prac­
tice, the most radical person I know—but he wasn’t. 
Because he came of age as the families of victims of 
state violence demanded answers and accountability 
from the Mexican government, he knew it was safest 
not to get involved.

As the Zapatistas attempted to appeal to campesi­
nos’  ties to the land they cultivated, my father wit­
nessed the men in his village disappear to work in 
foreign lands. This was not a new phenomenon; 
every spring during his childhood, busloads of brace­
ros were picked up from the station in Morelia,  off to 
labor in the fields of California, Arizona, Texas, and 
New Mexico, and dropped off again in the fall. But 
now small towns all over México were emptying out. 
Once you left, you weren’t coming back. 

Up until the nineteen nineties, crossing the border 
both ways was relatively straightforward: you paid a 
coyote to smuggle you over, came back, rinsed and 
repeated. But with the ending of the bracero pro­
gram and the militarization of the southern border, 
deportation was becoming a new beast, and people 
who made it to the United States were incentivized 
to settle down there. No longer welcome on the land 
they’d been working for decades, the men of my 
father’s village figured out ways to get to the “other 
side” for a share of its promise, without the possi­
bility of return. Many of them found their way to 
California’s Central Valley, vying for a home around 
the fields where their fathers had labored as braceros 
before them. 

In 1997, my father married my mother in Gomez 
Farías, and later had his first daughter. With a fam­
ily to support, it quickly became clear that it was his 
turn to make the journey over. Two of his broth­
ers and three of his sisters had already migrated to 
a small town on the coast of Central California, a 
town whose name was whispered like a hand-me-
down promise in the villages of Michoacán. Watson­
ville: A promise of work, of money, of better, if not 
good. So, my father prepared to make the trek up 
to Tijuana, where he would pay a coyote to smug­
gle him through the urban crossing. Then he would 
hitch a ride from San Diego to Watsonville, where he 
would sleep on a mattress on the floor of his broth­
er’s apartment until he raised enough money to pay 


--- Page 29 ---

ART & DESIGN BY ALLY SOONG
NOVEMBER 2021
 29
for his wife and daughter’s journey north. It sounded 
simple enough, but my father knew it wasn’t. 

Over the last decade, as the United States milita­
rized its southern border, more and more stories of 
terrible things happening during people’s journeys 
north trickled down to my father’s village. The sto­
ries were repeated, exaggerated, made into myths. 
It’s a bit like my father’s game on our walks to the 
river: part reality and part imagination. Somebody 
got their organs scoped out in Jalisco, somebody got 
their legs stuck under a train’s wheels in Chiapas, 
somebody died of dehydration hidden under a seat in 
Sonora. Nobody really knew what happened on the 
journey north except those who made it out, but that 
didn’t stop people from guessing. 

What is true is this: since 1993, the United States 
government has benefitted from making the journey 
north more treacherous for migrants. After pass­
ing the North American Free Trade Agreement to 
make crossing the border easier for merchandise, 
President Bill Clinton made it harder for migrants. 
Stadium lights went up, shining into Tijuana. More 
armed Border Patrol agents and advanced surveil­
lance equipment turned the border region into a 
war zone. Thermal-imaging devices, motion detec­
tors, in-ground sensors, and biometric scanners 
were employed at urban border crossings to deter 
migrants. The goal was to force migrants to cross 
instead through the  South Texas flatlands or the 
Arizona desert, a longer, more dangerous journey 
under scorching heat. Clinton’s Immigration and 
Naturalization Service Commissioner Doris Meis­
sner claimed during the Immigration and Natural­
ization Service’s annual death-watch update that the 
“geography” of the southern border was an “ally” of 
the United States. 

According to the Border Patrol, just under 8,000 
migrants turned up dead in the desert between 1998 
and 2020. That’s one a day, pretty much every day, 
for the last twenty years. I feel lucky that none of 
them were my father. But I feel devastatingly sad 
when I think about the number 8,000, and all the 
others who may never be found, their bodies stuck 
between home and their destination, never fulfilling 
the promise of arrival. 

—
I’ve never been to Gomez Farías, but I see it in my 
dreams. I close my eyes and enter dusty valleys, walk 
down sepia-tinted dirt roads, look up at ripe-green 
avocados clustered on trees angled towards the sun. 
Some of what I see is real—a replica of the landscape 
that is burnt onto my retinas from spending hours on 
Google Earth, dropping the little explorer into every 
street of my father’s town, making him take the walks 
my father took—from my father’s cotton-candy pink 
terracotta home to the kindergarten near San Antonio 
Ocampo where he learned to count. Mostly, though, 
the dreams are superimposed on the terrains of my 
own hometown, on the landscapes where I strut in 
my Chucks and Zara jeans, where I steal blueberries 
from vines and stare at an empty riverbed. I know 


--- Page 30 ---

 30
it’s México only because even in my dreams I feel 
foreign there. 

In my favorite dream, I wake up in a bed that looks 
like mine but isn’t, a bed inside that pink house that 
could have been mine if times had been different, 
and to a rooster crowing outside my window. I drag 
myself out of bed with leaden legs, and the convic­
tion of someone who knows she’s got shit to do. I 
walk into a living room that looks like the one at my 
grandmother’s house in Watsonville, and my father 
is cutting fruit into tiny pieces. He smiles but doesn’t 
speak; I sit at the kitchen table and look out the win­
dow toward dry flatlands that never stay flat for long. 
Before my eyes, the landscape morphs, pixelates like 
the images on Google Earth do when I make the lit­
tle explorer walk, and hills pop up out of the ground 
like unwanted zits. This part of the dream makes me 
anxious, although I’m not sure why. Once the curves 
of Mount Madonna and the California skyline appear 
outside the window, the landscape doesn’t go flat 
again. Then my dream is over, and when I wake up, 
I’m back in my own bed, in my own house, in this 
town that has always been mine.  

I’m grateful that my roots are deeply planted in a 
place from which I can’t be taken, that my body won’t 
have to risk its survival to cross any border, but I still 
feel like there’s something crucial that I’m missing; 
like the gap between my father and me is unbreach­
able, spanning across miles of terrain and through the 
years between us, like I’ll never see the world the way 
he does. My father is all make-do and make-believe 
and make-the-best-of-a-bad-situation. I’ve inher­
ited his dream of success and safety, of growing roots 
into this new land of promise, but all of these ideals 
look different to me. I want to make-better. I want to 
make-move and make-shake and make-the-whole-
system-burn-goddammit! I don’t think this differ­
ence is inherent to us; I think it’s all circumstantial, 
tied to the landscapes on which we are planted and 
watered. These borders are not real, but the possibili­
ties that separate them are, the ones that make people 
cross through miles of arid desert without water or 
protection for a taste of what’s on the other side. 

My father’s eyes are hard and warm; he is easy to 
love, but harder to understand. He offers love to me 
in bowls of chopped papaya, triangle shaped straw­
berries, jicama cut into little strips, raspberries stolen 
from the fields we call a backyard. He is anxious and 
overprotective, says things like “ten cuidado, be care­
ful; be home before dark; don’t get involved, don’t 
fight back, just follow directions; don’t forget to 
look under your car for assaulters before you get in 
so nobody slices your ankles; te quiero mucho, mija.” 
As his daughter, a girl who just wants to experience 
a world that’s mostly been kind to her, it’s kind of 
annoying. As his daughter, a girl who sees herself as 
an extension of his dreams, his journey, it’s devastat­
ing. I can only reply, “Okay, okay, I’ll try, okay, yo 
también lo quiero, apá.” He has been through a lot. I 
can tell by the way he moves, slow and calculated, 
always wanting to know where his foot will land 
before taking his next step. 

I have been through a lot, too, if measured in a 
different pitcher. When I walk, I am not ladylike, 
and rarely graceful, but I am nervous like him. I 
let the heel of my shoes hit the ground first. I don’t 
make noise; I don’t want to leave a trace. In Novem­
ber of 2016, when I was a junior in high school, I 
told my father I was heading to the ‘Not Our Pres­
ident’ demonstration in Oakland, and he told me I 
would never see him again. I rolled my eyes, said 
“apá, it’s my right” without considering that, in his 
world, it wasn’t. In his world, university student pro­
testors were shot by soldiers in broad daylight and 
never came home. I get it now, mostly, because it’s 
my world, too. I inhabit it through the fragments of 
him I can grasp, through the history I’ve imposed 
onto them in an attempt to make them whole, and 
through my own memories of seeing protestors on 
screens fall to the ground to the tune of rubber bul­
lets and tear gas and the National Guard filling our 
streets. Like a stained-glass window, the fragmented 
pieces of our experiences come together and tint my 
world a different color. 

Alex Rocha-Alvarez is a senior in Saybrook College

These borders are not real, but 
the possibilities that separate 
them are, the ones that make 
people cross through miles of 
arid desert without water or 
protection for a taste of what’s 
on the other side. 



**Title: PACEBREAKER**
**Author: JOHN NGUYEN**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Each time my mother wraps an eggroll,
another piece of a new story shatters. Glass
noodles, pork, carrots, cabbage, all clothed in fleshy
paper—a beige soft as old book pages. Masterchef go
cooking school, but Ma no need! she often boasts.
An aspiring singer-zitherist in a past
life, my mother now performs
other forms of art. There’s the cooking on the side, 
then her main job: assembly line work. Ma inspects 
constituent microscopic pieces that when sculpted 
into a pacemaker will keep a stranger’s heart pumping.
Eight hours later, my mother returns
home and starts to create. Floating in the steel 
stockpot of vegetable oil, the eggrolls become
gold with tender magic, as of a silk dress. 
Two dollars for each piece 
of my mother. The factory, the eggroll-crafting—
both have bedeviled her hands with a human
-made darkness: carpal tunnel syndrome.
Later, after she’s finished
all her other art—laundry, dishes, orchid-watering,
husband-and-child-handling—long after these,
in the violet night, Ma reposes on the bed, 
blanketless, and within five minutes she is snoring—
her belly button rising and
returning, like the climax of a song.
Now and then, Ma asks me to lie
down, sleep next to her: Ma can’t see you 
a lot. You always have no time. Please? But I decline: 
Your snoring is loud. I mean it jokingly, of course. 
But words can pierce at odd angles. Loud:
implicitly annoying. The snores, and the snorer.
Language is layered 
like busyness, of which there are two types,
mine and Ma’s.
Needless to say, I’m an ignorant son—
that is, just a son. Now I lie in my own bed,
wrapped in my own blanket, beneath the stars
and beside them, a million sleeping mothers 
from home. I lie here, as someone who’s worth 
each beautifully cracking wrist, and wonder: 
Hasn’t she been dreaming all this time?


**Title: BOSTON BOUND**
**Author: IDONE RHODES**
**Page number(s): 32**

Outside the train window, the sun blurs out pink across industrial New England. Old factories and local mari­
nas glow; people are barbecuing in their backyards, riding their bikes, sailing their boats as I surge past towards 
Boston. These people who live on the water in the summer and watch the leaves turn red and then wither—I am 
supposed to be one of them. It makes me worry that when I get home, it will not feel the same. Have you ever 
recognized a face but forgotten the name that goes with it? The Acela gets stuck outside of Providence for twenty 
minutes, and there’s no cell connection to tell my dad I’m going to be late getting into the station. This feels like 
a bad omen, and I listen to California by Joni Mitchell because it reminds me of a homecoming to a foreign place. 
Will you take me as I am?


**Title: AFTER THE SURPRISE PARTY**
**Author: ELENA UNGER**
**Page number(s): 33**

How does one capture the feeling
of being made to feel 
like a moon—cratered and whole,
a silvered face, catching 
and returning lemon-laced sun.
It’s a gift to know your light 
reaches the soil. A gift to see 
the imprint of your touch. 
I felt the way you all felt me
when I saw you assembled 
like a fated family.
Each of you standing in the 
dark of my dorm, 
woven between strands
of love hung streamers. 


**Title: MY BEST FRIEND LIKES TO SLEEP IN THE DARK**

She wraps a t-shirt around her eyes
and the budding moon wanes 
to a yawning black—
a personal eclipse of sorts.
To her, even the smallest sliver 
of light is too tempting. 
The mere prospect of day
will excite her to life 
before she has a moment to rest.   
The murmur of starlight
and the cluck of the sun 
make her so hungry 
to change the world,
she can’t bear to lie still.



**Title: CODING COMBAT**
**Author: Yonatan Greenberg**
**Page number(s): 34-35**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
From Harvard came Facebook, from Stanford 
came Google. Will Yale be next to gain Silicon Val­
ley fame?

On a Sunday afternoon in mid-September, a 
group of twenty-odd students gathered in an other­
wise empty Watson Center. Staring intently at their 
screens and typing in silent determination, the stu­
dents worked with unwavering focus on their con­
tribution to the internet’s next major site. Welcome 
to the future, readers. Marvin Kombat Bulldog Bash 
lies just around the corner.

Students in Amoriem Labs, a video game design 
club of undergraduates, are developing a Yale-
themed street fighter game, akin to a simplified Super 
Smash Bros or Tekken. Instead of dueling with Kirby, 
Peach or Falco, however, players of this soon-to-
drop game will fight as Marvin Chun, Peter Salovey 
or Handsome Dan, throwing punches and dodging 
fire-powered blows on a pixelated replica of Yale’s 
campus. 

Modeled after nineteen-eighties video and arcade 
games, Marvin Kombat Bulldog Bash can be played 
as a “local multiplayer,” in which opposing players 
control their respective fighters from opposite sides 
of the same keyboard. Two students sitting next to 
each other in section mashing away on the same key­
board might have a hard time avoiding detection by 
their professor, but club leaders have tentative plans 
to make single-player and online multiplayer ver­
sions as well.

Eric Doddy, a club member majoring in art, 
demonstrates the process by which he creates the 
Salovey, Chun and Handsome Dan images. After he 
sketches the characters on paper, he recreates them 
on his tablet with remarkable precision. Perhaps most 
impressive are Amoriem’s Salovey and Chun avatars: 
though the two differ by little other than hair color, 
most students will likely be able to easily identify the 
two.

To simulate continuous movement in the avatars, 
the game toggles rapidly between a set of hand-
drawn frames. When players unleash their attacks 
and behold, say, their Salovey character launching 
a lethal kick, they are really watching the program 
rotate rapidly through a series of images: Salovey 
standing upright, Salovey half-way through his kick, 
Salovey finishing his kick. Be it Handsome Dan 
blocking a punch or Marvin Chun jumping through 
the air, every movement of each character requires 
its own unique set of drawings. If the game’s cre­
ators continue to add features to the game—a chicken 
tender attack and DUO mobile buffering traps are 
among the proposals under consideration—even 
more frames will be required.

Amoriem’s scrupulous attention to detail can 
also be seen in the game’s audio, which features a  
backdrop of independently-composed music. Ethan 
Pesikoff, a junior majoring in Math and Near Eastern 
Languages and Civilizations, did much of the work 
to create the game’s current soundtrack. He says the 
music for Bulldog Bash is inspired by a Balkan folk 
music band—Taraf de Haidouks—that he “really likes 
a lot.” To make the music for the game, Pesikoff 
begins by composing a melody and writing out the 
notes—he does so on a computer program but points 
out a student to his right who was doing the same 
with a pencil and a piece of paper—and then adapts 
the tune to match the game’s retro style. In its cur­
rent form, the music’s computer-generated notes 
carry the energy of Halloween-themed trance music 
written for pre-2000 Nintendo.

One possible issue the club could face is its use of 
the names and likenesses of university officials. Asked 
whether she was concerned about such a prospect, 
student leader Christie Yu was undisturbed. “Worst 
case I think we can just change Peter Salovey to Seter 
Palovey or something like that,” Yu said. 

The creators of Bulldog Bash expect the game’s 
old-school style to be popular among students, but 
the design’s simplicity also makes the avatars’ move­
ments easier to replicate. “The pixelated style gives us 
more room for our own input,” Doddy says. On his 
screen he pulls up a series of hyper-detailed drawings 
he has sketched for other games—mystical-looking 
knight characters with cloaks and long daggers—and 
explains how labor-intensive it would be to hand-
draw the necessary number of frames for such elabo­
rately-drawn characters. The game’s relative simplic­
ity also gestures to the club’s main goal: to provide 
interested students with a space to develop their 
game-designing skills. 

In their north campus meeting spot, the club’s 
members sit around rectangular arrays of tables and 
form mini-departments of impressive efficiency—the 
musical composition team sits at a set of tables in the 
room’s center, with the graphic design team across 
from them and the coding team to their left. With 
nearly two dozen students working on the game at 
once, the group maintains levels of focus and con­
centration reserved usually for final exams; rarely 
was the quiet clatter of steady typing interrupted by 
anything louder than a cough. Halfway through the 
meeting, Isabella Yang, a student-leader working on 
Planet 112—a space colonization game that Amor­
iem is also creating—suggested to her team that they 
take a short break. The students in her group quickly 
clicked onto other tabs, closed their laptops, or qui­
etly pushed out their chairs to stretch their legs for 
the prescribed rest. No such breaks were announced 
on the other side of the room, where the club mem­
bers continued working with tireless commitment 
on their chicken tender assaults and Handsome Dan 
defenses. Though a far cry from The Social Network’s 
scenes of adrenaline-fueled coding marathons inter­
rupted only by shots of vodka and the cheers of beau­
tiful women, the group impresses in its own way.

As to when exactly the game will be available to 
play: Yu shares a concerned look with the clubmate 
to her left. “I mean, we say it every year but … defi­
nitely this year.” She pauses, then nods vigorously 
twice. “Definitely this year. For sure.”

Yonatan Greenberg is a junior in Saybrook College.


