Publication date: MAY 2021
Volume: 53
Issue number: 5

**MASTHEAD:**
- Editors-In-Chief: Alexandra Galloway, Zachary Groz
- Executive Editor: Jack Delaney
- Managing Editor: Eli Mennerick
- Associate Editors: Nicole Dirks, Jesse Goodman, Rose Horowitch, Caroleine James, Noa Rosinplotz, Dereen Shirnekhi, Will Sutherland, JD Wright, Katherine Yao
- Senior Editors: Beasie Goddu, Madison Hahamy
- Copy Editors: Meg Buzbee, Anna Fleming, Ella Goldblum, Kaylee Walsh
- Creative Director: Annli Nakayama
- Design Editors: Brian Chang, Ada Griffin, Ally Soong
- Illustrators: Alice Mao, Sydney Zoehrer
- Members and Directors: Emily Bazelon, Peter Cooper, Jonathan Dach, Kathrin Lassila, Eric Rutkow, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, Fred Strebeigh, Aliyya Swaby
- Advisors: Neela Banerjee, Richard Bradley, Susan Braudy, Lincoln Caplan, Jay Carney, Andy Court, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Susan Dominus, David Greenberg, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Laura Pappano, Jennifer Pitts, Julia Preston, Lauren Rawbin, David Slifka, John Swansburg, Anya Kamenetz, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Nicole Allan, Margaret Bauer, Mark Badger and Laura Heymann, Susan Braudy, Julia Calagiovanni, Elisha Cooper, Haley Cohen, Peter Cooper, Andy Court, The Elizabethan Club, Leslie Dach, David Freeman and Judith Gingold, Paul Haigney and Tracey Roberts, Bob Lamm, James Liberman, Alka Mansukhani, Benjamin Mueller, Sophia Nguyen, Valerie Nierenberg, Morris Panner, Jennifer Pitts, R. Anthony Reese, Eric Rutkow, Lainie Rutkow, Laura Saavedra and David Buckley, Anne-Marie Slaughter, Elizabeth Sledge, Caroline Smith, Gabriel Snyder, Elizabeth Steig, Aliyya Swaby, John Jeremiah Sullivan, Daphne and David Sydney, Kristian and Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Townsend Wilson, Daniel Yergin, William Yuen


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**

cover - SAFE AS HOUSES
feature - BY THE BOOK
points of departure - STANDARDS
snapshots - EYE CANDY
snapshots - FREE MARKET
snapshots - A PLACE TO LINGER
snapshots - OLD WORLD, NEW HAVEN
snapshots - ACTS OF SERVICE
poem - PARTING
critical angle - SCHOOL WAS THE LAST THING ON MY MIND
essays - IMAGINING MYSELF
essays - ON GIANTS’ SHOULDERS
endnote - JUICY DETAILS


**Title: SAFE AS HOUSES**
**Author: Zachary Groz**
**Page number(s): cover**
Between bidding wars and evictions, 
Connecticut’s housing market has 
never been more distorted.


**Title: BY THE BOOK**
**Author: Noa Rosinplotz**
**Page number(s): 30**
What The Ethical Investor, Yale’s 
investing Bible, means for divestment.


**Title: STANDARDS**
**Author: Kaylee Walsh**
**Page number(s): 4**
points of departure


**Title: EYE CANDY**
**Author: Nicole Dirks**
**Page number(s): 6**
snapshots


**Title: FREE MARKET**
**Author: Frank Lukens**
**Page number(s): 8**


**Title: A PLACE TO LINGER**
**Author: Lillian Yuan**
**Page number(s): 12**


**Title: OLD WORLD, NEW HAVEN**
**Author: Avik Sarkar**
**Page number(s): 16**


**Title: ACTS OF SERVICE**
**Author: Kanyinsola Anifowoshe**
**Page number(s): 19**


**Title: PARTING**
**Author: Beasie Goddu**
**Page number(s): 20**
poem


**Title: SCHOOL WAS THE LAST THING ON MY MIND**
**Author: Abraham Keita**
**Page number(s): 24**
critical angle


**Title: IMAGINING MYSELF**
**Author: Jack Tripp**
**Page number(s): 35**
essays


**Title: ON GIANTS’ SHOULDERS**
**Author: Eli Mennerick**
**Page number(s): 38**


**Title: JUICY DETAILS**
**Author:  **
**Page number(s): 42**
endnote



**Eye Candy**
**Author: Noa Rosinplotz**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Instagram chile oil isn’t too 
spicy, Instagram birria is veg­
etarian, and Instagram paletas 
don’t melt. On the social media 
accounts of chefs, restaurants, 
and food magazines, food exists 
in a hyper-distilled form—smell-
less, taste-less, free, and in quan­
tities greater than any person 
could ever eat at once. It can be 
consumed visually over and over 
again, with captions that evoke 
taste by flagrantly overusing 
adjectives: A scallion dressing is 
“scalliony,” pudding is “milky,” 
bread is “pillowy.” Bizarre com­
binations don’t sound too bad 
at all: a dense, floaty, choco­
latey, cardamom-inflected stew. 
A snacky tangle of sugar-dusted 
cabbage and sweet-sour yogurt. 
The best food pictures are messy 
in a way that suggests abun­
dance: overflowing sandwiches 
or tall scoops of ice cream drip­


ping a little down the cone, but 
not enough to make your fingers 
sticky. You can eat breakfast and 
lunch and dinner from five dif­
ferent restaurants, because you 
never get full when you’re eating 
on Instagram. Nonetheless, even 
in pictures, food carries a heavy 
cultural weight. The things we 
eat can’t be separated from their 
history and politics, even when 
stripped of their physical form.


businesses. “Instagram and social 
media has been a very demo­
cratic place for chefs, who don’t 
have investors, to have a voice,” 
she said. Not everyone can buy 
a multi-million dollar restaurant 
space, but a camera and some 
good lighting are pretty easy to 
come by, and new restaurants 
can advertise on social media for 
a fraction of the cost of a TV spot. 
Cheng also discussed additional 
pressures placed on chefs of color, 
including the implicit assump­
tion that their food will be cheap, 
or will recreate some kind of 
photo-friendly street food expe­
rience. “People say their food 
should be two dollars,” she said. 
“White chefs don’t get docked 
for experimentation.” 
For better or worse, social 
media imposes a new kind of 
structure. Almost any food that 
makes it to the platform is pal­
atable to the eyes, which gener­
ally means it’s been aesthetically 
flattened, placed in front of an art 
wall or held up against a skyline. 
In Restaurant Business’s 2020 arti­
cle “Easing Into Ethnic Eating,” a 
guide for “getting customers on 
board with emerging cuisines,” 
the first tip is to make the food 
“visually appealing.” The author 
quotes the owner of a Balkan 
restaurant who has learned to 
take a “visual-first” approach, 
plating dishes alongside color­
ful sides and posting pictures on 
Instagram. “The city has a lot of 
traditional mom-and-pop Balkan 
restaurants, but I wanted to give 
the food a contemporary spin—
make it inviting while keep­
ing the integrity of the dishes,” 
Loryn Nalic told the publication. 
Her St. Louis restaurant, Balkan 
Treat Box, regularly posts pic­
tures of their flatbreads on beau­
tiful wooden boards, and has an 
astounding fourteen thousand 
followers. 
While the internet has no 
shortage of cappuccino pictures, 
most online food content features 
what’s traditionally called ethnic 
food in the United States—food 
that’s often cooked by immi­
grants and their children. An 
informal survey by Chef’s Pen­
cil in February showed that the 
top food hashtag on Instagram 
is #JapaneseFood, followed by 
#ItalianFood, with #IndianFood, 
#KoreanFood, and #Thaifood 
coming in third, fourth, and fifth. 
The prevalence of ethnic food on 
Instagram implies a need to reas­
sure white American customers 
that something that sounds dif­
ferent can still be delicious, a sort 
of visual verification of the unfa­
miliar.
In addition to her work, 
Cheng runs her own Instagram, 
@achg.kitchen, which has a loyal 
following of Yale students and 
food professionals. Although she 
posted stand-alone pictures of 
food fairly frequently before the 
pandemic, on March 18, 2020, 
she debuted a new kind of post, 
focused on food history and crit­
ical analysis. The first slide is a 
picture of crispy, roasted okra 
next to two lemon slices. Four 
screenshots of her Notes app 
follow, which taught me that 
okra has been traced as far back 
as twelfth century Ethiopia and 
was brought to the Americas 
by enslaved people. In the post, 
Cheng explains how fat politics 
and race intersect in traditional 
Southern cooking, which often 
incorporates okra. As she points 
out, the “‘health-oriented’ food 
shaming” associated with South­
ern food like fried chicken is 
rarely applied to food from other 
cuisines with similar nutritional 
content, such as Eggplant Par­
mesan. Other posts reckon with 
the history of takeout and the 
presence of anti-Blackness in 
Asian immigrant-owned restau­
rants, rice cultivation and cli­
mate change, and “the mid-2000s 
bacon obsession.” By putting 
the description front and center 
instead of relegating it to a cap­
tion or the comments, Cheng 
makes it clear that food is insep­
arable from its roots, connota­
tions, history, and production. 
What we actually eat is layered 
behind pictures and captions. “A 
huge proportion of Americans 
are related to the food industry,” 
she said. “And we all eat.” 
The scoops of edible cookie 
dough on my feed were scooped 
by someone, and the sugarcane 
for the sugar inside it was also 
harvested by someone, and that 
sugarcane plant was brought 
from Southeast Asia to China to 
Portugal and then to Brazil and 
finally Louisiana, where indig­
enous and African people were 
enslaved in order to produce the 
“white gold” that, years later, 
ended up inside the edible cookie 
dough that never goes bad on 
Instagram.
— Noa Rosinplotz is a junior in 
Ezra Stiles College and an Associate 
Editor of The New Journal.


**Free Market**
**Author: Kaylee Walsh**
**Page number(s): 6**

Looking around my room, I 
find it is full of things I don’t need 
anymore: the shoes I recently 
bought online that are just a lit­
tle too tight, the stack of books 
I’ve read and probably will never 
pick-up again, the hair accesso­
ries that don’t mesh well with my 
new haircut. Some of these items 
certainly might be more useful to 
someone else. But where is the 
best place that they could go?


For many New Haven resi­
dents, the answer to this question 
is simple. The Buy Nothing New 
Haven group on Facebook, with 
over a thousand members, offers 
community members an opportu­
nity to give away items they no 
longer need. Members can also 
ask for items or services that they 
want—a plant-sitter, dog food, 
children’s clothes. The group, run 
by admins Rai Darwinsdottir and 
Catherine McGuinness, is a part 
of a global project, with chap­
ters across the United States and 
beyond.


At the core of the project is a 
push to prevent people from pur­
chasing new items or throwing 
away unwanted, but still func­
tional, ones. In a world where 
people tend to over-consume— 
with 
websites 
like 
Amazon 
whereone can purchase almost 
anything and expect it at their 
door in a few days—this group 
aims to prove that there are other, 
more sustainable ways to give and 
receive. And unlike thrift stores 
or online markets like Facebook 
Marketplace, no one involved in 
Buy Nothing makes any money. 
In the words of Alexa Carey, a 
Buy Nothing Global Team Mem­
ber, the gift-exchanging project 
is “revolutionary.”


The 
COVID-19 
pandemic, 
however, 
has 
both 
limited 
Buy Nothing’s in-person gift 
exchanges and provoked a greater 
need for those gifts. “We really 
didn’t know how to respond,” 
Carey told me. She called the 
Buy Nothing group a “lifeline” 
for people struggling financially. 
“Because [Buy Nothing groups] 
are gift economies, they were 
essential to people,” she said.  
In a statement on the Buy Noth­
ing Project website from March 
2020, co-founders Liesl Clark and 
Rebecca Rockefeller required that 
all local groups adhere to the gov­
ernment guidelines in their area. 
When gift giving was not possi­
ble, they encouraged more “gifts 
of self,” like checking in on fellow 
group members, especially those 
who might live alone, over the 
phone or video chat. “We know 



**A Place to Linger**
**Author: Nicole Dirks**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
On a mellow afternoon in 
early April, the Downtown Eve­
ning Soup Kitchen’s new drop-in 
center hosted its soft opening. 
A sign in an archetypal Home­
goods-Mom style hung above 
my head, fiercely combining 
both Comic Sans and cursive: 
COFFEE, PRAYER & CON­
VERSATION 
Always welcome here.

And it was right, minus the 
prayer: coffee and conversa­
tion dominated the space. Even 
though clients came for a vari­
ety of reasons—food, outlets, 
Wi-Fi, the bathroom—everyone, 
it seemed, ended up moving from 
a water-hungry Keurig to seating 
areas where other peers and vol­
unteers perched.

The space was smaller than I 
expected—more a room than a 
floor. It was cozier than antici­
pated, too, in part due to its fur­
nishings: orange chairs tucked 
into green-marbled tables, red 
brick walls, blue-grey-tiled floors 
interspersed 
with 
red-painted 
support columns, a satisfyingly 
full bookshelf, and stacked boxes 
of board games. There was no 
immediate evidence that the 
room was formerly home to a 
dog grooming salon, a (human) 
hair salon, and a businessmen’s 
lunch club at various points in 
time.

I volunteered on the fifth day of 
operation at the new Downtown 
Evening Soup Kitchen (DESK) 
location at 266 State Street. It was 
my first day there. Before, in the 
few days since opening, only two 
or three people had wandered 
in, my supervisor told me––but 
today, seven or eight clients 
gradually gathered in the space. 
After showing me a series of 
adorable cat TikToks on his 
phone, one client, seated by him­
self with a French vanilla roast 
from the Keurig, invited me to 
ask him questions. He provided 
an answer before I asked any.
“It’s hard to find a place to be,” 
he said. “I’ve been homeless for 
twenty-five years. I think that’s 
the hardest thing.” 


The Downtown Evening Soup 
Kitchen has provided food assis­
tance out of the basement of the 
Parish House of Center Church 
on Temple Street (steps from the 
Green) since 1987, born from 
an era of welfare cutbacks that 
caused a soup kitchen resurgence 
not seen since the Great Depres­
sion. While the church is still in a 
convenient location for the pop­
ulation it serves, the space is both 
cramped and hard to access, a set 
of stairs being the only entrance 
to the underground dining space. 
When the doors open at meal­
times, clients tend to grab their 
food and go—there is little lin­
gering, according Steve Werlin, 
DESK’s Executive Director. This 
makes it even harder for service 
workers, like mental health coun­
sellors, to connect with clients in 
an already-crowded space. The 
Parish House location will con­
tinue to serve meals to clients, but 
the new space on State Street will 
supplement it outside of meal­
times with designated floors for 
both basic and higher-level ser­
vices. 

The new location is only two 
blocks from the Green, nestled 
between Café Nine and a tattoo 
parlor, ShowOff Ink Artistry. 
While looking for a building to 
buy, in addition to securing a 
spot on prime real estate in prox­
imity to the Green, DESK’s lead­
ership had looked for neighbors 
who would not feel hindered by 
the presence of the drop-in cen­
ter. 

Restaurants, studios, and bou­
tiques are generally not ideal 
neighbors, according to Werlin, 
because of their dependence on 
people walking around between 
stores, who may be deterred by 
the presence of clients at a place 
like DESK. The 266 State Street 
location is advantageous because 
it has no neighbours across the 
street; instead, there’s a park. 
ShowOff Ink Artistry mainly 
serves repeating customers, less 
so roaming pedestrians, and Café 
Nine serves customers in the eve­
nings when DESK’s doors are 
closed.

“We want to be good neigh­
bors,” said Werlin. “We want to 
ensure that this is a service that 
is a net gain for them, for the 
neighborhood and for the com­
munity.” Werlin cited bathrooms 
as an example. “All these busi­
nesses that don’t want people 
who are on the street coming in 
to use the bathroom. Well, here’s 
a solution for that.”

The drop-in center’s first floor 
has been designed precisely to 
provide a place to be for its cli­
ents. It will be an air-conditioned 
haven in hot summers, a heated 
one in the winters, and a host 
year-round for restrooms, show­
ers, food, beverages, Wi-Fi, and 
social interaction.

Soon, a second floor will open 
that 
will 
provide 
designated 
spaces for mental health counsel­
ling, health care, meetings with 
caseworkers, and other support 
from New Haven organizations,


**Buy Nothing Project**
**Author: Kaylee Walsh**
**Page number(s): 7**

how important it is for us to stay 
connected to each other, to look 
out for each other, in as many safe 
ways as possible,” they wrote. 

Still, local groups had to deter­
mine if they would allow con­
tactless sharing of essential items, 
and how they would change their 
restrictions over time. In New 
Haven, Darwinsdottir explained 
they 
have 
transitioned 
entirely to porch pick-up, with 
no face-to-face contact. While 
this change has limited the abil­
ity of members of the community 
to interact with one another, she 
is grateful that the project can 
continue. “I don’t think it has 
changed the core of the resulting 
project, but [face-to-face interac­
tion] is something that we would 
like to do again once this is over,” 
she told me.

Looking back on the proj­
ect before the pandemic, Carey 
fondly remembered her first gift 
exchange, back when she was 
starting her own group in 2015, 
in South Windsor, Connecticut. 
She received a French press, but 
to Carey, the material gain of a 
new appliance was not the most 
important part of the interaction. 
“I went in, and then I met her kids, 
and I met her cat, and they were 
asking me all these questions and 
it was just really fun,” she recalled. 
“We’re friends to this day. And I 
guess that her friendship is some­
thing that I value more than the 
French press.”

Darwinsdottir similarly recalled 
one of her first exchanges, in 
which she gave away a baby toy 
to another community member. 
“I remember that a mom asked for 
it, and then she sent me a picture 
of her baby playing with the toy,” 
she explained. Given the joy she 
felt when she was able to see her 
gift put to good use, Darwinsdot­
tir encourages members in her 
group to make “gratitude posts’’ 
upon receiving a gift. “It’s always 
nice to go to the page again and 
say thank you, and maybe tell a 
story of why it helps you, or why 
you were happy with it.”

In addition to these tangi­
ble gifts, people can give other, 
non-material gifts, which Dar­
winsdottir categorized as “the 
gift of self, the gift of talent, and 
the gift of time.” One example 
she mentioned was a community 
member offering to take care of 
someone else’s plants while they 
were on vacation. To her, the 
project is much more than just a 
place to give and receive items, 
but a place to engage with one’s 
community and support others.

“Our 
interactions 
and 
our 
guests are grounded in people, 
and they’re grounded in narra­
tive,” Carey emphasized. “They’re 
not grounded in things, or in 
money… It’s wonderful, but it’s 
also really messy.” She recalled 
an instance in the South Windsor 
group when a woman who had 
just undergone a mastectomy was 
giving away her bras. “The story 
of this woman as a survivor is so 
much more important than the 
material of a bra,” she noted.

In her eyes, the Buy Nothing 
Project challenges modern-day 
consumerism, centering gratitude 
rather than material items. “Con­
sumerism is really predicated on 
this idea that we have very little, 
and that we always need more, so 
it’s about constantly filling this 
emptiness,” she said. “Gratitude is 
really the antidote to that. It tells 
us that we have enough. And that 
we have to give.”
— Kaylee Walsh is a junior in 
Jonathan Edwards College and a 
Copy Editor of The New Journal.



**A New Haven Drop-in Center for the Homeless: A Collaborative Effort**
**Author: Nicole Dirks**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
including 
Cornell 
Scott-Hill 
Health 
Center, 
Connecticut 
Mental Health Center, United 
Way of Greater New Haven, the 
Sex Workers and Allies Network, 
Columbus House, and Liberty 
Community Services. 

The roles of the two floors will 
be intertwined. While the first 
floor is designed to be welcom­
ing—and to fulfill basic needs 
outside of mealtimes—the sec­
ond will connect clients with a 
web of higher-level services that 
otherwise are not centralized in 
any one place in New Haven. 

By creating an initial space that 
is casual, there is greater incen­
tive—or, rather, fewer obsta­
cles—to engage with services 
upstairs. The combination of 
the two floors aims to weaken 
deterrents to seeking help, from 
inconvenience factors—such as 
having to locate services individ­
ually—to stigma against home­
lessness, mental health issues, and 
sex work.  

James Adu is a program man­
ager for Connecticut Mental 
Health Center who helps with 
the street psychiatry team as well 
as street outreach services. Mem­
bers of the street psychiatry team 
will be hosted on DESK’s sec­
ond floor on State Street. From a 
mental health perspective, simply 
having a confidential space will 
help mental health counsellors 
help clients, Adu says. On top of 
privacy, a welcoming first floor— 
where clients are inclined to stay 
awhile—will create an environ­
ment that might help counsellors 
develop new connections casu­
ally.

“Our role is just being there, 
engaging with the individuals 
and not forcing our services on 
people,” said Adu. “I think we 
can provide linkages, so it’s not 
that mental health is necessarily 
the be-all and end-all. It’s just 
‘Oh, okay. Well, you’ve identi­
fied these [issues]. We can help 
you with that. But if you’re not 
ready, that’s fine too.’ We can still 
engage. We can still meet down­
stairs, we can sit, have a coffee 
where you see your peers.”

Executive Director Steve Wer­
lin is overseeing much of the new 
center’s opening. He talked to me 
over Zoom from the third floor of 
the State Street building—though 
we later met at DESK, where we 
had one of those clumsy comput­
er-screen-to-reality moments of 
recognition. Planning began in 
2018, but it wasn’t until Decem­
ber of 2020 that the building 
could be purchased, thanks to 
pandemic-induced 
lower 
real 
estate prices.

“We started thinking about, 
well, if we were designing some­
thing from scratch what would 
it look like?” said Werlin of the 
brainstorm phase. “It would be 
street level. It would be highly 
visible, 
forward-facing, 
with 
windows easily visible if you’re 
walking down the street, easy to 
find, close to the Green—meeting 
people where they are both liter­
ally in terms of location, as well as 
physically in terms of everyone’s 
accessibility.”

While few linger at Center 
Church, it is the main activity in 
the new location. Most ask for no 
more than a cup of coffee before 
they sit down and start sipping 
slowly. One client just asks if it 
would be possible for him to get 
water, then more water, then 
three more refills. He also asks for 
help setting up an email account. 
He tells me he has been home­
less for a year and four months, 
but he has slept in a hotel with 
designated rooms converted into 
two-person shelter spaces during 
the pandemic. It was his first time 
visiting DESK’s new space. 

“I like this place,” he said, look­
ing past my head at the freshly 
painted walls behind me. “I don’t 
have to worry about a room­
mate here. It’s nice because with 
a roommate, maybe we don’t get 
along, or they’re coming in and 
out, or they’re using.”

Columbus 
House, 
a 
New 
Haven shelter, will have outreach 
workers connect with clients on 
DESK’s first floor. Many shel­
ters, Columbus House included, 
have moved clients into hotel 
rooms due to the incompatibil­
ity between their usual congre­
gate living arrangements and 
current public health demands. 
But during the day, clients must 
clear from hotels for them to be 
cleaned, forcing them to seek 
help elsewhere. Helpful resources, 
however, are not centralized 
cohesively in shelters, let alone 
hotels, let alone New Haven. 

One clear-eyed client spoke to 
me with great enthusiasm about 
DESK’s new space. He was look­
ing forward to a second floor that 
could provide services so close to 
a first floor where he could hang 
out. He then asked me if there 
might also be a place to sleep. I 
had to tell him no.

While the drop-in center’s 
decor is friendly, the center is also 
welcoming at a functional level. 
The center ensures there are as 
few requirements as possible for 
those who come to DESK; this 
includes a policy of not taking 
down names of clients who visit 
the center and not limiting ser­
vices based on apparent sobriety.

With a mirror on the wall to 
the right of my station, I could 
see the area behind me by slightly 
turning my head. Its purpose is 
to reflect the bathroom door. 
Although DESK is not a safe 
injection site or a medical facility 
qualified to monitor substance use 
on-site, there are procedures in 
place to respond to, in the words 
of Werlin, “the realities on the 
ground.” Prior to clients’ arrival, 
both my supervisor and a hand­
out sheet instruct me to knock on 
the bathroom door if a client is 
inside for more than three min­
utes, at which point, if there is 
no response, I should use a code 
word to ask a staff member to call 
an ambulance. There is Naloxone 
behind the snack table, should a 
client become unresponsive. 

According to Werlin, it is dif­
ficult to say whether DESK’s 
drop-in 
center 
embodies 
an 
“ideal” model for providing ser­
vices to people experiencing 
homelessness—because DESK is a 
small organization, because there 
aren’t enough workers conduct­
ing street outreach, because of 
the fluidity of the lives of those 
experiencing homelessness, and 
because of the systemic nature of 
homelessness in America.

“I think it’s a piece of the 
puzzle,” said Adu. “It definitely 
doesn’t solve the entire network, 
the centralization of homeless 
services, but it’s a start. And it’s a 
very important start.”

— Nicole Dirks is a sophomore in 
Branford College and an Associate 
Editor of The New Journal.


**Old World, New Haven**
**Author: Frank Lukens**
**Page number(s): 12**

OLD WORLD
NEW HAVEN
New Haven’s Italian American community 
grapples with Americanization 
and urban renewal.
BY FRANK LUKENS
OLD WORLD, 
SNAPSHOT



**Title: Wooster Street: A Slice of History**
**Author: Frank Lukens**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Three-quarters of the way 
down Wooster Street, past 
Sally’s Apizza and Frank 
Pepe Pizzeria Napoletana, sits 
Zeneli Pizzeria e Cucina Napole­
tana, a small, one-story storefront 
with a streetside cabin for outdoor 
seating during the pandemic. 
I walked into the restaurant at 
10:00 a.m., just as Gazmir Zeneli, 
the master pizza chef,  arrived to 
start rolling dough for the day. 
“Espresso 
or 
cappuccino?” 
asked his brother, Aleko, whose 
hospitality made me feel imme­
diately comfortable, as though 
I were a regular. With a warm 
cappuccino in hand, I watched 
Gazmir, a jolly, thirty-or-so year-
old man with dark hair and a wide 
smile, roll the fresh mass of dough 
into sizable spheres, one for each 
pie. “We make pizzas one size 
only—personal. That’s the way it 
was invented.” 
Old-fashioned. Original. Nea­
politan. That is how Zeneli bakes 
its pizzas and distinguishes itself 
from the rest of the pizza joints 
on Wooster Street. Gazmir and 
Aleko, along with their two other 
brothers Jetmir and Jeshar, are 
originally from Albania. In the 
early 
nineteen-nineties, 
when 
communism was collapsing in 
Eastern Europe, the Zeneli broth­
ers emigrated across the Adriatic 
Sea to the Naples area of Italy, 
where they spent their child­
hoods learning to craft the perfect 
pizza napoletana. Twenty-two 
years later, three of the broth­
ers emigrated again, this time 
to the United States. “After ten 
years in New York, we took the 
opportunity to move to Wooster 
Street, New Haven—the epicen­
ter of pizza,” Gazmir explained 
as he started heating up their 
enormous, 
gold-plated 
wood 
fire oven. “I bake the pizza, my 
brother Jeshar is the master cheese 
maker, and my brother Aleko is 
the people’s person.” Gazmir, 
who was the previous executive 
pizza chef at Eataly NY and two-
time world champion pizzaiolo, 
narrated the history of pizza and 
the experience he and his broth­
ers provide for their patrons: “In 
1889, Queen Margherita of Savoy 
went to Napoli and wanted to 
see how poor people ate. She was 
given a pie with tomato sauce, 
fresh mozzarella, and basil. She 
loved it. What she ate is what we 
now call Pizza Margherita, and it 
is the pizza I bake everyday.”


Growing up in suburban Flor­
ida, many of the pizzerias around 
me were American chains like 
Domino’s or Papa John’s. The 
Italian food we think of in the 
United States is vastly differ­
ent from the kind of food the 
Zeneli brothers grew up eating 
in Naples. Recently, I became 
curious to learn how Ameri­
canization 
and 
modernization 
have impacted the Italian Amer­
ican community in New Haven. 
Everyone I talked to emphasized 
two historical developments that 
have threatened the community: 
the construction of highways that 
physically ripped through New 
Haven’s Italian neighborhoods, 
and the nationwide Americaniza­
tion of traditional Italian cuisine.


The two most common routes 
for a driver into New Haven are 
interstates I-95 and I-91. Ten 
lanes each at their widest point, 
these superhighways converge 
at an intricate network of ramps, 
bridges, and overpasses, connect­
ing motorists traveling to and 
from the Elm City. In the Long 
Wharf area, these highways stand 
along 
monumental 
structures 
built to the scale of the Ameri­
can superhighway. The striking, 
familiar,  blue-and-yellow IKEA 
sits next to the gray, concrete 
Pirelli Tire Building, now under 
renovation. Looming above is 
the maroon Knights of Colum­
bus tower, Downtown’s tall­
est building. Eighty years ago, 
however, this location would 
be unrecognizable. The colossal 
scale of the interstates and mod­
ern buildings are a product of 
New Haven’s “urban renewal” 
campaign led by Mayor Richard 
C. Lee in the mid-nineteen fifties. 
It was the age of the automobile, 
and cities around the country 
responded with the construction 
of mega-highways like I-91 and 
I-95, tearing into neighborhoods 
like Wooster Square, which was 
the heart of the Italian Ameri­
can community in New Haven. 
Forced out, Italians scattered 
across various suburbs, weaken­
ing the tight-knit community 
they’d been building for decades.
“I remember my mother telling 
me Franklin Street, where I was 
born, was destroyed, along with 
everything else,” Ed Surato, a 
65-year old librarian at the New 
Haven Museum, told me. “Peo­
ple to this day are very upset with 
Mayor Lee and New Haven rede­
velopment. I can tell how much 
has drastically changed by look­
ing at photos and maps. There 
are buildings still standing [in 
the affected areas], but they’re 
in 
much 
disrepair.” 
Accord­
ing to Anthony Riccio, New 
Haven historian and self-pro­
claimed “people archaeologist,” 
Wooster Square “triggers nostal­
gia, a certain feeling for history. 
“Wooster Street... 
it’s the only visible 
vestige of the Italian 
American heritage.”


All the other neighborhoods are 
destroyed and changed. Every­
one moved to East Haven, North 
Haven, Guilford, and other sub­
urbs. There aren’t many people 
from the original neighborhood 
left. But everyone comes back to 
Wooster Street, because it’s the 
only visible vestige of the Italian 


Suburbanization in response 
to urban renewal was not the 
only factor that diluted the tradi­
tional Italian community in New 
Haven. “Everything changed,” 
Riccio emphasized, his dog bark­
ing in the background of the 
Zoom call, “when American 
corporations became involved 
in hijacking Italian food, repro­
cessing and feeding it to Ameri­
cans.” Riccio, author of The Ital­
ian American Experience in New 
Haven, grew up in New Haven 
in the nineteen-sixties and nine­
teen-seventies . He told his own 
family history and discussed how 
his grandparents’ meager diet dif­
fered greatly from the conglom­
erates—like Papa John’s or Olive 
Garden—most Americans today 
associate with Italian food. 
In the early twentieth century, 
Riccio’s 
grandparents 
immi­
grated from southern Italy to the 
Annex neighborhood of New 
Haven. The area was mostly rural 
at the time with “open land for 
farming,” according to Riccio. 
In addition to their manufac­
turing day jobs, Riccio’s grand­
parents were farmers. “They 
needed food on the table,” Ric­
cio explains. “They didn’t make 
money in the nineteen-twenties 
or nineteen-thirties. They grew 
their own tomatoes, made their 
own wine, hung their own sau­
sage, and made their own lard 
in the cellar… You didn’t waste 
anything, because what you 
grew is what you ate. My own 
diet growing up was old-world, 
plant-based, and Mediterranean 
—food with greens, beans, and 
lentils.”


By contrast, Italian food in 
the U.S. transitioned in the 
mid-twentieth century to Amer­
icanized cuisine built on conve­
nience, variety, and capacity for 
mass production. Canned ravioli, 
frozen pizza, prepared tomato 
soup, and other ready-made food 
products introduced at the time 
shaped Americans’ conception of 
Italian cuisine. Riccio insists that 
the Americanization of Italian 
food, specifically brands like Chef 
Boyardee, became much more 
popular than the simple Mediter­
ranean diet he was used to eating 
at home. “Those processed foods 
that everyone eats now is not 
what we ate. Simplicity… simple 
flavors are the best for you and 
taste the best. Now, it’s a mania.” 
“In America, you have to think 
big,” said Aleko Zeneli. That’s 
posed a challenge to their stan­
dard of serving the finest, original 
Neapolitan pie. “Everyone here is 
used to so many options, so much 
advertising, that people lose the 
taste for simplicity.” The Zeneli 
brothers insist that their custom­
ers try their pizza as it appears 
on the menu, without extra 
toppings, to taste the authentic 
Neapolitan flavor. “If they really 
want to sprinkle parmesan or red 
pepper flakes, like they do here in 
the U.S., at least make them try 
the pizza as it is to see if they like 
the flavor of our pies,” said Aleko. 


With all the change Italian cuisine 
has faced in the U.S. in the past 
century, Zeneli is all about pre­
serving the old-fashioned, Nea­
politan pizza tradition, just the 
way Queen Margherita tried it 
in 1889. “If you haven’t tried this 
pizza, you haven’t tried pizza,” 
Gazmir chuckled, as he pointed 
behind me toward an elderly man 
sipping red wine with a friend. 
“Just ask him,” Gazmir told me. 
“He comes in every morning.”


The man’s name was Bill 
Iovanne, 88-years old and the 
long-time owner of Iovanne 
Funeral Home on Wooster Place. 
Even though the business is now 
run by his son, Bill has chosen 
to remain in Wooster Square. 
Sipping his wine, he radiated 
with nostalgia as he told me how 
much he loved growing up in the 
neighborhood. “Wooster Street 
to me is unbelievable,” he said. 
Bill was born in 1933 in Fair 
Haven, but soon after, his fam­
ily moved to Wooster Square. 
“I thought everyone was Italian 
here. The shops, the churches, 
the schools, all of them.” 
“People moved out gradually, 
to East Haven, North Haven, 
Branford, all over. But this street, 
Wooster Street, has stayed the 
same.” No matter how far away 
the descendants of  New Hav­
en’s Italian immigrants may have 
moved, Wooster Street still serves 
as the meeting point for families 
and friends to gather and eat clas­
sic New Haven food. “I’ll never 
leave here,” Bill reassured me. “I 
just love it.”

— Frank Lukens is a sophomore
 in Ezra Stiles College.



**Title: ACTS OF SERVICE**
**Author: Lillian Yuan**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
First thing in the morning, I 
braced myself for another rejection. But by some miracle, today 
was different than the last ten 
days; today, an operator finally 
picked up. After a week and 
a half of making groggy 8:00 
a.m. phone calls, staring at “no 
appointments available” messages, 
and listening to the locust drone 
of busy signals across various vaccine hotlines, I was starting to 
think I’d never find an appointment for Sam, a jovial older man 
from Guilford. Sam was my first 
client for the Vaccine Buddies 
volunteer program, a joint initiative between the Connecticut 
Agency on Aging and Interfaith 
Volunteer Care Givers (IVCG) to 
help seniors secure COVID-19 
vaccines. 

Vaccines 
became 
generally 
available to New Haven residents 
75 and older on January 18, 2021. 
Just four days later, I received a 
Vaccine Buddies invitation email 
from Jane Ferrall, the executive 
director of IVCG. At the end of 
the email, she urged: “Right now 
is a historic time for us to rally 
round and help our seniors when 
and where they need it most…
and if not now, when?” I wouldn’t 
meet Jane until months later, but 
her passion for service resonated 
through her writing.  

By the end of March, Vaccine 
Buddies and other IVCG volunteers had made over 150 appointments for seniors aged 65+ and 
provided medical transportation 
to over 750 clients, highlighting 
not only the power of volunteerism but also that of faith-based organizations to provide 
vital social services in times of 
need. Though it is no longer an 
explicit faith-based organization, 
IVCG has its roots in religious 
practice that still informs many 
of its volunteers and staff, including Jane herself. The “Interfaith” 
in IVCG’s moniker pays homage 
to IVCG’s parent organization, 
Interfaith 
Cooperative 
Ministries (ICM), through which many 
present-day social service organizations in New Haven received 
their initial seed funding and 
institutional 
backing. 
Columbus House, Downtown Evening 
Soup Kitchen, and the Greater 
New Haven Community Loan 
Fund, which has funded development for over 2,500 housing units 
in New Haven, are just a few of 
such organizations.

Despite its far reach, I had 
never heard of ICM until Jane 
mentioned it to me. First established in 1970 as “Downtown 
Cooperative Ministries” by a couple of mainline churches, ICM 
formally closed its doors in 2015. 
Since then, Jane lamented, very 
few people seem to be interested 
in learning about its “fascinating” 
history. 

“In the late seventies and eighties, people were very concerned 
about what was 
happening 
to 
New Haven,” Jane 
told me. A former 
lawyer, she spoke 
with 
deliberate 
pauses, giving her 
words an air of 
gravitas. 
“There 
was already this 
huge 
problem 
homelessness. There was 
a terrible divide 
between 
Black 
and white. There 
was 
this 
economic divide. 
The 
problems 
that New Haven 
has today are the 
they 
were 
having 
back in the nineteeneighties.” 

Churches, 
especially 
those 
on 
the New Haven 
Green, were experiencing 
these 
issues 
first-hand, 
and the original 
members of ICM 
felt called to do 
something about 
it. Some church 
members felt that it was not only 
their civic responsibility but also 
their religious calling to help the 
city, so they decided to create an 
interfaith ministry that, at least in 
the early years, was entirely self-
funded and operated. 

Like many other social service 
organizations, ICM was born 
out of a specific time with specific needs. “The nineteen-sixties 
were, as some will remember, 
a traumatic period for making 
everyone, including churches, 
face up to the highly sharpened 
liberation 
which 
beginning to emerge in terms 
of housing in neighborhoods, 
job discrimination, et cetera,” 
the late Reverend Dr. Samuel N. 
Slie, a previous ICM coordinator 
and prominent New Haven faith 
leader, said in a 1999 interview 
about ICM’s history. While the 
post-war rise in poverty was not 
unique to New Haven, few other 
cities had such an overwhelming 
response by the church.

Downtown Cooperative Ministries changed its name to Interfaith 
Cooperative Ministries in 
1995 to welcome organizations of 
other non-Christian faiths. ICM’s 
early 
initiatives 
included committees to address poverty, politics, and 
racism. Throughout 
the late twentieth 
century, 
ICM also funded 
over twenty other 
organizations that 
served the community financially. 
A look at their 
annual 
reports 
demonstrates their 
remarkable sensitivity to and flexibility for responding 
various 
needs. In 2008, for 
example, ICM and 
affiliate organizations 
responded 
rapidly to the economic crisis, raising $150,000 to 
keep an overflow 
shelter open until 
May 2009 despite 
the city’s budget 
cuts. 

“The 
DCM 
established a pattern,” Slie said in his 1999 interview, “which persists today, of 
sticking its neck out where there is 
a need, [and] asking the churches 
to help fund an outreach…[to] be 
able to develop a board, incorporate, acquire a staff, and find federal, foundation or private funds 
to help meet the needs.” 

ICM declined in financial and 
political influence in the twententens until its formal dissolution in 2015. Some attribute its 
decline to obsolescence, as its 
affiliate 
organizations 
self-sufficient, while others point 
to deeper organizational and 
ideological issues. Since 2015, 
no new interfaith organizations 
have come to the fore. According 
to IVCG Director Jane Ferrall, 
New Haven may be unlikely to 
see another major interfaith force 
in the future because of increasing secularization, fewer permanent residents with deep roots in 
the city, and the current trend 
towards churches “going their 
own way,” particularly in nondenominational institutions. Furthermore, the mainline churches 
that have been the strongest supporters of ICM are now struggling to care for their own. “I 
know this because I’m a part of 
one of these churches,” Ferrall 
said with resignation.

Still, Ferrall argues that what 
current faith-based organizations 
are doing is no less impactful. 
“Faith communities, if you would 
look at the cumulative impact…
it’s profound,” she said. “There 
is no way that the government 
could meet the need. There’s no 
way they could be nimble enough, 
[or] non-bureaucratic enough to 
meet the need.” The evidence is 
close to home in ICM’s history 
and even today through programs 
like Vaccine Buddies. IVCG’s 
small size and autonomy, as well 
as their perceived faith affiliation 
that may appeal to potential volunteers, allowed them to mobilize 
a volunteer force as early as January. A similar vaccine program 
organized by the New Haven 
Board of Alders (led by Alder Eli 
Sabin), on the other hand, did not 
launch until March 13. Where 
government programs struggle, 
faith-based services help fill in 
crucial gaps. 

Today, many faith-based communities work not only to provide social services but to do so 
in a way that is sensitive to the 
needs of different groups. In New 
Haven, where racial segregation 
and opportunity disparities run 
deep, this often includes activism 
that goes beyond providing specific charitable services, which 
certain church leaders have found 
profoundly lacking. The Revd. 
Doctor Samuel T. Ross-Lee, the 
lead pastor at the Black church 
Immanuel Missionary Baptist, has 
not seen much faith-based activism in his twenty years in New 
Haven. Ross said that while there 
is much “blanket support” from 
other faith communities, there has 
been a frustrating lack of political 
activism. 

In both their failures and successes, faith-based social organizations are ultimately more similar to their secular counterparts 
than they are different. In New 
Haven in particular, the lines 
between the two have become 
increasingly blurred, with some 
formally religious institutions like 
IVCG becoming secular in legal 
status, though not in ideology 
or leadership, and some secular 
institutions shifting to faith-based 
frameworks because of their leading members’ faith. Still, there is 
something to be said about the 
differentiating factor of faith itself. 
Faith may provide a motivation 
for social work, where there otherwise may not be one internally, 
or give community members a 
hope that nurtures perseverance 
even when things aren’t going 
well. It is this hope that inspires 
many faith-based service organizations and community advocates 
to serve the city with joy. And it’s 
the same hope that concluded the 
1974 ICM Annual Report, laid 
out on its own page in a prayer: 
“If we are divided into separate 
camps,
Make us see at last
The folly of our division and be 
sorry for it,
So that we may no longer be 
content
to continue in this situation,
But think and act
In the light of your future, your 
promise
To make everything new,
No matter how.”
— Lillian Yuan is a senior in 
Pierson College.



**Title: Parting**
**Author: Avik Sarkar**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
It is monsoon when they part, 
when the water lilies sprout like tiles,
painting mosaics of rose and jade beneath 
my grandmother’s feet. She sings prayers, words 
erupting like gasps under her breath. 
Stretching her veil up and over, scouring the market,
venerating the rain—sheets of glass, particles 
reflecting the sweet limes heaped 
on each other in pyramids—she recalls
the emerald beads her sister gave her 
before her parting, searches her neck for their indent.
She bows to choose a lime as a child
wrenches a lily from the water. Droplets explode, 
drench my grandmother’s veil, clasped 
to her face, and she drowns in a cry—remembering
it was monsoon when her sister parted, 
wrested from fragile arms—and then a wail.
Up at her the child stares, turns to leave, face streaked
with glassy rain—my grandmother recalls
her sister’s voice, in fragments, remnants
of mosaics—and under her breath she whispers 
Come back, come back. But
the lilies float on, apart. 
— Avik Sarkar is a sophomore in Davenport College.
Collage by Annli Nakayama
      Source: Library 
         of Congress 


**Title: SCHOOL WAS THE LAST THING ON MY MIND**
**Author: KANYINSOLA ANIFOWOSHE**
**Page number(s): 20-21**

The pandemic forced caregiving roles onto many students. 
Supporting them can help us reimagine Yale.
“It was back to normal, but 
not for me.”
adaptations like these—almost. 
After returning home, Margaret 
spent the next twenty-two hours 
with her family in their can­
dle-lit living room waiting for 
the power to return. Her father’s 
tremors, most of the time local­
ized in his hands, were spreading 
that night, occasionally reaching 
his face. He was getting stressed. 
Which would lead to Margaret’s 
mother getting stressed. Which 
would lead to Margaret’s sister 
getting stressed. Which, in this 
deeply-felt 
interdependence, 
would lead to Margaret getting 
stressed. She tried to remain 
calm, but she knew that when the 
power returned there would be 
a frantic rush to catch up on her 
work, and on her father’s. She’d 
be helping him send emails, type, 
and sort papers, like she’d been 
doing for the past eight  months 
as his Parkinson’s Disease pro­
gressed and made fine motor 
skills difficult. 
Margaret’s parents are in their 
late 70s, and throughout high 
school she had balanced aca­
demic obligations with helping 
them apply for Social Security 
benefits and working part-time 
to cover medical bills. But when 
she returned home after the clos­
ing of Yale’s campus in March 
2020, she learned that her father 
had been diagnosed with Parkin­
son’s Disease and took on new 
responsibilities to support him. In 
the spring semester, the college’s 
switch to Pass/Fail grading helped 
her manage some of the burden 
of trying to get a handle on the 
initial diagnosis. But by the time 
Yale returned to A-F classes in 
the fall, her dad’s symptoms had 
progressed, making it difficult 
for him to type and sometimes 
to speak. As Margaret put it, “It 
was back to normal, but not for 
me.” She found herself helping 
her father with work, driving 
him to and from offices, prepar­
ing food, making sure he was tak­
ing his medications, scheduling 
doctor’s appointments, keeping a 
watchful eye on the progression 
of his symptoms, and working a 
restaurant job to support her fam­
ily’s income, all while keeping up 
with the demands of extracurric­
ulars and classes—demands like 
her history course’s weekly paper, 
which, by the time the power 
returned the day after the storm, 
was due in a few hours. She knew 
that she wouldn’t have enough 
time to help her dad and com­
plete the assignment. Her family 
depends on her father’s income 
for stability, so there wasn’t much 
of a choice to make.
In testimony to the Senate Spe­
cial Committee on Aging, care­
giving advocate and former First 
Lady Rossalyn Carter said, “There 
are only four kinds of people in 
the world: those who have been 
caregivers, those who are cur­
rently caregivers, those who will 
be caregivers, and those who 
need caregiving.” The corona­
virus pandemic has brought the 
marginalized work of caregiving, 
and our collective dependence 
on caregivers—in nursing homes, 
schools and hospitals, within 
families and communities—into 
greater public awareness. Yet 
students who serve as family 
caregivers continue to be under­
served by their academic institu­
tions, according to the Institute 
for Women’s Policy Research. 
“Yale is not the world.”
For 
a 
moment, 
Margaret’s* 
room shuddered in flickering, 
yellow light, then—darkness. The 
power in her small New England 
town went out with the crackle 
of 
an 
October 
thunderstorm. 
Without Internet access at home, 
she hopped into her sister’s small 
brown Volkswagen, drove twenty 
minutes down the road into the 
next town, and parked on the 
side of the road. She logged onto 
her French class as rain drummed 
against the roof of her car. In the 
past year, Margaret, a sophomore 
at Yale, had gotten used to making 
Embedded in relationships span­
ning geographical and gener­
ational 
communities, 
student 
caregivers defy many colleges’ 
aspirational models of campus as 
a bubble devoted solely to intel­
lectual pursuits among 18-22 year 
olds. These relationships remind 
students like Margaret of what 
one might forget while in the 
campus bubble: “Yale is not the 
world.” Responding to the chal­
lenges faced by student caregivers 
is not only crucial for supporting 
a growing segment of college 
students, but also for creating a 
higher education culture which 
recognizes all students as full peo­
ple with needs, responsibilities 
and relations that reach beyond 
the scope of a college campus. 
“Professors would say, ‘Peo­
ple who perform best are peo­
ple who go to office hours reg­
ularly,’” recalled Danielle, a Yale 
senior who worked 19 hours a 
week throughout her four years 
to support her family and pay 
her student income contribution 
(the amount that the university 
expects students on financial aid 
to contribute to their education). 
She remembered thinking with 
frustration, “Well, I just don’t 
have that time during the day. It’s 
not that I don’t care.” Struggling 
in her sophomore year General 
Chemistry course, she desperately 
needed to attend a review session 
for the midterm, but they were 
only offered at 3 p.m. each day 
of the week—precisely during 
her work hours at an off-cam­
pus childcare center. “No matter 
what, I just lose,” she said, sigh­
ing. “Professors don’t realize that 
a lot of students are unfortunately 
not just full time students—we 
don’t actually just sit there all day 
and get to study.”
As Margaret attended classes 
from home in the spring and fall 
of 2020, she felt like Yale expected 
being a student to be her sole pri­
ority. But in reality, she was a sis­
ter, daughter, caregiver, income 
contributor, and more. She woke 
up early to take timed midterms 
before her familial responsibilities 
started, and she stayed up late to 
do homework after everyone had 
gone to bed. “In hindsight,” she 
reflects, “I know I wasn’t doing 
my best work.” She watched 
lectures in 15-minute chunks in 
between preparing meals, and 
she avoided synchronous classes, 
knowing that, “at any moment, 
someone could knock on my 
door and ask for my help with 
something—and I would [help 
them].” It would be a mistake to 
presume that these responsibili­
ties end when student caregivers 
leave home.  Danielle spent the 
summer after freshman year in 
Paris, thousands of miles from her 
family in Indiana, but she con­
tinued sending money back to 
her family. She still felt tethered 
to her caregiving responsibili­
ties: “Half of my brain was Yale 
things, and then the other half 
was ‘My parents can’t afford the 
electric bill this month, and I’m in


DESIGN BY ALLY SOONG
All names marked with an asterisk are 
pseudonyms.



**Title: The Weight of Caregiving at Yale**
**Author: Kanyinsola Anifowoshe**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
“Paris.’ I felt so guilty being in this 
place of so much opulence. My 
brain was exploding.” 

All three of the student care­
givers I interviewed spoke of the 
dissonance between the concerns 
Yale expected them to have and 
those that dominated their day-
to-day thoughts. Naomi, who 
used income from her off-campus 
job to pay her family’s bills when 
the pandemic began, while also 
helping her younger brother with 
technology needs for his online 
classes, expressed frankly, “School 
was the last thing on [her] mind.” 
Caregiving responsibilities took 
priority over grades, internships, 
and what Margaret described 
as the general pressure to “con­
stantly over-achieve” that feels 
inescapable on Yale’s campus. As 
I heard these remarks, I recalled 
how frequently peers across Yale 
have voiced frustrations with the 
college’s high-pressure culture— 
and how rarely they are able to 
extricate themselves from it. For 
Margaret, the past months of 
caring for her father have been 
the primary exception to the 
“competitive extracurricular and 
leadership culture” that she was 
immersed in during high school 
and her freshman year at Yale. 
While caregiving involved some­
times overwhelming stressors, it 
also offered students a sense of 
identity beyond productivity or 
“success” as a Yale student. Stu­
dent caregivers found new pri­
orities: staying grounded, being 
intentional about their behavior 
towards friends and family, and 
improving themselves “beyond 
Yale’s strict definitions,” in Mar­
garet’s words. Care deepened 
the quality of their lives in many 
ways. Rather than viewing care­
giving as an obstacle to their suc­
cess, they sought to affirm their 
roles as caregivers, while lessen­
ing the burdens they carried as 
students.


Huddling with her family in 
their living room as the power 
flickered 
back 
on, 
Margaret 
jumped up to plug in her laptop 
and email her residential college 
dean to ask for help in receiving 
an extension. “I sent her a news­
paper article about the power 
outage,” Margaret said.  Though 
the dean had not requested proof, 
she felt like she “had to do that.” 
With the email sent, she and her 
sister gathered at her father’s 
desk, a small wooden table with 
barely enough room for their 
bulking computer, a mouse, and 
two hard-backed chairs. The two 
daughters spent the remainder of 
the evening helping their dad talk 
through and type up the contents 
of emails and documents.


Margaret credits her relation­
ship with her dean, who eventu­
ally helped her get an extension 
on that paper, as being a major 
source of academic support over 
the past few semesters. Leading 
research on student caregivers’ 
experiences echoes this, finding 
that strong advising relationships 
are crucial to these students’ suc­
cess. According to a 2017 paper by 
University of Iowa researcher Lisa 
Schumacher, caregivers at earlier 
stages in their academic careers, 
or who lack the social resources 
to establish advising relationships, 
are left at an even greater risk of 
falling behind. Though the advis­
ing relationships were valuable to 
Margaret, they still felt limited to 
her capacity to perform for Yale: 
“It was more so, ‘How can we 
make time for you to complete 
these assignments?’ than, ‘How 
can we make this less stressful and 
ease this burden for you?’” After 
receiving the extension, concerns 
about her father’s condition still 
made it difficult for Margaret to 
concentrate on the paper. She 
was able to find resources to nav­
igate the logistical challenges, but 
not the emotional dimensions of 
caregiving. 


Yale’s 
sole 
institutional 
resource directed at student care­
givers is Dwight Hall’s Family 
Support Fellowship, which offers 
stipends and opportunities for 
community building to students 
supporting their families through 
the COVID-19 pandemic. When 
I spoke with Mark Fopeano, the 
fellowship’s administrator, about 
the origin of the program, he 
confessed that a conversation with 
a student last spring revealed to 
him the limitations of his knowl­
edge about students’ experiences, 
and left him “[feeling] silly that 
I had made this assumption that 
just because a student was 20, that 
they didn’t know what it was like 
to have to work with young chil­
dren around.” That conversation 
and further dialogue with stu­
dents and administrators shaped 
the fellowship, which launched 
in the fall and provides 34 stu­
dents 
with 
stipends 
between 
$318.75 and $1,275 per semester. 
The application process is short—
students enter their names and 
addresses then select one of the 
following types of family support 
they provide: 
1.	 Supporting the academics and 
social emotional development 
of school-aged family mem­
bers
2.	 Providing basic needs support 
to at-risk family members,
3.	 Extending care for family 
members recovering from 
COVID-19, or
4.	 Other
 Fopeano stressed how import­
ant it was that students can access 
the fellowship’s resources without 
having to divulge sensitive infor­
mation about their experiences—
both lessening the burden on 
already overwhelmed students, 
and limiting administrators’ role 
in deciding which student care­
givers are “most deserving” of 
support. In its most recent round, 
all of the applicants received the 
fellowship, though the future of 
the program remains unclear as 
Yale plans for a return to a fully 
in-person campus in the fall.


The fellowship is a first step in 
acknowledging the variety and 
complexity of students’ expe­
riences and responsibilities. A 
further step would be to fulfill 
the demands of Students Unite 
Now (SUN)—echoed by all three 
interviewees—to eliminate the 
student 
income 
contribution, 
which intensifies the burden of 
students who financially contrib­
ute to their families’ needs. SUN 
is also fighting to diversify and 
strengthen Yale’s Mental Health 
and Counseling Resources, which 
could help connect students with 
socioemotional support as they 
navigate caregiving responsibili­
ties. Danielle also suggested that 
Yale professors increase flexibil­
ity in scheduling office hours and 
offer recordings of lectures to 
accommodate students who work 
long hours. Professors and admin­
istrators could implement these 
policies without demanding that 
students divulge sensitive infor­
mation regarding their personal 
circumstances. These improve­
ments would help remedy Yale’s 
unrealistic demand that, as Dan­
ielle says, “students keep going 
no matter what. There’s no space 
to grieve, mourn, or be human; 
you’re expected to first and fore­
most be a Yale student, when 
first and foremost we are peo­
ple.” Institution-wide reforms to 
financial aid, mental healthcare, 
and teaching policy could move 
to honor the wide range of iden­
tities and responsibilities among 
student caregivers, and in doing 
so, transform our campus into a 
place where all students are sup­
ported as their full selves.


At the end of our conversa­
tion, I asked Margaret about her 
favorite memories of the time 
spent with her family over the 
past year. She laughed and rem­
inisced about watching Antiques 
Roadshow with her parents. As 
the night darkened after a long 
workday, they would gather in 
the family room and climb onto 
the couch. “We’d watch on the 
TV, which is so old; it belonged 
to my grandparents actually, so it 
just turns off at random times.” 
Nestled among her family as they 
laughed and shared reactions to 
the show, Margaret felt herself 
relax: “It was just good to talk 
with them about things in my life 
and in the world beyond the con­
text of Yale.” 

— Kanyinsola Anifowoshe is a 
sophomore in Ezra Stiles College.



**Title: BY THE BOOK**
**Author: Jack Tripp**
**Page number(s): 24**

What The Ethical Investor, 
Yale’s investing Bible, 
means for divestment.
By Jack Tripp
Collage and design by 
             Annli Nakayama
	
          Images Source: Library 
	
	
   of Congress



**Title: The Ethical Investor**
**Author:  No author explicitly stated, but the article discusses the book written by John Simon, Charles Powers, and Jon Gunnemann.**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
T
he first and only Har­
vard-Yale game I attended 
was 
among 
the 
most 
eventful ever played. In 2019, 
not only did Yale overcome Har­
vard’s double-digit lead to win by 
a touchdown in double overtime, 
but halftime was prolonged by 
hundreds of activists from both 
schools, who stormed the field in 
support of divestment from fos­
sil fuels. It was a dramatic intro­
duction to the debates, sit-ins, 
demands, and complexities that 
characterize the push-and-pull 
over how Yale makes money 
through investment—invest­
ments which were valued at 
$31.2 billion as of July 2020, 
according to Yale’s Invest­
ments Office. 

In early December, I attended 
an open meeting with Yale’s 
Advisory Committee on Inves­
tor Responsibility, where various 
student leaders spoke in support 
of divestment from fossil fuel 
companies. It wasn’t a conversa­
tion in any recognizable sense, 
and the underlying assumptions 
of the two sides (student-activists 
and committee members) were so 
different it could barely be called 
a debate—more like successive 
presentations. 

The 
students—
undergraduate organizers, mem­
bers of the Yale College Council, 
and graduate students—presented 
an argument focused on 
the urgency of the climate 
crisis and our moral obli­
gation to preserve ourselves 
and our planet. Members 
of the committee referred 
repeatedly to the limita­
tions on divestment outlined 
in The Ethical Investor, the 
almost 50-year-old text which 
defines how and when Yale 
should exercise its power as an 
investor to foment social change.

Later that week, I ordered a 
hard copy of The Ethical Inves­
tor from a small used bookstore 
in Connecticut. It arrived three 
weeks late, delayed in a shipping 
facility somewhere between New 
Jersey and Springfield, MA. With 
a view over the woods outside my 
bedroom window, I sat down to 
read it. It wasn’t easy. 

Written by John Simon, Charles 
Powers, and Jon Gunnemann, The 
Ethical Investor is relatively short, 
only 178 pages, but only the final 
seven of those pages actually lay 
out any policy recommenda­
tions for how a university should 
invest with social obligations in 
mind. The other 171 explore a 
wide-ranging defense of those 
recommendations, discussing the 
responsibilities of corporations 
and shareholders, the questions 
at stake for the university as an 
investor, and the legal justifi­
cation for a socially responsible 
investment policy.

The book was written in 1972 
to explore and define the univer­
sity’s role as a socially conscious 
investor. At the time, students 
on college campuses across the 
country were concerned with the 
complicity of higher education 
in the war in Vietnam and the 
Apartheid regime in South Africa. 
For administrators, on the other 
hand, Senator Joe McCarthy’s 
demagogic anti-communist cam­
paign was still in recent mem­
ory, and leaders feared wading 
into what they viewed as polit­
ical battles. I spoke over Zoom 
with one of the three co-au­
thors of The Ethical Investor, Jon 
Gunnemann DIV ’75, who had 
helped to write the text while at 
the Divinity School. Today, he’s 
a smiling, white-haired professor 
emeritus of social ethics at Emory. 

Gunnemann and his Divinity 
School classmate, Charles Powers, 
first became interested in ethical 
investing through their South 
Africa Studies Group, a collection 
of 
socially-conscious 
students 
who wanted to leverage Yale’s 
influence to contribute to the 
end of Apartheid. Although they 
doubted their individual ability 
to make a significant difference, 
they saw Yale—and the Corpo­
ration (Yale’s governing Board of 
Trustees)—as an institution capa­
ble of forcing change. 

Powers and Gunnemann wrote 
an article for the journal The 
Christian Century on pressuring 
the South African regime through 
socially 
responsible 
investing, 
hoping to catch the eye of J. 
Irwin Miller, a devout progres­
sive Christian and member of the 
Corporation. They were success­
ful—with some help from Yale’s 
Chaplain, 
who 
recommended 
the article to Miller. Powers and 
Gunnemann organized a meet­
ing 
with 
Kingman 
Brewster 
Jr., Yale’s president at the time; 
Miller; and the rest of the Cor­
poration at the Century Associa­
tion, which was then an all-male 
social club in New York City. 

John Simon LAW ’53, who had 
advocated for socially responsible 
investing in the nonprofit world, 
also joined the meeting, provid­
ing the legal expertise to back up 
the ideas Powers and Gunnemann 
had already been tackling. At 
that Century Association meet­
ing, Miller sat silent until Brew­
ster asked for his opinion. As 
Gunnemann recalls, Miller said, 
“I can’t see anything wrong with 
accountability.” And the ques­
tion became not “if” but “how” 
Yale would institute a policy for 
socially responsible investing.

The answer was a year-long 
seminar in the 1969-70 term at 


--- Page 26 ---

the Law School, funded by a 
grant from the Ford Foundation. 
Students from the Law School, 
Divinity School, School of For­
estry, and College formed teams 
to explore the legal, economic, 
and ethical ramifications of vari­
ous possible policies. They exam­
ined wide-ranging case studies 
and drew on expert knowledge, 
seeking a set of policies that could 
address not only the issue of 
Apartheid but social harm in any 
form. The product of these hours 
of research, conversation, and 
debate was The Ethical Investor, 
written for Yale by members of 
the Yale community and adopted 
as University policy by vote of 
the Corporation in April of 1972. 
It was a powerful statement that 
Yale would not claim blindness or 
profess neutrality when its invest­
ments were perpetuating social 
harm.

The Ethical Investor differenti­
ates between negative injunctions 
(i.e., the avoidance of harm) and 
affirmative duties (the promo­
tion of good), stating “that all 
citizens, individual and institu­
tional, are equally subject to the 
negative injunction against social 
injury”—a principle they term as 
the “moral minimum.” The text 
expects that Yale’s Investments 
Office will generally seek maxi­
mum economic return in select­
ing where they invest the Uni­
versity’s resources. “Nonprofit 
factors” are those considerations, 
like moral culpability, which are 
not primarily concerned with 
profit-seeking. They come into 
play when a company is found 
to be committing “social injury,” 
such as the perpetuation of Apart­
heid or the pollution of air and 
water. In such cases, the text rec­
ommends that Yale pursue share­
holder actions—measures aimed 
at changing a company’s practices 
while still holding shares in it. 

The text instructs that divest­
ment should be the last resort, a 
step only taken if, (1) the exercise 
of shareholder rights are unlikely 
to effectively change the com­
pany’s behavior, (2) elimination 
of the socially injurious behav­
ior would make investment in 
the company unprofitable, or 
(3) the university expects to sell 
its shares before any shareholder 
action initiated by the univer­
sity could be finished. Activists 
at Yale have recently argued that 
the past practices of fossil fuel 
companies demonstrate that they 
are resolved in their resistance to 
change. According to the guide­
guides the full Board in direct­
ing the policies of the Invest­
ments Office. In mid-April, the 
CFFIP produced guidelines rec­
ommending that Yale divest from 
individual fossil fuel producers 
that most contribute to climate 
change and seem least likely to 
change their practices. The ACIR 
is now tasked with interpreting 
these policies, investigating the 
practices of individual fossil fuel 
companies, and making recom­
mendations for divestment to the 
Investments Office on a case-by-
case basis. The Investments Office 
currently estimates that Yale has 
$800 million invested in fossil 
fuels.

In his capacity as chair of both 
the ACIR and the CFFIP, Jona­
than Macey LAW ’82, Professor 
of Corporate Law, Corporate 
Finance, and Securities Law at 
Yale Law School, explained to 
me the importance of standards 
like The Ethical Investor in guid­
ing Yale’s investment policy. Yale 
is a fiduciary—meaning its trust­
ees are obligated to maximize 
returns. Because the University 
generally has a responsibility to 
maximize the profits of its invest­
ment, guidelines like The Ethical 
Investor and the CFFIP’s report 
are necessary for when the Uni­
versity takes non-profit factors 
into account. 

The authors of The Ethical 
Investor anticipate and preempt 
numerous legal objections to 
their investment policy. One such 
defense is the “Education-Climate 
Rationale,” a rebuttal which seems 
especially well-suited to the pres­
ent moment. The authors indi­
cate that there may be instances in 
which friction between students 
and university leadership grows 
so incurable that the function­
ing of the academic community 
lines of The Ethical Investor, this 
would make divestment justified.

The text also recommends 
that a “University Investments 
Council”—now 
Advisory 
Committee on Investor Respon­
sibility (ACIR)—be established 
to recommend policies to the 
trustees in response to requests 
from members of the Yale com­
munity. In the fall of 2020, Presi­
dent Peter Salovey established the 
parallel Committee on Fossil Fuel 
Investment Principles (CFFIP) to 
inform Yale’s fossil fuel invest­
ment policy specifically. Both 
the ACIR and the CFFIP advise 
the Corporation Committee on 
Investor Responsibility, which 


--- Page 27 ---

is disrupted—stemming from “a 
weakening of the fabric of trust 
and confidence among members 
of the university population.” In 
these cases, the university would 
be justified in a measured accep­
tance of student demands. They 
compare any potential loss of 
profits to a business’s provision of 
“stock options, pension benefits, 
and trips to Florida”—expendi­
tures that ease conflict and con­
tribute to the long-term wellbe­
ing of an environment in which 
the organization’s mandate is 
better fulfilled. 

Nevertheless, while the book 
values a university that demon­
strates its receptivity to students’ 
social concerns, in seeking rem­
edies to those concerns, The 
Ethical Investor aims to balance 
moral purity and effectiveness—
how can the university actually 
encourage change with its invest­
ments, while recognizing that 
sometimes it is necessary to cut 
ties with a company altogether? 

In the end, the book empha­
sizes change from the inside (to 
an excessive degree, some might 
argue), accomplished while fossil 
fuel stock is still held by the Yales 
of the world—institutions that are 
aware of their impact and actively 
seeking to change the behavior 
of the corporations with which 
they are associated. Meanwhile, 
it does expect that the university 
as a shareholder will hold com­
panies accountable in an over­
sight capacity, relying on share­
holder action when necessary. 

Many student activists today, 
however, argue that the “mor­
ally pure” choice (divestment) is 
also the most effective and nec­
essary one—that Yale’s influence 
is so great and the climate crisis 
so grave that a decision to divest 
sets a needed precedent for others 
to follow.

In that seminar in which the 
first draft of The Ethical Inves­
tor was penned, students found 
that divestment depressed the 
stock price of the company in 
question for twenty-four hours, 
after which it bounced back as 
other (assumedly less responsi­
ble) investors took advantage of 
the lower price. And so the pol­
icy they developed positioned 
divestment as a last resort—one 
which evoked “the war movies 
in which the beleaguered infan­
try-man, having exhausted his 
ammunition, finally hurls his rifle 
at the advancing hordes.” It was 
the final step when there was no 
hope for changing a company’s 
practices through engagement 
with it. When I spoke with him 
in early April—before the release 
of the updated divestment guide­
lines—Gunnemann said he had 
supported divestment from fos­
sil fuels for the past three years. 
And with the CFFIP report, it 
seems that Yale is adopting pol­
icies that align more closely with 
Gunnemann’s judgment and the 
consensus among numerous stu­
dent activists. 

As 
my 
conversation 
Gunnemann wrapped up, he 
emphasized one thing he learned 
when writing The Ethical Inves­
tor: “How you frame an issue 
becomes really decisive… and, 
of course, the other big question 
[is], who has the power to frame 
issues?” He was referring specif­
ically to fossil fuel companies, 
which he feels have exerted dis­
proportionate influence on dis­
cussions of the environment. My 
impression was that students con­
veyed a similar sentiment con­
cerning the fossil fuel debate at 
Yale—that the very way in which 
the conversation is framed limits 
their ability to engage.



**Fossil Fuel Divestment at Yale**
**Author: Jack Tripp**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
This semester, the main conver­
sations around fossil fuel divest­
ment took place in two listening 
sessions with the CFFIP attended 
by student leaders and activists. 
Elaine Louden MPH ’22, a mem­
ber of the Graduate and Profes­
sional Student Senate, told me, 
“In [The Ethical Investor] itself, I 
don’t see a lot of problems. I think 
it’s more about how people inter­
pret what is in the book.” Before 
the release of the CFFIP report, 
she expressed dissatisfaction with 
how student concerns had been 
received—as did Jordi Bertrán 
Ramírez ’24, a YCC Senator and 
Sustainable Policy Co-Chair who 
was also present at the listen­
ing sessions. Louden, who first 
engaged in the divestment debate 
at Yale in this session, found it to 
be a disappointing introduction. 
She felt that there was an absence 
of voices who could speak to the 
impact of climate change from a 
public health perspective. When I 
asked Macey about the students’ 
characterizations of the listen­
ing sessions, he admitted that 
the committee had not commu­
nicated as openly as they should 
have at the initial meeting. “They 
may not feel heard,” Macey said. 
“I feel horrible about that—but 
they changed my mind about a 
couple of issues.” He hoped that 
when students read the commit­
tee’s report, however, they would 
see their arguments reflected and 
addressed in the text.


Bertrán Ramírez said, “Upon 
reading the report, a lot of what 
was enclosed in that document 
were near-direct quotes of what 
students had said in our meet­
ing with the CFFIP, which was 
surprising, to say the least.” He 
referred specifically to the por­
tions which emphasized the pro­
ducer’s responsibility in limiting 
the availability of fossil fuels, 
when in the past the committee 
had often argued that it was the 
duty of consumers to limit their 
consumption and the job of the 
government to regulate. He con­
veyed the sense of empowerment 
that comes with seeing the real 
outcomes of student activism. He 
also expressed hope that students 
might have a say in the imple­
mentation of the CFFIP princi­
ples—especially when it comes to 
selecting the specific companies 
from which the University will 
divest. This is a possibility that 
depends largely on the receptivity 
of the administration. 


Even before the release of the 
CFFIP report and its adoption 
into Yale’s investment policy by 
the Corporation, activists at Yale 
had their next steps planned. Scott 
Gigante GRD ’23 organized the 
Yale Forward campaign to elect 
a Yale alum to the Corporation. 
The campaign’s candidate, Mag­
gie Thomas ENV ’15, suspended 
her run in accordance with 
White House ethics rules in order 
to become Chief of Staff of the 
Office of Domestic Foreign Pol­
icy earlier this year. Yale Forward 
is still pushing for a more diverse 
Corporation, 
however, 
which 
might utilize the University’s 
platform to encourage broader 
social change.


When I spoke with Gigante, he 
skipped the customary talking-
points 
of 
divestment 
almost 
entirely. “We need to think about 
not just divesting as a political act 
but investing as a political act,” he 
said. Such social impact investing 
would step beyond the socially 
responsible investing policy enu­
merated in The Ethical Investor, 
taking into consideration not just 
the prevention of harm but the 
promotion of good. He cited the 
Rockefeller Brothers Fund and 
the Gates Foundation, both of 
which have earmarked small per­
centages of their endowments for 
social impact investing. Macey, 
however, expressed doubts about 
social impact investing, wonder­
ing if a measure like that would 
limit the University’s ability to 
provide financial aid or hire new 
faculty. 


Gigante takes issue not only 
“We need to think about not just 
divesting as a political act
but investing as a political act.”


with the limited guidelines in 
The Ethical Investor but also with 
their execution: “In terms of the 
ACIR, I see not just an accessibil­
ity problem or a disincentive to 
participate, but actually a lack of 
accountability and a lack of man­
date.” The ACIR—the main vehi­
cle for student input—conducts 
private conversations and issues 
nonbinding 
recommendations 
which may or may not be made 
public. For this reason, in many 
instances, students may not see 
the results of their advocacy.


Macey made clear to me that 
he wants his committees to be 
transparent and communicative. 
Although it does not argue that 
investment decisions should be 
predicated on popular opinion, 
The Ethical Investor tasks the ACIR 
with making recommendations 
to the Corporation in response 
to “requests from members of the 
university community,” a man­
date which is founded on the 
ability of the committee to medi­
ate between students and trustees. 
Gigante and Bertrán Ramírez—
the two activists with whom I 
followed up after the release of 
the 
CFFIP 
report—expressed 
differing degrees of satisfaction. 
Bertrán Ramírez’s anticipation 
especially came across: “We are 
at the cusp of something.” Ear­
lier, he and Gigante had spoken 
of their engagement with The 
Ethical Investor as necessary to 
communicate with Yale’s pow­
ers-that-be. At the time, they did 
not feel heard by the Yale admin­
istration. Although those emo­
tions may have changed with the 
release of the report, which Ber­
trán Ramírez describes as a win 
brought about by nearly a decade 
of student activism, Gigante still 
worries that the efficacy of the 
CFFIP’s principles will be limited 
by the decision-making struc­
ture. He sees a pattern emerging 
of an institution slow to respond 
to valid demands for change, a 
“now-typical ten year timespan 
for the Corporation to respond 
to concerns of investor respon­
sibility, as has been the case in 
both Apartheid divestment and 
fossil fuel divestment.” It is an 
issue which both he and Bertrán 
Ramírez feel may be remedied by 
more direct student engagement 
with the Corporation and clearer 
conversations with the admin­
istration on questions regarding 
both divestment and investment. 


At the very beginning of my 
first conversation with Jonathan 
Macey he referred to The Ethi­
cal Investor as the Bible of Yale’s 
investment 
policy—not 
solely 
for its importance but also for its 
endless debatability. Gunnemann 
later analogized it to the Consti­
tution, emphasizing that it is not 
a text which one should interpret 
with an originalist mindset. He 
hopes that the document encour­
ages 
evolving 
conversations 
about the difficulties of investing 
responsibly. 


The Ethical Investor is no longer 
a young document—2022 will 
mark the fiftieth anniversary of its 
publication. As may occur with 
any statement of principles, over 
time a changing context has ren­
dered parts of its content insuffi­
cient. Activists will continue to 
pose important questions. Should 
students be named to the Cor­
poration? The ACIR disbanded 
in favor of more direct access to 
trustees? Does The Ethical Investor 
frame the conversation in a way 
that fosters engagement? Perhaps 
it is time for a repeat of that 1969-
70 seminar at the Law School, to 
respond to these proposals and 
many more. In whatever forum 
they take place, however, ongo­
ing conversations will have to 
recognize the validity of such 
questions, the limitations of the 
current system, and the necessity 
of self-critical examination. 
— Jack Tripp is a sophomore in 
Benjamin Franklin College.



**Safe as Houses**
**Author: Zachary Groz**
**Page number(s): 30**

SAFE
as
HOUSES
Between 
bidding wars 
and evictions, 
Connecticut’s housing 
market has never been 
more distorted.
BY ZACHARY GROZ
Image sources: CT Department of Housing, transformed 
from original. “many more condo-for-sale signs posted in 
lake oswego - DSC01710,” by sean dreilinger, licensed 
under CC BY-NC-SA 2.0, transformed from original. 
“House,” by Brandon Blahnik, licensed under CC BY 2.0.



**Title: Connecticut's Housing Boom: Rosy or Bleak?**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I
n Hartford this past Febru­
ary, at the headquarters of 
Aquiline Drones, Connecti­
cut Governor Ned Lamont spoke 
of the state’s buoyant economic 
mood. Businesses like Aquiline 
were starting to reverse the drift 
of the last decade, where compa­
nies threatened to leave the state 
whenever the legislature pro­
posed new taxes, and then did so 
anyway, regardless of whether the 
bills passed or died in committee. 
Then, like everyone everywhere, 
he talked about the real estate 
market. For years, Connecticut’s 
population had been flowing out, 
and now, finally, it was beginning 
to flow in. New Yorkers and Bos­
tonians were converting to the 
exurbs, spurred by COVID-19’s 
indefinite pause on cosmopoli­
tanism. More people, by choice or 
circumstance, were, in his words, 
“rediscovering the Connecticut 
lifestyle.” 


If in parts of Connecticut home 
prices were already astronomical, 
in recent months they’ve become 
solar: dialed in “hot,” “red-hot,” 
“white hot,” and “hot hot” in the 
breathless language of real estate. 
According 
to 
the 
Connecti­
cut Housing Finance Authority 
(CHFA), the median sales price of 
a home in Greenwich went from 
$935,000 to $1,371,250 in 2020. 
Westport values hit $1,267,500. 
New Canaan: $1,377,000. Prices 
in New Haven went up 18.9 
percent. Redding: 76.9 percent. 
Sharon: 141.6 percent. Sprague: 
930.8 percent. 


For twenty years, the CHFA 
has meticulously recorded each 
peak, valley, boom, and bust of 
the state’s home sales prices. The 
graph trends like a manic EKG: 
line sharply up, sharply down, 
flat, and repeat. The ride up has 
been good before, but the mar­
ket has never sustained this much 
bounce. Between February 2020 
and February 2021, the average 
home sale price in the state was up 
38.7 percent, by far a single-year 
record. An April article from the 
real estate site Rocket Homes asks 
the Hamletian question that these 
trends beg: “Rosy or Bleak?” How 
far can this kind of growth go 
before the market snaps? 


“These markets are driven 
by narratives,” Robert Shiller, 
Nobel Prize-winning economist, 
Sterling Professor of Econom­
ics at Yale, and the author, most 
recently, of Narrative Economics: 
How Stories Go Viral and Drive 
Major Economic Events, told me. 
One narrative says that the cur­
rent housing market—Connecti­
cut’s and the country’s, both up 
double-digit percentages in valu­
ation since last March—is impor­
tantly unlike the bubble that burst 
in 2008-9, that the panic over 
home prices and scarcity will 
eventually soothe itself: Urbanites 
simply realized Connecticut had 
a trove of houses, and they had 
the money to spend on them. The 
market’s bullishness has gotten 
many people in the state hooked 
on the hope of a renaissance. 


“The Great Recession…was really 
driven by the real estate market,” 
said Tammy Felestein, the pres­
ident-elect of the Connecticut 
Association of Realtors. But, she 
told me, “In this case, I think real 
estate is going to be a big part of 
what’s going to pull us out of the 
COVID devastation.” 


Housing supply in the state is 
caught in a net of interlocking 
market forces, tangled further by 
the bull market. Judging by Zil­
low’s monthly data on metro area 
housing inventories, the scram­
ble for Connecticut real estate 
really began in late September of 
last year. September was when 
the New Haven, Hartford, and 
Stamford metro areas went on 
a selling tear and, over the next 
six months, lost over 37 percent 
of their inventories. The shortage 
in supply juiced the base prices of 
whatever homes happened to be 
left on the market. 


To cope, buyers are market­
ing themselves to sellers like 
high school seniors before col­
lege admissions tribunals: writing 
personal letters to sellers to prove 
their worth, paying sums far 
above the asking price, and waiv­
ing inspections. At open houses, 
some prospective buyers don hos­
pital scrubs at the seller’s request, 
and the cars pile into the twenties 
and thirties. Seeing a dozen offers 
in a day on a single house—all 
cash, no questions—is common­
place now.    


Also commonplace is an appe­
tite for room, which has dramat­
ically changed the number and 
kind of building permits being 
issued by the state. In Septem­
ber, the state issued 649 residen­
tial building permits, according 
Connecticut’s 
Department 
of Economic and Community 
Development, and from there 
the number has steadily declined 
each month. In February, the last 
month of reported data, there 
were only 240. In 2020, just 
under 60 percent of those per­
mits had been issued for building 
multifamily units, the format that 
tends to be most affordable in the 
state. Between September 30 and 
February 28, that figure dipped 
below 43 percent. In January and 
February of this year, close to 70 
percent of permits issued were 
for single-family homes—the big 
ones endemic to the area. Buyers 
want to buy large and builders 
want to build large.


Big single-family homes are 
profitable 
for 
builders—more 
than enough to compensate for 
super-charged lumber and steel 
prices—and 
have 
never 
been 
more in demand. New econom­
ics also means sacrificing chic: 
Fewer homes have been built to 
the buyer’s specifications this past 
year than the norm, according 
to Jim Perras, CEO of the Home 
Builders & Remodelers Associa­
tion of Connecticut. People aren’t 
sculpting dream houses; they’re 
just buying. Even more at odds 
with prior expectation, Perras 
told me, has been the “increased 
interest in single-family built for 
rent, which has historically been 
a very small subset of the market.” 
Demand for buying and demand 
for rentals have almost always 
been inversely related: When one 
gets more intense, the other stag­
nates or shrinks. Not now. 


So there’s more high-end rental 
and single-family construction, 
less construction overall, more 
buying, lower inventory, higher 
prices, fewer sellers, more bids, 
less paperwork, more cash, fewer 
questions. Marcus Smith, Director 
of Research, Marketing and Out­
reach at the Connecticut Housing 
Finance Authority, a public-pri­
vate mortgage lender in the state 
prioritizing 
low-income 
bor­
rowers, said the organization has 
been closely monitoring “the use 
of cash to buy homes” that’s been 
squeezing out first-time buyers. 
Applying and being approved 
for a mortgage eats up months, 
and in that time, you’re liable to 
being scooped by someone who 
can pay up-front. Low-income 
buyers don’t stand a chance. The 
state’s now polarized, more than 
ever before, between a class that 
owns and a class that can’t even 
entertain the idea.   


That polarity happens to coin­
cide with a balanced budget in 
Hartford: The state is enjoy­
ing a 245 million dollar sur­
plus, sustained by new income 
tax revenue and federal aid. But 
the State Assembly’s legislative 
docket gives some indication 
of how unevenly that balance is 
being felt, especially at the local 
level where funding deficits are 
either desperate or nonexistent, 
nowhere in between. Five bills 
have been introduced since Jan­
uary to address the state’s byzan­
tine revenue collection and allo­
cation methods. One, SB 742, 
fully funds the state’s municipal 
revenue sharing account, which 
pools sales taxes and distributes 
them as grants to municipalities; 
in the last six years, the system has 
failed to deliver the hundreds of 
millions of dollars it pledged upon 
inception and let cities buckle 
under untenable debts. Another, 
SB 821, creates a child tax credit, 
removes the current fifteen mil­
lion dollar cap on estate taxes, 
and raises the property tax credit 
to four hundred dollars—poli­
cies meant to redistribute wealth 
without injecting liquidity into a 
market with persistent inflation 
fears. 


“BUYERS ARE 
MARKETING 
THEMSELVES 
TO SELLERS LIKE 
HIGH SCHOOL 
SENIORS BEFORE 
COLLEGE 
ADMISSIONS 
TRIBUNALS.”


Money is sitting in the state’s 
accounts. Now it’s a matter of 
moving and raising more steady 
streams of it. At the day-long 
public hearing on SB 821 back in 
mid-March, New Haven Mayor 
Justin Elicker took aim at one 
of the state’s more adamantine 
problems: “Our overemphasis on 
hyper-local property tax funding 
desperately needs reform, if we 
want to move our state forward 
and make it more equitable and 
a more just place.” Connecti­
cut is now the only state besides 
Rhode Island that has no formal 
county government, and, there­
fore, no way to tax real estate 
collectively across towns. Since 
the county system was abolished 
by the Democratic majority in 
1960—what Republicans predict­
ably called an attempt at “dictato­
rial rule”—only the wealthiest of 
the state’s 169 towns have been 
able to adequately provide basic 
services, like housing, educa­
tion, and infrastructure. The state 
ended up not with a tyranny of 
the legislature, but a dictatorship 
of the towns. Towns without a 
large property tax base, like New 
Haven, simply have not been able 
to raise the funds others have in 
spades. 


Now state Democrats are try­
ing to restore a collective mode of 
taxation, and Republicans are call­
ing that dictatorship, too. Debates 
on new taxes can range in tone 
from bedtime meditation to Civil 
War march, and lately both have 
been playing in the state. Two 
proposals in particular have had 
people waxing wroth: SB 171 and 
SB 172, drafted by the President 
Pro Tempore of the State Sen­
ate, New Haven’s Martin Looney 
(D-11), which would impose a 
state-wide property assessment 
and tax. The response from thou­
sands across the state was acrid, 
and broke party lines: peti­
tions sprung up in defense 
of “home rule,” against “big 
government dictating” and 
“usurping the power of ‘We 
the People.’” The debate 
is no longer strictly fac­
tional; it’s the old collision 
of court, country, and city, 
the sectional interests that 
divert attention from the 
source of social pain: greed. 


“In Connecticut, we have 169 
jealously self-protective munic­
ipal fiefdoms,” Looney told me, 
using the feudal analogy he often 
deploys when talking about the 
state. “There’s this strong tradi­
tion of local control here that’s 
politically toxic to disturb.” 


SB 
1024, 
“Desegrega­
teCT” bill, named after the activ­
ist group that’s been pushing for 
zoning reform in the state, dis­
turbed that same tradition. The 
bill 
proposes 
loosening 
local 
zoning restrictions to increase 
housing stock, naturally deflating 
the cost of buying and renting 
throughout the state, and allevi­
ating both its affordability crisis 
and its glaring racial inequities. 


“We’ve been focused on tran­
sit-oriented development. That’s 
a strategy that was just adopted 
in Massachusetts, nearly unani­
mously by the state legislature,” 
said Sara Bronin, the organiza­
tion’s founder. “Those reforms 
passed on a bipartisan basis. You 
look at the discourse here, and it’s 
just completely bizarre and totally 
puzzling.” 


DesegregateCT’s 
plans for transit-ori­
ented 
development, 
which, in the first iter­
ation of the bill, gave 
developers license to 
build multifamily housing within 
half a mile of a city’s main trans­
port hub without “minimum park­
ing requirements,” were stricken 
entirely in the revision that got 
out of committee, undercutting 
the bill’s intent. The “minimum 
parking requirements” that local 
zoning authorities now impose 
up and down the Gold Coast have 
made building affordable housing 
mathematically crazy: If develop­
ers are compelled by law to carve 
out three parking spots for every 
studio apartment they build, the 
apartment’s base price is bound to 
shoot up. The unspoken upshots 
of requirements like these are less 
diverse communities and more 
exclusive prosperity. 


Beyond parking, towns have 
a varied arsenal of caveats and 
conditions to pull from: deliber­
ate limitations on the extent of 
sewage systems, minimum acre­
ages for construction, excessive 
rounds of land-use applications 
and appeals. These have persisted 
even with legislative updates to 
decades-old affordable housing



**Title: The Connecticut Housing Crisis**
**Author: Zachary Groz**
**Page number(s): 34**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
mandates. “The only thing that’ll 
work,” said Anika Singh Lemar, 
a clinical professor at Yale Law 
School who specializes in afford­
able housing, “is a much firmer 
stance from the state that the 
kinds of misbehavior and lack 
of action that we see at the local 
level are unacceptable and are 
undermining not just the lives of 
low-income people but the state’s 
economy.”

Opponents of even a watered-
down version of the Desegrega­
teCT bill have called it an affront 
to a way of life. “The global 
trend for three thousand years is 
increased density,” said Green­
wich State Representative Harry 
Arora (R-151), who’s become 
the face of the opposition. “We 
all come together. We build cit­
ies. The good news is Connecti­
cut is not that. If you think about 
Connecticut, we are different 
from many other states in our 
country. We do not have two big 
cities which have all the people 
and everything. Our large cities 
are about 5 percent of our pop­
ulation. We have a really good 
model, which has evolved over 
centuries, and there is no need to 
do a drastic surgery.” 

The Connecticut model has 
always been good at concealing 
the quiet desperation below its 
surface with loud politics. Not 
only its towns, but the state’s 
whole economy is now segre­
gated: between those in a reces­
sion and those not. Rent, and the 
inability to pay it, is a good mea­
sure of a dire economy, since peo­
ple choose to pay rent before any­
thing else—food included—when 
a choice is exacted upon them. 
At least 19 percent of renters in 
the state (over 226,000 people) 
were behind on rent in March 
of this year compared to 15 per­
cent nationally, Daniel Threet, a 
research analyst at the National 
Low-Income Housing Coalition 
(NLIHC), told me. Since Sep­
tember, when the state loosened 
its moratorium, the number of 
eviction lawsuits has risen rap­
idly: from 198 in September 2020 
to 882 in March 2021, according 
to data from the Connecticut Fair 
Housing Center. “These evictions 
do so much more down-stream 
damage than just losing the hous­
ing,” said Darren Pruslow, a 
supervising attorney at Connecti­
cut Veteran Legal Services. They 
tear at a person’s ability to live. 

In response, on top of the 
porous moratorium, the state has 
implemented a rental assistance 
program called UniteCT: an 
exclusively online portal where 
tenants and landlords can apply 
for a piece of $235 million in fed­
eral aid. The program amounts 
to callousness on a grand scale: a 
quarter of low-income people in 
the state don’t own a computer, 
according to Dalio Education’s 
2020 year-end report. UniteCT’s 
remedy has been to send a bus 
full of computers on a 6-days-a-
week tour of the state. Of course, 
to get to the bus, you need know 
it exists, you need to look online 
to find out where it will be on a 
specific day, you need to travel 
to it, most likely to another town 
or a far off part of the state, have 
all your paperwork in hand, have 
your taxes filed, and have time off 
from work to spare. The program 
has gotten 2,200 applications, as 
of April 7—1 percent of people 
who are already behind on rent. 
All the funds from the program 
have to be committed by Septem­
ber 30 of this year and paid out 
by December 30. The leftovers go 
back to the Treasury. 

When I asked George Cooper, 
the prominent economist and 
best-selling author of The Origin 
of Financial Crises, what he made 
of this M.C. Escher-like econ­
omy and its seemingly endless 
imagination for new obsceni­
ties, he told me that our territory 
was uncharted and the endgame 
unknown: “The COVID lock­
down has been the most bizarre 
period economically in human 
history.” Bizarre, yes. And cruel.  
— Zachary Groz is a sophomore 
in Jonathan Edwards College and 
Co-Editor-in-Chief  of The New 
Journal.


**Title: Imagining Myself**
**Author: Beasie Goddu**
**Page number(s): 35**

IMAGINING MYSELF
Why I turned to fiction during the pandemic.
BY BEASIE GODDU
DESIGN AND COLLAGES BY ADA GRIFFIN
PERSONAL ESSAY
MAY 2021


**Title:  Untitled**
**Page number(s): 36**

I
t’s April 7, 2020, and I am 
sitting in a tree in a park in 
what feels like the eye of the 
pandemic. The air is chilly and 
I can smell yesterday’s linger­
ing rain, the only sign of spring 
beginning to creep out from 
hiding. New York City has just 
reached 
over 
three 
thousand 
deaths from COVID-19. Each 
day I have watched the num­
bers soar upwards on my phone 
and either resisted or succumbed 
to the impulse to call everyone 
I love and ensure that they are 
O.K. But now it is different and 
worse: today NYC COVID-19 
deaths have surpassed the number 
of people who died on September 
11, 2001—2,977. Anyone born 
before those attacks felt we had 
now descended to an unknown, 
unimaginably horrible circle of 
hell. 

My tree sits at the top of a hill 
in Morningside Park, by 114th 
Street. One of the highest in Man­
hattan, this hill is my sentry point: 
a height from which I can keep 
track of everything that passes 
below. In front of me the ground 
falls away into Harlem, East Har­
lem, the East River, and Queens. 
At my back is the Morningside 
branch of Mount Sinai Hospital. I 
know it is there, though I do not 
turn to look, because I grew up 
three blocks away. I also know 
because the wail of sirens drowns 
out the Rolling Stones’ “Emo­
tional Rescue” playing in my 
headphones. Many think of the 
early pandemic period as silent, 
the moment the world went 
quiet. New York did not go quiet. 
It was loud and shrill, filled with 
the ringing sirens that signalled 
another person so ill that they had 
reached their last resort. No one 
wanted to be in the infectious 
miasma of the hospital unless it 
was their only option. In this new 
aural landscape, I began to read, 
not to fill the silence, but to shut 
out the noise. 

Over the next two months I 
would read twenty-nine books 
on this hill—roughly three and 
a half books a week. My close 
friend worked every night as 
an EMT, saving lives; I stayed 
at home reading. Going out in 
the world might have endan­
gered others. Why I continued to 
read, even after the first burst, is 
more complicated. Books would 
give me the tools to reconstruct 
myself, clothed in the opportu­
nity of escape. 

What is fiction for? This ques­
tion has been either written about 
or ignored by generations of 
writers and readers, and it forms 
the basis of people’s confusion 
at why I am an English major. 
Fiction, many have argued, does 
not serve a greater purpose. But 
this assertion misses the point: 
whether it has a ‘purpose’ or not, 
it certainly has effects. 

I have many friends for whom 
reading fiction is escapism. It’s a 
way of evading the problems that 
exist in your world and entering 
another one where you don’t have 
to deal with the complications 
of being “you.” This, I think, is 
why kiosks in airports sell pot­
boilers and romance novels. If 
you’re escaping daily life with a 
vacation, you want your reading 
to help you. In New York City 
in April 2020, escapism seemed 
understandable. But is escapism 
always frivolous? 

I began with a desire to leave, 
go anywhere, since my life last 
spring was an unusually self-con­
tained narrative. It was a story of 
isolation that did not spill over 
into others but remained within 
the structure it could itself pro­
duce—and under the circum­
stances it produced a soliloquy. 
Through reading, I could break 
through that structure and engage 
with a multitude of narratives 
that interrogated and enriched 
my own. As I read, my soliloquy 
became a dialogue. Tayeb Salih 
and Zadie Smith, generations 
apart, exchanged diverse immi­
grant experiences. Sam Shep­
ard and James Baldwin sparred 
cross-country over the enduring 
power of past loves. By leaving 
my own world behind I tumbled 
into several others. 

Virginia Woolf writes of this 
fall into another world, this 
merging of the self and the other. 
In a letter to her friend Ethel 
Smyth, Woolf explains that the 
novel “splits us into two parts as 
we read.” Through reading, we 
experience “complete elimina­
tion of the ego” and also “per­
petual union” with the mind of 
another. Woolf’s language is a bit 
grandiose—I’m not sure if many 
readers can lay claim to a “com­
plete elimination” or “perpetual 
union.” Yet the attempt is worth 
a shot. Like Woolf, I have found 
that to read a book as deeply as 
I can, I must nearly abandon 
myself on the first page. I must 



**Title: Listening and Imagining**
**Author: Beasie Goddu**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
first yield myself completely to 
listening—to understanding and 
picturing the author’s imagined 
world. Only through listening 
can I come close to the central 
truth of the story and then sustain 
it myself. 

Once 
I 
stepped 
into 
the 
uncharted geographies of these 
texts, I became aware of what 
enabled me to keep travel­
ling through them: my ability 
to observe. For me, this kind of 
observation can only follow a 
surrender to imagination. This 
pairing of imagination and obser­
vation ran through my every day. 
I imagined entire worlds and 
noticed their contents as I moved 
through my own empty and 
familiar landscape. As I walked 
through a deserted New York, I 
lived in the worlds I read of and 
walked the paths I made through 
them. In Central Park, staring at 
the now perpetually empty Great 
Lawn, I gazed at J.M. Coetzee’s 
South African veldts. In the gar­
dens of the Cathedral of Saint 
John the Divine, I strolled with 
Virginia Woolf through the ver­
dant grounds of Oxford. Alone 
save for the cathedral guard 
who checked my temperature, I 
watched her firm stride, the germ 
of A Room of One’s Own newly 
fertile in her mind. 

As the writer Hernán Diaz 
recently said in a lecture at Yale, 
it is not fiction that is the oppo­
site of truth. Falsehood is. Fiction 
contains truth at its heart. And 
if imagination and observation 
are the tools we use to engage 
with novels, fiction and truth are 
their respective fruits. My life has 
been in large part composed of 
a plurality of these truths: truths 
that express themselves in fic­
tion, but are not false. At their 
best, these truths express what 
it is to grow up differently than 
I did: the truth of growing up a 
boy, of being a wizard, of fac­
ing racism. I cannot truly know 
these truths, but by setting them 
alongside one another, I aim to 
see from more than just my own 
perspective. Our lives are a “pro­
cess of continual fictionalization, 
as we internalize the other-we-
are-not, dramatize them, imagine 
them, speak for them and through 
them,” writes Zadie Smith. Like 
Smith, I traverse several different 
countries of the imagination. 

—
By April 10, New York lost 
about three thousand people every 
four days. While to my friends 
in other regions of the coun­
try, the pandemic still seemed 
remote, it moved much closer to 
me. Friends lost one grandpar­
ent, then both. My sister’s father 
got very sick. My friend’s father 
died. Every week I would walk to 
buy groceries for an 85-year-old 
relative, and on the way I’d pass 
the hospital behind my reading 
hill. A policewoman stopped me 
from crossing the street: bodies, 
one by one, were being carried in 
grey bags to a freezer truck across 
the street. After I delivered my 
groceries and sat ten feet away 
from my relative for a few hours, 
I went the long way around, back 
to my hill to read. 

Devoid of the people and 
places that had populated my life 
before, I was filled with absence. 
Exiled from Yale, unable to see 
friends and family, and almost 
done with the semester, I had 
no idea what I wanted. Reading 
about what other people usually 
do, I thought, would be a good 
place to start. And so I began: in 
Michael Cunningham’s West Vil­
lage, Jenny Erpenbeck’s Berlin, 
and James Baldwin’s Harlem. I 
began to reconstruct myself. 

When people’s lives drastically 
change—a move, a death, a career 
change, a breakup—they often deal 
with it through action: doing new 
things and meeting new people. 
Instead I read about new people 
doing new things, and delighted in 
the dialogue they engaged me in. 
When you read, especially during 
a national emergency, you have to 
imagine the world into which you 
step. You have to imagine other 
people’s lives to fill the space, and 
in the process, you begin to imag­
ine your own. Suddenly, you’re 
able to apply the same creative 
vision, the same perceptive alert­
ness, to what you might want and 
who you might want to be. 

What does this new life of 
mine look like? Unsurprisingly, it 
is filled with books. I want a life 
where I can think about books as 
much as I would like. To write, 
but also to read. I want, I realized, 
to be an editor—to take the com­
passion I’d learned through imag­
ining so many unfamiliar lives, 
and turn it towards new stories, 
fledgling stories, that I could help 
release into the world. In my own 
writing, I want to think through 
diverse theories and possibilities of 
fiction. And to do this, I have to 
keep reading. 

To read in this new way, I have 
to leave my world and step out 
into space, simply listening. I dis­
covered how to yield completely 
without losing myself, which is, I 
think, the same thing as falling in 
love. I had learned to fall in love 
with other people’s stories, with 
the pen still poised to write my 
own. 

— Beasie Goddu is a junior in 
Jonathan Edwards College and 
a Senior Editor of The New Journal.
MAY 2021
 37


**Title: On Giants’ Shoulders**
**Author: Abraham Keita**
**Page number(s): 38-39**

L
iberia is the land of my 
birth. Tiny, with a popu­
lation of about five million 
people, it was the first African 
nation to gain political indepen­
dence. In Africa, some prefer to 
call it “small America,” others 
“the America in Africa.” Why? 
Because Liberia was founded by 
Black people from America, many 
of whom were formerly enslaved. 
Indeed, there couldn’t be better 
monikers for a country whose 
first ten presidents were born on 
American soil. But to me, these 
labels are meaningless sounds, 
mere rhetoric meant to invoke 
good feelings in a people lan­
guishing in poverty’s depths. The 
difference between the two coun­
tries couldn’t be any wider. My 
country ranks in the pantheon of 
the world’s poorest nations, while 
America is the world’s biggest 
economy. Yet nowhere is the dif­
ference between both countries 
more apparent than in their con­
ception of individualism.   

Growing up in Liberia, every 
day was the same: clear and 
sunny, beaming with the fresh 
warmth of a hot summer day. In 
the scourging heat, I would play 
soccer with friends, while adults 
occupied the kitchens, preparing 
the day’s only meal. There were 
families that would go weeks 
on end without food. That was 
the group to which my family 
belonged. 

But when it was dusk—the sun 
sliding into solemn repose, the 
moon and stars beginning their 
nocturnal 
course—all 
families 
gathered. As the night unfolded, 
I would, like other kids, make 
my way to the open space where 
neighbors 
congregated. 
Some 
nights were chilly, with the thick 
and dry wind, larded with the 
smell of tropical orchids in bloom, 
beating against our fragile, often 
malnourished faces. When every­
one had settled in a spot, the 
adults would begin telling stories. 
Listening to stories was a daily 
chore. One story I frequently 
heard throughout my younger 
life was about “the land of the 
free.” That this phrase squirmed 
its way to my small slummy 
hometown, into the ears and onto 
the tongues of men, women and 
children whose lives had been 
arrested by poverty is still befud­
dling. I became familiar with the 
phrase before I knew the coun­
try’s name. When the adults told 
the story, some pronounced it 
“Ar-marica,” or others, “Air-mer­
ica.” But I didn’t care about the 
correct 
name 
or 
pronuncia­
tion. Nor was I interested in the 
authenticity of the story, for I 
knew that the adults who narrated 
it had never been on a plane, let 
alone traveled to America.  

As the adults would explain, 
America was a country of enor­
mous wealth. There were no 
haves and have-nots. It was the 
best in everything, including 
education, health, infrastructure. 
Sometimes, an adult would mut­
ter that if there was an asphalt road 
connecting Africa to America, he 
would walk to enter America. 
That, they said, was better than 
wallowing in abject poverty. And 
so, I came to believe that America 
DESIGN BY ANNLI NAKAYAMA 
Images source: Wikimedia Commons
PERSONAL ESSAY
 38
THE  NEW  JOURNAL

was the land of milk and honey.  

I was also told that America was 
the best place for the individual to 
rise out of mediocrity. Human 
flourishing, through individual 
self-actualization, was the modus 
operandi. One could do what­
ever, whenever and however she 
desired. Everything the individ­
ual wanted was readily available, 
so long as she could work at it. 
It seemed to me that Ameri­
can society aided and uplifted its 
people towards the realization of 
their goals. This bit of the story 
glued me to those nightly con­
versations. It was how I came to 
understand American individual­
ism, long before I could dream of 
coming to America.   

Individualism 
is 
America’s 
mantra, the crux of the Ameri­
can dream and American life. The 
country was founded on the cult 
of the individual, the belief that 
the country could only thrive 
when the individual is left to her­
self, and that she should engage 
in acts which maximize her hap­
piness and satisfaction. In this 
way, the individual attains a sense 
of self and asserts her true iden­
tity through the exercise of her 
freedom. Americans cling to that 
individualism as a kind of inheri­
tance that can’t be denied. 

Back home, the kind of indi­
vidualism I learned was steeped 
in moderation and boundless 
kindness. It taught that, as an 
individual, I have my own goals 
and make my own decisions, 
but only with the understanding 
that whatever I do either helps 
or harms some other individual. 
This is not a moralist perspec­
tive: I use “help” and “harm,” not 
“good” and “bad.” The true indi­
vidual is one who helps another 
individual, not by necessarily giv­
ing or doing something for them, 
but by refraining from that which 
would harm them. Even the “rug­
ged” individualist does not want 
to be harmed. And to the extent 
that I do not harm someone, I 
contribute to society by allowing 
for peaceful coexistence. Hence, 
this individualism considered the 
common good as a collection of 
individual goods.    

Since coming to America, 
my childhood view of Ameri­
can individualism has changed. 
Recently, I went with a friend 
to get groceries from a store not 
far from Yale’s campus. He took 
several items, as did I, but he 
was short two dollars. Bearing in 
thing for you and makes it clear 
that there are no strings attached, 
you don’t repay the person. And 
to return what one has given or 
rebuff what one has done out of 
goodwill is interpreted as a disre­
gard for friendship. 

It is this tendency to help others 
that distinguishes the individual­
ism I grew up with from Amer­
ican individualism. This is not to 
posit that American individual­
ism prevents compassion. Rather, 
it seems to discourage one from 
being at the receiving end of 
kindness. In this sense, American 
individualism turns the individual 
into a self-absorbing being, who 
brings his pride to every encoun­
ter. He finds it shameful to be 
assisted by another.

Relationships in America seem 
to embody a tension between one 
individual and another. In other 
words, individuals interact with 
one another with the presupposi­
tion that everyone comes to every 
encounter as equals, and there­
fore, no one must allow herself 
to be aided or ‘pitied’ by another 
person. Even when one asks for 
help she does so by offering some­
thing in return. The fear is that 
any acceptance of assistance—of 
whatever 
kind—means 
defeat; 
it amounts to an admittance of 
one’s weakness, one’s vulnerabil­
ity, one’s loss of self. 

But it is precisely this absorp­
tion into oneself that leads to 
selfishness. In Democracy in Amer­
ica, Alexis de Tocqueville warns 
Americans that “individualism 
at first dries up only the source 
of public virtues; but in the long 
term it attacks and destroys all the 
others and will finally be absorbed 
in selfishness.” If unchecked, indi­
vidualism instills in the individual 
an indifference to human suffer­
ing and vulnerability. He pays no 
mind that we are friends, I gave 
the two dollars to the cashier. 
Once we left the store, I told my 
friend that he shouldn’t bother to 
repay me. I grew up understand­
ing friendship this way: friends 
are supposed to assist each other, 
be there for one another, espe­
cially during times of uncertainty 
and when in dire need. Surpris­
ingly, after about a week, this 
friend transferred me two dollars 
through Venmo. How he guessed 
my Venmo username, I cannot 
tell. But I was taken aback, and 
realized that it was a cultural dif­
ference about individualism. Back 
home, when someone does some­
“I came to believe 
that America was 
the land of milk 
and honey.”
 39



**Title: The Character of American Individualism Today**
**Author: Abraham Keita**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
attention to anyone, he seeks no 
one’s help or opinions, and con­
siders everyone an opponent to 
his agenda. In a word, the indi­
vidual loses his sense of empathy. 
This is the character of American 
individualism today. It has gone 
amok. Kindness and compas­
sion have become bêtes noires in 
modern American society. The 
American individualist seems to 
disregard the interest of the com­
munity. We need not look to his­
tory books to know this is true. 
The evidence is right before our 
eyes. 

The COVID-19 pandemic has 
brought to the fore the danger of 
American individualism. While 
doctors and healthcare work­
ers risk their lives to save every­
one’s, the simple act of wearing 
a mask—an act of kindness to 
protect all of us—has been polit­
icized, dismissed, and construed 
as an infringement on individual 
rights. For all the stories I heard 
about America as a child growing 
up in another country, I never 
imagined that individuals would 
be so self-seeking that they would 
ignore the common good. They 
refuse to grasp that the common 
good is quintessentially the sum 
of individual goods and that the 
destruction of the common good 
is necessarily the destruction of 
each individual good.   

But staunch proponents of 
American individualism or “rug­
ged individualism” lament that 
this account doesn’t favor per­
sonal freedom, for what is the 
individual then, they say, if she 
cannot do as she pleases, but must 
conform to the collective interest? 
They pontificate that the individ­
ual ought to be allowed to pursue 
her own desires independent of 
any external influence if she is to 
be truly free. 

But the common interest does 
not exclude the individual inter­
est. In 2014, Liberia experienced 
one of the deadliest Ebola out­
breaks in recent memory. Many 
lives were lost. For a time, people 
claimed that the epidemic was a 
hoax and that health restrictions 
were 
counterproductive. 
Like 
some Americans of today, there 
were Liberians who refused to 
wash or sanitize their hands while 
in public spaces. Whole commu­
nities followed suit. But in those 
areas where individuals acted to 
protect themselves, thereby pro­
tecting others, the cases quickly 
dropped. Eventually, people fol­
lowed health guidelines thor­
oughly. In every shop, store 
and supermarket I entered, and 
in every household, it became 
mandatory to wash your hands 
and maintain social distancing. 
Community leaders, government 
officials and members of political 
parties went across the country 
raising public awareness about 
Ebola. Liberia eradicated Ebola 
because everyone started to live 
according to our conception of 
individualism: help everyone, do 
harm to no one. Because of the 
lessons of Ebola, Liberia’s total 
number of confirmed COVID-19 
cases is less than 2,200 in twelve 
months, 
compared 
to 
about 
eleven thousand Ebola cases in 
fifteen months. For a poor coun­
try with congested cities and 
towns, Liberia was not expected 
to maintain such low COVID-19 
infection rates. 

Although I am saddened by the 
nearly ninety people who have 
died in Liberia from COVID-19, 
I find solace in the fact that things 
are not as awful as they were in 
2014, because individual Libe­
rians know the benefit of acting 
in the common interest. Libe­
rian individualism is based on a 
sense of duty to community and 
humanity and the recognition 
that each person needs a giant’s 
shoulders on which to stand. 
American individualism would 
benefit from learning the same.
— Abraham Keita is a first-year 
in Branford College
“Individualism is 
America’s mantra, 
the crux of the 
American dream 
and American life.”


**Title: EDWARD B. BENNETT III MEMORIAL FELLOWSHIP**
**Author: The New Journal**
**Page number(s): 41**

EDWARD B. BENNETT III 
MEMORIAL FELLOWSHIP
Do you have a story that you want to tell about  Yale or New Haven that requires in-
depth reporting beyond the Elm City? Then apply for the Edward B. Bennett III Me­
morial Fellowship! For an EBMF-supported article, think about the national implications 
of local stories. The Fellowship commemorates the late Edward “Edder” B. Bennett III, 
Yale College Class of 1983, who revived The New Journal after a period of dormancy and 
served as its publisher in the early nineteen-eighties. For an EBMF-supported article, 
think about the national implications of local stories. You might propose investigating 
how a particular issue pertinent to New Haven has been felt in other cities, or how Yale 
has influenced (or been influenced by) a far-away place like Singapore or Sitka.  
Fellows are expected to publish their articles in The New Journal within six months of re­
ceiving the award. Applications for summer projects will be due by May 28, 2021. Please 
email them to editors@thenewjournalatyale.com. Please also feel free to reach out with 
any questions!
Your application, due to us by May 28, 2021, should include the following: 
1.	 A one-page proposal for the article you would like to write. Please tell us: what the 
article is about, how the article relates to Yale or New Haven, what the overarching 
questions will be, why this article should be written now, and why you think it is 
nationally significant. 
2.	 A writing sample, either journalistic or academic. (If you have it, journalism is highly 
preferred.) 
3.	 A budget detailing likely reporting expenses—such as transportation, court document 
fees, translation fees, or anything else. Please describe in detail how travel would 
enhance your proposed story. We expect awards to be on average around $1,000—if 
you have a strong proposal that requires more support, please be specific in explain­
ing why. 

JOIN US!
The New Journal, founded in 1967, is a student-run magazine that publishes 
investigative journalism and creative nonfiction about Yale and New Haven. We 
produce five issues a year that include both long-form and short features, pro­
files, essays, reviews, and poetry. Email us at editors@thenewjournalatyale.com 
to join our writers’ panlist and get updates on future ways to get involved. We’re 
always excited to welcome new writers to our community. You can check out 
past issues of The New Journal at our website 
http://www.thenewjournalatyale.com/. 


**Title: JUICY DETAILS**
**Author: Eli Mennerick**
**Page number(s): 42**

The Inner Citrus made two 
demands. One: I must not inquire 
into their identities. They would 
not reveal those identities, and I 
would not pry. Two: I must par­
take in a shower orange. That 
much, at least, I had expected.

So one evening while my family 
watched TV downstairs, I brought 
a plump navel orange into the 
shower. It felt odd to have it in 
there with me, sort of like being 
trapped in a room with a strange, 
harmless animal. Eventually I 
began to peel the orange. Its skin 
was surprisingly tough. The zest 
caught under my fingernails; the 
juice and pulp leaked down my 
arms; the peel came off in small, 
irregular chunks. Conveniently—
and this is perhaps the most per­
suasive argument voiced by fans 
of the shower orange—the water 
washed all the mess away. I made 
a little pile of peel chunks on a 
shelf in my shower. Then I ate the 
orange. 

It tasted like a standard super­
market 
orange, 
somewhere 
between fine and good. It smelled 
nice, but not noticeably nicer 
than an orange does outside of 
the shower. The shower felt like a 
shower: hot, pleasant. Perhaps the 
twin novelties of eating an orange 
in an unfamiliar place and per­
forming an unfamiliar act in the 
shower made me more mindful 
of each element—that is, perhaps I 
enjoyed both the shower and the 
orange slightly more than I would 
have if I’d experienced them sep­
arately—but I wouldn’t call it lib­
erating, or a sensual reverie, or 
a moment of spiritual transcen­
dence.

The members of the Yale Shower 
Orange Society would. YSOS is 
a secret group of shower orange 
enthusiasts who have vowed to 
“spread the zested message of the 
blessed shower orange,” as they 
assonantly describe their mission. 
I planned to interview their senior 
members—the “Inner Citrus,” as 
they call themselves—later that 
night.  

So I emerged from the shower, 
brought my orange debris to the 
trash, clothed myself, and opened 
the Zoom meeting. On the call 
was Kumquat, a lonely-looking 
orange with human eyes and a 
human mouth floating in front of 
an orange grove. Kumquat told 
me that others would soon arrive. 
Soon, they did. Blood Orange, 
Jaffa Orange, Valencia Orange, 
Clementine, and Tangerine all 
joined Kumquat. Most of them 
had identical setups: the same dig­
ital orange-head in front of a dig­
ital orange grove. Blood Orange 
and Valencia Orange had phoned 
in together. Their camera was off, 
and in lieu of a profile picture their 
square displayed an edited version 
of Magritte’s “The Son of Man.” 
I’m sure you can guess what the 
green apple had been replaced 
with.

The subreddit r/ShowerOrange 
was created in April 2015, but 
the trend didn’t blow up on Red­
dit until the next year. A shower 
orange, in case it isn’t clear yet, is 
nothing more than an orange you 
eat in the shower. Members of r/
ShowerOrange have described eat­
ing a shower orange as “borderline 
euphoric,” “a religious experience,” 
“amazingly blissful,” and gener­
ally transcendent. By the early 
months of 2017, publications like 
Men’s Health, Pure Wow, Vice, and 
even NPR had published online 
articles about the trend. (NPR’s 
testers concluded that eating a 
shower orange was nice, but “not 

Inside Yale’s most illustrious secret society.
BY ELI MENNERICK
COLLAGE AND DESIGN BY ADA GRIFFIN
ENDNOTE



**Title: Shower Oranges**
**Author: Eli Mennerick**
**Page number(s): 43-44**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
life-changing.”) Still, r/ShowerO­
range is active today; it boasts over 
sixty-nine thousand members. The 
trend has had a resurgence on Tik­
Tok as well. Over eighty-seven 
thousand people have viewed the 
hashtag “#orangeinshower.”

On the Zoom call, Blood 
Orange maintained that YSOS had 
been around since 1921. In fact, the 
Inner Citrus had prepared a whole 
slideshow presentation about their 
society’s incredible history. Their 
Latin motto is “AVRANCIA IN 
BALNEIS CERTATIM MAND­
VCAMVS,” which Kumquat help­
fully translated as, “We eat oranges 
in the shower with zest.” YSOS 
was founded, according to this 
presentation, by three Yale under­
graduates: “Bill Gates, on the left, 
Clifford Buchanan, in the cen­
ter, and Jeb Bush, on the right,” 
Blood Orange said, displaying a 
photograph that, I later discov­
ered, is one of the top results if 
you search “1920s fashion men” on 
Google Images. They traced their 
apocryphal history through the 
decades: At first, YSOS had a tomb 
on Orange Street. (I asked where 
the tomb was, exactly. “That’s 
classified,” Kumquat said.) War­
ren G. Harding banned shower 
oranges in 1922, apparently out 
of sheer malice toward what Tan­
gerine called their “daring count­
er-culture.” The ban forced YSOS 
underground. After the 1928 Flor­
ida hurricane wiped out most of 
the state’s orange groves, YSOS 
members turned in desperation to 
shower apples, marking “the low­
est point in shower orange his­
tory,” according to Clementine. 
During the free love movement of 
the Sixties, shower oranges became 
a popular group activity at Yale, 
which again attracted the ire of the 
authorities. Yale’s president at the 
time, Kingman Brewster Jr., con­
demned shower oranges. “YSOS 
disbanded and gave up its tomb,” 
said Jaffa Orange. 

There was then, according to 
this fantastic tale, a period of dor­
mancy from the nineteen-sixties 
onward. YSOS reassembled (or 
assembled, one suspects, for the 
first time) in 2018, but it was a 
small, fragile, secret group. When 
the pandemic interrupted their 
initiation process, the young soci­
ety was in danger of dying for lack 
of new initiates. The members of 
YSOS had to do something if they 
wanted to keep their group alive.

So they went public. In early 
March, YSOS created the Insta­
gram 
account 
“shower.orange.
yale.” They post various bits of 
shower orange content; a graphic 
from March 17 asks, in orange text 
on a blue background, “Where 
is your favorite place to eat an 
orange?” Swiping through the post 
reveals a few options (“Trumbull 
Shower? Saybrook Shower? Pauli 
Murray Shower? Payne Whit­
ney Shower?”) along with a help­
ful photo of each. So far they’ve 
accrued 529 followers.

Entering the public sphere has 
had its downsides. While the Inner 
Citrus have seen plenty of posi­
tive feedback on their Instagram 
account, they’ve also received 
lewd direct messages, apparently 
provoked by the erotic overtones 
some detect in the shower orange. 
Even worse, “We also have people 
coming at us saying things like, 
‘Can I eat a charcuterie board in 
the shower?’” Clementine said. 
“The answer is obviously no.”

Despite their bullies, YSOS 
believes in welcoming others. “At 
a place that is already dripping wet 
with pretentiousness,” Kumquat 
said, referring to Yale, “we try to 
accept any and all followers who 
resonate with our mission.”

Shower oranges continued to 
perplex me—I couldn’t wrap my 
head around the astonishing zeal 
of their admirers. The Inner Cit­
rus, of course, had plenty of expla­
nations. 

Tangerine said the smell makes 
a shower orange special. “Where 
does the smell come most intensely 
to us?” Tangerine asked. “In a very 
warm and humid environment. 
And the most handy would be the 
shower.” (To my disappointment, 
you’ll recall, I found the smell of 
a shower orange no more intense 
than a normal orange.)

“It’s helped me tune into my 
spirituality,” Jaffa Orange said.

“I would argue that partaking 
in a shower orange is actually an 
act of political protest,” Kumquat 
said. “We’re all naked and enjoy­
ing the juice running down our 
bodies—it’s a very humanizing act, 
and therefore is inherently demo­
cratic.”

Clementine decided a poem 
would best express their love for 
shower oranges: “Taking a shower 
with citrus / the juice running 
orange and viscous / I chomp and I 
gnash / till the fruit is a mash / for I 
only have God as my witness.”

“It’s a very old poem,” Clemen­
tine said.


A week later, I tried again with 
a Cara Cara orange—pink, heavy, 
sweet, cold. I’m not saying I saw 
the light. And maybe all the praise 
of the Inner Citrus had clouded 
my judgement. But, I admit, it was 
a pretty phenomenal orange. One 
of my better showers, too.

— Eli Mennerick is a senior in 
Ezra Stiles College and Managing 
Editor of The New Journal.
MAY 2021
 43



Break
Boundaries
Got the app?

