Publication date: October 2013
Volume: 46
Issue number: 2

**MASTHEAD**
- publisher: Tessa Berenson
- editors-in-chief: Sophia Nguyen, Cindy Ok
- executive editor: Benjamin Mueller
- managing editors: Eric Boodman, Julia Calagiovanni
- design editors: Lian Fumerton-Liu, Emmett Kim, David Shatan-Pardo
- photo editor: Maya Binyam
- senior editors: Tao Tao Holmes, Isabel Ortiz, Emma Schindler
- associate editors: Maya Averbuch, Lara Sokoloff, A. Grace Steig, Ike Swetlitz
- copy editors: Nathalie Levine, Justine Yan
- staff writers: Gideon Broshy, Ashley Dalton
- members and directors: Emily Bazelon, Peter B. Cooper, Jonathan Dach, Kathrin Lassila, Eric Rutkow, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, Fred Strebeigh
- advisors: Richard Bradley, Jay Carney, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Jennifer Pitts, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, David Slifka, John Swansburg, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- friends: Michael Addison, Austin Family Fund, Steve Ballou, J. Neela Banerjee, Margaret Bauer, Anson M. Beard, Jr., Blaire Bennett, Richard Bradley, Martha Brant, Susan Braudy, Daniel Brook, Hilary Callahan, Jay Carney, Daphne Chu, Josh Civin, Jonathan M. Clark, Constance Clement, Andy Court, Masi Denison, Albert J. Fox, Mrs. Howard Fox, David Freeman, Geoffrey Fried, Sherwin Goldman, David Greenberg, Stephen Hellman, Laura Heymann, Gerald Hwang, Walter Jacob, Jane Kamensky, Tina Kelley, Roger Kirwood, Jonathan Lear, Lewis E. Lehrman, Jim Lowe, E. Nobles Lowe, Daniel Murphy, Martha E. Neil, Peter Neil, Howard H. Newman, Sean O’Brien, Laura Pappano, Julie Peters, Lewis and Joan Platt, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, Fairfax C. Randal, Robert Randolph, Stuart Rohrer Arleen and Arthur Sager, Richard Shields, W. Hampton Sides, Lisa Silverman, Scott Simpson, Adina Proposco and David Sulsman, Thomas Strong, Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Wilson, Daniel Yergin and Angela Stent Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**

features
Brave New World - Sonja Peterson
Re-Growing Oak Street - A. Grace Steig
standards
personal essay
No Mirrors in my Nana’s House - Navy Encinias
snapshot
A Room with a View - Olivia Schwab
Friends Indeed - Julia Schwartz
endnote
The Week in Review - Eric Boodman
verse
Tobias Kirchwey
Jake Orbison
points of departure
by various authors


**Title: Brave New World**
**Author: Sonja Peterson**
**Page number(s): 20**


**Title: Re-Growing Oak Street**
**Author: A. Grace Steig**
**Page number(s): 30**


**Title: No Mirrors in my Nana’s House**
**Author: Navy Encinias**
**Page number(s): 4**


**Title: A Room with a View**
**Author: Olivia Schwab**
**Page number(s): 12**


**Title: Friends Indeed**
**Author: Julia Schwartz**
**Page number(s): 19**


**Title: The Week in Review**
**Author: Eric Boodman**
**Page number(s): 27**


**Title: points of departure**
**Author: various authors**
**Page number(s): 38**




**Title: Now in 3D**
**Author: Madeleine Witt**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
“This is half a lung.” Mark Michalski held up 
a twisting piece of plastic, one inch thick, 
to his chest. To me, it looked like roots on 
the underside of a tree, with small white 
tendrils poking through brown mesh. This 
was one of Michalski’s first attempts to 
create customized plastic models of human 
organs. 

Michalski is a fourth-year resident at 
Yale-New Haven Hospital. Over the past 
year, he has been making plastic replicas 
of body parts using the machines at Yale’s 
Center for Engineering Innovation and 
Design (CEID), an engineering workshop 
space located on the bottom floor of Becton 
Center on Prospect Street. The CEID pro­
vides materials, tools, and advising for any 
Yale student who signs up to be a member. 
One such tool is a 3D printer. It works like 
a regular inkjet printer, but rather than de­
positing one layer of ink on paper, it depos­
its many layers of material, usually plas­
tic, to create a three-dimensional object.  
Michalski converts patients’ medical data 
into instructions for the printers at CEID, 
which then produce plastic models unique 
to each patient. 

What started as a pet project is mor­
phing into a technology that could revolu­
tionize surgery and, more importantly to 
Michalski, help doctors communicate with 
patients about their diseases. Aside from 
the lung, his recent projects include a frac­
tured pelvis, a diseased kidney, and a can­
cerous prostate.

As a radiologist, Michalski spends his 
days looking at MRI and CT scans of the 
insides of people’s bodies, analyzing these 
scans to diagnose diseases and plan treat­
ments. In his office, Michalski used his 
laptop to show me a 3D skeleton with a 
fractured pelvis. He rotated the skeleton 
with a computer mouse, highlighted vari­
ous bones, and opened 2D slices of the 3D 
model. Staring at the screen, I felt nowhere 
near the real thing, an operating room 
where a surgeon would manipulate a pa­
tient’s pelvis. 

“3D reconstructions give you some 
great data,” Michalski said. “But…for a lot 
of populations who are not radiologists”—
he lowered his voice—“even within the ra­
diologist community, frankly, there’s value 
that comes from being able to hold [the or­
gan].” So he looked into 3D printing at the 
CEID. He created his first model on a low-
end 3D printer, which is about the same 
size and twice the price of a new MacBook 
Pro.

“It all started on that MakerBot right 
there,” Michalski told me, pointing to the 
printer. Within a wooden frame, a small 
black box moved back and forth along met­
al rods, squeezing out plastic like glue from 
a hot glue gun. This machine had printed 
the root-like lung Michalski had shown me 
earlier. While Michalski and I spoke, two 
other students watched the MakerBot spit 
out a custom iPhone case.

About a year ago, Michalski was print­
ing a version of the lung when his project 
caught the attention of Joseph Zinter, as­
sociate director of the CEID. Zinter and Mi­
chalski started talking about the concept 
and they were soon partnering to advance 
the work of 3D printing. Zinter has since 
put hundreds of hours into the project and 
established a special fund for organ print­
ing at the CEID. The two have discussed 
points of departure


potential applications for this technology, 
including educating medical students, in­
forming patients about their conditions, 
and helping surgeons prepare for compli­
cated procedures.

This last idea has already been put into 
practice. Joseph Turek, chief of pediatric 
surgery at the University of Iowa Chil­
dren’s Hospital, has been using 3D-printed 
models of hearts for almost a year. They 
help him finalize his strategy and gain con­
fidence for performing surgery when the 
stakes are much higher. “When I go into the 
operating room, it’s the exact same thing 
that I’m seeing,” Turek said. 

This summer, Michalski printed a can­
cerous knee for an orthopedic surgeon at 
Yale. While preparing for surgery, the sur­
geon put the model on his desk, took out 
his surgical tools, and determined the best 
way to excise the tumor without damaging 
the surrounding area. The model allowed 
him to practice technique without conse­
quence.

These 3D printing projects now take up 
most of Michalski’s time. But in addition 
to his residency, he is pursuing a Ph.D. in 
investigative medicine at Yale. “I have no 
idea if you can write a thesis on this sort 
of thing,” Michalski said. “But I think it’s 
interesting enough”—he corrected himself 
—“important enough, that I’ve got to do it.”

The models’ educational and surgical 
applications are significant. But Michalski 
is primarily drawn to this work because it 
could better inform patients about how a 
disease affects their own organs. Holding a 
model of your liver when you have been di­
agnosed with a tumor gives you a concrete 
sense of what that means.  

“The story, for me, won’t end until I’ve 
used this technology to make patients un­
derstand better what’s going on inside their 
body,” Michalski said. “If we can print new 
bracelets and trinkets with these [print­
ers], then we can print meaningful objects 
for people who are really undergoing the 
battle of their life.”


**Title: This Little Light of Theirs**
**Author: Ike Swetlitz**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

On August 24, scandal struck St. Thomas’s 
Episcopal Church on Whitney Avenue: a 
lamp was stolen. In an interview with the 
New Haven Register, church rector Father 
Michael Ray announced a reward and a 
no-questions-asked return policy for the 
small, silver, Victorian lamp that had hung 
above the church’s altar for more than 
twenty years. The lamp’s absence was felt 
“like a hole,” he said.

The story of the lamp’s arrival at St. 
Thomas’s is steeped in community lore. 
Every parishioner I spoke to repeated the 
basic story as though he had heard and told 
it hundreds of times. About twenty-five 
years ago, a pair of now-deceased sisters 
paid for the lamp to be sent from Italy (or 
some other distant country, depending on 
whom I asked) and placed over the altar in 
honor of their brother, who had recently 
passed away. Whether lit by candle or elec­
tricity, the lamp had shone in the sanctu­
ary ever since.

The church’s property manager, Ju­
lie Kelly, was preparing to place a fresh 
eight-day candle into the lamp when she 
first noticed its absence. She made fran­
tic phone calls, “hoping against hope” that 
someone had taken it down for cleaning. 
Each call ended in disappointment, and she 
quickly realized that it had been stolen. 
Kelly describes herself as more “security-
minded” than St. Thomas’s leaders, who 
prefer to emphasize openness and trust in 
the church community. But she was proud 
to say that the violation of trust would not 
cause the church to shut itself off from the 
world. 

“People who come here for worship re­
ally have an expectation of safety in so 
many ways,” Kelly told me. “We want to 
be careful without putting up these giant 
barriers to people. That’s just the constant 
conflict.”

When I arrived at the church at 8:45 
on a Sunday morning in September, there 
seemed to be no sign that anything was 
missing—except people. The sparsely at­
tended eight o’clock service had already 
ended, and worshippers had not yet begun 
to assemble for the next, and more crowd­
ed, ten o’clock service. But the church doors 
were wide open, and the sanctuary was 
lit with sunshine filtered through stained 
glass windows. 

Outside, Sandy Anagnostakis, a small 
and elderly woman, was removing the 
spent flower buds from a rhododendron 
bush. The work wasn’t necessary, she told 
me, but it looks nicer this way. Reverence 
for the church’s physical space easily ex­
tends to the objects it houses—even those 
that strike outsiders like me as quotidian. 
Anagnostakis has been a member of St. 
Thomas’s for eight years, and she was at 
church the Sunday after the lamp was sto­
len. 

“It was quite a shock to all of us, because 
it was such a part of the background beau­
ty of the church,” she said, still picking off 
flower buds. Beyond the shock, the circum­
stances of the crime struck congregants as 
particularly odd. The thief left behind two 
silver candleholders, which are likely more 
valuable than the lamp and were easily ac­
cessible on tables at either side of the altar.

I had gone to St. Thomas’s expecting to 
find lamp zealots angrily calling for police 
to organize a statewide search of pawn­
shops. Instead, I found congregants seem­
ing to apologize for their sadness at the 
loss of a material object. At the first service 
without the lamp in a quarter of a centu­
ry, the church congregants prayed for the 
thief—that he or she had been able to use it 
to relieve a pressing need for food or mon­
ey, and had found emotional solace.

When I finally met Father Ray, the rec­
tor in the Register’s article, I was slightly 
disappointed to find that, despite his col­
lar, Ray looked much more like a harried 
businessman than I’d pictured. Glasses sat 
on his round head, which was topped with 
salt-and-pepper hair, and his voice still 
bore traces of a childhood spent in central 
Texas. He recalled there was more to the 
lamp’s journey to St. Thomas, aspects of its 
story which sounded even more miraculous 
than what I had heard from the congre­
gants. Though paid for by the sisters, it had 
originally been discovered in a flea market 
by Father Ray’s predecessor, who bought it 
when it was grimy and seemed of little val­
ue. When the rector paid to have the lamp 
cleaned, he found that it was made of ster­
ling silver. 

But the lamp’s monetary value is not 
what made it important. When Father Ray 
became rector, he had the electrical wiring 
taken out of the lamp and replaced with 
a candle, which was always lit, symboliz­
ing eternal hope. Over the years, the lamp 
became part of the identity of the phyical 
church, and of its community.

“A lot of what we feel is tied up with 
spiritual and emotional senses that are dif­
ficult to describe,” Father Ray said. “I don’t 
know how else to describe it. We know it’s 
not an important thing in the whole realm 
of issues.” 

As if to convince himself, he repeated, 
“It’s not important.”



**Title: Folk Wisdom**
**Author: Madeleine Witt**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
september 2013
7
Hidden behind high stone walls and a 
wrought-iron gate, Edgerton Park looks 
like a stately sentry, a signal to cars and 
passersby that they have reached the New 
Haven-Hamden town line. But on the first 
Saturday of every September, Edgerton 
becomes an inviting festival ground. The 
musicians, vendors, and exhibitors at the 
annual Connecticut Folk Festival & Green 
Expo set up camp atop the park’s grassy 
hillsides, filling it with the mingled sounds 
of folk music and children at play. 

Winding my way along the outskirts 
of this year’s festival, I take stock of the 
spectacle. To my right, a flock of unsuper­
vised children gathers around a white tent 
where a grown-up fairy princess waves her 
arms in swooping circles. A young boy at­
tempts to swivel his hips at the adjacent 
hula hoop station. The banner at the Won­
derful Worms booth invites the brave and 
the dirt-loving to plunge their hands into 
pots of worm-filled soil and learn about its 
fertilizing properties. I have found my way 
to the kiddie section of the festival: the 
Green Kids’ Village.

Beyond face-painting and free child­
care, the Green Kids’ Village exemplifies 
the festival’s commitment to education, 
founder and coordinator Coleen Camp­
bell tells me. Of the more than eighty-five 
booths populating the vendor village this 
year, approximately twenty are in a work­
shop or performance format. The commer­
cial aims of the festival are modest. Even 
vendors recognize that the most valuable 
aspect of a small-scale event such as CT 
Folk will be the customer interactions. 
Vendors are not just peddling their organi­
cally grown apples, for instance; along with 
that apple, they hand over a lesson on the 
harmful effects of pesticides. 

These lessons are passed on to attend­
ees of all ages, says Campbell: “When you 
grab kids at a young age and educate them 
in fun ways about the environment, hope­
fully they will carry on and be the next co­
ordinator of a green expo!”

Joe DeRisi, owner of Urbanminers, a 
deconstruction and salvaging business in 
South Hamden, calls this model of educa­
tion “seed planting.” The metaphor is fit­
ting: CT Folk is ultimately an exercise in 
community growth. The focus on youth 
education and community outreach helps 
create a space where likeminded commu­
nity members can meet and forge connec­
tions, laying the groundwork for a more 
cohesive and environmentally sustainable 
community.  

The sweet melodies of folk duo Hannah 
& Maggie float over a sea of white tents 
and draw me towards the festival’s central 
stage. Live music is a central part of the 
festival. Campbell explains that folk music 
and environmentalism are a natural com­
bination, harkening back to the Great De­
pression days of Woody Guthrie and Pete 
Seeger.

In previous years, the folk festival had 
been a ticketed event, featuring headlin­
ers like Judy Collins and Emmylou Harris. 
This was its second year with free admis­
sion, and a lineup of lesser-known local 
musicians. Barbara Shiller, president of 
the CT Folk Board of Directors, says, “My 
hope is that people will come to the event, 
perhaps not having heard of the musicians, 
but with an understanding that they will 
hear good music.”

In keeping with folk’s customarily fluid 
definition, this year’s festival included mu­
sical acts ranging from country-inspired 
acoustic performers like Darrel Scott, to 
soulful harmonizers like Brother Sun, to 
quick-step bluegrass numbers performed 
by Yale’s own Professors of Bluegrass, 
which includes Yale President Peter Sa­
lovey on the bass. On and off of the low-
lying, white, wooden stage, the musicians 
appear at ease with the crowds. Many are 
CT Folk regulars, and they form part of 
an intimate local music scene. Some, like 
Hannah & Maggie, are out-of-towners who 
have grown attached to the festival’s musi­
cal community. 

CT Folk is a labor of love for all involved—
Campbell, Shiller, their colleagues on the 
board, and the host of yellow-clad volun­
teers who graciously accommodate the 
needs of vendors, musicians, and attendees 
alike. Shiller invited all of the volunteers 
and coordinators to her home as a celebra­
tory thank-you, both prior to and after the 
festival. She recognizes that local events 
like CT Folk are community-building acts. 
“Whether it’s environmental activism, or 
sharing in the love of music—when you’re 
working together to make something hap­
pen, you’re part of a community.”

This hard work has brought us CT Folk 
in all its summer-day glory. Vendors and 
customers chat like old friends. Festival 
volunteers call out to familiar faces in the 
audience. In line for Ashley’s ice cream, two 
strangers strike up a conversation about a 
side business in bike repair. Musicians, fil­
tering off stage at the end of their act, find 
a spot among the scattering of picnic blan­
kets and beach chairs, blending with audi­
ence members and playfully heckling their 
musical peers. 

Stretching out into the late afternoon 
and evening, the festival stakes its claim 
on this last warm day in September, re­
minding us that there’s still time for an­
other song. 


**Title: Anna in the Park**
**Author: Emily Quint-Hoover & Devon Geyelin**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

8
the new journal
Vast gray clouds roll across the sky, shield­
ing New Haven from the morning sun. In 
the center of Yale’s Cross Campus a tall 
metal chair waits, six folding chairs ar­
rayed in front of it. A student emerges from 
Calhoun College, his hair spiked, a cigarette 
dangling from his lips. A ponytailed runner 
jogs by, and dozens of under-caffeinated 
students plod to class. The day will bring 
class discussions, email breakups, and 
drunken dances—imperceptible struggles 
and unrecognized victories.

Just past nine a.m., a young man hold­
ing a thick paperback approaches the chair 
and sits. The reader opens the book and re­
gards his audience of one. He begins: “Anna 
Karenina. By Leo Tolstoy. Chapter One: All 
happy families are alike; all unhappy fami­
lies are unhappy each in their own way. All 
was confusion…”

The reader is a junior named Eric Sira­
kian, and he is the first participant in a mar­
athon reading of Anna Karenina that will 
span the next thirty-six hours. The reading 
project is co-sponsored by the Humanities 
department and the Dramat’s production 
of Anna in the Tropics, a play in which Cu­
ban immigrants in a cigar factory listen to 
the story of Anna Karenina in 1929. The 
work earned a Pulitzer for its author, for­
mer Yale School of Drama professor Nilo 
Cruz, in 2003. Sirakian directed the play at 
Yale in early October, but wanted the pro­
duction to extend beyond the theater.

“The play and the novel are connected,” 
he said. “It’s a play that really celebrates 
storytelling and the power of stories to 
take us away from the manic world and to 
understand ourselves more closely.”

As he reads, Sirakian wears a plain gray 
shirt and black pants, a far cry from the 
fine riding gear of Anna’s lovers. But he 
reads the opening passages smoothly, with 
muted theatrics, stumbling only occasion­
ally over the long Russian family names 
and patronymics. 

In time, several other students take 
seats opposite the reader’s chair, and ac­
cidental spectators stand nearby, drawn 
by the strangeness of it all. They key in to 
the epic story of love, family, society, and 
betrayal in nineteenth-century St. Peters­
burg. Kerry Philben, the next scheduled 
reader, arrives with her dog, a yellow lab, 
and waits for her turn to bring Tolstoy’s 
Tsarist Russia to life. Soon, she takes over 
for Sirakian, picking up where he left off 
with an impressive Russian accent. An­
other undergrad named Javier Cienfuegos, 
outfitted in a bow tie and blazer, taps his 
foot beneath his chair as he anticipates his 
turn. When he takes the stand, he starts 
describing Oblonsky’s goal to take all the 
pleasure he can out of life; meanwhile, 
some tourists and their microphone-clad 
leader come by and threaten to overwhelm 
Tolstoy with their oblivious chatter.

People mostly pass by in a rush, too 
busy to listen as Anna falls for the dash­
ing Count Vronski, imperils her marriage 
to Count Karenin, and abandons her young 
son for the sake of a doomed love affair. 
Was Yale shunning Anna as surely as St. 
Petersburg society had?

9
Yale’s campus is a poignant place for 
Anna to be brought to life; mere blocks 
from the reading, Tolstoy’s son Ilya lies 
buried in the Grove Street Cemetery under 
a black slate headstone that depicts the 
crucifix of the Russian Orthodox Church. 
The younger Tolstoy moved to Connecti­
cut just before the Russian revolution. He 
established an artists’ colony a few miles 
from campus and spent the rest of his life 
there. Although many of the world’s most 
eminent writers, including Nabokov and 
Dostoyevsky, have called Anna Karenina 
the greatest novel ever written, Ilya main­
tained that his father hated the work and 
wished it had been burned.

For thirty-six hours, a devoted group 
of readers immerse themselves in its lan­
guage and setting, and in the passion of its 
protagonists. Virgil Blanc, a junior who has 
never read the book, spends more hours 
than any of the other volunteer readers 
narrating Anna’s tribulations. Wrapped in 
a fleece blanket to ward off the cold, Blanc 
reads for five straight hours, from two to 
seven a.m. “I wanted to see the transfor­
mation of reading aloud after five hours 
of doing it,” said Blanc, who isn’t a stranger 
to testing his endurance, but usually does 
so with marathon runs and bike rides. “I 
couldn’t see what happened to the listen­
ers, but I could see what happened to me.”

For much of the night, Blanc is alone. 
He grows closer to the work. As the char­
acters suffer, so does he. As they weep, his 
tears flow, too. Close to four a.m., a student 
returning from a night of revelry stumbles 
across the scene and listens for a few mo­
ments. “Right on, man,” he says, nodding his 
head.

The sun rises. Another night falls. The 
sky is dark and clear. With no classes beck­
oning, students amble across campus. It 
is Yale’s family weekend, and many have 
parents in tow. Anna’s life shatters as she 
moves from Russia to Italy and back, as she 
morphs from bored wife to reckless lover 
to social outcast.

What matters is not how many people 
listen. Tolstoy’s words, read aloud, bring 
Anna’s anguish, foolishness, and mistakes 
to the center of campus. Even as our hero­
ine, falling from grace, hurls herself under 
the wheels of a train, she lives.




**Title: The Doctor Diminishing Death**
**Author: Madeleine Witt**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
10
the new journal
The title of the eighteenth-century Brit­
ish print, “The Doctor Diminishing Death,” 
seems too triumphant for the scene. Death, 
a skeleton, climbs through the open win­dow of a sick man’s room, eyeing his next 
victim: a thin, nervous, pale man. The doc­
tor, slightly disheveled in a red coat and 
breeches, points a golden medical instru­
ment at the intruder in a desperate attempt 
to stave off his advance. The patient shields 
himself with the only available object—his 
porridge spoon.


Despite its grim subject matter, the 
print, which satirizes medicine’s some­
times futile fight against nature, is meant 
to be light-hearted. In this respect, it is 
typical of the prints in the Clements C. Fry 
Collection at the Yale School of Medicine. 
The collection features prints on subjects 
ranging from mental hospitals to hypnosis. 
It spans five centuries, with works by over 
six hundred artists. Satirical British and 
French prints from the late seventeenth 
and eighteenth centuries, often poking fun 
at the pain of illness or the incompetence 
of bad doctors, make up the majority of the 
collection. 


Though the Fry Collection contains 
nearly eight thousand prints and draw­
ings, its contents are squirreled away in the 
basement of the medical school’s histori­
cal library. It is open to public viewing, but 
only by request. Since the subject matter 
is unusual and highly specific, the collec­
tion doesn’t exactly draw crowds. Incred­
ible care, however, is devoted to preserving 
the objects in the dusty basement recesses. 
Alongside the labyrinth of rooms housing 
old books and prints are technologically 
advanced printers, scanners, and machines 
for turning the pages of old books, to keep 
oily fingers from touching the prints. Those 
in the know will tell you that, despite the 
aura of obscurity, the Fry Collection is one 
of the most well-known medical print col­
lections in the world.


Medical prints sound like a dusty area 
of study, but as William Hefland will tell 
you, the intersection of art and science is 
fascinating. One of the collection’s most 
prominent donors, Hefland has a back­
ground in pharmaceuticals but fell in love 
with medical art soon after beginning to 
explore it. Now a recognized figure in the 
medical print-collecting field, he spoke 
fondly of one German poster abstractly de­
picting a man as a chemical plant, a print he 
tracked down after losing it to a physician 
friend at an auction. In fact, he stressed 
that much of the prints’ worth comes from 
their aesthetic appeal—they give research­
ers less medical historical information 
than I had imagined. 


“You’d like to have illustrations of cer­
tain moments in history,” Helfand told me. 
“But you don’t.”


Much of the artwork depicts scenes the 
artists did not actually view; the satires 
twist historical facts to illustrate certain 
points. A common trope of British carica­
ture mocks the rural apothecary’s absurd 
treatment of an unsuspecting peasant with 
bizarre animal-derived products.  


To explain the niche these prints origi­
nally occupied, the collection’s curator, Su­
san Wheeler, likened them to satirical car­
toons in the New Yorker today. Many of the 
works appeared in daily newspapers, and 
others were sold in print shops as decora­
tion. A closer examination of the prints and 
drawings can reveal a time period’s con­


---
**Title: The Doctor Diminishing Death (continued)**
**Page number(s): 11**

september 2013
11
temporary politics and popular thought 
about medicine. Along with its humorous 
pieces, the collection also contains a wide 
variety of serious works depicting medical 
hardships. The most haunting of these por­
tray the trials of mental illness. A black-
and-white, late-eighteenth-century print 
titled “Madness” shows a young woman, 
slightly disheveled and wrapped in a shawl, 
glancing toward the viewer with a searing 
expression of desperation and horror. 


Each year, only a handful of research­
ers, if any, request access to the collection’s 
resources. They primarily use them to lo­
cate images for papers and books on rel­
evant medical and historical topics. John 
Booss, a professor emeritus of neurology 
at Yale, contacted Wheeler when searching 
for images to illustrate his book, To Catch a 
Virus. He ended up using four posters from 
the Historical Medical Posters collection, 
noting the importance of the images’ aes­
thetic appeal. Booss wrote about the his­
tory of diagnostic virology for the general 
public as well as a technical audience, and 
he needed images that would appeal to all 
readers. 


 “Medicine has become so highly tech­
nical that doctors are at risk of becoming 
highly-skilled technicians, and a great deal 
of the humanity of medicine is lost,” Booss 
warns. He sees art as a powerful way for 
scientists to speak to the general public, 
if those scientists can realize it; although 
many of its individual prints satirize the 
grotesque, dehumanizing aspects of ill­
ness, the Fry Collection may bridge the gap 
between doctors and the general public. 


Though there are few visitors, the me­
ticulous preservation of the art allows 
researchers to present this side of medi­
cine. Work like Booss’s helps bring hidden 
prints, if only a fraction of the thousands in 
the Fry collection, outside the dusty base­
ment doors. 
—Emily Efland


**Title: The Volcano**
**Author: Tobias Kirchwey**
**Page number(s): 12**

12
poetry
Every night, boats glide out from behind 
The island to keep an eye on the volcano
And draw its luster out, through red eruptions,
 into the sailors’ eyes, and into the water
which holds itself against the boat, 
against the island, and cools the stones
intolerable to the skin.
Lapilli falling steadily from far away
Slowly rake the night-slide of ash
to water. The water keeps time, as
Tuna are trawled in in a net between two boats.
Arm after arm, fishermen bring them to a calm place.  
On the rocks that slip below and rise out again, 
Mother walks to meet the waves
And the waves meet her with a splash and spill.
Is it enough to fill a black volcanic basin?
She descends wading deep.
The sand slopes so sharply that if she looks down,
She sees depth with no floor, 
And the island begs in the distance, 
For tall grass, brush and broom made by the moon,
Drawn by an inland wind into blue straw bales
Before dispersing like hair. 



**Title: Warm Wool**
**Author: Jake Orbison**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
september 2013
13
When I was a boy, my mother showed my sister
how to milk the sheep. Once she’d fastened
the ropes around the neck and feet, she stuck 
her cheek in the pelvic crook, digging
her grayed black hair into the browned white wool.	
The smell was stale, warm and sweet.

I ask you if nurturing is feminine, laughing
you say yes. But you are very feminine. 
My head didn’t fit; my wrist on your hip—
shower water drizzled from your lips like laughter.
I dried lying on the bathmat between the sink 
and the wall, and after I heard you really laughing. 
With the steam rushing out into the cold and open, you 
held your hair and wrapped a towel around your neck. 
A drained, wrinkled grin dripped last drops right past me.
Go on then—baa your head off. 


**Title: No Mirrors in my Nana’s House**
**Author: Navy Encinias**
**Page number(s): 14**

14
the new journal
No Mirrors
in my
Nana’s 
House
by Navy Encinias
I’ve been thinking about mirrors. Mainly, I’ve been remem­
bering that, for some months not too long ago, I took it upon 
myself to have a strange daily encounter with a mirror, every 
day except Sunday. Often I’d spend several hours in front of 
the mirror in the morning, and then again in the evening. I’d 
go home and eat alone in my bedroom, and I’d fall asleep soon 
after. I’d wake up and do it again. Because most days looked 
alike, I have trouble remembering them distinctly. So I was 
surprised when I realized a few days ago that I had kept this 
ritual alive for nine months—my entire sophomore year of col­
lege. 

Mirrors provide us with an overwhelming amount of in­
formation about ourselves. That information—the clear and 
accurate image—is objective, or seems so. What I see in a mir­
ror I take to be true and assertive, and because mirrors com­
municate with rare candor and immediacy, it’s easy to grow 
dependent on them. Mirrors show you where and who you are. 
Think, for example, of the experience of sitting across from a 
friend late at night, when she’s willing to tell you something 
about you. Seeing myself through others this way has protect­
ed me on many occasions. I am uncertain of myself otherwise. 
But as soon as I began asking mirrors for something specific 
that year, the need for information became dangerous. It be­
came a quiet and desperate “I want, I want,” with an immediate 
response: the clear and accurate image. 

Illustrations by Devon Geyelin


**Title: Untitled**
**Author:  (Not specified)**
**Page number(s): 15**

15
I grew up dancing, and I rely on this sen­
timental-sounding phrase to explain that I 
began dancing well before I wanted to. For 
many years I danced as much as I played 
or worked at school, and when I came of 
age, I confronted dance as an inextricable 
part of my sense of self. Dancing places me 
squarely within my family and its dramas 
and daily life, because my family is full of 
dancers. My choice to go to college was, in 
many ways, drastically alternative. I was 
raised with the assumption that, someday, 
I would go on to dance full-time. When I 
return home, I find the assumption still 
alive.  Sometimes I think of my time here 
as a sanctioned, four-year vacation from 
being who I am. Tomorrow I’ll wake up and re­
member that I’m actually 
a dancer, and have been 
this whole time. 

Part of the unique 
claim that dance has on 
a dancer’s identity is 
that, in order to become 
a good dancer, you must 
be raised according to its 
precepts. Most good dancers are children, 
their skill and talent not a consequence of 
choice, but of strict deference to figures of 
authority. And so when parents raise their 
children, they guide them toward what 
is useful in their endeavors. When danc­
ers raise their children, they guide them 
toward mirrors. Nothing is so useful, be­
cause dancers use mirrors to understand 
their work. Terrifyingly, their work is their 
own bodies. To grow up dancing, I felt, was 
to learn that being hard-working and self-
critical was not a matter of introspection, 
but one of constantly improving the way I 
appeared in a mirror. 

When I arrived at college, I felt inade­
quate to my peers, homesick, and incapable 
of finding my way here. I knew I had come 
to Yale to find a place in the world, so at the 
beginning of my sophomore year, I Googled 
the closest ballet studio and started going 
every day. Nothing tells you who you are so 
accurately as a mirror; ballet studios are 
full of them. 

I attended ballet class that year with 
a newfound desperation. I know this be­
cause if I try, I now remember those nine 
months as one continuous staring into the 
mirror, a time in which I kept noticing the 
shortcomings of my own body, and return­
ing my gaze back to the image of my re­
flected eyes. Because ballet is an exacting 
art form, it quickly becomes psychologi­
cally disturbing, in its recursiveness and 
in its daily demands. Your leg is never high 
or long enough; there is always someone 
better than you. I found solace in looking 
myself in the eye threateningly, demand­
ing of myself that I work 
harder. By the end of the 
year, I had overused my 
right hip flexor and de­
veloped a crippling anxi­
ety problem. I had no idea 
who I was. 

But there are some 
things from that time 
that I remember clearly. 
A dancer’s talent, for ex­
ample, is measured in two ways: how much 
physical potential he was born with and 
has maintained, and how willing he is to 
grit his teeth and use it well. This appears 
to be a standard definition of talent, until 
you hear ballet teachers reconcile the two 
metrics and reassign students into multi­
plying categories. There are dancers “with 
great facility,” but who are lazy. These 
dancers often look as they should, but re­
main weak and careless. There are dancers 
who are “inspiring” because they work hard 
and “to their full potential.” These dancers 
don’t have the body to do well, but “love to 
dance.” Then there are dancers who are 
beautiful. 

So few dancers strike this balance and 
achieve that distinction. Those who do of­
ten acquire an eerie, almost glassy look in 
their eye. They rarely find their own eyes 
in the mirror. Rarely do they look you in 
yours. I think, somewhere along the way, 
I grew up dancing, and I 
rely on this sentimental-
sounding phrase to explain 
that I began dancing well 
before I wanted to.



**Title: Untitled**
**Author:  Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
they’ve lost the sense that their bodies be­
long to them. Obedient now only to music 
and the direction of their keepers, their 
every movement is the consequence of a 
balance serendipitously struck long ago, 
when they were deemed beautiful chil­
dren. After growing up disciplined, they 
earn a career, one in which they are wo­
ken up to rehearse, then again to perform. 
Their artistic skill is called, by many, “in­
terpretive”—that is, at the whim of what 
they interpret. They work hard, but their 
work has the look of ritual. Watching those 
dancers is like watching objects suspended 
in midair, fragile because they’ll soon fall. 
Regardless, it’s beautiful. I’m not quite sure 
what I envied, but I think it was everything. 
Dancers are called 
narcissistic, 
because 
they’re 
obsessed 
with 
the beauty of their own 
image. 
But 
beautiful 
dancers are no longer 
obsessed, per se; their 
beauty and talent is the very water they 
swim in—a banal and constant reality. 
Those obsessed are those of us in desperate 
need to see ourselves in the mirror and find 
the reflection a certain way. Narcissism is 
hardly the word: there is no erotic interest 
or latent egotism, no pleasure in the act of 
reflection. It is, more simply, a consuming 
aspiration, a sort of unhealthy relation­
shi—a dependence on a mirror that will 
never give you what you ask of it. It took 
me awhile to understand it, but eventually 
I think I did: it’s the dependency that devel­
ops when you love something, and it simply 
won’t love you back. If you are lucky and 
beautiful—if dancing somehow does love 
you back—the mirror is no longer useful to 
you. You get that look in your eye; you earn 
a career. Even after you fall and retire, you 
carry the look with you. 
Around that time I decided to become 
an art history major. The work was a fa­
miliar, even convenient exercise, and I 
wasn’t ready to challenge myself more 
than I already was. It required looking at 
images and interpreting what I saw. I was 
more successful the more exacting I was, 
the more I demanded out of what I looked 
at. Most of the time, I neglected that work 
and performed it on myself instead. Such 
an intense and sustained look at your­
self isn’t healthy; it doesn’t improve you 
and it isn’t what we’re at school to do. But 
by nature, I’m a very willful dreamer, and 
the situation complicated when a ballet 
teacher told me I had enough talent to quit 
college and dance full-time. Who knows if 
it was true—but I looked harder at myself 
regardless, and willfully called that look­
ing a dream. A few weeks later, I couldn’t 
move my right leg at night. Sometimes I’d 
black out for seconds at a time; I think from 
nerves. I remember now 
that when I’d return to 
consciousness, I was usu­
ally looking at myself in 
a mirror—in a bathroom 
somewhere, or standing 
in front of the full-length 
in my sophomore suite.  
One day, I did the reading for seminar 
and found some help in it. It was an essay 
on Édouard Manet’s “Un bar aux Folies 
Bergère,” by an art historian named T.J. 
Clark. Manet paints a barmaid attending 
her bar. Everything in the painting takes 
on the quality of a reflective surface. On 
display and for sale are a bowl of a shining 
clementines and two roses in a vase, liquor 
bottles with modern labels, and presum­
ably, the barmaid herself. She shows a pa­
tron the fleshy insides of her forearms, and 
there’s a bunch of flowers collected at her 
cleavage. She has an eerie, almost glassy 
look in her eye. We get an overwhelming 
amount of information, however, from the 
framed mirror behind her. In its reflection, 
we see the sheer enormity of the Folies-
Bergère—the lurid, electric lights, the hun­
dreds of people, a trapeze artist swinging 
overhead. Amid the bustle, the mirror also 
captures a quiet exchange. The barmaid 
leans forward to her patron, in a delicate 
performance of femininity and supplica­
tion. The reflection shows one barmaid, 
servile and attentive—and yet her eyes sug­
gest another, hardly servile and hardly at­
tentive. It seems she’s forgotten where she 
is. 
“A mirror is a surface on which a seg­
ment of the surrounding world appears, 
directly it seems, in two dimensions,” Clark 
writes. “As such it has often been taken as 
a good metaphor for painting.” The mirror 
may be a device that flattens, but it never 
fixes. Unlike painting, the segments of 
the world that a mirror captures are never 
rendered permanent. What’s flattened and 
framed by the mirror is always flickering 
and variable—subject to immediate and 
constant change. Clark continues, “there 
is literally nothing behind the barmaid 
but glass,” and he’s right. It’s just a piece 
of glass. He goes on to say that “there is a 
plain fact of vision somewhere” and, frank­
ly, I wonder where it is. I wonder if, in all its 
plainness, the fact of vision is ever satisfy­
ing. 


I kept asking the mirror for the plain 
and the factual, the immediately satisfying, 
and it never came. What’s most frustrating 
now is that, as many times as I looked at 
myself in the mirror that year, not one of 
those sustained stares still belongs to me. 
They’re lost now, or I’ve misplaced them. 
I have a large mirror in my bedroom this 
year, but I can’t find them there either, and 
maybe it’s best that they’re missing. Instead 
I have a few pairs of ballet slippers left and 
a drawer of practice clothes. They’re black 
and well-worn, and I cherish them now as 
surviving relics from a bad time. 
My grandmother and I had a conversa­
tion about it all one afternoon, and I cried 
about it for the first time. She made a few 
promises: that even though I never trusted 
the mirror to show me so, that my body 
is strong and beautiful. She told me that 
this trouble was bound to come, but that it 
has passed. She promised that tomorrow 
I would wake up and remember that I am 
who I am becoming, and not who I am in 
the mirror, and maybe not a dancer at all. 
There was nothing immediately plain or 
factual about what she said, but for some 
reason, I’ve been better ever since.


**Title: A Room With a View**
**Author: Olivia Schwob**
**Page number(s): 18**

The card reader glows a prohibitive red. 
It is barely September, and Yale’s campus 
is poised on the brink of the new semes­
ter. The clusters of graduate students who 
will soon clog the front steps of the build­
ing, smoking their menthols or scraping at 
Styrofoam pad thai containers with plastic 
forks, are nowhere to be seen. Green Hall 
is still waiting for its occupants. Coming 
in from the hard light of Chapel Street at 
noon, I pass through double glass doors 
into the cool dark of the atrium.

The painting studios are on the second 
floor, and I take the stairs with a rhythm 
now familiar to me. Usually, most of these 
rooms are locked, but today the heavy met­
al doors are flung wide open. The whole 
place feels atypically loose, and peaceful. 
The soles of my shoes crack the quiet, send­
ing an echo into the corridor as fluorescent 
lights flicker on to mark my way.

I note with satisfaction that Room 211, 
at least, is locked. I fish my key ring out of 
my bag and feel around for a thick brass 
talisman, with “AZHU” printed on its head. 
I know the right key by its weight in my 
hand, and the door unlocks with a familiar 
schhckk. Room 211 is empty—it’s the early 
days, still. The last early days I’ll experi­
ence here. I’ve come back to be comforted; 
I want the space to fold me back in. I need a 
constant, something I can count on.

The room is dead quiet and barely rec­
ognizable. Light streams in from the win­
dows spanning the facing wall, and sets a 
bleached glow over the room. It looks unbe­
lievably clean—like the walls have renewed 
themselves over the summer, shedding a 
mottled skin for a newer, glistening one. 
After the door slams shut behind me, 
211 seems more familiar. Stepping clos­
er to the walls, I see faint evidence of the 
room’s recent past: paint that the sum­
mer maintenance crew has failed to to­
tally erase. Here, a dripped line of red; by 
the window, a constellation of blue acrylic 
spattering that I can trace to a friend’s 
practice in the autumn of our sophomore 
year. The floors are a complex map of past 
work. The oldest colors have been scrubbed 
down into the concrete, losing all but the 
very last of their character. Other stains 
look just-spilled. I try to parse the blots of 
color for their associations—a distinctive 
purple that another friend is known to fa­
vor; that blood red, that time I cut my foot 
on a broken oil bottle and the blood went 
everywhere (and how it looked like paint). 
The first semester of my freshman 
year, I enrolled in my first painting class 
in 211. I took to the rhythm of the studio 
immediately—settling in for multi-hour 
marathons, balancing my dinner on the ra­
diator. It was a lonely semester, with few 
of the other students intending to be art 
majors. They came to class, they left. They 
didn’t seem to feel the gravity of the room 
so strongly. The next year, however, I found 
my people. We felt like pioneers, building 
our shelter in Green 211. 

snapshot



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
september 2013
19
Zach was the owner of the blue acrylic 
constellations. I remember his glass pal­
ette, always spotless, his neat rows of small 
piles of paint, his paintings—small brown 
boxes against a blue grid, over and over 
again. His eyebrows, pinched together 
over wire-rimmed glasses, his skinny arms 
raised high, his fine fingers gripping the 
brush so hard that they turned white. I don’t 
remember him ever being happy with his 
paintings; I don’t remember any of us being 
happy with our paintings. That wasn’t the 
point. They’d hum on the walls, waiting for 
us, as we went about the other business of 
our weeks. The door swung open and shut, 
open and shut.  


Now, as I stand in the middle of the 
room, any place my eyes rest is caked 
with memory. The dented gray radiators—
spending the night here in winter, we hud­
dled in front of the heaters on the cold floor, 
sleeping lightly, then rousing ourselves to 
finish the eight, twelve, twenty paintings 
due only hours later. That pink wing-back 
armchair (sagging more, now, than it used 
to) where we would sit when we had given 
up, however briefly. 


To my left, the metal carts in which 
we stashed our lives’ trappings—artistic 
and otherwise. Teacups, warm sweaters, 
scented hand soap repurposed for brush 
cleaner. All the carts are imperfect in some 
way, whether it’s a missing wheel, a bro­
ken hinge, or a faulty latch. I know well the 
harsh screech of dragging the metal beasts 
across a concrete floor. Scraps of tape used 
to claim ownership, now effaced and cryp­
tic: “racie,” suggests one, “CRAN,” shouts 
another. Thick gobs of paint can be picked 
off the surfaces like scabs. 


Looking out over the fresh glowing 
white of the movable partition walls, the 
neatly stacked (if visibly rickety) stools, it’s 
hard to believe how quickly it can all build 
up and be taken down. Effort, frustration, 
investment, paint. Can it really be as im­
portant as it feels? Felling the trees, clear­
ing the land, building the cabin—only to be 
swallowed in a forest fire at the end of each 
semester.


That original wagon party finally 
reached the frontier and split to go their 
separate ways. Some people are making 
video work now; some are designers, some 
animators. Some have no idea what they’re 
doing after graduation this May, but they 
probably won’t be painting. As it pushes 
us out gently, the school gathers in a new 
batch of pioneers, preparing itself for their 
new architecture. We won’t be completely 
erased, though, and most likely, we will be 
back. We’ve kept our keys.
Illustration by Jin Ai Yap



**Title: Yale Ventures into the Digital Humanities**
**Author: Sonja Peterson**
**Page number(s): 20-21**

20
the new journal
BRAV
NE
WORL
AVE
EW
LD
21


T
he moment I walked into the stacks 
of Yale’s Sterling Memorial Library, 
I knew it was love at first smell. The 
scent of yellowing paper reminded me of 
the library in the small town where I grew 
up. I had nearly exhausted the collections 
of that library by the time I got to high 
school, whereas I haven’t even managed to 
set foot on each of Sterling’s sixteen floors.


What to do with all these centuries 
of words, endlessly piling up on library 
shelves? Most books in Sterling are a part 
of what’s called “the great unread”—the 
profusion of books and other cultural out­
put that go ignored by humanities scholars. 
From all the novels and histories, all the 
theory and criticism published in the last 
half century, we select a relative few, cre­
ating a comprehensible, manageable canon 
out of the overwhelming possibilities.


Until now, humanities scholars have 
been devoting their lives to narrowing down 
the resources in their field. But as libraries 
like Sterling begin translating their texts 
into digital forms, scholars have begun to 
wonder whether we might be able to use 
new technologies to make use of entire li­
braries of works, rather than a narrow few. 
New computational techniques can then 
work to “read” these millions of forgotten 
texts, drawing out topics and trends. Using 
these tools, scholars in humanities and the 
sciences are partnering on projects that 
weren’t possible even ten years ago—things 
like text-mining, cultural mapping, and au­
tomated literary analysis. These new tech­
niques are part of what’s called the digital 
humanities, a discipline that is just now 
beginning to take root at Yale. While the 
movement raises exciting possibilities, it is 
also asking scholars to confront how they 
define the humanities as a discipline.


Last March, Peter Leonard became 
Yale’s first digital humanities librarian, a 
new position that signals Yale’s growing 
support for scholars exploring the inter­
section of digital technology and the hu­
manities. In his office on the second floor 
Illustration by Jin-Ai Yap



**Title: The Digital Humanities at Yale**
**Author: Unlisted**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
22
the new journal
of Sterling, thick volumes of Old Norse, 
Swedish, and Icelandic literature sit next 
to a few well-worn books on program­
ming. One shelf is dedicated to a few relics 
of technologies past: a motherboard from 
a 1980s NEXT computer sits alongside a 
Nune, a tablet-style educational device 
from the early nineties. 


Leonard’s path to the digital humani­
ties began with a relatively traditional 
humanities education: an undergraduate 
degree in art history and a graduate degree 
in literature. Like most literature students, 
he was trained to read a novel closely and 
meticulously, and to 
dissect 
paragraphs 
around a seminar ta­
ble. It was only during 
his postdoctoral work 
at UCLA in Nordic lit­
erature that Leonard 
became interested in 
quantitative approach­
es to literary questions. Today, he focuses 
on computer analyses of large collections 
of digital texts. As an example of this tech­
nique, he showed me an analysis he con­
ducted on 120 years worth of Vogue maga­
zines. The project tracked changes in the 
publication’s attention to particular topics 
from decade to decade. In the early twen­
tieth century, the editors were more inter­
ested in social interactions; more recently, 
the focus has shifted to beauty products 
and fashion.


As digital librarian, Leonard will help 
define a young and diffuse field. Since com­
ing to Yale, he has begun holding open of­
fice hours every Thursday with the Digital 
Humanities Working Group, fielding ques­
tions from students and faculty, and get­
ting a sense of what the digital humanities 
will look like at Yale. “The definition of dig­
ital humanities is probably a little different 
on every campus,” Leonard explained. In 
addition to computational research meth­
ods and digitization, the digital humani­
ties can include fields such as instructional 
technology and new media studies. How 
these areas will relate to one another and 
which ones Yale will focus on are questions 
that Leonard and other Yale researchers 
are working to answer.


There’s also another, perhaps even more 
pressing question to consider: how will the 
digital humanities define its work in re­
lation to the disciplines from which it so 
often borrows tools, such as the social sci­
ences? The technical challenges of repur­
posing the objective, mathematical tools of 
the social sciences or of representing the 
full complexity of a manuscript in a digital 
form, mask a deeper tension in reconciling 
the work of very different 
disciplines: one that focus­
es on data-driven, empiri­
cal answers, and the other 
which is more comfortable 
with ambiguity and open-
ended questions. Leonard 
asks, “how do we make use 
of techniques that might 
emerge from outside our disciplines, with­
out becoming unduly beholden to them?”


One of the earliest projects in the digi­
tal humanities was finding ways to turn 
physical collections of “humanities data”—
which can range from scholarly works to 
novels, photographic images to historical 
records—into a form that can be analyzed 
by a computer. That project of digitization 
remains at the center of the discipline.


The work of women’s, gender, and sex­
uality studies professor Laura Wexler, a 
photographic historian, falls into this cat­
egory. She oversees a collaborative digital 
humanities project spearheaded by gradu­
ate students Lauren Tilton and Taylor Ar­
nold, who come, respectively, from the 
fields of American Studies and statistics. 
The team is mapping and analyzing over 
160,000 photos taken by photographers 
hired by the federal Farm Security Admin­
istration’s Office of War and Information 
from 1935 to 1945, creating an online da­
tabase that is searchable and accessible to 
a range of audiences from middle schoolers 
“A book communicates 
meaning to us, but it 
doesn’t communicate 
meaning to a machine.”


--- Page 23 ---

september 2013
23
to schoolteachers to academics.


A version of Photogrammer, the tool 
they’ve created, is now available online in 
beta. You can easily follow a particular pho­
tographer’s walk around Chicago, search 
for photos from your home county, or use 
the caption search to find every image con­
taining a lumberjack. A few decades ago, 
the only way to look at these photos would 
be to rifle though hundreds of file cabinets 
in a dank basement in Washington.


Wexler, Tilton, and Arnold are still de­
termining what kinds of questions they 
might answer with their newly collected 
data. Beyond correlating various attributes 
of the photos and the geographical loca­
tion where they were taken, they’re also 
interested in harnessing the potential of 
crowdsourcing. “It’s designed to be a public 
platform,” Wexler explained. Users could 
participate by tagging photos or uploading 
current images of the same locations to see 
what’s changed.


“We were able to take this big messy 
data set and put it into a form that’s nim­
ble,” said Wexler. Humanities data tends to 
be disorganized, posing interesting techni­
cal challenges for programmers. The very 
idea of “data” in the humanities has been 
challenged by some scholars, such as Jo­
anna Drucker, a professor of information 
studies at UCLA, who argues that rather 
than thinking of data as a direct represen­
tation of reality—in the sense of its Latin 
root, which means “what is given”—we 
should think of it as something that is col­
lected and constructed. Digital data offers 
only a partial representation of an object; 
the object has to be broken down into a set 
of encoded attributes before it can appear 
on your screen. Deciding how to divide an 
object like a painting into a few lines of 
code is the biggest challenge in any digiti­
zation project.


“A book communicates meaning to us, 
but it doesn’t communicate meaning to a 
machine,” said Carol Chiodo, a Dante schol­
ar and member of the Digital Humanities 
Working Group. “Anyone who’s tried to 
extract text from a PDF knows that.” She 
pointed to the Text Encoding Initiative 
(TEI) as a set of guidelines for how to for­
mat texts so that computers can under­
stand them. These guidelines determine 
how to mark important features such as 
paragraph, section, and chapter breaks.  
If you’ve ever been forced by a website 
to prove you’re a human by transcribing 
a nearly unreadable word, you may have 
contributed to cleaning up some messy hu­
manities data yourself. These “CAPTCHA” 
(“Completely Automated Public Turing test 
to tell Computers and Humans Apart”) chal­
lenges are used by websites to ensure that 
someone filling data into a form isn’t actu­
ally an automated program attempting to 
hack the system. A decoding system called 
reCAPTCHA manipulates this tool for re­
search by taking images from old manu­
scripts in the process of being digitized and 
using them as challenges. Algorithms iden­
tify which words in a manuscript are most 
likely to have been wrongly transcribed, 
and these are outsourced to an army of un­
witting Internet users. reCAPTCHA’s first 
project was cleaning up digitizations of the 
New York Times, but it’s now moving on to 
work on the millions of books scanned by 
Google. 


Technical challenges like these are 
part of what draws computer scientists to 
get involved with the digital humanities. 
“Humanists aren’t inhibited by knowing 
what’s difficult to accomplish with com­
putational techniques, so that can lead us 
to interesting new challenges,” said Holly 
Rushmeier, chair of Yale’s computer sci­
ence department. Rushmeier’s work often 
involves visual data mining: transforming 
objects or images into digital data that can 
be manipulated and analyzed. Before com­
ing to Yale, she worked on several cultural 
heritage projects at IBM. One involved 
creating a digital model of Michelangelo’s 
Pietà. The statue was partially destroyed 
by Michelangelo himself, and another 
sculptor attempted to repair it. An art his­
torian who was trying to understand what 


--- Page 24 ---

24
drove Michelangelo to damage his own 
work wanted to see how the statue looked 
with the repaired pieces removed. The 
techniques developed in the course of the 
project weren’t just of future use to schol­
ars, but also to the development of com­
mercial 3D imaging products.  “With this 
type of work, you have both the immediate 
benefit for the scholar, and all these spin-
off benefits,” said Rushmeier. 


But what about the “great unread”? Pe­
ter Leonard is helping some Swedish schol­
ars use a program that can identify topics 
in a huge collection of novels. He showed 
me a page of results. Each topic is displayed 
as a cluster of words, their relative sizes 
depending on their importance in the text, 
with related passages on the side. 


The topics aren’t suggested by the re­
searcher, but are drawn out of the text by 
the program itself. “The wonderful and 
terrible thing about it is that it only shows 
you what it thinks is there,” Leonard said. 
There are limitations, of course—a com­
puter can’t read 1984 and come out with a 
topic called “fascism” if it’s never directly 
mentioned—but topic modeling can expose 
unexpected connections. 


Techniques like topic modeling can 
have larger implications for academic 
fields, and could potentially alter the can­
on itself. Leonard gave me the example 
of research done on nineteenth-century 
Swedish novels. When studying these nov­
els, scholars had usually focused on the 
works of Ibsen and Strindberg, identifying 
the authors as primarily responsible in the 
drive to replace Romanticism with real­
ism during that period, writing about the 
economic rights of women and life in bour­
geois households. 


In the seventies, though, painstaking 
archival research showed that there was 
also a large cohort of female writers who 
contributed to this movement, examining 
topics that had previously been ascribed 
solely to men. Those researchers were us­
ing traditional techniques—reading as 
many books in the archive as possible. 
Forty years later, digital humanities schol­
ars wanted to see if they could find similar 
results using topic modeling. They found 
that the same topics that turned up in Ib­
sen and Strindberg were also in the works 
of female writers.


“In that case, we had a cheat sheet to 
check our results against,” said Leonard. 
But it was proof that the technique could 
identify previously overlooked pockets of 
important scholarly work.


While nearly every faculty member I 
spoke to was excited about the potential of 
the digital humanities to analyze large vol­
umes of humanities data, they all acknowl­
edged certain limitations. The first prob­
lem is assembling a truly comprehensive 
collection of humanities data in the first 
place, when not all of it is accessible.


“There’s a selection process at every 
stage,” Leonard explained. “First, not every 
writer gets their book published. Then, not 
every book gets purchased. Over the next 
hundred years, the library makes decisions 
about whether we should keep these books. 
“Now the question is: which books do we 
want to send to Google?” Because informa­
tion is lost at each step, scholars need to 
qualify their conclusions to acknowledge 
the way these missing pieces could bias 
their results.


Of course, there are humanities ques­
tions that this sort of approach simply can’t 
answer. For more contextualized and nu­
anced readings of particular texts, we need 
humans, not machines. “No one’s trying to 
say, Oh, it’s time to become a big data scien­
tist and forget humanities training,” Leon­
ard said. “But we can keep that incredible 
value as we use new techniques to engage 
with works that might have fallen outside 
the canon.”


Franco Moretti, a digital humanities 
pioneer and founder of the Stanford Lit­
erature Lab, snuck a jab at Yale into his 
well-known, now decade-old essay, “The 



**Title: Slaughterhouse of Literature**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
september 2013
25
Slaughterhouse of Literature,” calling close 
reading a “secularized theology…that has 
radiated from the cheerful town of New 
Haven over the whole field of literary stud­
ies.”

Things have changed since Moretti 
wrote that essay, but Yale’s English and 
Literature departments are still known for 
emphasis on close reading, and the Univer­
sity has been reluctant to embrace the “dis­
tant reading” aspects of digital humanities 
research. “We have a deep commitment to 
close reading, and that is something that 
computers have not been good at doing 
yet: that very human act of reading, under­
standing, digesting, and making an argu­
ment,” said English professor Amy Hunger­
ford, whose work in American literature 
has grown to encompass studies of chang­
ing media forms.

For Hungerford, the 
development of digital 
humanities at Yale, par­
ticularly in her depart­
ment, is a “chicken-and-
egg problem.” In order to 
attract digital humani­
ties scholars, Yale needs 
to have the community, 
resources, and senior fac­
ulty that support them. 
But in order to invest in those resources, 
someone needs to lobby the administration 
and raise awareness about the need for 
Yale to make those investments. 

Trip Kirkpatrick, a member of the Digi­
tal Humanities Working Group and a senior 
instructional technologist for Yale, agreed 
that the growth of the digital humanities 
at Yale hasn’t been as rapid as it has been 
at some peer institutions. “Yale is in many 
ways a structurally conservative institu­
tion,” said Kirkpatrick. “It’s been around for 
over three hundred years and expects to be 
around permanently, so it looks at things 
in terms of big time frames.”

Meanwhile, the digital world moves 
fast. Kirkpatrick pointed out that Wikipe­
dia, a now indispensible resource for most 
college students, was only invented in 
2001. The digital humanities is evolving at 
a similarly rapid pace, in a way that might 
be difficult for Yale to deal with under its 
current system. “What Yale needs to be 
working on is not necessarily making in­
dividual changes, but figuring out ways to 
adapt to change differently,” Kirkpatrick 
said. “We’re great on stability, not so much 
on agility.”

Kirkpatrick still hopes that digital hu­
manities can be worked into the curricu­
lum. He imagines an English department 
in which professors might list macroanal­
ysis as one of many scholarly interests—
right alongside, say, Anglo-Saxon poetry or 
Marxism—and a course on computational 
stylistics might be offered as an elective 
for undergrads.

There are already some scholars in­
corporating digital tech­
niques and social science 
tools into their work, 
Kirkpatrick pointed out; 
they simply don’t publish 
in online journals devot­
ed to digital humanities 
or consider it central to 
their research. There is 
a pitfall: having scholars 
use digital techniques 
without maintaining digital humanities’ 
separate identity makes it difficult to eas­
ily identify progress. “If digital text analy­
sis falls alone in a forest, does anybody hear 
it?” Kirkpatrick asked. He believes that 
digital humanities will only be thought 
of as a self-standing field if scholars who 
clearly identify their work as digital hu­
manities become successful.

I asked Leonard what separates the so­
cial sciences from the humanities if both 
begin to use the same tools. For him, what 
differentiates the disciplines isn’t so much 
methodology as the sort of questions they 
want to ask, but he acknowledged that the 
relationship can be “uneasy.”

“People will keep doing close readings 
forever,” Leonard said. “It’s just that some


**Title:  Untitled**
**Page number(s): 25-26**

people are interested in supporting close 
readings with quantitative and algorith­
mic analysis of humanities data.”

Regardless of how the work is labeled, 
the new generation of scholars is clearly 
making a turn toward a more technologi­
cal approach. Erin Maher, a senior at Yale, 
is a perfect example: she began her under­
graduate years in the humanities before 
switching computer science, and finally 
majoring in women’s, gender and sexuality 
Studies. “I thought, well, now I have to drop 
my interest in technology,” Maher said. But 
classes like Wexler’s that incorporate new 
media studies have allowed her to find an 
intersection between her two interests.

Maher’s senior project, under Wexler’s 
guidance, will study communities devel­
oped on the microblogging website Tumblr. 
In the past, Maher told me, anthropologists 
studying communities like Tumblr have 
tended to be “disconnected.” “They publish 
their work in places that the people they’re 
writing about will never have access to,” 
she explained.

Maher also works as a programmer 
for Yale’s Information Technology Ser­
vices, helping develop educational tools 
such as Pnut, which will allow students to 
give lecturers feedback in real time. She’s 
hoping that in the future she will use her 
programming skills to help build more ac­
cessible scholarly publishing platforms on­
line, building ladders in and out of the ivory 
tower.

It’s this ethos that particularly drives 
Chiodo in her work on the history of Dante 
scholarship. “We’ve got seven hundred-plus 
years of commentaries and scholarship, of 
blood, sweat, tears and tons of words ex­
pended on this author. I’m finding that digi­
tal tools are allowing me to say new things, 
to see the work in a new way, and that’s true 
of my colleagues as well,” Chiodo said. “That 
in and of itself offers huge possibility.” 

Riding the elevator up through the 
stacks, I’m now hyper-aware of the “great 
unread” around me. Tracking down a par­
ticular volume of Chaucer, I feel myself 
taking part in a long tradition of skimming 
across the top of a vast reservoir of cultur­
al output. While exploring the digital hu­
manities, I’ve realized that in my past three 
years as an English major I’ve never been 
forced to truly examine the tools I’m using. 
While I may go on close reading Chaucer’s 
stanzas, I’ll do so with a better sense of oth­
er technologies of knowledge, other ways 
of seeing, that—for the moment—exist out­
side of my reach.



**Title: Friends Indeed**
**Author: Julia Schwarz**
**Page number(s): 27**

27
No one cries over spilt milk at the Friends 
Center for Children. The Tupperware has 
tops there. Everyone always remains calm.

A small boy reaches for the Puffins ce­
real and frozen blueberries sitting in the 
center of a low table. He pours them into a 
neon yellow bowl, and turns to three other 
boys at the table. They watch their peers 
stack blocks, curl up with books, and fiddle 
with puzzle pieces. Then one boy reaches 
for the Lazy Susan and gives it a whirl. Con­
tainers of milk and raisins are upended. 
Fluorescent cutlery goes flying.

What looks to be a playtime mess is 
part of an attempt to clean up early child­
hood education in New Haven. The Friends 
Center for Children, a progressive Quaker 
pre-school in Fair Haven, began with four 
children in a basement and today edu­
cates more than seventy toddlers and in­
fants in a new state-of-the-art facility. The 
9,245-square-foot building was completed 
just this year, but is already well on its way 
to serving the community.

When the center first opened in 2007, 
local families with young children were 
severely underserved. New Haven Mayor 
John DeStefano had formed a group of 
early childhood educators, administra­
tors, and community leaders to develop 
an education plan for the city’s youngest 
children. With over a third of children un­
der the age of five living below the poverty 
line, low-income families were the focus of 
their discussion. When the Friends Center 
announced its decision to expand to a K-8 
school, representatives from the city urged 
a different direction. According to board 
member Greg Moschetti, many approached 
the board with the same plea: “Please, 
please take care of our babies.”

In 2009, they embarked on a campaign 
to build a new home for the center. The 
school needed a space that could allow for 
growth but still maintain the sense of com­
munity and intimacy that had led families 
to line up on their waiting list. The Quaker 
congregation donated a plot of land behind 
its building to form what would become 
the independently-run Friends Center for 
Children. After a three-year wait, Connect­
icut approved a $1,750,000 bond to fund 
the center’s construction in June of last 
year. Work progressed quickly over the 
spring and summer; the children watched 
backhoes and frontloaders move in and out 
of their backyard. 

On the September morning that I arrive 
at the center, all is quiet, the cacophony 
of construction now absent. An unassum­
ing wood and glass façade peeks out from 
behind the dark brown, two-story Quaker 
meeting house. The obtuse angles and met­
al paneling of its roof distinguish it from 
the quaint twentieth-century mill houses 
on the street. The building, I learn later, 

snapshot



**Title: The New Friends Center**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
28
the new journal
was built to gold-level LEED certification, 
with walls made from local cedar wood, a 
geothermal heating system, and a rooftop 
garden.


Today is the new building’s grand open­
ing. In the parking lot between the school 
and East Grand Street, rows of chairs face 
a big red and yellow ribbon strung across 
the front of the center. It is still early, and 
Greg Moschetti arrives before the crowd. 
Though Moschetti is a member of the 
founding board, he doesn’t think of him­
self that way. “I would rather think of the 
original small band of Quakers in the lower 
level of the meeting house as conveners,” 
he says. “We convened a conversation that 
will continue for years and years to come, 
as the Friends Center leads the way in ear­
ly-childhood education.”


That conversation is mainly concerned 
with keeping high-quality childcare af­
fordable. Around two-thirds of the center’s 
students live in households earning less 
than the state’s median income of $54,000; 
its average annual tuition is $7706 a year. 
Early childhood education is expensive: 
the hours are long in order to accommo­
date the schedules of working parents, 
and the state mandates high caregiver-
to-child ratios. While Head Start and New 
Haven’s magnet school pre-K programs 
offer a free alternative for students from 
low-income families, spots are limited. At 
the Friends Center, parent volunteers and 
a great deal of administrative legwork al­
lows the school to calculate tuition on a 
sliding scale. The center covers the differ­
ence between tuition money and the oper­
ating costs using what Schiavone says is a 
“jigsaw puzzle of public funds, foundation 
grants, and private donors.”


As a crowd gathers in the parking lot, I 
meet Michael Anderson, an employee at the 
Peabody Museum and another founder of 
the Friends Center. He tells me that back 
when the childcare program was in the plan­
ning stage, he suggested a co-op program, 
which the other founders embraced. Every 
parent volunteers for an hour and a half 
each week, with some adjustments based 
on the number of children parents enrolled. 
Some help out in the classroom, while oth­
ers do laundry on weekends. Arie Mobley, 
a postdoctoral candidate at a neurosurgery 
lab, spends her volunteer hours serving on 
the board. Her husband, a carpenter, uses 
his skills to build furniture for the center.


In some small way, each of these par­
ents  is addressing a national call to nar­
rowing the achievement gap between 
kids from low- and high-income families. 
Across the country, studies by universi­
ties, private foundations, and NGOs point 
to early childhood as a crucial period in a 
child’s development. The Center’s efforts 
are part of a national conversation. In his 
2013 State of the Union address, President 
Barack Obama said, “In states that made 
it a priority to educate our youngest chil­
dren...students grow up more likely to read 
and do math at grade level, graduate high 
school, hold a job, form more stable fami­
lies of their own. We know this works. So 
let’s do what works and make sure none of 
our children start the race of life already 
behind.”


Moschetti envisions Quaker schools 
playing an important part in this process. 
As one of the four Quaker members on the 
school’s fourteen-person board, Moschetti 
was instrumental in shaping the school’s 
mission in its early days. He emphasizes 
that Quaker values will continue to shape 
the school, excitedly pointing out that 
there are already measures in place to re­
mind students and teachers at the Friends 
Center of their roots. Each of the classroom 
doors is labeled with a different Quaker 
value: Peace, Community, Equality, Truth, 
and Simplicity.


Many share his optimism. At the ribbon 
cutting, graduates of the original basement 
preschool stream in, as do parents, may­
oral candidates, and neighbors. Passing by 
a white press tent, they settle into seats 
set up in front of the Friends Center door. 
A large easel with lined white paper dis­
plays the agenda in large, curly handwrit­
ing. Brightly-colored buckets filled with 
scissors sit at the end of each row of chairs. 
Then a line of preschoolers, holding hands, 
emerges from the playground gate. The 
crowd quiets as they watch the children 
find their seats—right in front.

A crowd gathers to celebrate the new 9,245 square foot building. The pre-school originally 
opened in the basement of the Quaker Meeting House.
Photos by Ian Christmann


**Title: Re-Growing Oak Street**
**Author: A. Grace Steig**
**Page number(s): 30**

Feature
Fifty years later, will New Haven finally get 
urban development right?
Re-Growing 
Oak Street
by A. Grace Steig



**Title: Church Street Redefined**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
september 2013
31
g  
J
ust six blocks south of the New Haven 
Green, the strongest signs of life are the 
distant roar of traffic on the Route 34 
Connector and the less-regular stream of 
cars here on Church Street South. A school­
bus drops off a girl carrying a backpack 
with a cartoon design whose mother waits 
to walk her home. I watch two boys behind 
them bike back and forth on the sidewalk. 
They are the only pedestrians on this bou­
levard. Though I’ve been told that the long 
beige buildings to my left hold three hun­
dred residences, the nearly-empty streets 
of the neighborhood make that hard to be­
lieve.

“CHURCH STREET REDEFINED: A VI­
TAL MAIN STREET FOR NEW HAVEN’S 
HILL-TO-DOWNTOWN 
DISTRICT.” 
The 
black letters crown the city development 
plans that were unveiled at a public meet­
ing at Hill Central School on September 24. 
The plans are part of an effort by city offi­
cials to dramatically re-envision the future 
of this area between Union Station, Yale 
School of Medicine, and downtown. With­
in a decade, the street I am walking along 
could be thronged with residents of differ­
ent ages, incomes, and backgrounds living 
in new four-to-six-story homes. They could 
take long walks through a neighborhood 
bordered by an array of shops and restau­
rants.

If they succeed at redefining Church 
Street, the project will be the second ma­
jor identity shift for the area in the past 
sixty years. What officials now sterilely 
label as the “Hill-to-Downtown District” 
once formed part of the vibrant Oak Street 
neighborhood. In 1959, a diverse but poor 
community of immigrants lived in the 
area. It was culturally rich, but physically 
poor, and officials fixated on the limited 
infrastructure. Instead of improving living 
conditions, the government decided to de­
molish the neighborhood altogether. Three 
thousand people were displaced. Subsi­
dized highways and mass production were 
making the automobile a ubiquitous pres­
ence in American culture, and the project 
aimed to clear the way for a freeway—the 
Route 34 Connector—to send traffic from 
Interstate 95 smoothly into downtown 
New Haven. City planners envisioned a city 
in which commerce would flow, unimped­
ed by the Oak Street neighborhood. Mayor 
Richard C. Lee was certain that New Haven 
would become “a slumless city—the first in 
the nation.”

But rather than supporting an urban 
core, the highway accelerated a mass exo­
dus to the suburbs. It served commuters, 
not the dwindling surrounding population. 
By the time political momentum for Lee’s 
mid-century urban renewal project ran out, 
plans for a longer highway were scrapped—
the connector now splits at the hulking Air 
Rights Garage into the two forks of Legion 
Avenue—and the promises of a renewed 
city were unfulfilled. With the Oak Street 
neighborhood permanently razed, the con­
nector became infamous for dividing the 
city in two—separating the Hill neighbor­
hood to the south from downtown New 
Haven. Today, the several-block trek from 
the Hill to the Green, or from Yale School of 
Medicine to the heart of campus, is a knot 
of over- and underpasses. Blocks are long, 
and loud with the roar of speeding cars.

New initiatives are aimed at reener­
gizing the urban wasteland created by the 
connector. In 2007, the city was awarded 
a federal Transportation Investment Gen­
erating Economic Recovery (TIGER) grant 
to convert the eastern section of Route 
34, which runs from Park Street to Union 
Avenue, into two “urban boulevards”—with 
traffic lights, narrower lanes, and a lower 
speed limit—alongside new developments. 
The ambitious project, called Downtown 
Crossing, will eventually lower the Col­
lege Street overpass to street level. Phase 
I of construction will replace a segment of 
highway at 100 College Street with a new 
pharmaceutical skyscraper. Ground was 
first broken in June.

The Downtown Crossing project will 
pave the way for a larger—and, ideally, a 
more coherent—urban plan. To achieve


--- Page 32 ---

32
the new journal
this, as the Downtown Crossing project 
advances, the city is simultaneously rede­
signing the area lying south of the Connec­
tor, between Union Station and the medi­
cal school. Called “Hill-to-Downtown,” the 
expansive new project includes two large 
residential-and-retail developments, the 
first across the street from Union Station 
and the second on a more upscale site in 
the former Coliseum property just north 
of Route 34. The first development sits 
on Church Street, which in the new plan 
forms the centerpiece of the district, with 
more 
stores, 
housing, 
and greenspace. The dis­
trict will host new office 
and lab buildings, most 
of them serving the bio­
medical 
industry 
that 
currently dominates the 
area around the medical 
school on the district’s 
western side. Residents 
and officials hope that 
the changes brought by this pair of major 
projects will reap social and economic ben­
efits for the neighborhood, transforming 
an area still feeling the effects of the six­
ties-era urban renewal into a community.

“You could classify Oak Street back 
then as a slum,” acknowledged Robert Sil­
verman in a 2004 interview, “but it was a 
thriving slum. People were living in the 
houses, business was in the stores, and 
business was being done.

Silverman lived in the Oak Street 
neighborhood until it was razed. Along 
with several other former residents, he 
lent his voice to a historical project un­
dertaken through the Manuscripts and 
Archives department of Yale’s Sterling Me­
morial Library in the early 2000s. The New 
Haven Oral History Project compiled voice 
interviews of these New Havenites into an 
exhibit called “Life in the Model City,” a ref­
erence to the Johnson administration’s na­
tional Model Cities project, which had been 
inspired by Lee’s program for New Haven. 
Silverman remembers urban renewal with 
bitterness; it displaced Jewish  organiza­
tions he had belonged to, and erased many 
other features of a previously flourishing 
community.

Today, few homes remain in the area 
where Oak Street disappeared, and resi­
dents nearby miss these hallmarks of a 
lively neighborhood. “There’s a lot of nos­
talgia for what used to be,” says Chris Soto, 
who works for the mayor’s office’s Livable 
City Initiative.

There is good reason to look back with 
longing. Since the remov­
al of the so-called slum, 
the 
Hill-to-Downtown 
area has felt lifeless and 
bleak. On Church Street, 
vast swaths of surface-
level parking surround 
squat office and medi­
cal buildings. Iron fences 
and security cameras re­
mind passersby that they 
are not welcome.

Crossing the street on a sunny Tuesday, 
I start to reconsider. Despite the city’s mis­
takes, some features of a community have 
clearly taken root. The beige buildings of 
the government-subsidized Church Street 
South housing complex seem lived-in. Res­
idents stroll around and lounge beneath 
the trees of a small designated greenspace. 
Groups of people gather on the balconies or 
sidewalks, chatting in Spanish and English. 
A young man stands at the corner with a 
skateboard and a spaniel. This atmosphere 
gives me hope that I had misinterpret­
ed the foreboding atmosphere. Perhaps 
Church Street South has retained the com­
munal atmosphere that I thought had been 
lost decades ago. A family jokes and laughs 
together in front of their apartment door. 
I approach the group and ask them what it 
is like to live there. Two of them introduce 
themselves as Shanequa and Tangie, and, 
asking not to be identified by their last 
names, tell me: 

Within a decade, the 
street I am walking along 
could be thronged with 
residents of different 
ages, incomes, and 
backgrounds.


--- Page 33 ---

33
“Shitty,” Shanequa says, then adds, 
pausing between each word, “Trashy. 
Messed-up. Terrible.” 
At each word, the others nod. “Every­
thing’s falling apart,” Shanequa says. Prob­
lems abound, and the street feels unsafe 
for the families who live there. “The area 
point-blank is bad, with drug dealers, and 
our kids having to see it all.” 

To make Church Street South a better 
home, developers would “have to do a lot of 
rearrangement of the people. They’d need 
to rebuild it, step up security, make it safer 
for kids,” she adds.

Developers have made an attempt to 
respond to residents’ concerns. Represen­
tatives from the mayor’s office, as well as 
from Goody Clancy, the architecture firm 
hired by the city to lead the project, held 
a series of public meetings at Hill Central 
School. After listening to feedback from 
New Havenites, particularly residents 
of Hill neighborhood and Church Street 
South, the firm spent three months nar­
rowing the ideas into a single drafted plan, 
unveiled on September 24.

At the meeting, I listened as David 
Spillane, Goody Clancy’s director of plan­
ning and urban design, explained the plan 
behind that promising title: CHURCH 
STREET REDEFINED. He envisions a thriv­
ing district centered around Church Street 
as its main commercial and residential 
street.

At previous meetings, Church Street 
South residents had advocated for grocery 
stores, pharmacies, and other shops that 
would serve their daily needs. Planners for 
Goody Clancy and the city have acknowl­
edged these requests, but because the 
properties are privately owned, they are 
vague about which businesses will eventu­
ally move in there. “They potentially serve 
residents, they potentially serve commut-

What was once the Oak Street neighborhood is now a dense tangle of overpasses, surface-level 
parking, and office buildings.



**Title: The New Haven Plan**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 34-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
City officials hope that the combined Hill-to-Downtown and Downtown Crossings plans will revitalize the area.


Renowned urban designer Julie Campoli emphasizes that urban vibrancy begins with density—in order to make a city street lively, a large number of people must live in a relatively small area. But a large population alone will not create community. In New Haven, the Church Street South planners have their own ideas about what will make this happen: they hope to build mixed-income, mixed-age housing where residents feel safe. Current residences there would be torn down to make way for these developments.

Campoli wants to upend the idea that affordable housing has to be unpleasant. At an October 1 talk at the New Haven Hall of Records, she challenged participants’ preconceptions. She showed the audience vibrant housing developments at various communities throughout the country and gave them handheld clickers to vote on whether the houses were market-rate or affordable. The homes blended in attractively with their cityscapes, and many had small gardens for residents to tend. The audience members frequently guessed incorrectly.

Talking to me outside the residential complex on Church Street, Tangie said that she thought the current buildings look “like jail”; instead, she would like to live somewhere that people admire, where “when you walk you go, ‘Damn.’” Shanequa adds, “I don’t feel that just because we can’t afford it, we should have to live like that.”

The new plan makes room for between six hundred and 750 units, but just twenty percent are affordable. This would halve the current number of federally-subsidized units to 150. Though they are anxious for change, this and any additional plans to replace these units elsewhere leave some residents wondering where they will fit into the project. “They need to hurry up and do it!” says Shanequa. “Hurry up and kick you out,” quips one of her friends.


Walking through the Hill-to-Downtown district is challenging. From Church Street South, I turn onto Lafayette Street and quickly find myself thwarted. This street was a prominent place for business and housing in the old Oak Street neighborhood. Now the road, which abuts St. Basil the Great Greek Orthodox Church and the Tower Hill/Tower East assisted living facilities, ends in a fenced parking lot and a walking path between the buildings of Church Street South. Two men on their balcony stare. The paths do not feel like public space, and I backtrack.

For the casual walker, there is no clear or intuitive route to Union Station. I start again down Church Street South, continuing along its length until I am able to turn at a sharp angle. From here, it is a nerve-wracking jay-walk across a large intersection before I am headed north on Union Street toward the station.


A few days later, I am poring over the recently unveiled Hill-to-Downtown plan alongside Anstress Farwell, president of the New Haven Urban Design League. I notice that, as part of the development, Lafayette Street will be rerouted and extended. But will it be walkable? 
“There are some good things about the plan,” Farwell says, mainly “the basic objectives to make very direct and intuitive connections to downtown.” Direct routes tend to improve “walkability,” a buzzword among urban designers; it is often used in tandem with the phrase Transit Oriented Development (TOD), which prioritizes placing a mix of housing and retail within easy walking distance of transit.

The new urban boulevard is designed to correct the problems caused by building a highway in the middle of a city. Kelly Murphy, New Haven’s director of economic development, remarks, “A highway doesn’t really generate jobs or income or create vitality, but we think that what we’re doing to remove the highway will.” An urban street, rather than serving as a thruway for suburban commuters, should serve as a place to walk, congregate, browse, shop—in short, a place that can be lived in.

Unlike the suburban population that was to be served by Connector in the fifties and sixties, a growing number of people today either prefer not to drive or cannot afford cars. According to the 2008 American Community Survey census, close to half of commuters in New Haven reached work without solitary driving—fourteen percent used public transit, thirteen percent walked, eleven percent carpooled, and two percent biked. Fewer young people in the U.S. own cars, and they are increasingly living in cities. 2011 marked the first time in a century that cities grew at a faster rate than their surrounding suburbs. With increased migration to city centers rather than suburbs, the same forces that rendered Route 34 obsolete should prompt the design of cities less reliant on cars.

These shifts emphasize the importance of making New Haven a place where people can explore the city by foot—and the ways in which the current proposal falls short. Back in the Urban Design League office, I find myself nodding as Anstress Farwell describes some necessary improvements.
 “For instance,” she says, pointing to a proposed park near Church Street South, “Everything’s falling apart. The area point-blank is bad, with drug dealers, and our kids having to see it all.” 


drawn in a line with Union Station, “you wouldn’t know to go around the park to downtown.” When pedestrians are frustrated, they often choose not to walk at all. This problem extends to the rest of the plans for the neighborhood. “There still isn’t an intuitive way to know that you can go downtown or to the med school.”

The city is set up in such a way that people are expected to drive to the station, but residents are questioning this layout. In the community meeting, a young man raises his hand: “Is there any talk about changing mass transit included in this plan?”

Erik Johnson dodges the question: 
“That’s a separate conversation.”

Urban designers and residents disagree. People taking the train would not need to park near Union Station if buses ran from their homes to the station. At the moment, Goody Clancy has drawn up an additional garage to supplement the massive one already abutting Union Station. Bus routes will not be added, however, if parking additions are a central component of the plan. By trying to solve the problem of how cars fit into place, they ignore the way that people would like to travel from one place to another.

I repeat the question of transit to Kelly Murphy, administrator of the mayor’s office’s economic development department. She evades: “Generally, the service comes after the need.”

Residents already feel that need. Some urban planning advocates who have long been at work designing a transit- and person-centric New Haven object to the indefinitely long delay in taking action. “There’s really a strong community of people that understand this and have been very active for years talking about this,” Farwell argues. “The city has adopted the language but not the principles.”

As I walk west and turn up College Street, I watch as bicyclists weave around construction at a nearby bridge over Route 34 and lean on the curbs while waiting for the slow Frontage Road traffic light to change. Depending on decisions made in the planning process, the bicyclists’ route after development could become much more pleasant—or remain tedious. In place of a highway, the two new “urban boulevards” are meant to create easier routes for New Haven’s already-thriving bicycling community. After Route 34 is dissolved and the section of College Street rebuilt, bike lanes will be added.

Elm City Cycling, a bicycling advocacy group, was an early and vocal supporter of the Downtown Crossing project even as others raised concerns. But it publicly withdrew its support in August 2012. The city had dismissed some proposals for two-lane or four-lane city streets in favor of eight lanes of traffic. The group’s public statement explains that they grew disenchanted with the project. What had begun as a “bold vision” had become a “road-widening project that repeats the mistakes of the past.”

“There was really a failure to bring it up to today’s desired standards,” Elm City Cycling’s spokesperson, Mark Abraham, tells me. “I think the standards have to do with equitable access to all ages, all abilities, and making it more walkable, more bikable. You’re not going to see children riding on these roads alone.”

Looking back from the roadwork toward the Hill-to-Downtown area, where construction has yet to begin, I still have questions. Despite the many meetings and published material, the plans for the district remain more tenuous than their bold headings suggest. When Mayor John DeStefano, Jr., leaves office at the end of the year, many appointed city officials may also be on their way out. The execution of any plan will inevitably rely on the choices of the new administration, and the vision set out for Hill-to-Downtown could change drastically.

City planners are hurrying to set the current plan in stone before the mayor’s


**Title: Church Street South Redevelopment**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
september 2013
37
term ends. At the September 24 meeting, 
Erik Johnson invited interested residents 
to be part of a steering committee that will 
champion the presented Church Street 
plan. “When Kelly [Murphy] and I aren’t 
here and other people aren’t around, we 
want to make sure that there is a commu­
nity voice.” The plan will go before the city 
planning commission on November 20. “We 
want you to come with us to talk about our 
plan,” Johnson says to the assembled com­
munity members. “After we go to the plan­
ning commission, we are going to take this 
to the Board of Aldermen in December…
We would like you to be there.”


Many aspects of the Hill to Down­
town plan could change over the fifteen to 
twenty years it will take for the Downtown 
Crossing project to be completed. But just 
by agreeing to remove Route 34, the city 
has shown that it believes that New Haven 
can be a better and more livable city. I re­
call Shanequa’s words: “They need to hurry 
up and do it.”


Past the treacherous highway over­
pass, I thread east through the park behind 
the Knights of Columbus tower, to the site 
where the New Haven Coliseum sports are­
na  stood from 1972 until the city imploded 
it in 2007. The Knights of Columbus tower 
casts a shadow over the sweeping parking 
lot. In the future, this lot could be entirely 
transformed as part of the Hill-to-Down­
town projects: a developer hired by the city 
submitted a design featuring a town square 
with apartments, restaurants, and top-of-
the-line wine shops; later plans include a 
luxury hotel and a corporate office tower. 
The estimated cost of the project is $250-
$350 million.


After the meeting, Chris Soto says of 
the plan, “In their scheme, you see a ho­
tel. You’re also seeing a lot more activated 
streetscape. The folks on the street aren’t 
just walking by businesses, it’s more stop­
ping and looking and whatnot.”


Many details of the Coliseum develop­
ment would be out of place in a develop­
ment at Church Street South, where resi­
dents are hoping for grocery stores. But it 
evokes a style of city life that the designers 
think Hill-to-Downtown district could as­
pire to: a place where people can live, work, 
and play. A revitalized Church Street, if 
executed well, could be just as lively as 
the architectural designs. People could be 
excited to gather and to walk down in the 
new Main Street. Instead of living among 
the ghosts of a once-vibrant neighborhood, 
residents could find a place to call home.
Photos by A. Grace Steig
Map provided by the city of New Haven


**Title: The Week in Review**
**Author: Eric Boodman**
**Page number(s): 38**

38
the new journal
endnote
The Week in Review
by Eric Boodman
The Fiscal Crisis Affects the Presidential 
Breakfast
President Barack Obama hasn’t tasted cof­
fee in two weeks. Nor has he put butter on 
his toast, or poured fresh milk on his ce­
real. Instead, he has been drinking a coffee 
substitute made from boiled chicory root, 
spreading margarine on his stale bread 
crusts, and pouring reconstituted milk 
onto his cornflakes. Given the government 
shutdown, the Department of Presiden­
tial Breakfasts has had to drastically scale 
back its menus. Read more
American Refugees Head to Canada
Americans are flocking to the Canadian 
border to escape what they see as a looming 
civil war caused by the government shut­
down. Canadian Prime Minister Stephen 
Harper has granted Americans temporary 
refugee status, as well as provisional ac­
cess to the Canadian socialized medical 
system. “We are happy to be able to provide 
relief to our southern neighbors,” Harper 
said at a press conference. He pleaded with 
those Americans currently camped out at 
the border to be patient while their appli­
cations are processed. Read more
Michelle Obama Announces Foraging 
Campaign
On Wednesday, Michelle Obama announced 
a program designed to teach the children of 
furloughed government employees how to 
forage for edible plants. At a White House 
press conference, she displayed baskets of 
acorns, a handful of purslane, and bushels 
of chickweed, as well as the camouflage 
rain boots that allow her to venture into 
muddier spots. “Whether you are look­
ing on the grounds of the White House, in 
your local park, or in your own backyard, 
you can bring home a free, nutritious meal 
for you and your family,” she said. The pro­
gram will begin as soon as the government 
is back in session. Read more
Congressional Republican Accused of 
Mooning Protesters
Representative Steve Scalise (R-Louisiana) 
has been accused of indecent exposure af­
ter allegedly mooning protesters in front of 
the Capitol. Albert Jessny, a student at the 
Corcoran College of Art and Design, says he 
was holding up a sign that said “Stop Argu­
ing,” when Scalise came out, dropped his 
pants, and shouted, “Argue with this!” 
Read more
Castro Volunteers as Interim President
In a five-hour speech delivered in front of 
Havana’s statue of José Martí, revolution­
ary leader and former Cuban president 
Fidel Castro offered to come out of retire­
ment to serve as interim president of the 
United States. “This is more than just a 
fiscal crisis—it is a crisis in leadership,” he 
shouted. “This is an opportunity to show 
the world what a real government looks 
like.” His grandson, Alexis Castro Soto del 
Valle, stood beside him, waving an AK-47.  



**Title: Everyday Writing in the Medieval Near East: Documentary History and the Cairo Geniza**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Everyday Writing 
in the Medieval 
Near East: 
Documentary 
History and 
the Cairo Geniza
Public symposium 
  Sunday, November 3
  Luce Hall 
  MacMillan Center 
  34 Hillhouse Avenue
  New Haven, Connecticut 
www.everydaywritingyale.com
made possible by the  
david a. oestreich fund  
sponsored by the  
program in judaic studies
