Publication date: 04/05
Volume 37, Issue 5

**Beneath the Sterling Library Stacks**
**Author: Unlisted**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Beneath the Sterling Library stacks, shielded from students and sunlight, lies the library's Preservation department. In this subterranean labyrinth of antiquated tomes, one expects to find the Seven Dwarves digging for diamonds. Instead, one finds people of regular proportions who seem not to suffer from lack of sunlight although Betsy Haugh, the administrative assistant, jokes, "When I first came to work here, I thought I would need to leave a trail of crumbs to find my way around."

This maze is one of Yale's three interdependent departments of preservation divided between Sterling Memorial Library (SML), the British Art Center (BAC) and the Yale University Art Gallery (YUAG). They care for over 11 million books and 437,000 works of art, some of which date to several thousand years BCE. Time may heal all human wounds, but all art suffers wounds over time. Preserving these treasures is a Herculean task carried out by mortals. Seldom seen by students, conservators spend their days performing acts of magic to prevent the trove from decaying into dust.


Roberta Pilette, a willowy woman who goes by Bobbie, is the head of Sterling's Preservation department. She explains cheerfully that her particular department cares for all of the university's books, maps and manuscripts, including the material in Manuscripts and Archives, the Beinecke, the Medical Library and the Divinity School. At thirty years old, the department is one of the oldest in the United States.
At the end of a narrow hallway lined with bookshelves, the staff of the Reformatr ing and Media Preservation (RaMP) unit handles photographs, historical sound recordings, film, slides and books. Preservation Librarian David Walls presides over scores of plastic boxes filled with books that have just returned from adventures in de-acidification. Older Western books and contemporary ones from developing countries, he explains, are printed on acidic paper that swiftly disintegrates. The books in the plastic bins are those that have returned from being soaked in magnesium carbonate, which neutralizes acid and extends the life of the book. Walls also show off hardbound photocopies of older, illustrated books, which look and wear better than the originals.
Long-suffering books sit on a "triage cart," waiting to be reviewed. Very few will actually be discarded, and only after they have been preserved in other formats.


More fortunate flyleaves find themselves down the hall in Collections Care, a unit that handles basic repairs and bindings. Tara Kennedy, an outgoing, bespectacled redhead wearing a bright blue-and-green checked apron, demonstrates her handiwork. She has recently re-backed the spine of The Jesuit Relations and Allied Documents, and covered the green-and-orange-lettered binding of Gene Stratton Porter's Freckles with protective polyethylene film.
This film, Kennedy explains, helps to preserve the covers of books whose leather bindings have deteriorated to a mess she calls "red rot."


The third department is the most obscure, tucked away on the second mezzanine of the first floor of the stacks. A sign points the way to "Conservation," but deceptively shows a man working at a printing press. The Conservation unit does not print books, but it does work vintage machinery and many books older than Gutenberg's invention. While RaMP programs at the University of Delaware's Winterthur School and the University of Texas at Austin, serve as training grounds for Yale and other top research libraries.
Chief Conservator Gisela Noack and her assistant Lesley Santora hunch over a 15th-century book with metal clasps whose cover has split in half. The two fill the split with resin and plan to tone it to match the wood. Noack, an elegant woman sporting a burgundy blazer, marbled scarf and short auburn hair, uses her chemistry training to salvage the most delicate cases of decay. The Conservation staff spends their days filling in missing parts of maps with similarly colored old paper and using watercolors to touch up parts of these maps. They make boxes and bindings out of the rolls of buckram that drape down one wall, and line all kinds of paper with Japanese tissue to add strength.
Noack's most recent project is a series of small drawings by George Catlin, which were pasted on a larger sheet of paper with glue made from bone. This glue has discolored the drawings, but she uses protease to dissolve the glue fibers and remove the stain. A moldy book sits under the "fume hood," anticipating cleansing with a suction tool. Discolored maps sit in tubs of de-ionized, filtered water that will remove degradation products, thus restoring the maps' original color (impure water that contains iron will cause "foxing," or red spotting). And of course, Noack points out, there are "many little things you can do with a hair dryer."
But mistakes have been made. "The most horrifying [mistake] that I experienced," Noack remembers, concerned a "late 19th century imprint with purple initials. The person put it in de-acidification solution, and there was pink running down!" Luckily, since all conservators work on the "reversibility principle," even this mistake could be repaired by applying a