Publication date: December 9, 1983
Volume: 16
Issue number: 5

**MASTHEAD**
- Publisher: Hilary Callahan
- Editor-in-Chief: W. Hampton Sides
- Designer: Tom McQuillen
- Photography Editor: Christine Ryan
- Business Managers: Robert Moore, Peter Phleger
- Managing Editors: Jim Lowe, Morris Panner
- Production Manager: Tony Reese
- Associate Business Managers: Katie Kressmann, Vanessa Sciarra, Marilynn Sager
- Associate Editors: Paul Hofheinz, Tina Kelley, Mike Otsuka, Laura Pappano, Katherine Scobey
- Associate Production Managers: Lauren Rabin, Christianna Williams
- Staff: Larry Goon, Jim Ayer, Dani Morrow, Anne Applebaum, Sally Sloan, Joyce Banerjee, Amy Stevens, Eduardo Cruz, Corinne Tobin, Darren Gersh, Lelia Wardwell, Nicholas Christakis, Lisa Yun
- Executive Board: Hilary Callahan, Paul Hofheinz, Jim Lowe, Tom McQuillen, Robert Moore, Morris Panner, Peter Phleger, Tony Reese, Christine Ryan, Hampton Sides


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- Letters
- Between the Vines
- NewsJournal
- The Moonies: East Meets West on Chapel Street
- Lana: A Story of Scarlet Letters, Private Lives and Public Health
- Conservatism at Yale-The Old and the New
- The Party of the Right: Yale's Intellectual Wunderkind?
- The rise of the Right: A Status Report
- Ahead of the Charles
- Basketball Bounces Back
- Beating the Habit
- Books
- Afterthought


****Title: Scarlet Letters and Public Risks: A New Chapter in the AIDS Debate**
**Author: [Author not specified]**
**Page number(s): 3**

The New Journal 
Cover ,g, by Tom McQuillen


**Title: The Moonies: East Meets West on Chapel Street**
**Page number(s): 10**

A slice of life in New Haven's friendliest cult.


**Title: Lana: A Story of Scarlet Letters, Private Lives and Public Health**
**Page number(s): 16**

A prostitute who is a suspected AIDS carrier and the dilemma that she poses for public health officials in New Haven.


**Title: Conservatism at Yale-The Old and the New**
**Page number(s): 21**


**Title: The Party of the Right: Yale's Intellectual Wunderkind?**
**Page number(s): 22**

A serious look at a not-so-serious tradition.


**Title: The rise of the Right: A Status Report**
**Page number(s): 29**

Facts and figures on a different brand of conservatism.


**Title: Ahead of the Charles**
**Page number(s): 35**

Swimming upstream with New England's beautiful people.


**Title: Basketball Bounces Back**
**Page number(s): 36**

It's been 22 years since Yale has won the Ivies. This year may be different.


**Title: Beating the Habit**
**Page number(s): 44**

Two new approaches to overcoming drug dependency.



**Title: RETURN OF THE RED EYE**
**Author: Tina Kell**
**Page number(s): 6**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
3:15 A.M. is the bewitching hour.
Most people who die do it at 3:15. In
The Amityville Horror all the bad things
happened at 3:15. It's 3:15. Even the
Ides of March is on 3/15. Now it's
3:16. I hate the neon red numbers on
my alarm clock. I'm an English major.
I have no left brain. I hate numbers.
Especially 3, 1 and 7.


Something bad is happening at this
horrible hour. Or rather, not happening. My last paper of the semester is
still being born .(being still-born?), 20
hours after I started it, six before it is
due. Five hours and 42 minutes.
Songs run through my head to the
beat of the rubber band in my rickety
electric typewriter. I turn it off (the
typewriter? my head? both) and sadly
begin once again to clean my desk.
A paper shouldn't be this difficult.
Each semester Yale students hand in
almost
half a
million
sheets of
8 ½ -by-11 inch medium-white bond.
After D.S. and Nightly Themes I
should be accustomed to putting my
brain in the crank-out mode and
finishing before daybreak. But I've yet
to learn the tricks of the paper-writing
profession.


Earlier this evening I'd been ahead
of the game. I'd read the book. I'd even
taken notes. I thought I had the best
topic for my paper on the Iliad-
"Patroklos: An Ancient Greek Christ
Figure." I liked the title for its import.
It reminded me of a friend's prize-
winning paper, "Nietzsche's On the
Genealogy of Morals: Catachresis and the
Value-Positing Eye." It pays to use colons.


Only after I had written three and a
half pages did I realize that Patroklos
lived 850 years before Christ.


At nine I realized that my paper
would fall flat if I didn't find the Oxford
English
Dictionary etymology of
all the words in my title. In Sterling I
found Beth Teare, Davenport '85, jot-
ting down numbers in the margin of
her copy of Rimbaud. She was calcu-
lating how far she had to write tonight:
"A five-page paper, at 24 lines a page,
seven and a half inches per line, would
be as long as the hall from the circula-
tion desk to the High Street exit. I can
write that far!"


We celebrated this fact with a study-
break in Machine City: Archetype of
Intellectual
Alienation
in
Modern
Society. We ran into a group of friends
who offered to write our papers for us,
each person composing one paragraph.
I'd heard of someone who succumbed
to this temptation last year when
writing her term paper for a credit/fail
course. She failed.


I
wished my friends luck and
prepared for the arduous transition
back to work by reading the bulletin
boards by the staircase. You never
know when information here can come
in handy. You never know when you'll
feel an overwhelming urge for sitar
lessons or when you'll be looking for a
good lecture on Conspiracy and Sup-
pression
in Eighteenth Century
Hoboken.



One page later I realized I
needed to go home for a dab
of Blistex beneath my
eyelids. (The menthol keeps
them open.)


Back up to the Main Reading Room
in search of any familiar face, anyone
to help me with Homer. "Learn from
people, not books," said Benjamin
Franklin. Or was it Aristotle? Bartlett's
Quotations (PN 6081 B37 1980, last
shelf on the right) says, "Draw from
others the lesson that may profit
yourself"- Heauton Timoroumenos,
the same guy who said, "Moderation in
all things." He never pulled an all-
nighter. He never spent 20 minutes
reading Bartlett's Quotations.


"May I have your attention please?"
No. "The circulation desk is now
closed. The library will close in 15
minutes." I had an outline by that
time, though it looked more like a
physics problem set, vectors every-
where. I stopped at Store 24, where 10
p.m. and 4 a.m. are gloriously similar,
demanded "Coffee! No sugar! No
cup!" and headed for the Morse
library.


One page later I realized I needed to
go home for a dab of Blistex beneath
my eyelids. (The menthol keeps them
open.) I tried to pick up my backpack
from under the table, but it wouldn't
move. Someone's head was resting on
it.


"What are you doing under the table
in the foetal position?"
"Sleeping," said the owner of the
head. "There are fewer drafts under
here. Going back to my room would be
admitting defeat."


I didn't care. I went back anyway
and cleaned my desk again. Cleaned
under my nails. Painted them with
White-Out. Waited for them to dry.
Flossed my teeth.


Blaise Pabon, JE '85, once told me
how he cured himself of fidgeting. "I
made my friend handcuff me to my
desk and leave the key. I told him
he couldn't let me loose till my paper
was done," he recalled. What if he had
to go to the bathroom during his con-
finement? "I guess I didn't give it much
thought," he said


But now it says 3:28 on my alarm
clock, and my mind is running on
automatic pilot. It's clearly time for the
Generic Paper. I pick several nouns,
verbs and adjectives and start writing
sentences: synthesis, coheres, infra-
structure, Keynesian, dichotomy, con-
notations,
conflate,
Hegelian, jux-
taposition, Hobbes (often typed "Gob-
bes" at this hour), clearly and in con-
clusion. One sees that the problema-
tical effort inherent in producing a text
by this method is at best formidable.


When this doesn't work, I start
moaning. "Sing in me, Muse, and
through me tell the story of . . . " No
luck. "Or Man's First Disobedience,
Sing, Heavenly Muse?" It worked for
Milton. "One's Self I sing, a simple
desperate person." Silence. "Descend
from heaven, bitch!"


After a similar plea, a friend of mine
once felt a poem approaching with the
sunrise:

My paper is due tomorrow
My blood flows black
Like coffee
And my mind races
In reverse
My thoughts swirl above
The Old Campus


**Title: A Scientist's Defense**
**Author: Werner P. Wolf**
**Page number(s): 4**

To the Editor:
The recent article "Blinded
with
Science" by W. Hampton Sides (TNJ
September 9, 1983), raised an in-
teresting and important question. Why
are Yale poets "in the dark" when it
comes to science? Is it because scientists
are not willing to teach them or is it
because they are in a preconditioned
state of mind which makes it difficult for
them to learn? I would like to suggest,
in disagreement with Mr. Sides, that it
is largely (if not completely) the latter
which leads to the present deplorable
state of affairs.


Many
Yale undergraduates,
like
many people in this country in general,
simply do not understand what science
is all about. They seem to believe, like
Mr. Sides, that learning about science
involves the acquisition of facts, facts
which often seem to them irrelevant. If
that were really the case, then most
scientists would also be "in the dark,"
since the number of known facts far .ex-
ceed the number that any individual
can acquire in a lifetime.


What distinguishes a scientist from
an uninformed layman is the way in
which he or she will approach a scien-
tific question. The scientist will analyze
the question in terms of specific con-
cepts,
often involving quantitative
estimates of several contributing fac-
tors. It is this analytical approach which
makes it possible to consider new ques-
tions for which all of the relevant facts
are not already established. It is this
same approach which is needed by the
non-science major on the floor of the
Senate debating an appropriations bill
for a new particle accelerator, or by the
homeowner considering the purchase of
a solar energy unit. The facts can
always be acquired if one can decide
just what facts are needed.


To learn this sort of approach,
students must first understand that
specific examples are designed to il-
lustrate the methods of science and not
just to teach the facts. Any student who
can understand the concepts of energy
conservation and efficiency will have a
much easier time figuring out if the
solar energy salesman is making real-
istic claims for the unit he is trying to
sell, even if he has never taken a course
in solar energy.


Fortunately, there are at Yale a
number of courses which stress this sort
of analytical approach. One of the most
successful of these, "Perspectives on
Technology," has been offered for more
than ten years by the Engineering
departments. In that course students
are asked to perform simple numerical
calculations which are relevant to real
problems, such as the small slices of
silicon which Mr. Sides craves, but still
many of the students have difficulty do-
ing the homework or the final exams.


Each year, a number of students do
seem to overcome these difficulties and
grasp the idea of analyzing a problem
quantitatively, and some even become
quite enthusiastic about science. Those
who have not yet found the key to
understanding what science is all about
should consider carefully if it is not
perhaps their built-in prejudice, that
science is just a collection of obscure
facts, which is keeping them in the
dark.


Sincerely yours,
Werner P. Wolf
Chairman
Council of Engineering


**Title: The Search for Delight**
**Author: Chris Maxey**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

While reading Eric Brende's article
"Dissection vs. Delight," (TNJ, October
21, 1983) initially I agreed with his
denunciation of the way his English 129
professor overemphasized the deeper
analytical questions at the expense of
the simple delights found in the
language itself. Where Brende goes
wrong is when he uses this example to
generalize about the way in which the
humanities are taught at Yale.


I have had many professors at Yale
who have concentrated on fusing the
students' experience with the information
under study. Master Thompson,
whose course has recently been de-
graded by Newsweek, goes one step fur-
ther by allowing his students to ex-
perience African culture
first-hand.


through the use of slides, music and
dance.


Master Thompson, along with many
other enthusiastic professors at Yale,
constantly stimulates the material by ac-
tively encouraging delight. Thus, the
renaissance which Brende is looking for
can be found right here at Yale. You
just have to know where to look for it.
Chris Maxey
PC '84


**Title: The Entrepreneurial Spirit**
**Author: Thomas McCance, Jr.**
**Page number(s): 5**

I was interested to read your recent article,
"The Yale Entrepreneurs," (TNJ,
October 21, 1983). I was surprised to
note, however, that you did not mention
the 1983 Quarter Century Fund in
your piece on Skip Klein. Although the
35-year-old Quarter Century Fund is
not strictly entrepreneurial, it does re-
quire an entrepreneurial spirit in its
senior class leadership.


Skip served as Chairman of the 1983
QCF last year, and under his leadership
it raised $12,000 in pledges and $9,000
in cash from the Class of 1983. He and
his 140 senior volunteers broke the all-
time money record which had been
previously held for 14 years by the Class
of 1969 and reached the highest par-
ticipation in ten years.


I was also privileged to read Skip's
brilliant essay on the Yale Endowment.
My opinion of his imagination and
competence could not be higher.
Thomas McCance, Jr.
Managing Director
Yale Alumni Fund


**Title: Progress Through Divestment**
**Author: Will Masters**

I read with great interest and pleasure
Kathleen Cleaver's interview with
Master Robin Winks (TNJ, October). I
agreed with Master Winks' commit-
ment to "seeing for himself" and his will-
ingness to break an informal, perhaps
counter-productive educators' boycott.
Winks was probably able to teach future
Afrikaner leaders something other than
what their parents and press were say-
ing.


However, I must respond to his
dismissal of the divestment movement
at Yale. Just as progressives within
South Africa must look hard to find
ways towards progress in their country,
so must we search for actions more ef-
fective than the current U.S. corporate
and government consensus of "Con-
structive Engagement."


The vast majority of both opposition
leaders in Africa, and anti-apartheid
groups in other countries, agree that
divestment from South Africa is a
positive step. Divestment is in no way
like a consumer boycott, like "taking
Russian vodka off the shelf." Not to buy
a product is to deny someone a small
amount of profit. To do business in
South Africa is to support actively the
Afrikaner government. Through pro-
viding services and paying taxes, com-
panies bring to the government that
which it needs to maintain its repres-
sion. Such support, no matter how
qualified by political rhetoric or private
charity, cannot be seen as a progressive
force. In South Africa, government
control of commerce is ubiquitous. The
government ensures that commerce
functions in its interest, and that the
human and physical capital of the
business community can be turned to
the state's needs and demand.


Foreign companies lending them-
selves to this process do not have an ef-
fective voice in state policy, and Yale
does not have an effective voice in the
companies it invests in. Given the con-
tributions our investments make to the
intolerable government of South Africa,
any divestment is a good thing.


No one here believes we can "bring
apartheid crumbling to the ground."
We only believe we can do justice to our
progressive beliefs, and contribute to a
better use of our endowment. It is pro-
gress itself that will bring down apar-
theid, in its own due time.
Will Masters
Berkeley, '84



**Likt! a vnrlt!x**
**Author: Tina Kelley**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Likt! a vnrlt!x 
And tht vacuum if in "!Y .~ul 
And "!Y.finf!tn likt! tht! Dawn's 
Rtach into t'Vt'ry coma of 
Evny room and pawn 
And I am hit! and happy 
And kick myrt!({ into nt!ulral 
Varonm varoom 
And I am rmall a,~ain 
And tht t'mpty pagt!s must ht!.fillt!d. 
4:02. The Cerebellum-Vellum At-
traction Syndrome sets in. The wood 
from .ny desk sends ou t magnetic rays 
to my brain. Everything starts to look 
two-dimensional. I have rapid eye 
movem<'nt with my eyes open. 
I wake to the screeches of the gar· 
bagt' trucks on York Street, stumble in· 
to the bathroom and notice that I am 
COVered with snarf marks, those red 
streaks you get on your face when 
>:ou do;.e with your clothes on, par· 
tlcularly intriguing when you sleep on 
Y0~Jr arm while wearing a fisherman· 
kntt sweater. I look like modern art. 
Try scrubbing them, soaking them, 
and you still have . . . 
.• I go take a real nap. I Jay my paper 
far away from the open window shud· 
dering as I remember what ha~pened 
to Peter Neitlich, Morse '85. "One 
morning two years ago I left my 
12-page paper on my desk in front of 
an open window," he remembered with 
... 
.. 
-~ 
"It was futile. I was contem· 
plating some serious squirrel 
murder." 
an apocryphal smile, and all of a sudden 
I heard a squeaking noise on my 
desk, and the next thing I know, the 
paper's going out the window in the 
mouth of this squirrel." H e tried to 
lean out and grab the paper, which was 
due that morning. "It was futile. I was 
contemplating some serious squirrel 
murder. I thought I was doomed, but 
believe it or not, my T.A. gave me an 
extension. For several days after that I 
kept looking around for the paper, but 
all I ever found was a gnarled and 
gnawed page nine." 
At least he'd had a finished product. 
The only page I'm satisfied with now is 
the title sheet, which I typed yesterday 
at five. I walk down to the dining hall 
for consolation. 
Breakfast the morning a fter is never 
pleasant. I sit down with the seven 
dwarfs: Grumpy, Sleepy, Snoozy, 
Sneezy, 
Bleary, 
Wea r y 
and 
Thucydides. Thucydides takes inten-
sive G reek. H e is the last of the big-
time overachievers. 
He carries 
a 
monogrammed Cross pen 
in the 
pocket of his crisply-ironed shirt. His 
' 
watch beeps every 15 minutes and runs 
fast so he is never late. He measures 
out the sugar for his tea. H e levels it ofT 
with his butter knife. "Son of a gun," 
he lisps, "I do hope my typist has my 
paper ready. After all, I gave it to her 
Wednesday. I need time to get___it 
xeroxed." Grumpy throws an ice cube 
and nails him squarely on the skull. It 
bounces ofT with a dull thud. 
Ten minutes till D·day, and I have 
only one page to go. It's time to put on 
Springsteen real loud. "Born to Run" is 
inspiration for the sprint to the box in 
Linsly Chit. It may be a good sign that 
rm still writing because 
s ~ -'~ ff The. h eo+ 
th.~ \\ts ~l t- p~ ft.f' ' )\ 
fU\ V'l~ ThL. 
F<.>sor-~ {bGb k~ S 
~f't... c.omi ~ \.tf ~ 
· · · 
• 
Tina Ktlley, a iunior in M orst, is an 
A ssociatt Editor ojTNJ .


**Labor Pains: Fighting for a Contract**
**Author: News Journal**
**Page number(s): 8**

For over 15 years Yale has had tense 
relations with the unions that work for 
the University (see "The State of the 
Union," TN], February· 27, 1982). 
Now early contacts between the Uni-
versity and Local 34, the new union of 
secretaries, librarians and other clerical 
and technical workers, indicate that 
things are still less than rosy between 
Yale and its unionized work force. 

The clerical and technical employees 
voted to form a union last M ay after a 
lengthy and heated organizing cam-
paign that often found the University 
and the union at lo~erheads . In the six 
months since then, attempts to nego-
tiate a contract have bogged down. 

So far, the greatest problems have 
arisen over the issue of pay for members 
of the union neg?tiating committee who 
lose work hours during contract talks. 
O riginally, Yale felt that these people 
should receive no compensation for lost 
work. while the union felt that its 
negotiating team should not be pun-
ished for time spent on what it con-
sider ed "legitimate University 
business." Yale has since amended its 
position, saying that it will pay for one 
hour of time for each worker for each 
negotiating session, but Local 34 finds 
this position unacceptable. 

There are other issues keeping Yale 
and Local 34 away from the bargaining 
table: Yale's original claim that there 
was no room on campus suitable for 
contract talks, 
disagreements over 
whether negotiations should take place 
during working hours and controversy 
over what the actual shape of the 
negotiating table should be. 

The union puts the blame for these 
problems squarely on the University. 
They say that the University is squab-
bling over technical points to harass the 
new union and stall for time. As Debra 
Chernoff, a member of the union's 
negotiating committee, said, "The issue 
is how legitimate the University con-
siders this process; what they're trying 
to show is that these negotiations arc 
not legitimate University business. Ob-
viously, we think they are." 

Bruce Chisman, the University's new 
President of Administration, disagrees 
with this interpretation. "I don't see 
things as tense. We aren't bosom bud-
dies, but Yale's relations with Local 34 
are the best they can be under the cir-
cumstances inherent whenever labor 
meets management over the bargaining 
table. You could say that we're friendly 
adversaries. I know this may sound 
pompous, but ultimately I believe that 
reasonable men will sec the rightness of 
our position." 

If these disagreements are 
not 
worked out, Yale could have a serious 
problem. 
The 2500 clerical and 
technic_al empJoyees form a crucial part 
of Yale's work force. If they went on 
strike, the University would have a dif-
ficult time functioning, especially if the 
strike were supported with a walkout by 
Local 35, the union of Yale's dining hall 
and maintenance 
workers, 
which 
helped 
organize 
the clerical and 
technical workers into a "sister union" 
last spring. 


**The Hinckley Letters**

After John Hinckley Jr. shot President 
Reagan in the spring of 1981, Rollin 
Riggs '82 found -that the pictures he'd 
been taking of actress J odie Foster '!Vqe 
valuable-so he sold them to Newsweek 
for an unspecified amount ("The Yale 
Entrepreneurs," TN], October 21). 
Riggs is still trying to make money 
ofT of the Hinckley affair. On Nov-
ember 11 four letters written by Hin-
ckley to R iggs were offered for sale at an 
auction in New York. 

Riggs refuses to cotr\ment on this in-
cident except to confirm that he did of-
fer the letters to the Charles Hamiltorf 
Gallery, 'the well-known New York 
handwriting firm which played an im-
portant role in exposing the forged 
Hitler diaries. Apparently, Riggs wrote 
to Hinckley in August of last year and 
asked if he could photograph the would-
be assassin. Hinckley wrote back saying . 
he would be happy to let Riggs take ex-
clusive photographs if Riggs would 
deliver a letter to Jodie Foster for him. 
He also asked Riggs to "keep track of 
her movements" and send the pictures 
he had taken of Foster. 

Riggs was shocked by these requests, 
according to The New York Post. He told 
the Post that he had written to Hinckley 
as a "professional photo-journalist" and 
had never intended to help him. Still, 
the Post ref>orts that he did send Hinck-
ley several pictures of Foster that had 
already been published, though he 
stopped short of delivering the love let-
ters to the actress. 

After exchanging several letters, 
Hinckley decided that Riggs was not 
going to help him any more than he 
already had, and the correspondence 
ended in September, less than two 
months after Riggs' first letter. 

But not every idea can turn a profit. 
No one at the auction bought the let-
ters which were offered at a starting 
price of $500. 


**Hamster Madness**
**Page number(s): 9**

It's no secret that four hamsters escaped 
from Yale's Laboratory of Epidemi-
ology and Public Health (LEPH)- at 
least not to readers of The New York 
Times, which covered the event in its 
Connecticut 
section. 
But 
the cir-
cumstances surrounding the lethal 
disease th«Y were carrying remain 
shrouded in m ystery. 

The missing animals had been in-
j~cted with Creutzfeld-J akob (CJ) 
VIrus, a mysterious ailment that at-
tacks the central nervous system and 
causes the brain to decay. The mortality 
t-ate for animals carrying the disease is 
100 
percent, 
although the latency 
period can last for several years. For-
tunately, the only known way of con-
tracting the disease is through direct in-
jection into the brain, though one out of 
a million contract it each year. 

The disease is so mysterious that a 
number of graduate students at LEPH 
believe that the experiment might be 
part of Department of Defense research 
into the possible use of CJ virus for 
germ warfare. Dr. Edward Adelberg, 
Deputy Provost of bio-medical science 
at LEPH, dismisses this charge, though 
he acknowledges that all of the money 
for the project came from the National 
Institutes of H ealth in Washington. 

Adelberg maintains that CJ virus would 
be a poor choice of materials in a germ 
war because there is no known antidote 
and thus no way of protecting one's own 
troops from the disease's debilitating ef-
fects. He points out that all research at 
Yale is unclassified and maintains that 
Yale's research into Cj virus is purely 
scientific. 

The hamsters that escaped from 
,.LEPH are not the first animals to get 
l~se. The laboratory has had a recur-
rmg problem with the safety latches on 
many of its cages. In fact, escapes have 
been so frequent that the technicians on 
duty at LEPH did not even report this 
escape to their supervisors when they 
discovered the empty cages on October 
3. A regular inspection conducted a 
week later first brought the matter to 
the attention of LEPH's bio-medical 
safety department, and a public an-
nouncement soon followed. 

Adelberg 
believes 
that the 
runaway rodents pose little threat to the 
Yale community. H e has suggested that 
th~ hamsters were incinerated in a bag 
of waste bedding they might have bur-
rowed into. One of the hamsters has 
already been found dead on the floor of 
the laboratory, but the other three re-
main unaccounted for. 

Newsjoumal wn"tten and repo~ by ]o.J:e 
Banerjee, Rich Blow, Paul Hojheinz andJ•m 
Lowe.



**Title: The Moonies: East Meets West on Chapel Street**
**Author: Anne Applebaum**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Constance smiles. She giggles nervously, asks your name and is pleased to meet you. She demurely points the way into a room with a green rug, two couches and a large television set. Aside from the pamphlets strewn on the coffee table and stacked in the hall, it could be any living room in any suburban home. Constance giggles again and promises that they will start soon. 
It is 10:00 A.M. The inhabitants of the yellow house on the corner of Elm and Norton streets are congregating downstairs. They greet each other and smile anxiously at the new guest. If today were a weekday, most would be leaving the house about now, heading to places like Cross Campus to hand out leaflets in the hopes that a few people will stop and listen to what they have to say. But today is Sunday and New Haven's Moonies are about to hold their worship service. 

The 20 or so people gathered in the house on Elm Street are part of the International One World Crusade, Reverend Moon's latest effort to bring spiritual renewal to America. Almost all of the Moonies in New Haven live here together. The Unification Church pays most of their rent, but some have taken part time jobs to make ends meet. 
Constance leads the way into the adjoining room where three rows of folding chairs are lined up facing a pulpit and a portrait of Reverend Moon. A woman wearing a purple dress stands up. She smiles broadly and asks the name of the new guest. Everyone claps. Everyone is pleased to meet you. 
As the woman begins to sing, Constance whispers that the blue songbook contains lyrics written by Reverend Moon. When she is finished, the woman in the purple dress begins reading passages from the Bible and from a large brown volume entitled "The Divine Principle," a collection of God's truth as revealed to the Reverend Moon on a mountain in Korea. The congregation bows its head in silence. 
A short man in a plain grey suit walks to the pulpit and smiles. His name is Bill Taylor, and he begins his sermon by reminding us that if our minds and bodies are unified, we can live God's perfection. "And if everyone lives God's perfection, the world will become perfect, right?" Taylor shakes his head sadly. "Unfortunately, we do not always do what our minds tell us to. But we must not stop trying; every individual is responsible for history." He looks out at the waiting congregation, and smiles again, "After all, it's a reality that each of us can change the world." 

This unassuming group of people seems far removed from the scandal and controversy that have surrounded the Unification Church. Allegations that the Moonies use brainwashing tactics on unsuspecting converts continue to damage the church's reputation. Fear of Moon's power and resentment of his vast financial holdings have caused some to question the sincerity of his religious mission. His links with South Korea's right wing government have also cast doubts on the vehement anti-Communist message he often preaches. 
But thousands of Moon's followers around the world continue to insist that Reverend Moon has provided them with a religious theology they can live by. They say they have been drawn to the church's desire to create a new world order based on the harmony of all things by "unifying" all religions and countries and building a bridge between modern science and religion. 

After the service the Moonies meet for lunch. Paul Yasutake looks down at his plate. "You see?" he laughs, "East and West. Eggdrop soup and bologna sandwiches." Paul grew up as a Protestant in Hawaii, but as a Cal State undergraduate considered becoming a disciple of a Vietnamese monk. He hesitated before taking his vows because Christian philosophies continued to intrigue him. When he met a Unificationist on the streets of Los Angeles, he knew he had found an answer. Today, he is one of the leaders of the New Haven church. As he waits for his soup to cool, he recalls Moon's attraction. "Buddhism was too passive. The Unification Church was involved in the world. We are active. We want to change things." 

Jean-Pierre, who has been nodding in silent agreement with Paul's exposition, now puts in a word of his own. He talks about his first Moonie religious retreat. "It was a spiritual experience. It was the first time I ever believed in God." Jean-Pierre is from Lyons, and his speech is colored by a very heavy French accent. Gino, an Italian, disagrees with what Jean-Pierre is saying. "For me, it was the people and the lifestyle. I was attracted to them before I even understood the theology." All concur that the theology is very difficult. 
Paul breaks the silence. "But we do have videotapes you can see sometimes if you want to understand it." He extends an invitation to visit the Unification Church's video center at 938 Church Street. "The more you learn, the more it all begins to fit together," he says. Everyone nods in agreement. 
Lunch is over. Nevin Coglazier, the leader of the New Haven Moonies, walks in quickly and apologizes for not attending the service. He must be in New York this afternoon he explains. But he is glad there is a guest, and he will be back tomorrow if you want to talk some more. He walks to the door and pauses to shake hands. He smiles. He was very pleased to meet you. 

Jonathan Wells doesn't need to prove anything to anybody. In his blue pinstripes and topsiders, he is perfectly at home in the common room of HGS. He looks around at the oak-paneled walls and grimaces. "They weren't sure I could do the work here. They thought I might be too dogmatic, incapable of learning." Now he smiles. "When they met me, I think they felt better." 
Jonathan Wells is a Moonie, and he finds absolutely no conflict between his religious commitment and his studies at the Yale Graduate School. 

Wells' career in the Unification Church began in 1973, not long after he emerged from a year and a half in jail for draft evasion. At that time, his disillusionment with activism propelled him to look for an alternative method of social change. At first, religion seemed to hold no answers; "all the meditation groups seemed too easy, too passive." Then Wells heard Reverend Moon speak at UC Berkeley. Here was a difference; a religious leader who preached "being active in the world." He joined the movement soon afterward. 
Was Jonathan Wells brainwashed? He puts down his coffee cup emphatically. "At age 32," he asks, "don't you think I knew what I was doing?" 
Besides, Wells himself leads Moonie retreats. "'They say we won't let you sleep? We practically have to force people to sleep. It's like putting kids to bed at camp. They're so excited they want to stay up all night." Wells attributes this bad publicity to anti-Korean "racism," the natural suspicion of a new religion, and the misinterpreted zealousness of Moon's followers. "Sure I've seen glassy-eyed Moonies," he shrugs. "If you were working long hours everyday, fundraising and witnessing, you might look glassy eyed too, but that doesn't mean you're not sincere." He continues, "We might have made some mistakes in the past- pushed a little too hard- but I don't think that is going on now." 

A hint of what Wells might mean by zealousness begins to creep into his voice when he talks about Reverend Moon. He leans back in his chair, says simply, "Reverend Moon is impossible to characterize. I would call him unpredictable, powerful, compassionate, and fatherly. All he talks about is God and what God wants. Whether or not he is the Son of God is open to question- I believe he is-but even if he weren't I would expect him to act just as he does." 
To thousands of people around the world, Moon is indeed the Messiah. Moon claims to have had his first revelation at age 16 when Jesus appeared to him and asked him to continue His work. Moon did not follow through on these instructions immediately. He studied electrical engineering until 1945, when he founded Unificationism. Today, Moon lives in a mansion in New York State with a group of his followers. He runs a seminary not far from his house and lectures there on occasion. Other than that, he rarely appears in public. 

Wells realizes that he is exceptionally privileged to have come into contact with Reverend Moon. He was fortunate enough to have been a student of Moon at the Unification Theological Seminary in Barreytown, New York. 
Wells looks up at the high wooden ceiling of HGS. He is optimistic "Moon is confident about the future too, because when people learn more they'll have to put God, humanity and America before their own personal success. And if you take that message seriously, someday you might find yourself challenged." 

With his blonde crewcut and white cotton sweater, Whitney Shiner is indistinguishable from the other Yale students talking at tables around him. But sitting in Naples at lunchtime, it is often difficult to hear him. Nevertheless, Shiner's voice echoes with a quiet fervor when he speaks about his purpose as a Moonie at Yale. "I am here to learn about Christian thought, and to talk to people from other denominations. There is a danger that our church could become isolated from other Christian sects because of our communal lifestyle. But Reverend Moon wants us to be active in the world, which is why he supports 30 or so graduate students around the country." 
Shiner gives away his Indiana origins and University of Chicago education with his slight Midwestern twang. As the conversation turns to his early involvement with the church, his eyes take on an intensive glint. For the first time, his voice rises above the din at Naples. "I have come to believe that the anti-war movement was a great mistake. Most of those who didn't have a religious commitment ended up dropping out." Shiner joined the movement at about the same time as his colleague and housemate Jonathan Wells. Like Wells, he says he found solace for his disillusionment in Moon's theology. "Reverend Moon teaches us to live first for God, then for the world. We can, through this process, restore the world to God's idea." 

Shiner concedes that "things inside the movement look weird to those who don't have faith." The wedding, for instance. The Moonie wedding was held in Madison Square Garden in 1982.


**Title: The Moonies in New Haven**
**Author: Amy Appelbbaum**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I t 
l . 
, 
.: 
Two thousand and seventy-five couples 
were married, including Shiner. But he 
shakes his head at the idea that the 
ceremony was impersonal. "It was a 
communal event. It made my life a part 
of the social fabric." Like those of many 
church members, Shiner's marriage was 
arranged, though he sees nothing odd 
about that. Maybe he has some prob-
lems, but "isn't it better than being in 
love first and having problems later?" 


This is especially true of Unifica-
tionism, which considers marriage to be 
an unbreakable pact in this life as well 
as in whatever comes next . 


The Moonie mass ntarriage has done 
more than merely provoke controversy. 
It has also changed the demography of 
the entire movement. Several years 
ago, the Moonies were almost all young 
singles. Now they consist of families 
with children. Shiner looks forward to 
finishing his studies so that he too can 
begin a family. Until then, his wife will 
live in Washington; she is a reporter for 
the Washin.l!lon Timts, one of Reverend 
Moon's newspapers. They see each 
other on weekends. Does he mind? Not 
particularly. "Everything at its proper 
time," he says. 


Shiner's voice again inflects with en-
thusiasm when he talks about Reverend 
Moon's purchase of the Washin.t:Lon 
Times and the New York Tribune. H e pa-
tiently explains that the United States 
press, like so many other American in-
stitutions, is corrupt. Stirring the ice in 
his coke with his straw, he shakes his 
head at the skeptics. "We own the 
paper- we don't manipulate the news. 
Sure the Tinus is a conservative voice. 
But we end up in that camp because we 
believe in family values and fighting the 
Communist threat, not because of some 
conspiracy." 


Nor does Shiner have any qualms 
about Moon's other business and finan-
Cial connections. He explains with 
painstaking care how Moon plans to use 
his fishing interests to alleviate world 
hunger, his machine factories to aid 
• Third World economies. No one has 
ever proven any allegations of corrup-
tion against Moon, and his indictment 
for tax evasion is being appealed by a 
Harvard constitutional law expert and 
contested by the National Council of 
Churches, who certainly has no great 
love for Reverend Moon. 


Shiner finishes his coke, runs his 
hand through his neat blonde hair. The 
jukebox begins to blare, and Shiner's 
voice again becomes submerged be-
neath the laughter coming from the ad-
jacent booth. Very quietly, he offers his 
optimism for the future. "We live in a 
world of practical 
demands, and 
Moon's money is needed to feed people, 
to teach them. With America's wealth, 
we can achieve world peace and har-
mony. I believe it can be a reality." 


IV. 


Even now, a tinge of resentment creeps 
into Jack Hasegawa's voice when he 
remembers his first contact with the 
Moonies. H asegawa, the head of Yale's 
Dwight Hall, has a decidedly unen-
thusiastic recollection 
of their ap-
pearance in Japan nine years ago .. 
"They all wore matchin~ blazers, and 
rode through downtown Kyoto broad-
casting tapes cut by professional radio 
announcers. The streets were flooded 
with representatives, all excited, all 
anxious to convince us that there were 
no alternatives." 


In 1975, Hasegawa's daughter, then 
15, was approached by a friend of the 
family who had recently converted to 
Unificationism. The friend often waited 
for 
Hasegawa's daughter to 
walk 
home from school, and insisted on call-
ing the Hasegawa house many times. 
"We felt very much invaded. I think 
they tried to get at her through her 
Korean origins and her discomfort with 
the newness of the Japanese culture." 


He pauses. "You know, my dau~hter is 
a very soft-spoken woman. But 
la~t 
summer, we were 
\\alkm~ in New 
Haven, and a Moonie put her hand on 
my son's arm. My daughter snatched 
him away, and said 'I am a Korean, 
and I am ashamed of what vou arc do-
ing.' I have rarely seen her react that 
stron~ly to anythin~.~ 


At the time of his daughter's ex-
perience, 
Hasc~awa began 
investi-
gating some of Moon's other activities. 
He was struck by the complexity of 
Moon's financial network, and by 
allegations that Moon's fac;torics were 
no less exploitative than the sw1.:atshops 
run by capitalist interests. It sc:emed as 
if each new discovery about the Unifica-
tion Church reinforced all of his earlier 
susp1c1ons. 


H is 
inYolvement 
with 
C hristian social reform movements in 
Japan, which at that time suffered a 
degree of persecution from the Japanese 
government, opened his eyes to the 
possibility of even 
wider scandal. 


Speaking quite clearly, 
he recalls, 
"There was one building in Kyoto 
where various Christian groups had of-
fices. All at once, we were expelled. The 
offices were given to the Moonies. We 
thought it might have had something to 
do with Moon's alleged connections to 
the South Korean government." 


Hasegawa continues: "It all seems so 
paranoid now." He is smiling, but when 
he speaks it becomes apparent that if he 
is not now afraid of the Moonies, he 
certainly was in the past. "Granted the 
organization 
has perhaps changed. 
Perhaps they made mistakes." Just 
before Hasegawa came to Yale, the 
Moonies had actually been forbidden 
the use of Dwight Hall for mislabelling 
' . 
a lecture which turned out to be a 
recruiting meeting. Since then, they 
have openly asked for the hall on several•• 
occasions, and have been given permis· 
sion to use it. 


Others have noticed the Moonies' ap-
parant change in tactics. "They seem to 
have learned to give people room," ac-
cording to John Vannorsdall, Yale's 
chaplain. He notes that the Moonies 
now have all of the trappings of institu-
tionalized 
religion, 
including a 
seminary, a cohesive theology and 
members studying at institutions like 
Yale. "How do you judge legitimacy?" 
he asks, adding that neither he nor any 
other Yale minister has recently had any 
contact with the Unification in an 
adverse way. 


But Hasagawa scoffs at the Moonies' 
claim that they exist primarily to help 
other peop~. "As head of Dwight Hall, 
I come into contact with about 70 or 80 
charitable organizations. We don't see 
the Moonies. If they have all that 
money, where are they?" 


v . 


The Chapel Street video center echoes 
with a myriad of accents. This is where 
the New Haven Moonie missionaries 
have their headquarters. The most im· 
portant part of Moonie religious activi-
ty takes place here. A short, thin man 
opens the door. In a thick Scottish ac· 
cent, he introduces himself as Frank 
and offers to explain the Moonie 
theology. 


Frank points 
to the video tape 
machines and the chairs in one room 
where lectures arc given every week. 
"Here is where you can learn. If 
everyone loved God, if everyone ex-
pressed God's love in his personal life as 
Reverend 
Moon 
does, 
we 
could 
realize paradise on earth ." Frank looks 
at his guest intently. "God is not a hap-
py G od. By being ignored or laughed at 
by people when you arc witnessing, you 
learn how God must feel." 


Frank shows the way into a very 
small room, containing nothing but two 
chairs, a low table and a television set. 
He opens his briefcase, and without idle 
rhauc-r begins to explain M oonie theol-
ogy. H e gets out a piece of paper, and 
draws Adam, Ev(', the snake and the 
apple. as well as a whole series of otht•r 
symbols: the same ones you might st•e 
on a blackboard on Cross Campus. 


Speaking quickly and earnestly, he 
shows how these symbols reveal the im-
portam·e of a moral family life, the 
possibility of peace on ear1h, and the 
way to live with God. "Basically, we're 
talking about the achievement of a 
unifiration of mind and body. which 
ran be achieved through moral it~ . " 


Evil, he explains, arises from improp<•r 
usc of God's gifts, from man tl]-ing w 
grow too quickly, to make judgmt•nts 
when still immature. Of course, "All is 
explained in the Divint Principlt. • 


Frank stops only to answet· a ft•w 
questions. "Do we have much success at 
Yale?" H t• appears somewhat puzzled. 
"Usually p<:ople here are too caught up 
in their own presuppositions. We have 
more c;u<·cess with blacks and Third 
\\'orld people who are more open-
minded ~ Frank immediatelv laum·hes 
into a fervent re-explanation of the 
Moonies' ?clief in morality, family. and 
anti-Com. nu nism. 


. Frank gt•ts up and says goodbye. He 
Js sorry he did not have time to com-
plete his t•xplanation. It is necessary to 
come back, to learn more. H e might 
not be: in Nt''-' Haven much lonl{er, but 
sorneont• is always here. If ,·ou «>Ill<' 
• one t"•ening, there are always le< tures, 
or if vou can't do that, there art• ah-.avc; 
videotapes. Frank smiles. H e is happ) 
you came. 


**Title: LANA A Story of Scarlet Letters and Public Risks**
**Author: W. Hampton Sides**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
·LANA 
A Story of Scarlet Letters 
and Public Risks 
W. Hampton Sides 
The hookers hang out just down Chapel 
Street from a grid-pattern park filled 
with concrete posts, brown paper bags 
and busted glass. The women stand 
against the traffic signs in their platform 
heels and fake furs, smoking cigarettes 
in the black voids between the street-
lamps. One of them might move toward 
your window, ask if you want a good 
time or maybe go for a car ride. 
It is not New Haven's worst area-
far from it. Yale is only a few blocks 
away. Still, it is not much of. a 
neighborhood to be standing out on 
windy streetcorners in the middle of the 
night. 

This is Lana's neighborhood, where 
she hangs out. Lana has been a pros-
titute since she was a teenager. She has 
been with all kinds of people over the 
last nine years- neighborhood acquain-
tances, local businessmen, even Yale 
students from time to time. Hers is a 
story of eviction notices, needles and a 
broken home. Up until a year and a half 
ago, Lana was no different from any 
other New Haven prostitute; but then 
something happened. 

Lana thought it was a miracle when 
she discovered that she was pregnant, so 
she decided to have the baby. But not 
long after her son was born, the doctors 
at Yale-New H aven H ospital told her 
that he had a serious disease and would 
have to stay at the hospital indefinitely. 
H er baby, they said, had contracted 
AIDS, almost certainly in the womb. 

Lana had yet to show signs of the 
syndrome, but her past as a prostitute 
and an I. V. drug user placed her in two 
risk categories for AIDS. Although the 
disease was overwhelmingly associated 
with homosexuals in the public eye, 17 
prostitutes across the country had 
already died of AIDS since 1978, and 
some 600 I. V. drug users had also con-
tracted it. So Lana was almost certainly 
a carrier, if not a victim. 

Lana and her baby are not the first 
people in the area to come in contact 
with this 100 percent fatal syndrome 
which destroys the body's defenses 
against 
infection. 

Yale-New Haven 
Hospital has diagnosed over 25 AIDS 
cases from all over Connecticut so far 
(more than half of whom have died). 
The AIDS clinic has also been following 
over 250 outpatients who either have 
AIDS in its early stages or are at high 
risk. In May, a 29-year-old resident 
physician at Yale-New Haven died of 
AIDS, though his death received no at-
tention either at Yale 01· in the city 
papers. Still the risks in New Haven are 
small, particularly for a city 70 miles 
from New York City, where half the 
world's 2,500 AIDS. cases have been 
reported. 

Seven months after Lana's baby was 
diagnosed, he is still in a special care 
pediatric ward at Yale-New H aven. He 
will probably die within the year, most 
likely of opportunistic infections or 
Kaposi's sarcoma, a rare form of cancer 
associated with AIDS. All told, it will 
cost the government and the hospital 
between $60,000 and $300,000 to keep 
the baby alive as long as technology can 
sustain him. 

Meanwhile, Lana has had to resume 
her life on the streets to support herself 
and her $200-a-day heroin dependency. 
In October, she was taken off an out-
patient methadone program funded 
through Connecticut Mental Health 
Center when a routine urine test re-
vealed that she was back on heroin. 

Public health officials were growing 
concerned that she might be sharing her 
needles with some of her customers and 
friends. H er blood test had shown a low 
T-cell count, which can be an early 
symptom of AIDS as well as any 
number of common infections. 

The physicians were unsure about 
her status because AIDS is an unusually 
difficult disease to diagnose. It has a six-
month to three-year incubation period. 
Further, pathologists have identified 
three distinct stages of the illness, and 
only when a person reaches the third 
stage can a doctor verify that he or she 
has the disease. 

Last week Lana checked into a city 
hospital with pneumonia, another early 
indication of AIDS. The evidence was 
conclusive enough 
to 
prompt 
the 
hospital officials to place her in strict 
isolation as.a "presumed" AIDS patient. 
Anyone who wished to enter her room 
was required to wear a white gortex 
smock, surgical gloves and a mask. Any 
unprotected o~jects that one carried out 
had to be destroyed for fear of con-
tamination. One of the nurses ex-
pressed bewilderment that people would 
risk going into the isolation room "with 
an AIDS patient in there." The hospital 
was filled with forgone conclusions 
about a patient with pneumonia. It 
seemed strange that for all the commo-
tion abou(•AIDS, the hospital planned 
to let her out the next day. 

Inside her room, Lana was smoking 
a cigarette and watching Happy Days. 
She didn't like the fact that her guests 
had to wear space suits. She pulled 
down three polaroid snapshots of her 
baby from the wall. What were the 
strangers scared about? She had been 
hustling for nine years. If she was going 
to give anything to anybody, it was tOO 
late to start worrying about it now. 
Anyway, tomorrow she would be out-
side again. 

© W. Hampton Sides


Word about Lana and her baby had 
begun to circulate in the community as 
early as July. A few irresponsible 
rumors surfaced about a modern-day 
Typhoid Mary walking the streets. The 
Health Department found out about the 
case, though there was little it could do 
but monitor the situation indirectly 
through the hospital. "What do you do 
with a potential AIDS carrier who 
refuses to cooperate- put her in jail?" 
asked Lisa Stone, the Assistant to the 
Health Department Director, who has 
been monitoring AIDS cases in New 
Haven. "In fact, we are not allowed 
under the law to do anything.~ Dr. 
Randolph Young, one of the physicians 
on the AIDS team at Yale-New Haven; 
concurred: "It is not necessary for a per-
~on to have stage three AIDS in order to 
transmit it to another person. But one 
would have to think long and hard 
before violating someone's rights in the 
name of public health. You would have 
to be c<>nvinced that you could do some 
good. At this point, I am not." 

Police Chief William Farrell found 
out too, though the Department was not 
about to arrest anybody for being sick. 
"We could have patrolmen out on the 
streets tracking down individuals who 
haven't committed crimes," said Sgt. 
Joe Polio. "But then we're talking ab<>ut 
something closely akin to the witch 
hunts of Salem." Soon 
the city's 
newspaper learned ab<>ut Lana's baby. 
"One of the confirmed AIDS cases [at 
Yale-New Haven] ... is a baby whose 
mother is an intravenous drug abuser 
and a prostitute," wrote Joan Barbuto 
in the Ntw Haven Rtgister on July 9. 
That was the first and last press atten-
tion the case received, and even then it 
was buried on page 25 of the paper. 

The authorities said the confusion 
s~rrounding the transmission of the 
• dtsease was one reason why they had 
taken so little action. No clear evidence 
t:xisted that proved a woman could sex-
ually transmit AIDS 10 a man. "We 


can't even positively p rove that AIDS is 
transmitted from one man to another 
man," said Bill Sabella, the Connecticut 
State Epidemiologist for AIDS in H art-
ford. "We can only surmise. I mean we 
don't have an organism we can look at 
under a microscope like we do with 
most communicable diseases." There 
was no legal or medical justification for 
making Lana's private life as a pros-
titute a matter of public concern. 

Since the summer, Lana has unknow-
ingly become a focal point in the larger 
debate about AIDS in the Yale-New 
Haven community. 
Seldom has a 
hooker been the topic of conversation 
among so many high-level officials. 
Certainly a story about a d rug-abusing 
prostitute who gave birth to an infant 
with AIDS is the glaring exception to a 
number of rules. But it nonetheless 
brings to light- in a graphic and ap-
parently unprecedented way-the mul-
titude of legal and ethical questions 
which arise from a puzzling new disease 
in which there are, in the end, no real 
authorities. 

"T here are some real competing in-
terests in this case," acknowledged Lisa 
Stone. "But at the same time, you don't 
want that to become an excuse for doing 
nothing. I'm not trying to shirk my 
responsibilities as a health officiaL But 
can you imagine what would happen if 
a local-level agency started making its 
own policies about how to handle in-
dividual AIDS cases? We would run in-
to all sorts of inconsistencies, and it is 
inconsistency that leads to lawsuits. 

"O ur society does a decent job of try-
ing to balance those interests. Civil 
liberties have obviously made a lot of 
progress in the last few decades. It used 
to be that people with tuberculosis could 
literally be picked up off the streets and 
th rown into a sanitarium indefinitely. 
T he TB laws have long since been 
changed. With AIDS, it is even trickier. 
W e would all like things to move faster, 
but that's democracy- that's bureau-
cracy. That's the way it works." 

But others sense a more urgent need 
for action. The Reverend Paul Keane, 
a 1980 graduate of the Yale Divinity 
School who has played an active role in 
AIDS education issues in New Haven, 
has been concerned about Lana's pro-
gress for five months now. The pamph-
lets he helps write on topics like "Aids, 
Sex and You" are well-known to most 
Yale students. Keane has stridently 
criticized the state and local health 
departments for floundering in red tape 
while accomplishing nothing. "All the 
officials in this matter are ethically 
paralyzed," Keane argued. "They are 
falling back on all sorts of legal 
precedents that no longer apply in this 
case. We. are on the brink of a society 
that is virt~ally powerless to act on mat-
ters of moral concern. We're not talking 
about the private lives of gay men. 
We're talking about a woman whose 
business is exchanging body fluids. It is 
a public business, the merchandising of 
which may be fatal. And her recrea-
tional habit as an I. V. drug user is 
equal cause for concern." 

Dr. Alvin Novick, a Yale biology ~ 
professor who has been a leading figure 
in AIDS research and education in the 
Yale-New H aven community, has cer-
tain qualms with Keane's agenda. He 
believes that Keane, by focusing atten-
tion upon the more dramatic issue of an



**Title: The AIDS Case: A Clash of Priorities**
**Author: W. Hampton Silks**
**Page number(s): 19-20**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
AIDS-carrying prostitute, is diverting 
attention from the real problems. "That 
woman, if she exists, deserves our 
respect and confidentiality," said 
Novick. "So I don't like to speak about 
her. But Keane says it is important to 
warn people. What is he going to warn 
them about? Since there is no cure, 
what you are doing is putting a tremen-
dous amount of stress on a large 
number of people who may never have 
been exposed. What are you offering 
them- two or three years of hysteria? 


Besides, why should we waste time and 
emotional energy talking about this case 
when the overwhelming majority of the 
victims are gay men?" 

Keane, on the other hand, considers 
Novick's priorities to be misplaced and 
asserts that AIDS threatens the general 
public far more than Novick is willing 
to admit. "My concern is two-sided. 
First, I'm concerned about her welfare. 
I have heard from people in the com-
munity that this woman is being har-
~assed. This kind of thing puts her life 
an jeopardy. Some rival pimp could 
think that she is endangering business 
and could just make her disappear. My 
other concern is for the public, and par-
ticularly people who go to prostitutes. I 
know perfectly respectable people who 
do. I think it is shooting dirty pool not 
to alert men who frequent prostitutes." 

And, Keane strongly emphasizes that 
the last thing he wants is to have Lana 
quarantined or put in jail. If anyone 
were to arrest her, Keane says, he 
would be the first person to find her an 
attorney. But he believes that some-
thing should be done now. "Concerned 
• individuals ought to raise money so this 
woman can go on a prolonged vacation 
from the streets, with drug counsellors 
supervising her until a test can be for-
mulated that adequately determines 
whether she has AIDS. Can't society af-
ford that?" 

Keane himself has made several at-
tempts to raise money. He has written a 
letter to Tlu Yale Alumni Magazine in 
which he seeks benefactors for Lana. 
Last week he and Yale Chaplain John 
Vannorsdall scheduled a visit with Lana 
on her last morning at the hospital to 
discuss raising funds, but found that she 
had checked out early without explana-
tion. Keane also wrote President A. 
Bartlett Giamatti two letters in August 
warning him about the potential risks to 
the community and asking him to exert 
his "moral authority" to help Lana out 
of her predicament. "I propose that we 
(under your leadership) 
raise 
money from individuals, institutions 
and government agencies to pay this 
woman to stay off the streets," wrote 
Keane. "You are shepherd of a huge in-
stitution whose population contains 
hundreds of persons in the high risk 
categories for AIDS. You don't want a 
life-threatening disease thundering 
through your campus." 

Giamatti's response to Keane's re-
quest came in the words of Lindsey 
Kiang, the President's legal counsel. 
"We're looking at an issue that is beyond 
our control," Kiang argued. "It is out of 
our jurisdiction to handle the case of 
this woman. It is the responsibility of 
the Health Department to deal with this 
sort of thing. We have to assume that 
our public health officials are doing 
their job. Yale students, like any other 
adults, have to be responsible for their 
own actions. What is the University go-
ing to do, put up signs with photo-
graphs around campus warning that 
this person has AIDS? For Yale Univer-
sity to step in and get involved in this 
case would not only be an invasion of 
privacy; it would be an act of defiance 
against the state and would probably be 
unconstitutional." 

While Keane has found little solace in 
Yale's official position, he has also had 


little 
luck convincing the 
Health 
Department to rethink its policies on 
AIDS. The Department has neither the 
staff nor the funds to follow up on AIDS 
patients and locate their sexual contacts 
in the same way that it monitors syphilis 
cases. "I personally feel that we should do 
follow up work," admitted Stone. "But 
with the many illegal activities involved 
with AIDS- particularly the drug con-
nection- follow up would be a difficult 
and dangerous procedure. Obviously, 
we would have to work with the police. 

"Although the doctors assume that 
the prostitute will become stage three 
soon," continued Stone, "some people 
say they ought to lie and say that she 
has AIDS now rather than wait. If she 
became a verified AIDS case, I suppose 
we might be able to move on that infor-
mation." 

Yet until that time, Lana will remain 
on the streets, and all the questions 
about rights and risks will linger: What, 
if anything, should society do with a 
woman who is already involved in two 
illegal activities and who may be 
transmitting a deadly disease to people? 
Can the H ealth Department act on in-
complete medical evidence in a case like 
this? Or is it possible that frequenters of 
prostitutes have in a sense forfeited their 
right .to special public protection by 
willingly engaging in a criminal activity 
widely known to be associated with all 
sorts of communicable diseases? If one 
is prepared to single out prostitutes, 
then how long will it be before gay and 
bisexual men will also become targets in 
the public's cry for quarantine? By 
isolating one group, would the Health 
Department not be surrendering to the 
same alarmist attitudes and paranoia 
that it has been trying desperately to 
discourage in society? 

• 
W Hampton Silks, a senior in Ezra Stiles, is 
Editor-in-Chief of TNJ. 
Lana is a pseudonym.


**Title: Conservatism at Yale- The Old and the New**
**Author: Morris Panner**
**Page number(s): 21**

T
here has been much talk recently about the resurgence of conservative political 
thought on college campuses, and Yale has been no exception. What is the Yale 
Right? It is more than a few extremists on the fringe of social acceptability. Rather it is a 
growing political movement that uses the same techniques that liberals have successfully 
used in the past. 

In this issue we look first at the Party of the Right, the eccentric, high-brow debating 
society that generally disdains political activism. The article was written by an unlikely 
combination of people: 
David Bokman, a former chairman of the Liberal Party, and 
Bradford Berenson, a former recruiting director for the POR. 

In the second article we analyze a different kind of conservatism. The Yale College 
Republicans, the Yale Free Press and a handful of ideologues have begun to change the 
face of the Right at Yale. The author, TNJManaging Editor Morris Panner, spent the 
last two summers working in Washington, D.C. as a political fund-raiser for an array of 
H ouse and ·senate candidates. 



**Title: The Party of the Right· Yale's Intellectual Wunderkind?**
**Author: David Bokman and Brad Berenson**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Party members, raise your glass,
Drain the Green Cup as it passes
Hail, all merry lads and lasses
The Party of the Right!
Though we can't leap for classes
Stand opposed by soulless masses,
Yet our excellence surpasses
The future still looks bright


The silver chalice passes quickly
to the right at Mory's. The Green
Cup soothes the throats of 40 men
and women who have been toasting,
laughing and singing for hours. It has
been an evening of tradition and mar-
tyred monarchs, an evening filled with
jokes about the Reds and the bleeding
hearts, and songs about a Yale that is
no more. Outside, through the closed
Front Room windows along York
Street, the spectacle may make a
momentary impression. Some people
may think these revelers are just odd-
balls. Some people may think they are
conservatives without a cause. Others
may think they are fascists who wound
up at the wrong university, at the
wrong time and in the wrong country.
But few people at Yale pay much atten-
tion to the Party of the Right.

Some 20 years ago, the Liberal Party
also had wasting sessions at Mory's,
drinking Red Cups and passing them to
the left, of course. Today most liberals,
and in fact most Yale students, have
abandoned such traditions. But on an
average of once a month the Party of
the Right still convenes here for these
long evenings of wit and song. To
understand this eccentric group, one
has to consider its traditions, its color
and its critics. Most people never try.
Mike Fischer, who won the Political
Union's Freshman Prize Debate two
years ago, began his Yale career as a
liberal. "But much to my chagrin," he
remembers, "I found that the Party of
the Right was the only place that had a
real commitment to the search for
truth." Fischer soon joined the POR
while still serving as Floor Leader of the
Left in the Political Union. Today he is


Marie Cunningham, Secretary-treasurer, and Victor Caston, Chairman at a recent Party meeting.


a traditionalist conservative.

Fischer's conversion illustrates one of
the most surprising features about the
POR: the Party does not expect its
members to subscribe to a conservative
political persuasion as a criterion for
membership. It insists, somewhat whimsically, that "we don't care what you
think, only that you think, because if
you do think, pretty soon you'll think as
we think." In fact, the Party is often
severely divided in its debates, and its
members espouse a variety of political
ideologies. The largest portion of the
membership consists of traditionalists
and libertarians, but the Party always
includes a smattering of monarchists,
fascists, liberals, socialists and even an
occasional Trotskyite. Fischer, the con-
verted lefty, still enjoys "having liberals
to argue with" and feels "the liberals we
elect are the best."

But of all the Party's philosophical
divisions, the conflict between libertarians and traditionalists (Libs and
Trads) has led to the most dramatic
confrontations.
In
1976 Chairman
Wendell Raleigh Bird conducted what
is now referred to as the Party's Second
Purge (the first occurred in the late
'60s). Bird, an avowed traditionalist
now with the Moral Majority, accused
many Party members of "academic
dishonesty, marijuana bribes, burgeoning cohabitation, Nazi songs, and
musical bedrooms," and used "the absolute power of the Chairman" to expel
30 prominent members. These
members included such notables as
Richard Brookhiser, senior editor of the
National Review, and Andrei Navrozov,
who is now infamous for his battle with
the University over the status of the Yale
Literary Magazine.

Despite such bitter conflicts, the
POR is usually united in its dedication
to decorous, intellectual debate. Sometimes humorous and sometimes serious,
the weekly philosophical debates are the
Party's main function. Topics range
from "Resolved: Philadelphia is the
Hope of the West" to "Resolved:
Reason Cannot Withstand the Fall of
God" to "Resolved: The Vietnam War
was a Noble Cause." POR member
Farced Zakaria maintains that the Party
is "the only intelligent forum at Yale
where ideas are being analyzed beyond
their public posture or the rhetoric of
The New York Times." Former Chairman
Sandip Bhattacharji says, "The people
in the Party spend far more time thinking about political issues than the
average person at Yale. Too often,
political debate on campus, when it occurs, simply revolves around a few
facts."

The Party is also united in its dedication to the many traditions, whether in-
ane or inviolate, which have colored its
past. "We take tradition seriously,"
observes
present Chairman Victor
Caston, "but at the same time we have a
number of traditions that are clearly
ludicrous." For example, all new Party
members are entitled, upon election, to
choose a new middle name with which
to sign the Party's guest book. Thus
Garrett Spitzer becomes Garrett Faber-
tignarius Spitzer at Party
events.

Members also hold titles such as
Chancellor of Cards and Games,
Purveyor of Tobacco to the Executive
Committee and Bearer of the Imperial
Inkblot. And two offices are reserved
for freshmen: the Napafer (awarded to
the most obnoxious new member) and
the Manciple (who must run to WaWa's
for sundry items such as ice or onion
dip at the behest of the Chancellor).

A POR toasting session is a full-scale
exercise in tradition. It opens with the
Chairman's rendition of the last words
of King Charles I, words uttered before
the monarch's execution at the hands of
Cromwell's army. To the Party, Charles
I is a symbol of rightful authority
usurped by the "will of the people" only
to be replaced by something worse.
"Most people in the Party now would
concede that Charles was a fairly rotten
monarch," admits Bhattacharji. "But his
speech before his execution expresses a
rather profound and wise synthesis of
the Party's perspectives." After the


de co bo b

speech, the Secretary-Treasurer follows
with a reverent recitation of the names
of all the kings and queens of England,
starting with ninth century Egbert and
concluding with Elizabeth, "long may
she reign."

Aside from these monthly toasting
sessions, the POR calendar is marked
by a number of traditional events. In
the fall there is the Orgy, a supposedly
libidinous drinkfest which is actually a
subdued,
black-tie cocktail
party.
Throughout the year, there are Cards
and Games nights at which members
play chess, Risk and even five-card
poker. In February the Party holds a
remarkably well-attended alumni banquet. And in the spring Party members
climb to the top of East Rock to hold a
picnic and burn a biography of the
hated Oliver Cromwell.

The Party is mostly self-effacing
about these traditions. "Our humor is
somewhat more sarcastic and iconoclastic than the general humor at Yale,"
says Zakaria, "and that's why some people tend to take it so badly. It's very
much British in tradition." For example, in the middle of a February night
last year, a group of POR members sang
a Party song called "Stomping Out the
Reds" to Dan Berkowitz, a TA for Professor
Wolfgang Leonhard's Soviet
History course:

(final verse)
Bayonets bright gleaming, Shermans
forward steaming
Hear the Commies screaming underneath
our treads
Scorn their masses teeming, and their
traitors scheming
We're the West redeeming, stomping
out the Reds!

Apart from their right-wing revelries
and
left-field
pranks,
the
POR
members observe a number of more
serious traditions. The Party has two
symbols of power: the Chairman's gold
medallion (an authentic piece minted
several hundred years ago to commemorate Charles I) and the Chairman's gavel (a somewhat less impressive
object machine-crafted by a local trophy
company about 30 years ago). Both
symbols are regarded with the same
respect that is held for the Chairman.
"The POR Chairman is the Party's
King," says Bhattacharji, "Not as a
despot, but rather as a philosopher king
or enlightened monarch."

Despite its many traditions, however,
the POR is not exactly the party of the
Old Yale milieu that it is made out to
be. For an admittedly reactionary
organization, the POR is quick to point
out that it has been notably responsive
to social change. The POR claims to
have elected the first women leader of
any undergraduate organization, Gail
Schwartz. Further, black POR member
Kevin Thomas was instrumental in
drafting the constitution for the Black
Student Alliance at Yale in the '70s.
And the POR has had four Jewish
Chairmen in the last six years.

In addition, the present party has a
diverse socio-economic composition.
Though it does include landed nobility
from countries such as Italy and India,
some of its members are of strictly
working-class lineage. One of the POR's
most vocal members, John Zmirak,
proudly asserts, "My father is a door-
man for a Park Avenue building not
far from the homes of many Yale
liberals."

Still, the manners and behavior of
POR members has led many critics to
describe the Party as a bizarre, reactionary cult. Detractors argue that the
Party members are escapists. They
want to escape what they perceive as the



**The Yale Party of the Right**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
*'-rty. 
liberalism, 
anti-intellectualism, shal-
lowness and decadent social mores of 
the Yale student body. They want to 
escape 
impersonal 
institutions and 
amorphous crowds. They want to enter 
a cozy hall of mirrors where they can 
see 
faces 
and 
hear voices which 
welcome them, which assure them that 
they arc somebody, which assure them 
that community and fraternity can still 
be created in the midst.of modernity. 

Most of the criticism· about the Party 
involves 
its 
recruitment of Yale 
freshmen. 
Richard 
Sorkin, 
who 
dropped out of the POR after being 
elected its Chief Whip during his 
freshman year, now sees the Party as a 
social crutch for lonely freshman. "The 
POR seeks out and finds social misfits," 
Sorkin says, "those freshmen who were 
obviously more intelligent but less 
socially accepted than the average high 
school senior. Suddenly, the POR tells 
these people that 'It's cool to be an in-
tellectual' and actually assures them that 
thev're better than everyone else.'" 
Ira Shapiro, lormer Chairman of the 
Tory Party (the POR's bnter enemy in 
the Political Union), describes the 
recruitment process as "love-bombing" 
and Jon Edward Lendon, who was ap-
proached by the Party last year. readily 
agrees. Lendon recalls that POR mem-
bers "would politely listen to what you 
said, regardless of how stupid it was, 
and would pretend to be interested. 
Having these impressive upperclassmen 
tell you how splendid you are is certain-
ly flattering." In the end, though, Len-
don found the recruitment process "ex-
tremely calculating" and decided not to 
join. "I soon got calls from former 
Chairmen," he explains, "individuals I 
hadn't even met. It became obvious that 
they were just processing me." 
According to Shapiro the POR has a 
tremendous psychological effect on 
those freshmen who do join. "There is 
an institutionalized arrogance which 
they all share. They really begin to 
believe that only they can think in-
telligently. 
Alex Whiting, Chairman of the Pol-
itical Union's Liberal Party, says that 
"the POR flatters lonely freshmen by 
giving them the impression that they'll 
walk out of Old Campus with a coat 
and tie on Friday night and suddenly 
become the object of jealousy." And, in 
his resignation letter, Sorkin told the 
POR Chairman that "there is no senior 
member whose ego has not been fueled, 
whose insecurities have not been fed, 
whose obsession with power has not 
been encouraged by this organization." 
Sorkin points out that only people who 
are members of the POR can sign a 
middle name in the guest book at party 
events. If a non-member signs a middle 
name, it is crossed out. 
Alex Whiting agrees that "the overall 
effect of the POR is negative because 
the self-importance it breeds is false . 
The members have pride, but no hu-
mility." (POR member Mike Fischer, 
for example, says that "the POR is an 
organization designed to attract the best 
and the brightest at Yale, the intellec-
tual wundokind of the Yale community.") 
"The POR is just like a cult," says 
Sorkin. "You become brainwashed to do 
stupid things on an interpersonal level. 
You become insensitive to other people, 
contentious and arrogant. 1f you're 
disliked by others, the POR tells you 
that it's because you're better, not 
because you're strange. You soon get 
positive reinforcement for causing con-
troversy. Doing something obnoxious 
brings the group's acceptance and the 
reinforcement of your new self-image. 
You begin to believe that people are 
upset with you because you're doing 
something great, demonstrating your 
superiority." 

Liberal Party Chairman Whiting 
argues that the majority of the members 
of the POR "limit their activities and 
their friends to the group. This is not at 
all true of the other parties in the 
Union." For many POR members this 
limitation carries over into their adult 
lives. The Party elects its members, in 
its own words, for "life, at least." It is 
not uncommon to find POR members 
marrying each other after graduation. 
"POR members are insecure on their 
own," says Whiting, "but the Party 
cultivates their insecurity. Its members 
don't have to tackle the social aspects of 
Yale because they create their own pro-
tected world of mutual flattery." 

Of course, POR members describe 
their behavior quite differently. If they 
are obnoxious or insular, they see it as a 
, response to a hostile Yale community. 
Former POR Chairman Bhattacharji, 
for example, explains that "some people 
in the Party tend to be very defensive 
and battle the prejudice of others with 
their own prejudice. They feel that peo-
ple who are critical have nothing of any 
importance to say." 

But many POR members themselves 
recognize that these problems are real. 
Mike Fischer recognizes that "the Party 
can have a very bad effect on parasitic 
people who will use it as an organiza-
tion that they can cling to isolate and 
themselves with. But that's not the pur-
pose of the POR, and it is not the way it 
usually works." 

John Zmirak agrees that the POR 
provides some members with "a comfor-
ting background in which to play out 
their neuroses." But he sees the Party's 
behavior pardy as a response to its 
negative image at Yale. "I think the Par-
ty gets tired of being ridiculed and 
sometimes purposely tries to live up to 
the image that's being ridiculed." 

As for the Party's "institutionalized 
arrogance," Chairman Victor Caston 
explains that "putting oneself in intellec-
tual combat and 
scoring victories 
naturally leads to a great deal of con-
fidence. People who find no acceptance 
anywhere sometimes find tolerance in 
the Party. But in fact, very few 
members of the Party of the Right hold 
fanatical views. Most members are 
quite willing to argue with anyone. 


Labelling the POR 'fascist', on the other 
hand, is willful ignorance. It's all too 
easy to label your opponents oddballs or 
extremists." 

But some individual members of the 
Party do hold extreme views . .John 
Zmirak, a self-described fascist, says, "I 
like the idea of coming in and reversing 
social change, if necessary by force." 
One social change Zmirak is particular-
ly eager to reverse is the growing accep-
tance of homosexual lifestyles. "If I were 
POR C hairman, I wouldn't tell (gay 
members) when events were being held 
. . . and that tends to discourage atten-
dance." 

Last year, during GLAD Week, 
while many gay students wore pink 
triangle 
buttons, 
Zmirak proudly 
sported a pink trian gle with a black 
slash through it. One evening in CCL 
another student approached him and 
said, "I'm offended by your button; 
homosexuality is just an alternative 
lifestyle." Zmirak 
replied, "So is 
schizophrenia" and was promptly spat 
upon by the other student. A week 
later he was beaten up by two in-
dividuals at a Saybrook SAC party. 
"I have well-reasoned ideas," argues 
Zmirak. "I have principles from which 
my politics follow." But other POR 
members take strong exception to 
Zmirak's views. M ike Fischer says, 
"The rest of us find those views repug-
nant and disgusting." And Chairman 
Caston finds Zmirak to be "an excep-
tionally rude human being who has 
very little sophistication about him. I 
can't see in any way that this would be 
supported by the Party structure. The 
institution leans very heavily against 
such acts of intolerance. Whenever 
anyone in the Party has acted un-
gentlemanly 
in 
public, 
we 
have 
reprimanded him." 

Zmirak though, points out that "there 
are at least three or four members of the 
Party who share my views. In fact, 12 of 
30 members voted against the election 
of a recent petitioner largely because he 
was flagrantly homosexual. The Party 
also has many extreme libertarians-
individuals who argue for child por-
nography and free heroin use." 

Yet many members, like Fischer, are 
wary of including extremists jn the Par-
ty. "There's.too much willingness to ac-
cept the views of the few extremists that 


**Title: The Rise of the Right**
**Author: Morris Panner**
**Page number(s): 29-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
They came to Yale with their $15 checks and their briefcases to learn the subtle art of campaign success. They came with their convictions about supply-side economics and peace through strength. But most important, the 20 college students from Connecticut College, Trinity and Wesleyan came to Yale with their steadfast belief in the Republican Party. 

The College Republicans call it the "Field man's School." It is where they build their cadres and plan for what they hope will be another GOP victory next year. From November 12 to 14, one week before the Yale-Harvard game, they brought their "school" to Yale for the first time. 

Since 1981 these campaign workshops have served as the linchpin in the College Republicans' nationwide recruiting drive, which has been a success by anyone's standards. The CRs claim to have enlisted 127,000 members at 1,100 campuses, and at Yale they've signed up almost 150 members, up from six only a year and a half ago. 

Presiding over the school at Yale was Paul Erickson '84, a smooth and articulate salesman for his cause and one of the foremost campus Republican organizers in the country. He lectured from a 380-page instruction manual prepared by the College Republican National Committee (CRNC) and he offered everything from advice on how to start your own conservative college newspaper to an evaluation of supposedly leftist groups on the country's campuses. After the weekend sessions were over and everyone had gone home, the Republican National Committee back in Washington soon had the names of 20 new campus leaders to plug into its computerized "talent bank." 

Less than a year from now they'll be out of the classroom campaigning on campuses, but now the College Republicans are sitting and learning-planning a strategy. "The key is to train people for the '84 elections," said Mike Fischer '85, Chairman of the Yale College Republicans. "The Fieldman's Schools are an important part of this. We bring people from all over Connecticut to Yale and teach them how to campaign. Each individual convert is hard to achieve, but we're growing. By next fall we'll be able to field an army of 200 people anywhere in the state within 24 hours." 

The Yale College Republicans are only the most conspicuous component of a larger trend toward right-wing activism at Yale. It used to be that conservatism and activism were mutually exclusive on campus. But now one can find conservative students opposing the standard liberal line at rallies and demonstrations. One can read their numerous letters in campus publications. They even have their own newspaper at Yale, though it's not published very often. National commentators are saying that the clock is turning back, while more and more Yale alumni are welcoming what they, too, perceive as the resurgence of the Right. 

But for all the talk, the so-called Yale Right has not done all that much. The Yale CRs were unsuccessful in securing a victory for Slade Mead, their candidate in the local aldermanic race last month. The Yale Free Press, the conservative tabloid which began in October of 1982 with pretensions of being a weekly publication, has managed to put out only two short issues in the first three months of this year even with outside contributions amounting to over $5,000. Still, the very existence of a Yale Right has drawn considerable media attention here and around the country. The Yale Literary Magazine controversy was featured on 60 Minutes last summer, the Free Press's five-day trip to Afghanistan was covered by The National Review and the Mead-Stearns race was billed as a classic left-right confrontation in The New York Times in November. All the publicity over so little substance has led some people to wonder if the Yale Right is anything more than a media creation. 

But for the leaders of the Yale CRs, the resurgence of the Right on this campus is no illusion, but a dream come true. Erickson first came to Yale in the spring of '82 as a transfer student from the University of South Dakota. "There was a rumor about the College Republicans," he recalled. "But there was nothing there for real. The few who were here sat around in coats and ties. They were the stereotypical elitist politicos. You can't create activism when there aren't any activists. But now we have learned that we have to roll up our sleeves and get down and get dirty. Now, the CRs have risen up and become the SDS of the '80s on the right." 

Unlike the SDS of the '60s, though, the college Right of the '80s relies more on computers than protest songs and embraces the political establishment like a long-lost brother. In 1981, under Erickson's leadership, the CRs hired 25 college students full-time and split them up into five regional teams. "We gave each group a 16-person van and a constant supply of literature and said, 'Go forth and multiply,'" explained Erickson, who engineered the whole event from the CR headquarters in Washington where he served as full-time field director. Three months and $187,000 later, the CR recruiters had been to 43 states and had returned with 17,000 "converts." 

The whole project revolved around a series of Fieldman's Schools-like the one at Yale-which the recruitment teams held at each university they visited. The schools offered basic campaign and membership recruitment techniques and certified students as Republican political organizers. "These techniques are used by both sides and whichever side uses them more effectively will win," explained Erickson. 

During the three months of the recruiting drive, the schools graduated 1100 students. "If we need talented volunteers for a race anywhere around the country," said Erickson, "we can tell the candidate exactly who to contact." 

The Yale CRs have shown their renewed enthusiasm in their weekly Thursday night meetings in Linsley-Chit with a regular crowd of between 15 and 25. "We used to be moribund," explained Mike Fischer. "The group was run by liberal Weicker-type Republicans back then. Now, we offer an organization for people who take their politics seriously and for people who take Ronald Reagan seriously." 

The CRs' hard-core right-wing stand paid off in last fall's membership drive. Using slick pamphlets and posters provided by the CRs' national offices, Fischer and Erickson recruited 75


**Title: freshmen f, the CR or the grou**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
freshmen f, 
the CR 
or the grou 
S 
. 
wome s also gained a r urpnsingly 
n membe 
arge numbe 
' 
notion that th rs despite th 
r of 
not adeq 
e Republican ; 
popular 
cerns n.r uatdely address w 
arty does 
• 
1 0U 
omen' 
CR lin " 
on t have to b 
s con-
Vice-chae~ explained Liz uDy the entire 
n.r 
trperson r 
enny '8S 
I ou will 
,or the Yal 
never fi d 
e C R 
supports all of 
m 
a candidat 
s. 
have a h d 
.your concer 
e who 
those are ar time with th ns: i guess I 
with a lot common to an ~ JO ~s, but 
phasize t~:tw~men. I do~'t :~~tzation 
Women' . 
cause it is 
. to em-
the Yal: ~sues j ust don't no btg deal. 
issues are n ollege Republi~~me up for 
th Not only ~':,~;r the age:~ •. Th= 
e touchy s 
Yale cha t 
· 
their 1981 OCtal issues but thp erCtgnore 
natio a1 
e 
R · 
cago decided 
n 
c~:mvention i 
Cs ~~ 
ments abo 
not to mclud 
ht-
their nat' ut birth control o e any state-
r 
10nal 
r abort· 
racturin 
h 
agenda. "It 
ton m 
g t e coal' · 
s not w 
explained E . 
ttton on th 
. ort 
concerned 
~tckson. "We ose ~mts," 
issues." 
wtth economic r:ndnmarily 
Defen 
defense 
catal 
se tssues hav 
year'~s~r much of th: :~7«:d as the 
protestin u~ ':"bile the Lef:vtty of this 
the launc~ ~ e mvasion of G was busily 
Groton ~ng of Trident s ~ena~a and 
fielded ' 
onnecticut 
thu marmes at 
counte d 
e Yal c 
events. "W I r- emonstrat' 
Rs 
d 
e earned 
tons at bo h 
emonstrat' 
about th 
t 
(October 2~o)n at nine thate Gren~da 
demonstrat' ' and we had 
mornmg 
plained F' tohn going by 
a counter-
d d
ISC er •J 
noon " 
e tcated 
t only tak 
ex-
Plus we 
people to get th. es a few 
caught all th 
mgs goi 
press even th 
e attention f ng. 
about 20 of 
ough there 
o the 
hundred 
us compared 
were only 
Beside:" the .other sidet~ the several 
th 
workm al 
pa s of student g . ~:mg the stand 
more so h. . 
acuvtsm th 
ard 
promott thtst.tcated politic'al e ChRs use 
etr c 
met od 
echmque . 
oncerns. 0 
s to 
tion of pol1i~i Washington is~~ '7,pular 
norman 
c~ foundation 
e . orma-
interest y assoctated with Is whtch are 
foundatigrou~s. Erickson arge ~pecial 
U 
on 
10 
C 
orgamzed 
mted S d 
onnect' 
a 
tion AI htu ents of Am .'cut 
called 
t ough 
enca Fo 
prevents it fi 
the group's 
unda-
particular rom fmanciall 
tax status 
specific t'd canl didate 
it y backing any 
eo ogical 
can su 
t e foundati 
positions L 
pport 
on raised $6. 
ast year 
,000 from 


**Title: Yale's New Right**
**Author: Morris Panner**
**Page number(s): 34**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The Yale College Republicans (CRs) have made a great deal of noise this year.  Their pronouncements have filled the pages of the Yale Daily News and other campus publications.  They are, however, a very small minority at Yale, and this year's test of their strength in the student government election proved rather disappointing.  Their candidate for the student body presidency received only about one-third of the vote.

The CRs's activities have been covered widely in the media, yet the number of "hard-core" conservatives at Yale remains small. The Free Press, the CRs' publication, has experienced major organizational problems which greatly diminish its campus effectiveness. If the Yale CRs intend to be anything more than a human interest story in the upcoming November elections, they still must confront these serious challenges.  Their toughest battle will be persuading a predominantly moderate and liberal student body to support the hard-line conservatism of Ronald Reagan.  The CRs' leader, Mark Fischer, however, remains optimistic, believing that the recent election was only a "tip of the iceberg."  Next November's election will be a more definitive test of their power.  One student involved in the recent campaign, Arnold Gonzales '84, has doubts about the CRs' ability to significantly affect campus politics, suggesting that their influence is largely a matter of "making a lot of noise."  He also points out that many of the people who worked on the campaign were Democrats or moderates, who may have been motivated more by their dislike of the Democratic candidate than by a belief in the CRs' political platform.  Gonzales maintains that the claim that the student body is becoming more conservative is a "fallacy."  Others involved in the campaign seemed to agree that students would not give up their money for conservative politics, saying, "After all, you can't die for the dollar."


**Title: Ahead of the Charles**
**Author: Bee-per Schiavone**
**Page number(s): 35**

INKIE WAS AN EXPERIMENT
OF MOTHER'S MASOCHISM.
FRANNIE PREFERRED TO FREE
SUSIE WHOSE SULLEN BECAUSE SAME AS
KATHLEEN'S THIN
FASHION.
MY CLEVER CELEBRITY MIMICS.

The Head of the Charles, October 27, 
1983 
Mass.

**Title: Basketball Bounces Back**
**Author: Chris Ryan**
**Page number(s): 37-39**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Basketball Bounces Back 
The last time the Ivy League basketball 
trophy spent the winter in New Haven, 
John F. Kennedy was President and 
john Glenn was preparing for his space 
mission. Women weren't attending Yale 
College in those days, and most of the 
players on this year's basketball team 
weren't even born. That was 22 years 
ago. 

But 1984 may be different. Many 
basketball writers- including those at 
USA Today, Ivy Sports journal and the 
NCAA News-think that Yale will take 
the Ivy championship. The team is big-
ger and more talented than ever before. 
Six players are 
6'6~ or taller, and 
freshman center Ricky Ewing, who 
stands 6' 11 ", is the tallest player in the 
history of Yale basketball. Yale senior 
Butch Graves has scored more points 
in the last two seasons than any other 
player in the Ivy League. After the 
worst Yale football season in 111 
years- and after the poorest fall sports 
showing in decades- the athletic 
department may be looking toward the 
basketball team for redemption this 
winter. 

Basketball? Yale hasn't been to a na-
tional basketball playoff since 1962. 
And for that matter, basketball has 
never figured very prominently in the 
scheme of Yale athletics. Football has 
always 
reigned at 
Yale. 
Modern 
American football started here, and 
hardly a student passes through the 
university who doesn't at least once 
make the pilgrimage to the Yale Bowl, 
walk through the columnar monument 
to Walter Camp and hail the modern 
Frank Merriwell. Yet few students walk 
to Payne Whitney to see the basketball 
team. For most, basketball separates 
one football season from the next. The 
1984 team may change all that. 

A few weeks ago, Yale head basket-
ball coach Tom Brennan stood in an 
empty Payne Whitney amphitheater. 
He turned his head slowly, taking in all 
the unfilled seats, 3100 of them. Then 
he gazed at a darkened scoreboard. "I 
want this place to be a pit," he said. He 
pressed his fist into the palm of his op-
posite hand and clenched them into a 
single mass. "I just can't wait for the first 
time we get a screaming crowd in here, 
sell this place out." 

O..ign by TonY, Reese 
"I adapt myself to the staff. 
· ·You can't be afraid to utilize 
people. But I'm still the guy 
in charge., 
Chris Ryan/The New Jou,.,.l 

Tom Brennan has aspirations for this 
squad. "I would consider myself a suc-
cess if we win an Ivy title," said Bren-
nan. "Coach Brennan is an all or 
nothing coach," said Bill jacob, one of 
six seniors on this year's team. "He 
wants us to make the NCAA tourna-
ment. He can't be satisfied with third. 
Coach Brennan is confident and cocky 
but he's as good at what he does as Vin-
cent Scully and Donald Kagan are at 
what they do." 

Tom Brennan, 33, is a tall, thin 
Irishman with straight brown hair 
parted neatly on the left and dark eyes 
that sink into an elongated face. His 
favorite outfit is a blue blazer with tan 
pants and a 
white, 
Oxford cloth 
button-down shirt. He knots his blue 
linen tie with a half windsor. "Coach 
Brennan always wears a coat and tie," 
said team captain Butch Graves: "That 
gives the program a look of class, pro-
fessionalism." 

Brennan came to Yale in July 1982. 
His arrival was the result of an "ex-
haustive search" by the Yale Athletic 
Department. Ninety other applicants 
vied for the job, but Yale athletic direc-
tor Frank Ryan settled on Brennan. 
Before coming to New Haven, he spent 
five years as an assistant coach at 
William and Mary. He also coached at 
Villanova, Fairleigh Dickinson, and 
Seton Hall. 

Tom Brennan grew up in Phillips-
burg, New Jersey, a small, blue-collar 
town on the New Jersey-Pennsylvania 
border. He is the classic local-boy-
made-good. In high school, he was a 
basketball star at Phillipsburg Catholic 
Academy. He scored more points than 
any other player in the school's history, 
and he won a basketball scholarship to 
the University of Georgia. 

His college playing was adequate, 
but by no means outstanding. He did 
win the Georgia Leadership Award for 
Basketball as a senior, but what people 
remembered about Brennan was his ag-
gressiveness. He recalled the day he had 
to guard LSU's Pete Maravkh, the 
NCAA all-time leading scorer. "I was 
determined to stay all over him," said 


--- Page 38 ---

Brennan. And he did. He even followed 
him into the LSU huddle during a time-
out. 

Brennan's first task as head coach was 
to h ire assistants. He got M ike M ucci 
from Robert Morris College in August 
1982 and then picked Steve Yarnell 
from Cornell a month later. 

Yarnell is a short man with neatly 
combed, jet black hair and a hard, lined 
face. He comes to practice every after-
noon dressed in uniform: a dark blue 
Champion sweatshirt and metallic blue 
slacks with perfect creases that drape 
across the laces of his leather Nikes. H is 
nickname is Sarge. 

"Sarge is a great X and 0 guy," said 
Brennan. "He really knows basketball. 
He's very intense." At practices Yarnell 
controls Yale's defensive alignment. For 
five minutes every day, he runs a foot-
work drill. "Face me," he yelled. 
"Retreat. 
Retreat. 
Advance. · Shot. 
That's too 
slow. 
Again. 
R etreat. 
Retreat. Swing. Advance. Swing. Ad-
vance. You're too slow." Sarge stops the 
whole drill when one play is out of step. 

Mike Mucci hardly says a word at 
practice. "He's the most organized and 
sincere person I know," said Brennan. 
"Every staff needs a Mike Mucci. A lot 
of times after Sarge rips a guy, Mucci is 
over there patting him on the back. I 
like using them both at practice. I adapt 
myself to the staff. You can't be afraid to 
utilize people. But I'm still the guy in 
charge." 

Brennan had only been in charge for 
two months when he first met his 
players. Because he was hired in July, 
he had no chance to recruit before the 
1982-83 season. T here were 11 return-
ing players, but none were taller than 
6'7". 

But Brennan was undaunted. He set 
out to change the Yale image, and that 
meant changing Yale's style on the 
court. He junked the slow, methodical 
game- which former head coach Ray 
Carazo had favored- for a faster, more 
open one. Carazo's teams had been 
basketball craftsmen, following a low-
risk game plan calculated to set up the 
easy shots. Brennan's teams would be 
workers, perpetually in motion and car-
rying out their tasks at a ruthless pace. 

''Coach 
Brennan 
was 
an 
ideal 
choice," said Jacob. "The program 
needed someone to combat the stagna-
tion." 

Off the court Brennan is an executive: 
he devises strategies and he implements 
them. But at games, he is different. 
Brennan stalks from the center line to 
the end of the court, screaming at his 
players, orchestrating the crowd's cheer-
ing, and badgering the officials. H is 
arms swing, and his head cocks in dif-
ferent directions. "C'mon Butch, right 
side. Attaboy." A few Yale baskets, and 
Brennan is rolling. His legs are nimble, 
and he runs with his players. A referee's 
whistle that breaks the flow sends him 
jerking in disgust. his arms swing in cir-
cular motions. many reporters at the 
courtside press row have come perilous-
ly close to Brennan's right hook. 

The reporters have also learned to 
watch out for Brennan's coke. Every 
game Brennan drinks two or three 
16-ounce cokes; but he rarely ever 
finished 
them. 
He finishes 
about 
12 ounces and then sets the cup down 
on the press table next to the bench. But 
the first time a call goes against Yale, 
Brennan slams his fist on the table and 
splashes the remaining four ounces in 
every direction. Tl}e reporters pull ou t 
their handkerchiefs, dab their papers 
and suits, and return their phone 
receivers to the hooks. It happens every 
game. 

"I'm strange as a coach," said Bren-
nan. "The people and the situations are 
what make basketball exciting for me. 
Sometimes I wonder if I'm competitive 
enough. Basketball should be a fun ex-
perience. I'm never gonna take it 
seriously. 

"I think I'm gonna last in this 
business because winning is euphoric," 
said Brennan, "and losing I can take. 
Losing bothers me for that evening. It 
hurts when you put forth the effort we 
do, and it's not rewarded. It really 
hurts. Last year after we lost a game in 
Florida, I cried in the locker room. I 
cried like a baby. I felt our guys had put 
out the effort and had been ch eated by 
some bad ofTJ.ciating. But I shake it off. 
Coaching doesn't scare me. I'm not 
afraid to lose it. Even though I do it for 
a living, it's a part of me, not the 
whole." 

The other part of Brennan's life is his 
family. "One thing that concerns me 
about coaching," he said, "is the effect it 
has on my children. I don't ever want 
them to think that I'm going to Jose my 
job because the team lost. I don't want 
that kind of pressure on them. They 
shouldn't hM¥e to be objective. T hey 
should just want to win. I've never 
outgrown that myself." 

"We're 
his second 
family," 
said 
Graves. "He never tu rns his back on us. 
He makes 
people 
feel 
wanted. 
I 
remember we were having a tailgate out 
at the Bowl last year. It was after the 
first game Yale had won. This group of 
retarded kids came by, and one of them 
was screaming 'Yale, Yale.' Coach Bren-
nan called out to this kid: 'Hey, do you 
love Yale?' And the kid yelled : 'Yeah, I 
love Yale.' Coach 
took 
off the Yale sweatshirt he was wearing 
and handed it to the kid. H e said, 'If 


--- Page 39 ---

you love Yale, you keep this. This is 
yours, buddy.' I never saw a happier 
kid. He was clutching that sweatshirt 
like a million dollars. It was freezing 
out, but Coach Brennan didn't care. If 
it made someone's life happier, he 
would do it." 

Despite Yale's third place finish in the 
Ivy League, Brennan did not coach a 
winn ing team. He has never coached a 
winning team. Yale won 12 and lost 14 
last year; even Ray Carazo's 13-13 
mark in 1981-82 was better. Why all the 
hoopla over a losing team? 

"So much is confidence," said junior 
forward J eb Boasberg. "We really feel 
Coach Brennan's confidence in us." 

"H e's gotten us over the biggest 
hump," added Chris Kelly, another 
junior forward. "We know we can win 
the Ivy cham pionship." 

Brennan has also done some off-
season work to strengthen this Yale 
team. He brought in five high school 
stars to shore up Yale's short front line. 
Three of Brennan's recruits stand 6'8" 
or taller. 

Center Ricky Ewing was Brennan's 
biggest catch. Ewing was a standout 
performer at the University School in 
Nashville, and was wooed by big 
basketball schools like Virginia and 
Georgetown. But Ewing passed over 
their scholarship offers for four years at 
Yale. "I most definitely would not have 
e here if I didn't like the ~~~~~~W~h~a~
t ~c;a~n~~~~ ;.;_..-______________ 
_;_~~~~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~~!!!!!' 

Coaching doesn't scare me. 
I'm not afraid to lose it. Even 
though I do it for a living, it's 
a part of me, not the whole." 
Chris Ryan/The New Journal 

Ewing said. "When Coach Brennan 
came to visit me, he was very honest. 
He told me that there was no guarantee 
that I would get into Yale. He said he 
thought I had great potential and that I 
needed to look at Yale more closely and 
that with hard work and time I could 
play very well for Yale. John Thompson 
(Georgetown's head coach) caught me 
off guard. The first thing he said to me 
was 'I want to win an NCAA title. 

After that visit Brennan left Ewing to 
Mike Mucci. "Coach Mucci was a lot 
easier to talk to than other coaches," 
Ewing recalled. "He d id not appear to 
be overly confident. H e recruited me at 
his own pace. H e showed me what the 
Yale program had to offer and what 
Yale University had. T here was no 
pressure. I got too much pressure from 
a lot of other schools." 

Recruiting is often where champion-
ships are won and lost. Coaches must 
not only sell the school to the player but 
also to his parents. Brennan has his own 
lines to sell recruits on Yale. "You start 
with an advantage," he said. "When 
you're from Yale, you're going in with a 
Cadillac, not a lemon. I tell guys about 
what a challenge it is to build a win ning 
tradition here. And I tell them we have 
a great university, but that nobody 
rides for free. I tell them it's not easy. I 
lay out my credibility. I don't try to 
paint a rosy picture." 

Yet for the first time in two decades, 
the Yale basketball outlook is rosy. It's 
an outlook Brennan relishes: "People 
live to be in the situation we're in. 
W hen they all come to the gym for a b ig 
game, why do they come? Because 
they'd all like to be playing. I'd like to be 
in this situation all the time. R ight now, 
we're having a ball." 

• 
Tnpp Monts, a senior in Silliman College, 
was the Yale correspondent for Ivy Sports 
Journal 



**Title: Two New fro.m Yale**
**Author: Richard Powell**
**Page number(s): 41**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Two New fro.m Yale 
The Trans-Atlantic Africa 
Richard Powell 
Flash of the Spin't: African and Afro-
American Art and Philosophy by Robert 
Farris Thompson 
1983 Random House. $19.95. 317 pp. 
In 1968 Robert Farris Thompson, pro-
fessor of Art History at Yale and current 
master of Timothy Dwight College, 
mounted an exhibition for New York's 
Museum of Primitive Art, entitled 
"African and Afro-American Art: The 
Transatlantic Tradition." In this exhibi-
tion Professor Thompson juxtaposed 
West African works of art with art ob-
jects from Brazil, Surinam, Haiti and 
other countries in the western 
t:emisphere. His purpose in bringing 
together these seemingly divergent art 
regions was two-fold. First, he wanted 
to address the controversial idea of 
cultural continuities that persist within 
cultures in spite of years of social and 
political upheaval. Secondly, he wanted 
to identify Africa's aesthetic impact on 
the arts of the Americas, as seen in the 
cultural 
expressions 
of American 
blacks. 
Flash of the Spirit succeeds in ac-
complishing the inconceivable- an ex-
amination of five ancient civilizations of 
West and C5!ntral Africa-Yoruba, 
Kongo, 
Dahomean, Mande and 
Ejagham- for 
their artistic and 
philosophical influence on peoples of 
African descent 
in the 
Americas. 

Thompson's pairing of African and 
Afro-American artworks from these 
diverse groups 
trans~e,hds surface 
similarities. For example, in his chapter 
entitled "Black Saints Go Marching In: 
Yoruba Art and Culture 
m 
the 
Americas," Thompson makes a special 
point of tracing the history of Yoruba 
speakers and thinkers within American 
communities. 

Thompson acknowledges the cultural 
blendings that 
frequently 
present 
themselves on this side of the Atlantic. 
One example of this artistic "gumbo" is 
Haiti, where blacks reflect not only 
French Roman Catholic strains of 
cultural identity, but those of the Daho-
mean, Kongo, and Yoruba mind-sets as 
well. 

As one moves in this book from the 
Mande heartland of the Mali Empire, 
to the west coast of Mexico, back to 
Africa's savanna, and back across the 
Atlantic to Surinam, Kentucky, and 
M ississippi, 
one 
IS 
struck by 
Thompson's sense of intellectual 
transport. His methodological gift of 
vaulting the Atlantic in order better to 
understand the artistic traditions of 
both Africans and Afro-Americans is at 
times unsettling, but always on the 
mark. His perceptive translations of 
Cuban writers Lydia Cabrera and Don 
Fernando Ortiz, and his own field work 
in the barrios of New York and Miami 
illustrate the real pos'sibilities in learn-
ing about Africa through Afro-
America. 

Flash of the Spin't will no doubt be 
looked upon by rome as an overly am-
bitious project. Others will bemoan its 
modest format (i.e., no color illustra-
tions). But for many, especialiy those 
scholars who are witnesses of black in-
genuity in Africa, the Caribbean, Cen-
tral, 
South and North America, 
Thompson's book is long-awaited. As 
one of today's active voices in defining a 
specifically African impulse in art, 
Robert Farris Thompson's Flash of the 
Spirit celebrates the muse which holds 
dominion over a people's endurance 
and re-creation. 

• 
Richard Powell is a grad~JJJU student in the 
J?epartmmt of the History of Art. 
Indeed, one might view Professor 
Thompson's latest book, Flash of the 
Spirit: African and Afro-American Art and 
Philosophy, as the belated catalogue and 
text for that 1968 exhibition. In Flash of · 
the Spin·~ Thompson explores the same 
issue he addressed in the 1968 exhibi-
tion- that of a "Black Atlantic Visual 
Tradition" which spans centuries, 
distances and slavery, artistically ex-
pressing itself in shared rhythms a"ld a 
common spiritual outlook. 


**Title: The Breach of Criticism**
**Author: Cornelia D. J. Pearsall**
**Page number(s): 41-42**

The Breach of Criticism 
On the other hand, Flash of the Spin't 
departs from Thompson's original pro-
ject by virtue of 14 additional years of 
research and field work. In that interim 
period Thompson crossed the Atlantic 
ocean many times, and after basing 
himself in the specific cultures in ques-
tion, he interviewed the "authorities" on 
an and the "ritual experts." 

Cornelia D. J. Pearsall 
The Reach of Cn'ticism: Method and Percep-
tion in Literary Theory by Paul Fry 
1983 Yale University Press. $20. 
239 pp. 
Mention the Yale Critics and most com-
parative literature students here think of 
Bloom and deconstruction, but little 
else. The prevailing association seems 
to be that of an esoteric group of critics 
in an ivory tower who toss down unin-
telligible treatises on literary theory 
from time to time. 

In September another book ap-
peared from another Yale critic-Paul 
Fry, an associate professor in the 
English and Comparative L iterature 
departments. But it is rather unclear 
whether this book follows the others 


**jEROLD'S JEWELERS**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 43**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
jEROLD'S 
JEWELERS 
INSURANCE AND 
EST ATE APPRAISALS 
CUSTOM .JEWELRY 
DESIGN 
WATCH AND .JEWELRY 
REPAIR 
A TRADITION 
IN FINE.JEWELRY 
1147 Whallc·y A\'!'. 
\<\·,.,,,·ilk Cc·nt<·r 
Nc·w H :<'·c·n. Ct. 
:111!1-'l:i'.!!l 
l·frr Pt11J:ine i11 tltr rror 
\'ISA-t-.la•t<•t·c·harg<' - Anl<'ric·an I·:>: pi'<'" 
Est. 
19.32


**Beating the Habit: Two New Approaches to Drug Dependency**
**Author: Tony Reese**
**Page number(s): 44-45**

Nestled among the many buildings of 
the Yale-New Haven Hospital complex 
is one of the most impressive drug 
rehabilitation clinics in the country. At 
the Substance Abuse Treatment Unit 
(SATU) of the Connecticut Mental 
Health Center, two Yale psychiatrists 
are revolutionizing drug abuse treat-
ment programs around the country 
with. 
innovative medications and 
counselling programs. Together, the 
two scientists who work here are chang-
ing the way the medical profession con-
fronts the problem of drug addiction. 

SATU's new programs aim to incor-
porate these advances into a compre-
hensive counselling and therapy pro-
gram for drug addicts. 

Early in 1976, Dr. Herben Kleber 
and his 
research team at SAT U 
pioneered the use of naltrexone, a non-
addictive classified as a narcotic an-
tagonist that blocks the euphoric effects 
of heroin and methadone. But even 
more important, when Kleber combin-
ed this drug with a common blood 
pressure medication known as doni-
dine, he found that he could reduce the 
detoxification ·process in addicts from 
over six months to as little as three days. 

While Kleber was doing his drug re-
search, Dr. Bruce Rounsaville was 
developing a new therapy that empha-
sizes the psyrhological as well as the 
physiological basis of drug addiction. In 
a major· study of 600 opiate addicts, 
completed in 1981, Rounsaville dis-
covered that many of them were at-
tempting to cure their own mental 
problems by taking drugs. "Addicts 
have a depression rate of two to three 
times that of the general public, an 
alcoholism rate of four to five times 
higher, and an occurrence of antisocial 
Design by Katie Winter 


behavior ten to 20 times the normal 
rate," explained Rounsaville. "These 
problems that occur above and beyond 
the addiction make it harder for a user 
to get over his addiction. They help to 
perpetuate it, and, in fact, may have led 
to it in the first place. These addicts 
may be using the drugs to treat them-
selves." 

Rounsaville's research points to the 
need for a two-pronged approach to 
drug addiction. "The approach that 
drug abuse should be treated first is still 
valid," he said. "But the idea that if you 
treat the addiction everything else will 
fall into place is inadequate. The prob-
lems inherent in addiction such as get-
ting access to the drug and raising the 
$200 a day to support the habit may 
disappear, but the psychological prob-
lems remain to be treated. Thus, they 
·are more likely to relapse into dnJg use. 
"We have to see addicts as a hetero-
geneous group of people according to 
their psychological characteristics and 
the path that led to their addiction if 
we're going to find the. most effective 
types of treatment." 

Although Rounsaville's work sug-
gests a long-term program of rehabilita-
tion, Dr. 
Kleber's research in the 
clinical treatment unit has improved 
detoxification programs, which are a 
prerequisite to any further treatment. 

Kleber's work rests on the principle 
that an addict must gradually be 
weaned from the harder drug to a 
milder substitute which is easier to give 
up, such as methadone. "Methadone is 
a narcotic just like heroin," 
Kleber 
said. "Its advantage is that it can be 
taken orally rather than intravenously; 
it can be taken less frequently than the 
three or four times a day for heroin; and 
it doesn't cause euphoria when taken 
orally . 
Like 
heroin, 
however, 
methadone is an addicting narcotic. 
Many addicts who enter methadone 
programs to stop their heroin addiction 
have considerable trouble stopping their 
~ 
methadone use." 

But naltrexone, which has been the 
primary focus of Kleber's research, has 
all the advantages of methadone, and 
it's non-addictive. Once detoxified, the 
addict 
has · no difficulty stopping 
naltrexone use. 
Naltrexone attaches 
itself to the nerve receptor sites normal-
ly affected by narcotics, preventing the 
narcotics from acting on the nervous 
system. Like methadone, it is an oral 
medication that 
does 
not 
induce 
euphoria. Also, it requires only one 
dose every three days rather than once a 
d(ly, like methadone. 

"Naltrexone comes from the poppy-
it's sort of like the 'hair of the dog that 
bit you,'" explained Kleber. "Nature 
often provides both a drug and its an-
tagonist in the same plant. Cannabis, 
for example, contains both THC and 
anti-THC, and the 'quality' of any 
given marijuana is a function of how 
much of each it contains." 

Paradoxically, naltrexone's greatest 
strength is also its greatest weakness. 
Because it is non-addictive, there is no 
incentive for the addict to keep using it. 
With methadone, if an addict misses a 
dose, he enters withdrawal just as if he 
has missed a dose of heroin. With nal-
trexone, an addict not only has no 
adverse reaction to missing a dose; but 
since the nerve receptors are no longer 
blocked, he can also use narcotics again 
to produce euphoria. "The problem," 
said Kleber, "is 'how to keep 'em down 
on the farm after they've seen Paree.'" 

Also, because it is not addicting, 
naltrexone forces the addict to go 
through an instant and painful with-
drawal as soon as he stops taking 
methadone or heroine. To ease the 
withdrawal, Kleber has begun using 
naltrexone with clonidine. Clonidine 
had been on the market for a number of 
years as a blood pressure medicine 
when in 1978 Kleber discovered that it 
also blocked opiate withdrawal symp-
toms. "We're still refining the tech-
niques of its use-dotting the 'i's' and 
crossmg the 't's'. But the use of clonidine 
has spread across the country." Kleber 
has begun testing the drugs at SATU in 
an outpatient program that is three 
months old and has five patients par-
ticipating. 

months and was accomplished by a 
somewhat haphazard reduction in 
methadone dosage," Kleber explained. 
"With donidine, we could detoxify 
someone in two weeks. And, now with 
the combination of donidine and nal-
trexone, we can do it in as little as 72 
hours. The use of clonidine was a quan-
tum leap in treatment, and so was the 
discovery of donidine and naltrexone 
together." 

Kleber discovered that if he com-
bined some of Rounsaville's counselling 
methods 
he 
could 
overcome 
naltrexone's weakness. Kleber and his 
colleagues have found that a program of 
multiple 
family therapy- a 
group 
therapy session with several families 
participating- is the most effective way 
to keep addicts in the program. Three 
years ago, Kleber kept approximately 
30 percent of his patients in the pro-
gram with a combination of counselling 
and medication. "Now, with more ad-
vanced counselllng techniques, we're up 
to between 50 and 60 percent retention 
at six months in the naltrexone program 
in conjunction with family therapy," 
·said Kleber. 

"We're not satisfied with just what 
we've got, and we pay constant atten-
tion to asking questions," explained 
Kleber. "Naltrexone is just a drug, not a 
treatment." Kleber, like his colleague 
Rounsaville, emphasizes the com-
prehensive nature of drug treatment 
programs. "We need to provide a 
panoply of psychological, psychosocial 
and vocational support in conjunction 
with any drug treatments to have suc-
cess." 


Tony Reese, a sophomore in Branford Col-
lege, is Production Manager of TN].



**Title: Afterthought**
**Author: Dan Egger**
**Page number(s): 46**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The Owl of Expertise
The Search for Superior Knowledge

When I arrived at Yale, I thought somewhat vaguely of the Institution as a vessel which contained wisdom. To my. unenlightened eye the loud surety of the younger and the quiet surety of the older reflected some as yet unseen but apparently widely recognized metaphysical underpinning which lent moral weight to the frantic activity and ensured that the arrogance I saw everywhere was not simple snobbery. It embarrasses me now to confess such naivete.

I am spending this year studying various philosophical attitudes toward the relation between democracy and education , and I find it comforting that my naive view has a long history. Thomas Jefferson, for example, believed that a liberal arts education not only prepares, but entitles its recipients to govern the mass of men.

He wanted to replace birth with elite education as the ticket to political position. The magical capacity to confer authority, in the dual sense of both power and legitimacy, has of course been vested in universities since long before Jefferson, or even Yale, existed. Yet this belief in the power of education to confer authority, which holds so much sway in our culture, seems to be more and more absurd. These days, a man with a respected claim to political authority based upon education is known as an Acknowledged Expert. The magic of the university and of the Acknowledged Expert stand or fall together.


A few weeks ago a television program, "The Day After," dramatized the effects of nuclear war. After the mayhem 100 million Americans were faced with an even more macabre spectacle-a panel including Henry Kissinger, Carl Sagan, Bob MacNamara and William F. Buckley, all of whom presumed to explain to the public the meaning of what they had just seen. William Sloan Coffin was not present, but he did advertise in The New York Times that he would discuss the program after an open showing at the Riverside Church.

Why did these men presume to experience death and pontificate about it to the masses? Because they are educated men, men with the proper credentials-in short, Acknowledged Experts.

An example might clarify my distinction between an Acknowledged Expert and a true expert. Jefferson, in his role as an enthusiastic lobbyist for the creation of a new political aristocracy of men exposed to the classics through the benificance of the state, was an Acknowledged Expert. As a patient student of nature, using trial-and-error methods to explore physics, chemistry and botany, he became an expert in the science of his day.

Although their number is small, the tyranny of Acknowledged Experts muddies every corner of the twentieth century; the damage they have wrought telescopes into the future. I cannot prove that they are pernicious; it is only my intuition. But during my time at Yale I have become sure that they are not true experts.

An expert cannot help but teach, if only by example, while an Acknowledged Expert professes simply to know and often uses his knowledge as a rock with which to gain leverage over others. The conception of knowledge as private property to be bought or sold, hidden or destroyed, must have originated among the world's Acknowledged Experts. No view of knowledge could be more destructive politically.

Yale as an institution must shoulder some responsibility for this attitude, for, along with many gifted scholars and lovers of learning, Yale has produced more than her share of Acknowledged Experts. Yale is herself a symbol of Acknowledged Expertise, although, rather paradoxically, in the field of education. The atmosphere of Yale can breed the necessary arrogance as a form of self-defense against the secret knowledge of one's own ignorance. The tell-tale sign of the Acknowledged Expert is an over-emphasis on the "I" in debate combined with an unwillingness to get down to specifics, as if knowledge and ego, once joined, had become inseparable. The personality becomes the argument. One journalist recently described Averell Harriman, one of the most Acknowledged Experts in American foreign policy, as a man who needs to be "the bride at every wedding and the corpse at every funeral"; this might be the credo of the breed, for an unacknowledged Acknowledged Expert is inconceivable.

What then of Yale? What is the message of Yale's symbolic landscape? The owl hovering over Sterling Library, "the heart of the university," and brooding among the bricabrac on a dozen Yale buildings seems to be at the heart of this landscape. She was wisdom for the Greeks, and for the Egyptians, death. What will she be for Yale? That depends upon one's perspective.

What perspective is appropriate to the time? John Hersey, addressing the graduation ceremonies of my elementary school, told us to read the present with skepticism but not cynicism. I did not realize at the time how adult, and how cynical, his advice was. For if I were to summarize what I have learned at Yale, it would be that a skeptical reading of society- which is perhaps the closest thing to an intended result of a liberal arts education here -leaves one groping and confused but trusting in further education as a way out of moral paralysis. This leaves one in grave danger of falling under the thrall of Acknowledged Experts whose appealing self-confidence seems to signify possession of superior knowledge. Skepticism means doubting oneself; cynicism, doubting the Acknowledged Experts. The owl doesn't teach, but simply knows. Her mocking surety, which one may or may not take for wisdom, is Yale's symbol for the power of Acknowledged Expertise.

The core of my education at Yale has been the realization that education never grants moral authority. Jefferson was a brilliant optimist. Only a cynical reading of the owl as the symbol of a confidence-game allowed me to appreciate the true beauty of a Yale education. Only a degree of cynicism regarding the legitimacy and aims of a liberal arts education can free the individual who desires it to find moral authority elsewhere.

• 
Daniel Egger, a senior in Ezra Stiles, is a scholar of the House in philosophy of education. He is co-editor of The Quarterly.



--- Page 47 ---

r----~Your Music Station----
NEW ROCK 
Sun.- Thurs. 11 p- 3a 
JAZZ 
Mon. -Fri. 6a- 4p 
SPECTRUM 
Mon. - Fri. 5p - 11 p 
All Day Saturday 
CLASSICAL 
Sun. 8a- 6:30 p. 
REGGAE 
Fri. 11 p- 3a 
PUBLIC AFFAIRS 
&NEWS 
.....____ ___ The Yale Broadcastine Co. ___ 
___.


--- Page 48 ---

TWO FINE GIFT BOOKS ON AMERICAN 
CULTURE FROM YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS 
Metropolitan Corridor: 
Railroads & the American Scene 
John R . Stilgoe 
/ 
An engaging book that examines the 
place of railroads In American culture 
from 1880 to 1930. 
"A remarkable piece of cultural history." 
- Alan Trachtenberg 
$29.95 
American Gothic, 1930. Courtesy 
of the Art Institute of Chicago 
Grant Wood: 
the Regionalist Vision 
Wanda M. Com 
An authoritative study of the life and 
art of one of America's favorite artists. 
"A fine Job of balancing biography and 
art." 
-Los Angeles Times 
.. 
11111111111111 
-y~T,F# 
C::::<>-<>~ 
•••••••••••••• 
77 Broadway 
772-2200 
VISA, MASTERCARD, AMERICAN EXPRESS WELCOME

