Publication date: September 2011
Volume: 45
Issue number: 2

**MASTHEAD**
- Publishers: Madeleine Broder, Jimmy Murphy
- Editors-in-Chief: Max Ehrenfreund, Jacque Feldman
- Managing Editors: Juliana Hanle, Aliyya Swaby
- Photo & Design Editors: Brianne Bowen, Susannah Shattuck
- Senior Editors: Jessica Cole, Helen Knight, Sara Mich
- Production Manager: Andrew Calder
- Business Director: Whitney Schumacher
- Research Director: Nicholas Geiser
- Associate Editors: Eli Mandel, Emily Rappaport
- Chief Copy Editor: Heeseung Kim
- Copy Editors: Ava Kofman, Justine Yan
- Staff Writers: Laura Blake, Rachel Lipstein
- Members and Directors: Emily Bazelon, Roger Cohn, Peter B. Cooper, Jonathan Dach, Tom Griggs, Brooks Kelley, Kathrin Lassila, Jennifer Pitts, Henry Schwab, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, Fred Strebeigh, Thomas Strong
- Advisors: Richard Bradley, Jay Carney, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, David Slifka, John Swansburg, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Michael Addison, Austin Family Fund, Steve Ballou, J. Neela Banerjee, Margaret Bauer, Anson M. Beard, Jr., Blaire Bennett, Richard Bradley, Martha Brant, Susan Braudy, Daniel Brook, Hilary Callahan, Jay Carney, Daphne Chu, Josh Civin, Jonathan M. Clark, Constance Clement, Andy Court, Masi Denison, Albert J. Fox, Mrs. Howard Fox, David Freeman, Geoffrey Fried, Sherwin Goldman, David Greenberg, Stephen Hellman, Laura Heymann, Gerald Hwang, Walter Jacob, Jane Kamensky, Tina Kelley, Roger Kirwood, Jonathan Lear, Lewis E. Lehrman, Jim Lowe, E. Nobles Lowe, Daniel Murphy, Martha E. Neil, Peter Neil, Howard H. Newman, Sean O’Brien, Laura Pappano, Julie Peters, Lewis and Joan Platt, Josh Plaut, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, Fairfax C. Randal, Robert Randolph, Stuart Rohrer Arleen and Arthur Sager, Richard Shields, W. Hampton Sides, Lisa Silverman, Scott Simpson, Adina Proposco and David Sulsman, Thomas Strong, Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Wilson, Daniel Yergin and Angela Stent Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
Points of Departure -  
Snapshot -  
Renewal - Clare Sestanovich
Personal Essay -  
Research - Jesse Bradford
Horse Sense - Cindy Ok
Critical Angle -  
Ten Years - Sanjena Sathian
Endnote - Laura Blake
FEATURES
STANDARDS
Waging War - Jessica Cole
Bathing Mrs. Wolfson - Katie Falloon


**Title: Renewal**
**Author: Clare Sestanovich**
**Page number(s): 4**


**Title: Research**
**Author: Jesse Bradford**
**Page number(s): 10**


**Title: Horse Sense**
**Author: Cindy Ok**
**Page number(s): 16**


**Title: Ten Years**
**Author: Sanjena Sathian**
**Page number(s): 24**


**Title: Endnote**
**Author: Laura Blake**
**Page number(s): 32**


**Title: Waging War**
**Author: Jessica Cole**
**Page number(s): 34**


**Title: Bathing Mrs. Wolfson**
**Author: Katie Falloon**
**Page number(s): 37**



**Title: Out of the Weed**
**Author: Nicholas Geiser**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
“Theater is about connecting,” 
Mary L. Pepe, the former Chairwoman 
of the Board of Trustees at the Long 
Wharf Theatre, told an audience of 
250 gathered on Friday, June 3. The 
night’s event, a gala fund-raiser for the 
nonprofit theater, was also a tribute to 
Katharine Konietzko


“Sorry, officer, I thought they 
were my American Spirits.” Carrying 
the wrong kind of cigarettes last 
spring meant a one thousand dollar 
fine, possibly jail time, and certainly a 
misdemeanor on your criminal record. 
Caught again? Try a felony.


On June 7, the Connecticut House 
of Representatives gave final approval to 
SB 1014, a marijuana decriminalization 
bill that reduces the penalty for 
possession of less than half an ounce of 
cannabis (about fifteen cigarettes) from 
a misdemeanor to an infraction. A first-
time offense now carries only a $150 fine 
while a subsequent offense rises to five 
hundred dollars. For the most bullish 
reformers, however, the bill is a mixed 
bag. Cannabis remains illegal on the 
books. An offender under 21 may now 
find her driver’s license suspended for up 
to sixty days. And a three-peat at any age 
now results in automatic enrollment in a 
drug treatment program at the offender’s 
expense.


The law only applies statewide, 
and marijuana remains a Schedule I 
drug—illegal to manufacture, distribute, 
dispense, or possess—under the federal 
Controlled Substances Act. Actions of 
state lawmakers also caution against 
interpreting the bill’s passage as a sea 
change in values. By the time the State 
House of Representatives acted, the 
State Senate had already moved on to 
two separate bills. It approved by a vote 
of 34-2 a moratorium on new hookah 
lounges until Jan. 1, 2013, when the 
Connecticut Department of Health will 
release new, stricter regulations. Then 
it unanimously set the penalty for the 
possession of any quantity of synthetic 
pot at one thousand dollars and/or one 
year in jail.  


“For the life of me, I don’t know how 
I’m going to explain to my constituents 
one penalty for the fake pot and another 
for the real pot,” State Senate Republican 
leader John McKinney said.


Marijuana reform advocates agree 
that decriminalization is a step in the 
right direction. But decriminalization 
is also an awkward middle ground. 
Only full legalization, advocates say, 
can eliminate the stigma associated 
with marijuana use and take cannabis 
off the black market. In some ways, 
decriminalization is the least satisfying 
option to both prohibitionists and 
reformers—decriminalization preserves 
a taboo in name but reduces punishment 
to a slap on the wrist. 


The new law’s mixture of reform 
and prohibition reflects its contentious 
path to the governor’s desk. The State 
Senate deadlocked 18-18 over the final 
bill, requiring Lt. Gov. Nancy Wyman 
to cast a rare tie-breaking vote. The 
bill’s opponents accused Gov. Dannel P. 
Malloy of supporting decriminalization 
out of “personal interest” for his son, 
who had been convicted of selling 
cannabis in 2007 and robbing a Darien 
man of his pot at gunpoint in 2009. 


The bill’s vocal detractors included 
senators 
and 
assemblymen 
from 
conservative Fairfield County. But their 
familiar refrain of “What will we tell the 
kids?” didn’t provoke comparable moral 
urgency from the bill’s proponents. 


Those in favor of the bill cited the cost 
of criminalization to the state rather than 
ideas of personal liberty or opposition 
to a “prohibitionist” attitude. 


Malloy repeatedly characterized the 
bill as “common sense reform.” 
“We are not making marijuana 
legal,” he clarified after the Senate passed 
the bill. “We are not allowing people 
who use it and get caught to avoid the 
repercussions.”


Criminalization of small amounts 
of marijuana simply “does more harm 
than good,” he said.


Advocates for decriminalization 
bills often cite the social stigma of 
marijuana possession. Police arrest about 
seven thousand people every year for 
possession of less than half an ounce, 
and many of those arrested do complete 
programs to wipe their conviction from 
their permanent record, according to the 
legislature’s Office of Fiscal Analysis—
but removing the more private effects of 
arrest proves more difficult. Connecticut 
lawmakers, however, cited economic 
arguments before worries of social 
stigma. They kept a narrow focus on the 
harm a criminal record can do to “future 
employment prospects.”


Proponents’ lack of vigor can be 
forgiven at a time of slender budgets, 
underfunded courts, and over-crowded 
prisons. Each dollar in the $900,000 of 
estimated savings from the bill is a dollar 
not taken from libraries, school lunches, 
and winter road maintenance. And fewer 
incarcerations means the lives of two 
thousand more men and women will be 
uninterrupted by the blunt instrument 
of prison.


Malloy has promised to introduce 
legislation in the coming year to protect 
medical cannabis users, and legalization 
advocates have the demographics and 
momentum for legalization on their 
side. The question now is whether 
legalization in Connecticut will happen 
for the right reasons. If this summer is 
any instruction, when legalization comes 
to Hartford it will be wearing a business 
suit with red ink on its mind. 


But its pocket square could be 
hemp. 

—Nicholas Geiser


**Title: A Birthday Gala**
**Author: Cindy Ok**
**Page number(s): 4-6**

Louise Endel. According to New Haven 
Register reporter Randall Beach, Endel is 
“the woman who connects more people 
than Facebook.” 	


A rare New Haven socialite who 
holds the city’s record for number of 
community boards served (fifty-six 
over fifty years), Endel is at the crux 
of countless connections between the 
public service and social worlds. She 
takes particular interest in theater and 
currently serves on the board of the Elm 
Shakespeare Company as well as the 
board of the Long Wharf Theatre—and 
on the boards of LEAP (Leadership, 
Education, and Athletics in Partnership), 
Friends of the New Haven Free Public 
Library, the International Festival of 
Arts and Ideas, and the advisory board 
of All Our Kin.


Endel’s surprise ninetieth birthday 
party took place on Wednesday, July 
1. On Thursday, the Elm Shakespeare 
Company held a dinner in her honor. 
On Saturday, another dinner party for 
Endel followed a daytime picnic for her 
family and close friends. One of Endel’s 
friends hosted a birthday brunch for her 
the following day. Friday’s gala, open 
to the public, featured a performance 
by the Midtown Men, on a special tour 
reuniting four members of the original 
cast of Jersey Boys. 


“The running joke is that when it’s 
all over she’ll be the last one standing,” 
Patty Endel, her youngest daughter, said. 
“We’re all going to be exhausted, and 
she’s just going to be asking, ‘When’s the 
next party?’”


The biggest and most profitable 
of the celebrations, the gala was itself a 
series of parties. 


The first was a silent auction. Prizes 
ranged from a weekend in a country 
house worth four thousand dollars 
to lunch with New Yorker staff writer 
Adam Gopnik, starting at five hundred. 
Rounds and rounds of drinks were 
served alongside miniature foods like 
quarter-sized cheeseburgers and pinky-
sized kabobs—perhaps to make guests 
feel like giants before they wrote checks 
to the theater. 


The auction room led into the main 
ballroom where a bell curve of number 
and gleam of sequins worn versus age 
was the law. Except for a few very old 
and very young guests, all in attendance 
glittered. 


The guest of honor wore a fuchsia 
blouse in rose print with flower brooches. 
She tapped along with her feet when the 
Midtown Men brought her onstage—
after sets of songs of The Beach Boys, 
The Jackson 5, The Temptations, and 
The Beatles—to serenade her with 
“Can’t Take My Eyes Off You” and 
invite the audience to sing along. 


**Title: No Book, Feeling Blue**
**Author: Katharine Konietzko**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

On the train back from Bulldog 
Days, the whirlwind weekend tour of 
Yale for admitted students, one of 
my high school classmates pulled a 
thick blue book out of her bag to leaf 
through. Wide-eyed, I asked what it was. 
“Yale’s course book,” she said. “I 
think this might make my decision for me.”


I was given to poring over Yale’s 
promotional materials, so I knew the 
school offered over two thousand classes, 
more than seventy-five majors, and was 
basically a nerd’s heaven on earth. Still, 
having failed to pick up a copy of the 
Yale College Programs of Study myself 
during Bulldog Days, I felt a bit cheated. 
I knew I was missing something. 


When my first Blue Book arrived 
in the mail a few months later, I did 
what any over-eager pre-frosh (or, 
really, any Yale student) would do: I 
dog-eared, Post-It-noted, highlighted, 
and circled before starting to make my 
lists. I still have that first Blue Book, and 
my second. My classmate chose Yale. 


This September, newly appointed 
Registrar 
Gabriel 
Olszewski 
will 
decide with Dean Mary Miller when 
to discontinue the Blue Book, YCPS 
managing editor Laurie Ongley said. She 
said they will likely choose to eliminate 
the Blue Book next year or in 2013. Yale’s 
course catalog, first printed as a pamphlet 
in 1715, will be available only online. 


Yale students have had to preorder 
print Blue Books since summer 2010 
instead of receiving them automatically, 
with 
the 
expectation 
that 
some 
would use the online course selection 
system exclusively. As soon as the 
coming semester’s classes go live on 
Yale Online Course Information, or 
OCI, students update online statuses 
with announcements: “OCI is live—
don’t go through every department 
again this year.” Students await with 
equal eagerness the arrival of print 
Blue Books in the mail. The verb “to 
bluebook” is commonly used, as in: 
we 
start 
bluebooking 
immediately, 
and we do so obsessively. Words 
derived from the acronym OCI have 
been slower to enter the Yale lexicon.


Every course catalog since 1715 
is documented in Yale’s archives. 
Together, they trace Yale’s development 
as an academic institution. Centuries 
ago, students could tack electives in 
math or languages onto a syllabus of 
Greek and Latin giants and “natural 
philosophy.” The Manuscripts and 
Archives collection in Sterling Memorial 
Library holds the course listings dating 
back to 1822. The pages are soft and the 
print, gray. The books have been printed 
in the font now used since the 1940s.


Yale was teaching literature, history, 
and modern scientific theories by its 
bicentennial in 1901. Bacteriology and 
Military Science became majors by 1939. 
Eight years later, the Naval Science 
department joined their ranks, offering 
courses like Piloting and Navigation 
Amphibious 
Operations. 
In


Senator Richard Blumenthal spoke 
on tensions in New Haven and Endel’s 
characteristic ability to transcend them.
“She shows us that there is no limit 
to the good you can do as long as you 
don’t care who gets the credit for it,” 
he said before he presented her with a 
certificate of honor from the Senate, 
which was, he joked wearily, “not doing 
a lot these days” in the midst of budget 
negotiations and nominations.


Though it is highly unlikely 
that Endel connects more people than 
Facebook, she can be compared to Long 
Wharf Theatre as a gracefully aging city 
fixture. She was born in St. Louis, grew 
up in Westchester County, N.Y., attended 
Connecticut College, and married her 
late husband, Charlie Endel, at 22. When 
they met, she was working at Kreary’s, 
a store in New York, and he was in the 
Coast Guard. They moved to the North 
Haven house where Endel has lived for 
56 years. Endel founded and served 
for twenty-five years on the Panel of 
American Women, a national advocacy 
group that addresses prejudice. She 
recently served as Vice President of the 
Urban League and helped in the creation 
of Creative Arts Workshop, a nonprofit 
center for arts education. 
“My 
mother 
speaks 
only 
in superlatives,” Patty Endel said. 
“Everybody is the best person, the 
greatest, the most interesting. At the 
surprise party it was so confusing for us 
to be in a room with two hundred people 
who were all the best.”


Louise Endel is busy, and 
runs on the adrenaline of constant and 
forceful engagement with the people in 
her life, many of whom gathered for 
the buffet dinner at standing tables to 
celebrate her landmark birthday. 


After 
a 
few 
minutes, 
Blumenthal ended his short address.
“Last night at the Quinnipac 
Club, I was coming down, and Louise 
was there celebrating her birthday,” he 
said. “The people she was with said 
‘Louise, we have to take the elevator,’ 
and she was already halfway up the stairs, 
looking back.”

—Cindy Ok



**Title: The Transition**
**Author: Sara Mich**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
September 2011
The Transition
Michael Cutler, 44, has a leathery 
face and a limp and comes from the old 
vanguard of coffee-shop patrons. He 
believes the shops exist for storytelling 
and tall, black cups of joe. Most days, he 
sets himself down at the Starbucks on 
the corner of High and Chapel streets in 
New Haven. His table has a view of the 
entire shop. 	
The Starbucks that Cutler frequents 
is half a block from the center of Yale 
and one full block from the New Haven 
Green, where many of the city’s homeless 
population fall asleep each night. It is 
less than a block from the front steps 
of the Yale Repertory Theatre, where 
Cutler spent his first night on the street 
tucked beneath a garbage bag with issues 
of the New Haven Advocate and Play for 
a mattress. Cutler was homeless until 
March of this year.	
Cutler first became homeless in 
2004 after losing a job making calls at 
Lester Telemarketing in Branford. He 
had lived for a while at Valley Motel on 
Route 80 in Guilford but could no longer 
pay for the room. He bought a tent at 
Walmart for twenty dollars with his first 
unemployment check and pitched it in 
East Rock Park for two years. 
In 2006, Cutler served three months 
in Bridgeport Correctional Facility for 
failure to appear in court on larceny 
charges. (He says he was house-sitting 
for a friend whose credit card was stolen 
by another friend he invited over.) He 
spent the following years living with 
family and friends and did mandatory 
volunteer work at a furniture co-op. 
September 2010 found Cutler on the 
street again. 
 “Most people are just a paycheck 
away,” he said.
Last winter, Cutler participated 
in a program called Abraham’s Tent.


Columbus House, the city’s largest 
homeless 
shelter, 
developed 
the 
program in winter 2010 when it filled 
its beds—100 shelter, 110 overflow, 
thirty-five temporary—and still had 
men and women lining up outside. 
Abraham’s Tent was designed to aid 
twelve homeless men, chosen for work 
ethic and cooperative behavior, in the 
transition to independent housing. For 
each of the coldest sixteen weeks of the 
year, a different church or community 
group provides the men with food, 
shelter, and the company of volunteers. 
“This was about a very safe space 
for the participants to do what they need 
to do—get a job, meet other people,” 
said Columbus House director Allison 
Cunningham. “Last year, we made it a 
clear part of the program that we don’t 
want them back.”
Cutler’s, so far, is a success story for 
the program. 	
Yale students hosted Abraham’s 
Tent this February 21 through 27 
at Christ Church on Temple Street, 
in a large mint-green hall. Evenings 
that week, Cutler played gin rummy, 
chatting with the volunteers and looking 
occasionally at his hand. 
The other eleven men of Abraham’s 
Tent nicknamed Cutler “Mom.” He has 
shoulder-length brown hair and plays 
cards by the rules. 
A friend of Cutler’s, also in the 
program, was called “Dad”—Cutler’s 
counterpart and an avid cook. He kept 
one bag with him at all times. Besides 
folded 
socks, 
underwear, 
and 
an 
umbrella, it contained a pepper grinder, 
an ice cream scoop, homemade Cajun 
spice, small and large crystallized sea salt, 
garam masala, and tumeric.
The two homeless men had been 
friends for years. They met on the New 
Haven Green. Cutler’s current Fountain 
Street apartment, his first home in two 
years, is paid for by a grant arranged by 
his Columbus House caseworker from 
the federal Homelessness Prevention 
Rapid 
Re-Housing 
Program 
(HPRP). The grant will pay his first 
six months’ rent, until September 30. 
After September 30, if Cutler makes 
six hundred dollars a month, he will 
be allowed to stay in the subsidized 
apartment, covering one-third of the 
rent himself. If he doesn’t make that 
much, he will lose the funding. 
Cutler was recently employed about 
thirty-two hours a week by Clean Team, 
which works in beautification projects 
downtown as part of Town Green 
Special Services. He was let go a few 
weeks ago. He says he called in sick and 
the company never received his call so 
held him responsible for missing work.
He now is unemployed again, with 
his roof once more at risk.
On the day Cutler moved in this 
March, he went to his usual Starbucks, 
hopped on the B2 bus and walked to the 
apartment manager’s office on Fountain 
Street. Lisa Cuomo, the building 
manager, jingled a set of keys as he 
turned the corner into her office.
Cutler sat down, crossed his legs, 
and leaned toward the lease on the table, 
reading it eagerly. 
Laundry is available on every floor.
“Yeah, yeah, yeah.”
Guests must park on the street.
“Yeah, that’s fine.”
No pets.
“Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, nah, I 
wouldn’t, darling, nah, none of those.”
Later that day, Cutler left his new 
apartment just as he had found it. He 
slung the heavy backpack he had brought 
but did not unpack over a shoulder and 
surveyed the three rooms with bare walls 
and empty cupboards. He caught the B2 
back downtown and got off a few blocks 
from his table at Starbucks.
“I’m an addict,” he said. “Ask 
anyone. I was there at 6 a.m. this 
morning. I think I need rehab. I think I 
was there five times.”
Employees at the coffee shop 
know Cutler for the stories he tells. 
While participating in Abraham’s Tent 
this February, he and others often told 
a story of a woman passed out on a 
New Haven street. The story changed 
with each retelling in the green room at 
Christ Church. Sometimes the woman 
was young, sometimes old. She was on 
a bench or on the ground. The program 
participants did agree on the story’s end: 
No one helped the woman, and she was 
inches from death. 
“You come out of the womb,” 
Cutler said, “and doctors slap you on 
the butt, and you carry on with as much 
moral correctness as you can. Don’t hurt 
women or animals. Don’t be a scumbag.”


**Title: POINTS OF DEPARTURE**
**Author: Katharine Knoietzko**
**Page number(s): 8**

POINTS OF DEPARTURE
Katharine Knoietzko
Welcome, 
Class of 2015!
To write, 
design, 
illustrate, 
or photograph, 
e-mail 
thenewjournal@gmail.com. 
TNJ



**Title: SNAPSHOT**
**Author: Clare Sestanovich**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Call to Renew
Nearly two centuries later, a members-only 
library could once again become the center 
of intellectual life in New Haven.


**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

10
The New Journal
N
o sign at The Institute Library 
urges visitors to keep their 
voices down, but there is little 
to tempt guests here from breaking usual 
reading room etiquette. The main floor is 
empty on a Friday in early August. Each 
of the oversized red chairs sits vacant 
in the back room of this second story 
library—an unlikely and unnoticeable 
fixture of Chapel Street’s cramped 
commercial row, nestled between a 
tattoo parlor and dated pawn shop.  
An enormous oriental rug was 
rolled out beneath the armchairs just 
days earlier—an invitation, so far 
unheeded, to venture back into the 
library and find a seat around its circular 
central table. Closer to the front, an 
old wooden card catalogue welcomes 
visitors (once they’ve rung the library’s 
buzzer and climbed up the narrow 
staircase that leads away from the street 
level’s bus stop bustle).  Most library card 
catalogues are preserved as quaint relics 
of the pre-digital age, but the miniature 
drawers at the Institute are still full—and 
still in use. 

Inside, the cards document the 
library’s inventory (thirty thousand 
volumes, with more packed and stored 
away in bags) and history (nearly two 
centuries of service in downtown New 
Haven). 

Though you might not guess it 
wandering among the Institute’s quiet 
shelves, the library has 345 current 
members, the most it’s had in fifty years. 
Rising membership is a point of pride 
for Will Baker, appointed the library’s 
new executive director in February. Just 
last year, the library faced near certainty 
of closure: buffeted by the economic 
crisis, the Institute’s tiny endowment 
seemed to be on its last legs. With only 
194 members (each paying a nominal 
twenty-five dollar fee), the library cut its 
hours drastically, opening for just over 
ten hours a week. These days, however, 
Baker is hard at work bringing the bustle 
back to the library, where objects are 
meant not just to be touched, but to be 
used. 

Baker’s timing might seem unwise. 
Symptoms of a print doomsday are 
everywhere: 
shuttered 
windows 
at 
the last-Border’s-standing, publishers 
struggling 
to 
deal 
with 
shifting 
technologies, 
Kindles 
and 
Nooks 
emerging out of purses and backpacks 
on the public bus. If the decline of the 
book is all but guaranteed, how can a 
tiny library like this hope to emerge from 
its own near-certain demise?
“If you think about libraries just as 
repositories of information,” says Baker, 
“then there is no reason for them to 
remain.”

The future of libraries, Baker 
believes, lies in their role as communities, 
not collections. The key to success is not 
keeping visitors quiet; it’s getting them 
talking.

B
aker’s new vision is of “library 
as place,” a buzzword among 
likeminded library enthusiasts. “Too 
often libraries are thought about only in 
terms of their physical collections: the 
books, journals, manuscripts, and other 
physical materials that line the shelves,” 
wrote Susan Gibbons, Yale University 
librarian, in an e-mail. “The creation 
and transmission of knowledge requires 
conversation and debate, and libraries 
were designed for that purpose.”

The New Haven Free Public Library 
hosted over one thousand community 
meetings last year, and typically offers 
four to five programs a week at the main 
branch, according to Cathleen DeNigris, 
the library’s deputy director.
“We try to offer as many varied 
speakers, workshops, and film series 
as we can,” she wrote in an e-mail. “I 
believe as we enter an age of e-books 
and instant online information, libraries 
as ‘places’ become even more important. 
Human beings are social entities and 
need spaces where they can come 
together with others, even if they are not 
interacting all the time.”

It’s a vision that fits nicely in the 
narrative of the Institute Library’s 
past. From its first meeting in 1826, 
the Library has been as much about 
talking—and sharing—as it has been 
about reading. 

In many ways, the creation of the 
library was unexceptional. Membership 
libraries, which require a small fee to 
make use of their collections, were 
unremarkable in an era that pre-dated 
the rise of public libraries. Likewise, the 
library’s pedagogical mission was also 
the product of a larger movement: the 
mobilization of the American middle 
class to seek out liberal arts education. 
Unlike other membership libraries 
and intellectual societies at the time, 
the 
Young 
Apprentices’ 
Literary 
Association, as it was originally called, 
was created without a jump-start from a 
wealthy patron and operated without the 
oversight of any experienced teachers. 
The eight founders, all “mechanics” or 
“clerks” (catch-all terms for blue-collar 
workers), pooled their resources—most 
likely, several good sets of reference 
volumes and canonical literature—and 
launched a quest for self-improvement 
on their own. At each meeting, 
members were required to read aloud 
an original piece of writing, killing two 
all-important birds (composition and 
declamation) with one stone. Any lazy 
student who forgot his homework was 
fined ten cents.  

Within a year, the founders had 
attracted the attention of educators 
and financiers willing to pitch in to 
support their venture. The club took the 
progressive step of opening its doors to 
women in 1835 and in 1841 was officially 
chartered by the state under its new name, 
The New Haven Young Men’s Institute 
(which still welcomed women). Within a 
decade, the library had become a bastion 
of inclusive and provocative discourse 
in the city. The intimate “seminars” of 
the library’s early days were replaced by 
a selection of three hundred classes. An 
ongoing lecture series featured esteemed 
speakers from the national Lyceum 
circuit, including Henry Ward Beecher, 
Charles Dickens, Ralph Waldo Emerson, 
and Herman Melville.  

 The library’s heyday, however, was 
short-lived. Financial woes in the wake 
of the Civil War weakened the Institute, 
which found itself on the peripheries of 
the debates it had once monopolized. 
When the New Haven Free Public 
Library opened in 1886, the Institute 
seemed destined for obsolescence. 
The premise of a membership library 
became antiquated at best, uninviting 
and—ironically, given the Institute’s 
humbles beginnings—elitist at worst.

Under William Borden, the librarian 
whose hundred-year-old handwriting still 
fills the catalogue’s most yellowed cards, 
the Institute turned inward. Many of the 
library’s most charming idiosyncrasies 
are the product of Borden’s unusual 
stewardship from 1887 until 1910.  
Contrary to the lofty pedagogy of the 
founders, he set out to turn the Institute 
into what Baker calls a “laboratory 
for library science.” A classmate and 
competitor of Melvil Dewey, father 
of the ubiquitous Dewey Decimal 
System, Borden designed an alternative

Just last year, the 
library faced near 
certainty of closure: 
buffeted by the 
economic crisis, the 
Institute’s tiny 
endowment seemed 
to be on its last legs.


**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Brianne Bowen**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
14
The New Journal
(and, Baker notes, “very problematic”) 
classification system for organizing the 
library’s collection. Borden’s system uses 
a book’s date of acquisition as part of 
its organizational schema, a design flaw 
that ultimately discouraged expanding 
the library’s collection. To this day, it is 
used in no other known library—a dead-
end story that befits the library’s own 
declining trajectory. 

Baker pictures a “social space” at 
the Institute, which he thinks will 
thrive if it is filled with people—not, 
as Borden evidently hoped, simply 
because it is filled with books. To be 
sure, Baker shares much of Borden’s 
bookish obsession with the library and 
its collection: he received a Master’s in 
museum studies in 2004, and worked for 
William and Reese, a leading rare books 
company based in New Haven. Yet 
Baker is equally committed to what he 
calls “community-oriented work”—an 
ethos of literary engagement that sets his 
own directorship apart from Borden’s 
model of custodianship. In 2009, Baker 
enrolled in the library science program 
at Southern Connecticut University. 
That same fall, Baker visited the Institute 
Library for the first time—brought 
along by one of the library’s board 
members. Baker was instantly taken 
by the rich history of the library, and 
began investigating the Institute’s past 
as part of his own research. By the time 
his two years at Southern were over, he 
had befriended many of the Institute’s 
board members and was offered a newly 
created position as executive director.  
As part of his final project at 
Southern (before his directorship at the 
Institute), Baker mailed out a survey to 
all two hundred members at the time. 
Part of the fact-finding project solicited 
basic information: why members joined 
(everything from encouraging small 
libraries to “support[ing] Will Baker 
in all his endeavors”), how often they 
visited (less than four percent visited 
once a week or more), and how many 
books they borrowed (almost half had 
never checked out a book). 

The survey was also forward-
looking. Baker wanted to know what


15
September 2011
TNJ
Clare Sestanovich is a junior in 
Pierson College.
members liked best about the library—
and what they thought stood to be 
improved. Their answers sounded a 
ringing note of approval for Baker’s 
vision of “library as place.” Users cited 
the literal space at the Institute as its 
most attractive feature—a “haven,” as 
one respondent wrote, “where one can 
focus and be productive.” They eagerly 
proposed introducing debates, game 
clubs, and instructional classes. The 
simple addition of coffee and tea was 
the most popular proposed change. 

T
he most worthy spirit of the library, 
Baker believes, can be found in 
the run-up to the Civil War, when 
the Institute was one of the few safe 
spaces for abolitionists to speak out 
in New Haven. (Uncharacteristically, 
Connecticut was a pro-slavery Northern 
state—the result, Baker surmises, of 
Southern business interest and the 
omnipresent legacy of Eli Whitney’s 
cotton gin.) 

Baker has a favorite story from the 
era. During the 1850s, an abolitionist was 
invited to speak at the Institute, ruffling 
the feathers of New Haven’s Southern 
sympathizers. Determined to derail the 
speech, one local copperhead interrupted 
the visitor and began to muster a mob 
of indignant audience members. As the 
gathering seemed poised to dissolve into 
violent disarray, an elderly woman stood 
up to denounce the young rabble-rouser. 
Following her principled lead, a handful 
of other library members surrounded 
the man and began pushing him away 
from the crowd. The old lady, however, 
insisted that he sit politely through the 
lecture—guaranteeing that he learn his 
lesson in the truest sense.    

Baker’s anecdote presents a kind 
of Holy Grail of social learning. The 
collective teaching of an old lady and 
a motley New Haven crowd suggests 
what civil discourse at its best can bring 
to those who agree to come together 
and talk together. Indeed, two-sided 
discourse is precisely what can get lost 
in an era dominated by the one-way 
transactions of the technological world.
The legend of the old lady isn’t the 
only one Baker likes to tell. “There are 
so many great stories that people have 
of while doing research in the library, 
pulling a book out and finding one they 
wouldn’t have encountered,” he says. “Or 
backing up into someone, and finding 
out they are working on complementary 
projects.” 

These serendipitous encounters, of 
course, only happen in well-trafficked 
libraries. 

Still, 
while 
membership 
has risen under Baker’s tenure, he 
acknowledges that recruitment efforts 
alone will not be enough to carve out a 
new and permanent niche for the library. 
The real grist of his agenda as Director 
will be to introduce new programming 
to the library—giving new members a 
real “reason for them to remain.” 

In the fall, many of the plans 
proposed by the library’s members will 
finally come off paper and into action. 
Baker hopes to launch the Institute’s 
first lecture series, on the theme of civil 
discourse—as he describes it, “civil 
discourse about civil discourse.” Book 
clubs and classes are also in the works, 
along with eight exhibitions of local 
artists.
“There’s great potential for the 
Institute Library to attract downtown 
people in for lunchtime programs or 
after work for discussions, book talks, 
etc.,” the public library’s DeNigris wrote.

Baker has plans for more avant 
garde performances as well; he hints at 
the possibility of bringing an old friend, 
“the last link to the last great generation 
of sideshow performers,” to put on his 
famous sword-swallowing act on the 
library’s second or third floor.  

Baker knows he is fighting an uphill 
battle. He admits that computers, not 
libraries, are the perfect “portals to 
information.” But accessing information 
isn’t the endgame of Baker’s brand 
of 
education. 
Engaging 
with 
information—not just reading books, 
but truly discussing them—is the far 
more difficult mission of good libraries 
and good librarians. The “portal” Baker 
envisions is more than a few clicks of 
the mouse away, but still, he believes, 
well within reach. The question now is 
whether anyone else is willing to climb 
through. 



**Title: Waging War**
**Author: Jessica Cole**
**Page number(s): 16**

After a fashionable downtown 
restaurant closes, workers 
claim unfair treatment and 
pay.
By Jessica Cole
Jessica Cole


**Title: Unpaid Labor in New Haven**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Nineteen-year-old Anna Aranda knew the price of almost everything in Mario’s Discount Furniture after her month of working there. For eleven hours a day, seven days a week, she rang up purchases and wrote them down. Fifty-inch plasmas? $1,099. Astoria couches? A steal at $1,400. But the one price tag that Aranda will never forget, and the store’s biggest discount of all, was the one attached to herself: “They didn’t pay me,” she says. “Nothing. Not even commissions.”


Aranda, a petite woman with a straight-at-you stare and a smile that emerges when she’s hard at work, recounts her version of her time at Mario’s while wiping glue off her fingers. She is busy building papier-mâche puppets for a May Day workers’ march in downtown New Haven; since quitting Mario’s, she works a part-time job that leaves her with time to volunteer. She found that her undocumented status made it difficult to procure another full-time position. She switches between Spanish and English as she recalls her frustrated attempts to get payment from Mario’s. Like several others interviewed for this story, Aranda spoke through a translator. “I started asking [my boss] about my money. He was like, ‘tomorrow’ and ‘tomorrow’ and ‘tomorrow.’” By the time she quit at the end of March, after four unpaid weeks on the job, Aranda realized that “tomorrow” would never come.


Diego Castillo worked part-time as a dishwasher at Cafe Goodfellas in New Haven for a month and a half before he gave up on receiving a paycheck. He also worked mornings at the drycleaner across the street from the restaurant during the same time period. The moment that his boss at the drycleaner heard his story, he picked up the phone, called across the street, and demanded justice for Castillo. The owners at Goodfellas refused. 


Castillo did not know that others also had wage complaints against Cafe Goodfellas. Between 2008 and 2010, the Connecticut Department of Labor had received ten complaints against the restaurant and had forced Goodfellas to pay a total of $9,527.51 in stolen wages.


For Neftali Palma, a perfect job involves dough and back kitchens, desserts and a good dinner. He is a pastry chef by training and has spent twenty-five years pursuing his passion at restaurants in Mexico and the United States. “You make something in food and you make people happy,” Palma says. “When people come in the back and say, ‘This is the best meal of my life,’ that is my payback.” 
In 2009, Palma landed a job at Downtown at the Taft, a restaurant in the heart of New Haven that briefly changed its name to Baccus Enoteca before closing this year. Palma thought he had found the best of both worlds: solid employment and a position as head chef of a six-person kitchen staff. Instead, he discovered that satisfaction would be the only thing that he would earn in abundance.


Palma and his staff filed complaints with both the federal and the state Departments of Labor. According to those complaints, the workers were receiving neither the state nor the federal minimum wage during their employment. On August 29, resolution was near after Diego Castillo worked part-time as a dishwasher at Cafe Goodfellas in New Haven for a month and a half before he gave up on receiving a paycheck.

Above: Protestors carry signs in the streets of New Haven at the march on National Worker’s Day on May 1.



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
18
The New Journal
and-a-half overtime pay, or a failure to 
pay wages at all. Wage theft is a national 
problem playing out in hundreds of city 
downtowns. And with the percentage 
of workers who are union members 
now at a third of its mid-20th century 
height, these workers, many of whom 
are concentrated in the lowest rungs of 
the service industry and some of whom 
are undocumented, are among the most 
vulnerable members of the economy 
as it struggles to recover from the 2008 
crash.


Workers who are illegally employed 
often have the hardest time coming 
forward about these violations, despite 
the fact that certain workers’ rights 
are universally protected by law. All 
unsalaried workers are entitled to 
the minimum wage and to overtime 
pay when they work more than forty 
hours a week. All can sue to recover 
lost wages. Antonio DiBenedetto, the 
owner of Rocco’s Bakery on Ferry 
Street, pled guilty in January to holding 
six Ecuadorian employees as wage 
slaves to work from 2000 to 2008. They 
were eventually rescued by the U.S. 
Immigration and Customs Enforcement 
in a raid that, rather than deporting the 
immigrants, granted them protection 
from the alleged abuse. 


The owners of Mario’s Discount 
Furniture, 
Cafe 
Goodfellas, 
and 
Downtown at the Taft did not respond 
despite repeated and acknowledged 
requests for comment.


Reyes Morales, who worked in the 
kitchen at Downtown at the Taft with 
Palma, says, “[Bosses] exploit workers 
a lot. They take advantage of people 
who are undocumented. Workers are 
afraid of losing their jobs, so they don’t 
say anything.” Like Aranda, he had 
no knowledge of the protections that 
the United States offers to all workers, 
regardless of their immigration status, 
under the Fair Labor Standards Act of 
1938. 


“There is a new slavery in the 
United States,” said Guadalupe Montiel, 
who works with both Unidad Latina 
and the non-profit Junta for Progressive 
Action. “Immigrants are being treated as 
slaves.”


Last year, New York state passed 
the Wage Theft Prevention Act, which 
mandated that employers supply all 
workers with salary information at the 
start of their employment. Activists 
in New Haven hope to pass similar 
legislation, and the individuals, both 
documented and undocumented, who 
have stepped forward thus far have won 
important victories. Federal- and state-
level investigations by the Department 
of Labor have led to the delivery of tens 
of thousands of dollars in back-owed 
wages, while public protests and private 
negotiations have prompted back-door 
settlements for thousands of dollars 
more. 


But not everyone in the city believes 
in seeking complete wage compliance. 
Some employers see low wages as the 
only way to survive in a competitive city. 
Some argue simply that this problem 
pervades the entire service industry, 
making 
it 
difficult 
for 
individual 
“In New Haven, 
the only way 
business 
owners can 
survive is by 
paying less than 
the minimum 
wage. That’s 
the reality of the 
industry. I feel 
that’s not right.”
three months of negotiations with the 
owners of Downtown at the Taft.


“The parties appear to have reached 
a settlement,” said Peter Goselin, a 
lawyer representing the workers. “The 
details are being worked out, but we 
are very optimistic that the settlement 
will resolve all of the claims of the six 
workers.”


When Palma worked at Downtown 
at the Taft, he says, the restaurant’s owners 
gave him a sum of money to distribute 
to the other kitchen workers. Divided up, 
this sum was below minimum wage and 
included no overtime. This forced Palma 
not only to lose out on his earnings but 
also to reach into his own pockets to 
help supplement those of men working 
under him in the kitchen. When he asked 
the owners for additional money, they 
avoided the question. “They always say, 
‘Yeah, yeah, tomorrow. Yeah, yeah, next 
week.’ There’s nothing you can do!” 


The increased hours took a toll 
on his family life, too. As Palma spent 
between eighty and a hundred hours 
a week trying to meet his employer’s 
demands in the kitchen, he saw less and 
less of his three children, the youngest 
of whom is just six years old. “I was 
losing my family; I worked so many 
hours that I couldn’t see my kids. By 
the last month, the only way to see my 
family at all was to call them and have 
them come for lunch at the restaurant.” 


The low wages and lack of time at 
home led Palma, after nearly two years 
of working for Downtown at the Taft, 
to quit. “One night, my daughter asks, 
‘When am I going to see you so we can 
talk?’ I realized that this is not a job, this 
is a life,” Palma says.


A
randa, Castillo, and Palma are 
three of a growing number of 
New Haven workers, led by organizers 
with Unidad Latina en Acción and the 
New Haven Workers Association, its 
multiethnic parter, who are seeking 
justice after alleged instances of unfair 
compensation. These violations of labor 
laws, often called wage theft, involve 
payment below Connecticut’s minimum 
wage of $8.25 an hour, a lack of time-



**Title: Wage Theft in New Haven**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
September 2011
Customers pulled their cars into 
the lot, saw the picket, and drove away. 


A police officer gave the protestors a 
ticket and made them move to public 
property. But after four months of 
weekly demonstrations, the group won 
one of its first major public labor cases: 
the three employees who had been fired 
from Outback Steakhouse after filing 
sexual harassment charges were paid a 
settlement by the national chain. 


The case helped to establish 
Unidad Latina and the New Haven 
Workers Association as trusted activist 
organizations within the city, and they 
began to receive a growing number 
of referrals for similar cases in other 
local shops and restaurants. The group 
has handled hundreds of cases since 
its founding in 2002. By now, it has a 
streamlined strategy for responding to 
complaints. Major cases in the city have 
included Outback Steakhouse, Rocco’s 
Bakery, Downtown at the Taft, and Cafe 
Goodfellas. 


The 
New 
Haven 
Workers 
Association helped Palma, Morales, and 
their coworkers to file their complaints. 
Morales was working sixty to seventy 
hours a week at the restaurant while 
being paid less than the minimum wage, 
with no time-and-a-half for overtime. 
Morales, who speaks only Spanish 
and admits to being undocumented, 
worked with his fellow complainants to 
provide information to help prove their 
allegations: the workers’ stories matched, 
they had their own records of their pay, 
and they were able to describe aspects of 
the restaurant’s operations in vivid detail. 
Palma convinced the other men to 
come forward after first realizing how 
widespread the problem was across 
the city and then understanding what 
his rights were by speaking with the 
Department of Labor through the New 
Haven Workers Association. “We’re 
going to fight for [what we are owed],” 
he says that he told the workers. “I don’t 
think I’m a leader, but my guys follow 
me. I do it because we are human beings, 
and we are supposed to take care of 
everyone else.”


After gathering information, the 
New Haven Workers Association sends 
a certified letter to the owner of an 
accused business alerting them to the 
allegations and requesting a response 
by a certain date. Lugo says that about 
forty percent of claims are settled after 
the initial letter through negotiations. 
The majority, though, are not. “The 
owners just tried to hide themselves” 
initially in response to the complaints 
about the Taft, Morales says. Palma says 
that he received a threatening phone call 
from one of his former bosses after he 
saw Palma’s name in print. But, he says, 
he also received help because of his 
relationship with the press: “Every time 
we go in the newspaper, people call me 
and say, ‘Ah, it’s true, I remember that 
happened to me.’” 


When owners do not respond to 
the initial letters, Unidad Latina either 
works with a lawyer to file a case or puts 
together a complaint and sends it to the 
federal or state Department of Labor. 
However, the former costs money and 
can be nerve-wracking for complainants 
without legal permission to work, while 
the latter can take far longer than the 
workers are able to wait.  Sheila Hayre, 
an attorney at New Haven Legal Aid, 
estimates that the Department of 
Labor can take a full year to even open 
an investigation into a complaint, and 
up to a year more to resolve it. Still, 
organizers usually take advantage of the 
free forms to apply for an investigation, 
knowing that it will often uncover a 
series of discrepancies in the owner’s 
bookkeeping. They also, if workers feel 
comfortable, put them in touch with 
Department of Labor representatives 
to help confirm their feelings of being 
treated wrongly. “We went to the Labor 
Department, and they explained it to 
me,” says Palma. “People in those kinds 
of positions don’t really realize how 
much they’re supposed to make. You 
should know you should make more 
than that.” 


But 
appealing 
to 
government 
channels is merely the first, and quietest, 
step in Unidad Latina’s support of the 
workers. They also organize picket 
lines, host direct actions, and call 
press conferences to publicize their 
accusations. On December 17, 2010, 
boycottbaccusenoteca.blogspot.com 
went live with an entry about a picket 
line and a phone number to call with 
complaints.  “This restaurant owes nearly 
$100,000 in unpaid wages to 7 former 
workers,” read the headline. “Wage theft 
is a crime.”


Unidad Latina learned from trial 
and error to hold pickets on Fridays 
in order to have the greatest effect on 
a restaurant’s profits and to hold press 
conferences on Wednesday afternoons 
in order to draw the largest number of 
press outlets. The number of protestors 
varies between ten and forty; workers 
often bring their friends for support. 
The approach has been effective. 
Goodfellas, though initially unwilling 
to negotiate despite orders from the 
Department of Labor, finally paid its 
workers the full $23,000 that they had 
been owed after a large press conference 
was called and organizers warned of a 
redoubling of picketing efforts. However, 
picketers run the risk of alienating the 
local population—“Glares are the nicest 
thing they do,” says Chris Garaffa, a co-
founder of the New Haven Workers 
Association and a regular participant 
in the picket lines—or having run-ins 
with the police, which can be extremely 
dangerous 
for 
any 
undocumented 
workers participating in public action. 


It can also take a long time for protests 
to take effect, and if a restaurant closes, 
as Downtown at the Taft did, it can be 
difficult for organizers to find a place to 
make a stand. But even with the dangers 
involved, Lugo is convinced that direct 
action is a necessary addition to Unidad 
Latina’s more official complaints. “Many 
of the big victories in this country, they 
got won on the streets,” he says.


For Lugo and Garaffa, undocumented 
workers are the most difficult to 
convince to come to public protests. 
Sometimes, in those cases, Garaffa offers 
complainants complete anonymity and 
lets them miss their own picket lines. “If 
you work, you deserve to get paid,” he 
says. “When we talk about a case with 
the press, we don’t specify whether it 
involves an immigrant or not.”


Certainly, the workers impacted 
by wage theft are not solely illegal 
immigrants. Many of them are Latino 
and here legally; many others are of 
other backgrounds and are caught up 
in the same low wage job market as 
the immigrants are. Erin Talbot, who is 
white, worked briefly as a waitress at the 
vegetarian restaurant Thali Too. On her 
first day on the job during the summer 
after the restaurant opened, she alleges 
that she heard her boss threatening to 
have workers’ wages withheld during 
future shifts for not setting the table 
correctly. Rattan Kaul, the manager of 
Thali Too for the past year, says that he 
heard no reports of payment disputes 
from Talbot or other employees, and 
that the restaurant’s payments are 
done through a computer system that 
automatically issues wages by the hour. 


According to Talbot, the incident 
prompted her to quit because she had 
another job offer, but many others are 
not so fortunate. 


“Especially in this economy, if 
there are enough people looking for 
jobs…most people will endure far less 
than ideal working conditions,” she 
said in a phone interview. Indeed, part 
of the purpose of the founding of the 
New Haven Workers Association out of 
Unidad Latina was to better represent 
workers who were not members of the 
populations with which Unidad Latina 
usually works. However, that Talbot 
was confident enough in her rights as a 
worker to stand up to the manager in the 
first place sets her apart from most of 
the undocumented workers who work in 
the back of the house at restaurants and 
service shops. 


The stereotyping of Latinos across 
the country makes the public less 
sympathetic to uneven power dynamics


businesses to avoid. A 2009 survey of 
four thousand low-wage workers across 
Chicago, Los Angeles, and New York 
found that twenty-six percent of those 
workers had been paid less than the 
minimum wage in the week prior, and 
seventy-six percent of them had either 
been underpaid or not paid for overtime 
hours. “If you go to any…place in New 
Haven, the only way they can survive is 
by paying less than the minimum wage. 
That’s the reality of the industry. I feel 
that’s not right,” says John Lugo, one of 
the leaders of Unidad Latina. 


Traditionally, federal and state 
governments have been the arbiters 
of 
workplace 
behavior, 
regulating 
minimum wages, investigating fraud, 
and collecting taxes. But cunning 
employers have found other ways to 
skimp on their payroll, banking on the 
fact that workers are too intimidated 
or too easily replaced to protest. And 
when employees do speak up, as Palma 
did, they are often ignorant of the laws 
on their side. Since contacting the New 
Haven Workers Association, Aranda 
has sent two letters to Mario’s Discount 
Furniture demanding payment for her 
back wages. If her claims are true, she 
is owed for her unpaid work. But when 
asked if she knew that she had legal 
rights to compensation and protection 
in the workplace before she came into 
contact with the organizers, Aranda fell 
silent. Her reply was simple, and quiet. 
“No.” 


The recent battles for wage justice in 
New Haven began with a victory 
in 2007. In January of that year, four 
years before Palma came forward with 
his allegations against Downtown at 
the Taft, members and allies of Unidad 
Latina sang a modified Christmas carol 
outside of an Outback Steakhouse in 
North Haven:


Down by the freezer
Where the kitchen staff  is harassed
He said, “Hey hon, why don’t ya give 
me some 
Or this paycheck is your last.’‘

The May 1 march sought to stop downtown New Haven traffic in honor of
 International Worker’s Day.

Protestors carried 
puppets representing 
workers.


**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Jessica Cole**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The irrelevance of immigration status in 
claims for unpaid minimum wages or 
overtime, other cases involving backpay 
for unlawful termination may require 
disclosure of a worker’s legal status in the 
country. Hayre says that complications 
arise when a court tries to sentence a 
business owner. If the complainant 
argues that he or she was illegally fired, 
normally the court will order the owner 
to re-hire that person. However, in a case 
where the plaintiff is not a documented 
resident or does not have papers 
allowing him or her to work in the 
United States, it is equally impossible to 
order a business owner to break the law 
again by hiring such a worker. Hayre says 
that until the threat of deportation fades 
away, undocumented immigrants will 
never be able to fully feel comfortable 
coming forward with complaints about 
workplace violations. “Who am I to say 
risk everything [to speak up]? Honestly, 
I’d probably make the same decision,” 
she says of the workers who decide to 
remain silent. 

For Aranda, who is undocumented 
yet came forward anyway, the specter of 
deportation paled next to her desire for 
justice. She acknowledges that owners 
are aware of how much they can exploit 
immigrants, but says that there should be 
a level of respect given to all workers, 
regardless of their status. “I would say to 
the people who are afraid [of speaking 
out] that we are human, too. In spite of 
this little paper…we are human, too.”
“¡El pueblo unido, jamás será vencido! 
The people, united, will never 
be defeated! El pueblo unido…” One 
hundred demonstrators shout together, 
alternating languages, in front of New 
Haven’s City Hall. There are not as many 
reporters present as the organizers had 
hoped for, but their mission—to stop 
traffic in the center of the city in honor 
of International Workers’ Day on May 
1—grows more successful with each car 
that has to detour around the crowds. 

The demonstrators march from City 
Hall to the hospital and back again. They 
ask for paid sick days, better immigration 
laws, education reform, and the end to 
in the service industry. John Ziebell, a 
New Haven resident, showed up to the 
May Day Workers Rally with his 7-year-
old son Ben to hold a sign reading, 
“American Jobs for Americans First.” 
He pointed to the three puppets made 
by Unidad Latina and the New Haven 
Workers Association and said, “None 
of those puppets are white. It’s not fair, 
it’s not right…It’s taking my job and the 
job of other Americans.” Ziedell said his 
own family immigrated to the United 
States from Germany three generations 
ago, and he has worked hard to earn his 
living since then. 

But despite the disagreements over 
undocumented immigrants in all other 
aspects of American life, laws regarding 
the workplace and specifically the Fair 
Labor Standards Act stipulate that, once 
hired, undocumented immigrants have 
rights, too. “In the United States, at least 
in the ideal version of it, we believe 
there has to be a certain basic floor of 
standards,” says Hayre of New Haven 
Legal Aid. Moreover, when complaints 
are filed, the legal burden of proof falls 
on the employer, so even undocumented 
immigrants who have been intimidated 
out of saving records of their pay are 
able to file a claim. 

Often, workers, Aranda and Reyes 
included, are surprised to find out how 
much protection they have without 
formal legal status in the United States. 
But Hayre says that it is not just a matter 
of workers understanding their rights—
even after she holds workshops to explain 
their rights to them, she receives very few 
complaints from men and women who 
are still employed. The job market is too 
difficult, and undocumented immigrants 
remain nervous about their status. It is 
often only once they quit or are fired that 
workers will show up in Hayre’s office. 
“Really what has to change is this climate 
of fear that surrounds undocumented 
immigrants in this country,” she says. 

It is a justifiable fear. Even with the 
protections, until a national immigration 
solution is reached, there will always 
be some level of risk for immigrants 
who come forward. While there are 
cases that establish a precedent for the 
the Iraq War all in the same breath, 
which makes one thing extremely clear: 
despite their vocal support for unity, 
these activists do not present an entirely 
united front. They are workers, yes, and 
they want change; but these are alliances 
born out of convenience and necessity, 
not common goals.

These alliances become necessary in 
a city the size of New Haven. Unlike New 
York City, New Haven has few worker 
centers able to pay specific employees 
to investigate allegations and lobby the 
government when wage theft cases like 
Aranda’s arise. This leaves New Haven 
with a landscape of activism that is far 
from full-time. Unidad Latina has no 
budget of any kind; it relies on donations 
to pay for the occasional rented space, 
and at the time of these interviews, was 
two months behind on those sporadic 
rent payments already. Besides the few 
nonprofit organizations and public 
interest lawyers who do exist, the search 
for justice is an after-hours pursuit. This 
means that the limited activists in the 
city unite at every opportunity. 

Alejandro Torres ’12, a member 
of Movimiento Estudiantil Chicano de 
Aztlian, or MEChA, at Yale, marched 
May 1 with signs for the Workers 
Association and tried to connect it with 
the experiences of the students around 
him. “There are plenty of students, 
especially within MEChA, who have 
immigrant families, some of whom 
have been exploited,” he says. Alan 
Williams, 17, a student at Wilbur Cross 
High School who spoke at the rally 
in support of education reform, also 
agreed to lend his voice to the workers in 
a similar commingling of causes. “I feel 
we’re all struggling,” he says. “Workers, 
many of them are parents, so many of 
our struggles fall back on them.” “It’s 
a chain reaction,” agreed Jazlyn Ocasio, 
a 14-year-old who is also a student at 
Wilbur Cross.

Members of Unidad Latina and 
the New Haven Workers Association 
also joined in on chants in favor of 
better education and national peace as 
they made their way through the march, 
doing their part to contribute to other 


--- Page 23 ---

23
September 2011
Institutions engaging in wage theft 
and illegal employment practices are 
hard to spot from the outside. Cafe 
Goodfellas restaurant, for example, 
received a laudatory write-up for its food 
and service in The New York Times within 
a month of the Department of Labor 
filing claims against its owner on behalf 
of ten workers who had not been paid 
properly. The renowned Rocco’s Bakery 
still has lines out the door when it opens 
in the morning, despite the owner 
pleading guilty to criminal charges for 
his employment practices in January. 
Hayre, the attorney at New Haven Legal 
Aid, said, “It’s maddening, because it’s 
right under your nose.”

But if Megan Fountain, a co-
organizer of Unidad Latina, has any 
influence on the situation, that invisibility 
TNJ
Jessica Cole is a senior in Pierson 
College.
Cafe Goodfellas 
received a 
laudatory write-up 
for its food and 
service in The 
New York Times 
within a month of 
the Department 
of Labor filing 
claims against its 
owner on behalf 
of ten workers 
who had not been 
paid properly.
causes. Meanwhile, the giant puppets 
that Aranda had spent hours creating 
were so large that they needed three 
people each to hold up their limbs. Their 
faces—a chef, an agricultural worker, 
and a construction worker—bobbed and 
weaved above the crowd throughout the 
afternoon.

The alliances between New Haven’s 
limited number of activists also means 
that the same people show up at very 
different events. Luis Luna, who hoisted 
a New Haven Workers Association sign 
above his head with one arm and pumped 
his fist with the other, spoke in favor of 
workers as he marched across the city. 
“I think we have to make a presence 
[in honor of May Day],” he said. “Most 
employers are paying a couple of dollars 
less [than they should] to the workers…
They have to realize that workers can’t 
live on minimum wage.” The last time 
that he had been quoted by a reporter, 
Luna was at a protest against police 
brutality and had filed his own complaint 
against the department for interfering 
with his right to videotape the actions of 
officers. 

Garaffa is among New Haven’s 
regular revolutionaries. He is also one of 
its many activists with a day job. Garaffa, 
who showed up in square glasses and a 
gray striped collared shirt with a phone 
in his front pocket, earns his paycheck 
as a software developer. During evenings 
and weekends, though, he is the leader 
of the local Party for Socialism and 
Liberation and was one of the original 
founders of the New Haven Workers 
Association. “I write software to pay 
my bills, but my purpose is activism and 
making the world better,” he says.

Garaffa was first drawn into the 
activism community in 2003 when he 
decided to join a protest against the 
Iraq War. Garaffa is often the one to 
give a pep talk to workers within the 
organization in an attempt to get them 
to attend a protest on behalf of another 
set of complainants. “Today we fought 
for you,” he tells them at the end of 
every case. “Tomorrow, we hope you’ll 
join us to fight for someone else.”

will soon change. She, along with other 
organizers from Unidad Latina and 
the New Haven Workers Association, 
held a press conference at the start 
of the summer to announce that the 
organization will spend the upcoming 
months coming up with a system 
to publicly announce and celebrate 
restaurants who do manage to achieve 
fair labor standards. She wants to prove 
that the commonly-held view that service 
industry businesses cannot afford to pay 
workers minimum wage and remain 
competitive is a myth. Ultimately, the 
organizers hope to convince lawmakers 
to pass a bill akin to New York State’s 
2010 Wage Theft Prevention Act. “We 
are not done transforming the restaurant 
industry in New Haven. This is just the 
beginning,” said Fountain.

Palma, who found a new job during 
his time protesting Downtown at the 
Taft, now spends far more hours with 
his family than he used to. He receives 
fair wages and is able to continue 
pursuing his passion for pastry-making. 
Yet despite his newfound gains, he is 
determined not to let anyone forget 
about what happened to him and his 
coworkers, and what happens to other 
workers in other places. “We started to 
find out that it doesn’t just happen to 
us, it happens to people around New 
Haven, around the country. It happens 
everywhere,” he says. 
“We are good people. We do the 
right thing. We have to fight for all of 
these people.”



--- Page 24 ---

24
The New Journal
Susan Wolfson had not had a bath 
in almost a month. A broken 
right arm—combined with large 
tumor masses in her abdomen that 
were obstructing her intestine, and 
one in particular that was pressing on 
the nerves to her right leg, causing her 
intense pain—meant that a bath was an 
almost insurmountable task. And for 
Susan Wolfson, that’s saying something.

Mrs. Wolfson was a lawyer known 
for getting things done. She began 
practicing law in 1976, and soon rose 
through the ranks, becoming President 
of the New Haven Bar Association, 
then the Connecticut Bar Association, 
and finally serving as an officer of 
the national family law section of the 
American Bar Association. The New 
Haven County Bar Association honored 
her with its lifetime achievement award 
posthumously in 2005. The award 
typically goes to someone who has been 
in practice for forty years, and she had 
worked for less than thirty. 	

Mrs. Wolfson was an expert at 
dispute resolution—if there was anyone 
who could keep clients filing for divorce 
out of a long, protracted, and costly 
court battle, it was she. She even helped 
found an alternative dispute resolution 
company, a mediation service called Sta-
Fed ADR, Inc. 
“A prominent source of referrals 
Opponents of looser hospice 
regulations say they’ll mean the end of 
good care for those nearing death.
By Katie Falloon
Bathing Mrs. Wolfson



**Title: A Bath, a Song, and a Fight Over Hospice Care**
**Author: Brianne Bowen**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
September 2011
for her were spouses who had been 
on the other side of her cases,” said 
Steven Wolfson, her husband of forty-
five years. The two met at a party their 
freshman year of college, when Susan 
was at Barnard and Steven at Columbia, 
and they’ve been together ever since.


Even after Mrs. Wolfson was 
diagnosed with ovarian cancer, she 
continued to work until 2004, when 
she finally had to retire. And then, 
after a long, hard battle—she had first 
been diagnosed six years earlier—Mrs. 
Wolfson decided that it was time to stop 
fighting and start living.


By then, she could no longer eat 
due to the masses that had spread 
throughout her abdomen. The contents 
of her stomach had to be continually 
suctioned out through a special machine. 
She couldn’t walk. She was in a great 
deal of pain when she finally suggested a 
transfer from Yale-New Haven Hospital 
to Connecticut Hospice, a facility in 
Branford devoted to end of life and 
palliative care, a facility to which Dr. 
Wolfson, a cardiologist, often refers his 
patients.


There are four levels of hospice 
care, ranging from the lowest level called 
routine care, in which a patient receives 
support services such as visits from a 
nurse to their own home, to the highest 
level of care, in which the patient is cared 
for in an inpatient unit. The Richard L. 
Rosenthal Hospice Center in Stamford 
provides inpatient hospice care but 
is licensed as a skilled nursing facility, 
while inpatient services at Middlesex 
Hospice and Palliative Care are provided 
on the top floor of Middlesex Hospital. 
Currently, CT Hospice is the only facility 
in Connecticut licensed specifically as a 
hospice to provide all four levels of care.


Just days after her arrival there, Mrs. 
Wolfson finally got what she had spent 
four weeks of her life longing for: a bath.


It took three nurses’ aides to do it, 
and a nurse about fifteen feet away if 
anything should go wrong. Together, 
the three aides used a hoist to raise 
Mrs. Wolfson up, and then they slowly 
lowered her into a giant tub filled with 
hot water, a tub that looked to Dr. 
Wolfson rather like a Jacuzzi.


Mrs. Wolfson loved it, and the bath 
soon became a regular occurrence, with 
the nurses singing her songs while they 
bathed her. Their favorite, Dr. Wolfson 
fondly recalled several years later, was 
“You Are My Sunshine.” 


The melody of the song is simple, 
and so too is the chorus. First recorded 
in 1939, it is a song parents still sing 
to their toddlers as they tuck them in 
at night. Yet, it seems especially suited 
not only for those whose lives are just 
beginning, but also for those whose lives 
are drawing to a close.


And so as the nurses cleaned Mrs. 
Wolfson’s broken body, as they gently 
scrubbed her with soap and then let the 
warm water wash over her frail limbs, 
carrying away the dirt and grime of a 
daily battle with cancer, they sang:
You are my sunshine,
My only sunshine.
You make me happy
When skies are gray.
You’ll never know, dear,
How much I love you.
Please don’t take my sunshine away.


O
f course, giving Mrs. Wolfson such 
a bath once, let alone multiple 
times, was a very labor-intensive process. 

A statue on the grounds of CT Hospice.


--- Page 26 ---

26
The New Journal
It meant that three fewer nurses’ aides 
were available to the fifty-two other 
patients that CT Hospice might be caring 
for on any given day. It meant that there 
had to be a nurse not only on duty, but 
also available should anything go wrong. 
“Standard nursing home levels of 
care would not have been able to do this, 
in short,” Dr. Wolfson said.  


If Dr. Wolfson is right, many 
patients like his wife won’t be getting 
such baths in the future. For the first time 
since the establishment of regulations 
governing hospice care, the Department 
of Public Health has proposed changes 
that would make the regulations more 
in line with those governing standard 
nursing home care.


Regulations for hospice care were 
first put into effect in 1977, when CT 
Hospice sought to open its doors. CT 
Hospice was the first hospice in the 
country to open, and the regulations 
were tailored specifically to it. They 
were especially strict because the idea 
of a facility devoted to end of life care 
was so novel and because people feared 
for the wellbeing of those nearing their 
final days. Pages were devoted just to the 
kinds of arts programming the facility 
would need to provide. 


The proposed regulations seek to 
modernize the delivery of hospice care 
and increase access. In order to do so, 
they relax the previous regulations—for 
instance, an onsite pharmacy would no 
longer be required. Another change is 
the replacement of a nurse to patient 
ratio of one to six with the requirement 
that facilities have “sufficient” staffing 
and services. “Sufficient” means there 
will still be a Registered Nurse present 
twenty-four hours a day, with additional 
staff available based on how many 
patients are at a given facility and what 
their medical needs are, explains Tracy 
Wodatch, vice president of clinical and 
regulatory services at the Connecticut 
Association for Homecare and Hospice, 
of which all twenty-nine hospices in the 
state are members. 


Costs were not a major factor in 
the changes made to the regulations, 
said Deborah Hoyt, president and 
CEO of the Connecticut Association 
for Homecare and Hospice. Medicare 
tends to reimburse patients for hospice 
care on a case-by-case basis depending 
on the amount of time they stay and the 
degree of care they need, she said. Still, 
some of the proposed changes, such as 
the elimination of an onsite pharmacy, 
could save money for facilities and 
patients alike, Hoyt added. 


Many worry, however, that the 
relaxation of these regulations, and 
especially the elimination of required 
nurse to patient ratios, will be detrimental 
to the health and well being of the 


“The parts that for me are the most 
problematic are the nurse to patient 
ratios, and then among the nurses the 
percentage that are RNs versus [Licensed 
Practical 
Nurses],” 
said 
Elizabeth 
Bradley, a professor of public health 
and nursing at the Yale School of Public 
Health. The ability of a nurse to think 
ahead, to anticipate and reason in terms 
of diagnostics, “makes a huge difference 
for the patient,” she said, and RNs are 
more qualified nurses. While RNs need a 
four-year degree, LPNs need only about 
a year of study. 


Dr. Wolfson agrees that the 
importance of set staffing levels 
should not be underestimated. “The 
people  who are referred for inpatient 
care at an inpatient hospice facility are 
not only dying, they’re also critically ill,” 
he said. “If the goal is for them to die in 
comfort, then a good staffing coverage 
level is vital.”


And though proponents of the 
regulations argue that staffing levels will 
still be strong, just less strictly managed, 
opponents of the regulations are far 
from convinced.


“With language like ‘sufficient’ staff 
with no definition of what that means, 
the whole reputation of hospice care that 
lets people die with dignity goes out the 
window,” said Luis Gonsalez, director 
of planning, training, and research at 
CT Hospice in the John D. Thompson 
Hospice Institute.


Ronny Knight, the senior vice 
president of CT Hospice, has statistics 
that perhaps give credence to Mr. 
Gonsalez’s assertion. According to a 
2007 study by the Hospice Association 
of America, the average nurse to patient 
ratio for an inpatient unit was one RN 
to 8.6 patients, the ratio at a hospice 
residence was one nurse to twenty-seven 
patients, and the ratio at CT Hospice is 
one nurse to six patients, he testified at 
an April 4 Department of Public Health 
hearing about the proposed regulations. 
In other words, at CT Hospice, nurses 
are responsible for far fewer patients 
than nurses at other facilities. 


“There’s nothing in these regulations 
to prevent this minimal standard of care 
other than a discretionary directive to 
provide sufficient staffing. This latitude 
will assure more profit, less staffing 
and less care as a likely outcome,” he 
continued. 


More simply, some fear that fewer 
nurses mean fewer chances for patients 
to feel clean and cared for. 

“With language 
like ‘sufficient’ 
staff with no 
definition 
of what that
means, the whole 
reputation of hos­
pice care that lets 
people die with
dignity goes out 
the window.” 


--- Page 27 ---

27
Shatreen Masshoor ’12 has had 
experience with facilities that don’t have 
adequate staffing. She hopes to someday 
become a doctor, and she took time 
off from school to become a Certified 
Nurse Assistant and work at a skilled 
nursing facility in Washington state for 
a little over a year. Now, she volunteers 
at CT Hospice for three hours once a 
week during the school year, and she 
can see the difference in care provided 
at the two facilities. She remembers 
coming in to the skilled nursing facility 
one day and finding a patient who hadn’t 
been checked on all night. The patient 
had multiple bowel movements and a 
wet bed, something she has yet to see at 
CT Hospice. And while patients at the 
skilled nursing facility in Washington 
state were only washed a couple times 
a week, at CT Hospice everyone gets at 
least a bed bath every day, she added. 


 “It seems like they’re pretty on 
point about it,” Masshoor said.


T
he proposed changes in the state 
regulations were prompted by 
changes to federal standards, Wodatch 
said. All hospices must comply not 
only with state standards but also with 
federal ones, specifically the Medicare 
Conditions of Participation, which were 
updated in 2008. They must also comply 
with Connecticut Home Health Care 
Regulations. 


The Department of Public Health 
is currently in the process of reviewing 
the proposed changes, spokesman for 
the department William Gerrish said. 
Twenty-eight hospices in Connecticut 
support them, and CT Hospice opposes 
them. The hearing April 4 was held 
so that the Department of Public 
Health could hear testimony about the 
regulations, and over fifty individuals 
spoke.


After reviewing the testimony and 
making any changes it sees as necessary, 
the DPH will send the regulations to the 
attorney general’s office, Gerrish said. 
From there, the regulations will go to 
the regulations review committee for 
final approval. The regulations will be 
implemented upon the approval of the 
committee, he said.


Modernization, streamlining care, 
creating a more home-like environment, 
and improving access are the main goals 
of the proposed changes, Wodatch said. 
The new regulations are more patient-
based, focusing on quality outcomes 
rather than specific guidelines, she said. 
Although hospices would no longer need 
to meet certain nurse to patient ratios, 
they still would need to meet quality 
outcome assessments and standards, she 
said.


“1977 to now is light years away,” 
said Carol Mahier, executive director 
of Hospice Southeastern Connecticut, 
which last year serviced 629 patients in 
New London county and is planning to 
open a new facility under the proposed 
regulations. 


In addition, according to the 
latest data from the National Hospice 
Palliative Care Organization, nearly one 
in five hospice agencies in the country 
operate an inpatient unit or facility. 
Those numbers mean that out of the 
county’s five thousand hospice facilities, 
one thousand have an inpatient unit, 
Wodatch said at the April 4 hearing. 
Only one of those is in Connecticut, she 
added. That facility is CT Hospice, and 
proponents of the regulations say that 
it alone is not enough, even when the 
two other facilities in Middlesex and in 
Stamford that have inpatient units but 
are not licensed as hospices are taken 
into account. Wodatch pointed out 
during the April 4 hearing that while 
the average national time for a patient 
to spend in hospice is seventy-one days, 
Connecticut ranks last in the country, 
with an average stay of only forty-eight 
days.


Moreover, the need for hospice 
care continues to rise. Demand for 
hospice care is growing at a rate of nine 
percent per year, Hoyt wrote in a letter 
to the editor published in the New Haven 
Register.  


“Patients can be placed in a hospital, 
but that is not where somebody usually 
wants to die,” Mahier said, adding that a 
nursing home is also not really a place a 
40-year-old who is dying would want to 
be either. “A residence is what’s needed,” 
she said.


If the new regulations were to 
pass, the Rosenthal Center would apply 
immediately for a new license as a 
hospice, and Hospice of Southeastern 
Connecticut and Regional Hospice 
of Western Connecticut are among 
the facilities that would attempt to put 
a freestanding facility up, Wodatch 
said. The new facilities would mean 
that patients in counties such as New 
London wouldn’t have to drive hours to 
visit loved ones at CT Hospice.


Opponents of the regulations, 
however, argue that the claim for the 
need for access is unwarranted. Hospice 
facilities can offer patients rooms in 
both hospitals and nursing homes—
indeed, CT Hospice has two to three 
beds in many hospitals on reserve—and 
so any patient who needs inpatient care 
can find it relatively easily, Gonsalez said. 


In fact, Bradley says there isn’t 
really an access problem at all. Bradley 
has done research on hospice care for 
over a decade, looking at what makes 
people choose hospice, why hospices are 
underutilized, and the effectiveness of 
hospice programs across the country.


Her research has shown that  ninety 
percent of all patients in Connecticut 
are within thirty minutes of access to 
a hospice. “For me, I don’t really see 
the positive of making the legislation 
looser,” she said.


In fact, her research indicates 
that Connecticut is one of the four 
best states in the country for hospice 
care. Connecticut exceeds the federal 
Medicare standard, she said. “It’s really

Brianne Bowen



**Title: The Fight Over Hospice Care**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
28
The New Journal
a flagship.”
In addition, staff members at CT 
Hospice argue that no one is stopping 
the other hospices from opening 
facilities under the old regulations if they 
feel they’re necessary, regardless of what 
may be written on websites or published 
in letters to the editor in newspapers 
such as the New Haven Register.
 “There has been misleading media 
insinuating that Connecticut Hospice 
has had a monopoly on inpatient hospice 
care and that in some way we have 
restricted access to patients and families 
in Connecticut. Let us all be honest in 
this room. Every hospice in Connecticut 
must provide inpatient level care in order 
to have their hospice license. There is 
access. Similar to Connecticut Hospice, 
no one has kept you from becoming 
licensed under [the current regulations],” 
said Susan Flannigan, director of hospice 
at CT Hospice, at the April hearing. “No 
one has denied the patients and families 
access to this level of care except your 
organization.”
For Dr. Wolfson, this particular 
part of the debate is in many ways not 
relevant. CT Hospice is about a twenty- 
to thirty-minute drive from his home. 
Still, he considers quality of care to be 
worth more than any commute.  
“I would’ve gone three hours if it 
had been necessary,” he said.
D
iana Stoianov ’13, one of the more 
than five hundred volunteers at 
CT Hospice, began her weekly shift as 
a volunteer by stopping in to check on 
a group of patients. At CT Hospice, 
four patients usually live together in 
one room, though any patient with an 
infectious disease is transferred to a 
private room to avoid contamination. 
Three of the four patients in the room 
she was checking in on were sleeping. 
She could hear them breathing with a 
death rattle—a gurgling, choking sound 
dying patients often make as saliva 
begins to accumulate in their throats—
but that wasn’t what surprised her. After 
almost two years of volunteer work she 
was quite accustomed to that sound.
What surprised her was the fourth 
patient in the last bed on the right, who 
was sitting in a chair watching the news 
on TV not in the hospice gown but 
instead in ordinary clothes. Stoianov 
was not used to seeing patients who 
were well enough to get out of bed—
usually if someone gets up on their own, 
she feels an almost automatic sense of 
alarm.
The patient was a middle-aged man, 
and she sat down to talk with him. She 
didn’t know what was wrong with him—
volunteers never are told why patients 
are dying, just that they are—but they 


---

29
September 2011
connected over a discussion of how 
ludicrous the news sometimes becomes. 
At the time of her visit, the revolution 
was taking place in Egypt, but the news 
station was broadcasting another piece 
about celebrities. They chatted for a 
while, something she said nurses would 
love to do with patients but never really 
have time for. And then it hit her.
The patient seemed to her like 
a “normal person,” and she was in a 
place filled with people who were more 
obviously dying. Across the room were 
patients struggling just to fill their lungs 
with oxygen, and she suddenly felt 
the need to be elsewhere, to be doing 
something other than sitting and talking 
with a man who seemed just fine. She 
turned to the patient, told him it was 
nice to meet him, and got up to leave. 
“It was nice meeting you too,” he told 
her. “Stop by whenever you have time.”
As Stoianov walked out of the 
room, she looked back once more and 
saw the man, sitting in a room filled with 
people so sick they couldn’t interact with 
him at all, and she felt a new wave of 
emotion wash over her. She imagined 
how lonely and scared he must have been 
feeling at that moment, and though she 
continued with the rest of her volunteer 
duties—washing other patients, stopping 
to peek in other rooms, carrying out the 
trash—she couldn’t stop feeling guilty 
for leaving him behind.
The debate about the new proposed 
hospice regulations is really out of 
Stoianov’s 
realm—volunteering 
at 
hospice has been one of the formative 
experiences of her time at Yale, but 
when she graduates she does not plan 
to seek out hospice work. Volunteering 
at CT Hospice has been a singular 
moment in her life, Stoianov said, and 
she wants to do as much as she can in 
her four years of college before moving 
on to the next chapter. Part of her 
doubt about continuing to volunteer at 
a hospice hinges on the fact that she 
probably won’t stay in Connecticut after 
graduating, and she can’t really imagine 
volunteering somewhere other than CT 
Hospice. 
When Stoianov went back to CT 
Hospice to volunteer again, as coverage 
of Libya competed with news of the 
royal wedding, she stopped in on the 
patient she had once watched TV with. 
He was in bed, in the hospice gown, 
sleeping, and she didn’t disturb him. 
	
M
any of the arguments against 
the proposed regulations are 
emotional ones, Mahier said. People 
get so caught up, so worried, they don’t 
think about the facts, she added. 
“Everything 
that’s 
being 
said 
about how these regulations will lessen 
care, these are all not true. When we 
meet those negative statements, and 
when you look at the [Department of 
Public Health] who wrote them, and 
the twenty-eight hospices who support 
them, it is surprising,” Mahier said. “I 
guess it’s about not having competition. 
I don’t know what it is.”
The statements about the lowered 
quality of care are ones she classifies 
as troubling. “I’ve done this for twenty-
four years. Why would I ever want to do 
anything less than the best for someone 
who’s dying?” she said.
Gerard Lamoureux, a certified nurse 
aide at Regional Hospice, also thinks 
that concerns about lower standards are 
unfounded. “People keep talking about 
substandard care and lower levels of 
care and all that kind of stuff, and I don’t 
think Hospice-R-Us are going to start 
popping up on every corner with this 
regulation,” he testified at the hearing.
Still, even the most staunch 
supporters of the proposed regulations 
are the first to say that CT Hospice is 
a special place. The facility is, at first 
glance, undeniably beautiful. It is situated 
right near the Long Island Sound, and 
each patient bedroom has a massive 
glass window that looks out onto the 
water. There are multiple pianos, and 
music can often be heard floating down 
the hallways. 



30
Through a wooden door carved 
with a tree—the Tree of Life—and 
down the hallway is a small chapel. 
Inside it is a wooden cross, fresh flowers, 
and pale light brown chairs on which to 
sit and pray. A large wooden table in the 
center contains a book filled with long 
strips of paper honoring patients who 
have passed away, with their names and 
words like “Rest in peace” and “We miss 
you” scrawled in cramped, loving letters. 
There is a swimming pool for kids to 
use in the summertime. Each day, the 
carpeting of the elevator is changed 
to display what day of the week it is in 
bright orange letters.
The words “I love you” are painted 
onto one white wall of the cafeteria 
in a myriad of bright colors, over and 
over again in many different languages. 
On another wall, in bold blue letters, is 
written, “Love matters. Hospice nurses 
are #1.” 
Each patient is given a brightly 
covered afghan, made by CT Hospice 
employees, upon arrival, Gonsalez said. 
The afghans can be seen everywhere, 
draped across the low sofas that line 
the hallways, positioned at the end of 
a patient’s bed, or nestled around a frail 
pair of shoulders, a brilliant splash of 
color against pale, translucent skin.
But it’s not just the facilities 
themselves that set CT Hospice apart; 
it’s also the services they offer, the care 
they give to each and every patient.
“CT Hospice has found a way to 
institutionalize love,” Dr. Wolfson said.
A 
few hours after her arrival at CT 
Hospice, Mrs. Wolfson and her 
husband attended a concert, hands 
clasped together. That concert was the 
first of many Mrs. Wolfson attended. 
Though her broken arm limited her, she 
participated in other arts programming 
that CT Hospice offered as well. Her 
own rabbi came to visit her often, but 
she still also participated in the spiritual 
counseling provided by CT Hospice, 
lighting Shabbat candles one Friday 
evening with an evangelical minister 
after he offered to pray with her.
Arts programming and spiritual 
counseling will not be as strictly 
mandated 
under 
the 
proposed 
regulations. Currently, arts programming 
at CT Hospice is taken very seriously. 
There is a full time director, seven paid 
staff, including clinical therapists, and 
forty volunteers, and services are offered 
every day of the year. 
“More 
and 
more 
healthcare 
organizations across the country are 
introducing art and music therapies as 
their advantages become more widely 
known. In contrast, the proposed 
regulations make arts therapies an 
afterthought barely mentioned as a 
remote option under complimentary 
therapies,” testified CT Hospice arts 
programming 
director 
Katherine 
Blossom at the hearing.
Mahier said that though arts 
programming may not be written into 
the regulations, it is still an important part 
of Hospice Southeastern Connecticut. 
“We’ve had an arts room where little 
kids come to work through grief since 
2003,” she said. “It’s integral to what we 
do.” 
But others worry that not every 
hospice will follow through without a 
regulatory mandate.
 “My experience with regulation—
I’ve done other studies as well—is 
actually if you leave it loose, there will be 
some providers will go for the low road 
on that. If you leave it loose, if you say, 
‘Oh it’s up to you if [your] patients want 
arts,’ there will be lot of hospices that 
don’t do it,” Bradley said. 
 Physical therapy isn’t mentioned 
much in the new regulations either, but 
it too was of great importance to Mrs. 
Wolfson. Initially, she could barely get 
out of bed, but after a week or two, she 
was able to take her first steps again. 
Soon, she could walk ten or fifteen feet, 
with her husband trailing behind her 
with a chair so she could sit down when 
she got tired.
 “For someone who is clearly dying, 
this is something that is not necessary, 
but she felt so good about being up,” 
Dr. Wolfson said, highlighting what 
Bradley sees as one of the biggest 
misconceptions about hospice care.  
“A lot of people in the public think 
hospice is the place you go to die,” 
Bradley said. “I think it’s much more 
true that it’s a place to live for the days 
you have left.”
rs. Wolfson was in intense pain 
when she arrived at CT Hospice. 
But within a half-hour of transfer, she 
was very nearly pain free. She was well 
enough to host three parties, one of 
which featured a performance of “You 
Are My Sunshine” by the nurses aides 
who gave her baths, and she was well 
enough to spend time with the hundreds 
of friends who came to visit over the 
course of her five week stay. 
Mrs. Wolfson was given relief so 
quickly because at CT Hospice, a history 
is taken and physical completed by a 
physician within twenty minutes for 
every single one of the three to four 
patients that are admitted each day. The 
new regulations state that the initial 
assessment of a patient should be done 
within forty-eight hours.
“I can’t tell you how critical this is,” 
Bradley said. “Ten to fifteen percent of 
patients will be dead in forty-eight hours. 
[The initial assessment] should be done 
immediately. Forty-eight hours of pain 
when you have terminal cancer? That’s 
out of control. That’s inhumane.”
When asked, Mahier was quick 
to point out that the regulations don’t 
mean patients who need to be seen 
immediately won’t get seen. “It’s standard 
wording,” she said. If every patient had 
to wait forty-eight hours, then the quality 
outcomes of the hospice facility would 
be poor, and the new regulations would 
mean that facility would have to make 
changes. 
Wodatch added that the facility 
has forty-eight hours unless a patient, 
representative, or physician requests 
an expedited time frame, and said that 
immediate needs would also mean 
an immediate assessment under the 
Medicare Conditions of Participation, 
which all hospice facilities across the 
states are required to follow. On the 
other hand, if a patient is not in great 
need, such as a patient living at home 
who would like some hospice assistance, 
an immediate assessment would not be 
necessary, she said.
Another component of hospice 
care that was extremely important to 
Mrs. Wolfson’s well-being in her final 
weeks was the availability of an onsite 
pharmacy so that medications could be 
quickly and adequately administered, Dr. 
Wolfson said.
Proponents say that just because 
there isn’t a pharmacy onsite doesn’t 
mean hospice patients won’t have access 
to medication right away.
Robert 
Tendler, 
a 
consultant 
pharmacist employed by Omnicare 
Company, the nation’s largest provider 
of prescription medications to patients 
in long-term care settings, said he has 
attended 1,200 inter-disciplinary hospice 
team meetings, and simply doesn’t see the 
need for an onsite pharmacy. “I believe 
it would force the cost of maintaining 
inpatient services to skyrocket without 
a realistic benefit to the patient,” he 
testified at the April hearing.
Mahier 
doesn’t 
think 
they’re 



**Title: Hospice Fight**
**Author: Brianne Bowen**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Katie Falloon is a senior in 
Davenport College.
necessary either. Hospice facilities are 
dealing with a finite group of symptoms, 
she said. “This is what we do every day.”
“How many nursing homes do you 
know that have a pharmacy?” she added. 
But James Proto, the head of the 
pharmacy at CT Hospice, said at the 
hearing that he can’t imagine care without 
one. He said he is an active member of 
the interdisciplinary team, doing rounds 
daily with nurses, something he wouldn’t 
be able to do if he weren’t onsite.
And Joseph Farricielli, who was 
involved in the passage of the original 
regulations and says he himself is quite 
familiar with how regulations get written, 
asked those at the hearing to consider 
that changes made today “under the best 
of intentions” to improve access may 
destroy the “high goals that were set in 
motion thiry-two years ago.” 
“There’s 
an 
analogy 
about 
regulations. 
Once 
you 
take 
away 
something or you reduce it sometimes 
it’s hard to bring it back.” he said. “It’s 
like a chair that has a short leg. You can’t 
add to it, you have to cut the other legs. 
And so as we start to eliminate or hack 
away at the regulations we may generally 
reduce the level of care.” 
M
rs. Wolfson’s last bath took place 
at 2 a.m. the night before she died. 
After five weeks of controlled pain, 
her symptoms had begun to return, 
and CT Hospice upped the level of her 
narcotics. For the last two days of her 
life, she slept.
“I think in almost any facility other 
than CT Hospice they would have done 
that to her at the beginning and we 
would’ve all missed the opportunity to 
say goodbye,” Dr. Wolfson said.
But instead, after five weeks with 
her, Mr. Wolfson and his two children—
both in their forties, one living in 
California and working as a Hollywood 
producer and one finishing her doctorate 
in theater studies—took turns spending 
the night with her those last few days. 
And then one night in June of 
2005, as the nurses’ aides made their 
usual late night rounds, they asked Dr. 
Wolfson if he thought Mrs. Wolfson 
would like a sponge bath. He said yes, 
and at their encouragement he helped 
them bathe her. During that bath, the 
nurses saw signs that the end was near, 
and they gently informed Dr. Wolfson. 
He called his children and they came to 
CT Hospice to be with her.
That morning, as the sun slowly 
rose in the sky, orange and welcoming, 
and broke out across the water of the 
sound, turning it sparkling and new, the 
67-year-old Mrs. Wolfson quietly passed 
away. 
On 
a 
morning 
last 
April, 
approximately six years later, Dr. 
Wolfson rose to speak against the 
proposed regulations to hospice care at 
the public hearing. “I urge you not to do 
this,” he testified.
The gate to CT Hospice bears an image of the Tree of Life.


**Title: Hallucinating terrifying new worlds in a schizophrenia lab.**
**Author: Jesse Bradford**
**Page number(s): 32-33**

L
ights pulse in my peripheral 
vision. My eyes invent blobby 
white images, reluctant to give in 
to the darkness. No sound. Cold skin. 
Suddenly a wave of sensation, a slow 
prickling sweat that creeps through my 
torso, my face, my scalp. Then the nausea 
hits. I feel I’m going to retch, but at the 
same time I don’t know what part of my 
body I’d retch with. My only awareness 
is discomfort. As the sensation slowly 
disappears, so do I.
I experience death in a small, gray 
cubicle on the ninth floor of Veterans 
Hospital in West Haven, Conn. Nurses 
watch me through a video monitor; they 
shuffle papers and take notes. A blood 
pressure cuff squeezes my right arm 
and a pulse oximeter hangs from my 
left index finger. One of my IVs draws 
blood samples while the other drips 
saline solution and drugs into my veins. I 
see dull fluorescence when the blindfold 
is removed. I hear beeping machines 
when my earplugs are removed.
I still feel like I can’t quite…I don’t 
know how to look at…
Yeah, I can stand I think but I’d 
rather…sure, yeah I can answer the 
questions…
The researcher is cute. She recites 
without looking at her clipboard.
“Did you have any strange or 
unusual experiences?”
“Um, at one point I thought I was 
dead.”
“Did that worry you at all?” Her 
expression is a mix of surprise and 
concern.
“No, not really. The worst part was 
that I started singing a little song to 
myself, and then I thought, ‘Oh no, I’m 
dead but I can still think! I’m going to be 
stuck repeating this stupid song over and 
over forever!’ That worried me a little.”
She makes a note.
I 
am a human guinea pig for a 
schizophrenia research lab. In the 
last year I’ve been injected more than 
twenty times with different experimental 
substances: 
Salvinorin, 
THC, 
Canabidiol, Amphetamines, Iomazenil. 
Different doses, different combinations. 
I got into drug studies by a friend’s 
recommendation and an online search. I 
figured it was a quick way to make some 
money, and no scientific or humanitarian 
aims inspired my first trip. 
My part of the job is simple. Take 
drugs, sit there and ride out the effects, 
then describe how it felt. The researchers 
assign me cognitive tasks, like repeating 
long lists of numbers backwards or 
pressing colored blocks on a computer 
screen. Often I wear an EEG cap or a
sensory deprivation mask. Always I get 
stuck with needles. Sometimes I lose my 
mind. 
I’m not always sure whether these 
drugs might some day be used to treat 
schizophrenia, or whether they’re meant 
to induce short-term schizophrenia in a 
healthy subject who can wake up and tell 
the researchers what it was like. 
It would be easy to say that I 
continued to do drug studies for the 
money. I can make over forty dollars 
an hour to trip. But even the nurses 
who’ve been working in the lab for years 
tell me that my desire to come back is 
prodigious. The drugs aren’t fun, and 
as I learned more about the debilitating 
and mysterious nature of the disease, 
the possibility of being permanently 
affected by these experiments worried 
me. A little. 
Besides the fact that I like the nurses, 
the bus ride to the hospital, and the free 
physicals, I do it for a voice that I miss. 
I used to hear it in my head when I was 
a child; it had a kind of intonation I’ve 
never heard in real life—a combination 
of gravel and black tar—a bottomless 
dark voice that emanated from behind 
my neck, that wrapped around my skull. 
I could understand what he was saying 
as he spoke, but as soon as he stopped 
I lost the message, like a dream that 
instantly fades.
y nerves light up in an instant, 
then I savor the slow decline 
of adrenaline, feel it dripping away 
throughout my system. “Does that feel 
O.K.?” the nurse asks me. Sometimes it 
does, but my veins are tricky. Often the IV 
doesn’t stick, and I can feel the pressure 
from the saline solution building up in 
my arm, filling cavities and tissues where 
it doesn’t belong. Finally we get the IVs 
to work, tapping veins on the backs of 
my hands.
Sensory deprivation again, and this 
time I watch as the two-dimensional 
darkness in front of my eyes shifts, gains 
a third dimension.  A silver city appears 
like fog rolling in. It stretches out in a 
grid of clear porcelain and stainless 
steel, and suddenly I’m not alone. I feel 
my companion like I used to feel ghosts 
as a child, the ones that made me open 
doors all the way to make sure nothing 
was behind them, the ones that made me 
back up into walls just to be sure nothing 
was following me. But this companion 
is friendly. We move through the city, 
punching from point to point on a stiff 
grid, forward one block, left, forward, 
forward. We are both in control, we 
don’t use words.
Finally we escape the reflective 
canyons and empty streets. We summit 
a hill. But the world is disintegrating 
already, burning off into blackness. I feel 
a touch on my arm, a real touch. It’s time 
to come back.
’ve been fascinated by schizophrenia 
since I was a kid, listening to an NPR 
program in the car with my parents. I 
remember Scott Carrier’s melancholy 
narration: “A person’s soul should be 
like an ocean, but a schizophrenic’s 
soul is like a pool of rain in a parking 
lot.” He spoke about voices, people 
believing they are the devil, that all the 
evil in the world is their fault. Sisters 
and sons suddenly aren’t themselves, 
mothers have sex with angels. I haven’t 
gotten over the sense of wonder I felt, 
that people could have an idea of reality 
incongruous with everything around 
them. And the fear that our minds can 
turn against us so savagely.
After that I used to wait for insanity, 
sure it would hit any day. In a strange 
sadistic way I wanted it to happen. I 
wished I could sometimes say, “I can’t 
help it.” I watched kids in middle school 
who rode skateboards, spray-painted 
the walls, jumped on people’s backs, 
screamed in the hallway. They wore 
spikes and weird clothes, they listened to 
music I couldn’t understand. Everything 
about them seemed to be organized by 
some strange logic that was singularly 
their own. I wanted a similar compulsion, 
an inner force that I didn’t understand 
and was powerless to change. Being a 
sane, detached observer doesn’t really 
give you a flavor.
My mind has since hardened. I’ve 
lost the inner voice from my youth. 
Sometimes I don’t even hear the real 
voices around me. I’ve had friends 
sobbing in my arms while I counted 
ceiling tiles. I got a tattoo on my ribs 
and barely felt it. The world just doesn’t 
get to me, so I found a way to inject a 
different one. When I’m there I build 
cities, I meet people, I am a machine, I 
am part of it all. I don’t enjoy myself 
in the schizophrenic state, but I need 
the time I spend there. I try to find 
books to better understand what I’m 
experiencing, but I’m no scientist, so I 
end up mythologizing it even further, 
reading the theories of Julian Jaynes, the 
philosophy of Deleuze and Guattari, 
and the memoirs of Judge Schreber. 
But as with all forms of tourism, what 
I experience is far from the truth of the 
condition.
finish 
another 
of 
the 
endless 
questionnaires and sit in the hospital 
bed listening to the man in the next 
cubicle. He sounds middle-aged. As 
he responds to the same questions 
I’ve just answered, I realize he must be 
schizophrenic. I trace the contours of 
his mind with every detail he gives that 
seems strange. His answers droop with 
exhaustion and seethe with characters he 
can’t escape. I can understand him only 
when he gets emotional and raises his 
voice. “…Nothing works for me…bad 
man in Hamden…I feel worthless…
My brother made it and I didn’t!” He 
mentions the multitude of voices he 
hears every day. He talks about them like 
they exist. He says they hate him.
At the end of the day the man is 
asked to rate his day on a scale of one 
to ten, with ten being the worst day of 
his life. He gives it a seven. I munch my 
sandwich and ask the nurse if I can sign 
up for another study.



**Title: SNAPSHOT Horse Sense**
**Author: Cindy Ok**
**Page number(s): 34-35**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
A turn on the newly restored carousel at 
Lighthouse Park.


The New Journal
since 1924 and evacuated the horses due 
to weather for the first time this August. 
As Hurricane Irene approached, the 
parks department had special movers 
dismantle the carousel and place the 
pieces into trucks to move them offsite. 
The horses were transported back a few 
days later. 
The city had moved the herd before, 
in the late seventies, when it could 
not afford the carousel’s operation. 
Unlike other municipalities affected by 
the depression, New Haven kept the 
horses in storage. The mayor formed 
a group in 1980 called the Friends of 
the Carousel that systematically raised 
money to resurrect, repaint, and refresh 
the carousel. The group succeeded, and 
the carousel reopened in 1983. 
The sixty-eight horsetails are real 
horsetails, the horses hand-painted tin, 
and the gold paint 24-carat gold leaf. 
Four years ago, the set of horses was 
quartered and taken out in sections to 
be refurbished and repainted. The last 
quarter was finished and placed this 
April, completing the renovation at 
thirty-two hundred dollars a horse. The 
running price for a ride is fifty cents. 
In the 1920s, that golden age of 
radio, sports, and carousels, there were 
ten thousand carousels around the 
country like the one in this pavilion 
on the southeast side of New Haven. 
Carousels once were driven by steam. 
Today, there are fewer than 150 running 
and open to the public.
The nearest carousel to New Haven’s 
used to be the one at West Haven’s Savin 
Rock Park, but that carousel’s pieces 
were sold in 1971 to Magic Mountain, the 
Six Flags amusement park in Valencia, 
California. Savin Rock Park once had 
seven carousels and was considered the 
Disneyland of its day from the 1890s 
until the Great Depression. Upon paying 
three hundred and fifty thousand dollars 
for the set of forty-seven horses, plus 
one thousand dollars for shipping, the 
California amusement park immediately 
cast fiberglass duplicates of the horses 
and sold off the originals at prices 
rumored to be extravagant. 
Event and Project Coordinator for 
the Department of Parks Sabrina Bruno 
estimates that New Haven’s carousel is 
worth up to three million dollars post-
renovation, or roughly forty thousand 
a horse. (Even an outstanding Arabian 
racehorse costs ten to twenty thousand 
dollars.) 
Some 
New 
Haven 
residents 
remember a relatively recent age of 
chipped paint and sad-looking horses. 
All are invited to the one hundred year 
anniversary celebration next spring to 
see the horses show off their new coats. 
The anniversary was technically this year, 
but additional fundraising will necessarily 
precede the festivities, set tentatively for 
the first weekend in May.
The parks department’s operation 
is seasonal, running March to October, 
with about eighty events each year. The 
aim is to make the carousel and the 
lighthouse financially self-sufficient, but 
the bigger goal is to preserve love for 
these local spots. Some of the history 
of the carousel is lost already, frustrating 
carousel aficionados turned scholars like 
Peter Malia, originally of West Haven, 
where Lighthouse Point’s horses were 
hand-carved by two master carvers 
he considers the Michaelangelos of 
carousel horse carving. 
“People consider them folk art, 
but you have to go see these horses 
to understand that these aren’t just 
folk art. They’re highly sophisticated 
wooden sculptures, not ones you’d find 
at a country fair,” said Malia, author of 
Flying Horses: The Golden Age of  American 
Carousel Art, 1870-1930.
Malia’s is the first fully documented 
history 
of 
carousels 
in 
America. 
He published the book last year in 
conjunction with the New England 
Carousel Museum in Bristol, Conn. 
New Haven’s herd is considered one of 
the best and most beautiful carousels 
anywhere, Malia said. 
The main draw for park visitors, 
however, is not historical, though Bruno 
assures that there are and always will be a 
few carousel buffs. The free parking and 
use of the park for New Haven residents 
(and twenty-dollar flat rate per day for 
other Connecticut residents) bring 
families, some of whom come weekly 
in the summer as they try to escape 
the heat. The carousel runs at ten miles 
an hour, slightly higher than average 
carousel speeds, Malia said. Regulations 
tend to limit speeds at six to twelve miles 
an hour.  
Annette Lilly has lived in New 
Haven her whole life and visits the 2,200-
acre park every weekend, sometimes 
twice a weekend. 
“We live in New Haven. Nothing 
else to do but come here,” she said. She 
visits with her husband, sometimes her 
children and her granddaughter. Her 
daughter-in-law had her baby shower in 
the park, by the beach. Lilly’s connection 
to the place stems from ennui for 
everything else New Haven more than 
interest in this particular landmark. 
“I used to love New Haven,” she said 
listlessly. “It’s been so many years.”
Out-of-state visitors pay thirty 
dollars per car for the park’s proximity 
to the Long Island Sound and the harbor 
lighthouse (also called Five Mile Point 
Light for its five-mile distance from the 
New Haven Green). One family reunion 
this summer involved almost one 
hundred family members spread over 
five generations for a cookout. Elaine 
Jones and her family drove more than 
seven hundred miles from Charlotte, 
North Carolina, and were glad they did.
“It’s a family-oriented park and 
it has the water, it has the carousel—
everything you might be looking for 
when you got a lot of little children, 
grandchildren, 
great-grandchildren,” 
Jones said.
She sent off these young family 
members with a fifty-cent fare and 
watched them shout ‘Hi, Mama! Hi, 
Nana! Hi!’ and wave hysterically each 
time they came around to the front, 
where she stood and waved and made 
faces back. As the children got off the 
carousel, they ran toward her, asking, 
“Remember when I said ‘Hi’ to you? 
Remember? Do you?” and then ran past 
her.
Carazmia Buonome-Scott, age 4, 
finds herself absorbed from time to 
time in the carousel’s spin. She takes a 
bus with her grandmother and her sister 
and then leaves them behind to mount a 
favorite horse she has knighted Bluesy. 
“Well, I named him that!” she 
declares. Bluesy is white and gold, with 
pink and green trim. Carazmia rides 
him every Saturday and plays on the 
playground, a recent addition to the 
park. 
projects 
like 
these 
are 
funded in part by events at the park. 
A wedding between two Yale history 
PhD candidates included a history of 
Lighthouse Point Park handwritten in 
segments on the back of old postcards 
with pictures of the park starting in the 
1900s, which the couple had collected 
over many months at old bookstores. 
Events in the glassed pavilion often have 
such themes or motifs.
“We’re fortunate in that people 
who are looking for a unique venue are 
also unique themselves,” Bruno said. 
“The brides we get may have the same 
nervousness as other brides, but they 
have new thoughts, and totally different 
ideas for their weddings.”
The white pavilion includes a dance 
floor, a ceiling with delicate paper balls 
dangling casually across, and round 
white wooden tables and chairs. And, of 
course, the carousel.
Feel free to look any of these sixty-
eight horses in the mouth. Each horse is 
treated, sometimes daily if weather and 
use warrant it, by careful hands reaching 
a special solution into the crevices of the 
body. The horsetails are washed, treated, 
wiped, and dried individually twice a 
year, at the beginning and end of riding 
season. 
The carousel currently at Lighthouse 
Point Park was built in 1912 and installed 
in 1916 in the white-walled Victorian-
style pavilion behind the historical 
lighthouse on the beach. The New 
Haven Department of Parks, Recreation 
and Trees has operated the carousel 



--- Page 36 ---

“People come from all over asking 
us, ‘Do we actually get to ride that? Is 
that actually going to run for us?’” 
Bruno said. “What happens is that they 
sometimes rent it because they have a 
lot of children in the wedding party or 
because they decided to have children at 
their weddings, and it’s not the children 
that ride, it’s the adults. Everyone has so 
much fun.”
The money not allocated for staff 
salaries goes into a special enterprise 
fund that supports the constant upkeep 
of the sixty-eight horses. The park also 
makes money on an outdoor adventure 
program, offering activities including 
canoeing, kayaking, mountain biking, 
and a ropes course, at subsidized costs, 
usually about half the costs of private, 
for-profit programs. The park runs 
camps for kids all summer in conjunction 
with this program.
The semi-commercial model is 
unusual and complicated, but it protects 
the department from budget cuts, which 
the parks department suffers before 
most other public departments.
“It’s a labor of love,” Bruno said. 
“And it’s all dedication by the people 
of the city of New Haven, particularly 
under the stewardship of this parks 
department.”
And though the carousel’s future 
may lie in the waving hands of younger 
generation, its maintenance falls to these 
staff. “The carousel is really something 
to be cherished and loved and of course 
the more children we expose to it, the 
greater chances that they’ll care the way 
we have, as we move on and they move 
up,” Bruno said. 
Staff 
members 
become 
easily 
attached to the park system and to 
Lighthouse Point Park.
“It’s just a gem, in my own way of 
looking at it,” said parks staff member 
Dean Graham.
The eighty events a year occupy 
the staff, who wear neon yellow shirts 
marking them as parks department 
employees during the day, but white dress 
shirts and black pants at night, when 
their pay comes from the enterprise 
fund. 
“There’s always something to do, 
there’s always something going on 
around here with all these busy weekends 
and holidays and family reunions,” 
Graham said. “We clean up, set up, clean 
up, set up, clean up again, ‘round and 
‘round and ‘round.”
TNJ
Cindy Ok is a sophomore in 
Pierson College.



**Title: CRITICAL ANGLE**
**Author: Sanjena Sathian**
**Page number(s): 37-38**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I knew something was wrong with the way the kids in my carpool looked at the turbaned man behind the counter of the gas station in Atlanta, Ga., my hometown. I also knew he was Sikh and Punjabi—from India, like my parents—by the long, uncut beard and turban he wore and the lively bhangra dance music playing behind the counter. 

He was Sikh, like Balbir Singh Sodhi, who owned a gas station in Mesa, Ariz., and who was shot to death on Sept. 15, 2001. Like Surinder Singh and Gurmej Atwal, two elderly men shot and killed on their evening stroll in Elk Grove, Calif. in March 2011.

I remember smiling at the man behind the counter of the gas station one afternoon in the middle of September 2001. It was a secret smile I shared sometimes with strangers, like the substitute teacher whose shiny black hair and British accent caught the attention of the whole middle school. The smile whispered of wrinkled sari-clad grandmothers and samosas for lunch on Saturday afternoons after long drives to temple. 

My carpool companions looked at him flatly. They stared at his turban. I heard one of them say the date that had been hanging in our minds for a few days, since the morning when a nurse at the orthodontist’s office stopped time for a moment—her hands still groping around my gums—at 8:51 a.m. to tell me what had just happened. 

I accepted the extra piece of chocolate he slid me. I imagined a young cousin or grown-up daughter whose smile he remembered in mine. My classmates bought their gum and smacked it in the green SUV as we headed back to our brick and stucco street and traded 10-year-old knowledge of our time. 

“An Arab,” said one. “Like the plane crashers. They wear those turbans.” 

I thought of correcting him. But then he turned to me and whispered, like he was promising he wouldn’t tell anyone if I said yes—“Isn’t that where your parents lived? Over there?” 

My parents had lived “over there”—someplace, anyway, though not exactly where this boy thought they lived. My family is Hindu, and the man at the gas station was Sikh. My parents came to America in 1987. I have been leaving America ever since: sometimes to visit family in India, and sometimes to other places.

Nearly ten years later, in the summer of 2011, I found myself again paused in transit, this time at an airport in Frankfurt. I felt a familiar stare from the woman sitting to my left.


The blonde woman was an American, with a German husband. Her light eyes were roving, taking in the scarf I’d pulled around my hair to help it survive thirty hours in transit. They saw the New Balance sneakers, the iPod headphones, the small notebook in my hand, filled with looping, foreign script—a weak attempt at practicing writing in Hindi.

A dark woman sat on my other side. Her sari was pulled tight around her shoulders and she wore a dark silk scarf pulled neatly into a hijab over her hair.

Both women’s eyes missed the blue passport in my lap.

The blonde one spoke in English to her husband: “They’re even trying to dress like us now.” A sniff. Her husband looked up, scanned me, and nodded. They both came from countries with too many immigrants. They both curved the corners of their mouth in disdain. Her boots were leather—Italian—and her scarf, I was sure, had a tag declaring it made in Bangladesh or Nepal. She wore the world. But I had the distinct feeling I didn’t belong in hers.

The dark one spoke in Urdu to her children: “Go ask the auntie if she wants a sweet.” Her hijabed teenage daughter and bare-headed little boy offered me a quiet salaam and handed me a strange lumpy orange object. I met her eyes and smiled. She nodded at the strange lost daughter that she saw, thinking me Muslim like her, thinking me alone.

The blonde one’s voice was loud, despite her attempt to whisper to her husband. “Ten years and I still hate flying when I see them.” She was looking at a man walking towards our bench. He was turbaned, like the Sikh uncle who slipped me an extra chocolate once ten years ago. He held his young son’s hand, adjusted his long white kurta shirt. 

“He’s not an Arab,” said her husband. 

“How would I know?” she whispered loudly.

She did not need to whisper.



TNJ
Sanjena Sathian is a junior in Morse College.


**Title: Inventory**
**Author: Laura Blake**
**Page number(s): 39**

A friend once told me that she found there to be something “very restful” about a freezer full of meat. Though I am more or less vegetarian, I see what she means. There is comfort in knowing that, come exams, crummy boyfriends, lectures on parasitic arthropods, or Hurricane Irene, my roommates and I still have ample, if not healthful, provisions. If meat is restful, are other foods festive? I’ve been feeling a little down lately, so I thought it might cheer me up to make a list of everything in my refrigerator.

Though we have little in the way of bread, there’s a veritable city of condiments racked on the door: ketchup, Sriracha, salsa and peach jam, apple butter, pumpkin butter, cashew butter, butter. Two packets of soy sauce, four of duck sauce and an equal number of active dry yeast litter the butter dish. There’s tomato paste and curry paste, a jar of whole grain mustard for when we feel fancy and a bottle of Hershey’s chocolate syrup for when we don’t.

The vegetable drawer, though more suburban than the condiment rack, hosts a stable population of carrots, apples, half a green pepper, broccoli, Swiss chard, thyme, half an onion, one yellow squash, hot peppers, three lemons and a zested lime.

Should we be thirsty, we’re in luck. Four liters of Canada Dry ginger ale await the Wild Turkey in the freezer (and the following day’s upset stomach). There’s lemon juice, lime juice, a gulp of Orangina, a sip of Coca Cola and a forty. For the Anglophile, there’s a juice box of Ribena, the famed black currant drink enjoyed hot or cold by generations of British schoolchildren. (Don’t be fooled by its claim to contain four times the vitamin C of oranges, however. Two New Zealand high school students who tested the nutrient levels of the beverage in 2004 found it to harbor a scant 22 mg per 100 ml of the good stuff.) 

For those who prefer a Continental flavor, there’s half a jug of Carlo Rossi Sangria for the taking. Be warned, though—that second jug is full of coffee that merely tastes and smells like Carlo Rossi Sangria.  

For those who don’t take their coffee black, there’s a half gallon of Organic Valley two-percent milk as well as an inch or two of whole milk purchased from the Howe Convenience Store one stumbling morning when I discovered that there was nothing to put in my coffee besides my vegan roommate’s soymilk. There is very old cream cheese and very old vegan cream cheese, plain yogurt and plain soy yogurt. We have Asiago cheese for pasta, two varieties of cheddar for sandwiches, and Ski Queen Gjetost cheese, originally for my housemate Rachel’s Norwegian boyfriend and now for mousetraps.  

Sometimes I look into my refrigerator and realize it is packed full of absolutely nothing to eat. Today, however, there is hummus and applesauce, leftover sweet potatoes, a bag of tortillas, a bar of chocolate with the corners nibbled off and, of course, baking soda—for freshness.

Laura Blake is a senior in Jonathan Edwards College.


**Title: ENDNOTE**
**Author: Ali Abarca**



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
40
The New Journal
