Publication date: February 2009
Volume: 41
Issue number: 4


**MASTHEAD**
- Publisher: Lauren Harrison
- Editor-in-Chief: Nicole Allan
- Managing Editors: Amy Fish, Mitch Reich
- Designer: Aimee Marquez
- Senior Editors: Nick Handler, Jordan Jacks
- Production Manager: Ben Lasman
- Photo Editor: Miranda Popkey
- Web Editor: Ali Seitz
- Associate Editors: Laura Bennett, Sarah Nutman, Kate Selker, Laura Zax
- Research Director: Laura Yao
- Copy Editor: Alexandra Schwartz
- Members and Directors: Emily Bazelon, Roger Cohn, Peter B. Cooper, Jonathan Dach, Tom Griggs, Brooks Kelley, Kathrin Lassila, Jennifer Pitts, Henry Schwab, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, Fred Strebeigh, Thomas Strong
- Advisors: Richard Bradley, Jay Carney, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, David Slifka, John Swansburg, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Michael Addison, Austin Family Fund, Steve Ballou, J. Neela Banerjee, Margaret Bauer, Emily Bazelon, Anson M. Beard, Jr., Blaire Bennett, Richard Bradley, Martha Brant, Susan Braudy, Daniel Brook, Hilary Callahan, Daphne Chu, Jonathan M. Clark, Constance Clement, Andy Court, Masi Denison, Albert J. Fox, Mrs. Howard Fox, David Freeman, Geoffrey Fried, Sherwin Goldman, David Greenberg, Stephen Hellman, Laura Heymann, Gerald Hwang, Walter Jacob, Jane Kamensky, Tina Kelley, Roger Kirwood, Jonathan Lear, Lewis E. Lehrman, Jim Lowe, E. Nobles Lowe, Daniel Murphy, Martha E. Neil, Peter Neil, Howard H. Newman, Sean O'Brien, Laura Pappano, Julie Peters, Lewis and Joan Platt, Josh Plaut, Lauren Rabin, Fairfax C. Randal, Robert Randolph, R. Anthony Reese, Rollin Riggs, Stuart Rohrer Arleen and Arthur Sager, Richard Shields, W. Hampton Sides, Lisa Silverman, Scott Simpson, Adina Proposco and David Sulsman, Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Wilson, Jessica Winter, Angela Stent Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- From The Editors: 
- TALKING SHOCK - Kanglei Ng
- LOAN RANGERS - Nick Handler
- VILLAGE VOICES - Alexandra Schwartz
- POINTS OF DEPARTURE
- PERSONAL ESSAY - Bombay, Continued - Neena Satija
- GRAPHIC ESSAY - Proactive Strike - Ali Seitz
- THE CRITICAL ANGLE - Poster Child - Nicole Allan
- ENDNOTE - At Last - Mitch Reich


**Title: From The Editors:**
**Author:  (Not specified)**
**Page number(s): 3**

As we begin a new year with a new administration, talk of crisis has given way to talk of recovery. New Haven faces unprecedented strains, its longstanding problems worsening even as new ones arise, but it is fielding unprecedented solutions. Building upon the city's tradition of community action, residents are looking beyond government to tackle everything from foreclosure to Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder. They are turning to each other and reminding us that recovery is more than just fixing what is broken. It is renewing what we have to bolster what we create and remembering where we came from to determine where we were going.

This, our annual theme issue, chronicles a city moving forward a city recovering.


**Title: TALKING SHOCK**
**Author: Kanglei Ng**
**Page number(s): 10**

(Text of article not provided)


**Title: LOAN RANGERS**
**Author: Nick Handler**
**Page number(s): 18**



**Title: VILLAGE VOICES**
**Author: Alexandra Schwartz**
**Page number(s): 22**



**Title: POINTS OF DEPARTURE**
**Page number(s): 4**



**Title: PERSONAL ESSAY**
**Author: Neena Satija**
**Page number(s): 8**



**Title: GRAPHIC ESSAY**
**Author: Ali Seitz**
**Page number(s): 16**



**Title: THE CRITICAL ANGLE**
**Author: Nicole Allan**
**Page number(s): 26**



**Title: ENDNOTE**
**Author: Mitch Reich**
**Page number(s): 30**



**Title: TREASURE UNDERGROUND**
**Author: Haley Cohen**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
INT 
• 
\ 
I 
-
TREASURE UNDERGROUND 
. 
If time travel existed, Jesse Thompson 
and Tony Cwikla would have racked up 
millions of frequent flier years. They're 
history buffs 
guys who'd prefer to throw 
back ale with Benjamin Franklin than 
with high school buddies, who'd rather 
watch gladiator matches with Caesar than 
with Russell Crowe. But since scientists 
have yet to find a traversable wormhole, 
Thompson and Cwikla must recover 
history instead of living it. 

When they aren't working their normal 
jobs (Thompson as switchboard operator 
and Cwikla as factory worker), the two 
men are metal detectorists, or, to put it 
more romantically, treasure hunters. They 
scour beaches, fields, and historic sites for 
coins, jewelry, and other buried relics of 
the past. 

Thompson 
estimates 
that 
there 
are over 3,000 metal detectorists in 
Connecticut, and at least 100,000 across the 
nation. Though some detectorists hunt 
alone, Thompson claims that the most 
serious belong to treasure hunting clubs: 
He presides over the Nor' easters Club 
in Stamford, Cwikla over the Yankee 
Territory Coin Shooters Club in East 
Hartford. 

These 
organizations 
pro-
vide treasure hunters with a network of 
hunting partners and an appreciative audi-
ence for their finds. 

But treasure hunting is not just for 
would-be Indiana Joneses-Cwikla insists 
. that it's an easy hobby to pick up. "Really 
4 
all you need is a detector and something to 
dig with and you're good to go," he says. At 
the East Windsor treasure-hunting store 
he operates when he's not working his 
normal job, Cwikla sells detectors priced 
from $75 
"no more effective than a 
child's toy," he says 
to $1,500. A picture 
on the store's website shows him before 
a row of detectors, his wide grin, glasses, 
and 
bushy salt-and-pepper 
mu~stache 
suggesting a cheerful, avuncular spirit. 

Next to him stands a woman in a tiara and 
bubblegum-pink skirt suit. "Even Ms. 
Connecticut was shopping for a detector," 
the caption reads . 

Not all detectors ·are created equal, 
however. 

As 
he 
explains 
it, 
metal 
detectors are like cars: They have different 
technologies, features, and performance 
characteristics. Good metal detectors such 
as Cwikla's, a White's DFX model valued 
at about $1,200, accurately recognize 
various types of metal and commu-
nicate this information back to the 
hunter through varyingly pitched beeps. 

Lower-quality detectors aren't as discrimi-
nating and might confuse a balled-up 
piece of tin foil with platinum. To avoid 
this irksome situation, Cwikla says, "You 
have to have a good detector. Really 
the only things that matter in treasure-
hunting are your detector, luck, and 
research." 

emphasizes 
this 
last 
variable. "Without research you're not 
going to find much of anything," he says. 
"You have to figure out where the old 
residents were and where people gathered." 

Luckily for the Nor' easters and the 
Yankee Territory Coin Shooters, finding 
historically saturated places in Connecti-
cut is not especially difficult. "Treasure 
hunters in other parts of the country drool 
over Connecticut," Cwikla boasts. "Think 
about it: Connecticut is one of the oldest 
parts of the country, and lots of people 
have lost things over the years. The chanc-
es of finding something old and historical 
here are much better than, say, in the Mid-
west. " 

And at least 
for Thompson and 
Cwikla, happening upon history beats 
striking gold. "While a few detectorists are 
out there looking for the valuable stuff, 
most of us are more interested in history," 

Thompson says in a voice that is husky but 
kind. His club holds their meetings "in the 
catacombs of Saint Maurice Church," a 
testament to its members' devotion to the 
underground past. 

"For 
me," 
continues, 
"metal-
detecting is an escape from the day-to-
day. Every find has a story and trying to 
piece together that story transports you 
to another world. One time, at an apple 
orchard upstate, I found a Spanish real 
from 177 4. Can you imagine? 177 4! 
I remember thinking to myself, 'The 
last person to be holding this coin was 
probably 
someone 
who 
had 
just 
immigrated to America and was having a 
picnic with their family."' 

Cwikla and Thompson have dug 
up everything from watch fobs and 
wedding rings to baseball pendants and 
ornately carved knives. But, like Thompson, 
Cwikla's most cherished find is a.I.so a 
coin 
Roman, from 79 A.D. 

"I was absolutely awestruck when I 
found it," he remembers. "I thought it 
must have been a fake but I took it to an 
appraiser and he authenticated it. How 
it got to Connecticut I have no idea. My 
guess is that some poor kid had a coin col-
lection and dropped it when he brought ir 
in for show and tell." 

But as they say, finders keepers. 


**Title: SHELF LIFE**
**Author: Max Ehrenfreund**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

SHELF LIFE 
The Voynich manuscript 
turies-old document written 
• 1s a cen-
in a Ian-
guage no one can understand or even 
THE NEW JOURNAL 


' 
recognize. For most of its time at Yale, it 
has gathered dust in the Beinecke Rare 
Book and Manuscript Library, an im-
ponderable hidden from sight. Recent-
ly, however, it caught the eye of some 
documentary producers 
interested in 
making a film about it. Scrambling 
to update and expand the document's 
profile, the Beinecke librarians brought it 
to Sterling Memorial Library's conserva-
tion laboratory. Here, two outside special-
ists are analyzing the pigments in its ink 
and carbori dating a tiny sample of its 
vellum. "There are people who spend all 
their time thinking about this 'thing," 
explains Bobbie Pilette, the head of Yale 
University Library's Preservation Depart-
ment, one week after the testing. "There 
are entire websites devoted to it." 

For Pilette and Yale's other conser-
vation experts, the Voynich testing was 
business as usual, and manuscripts with 
stories beyond and beneath the marks 
of their ink are nothing out of the 
ordinary. The conservation laboratory, 
with windows looking into the atrium-
like Music Library, looks something like 
a high-school art classroom. There is a 
sink in one corner, a fume hood, and long 
yellow fluorescent lights in the ceiling. At 
a worktable covered with white butcher-
paper, Sarah Dove sits with a large and 
apparently blank sheet of something that 
she is gently scraping with a small metal 
tool. Dove is a map specialist, and she is 
removing a damaging adhesive that was 
probably applied sometime in the 1970s. 

"You spend a lot of time looking at the 
reverse sides of things," she explains. 

With the encouragement of her tool, the 
adhesive peels away from the back of the 
map the same way dry Elmer's glue peels 
off of a kindergartener's palm. The other 
side of the sheet is a map of Nova Scotia 
that was once part of George Washington's 
personal map collection. 

To a professional conservator like 
Dove, however, the map is a complicated 
interaction of paper, ink, and time. She 
. . 
sits quite straight, her forearm resting 
on the table, and works with deliberate, 
dispassionate precision. Her focus is not 
on Nova Scotia or George Washington, 
but on removing years of decay, wear, and 
negligence in order to restore the map to 
its original condition. 

In this case, some of the map's 
deterioration was actually caused by now-
February 2009 
outdated preservation techniques. Today, 
most of the processes used to repair books 
can be reversed in case future conservators 
·want to restore the book to its pre-repair 
condition. "Whatever we do could be 
undone without further damaging the 
material," says Pilette. "You don't know 
what future researchers might be looking 
c 
" 
ror. 

For example, if a book's spine is 
damaged beyond repair, Yale's conserva-
tors can attach a new binding to the pages 
of the book with a reversible wheat starch 
adhesive. This means that they could 
easily remove the binding if it became 
damaged again or if a researcher were 
to think it necessary. "You can literally 
brush water on this and it will peel right 
off," says Ian Bogus, holding a half-recon-
structed book. As head of General Collec-
tions Conservation, he is responsible for 
protecting and restoring most of Yale's 
collections. Some have been damaged 
throughstudentabuse, butmosthavesirnply 
deteriorated over time. Besides construct-
ing replacement bindings, Bogus' and his 
assistants' tasks include designing custom 
boxes to house more sensitive books. Each 
box must prevent its contents from warp-
ing or damaging under its own weight, so 
boxes are built to fit books' lengths, widths, 
and heights almost as exactly as the green 
husk of a chestnut encases the fruit itsel£ 

Some books, however, are beyond 
repair. These tomes, having reached the 
end of their lifespans, go down the hall to 
be reincarnated as text divorced from its 
original material self While microfilm-
ing used to be the most common mode 
of reformatting, these days, a book's 
pages are scanned and reprinted on more 
durable paper, or added to a growing digi-
tal database of book images. At his desk, 
surrounded by books with dusty and 
yellowing pages, reformatting special-
ist Gareth Gibson is busy digitizing is-
sues of the Yale Daily News printed dur-
ing the World War IT era. He is ensuring 
that each article electronically links to its 
full continuation, and checking for com-
pleteness 
not even an advertisement will 
be missing from the digital record. He 
once stumbled across a photograph a Yale 
student snapped of the Hindenburg zeppe-
lin as it flew over the University on its way 
to its fateful crash. In general, however, if 
he starts to read whatever he is working 
on, Gibson says, "you just get swamped." 

.. 
Gibson and his colleagues in the 
Preservation Department are technicians 
and scientists, not researchers or histo-
rians. "A book is a mechanical object. 
Whatever you do affects how it will 
operate in the future," Pilette says. There is 
little content that could excite these 
conservators as much a certain antique 
ink · called iron gall. Used widely _·in 
Europe starting in the medieval period, iron 
gall was usually a homemade ink, mixed 
according to family recipes that were 
already centuries old. An individual would 
prepare his or her own ink from wasps' 
nests in oak trees, often distilling the ink 
with wine or beer. As a result, iron gall ink 
is unpredictable, highly acidic, and diffi-
cult for conservators to treat. 

Christine McCarthy, the Yale conser-
vation lab's chief conservator, displays a 
"common-place book" written with iron 
gall and containing disorganized notes and 
records that crowd to the edges of each 
page. The tide on record for this book is 
"Memoranda, historical notes, curiosities, 
and opinions on various subjects." Sadly, 
the author's reddish-brown scrawl has 
begun to bleed through the pages, as the 
acid in his homemade ink dissolves the 
paper on which he wrote. "There is no 
right answer for treating something like 
this," McCarthy says. 

Yet for all their technical expertise, 
good conservators need something more 
than 
chemistry and 
patience. 
Their 
work is "very artistic at times," says E. C. 
Schroeder, who oversees all acquisitions, 
cataloguing, and preservation of ma-
terials at Beinecke Library. "It requires 
hand-eye coordination, good motor skills, 
and a sense of design and · style 
a sense 
of how to preserve the original." The 
conservator must be sensitive to the 
thoughts and intentions of authors long 
dead, who survive only as names on the 
tide-pages of the books they bound, but 
that sensitivity must also be matched 
by 
consideration of researchers 
scholars in centuries to come, who will 
be the ultimate beneficiaries of the 
conservator's work. 


**Title: DEAD RIGHT**
**Author: Chris Merriman**
**Page number(s): 6**

DEAD RIGHT 
On November 
8 
in 
the 
Morse 
basement, 
mere 
blocks 
from 
where 
hundreds 
of Yale 
Democrats 
were 
celebrating Barack Obama's presidential 
win after weeks of intensive canvassing and 
phone-banking, a small gathering of Yale 
College Republicans ruefully watched 
the blue votes pour in. Only one YCR 
member had canvassed during the months 
leading up to the election.· 

· · 
The YCR Yale's 
chapter of the 
Connecticut 
College 
Republicans-
struggled to garner participation during 
the presidential campaigns, even when 
Yale's 
generally left-leaning tendencies 
are taken into account. 12 percent ofYale 
undergrads, - or about 650 
students, 
described -
themselves -
as 
politically 
conservative in a recent Yale Daily News 
poll. This fall's freshman bazaar yielded an 
initial YCR panlist of about 250 names, 
but only about 15 members regularly 
attended the weekly meetings leading up 
to the elections. The traditional forums 
for conservative voices 
chiefly the Yale 
Political 
Union's 
three 
right-leaning 
parties, the Yale Daily News's editorial 
page, and the Yale Free Press 
still exist, 
but their participants often show little 
interest in the YCR. 

Conservatives 
at 
Yale, 
though 
a 
minority, are not a unified bloc. If the 
recent presidential elections are any 
indicator, many conservative Yalies don't 
adhere to strict Republican Party lines. 

Matthew Shaffer DC '10, a member of 
the Party of the Right and editor of the 
fale Free Press, abstained from voting in 
6 
November--a decision he now claims 
to regret-because he felt McCain was 
an "not an acceptable candidate." Many 
members 
of the 
right-leaning YPU 
parties felt similarly. Though there are few 
crossover YCR-YPU 
members, 
Chris 
Pagliarella 
BK 
'12, 
a ·self-described · 
moderate Republican and member of 
the YCR board, is one such anomaly. 

Pagliarella, 
however, 
participates -in 
the YPU through the Party _of the Left 
and asserts that though a "significant 
minority'' of the YPU's three conservative 
parties voted for Obama, he was the only 
conservative member of a liberal party to 
have voted for McCain. 

"It's very difficult to get excited about 
the Republican Party today," Shaffer 
says. He finds many aspects of the party's 
platform at odds with his conservative 
mindset and laments a lack of intellec-
tual leaders on social issues such as gay 
marriage and the choice to enter an 
unpredictable war. 

Jake McGuire PC '10, also of the 
Party of the Right, critiques McCain's 
selection of Sarah Palin as his vice-
- presidential candidate, saying he initially 
supported the Alaskan governor but grew 
to feel that "the Republican Party played 
too much to the populist base 
and I 
think people here resent that." 

Other YCR board members refrain 
from criticizing Republican Party ideol-
ogy, instead focusing their post-election 
analysis on specific policy issues. Trevor 
Wagener PC '11, for ins~ance, attributed 
much of the GOP's loss to its immigra-
tion policy, which he believes alienated an 
important constituency of Hispanic voters. 

Other board members focus on Obama's 
rhetorical choices, the media's focus on 
Obama's race, and the economic crisis as 
reasons for the Republicans' loss. 

One issue on which many Yale 
conservatives agree, however, is that the 
Republican Party 
and, by extension, 
the YCR 
is in bad shape. Current YCR 
President Tom Abell CC '10 suggests the 
Republican Party form national coalitions 
that would appeal to fiscal conservatives 
who often vote Democrat, as well -as to 
other strategic demographics. 

Other Yalies see the need for a more 
drastic ideological shift. "It's going to 
take a turn towards the intellectual side," 
says Courtney Pannell M C '11, a mem-
ber of the YCR .. "There is a big difference 
between younger conservatives and our 
parents .... We see how the party has 
to change: It has to be less monochro-
matic, less 1950s." Pannell thinks that 
Republicans 
must 
retain 
their more 
traditional base while also reaching out to 
"the progressive, younger generation." 

Pannell's 
suggestion 
reveals 
desire for a revival of campus conse-
vatism, an aspiration that is inexora-
bly linked with iconic Eli William F. 
Buckley, Jr. In 1951, when Buckley pub-
lished Man and God at Yale, a critique of 
what he saw as Yale's overarching liber-
alism, he identified an ideological void 
within the university community. Almost 
sixty years later, Yale conservatives feel 
a similar void not just on campus, but 
on the national political stage. They are 
waiting for their Barack Obama. 


**Title: COACH CLASS**
**Author:  [Author not specified]**

COACH CLASS 
The Yale Bowl wasn't always near-emp~ 
ty on Saturday afternoons. People didn't 
always tailgate past half-time; in fact, the 
very first game of recognizable American 
football between two U.S. universities-
Harvard and Yale 
took place in New 
Haven in 1875. It was a Yale man, Wal-
ter Camp, who later became known as the 
"father of American football," transform-
ing a brutal form of rugby into a whole 
new game. 

Looking at images of the Yale Bowl 
in the 1930s and '40s, Professor Charles 
Hill says, one gets a sense of the centrality 
of Yale football games as social occasions 



**Title: The Yale Football Messiah**
**Author: Sophie Quinton**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
and of the Yale Bowl as "where the most 
prominent people would want to be on a 
Saturday afternoon." In those days, Hill 
says, playing football for Yale "was a test 
of manhood in America, and a pretty good 
guarantee of success in life." 

But Yale has changed. With the excep-
tion of 2006, Yale has lost every Harvard-
Yale Game of the new millennium, and 
this is merely the latest slump in a long 
decline. Yale football has been unable to 
compete with the dazzling ascendency 
of the major Division 1 teams since the 
formation of the Ivy League in 1945 and 
its prohibition of athletic scholarships. 
Though Yale fielded a strong team during 
the 1960s, under the leadership of Coach 
Carm Cozza, the team's national stand-
ing and student support have continued 
to fall. For the past two years, Yale's losses 
to Harvard have been particularly brutal: 
10-0 this year, 37-6 the year before. "Last 
year was a disappointment, I think every-
body knows that," says Ryan Fodor SY '09, 
quarterback and graduating captain. "Go-
ing into every season, our goal should be 
to win an Ivy League Championship and 
beat Harvard." 

No one is more eager to make Fodor's 
dream a reality than ex-student athlete, 
former pro-coach, and current Yale foot-
ball messiah Tom Williams, who was ap-
pointed head coach this January. Williams 
is Yale's third head coach in the last 44 
years, and the first African-American to fill 
the position. He replaces Jack Siedlecki, 
who, after a fairly successful twelve-year 
tenure, announced his retirement follow-
ing Yale's shutout loss to Harvard in the 
2008 Game. 

With one infectious grin, Williams can 
fill a room with his enthusiasm for col-
lege football and the coaching profession. 
At a January 29 Master's Tea in Jonathan 
Edwards College, members of the Yale 
community had the chance to see him in 
the flesh. Along with a crush of reporters 
and football fans, I sat chewing cookies as 
Williams, resplendent in a beige suit and 
blue tie, eagerly outlined his vision for 
Yale football. His dapper mustache tilting 
up to the left as he smiled, he emphasized 
his commitment to his players as student 
athletes rather than pawns in an elaborate 
field strategy. 

This focus on students aligns well with 
the ethos of the Ivy League Conference. 
With high academic requirements and 
February 2009 
no athletic scholarships, every football 
program in the Ancient Eight follows the -
same rules of recruiting. Having formerly 
coached at Pacific Ten Conference schools 
Stanford and the University of Washing-
ton, Williams is used to facing teams that 
are either "haves or have nots;" wealthy 
schools like USC, for example, are able to 
attract players with hefty scholarships and 
thus edge out their smaller rivals. The less 
competitive nature of the Ivy League ap-
proach, Williams explained, encourages 
a sense of shared mission, almost of fam-
ily, among Ivy coaches. But to some team 
members, this is part of the problem. 

When a player at the tea asked whether 
Yale stood a chance of gaining more na-
tional recognition, Williams replied, "We 
can win our conference, beat our rival, and 
be as good as we can. We're not going to 
end up in the Championship. That's not 
something we need to be able to do." The 
player nodded, but without enthusiasm. 

The rules of the Ivy League Conference 
necessarily limit the scope of the Yale foot-
ball program, making it almost impossible 
for the team to advance to playoffs. Fodor 
explained that there had been some inter-
est among the players in pushing for a play-
off opportunity, perhaps even a Bowl-style 
standoff. The downside, he said, would be 
diminished support for the Harvard-Yale 
Game, a cornerstone ofYale football tradi-
tion since the days of Walter Camp. And 
Williams, who's placed beating Harvard at 
the top of his list of priorities, would be 
loath to do anything of the sort. Placing 
athletic competition in a larger perspec-
tive, he likened himself to. any other pro-
fessor, albeit one with a "classroom on the 
practice fields." 

Williams had only been on campus for 
a few weeks, but he greeted the players at 
his Master's Tea like old buddies. In the
ante-room, a square-jawed guy in sweats 
transferred a slab of cake to his left hand 
so he and Williams could exchange a bro-
shake. "This is one of those places that 
any college football coach would be inter-
ested in," Williams said. "The prestige, the 
students Yale attracts 
it's a dream come 
true." He wants to ensure that these stu-
dents have a chance to contribute more to 
Yale than their football skills, so in order 
to give his players a chance to be more in-
volved in student life, Williams plans on 
instituting early morning practices. If the 
players hit the field at 5:30 a.m., he rea-
soned, they'll have time to go to Master's 
Teas in the afternoons. 


---

**Title: Ghosts of Bombay**
**Author: Neena Satija**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

A month after gunmen stormed the 
Taj Mahal Hotel, I took a long-planned 
flight to Mumbai, India, to visit family. 
I hadn't seen the city in four years, but 
as my uncle drove us to his house in the 
suburbs, Mumbai looked the same. The 
traffic was still terrble; the skyscrapers 
swelled upward in the late-night sky; the 
smog was still thick enough to block out 
the stars. Even this late, some of the shops 
lining the perimeters of the slums were still 
open, little tiny places the size of a couple 
of refrigerators, held together by sheets of 
tarp and wooden sticks. 

Upon my return to Yale after the trip, 
a friend asked me, "How are people in 
Mumbai doing these days?" I imagined 
my uncle's response. He would have told 
my friend what he had been so eager to 
tell me, even as we drove away from the 
airport that first night: that Bombay (as 
most of us still call it) has not changed. 
The day after 26/ 11, he insisted, in a 
refrain that I would hear throughout my 
stay and that I found myself repeating to 
my friend, people went back to work. Life 
returned to normal. 

As we passed the crowded 
Leopold Cafe, she turned to 
me, wide-eyed: "This is where 
people 
were 
shot!" South 
Bombay wasn't a ghost town, 
but we were all seeing ghosts. 
A cousin of mine who lost a friend 
at the Oberoi, one of the hotels targeted 
in the 26/11 attacks, echoed my uncle's 
words. She and her husband live in Bandra 
West, a suburb in Central Bombay that is 
a popular tourist destination in itself-
but 
on our first night out, she took us to South 
Bombay, the area that was hit. We walked 
along Marine Drive, a road that follows 
the arc of the coast along the Arabian Sea. 
Nightlife was as lively as it had ever been: 
People streamed out of markets and bars 
and restaurants to perch on the sidewalk 
railing by the sea, dangling their feet over 
the water. But the shadow of the attacks 
was everywhere. "Helmet and Bulletproof 
Vest Recommended for all Mumbai-ites," 
read a sign posted outside Jazz by the Bay, 
a famous pizzeria and music club. None 
of us understood why it had been posted 
there or why someone had not yet taken it 
down. When we reached Nariman Point 
at the southern tip of Marine Drive, my 
cousin pointed out the Oberoi tower 
behind us with its boarded-up windows. 
As we passed the crowded Leopold Cafe, 
she turned to me, wide-eyed: "This is 
where people were shot!" South Bombay 
wasn't a ghost town, but we were all seeing 
ghosts. 

ON DECEMBER 21, the Taj and the 
Oberoi reopened their doors in a VIP-only 
event. As actors and politicians gathered 
for high tea, Indian newspapers trumpeted 
Bombay's speedy recovery and celebrities 
applauded the hotels as enduring symbols 
of the city's spirit. 

The Taj was 
India's 
first 
luxury 
hotel, built in 1903 for a quarter of a 
million pounds. It has always been one my 
clearest memories of Bombay and a favor-
ite spot to visit when I go back. Guards 
in snappy uniforms would open the 
entrance doors to reveal a richly furnished 
lobby with marble tables and a ceiling 
peppered with skylights. Men in dark suits 
would lounge in plush chairs, speaking in 
soft voices, probably talking business. I 
had always loved the restaurant, with cups 
of tea at 200 rupees (about $4) a pop, non-
bottled water that was safe to drink, and 
desserts with umbrellas sticking out of them. 
Although I didn't admit it to myself at the 
time, the Taj was a haven, a retreat from 
the outside world, from the smog and the 
blaring horns and the children selling fake 
paperback bestsellers and wilted flower 
bouquets on the side of the road. 

We visited the Taj a few days after it 
re-opened. As soon as we emerged from 
the auto we saw a long line, of at least 
fifty or sixty people, stretching all the way 
down the block. It took us a few minutes to 
realize that people were waiting to get past 
a security barricade and onto the Apollo 
Bunder, the pier across from the Taj. 
When we finally reached the front door 
of the building, a security guard stood 
beside the front steps, pointing a rifle at 
our heads, just in case. 

Inside, we ordered tea. I wanted to 
feel normal; we all wanted to feel normal, 
to talk with ease. But the conversations 
around us inevitably turned toward the 
attacks. A person at the table next to us 
remarked that the gunmen had stormed 
the place as guests were settling in for 
dinner. At that point, my cousin excused 
herself and went to the bathroom. My 
mother and I followed her. 

Even just meters from shore, 
the palace wing of the Taj, 
which will take several months 
to repair, looked untouched. 
My mother eagerly hurried inside the 
bathroom, nostalgic for the days when she 
was small, when her father would bring 
her to South Bombay and to this hotel and 
to this little room, which in a city teeming 
with dirt and mud was an icon of all things 
clean. Inside the bathroom, everything is 
pure white: white-tiled floor, stall doors 
with a white glossy finish, white marble 
sinks, faucets plated in white gold. When 
we had washed our hands, the attendant, 
a slight, bony-handed woman in a faded 
sari, handed us white towels to dry them. 
Unthinkingly I dropped the towel into the
wastebasket; she retrieved it before I had a 
chance to apologize. 

My cousin asked the woman if she had 
been on duty on 26/ 11. She replied that 
she had; she had hidden in her corner by 
the marble white counter for more than 
ten hours before daring to venture out-
side. I imagined her peeking outside the 
door, into a hallway lit with crystal chan-
deliers, for a moment before retreating. 
Perhaps she saw the shadow of a gunman's 
haggard face or of the barrel of a rifle pass 
over the portrait of Neil Armstrong, one of 
the Taj's many illustrious visitors. The flash 
of high heels across a wide, rich red carpet 
followed by heavy black boots. A body, 
half-hidden from view by a display case 
with shattered glass doors. She might 
have seen all this before retreating to her 
enclave, to the white walls and the white 
sinks and the white towels. 

JUST TWENTY OR THIRTY feet out from 
the Taj is the Arabian Sea. From other 
vantage points along the coast, it appears 
a dirty grey and brown from a mixture of 
mud and trash. But from the hotel, a bit 
farther out than the public beaches, the 
water sparkles like shattered glass. As we 
walked out of the Taj that day after tea, the 
tips of docked yachts and cruise ships and 
sailboats bobbed gently up and down in 
the afternoon sun. A cluster of triangular 
flags that distinguished a group of fish-
ing boats rapidly receded in the distance. 
Authorities have speculated that it was 
by hijacking such a boat as it left from 
Karachi, Pakistan, that gunmen were able 
to reach the shores of Bombay. 

We hired a small sailboat at the pier 
from an old man with blackened teeth to 
take us out to sea. Even just meters from 
shore, the palace wing of the Taj, which 
will take several months to repair, looked 
untouched. The Gateway of India, built 
to commemorate the visit of King George 
V and Queen Mary to India in 1911, 
arched impressively to its right. Designed 
to present an imperial first glimpse of 
India to travelers approaching by sea, it 
now blocked any view of security barriers 
or policemen. As the sun began to set, we 
watched tiny lights in each window of the 
Taj's palace wing begin to take form. 

When celebrities or politicians speak 
of the Taj as an enduring symbol of the 
city's spirit or dignity, I imagine that they 
envision something like what we saw that 
night, a palace lit with candles beside 
a tall and imposing archway worthy of 
welcoming a royal monarch. The Taj, like 
the Gateway, is meant to be seen from 
the water. Imperial visitors could step 
directly off the dock through its majestic 
waterfront doors. Perhaps they never 
even saw the rest of the city, what lies just 
behind the Apollo Bunder, the smog and 
crowded streets and beggars' outstretched 
hands. 

How are the people of Bombay doing 
these days? They've gone back to work. 
The restroom attendant still bends down 
to pick up the white towels that visitors 
accidentally throw in the dustbin. Chil-
dren still pound on car windows waving 
fake copies of *The White Tiger* in the 
middle of stalled street traffic. The security 
guard shoulders his rifle and heads to work 
at the Taj every morning. 

What else does it mean to endure? 

Neena Satija is a sophomore in Branford 
College. 



**Title: New Haven veterans with Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder move forward together.**
**Author: Kanglei Wang**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
New Haven veterans with Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder move forward together. 
The first day Paul was in Vietnam, his 
company lined up to take pictures with a 
de~d enemy soldier. When Paul refused, 
they punished him. "They made me bury 
the guy," he said. "They weren't about to let 
me get away with not touching him." 
The rest of the group 
five veterans 
and a chaplain 
listen quietly, sitting in a 
scattered circle in the third-floor chapel of 
the West Haven Veteran's Administration 
Hospital. Leaning back in their seats with 
their legs crossed, they are just senling into 
a weekly interfaith group meeting for Post-
Traumatic Stress Disorder. 
. 
"Our innocence 
boy, we sure lost it 
quick," says Paul, both hands resting on 
his walker. 
"It's true, you know," Jeff chimes in. 
His head bobs gently as he speaks. "We 
were in high school, young, we didn't un-
derstand the world then. We didn't know 
what other life-paths were like. And then 
you· go to war, and you're not prepared. 
10 
By Kanglei Wang 
Everything you see is so foreign to you. It's 
something that rocks the mind. We weren't 
,, 
Innocent anymore. 
Even today, Paul feels a sense of guilt. 
He says he's apologized to families in Viet-
nam, because he feels like he's the one who 
broke them apart and needs their forgive-
ness. 
The others nod in silence, but Hernan-
dez speaks out. "Forgiveness, what about 
it? If they don't exonerate us, then what?" 
Hernandez still recalls the first man he saw 
die, a Marine flipping through the nearby 
air 
Hernandez moves his index finger in 
a rolling motion to demonstrate. "They say 
the Lord'll take care of the guys you kill, 
sort 'em out, you know, pick the good 'uns 
and the bad 'uns. Some go to heaven, some 
go to hell. But what happens to me? What 
side am I on?" 
"Yc ah th ' 
· h " 
0 
"In 
e 
, 
at s ng t, says .~.'..On. 
war, 
you make yourself an object, and the other 
person an object. That's how you can kill. 
You detach yoursel£ And coming home, 
we had to detach ourselves again, because 
of the stigma associated with us. But at 
what price?" 
Father Sergei Bouteneff, the VA. chap-
lain, addresses the men calmly and indi-
rectly. He tells of something he learned 
from Native Americans in the Pacific 
Northwest, at a potlatch ceremony, in 
which a wealthy member of the commu-
nity treats everyone to a huge feast. One 
part of the ceremony entails taking a huge 
copper shield and breaking it apart, giving 
a piece to each person at the feast. Later, 
the host collects the pieces and melds 
them together in a display of ~nity. "Let's 
say this shield takes $1,000 to make," says 
the chaplain. "Well, it takes $2,000 to put 
it back together. And even when you do, 
it's not the same. That's the price we pay. 
It's like our innocence. We're trying now 
to buy it back, but the cost is high. And 
) 
. . 
sometrmes were nnssrng a ptece or two. 


We have to go after it. But we pay, we went 
to war at a price 
we pay extra, just like 
the shield." 
Part of that price is the fight against iso-
lation, as veterans try to piece their broken 
lives back together. 
P.T.S.D. 
PosT-TRAUMATIC 
STREss 
Disorder 
is a common mental illness 
amongst war veterans. It is an anxiety 
disorder brought on by a life experience 
a patient can't shake. Its four main symp-
toms, as described by the United States 
Department of Veterans Affairs, are re-
experiencing, avoidance, numbing, and 
arousal. The organization also estimates 
different percentages of veterans affected 
by P.T.S.D. for different wars: about 12 to 
20 percent for soldiers who served in Iraq, 
6 to 11 percent for those in Mghanistan, 
up to 10 percent for Gulf War veterans, 
and 30 percent for those who served in 
Vietnam. 
'1n war, you make yourself an 
object, and the other person 
an object. That's how you can 
kill " says Ron. "You detach 
yourself And coming home, 
we had to detach ourselves 
again, because of the stigma 
associated with us. But at 
Elliott Storm, a Vietnam veteran and 
author who is a regular patron of the West 
Haven V.A. Hospital, knows the isolation 
that P.T.S.D. can bring. His latest book, 
These Scars Are Sacred, features a vet haunt-
ed by memories of Vietnam; any little 
trigger 
a slow-moving car, crowds-can 
set off a flashback that Storm depicts in 
vivid, sometimes gruesome detail. "People 
from the outside say I'm raw," says Storm, 
whose voice, even on the pho~e, is fren-
zied: "But vets say I'm real. They say thank 
you, for telling the uuth. Thank you, for 
saying what we've been wanting to say." 
Storm insists he doesn't write his books for 
veterans themselves, but for their families, 
so that they can understand what the vet-
erans are going through and why so many 
are affiicted. 
February 2009 


**Title:  Untitled**
**Author:  (No author listed)**
**Page number(s): 12**

When the term P.T.S.D. was coined in 
198<), it was initially applied only to Viet-
nam veterans. Before that, Vietnam vets 
had noticed common problems 
anxiety, 
bouts of depression, difficulty holding on 
to jobs, a tendency to fidget, trouble trust:_ 
ing others, substance abuse 1 but rarely 
were these cases officially diagnosed or 
linked together, in. part because V.A. hos-
pitals often turned these vets away, but also 
because the vets themselves were reluctant 
to speak out. 
Storm still believes he went to . law 
school as a way to retreat from popular 
antipathy toward Vietnam vets. "Lawyers 
can't be crazy, can they?" he asks. "That 
was gonna be a mask I was gonna use. The 
last thing I wanted anyone to know was 
that I was a vet." 
Storm's multiple decorations within . 
the Marine Corps did not make his home-
coming any easier. For one thing, this was 
the first war from which soldiers were 
shipped home on planes instead of boats, 
truncating their transition from front to 
home front. "One day, I was in the middle 
12 
of a rice paddy, and I'm getting shot at, 
and I'm shooting back, and people are 
screaming and shooting and all kinds of 
terrible things are happening," says Storm. 
"Two days later, I'm sitting in my moth-
er's house, drinking cold milk, thinking, 
'What the heck's going on?"' 
.. 
"One day, I was in the middle 
o a rice paddy, and l_m .get-
ting shot at, and Im shooting 
back, and people are scream·- · 
ing and shooting and all 
kinds o terrible things are _ 
·happening," says Storm. "Two 
days later, and Im sitting in 
my mother's house, drinking 
cold milk, thinking 'What the 
heck's going on?"' 
But what drove Storm's transitional 
trauma home was the treatment he and 
other Vietnam veterans received once back 
in the States, where he felt that the public 
did not separate the soldier from the un-
popular war, the tool from the wielder of 
power. "Society turned their back on us," 
he says. "People were calling me a baby-
killer. That was forty years ago, but you 
think I'm ever gonna forget that?" 
But in the '80s, he says, as veterans be-
gan to be more accepted within popular 
culture, they began speaking out. "We 
started going to the V.A., and the V.A . 
started sayin', why, there's a lot of people 
here with the same thing. That's when they 
first called it P.T.S.D." 
Since the early 1990s, the- medical 
community has become increasingly re-~ 
sponsive to the psychological and spiritual 
needs of all patients, and particularly vet-
erans. With more and more people return-
ing from Iraq and Mghanistan wounded 
instead of killed, and with the survivability 
rate of the military today higher than it has 
ever been, veterans' need for psychological



**The Price of Freedom: Recovering Veterans**
**Author: Kanglei Ng**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
treatment has become impossible to ig-
nore. Hospitals like the West Haven V.A. 
have responded in kind, increasingly turn-
ing to chaplains' programs, mental health 
care, and creative therapy. But many vets 
worry that this won't be enough. 
"How much can you art? How much 
can you sing? How much can you laugh 
and write and do any of those things?" 
says Storm. "A reporter once said to me, 
'Didn't you find your book a catharsis?' I 
said, 'Absolutely not!' Writing doesn't help 
me .... There ·is no cure for what I have. 
Sure, there are drugs, but there is no cure. 
There's no magic pill." · 
• 
With more and more people 
om Iraq and A -
returnzng 
· ghanistan wounded instead 
of killed, and with the sur-
vivability rate of the military 
today higher than it has ever 
been, veterans' need for psy-
chological treatment has be-
come impossible to ignore. 
Dana Murphy, Storm's commanding 
officer within one of Connecticut's Ameri-
can Legion chapters, agrees that the book . 
is no substitute for medical treatment. 
"He's writing this book, but he needs help, 
too," he says. "He sees a shrink every Mon-
d 
" 
ay. 
Sometimes, the writing and the treat-
ment feed off of each other. When Storm's 
psychologist told him to write down a re-
curring war dream he'd been having, he 
ended up pounding out 65 single-spaced 
pages on a typewnter. 
But telling the truth can alienate as 
many people as it attracts. ·Storm's wife 
of 25 years left him when he started re-
immersing himself in his war experiences 
through writing. "It's called secondary 
P.T.S.D.," says Storm. "I rub off on my 
wife and my kids." He remembers a pic-
ture of him that his son, Christian, drew 
at age 13. "It was a monster-looking man 
holding a chain saw and on the bottom it 
said, 'What I say go,"' says Storm. "After I 
stopped crying, I told my son, 'Draw me 
a picture of you.' And you know what he 
drew? He drew me a picture of a sacrificial 
February 2009 
lamb." Regarding his books, his other son 
asked him, "Daddy? Do me a favor. Don't 
al 
use our re 
name. 
So "Elliott Storm" is actually a pseud-
onym, yet one so powerful that even his 
Closest friends and his second wife call him 
Elliott. As for the real Elliott Storm? He's 
a cat. 


IN THE LOBBY of the West Haven V.A. 
Hospital is a single quotation, stark and 
striking above the information desk, in 
silver metallic lettering: "The price of free-
dom is visible here." But maybe it's not so 
visible after all. 

Storm tells me, "It's not that you have 
to understand. I talk to psychiatrists, psy-
chologists. I ask 'em, 'What are the first 
things you tell these people who come 
in to see you, these veterans?' Is it 'Oh, 
we know this or we know that?' Because 
that's not what veterans want to hear. 
You tell them what you think, what you 
know about P.T.S.D. and everything, and 
they turn away from you. You know what 
a veteran wants to hear? Just two words: 
'Welcome home.' If I know someone was 
a Vietnam vet, iftheywerewearin' a hat or 
somethin', I always go up to them and say, 
'Welcome home, brother.'" 

At his office in the V.A., Father 
Bouteneff tells me, "I don't try to hide 
the fact that I never served." He got an F4 
from a medical exam 
meaning that he 
was physically disqualified 
and later a 
Yl, which excused him from duty while 
- he was a seminary student. Still, in his 
therapy sessions with P.T.S.D. groups, he 
doesn't hesitate to use the word ~'we." "War 
is about us versus them," he tells his vet-
eran patients. 

And his patients, many of whom he's 
been working with for over twenty years 
now, tell him, "We served for three years. 
You're serving for 25." 

"Spirituality is about relationships," 
Father Bouteneff says. He draws me a pic-
ture: a messy triangle labeled withY (You), 
0 (Other), and HP (Higher Power) on 
top. He draws arrows connecting all three 
to each other. "You don't have to under-
stand right away. But it's about trying to 
understand others, to sympathize, empa-
thize." He draws a final arrow from the Y 
back to itself in a circle. "And about under-
standing yourself" 


THE ERRERA CoMMUNITY Care Center, 
just down the hill from the West Haven 
V.A. and also part of the V.A. Connecticut 
Healthcare System, is working to change 
veterans' perceptions of themselves, and 
·each other, with more than just words. 

Walking into a brick building with a fac-
tory-like facade, I see artwork: photogra-
phy in memory of a vet. But upstairs, on 
the second floor, is where the healing really 
happens. 

Dr. Laurie Harkness, founder and di-
rector of the Errera Community Care 
Center, seeks to hire veterans for her staff 
of peer facilitators and counselors. "These 
people are mentally ill, have been home-
less, even," she says. "But you would never 
know it." When I explain that I am inter-
ested in the process of recovery for veter-
ans, Dr. Harkness lights up. 

The Errera Community Care Center 
addresses community integration in a style 
more hands-on and less structured than 
most mental health centers could imagine. 
"Most mental health places, they're try-
ing to establish more of a medical. model," 
says Moe Armstrong, a veteran who spe-
cializes in mental health work and is writ-
. 
ing a book profiling the Center's 17 peer 
specialists; he jots down notes even as I 
ask questions. "They have psychiatrists, 
nurses," he explains. "Well, you need that. 
You need clinical people, but you also need 
people workin' with people. Just need peo-
ple talkin' to each other. That's why this 
place got the best of both worlds, the clini-
cal stuff' 
the Center boasts psychiatrists, 
·including Dr. Harkness, who teach at the 
Yale School of Medicine 
"and people 
trying to get each other. And by having 
mentally ill people act as peers, that's ther-
apy for them, too. The future of mental 
health is here." 

James Murphy and Lewis Andrews are 
both peer advisors as well as Vietnam vet-
erans; they co-teach a class called HOPE: 
How One Progresses Everyday. Before tak-
ing early retirement, Murphy managed to 
work on and off for 22 years after he got 
back from the war. After he stopped work-
ing, though, he got mixed up with a crowd 
that fostered his drug addiction. He was 
homeless by 2004, when he was diagnosed 
with P.T.S.D. at the V.A .. "I'm not trying 
to justify everything with my P.T.S.D.," he 
says. But the facts are there: Since his di-
agnosis, he hasn't used drugs; and he's no 
14 
longer homeless. When he first found out, 
though, he was scared. "When they first 
told me I had P.T.S.D.; I was like, 'What's 
that?' I thought they were tryin' to label 
me, you know. I was scared. When you 
get screwed over so many times, when the 
V.A. did want to help you, you got a bit 
leery. That why a lot of us stayed out and 
became homeless. We had no confidence 
that the V.A. was tryin' to help us." 

Lew Andrews needs even more help · 
than Murphy: He was blinded by a mine 
while operating a tank in Vietnam. "This 
center is tryin' to help the guys accept the 
condition they're goin' through. Or maybe 
not accepted, no," says Andrews. "I mean, 
more like adjust. I've adjusted to being 
blind, I ain't gon' get used to it, but I can 
work to a positive end." · 

"When they first told me I 
had P. T.S.D., I was like, 
'What's that?"' says ·Murphy. 
'1 thought they were . trying 
to label me, you know. I was 
scared. When you get·screwed 
over so many times, when the 
VA did want to help you, you 
got a bit leery." 

When Andrews first came to the Cen-
ter to work, after getting a bachelor's de-
gree in psychology at Gateway College, 
the administrators asked him, "What do 
you think you could bring to this center 
to help?" 

''I'm the· type of person who needs that 
type of stuff," says Andrews. Like many 
vets, he wants to feel needed. 

A typical peer advisor teaches four 
classes a week on anything from anger 
management, to social interactions, to 
finding jobs. Peer-to-peer counseling gives 
mentally ill veterans a sense of purpose, 
even amidst difficulties. "Some morn-
ings, I just don't want to come to work," 
says Anthony Dozier, another peer advi-
sor at the center who specializes in find-
ing veterans jobs under the government's 
supportive employment policies. "I don't 
know how to explain it. It's overwhelming. 
I force myself out of bed sometimes." But 
he gets up because he has a responsibility 
to other veterans. "The benefit of me hav-
ing a mental illness is that I can relate. A 
lot of vets" 
Dozier served in Iraq 
"are 
like me." They want to isolate themselves, 
stay in bed. They don't like authority. Ev-
erything's a threat to them. They can't find 
or keep a job. "Well, then I start sharin' my 
story with them. They see that I'm at work 
every day. That inspires them." And so, 
when Dozier looks for jobs for veterans, he 
considers the conditions he himself faces. 

When a veteran tells him he is too anxious 
to have an interview that day, Dozier re-
schedules with the employer. He explains 
the situation to potential employers and 
entreats them to give the vet a chance. 

"It's a part-time job that just gets 'em 
out of the house," says Dozier. "The worst 
-
thing for mental illness is to isolate. With a 
mental illness, you hide from the world. If 
you get 'em out of the house, there's less of 
a chance for relapse." And unlike other job 
employment programs, Dozier's support 
is ongoing. "I don't want you to just get 
your thing goin' on and leave you. I stick 
with you. I support you and keep coming 
to check in on you," Dozier says. "As long 
as a vet wants me to keep comin', I keep 
co min'. And there's this sense of being part 
of a team, too 
Tony's team. That's what 
soldiers like." 

But since there are just two supportive 
employment peer advisors at the Center, 
there's not enough of Dozier to go around. 
And as Moe Armstrong points out, this isn't 
just a problem in New Haven 
there are 
not enough Doziers or Andrews or Mur-
phys throughout the country. Armstrong, 
who wants to bring this sort of peer-to-peer 
interaction and support to mental health 
institutions nationwide, is working on a 
national vet-to-vet program. 

The mental health system has been slow 
to accept this approach. "This center, this is 
it," says Armstrong, who has visited simi-
lar clinics across the country. "60 percent 
of the people who go through this center 
don't return to homelessness. That's the 
highest in the V.A. system. Nationally, 
you'd be lucky if you get half that." 

Armstrong has been working with men-
tal healthcare .on and off for 'twenty years 
and has two master's degrees in the field. 
Before that, he spent twenty years wander-
ing after his service in Vietnam, drifting 
from place to place, getting high, not real-
izing how common mental illness was for 
veterans. In 1984, when he was accepted 


to college, "the V.A. wouldn't pay for me 
to have a degree in social work," he says. 
"They wanted me to hide. The counselors 
were afraid of what would happen if I were 
to speak my feelings." So he got a bach-
elor's in business administration instead; 
he says he'll probably work until he drops 
dead. 

All of Armstrong's wandering, though, 
has taken a toll on him. "Sometimes I still 
feel like the odd guy out," he says. "Like 
I'm rough around the edges, you know." 

''Hey now," says Murphy. "Sometimes 
the odd guy out is the one that gets the ball 
rollin' ... even if sometimes the ball rollin' 
can knock the odd guy out." 

They chortle, but the statement rings 
true, and this is precisely what the Errera 
Community Care Center is: the odd guy 
out, trying to get the ball to roll. And more 
people are starting to roll along. 

KEN HARBAUGH, executive director of 
the Center for Citizen Leadership, a non-
profit dedicated to providing veterans with 
resources to be "leaders back home," is one 
of the rollers. "Even those coming home 
wounded feel like they have something left 
to give," says Harbaugh. "They don't want 
to feel like they're charity cases. So our first 
thought shouldn't be, 'What can I do to 
help them?' It's, 'What can we do to reen-
gage them productively in society?"' 

Harbaugh lives in New Haven, but 
the Center for Citizen Leadership works 
nationwide integrating veterans into the 
community as full-time volunteers for or-
ganizations from the National Park Service 
to Brothers and Sisters or local nonprofits. 
Many veterans receive subsidies from the 
CCL as a way to supplement their service 
checks while allowing them to do com-
munity work. As for the organizations for 
which the veterans volunteer, Harbaugh 
says, "At first, · they really feel like they're 
doing these guys a favor. But it doesn't 
take very long at all for them to realize that 
these people have so much left to offer." 

"Our first thought> >J says Har-
baugh> "shouldnt be> cWhat 
can I do to help them?> Its, 
'What can we do to reengage 
them productively in society?»' 


A bill introduced in the Senate in the ·· 
fall of 2008 as an amendment to the Na-
tional and Community Service Act of 
1990 proposes a strategy similar to Har-
baugh's. Ted Kennedy and Orrin Hatch's 
Serve America Act would, among other 
things, provide a government-funded vet-
eran's fellowship that would encourage 
veterans to engage m commumty servtce. 
The Obama administration has already 
signaled support for it. 

"The veterans' story is one of continu-
ing service," says Harbaugh, himself a vet 
who attended Duke and then Yale Law 
School after returning from his tours. 
"These guys have been told by the military 
that they've done their part, they can sit 
back now and be taken care of, but that's 
not a way to live for anybody, much less 
the kinds of people who were willing to 
risk their lives to serve." Harbaugh and, 
now, the American government, recog-
nizes the role of service in healing. 

AT THE END of the group meeting at 
the West Haven V.A., one man says he 
wants to join one of the service projects 
going back to Vietnam, to help rebuild 
the place he once destroyed. That will be 
his continuing service, and part of his re-
covery. Another man says he would never 
be able to do that, to go back there, but 
that he fully supports the other vet. "And 
in doing that, in you telling him, 'I sup-
port you,"' says Father Bouteneff to the 
second man, "a little part of you is going 
back with him." 

~ 

For these veterans, like the pieces of the 
potlatch shield, recovery cannot exist in 
isolation. 

TN 

Kanglei ~ng is a sophomore in Branford 
College. 


**Title: New Haven's Housing Crisis**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
While the dramatic failures of financial 
powerhouses like Lehman Brothers and 
AIG in September, 2008 are often consid-
ered the beginning of the current global 
financial crisis, for New Haven residents, 
the downturn began three years earlier 
with a sharp dip in the housing market. 
Between 2007 and 20.08 alone, Elm City 
hqme sales dropped by 26.2 percent, well 
above the 16 percent national average. As 
the value of New Haveners' homes fell and 
the interest rates on their mortgages rose, 
the result was a record number of foreclo-
sures: 165 in 2007 and 360 in 2008, fol-
lowing an already shocking 130 percent 
hike in foreclosure rates between 2005 and 
2007. 

In response, Mayor John DeStefano 
gathered housing advocates from city non-
profits, community groups, and Yale Law 
School clinics to develop a coordinated re-
sponse to the city's housing crisis. He un-
veiled this team, called the Real Options 
Overcoming Foreclosure (ROOF) Project, 
at a press conference in City Hall at the 
beginning of May. "The foreclosure cri-
sis is affecting communities nationwide," 
DeStefano said at the gathering. "But in 
New Haven, we're working together to 
minimize the impact,· help families before 
they reach the point of foreclosure and ed.,. 
ucate our residents about creating wealth, 
understanding what they can afford~ and 
making trusted counseling services avail-
able to families in trouble." The ultimate 
goal, DeStefano made clear, was to "pro-
tect the vitality of our neighborhoods." 

The city is fighting an uphill battle. 
While Connecticut has suffered com-
paratively less than states like Nevada and 
Arizona, urban areas such as New Haven 
and Bridgeport, which have relatively 
weak job markets and high proportions 
of low-income housing, have been hit far 
harder than the rest of the state. In January 
alone, according to the online foreclosure 
database Realtytrac.com, there were 560 
newly foreclosed homes in New Haven. 
Hartford County came in a distant second 
with 387. By the end of2008, over 1,000 
lis pendens @ings 
the first legal step in 
foreclosure proceedings 
had been issued 
in New Haven, at nearly triple the rate of 
the previous year. 

"The effect has been huge," says James 
Paley, executive director of Neighborhood 
Housing Services of New Haven, a local 
non-profit that acquires and rehabilitates 
distressed properties in the city and resells 
them at affordable rates. "Each month is 
a record number of foreclosures over the 
month before." 

In january alone, there were 
560 newly foreclosed homes in 
New Haven. Hartford Coun-
ty came in a distant second 
with 387. 

For Paley, the culprit in this crisis is 
clear: adjustable-rate sub-prime mortgage 
loans, or mortgages in which borrowers 
with poor credit ratings initially pay a low, 
fixed-rate interest on their loan, which 
then rises substantially after a set period 
of time. "One of the things people would 
be told," Paley recalls, "is, 'Yes, this is an 
adjustable rat~ mortgage and it will go 
up after two years, but the value of your 
property will keep going up and you'll be 
able to refinance to a fixed rate mortgage.' 
Well, when the housing market is strong 
that's fine, but when it drops people can't 
refinance and they're stuck in the adjust-




**Title: The Foreclosure Crisis in New Haven**
**Author: Nick Handler**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
able rate mortgage owing more than their 
house is worth." 

New Haven, as an urban center with a 
high incidence of poverty and low-income 
housing, became a locus for sub-prime 
mortgage agreements. "Connecticut is a 
fairly wealthy state," explains Eva Heint-
zelman of the Greater New Haven Com-
munity Loan Fund, a New Haven based 
non-profit that provides low-interest loans 
to low-income prospective homeowners, 
"but there is a lot of inequality. Bridgeport, New Haven, Waterbury 
we do 
have some weak markets where we have 
relatively high rates of sub-prime arroga-
tion," she says, referring to banks' seizure 
of houses that have defaulted on their sub-
pnme mortgages. 

By the end of 2007, nearly 20 per-
cent of all mortgages in New Haven 
or 
roughly 4,000 loans 
were sub-prime, 
and, unsurprisingly, they were focused in 
the city's lowest-income areas. In fact, over 
60 percent of all foreclosures in New Ha-
ven take place in only six neighborhoods: 
The Hill, Newhallville, Fair Haven, Quin-
nipiac Meadows, Beaver Hills, and the An-
nex. 

SINCE MID-2008, the ROOF Project 
has led city efforts to stem the foreclosure 
tide. While, in theory, the organization ·· 
is sponsored by City Hall and the Office 
of the Mayor, in practice, it is comprised 
mainly ·of representatives of local non-
profits. Heintzelman and Paley both serve 
on the steering . committee, along with 
DeStefano (ex-officio), tWo aldermen, 
and representatives from Yale Law School, 
United Way, and New Haven's religious 
community. The directors are responsible 
for determining how to distribute funding 
allocated for housing recovery 
including 
a recent $3.2 million grant from the fed-
eral government's Department of Housing 
and Urban Development (HUD), award-
ed in early February. Most of the funds 
end up in the hands of the neighborhood-
level non-profits under the ROOF Proj-
ect's umbrella, as well in those of a few 
for-profit developers. "Money spent on 
professional non-profits that are in the 
trenches day in and day out is money well-
spent," Paley says. 

Sameera Fazili, a clinical professor and 
Ludwig Community Development Fel-
low at Yale Law School and a member of 
the ROOF Project's steering committee, 
is pleased with the mayor's efforts. "The 
city has been a partner with us all the 
way," she says, but she still believes that 
community organizations and private de-
velopers are often best-positioned to help 
recover hard-hit neighborhoods. "I think 
that the best way to respond to the situa-
tion is with a combination of non-profits 
and the private sector," she says. "Private 
sector developers are wonderful as long as 
they are monitored to make sure that they 
are doing quality work on the houses they 
are . restoring. As for neighborhood-level 
recovery, the local non-profits know- the 
neighborhoods best, and they're the ones 
who are best positioned to help rehabili-
tate them." 

Much like the organizations that com-
prise it, the ROOF Project uses many dif-
ferent tactics to confront foreclosure. "We 
suggest a three-pronged approach," says 
Fazili 
first, community outreach, "to let 
people know that there is help out there for 
them if they get involved early enough," 
followed by much-needed assistance and 
counseling in dealing with mortgage debt, 
including consulting with HOD-certified 
counselors and state-sponsored mediation 
between bank lenders and at-risk borrow-
ers. And then, to prevent foreclosures from 
spreading, the Project focuses on neigh-
borhood stabilization. 

This final tactic is meant to forestall the 
destructive effect a small number of fore-
closures can have on entire residential ar-
eas. Heintzelman describes this dynamic as 
a "tipping point," when one or two vacant 
houses lead to a rapid decline in a neigh-
borhood's property values and an accom-
panying rise in its rates of foreclosure. 

"Neighbors who are paying their mort-
gages are seeing the value of their property 
decline," Fazili explains. "We are going to 
see a lot more boarded-.up houses. You are 
going to see an increase in crime and a real 
decline in the city's tax base if we don't ad-
dress this on a neighborhood level." 

If this task sounds daunting, it is. In the 
short term, with foreclosure rates rising 
and whole neighborhoods at risk of reach-
ing the "tipping point," the ROOF Project 
will be confronted with record numbers 
of homeowners in need of guidance. One 
step of the process that is particularly cru-
cial for residents to understand went into 
effect in July of 2008. Connecticut Pub-
lic Act No. 08-176, "An Act Concerning 
Responsible Lending and Economic Se-
curity," grants homeowners who have re-
ceived a foreclosure notification the right 
to request a meeting with their lenders 
to try to negotiate a settlement. It also 
instructs lenders not to begin foreclosure 
proceedings until they have made a "good 
faith effort" to determine the borrower's 
ability to pay. If a homeowner requests a 
meeting, loan originators are now legally 
required to sit down with him or her and 
a state-appointed judicial mediator who 
will attempt to strike a compromise and 
restructure the loan so that the borrower 
can pay it off over time, while remaining 
in his or her home. 

The law was heralded as a major boon 
to at-risk homeowners, but in practice, 
it has proved useless unless homeowners 
are atypically well-informed. Many are 
unaware of their right to mediation, and 
they lose that right if they fail to request 
a meeting within 15 days of receiving a 
foreclosure notice. Moreover, while the 
bill requires that banks and lenders meet 
with homeowners and agree on new terms 
if a borrower can prove his or her ability to 
pay, states are not allowed to enforce such 
terms. Bankruptcy judges, for example, do 
not have the power to unilaterally rewrite 
the conditions of loans if they feel a lender 
is being unreasonable. 

So while most advocates feel that the 
on-the-ground rehabilitation work is best 
done by community-based organizations, 
they also want to s~e the state and federal · 
government work more actively to enforce 
banks' cooperation. "The best role the state 
and federal government can play, in my 
opinion," says Fazili, "is to put pressure on 
banks and financial institutions to modify 
loans to keep homeowners in their homes, 
then helping non-profits to buy foreclosed 
properties, rehabilitate them, and sell 
them at a reasonable price." 

Nobody is more emphatic on this point 
than Robert Solomon. A member of the 
ROOF Project, supervisor of the Yale Law 
School's Clinical Studies Program, and for-
mer director of the New Haven Housing 
Authority, Solomon is a man who minces 
no words. "I teach a clinic on housing and 
community development and I . teach a 
clinic on domestic violence," he says, "and 
I have found that it is easier to deal with" 
a domestic abuser than it is to deal with a 
bank or an attorney for a bank." 

For the veteran Solomon, as for Paley, 
the villains in the housing collapse are in-
disputably banks. After years of predatory 
lending, mortgage discrimination, and 
irresponsible securitization of mortgage 
loans, he says, banks bear much of the 
blame for creating the current economic 
crisis but have yet t() be held responsible 
for their actions. "Banks have been wrong-
doers throughout this entire process," he 
says. "They have been wrongdoers and 
they are trying to reap the benefit of their 
wrongdoing." 

As the director of a housing clinic at 
the Law School, Solomon has had a first-
hand look at many of the mediations re-
sulting from Public Act 08-176. "It's not 
adequate 
totally inadequate," he insists. 
"Banks do not do real mediation." In-
stead, he says, many loan originators send 
unprepared attorneys to meetings and do 
not authorize them to make alterations to 
loans. 

Some, like Heintzelman, claim that, 
though more governmental regulation 
would be helpful, mediations can garner 
results. She explains that the Greater New 
Haven Community Loan Fund has been 
"quite successful" in modifying a number 
of its clients' loans. 

But Solomon believes that without ex-
plicit powers of enforcement, the right to 
mediation is meaningless. "The judges in 
foreclosure courts need specific litigation 
allowing them to rewrite mortgages and 
to force banks to comply with mediation," 
he argues. "Otherwise the legislation does 
nothing." 

State Senator Bob Duff, Democrat of 
Norwalk and Darien and co-chair of the 
Senate Banking Committee, which wrote 
Public Act 08-176, acknowledges that 
there may be room for improvement in the 
legislation but insists that critics like Solo-
mon undersell it. "Can it be better?" Duff 
says. "Possibly. But we're only six months 
old and we have already helped thousands 
of people stay in their homes through the 
mediation process. Connecticut is cur-
rently the only state in the nation that has 
a banking mediation program, and I think 
it's been very successfuL" As for Solomon's 
enforcement concerns, Duff is skeptical 
that giving foreclosure judges the power to 
rewrite loan terms if they feel loan origina-
tors are acting unreasonably is possible, or, 
for that matter, desirable. "Frankly, I am 
not so sure judges want that power," he 
says. "Granting judges that kind of power 
is something we would need to study very 
closely. For right now, though, I think 
we're doing very well." 

And the legislation, which has appoint-
ed twelve judicial mediators across the 
state 
two of whom are based in New Ha-
ven 
has seen some success. As of Decem-
ber 31, mediators had successfully kept 
57 percent of all mediation applicants, or 
681 homeowners, in their homes, usually 
through mediated loan modifications. But 
the numbers only tell half the story: While 
mediation does have a relatively high suc-
cess rate, not everyone obtains it. In New 
Haven, according to statistics provided by 
the Senate Judiciary Committee, 358 peo-
ple applied for mediation between July 1, 
2008, when the bill entered into law, and 
December 3 L but another 969 who were 
eligible did not apply. "One of the biggest 
problems we face," Heintzelman says, "is 
that people get something from the court 
and they freak out and do nothing, and 
then soon it's too late." 

WHILE MUCH OF THE ROOF Project's 
task in the coming years will be to close this 
gap, s(;me of its constituent organizations 
have more wide-ranging and long-term 
plans. Many members place paramount 
importance on education and outreach, 
especially in low-income neighborhoods. 

"Homeowners need continuing guidance 
on how to manage their mortgages and fi-
nances," says Fazili. In the long term, this 
would entail not only homeowner educa-
tion programs, but also government-spon-
sored shared-equity programs, in which a 
state or local government would provide 
financial assistance to first-time, low-in-
come home buyers in exchange for a share 
iri the value of their property. Such· guid-
ance might also include Individual Devel-
opment Accounts (IDA), organizations in 
which donations from a number of sources 
are used to match the savings of low-in-
come home buyers in order to encourage 
homeownership without relying on risky 
loans, and other public and private incen-
tive programs to provide homebuyers with 
alternatives to high-interest mortgages. 

Such programs, according to Fazili, have 
the double benefit of stabilizing housing 
markets and educating first-time home 
buyers. 

c1 think that the major rami-
fication of this crisis will be 
· that we rethink the way we 
push home ownership on low-
income 
says 
Fazili. 

Paley agrees that, in order to recover 
from the housing crisis, advocates must 
encourage long-term financial responsi-
bility as well as guide people through the 
foreclosure process. "Our whole work for 
the past thirty years," he says of Neighbor-
hood Housing Services, which has ,been 
providing counseling and homeownership 
education since its founding in 1979, "has · 
been to encourage responsible borrowing." 

NHS currently offers a number of classes 
in homeownership and financial manage-
ment, including courses on credit counsel-
ing, foreclosure intervention, and budget 
and financial management. "The whole 
object of our Home Ownership Center is 
to encourage homeownership eventually," 
Paley explains. "But everyone that goes 
through our program goes through an ex-
treme horileownership education." 

Another primary long-term goal of the 
ROOF Project, and one that NHS and the 
Greater New Haven Community Loan 
Fund have been working on for years, is 
to preserve neighborhoods' market val-
ues and improve their community fabrics 
in the face of expanding blight. Since its 
founding thirty years ago, NHS has de-
vel oped 38 5 units of affordable housing, 
helped 475 first-time homebuyers pur-
chase homes, and enrolled 811 applicants 
in IDA programs. Since 1988, the Greater 
New Haven Community Loan Fund has . 
originatced over $44 million in low-interest 
loans for affordable housing. Much of the 
funding for such organizations, howeyer, 
comes from state and federal grants, banks, 
and charitable contributions, all of which 
have been pummeled by the recession. 

And while NHS, for example, is able to 
restore about twenty units of housing per 
year, and the Greater New Haven Com-
munity Loan Fund is able to originate 
about $2 million worth of loans a year, 
the City recently estimated that New Ha-
ven contains 800 abandoned houses and 
a rising number of evicted homeowners. 

Ultimately, the crisis may force the city to 
reconsider its homeownership-prioritizing 
mentality. "I think that the major ramifi-
cation of this crisis will be that we rethink 
the way we push home ownership on low-
income communities," says Fazili. 

Asked about his hopes for New Ha-
ven's recovery, Jim Paley remains guarded 
but not entirely pessimistic. "It really de-
pends on whether the economy can get 
back on its feet," he says. "If unemploy-
ment remains where it is, people won't 
have money and won't be able to remain 
in their houses. It's so critical we have an 
economic stimulus that works in order to 
get people working again, and in order to 
get the consumer confidence index up so 
people start buying again." 

Ultimately, for Paley and the other rep-
resentatives of New Haven's governmen-
tal and community-based--organizations 
scrambling to deal with the housing mar-
ket's collapse, working "in the trenches" 
can only accomplish so much. Without 
.effective governmental regulation and en-
forcement, the foreclosure epidemic could 
continue indefinitely. "Can we emerge 
from this without a total crisis?" Paley 
muses about New Haven's future. "Yes, 
but it's going to take some real leadership." 




**Title: The Village of Power**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
It's a Tuesday morning in February 
at the Village of Power, and Josephine is 
asking the women seated around her in a 
makeshift circle of chairs what they've done 
this week to turn a negative into a positive. 
The women, eleven in all, slump back into 
their sweatshirts and jackets. Although it's 
warm indoors, some are still wearing the 
. 
secondhand winter coats they got from the 
Columbus House shelter, where many will 
spend the night. No one speaks. Maybe 
it's a little too early in the day, or maybe 
the question is too difficult for the women 
to answer just yet. They have come to the 
VOP, an all-female treatment program run 
in the basement of the Hill Health Center 
on Dixwell Avenue, to seek legal, medical, 
and emotional support as they struggle to 
overcome the twin hurdles of homeless-
ness and substance abuse. 

Each woman who finds her way to the 
VOP is at a different step on the road tore-
covery, but all have certain things in com-
mon. All live below the poverty line; many 
have a history of incarceration, domestic 
abuse, and trauma; most, though not all, 
are racial minorities; 98 percent are un-
employed. Most of the women suffer from 
some form of illness, mental or physical, 
22 
Sue Feldman, founder and director of the Village of Power. 
that is often related to their addictions and 
exacerbated by their poverty: bipolar dis- . 
order, schizophrenia, HIV, diabetes. Pain 
of all degrees and all varieties tends to be 
a recurring problem among the clientele. 

Josephine isn't prepared .to accept si-
lence. As a veteran VOP caseworker, she 
leads a slew of trauma discussion groups, 
and she's anything but shy about getting 
the ball rolling. "Mary, would you care to 
tell· us one example of what you changed 
from a negative to a positive this week?" 
she asks a woman in jeans and a black 
parka. 

Mary responds slowly. "Keeping that 
right attitude, no matter what happens in 
my life," she says. She doesn't look older 
than forty, but she's missing most of her 
teeth. "I can't be a good example to my 
grandchildren and other children in the 
family if I'm going to be an addict. And 
I could be sent to jail by my parole officer 
for using and testing positive time after 
time." She pauses, then grows philosophi-
cal. "I could thank my lucky stars that I 
still have my freedom, and nothing gets 
better by using." 

"Give her a hand, people," Josephine 
calls out, eliciting <!- round of applause. A · 
woman sitting close to the room's back wall 
clears her throat. It's hard to hear her until 
Josephine tells her to speak up. Three of 
her family members have died within days 
of each other, she says, and she's struggling 
with the temptation to turn to alcohol to 
help her cope with her grief. The woman 
sitting next to her chimes in. She can un-
derstand what it's like, she says, rubbing 
her eyes. She still misses her mother, al-
though she died over twenty years before. 
The anniversary of her death is coming 
up soon. The women begin to talk at the 
same time, speaking at once to and over 
each other. 

'1 can't be a good example to 
my grandchildren and other 
children in the family if Im 
going to be an addict, " says 
• 
Mary. ':And I could be sent to 
jail by my parole o cer for us-
ing and testing positive time 
after time." 


--- Page 23 ---

"You need to write a letter to your 
mother," Josephine tells the second wom-
an, cutting through the confusion, and 
when she replies that she already has, Jo-
sephine is ready with an answer: "Write 
another one, baby, until you feel that 
peace, 'cause you're not at peace with that. 
As time goes on and we get older, we have 
to come to peace with things in our past," 
she explains. "You are judged by your past, 
and you're going to have to live with your 
, 
past some more. 

JOSEPHINE OCCASIONALLY speaks in ab-
stractions, but her words are grounded in 
experience. Like many of the VOP's case-
workers, she herself is a recovered addict, 
and is intimately acquainted with the irre-
versible impact that addiction can have on 
a career and personal life. As she addresses 
the group, Josephine begins to talk about 
her own struggle to regain control over her 
life, to find a new job after her drug-relat-
ed criminal record made her ineligible for 
most career tracks. She knows what it's like 
to be judged by the past, and she tells it 
like it is: Recovery is hard, recovery is long, 
recovery is often lonely. Her voice is sharp 
and loud, but its sheer persistent force has 
a relaxing effect over the room. "I know 
what it is to sit up and cry and be upset 
about that urge, you know," she says. "It's 
real, something that I fight every day, what · 
is it, seven or eight years?" She pauses, and 
looks at the circle of women. ''And I feel 
really good about that." 

As Josephine goes on, it becomes harder 
and harder to distinguish her from a VO P 
client. She speaks with the authority of a 
caseworker and the confidence of someone 
who is sure of her own strength and ability 
to stay sober. Still, the stories she tells are 
deeply personal, and she makes no attempt 
to censor herself, or to pause her own nar-
rative so that others can share theirs. She 
is nothing like the stereotypical group 
leader of addiction recovery programs like 
Alcoholics Anonymous, that warm and 
fuzzy breed of mentor who speaks only 
positive platitudes. This, of course, is the 
point of the VOP's particular recovery 
model. The program installs caseworkers 
who understand their clients' experiences 
because they have lived them. Josephine, 
who wears her enthusiasm for her job at 
the VOP like a badge of honor, can hold 
herself up as living proof that it is possible 
not simply to conquer an addiction, but 
February 2009 
to go on to lead a fulfilling life. And she's 
anything but modest about the achieve-
. ment. "Do you mind if I give you a hug?" 
she asks one of the clients in the group. 

No one else has spoken for minutes; the 
proposed hug seems at once a caseworker's 
offer of comfort to the women she's trying 
to help and a client's vulnerable appeal for 
reassurance. "I tell ya, a hug a day keeps 
the doctor away, it's better than the apple. 
And a good smile will brighten a person's 
day, too." People nod. "You know, I feel as 
though when I walk in here I really add 
some burst of life to y' all. Get up! Get 
moving!" The women chuckle, but few 
move. "No?" Josephine asks. 

DESPITE THE FRAUGHT nature of many 
of its discussion groups, the VOP works 
hard to cultivate a casual, easy atmosphere. 
Women will often stop by just to say hello 
and chat for a minute, and the caseworkers 
leading discussions and group therapy ses-
sions call out to them to encourage them 
to sit and stay for a while, or to join the 
group and share their own stories. The cin-
derblock walls are painted a bright purple, 
the rooms decorated with clients' photo-
graphs, magazine-cutout collages, paint-
ings, and poems. A large wooden board 
is cut and painted to look like a woman 
dressed in Mrican-patterned fabrics. The 
sign she carries reads: "We are the women 
_ of the Village of Power 
strong, caring, 
spiritual, loving, funny, free. Village of 
Power is the strength for women in recov-
ery learning to overcome in daily battles."~ 

As the VOP's founder and director 
Sue Feldman will tell you, it's not a fancy 
place. Even in a normal economic climate, 
there would hardly be money to spend on 
things like furniture or decor. The tables 
and chairs that fill the main room where 
most of the group meetings take place are 
strictly utilitarian. But to regular clients, 
none of that seems to matter. The VOP 
has a warmth and openness to it that ob-
scures the windowless modesty of its phys-
ical space. It can seem worlds, rather than 
mere floors, away from the gray sterility of 
the clinic upstairs. 

If there is a model for the VOP, it is the 
one-room schoolhouse, in which students 
of all ages and skill levels interact and learn 
with one another, the more advanced ones 
nudging the novices along until they be-
come teachers in their own right. The Vil-
lage of Power purposefully softens the lines 
.. 
between authority figures and clients, the 
recovered and the recovering. Casework-
ers have been patients and talk honestly 
about the continued challenges of staying 
sober. As Josephine's own presence testi-
fies, it's more than possible for patients to 
transform, one day, into caseworkers. Even 
Sue's office, technically the most offiCial 
and private room at the VOP, is an open, 
almost communal space. Clients and case-
workers alike drop by to chat or ask for 
advice, and the door stays open almost all 
the time. "Sue does not take a day off," Jo-
sephine says with admiration. "Every time 
she takes her vacation, she incorporates it 
into business." 

Talking and listening are important, 
but doing and making things are equally 
stressed as practical modes of therapy. 
Across the hallway from the VOP's main 
room is Growing for Sewing, a program 
devoted entirely to clients' sewing and 
crafts projects. Bolts of fabric cover the 
tables and countertops of the large sewing 
room, and finished items hang on the walls 
as showpieces. Colorful wraps and shawls 
drape next to patterned shirts and pants; a 
handmade teddy bear or two surveys the 
scene. Johnnie-Anne and Comelita, two 
long-time VOP clients, sit at sewing ma-
chines, working on new projects and lis-
tening to religious songs drifting from the 
television: I know I don't deserve him, but 
I love him anyway. Praise him, praise him, 
praise him. 

~ time goes on and we get 
older; we have to come to peace 
with things in our past~ " says 
josephine. ccYou are judged by 
your past~ and youre going to 
have to live with your past 
some more. 

Comelita has been coming to the Vil-
lage of Power since 2006. Although she 
had known how to sew since she was a 
child, she hadn't worked a machine in 
thirteen years. Sewing, she found, helps 
to keep her mind occupied and focused 
on sobriety. She comes to the VOP every 
day, she says, "so I can get away, and have 
that free time to myself, instead of being 
at home with that free time and doing:--
23 
----------------------------------------~· ~--------~ 


--- Page 24 ---

-
other things." True to the VOP's model of 
empowerment, she now teaches sewing 
to other women who come in wanting to 
learn. Acquiring a skill and being able to 
teach it, Feldman says, helps women like 
Comelita believe that there was a point to 
their suffering 
that it has equipped them 
to understand and aid others like them. 

"I just love being in the sewing room," 
Johnnie-Anne says. "I just love being 
here." Like Comelita, she is a daily pres-
ence at the VO P, and has been coming 
for eight years. She came in with a: drug 
addiction and a serious violent streak, but 
she smiles now as she promises that she'll 
be here "until Sue tells me I got to go." 
If Sue gives her the go-ahead, she plans to 
start teaching a class in jewelry-making 
for women who have not yet advanced to 
the sewing room. The VOP has taught her 
how to make candles and soaps, and she's 
eager to learn more crafts. Johnnie-Anne 
wants to take her accumulated skills be-
yond the VOP basement, even beyond the 
regular crafts sales that the VOP sponsors 
every Friday, where its clients' work is sold 
to fund the purchase of more materials for 
the crafts-room and any personal items 
these clients might need, · ftom eyeglasses 
to bus passes (the women don't receive 
hard cash for their work, in case it might 
trigger a relapse). With the support of the 
VOP, Johnnie-Anne plans tO start her own 
craft-selling business in the basement of 
the home that she aspires to buy. Johnnie-
Anne realizes that this particular equation 
rests on a string of maybes, but, she says, 
the VOP has given her hope that this kind 
of self-sufficiency may soon be possible. 

The sewing room is one of the incen-
tives Feldman has developed to help her 
clients stay clean. When they first arrive 
at VOP, many of the women have anger 
management problems that compound 
their addictions. But, as they progress 
toward sobriety, clients who show a great 
deal of improvement in social skills and 
professionalism might be invited to work 
the reception desk. Being asked to moni-
tor the telephone is a sign of competence 
and responsibility, and Feldman reports 
that women will often argue with each 
other over who will get the job. "Rather 
than focus on illness, like you would do in 
a traditional therapy situation ... our whole 
approach is, <What do you love to do?"' 
she explains. "Rather than initially focus-
ing on deficits and weaknesses and prob-
24 
lems, first we focus on who you are, what 
are you strengths, what you iove to do." 

If there's a model for the VOR 
it is the one-room schoolhouse, 
in which students of all ages 
and skill levels interact and 
learn with one another, the 
more advanced ones· nudging 
the novices along until they 
become teachers in their own 
right. 

Feldman refuses to be discouraged by 
clients who, when they first enter the VOP, 
claim that they have no passions or skills. 
She'll direct them to start stringing beads, 
something that anyone can do. The mod-
est income that women like Johnnie-Anne 
and Comelita have begun to earn through 
the sale of their crafts demonstrates the 
immediate practical benefits that this 
kind of creativity can bring, but Feldman 
points to another, longer-lasting advan-
tage to a work-based approach to recovery.· 
"By finding her own strength and beauty, 
~ 
any woman can grow into age-appropriate 
tasks: being a parent, being a citizen, being 
an employee. It's a developmental process." 

She envisions a future for the VOP as a 
women's micro-business cooperative, in 
which each client will eventually be skilled 
enough to make 
and profit from-
crafts. "We want to be a movement," she 
says with a laugh, comparing the VOP 
to a company like the Body Shop, which 
started small and, by marketing a particu-
lar kind of natural and eco-friendly prod-
uct, grew into a massive franchise. "Buy 
things made by women in recovery who 
are homeless, because that will make your 
community a humane place, rather than 
supporting a big CEO-corporation," Feld-
man says. This goal has become a major fo-
cus of her organization, which recognizes 
that even women who have physically re-
covered from an addiction can't succeed in 
today's world without achieving economic 
independence. Until about ten years ago, 
Feldman explains, "the connection be-
tween work apd recovery wa5 very fuzzy, 
because programs are always stepped. Poli-
cy-makers would say, (First get them clean 
and sober, and address their mental health 
issues. Then they can go and train and get 
a job.' Well, that never made sense to me. 
What's the motivation for someone to get




**The VOP: A Haven for Women in Recovery**
**Author: Alexandra Schwartz**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
well if they're still poor and can't support 
themselves?" 

The VOP's dual approach to recovery 
is non-negotiable, according to Feldman. 
Women may come for group therapy ses-
sions but insist that they don't want to par-
ticipate in the crafts making, or vice-versa, · 
but caseworkers will steer them towards 
both. Even though they have not relapsed 
recently and describe themselves as stable 
and happy, Johnnie-Anne and Comelita 
remain active participants in a variety of 
groups, from the regular morning meet-
ing, at which clients describe their daily 
progress, to the spirituality and Bible-
reading sessions. 


As sucCESSFUL AS the VOP's structure 
tends to be, there are moments when its 
sheer flexibility can prove problematic. 
Women don't need an official referral to 
participate in any of its programs, and 
most come with friends who have told 
them about the organization. 'Ibis infor-
mality makes the VOP uniquely acces-
sible, hut it also means that there are few 
formal mechanisms in place for ensuring 
that clients follow through on their inten-
tions to get well. There are no twelve steps 
here, no regimen of any kind. 

The informality and openness of the 
February 2009 
group sessions also create a complicated 
dynamic between those who are far along 
in the recovery process, those who are just 
beginning, and those who may not have 
come to the VO P to recover at all. Some-
one who has never been addicted to alco-
hol cannot casually sit in on an Alcoholics' 
_ Anonymous meeting, but a female visitor 
who has never suffered from an addiction 
or from poverty or homelessness will be 
welcomed into the VOP community.witb 
extraordinary hospitality simply by virtue 
of being a woman. She may be invited to 
sit in on group sessions without sharing 
anything personal about herself, and she 
can even allow herself to be lulled into feel-
ing a degree of comfort there. But barriers 
inevitably remain. Josephine, friendly and 
blunt as ever, doesn't object to the presence 
of a stranger in most of the sessions she 
leads, but she takes care to remind all who 
are present that the only people who can 
really help each other through addiction 
and destitution are those who have been 
there themselves. 

"We sit in groups with people who have 
no idea what it's like," she says, her voice 
rising as she looks me straight in the eyes. 
"No idea what it's like to have an addic-
tion." In a group discussion on recovery 
skills, a woman flares up at the idea that 
• 
someone could listen to her personal ex-
periences without sharing_ any of her own. 
"I wouldn't have said none of that if I had 
known there was a visitor," she shouts. "It's 
not fair." 

Still, the VOP's flexibility may be its 
greatest asset. Every woman who visits 
chooses consciously to do so. Just walking 
in the door is a deliberate act of empow-
erment. "Today is my perfect example of 
.. 
. 
. . 
'' 
turning a negative mto a positive, says 
another woman in Josephine's group, also 
named Mary. She had come in late, and 
explains that after missing an important 
doctor's appointment ea.dkr in the morn-
ing, she thought about gC?ing to drink with 
her cousin afterwards. "But ~nstead, I came 
right here," she says. The group applauds. 
"Ladies, I think we had a pretty good 
group today," Josephine says, jumping out 
of her seat. "If anybody would like to say 
the Serenity Prayer with me, please stand." 
There is a scraping of chairs, and the wom-
en hold hands and recite together: God, 
grant us the serenity to accept the things we 
cannot change, courage to change the things 
we can, and the wisdom to know the differ-
ence. The women applaud again and begin 
to clear food and papers from the table in 
the center of the room. Beads are set out 
in large plastic jars, elastic thread spooled 
onto plastic plates. The women chat as 
they begin to bead, designing necklaces 
and bracelets to sell, keep for themselves, 
or give as gifts to friends and family. The 
craft-making has the feel of an informal 
group session. Someone's daughter is hav-
ing trouble in the foster care system. An-
other is worrying about eviction. A third 
says that her mother is going into surgery 
again. She is silent for a moment. "But," 
she says emphatically, her voice growing 
loud, "nothing is wrong with me!" There is 
laughter, and she continues. ''I'm fine," she 
"I' fin " 
says, 
m 
e. 
Alexandra Schwartz, a senior in Saybrook 
College, is copy editor o 
J.


**One graphic designer in a new generation of feminism.**
**Author: Nicole Allan**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

THE 
Rl 

Yale is covered in text. I don't always see 
it and I don't always read it, but it's all over 
buildings, statues, bulletin boards, por-
traits, and signs. It's often titular: "John 
C. Calhoun," "Nathan Hale," "James 
Woolsey," "Kingman Brewster." It's often 
institutional: "The Yale Political Union," 
"Mory's," "The Whiffenpoofs." Recently, 
it's often been hateful: "N****r," "sluts." 

For Jessica Svendsen MC '09, this text 
is also masculine, connoting a mostly male 
institutional history and culture. When, 

26 

this January, she began printing words on 
sheets of paper and piecing them into grids 
on bulletin boards across campus 
in Lin-
sley-Chittenden and William Harkness 
Halls, on Cross Campus, on Old Campus, 
on Rose Walk 
she was re-covering Yale 
with text she hoped would actively make 
visual and conceptual space for women. 

First, she recalls, she had to blanket a 
masculinized history with its feminine 
counterpart. "One of the things that has 
worried me during my time here is the lack 
of institutional memory," Svendsen says, 
her slow, flat voice presenting her thoughts 
in an elegant grid. "Yes, we're only here for 
four years, but we're not aware of what has 
happened to women since 1969. Because 
there is no knowledge of history or recov-
ering of history, we make the same mis-
takes." In order to assert this alternate his-
tory, she combed through Yale Daily News 
and University archives and read articles 
and reports related to women at Yale. She 
then excerpted parts of these articles and, 
in striking white font, set them on a black 
timeline from 1969 to 2009. This timeline, 
which Svendsen printed in 8.5-by-11-inch 
sections and arranged in 1 02-by-44-inch 
displays on bulletin boards across campus, 
was the first installation of a graphic de-
sign project she has titled "Graphic Femi-
nism." Svendsen, an English major who 
takes graphic design classes and designs for 
several Yale organizations, began work on 
the project last semester. She obtained an 
Amy Rossborough Fellowship for service 
affecting women in New Haven and began 
rooting through archives, as well as inter-
viewing undergraduate women about their 
experiences with feminism at Yale. 

Svendsen's project is historically satu-
rated, both with the history of women 
at Yale and with the history of women in 
art. In the 1960s and '70s, as the women's 
liberation movement caught fire in the 
American political, social, and cultural 
spheres, women began to make feminist 
. art. An made by women, or even art 
THE NEW JOURNAL 


made by women with a feminist intent, 
was not new, but this art was different. It 
was a movement in which, as Washington 
Post critic Blake Gopnik recalled in 2007, 
"the message has mattered as much as the 
medium." Feminist artists challenged the 
traditional idea of the sacred art object and 
began to include voices and perspectives 
that had historically been silenced. In the 
field of graphic design, this meant display-
ing multiple perspectives in one design, 
breaking down the structured modernist 
grid to reveal the artist's subjectivity, and 
cognitively engaging the viewer. 

The message-over-medium approach 
was 
and 
is 
nowhere 
more 
present 
than in the work of the Guerilla Girls, 
a group of gorilla mask-wearing female 
artists founded in the 1980s that attacks 
gender and racial discrimination in poli-
tics and the art world using intervention-
ist, often illegal posters, stickers, and bill-
boards. Their designs are not meant to be 
savored in a museum but rather to catch 
the eye of a pedestrian and force him or 
her to think about societal structures in a 
new way. One of the Guerilla Girls' most 
famous campaigns, in 1989, featured In-
gres's Odalisque wearing a gorilla mask 
and flanking the text: "Do women have to 
be naked to get into the Met. Museum? 
Less than 5o/o of the artists in the Modern 
Art sections are women, but 85°/o of the 
nudes are female." The poster is shaded a 
shocking yellow and purple, its typeface a 
simple black shot through with pink for 
emphasis. 

Svendsen's unauthorized postering can't 
help but recall the Guerilla Girls, and in 
many ways, her posters reflect their de-
signs. A key component of Graphic Femi-
nism is its blog, which Svendsen updates 
frequently under a pseudonym; in person, 
"Grid Girl"'s cat-eye glasses cut an ap-
propriately graphic image across her arc-
ing forehead. When she tells me about 
her project, she uses the term "guerrilla'' 
more than once. Having long navigated 
Yale's postering policies, Svendsen simul-
taneously honors and trashes them with 
Graphic Feminism. University regulations 
allow one 8.5-by-11-inch poster per item 
on each of its official bulletin boards, so 
Svendsen divides her installation into 
twenty or thirty 8.5-by-11-inch chunks 
and then staples them over other flyers. 
"'When you take up the entirety of a bul-
letin board to make people think about 
women at Yale," she explains, "that inserts 
women into the campus space and makes 
people talk about it. When I post the de-
signs up and cover space, then, in a way, 
I'm making space for women." Her posters 
are often removed by Yale Recycling mere 
hours after she installs them, but this, of 
course, is part of the fun. 

"When you take up the entire-
ty o a bulletin board to make 
people think about women 
at Yale, " Svendsen explains, 
cthat inserts women into the 
campus space and makes peo-
ple talk about it." 

SHEILA 
LEVRANT 
DE 
BRE'ITEVILLE, 
current director of the Yale Art School's 
graphic design program, coined the term 
"feminist design" in the 1970s. After earn-
ing her M.F.A. at Yale in 1964, de Brette-
ville went on to upend the design world, 
founding the first design program for 
women at CalArts as well as Los Angeles's 
legendary Woman's Building, a feminist 
art and culture center, in 1971. When she 
was tapped as director ofYale's design pro-
gram in 1990, becoming the first tenured 
woman at the Art School, her radical theo-
_ries prompted the resignations of several 
of the School's more traditional faculty 
members. 

Throughout the latter half of the twen-_ 
tieth century, Yale had been a center of 
the International or Swiss Style, often 
characterized by dean, readable grids and 
strong sans serif fonts, and developed al-
most entirely by men. De Bretteville, who 
had been trained in this style as a graduate 
student at Yale, wanted to "honor the in-
telligence of the viewer rather than talking 
at the viewer," she remembers. By engag-
ing artist and viewer in a kind of dialogue, 
de Bretteville called both parties' genders, 
and how these genders might affect their 
perspectives, into question. 

"Feminist design looks for graphic 
strategies that will enable us to listen to 
people who have not been heard from be-
fore," de Bretteville said in a 1990 dialogue 
with designer Ellen Lupton. Recalling 
feminist design strategies she'd pursued in 
the '80s, de Bretteville continued "Having 


**Feminist Design: A New Dialogue**
**Author: Nicole Allan**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
•
.
the words and the images contradict them-
selves also creates a productive tension, by 
asking the viewer to resolve the conflict 
and thus bring his or her thinking process 
and point of view into play."
. Though de Bretteville still prizes the 
subjectivity of the designer and the intel-
ligence of the viewer, she no longer views 
these factors through the lens of gender .. 
"When I first began, in 1969, to think 
about questioning what gender has to do 
with how women make . things," she re-
called recently, "I really enjoyed the ques-
tion-asking aspect of it because it meant 
thinking, it meant feeling, it meant really 
looking at experience ·as well as what has 
been written about gender .... At one point 
in the '80s, before I came back to Yale, I 
thought it was useful to call that act 'femi-
nist design' because it's so easy to discount 
gender as being participant in this discus-
sion. I still think that's conceptually im-
portant, but how you do it now, it's worth 
considering."
How Svendsen is doing it is indicative 
of a new feminist era less focused on gender 
differences and more focused on how gen-
der affects the day-to-day live$ of both men 
and women. While her work employs de 
Bretteville's multiple-perspective and view-
er-engagement strategies, it is also steeped 
in the Swiss Style de Bretteville was ques-
tioning and, as director of Yale's graphic 
design program, replacing. Svendsen uses 
bold, simple fonts arranged on strict grids, 
and her posters are recognizably crisp and 
readable, but in no way does she consider 
these stylistic choices inherently male or 
female. Her feminism emerges not in the 
style of her work the medium 
but in 
its content 
the message.
On January 15, 
Svendsen posted 
anonymous reader comments taken from 
the Yale Daily News website. She hori-
zontally anchored her display with the 
large phrase, "Your comments here." Iri a 
grid set over and around this phrase, she 
arranged the comments, all responding 
to last year's most explosively gendered 
events: Zeta Psi's online posting of a photo 
of twelve pledges standing in front of the 
Yale Women's Center holding a sign that 
read "We love Yale sluts," and Aliza Sh-
varts DC '08's projected artistic rendering 
of a series of self-induced abortions. These 
comments expressed everything from a 
reluctance to associate with the. Women's 
Center 
"Women constitute 50o/o of the 
28 
student body ... Please don't think that 
just because you are part of an institu-
tion that calls itself the Women's Center 
you have the right to speak for all women 
at Yale"
to misogynistic jokes 
"How 
many feminists does it take to screw iri a 
lightbulb? Two: One to screw it in and one 
to suck my penis." The juxtaposition of 
varying texts and perspectives creates· the 
kind of"productive tension" de Bretteville 
cited as a way to critically engage viewers 
and prompt the questions of difference 
needed to address gender disparity and 
discrimination, whether or not Svendsen's 
style was originally developed by men.
In using graphic design to 
provoke 
discussion 
about 
eminism on campus~ ·Svend-
sen takes a functionalist ap-
proach to her art. ·
FEMINIST DIALOGUE these days, both 
within and without the art world, tends 
to center on glass ceilings rather than on 
gendered perspectives. At a ·much-talked 
about New York panel on book design, 
one of the questions submitted to panel-
ists Milton Glaser, Dave Eggers, and Chip 
· Kidd asked why there were so few "su-
perstar" female graphic designers. Kidd 
broke the awkward silence .with a Larry 
Summers · joke, and then Glaser asserted 
that women miss out on foundational 
career opportunities by choosing to stay 
home and raise children.
·This incident sparked uproar in many 
circles, especially within the design world. 
Michael Bierut, a senior critic at the Yale 
Art School and moderator of the contro-
versial panel discussion, reacted on his 
award-winning blog, Design Observer. In 
a post titled "The Graphic Glass Ceiling," 
Bierut acknowledged gender imbalance at 
his own design firm and contemplated the 
possibility that Glaser; despite his archaic 
phrasing, might have spoken a shred of 
truth.
Jessica Helfand, who founded Design 
Observer with Bierut and also serves as a 
senior art critic at Yale, certainly thinks 
that lifestyle choices weigh heavily on 
women graphic designers. While design-
ing the New York Times's first website, 
Helfand became pregnant with her first · 
of two children. Wary of endangering 
her job, she did her best to hide her preg-
nancy. "I think it's a very female thing to 
assume that one thing would stand in the 
way of the other," she says, "or that there's 
a dissonance."
A recent Graphic Feminism install-
ment tackled the proverbial glass ceiling 
within the glass walls of the Bass Library 
cafe, one of several places where it was in-
stalled. Svendsen, who has worked exten-
sively with the Women's Faculty Forum, 


--- Page 29 ---

compiled statistics on everything from 
tenured women, to maternity leave poli-
cies, to the number of reported sexual as-
saults on campus, arranging the numbers 
in mathematical columns that add up to 
a blank space next to the words, "Number 
ofYale students who identify as feminist."
Svendsen herself identifies as a femi-
nist, thought not necessarily as a feminist 
graphic designer. In using graphic design 
to provoke discussion about feminism on 
campus, she takes a functionalist approach 
to her art. A recent display on· the topic of 
the Women's Center was not only cleanly 
laid out, with asymmetrical space, a central 
women's restroom symbol, and striking or-
ange accents 
it was successful in spark-
ing dialogue about feminism at Yale. This 
installation, which displayed anonymous 
statements from six Yale women who iden-
tified as feminists but took issue with the 
Women's Center, drew more comments 
· on Graphic Feminism's blog than any 
other post. Some of these comments were, 
clearly, from current or former Women's 
Center board members, but many of them 
were from men or women who chose not 
to associate with the Center. All were re-
spectful of the other comments 
a stark 
contrast to the YDN comments Svendsen 
used in her earlier installation 
and much 
of the stream was back-and-forth and re-
garded specific Women's Center policy or 
events. This, for the most part, is the kind 
of constructive dialogue Graphic Femi-
nism seeks to incite.
Perhaps we no longer need to talk _ 
about how gender affects perception and 
presentation, or, as de Bretteville implied, 
perhaps this need varies according to an 
individual's personal trajectory. But at 
Yale, today, there is an urgent need for dis-
cussion about feminism. There is a need 
for Graphic Feminism.
TN
Nicole Allan, a senior in Calhoun College, 
is editor-in-chief o
J.
February 2009
r

**Waiting for Obama**
**Author: Mitch Reich**
**Page number(s): 30**

The first time I didn't quite see Obama 
in person, I spent the night alternately 
watching election returns and feverishly. 
vomiting the full contents of my stomach. 
It was there, in the Nashua South High 
School gym, where the then-senator was 
set to give his "Yes We Can" speech after 
he lost the New Hampshire primary, that I 
thought it was all over for both of us. Just 
half an hour before Obama spoke, I finally 
succumbed to the flu and passed out while 
a national campaign staffer standing nearby 
called an ambulance.
'Tm so sorry about this," I said while we 
waited.
"Nonsense," she told me. "There'll be 
plenty of other victory parties to go to." I 
thought she was delusional 
Clinton had 
won and this was the end. We'd have to wait 
a long time to see a party like this again.
I was right about the waiting, at least.
As it turns out, we were the ones we'd been 
waiting in line for. And judging by my trip 
down to the Inauguration, not even in 
lines, but rather in endless, vaguely orient-
ed mobs stretching miles around the Wash-
ington Mall, itself filled with thousands of 
furred and fleeced people and unverifiable 
rumors that there was an entrance in that 
direction or that Obama's motorcade had 
finally left the White House.
We'd been willing to wait patiently even 
30 
though, once we made it inside, there was 
absolutely nothing to do. "I can't see a single 
thing," a woman, her hands m~nernally and 
inexplicably gripping my shoulders, cheer-
fully told me while we were standing on the 
Mall. 'Tll just watch it on TV when I get 
back to the hotel room."
Some of us brave souls waited perched 
atop Port-a-Potties. Others debated wheth-
er Lynne Cheney and Laura Bush were 
truly evil enough to deserve being heck-
led when their faces appeared on the giant 
"jumbotron" screen or if they'd just picked 
the wrong men at the wrong time. One 
high-schooler tirelessly solicited the crowd: 
"Since there's. nothing else to do, let's do the 
Wave!"
Some of us, to be honest, weren't all that 
willing to wait. One of my busmates from 
Yale explained on the ride back to New Ha-
ven that, even though he had a ticket to. the 
Inauguration, to the holy center of the ho-
liest of events, where viewers had a direct 
line of vision to Obama himself, it wasn't 
worth figuring out which of a dozen lines he 
was supposed to stand on in twenty-degree 
weather. "We just watched it from inside an 
Irish pub with a bunch of Hill staffers," he 
said. "They were pretty much on the same 
page as us. We drank Irish car bombs and 
booed when Dick Cheney came on."
Some of us were all too willing to . 
wait. My buddy-for-the-day, Rachel, and 
I walked past a line half a mile long, five 
people wide, snaking .through a tunnel that 
passed under the Mall. We speculated on 
why everyone was so orderly, considering 
that they literally could not see the light at 
the end of the tunnel. "I guess there's a low 
douchiness quotient today," we decided. As 
we later found out, most of these people:-
who had tickets which happened to be la-
beled "purple" 
nearly rioted because they 
never made it out of the infamous Purple 
Tunnel of Doom in time for the ceremony.
But I was the Goldilocks of waiting. I 
waited for the bus to pick us up from New 
Haven at 2 a.m., and for the driver to find 
his way back onto the right highway after 
getting lost somewhere in Maryland. I wait-
ed for Rachel, whom I'd never spoken to 
before, to laugh at a single one of my jokes 
throughout ten hours spent standing in the 
cold. I waited until that guy twenty feet in 
front of me tilted his head the other way so 
I could see the jumbotron while the presi-
dent took the oath. I'd waited a long time 
for this; I could wait a little more.
Mitch Reich, a senior in Pierson College, is 
a managing editor o



**Title:  None**
**Author: None**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
, 
ER 
0-COORDINATOR, ALE 
-
USTAINABLE 
OD 
RO ECT 
HURSDAY, 
EBRUARY 
EA SERVED AT 
: 
ONVERSATION FROM 
February 2009 
31 


**Page number(s): 32**

' 

