Publication date: November 9, 1999
Volume: 32
Issue number: 3

**MASTHEAD:**
- **PUBLISHER:** David Slifka
- **EDITOR-IN-CHIEF:** Michael Giblin
- **MANAGING EDITORS:** Jan Becher, Daniel Brook
- **DESIGNER:** Nicholas Jitkoff
- **PRODUCTION MANAGER:** Eric Rothkopf
- **BUSINESS MANAGER:** Navin Manglani
- **PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR:** Andrew Youn
- **ASSOCIATE BUSINESS MANAGER:** Makiko Harunari
- **ASSOCIATE EDITOR:** John Swansburg
- **RESEARCH DIRECTORS:** Julia Karaganis, Alan Schoenfeld
- **CIRCULATION AND SUBSCRIPTIONS MANAGER:** Anya Kamenetz


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- War and Peace - Jada Yuan
- Selling the Drama - Alan Schoenfeld
- The College Try - Sydney Leavens
- Breaking a Sweat - Anya Kamenetz
- Sub-Contract Killers - Alexander Dworkowitz
- When Viruses Attack - Michael Gerber
- The Right Stuff - Daniel Brook
- Shots in the Dark: Music to the Eyes - Whitney Grace
- Dueling Personalities - John Swansburg
- Points of Departure
- Essay: Clean Sweep - Andrew Youn
- The Critical Angle: Hartman's Greatest Hits - Simon Hanft
- Endnote: The Million-Dollar Men - Ian Blumberg


**Title: Sweet Relief**
**Author:  N/A**
**Page number(s): 2**

**Title: Test Anxiety**
**Author: Mica Bulman**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Her voice negotiating a path between resolute politician and placating mother, State Senator Toni Harp assures me that a recent Connecticut law mandating HIV testing for newborns benefits born infants and rheir families. The law, as Harp explains it, prescribes routine and uniform HIV resting within 48 hours of birth and is primarily intended to limit HTV contraction by newborns. She elaborates with an impressive statistic-the 30 percent risk of an infant receiving HIV from its mother can be reduced to 8 percent if the baby is treated within 48 hours. Harp labors through her endorsement of the law before accelerating to rehearsed sound bites: "Children deserve the right to have someone care for them knowing what they're up against. What mother wouldn't want this?" 

Her plea is convincing. Who would oppose a law seeking to combat HIV transmission to infants? But, as legal briefs challenging the law indicate, it's not that simple. 

The 31 member hospitals of the Connecticut Hospital Association (CHA), in concert with other Connecticut medical facilities, have filed a lawsuit seeking to overturn the statute. Why would hospitals oppose such legislation benefitting newborns? The answer to this question lies outside the frame of public health in the murkier areas of privacy, patient-doctor relations. Viewed in terms of these rights and privileges, the law no longer seems the boon to public welfare that Harp champions. 

"It's a back-door way of testing the mother," Jennifer Jackson, general counsel for the CHA, crisply asserts. "Newborns do not create their own antibodies, so any test of the newborn's antibodies is actually a test of the mother." The law, it turns out, is not precisely what Harp has explained. HIV tests are not routinely administered to every newborn-only to those whose mothers have refused testing during pregnancy. If the woman has not been tested earlier in her pregnancy, she is tested during active labor unless she objects in writing. Her objection is ultimately meaningless, however, because her child's antibodies-which are the mother's, not the child's own-are tested at birth, revealing the mother's HIV status. A positive test result does not indicate that the child has contracted HIV, but merely that the mother is HIV positive. 

Senator Harp compares HIV testing to routine testing for other conditions, such as sickle-cell anemia. When I ask about the stigma associated with AIDS, Harp admits that women may be concerned. "People fear the test will get into the wrong hands and have a negative impact"-she quickly glides back into politician mode-"but the issues have changed. People are living with AIDS, not dying. We focus on how to support people while they live and work. We need to get the word out." Her enthusiasm is disconcertingly saccharine compared to Jackson's candid warning. "AIDS needs to be treated, prevented, and handled differently from other diseases," she cautions. "The stigma associated with AIDS is a genuine threat." 

The CHA argues that testing a woman's antibodies against her will, however circuitously, constitutes an unreasonable search forbidden by the Fourth Amendment. 

The law also violates a woman's right to privacy, claims the CHA, because the testing invades her body and is not confidential. At least one other person-the doctor-has access to the results. 

Privacy and Fourth Amendment rights are legitimate concerns. For the CHA, they are also valuable weapons in winning a judicial battle. In the United States, where controversial political debates are often played out in the courtroom, it's best to be well armed with constitutional protections and court precedents. But for the medical professionals involved, legal considerations are secondary to the health risks of compulsory HIV testing. 

For one, the HIV test isn't infallible. With a false positive rate of approximately one percent, the test will incorrectly diagnose roughly 420 infants born in Connecticut per year, the CHA claims. These infants are likely to be treated with powerful drugs such as AZT, the long-term effects of which are not yet known, and the false diagnosis will also place unnecessary stress on the mother during the already stressful postpartum period. 

More important to the CHA, however, is the burden placed on patient-doctor relations. "The law is in many ways counterproductive," insists Jackson. "When the mother is tested against her will, this violates the trust between her and her provider, and she may cease to seek health care." The law only mandates testing for HIV, not treatment. If a woman feels that the system is working against rather than with her, she may abandon courses of treatment and even avoid giving birth at the hospital. 

The CHA, Jackson is quick to emphasize, does not oppose all testing but maintains that "a therapeutic, rather than coercive, setting enhances the mother's trust in the medical community and prompts her to take appropriate health measures." Also, testing the child is far less effective than testing the mother during pregnancy, because most HIV transmission occurs during labor and delivery, and caesarean-section deliveries and proper drugs can reduce HIV transmission rates to three percent. 

The CHA boasts that the system it advocates-comprehensive prenatal counseling with testing strongly recommended-yields voluntary testing rates of approximately 99 percent of pregnant women. 

Ultimately, then, the question is not whether testing is desirable. No one wants infants to be born with HIV, and all concur that testing is a necessary first step in preventing transmission of the virus. Who can disagree with Senator Harp that mothers should want to take all measures necessary to reduce the chances of passing HIV on to their children, including testing themselves and their infants? 

But the controversy surrounding the new law extends far beyond blood tests, plucking insistently at the tension between government regulations and individual rights, public welfare and personal privacy. Is a guess at a child's HIV status worth the risk of isolating the mother from the medical establishment? Is it wise to strong-arm the relatively few women who will not test voluntarily, or would it be wiser to mandate counseling that appeals to maternal concerns? Ultimately, the courts must decide which will dictate social policy: government paternalism or maternal rights. 


**Title: Cleaning House**
**Author: Emily Bronig**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

When a two-year-old has lived with a bottle for his entire life, getting him to give it up can be tricky. There's a glue that binds him to the feel of the plastic nipple and the readily accessible juice. But that glue has to be broken, though the process can be painful. While this child is adjusting to milk from a sipper cup, just a few rooms away his mother is undergoing group therapy to overcome her own more destructive addiction. Located on Howe Street in downtown New Haven, Amethyst House is an organization that helps mothers overcome their drug addictions in a live-in program while providing intensive support and treatment for their young children. 

Women enter the program on their own initiative. The program is essentially fee; the women pay with welfare checks to emphasize the role they play in their own recovery. Mothers may bring children five years old or younger. These condensed families live and work together in order to keep the program running. Daily chores are divided among the women receiving treatment, and a network of relationships builds quickly. Mothers take turns watching each other's children, soon developing attachments to those in their care. The program provides the stability these kids have lacked for much of their lives. 

"The issues are so out there with kids-neglect is here. It's a part of life," said Bernetta Witcher-Boeteng, program director. "But these kids love their mothers, and they want to be with them." 

Children frequently enter with emotional issues, speech problems and, in some infants, body rigidity stemming from heroin damage in utero. Amethyst does not treat severe physical problems but deals with the impact drug-addicted parents have on their children. 

"It is crucial to intervene while these kids are younger," said Witcher-Boeteng. "Most of the impact is environmental. It is stability versus insanity." 

In therapeutic nursery school groups, kids begin to learn skills to help them interact with their peers. According to Wendy Cohn, the children in her care must learn how to express themselves verbally, emotionally, and artistically, and how to get along in a peaceful way with the others. 

Along with developing social skills, the nursery school works in conjunction with therapy to reinforce progress. For example, young children with articulation problems may be taught a form of sign language that is used by the therapist, the mother, and the nursery school teacher. As language develops further, teachers begin to reinforce what the child vocalizes, and sign language becomes obsolete. 

Amethyst does not stop at alleviating language and peer interaction problems. Bill Mannie, parent educator and family clinician, works with mothers and children in a weekly session called Watch, Wait, and Wonder to repair mother/child relationships. Many children who enter the program are the victims of abuse and neglect, and have had to care for themselves and often younger siblings. "These sessions reestablish trust," said Cohn. "The kids are taught new coping strategies and skills along with their mothers in a safe and secure place." 

Often, a stay at Amethyst House puts women back on their feet and in a position to take control of their lives, as well as the lives of their children. However, things do not always work as planned. Women relapse, leave without notice, miss sessions and bring in illegal substances, which often means the end of a stay at Amethyst for the women and their children. A lapse in recovery places kids with relatives or in foster care--as social workers and the courts decide--and the chances of the mother regaining custody are uncertain. 

Such a transition tears at the stability Amethyst has worked to build. 

For those kids still living in the small family bedrooms across the hall from the nursery, life continues as usual. Ultimately, however, the goal is for families to leave Amethyst. The program is available to women for a year, after which the staff hopes that families will be able to live on their own without further problems with drugs or alcohol. Ideally, Amethyst gives children the time to develop at a normal pace in a healthy setting, leaving them with skills that can be taken to public school and eventually out into their lives, ending the abuse and instability of their early childhood. 


**Title: Fed Up**
**Author:  [Author not specified]**
**Page number(s): 6**

"Fat acceptance." "Size rights." "Size diversity empowerment." "Size esteem." Over the past thirty years, fat activists have coined these and similar terms in a grassroots effort to fight size-based social and economic discrimination. The last of those terms, "size esteem," was coined by Richard Stimson, a size-rights and mental health activist and co-director of New Haven-based Largesse, the Network for Size Esteem. "Size esteem is a very important component of your health," says Stimson, Richard's wife and the founder of Largesse. "We're interested in people's health-mental, social, physical-independently of weight loss. Everyone deserves to feel good about their body, as well as about themselves generally." Karen Stimson became active in the size-rights movement shortly after its inception in 1969. Despite her efforts to open discussion about the issue and to bring important size-rights events to New Haven, city residents have been relatively unresponsive. "It's a fairly conservative area," says Karen. 

The size-rights movement began in 1969 with the founding of NAAPA, the National Association to Aid Fat Americans, now known as the National Association to Advance Fat Acceptance. NAAFA originally promoted civil rights for fat people and helped to focus the movement, but made few substantial gains for fat acceptance. 

During the 1970s, a group of radical fat feminists broke away from the movement, publishing position papers, writing a Fat Liberation Manifesto, and generally shaping fat politics. Medical research of the late 1970s and early 1980s supported the fat underground's claims that diets do not work and that being fat is not a health hazard. This research, especially the work done by Susan Wooley, an eating disorders specialist at the University of Cincinnati, also gave the size-rights movement inroads into the academic community. 

At the same time, growing grassroots efforts to organize and discuss fat-rights issues in Boston, Atlanta and Minneapolis brought the message to a wider audience. The first Fat Feminist Active Working Meeting was held in New Haven in 1980 with 17 participants from around the country, including Karen Stimson. Five of those women were invited to form a keynote panel at a women's health fair going on at the same time. This marked the first time the feminist community acknowledged size-rights issues. 

Around the time of the fat feminist convention, Karen was also involved in alternative radio and fat women's consciousness-raising in New Haven. In 1982, she founded a fat support group which grew into a broader national network with the help of groups in several other states. In the late 1980s Largesse started publishing size-esteem bulletins and a newsletter entitled "Nothing to Lose," in addition to selling legal information and size-empowerment kits. Largesse no longer distributes print material, but the Stimsons are currently trying to make their substantial archive of fat-rights information available at the new Largesse website. "We've evolved from a group to a publishing company to a resource network, and that's what we are now. By having stuff on the web, it's accessible to everybody," says Karen. 

The site currently provides a variety of resources-legal information, self-help literature, archives of the fat liberation movement, information about International No Diet Day, and links to other groups and fat-acceptance websites. The opening page displays two of Richard's contributions to the size rights movement: the definition of size esteem as "feeling acceptance of, respect for, and pride in one's body, whatever its size or shape," and his "Invocation for the Size Rights Movement," a poem about the struggle against size oppression. "Let the voices for size rights be heard," it begins, "From the highest mountain to the deepest valley /In cities, towns, and villages /wherever humankind may dwell." Karen's writings are also featured prominently on the site. 

Her "Fat Feminist Herstory, 1969-1993" details the history of the size-rights movement and her participation in it. The Stimsons together composed a series of ten affirmations for size esteem, such as "I am strong, healthy and beautiful just the way I am right now." 

Despite her lengthy career as a size-rights activist, Karen does not see her role as a movement leader. "My style has always been to lead from the rear, which is to




**Title: The Size-Rights Movement in New Haven**
**Author: Nadia Sussman**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
influence people," she says. "We're not really interested in putting ourselves out as leaders of the movement. We're more interested in helping individuals arfd providing links for people to other groups and information, whether that's weight-discrimination resources, finding an attorney, finding information for their kid." Personal responses to the Stimsons in the form of daily letters and emails, often from high school, college and graduate students, show that the information does indeed reach and affect people. Karen also has observed broader changes in American attitudes toward size rights during her career. 
"There's been a real evolution in public perception about people of size and I think the size-rights movement has been largely responsible for that. In some ways we've made a lot of strides ahead. We've got a long way to go," she said. 
But isn't being fat unhealthy? "You have to be careful about what I call the medical propaganda wing of the diet industry," Karen warns. According to her, medical standards for healthy body weights have been revised downward while people have been getting taller, and ·these factors combined tend to skew statistics. Nonetheless, it is unclear whether this can account for the dramatic increases in weight shown in recent reports. The Centers for Disease Control reponed that 17.8 percent of Americans were considered obese in 1998, up from 12 percent in 1991. 
Although New Haven activists have helped to promote the size-rights movement, size-rights activism has largely died our here. "New Haven doesn't have an active size-rights group at this point and hasn't for a while," says Karen. The closest NAAFA chapter, located in Milford, has little effect on the New Haven community. So while New Haven, specifically Largesse, remains the home of extensive archives documenting the emergence of the size-rights movement, its residents must cultivate size . esteem on their own. The Stimsons, meanwhile, will continue to make their archives available over the net, hoping, as Richard says in his "Invocation for the . Size Rights Movement," to "· .. plant in the hearts and I minds I Of every child, woman, and man I The seeds of size diversity I empowerment." 
NOVEMBER 19, 1999 
~ 
-Nadia Sussman


**Title:  A Peace Activist's Jail Sentence**
**Author: Jada Yuan**
**Page number(s): 8, 9**

JULY 2, 1999, WAS A TYPICAL first Friday for Philip Colville. He led a prayer meeting at 9 A.M., distributed fruit and vegetables at the Caesar Jerez Catholic until 12:30 PM, and drove from New Haven to Hartford in time for the 3:30 vigil outside the office of Senator Joseph Lieberman. After reading aloud from a leaflet entitled, "Either Jesus is a liar, or war is never necessary," Colville and 12 of his friends gathered in a circle and held hands to gain strength for the action they believed had become necessary. They then chose four from their ranks to enter the building at One State Street. Colville was one of the four. 
"We went there with a deep sense of urgency, knowing that we had a right and an obligation to be there--knowing what we know," Colville said at his trial on November 4. He was charged with the routine first-degree criminal trespass anyone might get for kneeling in the hallway outside the Senator's private office and praying for him to stop u.s. bombings and sanctions on Iraq. Now Colville and two of the men who entered that hallway with him, Brian Kavanagh and Cal Robertson, are serving 30-day jail sentences that began on Wednesday, November 10. The fourth, Hillel Arnold, avoided jail time because it was his first offense. 
Colville's three children don't mind having their father in jail-they get to travel from place to place and stay with different people when visiting him. But for Colville and his wife, Luz, the prospect is considerably less attractive. He's been down this road before. Three years ago, on Ash Wednesday, Colville was arrested for what non-violent protesters term a "plowshares action." The name comes from Isaiah 2:4: " ... they shall beat their swords into plowshares, and their spears into pruning-hooks: nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war anymore." Taking his cue from the prophet, Colville boarded the USS Sullivans nuclear submarine in Maine, carrying a household hammer on which his children had painted the words, "Love thy enemies" and "Thou shalt not kill." Along with five other protesters he then pounded the missile hatches with his hammer and poured his own blood on the deck of the ship in a symbolic attempt to "turn a weapon of destruction into a tool for life." The protest, one of 60 or 70 performed in the u.s. since 1980, brought him a 13-month sentence from a federal court. He was released on parole three weeks short of a year. If his parole officer chooses to cite him for this latest violation, Colville will face another nine months in a federal penitentiary. 
Why would Colville, a Catholic Worker House resident who has dedicated his life to working with the poor in New Haven's Hill neighborhood, undertake an action that might separate him from his family and his community for so long? What were the issues posed such "imminent harm" that Colville felt compelled to act? Why did they target Senator Lieberman. do the demands of the "Lieberman Four" -as Arnold jokingly calls them-have to do with the rest of us? The answers, Colville tells me, are all connected to his general activism against violence and the military-industrial complex. Plowshares actions and sanctions protests, he says, are just the beginning of a larger fight for "fundamental institutional and social change" toward a peaceful society. And for Colville, who sees violence every day on the streets of his neighborhood and knows about atrocities in Iraq from Luz's many relief trips, that fight begins at home. His opponents: a "hypocritical" senator who supports war while opposing violence in television and movies; and the national defense industry--one of the biggest revenue producers in the state of Connecticut. 


MENTION THE "BIG THREE" of the Connecticut defense industry and you'll hear rousing support and the catch-phrase, "Connecticut is a winner," from nearly every congressional representative or senator in the state. Together, the state's largest defense corporations form a powerful conglomerate and a strong reason for the continued flow of federal defense contracts into the state. Electric Boat is one of only two nuclear submarine manufacturers in the country; Sikorsky Aircraft is producing the newest and most advanced wave of attack helicopters; and Pratt & Whitney, the state's largest corporate employer, is one of two u.s. companies that produce turbine jet engines capable of breaking the sound barrier. According to Frederick Downey, Lieberman's Assistant for Defense and Foreign Policy, these corporations fill crucial roles in American defense capabilities and are vital to national security. The loss of Electric Boat, for instance, would leave the u.s. with only one facility for the manufacture of nuclear submarines. 
The need to sustain these security capabilities has created in Connecticut what Mark Sullivan, Director of Communications and a second generation employee at Pratt & Whitney, terms the "Silicon Valley" effect: even if most people aren't officially employed by the defense industry, they still work for it in some capacity. While the Connecticut Department of Economic and Community Development lists only an estimated 60,000 employees in the defense sector, it lists five times as many in manufacturing as a whole. According to Sullivan, much of Connecticut's manufacturing sector relies in part on subcontracts from corporations like Pratt & Whitney, which produces less than half of the parts in the engines it assembles. Even without subcontracting, defense contracts alone can significantly boost the state's economy. Not only do federal investments bring the state around $1 billion in revenue a year, they also bring in jobs, which bring in employees, who bring in families, who bring taxable income to the state. 
The benefits of these defense contracts, however, are deceiving. Federal defense spending in the decade since the end of the Cold War has decreased by 40 percent. This decrease has prompted an industry shift from production to high-tech research and development. With the shift to research and development has come a shift in the work force, from the highly-skilled machinists Connecticut has been breeding since the middle of the 19th century to the specialized engineers its universities don't yet produce. While the dollars in defense contracts remain high, they pay for fewer of the new, more advanced products and fewer of the new, more educated workers. Over the past ten years, Pratt & Whitney's employment base has fallen by 10,000 people nationwide--8,000 in Connecticut alone. Sikorsky also has plans to cut 1,000 people from its Connecticut work force in the next year. In what seems to be an effort to soften the effects of downsizing, United Technologies-the Fortune 500 umbrella company that includes Pratt & Whitney and Sikorsky-has recently announced the consolidation of its West Palm Beach, Florida, and Connecticut Facilities. The move promises to bring new jobs to Connecticut, but-since the plan also calls for the transfer of most Florida employees-not to Connecticut residents. 
To supplement the loss of revenue from developing more sophisticated technologies, Sikorsky and Pratt & Whitney have been forced to seek out new marketplaces for the less sophisticated products they still make. In addition to developing their commercial airplane engine and helicopter lines, the two companies have begun to accrue lucrative contracts from foreign governments. Both Pratt & Whitney and Sikorsky's websites read like advertising campaigns, and the hardest sales pitches come in the descriptions of military products. The Sikorsky site labels the UH-60 Black Hawk, "America's Helicopter." Representative Jim Malone calls it "a big pick-up" for the deployment of troops and supplies. "Rock-steady performance of 20 years-and counting," the website goes on. "Black Hawk flies wherever duty calls. Desert conditions. Arctic climates. Hot and high. Carrying up to 11 troops, fully equipped." Together, the two companies sell military products to approximately 27 countries, including Argentina, Colombia, Israel, Saudi Arabia, Greece, Turkey, Korea, and China. The State Department strictly regulates such sales to foreign governments, but the recent state-approved decision to sell Black Hawks to Turkey has worried even Malone, a supporter of military sales to America's NATO allies. "There are gray cases that need to be carefully considered," he says. "We can't be blind to how Turkey, as an ally of ours, has conducted itself towards Greece, another NATO ally, and to the Kurds." The decision of the companies and the federal government to proceed with sales that are of questionable value to our national interests has little to do with either our protection from "the dangerous world in which we live" -the other catch-phrase of Connecticut congressmen-or the interests of Connecticut workers. It seems, instead, a rather poorly disguised attempt to maintain a defense industry that Colville and others would say has outlived its usefulness. 

"The government is not only unwilling, but unable to disarm. It's powerless to stop building these weapons," Colville tells me as we sit on his porch discussing his ideas about war and Connecticut's defense industry. "At best it comes to, 'How can I take apart a few token weapons and still save my ass?'" 
Colville's strident and unremitting opinions come from his long commitment to social justice and his faith in Jesus, "a non-violent God." His experiences have taught him to make connections between all acts of violence, including those he sees on the streets of New Haven, those he knows about on the streets of Baghdad, and the "weapons of mass destruction" he believes perpetuate them both. The plowshares action against the building of nuclear submarines and the stand against sanctions that, according to Colville, have killed enough Iraqis to constitute war crimes, were not two separate protests with two separate goals. "In this line of work everything's connected," he says. "It's all about [our government's] commitment to violence and war." 
9 



**Title: THE UNSTEADY MARCH The Rise and Decline of Racial Equality in America**
**Author: Philip A. Klinkner with Rogers M. Smith**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
THE 
UNSTEADY 
MARCH 
·~--· 
by Philip A. Klinkner 
with Rogers M. Smith 
Alfred Cowles Professor of Government 
Co-director, ISPS Center for the Study of 
Race, Inequality and Politics 
Published by Univeristy of Chicago Press 


**Title:  Untitled**
**Author: Jada Yuan**
**Page number(s): 11**

That's why he entered the office of 
Senator Joseph Lieberman on July 2.. For 
nearly two years, every first Friday of the 
month, Colville and others had held a vigil 
outside Lieberman's office. They had writ-
ten letters and sat in the waiti!'g room of 
his office numerous times with no 
response. By July 2., Colville and the others 
believed that the situation in Iraq had gone 
from bad to worse and that the "imminent 
harm" to Iraqis posed by continued sanc-
tions and bombings had to be stopped. 
They went to the waiting area, then tried 
the door leading to the private offices, 
which for some reason had been left 
unlocked. They then knelt down in the 
hallway just inside the door, praying, read-
ing from their leaflet, and ringing a bell 
every 12. minutes to toll the death of an 
Iraqi child. 


Colville had been hearing horror sto-
ries about conditions in Iraq ever since che 
beginning of the Gulf War, when the 
United States and the United Nations first 
imposed sanctions. The sanctions were 
geared toward deposing Saddam Hussein 
and diminishing Iraqi capacity to produce 
weapons of mass destruction, but nine 
years later, neither goal has been accom-
plished. The United States and the United 
Nations continue to deny the.lraqi people 
food, medicine, and monetary aid. Colville 
claims the sanctions have direcrly caused 
the deaths of half a million Iraq is-without 
food and medicine they cannot live and 
without monetary aid they cannot rebuild 
their bombed-out sewage, water treatment, 
and electric plants. 


Colville's 
complaints 
against 
Lieberman include specific attacks on his 
pro-defense, pro-sanction, and pro-bomb-
ing stance. Lieberman, Colville claims, has 
not only given vocal support to continued 
bombings and sanctions in Iraq, but also 
recendy signed a letter to the President call-
ing for stricter sanctions and more frequent 
bombings. Ironically, at the same time 
Lieberman has advocated war in Iraq and 
the build-up of Connecticut's defense 
industry, he has taken a public stand 
against violence in the media-<:onnecting 
movies like Scr~am with the shootings at 
Columbine High School. For Colville, 
opposition to violence in one arena cannot 
logically coexist with support for violence 
in another. One of his purposes in entering 
Lieberman's office was "to demand that 
Senator Lieberman find his conscience 
with regard to the death of children outside 
this country ... and that he acknowledge the 
hypocrisy in opposing media violence 
while supporting the real violence of sanc-
tions in Iraq." 


Back in the same Hartford courtroom 
where he had taken the stand to espouse his 
beliefs and watched the jury convict him in 
half an hour, Colville calmly refused to sign 
an agreement with the judge not to commit 
further crimes. "If we srop resisting," he 
explained to me four days earlier, "it means 
we've stopped making connections, or 
acknowledging that they exist. Iraq is the 
war du jour. When they stop the sanctions, 
we don't just fold up our signs and go 
home." 


With three of their loudest critics 
firmly 
locked 
away, 
Lieberman, 
Connecticut, and the federal government 
can breathe a collective sigh of relief. It 
postpones the inevitable--a good hard 
look at a defense industry whose value to 
national, state, and human interests has 
become increasingly difficult to defend. To 
many, Colville's views seem radical, his 
methods unlikely to effect change. But 
recenrly his warnings of doom have begun 
to penetrate the consciences of even 
Connecticut's typically pro-defense con-
gressmen. Two weeks ago, Malone, a 
defense moderate, and New Haven's 
Representative Rosa Delauro, a strong 
force behind continued defense allocations 
to Sikorsky, introduced to Congress the 
Food and Medicine for the World Act, 
which would lift u.s. unilateral sanctions 
on Iraq. For Colville, caught between the 
law of his God and the law of his land, the 
issue has become survival--one he intends 
to pursue regardless of the likelihood of 
actually 
affecting 
public 
policy. 


"Connecticut is a real dump," he told me 
wistfully before being remanded to cus-
tody. "I love living here." 


]ada Yuan, a smior in Branford Co/kg~. is on 
th~ staff ofTNJ. 

Requected 
Oonot1on $10 
($8 s1udenls/--.lors) 

The New Journal Thanks: 
Saurav Sarkar 
Christine Evans 
Quassi.m Cassaro 
Brian Leche 
W. Bjorn Hans Gus 


**Author:  [No Author Listed]**
**Page number(s): 12**

Qfla~, M.uGAaBi' Hou.otrAY HOPES TO PLAY MJ!.ov.. She wants 
tO .U. ofF rbc diny clothing she wears every day and .don the cle-
f 
$.ba of Euripides' aagic: queen. Far ftom the stoop in front of 
:wbimey Sucer Willoughby's whete she begs for money, she will 
out the impassioned I8F of a woman driven insane by jealousy. 
that clay is &r ofE And oddly, it is &rthcr off roday than it wu 
d-9-,an ..,, when HoUoway was a fOrmidable talent in the Yak 
School of. Drama. 


Koown by 11101t Yale students as .. the homdess black woman 
Who rec::ius Sh•kapea'l'e," HoUoway's life srory unfolds like a «<ek 
~ 
in which the heroine's flaw is not pride or indecision. hue 
lmeocal ~ 
Her story is 10 intriguing. in &a, that a fixmer 
tf111Da1C o( hers &om BeaniJ1aton College in Vermont spent two 
~this sun;uner makins a doc:umentary about her life. 


J;loUoway paduated from Bennington in 197o4 with a 
:lachcller'a ~ 
in acting. She subsequently came to dte Yale 
&:hoot Of Diama as a member of the acting class. But her time at 
..... llrama School was short. About a month into her 6nt leiJlCS-, 
-. HoUoway auditioned for a production of fellow #Udca:t 
Christopher Durans's play Detlth ComG to Us AJJ. M119 Ap4 She 
was cast as a hypersexual maid who was sleeping with iocatuoul 
Olia boys. •r couldn't handle the casting. • Holloway saicL •1 wu 
:pt because they cast me as a maid, and because [during rchcanals] 
WM CWO boys had !heir hands aU over me, aU over my breascs aad up 
lny dotbcs.. 


She complained in vain ro administrators in the Drama School 
libout the c:asting. which she thought was un&ir and racially bi.ucd. 
ill tried to be profeaional, because the Drama School is a profcs.. 
place. But I really didn't want to play this pan. • sbe said. 


a few ~ 
Holloway had had enough. Sbc locked ha--
w mom in Helen Hadley Hall and rdUsed to co.me ~ 
Cw 
. :.-. .JrbouP • kacw that miaing so many~ 
'WQUid 
.d ....... , 
&om the School Wlaen she ......... 
~. 
...._.,J:.-111* met wi• Dea labert Bmvstein, wbb aa:epced "- l,tter qf 
...... 
):I ... -
apelling her. 

ThE ND JouRNAL 



**Holloway's Theater of Hunger**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Holloway's story continues in a strange and fantastic web of racism, violence and stalking. a story that is undoubtedly influenced both by her dramatic flair and her mental illness. According to Holloway, she was diagnosed with a mental illness called "tactile demoiselle," which is about hallucination in all five senses. She constantly feels herself being physically abused and, when I interviewed her, she had to stop in the middle of the sentence so she could inspect her orange juice, convinced things swimming in her food.. Holloway has been on the streets of New Haven for the last 19 years, perfecting Shakespeare, Chaucer and Euripides. She makes her home in a crawlspace that she rents for $2 a day, money supplied by a multitude of devoted fans. In the few minutes I had to wait to interview Holloway, "Auntie Woman" came by, as she does every Wednesday after work, to give her five dollars. Another regular visitor brings her some juice, and some papers, and some cow and a few dollars. 

Perhaps Holloway's most important relationship, though, is Yale graduate Anne Dailey, who told her brother, Richard, about the Bennington graduate who was doing theater on the streets of New Haven. Richard came up to start his own research in July, he decided to find funding for a documentary film about her life and her fight against what he calls "limitless illness," he said. 

Holloway's version of Dailey's decision to make the film is far more romantic and, according to Dailey, shows some degree of exaggeration. According to Holloway, she was eating Christmas dinner on the Champs Elysées in Paris, when overhead some women called out, "a brilliant Bennington graduate doing theater on the streets of Paris." she said. "He went over to them and asked them to add him more, I knew it had to be me. I'll see you soon," and looked for me until we met to start the movie in August." 

Richard said his version of the story is somewhat different, but added, "Frankly, I wouldn't bet on it. Don't let your imagination get too wild in presenting Shakespeare, do you care about fact in that sense? The imagination's audacious, anyway." 

For two weeks in August, Dailey followed Holloway around New Haven with a hand-held camera. He is currently editing the film in Paris. "I am now trying to shape that material into something that tells Margaret's story and is worthy of her performance," he said. "I am attempting with the material I have to express Margaret's being, story; and what it is about her I feel resonates on a larger truth that touches us all, that is to say the power of the imagination faced with an often hostile reality. Margaret has something to teach us all, and I find it humbling and inspiring in equal measure." 

Ideally, Dailey would like to release the film coincidentally with the power of sufficient prose to supply Holloway with "a decent room in a safe place with a private shower and three squares a day, a place where someone would make sure she took her meds but where she would also retain some of her freedom," he said. 

Holloway, on the other hand, is less optimistic. "Hopefully the movie is going to be a great success, and I'm sure I'll make some money off of it," she said. "And that's fine, because I never wanted a career like Whoopi Goldberg or Meryl Streep. But I also never wanted to suffer like this. Religious people tell me that Jesus' suffering was greater than anyone's and that suffering is a virtue. But I just don't understand why God would do this to me or to anyone else." 

Holloway never predicted that she would be making her living off theater in the way that she does now. But her Yale master's thesis eerily foreshadows how intertwined her life and the theater would eventually become. Holloway wrote about the necessity of a "theater of hunger," a vision of a theater in which the needs of human beings--"ranging from basic needs for food and shelter" ... [to the] need for freedom of the mind, body and spirit"--could be satiated. 

While stage actors play out intensely personal but clearly fictional crises in very public spaces, Holloway lives out her own. Ironically, in doing so, she comes closer to her ideal of a "theater of hunger" than she ever could on stage.


**Hamden Plaza Advertisements**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 16**

**College Guidance in New Haven**
**Author: Ann~ Williams**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
'rd like to go to a small school, perhaps an Ivy League College; said Kendria Vereen (right). 
but he added that only students who push 
for attention receive sufficient gu.idance. 
Not all New Haven students feel their 
schools provide them with inadequate 
guidance. Kendria Vereen, a junior at High 
School in the Community (Hstc), speaks 
confidently about her college plans. ''I'd 
like to go to a small school, perhaps an Ivy 
League college," she informed me. "I need 
one-on-one attention, I don't want to be 
just another face to a professor in a huge 
class." Kendria described the extensive help 
her school's guidance office provides. Every 
Monday, students break up ro meet with a 
faculty advisor in small groups. In addi-
tion, lists of college trips and SAT dates are 
regularly posted outside of the gu.idance 
department. Kendria finds her classes--all 
college preparatory-exciting and chal-
lenging. She becomes particularly animated 
when discussing her Shakespeare acting 
course, in which she has performed scenes 
from Henry V. 
Haml~t, 
Macb~th, and 
Rom~o and juli~t. to name a few. "I just love 
Hamkt," she declared. 

But it seems HSIC is an exception, not 
the rule. A small magnet school with 350 
students and two guidance counselors, it 
sends about 90 percent of its students ro 
college-88 percent to four-year colleges 
and two percent to two-year schools. In 
contrast, between 70 and So percent of all 
students in the New Haven public school 
system continue their education after grad-
uation: 45 to 50 percent ar four-year schools 
and 25 to 30 percent ar two-year or voca-
tional schools. The discrepancy is not due 
to a difference in natural ability. HSIC stu-
dents are selected through a lottery system, 
not by achievement. 

Perhaps part of the secret co HSIC's suc-
cess is the amount of attention and gu.id-
ance that it gives its students. "High School 
in the Community is a college preparatory 
program," Perer Clark, the guidance coun-
selor in charge of all of the school's juniors 
and seniors, explained. "It's the norm here 
tO calk about college for your four years." 
HSIC nor only complies with Beaver's pro-
jected four-year college plan, it surpasses it. 
Each student takes two school-organized 
overnight college trips, one junior year and 
one senior year. Twenty-five ro 30 college 
representatives visit the school ro talk to 
students during the first two months of 
their senior year. 

Clark also claimed that he tries his best 
to involve parents in the college process. 
Each year, he told me, he holds conferences 
with juniors and seniors and their parents 
to discuss their goals for the year. But 
KencL:ia's mother, Cheryl Brown, informed 
me that she has never met with Clark to 
discuss KencL:ia's education. "I have gotten 
one call to tell me that she is Ivy League 
material, but that was from a teacher, not a 
facilitator." Brown, who also has a daughter 
who is a senior at HSIC, said she has met 
with Clark and her older daughter ro dis-
cuss her credit and to narrow her college 
choices to ten. Although Brown is satisfied 
with Kendria's classes and finds the f.acilira-
tors "very cooperative," she thinks they 
should be in touch with parents more 
often. 

But compared ro parents of children 
in other schools, Brown is lucky to have 
received even one phone call. Maribel 
Morales' voice took an angry tone when 
asked how often she hears about Miguel's 
progress at Wtlbur Cross. "The guidance 
department has never contacted me and 
they haven't had college sessions for par-
ents," she said. "I hate how tbe system runs 
in that school. There's only o~e phone line, 
and it's always busy, and when I do get 
through, there's just a secretary with an 
attitude." 

While many may not be able to turn 
to their parents or their schools for help, 
the majority of the students I talked with 
will probably make it to college. Their 
guidance comes from the LEAP program. 
Lalena Garcia, a 1998 Yale graduate who 
heads LEAP's Junior Counselor Resource 
and Advisory program, said it is her job to 
help the program's young employees 
through the college selection and applica-
tion process. "Ninety percent of my Junior 
Counselors definitely want to go to college, 
but don't really know how to get there," she 
observed. "Some schools don't begin to talk 
to students about colleges until they're 
juniors, and many high school SAT classes 
are limited to seniors." 

Garcia provides these students with 
the attention that their schools' guidance 
departments cannot, or do not, provide. 
She keeps a library of information on col-
leges for them, and writes to request appli-
cations. She runs workshops on how to fill 
out a financial aid form and how to write 
an application essay. She bugs them about 
deadlines and makes sure they take their 
SATs. But LEAP cannot employ all of the 
city's students. 

New Haven is capable of improving 
resources for potentially college-bound stu-
dents. The city's total expenditures per stu-
dent amount to S9,013, compared to a state 
average of s8,530. Yet New Haven spends 
only S579 of that sum on pupil support ser-
vices, in comparison to the S703 the aver-
age state school system spends. New Haven 
must attend better to its students' guidance 
and reach out to their parents if the ciry 
expects its ltids to go to college. 
..:J 
Ann~ Williams is a puudonym. 
Sydnry uavms is a sophomor~ in Calhoun 
Co/kg~. 
NOVEMBER 19, 1999 



THE "ORIGINAL" COPY CENTER 
Copying 
Binding 
Printing 
Color Copying 
large Documents 
large Format Color 
laminating 
Mounting 
Faxing 
Passport Photos 
262 Elm Street, New Haven 
(203) 562-9723 
www.tycocopy.com 
Resumes 
Rubber Stamps 
Business Cards 
FAX: (203) 562-6256 
Phone: 1-888-TYCO COPY 
Email: tycocopy@snet.net 
Open 7 Days a Week


Catering, Take-Out and Free Delivery Available 
Fri., Sat., & Sun. 20-Course All-you-can-eat Buffet 
12-3PM only $6.95 
10% discount for Yale students on any dinner 
140 Howe Street · Phone (203) 787-9493 • www.yawanna.com/Restaurants/royalshtml 
17


**The Rise of the Anti-Sweatshop Movement**
**Author: Sydney Havens**
**Page number(s): 18**

S 
cenes from the coming revolution: #I. On September 23, 
1999, loyal viewers of Live With Regis and Kathie Lee were 
treated to a spectacle more dramatic than the usual coffee-
klatSch banrer. According to The New l'Ork Daily News "during an 
impassioned IS-minute monologue" Kathie Lee Gifford "cast herself 
as a lone celebrity voice against swearshops and demanded that 
labor advocates stop picking on her. 'I get so fed up with these 
vicious personal attacks against my integrity and my character,' she 
says." Among Gifford's named vicious attackers? United Students 
Against Swearshops, an organization which counts Yale junior 
Jessica Champagne among irs leaders. 

Scene #2. On a Tuesday night in October, about JOO studentS 
gathered in the Law School Auditorium. A six-foot-tall man with a 
paunch and steel-gray hair slicked back into a ponytail stepped up 
to the podium: it was Charles Kernaghan, the man who, with his 
National Labor Committee, had forever tarnished the name of 
Gifford's Wal-Mart clothing line in 1996 with his sweatShop expose. 
He reeled off faces about the minimum wage in El Salvador, which 
a Princeton study has found meets only 28 percent of the cost of liv-
ing there; and where workers are paid two-tenths of one percent of 
the retail price of a Yale T-shirr. Kernaghan was there not just to 
preach to the converted, but to praise them; he called USAS "the 
strongest human and labor righrs movement in the country today." 

This could be dismissed as a typical lobbyist's hyperbolic sound 
bite. Yet the sudden emergence of the sweatshop issue into both 
Yale's and the nation's conscience does demand explanation. There 
has been a radical shift in the nature and purpose of student 
activism all over the country since the iconic days of the I960s, and 
the rate of the movement has accelerated in just the last few years. 
The anti-sweatshop movement, with irs national media attention, 
small-scale actions and successes, exemplifies this trend. 

DISPARAGE R.EEBOK, read the T-shirrs in 1995. The University of 
Wisconsin at Madison had just signed a contract with Reebok for 
athletic apparel, which stipulated that no one connected with the 
university would be allowed to "disparage" the company-by ques-
tioning irs manufacturing conditions, for example. The first anti-
sweatShop rallies on college campuses began at Wisconsin. Socially 
concerned student leaders had found not just an issue to rally


**Title: Trying to change the world one college at a time-to Kathie lee's chagrin.**
**Author: Anya Kammetz**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
around, but a strategy: make your school put your money where 
your mouth is. "Basically, we were trying co use universities eco-
nomically through their licensing fees, to change the dynamic of the 
industry," says Eric Brakken, a University of Wisconsin graduate 
and founder of the anti-sw~hop movement, who now works full 
rime for USAS. 


The classical model of student activism in America has been 
sos, the Weathermen, the takeover of Columbia: large numbers of 
students using dramatic tactics to lobby their government directly 
for widespread political and social transformation. But that picture 
has changed, at least since the anti-apartheid movement in the '8os, 
when a shantytown went up on Beinecke Plaza, not to influence the 
government but to convince Yale to divest from South Africa. "We 
have our roots in the apartheid struggles of the early '8os, the last 
spurt of this kind of activism," says Champagne. "We're using uni-
versities co make a statement and getting them to act as moral 
agentS. The only time they actuaJly act is when students make their 
voices heard." 


The student voice that has caught the ear of universities in the 
last few years has spoken in remarkably measured tones. The 
imagery of sweatshop repression and abuse is stirring, but the plat-
form is technical and legalistic, not revolutionary. Two of USAS's 
three key demands are regulatory: public disclosure of factory loca-
tions and monitoring of working conditions by independent 
human and labor-rights organizations. They seek no more than 
enforcement of existing anti-sweatshop provisions and countries' 
own labor laws. No one is trying to shut down faccories, mount 
boycotts, or foment a worker's coup. 


On these limited terms, and with relatively small percentages 
of students involved, the m~vement has met with success ar many 
colleges. Last spring, sir-ins at Georgetown and Duke led the uni-
versities ro promise ro withdraw from a proposed code of conduct 
for apparel manufacture unless it is changed to include disclosure of 
factory locations. The University of Wisconsin at Madison, after a 
97-hour student sir-in, secured a promise for full public disclosure, 
living wages, and reproductive rights for the mostly female swear-
shop workers. Brown and the University of Michigan have agreed 
to disclosure, independent monitoring, and the living wage. 


At Yale, both the tactics and the successes have been more 
modest. Last spring, 1,400 students signed a petition calling for 
independent monitoring, full disclosure, and the living wage. There 
was one action, a "knit-in," with about 30 students attending. Bur 
no results were seen until the week of October 19, when Yale 
Students Against Sweatshops (vSAs) brought Kernaghan and two 
Salvadoran sweatshop workers ro speak and sraged a rally. That 
week the President's Office announced for the first time that they 
would require full disclosure of aJI factory locations where Yale 
apparel is made. Bur rhis decision will bear no fruit for over a year, 
until current licensing agreements are up for renewal. By then, 
many of the organization's current leaders wiU have graduated. 


Why weren't there sir-ins here last spring? "The movement 
wasn't there yet," says Champagne. "The activistS at Yale rend ro be 
really over-analytical. It can be harder to move forward here because 
We have to wait until we've sat down and really thought everything 
through." Senior Saurav Sarkar, another organizer, says, "This issue 
is really a lor of minutiae and legalisms, and in order to organize 
people around that, first you have ro convince them that if they 
NovEMBER 19, 1999 
thought about it they would care about this." A lot of convincing is 
necessary on a topic like sweatshops, which involves complicated 
questions of international economics and is far removed from most 
students' daily experience. This contrasts, for example, with the 
large srudent movemenr in support of Local 34 and 35 strikers four 
years ago. 


Meanwhile, university adminisrracors, industry representatives, 
and even the federal government, either accuse sweatshop activists 
of irresponsibly oversimplifYing the issue or maintain that there is 
no issue. Ann Gust, a Gap executive, was at a master's rea in 
Calhoun last month with her boyfriend, Oakland Mayor Jerry 
Brown, and Champagne asked her why they wouldn't disclose fac-
tory locations. She responded that no one had ever asked them to. 


In July 1998, Jean Sperling, the top economic advisor to President 
Clinton, met with leaders ofusAS ro ask them co stop protesting. In 
order ro address growing concerns, the Fair Labor Association (PLA) 
was formed as a coalition of religious, labor and corporate groups. 
"They wanted co bring us into the process and make us feel good 
about what was going on," Brakken says. Bur the students refused, 
and most of the independent groups had withdrawn support from 
the PLA by November 1998, citing a weak, corporate-enforced code 
of conduct with no living wage or disclosure. Champagne calls it "a 
dummy organization." The FLA then turned to university adminis-
trations. "In February and March of 1999 the srudenr movement 
was starting to pick up and the FLA went behind our backs to ask 
universities to sign on," Brakken says. "This is the biggest rhrear to 
a genuine anti-sweatshop movement." 


As an alternative to the FLA, usAS has helped develop the 
Worker's Rights Consortium (wRc), a group aimed at organizing 
workers to improve the conditions in their own factories. The WRC 
relies on independent monitoring. "This is an alternate system for 
verifYing what's going on, involving workers themselves in the 
process. It's basically a lire-alarm system, a way to respond to worker 
complaints," says Champagne. 


Few would disagree with the need for independent inspection 
of factories to prevent egregious abuses, such as 12-15 hour work-
days, forced overcime, no clean drinking water, no bathroom 
breaks, intimidation and beatings by the factory managers. USAS's 
third demand, that companies pay a living wage rather than the 
country's minimum wage, is much more comroversial. Eva, one of 
the two Salvadoran factory workers who spoke at Yale in October, 
said through an interpreter in her speech, "We make these shirts for 
you with pleasure and we hope that you enjoy wearing them. We 
greatly need these jobs and we don't want to lose them. We just 
want to be treated with decency." Many argue that forcing compa-
nies to pay higher than the lowest wage the market will bear will 
simply cause them to move production elsewhere. Last February 
Th~ Yak Daily N~ws quoted Princeton economist Elizabeth Bogan: 
"I am concerned that if you put a high level of exactness [into the 
living wage code], the multinationals will write these countries 
19 

--- Page 20 ---

J 
0 
H N 
• 
zack 
and many other 
fine designers 
**Title: Sub·Contract Killers,**
**Author: Alexander Dworkowitz**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Sub·Contract Killers,
Branford students will be reunited with their college next year. 
Will union workers return to their jobs? 
by Alexander Dworkowitz 
FoR THE PAST FEW WEEKS, a group of 20 Branford students has met 
to discuss the future of the renovated Branford College. The group's 
goal is clear: to do everything it can to insure that members of Yale's 
custodial union, Local 35, return to maintain the renovated college 
next fall instead of allowing subcontracted employees of the Fusco 
Corporation to work there. According to member Adam Gordon, 
the Branford students opposes Fusco's work on four grounds: 
wages, working conditions, benefirs and the right to collective bar-
gaining. 

Most of these studenrs are stuck with the alternative this year. 
The Fusco Corporation, a nation-wide development company, 
finished construction of Swing Space in 1998, and now continues co 
maintain it. 

Swing Space is not Fusco's first job on campus. According to 
Joe Mullinix, Yale's Vice-President for Finance and Administration, 
Fusco worked on the renovation of Yale Field, the construction of 
the Harris building at the medical school, and the annex to Payne 
Whitney Gymnasium. Currendy, Fusco maintains both Swing 
Space and the renovated Linsley-Chittenden. Fusco is also being 
considered for other contracrs, including the renovation ofTimothy 
Dwight College. 

Members of the Yale administration say they have been happy 
not only with the quality of Fusco's work but also with its commit-
ment to New Haven. Kernel Dawkins, Vice-President of Facilities, 
said in a January issue of the Yak Daily News, "The Fusco 
Corporation is a highly regarded New Haven-based firm. Yale likes 
to do business with firms that have conuibuted to the New Haven 
community." 

Dawkins, however, expressed his confidence in Fusco before 
questions of wrongdoing emerged this July. In a series of press con-
ferences, Jim Newton, mayoral candidate and critic of Fusco's sroo-
million contract to build the Long Wharf Mall, divulged details 
about Fusco's history. In 1987, the city lent Fusco s6.9 million for a 
consuuction project. By 1995, Fusco completed the project but had 
yet to begin loan paymentS. Due to a fault in the original contract, 
however, the ciry had little means to make Fusco pay. The city bar-
gained. Fusco paid back $3.5 million of the loan on the spot and 
kept the remaining $3.4 million of raxpayer money. Four years and 
one mall contract later, Newton alleges that Fusco returned a frac-
tion of the money to DeStefano in the form of a $4,500 campaign 
conuibution. 

Newcon also revealed that Long Wharf is not Fusco's first mall 
project. After years of managing a Florida mall, competition drove 
out tenants. However, Fusco could not close the unprofitable mall 
because Peter Barak, a dentist, refused to move out. In response, 
Fusco severely cut back on its spending, neglecting upkeep and, 
according tO Barak, violating his lease. He sued Fusco, and the case 
is still in court. 

"These people play hardball," says Barak. "They basically dis-
honored everything in the lease. They are very shrewd businessmen, 
and there is a fine line between being shrewd and being unethical." 

These emerging facts, however, have not affected Yale's rela-
tionship with Fusco. "If you only dealt with contractors who never 
had any financial problems, you'd be severely limiting yourself," says 
Mullinix. Mullinix affirmed that once the facts of Fusco's history 
became public, no one in his department suggested rethinking 
Yale's relationship wirh Fusco. "No one came to me and said, 'Gee, 
these people are morally deficienr.' There is no evidence of any kind 
of wrongdoing. I think the Fuscos are very honorable, and I uust 
them." 

Although he would not disclose the names of the companies, 
Dawkins says that Yale has in the past ended contracts with partic-
ular firms because they did not meet Yale's standards. Says Dawkins, 
"We always reserve the right to suspend contracts, and we often do 
that. I believe that we have very high standards." 

Dawkins says these standards focus on performance, meaning 
both the quality of work provided and the state of the companies' 
finances. He does admit, though, that there are criteria for hiring 
companies that extend beyond performance. "If a company was 
found to have a continued background of fraudulence, we would 
review their contract." 

The group of Branford students, though, is not concerned with 
Fusco's history. Instead, they are protesting the subcontracting of 
jobs that have belonged to Yale's Local 35 for decades. "The main 
problem," says Laurie Kennington, one of the founders of the 
group. "is that these are not Yale jobs." 

The stOry of Local 35 dates back to 1993, when Richard Levin 
became pres idem and Dawkins a part of his administration. Levin 
and the n~v administration decided to investigate ways to improve 
the university's infrastrucurure. Thus, the deferred maintenance 
policy came to an end, and renovation of campus buildings and the


**Title:  Untitle**
**Page number(s): 23**

confrontation between Yale and Local 35 began. Yale wanted to 
change the dining halls radically, so when Local 35's contract expired 
in 1996, they announced a plan to subcontract some dining halls to 
national chains such as Pizza Hut. Threatened with the loss of jobs, 
Local 35 went on strike. 

Later that year, the two sidefreached a deal. Local 35 essential-
ly agreed to a two-tiered wage system. Instead of paying all workers 
$12 per hour, Yale would pay a starting salary of $8.50, with increas-
es in pay of 50 cents every 6 months. The situation was the same for 
custodial workers, only their pay would start at $10 per hour. In 
exchange for the drop in wages, Yale also promised to build a food 
court that would create more jobs for union workers. Yale agreed 
that it would allow subcontracting only if doing so did not require 
firing union workers. Three years later, the food court has not been 
built, Fusco may take over the maintenance of the renovated col-
leges, and a new dispute looms over what wili happen when the cur-
rent contract ends in 2002. 

"We should have never believed them," says Meg Riccio, Chief 
Steward of Local 35, referring to the promise of a food court. "Yale 
has proven that with all the labor struggles they find it difficult to 
support a union on campus." 

Behind the question of subcontracting is the issue of wages. 
New Haven mandates that all full-time government employees be 
paid a living wage of at least $7.50 per hour, and Yale has agreed to 
follow this policy. The contract between Yale and Fusco stipulates 
that all Fusco employees, as well as subcontracted employees, be 
paid this living wage. 

According tO Dawkins, Fusco says irs subcontracted employees 
earn a starting wage between $8 and $8.25 per hour. Some of these 
employees work as much as 6o hours a week. For every hour of 
overtime (hours over 40 per week), Local 35 workers receive a pay 
1.5 times as much as their standard salary. 

Thus, a 6o-hour workweek for a Local 35 
worker results in a wage of $700. Without 
such a policy, the subcontracted worker 
would earn $495· Over the course of a 
year, such a difference could result 
in as much as a $IO,ooo differ-
ence in salaries. In addition, 
subcontracted 
workers 
receive different benefitS 
than Local 35 employees. 

It is the difference 
in 
salary 
that 
Kennington, Gordon, 
and Riccio see as the 
heart of the problem. Says 
Riccio, "What the union is 
doing is simply trying to 
make people earn a decent 
wage in New ·Haven." 

By definition, subcontracted 
workers are not Fusco employees. 
Fusco hires separate companies to per-
form the maintenance, while the company 
NOVEMBER 19, 1999 
runs the management. According to Dawkins, the workers in Swing 
Space actually work for three companies besides Fusco: custodians 
work for OneSource, a second company is in charge of landscaping; 
and a third company maintains heating, air conditioning and 
plumbing. 

Dawkins does not know the name of two of the three subcon-
tracted companies that work at Swing Space, and this is no coinci-
dence; Yale administratOrs only work with Fusco and have no con-
tact with the companies that it subcontractS. Riccio claims that 
some of these employees are actually part of separate unions, but 
since Yale has no contact with these unions, so their wage policies 
are unknown. Thus, while Fusco itself passes Yale's performance 
standard, Yale has put its faith in Fusco that the subcontractors also 
meet Yale's wage standard. 

"The honest thing," says Gordon, "is that no one knows what 
the wages are." 

Riccio takes a more aggressive stance. "It seems that people are 
put into buildings who cannot speak English and no one can com-
municate with," she says. "What's Fusco afraid of?" 

But Yale administrators do not have the same doubtS about 
wages, and they insist that wages and finance are not the main issue. 
In its contract, Fusco agreed to have irs employees work longer 
hours in order to be available to studentS. Says Mullinix, "We are 
looking not so much at a dollar savings but a different package of 
services, particularly at Linsley-Chittenden. At the end of the day, 
I'm not sure we are saving money." 

For Dawkins, the matter has changed little since 1996. While 
Yale could not subcontract the dirung halls to chains such as Pizza 
Hut, the university has managed to subcontract custodial work to 
Fusco. And just as Yale saw Pizza Hut as an improvement in food 
quality, they now see Fusco, its longer hours and irs newer vacuum 
cleaners as an improvement in maintenance. "Subcontracting is just 
a small part of the attempt to improve services all over campus," 
says Dawkins. "I think Local 35 is a good workforce. But times have 
changed." 

IIIJ 
Alexander Dworkowitz is a junior in Branford Co/kg~.


**Author:  Unlisted**
**Page number(s): 24**

I
n Fairfield Counry, at the western end of Connecticut, a mos-
quito flies into a crap. Inside chis rypical Cukx pipims, a species 
common to most urban and suburban American environments, 
lives a very uncommon virus. The microscopic ball of nuclc:otides 
and proteins inside the mosquito waits for its host to seek another 
meal. Then the virus can enter another hose, then another, silently 
spreading across the state. 

An hour drive up the coast, in New Haven, a group of brick 
buildings sits on a hill. Inside these ordinary buildings, common to 
academic communities like New Haven, scientistS prepare to ana-
lyze the latest batch of mosquitoes. When the specimens agive from 
across the state, investigators grind them and colleCt the resulting 
serum. They place the samples in cultures of monkey cells and incu-
bate them. After a few days, the cultures will be te,Sted. Standard 
procedure at the Connecticut Agricultural Experirpent Station is to 
rest for six different viruses. Recent developments in nearby New 
York Ciry, though, call for a change from standard procedure. 

W 
ord of New York Ciry's encephalitis outbreak reached Dr. 
James Hadler on Labor Day weekend. Hadler, the 
Connecticut Department of Public Health's chief epidemiologist, 
received a phone caJI informing him that doctors in New York had 
attributed the outbreak to St. Louis Encephalitis, a rare condition 
caused by a mosquito-borne virus. He contacted Dr. Matthew 
Carner, coordinator of Connecticut's Epidemiology Program, and 
Or. John Anderson, Director of the Connecticut Agricultural 
Experiment Station. Connecticut already had an extensive program 
for mosquito control in place, but the mosquito traps were mostly 
in southeastern Connecticut-the usual site for outbreaks of 
Eastern Equine Encephalitis, the disease that prompted the original 
creation of the Mosquito Management Program. In order to assess 
the spread of the St. Louis virus, more traps would be needed in 
Fairfield Counry, near the border with New York. On Sunday, one 
day after the phone conversation, Anderson himself placed the extra 
mosquito traps. Within a week, Connecticut officials would know 
if the disease had followed the path of countless commuters and 
crossed into Connecticut. 

As researchers at the Experiment Station attempted to isolate 
the virus, others did the same at the u.s. Centers for Disease 
Control (coc) and the Universiry of California at Irvine, solicited 
1
by New York officials to assist in the investigation. The same week, 
an both New York and Connecticut, unusual numbers of crows 
were found dead. Birds often serve as a host for the St. Louis virus 
because they are a common blood-supply for mosquitoes; but in the 
past they had only hosted the virus, not shown symptoms. 

Scientists studying the disease thought a connection between the 
human cases and the bird deaths was probable, and that connection 
had ominous implications: either the St. Louis virus had mutated co 
a more virulent form or the outbreak had been caused by another 
virus. A few days after the encephalitis outbreak became national 
news, the coc made an announcement that helped explain the 
unusual avian deaths. 

Before the coc 's announcement, the Mosquito Management! 
Program, led by Connecticut chief medical entomologist Or. 
Theodore Andreadis, isolated strains of the virus in its New Haven 
faciliry. While the various labs involved in the project cooperated, 
Connecticut's Experiment Station received ·little credit in national 
coverage of the outbreak, despite being involved, according ro 
Andreadis, in each step of the investigation. "I believe we had the 
first isolation of the virus," says Andreadis. The Agricultural



**Connecticut Controlled West Nile**
**Author: Michael Gerber**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Connecticut 
control'led 
We s t Nile 
s cientists have 
of 
an outbreak 
Encephalitis- for now. 
Experiment Station scientists had isolated the vuus, but the bird 
deaths still had them doubting whether the pathogen they had iso-
lated was the Sr. Louis strain. The coc confirmed their suspicions: 
the outbreak was not St. Louis fever, but a similar viral infection 
called West Nile fever--a virus with no previous documented 
appearance in the Western Hemisphere. 

U 
pon the announcement that a virus from Africa-bringing 
horrific images of Ebola to the puolic mind-had appeared 
on American soil, questions immediately arose: How dangerous is 
it? Are our kids safe outside? Should we let them go to school? 
Hc:aJth departments' aavisorics to avoid mosquilOes contradicted 
reassurances from expens that the virus would not affect most of 
the population. Town officials in southwestern Connecticut met 
with scientists, who convinced them that the outbreak would nor 
be severe. These same scientists, however, faced a problem which 
they would rather have p~ented but nevertheless find exhilarating 
to fight. "It' an exotic virus and it's here," Andreadis explains. "For 
a scientist, it's very intriguing and very exciting." 

Andreadis knows Connecticut's disca.sc-causing insects as well 
as anyone. Since 1978, he has srudied the state's six-legged residents 
at the Connecticut Agricultural Experiment Station. Now, he serves 
as head of the Soil and Water department, srudying the control of 
mosquitoes and mosquito-borne diseases. He works on the second 
floor of the Slate Building, the newest of the five buildings that 
make up the Station's headquarters on Huntington Street in north-
ern New Haven. 

T he oldest building is the Osborne Library. built in 1882 when 
the Experiment Station opened at its current site. Now, tucked 
behind a building So years its junior, Osborne serves as a reminder 
of the Station's humble beginnings. Just inside the front door sits a 
display describing some of the research that occurs on site. 

Educational posters fill the laboralOry hallways. One of these 
posters, describing the Asian Cerarnbycid beetle that has recently 
appeared in the u.s., sits outside the office of Dr. Louis Magnarelli, 
vice-director of the experimental station. As Magnarelli proudly 
points out, the displays are just one example of the Station's goal to 
work with and educate the citizens of Connecticut. 

"We're not an ivory tower here," Magnarclli says in die ento-
mology library next to his office. The library holds some books that 
curators would gladly welcome at the Beinccke Rare Book Library. 
Magnarclli opens up one textbook, finding the date. Ir turns out co 
be from 1945, and he puts it back. "That one's not that old." He 
finaJiy finds another, from 1877. Then, hidden on the bottom shelf,
NOVEMBER 19, 1999 
a book nor quite as old catches the eye of the 54-year-old scientist. 
He opens up the book, his voice revealing his excitement at finding 
the reports of WE. Britton, the first man to hold rhe position of 
chief state entomologist-the position Magnarelli now holds. These 
98-year-old records shar rhe room with samples of various insects, 
impaled on pins and displayed in drawers on the far wall. 

In the dusty libr:try. the research being conducted down the 
hall is easily forgotten. !"he educational displays, small brick build-
ings and garden plot obscure the significant discoveries being 
made-like the discovery of vitamin A by Station scientists in 1913 
or the development of h} brid corn in 1922. The small garden, locat-
ed next to the parking lot, might be part of the next major advance-
ment to sprout from the Research Station. And now, researchers at 
the Station join those from rhe coc, University of Connecticut, 
Yale and elsewhere to search for answers in one of the most 
significant events in recent epidemiological and infectious disease 
history. 

W 
hile Epidemiologins understand that they cannot prevent 
every epidemic or vaccinate for every disease. "Are we sur-
prised this happened? No,' says Dr. Carner, a 15-year veteran of 
Connecticut's Public Health Department. "Arc we surprised that it's 
West Nile fever? Yes. ' !"he significance of the appearance of the 
West Nile virus in th1s liemisphere overshadows the effect of the dis-
ease itself. The virus can only be held responsible for six deaths, all 
in New York-nor quire an epidemic. In Connecticut, the 
Oeparunenr of Public llealth is not aware of any infections in 
humans. Bur that doe~ not rule our the possibility that the virus 
may have infiltrated rhe human population. AJI six of the victims 
who died from West Nile Encephalitis were over the age of 65. In 
most healthy human hosts, the virus only causes mild Au-like symp-
toms-nor something chat sends most sufferers to the doctor's 
office. But if West Nile can spread this quickly-the virus was 
found in birds from Madison, Conn., to New Jersey and Long 
Island-then other. more virulent parasites can as well. Viruses 
from Ebola to Dengue fever spring to mind, as well as less exotic 
tropical diseases, like malaria (once a common problem in 
Connecticut). Malaria, like West Nile fever, is an arbovirus: a virus 
transmitted by mosquitoes. To prevent arboviruses from spreading 
in Connecticut, the Department of Public Health, the Department 
of Environmental Protection and the Agricultural Experiment 
Station work together co analyze and confront mosquito-borne ill-
ne~es. 


**Title: The**
**Author: Daniel Brook**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
ON NOVEMBER 23, 1969, 1,500 DEMONSTRATORS GATHERED 
in front of the u.s. embassy in London. News of a massacre 
of South Viemamese civilians by American troops had just 
surfaced, and young people took to the streets. The protestors salut-
ed embassy officials with the Nazi "Sieg Heil!" and burned an 
American flag while chanting "u.s. murderers!" The crowd then 
proceeded to the British Prime Minister's residence at 10 Downing 
Street, chanting "Lenin! Stalin! Mao Tse-tung!" as they marched. 
Most of the demonstrators were British, but there were a few 
Americans among the crowd. One of them was Yale's current pres-
ident, Richard C. Levin. Another was an acquaintance of Levin's 
and an organizer of the protest· named Bill Clinton. Clinton was at 
Oxford on a Rhodes Scholarship; Levin, a runner-up for the 
Rhodes, was there as well, having received an English-Speaking 
Union fellowship. 

Thiery years later, both men--:>nce such outspoken critics of 
the establishment-are at its helm. Clinton runs the country he 
once protested against; Levin leads one of its foremost educational 
institutions. Looking back today, Levin is sorry that his own ambi-
tion manifested itself much later than Clinton's: "His clear focus on 
elective politics as a future and his clear sense of direction at a time 
when so many of us were just testing out ideas of what we were 
going to do with our lives was really impressive." While Levin cer-
tainly developed into a man of ambition, he was still "just testing 
out ideas" when he arrived at Yale in the fall of 1970 as a graduate 
student in economics. 

The ideas Levin was testing out were radical ones which had 
been strictly off limits to precocious minds like his until the Civil 
Rights and Free Speech movements of the early 196os began to chal-
lenge America's hard-line Cold War consensus. Levin's graduate 
class was the most radical in the history of the economics depart-
ment. In the. words of classmate Ed Wolff, now a professor at NYU, 
"The Yale economics department ... admitted a large number of rad-
ical students in the fall of 1970. Whether that was done on purpose 
or not is another issue. [In either case] it was just a blip, a one-rime 
CVC:nt. The following year's class was much more traditional." Joel 
Mokyr, a mirthful Israeli who was described to me as "the right-
winger" of Levin's class, quipped, "anyone of sane mind would have 
been to the right of that class." 

While the class's saniry was debatable, all agree that Levin's 
mind was one of its sharpest. He was "one of the leading lights of 
[our] class," said Jack Wells, now a Democratic staffer on Capitol 
Hill. Richard Murnane, who now teaches at Harvard, remembers 
him as "a real smart guy that was open to a wide range of ideas. [He] 
knew a lot about history [and] had a penchant for theory." Levin 
apparently made a similar impression on his professors. He was 
selected as a T.A. for a section of the economic history course in only 
his second year, an honor unheard of at the time. 

But in the early 1970s, the issues attracting student attention 
were outside the classroom, or more correctly, peripheral to it. "At 
a meeting of the new class, someone said 'whoever's interested in 
URPE come upstain,' and when we got upstairs, there were a lot of 
us," recalls classmate Laurie Nisonoff. The Union of Radical 
Political Economists, or URPE (pronounced "ER-pee"), was an orga-
nization ofleftist economics professors and graduate students. URPE 
saw itself as an alternative to the economics profession's mainstream 
professional organization, the American Economic Association. 

URPE's academic aim was to expose students to the radical alterna-
tives to the neo-classical economics they were being taught. The 
Yale graduate students' URPE chapter sponsored radical speakers and 
study groups, like one on Marx's Capital. "Richard Levin was actu-
ally a member of these [study] groups," Wolff remembers. "I 
thought he really knew his Marxism," recalls Marianne Hill, anoth-
er member of his class. 

But being knowledgeable about Marx and being a Marxist are 
two different things. Levin had studied the history of economic 
thought at Stanford and Oxford and narurally had spent time on 
Marx. While Mokyr referred to him as "a self-proclaimed Marxist" 
and a fellow member of the Marxist study group remembers him as 
"an eloquent and trenchant critic of capitalism," Wells disagreed. 
"His acciviry was not so much an indication of political commit-
ment as of intellectual curiosity. He was open to new ideas." Levin 
himself said, "[I was) less of a critic than an eclectic"-a man' who 
studied many theories, but had no strong ideological attachments 
to any of them. 

Regardless of his true beliefs, Levin's apparent openness to all 
sides aided him in his rise to the top. Levin's 6rst taste of power 
came when he was chosen by his economics classmates to represent 


**Title: The Yale Collection of Musical Instruments**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Photos and Captions

Whence grace

The Yale Musical Instrument collection lies hidden behind the unassuming facade of its own building on Hillhouse Avenue, in the shadow of University Health Services. It is one of the most revered and distinguished collections of musical instruments in the world.

Currently in a climate-controlled environment with top security, the collection was not always treated so carefully. Begun primarily with keyboard instruments, its first home was the dome of Woolsey Hall, which left the rare and valuable instruments vulnerable to an uncontrolled environment.

Morris Steinert, who later co-founded the New Haven Symphony Orchestra, made the first major donation to the collection in 1900. After his initial gift, donations came gradually until 1959, when a donation of a large part of Yale Schlemmer's extensive collection put Yale on the map of notable musical instrument collections. It was Schlemmer's donation that convinced the Yale administration to move the instruments from the hazards of Woolsey into their own home on Hillhouse.


Through the years, Belle Schlemmer acquired an impeccable taste for the quality and rarity of instruments she collected. Schlemmer acquired a large portion of her instruments from France, which was a feat in itself because of strict exportation rules. The French museums always reserved the right to buy instruments back before they were shipped out of France. Since, however, Schlemmer donated generously to small French cities that had been all but destroyed during World War I, she received special treatment from the French government. This privilege would eventually help make Yale the owner of one of the world's most important and well-balanced collections of musical instruments.


The instruments are exquisite and ornate, many inlaid with mother of pearl, ivory, tortoise shell, or delicately carved parchment. One harpsichord, made by the world-famous Pascal Taskin, was being used as an ironing board when it was discovered. The collection also includes such rarities as a working-stick violin. Another valuable holding, an instrument named the "third world," is one of several instruments traditionally considered "beggars' instruments" because of their visual attraction and accessibility. Other instruments in the collection are rumored to have once belonged to Mozart and Handel. Yet another valuable piece of the keyboard collection supposedly came from Marie Antoinette's royal court, because it displays the tiny symbol of two red pierced hearts, a symbol only she was allowed to use.


Although these connections to famous figures are speculative, the instruments do not need fame to assert their greatness. Their existence is just as humble as the building they live in; much of the Yale community remains completely unaware of this quiet claim to fame. The instruments' presence as musical and visual works of art, however, is quietly but fully felt.




No text was provided to transcribe from pages 34, 35, and 36.  Therefore, no output can be generated.


**100 years after Borges's birth, do we remember facts or Ficciones?**
**Author: John Swansburg**
**Page number(s): 38-39**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"Within each man there are many 
men or, perhaps, two men." 
- Borges, speaking at Yale, April 7• 1971 

HAD NOT JORGE LUIS BORGES DIED IN 1986, Argentine author Jorge Luis Borges 
would have been 100 years old this year. In honor of the cen-
tennial of his birth, Mexican writer Carlos Fuentes gave a lecture in 
October at New York City's 92nd Street Y entitled "Jorge Luis 
Borges at 100." At Yale University, Borges is being remembered 
throughout the fall semester by a lecture series, "Borges at Yale." 
Both the Fuentes lecture and the Yale series remember Borges just 
as one might expect them to, celebrating his literary achievements. 
But less than thirty years ago, Borges was not so universally 
acclaimed. He visited both New Haven and New York in 1971. 
While Yale honored him then as it does now, his reception days earlier 
at New York's Columbia University was hostile. The crowd that 
came to hear Borges speak at Yale came to honor a famous author. 
Certainly many in attendance at Columbia came to do the same, 
but others came with a different agenda entirely: to attack him for 
being a conservative, for not being active in politics-in short, for 
not sharing their own political views. 

The student body of Columbia was volatile in the early 1970s, 
and we might easily dismiss the protesters had Borges not criticized 
himself on the same grounds: 
I was always very nearsighted and wore glasses, and I was rather frail. 
Almost of my people had been soldiers--even my father's brother had 
been a naval officer-and I knew I never would be. I felt ashamed, 
quite early, to be a bookish kind of person and not a man of action. 
Throughout my boyhood, I thought that to be loved would have 
amounted to an injustice. I did not feel I deserved any particular love. 

Borges feared that love was an emotion reserved for men of action, 
for men who took part in the affairs of the world rather than hiding 
in the worlds of fictions. Anticipating his critics at Columbia, 
he questioned his dedication to scholarship in lieu of action. 
Surely no one today would have encouraged Borges to read or 
write less: love of the author and his erudite fictions is what brings 
audiences to memorial lectures in 1999. So what happened to his 
attackers? What happened to the people who saw him as a man who 
succeeded in changing Latin American literature, but who failed in 
changing Latin American politics? 

An unlikely clue lies in the September 27, 1999, Yale Bulletin, 
in the headline announcing the Borges lecture series: "Fall Lecture 
Series commemorates Brazilian writer Jorge Luis Borges." Getting 
Borges's home country (and thereby his native tongue) wrong is a 
gaffe, but perhaps a significant one. What is remembered now is 
more his art than his nationality. It is as if Borges had in fact been 
two men, one a scholarly man and the other a scholarly writer. 
Indeed, in one of his most famous-and famously brief-stories, 
"Borges and I," he himself acknowledges the duality of his exis-
tence, identifying the two people within him: Borges the man and 
Borges the author. The person remembered in 1999, as the celebra-
tions in New York and New Haven suggest, is Borges the author, 
not Borges the man. But when and how did one disappear into the 
other? 

IN 1971, BORGES TRAVELLED TO COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY to receive 
an honorary doctorate and to take part in a conference entitled 
"Society and the Arts in Latin America." Almost instantly, he ignited 
the anger of his audience by using the inflammatory word "con-
servative." "Truly great artists," The Village Voice reported Borges as 
saying, "have concerned themselves with the past-
Homer, for 
instance, sang of a war that took place long before his lifetime." In 
that sense, Borges said, he could be called a "conservative." 

Nicanor Parra, a Chilean poet in attendance, was appalled at 
the use of that taboo word and began an attack on Borges that was 
to last for the remainder of the day: 
I was deeply disturbed to hear ... Borges say that he is a conserva-
tive ... the very word is an obscenity. As a poet and lover of words, I 
have been waiting all morning to hear the most beautiful word in the 
hemisphere ... The word is 'revolution.' 

Parra's attack was not just a quibble with Borges's use of the 
word "conservative"-to him it was ridiculous that Borges was 
more concerned with the Trojan War than current political issues. 
Borges, however, was unfazed by Parra's opening salvo, dismissing 
his impassioned words with the remark, "Forgive me; I know noth-
ing of all that." But for Parra and those of the same mind, it was 
precisely the truth of this dismissal that angered them. Preparing 
Village Voice reporter Anna Mayo to interview Borges during his visit to 
New York, Norman di Giovanni, Borges's personal assistant and 
translator, requested that she refrain from asking questions about 
politics: "It is really better if you keep off politics. Borges is totally 
apolitical. He hasn't read a newspaper in years. He didn't even read 
them when he could see." To prove his point, di Giovanni cited an 
incident that occurred at a reading Borges gave at Harvard. A student 
asked him what he thought about "the war." Borges did not 
know which war the student was talking about. When he was told 
that the student referred to the Vietnam War, he responded that 
since it was American and approved by the President, it was most 
likely just and honorable. The business of explaining his unpopular 
stance then fell to di Giovanni: "For Borges this country still has 
mythic proportions, it's still the land of Emerson and Walt 
Whitman. [It is] impossible to explain to him that that America no 
longer exists. The best I've been able to do is to convince him that 
he doesn't know anything about politics." 


Parra clearly agreed, and he was not alone. A Cuban man con-
tinued Parra's line of attack, but with none of the Chilean poet's rev-
erence, demanding of Borges: "Why is it that you are never 
seized to write about the masses? Why don't you write 
about us? Eh, Borges? Why not us?" Borges 
responded: "And why, why on earth should I 
write about you?" The Cuban retorted, 
"Because we exist!" Borges was not impressed 
with the Cuban's reasoning: "But my dear 
fellow, is that your only argument? Consider 
Shakespeare and Rudyard Kipling. They too 
exist! And I think and write on them." 

This answer did not sit well with the 
protestors in the Columbia crowd: Borges's 
comment only served to affirm their belief 
that he was a conservative. That he cited 
two English authors, one of whom had 
written so favorably about colonization, 
surely did not escape their notice. The 
result was a melee, with angry protesters 
heckling Borges. Emir Monegal, a biographer 
of Borges who was present at the Columbia 
conference, recalls a student so enraged with 
him that he insulted the author's mother. Borges, 
who lived with his mother until her death, stood 
up, his cane shaking in his hand, and challenged the 
young man to a duel. Di Giovanni fought through the 
crowd in an attempt to protect Borges while Columbia 
faculty members attempted to put an end to the event. It 
was Borges, though, who closed the proceedings. Before he would 
allow the crowd to disperse for lunch, he demanded to respond to 
his attackers: 

I believe in revolution, and I am waiting for it to come. In the revolu-
tion there will be no political leaders. There will be no propaganda and 
there will be no banners [rags]. When they tell of some new revolu-
tion I always ask 'and do they have a rag?' and when they say 'yes,' I 
know it is not my revolution. 

The echo of the day's unrest continued to ring, but his words had 
silenced the crowd. Borges, it seemed, was more complex than his 
opponents had thought. 

JORGE LUIS BORGES WAS BORN in Buenos Aires in 1899. When 
writing about himself, Borges indulges in his family mytholo-
gy, recounting stories of his ancestors' European lineage and their 
contributions to the military history of Argentina. Before Borges or 
even his parents appear in his "Autobiographical Essay," Colonel 
Borges, the writer's grandfather, rides toward the enemy, where he 
is killed by two Remington bullets. Only after placing this event in 
its historical context-"This was the first time Remington rifles 
were used in the Argentine"-does Borges turn to the business of 
writing about himself. 

His pride in his family, particularly in their European ancestry, 
did not always serve him well. The first battlefield was his elemen-
tary school. The school he attended was called the Thames School, 
named for an Argentine general, not the English river. Nevertheless, 
Borges's father sent his son to school in the traditional uniform of 
English schoolboys, earning the already erudite Borges no points 
with his less sophisticated classmates: "As I wore spectacles and 
dressed in an Eton collar and tie, I was jeered at and bullied by most 
of my schoolmates, who were amateur hooligans." Borges was 
attacked for his apparent conservatism and his bookishness 
the moment he entered public life. 

But he was not always apolitical and conservative. 
In 1937, his father, whose eyesight had failed him years 
before, began to have heart trouble. Borges got a job--
at age 38, his first full-time employment-at a library. 
While Borges was descending the stairs to the 
library's basement to read the likes of Bernard Shaw 
and Gibbon, Juan Domingo Perón was rising to the 
top of the Argentine government. Notoriously 
ruthless, Perón's regime murdered its 
opponents in its efforts to gain and 
maintain power, the death toll periodi-
cally growing as new mass graves of 
Perón's victims are discovered. 

Though he was holed up working 
and reading in the library, Borges was any-
thing but silent about Perón's rise to power. By 
the 1930s, Borges had already established himself 
as an important writer in Argentina, publishing 
regularly in several publications. Borges used his sec-
tion in the periodical EL Hogar to criticize Nazis in 
Europe and their sympathizers in Argentina. In his 
invectives against the Argentine regime, Borges sounds 
less like a poet and more like a political pundit. 

Perón took power in Argentina in February of 1946 and 
by August of that year he had also taken notice of Borges's public 
criticisms. In August, Borges was officially informed that he had 
been promoted from his position at the library to the inspectorship 
of poultry and rabbits in the market on Córdoba Street. He imme-
diately resigned from his new position. Perón's "promotion" of 
Borges was perhaps even more humiliating than Borges lets on. 
Monegal notes that, "To promote one of the leading Argentine 
intellectuals to inspector of chickens and rabbits implied a linguis-
tic pun. Chickens and rabbits are in Spanish ... synonymous with 
cowardice." In Borges's estimation, Perón did not understand the 
power of language. Borges, however, did; in making a public state-
ment after his resignation, his words were as potent as Perón's word-
play was snide: 

Dictatorships foment oppression, dictatorships foment subservience, 
dictatorships foment cruelty; even more abominable is the fact that 
they foment stupidity [with their] buttons which babble slogans, 
images of leaders ... To fight against those sad monotonies is one of the 
many duties of writers. 

During the Perón years, Borges performed this duty-to a cer-
tain degree. His denunciation of Perón proves, as his final speech at 
Columbia intimated, that he was not always apolitical; it does not, 
however, indicate a commitment to political action. Borges hated 
Perón, at least in part, because he incorrectly considered him not 
merely a fascist, but a Nazi as well. Borges blamed the Nazis for 
destroying the German culture that had produced one of his heroes, 
philosopher Arthur Schopenhauer. But he would later accept a prize 
from Pinochet's Chile, a regime as fond of making enemies disap-
pear as was Perón's. Borges's detractors at Columbia were certainly 

**Title: The Yale Years**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
oven.ealous in their attacks on Borges, but 
their criticisms were not completely off the 
mark. 


N 1961, BoRGES, along with Samuel 
Beckett, was awarded the Formentor 
Prize, earning him worldwide recognition. 
This recognition allowed him to tour the 
United States in the early 1970s, the trip 
funded by the literary awards he received 
along the way. His visit ro Columbia was 
such a trip. It was there that Monegal, then 
the chair of Yale's Spanish and Portuguese 
department, asked Borges to speak at Yale. 
On the day of the visit, a small invita-
tion was offered to the Yale community in 
the Yak Daily Nnus, in a paragraph easily 
obscured by the thumb used to hold the 
paper open to page three. The message 
read, "Jorge Luis Borges will participate in 
a panel discussion in Room 102, Linsley-
Chiuenden Hall tonight at 7:30." Above 
the notice regarding Borges's visit, a similar 
notification, 
three 
times 
as 
long, 
announced a lecture entitled "Choosing 
Teachers for Inner City Schools," to be 
delivered by Chester Preyar, an administra-
tor for the Cincinnati Public School 
System. 

More publicity was not necessary. 
Room 102 had approximately 200 sears. 
When Borges arrived with his host 
Monegal, 500 people had already managed 
to fit into the lecrure hall. There was no 
room for Borges. Monegal was surprised 
but unfazed: "We decided to search for a 
larger room. Headed by Borges, a proces-
sion formed slowly and traversed the Yale 
campus." The image Monegal conjures of 
the blind Borges leading a vast group of fol-
lowers across Yale is infused with the same 
sort of magic that moves Borges's fictions. 
A Yale University Police Officer, however, 
didn't see the magic of the roving crowd. 
Roberto Gonz.alez Echevarda, current head 
of Yale's Spanish department, remembers 
the officer stopping them and demanding 
to know what the demonstration was 
against. Given the events at Columbia only 
weeks before, the question was mordantly 
ironic: the crowd was not demonstrating-
it was venerating a literary hero. As 
Monegal recalls, "We were so obviously 
men of peace that the police let us contin-
ue our search." 

The search was successful: Strathcona 
Hall, one of the largest on campus, was 
free. The evening with Borges was no less 
successful, as Monegal fondly recalls: 
Borges began by answering. with the 
subtlest irony, questions put forth by 
writers and critics. That won them 
completely. He is one of us, they fdt. 
When the Aoor was opened to ques· 
tions, people rushed to ask him about 
everything that passed through their 
minds. Borges answered with humor 
and simplicity, never talking down to 
them, always comic and gentle. 

Borges's experience at Yale could not 
have been more different from his experi-
ence at Columbia. Monegal had feared 
otherwise, and was both overjoyed and 
relieved: "Borges could not see his listeners, 
but he sensed that a rapport existed 
between him and them; and because he 
knew it. .. he was serene while all of us, who 
could see, were afraid. He trusted his audi-
ence, and it in turn loved him." Echevarria 
states unequivocally, "He was celebrated." 


JGHTEE.N NlNBTY-NINE, as they say in 
the wine business, was a good year. 
Novelist Vladimir Nabokov was born in 
1899, as was poet Hart Crane. Borges, too, 
was born on the cusp of the century, a cen-
tury whose literature he, Nabokov and 
Crane would immeasurably change. 

Borges was a precocious reader, begin-
ning his life of letters at age four. His father 
was an intellectual, an avid reader and an 
Anglophile. Borges inherited his father's 
love of reading and in particular of English 
literature just as he had inherited what 
would eventually keep him from it, his 
blindness. His father's vast library fed 
Borges's intellect. Borges once wrote, "If I 
were asked to name the chief event of roy 
life, I should say my father's library." 

Given his eventual contributions to 
Larin American literature, it is strange to 
peruse the names of the authors Borges 
read as a child, the authors who would per-
manently shape him as a writer. An early 
poetic love was not Lope de Vega but rather 
Edgar Allen Poe; the first novel he ever read 
was nor Don Qui.xou but Hucltkbnry Finn. 
The young Borges did indeed read 
Cervantes, but in English translation and 
this early reading experience was burned 
into the labyrinthine coils of his mind. He 
once wrote, "When I later read Don 
Qui:Jwu in the original, it sounded like a 
bad translation to me." Raised on a diet of 
G.K. Chesterton, H.G. Wells, and 
Jonathan Edwards, Borges never really 
developed a taste for Spanish: "As an 
Argentine writer," he once said, "I have to 
cope with Spanish and so am only too 
aware of its shortcomings." 

The reader of his prose, however, is 
never aware of these shortcomings. Borges 
never wrote a novel-he never wanted to. 
He was a master of the short story. Calling 
American attention to the Argentine 
author in an article entitled "The Author as 
Librarian," John Updike writes of Borges's 
prose: "His driest paragraph is somehow 
compelling. His fables are wrirten from a 
lvight of intelligence less rare in philoso-
phy and physics than in fiction ... For all his 
modesty of tone, he proposes some sort of 
essential revision in literature itself." 

Protestors at Columbia in 1971 disdained 
Borges because he did not use the word 
"revolution." What they didn't see is that 
rhe way in which Borges manipulates 
words is revolutionary. 

Perhaps they didn't see it because a 
Borges story is just as likely to take place in 
a labyrinth as it is in Argentina, just as like-
ly to inhabit an imaginary library as 
Buenos Aires. Even Updike, writing in 
1965, noted the exclusivity of Borges's 
fictions: "His ideas border on delusions; 
the dark hints ... that he so studiously devel-
ops are special to the corrupt light of 
libraries and might vanish, one fears, our-
doors." Delivering his lecture at the 92nd 
Street Y in October, Carlos Fuentes, how-
ever, proposed a new way of interpreting 
Borges's dark hints: "By giving a leading 
role to the mirror and the labyrinth, the 
book and the garden, time and space, 
[Borges) redefined what is real through lit-
erary and imaginary traditions." In this 
way, he argued, Borges liberated his work 
from the European tradition. Fuentes, who 
was himself influenced by Borges's work, 
has also wimessed the effects of Borges's 
fiction on Latin American literature. 

Fuentes argues that Borges's literature was 
the first writing that seemed to be cruly 
Latin American. Rather than reconstruct-
ing a vanished past, Borges's fictions are all-
inclusive, and demonstrate a literary imag-
ination that is open to all cultures. At the 
same rime these fictions are consummately 
Latin American, and in 
particular, 
Argentine, representing a culture that is the 
synthesis of both disparate European and 
native elements. 

THE NEW JouRNAL 


**Title: Borges and I**
**Page number(s): 41**

N "BoRGES AND I," BoRGES THE. MAN, 
the man anacked'at Columbia in 1971, 
struggles with Borges the author, the 
author celebrated at Yale just weeks later: 
Ir is Borges, the other one, tha,s things 
happen to ... Ir would be an e&ggera-
tion to say that our relationship is hos-
tile--! live, I allow m}'Klf to live, so 
that Borges can spin out his literature, 
and that literarure is my justification. I 
willingly admit that he has written some 
sound pages, but those pages will not 
save m~. 

A century after the man was born, as 
Borges predicted, only the author still 
exists: the memory of the sometime conser-
vative, apolitical Borges is almost extin-
guished-it is Borges the author we cele-
brate. 

But perhaps Borges the author did 
more for Borges the man than he is willing 
to admit. During his life Borges created 
fictions that earned him the love of a world 
of readers. In one of his essays, Borges 
offers an all but parenthetical comment 
that might be the pinnacle of a lesser 
writer's 
o~uvr~. remarking nonchalantly 
that "to fall in love is to create a religion 
that has a fallible god." Borges the man was 
f.ill.ible, and his politics were not always 
admirable, but today it has cost him few 
adherents to the religion ofloving his work. 
His art rose above politics, the world of 
banderas and empty symbols. His fictions 
helped to bring worldwide attention to the 
literature of Argentina and all of Latin 
America and, more importantly, helped to 
shape those literatures. 

As a child, Borges did not believe that 
he deserved the love of his family-he was 
a thinker, not a man of action. Bur perhaps 
in the act of writing, Borges ultimately 
found love. At least that is one way of read-
ing his response to the last question asked 
of him at Yale in 1971, a question perhaps at 
once the most simple and the most com-
plex of the evening. "Have you ever been in 
love?" a student asked. Borges's one-word 
response: 
"Yes." 

fohn Swansburg, a smior in Saybrook 
is associate ~ditor of TN). 
NOVEMBER 19, 1999 

**Title: A Night with the Street Sweepers**
**Author: Andrew Young**
**Page number(s): 43**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
We pull out into the open. The engine whines, rising and 
falling with acceleration, and the flashing hazard lights lend our 
project a certain urgency. Underneath it all the curb brooms brush 
the street with a calming skksssh. As we watch, a second driver 
swings his machine out of the garage, barreling 6ackwards. 

Domingo drives through the city at five miles per hour, always 
leaning sideways intently, to make sure the curb brooms on the 
right side are in alignment. He is completely in his element and 
directs the machine expertly. He is so intent on his job that he has 
difficulty driving and talking at the same time, and pauses the 
sweeper often to talk to me. 

We run red lights. Domingo explains that at five miles per 
hour, nobody can afford to wait for the lights to change. But deep 
inside we both know that nobody's going to mess with an ugly 
metal machine the size of a garbage truck with big flashing lights. 
We can go where we please. 

At two in the morning, we pass through the Hill neighbor-
hood. Domingo is quieter now, and I look out the windows. It feels 
like the middle of a war zone as we pass by the dilapidated husks of 
houses, gray in the dark. Only a few teenagers are our at this hour. 
Domingo ignores alJ this, running the sweeper over piles of 
leaves, spilled liquids, plastic bags, styrofoam cups, vodka bottles 
and roued vegetables. Where we've gone, there remain only three 
neat tracks of water on the scrubbed asphalt. Crisply directing the 
steering wheel, Domingo cleans out the Hill while nobody is look-
ing. Either because of Domingo's competent driving, or because I 
always associate sleep with the machine's noises, I slowly nod off. 

I'm awakened at 2:20 by the radio squawking. It's time for 
Domingo to unload his basket of trash. He stops the machine and 
waits. Minutes later, a dump truck rounds the corner and barrels 
past us, screeching on the brakes and parking sideways in the street. 

After Domingo unloads his trash, I hitch a ride with Larry 
Williams in the dump truck. A friendly black man, he had seemed 
quieter sitting in the office. But he has another side: for a second 
now he is chatty. The first few hours for the dump truck operator 
are pretty boring until the sweepers start to fill up, and he's been 
cooped up watching television. 

The bench is low-slung and comfortable, and Larry directs our 
course with ease, obviously taking pleasure in pushing his laboring 
vehicle as if it were a regular car. He talks a little bit, relaxed, and 
we listen ro the radio. He seems almost like a father figure to the 
night crew. Perhaps it is because he is the sole common thread in an 
otherwise lonely job, bringing the distanced street sweepers togeth-
when he meets them. 

We go down the streets of New Haven, and things become 
familiar as we pass through Yale's campus. We are going to 
up with another street sweeper, my second ride of the night. 

Outside Ingalls Rink, a street sweeper waits on the corner with 
garbage basket already raised in the air. Larry pulls in neatly 
its side, and opens the door to watch. Herbie Ancrum, the 
operator, pulls forward and dumps the load softly into the 
of the dump truck-a sweet smell permeates the cab. Herbie 
shakes the arms of the machine to loosen the clinging debris, and 
gives the dump truck a couple love taps for good measure. 

Herbie has a different style of driving than Domingo. He leans 
casually over one arm as he directs the curb broom, wiggling the 
wheel left and right with his other arm. The Yale streets are rela-
tively clean, mostly leaves, a whole different feeling than the Hill 
neighborhood. Herbie drives up Science Hill, removing the grit 
from the curbs. "You know these buildings?" he asks me, in a 
friendly way that makes it easy to say yes. 

At 3 AM the machine needs water, and Herbie stops. We break 
open a fire hydrant outside of the Divinity School. It's nice to stop 
and be outside; it's comparatively quiet and there's a good breeze. 
We talk. Herbie is the first person I've met tonight who is more 
interested in just chatting with another human being than explain-
ing the mechanics of his job to an outsider. 

Herbie works for the Community Action Agency part-time 
and drives meals to the elderly. He reUs me about his six-year-old 
daughter. I tell him about maybe wanting to teach, and we half-joke 
about me teaching her some day at Yale. Talking to Herbie, I gain a 
new perspective. I think to myself that while Domingo drives the 
street sweeper because the job fits him weU, Herbie drives the 
machine in resignation to the reality of providing for a family. 

When the machine is done drinking, Herbie starts up again 
and we go through Science Park. All the lights are on and, unlike 
the HiiJ, it feels like everyone is out at a party and we're just going 
through cleaning house. We pass the quiet ranks of Albertus 
Magnus and swing back towards campus. 

When Herbie's crash basket is full again-a bit faster than I had 
hoped-he calJs Larry in the dump truck to empty his basket out. 
It's time for me to head back. Larry gives me a ride to Public Works. 

A friend once said to me that people need something new to 
distinguish one day from the next. And it is clear from this night 
that street sweeping is, in essence, a duU and thankless Labor. So I 
am tempted to conclude that there is nothing truly interesting 
about these people and their after-hours work. 

But I end the evening sitting in the dump truck in the middle 
of the parking lot at Public Works, charting over the radio. They are 
suddenly sentimental, these sweepers, cleaning the city at night 
when nobody is around to see. I finally realize, perhaps roo late, that 
what is interesting about this night is not the novelty of the street 
sweeping machines, but rather encounter with the men who oper-
ate them. 

I say good-bye to Domingo and wish him the best. Lynwood 
comes on the radio to crack a couple jokes. Next to me, Larry leans 
against the far window of the cab, and casually directs me in prop-
er radio protocol. Herbie jokes again about me teaching his daugh-
ter one day at Yale, and we both silently think that that would be 
nice. 

~ 
Andrnq Youn, a smwr in Calhoun Co/kg~. is th~ photo ~ditor of TNJ.


**Title: Hartman's Greatest Hits**
**Author: Simon Hanft**
**Page number(s): 44-45**

I 
Hartman's Greatest Crits 
A Yale Professor Takes an Introspective journey Through a Lifts WOrk. 
by Simon Hanft 
A Critic's Journey: uterary Reflections, 19158-1998 
Geoffrey Hartman (Yale University Press, 1999), pp. 2.97 
A C"rifics 
Ceoffrev H 
lou,,..., Z " 
art ..... 
G 
£0FFREY HARTMAN CHAMPIONS com-
plexity in literature. He finds literary 
criticism no less artiStiC than fiction. h 
should come as no surprise, then, to find 
that deciphering Hartman's critical writ-
ings is at times as difficult a task as parsing 
a great poem. Indeed, understanding 
Hartman's works is a kinetic process that 
grows and modifies itself at every step; 
Hartman challenges us to color our obscure 
sense with the brilliance of a critical sub-
lime. Once imbued with the possibility of 
such a pure form of literary truth, any self-
aware reader cannot rest but must instead 
continue to seek out its implications, 
wrestling with knotty insights for their sub-
tle meanings. This is quite a tall order for 
any reader, particularly today. So be it. 

Hartman's criticism is so thoroughly 
informed and erudite that he is not for the 
faint of literary hearc. But for those who 
possess the ambition, Hartman's recently 
published collection of essays, A Critic's 
journey: Liurary &foctions, 1958-I998, pro-
vides a worthy and rewarding portal for 
readers engaging him for the first time, and 
for devotees who have faithfully followed 
his critical output over the years. 

My fust handshake with Hartman's 
work was 
with 
his seminal study, 
Wordsworth's Po~try q87-18I4, a book that 
has permanently changed a generation's 
attitude towards the poet. The tonic 
insights and re-engineered readings of 
stock Wordsworthian tropes, such as his 
famous "spots of time" and the complex 
dialectic between imagination and nature, 
have become the stuff of the new 
Wordsworth critical canon. Wholly con-
vinced by this study, I was naturally drawn 
to his other critical efforts. 

Hartman's 
new 
collection 
affords the opportunity to 
catch up with the master 
through his own selection of 
pivotal essays 
from 
his 
career. 

H artman divides the book into three 
sections: 
"Theory," 
"Cases," 
and 
"Speculations." These follow Hartman's 
reflections on his days as both srudent and 
teacher, a circling back which he calls 
"Polemical Memoir." It is in this "autobio-
graphical self-reflection" that Hartman 
describes his arrival as a Yale graduate stu-
dent in the fall of 1949 after receiving his 
undergraduate 
degree 
Queens 
College in New York. For those who are 
interested in an affectionate, first-hand rec-
ollection of Yale's great literary tradition, 
Hartman's description of studying with 
Erich Auerbach and Rene Wellek proves 
indispensable, and his revealing discussion 
of the influence of these scholars on the 
development of his own critical ethos is 
helpful in locating his intellectual origins. 

Adopting the literary humanism of 
Auerbach, which taught Hartman the value 
of being "probative without preacherly, and 
expansive without ever losing sight of the 
text," and idolizing the mind-boggling 
scholarship ofWellek, Hartman joined the 
Yale teaching faculty in 1955 with an eye 
towards going beyond formalism. Though 
pigeonholed as a deconstructionist due to 
his affiliation with the Yale English depart-
ment in its formative critical years, 
Hartman takes pains to align himself accu-
rately both with respect to his colleagues 
and to the rapidly evolving schools of criti-
........ 9~8-1998 
cism that flour-
ished in his years as 
a Yale professor. "I 
could 
see 
as a 
doctrine ... or 
more 
than a way of expand-
ing the range and depth 
of reading," Hartman remarks, a comment 
which recalls the Auerbachian expansion he 
so valued in his mentor. For Hartman, lit-
erary hermeneutics should never be an 
exercise that thrusts a final evaluation on a 
text; the critic, and by extension the reader, 
must accept the two-fold nature of mean-
ing, deriving satisfaction from the ambigu-
ities in a text. Concurring with Paul de 
Man, one of his colleagues at Yale, 
Hartman writes, "The encounter between 
text and commentary produces difference, 
not closure or a false equilibrium." He is, in 
short, far from one of Harold Bloom's 
"resentniks," who read literature solely 
through a political lens. 

Though Hartman devotes much of his 
introductory piece to clarifying his own 
critical approach, I could not help but be 
swept up by his claims for the role and 
responsibility of criticism in toto: "Literary 
commentary should have its own standing: 
it was not servile but took its place within 
literature, rather than remaining on the 
outside looking in." Such a posture, echo-
ing Matthew Arnold, is later reinforced by 
Hartman's assertion that critics must be 
able to remove the blindness preventing the 
visual epiphany that must accompany tex-
rual appreciation. This piercing-through 
"revives" a "sense of the power of naming." 
and the critic is thus cast as an Adaro 
The NEW JouRNAL 
figure, who ultimately creates the impor-
tance of literature via his "gift of words." 

In the "Theory" section of the book, 
the essay "Understanding Criticism" elabo-
rates the theses of "Polemical Memoir" and 
offers the multiple pleasures ofHartman's 
critical scalpel at work. Here, he continues 
to support his earlier position, and in fact 
aggrandizes criticism to the point where 
"formal critical commentary is not very dif-
ferent from fiction itself." They share a 
"hermeneutic perplexity," and the urge to 
arrive at a meaning, whether in itself (as in 
the case of fiction) or in another work (as in 
the case of commentary). This is a contro-
versial point, and I suspect that Hartman is 
making it as an argument builder rather 
than as something for which he would fall 
on his sword. Even the most soaring criti-
cism is, at best, a reactive genre that lacks 
the 
imaginative 
fuel 
of 
fiction. 
Nonetheless, Hartman's criticism is of the 
highest contemplative merit. His analysis 
of Yeats's "Leda and the Swan" dazzles 
through its demonstration of how the 
rhetorical skill of the poet leads even the 
critic into an uncertain frame of reference, 
perplexed as to how to interpret the poem's 
central image. But it is this very perplexity, 
or "bewildermenr" as Hartman calls it ear-
lier in the piece, that lies at the crux of the 
critical task; the critic must resist any "irri-
table reaching after fact and reason," as 
Keats put it, and thus subside in the 
unrnasterable complexities of the text. Any 
attempt to impose a definite answer 
through which the critic can approximate a 
deeper understanding would end the inter-
pretive enterprise. Hartman possesses a 
critical generosity; the central formulation 
of the essay states, "contemporary criticism 
aims at a hermeneutics of indeterminancy. 
It proposes a type of analysis that has 
renounced the ambition to master or 
demystify its subject." 

In "The Philomela Project," Hartman 
cogently argues for the role criticism plays 
in shaping literary output, where "art does 
not have its axis of influence only in itself. 
a certain type of reading may have con-
tributed to its formation, and certain habits 
of interpretation facilitate its reception." If 
this ragged and often bloody partnership is 
indeed the case, it follows that criticism 
must be aware of its expansive role and thus 
prepare to restore a "voice to inarticulate 
people," those underrepresented individu-
NOVEMBER 19, 1999 
als in cultural history. Why is Hartman so 
intent on giving a voice to "the anony-
mous," particularly when such a project is 
quite visionary and utopian in nature? 
Because out of this mission can emerge a 
criticism that is truer to irs intellectual, his-
torical, and cultural roots. Hartman seeks a 
"reconstruction of the literary-critical 
field," and believes that this restoration can 
best be served by a chorus, if not a cacoph-
ony. "Literature grows from traditions 
rather than tradition, as the ballad collec-
tors knew; and insofar as it helps honor 
such sources, literary criticism is restitu-
tive," concludes Hartman. Rather than 
multiculturalism, Hartman argues for 
multi-criticalism, a plurality of traditions 
rather than a single one. In such a way, lit-
erary criticism can re-envision the text 
through a more multi-prismatic hermeneu-
tical lens. If there is no single answer, as 
Hartman deeply believes, then the more 
voices the better. Indeed, the thrill of 
watching. hearing, and participating in the 
intellectual collisions of these voices is a 
large part of the debt we owe to literature 
itself. 

The "Cases" section of the collection 
offers just what it suggests: examples of 
specific textual circumstances that are scru-
tinized by Hartman's critical eye. "Milton's 
Counterplot," written in 1970, and 
"Wordsworth's Touching Compulsion," 
composed in 1987, are rwo of Hartman's 
well known and precisely keen analyses. In 
these essays, we begin to get a feel for what 
Hartman values in literature, as opposed to 
wading through the strange seas of thought 
that characterize his theoretical musings. 
"Milton's Counterplot" takes up a difficult 
question: How does Milton effectively bal-
ance man's free will with God's foreknowl-
edge? Hartman values Milton's "ghostlier 
demarcations," as Wallace Stevens wrote, 
and thus resists undoing the textual knot of 
ambivalence. We are left, however, with 
Hartman's trenchant interpretation of 
many key similes and tropes, and with 
Hartman's reverence for Milton's calm 
authorial control over the supernatural 
events of the poem. 

Indeed, "Cases" contains essays that 
reveal what Hartman values most in litera-
ture, judgments that are related to a theo-
retical backdrop but that are also largely the 
product of personal preference. This is 
where we get into the mind of a great eric-
ic, and begin to see his critical faculty in 
action. Nowhere is this more prominently 
figured than in Hartman's discussion of 
Wordsworth. In "Wordsworth's Touching 
Compulsion," Hartman is concerned with 
the "loss of an earlier relation, or of the pri-
mary love object (the mother, 'heaven')" 
which "is not easily compensated." He 
envisions much of Wordsworth's poetry as 
striving to replace the lost mother-object 
with Narure as a substitute love-object. 
Touch becomes a transcendent force in the 
poems, liberating Wordsworth from the 
tyranny of the eye and bringing him closer 
to the "one dear Presence" which is the 
"object of Wordsworth's nature poems." 
This quest for a presence that transcends 
representation is an important aspect of 
Wordsworch's poetry, and one which 
Hartman greatly admires. For it is in this 
emphasis on crystallizing absences through 
symbolic representation, rather than bring-
ing them into the poetry in the form of 
"gothic, ghostly, or surrealist fantasies, or 
animated spectres," where Wordsworth 
affirms 
greatest poetical 
power. 

Hartman writes, "under the words are 
ghostlier words, half-perceived figures or 
fragments that seem to be at once part of 
the lost object and more living than what is 
present." Keep the absent absent, Hartman 
is saying, and poetry then transcends its 
own language: we are swept up by the mys-
tery of what lies beneath and muse on the 
limits of the visionary expanse. 

A Critic's ]ou~ unites the various 
concerns, theories, and preoccupations of a 
literary life in one convenient location. We 
can join Hartman on his journey at our 
leisure, but we will invariably return out of 
breath, bewildered, and in need of 
reflection. Hartman describes the function 
of the critic in terms that reflect the 
difficulty of the literary excursion ahead of 
us: "The critic, then, is one who makes us 
formally aware of the bewildering character 
of fiction. Books are our second Fall, the 
reenactment of a seduction that is also a 
corning to knowledge. The innermost hope 
they inspire may be the one Henirich von 
Kleist expressed: 'onJy by caring a second 
time of the tree of knowledge will we regain 
paradise.'" Geoffrey Hartman, as such a lit-
erary critic, is another Adam for our gener-
ation. 

II&IJ 
Simon Hanft is a smior in Saybrook Co/kg~. 



**Title: The Million-Dollar Men**
**Author: Ian Blecher**
**Page number(s): 46**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The Million-Dollar Men 
IIV 111 Blecher 
ON 
THE WoRLD 
WRESTLING 
Federation's web sire, pinned 
under hor pix of fat, sweary men 
in Speedos and messages from 
such luminaries as Buh Buh and 
Droz, 
you can 
now 6nd 
"Investor Opportunities." And 
though the opportuniry to 
purchase 
a T-shirt 
reading 
"Layeth the Smacketh Down! [and on the back] On 
Your CANDYASS!" does seem titillating, it pales in comparison to the 
adventure of owning a piece of the action. When the WWF hit the 
Nasdaq on October 19 with an initial public offering of S17 per 
share, the Big Boss Men of American venture capital rumbled for 
6nancial supremacy: by the afternoon, shares were going for S35· 
But here in our sleepy little hollow, this Wall Street chicanery 
hardly turned any heads (when did you last see Peter Lynch on pay-
per-view?). At the Coliseum on October 31, no one was calking 
about business: it was all about the smackdown. The place was filled 
almost to capacity with a motley assortment of fans-as if a torna-
do had slammed a trailer park into downtown New Haven. 

The woman next to me weighed nearly 300 pounds (or about 
as much as Sexual Chocolate Mark Henry). She had at least four 
kids with her, which meant she'd shelled out over SIOO for tickets 
(and which also meant that if she'd invested the money in WWP 
stock two weeks ago, the profits would have paid for the whole 
show}. While I was ogling the numerous cigarette burns that dap-
pled her arms, the arena got dark and a guy in a tuxedo stepped into 
the spotlight. He thanked all the sponsors graciously, and men-
tioned some of the mountain of memorabilia for sale at the conces-
sion stands. Some fans a few rows back shouted, "I want to toss 
your salad," which a nearby spectator told me had something to do 
with anal play. By the end of his pitiful pitch, the whole crowd was 
shouting, "Ass ... hole! Ass ... hole!" 

Then The Godfather came on the scene. He was dressed in fur 
and dripping with gold jewelry. In his hand, he held a cane-which 
really makes you wonder what he was doing wrestling-and on his 
arm, three lovely ladies. He rook the mike from the suit, and 
growled, "Is there any pimps in this house?" Apparently, there was 
many pimps in that house, because everyone cheered. To which The 
Godfather repHed, "Roll up a fatty I for this big daddy!" Wild 
applause. The guy behind me confided to his girlfriend: "Pimpin' 
sure ain't easy." 

The Godfather was ruling the roost until who should appear 
but Midian, a giant of a man wearing nothing bur a custom pair of 
bikini underwear. Midian was apparently intent on making time 
with The Godfather's women. He cleared his throat and belted, 
"You don't know how to treat these hos. If they 
was mine, they'd be on they knees blessin' me." 
No one in the audience seemed to agree. 
"Ass ... hole! Ass ... hole!" 
The stage was set: it was time to fight. They 
danced around the ring a little, jabbing and occa-
sionally throwing each other. This was all sort of 
boring. actually. Neither offered any defense, 
and neither showed any skills che other didn't 
have. But in the end, Midian got pinned. He 
shuffled out of the ring quickly, with his rail 
between his legs; meanwhile, The Godfather had some tail of his 
own between his legs. With a Little funk music playing, he proceed-
ed to parry suggestively with his three prostitutes. Soon, however, 
this triumfeminare, apparently a lirtle bored with their pimp, saun-
tered over ro the referee (!) and started dry-humping him. 

It went on like this, one homo-erotic march after another-an 
eight-man rag-ream challenge, rhe European Championship 
between British Bulldog and Test, a g,rudgematch between Kane 
and X-pac. Until it was time for che Intercontinental 
Championship, between champion Chyna (a woman!} and chal-
lenger Y2J Chris Jericho. Y2.J spent a a few minutes absolutely kick-
ing Chyna's ass, which was a little scary, considering the cigarette-
burned woman next to me. In the end, Chyna pinned him after a 
brutal reverse. 

The ruxedo guy then announced that Bob Backlund_, WWF 
wrescler-rurned congressional candidate, was soliciting campaign 
contributions in return for autographs in the lobby. There, I found 
a bright-eyed man in a T-shirt-tuxedo with a red bow-tie and red 
suspenders. What's your platform? "Get government out of rhe life 
of the American people." Okay ... how? "Get rid of the IRS." What's 
your take on the proliferation of pro-wrestlers in government roday? 
"Look, you're better off with a wrestler representing you than an 
attorney." I had to agree, but no, I didn't care ro make a concribu-
oon. 

Back in the ring, The Rock was raking on HHH for the 
Championship, which is more important than the Intercontinental 
and the European combined. The Rock won after HHH was dis-
qualified on a technicaliry (who says wrestlers are better than 
lawyers?). The audience practically stormed the ring. looking for an 
autograph. And when The Rock went to the showers, everyone 
wenr to the parking lot ro wait for his car, which they would have 
mobbed had the police not sealed off the area. Even the kid whose 
"666" shirt testified to his familiariry with let-downs seemed a little 
let down. 

Whar's the big deal? you ask. Isn't it all fake? Let me refer that 
question to your Congressman. 
· 
I8J 
A roval rumble tor a piece ot The Rocl 
Ian Blecher, a senior in Davenport College, is a managing editor of TNJ 
THE NEw JouRNAL 



--- Page 47 ---

Of course, no one can guarantee a particular LSAT score. 
But Kaplan has gotten more students into law school 
than all other national review courses combined. 
Call us today to find out why Kaplan is the number one LSAT prep in the world. 
KAPLAN~ 
1-800-KAP·TEST 
www.kaplan.com 
'LSAT is a registered trademar1< of the Law School AdmiSSion CouncU 
**Performance comparison between Kaplan's LSAT diagnostic and an actual LSAT exam. 
Craig's score should not be taken as an indication of what the average student 
or students In general can expect to achieve. 
., 

