Publication date: OCT 2019
Volume: 52
Issue number: 2


**MASTHEAD**
- editors-in-chief: Laura Glesby, Max Graham
- executive editor: Elliot Wailoo
- senior editors: Lily Moore-Eissenberg
- associate editors: Hailey Andrews, Beasie Goddu, Alejandra Larriva-Latt, Helena Lyng-Olsen, Jack McCordick, Eli Mennerick, Trish Viveros, Candice Wang
- copy editors: Jisoo Choi, Elena DeBre, Matthew Kleiner, Yonatan Greenberg, Nicole Jefferson, Sofia Laguarda
- creative director: Chase Westover
- design editors: Rebecca Goldberg, Meher Hans, Zihao Lin, Sam Oldshue
- photo director: Vivek Suri
- photographers: Nico Taylor, Ryan Fuentes
- web developer: Andrew Sheinberg


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- cover - Eli Mennerick
- IN EARNEST - Hailey Andrews
- THE REVOLUTION OF THE LEFT HAND - Meera Rothman
- SEAMS OF THE SELF - Lakshmi Amin
- UNDERTAKING EQUITY - Abby Steckel
- KEEPING THE LIGHTS ON - Ko Lyn Cheang
- NAKED FOR EDVARD MUNCH - Daniella Cohen
- STAR TREATMENT - Katherine Yao
- LOCAL HAUNTS - Isabel Kirsch



**Title: THE REMATCH**
**Author:  (Not specified)**
**Page number(s): 1**


---

**Title: THE INCUMBENT**
**Author: Eli Mennerick**
**Page number(s): 22**

After a decades-long career in politics, Toni Harp reckons 
with her first-ever electoral loss.



**Title: THE CHALLENGER**
**Author: Mara Hoplamazian**
**Page number(s): 27**

With the mayor’s office in sight, Justin Elicker works to win 
New Haven’s trust.



**Title: IN EARNEST**
**Author: Hailey Andrews**
**Page number(s): 4**

Urn Pendragon exited New Haven’s mayoral race, but she hasn’t given up her cause.



**Title: THE REVOLUTION OF THE LEFT HAND**
**Author: Meera Rothman**
**Page number(s): 7**

(Poetry.  No content provided in this excerpt)



**Title: SEAMS OF THE SELF**
**Author: Lakshmi Amin**
**Page number(s): 8**

(Prose. No content provided in this excerpt)



**Title: UNDERTAKING EQUITY**
**Author: Abby Steckel**




**Title: KEEPING THE LIGHTS ON**
**Author: Ko Lyn Cheang**




**Title: NAKED FOR EDVARD MUNCH**
**Author: Daniella Cohen**
**Page number(s): 15**




**Title: STAR TREATMENT**
**Author: Katherine Yao**
**Page number(s): 16**

A day in the life of the Yale School of Medicine’s very own Netflix celebrity.



**Title: LOCAL HAUNTS**
**Author: Isabel Kirsch**
**Page number(s): 34**

A first-year student tries her best to get in touch with New Haven’s paranormal 
residents.



**Title: Hailey Andrews**
**Author: Hailey Andrews**
**Page number(s): 4-6**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 4
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
P R O F I L E
HAILEY ANDREWS
IN EARNEST
A
fter her fourth night of troubled 
sleep, Urn Pendragon decided to run 
for mayor of New Haven. She had been 
weighing the prospect since a public hearing 
at City Hall on February 21, when hundreds of 
community members congregated to discuss Yale’s 
failure to fulfill a promise it had made in 2015 
to hire 1,000 New Haven residents. Pendragon 
had mulled over the testimonies of her fellow 
New Haveners for days. After nearly two years of 
organizing in New Haven, this was the moment 
that “set me over the edge,” she recalls.

At 48 years old, Pendragon felt “political” for 
the first time. Up until then, she experienced 
life through a “mental fog” that obscured any 
motivation to engage politically. She attributes 
the alleviation of this fog to her gender transition, 
which acted as a kind of biological and spiritual 
solvent, dissolving the haze through which she 
had lived her entire life. 

Pendragon’s relationship to her trans identity is 
“unique,” in her words, and arose unexpectedly. 
In her mid-40s, Pendragon was diagnosed with 
Klinefelter syndrome, which affects individuals 
with two or more X chromosomes and a Y 
chromosome. She decided to undergo hormone 
replacement therapy, coming out to friends and 
family as a trans woman. The result was instant: 
the fog lifted. 

Before her transition, Pendragon experienced 
a severe bout of clinical depression linked to 
overproduction of estrogen and testosterone—a 
result of Klinefelter syndrome. “For me,” Pendragon 
began, “because I couldn’t focus, because of my 
anatomy—you’re withdrawn from the things that 
you truly want to do or how you want to behave. 
You’re stifled.” Yet Pendragon is cautious not 
to universalize her experience. Although her 
navigation of gender has been intimately linked 
with biology, she acknowledges that the two “can 
be both separate and intertwined.”

As a local activist, Pendragon seeks to “fix the 
problems instead of trying to outlive them.” She 
has lobbied in front of the General Assembly 
for a fifteen-dollar minimum wage and served 
on the Affordable Housing Task Force; she 
supported local civic action events, like the Stop 
& Shop strikes that resulted in better pay and 
healthcare coverage for workers; she participated 
in negotiations over renewed police contracts; she 
advocated for a state bill that created a paid family 
and medical leave system. 

When I asked Pendragon where she wanted to 
meet, she invited me to a meeting with Mothers 
and Others for Justice, a group of New Haveners 
who gather to build community through activism 
and legislative action. Pendragon attends these 
meetings every month in the basement of Stepping 
Stone Transitional Housing on Winchester. Having 
taken the Yale shuttle as far up Winchester as the 
route allowed, I found myself before a sienna brick 
building, with windows partitioned into triptychs, 
and an ecru set of double doors that looked more 
decorative than functional. Following the rasp of 
skateboard wheels on asphalt, I wound around the 
building to a ramp leading into a basement, where 
I would find Pendragon, wearing a Nike t-shirt and 
pale denim, doling out side-hugs and balancing a 
plateful of food. 

Pendragon’s eyes glowed with the phosphoric 
glaze of the fluorescent lights. The tendrils of 
wavy blonde hair that evaded her studded silver 
headband fell leisurely onto her face. When I 
asked Pendragon why she wanted to meet here, 
she scanned the room. There was a communal 
heap of rotisserie chicken and coleslaw by the 
door, and Audre Lorde quotes framed in the 
menthe construction paper that decorated the 
walls. Fellow activists chatted at tables, forming a 
‘U’ shape around the room. 

Mothers and Others was the first community 
in which Pendragon encountered unwavering 
acceptance—where her serious involvement in 
grassroots organizing began. Here she met people 
who, like her, had experienced homelessness and 
food insecurity. Taking a swig of apple juice, she 
said, “It was a really great fit for me, but also, I 
have a lot of friends here.” 

Pendragon was born in Lansing, Michigan, and 
was less than a year old when her mother divorced 
her father. Together, she and her mother moved 
often across the Midwest and South. Her most 
salient memories linger between St. Louis, Tulsa, 
and the Winston-Salem area of North Carolina. 
Yet she couldn’t identify with the places that raised 
her. “It was like taking a New Yorker and shoving 
them in the middle of the country,” she remarked.

Pendragon 
moved 
to 
South 
Windsor, 
Connecticut, 
after 
graduating 
from 
SUNY 
Stonybrook with a Bachelor’s degree in Psychology 
over ten years ago, and she has stayed in the 
state ever since. She worked for Cablevision for 
five years but was one of six hundred employees 
laid off when the company was bought out. After 
taking a moment to reflect on what came next for 
her, Pendragon looked at me and said, “The cards 
stacked up in just the right order.” 

Shortly after, Pendragon discovered she was 
eligible for a state program that subsidizes higher 
education for recently laid-off workers. She 
made an early withdrawal from her (401)k to 
buy a car. She arranged to live with one friend 
in New Haven during the week and with another 
in West Haven on weekends so she could attend 
class at Southern Connecticut State University. 
Pendragon was determined to get her Master’s in 
Political Science; she couldn’t see herself studying 
anything else. “Politics touches every part of our 
lives,” she remarked, “and I’ve been running with 
it since then.” 

The central policy goal of Pendragon’s 
mayoral campaign was the implementation of an 
inclusionary zoning ordinance that would require 
20 to 22 percent of units in new housing projects 
to be affordable housing. As of April 2019, she 
said, “twelve out of the fifteen towns in the New 
Haven region dip below the 10 percent threshold 
for affordable housing.” Pendragon presented the 
inclusionary zoning initiative, paired with city 
advocacy for solar farms, wind turbines, and other 
forms of sustainable energy, in her “New Haven 
Green Deal.” 

When I asked Pendragon why affordable 
housing is so central to her campaign strategy, she 
told me that she sees housing as “the central issue 
of our lives.” 

Photo by Vivek Suri


--- Page 5 ---

OCTOBER 2019
 5
Urn Pendragon exited New Haven’s mayoral 
race, but she hasn’t given up her cause.


“You spend anywhere between 30 and 60 
percent of your money to put a roof over your 
head. If you’re paying more than you should, 
which is anywhere between 25 and 30 percent, 
there is such a discontinuity,” Pendragon tells me. 
Her hands fiddle with the tassel of her purse. “For 
those of us who are between homelessness and 
being able to afford housing…it’s really no way 
to live.” 

In the middle of the Mothers and Others for 
Justice meeting, Pendragon pushes her chair back 
and stands to make an announcement: she has 
decided to withdraw from the mayoral race. 
Justin Elicker, who had won the Democratic 
primary days earlier, shares many of Pendragon’s 
policy priorities, such as inclusionary zoning and 
a bill to combat homelessness. After his victory, 
Elicker asked Pendragon to join his administration 
in an “amalgamated” position that would combine 
policy-making, city-planning, and economic 
development. Pendragon tells the crowd that she 
accepted Elicker’s offer. The room swells with 
applause. 

As I walk with Pendragon to her car after the 
meeting, I anticipate a cast of disappointment 
to undergird her attitude toward Elicker. But 
any mournfulness she feels about the race is 
overshadowed by an excitement to develop an 
affordable housing plan under Elicker’s tenure.   

I ask her if she thinks it would have been possible 
for her to win the race with her background. “Of 
course!” Pendragon declares. I notice the solar 
panels that shimmer on the roof of her car under 
the opal light of the moon. She gushes to me 
about an idea she has: a collaboration with a local 
artist to create wind turbines that could contribute 
aesthetically to the city and reinforce New Haven’s 
commitment to sustainable energy. 

When I ask Pendragon why she ran for mayor 
in 2019, she explains, “the timing was not right 
before.” Prior to getting her Master’s, Pendragon 
lacked the theoretical framework to articulate her 
own experiences, something she saw as essential 
to her candidacy. However, even with a graduate 
education, Pendragon’s entry into the political 
sphere has presented formidable challenges. 

“Filling out the forms at the City Clerk office 
was very easy to do. That’s always accessible,” 
Pendragon says. But the race’s accessibility is also 
contingent on factors such as exposure, personal 
experience, and connections, Pendragon explains. 
Lacking in any of these areas could be devastating 
to a campaign, even for candidates who consider 
themselves “qualified.” 

I think about what it means to be qualified. 
Is knowing how to navigate the bureaucracy 
and formalities of politics what makes a person 
qualified? Or is the stake a person holds in the issues 
they are fighting for, and an intimate knowledge 
of those issues, also of value? Pendragon’s mayoral 
run carried a personal urgency missing from 
her former competitors’ campaigns; she and her 
community are the ones primarily affected by the 
consequences. This is where the power in her 
activism lies. For Pendragon, waiting to outlive 
these issues is not an option.  

--- Page 6 ---

 6
– Hailey Andrews is a sophomore 
in Pierson College.



**Title: the revolution of the left hand**
**Author: Meera Rothman**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
P O E M
the revolution of the left 
hand
Illustration by Sam Oldshue
MEERA ROTHMAN
stuck in the shadow
she rests and plays  
dutifully trudging forward
she rests again
tilts her head and listens
     la da da, doom doom! 
he is captivating
and she has nearly missed her cue
she journeys onward, driving up crescendos into chords
when he gets lost in trill, she grabs him by the hand 
and pulls him to his feet
it has always been this way 	
what way?
	
a marriage?
	
a friendship? 
	
a partnership?
sometimes they touch in the middle
but it is fleeting and he is first to leave, scaling back upward
to melodies she could only dream of and applause that drowns her out
still she listens thoughtfully
and watches carefully
and waits for her turn. 
– Meera Rothman is a junior in 
Benjamin Franklin College.


**Title: SEAMS OF THE SELF**
**Author: Lakshmi Amin**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

THE  NEW  JOURNAL
LAKSHMI AMIN
SEAMS OF THE SELF
A local designer stitches a new philosophy of fashion 
into his “wearable art.”
T
yrone “Tea” Montgomery has one 
guiding principle of style: to dress 
according to how he feels. I met him 
on an uncharacteristically warm September 
afternoon, seated in Koffee next to a garment 
bag containing a riot of colorful clothing. “I 
can’t really say that I’m into fashion, so I can’t 
tell you the brands and the trends or things like 
that,” he explained, “but what I know is style.” 
He wore a white t-shirt, a snapback hat, and 
crisp custom-made tracksuit joggers sharpened 
by contrasting grey and white patterns. Striped 
socks wrapped up his look with a hint of color. 
Frustrated by a lack of originality and variety 
in the clothes he found at stores, Tea decided 
that if he couldn’t find the garments he wanted, 
he’d have to create them himself.
So he started Threads by Tea—a one-man 
business that sells “wearable art,” specially 
customized apparel designed and crafted by 
Tea. The start-up operates out of Tea’s New 
Haven studio and reaches customers through 
word of mouth, his “organically grown” local 
network, and social media platforms; he plans 
to expand soon to an online store.
Tea doesn’t work from a catalogue. Instead, he 
provides clients the space to express themselves 
through clothing designed specifically for 
them. As he explains it, his process of getting to 
know customers is simple: “First, tell me how 
you want to feel,” he said during a presentation 
reported by the New Haven Independent. 
“Then, tell me how you want to look.” Tea’s 
end goal is to make a garment that’s not just 
aesthetically appealing, but that captures 
the essence of a customer’s personality. Less 
interested in building pieces around his own 
style or brand, he custom-designs clothes to 
enhance the confidence of the people wearing 
them.
Tea exudes a sense of ease with himself. 
He recalled how he got his nickname: “As I 
grew and discovered myself, I recognized how 
people naturally feel calm and safe around me. 
I noticed how, much like a tea bag in water, 
I change my environment for the better.” 
As he enters an industry ruled by trends and 
characterized by a preference for models who 
look alike, Tea is determined to spread his 
commitment to self-expression. In just two 
years since generating the idea for his business, 
Tea has not only taught himself how to sew, but 
also welcomed others to join him as clients and 
collaborators. Threads by Tea’s Instagram and 
Facebook accounts brim with quotes set against 
its logo, a spool of thread spilling out of a teacup. 
The posts are punctuated by characteristic “.. .” 
dots, meant to act as both Tea’s signature and 
a pause for the reader—a brief “moment for 
thought,” he explained.
Tea prides himself on the fact that his 
business draws people from all walks of life; 
the typical Threads by Tea customer does not 
exist. “Regardless of what they do,” he said of 
his clients, who range in age from 4 to 70, “they 
want to make some noise in their worlds.”
This past spring, Tea eagerly took on his 
first large-scale project for Tia Russell Dance 
Studios: creating costumes for the Shubert 
Theatre’s summer production of Charlie and 
the Chocolate Factory. He had little experience 
in constructing dancewear and only two and a 
half months to complete the commission. Still, 
he tirelessly pushed through trial and error to 
create fifty-four costumes full of whimsy and 
color.
When we met at Koffee, Tea unpacked his 
overflowing garment bag and handed me a plaid 
snapback. The shimmering, sleek underside of 
the hat, lined with a trimming I could imagine 
on the hem of a dress, took me by surprise. 
Tea sifted through his collection of jumpsuits 
and two-pieces: a patchwork of paisley squares 
popped against black knit pants, floral pinks 
met geometric reds and blues, and patterns 
exploded with each shifting hem.
Tea, looking up from his clasped hands, said 
that he was born and raised in New Haven. 
“I left for school and such, moved away a 
couple of times, but I always come back,” 
he said. A Bachelor’s in Marketing at UC 
Berkeley, a Master’s in Entertainment Business 
Management at Full Sail University, and an 
unfulfilling position in sales and hospitality led 
him back to his hometown. After returning to 
New Haven, he said, he set out on a “journey” 
to discover “how to use my real talents and 
abilities to make a living my way.” 
Tea had mentioned that he incorporates 
music into his practice, so I clicked through his 
SoundCloud page, where he sometimes refers 
to himself as “Montgom’ry Tea.” The page’s 
description muses: “An artist’s journey...is to 
teach themselves to the world.”
Scrolling through track after track, I saw Tea 
reappear on each album cover. On one, he is 
accompanied by ghostly cartoon characters 
splattered with purple and green at a table 
littered with doodled bottles. On another, he 
beams in sunglasses and an elegant black blazer. 
I click on a song entitled “I Guess,” not knowing 
what to expect. Diana Ross’s booming intro to 
“Ain’t No Mountain High Enough” merges 
with Tea’s rapping and an echoing melody. I 
can sense the same impulse to fuse Diana Ross 
with Tea’s own voice in the collision of fabrics 
in a single garment. His plans for a Threads 
by Tea showcase within the next year or so 
include five collections, each accompanied by 
a corresponding EP album.
As his philosophy of individuality continues to 
steep and spread in the communities he works 
with, Tea encourages his customers to wear 
their personalities boldly on their sleeves. Artist 
and educator Meghan Shah was struck by Tea’s 
ability to create statement pieces that empower 
his clients. She remembered several instances 
in which strangers approached Tea and told him 
they would never have been able to pull off his 
look, but Tea makes it his mission to encourage 
these same people instead to embrace these 
outfits in what Shah calls “accessible” clothing. 
Since their meeting, the collaboration has 
“developed a voice of its own” through a mixture 
of Shah’s fabric and Tea’s clothing design, with 
her textiles set to be included in an upcoming 
line of his clothing. They even worked together 
to fuse Shah’s purple, blue, and white pattern 
with Tea’s vision in a tunic made especially for 
her. “I felt like I was all that,” Shah laughed as 
she fondly recalled the process of making the 
overcoat with him. Above all, she admires Tea’s 
ability to dress for himself, not for the occasion.
– Lakshmi Amin is a junior in 
Branford College.



**Title: UNDERTAKING EQUITY**
**Author: Abby Steckel**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
O
n the wall of Howard K. Hill’s 
office hangs a framed poster with a 
quote that begins: “THE FUNERAL 
helps confirm the reality and finality of death.” 
But while Hill owns a funeral home, he doesn’t 
just serve people at burial time. He encourages 
people “to prepare not just for death, but to 
prepare for life.” 

Howard K. Hill Funeral Services first opened 
its doors in 2004. Fifteen years and two new 
branches later, Hill is well-established in the 
business. “As a funeral director, you have to 
entrench yourself in community in order to 
remain relevant,” he told me, settled in a high-
backed leather chair. Hill wears elegant suits, 
has a shiny bald head, and maintains a thin, neat 
mustache. He talks slowly and evenly, and moves 
with practiced calm. Glass plaques on a table 
in his office commend his leadership, and one 
declares him Humanitarian of the Year. 

Hill bought his Chapel Street building—a 
three-story, nineteenth-century house with a 
red awning—from Monahan, Cox, Smith, & 
Crimmins Funeral Home, which has since 
migrated to Wooster Square. Hill said the 
business 
moved 
“because 
the 
population 
shifted.” According to Hill, his predecessors 
served mostly Italian and Irish families and left 
the neighborhood when their clients did. Today, 
many of Hill’s neighbors are Yale-affiliated 
renters who don’t bring much business. “Yale 
clientele are not necessarily dying; they’re not 
necessarily from here; and they come here very 
temporarily,” he said. 

Most of Hill’s clients are black families who 
attend church in the surrounding Dwight 
neighborhood. “They may live out in the 
suburbs, but they come to church here,” said 
Hill, who participates in church events. “So 
when something happens, they know me.” He 
emphasized that segregation in the funeral 
business is by no means organic—his difficulty 
attracting white customers has deep roots in 
historic prejudice. While white funeral directors 
have been able to “serve the black community 
with ease,” Hill has had difficulty expanding 
his client base. “Do I want to serve in other 
communities, white communities? Absolutely I 
do. I’m a business person,” he said. 

Hill pointed out Gerry Brown, an older white 
man and funeral director. Hill hired Brown 
about ten years ago “for the specific reason” of 
developing stronger ties to New Haven’s white 
population. “It was in my original business plan 
that I want to be the first African American 
funeral home that routinely serves in white 
communities,” he said. “It still hasn’t worked.” 

Brown remains involved in community 
outreach. He helps host death preparedness 
“seminars” at churches, community centers, and 
senior centers, assisting families with funeral 
arrangements in advance of any deaths.

Hill sees his limited market as a symptom of 
the challenges that black-owned businesses 
encounter. 

Following 
legally 
mandated 
integration, many black-owned businesses were 
wiped out by their white-owned counterparts, and 
these businesses are again in decline, Hill said. 

In 2014, his concern about this trend prompted 
him to found the Black Business Alliance, which 
coordinates networking, training, and technical 
assistance for black entrepreneurs in New 
Haven, Hartford, and Fairfield counties. 

Early in his career, Hill noticed that many 
families struggled to cover funeral costs. He 
integrated financial advice into his funeral 
consultations, speaking about savings and 
investments, life insurance, and how to preserve 
wealth across generations. He often buries 
multiple family members, so he tries to help 
people make financial plans from one funeral to 
the next. 

Hill even hired one former client, and later 
helped her start her own business. After Sandra 
Watts, the daughter of a woman Hill had buried, 
lost her job, Hill hired her as the funeral home’s 
chaplain. It was her job to provide mourners with 
emotional support. At Hill’s encouragement, 
she also arranged flowers in the funeral home’s 
basement. When a local florist wanted to sell their 
shop to Hill, he signed the lease on Watts’s behalf. 
Watts had never owned a business before, but she 
“trusted [Hill] because he was proof that it could 
be done.” Now, she has a storefront on Shelton 
Avenue in New Haven, and another space on 
Dixwell Avenue in Hamden. Her shop is called 
Remember the Lilies, after her mother, Lily. 

Moved by the financial insecurity he witnessed 
in his customers, Hill started a fund to help cover 
end-of-life ceremonies. This organization, now 
called The Prosperity Foundation, evolved to 
support organizations that serve Connecticut’s 
black community with services that include college 
and career preparation, culinary education, and 
support for people experiencing homelessness. 

As he supports other black businesses and 
organizations, Hill is also expanding his own 
franchise. In addition to existing locations in 
Hartford and Bloomfield, he is purchasing 
another funeral home in New Britain. He wants 
his branches not only to provide services for the 
dead but to spur economic prosperity among the 
living. In Hartford, for example, he is advocating 
to redevelop the area around his funeral home as 
a shopping district for the local community. “This 
is my community change model,” he said. “It’s 
reserved specifically to impact black communities, 
starting with an aggressive funeral director.” As 
Hill models it, this “aggressive funeral director” 
is someone who is determined to make change—
someone who leverages the business of death in 
order to enhance community life. 


**Title: KEEPING THE LIGHTS ON**
**Author: Ko Lyn Cheang**
**Page number(s): 12**

T
o an uninformed observer, Bob 
Bublitz looks like he might be in the 
belly of a ship. He sits behind an array of 
computer monitors in the control room of Yale’s 
Central Power Plant on Tower Parkway, watching 
red and green indicators blink at him like boats 
passing in the night. Bublitz has a white sailor’s 
beard, cast-iron shoulders, and forearms as thick 
as pipes. He served six years in the Navy, attaining 
the rank of Petty Officer second class by the time 
he left. When he first joined at eighteen, eager to 
continue the Bublitz family tradition of military 
service, he wanted to be a machinist. The only 
opening was for a boiler technician. “So into the 
pit I went,” he says. 

Working amid steam vapor in the hull of a navy 
ship, Bublitz was reminded of the steampunk 
adventurers in the novels of Jules Verne and the 
boiler room where Jack and Rose share a kiss in 
the Titanic. He was in love. And the object of his 
passion was steam-powered machinery. 

He stayed in the business of harnessing energy 
from steam after he was honourably discharged—
first, in a boiler room in a Hartford firearms 
factory, then at Yale. He hasn’t been in the Navy 
for more than two and a half decades now. And 
we are not in the belly of a ship. We are in the 
65,000-square-foot plant that keeps the lights 
on, the heat running, and the air chilled for the 
25,000-odd people who live and work on Yale’s 
central campus and Science Hill. 

At 7 a.m., as students and faculty stir in their 
beds, flip on the lights and turn on the shower, the 
engineers and mechanics and oilers at the plant 
come in for their shifts. Those who worked the 
night shift shuffle bleary-eyed out of the plant. On 
Christmas, Halloween, Thanksgiving and New 
Year’s, every hour, every day of the year, every 
year, the machinery churns on.

Outside the control room, the gas turbine 
grumbles constantly and loudly (at around ninety 
decibels), forcing the plant workers to stuff their 
ears with foam plugs to prevent hearing damage. 
Plumes of pale steam waft between serpentine 
pipes. “Victory Energy, Full Steam Ahead!” is 
emblazoned on the side of a boiler. The plant 
compresses and burns natural gas that is piped in, 
producing electricity and waste heat in the process. 
The waste heat boils water into ‘free steam’ in 
these boilers. Pregnant with energy, the highly-
pressurized steam flows over and spins the turbine’s 
blades. The steam feeds everything—the heaters 
in the winter and chillers for air-conditioning 
in the summer. Delicate cables housed in silver 
metal conduits branch out from the plant beneath 
the streets of New Haven, around cemeteries and



**Title: The Yale Power Plant**
**Author: Ko Lyn Cheang**
**Page number(s): 13-14**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
OCTOBER 2019
 13
dorm rooms, carrying electricity to bedside lamps 
and lecture halls.
When Bublitz walks through the plant, he 
listens for problems. After twenty-five years 
of working here, he knows the sounds of the 
machinery like a parent knows their child’s cries. 
Pings are comforting; gurgling is not a good 
sign. The sound he dislikes most of all is water 
hammer—the banging noise produced when 
steam barrelling through pipes contains water 
droplets that collide with difficult-to-navigate pipe 
corners. Like bullets in a body, these errant water 
particles can seriously damage the equipment.

The turbines and gas compressors and boilers 
are housed within a neo-Gothic brick structure 
that is over a century old. Natural light floods the 
ground floor, where most of the vital machinery 
hums along. Elegant floor to ceiling windows 
belie the fact that the building is explosion-proof, 
a feature that is particularly important given that 
the plant is surrounded on all sides by people, 
living and dead. Bublitz’s colleague jokes that we 
are sitting on ancient burial grounds: across the 
road is Grove Street Cemetery; the bodies of the 
“unholy” who died by suicide are rumoured to 
have been buried underneath at the edge of the 
cemetery, underneath our very feet.

Bublitz tells me wistfully about the artistry of 
the century-old architecture. When he arrived, 
the plant still proudly bore the original pumps, 
brass whistles, drip canisters, and brick-set 
Bigelow boilers. Wrought iron handrails lined the 
machinery. The year was 1994, but the atmosphere 
recalled the golden age of steam, the age of Nikola 
Tesla’s electrical dreams.

In those days, the boilers weren’t lit by the 
flip of a switch but by a guy with a torch. In the 
mornings, Bublitz’s team would send someone to 
light four of the boilers with a six-foot steel rod 
wrapped in asbestos cloth, drenched in diesel oil 
and fired off with a zippo lighter.
“Instead of a computer judging when to add 
more fuel or air or dampers we did it with our 
brains,” Bublitz tells me.

Thermally inert and non-flammable, asbestos 
seemed like a match made in heaven for insulating 
boilers. But between 1979 and 2000, hundreds of 
deaths due to asbestosis and mesothelioma, a type 
of cancer, were reported in Connecticut. The 
Mesothelioma Cancer Alliance lists Yale power 
plants as one of the job sites where you may have 
been exposed to harmful asbestos. Bublitz insists 
that as long as the asbestos was soaked, there was 
no danger—it’s when the toxic chemical turns 
into a dust or powder form that you have to be 
worried. 

Bublitz’s recollections seem almost mythic 
to me as I walk through the power plant on a 
Wednesday morning in September. The asbestos 
torches and brick-set boilers have been replaced 
by computerized signal systems and Italian-
made gas turbines. The fluorescent strip lights 
lining the walkways will soon make way for more 
environmentally-friendly LED lighting. The only 
continuity is steam. For as long as these energy-
charged vapours continue to spin turbines, Bob 
Bublitz’s steampunk dream hums on. 

In the plant, there is no room for error. In the 
winter, the stakes are even higher. One day in 
January 2008, it was 7 degrees and bitterly cold. 
A line ruptured in Gas Turbine Number Two. 
Bublitz, at that point the oiler, was in charge of 
turning valves and checking equipment. He was 
warming up two back-up boilers when an alarm 
pierced the frigid air. His shift partner went 
to investigate. Before he even got to the unit, it 
exploded. 

But unlike a lot of companies that operate with 
a tight bottom-line, Yale spends money to have 
extensive back-up systems. “Within seconds of 
the explosion, the built-in fire suppression system 
kicked in and the fire was out. By the time the fire 
company came, there was no actual fire,” Bublitz 
recalls. 

There was another problem, however: all three 
turbines were out of commission. Bublitz and the


--- Page 14 ---

 14
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
team fired up two temporary boilers to keep the 
heat and electricity running to campus. Working 
for hours through the night, they saved valuable 
equipment from freezing and averted a possible 
crisis of hypothermia. No one even noticed the 
explosion. “All the students slept through the 
night with a smile on their face,” Bublitz said. I 
could find no news on the event dating back to 
the time, although the plant records confirm that 
it happened. For Bublitz, it is a point of pride that 
his work is unnoticed. It means that nothing has 
gone wrong.

The plant manager takes me up several flights of 
stairs to the roof, where water spray swirls in white 
clouds. Eight chiller towers remove heat from 
the air-conditioner water returning from campus. 
Two brick smokestacks reach like armadillo tails 
to the pale summer sky. In the age of catalytic 
converters, the name “smokestack” doesn’t mean 
what it used to; I can see no smoke billowing from 
these towers.

The floor vibrates like the chest of a great beast. 
Big white fans on the roof pull the water toward the 
sky to dissipate the heat, before sending hundreds 
of gallons back down across chevron corrugated 
plates. I am standing before a great industrial 
waterfall.

From the roof, I can see the lamp-lit windows of 
the Sterling Memorial Library stacks and students 
zipping on bicycles between their classes. 
The Yalies and faculty who depend on the plant never 
give it a second thought, in much the same way 
that we never consider the unceasing palpitations 
of our own hearts.  

“Though we are never seen, we know that we 
have an important function,” Bublitz tells me later. 
“I may never be a great writer or politician or lawyer, 
but I bet I kept a few warm and the light on they 
studied by.” Behind the tall brick walls of the plant, 
seated in the control room, Bublitz monitors the 
machinery at the core of Yale’s operations. When 
dusk falls, his shift will end and his colleagues will 
take his place to keep the flame burning through 
the night. He is hidden, exactly as he thinks he 
should be. 
– Ko Lyn Cheang is a junior in 
Grace Hopper College 


**Title: Naked for Edvard Munch**
**Author: Daniella Cohen**
**Page number(s): 15**

 15
DANIELLA COHEN
Naked for Edvard 
Munch
P O E M
– Daniella Cohen is a senior in 
Timothy Dwight College
She sits on the white 
cot, barely- 
breasts splitting 
her sternum and
a little rippled baby 
fat above the hands,
splayed to cover  
the parts now 
in formation—
that darkness about her—
the muck
of Puberty encroaching as if
a shadow cast 
in the mirror
She stays 
still a long while.
Illustration by Hailey Andrews



**Title: STAR TREATMENT**
**Author: Katherine Yao**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The lobby of the main entrance to Yale New Haven Hospital’s Saint Raphael Campus was cold and quiet. I was there, waiting for Dr. Lisa Sanders, at 7 a.m. on a Wednesday morning—early for the average person, but normal, if not late, for the average doctor. Aside from the security woman leaning absent-mindedly on a stray podium in the far-left corner, I was alone. The occasional pack of medical residents rushed by with crisp white coats and Starbucks coffees, but they were gone before I could even register their faces. Bursts of energy followed by stillness. 

At exactly 7:30 a.m., I looked down the hallway to find a woman whom I assumed to be Sanders walking briskly towards me. If not for our direct eye contact, she would’ve been just another white coat rushing off and away. But as the sound of her clicking heels came closer, I was sure that the journalist-turned-doctor-turned-Netflix celebrity was approaching. 

Sanders has the focus of a doctor and the attitude of a television star. She features in Diagnosis, a Netflix docuseries, which aired this summer. And that’s just her latest media success; the new show is based on both Sanders’ book by the same name and her column for The New York Times. The column, which crowdsources diagnoses for perplexing medical cases, also inspired House, the popular Fox series about a doctor who brilliantly (if overdramatically) solves medical mysteries. Her gripping narratives and investigative expertise—evidence of her background as an English major at William & Mary College and Emmy Award-winning journalist at CBS News—have garnered a cult-like following. The numerous media projects Sanders has undertaken have been immensely popular, and yet, as I follow her into a dated family care room, I’m reminded that she is, first and foremost, a doctor. As a writer and an aspiring doctor myself, I’m eager to see how her perspective as a storyteller informs her medical practice.

Beneath Sanders’ white coat, she wears a bright red dress, accented by a scarf and matching red, pointed heels. She has double ear piercings—pairs of pearls and gold seashells—and rimless glasses that are as gentle and keen as the face they sit on. Two pens, a thin stack of notecards, and a phone rest neatly in her front coat pocket, and her pixie cut gives off what I can only describe as cool-mom vibes. 

We walk over to join her team outside the room and I’m introduced to the two residents, two interns, and lone medical student in Sanders’ service for the week. A few residents stop to give her hurried, only semi-coherent updates, and I learn afterward that they haven’t slept in twenty-eight hours. Sanders begins every day at 5 a.m.

In the room, case after case is reviewed to prep before rounds—a ritual in teaching hospitals like Yale New Haven that gives residents and medical students an opportunity to present a patient’s case to senior physicians. Stacks of paper are balanced on books balanced on legs, phones sit precariously on knees, laptops and iPads teeter on the arms of chairs, and small notebooks are held up with whatever limb is not occupied. The mood is lighthearted and calm, reminding me of the countless scenes from House where Dr. House, the protagonist, casually pours himself coffee while discussing the near-death of a patient. 

A man was brought to Yale New Haven last night after overdosing on opioids. He’d likely be dead if his friend hadn’t immediately administered Narcan and brought him to the hospital. An overwhelmingly complex narrative unfolds before me as the medical students talk. Heroin. Cocaine. Marijuana. Cigarettes. Released just last Friday from prison. A fifteen-month-long sentence for a ninety-milligram possession charge. Light banter and the occasional laugh punctuates the story. Someone pulls out a granola bar and takes a few bites. History of Hepatitis C. Diabetes. I learn that during the first week after release from jail, drug overdose mortality rates are significantly higher. “Policy failure or policy success?” a resident jokes, in response to this fact. 

Sanders sits quietly on a worn couch at the end of the room, legs crossed in a gesture that suggests both ease and acute awareness. “He’s lucky to be here,” she says. Her words cut the room. For a second, the sleep-deprivation-induced relaxation dissipates as Sanders reminds everyone that last night, someone almost died. 

As the team begins to formulate a plan of action, a resident asks how best to ask a patient for permission to administer HIV and Hepatitis C tests. Sanders never hurries to answer questions, always letting a mildly unsettling bit of silence hover in the room before giving her own thoughts. But this time she jumps in. “Remember—you don’t have to get consent. You just inform and they can decline.” Put simply, her answer was a don’t-explicitly-give-them-the-option-of-saying-no ploy. And with that, everyone in the room knew that they would simply be “informing” today, telling the patient that they would be receiving a test, and waiting obligatorily for an answer that the patient likely didn’t know was an option.                     

She warns her team about the consequences of bringing patients to the Hep C clinic. The Hep C treatment program “takes real adherence,” she says. And from the patient’s perspective, “it’s hard with anonymous white guys telling [them] what to do,” she adds. The team eventually agrees on calling Addiction Services, a pilot program at Yale New Haven that launched in 2017 and seeks to treat patients’ addictions while they’re in the hospital rather than refer them to a treatment center after discharge, the common practice elsewhere. 

They talk through a few more cases. One patient has had a potential stroke but is refusing to undergo a critical MRI because she is scared—not of what the test may show, but of the machine itself. Another patient refuses to leave despite being stable and cleared for discharge. A man who needs a right heart catheterization discovers his insurance has refused to pay for his hospitalization. I feel behind and incapable of catching up, stuck processing for the first time things that the people around me have evidently encountered hundreds if not thousands of times before. I wonder if and when hospital workers became desensitized. 

Before entering each patient’s room, the team huddles, like a high school soccer team before kickoff. Someone quickly runs over the game plan, and Sanders offers a few final words before letting her players loose. 

She later explains to me that she thinks of her job as a supervisor to the residents the same way she thought of herself as a mother to her teenage daughters. For both, she says, “My goal was to allow them to have a wide variety of experiences, as long as they didn’t get hurt.” As the daughter of a mother who had the very same parenting approach, I knew exactly what Sanders meant. 

The long pauses and quiet observation made sense. “They don’t have to do things my way,” she says. “As long as they aren’t going to do anything that hurts anybody.” 

“But it’s very hard for me to shut up,” she adds. 

For the patient who refuses to leave despite being stable and cleared for discharge, Sanders tells her team to focus on making the patient’s husband comfortable “because if he’s comfortable, she’s comfortable.” Sanders’ advice makes perfect sense, and yet, patient care can become so technical that some medical professionals forget that a patient is a human being, influenced by their surroundings and relationships. This woman likely trusts her husband infinitely more than she will ever trust a group of young, fresh-eyed budding doctors. Why try to win her over when he is right there?     

Faced with the woman who refused to submit to an MRI, Sanders’s approach was strategic: emphasize how seriously we take the patient’s concerns, tap into your 7-year-old self manipulating your mom, and remember that it’s all about what the patient wants. Sanders ended by saying, “We sell the right thing to do while still telling the truth.” 

Dr. Sanders credits her unorthodox literary background for her extraordinary ability to connect with patients. Studying the humanities as an undergraduate conditioned her to be “used to uncertainty”—something she says that many doctors struggle with. In medical school, Sanders points out, students learn the science in black and white. They have to pass multiple-choice tests with right and wrong answers. But, as Sanders says, “It’s not that way in medicine.”

“Coming up with the right answer is meaningless unless you can make it make sense to a patient,” Sanders adds, reminding me of my former English professor who always advised me to “remember [my] audience” when I wrote. Sanders has mastered this storytelling technique both on and off the paper. 

When Sanders did talk to patients, I was struck by how blunt she was. It’s one thing to be straightforward with jaded, stubborn fourth-year residents, and another to be blunt with the person in the hospital bed. Looking straight into the eyes of the patient who had overdosed on opioids the night before, Sanders said: “You’ve used heroin for years, so you know: The goal of addiction medicine, and ours, is to give you the tools you need to get it under control. You’ve been in the business for a while now,” she said. “You know it’s not under control.” 

Perhaps the most intimate interaction I witnessed between Sanders and a patient was with the man whose insurance refused to pay for his hospitalization. Hospital costs average $3,949 per day and each hospital stay costs an average of $15,734, according to debt.org. Both the patient and Sanders knew he couldn’t afford a stay. Sanders walked into his room, arms crossed and ready for what she would later tell me was a disturbingly typical situation. “Your insurance company is saying ‘Why are you in the hospital?’ I am going to wrestle them to the mat, but you have to be ready if I lose.” The patient was frustrated with a system that neither he—nor most Americans—could understand. If he could have jumped up from the worn, tattered arm chair beside his hospital bed, he would have. But he couldn’t. So he said aloud, to no one in particular, “I’m gonna fight. I don’t want to be here. I don’t want to be sick. I have a life to live.”

To anyone who has watched their fair share of medical dramas, that line may sound familiar. I grew up watching, reading, and hearing stories about this exact situation. Yet as it unfolded in real time right in front of me, I was taken aback. Sanders was unwavering. She sat down on the edge of his empty bed, looked him in the eye, and firmly said: “I tell you this because I want you to know. I’m not the one who’s gonna end up with the bill. You are.” The patient fell silent after this, glancing away as Sanders sat with him, her legs crossed, hands rested over her knees, the sharp tip of her bright red stiletto heel barely touching the toe of his hospital-issued-sock-covered foot. 

This was the uncertainty that Sanders, unlike many doctors, feels at ease handling. She shines in moments like these. I was reminded that, in addition to being a doctor, Sanders is a mystery hunter, writer, and solver. 

After I told Sanders I hoped to be a doctor, she warned me of what lay ahead. “You don’t get through medical school unless you perform the way the system wants you to perform. So doctors, by the time they get through medical school, are specialists at identifying what is expected of them. When you get paid more, that’s a way of telling you what you’re supposed to do.” She managed to avoid this path. But could I?

For now, Sanders is focused on wrapping up what she calls her “Netflix elective.” When she’s done with that, she hopes to negotiate a sort of semi-residency with Yale New Haven Hospital’s dermatology department to increase her exposure to a field in which she has little experience. “I want to know more so I have more to teach…You




**Title: don’t go into medicine unless you’re committed to lifelong learning.”**
**Author: Katherine Yao**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
OCTOBER 2019
 19
don’t go into medicine unless you’re committed to 
lifelong learning.”
As I gathered my things, Sanders repeated 
something she’d heard the Dean of Yale’s medical 
school say on opening day this year. “Fifty percent 
of what you learn in medical school is going to be 
wrong. Unfortunately, I can’t tell you which 50 
percent.” 
On television and in her writing, Sanders 
guides her readers and viewers through a search 
for the right answers to rare medical mysteries. 
But in person, she seems more comfortable with 
not knowing all the solutions. She’s determined to 
make people realize that uncertainty is inevitable, 
and that we must learn to be content with that 
fact. 


– Katherine Yao is a sophomore in 
Jonathan Edwards College.
Photo by Vivek Suri


**Title: THE  NEW  JOURNAL**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 20**

 20
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
In 2013, Toni Harp defeated Justin Elicker 
to become New Haven’s mayor. 
RE
THE 
Six years later, after a stunning 
primary upset, the same candidates 
face a city that wants a change.



**Title: The Incumbent**
**Author: Eli Mennerick**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I
t’s Wednesday night and DJ Commander 
plays the music loud. I’m at the Elks Lodge on 
Dixwell, where Mayor Toni Harp’s supporters 
are hosting an appreciation day to celebrate 
her legacy in New Haven. Harp is scheduled to 
attend, but she hasn’t arrived yet. R&B floods the 
room, and people greet each other, hug, laugh. 
The room keeps filling up. Then I hear some 
scattered applause from the hallway outside the 
room. The applause spreads inside, and suddenly 
everyone is cheering. “Toni, Toni, Toni,” they 
chant. Harp enters wearing a black blazer and 
waves to the crowded room. Over the speakers, DJ 
Commander says, “Ladies and gentlemen, Mayor 
Harp!” The room goes crazy.

Two weeks earlier, Harp had suspended her 
mayoral reelection campaign after losing the 
Democratic primary to Justin Elicker. But tonight, 
she’s trying to rally the energy of the room, forcing 
her voice to be animated as she reminisces about 
her successes. Reading from a script, Harp recounts 
how she removed a controversial fence between 
New Haven and Hamden, revitalized the Long 
Wharf food trucks, restored College Street Music 
Hall, balanced New Haven’s budget, improved 
graduation rates, and reduced crime. Then she 
says, “I just want you to know that I am still on the 
ballot.” The audience erupts into applause, and 
then more chants of “Toni, Toni, Toni…” One 
man yells, “Don’t give it up!”

 Harp grew up in Salt Lake City. She was the 
only black student in her middle school, and in 
her high school she was one of thirty in a class of 
600. According to the CT Mirror, she said in 2013 
that she “saw mistreatment as an African-American 
child in Utah.” She “realized that people mistreat 
people. And you have to rise above it.”

 In 1974, Harp graduated from Yale with a 
Master’s in Environmental Design. She became 
an alder for the Dwight neighborhood, then a 
state senator for twenty years. In 2013, she defeated 
Justin Elicker in New Haven’s mayoral election. It 
was the first time a woman had become mayor of 
the Elm City, and the second time a black person 
had. Over the next six years, unemployment 
in New Haven dropped 50 percent and crime 
dropped to its lowest point in fifty years. High 
school graduation rates increased, and so did 
affordable housing. Harp won in 2015 and 2017 
without much opposition.

And then, this September, she lost. Elicker took 
more than 58 percent of the votes in the primary. 
Harp suspended her campaign but decided to stay 
on the ballot for the general election on November 
5. It was her first loss ever as a politician, and it was 
to an opponent she had beaten six years ago, whose 
experience consisted of two terms as an alder and 
who led a nonprofit of five full-time employees.

The mood was more somber when I met Harp 
in her office at City Hall. She seemed sad. When 
she spoke, she looked around the room and rarely 
into my eyes. Harp is seventy-two years old. Her 
hair is a rich dark brown that verges on black, and 
it falls snugly around her head and onto her ears. 
I asked her why she thought she lost. “It’s hard 
to say,” she said. Her voice was quiet and slow. “I 
don’t really know.”

*

Harp did say, vaguely, that some voters had 
concerns with her administration. That’s true. 
The first signs of concern came in 2017, during 
the tortured process of hiring Carol Birks, a 
controversial candidate, as superintendent. Harp 
cast a deciding vote in Birks’s election at a Board 
of Education meeting where, according to the 
New Haven Independent, students walked out 
in protest, audience members stood with duct 
tape over their mouths, and one board member 
challenged another to a “duel.”

Then in 2018, Harp raised taxes by 11 percent 
to compensate for reduced state funding. And in 
November of that year, her administration relaxed 
lead paint inspection regulations so that the city 
would only be required to inspect the homes of 
children with at least fifteen micrograms per 
deciliter of lead in their bloodstream, rather than 
the previous, stricter standard of five micrograms. 
Since May, the city has faced a class-action lawsuit 
representing around three hundred children 
who could be harmed by the regulations. And in 
June, the FBI subpoenaed records from the Harp 
administration, apparently to investigate its use of 
public funds. So far, the FBI hasn’t released any 
findings.

Elicker cited many of these events in campaign 
ads. He accused Harp of “corruption and 
mismanagement” after the FBI probe. He blamed 
her for the lead poisoning of three hundred 
children, and he even attempted to link her to a 
mass K2 overdose on the New Haven Green in 
2018.


Harp’s supporters refute these allegations. 
Jeannette Morrison, the President Pro Tempore 
of the New Haven Board of Alders, where she 
represents Ward 22, noted that the fact that the 
FBI is investigating an administration doesn’t 
mean that the administration is guilty. Former 
Harp debate advisor Alex Taubes told me that 
Harp had to prioritize the most severe cases of lead 
poisoning first because the city didn’t have enough 
inspectors. And Harp herself pointed out that New 
Haven’s emergency services actually won awards 
for their response to the 2018 overdoses.

Taubes and I are sitting on a bench in the 
backyard of Koffee. He’s wearing a suit without 
a tie, and his fine hair is streaked with gray. He 
speaks with passion but without hurry, lingering 
on his words when he likes them, gesturing with 
his hands, and leaning back on the bench with his 
eyes closed. Taubes says that Elicker’s campaign 
engaged in “character assassination” and got away 
with it because Harp is a black woman. Elicker 
employed the “stereotype of the corrupt black 
mayor,” Taubes asserts. “He turned her into a 
caricature.” When Taubes speaks of Harp he 
seems to be in awe. He describes her prodigious 
knowledge of policy and how she tries to hide that 
knowledge so as not to alienate voters. “She could 
be on Ezra Klein’s podcast,” Taubes says. “It’s why 
she gets so much done. She’s a policy wonk, 100 
percent.”

I asked Morrison, at her desk at City Hall, if 
Elicker had attacked Harp’s character unfairly. 
“Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes,” she said. She wore a jean 
jacket and hoop earring, and she swatted at a 
mosquito while we talked. Elicker “definitely” 
treated Harp differently because she is a black 
woman, Morrison said. She claimed that Elicker 
wouldn’t accuse a white man of corruption and 
mismanagement without solid evidence.

Harp supporters don’t mention that her campaign 
used plenty of attack ads, too. One flyer compared 
Elicker to President Trump, accusing both of 
“overconfidence and incompetence.” A television 
ad warned that Elicker planned to use drones 
to spy on New Haven residents. Harp’s former 
campaign manager, Ed Corey, even claimed that 
Elicker’s wife, Natalie, used her influence as an 
assistant U.S. attorney to have the FBI subpoena 
the Harp administration. Harp’s campaign called 
it a “political hit job.” Later, on a WNPR radio 
show, Harp admitted that her campaign’s attack 
on Natalie Elicker was “ill-advised ”and promised 
not to target Elicker’s family again.

Elicker and his campaign “started putting all 
this doubt in the minds of people, and so a lot of 
people just didn’t come out and vote,” Morrison 
said. She claimed that Harp isn’t corrupt. “She’s 
made mistakes,” Morrison said. “But she’s human; 
she’s supposed to make mistakes.”


Back at Elks Lodge, Harp approaches a group of 
reporters for a statement. One reporter asks about 
her prospects for reelection. “If people want to 
vote for me they certainly can,” she says, almost 
defiantly. “If you want me to be your mayor you’ve 
got to vote for me. I’ve done my job.”

The tables are almost full, and people eat 
fruit salad and meatballs from disposable plates. 
At every seat is a flier. “The People’s Campaign 
to Re-Elect Toni Harp,” each reads, alongside a 
photo of Harp at her desk. “Vote November 5.”

Emma Jones, a prominent activist who fought 
for New Haven’s recently established Civilian 
Review Board, is here at Elks Lodge. She is the 
mother of Malik Jones, a young black man who 
was shot and killed by an East Haven police officer 
in 1997. After Harp’s primary loss, she and Taubes 
created the People’s Campaign for Toni Harp, a 
group of Harp supporters devoted to getting her 
reelected in November. As of October 12, its 
Facebook page had 308 members. Most of the 
posts are ebullient stories about what Mayor Harp 
has accomplished. One post, by Taubes, reads: 
“You Got The Lies. Now For The Truth,” along 
with a list of Harp’s accomplishments. Taubes told 
me that the group organizes phone banking and 
door-to-door canvassing. “We don’t have money,” 
he said, “but we want to let [Mayor Harp] know 
that you don’t need money if you have people.”




**Title: Toni Harp: A Legacy in New Haven**
**Author: Eli Mennerick**
**Page number(s): 25-26**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
OCTOBER 2019
 25
Jones spoke to me with passion, and she 
emphasized her points by pounding one fist 
into her open hand. Harp was blamed for things 
that white mayors weren’t, she said—like lead 
poisoning, which has been a problem for decades. 
“I don’t like it, and I have an obligation and a 
responsibility to stand up and say, ‘No. That’s not 
right,’” Jones said. The People’s Campaign fulfills 
that obligation. “I want to educate people, so that 
people have the real truth,” she said. “Let’s talk 
about this woman’s record.”
“Do you know how big it is that we don’t have to 
wake up and see there’s been another shooting in 
a high school community?” Jones added.

She was talking about YouthStat, a program 
designed to intervene with young people who are 
at risk of dying from gang violence. According 
to the CT Mirror, at least two young people 
were shot down on the streets within Harp’s first 
hundred days as mayor. So Harp brought together 
superintendents, principals, police officers, fire 
chiefs, and other professionals. They came up with 
criteria—grades, graduation, attendance, criminal 
history—for identifying the kids who were most at 
risk. Then they developed an electronic system to 
allow parents, social workers, teachers, and other 
adults to coordinate with each other to help the 
kids stay engaged in school. The resulting program 
was YouthStat, and since its creation in 2014, Harp 
told me, “We haven’t lost a kid.”

Harp seems torn about letting go. She told me 
she stayed on the ballot because she wanted to 
honor the Working Families Party’s nomination 
and give people another chance to vote for her. 
“So many people who said they didn’t vote in 
September thought that the real election was in 
November,” she said. “So I wanted them to have 
an opportunity to either vote for me or vote for my 
opponent.”

But if she wants to give voters another chance, 
why not actively campaign? Her voice gained 
momentum as she told me that Elicker’s primary 
run was full of malice and viciousness. She didn’t 
want to go through more of it.
“He smeared me, smeared my administration—
the people who work hard on behalf of the people 
of New Haven every day—and it was undeserved,” 
she said. “I wasn’t going to be a part of allowing 
that to continue.”

Harp didn’t say that Elicker ran a racist or a 
sexist campaign. “I’m sure that men are attacked 
too,” she said. But she also said she had never 
seen anything in New Haven politics as vicious 
as Elicker’s campaign. “And I do happen to be 
a woman and an African-American, so I don’t 
know what his motive was, other than to win,” 
she said.
 Elicker’s campaign strategy seems to have 
worked. Sure, Harp doesn’t want to put herself 
through another round of his attacks. But maybe 
it’s also true that Harp won’t campaign because 
a part of her knows it won’t change the results of 
the general. Has she already let go?

Many of Harp’s supporters say they’re 
uncertain what would happen to New Haven 
without Harp as mayor. I asked Morrison how 
the city might change: “That is the biggest 
question that I have,” she said. She praised Harp 
for supporting the new Q House, a community 
center in Dixwell that opened in 1924 and shut 
down in 2003. Harp helped secure funding for 
a reopening of the center in 2020. “I am just so 
thankful to Mayor Harp for making Dixwell a 
priority,” Morrison said.

And Shaleah Williams, the YouthStat program 
coordinator, claimed that YouthStat was possible 
only because of Harp. “YouthStat is her baby, so 
to speak,” she said. She told me about a student 
who was disengaged from school because he 
needed glasses but didn’t have the means to 
get them. At a meeting, the school nurse told 
officials about the student’s situation. YouthStat 
assigned him a case manager, who spent almost 
“He smeared me, smeared 
my administration—the 
people who work hard on 
behalf of the people of 
New Haven every day—and 
it was undeserved.”


--- Page 26 ---

 26
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
two months helping him. The case manager took 
him to an eye doctor, got a prescription, and let 
him choose his frames. After that, Williams said, 
the student engaged more in school, and his 
grades improved.

Williams, like Morrison, is apprehensive 
about the prospect of Harp’s departure. Harp 
“understands the youth in this city and what’s 
necessary to help them along,” Williams said. She 
worries that new mayors won’t “have the heart that 
she does.”

This might be Harp’s last term as mayor, but 
YouthStat and the Q House will outlast her. And 
maybe it’s some consolation to her supporters 
that institutions like these will live on as proof of 
Harp’s time in this city.

But what will Harp do if she isn’t mayor next 
term? She’s not quite sure. “I may do some of what 
you’re doing,” she told me. “I may write—memoirs 
or something—and it may be helpful to people.”

Harp seemed surprised—or maybe relieved—
when I brought up her free time. She talked 
faster, unburdened by the thought of how her 
words might be used against her. I asked if she 
saw her children much. “My daughter lives with 
me, so I see her every day.” She laughed, one of 
the few times in our interview. “And that’s my first 
grandchild right there. He just turned a year and 
a half.” She pointed to a photograph on her office 
wall.

On Sundays she goes to Center Church on the 
Green with her daughters. She’s a member of 
groups that help “the city’s neediest.” She has two 
dogs, Ella and Cece, and she plays with them in 
her backyard twice a day. “So, you know, I have 
things to do with my time,” she said. And she 
laughed again, briefly.
– Eli Mennerick is a junior in 
Ezra Stiles College.


**Title: Mara Hoplamazian: The Challenger**
**Page number(s): 27**

 27
C O V E R
MARA HOPLAMAZIAN
THE CHALLENGER
A 
few decades before Justin Elicker 
decided to run for mayor of New Haven, 
he stole a shopping cart. “I don’t know 
what we were thinking, but we stole a shopping 
cart and threw it in the woods,” he told me. 
Elicker remembers lifting the grocery-store 
staple as a singular moment of rebellion in his 
sheltered young life in the wealthy suburb of New 
Canaan, Connecticut. “It was really exhilarating,” 
he reflected, smiling sheepishly. “I still feel bad 
about it.” 
Elicker came of age in a community that 
regularly tops the charts for highest median 
family income in the United States. Just a forty-
five minute drive from New Haven, New Canaan 
is 95 percent white and looks strikingly different 
from the majority-minority city he’s hoping to 
run. “It was in one way very wholesome,” Elicker 
told me, “and in another way, devoid of a lot of 
the realities of the world.” Before moving to New 
Haven, he attended Middlebury College, then 
taught English in Taiwan, worked as a Foreign 
Service Officer in the U.S. State Department, 
and taught elementary school, high school, and 
college in Connecticut. He moved to New Haven 
in 2007 to attend Yale’s School of Forestry and the 
School of Management, and graduated in 2010. 
Now, nine years after graduating, he lives with his 
wife, Natalie, and their two kids on the top floor of 
a three-family house on Orange Street.

After outgrowing his days of snatching shopping-
carts, Elicker ran for mayor of New Haven 
for the first time in 2013, when he was 37 years 
old. He’d lived in New Haven for six years, and 
served as alder for the East Rock and Cedar Hill 
neighborhoods for four. His platform centered 
around “fresh solutions,” which he posted one by 
one for seventy-five days on his campaign website. 
The solutions touched on everything from police 
reform to vocational training programs to the 
bureaucracy of the preschool enrollment process. 
Hartford Courant reporter David Holihan wrote 
that he ran as “New Haven’s equivalent of Bernie 
Sanders, only younger and with better hair.” 
He had big plans and not much experience. His 
relationship to the city was shaped by his time at 
Yale, and some constituents seemed to feel that 
he hadn’t spent time in the neighborhoods he was 
hoping to represent. The unions staunchly backed 
his opponent Toni Harp, a fellow Yale graduate 
and a popular state senator. At one debate, Paul 
Bass, editor of the New Haven Independent, asked 
Elicker how he would succeed as mayor with “no 
appreciable support” from people of color in the 
city. 

In the 2013 election, his supporters looked very 
much like the people he’d grown up around: most 
of the 23 percent of the votes he accumulated in 
the Democratic primary came from the affluent, 
predominantly white neighborhoods of East Rock 
and Westville. After his loss in the primary, he ran 
With the mayor’s office in sight, Justin Elicker works 
to win New Haven’s trust.



**Title: The New Mayor of New Haven**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 28
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
as an independent in the general election against 
Harp. She became the first woman to be mayor of 
New Haven; he went back to the drawing board.
Elicker’s 2019 campaign wasn’t entirely a 
departure from his campaign in 2013; both were 
grassroots-based and issues-centered. Each time, 
he emphasized his commitment to taking only 
donations that fell within the limit set by the 
Democracy Fund, New Haven’s public financing 
system ($370 in 2013 and $390 in 2019). But on 
the night of the 2019 primary election, something 
was different. An underdog from the beginning, 
Elicker won with 2,048 votes more than Harp. 
In 2013 he won in just seven wards, five of which 
included East Rock, downtown, and Yale’s campus. 
This year, he took fifteen. Though predominantly 
white neighborhoods remained a large portion of 
his support, New Haveners from all corners of the 
city turned out to vote for Elicker. At debates he 
received enthusiastic cheers. The city celebrated 
him. So what changed?
*
On a Monday night in the middle of September, 
one week after he’d come out on top of the 
Democratic primary that many doubted he’d win, 
Elicker threw a “campaign kick-off.” The mood 
was both celebratory and expectant. Supporters 
and friends from across the city filled the back 
room of BAR, a pizza restaurant on Crown Street. 
Bro-hugs were exchanged and backs were slapped 
and kids were fed New Haven-style pizza. Gage 
Frank, Elicker’s campaign manager, took down 
names and emails as supporters filed in. Violet 
string lights gave the room an optimistic glow.

Many people at the campaign kickoff had 
voted for Harp in past elections, or had worked 
with her in different capacities throughout her 
terms. Criticism of Harp was at an all-time high 
following her cost-cutting relaxation of lead 
paint regulations, her involvement in hiring an 
unpopular superintendent, and accusations of 
corruption in her administration. Maria Tupper, 
an Elicker supporter in attendance, said, “As a 
woman, it’s hard for me not to support another 
woman.” But, as many of his supporters agreed, 
the city needed transformation, and Elicker 
promised change.

By the time speeches started, the room was 
full. Ties were loosened; tables were packed; and 
those without seats stood. State representatives for 
Connecticut shared the stage, each talking for a 
few moments about their support for Elicker to 
gentle applause. Then Urn Pendragon, a former 
mayoral candidate, took the floor. “Unity is more 
than a five-letter word,” she insisted, and received 
a lukewarm “woo.” When Elicker stepped up 
onto the table and grabbed the microphone, he 
thanked every speaker. The crowd roared for each 
name. Tables shook. Kids stomped their feet. 
Nearly a week after the event, when I walked 
into Elicker’s campaign headquarters on the first 
cold day of September, the room was quiet. It 
was the first floor of a small building on Whalley 
Avenue, nestled between an auto body shop and a 
hair salon. The bricks were painted daffodil yellow. 
On the walls, butcher paper hung underneath a 
question: “What are your hopes for New Haven?” 
“Equity in all schools for all kids,” one message 
written in block letters insisted. “Let’s start with 
honesty and transparency,” suggested another. 
“Police accountability” huddled next to a large “Tax 
Yale,” with “I second that” and “So do I!” written 
carefully in faded green marker underneath. The 
WiFi password, NewLeadership2019, was pasted 
on each wall, along with a sign denoting how many 
shifts campaign volunteers and staff had taken for 
the week. “Justin: 18” was at the top of the most 
recent one. The only person who completed more 
shifts—his campaign manager, Gage—did so only 
by one. 

Kevin Alvarez, Elicker’s field manager, greeted 
me with a warm smile as I walked into campaign 
headquarters. I recognized him as the “Kevin” 
from Elicker’s encouragements to “email Kevin” 
in the videos that he posts on Facebook, Beto 
O’Rourke-style, shot from the front-facing camera 
on his iPhone. Like Beto, Elicker demonstrates 
his fluency in Spanish in the videos—a skill he 
has mobilized to mixed responses while debating 
and knocking on doors throughout his campaign. 
In the same tradition as Beto’s performance at the 
first presidential debate, Elicker’s willingness to 
speak in Spanish could be interpreted as a sign that 
he’s focused on communication and accessibility 
in governance—or, to some ears, it could ring as 
inauthentic.

One of the successes of Elicker’s 2019 campaign 
is the variety of ways he’s created relationships with 
voters. He engages with millennials online and 
with the elders of his city on their front porches. 
And his willingness to reveal his personality in his 
public presence shows—from his SoundCloud 
cover of The Rainbow Connection in the style 
of Kermit the Frog, to his storied Justin Bieber 
impression the Independent deemed “credible,” 
to the way he gives out his phone number freely 
online and in speeches.

Elicker wore his signature cornflower-blue 
shirt and held a Klean Kanteen gingerly with 
both hands as we spoke. He had a bad cold, but 
he talked through it in a soft and serious way, 
stopping when a story he told made him chuckle. 
I asked him why he would be the best person 
to be mayor. “I don’t think I’m the best person. 
Barack Obama would be better than me,” he said 
solemnly. (Many supporters applaud his humility.) 
He believes that the knowledge he’s gained over 
the past five years as executive director of the New 
Haven Land Trust and the perspective he’s gained 
from living in New Haven for more than a decade 
will set him up for success. 

Elicker took leadership of the Land Trust, a 
non-profit organization focused on local land 
stewardship and environmental education, in 
February 2014. Around that time, an embezzlement 
scandal involving Elicker’s predecessor racked 
the organization. Elicker moved the Land Trust 
forward,  spearheading a youth jobs training 
program, revitalizing Schooner Camp, and 
championing a series of community gardens—
which, five years later, are going strong.

While sharing a beer with her wife at Elicker’s 
campaign kickoff, Sally Esposito, a former 
educator who has watched the Land Trust evolve 
under Elicker’s leadership, told me that Elicker 
has gotten to know the city through his work in 
community gardens. She recalled watching him 
turn the Land Trust’s struggling finances around 
and shift it from an organization focused on wealthy 
neighborhoods into one that served her neighbors 
in Fair Haven who needed more help. She saw 
Elicker get his hands dirty in gardens across New 
Haven, growing familiar with neighborhoods he 
hadn’t spent much time in before. 

“I never knocked on doors in East Rock,” Elicker 
said about his most recent campaign. “I knocked 
on doors everywhere else in the city.” He found 
the process fulfilling, and it changed the way he 
campaigned. “It’s interesting how many things 
come up over and over and over again on the 
doors,” he said, mentioning affordable housing 
and free after-school programs as common topics 
of concern. The focus of his campaign shifted 
substantially from the neighborhoods that had 
supported him in 2013 to the neighborhoods he felt 
needed more attention, but his closest supporters 
remained committed—Elicker didn’t spend his 
canvassing time near his home, but he attended 
fundraisers in East Rock, and stayed close to his 
friends and supporters there. 

At the Land Trust, more than any place else, 
Elicker learned how to lead with his ears first. 
“It’s really important to not just show up, even 
if you’re pretty sure it’s the right thing to do, not 
just show up and tell people ‘we gotta do this,’ but 
to listen, and engage, and build trust,” he said. 
Elicker looked up at the ceiling quizzically while 
we talked, as if he were presently absorbed in the 
process of figuring out how he felt and what he 
should do. He repeated this gesture many times 
throughout our conversation, especially while 
reflecting on his relationship with one community 
gardener in particular, Alonzo Bryan. 

Bryan (whom Elicker calls “Mr. Alonzo”) 
tended a community garden on Hazel Street in 
Newhallville, for which he’d been caring alone for 
a couple of years. When the Land Trust approached 
him to ask if other Newhalville residents could 
garden in the plot, Bryan felt frustrated. “And 
it was fair for him not to be happy about that,” 
Elicker said, gazing upwards. But Elicker, no 
stranger to distrust, was persistent. He felt that 
the community in Newhallville should have an 
opportunity to cultivate their own soil, and benefit 
from the harvest. “Over time, we developed a 
relationship with him,” he said. Then, recently, 
Bryan welcomed a woman and a group of young 
children to Hazel Street to garden alongside him. 
Another thing that Elicker learned from his work 
with Bryan is that time can be an ally. “Things 
take a lot of time. And sometimes time is all it 
takes,” he said. Time has been good to Elicker; 
the six years between his campaigns account for 
half of his time living in New Haven. Part of his 
recent success is tied to the roots he’s put down in 
those years. 

Elicker has worked in the past years to distance 
himself from Yale. But Elicker’s engagement 
with New Haven, like incumbent Toni Harp’s, 
has been shaped by his time as a Yale student. 
When I asked him about how he would tax Yale, 
he paused, then placed two fingers on the table 
between us, in parallel lines. “What’s important 
is exploring those options at the same time that 
you build a relationship,” he told me. “Like two 
business that are potentially collaborating, but 
potentially competitive.” He turned a searching 
gaze upward once again.




**Title: Elicker's Campaign**
**Author: Mara Hoplamazian**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
OCTOBER 2019
 31
Elicker has an instinct for collaboration. “The 
way I’ve learned how to make those decisions 
in life in general is to incorporate other people 
who I trust,” he said. “I don’t think one person 
is ever good at making all the best decisions.” 
Part of the shift in Elicker’s appeal from 2013 to 
2019 is that he surrounded himself with a more 
diverse campaign team. “It was important to get 
leadership from many different backgrounds to 
be visibly part of the campaign,” he said, “both to 
guide some decisions on the campaign, but also to 
show the city that our campaign was inclusive of 
many people, and prioritize that.” 


Elicker’s consciousness of the ways his whiteness 
has shaped his candidacy takes various forms. At 
worst, he seems prone to tokenizing the people 
around him. At best, his reflections encourage him 
to engage more humbly and more intentionally 
with the city. 


“My administration will be really accessible,” 
he said with a hopeful smile. “A lot of people want 
to be listened to and want to be heard.”


Elicker proved throughout the 2019 campaign 
his chameleonic skill of shifting tactics in order 
to meet the expectations of the city he hopes to 
govern. He recognizes his blind spots. He pays 
attention to what New Haveners tell him they 
need, and incorporates their conversations into 
his platform. How he’ll transition into office, if 
elected, remains to be seen. “I think being mayor 
is a constant campaign,” Elicker told me. He’s 
been working to win the trust of New Haveners 
over the last six years; perhaps, come January, 
we’ll be seeing more front-facing iPhone videos 
and hearing more of his knocks on our doors. 
– Mara Hoplamazian is a senior in 
Grace Hopper College.


**Title: The Chubb Fellowship Presentation & Discussion**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 32**

 32
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
C h u b b 
Ad
the chubb fellowship · timothy dwight college · yale university 
presentation & discussion
Thursday, October 24, 2019 · 5:15 pm
Levinson Auditorium 
Yale Law School 
127 Wall Street, New Haven
Doors open for seating at 4:45 pm
Admission is free and open to the Yale  
Community and the General Public. 
No tickets are required.  
For questions:
email chubb.fellowship@yale.edu
or call (203) 376-7444. 
The Honorable
Rosa DeLauro
U.S. Representative for Connecticut’s Third Congressional District



**Title: Paula Hyman Memorial Lecture: America's Jewish Question**
**Page number(s): 33**

 33
america’s
jewish 
question
this lecture is made possible by the paula hyman memorial lecture fund and sponsored by the judaic studies program at yale university
p a u l a  h y m a n  m e m o r i a l  l e c t u r e
For information, please contact Renee Reed at (203) 432-0843 or renee.reed@yale.edu
judaicstudies.yale.edu
Lila Corwin Berman 
Professor, Department of History
Murray Friedman Chair of American Jewish History  
Director, Feinstein Center for American Jewish History
Temple University
Thursday, October 24  •  5:00 pm
Comparative Literature Library
Bingham Hall, 8th Floor  •  300 College Street  •  New Haven, CT
Reception to Follow
Lila Corwin Berman is Professor of History at Temple University, where she holds the Murray 
Friedman Chair of American Jewish History and directs the Feinstein Center for American Jewish History. 
She is author of Speaking of Jews: Rabbis, Intellectuals, and the Creation of an American Public Identity 
(California, 2009) and Metropolitan Jews: Politics, Race, and Religion in Postwar Detroit (Chicago, 2015), 
and she is completing a book called “The American Jewish Philanthropic Complex: The History of a 
Multi-Billion Dollar Institution.” Her articles have appeared in many publications, including the American 
Historical Review, Journal of American History, AJS Review, Jewish Social Studies, American Jewish History, 
Religion and American Culture, the Washington Post, and the Forward. Berman received her Ph.D. from 
Yale, where she worked with Paula Hyman and Jon Butler.

