Publication date: November 2002
Volume: 35
Issue number: 3


**MASTHEAD**
- Publisher: Eric Rutkow
- Editor-in-Chief: Daniel Kurtz-Phelan
- Managing Editors: Jessica Chahm, Matthew Underwood
- Designer: David Barthwell
- Production Manager: Flora Lichtman
- Business Manager: Michael Gill
- Photography Editor: Santiago Mostyn
- Associate Editors: Jacob Blecher, Clinton Carroll
- Associate Designer: Jessica Chang
- Research Director: Kathryn Malizia
- Web Editor: Michael Addis
- Circulation and Subscriptions Managers: Matthew Paltin, Victoria Truschke
- Staff: Paige Austin • Sushma Gandhi • Helen Phillips • Patricia Pitts • Sophie Rowan • Nadia Silverman • Ellen Thompson
- Members: Emily Budon • Joshua Civin • Peter B. Cooper • Tom Grigg • Anya Kamenetz • Brooks Kelley • Jennifer Pins • Henry Schwab • Elizabeth Sledge • Fred Strebeigh • Thomas Strong
- Alumni: Richard Blow • Jay Carney • Richard Conniff • Ruth Conniff • Elisha Cooper • Julia Preston • Lauren Rabin • Steven Weisman • Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Sue Ballou • A.M. Beattie, Jr. • Bruce Bauguess • Edward B. Bennett, Jr. • Edward B. Bennett III • Paul S. Bernucca • Gerald Brandt • Barbara Budd • Harry Carney • Odette C.  • John Conn • Jonathan M.  • C.J. Clement • Elisha Cooper • Peter B. Cooper • Andy Court • Jay and Rae Court • Morris Dees • Albert J. Faus • Mrs. Howard Fe •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  Sophronia Hallman • Jane Iannelli • Brooks Kelley • Roop Kilwood • Andrew J. Kumagai, Jr. • Lewis E.  •  •  •  •  •  E. Nobles  • Hank Magidson • Martha E. Neill • Scott Neill • Howard Newcomb • Sue O’Brien • Joshua Penn • Lewis and Joan Platt • Josh Plow • Julia Preston • Ursula Rabin • Francis C.  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  Madison Riddle • Nicholas X. Rizopoulos • Sean Rohrer • Meaghan and Arthur Sapp • David and Deborah Scanlon • Richard Studdert • W. Hampton Sides • Lisa  • Elizabeth and William Sledge • Thomas Sone • Elizabeth Tate • Al and Henry Todd • Melissa  • Ada and Sarah Wardall • Daniel Yergin and Angela Sum Yergin


**Title: The Fat Trap**
**Author: Jessica Cohen**
**Page number(s): 10**

Could a simple after-school program be the answer to a national epidemic?


**Title: Black and Blue**
**Author: Matthew Underwood**
**Page number(s): 16**

How David Lee stands still to conquer.


**Title: Bonfire of the Vanities**
**Author: Paige Austin**
**Page number(s): 24**

Two renegade aldermen clash with the Mayor over development while Fair Haven burns.




**Framing Sacco and Vanzetti**
**Author: Neil Thomas Proto**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
ONE PALL DAY IN 1971, Neil Thomas Proto 
had an epiphany. It wasn't about God, or 
Vietnam, or flower power, or love. For the 
George Washington University law stu-
dent, studying the execution of two Italian-
American shopkeepers for robbery and 
murder in a Boston prison on August 23, 
1927, was an awakening. Proto recalls hear-
ing a few conversations about the case in a 
class and going to see a recently released 
film on the subject (the one with the Joan 
Baez soundtrack, he fondly remembers 
these days). Then he just knew: Nicola 
Sacco and Bartolomeo Vanzetti were about 
to change his life. When "Justice On Trial: 
Ben $hahn's Case For Sacco And Vanzetti," 
a collection of the modernist painrer's 
gouaches and tempera paintings accompa-
nied by historical photographs and film, 
opened at the Yale Art Gallery on October 
14 for a two month run, it was not only one 
of several events commemorating the 75TH 
anniversary of their deaths, but also the 
result of a one-man mission to bring Sacco 
and Vanz.etti to New Haven. 

When you talk to Proto, who tends to 
get hysterical when addressing the subject, 
it is hard not to feel like those dim memo-
ries from the annals of high school history 
are going to change your life as well. 
Though he now lives in Washington, DC, 
and works at a high profile law firm, Proto 
was born and raised in New Haven and still 
maintains a residence here. He has devoted 
the better part of his life to reading, study-
ing, and educating about the Sacco and 
Vanzetti case. In the process, he has con-
structed his own revisionist history of 
Sacco and Vanz.etti's story, become a collec-
tor of Sacco and Vanzetti-related folk 
music, and co-adapted an operetta-"The 
American Dream: The Story Of Sacco And 
Vanzerri" -which debuted at New Haven's 
own Shubert Theater this April. 

After that fateful day in 1971 when he 
first realized the spiritual, philosophical, 
and historical significance of the case, 
Proto hit the books. For the next two years, 
it got "a little intense." He spent months 
studying the eight volumes of transcripts 
and reading every work he could find on 
the execution. Finally, in 1996, Proto began 
4 
his magnum opus, a manifesto published 
in Italian Am~rica, the magal.ine of the 
national Sons of Italy, on the significance of 
the trial. But after publishing a second arti-
cle in 1997 for the 70TH anniversary of 
Sacco and Vanzetti's execution, Proto had a 
second epiphany: that the message was not 
getting out. So, after 27 years of devotion, 
he redoubled his efforts. "Why was this not 
talked about?" he remembered. "And what 
does it mean that it wasn't talked about?" 

Proto started talking to important 
people. He got on the phone with Mayor 
John DeStefano, Congresswoman Rosa 
DeLaura, and Yale Law School Dean 
Anthony Kronman to put together a sym-
posium that was the first phase in a mission 
to bring Sacco and Vanzetti to New Haven. 
He played on Yale's historic connections to 
the case--<:ountless articles in the Yak Law 
&vinu, petition drives by the YLS dean, and 
the advocacy of the Supreme Court Justice 
and then-Professor William L. Douglas-
and wasn't above drumming up a little 
Yale/Harvard rivalry over the issue either, 
like calling up the Mayor to suggest, "John, 
would you call the mayor of Boston to ask 
him what he is going to do to commemo-
rate the anniversary of Sacco and Vanzetti?" 

Slowly, he convened them to his idea of 
bringing Sacco and Vanz.etti to the city. 

Proto's crusade paid off. "I was just 
tickled," he recalls, "it was great fun, a 
merry experience." There were large 
turnouts at events like the gallery exhibit, 
the New Haven Colony Historical Society 
reading, and the "compose-your-own· 
Sacco-and-Vanzetti-folksong" 
evening 
sponsored by the Eli Whitney Folk Festival. 
Proto proudly remembers "a very bohemi· 
an crowd." And, the operetta played the 
Shubert to a sold-out crowd. 

If the exhibit's coming to New Haven 
started with Proto's epiphany, it is only 
appropriare: The art itself was the product 
of a full-blown religious experience. The 
painter Ben Shahn (a Jewish immigrant 
who arrived in the United States only two 
years before Sacco and Vanzetti) called his 
series of 32 modernist, distorted gouaches 
(8 of which are on display at che art gallery) 
and 2 tempera canvases "The Passion Of 
Sacco And Vanz.etti," in reference to the 
death of Jesus. Shahn explained his politi· 
cal art with an epiphany of his own: "Ever 
since I could remember, I'd wished thac I'd 
been lucky enough co be alive at a great 
time--when something big was going on, 
like the Crucifixion. And suddenly I real· 
ized I was. Here I was living through 
another Crucifixion. Here was something 
co paint!" 

For Proco, his own is as much a "great 
time" as that of Ben Shahn. "It's stunning 
how analogous it is to whac is going on 
today," 
he 
remarked. Although the 
THE NEW JouRNAL 


anniversary celebration was planned years 
in advance, the themes of anti-immigrant 
sentiment and criminal justice seem espe-
cially pertinent-a connection which 
exhibit curator Robin Jaffee Frank did not 
hesitate to acknowledge. Perhaps the year-
long commemoration is unlikely co inspire 
miracles. But did it change Neil Proto's life? 
·~solucely." 
-Sara Hirschhorn


**Mussel Man**
**Author: Meredith Angelson**
**Page number(s): 5**

AT Tl-IE CORNER OF ELM AND HoWE, in the 
huddle of establishments famous for their 
quick eats and cheap drinks, something has 
changed. There is a strange new glow 
around Rudy's Bar & Grill. It might be the 
new neon signs in the window. It might be 
the:: sunlight reflecting off the new sliver 
furniture outside. Ic might be the blinding 
whiteness of the "Belgian Frites" banner 
above the door against the crusty sienna 
bricks of the wall. One can't quite be sure. 
The ineffable magnetism which surrounds 
the dimly lie and cozily grimy dive draws 
you in to press your nose and grubby fin-
gers against the window and peer in with 
the wonderment of a child at the window 
of a toy store on Christmas Eve; or more 
poignantly, a college student at the window 
of a bar on a midweek afternoon. 

You cannot have failed to realize last 
year's addition of Belgian frites to Rudy's 
menu. Even if you've never tasted them (for 
shame!) the legend of their succulence and 
superioricy to any fry you've ever tasted has 
surely wafted down Elm Street and piqued 
your interest and your appetite. You may 
even have heard of the man behind the 
myth, Orner Ipek, known to those less inti-
mately acquainted with him as "the frites 
guy." Ipek, a Belgian native who came to 
the United States three years ago, started 
worlcing at Rudy's a year ago. No mere fry 
jockey, he trained as a chef at the Cuisine 
Beige Enseignement lnternationale in 
Brussels. (He also, conveniently, has a 
degree in Economics.) While worlcing in 
New York at "Belgian Fries" fast food 
chain, he met former Rudy's owner 
Thomas Henniger. As the two discussed 
NO'VEMBER 2002 
Henniger's business, Ipek says, "I cold him 
it was a good idea to add Belgian fries to his 
menu, because in a bar you drink beer, and 
fries go along very well with that." Orner 
lpek is a wise man with good taste. 

He has imported from Belgium the 
most essential tool of his craft: the frites 
machine. "You can't find that lcind of 
machine here," he explains. Belgian frites 
friolators are more powerful than the 
machines typically used in fast food restau-
rants in the United States, and they are 
larger and have round frying baskets. 
"With round baskets, the heat moves all 
around the sides of the basket, which cooks 
the potatoes faster and makes them crispi-
er," Ipek says. The differences between 
Rudy's plump and juicy frites and 
McDonald's fries, parched and chewy by 
comparison, don't stop there. Ipek's fries are 
xoo% vegetarian, cooked in soybean oil, 
and his potatoes are carefully hand-picked 
and prepared. "I don't buy Idaho or some 
cheap potato. I try to get rhe right size: 70 
count potatoes"-that is, 70 potatoes per 
50 pounds of potatoes-"which have a bet-
ter taste for fries than Idaho." Ipek hand-
peels rhe potatoes and soaks them 
overnight. Each day he dries them out 
before he "blanches" them in the fryer for 
several minutes at a low temperature. He 
sets them aside for at least half an hour 
before cooking them a second time at a 
higher temperature until they are ready to 
serve. lpek then presents each customer 
with a silver funnel overflowing with fries, 
gently glistening with soybean oil amidst 
the folds of wax paper and crowned by a 
tiny plastic spear, plunged whimsically into 
a frire. He offers his customers over 20 dif-
ferent sauces with which to eat their frices, 
including Belgian Mayonnaise, Curry 
Ketchup, Thai Peanut Butter, Andalouse, 
Americaine, and his personal favorite, 
Samurai. He imports their ingredients 
from a Belgian sauce company because, he 
says, "In Belgium they are very fancy about 
sauces." We're pretty damn fancy in New 
Haven roo: Rudy's now goes through 6oo 
pounds of potaroes a week. 

Orner Ipek has certainly brought a 
great deal to this bar with his frites. Before 
their advent, few people realized chat 
Rudy's even had a menu. Now, thanks co 
Ipek's European sensibility and talent in the 
kitchen, Rudy's is becoming known as a 
place for meals and snacks, as well as qual-
ity brews, good conversation, and loud 
punk music. But the mystique of the frites 
cannot wholly account for Rudy's new 
appeal. Those neon signs in the window 
are new. The stretched bunting set up out-
side when the weather is warm welcomes 
customers to "Rudy's Bar & Grill" and 
invites them to relax Parisian cafe-style in 
the outdoor furniture. Perhaps one should 
not be surprised to learn that Ipek himself 
is responsible: He is the new owner. 

"When I came here, I started by work-
ing in the kitchen," he says. "Then I began 
to work behind the bar as well. Then it 
happened that Henniger and I made a 
business deal and now I am in charge of all 
this. I want to add mussels to the menu. In 
Belgium this is very famous. You serve 
mussels in a pot with fries on the side and 
you have your beer. It's very popular." 

Expect the mussel premiere in three 
months. Ipek is also planning to renovate 
the equipment behind the bar and the 
kitchen, which he says is "good for the 
fries, but when you want to expand the 
menu you need more facilities." 

So, with the imminent addition of 
mussels ro the menu and the decor taking a 
new vibrant turn, we can only expect more 
new facets to the once comfortably dingy 
face of Rudy's. Whatever comes out of the 
vision of the owner, patrons can rest 
assured that it will be as closely monitored 
and cared for as the frites. "When you own 
your own business," Ipek explains earnest-
ly, "you have to be always here to check the 
quality of the food. You have to make sure 
your fries are different from other fries. 
They have to have something special or no 
one would come to eat them." So far, Ipek 
has satisfied at least his own tastes with his 
creations. "I like them a lot," he says smil-
ing. "I am crazy about potatoes!" And New 
Haven is crazy about Orner Ipek. After all, ' 
he's put the 'N' back in Rudy's Restaura_t. 
-Muedith Angt:lson


**A Fashionable Cause**
**Author: Coco Krumme**
**Page number(s): 6**

LE6N, NICARAGUA IS PERHAPS the last place 
you'd expect to find a· pair. of colorblock 
Mickey Mouse shorts or, for that matter, 
tapered corduroy slacks. 
But Le6n, 
Nicaragua, is no stranger to such anachro-
nisms of taste and missteps of fashion. 

Each year the city receives more than 
r8,ooo pounds of clothing and material aid 
from the residents of New Haven, all of it 
selected, sorted, packed, and shipped by 
members of the New Haven-Le6n Sister 
City Project. 

Packing the clothing, which is donat-
ed by local consignment stores, into boxes 
is a monumental triannual affair: The latest 
session cakes place on a dreary Friday that 
threatens to dump a week's worth of t:ain 
on a New Haven back porch covered in 
clothing bound for Nicaragua. At its epi-
center are five middle-aged women, all of 
them long-time Sister City volunteers. The 
packing is lively, punctuated at times with 
the conspiracy and subdued gossip of an 
afternoon bridge club or the negotiated 
push-and-pull of an urban flea market. Bur 
at its core it is governed by the supreme 
taste of five unabashed fashionistas. Patti, 
one of the quintet, holds up a brown flow-
ered skirt and matching headband. "That's 
cute!" another c:Xdaims. "But look, the 
headband is stained right here. It's insulting 
to send something dirty like that," some-
one else responds. A third asks: "We can't 
send the skirt without the headband. Can 
we?" 

The ladies do not take lightly their 
roles as guardians of good fashion sense. A 
first round of inspection expels all dirty or 
torn items, as well as winter clothing: pea-
coats and J. Crew sweaters would elicit 
only laughter i£ through some slight of 
judgment, they were to infiltrate the 
Central American heat. The second round 
is crucially important: Beyond the obvious 
rejects like stonewashed jeans and T-shirts 
bearing names of long-defunct sports 
teams, sorting through the heaps of cloth-
ing requires subtle discrimination. Should 
a wooly vest with short sleeves be sent? A 
size 14 white tennis dress? An unsightly pair 
of cargo shorts? Lingerie? 

In Le6n, where the clothing is sold by 
local residents for a nominal price in order 
to fund community projects, another 
round of selection awaits the boxes marked 
6 
'ropa hombres' and 'ropa mujeres.' Many of 
the members of the Sister Cities have visit-
ed Nicaragua and report that the women of 
Le6n are not eager to suffer the beige and 
gray staples of a New England wardrobe. 
Brenda recalls describing her cupcake 
Connecticut home to the women of Le6n: 
"They were astonished. They said, 'pink 
and blue! Why, those are the sad colors!'" 
Someone tsks: "The 'sad colors' ... imagine! 
When I was there, I went to a weaving 
workshop. They wanted to dye everything 
bright orange. They don't understand that 
no one here wants to buy a bright orange 
shirt." 

Clashes of culture and cotton notwith-
standing, the insatiable wheel of fashion 
keeps on turning: Garments made in 
Nicaraguan factories are peddled to trend 
setters by stores in the United States; reject-
ed items eventually stagnate in consign-
ment stores and charity trucks, then wax 
back to Nicaragua. The first material aid to 
reach Le6n arrived in the suitcases and 
knapsacks of a handful of New Haven resi-
dents, who carne with a 'Wimesses for 
Peace' group during the Contra War of the 
1980s. Their purpose then was to assist the 
people of Nicaragua without caking sides in 
the conflict. Almost two decades later, the 
war is over, but the motivating principle 
remains unchanged and The Sister City 
project has grown to include a bicycle 
exchange, a sustainable agriculture pro-
gram, frequent delegations to Nicaragua, 
and the establishment of a locally staffed 
office to manage the projects. 

On the New Haven side, the Le6n 
venture has struggled to maintain signifi-
cance in a decade without warfare. It is a 
question, as enunciated by director Jean 
Silk, of making sure the project's purpose 
remains relevant and well-defined. 

Purpose is indeed abundant at the 
box-packing session, and principled aid has 
by no means given way to arbitrary altru-
ism. Silk compares how Austrians pick 
their sister cities-"by taking maps and 
drawing concentric circles from each capi-
tal city" -to New Haven's technique-
forming a connection based on similarities 
between the two cities and the relationships 
that visitors formed and subsequent visitors 
continue to nurture. 

The story of the Sister Cities program 
is one of a group dedicated to a cause 
stripped of its political luster but rich in 
personal meaning. While other activists 
adopt sexy catch-phrases and campaigns 
for 'social justice' or 'an end to all war,' the 
Sister City project measures its success not 
by how loudly it raises its voice but with 
hard, material evidence: the number ofT-
shirts packed, wells built, bicycles shipped. 

Many of the members have committed 
months or even years to establishing func-
tional civic projects in Le6n. Theirs is a 
brute materialism taken to a philanthropic 
extreme. 

The political statement endures with-
out being gaudy, and the fashion statement 
is clear: New Haven is dressing the resi-
dents of its sister city, and dressing them 
well. 
-Coco Krumme


**Card Catalog Cartel**
**Author: Steve Bernstein**

STEVE BERNSTEIN, a cataloguer at Sterling 
Memorial Library, sees in his job a lofty 
purpose: "mapping the collective subcon-



**Preserving Disappearing Materials: The Work of Yale's Third World Librarians**
**Author: Lea Oksman**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
scious of humanity." That includes, among 
other things, shelving full sets of Buffy the 
Vampire Slayer books and multitudes of 
vanity press publications. But nowhere is 
Bernstein's description of a librarian's work 
more accurate, and its implications more 
meaningful, than in the library's collections 
ofThird World literature. 

For a librarian, every newspaper 
padding a garbage can is endangered litera-
ture. African collection curator Dorothy 
Woodson, for example, collects newspapers 
in over 500 African languages and puts on 
microfilm those too old to travel. With the 
steadfast goal of "preserving disappearing 
materials," she avidly collects what is 
known in the library world as ephemera. 
This includes posters, albums of non-pro-
fessional photos of South African and 
Zimbabwean ruins, stamps, pictures, and a 
rare treasure: a letter from Cecil Rhodes to 
his personal accountant. Africa's civil wars, 
with their way of tossing editors in and out 
of prison, make Woodson's work rather dif-
ficult. Yet she finds herself amazed at the 
"enormous amount of diverse scholarly 
materials." The books are thin and cheaply 
bound, made to be accessible to an often 
destitute readership--but, Woodson says, 
they are widely read nonetheless. 

Rich Richie, curator for the Southeast 
Asia collection, encounters a rather differ-
ent kind of ephemera. Aiming both to pre-
serve Cambodian printed materials and to 
bring copies of them to the West, the Yale 
Center for International Studies has recent-
ly helped establish a Cambodian Center of 
Documentation in Phnom Penh. There, 
Richie supervises the task of microfll.ming 
records from the Khmer Rouge for Yale's 
collections-quite a job, considering that 
there are no microfilm cameras in 
Cambodia, and reliable electricity can only 
be obtained from an imported generator. 
He describes the Center's Cambodian staff 
leafmg through records of Toulsleng, the 
regime's largest prison: Every so often 
someone would stumble upon the name of 
a family member, friend, or acquain-
tance--a concise record of death by 
starvation, unimaginable torture, or the 
brutal bareness of decade-long imprison-
ment. Richie also watches the documenters 
scanning the infamous "killing fields" for 
remnants of skeletons-a risky enterprise, 
since some of those places are still con-
trolled by Communist zealots. 

NOVEMBER 2002 
Buying books can be just as interest-
ing. Richie describes with gusto open-air 
markets, where books are sold next to veg-
etables and household items. In Cambodia, 
the curator's place to be is the central 
Phnom Penh marketplace; in Thailand, 
large modern bookstores are common; in 
Laos, curators go to the government pub-
lishing office, the only one in the country. 
The books themselves are no less diverse. 
From comics (an important tool of govern-
ment propaganda) to modern reinterpreta-
tions of religious "literature and folktales, 
they tend to be published in tiny runs-
twenty-five copies is not rare-which can 
be taxing for the curator charged with 
keeping America's oldest collection of 
Southeast Asian literarure complete. 

Sometimes books are not published at 
all. Following a wave of student uprisings 
over a decade ago, Burma's universities have 
been closed, and academic publishing pro-
hibited. Richie resorts to collecting popular 
magazines published on newsprint, with 
black-and-white pictures. Occasionally he 
does get other texts at the out-of-print mar-
ket; but in doing so, he risks accidentally 
buying materials stolen from the country's 
National Archives-"people need the 
money," as he puts it. 

Cesar Rodriguez, curator for the 
library's Latin American collection, finds 
an "excellent" source of materials, particu-
larly on economics and human rights, in 
non-governmental organizations (NGOs). 
Those sprang up, he says, like mushrooms 
after the rain following the political tur-
moil that plagued much of Latin America 
through the 1980s. But most NGOS are 
funded by US and European institutions 
looking to promote Western ideals, an affil-
iation which can become problematic. 
Rodriguez, for example, "knew [he] was 
being followed" in Cuba while smuggling 
not-for-export books through the Swiss 
agency. Yet he managed to sneak out, on 
his person, flyers published by the Cuban 
statistics office containing figures on litera-
cy and poverty rates-by hiding them in a 
volume of Fidel Castro's speeches. 
-Lea Oksman


**Stairway to Heaven**
**Author: Tara O'Donovan**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

ST. MARY's CHURCH TOWERS high above 
Hillhouse Avenue. Inside are vaulted ceil-
ings, pastel walls, and lifelike statues, but 
the church is most notable for being the 
only building on Hillhouse not owned by 
Yale. When it was built in 1874, however, 
St. Mary's was even more out of place: It 
was surrounded by extravagant private 
mansions, whose wealthy residents looked 
on in horror when the cash-strapped 
Roman Catholic Church ran out of funds 
as the building neared completion-leav-
ing it without a steeple--and poor immi-
grants began to flock to the spireless edi-
fice, "constructed of stone which gives it a 
cold and repulsive appearance." An 1879 
article about Hillhouse Avenue-described 
by Charles Dickens as the most beautiful 
street in America-in The New York Times 
carried the snide subtitle, "How an aristo-
cratic avenue was blemished by a Roman 
Church edifice." 

Fortunately for St. Mary's, this less 
than flattering coverage did not determine 
its resting place in history. Just a few years 
after its opening, one of the parish's young 
priests, Father Michael McGivney, founded 
an organization to unite the men of the 
parish. He hoped to offer an alternative to 
secret societies, a popular outlet for young, 
lonely immigrant males who found them-
selves in a hostile new environment. 

Instead of mysterious rituals and secret 
handshakes, McGivney wanted to create a 
fraternal organization that combined this 
sense of belonging with the values and 
charitable mission of the Catholic Church. 
In 1882, in the basement of St. Mary's, 
McGivney founded 
the Knights of 
Columbus, a "fraternal service organization 
of Catholic men." 

Today the organization has over a mil-
lion members in 13 countries. The support 
network that McGivney envisioned has 
expanded to even offer a life insurance plan 
to its members. The Knights of Columbus 
current headquarters-where the organiza-
tion's 750 employees manage its insurance 
company and other worldly affairs-sits 
across town from St. Mary's. By espousing 
the doctrines of faith, fraternity, and life 
insurance, the Knights of Columbus seems 
to have access to both the pocketbooks and 
the willing volunteerism of its members: 
They claim to have donated nearly a billion 
dollars and 400 million hours of service to 
charity. They also proudly describe them-
selves as "the strong right arm of the 
Catholic Church," and their political views 


--- Page 8 ---

always echo those of the Vatican. 

One of the Knights' charitable causes 
was a renovation of the roof of St. Mary's. 
In 1982, they set out to create "an architec-
tural exclamation point between heaven 
and earth": a 179-foot steeple topped with 
an eleven-foot gold cross. The crown jewel 
of the Knights' New Haven empire, how-
ever, is the two-year-old Knights of 
Columbus museum, a block from the New 
Haven train station. On most afternoons, 
the concrete building is quiet inside, but 
the front desk attendant is more than 
happy to orient visitors and describe the 
temporary exhibitions-at the moment, a 
display of Russian icons and a 9/11 memor-
ial. 

The bulk of the museum's content, of 
course, is dedicated to the fraternal order 
itself. The trophy room displays awards 
donated by national Knights of Columbus 
councils, an article about Babe Ruth estab-
lishing that the slugger himself was a 
Knight, and a letter signed by current 
Minnesota Governor Jesse Ventura pro-
claiming May 20, 2001, "Knights of 
Columbus Day." 

In the Christopher Columbus room, 
the Knights' patron is honored by displays 
ranging from a sugar bowl bearing his like-
ness to a late nineteenth century child's 
penny bank upon which the explorer sits. 
Father 
McGivney 
allegedly 
chose 
Columbus, a devout Catholic, as the 
Knights' patron with the intention of 
likening his Atlantic crossing to those of 
the organization's immigrant members. 

Another exhibit explains why members are 
known as Knights-a dramatic flair that is 
the legacy of James T. Mullen, the order's 
first lay leader. 

In the back of St. Mary's Church, 
behind the rows of wooden pews, stands a 
dark marble vault. The top of the structure 
is formed into a crucifix, and a plaque on 
its side explains its contents: When the 
Knights of Columbus gave St. Mary's 
Church a steeple in 1982, they also encased 
the remains of their founder, Father 
McGivney, in the church. In 2000, they 
also lobbied to nominate him for canoniza-
tion, the first official step to sainthood in 
the Catholic Church. If the Vatican 
declares him a saint, the Knights can rest 
assured that the soul of their founder 
8 
resides in heaven. Apparently, the Knights 
of Columbus provide not only life insur-
ance, but after-life insurance as well. 
-Tara O'Donovan


**Dance, Dance, Revolution**
**Author: Zivia Kriegel**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

ON OUR CAMPUS, amidst a crowd of 
chanting, writhing students, a silver-haired 
octogenarian executes a series of martial-
arts kicks with the easy grace of a twenty-
five-year-old. I stand entranced by the 
spectacle before me. The student at my 
side, noting the look of awe on my face, 
mouths one word: capoeira. 

At the time, I thought that I had dis-
covered a new art form, something I could 
only explain as a mix between Kung Fu and 
break-dancing. But soon it seemed that 
everywhere I turned, someone knew some-
one who did capoeira. And it seemed that 
everyone who did it knew my silver-haired 
octogenarian, Professor Robert Thompson, 
aka Master T. 

Later that week, I met Master T in the 
Timothy Dwight dining hall, where it soon 
became clear that, given the opportunity, 
he could talk endlessly about almost any-
thing. All I had to do was utter the word 
"capoeira" to send him on a cultural jour-
ney back to Brazil, where African slaves 
developed the martial art as a secret form of 
rebellion. The words tumbled from his 
mouth so quickly that without the help of 
the TA eating next to me, I would have been 
completely lost. Not that Master T would 
have noticed. He seemed more intent on 
keeping himself entertained than helping 
me understand the popularity of capoeira 
at Yale. 

In twenty whirlwind minutes, he 
described the appearance of capoeira in the 
1980s in New York, when a lot of culture-starved 
yuppies mixed with the 70,000 Brazilians 
newly immigrated to the city. "Centers just 
shot up," he explained and jumped out of 
his chair. "Boom! Boom! Boom!" -the 
sound of capoeira exploding across New 
York City. 

Despite capoeira's recent resurgence, 
Thompson admits that today's movement 
does not hold a candle to its peak of popu-
larity in the 1980s when it inspired "some 
jerky B-movies." But, at least to him, its 
continued popularity is not surprising: "In 
what other activity can you defend your-
self, dance, sing in a romance language, and 
be healthy? It's a total physical experience." 

And without another word, he bounded 
out of the dining hall with the TA following 
close behind. 

Still mystified by capoeira's mass 
appeal, I visited a class taught at a church 
near Olive Street. No one seemed to notice 
my presence as I studied the walls plastered 
in photos of capoeira mestres. Housewives, 
businessmen, and construction workers in 
various contortionist stretches were scat-
tered across the studio's hardwood floor. 
Their loose white uniforms were reminis-
cent of karate, but more casual-a fitting 
characterization for capoeira in general. 

The silent concentration of the stu-
dents was broken by a belly laugh from 
behind the studio wall. Efraim Silva 
entered the room, greeting his flock with a 
warm smile and a sadistic call for even 
deeper stretches. Silva, the self-proclaimed 
"embodiment of capoeira" in New Haven, 
opened the city's first studio, Gina 
Brasileira Inc., eight years ago. Last year, he 
brought his class to Yale's Payne-Whitney 
Gym. "The first day of class, there were 
forty-one students," he recalled in a thick 
Brazilian accent. "We had to divide into 
two classes." 

With the studio full, Silva paced the 
floor, watching his students begin to put 
their own personalities into the movement, 
straddling the gap between martial art and 
dance. Occasionally, he picked up a jug-
like instrument attached to the base of an 
archery bow, which he played with a pick 
made of bean-filled maracas. 

As the class neared the two-hour mark, 
everyone gathered into a roda, or sparring 
circle. Here it all came together-the danc-
ing and fighting united in a seamless syn-
thesis of body and soul, rhythm and mind, 
as pair after pair faced off, at once partners 
and adversaries. 

Back on campus, Yale capoeiristas 
have their own theories about the popular-
ity of the martial art. Becca Falik sees it as 
a break from rigid classroom learning, a 
chance to experience "the wisdom of gener-
ations of capoeira sages that is passed down 
through the spiritual chain of master to 
student." Ja-Shukry says, "Yale students are 
just culture starved. All we really know is 
college culture, and in my opinion it wears 
thin and lacks true substance." Apparently, 
the intellectual stimulation and cultural 
diversity offered by one of the nation's top 
universities pales alongside the wisdom of 
sages. Never mind that this spiritually 
impoverished university offers courses in 
capoeira and has a faculty member who is 
an expert on the art. 
-Zivia Kriegel


**Could a simple after-school program be the answer to a national epidemic?**
**Author: Jessica Cohen**
**Page number(s): 11-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Could a simple after-school program 
be the anslNer to a national epide111ic? 
NOVEMBER 2002 
By .Jessica Cohen 
I uan Mendoza, a seventh grader at Fair 
U Haven Middle School, used to be fat. Like 
most overweight kids in middle school, he 
endured his share of taunting. But as much as it 
bothered him, he didn't know how to change his 
situation. "I used to just eat and not really care. I 
didn't know why I was eating what I was eating," 
he remembered. At the end of the school day, 
having skipped lunch and breakfast, Juan would 
hit the vending machines and stuff himself with 
unhealthy treats. On the way home local conve-
nience stores lured him in with the promise of his 
favorite snack: Doritos. At home Juan's family 
served him fried food; until last spring he had 
never even tried broccoli or cauliflower. 
But in the fall of 2001, all of that changed. 
For 16 weeks Juan and 20 of his peers participat-
ed in an after-school program designed by Dr. 
Margaret Grey, Assistant Dean of Research 
Affairs at Yale School of Nursing, and a team of 
colleagues. To Dr. Grey and her team, Juan is rep-
resentative of a national "epidemic of obesity" 
that has hit low-income and minority popula-
tions disproportionately hard. Though all of 
America is getting heavier as a result of reduced 
physical activity and poorer nutritional habits, 
socio-economic factors often determine who is 
most affected. It is a fact that the poorest people 
in this country are also the most overweight. 


In this regard, New Haven is a prototypical 
American city. Statistics highlight the gaping 
health discrepancies that exist nation-wide 
between upper- and middle-class citizens and 
inner-city dwellers. While approximately 16 per-
cent of American youth are obese, in New 
Haven, where 85 percent of students in public 
schools are either Mrican American or 
Hispanic, and the majority eat state-subsidized 
free lunches, the numbers hover between 45 
and 50 percent. 41 students participated in the 
16-week program at Fair Haven and Sheridan 
middle schools. All of them were considered 
clinically obese and all but one of them were 
either Mrican American or Hispanic. 
Yale psychology professor and obesity 
expert Kelly Brownell likens the weight crisis 
to the early days of the HIVIAios epidemic. 
"Obesity is somewhat like HIVI AIDS was in that 
it is a stigmatized problem and so despite its 
dire consequences the public is slower to 
respond," he explained. For the most part, 
poor people in America do not have access to 
healthy food, cannot afford physically active 
lifestyles, and live in communities where obe-
sity is commonplace. More troublesome, how-
ever, is the fact that obesity is the number one 
cause of Type 2 diabetes, one of the fastest 
growing diseases in America. In a statement 
issued last winter calling for changes in school 
lunch policies and the fast-food inaustry, 
Surgeon General David Satcher lamented, 
"The nation's obesity epidemic has gotten so 
bad it soon may overtake tobacco as the lead-
ing cause of preventable deaths." 


For Juan, the program presented an 
opportunity to improve his health, to stop 
being teased about his size, and to become an 
exception to the rule. A lot was at stake for Dr. 
Grey and her research team as well: If the pro-
gram, one of the first of its kind, could reverse 
trend~ towards obesity and, more imponandy, 
Type 2 diabetes in Juan and his peers, despite 
their home and school environments, then 
it could be a viable answer to a national 
problem. But success will depend on the 
program's ability to counter problems 
deeply engrained in American society. 
S
tatistically, Latino males between the 
ages of six and twelve like Juan have 
the highest incidence of childhood obesi-
ty-dinically defined by a ratio of height 
to weight above the 85th percentile. 
Childhood obesity has been linked to low 
self-esteem, altered body image, decreased 
preferences for physical activity, and 
depression. The most alarming problem, 
however, and the one that Dr. Grey is most 
worried about, is the direct connection to 
the early onset ofType 2 diabetes, a condi-
tion that impairs the body's ability to use 
insulin. As a result, fats and sugars are less 
effectively digested, causing high blood 
sugar levels. This can lead to reduced ener-
gy, high blood pressure, heart disease, and 
kidney disease. In 1980, only 2 percent of 
Type 2 diabetes cases occurred in children 
between the ages of nine and 19. Now that 
figure has jumped to between 40 and 50 
percent. The sharp rise in Type 2 diabetes 
in children is a troubling indicator of what 
is to come. "The problem here isn't only 
health related," explained Grey. "This 
health epidemic has huge societal implica-
tions. These kids will be suffering from 
complications in their 20s that we haven't 
generally seen until much later in life--and 
this doesn't have to be the case." But if the 
over-arching goals of Grey's course are of 
national significance, its classroom goals 
are surprisingly basic: nutrition, exercise, 
and coping skills. 


Juan remembers the beginning of the 
class as being extremely challenging. 
"Almost everything I learned was new and 
it was ha:rd to change the kind of food I 
ate." At the second session of the class, 'stu-
dents were asked to talk about the kinds of 
foods they consume and think of why they 
might choose those foods. While choosing 
foods based on taste, cost, and convenience· 
was familiar to the students, thinking 
about nutrition was not. High-sugar and 
high-fat foods are ubiquitous, regularly 
appearing in advertisements and promo-
tions, while messages about nutrition are 
more obscure. According to Brownell, "the 
economics of food are the reverse of what 
they should be. Unhealthy food is easy, 
cheap, everywhere, and tastes good." The 
students' diets at the beginning of the 
course reflected this. "Their diets were 
high-fat, high-carb and low-protein. They 
were drinking close to a liter of soda a day 
and didn't know that it was a problem," 
said Diane Berry, one of the primary 
researchers. 


During the first few weeks, the nutri-
tionist for the course, Pamela Galasso, tried 
to give the students tools and information 
that they could use when making choices 
about food. "I had to present them with a 
new way of talking to get them thinking 
about and actively participating in more 
meals," said Galasso. The approach Galasso 
used was holistic. Rather than focus on diet 
and weight-loss, she tried to emphasize 
small changes that students could make. 
She presented them with "culturally com-
petent" food guide pyramids that included 
foods that the students typically ate, such 
as rice and beans, and taught them some 
mnemonic devices to help them make deci-
sions about food. Among the devices were 
phrases like "DIET: Deprived Individuals 
Eat Too much"-a reminder not to skip 
meals-and "soDA: Stop Options Decide 
Act" -encouraging careful decision mak-
ing when choosing a beverage. Though 
these strategies may seem simple, for stu-
dents who didn't know that "four tennis 
balls" of rice was too much, they were wel-
come tools. Each week Juan made goals for 
the next week's class based on what he had 
learned: "Sometimes it was to add more 
vegetables or to eat some breakfast. I would 
try to eat less high fat food." The course 
gave Juan clear messages about food and 
nutrition-messages that were not often 
reinforced at home or at school. 


Unfortunately, processed, high-fat, 
and high-calorie food is just as prevalent in 
schools as it is in homes and stores. 
Students on subsidized school lunch pro-
grams do not have many options when 
choosing what to eat. School lunches, 
though fmanced by the government and 
required to meet certain standards, are 
often high in fat and light on fruits and 
vegetables. "The government policies are 
confused," explained Grey. "There are rules 
and regulations regarding school lunches. 
But in places like New Haven, where many 
of the meals are subsidized, the stuff they 
get free or cheap are the high fat choices." 



**Title: School's Out for Health**
**Author: Mica Cohn**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
In a recent study only 20 percent of schools 
met all the government's nutritional 
requirements. "Lots of times I didn't like 
the school lU.Qch," Juan said, "and so I 
would buy a soda or a candy bar or maybe 
both." Juan's decision to skip school meals 
and buy food from the vending machines 
was not unusual. "Lots of these kids are eat-
ing two meals a day at school. If the school 
lunch doesn't appeal to them, they turn to 
the vending machines. They have very lim-
ited healthy options," said Berry. Schools 
across the country have lined their hallways 
with candy-stocked vending machines and 
filled their cafeterias with a Ia caru fast-
food chains as a way to make money. 
Nationwide, vending machines account for 
approximately $750 million annually in 
extra funds for schools. The profits are sub-
stantial and help pay for additional pro-
grams and facilities, but they come at a 
high price. 

Many students in the class come from 
families and communities where obesity 
and diabetes have become standard. In 
order to break the cycle of obesity and its 
related health problems, the class had to 
address the larger context in which these 
children were living. Though the pro-
gram told the kids to eat more 
vegetables 
and 
more of 
"nature's candy"-fruit-
one look into a small 
inner-city 
grocery 
makes it clear that 
these things are not so 
easy for families to 
provide. "Many of the 
families have to take 
two buses to get to a 
good grocery store, and 
the stores nearby might 
have one or two sorry looking 
heads of iceberg lenuce to choose 
from," explained Grey. So one Sarurday 
morning Galasso gathered about a dozen 
students and mothers at a big grocery store 
nearby and showed them healthy and cost-
effective options. "I taught them how to 
use what was in season and showed them 
the nuts and bolts of reading food labels." 
Halfway through the program, 
the 
researchers found that parents had altered 
their shopping co include more healthy 
choices, which was something the parents 
~nributed to their children's participation 
m the program. Juan's family incorporated 
much of what he learned into their daily 
lives. "I would tell my family so that we 
could adjust what we were doing. My fam-
ily has cut down on sweets and fats and 
instead of frying foods they steam them." 
Everyone in his family lost weight, but 
Juan put it best when he said, "I think my 
family feels better." 

F
EWER THAN HALF of American school 
children have daily opportunities to 
engage in structured physical activity. At 
Fair Haven Middle School, Juan has gym 
only twice a week. He doesn't play sports, 
and he couldn't say whether there is a foot-
ball team or a basketball team at his school. 
Inner city schools often lack the time and 
space for effective physical education. 
Exercise was not part of the daily routine 
for many of the children enrolled in the 
after-school intervention program. 

The physical activity training part of 
the program did not demand that the stu-
dents engage in formal, rigorous exercise. 
Instead, it was designed to help students 
change their lifestyles. Berry explained the 
snategy: "We spent a lot of time talking 
about sedentary and non-sedentary 
activities and brainstorming 
ways to cut down on time 
spent sitting in front of 
the TV or computer 
and thinking of other 
things to do." By rein-
forcing the value of 
any kind of physical 
activity-be it actual 
exercise or just active 
behavior-the teachers 
hoped to help the sru-
dents modify their own 
environments. 

Physical activity was Juan's 
favorite part of the program: "I liked it best 
when we played outside and danced for a 
long time in the music room." During one 
class, the students were told that they were 
on the new Survivor series "Getting Back to 
Basics in Activity" and that they had to use 
three random props to design and perform 
a ten- to fifteen-minute routine. The props 
were everyday household items-<:anned 
goods, towels, chairs, as well as affordable 
items such as tennis balls, jump ropes, and 
basketballs. Through this process, the stu-
dents learned to create games and activities 
for themselves. Most often during the 
physical activity portion of the class, how-. 
ever, the students were simply asked to do 
something active, whether it was dancing 
to hip-hop CDS (everyone's favorite) or sim-
ply taking a walk with one of the exercise 
teachers. Many of the children whose 
neighborhoods do not have big parks to 
play in or community sports teams to play 
on had long ago given up on physical activ-
ity. "They see things as skinny or fat, couch 
potato or marathon runner, so we tried to 
introduce a middle ground," Grey said. 

H
IP-H,OP 
DANCE 
ROUTINES, forced 
acronyms, and weekly worksheets 
seem too simple to be a viable solution to a 
national health problem of such depth and 
scale. But these simple solutions may, in 
fact, be a foundation upon which to build 
a national response. After twelve months, 
nearly all of the students in the program 
had stabilized their glucose tolerance, and 
their insulin metabolism had improved. In 
addition, students' behaviors changed dra-
matically: They consumed fewer calories, 
had greater dietary knowledge, became 
more active and, perhaps most surprisingly, 
helped their families change their patterns 
of behavior, suggesting a "trickle down" 
effect ftom the school into the entire com-
munity. 

With the results confirmed, Dr. Grey 
and her research 
team 
have 
been 
approached by school systems across the 
country asking for advice and information 
abo'ut the program. While eager to share 
the information, Dr. Grey is also quick to 
explain that it was a pilot study and that 
the full-scale trial she is currently working 
on will provide more substantial and per-
haps more accurate answers. The next 
study will take place in four New Haven 
middle schools and will be incorporated 
into the regular school day. 

One of the driving beliefs behind the 
program is that schools are the perfect place 
to begin addressing problems that plague 
entire communities. One teacher quoted in 
the proposal for the study said, "We as 
teachers need to expand our knowledge 
base and understand rhe benefits of good 
nutrition and physical activity. We are in 
the perfect position to reach young people 
in our schools and promote healthy 
lifestyles." The hope is that this informa-
tion, provided at the most basic levels, will 
eventually change larger community pat-
terns. "Dr. Grey's program is innovative in 
that it focuses on prevention at all," 
explained Brownell. "There is very little 
else currently being done to prevent this 
societal problem." Connecticut is among 
the few states starting to address actively 
the discrepancy in health that is prevalent 
among its citizens. Dr. Grey's program is at 
the forefront of research in the field, and 
politicians around the state have begun to 
take note. State Senator Toni Harp has 
incorporated the health concerns at hand 
into her political agenda. With Senator 
Harp's push, Connecticut is one of only six 
states whose efforts to promote nutrition 
and physical activity have been awarded 
funding by the national Centers for Disease 
Control. Harp founded and co-chairs the 
Coalition to Fight Childhood Obesity in 
New Haven and was a key promoter of a 
resolution passed last April by the 
Connecticut general assembly concerning 
nutrition in public schools. One of the 
most important reasons for adopting the 
resolution was "to assist in the reduction 
and prevention of obesity and non-insulin-
using (Type 2) diabetes in children." On a 
small scale, these solutions look promising. 

If Juan and his family were able to 
reverse the trends in their life, and if four 
New Haven schools adopt active preven-
tion program, does this mean that the epi-
demic can be managed? The most signifi-
cant obstacle in the way of large-scale 
change seems to be that Juan lives in a 
community where obesity is the most nat-
ural path. Solutions are presented to chil-
dren who live in a fat-saturated world. 
Brownell's hope, however, is that the sort of 
action demonstrated by Harp and Grey 
will be noticed. "Ultimately the people and 
the government are in a position to do 
something similar regarding obesity as they 
have recently done with tobacco." Juan's 
success could be evidence that the problem 
can be solved, but until the obesity-rein-
forcing infrastructure of society is torn 
down, Juan's will be an uphill march. -
Juan MnukJza is a psroMnym. 
]mica Cohm, a smior in Timothy D.wight 
Colieg~, is managing ~ditor for TNJ.


**Title: Sermon Is On The Burden of Hopelessness**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 17-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
SERMON IS ON THE BURDEN of 
hopelessness. To begin, the Reverend 
W David Lee--pastor of New Haven's 
distinguished and most anciem black 
.. ~; •• u·, ~ ... Varick Memorial AME Zion 
a seat on 
oo.rartort--atJotes not from psalms or 
but from the early hip-hop inno-
Grandmaster Flash. "It's like a jungle 
·mes," he intones from the pulpit. 
like a jungle sometimes, it makes me 
I How I keep from going under." 
IICKJnm.vJeGI!tng that not everyone in the 
J&U'"'"'u:: will recognize the reference to the 
Furious Five's 1982 chart-topper "The 
" a rumination on the despair of 
living, Lee assures them that they 
the sentiment from somewhere: "If 
don't know Grandmaster Flash, you 
Marvin Gaye said it too, and OMX is 
it today: Out there, 'It's like a jungle 
.... ,,c:urn'"'" '" Echoing in the vast sanctuary 
the church, a tum-of-the-20TH-century 
in New Haven's rough Dixwell neigh-
the "Amens" and "Go-Ons" of 
congregation alternate with guffaws of 
·cion. The popular preacher is just 
started. 

Hopelessness might seem an unbcar-
burden here in the shadow of an Ivy 
university that often forgets 
residents when they stop sweep-
floors and serving food and go home 
the night. "You all know those people, 
know they're out there," he reminds his 
IMl,tre,~tiion. "You know those people who 
it to the top and forget the folks who 
them there. Some of y'all got managers 
that. You think they'd understand your 
But don't you dare throw in the 
We know a God who will help you 
your faith." 

Lee has made it his mission in life to 
those at the top of what they owe to 
who sustain them, and to see that jus-
is done. In an effort to link the dis-
communities of which he is a part-
Yale and the ghetto that surrounds it-the 
Dixwell pastor recently ran as a petition 
candidate for an alumni seat on the Yale 
Corporation-the University's governing 
board and ultimate authority, traditionally 
a bastion of wealth and national influence. 
Despite showing early promise, he was 
trounced. Today's sermon comes roughly 
one year after he began in earnest the cam-
paign that filled his community with the 
hope of finally being heard. But Lee's God, 
as he tells his congregation, is a God who 
curns weaknesses into strengths and 
mishaps into miracles. With the power of 
his God behind him, the thrashing Lee 
took at the hands of administrators and fel-
low alumni may well be a blessing in dis-
guise-one which leads all of Dixwell out 
of the jungle and into the promised land. 

THE PART OF ANsoNIA, Connecticut, 
I where Lee grew up was what Dixwell is 
today: a crossroads of poverty and privilege. 
Lee was from "the wrong side of the 
tracks." The world of his childhood sounds 
much like the jungle described by 
Grandmaster Flash: His mother raised him 
and his six siblings in a four-room apart-
ment. He had no contact with his father. 
Family members used drugs. His family 
moved from the projects to the north end 
of town when Lee was ten, and he was 
given his frrst glimpse of life across the 
divide. He vividly remembers the first day 
of fifth grade. "Me and another girl were 
the only two blacks in the classroom. I was 
like, wow, my other school had been 
diverse, but this was something else alto-
gether." He soon befriended a boy named 
Keith who lived in the whiter, wealthier 
Hilltop neighborhood. The two would 
hang out listening to Keith's father's Elvis 
Presley records; Lee was soon a die-hard 
&.n, borrowing LPs to listen to at home. He 
says of the time spent in Keith's house, 
"That was the first time I was ever in a 
white person's home, and he was my friend. 
We were the same .... That's when I knew 
that there was another side to life. That 
made me say, 'This is what I want to be."' 

Football, it became clear as he grew 
older, was one inroad to prosperity. 
Knowing his mother could not pay for col-
lege, Lee set his sights on earning a football 
scholarship to anywhere that would take 
him. He admits that he was in the right 
place at the right time. "I was privileged to 
be part of a football tradition that was sec-
ond to none in the state of Connecticut," 
Lee says of the football program at Ansonia 
High School. On the gridiron he found 
what he calls "an understanding of what I 
would like life to be like in the future. 
Ansonia wasn't all black or all white; it was 
a mixture. On the field, the only skin that 
mattered was the pigskin. You had young 
men from all walks of life coming together 
to work toward a common goal." 

When Lee talks about the children of 
Dixwell-his favorite topic when dis-
cussing Yale-New Haven relations-you 
get the sense that he sees in their lives the 
same hardships he endured, only with 
fewer opportunities to leave those hard-
ships behind. They too come into contact 
everyday with a wealthy white kids' house 
up on the hill-Yale University. "Kids 
should be able to do more than just visit 
and walk through the halls of this great 
institution. They'll allow kids to sit and see 
all the prestige ofYale, but never have a fair 
fighting chance to attend it? That's crimi-
nal." So he calls for Yale not only to send 
student tutors into New Haven neighbor-
hoods, but to tap into its $II billion endow-
ment and give financial support to New 
Haven public schools. Lee says he too 
wanted to attend Yale. But when Syracuse 
offered him a full scholarship for football, 
he had to accept. 

Lee lettered all four years at Syracuse 
as a defensive back. One game in particular 
stands out in his mind. In the early 1980s, 
Syracuse head coach Dick MacPherson was 
struggling to rebuild a failing program that 
the University was considering cutting 
altogether. The turning point that Lee 
credits with saving the program carne dur-
ing his junior year, when Syracuse hosted 
top-ranked 
Nebraska 
at 
home 
on 
17 


--- Page 18 ---

September 17, 1983. The year before, 
Nebraska had shamed Syracuse in Lincoln, 
winning 63-7. This year, both teams were 
undefeated, 
though 
Syracuse 
was 
unranked. "We upset them 17-9,'' Lee says. 
"And that was our greatest game. That 
game I'll never forget-because we shocked 
the world." Lee's preacher demeanor is gen-
tle and conciliatory, but you are always 
aware of the potentially explosive power of 
the underdog beneath the veneer. You 
know he has told this story a thousand 
times. He loves the shock of 
it. He relishes the credibili-
ty earned in a scrappy, 
come-from-behind revenge 
victory. To hear him talk, 
you'd think he almost likes 
starting with one mark in 
the loss column: Having 
disarmed his opponents by 
lowering their expectations, 
he can hit them full force 
for a win even sweeter for 
the surprise. 

I EE PLAYED HIS SENIOR 
l.year with torn cartilage in 
his knee. Having always 
planned on playing profes-
sionally, he took a year off 
after college to have arthro-
scopic 
surgery, 
then 
arranged try-outs for the 
New England Patriots, the 
New York Giants, and the 
Dallas Cowboys. He was 
cut from both the Patriots' L-----= 
and the Giants' squads, and as he was about 
to fly to Dallas, his knee swelled up again. 
In what he calls the most difficult decision 
of his life, he decided not to get on the 
plane and to give up his hopes for a profes-
sional career. Football, after all, offered no 
sure future. A photo above Lee's desk in his 
church office reminds him of this. It was 
taken after the best play he ever made, a 
blocked field goal he returned for a touch-
down. Lee holds the ball triumphantly in 
the air, beaming, as teammates jump to 
congratulate him. This is not what Lee 
notices in the photo, however. He sees Wes 
Dove, a hulking lineman in the right side 
of the frame. "He was a gentle giant," Lee 
says, "everybody's friend, and one hell of a 
football player." Dove tried out for the 
Miami Dolphins after graduation. When 
18 
he didn't make the cut, Lee recounts matter 
had been making a good living for a few 
of facdy, he went home and put a bullet 
years, first by selling Fords and Subarus, 
through his head. 

Unlike Dove, Lee had never staked 
everything on a pro career. Even before he 
dreamed of playing football, Lee knew that 
his true vocation was the ministry. The call 
came when he was ten, in an event Lee 
labels "The Budweiser Experience." He 
and his friend Morgan Johnson, called 
MoJo, were walking across the projects one 
Saturday morning to the nightclub owned 
~-----w---, a PhD and pursue a 
by MoJo's father, whom they helped with 
clean-up chores for pocket money. Lee rold 
his friend then that he wanted to be a min-
ister when he grew up, though he couldn't 
say why. Later, as they sat at MoJo's father's 
bar sipping soda, MoJo called out with a 
laugh, "Hey Dad, you know what David 
wants to be when he grows up? A preach-
er!" "Nah, you don't want to be a preacher," 
Mr. Johnson replied-a sentence that was 
punctuated by the crash of a giant 
Budweiser mirror that had suddenly fallen 
from the wall behind him. "Son," Johnson 
said to Lee as he surveyed the damage, "you 
be whatever you want." "It scared the day-
lights out of me," Lee says. That fear led 
him to keep his plans to himself. 

In 1989, Lee finally enrolled in semi-
nary at the Yale Divinity School. At 25, he 
then by selling insurance. He gave up his ' 
$40,000 salary and cook out loans to pay 
for school. "I decided that instead of just 
making money, I needed to pastor people 
and make a difference in people's lives," Lee 
says. His determination was reinforced 
during his last year of study for his Master 
ofTheology degree. Caught up in the incel-
lectual engagement he found at YDS, Lee 
debated whether to continue his studies for 
career as an academic 
theologian, or to stop 
tll•lll with his master's and 
pastor a church. As Lee 
and a group of friends 
confronting the same 
dilemma sat debating, 
Lee's 20-year-old cousin 
was shoe through the 
neck in a gang fight 
down the hill in Dixwell. 
Lee .accompanied his 
aunt to the morgue to 
identify the body, and 
the event redirected the 
course of his life for 
good. He returned to 
YDS determined that his 
third year would be his 
lase. "I realized I couldn't 
sic up there and study all 
that theory if it didn't 
make 
any 
difference 
down below. I needed to 
do something practical, 
to help build a bridge between the Valley 
and the Hill." After graduating, Lee pas-
cored numerous churches in New Jersey 
and one in Meriden, Connecticut, before 
being transferred to Varick in 1998. Not 
long afterward, with labor negotiations 
looming on the horizon, the Yale adminis-
tration began talking openly about 
strengthening the partnership between Yale 
and New Haven. To Lee, the time seemed 
right to build a bridge. 

'i"HE OPPORTUNITY PRESENTED ITSELF 
I when Levin started talking about part-
nership, partnership, partnership," Lee says 
of Yale President Richard Levin's positive 
rhetoric that led to his decision to run for 
the board. "So I asked myself.. are they seri-
ous about partnership? I never fathomed



**The David Lee Campaign**
**Author: Matthew Underwood**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
that it would cause the type of sensation 
that it did. I never dreamt that President 
Levin or the others would take it as an 
insult." 

The idea for Lee's candidacy originat-
ed among local pastors active in the 
Connecticut Center for a New Economy 
(ccNE), a local union-affiliated research 
and advocacy group. Lee is vice president 
of its governing board. The Reverend 
Lillian Daniel, the CCNE board's president 
and a YDS classmate of Lee, claims that the 
idea was never centered around Lee or the 
organization specifically. "His candidacy 
came up out of friendships among the local 
clergy, not through our organization," she 
explains. The idea was that one of them 
ought to run for a corporation seat, testing 
Yale's commitment to partnership with 
rankled some prominent alumni and cur-
rent members of the Corporation were 
Lee's financial ties to Yale's labor unions, 
who had paid for his S30,ooo petition-
drive mailing. Lee jumps to justify accept-
ing the donation: "How does a no-name 
pastor get a name out to all these alumni?" 
he asks in his own defense. ''I'm the pastor 
of a black congregation in New Haven, and 
I'm not personally wealthy, and so I had to 
go to those who would believe in this idea. 
The unions felt, hey, let's try this. And it 
was no strings attached." 

Others disagreed, seeing an aggressive 
adversary in Lee rather than a potential 
partner. Kurt L. Schmoke, former mayor of 
Baltimore and the Corporation's first 
Mrican-Arnerican Senior Fellow labeled 
staid process with his overt campaigning 
and failing to meet the high standards of 
achievement normally required for entry 
into the august governing board. In a rare 
public statement about the election, Levin 
said in an apparent dig at the young 
Dixwell preacher that "with an alumni 
body of I20,ooo, we should look for candi-
dates who are extremely accomplished in 
their fields." 

As the months wore on, the campaign 
that was ostensibly not about David Lee 
became more and more overtly personal. 
The AYA launched a website to inform 
alumni about the two candidates. Printed 
side by side with comments from Lin about 
her enthusiasm to serve the Yale communi-
ty were comments from Lee promising to 
To hear lee talk, vou'd 
think he likes starunu 
with one mark in the loss 
the community. Lee sums up the rea-
soning: "When you only have these 
wealthy corporate interests on the 
board and never have input from the 
level of the constituency you're in a 
partnership with, there's no room for 
that constituency's self determination. 
And that's essential for you to be 
received and respected in a host com-
munity where most people still live in 
poverty." Lee was chosen to run as the 
voice of that muted constituency. The 
Corporation controls Yale's endowment-
the $11 billion that Lee would like to see 
distributed in part back to the community. 
A seat on the Corporation would hardly 
give him free access to the money. Lee 
knows that his would be only one of 18 
votes in the board's decisions-not exactly 
a 
mandate 
for 
sweeping 
change. 
Nevertheless, he contends, having that 
community input could bring some issues 
to light that others might never have con-
sidered. 

"preserve the best interests of Yale 
University" as well as more adversari-
al soundbites. "Levin is probably 
laughing now, but he won't be laugh-
ing when we get there," read one. 
Another declared that "Yale has met 
its Waterloo in the Federation of 
Hospital and University Employees. 
Using the rarely-invoked process of 
nomination by petition, Lee got his name 
on the ballot for the 2002 election of an 
alumni fellow for the Corporation with 
over 5,ooo alumni signatures supporting 
his run. Most years, candidates for the 
vacant alumni seat are nominated by a 
selection committee chosen by the 
Association of Yale Alumni (AYA). This 
unorthodox method was not what generat-
ed the controversy, however. A number of 
alumni had used it in the past, including 
Wtlliam Horowitz, who became. the 
Board's first Jewish member in 1969. What 
NOVEMBER 2002 
column. 

Lee's bid "a mirage campaign, initiated by 
national labor organizations intent on gain-
ing ground on the campuses of private uni-
versities." University spokesman Helaine 
Klasky called Lee's tactics "unsavory," say-
ing, "If you're collecting so much money 
from the unions, you must be promising 
these people something." 

As the controversy brewed, the official 
AYA selection committee nominated only 
one candidate-architect Maya Lin, 
designer 
of the 
Vietnam 
Veterans 
Memorial in Washington-to oppose Lee 
in a not-so-veiled effort at stacking the 
deck. (Normally a slate of three to five can-
didates is proposed.) An alumni committee 
led by former University Secretary Henry 
"Sam" Chauncey began to publicly protest 
the "special interest campaign," taking on 
Lee's supporters in a battle played out in 
special advertising sections . of the Yale 
Alumni Magazine and on the opinion page 
of the Yale Daily News. The campaign 
focused primarily on Lee rather than Lin, 
who stayed above the fray and did not talk 
to the press. Lee's supporters challenged the 
University to live up to its rhetoric. His 
detractors accused him of "corrupting" the


It is indeed our time!" In May, an 
article in the 
Washington 
Post 
summed up the general feel of the 
campaign as it wound to a close: "There are 
those at Yale University who firmly believe 
that the Rev. W David Lee is a dangerous 
man .... privately, they belittle him as ambi-
tious yet insignificant, a nobody and a 
spoiler, a puppet of dark forces bent on 
soiling their shining city on a hill." 

By the time the ballots were finally 
cast, the AYA had spent $65,000 on mailings 
sent to clear ue the confusion of any Yale 
alumni who may have assumed that Lee 
had the group's endorsement. Chauncey's 
committee had spent $8o,ooo in a direct 
effort to defeat him. Lee's side, by contrast, 
had spent only $55,000, $30,ooo of which 
went towards the initial mailing. Despite 
the disproportionate spending, many 
thought David still had a good chance of 
slaying Goliath. The controversy had gen-
erated far more free publicity than he ever 
could have dreamed of receiving, and his 
campaign themes were thought likely to 
strike a sympathetic chord with alumni 
who had graduated in the last two decades, 
when New Haven's fortunes were ac their , 
lowest. Goliath, however, withstood the 
challenge: David Lee lose by a vote of 8,32.4 
to 45,575. 


---

**Title: Nightshift**
**Author: Santiago Mostyn**
**Page number(s): 22**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
McDonalds 3:14AM 
Pizza House 1:1OAM 
Cross Campus Library 1:06AM 
1 
Cross Campus Library !2:40AM 
Duncan Horell2:42AM 
22 


**Title:  Untitled**
**Page number(s): 23**

The Bathroom 10: 12PM 
Street Cleaning 2:45AM 
Zachary !2:14AM 
Anne 2:20AM 
Main Garden I 1:58PM 
Bag Check 11:55PM 
Santiago Mostyn, a junior in Calhoun College, is Photo Editor for TNJ 
N OVEMBER 2002 
23 


**Title: Devil's Night**
**Author:  (Not specified)**
**Page number(s): 24**

.. 
;. ... 
• ..~ .s:. 
.... • • 
• ~ 
. •• 
'Jr.:. • • • •• 
, 
D
EVIL's NIGHT EARNED ITS NAME in Fair Haven this year. Near 
midnight on October 30, an empty barn on Wolcott Street went 
up in flames. A few blocks away, an abandoned home on James Street 
met the same fate. Across the neighborhood at a house on Lombard 
Street, a car slammed into the garage door, reversed, and sped away. 
The car too was later found consumed by flames. When the sun rose 
on HalJoween, both buildings and the car had burned to rubble; no 
trace of the fires' origins could be found in the smoking remains. 
The destruction was a bitter irony for Fair Haven, where a recent 
economic upswing has ushered in a spate of development venrures 
that have begun to rejuvenate an area once regarded as New Haven's 
immigrant slum. The fires themselves are likely the result of long-
standing conflict over what course this development should take and, 
more importantly, who gets to control it. During the last several years, 
the neighborhood's predominantly Latino residents have pushed back 
the drug dealers and gang members who used to rule the streets. 
Family-owned businesses and freshly renovated houses have cropped 
up on almost every block. On Grand Avenue, fJ Charco imports the 
makings for its traditional tacos all tbe way from Mexico. A fresh fruit 
stand crops up every morning in 
Dollar IGng. Local busi-
ness owners, residents, and 
laying out enthusiastic 
plans for its revival. But while 
how best to achieve it often 
!~~ 
•• 
• 
E 
~ 
'.(~, • 
' 
ing war for control of Fair Haven's future. It is no coincidence that 
the targets of the attacks were two of Fair Haven's veteran repre-
sentatives on New Haven's Board of Aldermen, R."lul Avila and 
Kevin Diaz. The torched barn belonged to Avila, whose house 
stands in front of it; the vandalized garage was Diaz's. And just to 
make dear that the political connection between the events was no 
coincidence, the still anonymous vandals apparently targeted the 
James Street house because it was owned by the Fair Haven 
Development Corporation (FHOC), a nonprofit housing agency 
with close ties to the aldermen, who both sit on its governing 
board. 
The history behind the fires is long and bitter and has.,split 
Fair Haven into two camps, one allied with Avila and Diaz and the 
other closely tied to the powerful administration of Mayor John' 
DeStefano. Avila and Diaz have long used their positions to exer-
cise control over the neighborhood's development. Carping that · 
neighborhood improvement should always originate within the · · 
community, they demand that any outside group that wants to 
work in Fair Haven defer to their authority and operate through 
the network of businesses and nonprofit development agencies that · 
they control. But lately, DeStefano and his allies have charged rl}at 
Avila and Diaz have gone too far in their backroom manipulation 
and strong-arm politics. Last summer, DeStefano backed rival 
Democrat Johnny Martinez against Avila for state representative--
a slap ih the face for a veteran Democrat like Avila. When Martinez 
died in a car crash in October, DeStefano switched his support to 
The Devil's Night fires m9' 
"1111~1o.'IIIIOtJler of Avila's rivals, Juan Candelaria, to make sure that Avila 
not ,set the job. Candelaria, with the critical backing of the 
qffice, easily prevailed. 
'('mayor's office claimed the mantle of good governance 
I 



**Fair Haven's Political Fires**
**Author: [Author not specified]**
**Page number(s): 25-26**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
and clean policies against Avila. With plenty of community discontent to marshal to its purposes, City Hall made a convincing case. 
But the hands of the city administration and its allies stopped looking so clean in late October, when two well-known supporters of the mayor were arrested for absentee ballot fraud in the elections for Democratic ward chairmanships last March. That race pitted Menen Osorio-Fuentes, a staunch Avila-Diaz backer and president of the board of the FHDC, against the sister of Angelo Reyes, a staunch DeStefano supporter and one of the men later arrested for tampering with the ballots. Reyes's green pick-up truck, which is often blazed with DeStefano For Mayor signs in campaign seasons, is a common sight on the streets of Fair Haven, where he is a successful private developer and energetic community activist. He has made no secret of his opposition to Diaz and Avila's policies or to the PHDC. 


Just hours after Reyes and Yale senior Michael Montafio were arrested for tampering with absentee ballots, the properties went up in flames. So far, police and fire officials have offered no specific answers. But the Avila-Diaz camp was quick to insinuate a direct connection between the events. They charged that Reyes, who was once convicted of selling cocaine on the same streets where he now builds new homes, was behind the vandalism-retribution Fair Haven style. 


Were the fires the result of arson? If so, were the culprits local thugs seeking revenge for the arrest of Reyes and Montafio? Or could the attacks have been a sham perpetrated by supporters of Avila and Diaz in order to gain political sympathy and collect insurance money for the FHDC, as some others allege? The raise uneasy questions for Fair Haven, where political battles resemble guerilla warfare and margins of victory are often razor-thin-and often have little to do with outcomes at the polls. 


RAFAEL RAMOS HAS A DRAWER FULL OF POLAROIDS to show how disgusting the Fair Haven buildings that he visited as a building code inspector used to be. For Ramos, these photos show how far the neighborhood has come thanks to the hard work and growing influence of the Mayor, even at the expense of local leadership. The photos show condemned houses with sagging roofs, teenage boys brandishing their shotguns, mammoth piles of trash, a basement spotted with feces. One shows an apartment with a bar across the door. "That's a drug house," Ramos explained, sitting in his office at the Livable City Initiative (LCI), an urban improvement agency begun by DeStefano in 1996 and housed in City Hall. "They do that with bars on the door." 


Most of the pictures were taken in 1998 or earlier. Code violations still abound, said Ramos, but things are not nearly so bad these days. "Do we still have violence and derelict houses? Yes, but not to the same magnitude," he explained, flipping through the photographs ruefully. He, of course, gives much of the credit to Mayor DeStefano's administration. Avila and Diaz, in contrast, scorn outsiders and intimidate residents into submission-a power play that, according to Ramos, only isolates a community in great need of help. "They are not establishing relationships with the community. They're not leading by example," he said. 


When City Hall began its push for a change of political leadership in Fair Haven, Ramos was among those to answer the call. "We haven't done it until now. We have new grassroots leadership in Fair Haven who can partner with the city and non-profits. The momentum is there and it feels good," he said. 


But Ora Lee Dortshe points out exactly where the momentum stops: in front of her house on Chapel Street, where a repaved sidewalk abruptly ends. She is among residents who dispute Ramos's claim that the Mayor's leadership has delivered widespread benefit to Fair Haven. Starting there, the pavement is still filled with weeds and gaping holes. She thinks she knows why: It is "because of my big mouth," she says. Dortshe loudly opposed the Mayor's River Street development plan and the opening of a new restaurant across from her house. And she makes no secret of where her political sympathies lie-with her alderman and neighbor, Raul Avila. 


On a drive around her neighborhood, Dortshe points out other sidewalks that have not been redone and houses abandoned to the onslaught of winter and age. These disparities, she believes, are an effort by DeStefano's allies to punish those who have continued to support Avila--or, as Dortshe would put it, stand up for local sovereignty. 


People from outside of Fair Haven, according to Dortshe, do not understand what the neighborhood needs. Development projects originate in City Hall, among city employees who hail from outside the neighborhood. Dortshe repeatedly demanded promises that local contractors would be used in the River Street project, that minority businesses would be brought in and neighborhood residents employed. "People want to own their own homes they can be proud of. They want to do what other people do," she said, driving up Wolcott Street. "All of a sudden everyone's coming into Fair Haven. This one wants it, that one wants it. Suddenly everyone's talking about Fair Haven on the news. What are they talking about? Are they talking about those kids down there?" she asked, gesturing to a group of kids playing Halloween pranks down the block. 


What city hall is doing, she notes, is holding political grudges against her alderman Raul Avila and making sure he cannot accomplish anything on behalf of his constituents, preferring to install outside interests instead. 


But increasingly Dortshe feels the futility of her opposition, and resignation has begun to creep in where vitriol and persistence once earned her enemies. "After a point you just say the hell with it," she said. "They're going to do it ... They're going to do whatever they want." 


**Title: Fair Haven's Burning Question**
**Author: Paige Austin**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
that in their view this organization is Raul 
Avila .... They insist on viewing us as iden-
tical to their political .opponents. Because 
they want to oppose and destruct their 
political opponents, they are doing the 
same to us." 

The FHDC relies on the city for the 
bulk of its funding, as well as for access to 
properties on which taxpayers have fore-
closed. While its investigation is on going, 
LCI will not act on FHDC applications for 
property or funding. ''At this point, I can't 
see giving them anymore money," said 
Rizzo. 

Because aldermanic elections are often 
decided by just a few hundred voters, 
neighborhood political battles are invari-
ably dose-fought, with neigh-
bor pitted against neighbor 
appeared justified. "We are no handwriting 
experts," Town Clerk Sally Brown recalled 
later, "but a blind person could see they 
were different signatures." The office 
passed the case along to the State Election 
and Enforcement Commission (SEBC). 

Around the same time, said SEEC Executive 
Director Jeff Garfield, the office received a 
complaint &om the United States Postal 
Service that "individuals were attempting 
to intercept absentee ballots." The SEEC 
launched an investigation last March in 
conjunction with the Chief State's Attorney 
Office and the Postal Service--yielding 
charges against DeStefano supporters Reyes 
and Montafio. 

The ballot fraud and fires, regardless 
of whether or not they are actually pinned 
Spanish-language weekly La WJz Hispana 
ran photos of the two men along with 
Menen Osorio-Fuentes, chair of the board 
of the FHDC and Avila's Wolcott Street 
neighbor, over the caption "La Trilog.(a del 
Mal" -or, "The Axis of Evil." "They are 
not the Taliban," the article conceded, "But 
their type of political action comes too 
close to fundamentalism." 

The most important criticism, howev-
er, comes in the form of a question to Fair 
Haven residents: When was the last time 
you saw your alderman? "Raul had an 
opportunity to really change the neighbor-
hood because he's Hispanic, because people 
believed what he said," said Angelo Reyes 
one afternoon, before his arrest. "They did-
n't provide. They did what they wanted." 

Magda Natal, who ran against 
Osorio-Fuentes in the ward co-
chair elections last March, sees 
and personal jabs circulated 
quickly through the commu-
nity. Fair Haven is no excep-
tion: Avila and Diaz's support-
ers accuse their opponents of 
betraying the Puerto Rican 
community to an Italian-
American mayor and his 
henchmen. The aldermen's 
detractors, meanwhile, have 
spread rumors that the two 
men threaten to pull Section 8 
"This is Fair Haven, not a 
banana republic. Raul is 
not the , big mob boss he 
thinks he is." 

Avila's 
domination of her · 
neighborhood waning. "I think 
a lot of people are starting to 
wake up to what he's done and 
what he hasn't done," she said. 

Opponents say that Avila and 
Diaz are ~ but invisible except 
at election time. Their absence, 
detractors claim, is indicative of 
their group's insular nature and 
preoccupation with maintain-
ing power, which translates into 
housing subsidies from voters 
who do not support them. What is clear is 
that leaders on both sides of the political 
divide have tried to harness and redirect 
the passions that inspire political disen-
chantment in many Fair Havenites. 

"There's a lot of uncertainty in people's 
lives and that translates into fear," 
explained Duffy Acevedo, Republican 
challenger for the 95TH district state senate 
seat and a past aldermanic opponent of 
Avila's. "They're dependent on government 
completely. For what purpose would they 
want to go out and take a chance at pissing 
someone off?" 

The alleged ballot fraud in the last 
ward co-chair elections show just how vul-
nerable small-scale city elections are to 
illicit dealing. After the co-chair election, 
Avila and the candidates he supported, 
Menen Osorio-Fuentes and Elba Franklin, 
brought in affidavits signed by more than 
half a dozen voters who said they had not 
signed their own ballots. When the ballots 
were checked, the charges of tampering 
on the Mayor's supporters, are only the lat-
est clash in a convoluted and contentious 
history. It has been a couple of years since 
critics began blaming Avila and Diaz for 
Fair Haven's stunted development. The 
accusations are manifold: Avila and Diaz 
have used their positions on city commit-
tees and the management team to block 
city funding for any organization they do 
not control. They threaten and intimidate 
Fair Haven residents who oppose them. 

They work on behalf of a narrow con-
stituency of family and friends whom they 
reward with political favors and promises 
of work and new houses. They use ethno-
centric politics to demand allegiance &om 
the Puerto Rican community. The evi-
dence, say the aldermen's detractors, is all 
around: in the blighted houses that could 
be refurbished homes, the drug deals still · 
taking place on the corner, the streets filled 
with holes, the throngs of kids loitering on 
the sidewalk for want of any safe place to 
spend the afternoon. Last spring, the 
limiting access to positions of leadership 
and curtailing the flow of information into 
the community. But there is a problem 
with this approach. "Ultimately informa-
tion cannot be controlled," said manage-
ment team co-chair Lee Cruz. And ulti-
mately, word of other strong-arm tactics 
gets out too. "They forget that for every 
one person you intimidate that's six people 
who are going to know about it-and that's 
exactly what happened," said Ramos. 

Certainly, the Devil's Night attacks set 
rumors flying immediately. One political 
opponent said it would be impossible to 
identifY suspects by tracking Avila and 
Diaz's enemies because "half the town" fits 
that description. The aldermen's supporters 
are quick to point out that Reyes has served 
time in jail for a drug-dealing conviction, 
and they claim that he maintains ties with 
local street thugs. 

Supporters of the aldermen claim that 
there are indeed signs of neglect-the 
neglect of City Hall and its loyalists. Mary 
Desmond, who ran scare senator Martin 
Looney's mayoral campaign against Mayor 
DeStefano in Fair Haven last fall, found 
veins of resentment towards City Hall ran 
deeper than Avila and Diaz's complaints: "A 
lot of people felt disenfranchised by the 
mayor's administration just because of the 
neglect. You had a core group of people 
who live here knocking on people's doors 
eight to ten hours a day and asking, when 
was the last time you saw a sidewalk go in?" 

TWICE IN THE LAST TWO YEARS, Avila 
and Diaz have clashed with other 
board members over the allocation of 
Community Development Block Grant 
money. In 2000, Avila, Diaz and Fair 
Haven's 
Ward-14 
Alderman 
Robin 
Kroogman blocked a grant to a Fair Haven 
Housing Initiative project supported by 
City Hall, instead securing another grant 
for their own agency, the FHDC. The battle 
lines were drawn again last year, when the 
Mutual Housing Corporation applied to 
do a development project at a site on Ferry 
Street. Avila twice delayed action on the 
proposals. 

When the issue came to a vote last 
May, Avila clashed angrily with Kroogman, 
leading her to try to have him ejected from 
the chambers. He has since sued her over 
the incident-a first in aldermanic history, 
according to board president Jorge Perez. 

Avila's actions at the May ninth meeting 
were the primary motivation behind 18 
aldermen's July request for an investigation 
into his conduct. 

Avila and Diaz further angered City 
Hall by voting against DeStefano's most 
recent budget, his first not to pass the 
aldermanic 
board 
with 
unanimous 
approval. Meanwhile, all three Fair Haven 
aldermen supported state representative 
Martin Looney in his primary campaign 
against the Mayor last fall. The Mayor's 
office in turn got behind Avila and Diaz's 
opponents in the last aldermanic race, and 
supported candidates running against their 
allies for control of the ward co-chairs and 
the management team. The 95TH district 
race provided an ideal opportunity to crush 
Avila and install a mayoral ally from across 
town and lay the groundwork for unseating 
Avila in the next aldermanic election. 

But regardless of which side has dirtier 
hands, Avila and Diaz have sacrificed their 
capacity for effective leadership by becom-
ing so adversarial towards City Hall. 

Community leaders who have worked with 
the aldermen say that a productive dialogue 
is difficult, if not impossible, in the face of 
their uncompromising opposition to inte-
gration into citywide deVelopment plans. 

THE 
GRAND 
AvENUE 
VENDoR's 
Association (GAvA) is a prime example 
of the need for such a dialogue between 
City Hall and local leadership. At their last 
meeting, some of CAVA's 54 members 
expressed frustration with the drug dealers 
loitering on the corner of Poplar and 
Grand. As a result, co-founder Norma 
Franceschi set up a meeting with the chief 
of police. Franceschi says GAVA often gives 
business owners leverage against negligent 
landlords by enlisting LCI on their behalf. 

The association's success in improving 
economic conditions on Grand Avenue is 
helping to attract businesses to Fair Haven, 
underscoring the benefits that can come 
from a working relationship with City 
Hall. Avila and Diaz say they agree that 
cooperation is important-but they want it 
on their own terms, a condition that GAVA 
clearly violates. Their bargaining position, 
unfortunately, is not too strong. As 
Desmond described the situation: "This is 
Fair Haven, not a banana republic. Raul is 
not the big mob boss he thinks he is." 

The divisiveness of the insiders-only 
rhetoric used by some of Avila and Diaz's 
supporters was on display at the town 
council meeting called to elect Martinez's 
successor. Despite the overwhelming sup-
port for Candelaria indicated three days 
earlier in a straw poll convened by former 
95TH 
District Representative Andrea 
Jackson-Brooks, Avila's supporters sharply 
rebuked those voting for the mayor's candi-
date. "Someone said you guys have to do 
what I say," Fuentes told the group. "This 
has to do with a vendetta by a certain elect-
ed official. Everyone should stand for 
themselves." 

The next night, Jackson-Brooks shook 
her head at the show of acrimony. "They 
basically called everyone there a puppet," 
she said. "You don't make friends and influ-
ence people by calling them names." Bret 
Bissell, executive director of the Fair Haven 
Housing Initiative, says he and other devel-
opers quickly tired of playing Avila and 
Diaz's games. Their philosophy on non-
profit funding for Fair Haven is clear, he 
said: "They would rather have it not come 
than not be in control of it." 

Yet for all the talk of a spontaneous 
wave of community opposition to a cor-
rupt and ineffectual leadership, the role of 
the mayor's office in catalyzing opposition 
is difficult to ignore. "The vote did not 
beat Raul. The machine beat Raul," Avila's 
Republican challenger Acevedo said before 
the election. "They chose to isolate Raul 
not because he's doing a bad job but 
because he won't work with them." 

Isolation in city politics, where every pro-
posal for funding or a new foundation has 
to go through a dozen layers of bureaucra-
cy, is akin to political impotence. "If he is 
ineffective, why? Because the city is shut-
ting him off," said Ward 14 co-chair Nancy 
Pascale, who was one of only five votes in 
support of Avila for the 95TH district nom-
ination. "Why do I have to be a puppet to 
get what I want for my neighborhood? 
That's not right." 

IN THEIR OWN DEFENSE, Avila and Diaz 
justify. their opposition to the mayor's 
development initiatives in the last four 
years as the result of a difference in philos-
ophy, rather than mere obstructionism. 

They claim that the mayor's proposals were 
drafted without the input of local officials 
and without the necessary understanding. 
of Fair Haven's needs. As the mayor's office 
demands stricter allegiance in exchange for 
its support, explained Diaz, aldermen have 
begun to forsake the long-standing tradi-
tion of deferring to the local politician on 
issues affecting his or her ward. Avila, Diaz 
and, until her recent change of political 
heart, Kroogman, have fiercely defended 
their turf. 

"I support government spending that 
fosters self-sufficiency and allows people to 
build wealth within their own communi-
ties," Avila said in an email shortly before 
Election Day. "I have used my influence to 
negotiate better outcomes on those projects 
that do not fit that definition." A big part 
of the problem is that some Fair Haven res-
idents, like Ora Lee Dorrshe, are deeply 
suspicious of outside efforts to develop 
their community. They see outside non-
profit organizations and Yale alumni as fly-
by-night reformers, interested in using Fair 
Haven as a guinea pig for their social devel-
opment projects without truly understand-
ing the community's complex social and 
economic dynamics. "If you are the direc-
tor of an agency, at 5 o'clock you get in 
your car and go back to your nice suburb. 
We're the ones here hearing the gunshots 
and seeing the traffic and the overcrowd-
ing," said Diaz. It is easy to direct this dis-
trust towards City Hall, especially given 
that three of the top officials in the mayor's 
current administration-Julio Gonzalez, 
Robert Smuts, and Henry Fernandez-are 
young Yale graduates. 

CERTAINLY, IT IS NOT HARD to perceive a 
double standard in City Hall's deci-
sions about when to blow the whistle. New 
Haven doles out over $7 million in devel-
opment money annually; with a finite pool 
of political players and plenty of red tape to 
obscure the mechanisms by which funding 
is allocated, scandal can be found in almost 
any corner. "It all depends who has the 
power and who they decide to attack," 
Diaz said. He points out that other housing 
development agencies have been found 
guilty of much more egregious mismanage-
ment; key mayoral supporters such as 
Johnny Martinez have been rewarded with 
top positions in City-run agencies; and 
many of City Hall's ground forces have 
been composed of people with question-
able backgrounds. 

It is City Hall's superior manpower, 
access to funding, and sway over local 
media that make renegade politics so 
untenable. Without the support of the 
mayoral administration and the agencies 
beneath its umbrella, development is all 
but impossible. Instead of assigning blame 
for the logjam, however, Fair Havenites 
would do well to concentrate on the best 
way to break through it-before any more 
of their neighborhood goes up in flames. 
Paige Austin, a freshman in Davenport 
Colkge, is on the!ta.lfo[TNJ. 

**Title: Pedalling Politics**
**Author: Billy Parish**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
) 
Pedalling Polit • ICS 
By Billy Parish 
I
HAVE BUTTERFUES IN MY STOMACH," Charlie Pillsbury tells us, 
smiling hopefully as he guides his bicycle into the street. In spite 
of his silver beard, khaki shorts, and bike helmet, he speaks to the 
cluscer of reporters and carries himself in a way that reminds me of 
Gregory Peck playing Atticus Finch in To Kill A Mockingbird. The 
four of us accompanying Charlie on the ride finish stretching, eager 
to begin. Swinging our legs over the bicycle frames and settling into 
our toe clips, we merge with the main street traffic on our way 
down the Connecticut coast. 

It is a perfect fall day. We bike by small pastures and crumbling 
stone walls. The leaves on the maples .and oak trees are just begin-
ning to turn, and the shade they provide has a mottled, rosy warmth 
to it. We bike for miles without word or rest. Lulled by my enjoy-
NoVEMBER 2002 
ment of the soft hills and scenery, I almost forget we are riding for 
another purpose. With 25 days until the election, Charlie Pillsbury 
is campaigning to win a seat in Congress. A victory would make 
him the most powerful Green Party politician in the nation, and as 
a candidate, Charlie has a unique appeal. He has worked for 30 
years in New Haven, the largest city of the congressional district, as 
an attorney, an advocate for the homeless, and the director of a 
community mediation center. He can even claim some degree of 
national name recognition: His great grandfather founded the 
Pillsbury Company, and college roommate Gary Trudeau modeled 
Mike Doonesbury, the lead character of the Doon~sbury comic strip, 
on Charlie. And yet, there is something curious about this cam-
paign: Every one of us riding with Charlie knows he has no chance 
of winning. 

Even for a candidate who is unknown, inexperienced, and out-
spent, there is one last-ditch populist ploy that can turn the tide: the 
campaign tour. After all, well-run campaign tours have been 
responsible for some of the biggest electoral upsets in American his-
tory. In the 1948 presidential election, every poll, every journalist, 
and even Harry Truman's own wife predicted that Thomas Dewey 
would beat him by a landslide. After a 22,ooo-mile whistlestop 
campaign tour with hundreds of speeches from the back of his 
train, Truman eked out a victory. In 1992, a relatively unknown gov-
ernor from Arkansas upset a war-hero president after a media-fren-
zied bus tour across the country. 

In this tradition, Charlie is setting qut on a 5-day, 16o-mile lis-
tening tour through all 25 towns in the district on his royal blue 
Schwinn 'Traveler' Io-speed bicycle. Seemingly unaware of how 
perfectly the tour fits most people's stereotype of the hopelessly 
nai"ve Green, Charlie proudly calls this his "good, Green Party idea." 
He and his campaign team have planned a number of press events 
and meetings with community leaders along the way. But in 
American politics, it isn't easy being Green: In the 18 years since the 
party was founded, no Green Party candidate has ever won a seat in 
Congress on the national or even state level. Moreover, the incum-
bent, Rosa DeLauro, is the second-highest-ranking Democratic 
woman in the House of Representatives. Seeking her 7TH term in 
office, DeLauro has raised more than six times the campaign money 
Charlie has. So why did Charlie agree to enter a political race he 
almost surely couldn't win? What ·was the purpose of this seeming-
ly quixotic tour? I wondered if the Green Party had a prayer of ful-
filling their promise to, "regenerate grassroots democracy in 
America." The only one to respond to posters that Charlie had put 
up at Yale, I committed to join the tour for all five days to see if I 
could answer these questions. 

31 


A
T THE END OP OUR EXHAUSTING 40-
mile first day, dominated by a trip co a 
local high school, Charlie changes his 
clothes and has a quick bite to eat before 
going co "candidate's forum night" at Notre 
Dame High School. Although he knows it 
is more productive to spend his time with 
people old enough to vote, Charlie can't 
rum down an opportunity to talk co kids. 
"When you hit your mid sos, you begin to 
realize your days are numbered. I wane co 
pass on the ethic of political engagement 
my parents taught me," he says. The dining 
hall of this all-boys Catholic school bas 
been converted into a small lecture space, 
and local candidates are giving short 
speeches and answering questions from the 
75 or so students in the room. Richter Elser, 
the Republican candidate, has shown up, 
but DeLauro is absent. Charlie ,....------::: 
begins his talk with a question, 
"Who was the last third party can-
didate to win the presidency of the 
United Stares?" "Roosevelt!" one 
boys yells. "Washington," says 
another. "No, nobody ever did 
that," a third boy responds. 
"Abraham Lincoln," Charlie says, 
"When he was elected, 
the 
Republican Parry was a new third 
parry, after the Democrats and the 
Whigs. You've got to stare some-
where, right?" This last thought is 
a source of comfort for Green 
politicians, who happily point our 
and meetings. The most important stop of 
the day is at the Pratt & Whitney aircraft 
manufacruring plane in North Haven. The 
old brick building is a single massive room 
with row upon row of humming ceiling 
lamps. Below, heavy machinery lies in scat-
cered piles, and mountains of metal cabi-
nets, workbenches, and chairs are arranged 
in rough aisles. The plant closed a year ago, 
and today is the first of a two-day liquida-
tion sale. Anything that isn't sold will be 
dumped in a landfill, the sale manager tells 
me. 

Charlie is here to meet with Kate 
· Greco, the widow of a Pratt & Whitney 
employee who died two years ago of 
glioblastoma multiform, an aggressive 
brain tumor that strikes fewer than three 
in xoo,ooo people each year. In March, 
that Ralph Nader received almost ,_..,;;...... __ __. 
3 million votes in the controversial 2000 
the Connecticut Department of Public 
presidential election-over 2 million more 
Health confirmed 41 cases of the tumor in 
than he had received 4 years earlier. 
P&W employees in Connecticut (19 in the 
North Haven plant alone). Ms. Greco 
claims the total count is now at So cases 
statewide, and she has started an advocacy 
T
HE DRIZZLE THAT BEGAN on the after-
noon of the first day has kept up for 
the whole night and continues into the 
morning of the second. The sky is slate gray 
and the streets are spotted with puddles. 
The rain is forecast co continue throughout 
the day. Our hostess for the first overnight, 
a 90-year-old woman who used co baby-sic 
AJ Gore in Tennessee, shakes her head as we 
busde around the house. 'Td wait until next 
week," she says, "the only message that will 
gee sent today is that it is cold and wee." 
We leave anyway and have our busiest 
day of the whole tour, full of press events 
32 
group called Worked to Death for the fam-
ilies of the victims and employees of P&W. 
As reporters from four Connecticut news-
papers crowd to listen in on Charlie and 
Ms. Greco's conversation, Charlie says, "It is 
impressive to me that Ms. Greco has rurned 
her private grief into a public service. She's 
a hero." "Thank you,"' she says quiedy, 
keeping her eyes fixed on the ground in 
front of her. One reporter asks Charlie, "Are 
you going co take any sore of stand on this 
issue? Is there anything you can do as a can-
didate?" He looks pained for an instant 
before tactfully ducking the question by 
explaining instead what he would do if 
.. 
elected. 

One of the central claims of the Green 
Parry is that, by virtue of its independence 
from corporate sponsorship, its candidates 
are more inclined to tackle local problems 
and protect individuals. And yet, with a 
few 
minor exceptions like 
Michael 
Feinstein, the mayor of Santa Monica, 
California, Green politicians have been 
unable co get into important offices. So, 
while getting four reporters to cover this 
story is a start, as a Green who almost cer-
tainly won't win the election, Charlie is as 
powerless to help as anyone else. 

O
VER BREAKFAST ON THE THIRD MORN-
ING, we discuss the different methods 
we each used to dry our shoes the night 
before. In my exhaustion, I had for-
gotten to do anything, and Charlie 
is a little worried about my feet. 
They are a translucent pale color 
and puffy from the full day in 
waterlogged tennis shoes and are 
now unhappily stuffed in the same 
soaking sneakers. Minutes later, 
though, we are all suffering equally: 
It is steadily raining again. No press 
conferences or meetings are sched-
uled for the third day. Paul and 
Dave, Charlie's staffers, explain that 
many labor and community groups 
won't meet with Charlie because 
they need to remain loyal to 
DeLauro and the Democratic 
Party. So Charlie plans to make 
stops wherever he can fmd a group of 
potential voters, a task made much more 
difficult by the rain. 

Our first stop is at a behemoth shop-
ping center outside of Waterbury. We 
spend a few minutes waiting outside of the 
electric doors of a Sears store, but the few 
customers not enjoying their Saturday 
morning dry and at home seem co live out-
side the district, so we move on. Several 
miles later, we stop to use the restrooms in 
Roller Magic, a roller rink in downtown 
Waterbury. Charlie introduces himself co a 
group of parents standing by th~ edge of 
the rink. watching their kids skate. He dis-
covers that they are from Watertown, not 
Waterbury, and are thus just outside of the 
3RD district. Across the room, Dave is 
changing dollars into quarters to play air 
hockey. "Come on, Dave," Charlie shouts 
with an edge to his voice I haven't heard 


T IS NOT SO MUCH THE INTENSITY that is 
impressive, but the persistence of the 
downpour that greets us for the third day 
in a row. Incredibly, it is still raining on the 
afternoon of the fourth day of the tour 
when Mark Kurber, a tall man in a plaid 
shirt and work pants riding a dirt bike, 
joins us as we pass through Ansonia. Mark 
hesitates a moment and asks, "Isn't 
DeLauro a pretry liberal Democrat?" 
Charlie doesn't miss a beat in responding, 
"Well, liberal on issues like labor and the 
environment, but not on war or universal 
healthcare. She voted well on Bush's resolu-
tion, but hasn't committed to preventing a 
war against Iraq. We need to keep pushing 
her on that." But despite Charlie's pat 
answer, Mark's question cuts to the heart of 
anti-Green sentiment in the liberal ranks-
a charge closely related to its reputation as 
a "spoiler parry," especially after Ralph 
Nader tipped the election away from the 
Democrat Al Gore in several key states in 
the 2000 election. In this case, the minimal 
support for the Republican candidate 
means that there's almost no chance 
Charlie would play the same role. But the 
question stands: Wouldn't progressive vot-
ers have more success in trying to influence 
the DemocFatic parry from within rather 
than trying to challenge it from without at 
the risk of throwing elections altogether? 

Recently, Charlie's supporters have been 
giving him credit for DeLauro's decision to 
voce against President Bush's Iraq war resolu-
tion. Charlie himself has pointed out several 
times to reporters along the tour that he has 
gotten DeLauro to debate twice already even 
though she had only debated twice before in 
twelve years of office. Forcing the Democrats 
to the political left and raising neglected 
issues are valid objectives for a liberal third 
party, but for many left-of-center voters, 
these benefits come at too high a cost. 

E
ARLY IN THE MORNING ON THE LAST 
DAY, we meet in front of the Audubon 
Sociery's Research Center on Milford 
Point. The rising sun reflects gold and 
green off the water and the tall grasses of 
the protected salt marsh surrounding the 
building. After three days of relentless rain, 
the sky is clear, and the roads are dry. It is 
still cold, but we are so glad to see the sun 
that no one complains. 

After lunch, several more supporters 
join us, and we are 15 strong as we walk our 
bikes across the New Haven Green. Large 
tents are clustered on one side, and people 
are stretched out in the sun. This makeshift 
commune, called Tent Ciry, has been hous-
ing between 40 and 110 homeless people 
since the overflow shelter was closed a 
month ago. 

Charlie walks up to a group of men 
standing by the tents and asks them what 
he can do to help. "We need water," the 
man says, "and some warm clothes. It's 
been raining for three days straight and 
there's a bunch of us that have gotten cold." 
Charlie finds one of the men in charge of 
the communiry and gives him $20 to get 
water. He confers with the rest of the bik-
ers and returns, promising to bring blan-
kets and warm clothes at the end of the day. 
I notice that Charlie hasn't introduced 
himself to the men, much less given them 
the stock greeting he used with virtually 
everyone else on the tour. Doing practical, 
hands-on work to help these people, the 
communiry mediator in Charlie has taken 
over, submerging his political aspirations. I 
have not seen him so at ease since he met 
with the students on the first day of the 
tour. 

As we pull into the empry parking lot 
of the campaign headquarters, we ride in a 
wide circle before coming to a stop. 
Standing by our bikes, we look silently at 
each other for a few seconds, and then 
everyone begins to smile and laugh. We 
exchange long hugs, in which, if only for a 
moment, we forget that Charlie won't 
win--or at least realize that winning was 
never really the point. 

On election day, Delauro took 66% of 
the vote, Elser 28%, and Pillsbury 5%. 
BiUy Parish is junior in Morse Colkge. 
TheNewJournal 
would like to thank 
Ariel Bowman 
Maeve Herbert 
Anya Kamenetz 
Elizabeth Meriwether 
Ana Muiioz 
Casey Pitts 
David Slifka 
John Swansburg 
Blake Wtlson 
THANK You! 
33 



**A Serara Peace**
**Author: Erica Franklin**
**Page number(s): 34-35**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
A FEW WEEKS AGO, I watched from a distance as an eclectic group 
of New Haven residents bearing homemade signs and banners 
gathered on the courthouse steps to file a war crimes indictment. 
T heir list of alleged war criminals included George W Bush, Dick 
Cheney, Donald Rumsfeld and Colin Powell, and they were press-
ing for prosecution. 

A greying, unassuming man clad in stained and faded jeans and 
an old denim jacket addressed the crowd through a megaphone: 
"We are resisting and showing our protest to the ones in power!" 
Standing in rows on the courthouse steps, the participants clutched 
their ami-war banners in silence, scaring straight ahead solemnly 
and purposefully. Someone 
distributed 
copies of the 
indictment, with a list of the 
country's most powerful offi-
cials at the top and the 
Connecticut Peace Coalition 
of New Haven's email address 
on the bottom. In unison the 
group read the entire indict-
ment aloud. Then a few repre-
sentatives stepped into the 
courthouse to present the doc-
ument 
to 
Connecticut's 
Attorney General. "Now we'll 
see what they have to say," 
someone remarked smugly. 
There was applause and a hesitant chorus of"yays." 
"Sorry people," muttered a passerby stopping to glance up at 
the protesters. I frowned at him, but I didn't wholly disagree. 
Neither did I correct a friend who referred to them as "those cra-
zies." But at the same time, their stance against attacking Iraq mir-
rored my own. As the drumbeat for war had intensified over the 
past few weeks, I hadn't been able to shake the guilry feeling that 
students like myself had a role to play. Hasn't it traditionally been 
up to students to tile the scales to the left, to keep the government's 
hawkish tendencies in line? And if the protest movement was in fact 
my inherited duty, didn't I share some common ground with the 
protesters on the courthouse steps? 

A few days later, I took one of the white armbands that sym-
bolized my disapproval of war on Iraq. I dangled the frayed scrip of 
cloth from a strap on my backpack, carefully positioning it where 
my stance against the war would be visible-but not too visible. 

AT ONE OF THE COALITIONS TRI-WEEKLY STREET-cORNER vigils, 
Joan Cavanagh had taken up her usual post, solemnly distrib-
uting copies of the group's latest anti-war leaflet as fellow members 
stood behind her with a banner. A loose tweed coat dwarfed her 
slender frame; a red knit beret partly hid her shoulder-length grey 
hair. There was something resolute about her silhouette, as she 
extended her arm every time someone walked by. At forry-eight, 
Cavanagh is no stranger to the anti-war movement. She made her 
debut as a protester when she wa; active in her high school, then she 
dropped out of college after one semester to join a collective that 
was working against the war. She didn't go back to school until she 
was 29. "I actually have the pride of saying I was in prison on my 
21ST birthday," she told me. "Most of my friends were pretry cool 
with it. By that time they weren't surprised," she explained. "I had 
already been arrested 
six or seven times 
and had done jail 
time for 
it. 
My 
m other wasn't too 
happy; what can you 
say?" 

About 
twelve 
people 
constitute 
what 
Cavanagh 
termed the 
"core 
group," those who 
regularly come to 
the weekly coalition 
meetings. There are 
about 50 m embers 
who attend Coalition events, and the group's email list has about 
300 names. In four years, they haven't missed a Sunday on the cor-
ner of Broadway, Park, and Elm silently protesting sanctions, and 
now war, on Iraq. In the face of New England winters, hateful accu-
sations and-perhaps worst of all-passersby who don't even look 
up, what sustains such dogged resistance vigil aft:er vigil, week aft:er 
week? "I can't associate with the US government. I have to actively 
dissociate myself," Cavanagh cold me. "Silence is complicity," she 
continued, likening present-day protesters to Germans who resisted 
Nazi authority. "If everyone had capitulated at that time, what kind 
of hope do we have of the human race?" I winced. That's the kind 
of comparison that leaves a bitter aft:er-taste, that makes. eyes nar-
row at the thought that someone really had the nerve to say such a 
thing. It's the kind of analysis I'm quick to reject. 

One-by-one, Cavanagh handed out leaflets to anybody who 
would take one. She had already given out 100 leaflets in half an 
hour, she told me proudly. She knows many passersby do in fact 
read the flyers, she told me, because she often receives responses to 
them via email. Others clearly don't. A few people walked briskly by 
without looking up. "No thanks. Iraq. Hmmm ... See you guys 
later," said a man wallcing by. I wonder if those who refused the 
leaflet were wary of what didn't come from The New York Times, 
too wedded to the mainstream to ponder the possibility of their 
own indoctrination. Maybe like me, they've learned to parrot the 
opinions of those with d1e highest credentials and to second-guess 
the chorus from the margins that seems to culminate in a simple 
refrain: IfThe Government is behind it, it's corrupt, no questions 
asked. 

But my faith in the system is instinctive, not intellectual. 
Rationally, I realize that those doth banners are about individual 
issues more than subversion for its own sake; I believed one of the 
coalition's members, when he vouched that he doesn't "pick a side 
ahead of time," and I respected his and fellow protesters' willing-
ness to challenge what they read. But my fear of being a dissenter 
must die hard, for I secretly hoped no one I knew had seen me 
starlding beside Cavanagh, holding a piece of the anti-war harmer. 

IT WAS A SUNDAY AFTERNOON, and 14 people had shown up to 
protest on the corner of Broadway, Park and Elm. Cavanagh 
stood a few feet away, distributing flyers. Just across the street, a 
man dressed in an American flag costume and fiercely waving an 
enormous flag danced across his strip of sidewalk shouting against 
the cacophony of honking cars. "Saddam Hussein! He is a poach-
er! Let's kill him now!" he cried, addressing the anti-war protesters. 
"And you support him! USA!" The anti-war protesters glanced up 
at him every once in a while, but didn't budge. 

"It's a matter of increasing numbers," Joan said to me. "As the 
numbers increase, the impact increases." So the government really 
notices? "They hear it," she said. "They know it's out there." When 
it comes to protesting, numbers make a dual statement, directed 
both at the government and at the people. "I feel there's a lot of 
people [who) unfortunately need reassurance that they're not the 
only ones who are against what George Bush is plarming," said a 
Coalition member named Paula, a freelance writer and poet. She 
hopes to provide that reassucar1ce, she explained, by "starlding out 
in the street corner with the signs and slogans they have in their 
hearts but they're not ready to show." A lot of people thank her for 
what she's doing, she told me. "I say, 'why don't you join?' They say, 
'well I'm glad you're doing it.'" I shook my head in disapproval, at 
the same time fully recognizing that she'd described me to a T. I 
resolved to change. 

THERE'S SOMETHING EXHILARATING ABOUT CROWDS, especially 
when they number in the hundreds of thousands like the one in 
Washington, oc, a few weeks after my initial encounter with the 
Coalition. "There's no power like the power o' th' people 'cause the 
power o' th' people don't stop, say what?" I was jumping up and 
down as I shouted with the crowd. "This is what democracy looks 
like! That is what hypocrisy looks like!" we cried gleefully, pointing 
from ourselves to the White House beside us. It was a celebration 
of the First Amendment. As far as you looked, all you could see 
were protesters and their signs. For a few hours, I believed we were 
a force to be reckoned with; I believed in "the power o' th' people" 
and "what democracy looks like." We were living it. Maybe that's 
how the coalition members felt when they delivered the indictment 
to the State Attorney General and sat back to wait for the trial to 
begin. I wondered how I'd once mocked the cardboard signs of the 
Connecticut Peace Coalition and marveled that it had taken me so 
long to truly comprehend the power and the imperative of resis-
tance. "The people! United! Will never be defeated!" we shouted 
rhythmically, and I believed it. It was my job to put that truth into 
action. As the numbers increase, the impact increases. And silence 
is complicity. 

In the middle of the day, swept up in the anti-war fervor, I 
removed my white armband from its inconspicuous position on my 
backpack and asked a friend to tie it around my arm. 

But the magic was fleeting, and shortly after my return, the 
torn piece of cloth was relegated to my desk drawer with a promise 
to retie it that I have yet to fulfill. In fact, the protest at the capitol 
already feels like a distant memory. A Yale student and Coalition 
member I befriended on the bus to DC asked me afterward if it I 
would attend more large-scale protests like it. I didn't have to pause 
much to answer in the affirmative, and I haven't changed my mind. 
I guess I have no trouble protesting when thousands of people 
around me are doing it too. 

Yesterday, I attended one of the Coalition's street-corner vigils 
for what might have been the last time. That day's banner read "No 
us Military in Iraq." I couldn't agree more wholeheartedly. And I 
don't think they're a bunch of"crazies." I respect their conviction of 
their own accountability in us foreign policy, their courage in chal-
lenging the mainstream, and their determination to display their 
resistarlce to the people and the government person by person, week 
after week. I considered volunteermg to spend a few mirlutes hold-
ing up a corner of their worn, cloth banner. But after hanging 
around for a few mirlutes, I decided against it and lefr. 

1111 
Erica Franklin is a sophomore in Jonathan Edwards College.


**T.J.IJ.UING CU~~**
**Author: Jacob Blecher**
**Page number(s): 36**

IN THE EARLY FALL OF 1989, three girls in traditional Muslim head-
scarves entered a small public school in northern France. 
Innocuous as the garments may have been, the school's headmaster 
forbade the girls to enter their classrooms until they removed the 
scarves. 

When they refused, he banished them to the school's 
library, citing infringement of France's venerated code of laicit~ 
radical separation of church and state. What ensued was more than 
half a decade of histrionics and political. conflict. The "Affair of the 
Scarf," as it became known, implicated 
everyone from then-President Francois 
Mitterand to public intellectuals like Regis 
Debray to the justices of the country's high 
court. In question was whether the presence 
of religious clothing such as the scarves· poses 
a threat to liberal democratic principles. 
Mainstream feminists said yes, the scarves are 
symbols of oppression; centristS and right-
wingers said yes, they represent a threat tO 
France's deep-seated secular values; only a 
few leftists disagreed, arguing that the girls 
had willfully decided to wear the headgear. 
But no clear solution emerged: In 1994, the 
Minister of Education declared that French 
studentS could wear discreet religious sym-
bols (such as yarmulkes), but not head-
scarves, essentially ending the controversy 
exactly where it had started. 

This bitter episode occupies just a few 
pages of Seyla Benhabib's latest book, The 
Claims of Culture, but it neatly representS the 
central problem of the work: How can liber-
al democracy and multiculturalism co-exist? 
How can we maintain democratic principles 
of equality and inclusion, such as those 
which undergird public schools, when cer-
tain individuals and groups, like the three 
Muslim girls, actively demand to be recognized as different and 
excluded on cultural grounds? That may sound like the kind of 
question that only a political philosopher would ask-Benhabib is 
the Eugene Meyer Professor of Political Science and Philosophy at 
Yale-but in the age of the so-called "clash of civilizations," 
Benhabib could hardly have picked a better time tO turn that issue 
over in her mind. The Claims of Culture is a sobering assessment of 
contemporary cultural struggles and an inspiring, though ultimate-
ly unsatisfying, attempt to resolve a problem that afllictS democra-
cies today. 

The Claims of Culture: Equality and Diversity in the Global Era 
by Seyla Benhabib (Princeton 2002) pp. 216. 

Benhabib's motivation for asking the fundamental question of 
the book springs from a close look at reality. We live in a globalized 
world, she observes, in which democratic governments increasingly 
come into conflict with groups that demand recognition of their 
different ways of life and values, often at the expense of stability and 
peace. 

Cultural groups and s;paratiscs movementS alike make 
demands of democracies that often undermine democratic values. 
"Reflecting a social dynamic we have hardly begun to compre-
hend," she writes, "global integration 
is proceeding alongside sociocultural 
disintegration, the resurgence of vari-
ous separatisms, and international 
terrorism." The "Affair of the Scarf" 
· is one symptom of this new global 
condition, as are such disparate 
movements as the Tibetan indepen-
dence struggle, Native American land 
claims, Taliban fundamentalism, and 
calls for cultural recognition on col-
lege campuses. 

To dismiss such 
struggles over identity politics out-
right, as some cultural conservatives 
do, or as an invention of elites, as 
some Marxists do, is "bad sociology." 
Theorists of democracy, Benhabib 
warns, must confront issues of cultur-
al struggle or risk being irrelevant. 

Benhabib is a devoted liberal 
democrat foremost, and she cherishes 
the belief that human beings are 
moral and political equals. 
She 
believes that all people can communi-
cate with one another and come to a 
consensus if they devote enough 
effort to the cask In today's political 
climate, however, this is a gutsy 
claim. One need only look to a democratic country like Spain, 
where Basque separatistS are waging a violent, seemingly unresolv-
able campaign for secession, for an example in which dialogue 
seems hopeless. For precisely this reason, Benhabib thinks that 
democracies must be willing to negotiate alien customs, beliefs, and 
moral frameworks. Otherwise, they cannot be true to the defini-
tion of democracy as she sees it: a state in which "decisions affect-
ing the well-being of a collectivity can be viewed as the outcome of 
a procedure of free and reasoned deliberation" and in ·which "the 
institutions that claim obligatory power do so because their deci-



**Title: The Claims of Culture**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
sions represent [a] standpoint equally in the interests of all." To 
deny that it is possible to overcome cultural struggles is to forsake a 
key democratic tenet: that communication and deliberation are 
possible among all members of a state. 

Conveniently, Benhabib's radical conception of culture con-
forms to this '~deliberative model" of democracy. Most people tend 
to consider cultures distinct, stable wholes. For instance, when we 
talk about the Pequot Indians, we refer to them as a group of peo-
ple that share certain core practices and beliefs. But Benhabib takes 
issue with this idea and stresses the instability and fluidity of cul-
ture, the moments when cultures are themselves riddled with con-
tradiction. She argues that cultures should be conceived of as 
unfolding processes, not static wholes. One can think of Judaism, 
with its myriad denominations, as an example of a culture that is 
driven by internal divisions. Jews not only argue with one another 
about their own customs and beliefs; they also consider themselves 
members of other cultural communities. In more philosophical 
terms, Benhabib says that the inherent fluidity of culture depends 
on two crucial factors: the human abilities to reason critically and 
to tell stories about oneself. Because we can critically evaluate cul-
tures and identify ourselves through complex "narratives," 
Benhabib thinks that cultures continuously undergo transforma-
tions. 

Appeals to cultural relativism mean little to Benhabib. 
\Ylhcther we admit it or not, human beings share a basic standard 
of communication. The "clash of civilizations" is just a myth, and 
theories popular among postmodernists of "untranslatability" and 
"incommensurability" between certain cultures are "impatient." 
How else, she asks, can we explain the fact that other cultures are 
even intelligible to us? As long as two people sit down and try to 
communicate long enough, she argues, they can eventually succeed 
in having a meaningful conversation. This sounds a bit like what 
Benhabib is herself paid to do, so couldn't this just be a self-right-
eous philosopher myopically privileging her own profession as the 
basic mode of social interaction? No, she counters, "all moral 
beings capable of sentience, speech, and action are potential moral 
conversation partners." This leads Benhabib to sum up this process 
of universal human communication in one deliciously iconic piece 
of jargon: "pluralistically enlightened ethical universalism on a glob-
al scale." 

With this complicated argument under her belt, Benhabib 
undertakes the central task of the book: to formulate an ideal con-
ception of democracy in which identity politics have a place but do 
not undermine the integrity of the whole. Her tone here is not so 
much that of a didactic philosopher, but of a conversation parmer. 
She casually weaves her model out of comparisons and contrasts 
with more than half a dozen other contemporary theories of democ-
racy. According to Benhabib, there are three necessary conditions 
for her brand of multicultural democracy to take root: "egalitarian 
reciprocity," "volunracy self-ascription," and "freedom of exit and 
association." The first means that minority groups must possess the 
same civil, political, and economic rights as the majority; the sec-
ond refers to an individual's right to assign his or her own identity; 
and the third indicates a person's right to enter or leave a cultural 
group at will. On their own, these "normative conditions" seem 
like common sense--who today does not subscribe to these 
beliefs?-but Benhabib radicalizes them by establishing them as 
basic rights of a democratic system that permits "maximum cultur-
al contestation within the public sphere." In other words, she con-
structs a model of democracy in which all citizens can freely and 
continuously debate any kind of question-be it cultural, political, 
or economic-in public. The idea is that if it is possible for every-
one to voice critical concerns and to participate equally in political 
and moral conversations, questions of multiculturalism can be 
resolved in such a way that leaves democratic principles of inclusion 
intact and also respects an individual's right to cultural distinctive-
ness-sort of a college campus built on a national scale. 

Under Benhabib's system of democracy, the "Affair of the 
Scarf" would not have been an instance of "clash of civili:z:ations," 
but an opportunity for critical debate and exploration of "other-
ness." Her system would have allowed the three girls to participate 
in a continuous, free, and open conversation about the scarves and 
negotiate a solution to the problem beneficial to all. They could 
have expressed their reasons for wearing the headscarves and thus 
legitimated their cultural practices through democratic means. 

Benhabib admits that there may be some extreme cases where con-
sensus may be so difficult to reach that secession may be warranted, 
but those exceptions would be few and far between. In theory, eth-
nic wars and terrorism would be things of the past. 

Benhabib is aware of the rosiness of her model. But, she con-
tends, "The fact that a normative model does not correspond to 
reality is no reason to dismiss it:" Ideal models of governmenr can, 
at the very least, help us to evaluate our current circumstances more 
effectively. Yet Benhabib is ultimately unclear about why she has 
bothered to construct an ideal democratic model at all. Is it to serve 
merely as a critical tool? Or can it actually pave the way for con-
crete socio-political change? Near the end of the book, she hints 
that her model exists neither for criticism nor for socio-political 
change, but rather for the sake of transforming assumptions. As she 
writes, "A great deal of contemporary debate on these [cultural] 
issues has been bogged down by false epistemological assumptions. 
Once these assumptions are rejected, new modalities of pluralist 
cultural coexistence can be reimagined." 

I cannot help but conclude, however, that Benhabib's vision-
commonsensical as it may seem--demands nothing short of all-out 
revolution. Her model of democracy requires a levelling of power 
in society, and that can only be accomplished by actively taking 
power away from those who have it. Yet what corporate CEO would 
agree to rational deliberation with protesters who believe that pri-
vate companies have too much control over politics? What head-
master would willingly agree that 15-year-old girls should have just 
as much a say in the management of a school as he does? Benhabib, 
unfortunately, supplies no guidelines for actually bringing about 
her vision, despite prescribing it as normative--the way things 
should be. Would she support a revolution? It is hard to say, 
though it seems unlikely considering that the most famous revolu-
tions· of the past century resulted in the utter disregard of culture 
and the deaths of millions. In this hesitation lies the most frustrat-
ing turn of The Claims of Culture. Afrer grounding so much of her 
careful, and often illuminating, argumentation in the concrete real-
ities of the world, Benhabib seeks the douds just when we need her ' 
most. 

jacob Blecher; a junior in Davenport college, is associate editor for TNJ. 


**Title: Holy Smokes! Krispy Kreme vs. Dunkin' Donuts**
**Author: Tom Isler**
**Page number(s): 38**

HOLEY 
W
E'RE LOOKING AT A CLASSIC MATCH-
up here, folks, and the stakes could-
n't be higher. Think Liston-Ciay but a 
whole lot sweeter-and glazier. On 
November 19, the Milford, Connecticut, 
donut world will change forever. A brand 
new Krispy Kreme on Boston Pose Road is 
sec 
co square off against perennial 
favorite--and Boston Pose Road neigh-
bor-Dunkin' Donuts. The grand opening 
is part of Kreme's master plan to usurp 
Dunkin's worldwide donut hegemony. 

Kreme first established itself as a major 
player on the Connecticut donut scene 
with an October 8 opening in Newington. 
But with the Milford arrival, Krispy Kreme 
looks co cake one more geographical seep 
coward invading Dunkin's birthplace of 
Quincy, Massachusetts. Donut aficionados 
will be carefully watching the Milford bat-
tle. Ac stake is the eventual control of the 
New England Markee. I talked to a handful 
of nervous employees from the cwo fran-
chises, and though both sides cried co 
downplay the significance of November 19, 
ic's clear: They're hungry for victory. 

Krispy Kreme may have Southern 
charm on ics side, but Dunkin' Donuts has 
tradition-not to mention home-field 
By Tom Isler 
advantage. Connecticut is Dunkin's territo-
ry. And Bill Rosenberg is the president. 
Rosenberg, Dunkin's founder, waS already 
peddling his casry dough on Boston Pose 
Road before Krispy Kreme even thought 
about selling its first donut in New Orleans 
in 1937. Dunkin' has been a New Haven 
mainstay for generations. 

Some of 
Rosenberg's first employees were Yale stu-
dents, and there are 54 Dunkin' Donuts 
within a ten mile radius of campus. The 
global numbers are even more daunting: 
Dunkin' Donuts has more than 3,500 shops 
in the United Scates, and over 5,000 world-
wide. Krispy Kreme doesn't even have that 
many employees. 

Kreme may be the scaciscical under-
dog, but remember, Dunkin' had a big 
head start. It wasn't until the mid 1980s that 
Kreme expanded out of the Southeast. 
Their fresh go-gee-' em swagger gives them 
an outside shoe at an upset. And chen 
there's che secret recipe. In 1937, culinary 
entrepreneur Vernon Rudolph convinced a 
gullible French chef co give him the blue-
prints for his deliciously addictive yeast-
raised donut. Today, we call this donut the 
Hoc Original Glazed. Just how good is ic? 
Krispy Kreme annually sells about the same 
number of doughnuts as its rival--even 
though it has 4,750 fewer locations. The 
things just taste beccer. 

In cerms of raw power, both franchises 
have a loc co offer. Dunkin' Donuts has 
fifty-two varieties of deep-fried goodness, 
along wich some of che best coffee in town. 
The coca! mass of Donuts coffee served in a 
given year is equal to more chan one mil-
lion African elephants. The kids ac Kreme 
may lack this imposing poundage, but 
they're a lot caller. In cwo minutes, Krispy 
Kreme carf produce a stack of donuts as 
high as the Empire State Building. 

Dunkin' Donuts has nothing chat 
compares to the Hoc Original Glazed. But 
Krispy Kreme isn't overconfident. In face, a 
lingering question remains as co whether or 
not the Kreme can compete with the 
Munchkins-Dunkin's donut holes. The 
Donut's donuts are made by hand, and for 
· every round donut produced, the excess 
middle is sold as a Munchkin. Kreme 
donuts, meanwhile, are made by pneumat-
ic machines chat mold the dough into the 
perfect 
donut 
shape-sans 
surplus. 

Munchkins have been a versatile weapon 
for Dunkin' Donuts in che past, and there's 
no reason to chink this will change. In face, 
Kreme seems to have a major hole in its 
game-plan unless it can address che 
Munchkin issue. 

Expect to see a poised Krispy Kreme 
coming out of the gates on November 19. 
Ac the Grand Opening, there will be magi-
cians and clowns-and what more can you 
ask for? A free giveaway? The fuse customer 
in line gets a year's supply of donuts; the 
first hundred get a c-shirc. But if Krispy 
Kreme wants to be successful in the long 
run, they'll have co convert legions of loyal 
Dunkin's patrons. 

Tuesday isn't just another day. It's a 
battle becween the old and the n~w, the 
established and untried, the champ and the 
contender. On February 25, 1964: a 22-
year-old Cassius Clay became boxing's 
youngest heavyweight champion when he 
creamed the venerable Sonny Liston. On 
November 19, history just might repeat 
itself 

Tom Isler is a junior in Branford College. 


**Title: Y&tlc lJniversity ~ordially invites all New l·laven students in grades 2 - (, lo join the Ben (~arson Yale University Bool<. (:lub in partn~'rship with the New l·laven Free Public Library.**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Y&tlc lJniversity ~ordially invites all New l·laven students in 
grades 2 - (, lo join the Ben (~arson Yale University Bool<. (:lub 
in partn~'rship with the New l·laven Free Public Library. 
Yale University Trustee, Or. Ben Carson meets with members of his book dub on Yale University's Cross Campus. 
Yale University Trustee, Yale College graduate, and world-renowned neurosurgeon Dr. Ben Carson 
attributes his rise as an academic achiever to his love for books and reading. The Ben Carson Yale 
University Book Club has been created to promote reading as an individual and family activity. 
The Ben Carson Yale University Book Club is open to all New Haven students in 
grades 2-6. All Book Club members will receive a copy of the Dr. Ben Carson book, 
"Gifted Hands" and by reading books will earn points towards prizes each month. 
Club members will also be invited to special Ben Carson Yale University Book Club 
events on the Yale University campw;. 
Parents can sign up students as individual members. Schools, churches and community organizations 
running youth programs can also participate and sign up students up as group members. 
Individual and group registration forms can be picked up at all branches of the New Haven Free Public 
Library or at The New Haven Reads Community Book Bank at '-52 Park Street. Completed forms can 
be returned to any New Haven Public Library branch during the current open enrollment period that 
ends January 1, 2003. 
~ 
Yale University: Contributing to a Strong New Haven 
www.yale.cdu 

