Publication date: 10/94
Volume 27, Issue 2

**Title: Breaking the Bursar's Hold**
**Author: Gabriel Snyder**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Cash, class, and politics converge on College Street-ask anyone who's ever owed Yale money. 
Bursar's hold is by definition a pain. Fundamentally, bursar hold aims to coerce students into paying everything that they owe Yale, and to this end, bursar hold succee~s. Currently, only five students owe what the Office of the Bursar classifies as "sizable amounts." Yet as is the case whenever punishment is meted out, those punished quickly question the means of discipline and its severity. 

Any student who has not paid his or her term bill by the deadline goes on hold. Students on hold are officially not students at Yale. The Bursar may levy fines of up to $330 on any late payments. More urgently, students on hold can neither register for classes nor eat in the Yale University Dining Halls. Late registration can result in another $35 fine and the forfeiture of the Credit/0/Fail option. Students have to pay not only for meals at restaurants instead of eating contract meals at the dining halls, but also for all missed meals when the university resolves their account. In effect, Yale policy forces those who have demonstrated the least ability to pay to pay even more. And, of course, there are the dreaded lines at the Bursar's Office. The hours spent waiting in line can be costly, especially during the first chaotic weeks of school. 

Perhaps most importantly for the Yale community, bursar hold draws a very distinct line between the haves and the have-nots at Yale. "Why don't they just get some money?" asked one student walking by a recent bursar hold rally. This view illustrates the divide between the students who find themselves on hold and those who have the resources to avoid it. Yale will collect its money, one way or another. The school will expel any student who owes a large amount. To students who hope to stay at Yale, this is deterrence enough. In the interim, bursar hold seems little more than an unnecessarry harrasment or a stigma on students from less wealthy backgrounds. Many students from middle- and working-class backgrounds are driven off campus, in part to escape worrying about getting keys and eating for the first few days of school. To the extent that living off-campus means being less connected to the university, the Yale community loses the contributions of students from diverse socio-economic backgrounds. 

Every student who has been on hold has a war story to tell. Kathy Cassidy (ES '96) has been on hold three of her five semesters at Yale. "At this point, each semester I just expect to be on bursar's hold," she says. Last year there was a mix-up between the undergraduate Financial Aid Office and the Office of the Bursar, so that her financial aid was not awarded until October. "Students have a specific deadline for turning in finan~ial aid forms," she explains. "But the Financial Aid Office doesn't have any specific deadline for finishing the awards." Because of the delay, the paperwork authorizing her student loans was not processed. The Bursar's Office, however, still expected her to pay both her family contribution and the amount of her loan before she could even apply for the loan. Unable to cover this larger amount, Cassidy was put on hold. She managed to get off hold by "pleading" with the ·Bursar and borrowing from a family member, bur not before waiting in line for hours and missing seve·ral contract meals in the dining halls. 

Yale will collect its money, one way or another. Bursar hold seems little more than an unnecessary harassment or a stigma on students from less wealthy backgrounds. 

Criticism of the Office of the Bursar comes as nothing new. The office is still reeling from the turmoil that eventually resulted in the elimination of the actual position of the Bursar. Bursar Francis R. Nicoll retired three years ago in the wake of suggestions that he had made inappropriate remarks to students about their sexual orientation. Yale never filled the position again, and Associate Bursar Alberta Stephens assumed Nicoll's former duties. 

Although past grievances against the Bursar have usually been rooted in complaints against bursar hold, there have also been allegations of mismanagement within the office. Some of these allegations originate from the physical appearance of the offices. Papers and folders sit in stacks of piles on top of desks and tables crammed among a jumble of ancient and new computer equipment. After seeing the offices, one is not hard-pressed to believe that a form or a check might be misplaced and never seen again. Associate Bursar Stephens, worn down from what may seem like a constant battle with students, seems to welcome the opportunity to show that she is "not as bad as they say I am." She thinks the criticism she and her office have received is unfair. "Students have ro do their part, roo." 

The latest wave of student attention to the problems at the Office of· the Bursar began· last spring when the Black Student Alliance at Yale pur grievances against the Bursar on its agenda. BSAY circulated a petition that called for policy changes at the Bursar's Office and met with administrators, including Stephens, to discuss how some of the problems students faced at the beginning of each semester could be avoided. The Radical Student Front, Real Diversity, Poor at Yale, and the International Socialist Organization joi~ed BSAY to put pressure on the Bursar. These groups saw the Bursar as just another example of hostility towards Yale students receiving financial aid. 

Many also voiced rhe concern that students in bursar hold lines were disproportionately minority students. 

Beyond petitioning, the groups began a letter-writing campaign and staged several rallies. Last spring the groups presented a list of proposed reforms to Stephens pressing for three main changes: early notice before students were placed on hold; extended hours at the Bursar's Office, especially at the beginning of semesters; and a way for students on hold to continue ro eat in the dining halls. Discussion also touched on creating a system where resolving bursar hold problems, registering, and other paperwork could be taken care of in one place, or "one-stop shopping." Students also suggested a computer link berween the undergraduate Financial Ajd Office and the Bursar so that both offices could share information on financial aid awards. 

Political posturing has eroded the Bursar reform coalition that emerged last spring. Wildly divergent stories now obscure the facts of what actually happened. According to most accounts, rhe beginning of the 1994 fall semester was noticeably less rurnultuous ar the Office of the Bursar. At press time, no more than rwenty studenrs still remained on bursar hold. While it is clear that the Bursar instituted some changes over the summer, each group, anxious to claim credit for rhis fear, provides an account of events that highlights irs own role. Bursar's Office officials deny that student pressure played any role in the shorter lines this fall, but student groups are just as quick to portray the shorter lines as a victory for student acnv•sm. 

Nadjwa Norton (MC '95) of BSAY feels that in light of the changes made this summer, Bursar reform is a "dead issue." Austin Lynch (BK '97) of rhe Radical Student Front notes that Yale has shown "a tendency ·to concede just enough to prevent a groundswell of protest. This is clearly what happened ... indicating that with continued pressure we can get this university to treat financial aid students fairly." Norton feels chat students' pressure for an early warning system had a large effect. Instead of finding out that they were on hold when they arrived in New Haven, students knew during the summer that it was a possibility, and frequently were able to clear up the matter from home. Norton also believes rhat the computer link fixed some of the problems of communication berween the Financial Ajd Office and the Office of the Bursar. 

Bob Barnes (DC '96) of Real Diversity is nor yet ready to declare a victory. He feels that Stephens has not addressed the problem thoroughly. Barnes attributes the shorter lines this year to a simple administrative sleight of hand. He claims that the room where students on hold were handled was moved to the basement "so that rhe line was nor outside." (Stephens denies this and maintains that the room has been in the same place every year.) Barnes complains rhar students on hold this semester still could nor eat and that the computer link does not work. Barnes and Stephens do agree on this lasr point. While the physical hook-up has existed for several years, no integration of the systems exists. This means that for the Bursar Office to access financial aid information, the staff at' the Bursar must exit their system, access the financial aid system, copy the information by hand, and re-enter the Bursar system. Stephens correctly characterizes the link berween the rwo offices as an unfeasible tool for the Bursar staff. 

Barnes also points out that posturing has made everyone involved "fuzzy on what has been accomplished." Each group has a different version of events and a different lise of reforms conceded. Certainly, if Yale will change superficially to evade public criticism as Lynch claims, BSA Y and the RSF may have accepted university propaganda in order to claim a victory. "The problem is they (the RSF and BSAY] buy into Yale rhetoric too easily," says Barnes.