Publication date: February 9, 1996
Volume: 28
Issue number: 4


**Position: Name(s)**
PUBLISHER: Audrey Leibovich
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF: Suzanne Kim
MANAGING EDITORS: Catherine Bell, Kate Schuler
DESIGNER: Harling Wong
PRODUCTION MANAGER: Gabriel Snyder
PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR: Brendan Koerner
CONTRIBUTING EDITOR: joshua Civin
ASSOCIATE PUBLISHER: Min Chen
ASSOCIATE EDITORS: Benjamin Lumpkin, Hillary Margolis
RESEARCH DIRECTOR: Karen Jacobson
CIRCULATION AND SUBSCRIPTION MANAGER: Dan Murphy


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
A Brief History of Labor at Yale: A Timeline - Teo Gesing
Cramped Quarters: Inside Federation Politics - Gabriel Snyder
Perspectives on Work at Yale: A Photo Essay - Whitney Lawson
John Sweeney on Labor - Dan Murphy
Blue Collar or Blue Blazer? - Joel Burges
The ABCs of Student Activism - Alec Bemis
Beyond 80s Feminism: Local 34 Since '84 - Katherine Bell and Suzanne Kim
A Formal Response to Casual Labor - Karen Jacobson


**Title: A Brief History of Labor at Yale: A Timeline**
**Author: Teo Gesing**
**Page number(s): 5**


**Title: Cramped Quarters: Inside Federation Politics**
**Author: Gabriel Snyder**
**Page number(s): 8**
A resilient union alliance emerges from the close confines of an office on College Street.


**Title: Perspectives on Work at Yale: A Photo Essay**
**Author: Whitney Lawson**
**Page number(s): 13**



**Title: John Sweeney on Labor**
**Author: Dan Murphy**
**Page number(s): 14**
The New Journal talks to the president of the AFL-CIO.



**Title: Blue Collar or Blue Blazer?**
**Author: Joel Burges**
**Page number(s): 16**
GESO wrestles with a question of identity during its struggle for fair treatment of teaching assistants.


**Title: The ABCs of Student Activism**
**Author: Alec Bemis**
**Page number(s): 20**
An alphabet soup of student organizations attempts to combat apathy on campus.


**Title: Beyond 80s Feminism: Local 34 Since '84**
**Author: Katherine Bell and Suzanne Kim**
**Page number(s): 24**
The union's initial focus on women's issues gives way to new challenges.



**Title: A Formal Response to Casual Labor**
**Author: Karen Jacobson**
Amid administration and union propaganda, casual workers voice their own opinions about labor conditions.



**Title: About this Issue**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 4**


**Title: Points of Departure**
**Page number(s): 6**



**Title: Afterthought: After the Grade Strike**
**Author: Michael Denning**
**Page number(s): 30**



**Title: Which Way to Go?**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
·:c 
Which Way 
to Go? 
Microcomputer Support 
Center (MCSC) can help you 
head in the right direction so you won't lose 
your way. 
MCSC can help Yale faculty, staff and students 
chart their way to the new, promised land that you 
read about in magazines. We sell the mM. DEC, 
Apple computers and HP printers. We sell the 
most popular software so you can do something 
when you arrive. Our consultants can make sure 
you get everything you 
· 
need to work at Yale. 
We won't leave you 
directionless. 
175 Whitney Ave~ C·3 SHM 
432-6660 
785-5919


**Title: 1996 Labor Negotiations at Yale**

The 1984 drive for union recognition marked a watershed moment in the history of labor 
relations at Yale, a time that hangs over us today as a specter of former glory. This year's 
negotiations, while less glamorous than the universal fight for women's rights, has been no less 
dramatic. We have devoted this special issue to discussing the complexities of the 1996 
negotiating table. The difficulties emerge even more saliently against the background of the 
labor movement on a national level as well as at Yale. 

Labor activism at Yale over the past 15 years has coincided with a downward turn in the 
fortune of the movement nationwide. Corporate strategies focused on building cooperative 
relations between management and labor have arguably all but diminished the power of unions. 
Those wedded to the direct action approach for labor organizing have scoffed at 
management teams made up of workers in America's corporations. At stake is the future of 
unions' bargaining power during a time when corporations seem increasingly resistant to 
collective worker identity. Labor's strongest national voice, the AFL-CIO, has had to assess its 
role in reviving the labor movement. In this issue, Dan Murphy talks to AFL~CIO president 
John Sweeney to discuss his views on the future of labor activism and its impact on the current 
circumstances at Yale. 

As a university, Yale's relationship to its workers differs from that of corporations not bound 
by place or tradition. While other corporations can relocate in response to financial pressures, 
the university is much more rooted in its space. Yale's relationships with students, faculty, and 
workers is steeped in a tradition many would call paternalistic. Katherine Bell and Suzanne Kim 
focus on the political appeal of the clericals' and technicals' drive for union recognition in 1984 
and contrast it with today's union agenda, which has strayed from its original feminist stance. 
This year's negotiation struggle shows what happens when the field of bargaining opens up 
to the issues of race and class, in addition to gender. While gender predominated in 1984, this 
year, Locals 34 and 35 have had to grapple with added layers of worker identity. Yale's own 
preeminent labor historian David Montgomery writes in Th~ Fall of th~ Hous~ of Labor, 
"Although the personal bondings of families, migrant groups, young wage-earning women, 
craftsmen, strikers, voters, and rioters defined people's loyalties in different and often conflicting 
ways, all attachments were rooted in the shared presumption that individualism was appropriate 
only for the prosperous and wellborn." The collective actions of Locals 34 and 35 have 
challenged such presuppositions. Gabriel Snyder enters the actual office space shared by Locals 
34 and 35 to speak to the complexiry of building a coalition that is both politically 
representative and viable. Locals 34 and 35 have been trying to open up the terms of collective 
worker identity to include such previously marginalized groups as casual workers. Karen 
Jacobson compiles a dialogue of two casual workers' stories to contrast the administration's hard 
line. GESO has entered into the debate quite stridently by struggling to define teaching 
assistants as workers, challenging conventional notions of work in the university. Joel Burges 
analyzes GESO's relationship to a university resistant to recognizing it at the bargaining table. In 
an Afterthought to the issue, Professor of American Studies Michael Denning contends that the 
end of the grade strike does not mark total defeat for GESO, whose concerns will continue to 
prevail. 

In his book ~rk, Cuitur~, and Society in Industrializing America, labor scholar Herbert 
Gutman writes about workers' power to affect the development of their larger culture and 
society. A study of labor at Yale necessarily leads us to the impact that these struggles will have 
on the current state of labor affairs on the national level, especially in universities. Workers at 
Yal~om Locals 34 and 35 to casual workers and GESO--have the ability to change their 
roles in this university and at others. In a sense they are negotiating the terms of their working 
present and creating institutional history, a story that will speak to workers' movement after and 
beyond Yale. 
THE NEW JouRNAL 


**Title: A brief of labor**
**Page number(s): 5**

a brief 
of labor 
Yale maintenance and 
service workers strike to 
protest managerial policies. 
Design by Ted Geslng 
janitors, maids, maintenance, 
and power workers to organize 
under United Construction 
Workers Union. 
5 


**Title: A Tale of Two Tiers**
**Author: Dan Murphy**
**Page number(s): 6**

I know how a lot of Yale employees feel 
when they talk about not being respected 
by their employer. For the past two 
summers I've worked as a building janitor, 
a member of New York's Local 32B-32J of 
the Service Employees Union. I performed 
all your basic janitor tasks, like sweeping, 
mopping, moving furniture, and emptying 
garbage. For the most part, my co-workers 
and I were all treated with disdain by the 
"tenants," the executives and secretaries 
working in this Manhattan office building. 
Once these tenants found our that I 
was a Yale student, however, I meri.ted a 
kind of pseudo-respect. Though at first I 
was judged ignorant and lazy because I was 
a janitor, as a Yalie, I was immediately 
labeled trustworthy and brilliant. I was 
asked to help with computer problems, I 
was paid under the table to proofread 
business proposals, and I was even given 
box sears at a Yankee game to go out with a 
secretary's niece. 

My fellow janitors were generally not 
very well-educated. Some were dropouts, 
while some had done a few semesters at 
college. Working 40 hours of straight time, 
I netted upwards of $500 a week. For me, 
6 
that money meant 
I could buy my 
own books, beer, 
and food while 
putting something 
away for the future. 
For all my co-
workers, however, 
it meant that they 
could just barely 
keep their families 
in 
the 
lower 
middle class. 
I 
probably 
won't do the same 
job this summer 
because it won't be 
worth it. 
The 
building managers 
proposed a two-
tier wage system, similar to the one 
proposed at Yale, and I would fall into the 
second tier. That would mean that like all 
new hires, my pay and benefits would be 
set up on a lower scale. It might nor be 
worth cleaning garbage cans for only $470 
a week. 

32B-32J just ended a month of 
striking, fighting against this second tier. 
Until the very end, the strikers enjoyed 
little support from the general public and 
from other unions. Twenty years ago it 
would have been unthinkable that a union 
of 30,000 people could go on strike in a 
major union city like New York without 
causing a commotion. But business went 
on as usual. People were used to the idea of 
crossing picket lines and decided ·that 
starving unions is 
an acceptable 
management tactic. Management main-
tained a positive public image while cutting 
down their unions. 

Are New York's janitors overpaid? 
Possibly. As a janitor, I made almost as 
much money as my mother, a veteran New 
York City School teacher with two master's 
degrees. But by the time my co-workers 
lost their money to taxes (I paid practically 
none as a student), union dues, and check-
cashing establishments (many didn't have 
bank accounts), they brought home about 
$300 a week. In New York, that much is 
needed just to remain in the lower middle 
class. 

At Yale, however, and across the 
country, it seems people are beginning to 
call into doubt the assumption that blue-
collar workers deserve to live in the lower 
middle 
When 
blue 
collar 
employment is a way of life, job security, 
decent wages, and decent benefits are more 
important than any free Yankee tickets or 
phony respect. 
-Dan Murphy 


**Title: Yale's Brat Pack**
**Page number(s): 6-7**

When his mother and aunt showed up 
at his room on the first day of classes 
freshman year, Alejandro Montalvo (SM 
'99) realized he was going to have to make a 
few things clear. He asked his mother to act 
as if he were in another state and to give 
him advance notice if she wanted to visit 
him. Bumping into his mother around 
campus is a risk he faces every day. 

Alejandro lives in New Haven and has 
grown up in close contact with Yale. His 
mother works at Beinecke and is a Yale 
alum herself. And Alejandro is not alone in 
this predicament. A large faction of the 
children of Yale's faculty and staff end up at 
Yale. 

Aside from the obvious disadvantage of 
drunkenly bumping into the folks, there are 
benefits. These students have a unique 
perspective on the college experience. For 
years, they have heard what their parend 
think of the students they have to deal with 
all day, and now they get to hear the other 
side of the story. 

The odds of running into mom or dad, 
for the most part, are extremely slim. The 
offspring of union and faculty members 
rarely see their parents unless they make a 
conscious effort. The key lies in sitting 
down with the folks and clearly defining 
this new relationship. Adam Davis (TO 
'95), son of history professor David Davis, 
asked his parents to "understand that Yale is 
now my place." In the end, he says, he 
found himself "going home less than friends 
from California." 

Ben King (PC '96), son of Professor 
Robert King, an assistant professor at the 
Yale Child Study Center, avoided going 
home for the first few years. As a senior, 
however, he relishes the chance to venture 
home to do his laundry. "It weirds you out," 
he says, "you can go home and steal the 
couch or the fridge." 

Alejandro has an added complication in 
his life these days as a strike becomes 
increasingly likely. Although he supports his 
mother and believes that the strike is the 
right thing to do, he has made an effort to 
"distance his role as a student from his role 
as the son of a union member."What would 
be different if workers strike? "I would go 
home to eat and save some money," he says. 
THE NEW JoURNAL 



**Title: The Union Flock**
**Author: Elizabeth Embry**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Of all the various Yale facilities operated by members of Local 34, perhaps the most obscure is the Bethany Farm. Referred to simply as "The Farm," it is a 14-acre extension of the Yale School of Medicine located in Bethany, CT. 

Watching over the 30 animals residing at the farm is a caring man affectionately known as the "University Shepherd." An employee of the university for over 20 years and a union member since 1984, this Shepherd is the last of a staff that once included several farm workers. Of the two buildings in his charge, one is a barn filled with such classic farm animals as cows and sheep. These lovable creatures are used to make antibodies for immunological research. This is nothing new; the word "vaccine" can be traced back to the Latin "vacca" or cow, which was th e animal responsible for providing an antibody for fighting smallpox. 

The second building houses "purpose-bred" dogs and cats, animals raised and held in captivity until medical school researchers demand them for research and teaching. 

Although the Shepherd plans to honor the union strike, the farm will not be left without a Yale farmer. The Shepherd's supervisor will pinch-hit and rake over his employee's position. 

Yet, surely this supervisor is a busy man who will be juggling many different tasks during the strike. Even if he performs all of the necessary chores, business as usual on the farm assumes that there will be no open animal revolt. Although the university has established contingency plans to provide essential services in the event of a strike, it is difficult to anticipate what might happen if the animals, in a move of solidarity with their striking keeper, broke out to wreak havoc across the Bethany countryside. Perhaps animal union action would be more subtle: the cows and sheep might abstain from the production of antibodies, or the "purpose-bred" cats and dogs might try and find new "purposes" in an attempt to distance themselves from those for whom they were bred. 


**Title: Cramped Quarters**
**Author: Gabriel Snyder**
**Page number(s): 9**

The alliance between Locals 34 and 35 was forged during a job action, and every contract negotiation since 1984 has been punctuated by the threat of a hi-local strike. The recent decision to send Local 34 out before Local 35 was, therefore, unexpected. With a tinge of satisfaction in her voice, Deborah Chernoff, Federation of University Employees spokesperson, explains, "The decision was made to put a slight cramp in Yale's strike plans." 

While many immediately questioned the motive of the move, Chernoff defends the strategy: "It became clear in these negotiations that the university was going to use the economic fears of these people and wait it out. Under these circumstances it seemed a better course of action to minimize the impact on people." 

The plan arose from discussions in the office that Local 217-a union that represents hotel and restaurant workers in Connecticut and Rhode Island, including the staff at Mory's Temple Bar-Local 34, Local35, and GESO share at 425 College Street. In the small space, the leadership of the Yale unions are in virtually constant contact. Chernoff explains, "People started kicking the idea around over lunch, on some breaks, and in some little meetings that we have." By embracing the strategy, the unions have replaced the advantage of numbers with that of stamina. Chernoff continues, "We have our trust in each other and our suppon of each other and we think that ultimately that's the more powerful tool." 

"We have a very firm belief that everyone deserves a union, that everybody ought to be in a union, and that is the best way to balance the otherwise unrestrained power that corporations-and we include Yale in that-have," explains Chernoff. 

In the early 1980s, Loca135 attempted to organize the clerical and technical workers in Yale facilities in order to broaden their ranks. Between 1980 and 1984, Local 35's parent organization, the Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees International, spent nearly one million dollars on the effon to form Local 34. Similarly, when GESO began its organizing drive in 1991, Locals 34 and 35 contributed finances and office space to the fledgling organization. GESO now pays its staff with its own dues and help from the Hotel and Restaurant Workers. Chernoff notes, "Practically, more people are better than less people when your primary strength is solidarity." 

The federation shares its block of College Street with such bastions of university power and tradition as the Bursar's Office, the Flizabethan Oub, and Woodbridge Hall. Sharing the second and third Boors of the Ftrst Methodist Church at the corner of College and Elm Streets, Yale's unions have learned to live with each other. 

Behind the plain beige doors off College Street are the church offices; up the stairs lies the unions. Like the rest of the free space in the office, the stairway landings are used for storage-in this case old picket signs. A double door leads into a dim hall that also serves as a file room. Before you get to the receptionist, there are two rooms packed with more file cabinets and the copier. A meeting room, one of the more spacious areas in the offices, sits off of the first storage room. At the end of the hall, the bulk of the federation office staff performs routine organizational functions such as handling dues and bookkeeping. 

On the third Boor at the top of the stairwell, one room houses the leadership of Local 217, Local 34, Local 35, and GESO. With the room's high ceilings and light blue walls covered with union posters, there are enough windows to make the room seem bigger than it really is. Unlike the stereotypical corporate or government office, there are no panitions or cubicles. Despite the openness of the third Boor relative to the claustrophobic rooms downstairs, the entire space is vittually filled with clusters of desks that delineate "offices." The office furniture is a mish-mash of solid steel, pressboard, and vinyl. The floor is littered with copies of the New Haven Advocate and The NatU1n. 

ough the room appears to hold one compacted collection of papers and union paraphernalia, it is actually carefully partitioned. In the corner to the right of the entrance sit the GESO desks. Posters protesting the university's treatment of its TAs are used like wallpaper. In the opposite corner is Pat Carter's desk, the head organizer of Local 34. Robin Brown, GESO chairperson, and Bob Proto, president of Local 35, claim adjoining desks. All three are scattered with papers. 

Moving along the far wall, there are a few Local 217 desks, but most are taken up by Local 34 staff. At the end is Local 34 president Laura Smith's desk Covering most of the desktop are well-organized wire dividers with hundreds of manila file folders. Smith spends a lot of her time out of the office organizing, and her desk looks seldom used for much more than storing papers. Around to the right corner of the room is the common area of the third Boor where federation employees, Gordon Lafer (M. Phil. '91), research director, and Michael Boyle (PC '79), chief negotiator, have their desks and share space with the four union computers. Next to the computers are the Local 35 desks that , run along the wall towards the door. 

From a makeshifr office waiting room on the second Boor, acrually just a chair wedged in a comer between the receptionist's desk and the door, you can see the heads of the federation clerical staff over the tops of file cabinets and haphazard stacks of folders and papers. Most of the light in the room comes from desk lamps. On an overcast day the room 
9 



**Title: [What Happened to Citizens Television Channel 33?]**
**Author: [Not specified]**
**Page number(s): [12]**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
On February 6th Citizens TV Channel 33 became Channel 27.

You can now find crv and all its great community programming on Channels 27, 28 & 29 on Comcast Cable Television serving New Haven, Hamden, and West Haven.

Citizens Television, we're building community through media.


**Title: [Untitled]**
**Author: [Gabriel Snyder]**
**Page number(s): [10-12]**

is poorly"lit, but the mood is light thanks to 
Bob Proto. Dressed in jeans and a corduroy 
shirt, he leans against one file cabinet and 
jokes with the women in front of their 
computers. Though he is only a few yards 
away, his jokes are lost in the buzz of activity 
and the eternally ringing phone. 

While waiting in the chair by the 
receptionist's desk, your knees will jut out in 
front of the door. Most people walking in will 
probably say, as is common in the close 
confines of the union office, "excuse me," as 
they pass by. Laura Smith does this when she 
comes into the office. Dressed in more 
traditional business attire, she squeezes by to 
the IN/OUT board and slides her Tootsie 
Roll magnet to the IN column. The board 
only lists first names. Since there are 
apparently two Lauras in the office, Smith is 
listed as, "Laura S." Noticing her enter, Proto 
breaks away from his conversation and leads 
Smith into the open area of the hall. The 
heads of the two unions discuss a mundane 
matter next to the coat hooks. Rather than 
playing phone tag between separate offices, 
officials of each union run into each other in 
the hall. Lafer explains, "There's a lot of stuff 
that gets done by people walking by my desk 
or while walking down to the Xerox 
machine." 

f the mechanics of the alliance between the 
unions are calibrated in the halls, overall 
strategy is handled in more traditional 
meetings. After a day of fruitless contract 
negotiations, representatives of each union 
meet with Michad Boyle in the second floor 
meeting room. Today, the negotiating session 
only lasted 20 minutes and ended with a 
shouting match between Boy~e and Brian 
Tunney, university director for labor relations. 
Before the meeting begins, a list of attendees is 
lefr at the receptionist's desk. Matthew Walker 
(TO '85), research staff for the Hotel and 
Restaurant Workers, half-jokingly protests, 
"Why am I always put last?" The 11 people 
attending the meeting first crowd the hallway 
as the list is checked again; they then file into 
the meeting room. 

The physical relationship in the office has 
an influence on and reflects the political 
relationship of the three unions. As Lafer 
explains, "I think the alliance has gotten 
stronger over the years both between 34 and 
35 and between 34 and 35 and GESO 
because you just get to know people and see 
what they're like and see what their jobs are 
like.n 

Aside from the intimacy of the office, the 
relationship between Locals 34 and 35 is 
structurally encouraged by their joint contract 
negotiations. Of the university's demands, 
many are targeted at Local 35, such as the 
two-tier wage system and cut-backs in the 
alternate work program during the summer. 
Though the university has argued that it is 
not conspiring to 'bust' the unions, Chernoff 
sees the proposals as a move to "undermine 
the unions' existence on campus," particularly 
local 35. "Cerci.inly the university has gone 
after Local 35 with a bigger axe than they 
went after Local34," she says. Still the alliance 
plans to have Local 34 strike first. Chernoff 
explains, "We don't look at it as Local 34 is 
out and Local 35 is not. This is a strategic 
decision we made together." She continues, 
"Local 34 members understand extremely well 
that even if the axe isn't aimed at their neck 
right at this moment, or at least not in the 
same way, that they'll be next." 

W
en Chernoff says "we" she refers 
o Local34 and Local35. GESO's 
ole in the federation is still in 
question. When asked if Locals 34 and 35 see 
GESO becoming a full partner in the labor 
alliance, Chernoff answers, "Obviously, that is 
going to depend on what happens and what 
path GESO chooses to pursue." 

For now, that path is likely to be largely 
on its own. As Lafer explains, "Right now the 
main focus is the Local 34 and 35 contract." 
As for GESO, Chernoff explains, "They're not 
an issue on the table." She continues, "We 
made a big commitment to them a long time 
ago, and we're going to continue to suppon 
them, but they are also an independent 
organization." 

Without a contract or recogrution, Lafer 
emphasizes that GESO must be willing to 
fight for itsel£ "Each group is responsible for 
answerin~for themselves the question of 'Do 
you have the will to fight?' It's not that 
somebody else strikes for you, it's that 
somebody else respects the path you have put 
yourself on to strike." La.fer argues, "It doesn't 
make sense for GESO to go on strike now. 
Right now, in the aftermath of the grade strike, 
we have to regroup and pull together." But a 
yellowing poster still hangs above Robin 
Brown's desk: "Three Unions, Three 
Contracts. Loca134, Local35, GESO." 

e the College Street office creates 
intimacy among the leadership 
the unions, the rank-and-file 
members do not spend much time there. Lafer 
explains, "If you work in the same cramped 
little space with people, you get close to them." 
But he admits, "I think the leadership has 
more of this day-to-day closeness." T he 
alliance has sought to encourage bonds 
becween members with Saturday workshops 
that allow small groups of people from each 
organization to meet each other. Lafer admits, 
though, that fostering a close relationship on 
the rank and file level "is a slow process that 
happens over time." Lafer continues, "There 
are real differences between GESO and 34 and 
35, and the way the alliance works is not on 
the basis of trying to make everyone feel like 
we are all the same." Chernoff explains, "There 
is a common thread for us, and it's that were 
employees of the same employer and that sort 
of defines our community of interest." 

To remind the leadership who that 
employer is, taped next to the door leading to 
the stairwell, a life-sized head of university 
president Richard Levin yells, "More 
Ammo!" 
1111 
Gabriel Snydn; a sopho71Wre in &rktky Colkgt, 
is production manager ojTNJ.


START NOW Call 789-1 169 
Repeat program without limit until Graduation 
KAPLAN 
The Mswer to the test question.


MICHAELs FLOWERS Ltd. 
Extraordinary 
Flowers & Plants. 
Creative Designs For 
All Occasions. 
Mc:llMI Oltselfer 
Fonnet Manage< 
of MY*$ Fbwer Shops. New 
Haven&&anfOtd 
(203) 772-2229 
VIsit us at 26 Whitney Avenu& 
New Haven, CT 06510 
· 
Our designers work for you.


YALE 
SYMPHONY 
ORCHESTRA 
Shinik Hahm, Music Director 
Saturday, February 10, 1996 
8:00pm, Woolsey Hall 
Sibelius ................. Finlandia 
Bach/Stokowsky ........ Toccata and 
Fugue in D minor 
Brahms ............ Symphony No. 4 
Saturday, March 30, 1996 
Berlioz ..... Roman Carnival Overture 
Debussy .................. La Mer 
Dvorak ............ Symphony No. 7 
Thursday, April18, 1996 
8:00pm, Sprague Hall 
Ginastera ... Variaciones Concertantes 
Copland ....... Music for the Theater 
Mozart ........... Symphony No. 41 
·All rickets are $3. 
Please caU 432-4140 for more information. 


1st Place 
"Best Ha ir Salon" 
1995 
NH ADVOCATE


Best 
Sushi 
:&. 
.... HAMA 
1.11 Place 
JAPANESE RESTAURANT 
EnJoy HAMA BOAT $4250 
CHEF'S SPECIAL OF SUSHI & SASHIMI FOR 2 PEOPLE 
Enjoy a wonderful variety of fresh Sushi and t raditional Japanese dishes. 
LIVE MUSIC Tuesday and Wednesday from 6-9pm!! 
1206 Dixwell Ave., Hamden 
(across from Chimney Square) 
Open for Dinner Seven Days a Week 
Dinner Sundoy-Thursday 5-9:30pm 
Friday & Saturday 5-1 0:00pm 
281-4542 
Lunch Tuesda F · 
11:30--2· 



**Perspectives on Work at Yale**
**Author: Whitney Lawson**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
(above) Connie Tyrell, Durfee's Sweet Shop worker, 20 years with 
Yale, Local35 member. "Because of the way Yale is treating its 
dining hall workers, I am against Yale's proposed changes in the 
dining hall system. There is so much talent and potential in the 
Yale workforce. Yale doesn't need to go outside that." 
(right) Mike Keller, Yale University Art Gallery guard, 10 years 
with Yale, Local34 member. "I've been at Yale for ten years, and I 
lhzve worked very hard here. I don't like the idea of subcontracting. 
I think Yale should keep the job in the family. As long as they have 
a good bunch of workers, that's who the jobs should go to." 
~ photos by Whitney Lawson/The New Jouma/ 
(on left) Kenneth M Brown, Sr., Calhoun 
dining hall second cook, 13 years at Yale, 
Local35 member. "Yale has a moral 
obligation to the hundreds of people that it 
employs. we have given Yale the best years 
of our lives. How can Yale, which is not 
even taxed, say that it cannot afford a 
reasonable salary and benefits for its 
employees? I started here when I was 18 
years old. Now I have four kids, rent to 
pay, a car to maintain. I feel very strongly 
that Yale should not follow national trends 
such as downsizing. Yale should show 
respect for the people who have given Yale 
so much of their time and energy." 
(on right) Curtis Greene, Calhoun dining 
hall first cook, 22 years with Yale, Local35 
member. "I'll strike because a work action 
is our last resource for getting Yale to give 
its workers a decent contract." 


**John Sweeney on Labor: An Interview with the President of the AFL·CIO**
**Author: Dan Murphy**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

Yale's 
union~ 
management struggle heats 
up, the organized labor 
movement nationwide is 
facing the effects of • lM--
. .;.· 
corporate down-sizing, 
challenges from within, 
and a stagnant economy. 
The labor movement has turned 
to john Sweeney, the newly-elected president of the-American 
Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Organizatiom (AFL-CIO), 
to provide progressive leadership for the flagship coalition of the nations 
most powerfol unions by re-energizing grassroots organizing activity. 
The New Journal interviewed Sweeney three months into his term and 
asked him to comment on the significance of negotiations at Yale and 
the prospects for organized labor heading into the twenty-first century. 
TNJ: How did you first get involved in organized labor? 
Sweeney: My father, an Irish immigrant, was a bus driver in New 
York City. He was a member of the Transport Workers Union and 
as a child. I used to go with him to union meetings. Mike Quill 
headed up the Transport Workers then-he was a great leader with 
a wonderful Irish brogue. Anyway, I saw how my father's union 
helped him earn a decent living to support his family, how it 
helped him get dignity and respect at work, and how it helped him 
send his kids to college so we could enjoy a better life than he did. 
Coming out of college with an economics degree, I knew I wanted 
to do union work, but the first job I could get was with IBM for 
$90 a week. After a short time, I was offered a job as a rep with the 
International Garment Workers Union for $60 a week-and I 
jumped at the chance. Working on behalf of working men and 
women is the most rewarding job anybody could ever have, and I 
feel honored to get to do it. 
TNJ: What do you see as your most important accomplishments 
since your recent election to office, and what's on your agenda for 
the near future? 
Sweeney: It was very important for me, in the aftermath of the 
election, to heal the divisions that had developed and restore a 
sense of unity, and we've made good headway on that. It was also 
critical to begin immediately to put forward not just a vision but 
also a program for change, so that we could build to meet the huge 
challenges working families face, and I feel we've done that too. We 
immediately hired pretty much .. all new top staff, including a new 
General Counsel who knows how to use the law creatively to help 
build power for working families. We have a new government 
affairs team (politics and legislation), a new head of public affairs 
to build a program so that we can speak out forcefully for workers 
and their families, and a new director of organizing to begin the 
most important work of all-growing our movement.] In just a few 
months, we have involved some of the brightest staff leaders from 
more than 20 national unions in developing a blueprint for 
action ... And all of the top three officers have been traveling the 
country ~peaking to workers and leaders-out where we should be: 
TNJ: Is there a nationwide change in the character of union 
membership/leadership? 
· 
Sweeney: Work in the U.S. is not what it was just a few decades 
ago, with the dedine in manufacturing jobs and the rise of global 
corporations. There are more women in the workforce, more 
Latinos and other people of color. The faces of our leadership muse 
change to mirror our membership-bringing more women, people 
of color, and young people into our leadership. We made good 
progress at the convention in October, but much remains to be 
done at every level, and it js one of our highest priorities. 
TNJ: What is the role of white collar workers in the future of 
organized labor? How does the interaction between blue and white 
collar workers effect union strategy? 
Sweeney: White collar workers are no less anxious-and no less 
dumped on-than blue collar workers today. Since I was most 
recently president of the Service Employees International Union, 
which represents hundreds of thousands of white collar employees, 
I think I understand well why these workers will be an important 
part of the future of the labor movement. None of us will succeed 
unless we come together to succeed together. As I said in my 
acceptance speech at the convention, from high tech co hard hat, 
no matter what the color of your collar, this labor movement will 
be there for you. 
TNJ: Graduate students employed by Yale as instructors are 
attempting to unionize. What are the pros and cons of unionizing 
individuals in fields not traditionally perceived as union jobs (e.g. 
graduate student employees)? 
Sweeney: The advantages of unionizing workers in fields not 
traditionally perceived as union jobs are obvious-the greater 
leverage to win higher pay as well as rights, the greater respect that 
comes with having rightS guaranteed by contract, the opportunity 
to achieve solidarity among all classes of workers. In the end, of 
course, every union is just what irs members make it. I cannot see a 
disadvantage. 
TNJ: As the American economy changes, how will the role of 
unions at American universities change? Do you see colleges as one 
of the strongholds for organized labor? How do labor situations at 
colleges and other place-bound institutions differ from those in 
ordinary business? 
Sweeney: Since universities are "workplaces" where a certain level 
of decent treatment and mutual respect among employees and the 
employer have traditionally existed (unlike many other workplaces) 
then university employees are rypically among the first to react 
when they believe that standard, and" their trust, has been violated. 
So it is very likely that employees at colleges and universities will 
form unions if universities do not give them the respect they 
deserve. This is not really new-it's been happening at a 
quickening pace for the past 20 years. Often, once university 
employees establish a new position of respect through their unions, 
the kinds of partnership employees are able to enter into with 
management are among the strongest and most productive 
anywhere. 
TN]: It's been suggested that Yale is attempting to weaken Local 
35, Yale's oldest and strongest union, by reducing employee 
benefits and by using casual workers and sub-contractors. Do 
unions, particularly those at schools, face a legitimate threat of 
being crippled or even broken in the near future? 
Sweeney: Any union (and workforce) will be crippled if employers 
get away with exploiting their employees or replacing experienced, 
decently paid employees with poorly prepared and poorly paid 
employees. That's a fundamental attack on every employee, and 
unfortunately, it's increasingly common for employers to follow 
these short-term gains, long-term pain strategies. But workers 
together have tremendous strength, and it's the power of workers 
standing together against these threatS that protect them. 
TN]: Yale has proposed a two-tier wage system with a lower pay 
and benefit scale for new hires. What are the dangers of 
implementing such a system? 
Sweeney: A two-tier system is simply an invitation for employers to 
try even harder to replace more experienced, better paid employees 
with "cheaper" employees. It pits workers against workers, so it's 
the "classic divide-and-conquer" tactic. Ironically, where two-tier 
systems have been allowed to happen, they also work out badly for 
employers because they create such huge morale problems. 
TN]: Some students believe that Yale's workers are weakening Yale 
by demanding higher pay, threatening to strike, and bringing 
negative media attention to the university. How do Yale students 
benefit from the presence of a strong organized labor force on 
campus? 
Sweeney: If decent living standards and power for workers are a 
problem, bring them on! Seriously, how in the world would it 
"damage" Yale for its students to see that respect for work and for 
the importance of work are still valued in this society-and that 
some people are willing to stand up for it. Workers who have a 
voice in their jobs are more productive employees, and their 
workplaces gain because of it. 
TNJ: What possible roles do you see for Yale undergraduates 
concerned about the outcome of these labor negotiations? 
Sweeney: Fortunately, students have often been at the front of 
social change. Whether it's as basic as petitions to show support, 
participating in community outreach to build support or more 
creative tactics, students can be a powerful force. 
TN]: In 1984, Yale experienced a ten-week strike as irs clerical and 
technical workers fought for unionization. Did the national AFL-
CIO play a role in supporting Yale's unions at that time? In your 
opinion did that strike and subsequent unionization have 
ramifications for organized labor as a whole? 
Sweeney: The AFL-CIO supported that strike. The visibility of 
that strike was a huge boost to organized labor. It gave workers 
nationwide courage to see employees at a "glamorous" place like 
Yale stand up for their righrs .... We would welcome an opportunity 
to help if the Yale unions feel they need help from us. As I said 
earlier, solidarity is the only way any of us can be strong. 
IIIJ , 
Dan Murphy. a sophomort in Timothy Dwight Colkgt, is circuLztion 
and subscription managtr o[fNJ. 



**Title: Blue Collar or Blue Blazer?**
**Author: Joel Burges**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
GESO labors to define a 
collective identity as it 
struggles with the 
university. 

Blue Collar or ·Blue Blazer? 
G 
ESO had reached its breaking point. On the evening of 
January 14, a portion of the membership of the Graduate 
Employees and Students Organization filled a classroom 
in William L. Harkness Hall. But that night, graduate 
students were not in WLH 119 to learn. They were there to vote. 
Corey Robin (GRD '96) stood. He read a statement expressing the 
leadership's admiration for the teaching assistants who had followed 
through on their commitment to the grade strike begun in 
December 1995. However, he explained, it was beginning to look as 
though the grade strike was driven by only a faction of GESO. The 
leadership recommended that the strike come to an end. 

When the floor opened for discussion, some members stressed 
the need to continue support for the three teaching assistants-
Diana Paton (GRD '99), Cynthia Young (GRD '98), and Nilanjana 
Dasgupta (GRD '98)-who had charges brought against them by 
David Davis, professor of history, Sara Suleri Goodyear, professor of 
English, and a member of the psychology department, respectively. 
Still others agreed that the strike should end. "Our first reaction to 
ending the strike was strongly opposed," Christopher Cobb (GRD 
'96) explains. "It was hard to get past that and reason through that 
we had much to lose and little to gain by continuing." 

Since December, a number of graduate students in GESO had 
considered the grade strike to be an ill-conceived and unethical 
course of action. Had GESO better prepared-perhaps even 
organized-undergraduates for the job action, feelings towards 
GESO might have been less hostile. Without undergraduate 
hostiliry, the argument goes, more graduate students would have 
been committed to upholding the grade strike. In the face of this 
adversiry, compounded by threats of administrative action, many 
graduate students turned in grades even though they had promised 
GESO they would not. The uniry of a group ostensibly acting 
collectively began to disintegrate, and what one graduate student 
called a "crisis of trust" came to a head that night in WLH as ballots 
were cast, and the grade strike carne to an end. 

"The meeting was extraordinary in every sense. Conversations 
were heated and heart-felt," Tom Thurston (GRD '96) says. "It was 
a very difficult decision to come to-my own position changed 
during the meeting." Thurston went into the meeting in favor of 
the strike's cancellation. He thought that they would then be able to 
walk out with Locals 34 and 35 if they voted to strike that Friday. In 
the course of the meeting, it became evident that the grade strike 
would end, but just what the end meant was unclear. About halfway 
through, Thurston realized that the leadership had no intention of 
recommending another job action so soon after the grade strike. He 
then decided to change his vote and cast his ballot in favor of 
continuing the grade strike. Although others may have arrived at the 
same conclusion as Thurston, some felt confused and angry by what 
they perceived as a sudden about-face on the part of the leadership. 

T
he impulse among graduate students to unionize and the 
factionalization that GESO experienced the ~ight of the 
emergency meeting both arise from problems inherent to the 
idea that students can also be workers. A myth circulates that Yale 
hires graduate students as teaching assistants to create a relationship


--- Page 17 ---

of mentor and apprentice between professor and student. Some 
graduate students argue that such a relationship is the invention of 
the administration, that the "myth of mentorship" is a misguided 
attempt by administrators to splinter "student" and "employee" 
into mutually exclusive categories. 

"To say that one cannot be simultaneously a student and an 
employee of the same institution makes as little sense as saying that 
one cannot be both a woman and black," Diana Paton contends. 
Thurston suggests that the reasoning behind the split is based upon 
a view of graduate students as people who are "just passing 
through," upon identifying them as "temporary residents." 

When detractors of GESO refer to Tom Thurston and other 
graduate students as academic transients, it bothers him: "I get tired 
of that," he says. "My daughter started kindergarten in the Hamden 
School District. She's in fifth grade now. We have roots in this 
community." Unlike many graduate students, Thurston has a 
history as a worker and feels he knows when he is working. From 
1978 to 1986, Thurston worked as a machine operator in a food 
processing plant in Los Angeles. He was also a shop steward for the 
Teamsters union for about four of the nine years that he worked in a 
California warehouse. He is not trying to claim that his working 
class background makes it immediately evident to him that what he 
does is work, but, rather, that his past experience in the workplace 
informs his belief that GESO should be recognized as a collective 
bargaining unit. 

Kathleen Clark (GRD '97), a leader in GESO, locates the seed 
of her dissatisfaction with her working conditions by emphasizing 
Yale's failure to construct a pedagogical relationship between 
graduate students and faculty. "I fail to see how learning precludes 
working," she says. "I have never encountered any evidence to 
support the claim that the primary purpose of my work as a TA is to 
contribute to my education." Her language also reveals an abstract, 
academic understanding of her situation. "When I have applied for 
jobs in the history department and the women's studies department, 
I have been asked to demonstrate my qualifications for teaching a 
particular course." She says, "I have never been asked, for example, 
'Which teaching opportunity do you think would best contribute to 
your education at Yale?' or 'What would you most like to learn 
about teaching?' There is no teaching requirement for my degree. I 
have never received any pedagogical instruction from a member of 
the faculty [about how to teach]." Clark's sense of herself as a 
worker coupled with her background among the cultural elite 
complicates her relationship to a drive for unionization. The 
complication comes from a pervasive image of intellectuals as 
upper-middle class and unionized laborers as working class. 

But the stories Clark and other graduate students tell suggest 
that the impulse to organize collectively may not depend on the 
socioeconomic class to which one belongs. Changes in the working 
conditions of any group may lead to unionization. 

"The experience that made it clearest to me that my teaching 
was work carne at the beginning of my fourth year. The year before 
I'd TA'd for the Shakespeare lecture both semesters," comments 
Christopher Cobb. "I decided I needed to broaden my teaching 
experience. So I listed 'Pope and Swift' and 'Milton' as my two top 
choices for the fall term." After the English department bumped 
him out of "Pope and Swift," he thought he might find room in 
"Milton" because there were too few TAs and too many students. 
But an associate director of undergraduate studies in the English 
department told him, at that point, that they needed him in the 
Shakespeare class once again. 

Cobb's story, like Clark's, suggests that teaching assistantships 
have nothing to do with mentorship, but, rather, the supply and 
demand of the academic marketplace we call shopping period. "I 
was doing a job because it needed to be done," Cobb remarks, "and 
any benefit that work had for me as training for my future career 
was only fortuitous." 

he impulse to organize and the problems it engenders found 
one culmination in the recent disciplinary hearings that 
Cynthia Young, Nilanjana Dasgupta, and Diana Paton faced. 


--- Page 18 ---

**Title: The April 6, 1995, GESO rally held outside Sterling Memorial Library.**
**Author: Joel Burges**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The April 6, 1995, GESO rally held outside Sterling Memorial Library. 
coalition like GESO organize against a 
common adversary, but with a shared sense 
of purpose and strategy in mind as well. 
Essentially, GESO needs to function 
collectively. 

This lack of collectivity has been a 
problem, some sources argue, because 
GESO has moved away from a democratic 
model to a vanguard one. The democratic 
model works from the bottom up. The 
vanguard functions from the top down, 
making decisions without always 
considering the opinions of its membership. 
One vanguard action by GE$0, one source 
believes, was the grade strike, in which at 
least a faction of the organization felt 
intimidated by organizers and leaders to 
participate. But the GESO leadership does 
not view its internal strategies to organize 
job actions as intimidating, suggests one 
source, because it has become so focused on 
fulfilling its demands immediately. There is 
no long term. The leadership wants 
everything tomorrow-a difficult task as 
GESO tries to negotiate such divergent and 
complex needs from family health care and 
medical coverage for same-sex couples to 
smaller sections and more teaching training. 
But the desire for 
immediate 
gratification makes sense in the context of 
GE$0, a young and largely middle class 
union. Historically, graduate students have 
come from the middle class, though there 
are certainly notable exceptions, and GESO 
has taken on a political project that has 
typically been a blue collar one. Blue collar 
unions have succeeded because they acted as 
collective, democratic units. Now it is time 
for GESO-what we might call a blue 
blazer union-to follow suit. 

Whether or not the leadership has 
completely abandoned the democratic 
model with which GESO began in 1987, 
many members are beginning to feel 
disaffected. The grade strike, a bold move 
to begin with, and its aftermath have 
hopefully taught GESO a lesson it could 
not learn in the classroom: the power of its 
membership to make or break an action. 

Fortunately, the central issue around which 
GESO formed-graduate student labor-
still drives the vision the organization is 
molding as it regroups and reorganizes in 
the aftermath of the grade strike that 
gripped the university for five weeks. 
Clark puts it this way: "I believe it is the 
task of my generation of scholars and 
teachers to organize, to secure decent 
conditions for what is becoming the bulk of 
our profession. I also recognize that it is 
young teachers and scholars like myself who 
have the most at stake. I don't expect any 
other group-either administrators or 
senior faculty-to take responsibility for 
securing what is, afrer all, our furure." IJI] 
joel Burges, a junior in Saybrook College, is 
on the staff ofTNJ. 


**Title: The ABCs of Student Activism**
**Author: Alec Bemis**
**Page number(s): 20-21**

H
ey slackers, Generation X'ers, jaded summer waiters, 
video store employees, M1V zombies; boy, do we have a 
group for you. Clinically tested, aimed right at the 
upwardly mobile suburbanite, the urban sophisticate-
it's SLAC. 

Come on! Everybody's doin' it. 

In the midst of SLAC's first public rally on February 1, 1996, 
Francis Engler (ES '96), a veteran of the acrimonious acronym wars, 
rattles off the fearsome armada of groups who have found a place 
under the recently-raised SLAC umbrella: YHHAP (Y~e Hunger 
and Homelessness Action Project), SJN (Social Justice Network), 
YUDH (Yale University Dining Hall) Student Workers, SNS 
(Students for a Negotiated Settlement), and the Yale Women's. 
Center. Still, SLAC, as the Student Labor Action Coalition calls 
itself, has not approached its full potential. Engler proclaims, "In the 
future dozens of other srudent groups encompassing hundreds" will 
join the noble flock: SLAC claims its place as the newest in an ever 
expanding body of student action groups trying to change the 
world-and brainstorming really cool initials in the process. 

Within the alphabet soup of student groups, SLAC has A 
through Z just about covered. Yale is wimessing an acronym gestalt. 
Why, just yesterday they approached the YCC (Yale College 
Council) for support. Today, members of TUIB (Tangled Up in 
Blue) provide a folk music backdrop to the rally. When you can hear 
their rendition of Bob Dylan's "The Time's They are A-changing" 
above the din it's almost interesting, but you wish the songbook 
changed with the times. 

True, the cause is new-well the name is new-but Francis and 
his merry band of SLAC' ers have certainly been here before. In 
demanding that Yale cease its unjust treatment of unionized workers, 
SLAC reunites the veterans of activist coalitions of the past few 
years. 

Let the images of spring 1995's SCRAP 187 (Student Coalition 
Rallying Against Proposition 187) take hold. This broad-based 
coalition of student groups protested California's anti-immigrant 
referendum with vigor and vim. Bask in the memories of last year's 
other spurt of popular protest-you know, the one which fought the 
bursar's hold in fall 1994. They had it all-bullhorns, posterboard 
placards, and the support of another alphabet soup: BSAY (Black 
Student Alliance at Yale), RSF (Radical Student Front), Real 
Diversity, ISO (International Socialist Organization), and Poor at 
Yale (PAY, of course). 

Obviously this is the outgrowth of a wildly activist student body, 
20 
a seething mass at Yale hungry to 'Gverturn the Man (better known 
to some as the establishment, Pete Wt.lson, or the Bursar's Office). 
They are well-versed in the kindergarten alphabet song and protest 
chants with choruses of"Hey! Hey! Ho! Ho!" They are legion. 

Well okay, not really. 

The big problem is that there just aren't that many eager activists 
on campus. Nevertheless the faithful persevere. One thing is for sure: 
prior to the emergence of SLAC in the last week, SNS had led Yale's 
activists in their fight for fair union negotiations for years. 

Well sorta. 

"Do you mean to tell me SNS has survived all these years?" · 
asked Dan Heller (MC '86), a veteran of the first incarnation of 
Students for a Negotiated Settlement in 1984. That an activist group 
with such a narrow focus has emerged during every union 
negotiation in the years since the 1984-85 strike is truly odd. 

Of course, with four years separating each contract, the group 
has to start fresh each time out. SNS was first conjured up in the 
spring term of 1984 as Yale's clerical and technical workers dashed 
with the administration during negotiations for Local 34's first 
union contract. Formed mostly by Dwight Hall regulars, SNS tried 
to provide a neutral meeting place for students on both sides of the 
lSSUe. 


When Locals 34 and 35 went on strike that year, ending 
undergraduate access to bad cafeteria food, clean hallways, and 
showers free of soap scum, the campus became polarized. SNS 
changed from what Heller categorized "a student voice, a fact-
finding voice" into a "pro-union organization." This was not a 
difficult decision. 

Karin Cope (BK '85), one of SNS's founders,. said it best in an 
October 1984 issue of the Yak Daily N~s: "We basically put out 
some really stupid statements and petitions which basically said 
nothing because they were so careful in their neutrality." 


This is a lesson today's SNS refused to learn. 

D
ecember 12, 1995. Today is the closest thing yet to SNS's 
shining moment. As an SNS press release later recounts the 
day's events, "Students staged a lunch-hour 'Eat-in' where 
lines of student ate lunches out of brown paper bags to symbolize 
what students will be forced to do if there is a strike of university 
workers in January that closes the dining halls." 

Approaching Woodbridge at noon, though, there is but one 
plump, white-haired Yale police officer wrapped up in his 
department-issue winter suit, complete with fuzzy navy blue collar 
and official police cap with fuzzy ear flaps. He is standing vigil in 
front of the gates. Well, perhaps calling it a "vigil" is giving him, and 
the event, a bit too much credit. Whatever he's been doing, he has 
been doing it since 8:30 a.m. After four hours freezing in front of 
Woodbridge, he is probably not pleased with this assignment-the 
kind of work an officer might get in his final days of police 
employment. This officer is in post-doughnut mode. 

Instead of being faced with "lines of students," about ten 
students stand on either side of the policeman. Brown bags are 
conspicuously absent, and the only sign of a protest is four or five 
posterboard signs: "Stop playing games with our education;" "Bag 
the strike not our lunch. Keep the dining halls open." Typical 
protest fare. 

In the Woolsey Rotunda two SNS members present at the brown 
bag lunch protest are chatting, moments after exiting commons 
refreshed by a fulfilling meal. After 45 minutes the "protest" has 
dissolved, and the plump member of the YPD has departed. 

A similar scene is reenacted the next day. Despite SNS's claims 
that it has no leaders, only organizers, it's easy enough to figure out 
who's in charge: Nick Allen (DC '96), Susie Jakes (TC '97), and 
Francis Engler. At least these are the people to whom you go for 
information. They each estimate the group's size at about 40 
members with about 20 students making up the organizational core. 
This seems accurate given the event's attendance. Matters get more 
muddled when I hear that some of the students present are 
technically not SNS members but sympathizers from YHHAP and 
the UFW (United Farm Workers). 

On December 14, a day packed with protests by GESO 
(Graduate Employee and Student Organization) and Locals 34 and 
35 at HGS (Hall of Graduate Studies) and the Office of 
Undergraduate Admissions, the final day of SNS's eat-in is pretty 
much snowed out. The SNS press conference, which was to follow 
on the steps of Woodbridge, has moved to 
the common room of Dwight Hall. 
Even after pushing back the 
conference's start by 30 minutes, only 16 · 
people have made it into the common 
room-more than half are SNS leaders 
from the previous afternoon's protest. 
Four members of the local press sit in the 
back along with a lone stringer from the 
Associated Press, the only representative 
of the national media present. 

The event is filled with fiery position statements from various 
student groups. That is if you can figure out which organization 
each student represents. YHHAP representative Jamie Lachman (ES 
'97) also belongs to SNS. Yale UFW's Cedric de Leon (BR '96), 
speaks on behalf of UFW (but not officially; he hasn't gotten 
permission from the California headquarters yet). Jakes shows off a 
large billboard at the front of the room with over 600 signatures of 
Yale undergrads who signed SNS's petition. She later tells a Ntw 
Havm Rtgisttr reponer that SNS itself claims 60 to 70 ... trtembers 
with a core group of 30 to 40; either a huge membership drive has 
taken place over the last day, or something is amiss. 

After the numbers have been counted and acronyms have been • 
listed however, one truth becomes apparent: the 1995-96 version of 
SNS is hardly thriving. 

N
ick Allen doesn't have much pride in his extracurricular 
career at Yale. "I got involved my freshman year in a bunch 
of different groups," he said. "I have a boring litany of 
failures." While SNS's other leaders don't couch their previous 
activist experiences in terms of "failure," they too have participated 
in a host of now-defunct organizations. 

Senior leaders graduate, issues are resolved, the public or 
membership of a group loses interest and poof .. another group falls 
apart. Soon enough a new group starts. At first, it must seem odd 
that at each group's organizational meeting the same five or ten· 
people are the ones doing all the talking. It's probably disheartening · 
that the same ten or 20 people are always in the audience. 

Allen realizes this. "There's this perception out there that there's 
this little group of activists," he said, "We're a group that son ~of 
bears this out, but I have faith that there's a broad layer of people out 
there that are jusr silent because they're apathetic or whatever but 
they don't fundamentally disagree with what activists are doing." 
21 



**Page 22 Advertisement:**

**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Alec Amis**
**Page number(s): 22**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I got involved my 
freshman year in a bunch 
of different groups. I 
have a boring litany of 
failures. 

The thing is there's little evidence to back 
this up. 

Students not already involved in these 
groups stew in th eir apathy. They are 
unaware when these groups coalesce and 
oblivious when they dissolve. They are out 
of the social protest loop. 

The apathetic become conscious of these 
groups only when their members are 
collec~ing signatures in the dining halls, 
when they're putting up posters, when their 
position statements are laid out in the Yale 
Daily New.f-when they're in protest mode. 

J
anuary 23, 1996. As the rhetoric from 
the unions and the admin istration 
mounts, SNS is moderating residential 
college discussions on issues involving the 
strike. Nick Allen, ·the SNS member 
running the night's discussion, strolls in five 
minutes late. Thirty minutes later no one 
the acronym wars. 
else has shown up. 

At the SNS meeting later that night on 
the second floor of Dwight H all, only 
eleven undergrads are present. Lamenting 
the low turnouts at the informational 
sessions, Lachman, who leads the meeting, 
rationalizes, "At least we got the message out 
that undergrads were talking about the 
strike." 

Discussion revolves around future plans. 
"Do we want to start working on PR 
this week?" Lachman asks. 
"Information," says Engler. 
Lachman 
corrects 
himself, 
"Information." 

Talk of information and organization 
dominates the meeting: restarting e-mail 
lists, making calls to SNS members who are 
out of the loop, assembling posters to hang 
around campus. A few central questions are 
repeatedly asked and answered: Who's going 
to. make the poster? Who can come to the 
meeting on Sunday? Who can call the 
phone list? Who can be at the service fair in 
Dwight Hall this week? 

Allen wonders whether they should 
form an official coalition for pro-union 
activities. 

A woman in a pro-choice t-shirr, who 
had remained silent up to this point, 
mentions that at the last meeting of the 
YPU's (Yale Political Union) Liberal Party, 
"They made a movement to be more 
. , 
acnve. 

Engler gets an idea a few minutes later 
suggesting, "Maybe we should restart the 
Social Justice Network?" 

Might as well get a few more groups to 
help organize, to spread information. 

February 1, 1996. Back at the rally. 
You would think that with all the 
emphasis on informing the public, the SNS 
platform would be a clearly articulated set of 


**Page 23 Advertisement:**

• BOX 
RsTOP~ 
P L U Sttiiiiiiiiii 
• Hassle Free Shipping 
•Packing 
• Gift Wrapping 
•Mailing 
• Copying 
• Fax Service 
• Mail Boxes 
• Pagers 
• Greeting Cards 
• Business Cards 
• Rubber Stamps 
• Courier Service 
•Resumes 
• Bulk Mailings 
• Notary Public 
Students: Consider shipping your belongings home 
instead of carrying them yourselves/ 
Ted & Gert Berube, owners 
60-C Skiff Street 
Hamden 
287-1560


Hair • Skin • Nails • Body Care 
February Special. Friends, lovers, significant 
others: Book rogether and both save 35% , 
on any hair or scalp care service. Cut, 
colour, perm, treatments. 
1209A Chapel St. 
New Haven, CT 
562-HAIR 
Mon-Sat 9-5:30 
Friday Evenings 
FREE PARKING L._ THE REAR OF THE 8 UIWING 


**Page number(s): 23**

Francis Engler (ES '96) contributes to yet 
another SNS strategy session. 

ideals, but you would be wrong. 

Francis Engler is still standing on a chair 
in front of Woodbridge Hall, speaking 
though a megaphone, outlining what SLAC 
is against: the two-tier wage system, 
increased subcontracting, the elimination of 
the alternate work program, and the casual 
worker program-under which homdess are 
given "exploitative" non-union short-term 
employment via a temp agency. He's 
especially against the casual worker 
program. This was originally a YHHAP 
protest, so this is a key issue. 

It seems like SLAC is finding a clear 
unified voice. Well it seems that way until 
coalition member and YHHAP Coordinator 
Dan Abraham (SM '98) goes and messed it 
all up again. He comments to a Yale Daily 
News reporter, "We're not taking a pro-
union srance. We're pro-worker and pro-
student." Not pro-union, just pro-worker. 
Oh. 

Puzzling over this morass of double-talk, 
thousands of students scratch their heads 
until blood is drawn. Once again members 
of the Yale Acronym Corps (YAC) have 
failed to state their positions with more 
clarity than the administration they attack 
for that very sin. 

It seems that abstraction has reached 
beyond the world of art and into the world 
of sound bites. 


**Title: Beyond 59% Feminism:**
**Author: Katherine Bell and Suzanne Kim**
**Page number(s): 24**

Six weeks into the 1984 Yale clerical and technical workers' 
strike for union recognition, 52 female faculty members 
signed an open letter to the Yale community, in which they 
drew comparisons between their own disadvantaged position 
and that of the striking clerical and technical workers (C&Ts), 82 
percent of whom were women. At the time, women constituted no 
more than 15 percent of Yale's faculty, and only 15 women held 
tenured positions. 

C&Ts striving for union recognition struggled to reveal the 
university's race- and gender-based discriminatory practices against 
its employees. Molly Ladd-Taylor (GRD '86) argued in a 1985 
article in Ftminist Studits that the average C&T salary of $13,424, 
less than the minimum for a comparable position at Harvard, fell 
far short of the average salary of a male truck driver at Yale 
($18,470). Women not only received less pay than men for 
comparable work, but they also found themselves amassed in what 
Nancy Cott (Hon. MA '86), Woodward Professor of history and 
American studies, calls the "pink collar ghetto," clerical jobs with 
low wages and little chance of advancement. 

The 1984 faculty memo authored by Margaret Homans (PC 
'74, GRD '78), professor of English, then an associate professor of 
English, and Cott, then associate professor of history and American 
studies and chair of the three-year-old women's studies program, 
stated "The discrimination issue is unresolved. And so long as it 
remains so, undermines the con1idence and well-being of all women 
employed at Yale and reduces Yale's attractiveness as a workplace for 
women." To rectify the obvious gender segregation of occupation 
and wage discrimination, C&Ts demanded higher wages, increased 
benefits, and the right to collective bargaining and participation in 
decisions affecting their workplace. And female faculty, who had 
also encountered Yale's resistance to gender equity and its lack of 
symbolic and economic recognition of their work, firmly supponed 
them. 

In May 1983, Yale clerical and technical workers voted to create 
Local 34 in association with the Hotel Employees and Restaurant 
Employees International Union (HERE) by a mere 39 votes. Almost 
a year later, more members voted to suike than had originally voted 
for the union. The C&Ts had succeeded in organizing from the 



**Title: Local 34's Strike: A Pivotal Moment in Feminist Labor History**
**Author: Katherine Bell and Suzanne Kim**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
bottom up a remarkably inclusive and democratic organization that 
brought together a network of women, many of whom had never 
before considered themselves either feminist or pro-labor. 

In one of its trademark unconventional strategic moves, Local 
34 voted in March 1984 to accept a partial contract which resolved 
all non-economic issues while preserving the union's right to strike. 
But in September, after months of negotiations, two-thirds of Yale's 
C&Ts hit the picket lines, joined by Local 35. Linda Anderson, 
administrative assistant to the women's studies program, recalls that 
her initial feeling of humiliation on the picket line was quickly 
replaced by fierce pride. Two years after the strike, she wrote in the 
feminist journal Frontiers: "It was the kind of action that changed 
history, like the rallies, lobbying, and demonstrations to gain 
suffrage, or to win the legal right to abortion." 

In December, the unions voted to return to work temporarily to 
collect desperately needed wages before the holidays and to avoid 
the demoralization of picketing an empty campus during winter 
break. The new strike deadline was set for January 19, 1985 the day 
Local 35's contract would expire. But in late January, both unions 
successfully negotiated their contracts, narrowly avoiding another 
strike. 

Local 34's strike for recognition has been written into the 
history of the feminist movement as a pivotal labor dispute in the 
fight for the economic and symbolic acknowledgment of women's 
work. It rode the crest of 1970s feminism, arriving in the midst of a 
national debate over the legal issues of comparable worth and pay 
equiry. But it is worth questioning the origin of the feminist 
elements of the labor dispute. 

Nancy Con believes that the focus on economic discrimination 
against women arose from the C&Ts themselves, while faculty and 
students attached a more abstract and self-consciously feminist 
rhetoric to the labor dispute. Anderson agrees that union organizers 
did not explicitly employ the term feminist. But, she insists, "They 
were extremely diligent about talking about the economic 
discrimination against women and minorities." According to Molly 
Ladd-Taylor, Local 34's focus on grass-roots organization and small 
group discussions ensured that the union's concerns derived from 
the C&Ts themselves instead of from preconceived ideas of what 
women's issues should be. Anderson remembers a sense of intimacy 
and strength on the picket lines and at union rallies as the women of 
Local 34 began to experience female solidarity and empowerment 
whether or not they labeled their experience as feminist. 

As the strike wore on, its feminist elements drew more and more 
attention. Faculty and students seized on Local 34's fight as a 
practical point around which to organize political action, a real-life 
performance of academic feminism. "The union drive and strike 
were women's studies in practice," Anderson writes, "a chance to 
apply all that theory." Hundreds of sympathetic students walked the 
picket lines and anended rallies. Many refused to pay their spring 
tuition and sued the administration for breach of contract. The 
Women's Center distributed pro-union literature and took charge of 
moving more than 300 classes off campus. Homans recalls that 
about 100 faculty members held a demonstration every Monday 
afternoon during the strike. Faculry support reached far beyond 
New Haven. Hazel Carby, professor of American studies, and 
African-American studies, who taught at Wesleyan University at the 
time, participated in a network of support for Local 34 that spanned 
American academia. Even the Modern Language Association 
censured the universiry. 

0 
n an unseasonably cold March 8, 1984, 4,000 Local 34 
supporters gathered to celebrate International Women's Day 
in front of Woodbridge Hall where the Yale Corporation 
was scheduled to meet. 

Twelve years later, on February 2, 1996, Local 34 and 35 
members gathered outside another Yale Corporation meeting. This 
time, the weather was quite seasonably cold, the numbers fell far 
short of 4,000, and the placards and buttons calling for respect were 
noticeably absen~ · 

Local 34's rhetoric has changed drastically since 1984 when the ' 
drive for union recognition drew mass student and faculty support, 
creating a sense of shared purpose and female solidarity. This year's 
labor issues have failed to fall nicely into a clear morality play 
between good workers and a bad university-at least in the minds 
of many students and professors. 

Federation of University Employees spokesperson Deborah 


---

**Title: A Formal Response to Casual Labor**
**Author: Karen Jacobson**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
A Formal Response 
., 
to Casual Labor 
Karen Jacobson 
To: Casual Employw 
From: Pnn D. Vailont, Associau Via Prtiidmt for 
Administration 
per day. Last week I worked 32 hours. I hope to get a job here, of 
course. What, cousin? Well, my man , I know you work 
construction and all, that gives you work startin' in March. Me~ 
there is nothing else. When the students go on break, we go on 
break. New Haven don't have no ot.her work. If I don't work here, 
I get no money, and I have three kids to feed. 
Rt: Union Organizing Activitits 
As many of you art awart ... Locals 34 and 35 of tht Fedtration 
of Univtrsity Employus have announced thtir intention to organize 
urtain of Ytzks casual tmpioyw for purpous of collective bargaining. 
Yeah~·~l'm a casual. Work here in the dining hall. Just hangin' 
out here to see if there's work. Been working here for 17 months. 
My man here has been a casual for three years. You know, I show 
up every morning, see if someone didn't show up for a shift. See, 
there are a lot of students working in the kitchen, and they don't 
show up. Or someone goes on vacation. Or gets sick. No, I don't 
know if I'll have work every day. Get usually 'bout 4 to 8 hours 
As part of their organizing activity, Locals 34 and 35 have 
~ attempted to solicit inurest in thtir unions by making dirtct visits to 
~ casual employus at their workplaces. Many of you have raiud 
J: 
qutstions about tht unions' activity. This mtmorandum is intentkd to 
~ 
I 
k 
o; 
answer the most common :Y as ed questions. 
:f i 
Qutstion: Must I talk to Local 34 organizers at work? 
Answtr: Absoluttly not. It is a violation of University policies for 
union organizers or others to inurftre with the work activitits of othtr 
t mpwyus. Thtrefore, if union organizers inttrftre with you during 
work timt, you should indicau that you are not on break and you 
wish to bt left alont. If union organizers approach you during your 
non-working timt, you should ful fru to talk to them or not, at your 
discrttion. l'Ou can ask organizm to leave you awne, and if they don't 
rtsptct your wishts, you should inform your supervisor immtdiattly. 


Did I sign a union card? Sure, why not. I mean, they asked 
me, and I want a job. But that don't mean nothing. I just want 
work. You're not tape recording this or nothin'? I don't care if you 
don't know my name, they might recognize my voice or 
something, and I can't lose this work. You're not recording? 0.1(. 
Yeah, I wouldn't cross the picket line. What, cuz? You'd cross the 
picket line? No, no, no, man, don't get me wrong, I don't want no 
strike. If there were a strike, I wouldn't get no pay. I wouldn't 
cross, but I don't know what I would do. I mean, I hav.e three kids 
to feed. 

Qutstion: What if union organizas attempt to contact mt at 
THE NEW JouRNAL 

home? 
Answer: Although union organizers can lawfully attempt to 
contact you at home, either in person or by telephone or mail, you 
have a right to privacy and you may refuse to deal with them. If they 
persist in bothering you, you may contact the University or New 
Haven police or bring the matter to the attention of Labor Relations. 

Come see me at home? I live nearby here, on Elm Street, a few 
blocks up. I couldn't do this job if I lived farther away. I have to 
come here everyday in the morning and all, so I just walk up here, 
come to the back of Branford. I wait to see the supervisor, see if 
there are any shifts. Or I get a call telling me there's work. Not 
just anybody can come off the street and be a casual. Had to go to 
Yale's Human Resources and fill out forms, so they know what I 
can do and that I want work. Hope to get a real job here someday, 
when there's an opening. It happens. Not often, but sometimes. 
What do I do here? Sister, we are everybody, we do everything. 
We done everything except cook the food. We casuals, we are 
better workers because we try a lot harder. Union workers, they 
set. They slack off because they have jobs. Not us. They say go 
sweep the floor, we sweep. They say go wash the dishes, we do. I 
get paid $9.06 an hour. That's not much money for everyone I'm 
supporting. Benefits? What? 

Question: Art union organizers allowed to pressure me even if I 
want nothing to do with the union? 
Answer: No. You have the legal right not to participate in union 
activities, which means that no one can lawfully pressure you to talk 
to them, to review literature, to explain your point of view, or 
anything elu. Moreover, no one can retaliate against you for 
participating in, or refusing to participate in, union activities. If you 
foe/ threatened or pressured by union organizing tactics, pkau "J'Ort 
the situation to your supervisor and to Labor Relations immediately. 
The University will investigate any threats and take appropriate 
action. 

No, I don't think nothin' is going to change. My man here has 
been working here three years. He ain't better off. Yeah, I've seen 
those pins people are wearing. "I don't want to strike but I will." 
Me, I got no choice. If there's no work, I don't know what I'll do. 
The union won't give me no money during a strike. 

Remember: You have a kgal right not to be pressured, harassed or 
intimidated by union organizers. If you have any questions at all, 
pkase ask your supervisor or call Labor Relations. 

Yes, I'm the dining hall manager. Usually casuals are just subs. 
Usually I'll call students first, then I'll call casuals. I call. No one 
should be here hanging out. If someone's hanging out I should be 
aware of it, and I will take care of it. 

lmJ 
Excerpts art taken from an actual ktter smt from Peter Vallone to 
casual workers on january 15, 1996. The casual worker is based on 
conversations with two workers who wished to remain anonymous and 
who are unconnected to those pictured. The words from the dining ' 
hall manager art a direct quote. 
Karen jacobson, a junior in jonathan Edwards College, is research 
director ofTNJ. 


**Title: After the Grade Strike**
**Author: Michael Denning**
**Page number(s): 30**

After the .Grade Strike 
n the weeks since the end of GESO's grade strike on January 15, 
a number of journalists, administrators and commentators have 
proclaimed the d~mise of Yale's gra~uate student union. B~t the 
reports of GESO s death are greatly exaggerated: GESO will not 
go away, and it is worth reflecting on the most recent skirmish in a 
battle which has lasted throughout the 1990s. 

The origins of the grade strike lie in more than six years of 
graduate student organizing, culminating in last April's vote by 
graduate students in the humanities and social sciences. In a ballot 
supervised by the League of Women Voters, two-thirds of the 1100 
eligible voters voted, and 78 percent voted for GESO as their 
collective bargaining agent. GESO won the support of an absolute 
majority of the graduate students in the humanities and social 
sciences, and no one--administration, faculty, or graduate students-
has publicly challenged the fairness of that secret ballot. 

In the eight months since the vote, the Yale administration simply 
reiterated its refusal to recognize the graduate student union, despite 
the fact that recognized graduate student unions exist at a dozen 
universities across the country, including the University of California 
at Berkeley, the University of Michigan, and the University of 
Wisconsin. The administration's violation of the academic freedom 
and collective bargaining rights of the graduate teachers was based on 
the flimsy case that the standards recognized at peer public 
institutions were not applicable to private institutions like Yale. 

Thus, the GESO decision to conduct a grade strike was taken 
afrer much debate and soul searching; every other means had been 
tried and exhausted. There have been forums, petitions, marches, 
demonstrations, visits to members of the Yale Corporation, and brief 
teaching strikes. And the grade strike was a difficult and controversial 
action: I understand that both the decision to begin the strike and to 
end it were the subject of heated debate and the result of democratic 
procedures. 

Despite the often ignorant and hysterical response of Yale 
administrators and senior faculty, the grade strike was not an act of 
civil disobedience; it was a job action, the legal withholding of labor. 
And it was not a violation of a sacred responsibility. Indeed, on 
December 2, 1995-before the grade strike began-the Collective 
30 
Michael Denning 
Bargaining Congress of the American Association of University 
Professors (MUP) not only endorsed the graduate student union, but 
recognized grade strikes as a legitimate form of academic job action. 
In a resolution adopted by unanimous consent, they stated, "We . 
believe that all academic teaching staff, including graduate teaching· 
assistants, have the right to collective bargaining, and we urge the 
members of the Yale University administration to honor this right. As 
members of a faculty union, we know that it is sometimes necessary 
to engage in job actions in order to achieve the goals of educational 
quality and workplace fairness. Those who participate in such 
efforts-whether a teaching strike, grading strike, or other academic 
job actions-do so not out of disrespect for education, but its 
opposite: out of a commitment to the value of teaching. We hope that 
such efforts will be respected, and in no case should they be the 
subject of academic reprisals. We urge our Yale colleagues to uphold 
these standards in the current unionization drive of Yale graduate 
teachers." The MUP has been a leading voice for academic freedom 
in this country for most of the century, and has often spoken out 
against university administrations that have violated the rights of 
teachers. The fact that GESO consulted the AAUP before their action 
speaks well of the thought and soul searching that went into their 
decision. 

The GESO teachers did everything to make this an orderly 
grading strike. They did their grading, and offered to write letters of 
recommendation for any undergraduate senior who needs fall grades 
for graduate or professional school applications. Their union set up a 
hot line for undergraduates who needed help. Many Yale faculty 
members quietly supported the grade strike by not turning in their 
teaching assistants. The teaching assistants and part-time acting 
instructors simply refused to turn in the grades to the university until 
negotiations began. 

Moreover, there were precedents for their action. In 1977, the 
Massachusetts Society of Professors conducted a grade snike in order 
to get the University of Massachusetts to negotiate in good faith. "No 
one took this decision lightly," University of MassachusettS history 
professor Bruce Laurie recalled in a recent letter. "As a result of the job 
action the administration began to negotiate in earnest. The Society 



**Title: The Yale Grade Strike**
**Author: Michael Denning**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
in turn released the grades, 
and a fair settlement ensued." 
"The point I wish to stress," 
Professor Laurie wrote, "is 
that much to its credit the The Apri/6, 1995, GESO rally held outside Sterling Memorial Library. 
administration did not resort to reprisals." 
The Yale Administration's response was to turn to academic 
reprisal and intimidation. They singled out three teachers-Diana 
Paton (GRD '99), Cynthia Young (GRD '98), and Buju Dasgupta 
(GRD '98}-whose participation in the grade strike had been 
reported by senior professors, and began disciplinary proceedings. A 
lockout of the striking graduate teachers from spring semester courses 
was announced. President Levin told a Yale College faculty meeting 
that the faculty should work to separate graduate students from 
GESO, beginning a period of informal pressure from senior faculty 
advisors that continues to the present. 

However, since most of the grade strike took place while the 
university was on break, the university press did not cover the 
remarkable groundswell of support for GESO from professors across 
the country. Hundreds of faculty members wrote letters and signed 
petitions calling on Yale to recognize GESO and end its reprisals. Two 
of the largest professional associations, the Modern Language 
Association and the American Historical Association, passed 
resolutions condemning the administration's actions. 

Indeed the university's own Disciplinary Committee dismissed the 
serious charges against teachers--violating "a code of conduct that 
respeets the values and integrity of the academic community" -and 
found them "guilty" simply of disrupting university business and 
disobeying a professor. 

T
he decision to end the grade suike was a difficult one; the 
members of GESO had to weigh the disciplinary actions, the 
responses of other members of the university, and the ongoing 
negotiations with Locals 34 and 35. GESO's compromise proposal-
the call for a "memorandum of understanding" between the 
administration and the graduate student organization, and the 
withdrawal of the legal language of unions and contracts-was ruddy 
dismissed by the Provost, even though this is the compromise that 
many faculty have been looking for. 

Nonetheless, the fundamental issue remains: the right of graduate 
students to organize and their right to collective bargaining. How 
does the administration imagine Yale in three or five years? Do they 
really imagine that an independent graduate student organization will 
not be part of the landscape? As one colleague commented to me, the 
only way that could happen was if they stopped admitting graduate 
students until all public memory of GESO was erased. It is worth 
recalling that it took seventeen years for Yale's clerical and technical 
workers to win a union. From the 1967-68 organizing campaign of 
the Association of C&Ts to the 1984 strike of Local 34 of the 
Federation of University Employees, there were years of organizing 
against the determined opposition of the university administration. 

For the crucial issue in any social movement is not the particular 
tactic, the grade strike, nor even the momentary settlement, the 
contract, but the organization itself: the heart of GESO is the 
building and maintaining of a democratic, participatory organization 
which continues to represent the interests of graduate students and 
higher education generally. 

GESO's success lies in its own organization. GESO's presence at 
Yale has made all of us rethink our common sense assumptions about 
universities, and has contributed immeasurably to education at Yale 
over the last few years. It is time for faculty, undergraduates, and 
administrators to join the members of the Federation of University 
Employees and stand up for GESO. With all its successes and failures, 
it is as much a part of Yale as the English department, the 
Whiffenpoofs, or The New journal. 
1111 
Michael Denning is dire~r of undergraduate studies of American studies. 



Print and 
Mail 
Services 
155 Whitney Avenue 
432-6560 
DX: 432-6274 
EMAIL: AFDLETIIOYaleADS 
149 York Street 
432-2679 
ALSO OFF£RING 
Full color copies 
Course materials 
Complete mall service 
Graphic design 
Affordable Copies 
Quick turnaround 
Offset printing 
High quaUty 
~ Pickup and 
-
deUvery 
Optical character recognition 
Network accessibility 

