Publication date: November 2009
Volume: 42
Issue number: 3


**MASTHEAD:**
- Editor-in-Chief: Ben Lasman
- Managing Editors: Haley Cohen, Kate Selker
- Designer: Aimee Marquez
- Associate Editor: Kanglei Wang
- Copy Editor: Elsie Kenyon
- Senior Editor: Laura Zax
- Production Staff: Timothy Shriver, Samantha Ellner, Helena Malchione, Abigail Owen-Pontez
- Members and Directors: Emily Bazelon, Roger Cohn, Peter B. Cooper, Jonathan Dach, Tom Griggs, Brooks Kelley, Kathrin Lassila, Jennifer Pitts, Henry Schwab, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, Fred Strebeigh, Thomas Strong
- Advisors: Richard Bradley, Jay Carney, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, David Slifka, John Swansburg, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Michael Addison, Austin Family Fund, Steve Ballou, J. Neela Banerjee, Margaret Bauer, Emily Bazelon, Anson M. Beard, Jr., Blaire Bennett, Richard Bradley, Martha Brant, Susan Braudy, Daniel Brook, Hilary Callahan, Daphne Chu, Jonathan M. Clark, Constance Clement, Andy Court, Masi Denison, Albert J. Fox, Mrs. Howard Fox, David Freeman, Geoffrey Fried, Sherwin Goldman, David Greenberg, Stephen Hellman, Laura Heymann, Gerald Hwang, Walter Jacob, Jane Kamensky, Tina Kelley, Roger Kirwood, Jonathan Lear, Lewis E. Lehrman, Jim Lowe, E. Nobles Lowe, Daniel Murphy, Martha E. Neil, Peter Neil, Howard H. Newman, Sean O'Brien, Laura Pappano, Julie Peters, Lewis and Joan Platt, Josh Plaut, Lauren Rabin, Fairfax C. Randal, Robert Randolph, R Anthony Reese, Rollin Riggs, Stuart Rohrer, Arleen and Arthur Sager, Richard Shields, W. Hampton Sides, Lisa Silverman, Scott Simpson, Adina Proposco and David Sulsman, Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Wilson, Jessica Winter, Angela Stent Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**

FEATURES
SNAPSHOTS
STANDARDS
OFF-TRACK - Rachel Caplan
FOOD FIGHT - Alice Walton
FEAR & CLOTHING - Kate Selker
MAKING THE GRADE - Sarah Mich
URBAN RENEWAL - jacque Feldman
IF THESE STONE WALLS COULD TALK - Corinna Lewis
POINTS OF DEPARTURE
PERSONAL ESSAY - Laura Zax
THE CRITICAL ANGLE - Max Ehrenfreund
ENDNOTE - Haley Cohen



**Title: OFF-TRACK**
**Author: Rachel Caplan**
**Page number(s): 8**

Graduate students are facing the worst job market in years. But some Yalies are forging an unlikely path to success.


**Title: FOOD FIGHT**
**Author: Alice Walton**
**Page number(s): 10**

New Haven public schools are revamping their lunch program. But can the students stomach it?


**Title: FEAR & CLOTHING**
**Author: Kate Selker**
**Page number(s): 13**

At Harold's Formal Wear, business is a family affair. Kate Selker takes an inside look.


**Title: MAKING THE GRADE**
**Author: Sarah Mich**
**Page number(s): 16**

Can a new generation ofYale-trained educators turn the New Haven public school system around?


**Title: URBAN RENEWAL**
**Author: jacque Feldman**
**Page number(s): 20**

Nirvana may be inaccessible, but this Zen Buddhist residence in New Haven is not.


**Title: IF THESE STONE WALLS COULD TALK**
**Author: Corinna Lewis**
**Page number(s): 23**

When it comes to the students, professors and lifestyles ofYale's past, the writing's on the wall.


**Title: POINTS OF DEPARTURE**
**Author:  (Not specified)**
**Page number(s): 26**

Roller derby, card collections, out-of-state politics and Veritas.


**Title: The Game Theory of Love**
**Author: Laura Zax**

PERSONAL ESSAY


**Title: Subject to Change**
**Author: Max Ehrenfreund**
**Page number(s): 28**

THE CRITICAL ANGLE


**Title: Audubon Outdoor Guide: New Haven Squirrel**
**Author: Haley Cohen**
**Page number(s): 31**

ENDNOTE

**Title: HOUSE OF CARDS**
**Author: Maya Seidler**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
HOUSE OF CARDS 
Everyone loves a good card game: 
Poker, Bridge, Go Fish - you name it. All 
who play understand the basic premises 
-kings are higher than queens and each 
deck has four suits. But suppose one day 
the cards dealt a different hand: acorns 
instead of clubs, dancing jesters instead of 
jacks, floral patterns instead of the num-
bers one through ten.· At the Beinecke Li-
brary, there are hundreds and thousands of 
these cards - cards · that speak their own 
language arid make their own niles. 


The Beinecke began its acquisition of 
playing cards in 1945 when Mrs. Samuel 
Fisher donated a set of decks dating back 
to the fifteenth century. But it wasn't until 
the wife of Mel bert B. Cary YC '16 donat-
ed her husband's expansive collection after 
his death in 1967 that this card catalogue 
really_ came into its own. Throughout his 
life, Cary, an American graphic artist who 
spent his life assembling a rich spread of 
decks from all corners of the globe, showed 
an appreciation for all things quirky. In 
addition to his eccentric and eclectic 
card collection, he founded the Press of 
the Woolly Whale, a private publication 
that only printed unique and marginal-
ized texts. Cary was not concerned with 
glorifying the already famous; instead, he 
wanted to explore the underappreciated. 


Cary's passion for the peculiar is ex-
emplified in his anthology of cards: hand-
drawn Apache decks, cards designed with 
cryptic Austrian lithographs, Amos Whit-
ney Co. aces that enigmatically read, "Use 
but don't abuse me. Evil be to him that 
evil thinks." Among the Beinecke's 2,600 
decks are cards originating from 26 differ-
ent countries ·and spanning hundreds of 
years of card-making, from 16th century 
France to contemporary America. 


The cards are categorized not only by 
their geographic and .temporal origins, but 
also by whether they are · playing or col-
lector cards. This distinction is what that 
makes .cards valuable· cultural artifacts for 
scholars. "I was .intrigued by · the concept 
of making a definite distinction between 
cards [manufactured] for actual · playing 
and cards created for. aesthetic purposes," 
says William Keller, the librarian respon-
sible for cataloging Cary's collection. "Rec-
ognizing the difference was the key to fig-
uring out how to descr~be the collection 
so future researchers could extract the cul-
tural meaning important for their work." 


The design of standard playing cards-
the ones fouhd on blackjack tables, in 
household game drawers, and up the ma-
gician's sleeve 
has never gone through 
dramatic changes. The non-standard col-
lector cards, on the other hand, can be 
read as unique. statements about the cul-
ture of the time. As Timothy Young, a 
curator at the Beinecke, notes, the design 
of non-standard cards is often as much 
a political and social statement as it is a 
creative one. "Through playing cards, one 
can read historical trends, the develop-
ment of printing technology, the com-
memoration of events and phenomena, 
and the mindset of people at play," Young 
says. The presidential campaign deck from 
1892, for example, could be an invaluable 
artifact for a historian of the period. The 
natural hierarchy of a suit also lends itself 
to social commentary. "The playing card is 
a kind of societal mirror," Keller explains. 


The immense breadth of the collection of-
fers scholars a means of comparing socio-
political artifacts from different eras and 
locations, an opportunity to compare ~ rd 
packs issued in a particular geographic re-
gion, for example. Through comparison 
of the court cards and other elements, one 
discovers differences that may relate to the 
contemporary material culture." 


The dialectic between standard and 
non-standard extends beyond playing 
cards. "Folk art has a linguistic and cul-
tural dimension that is very different from 
the aesthetic concerns of high art," Keller 
points out by way of comparison. "These 
two strands of development are part of 
larger-scale modes of interpreting language 
and culture." Even though serious analysis 
of cards may seem eccentric, their study re-
veals an important distinction between ob-
jects meant for a purpose and those meant 
for visual appreciation. Keller insists that 
his time with the collection helped him to 
"develop a theoretical toolkit that aided 
my later study of the history of art and ar-
chitecture." 


Yet the very consistency of "standard" 
cards contains a telling cultural narrative. 
Hearts, spades, diamonds and clubs unite 
the college kid on poker night with the 
grandmotherly bridge aficionado and the 
card sharks of yore. By deeming a stan-
dard playing deck as worthy of collection 
as a tangram-decorated English deck from 
1795, Cary endowed cultural significance 
to objects both average and unique. His 
collection at Beinecke thus invites students 
to look for historical narratives not merely 
in their textbooks and course packets but 
in the materiality of the every day. 
-Maya Seidler


**Title: ROCKING & ROLLING**
**Author: jessica Rosenthal**

ROCKING & ROLLING 
By day, they are massage therapists. 
Graphic designers. 
Teachers. 
Mothers. 
But when night falls, these women can 
be found rink-side, assuming colorful 
pseudonyms like Rinko Starr and Anita 
Chainsaw, lacing up their roller skates, and 
duking it out in the dog-eat-dog world of 
women's roller derby. 


They are the CT 
RollerGirls, self-proclaimed daughters of 
the American derby revolution, and Con-
necticut's first ahd only female flat-track 
roller derby league. 


But this clearly isn't the roller derby of 
the 1960s and early '70s, .a televised "en-
tertainment sport" comparable to profes-
sional wrestling, and often . resulting in 
on-screen brawls between skaters. 
Nor 
is it the scripted story of a misfit's derby 
paradise, a.S depicted in the Drew Barry-
more production Whip It! starring Ellen 
Page. This incarnation of roller derby has 
an entirely different flavor. 


The recent revival comes as a kind of 
revolution. It is female empowerment on 
wheels, a kind of third-wave feminism 
that is inspiring everyday women from 
all walks of life to throw on a pair of knee 
pads 
and perhaps a glittery tutu 
and 
roll out into jam formation. 


To the untrained eye, the game is total 
chaos. It is a blur of flailing limbs, pound-
ing music, and slippery spills. 
Learn-
ing how to fall is a must. Though players 
wear helmets, mouthguards, and wrist, 
elbow, and knee pads, broken bones and 
bruises are harsh realities. Parker Poison, a 
member of the league's all-star travel team 
known as the Stepford Sabotage, points 
out, "No one goes out there to hurt each 
other and we all try to play the sport as 
clean as possible." Yet, out on the track, 
competitive spirits reign. 
Excitement is 
palpable, adrenaline is pumping, and ani-
mal instinct takes over. 


Five players from each team will make 
their way into the rink to begin the first 
jam. There will be several two-minute 
"jams" within two thirty-minute periods. 
The girls form a pack made up of block-
ers and pivots of both teams. One "jam-
mer" from each team lines up several paces 
behind the pack. When the first whistle 
sounds, the pack begins to skate, with each 
player maneuvering to get the best posi-
tion possible in the cluster. A second shrill 
whistle, and the two jammers are off. It is 
their job to weave in and out of the block-
ers and pivots, racing to be the first jam-
mer to fight through the pack. Team mates 
within the pack try to dear the way for 
their jammer, while simultaneously block-
ing the opposing jammer from making her 
way to the front. Once the jammers make 
their way past the opposing pack, they 
race around the rink, attempting to lap as 
many members of the opposing team as 
possible. The more players they pass, the 
more points their teams earn. 


"Roller derby allows women to be all of 
those things that women are told they can't 
be all at once: smart, sexy, and athletic," 
says Poison. 


But dynamism, in this case, is a good 
thing. "This sport is new, and there is. no 
preconceived notion of what the ideal 
body is for roller derby," Poison says. 
"Some of the most amazing derby skaters 
do not have what is normally considered 
an athletic body type. But with our sport, 
there is a place for everyone to excel re-
gardless of their body." 


That's not to say that the ConnectiCut 
Rollergirls don't train hard at their sport. 
Stepford Sabotage practices three times 
a week for two hours and finished ninth 
overall at Eastern Regionals in 2009. And 
team members train off of their skates, 
working with personal trainers to boost 
power and agility. "Most of [our women] 
work full-time while balancing family," 
says one Stepford Sabotage skater who 
rolls under the pseudonym Sassin Assas-
sin, "and they still skate six hours a week." 


There is a movement to replace the ca-
cophony of brightly colored knee-highs, 
hot pink fishnets, or glitzy mini-skirts with 
standardized uniforms, and many players 
have traded in their witty aliases 
Eleanor 
Bruisevelt, Murphy's Outlaw, and Violet 
Riot, to name a few 
for their real names. 


But watching the girls skate around the 
track elbowing their competition out 
of the way, it is hard to believe that any 
amount of standardization could muffie 
these women's spunk. 
~ 
-jessica Rosenthal 


**Title: MAINE EVENT**
**Author: Katherine Reynolds**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

MAINE EVENT 
The political universes ofYale Universi-
ty and the state of Maine may, to the casual 
observer, seem more or less unrelated. That 
is, until a referendum for legalizing same-
sex marriage appeared on the Pine Tree 
State's ballot this October. In response to 
the news, the Yale Women's Center began 
a flurry of activity around campus urging 
students to help phone bank for marriage 
equality in hopes of influencing Maine 
voters when election time came. What 
was unclear, however, was how the orga-
nization intended to justify the legitimacy 
of their involvement in an out-of-state 
election. There are only 32 students from 
Maine at Yale, and Connecticut students 
cannot register in another state. A Maine 
native myself, I felt odd getting involved, 
unsure of how Yale students could appro-
priately enter my home state's politics. Do 
non-Mainers have the right to try and in-
fluence the voting choices of Maine citi-
zens? 


On the American political battle-
ground, Maine is usually overlooked. 
Nationally, its two electoral votes cause 
little uproar, especially since its citizens are 
able to divide them as they choose. The 
state's policies traditionally focus on taxes 
and education. But, as a state of older and 
98o/o white citizens, it tends to lean right 
on social issues, most noticeably in areas 
of "traditional values" like marriage. 
So 
when the Maine Legislature passed the 
Marriage Equality Act in May granting 
marriage rights to same-sex couples, many 
of the state's citizens balked. Conservative 
Mainers called in Californian petitioners, 
many of whom had been active supporters 
of Prop 8 in their home state, to overturn 
the bill. As a referendum state, Maine citi-
zens have a fixed period of a time after a 
bill is enacted to collect 58,000 signatures 
and push the issue to the November ballot. 
With the help of the out-of-state petition-
ers, the Marriage Equality bill went into a 
referendum, leaving its fate in the hands 
of Maine's divided citizenry. Just four days 
before the vote, the polls were exactly di-
vided at 48o/o yes and 48o/o no. 


In an effort to improve turnout, mo-
tivated Yalies began ca IIi ng thousands of 
registered Maine voters on a weekly basis. 
With the slogan "Yale for Maine Equality," 
some students even made the four-hour 
trek to Maine to go door-to-door and 
speak with voters directly about the issue. · 
In the weeks before the election students 
made over 1200 calls, and campaigners re-
turned from Maine feeling that they had 
truly made a difference in the prospective 
voting turnout. "I think, at the very least, 
if we didn't change any minds, we human-
ized the issue for a lot of people," said one 
canvasser. 


Despite the admirable intentions of the 
Yale students involved, I began to fear the 
effects of their actions. I myself was so di-
vided on the issue that I didn't even feel 
comfortable joining the phone bank. And 
if I didn't feel comfortable, how would 
conservative Mainers react to phone calls 
from liberal Yalies telling them how to 
vote? Would even moderate voters feel that 
their local politics were being undermined 
by the rest of the nation? 


Other Mainers seemed to share these 
concerns. Alan, a 44-year-old mill manag-
er in Waterville, Maine said, "If it's a state 
issue, it's people in the state that should be 
involved in the issue, not people from out 
of state. I decide on my own politics, so 
someone calling me and trying to convince 
me otherwise is just not effective." The 
older generation of Mainers seemed even 
more adamantly against outside involve-
ment from anyone on any issue. Gerry, a 
72-year-old retiree says he doesn't appreci-
ate political _calls of any kind, whether the 
agenda is marriage or road repair. "When 
the phone rings during election time," he 
says, "I don't even answer." 


Even Mainers who appreciated the 
Yalies' efforts questioned their effective-
ness. Laura, a 43-year-old math teacher in 
Fairfield, ME is torn on the issue. "When 
it comes to equality, it can't just be a state 
issue," she says. "But, outside involvement 
could be dangerous by turning Mainers 
away [from the polls]." Tao Mason (YC 
'13), a Maine native, shares similar senti- . 
ments. "I wouldn't be swayed by a phone 
call," he says, "but maybe they will con-
vince someone, and I think they could be 
satisfied with the small progress of making 
one person think harder about the issue." 


So was the presence of outside pan.ies-
including Yale 
detrimental to Maine's 
fight for equality? We'll never really know. 
But regardless of the strides made by the 
Yale petitioners, Maine and the coun-
try alike suffered a loss on the civil rights 
front in the early morning hours of No-
vember 4th when, with 86o/o of precincts 
reporting, voters repealed Maine Marriage 
Equality Act, 53°/o Yes to 47o/o No. 


Before I packed up for my freshman 
year at Yale, more than one person said to 
me, "You bring those people some good 
Maine conservative sense, you hear?" 


From the start, it was strikingly dear that 
many Mainers see Yale as a major epicenter 
of radical left-wing craziness. But maybe 
Maine and Yale are · closer than either 
would admit, if not with respect to poli-
tics but with respect to political practice. 
What matters to the Mainers who called in 
conservative· Californians to push the bill 
to referendum. and the Yalies who trekked 
400 miles up north is not a question of 
state rights. Rather, it is the conviction 
that some issues transcend state borders. 
• 
·..,...-Katherine Reynolds 


**Title: FLUX ET VERITAS**
**Author:  [Author name not provided]**
**Page number(s): 6**

FLUX ET VERITAS 
In 1951, William F. Buckley accused 
Yale University of training a new genera-
tion of atheists. To many, Buckley's po-
lemic against academic secularism might 
seem paranoid. But today, it is a challenge 
to find discussions of faith in a setting 
beyond the Divinity School, and it is an 
equal challenge to imagine the university 
any other way. "Religious students expect 
to be challenged here," says Greg Ganssle, 
a professor of philosophy at Yale. But rath-
er than adopt the pan.isan stance of Buck-
ley, many students of faith today choose 
to engage their peers on a discursive level, 
not merely advocating for the union of the 
intellecmal and the religious but also dem-
onstranng It. 


Enter the Veritas Forum, a Christian 
organization active at Harvard and Yale, 
and committed, in their own words, to 
exploring the "original understanding of 
'veritas' ," a word that appears in the mot-
tos of the nation's two leading universities. 
Inspired by Kelly Monroe's 1992 book, 
Finding God at Harvard: Spiritual journeys 
of 7hinking Christians, the first Veritas Fo-
rum held at Harvard that same year drew 
over 700 attendees. The Forum has since 
established over 80 chapters throughout 
the country. 


According to Nick Shelton (DIV '10), 
the organizer of this year's Veritas Forum 
at Yale, religious students have to shoulder 
the responsibility of campus discussions, 
moving from trite questions about religion 
and science to more profound philosophi-
cal queries. Not only would these deeper 
discussions give religion more intellectual 
credence, they would also advance the goal 
of the university to improve the life of the 
mind. "We want to target people who are 
intimidated by religion but are interested 
in intellec;tual ideas," says Shelton. With 
this mission in mind, the Veritas Forum 
invites students to discuss questions of 
life's meaning in a more casual· manner 
than the colleges' humanities depart-
ments. The 2009 Veritas Forum at Yale, 
held at the Becton Center on October 13, 
featured Dr. Jennifer Wiseman. Dr. Wise-
man, a NASA astrophysicist, spoke on 
·the intersection between religion and cos-
mology. Her talk is part of a conversation 
she feels the old science-religion divide 
misses. "Churches and Christian schools 
are sometimes heavily influenced by the 
perception that Christianity and scientific 
processes cannot mix, and that Christians 
must always have a 'defensive' stance to-
ward science." Wiseman continues, "this 
is tragic because our Christian friends can 
miss out on rejoicing in some of the won-
derful discoveries about our universe that 
reveal God's glory and creativity." Shifting 
the public perception of faith as anti-scien-
tific to one that can incorporate science as 
well is crucial for the non-religious. 


For Shelton, who studied creative writ-
ing at Mercer College in Georgia and later 
at Oxford before coming to Yale's Divinity 
School, faith isn't to be taken lightly. M-
ter graduating high school, he published 
a collection of 50 original Christian short 
stories, and he recently published a novel 
inspired by the "9/11 Truth" movement 
entitled 
Shelton 
speaks frequen~y of corruption, greed, 
and intrigue as evils in government, and 
he hopes to address them through Chris-
tianity. Shelton compares his work to that 



**The Unexpected Intellectualism of Faith**
**Author: Nicholas Geiser**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
. 
of the writer C.S. Lewis, who infused his 
' narratives with Christian overtones. 

Hans Anderson (YC '10), editor-in-
chief of Yale's Christian journal Logos, 
echoes Shelton's sentiments. Founded 
in 2007, Logos seeks to serve the Chris-
tian community first, but· Anderson as-
serts that Logos' audience consists of all 
"thoughtful, interested people," Chris-
tian and non-Christian alike. Still, the 
faith-based and intellectual aspects of 
such a forum cannot be easily teased 
apart. 

With figures like St. Augustine and 
Thomas Aquinas, Christianity has a ro-
bust history · of intellectual debate. But 
such an incontrovertibly intellectual 
legacy is by no means exclusive to Chris-
tianity. Within the Abrahamic religions, 
Maimonides and Averroes loom as the 
towering intellectuals of Judaism and Is-
lam. Yet it is the particularly Christian 
tradition of "bearing witness" to faith 
that seems to motivate exegesis and re-
flection. 

Therein lies what Professor Ganssle 
sees as an enduring misunderstanding of 
what it means to be religious. As Ganssle 
phrases it, "It's the difference between 
'believing that' and 'believing in."' Ac-
cording to Ganssle, secular students 
create a false dichotomy between radi-
cal, irrational fundamentalist belief and 
rationally "believing that" something is 
the case. However "believing in" some-
thing occupies a space between these two 
views 
by believing in something, you 
hold it both to be true and meaningful 
to you. 

The equation of belief with funda-
mentalism indicates an important prob-
lem with how we talk about religion, 
and one of the most meaningful con-
tributions of polemic organizations like 
the Veritas Forum and Logos to break 
down this equation. In Yale's multicul-
tural environment, students are used to 
interacting with people from a panoply 
of religious and ethnic backgrounds. 
But tolerance, some argue, sometimes 
misses the point of intercultural intel-
lecwal dialogue. "People are willing to 
tolerate far more than they are willing to 
understand," says Samantha Mosha (YC 
'12), an organizer of the Veritas Fomm. 
By substituting tolerance for inquiry and 
understanding, secular and religious stu-
dents unintentionally create a greater di-
November 2009 
vide between one another. 

The best thing religious students can 
do, Ganssle and Anderson agree, is to 
present their faith hon~stly and richly. 
Finding commonality with secular stu-
dents involves describing what it means 
to truly believe in something. Ganssle, 
Anderson, and Shelton agree that at least 
for Christians, this is ·not to protect reli-
gious students from animosity or ostra-
cism. Rather, it is to fight a subtle but 
pernicious misunderstanding of what it 
means to be a person of faith. Ms. Mo-
sha notes that she has only met three or 
four secular students in her time at Yale 
who have been sincerely interested in 
questions of faith and belief. It's in the 
interests of both parties 
and the goal 
of Logos and the Veritas Forum 
to raise 
that number. 

-Nicholas Geiser 


**Finding Enlightenment in New Haven**
**Author: Jacque Feldman**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

' 
ertewa 
Nirvana may be inaccessible, but this Zen Buddhist residence in New Haven is not. 

PETE DIGENNERO · CAN STILL remem-
ber when the venerable Maha Ghosanda 
of Cambodia paid a visit to his two-story, 
white-shuttered house on Mansfield Street 
in New Haven. "He was one of those 
people you meet and they just have light 
come out of them," he recalls. "He was 
like a big, huge sun." Digenerro lives in 
the oldest c:ontinuously operating center of 
the Kwan Urn School of Zen Buddhism, 
first founded by Zen Master Seung Sahn in 
Rhode Island in the 1970s and now prac-
ticed in chapters everywhere from Latvia · 
to Israel. The New Haven Center's history 
is palpable to those who live and practice 
there. "You can really feel the presence of 
the house," Digenerro says. 

But when I first arrive at the Center on 
a dark, windy October night, it's tough to 
sense any presence, house or human. No 
one seerns to be around; my doorbell-
ringing goes unanswered for ten minutes. I 
know almost nothing about Zen, and even 
this setting seems mysterious: only a small 
paper sign posted inside a front window 
marks the blue house as my destination. 

8 
By Jacque Feldman 
Getting closer, I read a weekly medita-
tion schedule and a phone number, but 
no other clues tell me what to expect when 
the door is finally answered by a barefoot 
man in loose sweatpants. He apologizes. 
It's difficult, he says, to hear the doorbell 
throughout the house. 

A golf course superintendent by day, 
Keith tells me he first carne across Zen 
Buddhism in 1991 in an undergraduate 
Religious Studies class. Not until years 
later, though, did he begin practicing Zen, 
coming to the realization shortly thereaf-
ter that doing so would be "the only way 
I was going to be happy." I am early for 
the meditation session, and he has time to 
show me around beforehand. 

The house balances meditation space-
the Dharma room, where a golden Buddha 
presides 
with living space. The shop-
ping list posted on the fridge downstairs 
supplements the staples of a healthy veg-
etarian diet with a few Eastern specialty 
items: miso, udon and soba noodles, as 
well as "ko chi chang," something so ob-
scure it doesn't even appear on Wikipedia. 

Above the fridge hangs a photo of a crowd 
of men and women, robed and smiling, 
underlined with the inscription: "Happy 
Holidays from the Kwan Urn School of 
Zen." Two huge bookcases in a living area 
contain works on spirituality from every 
branch of Buddhism and many world re-
ligions. One title reads, "Wanting Enlight-
enment is a BIG MISTAKE." On another 
shelf rests a signed photograph of a hockey 
player, inscribed: "To NHZC, Thanks for 
showing me the PATH!" Soft rugs cover 
dark wood floors, and rooms are lined with 
comfy couches. 

'1le was one of those people 
you meet and they just have 
light come out of them, , he re-
calls. '1le was like a big, huge 
,, 
sun. 

Meditation, though, takes place on the 
floor. My leg will likely fall asleep, Keith 

THE_NEWJO 

tells me, briefing me on Zen practice be-
fore the session. In that case, he says, I 
should bow and stand up without disrupt-
ing the room filled with about a dozen 
people in light-blue robes identical to the 
one I'm wearing now. "People think we're 
a little goofy with these things," Keith had 
said, ·laughing as he ties mine. The special 
square of cloth over Keith's robe indicates 
that he has completed training in the five 
basic precepts needed for membership in 
this school of Zen. 

As we enter, Keith demonstrates three 
of the four ways to cross your legs while 
meditating, leaving out the hardest one 
with the explanation, "Ifi were to take this 
leg and put it up here, it would break but 
that would be · full lotus." He tells me to 
stare at the floor in front of me and men-
tally repeat a mantra to get into "question 
mode." He suggests the words "clear head" 
as I inhale and "don't know" as I exhale, 
but I am free to choose something else: 
"You could do 'coca-cola' and it would be 
all right, as long as you meant it sincerely. 
The words aren't so important 
it's how 
you're holding your mind." 

Besides the technical details of sitting, 
Keith summarizes the story of Buddha and 
a few basic principles of Zen Buddhism, 
whose precepts boil down, he says, to "be-
ing a decent human being." As Ken Kes-
sel, the center's guiding teacher, will tell 
me later, the Korean words "Kwan Urn" 
-the bodhisattva in Buddism that the 
center is named after 
translate to "per-
ceive sound," and "perceiving the sound of 
the world draws you to-that sound," like 
a baby's cries draw its mother. Listening 
leads to compassion. But Kessel is quick to 
clarify that compassion isn't a goal to work 
toward; rather, compassion is "our original 
nature" 
roots that Zen practice can help 
us rediscover. Keith also emphasizes that 
the wisdom Zen practice brings must be 
used to help others: "This isn't the spiritual 
Olympics," he says. 

Thirty minutes of sitting and . doing 
nothing may sound simple enough, but 
Keith's words have left me a little ap-
prehensive. "We get a lot of people here 
wanting to chill out," he says. They think 
sitting will be easy. But, as Keith tells me, 
"it's really difficult. You're stuck with you." 

Others in the room will follow the first 
sitting with a brief interlude of "walking 
meditation" and then another full siuing 
session 
but as a beginner, Keith says, I 
0 
won't continue past thirty minutes. 

Sitting across from me are a couple of 
young men with ties visible above their 
robes. They look like grad students, maybe 
stressed-out, 
over-competitive 
medical 
students needing to relax 
the one on the 
left, with glasses, has a harried look about 
him. Next to them, a middle-aged man sits 
in a wooden chair; I guess he has a bad 
back or knees too weak to sit on the floor. 
Poor circulation, maybe. Brush paintings 
hang on the walls, and far to my right is 
the golden Buddha. It is customary, Keith 
told me, to bow when passing before it. 

uHe tells me to stare at the 
floor in front of me and men-
tally repeat a mantra to get 
into c'question mode. ~~He sug-
gests the words cclear head~~ as 
I inhale and caon't know" as I 
exhale~ but I am free to choose 
something else: ccYou could do 
coca-cola~ and it would be all 
right~ as long as you meant it 
sincerely. The words aren't so 
important 
you~re 
holding your mind. :1:1 

All the people here seem deeply fo-
cused, but what if someone looks up and 
makes eye contact with me? I concen-
trate on the floor. I memorize the grain 
of the wood and then try again to stop 
my thoughts. I breathe in and then out, 
a long sigh: don't knowwww. Clearhead 
dearhead dearhead, don't knowww. I feel 
pins-and-needles so I pull my leg out from 
under me 
and my mind wanders again. 

"The sitting is the key," Keith had said, and 
I feel a little guilty. 

Every few minutes, a bell rings and one 
of the experienced srudents leaves for an 
"interview" with Ken Kessel, the Center's 
guiding teacher. As a first-timer, I won't be 
called for an interview. I'm as relieved as 
I am intrigued. Viewed from the Dha rn1a 
room, the procedure seems a little eerie, as 
each srudent stands, bows, and exits the 
room soundlessly. Kessel lives in New Jer-
sey and comes into town monthly to con-
duct these interviews which consist largely 
of mind-puzzles called kong-ans: like what 
"the sound of one hand clapping" is. "The 
original kong-an," Kessel says is, "What 
are you; 

After the meditation, Pete tells me 
he first came to the center looking for "a 
spiritual home." We have put our medita-
tion robes away, and he has made himself 
a mugful of protein shake in the kitchen. 
Pete is now the cen!er's only full-time resi-
dent, but other students sometimes join 
him for his morning ritual, which begins 
with a 5:30am wake-up bell followed by 
bows, a chant, and finally, a sitting. Pete 
considers Zen practice everyday mainte-
nance, like tooth-brushing or gym-going, 
but even more crucial. "It's "part of my job 
on the planet," he says. In fact, he adds, 
ifhe stops practicing "it's just a matter of 
time before I misstep. It feels like a race, 
sometimes, between my dear mind and 
my discursive mind." Zen is powerful stuff. 

DURING A SECOND thirty-minute ses-
sion, sitting alone in the upstairs kitchen, I 
can hear sounds from the interview room. 
I'm surprised to hear mostly low chuckles 
and giggles from the students. The process 
had seemed utterly mysterious to me, but 
now one thing is dear: they're having fun 
in there. When I ask Kessel at the end of 
our talk if all the students have left, he 
says yes at first, and then corrects himself 
"Some people are sticking around to watch 
the World Series." I forget to ask if they're 
Yankee fans. 

Jacque Feldman is a sophomore in 
Davenport College. 

9 



**Title: Off-Track**
**Author: Rachel Caplan**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
FEATURE 
Off-Track 
Graduate students look for hope in the worst job market in years. 
MIKE O'HARA"' is on the academic job 
market for the second year in a row. Sit-
ting on a marble slab in Yale's Beinecke 
Plaza, he pulls out a single, typed sheet 
of paper that listS all the open positions 
in his field. "Best BetS" includes spotS at 
ten or a dozen universities, "Long ShotS" 
listS places at fifteen. Then, at the bottom 
of the sheet, there's a slim category called 
"Hail Marys." These jobs, it seems, might 
only descend from heaven as a result of ar-
dent prayer. 

Mike's wife, whom he met here at Yale's 
Graduate School for the ArtS and Sciences, 
told him not to talk to journalistS about 
his job search. In fact, he told me, he 
was sure that he would be the only grad 
student currently on the job market who 
would be willing to talk to me. Mike feels 
vulnerable, sensing he's under the hawk-
eyes of potential employers. In spite of the 
danger, though, Mike wants-needs---to 
get the word out about his and his class-
mates' experiences. 

"The mood" among his classmates, 
Mike says, "is one of despair." Mike knows 
how slim his own odds of finding a pro-
fessorial job are. The fact that he chose a 
rather unusual and multidisciplinary field 
rather limits his choices. And all of the 
jobs on his list, he knows, will have about 
two hundred applicants each. 

But Mike has seen it all before. First, 
a job list comes out in September. Then, 
many hopefuls apply. Next, the initial ap-
plicant pool is whittled down to a hand-
ful who undergo tense interviews in ho-
tel rooms. Ultimately, only three of those 
get invited for an on-campus interview. 
When the economic downturn hit last 
year, however, up to two-thirds of the jobs 
posted by universities suddenly disap-
peared. After what he termed "a cascade 
of cancellations," there were even fewer 
places to look, and Mike and many of his 
classmates were forced to stay in New Ha-
ven for another year to tty again. In this 
time, he's coming up with a second book 
project to contrast with his dissertation. 
And he's formulating a Plan B. He can't 
afford to stay here another year and endure 
this taXing process for a third rime. People 
have got to realize, he emphasizes, that be-
ing an academic isn't the only way to lead 
an intellectual life. 

STEVEN SMYTH, Alfred Cowles Profes-
sor of Political Science at Yale and Master 
of Branford CoUege, believes it is the f.ue 
of higher education to persist despite the 
ravages of the economy. *Universities, col-
leges," he says. "We manage to survive." A 
tenured faculty_ member, he has the free-
dom to work on the topics that fire his 
curiosity: a few years ago it was the 17th 
cenrwy Jewish philosopher Spinoza and 
then the 20th century political thinker 
Leo Strauss; now he writes and lectures on 
Lincoln. "It's a wonderful life," he said. 
"You get to do what you care about. Not 
many people can say that." 

In his course on political philosophy, 
he talks with great admiration for the birth 
of higher education, the era when Plato es-
tablished his Academy and when philoso-
phy was considered, among the Greeks, to 
be an expression of erotic desire. "Yale and 
places like this are distant ancestors of this 
idea of educational utopias ... We're Plato's 
children in that way." 

But the values of today's university sys-
tem are irrevocably changed. 
Discovery 
of the good life through studying life's es-
sential questions has faded out of view and 
been replaced by another goal: "marketable 
skills." To Professor Smith, the academic 
life cannot come out of a determination to 
lead a professor's career: it is the work of 
fate. "The subject chooses you," he says. 

BuT FOR EMILY CoiT, the subject that 
chose her was not enough to keep her 
within the world of academia. 
Unlike 
Professor Smith, she never tried going on 
the job market. Although she's still listed 
on the English Department's directory as 
a 6th year graduate student, she left Yale 
last May to complete her dissertation on 
her own and to teach at a private high 
school in Massachusetts. The transition 
hasn't been perfectly straightforward: this 
Victorianist, with an interest in authors 
like Edith Wharton and Henry James, 
said that high school teaching has forced 
her to review her "kind of lacking" gram-
matical knowledge. Students balk at being 
assigned a one-hundred page book to be 
read over the course of three weeks. Dead-
lines are no longer self-imposed but are 
very real, and she is as busy as she's ever 
been. 

"I wanted to have conversations about 
literature that were more accessible, more 
about human moral problems," she said of 
her decision to leave the-academy behind. 
Though her two dissertation advisors 
urged her to pursue a professorial career, 
Coit was drawn to aspects of the discipline 
she felt were undervalued at the university 
level. While she acknowledges that she had 
a wonderful time at Yale, and that "the 
space and money and time for intellectual 
play at universities is unique," she and the 
academic establishment had divergent pri-
orities. She wants to read books "because 
they are beautiful, for their political is-
sues, and human drama." Her high school 
students understand that. About the pas-
sion she brings to the classroom, she says, 
"There's a little bit of missionary zeal in 
me. 

ANoTHER SCHOLAR I talked to was, like 
Coit, once on the verge of breaking with 
academia. Today, his picture is featured on 
the front page of the glossy, vivid brochure 
advertising "Graduate Study at Yale." He 
is in his doctoral robe of scarlet and black 
velvet, wearing a cropped white beard and 
round glasses, grinning broadly under his 
tassled academic cap and holding a strange 
kind of university scepter topped with 
a globe of crystal. He is Jon Butler, the 
Dean of Yale's Graduate School, and after 
graduate study at the University of Min-
nesota and a stint at Calstate Bakerville, 
winding up with an offer at Yale was an in-
credible windfall. Having almost given up 
and tried another life, he is now a foremost 
scholar on the history religion in America 
who has published award-winning books 
and spoken as an expert on various TV 
and radio programs. 

Sitting comfortably in his s11 rrmmd-
ings-a wide, airy office near the entrance 
of the Hall of Graduate Studies-Butler 
isn't ready to call the current -downswing 
in academic jobs a "crisis." The fact that a 
drop in hiring has coincided with general 
economic decline is what makes it more 
of an alarming piece of news, he said. He 
has wimessed ups and downs in a01demic 
hiring since the late '60s. Having trouble 
finding a job, he says, is nothing new, and 
frankly, jobs aren't really the point. Butler 
makes clear that applicants are nearly al-
ways people who are there to study 
not 
to attain a professional degree. ''I'm in-
clined ·to think that most are academically 
and intellectually driven to do deep study," 
he says, and notes that only a minority of 
the students decide not to pursue an aca-
demic career after they have earned their 
Ph.D. After all, Ph .. D. candidates are self 
selecting, he says. "We don't pursue stu-
dents 
we don't go out and recruit." Not 
recruiting means that there will be stu-
dents like Emily Coit who at the end of six 
years will find their career goals diverging 
from those of many of her classmates. To 
Dean Butler, such cases are perfectly nor-
mal; the focus should be on pursuing an 
education and enjoying the moment. As 
we're standing and shaking hands at the · 
conclusion of our interview, Dean But-
ler smiles and offers some friendly advice 
to those who might engage in graduate 
study: don't worry about it. "Do what you 
want to do," he said cheerily. "Close your 
eyes, wake up in six years and take a look 
around at the job market." 

STEVEN PINCUS, the Director of Gradu-
ate Studies in the History Department, is 
equally unruffled about the futures of his 
students. Having received his Ph.D. nearly 
twenty years ago, he experiences a certain 
dista nee from the mood of panic on the 
ground. Yet he says that the reality of the 
situation is far better than the perception. 
Most of the jobs that were cancelled, he 
says, were at the bottom of the heap-
jobs that he believes Yale graduate stu-
dents would be overqualified foL And Yale 
graduate students are eminently qualified 
to be professors, especially today. "I have 
a strong sense that every single one (of my 
students) that's written a good dissertation 
has gotten a good job" he says. Being pre-
pared to get a good job, though, requires 
a lot more than it used to. Having had 
several academic articles published, Pincus 
says, is "pretty much de rigeur," and stu-
dents are expected to "perform as profes-
sionals." 

Increased professionalization, however, 
comes with a cost. Pincus becomes very 
thoughtful when he talks about the down-
side to the professionalization of scholar-
ship. While universities and their students 
benefit, scholarship itself may suffer. "We 
don't encourage high-risk dissertations," 
he told me. He says that if one of his stu-
dents came to him with· a very daring plan 
for research, he would be likely to dissuade 
him. "It's a much more professionalized 
existence," he says about today's academic 
life, and graduate students must write dis-
sertations that conform to detailed stan-
dards if they want a good chance of get-
ting a job. The improvements in graduate 
education have been immense and there is 
"an overwhelming difference" in the qual-
ity of teaching that graduate students re-
ceive today as compared with the teaching 
they received a generation ago. But in this 
generation, Pincus says with a real sense of 
regret, "opportunities for paradigm-shift-
ing dissertation are lost." It would take a_ 
true maverick, an academic rebel-genius, 
it seems, to write a dissertation that would 
shake up a field. 

PAUL SHIN JUST MAY BE that maverick, 
and happier for it. A fourth-year gradu-
ate student in the history of science and 
medicine, nothing about Shin's approach 
to graduate school has been typical. · M-
ter earning an '1 ndergraduate degree in 
economics, he enrolled in medical school, 
but soon became fascinated in medical 
humanities, reading about the history of 
science on the side. He decided to take 
a six year break 
from medical 
school to delve into the topics that go un-
addressed in the average M.D. program: 
spiritualism, uncertainty, the practice of 
mesmerism and animal magnetism in 
19th century American medicine, the 
vague boundaries between medical prac-
tice, magic, and religious belief. 

If his 
interests sound whimsical or unconven-
tional, Shin is used to defying expecta-
tion. Compared to other medical students 
who are eager to get a degree and begin 
residency, he seems at home with the idea 
of taking even more time to study. His 
interests extend far beyond his field. For 
Shin, graduate school has been a time to 
nurture a love of writing 
he coordinates 
a "writing history'' group and talks about 
the pleasures of writing and storytelling. 
Instead of writing something purely aca-
demic for his dissertation, he muses, he'd 
like to end up with a book that Penguin or 
Viking could publish. He talks in terms 
of plot and characters instead of thesis 
and conclusion, and he imagines his au-
dience including his fellow physicians or 
his friends pursuing "complimentary and 
alternative medicine," whose approach 
to their profession would be enriched by 
historical thinking. To Shin, who reads 
Thomas Kuhn's landmark history Structure 
of Scientific Revolutions along with his pa-
thology textbook, doctoring and the hu-
manities are inseparable. "Grad school," 
he says, "is this great time where you de-
velop an understanding of some aspect of 
human experience." 

THE LAST GRADUATE student I talked to 
tends bar where Plato's children go to get a 
drink. Erik Graham-Smith runs the Gry-
phon's at the Graduate and Professional 
Student Center at Yale. Last spring Gra-
ham-Smith earned his Master's of Divin-
ity, which he describes as a course of study 
in "very academic hardcore systematic the-
ology and ethics ... books with 14-syllable 
words." Unlike his classmates up at the 
Divinity School, Graham-Smith has had 
much closer contact with students in the 
Graduate School. At once an insider and 
an outsider 
his degree will allow him to 
someday become a Jesuit priest 
he shares 
many things in common with them. Sit-
ting on the chilly patio outside the warm, 
glowing lights of his bar, he talked, not 
without a little humor, about how the 
Masters in Divinity is "notoriously a de-
gree people get when they're figuring stuff 
out 
it's a spiritual degree." In that way 
it's not unlike what a graduate degree 
can be for many people. "As a recession 
avoider," he says, a divinity degree is much 
the same as a Ph.D., and he has a number 
of friends who are earning doctorates but 
who plan on pursuing careers outside of 
academic research. He's in his mid-twen-
ties, and pauses to tell me that his grandfa-
ther, at his age, was running a family farm. 
He had already been to war, married, and 
had children. Today, for those who attend 
graduate school, things can be much dif-
ferent. Extending one's education, paus-
ing for a degree that will not inevitably 
lead to a career doesn't necessarily have to 
be a waste of one's titne. Shin, the histo-
rian and future physician, says his last four 
years have been "about stillness, listening, 
finding what's really interesting... about 

Would the Greeks have disagreed? 

Rachel Caplan is a senior in Calhoun 
College. 



**Title: Can students stomach a new approach to public school food?**
**Author: Alice Walton**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
00 
. I 
WHEN I ENTERED THE CAFETERIA of the 
Wexler-Grant Community School, a New 
Haven K-8 school, at 10:15, it was crunch 
time. Five lunch ladies, dressed in match-
ing red-collared shirts and hairnets, were 
scooping canned apricot halves into small 
plastic containers and covering the pans 
of lettuce and chopped meats with foil. 
When the apricots ran out, they moved 
onto applesauce. One of the ladies stepped 
forward, an unofficial spokesperson for the 
group. "You need to do something about 
this," she said, motioning toward the food. 
"Why would you give kids this on a cold 
day? A chef salad and it's all cold!" ·
The first onslaught is at 10:30 a.m. The 
youngest kids at Wexler-Grant Commu-
nity School rush into ·the cafeteria. Large 
and open, with patterned linoleum on 
the floors and plastic tables with built-in 
stools, it looks just like any other cafeteria. 
Kids play musical chairs as they vie for the 
best seat. From doors on either side of the 
cafeteria, students file through the kitchen, 
November 2009 
By Alice Walton 
choosing from today's spoils: a chef salad 
of iceberg lettuce with sparing amounts 
of shredded carrots and purple cabbage, 
with chopped deli meats 
one lighter, 
one darker, both amorphous 
shredded 
cheese, and ranch dressing to add on top. 
At Wexler-Grant, salads don't fare well 
at lunchtime. Today,- many kids opt for 
the back-up option 
a cheese-and-un-
identified-meat sandwich. "My meat had 
black dots on it," one third grader reports 
to me, disgusted. ("That's the spice, stu-
pid!" his friend informs him.) Still more 
plates filled with dressed lettuce find their 
way quickly to the trash, as kids make do 
with canned fruit and precious cartons of 
chocolate milk. 

But salads are not the only foods that 
end up in the trash according to Louise 
Pierce, a self-proclaimed "Cafeteria Mom-
my," who has been working at Wexler-
Grant for two years. Wearing red pants 
and a matching turtleneck, Pierce patrols 
the cafeteria, selling out plastic silverware 
and fruit cups when the tide of students 
ebbs. When the kids enter with shouts of 
"Hi, Ms. Louise!" she monitors the meal, 
shushing the loudest voices and check-
ing in as they eat. If she knows anything, 
she knows what kids like 
and what they 
don't. "They waste more food than they 
eat. There was an eggplant parmesan sand-
wich that all went to waste. And an Asian 
chicken-broccoli stir-fry thing; it all went 
in the trash." 

The school lunch has been an Ameri-
can institution since 1946 when congress 
created the 
ational School Lunch Pro-
gram. Today, public and non-profit pri-
vate schools from pre-school through high 
school are eligible to receive federal reim-
bursement for the cost of the dining pro-
grams, and certain foodst11ffs are provided 
by the USDA. These reimbursements cov-
er the cost of students who qualify for a 
free lunch 
80% of students in 
ew Ha-
ven public schools 
but they do not add 
up to much. The USDA pays 
ew Haven 
$2.50 for every free meal they serve. The 
small sum is intended to cover the cost of 
overhead, personnel and ingredients for a 
healthy, filling lunch. 

"It's a whole giant mess the way the sys-
tem works," says ChefTimothy Cipriano, 
executive director of New Haven Food 
· Service Department. "$2.50 is supposed 
to cover the cost, which it doesn't." Since 
the inception of the National Lunch Pro-
gram, regulations have been periodically 
updated. Until now, this has meant inter-
mittent recommendations to cut fat con-
tent in meals or add vitamins. In October 
of 2009, the National Institute of Medi-
cine released its first new guidelines since 
1995, which featured limits on calorie and 
sodium content in the meals and require-
ments for more fruits and vegetables. The 
new recommendations have placed stress 
on the system. "We can't even afford what 
we serve now. If we were to implemen-r 
new recommendations, we'd be losing our 
shirts," Cipriano says. 

Bald and big-boned, Cipriano is on a 
mission when it comes to lunch. Some 
might say he has enough to focus on 
without new regulations that will increase 
his budget deficit. But he is a force to be 
reckoned with, even on the national -level. 
When we spoke, he had just returned from 
a trip to Washington, DC, where he was 
meeting with federal officials to convince 
the USDA to increase federal subsidies. 
Bur Cipriano is not your typical lunch
lady. Serving 12,000 meals per day is no 
meager task, but the chef took it on with 
gusto when he came to New Haven from 
Bloomfield, CT in July of 2008. "I never 
looked at it like it was a monumental task," 
he ·explains. "New Haven's school popula-
tion is ten times bigger than Bloomfield's, 
so I just multiplied it all by ten. I didn't 
want to psych myself out. I just never let 
it bother me." 

At Bloomfield, he was known for inno-
vative recipes and emphasis on local food. 
He brought Connecticut-grown produce 
into the high school cafeteria; the New 
York Times even profiled him for his work 
there. 

New Haven has been a different story. 
When he took over in 2008, Cipriano 
replaced Aramark, the massive food ser-
vices company that had managed New 
Haven's school food for years. Food ser-
vice companies like Aramark are the norm 
for school lunch throughout the country. 
"The vast majority of districts still rely on 
major food service companies," says Gor-
don Jenkins (YC '07) who now serves as 
the school lunch campaign manager at 
Slow Food USA, a non-profit food advo-
cacy group based in Brookyn. "But we're 
beginning to see a trend of districts head-
ing towards cooking from scratch." 

Cipriano is spearheading that transi-
tion in New Haven. "Everything was cor-
porate under Aramark, People were scared 
of upper management. I'm not going to 
be that bad guy." While it's true that the 
unions were sick of Aramark, he explains, 
the food itself was the main impetus for 
change. Now, instead of getting food de-
livered by a national chain, food services 
work out of a central kitchen where Cipri-
ano can control quality and order in bulk 
for better prices from regional sources. He 
offers more fruits and vegetables, salads, 
mashed potatoes (from real, roasted po-
tatoes 
not a box), working tirelessly to 
ensure that the ingredients are regional or 
local when possible. 

But Cipriano's vision is not always 
popular with the uniformed children who 
swarm the Wexler-Grant cafeteria in three 
shifts over the course of the morning. Kids 
wonder why they can't have chicken nug-
gets every day, while adults question the 
decisions behind the food. "We should 
have a hot lunch and mo~e variety, not just 
salad and bread in the winter," says "Caf-
eteria Mommy'' Pierce. "We have a state of 
the art kitchen in there and we only use it 
to reheat food? I'll go in there and cook." 

Beatrice has been working in the 
Wexler-Grant kitchen for 11 years. "They 
stopped people in the schools from cook-
ing. Now we're getting these meals 
some 
of them I can't even pronounce 
from a 
central kitchen. I mean, they say the food 
is good and healthy but I don't know," 
she says, shaking her head in dismay. "We 
stopped cooking and the kids throw it 
" 
away more. 

Cipriano claims the central kitchen al-
lows him to get the most bang for New 
Haven's buck; when it comes to procur-
ing high-quality local produce, ordering 
in bulk is the only answer. In 2008, New 
Haven purchased at least 12,000 apples, 
6,500 pounds of butternut squash and 
400 pounds of tomatoes. Meanwhile, the 
$2.50 benchmark looms over each deci-
sion. ''A central kitchen keeps the costs 
down, and I'm looking for any way to ex-
pend the government's dollar. It also gets 
the attention of regional suppliers," he ex-
plains. 

Since Aramark left, quality has im-
proved, 
believes 
"Cafeteria Mommy" 
Pierce, but she wonders whether that im-
provement is here to stay. "It started off 
better than Aramark, bur now to me, it 
seems to be going down." 

But are the school lunches in New Ha-
ven healthy? 
utrient content of school 
lunch food is closely regulated by the fed-
eral government. Schools have to meet cer-
tain criteria to receive any reimbursement 
for the lunch. But the rules state quotas for 
vitamins rather than fruits and vegetables, 
which can be filled by just about any forti-
fied food. This eases the budget issue for 
districts that are not focused on the nu-
tritional value of their lunches. "There are 
absolutely schools that make the budget 
work, but they serve tater tots, chicken 
nuggets and a lot of highly processed foods 
which is something we don't want to do," 
says Cipriano. 

Beatrice takes a look at the salad sit-
ting under the glass. "The board says it 
is healthy, but this is not good meat," she 
says, indicating the chopped, pink and 
white cubes that are spooned onto the mix 
of iceberg lettuce as the children grab their 
salads. 

"This is the healthiest thing I've seen 
them eat in a long time," says Elizabeth 
Bewley, a senior in Berkeley College who 
volunteers in a kindergarten classroom 
at Wexler-Grant. But are they eating it? 
"That's questionable," she laughs. 

After all, how many six year olds like 
salads? Adalia and Alandra, two kindergar-
teners, profess to like their lunch as they 
pick through their lettuce and meat. An-
other boy, taking a bite of his whole-:-wheat 
roll, expresses a common sentiment of the 
dining hall: "I only like this." While some 
kids clear their plates, most pick at one 
part of the salad or another. Some prefer 
the cheese, some the meat, others the let-
tuce. Either way, the trash cans are full of 
unfinished or untouched {ood by the end 
of each shift. 

As I move through the cafeteria, the 
pint-sized voices are dying to tell me that 
they love the pizza that appears on the 
menu once per week They don't seem to 
know it is made with whole grains, and if 
they do it doesn't bother them. There are 
also more elaborate dishes that are popular 
too. Barbeq ue chicken is a clear winner, 
with rave reviews from everyone from kids 
to teachers. 

What else would they like to see for 
lunch? 
"Fried Chicken!" 
"Chicken nuggets!" 
"D· 
. ,, 
trty nee. 
"Chinese food!" 
''At my cousin's school in Cheshire they 
even get jello!" 

Pleasing the palate while keeping the
food healthy is a tough balance in school 
lunches across the country. "You can't just 
offer healthy food and expect that's what 
the kids will want. It's all-about taste at the 
end of the day," says Slow Food's Jenkins. 

Taste can be a tricky thing, especially 
when cafeterias push kids out of their 
comfort zones. Walking past a chattering 
group of cafeteria. staff, I hear rumors of 
one school that accidentally got shrimp 
linguine for lunch one day ("I wish we had 
got shrimp linguine.") and concern about 
the quality of ingredients. "They always 
say there's vegetables in the pizza, but it's 
cooked to death!" says one employee who 
requests that her name not be used. "Ev-
eryone knows there's no nutritional value 
in that whatsoever." 

Health is hardly her biggest complaint, 
however. "There is no culture in the food. 
Look around, we're a largely minor-
ity school and we don't eat like that," she 
says, as she watches one of the lunch la-
dies scoop meat onto the salad. "They're 
not even thinking about the types of kids 
they're serving." Cipriano has expressed
interest in tailoring menus to reflect the 
rich ethnic communities of New Haven, 
but that will happen only in the years to 
come, he says. 

"The kids at Columbus love their salad 
bar. Last year at Martinez we were sam-
pling watermelon radishes and at Barnard 
they were handing me sungold tomatoes, 
excited to show me how delicious they 
were," he tells me. 

But Wexler-Grant has seen none of 
their innovations, and the discontent 
among the staff and students is palpable. 
Lunches at the school are prepared in a 
remote kitchen, have no face and no ad-
vocate. Cipriano wants to make cafeteria 
food in New Haven more personal, more 
interesting, and more genuinely healthy. 
But for true success, he'll have to figure 
out how to cook food that doesn't end up 
in the trash at schools like Wexler-Grant. 

Alice "Walton is a senior in Pierson College. 

**Architecture Speaks: The Enduring Legacy of James Gamble Rogers at Yale**
**Author: Corinna Lewis**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
When it comes to Yale's past, the writings are literally on the wall.

Architecture tells stories. Before books, the silent stonework of buildings conveyed elaborate narratives sans words. In churches and cathedrals, sculptures, carvings, and stained glass windows told religious parables to those who couldn't read or gain access to books. Who needs bound pages when you could have dappled light illuminating characters rendered in marble or limestone? Victor Hugo wrote that before the invention of the printing press, men who were born to be poets became architects. After Gutenberg made the mass production of the written word possible, men who were born to be poets could just be ... well, poets.

But James Gamble Rogers, the architect of Yale's Harkness Tower, Sterling Memorial Library, the Law School, and many other campus landmarks, was something else: a poet-architect. "Every door, every nook, every cranny tells its own story," says Yale School of Architecture Dean Robert A. M. Stern of the buildings. "Students have come to fiercely and passionately embrace his charms and storytelling and wit."

Harkness Tower, for example, boasts four grotesque birdlike figures that represent the misshapen, malleable freshmen who come to Yale to be formed into successful graduates. Above them are four statues representing professions that Yale students generally pursued: law, business, medicine, and the ministry. Some conventions, it seems, really are set in stone.

A hallway in Sterling Memorial Library leading to the Manuscripts and Archives room contains twelve carvings of students, one between each window, memorializing the lifestyle of high scholarship. One boy drowses over his books, while another drinks an overflowing mug of beer beneath a picture of a curvaceous woman. A student listens to a radio, books neglected, while another reads, in large type, "U. R. A. JOKE." The final stone student, however, sits on a globe, triumphantly clutching his diploma. He is the successful Yale graduate, on top of the world.

The mood of Roger's architecture may be lighthearted, but his work was ambitious and artistically serious. "The level of detail-the scholarship and invention and wit-that went into the design of those buildings ... was something that had never been seen at Yale's campus," said Stern. "It celebrates the entire history of the university. It's filled with tributes or references to where Yale was located, where its founders came from, who the great professors were and so on."

According to Judith Schiff, the chief research archivist for the Sterling Memorial Library, each stained glass window in the library corresponds to the purpose of its room. Even the faculty lunch room, now sparsely furnished with a fridge and a microwave, has beautiful stained glass windows with motifs of food from Mother Goose rhymes: Little Jack Horner, the "Queen of Hearts who made some tarts," and Jack Sprat "who could eat no fat." "It's not the beautiful place it once was. It's become more utilitarian," said Schiff of the lunchroom, whose windows no longer get the attention they deserve.

In a library room intended for natural sciences seminars, a fire-breathing dragon keeps company with birds, fish, reptiles, and serpents. In one meant for the study of mathematics, a glass James Watt tinkers with a tea kettle in one window, while Benjamin Franklin flies his kite in a lightning storm. Huckleberry Finn is up to no good in a stained glass medallion in a room for American literature, while Moby Dick swishes his tail in another.

The Law School, too, is rich in embellishment. Take, for example, the carving at the gothic entrance at 127 Wall Street, depicting a lawyer with the head of a parrot and his client with the body of a goat. In the panels found over the doors at this entrance, two scenes with darkly humorous implications confront the already offended law student: In the scene to the left, a stone courtroom is filled with clamoring lawyers doing their best to convince a sleeping judge of their cases. To the right, an earnest professor lectures to a classroom of snoozing students. All that's missing are cartoon Zs floating up to the ceiling.

Elsewhere, over an entrance to the Law School on High Street, a student slumbers, surrounded by books. Next to him are an owl, a friendly-looking mouse, and some cobwebs. The slacker, it appears, was an endless source of inspiration for Rogers.

On a stone cornice at the east end of the north wall of the Law School courtyard, and with seemingly with little explanation, is a stone figure of a snail. Wigs and Woolstacks, a 1934 pamphlet on the facility's architecture, helpfully explains that the gastropod "represents the speed with which the law works."


Snails and slackers aren't the only noteworthy figures immortalized in stone. Ask Dean Stern where to stop on an architectural tour of the Law School, and he'll send you to his own favorite detail: a portrait of its architect embedded in the building's stone wall. Perhaps Stern, who is designing Yale's two new colleges, has ambitions of his own portrait being incorporated into the university's architectural narrative. He wouldn't say straight out. It seems, however, visitors to colleges 13 and 14 should be on the lookout for a little stone Stern. "Consider the hint dropped," he said.





**A Family Affair at Harold's Formal Wear**
**Author: Kate Selker**
**Page number(s): 20-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Were the "About Us" page on the website of Harold's Formal Wear a wedding toast, the whole room would be tearing up.

MEET ANITA!!
Anita is "the face" of Harold's. If your mom or grandma bought their dress here at Harold's chances are Anita sold it to them.

ALICIA IS THE "LITTLE SISTER" of the family. . She's the girl next door. When you meet Alicia at Harold's you'll feel like you've been friends forever.

LISA CAME TO WORK at Harold's as a teenager and never left. "There are not many jobs in the world that let you be a part of the happiest day in someone's life. That's a pretty good perk!!"

ANNETTE JOINED HAROLD's with lots of experience dressing pretty girls ... She has three daughters, Dominique, Angela, and Marissa.

WHEN I FIRST MET Annette, she was testing out a mother-of-the-bride dress in front of the rest of the staff. It was a two-piece ensemble with a matching blazer, maroon, shiny, and bejeweled. Annette's not a fan of trying things on. "We all do it for Lisa," she says of her twin sister. "We're family."

Lisa is older than Annette by just a few minutes but shorter by quite a few inches. Though small, she is authoritative, with perky hair and a focused gaze. She wears heels, but trades catwalk delicacy for a determined, getting-somewhere clack that sounds with every step. As a young employee years ago, Lisa became quite close with Harold himself, and has gone on to run the shop after he passed.

The women cheer and Annette scowls. She shuffles back to the dressing room and rewrns wearing a silver taffeta ensemble. Annette stands in the silver dress as if it itches.

"You look good in anything, Annette," squeals Lee, another Harold's employee.

"You ass," Annette responds, smiles, and marches back to put on her jeans.

Lee remains beaming when her friend goes away. Though genetically unrelated to her co-workers, it's easy to see why the Harold's family adopted her. Her big lined eyes glow, and she has a voice that calls to mind secrets, counsel, and admiration all at once. Lee has well-styled blonde hair and wears clothes that Oprah would love: thick beaded necklaces, lots of muted tones and simple sweaters with flowing sleeves. Lee loves her job, and she's happy to tell you why.

"I think it's the relationship that you form with brides. You hope that they send you pictures; you become best friends. It makes you cry, there's such a deep connection. I get teary-eyed just saying it!" Her voice trembles.

The women laugh, moaning, "She's our crier!"

Lee is unashamed. "When I put a dress on a girl, I get the chills and teary eyes and if the mother cries, God forbid .... " There are nods all around.

ALLISON VALENTINE arrives at Harold's with her sister, Laura, and her mother, Susan. The three women wear matching Burberry jackets and dark, pressed jeans. They're instantly chatty with the staff. The traffic was bad. It took double the time they expected. And can you believe the rain? Annette receives them smilingly, and Lee asks them if they want to meet me, standing with a notebook in the corner.

Allison skips over to stand next to me. Her face is like a little girl's. Do I want to see her inspiration page? Not bothering to wait for an answer, she whips out a computer print-out hued in greens, yellows, and white, the color of Allison's treasured sunflowers. , The bridesmaids will wear emerald. But Allison will dress in white.

Pictures of Stewartesque table settings, unfrazzled wedding parties of sexy twentysomethings, and green high heels are arranged on the page like a yearbook collage.

As Allison leads her family towards the gowns, she points to a certain silk taffeta blend.

"But it's kind of prommish," Laura suggests. "So much Taffetyr''

"The fabric is kinda prommy," Allison concedes. The sisters leave the garment and move onto other, better dresses in different shades of white.


The dresses keep coming and coming off. The women have stamina, moving through dresses too big to wear, "too fun" or too expensive, even dresses deemed "perfect," yet discarded.

After some browsing, they're sent to the dressing room, where Annette has picked out some special gowns for Allison to try. The back room gowns are special; all priced at over eight-hundred dollars, they're accessible to patrons only at an employee's suggestion. After a brief interview with Allison about her "vision"

"I'll try anything," the bride-to-be admits

Annette has come back with a wide selection. The dressing room is so large it could fit three queen-sized beds inside. There's a pedestal, a wall-hugging couch, and a many-faced mirror that folds in and out. The lights can be switched to "evening" or "day." We keep it bright.

"She wants a nice shape," Susan declares upon seeing the selection. When I first met Allison's mother, she insisted she would play only supportive spectator to her daughters. Now, she explains to "her girls" (among whom I am now generously included) that the ideal dress would look like something Grace Kelly would wear -beautiful, elegant, classy.

Allison's face sprouts into a grin. With an honest "I'm not shy!" she slips off all her clothes and jumps into her first gown in front of the whole group. The dress has a deep back and a huge bottom. There's a rosebud pinned at the fabric stretched behind her hips. "You've got a flower on your butt!" Laura giggles, and Allison shimmies a little. "I've got enough junk in my trunk already," Allison says, rushing to unzip.

The next dress is ruched on the bottom in elegant "pick up" folds, the type of skirt Allison and Laura have taken to calling "the cupcake." It's bright white and regal.

"I feel holy in this dress," Allison remarks.

"Yea, that's too holy for you," Laura says. The dress is unzipped.

Allison puts on more dresses. Through it, Susan struggles to restrain herself.

"I don't love it," she says at one gown. "I want to love it."


It has been over an hour. The Valentines, luckily, have a year before the big day. They'll have a dress before the wedding. Allison's got an image in her head, and she'll find it. "When they find the right dress, their face lights up," Lee explains.

ANITA ANASTASIO is the shop's oldest employee, and has been working the wedding trade for forty years. Anita is a frail woman, short, wrinkle-faced and ruddy-cheeked. Her posture is bent just slightly, as if she is hoping to hug you, but a shade too timid to try. She spends conversation nodding and clasping her hands, resting her cheek in her palm, and sighing. Gazing back at memories of when she first came to Harold's, she speaks of the good old days. "It was different. It was quiet."

They used to have cookie tables after the wedding. They used to have special honeymoon outfits and the men wore fresh suits as they drove away. Everything was more ceremonial.

Despite these sepia memories, Anita is grounded in today's world. When she pauses to think back forty years, the shades of wistfulness she carries are outweighed by an accurate appraisal of "girls today." They've gained confidence. They simply know more about what they want -"the computer tells them so much" she explains. Internet or not, however, love remains blind, the heart stays fickle, and Anita assures me that "the basic bride stays the same. Her enthusiasm, her excitement, her fright is there no matter what." Anita insists that even modern-day professional women change when they become brides. Some are giddy and irrational. Others bask in the limelight. The wedding bug spares no woman.

When Anita began working at Harold's, the average girl got married when she was twenty-one years old. Today, women tie the knot, on average, when they're twenty-six. (Men, on average, are at least two years older than their wives.)

Anita knows that modern girls are different. She knows they've been shacked up with their fiancees since long before engagement. They're managing their money for themselves. They are gainfully employed. They're less likely to comply with their mother's vision of a perfect dress, or honor her by wearing the same one she wore.

"You can listen to the bride and take in what everyone else is saying to her, but she'll never feel beautiful in what I think and what her mother thinks is beautiful," she explains. To help a girl find a dress, you've got to let your feminine intuition take over as your inner fashion judge, because it's her day.

Anita and her partners speak so warmly of these moments, and so warmly to me, that I half expect them to invite me over for dinner. Instead, they invite me to the Bridal Extravaganza, where they're having the fashion show. It's at the Woodwinds, a social events space in Branford, and Annette will be modeling. I couldn't miss it.


THE WOODWINDS STANDS bricked and pillared, like a country club or a spa. It sits wreathed in a parking lot, dotted with three photogenic gazebos and embellished with red oaks.

I gain entrance with a postcard Lee had given me the week before: "TWO FREE ADMISSIONS: A TWENTY DOLLAR VALUE!" The paper is soft and ragged; I'd been clutching it nervously the whole taxi ride over.

Inside, I am greeted by a giant, estrogen pumped pageant. It is as though I've stepped into the mind of a woman who listened to soft rock and browsed bridal catalogs all day while eating cheese. A wedding singer and a little band had set up by the door, where they treated the crowds to "I'm Walking on Sunshine!" and other cheery hits. There are tables with cheddar and gouda cubes piled high next to cut vegetables. There are women everywhere. Some wear a tell-tale "BRIDE" sticker; to let the vendors know who among them would be the most lucrative to befriend.

One vendor, carrying an armful of roses, eagerly asks me if I am a bride-to-be. I show her my ticket, but inform her that no, I am not the bride. I get no rose. I walk past the flower-seller, make my way past the cheese sculptures and fruit bowls. My stomach is queasy.

A gaggle of bridesmaids linger by my side.


**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Kate Seizer**
**Page number(s): 22**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Everyone probably thinks I am single. 
They probably think I don't have friends. 
They probably think I am lonely. In truth, 
• 
I am. I need a hug. 
It is as though I've stepped into 
the mind o a woman who lis-
tened to so rock and browsed 
bridal catalogs all day while 
eating cheese. 
. 
I get a kiss. There was Lee, standing 
proudly on my right, glowing warmth at 
the Harold's Bridal Booth. "Hi," I mur-
mured, catching her eye. "KATE!" she 
calls, pulling me towards her and kissing 
my cheek, ushering me behind the table to 
stand with her. Annete shuffies over, sur-
rounded by her daughters and sporting the 
maroon mother-of-the-bdde dress she had 
scorned a few weeks ago at the shop. She's 
excited to see me, and introduces me to 
her daughters. 
"We've got to show her to Lisa!" she 
says, rushing ·me out of the Expo Room 
towards the dressing rooms out front, 
where three "brides" sit waiting on a plush 
bench. 

One is full figured and blonde, with 
heavy mascara that makes her eye5, in the 
language of makeup, "pop." Her ample 
breasts, tucked tightly in the corset of her 
gown, follow suit. Her two companions are 
taller and more simply arrayed, their faces 
less painted, their hair not quite so stiff 
with spray. One is a redhead and maybe 
thirty-five, and the other is younger, with 
light brown locks. The three sit cramped 
and poofing on a plush little bench meant 
for two. 
Pa5sing the three, Anette, her daughters 
and I walk to the closet where the brides 
had been dressed, where Lisa herself is cur-
rently dressing up two school-aged girlets 
in puffy white. 
· 
"Look!" Annette announces, pointing 
to me. Lisa's excited to say hello, and the 
little girls stare. 

Back in the expo room, the D J start-
ed up "I Will Always Love You" and the 
Emcee announced that it was time for the 
show to begin. The ladies of Harold's were 
lined up, and in three sets of dress chang-
es, they made their way down the catwalk. 
At first, they seemed nervous. Annette's 
youngest daughters, sitting crosslegged by 
the front of the stage, gave her giggling 
grins, and her older ones stood brave in 
their bridesmaids gowns, doing a little 
22 
hand-on-hip twirl at the end. 

A shorter girl, no more than four years 
old, approaches the catwalk in a little white 
strappy frock, and immediately bursts into 
tears. She ruris away to hugging arms, and 
the. show goes on. The other small girl, a 
little bit older, makes it all the way to the 
catwalk and starts to strut. The crowds eat 
it up. She shuffies shyly in her Mary Janes, 
and her hair hangs down straight. Annette 
does a second round in the mother-of-
the-bride dress, and the trio of fake brides 
display their gowns to the flash of cameras 
and the approving critique of the women 
below. The fashion show is a success. 

TWO WEEKS LATER, I'm standing with 
Lee in a $1,700 Paloma Blanca wedding 
dress. The Harold's staff has wanted to see 
me in their gowns from the beginning and, 
despite apprehensions,_ I finally say okay. 
Lee had informed me that we'd start 
with dresses I like, and then move on to 
dresses she thought I'd find a little more 
daring. She had pegged me as a low-key 
gown girl, and the first two on the rack 
were ivory silk a-lines, mild on the scale of 
froo£ .(An a-line dress consists of a fitted 
top that hugs a girl at the bellybutton and 
.hourglasses outward at the bust, as well as 
a bottom that poofs to the base of a cone,_ 
like the lower rungs of the letter "a," from 
the waist down.) Before I put on either, I 
have to step into a set of constrictive little 
lace and wire delights, created to sculpt 
my waist to hip ratio into something wor-
thy of a fertility sculpture. Properly con-
fined, I put on the Palmona Blanca Silk 
dress. Lee tells me to step on a pedestal so 
the dress can hang at its full length. The 
dress puddles out glamorously at my feet. 
The top of my very first a-line is covered 
in floral lace and embellished with small 
pearly beads. An ivory ribbon rests right 
above the hip. Lee catches me grinning. I 
catch myself grinning. Lee insists she snap 
a photo, and I pose. 

Next, I try on the San Patrick a-line, 
which also has me smiling. It's got a side-
ruched top, and it's off-white with a set of 
tiny buttons that cover up the zipper. The 
buttons are so tiny, Lee informs me, that 
they use crochet hooks to clasp them on 
the Big Day. 

The third dress isn't quite the charm. 
The thick halter top cuts me off at the 
shoulder, and the dress clings to my waist, 
hips, and upper thighs, pulling in tight at 
my knees so they're forced to touch, before 
trumpeting out for the calves. It reminds 
me of a "Chinese Finger trap," the little 
tube toys that-suck tighter and tighter the 
more you try to escape. Curve after copi-
ous curve, the gown is fit for an octopus 
queen, but not for me. 

My final dress is fit for a Victorian prin-
cess, and I don't mind one bit. Before I can 
put on the dress, I've got to change slips; 
I transfer into a set of hoops that pop out 
wide enough to hide at least one Great 
Dane, and Lee buttons me up in the dress. 
It's a gentle, coral pink-white, decked 
in rivulets of silver jewels, and blossom-
ing out from the thin strapped top into a 
willow tree's graceful dome. Lee tops me 
with a tiara and plays with my hair until 
the little crown stands up on its own. I'd 
never wear it in real life, but the women of 
Harold's don't care. They just want me to 
feel beautiful. 

HAROLD's MAY BE made for marriage, 
but this store is a sorority. It's about wom-
en and daughters and granddaughters 
and the closest of frie'nds. Saturday is the 
busiest day at Harold's, but by 4:30 one 
weekend in October, half an hour before 
closing, the shop has quieted down, and 
just the employees and I remain. Meghan, 
Annette and Lisa's niece, is here at Harold's 
for the first time since I've started observ-
ing the shop. It's her 18th birthday. "Hey 
Lee!" Lisa calls down towards the storage 
section of the shop. "Call the girls!" Wait-
ing for the seamstresses, Annette, Lee, 
and Lisa cluster by the counter, surround-
ing Meghan. Lee munches on a block of 
cheese. Somebody brings out cake in a 
Stop & Shop plastic container. 

"I stayed up all night to make this!" An-
nette jokes. 

The women work together to top it with 
a white and green candle shaped like the 
number" 18." It has two wicks and they set 
the flame with a little white lighter. They 
wait, and soon Lisa and Connie, the two 
squat seamstresses, forty-year-vets of the 
store, waddle in. With the gang all there, 
it's finally time to blow out the candles. 

In utter un-melodic sweetness, the 
women begin to sing. The birthday song is 
stripped of all delicate harmony, and each 
member of the Harold's family is singing 
her own personal rendition just slightly 
out of sync with her neighbors. They fin-
ish, though, one by one, and Meghan, 
amongst them, stands while they clap. She 
blows out the candles and gets them all. 
Kate Se ~er is a junior in Davenport College. 
She is a Managing Editor ofTNJ. 
THE NEW JOURNAL 


**Title: Can a new generation of Yale-trained teachers turn New Haven's schools around?**
**Author: Sarah Mich**
**Page number(s): 23, 24**

• 1n 
Can a new generation of Yale-trained teachers turn New Haven's schools around. 
REDELL ARMsTRONG (GRD '10) wants 
to talk on a Saturday· morning, so we 
schedule an earlybird meeting: 9:30 a.m. 
Any other day of the week, Armstrong 
would have been awake for three hours 
already. Today, he comes a few minutes 
late 
on Saturdays, he doesn't have to an-
swer to thirty impatient middle-schoolers. 
Armstrong arrived in New Haven this 
summer after five years spent teaching so-
cial studies in Harlem at a school where 
chalk and paper were in short supply. 
He has a jolly demeanor, even as he talks 
about the grievous social and racial inequi-
ties that drew him to teaching in the first 
place. And since beginning the Yale Mas-
ter's Program in Education Studies earlier 
this year, he has become part of a grow-
ing cadre of Yale students eager to foster 
learning and strengthen the partnership 
between the University and New Haven's 
public schools. 

Many st 
who go to 
school just two blocks away 
from Yale see the University 
as aloof or altogether inacces-
sible. 

November 2009 
By Sarah Mich 

But despite the verve and camaraderie 
of a Yale-based band of educators, New 
Haven public schools retain their share of 
persisting problems. Retention rates are 
low, and racial inequities still exist. Many 
students who go to school just two blocks 
away from Yale see the University as aloof 
or altogether inaccessible. New Haven 
public schools are home to over 20,000 
students, over a quarter of whom live below 
the poverty threshold, and many of whom 
never complete high school. Since starting 
to student teach in September, Armstrong 
has found that many--of the difficulties he 
encountered in Harlem plague New Ha-
ven as well. "The city is still working out 
how to retain students, and we have far to 
go in learning to effectively teach youths 
of color. Smaller issues, like the traditional 
parent-teacher conferences, are problem-
atic, too; many parents are working two 
or three jobs and can't make it over to the 
school. We need to come up with solutions 
within that culture, not outside of it." 

]ACK Gn.I.ETI'E, the director of Yale's 
Teacher's Program, has a waiting room 
for his office at 3 5 Broadway Street. It's a 
luxurious fixture, even at Yale. The couch 
outside is just within reach of a coffee table 
topped with colorful educational books. It 
looks and feels like a non-menacing doc-
tor's office, and appropriately so. Gillette, 
after all, is the doctor of public education 
at Yale, and involvement in the New Ha-
ven public schools is still in clinical trials. 

Though today Yale boasts a new Mas-
ter's program in education, a revamped 
undergraduate teacher preparation course, 
and an expanded office of New Haven and 
State Affairs, the university's engagement 
with its surrounding public school system 
is in its infancy. The programs that have 
come to define the university's partnership 
with New Haven public education 
the 
Public School Internship program, Com-
munity Health Educators, and other 
Dwight Hall student outreach 
are all less than two decades old. When 
Gillette arrived in New Haven thirty years 
ago for his first teaching job at Hillhouse 
High School, Yale's relationship with the 
New Haven education system was mini-
mal at best. "You wouldn't have thought 
Yale was in the same town," Gillette said. 
"I never saw a Yale student in my ten years 
at Hillhouse 
volunteering or otherwise." 

ine years ago, Gillette decided to rewrn 
to Yale and change things from within as 
Yale's D~ector ofTeacher Preparation and 
Education Studies. 

CLAUDIA MERSON, the Director of 
Public School Partnerships for Yale, works 
on similar issues from her office at New 
Haven and State Affairs. "It takes a village 
to raise a child, but in urban America it 
takes a traffic cop to manage the villagers. 
That's my job 
to take these great gifts 
and the passion of Yale students and steer 
them to public schools so that they can do 
the most good." 

Since President Levin took office, she 
says, the boundaries between Yale and 
New Haven have become noticeably blur-
rier. Thousands of New Haven students 
, visit Yale each year: · the athletic teams -
hold camps for over 350 kids every sum-
mer, and the Peabody Museum and the 
Yale University Art Gallery offer frequent 
events for class visits. 

ccThe schools don't look that 
hard, " Gillette said. ccThey're 
beauti 1 buildings, and the 
tone: is . not a bad tone. It 
doesn't eel edgy. New teachers 
can get lulled into thinking, 
it can't be that hard. 'It is. " · 

For Gillette ·and his teacher training 
methods, this growing collaboration has 
required Yale's education programs to 
adopt a carefully tailored approach to the 
particular culture of the New Haven pub-
lic school system. He wants to ensure that 
Yale students were ready to face both the 
difficulties and the excitement of teaching 
in an urban environment. 

"You could probably go out tomor-
row and teach at Hopkins," he told me. 
"The students there probably learn in very 
sitnilar ways that you do. You're smart and 
you could figure it out. But," Gillette said, 
leaning forward as if telling me a secret, 
"if you go to Career High School, you 
have a moral and ethical responsibility to 
generate learning for all kind of folk who 
might be entirely different in their learn-
ing approaches and have entirely different 
histories of education 
and that is a sur-
prisingly difficult thing to do." 

As his students entered classrooms of 
their own and encountered these difficul-
ties, Gillette wanted to be able to continue 
24 
working with them, pinpointing problems 
and making sure that the training pro-
gram was effective. Yet the undergraduate 
students he worked with in the Teacher 
Preparation Program· rarely taught in New 
Haven after Commencement. A Master's 
Program, he reasoned, would put more 
talent into the New Haven public schools 
and provide feedback about the quality of 
instruction in the Yale education program 
itsel£ 

In 2005, Gillette went to Yale's admin-
istration with a plan for a new two-year 
Master's program in Education Studies. 
President Levin backed the proposal and 
sixty members of the graduate faculty ap-
proved it with a standing ovation. 

The program admitted its first class 
that year, a group of five candidates who 
would be trained in_ both theory and expe-
riential learning, all within the context of 
urban education. "We wanted to structure 
a program where each of those elements 
complimented the other," Gillette said. 
Every week, he and his colleagues observe 
each candidate in the classroom during 
the ·required student teaching component 
of the program. "We videotape, we audio-
tape, and we reflect. The analytic theories 
are there to help us try to unpack what we 
" 
see. 

. According to Gillette, problems in the 
.classroom arise in any number of ways, 
and each candidate in the program needs 
to learn to decipher their causes and po-
tential solutions. "A student was reflecting 
on a situation today and told me: 'You say 
it could be racial dynamic, you say it could 
be instructional dynamic, you say it could 
be because they're teenagers 
which is it?' 
I say, 'That's your job to figure out."' 

A lot of them think, 1f I could 
just obtain a job at Yale Uni-
versity, then I'd be set just like 
my parents, or like my· uncle 
or like my aunt. "' 

Armstrong, as a student, has enjoyed 
the challenge of this approach, particularly 
in contrast with the direct teaching style 
that defined his years in Harlem. "There, I 
was considered the source of information. 
My students were vessels I filled with that 
information. But in the Master's Program, 
there is constant engagement. The philos-
ophy is that we all 
the students, teach-
ers, and our Yale professors 
are working 
together to arrive at the answer." 

BuT LEARNING HOW to implement them 
are two different things, and the pleas-
ant appearance of New Haven Schools 
can make this implementation seem de-
ceptively easy. To first-year New Haven 
teachers accustomed, as Yale students, to · 
seeing the shiny exterior and frosted glass 
windows of places like Cooperative Arts 
and Humanities High, the existence of 
real urban problems can sometimes come 
as a shock. 

"The schools don't look that hard," Gil-
lette said. "They're beautiful buildings, and 
the tone is not a bad tone. It doesn't feel 
_edgy. If you go to PS 302 in the Bronx, 
there's a kind of alignment based on the 
look and the feel. .~ You're prepared for a 
.certain set of difficulties. In New Haven, 
though, you have a differen-t set of expecta-
tions and new teachers can get lulled into 
thinking, 'It can't be that hard.' It is." 

DESPITE ARMsTRONG's appreciation for 
the Graduate Program, the hallowed halls 
ofYale where takes his theory-based classes 
every week feel very distant from the stu-
dents he teaches. "Sure, they aspire to leap 
out of their community and be associated 
with the University in one way or another, 
but they can't picture themselves as stu-
dents. A lot of them think, 'If I could just 
obtain a job at Yale University, then I'd be 
set just like my parents, or like my uncle or 
like my aunt."' The contrast is significant, 
he said, between the way his students per-
ceive themselves and the image they have 
of Yale students. "I don't think they see 
that people of color do attend Yale, or. at 
least not in large numbers. They see that 
the majority are white and they start look-
ing in other places." 

FoR YALE STUDENTS, too, working in 
the New Haven public schools means en-
tering a world that is at once familiar and 
surpnsmg. 

Minh Tran, who graduated from Yale 
last spring, spent two summers reaching in 
New Haven schools before he began work-
ing full-time at Elm City College Prep ear-
lier this year. Even during those summers, 
he said, his relationship with New Haven 
was always from the perspective of a Yale




**Title: The Game Theory of Love**
**Author: Laura Zax**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
PERSONAL ESSAY
The Game Theory of Love
Modern love? It's all about economics.

BOYS ARE LIKE DEODORANT.
This unlikely equation carne to me
while I stood, as bumblingly confused as
a pre-teen at a middle school dance, amid
cosmetics and candy at the local drugstore.
I was struggling to choose a new anti-per-
spirant. The one I applied daily had ceased
to make my underarms feel powder-fresh,
and the rows and rows of deodorizing
product that cluttered the shelves of aisle
nine offered the elusive promise of product
perfection.

Deodorants come in as many permu-
tations of fragrance, substance, and brand
as boys come in shapes, sizes, and summer
break plans. I faced the burdensome boon
of overwhelming variety. Did I want pow-
der or gel? Stick or roll on? Did I want a
brown-haired boy or a blonde? A baseball
player or a bookish intellecrual? Maybe
I didn't even want a guy at all. Penelope
Cruz is pretty smoking ...

Please don't hold such indecision
against me. I'm the child of an educator,
a lawyer, and the global rise of mass con-
sumer culture. I am, to some extent, the
product of produces. Like so many other
American rwenty-somethings, my daily
life has been characterized by a staggering
amount of choice and the corresponding
promise of the perfect one. Gone are the
days of, "If the shoe fits, wear it." The
shoe also needs to go with the new pants
you just bought. The shoe needs to make
your cankles look less cankle-y. It needs
to be cheap but not too cheap, stylish but
not too stylish. In other words, the shoe
needs to fit perfectly in order to be worth
wearing. American consumer culture has
guaranteed us perfectly personalized prod-
ucts, and we expect no less of our romantic
partners.

Deodorants come in as many
permutations of fragrance>
substance> and brand as boys
come in shapes> sizes, and
summer break plans.

If dating in the 21st century is like
shopping, Facebook is Amazon.com-
a one-stop online shop for all romantic
needs.

View Facebook photos ro see if a
crush is aesthetically appealing. Check a
crush's relationship status to see if he or she
is in stock. Place an order with a message
or a wall post. Track your order's progress
on his or her mini-feed.

I'm among the last candidates for
someone who'd come to consider love a
consumer transaction. A hippie born too
late, I had a peace sign on my retainer,
doodled daisy chains in the margins of my
homework, and really, truly believed that
all you need is love.

But something happened.

I never asked to consider love a com-
modity, but it's hard not ro. Everything
is marketable in the 21st century. These
days, businessmen sell propetty rights to
stars so distant they've likely already super-
novaed, and crazy eBay sellers auction off
ghosts-that's right, ghosts, which, even if
they do exist, are impossible to ship. Love
is among the less outrageous commodities
on the ~ket. When even the country's
political leaders (frequently, constantly)
pay for romance, the notion that people
approach love in the same way that a shop-


--- Page 27 ---

per approaches the deodorant aisle is to be
' expected.

American consumer culture
has guaranteed us per ectly
personalized products, and we
•
expect no less o our romantic

The economy, it seems, is the bottom
line. So, it's no surprise that the vocabu-
lary of economics has crept into the lan-
guage of love, that economic theories can
explain today's romantics. We speak of
"emotional investments" and of singles be-
ing "on the market." Econ 101 's law of di-
minishing returns explains that the divorce
rate and hookup culture is an example of
portfolio diversification. Even the Beatles'
final proclamation of love
Paul's assur-
ance that, "In the end the love you take
is equal to the love you make"--can be
charted with a simple supply and demand
curve.

The problem is, the capitalist economy
as Adam Smith envisioned it is character-
ized by qualities that should be antithetical
to romance. Please follow along in your
textbooks:

I. THE IDEAL MARKET IS IMPERSONAL.
True for the market economy, but not
so much for the make-out economy. Still,
random hook-up culture permeates col-
lege campuses, where the exchange of such
basic biographical information as a first
name does not necessarily have to precede
Frenching.

2. THE IDEAL MARKET ECONOMY IS EF-
FICIENT.
That's okay if you're interested in sales,
not sex.

But sex aside, efficiency as an
overriding principle for romance is coun-
terintuitive. A quickie's quick, after all, but
the satisfaction's transient. Passion should
be love's modus operandi. And taking the
scenic route, spending time rather than
saving it, or any number of other ineffi-
ciencies characterize passion.

3· THE IDEAL
ECONOMY IS
TRANSPARENT.
Public dealing is absolutely fundamen-
tal to a functional financial economy. Pri-
November 2009
vacy, on the other hand, ought to dictate
interpersonal exchanges. Still, an acquain-
tance of mine recently got a divorce, and
her Facebook friends discovered the news
when their mini-feeds alerted them that
she was "no longer listed as in a relation-
ship." A broken-heart icon appeared next
to the announcement.

EcoNOMIC PERFECTION is for stocks
and bonds, not studs and broads, studs
and studs, or broads and broads. The per-
fect financial market is an imperfect ro-
mantic market. In fact, the whole notion
of perfection
of what classical econo-
mists call a theoretical ideal and modern
.
lovers call a romantic fantasy
is precisely
what inhibits so many of us from deriving
satisfaction from relationships.

7he more important similar-
ity is that modern lovers, like
their parents and grandpar-
ents and great-grandparents,
are questing after a quixotic
ideal elusive as the perfectly
rational cunsumer.

So, modern love isn't that different
from the love of yore and the love of lore
after all. No, not because girls still go for
professors and boys still go for freshman-
though that pattern is likely to be peren-
nial.

The more important similarity is
that modern lovers, like their parents and
grandparents and great-grandparents, are
questing after a quixotic ideal, elusive as
the perfectly rational c:unsumer. The gen-
eration that first sat in theaters to watch
Disney's Cinderella surely felt the burden
of finding Prince Charming. The perfec-
tion of a fairy-tale ending has always been
true love's promise.

But perfection has
also always been
and always will be-
unachievable at any price.

The hope of "happily ever after" is
as tempting and as unattainable as the
thought of discovering the p~erless anti-
perspirant. What we have yet to appreci-
ate is that it's also undesirable. My par-
ents, who will soon be celebrating their
29th anniversary, know more about love
than even the most Petrarchan twenty-
something.

ot every minute of their
marriage has been happy. Still, when I'm
at home for the ever-rarer family dinner,
and my dad asks me with a dimpled smile,
"Doesn't Mom look beautiful tonight?" I
understand. More than I ever could when
faced with the limitless choices Rite Aid
'
presents me, I understand the value of im-
perfection. This sort of value can't be mea-
sured in GDP or GNP or in any other P,
for that matter. Its worth is too nuanced
for even the most thorough economist to
model, for even the most conscious con-
sumer to appraise.

It's also not something a twenty-one-
year old can swallow. Until I learn the les-
son for myself, I, like the generation that
I help form and that helps form me, will
continue to shop around in the hope of
finding that perfect someone. But, just be-
tween you and me: I don't buy it.

TN
Laura Zax is a smior in SiUiman Co/kg~.
She is th~ Snzior Editor o




**Title: Yale's Uncertain Future: New Colleges on Hold**
**Author: Max Ehrenfreund**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
·ect to 
Yale says construction of 
the new colleges is on hold. 
So why can't they give a 
straight answer? 
By Max Ehrenfreund 
THE FUTURE OF YALE CoLLEGE is spelled 
out in capital letters on a chart hanging on 
the plywood wall of Turner Construction 
Company's field office. Above it is a color-
ful schematic of the Prospect-Sachem-Ca-
nal Street triangle where Turner will build 
Yale's two new residential colleges after 
razing all the buildings currently on the 
site. In this office, information about Yale 
is presented without the prim typographic 
elegance characteristic of University docu-
ments, but no clarity is lost. "PHASE II 
ABATEMENT AND DEMOLITION" 
is scheduled for completion in 20 12. In 
November of that year, construction of the 
new colleges will begin. And, at the bot-
tom of the chart, in red letters, the date 
July 2015 is listed beside "CONSTRUC-
TION OF NEW COLLEGES COM-
PLETE." 
But since Yale's endowment fell sharply 
in the fall of last year, the administration 
has been forced to postpone the project 
indefinitely, and University officials have 
insisted that there is no way to predict 
when Yale will be in a financial position 
to begin construction. No one connected 
to the project is willing to guarantee that 
the chart in Turner Construction's porta-
ble predicts anything with certainty. The 
project manager there, who said he was 
not allowed to speak with reporters, de-
scribed the timeline as a best-case scenario. 
The Office of Public Affairs would not 
confirm even the Turner project manager's 
guarded assessment. A one-sentence email 
from Yale spokesperson Gila Reinstein 
explained, "There is no specific targeted 
completion date for the new residential 
colleges at this point." 

That may be the school's official po-
sition, but on August 29, the Yale Daily 
News reported that President Richard 
Levin mentioned 2015 or 2016 as prob-
able dates for the opening of the new col-
leges. Perhaps he and his advisors have a 
better idea of the timeline than they're let-
ting on. Despite the apparent uncertainty 
surrounding Yale's fiscal position, alumni 
contributions have allowed Yale to begin 
the initial stages of the project. Gift money 
was used to complete the planning and de-
sign of the colleges and is now paying for 
the process of demolishing the buildings 
currently standing on the site. 

No one connected to the proj-
ect is willing to guarantee that 
the chart in Turner Construc-
tions portable predicts any-
thing with certainty. 

Asked why Yale had decided to begin 
demolition right away even though con-
struction might not begin for some time, 
Deputy Provost J. Lloyd Suttle wrote in 
an email, "We want to make sure that we 
are ready to begin construction as soon as 
gifts to cover the cost of construction are 
received. 
Keep in mind that before we 
can begin construction, we will not only 
have to remove the existing buildings, but 
we will also have to expand and relocate a 
number of underground utilities, particu-
larly steam and chilled water pipes." 

Not all were convinced by this explana-
tion. When the Yale Daily News reported 
that demolition had begun, one online 
reader commented, "I don't understand. 
Building for those egregious new col-
leges won't even begin for several y~ars. It 
shouldn't take that long to do the utilities 
work, as they claim. Why is Yale rushing 
ahead to demolish the whole area so quick-
ly? Are they worried that public opinion 
will finally get traction and circumvent 
their plans to take over the whole city?" 
THE NEW JOURNAL 


PRovosT SuTTLE's explanation also 
does not agree with numbers from the Of-
fice ofDevelopment. Although design and 
demolition at the site have been funded by 
alumni contributions, the Office of Devel-
opment's $500 million fundraising goal 
will also go towards the increased expenses 
from faculty hiring and expansion of other 
programs made necessary by a larger stu-
dent body. Fundraising, says Vice Presi-
dent of Development Inge Reichenbach, 
will ultimately need to be supplemented 
by endowment returns and probably by 
cash from selling bonds. 

Since fundraising for the construction 
won't materialize right away, it makes sense 
that Yale claims to be uncertain when con-
struction will move forward. After all, the 
timing of the University's decision to build 
will have to depend on the state of the 
global economy, the success of fundrais-
ing and how quickly Yale can recruit ad-
ditional faculty. Finally, Woodbridge Hall 
will have to make a strategic assessment of 
just how important the new colleges are in 
the long term and determine what, if any-
thing, the University should give up in or-
der to see them come to fruition. "I don't 
think anyone has a crystal ball to give you 
the specifics," said Tom Conroy, Deputy 
Director of the Office of Public Affairs. 

For some, the possibility that the 
school began demolishing buildings with-
out a clear plan for funding the project is 
even more alarming. Joel Muraoka (YC 
'81), for one, was "furious they didn't set 
the money aside in bonds or something 
before the demolition was undertaken." 
He added that he did not intend to make a 
donation to support the new colleges, be-
cause "the way the funding was handled 
was negligent and now other people are 
being asked to pay for the mistake. Sounds 
like the bank bailouts." 

BUT VICE PRESIDE T 
REICHENBACH 
says that, in general, alumni have respond-
ed generously in support of expansion. 
November 2009 
Since June 2008, when the Yale Corpo-
ration formally approved the expansion 
of Yale College, alumni have contributed 
$168 million. Those contributions come 
during a difficult period for fundraising 
following the economic crisis in the fall of 
2008. "You couldn't even get an appoint-
ment in those days to discuss a donation 
with an alumnus," says Reichenbach. Only 
recently have donors become more willing 
to open their wallets. 

In her ninth-floor office across the 
Green from Phelps Gate, Reichenbach 
gestures out the window toward the build-
ings on top of Science Hill. "I feel like I 
can see the whole campus from here," she 
says. Once construction is finished, she 
will probably be able to see the brick tow-
ers of the new colleges rising behind the 
greenish dome of the Rotunda as well. It 
is a clear October day, arid New Haven 
is lit up with sunlight and autumn color. 
From here, it's hard not to have quixotic 
thoughts about Yale's future. 

When you can take in all of 
Yale in one glance like this, it's 
hard not to be filled with ro-
mantic feelings at the thought 
of Yale's future. 

Reichenbach is cenainly optimistic. 
Alumni, she says, are excited about the 
new residential colleges for many of the 
same reasons current students love the ex-
isting twelve. "It's not just housing," she 
explains, choosing her words thoughtful-
ly. "It's the intensity of relationships and 
friendships, the education that takes place 
when people are thrown together and start 
talking. It opens up minds and views." 

Yale's online giving catalogue gives 
some idea of how that fundraising goal 
will be reached. Although the new colleges 
themselves will not be named for donors, 
prices have been set for most of the smaller 
spaces within the college. A dining hall is 
five million dollars; a library is two. Each 
college will have its own TV Lounge, at a 
quarter of a million apiece. A Servery will 
cost you the same. 

BUT AS EXORBITANT as the online cata-
logue of rooms may seem, the Develop-
ment Office's methods have proven effec-
tive. On the site map in their field office, 
several buildings are marked with bold 
black X's. A solid red square in the nose of 
the triangular site represents 86 Prospect 
Street, a medium-sized house sitting at the 
intersection ofTrumbull and Prospect. 
Or . at least it was until October 28. 
That morning at 86 Prospect, a large back-
hoe sat on its treads amid a heap oflumber 
in a deep pit, loading d~bris into an idling 
dump truck. 

Professor Amy Hungerford, Director of 
Undergraduate Studies in the English De-
partment, thinks it is a positive sign that 
no promises have been made. She would 
see cause for alarm if Yale clung too te-
naciously to "definitive statements about 
what's staying and what's going and what's 
getting built." Hungerford is cautious-
ly optimistic about construction, even 
though her department, like most others, 
is already struggling with a constrained 
budget. 

She notes that the economic situation 
has created a strategic opportunity. It is 
probable not only that building costs are 
much lower now than they were two years 
ago, but also that they may increase again 
before the endowment regains value and 
fundraising goals are met.  

· Funhermore, while budget cuts areal-
ways difficult, Professor Hungerford sees a 
cha nee for Yale to reassess its priorities. ''A 
recession like this is an opponunity to look 
at the intellectual landscape - what fields 
seem less imponant now than they did 
twenty years ago. That's a necessary pro-
cess, and a really hard process," she says. 
Perhaps, she suggests, there are programs 
the University could afford to eliminate or 
scale back in order to allow construction 
to begin sooner, to take advantage of low 
building costs. 

"In the midst of cutting other 
operating expenses, dropping 
hundreds of millions of dol-
lars on gothic mansions for 
our students is bad P R for the 
nation as well as for faculty. 
The University should wait. " 

Professor Christopher Udry, chairman 
of the Economics Department, looks for-
ward eagerly to the construction of the 
new residential colleges. "The university 


getting bigger means on balance a better 
educational environment for students and 
a better research environment for faculty." 
But unlike Hungerford, Udry thinks that 
Yale isn't ready to start building yet. "They 
cannot go ahead and build the colleges 
until they push forward with faculty ex- .. 
pansion and curricular development," he 
insists. He says his department would need · 
five years to hire enough new faculty to ac-
commodate an expanded student body. 

It is expected that demand for economics 
courses will increase by more than ten per-
cent, since international students, whose . 
numbers continue to grow, tend to be 
more interested than American students in 
the social sciences, especially economics. 
But he expects the administration will co-
operate in helping his department expand. 
Jonathan Dach (YC '08) has always 
been a committed supporter of expan-
sion. While he was a student, . Dach was 
a member of the study group directed by 
President Levin to explore how the· plan 
for the expansion of Yale College could 
be best implemented. But he agrees with 
Udry. "In the midst of cutting other op-
erating expenses, dropping hundreds of 
millions of dollars on gothic mansions for 
our students is bad PR for the nation as 
well as for faculty. The University should 
wait," he says. 

BUT IF FACULTY ARE UPBEAT about the 
project, students seem to be either op-
posed or apathetic. A Yale Daily News poll 
in February 2008 found that only about 


a quarter of students supported expansion 
in principle, even fewer liked the idea of 
building the new colleges at the Prospect-
Sachem site: "Everyone thinks that their 
Yale .is the best," Dach explains. "There 
is reluctance on the behalf of current stu-
dents to innovate or change what works 
so well for them." Time will tell whether 
students' skepticism is misinformed or 
well-placed. 

Asked to explain the difference in opin-
ion between students and faculty on the 
question of expansion, Hungerford says, "I 
think it's because students are here for four 
years. For us, Yale is subject to change. We 
see things that seem so close to the hearts 
of students- four years later, they're gone." 

The story of Hammond Hall is a dem-
onstration of the University's capacity 
to evolve and change over time. During 
September and October, preservation-
ist groups such as the New Haven Urban 
Design League particularly objected to the 
demolition of Hammond Hall, both be-
cause of its architectural significance and 
its age: it has stood on Mansfield Street 
since 1904. 

The Hall was in Alderman Greg More-
head's ward, Ward 22. Regarding objec-
tions to its demolition, Morehead said he 
thought most residents liked the idea of 
the new residential colleges. Then he add-
ed, "Yale has been good about trying to do 
whatever it is the residents want, because 
they want to be a friendly neighbor. But 
when it comes to Yale, things are still go-
ing to get done, no matter what." 

Events bore out his prediction. On the 
evening of October 30, a ruined fa<;:ade is 
all that remains of Hammond Hall after 
a day of demolition. Birds fly in and out · 
of the empty windows, and the sun sets 
just inside the main double doors, which 
had been burst open by a flood of rubble. 
Large blocks of brick and cement lay on 
the porch on the sidewalk, as ifHammond 
Hall had built been of Legos and someone 
had been interrupted in the middle of tak- · 
ing them apart. 

Large blocks of brick and ce-
ment lay on the porch on the 
sidewalk~ as if Hammond 
Hall had built been of Legos 
and someone had been inter- · 
rupted in the _middle of tak-
ing it apart~ without time to 
clean up the pieces~ 

Perhaps in another hundred years, this 
spot will be covered in the debris of the 
fourteenth college. No· matter how im-
portant the new colleges seem to us and 
to President Levin, all the controversy and 
hope that surrounds them today will one 
day be forgotten and discarded, as was 
Hammond Hall, in favor of something 
newer. 

Max Ehrenfreund is a sophomore in 
Davenport College. 



**Title: New Haven Gray Squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis novus haven)**
**Author: Haley Cohen**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
New Haven Gray Squi1'rel (Sciurus carolinensis novus haven) 
Family: Scuriridae, Squirrels 
Description: The Eastern Gray Squirrel is a tree squirrel native to the eastern and Midwestern United States. 
ew Haven supports a 
specific strain of Eastern Gray Squirrel that is highly adapted to its environment. The diet ofNew Hav~n's Gray Squirrels consists of 
pilfered Pepe's crusts, Lithuanian Coffee Cake crumbs and Wenzel morsels. All of their observable behaviors revolve around acquiring 
these provisions and when not scouring dumpsters, they can be spotted breaking and entering rooms on Old Campus rumored to 
have peanut butter. Unlike standard. Eastern Gray Squirrels who are inherently quite fearful, New Haven's squirrels are undefeated 
at staring contests, no matter the species of their challenger. They are voracious procreators and male squirrels can often be spotted 
chasing female squirrels around courtyards or up trees, detennined to forward their line. Based on their rate of reproduction and 
mettle, the New Haven Gray Squirrel can be expected to take over the city in approximately 23 years. 


**Title: YALE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 32**

YALE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY 
3 9002 08153 9570 
Lectures made possible by 
Jacob & Hilda Blaustein Visiting Professor Fund, William & Miriam 
David A. Oestreich Fund, Sterling Memorial Library, and the Whitney Humanities Center . 

