Publication date: May 2, 1978
Volume: eleven
Issue number: four


**MASTHEAD**
- Editrix: L. Jane Dickinson
- Publisher: Beatrice H. Mitchell
- Designer: Mark Sheehan
- Managing Editor: Aaron Betsky
- Assistant Editor: Marilyn Achiron
- Graphics Editor: Karen Sideman
- Designer Emeritus: Armand LeGardeur
- Editorial Staff: Mary Schwarz, Snee, Lizzie Grossman, Peter Baldwin, Agnes Kolakowska, Johnny Ross
- Business Staff: William H. Wood III, Steve Rogers, Caroline Mitchell, Jim Clark
- Graphics Staff: Amy Reichert, Alfred Sturtevant, Eli Johnson
- Friends of the New Journal: Bill Tarbell, Dick Foote and The Banner, David Brewer, Lucy Hood, Penelope Mason, Mr. Muller, Julie House, Martha Hollander, Curt Sanburn
- Best Friend: Brenda Jubin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- comment: Christo's running fence, joy and sorrow at A & A, why don't they leave poor hanna alone?
- Letter from Cambridge - James Snead
- tea for tutors - Dick Pershan
- The Boys on the Bus - Snee
- jock rot? - James S. Patrick
- The True Story of Bonzo Quarnucci - Aaron Betsky
- jock trot
- Bring Your Sister for Malone - a story
- Boola Boola Building - architecture builds character nine different ways



**Title: comment**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 2**

Christo's running fence, joy and sorrow at A & A, why don't they leave poor hanna alone?


**Title: Letter from Cambridge**
**Author: James Snead**
**Page number(s): 3**

Springtime really blooms here, but thighs and shins stay white long beyond that. A good friend who just graduated from Saybrook came to visit me at the May Ball last June (the 'May' is British misdirection) only to ask why no one played Frisbee in Cambridge. "A question I asked myself at first, too," I said to her.


Spring brings knifeblades of bulb-shoots onto the perimeters of smooth carpeted grass that keeps its green long into fall; she, like I, had been accustomed to seeing oil-basted bodies browning by Berkeley wall, to watching the Cross Campus lawn pulverized, replanted, and annihilated again by over-calloused feet. It did not matter which way the bodies were turned or entwined - they were all white bodies in a supine line-up: you saw only a swath of hair and a pair of Polaroid sunglass lenses with mock-Gucci frames.


"Why don't the English lie out in the sun here?" she asked; no one was in sight.


"Because they want to stay English," I answered.


*


Every cloud has a silver lining. English skies have mostly clouds.


"Didn't you know," advised my plump Tutor, in his stately, cold room at St. John's College, "that the secret to enjoying England as a country is learning to get the most out of its teas?"


"Its teas?"


"Precisely. Its teas."


Teas flowing in and out of every pore; weekly trips with other Americans on fellowships to London stores or hotels where tea is a ritual of much weight - Fortnum and Mason's, Brown's (where Faulkner always insisted on staying), Harrod's; big teas and little teas; with demerara and granulated sugar; black or white; one or two; strainers to keep tiny tea leaves out; sweet, medium-dry, dry sherries after; exotic Oriental teas, murky, despotic, opium-smoking Fu Manchu teas; teas steeping placidly in teacups and teapots of china teaware, adm ist saucers full of crumpets and scones, livening Britain's chilly circulations.


None of it drives the English clouds away or the English out of doors. "It sure was awful when we had that drought here, back in the summer of '76," I heard one British student say. "Nothing but sun, sun, and more sun. I'll be damned if I didn't get so brown I'd turned into a Paki." This is a culture of the indoor life: clouds and the dribbling grey rain on chilly windowpanes. No one dares to go out in the Springtime heat for fear that they will find what they have missed before, that their bones will thaw and they will feel a colder coldness come wintertime. Tea (like the Deutsche Bundesbahn in Germany) is still the only thing in England, except for the Greenwich Observatory, that you can definitely set your watch by. 4:30 is time for tea.




I am now lost to Cambridge. It is a sign of healthy adjustment. Last month, crossing the Cam in the Basil Rathbone fog, I realized that I have become invisible to Cambridge as Cambridge had been to me. Invisible, because I no longer make mistakes here. I have grown used to hearing otherwise normal people say: "I could sure use a fag tonight," meaning 'cigarette'; or "I'm pissed," meaning 'drunk'; or "I think I'll go knock up a girlfriend of mine tonight," meaning 'to visit'. It was invisible to me for so long ... Sir Kenneth Clark ... Propert's Saddle Soap . . . Harvey's Bristol Cream: a potpourri of stereotypes, unseen, unheard as such. Now I end every statement with an interrogative, consensus-producing "... isn't it?" Now I am not overtly curious about anything. Nothing exists outside of England, except Wales, Scotland, and, remotely, Ireland. The sun never sets here.


"You Americans at Cambridge have it easy," said a pipe-smoking, phlegmatic American friend of mine at Oxford, who had been a nice guy at Yale. I wanted to leave, but there was only the infrequent and unreliable bus to ferry me back across country over the Midlands to the Eastern fens, and I knew I could not get back to Cambridge (so invisible that I call it 'home') unless I waited for him to drive me. "You all only have to put up with the British. Sure, they're boring and talentless. But we here at Oxford have the Americans and Canadians, too. What could be bloody worse? One doesn't have a single English friend here. You might as well be going to Yale again, mightn't you? Every third jacket in Oxford is of down, isn't it? Every sixth foot is sitting in an L.L. Bean hunting shoe or topsider. You haven't as many Americans as us down in Cambridge, have you?" I would have answered "No, we haven't," but I realized that the cultural interrogative was only a British effect, and rhetorical questions should always remain unanswered.




Political wines here are very thin. There are five South Africans living with me in my hostel who tell me that blacks have ruined America, and they won't let that happen in S.A. in a million years. The new Master of King's College is a celebrated English Marxist. He is served nightly on High Table by staff waitresses and servants making a pound an hour garbed in dour black robes. Pass the snuffbox, won't you? Cambridge owns Cambridge lock, stock, and barrel. New Haven, you never had it so good.


Jamie Snead is currently completing a second year of graduate work at St. John's College, Cambridge. He has completed a novel, Night Shades, soon to be published.


**Title: The Boys on the Bus**
**Author: Dick Pershan**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
l 
I 
4 
Cricket, Moon Beamy, Goldy Lox and the 
Three Hags, Uncle Wiggly, Third World, 
Silver Wheels, Karen, O.B., O.C., M.D. 
These ate the men and Karen of Yale 
baseball. These are the unsung suitors of 
Eli's spring. Of their travels and travails, 
their losses and their win, their days and 
mostly their nights, I sing. I am their muse. 
My music is their song. 

Saturday, March II. First of all, I 
should let you know. I'm no good -
that's both on the field and off it. 
Case in point: I just showed up fl.fteen 
minutes late (and without a pillow) 
for the bus (nicknamed Sputternick, 
after an incredibly sad knuckleball 
thrown by Ivan, our ambidextrous 
Russian transfer student) which is to 
chariot us to Florida for our aimual 
spring trip. This is no good. I'm not a 
starter and I don't have a pillow. 
Sputternick waits for no one, unless 
he has an ERA under 2.00 or a BA 
over 300. Or will eventually go on to 
play professional football. In the 
entire history of Yale baseball only 
two men have missed the bus and 
survived to tell about it -
Brian 
Dowling and Dick Jauron. But I 
don't want to play professional foot-
ball, and am, in fact, destitute of a 
pillow. 

At the bus I discover that everyone 
else is late as well, mostly hung over 
from a Rookie party held the night 
before. At 8:30A.M. Sputternick 
finally pulls out of Phelps Gate. We 
are heading down Route 95 to North 
Carolina, South Carolina, and Florida 
in order to play an eleven game 
schedule which is our version of the 
major league's spring training. Only 
our games count on our record, and 
we don't get paid. Our first day is to 
be spent entirely on the road, getting 
to know our Sputternick. With great 
circumspection we choose our seats 
and settle ourselves in cosily. We 
discover our Sputternick's innermost 
secrets, plumb her deepest caverns, 
and explore her tiniest crevices. We 
stop to check her pulse. Every so 
often we let her drink at a fast-food 
fountain. Once we pull over to the 
side of Route 95 and let her relieve 
herself. 

Choice of seats is actually quite 
important. A certain subtle hierarchy 
is mysteriously established as board-
ing proceeds. The front rows are 
occupied by Coach Kenzie (ex Eli, ex 
Met, and ex Expo) and his gang of 
card sharks, backgammon wizards, 
and assorted sycophants. These are 
the "moving men" of Eli baseball, the 
high-need achievers, the hustlers 
trying to crack the starting line-up or 
win millions of dollars in Topps 
chewing gum cards. All of them know 
that playing with Kenzie they can 
only win. If they whoop Coach at a 
game of black-jack, they can bribe 
him with the profits; if Coach whoops 
them (which never happens) they have 
succeeded in feeding his starved 
appetite for victory; they will be in the 
starting line-up the next day. 

In the middle of the bus are the 
vets. The guys with the pillows. 
In the back of the bus is Third 
World. And me. The rookies. When I 
selected my seat -
with astounding 
forethought -
for the privacy, quiet, 
and roadscape vista it apparently, 
and, indeed, actually affords, I failed 
to notice the large grey stall perched 
next to it in the corner. The notorious 
dumpster. Sputternick's tin tummy. I 
had unknowingly picked my place -
on a fully air-conditioned, all-window-
closed bus -
next to the most 
beloved seat. Some teammates drop 
by to visit. At first I think I'm 
popular. Later I detect a vaguely 
euphoric smile on the faces of my 
teammates as they return from the 
dumpster to their seats. Odors 
emanate. I consider emanating. I 
consider becoming odorous, but elect 
to become odious. I bar the aisle with 
the barricado of my legs and I rend 
the air with the howling of mystic 
incantations. 

A pit stop at a,.. hot spot somewhere 
in Virginia. Now we're on the road 
again. I have a baseball bat with me 
this time -
just in case the howling 
isn't enough of an arsenal to ward off 
any would-be defilers of the dumpster. 
I notice that Sputternick is beginning 
to lose velocity and fade anemicly to 
the right. Flashing lights. Some skin-
fead type in a navy blue get-up has 
pulled us over to the side of the road. 
"What's the matter,~ I moan drearily. 
"Copper," comes the reply from the 
front of the bus. 
"Quick, stash the stuff." 
Coach Kenzie turns around, be-
fuddled. 
"Bribe him," the shout goes up. 
"Yea, yea," peals of approval. 
Quickly, we pass around a baseball 
to get signatures from everyone on the 
team. Outside of the bus, the cop 
suddenly decides to let us go. The ball 
is ruined. 

The guys from Massachusetts make 
themselves evident. "Hey, look, aren't 
the trees weird down here." 
"Wait till you see the grass down in 
Kentucky." One of the vets. 
"No?" the Mass. boy replies, "Is it 
really blue?" 
"You bet," says Coach, "Our alums 
pay them to paint it for us." 

We are about to arrive at Wilming-
ton, North Carolina. It's II :30 at 
night and we've been on the road 
fifteen hours. Sputtemick sputters to 
a halt and the boys (and Karen) 
emerge woozily from their lofts and 
perches. Bodies descend from the 
luggage racks and crawl forth from 
beneath the seats. We enter our 
lodging for the night, and for the 
following three nights -
a former 
army barracks consisting of one 
dumpster and twenty-eight bunk beds 
lined side by side in a rectangular cell. 
Everyone grabs the bottom bunk 
except Moon Beamy (who likes the 
sensation of being high up). Once in 
bed, Cricket, a freshman, whips out a 
teddy bear, O.C., an Irishman, whips 
out his rosary, and Alvin, a music 
major, whips out something under-
neath his sheets. 

Suddenly, Coach Kenzie bursts into 
the barracks with Corporal Stanton, 
our trainer. Deferentially, I tap my 
heels together and salute .. 
"At ease, Private Pershan," allows 
Coach Kenzie. I put down the 
baseball bat and tuck it back under 
the sheets. I like sleeping with it; it 
makes me feel secure, like a clean-up 
hitter. And it reminds me of the Eli 
baseball motto: "If God had meant 
for his Elis to be hitters, they would 
have been born with bats between 
their legs." No wonder we can't hit. 
"Taps will be at midnight tonight, 
men," Coach announces, as a cannon 
goes off in the distance. Then Coach 
about-faces, and heads into town. As 
soon as he's out the door all the guys 
crack up in giant, jock giggles. "Chain 
dream, chain dream," comes the call 
from one of the beds. Uncle Wiggly, 
who is everyone's uncle and the best 
fairy-tale teller on the team, fishes out 
one of the rookies from his bed, and 
we proceed. 
"I'm thinking of something red and 
white with dots," Big Hags opens. 
"I told you not to get down on my 
mother," comes a shout of indignation 
from one of the beds. 
"Oh, oh, so you finally admit he 
got down on her." 
"Oh, foul ball, foul ball." The voice 
of Uncle Wiggly, who is also. our 
Captain and spiritual counselor. 
"She was, she was," the voice of 
Lowty, our general man-about-town, 
spiritual corruptor, and favorite guy. 
We got Lowty _through the Admis-
sion Office's special "You Name Him, 
We Tame Him" mail-away service. 
"That's enough fellas, knock it off," 
comes the stentorian voice of our 
leader, "We got a game tomorrow." 
"Jees, captain, did you have to spoil 
it," Goldy Lox, seconded by a chorus 
of whimpers. 

Sunday, March 12. At 11:00 we suit 
up for practice and sally forth to the 
battlefields. It is the first day we've 
been outside all season, so the guys all 
dress in T -shirts and gym shorts and 
try to ignore the cruel taunts of the 
scant spectators and the even crueler 
buffets of the wind. It is forty degrees 
warmer than it was in New Haven, or 
about 40°. Since this account is 
limited to what happened off the field, 
I cannot offer any report of the game, 
except to note that Moon Beamy 
made a spectacular diving catch and 
hit a home run. Neither of these 
events, of course, counted: the first 
occurring out of play, the second, in 
batting practice before the game. 

March 13. Our second day out and 
it's a beaut. We're on our famous 
sandwich schedule -
baseball, then a 
sandwich for lunch, then baseball.· But 
this time we win and there's cham-
pagne and euphoria in the locker 
room because we're spared our usual 
post-game jogging. That's real incen-
tive. We vow to win again the next 
day. 

That evening, at dinner, an Ivy 
Leaguer manque wearing topsiders 
and a Cornell crew sweat shirt sidles 
over to our table and introduces 
himself as Mark Davis. Now, we 
already know a Mark Davis, he's an 
outfielder on the Yale baseball team 
and one of the people to whom Mark 
Davis II has just introduced himself. 
Mark's southern twin ivy-league-ally 
slithers into some glib talk and winds 
up inviting the whole team to a 
southern-hospitality bash the next 
night. 

After dinner I trek across a sea of 
pine cones to visit the UNC library. 
My visit is made not so much out of 
any curiosity or need (I have; in fact, 
imported my own books from Yale, 
smuggled out of overnight reserve 
from CCL), as out of spite. It. makes 
my gut feel good. It makes Harkness 
Tower look taller. I sit in the 
reference room and smirk. I go to the 
bathroom and am happily appalled at 
the paucity and pissity of the 
grafeetity. On the walls of the stall I 
doodle tiny vignettes of Handsome 
Dan the XIV asserting himself man-
fully over Silly Willy III, the UNC 
mascot, a seagull. I feel honorable, 
pr..md, Bool-ish. 

Tuesday, March 14. I feel 
miserable. A New-Haven-like day. 
The air has that ubiquitous grey hue 
and sensation which makes us feel at 
home. Almost like eating at 
commoos. 

The game is frustrating, depressing, 
wounding. But we have agreed to 
attend Mark Davis Il's party after-
wards. He zips by at 9:00 in a TR 7 
two-seater. It takes nearly fourteen 
one-guest trips to shuttle us, but we 
finally arrive and, with the cold-
blooded calculation that only a Yalie 
could summon at such a moment, 
proceed to get totally trashed. The 
evening is very illuminating. At last 
we find out who the real hitters are. 
At 12:00 curfew we drive back to the 
barracks, but Moon Beamy, Big 
Hags, and Lowry stuff their beds with 
clothing, sticking caps on their pil-
lows, lower themselves out the 
windows with a rope improvised of 
bed sheets, and scatter into the 
woods. When they reappear the next 
morning, each sports at UNC at 
Wilmington T -shirt. Trophies. I make 
a mental note to visit the UNC 
bookstore first thing in the morning


**Title: The True Story of Bonzo Quarnucci**
**Author: Snee**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

• 
the new journal, May 2, 1978 
5 
Many people question the credi-
bility of Yale's admission policy 
towards athletes. Like all issues that 
appear to have a loose end somewhere 
(the Warren Commission, for ex-
ample, or whether Farrah is really a 
lesbian), Yale's recruiting policy 
invites skepticism. Ever since I saw 
John Pagliaro taking notes with 
crayons, I've had my own doubts. 
Having proven myself a poor 
investment on the football office's 
balance books -
I was a hopelessly 
undernourished, overconfident passing 
quarterback, a gazelle in a herd of 
buffalo, as I like to think of it -
can still imagine people looking at me 
with the same skepticism. And I am 
basically familiar with the processes 
which bring the objects of this · 
::kepticism to Yale. 

The NCAA and Ivy League recruit-
ing guidelines, which are changed 
more often than my underwear, rule 
the procedure. The Ivy League, 
because of its ideal philosophy of 
intercourse between athletics· and aca-
demics, offers no scholarships. 
("Ideal," as far as I can tell, means 
athletics should be forced into a 
meaningful love affair with academia, 
instead of a casual erotic affiliation.) 
Through the graces of the NCAA, 
Yale nevertheless competes for 
athletes with reichs like Michigan, 
USC and Notre Dame. Any athlete 
on financial aid in the Ivies is 
considered in the same light as 
someone at a Big Ten School on a 
"full-ride," which is legally defined as 
tuition, room and board, period. Each 
school is limited to a total of 105 
scholarships for all sports, though 
only varsity athletes count. (How 
Carro must have twitched with delight 
when my name went off the roster.) 

The alums foot most of the bill for 
this operation, and Yale's recruiting 
dollars come directly from Old Blues 
all over this great country of ours. 
Tigers and Cantabs do the same for 
their Alma Maters. And while Ray 
Carazo and Carro enjoy a bottle of 
wine somewhere, Old Blues scour the 
sports pages looking for talented 
young studs and studettes with good 
grades. A major conference school 
like Michigan has an astronomical 
number of dedicated alums, and 
regional loyalties are involved. 

Carro and Ray get the scoop from 
the alums and, in the words of a 
Times Square vendor, "check it out." 
The impressior.able youths in question 
are then inunJated with form letters, 
phone calls and good advice: if you 
don't go to Yale, you'll be a ditch-
digging Cleveland State dropout. The 
various football coaches get the 
proper information and then it's their 
ball. 

Like sailors in a brothel on payday, 
the coaches actively pursue the 
available talent and meet the recruits 
in one-horse towns everywhere, if 
possible. They assess all the available 
facts, watch movies, talk with coaches 
about the recruit's attitude and poten-
tial: my own high school coach was a 
convicted con man. Some sports, such 
as gymanstics, fencing and women's 
as gymnastics, fencing and wome~'s 
softball recruit via phone and mat! for 
the most part. simply because of lack 
of funds. Translated, that means lack 
of alumni interest, which may be due 
to lack of success on the playing field, 
or may simply reflect overall attitudes 
towards sports which are less extr~va­
gant in terms of spectator populanty. 
(Quick: who was the captam of the 
fencing team the same year John 
Smoot was the football captain?) 

Enter once again the NCAA. The 
impressionable youths will want to see 
the holy temple of higher education 
they've been hearing so much about, 
but there are strings attached. Sup-
posing Jimmy (Bonzo) Quarnucci; all-
Ohio, brick-eating fullback with 800 
SATs wants to see Yale? You can bet 
your mother's padded bra that Carro 
will invite him up. Carro calls Nathan 
Sterney Whitling Osborne the fifti.eth, 
rich Old Blue, and sings Bonzo's 
praises. Bonzo receives a plane ticket 
to Hartford, gets a ride to Yale, stares 
at his first Gothic building and, open-
mouthed and drooling, shakes hands 
with Carro. He eats lunch with "real, 
live college football players!" and gets 
drunk for the next two days. Needless 
to say, he goes back to Waponetka 
highly impressed. This is what is 
known by the NCAA as a "paid 
visit": the recruit receives food, lodg-
ing and/or transportation a Ia Uni-
versity, which in Yale's case means the 
alums. Bonzo was sponsored by 
Osborne. 

Now, supposing Ringo Slowrunner, 
a lackluster place-kick holder from 
New Rochelle, wants to visit. In spite 
of his acne and crooked eyes, Carro 
will invite him up. "Ringo," he'd say, 
"Get in your father's Rambler and 
come on up." Ringo will drive up, get 
lost on Dixwell A venue, shake Carro's 
hand (maybe) and get a free lunch 
with an assistant coach who will yawn 
frequently. Then Ringo will drive 
·back home, also a highly impressed 
youth. This visit is known simply as a 
"visit," and Ringo can come back 
every day for a year to do the same, 
and as far as the NCAA is concerned, 
he hasn't had a "visit." Woody Hayes 
won't have Carro assassinated for 
feeding the likes of Ringo. "Paid 
visits" are for the blue-chippers. 

A university (Division I to the 
NCAA) is allowed to have 95 such 
youths come on "paid visits." These 
ninety-five are a select group who 
A) Probably qualify academically, 
B) Want to come here, C) Weigh 
about 250 pounds, D) Are favorites of 
the alums who want to "sponsor" 
their visits, E) Eat a lot of raw meat. 
And there is no way someone who 
hasn't already applied to Yale will get 
the Bonzo Quamucci treatment. 

Bonzo, or Ringo, or anyone else is 
allowed six of these paid visits to 
various schools, according to the 
NCAA, so he must also assess the 
situation. 

Now that the leg work is done, the 
Ringos and Bonzos sorted out, Carro 
and his boys (all the athletic depart-
ments' coaches) sit back and wait for 
Bonzo is a "highly diversified young man 
with many interests outside aca~emics" 
women, booze, tying his shoelaces. 
Worth David's crew at the Admis-
sions Office. Sort of. 

If you believe that Worth and the 
friendly folks at admissions haven't 
heard about Bonzo's talent, then 
you're an idealist who probably 
boycotts everything and eats wheat 
germ. For the record, there is a ~'very 
formal" liaison between Admissions 
and Ray Tomkins House. (Her name 
is Margot and I bet she's a looker.) It 
is her responsibility to find out from 
the various coaches who's a Bonzo 
and who's a Ringo, and she gets the 
word from Gib Holgate, Associate 
Director of Athletics, who gets his 
info from the horses' mouths, the 
coaches. Gib might tell Margot that 
Bonzo is "a highly diversified young 
man with many interests outside of 
athletics" -
women, booze, tying his 
shoelaces. Margot, not being a 
moron, will report to Worth that 
man who eats bricks and kills small 
animals for kicks." 

The whole mess is now in Worth's 
lap. Now, from my own experience as 
a recruit, I know that certain aspects 
of the admissions process are not as 
airtight as they seem on paper. For 
instance, I was allowed to send in my 
application on February 2, though the 
deadline plainly reads "January 1." I 
asked Mr. David about this, expecting 
him to break into a cold sweat and 
offer me a few C-notes not to let on. 
He sat back, smirked, and stated that 
the deadline was an ideal and that it 
might be extended for anyone. (A 
definite retroactive blow to my ego.) 
Idealist, strike two. When you were 
sweating it out over a Yale applica• 
tion while your family enjoyed 
Christmas dinner, you could have 
been munching wheat germ instead of 
developing ulcers. The deadline, as 
Mr. David puts it, is "to give us a 
reasonable amount of time to review 
all the applicants." It is not, alas, a 
life-and-death boundary. 

People like Bonzo, who kill small 
animals and eat bricks, are part of 
what Worth calls "a representative 
class, not 1300 statistics." He also says 
that "not everyone we admit is a 
potential Phi Beta Kappa." (The 
idealists shake bony fists at the idea.) 

Could Worth be avoiding the ques-
tion? When asked if the admissions 
office, i.e., W.D., had any thought in 
general on athletic recruits, Mr. David 
replied, cool as ever, that, "First of 
all, we don't admit anyone who isn't 
capable of doing the work at Yale. 
Secondly, we know that athletes have 
successfully demonstrated their energy 
and motivation and we know that this 
motivation may be adapted to fit into 
their Yale experience. We want to 
admit someone whose Yale experience 
will be fruitful even if athletics fade 
from the picture," for instance be-
cause of injury, or undernourishment 
and overconfidence. (I was beginning 
to like this guy.) 


**Title: The Saybrook "Round Table"**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 5**

The Saybrook "Round Table," although a recent 
tradition, is ... well, formidable. In the general dining hall 
scheme of things, the Round Table carries a great deal of 
weight, about a ton, by recent estimate based on the 
number of bodies and their relative size. How Saybrook, 
and the Table in particular, has amassed so much ... 
presence, shall we say, is the subject of debate on evenings 
at dinner when the only other thing you can think of to talk 
about is how much work you have. One theory claims that 
the dining hall floor is lower at this point than at any other, 
and that the football team has collected there by sheer force 
of gravity. This would be difficult to prove, but it is 
certainly true that the Round Table is closest to the kitchen, 
and is so situated that no one can pass in or out of the 
dining hall unobserved by its denizens. It is also true that, 
when an alternative arrangement of the table was suggested 
to the dining hall manager, he demurred on the grounds 
that "The Round Table wouldn't like it." The Round Table 
is always spoken o'f in capital letters. The Round Table is 
impossible to ignore. Not that anyone would want to. Like 
a bouquet of Yale's biggest and bestest, the Round Table 
adorns each meal in Saybrook, the focal point of the dining 
room. A must for the home decorator, in five different 
colors. A certain quality of monumentality presides over 
Saybrook with the Round Table, a quality for which the 
college is justly renowned. Who else can boast the combined 
presences of Vito, Nubes, and Ziroccoco at breakfast, lunch 
and dinner? The Round Table is a legend in its own time 
which, like the phoenix, dies each May, only to reappear 
again in the fall with a few new faces but the same 
approximate poundage. The mysterious self-perpetuation of 
the Round Table is only one aspect of its myth, which will, 
we fervently hope, go down in Yale History like the old 
Brick Row. 


**Bring Your Sister for Malone**
**Author: James S. Patrick**
**Page number(s): 7-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
the jungle silence is broken by the 
sound of my shit hitting the ground 
from up here. Not real busy in the 
middle of the hot afternoon so I keep 
crapping and radio Malone at the 
next position to let him know he owes 
me fifty big ones on the Ohio State-
._ Michigan game. I squat up in the tree. 
"Come in, Monkey 3, this is Monkey 
4. You owe me fifty bucks, Malone." 
Monkeys do it this way and so do I. 
"Roger, Monkey 4, this ii Monkey 
3, Skremsky speaking. Malone says 
you're lyin'. He hasn't head any score 
yet." 
"This is Monkey 4 and you tell 
Malone to quit smoking that mind-
killin' weed and that he owes me fifty 
clams." "I heard it on my little 
transistor radio. Tell him to catch the 
six o'clock Radio Saigon Sports 
Show." 

I wipe my ass and wait for a reply. 
They gave me a plastic bag so no one 
could smell me up here, but those 
gooks can smell a white man a 
hundred yards away and they don't 
need to smell his shit to know he's 
there. I dump it out of this little 
treetop bungalow so I can't smell it. 
" Monkey 3 to Monkey 4. That's a 
negative. It's against orders to have 
.,. any non-Army equipment in sniper 
nests. Over ... Malone's voice. 
··You damn, welching lifer, Malone, 
I'll transmit it to you then. That'll be 
flfty bucks on Wednesday. Over and 
out ... Malone'd pimp his mother to 
avoid paying off a bet. An RA, royal 
asshole or regular army, lifer, in for 
. life or till he dies, whichever comes 
first. Enlisted, not drafted ass. Christ, 
it still smells up here, and no matter 
what I do I can smell it. 

Even so, it's an amazing set-up, up 
here. I get a two week supply of food, 
a radio for transmitting troop move-
ments to artillery, a first-aid kit, 
water, and it's all laid out on top of a 
big net which is home for two weeks. 
Sniper Nest. Almost invisible from the 
ground too, but even so I better bit 
any gook that gets close enough to 
smell me or I'm a treed 'coon with a 
hundred little yellow dogs on my tail. 
It'd be pretty hard for that to happen. 
There's a whole line of sniper nests 
1 here. Huh, I got stuck next to 
Malone. 

Nothing to fJie at so I clean my 
weapon. It's quiet now. Amazing 
weapon, the M-16, capable of firing 
two hundred rounds in a few seconds, 
ten .. bullets" in each shot, like a 
cannon full of nails. You can control 
the bullets like water with a garden 
hose. Real wide spray for short range, 
real narrow for long range. I use long 
range. My targets usually show up 
two hundred yards in front of me on 
the Big Trail, and the poor suckers 
never know what hit 'em. I never 
miss, and seeing as how I can get off 
ten rounds in a wink ifs just a sealed 
package when I pull the trigger. 

Getting a little darker now, almost 
six,' and I transmit my Korean 
transistor to Malone to remind him 
that even though be outranks me a 
notch, be still owes me. The sound of 
the score confirms my kill on his 
money. 

So I sit up here smoking cigarettes 
and listening to Radio Saigon. Maybe 
take another shit, who knows? Right 
;on the DMZ and the big trail looking 
:for the little fellas to walk down the 
·thirty foot section that I can make out 
clearly. Thirty feet ain't that much, 
but soon as I see a gook prancing 
along I just take the old M -16 and 
put the lights out on him, hear the 
rest hit the dirt. I radio artillery and 
it's just a matter of the pansies 
shelling the daylights out of 'em. 
Works pretty good, too. I've had the 
little devils shelled fifteen times in the 
last three days. Hasn't been that busy 
since the New Year's fJieworks last 
year. Gooks must be moving in. 

Two more days for me until they 
send up ·another group of snipers for 
this line. Two men to a tree. I'm 
alone, though, because my partner got 
nailed four days ago. Fragments from 
a stray U.S. shell. They're a lot more 
dangerous than the gooks. I had to 
dump him out of the tree too, and 
when there's no wind I can smell him 
dead down there. No replacement for 
him. Didn't want to give away the 
pos1tion with the heavy VC activity 
and all. Eighty yards each side of me 
are teams doing the same job as me, 
but I hear me shooting a lot more 
than I hear them shooting. North of 
me there's my sector leader, RA, 
dopehead and welcher all in one -
Malone, and Skremsky. They rarely 
shoot anything and when I hear their 
shots I keep my eyes wide open 
because whatever they missed will 
show up in my sector, sometimes 
wounded, and I doubt if they've ever 
had a clea:t kill. Not like me. I kill -
now. The guys South of me are 
connected to a different artiiiery 
group so I don't have much to do 
with them and besides, I have the 
gooks on their asses before they get 
that far down the trail. I'm a damn 
good sniper. 

Now in sniper training the first 
thing they tell you is Don't Smoke. 
Group leader emphasized the fact that 
smoke coming from a tree is a dead 
giveaway of a sniper position. Tough 
beans, lifer. The second rule is No 
Radio Contact, except for artillery or 
first aid. The static of a radio's sound 
carries like a .. son of a bitch," he told 
us. That's life, lifer. I'd go loony 
without Radio Saigon, bad as it is, up 
here with me. Right now I can hear 
The Cowsills singing some stuff about 
long hair, which I used to have. 
Maybe next I'll bear Bing Crosby. 
Just as good as that Crosby, Nash, 
Stills junk. I don't need big musical 
experiences, just noise. The silence 
can drive you batty. It'd be nice to get 
out of here soon. I ate all the decent 
food they gave us like Hershey bars 
and peanuts and about the only thing 
left that I can stomach is powdered 
milk and some nasty beef jerky. I get 
more money for working in this 
penthouse. 

It's completely dark now and I have 
to use the infrared scope to see much 
of anything. A human body looks like 
a little red outline in the infrared 
scope. Cute little outlines too. No 
such thing as darkness for the infrared 
scope. Last night was pretty quiet, 
only five targets spotted. Five kills. 
Well, I'm going to catch a few hours 
sleep. I'll fire a few rounds in the 
vicinity of the trail and have artillery 
send a few big boomers over that 
way. I'll try and get the potheads to 
cover my section and keep me 
informed if anything serious comes 
up, while I'm sleeping. Then I'll grab 
some powdered milk and go back to 
work. I hope my ex-partner's smell 
isn't too bad tonight. I'm getting sick 
of smelling a corpse. I sleep. 

Mostly I dream of other things 
when I sleep up here. No army 
uniforms, no slant-eyes. Just women, 
sexy, soft women inside warm rooms 
with fur-lined walls. Come on baby, 
love those fur-lined walls, and just 
check out the beautiful women I see 
in my sleep. Busty blondes, leggy 
redheads, brown-eyed Italian 
brunettes. Just a few hours of 
beauty . . . 

I know it's going to be pitch black 
out when I wake up, but I make sure 
my mind knows what I'm going to see 
before I open my eyes. The darkness 
changes nothing I see in daylight. I 
have the infrared. I'm convincing 
myself that what I'm about to see is 
real because if I don't I'll be grouchy 
all day, or night, as the case may be. 
Tonight in the black I bear gunfire 
before I'm ready to open my eyes, 
making me have to open them and 
know I'm going to be grumpy. It's 
coming from a couple hundred yards 
south of me. Odd, I should have 
heard something on the radio. The 
gooks never get that far down the 
trail. I'm confused. Better wake up. 

Gunfire waking me up makes my 
stomach want to scoot out my butt. 
Maybe I'm dreaming, but there's 
usually a notable absence of gunfire in 
dreams about naked women. Still, I 
feel- safe due to experience. I call the 
nest north .of me ... no answer. 
Scope my section of the trail and the 
whole scope lights up red like a 
Christmas tree. Heavy, heavy move-
ment. I radio artillery. No need for 
me to fire at that many gooks, let the 
big boys do it. 

.. Monkey 4 calling for heavy artil-
lery barrage at coordinates R 15 by 
Z3." I try and be quiet. "Come in, 
Peashooter?" 

.. Negative Monkey 4 . . . uh ... 
You still up there?" 

.. No, I'm in Cleveland. I need heavy 
barrage now, Peashooter." 

"Ub, artillery is mobile in a west-
ward direction. No possibility of fiiing 
barrage at those coordinates ... Ub, 
retreat was ordered two hours ago ... 
urn ... Monkey 3 said you was dead 
when we radioed them. VC offensive 
moving in ..... 

.. Retreat?" Shit. ''Could you give 
me some mortar fire?" 

..Negative, Monkey 4, out of range. 
Get out of there. New sniper line is 
being set up at Z7 line with artillery 
support. Retreat at once." 

.. Send me a chopper with rockets, 
Peashooter." 

.. Roger, Monkey 4. Will call air-
borne. Over and out ... Good luck." 

Oh Jesus. Malone. I light a 
cigarette and immediately bear distant 
voices and a few leaves ripping with 
pellets zipping through the trees. 
Some gook must have seen the match 
light, but be's lost me now. Gooks 
must still be pretty far away. Minutes 
go by and I hum a little tune and 
think. No chopper pilot's going to fly 
into this at night, he'd be a sitting 
duck, and a rea.l noisy one. If be came 
he'd have to blow up the whole area, 
including me, just to get close enough 
to drop me a chair, if he could see 
me. Shit. Hell no, I'm getting out. 
Malone and Skremsky, kiss your asses 
goodbye. Now for business. 

Z7 is four miles due west. Trail 
number two beads that way. Booby 
traps on the trail. In the dark yet. 
Maybe Malone got a bamboo stick up 
his nose. Better scope the entire area. 
Big trail's running with the suckers. 
More than a hundred. No use 
shooting that mob. A few shots 
coming in my direction now and then. 
They can smell me. I know it. Scope 
the northern end. Damn near thick as 
grass a hundred yards up there. The 
gooks are moving heavy, real heavy. 
The southern end. Lots of them, but 
the whole concentration is over a 
hundred yards east of my position. 
Cover everything from there to here 
with the scope. Picks up any body 
heat. Ab, five little outlines flfty yards 
north and moving this way. Got to 
freeze 'em. I nail three of them with a 
burst of flfty rounds. Now the rest of 
the gooks are shooting at my area. 
Lots of stuff getting ripped up in the 
trees. Gooks ain't got infrared. But I 
hear the zips getting closer now. I 
better get out. I put the rope out of 
the nest, turn up my transistor radio. 
Hope the gooks still think I'm up 
here. It'll at least make the sound of 
me less obvious. 

Halfway down my foot gets zipped 
and it's numb. Now it's starting to 
hurt, but I'm down. I empty a few 
hundred rounds aU over the place and 
pop a flare up into my old nest. Tree 
lights up. They shoot about a million 
7 
rounds at it and I make tracks down 
• 


**Boola Boola Building**
**Author: Aaron Betsky**
**Page number(s): 8-12**

probably understood this better than 
anybody else and expressed this 
process and these values in their 
buildings. 

a polemic paraphrase 
When you enter your o~k-paneled, 
carved-stone bedroom, or approach 
the altar of Sterling Library, or 
ascend the Kline Spaceport, or pene-
trate the jewelbox of the British Art 
Center, you are, whether you like it or 
not, defining your existence as a Yale 
Man: Race, sex and political beliefs 
have nothing to do with it. The stones 
and concrete of this little piece of the 
Ivy League care only about the way 
their imagery can transform you into 
a loyal son of Old Eli. The last three 
presidents of Yale and half-a-century 
worth of Yale architects all believed in 
the conscious or unconscious program 
shared by almost all Yale buildings 
built in this century. The campus of 
Yale University is an everlasting 
tribute to the power of architecture in 
helping to form Men or, as one 
graduate student defined it, to "the 
ability of a lot of money, very 
tastefully applied, to co-opt absolutely 
everybody." 

Although the bulk of the Yale 
undergraduate experience takes place 
in an environment created by ·one 
architect and several capitalists -
the 
Gothic of James Gamble Rogers, built 
with the money of Harkness, Sterling, 
Cross and several others in the 
twenties and thirties -
Rogers and 
his donors were already working in a 
fairly well-established framework. 
Architects since then have continued 
to refine their images in terms of that 
framework, which can only be defined 
as the Yale Tradition. 

. Yale's first buildings were unpre-
possessing structures that might have 
housed any large New England enter-
prise. Typified by the Old Brick Row, 
they were square blocks in the 
reserved Colonial and Federalist style. 
It wasn't till after the Civil War, when 
Yale started to be both a major force 
in the city of New Haven and a large 
institution with its own traditions and 
identity, that the Yale buildings, 
mainly on the Old Campus, started to 
become more identifiable. 

The first Post-Bellum impulse was 
to be proud and open. Osborne Hall, 
which stood on the corner of Chaoel 
and College Streets, reflected this · 
opturusm, opentng up to the city with 
wide steps and poly-chromatic stone 
facade, large arches bending around 
the comer. Other buildings, such as 
Farnam Hall and Durfee, exploded 
with neo-Gothic turrets and beauti-
fully carved stone. YalC was no longer 
a somber divinity school, and its 
architecture, spearheaded by the f'rrst 
architecture school in America, was as 
bold as the young men immortalized 
on the walls of Mory's and in the 
yellowing pages of old class records. 
They have a stem look, are well 
dressed, athletic and careless, and 
their environment matched this bold 
and colorful image. 

But the buildings, by their very 
nature as institutions. discinlined with 
'their tall walls, narrow and heavy 
moldings. They did so even more when 
the city of New Haven discovered 
exactly how carelessly self-confident 
these Yalies were feeling, and reacted 
against them in, among other inci-
dents, the famous riot of 1914. Yale, 
as an institution, started to close itself 
off from the city and became a 
bastion, a closed castle on the highest 
side of the Green, a protective and 
aggressive stronghold of New England 
capitalist values. 

~n the roaring twenties, Yale be-
came more democratic, more open to 
the bright and the rich of all levels of 
society, as its outlook and dimensions 
expanded. The money that fueled this 
expansion came from some who 
didn't belong to the old families, who 
were not dedicated to the preservation 
of the White Anglo-Saxon Protestant 
Capitalist way of life, but to the 
pursuit of wealth, period. However, 
they felt that Yale and all it repre-
sented was absolutely necessary. Yale 
made a young man of talent into a 
Henry Luce or a Cole Porter or a 
Harkness: a successful member of this 
country's elite. The Yale Man became 
a definable being, commemorated in 
American folklore, whose central 
attributes were success, power and 
creativity. 

Architecture was a pnme tool in th( 
acculturation which built this image. 
James Gamble Rogers (himself a Yale 
Man) and his network of donors 
For its expansion, Yale adopted the 
system which had successfully kept 
the self-perpetuating elite of Oxford 
and Cambridge going for several 
hundred years. Somewhere in Yale's 
voluminous archives, there allegedly 
exists a box of postcards and draw-
ings from which Rogers used to steal 
ideas -
often quite literally -
for his 
designs on the Yale campus. But 
Rogers' own adaptation of that 
Gothic language helped to define the 
Yale Man. 

The two most obvious features of 
Rogers' architecture here are the 
tower and the courtyard, and since his 
time they have become the most 
dominating themes in all Yale archi-
tecture. The courtyard derives directly 
from its English models, but here has 
a very special meaning. Its potential 
was perhaps suggested to Rogers by 
the success of the great sheltered 
courtyard of the Old Campus. Always 
set off of the axes of New Haven and 
controlled not by open colonnades or 
by entrances through large public 
spaces, but by comparatively small 
and threatening gates, it represents the 
private, introspective and elitist side 
of Yale. Magnificently scaled, these 
courtyards are controlled by several 
distinct landmarks: the dining hall, 
the entryway-passage and -axis, often 
including subsidiary courtyards or 
narrow paths between forbidding 
walls, and the wasteful space of the 
towers, great masses of stone given 
over wholly to the message of a proud 
university displaying its wealth and 
intellectual power, in contrast to the 
inner sanctum of the courtyard itself. 

The courtyards and the dining halls 
were and are the places where the Yale 
Man is celebrated and formed by social 
accultqration. 

Rogers was playing historic games 
with the language of his towers and 
the statues with which he filled them. 
They are the spires of a new church of 
knowledge, whose body, the dining 
hall, takes the place of the church in 
the original monastery model as the 
place of public gathering. (Battell 
Chapel is Yale's only surviving 
church, and it doesn't even have a 
spire.) In the basement of Beinecke, 
there is a series of drawings by 
Rogers' office of some of the walls of 
the Harkness complex (Branford and 
Saybrook Colleges) in which every 
stone is carefully rendered in its 
casual uneveness, and then numbered 
for exact duplication by the stone-
cutters. These walls and their open-
ings are meant to be complex in both 
·historic and architectural terms, gently 
revealing the tradition and the future 
available here. Nowhere else has such 
a beautiful marriage of private and 
institutional objectives taken place in 
the creation of space. 

On the outside, these colleges have 
reached a perfect understanding with 
New Haven. They do not loom over 
the street; in fact, they meet it with 
very humanly scaled walls. But they 
clearly define the character of Yale. 
On the outside they conform and tell 
New Haveners about their values; on 
the inside, the New Haven street axis 
is often shifted slightly and the world 
of the courtyard envelops the Yale 
Man like a womb. 

The architects bu'ilding along with 
and after Rogers all conformed to thi~ 
plan -
as Calhoun College and the 
Hall of Graduate Studies show. But 
Rogers was the master in this lan-
guage and his greatest work, the 
Sterling Memorial Library, is a monu-
rpent to all of these themes. Sterling is 
a religious paean to Alma Mater, Our 
Lady of the Circulation Desk who 
looms over the dispensing-place of 
knowledge, symbol of the spirit which 
built this place, which inhabits it and 
which will form all of the library's 
partakers into its devout followers. 
Ironically, rebel forces have pene-
trated this Sanctum Sanctorum of the 
Yale Man. in the left-hand comer of 
the mural, a carpenter holds up a 
hammer and a sickle to the Lady. 

After the second world war, when 
America ruled the world and Yale, 
Harvard and Princeton ruled 
America, a new university president 
set out to further expand Yale, self-
consciously using the architecture to 
convey the proper image. A. Whitney 
Griswold, a scion of the best Yale 
families immersed in both the realities 
and the tradition of Yale, thought of 
the university concretely as having 
"buildings as lessons," reflecting the 
philosophy of Thomas Jefferson. 

Jefferson thought that his campus for 
the University of Virginia would teach 
its students the new values of en-
lightened, humane rationality. 

Griswold believed that Yale's build-
ings should show the diversity, the 
unbounded possibilities of architec-
ture and, by implication, of Amencan 
society. As one member of the Archi-
tecture School said, in an article/ 
interview with Griswold: "The ad-
ministration views the architecture of 
the university as an integral part of 
the educational process .... It is 
understood that architecture is largely 
a matter of intangibles, and that cost, 
while it is ill'\portant, is not the most 
important consideration." 

These were heady days for Yale and 
Yale architecture. While the university 
expanded r~pidly, it began to strain 
the boundaries of its walls, bursting 
out in the late fifties and early sixties 
with a great flood of buildings: the 
new art gallery, Science Hill, includ-
ing the massive Kline complex, the 
Whale, the Art and Architecture 
building, CCL and the monstrosities 
plunked down at the medical school. 
It was university policy to attract the 
top architects of the country to do at 
least one building at Yale, creating a 
stellar display of whatever American 
architecture had to offer. Yale quickly 
became, and remains, one of the 
centers of architecture in the 
country -
every single 'name' archi-
tect having either graduated from 
here, taught here or built here, often 
all three. Overlooking the dazzling 
panorama of talent, in which each 
building supposedly represents a stvle 
absolutely and polemically inimical 
to !he structure next to it, one 
nevertheless feels that all of these 
buildings have done no more than 
{urther define the image of the Yale 
Man. 

There is a very obvious reason for 
this: the most architecturally influen-
tial man at Yale during Griswold's 
presidency was Yale graduate Eero 
Saarinen, of whom Griswold himself 
said: "[I] came to have a great feeling 
of confidence in his opinion. I used to 
have long conversations with him 
about Yale ... from then until his 
death, Lhe) became the most influen-
tial spirit and voice in our site 
planning ... and in our building 
program." One becomes conscious of 
that famous "old boy network" which 
partially controls everything from the 
people who teach at the Architecture 
School to the architects who get the 
big commissions here. As any good 
Yalie knows, it is who you know that 
counts, perhaps because it is easier to 
trust a commonality of values and 
outlook than the cold facts of a 
resume. 

Saarinen understood what Yale was 
all about and, in designing the two 
new colleges paid for by Paul Mellon, 
our present-day Harkness, he followed 
the Rogers System. Using his own 
historical reference, the Italian village 
of San Gimigiano, he built the same 
off-axis courtyards opening up from 
narrow paths of entry and focused on 
the great volumes of the dining hall 
and the towers. The complexity with 
which the walls recede and advance 
matches that of Rogers' accidental 
stone walls. Saarinen wanted these 
modern, poured-concrete colleges to 
parallel those of his great predecessor. 
He had stones fitted into the forms of 
the concrete, around which the pour.:. 
ing was done. Later, judging the 
finished walls not 'stony' enough, he 
had workmen chisel away at the 
concrete and place more stones in the 
already set wall. Saarinen preached 
sensitivity and controlled monumen-
tality, and he successfully created a 
beautiful new home for the Yale Man 
with those terms. 

In the over-confident years of "The 
Best and the Brightest," when 
America was over-reaching itself in 
Vietnam, Yale over-reached itself on 
Beinecke Plaza. Dedicated to that 
arcanest aspect of Yale, the careful 
preservation of endless tomes of rusty 
knowledge, this scaleless wonder was 
originally conceived of, according to 
local folklore, in green onyx. When 
the architects, representatives of 
America's favorit~ corporate archi-
tectural firm Skidmore, Owings and 
Merrill, discovered that there was not 
enough commercially available onyx 
in the world to build this monster, 
they chose translucent marble; it is 
still, according to rumor, the most 
expensive building per square foot 
ever built. (These last facts cannot be 
verified because of Yale's secrecy in 
such matters.) At the same time, 
Beinecke broke all of the traditions, 
destroying a. courtyard, conforming to 
the axis of the streets and to a single 
scale. Like the average Yalie in the 
corporate world, it is hard, inhuman 
and yet magnificently cogent on the 
outside, meticulously detailed, 
luminous and elegant on the inside. 

Other disasters befell Yale: Becton, 
Helen Hadley Hall, and the new 
D.U.H. building sent such defenders 
of the sensitive Yale tradition as 
Vincent Scully howling in outrage. 
Another debacle, somewhat later in 
date, was Cross Campus Library, 
given over to Edward Larrabee 
Barnes, the favorite architect of the 
next president of Yale. Though it 
managed to surrender to the great 
Yale tradition, it is a badly designed 
building which gives in to that tradi-
tion without adding any creative 
elaboration of its own. 

By the time of President Kingman 
Brewster, Yale had come up with a 
grand plan for its further develop-
ment. This plan, unveiled in January 
of 1965, called for the expenditure of 
no less than $100 million for the 
construction of what amounted to a 
completely new campus. Cross 
Campus was to be extended across 
College Street, breaking through the 
New Haven street plan once more, 
and the whole block from there down 
to Temple Street was to house a 
massive set of social science buildings. 
Becton had already been planned. 
·Kline Science Center was the second 
of the projects, together with the new 
math building, transforming Science 
Hill into a monolithic monument to 
the computer, the test tube and the 
slide rule. The third project called for 
the massive expansion of the facilities 
at the medical school. 

Obviously and, some would say, 
luckily, this plan was never fully 
carried out. Yale realized, in the late 
sixties, its limitations. Its own stu-
dents, the city of New Haven and the 
demographics and economics of 
America each revolted against the 
transformation of the creative Yale 
Man, housed in a humanistically 
scaled cainpus devoted to the humani-
ties, into a technological master of 
computers. For the first time in a 
century, Yale had to rework its role in 
maintaining the creative elite: the 
failure of "the best and the brightest" 
and the failure of some of the new 
buildings at Yale can be seen as · 
parallel processes. 

The students and some of the 
faculty openly rebelled against the 
Yale image at this point. In the dead 
of night they erected Claes Olden-
burg's great Lipstick, a self-
proclaimed comment on our capitalist 
society, in Beinecke Plaza. Oldenburg 
had predicted that a placing of one of 
his works on the Yale Campus (he, 
too, studied here) would signal the 
coming of the revolution. Unfortu-
nately, this time the power of the 
image failed, although as a platform 
the lipstick became an integral part of 
the May Day riots. 

Only one building managed the 
intrusion of the sciences into the 
hearts and the curriculum of the Yale 
Man, precisely because it worked 
within the architectural language 
already set up by Yale. Philip 
· J ohnso.n, himself a vital link in 
various good old boy networks, en-
visioned the Kline Science Center as a 
bold tower, slightly but very confi-
dently off-axis, built from materials 
meant to blend with the rest of • he 
campus, enclosing a courtyard. But 
this courtyard is a sterile, wind-swept 
spaceport where all social focus is 
;nissing, perhaps because t~e whole 
complex of buildings was never 
completed. 

The Art and Architecture Building, 
designed by Paul Rudolph, was the 
other major building of the sixties, 
and the capstone of this architect's 
extensive involvement with New 
Haven and Yale, which included a 
deanship at the School and numerous 
civic and Yale buildings. Striking a 
tower's pose and creating only court-
yard spaces on the inside, it is an 
extremely compact statement and a 
part of the bastion motif: its walls are 
rough, its structure forbidding and 
domineering, its sheer play of forms 
an academic game with its own 
history (Frank Lloyd Wright, for 
one). These walls were formed, at 
grea.t expense, by attaching triangular 
pieces of metal inside the forms which 
mold the concrete and (here rumor 
starts), once the forms were taken off. 
having two hundred workmen pQund 
the not yet set concrete with jack-
hammers to achieve the proper degree 
of roughness. 

The passage of Rudolph and his 
aggressive view of Yale building in the



**Green grass edges the billow of my sister's dress**
**Author: J. C. Sanburn**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Green grass edges the billow of my sister's dress 
She is flagrantly on the ground, hours of sunlight 
On her face, a mind for daring and murmurous speech. 
Anxious to know a cloud's configuration, 
She will dance about now, pointing to the sky. 
I said, "No, Mary, your beauty is excessive. 
You will spin off like the petals on everyone's 
Favorite flower." She said, "Yes Yes Yes, 
Brother, for each there is love." 
She is the woman that I don't know. 
She is in chic silks in Asian cities 
At the moment. Pushpins hold her postcards. 
"Mary, do you see the broad slapdash cloud? 
It is a furious modern painting, tears of a tree." 
Had I been introduced I would have known her. 


**Black Bodies**
**Author: Martha Hollander**
**Page number(s): 11**

Black Bodies 
for Malcolm and Janet Thompson 
"And oh," says one child, "look at it! 
Spoon-moon." It is only soundless, 
Intimate, perfect as a roof 
Of closeness itself; whether a 
Window on the unbearable 
Brilliance of elsewhere, other skies 
Behind our own, or a tilted 
Face thrust in our midst, or even 
The blank centre of our lone eye, 
._. It is too large to hang. But then 
See -
its wavering bit of edge 
Brings the memory of a dead 
World pictured suddenly, for it 
Gives itself away with movement. 
The children run about the yard. 
As the light dims and thickens, each 
Tick of awareness in daylight 
Clouds, freezes, hesitates even; 
They become bolder and blinder 
In their running. Withdrawn into 
The glory of their own skins (thought 
Shells around the soft, weighty hull 
Which is robbed of light: a body), 
They escape in night. They stamp, shout 
And pound sightlessly at dumb ground, 
Halting only when something like 
A great telescope, there outdoors, 
continued from page 7 
the trail and reload my M-16 and 
keep on running. The foot hurts like 
hell, but keep on running. Fire a few 
rounds back but they can't see me and 
I'm going west. Their movement is 
north-south. They'll leave me now. 
I'm getting near Z7 and my foot is 
bleeding like crazy. I better find a 
place to crash until daylight. White 
man looks the same as a gook in the 
infrared and the new sniper line is up 
here. I smell lifers. A few yards ahead 
is a bush. Head for it. Just going for 
it ... CRACK-ck-ck-ck-ck. M-16 fire 
and I'm on my back. Silence. Blood. 
No pain yet. Flashes were straight 
ahead of me thirty yards. Sniper fire. 
My legs ain't movin' when I tell :~m 
to and I can hear the trees. Faintly. 
"Monkey 3 reports lone troop in 
Rll by Z7 zone. No other activity. 
No artillery needed. Over and out." 
The M-16 still by my side and my 
apea 7 days a week 
11 
lights going out. Scope the trees. 
Starting to feel the pain now. Never 
feel the pain until a minute after. Set 
the nozzle on medium spread. Scope 
it again and watch the two little 
Christmas fairies move. Radio me 
dead . . . Aim . . . then shoot me, you 
welcher . . . lifer . . . Pull the trigger 
and hundreds of rounds eat the 
tree ... listen. Leaves, twigs and shit 
hitting the ground, then the biggest 
shit around ... 
Forget it now ... a real nice sexy 
woman is coming down a long fur-
lined hallway. Come on baby, I'm 
ready like a bride on wedding night. 
Nice sexy soft woman. Come on baby 
and bring your sister for Malone ... 
come on you fine thing ... I empty 
my gun, aimed into darkness. 
184-8&8& 
Makes them remember, holds their moon. 
Then the children play warrior. 
In the midst of theatrical 
Death, when stones, grass, stars still hover 
In balance at her falling head, 
One little girl remembers the 
Image she saw; she sighs, wriggles 
With delight, and shocks the others, 
Who cry, "But you're dead!" for she 
Gives herself away with movement. 


OUR F00DJ--SH9P 
UTUI&L I DUIIIC FOODS 
338 lhalley lte. lew liVID, Ct. 
all flours and peanut butter fresh ground to order 
information on all aspects of diet and nutrition 
largest selection of herbs in New Haven 
Jl magazine and book section 
came iD aad sene yaunelf from a mltitlde af barrels 


new 
england 
house 
restaurant 
93 Whitney Avenue 624-3254 
Dining in 
a U nique Atmosphere 
Complete Lunch and Dinner Menu 
Entertainment Friday and Saturday Nights 
Lunches: Monday-Friday 
Dinners: Monday-Saturday 


**Yale Architecture: A Dialogue with the City**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 12**

continued from page. 9 
sixties was followed by the selection 
of Charles Moore, the king of 
creative, humane and zooty modem 
architecture, as Dean of the Archi-
tecture School. Yale became a focus 
of a movement of architectural design 
which has since swept America; the 
university's strong faculty and long 
history of architecture as a series of 
sensitive images constructing a care-
fully defined world placed it in a 
leading position. It is no coincidence 
that such men as Robert Venturi 
("Complexity and Contradiction in 
Modern Architecture"), Charles 
Moore, Louis Kahn and Vincent 
Scully were all connected with Yale. 
The most obvious product of this 
movement was Venturi's design for 
the new mathematics building and the 
competition which produced it. The 
design called for a re-use of some of 
the materials prevalent on Hillhouse 
Avenue and a graceful gesture to the 
mansions up the hill. It represented a 
complete surrender to the desires of 
the present and future users of the 
building and, as such, it was an 
unexciting structure symbolic of 
Yale's retrenchment. The money for 
the math building was to come from 
that left-over plan from the corporate 
image days, the dismally faltering 
Campaign for Yale. 
The most successful and most 
succinct modern statement of the Yale 
image which this new awareness 
produced is the British Art Center. 
When Paul Mellon gave the money 
and the collections for this center, he 
envisioned the building as a trans-
mitter of the values of humanist order 
that were to him the central feature of 
seventeenth century English culture. 
To Mellon, Yale is very clearly a 
continuation of this elitist, creative, 
humanistic and rationalistic society, 
and the design of the Center was to 
be, as Director Jules Prown put it, 
"suffused with these qualities." Archi-
tect Louis Kahn, a former faculty 
member, emphasized over and over 
again his view that our present-day 
society could only be saved by re-
imbuing its institutions with meaning, 
a process in which architecture was 
extremely important. 
The building he created focuses 
very heavily on courtyards and the 
importance of the interaction of 
human beings in a public space. It 
also creates a world that is completely 
understandable to the human mind 
and recalls the luxurious setting in 
which a Yale Man, along with his 
spiritual ancestors at Oxford and 
Cambridge (Mellon attended this last 
institution) would feel at home. The 
aggressive tower is gone from the 
traditional imagery, perhaps because 
of Yale's new humility. Instead, the 
tower is inside, in the form of the 
great concrete stairwell which is the 
actual and spiritual focus of the 
building. 
On the outside, the building's 
greyness is a combination of a grey 
flannel J. Press suit and a grey New 
Haven day, the reserved elitism of 
Yale and the realities of a North-
eastern big city. The Center is a large 
jewelbox, like Beinecke, protective of 
its valuable interior, but, like the 
Rogers colleges, it helps define the 
city in opposition to and in inter-
action with its process of self-
enclosure. As such it is perhaps the 
finest statement of modern architec-
ture at Yale, the complete model for 
the present-day Yale Man. 
Yale architecture continues to 
search for ways of expressing the 
university's role in a dialogue with the 
city. "We let the city in very early on 
in the design process," says Ed 
Dunne, Yale's Director of Facilities 
Planning. "We are very concerned . 
with the quality of New Haven life." 
"Yale has opened up considerably," 
agrees John McGuerty, head of New 
Haven's City Planning. "We are 
consulted pretty early on .... In 
general, I'd say that the buildings on 
the Yale campus are among the most 
successful urban structures of the 
country. They really define the street, 
the courtyards are magnificent .... 
Now Giurgola in the design for the 
Whitney Avenue Colleges was going 
to have these external courtyards. 
That's baloney, it just doesn't work." 
Yale's courtyards are obviously not 
meant for New Haven. 
There are some areas of tension. A 
large institution means a lot of cars, 
and McGuerty believes the parking 
lots that surround Yale destroy the 
city environment. "Hell," he says, 
"I've got to keep pushing." There also 
remains an undying hatred between 
such men as McGuerty and Scully, 
who tried to save City Hall from the 
zealous hands of city planners: two 
different value systems clashed, and 
probably will continue to clash, 
though the city seems to have grown 
more sensitive to the Scully-esque 
arguments for the preservation of 
urban identity, as Yale tries to 
respond to New Haven's outcries. 
Yale has committed itself to a 
policy of "filling in the gaps between 
the teeth," as Barnes puts it. No 
major new buildings are planned. The 
emphasis is now on the extensive re-
use of existing buildings. The fore-
most example of this is Herb 
Newman's and Barnes' design for the 
Old Campus renovations. "We tried to 
bring back the atmosphere of the 
original rooms," Newman says. His 
j __________ 
_ 
design -
six units around a very 
large communal living room -
is a 
miniature version of the courtyard. 
Just as noteworthy is the set of 
fashionable East Side images evoked 
by the new rooms: smooth white 
walls, highly polished wood floors and 
skylights looking out over the city. 
They seem a promise of what the 
modern Yale Freshperson has to look 
forward to after graduation -
a nice 
reward for fulfilling Yale's objectives. 
The rooms are also interesting in 
that they were designed in close 
cooperation with the students, faculty 
and administration. Everybody is now 
concerned about what building means 
at Yale, what its values and implica-
tions are. Dunne and Newman like to 
point out the degree in which the total 
Yale population is now involved in 
the design of Yale buildings. As 
Dunne says: "We do talk about what 
a Yale building means, what that 
involves in the design, with every-
body. We think that the talented 
architects who have built here have 
each come up with their own inter-
pretation, and that they have built, 
without exception, quite successful 
buildings." "Yes," Scully affirmed, 
"there is very definitely a way in 
which Yale architects have worked in 
a great tradition, within the frame-
work of what Yale as an instittttion 
means, worked with the image of the 
Yale Man." 
The students and faculty have 
resigned themselves to this elitist 
tradition, or have decided to work 
the new journal, May 2, 1978 
within it. The Lipstick has been 
quietly moved to a corner of Morse 
College, where it sits facing the 
Master's House and Saarinen's great 
tribute to the Yale Man, while almost 
no one remembers its revolutionary 
meaning. Yalies seem to accept their 
world of images, their fairyland, with 
varying degrees of pleasure and agita-
tion, once again molding themselves 
in the images the buildings provide 
for them. 
The contradictions of architecture 
at Yale continue nevertheless, for 
example at the new complex of 
buildings under construction for the 
School of Organization and Manage-
ment on Hillhouse and Trumbull 
Streets. For a branch of the university 
that expresses the pure power of the 
Yale image, Barnes designed a build-
ing that tries to hide itself completely 
behind the older, more humanistic 
order of the houses on Hillhouse, 
while asserting itself with a curious 
little pavilion reminiscent of a Pizza 
Hut. "One of Yale's problems right 
now," says Susan Ryan, an expert on 
Yale architecture who has taught a 
course here on the subject, "is that 
they realize that as an institution with 
a message their buildings have, in a 
sense, to be monuments. But the times 
we live in and their awareness of the 
problems of putting a new building in 
an old context leads them to deny 
that monumentality." Yale wants to 
state its meaning in its buildings, yet a 
continued to page 15


HELLO BOUTIQUE 
INTERNATIONAL 
Hel!o; a 
bout~que for men and women. We present an inter-
national sel~ct1on of clothing and gifts. Our friends abroad help 
us keep pnces dc;>wn. Now luxury is an affordable commodity. 
10% off on all 1tems made in Afghanistan with student or 
faculty I.D. 
82 
Mon.-Fri. 
Thurs. 
Sat. 
10:30--6 
10:30-8 
10:30-5 
Whitney 
Ave., 
MEN'S AND WOMEN'S SHIRTS 
COSSACK SHIRTS 
SUNDRESSES 
TUNICS 
10% 
VESTS 
BLOUSES 
OFF 
KIMONOS 
DRAWSTRING PANTS 
HOMESPUN SHOULDER BAGS 
New 
Haven 



**A Yale Baseball Trip**
**Author: Dick Pershan**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
the new journal, May 2, 1978 
continued from page 4 
to purchase one for myself. 

Wednesday, March 15. Another 
get-to-know-your-Sputternick day, all 
fifteen hours worth from Wilmington 
to Winter Park, Florida. Certain 
things become evident to me. Those 
hustlers up at the front of the bus 
don't play simply because they want 
to crack the starting line-up. They dO' 
it because they're all getting rich. At 
least that's what they say. Lowry, who 
wears Coach's jacket, is getting rich; 
Big Hags, who sleeps with Coach's 
pillow, is getting rich. Certainly M.D., 
who eats Coach's Big Mac, is getting 
rich. We all wonder who's not telling 
~ the truth. 

The ethos of the day is the southern 
smuggle. Every hour or so, Walter 
slides Sputternick off the road and 
slips her through the trees, down 
some dirt road. Each of the dirt roads 
looks identical to me; all have a 
strange looking tree, kind of like a 
hybrid cigar, jutting up every 
hundredth marking. Even stranger, 
there's a sign fixed to each -
"Welcome, Yale Baseball" -
above a 
mysterious logo: a Y pierced by what 
'looks like a baseball but is actually a 
cigar. Eventually, each one of these 
roads leads to a one-room shack, 
where we stop while Walter, the pilot, 
hops down from his cockpit and 
snaps for a few assistants to follow 
him. Soon some of the guys come 
back bearing armfuls of cigars. 

Mysteriously, O.B. opens up the 
luggage berth in Sputternick's mid-
belly and removes the bat bag. 
Squatting on the grass, the guys 
. ._. proceed to remove the plastic caps 
from the ends of all of the bats. I 
didn't even know they came off. 
Inside, they're entirely hollow. Walter 
instfucts his men to stuff the bats with 
cigars. They do so, re-cap the bats, 
return them to the case, and return 
the case to the luggage berth. Walter 
makes a final trip to the shack to 
settle financial matters and comes 
back to the bus, puffing blissfully on 
a Louisville Slugger. 

Thursday, March 16. Rollins 
College. Wind wafted palm trees, a 
campus constructed around a swim-
ming pool and dedicated to one 
purpose, the sun. Courses in water 
polo, water skiing, and pool strutting. 
We -
the men and Karen of Yale 
baseball -
make ourselves conspicu-
ous. We are the only people camped 
about the pool before 7:00 in the 
morning. We are also, with the 
exception of Third World, the only 
people who sport our native coloring: 
the Yale pale. By game time this 
condition is rectified, but with severe 
consequences. No one can budge a 
limb. We try to-cancel the game, but 
are denied our request. Instead we 
play under protest and sunscreen. 

The solaces of losing a game at 
Rollins College are many and sooth-
ing. Most involve fluids of some sort. 
At 9:00 Cricket, Moon Beamy, and I 
begin the evening's revels with a 
• skinny dip in the officially closed 
Rollins College swim pool. By 
4:00P.M. we are all fast asleep. 

Friday, March 17. Our last day at 
Rollins, so we strive to maximize ~he 
ray absorption and leave town with a 
good bronze. In a morning swim, 
underwater in the deep end, I notice 
a poster enclosed in glass, planted on 
the bottom of the pool. Unbelievably, 
it turns out to be an advertisement for 
a singing concert the next evening. 
The photo depicts a cadre of twenty, 
typically rude-looking long hairs, clad 
in bikinis and posed in V formation in 
front of Sterling Library. Deja vu? 
Sun stroke? Drowning and an after-
life? Not with that crowd. The twenty 
bikini-bottom bad boys turn out to be 
for real, none other than the Society 
of Orpheus and Bacchus, more 
generally known as the SOB's. Among 
the motley contingent there snickers 
my roommate. Immediately I re-
surface and begin to plot. The SOB's 
are to sing tomorrow, but Yale 
baseball is to leave tonight. I won't 
have a chance to dispose of my 
roommate myself, but I will have 
immunity once I arrange for someone 
else to dispose of him for me. I get 
hold of pen and paper and compose a 
one-line letter, "David, kiss me, you 
ghoul, now." Next I seal the letter in 
an envelope and scout about for 
suitable game. She must be blonde 
and the sheer weight of her mammary 
mass must make not only me, but my 
roommate, David, giddy and grateful. 
I find such a person, who identifies 
herself as Dolly. I say "Hello Dolly," 
and dissolve into my Carol Channing 
imitation. Dolly sits, resplendently 
and abundantly. She is nonplussed. 
How could she be more plussed? 
Finally, after I settle down, she 
consents to deliver the note. My only 
regret is that I cannot learn the results 
until I get back to school. Not to 
disappoint the reader, however, we 
shall leap forward in time and get the 
inside story a week in advance. Dolly, 
dolt that she is, lost the letter, went 
up to David in the middle of the show 
anyway, and was immediately 
snatched up by David, who was 
giddy, grateful, and quite ga'llant. 

Saturday, March 18. A short flash 
of the Sputternick brings us to Lake-
land, Florida, an eight lane strip of 
highway lined with palaces of plastic 
nre-cooking. Hamburger Row. 
Hardy's, Burger King, White Tower, 
Gino's, McDonald's, the Calhoun 
Cabaret. The American zip dream run 
amok. Paroxysms of hamburger 
phobia, until I remember -
today is 
an off day. 

The guys splinter in several direc-
tions, some the way of Disney, others 
the way of Tampa Bay, and still 
others the way of the motel swimming 
pool. I select this last route and sit 
chaise-lounged by the kiddy pool. 
I wiggle my toes in the shallow end. 
I think about Eli. 

I remember I'm supposed to pre-
pare something for our annual rookie 
talent show. Since I don't know how 
to yodel and find it repugnant to 
dress up in drag {unlike Cricket, 
Wheels and Baby Hags, who perfume 
and perform admirably as the "Point-
less Sisters"), I have to resort to my 
only talent, plagiarizing second-rate 
poetry. The result of my effort, 
"Kenzie at the Fungo," the long-
awaited sequel to "Casey at the Bat," 
is printed, in part, below: 

There were saddened hearts in 
Mud ville. 
For a week or even more 
There were muttered oaths and curses, 
Every fan in town was sore. 
"Just think," said Hags, "How good it 
looked with Kenzie at the bat 
And then to think he'd go and pull a 
bush league move like that." 
(Kenzie had whipped with the bases 
full.) 
The Elis are now in the last half of the 
ninth, down 3-2 to Harvard. Their 
numero-uno slugger, the mighty 
Kenzie, currently, as noted above, out 
of favor with the fans, is about to 
come to bat, with the tying run 
already on first. 

A dismal groan in chorus came 
A scowl lined Walter's face 
As Kenzie walked up, fungo in hand 
And slowly took his place. 
But fame is fleeting as the wind 
And glory fades away; 
There were no wild or wooly cheers, 
No glad acclaim that day. 

At this point, Kenzie works the Harvard 
pitcher to a 3-2 count, then ·takes a 
wicked rip at a fastball. The poem 
concludes: 

Oh, somewhere in this favored land 
Crimson clouds may hide the suo 
And Mo's harmonica sadly play 
And Beamy have no fun. 
And somewhere over rookies' lives 
There may hang a heavy pall, 
But Eli hearts are happy now, 
Cause Kenzie jacked the ball. 

Unfortunately, the delivery of this 
chef-d'oeuvre was frustrated when, 
later that night, the rookies decided to 
restrict their show to a one act 
dousing of Uncle Wiggly in the motel 
pool. 

Sunday, March 19. All I remember 
is some girl knocking on the door to 
my motel room. I let her in. 

Monday, March 20. Her name is 
Jasmine. The rest of the trip is lost in 
a swirl of color and sun-tanned limbs. 
Now, nearly a month later, I am in 
love, and needless to say. no longer 
playing Eli baseball. 

Jacked to the fence in center field 
In rapid whirling flight 
The sun grew dim, both spheres were 
trashed 
And then. both lost to sight. 
Five thousand Elis mid-terms forgot 
Five thousand threw a fit 
But no one ever. found the ball 
That mighty Kenzie hit. 

Dick Pershan has a suntan and a BA 
under 300.


**Yale Athletics and Admissions**
**Author: Anonymous**
**Page number(s): 14**

continued from page 5 
Even good old Nathan Sterster 
Brewling Osborne doesn't have any 
input into the admissions process. 
Nathan can harass Carm all he wants, 
but he can't touch Worth David. 
There is an aura of something sacred 
in the admissions office, and when 
Worth says, "representative class," it 
sounds tragically sincere. I know five 
or six Bonzos who were recruited 
here, none of whom were accepted, 
and all of whom received "paid 
visits." Penn's football uprising is 
partially due to three of these Bonzos. 
Recruiting and success are self-
perpetuating. Carro can look better 
than Columbia's or Princeton's coach 
simply because of his record. A good 
year on the field means a good year 
recruiting, which means another good 
year on the field. Princeton's and 
Cornell's women's teams succeed on 
the same prin<(ipal. Yale, by post-
World 'War II standards, still has 
football facilities which would do 
justice to any nationally ranked 
university, while the basketball facili-
ties are not worthy of a serious high 
school program. And the women's 
facilities seem to be basic men'!! 
facilities after a poorly executed sex-
change operation. How can the 
women's coach leave her recruits 
drooling the way Carm left Bonzo? 
She can't, but women's sports are 
gaining a closer look from alums. 
Athletic recruiting can only be seen 
as a necessary evil or good. Yale's 
tradition, image and financial wen-
being depend on a "representative" 
student body which is superior to the 
"representative" student bodies of 
other colleges and universities, fist-
shaking idealists included. Paul 
Newman didn't become a star because 
he had a lisp and knew Hegel inside-
out. 

For the time being, Carm can rest 
easy while the other coaches kiss 
alums and give away cigars to get the 
won-lost percentages in the black. 
And the Bonzos and Ringos, as well 
as the Bonzettes and Ringorinas, will 
be accepted and rejected like everyone 
else, though the Bonzos may have an 
advantage. Even if John Pagliaro 
stares aimlessly a lot, he added some-
thing to this place. So, as a close 
associate of mine once told me, "Shut 
up, Snee." Remember, without creeps 
like me you'd have to bitch at 
inanimate objects.


**Question I**
**Author: Marilyn Achiron**

Question I 
When a bolt 
strikes 
and cuts with its 
volts· 
coring 
the carcass 
left to rot 
and shrivel in its smallness, 
the charged air 
steals a spirit before it dissipates and settles, 
suffocate cry, 
under the rumble. 
--Marilyn Achiron


THE CHART HOUSE 
ON THE WATER 
Steak, Seafood, Cocktails 
100 S. Water St. 
New Haven 
787-3466


**Undergraduate Art at Yale**
**Author: Julie Schmartzmann**
**Page number(s): 15**

continued from page 2 
was scheduled for undergraduate 
shows this year because no time was 
left on the schedule. It does not feel 
good to be forgotten. Students who 
feel the need to exhibit their work 
have taken the initiative themselves. 
Some students are attempting to 
secure a new permanent undergrad-
uate ~;a llery space, while others have 
worked to organize shows inde-
pendently of the art school, for 
example, the recent show of under-
graduate women's art at the Women's 
Caucus in Hendrie Hall. There have 
been three open houses organized by 
students. The students' unified efforts 
call attention to the lack of effort the 
administration puts into integrating 
the undergraduates into art school 
and Yale activities. 

This lack of interest implies a lack 
of respect for undergraduates. One of 
my art teachers calls us "kids." I am 
not a fanatic over vocabulary, but I 
do not like the tone of "kids," which 
implies a popsicle-box producing arts 
and crafts shop instead of a studio. I 
call attention to this because the belief 
that "undergraduates are not serious" 
is manifested in a variety of ways. The 
painting studios are "not conducive to 
serious painting," as one student put 
it. Two studios are in the basement of 
the building with no windows, poor 
ventilation, overcrowding (as many 
people know, art classes are often 
overcrowded, and it is almost impos-
sible for a non-art major to get into 
most of them) and lights which seem 
better suited to growing Spider plants 
than painting. The advanced studio 
on Chapel Street is only slightly 
better. Students speak positively of 
the Hammond Hall sculpture space 
and the photography facilities, but 
again all students complain of the 
lack of show space. 

Uther comments on the art depart-
ment: 
"Studious, pressured, academic, sort 
of stifled, not overly creative in 
outlook ... in general I think there is 
too much verbal self-justification, 
putting one's work in historical con-
text." 
"I think we're encouraged to paint 
pretty 'acceptable' pictures and not to 
eXplore the world through paint." 
"The more art courses I take, the 
more I enjoy them and get something 
out of them, regardless of teaching 
quality ... " 

Almost all art students would agree 
that the graduate students are a very 
positive part of the art school. I have 
had some truly excellent and con-
cerned T.A.'s. The art school's guests 
are first-class, and the lectures and 
critiques given by visitors and faculty 
are nearly always worth attending. 

I expect that my own need to make 
and build things out of what I see in 
the world will be with me long after I 
leave Yale. If it is, if I am truly filled 
with ideas of art (that may mean 
colors, sounds, concepts), I will have 
no qualms about calling myself an 
artists. I am not sure I will ever know 
whether I am "good" or not, and it is 
not a major question for me now. As 
one student said, "The people I 
respect, respect me and my work and 
in the long run that's all that 
matters." 
-
Julie Sclm·art=man


**Mona Hanna**
**Author: Robert R. Roman**

Mona Hanna 
The Yale University Art Galkry 
recently announced the auction and 
sale of a veritable masterpiece, 
virtually unknown in art circles, 
entitled "Hanna from Heaven." (Fig. 
l) She has been purchased by the 
University of Chicago for six million 
dollars. Little art-historical criticism 
has been published about the work, 
and the artist is unknown, although, 
judging from stylistic and compo-
sitional characteristics, the photog-
rapher plays off a well-developed 
theme: "Hanna" is a direct descendant 
of Leonardo da Vinci's "La Joconde" 
("Mona Lisa"), dating 1503-1505 (Fig. 
2). 

Leonardo's masterpiece is best 
known for the enigmatic expression 
on Mona Lisa's face. She sits com-
fortably, her gaze directed toward the 
onlooker, breaking through the two-
dimensional painted surface of the 
canvas to establish a mysterious 
rapport with the viewer. In this 
respect, "Hanna from Heaven" (or, 
the "Mona Hanna," as it is more 
commonly known) differs from its 
predecessor: the smile has widened, 
yielding a perplexed look; her eyes 
peer heavenward, requesting divine 
intervention (but not non-binding 
arbitration). 

Mona Hanna feels threatened by 
some unknown force and reacts by 
crossing her arms protectively. Note 
the more warm, welcoming hands of 
the earlier Mona Lisa: the caressing 
hands convey a maternal gentleness 
which Mona Hanna lacks, her hands 
hidden securely away; one might 
never shake hands with this tight-
fisted woman. In contrast to the 
motherly Mona Lisa, Mona Hanna is 
no Mother Yale. 

That "Hanna from Heaven" is 
closely related to "La Joconde" is 
unquestionable, but other copies and 
alterations of the Mona Lisa have 
been created over the years. The Dada 
movement of the post-World War I 
era ,_qoasts the Marcel Duchamp 
"ready-made assisted version" of the 
Leonardo masterpiece. Duchamp 
added mustache and beard to the 
Mona Lisa, entitling the work 
"LHOOQ," a crude French play on 
words. "Hanna from Heaven" is also 
subject to violation by a modem 
artist -
with mustache and beard, 
Mona Hanna would be labeled 
"LHOOQ2- ("Elle a chaud aux 
coudes"), translated loosely as "She's 
got bot elbows." Perhaps the un-
known photographer foresaw this 
future addition and seated his subject 
with her arms in this conspicuous 
pose. 

"La Joconde" was the inspiration 
behind "Hanna from Heaven," yet the 
great Leonardo masterpiece itself 
evolved from an even earlier work, 
the Archaic Greek Auxerre kore, c. 
650B.C. (Fig. 3). The female figure 
displays a similar, albeit Archaic, grin, 
despite severe damage to a major 
portion of the face. The statue itself 
expresses a monumental stoicism 
which is repeated by Leonardo, but 
somehow lacking in "Hanna from 
Heaven." Most important, however, is 
the statue's arm; it crosses obliquely 
in front of the figure, a motif which 
Leonardo continued and developed, 
including both arms in a tnJly gentle 
configuration. In the modern compo-
sition, Mona Hanna crosses her arms 
more st. r'ly, in reaction to the 
,. 
threatening forces of American 
society. Note how the centuries 
separating the Mona Hanna from the 
kore have de-emphasized the idealized 
schema of the maiden, yielding a 
more naturalistic depiction of 
twentieth-century woman. 

The evolution from kore to Mona 
Lisa to Mona Hanna is remarkable, 
transcending the differing media; 
"Hanna from Heaven" constitutes the 
culmination of this stylistic trend. 
Thucydides said that history repeats 
itself; this is true for the history of 
fine arts as well. A group of statues 
now in the University of Chicago 
Museum, dating as early as 2700B.C., 
resemble Hanna in the motif of 
crossed arms (Fig. 4). Or could this be 
an ancient representation of a Yale 
Corporation meeting? 

In purchasing Mona Hanna, the 
University of Chicago adds a truly 
exceptional objet d'art to its col-
lection. However, Chicago has ob-
viously recognized the importance of 
Mona Hanna; it is attempting to 
acquire a work from each phase .in the 
evolution of strategic arm location. 
Robert R. Roman


**Yale Architecture and its Contradictions**

continued from page 1 2 
part of that very meaning is the fact 
that, in our democracy, the powerful 
elite must hide its power utterly in the 
fabric of society. Though Yale's 
buildings must be an aggressive 
bastion, they may not be too visible 
to the village below. 

One person who feels he can work 
out all of these difficulties is the 
university's consulting architect, Herb 
Newman. To him, Yale is a world 
unto itself, scaled for the pedestrian 
Yale Person, a treasury of great 
architecture and of ideals, one that he 
will work very hard to preserve. 
"Yale," he told me, "and Yale 
architecture have a knitting kind of 
quality, they form a network of ideas. 
That's what the Old Boy Network is 
all about: it's about human relations, 
putting the person in the center, and 
it's about the pursuit of excellence. 
The network has gone beyond being 
WASP; it includes people like 
Giamatti, and me, a Jew from the 
neighborhood here .... It's about the 
preservation of a humanistic tradition 
of values, a kind of elitist making you 
aware of the fundamental value of 
architecture, the fundamental issues at 
the heart of education. The architec-
ture doesn't deal so much with 
specific people like Griswold or 
Brewster; the architecture here is self-
perpetuating, we are only trustees." 

Since Yale has been successful in 
creating such a cogent, ever-changing 
model for the Yale Man, the fmal 
question is what we as trustees want 
to do with that model, and bow we 
are to deal with the inner contradic-
tions which not only give it elegance 
but might, in the end, destroy it. 



**Title: COPIES PLUS**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 1nc. 
COPIES PLUS* 
865-3115 
50 WHITNEY AVE • NEW HAVEN, CT. 0651Q 
KODAK & IBM 
copl•1 
"Your Future Is In Our Hands" 
..• Resumes, Theses, Dissertations. 
Complete Student Services 
IBM Typing - "While You Wait" 
Editing 
Proofreading 
Binding 
Offset Printing* 
*Illustrations And Layout 
59 Broadway 
(above Audio Den) 
562-2508 
* low record prices 
special ordering; 
loca I concert ticket outlet 
* Rhvme's is a non-stock corporation completely 
controlled by its employees 

