Publication date: October 2015/November 2015
Volume: 48
Issue number: 3

**MASTHEAD**
- editors-in-chief: maya averbuch, caroline sydney
- managing editor: isabelle taft
- senior editors: hayley byrnes, kendrick mcdonald, lara sokoloff
- associate editors: ruby bilger, joyce guo, sophie haigney, libbie katsev, elena saavedra buckley
- copy editors: douglas plume, spencer bokat-lindell
- design editors: chris paolini, ivy sanders schneider, edward wang
- photo editor: jennifer lu
- web designer: mariah xu
- web developer: philippe chlenski
- members and directors: Emily Bazelon, Peter B. Cooper, Jonathan Dach, Kathrin Lassila, Eric Rutkow, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, Fred Strebeigh
- advisors: Richard Bradley, Susan Braudy, Jay Carney, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff,  Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Jennifer Pitts, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, David Slifka, John Swansburg, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- friends: Michael Addison, Austin Family Fund, Steve Ballou, J. Neela Banerjee, Margaret Bauer, Anson M. Beard, Jr., Blaire Bennett, Richard Bradley, Martha Brant, Susan Braudy, Daniel Brook, Hilary Callahan, Jay Carney, Daphne Chu, Josh Civin, Jonathan  M. Clark, Constance Clement,  Andy Court, Masi Denison, Albert J. Fox, Mrs. Howard Fox, David Freeman, Geoffrey Fried, Sherwin Goldman, David Greenberg, Stephen Hellman, Laura Heymann, Gerald Hwang, Walter Jacob, Jane Kamensky, Tina Kelley, Roger Kirkwood, Jonathan Lear, Lewis E. Lehrman, Jim Lowe, E. Nobles Lowe, Daniel Murphy, Martha E. Neil, Peter Neil, Howard H. Newman, Sean O’Brien, Laura Pappano, Julie Peters, Lewis and Joan Platt, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, Fairfax C. Randal, Robert Randolph, Stuart Rohrer Arleen and Arthur Sager, Richard Shields, W. Hampton Sides, Lisa Silverman, Scott Simpson, Adina Proposco and David Sulsman, Thomas Strong, Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Wilson, Daniel Yergin and Angela Stent Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**

feature
Black at Yale - Dave Harris, Taylor Eldridge, Bria Godley
The Signal’s Back In Town - Elena Saavedra Buckley

standards
points of departure - Francis Lindemann, Dimitri Diagne, Griffin Brown
poetry - Gideon Broshy
snapshots - Edward Columbia, Libbie Katsev
profile - Lora Kelley
endnote - Madeline Kaplan


**Title: Black at Yale**
**Author: Dave Harris, Taylor Eldridge, Bria Godley**
**Page number(s): 4**

Why university students are protesting racism


**Title: The Signal’s Back In Town**
**Author: Elena Saavedra Buckley**
**Page number(s): 30**

A new radio station wants to localize New Haven’s airwaves


**Title: points of departure**
**Author: Francis Lindemann, Dimitri Diagne, Griffin Brown**
**Page number(s): 12**

Speed Reader | Francis Lindemann

Unmooring the Classroom | Dimitri Diagne

The Uncertainty Never Ends | Griffin Brown


**Title: poetry**
**Author: Gideon Broshy**
**Page number(s): 18**



**Title: snapshots**
**Author: Edward Columbia, Libbie Katsev**
**Page number(s): 19**

Indaba on Edgewood
A bookstore builds a canon for the neighborhood	
Edward Columbia

It’s Easier Not to Think About It 
Sewage contamination in New Haven’s West River	
Libbie Katsev


**Title: profile**
**Author: Lora Kelley**
**Page number(s): 28**

Who Protects Picasso?
Through the eyes of a guard at the Yale University Art Gallery


**Title: endnote**
**Author: Madeline Kaplan**
**Page number(s): 38**



**Title: null**
**Author: null**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 4
THE  NEW  JOURNAL


**Page number(s): 5**

 5
NOVEMBER 2015


**Page number(s): 6**

 6



**Title: THE  NEW  JOURNAL**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 8**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
THE  NEW  JOURNAL



**Title: SPEED READER**
**Author: Frances Lindemann**
**Page number(s): 12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
A library on wheels combats illiteracy
P O I N T S  O F  D E PA R T U R E
illustration by Ivy Sanders Schneider

The bright orange paint on the New Haven bookmo­
bile makes it look like a freewheeling bus of the nine­
teen-sixties. But if you walk inside, you will find that 
the carpeted interior resembles a preschool classroom. 
Wooden shelves jut out of three sides of the bus, filled 
with books of all shapes and sizes. Some are books for 
young children, like Angelina’s Big City Ballet and 
A Mare for Young Wolf; others are elementary school 
favorites, like The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe. 


Every year, the bookmobile visits over one hundred sites 
around New Haven, and almost every month it makes a 
two-hour stop at the Blake Street Early Learning Center 
in Westville. 


Children from low-income families have limited access 
to books. The bookmobile is trying to tackle this problem 
in a decidedly non-digital way, by bringing the physical 
book back. In New Haven, where thirty-five percent of 
kids live in poverty, the stakes are high: research shows 
that kids from underprivileged households who cannot 
read proficiently by third grade are six times likelier to 
drop out of high school than their peers. The New Haven 
Free Public Library has operated the bookmobile for 
fourteen years under the assumption that wheels could 
be part of the solution. Last year, the original bus was 
retired due to maintenance issues, and the new bus got 
a head-turning orange paint job. The lettering on one 
side now reads, “expanding minds, unleashing potential”
 and “expandiendo mentes, desatando potencial.”
Vehicles like the bookmobile have a long history in the 
United States, dating back to 1905, when a librarian in 
rural Maryland began carting books around in a wagon 
to reach people who lived far from the library. At their 
peak in the mid-twentieth century, roughly two thousand 
bookmobiles trundled down American streets; as of 2011, 
there were just under seven hundred library bookmobiles 
left. Increasingly a relic of a bygone age, New Haven’s 
bookmobile is playing a tiny part in America’s long battle 
for educational equality. 


In the morning, the first class of ten children filed onto 
the bookmobile from the Blake Street center, with two 
teachers in tow. They chattered noisily as their teachers 
ushered them onto the small benches lining the floor. 
“Who’s been to the library before?” asks Natasha Mick­
elson, who runs the bus’s programs for young children. 
She sits upright in a chair near the front of the bus, smil­
ing at the seated children. The teachers are tasked with



**Title: Unmooring the Classroom**
**Author: Dimitri Diagne**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
enoc escobar watched cormorants glide inches above 
the waves of the Long Island Sound. Alex Mass noticed 
the way sandy bluffs slide towards the sea, and Alyssa Hall 
contemplated the impending flooding of downtown Man­
hattan by the water through which they sailed.

“By the end of the century, it’s going to go up two feet,” 
she warned.


As the three students told me about their educational 
voyage through the Long Island Sound, they painted a 
picture of a complex, important, and unexpectedly beau­
tiful body of water in unsettling flux.  

All three were serving as sailors aboard the schooner 
Brilliant, and all three are seniors at New Haven’s Sound 
School, a vocational charter high school that focuses on 
aquaculture and marine trades, where students learn 
about the sea in the classroom and on the water. This 
year’s inaugural Brilliant Marine Ecology Program offered 
seven students at the Sound School a special opportunity 
to do both, as they conducted research projects on ecolog­
ical topics related to the Long Island Sound. Enoc investi­
gated seabird adaptations, while the other two focused on 
closely related current environmental issues. Alyssa stud­
ied sea level change, and Alex researched coastal erosion 
in New England, which is becoming more severe as the 
waters rise.


They saw their topics of inquiry firsthand during the 
sea component of the program, which culminated in a 
three-day, forty-mile, round-trip odyssey through the 
Long Island Sound. From Mystic, Connecticut, to Fish­
er’s Island, through the Watch Hill Passage, a.k.a. “seasick 
alley”, to Block Island, and back again, the students got 
the chance to experience the Sound firsthand.


The blending of classroom and hands-on learning in 
the Brilliant Program captures the essence of the Sound 
School, where, as Steve Joseph, one of the teachers who 
went on the trip, told me, “the Long Island Sound is our 
biggest classroom.”


The Sound School has had direct access to this natu­
ral classroom since 1995, when it moved to its waterfront 
location in New Haven’s City Point neighborhood. Since 
its founding in 1981, it has prepared kids to be stewards of 
the Long Island Sound, a mission it is joined in by other 
vocational high schools, like Marine Science Magnet 
High School in Groton, and the Aquaculture Science & 
Technology Education Center in Bridgeport. Students at 
all three institutions are exploring the challenges of the 
changing waters.

“We just went through a really tremendous warm 
spell,” said Tim Visel, coordinator of the school’s voca­
tional program. “In 1998, the lobsters died. In 1999, our 
blue crabs exploded.”


The past few years have been colder, and blue crabs, 
which prefer warm water, are giving way to lobsters again. 
Similar cycles have been occurring for as long as records 
exist, said Visel, who does extensive historical research 
on ecological patterns in the Sound. But, as the climate 
changes, cold spells are getting farther apart. As lobsters 
now run the risk of dying off in Connecticut, the Sound 
School’s aquaculture program started a lobster hatchery a 
few years ago. 

“We’re trying to educate people on farming the sea,” he 
told me of his work with students on the aquaculture track, 
as we toured the lab where much of this education occurs. 
“We’ve got one of the largest shellfish labs in the coun­
try here,” he added. The room, with its rows of bubbling 
tanks and networks of pipes, valves and filters, looked wor­
thy of Monterey Bay Aquarium or Scripps Institution of 
Oceanography. But, like the wooden-boat workshops and 
outboard engine repair rooms of the marine technology 
program, it is run primarily by high school students. In 
their applications to the school, teenagers must demon­
strate a strong interest in the marine. Besides being the 
overall focus of the vocational programs, the ocean seeps 
its way into every part of the school’s curriculum.

“Even in our core classes, we’re doing more ocean-re­
lated stuff,” said Alex. “Like in English, we’re reading sea 
poems, instead of just normal poems. Teachers really try 
to relate the ocean to what we do.”

“But we still love our core classes—we don’t just go on 
boats all day,” added Alyssa, who, like Alex and Enoc, is 
on the sailing team. Tim Visel compared the sailing team, 
along with the top-notch open-water rowing team, to “our 
school’s version of football.”

“We’re ones to be reckoned with,” said Gabriel Neil 
Geist, an assistant coach for the rowing team. A short, 
soft-spoken, man who looked like he had stepped out 
of an L. L. Bean catalog, Geist is a 1988 graduate of the 
Sound School, whose return to his alma mater makes 
him feel, he said, “like the luckiest man alive.” 

On a warm October afternoon, we stood on a grassy 
lawn between the school and the harbor, watching five- 
and seven-person boats that would look appropriate chas­
ing whales in eighteenth-century etchings. Each crew of 
students sped away from the shore. 

“Look, they just crashed,” Geist said, more amused 
than worried, as one group, pushed off course by a brisk 
sea breeze, tapped the side of a moored boat. Flustered 
and disorganized, the rowers struggled to manoeuver back 
into open water.


They passed over small beds of oysters, started and 
maintained by students and teachers as replacements for 
ones that had died off over the past century. City Point, 
once a successful oystering community, had been on the 
decline since the nineteen-fifties, when the construction 
of Interstate 95 cut it off from in rest of New Haven. Even 
earlier, its oyster beds were plagued by pollution from a 
now-closed sewage treatment plant. When Geist was a 
student at the Sound School, the most prominent feature 
on the coastline was a shipyard where old boats were sent 
to be broken up for scrap.

“It really looked like an old, New England run-down 
seaside town,” Geist said. 

Now, where derelict boats once lined the coast, build­
ings that host the Sound School marine facilities share 
the waterfront. The Pequonnock Yacht Club moved in 
next door from Bridgeport in 2009. The rowboats set off 
from a marsh-lined shore, dotted with recently refur­
bished houses.


Seaside houses crumble and are rebuilt again. Cli­
mate changes and animal populations die. Even the 
brief return voyage of the Brilliant was plagued by the 
remnants of Hurricane Joaquin, which lashed waves 
into eight-foot swells and pelted the sailors’ backs with 
rain. But, as Enoc said, remembering the trials of the 
storm fondly, it’s all “part of bearing with nature.” The 
sea can indeed be a fickle being, and each new class at 
the Sound School enters a body of water surrounded by 
one of the most urbanized regions in America—and their 
studies there teach them that it’s also one of the most 
precarious ones. 

— Dimitri Diagne is a sophomore
in Berkeley College


**Title:  On the Bookmobile**
**Author: Frances Lindemann**
**Page number(s): 13**

NOVEMBER 2015
 13
keeping the children quiet and attentive while Mickel­
son’s voice remains calm and level, commanding the 
attention and even awe of the kids. 

Every child on the bus raised his or her hand in 
response to the question.

“What do you do at the library?” Mickelson’s voice 
contained an energy that permeated the room. 
“Read books!” 
“Do you like to read stories?” 
A little boy named Caden nearly jumped out of his 
seat: “Yes, we do!” 
Mickelson opened up a picture book that had been sit­
ting on her lap, holding it so the children could see the 
pictures inside. She must have read the book a hundred 
times before, but she acted as if she were reading it for the 
first time, like the children. The book, called Wild About 
Books, tells the story of a bookmobile for animals—an 
approach that is heavy-handed in its self-promotion, but 
is also effective in capturing the attention of the kids, who 
connect the story to the bus they’re sitting on. “By reading 
aloud from the good Dr. Seuss, she quickly attracted a 
mink and a moose. A wombat, an onyx, a lemur, a lynx, 
eight elephant calves and a family of skunks,” she read. 
The children’s teachers occasionally had to redirect their 
attention to the story, because they were distracted by all 
the books waiting behind them, trying to decipher the 
titles or pull them out of the shelves to inspect the pic­
tures inside. Sometimes, the kids got carried away in their 
excitement as they responded to one of Mickelson’s sup­
plementary questions (“how tall is an elephant?”), chat­
tering on over the exact height of an elephant. 
When story time ended, the session finished with a cho­
rus of “Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star.” Afterward, the chil­
dren shuffled to the door. Someone asked eagerly, “Are 
we going to the playground?” As the last girl reached the 
stairs, she turned to face Mickelson and waved. “Thank 
you!” she called.

Throughout the fall and spring, the bookmobile 
rolls down the streets of New Haven, from East Rock to 
Newhallville, Westville to Fair Haven. Between October 
2014 and October 2015, the bookmobile had 4,350 pro­
gram attendees, 2,774 books checked out, 112 site visits, 
and 180 new library cards issued at schools all across 
New Haven, but especially at early learning centers like 
Blake Street. According to Xia Feng, who administers the 
New Haven Library’s Young Minds Program, most early 
learning centers lack the library spaces for older kids that 
exist in public schools, and there are only five commu­
nity libraries across the city. The bookmobile tries to 
fill that gap.

Focusing on early learning centers, however, con­
strains the bookmobile’s reach: just under half of New 
Haven’s 8,500 children under the age of four are enrolled 
in early learning programs. The bookmobile also visits 
summer camps, block parties, and the annual tree light­
ing on the New Haven Green, but this doesn’t leave the 
time or resources for general neighborhood visits, which 
might allow people to stumble serendipitously upon the 
bookmobile. According to Catherine DeNigris, the New 
Haven Free Public Library’s deputy director, other chal­
lenges include the weather, which keeps the bookmobile 
from going out during January and February. “Ideally we 
would want the bookmobile on the road more,” she said. 

When almost any form of media can be streamed at 
the push of a button, the sight of children elbowing one 
another for books is inherently nostalgic. But Mickelson 
believes that libraries are still relevant, especially in areas 
where young children don’t have easy access to books at 
home. Story time, DeNegris said, is “a tradition that has 
been around forever but is still totally viable,” since it cre­
ates a gathering place and social experience for children. 
Though the bookmobile may not have the same reach or 
accessibility as broader digital initiatives, it has something 
those projects don’t: a physical space and a tactile reading 
experience that together make a lasting emotional impact 
on kids.

At the end of the second session at Blake Street, 
the children were asked to pretend they were holding 
books of their own. “What do you see in your book?” 
Mickelson asked. 
“I see mushrooms!” “I see geese!” Almost every child 
stared into their hands as if they were really holding a 
book. I caught the eye of one little girl; she smiled, briefly, 
then turned back to the story she was developing in 
her palms. 
— Frances Lindemann is a freshman
in Davenport College
WHEN ALMOST ANY FORM 
OF MEDIA CAN BE STREAMED 
AT THE PUSH OF A BUTTON, 
THE SIGHT OF CHILDREN 
ELBOWING ONE ANOTHER 
FOR BOOKS IS INHERENTLY 
NOSTALGIC.



**Title: THE UNCERTAINTY NEVER ENDS**
**Author: Griffin Brown**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The strangest performance space in New Haven
a typical trip to never ending books at 810 State 
Street delivers two things: disappointment and a ratty 
paperback. The lights will probably be off inside the store. 
In lieu of posting hours, owner Roger Uihlein maintains a 
shelf of free books outside the entrance. If, however, you 
pick an atypical day, the door will swing open to a fjord-
like set of bookshelves and a wall of literature devoted 
to the apparently one-dimensional realm of “women’s 
issues.” All of these books are free, too. If you plan your 
visit with unbelievable serendipity, you’ll end up at Never 
Ending Books on the second Monday of the given month, 
right in time for Expression Mondays.


About fifteen chairs face the curtained stage area, 
which is cast in a red light. Some of the New Haven resi­
dents are in their nine-to-five office casual, but the book­
store seems more like a friend’s apartment than a place of 
business. And, like a friend, Expression Mondays is only 
one of many recurring events to pass through the shop. 
The musicians and open-mic participants gather around, 
waiting for someone to jump in with original material or 
an homage. Uihlein’s attendance is never guaranteed. 
His manner of managing performances at the store is 
akin to setting wind-up toys in motion; for the most part, 
Uihlein trusts performers to “do their own thing.”


According to Robert Caruthers, a guitar-wielding 
emcee whose stage name is Bobcat, Expression Mon­
days were established “a bunch of years ago” on the 
West Coast. Harry Grammer, founder and CEO of the 
community outreach organization New Earth, wanted to 
create an environment in which people could perform 
without having to worry about record labels, agents, or 
career advancement. Eventually, the event grew beyond 
the walls of the café atmosphere, expanding into schools 
and correctional facilities. Bobcat had met Uihlein from 
the New Haven music scene, and when one of Gram­
mer’s disciples came to Bobcat in search of a venue, Bob­
cat knew the perfect location. 


Performance has been encoded into Never Ending 
Books from the start, and Uihlein saw the books as merely 
a means to an end. “The concept was to sell enough books 
to have the space,” he says. After the workday is over, the 
space—which resembles some musician’s dream living 
room, replete with an upright piano, soft chairs, and a col­
lection of vintage amplifiers–—could be used for classes, 
seminars, rehearsals, and concerts. Now that the books are 
free, the utility of the space hasn’t changed. Uihlein is


just much more open about lending the space out: there’s 
nothing to steal, and so long as the performer cleans up 
after themselves, he isn’t worried. Inquiries about finan­
cial ledgers are met with circumlocution; aside from 
small donations, the shop seems to draw life from the 
sounds that reverberate in its midst.


On the second Saturday of every month, Never Ending 
Books is the venue for the Uncertainty Music Series, the 
brainchild of New Haven artist Carl Testa. Testa’s “uncer­
tainty” is not manifest in indecision, but rather in the 
sheer breadth of his curatorial direction. In the archive of 
past concerts online and on the store’s flyer-studded win­
dows, you’ll find musicians whose work spans free jazz, 
minimalism, noise, musique concrète, IDM, and con­
temporary chamber music. Yale School of Music compo­
sition student Brian Heim, who performed for an Uncer­
tainty concert in September, says the venue gives him 
the “opportunity to listen more freely” to certain strains 
of music that “wouldn’t be as well received elsewhere.” 
For Uncertainty artists, Never Ending Books is a sort of 
proving ground, before they head to larger local venues 
like Firehouse 12 or The Big Room. 


Uihlein approaches the concert scheduling with non­
chalance. If someone whom he knows “well enough” 
asks to use the space, he’ll generally accept. And once 
the minimal promotional details are ironed out—“I don’t 
tell anyone about your gig,” he says—he backs off. It’s 
not uncommon for him to give performers the keys to 
the shop when he can’t make a concert. A semi-retired 
carpenter and occasional write-in candidate for Mayor of 
New Haven, Uihlein is quiet about how he spends his 
time. He’s a member of the New Haven Improvisers Col­
lective that performs regularly at Never Ending. On the 
Collective’s out-of-date webpage, which enumerates each 
player’s main instrument, Uihlein’s name appears near 
the very top of the list. His instrument? Propulsion.


While Uihlein’s presence is often felt from afar, 
at the Expression Monday I attend, he sits in the back 
and surveys the week’s expressionists. Bobcat ends his 
opening remarks with an admonition of sorts: “Here, 
you are encouraged—your arm may be twisted to 
express yourself.” 


A few folk songs round out Bobcat’s time on stage, and at 
the end of the last song, the room’s eyes turn to me. About 
twelve eager attendees greet me with hopeful gazes. For 
the first time, I realize that participation, whether through 
a twisted arm or my own volition, is the real entrance fee 
at Never Ending Books. The quality of my contribution, 
the consistency of my attendance—these are secondary 
to my obligation to take part in whatever exhibition has 
the store for the night. Uihlein trusts his musical tenants 
implicitly, and he seems to expect the same of those who 
chance on the store when it’s open for a concert. Beneath 
his indifferent air, he propels his patrons to reflect upon 
Never Ending’s musical liberality. I pay the creative tithe 
and sing one of my songs at the piano. Thinking that I’ve 
said what I had to say, I close the fallboard, but Uihlein’s 
voice rises above the encouraging applause. He wants me 
to play another.
— Griffin Brown is a sophomore
in Trumbull College


**Title: VALLEY**
**Author: Gideon Broshy**
**Page number(s): 18**

p o e m
The hills of Austria
are like a sleeping Clifford,
Or like the carcass of a giant babushka
from the valley rises the thick 
fertilizer smell
and three young boys in striped wool
sweaters, lead by their blonde
sister, weave through the still army
of stalactic pines



**Title: INDABA ON EDGEWOOD**
**Author: Edward Columbia**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
NOVEMBER 2015
 19
photo by Edward Columbia
Bea Dozier-Taylor, the New Haven native who 
opened the bookstore and gallery in 1988, has devoted 
the last twenty-seven years of her life to this message. 
“He who controls the images controls the mind,” she 
says, “and too often Black people are sold on false 
images of ourselves. This is a place for Black brilliance 
and Black beauty.” 

At 64, Dozier-Taylor has the easy wisdom of someone who knows what she believes. Some days she wears 
a wrap over her short-cropped hair, other times a baseball cap. She is quick to smile, if somewhat slower to 
laugh. She does not mince words, nor does she allow 
anyone to put them in her mouth. She quotes verses 
from Elizabeth Alexander, Langston Hughes, and the 
a three-storey building on the corner of Day Street 
and Edgewood Avenue bears two side-by-side signs. The 
first reads, “A Walk in Truth: Christian Books”; the other, 
“blackPRINT: a Black-American Heritage Gallery.” 
Hanging in the window to the right of the entrance is 
a large banner with the words “TELL ALL THE CHILDREN OUR STORY—WE’VE COME THIS FAR 
BY FAITH” in red, black, and green, the colors of the 
Pan-African flag. Campaign signs for Mayor Toni Harp 
run along the windowsills, beside black-and-white posters with the slogan “#BlackLoveMatters.” Fixed to the 
front door is a quote from the African American physician and astronaut Mae Jemison: “Never be limited by 
other people’s limited imaginations.”


**Title:  Dona nobis pacem**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 20**

Advent concert
yale camerata
Marguerite L. Brooks, conductor
Music of Bach, Mozart, Pärt, and more
Saturday, December 5 · 7:30 pm
Battell Chapel
400 College St., New Haven
yale institute of sacred music presents
Christmas in Lübeck
yale schola cantorum
Simon Carrington, guest conductor
Music of Buxtehude and more
Friday, December 11 · 5 pm
Christ Church New Haven
84 Broadway at Elm, New Haven
Preconcert talk at 4 pm
Both concerts are free; no tickets required. ism.yale.edu


**Title: A Walk in Truth and Blackprint**
**Author: Edward Columbia**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 22
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
includes color illustrations and articles on Black histo­
ries. A portrait of Christ as a Black man, surrounded by 
Black apostles, watches over the entire store from the 
back wall. 

The store’s motto is “Selling us on ourselves.” To 
Dozier-Taylor, drawing attention to Black struggles and 
accomplishments both in cultural and religious con­
texts not only instills greater pride in Black patrons and 
heightens awareness in non-Black patrons, but also cor­
rects misrepresentations of history. Still, she says, while 
most appreciate the Blackprint section of the store, 
some visitors of color take issue with Dozier-Taylor’s 
decision to only display images and works that portray 
Biblical figures as dark-skinned Semitic people. 

“I often run into this sentiment of ‘Don’t touch my 
Jesus!’” says Dozier-Taylor. “Or people say, ‘Just know­
ing Jesus is enough,’ as if I was politicizing everything 
by showing him as a dark-skinned man. And that’s 
another thing I hear, especially from Black men—‘I 
ain’t gonna worship some white man.’ But because I do 
know Jesus and how important he is, I respond, ‘Well, 
if that’s your problem, get yourself a Black one!’”

She adds, “Look, it’s not only about presenting an 
alternative image. Answer me this: do you think Joseph 
would have been able to hide Jesus in Egyptland if 
Jesus looked like a Scandinavian?”

Dozier-Taylor works to make the bookstore a bea­
con in the community. She has, over the years, offered 
advice to other Black entrepreneurs on the verge of 
opening their own businesses. She opens her doors to 
people from the neighborhood who have businesses 
but might not yet have an office, particularly business­
women of color who need a space to meet with clients. 
The bookstore also hosts events showcasing Black 
artists. At a book signing and reading in mid-October, 
self-published African American author Jill Snyder 
read from a book of love letters between her mother 
and father during their courtship in the nineteen-thir­
ties. People filtered in and out of the event, and at any 
given time over the several-hour-long period there 
were roughly ten people in attendance, all Black, all 
local, all engaged. 

Snyder explained to her audience that she viewed 
creating the book, entitled Dear Mary, Dear Luther, 
as an exploration of family histories that long untold. 
In researching her mother and father, she found docu­
mentation of her grandparents and great-grandparents, 
the latter of whom were enslaved, and had fled slavery, 
in the American South. 

“My grandmother always said our ancestors escaped 
slavery in Virginia,” Snyder recalled. “But I only had 
that as an anecdote, something people weren’t really 
willing to speak on because it was too painful. When 
I found my great-grandfather’s obituary, it finally val­
idated his story and brought to light some of this lit­
tle-known Black history.”

Snyder spoke to her frustration with widespread 
portrayals of Black men as being rough and crude. 
An exchange of written love letters, she pointed out, 
is a form of romance seldom afforded Black men in 
their depictions in novels and other media. She added 
that her father, during the time she knew him, always 
appeared a hard and stoic man. Finding his tender let­
ters was a revelation in and of itself.

“Here is the heart of my father,” she said, fanning 
the dog-eared pages of her book. “He put his heart 
on paper.” 

Dozier-Taylor hopes that such events impact her 
neighborhood. Several friends have urged her to move 
downtown, for increased safety and foot traffic, but stay­
ing in Dwight is important to her. “We often have so 
much fear of our own communities,” she says. “Despite 
all our love, there is this fear, and it’s a strange dance 
we do. I wrestled with that for a long time, wondering 
whether it wasn’t some kind of punishment that I was 
here. But recently it became very clear to me: I am 
here precisely because I am not afraid. I know that this 
is where God always intended me to be.”

Behind the building that houses A Walk in Truth 
and Blackprint is a small backyard garden, between 
the store and the neighboring Antillean housing proj­
ect. Up against the fence of the yard is a bright mosaic 
depicting Black men, women, and children. Beside the 
mosaic is a grey stone cross. 

“Remember that this space is, first and foremost, a 
place of exchange,” Dozier-Taylor explains. “For peo­
ple to exchange ideas, perspectives, hope, and love. 
That mosaic is showing you an indaba—a place to 
meet, a place to gather, a place to exchange. And that 
is what I try to do here: give people their indaba.”

Over the nearly three decades Dozier-Taylor has 
occupied her corner, she has seen the neighborhood 
around her change. She has seen businesses open and 
close. She has seen old liquor stores pack up and new 
schools open. She has seen schools torn down to make 
room for condominiums. She has watched and aided 
the growth of Black entrepreneurs, just as she has seen 
Black tenants wracked with rent from white landlords. 
Through it all, she has built and nurtured a space of 
safety, learning, and welcome for her community. 
Through it all, the indaba’s doors stay open.
— Edward Columbia is a sophomore
in Morse College


**Title: IT’S EASIER NOT TO THINK ABOUT IT**
**Author: Libbie Katsev**
**Page number(s): 24**

 24
present day. Each year, an estimated fourteen million 
gallons of untreated sewage flow into the West River, 
which runs through Bethany, Woodbridge, and New 
Haven before emptying into the harbor. The over­
flows are caused by storm water runoff: in cities and 
suburbs, where the soil is typically obstructed by lay­
ers of cement and pavement, the runoff can’t perme­
ate through to the soil. It either floods the streets or is 
directed to a management system via downspouts and 
gutters. In New Haven, the sewage and storm water sys­
tems are one and the same, leading to combined sewer 
overflows, or CSOs, during storms. Storm water com­
bines with sewage as it flows into the pipes, which are 
designed to overflow into the river when they exceed 
the sewage treatment plant’s capacity. And even before 
the storm water makes contact with sewage, it is a 
source of pollution:  it brings with it all the debris and 
pollution it has picked up on the sidewalks and streets, 
including chemicals, fertilizer, antifreeze, and animal 
feces. And the few residents who do regularly interact


new haven is a city of unseen rivers. In addition to 
sitting on the shores of the Long Island Sound, it is part 
of three separate watersheds—water runs off into three 
different rivers that run through the city: the Quinnip­
iac River, the Mill River, and the West River, the last 
of which is twenty-five miles long and, in New Haven, 
largely out of sight of the city dwellers.

“Some people honestly don’t even know that the 
river exists,” said Kendall Barbery, the Green Infra­
structure Program manager at the Connecticut Fund 
for the Environment/Save the Sound.

Yale, for its part, only widens the gap between people 
and the river. The athletic complex cuts off river access 
by cutting off the path trailing the West River with a 
large fence; while a sign reads, “PUBLIC ACCESS TO 
WEST RIVER: SUNRISE TO SUNSET,” the gate is 
padlocked shut.  

It should be no surprise, though, that locals have 
looked away from the rivers—for centuries, they have 
been sites of serious pollution, continuing up to the 

Sewage contamination in New Haven’s West River 
Libbie Katsev 



**Title: New Haven's Rivers: A Fight for Clean Water**
**Author: Libbie Katsev**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
NOVEMBER 2015
 25
hood memories of collecting the lead dumped by a 
steak knife factory near the river and melting it down 
into toys. 


As the public’s understanding of sewage and the 
importance of clean water has evolved, the conditions 
of the rivers have improved over time. This change was 
largely catalyzed by the Clean Water Act, which Con­
necticut passed in 1972 and introduced regulations for 
water polluters and water standards. Recalling the pol­
lution in the nineteen-seventies as its worst ever, Mush­
insky notes the drastic improvements all three New 
Haven rivers have made since then, largely due to the 
Clean Water Act. Fish populations, for example, have 
rebounded. Now ospreys and bald eagles nest along the 
Quinnipiac River.      


But as suburbia has encroached on the undeveloped 
areas, Mushinsky says, so too has the amount of imper­
meable surfaces—sidewalks and streets—that create 
runoff to the rivers. And while the rivers are no lon­
ger streams of sewage and trash, parts of the river and 
its tributaries remain practically cut off from human 
access, generating indifference to them. As a result, the 
river’s health suffers, and New Haven residents don’t 
know they are being robbed of their waters.
with the river tend to be those who use it as a source of 
food—they fish in it and crab in it, unaware that their 
dinner has been swimming in sewage. 


In an effort to alleviate pollution in the West River 
and reconnect residents to the river, local organizers 
have created a plan to bolster New Haven’s grey (i.e. 
traditional and man-made) water infrastructure with 
green infrastructure inspired by the Earth’s natural sys­
tem. On the border of Edgewood Park runs Westpark 
Avenue, one block of which is lined with plant beds 
that look like miniature secret gardens, with small clus­
ters of trees and plants framed by stone blocks and little 
rails. These are bioswales: landscaping elements that 
collect rainwater. They are an element of New Haven’s 
recently established green infrastructure, designed to 
mimic the ways that Earth’s water cycle naturally filters 
out pollutants. A few blocks away, rain gardens—wood­
chip-and-gravel lined rectangles filled with shrubs and 
flowers—dot the roads, diverting water from storm 
drains and filtering out pollutants.


The bioswales are part of a larger initiative put 
forth by the West River Watershed Coalition, a group 
of local residents, activists, and government officials 
trying to heal New Haven’s rivers using methods that 
rely on cultural change and green infrastructure. The 
West River Watershed Restoration Plan, which was 
approved this October, outlines the Coalition’s goals—
using green infrastructure projects like bioswales and 
rain gardens to reduce CSOs, preserving and restoring 
habitat along the river, increasing flood resilience, and 
educating the community about the rivers to encour­
age connection and stewardship. 


When Europeans first founded urban settlements 
in the New Haven area, early New Haven residents 
began “using rivers basically as conveyance systems 
for sewage and other types of trash,” Barbery told me. 
Eventually, the river and its tributaries became so con­
taminated that people preferred no waterways at all.


By the middle of the twentieth century, the rivers 
were full of contaminants and impossible to use for 
any recreational purposes. “When I was a kid, the river 
was something to be afraid of,” Wallingford State Rep­
resentative Mary Mushinsky said. “It was very foul—
once in a while there was a boat trip and it would be so 
unpleasant that you wouldn’t want to go again.” 


As a child growing up in Westville, environmental 
anthropologist David Casagrande, FES ’95, remem­
bers going down to play in the river, near where the 
pulp factory where his father worked  discharged its 
waste into the water. Casagrande’s father has child­
THE FEW RESIDENTS WHO 
DO REGULARLY INTERACT 
WITH THE RIVER TEND TO 
BE THOSE WHO USE IT 
AS A SOURCE OF FOOD—
THEY FISH AND CRAB 
IN IT, UNAWARE THAT 
THEIR DINNER HAS BEEN 
SWIMMING IN SEWAGE.


--- Page 26 ---

 26
Gary Zrelak, director of operations at the East Shore 
Water Pollution Abatement Facility, tells me that while 
CSOs are a problem, he is more concerned about 
storm water as a source of pollution in the West River. 
However, he says, “I’m not trying to say [CSOs] are 
good. They’re part of the problem, and we have a long-
term plan to address those.”


The abatement facility, which processes waste and 
sewage for New Haven, Hamden, East Haven, and 
Woodbridge, is surprisingly picturesque, once you get 
past the primary treatment process and the sludge, and 
before you get to the incineration room. It’s situated 
on the shore of Long Island Sound, and surrounded by 
groves of trees that cut it off from the nearby residential 
areas. 


The first time Zrelak and I speak over the phone, it’s 
raining. He mentions that tonight will be one of those 
nights when the pipes overflow into the river, which 
makes the sound of rain on my roof a little less enjoy­
able than usual. On rainy days, when the pipes are 
over capacity, they are designed to release untreated 
sewage and storm water right into the river. The forty 
million gallons of sewage (the daily average, although 
it can increase by 100 million gallons on rainy days) 
that do make it to the treatment plant end up in giant 
covered tanks whose contents aren’t visible from above. 
They make their presence known by their smell: the 
solid waste is first filtered out of the sewage, leaving 
“grey water” that travels out through secondary treat­
ment. As it begins the bacterial treatment processes, 
the air begins to take on the not-quite-pleasant but 
not-quite-repugnant smell of living mud. By the time 
it passes through clarifiers and is disinfected with chlo­
rine, it is clear.


The solid waste, meanwhile, takes a different path. 
It ends up in the massive, multistory incinerator where 
the solid waste circulates and burns. As I peer into the 
incinerator’s flames, it occurs to me what challenges 
environmentalists contend with: often, the tradeoff for 
one problem brings another: we (mostly) no longer 
dump raw sewage into rivers or the sound, but sewage 
treatment creates some significant pollution if its own, 
including the air pollution caused by incineration.


By using green infrastructure, the coalition may be 
able to solve the problem, at least for CSOs, without 
making that trade.

photo by Jen Lu


--- Page 27 ---

 27
Supporting the existing combined sewer system with 
green infrastructure requires less time and money than 
deconstructing the current system to rebuild two sep­
arate systems. Separating the sewage and storm water 
system would theoretically involve tearing up the 
streets and installing another system of pipes that carry 
storm water only. While the GNHWPCA has a long-
term plan to control CSOs, it will take decades. And, 
even then, the storm water runoff will continue to pol­
lute the bodies of water into which it flows. 


Instead, the coalition plans to eliminate sewage 
overflows by stopping storm water runoff from reaching 
the pipes in the first place. As the city of New Haven 
has become more and more developed, the runoff has 
increasingly become a cause of pollution in the river—
both because it causes sewage to overflow, and also 
because it is polluted. Small-scale innovations like the 
bioswales redirect the storm water runoff through natu­
ral means towards the major bodies of water. 


While pristine at its source, the West River grows 
increasingly polluted as a result of increased pave­
ment and streets that block the re-absorption of 
storm water. Forty percent of surfaces in the lower 
watershed are impenetrable, far above the threshold 
level of twelve percent—the level at which local riv­
ers begin to see degraded water quality as a result of 
storm water runoff. Unable to be absorbed into the 
soil, the storm water flows into the river, bringing 
pollutants with it. The river, unsurprisingly, suffers, 
as does Long Island Sound, into which West River 
ultimately empties. 


To extend conservation efforts beyond the bioswales 
and urban gardens, members of the coalition have gone 
house to house asking watershed inhabitants to discon­
nect their downspouts, which carry storm water directly 
from roofs to rain gutters. Local environmental activist 
Lynne Bonnet, who helped bring together the group 
that became the coalition, is working on gathering and 
distributing rain barrels, to help people store storm 
water on their property until the storms have cleared 
and the system is no longer overcapacity. The hope is 
that, when implemented on a large scale, smaller treat­
ment measures could eliminate runoff into the rivers 
altogether, and pave the way for a more sustainable 
water management system.              	


“To undo urbanization is not cheap and it’s not easy,” 
Mushinsky said, but the watershed plan also offers what 
she says is the “easiest and cheapest” solutions to the 
problem. “When you have to dig up a whole street and 
install a storage for sewage overflow or some of those 
big projects, those are just so expensive that they’re 
going to take decades to do. But the smaller ones, dis­
connecting people’s downspouts … that kind of thing is 
just a cultural change. We just have to go through the 
neighborhoods and educate people to do it.”


In addition to small-scale intervention, the coalition 
intends to reinvigorate community connection to New 
Haven’s bodies of water. As demonstrated by the coali­
tion and its members, when people feel connected to 
the rivers, they work to improve them. Currently, much 
of the river and its tributaries remain blocked by either 
steep banks or private property. Improving access will 
hopefully further entrench community commitment to 
improving the water’s pollution. So far, the coalition 
is working to create an unbroken walking path along 
the West River, given it recently received greenway 
designation. At Common Ground High School, stu­
dents are working on ways to increase access to Winter­
green Brook, a tributary of the West River that runs by 
their campus. 


Already, the West River Watershed coalition has suc­
ceeded in bringing together a diverse group commu­
nity members—including people who live in the Mill 
and Quinnipiac watersheds—and uniting them around 
the rivers. The plan provided them with a vision of how 
to achieve a New Haven with effective management of 
both sewage and storm water. They hope they will one 
day see the waters restored to their natural state.
— Libbie Katsev is a junior 
in Davenport College
THE HOPE IS THAT, WHEN 
IMPLEMENTED ON A LARGE 
SCALE, SMALLER TREATMENT 
MEASURES COULD 
ELIMINATE RUNOFF INTO 
THE RIVERS ALTOGETHER, 
AND PAVE THE WAY FOR A 
MORE SUSTAINABLE WATER 
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM.



**Title: WHO PROTECTS PICASSO?**
**Author: Lora Kelley**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 28
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
WHO PROTECTS PICASSO?
P R O F I L E
Through the eyes of a guard at the Yale University Art Gallery 
Lora Kelley
“What is a museum guard to do, I thought to myself; 
what, really, is a museum guard? On the one hand, you 
are a member of a security force charged with protecting 
priceless materials from the crazed or kids or the slow 
erosive force of camera flashes; on the other hand you are 
a dweller among supposed triumphs of the spirit.”
— From Leaving the Atocha Station, Ben Lerner
it’s noon, and Imani Lane looks over forty-seven tiny 
security screens spread across two PC monitors. Lane 
has been a guard at the Yale University Art Gallery for 
more than thirteen years. After years on the floor, she 
now also works at the front desk in the Nolen Center, 
the museum education building across the street from 
the Gallery. She scans the screens for movements the 
on-floor guides might miss. When visitors walk through 
the galleries, sit on benches, or encounter a Van Gogh 
for the first time, Lane is watching. 
As a guard, especially when in the gallery, Lane is 
tasked with helping patrons. But, mostly, her job is not 
to get in the way. “We’re supposed to be invisible,” she 
says. It’s difficult to imagine Lane, who is bubbly and 
effusive, fading into the background. Lane laughs often 
when she talks. She is at ease in her black leather office 
chair, wearing a uniform of a blue button-up shirt, kha­
kis, and clogs. But she emphasizes that the role of a 
guard is to maintain order, not to “to bother or talk too 
much to people in the gallery.”

It can be tough not to talk, especially when patrons 
want to address Lane. “When you’re in an art gallery, 
you can get emotional,” Lane says, and visitors some­
times look to her to unload their reflections. Van Gogh’s 
Night Café, in particular, often moves people to talk. 
Lane just listens and nods politely. When people ask if 
she likes the art, she can’t share her opinions. But, at 
her desk away from the art, Lane makes it clear that her 
natural impulse would be to engage enthusiastically 
with visitors.

A few minutes into our conversation, a museum 
patron wanders out of the elevator near Lane’s desk, 
looking lost. Interrupting herself mid-sentence, Lane 
greets him, “Hi, how are you doing? Welcome to the 
Nolen Center. Are you looking for the way out?” The 
man responds yes, revealing his French accent. Imme­
diately, Lane asks, “Parlez vous Francais?” and, when 
he nods, she adds, “Je m’appelle Imani.” He grins 
and asks if she speaks Spanish, too. Lane replies, “un 
pocito,” before laughing and giving him directions to 
the exit (in English).

Sending the tourist off in the elevator, Lane mod­
estly shrugs. “You meet so many people from around 
the world, you want to be able to say something.”

Lane fondly recalls the excitement of getting on 
the train with her class as a kid in New York City and 
visiting the Museum of Natural History, the Tomb of 
Perneb at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and the 
MoMA. This early love of museums has stayed with 
her, and she thinks all her fellow guards share it at least 
to some extent. “You couldn’t work here and not like 
the art, ” she says. “You can’t tune it out.”


When there aren’t visitors in the galleries 
she’s guarding, Lane switches from being a guard—
watching people watching art—into being a patron 
of the museum. She fixes her gaze on her favorite
 pieces, focusing on one or two at a time. “I love objects 
that look like they’re in motion,” she says. 
When I meet Lane again, this time in the lobby of 
the Yale University Art Gallery, we take the elevator up 
to the Modern and Contemporary section to visit The 
Knife Grinder, one of Lane’s favorite paintings. In it, a 
man hunched over a knife pushes through geometric 
shapes. It’s a cubo-figurist piece. Shapes radiate out­
ward from the central figure as multiple iterations of 
each of his body parts repeat in shades of orange, blue, 
and grey.

LANE STANDS STILL AS HER 
WELL-PRACTICED GAZE CUTS 
EASILY TO THE CENTER OF 
THE PAINTING, TO THE KNIFE 
IN THE FIGURE’S HANDS. SHE 
FOCUSES ON THE SLITS AND 
ANGLES ON THE CANVAS; 
THEY REMIND HER OF THE 
FLIPBOOKS SHE USED TO 
MAKE IN ART CLASS AS A KID.


--- Page 29 ---

NOVEMBER 2015
 29
Lane stands still as her well-practiced gaze cuts eas­
ily to the center of the painting, to the knife in the fig­
ure’s hands. She focuses on the slits and angles on the 
canvas; they remind her of the flipbooks she used to 
make in art class as a kid. “The more you look at it, 
the more you notice the movement of the knife,” Lane 
notes. Then she starts to recount the progression of her 
relationship to this work: at first she was puzzled by the 
knife, since when she looks at a painting for the first 
time, she never reads the labels. (She waits until she 
has explored the painting on her own.) “For a while 
when I first saw it I was like ‘is that a fork?’” She told 
herself, “Let me figure it out.” So she asked questions. 
Where is the figure standing? Is he in a basement? Is 
he using the knife to create or destroy? She muses, 
“Sometimes I don’t want to know too much because 
that wouldn’t leave as much for me to do on my own.” 
Looking closely, Lane cycles slowly through the 
museum’s collection, interpreting and re-interpret­
ing. But then, as soon as a visitor walks in, she snaps 
to attention. She needs to make sure that the art is out 
of harm’s way.

The Gallery holds pieces by Picasso, Brancusi, Rot­
hko, and Fra Angelico, to name a few. But, for most of 
her day, Lane is not focusing her gaze on brushstrokes. 
Instead, she says, “I make sure no little children are 
crawling on the floor crying that they lost their mom­
mies” and “I’m just here to make sure the art stays on 
the walls.” She scans the corners of the room in case 
someone trips on a bench. From her perch at her secu­
rity desk, she focuses more on the moving shapes of vis­
itors than the tiny, static art on the gallery walls. She is 
constantly watching to make sure no one gets too close 
to the art. “Everyone has the urge to touch,” she says.

Leaning in, as if telling me a secret, Lane describes 
her dream exhibit: the full a tactile museum space. She 
envisions a “touch gallery” with touchable copies of 
famous pieces. Instead of discouraging tactile engage­
ment, this space would sanctify it. She pictures a space 
filled with reproductions of the museum’s greatest hits. 
She has a specific room in mind, one in the basement 
of the YUAG that has an empty wall. Visitors (and 
Lane) could view pieces that, she says, for example, 
will “Feel and look just like an actual Picasso. And you 
can touch it.” 

There would still be guards in this gallery, to help 
out if someone trips or if a kid wanders in unaccom­
panied. But the works would not need to be watched 
so vigilantly. This dream space would make Lane’s life 
as a guard easier. In this touch gallery, she imagines, 
“people can hopefully get the touchies out of them,” 
so upstairs they would not try to touch original works. 
Lane prefers when she does not need to stop visitors 
from doing what they want to do. When visitors come 
in, she says she always thinks, “I don’t want to talk to 
you,” hoping that the patron will not cause trouble. 

Lane develops all kinds of plans while in the gal­
lery, and she acts on some. After hours looking at Picas­
sos, she had the idea to start sketching famous Picasso 
paintings “from a security guard’s perspective” in her 
free time. She just ordered some fabrics on eBay to 
start sewing dresses inspired by patterns in paintings. 
“All these ideas come from me working here, me being 
around the art handling, the exhibitions department, 
conservation,” she says.

The museum guard does a delicate dance—protect­
ing art while trying not to interfere with the onlooker’s 
experience. In the tactile gallery of Lane’s imagina­
tion, this task might be easier. But for the moment, she 
continues to guard the space, eyes flickering across the 
canvases or computer screens, absorbing all the angles.
— Lora Kelley is a junior
in Davenport College
illustration by Emma Liebman



**Title: a new radio station wants to localize New Haven’s airwaves**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 30**

 30



**Title: THE SIGNAL’S BACK IN TOWN**
**Author: Elena Saavedra Buckley**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
halfway through a show on New Haven’s new lo­
cal radio station, Onyeka Obiocha is talking about rural 
Tanzanian villages. But, as is standard on WNHH, the 
conversation loops back to the city. Obiocha’s warm, 
tenor voice describes how the beans make their way to 
his downtown coffee shop, The Happiness Lab. Shafiq 
Abdussabur, the host of Urban Talk Radio, asks him 
about the ins and outs of the business in a voice that 
can command a room. Adbussabur takes measured, 
attention-grabbing pauses between sentences as if he 
were speaking to an audience of thousands. He sounds 
like he’s been doing this for a while. 

Near the end of the show, Obiocha asks if he can 
explain some of his business’s philosophy. “Now that 
I hopefully have one or two people’s ears here—” he 
begins, but Abdussabur interrupts: “You have ten 
thousand ears!” He’s joking, and the men laugh again. 
They know they don’t have ten thousand ears, not even 
close—but they’re still in the studio, broadcasting, for 
the sake of local news.

Abdussabur had never done radio before August, but 
he has since hosted episodes about gun violence, polic­
ing, a local arts nonprofit, and urban biking, to name a 
few. Most days, he works as a New Haven police officer 
and treasurer of the New Haven Police Union. Now 
he can also call himself a radio personality. He and 
the hosts of twenty-five other shows make up the voices 
of WNHH, the city’s newest independent news source, 
which launched in August. There are shows about pol­
itics, sports, books, businesses, cooking, and local mu­
sic. Two hours a day are dedicated to Spanish-language 
programming. Mayor Toni Harp comes into the studio 
on Mondays, and a man named Joe Ugly hosts three 
hours of talk radio and local hip-hop each morning. 
WNHH is an attempt to inject New Haven’s airwaves 
with conversation by and for locals, with stories that 
national news outlets often overlook. As it becomes 
easier and easier for people to curate the news they 
want to hear, whether with podcasts or topic-specific 
apps, WNHH stands by the belief that tuning in, with­
out the ability to control what you might hear, is what 
it really means to be in the know. 

Unlike New Haven’s more established stations, 
WNHH is classified as “low power,” a type of FM ra­
dio license for nonprofits. After the Telecommunica­
tions Act of 1996, national radio groups were allowed 
to buy clumps of smaller stations and turn them into 
corporate chains. Suddenly, many once-autonomous 
stations across the country were broadcasting identical 
content. The FCC created the “low power” license in 
2000 as an answer, giving people the ability to broad­
cast independently, albeit with a weaker signal. These 
same large companies then lobbied for the Radio 
Broadcasting Preservation Act in the same year, limit­
ing the growth of low power stations in order to avoid 
interference with high power, commercial ones. Grass­
roots activists spent more than ten years fighting for 
their right to broadcast until Congress finally passed 
the Local Community Radio Act of 2010. 

WNHH is one of the successful applicants for the 
new low power licenses. That means that it’s part of a 
small but growing community of independent stations. 
Today, there are more than 1,300 in the U.S., many 
of which are Spanish-language or run by Christian 
groups. They often serve a hyper-specific listenership, 
priding themselves on their locality, their honesty, and 
their ruthlessly unedited material. It’s the spirit of pi­
rate radio, upgraded to legal status. At a time when 
podcasts—with soundtracks, charming quips, and art­
ful room noise—dictate the marketable future of radio, 
low power stations and their advocates hold on tightly 
to a certain grittiness (though the FCC still doesn’t al­
low them to swear).

But WNHH isn’t just trying to combat the Goliaths 
of media; it wants to inform, and sound like, its home 
city. It works in concert with the New Haven Indepen­
dent, a local online news publication meant for “the 
knuckleheads to the dreamers and schemers, and ev­
eryone in between,” according to the site’s mission 
statement. Both WNHH and the Independent operate 
out of two rooms on the third floor of a downtown brick 
building. The leader of the five-person team that runs 
both is Paul Bass, Yale class of 1982, who founded the 
Independent in 2005. 

WNHH’s signal spans only about three miles, reach­
ing north of New Haven but breaking up when blocked 
by tall buildings downtown. (When I first tuned in, 
blips of a Katy Perry song from another station inter­
rupted the signal.) To make up for this deficit, WNHH 
relies heavily on its presence on the Independent web­
site, where audio content is increasingly finding its 
home. Each episode is uploaded to SoundCloud and 
can be heard live on the Independent’s website, where 
most episodes average around thirty listeners. 

WNHH has a dramatically smaller audience than 
pop stations or established podcasts. But even if the 
airwaves are hard to find and online listeners tend to 
be few, the station still broadcasts content for twelve 
hours a day. The Independent’s sense of duty to telling 
New Haven’s stories, and having the right people tell 
them, pervades the entire station—it pushes the hosts 
to get behind the microphone, with people they know, 
and to simply speak, even if it’s to speak to an audience 
of a hundred, thirty, or even zero. 

“You’re listening to WNHH LP 103.5 FM New Hav­
en, streaming live at www.newhavenindependent.org,” 
says Lucy Gellman, the station manager at WNHH, 
into her microphone. She’s in the studio—a room the 
size of a walk-in closet next to the main Independent 
office—to introduce Paul Bass and produce his daily 
news show Dateline. Gellman stands behind a wooden 
desk at the back of the room, headphones covering her 
short, curly hair. There is no glass barrier between the 
talent and the technician. She uses a desktop control 
panel, stuck between her computer and keyboard, to 
fade out the music by local bands that plays before the 
show starts, and she spends most of the broadcasting 
time writing and responding to tweets or transcribing 
interviews for the Independent site. She does this for 
almost every show on WNHH, every day. On Fridays, 
she gets to be the host of Kitchen Sync, her show about 
food in New Haven. One episode was about her favor­
ite ratatouille recipe. Another discussed the city’s food 
truck laws. 

Sitting at the small linoleum table, across from Bass, 
are two WNHH regulars: State Senators Joe Markley 
and Gary Holder-Winfield, who are here to debate is­
sues from the day’s headlines. The men trade pleas­
antries first; Markley, a balding Republican with im­
pressive posture and teeth, asks Bass about the recent 
Jewish holidays. Holder-Winfield, a young Democrat 
with broad shoulders, has his hands on his knees, ready 
to spar. 

“I thought we’d lead with Planned Parenthood,” Bass 
says, referencing the rallies against defunding the or­
ganization that took place downtown on September 
29. He leans forward to rest his forearms on the table. 
There’s no script. Bass calls out the topics they’ll dis­
cuss as the clock ticks to 11:00 a.m.: the pope, John 
Boehner, state cuts to Medicaid funds, the debate 
over the name of Yale’s Calhoun College. But, first, 
Planned Parenthood.

Markley raises his eyebrows. “I’d rather talk about the 
pope than Planned Parenthood,” he hopelessly offers, 
before placing both palms flat on the table. He’s bracing 
himself. It’s 10:59 a.m. Gellman fades the music. 




**Title: THEY KNOW THEY DON’T HAVE TEN THOUSAND EARS, NOT EVEN CLOSE—BUT THEY’RE STILL IN THE STUDIO, BROADCASTING, FOR THE SAKE OF LOCAL NEWS.**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 34**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Bass has only been hosting Dateline for three months, 
but his long-standing track record as a New Haven 
journalist allows him to talk to people like Markley 
and Holder-Winfield like they’re old pals—often, they 
are. In the book The Wired City, about the founding of 
the Independent, author Dan Kennedy describes Bass 
as “single-handedly holding city hall accountable with 
his fierce reporting” during his stint at the now-defunct 
New Haven Advocate. He wrote for other publications, 
including the Connecticut section of The New York 
Times, Connecticut Magazine, and USA Today, but 
went rogue when he saw the local journalism scene 
dissolving. 
“I felt that corporate media monopolies had destroyed 
local journalism for the most part,” Bass told me, “and 
now everything has to be scaled up, including on the 
web.” In 2005, while local journalists lost their jobs 
and publications closed their doors around the nation, 
Bass started the Independent.  
Like the Independent at its inception, WNHH has 
filled an empty spot in the radio landscape. WNPR is a 
popular station, but it’s based in Hartford and is dominated by national NPR programming. WELI is based 
in New Haven, but the likes of national talking heads 
like Rush Limbaugh and Glenn Beck fill its airwaves. 
Local WYBC (different from WYBCx, Yale College’s 
radio) claims to be “the rhythm of the city,” but it provides music, not discussion.

Where We Live, a daily morning talk show on WNPR, 
is one of the top radio programs for Connecticut-based, 
national, and global news. John Dankosky is the host—
he’s worked at WNPR for years, and many of the stories he’s reported in the state have been broadcast nationally on NPR. A month before WNHH launched, 
Bass asked Dankosky to give a workshop to the hosts to 
teach them the basics of interviewing. 
Unlike listeners of WNHH, those who tune in to 
WNPR and Dankosky’s show aren’t necessarily looking 
for hyper-local programming. 
“If you ask [our listeners] in the street what’s the story 
that’s really important to them, they may say the school 
board in their town, and they might also say the war 
in Afghanistan, or they may say what’s happening with 
the state budget,” Dankosky said. When we spoke, the 
day’s episode of Where We Live had just aired (following NPR’s Morning Edition). A thirteen-piece funk 
band from Hartford called West End Blend had played 
live, and Dankosky interviewed a Yale professor about 
the Iberian film festival she organizes. That’s pretty local. But there remains a divide between WNHH and 
WNPR when it comes to the intended audience of 
that coverage. 
“Public radio has a traditionally very educated, sometime wealthier audience. They tend to be older,” Dankosky said. WNPR is larger than WNHH, but compared 
to what Dankosky calls “big radio”—stations with the 
same voice tracking pop songs for hours—it’s still minuscule. They need money, as do similar stations across 
the country, and that often means getting it from the 
people who tune in faithfully and are likely to donate 
during pledge drives. While they try to attract young 
listeners, it’s still a balancing act. “If you turn away 
from the things that audience likes, you risk losing the 
funding base,” he said.  
WNHH doesn’t have to worry about that. As a low 
power station, they’re funded by grants that Bass applied for years ago instead of by ads, and the future 
of the station depends on getting more grants in the 
coming years. This financial freedom explains why 
Bass cares less about spreading the gospel of WNHH 
than the public radio hosts who spend days doing 
pledge drives for their stations. “We’re not doing any 
billboards or ads on buses,” Bass said. “The way we 
built the Independent was one by one. Every time we 
did a story, people would find out about it because you 
interviewed them. And I feel like we can do it the same 
way, piece by piece, by word of mouth.” His publicity 
model is, essentially, to do his job. 
That’s how Gellman found out about the Independent. When she came to New Haven for a fellowship 
at the Yale University Art Gallery, she didn’t predict 
she’d end up behind the controls at WNHH. After a 
few months at the Gallery, though, she felt stuck in the 
Yale scene.
“I had been profoundly lonely when I moved here,” 
she told me. “I made a couple friends through Yale and 
met the guy who is now my boyfriend, but when you 
move to a new place…” She trailed off. A colleague 
had told her about the Independent, which had an 
opening for a music writer. She started claiming assignments. Trying to get away from Yale herself, she noticed limitations in the Independent’s music coverage.
“We weren’t covering Cafe 9. We weren’t covering 
Bar or Stella Blues, and we weren’t covering anything 
in the Hill, Dixwell, or Newhallville,” she said. “New 
Haven is such a tale of two cities. There are a lot of 
poor white people, there are a lot of poor Black people, and there are a lot of poor Latino and Hispanic 
people, and they’re all in different neighborhoods,” she 
explained. “Sometimes, music venues are what bring 
them together.”


So, four nights a week, Gellman, who describes herself as a “crunchy granola Jew,” set out to report. After 
working a full day at the YUAG, she’d go to performances around the city, sometimes staying up until 2 
a.m. to finish a story for the next day. 
She covered the music beat for over a year. The 
more she wrote for the Independent, the more lukewarm she felt about her pending Ph.D. applications. 
She had reservations about leaving New Haven, which 
she had come to love one concert at a time. So, when 
she was accepted to Duke, Paul Bass offered her a different job: the station manager of a new radio station. 
For any media venture, finding an audience is critical—and tricky. Aliyya Swaby, a 2013 Yale graduate 
who hosts the transportation-themed show In Transit 
on Monday afternoons, told me that she simply doesn’t 
know what kind of people listen to her show. She 
thinks, though, that they probably aren’t her age. Even 
with an online presence, getting young people to listen 
to an hour of radio is difficult when many of them are 
used to picking and choosing their own news. Getting 
their attention often depends on editing and scripts to 
add on-demand entertainment value; WNHH is less 
predictable. The Independent could feasibly do away 
with the satellite dish and only upload their content 
online—it’s something Bass says may happen in the 
future. But, for now, sending their shows out into the 
airwaves still allows potential listeners to stumble upon 
it while driving. There’s less choice on a radio dial than 
on the Internet—with fewer places to turn when they 
lose interest, maybe listeners are likelier to be lured 
out of momentary boredom by terrestrial radio.


On one of her episodes, Swaby interviewed Doug 
Hausladen, who directs the city’s Department of Transportation, Traffic and Parking. (He’s also a water polo 
coach at Yale, and his voice has the energy the job 
demands.) Hausladen, blond and with the build of a 
once-brawny athlete, is well known in New Haven and 
the WNHH office. When he entered the studio, he instinctively hung up his suit jacket on the door hook. 
We started talking about whether people were tuning 
in to WNHH. 
“The number of people that know that I almost 
burned my house down during the cooking experience I talked about on Lucy’s show?” he offered. “It’s 
pretty impressive how many people heard that story.” 
There’s no way of knowing how many people heard 
it on the air, but SoundCloud shows that seventy-seven people heard the episode, and the count gradually 
keeps growing. 
“It’s interesting,” Hausladen said. “I have more work 
to do now that WNHH exists. It used to be that I 
could just read the newspaper article, and I could read 
it quickly. Now I have to listen to an hour of radio.” 
It’s the mindset of the Independent as embodied by 
WNHH: to really live somewhere, New Haven or elsewhere, you have to pay attention. You have to listen. 


**Title: IT’S THE MINDSET OF THE INDEPENDENT EMBODIED BY WNHH: TO REALLY LIVE SOMEWHERE, NEW HAVEN OR ELSEWHERE, YOU HAVE TO PAY ATTENTION. YOU HAVE TO LISTEN.**
**Page number(s): 35**

On the curb outside the Independent’s offices on 
51 Elm Street, Shafiq Abdussabur is standing with his 
17-year-old daughter Salwa, who’s dressed in head-to-
toe magenta. For the Abdussaburs, radio is a family 
affair. Today, Salwa and her mother Mubarakah Ibrahim—who is broadcasting her own show on WNHH as 
we stand on the sidewalk—will be guests on Shafiq’s 
show. Though most kids her age are in class during 
Wednesday mornings like this, Salwa recently withdrew from her charter high school, choosing homeschool instead. After parking his silver minivan, Shafiq 
shakes my hand and says hello in the same baritone 
I’ve heard on air. He and Salwa climb the stairs to the 
Independent offices. 
Mubarakah is already inside the studio wrapping up 
Mornings with Mubarakah, which airs an hour before 
her husband’s Urban Talk Radio. “First we talked about 
doing a show together,” she told me. “Then, in my full 
feminist voice, I was like, ‘Nope! I want my own show!’” 
Like the rest of the family, when Mubarakah laughs, 
she doesn’t giggle—it’s always loud and full. 
   Mubarakah often talks about women’s health for her 
show, covering mindfulness, estrogen in grocer store 
chicken breasts, and obesity. She’s the founder of Fit 
Haven, a nonprofit dedicated to reducing health disparities affecting women and girls, and she used to run 
a gym called BALANCE Fitness Studios. She also has 
a project called Fit Muslimah, an on- and off-line community of Muslim women for whom she leads private 
fitness retreats, since many Muslim women don’t exercise outside of their homes. In 2007, she was on the 
Oprah Winfrey Show for an episode about impressive 
thirty-somethings in America. Now, her accumulated Facebook following is upwards of 205,000 people, 
numbers Bass doesn’t hesitate to admit he cares about.

For Mubarakah, issues like Islam in America and 
what it means to be a Black woman are hard to get 
away from, since they’re parts of her everyday life. Radio, she says, “is my intersection.” It’s where she can 
talk about all of them at once, to people who might 
never hear about them otherwise. 
Shafiq and Salwa arrive at the office and greet Bass, 
who tells Shafiq to pick out one of the WNHH sweatshirts from a cardboard box that just arrived. Salwa slips 
into the studio and takes a seat at the head of the table. 
Her mother sits to her left in a sweater and hijab, both 
scarlet, and her father is on the right. The studio is tiny, 
but WNHH enables the Abdussaburs’ conversation to 
expand beyond its walls. And it’s easy conversation—
they crack jokes, laugh the same rousing laugh, and 
nod their heads in time with the jazz Gellman sends 
through their headphones before the top of the hour. 
Salwa is often a guest on her parents’ shows for brief 
segments called Sass Talkin’ With Salwa. Her elevator pitch requires some choreography: “Sassy is saying 
what you think and meaning what you say, and being, 
like, ‘hey,’” she told me, snapping her fingers, popping 
a hip, and giggling. 
Salwa decided to withdraw from high school because she was diagnosed with depression. She calls 
her current routine “doing her own thing.” Part of that 
thing is preparing her Sass Talkin’ segments, which, 
for now, mostly means reading aloud essays on Urban 
Talk Radio. Today, she’ll talk about economic disparity 
with her parents and describe the feeling of attending 
a Shakespeare festival at Edgerton Park in East Rock, a 
wealthy neighborhood surrounded by areas with some




**Title: NOVEMBER 2015**
**Author:  Elena Saavedra Buckley**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
NOVEMBER 2015
 37
of the city’s highest crime rates. The division troubles 
her, and she takes to radio to talk about it. 
Radio is a way for Salwa to feel in control. “Usually 
I just go home and say, ‘I’m upset about this, and this,’ 
but now I get to say ‘I’m upset about this, and this,’ 
and people are listening to me,” she says. She says her 
friends from school listen to her show. She’s infectiously
optimistic, but she still remembers how difficult it 
was to talk about her illness with her family. 
“There’s this stigma in the African American community
about mental illness that’s kind of like, ‘Get over 
it,’” she says. It’s something she hopes to eventually 
confront through radio. “In the future, I’d hopefully 
have my own show. I think I’m going to do a whole 
series about mental illness and not be afraid of talking 
about it.” 
A few weeks after hearing Onyeka Obiocha on 
Urban Talk Radio, I went to The Happiness Lab. He 
stood behind the counter when I entered, taking a 
detailed pour-over order from the man at the register. 
A dark, curly beard, eyes crinkled into a steady smile, 
a baseball cap—he looked exactly like he did on the 
Independent page. He asked for my order in a voice
 I already knew well.
“I heard you on Urban Talk Radio,” I said. Oh, and 
a latte, too.
Obiocha raised his eyebrows before he started gently 
chuckling. He turned away from me in mock disbelief. 
“You’re the first,” he finally said. “I hope I sounded OK.” 
Swaby came in a few minutes later, followed by an­
other host from the station, which is only a few blocks 
away. I waved at them and Obiocha when I left, skirting
around the society of the knuckleheads, dreamers, 
schemers, what have you. 
I biked home the long way at 4:00 p.m. WNHH’s 
Spanish-language programming was starting. I imagined
the waves flying past my face, holding a quiet 
density, trying to squeeze past tall buildings and sometimes
making it. I couldn’t hear them at that moment, 
of course—instead, cars horns wailed and dissolved. A 
bus sighed as it came to a stop, and as the passengers 
hopped off, I caught only the beginnings and ends of 
muddled words that grazed my ears. The air, a tangle 
of energy, buzzed. 
— Elena Saavedra Buckley is a sophomore 
in Silliman College. She is an associate editor 
of The New Journal.


<br>

**Title: HOME MOVIES**
**Author: Madeline Kaplan**
**Page number(s): 38-39**

 38
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
HOME MOVIES
E N D N O T E
What does the university’s DVD collection say about Yale? 
Madeline Kaplan
since i started working at the Film Study Center 
last September, I’ve walked past Pedalphiles hundreds 
of times. It’s shelved right by the entrance to the film 
library, below Pan’s Labyrinth and a few rows above 
Pulp Fiction. The title is written in orange Comic Sans, 
which tends to catch the eye. Last week, after fourteen 
months of intrigue, I checked out the DVD, carried 
it several blocks up Wall Street, and pushed it into 
my disk drive. Here is what happens in Pedalphiles: a 
documentarian follows several S.C.A.B.s (Skids Creating
Apocalyptic Bicycles) in the year 2000. S.C.A.B.s 
are anti-car, pro-bicycle activists who customize bikes 
and attempt to intimidate drivers. They say rebellious 
things while being interviewed and shout rebellious 
things while riding through the streets of Minneapolis. 
This goes on for thirty-eight minutes. Then the film is 
over. (The credits are also in Comic Sans.)
There are more than 22,000 DVDs in the Film Study 
Center collection, which is housed in the basement 
of the Whitney Humanities Center. Most of the students
who come to the library need to make up for a 
missed class screening, and restrict themselves to several
shelves of films reserved for courses. Huge lectures 
tend to have quite a few stragglers. (It will take a while 
to scrape the Disney syllabus out of my long-term mem­
ory.) Professors can check out an unlimited number of 
films, and many keep a constant stash of several dozen 
DVDs on loan for as long as they want, no risk of late 
fees. One woman brings us a stack of ten movies every 
Tuesday, then asks for ten more. But even the regulars 
tend to stick to certain subsets of the collection: old 
Hollywood classics, contemporary TV dramas, influential
Japanese cinema. After months of fetching the 
same films over and over, I began to wonder about the 
thousands of movies that go perpetually unwatched. It 
was an inspired stroke of procrastination: a search for 
the strangest, most obscure film in the archive.
The “Experimental” section seemed a logical place 
to begin. Since database entries are organized alphabetically,
I started with filmmaker Robert Frank’s 
1971 project, About Me: A Musical. It’s a strange little 
movie, if not a shocking one. Originally intended to be 
a piecemeal meditation on the American music scene, 
at some point during production, it morphed into 
Frank’s first-person journey through various musical 
settings—including the inside of a federal penitentiary. 
(The twist: The filmmaker casts himself as a young 
woman.) About Me: A Musical has no Wikipedia page, 
which makes it pretty obscure by modern standards, 
but its depictions of American music are surprisingly 
meaty. Next on my alphabetized list was The Best of 
Bulgarian Animation, which sounded random enough 
to elude the average Film-Study-Center-goer. In one 
short, a hamlet of squat orange villagers wrestles an 
invading army of slithering black snakes. Not as shiny 
as Pixar, but just as delightful.
I set out to find the film least likely to pique anyone’s 
interest. It would have to be something no professor 
would put on a syllabus, something without much 
of a contribution to its cultural moment. Something 
really unappealing. I sat through (most of) The Lake 
House, a bland and confusing sci-fi romance starring 
Keanu Reeves and Sandra Bullock. But even this could 
have an audience (a scholar of the mid-2000s turtleneck
aesthetic, or a Sandra Bullock fan who made a 
wrong turn).
Searching further for obscure projects, it occurred to 
me that the most unknown films would be listed under 
the “Yale” designation—unlikely to appear in any other 
film archive and, hopefully, impossible to track down 
on the internet. After a bit of digging, I discovered 
Coeducation: The Year They Liberated Yale. The half-
hour-long documentary tracks the first year of coedu­
cation at Yale, from Move-In Day of 1969 to the spring 
of 1970. Though it was filmed forty-five years ago, the 
University looks unnervingly similar to the present-day. 
Female first-years and their parents are worried about 
the social climate of campus, sure, but they’re also 
worried about lugging overstuffed suitcases up four 
flights of Vandy stairs. My favorite interview was filmed 
during Parents’ Weekend in the Pierson courtyard. 
The documentarian asks a father how his daughter is 
enjoying her first few months at Yale, perhaps hoping 
for an answer about the pressure of representing her 
gender, or maybe the anxieties of student unrest over 
Vietnam. “Well, I think she is like most freshmen,” he 
answered. “Lonely.” Coeducation is like a communal 
home movie, the places and people instantly familiar. 
The Yale archive is not just a storage space for the 
anxieties of eighteen-year-olds past. It is also a time 
capsule holding a pair of student-made documentaries 
that speak directly to the student activism unfolding 
on campus today. The first, Warrington Hudlin’s Black 
at Yale, concerns the unconventional education of 
Eugene Rivers. Lacking traditional academic credentials,
Rivers moved to New Haven in 1973 and started 
attending philosophy classes, studying more than fifty 
hours a week, though not enrolled as a student. Once 
Yale administrators discovered that he wasn’t enrolled, 
they were forced to decide whether or not to allow 
Rivers to stay, and to confront an age-old institutional 
question: who is Yale for? 
Thirty years later, Monique Walton and Andia 
Winslow decided to make their own account of Black 
life at Yale in 2004, Still Black, At Yale. In one scene, a 
meeting of The Black Student Alliance at Yale discusses 
holding a Day of Action in response to incidents of 
racial profiling in residential college libraries. We tend 
to think that the things most relevant to our moment 
are happening right now, outside, where everyone can 
see. But sometimes they’re sitting in a film archive, one 
shelf over from the best of Bulgarian animation and 
Keanu Reeves in a turtleneck. 
— Madeline Kaplan is a junior 
in Morse College
illustration by Ivy Sanders Schneider



**Title:  Missing Cat**
**Author:  Anonymous**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Fluffy, grey tabby, answers to "Socks." Last seen near Elm Street.  Reward offered.


--- Page 41 ---

**Title: The Importance of Daily Walks**
**Author: Dr. Emily Carter**
**Page number(s): 42**

Daily walks offer a multitude of benefits, both physical and mental.  Regular exercise improves cardiovascular health, strengthens bones, and helps maintain a healthy weight.  Furthermore, the fresh air and change of scenery can reduce stress and improve mood.  Make time for a daily walk—your body and mind will thank you!


--- Page 43 ---

Tired of tangled cords?  Introducing the new CordKeeper—keeps your cords organized and tangle-free! Order yours today!  Call 1-800-CORDKEEPER.


--- Page 44 ---

**Title: Ode to a Dandelion**
**Author:  Robert Frost**
**Page number(s): 44**

A humble weed, a golden crown,
You push through cracks, all over town.
A burst of sun, a simple grace,
A cheerful smile upon your face.


--- Page 45 ---

**Title:  Local Bakery Wins Award**
**Author:  Sarah Miller**
**Page number(s): 45**

The Sweet Surrender Bakery has won the coveted Golden Whisk award for best sourdough bread in the state! Owner, Maria Hernandez, expressed her gratitude to her loyal customers and dedicated staff.  The bakery is celebrating with a special discount on all sourdough loaves this week.
