Publication date: September 7, 2001
Volume: 34
Issue number: 1


**MASTHEAD**
- PUBLISHER: Silpa Priclhma
- EDITOR-IN-CHIEF: Alrya Kammrtz
- MANAGING EDITORS: Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Patrick Casey Pitts
- DESIGNER: Tatiana Jilkoff
- PRODUCTION MANAGER: Carl Hungtrford
- BUSINESS MANAGER: Eric Rut/tow
- PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR: joanna Lydgau
- WEB DESIGNER: Conor McNally
- ASSOCIATE EDITORS: Blake Wilson, Matthew Urukrwood
- RESEARCH DIRECTOR: Jacob Bl«her
- CIRCULATION AND SUBSCRIPTIONS MANAGERS: Clint Carroli, Sant Hirschhorn
- STAFF: Jessica Bulman • Jessica Cohen • Sushma Gandhi • Benita Singh • Ellen Thompson
- MEMBERS: Joshua Civin • Peter B. Cooper • Tom Griggs • Brooks Kelley • Jennifer Pitts • Henry Schwab • Alan Schoenfeld • Elizabeth Sledge- Fred Strebeigh • Thomas Strong
- ALUMNI: Riclwd Blow • jay Carney • Riclwd Conniff • Ruth Conniff • Elisha Cooper • Laureo Rabin • Steven Weisman • Danid Yergin
- FRIENDS: Steve Ballou • Anson M. Beard, Jr. • Blaire llcnnett • E4wud B. Bcnnen, Jr. • &lwud 8. llcnnett Ill • PaulS. Bennett • GcnJd Bruck • Barban Bundl • Jay Carney • Daphne Qu • Josh Civin • Jonathan M. Oarlt • Coosance Clement • EWha Cooper • Peter B. Cooper • Andy Cowt • Jerry and Rx Cowt • Masi Denison • Alben J. Fox • Mrs. Howard Fox • Da.;d Freeman • Gcoflicy Fried • Arturo Gandar-a • Slwerwin Goldman • David Gr=baJ • Tom Griw • S<epbcn Hdlman • Jane Kamcnsl:y • 8toob Kdlcy • Roser Kirwood • Andrew J. Kuznaki, Jr. • Lewis E. l.duman • Jim 1.-.: • E. Nobks 1.-.: • Hank Mamback • Martha E. Nal • Peter Neill • Howanl H. N<wman • Sean O'Brien • }ulk Petcn • Lewis and Joan Plan • Josh Plaur • Julia !'raton • Laurm Rabin • Fair&x C. Randal • RDIIin RicP • M2lk R.indla • N'ocbobs X. Rizopouloo • S<uan Rohrer • Arleen and Arthur Sap • oa and Dd>i>ie Scars • R.idwd Sbidds • W. Hamp<oa Sides. • LiA SiMrman • Eli:zabcth and Wdliam Slcdr~< • Thomas Sac<dc • Eliubeth Tate • Alex and 8cuy Torello • Mdiaa Turner • Allen and Sanh Wuddl • Danid Ycrpn and An&<Ja S<mt Yerpn


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
FEATURES
Street Cred - Angelo Reyes creates first homes and second chances. - by Matthew Underwood
Blue Genes - A Yale student markets her DNA. - by Jessica Cohen
A Mind ofWinter - Photos by Sam Elder
Arrested Development - When Asian immigrants tried to start a business in an all-black neighborhood, racial politics undermined the American dream. - by Sara Hirschhorn
STANDARDS
Letters to the Editor
Points of Departure
Essay: Lonely Planets - by Anya Kamm~tz
The Critical Angle: A School for Scandal - by Patriclt Casry Pitts


**Title: Street Cred**
**Author: Matthew Underwood**
**Page number(s): 10**
Angelo Reyes creates first homes and second chances.


**Title: Blue Genes**
**Author: Jessica Cohen**
**Page number(s): 14**
A Yale student markets her DNA.


**Title: A Mind of Winter**
**Author: Sam Elder**
**Page number(s): 18**
Photos by Sam Elder


**Title: Arrested Development**
**Author: Sara Hirschhorn**
**Page number(s): 20**
When Asian immigrants tried to start a business in an all-black neighborhood, racial politics undermined the American dream.


**Title: Lonely Planets**
**Author: Anya Kamm~tz**
**Page number(s): 22**
Essay:


**Title: A School for Scandal**
**Author: Patriclt Casry Pitts**
**Page number(s): 24**
The Critical Angle: A School for Scandal by Patriclt Casry Pitts.  rrvimling The Story of Jane by CathmM Cussa, Thinks ... by David Lodg~. and The Dying Animal by Philip Roth



**Title: Panrsed**
**Author: 8/alt~ Wilson**
**Page number(s): 30**
Endnote:


**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Margaret Spillane**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Thank you for Patrick Casey Pins' informative article on the Yale 
School of Drama dean search (The Dean's the Thing. Vol. 33.5). 
It's baflling that people here are so resistant to the challenge of 
such a singular artist as Anne Bogart. Among actors, she's famous 
for not only her aesthetic integrity, but also her remarkable gen-
erosiry and compassion-qualities which, in fact, can make a huge 
difference in a production's outcome. After all, theater depends on 
a group of human beings being able to work with one another 
over time. 

There are two things which you might have added to your argu-
ment: 
1) The important contributions to us theater the Rep made in 
the years between Brustein and Wojewodski. Under Lloyd 
Richards, Yale Rep was the home to every Athol Fugard world pre-
miere; provided the launching pad for playwright August Wilson's 
huge career; introduced plays by Lee Blessing that became interna-
tional successes (A Walk in the WOods, Cobb); gave the world perhaps 
the finest production of Long Day's journey Into Night ever staged 
(Colleen Dewhurst and Jason -Robards starring, Jose Quintero 
directing); and produced from YSD a large number of now-promi-
nent actors, directors and designers (Angela Bassett, Charles 
Dutton, David Alan Grier, Marcus Stern, Evan Yiannoulis, 
Christopher Ackerlind, and on and on). 
2) Regarding the Trinity Rep: You didn't mention that Anne 
Bogart used to be the Artistic Director there-for one year, until 
the timorous board of directors puUed the plug on her. Their excuse 
was the same as the one implied here: the red-herring issue of man-
agement skills. The fact is, in Bogart's one season, she actually 
increased Trinity's subscriber base. At any theater, the installation of 
a new artistic director usually causes a dropoff in subscriptions-
often temporary, while audiences adjust to the new regime. Doesn't 
bringing in more money count as a management skill? 
Margaret Spillane 
Lecturer in English, Yale Universiry


**Title: A More Perfect Union**
**Author: Daniel Kurtz-Phelan**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

SOMETHING BIG IS AiouT TO HAPPEN with 
labor in New Haven. At least the AFL-C;O 
thinks so. Last spring, the national labor 
federation dispatched to the Elm City a 
leading field representative, a maverick 
who specializes in large-scale mobilizations. 
(He is rumored to have been a lead labor 
organizer at the historic WTO protest in 
Seattle in 1999.) The Yale administration is 
not supposed to know he's here, and he 
does not speak to the 
press. 
His 
name 
is 
Vinnie O'Brien. 

April 20, 2001, was 
a day of jarring contrasts 
in New Haven. At 4PM, 
many of Yale's most ven-
erated alumni-a page 
out of the Who's Who of 
the American aristocra-
cy--convened in stately 
Woolsey Hall for the 
opening event of the 
University's 
second 
300th anniversary · cele-
bration. However, as for-
mer Secretary of the 
Treasury Robert Rubin 
and 
one-time 
chair-
woman of the President's 
Council of Economic 
Advisors Janet Yellen 
pontificated about the state of the 
American economy, a crowd of 2,200 Yale 
employees, hospital workers, politicians, 
union organizers, local clergy, and Yale stu-
dents amassed on the New Haven Green, a 
block from Woolsey. Their purpose: to 
wrest the world's attention from the ter-
centennial event and redirect it towards 
New Haven's charging labor movement. 

The scene at the rally, however, offered 
a few jarring conuasts of its own. C lean-cut 
students locked arms with dining hall 
workers and secretaries. On stage, the rab-
hie-rousing speeches of Democratic politi-
c:ians and burly union men gave way to the 
soft-spoken words of a PHD student in a 
cashmere scar£ As the student-a member 
of the Graduate Employees and Students 
Organization (GESO)-spoke about the 
union's multi-year struggle for recognition, 
quoting from A Chorus Line and referring 
to French literature papers in the process, a 
. baffled silence fell over the crowd. 

New Haven's labor movement is a 
complex coalition of disparate groups. The 
city's two established unions are Locals 34 
and 35, united under the Hotel Employees 
and Restaurant Employees International 
Union (HERE) and representing Yale's sec-
vice and maintenance staff. Meanwhile, 
Oisuict II99 of the Service Employees 
International Union (SEIU) and GESO strug-
gle to establish unions for Yale-New Haven 
Hospital workers and graduate student 
teaching assistants, respectively. Each is 
demanding that their employer accept 
what is known as card-check neuuality-
impartiality in the organizing stages and 
recognition once more than half of the 
workers, or in the case of GESO, graduate 
students, have signed a card expressing sol-
idarity with the union. (With card-check 
neutrality, organizers claim, victory is 
inevitable.) At the same time, a nascent 
undergraduate "student union" seeks an 
expanded role in the decision-making 
processes of the University. 

T he five groups-Locals 34 and 35, 
II99• GESO, and me undergraduates-make 
up an incongruous alliance, loosely orga-
nized under the Federation of Hospital and 
University Employees (FHUE). When their 
contracts with Yale expire on January r, 
2002, Local 34 and Local 3 5 will demand 
that the University 
agree to card-check 
neutrality 
in 
the 
unionizing efforts of 
hospital workers and 
graduate 
students. 
"~e have a very 
unique partnership 
here between four 
groups of very differ-
ent workers who are 
looking beyond the 
traditional way in 
which people have 
things in common," 
said 
Deborah 
Chernoff, a full-time 
employee of 1199 
who also serves as the 
Communications 
Director of FHUE. 

And union leaders, 
whether students or workers, express confi-
dence that the alliance, united by a broad-
er sense of civic involvement and social jus-
tice, will stand up in the face of pressure 
from Yale's administration. 

When the people in this alliance 
explained to me what has brought them 
together, their reasons seem, at first, sus-
pect. They talk about "vision" and a "strug-
gle for justice." "Suddenly, people have 
statted to see a vision of a better version of 
the University 
as 
possible," 
Carlos 
Aramayo, a member of GESo's coordinating 
committee, told me. "The University 
should be responsive to the community 
and high-minded. That's exactly the kind 
of public sphere a university should be, and 

that won't happen unless hospital workers 
are organized, unless clergymen are orga-
nized, unless janitors are organized, unless 
students are organized, unless the commu-
nity is organized." 

This broad conception of community 
interest manifests itself in a variety of ways, 
many of which are a far cry from the tradi-
tional concerns of organized labor. Abbey 
Hudson, de facto head of the undergradu-
ate union, likes to point out that last April, 
when Local 34 was pamphleting tercenten-
nial weekend alumni gatherings, the flier it 
distributed at the culminating event-an 
afrernoon session headlined by the elder 
President Bush--deatt not with pay .scales 
or labor rights, but with financial aid. The 
highly publicized report this August about 
Yale's historical relationship with slave 
owners, authored by three GESO members, 
was also strongly supported by the unions. 

Antony Dugdale, one of the report's 
authors and a labor organizer, said, "This 
scholarship on slavery and the union each 
fit into a larger struggle. They're sides of the 
same coin, both part of the fight for justice 
in New Haven." 

Ultimately, though, the strategies and 
partnerships pursued by labor activists in 
New Haven are as pragmatic as they are 
idealistic. "It is in our self-interest to be 
mutually interested and go beyond narrow 
definitions," Chernoff said. Only united, 
organizers say, can they contend with an 
employer-Yale--which directly controls a 
quarter of New Haven's jobs and indiroctly 
controls an even larger portion (a fact 
which labor activists quote ad nauseam). 

One night in August, I joined three 
labor organizers, including a recent Yale 
graduate and a PHD student in Yale's histo-
ry department, at The Second Star of 
Jacob, a Pentecostal church in the predom-
inantly Latino Fair Haven neighborhood. 
The three began a PowerPoint presentation 
in Spanish on why, New Haven workers 
must unionize in front of xoo-some parish-
ioners, many of whom are employed by 
Yale and closely connected industries. The 
congregation chattered and shifred restless-
ly. I took this reaction as a lack of interest, 
an excuse for my own skepticism. Halfway 
through the presentation, the Yale graduate 
student offered her own testimonial, detail-
ing her reasons for wanting to unionize 
graduate teachers and attempting to con-
nect her plight to the plights of.custodians 
and dining hall workers. 

Ten minutes later, we walked out of 
the chapel. In the church lobby, we were 
stopped. Parishioners wanted to say thanks. 
To tell their stories. "You have blessed us by 
coming here," one said, in heavily accented 
English. Before we left, he insisted on giv-
ing each of us--even me-a hug. 

The incongruous alliance of workers 
and students and community members 
represents a new hope for a faltering 
national labor movement--one on which 
its continued relevance may depend. 

Organized labor has struggled to adapt to 
an economy in which service jobs now out-
number those in traditionally unionized 
manufacturing 
industries; 
nationally, 
union membership has plummeted to 13 
percent of the workforce, and leaders have 
struggled to replace an increasingly out-
moded model. A victory for labor at Yale 
will send shock waves around the nation. 

"If this model is successful-and it will 
be--it V(ill provide a real example for 
unions around the nation to follow," 
declared Nick Allen, an organizer with 
1199· 

On October 5, Yale will continue its 
tercentennial celebration with a final gala 
weekend, and the world will be watching. 
If Vinnie O'Brien and the new labor 
alliance have their way, headlines will be 
more about protest than pageantry- and a 
national movement will be on its way to 
revitalization. 
-Dani~l Kurtz-Ph~lan



**Title: Remorse**
**Author: Bmita Singh**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
THREE YALE PHD CANDIDATES published a 
report this summer, "Yale, Slavery and 
Abolition," which put together a number 
of unsurprising facts into a substantial case. 
The story was all over The New York Times. 
Eight of Yale's twelve residential colleges 
were named after former slave owners. 
Furthermore, Yale, like many northern 
institutions, was financially dependent on 
profits from slavery through the 18th and 
19th centuries. To Yale students, the name 
"Calhoun" may bring forth images of a 
quaint courtyard bordering Cross Campus, 
but outside the bounds of Chapel and 
Prospect streets it conjures up 
South Carolina's promi- _ 
nent slave owner, 
plantation mas-
ter, and senator 
John 
C. 
Calhoun-a man 
who 
ardently 
advocated 
the 
expansion of slavery 
throughout the nation. 

The debate on op-
ed pages has been cen-
tered on the philosophical 
idea of "presentism"-that 
is, to what extent modern 
critics, using contemporary 
standards, can judge the moral 
worth of decisions made in the 
past. The naming of residential col-
leges, however, poses a more histori-
cal and less philosophical question: 
How did the administration choose 
which Yale figures to honor? 

Morse College, named for telegraph 
inventor Samuel F. B. Morse, is another res-
idential college that honors a Yale alumnus 
who displayed zealous support for slavery. 
In 1955, Yale used a $2.5 million grant from 
John A Whitney, class of 1926, to purchase 
the land to build the eleventh and twelfth 
colleges. This forced three New Haven 
high schools to relocate, 
including 
Hillhouse High School, named for the 
prominent abolitionist, Yale graduate, and 
senator James Hillhouse. The colleges were 
built there between 1958 and 1962, after the 
university secured a $15 million grant from 
Paul Mellon, class of 1929. Seven and a half 
million of Mellon's grant was used for the 
construction, while the remaining $7.5 mil-
lion continues to fund educational pro-
grams, such as college seminars and the 
Mellon Forum, within all the residential 
colleges. 

So why is it that Morse and Stiles are 
not known as Whitney and Mellon? Both 
John A. Whitney and Paul Mellon were 
prominent Yale alumni; Whitney served as 
the publisher of the New York Herald 
Tribune as well as an ambassador to 
Britain 
under 
President 
Eisenhower. 
Mellon 
had 
a career 
at 
Yale 
marked by acade-
mic 
and 
extracurricular 
accomplishments 
already 
bestowed grants upon Yale that continue to 
fund academic programs to this day, 
including the Directed Studies program in 
the humanities. Upon acquiring the grant, 
Yale President A. Whitney Griswold, in a 
letter to Mellon, wrote that "no university 
in [his] knowledge has had so enlightened 
a benefactor." In fact, he has since become 
Yale's largest individual donor. 

A file of correspondence relating to 
proposed names for the two new colleges in 
Sterling Memorial Library's Manuscripts 
and Archives makes one allusion to Paul 
Mellon-a 
pamphlet 
for 
Residential Hall at St. John's College in 
Annapolis, Maryland, with a note penciled 
in, stating that Mellon was "not averse to 
the use of his name." (A residential 
hall at Harvard is also named for 
him.) Aside from that, the folder 
contains various other propos-
als for names. There was one 
from Betty Hotchkiss in 
1958, asking that the uni-
versity consider naming 
one of the new colleges in 
honor of her relative 
Noah Webster, creator of 
the first American dic-
tionary. That same year, 
the alumni director of 
the class of 1910 pro-
posed that one of the 
colleges be named Taft 
College in honor of 
President Taft and his 
son, the late Senator 
Bob Taft, class of 1910. 
Also contained in the 
file is a list of authors 
affiliated 
with Yale, 
including • 
James 
Fenimore Cooper, Sinclair 
Lewis, and Thornton Wilder, 
noting that many of these 
names seem "a bit too contem-
porary . . . too bad we don't have a 
wider selection in this field." 

The proposal that won the 
administration's approval was from 
Theodore Sizer, an alumnus who is now 
professor emeritus of education at Brown 
University. Written in a florid jade-green 
calligraphy, Sizer's letter to President 
Griswold asks, "What other graduate of the 
university has become the universal man? 
. . . What other Yale man has there been 
whose name has become a noun?" In a later 
letter, Sizer also wrote that the name 
"'Morse College' is euphonious." What the 
letter failed to mention is that Morse pub-
lished articles defending slavery as part of 
God's ordained plan and that he served as 
the president of two pro-slavery organiza-


tions, the American Society for the 
Promotion of National Unity and the 
Society for the Diffusion of Political 
Knowledge. 

Would simply naming one of Yale's 
residential colleges after its donor be too 
simple? In naming a residential college 
"Mellon College," perhaps Yale felt that it 
would discount its heritage and tradition-
the tombs of its societies and the acid-
washed stone facades of its colleges. Paul 
Mellon's gift of $15 million, however, was 
not just for the construction of traditional 
undergraduate residences-it was for the 
development of a novel educational system. 
In a letter written to President Griswold in 
1958, Mellon wrote that his grant "may also 
serve as a stimulus to other donors and to 
other colleges to keep liberal education lib-
eral!" Griswold echoed the thoughts of 
Mellon when he wrote that higher educa-
tion has "put a premium on the residential 
college as a means of cultivating and refin-
ing students in moral and aesthetic terms." 
Quoting Sir Lawrence Johns, Griswold 
defined the purpose of the residential col-
lege to be "a miniature of what a civilized 
western community should provide for us 
all." 

While Yale let tradition pervade its 
nomenclature, it implemented an innova-
tive system of education in the US. It is in 
this sense that the question of "presentism" 
may very well be overshadowed by the 
question of historical process. That colleges 
bearing the names of slaveholders were cre-
ated with the intention of fostering a liber-
al education can be viewed as simply a lack 
of historical perspective and not a lack of 
morality. Perhaps the irony of tradition lies 
here: To view the residential colleges' 
names as symbols of Yale's morality is to 
become slave to the same burden of tradi-
tion to which the university's previous 
administrations succumbed. 

-Bmita Singh 
SEPTEMBER 7, 2001


**Title: Angelo Reyes: Fair Haven's Renegade Rebuilder**
**Author: [Author not specified]**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
IO 
~, 0 ne night in 1994, Angelo Reyes watched 
a gunfight play out only yards from the 
dilapidated house on Peck Alley that he had just bought 
and renovated for his family. A buller hole marks the sid-
ing as a reminder. "I was scared for my daughter," says 
Reyes. "I was aggravated." The next day, he dumped 
twelve tons of dirt in the alleyway, retained his new front 
yard with a wall of concrete blocks, and stretched a chain-
link fence across the other side. People objected. Drug deal-
ers cur through his fence. The city wanted him arrested. But 
Reyes was determined. "I fought with the people ... In the 
end, they just gave up, because I wasn't going to hear it. This 
was nor going to be a shooting gallery anymore ... I worked 
a little backwards. I worked from anger, and I just did it." 
Standing in his front yard, Reyes describes the first project 
he completed through a method he pioneered in Fair 
Haven, a poor Latino neighborhood in Ne-w Haven. "They 
call it 'Angelo Domain,"' he jokes. 


Reyes knows about working backwards. In a sense, 
he's been working backwards his whole life. A self-pro-
claimed "private developer," he operates a laundromat, 
purchases and renovates run-down houses, and origi-
nates loans for first-rime home buyers from his neigh-
borhood. Many of those buyers have bad credit or no 
credit at all when they come to him; they are the sort of 
people shunned by banks and mortgage brokers. "Angelo 
works at the margins: in a housing marker that people say 
doesn't work, with prospective homeowners who often have 
lousy credit, in a neighborhood that people say is impossible 
to get anything done in," says Paul Wessel, a Neighborhood 
Specialist for Fair Haven at New Haven's Livable City 
Initiative (LCI). What makes his work all the more striking is 
that Reyes began it while on supervised release from federal 
prison. 


In 1992, he was convicted of drug trafficking and conspiracy. 
The sale of one ounce of cocaine and his refusal to cooperate with 
federal prosecutors earned him 57 months behind bars. ''I'm a late 
bloomer," Reyes says, "but I'm here and I'm strong. I'm here in Fair 
Haven, and I see others who are late bloomers. I think I can help." 
He's working backwards still, and changing Fair Haven for the better. 
But he's doing it Fair Haven's way. 
THE NEW jouRNAL 


A 
day ofte, h~ :6ili binhday. Angelo Reye.< <old m• ru, ur. 
'l.story. By the time he turned nine, his family life was crum-
bling. His parents separated, and Reyes worked a number of jobs to 
help support his mother and siblings. "I grew up in a neighborhood 
... where you woke up to it that a little burglary doesn't hurt any-
one, that selling drugs is OK because you have to do what you have 
to do," Reyes says. By 13, he had turned to selling cocaine. With 
selling came using. Soon, though, the physical effects of addiction 
opened his eyes. "I started recognizing who I was, and it was ugly," 
Reyes says. "I tried to make change. I stopped partying when I was 
suddenly coughing up blood, when I couldn't smell anything 
because of my sinuses. I would still sell, though, and I'd be saying 
J\11 right, but this stuff will kill you.'" 


A federal sting operation finally nailed Reyes. A friend and fel-
low dealer from East Haven whom Reyes had regularly supplied was 
apprehended. The friend informed on him and conducted a deal 
with him while wearing a wiretap. Reyes spent nearly five years in 
prison. He now says, "It cost a lot of people--it cost my son," refer-
ring to his first child, fathered at age 19. "I am full of regret that I 
can't spend the moments. But I tell myself that this was a process 
for me to be whoever I am now. So I lost a few years to gain a life-
time." 


Despite his initial refusal to cooperate with prosecutors, Reyes 
proved to be a model prisoner, says Vicky Stackpole-Adams of the 
U.S. Federal Probation Office. Once, left behind at a worksite out-
side the prison grounds, Reyes made the choice to walk back to his 
cell. "[People I passed] were like, 'What the hell are you doing?' I 
was like 'I'm walking back to prison.' But I was comfortable with 
my sentence. I was comfortable that I had to do this and get it over 
with." 


Released under supervision, Reyes got a job and slowly began 
to rebuild his life. "Here I am, 36 years old, and I'm finally doing 
what I should have been doing at 13 ... It took me a while to look 
in that mirror and say 'You're Angelo Reyes, I forgive you, go on.'" 
lJ e has gone on, remapping Fair Haven in the process. 


P Buildings are razed, boundaries redrawn and properties 
seized, all by right of "Angelo Domain." I met up with Reyes 
for a tour of his projects. We begin at 291 Uoyd Street, a house that 
stands out on a sueet where the others look as if they could only be 
inhabited by squatters or illegal immigrants, both commoh in Fair 
Haven. Here, work trucks crowd the driveway. A black man covered 
in a patina of plaster dust and sweat peeks through the window 
when I arrive. "I picked it up for a good price," Reyes explains, 
referring to the house he purchased at a foreclosure auction. "I did-
n't even look in there. But there was this hustler, selling drugs, an, 
uh ... a poacher, no, what do you call it?" "A squatter?" I suggest. 
S2PT£MBER 7' 2001 
"Yeah, a squatter ... Now, either I could go through the motions of 
the courthouse and yada yada, or I just say, 'Look, what do you 
need?' He told me $2,500 would get him out of there. I told him, 
'Twenty-five hundred dollars, and you don't get a dollar till you're 
out that door. And you can keep the locks.'" Inside, Reyes' work 
crew, composed of temporary workers from the neighborhood-
new immigrants, ex-cons, the disabled, and folks just down on their 
luck-are completing renovations. They redid the house from floor 
to ceiling, patching walls, reshaping rooms. Reyes plans to sell the 
place, at little profit to himself, to a 20-year-old woman with a child 
and a $400-a-week job--someone, he explains, whom every bank 
simply ignores. "But she just met a nice guy," he says, "and they 
want to take a chance. That's the type of people we need here." 


The other houses we visit are similar. At one on Exchange 
Street, Reyes split a neighboring abandoned lot with a stockade 
fence, claiming half for himself and half for the house next door. 
Both residents now enjoy backyards unusually spacious for Fair 
Haven. Another house, on Woolsey Street, was the first Reyes pur-
chased upon leaving prison. This was where he learned to work 
backwards. 


Reyes tells how he first learned the basics of buying and sel.ling 
houses in prison: not from any class, but from fellow inmates 
locked up for selling bad mortgages. As they detailed their scams, 
Reyes paid attention. "I listened, and I picked up the right pieces," 


he explains. Once out of jail, he applied for 
to eradicate the absentee landlordism that 
a loan to purchase and rehabilitate the 
has plagued Fair Haven for decades by 
J 
Woolsey Street house, but no bank would 
offering classes in the basics of home own-
lend to an ex-con. So Reyes borrowed pri-
ership, and more recently by purchasing, 
vately-at a usurious 15 percent interest 
renovating, and selling abandoned houses. 
rate-and set to work. Making payments 
However, Reyes' remedies are far more 
was tough, but he kept at it, establishing 
successful than the FHoc's. When asked 
his credit in the process. In a year, he qual-
how many of the 64 graduates of their pro-
ified for a bank loan and was able to refi-
gram now own homes, Welter is reluctant 
nance. He refinanced the house three times 
to give numbers. "It takes a little time," he 
in all, each time at a lower interest rate. "I 
explains. "I think in a year or so, we'll start 
went backwards in the system," he says, 
getting into double digits with folks who 
"but it showed that I can do it." 


For the first time in his life, Reyes 
owned something. "By owning, your voice 
is heard," he explains. "I don't agree with 
out-of-towners corriing 
" 
in . . . and just having 
the attitude that, 'We'll 
rent to anyone. We 
don't care if they kill 
themselves.' And that's 
exactly 
what 
we're 
doing [in Fair Haven). 
We're 
killing 
our-
selves." 
Wessel 
explained 
further, 
"There's an old anar-
chist maxim: Property 
is theft ... Home own-
ership is abo~t build-
ing equity. When you 
rent, you're paying off 
someone else's mort-
gage. When you own, A 
your monthly payments 
are about building your net worth." 


Reyes soon got the idea to help his 
neighbors do as he had done and work 
towards owning homes. "Fair Haven is set 
up with a lot of people with bad credit, so 
how do you get [them] the opportunity to 
own? ... The same program that I did with 
myself, I'm doing with these people," he 
says. This is the genius of Angelo Reyes: By 
securing high-interest loans for homebuy-
ers, he allows them to build credit while 
owning their homes. The process demands 
hard work and sacrifice, but Reyes himself 
is an example of what can be done. 


But Reyes has competition. The Fair 
Haven Development Corporation (FHDC), 
a private, non-profit organi2ation, has a 
mission similar to Angelo's own, as 
described by its director, James R. Welter 
u: "to provide housing and community 
building services to the people of Fair 
Haven." Founded in 1994, the FHDC works 
have gone through our class and bought 
their own homes ... Most folks don't under-
stand how long it takes . . . It's not like 
going down to the grocery and buying a 
gallon of milk." For now, 
five graduates are "in the 
process" 
of 
buying 
homes-four in neigh-
borhoods outside Fair 
Haven. Out of prison 
since 1997, Reyes, in 
contrast, 
has already 
helped over 
50 Fair 
Haven residents pur-
chase their own homes. 


The 
difference 
between Reyes' approach 
and that of the FHDC and 
other similar city pro-
grams comes down to 
the issue of -credit. To 
actually buy a home 
with help from the FHDC 
or the city, you need to 
have good credit first. "Anyone can attend 
[our) class," Welter explains. "But the real-
iry is that not everyone is immediately 
ready to buy a home ... Quite frankly, peo-
ple have to be willing to do what they have 
to do to take care of credit problems." 


Reyes sees this attitude as part of the prob-
lem. "It takes too long for someone to fix 1 
their credit," he explains, "and the oppor-
tunities they have now won't be there once 
their credit is fixed." 


Reyes' status as a private entrepreneur 
and neighborhood insider is the key to his 
success. He can afford to bend rules and 
challenge statutes. He can share in the debt 
risks of his neighbors and spend out of his 
own pocket to back them up. He can fill in 
his alleyway and stand his ground. Having 
once considered running for city alderman, 
Reyes is nOV\' proud to be a private citizen. 
"I've been doing everything that [the alder-
men] were supposed to do. I have their 


**A Yale Student Markets Her DNA**
**Author: Jessica Cohen**
**Page number(s): 15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
EARLY LAST SPRING, a classified ad ran 
for rwo weeks in the Yale Daily 
N~s: Wanted: one egg. But this couldn't 
be just any egg. T he couple was picky, and, 
for that reason, was offering between 
$40,000 and $6o,ooo for the right egg 
from the right donor. 

I had a book as a child called "Where 
Did I Come From?" It offered a full bio-
logical explanation, in cartoons, of those 
sticky, awkward questions that curious 
tots ask. But the book is now out of 
date. Replacing it are books such as 
Mommy, Did I Grow In Your Tummy? 
The update "explains to children 
about all the ways babies can come 
into the world . . . it provides 
descriptions of egg donors, sur-
rogacy 
and 
adoption." 
When 
conception 
doesn't occur in the 
natural way, it 
becomes very 
complicated. 
Once all par-
ties have been 
accounted 
for-includ-
ing eggdonors, 
sperm donors, 
surrogate 
mothers, and the paying couple--five peo-
ple can be involved with the conception, 
carrying, delivery, and rearing of the child. 
No wonder there is a new book. 

The prospective parents' choice to 
advertise in the N~~and the five-figure 
compensation-immediately 
suggested 
that they were in the market for an egg of a 
certain standard. Their demands weren't for 
just any Ivy Leaguer. The specifications 
were as follows: over 5'7", preferably 
blonde, of Jewish heritage, athletic, and a 
minimum 1500 SAT score. I was curious, 
and I fit all the criteria except the SAT score. 
So I emailed Michelle and David and asked 
for more information about the process 
and how important the SAT minimum real-
ly was to them. From there, I launched into 
one of the strangest email relationships I've 
ever had. 

DONATING AN EGG is neither simple 
nor painless. The process takes a few 
weeks. First, the donor and the woman 
who will carry the child must coordinate 
their menstrual cycles. The donor takes 
birth control pills, followed by a shot of 
Depo-Lupron, to bring her cycle in synch 
with that of the surrogate. Synchrony can 
typically be achieved simply by having two 
women live together, but in the 
world of egg donation such low-tech, time-
intensive methods are frowned upon. 

After altering her cycle, the donor 
must enhance her egg supply with fertility 
drugs in the same way an infertile woman 
does when trying to conceive. Shots of a 
common fertility drug such as Follistim or 
Fertinex are administered for seven to 
eleven days to stimulate the release of an 
abnormally large number of egg-contain-
ing follicles. During this time, the donor 
must give blood every other day before 9AM 
so doctors can monitor hormone levels. 
Thirty-six hours before retrieyal day, a shot 
of HCG (profasi) is administered to prevent 
the eggs from being released on their own 
schedule before they are ready for pick-up. 
The actual retrieval happens while the 
donor is under anaesthetic. The tool is a 
needle and the product, with luck, is five to 
ten follicles. Egg Donation Inc., an "egg 
bank," explained that doctors take that 
many because "not every follicle will con-
tain an egg, and not all eggs will be good. 
Some will be immature and some over-
ripe." 

I later spoke with Sherry T, one of the 
founders of Surrogate Mothers Online, a 
two-time donor and also the mother of rwo 
of her "own" children. She 
found donating 


**Title: Egg Donor**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"an extremely rewarding" experience. She 
explained co me that, once in a while, 
something can go wrong, and I braced 
myself for the fine print. On very rare 
occasions, hyperstimulation of the 
ovaries can occur and the donor 
is 
hospitalized 
until 
the 
ovaries return to normal. In 
even rarer cases, 
ovaries rupture, result-
ing in 
permanent 
infertility or possi-
bly even death. "I 
must stress that 
this is very 
rare," Sherry assured me. "I had two won-
derful experiences. The second time I even 
stayed awake to help the doctor count how 
many eggs he retrieved." 

David responded quickly to my email, 
only hours after I'd sent it. He told me 
nothing about himself or his wife and hard-
ly mentioned the egg-donation process. 
The bulk of the email was a strange 
description of a cartoon, followed by a 
request for photos of me. The cartoon, he 
wrote, "is a scene with a couple getting 
married: he a nerd and she a great beauty. 
They are kvelling about their future child 
with his brains and her good looks. The 
next panel shows a nerdy looking baby 
thinlcing empty thoughts." This introduc-
tion baffied me. Maybe this guy was a nerd 
hoping to avoid the same kind of disaster, 
or maybe he was simply trying to make 
light of the fact that he was potentially 
going to pay me more than a year ofYale's 
tuition for my egg. I thanked him for the 
email and ~ked once again about egg 
donation, their criteria, and how to 
send my pictures. 

The next email was more 
direct and in worse taste. David 
let me know that they were 
flexible on most criteria but 
that his wife "is a real Nazi 
on: donor looks and 
donor health history." 
He promised 
to 
return my photos, 
so I sent him a 
strange assorr-
ment of pic-
tures-dorm 
room pictures, the 
kind that every Yalie 
has lying around. Now 
they were evidence. I 
would soon learn what this 
konymous couple somewhere 
in the us thought about my 
genetic material. 


INFERTILITY IS NOT A modern problem, 
but it has created a modern industry. 
One in six American couples is infertile, 
and more than 50 percent of those couples 
contribute to the $2 billion-a-year fertility 
industry. The Federal Trade Commission 
even publishes a booklet to assist prospec-
tive parents in sifting their options. I 
empathize with women who cannot use 
their own eggs to have a child. It must be a 
sober awakening for those who have always 
dreamed of raising their own f.unily. But 
when faced with this problem, prospective 
parents' options depend greatly upon their 
wealth. All over the world, women who 
can't have children must simply accept the 
fact and find other roles in society. Here in 
the us, people's means dictate their ability 
to have their own child and determine how 
closely that child will resemble the one they 
might have had-or the one they dream of 
having. 

On the website of Egg Donation Inc., 
there is a whole database of potential genet-
ic material. In order to access the list of 300 
potential donors, interested parties must 
call the company and requ~st. the password 
for the month. Once I'd given the recep-
tionist on the phone my name and address, 
she told me the password for August: col-
orful. I hung up and entered the database. 
Potential parents can search for a variety of 
features, narrowing the pool as much as 
they like. "Select Egg Donor Criteria: 
Ethnic Origin, Religion of Birth, State, 
Hair Color, Eye Color, Height." In this 
way, couples find women willing to help 
them create the child of their dreams. I 
entered the characteristics that Michelle 
and David were looking for into the data-
base and found four potential donors. 
None of them had college degrees. 
The standard compensation for an egg 
from Egg Donation Inc. is between $2,000 
and $3,500, and "additional funds are 
offered to donors that have advanced 
degrees or are of Asian or Jewish decent." 
THE NEW JouRNAL 


**Title: Egg Donor (Continued)**
**Page number(s): 17**

This significantly s~aller compensation, I 
learned, affects the nature of the clients and 
donors involved. Couples searching for an 
egg at Egg Donation Inc. can be picky, but 
not as demanding as couples advertising in 
the News. Is it fair that a couple can pay for 
a high-standard egg and have that lcind of 
child? Maybe it is simply an update of 
Social Darwinism. Modern success is large-
ly dependent on finances, so why shouldn't 
the most successful couple have access to 
the most successful, most expensive eggs? 
Of course, as David pointed out in his first 
email, input does not always translate per-
fectly into output-the donor's potentially 
desirable characteristics may never be man-
ifest in the child. 

If a couple chooses not to find their 
egg through an agency, they must do so 
independently. A search on the Internet 
turned up a few sites like Surrogate 
Mothers Online where donors and would-
be parents can post classified ads. There 
were more than 500 posted dassifieds on 
the site. A whole marketplace, an eBay for 

"Hi! My name is Kimberly," read one 
of the ads. "I am 24 years old, 5'n" with 
blonde hair and green eyes. I previously 
donated eggs and the couple was blessed 
with BIG twin boys! The doctor told me I 
have perky ovaries! ... The doctor told me I 
had the most perfect eggs he had ever 
seen." There were links to this woman's 
photographs as well as an email address. 
Parents on the site offered "competitive" 
rates, generally between $5,000 and 
$10,000 for donors who fit their design. 


ONE AFTERNOON THIS SUMMER, on a 
highway in rural Minnesota, a baby's 
face smiled down at me from a billboard. 
The sign read, in huge letters, "I am a 
designer baby." The phrase "designer baby" 
threw me for a loop. Snippets of conversa-
tions by future parents searching through 
J.Crew catalogs of possible children began 
SEPTEMBER 7· 2001 
to play in my head. "Yes, we'd like item 
9JIOI7K, the blonde, long-legged genius ... 
She's on sale this week, right?" 

About a week after I sent the pictures 
I received a third email. "Got the pictures, 
you look perfect. I can't say this with any 
authority, that is my wife's department. 
She's been known to disregard a young 
woman based on cheekbones, hair, nose, 
you name it. I think you have the right 
looks but I'll have to wait until she gets 
"The doctor 
told me I have 
perky ovaries/ 
The doctor told 
me I had the 
most perfect 
eggs he had 
ever seen!' 
back in town to subject them to her judg-
ment." He then shifted the focus to my 
brain. "My department is the SAT scores. 
Can you tell me more about your academ--
ic performance? What are you talcing at 
Yale? What high school did you attend? Do 
you have any idea what you want to do?" I 
was overwhelmed. The whole thing seemed 
like a joke. I dutifully answered his ques-
tions, explaining that I was from a no-
name high school in the Midwest, I could-
n't do math or science, and I hadn't 
planned my summer, let alone the rest of 
my life . . 

Michelle and David now had my edu-
cational stats as well as my photos. They 
were examining my credentials and trying 
to imagine their child. If I was accepted, a 
harvest of my eggs would be fertilized by 
the frozen semen of the author of the dis-
turbing emails I had received. A few 
embryos would be implanted, a few would 
be frozen, and then I would be out of the 
picture forever. Would these embryos from 
my egg grow to be this couple's dream 
child? 

THE MODERN EMBRYO has been frozen, 
I ;tolen, aborted, researched and deliv-
ered weeks early along with five or six 
instant siblings. This summer was full of 
embryo news. The first big story was 
President Bush's deliberations on stem-cell 
research. The embryos available for genetic 
research include those frozen by fertility 
clinics for later use by couples using in vitro 
fertilization. 

Embryos took the spotlight again 
when Helen Beasley, a surrogate mother 
from Shrewsbury, England, decided to sue 
a San Francisco couple for the parenting 
rights to the twin fetuses she is carrying. 
The couple and Beasley had signed a con-
tract for $20,000 for one child created 
from a donated egg and the father's sperm, 
co be carried by Beasley. The contract also 
called for selective reduction-the abortion 
of any extra embryos-by the twelfth 
week. The problem arose when Beasley dis-
covered she was carrying twins in the 13th 
week. Fearing for her own health and 
objecting to the abortion of such highly-
developed fetuses, she refused to end her 
pregnancy. She is suing for parental rights, 
which would allow her co put the babies up 
for adoption. She is also seelcing the origi-
nal financial compensation promised to her 
by the couple with which she contracted. 
They do not want the children. And yet, 
they have rights to the genetic makeup; 
Beasley is simply the vessel. The case is only 
one of a multitude spawned by modern fer-
tility processes. On August 15, Th~ N~ 
York Times reported that a woman in New 
York was suing for ~e rights to the 
Continued on pag~ 28 
17


--- Page 18 ---



**Title: When East Asian immigrants tried to start a business in an all-black neighborhood, racial politics undermined the American Dream**
**Author: Sara Hirschhorn**
**Page number(s): 20-21, 29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
NESTLED IN THE HEART of New Haven's thriving Elm Haven 
development area, Di.xwell Plaza remains vacant for the sixth year 
in a row. In contrast to the repaired and restored surrounding build-
ings, the squat concrete edifice at 156 Dixwell Avenue is a reminder 
of harder times for one of New Haven's oldest neighborhoods. 
Though the plaza was originally envisioned as a bustling commer-
cial center, not a single customer in the predominantly African-
American Dixwell coinmunity has been. served there in years. But 
last September, it seemed that would change. In their own attempt 
at the American dream, Cambodian immigrants Cong and May 
Lim scraped together enough money to buy the building and open 
a superette and laundromat. The purchase would provide needed 
services to Di.xwell while giving the Lims a chance at achieving 
financial independence. It seemed like the perfect parmership. 
Only the Lims missed something. It was almost as if there were a 
sign in the storefront window: Asian-Americans need not inquire. 
While driving down Dixwell Avenue one morning last 
September, Mrs. Lim noticed the vacant Oi.xwell Plaza, last occu-
pied by a ValuMart that declared bankruptcy in 1996. Thinking that 
the location might be ideal for a family-run grocery and laundro-
mat, she called City Hall. One-hundred fifty-six Dixwell, which the 
city bought from First Union Bank in 1999, was now in the hands 
of the Livable City Initiative (LCI), a program created by the Mayor 
in 1996 to facilitate property transfers and community develop-
ment. Though others had expressed interest in the property, only 
the Lims were able to put down an offer. In September 2000, the 
Lirns paid the city a ten percent deposit of $2o,ooo. Nevertheless, 
the Lims' petition to LCI was still subject to a hearing and approval 
by the New Haven Board of Aldermen. All seemed to go well for


the first few months-but little did the Lims know that there was a 
maelstrom gathering blocks away in the aldermanic chambers on 
Church street. 

Behind the controversy that continues to polarize the Board of 
Aldermen is Alderman Willie Greene of Newhallville, whose ward 
adjoins the Dixwell neighborhood, but does not include the plaza 
itself An outspoken activist for community development, Greene 
also sits on the LCI advisory board. The first the board saw of the 
Lim deal was a signed conttact and deposit. Greene immediately 
raised objections to the Lims' purchase, claiming that the property 
had not been aggressively marketea to African-American business-
people. However, LCI continued to back the deal over the next ten 
months as it proceeded to the final stage of negotiation, subject to 
a vote of approval by the Board of Aldermen. 

Which was no mere formality. After nearly ten months, the 
Lims' proposal fmally came before the Board of Aldermeh on May 
21. Yet, in less than two hours, the family found the item tabled and 
their hopes indefinitely delayed. Though two other aldermen joined 
Greene's petition, only he spoke publicly in opposition. To May 
Lim, the motion signified one important fact: namely, that she and 
her husband were unwanted in Dixwell. She explained, "Mr. 
Greene [essentially] said they don't sell to me. They don't want 
Asian people." 

At a public hearing later in the summer Greene remained in 
opposition to the Lims' purchase, while officials of LCI, Oixwell 
Alderman Jelani Lawson, a representative of the Oixwell Merchants 
and Professionals Association, and a local African-American busi-
nessman spoke in favor of the Lirns' purchase. However, in closed 
meetings with city officials, everyone began to feel the strain of a 
process that had dragged on too long. Shortly before the Board of 
Aldermen meeting slated for August 6, the Lims threw up their 
hands and withdrew their deposit with the city for 156 Dixwell. 

Yet, the issue hadn't been formally closed. According to the 
minutes of the August 6 meeting, while Alderman Lawson attempt-
ed to end discussion by noting that the Lims had withdrawn their 
offer "after the political hullabaloo that erupted in the neighbor-
hood surrounding this issue," Alderman Greene prolonged the con-
versation. "I want to make this very clear for the record my opposi-
tion to this particular sale," Greene said and outlined his objections 
for the board. He argued that the African-American community 
was not "properly informed" and "that's where my opposition 
came." "While the sale of the market, I really believe, would have 
been good for the Lims and good for Dixwell Plaza," he explained, 
"personally, I think this was an affront to the black community." He 
repeated that his objections were not against the Lims and said, 
"Again, I am very sadden[ed] that the Lims did pull out, but I 
would never apologize for standing up in my community and talk-
ing about building an economic base. And if doing that makes me 
a racist, well then I'm the biggest racist that ever did walk on two 
feet." 

T HESE DAYS, everyone involved with the Lims is talking about 
'process', thanks to Alderman Greene. Reflecting on the 1 0-month 
struggle, Alderman Lawson commented that it was the very "fact 
that there was a process that led to the Lims withdrawing." If the 
Lims' purchase was as "abnormally simple from a process point of 
view," as Mickey Mercer of the city's Office of Legislative Services 
claims, what, then, went wrong? 

Most likely, it is because Alderman Greene and LCI labor under 
rwo different definitions of process. To Greene, process means the 
participation of his own Dixwell community. And to LCI, process 
ultimately is the best strategy for economic development. 

LCI and the city have both publicly backed the Lims. Lei's 
Executive Director Regina Winters claims that "we supported their 
application from the beginning." Deputy Director Nick Tomeo, 
who has been struggling to dispose of the unwanted property for 
years, defends the process employed by LCI. Addressing Greene's 
objections, Tomeo explained that the building was marketed under 
a "negotiated sale provision," meaning that the district alderman 
(Lawson), the Dixwell Management team, the Dixwell Merchants 
Association, Yale's property czar Bruce Alexander, and other inter-
ested parries were all informed of the impending deal. Tomeo calls 
the process "fair and open" and insists that "[whatever] takes place 
afterwards ... one can't blame the city." 

Dixwell Plaza was unwanted and vacant for years. Though the 
city invested hundreds of thousands of dollars in the redevelopment 
of Elm Haven throughout the early 1990S, resources grew tight at 
the end of the decade and progress lagged in the Dix:well neighbor-
hood. Dix:well Plaza, with its history of bankruptcy and back taxes, 
was considered a near lost cause. By marketing 156 Dix:well under 
the 'negotiated sale' clause--which is to say not publicly marketing 
the building at all with the exception of a small poster in the win-
dow-LCI avoided expenses and crossed its fingers that someone 
would make an offer. Greene is right in saying that the process was-
n't as open as it could have been. But the "lack of competitiveness" 
was likely because no one was seriously interested in competing. 
When the Lims came with a pledge to try their best to make their

Continued on page 29 


**Title: The Grand Tour**
**Author: Anya Kamenetz**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
few weeks ago I was having 
in Oaxaca with a 
art student, a Polish hardcore bassist, ' 
and an' lta)jan experimental mime dancer (this is not a joke). Four young bohemians, four native languages, and yet ' 
we managed to have a political discussion. This consisted mainly of vehement agreement about the evils of gloha/izacion. • ~ 
Despite the gentle irony, I felt hip; I was a global citizen that day. 

I don't think I'm alone in this experience. Seemingly everyone I talk co at Yale has just come back from the ends of the earth, .. 
and is headed there again. Of the last twelve months, I've spent a total of two in Mexico, Moscow, Morocco, and Costa Rica. This sum-
mer, some of my closest friends were in Egypt, China, Germany, Sicily, Russia, Bocswana, Cuba, and Lithuania. 
The Grand Tour is a rice of passage about as old as Yale itself. In the 18th century, it denoted well-off young Brits scrolling through the , 
Piazza Di Spagna, and by the 19th, American students were flocking to the venerated German universities in Heidelberg or Gottingen, taking 
time off to tour the Louvre or bicycle through Scotland. The most adventurous might have made it as far as Egypt or the Holy Land. Eighteen 
out of 130 members of Yale's class of 1886 headed overseas after graduation. 

As recently as five years ago, the uadition of foreign study was languishing at Yale. Only three percent of the junior class spent a semester abroad 
in 1996. Today, that number has doubled, and a survey last spring indicated chat almost a fifth of the senior class had spent part of their education 
abroad, when summers, semesters, and leaves of absence were considered. And the countries explored are getting more exotic. "We definitely have 
seen larger numbers of students uave!Hng to China, Japan, and Korea, because of the Light Fellowship," which pays for a summer or full year of 
Ease Asian language study, says Karyn Jones, Study Abroad Advisor of the International Education and Fellowship Programs office. "More students 
are choosing Central and South America, Buenos Aires and Santiago, for Spanish study, instead of the obvious Spain. And Africa~ all of Africa, is 
getting more popular." 

Why, in an age when everything is getting closer together, do people want co get farther away? Partly because travelling is just what modem 
people do. In his 1975 book The Tourist: A New Theory of the Leisure Class, sociologist Dean MacCanneU posited the tourist as the epitome of the 
modern man. Tourism shares with modernity an extreme commodification of experience ("Five Nights! Six Days! $595!") and a search for authen-
ticity. Sightseeing may also be an expression of the modern desire to impose order on a chaotic world. Foe a tourist, a city like Paris or Marrakech 
is easily parsed into "must-sees" and "must-avoids," a simplification that the lifetime resident could never enjoy. Sightseeing, MacCanneU writes, "is 
uniquely well-suited among leisure alternatives co draw the tourist into a relationship with the modern social totality." In other words, we go to see 
-·nnrhi•r><r. to determine what "everything" is, and to see how we relate to everything. 

In the 1970s, perhaps, authenticity came more easily. Tripping was more than an expression; people still believed in the possibility of drop-
out of society. And hippie backpackers, tourist attractions themselves back in Haight-Ashbury, were blazing a new kind of path from Bali 
in Indonesia to Goa in India. These days, students have to go a little farther on their journeys of self-discovery co avoid following in their • 
footsteps. 

But the latitudes that backpackers uek across these days are often depressingly similar. In all the countries I've visited, there are #' 
street markets and upsetting numbers of homeless people. There are many more houses of worship than at home, and musicians II 
on the streets. There are strange breakfast foods, and Coca-Cola in bottles, served without ice. There are the ubiquitous #' 
cafes--connections co the home we're crying to leave behind. Not only that, but we all do pretty much the 11 


• 
., • same things with our ti;e. Whether we are volunteers or students, we are 
playing "tourist." We take our pic-
tures, practice our languages, write in our journals while sitting in a little cafe at the edge of the plaza, go for hikes in 
• 11 the desert and the ruins and the mountains and the waterfalls. We complain about all the other tourists. 

Going through our paces in that single country called Abroad, we are, of course, looking to be broadened. Within limits. 
We leave our own communities to join the global communiry, always knowing that the experience will have an ending. that we will 
come home again. But one night a few weeks ago, sitting at che computer in that youth hostel in Oaxaca, Mexico, I read that Narasha 
Smalls, a friend of mine from freshman year, had disappeared in South Africa. 

The Hartford Courant article in the email raised more questions than it provided answers. Natasha abducted? Placed in a mental insti-
tution against her:. ~ill? Drugged? This was a travel experience without a safety net. Not knowing anyone at the hostel, I confided mY worries in 
my bunkmate Yad; a girl uaveUing the world after getting out of the Israeli atmy. She told me about her two years stationed in Eilat while her 
boyfriend was in skirmishes at the Lebanese border, at the other end of the country. There would be unnamed casualties, the phones would go out, 
and she would have no idea where he was, or if he was safe. But at least the cwo of them were fellow soldiers, not particles floating about in the 
stratosphere. 

When I first heard the news, I was hundreds of miles away from anyone I knew, communicating in halting Spanish. I like to see the world as 
a smorgasbord of poisibilities, but suddenly it seemed like a frightening place. I like to think of myself as a proud member of many intersecting 
communities, but suddenly I felt alone. In my thoughts I rebelled against the very idea of community. Much is said in its praise, but here was a ter-
rible drawback-your vulnerability to loss is extended as wide as the circle you join. I never met Suzanne Jovin, but when she was murdered in 1998 
I lost a member of my college, and I shared in the grief of my master, my dean, and the students and faculry who knew her. Sophomore year, my 
window in Davenport's back courtyard looked out on her small memorial plaque under a tree. 

Now 1-with all of Yale--was missing Narasha. There's nothing to say when someone is missing. Consolations ate casteless. You have to hold 
your breath, and sometimes your tongue, and hope. When I came back to school the next week, everyone knew. Her face was up on fliers all over 
New Haven, just like Suzanne's face had been. There was a vigil planned for her August 23 at the Afro-American Cenrer. But chat was the day 
Narasha came back. She called her mother from Johannesburg, and asked her to come take her home. 

This incident has me worried, especially because I've taken the first few steps down the road ro Kyrgyzstan, one of the smaller former Soviet, 
independent, Old Silk Road nations. Whar began as a wild whim last May has taken root and spread leaves over the summer. This time next 
after a gantlet of interviews and miles of red tape, I just might find myself the recipient of a government grant, working on a journalism 
in the capital city of Bishkek, which I imagine as turreted. Why am I drawn to this country, whose name I didn't know four months 
My patents want to know, desperately. limbuktu or Karhmandu would be fine with them, but this is going a little roo far. 
1 could summon up a hosr of socially acceptable reasons, which is, coincidentally, what the application requires. Bur maybe it's just 
an extreme reaction to graduation, a Grand Tour for the new century. I want to forge a meaningfully unique identity out there in 
the post-Stalinist muck. I want to come face-to-face with myself, and escape aU previous expectations. It strikes me that these are 
' 
some of the same reasons I joined the Yale community, and I'm overcome by the same emotion: ambivalence. I wanted to ~ 
avoid playing a pre-defined role here, but I also wanted to find my plac.e in the world. And I'm still looking. 
li1J # 
. 
~· 
Anya Kamen~a seni/w 
Co/kg~. is 


**Title: School for Scandal**
**Author: Patrick Casey Pitts**
**Page number(s): 24**

T 
HE PAST YEAR OF TERCENTENNIAL CELEBRATION brought an abundance of new 
opportunities to read about Yale. Last September, Tom Perona gave Yale under-
graduates a fictionalized account of their lives in Jo~ Co/kg~. Art History students can 
now purchase a guide to each and every stained glass window on Yale's campus. 
Professor John Hollander edited a volume of poems by Yale alumni inspired by 
paintings in the Yale University Art Gallery. Someone is even publishing an in-
depth history of the Provost's Office. One group, however, was conspicuously left 
out. Filling the void, Yale French professor Catherine Cusset recently released her 
American debut, an English translation of her fictionalized account of Yale's pro-
fessors, Th~ Story of jan~. It joins recent novels by prominent authors David 
Lodge and Philip Roth in painting a portrait of modem academia. Though the 
central concern of each novel is very different, each provides a less than perfect 
image of the professional life. 

THE NEW JouRNAL 



**Title: The Story of jane**
**Author: Catherine Cusset**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I N Th( Story of jane, C ussET TELLS TH E TALE OF j ANE CooK, 
a young French professor at Devayne University, a prestigious 
institution on Long Island Sound with "the best French departmen t 
in the whole country." While Cusset does change proper names, the 
story's real-life setting becomes quickly apparent in light of Cusset's 
descriptions of Old Campus and the closing of Macy's off the Green 
in the early 1990~. And the name "Devayne University" conspicu-
ously echoes Yale~s. DeVane Lectures. 
Jane returns home one day to find an unsigned package wait-
ing at her door. Inside, she discovers a manuscript recounting her 
own life from the moment she started teaching at Devayne to the 
moment she picked up the package. From this point on, the book 
consists almost enrit:ely of the text of the manuscript. A picture of 
Jane's life within the university, and by extension the life of a Yale 
professor, emerges. 

This portrait is not a positive one for academics or anyone 
aspiring to the profession. The world inhabited by Devayne profes-
sors is competitive, unhappy, and, most of all, sexually frustrated. 
Nearly all the faculty ace getting divorced, having affairs, or living 
miserably alone, ofren all three simultaneously. Of the French 
department, Jane thinks, 
Poor them. All of them. Even those who had tenure at 
Devayne, this sign of highest achievement. T hey were 
like kids, arguing about trifles with terribly serious voic-
es. So little joy on their faces ... No wonder they were all 
desperately hanging on to the miserable little power left 
to them: torturing graduate students and refusing tenure 
to their young colleagues. 

One of Jane's friends explains to her, "This place makes you dry up 
inside like an old parchment and you lose your imagina~on and 
your senses. Not you especially, but anyone here ... One day you 
rnay buy one or two dogs too, and never leave Old Newport any-
more except for the M LA convention. Just like McGregor and 
Carrington: dead inside." 

Despite the bleak tone, the novel does provide Yale and New 
Haven-savvy readers a test of their geographic and gossip knowl-
edge. Sleuths can find a Naples-like pizza place, Connecticut Limo, 
and even AYA tours, which Jane describes as full of "eighty-five-year-
old men who were dripping saliva around her and who had all taken 
the Concorde to fly to Paris because it was barely more expensive 
and so much more convenient than a first-class ticket in a normal 
plane." The reader's game of assigning identities to the fictional pro-
fessors makes the book even more intriguing. Jane herself says, 
"Professors of literature these days wouldn't hesitat~ to sell their 
souls-or their colleagues' souls-just to get a few crumbs of Literary 
glory." As one reads Cusset's novel, one can't help but wonder 
whether this is exactly what Cusset has done. Her characters discuss 
their own attempts to fictionally adapt their lives, both portraying 
and commenting on her own Literary project. 

Overall, Cusset paints a salacious and depressing picture of 
American academia--one that no doubt greatly interested the 
French readers who first picked up the novel in I999· As the novel 
progresses, the literature professor in Cusset becomes more and 
more apparent, as she plays with the fine line between fiction and 
non-fiction. Those looking for a book true to Yale in every respect 
will be left scratching their heads and waiting for their brand-new 
history of the Provost's Office. 


**Title: Thinks ...**
**Author: David Lodge**
**Page number(s): 25-26**

T
hinks ... , THE NEW NOVEL BY DAVID LoDGE, a retired professor 
of English literature at the University of Birmingham, England, also 
portrays professors as abnormally prone to adultery. Nearly all of his 
characters seem to be sleeping with someone besides their signifi-
cant other. However, adultery merely serves as the backdrop to a 
more important drama, one that has gained steam over the last 
decade and engaged authors from Francis Crick to Tom Wolfe: the 
scientific and philosophical debate over the nature of consciousness. 

Lodge's novel, set at the University of Gloucester, dramatizes this 
debate through two characters: Helen Reed, a novelist spending the 
semester teaching a writing seminar, and Ralph Messenger, a lasciv-
ious married professor who heads the glamorous and well-funded 
center for cognitive science. Helen views consciousness as a tran-
scendent pact of oneself, the final realm free fr~m science; she 
believes it is the novelist's job to understand and represent con-


**Title: The Dying Animal**
**Author: Philip Roth**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

N
o one would accuse Philip Roth of 
avoiding the big questions in his 
twenty-odd novels. In The Dying Anima/, 
Roth brings .back David Kepesh, a horrify-
ing yet compelling character and the pro-
tagonist of two of Roth's previous books. 
Kepesh is an elderly professor of "practical 
criticism" who embraced the sexual revolu-
tion of the 1960s and remains totally com-
mitted to it despite his 62 years of age. He 
does delay his affairs with students until 
they have completed his course and he has 
turned in their grad~, a policy in place 
"since, back in the mid-eighties, the phone 
number of the sexual harassment hotline 
was first posted ourside [his] office door." 
The Dying Animal describes in first person 
Kepesh's own turbulent eight-year obses-
sion with a former student named 
Consuela, while also recounting many of 
his past exploits and describing the old 
man's torture of realizing that, 
all those body parts invisible up to 
now (kidneys, lungs, veins, arteries, 
brain, intestines, prostate, heart) are 
about to start making themselves 
distressingly apparent, while the 
organ most conspicuous through-
out your life is doomed to dwindle 
to insignificance. 

While Roth's ·professor is as lecherous 
as those in Cussers and Lodge's novels and 
may call to mind stories told around the 
courtyards of Yale, his book is the least 
concerned with academia per se. Instead, 
Roth chooses the character of a professor in 
order to chart the waters of contemporary 
sexual activity. Not only was Kepesh 
immersed in the energy of the 1960s as a 
student, but now as a professor he has more 
space to live by his own convictions than 
the professional world provides, as well as a 
continuing supply of liberated young 
women. 

In Kepesh, Roth conjures up a man 
driven by both an analytical mind and a 
carnal nature. While Kepesh is controlled 
by the basest desires, his understanding of 
the functioning of these urges borders on 
brilliance. Because Roth uses an academic 
setting chiefly to better convey non-acade-
mic questions such as those surrounding 
modern-day sex, his novel is the most com-
pelling of the three. Cusset and Lodge, as 
career academics, provide interesting 
images of the professorate and its peccadil-
loes, but Roth, a major literary figure, 
answers and asks questions that resonate 
OUtside of academia. 


Check out The New Journal's 
brand-new, 
redesigned website: 
www.yale.edu/tni.


i~ (}{]&lRaJ& 
J a p anese R e sta u ran t 
* BEST JAPANESE - Stac:e Runner-Up 
CT Magazin~ R~ackrs Choic~ PolL I998-.2oou 
* BEST JAPANESE - N~ 
Haven Councy 
CT Magazin~ R~.u:krs' Choice- PolL ¥998-.2oou
BestJ--& 
Best Sushi 
Dinner... Sunday- Thursday s:oo pm - 9:30 pm 
Friday - Saturday 4:45 pm - IO:Oo pm 
SlJ 
Lunch... 
Monc...lay - rriday. U:)O aJn - :;l.:)o pm 
S}Jj Catelif}o 
1206 Dixwell Avenue, Hamden 
C> 
203-28 ... -4542 
FAX. 203-407-1651 
www.


Fleu r de Lys 
990 State Street. New Havca 
Co.mer of State ....t Edwards 
Fresh Flowers, Plants, 
Distinctive Gifts, 
Customized Gih Trays, 
& Gourmet Baskets 
HoGn: Mollclay co Samnlay 
10:00 co 6.00 


**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Jessica Cohen**
**Page number(s): 28**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Continr«d from page 17 
embryos that she and her ex-husband had 
created and frozen a few years prior. A 
strange case for child custody lawyers. 

Ten years ago at the University of 
California Fertility Clinic, doctors took 
frozen embryos from successful patients 
and gave them to other couples without 
consent. Once discovered, the scam result-
ed in over a hundred prosecutions and a 
cohort of children whose biological parents 
didn't consent to their existence, and whose 
active parents, in legal terms, had stt>len 
them. The motivation for the doctors was 
money. And the parents simply wanted a 
baby. It is hard to say if throwing the 
embryos away would have been any better. 

Even if Michelle and David liked my 
stats, I knew I had. a long way to go before 
becoming an actual donor. The application 
on Egg Donors Inc. is 13 pages long-twice 
as long as Yale's entrance application. The 
first two pages cover the basics: looks, 
name, address. After that, they wanted to 
know if I'd ever filed for bankruptcy, ever 
had counseling, did I drink, what were my 
goals in life, tWO favorite books, my pater-
nal grandfather's height and weight, bob-
bies, what I would want the child to know 
about me, etc. They even threw in a few 
fill-in-the-blanks at the end: "I feel strong-
ly about_, I am sorry I did not __ , In 
ten years I want to be __ ." Not even my 
closest friends knew all these things about 
me. If Egg Donors Inc., offering less than 
one tenth of Michelle and David's com-
pensation, wanted all this information, 
who knows what data Michelle and David 
might want? 


H
I CHELLE AND DAVID were certainly 
trying hard. On one classified site, 
I carne across a request that was strangely 
familiar: "Loving family seeks exceptional 
egg donor with 1500 SAT, great looks, good 
family health history, Jewish heritage and 
athletic. Height 5'3"-5'9", 18-29. We will 
pay EXTREMELY well and will take care 
of all expenses. Hope to hear from you." 
The email address was David and 
Michelle's familiar AOL account. Theirs was 
the most demanding classified on the site, 
but also the only one that offered to pay 
"EXTREMELY well". 

I kept dreaming about all the things I 
could do with $5o,ooo. I had gone into the 
correspondence on a whim, the same way I 
sometimes buy a lottery ticket or enter a 
raffle. But soon, despite David's casual tone 
and the optimistic attitude of all the dassi-
fieds and information I read, I realized that 
this process was something of which I 
never wanted to be a part. I understand the 
desire for a child, even one who would 
resemble and fit in with the family. But 
once a couple starts choosing a few charac-
teristics, it is too easy to shoot for perfec-
tion, especially if you can afford it. The 
money might have changed my life for a 
while, but ultimately it would contribute 
to the creation of a life designed with too 
many expectations. 

After hours of thought I received the 
shortest email of the correspondence. The 
verdict on my pictures was in: "I showed 
the pies to my wife this AM. Personally I 
think you look great. She said Ho Hum." 
The email dosed with those two sim-
ple words. No goodbye,' no thanks for 
potentially having been the biological 
mother of their child. Nothing. I guess I 
didn't fit in their design; my genes weren't 
the right material for their chif d'orovre. So 
my eggs were rejected. I keep imagining the 
day when David and Michelle's child asks 
where he or she carne from. David will go 
off on a tangent about how hard they both 
worked on the whole thing. how much 
they spent, and how many pictures they 
looked at. The child will turn to them and 
say, "ho-hum." 

I8J 
Miche/k and David are pseudonyms. 
jessica Cohen, a junior in Timothy 
Dwight Colkge, is on the staff ojTNJ. 
THE NEW JoURNAL 


**Author: Sara Hirschhorn**
**Page number(s): 29**

Continued from page 21 
business and the neighborhood grow-and 
most importantly, a $20,500 profit for the 
city-LCI was eager ~ seal the deal. 

And so were Dixwell community lead-
ers. While Alderman Greene 
about investing in the city, feeling "afraid of 
the reaction of the African-American com-
munity." Alderman Lawson, himself 
African-American, said that "the deal was 
Yet perhaps there is an upside. Since 
the controversy erupted, numerous offers 
have been made on 156 Dixwell, partially 
due to changes in LCI marketing policies to 
claims ro represent the feelings "I would 
and best interests of all of New 
never apologize 
standing up in my community ... 
and if that makes me a racist, 
well then I'm the biggest racist 
that ever did walk on two feet" 
advertise the building in the 
for 
local press. Greene boasts that 
Haven in objecting to the 
process, none of the other com-
munity leaders seem tO mind. All 
were extremely interested in see-
ing 156 Dixwell occupied, period. 
Tomeo claims that "no one in 
the city thinks that [this) should 
have anything to do with race." 
Although Greene claims, "I don't care 
what color [they are), I just want an open, 
competitive process," his remarks intimate 
a deeper resentment. 
"Race should not 
play a part in this ... everyone should be on 
a level playing Geld," he mused, "but it's 
not a level playing field." 

In light of the Lims' case, a variety of 
local leaders feel that city policies for devel-
oping Dixwell have seriously failed to rec-
oncile interests in community-based devel-
opment 
and 
economic 
soundness. 
Recalling conversations in closed meetings 
with the Lims, New Haven Mayor John 
DeStefano acknowleged that as the process 
dragged on, me Lims seemed "nervous" 
SEPTEMBER 7' 2001 
stopped because [the Lims) didn't have 
enough melanin in their skin" and that the 
board's decision encouraged what he sees as 
"racism in its strictest form ... [the] denial 
of economic development." The Lims' 
lawyer Norbert Church argues that the case 
"is actionable ... [as there was] no legally 
sufficient reason" for denying their peti-
tion. The Lims' case highlights the difficul-
ty of arbitrating community interests and 
fiscal planning. It's likely that development 
for Dixwell will continue to mean invest-
ment from outside the community and 
dependency on those investors - unless the 
city comes forward with a more accessible 
process. 

at 
least 
16-20 
Mrican-
American entrepreneurs have 
approached him, and Torneo 
of LCI admits to having had 
discussions 
with 
several 
prospective buyers of undis-
closed race. The Lims, too, 
have found new hope and are 
working with LCI to find a 
new site for a small business. All seem opti-
mistic. Bur come this fall, Dixwell Plaza 
will be empty for the seventh year in a row. 

1111 
Sara Hirschhorn, a junior in jonathan 
Edwards Co!kge, is circulations and 
subscriptions manager ofTNJ. 


**Title: What's New at TYCO**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 32**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
What's New at TYCO
LARGE FORMAT FULL COLOR PRINTING
42" Width* x Unlimited Length!!
*printable area 40"
ENLARGE YQUR DIGITAL FILES TO CREATE:
• OUTDOOR AND INDOOR BANNERS
• I N -S T 0 R E ·A D V E R T I S I N G
• BACKDROPS & MURALS
• POSTERs ~.
·WINDOW DISPLAYS
• FRAMED ART
• PHOTO ENLARGEMENTS
• AND MORE
·

Serving the Greater New Haven Business and Academic Community Since 1971
Corporate Charge Accounts • Volume Discounts


