Publication date: 10/88
Volume 21, Issue 2

**Title: The Tyson/Ferrucci Election**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Without the nomination, Tyson decided to go ahead with the fight and petitioned to run against Ferrucci in a primary. She decidc::d to run as a matter of principle. Tyson felt that she deserved the job, and since she planned on retiring in four years, she felt she had nothing to lose. This pragmatic bent is evident in her campaign; she did not want to alienate any group so she left the issue of racism to the media. "We had trouble dealing with the "R" word," said Shirlee Taylor Haizlip, Tyson's campaign manager. "White people are uncomfortable dealing with the subject." 

While Tyson rallied for fairness, Ferrucci had difficulty deciding on a campaign issue. Shortly after the convention, the registrar disqualified hundreds of invalid signatures on Tyson's petition for a primary. Competence became the slogan of the Ferrucci campaign. Tyson herself dismisses the incident as something drummed up by the machine to discourage her from running. When that didn't work, Tyson claims that the Town Chairman offered her a civil service job that would pay ten or fifteen thousand dollars more than deputy registrar. Chairman Barbieri admits that he offered her another job, but says that money never entered into the arrangement. Barbieri and the machine did have reason to worry. Despite the forces working against Tyson, she lost by only 750 votes. 

This narrow election margin reveals some weaknesses in what was, under the operation of former Town Chairman Vinnie Mauro, a fine-tuned political machine. After seven years as town chairman, Mauro died in an auto accident last December. Barbieri, who had held the job from 1953 to 1978, seemed a logical replacement. For his early political work, he earned the title "the great conciliator." But Barbieri had some catching-up to do and was unable to fill Mauro's shoes. According to former mayor Logue, "Mauro over the years learned the value of inclusive politics. He came to the belief that inclusive politics were winning politics." Some see a power vacuum at the top of the party, which has allowed a recent breakdown in operations. 

The machine did churn out many votes for Ferrucci in Bellavista and the East Shore, its most reliable wards. Although the majority in these districts voted for Ferrucci, the turnout was a disappointment for Tommy Antarino, 17th Ward Co-chair. In his East Shore ward only 35 percent of the registered voters cast a ballot. "There was not any interest in that position," Antarino explained of the general apathy toward the low-profile post. And even in Ferrucci's home ward, Fair Haven, 38 percent of the registered voters came out. Ward Chair Abate compared coaxing voters to the polls with pulling teeth. While others attribute the close election to supporters' assumptions that Ferrucci would win, some were surprised by the results. 

The Tyson camp was equally surprised- because they didn't think they would do so well. Tyson even found a few votes where she didn't expect to. She gained some votes in a backlash against Mayor DiLieto's opposition to the opening of Ceasar's Department Store. And the voters in Ward One, who are mostly Yale students, came out 170 to 3 in favor of Tyson, reflecting not only support for Tyson but a protest against the change in polling location to off-campus. Although Rossi says the move had nothing to do with a fear of Tyson support in that ward, President of the College Democrats Carla Finkelstein has doubts. "The only reason we can think that the polling place was moved was to keep away Yale students," Finkelstein said. Sixty-five more students voted than in the mayor's primary. 

Finkelstein believes that turnout would never have been so high if the polling spot hadn't been changed. This voting windfall could not compensate for Tyson's limited support among the city's blacks. The average turnout in the city's seven predominantly black wards was only 16 percent. The record black turnout for Jesse Jackson in the city's Democratic presidential primary last spring provided the Tyson campaign with an example of what they might accomplish. 

The high profile of the Tyson/Ferrucci election and the media play on the issue of racism also made Tyson supporters think that they might receive a higher turnout than usual, especially in the black wards. 

Mayhew, Co-chair of the 19th Ward, attributed the low black turnout to apathy. "They don't think primary elections are as important. If half the people who had promised to vote for us had gone out, we would have had a great turnout," Mayhew said. The leaders of Ward 20 worked hard to get people to vote and had the highest turnout of the black wards, with 21 percent of their registered voters. "The problem was the people in the area were lackadaisical," Mayhew said. Tyson's campaign manager, Haizlip, blames the ward chairs themselves for apathy. "The ward chairs didn't pull out the vote for Althea. People will come out if they pull them out. People normally pull out the vote in black wards. They did not pull people out like they have in every other political race," she said. But Lisa Sullivan (GRD '90), a Tyson campaign aide, sees much more than apathy on the part of the chairs. She sees an active unwillingness to get out the vote. 

Sullivan and others charge the city's black leadership with an historical loyalty to the machine. A number of blacks started in city politics during Barbieri's first term as town chairman. Several local black leaders, including State Senator John Daniels, publicly supported Tyson's campaign. But the list of those who did not endorse her is longer. "As we got more involved in politics and we began to see what politics in New Haven is and what it isn't, we began to see problems with leadership in the black community," Sullivan said. "Its loyalty wasn't to its constituency, but rather to the machine. My sense is that it's a moral dilemma for them because I would grant that some of them do have some genuine concern for the state of the black community." 

Even if the black leaders are restricted by the machine, they are no different from the average New Haven politician who must work with the machine to stay in office. This reality forced Tyson to look beyond the established black leadership for assistance on her campaign. In fact, that support sought her out. Sullivan and a group of other young blacks entering New Haven politics came to form the backbone of Tyson's campaign. "Here we came from nowhere, beholden to no one, except for, probably, our idealistic values of what politics ought to be in our community," Sullivan said. If they were idealistic about politics, they were nonetheless pragmatic about the organization of the campaign.