Publication date: April 2010
Volume: 55
Issue number:  (Not specified in provided text)


**MASTHEAD:**
- EDITORS-IN-CHIEF: Haley Cohen, Kate Selker
- PUBLISHERS: Tim Shriver, Samantha Ellner
- MANAGING EDITORS: (Not specified in provided text)
- BUSINESS DIRECTOR: Helena Malchione
- ASSOCIATE EDITORS: Laura Blake, Bay Gross, Julia Fisher, Helen Knight, Max Ehrenfreund, Jacqueline Feldman
- PHOTO & DESIGN EDITORS: Brianne Bowen, Jane Long, Bob Jeffrey
- SENIOR EDITORS: Maya Seidler, Sarah Mich
- MEMBERS AND DIRECTORS: Emily Bazelon, Roger Cohn, Peter B. Cooper, Jonathan Dach, Tom Griggs, Brooks kelley, Kathrin Lassila, Jennifer Pitts, Henry Schwab, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, Fred Strebeigh, Thomas Strong
- ADVISORS: Richard Bradley, Jay Carney, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, J_ulia Preston, Lauren Rabin, David Slifka, John Swansburg, Steven Weisman, Daniel
- PRODUCTION MANAGER: Jimmy Murphy


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- Say a Little Prayer for Me - Kate Selker
- The Last Lobsterman - Sarah Mich
- Public Option - Julia Fisher
- Hitting a High Note - Mansa Grunes
- Final Draft - Helen Knight
- Demanding Supplies - Madeleine Haddon
- Made of Mettle - Haley Cohen
- Search Engine Failure - Helen Gao
- Interior Design - Kate Lind
- That's Our Motto - Bob Jeffery


**Title: Say a Little Prayer for Me**
**Author: Kate Selker**
**Page number(s): 34**


The interface between faith and love


**Title: The Last Lobsterman**
**Author: Sarah Mich**


Is it the end of the line for Rich Gambarella's lobster business?


**Title: Public Option**
**Author: Julia Fisher**
**Page number(s): 10**


Reading between the lines at New Haven's Public Library


**Title: Hitting a High Note**
**Author: Mansa Grunes**
**Page number(s): 4**


How one New Haven organization uses music to build community


**Title: Final Draft**
**Author: Helen Knight**
**Page number(s): 6**


The fight to Write the blue book


**Title: Demanding Supplies**
**Author: Madeleine Haddon**
**Page number(s): 7**


Taking art classes at Yale can be an expensive endeavor. Should Yale help its art students out?


**Title: Made of Mettle**
**Author: Haley Cohen**
**Page number(s): 22**


53 year-old Dwight Dickerson was accepted to Yale College in part for his "exceptional background." So why don't most students know about it?


**Title: Search Engine Failure**
**Author: Helen Gao**
**Page number(s): 38**


Chinese Yalies' uncensored views of Google's China controversy


**Title: Interior Design**
**Author: Kate Lind**
**Page number(s): 42**


Coming of age in a modern family


**Title: That's Our Motto**
**Author: Bob Jeffery**
**Page number(s): 46**


TNJ takes a look at New Haven's catch-all catch phrase.



**Title: Hitting a High Note**
**Author: Marissa Grunes**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
Hitting a High 
ote 
How one New Haven organization uses music to build community 
Tina Lee Hadari skips to the 
corner of the classroom with 
startling spunk for a woman in 
her third trimester. A young girl 
sitting in the middle of the room · 
pulls a bow across the strings of a 
cello that is almost her size. ''Am 
I warmer?" Hadari asks, crinkling 
her face into a s:mile as she peeks 
behind a piano for the teddy bear 
her student has hidden. 
Hadari is the founder of 
Musk .Haven, an not-for-profit 
organization for budding string 
players who live or go to school 
in the Hill, Dwight, Dixwell and 
N ewhallville neighborhoods, 
four of New Haven's poorest 
areas. Few of Music Haven's 
students have had experience 
with instrumental music before 
entering the program; few could 
afford less.ons or instruments. 
Music Haven itself is a young 
performer. In the fall of 2007, 
Hadari handed twelve youngsters 
wooden dowel rods with erasers 
on the end to practice holding . 
a bow. The newly-minted 
tnusicians, generally around seven 
years old, proved responsibility by 
bringing the dowels to class each 
day and not breaking them. After 
a year, they were handed a more 
precious gift 
a free musical 
• mstrurnent. 

For the musicians of 
Music Haven, community is 
paramount. At Music Haven, 
. . 
. 
says Hadari, "this is a farrlily; 
we take can~ of each other." · 
The program's highly trained 
teachers 
violinists Tina Lee 
Hadari (YSM '04) and Yaira 
Matyakubova (YSM '05), violist 
Colin Benn (Bachelor of Music 
in '02 from Jumiard) and cellist 
· Elise Pittenger (YC '97) work 
AFTER A 
.__..AR, THEY 
.___.R FJ HAND-
• ED·AMORFA 
PRE:CIOUS 
GIFT-AFREE 
~SICAL 
INSTRUMENT. 
hard to integrate themselves into 
the city fabric. Four days a week, 
each musician offers after-school 
lessons to twelve students at 
the Wexler Grant and John C. 
Daniels schools. By night, the 
group meets as the Haven String 
Quartet. 

As members of the 
professional quartet, the four 
musicians bring world-class 
instrumental performances to 
the Elm City for free. Most 
chamber groups are based in an 
academy or conservatory, but 
the Haven String Quartet has an 
"urban residency;" the entire city 
is home turf. Though they play 
some ticketed performances ~n 
churches and other traditional 
venues, they play most concer_ts 
in libraries, senior residences, 
private homes and schools. Their 
aim is to make music "accessible 
' 
to everybody within the 
community: financially, culturally, 
and location-wise" says Sarah 
Perkins, Program Coordinator. 
Any donations from the concerts 
go towards the lessons program 
and the instruments given to 
students. 

As a professional group, 
the quartet members confront 
matters of teamwork, 
accountability, and musicianship 
- the same ideals that they 
emphasize with their pupils. 
Says Hadari, "we're still trying 
to develop all the skills we 
want to impart to the kids, like 
communication, how we take care 
of each other. That's the bigger 
goal of Music Haven: Through 
music, we're trying to teach 
them how to be part of a bigger 
THE NEW JOURNAL 


In 2007, after a year spent 
assembling a board of directors, 
applying for grants, an~ raising 
money, Hadari received the go-
ahead to establish Music Haven 
in New Haven public schools. 
She called in analysts from the 
Yale School of Management to 
conduct a needs assessment to 
decide where to set up residence. 
The program began with 
twelve students. It doubled to 
twenty-four students in 2009 ' 
and trains thirty-six this year. Its 
waiting list projects over sixty 
students for next year, at which 
point Music Haven may be 
forced to cap the program. All 
students receive free instrurnents 
from Music Haven, which obtains 
them at wholesale discount 
with :help from localluthier Ute 
Brinkmann. 

Music Haven even has a 
composer-in-residence 
Hadari's 
husband, acclaitned violinist 
Netta Hadari. Mr. Hadari 
composes music to accompany 
children's books like The Lorax 
and Giraffes Can't Dance, which 
the Quartet then performs while 
Mr. Hadari reads the stories. He 
is currently working on a piece 
called "Everyone Knows What 
a Dragon Looks I .ike." The 
end result will give each quartet 
member a one-tninute solo ' 
played collaboratively with the 
New Haven Charnber Orchestra 
and the Music Haven kids 
themselves. · 
April2010 
The Music Haven program 
is modeled after Conununity 
MusicWorks in Providence ' 
Rhode Island, a non-prc>fit 
organization that aims to unite a 
lessons program and quartet into 
a symbiotic entity. Hadari hopes 
that her quartet will "become 
more of a 
feature of the 
neighborhood" 
and "bring 
together a 
diverse audience" 
through local, 
long-standing 
relationships 
within the 
commuruty. 
The community 
members must 
be convinced that Music Haven 
will not go the way of the many 
other well-intentioned but short-
lived endeavors that originate 
from Yale. Money is an ongoing 
concern for an organization 
funded largely by donations and 
grants. 

But the program is being 
noticed. Music Haven recently 
received an Arts Award from the 
Arts Council of Greater New 
Haven in 2008 as a "Ground 
Breaker," an accolade given to 
"individuals or organizations 
whose fresh, raw ideas spur 
mnovatlve programs." And 
David Brensilver, Director of 
Communications at the Arts 
council, lauds the program as 
something that "no one else is 
doing;" in bringing instrutnental 
lessons to students who wouldn't 
have had it before. 

Hadari does not think of 
Music Haven as catering to a 
particular group or 'serving' 
- disadvantaged residents, though; 
. instead, the organization 
should encourage community 
members of different social ' 
ethnic, and cultural groups to 
mix. She envisions Music Haven 
expanding beyond the lessons 
progratn to become a "fun place 
for kids to hang out and play 
chamber music and talk about 
issues in their lives, almost like 
a youth group at church, but 
revolving around music." 
The program is still finding 
its footing, but Hadari is 
conmutted to helping it adapt 
and grow. As Hadari says, smiling 
optirnistically and pau ing her own 
maternal bulge, ''progress comes 
in baby steps." 
-Marissa Grunes 


**Title: Final Draft**
**Author:  [Author not specified]**
**Page number(s): 6**

Final 
raft 
The fight to write the blue book 
" 
ay what? SAYBROOI<! Say 
what? SAYBROOI<!" Residential 
·college cheers are regularly heard 
at Intramural sports games, but 
this time, the setting isn't Yale's 
playing fields 
it is a small 
classroom in Scheffield-Sterling-
Srathcona hall. After hours of 
preparation, the time has come 
- not to demonstrate athletic 
superiority, but to pick classes. 
This is the residential college 
seminar draft, the cultnination 
of a long process of evaluation 
negotiation, and strategy. 
Most students know 
the Residential College Seminar 
Program for its nontraditional 
courses; recent offerings have 
included Christian Theology 
and Harry Potter, The Science 
of Brewing, and Hip Hop 
Music and Culture. Instructors· 
aren't Yale professors 
they 
are professionals, hailing from 
fields as diverse as screenwriting, 
children's literature, politics, 
• rnvestment, and nonprofit 
management. The classes 
themselves are unique, but so is 
the student run process that gets 
them here in the first place. 

Established in 1968, the 
sem....,...,lnar program "vas born during 
6 
a period of social revolution 
as a response to what the yale 
College Dean's Office called "a 
· widely felt need for innovation 
and experimentation in the Yale 
College curriculum." In an effort 
to forge bonds between students 
and the administration, the Dean 
invited undergraduates to help 
build the course catalog. Four 
decades later, experimentation 
and innovation are still hallmarks 
of the program. College sen1inars 
are, in fact, required to offer 
something that the regular 
curricuhun doesn't already 
include. 

College seminar proposals 
flood Yale each semester -
between forty and seventy five 
individuals, on 
average, apply 
to teach. In 
each college, a 
srnall group of 
students gather 
with a faculty 
advisor to 
form a seminar 
comm1ttee. 
They' e got 
work ahead 
of them-
conu.,..ruttee 
read and discuss all proposals, 
then interview applicants before 
they decide which classes to 
select. 

Each college meets 
candidates in a slightly different 
way. According to Ian Walker 
'1 0, head of the Si1lirnan Seminar 
committee, "a few colleges will 
try to have a block of interviews 
in one day. We kind of have 
a different philosophy ... we 
wine and dine our interviewees. 
What we usually do is take them 
to dinner in Silliman dining 
hall, we spread it over a week 
or two." Davenport takes its 
own approach: interviews are 
conducted in faculty advisor 
Eytan Halaban's apartment to 



**The Great Yale Seminar Draft**
**Author: Helen Knight**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
contribute a homier feel to the 
process. 

When interviews are 
finished and applications are 
read, the committees must pick 
their top choice courses. They 
need to find which ones are most 
engaging, to sift through what's 
fun as a concept and determine 
what works as a class. According 
to Balaban, "a lot of proposals 
come that are frivolous. A subject 
is taken and given a sexy title." 
It's up to the students to see 
through the title and make sure 
the syllabus itself is up to par. 
What one committee finds 
compelling, another might find 
unappealing. That's a good thing 
-
while all the colleges read all 
the applications, each can select 
only two per semester. If they 
all pick the same favorite class, 
they've got to fight for it later 
on. According to Geoff Shaw 
'10, former seminar committee 
coordinator for Branford, "there 
is never an objectively most 
popular class ... One time, there 
was a class on I-banking that 
I thought would be the most 
popular - I thought it would go in 
a flash, but it didn't wind up going 
soon." 

The process finally 
concludes at the long-awaited 
"draft." Coordinators from 
every college meet to battle 
amongst each other in the name 
of academic selection. It can get 
intense. Walker summed up the 
April 2010
whole experience: "It's like the 
United Nations of colleges." 

According to Shaw, Branford's 
seminar committee develops a 
detailed strategy before entering 
the draw. They determine a 
ranking of desirability for their 
choices, and decide how much 
they are willing to compromise 
in the sponsorship of certain 
courses. 

But Branford's biggest 
rival puts them to the test. 
"Saybrook is very passionate 
about the committee," Walker 
reports. "They're very passionate 
about the whole seminar process. 
They have people come to the 
draft in Saybrook gear, facepaints. 
It's really funny and it lightens 
the mood. I kind of wish more 
colleges did it." 

Though one Davenport 
representative described the 
draft as "a passive-aggressive cut-
throat process," Shaw and Walker 
categorized it as "collegial" 
and "friendly competition," 
respectively. Most seminar 
committee members will take 
few, if any, of the courses they've 
personally picked; for them, the 
time and emotion invested in the 
draft comes down to residential 
college loyalty. To each college 
their own, and may the best class 
win. 
-Helen Knight


**Demanding Supplies**
**Author: Madeleine Haddon**
**Page number(s): 7-9**

Taking art classes at Yale 
can be an expensive en-
deavor. Should Yale help 
its art students out? 

The starving artist 
survives on canned beans and 
spends his or her pinched pen-
nies on canned paint instead. The 
image is familiar, cliched. Yale's 
undergraduate Art students are 
by no means starving, but they 
face far higher expenses than our 
other majors do. Liberal arts uni-
versities such as Yale pride them-
selves on their ability to offer 
students nearly absolute freedom 
in crafting their academic careers. 
But for Art students at Yale, this 
freedom comes with a price tag -
literally. 

Yale Art majors have been 
known to purchase up to $1000 
in materials for a single class. 
Art major Chika Ota '11 never 
spends less than $200 on materi-
als each semester; she adds that 
oil painters and photographers 
often spend upwards of $500. 
Art materials are generally more 
expensive than course books, and 
they don't come used. Moreover, 
art students often feel that the 
highest quality materials make the 
highest quality art; if they can't 
afford them, they're at an artistic 
disadvantage. 

In addition to the costs of 
buying personal materials, most 
art classes at Yale require an extra 
class materials fee. These range 
from $25 to $150 - the more 
advanced the class, the steeper 
the price. 

Most art students finance 
their own work through jobs dur-
ing the school year. Ota has two 
jobs that help cover 
the costs. Another art 
student, Fidel Gurrola 
'12, has a job at the Art 
School and digs into 
his personal savings if 
his salary alone can't 
cover the cost of sup-
plies. 

Resources 
like the Digital Media 
Center for the Arts 
(DMCA), a building on 
York Street that houses 
top of the line technol-
ogy for audio, visual, 
and printed work, also 
come with price tags. 

In the DMCA students can rent 
digital cameras, digital video cam-
eras, microphones, field lighting 
and recording equipment -- but 
they must pay to do so. Accord-
ing to Ken Lovell, the Associate 
Director of the DMCA, this 
is the school's way of showing 
tough love. The facility exists, he 
explains, "to train people to do 
the work themselves" instead of 
paying someone else to do it for 
them, ultimately helping them to 
become more self-sufficient art-
ists. He said, "their mission is to 
show you how to do your work, 
not to do your work for you." 

Even keeping that in mind, it's 
hard to imagine how students 
on financial aid could afford to 
take Yale's undergraduate art 
courses. Though the school often 
subsidizes academic books for 
students on financial aid, they 
will not chip in towards the costs 
of art fees or materials. Van As-
sen, a member of the Art School 
faculty, explains that it would be 
difficult for Yale to fund under-
graduate work because the costs 
of projects can vary so greatly 
between classes and students. 
"Some person might require 
a lot of material, and another 
person very little and both could 
be equally good for 
equal reasons. It's 
better for students 
to take responsibil-
ity for their expens-
es," he said. 

Our rival Uni-
versity has a dif-
ferent take on the 
matter. At Harvard, 
Art majors are not 
expected to fund 
equipment or ma-
terials for any class. 
Instead, they are 
given a budget for 
the semester, usu-
ally between $150 
to $600, to use at their discretion. 

Harvard Art student Isidore 
Bethel '11, expressed that this 
stipend has helped the art major 
from becoming financially exclu-
sive. Bethel is on a full scholar-
ship at Harvard, and said that the 
Art department's subsidies were 
one of the reasons he chose the 
school in the first place. 

The difference in subsidy rais-
es questions about Yale's invest-
ment in their artists. The Uni-
versity has produced successful 
artists from both its undergradu-
ate and graduate programs, such 
as sculptor Jessica Stockholder 
MFA '85, who is now a faculty 
member of the Yale School of


--- Page 9 ---

Art. If the school values their 
contribution, some students 
wonder, why don't they fund it? 
Science students don't have to pay 
for their lab space, their equip-
ment, or their chemicals. Why 
should art students be forced to 
pay for their paint and clay? 

This year the art depart-
ment counts 50 majors who were 
not deterred by the costs of pur-
suing their craft. 

"Students are willing to 
set aside certain things that will 
allow them to do whatever they 
are passionate about." Van Assen 
explained. He sees it as a "matter 
of making choices." According to 
him, the ideal students will give up 
the luxuries that their peers enjoy 
in order to pursue their craft. 

To Van Assen's pleasure, 
and to the credit of many of 
the faculty within the art school, 
many Yale art students agree that 
the work they produce is worth 
the costs. Instead of shelling out 
cash for summer travels or unpaid 
internships, some Art students 
work all summer long to make 
enough to buy that new camera or 
new set of paints that they need. 
Others are particularly economi-
cal with their spending during 
the school year. "I don't really 
buy anything I don't need," Ota 
says. Many art students don't view 
this frugal lifestyle as a punish-
ment, but rather an unavoidable 
trade off in order to pursue what 
it is that they love. "What I am 
spending now is very important 
for building a portfolio for later," 
says Fidel Gurrola '12, who hopes 
to be a graphic designer after 
graduation. 

Gurrola's passion is ad-
mirable, but for some students, 
passion can't pay the bills. If 
our University wants to keep its 
talented artists, then it should not 
make its artists give up so much 
for their work. 

While the starving artist-
in-training sentiment may have 
its place, it isn't at Yale. Yale has 
money. The artists have talent. 
Yale wants talent. Student artists 
need money. It's in the Universi-
ty's hands to strike an even trade. 
-Madeleine Haddon



**Title: Reading between the lines at New Haven's Public Library**
**Author: Julia Fisher**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
Reading between the lines at New Haven's Public Library 
At Yale, we do not 
simply house books, we worship 
them. Sterling Memorial Library, 
according to its architect James 
Gable Rogers, is a "Cathedral of 
Learning" and Beinecke bears 
resemblance to a marble-walled 
shrine. Our library system is the 
fourth .largest in the country, 
holding upward of 12 million 
volutnes. Right off of the Green, 
closer to 0 ld Campus than 
Sterling itself, is the New Haven 
Public Library. Though it is often 
overlooked by University students, 
this city library has its own 
devotees. 

The Public Library may 
have fewer books than Yale's · 
library system, but each is more 
carefully selected for popular 
interest. Besides, while New 
Haven residents can visit Yale's . 
libraries during the day, they can't 
take out books for free, like they 
can at the Public Library. 

Most interactions between 
Yale and the New Haven Public 
Library aren't for checking out 
books. It's sometitnes a site 
10 
. by Julia Fisher 
. for public readings of student 
writing, and it's where a number 
of Yalies do community service, 
helping visitors with tax forms or 
technology. Some Yale students 
use the library's local history 
room, which is home to old maps, 
city directories, and newspapers, 
for research. 

THES 
THE SAME 
TABLE IN THE 
BACI<COR-
NEROFTHE 
FIRST FLOOR 
RFJADING 
ROOM. 
Kathy DeNigris, the Chief of 
Public Services, guesses a mere 
150 current Y alies hold library 
cards. "They're probably checking 
out bestsellers 
and films are 
huge," she said. Maria Tonelli, 
the library's Head of Circulation/ 
Access Services, estimates that 
only one Yale student visits the 
library each day. 

I arrive for a visit at 9:39 
on the Saturday before Easter . 
The library is supposed to open at 
10:00, but I've heard a line usually 
forms before opening time, so 
I arrive early. When I get to the 
library, there's no line. Actually, 
there's not a single person on the 
library steps. A few people walk 
by on the street, but no one stops. 
The website had told me the 
library was closed yesterday for 
Good Friday, but it said nothing 
of Saturday. A sign on the door 
indicates otherwise. "GOOD 
FRIDAY," says the printed sign: 
''We Will Close For This Holiday." 
But someone has reconsidered 
and left a mark in Sharpie. ''Both 
GOOD FRIDAY + Saturday, 
April 3." 

As it turns out, many of 
the library's visitors hadn't gotten 
the message, either. A man 
saunters up to the doors a couple 
minutes aftet; I've arrived. He's 
'H-IE ffi\\ JOURNAL 




**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Julia Fisher**
**Page number(s): 13-14**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• ' 
t 
• 
. older 
maybe in his 60s 
short, 
. ' 
' and scruffy. He's wearing a dirty 
white tank top, a blue denirn 
jacket, and sandals. When he 
reaches the library's double front 
' 
doors, he pulls. Nothing. He 
pulls again, then tries the other 
door. He looks around, slowly 
)Urns back and proceeds slowly 
down the steps, hands in his 
pockets. He leans against a railing, 
standing idly, looks around for a 
minute, moves to the edge of the 
-sidewalk. He watches, as if about 
to cross the street, but several 
minutes pass and no traffic blocks 
his path. 

Finally, I approach him. 
'Were you trying to go into the 
library?" I ask. 
He looks at me. Pauses . 
. 
Slowly, he responds: "No, no." 
I thank hirn. I walk away. A 
minute later, he crosses the street 
onto the Green, and he's gone. 

In the next twelve minutes, 
fourteen people try to enter the 
library. Some arrive by car or 
bike, but rnost are on foot. A 
mom drops off her high school 
\ 
daughter in a white pickup truck. 
A minute later, the girl is back, 
dur nping her iPod and books in 
the car. "They open at noon," 
she says, though I see no such 
indication. 

Only a tall man in a red 
pril2010 
-
shirt expresses disappointment 
before leaving. He arrives· alone, 
tugs on the doors a few times, and 
grunts loudly before heading back 
to the Green. 

When I return on a 
Wednesday afternoon, I meet 
Alberta Taylor standing idly on 
the steps. She has just left the


BUT THE 
ARI~ 
SO A 
LLFULFEW · 
WHOSTICI< 
TO RPJADING 
__ .. 

library. ''I was trying to learn 
how to take care of my math," 
she tells me. She's been going to 
school 
adult classes 
for the 
last two years, though she hasn't 
been going recendy because she's 
working as a full-rime babysitter. 
Her friends would use the library, 
too, she says, if they were ''out 
here." But, she adds ''I don't have 
~ 
friends no more. Some of them 
are locked up." 

Taylor stands in the middle 
of the stairs for a while, no\v one 
of the small crowd of library 
loiterers, and I go inside. 

The 
ew Haven Library, 
like the books it holds, doesn't 
change much each day. The arne 
people visit. The same man sits at 
the same table in the back corner 
of the first floor reading room. 
flis name is George Nelson, and 
he's leaning back in his chair. 
Nelson visits the library every 
other day, mostly to use M ySpace _ 
and Facebook, as he 9oesn't have 
a computer at home in Hamden. 
He far prefers the New Haven 
library to the Hamden one, 
though. Here, he says, "I know 
everybody." He sees friends from 
he graduated two years 
back and now works busing tables 
at the Omni Hotel 
and family. 

While we're talking, he sees his 
cousin across the room and stops 
to greet her. 

Nelson sees all the same 
people every day, doing the 
sa_me things. And he sticks to his 
routine: He uses the computers. 
"No books," he says as 
soon as I mention the library's 
other offering. Nelson isn't alone 
in passing on books. The larger 
attraction at the library is its mass 
of free computers 
one needs 
only a library card to access one 
of the seventy-five machines. 
They're hea\-1.ly used by visitors, 
especially by those looking for 
jobs in this hostile economy. In 
recent years, many jobs have 
required applicants to complete 
all application materials online, so 
those who don't own computer 
come to the library. The library


--- Page 14 ---

maintains a jobs task force with 
resolirces for the unemployed. 

But there are also the 
willful few who stick to reading. 
In the back of the library's 
main level, Everett Echols leans 
over the WallS treet Journal. He 
. is surrounded by books and 
newspapers. Under the Journal is 
the New York Times; next to him 
HE STARTED 
TH 
WAITING FOR 
GO DOT. 

is a bulky tome titled Principles of 
Corporate Finance, which he says is 
his favorite book. 

Like Nelson, Echols comes to 
the library every day. He sits at the 
same table every day 
unless it's 
taken. He sees "the same crowd 
every day." He arrives around 
noon 
"I get up, I eat, then I 
come here" 
and stays until 
closing. "Usually people have their 
routine," he says. This is his. 

Echols has been retired for 
twenty years. Born and raised in 
Cleveland, Echols never went 
to college, instead working at 
McDonald's and in several other 
jobs in the service industry. He 
came to 
ew Haven many ears 
ago to work on Long Wharf, 
loading and unloading. 

Now, Echols checks out 
five or six books every week. He 
reads about history, economics, 
philosophy, mathematics, and 
physics. "I like to read," he 
says several times. He started 
with Waitingfor Godot. which he 
picked up off a shelf in a library 
in Cleveland for no particular 
reason. "I just continued reading." 

He moved on to Sartre, Camus, 
Virginia Woolf. He doesn't like 
fiction much anymore 
turning 
instead to works like Principles of 
Corporate Finance. 

Echols doesn't talk to 
others at the library, though he 
recognizes many of the people 
there. The library offers a variety 
of programs for its visitors, but 
Echols has never gone to any. He 
talks quietly, slowly. It's clear he'd 
like to get back to his reading. I let 
him, and leave him to the quiet. 
Julia Fisher is a freshman in Berkelry 
College and an associate editor of TNJ 


**Title: The union of faith and romance**
**Author: Kate S elker**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
a 
tt e 
er 
The union of faith and romance 
by Kate S elker 
___..eah Libresco '12 hoped that 
her boyfriend, Chris Pagiriella '12, 
could find her a very particular 
Valentine's Day Card. 
"I told him he didn't have to 
get me one unless he could find 
• 
one that said, 'I love you so much that 
I am accidental!J condemningyou to hell 
f?y wishingyou existed. m She tells me. 
Chris looked. "But it wasn't in 
the Yale Book store! Not the first 
or second floor," he laments. 

The romantic sentiment, which 
didn't quite make it to Hallrnark, 
began with a wild hypothetical: 
Would Chri~ a practicing Catholic, 
rather have Leah, an ardent atheist, 
exist with her heart hardened complete!J 
against Christ forever- or would he 
rather she did not exist at all? 
Chris thought for a moment. 
''Well I'd probably wish you 
existed, but that would be for 
selfish reasons." He's in love. 
Come Hell or high water, he 
wants her by his side. 

Conunons is a cavernous, 
cro\.vded space, but when I meet 
· Leah and Chris in the back, they 
only see each other. Throughout 
16 
our conversation, Leah will 
squeeze Chris' cheek or he'll pat 
down her hair. When one puts 
. 
an elbow on the table, the other 
soon follows, and when one leans 
back, it's only a matter of tirne 
before the other is tipping in his 
or her chair. (I've read about this 
"chameleon effect" in psychology 
class - when a couple is close, 
they unconsciously mirnic each 
others' reactions.) 
Chris and Leah have agreed, 
along with three other couples, to 
be interviewed about religion and 
relationships at Yale. It's the type 
of stuff you're never supposed 
to bring up at a cocktail party. 
We're told to avoid politics, avoid 
God, avoid talking about your 
great boyfriend or your horrible 
ex. But there's so much to learn 
if we do. Chris and Leah, Sloane 
and Harris, Jessica and Roland, 
and Michelle and Alan have let 
me into their private lives. So they 
talk, and I listen. 

SEX 
for Sloane Heller '12, is about 
doing a good deed. I meet her and 
her boyfriend Harris Eppsteiener 
'12 in the Slifka Center, which 
serves as a hub of Jewish life 
at Yale. She is small and brown 
haired, with a cheery, high 
cheeked smile; he has a politician's 
gaze and blue eyes. They speak 
to me frofi! the same bench, 
opting to squeeze in next to each 
other instead of spreading out in 
separate chairs. He leans on her 
shoulder. 
BY E 
. ARE RE-
UIREDTO 
~SEX 
THTHEIR 
~S. 

Can you have sex on Shabbat? 
I ask the pair. Shabbat is the tirne 
between Friday night and Saturday 
evening, considered holy in the 
Jewish tradition. 
Sloane nods furiously. 
''DOUBLE MITZVAH!" Mitzvot 
' 
are acts of hun1an kindness. By 
THE NEW JOURNAL 


--- Page 17 ---

Jewish law, you're required to do 
them. 
Harris corrects her. "No no 
no, that's basically only if you're 
married.'' 
Then again, they admit, college 
kids sometimes ignore that part. 
And besides, Sloane and Harris 
argue, J udiasm is very pro sex. 
''Within the context of the family, 
it's absolutely encouraged," Sloane 
explains. "There are passages in 
the Talmud, which is the main 
-
text of Jewish law, about how to 
please your wife." 
"I've never read them." Harris 
adrnits. 
Sloane turns to look at her 
boyfriend. "I have. " 
. ·-
fn truth, they explain, it's more 
about procreation than pleasure . 
By Jewish law, men are required to 
have sex with their wives. (There 
are some logistical dispensations. 
"If you're a sailor, you can do it 
£ 
"H 
) 
ewer t1 rnes, 
arns notes. 
"Jewish babies! Yay!" Sloane 
exclairns. 
But she's serious. "Since the 
Holocaust, there's a very prevalent 
fear in our grandparents' 
generation that we could be 
wiped out. And that's a very 
visceral thing, because all of 
my grandparents' friends were 
survivors.'' She looks at Harris . 
"Barbara" she says. 
''Barbara?" he asks. 
April2010 
"Babs," she clarifies. 
"Oh, Babs." He gets it now. 
Babs is Sloane's grandmother; . 
the majority of her friends are 
Holocaust surVivors. With so 
many people murdered under 
Hider's rule, it makes sense that 
Babs' generation feels strongly 
about making sure the religion 
doesn't die out. And since Judiasm 
doesn't proselytize, the only way 
to perpetuate the religion is by 
raising Jewish children. 
"It's the first commandment in 
the 613 commandments!" Harris 
says. "Be fruitful and multiply." 

For a Protestant opinion, I talk 
with Jessica Letchford '11. She's 
dating a fellow Christian, Roland 
Reimers '11, long distance while 
he spends a semester abroad in 
Beijing. Jessica talks to me about 
their relationship from a bench 
in the Davenport courtyard, her 
blonde hair glows in the sunlight. 
Roland emails me about Jessica 
from China. "Our fundamental 
trust in God is what binds us 
closely together," he-writes. 
"Since we have assurance in God's 
plan for us no matter what, we 
can just enjoy our relationship 
exactly the way it is." 
Jessica, too, says sex has 
it's place in religion -- when 
it is between a pair united in 
matnmony. 
"I think that God created sex 
to be a really good thing, but that 
it brings the greatest happiness 
and the greatest fulfillment in 
the context that He created it 
for." That· context is marriage. 
According to the Bible, Jessica 
tells me, God intended the 
relationship between a man and 
a woman to mirror the bond 
between Christ and the church. 
As such, it shall be sacred. 

RITUALS 
are common across religions. 
Leah, the atheist, was skeptical 
of the ones performed at Chris' 
Catholic Mass. "At first, to be 
honest, it looked like when you 
watch a fantasy movie," she tells 
me. "There are these bizarre and 
arcane rituals!" 
"I love your National 
Geographic take on this," Chris 
responds. 
She softens somewhat. 
"Mass doesn't seem to touch 
on Catholicism that much, but 
rather just on being decent 
people. I was su t prised," she 
acqmesces. 
Chris smiles goofily at his 
girlfriend. Leah turns to look at 
n1.e. She's read his mind. 
"He thinks you can't ha e 
objective morality without God," 
she says, and Chris nods . 
At least they're on the same 
page about how they disagree. 
17 


--- Page 18 ---

Sloane and Harris, for their 
part, keep Shomer Shabbat. The 
practice means different things to 
different people, but it's mainly 
about observing the Sabbath's 
prohibition on work. From Friday 
at sundown until Saturday night, 
Harris doesn't use money, cook, 
write, use his computer, or drive 
a car. 
"l.don't use lights." Sloane 
explains. She and Harris don't 
use their cell phones on Shab bat, 
either. (fhis can make it hard to 
meet up with friends on a Friday 
night.) But Sloane breaks one 
particular rule. 
"I do take showers." She looks 
at Harris. "That shower's for 
you. That's a gift" she tells hirn, 
then looks over to me. ''You're 
not supposed to shower because 
you're hot supposed to heat 
water'' she explains. 
Harris smiles. 

Jessica says she misses Roland. 
But they, too, share a ritual that 
keeps them close to each other, 
by' keeping them close to God. 
S 
EIS 
THEIR VIRTU-
e 
PEL 
Christian relationships, according 
to Jessica, are like a triangle. God's 
at the top, and each partner forms 
a bottom corner. 

18 
'~nd if you each grow 
closer to God, you grow closer 
together!" she explains. 
So they pray together, even 
though they're far apart. Skype is 
their virtual chapeL 
''We both close our eyes, and 
. . 
usually one will pray first, and 
· the other one will pray next. We 
pray out loud together. We'll · 
pray for each other and for each 
other's friends, and pray for our 
relationship," Jessica tells me. 
Roland writes to me that 
praying. over Skype "reaffirms and 
cements the fact that we, first and 
foremost, want to look to God 
for ever 
· g in our life, before 
we look to each other. Fears and 
co'ncerns that we have - whether 
about school work and classes, 
looking for jobs and grad schools, 
or o~her post-graduation plans 
- don't seem nearly as daunting 
when we can pray about them 
openly and honestly with each 
other." 
For them, the ritual of prayer 
brings comfort. It works. 

s 
NG 
works, too. I learn this from 
Alan Wesson '11 and Michelle 
Ho '11; Alan's been a life-long 
Christian, but Michelle just 
recently joined the faith. One of 
their first shared experiences was 
at Alan's church. He'd invited 
Michelle and two other friends, 
and none of the three were 
religious. 
"One of them was like, 'Yeah, 
I don't think I'm going to find 
God in a church.' The other one 
found it hard to believe, too, 
because science makes sense to 
him," Alan remembers. 
But Michelle was different. 
She left the church changed. At 
that time, Michelle was absorbed 
in thoughts of her fatnily back 
home, and how she missed them. 
The pastor spoke about love and 
cotnrnunity. He spoke more about 
people than about God. 
"I just sat there, and I 
remember clearly he referenced 1 
Corinthians 13, the passage about 
what love is." It felt right to her. 
The choir started playing ''Your 
Love Never Fails," and Michelle 
was tnoved to tears. 
"It was just like, oh, this 
is speaking right to me," she 
remembers. "That's what I needed 
to hear." Over the sutnrner, 
Michelle stayed at Yale, and 
the Christian community here 
welcomed her. 
"Just through potlucks, and 
talking," she found her place 
in the Church. "My needs were 
being filled all over the place," she 
explains. 
The process was moving for 
Alan, too. His world changed. 
I 



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Kate S.**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
. . 
·-
•• 
~-"I just remember being like, 
wait! Wait! What's going on? It 
was a paradigm shift- that Jesus 
can talk to people no matter what 
their background is." Michelle's 
mom had been Catholic, her dad 
had been Buddhist, and she'd 
never really been either. 
''I was raised nothing," she 
tells me. With Alan's stray 
suggestion, she found something. 
Chris and Leah are constant 
thinkers. They started sharing 
religion as part of an intellectual 
bargain. Do they ever have 
arguments about their beliefs? 
"Oh rny goodness, we have 
them all the tirne!" Leah tells me. 
pril2010 
• 
Ro anc anc ess1ca 
"1 J.e y o "ten ta [(. a ::>out re 11 1on 
g 
' 
and they often disagree. So, 
recently, they made a deal. As they 
tell me about, Chris and Leah go 
from holding hands to playing a 
feisty game of thumb war. 
"I wanted bim to dance with 
me at the Yale Political Union 
~ 
Ball. So I told him if he went to 
ballroom dancing with me for 
two hours, I would go to Mass 
with him. I'm still not Catholic, 
but he knows how to waltz!" She 
laughs. 
Chris looks at her. 
"You went on holy days," he 
says, "which I really appreciated." 
The thurnb war continues. 
''As much as I make fun of 
Mass," Leah notes, ''I'm also 
pretty glad I go now. It's an 
important part of Chris' life. 
And I like being able to have 
argurnents." 
Chris' face breaks into a smile. 
can be difficult. After 
Michelle's freshman year, she 
and her big brother sat together 
outside, watching the Perseid 
Meteor shower. 


"I just kind of popped it 
up, like, 'By the way, I think I 
. 
might've become Christian in the 
past couple months,"' she recalls. 
Her brother was surprised. He 
pushed back. 
''He started asking questions 
· like 'How do you know the 
difference between God's love 
and people's love?' and 'Why does 
-
the world keep turning if people 
don't believe?' These questions 
got me pretty flustered." 
As Michelle speaks. today, she 
waves her hands around to help 
explain. Alan watches her closely. 
"I would try to answer, and it 
would be pretty circular," she says. 
"I kept referring to this 'litnitless 
feeling' that was 'pooling from 
this ocean of love,' and I just got 
flustered, and really frustrated, 
because I thought, 'you're asking 
the wrong questions!"' 
She calms as she comes 
to her conclusion: It took her 
brother a minute to grasp, but 
he understood her· conviction. 
It wasn't that he didn't support 
her choice, but simply that he 
wouldn't have made it for hi tnself 
"For hirn," Michelle 
told me, "ever 
· g, even down 
to feelings, can be explained by 
science, something other than 
God." And for him, that was 
enough. 

For Chris, God and rationality 
both serve important roles in 
the world; he's· quick to ·apply 
academic rigor to his faith. 
"I did a lot of research on 
the historicity ofJesus and the 
Gospels, and it was a hypothesis I 
could· believe in," he· explains. 
Leah coughs a little, and Chris 
reaches out to pat her on the back 
and continues, "The· historical 
arguments are there~ I believe in 
Jesus as a man and as a part of 
the conception of the Trinity and 
God. I try to critically evaluate 
each Gospel claitn." 
Leah begs to differ. 
"I've never really seen a 
persuasive case" for God, she tells 
me, and, looking at Chris, adds, 
"despite many efforts." 
She rubs his head. He rubs 
hers. 
PARENTS 
have ideas of their own. Chris' 
parents are very religious. Leah's 
parents are very much not. Her 
nineteenth-century ancestors 
were among the Europeans first 
printing Ernile Zola's radically 
socialistic, naturalistic books. 
If Leah ever converted to 
Christianity, I ask, would her 
parents support it? 
"Oh, they'd kill me," she 
exclairns. 
Just don't tell Chris' mom. She 
wants Catholic grandkids, and 
Chris is under some pressure to 
supply. Ms. Pagliarella, however, 
approves of Leah, even if she 
holds out hope that she'll convert. 
Chris explains that his mom and 
dad have gotten used to the idea 
of Leah. ''You'd think it'd be 
problematic that I'd bring home a 
liberal, bisexual, atheist Jew from 
Long Island," but despite it all, 
his parents have gladly welcomed 
Leah into their home on breaks. 
If she doesn't keep the kids from 
growing up Catholic, eve.t;ything 
will be just fine. 

That works for Leah. She · . 
won't keep them from growing up 
anything they don't want to be. "I 
wouldn't stop hitn from taking the 
children to church," she explains. 
"I· should be strong enough in my 
truth c1aitn that it shouldn't be 
hurt by the fact that somebody 
saw the Cross." 
Michelle's mother, too, had 
oplllions. 
"My morn and I have this 
running joke that boys need to 
'apply' to be my boyfriend, and 
when I went home she really 
expressed concern about me 
dating Alan." 
Alan had plans to follow his 
religion to wherever it led him, 
and this wasn't safe enough for 
Michelle's mom. Faith did not 
guarantee a lucrative job, and 
Michelle's mother knew this. 


"She was like, 'you need to 
be financially stable,"' Michelle 
explains. 
When Michelle came home 
. after break, she told Alan what 
her mom had said. '~nd he 
was just like, 'if there's an 
· g 
that could break us up, it's your 
mom."' 
Alan's face gets serious and 
he nods. He stars speaking 
slowly. "I guess I should imagine 
more what it might feel like to 
be your mom," he says. "Like, I 
came on a boat from Vietnam 
and created a life for my family. 
I sacrificed a lot to make sure 
Michelle had ever 
· g she 
wanted and needed to succeed, 
and now she's at Yale University 
and she seems to be floating, 
because she met this boy, talking 
this jivetalk about Jesus, but he 
doesn't have a concrete way to 
take care of my daughter-:-" and 
here ~~Alan pauses, then speaks for 
.· .. 
hirnself. '~d I think that's a valid 
question." He sighs, looks up · 
and away, put his hands under his 
knees and sits on them. 

THE FUTURE 
then, isn't always clear. 
But the couples I spoke to 
couples have faith that it's going 
to be O.K. 
"I worry about things 
sometirnes." Alan tells me, then 
turns back to look at Michelle. "I 
get anxious when I think about · 
what it would mean for my life 
and your life if we decided to 
stick together for the long haul." 
Michelle plays with the side of 
her chair and looks towards the 
far corner of the room. 
'~s in, how could we do that, 
where following where Jesus 
might take us, knowing that we 
could be in the suburbs of a 
major city, but could also be in a 
slun1 in India!" 
Michelle laughs now. Alan 
does, too. 
"Just to make an extreme 
point," he clarifies. "I ask myself 
a lot of hard questions about well, 
~an, you do have crazy ideas 
about your life, do you realize 
Michelle might not want to live in 
Fellowship Place for a year while 
you are chaplain, Michelle might · 
not want to go to Washington 
state and work with incarcerated 
prisoners, she might actually want 
to settle down and have a family!"' 
He pauses, then continues. 
"Or, I think, 'you might 
actually want to settle down and 
have a family, Alan!"' 
Michelle looks up; she's 
surprised. She smiles _at Alan. She 
looks back down towards the 
floor. 
Alan explains a little more 
of the dangers the two of 
them might face. A life spent 
in religious service isn't always 
lucrative. 
"It's like the security of the 
American dream, tossed out the 
window." He holds his arms out 
in front of hitn, to demonstrate . 
"Like, "SECURITY!" and toss 
it out, five stories down." 
Michelle laughs again. No 
matter their circumstances, it 
seems, they'll be keeping tabs on 
each other. 
We talk about a lot," she says. 
Alan agrees. 
"We have a library of 
conversations we need to talk 
about," he says. "But it bodes well 
for the future if we have things 
to talk about in restaurants when 
we're old." · 
Michelle smiles. "I have this 
overwhelming feeling that this is 
solid," she says. · 
We can pray for the best. 
Kate 5 
is a junior in Davvenport 
College and Co-Editor-in-Chief of 
TN] 



**The 53-Year-Old Yale Student**
**Author: Harry Cohen**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
53 year-old Dwight Dickerson was accepted to Yale College in part for his "exception-
al background." So why don't niost students know about it? 
, Many Yale undergraduates are 
surpri~ed to encounter Dwight 
Dickerson in their Spanish 
seminars and Political Psychology 
lectures. His usual uniform is 
collegiate enough - black Velcro 
sneakers, blue jeans, a black 
pinstriped button-down left un-
tucked and a grey Yale Bulldogs 
sweatshirt - but his bald head and 
. 
the white hairs salting his pepper 
black mustache suggest he is a 
fair bit older than your average 
undergraduate. 


Dwight sees them 
staring, and sometitnes even 
whispering about what he's doing 
in the classroom. Is he really an 
undergraduate? Perhaps he's just 
auditing? How old is he? 


If he wanted to, Dwight 
coUld volunteer that he is indeed 
an undergraduate - a 53- year-old . 
senior. He could tell them about 
the obstacles he overcame on 
his sinuous path to Yale - how 
he grew up in the poorest area 
of the South Bronx where he 
was once shot in the leg, how 
he had to drop out of Howard 
University when both of his 
parents passed away in the same 
year, or how his father's mistress 
seized his meager inheritance. He 
could reveal how he lost his job 
after September 11th, and had to 
work five temp jobs to stay afloat. 
When his classmates complain 
about their overwhelming slew of 
exams and extra-curriculars, he 
could mention that in addition to 
taking classes~ he works 11 :30pm 
to 6:30am seven days a week 
as an inspector at the Sikorsky 
helicopter plant. He could tell 
them that his ·wife is ill making 
him the sole breadwinner for his 
family of four. 


He could tell them all this if 
he wanted. But Dwight doesn't 
want to draw attention to himself, 
and sensing that his background is 
different, his. younger peers don't 
want to pry. 


When I first met Dwight in my 
discussion section for Colonial 
Latin America, an undergraduate 
history course, I was one of those 
undergraduates too nervous to 
ask him about his background. 
How would I even phrase the 
question, I wondered. How are 
you here? No. Why are you here? 
No, definitely not. Why are you so 
old? Even worse. 


I resorted to asking other 
people in my section about 
Dwight. Though everyone I asked 
was intrigued, no one had any 
answers. One friend responded 
that she had once been in class 
with another older man - his 
name was Robert Johnson '10 
and he was an active duty officer 
in the United States Army. She 
explained that he was part of 
"the Eli Whitney something or 
other", unable to remember the 
program's official name. 


Suspecting that Dwight 
might be part of the satne 
progratn, I visited the website for 
more clues. The most protninent 
item on the strikingly sparse and 
archaic homepage was a video 
titled 'CVoices of the Eli Whitney 
Students Program.'' 


'1:f someone would have 
told me when I was younger ... 
that I would be graduating from 
Yale at the age of 53 ... I would 
have told them that they were 
crazy." Suddenly, I realized that


--- Page 23 ---

· I knew that voice: deliberate, 
articulate with pauses for 
reflection. "I would not have had 
an inkling of an idea that that 
would happen to an -individual like 
myself from the South Bronx ... 
But it has." 


Since 2004, Dwight 
has attended Yale as an Eli 
Whitney student. Previously 
known as Yale's Special Student 
program, the Eli Whitney 
Student prograrn accepts "non-
traditional" students to work 
towards Yale bachelor's degrees. 
These students are usually older 
than typical undergraduates 
because their college plans have 
been postponed or interrupted. 
They are selected, according 
to .the prograrn's website, for 
their unique life experiences and 
perspective that 18 to 22 year-old 
undergraduates simply cannot 
offer. 


Past and current Eli Whitney 
students run the garnut from 
Mike Richter, a former goalie 
for the New York Rangers, to 
25 year-old used car salesman-
cum-financial advisor William 
Chmelar and gay rights activist 
Gregg Gonsalves. The prograrn 
garnered international media 
attention in 2006 when former 
Taliban spokesman 
atullah 
Hashemi applied. Hashemi had 
sta1 ted talcing classes at Yale in 
September 2005 on the non-
degree track, and applied for 
degree status -as an Eli Whitney 
April2010 
student in Spring 2006. Possibly 
because of the controversy _ . 
sparked by his presence at Yale 
even as a non-degree student, 
Hashemi was denied from the Eli 
Whitney students program - a 
decision that prompted even more 
press. But in spite of the ample 
coverage of Hashemi, the Eli 
Whitney Students program and its 
participants still remain under the 
radar, relatively mysterious. 


My restraint eroded, I shot 
Dwight an email and asked if he 
would share his story. Instead of 
being offended that I'd violated 
his privacy, Dwight welcomed 
me into his world, insisting that 
I call hirn Dwight instead of Mr. 
Dickerson. 


"I arn more than willing to do 
this," he wrote. ''The question I 
pose is: are you?" 


The following week I find 
myself in a basement classroom 
in Rosenkranz Hall, where Norms 
and Deviance, Dwight's sociology 
class, meets every Monday. Taught 
by renowned ethnographer Elijah 
Anderson, the sen1inar covers 
the origins, development and 
reactions surrounding deviance in 
contemporary soctety. 


Dwight flips deliberately 
through his copy of John Hope 
Franklin's autobiography Mirror 
to America. The book details 
Franklin's path from childhood in 
segregated Oklahoma to serving 
as first black president of the 
American Historical society. 
Dwight has coated the book's 
pages with highlighter and penned 
notes. Unlike many undergrads at 
Yale, he actually seems to finish 
his reading. 


Anderson calls on him, and he 
launches into a comment, subtly 
gesticulating as he speaks. 
"I agree with Bianca's 
deduction that in parts of this 
book, Franklin tries to downplay 
his race." Dwight speaks slowly, 
taking ti rne to think and pause, 
picking just the right word. ''But 
even though he never directly 
alluded to it, there wasn't an hour 
where race wasn't an issue." 


"The fact that he's black and 
grew up in the inner city in the 
'60s and '70s gives hin1 a different 
perspective than a lot of the other 
kids in class," explains Professor 
Anderson, Dwight's professor for 
Norms and Deviance. ''But he 
doesn't bring his background into 
his cornrnents much, it just comes 
out with conunenta 1 y." He adds, 
without a hint of irony, "He's a 


--- Page 24 ---

\·cr} bright young man." 


\\"hile Dwight's two classes last 
semester, Norms and Deviance 
and Colonial Latin 1\merica, 
might seem a light workload to 
your aYerage )ale undergraduate, 
your aYerage Yale undergraduates 
also don't work 6 7 c..lays a week 
from 11 :30 p.m. to 6 a.m. And 
if they did, you would probably 
find those normal Yale students 
sleeping in their free time instead 
of playing piano for the local 
church band, volunteering at 
a program to aid previously 
incarcerated indh iduals readjust 
to everyday life and singing on 
sales-"\vorthy demo CDs. 


Dwight at his home srudio. 


Lastly, your average Yale 
stuc..lcnts probably don't know any 
of these things about Dwight. 


Both in and out of the 
classroom, when it comes to Eli 
Whitney students, a tacit policy 
of «don't ask don't tell"seems to 
be in effect. Younger Yalies don't 
want to seem rude by peppering 
their older peers with personal 
questions, and the Eli \X'hitney 
students keep quiet, wanting to 
assimilate as best they can. While 
this unofficial system protects 
the privacy of the Eli Whitney 
students, it also fails to honor 
the accomplishments that earned 
them positions at Yale. 


Dwight invites me to spend 
a Saturday with him so I can 
better understand his life outside 
academia. He begins the day at 
9:30 a.m. with band 
rehearsal for Sunday 
services at Church on 
the Rock, a cinderblock 
cube in ).Jew 
Haven's Long Wharf 
neighborhood. 


When! walk 
into the Church's 
airy auditorium, I 
immediately spot 
Dwight on the stage, 
leaning over the piano. 
He is dressed in his 
usual outfit: black 
Velcro sneakers, a black 
turtleneck tucked into 
jeans, and a gold cross 
on a chain. His oft-
worn Bulldogs sweatshirt drapes 
over a front row chair facing the 
stage. 


The room looks more like a 
United 
ations conference room 
than a place of worship. Flags 
from Japan, Brazil, Jamaica and 
Scotland hang on the back wall, 
and there arc no stained glass 
windows, carvings of saints, or 
other religious symbols anywhere 
in sight. The only sign of the 
room's function is an inscription 
carved above the stage: "For my 
house shall be called a house of 
prayer for all nations ... - Isaiah." 


Except for Dwight, a 
drummer, and a sprinkling of 
college-aged girls choreographing 
dances to gospel songs, the space 
is empty. Dwight checks his 
watch. It is pushing 9:50 a.m.; 
practice was slated to start twenty 
minutes ago. Dwight taps his 
foot an."<iously as his band mates 
slowly trickle in. He's on a tight 
schedule, and tardiness can throw 
things off. 


At around 10 a.m. the 
conductor of the Church on the 
Rocks band arrh~es, a tall, broad 
shouldered man named Jason. 
Dwight and Jason hug and slap 
each other on the back before 
Jason puts his arm around Dwight 
and leads him down the stairs 
off the stage. He summons the 
rest of the band, the dancers, and 
the singers to circle up. They join 
hands and .Jason leads the group 
in prayer, so impassioned he is 
almost shouting. 

"Call us forward to 
prepare us, Lord God, soldiers 
in your name Lord God. Let 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
us inspire the young people to 
explode in the midst of worship, 
Lord God. Make us ready, Lord 
God!" 

They release hands and 
assume their appropriate positions 
at instruments or microphones. 
Jason gives the go-ahead, and the 
music begins. 
Is it enough to gather in this place?The worship dancers 
twirl across the floor and make 
sweeping movements with their 
arms as if reaching to heaven. 
Is it enough to lift your hands in 
praise? The singers belt into their 
microphones, eyes closed, rocking 
back and forth. You want it all: my 
spirilj mind and heart. Amidst this 
emQtional scene, Dwight seems 
strit:ngely collected. He leans over 
his~ keyboard like a brain surgeon 
over his patient, meticulously 
following the notes on his music. 

Dwight loosens up a little 
bit for the next song. He taps 
his foot bobs his head, and in a 
rare moment of impulsiveness 
even sweeps his fingers across 
the keyboard. Perhaps because 
he's had to improvise so much 
in his life, Dwight adrnits he 
is mildly uncomfortable with 
musical spontaneity. He likes to 
have a plan, a blueprint that lets 
bitn know exactly what to do and 
when to do it. 
"I don't like to be 
vulnerable," he explains. 
April2010


After rehearsal ends, 
Dwight and I jump in his silver 
2003 Chrysler and drive to his 
home on Westminster Street. 
Painted onto his leg. 
"Sit, Elliot! You know 
better!" The dog drops to the 
floor for a few seconds before 
Dwight as a young trurnpeter 
surrounded by a snowy white 
picket fence, Dwight's house is 
inviting and homey. As we pull 
up behind the house Dwight 
rnutters something about needing 
to rake the "damn lea es," but 
otherwise he seems vet} proud 
of his home. He unlocks the door 
and a fluffy white dog catapults 
hopping up on my leg instead. 
"Elliot!)' D-wight warns. 
The dog hits the ground. "Elliot's 
my daughtees dog, but for some 
reason that I can't figure out, he 
likes me the best. Oooh," Dwight 
says, remembering something. He 
rnotions for me to come to the 
mantle. "C'mere I want to how 
you this." 
He holds up a faded 
photograph of a woman and a 
man standing in front of a brick 
building with a fire escape snaking 
down the exterior. The pair is 
nicely dressed- the man in a suit 
arid the woman in a skirt suit and 
hat with lacey appliques. Only the 
woman is smiling. 
"My parents," Dwight says, 
nearly whispering. 

Born November 6th, 1956, 
to Elmore and Dora Dickerson, 
Dwight was the ninth of ten 
children. Five were from Elmore's 
previous marriage and lived out 
of the house, while Bernice, 
Patricia, Donna, Dwight and 
Betty all grew up together in the 
Dickersons' cramped apartment 
in the _Morrissania neighborhood 
of the South Bronx. Dwight's 
mother stayed home to take care 
of her gaggle of children while 
his father worked as a mechanic 
for Con Edison Light and Power. 
Later, Elmore opened two 
Unoleurn·tile and carpet stores 
where the Dwight and his older 
siblings worked after school. 
Then, as now, poverty 
and desperation reigned in 
Morrissania. When Dwight played 
outside he had to watch for 
hypodermic needles discarded by 
neighborhood junkies and avoid 
known gang territories. Once 
Dwight was carrying groceries 
home when a group of men 
cornered him, guns cocked, and 
demanded he hand over all of his 
money. Though he immediately 
surrendered his wallet, the teens 
shot him in the thigh as they left. 
"Went straight through," Dwight 
informs me. After that, the pulse 
of gunshots often resonated in 
his head when he tried to sleep at 
night. 

Dwight credits a different kind 
of beat for keeping hitn out of 
trouble: music. When Dwight was 
nine, his father presented hitn 
with a guitar. Dwight mastered 
the riffs and chords so quickly 
that before a year had passed he 
was invited to play at his church's 
Sunday folk mass. Elmore 
scrounged to pay for lessons for 
his son. Before long Dwight had 
mastered the tenor sax, piano and 
accordion. While his friends from 
the neighborhood fooled around 
beneath the tracks of the Third 
Avenue elevated train, Dwight 
fooled around on his collection of 
mstruments. 
"I owe a lot to my Dad for 
introducit).g me to music," Dwight 
says with a sigh. "Paying for my 
music lessons was pretty much 
the only thing my Dad did that 
showed he had any faith in me. 
Otherwise he just told me I was 
good for nothing. That's part of 
the reason I am so determined to 
finish college." 
At ten years old, 
Dwight joined a newly formed 
competitive drum and bugle corps 
then called the Morrissanian 
Lancers .. Within a year, he had 
honed his skills enough to 
become the lead horn soloist. 
Dwight credits his involvement 
with the corps for keeping hiln 
"off the streets," though his tirne 
with the Lancers was also the 
closest he carne to being on them. 
At its foundation, the Lancers 
was a fusion of two Morrissanian 
street gangs - the Savage Skulls 
and the Imperial Bachelors. To fit 
in, Dwight felt he needed to join 
one. He picked the "Bachelors," 
where he eventually became the 
warlord, the leader of the gang. 
"They picked me as 
warlord because I was the least ... 
assurntng," Dwight remembers, 
his lips curling into a smug smile. 
"Everyone thought I was just a 
god-fearing, goody two-shoes 
Catholic school boy, which was 
pa r1 ia11y true. But it meant I could 
fly under the radar." 

Dwight ~sists that the gang 
didn't get in too much trouble. 


Yes, sometitnes they jutnped 
onto the backs of buses to get 
around for free, on occasion they 
"'"smoked herb," but it was the 
70s! Who didn't? The energy that 
most gangs would funnel towards 
violence, however, the Bachelors 
focused on music, teaming up 
with the Skulls to win many 
state and national competitions. 
"I was a lover, not a fighter," 
Dwight admits. Gang tensions fell 
away and the Lancers became a 
close-knit troop with a common 
purpose. Every member counted. 
Once, on the day of 
a competition, his father had 
grounded Dwight for talking 
back. He was sitting forlornly 
on his bed, fingering his Lancers 
uniform - black pants and a red 
satft_l jacket- which he'd laid out 
the night before in anticipation 
of the contest. Suddenly Dwight 
heard a honk and ran to the 
window where he saw two 
big coach buses pull up and 
discharge the Corps director, 
Carmela Saez. Carmela winked at 
Dwight through the window and 
disappeared inside Dwight's front 
door. Dwight's heart beat like a 
snare drum. After a few tninutes 
of suspense, Elmore opened the 
door and said simply: "Go." 
"It was my first experience 
with really feeling valuable - like 
I was part of a larger group. Man, 
if they were willing to drive up in 
two big buses to come get me, I 
must be worth something." 
Apri12010

Dwight's experiences 
with the Lancers are still very 
important to him. Dwight picks 
up a multi-photo frame inscribed_ 
with phrases like '"Wow!" '"What a 
night!" '"'"Let the good titnes roll!" 
An adult Dwight stares back from 
the photos, posing with various 
people in a hotel ballroom. 
"This is from a few years 
ago when I was honored by the 
Lancers," he explains, smiling 
down at the frame. "That's my 
wife, Loretta and those are the 
Lancers I used to jam with." 

Dwight served as the lead horn 
soloist for the Lancers until 197 5, 
when he graduated from Cardinal 
Hayes high school, -an all-boys 
catholic institution, and moved to 
Boston to attend Berklee College 
of Music. For two years, Dwight 
thrived on the regimented practice 
schedule, living and breathing in 
scales, majors, and sharps. 
But one day Dwight found 
that he couldn't practice any more. 
Something just felt wrong. Amidst 
the cacophony of horns, strings, 
pianos, and drums emanating 
from the practice rooms, Dwight 
felt empty. He needed more -
more stirnulation, more variety, 
and more choice. 

Dwight took tirne off to 
help with his father's_ business 
in the Bronx before enrolling at 
Howard University, a liberal arts 
institution, in 1979. The transfer 
allowed him to take politics and 
sociology as well as music. He 
loved Howard - he loved living 
in Washington, D.C., he loved 
his classes and his classmates. 
But it didn't last long. After only 
two years at Howard, in January 
1981, Dwight's mother, Dora, 
passed away. Dwight dropped 
out of school and returned to the 
Bronx to support his father and 
help hi tn run his linoleutn and 
carpet warehouses. Only a few 
months later, Elmore married a 
woman with whom Dwight soon 
discovered he'd been having a 
long-term affair, extending back 
far before his mother's death. 
When Elmore passed away 4! 
October of that same year, his 
new wife seized the fam11y's assets, 
leaving Dwight and his siblings 
virtually penniless. 
"It took me fifteen years 
to finally visit his grave," Dwight 
says, picking up a rolled American 
flag he'd taken from Elmore's 
burial site. "I felt a lot of anger 
towards him." 

With no reason to stay in



**Title: A Bridgeport Love Story**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
the ~ronx and no money to 
support hirnself, Dwight moved · 
to Bridgeport, Connecticut to 
live with his sister Patricia. There, 
he worked odd jobs at homeless 
shelters and restitution centers 
until meeting Loretta. 

W h en I ask how they met he 
laughs. 
"Well do you want the version 
I tell everyone or the real story?" 
Without waiting for an answer he 
launches into both. 
Dwight's sister lived 
across the street from a woman 
named Doris who ran a 
hairdressing business out of her 
home; Doris· immediately took a 
liking to Dwight and insisted on 
trying to set hirn up. One day she 
dernanded that he come over to 
her house because .there was a 
"nice Christian girl" she wanted 
him to meet. 

"The girl was nice enough, 
but she had this roorrunate that 
came to pick her up. I saw her pull 
up _in her car and I liked what I 
saw. When she rang the doorbell, 
you can bet I made sure to be the 
one who answered it," Dwight 
pauses and shakes his head, 
chuckling. "I always tell people 
that when I opened the door 
Loretta started drooling so much 
I had to ask her if she needed a 
napkin. In reality, it was probably 
the other way around." 
The couple was married 
on Valentine's Day of 1987 in 
Maryland, where they settled so 
D wight could finally finish his 
education at Howard. But Loretta 
was deeply unhappy living in 
Maryland. She missed her friends, 
and above all her church back 
in Bridgeport where her uncle 
served as the pastor. She was 
hom esick. 

"It got to the point where 
I would come home at night after 
work and find her sitting on the 
side of the bed crying," Dwight 
remembers. "Finally, I _asked 'You 
wanna move back?"' 
A close friend of Dwight's 
from Bridgeport put hirn in 
touch with another friend who 
was renting out his apartrnent on 
Auburn Street in New Haven. 
Without even looking at the 
apartment, Dwight and Loretta 
packed up their things and moved 
back to Connecticut, further 
postponing Dwight's college 
plans. 
Suddenly Elliot starts growling 
at the door. ''Elliot! Sit!" A key 
turns in the lock and the door 
opens to reveal a young woman 
overloaded with groceries. 
''A little help?" she asks. 
Dwight rushes to the door 
and takes most of the bags. 
"Lanna, this is Haley. She's 
following me around for a day 
because she thinks I'm interesting. 
Haley, this is m y daughter 
Ta'Lanna." 

Ta'Lanna sets her remaining 
bags on the kitchen counter and 
gives me a once over. "So you're 
stalking hirn for a day?" Laughing, 
she raises an eyebrow and says: 
"His life is not that interesting. His 
kids are all raised and working, he 
has a great job and goes to a great 
school. Sounds pretty easy to me. 
In addition to Ta'Lanna, 
a twenty one year-old junior at 
the University of 
ew Haven, 
Dwight has two other children: 
Chris, a twenty two year-old who 
recendy graduated with a B.A. 
Ta'Lanna, Dwight and Loretta 
in Theater from the University 
of Vermont and Andres, a 
thirty year-old son by a prior 
relationship who now lives in 
Texas with a wife and children. 
For years, Dwight has also 
provided for one of Ta'Lanna's 
friends, Clarissa, whose previous 
home life was in Dwight's 
euphemistic words, ''unhealthy." 
"We give Dad a lot of 
crap for going to Yale," Ta'Lanna 
continues. "Whenever he makes 
a mistake, or adtnits he doesn't 
know something we're like 
'What?! You don't know this?! But 
you go to Y/4 T .EF" Dwight's smile 
fails to mask his exasperation but 
Ta'Lanna rattles on. "He's gotten 
better but he certainly has his 
moments." 
"Lanna)" Dwight warns, in a 
voice that resembles the one he 
used to speak to Elliot. 
"Fine, well can I at least 
tell her the story about you at 
church that one titne? Please?" 

Dwight agrees and the tension 
dissipates as Ta'Lanna begins her 
stor with a laugh . 
"Dad doesn't get a lot of 
sleep so he's constantly 'resting 
his eyes.' At red lights, at the 
dinner table, whate er. Anyway, 
one day at our old church he was 
on stage because he'd played a 
trumpet solo, and he fell asleep 
during the preacher's sermon! The 
preacher was so offended that he 
turned around at one point and · 
shouted: am I BORI G you?!" 

Dwight counters, "Well 
it was 12:01. The sermon was 
supposed to end at 12. That was 
MY time." 
Dwight schedules his life 
down to the minute. If he didn't 
construct a daily plan to follow, 
he might break down, like a 
' helicopter without a blueprint. 

Ta'Lanna has satisfied her 
need to embarrass her Dad and 
Dwight is eager to show me other 
things. "Let me take you to my 
wife's favorite part of the house," 
he says, walking up the stairs. We 
walk down the hall and he opens 
the door to a large bedroom 
decorated in.rich beiges and 
brown. 

"Loretta decorated all 
this," he says, opening the door 
to the bathroom. ''I call this the 
bathroom, but Loretta calls it her 
palace." 

The room is large and airy 
with a bean-shaped Jacuzzi, huge 
vanity mirrors, and a glass-paned 
shower that houses a waterproof 
phone and radio. The sinks and 
ftoors are pink marble and it 
smells faintly of flowers. The 
toilet is hidden from the rest of 
the room, separated by a wall and 
a door. 

"This," Dwight says 
sweeping his hand across the 
room "is why I work." 
He explains that, seven 
years ago, Loretta developed 
gastric fibrosis and had to go on 
disability leave from her job at 
the Yale Child Studies Center. 
For a while she thought she'd be 
able to return to work but then 
the disease triggered problems 
with her pancreas, and on top of 
everything she developed lupus, 
a disease of the immune .system 
that causes joint pain, muscle 
pain, and chronic fevers. 
For the first year Loretta 
stopped working, Dwight had 
a hard titne making ends meet. 
In 2001, Dwight lost his job at 
aviation supplier G KN aerospace 
when they relocated to St. Louis 
after September 11th and for the 
next two years he juggled five 
temp jobs. He worked such long 
hours that he barely saw the 
family he was working to support. 
It was only in 2003, when 
Dwight landed his job at Sikorsky, 
that things got a little bit easier. 
His starting salary at Sikorsky 
was $55,000- more than his old 
illcome combined with Loretta's 
when she could still work - which 
allowed him to quit all his other 
jobs. 

Working at Sikorsky also 
allowed him to fulfill his lifelong 
drearn of finishing school. 
United Technology, the umbrella 
company that owns Sikorsky, runs 
an employee scholar program that 
completely covers the cost of the 
education of all its employees as 
well as offering paid study tirne. 
As an incentive for employees to 
pursue education, the company 
also presents them with a $10,000 
stock option upon completion 
of their bachelor's degree. This 
policy allowed Dwight to enroll at 
Yale, where he is set to graduate 
on May 24th, 2010. 
The ample benefit package is 
not the only reason Dwight loves 
working at Sikorsky. 
"I was born to be a machinist," 
Dwight insists as we walk into 
the plant, a, sprawling compound 
right off of the Merritt Parkway 
in Stratford. "I've always loved 
taking things apart, seeing how 
they work, and putting them back 
together." 
Dwight's role as a final line 
inspector does not require 
active building, but it is just as 
important. Blueprint in hand, 
Dwight scours his assigned 
helicopters millirneter by 
millirneter to make sure every last 
screw matches the plan. It hurts 
his eyes a "heck of a lot" but 
Dwight finds the job extremely 
fulfilling. He knows that if he 
makes one misstep there could 
be dire consequences. The safety 
of the helicopter's future crew 
-whether it be Army men, navy 
men or businessmen - is in his 
hands and on his eyes. 
We begin our tour of the 
Sikorsky plant at the blades and 
spars station. As we approach 
the rows of metal rods, Dwight




**Title: [Untitled]**
**Author: [Halley Dohen]**
**Page number(s): [31-32]**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
-
pushes me to the side as a forklift 
whizzes by,. nearly taking off my 
arm. 
. "This place .is chaotic like that. 
. 
You've got to watch yourself," 
he says handing me a pair of 
safety goggles that all employees 
and visitors are required to wear 
on the work floor. The complex 
is vast and mazelike, with long 
poorly lit hallways opening up to 
work stations. From the way he 
navigates it seems that Dwight 
could find his way around the 
factory in his sleep - and perhaps 
he has. He has spent the past 
six years working the graveyard 
shift six to seven nights a week. 
At first he tried to a:void working 
w~kend nights, but Sikorsky pays 
$1;000 for one night of overtime 
• • 
-an offer Dwight finds hard to 
refuse. 


Despite the amount of 
titne he has spent looking at 
helicopters, Dwight has never 
flown in one. On Sikorsky's 
annual fatni1y day, members of 
the Sikorsky ad rni nistration drive 
a number of helicopter models 
out onto the flight field ~here 
they allow employees and their 
fami1ies to sit in the luxurious 
leather seats and finger the 
controls, but the vehicles remain 
securely on the ground. 
''I wouldn't argue if they tried 
to give me one of those," Dwight 
says, palling one of the corporate 
helicopters, complete with wood-
paneled bars, which sell·for up to 
$15 million. 
"I would just park it in 
my front yard for the neighbors 
to gawk at. No _way I could pay 
for gas, but can you imagine?" 


Before we call it a · 
day, Dwight wants to show 
me som~thing special: a fleet 
of helicopters that Sikorsky 
is building for Obama. We 
wind through hangers housing 
completed helicopters and . 
storerooms with disembodied 
helicopter parts. We dodge 
forklift after forklift and weave in 
and out of a tour group of yoqpg 
children and teenagers dressed 
in camouflage. "Stratford Eagles: 
Stratford's Civil Air Force" I 
make out on their patches. 
"Did you know that the 
President actually flies with three 
helicopters so that potential 
terrorists don't know which one 
he's in?" Dwight asks as we walk. 
"It's an awful waste of fuel, but 
he is Obama." 


Finally we arrive at our 
destination: a door with a small 
wire-crossed window cut in it. 
We peek through the 
wired glass to catch a glimpse of 
the aitcraft, but a frowning guard 
taps at us from the other side and 
shakes his finger "no." 
"Aw, shucks," Dwight 
says, sighing. "Security on those 
birds is ti-ight." 


Defeated, he leads me 
to the cafeteria so he can get a 
· ·snack. I feel relieved. It is 3 p.m. 
and I have yet to see hitn eat or 
drink anything since I met him at 
9:30 a.m. I had started to wonder 
whether Dwight was a machine 
himself. 


The hot food area is closed, 
so he opts for something from 
one of the five vending machines 
in the lounge. He punches in 
D7 and watches intently as the 
mechanical springs move to 
eject a plastic wrapped blueberry . 
muffin from its roost. He waits 
a split second to claim his treat, 
trying to figure out the mechanics 
of the machine. 


Back at Yale, Dwight and I sit 
on a bench outside of William L . 
Harkness Hall, and we talk about 
his overall experience as a Yalie. 
Because he's so busy, Dwight 
has had little titne to get to know 
other undergraduates. In fact, 
in his five years at Yale, he tells 
me I am just the third person to 
inquire about his background. 
''Whether people ask me 
about my story or not is not the 
issue," Dwight explains. "Even 
though the Eli Whitney Students 
Program has been in existence 
for over 20 years, a lot of people 
don't know about it. It was alrnost 
as if Yale was hiding it." 


I had to put posefully dig 
to find infonnation on the 
Eli Whitney program and its 
students. The web site, a small 
subset of yale.edu, is oddly 
sparse. The promotional video 
in which Dwight appears, a short 
description, and a Frequently 
Asked Question s section are the 
only components. There is no list 
· of current or past E li Whitney 
students, or reports on their 
acco~plishments before enrolling 
at Yale. 


Presumably, this is to protect 
the privacy of the Eli Whitney 
students who 
like their 
Yale take classes. Yale doesn't 
publicize personal information 
or profiles about its other 
undergraduates, so why should 
the Eli Whitney students be 
treated differently? 


Most Yale undergrads speak of 
their classmates as the centerpiece 
of their Yale experience; they 
often claim geu ing to know 
other students is more important 
than classes themselves. It seems 
strange, then, that the Eli Whitney 
progra 111 accepts individuals with 
such unique life experiences, ·but 
does not provide a fra rnework in 
·which they can easily share them. 


If the program were m ore visible, 
other Yale undergraduates would 
be less fearful of intruding and 
more likely to engage their Eli 
Whitney classmates outside of 
lecture and section. 


The promotional video on 
the website, fihned and posted 
in 2008, represents Yale's recent 
.realization for a need. to publicize 
the Eli Whitrtey students 
program. 


''When I first saw that video," 
Dwight says pausing, "I cried. 
I used to walk around -campus 
looking at the buildings and think 
'how did I make it here? Am I 
even alive?'" 


Considering his 
circumstances, Dwight has done 
very well at Yale - earning 7 As 
and A-s in his 17 classes. 
"John Hope Franklin 
graduated Harvard with a 3.7," 
Dwight cormnen,ts, referring to 
the renowned black scholar whose 
biography he'd read in Norms and 
Deviance. "But during that tirne 
he didn't work, or have a wife, or 
kids. To me graduating Yale with a 
3.3 would be like graduating with 
a 4.0." 


Dwight credits his graduation 
frorn Yale to years of hard work, . 
sacrifice and the support of his 
fan1ily. Graduating from college 
has been his goal for over 30 
years, though he never dreamed it 
would be from Yale. 


"My father once told me that I 
would never amount to anything. 
Finally, I can stop trying to prove 
him wrong." 


A Yale Spanish professor 
once asked Dwight if there was 
anything she could do to help 
make her class easier for him. 
Dwight was struggling with 
conjugations and pronunciation, 
and couldn't seem to remember 
vocabulary. 


"I thanked her for her offer, 
but told her that I wasn't looking 
for any sp~cial treatment. I'm just 
a Yale student just like -any other. 
Except maybe a little older." 


Dwight has never taken 
handouts and doesn't plan on 
starting now. When the dean of 
Ezra Stiles College hands hitn his 
Yale diploma in May, it will be 
because he's earned it . 


Half!)' 
ohen is a junior in Davven-
port College and Co-Editor-in-Chief 
of TN] 
' 
'IH E NEW JOURNAL 





**Title: The Last Lobsterman**
**Author: SarahMich**
**Page number(s): 34-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
34 
The Last Lobsterman 
Is it the end of the line 
for Rich Gambarella's lobster business? 
~SarahMich 
R
ch Gambardella sets 
up shop at the corner of Chapel 
and Mill Streets, half a block 
past a drawbridge that separates 
a small Fair Haven inlet from 
the larger Long Island Sound. 
Stacked lobster traps sit at the 
end of the driveway near a small 
dock. Across the inlet is a giant 
pile of mulch, covered by a black 
tarp and held down by tires. At 
least twice a week for the past 
twenty years, Rich has watched 
th~ sun rise over this shiny 
plastic volcano as he heads out 
into the Sound-setting gear and 
pulling pots before returning to 
his New Haven Lobster Shop 
by two in the afternoon. He is 
the last lone lobsterman of New 
Haven. 

"We're very simple, very 
small. We don't draw attention 
to ourselves-not really used 
to press," he says as he walks 
me into his shop. "D on't mind 
the mess." Rich picks up empty 
plastic bags and moves them 
from the top of the freezer to 
the cabinet. There is a small 
makeshift kitchen to the right, 
where he sometimes cooks crab 
with Cajun seasoning, and a 
desk to the left, where he keeps 
an eight-cup coffee pot that 
he finishes off daily. Lobsters 
and rock crabs scuttle about a 
green basin in the back half of 
the store, separated by species 
and size with white lattice. The 
one-room storehouse is damp 
but clean, and smells more like a 
fresh tide pool than a fish tank. 

The way Rich tells the 
story, the sea was always in 
his blood. "My first memories 
are of fishing for big blackfish 
right here in New Haven," he 
says. Nevertheless, he stumbled 
into the lobster business 
unexpectedly. His uncle had 
been a lobsterman for thirty 
years when his brother-Rich's 
father--decided to join him in 
1990. Just few years later, Rich's 
father got hurt, so Rich stepped 
in. "My dad said I could fill in 
for him for two days. I've done it 
ever since." 

Rich has the outline of a 
lobster on his right forearm, a 
tattoo he got four years ago but 
has never had inked in. He hopes 
someday to add his lobstermads 
license number and his buoy color 
· to the body of the crustacean. 

Lobsters are very important to 
Rich, and he knows a lot about 
them. 

"They say a lobster can live a 
hundred years," Rich told me one 
Sunday afternoon in early April. 
"They· say they grow as much as 
75 pounds, and they daim they 
can live to be 1 00 years old." 

Since he began lobster fishing 
and selling in Fair Haven in 1999, 
Rich says the neighborhood 
demographic has trapsitioned 
fro~ Italian, to Black, to Puerto 
Rican. "Now it's all Latinos-
Guatemalans, Ecuadorians, 
Mexicans. All big fish eaters. 
Since Christmas, business has 
been great. It's been easy. They 
keep coming back." As he speaks, 
two women in a white car drive 
onto the gravel. ''Ah-see, here's a 
customer 
here comes one now. 
She was here yesterday. I close 
at 4 pm and it's 4:30. They're 
lucky. . . usually by halfway 
through Sunday I'm out of crabs." 

Inside, one of the women 
moves around the basin, past the 
signs that Rich has labeled conchs, 
corucha, scungilli. "iQue grande es!" 
She points to" a crab. 

''Ah yeah, you see a big one?" 
Rich says. 
2010 
"Two for me and two for 
her. And that one," the woman 
requests. 

Rich picks up a large rubber 
rake and scrapes the crabs 
towards the sun. 
"Gee ... you're 
making me reach all the way 
over there? You oughta get it." 

By this time of day, he explains, 
the best crabs are mostly picked 
through. Tomorrow morning, the 
stragglers will be sold wholesale, 
to be replaced by a fresh batch on 
Thursday. 

There is, arguably, one 
other lobsterman in New Haven, 
a fifty-year old man named 
Johnny. He and his wife Rose 
stop by at five o'clock to pay their 
thanks for the rock crabs Rich 
gave thetn last night. ''Those were 
delicious, Richy. Salty. Definitely 
salty. I was spiu ing up salt this 
morning." 

Johnny and Rich have 
known each other since they were 
kids and they share the waters 
of the New Haven Sound. Rich 
sets his traps at depths between 
40 and 98 feet, and Johnny takes 
the shallower water. Rich's boat is 
bigger, though, and his business 
is full-titne. ''Johnny's boat could 
probably fit on the back of mine," 
Rich tells me later, "which is why 
they might call me the last true 
lobsterman. But don't tell that to 
Johnny." 

There is no doubt they're 
different men. Johnny has many 
more tattoos; a Technicolor 
mermaid swirls around his right 
shoulder. He speaks more loudly 
and more often than his friend. 
Johnny's gestures reach closer 
to your face; Rich's are more 
conservative. When the two of 
them talk, they reminisce about 
the lore of the Sound. "In the last 
five or six years all the old-tirners 
have retired and gotten out of 
it. There used to be five in New 
Haven, and seven fishing in our 
part of the Sound," Rich says. 
"But even then, Richy, 
we're probably the only two guys 
who got along," Johnny adds. 
''Richy could call me and say 'I 
need ya,' and I'd be there. The old 
guys were worried about what the 
other guys were doing. It was boat 
for boat." 

Johnny wi11 be fifty-one 
next week. He mentions this, 
and Rich turns and puts his hand




**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Sarah Mich**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
-
• 
< 
to the side of his mouth for a 
loud aside. ''You see that~- I'm 
only forty. I still have ten rriore 
years on the incline before I head 
downhill like that." 
. 
. . . 
. . 
. . . . . . . . . . . . 
RICH HAS THE 
OUTLINE OF 
A LOBSTER 
• ON HIS RIGHT -· 
• • 
' 
FOREA 
,A 
TA 
OOHE 
GOT FOUR 
__.ARS AGO. 
*** 
-. : 
In local lobster lore, 
___ -
1999-will forever be kriown as 
an apocalyptic year. Connecticut 
lobstermen like Rich and Johnny 
started pulling pots full of dead 
lobsters. Scientists thought the 
h<;)t surmer had warmed the 
Sound, weakening the lobsters' 
immune systems and making 
them vulnerable to parasites. 
'!'he lobstermen, for the most 
part, blame a pesticide blitz that, 
combined with sununer storms, 
drained chemicals into the Sound. 
"There was nothing left to 
fish. People lost their licenses. 
It was a war back then." Johnny 
says. Lobster levels still haven't 
snapped back to the way they _ 
were before. 
Rich agrees. ''It stopped being 
April2010 
predictable. You used to know 
. exactly when the lobster. would be 
·. 
coming May 15, then May 20. 
You could tell by the barnacles. 
After 1999, we had to just wait 
and see." 
While they waited, though, 
the fishermen broadened their 
nets. Conch fishing has kept Rich 
in· business, allowing him to hang 
onto his equipment and shop, 
_always hoping for the lobster to 
feturn in greate~ number. "That's 
·what's in my heart ... to me, each 
~h~llfish has a cycle. Right now 
w~'re in a low, and we have been 
for the last seven or eight years. I 
don't know how long it's going to 
take to come back, but I think it's 
. going back up." 
_ On ~e water,· Rich guides 
his boat along lines that run 
North and South on the Sound 
sinking his lobster pots to the 
ocean floor, eight to each buoy, 
fifteen buoys every mile. There is 
no TV, no radio, no boss, and his 
wedge boat is a "big heavy, good 
sea boat from Canada" that he 
bought with a forme£- business 
partner a1tnost ten years ago. 
If the lobster were to 
return in force, Rich thinks the 
business could be lucrative. Rich's 
twelve year-old daughter Kristin 
likes to go out on the boat with 
~ 
and next year, the boat will 
bear her narne. He imagines 
that some day he might pass the 
business on to her. 
•• 
While Rich is helping :~ "" ·: 
customer, Johnny pulls the largest 
· of the lobsters from the tank. 
He touches a finger to one of 
its claws. This orie, he guesses, is ~ . 
fifty-five years old. 
As Rich finishes with the· , 
customer, Johnny looks toward . ...:_ 
them and rests his hands on the · · 
· edge of the tank. "You know, this 
business isn't luck, it's skill." The 
work is dangerous, his wife, R~se,. 
often reminds him, and business 
has been draining. "I guess having 
your wife and kids say some Hail ~ · 
Mary's every day doesn't hurt 
either." 
p 
The customer walks out 
the open door of the shop, a bag 
of half-century old crustaceans 
swinging from her hand. The 
lobsters inside cling to its plastic 
edges; that was the last sale of 
the day. Before dawn the next 
rnorning, Rich will ready the traps 
and head out on the Sound once 
more. 
Sarah Mich is a junior in Sqybrook 
College and senior edior of TN].


**Title: CRITICAL ANGLE Search Engine Failure**
**Author: Helen Gao**
**Page number(s): 38**

Chinese Y a lies I uncensored views of Google Is China controversy 
H
alfway through 
January, Google announced on 
its blog that they would soon 
be taking "a new approach to 
China." The decision was sparked 
by an alleged cyber attack on 
Google's corporate infrastructure. 
The company believed their 
attackers were Beijing government 
officials. 
"We launched Coogle. en in January 
2006 in the belief that the benefits 
of increased access to information for 
people in China ... outweighed our 
discomfort in agreeing to censor some 
results" read the announcement. 
As time passed, however, Google 
continued, "[these} attacks and 
the surveillance thry have uncovered-
-combined with the attempts over the 
past year to further limit free speech on 
the web--have led us to conclude that 
we should review the feasibility of our 
business operations in China. " 
Three months later, in March, 
Google took action. It took a 
stance against China's censorship 
and began redirecting all mainland 
searches to the uncensored 
Google engine based in Hong 
Kong. 
38 
by Helen Gao 
On January 13,2010, after four 
years of flying relatively under 
the radar in China, Google's fame 
peaked overnight. Now, it Now, 
Google was more than a search 
engine: it was a controversy. Its 
fame skyi:ocketed overnight. 
Debates araged amongst mong 
bloggers, computer scientists, 
entrepreneurs and human right 
supporters stormed American 
media. The American media 
eagerly followed the drama. Here 
at Yale, the Chinese students' 
panlist was Hooded with heated 
commentary: "It is apparendy the 
conspiracy of some ill-intended 
capitalists and the manipulated 
government to further destroy 
China's international image!" one 
student barked. 
Government-GoogleTensions 
between the government and 
Google tensions had grown 
graduallyhad grown gradually as 
after 2008 as ChinaChina built 
it's so-called "Great Firewall" 
higher and higher .. Thousands 
of blogs and search terms were 
eliminated in the government's 
"anti-pornography campaign." 
Google complied with the the 
governments's censorship 
demands until December 2009, 
when they fell victim to a 
cyber attack that they believed 
originated from Mainland China. 
Further investigation traced 
the attack to an elite Chinese 
university with the nation's top 
computer science program, and 
a vocational school that was a 
feeder of computer specialists to 
the military. It The attack targeted 
the G Gmail accounts of several 
Chinese human right activists. 
These facts put put together 
convinced the Western media of 
the involvement of the Chinese 
government. 
that the Chinese government 
had been involved. 
Google China, for all the 
political controversy it has now 
generated, had less of a force in 
my lifepresence in my life growing 
up in Beijing than the American 
media may have American 
commentators might assume.d. 
Google is certainly a part of the 
Chinese netizen's daily vocabulary, 
but the company doesn't have a 
strong grasp on the market. 
My mom, for instance, 




**Title: Baidu vs. Google**
**Author: Helen Gao**
**Page number(s): 40-41**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
trying to find a good recipe for 
a chicken dish, will exclaim "I'll · 
Coogle it!" but open Baidu instead. 
Baidu is China's domestic search 
engine. The word Baidu, literally 
meaning "hundreds of times", 
comes from a poem written 
· eight centuries ago. For the 
Chinese, the word it suggests the 
persistent search for the ideal. It 
• 
was l~unched in 2000, six years 
before Google entered China. 
During those six years, millions 
of Chinese families entered the 
digital world and first experienced 
the c·onvenience of having 
endless streams of information 
lie only one just a click away. For 
most Chinese, this convenience -
carries the nametag of Baidu. 
I .ike my mother, when in 
China, I use Baidu when I'm 
home in China. The company 
boasts a tnarket share of 63.9 
0/o while Google owns a mere 
third of that amount. The 2006 
founding of Google China may 
have been a big move for those 
Western investors coveting 
China's fast-growing market, but 
it has barely affected the lives of 
ordinary families like mine. 

Amidst the groWing media 
frenzy, some of my Chinese 
friends scoff. "Google is a big 
company, and they got attacks 
almost everyday, from not just -
China but all over the world. 
Why have they never complained 
until now?" one student wrote to 
Yale's Chinese students' panlist. 
He thinks the move is more 
about saving face than saving 
information. He is not alone in 
his argument. The Global Times, 
China's biggest English-language 
daily newspaper, recendy 
announced that 70 percent of 
Chinese polled believe Google's 
threat to exit China as a result of 
its failure to compete with Baidu. 
Maybe so. But a quick look at 
the cases of other international 
business trying to enter markets 
in Asia reveals that other 
corporate giants like McDonald's 
and Starbucks also struggled for 
years before they finally reached 
their desired market share. The 
process requires initial losses, but 
ultimately pays off. 

From Google's perspective, 
a cost-benefit analysis shows 
litde economic reason to leave . 
In truth, the underperformance 
of its branch in China will barely 
cause the company to sweat: 
Analysts estitnate Google's China 
business is a modest 1 percent. 
to 2 percent of its $6.5 billion 
in annual net profit. But by 
leaving China so soon, Google is 
abandoning the largest potential 
market in the world. 

So if the move is not about 
money, then what's it about? Just 
as Western observers suggest the 
Chinese government was behind 
the most recent cyber attack, 
many Chinese suspect that the 
United States government plotted 
Google's departure from China. 
There has long existed, after 
all,After all, there has long been 
tension between China and the 
US regarding the topic ofissues 
of media freedom. Emails sent 
betweenMany of Yale's Chinese 
students students atsupport this 
"conspiracy theory" rnodel. They 
decriedln recent emails to their 
panlist, they credit Google's move 
as an attempt by US government 
to further destroy China's 
international ilnage. 

Other students view the 
controversy as the result of a 
difference in cultural expectations. 
"Chinese people nowadays tend 
not to believe things the way 
they are told and always suspect 
there are things left unspoken. 
American people, on the other 
hand, do believe, because of 
the transparency of its society," 
Chinese Yale student Ge Yang '10 
pointed out. 

7,000 miles away from Yale, 
Chinese youth, the most avid 
users of Internet, remain mostly 
silent. Besides the bunches 
of flowers left in front of 
Google's Beijing headquarter to 
lament its departure, Google's 
announcement has little brought 
little buzz to China itself. After 
all, With the poor state of the 
job market and skyrocketing 
apartment prices in China, what is 
there to fret over in not being able 
to read about Dalai Lama? 
Helen Gao is a junior i11 
Davenport College. 
April2010


**Title: Interior Design**
**Author: Kate Lund**
**Page number(s): 42**

T
he fust figure to greet 
anyone entering my father's 
second-floor apartment was the 
Martini Lady. Printed on poster 
board, she stood with her hip 
jutted, strong-jawed and slouch~ 
in a red strapless cocktail 
dress. Her hair was cut short 
and her raised hand exposed 
an unshaved armpit; I never 
knew if these spiky black tufts 
emphasized Martini's dykiness 
or exposed her to be not a lady, 
but a delicate man. 

Despite her vamping, Martini 
was a welcome sight. Whenever 
I went outside with my father, I 
wanted desperately to get back 
in. Seattle's freeway was a direct 
shot to his apartment, but if he 
needed groceries, we'd detour 
along South Broadway, 
the 
gayest street in the second-gayest 
city in America. My father knew 
everyone on the avenue. As we 
passed men with hoops in their 
earlobes and Calvin Klein briefs 
peeking over their low-slung 
jeans, he'd greet them with a kiss 
on the lips and introduce me, 
hiking his voice into a higher 
register. I was never at ease 
with these men, and I didn't feel 
myself loosen until we turned 
off Broadway and the streets 
took on the same calm feel of 
the sleepy neighborhood where 
I lived six days out of seven 
with my mom. When I finally 
met eyes with Martini, I was like 
a sprinter crossing the capture-
the-flag line from deep in enemy 
territory, safe at last. 

Unlike the house I lived in 
with my mother, my father's 
apartment was furnished by 
selection, 
not accumulation, 
and each room looked torn 
from a catalogue on interior 
design. As early as elementary 
school, I perceived something 
threatening beneath the soft 
lighting and sleek Scandinavian 
furniture. A framed sketch of 
a cartoon king had pubic hair; 
a gridded poster in my father's 
room depicted a finger indenting 
a nipple; in the kitchen, a black 
man licked melted ice cream 
off his partner's balding head. 
~!agazine racks displayed issues 
of 0Ht and GQ, whose covers 
exhibited some variation on 
the words HOT HOT HOT 
superimposed over gleaming 
pectorals. What wasn't on the 
walls, I uncovered myself. Once, 
I grabbed something in my 
father's closet, and a cascade 
of birdseed scattered across 
the floor, leaving me gripping 
an empty leg of pantyhose. He 
explained that he had gone to 
a drag party that weekend, and 
filled them to make breasts. 
Another 
time, 
I 
remember 
handling a familiar Christmas 
tree ornament, and lifting its 
skirt to see two sewn-on jewel 
balls attached beneath a tiny 
beaded penis. 

Every Friday, 
my father 
hung his coat on the rack beside 
Martini and closed the door to 
the apartment. We were home. 
* 
result 
from 
one 
of 
the world's most deliberate 
conceptions; my father was the 
accident. He'd agreed at twenty-
eight to donate his sperm to my 
mother, Annette, a forty-year-
old lesbian determined to have 
a biological baby before the last 
slow tick of her biological clock. 
Arranged by a third party, I was 
conceived 
through 
artificial 
insemination. My parents never 
met, nor did they plan to. But by 
the time I reached toddlerhood, 
my mom's partner had split and 
I was down a parent, so she 
decided to invite my father over. 
He showed up with his then-
boyfriend D avid, which caused 
some lingering confusion («My



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Kate Lund**
**Page number(s): 43-45**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
·dad is John and David!" I told 
people for weeks), but things 
went smoothly enough for my 
mom to 1ssue a second invite. 
Gradually, Plan A was discarded. 
Three . years and nine months 
after his initial contribution ' 
John Leonard became my father. 
Throughout 
my 
school 
years, neither of my parents 
had a partner, and the not-
so-keen observers at parent 
potlucks were quick to read 
them 
as 
affable 
divorcees. 
Sexuality aside, I can't think of 
an unlikelier union. At a titne 
when my mother was routinely 
mistaken for my grandmother, 
my father could bring a bottle 
of wine to the checkout stand 
and still, from titne to tirne, get 
carded. Annette Lund makes 
flight-option spreadsheets; John 
Leonard misses planes. Pop 
~ultm.e barely sneaks its way 
rnto .·my mother's house. She 
.. 
~ -
pretqr much only listens to Joni 
Mitchell; for years, we had no 
Tv. 
But 
perhaps 
most 
importantly, my mother is not 
that gay. She never came out to 
her parents; she didn't send tne 
to any two-mommy playgroups. 
With time, she came to identify 
more with heterosexual parents 
than 
the 
childless 
lesbians 
she had known. Given the 
Northwest 
penchant 
for 
comfort -conscious 
outerwear ' 
Seattle streets are lined with 
women in fleece and orthopedic 
Keens, so my tnotn never stood· 
out as unfeminine. But until 
I asked him not to, my dad 
would walk onto the Lowell 
Elementary playground wearing _ 
a 
hoodie 
advertising 
GAY 
CITY, 
HIV 
prevention 
orgamzatton he had founded. 
April2010 
I couldn't make my father fade 
into the background. 
· 
•• 
* 
Every Friday during middle · 
school, I'd drop my coat at 
Martini's feet, _kick off shoes 
and socks, and .sit cross-legged 
on the couch, waiting for the 
central ritual of my weekly 
visits to begin. My father would 
bring a blanket, and facing each 
other on opposite ends of the 
couch, I'd read aloud 
to a 
man who averaged a book a 
year 
a single chapter of Harry 
Potter. Our ritual was best on 
rainy days. My father · wocld 
warm my pruny feet under the 
blanket while I sucked on cough 
drops to recover from the latest 
round of nasal British accents I 
affected to win his laughter, like 
applause. We made it through 
the first four vohunes this way, 
ninety-four 
chapters, 
1,824 
pages overall. 
-
Dad's Day, as we came 
-· 
to call it, was an exercise in 
distilled parenting. Infused with 
the deliberateness of a fatniiy 
relationship 
pursued 
once 
weekly, Fridays with my father 
never failed to be quality tirne. 
This meant rituals. Before Harry 
Potter, we took turns reading 
from 
D'Aulaire's 
~Book of 
Greek Myths and covering the 
walls of my room with drawings 
of the goddesses. Before that ' 
the heart of Dad's Day lay in the 
weaving of five blindingly tiny 
rows on tny authentic Native 
American 
miniature 
beading 
loom, snacking while we let 
our eyes rest, then squinting 
our way across five tnore rows. 
For years, I recycled any joke 
that earned its place within our 
father-daughter pantheon: the 
"easy-to-assemble lamp" that 
never got completed, the trendy 
uncomfortable furniture, 
fact it t?ok hitn three Junes to 
read Three Junes. 


And so, surrounded by gay 
paraphernalia, I occupied my 
father's space with a stubborn 
adherence to the ·· culture of 
WHEN 
FATHER'S 
THIRTIES 
C 
ETOA 
CLOSE, HE 
THREW A 
HUGE PUCK 
FOR 
COS-
TU 
PAR 
childhood. Our best joke and 
best 
ritual 
happened 
every 
Friday night. ''Tuck me in!" I'd 
yell, and my father would leap 
up from wherever he was and 
-run to my bedside, his hands 
stuffing the blankets under the 
ntattress in a manic display of 
thoroughness. I'd kiss hirn on · 
the cheek and he would say 
goodnight. But in the sliver 
of the door shutting behind 
hirn I could always see a slice 
of the Martini lady, cleavage 
spouting above her bandeau ' 
and I'd feel my stornach tighten. 
Surrounded 
by 
signs 
but 
cushioned by assntned illiteracy, 
I feared a tirne when I might be 
called upon to understand the 
language. 
The older I grew, the rnore


the apartment 
closed to the 
outside world 
became the one 
place I could interact with my 
father on my own kiddish terms. 
His friends were kind to me, but 
they were just too edgy. One 
April, my father organized an 
egg hunt at one of his friend's 
houses and I came home sulky, 
complaining that the last time I 
checked, the real Easter Bunny 
didn't drink beer or smoke 
cigarette. At gatherings, ·he was 
constantly depositing me with 
some snarky dyke comedienne, 
only to find me alone in the 
garden 
ten 
minutes 
later, 
observing somebody's terrier. 
I knew I should try harder. 
But I didn't want to talk to 
these people on the plane of 
equivalence adolescence would 
provide. And I especially didn't 
want to be a teenager around my 
father, who was too young, too 
current, claiming the cultural 
and sexual territory I wanted for 
my own. 
When my father's thirties 
came to a close, he threw a huge 
FUCI< FORTY costume party 
in a rented space near Broadway. 
I showed up early with my 
mother to make an appearance 
b_efore the party really started, 
wearing a bra for the first time. 
Only a handful of _ people 
had arrived, and I circUlated 
from guest to guest, doing my 
best to make cute, exuberant 
conversation. At one point, 
my father sidled up to me and, 
indicating a man on the opposite 
side of the room, cracked a joke 
about his outfit: red body paint 
and a black leather thong. It was 
a real gay man joke told just for 
me 
campy, blunt, the kind I'd 
hear hitn make to his friends 

when discussing something like 
Monica Lewinsky's make-up. 
I feigned confusion. What 
defense did I have except to act 
younger, remain a child who 
could still, in innocence, walk 
eyes open through . a parent's 
sexual world? But I felt a stab 
of shame at my . own evasion. 
Now that I was thirteen, I was 
. 
spending more and more time 
swatting aside my father's offers 
of parity. I wasn't _ ready . for us 
to be equals. All I wanted was to 
return to the apartment~ where 
I could close my doors to GQ, 
and from within the walls of a 
bedroom decked out in my own 
pastel renderings of Aphrodite, 
wait for my father~s hands to 
tuck me in . . 
. * 
· Middle 
marched 
forward into high school. The 
half-done lamp continued to 
serve as a mockable floor piece, 
but I was starting to worry. We 
needed new vocabulary, and 
'-"I 
ASIDE, I C 
'T 
THINIZOF AN 
UNLil 
LIER 
UNION 
the ice cream men and nudie 
king sketch bore down on me 
with accusation. Gayness was 
fair game if abstracted through 
art or politics 
the crazies in 
the Bush A 
· · stration, The 
Laramie Project. But I knew I 
wasn't asking more about my 
father's AIDS work because 
• •
I 
feared the sex content of 
his answers. Who· ·else's father 
emceed anti-barebacking forums 
called "The Greatest Hole on 
Earth?" There were whole parts 
of his history I only knew about 
in pieces: the former boyfriends, 
the plague years of the eighties, 
the fully sketched story of his 
corrung-out. 
All those high school years 
in the apartment, I was haunted 
by who I might have been if I'd 
been raised entirely by my father. 
In . a blue state, his brand of 
gayness was not a liability but an 
asset: what could be. cooler than 
having a dad who was ex-besties 
with . a nationally syhdicated sex 
columnist? But I had fallen-short 
of claiming my inheritance. Side-
by-side, we looked like a fixer 
duo o;ut of Queer Eye. I felt 
stung whenever he suggested I 
. take my hair out of a messy bun 
and censoriously handed me a 
hairbrush. 
And 
so 
forays 
into 
teenagerdom 
and 
cultural 
literacy 
prom! first peacoat! 
familiarity with the films of 
Wes 
Anderson! 
were 
concealed. 
denied 
having 
crushes and never shared my 
tentatively emerging music taste, 
even as I eyed his cabinets full 
of alb{uns. I was so intimidated 
by his 
style-commentary that 
on Fridays, I dressed myself in 
T-shlrts. Flipping through his 
DVD collection, my father would 
always joke that we should settle 
for my favorite, Finding Nemo. 
"Don't you want to update 
your room?" my father often 
asked when he stopped in to find 
me, his curiously studious child, 
bent over my desk. My room in 


the apartment had the satne 
old things on the walls it always 
had: drawings of Demeter and 
Aphrodite from the Greek 
Myths phase, pictures from 
the Harry Potter movies. But 
I never· could decide how to 
replace them. I ·came in one 
day to see a poster for the 
Seattle 
International 
Fihn 
Festival hung above my bed. 
He figured I needed something 
current. 
My father moved to San 
Francisco the fall of my senior 
year of high school, but didn't 
sell the apartment until the 
nine months later, after I 
graduated. Busy putting my 
own belongings into boxes 
for the trek to college, I only 
showed up to help him the 
verY.. last day. The apartment 
had been gutted and all that 
•. 
was left to do was move 
the remaining boxes out of 
the basement storage space. 
Lugging files and folders in the 
still heat of August exhausted 
us, so after an hour,.we stopped 
to have a drink with some ·of 
my father's friends who lived 
on the other side of Broadway. 
Sitting on the porch with three 
gay men, I felt the detachment 
of an anthropologist, involved 
yet marginal. I ate more chips 
and guacamole than the three 
of them put together because I 
didn't have as much to say. 
Back at the apartment, I 
was impatient to finish the last 
round of loa · 
up. Carrying 
my fathees boxes to the curb,· 
I thought of my own boxes 
geu ing shipped off to my 
dorm room at Yale, and how 
little attention I'd given to what 
I would put up on the walls. At 
first, I had planned on pursuing 
an aesthetic 
my father had 
brought table runners and 
mood lighting and 
candle 
holders made of sea glass to 
college 
but quickly discarded 
the idea as overcalculated. I 
settled for shoving a few travel 
postcards and a painting of 
the Cascade Mountains into 
the bottom of my suitcase and 
calling it a day. 
Tired 
sweaty, 
we 
trudged up to the second-floor 
apartment one last titne. At 
the entrance, I kicked off my 
flip-flops to walk barefoot on 
the hardwood. Light flooded 
the open space. Our silence 
sounded without the mute 
of visual interference, and 
not knowing what else to do, 
I sat down in the center of 
the room. Even from where 
he stood by the window, 
my father loomed over me, 
enormous. This is it, I thought. 
This is what I've wanted, to 
be surrounded by bare walls. 
This is not something worth 
wanting. But here, with our 
accessories packed up in boxes, 
I felt an unfarniJiar comfort. In 
the moment before my-father 
stepped 
forward 
to 
kneel 
down beside me, our eyes 
locked across the width of the 
apartment, a tilted plane of 
contact m an empty room. 
Kate Lund is a sophomore 
in Silliman College 



**New Haven's Catch-All Catch Phrase**
**Author: Bob Jeffery**
**Page number(s): 46-47**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
'It's the stuff of legends: "what happens in Vegas stays in Vegas." This slogan invokes a city of unadulterated 
debauchery where strippers are outnumbered only by slot machines and mistakes don't count. This promise 
of impunity has successfully seduced countless ·middle-aged men into squandering their savings and 
shattering their marriages in the city of sin. Yet as some know all too well, not everything stays in Vegas. Its 
. only after waking up with a spouse, a lawsuit, and/ or Chlamydia that we realize the sobering truth: we've 
been duped.


Most would agree that New York really is the "City that Never Sleeps." But the motto of Houston, TX, 
formerly "space city: a space of infinite possibilities" 
was a little too ... out there. So the city learned a 
thing or two from shampoo commercials and adopted a new unofficial catch-phrase: 
.. 
'Houston: It's worth it!"


And apparently the L'Oreal knockoff has been working. The Houston tourism website has generated · 
tens of thousands mo~e hits and sold almost as many tee-shirts, and it may soon become the city's official 
tagline. (It's unclear what the outcome would have been had they taken the Herbal Essences route: "I've got 
the urge ... for Houston!")


How does New Haven's motto measure up? As a six-college town with transient four-year residents, 
what happens here, leaves here. And many of those same residents would argue they never get enough sleep. 
But those mottos were taken. What did the city decide? 
• 
'New Haven: It all happens here!"


Well, surely it doesn't a// happen here (the Chlamydia happened in Vegas). And even if we dismiss the 
"all" as hyperbole, the "it" remains ambiguous: exactly what happens in New Haven? 
If the past is any indication, quite a bit happens. We boast the first lollipop and the very first hamburger, 
the first Frisbee and the first game of football. Sulfur matches, electric trains, elevators and steamboats - all 
of them first happened here. We can also stake claim to the very first erector set, the very first public tree 
planting program and the very first pair of rubber overshoes! 


One claim TNJ finds contestable is that Vitamin A (described as ''the first fat soluble substance!) 
was discovered and produced in New Haven. Carrots of the world beg to differ, but we'll let it slide. 


New Haven never alerted TNJ to any sort of motto contest, and never asked us to be on their motto 
planning board. We would have enjoyed such a position, and since we've got a way with words, we thought 
we'd give it a try, just in case the city ever wants to change: 


NEW HAVEN ... 
-
Where Yale is (for the particularly myopic) 
The city that never sleeps soundly (for New Haven's Red Bull devotees) 
Just an "E" away from New Heaven (Add twenty dollars for three kiwis and a #2 
and we'll make it gourmet!) 
Toad'sally Awesome (for the party hoppers among us) 


Our motto may not be perfect, but at least New Haven has bettered Connecticut's current catch 
phrase (yes, CT also has one): "Closer than you think." This indirect admission that not much happens 
in Connecticut is modest, and their insistence that we should still come visit because it's close to where 
stuff does happen is endearing: 'We're not that far from New York City! Honest!" And we definitely have 
Stamford, "The City that Works," beat in the motto department. Maybe the city works, but that slogan just 
doesn't.

Bob Jeffery is a junior in Berkeley college, 
and managing editor of 
. 
April 2010

