Publication date: November 10, 2000
Volume: 33
Issue number: 3

**MASTHEAD**
- EDITOR-IN-CHIEF: Al4n Schomftlti
- MANAGING EDITORS: jessica Bulnum, An)w IVtmmd:z
- DESIGNER: Tati6na jiiJttlff
- PRODUCTION MANAGER: fiuiJMiJ/er
- BUSINESS MANAGER: Si/pti/Yrkhtrla
- PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR: WhimqGrrla
- ASSOCIATE EDITOR: &nmGillti"J
- RESEARCH DIRECTOR: DtmiJ~PhMn
- CIRCULATION AND SUBSCRIPTIONS MANAGERS: MUiko H1111m11ri, Blilh WJ-
- STAFF: Jacob 8lcdlu • OiAcon Carroll • Alaaadu o.on-ia • San Hindlbom • Cut H~ • Sydney lawns • Patrick c_, Pita • Don Tontiplapbol • Manlww Underwood • NnJn...Jo;- • Pmr 8. Cooper • Michad Gabu • Tom Grigs • &oob Kdlq • Jcnllikr Pita • Heruy Sdlwab • Elizabcdt Slcdce • md Scldqh • Thomas SuonJ • Ridwd Blow • Jay c.-, • Richant ConaiiF • IWth Coaailf. • Elioha Coopu • ....._ Rabin • s-en wa-.n • Donid Yap..
- PRINTERS: S.....llollooo•A-.M . ..... Jr.•l!llaiot....._ • Edw..d 8 ...... Jr. • Edw...t 8 ........ Ill • ,._. s. ........ GcnW lind • ...... 8und • ,., Canoq • OopMc a. . joo6o em. • ,.......... M. Ootk • c-a.-• EJioha C>opcr • l'toor 8. C>opcr • Aa4y Cooon • Jerry ..... Rae Cowt • Mui Denioon • Al>atJ ..... • Mn. H-..1 .... • Dmd "-• CeoK..,. Frial•""""' Gandora • sa-.;. Gold- • Dmd ~ • T- Grigo • s.p.... Hdl.oe • ,_ "--&y . ....... Kdoy • ...... ICirwoool • ,_,_ J. "'-coli. Jr. • Lcwio £. ~ • ..... ,__. £. NoWa ,__ • HaM~. • Manho £. Neil• ~Neil • H-.1 H. New.. • S.... O'Brien • Julie Pam • Lewis ..... ,_. ...... • Jooh Plaut • Julia ,_ • l..ouftn RaiNa • Foilfu c. IWidal • Rcllin Rig~ • Mutt RMda • Nicloaloo X. Rizopouloo • Scuon Rolwr • Adoao ucl AnNw • Did< ..... ~ • s.... • Ridoood Sllidda • .... H-.- Si<l<s • Uoa Siha-. • EJiaollall ................... n.-. s...,.. • Elialocdo T- • Ala ....t 8aor Toodo • Woliooo T- • .U.. .... SuM w..ddl • Doaid Yap. ....t ""ada Scmt Yap


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
FEATURES
8 Masters ofthe Universe - Alexander Dworkowitz
12 The Last Picture Show - Andrew Cowdery
18 Carnival Knowledge - Bidisha Banerjee
21 Poet of the Land of Promises - Anya Kamenetz
STANDARDS
4 Points of Departure
26 Essay: Deliverance - Danitl Kurtz-Phtlan
28 The Critical Angle: A Stover for Our Time - Alan Schomfold
rtvitwing ]ot College - Tom Ptrrotta
30 Endnote: Bringing up the Rear - Matthtw Undtrwood


**Title: Masters of the Universe**
**Author: Alexander Dworkowitz**
**Page number(s): 8**
A new Yale seminar teaches students how to rule the world.


**Title: The Last Picture Show**
**Author: Andrew Cowdery**
**Page number(s): 12**
With its survival at stake, York Square Cinema takes on Hollywood.


**Title: Carnival Knowledge**
**Author: Bidisha Banerjee**
**Page number(s): 18**
Photos and essay by Bidisha Banerjee


**Title: Poet of the Land of Promises**
**Author: Anya Kamenetz**
**Page number(s): 21**
The archives of Israel's best-known writer have traveled far to rest at Yale.


**Title: Points of Departure**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 4**



**Title: Essay: Deliverance**
**Author: Danitl Kurtz-Phtlan**
**Page number(s): 26**



**Title: The Critical Angle: A Stover for Our Time**
**Author: Alan Schomfold**
**Page number(s): 28**
rtvitwing ]ot College by Tom Ptrrotta


**Title: Endnote: Bringing up the Rear**
**Author: Matthtw Undtrwood**
**Page number(s): 30**



**Title: Renaissance Man**
**Author: Anthony Wast**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Renaissance Man
JAZz AGE liAtu.EM HOLDS A SPECIAL PLACE 
in the American popular imagination. The 
words "Harlem Renaissance" conjure up 
images of hip jazz clubs, stylish men and 
women strutting their finest on Lenox 
Avenue, and an artistic scene exploding 
with new black talent. Hot Harlem is no 
longer just a train ride away, but those who 
missed it can still catch a glimpse by head-
ing for the silent sepulchre of Beinecke 
Library. 

Beinecke may seem a bit of a let-down 
compared to the Harlem of the 1920s: A 
studious hush replaces the tunes of ragtime, 
suits are business, not zoot, and the place is 
more conducive to tedious scholarship 
than artistic inspiration. But deep within 
the vault lies the James Weldon Johnson 
Memorial Collection of American Negro 
Arts and Letters, the world's defmitive col-
lection of manuscripts, papers, and archives 
for black writers of the Harlem Renaissance 
and beyond. 

Almost as fascinating as the collection 
itself is the story of how the papers carne to 
Yale. They arrived through the efforts of a 
white man named Carl Van Vechten, a 
novelist, critic, photographer, and patron 
of the arrs. Van Vechten was a friend and 
patron of many artists of the Harlem 
Renaissance, and his own works clued a 
number of downtown whites into what was 
happening in uptown Harlem. Van 
Vechten was also friends with many white 
artists and intellectuals of the time and rec-
ognized the need to bridge the gap between 
the two groups. He envisioned having 
some of his black friends donate their 
papers and art to a predominantly white 
school, and a corresponding number of his 
white friends donate their works to a tradi-
tionally black school, in the hope that their 
gifts would encourage racial understand-
ing. 

Van Vechten decided upon Fisk 
University as the black school of choice, 
and then turned to the question of its white 
counterpart. He had become involved with 
lily-white Yale while helping Gertrude 
Stein donate her papers. 
The school 
impressed Van Vechten with its strong col-
lection, as well as its willingness to accept 
archival materials in addition to manu-
scripts. In 1941, Van Vechten and the 
widow of James Weldon Johnson, novelist, 
songwriter, and the fllst black head of the 
National Association for the Advancement 
of Colored People (NAACP), decided to 
donate Johnson's manuscripts, scrapbooks, 
correspondence, and photographs to Yale, 
forming the core of the current collection. 

Soon after, Van Vechten convinced Georgia 
O'Keeffe to donate a number of paintings 
that had belonged to her husband Alfred 
Steiglicz-including works by 
Pablo 
Picasso, Paul cezanne, and O'Keeffe her-
self-to Fisk University. 

In the following years the Yale collec-
tion expanded, as author Langston Hughes 
started to donate his papers in the 1950s 
and left the remainder upon his death in 
1967. Other major collections followed, 
including those of author Richard Wright, 
Walter White, the second black head of the 
NAACP, and Jean Toomer, of Can~ fame. 

Meanwhile, the value of Fisk's collec-
tion boomed with the rise of modern art; 
today it is worth almost twice the 
University's $xoo million endowment. Fisk 
is forbidden from selling any of the collec-
tion but has recently taken to sending it on 
tour to raise money for the school. 

Van Vecluen died in 1964. With the 
exception of the manuscripts of his novels, 
which he left to the New York Public 
Library in the 19305, he gave all of his 
papers to Yale, as well as his massive collec-
tion of original photographic prints and 
negatives, which includes many of the 
major artistic figures, black and white, of 
the 1930s and 1940s. 

The James Weldon Johnson collection 
also includes scattered gems, such as w.E.B. 
DuBois's senior thesis, with corrections by 
his advisor William James, as well as frag-
ments of]ames Baldwin's first, unpublished 
novel, written when he was 17 years old. 

The library recently acquired the Simpson 
Collection, consisting of thousands of rare 
photographs of black families from the 
nineteenth and early twentieth century. 

Admirtedly, Yale doesn't buzz like 
Harlem on Saturday night, and bands at 
Toads can hardly compare to Duke 
Ellington at the Cotton Club. But deep 
within the Beinecke reside the eloquent 
remnants of the Harlem Renaissance. For 
those intrepid enough to look. they show 
the progress of genius in scribbles and 
sketches. 


**Title: Who Wants to be a Millionaire?**
**Author: Jacob Bicher**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

Who Wants to be a Millionaire?
WHEN YALE ATHLBTIC TEAMS bring .rKruits 
to campus throughout the year, they invari-
ably end up showing them, in the words of 
one athlete, "a good time." Exactly what 
that means varies from team to team, but if 
the arrest of a crew .rKruit for alcohol pos-
session at a frat party in September is any 
indication, it generally involves some form 
of debauchery. Beyond this, the uninitiated~ 
can only guess, and so must relegate any 
further inquiry to movies like Porky's or 
PCU. The men's lacrosse team, a Yale Hx-
ture since the late nineteenth century, is no 
exception to this tradition, with one subtle 
revision. The coaches make it exceedingly 
dear to their recruits that, should they 
matriculate at Yale, they stand a pretty 
good chance of living the good life well 
beyond their college years. 

Before all men's lacrosse recruits apply 
to Yale, the coaching staff sends them a 
glossy folder packed with assorted papers. 
The bulging left pocket of the folder con-
sists solely of photocopied Blue Book 
course information, but in the right pock-
et, tucked behind boring documentS out-
lining the basics of a Yale education, lie the 
secrets to success that should send every 
lacrosse recruit on a fast-break to riches. 

Recruits Hrst see three pages listing 
nearly all of Yale's illustrious alumni-this 
could be you, recruits!--cuegorized neatly 
into "politics," "entertainers and media,~ 
and "business leaders." Among those men-
tioned are actor "Vincint" Price, former 
Secretary of Defense Dick "Chaney" (who 
apparently picked up a degree from Yale 
while no one was looking), former 
Pennsylvania Senator "Arron Spector," and 
wordsmith Noah Webster, who, in a da2-
zling and mostly unknown feat, graduated 
in 1978--cryogenically, we're to assume. 

Next, after anoth~!r lengthy list of fac-
ulty and alumni Nobel Prize winners (a 
lucrative honor-prize winners receive 
around $1,ooo,ooo), recruitS Hnd a page 
entitled 
"Ivy 
League 
Millionaires." 
Compiled by the Taft Group, a self-pro-
claimed "publisher of reference works on 
the philanthropic activities of wealthy indi-
viduals," this list ranks each Ivy League 
school according to irs success in churning 
out millionaires. Yale, not surprisingly, 
ranks number one, having produced 3,249 
millionaire graduates, with rivals Harvard 
(2,789), Brown (869), and an especially sus-
pect Princeton (a paltry 190) trailing 
behind. 

And if recruitS haven't yet begun to 
salivate at their assured ascent to the ranks 
of aristocracy, there's more. The next sheet 
carries the title, "Where the CEo's Went to 
College," subtitled, "A Fortune survey of 
the nation's top bosses shows that Ivies and 
Big Ten schools rank high." According to a 
"recent study" (1990) by Fortune maga2ine, 
not only do 156 of Fortune 500 company 
CEOs come from the Ivy League, but a 
whopping 43 hail from Yale-that's nearly 
ten percent! "If you want to become the 
chief executive officer of a Fortune 500 
company," Fortune asks, "where should you 
go to school?" The answer is Yale, of 
course, whose domination of the Fortune 
500 putS it atop yet another list, leaving 
Princeton (32), Harvard (25), and a dozen 
other universities dawdling miserably 

For any lacrosse recruit still uncon-
vinced that Yale is a one-way ticket to the 
top, the coaches furnish one Hnal ranking 
that outdoes them all-the "Power Factor." 
As part of itS cro survey, Fortune took the 
average graduating class from Yale in the 
1950s, did some fuzzy math, and came up 
with a number meant to "gauge which col-
leges have been most successful on a per 
capita basis at schooling future chiefs." In 
other words, 
Forttm~ reduced potential 
power to a single number. Yale, with a pow-
erfully staggering Power Factor of 4.87, 
once again takes the top spot, followed by 
familiar runners-up Princeton (4.66), 
Harvard (2.26), and Dartmouth (1.98) . 

But do men's lacrosse recruits really 
buy any of this? Do they studiously com-
pare Power Factors and millionaire rank-
ings in deciding which college to attend? 
And did Dick "Chaney" ever pick up a 
lacrosse stick in his life? With an impressive 
record of8-5lasr year and dismal results for 
most of the decade, it looks like most 
lacrosse stars would rather seek their for-
tunes elsewhsre. 


**Title: Calhoun College Master's Tea**
**Author: Tom Perotta**
**Page number(s): 5**

Calhoun College Master's Tea 
TOM PEROTTA 
1983 Yale Graduate and Author of The · 
Wishbones, Election and his latest novel, 
joe College 
Calhoun College Master's House 
434 College Street 
Tuesday, November 14, 4:30 


~AL 
~ 
.$itut~ntic lniilln Cui.5iM 
Open 7 Days a Week 
Catering, Take-Out and Free Delivery Available 
Fri., Sat., & Sun. 20-Course All-you-can-eat Buffet 
12-3 PM only $6.95 
I 0% discount for Yale students on dinner M-Th 
Free Parking 
140 Howe Street · Phone (203) 787-9493 
www.yawanna.com/Restaurants/royaJ.shtml 

THE 
WASH lUI 
"The BEST laundry center In town." 
• SELF .. ERVICE .... 7 dap 
7 AM· 9 PM, FRI. 'TIL 10 PM 
• bpert DROP.OJ'F SEIWICE 
Mon.-Fri. 8 AM- 6 PM, 
SAT8AM-2PM 

CrO&lR!AJ& 
Japanese Restaurant 
* BEST JAPANESE - State Runner-Up 
CT Magaztn~ Ruu:ur's Choic~ PoLL I998-:zoou 
* BEST JAPANESE - NC"W" Haven County 
CT Magaztn~ R~a.:krs ' Chotct' Poll I998-:zoou • 
Besc Japa.ne.se 
Din nee... Sunday- T h ursday s:oo pnl - 9:30 pm 
Friday - S:uurday 4:45 pm - to:oo pm 
SllsllJ· 
Lunch... 
Monday - rriuay 11:)0 am . 2. :JO pm 
Cate . 
1 206 Dixwell Avenue. Hamden 
'rll]g 
203-28 .. -4542 
FAX 203-407-1 651 
www.hamacLcom 

**Title: Sanctuary**
**Author:  (Not specified)**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

Sanctuary
WALKING IN 1HROUGH the side entrance, I sit 
down in darkness, a hushed shuffling of 
feet around me the only sound. Douns of 
candles and the heavy smell of incense 
bring my mind to a strange calm. Then the 
singing: One male voice takes up a half-
song, half-chant; a chorus soon joins in. 
The voices are strong, the notes clear and 
unwavering. The songs are prayers, pleas 
for mercy, and hymns of praise. Berween 
each song, all is silent; only candles and 
bent heads are visible. 

This is Compline, a service held at 
Christ Church on Broadway every Sunday 
night. Compline is the name for both this 
Episcopal public prayer service and the 
hour at which the service is held. It is the 
last of the Liturgical Hours, when a small 
choir sings scriptural hymns based on Old 
Testament psalms. This service is held at 
ten PM; other services--Matins, Lauds, 
Prime, Terce, Sext, None, and Vespers-are 
held throughout the day. 

The idea that half an hour of hymns 
could aetract a large follwing of Yale 
students is not necessarily intuitive, bur 
Compline 
attracts 
more 
than 
just 
Episcopalians: Many Compline regulars 
practice other religions or are atheists. Bur 
Christ Church does not seek to convert. 
"We're deliberately non-pressure, non-



**Title: Compline**
**Author: Rebecca Givens**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
proselytizing," says Rob Lehman, choir-
master of the Church. "We're not trying to 
sell anyone anything." That the Church 
welcomes people of all denominations and 
does not demand religious worship may 
explain why attendance at Compline, but 
not Church membership, has swelled since 
the service was opened to the public at the 
beginning of September. As news of~ 
Compline services has spread through 
word of mouth and public announce-
ments, the usual attendance has grown 
from about 40 to over 160 people. 

Having been a Compline regular for 
the last month and a half, I'm beginning to 
understand the broad appeal. Since high 
school, I have passed through the gates of 
more religions than I can name. I've 
attempted to "become a flower" under the 
low-voiced exhortation of a Buddhist 
monk, fed the cows outside a Hare Krishna 
geodesic dome, and joined a group of 
whirling dervishes at a mystical gathering 
of Sufis, spinning and chanting the names 
of God. I've even spent a week at a 
monastery in Conyers, Georgia, waking 
before four in the morning to make it to 
the first service of the day. Compline is 
another way of satisfying my curiosity 
about other religious cultures. 

For 30 minutes, the service continues; 
then, with no fanfare, it ends. People get up 
slowly and seem unwilling to leave. Some 
genuflect and cross themselves; others walk 
straight out. 

Compline is moving, but it's hard to 
say exactly why. People leaving the Church 
don't provide answers in their parting con-
versations; walking down the Church steps, 
I hear mostly small talk: "I'm cold" or "I 
like the music here." But it seems that 
something deeper is happening that no one 
is expressing. Perhaps this traditional 
prayer service provides a needed spiritual 
ritual for students immersed in a secular 
World; perhaps Compline is a way to clear 
the mind before reentering Yale; or perhaps 
it is simply a quest for relief, a quiet haven 
within New Haven's much louder space. 

And so each Sunday we take half an hour in 
Christ Church before spilling out onto 
Broadway, where we are greeted by the 
SOunds of screeching brakes and car horns. 
It's the last night before the workweek 
starts up again, one among many brief 
¥acations, hundreds of urban nights. 
-&b~cca Givens 
NOVEMBER 10, 2000


**Title: students how to rule the world**
**Author: Alexander Dworkowitz**
**Page number(s): 9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
n1ve.rse 
and speaks plainly about the success of ISS, which has an annual 
budget of over $8oo,ooo. "When I talk to my buddies in the med 
school, going biking or running, they talk about grants of millions. 
We look like small beans compared to them. But for somebody in 
the humanities, like Mideast studies, ISS looks like a 
150-pound gorilla." Kennedy speaks enthusiastical-
ly and openly, and it is not hard to see why so many 
want him to stay in charge. 

Kennedy is well aware of the academic trends 
that lie behind the rapid growth of ISS. "It means 
that when people worried that everyone was switch-
ing to gender studies or black studies, we can say 
that there are exceptions. We are one of the only 
places in the country that does this, and I think the 
foundations [that fund research] know this." It was 
this frustration with the current state of academics 
that led to the idea for the Grand Strategy Project. 

About three years ago, Kennedy began speaking 
with his neighbor and friend John Gad<f!s who was 
giving a series of talks about globalization at the 
time. "We were both thinking that specialization in 
the academy had become horribly entrenched," 
explains Kennedy. "There were very few attempts to 
look at the thing as a whole." At an ISS sponsored 
weekend retreat attended by Kennedy, Hill, 
Bracken, Donald Kagan, and Nno York Times columnist Thomas 
Friedman, the idea for a diplomatic and military history seminar 
emerged. The class would differ from the standard seminar in one 
key aspect: Its goal was not simply to teach what had happened, but 
to train students for what could happen. More than a class about 
ideas on international security, ISS became a class on leadership, and 
its instructors, who ask for a resume along with applications, 
acknowledge that they look to accept potential leaders into it. 

Leadership is both stressed by and embodied in Charles Hill, 
one of the instructors of "Studies in Grand Strategy." 
A 
Distinguished Fellow at ISS, Hill has served as Chief of Staff of the 
Department of State and worked as Assistant Secretary General and 
By Alexander Dworkowitz 
Special Policy Advisor to the United Nations. While Kennedy 
speaks of grand strategy as one of many aspects of the study of his-
tory, Hill suggests that it is the most important because it is the one 
that defines leadership. "This [has long been] part of the education 
of those who were expected to become leaders. If 
you're going to be in a position of leadership, you 
need to attend to every aspect from the budget to 
personalities to power to external limitations; you're 
going to need a comprehensive view of all aspects if 
you're going to make the institution work effective-
ly." 

Hill envisions the grand strategy course teach-
ing its students a certain way to think. "In general, 
the understanding of how you approach things in a 
grand strategic way has eroded," he says. "Life has 
been more fragmented." Hill argues that there has 
been a decline in the use of grand strategy in diplo-
macy and business, and that this endangers world 
stability. Hill sees a direct connection between the 
changes in academia in the 196os--deparrments and 
specialization becoming standard features of the 
university and its faculty-and the lack of vision of 
many of today's leaders, especially in terms of for-
eign policy. In order to improve the world of tomor-
row, one must improve the world's leaders, and in 
order to improve the world's leaders, one must change the way they 
are trained. 

It is the idea that an institution like Yale exists to train leaders 
that attracts so much attention to ISS and the Grand Strategy 
Project. In his recent book, The Lexus and the Olive T"e, a "guide-
book on how to follow the drama [of globalization)," Thomas 
Friedman writes, "The Yale International Relations historians Paul 
Kennedy and John Lewis Gaddis see,one of their jobs as training the 
next generation of American strategists. To their great credit, they 
have been exploring how to broaden the curriculum in order to pro-
duce a new generation of strategists who can think as globalists and 
not just particularists." 

NOVEMBER 10, 2000 



**The Grand Strategy Project: Training the Next Generation of Leaders?**
**Author: Alexander Dworkowitz**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
But more importantly, ISS takes active 
steps to help its students reach positions of 
leadership. The Grand Strategy Network, 
as the ISS Annual Report explains, "has 
begun to build a network of individuals 
and institutions trained to think about and 
implement grand strategies in imaginative 
and effective ways." 

This networking 
often takes the form of dinner conversa-
tions, sometimes held at Mory's, between 
guest lecturers and the students of the 
class. While acknowledging the possibility 
that a student may get a job offer from the 
people he or she meets at such social func-
tions, Kennedy states that, "It's much less 
profossionai networking than intelkctuai 
networking." 

People for the American Way organization, 
James Piereson, Executive Direcror of the 
Olin Foundation, is quoted as saying, "We 
invested at the top of society, in 
Washington think tanks and the best uni-
versities, and the idea is [that} this would 
have a much larger impact because they 
were influential places." 

The report suggests that this 
impact reflects the bias of the donors: 
"One Chronicle of High" Education writer 
notes that critics charge Olin with spend-
ing 'millions of dollars to support activities 
that direct!,. challenge the spread of diver-
sity and multiculturalism on campus. Far 
from promoting objective, dispassionate 
scholarship, 
as it claims, the Olin 
Foundation has an explicit political agen-
da, with ties to officials in the Republican 
party.'" The report suggests that the Olin 
Foundation is interested not merely in 
To an observer of the seminar, it 
becomes immediately clear that such a net-
work has already formed. The class is 
much livelier than the typical Yale seminar, 
and the students know 
Strategy 
students are not 
only supposed to 
learn about the 
world's leaders but 
to become them. 
each other: well. "We've 
become more of a 
group than a class," 
says 
senior 
llneta 
Binienda. But all the 
undergraduates with 
whom I spoke shy 
away from the ideas of 
networks and leader-
ship. Binienda does 
not consider herself "a 
Grand 
training leaders, but in 
training ·leaders to act 
according to Olin's 
conservative philoso-
phy. 

To 
a 
casual 
observer of ISS, the 
link to the broader 
conservative 
move-
ment, while well docu-
mented 
financially, 
future world leader," although she does 
want to be in "some sort of position of 
leadership eventually." 

Senior David 
Slifka says, ''I've never been a very good 
networker." He adds, "I'm sure the pro-
fessors would like to see us become world 
leaders, but I think you need more than 
taking 'Grand Strategy' to become one." 

ALTHOUGH THEY HAVE NO INFLUENCE over 
what is taught in the class, the foundations 
supporting ISS strongly approve of the 
Grand Strategy Project. The two largest 
donors are the John M. Olin and Smith 
Richardson Foundations, and even though 
most of the funds for the Grand Strategy 
Project come from Smith Richardson, 
both foundations' philosophies of leader-
ship echo that of the Project. In "Buying A 
Movement: Right-Wmg Foundations in 
American Politics," a report by the liberal 
seems tenuous ideo-
logically. Afrer all, international security is 
an i~ue that transcends political distinc-
tions. Even though the instructors of 
"Studies in Grand Strategy" are relatively 
conservative, none of the students with 
whom I spoke thought that a particular 
ideology drove the class. 

So why then have rwo conservative 
foundations taken up ISS as their cause? 
One answer lies in the nature of the study of 
history. "Every generation redefines what 
sort of history it is in," explains Kennedy. 
"It's not surprising that the generation that 
was born between the wars wanted to 
understand war, because they just went 
through two of the biggest wars in history. 
[Today], some people think diplomatic his-
tory is the study of power, and since power 
is bad and made of old white males, they 
replace military history with something like 
environmental history." 

THE NEW JouRNAL 


But does the study of power in the 
form of grand strategy necessarily lead to 
conservative conclusions? The answer may 
lie in how one defines grand strategy. 

Some studenrs in the class, such as Ranjarl::' 
Goswani, doubt if grand strategy even 
exists. Hill is contented with a means-to-
an-end 
definition. 
But 
Theodore 
Bromund, Associate Director of ISS, has a 
more specific concept of grand strategy. 
"In the business context," he says, "grand 
strategy is profit maximization by obeying 
legal and ethical norms. In the government 
context, it is wealth distributed in a certain 
way." While he doesn't define these ethical 
norms, Bromund suggests that ethics are a 
necessary element of grand strategy. A 
poster of Winston Churchill behind his 
desk reflects this ideal: Churchill is drawn 
with his finger raised, saying "Deserve 
Victory." Bromund says that he likes the 
morality implied. One student in the class, 
Ram Fish of the School of Management, 
says, "Tactics is about how to win battles. 
Strategy is about how to win the war. And 
grand strategy is about what wars to fight." 

BUT GRANO STRATEGY, in its essence, is not 
about ends. Grand strategy is the study of 
means, a strategy of how to achieve one's 
desired ends. Grand strategy seeks to teach 
the powerful how to get what they want, 
whatever that may be. 

Many of the studentS in the grand 
strategy seminar simply hope to learn from 
an interesting class, and are humble about 
the idea of leadership. But despite their 
feelings, one thing is clear: Taught by some 
of the world's most influential professors, 
treated to dinners with corporate CEOs, 
observed by the CIA, and networked with 
one another, the handpicked studentS of 
the Grand Strategy Project are not only 
supposed to learn about the world's lead-
ers, but to become them. 

Alexander Dworkowitz, a smiorin 
Branford, is on the staff o[TNJ . 
NoVEMBER 10, 2000


**York Square Cinema: A David and Goliath Story**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 12**

H
·alfway up Broadway, near the center ofNew Haven, the 
York Square Cinema readies for combat. Strategy 
requires a business-as--usual approach, which means that the 
promotional posters stay on the front windows and the poster-
size movie reviews remain in display cases by the doors, all 
below the giant marquee where mismatched letters announce 
the week's features. The reviews and posters were almost cer-
tainly put up by Peter Spodick, who manages the York Square 
and who also filed suit this past spring against the twelve largest 
movie studios in the country. 

Spodick is a busy man. The lawsuit brings more work to a 
job that already provided plenty. It has brought a doz.en ene-
mies who more or less comprise the American motion picture 
industry: Buena Vista (which includes Disney), Columbia, 
Dream Works, MGM, Lion's Gate, Miramax, New Line Cinema, 
Paramount, USA Films, Sony, Universal Studios, and Warner 
Bros. Spodick claims the studios have systematically avoided 
Licensing first-run films in the city of New Haven, forcing resi-
dents to travel to neighboring towns to see new movies. The 
trial is tentatively set to begin December 31, 2001, creating a 
frantic year of preparation in the meantime. 

As he dashes between legal and managerial chores, Spodick 
is hard to find. In fact, 15 minutes before theater doors open on 
a Thursday night, the only place to catch him is the men's 
restroom, where he is whisking across the tiles, paper towels 
bunched under his shoes. "Cleaning guy put too much soap on 
the floor," he says. He circles from stall co door co sink, where 
he stops to splash more water on the floor: "Nature's solvent." 
"Don't be shy," he says, and tosses a mess of towels my way. 
A young employee zips out of a stall and smiles as she grabs 
more rowels. She turns so that now she and Spodick are circling 
each other in the middle of the floor, like dance partners. If 
anyone brings this up later he'll just grin and say, "When scuff 
needs to get done, you shut the fuck up and you do it." 

PETER SPODicK's FATHER, Robert Spodick, opened the Lincoln 
Theatre in New Haven with his cousin Lenny Sampson in 1945· 
Lenny was fresh back from fighting in Japan and Robert, 26, 
had just moved up from New York, where he went to school 
and managed the Little Carnegie, a popular foreign film theater 
next co Carnegie Hall. Neither man bad much money. How 
were they able to start their own theater? Peter laughs. He likes 
this part of the story. 

During World War u, croops en route co Japan stayed in 
Honolulu before shipping out. The island was flooded with 
thousands of bored soldiers, one of whom was Lenny Sampson. 
One day he approached the owner of the on-base movie house. 
which was doing poorly. Lenny said be could double the 
owner's business in exchange for a piece of the profits. Deal. 
Lenny telegrammed Robert to send a reel of Ecstasy, the new 
Hedy Lamarr movie. "She was a great big star," Peter says. 
"Very beautiful." The movie was indeed a business-doubler 
because, as every soldier-age male knew in 1945, .Eatasy has a 



**Title: The Big Squeeze**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
nude swim scene. Jackpot. Robert, scill in New York, tracked down 
a reel of the movie and shipped it to Honolulu, and ... what? Peter 
has quit mid-sentence, wallcing upstairs to his office in silence. 
Afraid he has forgotten to finish the ~ory, I ask, "How did it 
do?" 


Peter opens his office door co reveal the original promotional 
poster for Ecstmy. There are some words along the edges, but the 
poster is dominated by a large, simple sketch of a woman leaning 
back against a rock. She is beautiful, smiling, and naked. 
"They broke the theater doors down," he says. Lenny's cut 
from the theater owner would be the seed money for the Lincoln 
Theatre in New Haven. 


Lenny and Robert ran the Lincoln successfully until 1966, 
when the city informed them that their theater was in the way of an 
exit ramp-to-be off Interstate 91, and put the Theatre on 30-day 
theater in "New Haven" can play a film while it is playing at the 
Showcase. These exclusive runs draw moviegoers from New Haven 
co "New Haven," and can extend for several months or longer. 
Ammcan B~auty. for example, never came to our New Haven. 


"Before the movie opened, we knew this would be a big one, 
maybe the big one," Spodick says of Ammcan &auty, the 1999 
Dream Works blockbuster that grossed over $130 million nation-
wide. "It was one of those crossover picrures that was artistically sig-
nificant and did tremendous business." The film opened at one of 
the "New Haven" Showcase locations in the suburbs, Spodick says, 
and played £here for nine months, switching between locations and 
even leaving the Showcase altogether for a while, during which 
Spodick still was not allowed to play the film. Spodick repeatedly 
requested the film from Dream Works but was refused on the 
grounds of the exclusive-run contract. Spodick believed so strongly 
destruction notice. Building maintenance was 
tough to justify when the only certainty in the 
building's future was destruction. The Lincoln 
spent the next 16 years a month's notice from 
death, finally closing in 1982. But Lenny and 
Robert still had the York Square Cinema, 
opened in 1970 at 6 1 Broadway. 


Unless its owners 
work a miracle, 
the York Square 
in Ammcan B~auty's potencial that he even 
contacted Dream Works with an offer afrer the 
film had come out on video, nearly a year afrer 
the national release. Again the studio refused. 


This is not the only movie the York Square has 
missed, and Dream Works is not the only stu-
dio that has seemingly blacklisted the city of 
New Haven. Eleven others have all decided to 
play only in the suburbs despite evidence that 
the York Square can be very profitable wben 
allowed to play mainstream films, raising the 
question that tortures Spodick: Why? 


Cinema could be 
Thirty years later, the York Square--all 
ducc screens and 687 seatS of it-is the only 
remaining theater within walking distance of 
Yale. where 10,000 studentS are packed inro a 
kw square miles, and within the city of New 
out of business 
by Christmas. 
Haven, population 130,000. Jackpot. Or so it would seem. Unless 
Peter Spodick works a miracle, the York Square could be out of 
bwiness by Christmas. 


BusiNESS HAS BUN BAD in recent years because major studios have 
been increasingly unwilling to allow their films to play at the only 
theater in New Haven. It's hard to say what's more absurd: that stu-
dios collectively boycott medium-sized cities with large captive 
audiences, or that Peter Spodick has decided to sue them all for it. 


Spodick filed Broadway Theatre Corporation v. Buma Vista 
Piaures, a al on April 19, 2000, citing the studios' refusal to license 
films in New Haven as a violation of the Connecticut Unfair Trade 
Pncrices Act (CUTPA). "[CUTPA] is a consumer protection act," 
Spodick says. "The defmition in the law is unfairness to consumers. 
How is it that some people get a little more f.Urness than others?" 


He wants a court order to prevent the studios from denying movies 
to New Haven. Spodick's claim hinges on geography: The accused 
distributors all agree on the boundaries of a territory they call "New 
Haven" that is considerably larger than the real New Haven. 


Sa.d.ios have divided the nation into thousands of territories, and 
their "New Haven" combines the city of New Haven with more 
chan a dozen surrounding towns. In addition to the York Square, 
lbc studios' "New Haven" is home to four multiplexes, all owned by 
Sbowase Cinemas, a national chain. Since its first "New Haven" 
location opened in 1967, Showcase has licensed films from distrib-
ucon under an •exclusive run" agreement, meaning that no other 
NOVEMBER 10, 200 


At the trial next year, the studios' response will probably 
amount co "Why what?" Studios profit directly from the success of 
their films, as theater owners must pay a fraction of each movie's 
ticket sales back co the studio. This fraction varies--studios tend to 
demand more return for films they expect to succeed, and especial-
ly in the film's opening weeks, when attendance is likely to be high-
esc. The fraction shrinks as the film's run continues, but can begin 
quite large, sometimes as high as 70 percent. Because the studios' 
income is so dependent on ticket sales, they are generally free to 
license films co whomever they choose. 


UNTIL R£CENTLY, AMERICA'S LARGEST FILM EXHIBITORS have been 
engaged in a furious building war. The result is 33 percent more 
screens than five years ago, and, for six major exhibitors, bankrupt-
cy. Industry analyses say that the nation's 39,000 screens are about 
12,000 too many. "Overscreening" has complicated the movie exhi-
bition business, especially the relationship between national chains 
like Carmike Cinemas (the country's third largest exhibitor) and 
small movie houses like the York Square. The building spree con-
tributed most to overscreening, but smaller, older theaters will most 
likely bear the cost of their competitors' mistake. Multiplexes, after 
all, have a lot to offer: digital sound, stadium searing, and conces--
sion stands of occasionally intimidating selection (go ro the 
Manhattan AMC 25 for chicken quesadillas, the Plainville, cr, 2o-
plex for popcorn shrimp). O lder theaters' worn-out chairs and gar-
bled sound may appeal to nostalgia, but not ro Hollywood. When 
13 


a new multiplex springs up near a mall and 
demands exclusive runs, what are the stu-
dios to do? Every town, it seems, now has 
an abandoned theater on Main Street and a 
multiplex ten miles away. The villain, 
Spodick explains, is not just one theater 
chain, 
but 
a 
juggernaut: 
National 
Amusements, a sprawling 
entity 
that 
contains 
Viacom, cas, Paramount, 
United International, and 
Showcase 
Cinemas. 


National Amusements has 
been captained almost sin-
glehandedly in the last 
dozen years by a man 
named Sumner Redstone. 


Redstone's 
Cinemas 
controls 
more 
than 1350 screens across the 
eastern half of the country, 
with high concentrations in 
Massachusetts and southern 
Connecticut. He has New 
Haven surrounded: to the southeast, eight 
screens in Orange; to the southwest, nine 
in Milford; to the north, twelve in North 
Haven. Redstone has constructed a ring 
approximately eight miles in radius around 
New Haven, drawing to the perimeter cus-
tomers with personal transportation but 
neglecting everyone else; as Spodick often 
points out, "There is no bus." 


And if this ring continues its "squeeze" 
on New Haven, Spodick says, there will be 
no movie theater here either. Spodick 
knows Redstone and his strategies, and 
fears they wiU work as well in New Haven 
as they did in Hamden, whose local theater 
found itself unable to get first-run films. 
Showcase had screens in North Haven, and 
was not interested in neighbors. Showcase 
applied the "squeeze," and when the 
Hamden theater folded, Showcase bought 
their lease. T he theater later reopened 
under Showcase management. Then, "a 
few years later Schowcase opens an eight-
screener in North Haven, and they close 
the theater in Hamden. It gets convened 
into a giant Blockbuster Video. The city of 
Hamden, population 50,000 is officially 
shit out of luck. There will never be the-
aters there. That's how it works," Spodick 
says. "Fold 'em, take 'em over. Fold 'em, 
take 'em over. If Showcase doesn't do it, 
some competitor may go in there and make 
trouble for them, so they take it over." 


Showcase does not build in the sub-
urbs by accident, Spodick says. "They 
know when 
build these multimillion 
doUar complexes who's going to come to 
the movies. New Haven has 20,000 people 
living on welf.ue. Showcase doesn't want 
these people." Spodick cites overscreening 
as one reason why Showcase "cannot allow 
downtown theaters access to first-run 
films," lest the York Square's central loca-
tion begin drawing New Haven residents 
who usually venture to the suburbs for new 
movies. The suburbs are out of reach, how-
ever, for the poor and those without cars, 
most of whom will not pay a $25 cab fare 
on top of an $8.25 ticket for a first-run 
movie in North Haven, the nearest 
Showcase location. 


"People who live in New Haven have 
been disenfranchised," Spodick says--to 
him movies are an urban dweller's basic 
right. "It's not a matter of money; it's about 
the quality of our shared urban lives. There 
is no successful downtown anywhere that 
does not have first-run movies. We have 
everything else. This is an industry that 
brings people out at night on a mass basis. 
Movies are an urgent catalyst for restau-
rants, downtown shopping. bookstores that 
stay open late, coffee shops that are open all 
night to accommodate people on the 
town." 


As proof that crowds would foUow if 
first-run movies were to come, Spodick 
offers the example of Th~ Blair Wit'h 
Project, a horror film that cost $30,000 to 
make and grossed $140 million. Its success 
surprised just about everyone, including 
Redstone, who did not demand an exclu-
sive run and let the York Square 
have it. With Yale empty for 
the summer, Blair Witch still 
grossed $6,000 on opening day 
and $27,000 for the week, and, 
according to Spodick, out-
grossed most area theaters. 


Nevertheless, when a sequel 
was announced, the studio told 
Spodick it would never play in 
New Haven. "New Haveners 
responded to Blair Witch, 
proved it could make a fortune 
downtown. 
That's 
why 
[Redstone] will not allow us to 
play it anymore." 


Since the York Square 
opened, perhaps no movie has belonged 
there as much as last year's The Situ/is, set at 
Yale. The Hartford Courant advised resi-
dents to come here just to watch it: "Those 
wanting to enjoy Th~ Situ/is to the fullest 
should journey ... to the theater closest to 
the campus of Yale University in order to 
rune in to the chorus of jeers and cheers 
from the sons of Eli." Redstone let the York 
Square have Th~ Skulls, but only because 
good business sense told him he had to. 
What better way to pique national atten-
tion than to prevent a movie about Yale 
&om playing at the only theater on cam-
pus? 


Redstone 
convinced 
Universal 
Pictures to play it in the suburbs first for a 
few weeks anyway, then tossed it to the 
York Square just as school was ending. "We 
would have turned out the biggest gross in 
the United States for that movie," Spodick 
says wistfully. 


THE TWELVE HOLLYWOOD STUDIOS named 
in the suit all have the same lawyer. His 
office, it turns out, is a half mile from the 
York Square on the New Haven Green. He 
and Spodick have known each other since 
they were kids: They went to Amity Junior 
High School together. 


THE NEw JouRNAL 


Richard Bowerman works for Tyler 
Cooper & Alcorn, one of the city's top law 
firms. He represents--the studios, the out-
of-towners who in this fiercely local fight 
are perhaps too easily condemned simpTy 
because they are so big. They may even be 
ruthless and greedy, but does this distin-
guish them from other large corporations, 
much less make their actions illegal? 


Bowerman is resolute: It is not unlawful for 
the studios to license their films, which are 
copyrighted products, as they wish. The 
studios "have a right to license them in any 
w.&y they deem proper, same as you would 
if you made a motion picture or wrote a 
book." 


This challenge to the uniqueness of 
Spodick's claim can be expanded. The York 
Square's predicament reflects the wide-
spread phenomenon of businesses' flight to 
the suburbs. Is it so awful that they might 
now see their movies there as well? 


Yes, Spodick argues, because not 
everyone can get to the suburbs. There is 
bus service to the Showcase-managed 
Fourplex in Milford, but the round trip 
totals 21 miles, a distance described by 
Spodick in his legal complaint as "prohibi-
tive." Nobody wants to ride on the bus for 
an hour to see a movie, but first-run movies 
being available by public transportation 
further blurs a complaint that already 
hinges on a jury's interpretation of what 
·wr" is. 


"The York Square does not have the 
grossing potential of other houses in the 
area," Bowerman says. When, at his father's 
request, Peter Spodick became manager of 
the theater, he replaced Arnold Gorlick, 
who had managed the theater for 2.4 years 
and moved to the new Madison Art 
Cinemas in Madison, cr, 20 minutes from 
New Haven. Interestingly, Gorlick's new 
theater does better than the York Square. 
The Madison quickly became one of the 
Rate's leading art theaters, playing a variety 
of films and, according to Gorlick, existing 
in harmony-even cooperation-with 
Showcase. Spodick brisdes at the notion 
that the Madison could even be called an 
an theater, and he has a point: Most art 
houses don't have eight channels of Dolby 
Ia surround sound :md sufficiendy elegant 
NOVEMBER 10, 2000 

**Title: SHOTS IN THE DARK**
**Author: Bidisha Banerjee**
**Page number(s): 17-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
carnival knowledge


**Title: The York Square's Last Stand**
**Author:  Andrew Cowdny**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

architecture to be photographed for the 
N~ York Times, like the Madison. Perhaps 
Spodick is bitter that the Madison occupies 
the niche he seeks, balancing art ftlms with 
mainstream movies, or worried because the 
Madison m:ty be claiming some of his 
already paltry business. 

Spodick's old friends have now come 
forward as his adversaries, representing 
forces that could crush him before long. 
Provided the York Square survives until the 
trial, life will become a lot harder, Spodick 
admits. "They want to go to trial," he says 
of the studios. "I believe they've already 
committed half a million dollars to keep 
movies out of New Haven. If we go to trial, 
it'll become millions." And who will com-
bat greater Hollywood in the courts? 
Peter Spodick, of course. He is also a 
lawyer-Cleveland State Law School, class 
of '78. He will represent himself against 
Hollywood and his junior high classmate, 
and he will do it while running the theater 
almost by himself. He will also have to sur-
mount considerable obstacles just to reach 
the trial, as the next 13 months will be filled 
with battles and surprises, like the court-
supported request Spodick received several 
days ago from Richard Bowerman. 

"He wants everything," Spodick says. 
"All the details, statements, play dates, 
grosses, everything from the last 1,300 
screen weeks." A screen week is the cine-
marie equivalent of a kilowatt hour; the 
York Square, with three screens, goes 
through three screen weeks every calendar 
week. "That means everything we've· done 
in the last seven years," Spodick says. "Our 
bookkeeper is going crazy." 

There is only one bookkeeper, just as 
there is only one lawyer, who is also the 
manager, just as there is one 81-year-old 
promoter, who is also the owner and 
founder. Robert Spodick still works a full 
week. Although he was diagn~sed with 
throat cancer two years ago-"Too many 
cigarettes," his son explains-Robert does 
most of the advertising. booking. and buy-
ing. Peter does everything else, often work-
ing 70-hour weeks during which he is man-
ager, projectionist, publicist, janitor, and, 
now, lawyer. "If I don't do it, it won't get 
done," he says. "If it rains tonight, I'll be 
on the roof clearing leaves out of the gutter 
so we don't have a flood. If I were to get 
sick for awhile, forget it. The York Square 
closes." 

When asked if his current situation 
reminds him of anything he's seen in the 
movies, Spodick answers quickly enough: 
"James Stewart ... It's A Wontkrfol Lifo." In 
the movie, George Bailey wants co leave 
town and live on his own, but his father 
dies and George has to take over the strug-
gling fumily business. Bailey fights to keep 
the business alive and resist the evil Mr. 
Potter, a rival banker. 

Spodick loves the movie, but doesn't 
take the parallel roo far. Mr. Potter may 
have been treacherous and powerful, but as 
an enemy, he's no march for Redstone, who 
is too large to attack directly. Instead, 
Spodick has had to fight him through the 
studios, which are smaller and more legally 
vulnerable. New Haven's townspeople 
appear less than ready co band together and 
save the theater, as many of them seem to 
harbor a belief that the York Square will 
never actually dose. They don't understand 
the many factors that contribute co a crisis 
of "imminent failure" for the only movie 
theater in a college town. They don't know 
Sumner Redstone. Spodick does, and 
wanes nothing more than to defeat him for 
the York Square and the countless small 
theaters that did nor survive the "squeez.e." 

Spodick will never give up, but victory 
is distant at best, and he is exhausted. 
"'There is a point where you get so tired you 
lose track," he says. Money is also an issue. 
NOVEMBER 10,2000 
Peter isn't paid much, and Robert hasn't 
taken a check in years. He works all week, 
and does it for free. "And y'know what?" 
Peter says, "He's tired too." But while the 
real world generally supplies fewer happy 
endings than do the movies, there are hints 
lately that the city is awakening to the York 
Square. 

KEviN McCLOuD HAD NOT MET Peter 
Spodick when he wrote a series of letters 
trying to save the York Square. McCloud, 
who moved to New Haven earlier this year, 
was a frequent theater-goer and had seen 
enough to know he wanted it to stick 
around . So he wrote three letters to 
Connecticut Attorney General Richard 
Blumenthal and New Haven Mayor John 
DeStefano. He used strong words and 
underlines, urging the Mayor to "~ 
~ 
work with the state attorney 
general" to save the theater. 

"For many years, the practice of first 
distributing movies through such multi-
plexes has sapped the life from the cinema 
industry downtown," DeStefano wrote in 
response. "The Attorney General is consid-
ering active participation in securing the 
right of the York Square Cinemas' efforts to 
receive first-run movies." 

"When I see that letter from the 
mayor," Spodick says, "I am a happy boy. 
The Attorney General cannot take every 
case that comes along. bur he has the right 
to enter on an amicus basis, for harm to 
consumers, and take the case away [for a 
state investigation]." This would bring the 
prosecutorial power of the state to 
Spodick's case, which could convince the 
studios to settle out of court. "That would 
be a dream come true," Spodick says. 

Whether the Attorney General takes 
the case or not, Spodick's mission is the 
same. Under 
CUTPA, plaintiffs must 
demonstrate immediate threat of irrepara-
ble harm if the defendant were not 
restrained. In this case, Spodick is attempt-
ing to restrain the studios' ability to keep 
movies out of downtown New Haven. If 
the York Square does not get fiCst-run 
movies immediately, Spodick says, New 
Haven will never get them again. T he York 
will go out of business and no replacement 
theater would spring up in its place. 

Spodick is equally sure that Showcase 
would never open a theater in New Haven, 
as they have already overbuilt in the sub-
urbs. "They're terrified of who else might 
poach on their rue£ So they build to keep 
competitors out." 

AN AR:riCLE IN THE Tccas Monthly lists 
a dozen stately, beautiful movie houses that 
have been, for various lengths of time, 
dead. They stand unpurchased and unde-
molished for two reasons: No unrelated 
business would fit snugly into the buildings 
as they are, and no one wants to knock 
them down. When two reporters opened 
up the Aztec Theatre in Eagle Pass, TX "a 
score of residentS crowded around to beg a 
quick peek inside or to relate anecdotes 
about the Aztec, and several-including a 
police detective and the city manager-
revealed that they had mer their spouses 
there." The York Square and the Aztec 
share an idealistic belief that people do not 
want a movie theater that it sized for max-
imum efficiency, bur one that is beautiful 
in an intimate and utterly obsolete sort of 
way. 

"The ghosts are gone," Spodick says. 
"There is only one fighter, and it is us." ... 
And~ Cowdny is a sopho1TUJ" in 
Ezra Stiks Co/kg~. 



**Title: Cheshire County Fair**
**Author: Unlisted**
**Page number(s): 19-20**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
When evening hit the Cheshire County fair, the cotton-candy stalls, the games, and the rides ceased 
to operate one by one. All present moved to a nearby dark field for the crowning event of the night. 
Springsteen's "Born in the USA" crackled on the outdoor speakers. The days were growing shorter 
and colder and oranger and counties across America were marking the occasion. A man inter-
rupted the music to emphasize how long it had been since there had been fireworks at the Cheshire 
County Fall Festival: two year~. Everyone cheered and huddled into plastic furniture, gawking at 
the sparkly sky. 


Most of the people present were longtime residents of the county. Some stood in makeshift 
stalls selling hearty New England fare to brace us against the cold. Others milled about, visiting old 
friends. Their hipper children sucked on glowsticks, which shone eerie lavender and toxic green 
rough their cheeks. Still others stood in the long line to buy tickets for the rides. Then there were 
e carnies: lounging against rusty rides, winking at children, and flirting with teenagers. Finally, 
was a crew of miscellaneous outsiders: a group of black-veiled Muslim women; their ornery 
not savvy enough to have glow-in-the-dark pacifiers; a few college students who had grown 
up far from this place. My friends and I breathed in the sky along with the rest, transfixed by such 
carnival energy only a few miles from campus. 


We were hobked. Most weekends in September and October, we piled in a car and scout-
out county fairs around New Haven. We checked out prize-winning pumpkins, complete with 
doctored pictures of the winners "surfing" on their pumpkins on an artificial sea. We ten-
...... ~ ..... u scratched scrawny goats in petting zoos, trying not to offend the pancake-faced girls who 
jealously tended them. We stumbled into expositions where merchants hawked nail-buffers 
that would make our own nails shine like the classiest fakes, magical 
chamois that would gulp up stains no matter how stubborn, 
and cooking ware that would serve up meals so perfect 
that our intestines would rumble in appreciation for 


days. We almost rode in a hot-air balloon, scrutinized a butter sculpture for hours, and watched a 
determined pack of Amish musicians serenade indigent fair-goers. We dangled upside-down in 
mid-air with small Pakistani children who complained that America was "stupid and boring" and 
grumbled about how loudly we were screaming. We won no prizes on the midway and missed see-
ing Def Leppard play, but chugged the best vanilla milkshakes ever and made our hands sticky with 
swirls and swirls of cotton candy. 


When county fair season ended, the residents of each county retreated into their homes 
eager to plan next year's fun. My friends and I returned to our desolate dorm rooms, sulky and dis-
contented. 



**Title:  The Archives of Yehuda Amichai**
**Author: Anna Nemnetz**
**Page number(s): 21**

l~e arc~ives of Israel's ~est -~nown writer ~ave travele~ far to rest at Yale. 
W 
hen I was five years old, a poet came to my house and sat 
at my kitchen table. I couldn't pronounce his name, but I 
could see the respect my parents, both writing professors, had for 
him. He had a heavy-browed, gray-haired head and a gentle, 
accented voice, and he laughed with my father about passing the 
town of Pepsi-Cola (Pensacola, Florida) on the plane: "There must 
be a whole state of Coca-Cola," he said. When I was 16, we met 
again in his home city of Jerusalem. He read his poetry co a group 
of American teenagers in both Hebrew and English, and talked 
about the dream of peace. "Here is a man who has really figured out 
a way to live," I wrote in my journal that day. 
On September 22, 2000, the poet passed away. Yehuda 
Amichai, whose career spanned half a cenrury, was the quintessen-
tial writer of Israel and Jerusalem. So how did his archives end up 
here in the u.s., ar the Beinecke Libraty? The answer illuminates a 
tension that ran through the poet's entire life. 
Yehuda Amichai chose his own name, which means "My 
People Live." Born in Germany in 1924, he immigrated to Israel 
with his family in 1936. He was one of the few poets of his genera-
tion to attend a religious school, and although he was a lifetime 
agnostic, biblical and liturgical language flowed through his poetry. 
Benjamin Harshav, Yale's Blaustein Professor of Hebrew Language 
and Literature, first met Amichai during Israel's War of 
Independence in 1948 in the Negev, Israel's southern desert, when 
his brigade was relieving Amichai's. Amichai, four years older, was 
already a seasoned soldier, having served during World War 11 in 
Britain's Jewish Brigade. 
After the War of Independence and the establishment of the 
State of Israel, Harshav and his friends at Hebrew University Start-
ed a small literaty journal. Lilrrat (Toward) published "probably 
Arnichai's first poems," Harshav says. According to Harshav, it was 
a period of intellectual and social upheaval. "It was a very political 
time, the last days of Stalin," he says. "The whole country was on 
tuna (restraint). Very stricr rations; I mean, you got one egg a week. 
In 1951 suddenly there was a feeling of detaching from the ideology. 
NOVEMBER 10, 2000 
8~ An~a ~amenetz 
We called it 'Putting Zionism in quotation marks.' Socialism, too. 
We were tired of ideology, phraseology. 'Don't talk Zionism to me' 
meant don't talk abstracmess, philosophy." Arnichai's poetty fit 
right into this mood, with its insistence on the simple and the con-
crete. One early poem reads, in its entirety: 
Rain fills on the faces of my friends. 
My living friends, who 
Cover their heads with blankers 
And my dead friends, who 
Don't. 
These five short lines contain the essence of Amichai's poetry: emo-
tion conveyed obliquely, through an instantly recognizable image. 
Amichai studied literarure at Hebrew University and then 
taught primary and secondary school for a rime. His first book of 
poems, published in 1955, was called Now and in Other Times. 
"That was so revolutionary in Israel, where the past was every-
thing," says Harshav. "And suddenly he says 'Now.' What do you 
feel now? What do you experience now, personally? Love, making 
love. I would say Amichai was born in 1955 with this first book of 
poems. It was then that he became Amichai and he never went 
back." In Israel, Amichai was sometimes accused of "insufficient 
Zionism." But Arnichai never ignored politics, he simply drew a 
stronger line than most between the poetic and the political. "He 
wrote about peace and love," said Barbara Harshav, a lecrurer in 
Yale's Comparative Literature Department who, with her husband, 
translated much of Amichai's poetry into English, "[This,) in a 
country of war and hate, is a political statement." Amichai's poetry 
was also a statement about the future of the Hebrew language. 
"Amichai was accused of not knowing Hebrew," Benjamin Harshav 
said, because his language was so stripped down and focused on the 
entities of the modem world: helicopters, oil rigs, tanks. "His real 
achievement was putting the language of the everyday into Hebrew 
poetry," Barbara Harshav said. 
After initial critical reaction, Israel responded positively, raising 
Amichai to the starus of a national treasure over his career of five 
21 



**Amichai's Legacy: Poetry, Peace, and the Yale Archive**
**Author: Anya Kamenetz**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
decades. "Every soldier had in his kit bag a book of Amichai poetry," Barbara Harshav said. "I remember very clearly some years ago being in a bookstore in Jerusalem and seeing a grandmother come in ro buy a book of Amichai poems for her grandson as a bar mit'L-vah present." His front-page obituary in The ]erusakm Post noted that his last book of poems, Open Closed Open (1999) , stayed on the bestseller list for weeks, an almost unprecedented phenomenon in Israel for a book of poetry. He was the recipient of Israel's highest literary honors. And, as Benjamin Harshav notes, "He was able in his later years to make his living from the poetry. That's rare everywhere, but in a small country, it's incredible." 

This popularity soon spread beyond his small home country. 
Extensive translation secured Amichai's world reputation. His work was translated into 33 languages, from Finnish ro Chinese. The unusual success of these translations is tied ro his particular poetic concern with image, not language as such. "He was one of the easiest poets to translate because of his images---except when he worked in Biblical language, where the allusions can get lost," Barbara Harshav said. "Benjamin and I worked with him very closely on [Even a Fist was Once An Open Palm with Fingers (1989)], and there were a few of the compliments you hope for as a translator. [Amichai] said, 'Really, for the first rime I feel that this is what I wrote."' Knowing English well enough to evaluate his own translations, Amichai was restless and worked with many different translators, from poets and others who knew little Hebrew, like Ted Hughes and Stephen Mitchell, to native Hebrew speakers like Chana Bloch. 
Hughes, a longtime friend, said, "He was known and loved the world over." Benjamin Harshav points out that Yale professor J. D. McClatchy's Vintage Anthology of World Litn-ature included about 20 Amichai poems and says, "This is what Amichai always wanted, to be a world poet." 
Rabbi James Ponec, who hosted Amichai in New Haven several times over the lase 20 years, recalls the first meeting between Amichai and American Poet Laureate Robert Pinsky, which occurred at Yale in 1996: "Pinsky was very excited ro meet him-stretched our his hand and said 'Hello, maestro.' I think he really saw Amichai as the giant leading the way." 

Yet no matter how well-respected, how universal his sentiments, or how translatable his images, Amichai remained inextricably grounded in his home soil of Israel. He saw action in every major war of his country, serving as a sergeant major in the reserves until the age of 55· And it may have been the battlefields of Israel that kept Amichai from receiving literature's highest honor. Most of his obituaries noted that he was a perennial nominee for the Nobel Prize, which is given only to living writers. "I think the issue was that they wouldn't give it to an Israeli until there was peace," said Benjamin Harshav. "His archives coming here, to a world university, is almost a consolation prize for his not receiving the Nobel," said Ponet. 

So how exactly did they get co Yale? Amichai's friends and acquaintances here offer different explanations, but mostly they come down to money. "It could be argued that his archive belongs in Israel," said Geoffrey Hartman, Sterling Professor Emeritus of English and Comparative Literature and a friend of Amichai's since the 1950s. "Unfortunately, Israel does not seem co have public funds to properly care for this important legacy. That is one reason why Amichai's manuscripts are better off at Yale.'' Ponet adds another reason: "I know he wanted to be able co leave some money to his family, and the Beinecke was able ro pay him something substantial. I know he felt bad about it. He had to choose between leaving his papers in the country and leaving some money to his family-one of his daughters is in her early twenties." Vincent Giroud, the Beinecke's Curator of Modern Books and Manuscripts, hesitates ro give the Library's exact figure paid for Amichai's papers. He notes only that the prices for such acquisitions generally range from about "10,000 pounds" to "astronomical" figures adding, "I think we paid a fair price." How exactly the deal was made is another delicate matter. Hartman says he was originally approached by the Beinecke about Amichai's papers several years ago, and obtained the poet's provisional consent, but that "various complications ensued." 
Giroud says the sale was negotiated through a few different dealers over a period of ten years. He adds, "It's obvious that for an archive so important as that of Amichai's we needed the permission of the national Israeli archivist." To the charge that the archives should have remained in Israel, Giroud says, "It's a legitimate concern, bur the only answer we can give is that it's available to them here." 
Davi Bernstein, an undergraduate, is working on the initial inventory, translating Amichai's instructions for the archivists and putting a catalog online as quickly as possible. 

In this information age, the resting place of scholarly material may be a matter of largely sentimental importance. Yet there is cause for sadness in the idea of a country that cannot afford to keep the letters and manuscripts of its greatest poet. It is especially sad for Israel to lose him now, shaken as the country is by yet another convulsion of violence. Amichai's poetry sustained the theme of being twinned in fate with his country: "When I was young, the whole country was young," he wrote. A week after he died, on September 28, Israeli Defense Minister Ariel Sharon stepped onto the Temple Mount, revered by both Jews and Muslims, touching off the recent violence that has claimed over 160 lives to dare, the majority Palestinian. "I, may I rest in peace," read one of Amichai's lase poems, "I don't want to wait until I die to have peace ... I want peace right now, while I'm alive." As I listened to these words at Amichai's memorial service, in the hushed, translucent marble space of Beinecke, the ironies multiplied. An old man's wish for rest echoes his country's forgotten cry for peace; but even as we celebrate his life, the struggle rages on. 
Anya .Kamenetz, a junior in Davenport College, is a managing editor for TNJ· 
THE NEW JOURNAL


**Deliverance**
**Author:  Unlisted**
**Page number(s): 24**

ESSAY 
• 
Deliverance 
Brother Stephen White, born-again Christian preacher, modern-day "saint" and self-proclaimed "Soldier of Christ," has positioned himself no more than 50 yards from my dorm room window for the past two days. His constant stream of jeers and proclamations and the shouted responses of indignant Yale students seep in as I immerse myself in microeconomics and French philosophy. 
Campus buzz is all about the "crazy Christian guy on Wall Street." Brother Stephen's arrival at Yale, with his wife, kids, and apprentice Brother Jeff in tow, coincides with National Coming Out Day 2000. Signs of support for the event are ubiquitous on our progressive campus: Small pink banners fly from campus windows, pink triangle and "Straight bur not narrow" pins adorn backpacks, and the Lesbian-Gay-Bisexual-Transgender Co-operative has set up a door on Cross Campus with "The Closet" markered across it in large black letters. Just across Wall Street from this display, Brother Stephen attracts quite a crowd. Yalies usually are self-involved: Political rallies and demonstrations, even for causes that most students agree with, consistently draw fewer than 40 people. But for two days, a mass of at least that number has surrounded Brother Stephen almost continuously as he prances and jumps and howls and shakes his fist, scathingly denouncing everyone from homosexuals to tree-huggers to potheads to Catholics. I skipped two classes just to listen. 

It is a warm October afternoon and dozens of Yalies stop on their way home from class to watch the spectacle. Someone in the crowd mentions that Brother Stephen is leaving Yale this same evening and heading to Philadelphia. This last point catches my attention: I too am on my way to Philadelphia, to visit a friend at the University of Pennsylvania, and I need a ride. 

After a moment's hesitation, I approach Laurie, Brother Stephen's wife, who is sitting on a collapsible lawn chair with their two children (Philip, 2, and Wesley, 9 months) in her lap, and strike up a conversation with her. I manage to bring up Philadelphia almost immediately and within minutes, feeling only a twinge of guile for so shamelessly taking advantage of her Christian charity, have secured a spot for myself in their car. 

I run up to my room to grab a bag, let my roommates know where I'm going, and, more importantly, how I'm getting there. Disbelief quickly turns into a mix of amusement and concern. They advise, "I wouldn't ride with him if I were you. That man is mentally ill. He thinks he's a saint." And, "Are you really going to deal with six hours of him preaching at you? I think I would kill him by the end." I smile, shrug, and head out the door, prepared for six righteous hours of hellfire and brimstone on the road to the City of Brotherly Love. 

BROTHER STEPHEN SPEAKS IN A SQUEAKY ARKANSAS DRAWL, peppering short sentences with proclamations of "Praise the Lord" and "Praise be to Jesus." If written, his speech would contain frequent exclamation points and italicized phrases. He is an old-time Southern traveling preacher, straight out of a Flannery O'Connor novel. 

As we squeeze into his plain white Mazda, Brother Stephen tells me that he's been craving a burger all day. I direct him to a Burger King down Whalley Avenue. I'm a bit nervous about the whole endeavor: In his preaching earlier in the day, Brother Stephen had taken some decisive swipes at inner cities and black culture, especially "reefer-sucking, fornicating" rap icons like Tupac Shakur. Mixing Brother Stephen with the standard New Haven crowd seems like a recipe for disaster. 

After seeing Brother Stephen in action for the past two days, his change in demeanor when we get in the car is disarming. We make small talk; he asks me where I'm from, what I'm studying, why I decided to go to Yale, what my parents do. Though an occasional "Praise the Lord" or "Our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ" still pops up, he is low-key and down-to-earth, someone who has an easy time talking to people and clearly enjoys it. He's almost someone I'd like to sit down and have a beer with-if we'd met in a different context, and if he drank alcohol. Even when the conversation takes a turn towards religion and philosophy, he remains calm, and by the time we reach the Burger King, he knows the basic facts of my life: I am a Jew; I am agnostic; and I have violated more than one of the Ten Commandments. 

I go sit in a booth with Laurie and her two sons while Brother Stephen and Brother Jeff stand in line. The contrast is almost comic: The two preachers, blond hair gelled into submission, wait politely in dark suits among the mostly black, casually dressed clientele. But after a minute, I look back and both are jabbering away at the person next to them in line, Brother Stephen animated, Brother Jeff poised. A minute later, Brother Stephen is offering his email address to a teenager wearing a leather Fubu Jacket, red Yankees hat turned sideways, and a thick gold chain around his neck. The teenager accepts the card, and gives Brother Stephen his phone number. 

BROTHER STEPHEN CLAIMS that he was called to preach when he was 19 years old, six years born again and living in Arkansas. He was "saved" at thirteen. I can only imagine what sins lay in his closet at that tender age. But, no matter-he was willing to make the "transformative atonement." 

Brother Stephen has spent most of the past ten years of his life 



**Title: Six righteous hours of hellfire and britnstone**
**Author: Daniel Kurtz-Phelan**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Six righteous hours of hellfire and britnstone 
on the road to .. the City of Brotherly Love 
.-
preaching at eastern universities like Penn, Princeton, and Yale. The 
routine is more or less the same each time: Set up shop on a busy cam-
pus thoroughfare, straighten the tie and bring out the Bible, then 
launch an epic session of heckling, prostrating, haranguing, con-
demning, and proclaiming. At first, passers-by glance nervously at the 
gray-suited Soldier of God and try to avoid his taunts, bigoted cen-
sures, and hallelujahs. Soon, a crowd gathers around him and the 
spectacle begins. Students, dripping with righteous indignation, con-
front the preacher. They get in his face and yell: denunciations, 
streams of obscenities, insults. At Princeton, Brother Stephen tells 
me, one student, "a Jewish boy," actually hit him. "We're going to 
cake that kid to court," Laurie assures me. 

At Yale, students' responses have ranged from outrage co 
mild amusement. One student walked up to Brother Stephen and 
blew smoke in his eyes. Two female friends of mine talked about 
standing in front of him and licking each ochers' faces. Most Yalies 
stop to watch for a bit, then move on, casually mentioning the 
"freak on Wall Street" or the "crazy Christian guy" in the dining hall 
or before class. I wonder if Brother Stephen knows chat his shoucing 
and jumping and frantic arm-waving is co most of us merely a freak 
show, and chat his devotion and faith are just further evidence of his 
insanity, something to be laughed about and mocked, then forgotten. I 
don't want to tell him, as ifl have some reason to protect him and his feel-
togs. 

So we talk about the righteous objectors, the students who confront him 
and argue with him. Brother Stephen's act is meant to be interactive--he mocks, 
he jeers, he accuses listeners of sin and informs them that they will "spend eter-
nity in a lake of fire," and he expects them to talk back. That is why, Laurie tells 
me, Stephen likes to preach at Ivy League schools: Here students argue with 
him. They talk philosophy and theology and sociology and politics and the 
Bible, even if discussion is not always civil. At some schools, UConn for exam-
ple, students just walk by and tell him to fuck off, not even taking the cime 
to stop and watch the show. 

No one is more outraged by Brother Stephen than the handful of 
devout Christians on campus. To them, his Christianity is an egregious 
perversion of their religion and their Bible. I have trouble ascertaining just 
what kind of Christian Brother Stephen is--according to him, there is 
only one kind, and his kind is it. "All those ChristiAns at Yak,,. he cells 
me, "aren't really Christians. If you are a true Christian, you devore your-
self co spreading the word of the Bible and helping people realize Jesus 
as the son of God." Those Christians at Yale have, for the most part, 
been fierce and vocal in their opposition to him. But, Brother Stephen 
tells me, this opposition does not reflect the feelings of the true 
Christians at the University. '"I ask Christians if they chink homosexuals 
att going to hell," he elaborates, "and they say yes. But they whisper-
NOVEMBER 10, 2000 

they're afraid to shout it out. I'm here to 
make Christians know that they can shout 
out their beliefs and their faith in Jesus 
Christ!" 

I TELL BROTHER STEPHEN that I am a 
writer, and ask whether I can write about 
the trip. His reply is an unequivocal, 
"Absolutely." Brother Stephen, it seems, 
loves publicity. He brags about frequent 
articles in the Daily Pennsylvanian and the 
Princetonian, and claims that he was men-
tioned in the New York Times in an article 
about evangelical preachers disrupting 
Republican 
convention-goers 
in 
Philadelphia this summer. On the dash-
board, there is a stack of copies (presum-
ably to hand out back home) of the 
October 12 Yale Daily News, the front page 
of which is dominated by a picture of 
Stephen, looking wild-eyed and possessed 
with a Bible in hand, and the headline 
"Zealot preaches to Yale masses." Still, he is 
not happy about the paper's coverage. "The 
Yale Daily News printed nasty info about 
me and the Gospel of Jesus Christ," he 
calmly explains. "One Yale student actually 
said 'I have not been to Sunday school in 10 
years and I know the Bible better than 
Brother Stephen.' Of course, this freshman 
wouldn't dare humiliate himself by making 
himself known to me." 

By the time we get on 1-95 and head 
towards New York City, Stephen, Jeff, and 
Laurie are discussing the day. They sound 
like high school athletes on their way home 
from a big victory, recounting the events 
play by play. "Remember when that one 
kid came up and argued with me about 
Romans?" Stephen asks us, grinning, victo-
rious. "Yeah, you told him," Brother Jeff 
shoots back, and they all shake their heads 
and smile. It occurs ro me that Brother 
Stephen, Brother Jeff, and Laurie do not 
see even a hint of validity in the various 
arguments-Biblical, philosophical, socio-
logical, political-brought against them by 
the academic elite of America. Every anec-
dote they mention ends with the same con~ 
tented smile and sense of victory; to them, 
their logic is impeccable. 

At Yale there was an almost endless 
stream of cock-sure kids marching up to 
Brother Stephen and declaring their own 
grain of incontrovertible evidence or unde-
niable reasoning that would prove, without 
a doubt, that he is wrong. Yet his beliefs 
have not changed, nor has he been con-
verted to the truth through some flawlessly 
argued philosophy or a student's assertion 
that "God is love." "People come up to hjm 
and they think that they can change his 
mind," Laurie says, "but he hears the same 
arguments everywhere, and if they didn't 
work the first time, they're not going to 
work now." 

After all this talk of preaching, I'm 
curious: How many converts has Brother 
Stephen won in the past 18 years? For his 
entire adult life, he has spent nearly every 
day either studying the Bible or spreading 
the Gospel at a mall or baseball game or on 
a college campus. He often preaches for ten 
or twelve hours at a time, shaking his fist 
and shouting and waving his Bible at all 
who care to listen and many who don't. His 
answer surprises me: "I've never actually 
saved someone." But he does not seem 
bothered in the least, presumably because 
of his faith. To his mind, every true 
Christian is driven to preach this same 
message of the Gospel-otherwise, you 
would not be a true Christian, he asserts, 
just like the silent ones at Yale. Laurie 
chimes in, supporting her husband: "You 
have to take a radical stand for righteous-
ness. " 

BY THE TIME WE GET ON 1-295 to 
Philadelphia, Philip is asleep and Brother 
Stephen and Brother Jeff are in the front, 
unabashedly belting out the lyrics of the 
acoustic evangelical music on the stereo. 
The words have something to do with 
Jesus being there for you when your belief 
is threatened by the cold and hard world, 
but I stopped paying attention after the 
first few songs, all of which sounded the 
same to my ear. I am in the back with 
Laurie, her youngest son asleep in her 
arms. "You know," she begins, eyeing me, 
"I used to be a sinner." I nod and look 
away. The silence is easier. 

But she goes on, unprompted. "I used 
to sin. I fornicated. I would, like, go co 
parties. I cursed all the time, it was always, 
like, 'F' this and 'F' that." She grew up in 
New Jersey in a non-religious family and 
went to college jaded and indulgent. I try 
to imagine her as a college student, some-
one I would see drinking keg-beer at a 
party or huddled, smoking a joint, laugh-
ing on a dark quadrangle. She is looking at 
me earnestly. I ask her when she changed, 
when she was "saved," and, more impor-
tantly, how. Her answer is matter-of-fact. 
When she was a sophomore .at West 

Chester University, she "just didn't like 
going to parties anymore." I press her for 
an explanation. "I didn't curse, I didn't 
drink, I just didn't want to go out for, like, 
a few weekends in a row." And? "It was a 
sign from God." 

Laurie joined a campus crusade, grad-
ually gave up her old sinning friends, and 
"devoted her life to Christ." She met':'-
Stephen rwo years later, at a college min-
istry retreat. They continued running into 
each other over the next several years. In 
1997, Stephen "thought about all the men 
of God who had great wives" and decided 
to pray for one. Lo and behold, he soon 
unexpectedly bumped into Laurie and 
wondered if "this could be the Lord." After 
subjecting her to a strict set of criteria (for 
example, "she had to want to have many 
children" and ''be a good cook and like car-
ing for the home"), he approached her 
father to ask for his daughter's hand in 
marriage. 

What surprises me more than any-
thing is that Laurie is not the meek, 
unopinionated, old-fashioned wife I 
expected her to be. At one point earlier in 
the day, as I watched Brother Stephen, a 
female friend approached me, pointed at 
Laurie, and whispered, "God, I wonder 
what the wife is thinking." Indeed, the 
scene did seem easy enough to pigeonhole: 
the Good Christian, an old-fashioned 
chauvinist, and his subservient wife who 
smiles approvingly and minds the children. 
But unless Brother Stephen and his wife's 
interaction in the car ride is an elaborate 
charade for my benefit, this prejudice is far 
from true. 


Laurie is girlish-looking, with a few 
lingering freckles and mousy brown hair 
pulled back in a ponytail, and she wears a 
simple brown dress with a white turtleneck 
underneath. While her husband drives, 
singing along to his favorite evangelical 
rock tape, we talk politics and the history 
of the evangelical movement and child-
rearing. Laurie is a social worker in the 
poor, rundown area of West Philadelphia 
where they live. "Some of the higher-up 
people in [the company where I work] are 
homosexuals," she tells me, as if searching 
for approval by demonstrating her capacity 
for tolerance. Yet she also explains the 
ongoing homosexual plot to inftltrate the 
public school system, a fact affirmed by "a 
mass of evidence" that she refrains from 
explaining. Her kids, of course, will be 
home-schooled. 

The presence of the kids has made me 
uncomfortable since the ride began. Before 
he fell asleep, Philip taught me the "B-I-B-
L-E" song and we read the story of Noah's 
Ark (he also quoted Bible passages to me 
while his parents coached him). Earlier in 
the ride, Laurie slapped him for hitting his 
brother. Noticing my gaze, she explained, 
"You have to show them pain when they do 
something wrong." 

THE PHILADELPHIA NIGHT is clear and crisp 
and at midnight we pull up to a large house 
near the Penn campus with Greek letters 
above the door. Heavy bass can be heard 
from inside, and, occasionally, a group of 
students goes in or out. My friend the frat 
boy stands outside, beer in hand, the stu-
pefied smile of drunkenness plastered on 
his face. I squirm uncomfortably-! am 
loath to let Brother Stephen, Brother Jeff, 
and Laurie see the world I'll enter (or, more 
accurately, reenter} after I leave the car. 

Brother Stephen turns around in his 
seat to face me. He is smiling, his blue eyes 
friendly. I thank them, trying to be profuse 
while still rushing to escape this awkward 
state of limbo. But, as I express my grati-
tude, Brother Stephen interrupts me: "No, 
thank you. Thank you and your people for 
the Holy Bible. Thank you for spending 
these hours with us." He gives me a pam-
phlet. "Take this," he tells me and I look 
down at the paper. "Soldiers of Christ" is 
printed boldly across the top. I pretend to 
study it, nod, and start to get out of the car. 
Brother Stephen stops me. "Brother 
Daniel," he addresses me. His voice drips 
with earnestness; his gaze is magnetic. 
"Atont'with me, Brother Daniel. You could 
die at any moment, and you wi/J go to hell. 
I don't want that, Brother Daniel!" He goes 
on. I don't move. Can all of this really be 
honest, genuine care for all of the sinners 
like me whom be believes will spend an 
eternity burning in hell? At the moment, I 
feel like it is. But, I guess that's exactly what 
Brother Stephen wants me to feel. "Pray 
with me, praise the Lord! Atone with 
me .... " With Brother Stephen's words still 
ringing in my head, I step out of the car 
and head for the keg. 

a1J 
Daniel Kurtz-Pht'lan, a sophomo~ in 
Bt'T'Iuley Co/kgt', is rt'St'arch dirt'ctor for TNJ. 
27 



**Joe College**
**Author: Alan Schoenfeld**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
A. STOVER FOR 
J 
ust as every high school student in America 
knows a Tracy Flick, the painfully overachieving 
protagonist from Tom Perrotta's novel Election, every 
Yalie knows a Kristin Willard. She is the "prep school 
girl from Greenwich, a long-limbed beauty with an 
overactive social conscience" who works in the 
Branford Dining Hall with Danny, the working-class 
hero of Perrotta's latest book, joe College. Kristin 
Willard is the first of many eerily familiar characters 
that Perrotta, himself a Yale graduate and English 
instructor at Har¥ard, offers throughout the novel. 
Despite certain fajlings, Perrotta pulls off the best fic-
tional rendering of modern Yale in recent memory. 
The novel begins and ends in a few tumultuous 
weeks during the spring semester of 1982. Danny, a 
feckless junior English major, passes his days trudging 
through Middlnnarch and complaining bitterly about 
his reading even though he doesn't mean a word of it. 
Like his fellow Yale weenies, he is dumbfounded by 
the centrality of singing groups to campus life and 
constantly questions the veracity of rumors about the 
sex everyone is having in CCL. At Naples, he "jockeys 
for position among the mob of ex-National Merit 
Scholars and former student council presidents" who 
wave "plastic plates in the air like extras in a movie 
about the Depression." 
Though Danny is comfortable in the bi2arre uni-
verse that is Yale-where Whlffenpoofs spontaneous-
ly break into song in stairwells and where be is sur-
rounded by the likes of classmate Jodie Foster-he is 
torn between his collegiate home and his working-
class roots in an Icalian New Jersey neighborhood. At 
Yale, he "plays up the working-class angle," which his 
wealthier friends find "vaguely exotic." He tells chival-
rous tales of his exploits aboard the Roach Coach (so 
named because of the grinning cockroach on the pas-
senger door), the lunch truck his father operates at 
various office parking lots and construction sites 
throughout the Garden State. 


At the same time, though, he downplays his rela-
tionship with Cindy, the secretary with whom he had 
a more-than-a-fling the previous summer. He prefers 
to cavort around campus with Polly, a fel-
low writer for Reality, the campus literary 
magazine "devoted to everything but col-
lege, [a magazine] that focused on 
exploited workers, violent crime, urban 
poverty, and moral squalor." The cover of the first issue 
features a picture of a dog defecating, and the magnine 
refuses to accommodate any "sonnets about menstrua-
tion" or "wacky stories about summer jobs." Despite his 
best efforts, Danny's affection for Polly goes mostly unre-
quited: She is engaged in a torrid, dramatic, on-again-off-
again relationship with Peter Preston, a young professor in 
the English department. · 
Danny's relationships with Cindy and Polly highlight 
the tension between the two worlds in which our hero 
lives. At school, Danny's women of choice "favored baggy 
sweaters and objected to makeup on political grounds." 
Cindy, though, "chewed Juicy Fruit, painted her nails, 
and didn't skimp on the eyeshadow." Her appeal, there-
fore, is less as a girlfriend than "as a potential anecdote, a 
puzzling and amusing srory I would share with my room-
mates in one of those hilarious late-night conversations 
that I missed so much when I was away from college." 
Danny is honest with himself and wjch the reader, but 
rarely, if ever, with the people who surround him. 
The greatest strength of the novel is Danny's relent-
less candor, his searing introspection and self-criticism. 
Perrotta has a real gift for capturing the idiosyncratic Yale 
undergraduate experience in all its glorious self-discovery 
and self-loathing. He understands the strange interper-
sonal dynamics of late bloomers who must prove their 
mettle by saying things like, "You ever try to read George 
Eliot stoned?" And he understands how the largest steps 
toward maturity and autonomy are ofren taken on the 
least dangerous roads. For example, after months of 
mockery and pressure from his Korean roommate Sang, 
Danny finally decides to taste kimchi, the spicy Korean 
cabbage delicacy. With all the bravado of a knight about 
to go into battle, Danny downs a tiny piece of the briny 
cabbage. All in his presence approvingly proclaim that he 
has lost his "kimchi virginity." 
As Danny matures, his acts of bravery increase in 
their intensity. When he returns home for spring break, he 
must once again take the helm of the Roach Coach 
because 
his 
father 
is 


--- Page 29 ---

OUR TIME 
"t· 
bedridden, recovering from a long-overdue 
hemorrhoid operation. A family of bul-
lies--the Lunch Monsters, led by Vito 
Meatballs--has invaded the town and 
intends to take over Danny's and all the 
other lunch truck operators' businesses. 
When one of Vito's henchmen stops 
Danny at a traffic light and tells him not to 
show up for work dte next day, Danny 
promptly tells him to "fuck off." At the 
warehouse where all the truck operators 
pick up their provisions for the day, Fat 
Teddy and Pete the Polack, men three 
times Danny's age, inform him that "he's 
got balls." 
But dlls bravado does not easily trans-
late into the emotional bravery he needs to 
deal successfully with either of his love 
interests. Perrotta does a solid job of 
exploring the intricacies of Danny's double 
life, in which small successes are coupled 
with much greater setbacks. As things 
begin to improve with Polly, Cindy 
announces that she is pregnant with 
Danny's child, and Danny effectively loses 
both women. Individual crises do not 
destroy Danny, but each teaches him a 
small lesson that contributes to his discov-
ery of who he is, what he wants, and how 
be fits into one or both of the worlds he 
inhabits. 
As Danny makes his journey from 
inexperienced 2.o-year old to seasoned 2.o-
year old, it is dte people around him who 
motivate, enable, and demand the transi-
tion. In order to ensure that me transition 
is believable, Perrotta treats everyone fairly, 
from Lorelei, dte hapless New Haven high 
school student who works widt Danny in 
the dining hall, to Matt, the son of a GM 
executive who tells everyone his father is a 
car salesman. Throughout the novel 
Perrotta also sprinkles characters familiar 
co anyone who has spent some time at 
Yale: the American Studies graduate stu-
dan willing to advise Danny's friend on an 
independent srudy of presidential assassins 
NOVEMBER 10, 2.000 
f oe College, Tom Perrotta 
(St. Martin's Press, 2000), pp. 306. 
and their pop culture appeal, the neighbor 
who invites friends over to parry on his 
"conceptual patio," and the conservative 
Yak Daily NL"Wscolumnist who laments the 
loss of tradition at fair olde Yale. 
foe Colkge, however, is far from per-
fect. Perrotta does not always avoid facile 
characterization, and several characters are 
flat and barely believable. Cindy's mother is 
almost too perfectly pitiful as the ex-strip-
per, ex-junky schizophrenic, and Nick is 
dte always-cursing, belligerent-dining-hall-
worker everyman. Without the least bit of 
irony, Perrotta envisions a sort of class 
utopia where left-leaning, bourgeois Yalies 
and real live working-class folks get along 
and might even learn a little bit from each 
oilier. In addition, the turns and endings of 
many plot lines are absurdly simple and 
convenient. The appearance of an erstwhile 
boyfriend itching to be a father solves 
Cindy's pregnancy problem and an inci-
dent of plagiarism is nearly covered up. 
Despite its faults, Joe Colkge is a 
tremendously readable book. Danny's 
humor and candor make him a fantastic 
narrator while his teen angst makes him a 
believable and sympathetic hero. For those 
who want to read about the trials of an 
intelligent and nobly lost protagonist, the 
book is entertaining, albeit simplistic. But 
for Yale readers who have a prurient inter-
est in seeing their alma mater in print, the 
book's weaknesses are far less important 
dtan the accuracy of most of Perrotta's 
descriptions; foe College is a captivating 
portrait of life on this side of Phelps Gate. 
18] 
Alan Schomfold. a junior in Saybrook 
Co/lege, is editor-in-chiif for TNJ. 
f3F1 


**Bringing Up the Rear**
**Author: Matthew Underwood**
**Page number(s): 30**

Bringing Up the Rear 
I t's five minutes before the gun, and we are gathered at the start-
ing line to stretch. Th~ Official Guide to th~ New Haven Road Rae~ 
claims that more than 5,000 runners from all over the world are 
· here. The New Haven 
There are yuppie 
out 
"Imperial 
theme from Chariots 
standing next to me; in an 
those two British sprinters, all in 
him, I awkwardly explain that 
"You see," I say, "I finish last." 
I can act, I can sing, 
"husky" (so said my blue 
keep a pace comparable 
gests, for Connecticut's top 
joke--Steve Swift. As we cross the 
pass me by, followed closely by 
Frenchmen, and even, in a crushing 
ter-than-I Yale President Richard Levin. I'm 
with the beer-bellied ex-Marines and the 
miniature hum-vees. I cross the finish line 32 
onds later, gasping, exhausted, and in 1,434th 
tility carriages 
their girlfriends, 
be able to handle 
1,822 competitors, so even though I finish uu-~.u·-•v-.... 
group, I feel fully justified in declaring that I have 
of people. 
At this point, I ought to be happy. After weeks of training, 
I finally catch my breath, and the pain recedes. I'm still aware, how-
ever, that my race is not yet over. In fact, the road race season has 
just begun in southern Connecticut, and I have to keep training to 
By Matthevv Undervvood 
stay in shape. Of course, everything that can stand between me and 
the track inevitably does. Late nights studying leave me exhausted. 
I'm tripped up by a malicious case of the grippe--no doubt a gift 
from the scheming Frenchmen who haunted the start line. A battle 
with a microscopic but ferocious little fungus keeps me stepping 
lightly for weeks, my wide strides reminiscent of John Wayne's dis-
mounting his horse. 
Yet while my body mounts a stiaightforward attack, my mind 
strikes more subtly. Everyday comments remind me of my pending 
fate. "Come 
as we rush to class, "we're running 
late." I get 
homework assignments with 
warnings that 
Even in the dining hall, I'm 
haunted. "Hey, 
" yells a voice in the slow-moving 
"Where's the 
another. I begin to wonder 
soJneno·w beyond my control, an inertia 
sadist has laid out 
plete the first of 
raise my hands · 
ing their 
another mile 
throwing 
age group, I've 
The Yale 
day. As I survey the 
group, and they're 
school years, how they all 
breath. The race begins with a 
the beginning I'm bringing up 
· 
my forehead, lungs burning, 
dead last. There are no cheers, 
even any people: Half of my own 
gather up the line marker as I 
as the sun sets, bringing an end to the 
winners, complec-
1 trudge through 
three-year-olds 
out of 170. In my 
year. There will be plenty of races next year for me 
a while, at least, I can relax and take it slow. 
MatthnQ Untkrwood, a sophomo" in Davenport Co/kg~. is on th~ staff ofTNJ. 



**Title: TERCENTENNIAL**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
TERCENTENNIAL 
a time for the Yale Community to reflect on our 
accomplishments and our vision for the future 
More than two dozen new books highlight 
the many ways Yale University and its 
graduates have contributed to culture. 
The Yale Bookstore has a wide selection, 
including Richard Benson's beautiful 
look at Yale University during the 20th 
Century entitled A Yale Album ($39.95). 
Other titles now available include the 
Michelin Green Guide to Yale 
University and New Haven. 
We're going all out to celebrate Yale's first 300 
years, with everything from t-shirts to unique 
collector's items. If your catalog hasn't arrived 
in your mailbox, call us toll-free and we'll send 
you one: 1-888-730-YALE (9253), ext. 166. 
77 Broadway at York Square • New Haven THE YALE 
203-777-8440 • toll-free 1-888-730-YALE BOOKSTORE 
website: www. yalebookstore.com 
email: theyalebookstore@snet.net 
NOVEMBER 10, 2000 



The "Original" Copy Center 
1971 
1973 
1978 
59 Broadway 
11 Broadway 
27 Broadway 
CEL-EBRATING 30 YEARS 
1971-2001 
BANNERS 
BINDING 
BUSINESS CARDS 
COLOR 
COPIES 
CASSETIE COPYING 
DESKTOP 
PUBLISHING 
DIGITAL 
B/W&COLOR 
OUTPUT 
FAXING 
HIGHLIGHT COLOR 
Family Owned and Operated 
262 ELM STREET at Broadway 
NEW HAVEN, CT 06511 
203 562.9723 
1.888. TYCOCOPY 
EMAIL: tycocopy@snet.net 
www.tycocopy.com 
LAMINATING 
LARGE 
DOCUMENT COPYING 
LARGE FORMAT COWR 
MAILING 
MOUNTING 
OFFSET 
PRINTING 
PASSPORT PHOTOS 
RESUMES 
RUBBER STAMPS 
XEROX 
COPYING

