Publication date: April 2008
Volume: 40
Issue number: 5

**MASTHEAD**
- Publisher: Lauren Harrbon
- Editor-in-Chief: Nicole Allan
- Managing Editor: Mitch Reich, Laura Zax
- Design: Alice Buttrick
- Senior Editor: Nick Handler, John Jacks, Aditi Ramakrishnan
- Production Manager: Ben Lasman
- Photo Editors: Jess Dearing, Miranda Popkey
- Web Editors: Ali Seitz, Mai Wang
- Associate Editors: Laura Bennett, Amy Fish, Sarah Nutman, Kate Selker
- Research Director: Laura Yao
- Copy Editor: Alexandra Schwam
- Members and Directors: Joshua Civin, Peter B. Cooper, Tom Griggs, Roger Cohn, Brooks Kelley, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Kathrin Lassila, Jennifer Pirro, Henry Schwab, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Leeper, David Slifka, Fred Strebeigh, Thomas Strong, John Swansburg
- Advisors: Richard Bradley, Jay Carney, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Michael Addison, Austin Family Fund, Steve Ballou, J. Neela Banerjee, Margaret Bauer, Emily Bazelon, Anson M. Beard, Jr., Blaire Bennett, Richard Bradley, Martha Brant, Susan Braudy, Daniel Brook, Hilary Callahan, Jay Carney, Daphne Chu, Josh Civin, Jonathan M. Clark, Constance Clement, Andy Court, Mai Denison, Albert J. Fox, Mrs. Howard Fox, David Freeman, Geoffrey Fried, Sherwin Goldman, David Greenberg, Stephen Hellman, Laura Heymann, Gerald Hwang, Walter Jacob, Jane Karwensky, Tina Kelley, Roger Kirkwood, Jonathan Lear, Lewis E. Lehrman, Jim Love, E. Nobles Lowe, Daniel Murphy, Martha E. Neil, Peter Neil, Howard H. Newman, Sean O'Brien, Laura Pappano, Julie Peters, Lewis and Joan Platt, Josh Plaut, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, Fairfax C. Randall, Robert Randolph, Stuart Rohrer, Arleen and Arthur Sager, Richard Shields, Wes Hampton Sides, Lisa Sherman, Ron Simpson, Adina Proposco and David Sulsman, Thomas Strong, Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Wilson, Daniel Yergin and Angela Stern Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- LIVING ON THE EDGE - Miub Rom
- CLASS CONSCIOUSNESS - Ain Hammon
- SKETCHES IN ILLUMINE - Rachel Engler
- BUS, BUS, PLUS - Miranda Popkey
- TOWN BICYCLE - Mai Wang
- POINTS OF DEPARTURE - Laura Yao
- PROFILE - Laura Zax
- PERSONAL ESSAY - Sophia Lear
- THE CRITICAL ANGLE - Amy Fish
- ENDNOTE - Ben Lasman


**Title: LIVING ON THE EDGE**
**Author: Miub Rom**
**Page number(s): 20**


Yale develop plans for new colleges, but 
will it develop Lower Hillhouse?


<br>

**Title: CLASS CONSCIOUSNESS**
**Author: Ain Hammon**
**Page number(s): 26**


Yale College reevaluates freshman seminars.



**Title: SKETCHES IN ILLUMINE**
**Author: Rachel Engler**
**Page number(s): 9**


Creating our favorite coffee shop.



**Title: BUS, BUS, PLUS**
**Author: Miranda Popkey**
**Page number(s): 14**


Birth control prices get knocked up.



**Title: TOWN BICYCLE**
**Author: Mai Wang**
**Page number(s): 18**


Bike Collective offer Fair Haveners a free 
ride.



**Title: POINTS OF DEPARTURE**
**Author: Laura Yao**
**Page number(s): 11**



**Title: PROFILE**
**Author: Laura Zax**
**Page number(s): 16**



**Title: PERSONAL ESSAY**
**Author: Sophia Lear**
**Page number(s): 34**


The Family We Choose



**Title: THE CRITICAL ANGLE**
**Author: Amy Fish**
**Page number(s): 30**


The Van Vechten Files: Confronting a literary 
icon's controversial collection



**Title: ENDNOTE**
**Author: Ben Lasman**
**Page number(s): 38**


Real to Red


**Title: POINTS OF DEPARTURE**
**Author: Marissa Grunes**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
POINTS OF DEPARTURE 
SCUBA LIBRE 
Instructor Lee Livingston smacks his fist 
against his palm, and a resounding pop 
carries through the water. Hearing this 
signal for Look out!, we turn slowly to 
identify its source, careful to draw our 
gear tight about our bodies. With 62 
pounds per cubic foot of water above us, 
every motion must be gentle and precise. 
“Look at me!” Livingston growls, poking 
two fingers emphatically towards his face. 
Silent and docile as manatees, we obey 
and await further instruction. 


At half past noon every Sunday, I head 
to a classroom in the basement of Payne 
Whitney Gym to find Livingston, a lean 
man bristling with a gray beard, drawing 
charts and graphs on the whiteboard. For 
$450 and one semester’s worth of Sun-
days, he is teaching me to be a certified 
scuba diver. 


At the end of the class, we will perform 
open-water check-out dives in the cold, 
murky water off Massachusetts and be-
come certified to dive almost anywhere in 
the world. “Then you can dive the rest of 
your life in the blue, warm waters of the 
Caribbean, if that’s your style!” Livingston 
snorts. 


It isn’t just that: Livingston has done hun-
dreds of dives off the East Coast, where 
the waters hide centuries of sunken trad-
ing and naval vessels. He has explored 
shipwrecks both professionally and for 
personal interest, and emphasizes that 
he’s always “very respectful when I go 
down there. Some of those sites are also 
grave sites; there’s a lot of history out in 
the ocean.” He has, however, hauled up 
his share of sunken treasure. “I picked up 
some silver plates off the Bianca C,” he 
boasts, referring to a well-known wreck 
near the island of Grenada. 


Payne Whitney’s version of scuba train-
ing is less Pirates of the Caribbean and more 
YMCA. After dry training, we get ready 
to dive in a swimming pool, trooping to 
the trailer to retrieve a Buoyancy-Com-
pensator vest, a 16-pound weight belt, a 
wet suit, an octopus-like set of tubes with 
our breathing apparatus, and a bright 
yellow scuba tank. I stand at the edge of 
the Kiphuth Exhibition Pool, neon green 
ropes dangling over the rim, watching 
other pairs of divers kick to deeper water 
like shiny black frogs. I look to my buddy, 
a second-year School of Management stu-
dent named Rachel, before bending my 
knees, pressing my goggles to my face, 
and flipping head first into the water. 


Although the bottom of a swimming 
pool seems the least interesting place on 
Earth to explore, Kiphuth’s unnaturally 
blue water has the advantages of high 
visibility and of being close to open air. 


In the pool, we deflate our BC’s, allowing 
our weight-belts to drag us to the 
bottom. There, Livingston demonstrates 
an underwater skill and corrects us as we 
practice it in turn, trying to acclimate 
ourselves to our aquatic surroundings. We 
learn to clear a flooded mask of water and 
to retrieve our breathing regulators. We 
even remove our entire scuba tanks and 
then strap them back on. To prepare for 
a worst-case scenario, we practice buddy-
breathing, a skill no one will need un-
less someone’s “fool of a diving buddy is 
numbskull enough to screw up and not 
check his air,” Livingston grimaces. We 
laugh uneasily but know he harbors no 
illusions. His scoldings shock us into at-
tentiveness far quicker than the imagined 
dangers of open water. 


Learning to keep cool is a critical skill 
for a scuba diver and the primary goal 
of our Payne Whitney class. To receive 
certification, we must pass a written test 
and accomplish certain tasks in the open 
ocean to demonstrate comfort in the 
environment. Although he has taught 
diving at many universities, Livingston 
does not often have college students in his 
classes. “It’s usually the average Joe Blow 
off the street,” he says. Our own class 
includes Yale undergraduate and gradu-
ate students studying various disciplines, 
middle-aged locals, and even a high 
school student whose grandfather wanted 
a diving buddy. 


Having heard Livingston’s signal for at-
tention, we collect in an expectant circle 
around him. He makes a sudden frantic 
slashing movement across his neck. He 
rips his regulator from his mouth and 
bubbles stream from his lips like jelly-
fish shooting for the surface. Livingston’s 
wife kicks toward him, her pink flippers 
flashing through the water. Livingston 
grips her vest and grabs the cord of her 
regulator, allowing her to take one deep 
breath before pulling the regulator into 
his own mouth. He breathes freely twice 
and hands the regulator back to her. Put-
ting his own back into his mouth, he 
straightens up and points to me. I turn to 
my buddy and make the same motions, 
sharing air for two breaths at a time until 
we have a steady rhythm. 


As I drag myself out of the pool after 
three hours, I’m cold, tired, and only 
slightly traumatized. Sure, I’ve seen pho-
tos of sea anemones and brain-coral and 
parrot-fish, I’ve watched James Bond fight 
underwater battles with spear-guns. But 
what will happen when we’re tossed into 
the big blue for check-out dives in April? 
It can’t be that different from the bottom 
of a pool, I tell myself. Just more fish. 
- Marissa Grunes 


**Title: FLAGS TO RICHES**
**Author: Duncan Greenberg**
**Page number(s): 5**

FLAGS TO RICHES 
Anyone who has driven along the Gover-
nor John Davis Lodge Turnpike, the seg-
ment of I-95 that hugs the New Haven 
harbor for several miles before abruptly 
veering off toward Mystic, is sure to have 
spotted a row of trucks and vans with gau-
dy, spray-painted monikers like “Sweeney’s” 
and “Mixtapa.” The gritty entrepre-
neurs who own and operate these mobile 
lunch-counters have served the same burri-
tos and hot dogs to the same customers—
truckers en route to Providence or Bos-
ton—for years. But one vehicle stands out 
from the rest: a 1988 Chevy van decked 
with flags that flutter noisily in the coastal 
breeze. For years, this van has piqued the 
curiosity of school-bound Yale students 
and homeward-bound suburbanites with 
its array of banners and plastic signs reading 
“Flag Man” and “Since 1991.” Funky 
and vanilla-colored, the vehicle might well 
have had a past life as an ice-cream truck. 
Its peeling paint and growing sheen of 
rust, meanwhile, suggest that its current 
life is drawing to a close. 


Bill Shields, the owner of the van, has 
the rugged build of a former linebacker. 
His appearance is unkempt, his voice 
slightly dopey, but he is surprisingly elo-
quent on the subject of flags. For the last 
twenty years, he has eked out a living 
selling them out of the back of his van. 
On any given day he sells between five 
and twenty, emblazoned with patterns as 
diverse as the Red Sox 
insignia, the Star 
Spangled Banner, and the ever-popular 
skull and crossbones. The income he gen-
erates may be small by Wall Street stan-
dards, but it is sufficient for his needs. 


Selling flags used to be a part-time 
gig. For years, Shields worked at one of 
many American printing companies that 
went out of business in the early nineties. 
April 2008 
When he felt as if the entire industry were 
being shipped overseas in the late eigh-
ties, Shields, a self-proclaimed history buff, 
took to selling patriotic bumper stickers, 
license plates, and flags on the side. His 
first sale was an Irish tricolor at a flea 
market in Milford. To this day, the pat-
tern continues to be a top seller, thanks in 
large part to Saint Patrick’s Day. “It’s the 
Catholic countries,” he says, “who boast 
the most national pride. The country with 
the least, judging by its flag purchases, is 
France. 


In the mid-nineties, Shields severed 
ties with the commercial printing indus-
try and devoted himself full time to his 
tiny roadside business, which started 
to thrive once he discovered “Madison 
Avenue”—his nickname for the lot on 
Wharf Drive across from the New Haven 
Register headquarters. This location saves 
him money on advertising: people notice 
him when they pass on the highway 
and later return for all of their flag-flying 
needs. Over time, Shields has developed 
lucrative relationships with everyone from 
Boy Scouts to church members—people 
with big appetites for flags. He rewards 
loyal customers with discounts on pack-
age deals, retires old flags in accordance 
with Army protocol, and refuses to charge 
veterans even though it means losing out 
on a big chunk of business. 


And business is something he can’t af-
ford to lose—in the last five years, sales 
have plummeted a staggering 40 per-
cent. The internet was one thing, but 
now he has to contend with the likes of 
Target and Walmart, who stock whole 
aisles of flags in the days marching up to 
the Fourth of July. Unless business im-
proves, Shields will have to consider a 
change of career to make ends meet for 
his wife, Rose, and his four kids. “I was 
thinking, actually, about doing some PI 
work for insurance companies,” he vol-
unteers. 


If forced to give up his spot on the Av-
enue, it’s not the flags he’s going to miss—
or the money. “I’m like Jack Kerouac,” he 
says, referring to the fact that he trades in 
stories as much as he trades in flags. There’s 
the old Polish woman who rejected a flag 
he sold her because the manufacturer had 
omitted the tiny crown that caps the eagle 
in the inset coat of arms (“The Commu-
nists made us take off the crown!”). And 
the Cold War veteran whose job it was 
in the sixties and seventies to drop sonar 
buoys on Russian subs. This has been the 
privilege of Shields’ career: He has never 
had to roam the country, as Kerouac did, 
in search of material. The stories have al-
ways come to him. 
-Duncan Greenberg 


**Title: iBOOKWORM**
**Author: Kate Sefker**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

iBOOKWORM 
Anyone who has sat through a lecture be-
hind a classmate on Facebook—or been 
that classmate on Facebook—knows how 
utterly compelling the online adventures 
of a complete stranger can become, es-
pecially in the context of Psych 10. At-
tention shifts seamlessly from personality 
types to photos, from language acquisi-
tion to Scrabulous. But what gets lost in 
cyberspace when students are equally reli-
ant upon professors and Macbooks to get 
through a fifty-minute lecture? 


According to Professor Amy Hunger-
ford, who teaches a lecture course on the 
American novel, class should not be a pas-
sive experience like watching television. 
Rather, it should be a chance for students 
to learn how to “assimilate language” and 
follow a logical argument. “You can’t learn 
how to listen” while surfing the web or 
checking your email,” she insists. 


 Ostensibly, we attend Yale to learn 
from some of the world’s most renowned 
scholars and sit beside some of the most 
accomplished students in the country. But 
the classroom experience is more than the 
PowerPoints, more than the discussion 
sections, and more than the final exam. 


Professors strive for a lecture “experi-
ence,” not just a relay of information 
that students could obtain by copying a 
classmate’s notes. They desire the intan-
gible impact of sharing knowledge. Even 
professors who teach in lecture halls the 
size of cinemas like to imagine a conversa-
tion rather than a performance. “It’s not 
a recital,” explains Professor Haun Saussy, 
who teaches this semester’s World Poetry 
and Performance. “There’s a difference be-
tween transmitting information and actu-
ally raising questions.” 


When one person’s attention wanders, 
Professor Saussy can detect the entire class 
becoming distracted. “Everyone indirectly 
senses it,” he says, including professors. “I 
give better lectures when I feel more con-
nected to the class,” Hungerford explains. 
With the rise of laptop use in lecture, this 
connection wanes. 


Saussy strives to teach a riveting class 
by drawing upon his own inspiring class-
room experiences in graduate school. 
“When you teach, you really are laying 
down tracks of thought,” he says. He 
waits for a “flicker of enlightenment” 
in the faces of his students, gauging his 
effectiveness by their expressions. “I 
want people to be involved!” His concep-
tion of the classroom forum, “an ancient 
form of knowledge diffusion,” borders on 
the sacred. 


Professors and students at Yale pride 
themselves on mutual respect—they strive 
to foster a community of scholars rather 
than splitting a didactic divide. Professor 
Charles Hill is adamant about the strength 
of professor-student relationships at Yale. 
He cites a recent article in The Chronicle of 
Higher Education lamenting the growth in 
disciplinary exactitude in many colleges 
today; the article describes a growing pro-
liferation of syllabi that outline rules for 
class conduct. “There is a complete break-
down in relationships at these schools,” he 
explains. “But that is not the case here.” 


Hungerford and Saussy also acknowl-
edge a culture of mutual respect. They 
crave a method of harnessing a class’s 
attention without undermining this aca-
demic bond. “You don’t want to alienate 
students,” explains Hungerford. She says 
she knows that nobody means to dis-
respect her or spoil her lecture by using 
laptops in class, but the recent electronic 
garden springing up in her lecture hall 
was enough to spur action. “My strategy 
was to make a joke,” she says, stating the 
starting fact of a recent study on email 
addiction and focus that she shared with 
her American novel class: Those who fre-
quently check their inboxes register lower 
IQs during moments of weakness than 
their email-abstinent peers. 


Saussy recently made an online bid for 
students’ full class-time attention on his 
blog at Printculture.com. He wrote that 
he is a “reasonable human being with the 
power to issue Fs, yes, so as you value your 
résumé, treat me with the care due a crazy 
dictator who might have his hand on the 
hot button.” In person, however, Saussy 
cheerfully acknowledges and understands 
how compelling email and online distrac-
tions can be. “I’ve done it myself,” he 
admits. Sometimes he notices when stu-
dents “are smiling to themselves because 
they’ve just gotten some email from their 
beloved. But I just want to say, ‘We’re here 
to read Shakespeare, darn it!’” 
-Kate Sefker 


**Title: HANDYMAN**
**Author:  [Author not specified]**
**Page number(s): 6**

HANDYMAN 
Dwight Godwin is a few decades older 
than the 120 freshmen in Directed 
Studies this year, but he still keeps the 
philosophy syllabus, from Aristotle to 
Wittgenstein, sitting on his bookshelf. 


Godwin is a professional American 
Sign Language (ASL) interpreter at Yale, 
whose clients include a DS student, and 
he takes his responsibility seriously—he 
has ingested everything from poetry to 
graduate-level particle physics. “I read all 
of the same books that the students read,” 
Godwin says. This reading is part of a 
demanding, self-imposed regimen that 
extends from 5:30 a.m. until 11 p.m., 
and is split between Yale and a handful of 
other Connecticut universities. 


Godwin speaks with enthusiasm, 
gesturing frequently and fingerspelling 
acronyms for emphasis. He forms his sen-
tences with precision and carefully modu-
lates his pace to suit his listener. Along 
with five other regular and independent 
sign language interpreters and four others 
who assist less frequently, Godwin forms 
an integral part of the services offered to 
the six deaf and hard-of-hearing students 
at Yale. The interpreters work in teams of 
two, providing support for the same class-
es all semester. For large lectures, Yale of-
fers the more high-tech Computer Aided 
Real-Time Transcription (CART) system, 
where stenographers provide what Judy 
York, director of the Resource Office on 
Disabilities, calls “closed captioning for 
the classroom.” 


Freshman Ariel Baker-Gibbs, who uses 
interpreters for all four of her seminar-
style classes, deems Yale’s system “pretty 
good.” She emphasizes the importance of 
skilled interpreters, explaining that “the 
information is at the discretion of the 
interpreter;” when they make mistakes, 
her own educational experience suffers. 


Godwin recognizes his obligation to his 
clients, describing the pressure of being 
“responsible for providing such an accu-
rate translation that the students have full 
and equal access to the information.” 


Part of the problem is that sign lan-
guage is a uniquely challenging means of 
communication. According to Godwin, 
many people don’t realize that “ASL is its 
own language. It has syntax, it has rules.” 
Many interpreters use a combination of 
ASL and other forms of sign that more 
closely mimic English syntax. Godwin 
employs both techniques, engaging in 
“constant negotiation with the deaf per-
son to make sure semantic intent is being 
realized.” 


Standards of conduct have vastly im-
proved in the relatively young profession 



**Interpreters at Yale**
**Author: Sarah Winsberg**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• ·of sign languag~ int~rpr~ting, Godwin 
not~. At on~ time, rh~ majority of inter-
pr~ers were unpaid friends and relatives 
_ .of deaf people, and they often rook a pa-
ternalistic approach ro interpreting. trans-
lating only what they thought the deaf 
person might want to hear. In the past 
thirty years. however, national organiza-
tions, training programs, and certification 
t~ts have created standards for profes-
sional interpreting, as well as injury pre-
venrion recomm~ndarions. Godwin now 
performs a ~ries of hand exerci:>es before 
every se~ion to avoid repeririv~ motion 
injury, a condition that affects as many as 
87o/o of peopl~ in the .field. 

Baker-Gibbs found interpreting ser-
vices at Yale to b~ much better than those 
at most other colleges she considered, 
and far better than those of her Canadian 
public high school. The biggest problem 
she encounters is when, due ro last-min-
ute scheduling problems, no interpreter is 
• able ro show up ro one of her classes. She 
describes these days as ~difficult," and says 
that without the abiliry ro get notes from 
ocher stud~nr~, she'd be lost. York shares 
Baker-Gibbs' concern, calling such situa-
tions "my biggest regret" and expressing a 
desire to "look at different wap to make 
sure that spot is always filled." 

For Yale's deaf students, sign language 
interpreting services cannot be successful 
without the cooperation of professors. 
Baker-Gibbs. Godwin, and York agree 
that, for the most part, professors are sen-
sitive to deaf students' needs. The most 
understanding professors might include 
interpreters on class panlisrs, let them 
know in advance what material the class 
will cover, and pay attention ro the visual 
s~up of the classroom. 

Godwin views part of his job as edu-
cating hearing students on how to accom-
modate their deaf peers by, for example, 
always addressing the student rather than 
the interpreter. 

"Deafness is an invisible disability," 
Godwin ob~erves. "They don't have white 
canes. they don't have dogs." He's always 
~r to interpret at non-academic events 
like master's teas and housing meetings 
beca~ thoc ap~ces broaden stu-
dents' exposure ro inrerpredng. "Only by 
seeing deaf people in different venues," he 
says ... do people become aware that there 
are deaf people around them." 

April2008 
According ro Baker-Gibbs, most stu-
dents love watching the interpreters. "It's 
cool. It's like someone walking up to you 
and saying, 'How do you speak French? 
It's so beautiful.' It's really nice.·· She paus· 
es a few seconds. "Also a little bit n.1·ive." 


**Artist Lofts West**
**Author: Aaron Wiener**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

ART PROJECTS 
Under the steady gaze of West Rock, 
six buildings stand as a rare lifeline for 
struggling artists in an evolving city. Art-
ist Lofts West, better known as ArLoW, 
is a six million dollar enterprise in New 
Haven's Westville neighborhood that pro-
vides affordable living and working space 
for artists of all kinds. The complex cur-
rently hous~ 16 r~ident artists as well as 
a number of independent busine~,es. and 
it cominu~ to expand. 

In 1996, art organizer Thea Buxbaum 
and her husband, sculptor Gar Water-
man. bought a tiny. dilapidated ware-
ho~ from the City for one dollar (the 
City's alternative, demolishing the build-
ing, could have cost $30.000). Buxbaum 
and Waterman converted the warehouse 
into a set of impressh·ely modern apart· 
ments and studios. Inspired by this sue-
c~sful renovation and sympathetic to the 
obstacles young arrists face, the couple 
began exploring ways to assist w~rville's 
arrisric community. On the advice of a 
tenant's development consultant mother, 
Buxbaum and her husband purchased five 
more buildings in the area and set ro work 
on renovations. 

E.1ch renovated building has a similar 
layout: a first Roor occupied by a small 
business or art space, such as a tennis 
shop. a clothing score, or a pottery-paint-
ing workshop for children. The artists 
chemselve~ live above th~e business~. 
Along with a few painters, their eclectic 
ranks include an opera singer, an upright 
bassist, a Rautist, and a tenant Buxbaum 
calls a "renaissance man," who paints, 
writes, sings, photographs, and plays sev-
eral insrrumenrs. 

Buxbaum seeks grants from the City, 
Stare, and private sourc~ ro keep her hous-
ing units affordable. Prospective tenants 
must earn below 50, 60, or 80 percent of 
the neighborhood median, depending on 
the unit, in order to rent an apartment in 
ArLoW People are nor forced out if their 
income incr~s. however. "We wanted 
to have unit~ where people could never be 
displaced," she explains. 

In addition ro cultivating a commu-
nity arcs scene, Buxbaum is committed to 
maintaining her neighborhood's eclectic 
character. Westville is as quirky as Bux-
baum her.self-a woman who has never 
cut her three-year-old son's hair, crafting 
a rebellious look that would make Keith 
Richards blush-and she aims to keep ir 
that way. One of her motivations for buy-
ing up abandoned storefronts was to pre-
vent large chains like Dunkin' Donuts and 
CYS from moving in. She discriminates 
carefully when deciding which business~ 
to allow into her properri~. and the r~ult 
is the perpetuation of the neighborhood's 
amy reputation. 

Economically. w~rville is a particu-
larly diverse neighborhood. According to 
Buxbaum, the portion that li~ south of 
\X'halley Avenue has the high~t average 
income of any area of ~ew Hayen, while 
the northern half has the lowest. Bux-
baum, who~e renovated studio and ho~ 
is .situated on the troubled northern side. 
remembe~ the sense of danger that per-
meated the area when she first moved in. 
"Mothers wouldn't even let their children 


--- Page 8 ---

8 
Interested in going abroad?.~~~~-
play in the streets," she describes. One of 
her goals is to bridge the gap between the 
t\vo disparate halves of the neighborhood, 
and ArLo \Y./, with buildings on both sides 
of the proverbial tracks, helps accomplish 
this objective. 

Buxbaum's tenants are enthusiastic 
about their living situations. Jonny Rodg-
ers, a guitarist and vocalist for the band 
,\1ighty Purple, shares a Bar with his wife 
Desirca. He lists the advantages of living 
in ArLoW: "I can play very loud music 
and no one complains; room for a laundry 
machine, a dishwasher, heat in the winter! 
\Y./e love all of these!" Bassist Adam Kubo-
ta is equally appreciative of the low rent 
and high tolerance for late-night music. 

Crowning the list of advantages is the 
ease and frequency of collaborative proj-
ects among ArLo \Y./ residents. Kubota 
has jammed and performed with Rodg-
ers. Two other residents, John Bent and 
]emma Williams, run a gallery out of their 
apartment, and Kubota provides musical 
accompaniment at their art shows. Re-
ccndv, on a cold winter's day, Rodgers 
sipp;d a steaming cup of tea under a glass 
dome as part of a photography project. 
Pas~ersby were puzzled, yet many were 
undoubtedly reassured by the reminder of 
Westville's abiding quirkiness. 


**SNAPSHOT**
**Author:  (Not specified)**
**Page number(s): 9**

SNAPSHOT 
I PICTUM THt. YANK£.1! DOODLE COFFEF. 
and Sandwich Shop as a predictably ador-
able American diner-it is warm inside. 
the coffee is oily, and a man in a paper 
sailor hat keep~ refilling my cup. lhere 
are sticky leather sears and a chrome-lined 
counter and stains on the cook's white 
apron. I eat French toast and drink choc-
olate milkstukes. There is m~ic playing, 
and the background noise~ of a baseball 
game on the tdevuion. When I come in 
after class, the cook says, •Hey there, Ra-
chel! How're your studi~?· In my imagi-
nation, I am a regular. 

I have never been to the Yankee Doo-
dle Diner and I gu~ I never will. I have 
passed it hundreds of tim~. The last time 
I walked by, rhe mrauram's windows 
were covered from the inside: with light 
blue paper. 

No one could claim its greasy food was 
good for the heart, but many believed it 
to be good for the soul. The Doodle was 
the sort of place that people loved to love, 
and it has become: the sort of place that 
people love to save:. 

Some Yale students treated a visit to irs 
counren like a uip to a shrine or a temple. 
"Though I didn't go a lot, when I did I al-
ways was glad of it and told mysc:lfl ought 
to go more,~ says sophomore: Joshua Sil-
vc:mein, c:xpr~ing the sort of guilt often 
felt by the sporadically religious. Like a 
sacred ritual. the Doodle rep~nted a tie 
to the past. "It was so old school: says 
ilvc:rstein. ~Pretty much the definition of 
old school." 

It seems that everyone ha~ a Doodle 
story. "lbe fim time was the best," recalls 
Senior Ted Gordon. •My friends and I. 
fr~hman year, after pulling an all-nighter, 
vowed to eat breakfast at the Doodle as it 
opened ar 5:30 or six in the morning. We 
walked over in the cold and ordered." 

Ochers spin tales of glurtonous pride. 
On ~ebruary 15. 1999, William Storbier-
ski, who liv~ in the Nc:w Haven area, ate 
25 hamburger~ at the Doodle counter. 
earning a plaque on the resrauranr's \valls. 
When another man beat his record ~everal 
months later, Storbierski went back to the 
Doodle to reclaim hi.!. title. 

Bur memorable and C\en periodic 
visits to the Doodle do nm a regular 
make. Joe Gerhard, a NC\V Ha' en resi-
dent since 1984 and a frc.quenr fiddler at 
Ann2 Liffey's, ~timates rhat he's eaten at 
the Doodle between one and two hun-
dred rimes but claims that "if you do the 
math, you'll see that number still v.ouldn't 
be often enough to qualify me as one of 
the regulars." 

9 



**Title: Questions and Answers with Dr. Ruth Westheimer**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
f1Atj DAVENPORT COLLEGE 
w 
MASTE.R'STEA 
Monday, April 21st, 2008 
4pm 
Davtnpon Co11tge 
Common Room 
248 York Street 
~estions and Answers 
with 
DR. RUTH 
WESTHEIMER 
Dr. Ruth Westhcimer i,. a 
psychosexual rherapist who helped 
pioneer rhe ftcld of media 
M chology and srread what she 
has labeled "sexual literacy." She 
has rwice heen rutnterl "'College 
Lecturer of the Year."' Dr. Ruth is 
current!)• reaching in Davenpon 
with Pro~oror Rabbi jim Ponct. 
Ha11e a question? 
A11 ammyrtJOIIS box will be in the 
Dar101port 
Masters Office. 


**Title: The Yale-ification of York Square**
**Author: Sarah Engel**

Dan Jeanerte, a New Haven native, ace 
at the Doodle ac lease once a week dur-
ing his four years of high school. He sees 
the coffee shop's closing as part of the 
ongoing transformation of York Square. 
"Yale seems to be striving to create more 
of a 'college rown' feel where shops stay 
open later and the general vibe is geared 
towards the college clientele," he nores. 
Although Jeanette recognizes the benefits 
ofYale-sponsored urban development, he 
also points out that "some of this change 
has been ro the detriment of long-stand-
ing businesses. Barrie Ltd. Shoes, York 
Square Cinemas, and now the Doodle 
have all closed down." While new busi-
nesses like J. Crew and Au Bon Pain may 
have revitalized the area, they "don't have 
any history behind them." 
"Jm not as good as I 
used to be, "says the re-
tired competitive eater. 
"My time has passed. " 
NOT ALL LOCALS ARJ! SENTIMENTAL ABOlTf 
the Doodle's closing. Storbierski has only 
casually followed the story in the Ntw 
Havrn &gisttr and he doesn't intend to 
become involved in the cause to "Save the 
Doodle!" "I'm working two jobs and re-
ally don't have the spare time to try and 
help out," he says. 
According to Paul Cuticcllo, the owner 
of Paul Richards, an old-timey neighbor-
ing shoe store, local Doodle activists are 
less prominent than Yale-affiliated ones. 
Even some Yalies who never set foot in the 
Doodle are rallying behind the little diner. 
Sophomore Marissa Grunes, who never 
ate at the Doodle, is nonetheless a member 
of the "Save the Doodle" Facebook group. 
Another group member, sophomore Brit-
tany Golob, articulates what artracts her 
to the diner's cause: "Traditions like cups 
and hanging out at Naples or Yorks ide or 
Yankee Doodle speak of ... what we do 
now that connects us to Yale's past." 
Perhaps students who are up in arms 
about the fall of a shoebox restaurant 
whose threshold they never crossed are 
simply appropriating another tradition 
that does not belong to them, just as 
Yale's 1920s architects appropriated Cam-
bridge's spires and gothic rowers. Even 
students who claim ro reject Ivy League 
• 
elitism nostalgically embrace Yale's ma-
terial tradition. For these srudents, rhe 
Doodle represents a New Haven before · c 
cheap Chinese food or Srarbucks. It stands 
for a time when twelve sears were enough 
and when trans fats didn't have a name. 
It sirs around rhe corner from J.Press, an-
other bastion of "Old Yale" nostalgia, but 
it seems that no number of oxford shirrs, 
cufflinks, milkshakes, or cheeseburgers 
will bring back the good old days. 
But perhaps the good old days-or our 
imagined version of them-are not worth 
preserving. After all, the idealization of 
"Old Yale" that the Doodle can inspire is 
not unproblematic. Grunes imagines the 
diner of yesteryear as "the classless little 
place that classy people would patronize, 
where the proprietor is behind the coun-
ter, and you know his name and he knows 
yours ... and then of course you leave and 
become a high-power Yale man and remi-
nisce fondly, but that's pretty much the 
end of the love story." 


SO, WHY SAVE TiiE DOODLE? MAYBE STO-
bierski's thoughts on his own career ap-
ply to the outdated diner as well. "I'm not 
as good as I used to be," says the retired 
competitive eater, whose second record 
was surpassed in 2003. "My time has 
passed." 
Still, maybe we want to save a vision 
of ourselves as old-time, scholarly Elis 
immune to grease and gentrification. 
As one terribly literary hyGate blogger 
wrote, mourning rhe los_~ of the Doodle 
Ivy-wide, ~I can totally imagine Franny or 
Seymour hanging our there!" 
TNJ 
&uhrl Eng!n- u a sophomorr m Ezra Stiks Col-
kgr. 
THE NEW JOURNAL 


**Title: Espresso Self**
**Author: Laura Yulo**
**Page number(s): 11-12**

PROFILE 
ESPRESSO SELF 
Formerly homeless artist finds his fix at Starbucks. 
THERE ARE HUSDRFDS OF PENS A."D PES• 
cils spread our on the table in from of 
Isaac Canady. "fhcy are a p.Hndc of pl.mk. 
of thin mip~ of color; orne nre metallic. 
and many look like they'w seen bcuer 
days. He stores them all in a large, bat· 
tered Ziploc bag. 
These arc his tools, collected carefully 
and pamstakingly through the }ears, 
through homelessness and starvation, 
mental illness and hospitalization. He 
calls them tools because it is through 
them that he earns an income, unsteady 
as it may be. It is because of them that he 
has food to eat and a place to sleep. \'( ath 
these pens and pencils, he's bu1lt himself 
a home. 
s.~ac's work lines the windows of the 
Smbu~.:ks on the corner of Chapel and 
1-ligh street~. Simply rendered-~tlmost 
primitive in form--the colorful draY. ings 
Aprill008 
pique the interest of passersby. hue, a 
regular fixture at a corner table inside rhc 
~tore, is himself a curious sight, his long. 
thin body bent over his work as sunlight 
streams in around him, his fingers fUri-
ously dotting at the paper. His cheeks are 
sunken and his gaze is incense, focused. 
His clothes are drab but clean. He b com-
pletely, utterly engros~ed in hb \\Ork. 
Isaac is 48 years old, but he started 
drawing just 15 years ago. He was in the 
hospital at the time-"1 had a lot of •.. is-
sues," he says evash·ely, "a lot of anger and 
rescmmcnr." Later, he clarifies: "I ha'e 
a very abusive history-~exually, physi-
cally, emotionally. Ar the time, my mental 
health was falling to piece..,, my marriage 
was falling to pieces. I had quit m} JOb 
because I was so sick." He and his wtfe 
owned a farmhouse on 99 aero ofland in 
Oxford, Connecticut, bur a fey, years af-
rer quming h1~ job he lo~t everything. His 
job, incidentally, was with the Connecti-
cut Department of Merna I Health. "I was 
in just a~ had a predicament as the people 
I w,ts trt.';lting." hc s.tys, his hands tented 
.uound his mouth. So he had checked 
himsdfin. lor four month,, he had noth-
ing but paper and a few penc1ls to rel1eve 
his boredom. 

THAT DRAWl G CAMP 
ATURALLY TO i'MC 
was both expected and unexpected. He'd 
been invohed m the am since he was just 
a bo), but almost exclushel) m the per· 
fomting am. He had started with piano, 
then mO\ed on to sax, X} lophone, and 
dance. But doodlmg during his hospital 
stay, Isaac found hiS passion. 
.Sketchmg was also .t \\"a) to channel 
and etlm has .tnger. "I pra)ed to my hagh-
er power to help me wnh my issues, and 


little did I know he'd help me through my 
artisdc abiliry. When I started doodling 
that's exactly how the healing process rook 
place," he sap. His art is abstract and or-
ganic, and wrought with symbolism: He 
uses pear-like shapes to represent women, 
roots for history and ancestry, and colors, 
lots of colors, to show the interconnect· 
ednos of people. "My work is nor about 
blacks, it's about all cultures. All of us have 
the same issues, the same problems." 
Being able to safely express his emo-
tions is therapeutic, bur his art is also an 
exercise in sdf-rt.':itrainr. ~I do pointil-
lism-my an form is pointillism-and 
irs an an form rhar rakes a lor of patience. 
And if you Y.ork hard at it, it dn"elops 
patience." Pointillism is a term he learned 
while homebs and drawing on the New 
Haven Green. "This woman came by 
one day and said, 'You don't know what 
you're doing, do you?' And I'm like, I'm 
doing an! And she's like, 'Yeah, but do 
you know what art form you're doing?' 
And I 'aid no. And she said. Tm going 
to \Hite down a couple of thing; for you. 
You look it up. I'll be by here again. you 
let me know what art form it is.' And she 
wrote down Seurat, and a couple of other 
pointillists. Sure enough, I ran into her 
about a month later, and she said, 'Did 
you find out?' And I said, 'Yes, ir's pointil-
lism. Seurar is amazing.' And he is!" 
Isaac doesn't talk much about his four-
year stint of homdessness. "I don't want 
to say too much abour it. Homelessness 
Y.':l.S .. . an inconvenience. It was frighten· 
ing. bcc:ausc people view you as separate 
from <ocien•. Ir W:tl sad at times--but I 


can't say it was the most unhappiest time 
of my life. You know why? Because I'm 
so creative, I adapt to situations, I refuse 
to be miserable." He carried his pens with 
him in a backpack everywhere he went, 
usually drawing on the Green, or in Star-
bucks if it was raining. 
Six years ago, Srarbucks' then-manager 
Rick Ford noticed how Isaac's drawings 
drew people into the store. "I told him 
he could sit here and do his work, if he 
promised to get his act together. And he 
did," Ford said. 
Today, he has an apartment in West-
ville that he pays for by selling his draw-
ings, and he's thinking about going back 
to school. Maybe college, maybe art class-
es. He's also considering finding another 
day job, although that possibility, he says, 
"scares the shit out of me." In the old days, 
he was in Starbucks the minute it opened 
because he had nowhere else to be, but 
now he goes to museums every day, hangs 
out in other coffee shops (he particularly 
likes Koffee on Audubon), watche~ sci-
ence fiction movies-and isn't kicked out 
of a shelter at five in the morning. 
'1 thank God that I 
have the stick-to-it-ive-
ness and the zeal and 
all that to keep going 
regardless of the money, " 
he says. 
His daughter, Chiara Ocean Canady-
just a baby when Isaac was in the hos-
piral-goes to school at the Educational 
Center for the Arts and drops by Star-
buck.~ to visit him on her way home. She 
has long. curly black hair and a light, tan 
complexion-her mother is Italian-and 
though she moves with the shy awkward-
ness of a 15-vear-old, she exudes self-con-
fidence. "She's so focused she scares me, 
I'm just waiting for all hell to break loose," 
Isaac says proudly. "We talk a lot about 
how she can do whatever she wants, and 
doesn't need a man for anything." 
IN A WAY, ISAAC CHOSE TO BE POOR-
chose, even. to be homeless. He recog-
niu:d that he wasn't happy" ith "here he 
was in life and made a drastic decision co 
effect a change. Now, his art has begun 
to gain him recognition within the local 
community. He has sold drawings for as 
much as five hundred dollars and says 
that, because of the diversity of the people • 
who congregate around Yale, his work 
has disseminated to countries all over the 
world. 
But those sales are few and far between, 
and his prosperity is more psychological 
than financial. Still, though life is hard as 
a struggling artist-"! say struggling, not 
srarving, although that's part of it"- he's 
happy. "If I die today, I'm proud of what 
I've accomplished. I thank God that I have 
the stick-to-it-iveness and the zeal and all 
that to keep going regardless of the mon-
ey," he says. "I truly believe that I will be 
a recognized artist one day, probably after 
I die. But I'm going to try co beat that, 
I'm going to try to do it while I'm living." 
Digging his fingers into the pile before 
him, the plastic pens gently clicking in his 
hands, Isaac says. "I may be poor, but my 
work doesn't have to look poor." 
No longer collecting old pens off the 
street, he has added a few more expensive 
cools to his collection-India ink, some 
felt-tipped markers. But he still relies on 
his grimy ballpoints and gel pens and 
highlighters, because they are what he's 
used to, because he knows how co wield 
them well, because he's not the type to 
forget where he came from. 
lNJ 
:.:zu,a Ya, . a 1unwr m ]cmsthan Edwtlrrls Co~. 
u tht ~arrh dirmoro[fNJ. 

**Title: SNAPSHOT**
**Author: Miranda Popkey**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
College women across the nation protested a hike in the price of birth control prescribed through university health centers.


BILLS, BILLS, PILLS
Birth control prices get knocked up.

ON OCTOBER 18, 2007, THE OFFICE PHONES of Senator Christopher Dodd and US Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro started ringing off the hook. Yale students, upset at a sudden and dramatic increase in the price of birth control prescribed through Yale University Health Services were calling their Democratic representatives to protest. The 2005 Deficit Reduction Act (DRA), a law originally aimed at curbing Medicaid fraud, had simultaneously ended a long-standing tradition whereby pharmaceutical companies sold birth control to university health centers at deeply discounted prices. The arrangement had allowed schools to provide prescriptions to their students for as low as four or five dollars a month, but recently, prices have jumped to as high as fifty dollars. Participants in a phone-in organized by the Reproductive Rights Action League at Yale (RALY), the students calling in their complaints--every minute, for hours--had a simple demand: fix it.

The group's co-chair, sophomore Alice Buttrick, believes that the price hike was a legislative oversight. Susan Yolen, vice president of public affairs for Planned Parenthood, agrees. "It's not our impression that this was intentional," Yolen says, adding that Planned Parenthood is currently involved in lobbying efforts to reverse the bill's unforeseen consequences.

Yet more than a year after the DRA was enacted and six months after RALY's well-attended phone-a-thon, many Yale women are still paying ten times more for their birth control than they were before the law went into effect. Despite both public apologies from legislators who support reproductive rights and the recent proposal of a bill that would allow universities once again to receive discounted drugs, the issue has taken the backburner to the war in Iraq, the presidential election, and a looming economic recession.

The question is not whether well-organized nationwide opposition will eventually win the law's repeal through a war of bureaucratic attrition, nor whether Yale women can bear the brunt of the price increases. The question is whether, while lobbyists prod Congress to get around to correcting its blunder, the victims--low income women at universities across the country--can stand to wait.

Few people, even those directly involved in fighting the legislative snafu, understand exactly why prices for prescription birth control have suddenly skyrocketed. Both Yolen and Buttrick are fuzzy on the specifics, given the length, scope, jargon, and acronym-heavy language of the DRA.

Peter Steere, associate director of Yale University Health Services, offers a clearer explanation: Federal law mandates that Medicaid programs receive drug manufacturers' "best price" for prescription drugs. Prior to the law's passage, campus clinics and other "safety-net" health care providers were excluded from the "best price" calculus so that manufacturers could sell discounted pills to universities without also having to lower Medicaid prices.

The DRA closed this loophole for university clinics, while many other low-cost providers--such as Planned Parenthood and some community health centers--remained unaffected. In the New Haven area, low-income and uninsured women can still receive discounted birth control at the Fair Haven Community Health Center, the Hill Health Center, the Haven Free Clinic, and, of course, Planned Parenthood. But when it came to universities like Yale, pharmaceutical companies were faced with a choice: Continue selling discounted prescription birth control drugs to student centers and see their profits plummet, or raise prices. They chose to raise prices.


The confusion surrounding the act has bred resentment and led some students to suspect that the DRA's consequences were entirely by design. Though Buttrick is certain that the law was an "accident" and Yolen concurs that "it's not our impression that this was intentional," at the Yale Women's Center, talk of the price hike among board members past and present quickly snowballs into a broader discussion of the Bush administration's assault on the rights of women, especially poor women.

Steere observes that students have not been complaining as loudly or frequently as some might have thought.

Isabel Polon, the women center's political action coordinator, has her doubts about labeling the price increase an innocent oversight. "Whether it was an oversight, or whether it was intentional," she says, "Congress in general doesn't have women's rights as a priority. We know where the administration stands on these issues."

Chase Olivarius-McAllister, who served as political action coordinator last semester, is even more explicit. "It's about breaking the backs of poor women. The legacy of this administration is going to be that they made poor women's lives awful on every front."

For these activists, the passage of the DRA, coupled with Congress' failure to enact any timely corrective legislation, is not an isolated incident; it is indicative both of the Bush Administration's hostility towards women's rights and a general, nation-wide complacency. "This is not seen as a necessary health service that women are entitled to," Presca Ahn, a coordinator at the Women's Center, adds. "[Congressmen] don't want to talk about it until they get a call every second from Yale University students."

DESPITE THE HIGH TURNOUT AT THE RALY phone-a-thon, it's unclear how many Yale students have been tangibly affected by the act. While Steere has noticed that many women now buy their birth control one month at a time (instead of stocking up on four cycles), he hasn't seen an overall drop in the numbers of contraceptive prescriptions. Although a Yale College Council committee has been exploring the issue, and Steere has heard "the occasional expression of frustration," he observes that students have not been complaining "as loudly or frequently as some might have thought."

Polon attributes a lack of student response to the university's socio-economic demographics. "On other university campuses there has been an uproar," she explains. "Twenty dollars isn't going to make a world of difference to the average Yale student, but that's not the case in the country in general."

Meanwhile, on campuses across the nation where the average student is far less well-off, student groups have held widely-attended rallies and protests. And while it may be easy to assume that the average Yale student won't have a problem paying an extra forty dollars a month, Yolen notes that "it's one thing if you've got parents who will willingly cover this cost, and it's another thing if you're a scholarship student."

Even those whose parents can afford to absorb the price hike have an uncomfortable conversation ahead of them. "I'd probably have difficulty confronting my parents if I said I needed to go on birth control and I needed this money," says Ahn. "I can't afford it with the money I make for myself." The assumption that the DRA has not affected Yale women also ignores the thousands of Yale staffers who are served by the Yale Health Plan.

"This is not an abstract group of people you're helping out of the goodness of your heart," Buttrick emphasizes. "You have to do this to help yourself." Unfortunately, whether or not Yale students want to help themselves--whether or not they even need help--there's little they can do. Except, of course, wait.


**Title: PROFILE CURL TALK**
**Author: Laura Zax**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Hairdresser cuts hair and pulls legs. 
By LauraZax 
DICKIE M'D I ARJ! FLIPPJ:-;G THROUGH A." 
old edition of Playboy when his next cus-
tomer comes in. I stan with embarrass-
ment as the door to Dickie's second floor 
atdier opens. but he continue~ poring 
over the pornography. He turns a glossy 
page with his right hand while bc:ckoning 
with the other to the middle-aged \\"Oman 
arriving for a rrim. 
"Take a seat over ht:re and Nancy will 
give you a wash," he sap, and in the same 
breath a:.ks me to guess the identity of one 
panicularly buxom bunny. Though I'm 
usually prepared for pop quazzcs, this isn't 
really my subject. 
"That's Pamela Anderson, right there, 
before she had any work done. What a 
natural beauty." He rutfles through a cou-
ple more pages of the 1995 issue, which 
features an Ivy League ~pread showing 
off ~exy Yale girls posing provOCltively on 
Cross Campus. He arrhes at his destina· 
cion and points to a brunette on a love 
seat. "She's a former client!" 

DICKU, WHOSE REAL SAME IS CAETANO 
Ferriuolo, is the owner of The Workshop, 
a small, second-story hair salon on Cha-
pel !'itrttt couched bernren Book Trader 
Cafe and Thai Pan Asian. 'I he New Haven 
native anJ former hippie is an expert in 
curls. 

Young Dickie shm\ed no signs of be-
ing a fUture hair parlor prodigy. He 
didn't cut his ~iblings' hair, nor did he 
style hb stuffed animals. He did, however, 
grow up with severe dyslexia-a disorder 
he credits for his skilled hands. "It's like 
being blind-you can hear bener. I used 
v.hat I had," says Dickie, \\ho preferred 
ro gct thrown out of class rather than 
rc:otd aloud. 

Though Dickie now ~ms a natural-. 
born stylist, he didn't choose his calling. 
Rather, a juvenile court did, after Dickie 
dropped out of high school with several 
friends to become a bookie. "We were 
any mother's dream," he jokes. He took 
bets on local sporting events until he ·was 
17, when he was arrested for bookmak· 
ing. The p.uh to curl connoisseurship was 
born in court. "You have to tell the judge 
you're doing something with your life. So 
my la\W}'er said, 'Tell them you're going to 
go to barber college,' and the judge actu· 
ally made me go." 

After receiving his barber's license, 
Dickie went straight ro work. His "hands 
of gold," as he refers to them, were an im-
mediate success. Dickie had clients lin-
ing up outside his shop waiting for their 
rurn in the hot seat before he was old 
enough to buy the PlAyboy whose bunnies 
he would one day style. "I was a tender 
young boy-just the kind you like," the 
tirelessly bawdy Dickie says, giving my 
knee a playfUl tap. 

As Dickie's body matured, so did his 
professional interests. "All the pretty 
girls were going to hairdre~r school, so 
I decided to go to hairdresser school," he 
tells me. After graduation, his career sky-
rocketed. He went from trimming New 
Haven's most coveted coiffeur's hair to 
working at his salon. Soon he was in New 
York City. employed by a Fifth Avenue 
salon-a place so stylish that all of its em-
ployees had stage names. Dickie went by 
:...iister Dick. 

Dickie had clients lin-
ing up outside his 
shop before he was old 
enough to buy the Play-
boy whose bunnies he 
would one day style. 

SOOS IT WAS THE SIXTIES. "I ENDED UP 
with some genius non-conformists," says 
Dickie, who later found himself hanging 
'"'ith a Studio 54 crowd. One of the in· 
novators with whom Dickie worked was 
Paul Mirchdl, whose brand is still king 
u upscale hair salons. "We were the first 
ones to reallv cut hair," he declares. 

THE ::-\EW JOUR.~AL 


,. 
'ttl E. PHONE RINCS. "rH l!> IS VANNA Will iE 
looking for me," he jokes before answer-
ing. "She thinks I'm a slut. Shc'.s right!" 
Though a srylist who an handle unruly 
curls is a uuc: gern, Dickie is a jewd .still 
rarer: A professional .,., irh a personality. 
"I've never been known not to ha\'e per-
sonality," he: Sd}'$ proudly. In the face of 
cold and impersonal mnd:uds of profes-
sionalism, Dickie: shares as much as he: 
hcar1>. I knew more about his lo~e life by 
the end of my fir.st visit to his studio than 
my freshman yor roomm:ue knew about 
mine: when we moved out in May. As 
he chats through extended w rl sessions, 
it bewmc< dor that Dilkie'~ notions of 
time and money vc:c:r from the: norm. "I'm 
not trying to make any money. I don't 
need to make any money. I'm Join' thi) 
for fun," he ,,tys. Still, despite all of thc~e 
quirk\, he: i~. and by hb OY.n ac~ount, 
alway~ has been, a remotrkably successful 
hairdrc:s~c:r. "lhcy \loere banging down the: 
• door," Dickie: boastS of the clientele he 
drew even as a barber fresh out of \OCl· 
tiona! .school. While businessmen around 
him worry about an economic m:ession, 
D1ckie, who works Just thrc:c: cbys a wc:c:k 
in hrs own salon, has the leisure to worry 
about a m:ession of passion. 

"PA\!>JON IS F'AWNG BY TilE 'I); A' IUE.- fiE 
sa}'$ in a rare moment of despondency. 
"'lhe young people in all the am arc los-
ing passion-passion to write, ~ssion to 
nuke an, passion to cut hair." But Drckie 
ha' faith in todJy'.s Yal<' students. "You\oc 
got a good group now: he says. "Let'~ 
write; let's 'ing; let's do .sculpture; let' cut 
h.1ir. It's coming bJ, k." Dickie's p.LS.,ion 
is un.tduhc:r;ucd. 'lhc: intentions of this 
hairstylist, whose life's onlr paradOJI is the: 
irony of a baldmg m:an with a specialty in 
thick hair, lire refreshingly uncomphcn-
c:d. With the seriousness of 11 young boy 
asscning that he wants to~ lin ~tronaut. 
he S2}'S, •Alii ¥.-anna do is cut hair." 

TNJ 
Lzu,.. Z4r. 4 sqphomD" 111 SJ/mum Co~. u 11 
11'11Vl4Jl"K alwr qjTN J 
April2008


**Title: SNAPSHOT TOWN BICYCLE**
**Author: Mai Zing**
**Page number(s): 18**

Bike Collective offers Fair Haveners a free ride. 
CHRIS SHIRLEY IS ORli!RMI~ED TO rEACII 
me how to ride a bike. A friendly Daven-
port sophomore who sport' a black runic-
neck over a pair of tight-fitting ''omen's 
jeans and a blue fanny pack in place of 
a belr, Shirley is one of the cofounders 
of the Neo.v Ha,en Bike Collective. lhe 
group, which is currently thinking of 
changing its name to Cydismo, began lasr 
f211. wirh the aim of providmg free btkes 
and bike repair training ro lOCtl residents. 
Though the Collecm-e has ycr to mo' e 
be'}'ond holding organizauonal mecungs, 
writing grant proposals, and secunng a 
storage space, :Shirleo. reUs me thar they 
hope to get the program m fUll gear by 
spring. I, who spenr a bikeless childhood 
indoors, ,,;lJ be thetr first uainec. 

The collecthe has set up shop in the 
heart of Fair Haven, where the median 
income of $30,084 is $20,000 ,horr of 
the Connecticut state average. "We're 
trying to capture an audience that's not 
being serviced by high-end btke shops 
like Devil's Gear." Shirley says. "and em-
po\\er them to learn neo.v skills they can 
take home." 

SHIRLEY HOPES TO INCREA:.E TIIfi NUMBER 
ofNC\, Ha\'Cn residents who b1keto \\Ork 
But once these nC\\ bikers hn the streets, 
tht:) 'II face nC\\ difficulues: New Ha~en 
only h.ts rn-o miles of bike lanes, man} of 
which end abrupd). FJSC\, here m rhe Elm 
Cit)', cyclists ha\e to hare bUS), narrow 
roads "ith cars. For }ears, C) ding ad\oca-
C} group like ElmCiryCyclmg ha~e Clled 
the need for more bike racks, bike lanes 
and increased rights for cyclists injured in 
c.tr-bikc collisions. but the local govern-
ment ha, only recently starred ro listen. 

In 2.003, the Kew Haven Mayor's Office 
publtshed a "Share he Streets" report that 
recommended addmg rhe much-needed 
racks and lanes, as "'-"ell as slowing down 
motor traffic by installing speed bumps 
and roundabouts ro make roads safer for 
those on f\\O \\heels. So far, progress has 
been slm\. Though a lone bike lane has 
been added to Orange Street and twenty 
btke racks ha~e been prinkled through-
out the Ot), a recent 1\'nl Ha~>m Advocau 
arude notes that City Hall officials are 
sull Un\\ tllmg to com err co,·ered on-street 
parkmg spots ro btke lane,. Unimproved 
streets ltke Whimeo.· A\enue srill pose a 
danger ro cycltsrs, mduding rhe bikers 
THE l':EW JOUR..'-"AL 



**Title: Elm City Cycles**
**Author: Unlisted**
**Page number(s): 19-20**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
htrl~ and hts cohons want to tmroduce 
to already congested road 
Shutt) h ts rhe manv hurdles fotctng 
people who want to btke to ''ork "You 
ha\e to be t.aught ho\\ to nde, ha\e the 
energy to nde cveryd3} and l1\e close 
enough to make the 
mmute w But 1f 
all th~ condm n are met 
}• voure 
a F.m Ha,-en res dent "ho works m the 
area and wam the exe1ct 
ndmg a 
btke Wtll h lp to redu e .ur polluuon 10 
a neighborhood sull pi gued by former 
cool plant em1 1 n and also reduce the 
COSt of chUv transportation 'Xe work to 
undercut the fin nc1 I burden, 
htrlc:} 
expl:uns -ears c:tn co~t thou~nds of dol· 
Lars a \ear to mamt;un, \\hc:reas b1kes are 
much chc:apc[ And tf you don't have the: 
monq ro bu} a new h1ke or pay a hun· 
dred dollars for a tune-up. \OU c;~n come: 
to us mstc:ad • 
"~ bave to get the 
message right. 7bere's a 
spectrurn offree stuff, 
and this is not a hand-
out. JfJ'OU. tunnt a bike, 
you'll hatJe to help out 
the Collective first. " 
I~ ADDITION 0 ITS I NVJRONM !I.'TALAND 
monetarv benefit • rhc Collccm-e's "arn 
a-btkc program \\til hdp the nm Ha\-en 
communi!) b) doublmg as a mentor pro-
gram 
htrlcv hopes to recruit )Oungsters 
from nearb) schools and YMCA centers 
for a wc:dclv 2fter .sChool workshop, dur 
mg Y.h1ch Collectt\e members \\tll y,ork 
one-on..one " th aty > urh, reachmg 
them ~aauo~ kills so dut an am 
DC\\ ly ~red used btkes 
harlcv thought up the dea for the 
Bike Co ccu~ e 
~ er a year ago 
I was 
at an a t 
t conference m DC called 
Pm>.-er h ft and one: kid to d us that he 
had ;a uat er fu of b kes :and d dn t knO\\ 
' hat ro do "'uh rhem," he ~' 1hc blkcs 
rn quc:suon turned our ro be unsalvage 
abe but h1rla and CoUcctl\e c found-
Apnl2008 
system for distributing free btkes. Ihcy 
bq;an by collecting bikes from Freccycle 
org. an online group that connects used 
btke 0\\ nen w11h the btkdess, but u w: 
fellow Collcctr\e member Paul Hammer 
'' ho stumbled upon the real motherlodc: 
of f~ bikes: Yale. At rhe end of every 
spnng term, Hammer diSCO\ered, a Yale 
Sccumy team con6scnes all bteydes left 
on student bake racks. shepherdmg them 
to the basement of the Po~ync Wlmnq 
g>'ITI. If sull unclaimed after stx months 
the bakes become publtc propert) When 
the group rcce1ved permtSSIOO from 'tale 
Secumy to take the btkes, the Collccme 
was born. 


OVER THIS PAST WJI'<,.IlR. 111£ COLUCTIV 
exp..tnded to a core group of nound 
tWenty people, most of them Yale otnd 
ourhern students mtxed "uh a fe\\ htke 
aatvasts from ElmCtl)-<:ydmg. Tod<l)• the 
Collccuve houses O\"er I 50 secondhand 
btkes to the b.asemenr of a red bra k f-.ttr 
H:a,cn butldmg donated by a IOC<ll bu 1 
nessman. 

h1rlC) shov. 
$torehousc one unday afternoon 
room ts dtm :and du I) :and n enorm 
rat p.l\VS a woodptlc bordenn 
Ion 
stnng of btkcs 

hulq hopes to r p ar 
bakes ln the: outdoor ~rkmg lot on 
the 
Y.-eather tmpfO\es. \'( orkang outdoo wdl 
be the Collcaves roam ad,en m 
tr,u 
eg). hopefull} anracung loul resadenr 
who happen to pass ~ on the dcy,alk 
But for nm,, rhc btkcs re mil 10 tor 
age. hp of p.;per h;n-e h«n st pled to 
all rhe handleb.ar:s--g •p m~n 
Is mtssmg. most often a brake or 
whcd.A "Ch• m~nsthech:un nt \\ rk 
mg ntoothl). and the mast common bbd 
IS "RU." for rust. 

E\-entually. Shut~ hopo t 
fC8l tcr 
the bikes 10 a compurer d.at:tb.uc 
you come 10 and you \"e nC\"er fixed a b 
before and tod.n you can "' rL: li r 
r 
hours We U plug an those stats ro the d.a 
t.aiwe and moatch you up'" th a b ke thoat 
rnttts your dtill le\'ds a d t me 
m 
mcnr • He stresses dut the group " 
workmg on a S)"Jtcm of sweat equ n 
lu-e to get the message r gin lh 
spectrum of free: stuff. and th 
handout If you \\~t a b kr 
ro hdp our the Co lccu'-e 6 


IS ORO R TO Ill L THE COLl.ECTlVE!'S COP. 
H RS, the group wtll also rep.a1r btkes to 
II to people who don't have ume to fix 
theu OY.n, tn the procC'SS tramtng novice 
repa1rmen to re mA.ate ures, fix brakes, 
and replace chams After tramees ha'-e 
learned b IC ktll on the modd btkes, 
thC\ wtll be able to 1.1ckle thear own b1kes 
wtth the hdp of Collecme volunteers. 

For tho e hke me ''ho door kno" how 




**Yale's Expansion and New Haven's Future**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
YALE's TWELVE RFSJDENTlAL CO LUGES ARE 
arranged in concentric rings around the 
University's core, each facing the central 
axis of Old Campus, Cross Campus, and 
Commons. The colleg~ along the Uni-
versity'.s eastern and \\'Otern rims, sitting 
wirh their backs exposed to the city, are 
encircled by waves of urban devdopmenr. 
Morse and Ezra Stiles are overlooked by 
Payne Whitney Gymnasium from across 
the arc of Tower Parkway. Rows of Park 
Sm:er student apartments, Lynwood fra-
ternities, and Howe Street restaurants 
border Pierson and Davenpon. Silliman 
and Timothy Dwight rest on a long arm 
of polished downtown office buildings 
and shops merching up Church Street. 
On the streets surrounding every college. 
from every side, facades arc maintained, 
srores abound, and the shared economic 
life of Yale and New Haven is, by any rea-
sonable m~"asure, thriving. 

But even Yale's most self-assured cheer-
leaders of progress do not expect this ro 
be the case for Yale's planned 13th and 
14th colk-ges. lh~e colleges, slated for a 
large triangle wedged bcrween Prospect 
on one end, Canal and the Gro,·e Street 
Cemetery on the ~econd, and Sachem 
on rhe third, will sir alongside an unde-
veloped <.orner of New Haven, an area 
which campus planners refer to as lower 
Hillhouse, and \\hich promises very little 
opportunity for economic growth. 

Heading past the corner of the des-
tined triangle currently occupied by 
~ludd Libr:try, onto a segment of Sachem 
that will be steps from a student's room in 
future years. and across a desolate stretch 
of empty lots and chain-link fences, one 
encounters the only unit of retail within 
blocks: Paolillo's Service Center, a claus-
trophobic blue automobile supply store 
advertising rwo \arieries of antifreeze and 
several name brand coolants in irs win-
dow. By the admission of Michael .Mo-
rand, Yale's dapper associate vice presi-
dent of New Haven and State Affairs, "If 
you look at this area now, there's not a lot 
of service retail." And, if Morand is to be 
believed, '\ery few shops and restaurants 
will be enticed to join Paolillo's even after 
the colleges are completed. "I wouldn't 
oversell the retail implications of the new 
colleges," he says. "Students don't have 
much purchasing power." 

This entire neighborhood'.; negligible 
appeal for future businesses and students 
is something that Morand and the Uni-
versity have made lirrle effort to deny. In-
stead, officials have ignored the problem 
publicly. perhaps because they realize that 
the truth may be a bitter pill for students 
and alumni to swallow: In the face of the 
University's most important expansion in 
half a century, the strategies which, for 15 
years. Yale and New Haven have joindy 
and successfully employed to attract 
wealth. revitalization, and investment to 
the city will, it appears. hit their limit. 

IT IS DIFFICULT TO UNDERESTIMATE THE in-
fluence Yale is unwilling-or unable--to 
use to transform Lower Hillhouse. Yale's 
engine of economic growth has no doubt 
been responsible for dramatic changes in 
the New Haven business-scape during 
the past decade and a half. Perceptions of 
town-gown conflict aside, the mayor's ad-
ministration recognizes the perks of host· 
ing a world class university. "It's beneficial 
for us being in a college town," explains 
Kelly Murphy. New Haven's economic 
development administrator. "I think the 
reladonship bcrween Mayor DeStefano 
and President Levin is very good. 'What's 
good tOr the city is good for Yale, and 
what's good for Yale is good for the city." 

Yale's primary economic strength ema-
nates from the fact that as a university. it 
is highly resistant to economic recessions. 
Yale attracts thousands of srudenrs, fac-
ulry, and staff to the city, bringing about 
half a million visitors to New H:tven an-
nually. The University, in turn, inocul.ues 
the areas around it, injecting local busi-
nesses such as support services, research, 
and particularly construction, with regu-
lar investments. University employees, 
who enjoy job and income security, spend 
their earnings on retail in the area. In 
2000, the University estimated that it di-
rectly conrributed almost a billion dollar~ 
to rhe merro area economy that year; its 
indirect impact was considerably greater. 

To :-:ew Ha\·en's benefit, Yale is a mag-
net for im·estmem. "A lot of people out-
side of the area may not know New Ha-
ven," Murphy says. "But they know Yale." 

National businesses. from the forthcom-
ing American Apparel on Broadway to 
Pfiur in irs immaculate $35 million 
clinical research facility next to the School 
of .Medicine, regularly approach Yale to 
consider leasing University property. Yale 
frequently rebuffs such requests and, ac-
cording to Karyn Gilvarg, a member of 
Murphy's economic development team, 
puts irs suitors in contact with the city. 
"When developers are interested, they 
send them our way," Gilvarg says, explain-
ing that this sort of "anecdotal" support 
can be extremely valuable. Sometimes 
Yale can catalyze a project merely by con-
tributing its prestige. The Omni Hotel on 
Temple Street was redeveloped once Yale 
agreed to attach irs name to the project, 
creating the Omni New Haven Hotel at 
Yale. "Something seemingly intangible 
like that," says Gilvarg, "can have a major 
impact." 

Across a desolate stretch 
of empty Lots and chain-
Link fences, one en-
counters the only unit 
of retail within blocks: 
Paolillo's Service Center. 

YAI.E CREATES THE GRI'.ATEST RIPPLE EFFECT, 
however, when it says yes to developers. 
On Broad\v-~y. the crown jewel of New 
Haven\ revitalization, Yale first started 
buying properties and upgrading the 
street'~ physical appearance more than 
ten years ago. Working with the city, Yale 
used its business relationships and pres-
tige to entice tenants such as]. Crew and 
Urban Outfitters. Scott Healy, executive 
director of the Town Green Special Ser-
vices District, a semi-independent devel-
opment agency funded direccly by prop-
erty owners. calls these national chains 
"retail anchors in downtown." Once the 
first chains had signed on, the dominoes 
began to fall. A full complement of busi-
nesses quickly emerged in what the Uni-
ver~ity now proudly calls irs "retail dis-
trict." Change was felt as far away as the: 
i\brrion on Whalley Avenue. The hotel 
chain moved into a building adjacent to 
campus bur not owned by the University. 
Morand refers to this rype of development 
as the "catalytic impact." 

When Yale expands, benefits rebound 
back to the city. Property raxes from de-
velopments fill the city's coffers and outer-
city residents come downtown to spend 
their money. Moreover, ~mall busines~es, 
whose role in the downtown economy 
has largely been slipping in recent years, 
have come to fill a niche created by the 
big business Yale brmgs to the ciry. Wal-
ter Esdaile, director of New Haven\ Small 
Business lniciative, c:xphins that, though 
Yale development has prevented rhe rise 
of cercain rypes of small businesses, ir has 
opened the door for others. "It's tougher 
for a lot of our smaller guys to step into 
the Yale srandard. let's pur it rhar way," he 
says, referring to locally owned shops in 
prime Yale areas. Bur for local conmuc-
rion contractors and supporr sen.ices, Yale 
provides a steady stream of business. This 
dynamic is one component of a pov.erful 
partnership that has achieved a great deal 
when President Levin and ~1ayor DeSte-
fano have pointed it in a mutually benefi-
cial direction. 

Lower Hillhouse, it appear,, h no sud: 
direcrion. Yale and ~ew Haven"s current 
development plans include no mention 
of transforming this quiet and somewhat 
dilapidated residential area-"a good 
American neighborhood," in Morand's 
careful construction-into a new center 
of commerce that those affiliated with 
and arrracted ro Yale might actually pa-
tronize. New Haven is nor prioritizing the 
neighborhood for development, and Yale: 
has either kept silent about irs dissatisf.lc-
tion or is simply indifferent. Whatever rhe 
reason, usustained cooperation~ between 
DeStefano and Levin. which Morand 
and so many others credit with being the 
first step toward change in the city, is not 
forchcoming for this neighborhood. 

"What's good for the 
city is good for Yale, and 
what's good for Yale is 
good for the city. " 
-Kelly Murphy 

lnqcad, the City and the University 
ha\e more or less agreed to focus on an 
en tardy different part of rown. DeS re-
f., no recently laid our New Haven's long 
term devdopmenr aims according ro a 
$1.5 billion agenda he calls the "Future 
Framework." Bearing his PowerPoim 
gospc:l to City Hall meetings. DeStefano 
explained that he w·amed ro see "urban 
in fill" around the downtown area by con-
verting rhe unsightly Route 34 highway 
into an urban boulevard and connecting 
the Medical District and Union Sta-
tion ro downtown proper. ~furphy later 
amplified rhe mayor\ philosophy: "New 
Haven is a fully dt"Vdoped ciry, basically, 
within our borders ... che idea is stitching 
rhe dry together." 

lr is a bold and exciting mission. and 
one to which che Uni\'c~•rv is also devot· 
ing much of irs attention. Since April of 
2000, when Yale pubLshed ~A frame-
\\Ork for Cunpu~ Planning," its blueprint 
for future: dc:vdopmc:nr, the University 
h.ts been looking to achieve: a goal con-
stantly repeated in the document: "im-
proved connections among Yale's three 


campuses," identified as Central Cam~ 
Pus, the Medical Center, and the Athletic 
Fields. Morand, echoing DeStefano, says 
the University's aim is "extending the vi~ 
tality of downtown" by connecting the 
University's core with the train station 
and the Medical Center. Yale is doubly in-
terested in f~tering development around 
the Medical School in order to create a 
•thriving biotechnology indu.my in :-:ew 
Ha\·en; according to Jon Soderstrom, 
managing director of the Office of Coop-
erative Research. The OCR, which works 
closely with Morand's office, is hoping 
chat 5uch an industry will help to attract 
and retain faculty by offering research op-
porrunities. 

For these reasons, the area berween 
Central Campus and the Medical School 
has been lavished with enormous at-
tention. The city is building a new high 
school and accompanying retail space, 
the University is leasing property at 300 
George Street to fill vacant lots, and the 
dean of the Medical School is constantly 
negotiating with outside developers. The 
University has committed eight million 
dollars to a new Economic Development 
Corporation run jointly by the City and 
Yale to provide an independent imperus 
for downtown development. 

((There are no com-
mercial corridors close 
enough to the proposed 
site of the colleges to see 
any influx of new com-
merce. "-Scott Healy 

The only area anywhere near Lower Hill-
house chat attracts this type of joint at-
tention is Science Park, off Prospect Street 
near Marsh Hall, a hub of technology 
businesses of interest to the City and Yale 
for many of the same reasons that Yale 
is encouraging biotechnology near the 
Medical School. Should development 
in Science Park begin to attract retail as 
Morand hopes, it will not do students in 
the new colleges much good; it is still far 
enough away chat they might as well walk 
over to Audubon. 

Even if Yale wanted to develop Low-
er Hillhouse itself, it is not clear how it 
would proceed. For one thing, the Uni-
versity controls little property beyond the 
ten million dollar corner of the Prospect-
Sachem-Canal triangle it purchased from 
the City. "There really isn't any chat we 
own. The current space we have wouldn't 
lend itself to [retail)," Morand says, re-
ferring to the Rose Center, a beautiful 
community education center run by Yale 
about a block past the proposed site of 
the colleges, a Yale police station, and a 
Bristol Street building even farther away 
which the University purchased, cleaned 
up, and sold to Beulah Land Develop-
ment Corporation. These developments 
have resulted, in part, from a subdued




**Title: The New Colleges and Their Neighborhood**
**Author: Mitch Rich**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
-push over the last several years to clean up 
an area that has served as an occasional 
student route between Swing Space and 
Science Hill. 

That a rehabilitation project begun in 
tandem with the 1997 construction of 
Swing Space has achieved so little tan-
gible progress is perhaps indicative of 
the University's minimal influence in the 
neighborhood. Since most of the remain-
ing property consists of private homes, it 
is unlikely that Yale will be able to acquire 
much of it. Funhermore, the closest the 
third building on the proposed site of the 
colleges-which will likely be filled with 
classrooms and performance spaces-will 
come to retail space is a late-night caf~. "I 
think it's doubtful," Morand says of com-
mercial development within the colleges. 
"It's not a priority for anyone that the col-
leges themselves include retail." 

Those who accept that the University 
is unlikely co single-handedly remake 
the neighborhood-an undoubtedly dif-
ficuh goal, given that past developments 
have generally required cooperation with 
the Mayor's Offi~hold out hope that 
the marker alone will spur development. 
Greg Morehead, the Ward 22 alderman 
who represents the area, explains that resi-
dents are almosc universally enthusiastic 
about the prospect of the colleges. Many, 
Morehead included, hope that some 
modest development will follow. "I don't 
think [it will be) necessarily attracted by 
the colleges," he concedes. "But it's going 
to be a plus. If there are no restaurants in 
the area, some will be attracted by the col-
leges." Morand also believes, despite his 
doubts about student purchasing power 
as a draw for commerce, that businesses 
will respond in some way to the influx of 
several hundred new residents. 

Healy offers a more damning assess-
ment. "There are no commercial corridors 
close enough co the proposed site of the 
colleges co see any influx of new com-
merce: he says. "It's possible, though, 
that commercial demand will grow or-
ganically, providing incentive for the 
development of storefronts in the area. • 
But Healy guesses that the most probable 
commercial influx will be in the form of 
food pushcarts. 

PERHAPS, ULTIMATELY, DEVELOPMEST OF 
the l..olo\o-er Hillhouse area will be unneces-
sary for students in the new colleges. They 
will be three minutes' walking distance 
from the nearest scores on Whitney. and 
President Levin has endorsed the College 
Study Groups' recommendations that the 
University enhance security in the area 
and provide regular transportation be-
tween the new additions and the rest of 
campus (the center of which is, after all, 
only three blocks away). The University 
may even consider new retail on the first 
floor of the Becton Center. 

But, in the absence of commercial de-
velopment, life for students who live in 
the new colleges will be crucially different 
from student life in every other residential 
college. While the others are cloistered 
not only within the University itself bur 
also within the most thriving and inviring 
parts of the city, the new colleges will jut 
into an area in which students will have 
little reason ever to set foot. 

The new colleges might pierce the Yale 
bubble, placing studentS side-by-side with 
a good American neighborhood. In this 
way, the University may finally realize irs 
2000 Framework objective of "blending 
campus edges with surrounding neigh-
borhoods." Bur if students end up more 
isolated and inconvenienced than their 
peers, they might find themselves wish-
ing that the University, somewhere in its 
Study Group document or official delib-
erations, had planned co place their new 
home somewhere they might actually 
want to live. 

TNJ 
Mitch Rnch, a junior in Pinson Co/kg~, is a 
managJng ~difQr tifTNJ. 


**Title: It Begins With a Blue Book**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

FEATURE 
IT BEGINS WITH A BWE BOOK. 
Each July, reluctant hands Rip through 
pulpy pages. Corners are folded, pages arc 
marked, highlighters run dry. At the end 
of summer, every moment is bittersweet, 
but the arrival of the Yale College course 
caralog heralds the end. 

Except for freshmen. I remember my 
first Blue Book, dog-cared within hours 
and scrawled full of marginalia within the 
week. I declined Directed Studies that 
summer, deciding I had too many choices 
to be directed. 

Instead, I applied for a freshman semi-
nar. A small class had three chief virtues 
in my mind: It would allow me to get to 
know a professor the way I'd known my 
high-school teachers, it would introduce 
me to freshmen with similar interests, and 
it would point me down a track toY;ard 
a major, or not. I picked MRevolutionary 
America.~ taught by Jon Buder, dean of 
the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. 
A big name. a big wpic, a big disappoint-
ment: I was rejected in August. 

BlTfLER, I LEARNED THIS WEEK, IS SHORT 
o~nd grey-bearded. His voice is lilting, and 
\\hen he's excited, he giggle:.. He reminds 
me of my grandfather, except my grand-
father is not a world-famous historian. 
Though Buder is "too busy dean-ing ~ to 
teach a lecture on religion and modern 
America, the topic that made him famous, 
he is teaching it as a freshman seminar. 
This is a major loss for rhe upperclass-
men who would have filled his lecture 
hall. After all, his seminar garners glowing 
reviews year after year: "lr was personal 
and real," one effusive freshman writes. 
"Having an opportunity ro learn with teh 
(sic] Dean of rhe Grad School is price-
less," exclaims another. "He truly helped 
improve my writing and has made me a 
better student in the process." Asked if 
he or she would recommend rhe course 
to others, one freshman notes, "I already 
have. Unfortunately, none of them can 
take it because they're nor going to be 
freshmen again." 

· Io Buder, such accolades are the 
highest form of praise. He is not merely 
the professor of one of the most popu-
lar freshman seminars, but rhe person 
who catalyzed the program's crea£ion six 
years ago. Buder served as a member of 
the Committee on Yale College Educa-
tion (CYCE), which convened in 2001 
ro "assess the adequacy of the current 
undergraduate program and to consider 
changes and improvements." It was he 
who suggested that the College take a 
new approach to educating freshmen, and 
it was he who taught the first fre,hman 
seminar in the fall of2002. 

That seminar was 
"Revolutionary 
America," the class I triple-underlined in 
.. green htghlighter cwo ye3rs later. When 
Buder first offered it, he admits he w:u 
offering it as a test CI.SC to prove that the 
format could work. "I probably wasn't 
the right person to do it," he says with a 
laugh. "I had a bit of a vested anterest." 

Afrer an unden,helming stan in 2002, 
when only 13 students showed up for the 
firsr day of class-"no one knew quite 
what it was, so the registrar had assigned 
the cour)e to a lecture hall" -the course 
developed a reputation. Ont" ye3r later, 55 
freshmen crowded into a semin.u room 
eager ro sign up. 

While no ont" doubted rhar Buder's 
seminar would find succe~s. a singlt" stellar 
seminar daes nor make a program. Fresh-
!l13.Jl seminars, however, have .1chievc:d 
success in their own right. "!heir small 
• size and rv.ice-\\eekly meetings nurture 
relationships among students and facuhy. 
Their interactive dynamic encourages 
freshmen to engage in their own educa-
tion. "This isn't Math 112," s;~ys Dean of 
Freshman Affairs George Levesque, who 
runs the program. "You're having an ac-
rual conversation." 

Six ye3rs after Buder's test run, as the 
program faces its first full e\-aluation, the 
freshman seminar experiment has only 
one glirch: too many freshman e3ger ro 
rake roo few courses. 

IN 2004, THF. COLLF.GF. OFFERIJO 16 SEMI· 
nars, with room for just under three hun-
dred freshmen to enroll. "this year, there: 
are 32--enough ro sear one third of the 
class of 20 II. Add that ro the Directed 
Studies and Perspective.) on Science popu-
lations-the three programs are mutually 
exclusive-and that figure rises ro almrut 
50 percent. 

Nonetheless, plenty of freshmen are left 
out. This year, 0\er eight hundred fresh-
men applied for jusr under five hundred 
seminar seats, despite the dean's offices 
avowed desire 10 create a space for ~ery 
interested student. At liberal aru colleges 
scattered throughout the country, the 
idea that only half of all freshmen rake 
a single small class v.ould be laughable. 
Bur first·)ears in the freshman seminar 
program, Directed .Studies, and Perspcc-
rives on Science are nor rhe only one~ ex· 
pc:riencing the intimae}• of the classroom. 
The English, mathematics, and language 
departments have offered ~mall introduc-
tory cl~es for decades. A few year~ ago, 
<:\'en the economics department, \\hich is 
nor known for its attention ro pedagogy, 
added a small, lottery-based alternathe to 
its large introductory lecrures. 

Still, the overwhelmingly enthusiastic 
response from students in freshman semi-
nars seems to indicate that the program 
h unique. "Among students, I think the 
satisfaction rate is probably 85, 90 per-
cent," Levesque estimates. Asked to evalu-
ate the classes at term's end, freshmen 
describe: their seminars with exclamations 
like "awesome" and "TAKE IT!" Many 
freshmen ask their seminar professors ro 
serve as second-year advisor~. Associate: 
Dean Penelope Laurans, who converted a 
longstanding poetry course: ro a freshman 
seminar in 2005, estimates rhar 13 of her 
freshmen studenrs from last spring now 
come ro her for academic advice. 

Loyal converts include nor just stu· 
dents bur professors. Of this year's 32 
seminars, 23 are taught by profo)or~ v.ho 
are returning to reach a second course or 
to repeat a first. These namo, \\hich in-
clude physicist Peter Parker and jack-of-
all-trades 81 • Summers, are among Yale's 
most notable; 'l!mosr all have tenure and 
several have won reaching awards. 

All agree that the program has be-
come one of Yale's finest commitments 
to it' Mudents. "'I he: pedagogical value of 
these seminar' w freshmen is very clear," 
says Cerman Profes,or Emeritus Cyrus 
Hamlin, who taught a seminar on Ger-
man culture ustng the: Beinc:cke Library's 
collections in 2004. "In freshman year, a 
genuine intellectual transformation rakes 
place." Hamlin retired in 2005 bur is con-
sidering rerurnmg in mo }ea~ to reach 
another freshman seminar. 

Buder is pleased. "Faculty have come 
up to me and said, 'lbb i~ the best te3ch-
ing expenence I have ever had. Period,'" 
he ~id. "I think the program's working." 
lhe doubts expre,sed by CYCE members, 
which centered on concern that the ex-
panding program would eventually run 
out of interested f.1culty members, have 
largely di,sipatcd. 

IJIE PROGRAM liAS Al-~0 HAO A POSITIVE 
effect on fiN-year .1dvising. "The advising 
'YMc:m needs an overhaul," says Levesque. 
"'Ine hope for frl-:;hman seminars is that 
students and faculty develop long-term 
relationships." .Sighing. he continues: "I 
don't think the freshman seminar pro-
gram alone can sohe that problem, bur 
it's seemed ro provide a much more or-
game way for freshmen to get to know 
faculty members." 

Hamlin's experience pro\·es rhe point. 
His seminar, v.hich required a reading 
knowledge of German, consisted of only 
eight freshmen-and he h~ kept up with 
many. "110\ed the attention rhat we got," 



**Title: Yale's Freshman Seminars: A Program at a Plateau**
**Author: Ala Hamlin**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
says senior Janice Wong, a molecular bio-
chemist who took the class. Intrigued by 
the material, she continued to study with 
Hamlin as a sophomore and spent the fol-
lowing summer studying abroad in Ger-
many.

Hamlin's colleague, German Professor 
Carol Jacobs, is just as happy to have con-
tributed to the program. "My experience 
teaching a freshman seminar was exhil-
arating," she says. "In no other seminar I've 
taught at Yale have I seen students grow as 
much as in that semester."

BUT THE RECENT SIGNS OF STABILIZATION 
portend difficulties of their own. Growth 
has slowed: last year's 33 seminars were 
followed by this year's 32.

"We're at a plateau right now," admits 
Levesque. Nevertheless, he is excited to 
shepherd the program into its fifth year. 
Several notable faculty will teach new 
freshman seminars, including John Gad-
dis, who will lead a course entitled "How 
History Teaches"; others will return. But 
as the program attempts to continue its 
growth, it faces the challenges that come 
with provoking entrenched academic 
structures.

One obstacle is the program's reluc-
tance to engage junior faculty members. 
The vast majority of freshman seminar 
professors are, like Gaddis, tenured or ten-
ure-track faculty with long records of ser-
vice to the University and reputations as 
devoted teachers. Such a teaching force is 
one of the program's strengths, of course, 
and Dean Levesque's office has resisted 
the temptation to fill holes with non-lad-
der faculty who might not be around for 
four continuous years to develop the sort 
of long-lasting relationships the program 
is meant to inspire. But the fact that only 
eight of this year's 32 seminars are taught 
by ladder faculty still working to achieve 
tenure—a demographic which dominates 
the college's teaching corps—suggests that 
the program's strength also diminishes its 
ability to expand.

Junior faculty remain largely disin-
terested in the program. The primary 
culprit is the incentive structure created 
by the academy's so-called tenure ladder. 
"Tenured faculty often have more flexibil-
ity in what they can do," says Levesque. 
"For a lot of them, teaching a freshman 
seminar is a welcome opportunity to do 
something new." Junior faculty, on the 
other hand, confronted with the pressure 
to publish, often need to gravitate toward 
large lectures and advanced seminars. The 
former require little in the way of course 
design, and the latter are more helpful in 
advancing one's own research. Under a 
system that subordinates teaching skills to 
publishing prowess, the freshman seminar 
program is bumping up against a teacher 
shortage.

Other challenges may not be intrinsi-
cable—just expensive. "I don't know that 
we'll be able to get beyond this plateau 
without significant additional resources," 
Levesque states. Funding, which is begin-
ning to stream in from committed alumni 
donors, could be directed to one of two 
areas: Either to a long-term investment in 
administrative support or to understaffed 
academic departments. The first need 
is clear: Levesque and a single assistant 
oversee not only the freshman seminar 
program, but also freshman counseling, 
pre-orientation programs, and first-year 
advising. Additional funding could hire a 
full-time seminar coordinator and build a 
training program for professors who wish 
to teach but do not feel pedagogically pre-
pared to teach freshmen.


"in freshman year, a 
genuine intellectual 
transformation takes 
place." 
-Cyrus Hamlin


Donating the funds directly to academic 
departments is more complex and ties into 
an issue addressed in the recent report on 
Yale College expansion: The alleviation 
of pressures within individual depart-
ments, particularly in the social sciences. 
For example, the incredibly popular po-
litical science department has offered only 
three freshman seminars since 2004, and 
all were in the program's first two years. 
"We simply don't have the faculty," said 
Political Science Professor Susan Stokes, 
the department's director of undergradu-
ate studies. Departments as strapped as 
political science must save their seminar 
resources for upperclassmen.

Still, Levesque suggests that an increase 
in freshman seminar funding could alle-
viate one deficiency while also helping to 
solve the other. "With more resources," 
says Levesque, "we could work with de-
partments to find creative solutions to 
staffing needs." One approach—shared by 
several of Yale's peer institutions—would 
be a permanent endowment that would 
compensate Yale departments for teach-
ing time, allowing them to hire visiting 
or full-time faculty to fill programmatic 
needs. By contributing funding to the de-
partmental pot, the program could secure 
a commitment from individual depart-
ments to offer a small number of fresh-
man seminars each year.

Buder, for one, is skeptical. "I'd say we 
need to expand the faculty in political sci-
ence," he says. "If we can do that, we'll 
have some room for freshman seminars. 
But I personally wouldn't go for visiting 
people—and I think it's most important 
that we grow political science to a decent 
size." While Levesque prioritizes immedi-
ate challenges and Butler long-term ob-
stacles, both agree that there are gaps to 
fill. The question is how—and when.

YALE'S PEER INSTITUTIONS HAVE GRAPPLED 
with, and largely resolved, similar prob-
lems. Harvard's freshman seminar pro-
gram traces its roots to the 1960s and has 
experienced something of a renaissance 
in the last five years. Its offerings have 
quadrupled in number, reaching 122 this 
year. "Departments were asked to look at 
giving freshman seminars as part of their 
overall curricular planning," explains San-
dra Naddaff, who directs the Harvard 
program. "That went a long way towards 
getting departments to offer seminars and 
to think about it as something that was 
part of their service to the college."

Roughly a third of Harvard seminars 
are taught by non-ladder faculty mem-
bers, and another quarter are taught by 
professional school professors who are 
directly compensated by the program. 
"Harvard's a bigger place—they have a lot 
more of those people running around," 
notes Levesque. "We've always wanted 
to keep the program under departments' 
control."

Princeton's freshman seminar program 
resembles a more developed version of 
Yale's own. Most of this year's 78 seminars 
are taught by senior faculty, including 
Toni Morrison, Joyce Carol Oates, and 
the college's former provost, Amy Gutt-
man. Moreover, since its inception in the 
late 1980s, the program's financial struc-
ture has echoed Levesque's ambitions. 
Roughly half of Princeton's freshman sem-
inars are funded directly by endowments, 
and the program reimburses departments 
for the teaching time contributed by their 
professors. Some of the endowment funds 
can also be used to subsidize activities like 
dinners, field trips, or summer continua-
tions of certain courses.

If other Ivy League colleges can offer 
Yale's freshman seminar program a les-
son, it is the necessity of funding. Hamlin 
makes a blunt case: "Yale is rich. Lately, 
their endowment is doing so well that 
they ought to commit to staffing the 
freshman seminars in sufficient numbers 
such that any freshman who wants to take 
one, can."

Four years ago, smarting from my re-
jection, I might have agreed. Though it 
would be nice to allow rejected applicants 
spaces in a seminar, the gap between sup-
ply and demand is not the only factor 
that influences scheduling. Students often 
drop classes they sign up for, leaving some 
seminars unfilled while others remain 
overbooked. Incoming freshmen who 
intend to pursue majors in science and 
math are particularly problematic, and 
those departments have resisted heavy 
participation in the program.

The freshman seminar program may 
have expanded to just about its limit. 
Levesque, for his part, seems to be moving 
onto new challenges. "What would it be 
like to teach CHEM 114 in a thirty-per-
son class?" he asks. In his eyes, freshman 
seminars are incubators of educational 
innovation rather than a one-size-fits-all 
solution.

"We have to accept that there is no 
perfect way to make every single fresh-
man have a great experience," says Lau-
rans. Yale's challenge in coming years will 
be to accept this reality, adjust to it, and 
still live up to the sky-high expectations of 
Blue Book-gripping freshmen in July.


**Title: The Van Vechten Files**
**Author: Amy Fish**
**Page number(s): 30**

Confronting a literary icon's controversial collections.



**Title: Van Vechten's Scrapbooks**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• . 
"THIS IS .II.~ 
Cut out of newsprint like a ransom 
note, the words sprawl across the top of 
the page. Below lies a large black and white 
photograph of a young, pale-skinned man 
wearing nothing but a garland. His lips 
shine; his pelvis thrusts forward in bold 
display. There's no getting around the 
focus of the picture: The penis, standing 
proud at center stage. 

I furtively scan the Beinecke reading 
room: Has anyone looked up from his 
medieval manuscripts? The coast is clear. 
I look back down to read the last words 
pasted on the page. 
~come on in, Sucker." 
WELCOME TO PAGE ONE OF THE SCRAP-
books of Carl Van Vechten, luminary of 
the twentieth century New York arts scene 
- and notorious provocateur. The foremost 
white patron of the Harlem Renaissance, 
he brought Langston Hughes and Zora 
Neale Hurston to publishers and white 
tourists to Harlem in the 1920s and 30s. 
Equal parts patron and partier. "Carlo" 
knew everyone and everyone came to his 
parties. One of the best-connected people 
of his era, he has also been one of the most 
neglected in its recent historical memory. 
Pitches like "Come 
say HELLO to a GOOD 
BUY.", 
"You'll like it!", 
and "Just taste this new 
kind!" become the sly 
subtitles to pictures of 
naked men. 

VAN VECHTEN'S SCRAPBOOKS, HOWEVER, 
are reviving his legacy in ways no one 
anticipated. The books arrived at Yale, 
packed in three mysterious cartons bearing 
strict instructions not to be opened until 
25 years after his death, which occurred 
in 1964. Patricia Willis, the soft-spoken 
curator of American literature at the Bei-
necke Rare Book and Manuscript Library, 
remembers when the albums were still a 
mystery. "They were in the stacks with 
rope around them that said 'restricted.'" 
she says. As the 25-year mark drew near, 
scholars assumed they were about to un-
veil Van Vechten's diaries. "They said, 'Of 
course, this is going to be exciting, and 
let's open those journals and have a party,' 
and the curator said, 'Well, I don't think 
so...' It was a good instinct." The few 
people who did attend the 1989 opening, 
including Willis, were shocked by what 
they found: 18 scrapbooks of graphic ho-
moeroticism, full of mischief and devoid 
of explanation. 

THE SCRAPBOOKS TAKE VAN VECHTEN'S 
legendarily wicked humor to an outra-
geous new level. He had a knack for the 
fiendish double entendre, turning other-
wise innocent phrases into cheeky cap-
tions for his images of conspicuous erec-
tions: "Such fine Wares at Low Prices!" 
"Learn to sip, not guzzle." He reveled in 
the seductive tone of twentieth century 
advertising. Pitches like "Come say 'HEL-
LO' to a GOOD BUY!", "You'll like it!", 
and "Just taste this new kind!" become the 
sly subtitles to pictures of naked men. He 
was especially fond of ads in the second 
person, wielding an aggressively intimate 
"you" that makes the viewer feel strangely 
complicit in his vice. 

Van Vechten collected newspaper clip-
pings chronicling Harlem drag balls, early 
sex-change operations ("GI Who Turned 
Woman is a Happy Beauty"), court cases 
for "morals charges," and abuse incidents. 
He assembled more restrained, if still the-
atrical, black and white photographs of 
male nudes, both Caucasian and African 
American, which most scholars think are 
mostly or entirely the work of Van Vech-
ten. Nothing escaped him: Photos of 
ambiguously homoerotic Greek vases, la-
beled in childishly rounded handwriting, 
nestle against newspaper cuttings of male 
wrestlers locked in combat. 

But as we—librarians, art historians, 
gender studies scholars, and the casual 
Beinecke browser—try to understand the 
Van Vechten behind these irreverent col-
lages, we must confront the darker side of 
the scrapbooks. First, a persistent strain of 
pedophilia. "Do you want a baby?" says a 
clipping next to a photograph of an ado-
lescent boy wearing nothing but Greek 
lace-up sandals; on another page, two boys 
hold each other's erections. There is also a 
troubling strain of racism. A young, tall 
blond leers down at a shorter black boy, 
who grins broadly as he grips the other's 
shoulders proprietarily; one of its four 
captions reads, "In identifying meat, color 
is our best guide." Another page shows a 
French soldier sodomizing an Arab boy. 
Such scenes, numerous and shockingly 
extreme, are impossible to dismiss. They 
threaten to crumble an already shaky un-
derstanding of a complex man. 

VAN VECHTEN, SCHOLARS SPECULATE, 
compiled the scrapbooks between the 
1930s and the 1950s. Participating in a 
trend of scrapbook sharing, he probably 
passed them around and received clip-
ping contributions from a small and co-
vert circle of friends. Since going public, 
the scrapbooks have gathered enough of 
a cult following among academics that 
they're beginning to fall apart; they flaked 
as I turned the pages. Still, their current 
audience, like the first, remains small 
and under the radar. The albums form a 
mere fraction of the legacy of a man who 
worked tirelessly to preserve the cultural 
artifacts of his era and to showcase its 
biracialism. A fervent believer in cultural 
cross-pollination, Van Vechten convinced 
his white artist friends to leave their col-
lections to Fisk, a historically African 
American university in Nashville, and 
his black friends to donate their papers 
to Yale's own Beinecke, thereby creat-
ing the treasured James Weldon Johnson 
collection. 

Van Vechten had a keen sense of his 
own role in history. He purposefully made 
himself an indispensable commercial and 
cultural link between Harlem and white 
New York. Jennifer Wood, the effusive 
dean of Ezra Stiles College and Yale's in-
house expert on the scrapbooks, argues 
that the Harlem Renaissance would not 
have occurred as it did without him. "He 
really brought the power of the white 
publishing houses to the Harlem Renais-
sance," she explains. "And that shaped it, 
for better or worse." 

In the 1960s, when the Harlem Renais-
sance came back in vogue, historians tried 
to forget Van Vechten, and, with him, the 
uncomfortable role of whites in the move-
ment. In the past decade, however, he has 
reappeared in academia. "He speaks to 
some issues that we're working on now," 
Wood explains, "in terms of white fasci-
nation with black culture and the many 
ramifications that can have." 

The scrapbooks lie at the heart of 
the Van Vechten dilemma, forcing us 
to consider how prejudice, even if un-
conscious, played in this cross-racial 
pioneer. While he was exchanging long, 
frequent letters with Langston Hughes, 
he was also collecting typewritten poems—scanned 
from the newspaper 
clippings in his scrapbooks—full of 
sexual sing-song rhymes unprintably of-
fensive toward blacks. Even as his pri-
vate scrapbook snapshots betray his erotic and 
exotic fascination with black bodies, 
his public photographs of black artists, 
musicians, and writers show a profound 
respect for and will to document Afri-
can American artistic production. These 
scrapbooks may be the last frontier of Van 
Vechten's persona, a dangerous landscape 
that tempts scholars to put it in unopen-
able boxes and return to the "Carlo" they 
knew and loved. 

Wood, who is writing her disserta-
tion on Van Vechten, knows firsthand 
the difficulty of verbalizing the contents 
of the books. "Nothing can prepare 
you 
for sitting down with them," she says. 
Most scholars don't even try. Yale's own 
Lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender 
studies website describes the collections as 
"a lighthearted, ironic comment on ho-
mosexual men, lesbians, and masculinity 
and femininity." Jonathan Weinberg, who 
wrote one of the first pieces of scholarship 
about the scrapbooks, a 1994 article titled 
"Boy Crazy," celebrates how Van Vechten 
"found homosexuality where homosexu-
ality had been suppressed... and he found 
homosexuality where it was not supposed 
to be." Yet Weinberg fails to mention race 
throughout the first half of the essay, and 
by the end of the twenty-five-page article 
the issue seems almost forgotten. The im-
ages reproduced from the scrapbooks usu-
ally show only photographs of whites or 
the least offensive images of blacks. Con-
fronted with elements incongruous to a 
well-respected historical figure, scholars 
have chosen to turn away.


"It's hard to say what 
he actually felt about 
really anything," Wood 
confesses. "He has 
his tongue firmly placed 
in his cheek at all times." 

Wood agrees that academia has down-
played the most disturbing aspects of the 
books, focusing instead on their straight-
forward, easily celebrated components. 
Scholars have seized on the albums as an 
obsessively meticulous record of gay his-
tory, a discipline in which many docu-
ments have been lost or destroyed. "The 
archive in its own right is stunning," says 
Wood. "I mean it's one of the best, if not 
the best... of this period." Combined with 
the Fisk and James Weldon Johnson col-
lections, the scrapbook archive cements 
Van Vechten's place as an invaluable his-
torian. Art historians, meanwhile, have 
concentrated on the less pornographic, 
more aestheticized nude portraits, those 
that coincide with Van Vechten's image as 
a praiseworthy photographer. 

Some scholars avoid the albums entirely. 
"There are twenty books about him from 
the last twenty years that do not mention 
the scrapbooks at all," Wood says. "There 
are people who are really steering away 
from them." One of the reasons scholars 
may shirk from interpreting the scrap-
books is that, in his life and work, Van 
Vechten remained stubbornly unreadable. 
"It's hard to say what he actually felt about 
really anything," Wood confesses. "He has 
his tongue firmly placed in his cheek at 
all times." 

In a few months, Willis plans to launch 
an exhibit of Van Vechten's relatively 
unknown color photographs of African 
American artists. This show is intended 
to broaden perceptions of Van Vechten, 
but no images from the scrapbooks will 
be included. 

In 2006, scholar James M. D'Addario opened 
the scrapbooks to an in-depth discussion 
of race. In a book titled *The Homophile 
Photography of Carl Van Vechten*, D'Addario 
argues that Van Vechten "needed" the bi-
racial element of the scrapbooks to justify 
both his erotic interest in African Ameri-
cans and his faith in cultural interracial-
ism. This explanation seems inadequate 
given the aggressive and unhesitating 
nature of Van Vechten's racial erotica. 
The argument also neglects the fact that 
the albums, though private during Van 
Vechten's lifetime, were eventually meant 
to go public. 

"There's a bit of social engineering, 
there's a little bit of control in everything 
he does," says Wood. "Whatever his per-
sonal feelings, Van Vechten never forgot 
about his public image." Still, D'Addario hits 
something at the heart of the scrapbooks. 
Just as Van Vechten might have "needed" 
the scrapbooks to see his own life in a cer-
tain way, every viewer sees in them what 
he or she needs to see. Some see a simple 
historical archive, others a celebrated 
point in the history of gay rights, and still 
others an aesthetic contribution to pho-
tography. Van Vechten, the consummate 
manipulator, has become the object of 
our own manipulations. 

When I view the scrapbooks, I squirm 
at Van Vechten's assumed license to cross 
and re-cross the racial line. He would 
have underestimated just how unaccept-
able such an attitude would seem in 2008. 
Wood characterizes Van Vechten as un-
derstanding himself as being able to tran-
gress racial boundaries. "...he felt he had 
some sort of special dispensation to speak 
for and about African Americans." He is, 
Wood says, "a projector of Elvis Presley 
and Eminem, what have you. People have 
this white character who's going to talk 
about race as an insider in some way." I 
once researched Van Vechten's notorious 
1926 novel *Nigger Heaven*. Its handy 
"insider's" view of Harlem life. While the 
book projects an innocent disregard for 
its own problematic nature, there is some-
thing knowing in its ability to capture 
the reader's reluctant fascination. While 
much of Harlem railed against it, as his-
torian Michael S. Millner writes in "Activism 
in the Harlem Renaissance," his 2002 
essay, it was the number one read on the 
reserve list at a Harlem branch of the New 
York Public Library. Everyone read it 
in 
private. When I read *Nigger Heaven* four 
years ago, I was ashamed to be seen with 
it, and I felt disgusted by it. But I have 
remained fascinated by its author. 

Poring over my Beinecke loot, I think 
that perhaps Van Vechten was right to ad-
dress his scrapbook viewers as "you." My 
fascination makes me feel as complicit in 
the making of the albums as the people 
who sent their sexual poems to "Carlo." 
Wood calls Van Vechten "ironic"—he 
certainly planned for the albums to cause 
a scandal. "Yale may not think so, but I'll 
be just jolly," he promises on one page. 
"Carl had a penchant for shocking peo-
ple," says Willis. He would have loved to 
see me fidget in my stuffy Beinecke chair.


**Title: THE FAMILY WE CHOOSE**
**Author: Sophia Lear**
**Page number(s): 34-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
PERSONAL ESSAY 
THE FAMILY WE CHOOSE 
ON SUNDAY, DECEMBER l, AT THE CE.."• 
TRAL Veterirury Hospital in Nc:\\ Ha\c:n, 
there are few patie-nts and a lot of bodtc:s. 
"lt'5 just been sad lately," D.midle, a vet 
technician, says v.ith a tired stgh in 
the open "Emergency Care" area in the 
hospital's basement. "It's 'cause the holi-
days are coming." she admtts, and, before 
I can open my mouth, she rurns back 
to her computer. I don't undt:ro.tand the 
connection. 

Instde the bright, linoleum emergency 
care area, a silver boom box on a shelf next 
to a swaying test tube tray has been play-
ing holiday songs, one after another, all 
day long. "Lt:r Your Da) Ek MelT}." "Win-
ter Wonderland." "Let it now." "White: 
Christmas." OutSide, the first now of the 
year-or freezing ram, nther-is falling 
in the early dusk. 

"Bet\\-een Tha.nksgivmg and Chnstmas 
\\e do a lot ot euthanasia," D r. Kris Gnu 
S3)S, picking up on my confusion. "Every 
Yl'ar. 

"\'lhy?" I ask. Over rhe course of one 
Jay, I ha\e seen ~even hypodermic needb 
filled \\ith a hot pink liquid, and 5even 
dead pets carried (if a cat) or v.heeled on a 
can (if a dog) down the hallway. I've seen 
three of them euthanized myself: "Dusty: 
"Kirtcn," and "Celeste." 

We seem to take more lives during the 
holidays, it occurs to me later. Our own, 
as suicide rates notoriously cltmb every 
year with the approach of the ~ew Year, 
and-as I dL\Cover 
anecdotally~ur 
pets'. Suicide statistia garner attention, I 
think, because we bclieH: Y.e understand 
them. 1he grating, unrelenting cheer of 
the season, the out-of-hanJ materialism, 
the stress of family gatherings, the y.c:ight 
of that annual charge to fix our Raws, htt 
w all in \"arying degrees. 

But pets? 

DURING A LULL IN ACTIVITY AT THE HOSPI-
TAl , I demand an explanation, and nurses 
Linda, Mary. and Trudy gather around 
to offer a fc:\\ theories. Visiting relatives 
make owners reevaluate the hassles of 
caring for an unhealthy pet. Big dogs do 
poorly in cold weather. "It's the end of the 
year," says Mary. shrugging. "On to new 
thing,." :-\o one can offer anything more 
certain than that. 

Whtle human euthanasia floats in the 
realm of Op-Ed pages, poliucal posruring. 
and passionate publtc debate, itS animal 
countetpan is much more matter-of-fact, 
sitting in a box of vials under the syringes. 
And the blunt posstbiliry of euthanasia 
tn the pet \\Orld makes the discussion of 
death almo.st unrc:cogmzably different. 

Righr-ro-die advocates portray human eu-
thanasia ~an alternative to the arrogance 
of the medkal prof..:ssion-the right to do 
what nature will ~hortly do anyway. For 
pers. the arrogance runs the other way, ~ 
we assume rhe duty of deciding when the 
suffering should scop. 

FOR MOST Pl-.T OWNERS, THE FIRST STEP 
to the animal hospital comes when they 
notice something's wrong. Thomas Ma-
son and his young ron were walking their 
nine-week-old American Bulldog. Dusry, 
along Long Bt:ach in Branford, when 
Dusty sniffed a mushroom and gobbled 
up another. Mr . .Mason assured his son 
that Du~ry. whom they'd brought home 
just rwo weeks earlier, would be 6ne. A 
day later, Ousry was shaking and couldn't 
stand up. She: started ro have seizures in 
• the car on the way to the hospital. 

Preparing w start on morning rounds 
with three other vets, Or. Laura McKay 
asks. "Do you want to scan with the sad 
or not so sad?" The consensus is sad, and 
Dusty is the first stop. Or. McKay rattl~ 
off her stat:.. Activated Clotting Tune 
(ACT) above 4000. Ammonia up. Glu-
cose in the toilet. ~This mushroom has 
fun nicknames," she says, ~like death an-
gel. destroyer angel." Dusty's liver is fail-
ing. "A single mushroom can kill a small 
child." she concludes. \Yle look and coo 
once more as Dusry raises her wrinkly in-
fant head. \Yie move on. 

A few hours later in a small office off 
the central F.R area, Dr. Grau hangs up 
the phone with Poison Control and 
makes a poury face. "In humans. we'd 
do a liver rransplam," Or. Grau says, ~bur 
we haven't gotten there for the animal 
world yer." 

THE LISE BI!TWEEI' PET A...;o CHILD OF-
TEN blurs for rhe serious animal lover. and 
the Animal Hospital is one place where 
this feeling is understood. "I deal with 
the same thing with my daughter," Dr. 
Grau ~ays. commiserating with an owner 
whose pug. Brittany, has allergies. Brit-
tany is wearing a rainbow sweater and has 
been dragging her "girly pares" across the 
living room floor. As she follows behind 
her daughter's epileptic golden rerriever, 
another woman half-jokes to me. "~fy 
granddaughter!" 

In the hospital files, patienrs are given 
April2008 
their owners' last names: "Ruby" Parter-
ron, or "Bravehearr" Fucci. "We began 
to long for the pirrer patter of little feet: 
reads a quote on a calendar hanging in 
the office, "so we bought a dog. \Ylell, it's 
cheaper, and you ger more feet." At home, 
I have caught my mom calling our my 
name to our ten-year-old Bernese Moun-
rain Dog, Marilla, "by accident." 

The distance between this hospital's 
patienrs and the human world, however, 
reveals itself in the ER. "Oh, man, this is 
disgusting," Dr. McKay says as she lacer-
ates a cyst on tbe back of a black car. "'lou 
smell terrible!" she continues as she works, 
saying something no pediatrician would 
ever dare in front of a diem. "Look, this 
eat's been snorting coke;' Linda jokes, 
holding down a black cat with white 
flecks around its nose, as another nurse 
gives him a shot. 

Pet:.' inabiliry to communicate their 
burrs only makes their mothers and fa-
thers more dependent on hospital sraff. 
As Dr. Grau and I enter room after room 
ro meet with shaken owners and their sick 
or hurt or dying pers, I keep expecting 
the owners to glare ar me for intruding at 
.~uch a personal rime. Instead, ~ soon as 
we enter, I become invisible. lhc paricms 
might patter over to sniff me, siz.c me up, 
or wag a tail, but the eyes of the owners 
immediately seize on Or. Grau. waiting to 
hear her words, as if from a prophet. 

"Perc does have plenty of stool in him," 
Dr. Grau tells Frank Hardy. a middle aged 
man brimming with emotion. "I knew 
it!" he r~ponds, throwing his hands up 
in rhe air. Dr. Grau speaks with rhe sooth-
ing voice of a kindergarten reacher. She 
explains what she has found. "He's got 
keystones in his urine," she sotys, "which 
means Perc has diabetes." Next she offers 
her advice for treatment, ending by em-
phasizing that "right now we want to get 
Percy feeling berrer first, before anything 
else." 

"That's wonderful," Hardy nods. kec:p-
ing it together, and follows her our of rhe 
room ro look at Petey's X-rays. 

OR. CRAU ENTERS CHECK-UP ROOM fOUR. 
where my mother and I sit waiting. She 
closes the door gently behind her. She 
w~ 
blue scrubs over a plump but sturdy 
frame, and her dark hair i.s pulled back 
from her warm face in a ponytail. Or. 
Grau, as I 6nd our a few weeks later, loves 
emergency veterinary work, lunch, and 
laughing. "I didn't do ir!" she exclaims, 
and then giggles, whenever a docror or 
nurse calls her name from across the room. 
When it's getting close ro rwo and lunch 
hasn't been ordered, she mock-shouts, 
"Never keep a fat girl from her lunch!" 

A heartfelt "rhar sucks" is her refrain for 
all the lows of the day, from discouraging 
blood test results to a cat just put down. 
She is the caring. competent elementary 
school teacher in the check up room, with 
an endearing penchant for naughty PG 
humor behind closed doors. 

MY FIRST TRIP TO THE ANIMAL. HOSPITAL 
was on November 11, when I called my 
mom about an Otlullo paper and found 
her choking back sobs on the other end. 
"She just collapsed," she said of Marilla. 
A neighbor had helped lift Marilla's sev-
enty-pound frame into the back of our 
Volvo station wagon, and my mom had 
rushed her to the animal hospital just a 
fe\\ blocks a\vay. 

In the parking lot, Marilla managed to 
get out of the car herself, and my mom 
wondered if she had overreacted. In-
side, however, the vet technician lifted 
up Marilla's black lips and pronounced, 
~She: has grey gums." Grey gums mean 
profuse internal bleeding. As the tech-
nician whisked Marilla away to the ER, 
the receptionist pushed a form in front of 
my mom. "Sign here," she said, "co begin 
emergency treatment." 

The news so far sounded grim. "I don't 
know what to do," my mom whispered 
over the phone. So I put down my paper 
and drove to the hospital a few miles away, 
ro see Marilla for perhaps the last rime, 
and, in a rare moment, to comfort my 
mom, instead of the other way around. 

"1 NEED TO TELL )'OU EXACTLY WHAT's 
going on," Dr. Grau says, her no-non 
sense cone powerful and soothing. "Then 
we can talk about what decisions you 
might need to make." Dr. Grau delivers 
information in calm. dige~tible chunks. 
~1arilla h bleeding into her abdomen and 
has a large mass there; the prognosis for 
rhese siruarions is never good. If the mass 
is confined to her spleen, the non-board-
cerrified surgeon on call can remove it. If 
it's on her liver, "he won't be able to deal 
with it." But he won't know until he opens 
her up, because ,\farilla"s internal bleeding 
blurs X-rap. An ultrasound would pin-
point the mas,, but this ho~pital doesn't 
have rhe equipment. We'd have to go to 
Norwalk, an hour's drive away. 

"Bur look," she says finally, in a tried 
and rrue formula I later come to recog· 
nize. "There arc: some things we: can do 
to just get a bit more: of a handle. Get 
her stable. Sec where: we: arc:." My mom 
and I nod, and Or. Grau leaves. "Isn't she 
wonderful?" my mom says hoarsely, and 
we are left sirring on the floor, stroking 
Marilla, who, be~ides brt.-athing unevenly. 
seems perfectly fine. 

MARILLA HAD THE Ol'f!R.-\110:>0 OVERSIGHT, 
and the: surgeon removed a grapefruiHized 
rumor from her spleen. My mom did nor 
blink at the $4,000 price mg of Marilla's 
blood work, X-rays, surgery, and post-op 
recuperation. Bur many do. Money is a 
touchy, ever-present subject at the animal 
hospital. Less than a quarter of pet owners 
have medical insurance, and .. most get it 
after they've had to spend a lor of money 
here," says Tracy, a nurse who presents fi-
nancial estimates to owners. 

OR. GRAU DOES NOT HOLD BACK PROM 
judging owners' tight-fisted behavior. 
"How would you like to get thrown twen-
ty feet in the air and get sent home with 
some Tylenol?" Dr. Grau fumes ro me 
when an owner decides ro forgo treatment 
for a dog who has been hit by a car. But 
she also spends much of her time reassur-
ing owners that sometimes euthanasia is 
the best--even if not the only-option. 

Around this time, I realize we could have 
put Marilla to sleep then and there and no 
one would have raised an eyebrow. 

"If you need someone to say, 'Is this OK 
to do?' I'm here ro say-'Ir is,"' Dr. Grau 
says quiedy on the phone to Mr. O'Brien 
(whose name has been changed), whose 
car, "Kinen: has a bladder full of stones 
for the third time. O'Brien decided to 
operate the first two times at two thou-
sand dollars a pop. Now Dr. Grau talks 
about qualiry of life, nor only the pet's 
but the family's. She reminds him that 
medicine offers "no guarantee," and then 
concludes, "I don't mean to sound crude, 
but there are so many cats in this world 
that need a home that don't have chronic 
medical problems." Pets are the family we 
choose, as a common saying goes, and Dr. 
Grau understands the hardnosed truth 
about choosing as much as the parr about 
family. 

"ARE YOU READY?" 
"Yeah." 
George Mason wears a puffy vest and 
sweatpants and talks with tough guy ani-
tude, but as Dr. Grau inserts the needle he 
looks up at the ceiling to hold back tears, 
stroking Dusty's four-pound body. 

I keep my eyes on Dusty. She seems al-


**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Sophia Ung**
**Page number(s): 37-38**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
most prenatal, too translucent, wrinkled, 
and small for this world. Her eyes droop 
closed, and she: looks like a Victorian im-
ag.: of death, pcacdul and asleep, as if her 
· time on earth were just a brief, harmless 
dream. Dr. Grau checks for a heartbeat. 
"Okay. she's gone," she: murmurs. ''I'm so 
sorry." Mason lowers his head and gravity 
take. over. The tears roll down his cheeks. 
Dr. Grau asks if he wantS to spend 
more time with Dusty's still-warm body. 
"No, no," Mason mumbles, wiping his 
eyes and sniffling. 
"It's not weird." Dr. Grau says, pierc-
ing the: mange: air of transition from fam-
ily member to dead animal that fills the 
room. 
"I know, I know," Mason says a bit 
defensively. "But I'm fine." He lifts his 
baseball cap up and down a few times and 
trudges down the hallway to the exit. 
Downstairs, Dr. Grau lays Dusty on a 
stainless steel table. "The cremation ser-
vice does a pick-up once a day," she says, 
and then walks away. With Dr. Grau 
gone:, I run my hand over Dusty. "It's not 
weird," I think, and feel relieved. 

THE SEXT DAY, A CAT SCREAMS FOR HIS UFE. 
Mr. O'Brien and his 
11-year-old 
daughter, Isabelle:, stand in the check-up 
room. As o;oon as Dr. Grau enters, Isabelle 
startS bawling fiercely. Kitten sits on the 
table. He: is a Halloween cat, his black fur 
so lustrous and dark it appears a siJvery 
blue as it catches the light, and his eyes 
are rwo large yellow globes. He looks alert 
and vigorous. 
Owners have several choices to make 
when putting down a pet: Whether or not 
to be present for the euthanasia, whether 
to cremate the body or take it home to 
bury. Bodies can be cremated individually 
and returned. or cremated co masse. 
As Isabelle: continues to sob, Mr. 
O'Brien delivers his family's answer: 
They don't want to be prc:sent for Kitten's 
death, bur they do want his body to bury 
at home:. "I just \'\o"ant to let you know, I 
treat each animal like it's my own," Dr. 
Grau sap as she scoops up Kitten. 
In the hubbub of the open ER down-
stairs, a few nurses offer Kitten some cat 
food in a red and white cardboard con-
tainer, a miniature version of the contain-
ers Cape Cod restaurants use to serve fried 
cLams or steamers. Kitten .sniffs the: food 
April2008 
and rurns away. "Oh come on, it's your 
last meal!" Dr. Grau begs. Kitten refuses. 
"Shhhh, pretty baby, it's okay," Linda 
coos as she holds Kitten's body down. Dr. 
Grau insertS the needle, and suddenly 
Kitten spits and screams. Not a howl or a 
hiss or any other word we use to describe 
non-human noises, but a real scream, ee-
rily high-pitched and otherworldly. He 
fights to rum his head back to his leg. 
where DL Grau is pushing the liquid 
through the needle. His body shakes. Fi-
nally, he goes limp. 
Dr. Grau and Linda look weary. I am 
shocked. Trudy picks up the body. "Now, 
don't you dace pee: on me!" Trudy warns 
as her under five-foot frame struggles to 
carry Kitten's weight. "Trudy, he's not go-
ing to pee on you!" Linda says, leaning 
on the metal operating table. "Oh, yeah," 
Trudy chuckles, heaving Kitten's body 
into a cardboard box. "I forgot." Kitten's 
head flops over the side of the box. Trudy 
pushes it back in. 

WHEN I WAS IN SECOND GRADE, MY PAR-
ents got a divorce. In retaliation, I gave an 
ultimatum to my mom: We get a dog or 
I get my ears pierced. I wanted a dog-
more than an-y-thing--but if the answer 
was no, as it had been for months and 
months, I just had to do somahing. 
This tactic did not budge her, so I threw 
a fit. I cried and cried and grew hysterical 
until finally I quieted down, and said, in 
the argument my mom still recalls as the 
one that shifted the tide, "Mama. You arc 
thinking of this dog as just a burden. But 
the truth is, you will love her, and then 
she won't feel like a burden ac all." I of-
fered my own presence in her life as an 
example. 
I brought Marilla into our lives, and 
though I still love her dearly, she now 
matters more to my mom than to me. I 
am about to graduate college, and I feel 
on the cusp of my adult life. Marilla is at 
home. 
After her surgery, Dr. Grau sent a chunk 
of Marilla's excised rumor to a specialist. 
It was malignant. A rough prognosis gives 
Marilla another four months; with che-
motherapy, perhaps a year. 
When I am home for dinner one night, 
Marilla rc:scs her chin on my feec under 
the table. We arc trying to weigh, as a fam-
ily, the pain of chemotherapy for Marilla 
against our own desire to have her around 
for as long as we can. And, of course, we 
cannot consult her in the decision. I lean 
down, stroke her ear, and her tail whaps 
against the dle floor. Her wishes are only 
as we imagine them. 
All I can firmly glean from my time at 
the Animal Hospital is that I want to be 
there when Marilla is cuthaniz.ed. I don't 
care what happens to her body. 


TN] 
Sophia uar, a smior in Ezra Stiks Co/kg~. is a 
smior ~dit4r nntrirus oj1NJ. 


**Title: ENDNOTE**
**Author:  J.J. Anan**
**Page number(s): 38**

AT 10 A.M. ON FEBRUAR\' I 5• PRECOCIOUS 
teenager~ and under-employed young 
adulr.s from acrms Connec.:cicut began to 
convene en masse in from of New Ha-
ven's BAR restaurant. Most of the v.omen 
seemed to have applied Sephora'~ entire 
make-up and perfume inventory prior to 
the pilgrimage. Some fumbled in hand-
bags for tissues, v. hile others smoked pink 
and turquoise p.teks of <.';a mel ultralights. 
The fur protruding from rheir c.:oars v.as 
on par with the decor of a Ukrainian 
hunting lodge. The smattering of men 
compensated for their low numbers with 
a variety of testosterone-dripping accesso-
ries: Energy drinks emblamncd with "No 
Fearn decals, abundant and unpredictably 
located facial piercings, panb c.:overed in 
NBA ream logos. Arrh•ing at the queue 
at half past noon, I felt a distinct lack of 
camaraderie emanating from the assem-
bled masses. Though I had bleac.:hcd and 
gelled my widm' 's peak and thrown on a 
tracksuit, I was anxioU5. Fear and loathing 
hung like Axe bod) spray in the chill win-
ter air. Bur thb unease was understand-
able. We v.ere all competing for the arne 
thing. We all wanted to be cast in MTV's 
7ht Rtall>."'or/d, ~son 21. 
Every kid blessed with tebision access 
during the past ten years harbors some 
38 
form of jungian collective consciousness 
based on a clip moorage from this show. 
We may go years without a relapse, but 
those images-scenes of hoc-rub fon-
dlings, of Rurhie collapsing naked in the 
sho,,er during the second Hav.aii epi-
sode-linger in the corners of our brains 
like kidney stones waiting to dislodge. 
\\'hen I first heard about the New Ha-
ven casting call, it had been years since 
I watched Tht &a/ World. But, right on 
schedule, some unchecked, hisrrionic af-
finiry for broadcasting myself into mil-
lions of American homes began to blos-
som in my gut. Fame was calling. I had to 
call back. 
After waiting about an hour in rhe cold, 
listening to a GMC Suburban pulsare 
Hor97 while parked running on the curb, 
I was called inside. The space teemed wirh 
chatty people in har.s. Sitting at a wooden 
table \\irh a pack of girls, I was handed 
an application. a pen. and a beer cozy ad-
verrhing Lacry the Cable Guy's new film, 
Witkss Prouction. Across from me, several 
ladies who appeared to have only recently 
hit puberty strategized about hov. to be.t 
fill out the form. 
"What's my best quality?" asked one. 
"You're honest," replied her friend. 
"What's my worst quality?" continued 
the first. 
~You're kind of a bitch." 
Finally, my table was summoned to 
the back of the restaurant for a group in-
terview. "lell us your most embarrassing 
moment," demanded the casting director. 
Someone. apparently. had fallen off of a 
guardrail while trying to have sex with a 
homeless person. Another had peed in 
her pants before a stadium full of Lenny 
Kravitz fans. After another 15 minutes 
of heinous personal anecdotes, we were 
told ro sum up our personalities with one 
word before leaving. 
"I'm a freak!" declared the first girl. 
"I'm promiscuous!" yelled the second. 
Faced with the prospect of condensing 
my menty years oflife into one or rwo syl-
lables, I choked. All around me, mascara-
swathed eye~ stared like bats in a damp 
cave. lhe ca.~ring director clicked her nails 
against the table. Finally. the moment of 
rrurh: "l'm ... single?" 

iJ.,, i.-11UZn. nSDpiJomorr m &rhky Co/kg~. is 
prwlumon manag"o~J. 

**Title: Michael Pollan**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 40**

Michael Pollan 
Contributing writer, the New York Times Magazine 
Knight Professor of Journalism. University of California, Berkeley 
Author of 
In Defense of Food: An Eater's Manifesto 
The Omnivore's Dilemma: A Natural History of Four Meals 
Ihe Botany of Desire: A Plant's--Eye View of the World 
A Place of My Own: The Education of an Amateur Builder 
Second Nature: A Gardener's Education 
Wednesday, April 23, 2008 
4pm: 
u. A Conversation \vith Michael Pollan," 
Master's Tea, Jonathan Edwards College, 100 Tower Parkway 
7pm: 
u.on The Plate and In The Garden: Nature Writing After 
\iVilderness," 
a reading and talk by Michael Pollan, 
Sheffield..-Sterling--Strathcona Hall (SSS), Room 114 
{entrance on Grove Street between Prospect Street and Hillhouse Avenue) 
Sponsored by the John Christophe Schlesinger \"isiOng \Vnter Fund and Jonathan Edwards College 

