Publication date: September 8, 2000
Volume: 33
Issue number: I

**MASTHEAD:**
- PUBLISHER: Shruti Adhar
- EDITOR-IN-CHIEF: Alan Schomfold
- MANAGING EDITORS: Jessica Bulman, A1rya Kammttz
- DESIGNER: Tatiana ]itltoff
- PRODUCTION MANAGER: judyMilkr
- BusiNEss MANAGER: Silpa Pmclxrla
- PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR: Whitney Grace
- ASSOCIATE EDITORS: Rmm Givony, Eric Rothfotkr
- RESEARCH DIRECTOR: Daniel Kunz,..Pkllln
- CIRCULATION AND SuBSCRIPTIONS MANAGERS: Maltilto Harunari, Bllllte WJson
- ASSOCIATE BusiNEss MANAGER: DavidNeway


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- We Don't Need No Education - Ronen Givony
- Seeds of Summer - Whimey Grace, Anya Kamenett
- Strange Bedfellows - Jessica Bulman
- Points of Departure
- Essay: New Haven, 40051 - Michaa G~rbu
- The Critical Angle: Literacy for the Literati - Alan Schomfo/d
- Endnote: Urban Outfitting - Eric Rothfodu


**Title: We Don't Need No Education**
**Author: Ronen Givony**
**Page number(s): 10**
Do~s Ytzks vying for fitkraL fonds compromis~ a Lib"aL ~ducation?


**Title: Seeds of Summer**
**Author: Whimey Grace, Anya Kamenett**
**Page number(s): 16**
Photos by Whimey Grace
Essay by Anya Kamenett


**Title: Strange Bedfellows**
**Author: Jessica Bulman**
**Page number(s): 20**
Whos shacking up with whom in tht tkbatt on pornography


**Title: Points of Departure**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 4**


**Title: Essay: New Haven, 40051**
**Author: Michaa G~rbu**
**Page number(s): 26**


**Title: The Critical Angle: Literacy for the Literati**
**Author: Alan Schomfo/d**
**Page number(s): 28**
r~vi~wing How to R~ad and Why by Harold Bloom


**Title: Endnote: Urban Outfitting**
**Author: Eric Rothfodu**
**Page number(s): 30**



**Money Train**
**Author: Dan Kurtis-Phelan**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
foR MORE THAN A GENERATION, mOSt com-
parisons of New Haven and Fairfield 
County-the expanse of pricey real estate 
that shields the Elm City from New York 
and is home to Greenwich and New 
Canaan-have highlighted the stark eco-
nomic disparities between one of the 
nation's ten poorest cities and its most 
exclusive hideaway. In the past two years, 
however, 
New Haven 
Mayor John 
DeStefano, Jr. has increasingly compared 
his city and the suburb on other grounds. 
He points to Fairfield County as a vision of 
New Haven's furure, a sign of what's to 
come for his economically depressed city. 
Central to DeStefano's plan is Acela, 
Amtrak's new high-speed rail service, which 
wiU cut travel rime to New York City down 
to roughly one hour. In past monchs, the 
train's development has been plagued by 
lengthy delays, technical problems, and, 
most recently, allegations of fraud. For the 
moment, Amtrak is remaining tight-lipped 
about the immediate future of this $2. bil-
lion project, reluctant to divulge informa-
tion regarding the service's prices and 
schedule. 

Nonetheless, 
many 
New 
Haveners are not hesitating to yoke their 
city's fortunes to an iron horse that has yet 
to move. Since the announcement of che 
buller train's eventual installation, Acela has 
figured prominently in the city's develop-
ment strategy, as evidenced by a several-
million-dollar upgrade of the New Haven 
train station. 

By bringing New Haven within an 
hour of New York City, Acela has the 
potential to make the city an attractive 
alternative for high-end commuters fleeing 
Fairfield County and its astronomical 
property values. The dilapidated metropo-
lis could become a virtual suburb--a "bed-
room community" of New York and even 
Boston. This influx, according to the ser-
vice's optimistic proponents, would bring a 
much-needed infusion of cash and capital 
to New Haven's long-ailing economy. Yale 
officials agree, and are salivating at the 
prospect of using the school's proximity to 
Manhattan as a selling point for srudenrs 
and professors. Faculty spouses can more 
easily work in New York while living in 
New Haven, and professors can make their 
home in New York and still teach at the 
University. 

While supporters see this migrarion as 
the path to urban developmenc and revital-
iurion, the plan's detractors srudely refer tO 
it as suburbaniution and question whether 
it will benefit New Haven at the expense of 
those who currently live here. Plans to do 
away with many of New Haven's crum-
bling public housing projecrs, including 
those on Church Street South-situated 
directly across from the train srarion-are a 
sign to some that a process of gentrification 
is already underway. Naysayers argue that 
Acela will send property values skyrocket-
ing and reorient commercial areas to mid-
dle- and upper-class commuters instead of 
the city's current urban base. There is a 
nagging fear that New Haven will go the 
way of Stamford, where cenrraJized gentri-
fication allegedly forced poorer residentS to 
move into suburbs and neighboring ciries 
like Bridgeport. "We are meeting people 
every day who are being pushed out [of 
New Haven]," says community organizer 
Andrea Cole. "There is every indicarion 
that there is an effort to create an upper-
class, white downtown area." DeStefano's 
vision of New Haven's development seems 
desperately narrow to detractors, who 
charge that he is aiming to create a wealthy 
downtown while ignoring New Haven's 
poorer and predominantly minority resi-
dentS. Opponents argue that these two 
aspects of development-gentrification 
and poverty alleviation, when not defined 
as simply forcing the poor our of the city's 
boundaries--are mutually exclusive. 

With the advent of Acela, New Haven 
hopes co be within reach of something 
more than New York City, something it 
desperately needs: money. Naturally, this 
blessing does not come without a proviso. 
T he city must welcome those who have 
money if it wants any piece of it, and that 
means gentrification-a posh train starion 
and an upscale downtown. But the ques-
tion remains whether this version of revi-
taliution destroys the city we know in an 
efforr to save it, pushing out those residents 
who most need irs benefits. New Haven 
has yet to prove that it can walk the line 
between development and virtual destruc-
tion, saving itself without becoming a copy 
of irs wealthier neighbors to the west. 


**CORRECTION**
**Author: The Editors of TNJ**

In Anya Kamenen's article "Carolina 
on my Mind" in issue 32.5 ofTNJ, Yale 
alumnus Josh Kagan was mistakenly 
identified as "a native southerner." He 
is from Albany, NY. We sincerely apol-
ogize for the error. 


**Eli Bucks**
**Author: Don Tontipiaphol**
**Page number(s): 5**

THERE'S A LOT OP TALK THESE DAYS about a 
Yale graduate in the White House. Barring 
a political avalanche, soon the Executive 
Branch will wear Old Blue. But the candi-
dates aren't the only Yalies getting involved 
in politics this election year. The Yale 
Corporation, the Universiry's highest exec-
utive body, has been staying politically 
active as well. In many cases, members of 
the Corporation have been putting their 
money where most ochers can only put 
their mouths. 

One would imagine that one of the 
world's wealthiest universities would have 
atereorypically conservative trustees, but 
GOP benefactors, against conventional wis-
dom, constitute the minoriry of the 
Corporacion. 

Diana 
Brooks, 
oust 
President and CEO of Sotheby's Holdings. 
contributed $1,000 dollars co John Mc.Cain 
and George W. Bush each. Forced &om 
top of one of the world's wealthiest auc:Doo 
houses under charges of pri~ 
Brooks's donations stopped after Januarf 
2.000. William Reilly, former Direaor of 
the Environmental Protection Agen 
aJ.o 
turned out to be a generous supporte of 
GOP hopefuls. He donated $r,ooo to the re 
election campaign of Senator Richard 
Lugar (R-Indiana), the failed 1996 candi-
date for the presidential nomination. Reilly 
also gave $1,000 co Bush's campaign as well 
as another $2,000 co various Republican 
candidates for the House and Senate 
throughout the country. Ro~ Betts, 
President of Silver Screen Mal"if'8Bb1ent, a 
6lm production company, made 
eorge 
W's war chest $2,000 richer, While Dr. 
Benjamin Carson of the ohns ~~ 
Medi 
investment firm, shelled out $1,000 to 
presidential hopeful Bill Bradley and 
another $3,000 ro various Democratic con-
gressional and senatorial campaigns, most 
notably fellow alumna Hilary Rodham 
Clinton's in New York. Holcombe T. 
Green, CEO ofWestPoint Stevens and a Yale 
School of An patron, gave $1,000 to Bill 
Bradley and a hefty $1o,ooo in soft-money 
contributions 
to 
the 
Democratic 
Congressional Committee, a national elec-
toral PAC. Charles Ellis, Managing Parmer 
of Greenwich Associates, an investment 
consulting firm, also gave $1,000 to 
Bradley's 
campaign, 
while 
former 
Baltimore mayor Kurt Schmoke donated 
$500 to Hillary Clinton and $250 co Elijah 
Cu~ a Maryland Democrat run-
ning fW <iongress. Hillary Clinton also 
receive<ta 2,000 contribution from Linda 
Mason, (llaitroan of Bright Horizons 
.-liiU-a-. ~ 
a 
specializing in 
ear y childlaood e~ 
But_aoc all the 
ors split along 
parry 
Frances B · 
e, Executive 
Direct~ of the Natural 
ces Defense 
Councjl. an environm 
1 advocacy 
group, JP.I"e $1,750 to Senator Lincoln 
Chafeq (It-Rhode Island). Apparently, 
C:hafeej hOlds a certain charm for the 
ous.. Yale 
family: 
Four 
different 
ea..ear;. made donations totalling $6,750 
.-Ia¥ !""''P'i&P Frances Beinecke has also 
~· 
to ao Mil, 
Democratic Parry 
in Pe~ 
Sbe 
$300 to Peter 
Koscm 
presentative 
who ha 
the Senate 
:"~~--tally con-
i'fli!JIIII!IIIAtt side of 
appoineird 
bench by 
Clinton, his gratitude hasn't come across in 
financial support. David Gergen, Editor-
at-Large of us N~s and World RqJort, has-
n't spent any money on this year's cam-
paigns either. Formerly an advisor to 
Presidents Nixon, Ford, Reagan, and 
Clinton, Gergen probably would not want 
to make too explicit any party affiliation. 
Newly named trustee Janet Yellen, an econ-
omist at uc-Berkeley, has also abstained 
from donating this year. The only other 
Corporation members with no record of 
u.s. campaign contributions are those who 
couldn't give anyway-Right Reverend 
Victoria Matthews, the first female bishop 
in Canada, and Jaime Serra, Mexico's for-
mer Minister of Commerce, who are both 
foreign citizens. 

The campaign contribution data was 
downloaded from the Federal Election 
Commission on August 3, 2000, and com-
piled by the Center for Responsive Politics, 
an independent watch-dog organization. 


**The House in the Hill**
**Author:  (Not specified)**
**Page number(s): 6**

AT THE CESAR JEREZ CATHoLic WoRKER 
HousE in the Hill neighborhood of New 
Haven, a small group of mosdy college-
educated individuals lives in voluntary 
poverty, dedicating their time to serving 
the needs of the neighborhood. They 
engage in political activism to challenge 
what they see as the glorification of wealth, 
itS concentration in the hands of a few, and 
itS use to fund violent or wasteful policies. 
"We're really about non-violent revolution 
from the perspective of personalism [the 
belief that each person has a responsibility 
to work for the freedom and dignity of oth-
ers]," says Mark Colville, a founder of the 
Catholic Worker House in New Haven. 

For nearly 70 years the Catholic Worker 
Movement has been growing, and those 
involved believe that by building relation-
ships with the poor and sharing with others 
the fruitS of a good education, people can 
transform society. But is this mode of living 
the best use of an education to promote 
change? 

Today there are over 140 Catholic 
Worker Houses and communes in the 
United States. Colville and his wife Luz 
founded the New Haven Catholic Worker 
House in July 1994. In order tO pass on to 
their children their deep belief in the digni-
ty of all people, the Colvilles quit their jobs 
and moved to Rosette Street in the impov-
erished Hill neighborhood to begin a bouse 
of hospitality where anyone in need is wel-
come. 

Many of the values that moved the 
Colvilles to found the house were first 
articulated in 1933 by Dorothy Day, a radi-
cal leftist journalist, and Peter Maurin, a 
French immigrant who saw in Catholic 
social teachings a call for societal transfor-
mation. They began to publish The 
Catholic WOrker, a newspaper reporting on 
struggles for social justice both here and 
abroad. Their teachings inspired followers 
to form f.ums, communes, and houses of 
hospitality, which together comprise a 
deliberately decentralized movement. 

T he Colvilles wanted to live in a 
Catholic Worker House in solidarity with 
the poor, as Mark says, "to walk with them 
for a while and see what became of that." 
The House subsistS on donations from 
restaurantS and supermarketS, and any food 
above and beyond the needs of the 
Colvilles and the other house occupantS is 
distributed to the community. All mone-
tary income goes into a collective fund; no 
one living in the house receives regular 
wages. Over time, residentS in the neigh-
borhood have recognized the house as a 
place to go for help, a free meal, or a place 
to stay for a few days. 

Colville explains that there is a deep 
belief in Catholic Worker communities 
that possessions should be held in com-
mon. Things people have beyond what 
they need, he says, are stolen from the poor 
and rightfully belong ro them. Therefore, 
giving to the needy is not a remarkable act: 
It is to be expected. Colville claims that 
being in a position to perform "works of 
mercy" -regular actS that physically and 
spiritually aid others, such as teaching or 
caring for the sick-is itself a privilege, one 
that has to be earned and justified by strug~ 
gling publicly against injustice. Thus, for 
him, non-violent political activism, such as 
protesting us sanctions in Iraq or refusing



**The Catholic Worker Movement and the Question of Education**
**Author: Nadia Sussman**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
to pay federal taxes because, he claims, they 
fund war-making, is closely connected to 
community se~ce, and is necessary to 
~nsure that charitable works do not simply 
patch up the holes of a social system that 
leaves millions destitute, Colville explains. 


The convictions of Catholic Worker 
House members appeal to many college 
activists, especially those in depressed areas 
who have difficulty reconciling their costly 
educations at expensive schools with the 
conditions that surround them. Brant, a 
recent graduate of Fairfield University, is 
one of several college students who have 
chosen to reside in the Cesar Jerez House 
over the past six years. Students say they 
have not only shared the experience of vol-
untary poverty and service, but have also 
been challenged to think deeply about the 
value of their education. The Colvilles and 
others in the Catholic Worker Movement 
question the common perception of educa-
tion as a vehicle for self-advancement. 
"There's a great societal pull to use educa-
tion for personal power in an oppressive 
way," asserts Mark. "In this society we're 
very isolated and insulated. The system 
leads us to not be in connection with other 
people." In contrast, Colville believes that 
we have a responsibility to put our educa-
tion, as a valuable possession, to the service 
of others in a concrete way, and he encour-
ages students to find a means to do so. 
But is it really possible to share a 
$130,ooo education with others, and is 
moving into a community such as the 
Cesar Jerez house the best way to do so? 
Students agree that finding a concrete 
means of sharing one's education is not 
always easy. Yale senior Johnny Scafidi, 
who spent the summer in the house, found 
that living there and having lengthy con-
versations with people in the community 
about philosophy and theology were valu-
able means of imparting some of what he 
had learned in college. He says that he, too, 
gained a great deal from hearing stories of 
the people around him. Mackenzie Baris, 
another Yale senior, found it more difficult 
at times to apply her Yale education in a 
practical manner, but she still felt that her 


education contributed to the life of the 
community: "What I think I shared with 
the people in the community, especially the 
children, was that this !Ond of education is 
worthwhile and possible. It's important for 
kids to see that Yale students would want to 
live on their street." 
-Nadia Sussman


**Endowed Chairs at Yale: A Question of Academic Control**
**Author: Sara Hirschhorn**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

Charity 
HAVE A COUPLE MILLION DOLLARS burning 
a hole in your pocket? If so, you just might 
consider immortalizing your family name 
and endowing a Yale professorship. But if 
this price seems too good to be true, realize 
that once the check is signed, the plaque is 
put up on the wall, and Yale taps the last 
tack into the splendid new George W. Bush 
Neuropharmacology Chair, you lose any 
say in who sits in it. 

Created by individual and group 
donations of a minimum of $2.5 million, 
endowed chairs create permanent posts for 
professors within certain departments or 
disciplines. Often witness to remarkable 
succeSsions, some chairs have indeed been 
the seats of power in this school's history. 
Most remarkably, the Sterling Chair has 
been held by 159 former and current pro-
fessors, 
including historian Jonathan 
Spence and Nobel Prize-winning molecular 
biologist Sidney Altman. But fame does 
not come cheap-it cost William Sterling 
$5 million to establish the chair back in 
1918, and that was when a million dollars 
still meant something. 
More recent 
endowments include the Vincent J. Scully 
History of Art Chair, given by the 
Archimedes Association of the Class of 1958 
alumni in honor of the popular professor, 
and the Maynard Mack Chair, created in 
1998 by the bequest of an anonymous 
donor in honor of the former Sterling 
chair holder. 

Millions of dollars are nothing ro 
sneeze at-even at Yale. An endowed pro-
fessor's salary and annual research stipend 
can be put to basic departmental improve-
ments once their salary is being paid by 
outside donors. And open chairs can also 
suengthen departments by enticing new 
faculry with hopes of a future endowed 
professorship and its benefits. Even if 
Sterling chairholders receive only a paluy 
$4,000 a year for research, every dollar still 
counts. 

Despite all this, though, Yale won't 
always take your money. As donors vie for 
the opportunity to endow a permanent 
chair-and attach their name to it forev-
er-the University is caught in the dilem-
ma of accepting money in exchange for 
academic control. In a few recent instances, 
the University has held onto its autonomy 
and turned down 'bffers to create chairs. 
When gay rightS and AlOS activist Larry 
Kramer (BR '57) offered two profesorships 
in Gay and Lesbian Studies, the donation 
was rejected on the grounds that the acad-
emic worth of the subject is still being 
explored. In 1991, the Bass family attempt-
ed to endow University-wide chairs in 
Western Civilization, but Yale returned the 
money when the family demanded a say in 
selecting scholars to hold the chairs. 

The issues surrounding new chairs are 
highly politicized, and Yale is cautious 
about jeopardizing its academic integrity. 
For better or worse, Yale has passed up 
opportunities both to be at the forefront of 
scholarship in emerging fields and to bol-
ster a classical curriculum. So while a new 
professorship might make a great stoclcing-
stuffer for that special someone come 
December, it probably is not the best way 
to remold the face of American higher edu-
cation. Caveat emptor! 
--Sara Hirschhorn


S2PT£MBP.R 8, 2000 
Featuring the finest select1on o 
etter eye wear at guaranteed lowest prices. 
•comprehensive eye exams 
•contact lenses 
•fashion eye wear 
Why is Spector Eye Care 
New Haven 's best? 
$25 Eye ~~ X'-liTl 
' 
1 ).l.~ c_, q' 
(_~!rtf • 
~)ht rr• 
t 
A ' , 
PHOr~E ,,>()" (f'.( /111 • St,, 1t ·" n '" 
,H''-, A• , ;! •
Moving to our New Home in September 
Rimage Salon & Spa 
121 o Chapel St. 
562-HAIR or 776-4248 
www. RimageSalon.com 
Nationally Trained Colour Specialists 


i~ O=O&lRm& 
J a p a n ese R est a u rant 
* BEST JAPANESE - State Runner-Up 
CT Magazzn~ R~aekrs Chou·~ PoLL I998-2oou 
* BEST JAPANESE - N~ Haven County 
CT 
~ R~a&Urs ' C/u)lc~ Poll r998-2oou 
Dinner... S unday - Thursday s:oo pnl - 9:30pm 
t'nday - Sacurday 4 : 4 ~ pm - 10:00 pm 
Sus& 
Lunch... 
M o nday - 1-'raday 11: 30 an~
- 2 :Jo pm 
Cate. 
1 206 Dixwell Avenue. Hamden 
l)JJg 
203-28"1 -4542 
FAX 203-407-1651 
www.hamacl.com



**Title: E DoN'T EED**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
E DoN'T 
EED 
Does Yale's vying for federal funds 
Every election must have an issue, and chis year's seems ro ! 
be education. Smooching babies and visiting preschools is 
no longer enough; this season, even George W. Bush is 
using phrases like "the soft bigotry of low expectations" 
to describe the stare of American education. Accordi~
· ng 
• .. 
to his campaign staff, Bush has visited some roo schools 
f 
and colleges around the country since beginning his 
run 14 months ago. Nor to be outdone, his oppo-
nent AJ Gore has identified "revolutionary 
• , .. 
- ~ '• · ' 
improvements in our schools" as "the number 
one priority for the nation." Four years afrer 
Bob Dole planned to shut down the 
Department of Education and five years 
. 
after Congress shut down the govern-
ment, in part because of disputes 
over education spending, we 
find 
ourselves 
today 
.. 
1 , 
debating only how much mor~ money the federal government 
should throw at our schools. The candidates and their parties are 
both vying, in a student council election kind of way, for the role of 
education's most tireless advocate. To hear the sound bites from this 
most recent election, one might well think the federal government 
had only recently decided that education was something worth 
spending money on. 

But, for universities at least, the opposite is true. This year, 
federal and state government will deliver over $35 billion worth of 
grants to colleges and universities already grown wealthy on 
decades of research contracts and robust endowments. Johns 
·~ ·.,: ' '\\ , Hopkins, far and away the nation's largest recipient of feder-
• • • ~ • • 1 
\ 
a! science funding, made just under a cool $750 million-
more than most universities' entire endowments-in fis-
cal year 1998. T he University ofWashington, a distant 
but no less impressive second, netted $380 million for 
the year, while 20 other schools received more than 
$200 million each for the same period. 

And yet, in spite of all this money, 
universities have reason to believe 
~ that the good times may not last. 
~ America has never loved its 
eggheads; today, many of those 
working within the academy 
do so at the whim of 
to 
own. 
Departments 
of 
science, especially, 
depend more on 
grant and contract 
money provided by 
federal funding than 
on any other source 


**Title: 0 EDUCATION compromise a liberal education?**
**Author: By Ronen Givony**
**Page number(s): 11**

0 EDUCATION 
compromise a liberal education? 
By Ronen Givony 
Over the past 25 years, as competitions for grant money have 
grown fiercer and more federal grant programs have withered in the 
name of balanced budgets, many schools have moved to better posi-
tion themselves within the political arena. Following the lead of 
corporate America, universities have formed associations and enlist-
ed lobbyists to ensure their share of lucrative gov-
ernment research contracts. Borrowing a tactic of 
corporate culture, they have begun to think of 
their "products" -
learning and research-as a 
kind of asset, measurable in dollar amounts and 
traditional conceJ:ltions of risk and return. They 
speak of federal funding of medical research as an 
investment, of education as a cog in the wheel of 
economic prosperity. To justify their annual 
research budgets, universities today are forced to 
sell their product, much like corporate lobbyists 
market their industries, as deserving of federal dollars and contracts. 
The practice of university lobbying says a great deal about the stakes 
and rules of the research spending game today, about the image that 
universities must present, and about the strategies they use to ensure 
funding in a time of fiscal conservatism. 

In the past three decades, no university has had a more inti-
mate relationship with the leaders of the federal government than 
Yale, and few have benefited more consistently from the blue-chip 
stock of reputation. But Yale's successes are neither paraded nor 
particularly well-known to those outside the University communi-
ty. Plenty of schools receive considerably more research money 
than Yale; schools such as Caltech and M.I.T. have long been known 
as important centers for federal and especially defense-related 
research. 

Still others spend dramatically more on lobbying and 
campaign contributions. Yale is significant, rather, for the singular 
efficiency of its rather modest efforts, and for the model it sets for 
universities of its lcind-schools with an avowed commitment to a 
liberal arts education whose aims in scholarship might seem at odds 
with the rules of the federal spending game. 

A river of federal money runs through the Yale campus. It begins 
with the School of Medicine and its affiliates on the southern side 
of town, pushes north to the Schools of Art, Architecture, and 
Drama, winds its way around Prospect and Hillhouse, and proceeds 
steadily toward Science Hill and the School of Forestry. Along the 
way it makes numerous detours· in departments 
of the physical, natural, and political sciences; in 
economics, international relations, and area 
studies; in math and computer science; and even-
tually all the way down to the most quotidian 
aspects ofYale student life, like e-mail access via 
high-speed network connections. In the words 
of one University official, "Yale couldn't be what 
it is today if it were relying just on endowment 
income and tuition." 

In the words of one 
University official, «Yale 
couldn,t be what it is 
today if it were relying 
just on endowment 
income and tuition., 

The numbers are impressive. For fiscal year 
1998, Yale received $233 million in grant and contracts, or "spon-
sored agreement income," from Washington. By 1999, this figure 
had risen to $244 million, and in 2000, to over $260 million. 

According to the Office of Finance and Administration, Yale pro-
jects federal revenues of some $284 million and a steady growth rate 
of 7·9 percent for fiscal year 2001. The School of Medicine, which 
accounts for about 50 percent of the University's budget, receives 
approximately 75 percent of Yale's grant income. And while the 
National Institutes of H ealth (NIH) continue to provide the lion's 
share of these revenues ($190 million in 1999), other agencies-
including the Departments of Energy, Defense, and Education-
still provide $40 million on an annual basis. 

Yale received its first offer of government money in 1919, when 
the u.s. Interdepartmental Social Hygiene Board offered the School 
of Medicine--then the "Medical Department" -a check for $5,100 
to participate in research activities. 


--- Page 12 ---

**Title: The Price of Progress**
**Author: Roni Givony**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
of decoration, the space better used for 
purposes of real political dealings. 
Jacob's job description is straightforward. 

As Director of Government 
Relations for the University, he oversees 
and guides Yale's lobbying efforts 
with federal authorities in 
Yale's 
diet of federal money. 
As rhe chief in-
house lobbyist for one of America's most 
prominent universities, Jacob's task is to 
convince government of the need for an 
expanded investment in intellectual life. 
To partisans of small government and 
Washington . 
Jacob 
tracks issues befor~ 
Congress and the 
President that 
affect Yale in 
any 
way-
re searc h 
opportun i-
ties 
and 
po te nt ia l 
risks, budget 
debates, and 
controversy 
over everything 
from intellectual 
property and money 
for student loans to 
immigration 
policies that 
affect Yale's international students and 
scholars. He meets with representatives in 
Congress and federal agencies, never to dis-
cuss individual research grants but rather to 
lobby for larger research appropriations in 
general, from which Yale can expect to 
profit. Jacob also keeps up con nections 
with Connecticut'~ congressional delega-
tion, and especially with the "Yale delega-
tion" -
the 19 representatives and senators 
who graduated from Yale and whose doors, 
he says, are "that much more open to us 
when we need them." In addition to these 
duties, Jacob maintains ties with the gov-
ernment relations staffs of other research 
universities and a n umber of associations 
(most prominently the Association of 
American Universities) that exist to lobby 
on behalf of the education industry. 

According to mandatory lobbying 
rtpons filed with the C lerk of the House of 
Representatives, Jacob's office spends in the 
neighborhood of $3oo,o00-$38o,ooo each 
~ 
tracking issues and trends of concern 
to the University community. Jacob also 
relies upon Yale faculty an d administration, 
with whom he frequently travels to 
Washington for "common lobbying days" 
to discuss science and humanities policy 
with elected officials and federal agencies. 

Less straightforward are the strategies 
Jacob pursues in 9'1ainraining Yale's steady 
SIP'I'I.t.mER 8, 2000 
arts and humani-
ties. To advocates 
of 
private 
fundraising and 
cost control, he 
m ust show that 
the public stands 
to gain much from 
the 
millions 
set 
aside every year for 
research and develop-
ment in esoterica. Not an 
easy task before the Congress 
that nearly killed off the National 
Endowment for the Arts for handing out 
taxpayer money to "self-proclaimed 'artists' 
whose mentality is just so much flotsam 
floating around in a sewer," in the words of 
Senator Jesse Helms. 

Jacob came to Yale in January 1995, a move 
that says something about recent develop-
ments in the dealings between government 
and academia. When Congress changed 
hands in 1994, a number of universities 
realized that many representatives who had 
long championed universities and research 
were now gone. 
After Newt Gingrich's 
notorious Contract with America, the 
peaceful relationship that existed between 
universities and the government changed 
greatly. 
Universities found themselves in 
need of new champions and acted accord-
ingly. 

Shortly after Jacob became Associate 
Vice President for Federal Relations in the 
Office of the General Counsel--only the 
second person to hold the position-Yale 
rook early steps to reestablish its position 
with Washington. The University stepped 
up its lobbying efforts and became a found-
ing member of a group called the Science 
Coalition, an alliance of 65 dues-paying 
research universities and several hundred 
scientific societies and professional associa-
tions. The Science Coalition aims to find 


**Title: Seeds of Summer**
**Author: Anya Kamenetz**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
It is a tranquil, sunny Sunday in June
and people of all ages, sizes, and colors
pack the city lawn. Retirees in wheel-
chairs sit in the shade; giggling Puerto
Rican and Dominican girls practice
hula-hooping in the sun; dreadlocked
students relax next to their mountain
bikes; bearded men chat next to their
Harleys. Spicy scents waft from the
Thai and Caribbean food stands lin-
ing the sidewalk. On a stage at the
east end, a 13 -member salsa band
from Cuba is setting up, and saxo-
phone notes rise like bright banners
into the blue sky. Across the park is
an even more coloiful sight: four
men and four women in harlequin
costume sway in unison atop flex-
ible thirty-foot poles, dancing in
the breeze like palm trees. They
are Strange Fruit, a perfor-
mance group from Australia.
Everyone seems to be
enjoying the beautiful
summer day in New
Haven.


Yes, this is
New Haven, not New
York, or San Francisco, or
Sydney. For the past five years, the
International Festival of Arts and Ideas
has tran~formed our city with a sweeping
array of cultural offerings. This year the festi-
val ran from June I 6 to July 1 and included hun-
dreds of performances and events in every conceiv-
able category: classical, jazz, pop, and world mllsic;
opera. ballet, and modem dance: drama from Shakespeare
to street improvisation; film; visual arts; readings and spoken
lectures and .\)'mposia: historical tours; and the simply unc/assifi
Fruit. for example). For the first time, the festival expa~uled illlo
and New London. But the heart of the proceedings remained the performances
the New Haven Green.
For New Haven's transient population of Yale
students who think of their university as the domi-
nant, if not only. culwral institution in New Haven, it
can be amazing to see what goes on while they're
out of town. "It's so good to see all kinds of peo-
ple on the Green. It's very different/rom how it
looks when students are here," said senior 7}'
Hudson, who came back to New Haven
for the weekend. "/ hope the festival
will begin to change people's
impressions
about
New
Haven ...


**Title:  (Untitled)**
**Page number(s): 18**

Indeed, for people interested in New Haven, the effect the festival is having on the city is as exciting as the
artists drawn from all over the world. Gabe Freiman, a junior, served as Assistant Volunteer Coordinator for the
festival. I found him in the volunteer headquarters in the basement of the New Haven Free Public Library,
putting together a puzzle with a petformance artist from England and a 13-year-old volunteer. Freiman, who
finds working with New Haven youth to be the most rewarding part of his job, estimates the festival this summer
had 50 volunteers between the ages of 10 and 17, out of 300 total. "This is the first year they've had kids to vol-
unteer like this. We had kids coming in every day, saying 'Can we volunteer, and ifwe can't volunteer, can we
work?'" The young volunteers served as ushers and assistant stagehands for events, ran messages and errands,
picked up trash on the Green, staffed the information booth and folded endless brochures. Their only rewards
were free admission to some events and at-shirt. "They wear their shirt sort of like a badge," Freiman said. "We
were reserving the mediums just for the kids, and we ran om."
What motivated these inner-city kids to give up their summer to promote the arts? It seems amazingly sim-
ple. ''/started doing it to be a good citizen,'' said Deion Ross. 13, wlio was posted at the information booth with
a walkie-talkie. "I know that sounds cheesy, but it's true. Also, it gives me something to do in the summer." The
Wilbur Cross student is a buddi118 actor at the Educational Center
for the Arts, where 116
• But it was his own
idea to
Miter side of New
«hoes his senti-
is volunteering



**Title: The Strange Fruits and Macadams of the Future**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
··we couldn't have done it without till.' {young 
\'Oiunteer.\]." said Susan Tamulevitch, the festival's 
\1olumeer Coordinator. "/ think it's really important that 
feel ·welcome here. This is t/u•ir city and this is their 
iml." Tamulel-·itch and others who work with the festival 
an opportunity to build the kids' natural interest and to 
reach eren more kids with all the resources the festival has to 
offn: ''There are ways to broaden {the kids' experience]," 
Tallwlel•itch said. "In exchange for working. or along with work-
in~./the kids] could get an educational experience that paral-
lels the festival.'' This is already happening on a small scale, 
said Christine Franquemont, the festival's Director of 
Del•elopment. ''One of our pe1:{"Jrmance 
~roups ,.,·as Macadam, a hip-hop dance 
group ofstreet kids from Paris who are just 
the age (~{our ,·olunteers. We arranged to 
gl't some of the \'olumeers into the peJfor-
mance workshops with them. and [the stu-
delll.\ · j 
enthusiasm 
was 
ama:ing. 
Perlwps this cross-culmral encounter 
will he the seed of the Stran~e 
Fruits and Macadams of rhe 
fwure. 


**Title: Pornography at Yale**
**Page number(s): 20-21**

Q ne nippy February night last winter, I donned my hat 
and scarf and set our for News Haven on a mission: to 
buy a copy of Hustkr magazine. Normally, Hustkr and other 
porn magazines would never have graced my shelves, stuffed as 
they were with books from classes such as Constitutional Law and 
The History of Feminist Thought and materials acquired the 
previous summer during an internship at the feminist magazine 
Ms. Bur I had to make an exception. The next day, I was ro 
interview Larry Flynt, the founder and publisher of Hustkr, 
and I'd yet to see a copy of his infamous magazine. 
Walking down Chapel Street, I felt ar once absurd and 
exhilarated. I'm not a fan of Flynt, but nonetheless I found the 
opportunity to interview a celebrity exciting. 
I entered News 
Haven and approached the porn section, where a motley group of 
men flipped through magazines. Others nervously avoided the 
area, pretending to study car and sports magazines, while darting 
eyes exposed their real interest. I was definitely out of place as I 
scanned the titles that peeked out &om tall plastic shields. 
When I found a copy of Hustkr, I paused to consider 
the purchase. On the one hand, I value free speech too 
highly, and hate censorship too much, to support a 
ban on pornography. On the other hand, I hold 
pornography responsible for objectifying and 
harming women and didn't want to make a $7.99 
contribution to the industry. As I approached 
the counter, my feminist instincts went into over· 
drive, and I grabbed a nearby copy of Ms.-
whether to offset my guilt about supporting 
Hustkr, or because I wanted the guy behind the 
counter to know that this was for research, I'm 
not sure. In any case, I paid for the magazines, 
received the brown paper bag that screamed ,
"PoRN" and set off back ro my dorm. 
Larry Flynt was visiting Yale for the first of four 
master's teas on pornography sponsored by Calhoun 
College. 
Calhoun Master William Sledge and 
Associate Master Betsy Sledge also invited American Civil 


Liberties Union (ACLU) President and law professor Nadine 
Strossen, former pornography actress Linda Boreman-betrer 
known as Linda Lovelace-and her attorney, law professor 
Catharine MacKinnon. Calhoun's guests have four of the loudest 
voices in the nation's pornography debate, and Yale had the rare 
honor of having them all speak :1~ part of a single series at a time 
when discussions of pornography can be found everywhere, from 
Internet chatrooms co Capitol Hill to university classrooms. The 
$ro billion-a-year pornography industry-larger than the music 
and movie industries combined-has been the subject of debate for 
centuries, but the controversy has exploded once again as the 
Internet redefines the way pornography is consumed and renders 
obsolete historical checks on its reach. 

But the Internet is not the only reason the pornography debate 
has grown more intense. Traditionally, there have been onJy two 
sides to the debate: civil libertarians, who argue that pornography 
should be protected as free speech, and social conservatives, who 
argue that pornography is obscene and should be banned. As the 
feminist movement emerged in the r970S, though, a new voice 
began to make itself heard, arguing that pornography was both a 
cause and an effect of sexual inequality. Unlike conservatives, who 
have made sex and sexuality their focus, feminists have concentrat-
ed on the degradation of women. Ironically, over the past few 
decades, conservatives and radical feminists have often united to 
work toward common goals. The pornography debate has become 
one of the most inceresting controversies in American political life, 
dividing some camps while forming unlikely coalition , 
ing itself as a matter of intellectual concern. 
A liberal college campus like Yale, then, was the 
for a series on pornography. 
Flynt, Strossen, Boreman, and 
MacKinnon-who represent the range of liberal views on pornog-
raphy, from hardcore civil libertarian to radical feminist-all made 
powerful arguments, invoking loaded words like freedom, censor-
ship, equality, and slavery to answer the question: Is pornography a 
hannless form of speech that should be protected by the First 
Amendment, or is it an active violation of women's civil rights that 
COntributes to their degradation, abuse, and subordination? 
After the series, I found myself returning to one of Flynt's 
analogies to understand both the participants' views and my own: 
"You can't have five hungry wolves and one sheep voting on what 
to have for supper, because the sheep is going to lose every time." 
While at Yale, Flynt invoked this analogy several times, concluding, 
"I know. I've been that sheep a few times." Although probably 
unintentional, this analogy summarizes the pornography debate 
quite well--as long as you leave the roles of wolf and sheep up for 
grabs. Flynt, Strossen, Boreman, and MacKinnon cast this role 
quite differently and form a strange pair of alliances in the debate; 
neither the feminist law professors nor the players in the pornogra-
phy industry agree with each other. Strossen and Flynt see the 
pornographer as a sheep needing protection from the wolves of 
majority-rule government and moralistic society. 
Boreman and 
MacKinnon, in contrast, argue that the sheep is a woman living in 
a patriarchy of wolves and brand Flynt and other pornographers 
wolves in sheep's clothing. 
Larry F1ynt 
When I met Larry Flynt in an Omni Hotel conference room, 
he gave me a quick once-over and guessed my age, correctly. I was 
courteous enough not to return the favor. Flynt, who has been in 
a wheelchair since he was shot twice in the abdomen in 1978, was 
rolled into the conference room by his stocky young attendant. 
Flynt's appearance and demeanor surprised me; he was not domi-
neering, as I had expected, but docile. He dressed his part-an 
ostentatious r 
d hij·s 
lumltger, and his large head sat 
on th 
ar 
ni 
shirt-but his getup and 
az 
blue 
er 
· g signs of Flynt's vitality. 
peaking is difficult or Flynt. He grumbles in low, hoarse 
tones, and has a hard time getting his words out, except when he 
eases into weU-rehearsed sound bites. Minutes into the interview, 
Flynt claimed provocatively that "the Church has had its hand on 
our crotch for over 2,000 years." Somehow, I wasn't as impressed 
as I had been when fd read this quote on the Web the night before. 
It lost even more power when I heard it the third time, later in the 
interview, and the fourth at the master's tea that afternoon. Flynt 



**Larry Flynt: First Amendment Absolutist?**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
is most ar home with memorized phrases like this and his beloved 
proclamation that radical feminists' only achievement has been get-
ting "a bunch of ugly women to march." 

Most of Flynt's sound bites are appeals to freedom of speech. 
Flynt calls himself a First Amendment absolutist, and his rhetoric 
plays on the AJI-American values of freedom and individualism. 
(Freedom and individualism, of course, sound much nicer than 
pornography and patriarchy.) Whether I asked Flynt about the 
objectification of women, the Reverend Jerry Falwell, or Hustln-'s 
profits, everything came back to the First Amendment. "Freedom 
is nor lost in one fell swoop; it's lost one book, one magazine, one 
movie at a time," he told me. Then, echoing a famed~.QI·~~~ 
statement by Supreme Court Chief Justice William 
Rehnquist, Flynt declared, "Freedom of speech is 
not only the unrestricted expression of the thought 
you love, but also the thought you hate the most." 
he argues. "What women have to understand is that men worship 
women, and they love to look at the female form." Apparently, rites 
of worship include "Hustler's Birch Rescue," a page of the magazine 
portraying women as dogs needing masters and positive reviews of 
movies in which women are offered as "gang bang fodder." 

Flynt also plays the holier-than-thou role when it comes to sex 
and violence. He speaks passionately about "how screwed up a soci-
ety's priorities are when it's legal to publish a photograph of the 
most mutilated body-you might even win a Pulitzer Prize for it-
but you can't publish consensual sex." Flynt also feels "that gratu-
itous violence is wrong." But when I asked about the intersection of 
sex and violence, such as the infamous Hustkr cover depicting a 
woman goitlg through a meat grinder, Flynt evaded my question. 
When I questioned him more generally about the objectification 
of women in pornography, he answered, "Look at Madison 
Underlying all of Flynt's talk about freedom, 
however, is a preoccupation with money and class. 
Avenue photo cases or Elk. See the little anorexic girls with 
~~:n• their skimpy little outfits on. They're really selling the same 
Flynt would have us see him not as a multi-mil-
lionaire who exploits women, but rather as an 
underdog, an Everyman who brings pornography 
to the masses. Tht Ptopk vs. Larry Flynt, Milos 
Forman's 1996 movie about Flynt's life and legal bat-
tles, opens with shots of Flynt's impoverished child-
hood, evoking the American Dream and encouraging view-
ers' hopes that this poor child will rise to wealth and success. 

During our interview, Flynt consistently described pornography in 
terms of class, saying, "The rich and privileged have always had 
their leather-bound editions of pornography. Today the local video 
store and bookstore have become the poor man's art museum. No 
matter how uncomfortable pornography makes the ruling class, 
they can't rake it away." Flynt next declared that Hustkr set out to 
be the poor man's Playboy. Whereas Playboy "presented an image of 
a girl that was unattainable," Flynt sought to showcase "more of the 
girl-next-door type, someone readers would see in the supermarket 
or the laundromat." 

The advent of the Internet has further democratized pornogra-
phy and has given the ruling class a new problem, says Flynt, who 
launched the Hustkr website a little over four years ago. "For cen-
turies people have been controlled by the flow of information. Now 
it's virtually impossible to control information." Flynt's voi 
tied coarsely as he repeated his favorite of sound bites: "For 2, 
years the Church has had its hand on our crotch, and the go 
ment is exceedingly moving in that direction, thinking that if it can 
control our pleasure center, it can control us. But people are not 
going to allow Big Brother to tell them what they can read or see in 
the privacy of their own homes." I almost expected the walls to 
stand and applaud. 

Throughout our interview, Flynt not only redefined pornogra-
phy as a class struggle, but also adeptly turned the definition of 
pornography on its head. Pornography does not degrade women, 
thing. Except they defend what they're doing as fashion. So 
what we're really talking about is degrees; either you're 
exploiting women or you're not." 


**Nadine Strossen: The ACLU's Perspective**

Nadine Strossen 
Nadine Srrossen, the president of the ACLU and a professor at 
NYU Law School, would for the most part agree. Strossen comes 
down on Flynt's side in the pornography debate, but presents her 
opinions with a grace, intelligence, and thoughtfulness that he 
lacks. 

Like Flynt, Strossen believes pornography deserves First 
Amendment protection. Though she wouldn't say. that the exploita-
tion of women is clear-cut, she would concur with Flynt's underly-
ing contention that the govenment has no right to protect certain 
publications while condemning others. Her view goes further than 
Flynt's, taking into account the difficulty of restricting some speech 
without getting on the slippery slope coward restricting too much 
speech-including speech that benefits women. 

Srrossen, who is tall with curly brown hair and an electric, 
comforting smile, arrived at Yale last April dressed more for a gala 
than a discussion. Her black velvet pantsuit and high heels clearly 
distinguished her from the group of jeans-wearing college students 
who h 
C4Jne to hear her sp 
~ Srrossen immediately set out 
e he 
e 
n 
• 1
~e 
~ ~~<·-~'~ 
smiled and nodded, every so often interjecting comments and anec-
dotes. 

When Strossen began to speak about pornography, she 
perched at the edge of her seat, letting her lively hands punctuate 
her talk. 

Srrossen considers herself a ferniWsr, yet is careful to distin-
guish her views from those of radical feminists who support the 
censorship of pornography. She argues that censorship does more 
harm than good to women, noting that censorship measures sup-


--- Page 23 ---

ported by feminists in the past have often backfired. Most recent-
ly, the liberal Supreme Court of Canada accepted radical feminist 
prescriptions regarding pornography, and actions were brought 
against works by the Likes of Zora Neale Hurston, Audre Lorde, and 
Gertrude Stein while mainstream pornography went unchecked. 

Strossen knows that such examples of censorship are her most 
powerful argument against liberals who oppose pornography. 
Conservatives would probably be glad to see feminist and lesbian 
volumes disappear from their local bookstores along with Hustkr, 
but liberals are rightly worried about this possibility. And Strossen 
also knows that it is the liberals who oppose pornography-and not 
the conservatives-that she is most likely to win over. Such liberals 
were probably her only opponents present at the master's tea, and 
Strossen was careful to address a pitch to them, as well as to those, 
like myself, teetering between civil libertarian and radical feminist 
views. She paused emphatically before warning that censorship is a 
"tool of the powerful to club beliefs they don't like" and that it is 
"not a coincidence that those in the minority are the object of 
obscenity prosecutions." I was left with a haunting image of what 
would happen to my own bookshelves; I wouldn't mind if all copies 
of Hustln- (including the February issue sitting in my room) were to 
disappear, and I wouldn't even mind if Elk were never published 
again. But I would choose Hustkr's survival, even its prosperity, 
over the loss of Hurston, Lorde, and other feminist writers. 
seductive, and her warnings about 
restricting freedom of speech are pru-
dent and foresightful. 

At the same time, however, 
Strossen's unconditional advocacy of 
First Amendment rights is somewhat 
myopic. In her single-minded atten-
tion to individual choices, she works 
too hard to validate pornography 
and fails to address its conse-
quences. 

Strossen 
presents 
pornography as a victimless crime ::~~:~~~~ZEJ 
and denies the genuine harm it can cause to the 
women involved in its making, as well as its responsibility for 
degrading societal views of women. 

Rather than critique both 
Hu.stl~r and Elk for exploiting women, she denies that either publi-
cation does so. 

Strossen concluded her master's tea, "What is 
degrading for one is empowering and liberating for another. We 
have to make decisions as individuals as to what we find empower-
ing and what we find subordinating." If everyone were indeed free 
to make these decisions, her words would cercainly be true. Yet 
while Strossen's advocacy of First Amendment rights is admirable, 
the choice to defend pornography should nor be as easy as she 
makes it seem. 


**Linda Lovelace: A Survivor Speaks Out**
**Page number(s): 23-24**

Linda Boreman 
Linda Boreman, better known as Linda Lovelace, star of the 
1972 film Deep Throat, is one of many who take offense at Srrossen's 
"greeted with cries for censorship" until the Supreme Court brought 
it within the umbrella of the First Amendment. According ro 
Srrossen, the Internet completed this cycle 
with the 1996 case ACLU 
M 
· nnon, at a master's tea as MacKinnon discussed her own 
which the Supreme Co 
1 1 · 
ornography. At one point, Boreman interjected a com-
mously concluded that..l::!jbldti;p.j~l 
Deep Throat, which grossed over $8oo million and for 
deserves the same degree of prorec-
which Boreman still receives fan mail: "Every time someone watch-
cion as print. As president of the 
es th 
'e, they're watching me being raped." 

For Srrossen, a civil 
libertarian, everything comes 
back to the rights of individu-
als to make their own deci-
f f 
sions. She may hare pornography 
( __ and choose not to consume it, but she 
wants this to be her personal choice; simi-
larly, she argues, one woman may find 
pornography offensive and violating, bur another should be allowed 
to engage in the profession. 

Strossen's individualist rhetoric is 
a jeans jacket. With her slightly chubby, tired-looking face framed 
by bangs and wavy long brown hair, Boreman both looked her 50 
years and seemed like a nervous high school student delivering a 
report. Her voice quivered, and she often stumbled over her speech, 
"A Survivor Speaks Out." On several occasions she paused to choke 
back or wipe away rears, and MacKinnon rose to comfort her. To 
begin her history, Boreman stated that, unlike the majority of 
women in the pornography industry who have suffered abuse as a 
child, her childhood was healthy and normal. She was surrounded 
by a loving, if strict, family, including her older sister Barbara, who 
would play with Boreman because she thought she was .. better than 
a doll." Following a near-f.ual car accident around age 20, Boreman 


--- Page 24 ---

returned to live with her family and soon thereafter met Charles 
Traynor, the man who would imprison her and force her into pros-
titution and pornography. 

As Boreman began co discuss Traynor, her maner-of-fact style 
became more personal, although it remained evident that her 
speech was scripted, and cliches often hung in the air. Nonetheless, 
the facrs of Boreman's story are moving and excruciating, and the 
tone of rage and humiliation in which she spoke ofTraynor lent her 
narration a power far beyond the script. So reman said that Traynor 
"acted like a complete gentleman and apple-pie American," and she 
moved in with him. Soon, however, he began to hold orgies in the 
downstairs bar he owned. 

Boreman decided to move out, but 
Traynor would not lee her. 

What ensued was "two years of imprisonment with mental, 
verbal, and physical abuse." Boreman told us, "I wasn't my own 
human being anymore." Traynor wouldn't let her out of his sight. 
He watched her go to the bathroom and held a gun to her head 
when she was on the phone. According to Boreman, Traynor 
believed that "a woman's body was made to be used and abused by 
a man." One day Traynor rook Boreman to a nearby Holiday Inn, 
where he forced her to have sex with five men, who labeled her 
Traynor's "new freak." As Boreman was "poked, touched, and 
probed in every nook and cranny," she began to cry, and one of the 
men told her to stop because she was reminding him of his daugh-
ter when her favorite doll broke. When Boreman narrated this 
event, she actually seemed like a frightened child. Tears gathered in 
her eyes, her voice faltered, and she had to look at MacKinnon for 
the encouragement to continue. 

Following the Holiday Inn incident, Traynor made a movie 
starring Boreman. Boreman, however, considers herself"the victim, 
not the star, of Dup Throat." Though she seemed 
aroused on screen, off-camera she was being ...:::.=---
beaten, threatened, and abused. 

Said 
Boreman, "So many people comment on the 
big smile on my face, but no one has asked 
me about my bruises." 

Boreman finally escaped ftom Traynor, 
but, despite many legal efforcs, she has not 
been ro bring him co justice. 

Unlike 
properry, which typica!Jy has a 20-30 year 
statute of limitation, damages inflicted on 
the human body can only be prosecuted for 
approximately three years. 

By the time 
Boreman had found psychological and 
legal help, the srarure had run out. 

Traynor remains free today. Boreman 
cold her shocked audience that when an 
interviewer recently asked Traynor 
whether he felt any remorse for his treat-
ment of her, he answered, "She ought to 
thank me for her one moment of glory." 


**Catharine MacKinnon: Pornography as Action, Not Speech**
**Page number(s): 24**

Catharine MacKinnon 
Catharine MacKinnon, a law professor at the University of 
Michigan, has been trying to bring Traynor ro justice and, on a larg-
er scale, working to bring an end to pornography. In many ways, 
MacKinnon · fRr Bore 
what Strossen ·s for Flynt; just as 
Srrossen tr 
latls 
ch 
~tp oand law, 
MacKinnon 
an 
es ega! and 
academic doctrines. Just as one can dislike Flynt and nonetheless 
support Suosse 
~~ 
d 
e·e~ l 
MacKinnon's pr·68<~1:aor\l~ 
An outspo en s o ar 
e ieves pornography vto are 
women's civil rights, MacKinnon is clearly frustrated, embittered, 
and brilliant. A slender and domineering woman, she arrived ac 
Yale wearing a grey pantsuit, her long grey hair pulled back. 

Boreman, who seems co revere MacKinnon, followed shyly behind. 

Although MacKinnon's voice is far softer than I had expected from 
a radical feminist often denounced as strident, her presence quick-
ly filled the room. MacKinnon knew her large audience was mixed: 
some had come to praise her, others to challenge or condemn. This 
latter group was vocal during the questions following her talk, and 
MacKinnon, who had been eloquent and witty during che tea, sud-
denly grew hostile and snappy. She seems to see anyone who dis-
agrees with her, particularly any feminist, as a trairor, which no 
doubt isolates those who might support her (and doesn't help her 
already Limited popularity). 

From the start, MacKinnon's master's tea felt more like an aca-
demic seminar than an informal discussion. 

While Flynt and 
Strossen had played to their audiences, stating rheir views in an 
accessible manner peppered with popular sound bites, MacKinnon 
jumped immediately into obscure definitions, research findings, 
and theoretical constructs, although she was careful to add spo-
touches of humor to keep her audience engaged. Unlike 
most participants in the pornography debate, MacKinnon does 
not regard pornography as speech, but as action. Pornography 
A is the oppression of women, she maintains, not a harmless 
form of speech. 

MacKinnon argues that pornography acts against women 
twice-when it is made and when it is seen. She seeks to remind 
us that pornographic images are not static; there is a before 
and an after for every picture. First, as in Boreman's case, 
women are abused, raped, and degraded in the making 
of pornography. Then, many men who view pornogra-
phy similarly abuse, rape, and degrade women. 

D~~P 
Throat, says MacKinno~ , led many men co force women 
to try acts that Boreman had only done under hypnosis 
and coercion. For MacKinnon, then, pornography is nor 
about free speech; it is about freedom and equality, rhe 
freedom of women nor co be harmed rather chan the 
freedom of others to view pornography. Women and 



**Two New Havens**
**Author: Michael Gerber**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
N
o New Haven would be complete without a pizza place, and 
New Haven, Kentucky, has the New Haven Pizza Shoppe. 


Hundreds of miles from Pepe's and Sally's and the traffic of the 1-95 
corridor, New Haven sits at the junction of KY-52 and u.s. 31E. If I 
hadn'r seen it on rhe map while planning a visit to nearby 
Mammoth Cave National Park and the birthplace of Abraham 
Lincoln, I might never have noticed ir at all. You can drive through 
it in a minute, missing the town hall, the museum, the pharmacy: 
It's just another small town. 


Coming from the north on 3IE, I found myself on Main Street. 
A sign welcomed me co town and was followed by a few churches. 
A block further, I hit the main intersection. To my left was a small 
building labeled Town Hall; an attached garage held the town's lone 
fire rruck. Just past the intersection, the Cream Srat!on (an "udder 
delight") serves ice cream, the pharmacy offers everything from pre-
scription drugs to arts and crafts, and the pizza shoppe serves lunch. 
Across the srreet is T he Sherwood Inn, the local bed and breakfusr 
since 1875. I crossed the railroad tracks, saw the Kentucky Railway 
Museum on my left, and found myself leaving town. Driving 
through, I saw lircle resemblance ro the town's older, more famous 
namesake in Connecricut. There is no ocean, no gothic university; 
there isn't even a high school in town. 


Town Hall is a small, simple building that stands out only 
because of the plaque in front that commemorates New Haven's 
war dead. A note on the front door told me I would have ro wait to 
see the inside: "Gone ro bank. Be right back." I began to wonder if 
the whole city shuts down when someone needs to run more than 
one errand or ger some lunch. I returned later and met Linda 
Mattingly, a city employee since 1988 and residem of 35 years. 


According co Linda, the mayor was not in. Linda told me about 
New Haven's government and gave me a tour ofTown Hall, which 
consisted of two rooms: a reception area, including Linda's desk, 
and a larger room in back.. Near the center of the room sat the pho-
tocopier. To its righr, a map of New Haven lay on a table used for 
meetings of rhe town commissioners. On the left, two cubicles were 
labeled with simple black and white plaques: "police" and "mayor." 


The mayor's "office" consists of a desk, a chair, and a file cabinet. 
On the side of the cabinet, any doubts as to the mayor's loyalties-
she is an outsider, originally from the Philippines-are cast aside by 
the "I Love New Haven" sticker. If the mayor stands up she can see 
right into the police chief's cubicle and discuss the lat~t crime sta-
tistics. 


Mayor Tessie Cecil won her first election almost 10 years ago. 
She is neither a Democrat nor a Republican-stare law prohibits 
cities the size of New Haven (rhe last census counted 796 residents) 
from having partisan governments-but according ro Linda the 
town is mostly "conservative Democrats." While Mayor Cecil does 
nor have the backing of a powerful political machine, she does have 
a chokehold on the office that resembles chat of another New 
Haven mayor, John DeStefano, Jr. In her first bid for re-election, 
Mayor Cecil won by a two-to-one margin; the second time around, 
no one even opposed her. Her position does not give her great exec-
utive authority, however, since she makes decisions in conjunction 
with four ocher elected officials. She cannot hire or fire city work-
ers or make unilateral decisions on the main issues that confronr the 
city, like, according to at least two residents, the ongoing argumenr 
between sidewalk proponents and citizens who do nor want their 
lawns disrupted. 


The similarities between the two New Havens do nor end with 
the political dominance of the current mayor: One New Haven is 
an All-America City; the other is an All-Kentucky City. Like their 
Connecticut counterparts, the people of New Haven, KY, share a 
pride in their history. Samuel Pottinger settled the area in 1781 for 
Harrod's Company, seeing it as an importanr shipping center on the 
Rolling Fork River. First called Porringer's landing, he renamed ir 
after a city he knew well in his home stare of Connecticut. Later, 
New Haven became an important point on the L&N Railroad. One 
of the women who runs the pharmacy is even a direct descendant 
of Daniel Boone, her partner bragged to me. Since then, trains have 
stopped coming. and instead of a bustling shipping point, the town 
is a quiet place for retirees, commuters to Bardstown and Louisville, 
and families who have lived there for generations. 


Kim Maupin grew up in New Haven, left only to anend col-
lege in Louisville, and now has a family and three children. Her par-
ems still live in New Haven, and she doesn't even know when her 
family first arrived there. I met Kim when I visited New Haven's 
one bona fide tourist attraction: the Kentucky Railway Museum. I 
didn't actually see the exhibit, but I talked to her in the gift shop. I 
told her I was from New Haven, cr, and talked to her about her 
hometown. Nearly six months later, I called the Museum from 
home and talked to Kim. "Hi, my name is Michael, and I'm from 
New H aven, Connecticut, and a couple of months ago I carne 
through town-" 


"Yeah, I remember," Kim said. "You were the one with the 
book." I had bought a picture book about trains and asked Kim to 
write a message in it to the people of one New Haven from a citi-
zen of another. After half a year, she still remembered the college kid 
who had come through town and shown interest in her New 
Haven. 


Most residents of New Haven, KY, have not made the journey 
to Connecticut. Joanne Perkins made the uip once. Joanne works 
in the p harmacy, where I stopped to learn more about the town. I 
had a video camera with me and Joanne was more than happy to be 
interviewed on film. She's lived in New Haven for over 70 years, 
and told me about irs history. But like most residents, she couldn't 
see why I was so interested in her hometown. When she came to 
our New H aven it was only for a class trip co Pfizer during her phar-
macological training. While she didn't know much about New 
Haven, cr, she did have a message for its residents: "We stole your 
llarne," she told the camera with a laugh. 


I had brought the camera to make a documentary, which, like 
lllany brilliant ideas-for road trips, never quite got finished. The 
Sli'TEMBER 8, 2000 


video would show clips of New Haven and its town liall. I'd inter-
view people about their town, and then I'd edit the clips so that the 
film would be funny. My friends at Yale could watch it and make 
fun of the town. And I did get my share of footage to laugh at-
shots of the mayor's cubicle, Joanne telling us about how they stole 
our name, and the outside of the Kentucky Railway Museum. 


But there are advantages to New Haven's size that my tape did 
not capture. A brochure printed by the newly formed New Haven 
Development Association explains: "[New H aven] still has the 
warm and hospitable atmosphere that it had many years ago when 
[its] forefathers fuse settled here. Where a hand-shake is the only 
contract needed between friends and your word is still considered a 
honorable comm itment." My first instinct on reading the brochure 
was to make fun of the town; the brochure even had spelling errors. 
But those statements on the broch ure are not just promotional plat-
itudes to joke about; talking to residents, it became obvious they 
were true. The Mayor didn't run unopposed in the last election 
merely because people don't care. She ran unopposed because most 
of the town knew and liked her. 


The L&:N Railroad doesn't come through New Haven anymore, 
but the Railway Museum still runs a passenger train. Just like peo-
ple in New Haven, cr, those in Kentucky can hop on a train to 
Boston; the train isn't as fast as Amtrak, but the trip is only u miles. 
Of course, Boston, KY, isn't exactly Boston, MA. But no one in 
Kentucky seems to mind. 



**Title: Literacy for the Literati**
**Author: Alan Schoenfeld**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
To write a book that claims to teach its readers how and why to 
read seems presumptuous and just short of impossible. Yet equal-
ly presumptuous and impossible seem attempts to codify the 
canon of western literature and to prove that Shakespeare invent-
ed humankind's modern conception of itself, two tasks that 
Harold Bloom, Sterling Professor of the Humanities at Yale, 
pulled off with brilliance and grace in his recent books, *Th~ 
western Canon* and *Shak~sp~ar~: The Invention of th~ Human*. 
Unfortunately, Bloom's latest attempt, *How to R~ad and Why*, falls 
short of teaching the lesson its title promises. Though inspired and 
remarkably elegant at many moments, the book lacks cohesion, 
offering esoteric criticism on a seemingly random smattering of 
short stories, poems, novels, and plays, rather than an extended 
meditation of some sort on the pronounced mission. The book 
would more aptly be titled *What I've Read and How I've Read It*. 

Bloom begins the book with a bold introduction, announc-
ing his affections for his critical mentors, Dr. Samuel Johnson and 
William Hazlitt, and his intentions to continue in their tradition 
of "experiential and pragmatic, rather than theoretical" criticism, 
the sort of literary analysis that strives "to make what is implicit in 
a book finely explicit." Bloom employs such criticism in his 
attempts to answer the central, and problematic, question of his 
book: "Information is endlessly available to us; where shall wis-
dom be found?" I say problematic because this question, as Bloom 
poses it, seems more at home in *Th~ ~stern Canon*, where Bloom 
tells us what to read, discussing the various schools of great litera-
ture and the particular wisdom of each, than in *How to R~ad and 
Why*, which, ostensibly, will teach its readers all that the title sug-
gests. 

Thankfully, Bloom quickly abandons this question, moving, 
at least for a short time, into the how and why, rather than the 
what, of reading. Combining the philosophies of Johnson and 
Francis Bacon with Ralph Waldo Emerson's belief that the best 
books "impress us with the conviction, that one nature wrote and 
the same reads," Bloom issues this formula for reading: 
Find what comes near to you that can be put to the use of 
weighing and considering, and that addresses you as though 
you share the one nature, free of time's tyranny. 

This is sound advice, which Bloom attempts to heed and 
illustrate in a discussion of some 18 short stories, 21 poems, 15 nov-
els (divided into European and American sections), and three 
plays. Diligently addressing the issues of how and why to read for 
all of these texts is nearly impossible, especially in this slender vol-
ume of 283 pages. Bloom barely has the time to tell us what he has 
read, let alone how and why he has read it. 


All is not lost, however. The book is 
valuable as a companion to the lucky texts 
Bloom has chosen. Before and/or after 
reading any of the stories, poems, novels, or 
plays featured in the book, a reader would 
be wise to consult *How to Read and Why* 
for, at the very least, a short analysis of the 
text that is likely different from his or her 
own. Moreover, one is bound to be 
inspired by Bloom's reverence for and ded-
ication to great literature. Though his 
haranguing against the critics of the 
"school of resentment"—academics who, 
saith Bloom, destroy great literature by 
engaging the ideologies of multicultural-
ism, feminism, historicism, etc.—becomes 
tiresome, what is most evident in Bloom's 
scholarship is his sincere belief that reading 
great books does something wonderful for 
us, that it helps to "strengthen the self, and 
to learn its authentic interests." 

In the most interesting and engaging 
sections of the book, Bloom makes the wise 
jump between analyzing a text for its 
implicit meaning and suggesting what 
reading that text means in the grander 
scheme of things. For example, Bloom 
offers a reading of Tennyson's "Ulysses" 
that concentrates on the speaker's ability to 
overhear himself within the space of the 
poem. As Ulysses considers his voyage and 
relationships with his son and inferiors, his 
ability to listen to his own words allows 
him to come to a greater understanding of 
himself as he moves from his opening 
lamentation, that the Ithacans "know not 
me," to his final pronouncement, "my pur-
pose holds I To sail beyond the sunset, and 
the baths I Of all the western stars, until I 
die." 

Bloom capitalizes on the strength of 
his own reading as he translates his analysis 
into a more general lesson for his readers: 
Only rarely can poetry aid us in 
communing with others. . . . 
Solitude is the more frequent mark 
of our condition; how shall we peo-
ple that solitude? Poems can help us 
to speak to ourselves more clearly 
and more fully, and to overhear that 
speaking .... We speak to an other-
ness in ourselves, or to what may be 
best and oldest in ourselves. We read 
to find ourselves, more fully and 
more strange than otherwise we 
could hope to find. 

SEPTEMBER 8, 2000

This is a beautiful articulation of what, for 
most readers, is the indescribable allure of 
poetry and an elegant statement of the 
power of literature as a companion and 
guide throughout the vicissitudes of life. 

Unfortunately, such moments of 
inspiration are few and far between. Much 
more frequently, the two or three pages 
Bloom spends on each text provide nothing 
more than an analytical reading. However 
good those readings may be, and however 
much they may elucidate the text in ques-
tion, they do little to achieve the book's 
purported aim. Bloom rarely engages the 
questions of how and why to read in any 
appreciable manner and, when he does, his 
suggestions and lessons are surprisingly 
simplistic. For example, in the section on 
poetry, Bloom instructs that the "first crux" 
of poetry reading is that poetry should be 
memorized whenever possible. (Strangely, 
the "first crux" of poetry reading is preced-
ed by the "first principle"—that poetry 
should be read closely—and is followed 
neither by a second crux nor a second prin-
ciple.) The disparity between the erudition 
of Bloom's own analysis and the simplicity 
of his "lessons" is jarring. Perhaps all of this 
emanates from a central problem of this 
book. It seems to me that those most likely 
to pick up a user's manual for great litera-
ture, some sort of *Reading Literary Classics 
for Dummies*, are those who would like to 
be great readers but for some reason never 
latched on to the hobby. Yet Bloom's writ-
ing addresses an entirely different audience, 
a hyper-literate population that under-
stands 
the 
import 
of words 
like 
"Rabelaisian" and, like Bloom, has spent 
many sleepless nights lamenting Turgenev's 
"tendentiousness." Unfortunately, such 
readers scarcely need to be convinced that 
reading is a worthwhile exercise or advised 
to read poetry closely. 

Though Bloom claims early on in the 
book that he "intend[s] no polemics here," 
the rigidity of his criticism puts such a 
claim to lie. According to Bloom, every 
human being must be classified as one of 
four 
types—Hamlet, 
Falstaff, 
Don 
Quixote, or Sancho Panza. Similarly, all 
short stories are either "Chekhovian-
Hemingwayesque" or "Borgesian:" "The 
first gratifies our hunger for reality, the sec-
ond teaches us how ravenous we still are for 
what is beyond supposed reality." A short 
story by Gabriel García Márquez, or any 
magic realist for that matter, breaks 
Bloom's mold. Such rigid and extreme cri-
teria for classifying works of literature, let 
alone people, seem unnecessary and odd 
from a scholar who usually offers—and 
always demands—a nuanced approach to 
literature. 

Moreover, Bloom dedicates far too 
much of the book's precious little space to 
rearticulating and reinforcing theories he 
developed in earlier books. Most notably, 
the book frequently reads like a literary 
genealogy as Bloom traces authors' effects 
on each other, as he did in his book, *The 
Anxiety of Influence*. Perhaps such an exer-
cise could help to fulfill the mission of the 
book, but Bloom does little to inform his 
readers how they themselves can discover 
or understand the Chekhovian-ness of Guy 
de Maupassant's short stories, let alone why 
they should care. Bloom also makes con-
stant reference to his hero Shakespeare, 
whom he uses as the benchmark of every 
sort of literary greatness. After reading 
*How to Read and Why*, we know that the 
nihilism of Dostoevsky's *Crime and 
Punishment* is unmistakably Shakespearean 
and that the "inwardness" of Chekhov's 
characters comes as a result of Shakespeare's 
innovation of "foregrounding" his charac-
ters. Perhaps these are valuable lessons, and 
a reader of Bloom's Shakespeare would like-
ly be excited to learn them. Yet in the con-
text of *How to Read and Why*, they are irri-
tating, taking the place of information that 
would better teach the lessons at hand. 

Throughout his book, Bloom makes 
constant reference to two impending crises: 
the demise of American education at the 
hands of politicized scholars who use liter-
ature only to advance ideology and, more 
importantly, his own old age (around 70 
years). The book, then, seems to be Bloom's 
attempt to shore up the fragments of great 
literature against the impending ruin of 
education as he himself enters what he 
seems to think will be the final chapter of 
his reading life. In doing so, perhaps he 
heeds some of his own advice a little too 
closely: "Do not attempt to improve your 
neighbor or your neighborhood by what or 
how you read." 

Alan Schoenfeld, a junior in Saybrook 
College, is editor-in-chief for TNJ.


**Title: Just Received, Righa Royal Hotel - NYC**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 32**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Just Received, Righa Royal Hotel - NYC 
• 1 OO's of Furnishings For Sale 
• Full Size Beds ...................................... from s89.95 
(Complete - Includes Frame & Headboard} 
• Designer Dressers ...................... from S39.95 & up 
• Designer Table Lamps ......................... sl4.95 & up 
• Ramada Writing Desks .................... from s29.95 
• Framed Pictures ................................. s9.95 & up 
• Hyatt Love Seats......... 
15 
...... s79.95 
• Headboards.............. 
s\\:!"~ ..... froms 2.95 
~~!~~~}: 
l· > 
j&.<?)



--- Page 31 ---

C1~~ TYCO 
Ianners 
IDH~H~ 
Business Cards 
Color Copies 
CasseHe Copying 
CuHing 
@@0~®~ ~liD~H0Gufillil@ 
Digital Output 
Faxing 
r?®!l@J~lfl@ 
!1@JOVilfiliU@JiffiOi@ 
Large Document Copying 
~ 
Large Fonnat Color 
Mailing 
Mounting 
~uiilfl@ 
Printing 
IP@J00[?)®[(1f ~11®0 
Resumes 
Rubber Stamps 
Scanning 
Xeroxlng 
-
\!~~~t TYCO 
(203) 562-9723 
1-888-TYCOCOPY 
www.tycocopy.com 
., 
Family owned and operated since 1971 
262 Elm Street, New Haven 

