Publication date: September 10, 1999
Volume: 32
Issue number: 1


**MASTHEAD**
- PUBLISHER: David Slifof
- EDITOR-IN-CHIEF: Michael Grimm
- MANAGING EDITORS: Ian Blecher; Daniel Brook
- DESIGNER: Nicholas Jitkoff
- PRODUCTION MANAGER: Eric Rothstein
- BUSINESS MANAGER: Navin Manglani
- PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR: Andrew Young
- ASSOCIATE BUSINESS MANAGER: Masatoshi Harunari
- ASSOCIATE EDITORS: Ronny Givony, John Swansburg
- RESEARCH DIRECTORS: Julia Karr, Alan Schomfeld
- CIRCULATION AND SUBSCRIPTIONS MANAGER: Anya Kamm
- STAFF: Vanessa Agard-Jones • Juan D'Crux • Whitney Grace • Hrishilkesh Hirway • Jada Yuan • Miriam Illanes Dutra • Emily Bazelon • Constance Clement • Peter B. Cooper • Tom Grigg • Brooks Kelley • Lainie Rudow • Henry Schwob • Elizabeth Skidelsky • Fred Suebich • Thomas Strong • Richard Blow • Jay Carney • Richard Conniff • Ruth Conniff • Elisha Cooper • Lauren Rabin • Steven Weisman • Daniel Yergin • Sam Ballou • Anson M. Beard, Jr. • Bibi Bennen • Edward B. Bennett, Jr. • Edward B. Bennett III • Paul S. Bennen • Gerald Bruck • Barbara Bund • Jay Carney • Daphne Chu • Josh Civin • Jonathan M. Clark • Constance Clement • Elisha Cooper • Peter B. Cooper • Andy Cowen • Jerry and Rae Cowen • Masi Denison • Albert J. Fox • Mrs. Howard Fox • David Freeman • Geoffrey Fried • Amulya Gangan • Sherwin Goklany • David Gottlieb • Tom Grigg • Stephen Haltman • Jane Kaminsky • Brooks Kelley • Robert J. Greenwood • Andrew J. Kuzneski, Jr. • Lewis E. Lehrman • Jim Lewis • E. Nobles • Hank M. Noblot • Martha E. Neill • Peter Neill • Howard H. Newman • Sean O'Brien • Julie Pham • Lewis and Joan Plan • Josh Plaut • Julia Preston • Lauren Rabin • Fairfax C. Randall • Rollin Riggs • Mark Rindler • Nicholas X. Rizopoulos • Robert Rohm • Arnold and Arthur Sager • Dick and Debbie Scanlon • Richard Shields • W. Hampton Sides • Lisa Silverman • Elizabeth and William Stern • Thomas Strong • Elizabeth Tate • Alex and Betsy Tordoff • Melora Turner • Allen and Sarah Wandl • Daniel Yergin and Ann Scott Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
FEATURES
Mixed Signals - Jada Yuan
Shots in the Dark: Conventional Wisdom - Whitney Grace
Labor Days - Daniel Brook
Boys Under the Hood - Bill Bascus
STANDARDS
Points of Departure
2.5 Essay: Very Like a Whale - John Swansburg, Jr.
2.8 The Critical Angle: Murder Under the Elms - Anya Kamm


**Title: Mixed Signals**
**Author: Jada Yuan**
**Page number(s): 6**

WYBC has many groups to please, but can all things be considered?


**Title: Shots in the Dark: Conventional Wisdom**
**Author: Whitney Grace**
**Page number(s): n**


**Title: Labor Days**
**Author: Daniel Brook**
**Page number(s): 16**

Labor Ready finds jobs for New Haven's down and out,
but whose interests does it really serve?


**Title: Boys Under the Hood**
**Author: Bill Bascus**
**Page number(s): 22**

The obscure origins of shiny rims.


**Title: Points of Departure**
**Author:  (No author listed)**
**Page number(s): 4**


**Title: Essay: Very Like a Whale**
**Author: John Swansburg, Jr.**
**Page number(s): 2.5**


**Title: The Critical Angle: Murder Under the Elms**
**Author: Anya Kamm**
**Page number(s): 2.8**

reviewing Blue Blood: An Ivy League Mystery, Pamela Thomas-Graham


**Title: Endnote: Jilted Joe DiMaggio**
**Author: Ian Blecher**
**Page number(s): 30**



**Title: Money for Nothing**
**Author: julia Ivrum**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Money for Nothing 
Since its conception, the mall planned 
for Long Wharf has been a rich source of 
controversy. Those responsible for attracting the mall and engineering the many 
official contracts and unofficial political 
deals necessary for its construction say that 
the 150-store complex will be a boon to 
New Haven's economic future. They project that the mall will be the source of 
3,000 new retail jobs and a multi-million 
dollar increase in tax revenue. Some, however, predict that the construction of the 
mall will sap the vital flow of commerce 
away from New Haven's downtown area, 
forcing many retailers out of business, leaving behind blighted streets full of empty 
storefronts. The planners' provision for $25 
million (funded by the issuing of bonds) 
for development of New Haven's existing 
commercial areas, therefore, would seem a 
good conciliatory measure. Instead, this 
provision proved to be the most contested 
issue in gaining the approval of the Board 
of Aldermen, perhaps even violating some 
of the principles underlying the existence 
of the board. 

When aldermen met on August 2 to 
vote, item by item, on the motion to 
approve the plans for the mall, most items 
passed with little opposition. But when the 
board arrived at the issue of the money for 
downtown, a long and contentious debate 
erupted. The debate centered on an 
amendment to the item proposed by Ward 
One alderman Julio Gonzale2 (cc '99) and 
Ward Two alderman Jelani Lawson (Me, 
'96). This amendment would have reduced 
the $25 million to $6.5 million in the first 
year, with subsequent additional funding 
dependent upon a careful account of how 
this money was used and the effectiveness 
of this use. The effort to attach the amendment was ultimately unsuccessful; although 
the item passed, over one-third of the 
aldermen present voted against it, by far 
the largest aldermanic opposition to 
emerge against any of the plans for the 
mall. 

Gonzale2 and Lawson support the 
central parts of the mall deal; in fact, they 
were instrumental in engineering a development agreement that emphasizes corporate 
responsibility, requiring the employers 
at the mall to provide such provisions as 
child care and a living wage. They opposed 
the $25 million bonding issue, says 
Gonzalez, because it was fiscally ill-conceived and because the path to its approval 
was procedurally wrong. 

In the early '9os recession, New Haven 
acquired a debt load significantly higher 
than similar cities, largely because of the 
number of bonds it issued. Although the 
city's debt is no longer growing, it still 
spends approximately 10 percent of its tax 
revenue just to pay the interest on its existing debt-the average for comparable cities 
is between 5 and 6 percent. The proposed 
$25 million bond issue will push New 
Haven into even greater debt, which, 
accounting for interest, will eventually cost 
$46 million to repay. The city will pay off 
its debt at a rate of $2 million per year with 
some of the projected tax revenue from the 
mall. Instead of burdening New Haven's 
citizens with more debt, argues Gonzalez, 
the city government should use taxes from 
the mall in a more direct method of financing. For example, if the city used $4 million 
of this new revenue for downtown 
improvements over seven years, it would 
eventually add up to $28 million dollars in 
aid, without the problem of increasing 
New Haven's debt and paying millions of 
dollars in interest. 

The procedural 
objections 
that 
Gonzale2 and Lawson have against the $25 
million bond issue stem from the differences between how it was agreed upon 
compared to the other issues. The development agreement, for example, was discussed at length and in detail, resulting in a 
satisfactory 
agreement on 
corporate 
responsibility. Before the official vote by 
the Board of Aldermen, the entire motion 
regarding the mall was brought before the 
Committee of the Whole, which includes 
all the aldermen, but acts as a more informal forum for discussion and preliminary 
votes. At the time of the committee meeting, however, the mayor's office had not 
proposed a budget for the use of the $25 
million dollars to the aldermen, preventing 
any kind of review or discussion of the use 
of this fund. Finally, at the time of the 
board vote on August 2, the DeStefano 
administration presented a budget with 
only six line items, all of them laughably 
vague, such as "public improvements" and 
"community." A staff of only five aldermen 
and five employees of the mayor's office 
will administer this almost unbudgeted 
fund. 

The procedure by which the $25 million bonding measure gained approval 
seems to defeat the purpose of New 
Haven's Board of Aldermen. Since the city 
is divided into 30 tiny wards, each of which 
elects one alderman, its board is large and 
can cause the legislative process to be cumbersome and lengthy. The reason for representation on such a local scale, despite its 
drawbacks, is that it ensures a much more 
thorough representation of all interests and 
opinions than a system of larger and thus 
fewer districts. When a proposal with such 
a potential impact on the financial future 
of New Haven and its residents is pushed 
through the approval process without full 
opportunity for review, this democratic 
ideal of full representation loses any chance 
of fulfillment. In allowing the shakiest part


--- Page 5 ---

of the mayor's pet project to pass with only 
lip service to proper procedure, the silent 
members of the Board represented the 
interests of one: Mayor John DeStefano. 
-julia Ivrum


**Title: Bidding Love Goodbye**
**Author: Alan Schomfold**
**Page number(s): 5**

Bidding Love Goodbye 
From her first-year suite in Vanderbilt 
Hall on Old Campus, Joyce Maynard carried on a notorious love affair: Maynard, 
then 18 years old, traded letters and eventually moved in with then-53-year-old J. D. 
Salinger-who was known as much for his 
reclusiveness as for The Catcher in the Rye. 
Though the relationship lasted little more 
than a year, its last vestiges-the ownership 
rights of the fourteen letters Salinger wrote 
to Maynard-were not laid to rest until 
this past summer, when Maynard auctioned them off at Sotheby's New York to 
raise money for her children's college 
tuition. 

Maynard first gained public attention 
with "An 18-Year-Old Looks Back on Life," 
her cover story of the April 23, 1972 issue of 
the New York Times Magazine. Two days 
after the story appeared, Maynard received 
a letter postmarked Cornish, New 
Hampshire, the hamlet where Salinger had 
lived when his writing propelled him 
into the public eye. The letters continued 
throughout the summer and Maynard's 
first semester at Yale. Maynard and Salinger 
exchanged thoughts but more importantly, 
perhaps, they exchanged telephone numbers and shared their excitement about possibly meeting each other in the near future. 

That meeting took place in early 1973, 
after which Maynard dropped out of Yale 
to move in with Salinger. The relationship 
became strained shortly thereafter. "I struggled to meet his expectations that I detach 
myself from worldly things and from the 
clamor of voices around me." Maynard 
wrote in a confessional essay for the 
Internet publication Y-Life Magazine in 
September 1998. "I communicated with 
almost nobody but Jerry Salinger." In 
March 1973, Maynard moved out. Though 
the two still corresponded, the letters 
became less frequent and decidedly chillier. 
In his last letter, dated August 17, 1973, 
Salinger ended the relationship. 

Maynard did not discuss her love affair 
with Salinger publicly for nearly 30 years. 
But in her 1998 memoir, At Home in the 
World, she exposed to the public the details 
of the relationship. Maynard received a 
great deal of public criticism for breaching 
the sanctity of her relationship with 
Salinger by exploiting the details of it for 
financial gain. Furthermore, Salinger's reputation as a recluse swayed public opinion 
against Maynard. In the years prior to the 
publication of Maynard's memoir, Salinger 
had fought to keep quotations from his letters to friends out of a biography and to 
stop the screening of an Iranian film adaptation of his book Franny and Zooey. He 
succeeded both times. 

When Maynard announced early in 
1999 that she intended to auction off the 
letters she had received from Salinger, however, the author took no steps to prevent 
her from doing so. Since the letters were 
not to be published, and since the applications of copyright and invasion of privacy 
laws are limited, Salinger could not take 
legal action. The auction, scheduled for 
June 22, presented the biggest threat to the 
shell Salinger had hidden in for so long. 

Fortunately for Salinger, someone 
understood his need and wish for privacy. 
Software magnate Peter Norton purchased 
the batch of letters for $156,500, nearly 
twice the pre-auction estimate. Soon after, 
Norton returned the letters to Salinger. "I 
share the widely expressed opinion that the 
work should be bought by someone sympathetic to Mr. Salinger's desire for privacy," Norton said in a public statement. 

With all parties contented, a love story 
whose legend had long outlasted the love 
itself came to its long-awaited end. 
-Alan Schomfold 

**Title:  WYBC: A Station Fighting for Survival**
**Author:  Unlisted**
**Page number(s): 6**

EPHRAM LUSTGARTEN (PC 'oo), the General Manager of the Yale 
Broadcasting Company (WYBc), swears by his company manual. Within its pages, he has found solid ideals on which to 
base his vision of the radio station. "I would quote the mission," he 
urges me. "It's very important." 

More important than I might have thought. The future of 
Yale's radio station may hinge on how closely it adheres to its official mission in the next few years. The company gospel lists three 
basic purposes for the station's existence: to serve the interests of the 
student body, to train its members in the field of radio and to bring 
students and the community together for the betterment of both. 

Juan Castillo, the tall, 48-year-old black-Hispanic man who serves 
as WYBC's Director of Community Affairs, has witnessed the station's near-collapse in its attempts to adhere to all three statements. 
These days, he believes in a slightly different goal: "Our mission," 
he says, "is to stay alive." 

For most of its existence WYBC has struggled just to remain in 
operation. While most non-profit and college stations hold telethon 
fundraisers and receive grants from their parent institutions, WYBC, 
as one of only three commercial, non-profit radio stations in the 
country, must rely solely on advertisements to generate revenue. At 
the same time, WYBC's status as an undergraduate organization prevents it from hiring an advertising director, so the station must rely 
on the efforts of student volunteers already busy with classes. 

Yale University, WYBC's parent institution, has proven less than 
sympathetic to the station's financial troubles. While the stations at 
Quinnipiac College and the University of New Haven receive generous grants from the schools' undergraduate organizations' funds 
and communications departments, Yale lacks both a communications department and the desire to support a vocational endeavor. 
"Yale breeds doctors, lawyers, and investment bankers," says Kathy 
Choi (BK 'oo), current Program Director for WYBC. "They're not 
interested in creating a breeding ground for broadcast entertainers." 

The university does offer WYBC rent-free use of its current space 
in Hendrie Hall, but the station itself incurs the rest of the significantly larger operating expenses. 

Yale Broadcasting saves some 
money through its governance by the all-student Executive Board, 
but still has to provide salaries for the full-time Director of 
Operations and part-time Music Director and Director of 
Community Affairs who oversee the operation of the station during 
the day while students go to class. In addition, the station has to 
pay for utilities and for the maintenance of its transmitter and studio equipment. The Executive Board carefully budgets the advertising revenue, but any mismanagement can throw the entire station into debt. According to Castillo, in 1988, perhaps the station's 
worst fiscal year, "They told us in a month we were closing. We 
were only making $20-25,000 a year and our expenses were $50-
60,000." Out of desperation, the station borrowed $56,000 from 
the university, a debt which it has yet to pay off in full. 

In 1994, to ease its financial worries, the Station signed a joint 
sales agreement with General Broadcasting of Connecticut, Inc. 
(also known as 99.1 WPLR.) in which WPLR agreed to sell advertising 
time and collect advertising revenue for WYBC. In return it allocated WYBC enough money from that revenue to continue operations. 
The agreement has lightened the WYBC management's workload, 
but the terms of the arrangement hardly seem fair. According to 
Jason Knight (ES '00), head of WYBC's Gospel department, selling 
advertisements for WYBC costs WPLR virtually nothing. WYBC provides the announcers and the studio, while WPLR simply instructs its 
sales representatives to offer advertising time on 94.3 WYBC, currently the number one urban station in New Haven, while selling 
ads for WPLR. From this joint sales agreement, WPLR makes $1.5 to 
$2 million a year-nearly all profit-$300,000 of which goes to 
WYBC. Knight contends that $300,000, even budgeted well, barely 
covers basic operations, let alone one-time events or equipment 
purchases. This month, Knight says, "the Gospel department sponsored the largest concert in all of New Haven and I was hard pressed 
to find the $850 we needed to print up 250 free T-shirts to give away 
at the event." When WPLR refused to support the project, WYBC was 
forced to rethink its budget. "It's a shame that we had to take away 
money from other parts of our budget to do that," Knight says. 
"We had to sacrifice other goals." 

The joint sales agreement has also forced WYBC to sacrifice 
some of its programming decisions and its dedication to innovative 
programming. Six years ago, WYBC boasted 13 distinct formats, 
from indie rock to Italian folk. After the signing of the agreement 
in 1994, that number had dropped to around three besides the 
urban contemporary, hip-hop and R&B which catered to a largely 
community-based listenership. A college rock program called 
"Frequency" enjoyed a prime time slot from 9 PM to 2 AM, Monday 
through Friday, but its positioning directly after the highly rated, 
hip-hop-centric "Spectrum" alienated urban listeners, and ratings 
consistently dropped at nine. Problems came to a head in the 
spring of 1998 in a highly publicized campus controversy. WYBC's 
General Board had recently elected Emad Abdelnaby (OC '99) as its 
Program Director. Abdelnaby, an ambitious student straight off an 
internship at a large-market station in New York, responded positively to WPLR's requests that the station abandon the eclectic programming typical of college radio nationwide and adopt a single, 
market-friendly format geared towards attracting a specific audience--particularly New Haven's captive black urban populace. 

Few people know what transpired behind the Executive Office 
doors, but Abdelnaby and Michael Corwin (SM '99), the station's 
General Manager, decided that WYBC would eliminate folk, jazz and 
"Frequency" from its programming, leaving only urban-contemporary, hip-hop and gospel. The decision, in effect, would cut all but 
a handful of student DJs from the roster, leaving a cast of mostly 
black New Haven residents to dominate the station. In an unfortunate slight, though, the Executive Board neglected to tell the DJs



**WYBC: Balancing Act**
**Author: Jada Yuan**
**Page number(s): 7-9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
that they had been cut. Most showed up at the station to do their 
shows, only to find that they had been locked out of the station and 
that their access codes had been deactivated. Later, the Executive 
Board offered a select few an explanation for its actions. "They told 
us we were cut because we were unprofessional," says Rajeev 
Muttreja (SM 'oo), a former "Frequency" OJ and current OJ and 
Music Director of WYBvAM 1340. "They said that the product that 
was going out over the air wasn't ~lored to the YBC image and that 
no one was listening. We know people were listening." 

The Executive Board's heartless action, combined with exten-
sive coverage in the Yale Daily News and a sympathetic response 
&om the Yale College Council, prompted the DJs to act immedi-
ately. "A lot of students thought everything that happened to us 
was terrible," Muttreja says. "We sent out a petition for 3 days and 
got some 1.,000 signatures." Four months later, in April 1998, the 
DJS held an impeachment hearing for Abdelnaby, carrying the 
motion by an overwhelming 45-1. vote. However, by-laws stating 
that a certain percentage of the members had to be present barred 
his actual removal. 

In response to the student uproar, WYBC moved to buy a sec-
ond frequency dedicated to free-form expression. With the newly 
urban contemporary and hip-hop 94·3 JIM rargetting New Havens 
1 ~ously untapped black market and generating unprecedented 
. ~gs and revenue, the second station, AM 1340, could operate on 
rdacively low budget supported by the PM station, and thereby be 
from market restraints. 

Unfortunately for the tender relations between the students 
and the community members at the station, the AM 1340 frequency 
pursued by WYBC had previously belonged to WNHC, the only 
lllinority-owned and operated station in the city. According to 
Corwin, who was still managing WYBC during the AM 1340 take-
over, WNHC "wasn't serving the community that well. They had 
IOine syndicated home shopping nerwork, some urban program-
ming. which is usually not successful on an AM sration, and some 
talk shows that were biased and nor professionally done." When 
lrNHc declared bankruptcy in the spring of 1998, WYBC saw a solu-
tion to its problems and jumped at the chance to enter the bidding 
~. WYBC's main competition came from Bucldey Broadcasting. 
1tbich, Corwin says, made no commitment to broadcast local shows 
and which has "a history of trying to put on syndicated talk shows 
throughout the state, one of which is Bob Grant, who is known to 
S~ERIO,I999 
WYBC has many groups 
to please, but can all 
things be considered? 
be a racist." During negotiations, WYBC made clear at public meet-
ings that its aims for the AM station included not only expanding 
student programming. but also maintaining some talk shows and 
religious programs previously aired on WNHC. The station has since 
kept its promise and now airs shows such as "Teen Talk," "Youth 
Action Christian Communication" and a five-hour gospel broadcast 
on Sunday afrernoons to complement the PM station's 1. AM to 11. PM 
gospel show. In addition, the PM station donates, as it did then, 25 
percent or S250,ooo worth of commercial time to local, non-profit 
and community service organizations. That averages to about 12. 
minutes of donated space per commercial block (WPLR's main com-
petitor, 101.3 WKCI, donates 10 minutes a day), making WYBC the 
station most dedicated to public service not just in New Haven, but 
in the e11tire state. 

Despite such demonstrations of the station's commitment to 
WNH:C programming and to community affairs, and despite the 
undesirability of the alternative, WYBc's purchase of AM 1340 in June 
1998 met with stark opposition. Community members seemed 
unable to sepuate their negative image of Yale from their image of 
the sration only loosely associated widl it, and many joined a hell-
bent, but wildly misinform~ Reverand A1 Sharpton to protest 
Yale's theft of the community voice. 


W 
HAT MANY NEW HAVEN RSSIDI!NTS view as the commu-
nity voice can be found ~arly in the WYBC office. 
Doc Percival, or Doc P. as he's known in the disc jockey 
world, has been coming to work at the FM sration nearly every day 
for the past three years. Doc is only one of many New Haven res-
idents who, either following their dreams- to become professional 
disc jockeys or simply wanting to express th~ir views, make their 
way to WYBC for training and ajr time: Wofking towards its goal of 
"bringing students and New Haven residents -together for the bet-
terment of both," the station opens its doo~to all and provides the 
kind of professional training that othe.nwise would cost its members 
thousands of dollars ar the Conneticut School of Broadcasting. 

Joining Doc at WYBC F.M are prominent public figures, ambitious 
Yale OJS, and a mix of black and white youth. Doc's dedication, 
though, sets him apart from them all. On weekdays, Doc actives 3 
or 4 hours early to work as the paid, part-time Music Director. He's 
on the air every weekday from 5 to 7 PM during commuter "drive-
time" and every Friday with his best friend, Stevie D., on their show 
"Friday Night Dance Party," which is the most popular show in the 
city from 9 PM to 2. AM. 

Doc and Stevie use their air time to promote the SM Crew, or 
Sound Masters, an organization of "socially-minded disc jockeys" 
that Doc founded 2.0 years ago. The group, which releases p6si-
tivdy-charged mix tapes and singles for underground distribution, 
includes Stevie, who also works as Community Representative to 
the WYBC Executive Board, and Castillo, who struggled through his 
own involvement in drugs and gangs. This spring they released a 

**Title: Work for the New Journal!**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Work for the New Journal! 
The New Journal· is looking .for savvy writers, cuHing-edge designers, innovative 
photographers, dynamic production staff, business tycoons, and web wizards. 
TNJ Information Sessions 
Tusday, September 7 
8PM in the Pierson Common Room 
and 
Wednesday, September 8 
8PM in the Davenport Common Room 
For more info call Michael at 6-31 09 or email tni @yale.edu 


**Title: Conventional Wisdom**
**Author: Whitney Grace**
**Page number(s): 11**

~ 
Conventional Wisdom , 
Photos and Text by Whitney Grace 



**Title: St. Brendan's Convent**
**Page number(s): 12**

S 
T. BRENDANS CONVENT IS A SMALL BRICK BUILDING ON A HILL, sheltered from the daily 
noise and activity ofWhalley Avenue. It is home to six women, formally called the Sisters 
of Our Lady of the Garden. They came from Argentina, Paraguay, Italy and India. They 
devote their lives to one mission: "to work courageously, energetically, and perseveringly, 
bringing Christ's love and spirit to those to whom they are sent." They are proud of the work 
they do, and of the lives they touch. They walk the halls of St. Brendan's Convent, pointing 
with pride to delicate portraits of their founder, St. Anthony Maria Gianelli, and of their 
namesake, Our Lady of the Garden. They generously open the doors to their chapel and to 
the elementary school they have been running in New Haven since 197 4· 

These women are not foreign to the curiosity with which most people see them. One sis-
ter laughs as she describes children too young to be polite, who gasp when they see that Sister 
Natalfn lives in a house and sleeps in a bed just as anyone else does. Just like anyone else, these 
sisters go grocery shopping. They watch television. They even take care of a dog named Toby. , 

Sister Natalin is eager to guide the camera to the most "normal" aspects of her life. Again, she 
says with a laugh, "I take all kinds of these pictures with my students." 

The Sisters of Our Lady of the Garden put their energy into teaching their young students, 
and travelling the world in order to recruit women to join them in their mission. They do not 
concern themselves with the reasons why their lifestyle or their mission may seem puzzling to 
outsiders. Instead, they welcome these outsiders without a second thought. As one sister says, 
"What we do here is nothing strange. It is simply a matter of faith.,, 


No content was provided for pages 13, 14, and 15.  Therefore, no articles or advertisements can be transcribed.


**Title: Labor Ready finds jobs for New Haven's down and out, but whose interests does it really serve?**
**Author: Daniel Brook**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
:· 
Labor Ready finds jobs for New Haven's down and out, 
but whose interests does it really serve? 
x6 
D 
UANE'S FATHER, AN .ARKANsAS SHARECROPPER, came tO 
New Haven to escape the hopeless economic prospects 
back home. An unskilled worker, he was able to find a 
steady job as a metal worker in a union shop in the North. Today 
he is retired with a pension. Ironically, in present-day New Haven, 
Duane faces the same economic desperation his father faced down 
South. 

I met Duane at 5=30 in the morning at the new Labor Ready 
branch on Chapel Street. At that hour, even the Dunkin' Donuts on 
the corner had yet to open. Labor Ready is a national chain of temp 
agencies specializing in unskilled and low-skilled workers. Duane 
was one of the hopefuls who went there looking for work the morn-
ing I dropped by. 

At dawn, seven days a week, workers show up in front of the 
store. Most are young African-American men like Duane, though a 
grandmotherly looking black woman and a number of Latinos were 
there that morning as well. The man behind the counter was white 
and wore the unofficial uniform of all middle managers--a dress


lbirt, tic and a pair of Dockers. Duane and the others signed in at 
S:JO AM in the hope of getting an opportunity to work for an aver-
IF of $6.30 an hour (about $SO a day before taxes), minw twO to 
cbrec dollars for transportation and two dollars for required equip-
ment (like gloves). At the end of the day, cashing checks at the ATM 
in the office will take another $1.50 out of the men's pay and back 
into Labor Ready's coffers. The glossy management newsletter gives 
updates on which branches have the highest percentage of workers 
llling the ATMS, interspersed with inspirational quotations from 
1Vas Robcns' bcstsdlcr u44ership S«rns of Ani/4 the Hun. 

Duane had worked through Labor Ready for the past few days 
doing demolition work at the old SNET building downtown, but he 
llill had to show up at six to notify the manager that he was willing 
ID work again today. Labor Ready hires only one day at a time and 
~~quires all workers to arrive by six so they can get to work on time. 
That Duane's work was only a ten minute walk from the store did 
1a0t merit an cxccption. Employment is stricdy daily and, as far as 
t.bor Ready is concerned, the day StartS at six sharp and ends with 
s..n.ou 10, 1999 
by Daniel Brook 
a paycheck. "I call it the economic principle of beer," CI!O Glen 
Wdstad told For!Hs magazine, believing that most of his loyal 
employees work solely to pay for their nighdy alcohol fix. "Work 
Today, Paid Today" is the company slogan. At least the one they dis-
play to workers. To potential clients the slogan is "Temporary 
Labor-On Demand." 

Labor Ready recruits its clients through telemarketing. asking 
companies large and small whether they have need of readily dis-
posable workers. Labor Ready's branch managers say they start cold 
calling at s AM each day; in company literature, CI!O Wdstad 
promises that "if you arc not 100 percent satisfied with the work 
performed by an individual, notify Labor Ready within the first 
two-hour period-you won't be billed for their time and we will 
assign you a replacement worker.• Labor Ready ac:ts as the direct 
employer, making it liable for payroll taxes and workers' compensa-
tion should anyone get hurt. (A sign at the Chapel Street office 
proudly proclaimed that it has not had an accident in 39 days.) 

Clients simply pay Labor Ready a fcc, at least twice what each


5:15AM 
Even though Labor Ready officially opens for 
buslneas at six In the morning, the real line, as 
veterans will tall you, begins outside at 5:30, 
sometimes even earlier. At 5:15, there are already 
six names on the list of. thosa willing to work. The 
lucky first, Sean, arrived today at 4:30. But even 
Sean Is not guaranteed a job. In fact, he will sit 
hera today almost as long as I will. 

The drill at any of Labor Ready's hundreds 
of offices nationwide Ia the same. After putting 
your nama down on the sign-In sheet, all you can 
do Is walt. And the walt, as you learn, Is what 
saparatas those who will work today from thosa 
who will not. 

Today Is my third cllly at Labor Ready. 

8:57AM 
7:28AM 
Having come twice In the last -k without get-
ting one of the scare. work assignments the 
Chapel Street oflloe receives dally, tw come 
even earlier, but ptOapecta look doubtful. Already, 
saveral people are Nated lmpetlantly. Jn the wait-
Ing area. Two hope~ are asleep; others pass 
the time by watching the 1Y In tile comer, drink-
Ing old coffee, reeding the stray newspaper left In 
the office from yesterday, going In and out of the 
office for cigarettes. Luckily, the TV offers ample 
amusamenta. WTNH, ABC's N- Haven affiliate, 
broadcasts live n-• for the first hours of the 
waking day. Dr. Mal, the station's chipper meteo-
rologist, cornea on (as promised) every ten mln-
utea with an updated forecast. Sho-rs, It 
seems, are the order of the day. 

On any glv.en day-Labor Ready's work weak 
"begins on Saturday and ends on Frlday"-two 
or three new faces will appear among the regu-
lars, who can be expected to show up at 5:30 on 
the dot, regardleaa of thalr dally claims to be 
finding steady' jobs. And yet, w. are all, n-com-
ers and regulars alike, dressed atmllarly: feded, 
paint-stained pants, worn work boots, baseball 
caps, white and gray khlrts. We form an odd 
chorus line. rocking back and fOrth In the plastic 
white patio chairs arranged In rows, gossiping 
about new work ......,._,ts, looking nervously 
over our shoulders at the boss' every movement. 

Behind the Imposing gray desk alta Chris, the 
Chapel Street office manager, taking each Infre-
quent phone call with the same monotonous 
greeting: "Thank you for calling Labor Ready, 
working savan days a weak." Besides me, he Ia 
the only white person In the room, somehow out 
of place In his shirt and tla among the dingy and 
dozing. He Ia like a machine. Bearded, stout and 
sickeningly comfortable In his rolling chair: the 
object of our simultaneous hope and despair. He 
an.-rs the phone alertly, regardle .. of the 
hour; dodges evan the most respectful Inquiry 
Into the day's proapecta; tells us to finish the pot 
of coffee before he will head to the supply room 
for another filter. As the hours pus, Chris's 
rehearsed -Jcome becomes a kind of deceitful 
mantra, promising hope to the Ng8l' llatanara 
hanging on every wo'"but ~ 
t.w jobs In 
return. Working aevllft_.,dliya • -et, 
ng 
saven days a wealc.f 
Charles GlbiiOn and ot.nne S8wyaf from 
Good Morning Af1!lll!Ca ara-cltacU .. Ing a rMent 
study by the Yale School of Man.gement tf.at 
shoWs an unprac:edel\tad wave of~­
anger. Charlie looks lnt~»'h ~ 
~ 
confidence, holding my gaze. Such findings, 
according to him, are surprising, arriving along-
aide an all-time low In unemployment among 
Amerlean workers. 

Temporary Insanity 
worker gets paid, and tell the workers what to do. According to 
branch managers, most New Haven clients are small businesses, 
though larger ones, like Yale, which uses Labor Ready workers for 
housekeeping, come calling as well. 

But where do all the workers come from? New Haven is home 
to two of Labor Ready's over 6oo storefronts. One is located on 
Grand Avenue right down the street from a homeless shelter. The 
second-the Chapel Street location-was opened to attract those 
who spend their nights on the Green. The official corporate litera-
ture covers up their workers' situations with statements like 
"Whether you're off for the summer, worlcing part time, or just 
want to make a few extra dollars on evenings or weekends, we can 
make it happen." This list of categories did not appear to fit any of 
the workers I saw. Labor Ready's public relations department may 
have the luxury of harboring such intentional misconceptions, but 
the local New Haven management do not. As former branch man-
ager Norm Slifkin put it, "the majority of the people working here 
are hand-to-mouth." The new Chapel Street branch manager, Chris 
18 
Peterson, put it even more blundy. "Ifl need 100 people here on an 
hour's notice, I can do that," he said proudly. "How?" I asked. 
"Easy. Call the battered women's shelter." 

Along with using such vulnerable people comes the temptation 
to exploit them--even beyond the fullest extent of the law. A recent 
Department of Labor investigation of a Labor Ready branch in 
New London resulted in nearly s1o,ooo in fines for rune violations, 
including failure to pay wages on time and charging illegal trans-
portation fees. In only the first half of this year, the Occupational 
Safety and Health Administration has investigated eleven accidents 
at Labor Ready and filed 23 reports on the company. 

Despite facts like these, which might suggest to the uninitiat-
ed that Labor Ready treats its workers-or "raw material" as a 
recent Forb~s company profile put it-like, well, raw material, the: 
branch managers I spoke with claim quite the opposite. According 
to Southern Connecticut District Manager Bill Welch, "Other 
operations that do what we do treat their workers like din. They 
have bulletproof glass up and the workers push the paperwork



**Title: 1:31AM**
**Author: Ronen Givony**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
1:31AM 
Mr flrat visit, I !WC811 now, was "rlly similar, get-
tklg me little other than tour hours In en uncom-
IDrtable ch8lr, bed c:oltM .net some angry con-
vwutlon. After showing two forms of 
Identification, and completing the brief open-
book Nfety quiz from a bulky Ubor Reedy 
binder-with Instructions c:orwenlently In English 
.net Spenlan-c:.m. my flrat Introduction to the 
clrMded Labor Ready walt. Mit's 811 a game," a 
long time temp expl81ned: wean you walt longer 
then the nigger sitting next to you?" 
Quntlonlng the walt, It ... ms, Is fu111e: 
Rule 11 of the tour cardln81 Labor ANdy rule-
•Don't tell me how to do my )ob"-iMans that 
pllllntive Inquiries about Job sites, wortt ... lgn-
ments, end availability, will not be tolerated. Still, 
Reymond, the man sitting to my rlgh1, yells over 
Ills shoulder: "Yo Chris, -
gonna work today or 
whet? Shltl" Hours or prospects do not change 
here at Labor Ready, only the day. As Chris him-
Mit will tell you-ftpe8tedly-4he jobs are not his 
lo -.lgn. All he can do Is respond to the calls he 
Neelves. 


10:09AM 
Controversy. An office manager In Hamden has 
called and asked for thr .. workers to come and 
move furniture. A mlnu1e later, he calls back, and 
his mind has changed: unhappy with the Labor 
Reedy workers he employed the previous week, 
he only wants two now. S..n and another man 
stand up and pick up their belongings, eager to 
begin work, only to IMrn that Chris has chosen 
two men who came In later. Donning their extra-
large blue Labor Ready t-shlrts, the two lucky 
ones walk hastily out of the room. Frustrated and 
tired, -
all sit back down, not quite surprised. 
Chris has been known to choose his own per-
sonal favorites over those with, say, bad breath 
or hostile attitudes. 
On Llvef wfth Regia and Kathie Lee, Miss 
T"n USA, a recent high school graduate from 
Del-are, announces to the world that she 
strives to combat teenage drug use and, eventu-
ally, help bring about world peace. She plans to 
study economics next year. 


12:01 PM 
Besides me, two other people are left. AI, a pre-
maturely graying man In his early forties with 
whom I've been taking smoke breaks outside, 
says he's had it. "Fuckln' A, man. Same shit 
everyday. I've had It, you know what I'm saying? 
These people rob you, you know what I'm say-
Ing? I've had it. I'm going to Hamden, get me a 
real job." I nod my assent, end try to forget that 
this Ia the same speech, nearly verbatim, that AI 
gave me yesterday. 
We walk back Inside, and AI goes to the 
rear to retrieve his bike, which he says Chris only 
reluctantly allows his to leava In the office. Only 
one parson, Sean, still remains, nodding oft every 
so often and then shaking awake wilh a violent 
jerk. I take one final look around the office, hold-
Ing the door open for AI, surveying the colored 
signs lining the otherwise plain office: "Are you a 
Premium Worker?" one asks. Most alarming Is a 
sign adjacent to the fingerprint-smudged six foot 
mirror, from which I can see a blurry reflection of 
myself: "Would you hire this parson?"


**Title: Labor Ready**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

by Ronen Givony 
under it. We're concerned about our workers. We give away free cof-
fee and provide an open, airy space." Still, the walls of the open, 
airy, bulletproof glass-free space are covered in signs with respeccful 
words of encouragement like "You are terminated if you tell me 
how to do my job." I understood why this might be such a com-
mon problem only when I saw the manager assign work seemingly 
at random, completely disregarding the order in which people 
showed up and signed in. Another demeaning sign rests above the 
coffee maker: "If you cannot clean-up after yourself then you will 
not be able to consume food or beverages here in the building. 
labor Ready provides coffee for you the workers, it is a privilege 
that can be taken away if you can not [sic] clean up after yourself 
[aic]. There will be no excuses, if you have any questions please ask 
a member of the Labor Ready staff." Despite the errors, the work-
en pour their coffee with paranoid care, their backs to the manag-
er, never knowing whether he's watching or not. It is interesting that 
a company which demands that its workers show up every morning 
at six makes such a big deal out of its generosity in bestowing cof-
fee and non-dairy creamer. Other signs are merely short, emphatic 
Statements, such as "INJURED WORKERS WILL BE TESTED FOR DRUGS 
AND ALCOHoL!" If Labor Ready were as concerned about its work-
ers as it claims it would test them before sending them out-and 
not make the safety quiz open-book. 
SltPTEMBER 10, 1999 
Despite its meteoric rise, Labor Ready remains out of sight and 
therefore out of mind to all but the poorest and wealrhiesr among 
us. While its Chapel Street storefront is only half a block from the 
Yale campus, it is well-known to the homeless bur rarely noticed by 
students. Hedge fund managers, though, have taken an interest in 
Labor Ready, known as "LRw" on the New York Stock Exchange. Of 
late, Labor Ready, Inc. has become the darling of rhe business press. 
A glowing article appeared in Forb~s last year declaring "Labor 
Ready finds work for felons, drunks and homeless people. No,' it's 
not a charity. It is a real business." Businesswuk likewise hailed the 
company-though in a more restrained manner-with the paren-
thetical praise that it was "(nonunion, needless ro say)." And just 
last month, Fortune named Labor Ready the seventh fa.nest-

--- Page 20 ---

growing company in America. Peterson too 
seemed aware of his company's corporate 
prowess. "This company reminds me a lot 
of McDonalds," he said with pride. Indeed, 
the xo-year-old Tacoma-based company 
employs over half a million people each 
year, easily making it one of the largest pri-
vate employers in the country. By contrast, 
its better known Seattle-Tacoma area 
neighbor (and fellow Chapel Street resi-
dent) Starbucks employs only 26,ooo. 
Labor Ready, which anticipates revenues in 
excess of $1 billion next year recently 
jumped from the NASDAQ to the NYSE, 
where it has been a favorite ofWall Street. 
It was recently picked by Kiplingn-'s as a 
"Smart Move for 1999" because, as a stock 
analyst told the publication, "the trend 
toward outsourcing continues to be very 
powerful." The quotation echoed a Labor 
Ready manager I talked to who bragged 
that "we're growing and everyone else is 
downsizing. And if you get downsized, 
where else can you go?" 
What is so cunningly twisted about 
Labor Ready is that it both feeds off this 
trend and contributes to it. A firin that 
finds its worlters in homeless shelters 
depends on a lack of decent jobs for 
unskilled people, and yet, simply by exist-
ing it helps eliminate any remaining decent 
jobs for the unskilled. In fact, Labor 
Ready's corporate literature all but tells 
companies to downsize their least-skilled 
employees. "We pay all taxes and insur-
ance," a Labor Ready brochure crows. "You 
are no longer obligated for: Health Care 
Premiums, Life Insurance Payments, 
Pension Plan Deposits [or] Paid Tune-
Off." The brochure does not say "you will 
not be obligated for," but rather you will 
"no longer [be] obligated for," assuming 
that until Labor Ready is called in these 
workers have health coverage, pensions and 
the like. Needless to say, Labor Ready will 
not provide these benefits for the employ-
ees. No one will, and therein lies the 
savings. 
As more and more people are down-
sized and replaced with Labor Ready 
temps, the ranks of homeless and impover-
ished-the very people Labor Ready places 
in day jobs--grow. The only way homeless 
people or battered women will escape their 
situation is through decent jobs which give 
them the financial independence to better 
their situation. Labor Ready both makes 
sure such jobs become fewer and fewer and 


--- Page 21 ---

uses the desperate populations the destruc-
tion of such jobs creates. 
This cycle is unstoppable, as Peterson 
explained: "Say the government starts 
requiring employers of more than ten peo-
ple to provide health care." This proposal is 
not so hypothetical: a similar one was part 
of the 1992 Clinton healthcart plan. 
Presumably this policy would be enacted to 
counter the corporate war on worker 
benefits which Labor Ready is at the fore-
front of fighting. By passing such a law, the 
government would provide health care for 
millions of uninsured workers at large com-
panies. At least it would on paper. "How 
do you get around it?" Peterson continued. 
•catl up Labor Ready," he says-and 
replace your full-time staff with temps. 
It was easy to see how this theory was 
put into practice when I spoke with James, 
another young black man at Labor Ready. 
James had first come to Labor Ready six 
months ago. The company placed him in a 
temp job with a company that liked his 
work and decided to hire him. Only six 
months later he had been downsized and 
was back where he started, at Labor Ready, 
working one day at a time for low pay and 
no benefits. With a service like Labor 
Ready around, many companies have no 
reason to give out steady jobs. Still, those 
companies deserve our deepest sympathies, 
according to Peterson. "It's hard for com-
panies to make money. It really is," he told 
me as he looked out over a room of people 
who had been waiting for three hours to 
find a day's work. 
But Labor Ready is not one of those 
companies in dire straits. Its unique ability 
both to contribute to and benefit from the 
economic and social degradation of 
America's cities has kept its profits growing 
and its stock price rising. Senator Phil 
Gramm once observed that "if America is 
to be saved, it will be saved at a profit." 
That may or may not be true. What Labor 
Ready makes certain, however, is the 
reverse: if America is to be ruined, it will be 
ruined at a profit. 
li1J 
AmieJ Brook, a senior in Davenport coJI~ge, 
is 11 M a114ging Editor of TN]. 


**Title: BOYS UNDER THE**
**Author: Bill Bascus**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
NEIGHBOR BACK HOME IN SEATrLE-pudgy and mid-
CUC:-at~~ed.·-JUSt sprang for a shiny new pair of MOMO 
.....,;~~ •• , ..... ,"' wheels for his otherwise run-of-the-mill Acura. 
I usually ignored customized cars, despite the countless times I'd 
watched some souped-up Honda or Mazda fly down Elm Street, 
determined to get through the Yale campus as fast as possible. Those 
cars, with their noisy mufflers and deeply tinted windows, were 
worlds apart from my neighbor, with his prim house and trimmed 
hedges. Customizing a car seems to take a considerable bit of inside 
knowledge. I can't just go down to Sears and pick up a couple of 
racing wheels while my tires are being rotated. So what's the appeal? 
Wheels are wheels, as distinctive from one another as pots in a 
kitchen: ·some are shinier than others. Customized cars seem tacky 
and self destructive; my high school classmates and I had watched 
in horror as a friend "raced out" his Honda Accord by lowering it, 
drilling holes in it, painting the whole thing silver and plastering it 
with decals. · 

Looking for an explanation, I found myself in a tiny tint shop 
at the corner of an empty lot in Hamden. It drew me in because it 
also advertised motor-sports, and I was hoping to find, afrer a little 
exploration, a performance Civic being tuned, or a giant gold-plat-
ed Cadillac having a new muffler installed. But it was a small place. 
A really small place. I stepped inside and found myself in the 
garage, where two men with spray bottles were installing tint on a 
two-door Dodge Neon. Though it was a garage, someone with 
domestic instincts had tried to create a waiting area, setting out two 
chairs and some magazines by the door. This small space was filled 
by two young girls, poured into striped tops and tight black pants. 
Apparently, the one clutching the huge set of keys with the glow-in-
the-dark key ring reading "sEXY" owned the Neon. 

I had a feeling that the tint shop was not the type of place I was 
looking for, although tint was a good start. The place sold alarms, 
10 I asked to have a look at some systems that could speak, think-
ing they would be a pretty good addition to a souped-up car. One 
of the installers, still holding a spray bottle, started to show me, but 
jUSt then, a man in an overcoat carrying an armload of stereo boxes 
stuck his head in the door, and asked if we could "use anything 
today." My guy with the spray bottle took a look at the man in the 
overcoat, looked at me, and then said back, "Sorry man, not today." 
rm back on the bus to Lanman-Wright before I realize why a stereo, 
alarm and tint store would not want the man's stereos. 

S 
lNCE THE BASS-PUMPING SPEAKERS of these cars can often be 
heard before the car is seen, I checked out a real stereo shop far-
rhcr up Dixwell, with a little more success. Sam, the owner of the 
shop, was an excitable guy who had been installing stereos for a 
lrhile, but was most proud of installing a bomb detecting system in 
a car years ago. 

I was a little disappointed that the only project in the shop's 
prage was a Dodge Caravan waiting for a radar detector. Still, he 
showed me pictUreS of cars he had worked on, some of which were 
downright impressive. He flaunted a photo of a Honda Prelude 
whose back seat had been replaced with speakers twice the size of 
Illy head. The trunk was filled with amplifiers and other stereo 
equipment, all mounted and displayed under plexiglass. The amps 
&ot so hot that they had to have their very own ventilation system. 
I found what I had come to see when I convinced Sam to take 
llle into the demo room where I could listen to some of those 
siant speakers. Sam preferred to play jazz, but at my 
~uest, we sampled a CD of his entitled "12. Bass Hits." 

That's how I learned that even a song called "The Bitch Role" (as in 
"everyone's gotta play the bitch role") could be beautiful if it could 
be played loud enough. The glass walls shook violently until Sam 
jumped to move a speaker. In sound competitions, he told me, peo-
ple have to hold the car windows in with towels to keep them from 
exploding from the pressure. 

(( D
ETROIT HAS TO WORRY ABOUT HOW THEY SELL A CAR. but just 
about anything you do to your own car is completely legal," 
said an amateur racer who had come to eat at the restaurant where 
I parked cars. He was more into NASCAR-type competition, into 
horsepower, engine noise and size. He drove a Mustang that had 
apparently been souped-up quite a bit. I decided that it must have 
been in the early stages of enhancement since I had a hard time 
keeping it running while I parked it, so I don't know if I complete-
ly trust the advice he gave me. I was skeptical when he suggested I 
paint a scuffed bumper with a can of spray paint. I did, and 
although I followed his Miyagi-like instructions (sand, wash, sand, 
wash, ad. naus~am), I came out with a runny, bubbly mess that only 
vaguely resembled the shape and color of my bumper. I ended up 
having to get the whole thing repainted, which cost far more at that 
point than it would have had I taken the scuffed bumper to be 
fixed. So I cettainly didn't believe the racer when he said putting a 
tank of nitrous oxide in the trunk of a car not only makes the car 
go faster, but is also legal. 

Nitrous, which gets you high-
er than a kite at the dentist's 
office, did turn out to be 
legal. Still, it was 
hard to find car-


**Title: Very ~ Like a \IV hale**
**Author: John Swansburg, Jr.**
**Page number(s): 25-26**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Very ~ Like a \IV hale
by John Swansburg, Jr. 
C
ALL ME BACK. Some days ago—
never mind how many precisely—
having a little money in 
my pocket, and a little time on my hands, 
I thought I would go purchase a coffee. It is 
a way I have of driving off the spleen, and 
~ating the circulation. Whenever I find 
myself growing grim about the mouth; whenever
it is a damp, drizzly September in my soul; when
I find myself involuntarily falling asleep while the sun 1;:.s ....... 
DOt far past its noon pinnacle in the sky, and especially when the 
weight of my responsibilities becomes so great a load that I feel even 
the shoulders of Atlas himself might buckle under such a pressure, 
then, I account it high time to get a coffee. With a philosophical 
ftourish Cato throws himself upon his sword; I quietly imbibe a cup 
of java. There is nothing surprising in this. If they but knew it, 
almost all men in their degree, some time or other, cherish very 
nearly the same feeling toward that magical bean with me. 


Circumambulate the city of New Haven of a rainy Tuesday 
afternoon. Go from the comer of Elm Street and York and from 
there southward, to another corner, that where College and Chapel 
Stteets converge. Go eastward to Whitney Avenue and, a step or 
two to the south again, to Audubon Street. What do you see?—
hundreds upon hundreds of men filling the sundry coffee purvey-
ors in the city, indulging in caffeinated reveries. Some holed up in 
dark corners sipping still darker brew, some, beturtlenecked, sitting 
with mannequin stillness in a street side window, some reclining 
like Romans on deep sofas, some walking and quaffing simultaneously, 
risking a stain and a sting if a wave of that scalding beverage 
breaks like a swell over the side of dueling cardboard cups. 


It was in an effort to emulate these masses that I encountered 
that most impudent and curt retort with which I began, and now I 
find myself quite unable to shake its din from my ears when thinking
on coffee matters: Call me back. Yes, these were the words, 
uttered in a most frustrated tone, by one I had heretofore esteemed 
quite highly. It happened thusly: I had been endeavoring to begin 
this, my latest coffee consumption, making my way to a renowned 
Idler of the bean, a seller by the name of Atticus. Named for the 
Greek orator, in our century this man provided poets and the students of poetry with 
coffee. Approaching this familiar locale, 
however, my eyes met with quite a sur-
prise indeed. I knew the familiar sellers 
of coffee in New Haven: the aforemen-
tioned Atticus; Duncan Donut, merchant 
of a simple but tasty beverage and inventor of a 
piece of fried dough, circular, with a hole in the middle and a handle for dipping; and Willoughby, a 
Connecticut Yankee with a blend as strong and bold as his business 
sense. But I cannot well describe my surprise when off the starboard 
side of Atticus' walls I spied a name I knew well: Starbuck. 


I was familiar with the exploits of this Starbuck from a fascinating
account of his actions as first mate aboard a ship, named the 
Pequod, by one Herman Melville. Truly a fascinating document. 
Why, then, stood I so transfixed by the name I saw there in a green 
contrasting Atticus' vermilion? Well, Mr. Melville has the good 
Starbuck drowning with the rest of the Pequod's crew at the end of 
his vast and exhaustive account, the victim of Moby Dick and the 
Captain who hunted that huge white whale. 


I resolved to research this Starbuck and his biographer Melville. 
It seems that the man I took to be so meticulous a chronicler in fact 
made many grave and outrageous errors in his account. 


Through the perusal of several pertinent documents—documents
perfectly available to Mr. Melville, documents left untouched 
by him either out of incompetence or indolence—I discovered, 
astonishingly, that the albino whale chronicled by Melville haunted 
not the Atlantic, but rather breached and spyhopped off the coast 
of Chile. So remiss is Melville that he even mismonikers his whale: 
the whale's name was not Moby Dick. No, for when first that white 
fluke saluted a pair of human eyes—surely sending the owner of 
those eyes nearly over the side of his crow's nest in stupefaction—it 
was off the coast of the Mocha Islands. The crew of that ship had 
the honor of naming the white whale Mocha Dick. This mistake 
appears all the more egregious when one considers that Melville visited
Chile before writing what I had taken for an accurate account, 
but which was in fact so rife with incongruities that it could be


Herman Melville had his eye on Starbuck's exploits long before we did. 


Entering Starbuck's new digs, I mused 
that perhaps the switch was not so strange 
at all; coffee is an exotic libation, growing 
most prosperously and deliciously in the 
climes a veteran salt knows well. Knowing 
Mr. Starbuck to be saltier than 
Lot's wife, I was not awed by 
the fact that his nautical 
life seemed to be 
stamped upon his 
new one: even the 
emblem of his coffee-
house features a 
ship's masthead. 
The selections of 
coffee, their names 
spelled out above 
the store's counter, 
read like a whaler's 
passpon (had whalers carried 
such documents): 
"Columbia Narino Supremo," 
"Arabian Mocha Java," "Sumatra," and 
even one named after that bane of the 
ancient mariner, "Siren's Note Blend." By 
far the most prevalent word to be seen on 
the menu, however, was "mocha." 


Starbuck, though now safe on land, clearly 
was still haunted by that fateful attack by 
Mocha Dick. I pitied the man. 


At that moment I was jarred from my 
ruminations by the green-aproned young 
man behind the counter, whose name tag 
showed that he, like the coffee, had foreign 
origins, though Pierre's were presumably 
more European. "Can I help you with anything?" 
Pierre asked. I asked him if it might 
be possible to speak with the proprietor of 
the store. "Why, is there something wrong, 
sir?" the young man responded, apparently 
troubled by my request. I assured Pierre 
that I merely wanted to meet the man. 


Somewhat reluctantly he informed me that 
the store's owner was most easily reached 
via telephone, and that he was usually not 
in the store proper. He gave me the number
and a quizzical look that I resented. 


Convinced of Melville's incompetence, I was thus
assured that New Haven's newest coffee trader was indeed the former
first mate of said P~quod as I had suspected, though I was unable to
turn up any documents which confirmed that he had escaped watery
peril, either via rescue by the Rach~/ or otherwise. To learn of his
escape and investigate his strange switch from harpooning to
percolating, I resolved to visit Mr. Starbuck. 


To learn of his escape and investigate his strange switch 
from harpooning to percolating, I resolved 
to visit Mr. Starbuck. 


Made all the more curious by my visit 
to his shop, I telephoned Starbuck forthwith. A harried voice, sounding a bit 
younger than I had expected, answered the 
phone: "Starbucks New Haven." 


"Good day, Mr. Starbuck," I cheerily 
began, "I do not mean to take up too much 
of your valuable time, but I am what you 
might call a f.ut of yours. I wondered if you 
could recount for me how it was you 
escaped the sinking of the P~quod. That 
Melville character sure has the 
story wrong. And I am fascinated by what has 
brought you 
to become 
a seller 
of ... " 


"What?" 


"I have read 
of your exploits, 
Mr. Starbuck, in 
Herman Melville's 
rather shoddy ... " 


"My name is 
Billy Hawthorne, I am 
the owner/operator of 
Starbucks New Haven. If 
you are interested in finding ... " 


"I can understand your desire to use a 
pseudonym, to put your past behind you, 
Mr. Starbuck, but ... " 


"My name is Bill, bud, not Starbuck." 


"You are not Starbuck, former first 
mate of the P~quod?" 


"Listen, I am a very busy man. I would 
be happy to talk to you about our new 
Starbucks location in New Haven, but 
you're going to have to call me back, I am 
late to a meeting." 


"New location?" 


"You're going to have to call me back. • 


"But you are not ... " 


"Call me back." 


And with that he hung up the phone. 


Call me back! Why, Hagar's son would 
have felt more welcome in the tent of 
Sarah! My astonishment as a result of his 
impudence, his absolute disregard for my 
inquiries, was only outdone by my shock at 
the fact that this man was not Starbuck at 
all, but just some money grubber looking 


to double his ducats using the good name 
of that honest sailor. The imposter! The 
charlatan! The confidence man! 


For quite a while I was rendered 
immobile by my discoveries, but soon my 
ire spurred me into action. I had to know 
more about this Starbuck's operation. New 
location? Are there others? Why had no 
one discovered this fraud? 


What I discovered knocked me to the 
deck. There are nearly 2,000 Starbucks in 
the United States alone. The corporation is 
larger than Mocha Dick himself and is 
stalking complete control over the coffee 
trade as obsessively as Ahab himself pursued
that whale. And just as a humpback 
whale, utilizing that mysterious wall, the 
baleen, devours millions of krill in one fell 
swallow, so has Starbucks consumed its 
competition. The irony! to use the first 
mate's name to conceal the captain's heart! 
It is a subterfuge both sickening and dark. 


We must not let them succeed. Some 
cities have resisted: Nantucket and New 
Bedford have not succumbed. Let us once 
again follow the lead of those bustling port
cities! Muster up a militia Willoughby! 
Form a phalanx, followers of Atticus! 
Koffee? turn your interrogative into an 
exclamation! 


I have done my part. In the darkest 
hour of the night—Jonah! it was darker 
than the innards of the Leviathan—I 
stole to Starbucks' storefront and nailed 
a sky-hawk to that false masthead. May 
Starbucks' share of the coffee trade sink like 
the ill-fated Pequod/ and may Starbucks 
meet poor Starbuck's fate. 


Czwat LectQr: While the statistics cited in 
tl,is artick art true, the convma1Wns art 
imagined. Do not malte the sa1m mistake the 
114rraror tbes: Pierre and Bi/ly Hawthorne 
~fictitious characters. -]RS Jr. 


John Swansburg, a senior in Saybrook 
Colkge, in an associate editor ofTNJ.


**Murder Under the Elms**
**Author: Anya Kamenetz**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Murder Under the Elms 
Harvard author Pamela Thomas-Graham takes a stab 
at writing a Yale murda mystery. 
by Anya Kamenetz 
Blue Blood: An Ivy League Mystery 
Pamela Thomas-Graham (Simon & Schuster, 1999), pp. 285. 
P 
AMELA THOMAS-GRAHAM employs an 
intellectual setting to lend gravitas to 
a thin plot, in her book Blue Blood: An Ivy 
League Mystey. She exploits popular atti-
tudes about the Ivy League: a mixture of 
envy and admiration. But Yale students 
looking for a trashy, escapist read will find 
that Blue Blood won't take them very far. 


Harvard BA, MBA and JD Pamela 
Thomas-Graham demonstrates limited 
knowledge of both Yale and mystery writ-
ing in her caper. This book is only the sec-
ond of what she plans as a series of who-
dunits, each set at a different Ivy League 
school. 


Our victim, conservative Yale Law 
School professor Amanda Fox, young, 
blond and gorgeous, like so many of our 
faculty, is found stabbed ro death in a poor 
black neighborhood. One of her black stu-
dents is immediately thrown in jail. Our 
heroine, Nikki Chase, a Harvard econom-
ics professor who like so many of her col-
leagues is young. black and beautiful, rush-
es to comfort the victim's husband, her old 
friend Gary Fox, dean of Branford College. 


Chase hasn't been cured of her habit of 
interfering in official police investigations 
after successfully resolving a case at 
Harvard only months before. Here in 
gloomy New Haven, she quickly finds ... 
things are not as they seem. 


Agatha Christie it isn't. Not even Sue 
Grafton. The novel's victim, Amanda Fox, 
owes her fame to being "a beautiful, smart, 
truly conserva-
tive 
woman 
being as rare 
as a canine 
who can speak." 


The same could be said of the 
author's own success. As the jacket photo 
and bio attest, Thomas-Graham is an 
attractive, young African-American woman 
who holds multiple Harvard degrees and is 
the first black woman to be named parmer 
at McKinsey and Company, the world's 
largest management consulting firm. Her 
accomplishments are so impressive that 
evaluating the book on its own merits 
seems mean-spirited. 


Nevertheless, it must be observed that 
as a writer of prose or architect of plots, 
Thomas-Graham makes a damned fine 
management consultant. Her penchant for 
cliche dictates her choice of diction, char-
acter, situation and setting. The plot points 
of the mystery can be summed up in a few 
well-worn phrases which all appear in the 
text. The murder investigation quickly 
becomes a "racial powder keg" ignited by a 
charismatic local minister, "a masterful imi-
tation of Al Sharpton." Was Amanda Fox a 
victim of a "random street crime"? Or was 
it a "coldly calculating strategy session" by 
the "Barbie .. .lacrosse-titute" who was 
sleeping with her husband? Was it the 
"twisted revenge" of a spurned lover? Or 
perhaps she was a "pawn" in the "power 
game" played by the eccentric "low-class 
hillbilly millionaire broth-
ers on the Yale Board of 
Trustees to cause her hus-
band to commit "career sui-
cide." T he possibilities are lim-
ited. 


"For a Harvard professor, 
you've been incredibly stupid," the murder-
er tells Nikki in the final confrontation, 
and the reader has to agree. Her method of 
crime-solving involves going places alone 
with suspected murderers and annoying 
them by talking about the crime until they 
hand her clues on silver platters. She then 
repeats these pieces of information to 
everyone she runs into, as though they were 
revelatory. For example, we get to hear four 
or five times that a typed suicide note is 
probably forged, and that a white man 
wearing makeup could appear to be black. 
Who knew? 


The police, meanwhile, ignore these 
obvious pieces of evidence because they 
have a black man in jail, apparendy with no 
lawyer. A common story of race and justice 
in America. To her credit, Thomas-Graham 
aims higher than the gut in this novel, rais-
ing questions of prejudice and social divi-
sion. The Yale-New Haven setting provides 
pertinent examples of the uneasy relations 
between the overprivileged and the under-
privileged. The author plays up the ironies 
Yale students encounter every day as we 
hurry past two or three homeless people on 
our way to Sterling. 


THE New jouRNAL


The book's social message, however, is 
gloued over by the general shallowness of 
the writing. Despite an overheated riot 
ICale on Cross Campus (broken up by tear 
ps!), very little seems to be at stake. There 
ia nothing in the novel to chaUenge those 
who 
consider themselves 
reasonably 
enlightened on the subject of race or class. 


Thomas-Graham misses the opportu-
aity to throw w off the trail of the mystery 
by violating our liberal assumptions about 
who is innocent and who is guilty. We 
bow the cute young football star will wind 
ap cleared of his professor's murder, and 
dae zealous minister, though fiercely pro-
lleetive of his parishioners, is ultimately on 
the side of justice. All the good guys have 
CIDrrect racial attitudes, and all the bad guys 
• 
theN-word to telegraph their malice. 


l;anhermore, Nikki's race never hampers 
~ investigation; in fact, she is able.to use 
it as a kind of backstage pass to get the 
truth out of both wary New Havcnites and 
University liberals. 


The author's reliance on easy, positive 
l'lcial stereotypes as substitutes for charac-
terization is grating at times. Nikki receives 
Yital assistance in her investiption from 
Pearl and Marva at the beauty parlor; 
l.taggie, her chicken-frying landlady; and 
lay, the wise West Indian cop. The entire 
'West Indian dialect used by the author 
CIDftlists of a single syllable: "Mon." 


Nevertheless, the most offensive 
lllaeotyping the reader will encounter in 
this mystery is of Yale and New Haven 
lbemselves. In the book's acknowlcdg-
llents, Thomas-Graham thanks seventeen 
people by name who helped her create an 
llltbentic picture of Yale. In an interview 
IIOicM on the Barnes and Noble website, 
llae states that she spent an entire semester 
~ng down to New Haven and "poking 
-.nd." This extensive research yields 
-.ny correct references, from Atticus to 
'tVoH baked ziti. There is also a hilarious 
llaJ confrontation with the murderer set at 
ie top of Harkness Tower. 


s..n..au 10, 1999 


But like the Cantab she is, Thomas-
Graham can't resist the opportunity for an 
unAattcring comparison or disparaging 
remark: "At its heart, Harvard's campus 
exuded an all-American simplicity, func-
tionality and optimism, whereas this place, 
in its soul, seemed quintessentially 
European: sophisticated, ornate and world-
weary." It is hard not to take umbrage at 
backhanded comments about the "oppres-
sive grayness and squalor of New Haven," 
with its "constant rain," "rows of boarded-
up buildings" and "deserted streets." These 
arc the kinds of characterizations that 
determine the university's public percep-
tion. Parts of the book, in fact, seem to be 
taken dirccdy from news coverage of the 
murder of Suzanne Jovin. There is the same 
shock, anxiety and feeling of invasion 
expressed by Yalies, the same deluge of 
accusations and speculation by the local 
press, the same unwillingness by the Yale 
administration to comment on anything 
related to the murder. 


The existence of our own real-life 
murder mystery has no doubt been a boon 
to sales of this book. In an online interview 
given in June, Thomas-Graham works this 
connection to the fullest. She cites the 1991 
murder of Christian Prince as one of her 
"inspirations," rubbing it in with the 
remark, "unfortunately, they [Yale] have 
had several episodes of students being 
crime victims." She brought up the Jovin 
case as well, mentioning "some incredible 
parallels with my book, even though my 
book was written before it occurred." In 
fact, the parallels, other than timing and 
setting, arc hard to see. For those of us who 
experienced the Yale community's grief last 
spring over the loss of one of our own, 
mentioning the case seems offensive and 
exploitative. Linking Blu~ Blood with any 
real tragedy, despite making a good angle 
for book publicity, lends the book more 
substance than it deserves. 


Anya Kszmmaz, a sophomo" in Davmport 
Col/eg~. is Circulation and Subscriptions 
Manag" for TNJ. 


**The Yankee Clipper's Son**
**Author: Ian Blecher**
**Page number(s): 30**

A
S A NATION TURNED ITS LONELY EYES tO the late Joe 
DiMaggio last March, a nation's tabloids were already 
training their suggestive gaze on his home life. The Yankee 
Clipper's death practically resurrected Marilyn Monroe. And for 
what? My friends, it was to stand in judgment of an American hero's 
sexual stamina. It seems poor Joltin' Joe couldn't make much of a 
spark in the bedroom. Scores of papers dredged up Oscar Levant's 
1955 quip on Monroe and Dimaggio's one-year marriage: "It simply 
proves that no man can be great at two national pastimes." 


DiMaggio, for his part, longed for a more traditional family where 
the woman didn't work (or require sexual satisfaction); he despised 
Marilyn's many gentlemen admirers. 


DiMaggio's tolerance for wives had apparently declined since 
his marriage to actress Dorothy Arnold (though she at least had quit 
her job). But even that hadn't lasted long, either. As Time described 
it in 1946, "Four and a half years, two trips co Reno, and one child." 


And what a child! A sweet little mama's boy named Joseph Jr., 
whom everybody calJed "Joey D." A kid who would have traded all 
Joe Sr.'s titanic exploits for a real father. Yes, I'm afraid the Clipper 
was almost always out to sea. As theN~ Yt1rk Post put it, "Although 
[DiMaggio] was baseball's brightest star, he never had time to play 
catch with his kid." And as usual, amidst eulogies for his father and 
replayings of "Mrs. Robinson," :ilmost everyone forgot about little 
Joey. If it had not been for the vigilant bribery of /nsitk Edition, the 
public would never have heard his side of the story. 


Deborah Norville scooped it straight out of a trailer park. Joey 
was barely 57. but he looked old enough to be his father. His nose 
glowed red against his white crew cut and pale cheeks. He was sit-
ting on a stool outside his mobile home, next co a pile of trash. And 
though I don't recall exactly what he said, his voice quavering. it was 
something along the lines of, "Surprisingly. I'm pretty happy here." 


That alone might have been impressive enough. But what really hit 
home was what he refused to talk about. His estranged wife and her 
two daughters, for one. His father, too, for the most part. Joey D. 
had been a pallbearer at the funeral. He'd loved his father, he said-
but they hadn't seen each other much. He supposed Joe Sr. was dis-
appointed in him. What was he doing. the heir to a fortune, work-
ing in a trash heap? "I don't rt"ally want to talk about it." Only then 
did Deborah throw us a real curve: this junkyard dog of a man, it 
turns out, attended Yale College. 


What happened? 


There was never enough room for Joey in the mansions of his 
youth. He was born in 1941, the year of his father's 56-game hitting 
streak. His parentS were divorced by the time he was three, and even 
before that, they hadn't been much of a family. After the break-up, 
little Joe was sent off to boarding school, then military school, and


back to boarding school. He finished at New Jersey's prestigious 
Lawrenceville Academy and entered Yale in 1961, where he seems to 
have had a relatively unremarkable freshman year. In 1962., feeling 
inadequate, he dropped out and joined the Marines. 


During this period, h.t and his new step-mom, Marilyn 
Monroe, became almost indecently close Qoe Sr. is said to have 
been jealous-which was almost certa,inly the desired effect). Joey 
called her collect practically every day. They s~ke three times, in 
fact, the day before she died. Her death devastated Little Joey, 
according to the Post. It completely foiled his uncommonly strong 
Oedipal complex; he'd failed to keep his mother alive, and his 
father's giant stature still loomed above him. 


In 1968, he reluctantly accepted some help from daddy and 
surrendered to domesticity. Joe Sr. set him up in the polyurethane 
foam business (one word, son: plastics). Soon afterwards, Joey mar-
ried Sue Adams. Still crippled by self-doubt, he failed at both mar-
riage and business with prodigious speed. He was drinking a ton, 
and occasionally indulged in speed. He would come home drunk 
and beat Sue bloody. He soon struck out in the foam business, and 
was divorced in 1974-


Even when Joe Sr. was dying. he refused to visit him. Big Joe's 
cousin SteUa told reporters Joey wanted to go, would have gone, 
even, if only his father had invited him. But the Yankee Clipper did 
not invite him. He died without saying good-bye to his life's great-
est disappointment. 


Joey didn't emerge again until Jnsitk Edition found him early 
this year. Joe Sr.'s death seemed to reopen the possibility of life for 
Joey D. He was talking about maybe going back into business, quit-
ting alcohol, and putting his life back together. Things were really 
starting to look up for Joltin' Junior. 


But Joey D. was unable to exorcise the specter of his father. A 
few months after he resolved to resuscitate his ambitions, he was 
still living in a trailer park. still drinking and still reclusive as ever. 
That was where be died, on August 9th, scarcely five months after 
Joe Sr. The causes were "natural." Acute asthma, the doetors said. 


But as his ex-wife told the SAn Diego Union-Tribune, "I think he 
just gave up." 


With Joe Sr.'s death, Joey D.'s existence was finally his own-
and aJ1 he could do was give up. He ruined his own life, one sus-
pects. as an elaborate revenge against a distant, intimidating father. 
A lonely death was all that was left to him. He'd refused his old 
man's "traditional family." In this, at least, he was a srunning suc--
cess. 


Jan Bkcher, a senior in Davenport Co/kg~. is a managi~g editor of TN]. 
THE NEW JouRNAL



**Title: A Division of Yale University**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
A DIVIS I ON OF ~ALE UN IVERS lTV 
INFORMATION TEGHNOLOGY SERVICES 
REPROGRAPHICS 
& IMAGING SERVICES 
155 Whitney Avenue • 432-6560 
FAX: 432-6274 
http://www.yale.edu/rls 


**Title: THE LAW SCHOOL RULES**
**Page number(s): 32**

THE 
LAW SCHOOL 
RULES 
...... , ....... l!l ...................... . 
, •u111 T.l. UWII 
au en 
ACE LAW SCHOOL WITH 115 RULES FROM A RECENT GRADUATE 
WHO REMEMBERS THE EXPERIENCE ALL TOO WELL. 
Do Away with Your Common Sense and Think Like a Lawyer i Shake the 
Jitters i Keept a Law School Journal i Accept That All of Your Professors 
May Not Like You i Don't Fall in Love with Your Professor i Scope Out 
the Smarty-Pants i Don't Agonize over Atrocious Grades i Make Lots of 
Whoopie! i Take Soothings Baths • Adopt a Pet 
PuBLISHED BY CROWN 
~his is an unual and impressive work: a 24-year-old writees ring-
ing and heartfelt plea for renewed commitment to-and faith in-
American civic and political life. Given the cynicism rampant today, 
Jebediah Purdy's endeavor may seem quixotic. But he persuasively 
argues for the necesity and satisfactions of social 
and poltical reengagement, and for renwed 
attention to "common things": the environment, 
education, culture, law, and government. 
PuBLISHED BY KNOPF 
NOW AVAILABLE AT BOOKHAVEN ~ 
290 YORK STREET ~ 
<203> 787-2848 

