Publication date: December 14, 1972
Volume: six
Issue number: two

**MASTHEAD:**
- Editors: Ronald Roel, Joel Krieger
- Associate Editor: Gary Friedman
- Photography Editor: James Karageorge
- Design: John Kane
- Art Director: Susan Warren
- Production: Nancy Finlayson, Roger Sametz
- Business Manager: Brian Raub
- Contributing Editors: George Kannar, Jonathan Marks, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Publisher: Stuart Rohrer


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- Comment - Joseph Brodsky
- "Yes, Virginia, you little bitch, there is a Hollywood!"
- life with the Nighthawks: "An interesting experience."
- The most hated man in New Mexico; the most misunderstood man in New Haven.
- Lucas N ___ : A Confession
- The Groundlings
- Letters


**Title: Comment**
**Author: Joseph Brodsky**
**Page number(s): 2**

Russians and Slavophiles greet each other, radiant, speaking quickly. It is a very special night for them. Joseph Brodsky, emigre poet, walks to the stage at the Law School Auditorium. He sits, smoking, looking into the audience; strong, fresh, his hands hiding in the front pockets of his corduroy jacket. Whim-lead Americans and students fumbling through translations may miss the subtleties of the verse. But ultimately they will share in the poet. He will expel the words from his mouth, pounding the rhythm, forging with the sway of his body the universal themes. And tonight he will lay claim to an audience and a literary tradition far beyond the land severed from him.


The poet commands form but remains anti-formalist, fighting shallow gamesmanship of stanzaic and metrical virtuosity. The order, rather than constraining, serves to create freedom, and to promote the personal vision that grounds the boldest abstraction. There is a sweeping quality to the lines---staccato rhythm yet enjambment, traditional meter yet fresh syntax. Brodsky stands the embodiment of the Russian tradition, but one who has stepped beyond his contemporaries: Who has influenced you? "Baratynslcy, Tyutchev, Tsvetayeva, and of course Derzhavin." (an eighteenth century fore bearer none of his contemporaries would even include on the list)


Brodsky's themes--man, his culture, mortality--are timeless and nationless. Long before this night, while still in his homeland, Brodsky embraced the English language and poetic tradition. He has said that here lies the greatest achievement in the world of poetry, and has long been under its influence. Appropriately, Brodsky chose to recite first, Verses on the Death of T. S. Eliot.


**Title: Verses on the Death of T. S. Eliot**
**Page number(s): 2-3**

I
He died at the start of the year, in January.
His front door flinched in frost by the streetlamp.
There was no time for nature to display
the splendors of her choreography.
Where are you, Magi, who read men's souls?
Come now and hold his halo high for him.
Two mournful figures gaze upon the ground.
They sing. How very similar their songs!
Apollo, fling your garland down,
Let it be the poet's crown,
sign of immortality,
all there is where mortals be.
Black windowpanes shrank mutely in the snow.
The cold's town-crier stood beneath the light.
At crossings puddles stiffened into ice.
He latched his door on the thin chain of years.
The days he leaves to us will not declare
a bankruptcy of Muses. Poetry
is orphaned, yet it breeds within the glass
of lonely days, each echoing each, that swim
to distance. It will splash against the eye,
sink into lymph, like some Aeolian nymph,
a narcissistic friend. But in the rhyme
of years the voice of poetry stands plain.
With neither grimace nor maliciousness
death chooses from its bulging catalogue
the poet, not his words, however strong,
but just- unfailingly - the poet's self.
It has no use for thickets or for fields
or seas in their high, bright magnificence.
Death is a prodigal, it piles
a horde of hearts upon a wisp of time.
Used Christmas trees had flared in vacant lots,
and broken baubles had been broomed away.
Winged angels nestled warmly on their shelves.
A Catholic, he lived till Christmas Day.
But, as the sea, whose tide has climbed and roared,
slamming the seawall, draws its warring waves
down and away, so he, in haste, withdrew
from his own high and solemn victory.
It was not God, but only time, mere Time
that called him. The young tribe of giant waves
will bear the burden of his flight until
it strikes the far edge of its flowering fringe,
to bid a slow farewell, breaking against
the limit of the earth. Exuberant
in strength,-it laughs, a January gulf
in that dry land of days where we remain.
Are they then maidens? One cannot be sure:
pain and not passion has defined their sex.
One seems an Adam, turning half away,
but, judging by his flow of hair, an Eve ...
America, where he was born and raised,
and England, where he died - they both incline
their drowsy faces as they stand, dejectedly,
on either side of his enormous grave.
And ships of cloud swim slowly heavenward.
But each grave is the limit of the earth.
Forests here will not forget
voice of lyre and rush of feet.
Only what remains alive
will deserve their memories.
Hill and dale will honor him.
Aeolus will guard his fame.
Blades of grass his name will hold,
just as Horace had foretold.
Thomas Stearns, don't dread the sheep,
or the reaper's deadly sweep.
If you're not recalled by stone,
puffball drift will make you known.
Thus it is that love takes flight.
Once for all. Into the night.
Cutting through all words and cries,
seen no more, and yet alive.
You have gone where others are.
We, in envy of your star,
call that vast and hidden room,
thoughtlessly, "the realm of gloom."
. Wood and field will not forget.
All that lives will know you yet -
as the body holds in mind
lost caress of lips and arms.

II
Verses appears by permission of Mr. Brodsky. The English translation by George L. Kline will appear in 1973 in the Brodsky volume of the Penguin series of Modern European poets.


**Title: "Yes, Virginia, you little bitch, there is a Hollywood."**
**Author: Doug McKinney**
**Page number(s): 3**

Not only was it in the New York Film Festival, but the opening of Heat was an event! Sylvia was, of course, there, and Joe (migod! in a suit!), and Paul, and a host of glistening New York (nee Little Hollywood) Harry-everyone-will-be-there cinema-goers. (note: "film" is where you find it; "cinema" is for people who are desperately trying to learn Bertolucci's name). No one is sure if Andy was there or not.


They even had a special panel discussion after the screening. Otto Preminger, charter member of the Stanley Kramer Cub for film-makers who never got a hot one but make just enough each time to bankroll the next one, properly blew it by initially lauding Sylvia: "Yell, I tink Vera Miles iss excellent in zis pikture." But no one could blame Otto particularly, for after all, just what was the Factory doing at the Festival?


Well, Virginia, once upon a time ...
Lap dissolve (or, for those who still haven't read Ed Pincus' Guide to Film-making, those wavy lines that used to come on the screen when somebody was going to have a dream, a flashback, or both):


Paul Morrissey worked in a number of odd jobs before turning to film. After four years of independently made shorts (note: "Independently made" covers a multitude of film-financing routes, a euphemism for anything between starvation and being hired to make a travelogue of the Indian Neck Mills textile plant), he became a member of Andy Warhol's Factory, an "old-fashioned Hollywood" studio based in a lower Manhattan warehouse.


Morrissey served an apprenticeship with Warhol on films including My Hustler, Loves of Ondine, and Lonesome Cowboys, and was finally given free rein with Flesh. Whether Morrissey became director or Andy just became a producer is irrelevant; at any rate, the last film Andy did any "work" on was L'amour in 1970.


Flesh generated an appropriate and well-deserved stir in underground circles, and even received some notices above-ground (note: "underground" is a sloppy but commonly used term much like "experimental." It includes avant-garde before the New Wave, anything non-commercial in nature, usually films with some intelligence behind them, true experiments with the nature of the medium, too often devoid of a sense of humor, not necessarily entertaining and often boring, often failing but still trying, anything rentable from the Filmmakers' Co-op, anything written or shot by Jonas Mekas, and in France everything by Jerry Lewis. "Above-ground" refers to anything reviewed by Wanda Hale).


This was followed by Trash, also starring Joe Dallasandro, and including Holly Woodlawn and the girl-with-the-olive-oil-complexion, Jane Forth. Although it was funny and by some estimations worth seeing, Trash was a moderate commercial success. New York was treated to a massive poster publicity campaign which included stenciling the film's title in "the streets, on the curbs, and cheekily in the gutters. Whether the street advertising was responsible or not (one may assume that it helped, as many New Yorkers have their heads in that direction anyway), the film received enough box-office and critical attention that no one could deny that the underground had "arrived."


In many ways, Heat is simply the next step toward this recognition. Not only that, the films are getting better.


Now look, Virginia, pay attention ...
Heat is a semi-soft core delight. (note: "Hard-core" and "Soft-core" are terms used to describe different types of pornography, obscenity, vulgarity, fun, your choice. Simply stated, "hard core" refers to films that "deliver" -that is, no simulation, the Real Thing, Deep Throat, Daddy's 8mm workshop treasure chest of the 1956 office Christmas party. "Soft-core" means cheating, somewhere. One of the problems of the film underground's emergence in the past was the lack of this distinction among "art" films. For example, many of Warhol's films do not "deliver" in a hard-core sense, nor were they meant to; but the general reputation for years- remember being forbidden to see La Dolce Vita?- was otherwise .. Simply stated, "soft-core" refers to anything Judith Crist wouldn't be caught dead seeing. "Hard-core" refers to anything Judith Crist would only be caught dead seeing.


Morrissey: We had an idea to do The Blue Angel, but with the roles reversed, you know, Joe in the Marlene Dietrich part, but when we got to L.A., we thought thought it might be Death in Venice, with the hotel now a motel, or maybe Grand Hotel, but it finally turned out to be Sunset Boulevard.


Joey Davis, fading ex-child star, is looking for a break, residing in a run-down-but-still-pastel-colored-motel (after first checking out the ruins of the old Fox lot on, you bet, Sunset Boulevard), where he meets Jessica, a young mother who thinks she's a Lesbian, and he is soon introduced to Jessica's mother, Sally. Sally is also a fading actress, doing commercials. She falls for young, muscular Joey, and he, seeing an opportunity for career advancement, accepts. He moves into her 36-room mansion, but loses what could have been a break in his career when the producers Sally introduces him to start searching for more "Elliott Hoffmarm" types. Meanwhile, Jessica is after Joey and a few other divertissements, but Joey gives up on the whole thing and walks out. Sally goes berserk and vainly tries to shoot him. End titles. Not exactly a remake of Sunset Boulevard, but it's in there enough to be significant.


The best thing about Heat, and the thing that makes it work, is that the Technique/style Morrissey has been using all along has finally flowered. Not only has he assembled actors that can improvise well, but his editing sense has developed to the point where a true wit emerges through the comic gems he chooses to in-



**Heat**
**Author: Doug McKinney**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
elude in the film. Granted, there is no 
script, therefore the "jokes" in the dia-
logue belong to the actors, but the order-
ing and structuring of those lines belong 
to Morrissey. As in Flesh and Trash, the 
camera is usually set up in one position, 
the actors are given an idea of what the 
scene is about, and they play it. The ca-
mer:a roams a bit, but essentially stays in 
one area. In Heat however, Morrissey has 
improved his skill by cutting away or 
stopping the camera completely until 
something starts to happen again. True, 
the camera did not simply roll on in Flesh 
and Trash, but the results were not nearly 
so good as they are in Heat. In addition, 
he edits scenes in several instances, going 
from a medium shot to a close-up and 
back. This alone isn't much, unless you 
keep in mind that scenes were stopped, 
or that (improvised} dialogue went on 
between camera set-ups; but the editing 
keeps the fJlm flowing smoothly within 
these cuts, as if nothing is missing. (The 
ftlm had a 5-1 ratio, footage shot to 
footage used.) And, he knows how to end 
a scene, where the end of a joke is, how 
long a reaction shot should be. While the 
film stock has a recognizable graininess 
tu it, the synch sound quality is also 
much improved over the two previosu 
ftlms. 

Mo"issey: The typewritten movie is 
over. I don't use a script, I keep it all in 
my head. (D.W. Griffith did the same 
thing.) The common conception is that 
we give everyone drugs and wait for some-
thing to happen, but I've never tried that, 
and I don't think it would work. I just 
set up a situation, give as much of an idea 
as I can without telling the actors any-
thing, and leave the camera on them. 
Films don't use actors anymore; actors 
should do more. We sort of invented this 
improvisation technique, and it's had a 
long development. 

A major share of the credit for the 
success and spice of Heat must go to the 
actors. As the story goes, Sylvia Miles 
went to enough parties and simply hung 
around long enough to get herself a part 
in the film. Fortunately so, for she is 
a major attraction. From the moment 
she appears, she is perfect: the aggressive 
waddle, big sunglasses, too-often-worked-
over blonde hair, the low-cut pants-dress 
revealing a once great figure gone slightly 
sagging but still appealing- the fading 
actress who is living on alimony, the left-
overs of her career, and the generous Cal-
ifornia sun. The finishing touches are her 
magnificent eyes, with which she can say 
more than two pages of description, and 
her hu&)<y, lots-of-booze and histrionic 
screaming-in-the-past voice. She is elec-
tric whenever she is on. Her reaction looks 
are some of the best moments in the ftlm, 
as when she is informed by the motel 
owner that she is not the only one Joey 
has been seeing: her expression goes from 
polite, disinterested superiority to seeth-
ing internal frustration and rage. And she 
has many good lines of her own, includ-
ing her confrontations with her flipped-
out daughter Jessica. As early as it is in 
the film, her exclamation, "This is Holly-
wood, darling!" is a case of supreme co-
mic understatement. Then she goes on, 
as the frustrated (albeit neglecting and 
confused} mother of a weirdo teenager 
to tell Jessica, "My dear, you are not a 
Lesbian; it's just a phase, you only think 
you are." Later, when Jessica is after Joey, 
it comes back: "She can't even make a 
Volume six, number two !December 14, 197214 

good dyke!" As grotesque as it seems, 
is Judith Crist talking about Goodbye, 
Sylvia/Sally extracts a measure of sympa-
Columbus), and Trash was about impo-
thy from the audience. One has the feel-
tence, Heat is about masturbation (all 
ing that she is not totally responsible for 
sorts) and Hollywood, or so Morrissey 
the situation she's in, that she simply does 
describes the genealogy. But he is willing 
not know what's happening or how to 
to go further. Heat is also about family 
deal with it. Finally, the last meaningful 
problems, the American family breaking 
shot of the ftlm is just her eyes, after she 
up, the rejection of Jessica's baby (which 
tries to shoot Joey. We hear one last, 
she carries in a shopping bag), but that in 
"shit," and in that close-up, see all the 
spite of all this, the characters have redeem-
pent-up consternation and exasperation 
ing qualities, elements of sympathy. May~ 
built up by the rest of the fllm. 

If there are realistic commentaries in Heat, 
Jessica, ''played" by Andrea Feldman, 
they are allegorical. 

defies adequate description. "That's just 
More important however, is the re-
her natural voice, incredible." says Mor-
lation of the film to reality in its own 
rissey. Whatever, her delivery is amazing, 
microcosm. Morrissey has professed many 
as exemplified by a hysterical crying jag 
times a love of the old Hollywood, its star 
which ends (when she realizes that it's not 
system, and the way films were often con-
getting the desired effect) with an off-cam-
structed for a particular star. {'In the old 
era "Fuck-off!" that punctuates the scene 
days, the studio would say, 'We have a Deb-
beautifully. 

bie Reynolds, Jet's use her!'; now they never 
Joe Dallesandro as Joey is the straight-
think of a~t?,rs first, they have a story and 
est one of the bunch. His acting style, gen-
~ey ~ast It. ) In the same ~ay t~at tech-
erally characterized by a lethargic lack of 
rucalimpro-..:ef!lents and choices m Heat 
"technique," is fitting, but even he can "act" (such a~ av~ndm¥ a front_al nude shot of 
when the camera/script demands. Worthy 
Joey~ give 1t a slightly slicker, more com-
of mention are Pat Ast the motel owner 
merczallook than Flesh and Trash, 
who, while the only on'e to affect an ac~nt, Morrissey and Co. are preserving or trying 
is at once thoroughly gross and ridiculously to resurrect a part of the old Hollywood, 
funny , and another kid who, as Morrissey 
"legendized" and a~ap~ed ~o taste. The 
explains "wanted to be in the film so much press hand-outs are mdicahve: 
but alw;ays kept talking and talking; we said 
"Sylvia Miles ... has exploded upon 
yeah, but you can't say a word." Result: he the Manhattan social scene with a passion 
plays a deaf mute dressed as a hip male Shir- that evokes memories of Hollywood's gold-
ley Temple who is constantly masturbating. en era ... As much an actress as a Theater 
One might say that he is the emcee, the 
star, Miss Miles has devoted her entire life 
stage manager, the narrator, who serves to 
to perfecting her performing art... when 
remind us what this Hollywood scene is all 
she is not displaying or refining her craft, 
about. 

If Flesh was about nakedness (note: 
Sylvia is attending a New York premiere or 
"Nakedness" is nude shots of Joe Dalle-
party or, in her quieter moments, playing.,_ 
sandra after the frontal view; "nudity" 
chess or rapping with friends. At present 


**The New Haven Nighthawks: "an interesting experience."**
**Author: Roger Cohn**
**Page number(s): 6-7**

Four thousand hockey fans inside the 
New Haven Coliseum await the start of 
the game. Some chat quietly. Others 
read the latest edition of "Hockey 
News." At one corner of the rink, 
"Dave Perry and the Rock in' Chair 
Band" pound out a brassy rock tune 
Chicago style. 

Suddenly the music changes to some-
thing off the soundtrack of Shaft. A door 
swings open along the sideboards. The 
Nighthawks skate out in their bright blue 
and white uniforms. The players look 
young. Long hair hangs over their ears or 
juts out beneath their helmets. 

"Ladies and Gentlemen," booms the 
public address announcer. "Here are the 
New Haven Nighthawks ... Come on, 
Nighthawks. Let's Fly!" 

Who are the Nighthawks? You may 
have seen some Nighthawk bumper stick-
ers and woolen beanies around town this 
fall. These have nothing to do with the 
ecology movement. They refer to the 
American Hockey League team that just 
began its first season in the multi-million 
dollar Veteran Memorial Coliseum. 

New Haven hockey fans have support-
ed a professional club for more than 
forty-five years. The Eagles of the old 
Canadian-American League brought 
hockey here in 1926. A decade later they 
became one of the pioneer teams of the 
American League, and the Eagles stayed 
for almost twenty years. 

When Mayor Bart Guida decided to 
build a new arena, he hoped he could at-
tract big-time professional sports to New 
Haven. But neither the major basketball 
leagues nor hockey leagues wanted to 
place a franchise in a small city so near 
the big sports markets of New York and 
Boston. Finally the American Hockey 
League agreed to grant a minor league 
team to a group of New Haven business-
men, and the Nighthawks were born. 

Most New Havenites associate minor 
league hockey with the rugged New 
Haven Blades of the Eastern League who 
used to play at the dreary, decaying New 
Haven Arena. The old Blades with their 
brawling style of hockey enjoyed great 
popularity. Blades' fans sat on hard, 
wooden Arena benches amid peanut 
shells and crushed beer cups. They 
expected a brawl during the course of a 
game, either on the ice or in the stands, 
and they usually got one. But this year 
the Blades have been forced to move to 
Hartford to make way for the Night-
hawks. 

The fans at the new Coliseum differ 
from the old crowds that used to pack 
the Arena. In the red, white, and blue 
cushioned seats, you now see businessmen 
in three-piece suits and many women and 
children. 

Allan Giarelli, a men's hair stylist from 
East Haven, has season tickets to Night-
hawk games for his twelve-year-old son 
and himself. "We like hockey and we like 
the Coliseum," Giarelli said as he arrived 
for a recent game against the Tidewater 
Wings. He wore a flower-design shirt and 
tan, two-tone shoes. "We haven't missed 
a home game yet. I just wish they'd start 
winning some.'' 

The Nighthawks have been losing, but 
they have developed a core of dedicated 
fans. "The crowds have been surprisingly 
good considering the way we've been 
playing," points out Parker MacDonald, 
general manager and coach of the Night-

To free them from the stereotype asso-
ciated with minor league hockey, the 
management has presented its team as the 
"new" Nighthawks. The rock music and 
the colorful team beanies form only part 
of their public relations effort. At a 
recent game against the Hershey Bears, 
every fan entering the Coliseum received 
a complimentary Hershey bar from one 
of the girl ushers. The girls wear red wool-
en jackets, short blue skirts, and high 
white vinyl boots. They look like some-
thing out of the Houston Astrodome. 

But it is the players themselves who 
most clearly reflect the new trend in 
minor league hockey. Since the Night-
hawks are a farm club for the National 
League's New York Islanders, they are 
required to have at least eight players 
under 23 and only 2 players over 26. 

Like most new teams, the Nighthawks 
have had trouble with the established 
clubs in the League, winning only two of 
their first twelve games. "We knew it was 
going to be difficult right off the bat," 
admits Coach MacDonald. "It'll take time 
and patience to get this club moving." 

Nineteen-year-old Gary Howatt came 
to the Nighthawks straight from a junior 
hockey club in Flin Flom, Manitoba. 
"This is my first time in the States," 
Howatt said as he laced a pair of wrinkled 
brown skates before a recent practice. 
"The guys are a lot stronger in this 
league. They skate faster and play better 
than they do in the juniors." 

The Nighthawks roster lists Gary How-
att as 5'9" and 170 pounds, but he does-
n't look that big. If you entered the Night-
hawks locker room and saw his beardless 
face and his shy, boyish manner, you 
would never pick him out as one of the 
leading scorers and roughest players on 
the team. 

"Howatt's the gutsiest kid I've ever 
seen," Parker MacDonald claims. "He'll 
hit anybody." 

But when Gary Howatt talks about 
himself he says, "Sure my toughness 
helps me, but if I don't work on the basic 
skills of the game, then I won't make it to 
the National League." 

As a young and relatively small club, 
the Nighthawks must rely on speed and 
agility. Skeeter Teal, a fo




**The Nighthawks**
**Author: Roger Cohn**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
7 
!'J 
Volume six, number two I December 14, 197217 
not," Skeeter says. "It's all a matter of 
desire and whether or not the breaks 
come your way." 

Since the Nighthawk season opened, 
Skeeter has lived in a beach house in East 
Haven with teammate Neil Nicholson. "I 
fmd I can live pretty comfortably on my 
hockey salary," Skeeter observes. "Ten, 
fifteen thousand a year-that's decent 
money." 

Skeeter Teal likes to keep up with the 
latest mod fashions. His long blonde hair 
is cut in a shag style. When he wears his 
hockey uniform, his hair grazes the 
shoulders of his jersey. 

Most of the Nighthawk players enjoy 
dressing well. Neil Nicholson has played-
as a professional for four years and has 
observed a difference in men's fashions 
among the various hockey cities. "I used 
to get my clothes in Montreal when I was 
playing for the Providence Reds," Nichol-
son recalls. "At first they used to laugh at 
me down in Providence. Then, three 
months later the same thing would come 
out in the stores down there." 

After hockey games, many Nighthawk 
players flock to some of New Haven'~ 
better bars. In past years, Blades players 
could often be seen at the dingy Arena 
Bar and Grille, sipping on beers and mak-
ing time with middle-aged women. But · 
most of the Nighthawks frequent the 
Zodiac or Pat's or the Coliseum Lounge 
on Crown St. Here , at "New Haven 's 
Newest Live Spot," some of the young 
Nighthawks attract a new breed of hockey 
"groupies" - girls in tight sweaters and 
mini-skirts, secretaries or students who 
are always ardent Nighthawk fans. 

But not all the Nighthawks are young 
men who enjoy clothing, bars, and New 
Haven girls. Thirty-seven-year-old WiUie 
0-ree, the only black man ever to play in 
the National Hockey League, recently 
came to the Nighthawks from the San 
Diego Gulls. He is starting to go bald 
slightly and his face shows traces of his 
17 years in professional hockey. "It's no 
rougher for me today than it was ten 
years ago." 0-ree claims. " I just get tired 
a little easier." 

0-ree thinks this may be his last sea-
son. "I like the game, but I've been stay-
ing in mostly for the money," the oldest 
player on the Nighthawks explains. " I've 
got a couple of business opportunities in 
San Diego and Vancouver that I have to 
check out." 

Another veteran now with the Night· 
hawks is Terry Gray. A former forward 
with Montreal and St. Louis of the Nat-
ional League, Gray left his farm near Mon-
treal this year to return to minor 
league hockey. He retired as a player two 
years ago to become the coach of Colum-
bus in the International League. 

"But I didn't care for the organization 
I was in," Gray recalls. "So I phoned Bill 
Torrey [General Manager of the New 
York Islanders) , and he sent me to New 
Haven." 

Gray has moved his wife and two 
children to Hamden, and expects to fmish 
his playing career with the Nighthawks. 
He also hopes to coach again, preferably 
in the Montreal area. 

"In this business you never can tell 
where you1J be," Terry Gray says. "But 
I like hockey. It's my life." 

Most of the younger Nighthawks view 
hockey as only a temporary part of their 
lives. Ken McPhail, who graduated last 
year from Michigan Tech with a degree in 
business administration, fmds profession-
al hockey "an interesting experience." 

"It's a rather dull pace of life," he 
says. "I've got a good two year contract 
and I'll just see how it goes. I want to get 
out of hockey while I still have my teeth 
and while my knees are still good." 

Though they receive salaries of more 
than $10,000, not all the young Night-
hawks plan on a hockey career. At a re-
cent practice session, 24-year-old goalie 
Glenn Resch expressed some of his own 
misgivings. 

"The life of a hockey player is really 
a pretty shallow one," Resch explained. 
As he spoke, only his eyes and mouth 
could be seen through the holes of his red 
goalie mask. "You waste a lot of time 
doing nothing. It's really a pretty shel-
tered existence." Resch leaned back 
against the sideboards. Streams of sweat 
ran down his neck and darkened his white 
practice jersey. " Let's say you've got a 
team meal at 1 o'clock, and then there's 
a couple of hours to kill before the game. 
I guess you could go to the library for a 
couple of hours. But you don't. You just 
watch TV or rest for awhile. 

Resch is especially interested in the 
career of Ken Dryden, the former Cor-
nell goalie who now stars for the Mon-
treal Canadiens. "I'd like to see whether 
Ken stays around for more than a few 
years," Resch says. "He's a bright guy- . 
not going to let himself get stale." 

Resch graduated from the University 
of Minnesota two years ago and played 
professional hockey last season in Mus-
kegon, Ohio. He hopes to teach and coach 
high school hockey after he stops playing. 

Few of the Nighthawks seem willing to 
let themselves get stale. Neil Nicholson 
would like to audit courses at Yale. Barry 
Boughner took a class at Drake when he 
played at Des Moines last year. Pat Thorn-
ton needs one more credit to earn a 
degree from Boston University. 

This is a new breed of minor league 
hockey players. They enjoy higher sal-
aries and new pension plans, yet they 
look to the future. 

Skeeter Teal owns a hockey school in 
St. Catherines and has several other in-
vestments. When his hockey career ends, 
he hopes to start a resort in Northern On-
tario. 

"Ufe isn't that long, so you gotta keep 
making plans," Skeeter Teal says. "You 
never know when you'll have to stop 
playing hockey." • 
Roger Cohn, 5 '8", 155 pounds, is a senior 
at Yale and a member of the Timothy 
Dwight College hockey tellm. 


**The most hated man in New Mexico; the most misunderstood man in New Haven**
**Author: Arturo Gandara and Albert D. Sanchez**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

"This is the 430th anniversary of our 
new breed. 'I will lead you out of 
Egypt,' God said to Moses, and af-
ter 430 years, the Hebrews came out 
of Egypt and into Caanan ... 
... The Spanish-American is only four-. 
and-a-half years old, while the Anglo 
is 25 years old, and the Jew is 60 
years old ... By the year 2000 we will 
have 600 million people who speak 
Spanish down across the Rio 
Grande." 

What had happened to "El Tigre del 
Norte" (The Tiger of the North)---"The 
most hated man in New Mexico?" To 
those who sat in the sparsely filled Law 
School Auditorium several weeks ago, 
the words of the reputed Chicano revolu-
tionary, Reies Lopez Tijerina, were 
blander than the pablum of traditional 
American politics. 

Where was the man, Tijerina, who set 
his followers on fire, leading the fight to 
reclaim the Spanish land grants of the 
Southwest? Where was the man who 
took over a national forest in New Mex-
ico, warning, "We'll stay here until "'e 
come to a showdown with whoever feels 
he has the right to throw us out." The 
man who supposedly led the raid on the 
courthouse in Tierra Amarilla, in which 
two policemen were wounded? 

As the spectators in the Law School 
Auditorium shifted uncomfortably in 
their seats, the carefully cultivated at-
mosphere of logic and reason crumbled 
before the tangled rhetoric of the man 
behind the podium. Tijerina's formal 
lecture, delivered in a second language, 
succeeded only in embarrassing the Chi-
cano audience and their invited guests. 

There was a vast chasm between Tijerina 
the man, and the political revolutionary 
the audience had expected. 

Reies Tijerina hasn't changed. His 
speech was nearly th~ same, word for 
word, as the one he gave more than six 
years ago in Sante Fe, when he drew an 
analogy comparing the Tribes of Israel 
to the lndo-Rispanos in the Southwest. 
He remains a man of the soil, a man who 
speaks with passion and sincerity from 
tht' heart, not the sort of individual with 
whom the academically oriented Chicano 
Yalies could identify. The gap between 
audience and speaker was too great. The 
undergraduates who listened· so half-
heartedly were only junior high and high 
school students during the height of Ti-
jerina's career. When he spoke of the 
"miracle" of the " Indo-Hispanic" popu-
lation boom, could an audience so fa-
miliar with Zero Population Growth and 
Women's Liberation be sympathetic? 

To Tijerina, the former Pentecostal 
preacher, the miracle of life represented 
by the teeming millions of lndo-Hispanos 
indicates a heaven-sent mission for the 
Chicano culture--and for himself. In the 
fall of 1969, jailed on dubious charges of 
aiding and abetting his wife in the destruc-
tion of Forest Service signs and of assault-
ing a forest ranger, he wrote from his 
cell: 

I am writing these reflections to my 
people and the entire Indo-Hispanic 
world-Latin America ... Times have 
changed and the spirit of the blood 
is no longer limited by national or con-
tinental boundaries ... Our property, 
freedom and culture must be respect-
ed on New Mexico, in South America, 
Mexico and Canada. 

If this view seems somewhat grandiose, 
it is not out of personal bravado. In 1957 
Tijerina had a vision and thereafter view-
ed.himself as a messenger of God in the 
tradition of the Hebrew prophets: 

I left my warm bed into the cold 
weather because I wanted to pray ... 
I wanted to ask God co show me the 
future of my life. I fell asleep, and I 
saw frozen horses and this old King-
dom with walls, you know, and these 
tall pines. The horses started melting 
and coming to life, and three angels 
came in my dream to my house to 
help me ... 

Those tall pines, they were in New 
Mexico, the three angels were the an-
gels of the law coming to tell me what 
I should do. And the frozen horses, 
they were the land grants that be-
longed to the pueblos, to my people ... 
I had found my calling, like a mission. 

The Law School Auditorium echoed 
with mystical interpretations of history: 
Tijerina explained the cracking of the 
Liberty Bell as God's message to America 
to end its oppression of the black man. 
He linked the return of his people to their 
land in the Southwest to the return of 
the Tribes of Israel to the Holy Land. 
He went on to attach religious signifi-
cance to the 3 PM June 5, 1967 attack 
on the Tierra Amarilla courthouse, which 
occured at the same moment as the Is-
raeli attack on Jerusalem which began 
the Six Day War halfway around the 
world. The fact that he and Moshe Day-
an, the man who ordered the Israeli 
attack, were born on the same day fur-
ther confirmed his mission. 

If Tijerina was always a religious 
mystic, how then did his image as a po-
litical revolutionary catch on? The an-
swer seems to lie with Tijerina's work in 
· the Alianza Federal de Mercedes Libres 
{the Federal Alliance of Free City-
States). Founded in 1963 at the urgings 
of Tijerina's inner voices, the Alianza's 
purpose was to settle a 120-year-old dis-
pute by regaining the land which the 
Spanish settlers held before the Anglo 
conquest. The grievance began when Mex-
ico signed over Arizona and New Mexico 
to the United States in the Treaty of 
Guadalupe-Hidalgo. At that time, the 
Anglos had agreed to honor the private 
land holdings in New Mexico that had 
been given to the Spanish settlers by the 
Mexican viceroys. Inevitably, the Texan 
"gringos" began to move in, taking the 
land from the illiterate and clannish 
colonists, sometimes through violence 
and other times through legal skuldug-
gery. After fifty years the U.S. Supreme 
Court validated all existing land titles and 
tossed out the old Hispano claims. 

By late 1966, Tijerina claimed an 
Alianza membership of 30,000, and the 
sympathetic attachment of many thou-
sands more. The Alianza membership 
was not made up ~f militant young 
Chicanos, but of middle-aged and older 
people who considered themselves 
Spanish {not Mexican-American, Indo-
Hispano, or Chicano). Many of Tijerina's 
early followers could still remember how 
the land their families and pueblos owned 


--- Page 9 ---

• 
Volume six, number two I becember 14, 197219 
had been systematically appropriated by 
shyster Anglo lawye~ who preyed upon 
the Hispano unfamiliarity with the laws 
of the American conquerors. The 
Alianza was not a revolutionary organiza-
tion-its concern was the relatively narrow 
issue of land. Even the wife of New Mex-
ico's Governor Cargo was a member. 

Pursuing his dream, Tijerina organized 
a symbolic 65-mile hike from Albuquer-
que to Santa Fe in July, 1966, to peti-
tion the government for more civil and 
property rights for Spanish-speaking 
Americans. Then, with 350 men, women 
and children, he "took over" Carson Na· 
tiona) Forest (a former land grant) and 
held a mock trial of three forest rangers. 
Although the group eventually left peace· 
fully and released the rangers, Tijerina 
was arrested and later convicted of 
assaulting a Federal officer. The press 
began to describe him as the "leader of 
the militant land grant claimants." His 
reputation spread. 

In June, 1967, Tijerina's followers 
attempted to hold a convention in the 
Carson forest, but were thwarted by the 
local District Attorney, Alphonso San-
chez, who believed Tijerina had Commu-
nist support in his activities. Sanchez, 
who had frequently interfered with the 
AJianza's organizational efforts, arrested 
ten of its leaders to discourage attendance 
of the convention. In response, a group 
of armed AJianza members raided the 
nearby courthouse in Tierra Amarilla in 
an attempt to make a citizen's arrest of 
Sanchez, who was not present. Never-
theless, the corps of Alianza members 
managed to free their ten companeros, 
leaving behind a wounded state police-
man and a deputy sheriff. The author-
ities overreacted and sent 350 national 
guardsmen, state police, and heavy mil-
itary equipment in pursuit. 

The Tierra Amarilla raid, then, was 
not the initial battle of a revolution aim· 
ing to wrest the Southwest from the 
grasp of the gringo. Tijerina became a 
cause celebre, and a "revolutionary lead-
er" through the state's response to the 
raid and the interpretation given to the 
incident by the emerging milita.nt fac-
tion of the Chicano movement. 

Those who view the man as a fiery-
eyed John Brown should not forget that 
he has steadfastly maintained his inno-
cence in connection with the raid: 

"I was in the Coyote area at the time, 
and heard about it on the radio." If his 
denials are not enough, Tijerina, acting 
in his own defense, was acquitted in De-
cember, 1967, of all charges connecting 
him with the raid. 

Exultant in his victory, Tijerina told 
the press: 

My philosophy is that of the cricket 
against the lion. The cricket is the 
king of the insects and the lion is 
king of the beasts. The cricket has 
no chance against the lion so he jump-
ed into the lion's ear and tickled him 
to death. That's what we're going to 
do to the United States-we're going 
to tickle him to death. 

But when Tijerina was asked if he styled 
himself after Emilio Zapata, he said: "I 
admire his work, but I admire the work 
of Moses more." 

Two years later, after beingjailed in 
connection with the burning of a forest 
sign, Tijerina went on to state in a letter 
to the Indo-Hispanic people: 

I pray to God that all the Indo-His-
panic people will awake to the need 
for unity, and to our heavenly and 
constitutional responsibility for fzght-
ing peacefully to win our rights. 

Still, his revolutionary image con-
tinued to grow out of all proportion. In 
March, 1968, the California Peace and 
Freedom Party briefly named Tijerina as 
its vice-presidential running rriate for com-
edian-activist Dick Gregory. That same 
month in a speech at the University of 
New Mexico, Gregory said that Negroes 
would burn the country down house by 
house. Tijerina told reporters immed-
iately afterward: "We don't condone 
violence. There has been too much talk 
of revolution. We hope to change the 
state with moral and legal pressure." 

During his two-year incarceration di-
rectly thereafter, the AJianza gradually 
expanded the scope of its activities and 
carne closer to the social movement 
Tijerina was originally credited with 
founding. Upon his return from prison, 
Tijerina was unable to relate to the or-
ganization as it had evolved. The 
AJianza split. Now, Tijerina's main con-
cern lies with his Institute for the Study 
of Justice. 

The message of Reies Tijerina which 
has remained unchanged since his vision 
in 1957 contradicts his image as a politi-
cal revolutionary. Is it any wonder that 
the expectations of the Yale audience---
who know only of Tijerina the symbol---
were not met? That the most critical 
and skeptical segment of the audience 
was the Yale Chicano community? Since 
Tijerina fell short of their expectations, 
they regarded his present position as 
evidence of anything from a sellout, to 
an attempt to obtain a presidential par-
don for his past sins. 

The cold fact is that Tijerina's move-
ment at its height was unrepresentative 
of the Chicano movement. It was an a-
grarian movement of older people. The 
Chicano community, on the other hand, 
is the most urbanized and youngest mi-
nority group in the country. It is this 
latter group with its access to education-
al facilities which has produced the Yale 
Chicano. 

Tijerina is a mystical, Pentecostal 
preacher on a sincere but quixotic quest 
for justice. If we can accept this view, 
the response by Tijerina to a question 
from the audience can be better under-
stood: 

"Five years ago you told us to kill the 
gringo. Now you ask us to call him 
brother. Que paso?" 

"l said something about the Uberty 
Bell. Wasn't that good enough for 
you.?" e 
Arturo Gandara, a first yeru law student, 
is a na rive of New Mexico who has fol-
lowed Tijerina's career for several years. 
Albert D. Sanchez, a second year law 
student, is chairman of the LAtino Law 
Students Association at Yale. 

Finish your Christmas shopping at The Yale Co-op. 
Open Thursday evenings until 9 pm. Remember PAl

We specialize in world· 
wide moving: trunks, 
baggage, suitcases, per-
sonal and household 
effects. We will gladly 
give you a complete 
estimate. 

We offer: 
Daily service to and 
from New York. 
Containerization. 
Door to door service. 
Agents to every port in 
the world. 
Preliminary packing. 
Crating. 
Marine insurance. 
Customs clearance. 
Travelers 
Overseas 
Freight 
Forwarders 
7763534 
235 Wooster Street, New Haven 
Free brochures on request.



**Title: Lucas N--..:.....:- A confession**
**Author: David Rosen**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Lucas N--..:.....:-
A confession. 
by David Rosen 
In Lucas N __ : A Confession the auth-
or presents actual testimony recorded by 
the New Haven Police Department and 
used at trial to convict Lucas N of man-
slaughter. The confession has been edited, 
the order rearranged and names of individ-
uals changed, but nothing appears in this 
version that was not present in the orig-
inal text of the confession. 


After they left, me and Rose came back 
and went to playing records on the table in 
the kitchen, cause thats where the record 
player was, and I was in the bed with her 
son, and she just went to talking to me 
like I was Lonnie. Lonnie look, she said 
come on lets dance Lonnie. I'm going 
home, I got to see Lucas. I said Rose look 
this is me who the hell you talking about, 
I ain't no Lonnie. So I dance a little more 
and I drink a little more and she drink a 
little more and she called me Lonnie just 
a little bit more, and so I woke Jim up, 
that's when she went in there and sat on the 
bed, and right back on the bed and woke 
Jim up, her son, Jim, and I said, Jim, I 
said, Who Rose live with over there and 
don't tell me no lies. I want you to tell 
me the truth and he said, Lonnie lived with 
her the whole time she was ove·r there. 


I got a few more drinks and she was 
laying on the bed and I went in there and 
I pulled her off the bed. I said, Who this 
Lonnie and she said I don't know damn 
Lonnie. Good. I put her back on the bed 
and there was about half of that rum left, 
no soda, just half of the rum, and so we 
started drinking. Then she said, Lucas, this 
was her words, Lonnie look, I love you, she 
said, but Lucas, I pay his rent over there, I 
get him food and everything, but it ain't my 
house so long as Lucas's over there. 


Now, lets jump back to the street. All 
that time I was in the street they were tell-
ing me, people that knowed her and me 
were telling me, Say now, you don't have 
no old lady. Lonnie got her. So I knew 
that, but then still I didn't catch her. I 
never catch her with nobody, but I know 
she be gone some time three weeks, some 
time two weeks. Like Christmas, when she 
left, I had bought Jim a bicycle and every-
thing but she wasn't there, and Jim he 
wasn't home neither, because she takes him. 


So, I thought this; She did want me, no, 
she didn't, she really did want me, loved 
me, but she didn't want me full time she 
just want me in and out. But even the times 
she didn't want me, that woman would pay 
some place for me to stay and have the food 
too, for me to eat. I think about this now, 
God knows, I think about it and God knows 
I didn't mean to kill her. 


This is what happened, we started in the 
bed, she was naked and I was naked, she 
didn't have on a stitch or nothing because 
we just started talking in the room. And 
then Rose prided herself on that one thing, 
if she get naked and I get naked .... Now, I 
ain't hit her and she hadn't hit me, we 
were just sitting on the top of the bed, and 
we ain't made no love or nothing, we just 
sitting there like this and we arguing, we 
ain't arguing, we discussing things, before 
we get into this argument, but it's getting 
hotter all the time, you know, so I told her 
like this, I said, Rose, I said now, I hear that 
you does go with Lonnie and all the time 
you was over there. .. she said I don't know 
a Lonnie. 


Then I pulled the pint of liquor out of 
the coat pocket and she said, You ain't got 
no coke. Now she would not drink no 
coke, but also she would not drink at all 
unless I got coke to drink with mine cause 
she knowed how I can't drink without coke. 
But she had red rock cola, which wasn't 
a coke cola and I hate them imitations, you 
know. She knowed this, and she said well, 
you didn't tell me you were going to get 
rum, so the only thing in the box is that 
Red Rock. I said well, after you been out 
there with that cat all this here time, you 
couldn't even think just to get me a coke 
cola. 


So we set there looking at TV and I 
don't know what was on TV, but there 
was noise and there was a picture. So she 
said, like this, she. gets right up, after about 
five minutes, and she said, Lonnie, she said 
goddamit, she said come on and get me my 
clothes I want to go home to Lucas. 


So, I don't say nothing, because I don't 
want to shut her up. I want to hear the 
whole details. So I followed her when she 
gets up and walks to Jim's room, followed 
her. just listening, and r m bare-footed 
and she bare-footed and she got on nothing 
but her panties and she ain't got on no bra. 
So she say, say you know, Lucas going to 
kill me, he .going to kill you too. First 
thing he going to kill you. But no, she say, 
maybe he too smart, he probably got a 
bitch over there in the house now. That 
had her so worried, she talking to Lonnie 
and saying over and over, He got a woman 
there, Sally been all over there. That damn 
man, she says, he got that goddam Sal. 


Then we went to fighting. Because it, 
it got right to me that this cat has been 
living with her for three weeks and she done 
tell me I ain't got nobody I just been saving 
for you. So I just went to hitting on her. 
What you saving for me, I say, what you 
been saving. 


That was the last that I remembered 
that night. I wasn't hitting her with any· 
thing except my hands. I wasn't even hit-
ting her with my fists just at the start of it. 
And she was hitting me, I mean she was 
kicking me and she was hitting me and then 
I was drunk, cause every time she kicked 
me or hit me, I'd fall further than I thought 
I could possibly falJ, and every time I'd 
fall further and fall against the wall, further, 
I would get madder and I would come back 
with something. Maybe I just didn't want 
to fall again. 


Then she got the mop and I used the 
mop handle. When she got loose from that 
she got the broom and I got it from her and 
then I used the broom. 


One time I hit her with a chair. Be-
cause all the time I hit her I knocked her 
down, but then she'd kick me with some-
thing, so I hit her with the chair. Next I 
got, you know, I got electric cord, I had 
about fifty feet. It wasn't plugged in, 
I plugged it in this morning because I had 
to plug it in for the TV, but that was when 
I didn't know she was dead. I slept with 
her all night, but I didn't know she was 
dead. 


But then she wasn't hurt, I wasn't hurt. 
I come up with the cord and I didn't hit 
her with it, I just reached and put it round 
her throat and thats when I was dragging 
her around the floor, her head then, not 
her throat because I wasn't choking her, I 
think there was too many cords just going 
around there to choke her .... 


If you look in the trash can you'll see 
her nightgown and everything, I put that 
in there this morning and I ~opped the 
floor this morning, but I still didn't know 
she was dead. Don't get me wrong, I didn't 
know she was dead until I got through with 
all that and she still wouldn't say nothing .... 


But at the time it was before anything 
happened like she getting killed. Fifty feet 
of cord I had then and it all doubled up, so 
I just grabbed that and throwed it around 
her head and drug her in the kitchen again ... 


... blood all over the kitchen all over the 
living room, blood all over the bed, cause 
she had went in and got into the bed and 
she was running, she was running, but she 
would never tell me nothing. I said OK, I 
said, tell me, just tell me, goddarn it, cause 
I'm going to kill you if you don't. 


Well, she wouldn't tell me, so I said 
OK, I ain't going to hit her no more, she 
ain't going to tell me. Then I took her in 
the bathroom and I stuck her head under 
the cold water and I seen blood coming out 
of her nose and I hold her under there until 
blood was a-coming out, I see blood, and 
then she hold her head up again and I let 
her up, and she hold her head up, and all I 
was trying to do was not to kill her. But at 
the same time then when I was saying to my-
self how not to kill her, I was saying I would 
kill her: out loud, I was repeating to her, I'll 
kill you, I'll kill you, kill you, and whe.n she 
get up, and blood in that water and every-
thing, I wiped her face and I said well, you 
got something to tell me, and she say, No I 
don't Lucas. I didn't do it. 


When I come back with half a pint 
she's laying in the tub. I come back there 
and I hit her on the shoulder. Come on, I 
said come on get in bed, and she got up and 
walked to that bed, and that was something 
about 3:00 when I walked her to bed. 


Then all I know that this, that she said 
she was hurting, but she was walking when 
she went to bed. 


Come morning when I wake, I cried . 
I cried, I tried to beg her pardon, cause I 
didn't think she was dead. I thought she did 
.vhat she always do, she was playing possum. 
Then I went in and ftxed Jim something to 
eat, but all this time I kept feeling she was 
getting colder and colder, and so I opened 
her mouth with her teeth and everything 
and then I set her hand a different way, and 
still she had it that way. She was getting 
colder and I ftgured she was dead and I told 
her I was sorry. 


But I wouldn't tell Jim, I knowed I 
had to get him out of there. So I brought 
Sam on over to the Avenue and the ftrst 
person I run into was her brother. I didn't 
tell him, cause I wanted some time to be 
able to walk down town ... .l did kill some-
body and I thought maybe when you kill 
somebody you're dangerous and I wanted 
to walk in, so I left her brother, and I told 
a friend of mine and he said don't go down-
town, and I said I got to, and he said no, she 
probably up over there now cooking there. 
Well, I said, I ain't got no key, I left the key 
in the house, the key is in the house, and he 
said, well I'm going to check. He took off 
then, and I went with him up to half a 
block from the house, but then I turn and 
run, and I come straight downtown. 


That's all I know now, that's the 
truth in my best knowledge. I was whup-
ping her, I wasn't killing her. She just went 
to bed with me. I took her to bed, and she 
didn't talk with me, she just come into bed, 
and said I'm hurting. I didn't believe that 
she was hurting as moch as she said, because 
I know if she stay up that long she couldn't 
be hurting like that. But then when I woke 
up and she was dead, I tried everything to 
wake her but she was dead. This ain't only 
sorry now. I'm .. .l'm '6filling to give my 
life. I think I was wrong, but now I know 
not only that, but that she knowed that I 
was killing her at the time. And that's 
what hurts so, is that she knowed I was 
killing her, and how it took so long. What 
really makes me wrong is how what I was 
asking her to do was just admit that she 
was wrong and there I was and I was doing 
all the wrong. 

David Rosen, free lance writer, is a third 
year student at Yale Law School. 


<br>

**Title: Letters**
**Author: Larry Magarik**
**Page number(s): 11**

Letters 
To the editors and readers of The New 
Journal, 
The rally held on the Green November 9th 
was the first I have seen in which students 
comprised only a small percentage of the 
participants gathered. The rally was in 
support of the Farah Pants Boycott, an 
attempt to ftght the oppression of Chicano 
workingwomen in Texas and New Mexico 
by the huge Farah Company.--- one which 
refuses to allow the formation of a union, 
preferring to have strikers arrested on ex-
orbitant bail for simple acts of picketing. 
The result? As one Chicano union organ-
izer said about his people, "We are timid--
--because we are intimidated." 


The men and women at that Saturday ral-
ly---representing a host of unions and join-
ed by YPSL---knew that the rally was only 
a minor step in the struggle to transform 
America into a land of justice. I was proud 
because unlike the people at many student-
oriented political rallies, those I was among 
would not be easily disillusioned and quit, 
because they started out with no illusions 
about the society they struggled against 
and the measures needed to produce 
change within it. 


Now that the anti-serious New Left has 
faded into waterbeds, beer and "tranquil-
ity," it is easy enough for students tore-
turn to a life of isolation from society. So 
it shouldn't be too much to ask for stu-
dents not to do something. For those 
who support the right of poor workers 
to organize and live decently, the thing to 
do is Not Buy Farah Pants--at Macy's, 
Malley's, and wherever strikebreaking 
stores continue to order them. Don't 
buy injustice. 

Larry Magarik.



**Title: The Groundlings**
**Author: David Milch**
**Page number(s): 12**

The Groundlings 
by David Milch 
David Milch 's The Groundlings follows a 
family for the three days between the 
death of its youngest member in an auto-
mobile and his funeral. Almon Little III, 
"Judgy, "named and nicknamed for his 
grandfather, is survived by his parents, 
James and Mary Emily, and two broth-
ers, Phillip and Mark. Six weeks prior to 
the death the father was expelled fro.m 
the home. 


Mark is a student at Cornell Univer-
sity, as was his younger brother. In this 
chapter he is en route to Toronto, Cana-
da, to pick up his older brother, whose 
air flight from Los Angeles to Buffalo 
has been re-routed because of a snow-
storm. Mark has been awake for twenty-
four hours. 


The trip from Ithaca to Buffalo normal-
ly takes less than two hours, but the snow 
made visibility poor, and the road slip-
pery, and Mark was able to drive at no 
more than half the usual rate of speed. 
The trip was further prolonged by his 
having to make two stops for coffee, for 
though he drove with the heater turned 
off, and the window on his side of the car 
rolled half way down, he experienced con-
siderable difficulty in staying awake. 


Once, a few miles outside of Buffalo, he 
did in fact doze off, and barely awakened 
in time to bring the car under controL He 
stopped for the next hitch-hiker he saw. 


The hitch-hiker trotted toward Mark's 
car, his chin tucked in to the collar of the 
long blue overcoat which he wore against 
the cold. Apparently he had been trying 
to get a ride for some time, as his cheeks 
and ears were quite red, and he was shiv-
ering noticeably. Mark leaned across the 
front seat, opening the door for him, and 
got in, smiling. "Bless you.'' 


"Where are you going?" Mark asked. 
"Are you going north?" 
"I'm going . . . Yes, north is fine." 
"Toronto? I can give you a ride any-
where up to there." 
"Toronto is fine. Yes." 


Mark put the car into gear, checked 
the rear-view mirror, then slowly pulled 
back onto the road. "How long were you 
out there?" 
" I believe about an hour or so. I lost 
track .. .I believe about an hour." The 
hitch-hiker unbuttoned his overcoat, and 
took a deep breath. "Really, thank you. It 
was awfully cold." 
"No, I was about to fall asleep. I need-
ed someone to keep me up." 
"Well, that's all right. That doesn't. .. 
It was still very kind." The hitch-hiker 
looked over at Mark. "Are you ... Where 
are you coming from? Have you been on 
the road long?" 
"I left Ithaca around three hours ago. 
Not that long. But I've been up a while. 
I needed someone to keep me up." 


The hitch-hiker watched the sign for 
the Peace Bridge Exit pass by his window. 
He was silent for a moment, then cleared 
his throat. "Say, did you want to get off 
at the Peace Bridge? Is that the way to 
Canada?" 
"What, did we pass it?" 
"Just a little while ago. I just saw the 
sign." 


Mark exhaled heavily, stopped the car, 
and after waiting for a lull in traffic, 
crosSed the median. scraping the bottom 
of the car on the conC{ete curb. He mut-
tered an obscenity. then slid down in the 
seat, draping his right arm over its back. 
"Thanks." 
"Well for a minute I thought you 
might be taking a short-cut. But then I 
thought I'd tell you, in case you missed 
the sign." 


Mark glanced at him. "Thanks." 
"Well, with the snow, I knew it was 
hard to see." 


They reached the toll-barriers on the 
American side of the bridge. Mark handed 
the toll-officer a quarter, and asked about 
the driving conditions from .the border to 
Toronto. The toll-officer replied that he'd 
suggest they take the King's Highway, it 
ought to have been ploughed and should 
be clear all the way. Mark thanked him, 
and they proceeded to the Customs Area 
on the Canadian side, where they were 
asked their places of birth, Mark' replying 
Buffalo, and the hitch-hiker Grand Rap-
ids, and were then issued a temporary 
travel· permit. 


Mark handed the permit to the hitch-
hiker as they drove away from the Cus-
toms Area. He took the turn marked 
"King H", drove a half-circle, and picked 
up the highway. It had not been plough-
ed, and traffic was moving slowly. "Well 
this is just terrific. This is just frigging 
ballsy. We ought to make it in about 
twelve hours." 


The hitch-hiker couldn't get the glove 
compartment open. "Say, I think this is 
stuck. I can't. . .I think it must be 
stuck." He held the permit out to Mark. 
"Do you ... " 
"Well put it in the visor or something. 
I don't care what you do with it. Put it 
in the visor." Mark sank back down in the 
seat. "Look at this. This is the road that 
was going to be ploughed." 


They drove a while in silence, the 
hitch-hiker periodically checking the se-
curity of the permit in the visor, and oth-
er-wise occupying himself with staring at 
the passing farmlands. Mark had raised his 
window, and now again draped his right 
arm over the back of the seat. After a few 
moments his eyes began to close, his grip 
relaxed on the wheel, and the car drifted 
into the passing lane. A Greyhound which 
was perhaps fifty yards behind them and 
rapidly approaching sounded its horn and 
blinked its headlights. Mark sat up quick-
ly and steered the car back to the right. 
He massaged the lower portion of his face 
with his right hand, and looked over at the 
hitch-hiker, who had not shifted his gaze 
from the bleak scenery. "Hey, you know 
you're supposed to be keeping me awake. 
I didn't pick you up for your looks." 


The hitch-hiker turned quickly. "What 
... Oh, I'm sorry." 
"We nearly got labelled, while you 
were away." 
" I was .. .I'm sorry." 


Mark did not speak for a moment. 
Then, half-turning to the hitch-hiker, but 
with his eyes still on the road, said, "Well 
look, why don't you ... You're a pretty 
reliable type aren't you? Did you ever do 
time?" 
"No ... I ... " 
"I mean if I were to let you drive my 
short, you wouldn't whack me over the 
head or anything. While I sleep? I've got 
to get some sleep." 


The hitch-hiker flushed. "I'm ... The 
trouble is, I'm afraid I can't drive yet." 


Mark glance over at the hitch-hiker. 
then ·looked back to the road. "How old 
are you? You look ... C'mon. You've got 
to be older than eighteen. Sixteen. for 
Christ's sake. It's still daylight." 


The hitch-hiker shifted on the seat. 
"No, I'm twenty-three. I'm old enough. 
The thing is, I don't know how yet. I 
never learned." 


Mark nodded. "That's just ... How 
can you get to be twenty-three and not 
know how to drive a car?" 
"I'm sorry. I just ... I don't know." 


The hitch-hiker took the permit from the 
visor. "I never got around to it. I never 
learned." 


"Boy, the shit is getting to hit the fan. 
You can't ... "Mark looked over at the 
hitch-hiker. "Here, well don't poop out 
on me for Christ's ~ake. You saw what ... 
Sing songs or something. Make a little 
small talk." 
"Well, uh, what would you like ... Shall 
we ... shall I introduce myself?" 
"Great. Right." 
"Well, my name is Paul Yerman." He 
smiled and offered his hand. "How do 
you do?" 
"Fine Paul." Mark nodded to him. 
"Real well, thanks." 


Paul hesitated for a moment before 
lowering his hand. "Well, and, uh, I'm 
from Grand Rapids, in Michigan." 
"Is that right?" 
"Yes, and ... Say, uh, did you tell me 
your name? I'm sorry." 
"Mark. From Buffalo, in New York." 
"Oh . Pleased ... " Paul began to raise 
his hand, then lowered it to the seat a-
gain, picking up the permit. "And ... 
Well, I go to school. To the Divinity 
School, at Yale." 
"You do, eh? You meet a better class 
of people on the road these days." Mark 
glanced quickly at Paul, then colored 
slightly. "What, and you're going home 
now? For vacation or SOJl'!ething?" 


Paul folded the permit in half. "No, 
my father ... passed away. Last evening. 
I'm going home now, for the funeral." 
"Oh, I'm sorry." Mark looked over at 
Paul. "I'm sorry. That's too bad." 
"Well, it was quite sudden. My mother 
said it was quite sudden ... and painless. 
We have that to be thankful for." Paul 
turned and stared out the window. 


"Actually, I'm ... "Mark's face had 
gone red. "Well, I'm sorry. I'm ... God, 
they don't put anyorie in the chorus any· 
more." 


Paul did not reply, and Mark kept his 
eyes on the road during the silence which 
followed. After a few moments he opened 
his window, glancing at Paul. "Look do 
you mind if ... Is this going to bother 
you? I mean as long as you're not going 
to talk ... " Mark rubbed his face, and 
took a long, slow breath. "What I mean is, 
it's all right, you know, if you don't want 
to talk. I understand. But rm going to 
fall asleep, I promise you, if I don't open 
the window. I can't keep my eyes open." 


Paul turned back to Mark. "No ... 
I'm really, I'm flne. No, but open the 
window. But I'm flne. I'd like ... I'm 
happy to talk to you." He smiled weakly. 
"Really." 


Mark smiled too. "We may wind up 
with ruptured tongues." 
"Excuse me?'' Paul rubbed his thumb 
along the edge of the folded permit. "I'm 
afraid I didn't ... I must not have been 
paying ... " 


Mark laughed. "Nothing, Rebop. What 
are you taking in school?" 
"I still don't ... Is that what you were 
saying? I'm afraid ... " 
"No, what I wanted to know was what 
are you majoring in? In Divinity School. 
Do they have that?"



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: David Milch**
**Page number(s): 13-14**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Volume six, number two I December 14, 19721 13 
"Oh. they don't have majors." 

"They don't," Mark said. 

"No, they have areas of concentration. 
One concentrates on the faith or· on the 
... denomination of his choice. Well ac-
. tually I suppose it's the same thing." 

"Sure. What was your area?" 

"Well ... Until a short while ago, I 
was concentrating on Calvinist Theology. 
Especiall)' on the theology of the Dutch 
Reformed Church. And also on the his-
tory of the Dutch Reformed Church. I've 
studied ... For three and a half years I 
concentrated on the theology and the his-
· tory of the Dutch Reformed Church." 

"Uh-huh. What'd you switch to? 
What's your area now?" 

"Oh, you wanted ... I changed, yes. 
Just a short while ago." 

Mark ran his fingers through his hair, 
looking at the rear-view mirroe, then back 
to the road. "Uh-huh. To what, was what 
I wanted to know." 

"Oh. Yes. To Catholic theology. From 
Calvinist ... From Dutch Reformed." 

Paul turned back to the window. 

Mark glanced at Paul, then wiped his 
mouth, looking back to the road. 

They drove a while without speaking. 

Mark changed positions every few mo-
ments, frequently massaging his wrists 
and his neck, and occasionally looking 
over at Paul, who did not shift his gaze 
from the window for perhaps a quarter of 
an hour. At the end of this time he looked 
down and absently retrieved the permit, 
which had fallen to the floor-board of the 
car. He stared at it for a moment before 
suddenly turning to Mark. "Do you know, 
are you at all familiar with the history of 
the Dutch Reformed Church? In, for ex-
ample, South Africa? Do you know it's 
history?" 

Mark looked at Paul for a long mo-
ment. The car began to swerve, and he 
turned back to the road. " Uh, no. No, I'm 
not. Why do you ask?" 

"The Dutch Reformed Church has 
been the most powerful ... has been re-
sponsible, almost single-handedly, for 
every ... action, taken by South Africa, 
for the past three hundred years. Do you 
know that?" 

Mark took a slow breath. "No, uh-uh." 

"Slavery, for example, has been sup-
ported, vehemently advocated by the lead-
ing voices in the Church. Not only ... 
The Church has sanctioned the suppres-
sion, not only of the blacks, but of the 
Indians, the half-castes ... The Church 
has sanctioned the suppression of their 
rights. Did you know that?" 

"I ... you know, just what I read ... " 

"Oh, I know you might raise questions 
about the English. The fact that South 
Africa was an English colony." 

Mark rubbed the back of his neck. 

"Right. Right." 

"But the English have never involved 
themselves in South Africa's ... internal 
affairs. The English ... historically, the 
English have been concerned with South 
Africa only as a refueling station. For 
their ships. They settled only in the coas-
tal areas: But the Dutch, you see, carne to 
settle the land. They weren't ... the 
Dutch carne to live. Eventually they oc-
cupied the whole of the interior." 

Mark shifted in his seat. "There it is." 

"And then, you see, when the Suez 
Canal was built, why the English lost in-
terest. During virtually the whole of the 
nineteenth century, the English ... So 
that really it was not the English at all. 
It was the Dutch, the Boers, who were ... 
responsible." Paul turned to Mark. "Do 
you see?" 

"The Boers." 

"Exactly." 

"Hey Paul ... " 

"And it was the faith of Calvin which 
was the structuring ... force. In their lives. 
It was ... Are you familiar at all with Cal-
vinism. With its doctrines?". 

"No. Not intimately, no. Hey, Paul, lis-
ten to me for a second. I mean, don't mis-
understand me, I'm interested in this, you 
know, under ordinary circumstances. But 
I mean, I'm kind of tired right now, and I 
thought ... I mean let's talk, you know, 
but I'm not up to anything too heavy." 

Paul stared at Mark for a second, then 
loqked down. "I'm ... sorry. I shouldn't 
1be ... I was very ... involved, with the 
Church, for some time. I shouldn't ... " 

"No, I mean, ordinarily ... " 

"I'm certain you have your own ... 
concerns. I shouldn't ... And I, too, I 
suppose, should concern myself ... " 

Paul fell silent. 

Mark glanced over at him. "Hey, don't 
... I mean, let's talk, you know. I just 
meant if we could lighten up." 

Paul did not reply. 

After a moment, Mark nodded. "Paul." 

When Paul dtd not respond Mark shook 
his head. "Oh, Paul." 

Paul turned to him. "I'm sorry. I 
wasn't ... " 

Mark sank down in the seat. "Is, uh, 
predestination, is that ... God, this is 
" 

"Excuse me?" 

"Is predestination, I mean I'm kind of 
a free-lance Episcopalian, but aren't the 
Calvinists ... Isn't predestination ... " 

"Double predestination. Double ... " 

"Double. Right." 

" ... election." Paul turned so that he 
faced Mark. "The Calvinists believe not 
only ... not only that God elects certain 
souls for salvation, but also that He elects 
those who are to be damned. Did you ... 
They believe ... Well don't you see? 
Where does the idea of election first ap-
pear? Among what people?" 

"The Jews, right?" 

"The Israelites. Among the twelve 
tribes of Israel. The idea of election frrst 
appears among the tribes who call them-
selves the People of the Covenant." Paul 
paused for a moment. "Now when the 
Boers, the Trek-Boers they were called, 
when they went into the interior .. . 
Well, it was natural, given their ... theo-
logy, given the idea of election, it was in-
evitable they should begin to see parallels. 
Between themselves, and the children of 
Israel. Lost in the wilderness, wander-
ers ... 

"The literature is ... I've seen them, 
you know. I've studied their diaries, and 
many of them contain outright ... as-
sertions. That the Boers had been one of 
the lost tribes, had been scattered, and 
were now reunited. I've seen ... And when 
they encountered the Bantu? When they 
first made contact with the tribes of the 
Ama-Xhosa, in the Orange River valley? 
Who, logically, must ... Well if the Boers 
were to be the people of the Covenant, 
elected by God, chosen by him to be His 
people, who, logically, must the Bantu 
be?" 

Mark turned. ''The Philistines." 

"The Canaanites. Of course. Trespas-
sers on the land of Israel. Usurpers of the 
land of milk and honey, promised to Is-
rael by the Lord." Paul sat back in his 
seat. After a moment his gaze moved to 
the window. "For three hundred years 
the Boers have suppressed the Bantu, in-
voking scripture, citing the Calvinist the-
ologians, while the Church ... " They 
passed a sign indicating that a service area 
was a mile ahead. Mark checked the gas 
gauge. " . · .. has capitulated. Not capitu-
lated. The Church has been one of the as-
vocates, the foremost advocate of the i-
dea." 

"Hey Paul." 

"Of course this phenomenon ... We 
see this pattern repeated among the Cal-
viitists everywhere. Among .. . The only 
difference is, they've never ... in any 
other area, they've never gained power. 
Not on a scale ... In other areas, a cos· 
mopolitan culture develops, surrounds 
them, and the process is ... confined. 
But it is repeated. On a smaller scale, to be 
be sure ... But in Grand Rapids, for ex-
ample ... It is repeated. The persecutions 

want some food?" 

.. Well, I'd like, if you don't mind waiting, 
I'd like a pastry." 

"Hey, no, sure." 

"If you'd rather not..." 

"No, cook. C'mon, you pick one out 
for me ... 

Paul looked at him. "Oh, 1..." 

"No, go ahe'ad." 

Paul turned to the pastry tray. "Well, 
this looks like an apple, here. And I think 
this is a cheese. Would you like ... " Paul 
turned to Mark. "Would you like ... " 

"You're the boss." 

Paul turned back to the tray. "Well, 
this is ... No, this is another apple. And these 
over here I think are blueberries. Which if 
they are, are my personal favorites." 

"Two blueberries, you're on." 

Paul quickly put a pastry on each of two 
plates, and handed one to Mark. They 
carried them, along with their coffee, to the 
cash-register. Paul put his food down and 
reached into his pockets. 

Mark had three quarters in his hand. 

r 

"Hey, that's all right." 

Mark turned to the approach lane .or 
the service area. 

"No, please, I'd .. .It's my pleasure." 

" ... committed in the name of God 
Paul unwrinkled a five dollar bill and 
that are ... unacceptable. I renounce, I 
offered it to the cashier. 'Tm sorry, It's 
cannot ... The persecutions committed 
the only .. .I don't have anything smaller." 

in the name of Calvin's God are ... unac-
The cashier looked past Paul to the change 
ceptable." 

in Mark's hand. Paul put the bill on top of 
They came to a stop in the restaurant 
the cash-register. "Here. Please." 

parking-lot. Mark sat in silence for a 
The cashier stared at Paul for a moment, 
moment, leaning back in his seat, his 
then slowly took the bill and made change, 
hands clasped behind his neck. Paul stared 
laying it on the counter beside Paul's 
out the window for a short time, then 
outstretched hand. Paul put it in his 
looked at Mark. "Oh, we're ... , 

pocket, picked up his food, and thanked 
"We're at a restaurant." Mark's voice 
her very much. 

was quiet. "I'm gonna go get some gas, 
They walked to a table and sat down. 
and why don't you get some coffee? All 
"Hey, thanks." 

right? Do you want some coffee? That 
"No, I was glad to. It was my pleasure." 
might be good for you." 

. 
Paul smiled at Mark, who was absently 
"We're ... Coffee? Well ... Of course. 
spooning the foam from the hot chocolate 
Certainly." Paul slowly began to unbut-
into an empty water glass. "Would you ... 
ton his coat. He looked over at Mark. "One After you've tasted it, tell me how you 
would not ... if one were to renounce 
liked the blueberry danish. l'm ... Don't 
that God ... " 

rush though. Take your time." 

"Paul, wait a second." Mark looked 
Mark glanced at him, then picked up his 
out at the frozen ruts in the snow which 
fork and cut a piece of the pastry, washing 
covered the parking lot. "See I haven't 
it down with a swallow of coffee. He 
been following you too well in this, is the 
smacked his lips. "I mean, is that New 
problem. I've had kind of a hard day at 
York City, or not? That is like New York 
the office myself, and, uh, my, you know, 
City." He paused for a moment, then 
my empathy threshold is, you know, kind 
looked down and muttered. "To borrow 
of low. See so I don't know. I don't know a phrase." 

abcut any of that." Paul was looking down 
"Is it ... You like it? Blueberries are my 
now, trying to fit the top button of his 
favorites." 

coat into its hole. The color had left his 
"Sure. New York City. Great." Mark 
face. Mark leaned across him and opened 
picked up a sugar-packet and began to 
his door. "Look, you go into the cafeteria, shake it. "There I was, cruising along, 
okay? And I'll get gas and meet you. 
immaculate to beat the band ... " 

Okay? Go get some coffee." 


Paul slowly got out of the car. "Coffee. 
"Nothing. A bag of shells. I was ... An 
Of course." 

unfortunate word-choice." 

After he'd bought gas Mark parked the 
"I don't..." 

car and walked into the restaurant, where 
"What I said ... A fact which was not... 
Paul was standing beside a stack of trays 
conditioning me, for a little while, just 
near the food-counters. Eaeh got a tray. 
started to condition me again. That's all. 
Paul drew a cup of coffee, and Mark one 
How's the Church?" 

hot chocolate. Then he asked whether 
Paul stared at Mark briefly, then looked 
Paul would like anything else, otherwise 
down. "I'd like to ... apologize. I'm sorry 
they could get out of the line and pay the 
if I bored you. l'm .. J was very involveq, 
cashier. Apparently Paul didn't hear him. 
with ... the Dutch Reformed Church. For 
Mark lowered his eyes and repeated the 
some time. Until a short while ago. I 
question. 

didn't mean to .. J'm sure you have your 
Paul hesitated briefly, then said, " Well, 
own concerns." 

if you wouldn't mind waiting, I'd .. .I would 
"It's all right," Mark said. "Don't 
like a pastry." His voice was barely audible. 
worry about it." 

" I...Uh, say it again. I didn't hear the 
"Well, I just wanted to apologize." 

last part." 

"It's all right. Let's maintain 
"I'd like ... Well, if you'd rather. .. We 
equilibrium here, okay? Let's not. .. " 

don't have to. I'm not that hungry." 
Mark smiled thinly. "We're like New York 
"Well, I'd like, if you don't mind waiting, City." 


Paul smiled too, and ate a piece of
pastry. "Well fine. I just wanted to...
Fine." He sipped his coffee. "Well, and
you're on vacation now, are you? You're
out of scbool now?"

Mark did not speak for a moment. He
lowered his eyes. "Ah, the irony of it all.
I fall upon the thorns ... The flagellation of it all."

"I'm sorry. I'm afraid ... "

"In the sense that school is out, in that
particular sense I am on a vacation." Mark
took a hesitant breath. "Look, are you
done? Let's ... Would you mind if we left
now? I'm in kind of a hurry."

Paul rose quickly. "No, not at all. I
didn't realize ... Of course."

Mark got up too, draining the remnant
of his coffee. He put the cup down, and
raised the collar of his coat, then stretched,
shivering. "Are you ready?"

"Yes. Certainly."

"Then we shall be on our way."

They got back on the King's Highway.
The snow had slackened somewhat, and
road conditions were better, so that Mark
was able to make up some of the time lost
during the earlier part of the trip. After
perhaps twenty minutes driving they passed
a sign indicating that Toronto was
seventeen miles distant, and the airport
twenty-three. Mark asked Paul whether
it would be all right if he were to drop him
at an exit for Toronto instead of taking
him into the city, he had to meet a plane.
Paul replied that that would be fine, but
did not respond to Mark's inquiry as to
which exit would be best for him. When
Mark repeated the question he finally
answered that the truth was, he didn't
know, he wasn't familiar with the city.
Mark looked over at him, then began to
drum his fingers on the steering-wheel.
"What do you mean? Did you just move
up here?"

Paul hesitated for a moment before
speaking. "No, that's not...Actually any
exit is fine."

"Well, but which one? The airport's on
the_ other side ~f tow'!~ I can drop you at
wh!~hever one IS best.
Uh, actually I don't...Toronto is not
my ... final destination."

"What, are you going further north?"

"No, I'm .. .headed, ultimately, for
Grand Rapids. In Michigan."

Mark kept his _ey~ on the road. Finally he rolled down his wmdo~, and tur~ed the
heater off, then cleared his throat.
"I want you to correct me if I'm wrong here
Paul, but, I wo~d have to say that right
now you re gomg out of your way. Is that
t ?"

~ell , I "! not..J, ~·was~ t sure of
<~frecttons. I ve neve~ h1~~h-hiked before.
I ve always_taken t~ns.

Mark shivered.
May I, would tt be safe
to ~.ssume, th~~· that you're tap-city?"

I don t...
;;vou're broke, is tha~ correct?"

Yes. W~~· I have a little more than
fou.~ dollars.

· And I ~~ve e1ght dollars. Which makes
how much·

;;Twelve dollars."

Corr~ct. Now, ~o you have a check
or any~hing~ An~~!"ng you could use to
get .~ P an; ticke~ ·

No, I m afraJd ... l ve never had a
checking account."

"And I have no checks. Which leaves
us where?"

"Well ... "

"Behind the eight-ball Paul, as the
saying goes. Holding our own." Mark
rubbed the back of his hand against his
mouth. "Urn, I can't believe ... For
Christ's sake, why would you ... Look, I
don't know how ... Are you sure you're
all right? I mean, I know you're upset,
that's very understandable, with a death
and all, but, uh, are you sure you're in
control of yourself!"

"I am ... Yes, 1 am in control of my-
self." Paul's voice rose. "Why would
you .. .I made an error. Of course I am in
control of myself."

" I mean, you know, before we had
coffee you delivered this long disserta-
tion on South Africa, which, I am pretty
sleepy, did not appear to me to have
much to do with the price of eggs. Which
leads me, combined with your broken
compass ... "

" I was attempting ... The history of the
Dutch Reformed Church in South Africa
.. .1 was using that history to illustrate a
similar ... pattern in other areas. In, for
example, Grand Rapids. To illustrate the
reasons which lead to my ... reallignment."

"All right. No one is questioning ... "

"To explain why Catholicism is the
true and proper faith."

"Paul, I'm not trying to fault your
reasoning or anything. I was only point-
ing out that its ... relevance, you know, was
pretty vague, to whatever we were
discussing. I wasn't..."

"Catholicism is the faith of ... forgiveness.
Catholicism teaches, is predicated on,
apprehension of the miracle of Grace. On
the miracle of Christ's intervention.
Catholicism frees man of his legacy. It
frees man of his inheritance of sin."

Mark took a deep breath. "Paul, look.
Why don't you come with me to the
airport and we'll work something out,
okay? Maybe my brother'll have mooey.
Okay? Why don't you relax, get some
sleep or something, until we get to the
airport."

Paul stared at Mark. "You do not feel
that that isn't so? You do not believe
that?"

"I have no opinion. Honest to God
Paul. Just relax, all right?"

"Are you, perhaps, a Calvinist?"

Uh, I
"I am not. .. a Calvinist. 1 am not a
Calvinist. Relax."

"Do you think .. .It is an indefensible ...
Calvinism by emphasizing the idea of
works either as the source or for
example, to cite ... or as a m'anifestation, of
election, as the ... Dutch Reformed Church,
happens to do, Calvinism has made mao,
has endowed man with an unbearable
sense of ... responsibility. Man, unaided ...
Uving with that responsibility must
destroy either ... either the faculty of mer-
cy or, if the burden ... Or the faculty of
belief. In the possibility of goodness.
Man ... cannot accept that."

They passed the first of the exits for
Toronto. Mark wetted his Hps and the
roof of his mouth. "Well, we're almost
there. We're almost there."

"But Catholicism, on the other hand ...
Through Catholicism through its
institutions, Christ di~penses, eternally,
forgiveness of man's sinfulness. And
through forgiving, permits.:.transcen-
dance. Of the sorrow of mortality. Fini-
tude. Permits man to accept himself. His
own nature." Paul took a hesitant breath.
"Do you see? Do you understand that?"

"I do Paul. Hang on."

Paul stared at Mark. ''Do you see

"I do. Yes."

"Are you ... "

"No. Honest to God." Mark's teeth
had begun to chatter. "Take it easy."

"My father. .. could not see that. My
father." Paul looked down. "My father
could not see that. My father eould not
forgive me that. My belief. My father
could not..." Paul again turned to the
window.

Mark looked over at him. He was
silent for a moment, then sank down in
the seat, and said that the next sou~d
heard would be that of the breaking dawn.
After a moment Paul turned halfway
'round in his seat, facing the window.
"Christ...will forgive. Christ will forgive
me. Christ...To show us this, He willed
his crucifixion between the murderer and
the thief. To show that he could forgive
us ... even murder. Even ... "

"That's not so Paul. You didn't..."

" ... crimes such as murder. That he
could forgive ... even murder." Paul looked
down. "Do you suppose He would
forgive ... He will not forgive. We can nev-
er be sure that he will forgive."

"Sure He will. Don't...Paul, it's going
to be all right. Hey."

"We can never be sure you see. It is
possible that even ... even the Dutch
Reformed, for example .. .It is possible
that they are correct. That their beliefs ... "

They passed a road marker indicating
that the airport was a half-mile distant.
"Paul ... "

" ... They may be, you know. We must
not. .. "

"Now give yourself some slack."

" ... condemn them. In fact..Jt is true,
you know, that all of their beliefs are
based on Scripture. Even ... The suppres-
sion of the Bantu, for example, is based,
justified by Scripture. By the story of
Ham. Did you know that? That the
children of ... "

"Paul, please ... "

" ... Ham were cursed for his sin? That
they were cursed by the Lord to be hew-
ers of wood, and drawers of water, for
his sin? Did you know that? That the
Lord cursed Ham and his children, for-
ever?"

"No. Hey Paul ... "

"Did you know that?"

Mark took the turn-off for the airport.

Mark looked over to Paul. "No, I
didn't. I dfdn't...k.now ... that."


"No, I. . .Paul, listen ... "

"Did you?"

"No." No. God." Mark shivered.
"What, uh, what for? Why did God curse
Ham?" Mark parked the car, then slump-
ed in his seat.

"Ham failed of respect to his father.
Ham ridiculed his father's drunkeness."

Mark turned, staring at Paul, but did
not reply.

"Ham came upon his father in shame,
and did not shield his eyes. Seeing him
drunk and naked, Ham called his brothers
to witness."

Mark flashed a wan smile. "Come on."

"The curse was uttered becaus.e the son
failed of respect to the father."

"That is merely an unfortunate ...
juxtaposition. I do not choose ... "

Paul opened the door on his side. "The
Lord cursed ... The Lord does not forgive.
The Lord works through curses. The
Lord has .. .': He got out of the car.
"Paul now wait. Even ... " Mark slid
across the seat, half-rising from the car,
and took Paul's arm. "Hey."

"No! I am not fit...l am unclean.''

"Usten .. .'' Mark rose from the car,
holding Paul's arm.

"No!" Paul tried to push Mark down.
Mark struggled for a moment, then slip-
ped on the wet snow. His feet went out
from under him, and he fell forward,
striking his head against the side of the
door. He went to his knees, his right hand
hand moving to cover a long gash on his
forehead.

Paul took a step backward, looking
down at him. "You ... Oh my Lord, are
you all right?"

Mark was silent, staring dully at the
drops of blood which fell to the snow
from between his fingers. Finally,
without looking up, he said "Get away
from me. Get out of here."

"Oh my ... "

"You crazy bastard. Get out of here."

Paul got to one knee. "Shall I..." He
reached for his hankerchief. "Here.
Please."

"Get out. I mean it."

Paul did not move for a short while
longer, than lay the hanker chief in the
snow and rose very slowly. "I'm sorry.
Please forgive me."

Mark did not reply, and kept his eyes
down staring at the blood on the snow.
After a moment Paul began to weep,
biting his forefinger, and started through
the parking-Jot toward the road that led
to the King's Highway.

David Milch teaches creative writing
at Yale.

©Copyright 1972 by David Milch.


**Title: RIGHT COMPONENTS AT THE RIGHT PRICE**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
RIGHT COMPONENTS AT THE RIGHT PRICE 
oe •• ... 
Fred Locke is known for its values 
because: 
We specialize only in components 
which we know are good. 
We carry a wide selection of brands. 
We maintain full service facilities. 
We back up all sales with a money-back 
satisfaction guarantee. 
If you purchase this system and feel it 
is not the value you thought it would 
be, return it within one week for a 
full refund. Ask us for details. 
A perfect 
system for 
those who are 
just getting 
into music 
. . . 
.....u., 
._£_; 
. •.. -- .,_ 
.... 

A COMPONENT SYSTEM AT A PORTABLE 
PRICE: OUR $199 SYSTEM, USUALLY $280. 
SANSUI 210 AM/ FM STEREO RECEIVER 
BSR 310X AUTOMATIC TURNTABLE 
CREATIVE MODEL 22 LOUDSPEAKERS 
It used to be that for under two hundred dollars 
you could only get a portable. But now Fred Locke 
has changed all that by putting together a system 
whose components have been carefully selected to 
complement each other, so that you get the 
highest possible fidelity at the lowest possible 
price. The heart of the system is the Sansui 210 
AM/FM receiver. It incorporates many features 
usually only found in the more expensive re· 
ceivers: FET frontend, headphone jack and a 
tuning meter. It has just the right amount of 
power to drive the Creative Model 222 loudspeakers. 
They are efficient two·way acoustic suspension 
speaker systems. The BSR McDonald 310X 
automatic turntable has a low-mass tonearm, vari-
able anti-skating, and a·cueing lever, to treat your 
records with care. The system also includes a base, 
dustcover, and a Shure M75C cartridge. The entire 
system, if bought separately, would cost you 
about $280. We are offering it to you for $199. 
Before the system goes out to you, we check out 
the turntable and receiver and explain all of the 
functions to you ·· so that you may enjoy it 
immediately in your own home. 
Fred Locke 
Stereo 
1533 State Street, New Haven 787 0183 
136 Park Street, New Haven 776 5600 

