Publication date: December 10, 1967
Volume: one
Issue number: five


**MASTHEAD**
- Editors: Gerald Bruck, Daniel Yergin
- Business Manager: Peter Yaeger
- Executive Editor: Jeffrey Pollock
- Designer: Ronald Gross
- Photography Editor: Herman Hong
- Advertising Manager: Robert Reisner
- Associate Editor: Paul Malamud
- Circulation Manager: Jean-Pierre Jordan
- Classifieds: William M. Burstein
- Staff: Wm. Clay Howe, Jonathan Lear, Chris Little, Jonathan Marks, Howard Newman, David Silberstein, Alan Wachtel, and Budd Whitebook


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- The memoirs of George Kennan - Gaddis Smith
- Norman Mailer: existentialist sheriff - Jonathan Aaron
- Eugene O'Neill at a crossroad - Dr. Albert Rothenberg
- Kingman Brewster in television's department of clarification - Daniel Yergin
- Letters
- Comment: Draft ... Money, Candidate, Dramats, Games, Seeger, Recordings, Dow


**Title: Draft ...**
**Author:  Jonathan Lear**
**Page number(s): 2**

In a press conference that will be held 
this week, President Johnson is expected 
to announce a new policy on graduate 
school deferments, according to Gustau 
Arlt, president of the Council of Graduate 
Schools( COS). Arlt interprets the press 
conference as "an extremely hopeful 
sign" that the new draft law scheduled to 
go into effect will be altered. 

Under the Military Selective Service 
Act of 1967, which has not yet been 
enacted, there are no deferments for 
graduate students except in disciplines 
that the National Security Council rules 
in the national interest. Because the new 
law requires the abolition of graduate 
school deferments and that oldest eligible 
males be drafted first, the Yale Graduate 
School could lose up to 40% of its 
students next year. 

A resolution passed by the CGS 
December 2 urges the President to alter 
the planned draft system and to come to 
an early decision, so that both graduate 
students and schools can plan for next 
year. Integral in all the lobbying of 
graduate schools is John Perry Miller, 
dean of the Yale Graduate School and 
president of the Association of Graduate 
Schools (AGS), a group of 41 prestige 
schools that works within the COS. 

"Miller sat in my suite in the Statler 
Hilton until 2 a.m. and helped me write 
the resolutions," said Arlt. 

The CGS's main recommendation for 
changing the draft argues for three basic 
changes. The first is that no discipline be 
designated as more critical than any 
other, since "all fields of higher education 
are of equally critical importance to the 
continued welfare and balanced 
development of the nation." Second, it 
argues that the draft should be based on 
some form of random selection, and third 
that men be drafted at a point of natural 
transition in their education or careers. 

The recommendation makes no plea for 
general deferment of graduate students 
because "the national security transcends 
the interest of any individual or group." 

Miller, as president of the AGS, 
formulated and drafted much in these 
suggestions. 

Miller is confident the pending draft 
laws will be modified, and feels that the 
military is as anxious as he for the 
changes, since it would be forced to draft 
men considerably older than desired. 

"College graduates are too old," says 
Miller. ''They're past their prime. Now 
the military wants some old ones, but a 
good fighting officer is past his prime 
at 21." 

No one is sure bow the law will be 
changed. Both Arlt and Miller predict that 
either the President will suspend the 
institution of this new law for a year in an 
effort to bide time, or a new system of 
random selection will be established. Arlt 
discounted the possibility that there would 
be deferments for special disciplines of 
study, for "that is the law Johnson has in 
front of him, and if he wanted it, he 
would just sign it." 

How the change in the draft laws will 
affect the Yale Graduate School, Miller 
isn't sure, for there are a number of 
contingent problems that must be 
confronted, the most serious being money. 


**Title: ... Money**

With Congress cutting back the number 
of Federal fellowships by one third, the 
Yale Graduate School faces what could 
develop into a serious financial crisis. 

Ironically, the scope of the financial 
problem hinges on the type of draft 
system that is initiated. 

If most of the first and second year 
graduate students are drafted, as they 
would be under the pending law, the crisis 
would be averted, according to John 
Hoskins, director of grant and contract 
administration. The 15,000 Federal 
fellowships to graduate education that 
exist this year have been slashed to 10,000 
for next, and graduate schools face a tight 
financial pinch unless there is a drastic 
reduction in enrollment. 

"In the long run," said Dean Miller, 
"the financial problem is quite serious if 
no changes in federal funding are made 
and if a considerable portion of the 
student body is not drafted." Because of 
the cushioning effect of a Ford 
Foundation grant, there will be no 
significant financial problems at Yale next 
year. However, in years after, the problem 
becomes acute. 

Other schools, more dependent on 
Federal funds than Yale, are already 
faced with financial chaos. The University 
of Illinois is laying off faculty at midyear. 

Miller disagreed with Hoskins' claim 
that wartime spending is responsible for 
Federal cutbacks. "It is not just an 
economy move," said Miller. "There is an 
anti-education spirit in Congress. This 
will have more than a temporary effect." 
-Jonathan Lear 


**Title: Candidate**
**Author: Steven Weisman**

Just before Ronald Reagan, another 
Presidential candidate drumming up 
support for his campaign visited Yale. He 
was Harold E. Stassen, running for the 
office for the fifth time since 1948, this 
time as "the Peace Candidate" in a race 
which be sees focused today on Lyndon 
Johnson and Richard Nixon. 

After the former Minnesota governor 
addressed nearly 100 members of the 
Political Union, someone rose to ask: 
"Mr. Stassen, what are you trying to ac-
complish, aside from creating just another 
target for Mad Magazine?" 

The round-faced Stassen smiled and 
allowed the embarrassed chuckles in the 
audience to die down. "That's a good 
question," he said. Then he went on to 
use some of the phrases which could be 
found in his prepared statement to the 
press: 

"I am well aware that in pressing for 
something I feel strongly about-peace 
in the world-1 must break through a 
heavy crust of cynicism. I must climb 
over a high ridge of ridicule. I have long 
been devoted to the cause of peace. This 
is what I must do." 

"I guess Harold Stassen is a rather 
comic phenomenon," said a Political 
Union member after the candidate's 
speech. "Students want to see just what 
kind of man would do what he's doing. 
That's why most of these people showed 
up here tonight." 

Added the student politician: "Besides, 
he is campaigning on the issues, and he's 
one of the few people who does that when 
it comes to Vietnam. For all that, he's a 
damned interesting guy to listen to." 

Whenever people asked Stassen about 
his views, though, the candidate would 
answer them formally, intoning with his 
sonorous voice as he would to a camera 
and microphone. 

''This is really the first stage of my 
campaign," he explained after his speech. 
"As I see it, the young men and young 
women of America are crucial, and that 
is why I am talking to them first. They 
appreciate honesty, and their impact will 
be decisive. Richard Nixon and George 
Romney spoke at the University of 
Wisconsin and got mixed receptions. 
When I talked there last week, I got a 
standing ovation." 

The candidate continued as he kept 
signing autographs for students: "I've 
decided so far to enter the Wisconsin 
Primary, in April. I'm going out to Utah, 
and then to New York to speak to more 
students. I think I shall continue until 
January 1, when the first stage of my 
campaign ends and it comes time to speak 
to larger groups of voters." 

Stassen had outlined a plan which 
involved "quieting down the war," 
recognizing and negotiating with North 
Vietnam and Red China, retrenching to 
enclaves on the South Vietnamese coast 
until talks begin, and adding Communist 
nations-including East Germany-to 
the United Nations. 

He was applauded warmly for his 
speech, and many people wished him 
good luck. "I appreciate this opportunity 
very much," he said to his audience. "I 
ask you to remember that the people who 
have made the greatest strides in history 
are the ones who have done what other 
men said could not be done." 


**Title: Dramats**
**Page number(s): 2-14**

Yale College 
The Fantasticks, America's longest-
running musical, proved to be Yale's most 
popular play of the week. Capacity 
audiences thundered their appreciation 
and called for the director each night 
(November 29-December 2). The theme 
of the play, the delicate world of innocent 
love being penetrated by the reality of 
pain and despair, is one which "has been 
going in and out of style but is guaranteed 
to raise a smile." Employing the 
Tinkerbelle-audience-involvement 
technique, made famous by Peter Pan, 
narrator-manipulator Ed Gallo lured the 
audience into remembering "that kind of 
September when no one wept except the 
willow." 

Director Ricardo Rodriguez heartily 
stressed the phantasmic nature of the play 
by suspending pastel gossamers from 
chandeliers in the dining room theater, 
by adorning the walls with snowflakes, 
and by making ingenious use of light-the 
strobe light in the mock battle scene and 
continued on page 14 


**Title: Exile's Cry: The Memoirs of George Kennan**
**Author: Gaddis Smith**
**Page number(s): 3**

Memoirs 1925-1950 by George Kennan 
Atlantic-Little Brown, 1967. 

"We Americans," George F. Kennan 
wrote in his private diary in the spring 
of 1949, "have won great wars and 
assumed to ourselves great powers. And 
we have thus become the least free of all 
peoples." Had Kennan, then head of the 
Policy Planning Staff of the Department 
of State, made this observation directly 
to Secretary of State Dean Acheson or to 
President Truman or to the innumerable 
jo.urnalistic pundits busy celebrating the 
tnumph of American virtue, he would 
have been regarded as perverse and 
wrongheaded beyond belief. 

Was not American leadership in the 
cause of freedom the hope of the world? 
What of the success of the Truman 
Doctrine in Greece and the Marshall Plan 
in Western Europe? Did not the signing 
of the North Atlantic Treaty in 
Washington that spring prove the 
willingness of the United States to defend 
Europe against Soviet aggression? Had we 
not democratized Japan and Germany 
through enlightened military occupation? 
Was not Japan ready for a peace treaty 
and Germany for self-government? In the 
face of such achievement could any but 
a madman assert that we were the least 
free of all peoples? 

George Kennan's intellectual 
autobiography, Memoirs 1925-1950 
is fundamentally an explanation of his 
extraordinary, even shocking, but 
persuasive dissent. The book is the most 
remarkable personal account ever written 
by an American diplomat and ranks with 
the most important autobiographies by 
Americans in any field. It should be read 
simultaneously as an essay on ethics in 
international relations and as a code of 
personal conduct for diplomats; as a 
penetrating and ironic set of observations 
about peoples under totalitarian 
government; as a contribution to the 
history of important events in which the 
autho~ participated-for example, the 
esta~hshm~nt of American diplomatic 
relations wtth the Soviet Union the 
transformation of official Amerlcan 
policy toward the Soviet Union in 1946 
the formulation of the Marshall Plan the 
1 949 and 19 50 debates over NATO ~nd 
American nuclear strategy; as a series of 
character sketches of diplomats already 
famous or deserving to be better 
remembered-Charles Bohlen William 
C. B~llitt, Wilbur J. Carr, Jose~h E. 
Davtes, John Paton Davies, Averell 
Harriman, Alexander Kirk, George 
Mess~rsmith; as a moving self-study of 
the dtplomat as outsider; but above all as 
~ sustaine~ exp~a?ation of how and why, 
m Kennan s optnton, the United States 
beca":Je "the least free of all peoples." 

Here ts a more formidable attack on the 
complacent conventional view of 
American diplomacy in the Cold War 
than is likely to be found in a whole 
library of revisionist works by 
neo-Beardian economic determinists. 

Kennan sees himself as an outsider, a 
GADDIS SMITH t~ach~s Am~rican 
diplomatic history at Y a/~ and is now 
wrilina.a hook. nnDPn.n..Arlt1uuo n~ 
detached and troubled observer of the 
thought and life of the twentieth century. 
Even the outwardly trivial episodes of his 
life emphasize his inherited partiality for 
the eighteenth century of his pioneer 
farming ancestors, and his discomfort in 
the highly organized present. He was 
admitted to a modern university 
Princeton, but as the last student to 
arrive was exiled to a remote rooming 
house on the outskirts of town. After 
trying to cope with a Christmas mail 
delivery route in the slums of Trenton 
he caught scarlet fever and missed several 
months of freshman year. He joined an 
eat!ng club and on second thought 
re~tgned to be with the pariah minority of 
Pnnceton undergraduates not invited into 
the clubs. Throughout his career in the 
Foreign Service he was forever missing 
trains, or being overlooked and left 
behind by his superiors. When after ten 
years abroad he returned to his native 
Wisconsin for a summer, he noted in his 
diary, "In the course of a one-hundred-
mile journey I was destined to encounter 
on t~e open road no single fellow-cyclist, 
no smgle pedestrian, no single horse-
drawn vehicle .... The occupants of the 
occasional machines that went whirring 
by ... obviously had no connection in 
the. social sense with the highway over 
whtch they were driving .... They were 
lost spirits, hovering for brief periods on 
another plane, where space existed 
only in time." 

Reflecting now on that experience, 
Kennan writes: "I came away from the 
summer's visit aware that I was no longer 
a part of what I had once been a part of-
no longer, infact, a part of anything at 
all. It was not just that I had left the 
world of my boyhood, although this was 
true; it was that this world had left me. 
It had left everyone else, for that matter· 
but its departure had been sufficiently 
' 
gradual so that those who remained had 
be~n less aware of its passage, and had 
adJ.usted in varying degrees to the change. 
I, hke all other expatriates, simply had 
been left behind." 

Other prominent participants in recent 
American diplomacy have felt a nostalgic 
longing for an earlier age, but not for the 
same pre-industrial eighteenth century so 
dear to Kennan. Dean Acheson, for 
eumple, finds his "Radiant Morn" at the 
turn of the nineteenth century (see the 
evocat.ive first chapter of his memoir, 
Mormng and Noon) when American 
self-confidence and British imperial 
power made the world both joyous and 
predictable-at least to a patrician 
growing up in Middletown, Connecticut. 
John Foster Dulles, as another example, 
emulated the Christian fervor and sense 
of American moral supremacy 
characteristic of Woodrow Wilson's 
vision of the League of Nations. 

But Kennan's ideal society is the 
America of Jefferson, of self-reliant 
farmers who worked hard, set their own 
standards of right conduct, and did not 
meddle in the affairs of others. "They 
asked of government only that it leave 
them alone to struggle in their own way. 
When times were hard, as they often 
were, groans and lamentations went up to 
God, but never to Washington." 

The implications of these different 
ideal pasts are obvious. Acheson, 
admiring the power of Britain in her 
imperial greatness, believed that America 
had of necessity assumed Britain's place 
an<Lmus t ac~theJocomotiv_e o[




**Existentialist sheriff**
**Author: Jonathan Aaron**
**Page number(s): 6**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
On November 20th, Norman Mailer, sponsored by the English Department, gave the year's second Bergen Lecture in the Yale Law School Auditorium. 
His subject had been billed as "Some Thoughts On Censorship and Obscenity," but in a subtly bizarre fashion the audience ended up the topic of the evening.


Norman Mailer is a stocky; almost portly man who makes many claims for himself. One of them is that he is "the dwarf alter ego of Lyndon Johnson." Another is that he is 5'8". He has black hair streaked now with gray, hair so curly when it's not combed that it makes him look like a male Medusa from the Catskills. You can't be more precise in describing Norman Mailer because he partakes of so many things. That's not to say he's derivative, but rather to point out how much he so aptly represents the diversely gifted and diversely cursed society he has with such loyalty cajoled and harangued for years. His voice is nasal and rather high. He speaks quickly, and sounds like James Cagney with a Harvard accent. He has a habit of smiling and squinting his eyes and putting his hands on either side of his stomach. When he does this he looks like a magnate with a business secret, or perhaps your uncle about to tell a dirty joke.


Norman Mailer has rude charisma. He makes you think of W.C. Fields, of Mr. Hyde, of Erasmus, of Celine, of Lawrence, of Bierce, and so forth. Anyway you look at him, however, the honesty of his moral engagement with America isn't hard to see.


The overflow audience he faced was in high, slightly hysterical spirits-a college audience at a movie show. "Some Thoughts on Censorship and Obscenity" was a thrillingly vague title, on the order of "The Brides of Dracula." It was as much the uncertainty about what Norman Mailer might do as what he might say that had many in the audience leering into the abyss of scatological possibility, leering and, really, wanting to be pushed by this man who has had the misfortune to be in recent years a public aspect of our private minds.


Irredeemably engaged, he is the existential man made manifest, his essence revealed in a lot more ways than one. (He loves to speak of "existential" acts and moments.) He has allowed himself through his variegated notoriety to become a public scapegoat. If you take upon yourself the job of being a genuine existentialist hero, which Norman Mailer has done-of acting for everyone, with apocalyptic dispatch-then one of the consequences of your resolve is that everyone will have you act for them, in their stead, and laugh at you or hate you for it.


Norman Mailer is jeeringly, naggingly, vengefully forthright. He makes a lot of mistakes, and therefore he is an easy mark. Furthermore, it's open season on him all year round. You may find it hard to disagree with your spouse, your friendly neighborhood policeman, your Congressman, or the New York Times, but it's awfully easy to disagree with Norman Mailer. After all, we all know what good taste is.


He was probably a little nervous as he stepped over the aisle-sitters on his way to the podium, smiling his mysterious, engaging smile and wearing a battered Brooks Brothers trench-coat. Perhaps deliberately, his entrance was that of a prize-fighter making his way, in this case through scattered applause, towards the circumscribed arena in which he would engage in yet another contest. Once on stage, he took off his trench-coat, and you could almost read "NORMAN" stitched in gold letters across the back of it.


Mailer, a Harvard graduate, began with a joke about "Yalies", drew some hisses as well as laughter, and so initially tried to tease an unknown and threatening audience in a strange situation. He leaned forward and with a bit of difficulty rested his elbows on the podium, which apparently had been made for tall, honest, close-cropped lawyers and not for this Santa Claus-Hephaestus figure from Brooklyn. He gave his shoulders a bellicose hunch, looked out glitteringly at the audience, and declared, "What do you want me to do tonight. Is it going to be reading, or is it going to be extempore?" No answer from the pit; they didn't know what they wanted, though they did want something. He asked for a show of hands on the matter. "Extempore it is, then," he said, almost as if he were deciding "double or nothing," and, smiling, he stared at the faces that waited for him to begin. To begin speaking on "Censorship and Obscenity"? Well, maybe not, but to begin on something. He spoke now, somewhat haltingly, making some round-about jokes, one of which was about LBJ. He shook his bag of verbal tricks and came up with an uncharacteristically crippled metaphor that had to do with education and a surf board. He laughed when he realized he had actually said it. "Will someone please tell me what was wrong with that last metaphor?" he asked. This was an illuminating moment, Norman Mailer laughing at himself, fully capable of self-mockery and therefore having more both of an ability and a right to mock you than you had previously been willing to grant.


But the audience didn't laugh with Norman Mailer-it didn't understand him as he himself did-and at this point a contest began, Norman Mailer against the public, with Norman Mailer carrying the fight. "You people are pretty good at football, but you're pretty slow with your wits," he snapped. More hisses, applause, some jeers.


With that, Part I of An Evening With Norman Mailer got underway. He himself would probably call it, were he asked, Plan A. He was no longer speaking with, or to his audience, but at it and against it, and for a while at least, the audience was very much against him. He seemed to become smaller behind the podium, caught in the midst of a truly eclectic mass reaction that he himself had triggered.


For a while, the audience became a crowd, with no manners and no self-control. Norman Mailer had communicated to those he faced his own excitability, his irritability, and his impoliteness, but none of his subtle, ironic self-awareness, none of his deep, if crude, generosity and humor.


A female voice called with nervous petulance from the balcony: "What do you want from us?'' and there was a supporting boom from a number of voices seconding the question.


A student persisted in throwing wads of paper at him and was summarily invited to step up on stage. A microphone dialogue ensued, noteworthy mainly for the gusto with which Norman Mailer good-humoredly refused to take other than lightly the student's complaint about being bored. When he said to the boy "I thought I was being pretty funny," the boy answered "That's why I was bored," and the house roared.

**An Evening With Norman Mailer**
**Author:  [Not specified]**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
~ht 
t 
), . 
Jy 
es 
rt 
71 The New Journal ! December 10, 1967 
Norman Mailer claimed, "This 
gentleman has just employed the 
technique of the Big Lie," then sportingly 
allowed that the boy had won the round. 
But that didn't settle matters, for the 
matinee festivity of the occasion had by 
this time been transformed into what 
might be called a bread-and-circuses 
blood-lust on the part of the (by this 
time) mob. 

For the next twenty minutes Norman 
Mailer sparred with various voices in the 
melee: "Hey, why don't you read 
something, Mr. Mailer?" 
"So far this evening, Mr. Mailer, all 
you've done here is make an ass of 
yourself .... " 
"I disagree, and I'm on your side, Mr. 
Mailer. Come on and put down President 
Johnson!" 
At one point, somebody called, again 
from the balcony, "Come on and say 
something!" 
· 
Norman Mailer roared "FUG yoo!" 
in reply, which may have been a piece of 
splendid impromptu mockery on both 
himself and the mob. For hadn't many 
come primarily to hear Norman Mailer 
swear in public, and hadn't Norman 
Mailer, way back in 1948, scandalized 
the public at large by his daring use of 
fug (here for the first time, if you don't 
count Ulysses) in The Naked and the 
Dead? 

For a while he was like Horatio at the 
Bridge. The heckling and applauding 
continued, the audience, if you could call 
it that, completely disunited and dis-
oriented. No one knew what was 
happening, least of all, you began to feel, 
Norman Mailer. He had tried for a 
grandstand play by opting for extempore, 
and he'd missed the ball completely. The 
people before him were close to being 
entirely out of control, and as the 
situation proceeded minute after minute 
unchanged, the heroic element in it of one 
gladiator facing an enemy host vanished, 
to be replaced by the sense that what was 
happening was not merely an unfortunate 
mistake, but an unpleasant one. 

All at once, Norman Mailer seemed 
Punchy, a set-up of a kind, not noble in 
the least, but "almost, at times, the 
Fool." The clarity of the issues underlying 
the confrontation that was taking place 
had become blurred. 

All you saw was a short little man with 
a pink face and a lot of dark curly hair 
waving his arms in front of a bunch of 
people who would like nothing better 
than to see him go down-although not, 
perhaps, until he had exposed himself in 
the process. 

Re disappointed them. Suddenly, he 
cut down a questioner/heckler in mid-
sentence and announced he had decided 
to read something after all. It was much 
too long, he said, but he'd do the best he 
COuld with it, anyhow. 
Part II of An Evening With Norman 
~ailer began; Plan B went into effect. 
•. ue noise subsided as, with the delibera-
110n of a snail, he shuffled through a 
sheaf of papers he took from a slim 
attache-case of olive drab leather. The 
J)apers he hefted seemed to have the 
"eiabt of galley proofs. They lent biro an 
~~f academic seriousness, as was no 
-uot his wish. 

"Now rd like to read a selection from 
~avorite magazine," he announced. 
~thing fluttered in his hand, a single 
~of paper, and he read about a man 
91 
~rank whiskey from a tea-cup in 
asbington and who boozily spoke of 
"shit" and LBJ in the same breath, most 
disrespectfully. 

"Where's this from?" asked Norman 
Mailer, not quite willing to let his debate 
with the public evaporate completely. 
"Time magazine!" some voices called 
back to him. 

From then on, the polarities of the 
situation were appreciably reversed, and 
almost everyone, socially and dynami-
cally, was on Norman Mailer's side. If 
it's easy to disagree with Norman Mailer, 
you can't not disagree with Time. Unless 
you're Norman Mailer, that is, for what 
followed was not, really, something 
which undercut or invalidated Time's 
account of Norman Mailer's actions on 
the weekend of the Washington March, 
but rather it was a long autobiographical 
article which, while explaining his actions 
there, revealed that what Time reported 
was, after all, substantially correct, as far 
as the facts went, anyway. 

This evening at Yale, he had lost his 
audience through what seemed to be the 
poor execution of a nicely conceived 
rhetorical stance. He now proceeded to 
recapture popular support by reading 
about what life was like in front of 
another auditorium crowd, that one in 
Washington and apparently as unruly and 
unpredictable as the one he was now 
facing. 

He read about that other audience so 
quickly that at times you thought he was 
reading French-the rather Gallic rush 
of dependent clauses and then the verb, 
with uncertain inflection, like something 
falling off a table, yet giving you the 
impression, because of its uncertainty of 
tone, that it meant a lot more than met 
the ear. 

He read about being on stage in 
Washington with Dwight MacDonald, 
Robert Lowell, and Paul Goodman. He 
read about, or rather elaborated on, what 
Time had reported with such spinsterish 
grandiloquence: missing the bowl in the 
men's room qua universal male experi-
ence; his "strong arm" tactics in usurping 
the position of m.c.; his notorious (yet) 
statement that "LBJ is as full of crap as 
I am." 

What he read was all the more striking 
(vivid and exact as it was) for what had 
preceded. The care and logic of what 
could only be called art began to assert 
itself against disorder. His description of 
Lowell on the Washington stage (LoweU, 
imposing, ambivalent, repelled by the 
crowd that looked at him, feeling com-
pelled to be on its side, to read from 
Lord Weary's Castle to those about to 
face the army protecting the Pentagon) 
was what many in the Law School 
Auditorium said later was the best 
moment of the night. 

And Norman Mailer read about being 
raucously alone in front of the Washing-
ton audience, which he couldn't see but 
whose mixed reaction he could hear. And 
he read of stepping from the stage and 
noting, again with self-irony, that no 
one stood up to applaud birO. 

He read with increasing rapidity, so 
that he sometimes slurred the words he 
had written with such care and earnest-
ness. After Part II/ Plan B had been 
going on for about forty minutes, some-
one-in the balcony-yelled "Slower!" 

Genuinely worried about taking too 
much time, of losing the audience he had 
rewon. he was irked to think he might be 
doing just that. He stopped reading and 
said that those who wanted to go could 
go and those who wanted to stay could 
stay. He'd be done in ten or fifteen 
minutes. 

Perhaps fifty people, or about 5% of 
the audience, left the auditorium. When 
people sat down again, you could see a 
few empty seats like shell holes here and 
there. Genial were the faithful now that 
the bored, the disappointed, the angry, 
and the sleepy had quit the scene. 

A few minutes later, Norman Mailer 
said "Thank you" and left the podium. 
Perhaps mindful of the Washington 
crowd whom they had just heard about 
and to whom by implication they had 
been compared, many in the audience 
now stood as they clapped to Norman 
Mailer's exit. He grinned a little at this 
obvious triumph, and with trench-coat 
and attache case went out of the 
auditorium. 

What, finally, had happened? Ap-
parently, "you got two shows for the 
price of one," as a bemused young lady 
put it afterward. You'd been put down 
a Ia Lenny Bruce, and you'd been lifted 
back up again as you are by a good book 
or a good painting or, for that matter, a 
good joke. 

Where had "Censorship and 
Obscenity" come in, though? What you 
ended up with was really neither fish nor 
fowl. Or rather, it was both, a declama-
tory bouillabaisse mixed in subtle 
proportions and dished out with a 
sprezzatura all the more impressive for its 
rowdiness, once you'd thought about it. 

Nor man Mailer had first of all made 
the audience look at itself by reading 
about another audience whose actions 
had mirrored those of its own. The 
ordinary conventions of speaker-
audience relations had been broken up in 
such a way as to allow the audience to 
become, finally, the subject the speaker 
was concerned with. 

Censorship, after all, has to do with 
intolerance, which, in turn, comes from 
fear-the fear (to put it one way) that 
what you rely on is wrong, or that you're 
not who you think you are. 

People were amazed, disgusted, 
delighted, or disturbed by Norman 
Mailer in the Law School, and their 
reactions, varied as they were, reminded 
you of one thing: that censorship is bred 
as much from being caught with your 
pants down as from ignorance and 
superstition. 

Professor R.W.B. Lewis has likened 
Norman Mailer's most recent novel, 
Why Are We In Vietnam?, to "a 
rabbinical terror sermon." The talk at 
Yale was a speech as process, rather than 
product-if you will, a sermon of sorts: 
Norman Martin Mailer Luther. 

Drinking bourbon in a Law School 
lounge minutes later, Norman Mailer 
chatted with students about writing 
novels, about football, about this and 
that. He smiled a lot, mysterious, 
avuncular. He talked a lot, ebullient, 
expansive, always "gracious", however, 
especially with the ladies, the Richard 
Burton of the literary world taking off 
the grease-paint with alcohol. Finally he 
put on his trench-coat, and looking a 
little like Vic Gatto in a field-poncho, he 
departed to take a late train. The next 
day the Law School would be up in arms 
about a balcony door, which had been 
taken off its hinges by some people 
anxious for seats who had found it 
locked. The Law School said the English 
Department could never use the Law 
School Auditorium again. • 


**More Stately Mansions: Eugene O'Neill at a crossroad**
**Author: Albert Rothenberg, M.D.**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

81 The New Journal! December 10, 1967 
• 
More Stately Mansions: 
Eugene O'Neill at a crossroad 
By Albert Rothenberg, M.D. 
More Stately Mansions, currently playing 
in New York, is probably the last play of 
Eugene O'Neill that will ever have an 
American premiere. Every other play that 
he wrote has been produced, published 
and ignored, or been destroyed forever. 
Psychologically, it is somehow fitting that 
this play should appear here long after 
all major O'Neill plays have been pro-
duced. It is an unfinished work, but more 
than almost any other O'Neill play it 
reveals a pervading issue in the back-
ground of his entire dramaturgy: the 
psychological relationship between 
himself and his mother. 

Furthermore, More Stately Mansions 
was written immediately prior to the two 
O'Neill masterpieces, The Iceman 
Cometh and Long Day's Journey Into 
Night and seems to contain the raw 
material out of which those plays arose. 
Its characters speak the inner turmoil and 
the beginnings of wisdom which O'Neill 
was only able to harness into artistic 
greatness in the later plays. 

More Stately Mansions was meant to 
be the fourth play in O'Neill's cycle of 
nine plays about the history of an 
American family from revolutionary 
times to the present. This cycle was to be 
entitled, A Tale of Possessors Self-
dispossessed. More Stately Mansions was 
written during what appeared to the 
world as O'Neill's fa1low period, between 
the production of Days Without End in 
1 934 and the first production of The 
Iceman C~meth in 1946. Far from being 
truly unproductive during this period, 
O'Neill was· actively at work the entire 
time on drafts of the cycle plays and his 
five completed last plays. 

Of the nine or possibly eleven planned 
plays in the cycle, only A Touch of the 
Poet and More Stately Mansions are 
extant. In 1953, O'Neill burned at least 
six cycle plays in their scenario or rough 
draft form because he wanted no-one 
else to finish them. It is of interest that 
More Stately Mansions survived this 
literary holocaust. In their biography of 
O'Neill, the Gelbs suggest that another 
version of the play was on hand and 
presumably O'Neill overlooked or forgot 
about the surviving draft. However, 
O'Neill had always been highly scrupu-
lous and perfectionistic about his writings 
throughout his life. I don't think, there-
fore, that I would be making too much 
psychiatric hay over this circumstance 
by suggesting that O'Neill may have been 
unconsciously motivated to allow this 
play to survive. In the light of what the 
play reveals, it seems possible that he had 
some need to expose the underlying 
psychodynamics of his relationship to 
his mother. 

Another circumstance in the history of 
!his play bespeaks its psychological 
1mportance to O'Neill. As far as we 
know, he was actively working on More 
Sta!ely Mansions in February, 1939, but 
he mterrupted his work to write the 
entire The Iceman Cometh and then 
immediately turned to Long Day's 
Journey Into Night. There is a good deal 
ALBERT ROTHENBERG is an assistant 
professor of psychiatry at the Yale 
Medical School. 
of reason to believe that the story of The 
Iceman Cometh had intense personal 
importance to O'Neill. It is set in the year 
1912 and portrays an actual bar he 
frequented at that time. Many of the 
characters are composites of people 
whom he knew. Furthermore, the year 
1912 had special significance for O'Neill: 
It was the year he made a serious suicide 
attempt and was divorced from his first 
wife; it was the year he entered a 
tuberculosis sanatorium and began to 
write plays; it was a year during which 
his mother returned to her drug habit. 

In addition, elements in The Iceman 
Cometh suggest that his relationship to 
his mother may have been specifically on 
his mind when he wrote this play. The 
young man in the play, Parritt, a char-
acter who bears a good deal of 
resemblance to O'Neill in his youth, is 
depicted as having betrayed his mother 
and all the derelicts are caught up in " pipe 
dreams," a choice of term which 
strikingly conjures up the image of Ella 
O'Neill's drug addiction. 

There is, of course, no doubt that Ella's 
drug addiction was very much on 
O'Neill's mind when he wrote Long 
Day's Journey Into Night. This play was . 
also set in the year 1912 and it would 
seem that the concerns or inspirations 
which led O'Neill to interrupt the 
writing of More Stately Mansions 
continued to operate in both of the next 
two plays. 

More Stately Mansions is a family 
story. It concerns Simon and Sara 
Harford, the young couple who are 
about to marry at the end of A Touch of 
the Poet, and Simon's mother, Deborah, 
who appears briefly in that play. In More 
Stately Mansions, Simon becomes an 
immensely successful businessman and 
gets caught up in a triangle involving 
himself, Sara and Deborah. 

Strikingly, the mother Deborah is 
depicted as a woman who throughout 
Simon's life withdrew into a summer 
house where she fantasied herself as a 
king's courtesan. This is not the first time 
O'Neill portrayed a woman who is 
trapped or traps herself in a house. 
Mourning Becomes Electra and Strange 
Interlude are previous examples of this 
theme. It is the first time, however, that 
O'Neill portrayed a character whose 
behavior was so closely analagous 
to that of his own mother. Although 
Deborah is not a narcotics addict she is 
strongly reminiscent of the mother Mary 
in Long Day's Journey Into Night who 
withdraws into a special room upstairs to 
take her morphine. Actually, the O'Neill 
house in New London has a summer 
house on the grounds which is exactly 
like that described in More Stately 
Mansions and it is possible that Ella 
O'Neill herself withdrew there. 

In order to spell out the particular 
ways in which More Stately Mansions 
depicts the underlying psychological 
relationship between O'Neill and his 
mother, I would first like to review 
Edmund's relationship to his mother in 
Long Day's Journey Into Night, assuminl 
it is a naturalistic play. In other words, I 
will talk about the relationship between 
Edmund and his mother as if it were a 
real relationship between two living 
people. In doing this, I will not be violat-
ing the aesthetic context of the play since 
it is a psychological tragedy and does not 
seem to be symbolic or directed to a social 
continued on page ]0 

SKI 
MIDDLE-EARTH 
en 
AT 
. ~C A R\\\\'":) 
Guess how many 
of these pins are 
. 
contained in a jar in 
our Ski Chalet 
and Win ... 
First Prize 
These free gifts at Ski Middle-Earth 
at Sugerbush, Warren, Vermont 
Sugarbush Valley: two days of free skiing for two. 
Sugarbush Inn: dinner for two. 
The Village Edge: luncheon for two. 
Orsini's La Pasta: dinner for two. 
Healy's Place for Steaks: lunch or dinner for two. 
Blue Tooth: free admission for two over 21. 
Rogue's: apres-ski "hospitality" for two. 
Miny's Discotheque: free entry for two over 21. 
The Newspaper: free subscription for two. 
Second Prize 
hlandic sweater from the Co-op's Ski Chalet. 
Contest Rules 
In case of ties, a drawing will be held Friday, 
December 15, x967, to select the winners. 
NO PURCHASES REQUIRED. 
HURRY TO OUR SKI CHALET TODAY 
AND MAKE YOUR GUESS! 
c~•sl Closes 9 p.m. Thllf'Sday, December I4 
1V Mners lo be announced Frida-y, December I 5. 
The Yale Co-op 
77 Broadway 
New Haven 
Phone 772-2200 
Op_en 9 to 5:30 
Thursday unti/9 
111111111


Friday, December 8 
Nicholas Ray's BIHer Victory (1957) 
Richard Burton, Curd Jurgens 
"One of the most anguished statements on film." 
Confusion, ambivalence, and alienation in a 
poetic and philosophical war film that by contrast 
demonstrates the hollow verbiage of phony 
masterpieces like Guns of Navarone and Bridge 
on the River Kwai. 
Yale film 
Society 
Saturday, December 9 
Orson Welles' The Magnificent Amberson• (1942) 
Joseph CoHon, Agnes Moorehead, Tim Holt, 
Anne Baxter 
Welles uses Tarkenton's novel of a decaying 
aristocratic family to capture an entire era, the 
death of an age of innocence. One of the two 
" official masterpieces" which critics have 
conceded to this great director. 
Coming during reading period: 
lngmar Bergman's The Naked Night 
Alfred Hitchcock's Spellbound 
Orson Welles' Citizen Kane 
Jean Renoir's Boudu Saved From Drowning 
Leo McCarey's Duck Soup, (with the Marx bros) 



**Long Day's Journey Into Night and More Stately Mansions: A Comparative Analysis**
**Author: Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
10 I The New Journal! December 10, 1967 
continued from page 8 
or supernatural referent or other levels of 
meaning. 

Throughout this play, Edmund's 
relationship to his mother is highly 
complex and many different feelings are 
implied: love, pity, frustration, anger, 
guilt. With regard to his mother's addic-
tion, Edmund appears to be constantly 
struggling throughout the play to keep his 
mother from withdrawing. There is a 
tendency to blame his father's miserliness 
for his mother's condition, but at the 
end everyone, including Mary herself, 
seems helpless and partly responsible for 
the illness. 

Focusing on the ending specifically, 
however, a particular configuration of the 
mother-son relationship is suggested. 
Edmund learns he bas tuberculosis, a 
serious and terrifying physical illness 
which could lead to his death, and at the 
same time his mother withdraws into 
mental illness. In O'Neill's own life, we 
know that these two events were actually 
separated by several months. However, 
the artistic juxtaposition of them as 
occuring on the same day conveys a 
special psychological meaning. 

If these two events had actually 
occurred on the same day as represented, 
it is likely that Edmund would have been 
torn and distressed by certain specific 
feelings. He would have felt remorse and 
concern for his mother, fear and certainly 
an overwhelming helplessness for himself. 
Also, since no-one can really experience 
psychiatric illness in a parent with total 
compassion and objectivity, he would 
have felt intense anger and rage at her 
for having deserted him. 

Furthermore, contracting a serious 
illness like tuberculosis is often 
experienced ambivalently. The prospect 
of long hospitalization in a sanitarium, 
although it is distressful, can also 
represent a chance to escape from an 
unpleasant reality. Considering the 
painful family experience which is 
depicted throughout Long Day's Journey 
Into Night, it is likely that Edmund would 
have unconsciously or in dim 
consciousness wished for an excuse to 
escape, even an excuse as frightening and 
unpleasant as tuberculosis. Hospitals and 
sanitaria offer a caring environment and, 
unconsciously, often represent a nurturing 
mother for those whose real mothers 
have been uncaring and unnurturant. 

If Edmund would have experienced 
such feelings of rage and wished to 
escape, it is also likely that he would have 
felt intensely guilty about them. Indeed, 
he would have felt responsible for his 
mother's withdrawal in some way and 
felt that he himself drove her away from 
him further. The idea that he felt 
responsible for his mother's difficulties 
'becomes especially plausible in light of the 
fact that Edmund knew that Mary first 
became addicted to narcotics immediately 
following his birth. 

The implication of such tortured 


**Kingman Brewster in Television's Department of Clarification**
**Author: Daniel Yergin**
**Page number(s): 12**

12IIThe New Journal! December 10, 1967 
Kingman Brewster in 
television's department of 
clarification 
By Daniel Y ergin 

President Brewster's office phoned the 
producers of the David Susskind Show in 
New York City after Brewster's Parents 
Day Speech and offered them a package: 
Brewster, the Rev. William Sloane 
Coffin and Yale corporation member J. 
Irwin Miller, discussing the draft, civil 
disobedience, conscientious objection and 
related issues. 

The idea for the show grew out of the 
controversy surrounding the Parents Day 
Speech, in which Brewster had seemed to 
attack Coffin by criticizing "strident 
voices which urge draft resistance as a 
political tactic." As with many Brewster 
pronouncements, some thought Brewster 
had a specific target-the Rev. Coffin, 
while others weren't quite sure what 
Brewster had been saying or whom he had 
been attacking. Thus the show would be 
an effort at clarification. 

The show worked; issues and 
personalities were clarified. One came to 
some understanding of how thinks J. 
Irwin Miller, former president of the 
National Council of Churches, Esquire's 
nominee for President, the Corporation 
member supposedly closest to Brewster, 
and part of the band of enlightened 
industrialists who allow themselves doubts 
about Vietnam. 

Coffin, the minority on the 21h to llh 
line-up (host Susskind was versatile) 
outlined the tragic absurdities of 
Vietnam and made clear why resistance is 
necessary. The idea of giving "sanctuary 
for consci~nce" within a church, he said, 
"is not to shield a man but to show that 
the claims of government and the claims 
of conscience cannot be reconciled." 

Perhaps, most importantly, there 
seemed to emerge an idea of what's 
behind Brewster's pronouncements-
that is, how the man views the world. 

The show was taped in New York on 
Monday, November 27, for broadcast on 
December 10. Most of the audience of 
1 00 arrived at the television studio on 
67th Street around six o'clock in the 
evening, many of them passing the 
mangled body of a young woman who 
had just jumped to her death from a 
nearby apartment. 

Inside, host Susskind carne forward to 
sit on a stool and warm up the audience 
with a few charming comments, a few 
abrasive comments designed to get the 
audience angry enough to come to the 
microphones to ask questions during the 
program, a few pompous comments, a 
few humorous ones. 

Then the big voice of the invisible 
director came over the loudspeaker, 
ordering Susskind up on the stage so that 
the taping session could begin. 

Susskind's first question went to 
Brewster: are you worried about a 
militant and violent turn in the protest on 
your campus? 

"No, it's not militant in the violent 
sense," said Brewster, much as be had 
responded to the question, how 
widespread is student revolt, on Meet the 
Press last year with, "It's more wide-
spread than revolting." 

"Violence is disturbing," be went on to 
explain to Susskind, "but protest on the 
Yale campus has not taken a violent 
turn." 

"The amount of judgment the students 
have combined with their passion is 
magnificent," added Coffin, but he warned 
that there could very well be violence in 
the future. "1. don't say we should 
condone it," said the reverend, "but we 
should not condemn it without looking at 
what's caused it." 

The first part of the show continued in 
this vein, with Brewster warning of the 
dangers of violence begetting violence 
and of ignoring laws, while Coffin asked 
compassion for students so appalled by 
the violence in Vietnam and so frustrated 
by normal political channels that they 
turn to demonstrations. 

Miller sat quietly through this, his 
mouth slightly open, frowning, his eyes 
on the stage floor, as though he were 
about to say, "What am I hearing, my ean 
must be deceiving me, this sounds lik~ 
like treason." But Miller turned out notto 
be that way. He agreed with Brewster 
about violence begetting violence. If 
another boy slugged his son, said Miller, 
it would not in tum be proper for his son 
to slug back and then say, "He did it and 
so can 1." 

Miller is a lanky man whose high 
motivations seem to have led him into 
several quandaries about the war; and so, 
unsure which course is right, he tends to 
go along with the establishment of which 
he is a member. But only "tends." For 
instance, be believes strongly in rule of 
law, which means that be does not like 
demonstrations, but he also happens to be 
a religious man. So, when a student from 
a Long Island college asked Coffin why 
ministers and priests don't stick to the 
religion and leave the rest of life alone, 
Miller insisted on answering. He said that 
religion, if it is to mean anything, must 
deal with daily behavior and not Sunday 
School attendance. (To the student's 
question, CQffin simply replied, "I think 
that position was first taken by the 
Pharaoh to Moses.") Even more obvious 
is the conflict between Miller as moral 
and intelligent man and Miller as 
businessman. He is self-conscious about 
it. At one point, be jokingly began a 
sentence, "As a craven businessman . ... " 

The sensitivity is there, the awareness that 
profit and motive too easily function as 
one word. All a scholar has to do is worrY 
whether the things he does have any 
meaning or importance; a businessman co · 
the other band must worry whether his 
livelihood is by definition in opposition 
to his values. Miller really sounded like 
a college recruiter complaining that 
students don't want to go into business 
when he complained that college students 
don't want to get involved within the 
political system. 

Miller clearly wanted to examine the 
merits of Vietnam, and come to a 
conclusion; but so far he hasn't been able 
to. Given the choice between two 
uncomfortable outlooks, he seems to 
choose that of his friends in government 
and business, the one more naturally 
congenial to him. Thus the danger of 
student violence in this country becomes 
greater, and the importance of our 
Vietnam violence consequently 
diminishes. 

"Bill," he said at one point, drawing 
out the name in a Hoosier twang. ''you'~ 
trying to say that this bonfire over here IS 
really over here . ... " 

"No, I'm not, Irwin." said Coffin. 
"You're trying to make a bonfire out of 1 
brushfire, while I'm pointing to the real 
conflagration." 



**Brewster, Coffin, and the War in Vietnam**
**Author: Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
13 1 Tbe New Journal I December 10, 1967 
.ts 
The position Miller takes or doesn't 
take on the war is important because be is 
1eG 
a very influential industrialist. Similarly, 
it's important to understand what 
Brewster thinks not simply because he's 
pnsident of Yale but because he has 
..umed the role of spokesman for higher 
education, serves on Presidential 
commissions, and is called Dr. Brewster 
at 
D 
to 
l 
), 
by David Susskind. 

On the Susskind show Brewster relied 
much less on inflated rhetoric and spoke 
much more clearly than he has on most 
previous public occasions. He was 
uaderstandable, and you cou1d respect 
him for his convictions. He does believe 
ill conscientious objection for moral 
1a10ns, he thinks a man should not be 
fon:ed to kill if he doesn't want to kill. 
He attempted to clarify his Parents Day 
"'lrident voices" statement by saying 
lblt he did not mean Coffin, although 
Brewster discusses Coffin in the next four 
out of five paragraphs in the speech and 
.._.in the speech disagrees with Coffin's 
polition on the draft and deplores his 
penonal style. Brewster thus did not 
IUCCCed in making clear whom be did 
have in mind, if anybody, when he 
c:riticized the "strident voices." 

Brewster said that he wasn't willing to 
criticize the war unless he could take over 
the next morning at nine and offer 
alternatives. Brewster asked Coffin what 
alternatives he wou1d have at nine the 
next morning. 

Coffin mentioned a variety of 
approaches, but he would have done 
better simply to raise the problem of 
iatention; for this is a basic problem. 
Pluta and specific proposals are 
implementation; they devolve from an 
09er-all intention, not the other way 
around. For Brewster to worry about the 
lpeciftc "how's" means finally that he 
doesn't think the United States should 
aet out. Yet the war remains a confusing 
thing for him. 

The problem becomes one of 
&eneralization. The facts of the situation, 
the ugly facts, seem to say one thing; but 
JOur theory tells you something else. You 
lllalte the decision to go with the theory, 
bat you remain troubled and confused 
because reality does not fit snugly within 
the generalization. 

Brewster too views the world with 
certain basic assumptions that grate 
banhly with the reality of the war as be 
perceives it in the tolls of death, 
destruction, incredibility, and lack of 
PI'Ogress. 

He gave three reasons why he thought 
that. while draft resistance on personal 
1b0ra1 grounds was permissible, resistance 
lilould not be used for political ends-
::.. to change the policy. First, he simply 
't think it wou1d be helpfu1 in 
cla.nging the political situation. Secondly, 
he said, "it is terribly important for us not 
tiD abandon the force of persuasion for 
il iavites the forces of oppressive counter-
l'eYolution." Thirdly, he opposes it on 
llloral grounds because it's not the 
PIOduct of individual conscience. 

Coftin responded that draft resistance 
4ld DOt at this point mean rejection of 
Pll'luuion, but was rather a form of 
Jlnuasion. "We are doing it," he said, 
""-cause we care about the finest of 
~ 
traditions. which are being 
~ed." 

BreWster rejected this interpretation, 
1lbic:b finds its models in the efforts of the 
ciYil rights activists and claims that there 
"ouucl be no Dissenting Democrats nor a 
Candidate McCarthy were it not for the 
student activists. 

Towards the end of the taping, what 
•seemed to be Brewster's fundamental 
assumptions finally began to emerge. Ever 
since Johnson put Brewster onto the 
commissi<'n studying the entire selective 
service system, Brewster has spoken out 
about what be considers unfair and 
immoral aspects of the system. 

Brewster nodded his head 'in agreement 
when a student in the audience prefaced 
a question on this attitude by saying that 
the draft had almost been abolished in 
the early 1960's. Then, asked the student, 
how can you talk about the morality of 
the draft, a system that will always be 
unpleasant no matter how administered, 
and not about the morality of the war, of 
which the draft is only manifestation and 
symptom? 

Brewster explained that he thinks a 
system must be worked out because the 
United States will face a series of other 
such wars over the next several years. 

Some might choose to see this response 
as a sign of Brewster's pragmatism, that 
be's interested in reforming one evil if be 
can't reform two. 

It seems more likely, however, that this 
was a hint at Brewster's basic attitude; 
and by implication, his disagreement with 
the war finally becomes nothing more 
than disagreement with how the war is 
being conducted. He seems to accept the 
notion that the Communists (emphasizing 
the) are and will continue to foment wars 
of national liberation to extend a 
Communist hegemony. If you believe that 
and so downplay or even ignore the 
nationalistic elements, then the Com-
munists do have to be stopped and 
Vietnam is the stopping ground. 

A question disturbing many is bow the 
men who were the liberals in the late 
1940's and early 1950's can regard the 
world that way today. But it should not 
be forgotten that many of them, like 
Brewster, worked in the Marshall Plan, 
which, while a tremendously impressive 
and benign program in many ways, came 
about as a reaction to the fear of 
Communist domination extending over 
Western Europe. 

The world has changed a great deal 
since then, but the only change that seems 
to have occurred in the thinking of many 
policymakers is geographic: the capital 
of "international aggressive Communism" 
bas moved from Moscow to Peking. 

Anybody who looked at Soviet Com-
munism in 1948 as he did in 1928, when 
that country was slipping into the throes 
of industrialization and collectivization, 
would have been considered rigid in his 
thinking. Another 20 years and another 
generation have now gone past; but, 
because there have been no dramatic 
events like depression and cold war, too 
many people have permitted the old ideas 
to remain unchallenged in their minds. 

The world view apparently held by 
Brewster needs rethinking; for what the 
Susskind show finally did was clarify the 
causes of Brewster's indecision and 
cqnfusion over Vietnam: on the one hand, 
he sees that almost everything is wrong 
with our War in Vietnam; on the other, 
he accepts the basic assumptions which 
make possible the war. 

Coffin had a good point when be 
objected to people "who can't make up 
their minds about the war, but point to 
the immorality of the protestors and not 
to the immorality of the war." • 


**Yale Drama Reviews**
**Author: James Ponet and Howard Newman**
**Page number(s): 14**

continu~d from page 2 
a spiraling light which projected patterns 
on the audience during the hypnotic 
dance scene. 

But the primary ingredient for success 
was the cast. Trumbull's production 
exhibited a cast of extraordinary ability. 
Spirited and talented, they brought 
strength to the play, making every 
moment vital. The small-cast musical is 
evidently the play most suited to the 
collegiate theatrical scene. It is doubtful 
that there are many as captivating and 
enchanting as Th~ Fantasticks. 
-James Ponet 
Yale College 

The actors in the Timothy Dwight 
production of Peter Shaffer's two one-act 
plays, The Private Ear and Th~ Public 
Ey~, succeeded very well in making both 
meaningful and entertaining what are 
essentially actionless plays. 

The little action in each play consisted 
of variations of triangle situations, which 
are revealed early in the plays, thus 
removing any suspense. What is left is 
only Shaffer's subtle humor and his not so 
subtle message-how context-bound 
language and lack of common experience 
prevent people from communicating. 

To be sure, the plays are constructed 
so that either humor or message could be 
emphasized, but the TD production 
managed to handle one without slighting 
the other. The best scenes were those in 
which non-communication and non-
understanding were themseives the central 
issues. This included the silent resolution 
of Public Ey~. The directors, Peter 
Schwenger of Eye and Leonard Barkan of 
Ear, both did fine jobs. 
-Howard Newman


**Games**
**Author: Mopsy Strange Kenned!**

Games 
Ontogeny recapitulates phylogeny, as they 
say in Biology, and so it goes with 
Harvard weekend in particular, and all 
weekends in general. Everything seems to 
be building up and letting down, from 
hopeful Friday on downhill to hopeless 
Sunday afternoon, just as on all other 
weekends-only a thousand times more 
so because of the mothers and fathers 
added to the usual droves of dates. The 
streets seem to be suddenly awash with 
giggly blonde girls getting dress bags out 
of the trunks of their illegally parked 
cars, and boys' rooms are full of people 
who jus~ slog along Monday, Tuesday, 
Wednesday, and then on Saturday serve 
up that life in pithy self-mocking epithets 
at parties. But having the parents around 
makes it all quite different; for one thing 
it gets in the way of a date, having the 
four of you aU there in that traveling 
suburbia of station wagons parked in the 
field at the Bowl, with the perhaps 
mother-in-law looking you up and down. 

A girl can be made to feel extremely 
nervous by almost any act perpetrated by 
that mother of his in her purple tweed 
Darien, Conn., suit and her thermoses of 
bloody marys and coffee ( .. coffee, 
please") and her maddening way of 
climbing her son, as it were, and putting 
flags on top of him, and telling him to 
keep Saturday the 12th free. 

Which thing is she thinking behind her 
polite conversation: Call me Mother? 
She's awfully attractive, John? I hope 
you're having lots and lots of fun and 
seeing all kinds of girls? Does be want to 
know if I'm loyal enough to the old 
school? Well damn Harvard, damn Yale. 
Fab, All, Tide, Lux and Veritas-bahl It's 
terribly hard, if you only have sort of 
ad hoc loyalties, to grasp quite why 
people get so excited about it all. It's 
understandable, it's touching-to see 
these fathers and sons going down the 
streets to hear the sons crisply declaiming 
about their existence at college, as if they 
were trying to grab one frame from the 
film of their present life and say, There, 
that's typical of me, this minute, at Yale 
-and to see their fathers hardly listening, 
fumbling around for the old yellowed 
photograph that was them, dressed up in 
old-fashioned clothes, in front of a 
building that's been torn down since Yale 
'35. They seem to think they've got 
something enormous in common, and 
they are building on the idea that plus 
3a change, plus c'est la mem~ Yale, and 
oh, nothing like Harvard, etc., etc. But 
we impartial outsiders ask ourselves. 

After all, the students, the teachers, the 
very buildings are different, it's just that 
ugly little dog that's the same, compli-
ments of the continuity editor. Well, give 
it up, you probably have to just take it on 
faith like the Virgin Birth. Indeed, there 
they all are at The Game, taking it on 
faith like madmen and acting out year 
after year their serio-comic rivalry they've 
inherited along with their name and their 
nose. 

Then there are all those undergraduates 
and recent graduates to watch-especially 
them because their illusions about Yale 
are not so cold in their graves. It's funny 
to watch them being edgy and senti-
mental, half laughing at their old haunts 
and organizations--Spaghetti and Grapes, 
Bible and Belt-and half going there 
wholeheartedly. Three or four years out, 
the recent fates of the old heroes and the 
old drunks are more interesting to bear 
about than later on, because no one is 
quite sure whether whatshisname 
fulfilled his early promise and drank 
himself to death, or whether be copped 
out and joined the First Nat City Bank, 
and plenty of them are still wandering 
around in a way that would never get 
into the Alumni Magazine. "Last time I 
heard he was in some nudist colony in 
Majorca writing a nov~l." And the ones 
who come for the weekend and find each 
other still have a tendency to call what-
ever they're doing a game-the ad game, 
the poverty game, the God game-so 
no-one will think they've gotten too 
stuffy about themselves. These ones bring 
their dates for a nostalgic weekend to 
show them (don't touch) a good time, 
and how it used to be, and to take them 
to the old room which is now full of 
noisy, immature strangers. Some girls 
have an almost unbelievable capacity for 
tactful participation in other people's 
fantasies-which is what Harvard week-
end, haunting the old town, and especially 
football, are. But what is most peculiar 
especially to a girl who has long since 
slammed her mind shut on the possibility 
of ever understanding the actual rules of 
the game is to think that all of these 
people who have summoned up in their 
minds some feeling of the quiddity of 
their college then go and endow a very 
football player with it, and get satisfaction 
from having him enact a ritual put-down 
of the other colleges by proxy. It's as if 
two men with two interpreters thought 
they were having an argument, when in 
fact the two interpreters, in their own 
language, were arguing about something 
entirely different. 

People don't just watch it, they 
castigate it, wheedle it, threaten it, woo 
it, like schizophrenics holding conversa-
tions with the wall. The basic premise 
that both teams accept, namely that we 
are wonderful and that they are terrible 
(or if their team loses, how wronged they 
were) prompts them to astonishing acts 
of screaming and toilet paper throwing 
and other behavior that would be severely 
frowned upon, say, in the subway. 

Luckily you can sometimes get your 
date to ignore it part of the time, like a 
taxi radio droning on in the background 
by being, yourself, a contrapuntal taxi 
radio .... Sarah Bernhardt had her leg 
amputated, you know ... when is a door 
not a door ... I wish the toe fetishist 
would come and warm up my feet ... 
they say watching football gives you 
cancer ... though sooner or later you are 
cut off by the rising in unison multitudes, 
and inevitably you are drowned out by 
the prayers and lambastings of the man 
behind you, try as you will to stare him 
down or embarrass him with a telephoto 
lens. 

Strange to say, it doesn't seem to 
bother the dates, though, who almost to a 
girl will admit they don't know what 
those men are doing on that field, 
knuckling around in slow motion to the 
inner music of the spheres-and for the 
most part they jump and scream in a 
manner that seems very hypocritical to 
some of us who stick to our guns and 
remain seated throughout. It's the twofold 
mystery of the game itself, and the blood 
of Yale. Blood is thicker than water, and 
bloody marys, drunk on the tailgate with 
... with, well hello ... if it isn't ... you 
son of a gun .•• thicker still. 
-Mopsy Strange Kenned!'


**Seeger**
**Author: Susan Braudy**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

Seeger 
"This machine surrounds hate and 
makes it surrender," read the neat letten 
on Pete Seeger's long-necked, five-string 
banjo. You could read the words if you 
were sitting down front at his Woolsey 
Hall concert on Harvard Weekend. 

With purple light shining on his face, 
Seeger sings and preaches about the old 
songs, and also sings some he's just found 
about Americans making stands, violent 
and otherwise, against injustice through-
out our history. 

This time Seeger looks a little older 
than he did when you last saw him. 
Though he's still as long and lean as a 
farm kid, the skin on his face wrinkles 
and pouches like an old baseball glove. 
But when he begins to sing, a wonder-
ful thing happens. He sings out to the 
audience, his head high, his chin way up. 
And as the audience gathers momentum 
and sings back to him in waves, you 
notice that with his head high and back, 
the pouches and lines on his face 
disappear. 

Seeger always does things his own 
way: Even at Woolsey, you, who never 
thought you could, wind up respecting 
him for singing heck instead of hell. He 
Jives with his wife Toshi and their three 
children in a tiny log cabin on the 
Hudson, sixty miles north of New York 
City. Seeger built the cabin himself with 
a little help from his friends. He doesn't 
think twice about turning down concert 
engagements to tour Negro colleges in 
the South or play at peace fairs. 

Back in 1938, before Time magazine 
showed the hippies the way to Haight-
Asbbury and before Jack Kerouac 
dreamed of bitting the road, Pete Seeger, 
a Harvard sophomore, left Cambridge. 
In the next years, he covered thousands 
of miles, hitchhiking and riding freight 
cars, through our depression-ridden 
country. He was singing and picking up 
folk songs. 

Descended from American colonists 
who came here beca~e they were 
religious dissenters, Pete Seeger was 
learning America and her history in song. 
He took time out to serve three years 
with the Special Services during World 
War II. But he was still collecting songs-
army songs this time. 

By the late 50's Seeger was performing 
before capacity crowds at Carnegie and 
Town Halls. The folk song revival that he 
helped to create was in full swing. 

In 1955, Seeger refused to answer 
questions about his political associations 
and belief when asked by a subcommittee 
of the House Un-American Activities 
Committee. The committee was 
investigating alleged subversive influences 
in the entertainment field. 

Seeger cited his rights to freedom of 
speech and association guaranteed by the 
F"arst Amendment to the Constitution. 
The Fifth Amendment, to avoid self-
incrurunation, might have been an easier 
way out. With the Fifth he could have 
• avoided prosecution. · 

Seeger was cited for contempt of 
Congress on ten counts. A New York 
court found him guilty and sentenced him 
to one year in jail. This decision was 
reversed only a few years ago by the 
unanimous decision of the United States 
Court of Appeals. 

"I have never in my life supported or 
done anything subversive to my 
country," said Seeger at the time of his 
sentencing. "I am proud I never refused 
t~ sing for any organization because I 
diSagreed with its belief." 

To illustrate this, Seeger offered to sing 
a song in the courtroom. He was denied 
permission. 
--Susan Braudy


New Haven's Leading 'Art' Theatres 
THE LINCOLN 
Nightly From 6:30 
FROM BRITAIN 
'Privilege' 
"a stril<ing film .•• remart<able" 
-
The New Yorker 
from Pete r Watkins 
with Jean Shrimpton 
togethe r with 
Michael Crawford 
in Michael Winner's 
" THE JOKERS" 

THE CROWN 
Daily From 12:45 
FROM FRANCE 
'The Sucker' 
"A cri- caper comedy, with top French-n" 
with Bourvil 
Louis De Funes 
Ann• Magnani 
andVima Usi 
"MADE IN ITALY" 

THE LARGEST LP SELECTION IN CONNECTICUT 
~~"!!~~ 
~€'CORD . st-\Of» 
... ·. . . 
:.·· 
....... 
DISCOUNTS ON ALL RECORDS 
NEW HAYEN'S ONLY COMPLETE RECORD SHOP 
COME IN AND BROWSE FREELY 
33 BROADWAY, NEW HAVEN, CONN., 7n-6271 


**Recordings: Bach's "The Art of Fugue"**
**Author: William M. Burstein**
**Page number(s): 15**

Recordings 
1olulnn Sebastian Bach: Die Kunst der 
Fuge (The Art of Fugue), BWV 1080. 
Orchestral realization by Marcel Bitsch 
ll1td Claude Pascal. Chamber Orchestra of 
the Saar-Karl Ristenpart, conductor. 
~onesuch HB 3013 (mono), HB 73013 
•stereo). 2-record set. 

In 1749, Bach, plagued from childhood by 
'Vea.Jt eyes, underwent an operation which 
~dered him totally blind. The Art of 
"iUe was begun during this year; and in 
17~0, when Bach died teo days after being 
ltricken by apoplexy, it remained 
~~~~finished. 

8ach-composer, performer, and 
teacher-intended The Art of Fugue to be 
1 Pl'acticai textbook for those who wished 
~become proficient at fugue-writing. 
~use it was created as a pedagogical 
-YJCe-albeit a dazzling one-and Bach 
left no indication on the manuscript as 
to instrumentation, a controversy existed 
for many years as to whethP.r the composi-
tion ought to be performed at all. 

In recent years the consensus has been 
that the piece is well worth listening to; 
and musicians of all varieties of ability 
have scored it for organ, string quartet, 
two pianos, harpsichord, and full sym-
phony orchestra. 

The present version, for chamber 
orchestra of 13 instruments, sensibly at-
tempts neither to counterfeit a genuine 
Bach orchestration nor·to "improve" the 
tersely-voiced work by scoring it for 
full-sized symphony orchestra. 

Instead, the 22 pieces which comprise 
the work are scored sparingly, with differ-
ent orchestral timbres utilized to bring out 
the different voices. The result, at times, is 
eerie--the listener should be prepared to 
hear solo bassoons; and, in the final (and 
unfinished) fugue, trombones-but it 
comes off remarkably well. The orchestra-
tion is unobtrusive, and after a while one 
is aware only of the music. For a piece as 
timeless as The Art of Fugue, which is 
hampered by the stylistic cliches of no 
period but is by turns archaic and atonally 
far out, such a deference of orchestra to 
music is ideal. 

Ristenpart conducts his excellent 
orchestra sensitively, and presents the 
music with subtlety and sophistication. 
The recording is by Club Fran~ais du 
Disque, and was made in Paris. The sound 
is clean and rich; and stereo separation, 
which in many European recordings is not 
pronounced enough for American tastes, 
is good. Four pages of notes by Jason 
Farrow are of more than incidental 
interest. 

This recording of The Art of Fugue 
is strongly recommended as an indica-
tion that "budget" records (list price for 
the set is $5.00, but it is generally avail-
able for about a dollar less) are, at their 
best, as good as any. 
-William M. Burstein 


**Dow Chemical at Yale**
**Author: Jerry Bruck**

Dow 
On Tuesday, December 12, a recruiter 
for the Dow Chemical Company, which 
sells napalm to the US Government, will 
be interviewing career-seekers at Yale. 
Dow and the access it has been accorded 
to university recruiting facilities have 
been a target of anti-war activists across 
the country, and the company's campus 
recruitment campaign this year has not 
been a triumph of public relations. At the 
University of Wisconsin thousands of 
students disrupted Dow's visit and the 
Chancellor called in city police to disperse 
them, and even at Harvard students 
succeeded in trapping a recruiter in a 
room for seven hours. Dow executives 
are reported to be very worried about 
their image these days. 

It seems that Dow will receive a 
relatively quiet reception at Yale. The 
students for a Democratic Society will 
probably picket either Woodbridge Hall 
or the Career offices. As of a week before 
the I 2th, there were no plans to disrupt 
the interviews. SDS chairman Karl Klare 
is preparing a ten-minute slide show of 
Vietnamese children burned by napalm 
which he will screen at various places 
around the University before Dow 
arrives, and SDS is preparing a pamphlet 
describing the effects of napalm and 
Dow's role in providing it for the 
counter-insurgency effort. Howard 
Shrobe, 1968, has written the company 
inviting its recruiter to debate the various 
issues involved, but as yet he has 
received no reply. 

Assistant Dean of Yale College 
Donald Akenson, who is responsible 
for the career -advisory office, says that 
the University has yet to formulate a 
policy on recruitment, and that he will 
probably wait until Tuesday and see 
what happens. 
-Jerry Bruck


**Letters to the Editors**
**Author: Andrew Sims and M. L. Baily Jr.**

Letters 
To the Editors: 
The reviewer of the Jefferson Airplane 
concert (November 12) typifies the novice 
word-thought freak. The first sentence of 
his review provided a simulacrum of sense; 
the rest tapered in content to nil while it 
staggered giddily in description to a help-
lessly mawkish state of pious panegyric. 

Tentatively, in the reviewer's favor, it 
could be assumed that he is a recent-and 
thereby pardonable clumsy--convert to 
the semi-euphoric interparietal gibberish 
of psychedelic impressionism. It strikes 
me as puzzling that the Journal should find 
this puerility novel or intriguing enough to 
foist it upon its readers. 

The Airplane's performance was, com-
pared with others by them and others by 
others, one of the most turned-off me-
chanical, and sarcastic displays of what a 
big name can get away with on the provin-
cial audience at Woolsey that the per-
formance should receive a review of such 
hemophiliac adulation. 

Woolsey Hall itself is ill-suited to the 
kind of sound which the Airplane pro-
duces, but there was no compensation: 
they just poured out the prerequisite num-
ber of decibels and watts to the salivating, 
analphabetic crowd which crammed the 
hall to its gilt gunwales. From a number of 
angles in the hall, it was virtually impos-
sible to hear the vocal at all, and the 
amount of unintentional (or uncalculated) 
feedback from the amplifiers did not im-
prove even the effect. (In which case, the 
reviewer's idea of Grace Slick's voice being 
ten feet tall in a thousand foot pit is 
curiously apt.) 

The so-called light show was patent 
ineptitude. It is immaterial whether 'the 
fellow going wild with colored lights' was 
moving his hand or a paper plate to get the 
effect: it remains that there was little if any 
relation to the rhythm. 

The world of the Airplane is, for there-
viewer, a mythical realm of fast color and 
big sound. Every teeny-bopper is permitted 
a similar fantasy. It is the beauty of much 
of acid rock and the other periphery of 
the movement. But the review itself does 
an unfortunate disservice to the whole 
thing by ascribing to it a kinematic per-
fection which is dependent upon such ill-
considered impressionability. The Journal 
does worse by printing the results. 
Andrew Sims 
Graduate student, German 

Please remove my name from your 
mailing list as we are leaving New Haven. 
I do not especially regret this 
discontinuation of receiving The New 
Journal because I find the contents, 
which I have read fairly carefully for 
three issues, less a stimulating interchange 
and ftow of carefully or wittily conceived 
ideas than a torrent of thinly concealed 
left-wing polemicism. 
M. L. Baily Jr. 


**O'Neill's *More Stately Mansions***

continued /rom page 11 
else, led him to stop working and develop 
this idea into a completely new play. 

Psychologically, it is also of interest 
that the wife that Hickey kills in The 
Iceman Cometh seems very maternal, 
forgiving him all his sins and accepting 
him no matter what he does. She refuses 
to believe he won't improve much as 
Mary, in Long Day's Journey Into Night, 
refuses to believe that Edmund has more 
than a summer cold. Another connection 
between the feelings O'Neill was 
struggling with at this time of his life 
would seem to be that the killing of his 
wife inThe Iceman Cometh represents a 
displacement of the anger and rage that 
he felt towards his mother. 

At the end of The Iceman Cometh, all 
the derelicts return to their "pipe 
dreams." Many have considered this a 
tragic ending and, I suppose, many still 
do. To me, the ending conveys an 
acceptance of man's foibles and a quiet 
recognition that men must and do live 
with illusions. For O'Neill, I think this 
ending represented his coming to terms 
with his mother's illness, his mother's 
"pipe dreams." This acceptance of his 
mother's illness is, I think, poignantly 
represented in Long Day's Journey Into 
Night by the unforgettable image of Mary 
Tyrone climbing the stairs with the final 
words, "I fell in love with James Tyrone 
and was so happy for a time." 

O'Neill was at a crossroads when he 
wrote More Stately Mansions. He was 
writing a play which depicted his inner 
feelings towards his mother, feelings be 
was only able to master in the great plays 
that came after. For the reader or viewer 
of More Stately Mansions, the words and 
images of these later plays will be 
hauntingly recalled. 


Classifieds 
20¢per word 
Ads may be mailed or telephoned to: 
William M. Burstein 
544 Yale Station 
New Haven, Conn. 06520 
776-2551 
Monday-Thursday 7-8 p.m. 
For the next issue only, The New Journal 
will accept, at no cost, one classified ad 
from each member of the Yale Community. 
By mail only; deadline Jan. 5. Editing 
privileges reserved. 

UNDERGRADUATE POETS-submit your 
work to A lkahest: American College Poetry, 
the new magazine of the Wesleyan University 
Press. Entries due

**Title:  Jos£;1ili~~we ID aven**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Jos£;1ili~~we 
ID 
aven 
DIRECTED BY lam arriCk 
NOW THROUGH DEC. 23 
J 
new 
DIRECTED BY llrrJ amck 
THE YALE SCHOOL OF DRAMA 
REPERTORY THEATRE PRESENTS 
PRU~IEAI' OF 
JD-fhilifS 
DIRECTED BY larry amck 
NOW THROUGH DEC 23 
THE YALE SCHOOL OF DRAMA . 
~iilliri 
PRE~IIEREOF 
DIRECTED BY lm amck 
PREIIIIIERE OF 
DIRECTED BY lm arnca 
newaven 
DIRECTED BY llrrY amck 
PREI\o.IERE OF 
new haven 
DIRECTED BY lan-y amck 
PRE,.IIERE OF 
haven 


