Publication date: October 2002
Volume: 35
Issue number: 2

**MASTHEAD:**
- Publisher: Eric Rutlunu
- Editor-in-Chief: Daniel Kurtz-Phelan
- Managing Editors: Josh Cohn, Matthew Underwood
- Designer: David Bartlinski
- Production Manager: Flora Lichtman
- Business Manager: Michael Seibel
- Photography Editor: Santiago Mostyn
- Associate Editors: Josh Blecher, Clinton Carroll
- Associate Designer: Josh Chang
- Research Director: Kathryn Malizia
- Circulation and Subscriptions Manager: Matthew Patmon, Victoria Truscheit
- Staff: Sushma Gandhi • Helen Phillips • Patrick Casey Piru • Sophie Reuman • Benita Singh • Nadia Sussman • Ellen Thompson
-  Alumni Directors: Emily Bazelon • Joshua Civin • Peter B. Cooper • Tom Griggs • Anya Kamenetz • Brooks Kelley • Jennifer Pitu • Henry Schwab • Elizabeth Sledge • Fred Strebeigh • Thomas Strong
-  Advisors: Richard Blow • Jay Carney • Richard Conniff • Ruth Conniff • Elisha Cooper • Julia Preston • Laura Rabin • Stan Weisman • Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Stan Ballou • Anson M. Beard, Jr. • Bruce Bennett • Edward B. Bennett, Jr. • Edward B. Bennett III • Paul S. Bennett • Gerald Bruck • Gordon Bundy • Jay Carney • Daphne O'Neal • Jacob Ovin • Jonathan M. Carl • Constance Crockett • Elisha Cooper • Peter B. Cooper • Andy Cohn • Jerry and Rae Cohn • Mason Denison • Albert Fox • Howard Fox • David Freeman • Geoffrey Fried • Arturo Gandara • Sherwin Goldman • David Greenberg • Tom Griggs • Stephen Hellman • Jane Kamenetzky • Brooks Kelley • Rob Kirkwood • Andrew J. Kresinski, Jr. • Lewis E. Lehrman • Jim Lee • E. Noble Lee • Hank Marubbio • Matthew E. Neill • Peter Neill • Howard H. Newman • Sean O'Brien • Julia Peters • Lewis and Joan Platt • Jacob Plaut • Julia Preston • Laura Rabin • Faith R. Randall • Rollin Riggs • Mark Riodin • Nicholas X. Rizopoulos • Stuart Roham • Alden and Arthur Sapir • David and Debbie Seigel • Richard Studley • W. Hampton Sides • Lisa Solomon • Elizabeth and William Stowe • Thomas Soong • Elizabeth Tate • Alex and Stacey Tordella • Melinda Turner • Allen and Sarah Wardell • Daniel Yergin and Anne Stern Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**

FEATURES
12 The Long Road Home - Victoria Truscheit
18 We Built This City - Emily Lodish
22 Pinheads - Jacob Blecher
28 Organized Crime - Daniel Kurtz-Phelan

STANDARDS
4 Points of Departure
25 Shots in the Dark: Fields of Dream - Anne-Weber
34 Essay: A Formal Feeling Comes - Flora Lichtman
36 The Critical Angle: Voice of America - Kathryn Malizia
38 Endnote: True Blue - Ellen Thompson


**Title: The Long Road Home**
**Author: Victoria Truscheit**
**Page number(s): 12**

Two families face life after the shelter.


**Title: We Built This City**
**Author: Emily Lodish**
**Page number(s): 18**

Can Alexander Garvin and his team of Yale graduates rebuild Lower Manhattan as the public envisiom it?


**Title: Pinheads**
**Author: Jacob Blecher**
**Page number(s): 22**

The competition is fierce, and the beer is stale-but New Haveners aren't bowling alone.


**Title: Organized Crime**
**Author: Daniel Kurtz-Phelan**
**Page number(s): 28**

How a seemingly ineffective union demonstration turned a disparate workforce into a unified bloc.


**Title: Points of Departure**
**Author:  (Not specified)**
**Page number(s): 4**


**Title: Shots in the Dark: Fields of Dream**
**Author: Anne-Weber**
**Page number(s): 25**


**Title: Essay: A Formal Feeling Comes**
**Author: Flora Lichtman**
**Page number(s): 34**


**Title: The Critical Angle: Voice of America**
**Author: Kathryn Malizia**
**Page number(s): 36**


**Title: Endnote: True Blue**
**Author: Ellen Thompson**
**Page number(s): 38**



**Title: Appraise and Fall**
**Author: Paige Austin**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Appraise and Fall 
IT HAS STOOD through years of KISS con-
certs, third-rate minor league hockey 
matches, and the debacles of Yale basket-
ball-but for the first time ever, one day 
this fall, the main attraction at the New 
Haven Coliseum was the ill-fated Coliseum 
itself. The concrete and steel monstrosity 
was transformed into a hammed-up flea 
market, and everything, bolted down or 
not, was on sale. 

To 
visualize 
the scope of the 
Coliseum's liquidation, imagine a behe-
moth grocery store. Replace the cereal 
boxes and soda cans with the turnstiles and 
popcorn machines of a professional sports 
arena. Instead of Wonderbread, row upon 
row of industrial-sized nacho cheese mak-
ers and two ten-foot tall Zambonis Hne the 
double-wide aisles thronged with crazed 
bargain hunters. Only one man, a fast talk-
er in a suit coat, could make sense of it all: 
Welcome to a glorious junkyard auction. 

"HEY and twenty-now-twenty-now-
twenty-now-thirty-do I have thirty-now-
.thirty-now-thirty-HEY! This is a fine piece 
of equipment folks .... Ifi owned a restau-
rant I'd buy it myself!" His motorized char-
iot glided down the aisles, pausing beside 
each token of the Coliseum's bygone 
grandeur in its turn. He and his assistant 
coaxed offers from the crowd with a steady 
stream of coddling and cajoling: A 
4 
Volkswagen-sized Hobart eight-slicer-
"Come on! Everybody needs one!" 

Hands shot up and down so quickly 
that I could hardly tell who was bidding, 
much less against whom or at what stakes. 
Shouts of: "hip! Hip! HIP!" acknowledged 
the bids. Some of the hipped were local 
business owners, others had come from as 
far away as Minnesota to outfit their ice 
rinks, and still others were just hoping to 
pick up a cheap television or computer and 
turn a quick profit on eBay. It was capital-
ism, unsheathed and unadorned. 

Local business owner Robert Neubig 
saw not only hockey goals, deep fryers, cash 
registers, forklifts, and Choc-0-Jet hot 
chocolate makers, but fabulous opportuni-
ty as well. Two hours into the auction, he 
had already bought a nacho cheese dis-
penser for his 13-year old son-"He loves 
nachos!" -and a massive metal hot dog 
warmer to take to church picnics. "This is 
the ultimate wholesale," he said emphati-
cally. "Write that down: the ultimate 
wholesale." Of course, he conceded merri-
ly, it is a bit risky. The skill lies in learning 
to navigate the choppy waters between 
Treasure Island and the Bermuda Triangle. 
"Some people go to the casino. This is how 
I get my fix; this is my gambling." Even his 
wife was forewarned that with her husband 
would come his auction addiction-some-
times indulged several times a month-and 
an old dairy barn's worth of prize finds. 

As an infidel among auction-believers, 
though, I had to mention my amused skep-
ticism. Robert would have none of it. "Do 
you have a hot dog maker?" he demanded. 
I quickly double-checked my backpack 
before admitting I did not. "Do you know 
anyone who has a hot dog maker? Well, 
now I have one. So I have the opportunity 
to help out." 

Auctions, Robert reflected, are a way 
of life. But not everyone checking out the 
siding on industrial strength cookware was 
so philosophical. Jim and Laurie Burwell of 
West Haven stopped by to see how they 
could .better outfit their Little League con-
cession business. Pumping cheese onto 
nachos by hand and keeping coffee water 
hot in a crock pot can get to you after a 
while. "This will definitely be easier." 

Easier, said the owners of the Connecticut 
Sports Complex in North Branford, if any 
of your new equipment actually functions 
once you get it home. "People don't realize 
a lot of this stuff is useless. It's really taken 
a beating." 

The silver-tongued auctioneer taking 
bids on whole sections of stadium seats 
could overlook such minor derails, howev-
er. The company charged with extracting a 
fmal profit &om the Coliseum would slap a 
tag on anything in the building that was 
worth hauling out, and much that wasn't. 

It was a strange scene, to say the 
least-which might explain why, as a first-
time security guard named Max observed 
in annoyance, "Everyone's got to touch 
everything." The day after the auction, one 
man was indignant upon discovering that 
the dolleys he had bought were being used 
by other buyers to gather up their own new 
treasures. Another proud purchaser gave a 
dry snort of amusement when reminded 
that he had purchased only the paper 
advertising the Sports Haven athletic goods 
store. Someone else had dibs on the frame 
and glass. Both the Zambonis had sold 
without incident, one for $6ooo. All four 
scoreboards went, as well as the floodlights 
on the ceiling and the illuminated 
THE NEW JouRNAL 


Coliseum advertisement visible from the 
freeway. 

Who made off with that thing, and for 
what purpose? The Thomas Auction 
Company does not name names, but one 
official offered this reassurance: "For the 
guy who bought it, it was a good price." 

So it went at the auction, where nacho 
cheese makers fetched $85 and the city, like 
its landmarks, was deconstructed but not 
destroyed, its refuse given a new lease on 
life. 

The inevitable nostalgia did not last 
long. Even a 13-year veteran Coliseum 
employee refused to lament the building's 
passing. "I try in life to cry as little as pos-
sible," he said, directing newcomers to the 
back offices and equipment rooms where 
their new possessions awaited them. 
"Everything's got to end sometime." And 
the cycle, as always, begins anew: The man 
who paid $6ooo for the Zamboni has 
already offered its old driver a job at his 
rink. 


**Title: Peculiar Institutions**
**Author: Ana Mufioz**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

Peculiar Institutions 
THE MAN SITriNG NEXT TO ME pushes his 
rimless glasses farther up his sunburnt 
nose, his graying blond hair flipped across 
his head. Under a navy cardigan, his 
starched t-shirc is emblazoned with the 
words "REPARATIONS Now!" He is one of 
about a hundred attendees of the "Yale, 
New Haven, and American Slavery 
Conference." Co-sponsored by the Yale 
Law School and the Gilder Lehrman 
Center for the Study of Slavery, Resistance, 
and Abolition, the conference brought 
together top scholars from September 26TH 
to the 28TH to explore how slavery "shaped 
local experience in New Haven," and to 
"examine ... the contemporary implications 
of the history we in New Haven and at Yale 
have inherited." 

This topic .echoes the title of last sum-
mer's controversial report on Yale's connec-
tions to the institution of slavery: "Yale, 
Slavery, and Abolition." Authored with the 
OcrosER 2002 
support of Yale's labor unions by doctoral 
students Antony Dugdale, JJ Fueser, and J. 
Celso de Castro Alves, the report sparked a 
furor of national media attention. It point-
ed out that initial funds for Yale's first 
scholarship and endowed professorship 
came from slave-trade money and that 
seven of Yale's twelve residential colleges are 
named for slave owners-including former 
Vice Presidem John C. Calhoun, who con-
sidered the phrase "all men are created 
equal" to be "utterly untrue." The authors 
called upon Yale to use the occasion of its 
300TH anniversary to revise its public repu-
tation as an institution with a "long histo-
ry of activism in the face of slavery," as pur-
ported in its brochures. The authors urged 
Yale to acknowledge its connection to slav-
ery-and, most importantly, to consider 
paying reparations to descendants of slaves. 

Robert Forbes, Associate Director of 
the Gilder Lehrman Center, described 
Dugdale, Fueser, and Celso's paper as "not 
a sophisticated piece of scholarship," but 
conceded that their "work is an excellent 
launching pad." Organizers repeatedly 
acknowledged that the graduate students' 
findings triggered the initiative for the con-
ference. "Without provocation this confer-
ence would not have been conceived and 
we owe a debt to that paper," said Yale Law 
School Dean Anthony K.ronman. Forbes 
stated the connection more explicitly. After 
the publication of the report, trumpeted by 
blaring headlines in The New York Times, 
Forbes received a call from Yale President 
Richard Levin's office. "They weren't inter-
ested in a quickie response," said Forbes, 
but instead a "serious scholarly conference 
that engaged the specific questions of the 
report" and "obligations of institutions 
. 
» 
across orne. 

Though conference coordinators felt 
indebted to the graduate students for, as 
President Levin put it, "bringing ~ational 
attention to something we often ignore," 
they did not include them in the planning 
process. "My invitation to the conference 
arrived in the mail two days after the dead-
line for registration had passed. This was 
the first time either Antony, Celso, and I 
were contacted by conference organizers," 
Fueser told me. 

Despite the political demands of the 
grad students'. report, the conference was 
conceived as a dispassionate, scholarly 
examination of a complicated history. In 
his opening remarks, Dean K.ronman 
defined the conference as "an academic 
evem [that] belongs to the world of schol-
arship not the world of politics." David 
Davis, Director of the Gilder Lehrman 
Center, asserted that this was "a scholarly 
conference that is in no way meant as a 
reply to [the graduate students'] paper." 

The conference certainly succeeded in 
bringing star scholars to Yale to evince the 
hard history of slavery in the North, and to 
discuss the philosophical hurdles of mone-
tary compensation for pa$t wrongs. David 
Blight, an award-winning historian who 
will join the Yale faculty next January, 
delivered the keynote address in which he 
probed the difference between history and 
memory. The panel charged with examin-
ing "The Moral Claims of the Past: Justice 
Across Time" included Princeton Professor 
Anthony Appiah and former Solicitor 
General Charles Fried. Fried expounded on 
the problems of "attenuation" and "calcu-
lating the half-life of injury" in relation to 
slavery reparation claims. He asserted that 
all that was due was an "inquiry into the 
uuth ... that above all is what is owed and 
that is a debt this conference is paying." 

Several attendees did not concur, and 
criticized the conference for being overly 
scholastic. Warren Kimbro, who runs a 
half-way house in New Haven, knocked 
the conference as "just another academic 
exercise," another instance of "white liber-
als leading us down the road of reparations. 
. . . I'd like to see Yale do a conference on 
why there's a generation of young black 
men in prison." Reverend Eric Smith of the 
New Haven Reparations Coalition reiterat-
ed Kimbro's worry tha~ the conference, and 
Yale's stand on reparaci~ns, was merely aca-
demic. "Generations of school children will 
learn about the Yale, Slavery and Abolition 
report and about this conference," he said. 
"If nothing gets done they are going to ask 
5 

why and you can't help bur wonder how 
they will feel about this conference, Yale ... 
and· about their world." 

Blight opened his speech with a refer-
ence to Gabriel Garcia Marquez's One 
Hundred Years of Solitude, describing 
Marquez's portrait of a world without 
memory as one where "people lost their 
identity in the anarchy of ignorance." But 
perhaps knowledge roo can create a kind of 
anarchy, one in which a muddle of phrases 
like "notions of memory" and "the half-life 
of injury" distract institutions from their 
practical responsibilities.


**Title: Anal Attentive**
**Author: [Author not specified]**
**Page number(s): 6**

Anal Attentive 
IT's A GOOD THING CoNNEcriCUT has at 
least one candidate in November's congres-
sional election with the answers to one of 
the 21ST century's most pressing crises. A 
global disaster like the AIDS epidemic calls 
for an informed and clear-sighted leader 
like Joseph A. Zdonczyk, who hopes to 
represent the Concerned Citizens Party in 
the coming election. 

Zdonczyk doesn't resort to quick-fix 
solutions to the epidemic like promoting 
safer sex ("You can ask anybody. It adds to 
the spread of the HIV virus.") or increasing 
funding for AIDS research ("Let's consider 
how much money is being spent on devel-
oping a cure for Hrv compared to the real 
killers.") And as for those "concoctions" 
scientists keep testing? It's simpler than 
that. 

Unlike any scientist ro date, rhe 
Concerned Citizen knows the single for-
mula that "stops mv in its tracks." The key, 
he recognizes, is simply "to remain true to 
your state of life." And remaining true to 
your state of life means heterosexual activi-
ties only, no "extracurriculars." Because, 
the aspiring public official explained, "All 
the stuff I've read leads me to believe; look, 
if you're doing something abnormal, you 
have to expect consequences." 

Though Zdonczyk is the first to admit 
that he's not a scientist, his position is 
strongly supported by a few of his own sci-
entific theories. "Your human anatomy is 
made to function in a certain way," he 
explained carefully. "You can't twist your 
arms in the back of you without breaking 
your arms. You can't stick a thumb in your 
6 
eye without going blind. When a penis is 
inserted in a man's anus, thar is a total ... I 
don't even know how to describe it ... it is 
so abnormal." 

Strangely, this logic is often shunned 
by scientists, who manage time and rime 
again to overlook the simple facts. For 
example, even Alvin Novick, a professor of 
biology and public health ar Yale-also, 
incidentally, a physician, a scientist, a past 
editor of the AJDS and Public Policy 
]ourna4 a co-founder of many AIDS pro-
grams in New Haven, and a consultant co 
organizations like the Centers for Disease 
Control-fails to grasp the finer points of 
Joseph A. Zdonczyk 
Zdonczyk's theory. Scientists like Novick 
go so far as to insist that "disrespect" for 
homosexuals spreads the scourge like wild-
fire. Anne Williams, a nurse practitioner 
who works with AIDS patients in New 
Haven, subscribes to this same fiction. 
"The stigma," she claimed, "still keeps peo-
ple from care or sends people to care that's 
not cutting-edge." 

But facts are facts. And the intolerance 
for immorality that Novick and Williams 
call stigma is for Zdonczyk nothing more 
than good, old-fashioned virtue. Afrer all, 
Zdonczyk's theories are backed by histori-
cal evidence as well as Sunday School 
teachings. According to Zdonczyk, the first 
cases of AIDS occurred in gay men. "It was 
originally in the homosexual community. 
Now it's in the heterosexual community," 
he explained. "It wasn't there and now it is. 
What kind of conclusion can you draw?" 

Of course, Zdonczyk concedes, we 
really don't have enough information to 
make a definitive link. "You'd have to have 
someone with medical research experience 
conducting tests," he acknowledges. But 
let's be honest with ourselves. Is that really 
necessary? "Sometimes," Zdonczyk says, 
"you can look at circumstantial evidence 
and draw a conclusion." Zdonczyk didn't 
draw that conclusion without reading 
between the lines of the history books. "Do 
you know what they used to call AIDS?" he 
asks. 

"GRIDS: 
Gay-related 
Immune 
Deficiency Syndrome." Why the name 
change? The little-known explanation lies 
in the subversive influence of the gay pop-
ulation. "The homosexuals must have put 
pressure on the physicians and medical 
community so that the name was changed 
to AIDS." Since it's common knowledge 
that "the homosexual community is very, 
very politically and monetarily powerful," 
it's a wonder the scientists don't see it. Afrer 
all, Zdonczyk points our, homosexuals 
"don't have families to raise, expenses that 
married people have." 

But for some reason, Novick and oth-
ers who claim expertise in the field reduce 
AIDS to a "medical and public health prob-
lem," and refuse to acknowledge that the 
cure for AIDS lies in assigning blame. 

Novick isn't even satisfied with the enor-
mous funds the epidemic has already 
sapped from more serious projects--even 
in Connecticut, where he claims AIDS pro-
grams are among the world's best. "The 
best isn't good enough," he said. Evidently 
nor-not for the selfish, that is. 

Zdonczyk's perspective on this issue is 
broad-minded and compassionate, and at 
that, a welcome deparnue from common 
misconceptions. Zdonczyk sees this fund-
ing for what it really is: a "serious injustice" 
that can kill innocent people. 

By enabling those who contracted HIV 
to succumb to their "appetites," he 
laments, "you are actually contributing to 
the deaths of many who are victims of can-
cer." And victims of cancer, Zdonczyk 
points out, are not the only ones to suffer 
at the expense of the gay community. 
"Now," he said sadly, "we see AIDS spread 
about the world and millions have died and 
probably millions will die." What's more, 
"the homosexual community is using those 
other people as an excuse to demand addi-
tional funding." As if medical funding 
weren't enough, Novick and his colleagues 
also fight for education programs, to pre-
vent AIDS by teaching "safer sex." Zdonczyk 



**Title: Concerned Citizen**
**Author: Erica Franklin**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
sees the danger in this scheme as well. That 
sense of "Hey, you're gonna be safe," that 
green light to engage in homosexual activi-
ty, Zdonczyk explains, shows us why such 
•hackneyed, trite" solutions are actually 
contributing to the spread of the AIDS 
virus. 

Let's take Zdonczyk's lead and stop 
pretending. "If we only look at the situa-
tion and be honest with ourselves, we know 
what the causes are and we know what the 
remedies are." T hat's the kind of fresh 
insight we need in Congress. We need a 
Concerned 
Citizen. 
It's 
high 
time 
Connecticut has a leader who recognizes 
the remarkable simplicity of this global cri-
sis once and for all. 


**Title: The Feminine Critique**
**Author: Sophie Raseman**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

WHEN SH E TAKES THE FLOOR in the elegant 
atrium of Beinecke Library, Yale Provost 
Alison Richard reminds us of a recent past 
that nonetheless feels as ancient as the 
library's volumes. "When I came to Yale in 
1972," she begins, "there were six tenured 
women faculty. Now every year there are 
more and more women. But I am not 
going to spout statistics at you." 

She does not need to. Tonight's audi-
ence speaks for itself. Almost a hundred 
women have come together under the aus-
pices of the Women's Faculty Forum (WFF) 
to welcome new women faculty and 
administrators and to recognize women 
who have recently received tenure. These 
newcomers are now part of a community of 
L48 female faculty members, nearly twice 
the number of ten years ago. 

The Forum came into existence dur-
ing preparations for the Tercentennial last 
year. Professors, thinking it would be a 
temporary group, planned a series of events 
to chronicle the effects of coeducation at 
Yale and the growth of scholarship related 
to women since the 1970s. But despite the 
prevailing optimism of the series, the 
women involved also became more acutely 
aware of how many problems remained. In 
the wake of their success, the group secured 
a charter extending its existence for three 
more years, resolving to make sure that the 
University kept increasing diversity and 
that scholars kept addressing women's 
issues. 

0cro&ER 2002 

The group got to work identifying 
what needed to change in order for more 
women to get tenure. After looking into 
the question, they decided that their top 
priorities were childcare and parental leave 
policy. Elizabeth Dillon, Assistant Professor 
of English and American Studies, spear-
heads the WFP investigation into parenting 
faculty needs. "T he biggest issue is that 
people can't find childcare and they cannot 
afford it," says Dillon. "To get a place in a 
· Yale-affuiated child care center, Assistant 
Professor of English Amy Hungerford had 
to start paying a thousand dollars a month 
to secure a place. T his was before her kid 
was even born!" Coming to Yale with two 
young daughters, Dillon found herself 
spending two thirds of her salary on child-
care alone. "The problem is that by and 
large these people are junior faculty mem-
bers. At the time that you are trying to real-
ly struggle to get tenure is also the time that 
you are struggling to care for your chil-
dren." Not just policy, but attitudes need to 
change. In the eyes of some colleagues, 
Dillon explains, "there is a way in which 
you become body and not mind when you 
are pregnant." Strategies that women have 
developed to cope with these obstacles can 
have unforeseen consequences. "(Some 
junior professors] are putting it off until 
they get tenured, and then often times they 
are no longer able to have kids," she 
laments. "The shape of the academic career 
is based on an old model, that of a male 
head of household and a wife," Dillon says. 
"The entire society needs to think through 
a new model of family life and work life." · 

By and large, however, Dillon is less 
worried for women in the humanities than 
for those in the still overwhelmingly male 
disciplines like math and science. Megan 
Urry, Professor of Physics & Astrophysics 
and the Director of the Yale Center for 
Astronomy and Astrophysics, agrees that 
women in the sciences face more problems 
balancing career and family. "Younger 
women are coming to me worried that they 
have to c:hoose between being a mother and 
having a career," she says. She identifies 
with some of their fears. "When I got preg-
nant, I was afraid to tell people. I thought 
they would write me off." 

The WFP aims to eliminate these obsta-
cles for future generations of female facul-
ty. In the coming year, they will continue 
sponsoring events and programs and


**Title: Old Man River**
**Author: Yusuf Samara**
**Page number(s): 8**

SPORTING A FADED BLUE SWEATER, worn 
jeans, and scuffed white tennis shoes, Pecer 
Davis could almost pass for the average 
New Havener. That is, until I spot the half-
filled eight-gallon oil can in his hand, its 
contents clearly visible through che plastic. 
His brow furrowing, he cells me, "I just 
city life. These days he ceaselessly patrols 
the screecs and riverbanks for illegal dump-
ing. He claims to have collected 14 million 
pounds of debris over the past 16 years. 

Davis's newest nemesis is a particular-
ly nasty post-industrial eyesore on the 
Quinnipiac riverfront: che Lloyd Terminal 
Company in Fair Haven. "Don't get me 
wrong," Davis says of the company's oper-
ations, "''m not against the principle of 
scrap metal recycling in general. But I am 
against what hurts our wildlife and our 
community." Davis claims chat tO save 
money and escape financial trouble, Lloyd 
Terminal has piled its barges so high that 
debris falls off in co che river. This flotsam is 
more than just the standard fare of rotten 
shoes and discarded milk cartons that litter 
any urban river: Davis has found needles, 
wheels, half-filled oil cartons, car axles, 
traces of asbestos, and an entire piano. 

With rain and high tides, che waste spills 
An overflowing barge on the Quinnipiac River 
picked this up ceo minutes ago on Chapel. 
Sometimes I just don't understand people." 

Originally from the Hill neighborhood, 
Peter Davis has long deale with the envi-
ronmental dilemmas that plague industrial 
cities like New Haven. 16 years ago, how-
ever, Davis decided that he and his home-
town had taken enough of a beating. The 
result has been what friends and foes alike 
term a "one-man crusade" against environ-
mental injustice--and environmental apa-
thy. A major breakthrough carne in 1994, 
when he established Canoe New Haven, a 
youth program intended to provide the 
children of some of New Haven's poorest 
neighborhoods with a scenic escape from 


into the river and spreads. 

Davis gestures anxiously at a photo-
graph of a boy splashing in the Quinnipiac 
with his dog. "There are people who fish in 
this river, who make their living from it. 
And despite the water warnings, people 
will swim in the water-like chis kid. Eight 
gallons of oil pollutes roughly 1000 gallons 
of water. And I've found thousands of dis-
carded oil cartons on these streets and river 
banks." Davis considers Lloyd Terminal's 
repeated violations of metal crushing regu-
lations co be dangerous not only environ-
mentally but symbolically as well. He 
attributes the recent rise in local illegal 
dumping pardy co Lloyd Terminal's setting 
a bad example. H e laments, "Once these 
companies get a government permit, they 
do anything they want, and the people start 
to chink they can do che same thing." 

Thanks in large part to his efforts, 
however, 
the 
Department 
of 
Environmental Protection (DEP) has fined 
Lloyd Terminal repeatedly. In May of 2002, 
the state ruled that Lloyd Terminal could 
continue to transfer irs remaining scrap, 
but suspended indefinitely the company's 
right to crush additional scrap metal. 

According to Davis, however, the issue 
remains unresolved, and Lloyd Terminal 
has continued its metal crushing operations 
despite the impositions of the DEP and the 
local police. As we drive to the site in his 
pickup, Davis tells me that he has received 
a call from a local fisherman, his "eyes and 
ears," telling him that the Lloyd Terminal 
machines have been pounding metal all 
day. As we pull up to the site, a bright yel-
low scrap metal machine is squatting in the 
middle of a towering mound of refuse. Less 
than 30 feet downstream is a fisherman 
playing his trade. Workers from the Lloyd 
Terminal site begin eyeing us, and Davis-
who's already slapped the owner of Lloyd 
Terminal with two lawsuits for personally 
threatening him--decides it's time to go. 

As the smokestacks and rust of indus-
trial Fair Haven blur by us, Davis points 
out the pristine oudine of East Rock to our 
right. "The contrast is unmistakable," he 
says. "The people of Fair Haven want 
what's over there over here." What Davis 
has in mind is a confluence of New Haven 
communities through the "natural green-
ways and natural blessings" of New Haven: 
the Mill River, the West River, and the 
Quinnipiac. When I ask him about . the 
reality of his vision in light of his tussle 
with the Lloyd Terminal Company, his 
weatherbeaten face twists into a wry smile. 
He assures me that the gradual return of 
wildlife to the area is a sign that his efforts 
have not been fruidess. He also praises the 
efforts of Mayor DeStefano, who "has seen 
the vision" and is now fully behind Davis' 
efforts to battle Lloyd Terminal. "I'll never 
give in," Davis asserts. "My sons would 
never forgive me. They expect me to come 
back covered in mud." 


**Title: It Takes Two**
**Author: Helen Phillips**
**Page number(s): 9**

ON A BRIGHT SATURDAY AFTERNOON, I find 
my way to the Educational Center for the 
Arts and stand in the doorway ready co 
watch the free tango session offered as a 
part of its quiet reopening celebration. 

Several people mill around, but no one 
makes eye contact. The only person in the 
room, a man with two large tufts of beard 
growing down from either side of his chin, 
notices the awkward crowd and walks 
toward che door. He claps his hands and 
smiles. 

"Come 
into 
ballroom. 
Welcome. I am Willie." We all smile shyly 
and step in. I wouldn't call this a "ball-
room," but I'm glad Willie does. The after-
noon light casts pink and yellow rectangles 
on the black dance floor through arc-deco 
stained glass windows. There is something 
hushed about the room, the students, the 
pre-class atmosphere. Then Willie pushes a 
button and lush tango music fills the cav-
ernous room. 

"Lee's start," Willie says, surveying us. 
"Can everyone please find a parmer?" The 
pre-class eye aversion is no longer accept-
able. To my lefr is a pot-bellied man in his 
thirties who, with his baseball shire and 
torn jeans, would look infinitely more at 
home in a sports bar. The man to my right 
is young and well above six feet tall. His 
gende smile surprises me as he offers me his 
arm. 

WJlie instructs us to walk with our 
partners in beat to the music. I would have 
to crane my neck to make eye contact with 
my partner, so instead I stare ac his torso. 
He smells slighdy of sweat, but for some 
reason it doesn't bother me. Perhaps it's 
something about the small cimid steps he 
takes, and the frequency with which he 
clips my toes. Then Willie calls ouc that we 
muse switch partners. 

Now I find myself next to a chubby 
litde boy wearing an over-sized collared c-
shirt with a large stain in the middle. He 
won't make eye contact with me. "What's 
your name?" I ask, smiling. He mumbles 
his name; I still have no idea what ic is. 
"I'll lead, okay?" The boy nods. The 
music starts up again. I notice that my 
young partner has begun co stare at me in 
dumb &scination as he shuffies rhythrrJess-
ly along the dance floor. Feeling slighdy 
awkward, I decide to make conversation 
with him in order ro break his penetrating 
OcroBER 2002. 

stare. My attempts are met with monosyl-
labic answers, and I stop trying. The stare 
continues. I get used co it, and even scare to 
find it charming. 

My partner for the double-time exer-
cise is Susan, Willy's assistant. She wears a 
red dress with large purple Hawaiian flow-
ers and smiles at me without showing her 
teeth. She is straight-spined and tense-
limbed. I like dancing with her; she is very 
certain abouc each seep. I glance toward the 
door and notice a small crowd hovering 
there, watching us. I sense that all the other 
tango students feel the same smugness I 
do--no hovering in the doorway for us. 
We're on che dance floor. 

And stay we do, through all of the for-
ward and backward and double time exer-
cises. Suddenly ic's the last dance, and I'm 
back with my firsc partner. The music starts 
up again. AH of the couples move counter-
clockwise. Halfway through the song I can 
feel that the cwo of us have found the 
rhythm. He's noc taking those ciny steps 
anymore. We are together, striding in 
rhythm. After a moment we lose the beat, 
and he seeps on my roes. 

When the song ends, everyone stands 
in a circle, looking openly at one another. 
Willy thanks us, claps his hands, and dis-
misses the one and only free afternoon 
tango class. I consider sticking around and 
talking to my fellow students, but some-
how I can't bring myself to stay. Walking 
quickly down the staircase, I realize that it's 
because I want them tO remain exacdy 
what they have been for the past hour: 
strangers who are willing to spend a bright 
Saturday afrernoon learning how to look 
other strangers straight in the eye. 


**Title: Blunder Bus**
**Author:  (Author not specified)**

"I'VE NEVER BEEN ON A BUS 
BEFORE!" said the red-haired 
toddler seated across from me. 
He got up and sat down again 
on the wooden bench in excite-
ment. "It's your first trolley 
ride," corrected his companion, 
a srout black woman. She 
dabbed her forehead with a 
handkerchief. But the toddler 
was right. Though the machine 
has the name and visage of a trolley, com-
plete with red and green old-time shell and 
clanging bell, its heart is an electric hybrid 
bus, built especially for the New Haven 
Trolley Line by the EBus Corporation of 
California. 

Mayor John DeStefano Jr. opened the 
Trolley Line this summer to surreal fanfare. 
At the opening ceremony, DeStefano 
announced, "The charge is not ten dollars, 
its not five dollars , its not even one dollar. 
It's ... " At this point he opened his arms to 
a crowd of city, business, and arts commu-
nity officials. O n cue, they all yelled, 
"Free!" 

Well, not quite. This year's great white 
elephant was funded by $2.50,000 from the 
Transportation and Community Systems 
Preservation Pilot Program, $x,ooo,ooo 
from 
Federal 
Transportation 
Administration Bus Program, and approxi-
mately $2.50,000 from the New Haven 
community, including the Greater New 
Haven Clean Cities Coalition. And when 
the federal money for the "preserved trol-
leys" begins to run dry, New Haven will 
have to turn to the trolley's passengers to 
foot the bill. 

The boy, his guardian, the conductor, 
and I were the orJy passengers on the trol-
ley that Saturday afrernoon. We were on 
the financial leg of the trolley's route, a 
loop that demarcates downtown New 
Haven: up Whimey to Orange and State, 
up Chapel, then down York, Elm, and back 
to Whitney. 

"Those buildings have lots of squares!" 
The boy pointed over my shoulder at the 
banks on Whitney. "Oh, yes. Buildings do 
have lots of squares," replied the old lady 
dreamily. "I am so glad we took this trolley. 
We're so tired and it'll take us home. A free 



**Title: A Day on the New Haven Trolley**
**Author: Christopher Heaney**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
juo.......! m......,. bohond T""""" 0..W. Colqjo
ride back to Grandpa's house. Oh, this is a 
lifesaver." The trolley let the old lady and 
her grandson out at the corner of Audobon 
and O range. "This was fun. Say goodbye to 
the trolley man," she said as she stepped 
off. The boy stood on the corner and waved 
to the conductor, who rung the trolley's 
bell three times in response. "That's a loud 
one, huh?" he asked the little boy paternal-
ly, before closing the doors and continuing 
down Orange. 

I slid up front and struck up a conver-
sation with the conductor. Frank was 
happy to talk and, in a slow drawl, began to 
tell me about life on the trolley. We turned 
left back onto Elm, right on State Sueet, 
and left on Chapel. We passed six trolley 
stops without another rider. I asked Frank 
how many people he sees on a typical day. 
"Usually in eight hours on a Saturday you 
do 6o to a hundred people," he told me. 
"Which is not a lot. You get a lot of kids 
with their grandparents, with mothers and 
fathers. They're the biggest riders." T he 
trolley is currently free, but Frank expects 
that when the weather changes, more peo-
ple will start riding, and he will have to ask 
passengers tO deposit their quarters in the 
fare canister by the door. 

The trolley pulled up to the corner of 
College and Chapel. Another elderly 
woman and her ten-year-old granddaugh-
ter got on. They sat across from me and I 
asked them why they were riding. "Oh, for 
sightseeing," answered the grandmother. 
The granddaughter told me she's never rid-
den a trolley before. (Well, she still hasn't.) 

After rounding York and Elm, we stopped 
at the corner of Elm and Temple. On the 
curb, a portly man with a thick black 
moustache smiled, reached in the air and 
pumped his arm, the universal gesture for 
'pull the bell, buddy.' Frank stepped on the 
bell pedal. Ding-dong. The portly man and 
the rest of the crowd at the bus stop 
cheered and got onto their bus. 

The bus blew past us towards North 
Haven, emitting diesel fumes from its tail 
pipe. I wondered what that $1.5 million 
might have done had it been put towards 
cleaning up the real mass transportation of 
New Haven. 

Like the trolleys themselves, the dream 
behind the trolley was hybrid: an anempt 
to marry cooked-up memories of New 
Haven's booming past with a muddled 
future of economic renewal and environ-
mentally-friendly technology. It's sweet and 
benign, but its nostalgia is no more than 
novelty, and its green goals stretch only as 
far as its route around an apathetic Yale 
campus and a gentrified downtown. 

"How long we riding this?" the grand-
daughter asked her grandmother, as she 
curled up in the crook of her heavy arm. 
"Till we get back to where we got on." The 
granddaughter pulled on her grandmoth-
er's arm. "Please can we stay on here till 
four o'clock?" The trolley pulled back up to 
their stop on the New Haven Green and 
the grandmother got up and walked to the 
opening door. "I don't wanna go, I don't 
wanna!" the granddaughter called out mis-
chievously. The grandmother glanced back 
and stepped out the door. "Come on," she 
said. The girl bounced on the seat two 
more times, popped up and scampered out 
the door. "Thank you, thank you!" she 
called out to Frank, who smiled and waved. 

I was once again alone with Frank. As 
we rounded Chapel onto York, Frank asked 
me how many times I planned on riding 
the trolley. A little taken aback, I replied 
that I'd be getting off soon. 

"It's okay," he said apologetically. 
"We're only allowed to go around with 
somebody once. I didn't know either. I 
went with some old guy for seven trips the 
other day. It was raining, and I don't think 
he had anywhere to go. My supervisor met 
me at a stop and he says, 'Forgot to tell you, 
but people can only ride once.' It being free 
and all." 

I got off at the corner of York and Elm. 
Frartk rang the bell and floated away alone. 
-Christopher Heaney


**Title: Yale Engineering Sesquicentennial and Tetelman Lecture; The Master's Tea**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 11**

OCTOBER 2002 
The Master of Jonathan Edwards College 
and the Dean of Engineering 
Invite you to attend the Yale Engineering 
Sesquicentennial and Tetelman Lecture 
Synthetic Gene Delivery Systems 
4 pm Wednesday, October 16, 2002 
Davies Auditorium 
1 5 Prospect Street 
The Master's Tea 
A Conversation with Mark Davis 
4 pm Thursday, October 17, 2002 
JE Master's House, 70 High Street 
Self-Assembly in the Synthesis of Pourous Materials 
4 pm Friday, October 18, 2002 
160 Sterling Chemistry Laboratory 
225 Prospect Street 
coffee and tea at 3:30 pm 
Mark E. Davis 
Mark Davis is Warren and Katharine Schlinger Professor of Chemical Engineering 
and Executive Officer of the Department of Chemical Engineering, California 
Institute of Technology. Both his undergraduate and graduate degrees are in 
chemical engineering and from the University of Kentucky where he was award-
ed a Ph.D in 1981. He is widely published in the areas of zeolite and molecular 
sieve synthesis and catalytic application and is currently investigating new mate-
rials for drug delivery. His research accomplishments have been recognized by 
many awards, including the first award to an engineer of the NSF-Alan T. 
Waterman Award, and a number of distinguished university lectureships, five in 
2002 alone at University of Colorado, Boulder; University of California, Berkeley; 
University of Notre Dame; Purdue University; and Carnegie Mellon University. 
Professor Davis is a member of the National Academy of Engineering. 
Traditionally, small molecule drugs have been derived from natural products 
(plants, microbes. and marine organisms). With the explosion of genetic informa-
tion. the creation of nucleic-acid based therapeutics is now advancing at a rapid 
pace. These so-called gene therapies translate knowledge acquired on the genet-
ic bases of diseases into treatments for humans. Unlike small molecule drugs 
that can passively move into and throughout cells, macromolecular therapeutics 
must actively be transported. With nucleic-acid-based drugs, the active transport 
involves penetration into the cell and movement to the nucleus. These demands 
take drug delivery to new heights by now requiring not only control of the level 
and location of the drug within the body, but also intracellular trafficking to a 
specified sub-cellular locality (nucleus). Efforts to design and prepare new syn-
thetic materials for gene delivery are increasing, and an example highlighting the 
use of intelligent materials will be presented. 


**Title: Two Families, One Shelter, Two Different Futures**
**Page number(s): 12**

/ 
t 
P
OPPO IS STANDING BAREFOOT IN. THE TINY KITCHEN, flipping 
mealy Bisquik pancakes. He is used to cooking for his fa.tl)ily; 
his mother Mary Anne is blind in one eye and reeling from respira-
tory disease. Poppo drenches three half-cooked pancakes in syrup 
for Mary Anne, who is sitting on a sunken couch, the only item of 
furniture in their stark living room. His sister Anna sleeps on a :mat-
tress on the floor rather than share a barracks-style bunk-bed with 
her two brothers in the bedroom. 

Mary Anne needs some luck right now. She lives.with three of 
her four children at Christian Community Action (cCA), a home-
less shelter in New Haven. Unless she can find an affordable apart-
ment by October 15, her shelter cut-off date, her family will disin-
tegrate. The Department of Children and Families (ocF) will seize 
her two youngest children and send them to live with strangers in 
foster homes. The arrangement would be temporary-if Mary 
Anne could find an apartment, she would regain custody-but she 
dreads the prospect of losing her kids. To pay for an apartment and 
keep her children, she needs a Section 8 voucher, a bond that the 
state pays to a landlord in place of rent. But the waiting list for 
Section 8 vouchers is more than 500 names long. Securing a vouch-
er, though possible, could take several years. 

Down the street, Jennifer and J ubi are fighting over green apple 
lip gloss. They are four and five years old respectively, and homeless. 

But their lives are more cheerful and comfortable than Mary Anne's. 
Jennifer got the lip gloss for her fourth birthday, along with a 
Momt~rs Inc. video, which she and her six brothers and sisters have 
watched three times in two days. They live at another CCA shelter 
with their mother Didi. Didi found a job last week: She is now a 
manager at Sam's Club, and her kids rave about her accomplish-
ment. Money is obviously tight, but her family went to Chuck E. 
Cheese last weekend, and the job will help Didi provide her chil-
dren with food and shelter. 

Both of these families, mired deep in poverty, are reaching on 
their tiptoes for the bottom rung of the economic ladder. But their 
stories will likely diverge. While Didi is on her way up, Mary Anne 
has litde. hope of escape. This is the story of two families struggling 
to find homes, and the obstacles in their way. 

'1
1 HE MOST PROMINENT FEATURE IN MARY ANNE'S LIVING ROOM is 
a cylindrical oxygen tank with a breathing tube that she inserts 
in her nostrils. She removes it to yell at 15-year-old Anna and 13-
year-old Joey, who are alternately hiding in the closet and chasing 
each other around the house. "What are you doing? Why are you 
doing that? Stupid assholes!" Her voice is dry and gracing, and 
yelling seems like it hurts. Mary Anne was in the hospital with 
pneumonia for three weeks in May and had to return several times 
Two families face 
after the 
1ife 
she1ter 
12



**Title: The 90-Day Rule**
**Author: Victoria Truscheit**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
in June. She cannot work, and though Anna plans to find a job 
when she turns 16 next month, their only source of income at the 
moment is welfare. 

Mary Anne's eldest child Ginger is 25 and slightly mentally 
retarded, or, in her mother's words, "slow." She lives in an institu-
tion down the road but comes home to visit regularly. Ginger calls 
Mary Anne "Mommy," and Mary Anne dotes on her. They were 
"hospital buddies" this summer, when Ginger had a shunt put in 
her liver. The shunt makes her constantly nauseated. As she shovels 
pancakes into her mouth, she suddenly gags. Mashed pancake bits, 
stuck in her teeth, threaten to explode out of her mouth. "Do you 
have to throw up, Ginger? Try to get to the coilet," her mother tells 
her. Still chewing, she turns towards the bathroom, pauses, and sits 
back down. "I'm okay." 

Today, if Ginger's feet don't hurt, they will walk co a local 
church soup kitchen, as they do on most Sunday afternoons. 
Sometimes they walk to Store 24, where the kids buy slurpees and 
Mary Anne relaxes with a cup of coffee. She hates going down there 
when she doesn't have money, "cause you can't buy anything and it's 
all there." Today she didn't have money for the New Haven Register, 
which Poppo reads to her. He looks through the classifieds for hous-
ing and a job for himself, since he just turned 18 and got his GED. 

Mary Anne was evicted from her last apartment, on Chapel 
Street in Fair Haven, when the building was condemned. Her 
apartment alone had 45 code violations, and the 82-year old land-
lord never touched the building. The family moved out less than 24 
hours after receiving an eviction notice and dragged their belong-
ings to a park. They stayed there all day, from 7 AM to 6 PM, until 
their social worker put them up in a motel. Anna had to leave 
behind two beloved cats and a guinea pig she had owned for four 
years. "She couldn't part with them. She was very depressed, and 
DCF made her leave them in the park," Mary Anne recalls. 

After their last apartment, the CCA shelter, with its back porch 
and open spaces, was a welcome relief Sometimes the churches 
down the street have services in Spanish, and Mary Anne likes to sit 
on the back porch and listen to the music. She is worried about her 
impending deadline, though. "The people are great, and I love 
being here, but I need to get my own apartment. I would take any-
thing right now. I'm pretty depressed," she says. Her blind eye is 
always watery, but now her good eye tears up as well. 

Both CCA and the city's social services agency are trying to help. 
"I have two good social workers on my side," she says; they are 
doing what they can. The OCF can make special arrangements to 
find her a voucher, but that may take months. Depending on cCA's 
assessment of the situation, Mary Anne may be granted an exten-
sion to stay two more weeks in the shelter. 

By Victoria Truscheit 
•, 
0croBER 2002 
13 


New Haven has taken heat in recent 
weeks &om homeless advocates and pro-
testers camped out in the tent city on the 
New Haven Green for imposing 90-day 
length-of-stay requirements in city-run 
shelters. But family shelters have had cut-
off dates for years. "For individuals whose 
lives are unstable, sometimes in the shelter 
a complacency or a comfort level sets in," 
Bonita Grubbs, executive director of CCA, 
tells me. "The cut-off dates are not intend-
ed to be punitive. If we don't give them 
some benchmarks, they'd be perfectly con-
tent to stay here. There's no rent, no elec-
tricity or gas bills, none of the economic 
strains that come with renting an apart-
ment. This is a really comfortable environ-
ment where a family can catch ics breath." 

But Mary Anne needs to do m'ore than 
catch her breath. I mention the tenacity of 
the protesters on the Green; cold weather is . 
co·ming soon, I say, and they will still be 
out there. "I might be one of them," Mary 
Anne jokes. But then she laughs and waves 
the thought away. 

·c 
CA PROVIDES 60-DAY temporary shel-
. ter for 17 families in buildings on 
Sylvan Avenue and Davenport 
Street. As family shelters in New Haven 
always are, these 17 CCA apartmentS are full. 
Shelter caseworkers turn away many more 
families than they are able to accept. Life 
Haven, Inc., a shelter for women and chil-
dren, turned down 28 families in August 
alone. The state has no legal obligation to 
provide for them. Unlike other state con-
stitutions-New York's, for example-
Connecticut's constitution does not guar-
antee the right to housing. The state's 
homeless population has risen significantly 
in the past year, and shelters are running 
out of resources. Most shelters in New 
Haven do receive money from the state, 
but they still have to stay on their toes. 

Earlier this summer, the state cut a chunk 
of itS social services budget, which includes 
shelter funding. At the last minute, some-
one discovered extra money and restored 
funds, but CCA was up to lose $2o,ooo. 

"This problem has been coming for 
awhile," says Grubbs. "In 1980 the state 
supported affordable housing to the rune of 
$125 million. Now it's like $5 million, and 
the freight train is going down the hill. I 
think we're going to be in this crunch for a 
while." 

Didi· makes .. 
sure her kids 
are fed. •I•m 
willing to 
eat dirt as 
long as they 
have eggs, • 
she vows. 

No one can defmitively explain the 
increase in homelessness. The factors over-
lap, forming a complex web of stories that 
eventually sound the same: they foreclosed 
on my apartment, slumlords let my build-
ing go to hell, minimum wage isn't enough 
for New Haven rentS, I can't find a job, I 
can't feed my kids and pay rent' too. And 
welfare reform, for its part, has knocked 
several thousand Connecticut families off 
the dole and onto the street in the past year 
alone. Many of them are tired of impos-
ing-dumping their kids on friends' 
couches, crashing at a brother's house. 

Unlike the city's single homeless popula-
tion, homeless families tend to be lifelong 
New Haven residentS. "Some families may 
never have been to a shelter before, but 
maybe they haven't had a permanent 
address in two years," explains Rachel 
Heerema, executive director of Life Haven. 

The phenomenon of the working 
homeless is more common than one might 
think. Jose, Didi's boyfriend, has had the 
same job for eight years but does not make 
nearly enough to provide for the nine peo-
ple his wages need to support. 18-year-old 
Michael lives with his mother, Valerie, 
down the hall from Didi at CCA. "You're 
not looking for a job. You're looking for a 
career," he says. "I don't see any moms over 
here with careers. I see moms working at 
Dunkin DonutS, Kentucky Fried Chicken 
-those are teenager jobs. They're busting 
their asses, doing it the best they can, but 
they can't keep up." 

Substance abuse preventS much of the 
single homeless population &om escaping 
their situation, but none of the parentS I 
met had a drug or alcohol problem. "With 
families, it's a different kettle of fish. 
ParentS have an amazing capacity to keep it 
together for their kids, and children are an 
incredible motivator," says Heerema. 

When addiction does become a problem, 
shelters call the state child welfare agency 
to intervene, and children are put in foster 
care. Parents then have to move out of the 
family shelter. But the incidence of addic-
tion is low among homeless families with 
children. The causes of their homelessness 
are much broader. 

When minimum wage won't pay the 
rent, people turn to the government. "The 
city bears the major responsibility to house 
ics own folks. Do they have the funds for 
that? Not really. Who does?" asks Grubbs. 

Grubbs is clearly frustrated with the city's 
impotence. "Maybe the dry's trying to do 
something about it with their initiativd. 
But my fear is, with aU the attemptS to sta-
bilize the dry, we might lose sight of indi-
viduals that are looked upon as a drain on 
the city's resources. Someone has to take 
care of them. What is being done to make 
living in this city affordable?" The homeless 
mothers I have met tend to lash out at the 
government in urgent, immediate anger. 

Mayor DeStefano's recent salary increase 
has been fodder for protesters on the 
Green. Grubbs, however, seems torn, 
TaE NEW JouRNAL 


24 SYLvAN AVENUE, where Didi's fami-
ly lives, is a nondescript building, 
across the street from an empty lot, with 
two security doors and a faded "No 
Loitering" sign. The block, littered with 
candy wrappers washed up from the sewer, 
is especially ugly on rainy days. Inside, 
apartment numbers are handwritten in 
permanent marker on sour green doors. 
The building hums with the sound of TV-
sets, hairdryers, and thumping hip-hop 
music. Downstairs, a bulletin board is cov-
ered with Christian inspirational messages, 
including a letter from Satan thanking 
readers for succumbing to his temptations. 

"Jennifer, let me do your hair," Didi 
calls. She begins to wrestle Jennifer's hair 
into a little afro puff-a long, difficult-
process that involves a lot of gel. Angel, 
Didi's oldest boy at II, lets out a whoop 
from the couch as he beats his younger 
brother AJ at a Sega game yet again. Didi 
calls Angel an "old soul." Under long eye-
lashes his brown eyes seem to be pondering 
measures of weighty importance. He has a 
collection of about 20 cos, all hip-hop, and 
spends every spare moment dancing to Ja 
Rule and Bubba Sparxx. Angel takes pride 
in running errands for his mom, bringing 
her the phone and borrowing eggs when 
she asks. When he thinks no one is looking, 
he combs back his hair with a pick he car-
ries in his pocket. 

Angel wants to be a "child doctor," 
like Benjamin Carson, whom he heard 
speak at Yale last year. Didi brags that AJ 
and Angel both get straight A's in school. AJ 
is visibly embarrassed and tells her he hates 
when she says that, but he smiles. Angel 
mentions several times that he reads at a 
ninth grade level. 

The amount of food this family con-
sumes is astonishing. AJ has made himself a 
sandwich with bologna, cheese, and the 
heel of a loaf of bread. Sandwich bread, 
among other things, disappears quickly in a 
family of nine. Didi lets Jubi sip from her 
coffee mug. "I need my coffee," she con-
fesses. In an apartment this chaotic, I can 
see why. "I tell people I have seven kids. 
Everybody asks me, 'Are you crazy?' But 
they keep me going," she says. 

Though he says none of his friends 
care that he lives in a homeless shelter, 
Angel hates staying at CCA. "The shelter 
sucks. It's annoying. There's no privacy," he 
says. But it is clean and well-maintained. 
Didi's last apartment was much like Mary 
Anne's. "I was living on the Boulevard in a 
three bedroo~ apartment. There's rats the 
size of raccoons in our apartment, and they 
see this, and they say it's liveable. Roaches 
crawling in your refrigerator. The judge 
said it's not worth it to be condemned, and 
there's much more they could be doing to 
that apartment. But the landlord's not 
doing anything! Why don't you take it 
away from him?" she asks, her voice rising 
in frustration. Didi fought with her land-
lord for four months and withheld rent 
until he threatened to evict her. Unable to 
find another apartment, she left on her 
own terms and moved in with her brother 
until she found space in a shelter. "The 
beautiful places, they're bOarded up. And if 
they're not, they want $1,500 for a 4 bed-
room. How are we going to afford that on 
a $6.50 an hour salary?" 

Didi and her family have lived at CCA 
since mid-August. She quit her job at 
Dunkin Donuts in March, when she went 
to court to gain custody of her sister's chil-
dren, who were destined for foster care. 
Ana, Tani, and Roy have lived with them 
since. Though Jose holds a steady job in 
landscaping, the economic strain of one 
less job in the family and three more 
mouths to feed was overwhelming. And 
now they have to find a home. 
15 



**Didi and Her Children**
**Author: J.**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Amazingly, though, Didi has found 
friends in high places. She is constantly on 
the phone, calling friends, calling the city, 
calling anyone willing to give her a hand. 
Some of her more creative schemes have 
been successful. At the opening of Ashley's 
Ice Cream last month, in front of TV cam-
eras, she told her youngest daughters to ask 
Mayor DeStefano to read them a book. 
The girls' pictures appeared in the New 
Haven Register the next day, and DeStefano 
called Didi back. He found himself a life-
time supporter: Didi wants to work for his 
next reelection campaign. 

This morning, she has promised to 
make breakfast for Ana and Tani, who have 
spent the night at a family friend's apart-
ment. That family friend is Andrea 
Pizziconi, a Yale graduate working for Yale 
University Properties, and a jackpot con-
nection for Didi and her children. Ana and 
Tani met Chris Alexander-who is married 
to Bruce Alexander, Vice President for New 
Haven and State Affairs-as part of the · 
New Haven Reads program, which Chris 
runs. In the past few months, she and 
Andrea have 
enrolled 
the 
kids in 
Neighborhood Music School dance classes; 
introduced them to the Yale Book Bank; 
helped six of them switch from their failing 
neighborhood 
school 
to 
Catherine 
Brennan Elementary; and showered them 
with gifts. The kids have also posed for 
many a Yale PR photo. For now, though, 
the older girls are belting out Nelly songs in 
Andrea's living room, and Didi is frying 
bacon. 

Didi makes sure they are fed. "'m 
willing to eat dirt as long as they have 
eggs," she vows. She fills plates even for the 
older children, making sure they get 
enough. Bottles of Kool-aid, once opened, 
must be finished. Didi prods Roy to finish 
his pancake, then lifts up Angel's shirt and 
pats his little belly, pronouncing him 
healthy. Later, she returns from running 
errands with a ~urprise birthday cake for 
Jennifer, who turned four yesterday. The 
older kids, warned to keep Jennifer away 
from the kitchen while Didi puts candles 
on the cake, whisper conspicuously and try 
not to smile in anticipation. Didi blind-
folds Jennifer with her hands, and they 
waddle down the hall together. As soon as 
Didi uncovers Jennifer's eyes in front of the 
cake, six voices break into a passionate ren-
dition of 'Happy Birthday.' 


D
IDI AND HER CHILDREN-by "the grace 
of God," Didi reminds me--are mak-
ing progress. Didi's earnings at her new job 
will not be enough for most apartments in 
New Haven, but it's income nonetheless. 
Her kids have practically moved in with 
Andrea, and she and Chris are using every 
resource they have to find Didi housing. A 
Habitat for Humanity house, a Yale job for 
Jose, and the Yale Homebuyer program are 
being discussed, and Andrea fields calls 
daily from people wanting to help. When 
their CCA cutoff date rolls around, Didi and 
her family will certainly have somewhere to 
go, whether that will be a temporary apart-
ment or Andrea's loft. In a few months, 
they may even have permanent housing. 

Mary Anne, on the other hand, does 
not have Didi's connections. She might 
very well be on the street in two months, 
depending on her 18-year-old son for sup-
port. Affordable housing is only a distant 
hope, and an apartment of her own is prob-
ably beyond reach. Mary Anne has tried to 
follow the traditional avenues out of pover-
ty-applying for the vouchers they told her 
to apply for, scrimping to put food on the 
table--but those avenues are many miles 
longer than she can bear. Mary Anne needs 
more than motivation and government 
aid-she needs people to bend the rules for 
her. For Mary Anne and Didi the system 
has failed. And when a system fails, people 
like Mary Anne have two choices: to work 
outside the system, as Didi has, or to suffer 
within it. 

Victoria Truschke, a sophomore in 
Berkeley College, is circulations and sub-
scriptions manager for TNJ. 


**He Cannot Help Himself**
**Author:  (No author listed)**
**Page number(s): 18**

H
E CANNOT HELP HIMSELF: In the small lower Manhattan 
Development Corporation (LMoc) office, Alexander Garvin is 
ever the professor. In the conference room, Garvin, Vice President 
for Planning, Design, and Development at the LMDC, gestures out 
the glass window overlooking Ground Zero. He could be pointing 
at a chalkboard as he traces his finger in the air along the subway 
platform that will someday stand next to the footprints of the Twin 
Towers. The view is like a slide in one of his classes, only the build-
ings and the people swarming below are in the here and now. 

Sporting his characteristic bowtie, which mirrors the symmetry 
of his equally distinctive, flyaway eyebrows, Garvin demonstrates 
how to look critically at Lower Manhattan. For Garvin the act of 
teaching never ceases, which is ironic since he never intended to 
teach (or become a public official for that matter, though he also 
serves on the New York City Planning Commission). "I was con-
vinced I would be an architect and that life would be very simple," 
Garvin says, "My life did not turn out that way." 

Life has not been simple, in part because Garvin is also an 
Adjunct Professor of Urban Planning and Management at Yale, 
teaching courses in Yale College and the School of Architecture. 
Garvin's occupations often coincide, however; as a guiding force at 
the LMDC, he is responsible' for hiring the staff--one third of whom 
are Yale graduates. Among the staffers with Yale diplomas are 
Brandon Smith, Hugh Eastwood, Brett Rubin (who all graduated 
in the last three years), and five others, including two LMDC vice 
presidents and one board member. The large number of Yalies on 
the staff is a joke around the office, repeated enough that it almost 
seems serious. Says EB Kelly, a Yale senior who worked as an intern 
under Garvin this summer, "No one will rat us out until we rede-
velop Lower Manhattan in the shape of a big Y." 

The coterie ofYale graduates helping to make this possible are 
all "Garvinistas," as the professor's protégés are affectionately called. 
The label comes from a baseball cap Garvin wears on occasion, with 
"Soy un Garvinista" across the front. A present from a former stu-


**Title: Can Alexander Garvin and his team of Yale graduates rebuild Lower Manhattan as the public envisions it?**
**Author: Emily Lodish**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Can Alexander Garvin and 
his team of Yale graduates 
rebuild Lower M anhattan as 
the public envisions it? 
By Emily Lodish 
dent, the hat provides a name which sticks to Garvin as steadfastly 
as Yalies do. But the number of former Yale students Garvin 
employs stands in stark contrast to the corporation's democratic 
intentions. The LMDC was formed after September nth by Governor 
George Pataki and Mayor Rudy Giuliani "to oversee and coordinate 
the revitalization and rebuilding of Lower Manhattan south of 
Houston Street." A central factor in their mission is a commitment 
to an "open and inclusive public process." (Garvin would be sure to 
add dedication to skillful planning and innovative design. In his 
words, "This is New York. Nothing less is acceptable.") In fact, the 
future of Lower Manhattan seems not co rest in the hands of the 
public but in the laps of a hand-picked group of Ivy-Leaguers. Yet, 
while Garvin's reliance on his Yale connections may have under-
mined the project's initial mission, in the end it just might save it. 


T
HE ATrRACTION BETWEEN YALIES AND GARVIN IS MUTUAL: He 
can't stay away from them either. "Garvin insisted on continu-
ing his teaching when he cook on the Lower Manhattan project," 
said Yale college Dean Richard Brodhead, "and I'm pleased that he 
has found so much talent for this project in the Yale ranks." Garvin, 
who began teaching at Yale immediately after completing his third 
Yale degree--he graduated from Yale College in 1962 and received 
degrees in Architecture and Urban Studies in 1967-has not missed 
a year since. This year, even with his added involvement in the 
LMoc, has been no exception. 

Working with a familiar staff ofYalies, Garvin has created an 
extension of his classroom. "Thank God!" he exclaims, "New 
Yorkers are getting their money's worth, and more." Because his stu-
dents have learned firsthand from Garvin the inner workings of 
urban planning, Garvin does not have to train them on the job. As 
a result, the I.MOc runs efficiently. The Yale-laden infrastructure of 
the LMOC is as functional and well crafted as Garvin's vision for a 
list Century Manhattan. 

Garvin's students, in turn, are graceful for the exposure to the 
world of high-powered urban planning. Kelly remarks chat Garvin 
is an institution unto himself, and Smith calls him a "black hole of 
movers and shakers" in the urban planning world. The sheer num-
ber of people who are both "magically very powerful and successful 
in urban planning" and have an affiliation with Garvin boggles 
Smith's mind. And it is decidedly so: A colleague of Garvin's from 
the Yale School of Architecture, David Childs, is currently redesign-
ing the Art and Architecture building on the Yale campus. Childs, 
along with the designer of the new History of Art building, Richard 
Meier, is among six fmalists selected by the LMDC to participate in 
a design study of the World Trade Center site. 

While bringing Yale ro the LMDC is an effort of Garvin's that 
Smith characterizes as "very conscious," it is also one that Kelly feels 
is ultimately irrelevant. For her, the Yale connection just means 
Garvin knows what each employee is good at, and is able to orga-
nize tasks accordingly. For this reason, she feels she was given more 
responsibility this summer than she would have been given at 
another internship. It may seem that Garvin, by hiring his former 
students, has created an environment where his ideology is rarely 
challenged. Garvin counters without hesitation that he chooses 
only the best people for the job. 

In keeping with the LMDC's "open and inclusive" approach, the 
community does have a great deal to say about the goings-on in 
Lower Manhattan. "My fellow citizens want their city back, and 
they want it back now," Garvin says. Thanks to the LMDC 's website, 
where the public continues co register thousands of comments, and 
to an ongoing process of public hearings, Garvin and his colleagues 
at the LMDC receive constant feedback. Finally able to participate in 
the redevelopment process, however, the public found they could 
only respond to plans that had already been conceived. At times, 
the community's ideas have departed radically from the six conser-
vative models presented in the LMoc's Preliminary Urban D~sign 
Study, suggesting that public comment 
should have been solicited earlier in the 
process. 

A common criticism was the general 
lack of innovation and boldness in the 
designs. Among the dissenting voices was 
The New York Timels architecture critic 
Herbert Muschamp, who wrote in July that 
"as a starting point for public discussion, 
the plans have little to recommend them." 
Muschamp criticized the LMDC itself for its 
"breathtaking determination to think 
small." Even Eastwood, who helped pro-
duce the study, identifies with this disap-
proval. "Putting out four of the first six 
plans hurt my heart," he says. Smith agrees, 
and goes on to say that the LMDC needed to 
tread lightly in its conception of the first six 
plans, since accommodating all the partici-
pating interests seemed nearly impossible. 

Some, like Smith, think building the tallest 
building in the world would be the best 
approach to redevelopment; others want 
the footprints of the Twin Towers left 
untouched. Garvin certainly recognizes the 
variety of players with a stake in the rede-
velopment process-not only those with 
significant financial interests, the list of 
which is long and varied, but also members 
of the public. "They have a great deal to say 
about where we go," Garvin says, "Is it 
bolder designs? We bring them bolder 
designs. Is it something in the skyline? We 
get them something in the skyline." Garvin 
understands that there would have been 
criticism no matter what was first put on 
the table. "This is New York, that's what 
you do." 

While staffers like Eastwood note the 
initial sting of negative criticism, Rubin 
reiterates that the LMoc's all-inclusive plan-
ning process "is the right thing to do ... If 
we received only one great idea from pub-
lic input that would not have otherwise 
been realized in closed-door sessions, then 
it was all worth it." Garvin adds, "Serious 
citizen participation in planning is essen-
tial. . .. The trouble is that democracy is a 
messy business. It takes time and patience." 
He yields (a rare oc<;urrence) to Churchill: 
"Democracy is the worst forni of govern- :1 
ment--o:cept 
for 
all 
the 
others." 

Nonetheless, the feedback Rubin and 
Garvin discuss came after the plans had 
already been conceived. The public could 
only resp2nd to these final proposals. 

Garvin takes the recent criticism in 
stride, however, exhibiting a buoyancy that 
Kelly describes as "resilient" and "opti-
mistic." This outlook, which may yet 
restore integrity to the project's democratic 
intentions, Garvin ironically attributes to 
his years in the Ivory Tower. It was at Yale 
that he feels he developed a "willingness to 
listen to people who think differently than 
myself, to argue and to disagree, but to 
value what they had to say as something 
that might be as valid as what I have to 
say." And listen he did when he heard that 
designs weren't inventive enough. "We 
hired half a dozen new design teams," 
Garvin says, "who are going to provide, I 
hope, some of that boldness." In light of 
this, even Muschamp seems to have backed 
off from his earlier, harsher remarks. He 
wrote on October 1, "If the public keeps its 
eye on the ball, 
the Development 
Corporation's latest effort could change the 
course of cultural life in New York." That is 
precisely what Garvin intends to do. 

He envisions a 21St century downtown 
where people not only work, but also live 
and hang out, and the market-driven poli-
cies he advocates support this. He adheres 
to this philosophy because it works; he is 
not interested in idealistic or utopian 
visions. Understandably, on this front, 
there is little dissent from his former stu-
dents now at the LMOC. As Eastwood says, 
•planning involves the real, the possible, 
not the utopian." 

Similarly, Garvin's genius, which lies 
in combining architecture and planning, 
presupposes "a rejection of utopian dreams 
and the insistence of looking at daily life in 
neighborhoods." Garvin draws a stark line 
between his two disciplines, saying, "Great 
architecture has nothing to do with plan-
ning." He promised early on that there 
would be great architecture on the World 
Trade Center site, but "planning," he says, 
•is a completely different function." The 
distinction between the two is one which 
he believes is often unappreciated by the 
public and the press. "The public demands 
great architecture," he says. New Yorkers 
clamor to have their skyline repaired. They 
want tangible and immediate evidence of 
progress. But, in urban planning, progress 
happens over the course of time, in com-
plex stages that are decidedly less immedi-
ate. It is here diat Garvin's dual lines of 
work reinforce one another. He takes care 
of what people don't know they need in 
order to give them what they want. He has 
taught his students to do the same. As 
Rubin says, "Especially with the monu-
mental task ahead of us with the World 
Trade Center sire, planning and design 
need to exist hand in hand." 

S
ITIING IN HIS OPPICB, Garvin recalls 
his high school prom in New York. At 
two in the morning, he stood at the base of 
the Seagram Building on Park Avenue, 
looking up at 38 floors advancing skyward, 
absolutely straight. This was the building 
that most impressed Garvin. Reminiscent 
of the Twin Towers, the Seagram Building 
is a glass-covered, high-rise office building 
in midtown Manhattan. "Wow," Garvin 
remembers thinking, "How could some-
body do that?" 

Today, Garvin can imagine people 
looking at what he does, at the level of 
responsibility he carries on a daily basis, 
and asking a similar question. For Garvin, 
though, it is just what he does. He must 
fulfill his duty to his fellow citizens, who 
"aren't going to tolerate waiting around 
until there is a consensus," he says. But like 
the Seagram Building, which was three 
decades in the making, rebuilding Lower 
Manhattan will take time. And now Garvin 
faces further delays which could have been 
avoided by soliciting public comment ear-
lier. Still, he moves forward with confi-
dence. Once completed, the Seagram 
Building was an instant classic. Garvin 
believes that another wiJI rise out of Lower 
Manhattan. 

Emily Lodish is a smior in 1imothy 
Dwight Co/kg~.


**Title: The Ritual of the Roll**
**Author: Jacob Blecher**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
By Jacob Blecher 
T
HE NIGHT I MET BoBBY SPEERS at the Circle Lanes in East 
Haven, he was holding a bowler's cocktail: lukewarm beer in a 
large plastic cup. I could see why he needed it. The windowless 
building reeked of stale cigar and pipe smoke, and the neon ceiling 
lights bathed the alley in a harsh, sterile light. "I've had better 
nights," he sighed. 

Indeed. 

Bobby was actually referring to his score, but he might as well 
have been hinting at something more. He did not look like a man 
who was having, as he described it, "a fun night out." For one thing, 
he was just standing around, idly sipping brew, fretting over the 
game at hand. For another, he was playing on a pretty lousy bowl-
ing team-the Metal Masters II-with men at least 25 years older 
than himself (he is about 40). Bobby and elders Keith, Vinny, and 
Lou had lost the first two games of the set, and they stood to plum-
met further toward the basement of the rankings if they couldn't set 
their acts straight in this, the final game. Their league is called the 
Four Horsemen; the apocalypse comes every Thursday night. 

It was time to turn things around. Bobby lumbered over to his 
ball, picked it up, and gazed menacingly at the ten pins standing 6o 
feet away. With a quick grunt, he lurched forward and launched the 
ball down the right side of the lane. Bobby is actually quite skilled 
for an amateur. He doesn't just roll the ball. He spins it-violently. 
as the ball seemed about to veer off into the right gutter, it 
left and smashed into the front pin, dragging down the rest 
its wake. A big "x" flashed on the screen, and Bobby pumped his 
in triumph. 

It may be hard to believe, but men from all over New Haven 
~umrv flock to the dingy Circle Lanes each week to play in the 
Horsemen, which is reputed to be one of the most comperi-
tournaments around. The top prize is $6,ooo, and the second 
third place finishers also rake home purses. The prizes are actu-
a little deceptive, because each player on the winning team only 
home $1,500 and pays more than $700 to play in the 36-week 
IDlltmamtent. But $8oo is not chump change to the bowlers in the 
As Bobby put it bluntly, "The common worker, that's who 
here." Bobby is himself an employee at a nearby tool and die 
"""npany, and most of the teams, including Bobby's, bear the names 
local industrial and service businesses. "New Haven Truck," 
J'alll'l1'1nr1r Paving," "Olympia Diner," and "Turbine Jets" were also 
that night. 

Bobby sat down with his beer, now half empty, for so.me "side 
-poker. At least that's what Bobby called it. It was really 
like solitaire, since Bobby was the only one playing. "If you 
a strike, you take a card," he explained, flipping one over. 
he was the only person on his team bowling consistent strikes, 
one else was taking cards. Keith, Vmny, and Lou were clearly 
-hteres:ted. "A full house!" he cheered. 

Bobby looked up at me: "You know, some of the guys here just 
for the recreation. Myself, I come here to play for money." I 
tell-why else would he spend a whole night in this dump? 
But I also stifled a chuckle; his words sounded like a line straight 
out of a movie. And as a bowler, Bobby is positively cinematic: He's 
a dean-cut, moustached man with a sizable paunch {tonight 
restrained by a green bowling shirt emblazoned with his team logo), 
and he plays our of pure love for the game. In fact, he used to be lit-
erally addicted to bowling: At one point in his life, he played in 
seven different tournaments simultaneously. The membership costs 
caught up to him, though. Now he can only afford to bowl in one 
league at a rime. 

As the next several frames passed, it became dear that Bobby 
was bowling a spectacular game. He told me that he was on track 
for a score of 279-just 21 points shy of a perfect game. He was even 
attracting a bit of a crowd at this point. Well, not a real crowd, but 
one whale of a man dressed in black whom Bobby seemed to know. 
They started talking, and the conversation apparently had to do 
with the ins and outs of kicking someone's ass. "I bet that guy over 
there with the grey hair could kick your ass," Bobby joked. His 
friend seemed to find this funny. They made plans to go hang out 
at the Chili's restaurant next door after the match ended. 

Bobby finished the game with a score of 248-he faltered in 
the final frames-but his above-average performance led the Metal 
Masters n to a solid gold finish, 830-739. Alas, it hardly mattered: 
The weak showing earlier in the night assured the team of yet 
another week of mediocrity. But Bobby was in higher spirits. How 
could he not be? It was rime to leave. 

B
OWLING, BEUEVE IT OR NOT, is the most popular sport in 
America. According to the National Sporting Goods 
Association, 40.3 million Americans bowled lase year; the Sporting 
Goods Manufacturers Association estimates the number at 55·5 mil-
lion. Bowlers outnumbered baseball, football, and soccer players 
more than two to one. Still, one can't help but ask the inevitable 
question: Why do so many Americans hit the lanes day in and day 
our, even when that means spending innumerable hours of their 
lives in dystopic surroundings, playing for meager prizes, and drink-
ing cheap, warm beer? 

Twenty lanes down from Bobby and the Metal Masters, I had 
another chance to find out. Here was the Yale league, a crew of 
middle-aged employees of the University and Yale-New Haven 
Hospital. Despite the assurances of Paul Minore, the vice president 
(every bowling league has a governing board), that "we just come 
here for a friendly game after work," the competition was fierce. 
Paul's team, the Green Machine, was neck and neck with another 
team called the Coasters. 

Paul doesn't look like a typical bowler-he's slender and beard-
ed, and he was dressed, in typical Yale fashion, in ~akis and a dress 
shirt-but he's as much a devotee of the sport as any. He's a w-year 
veteran of the league. Tonight, he announced, was his best perfor-
mance of the season. Apparently, this was due to a stellar day on the 
job. "If you have a really good day at work, you have a really good 
night of bowling," he told me. Then he added: "Of course, if you 


have a really shit day at work, you also have 
a really shit night of bowling." 

The wholesome Yale league purports 
not to play for money--only trophies-
but behind the innocent exterior is a 
rougher side: an informal gambling ring. 
Tonight, a dozen· or so guys, in.cluding 
Paul, were contributing to the pot, which 
usually tops off at $20. In this respect, the 
middle-class Yale employees differed sur-
prisingly little &om their counterparts at 
the other end of the building: They both 
treated the bowling alley as a casino. I won-
. dered why so many bowlers feel compelled 
to bet on their games. Is the sport in itself 
that meaningless? 

A dwarfish man named Jeff, another 
cog in the Green Machine, approached me 
and struck up a conversation. Jeff doesn't 
work at Yale, but the league recently let 
him in because his wife does. As he 
chainsmoked against the back wall, he 
seemed excited about the game at hand. 
Others, however, were decidedly less 
enthusiastic about his presence. "My team 
is kind of pissed that they're letting non-
Yale people in," Glen, a member of the 
Coasters and an x-ray technician, com-
plained. Glen is a burly Asian guy, and he 
is the star of the league. He once bowled a 
perfect game. He had other complaints 
about the league's oppressive tendencies. 
The league uses a handicap system based 
on a bowler's average to equalize scores, and 
Glen thinks that this leads some bowlers to 
cheat. "Sometimes, people dirt their aver-
age and then bowl well when they need to," 
he whined. "It's a real problem of this 
league." He also sniveled about a friend of 
his whom the league screwed over. "The 
league kicked a teammate of mine out of 
the league for not paying his dues," he said, 
disgusted. "But my teammates and I paid 
for him. It really didn't make any sense." 

By now, it was the seventh &arne of 
the final game, and it was too close to tell 
whether the Green Machine or the 
Coasters would come out on top. Jeff 
seemed nervous. He was still hanging out 
away from his team, still smoking up a 
storm. But he was definitely concentrating 
on the game. "Yes, we'll definitely take 
that," he muttered to himself as one of his 
teammates knocked down nine pins. 

Paul stepped up to the foul lirte and 
readied himself to bowl. Paul, it turns out, 
is not quite as good a bowler as his devo-
tion to the game might lead one to believe. 
He averages consistently over roo, and his 
style is amateurish: He rolls the ball straight 
down the middle of the lane. He only 
knocked down eight pins with his first ball, 
he completely botched the spare. He 
frowned and stomped his foot on the 
ground. Jeff sighed. 

The match was coming down to the 
wire. By the tenth and frnal frame, both the 
Green Machine and the Coasters had com-
bined scores just above 900. I asked Jeff 
who was going to win. "They won it 
already," he sighed. I asked how he knew, 
since the scores were nearly identical. He 
didn't respond-maybe he didn't hear me. 
But Jeff's pessimism was proven true: A guy 
on the Coasters team bowled a final strike 
and the team sailed to victory, 948-934. 
"Talk about giving them the game on a 
platter," one man snapped. Glen, ever the 
competitor, was ecstatic. He stood up and 
bowled a ball between his legs, just for the 
heck of it. Paul seemed down. "Technically, 
we gave it to them," he told Jeff and packed 
his things up to leave. 

A
WEEK LATER, I found myself at the 
Hamden Lanes on Dixwell Avenue. 
The Hamden alley is an identical copy of 
its East Haven counterpart (they're both 
owned by the same company). The place 
was teeming with league action. It was a 
stark contrast to the dark and deserted 
exterior. A tournament called the Barbara 
Fox Classic had taken over 32 lanes, leaving 
only a half dozen or so for regular cus-
tomers. Men and women of all ages were 
participating. Some sat and watched, oth-
1 
ers wandered and chatted. 

In the gloomy bar, a half dozen rueful 
souls were silently slumping on bar stools. 
A baseball game blared on a television in 
the corner, and their eyes were transfiXed 
on it. I tried to imagine where these people 
came from and why they had come here, of 
all places, on a Friday night. And then it hit 
me: these were the true slouches of the 
bowling world. Bobby, Paul, Glen, and Jeff, 
at least, had had the guts to create their 
own drama . 

]ac~b Bkch"- a junior in Davmport 
College, is associate editor forTNJ. 
THE NEW JouRNAL 



**Title: Fields of Dream**
**Author: Anne Weber**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
', 


**Title: Norfolk, Connecticut**
**Author:  The New Journal**
**Page number(s): 26**

N
orfolk, Connecricur-popularion 2oo-lies 
somewhere berween New york and Boston, 
nestled in the foothills of the Berkshires. Its 
landscapes reflect its geographical posicion, caught 
berween what is pristine and what is man-made. 
These photos explore the nature of that tension-
both in the land and in the minds of the people 
whose lives it shapes. 


**Title:  Untitled**
**Author:  Ann~ ~ber**
**Page number(s): 27**

Ann~ ~ber is a smior in Timothy Dwight Co~.



**How a Seemingly Ineffective Union Demonstration Turned a Disparate Workforce into a Unified Bloc**
**Author: Daniel Kurtz-Phelan**
**Page number(s): 29-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
IN THE DAYS BEFORE 675 PEOPLE WERE 
arrested on College Street, New Haven's 
labor unions prepared for action. At the 
First Methodist Church, 100 students, 
workers, and interested community mem-
bers listened ro the instructions of Steve 
Thornton. Thornton is a veteran national 
labor activist who calls himself a "non-vio-
lent direct action civil disobedience orga-
nizer." This means that he trains people to 
get arrested for the cause as quickly, pain-
lessly, and effectively as possible. His tone 
was curt as he reeled off advice: wear com-
fortable shoes and eat something before-
hand, since "getting arrested might be a 
time commitment." Meanwhile, a handful 
of union employees distributed "pre-arrest 
cards." Committed arrestees, they instruct-
ed, should submit their names, addresses, 
dates of birth, and social security numbers 
to the New Haven Police Department 
before the mass arrest. That way, the cops 
could pre-prim tickets and distribute them 
efficiently. With careful planning, they 
could make a forceful but orderly point. 

The group broke into drills. They 
lined up in "hassle lines," with half the
group in arrest formation-arms linked in 
a long chain-while the other half acted 
like hecklers. Then roles reversed. This 
time, instead of hecklers, participants were 
supposed ro impersonate journalists, asking 
"hard questions about why they're out 
doing what they're doing." With any luck, 
their answers might in a few days end up 
on the from page of The New J0rk Times. 
Union 
headquarters, 
meanwhile, 
buzzed with activity. Organizers shouted 
into phones over the drone of copy 
machines running overtime to produce 
recruitment materials for potencial arrestees 
and pamphlets for the hundreds of witness-
es expected to show up for Wednesday's 
event. The conversations consisted mostly 
of gentle persuasion. "Getting arrested will 
be a fine experience," an organizer 
explained. "Fill out the card and the cops 
will have a ticket right there waiting for 
you. There's a fine of $30 or $40" -it 
turned out to be $88-"but you can do, 
like, eight hours of community service 
instead, and we're also selling t-shirts to set 
up a fund for people who can't pay." 
Periodically, someone stood up waving a 
stack of papers and yelled victoriously, "I 
got another committed" -moving closer, 
signature-by-signature, towards their pro-
fessed goal of orchestrating "the biggest 
civil disobedience since civil rights." 

Around New Haven, similar conversa-
tions were taking place in churches, com-
munity centers, coffee shops, and class-
rooms. I was riding with one organizer as 
he sped between T hornton's training ses-
sion and a prayer meeting at a local church, 
where labor activist preachers were invok-
ing the light of the divine to boost numbers 
on the arrest tally. Every few minutes, a col-
league checked in via cell phone to give an 
update or announce another small victory. 
20 people came forward in a rousing "altar 
call" at a Fair Haven church; at another 
church, a man had come to a prayer meet-
ing just to watch but "was so moved by the 
spirit there" that he signed a pre-arrest card 
before he left. 

One union organizer summed up the 
hopes for the event to me with a sly pitch: 
"You know, this is the one time when your 
body being on the right side of the line 
makes a huge difference. The possibility of


A NO so WENT THE RECRUITING LINE: 
#-\AFter months of increasingly acrimo-
nious-and, by this point, stagnated-
negotiations between the Yale administra-
tion and Locals 34 and 35, the unions that 
represent the University's clerical and 
maintenance staff, the labor community 
needed to send a stronger message to the 
administration in hope of breaking an 
apparent 
deadlock 
and 
avoiding 
a 
University-wide strike. While University 
spokesmen had uttered their typical line 
about the continuing progress of bargain-
ing, union leaders had grown pessimistic. 
Their demands, it seemed, just weren't get-
ting through to the administration; they 
needed some new way to communicate if 
negotiations were to continue. 

Recent media attention had focused 
on the negotiators' inability to reach an 
agreement on bread-and-butter issues, but 
the more fundamental, and more nebu-
lous, concerns of the unions had not even 
been addressed, especially the organizing 
rights ofYale graduate students and work-
ers at Yale-New Haven Hospital. District 
1199 of the Service Employees International 
Union and the Graduate Employees and 
30 
Students Organi~tion (GESO) are working 
to unionize hospital workers and graduate 
student teaching assistants respectively, and 
have united with Locals 34 and 35 under 
the Federation of Hospital and University 
Employees. Each is demanding that its 
employer accept what is known as card-
check neutrality-impartiality in the orga-
nizing stages and official recognition once 
more than half of each workforce has 
signed cards expressing solidarity with the 
union. Both 1199 and GESO report that 
more than 6o% of their workforces have 
signed such cards. For months, Locals 34 
and 35 have made the University's accep-
tance of these signatures a basic condition 
for the signing of a new contract-an alle-
giance that is surprising to many given the 
disparate characters that make up the four 
groups. 

The recognition of these groups as 
unions is not the only sticking point in 
talks. To Locals 34 and 35, however, Yale's 
stubbornness on this front reflects its gener-
al inability to see the need for a "funda-
mental change" in its relationship with its 
employees. "The situation with GESO and 
the hospital cuts to the heart of how Yale 
thinks of and treats people who work here," 
union spokeswoman Deborah Chernoff 
said. "If you take away the hoopla, GESO 
and hospital workers are just saying to Yale, 
'Let's sit down and have a real talk.' That's 
really what we're all saying." 

In September, Yale President Richard 
Levin distributed a letter to the communi-
ty that criticized unions for their con-
frontational stance and tendency to "demo-
nize" Yale. For many union organizers, 
Levin's harsh new tone signified that an 
amicable outcome to negotiations was all 
but impossible. So they set a date: 
September 25. That day, provided no con-
tract had yet been signed, union forces 
would mobilize for a mass arrest. 

From that point on, recruitment was 
frantic and planning was meticulous. 
Having inflated the public's expectations, 
organizers h ad to ensure that the actual 
numbers 
would 
back 
them 
up. 
Originating with the central committee, 
union networks extend like tentacles into 
every segment of the Yale community. 
When lead organizers first announced the 
action, the message traveled to unionized 
clerical and maintenance employees, hos-
pital workers, embattled graduate stu-
dents, the clergy, local politicians, and 
activist undergraduates at a remarkable 
pace. The strategy was to work through 
existing relationships: a history graduate 
student would approach another history 
graduate student, a minister would 
preach politics to his congregation. 




**Title: Yale's Labor Movement: A Calculated Risk**
**Author: Daniel Kurtz-Phelan**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Passed along like this, the recruitment 
line was retooled for the recipient every 
time it was uttered. 


The night before the event, the 
Reverend Scott Marks, a prominent figure 
among labor leaders and the activist clergy, 
held a sort of prayer meeting for students 
in the heart ofYale's campus. Marks is built 
like a linebacker, speaks in the cadence of 
an old-time preacher, and once justified his 
political involvement to me by bellowing, 
"I am a stickler for prayer and worship, but 
when you're done praying, you have to get 
off your knees." But that night, with fifty 
Yale students crowded around him under 
the lights of C ross Campus, he ended his 
pleading and sermonizing with a hollow 
appeal to self-interest: "You are not doing 
this for the people of New Haven. You are 
doing this for yourselves." 


B
y THE NEXT MORNING, alJ the elements 
were in place. The unions had the sig-
natures of some 700 people, from all camps 
and all backgrounds, committed to being 
arrested. The police department, working 
closely with union organizers, had devised 
a fail-safe plan to ensure that everything 
lVent smoothly. T he media, of course, was 
alerted. 


With such perfect orchesuation, the 
event went off without a hitch. Hundreds 
0croBER 2002 
carne to witness, hundreds to paroc1pate. 
Linked arm in arm, they were a microcosm 
of the New Haven commwliry and reflect-
ed the incongruous alliance that makes up 
the local labor movement. The line includ-
ed not only union workers but also 200 
GESO members, 65 undergraduates, 35 cler-
gymen, four aldermen, and three State 
Representatives. Photographers and jour-
nalists swarmed around them. A squadron 
of New Haven police officers had prepared 
the scene earlier that afternoon. They had 
readied barricades to redirect uaffic when 
the arrest line crossed the busy intersection 
of College and Elm Sueets. As the 675 par-
ticipants filed across the Green, Andrea 
Cole, an organizer for Local 34, soberly 
directed the crowd of witnesses as if recit-
ing a dialing menu on an automated 
answering service: "I need you to listen 
very carefully to these insuuctions. We are 
asking every person to maintain order and 
respect." After the participants were 
warned by the police and then arrested, 
they lined up to collect their citations at 
tables that had been set up beforehand. 
The cops thanked union leaders for coop-
erating so well. "We couldn't have asked for 
a better time. Everything went very 
smoothly and everyone was very helpful," 
said one department spokesman. 


All had gone according to plan. But 
the next day, press accounts focused largely 
on the orchesuation of the event, foregoing 
any substantive discussion of the underly-
ing issues for accounts of its overt theatri-
cality and barely veiled criticisms of its flat 
tone. Labor leaders must have reacted with 
some dismay when The New 10rk Times 
scoffed, "the two-hour spectacle ... looked 
like a cross between a voter regisuation 
drive and an arts-and-crafts fair." 


T
HREE YEARS AGO, Yale's lefr-wing com-
munity was convulsing over another, 
more distant cause: the use of sweatshop 
labor in Cenual America and Southeast 
Asia to manufacture Yale clothing. In the 
debate over what course of action to fol-
low-more protests, a mass public arrest, a 
hostile take-over of an administration 
building (as Harvard living wage activists 
did last year, generating a month-long 
national media frenzy}-the fall of 2002 
became a central concern. Even then, those 
in the know were anticipating a serious 
showdown 
over 
labor issues-which 
would, naturally, demand impassioned 
involvement by committed students. 


"Don't go and get arrested now," one savvy 
veteran of the activist scene cold me 
somberly. "You have to save yourself for 
2002, when the conuacts are up. That's 
when shit will really get crazy." 


This divide-and-conquer 
strategy misses one thing: 
The alliance is as much 
pragmatic as it is ideological. 
As recently as last spring, however, 
both union leaders and the Yale adminis-
tration were heralding a new era in labor 
relations at the University. 


In his 
Tercentennial address a year ago, President 
Levin effectively staked his legacy as a New 
Haven visionary on the outcome of negoti-
ations: 

In the years ahead, I hope that we 
can achieve the sacne kind of 
progress with our labor ·unions, 
whose members make an essential 
and valuable contribution to ·the 
life of the University. We are eager 
to work with Locals 34 and 35 to 
find a new way of structuring our 
relationship, relying on day-to-
day collaboration rather than 
periodic confrontation. Just as 
our work with the city of New 
Haven required participants on 
both sides of the town-gown 
divide to cast aside long-held 
prejudices, working collaborative-
ly with our unions will require 
participants on both sides to over-
come years of distrust. 

While the gulf between the union and 
administration on issues like GESO and the 
hospital workers was obvious to anyone 
who looked beyond the fulsome head-
lines--one organizer referred to it as a 
"media love fest" -union leaders look back 
on that time as one of sincere hope. 


"People really expected something when 
President Levin talked about collaboration 
and change," Chernoff said. 


But Locals 34 and 35 had also learned 
some crucial lessons since the last time the 
labor battle flared up, with a brutal two-
month strike in 1996. Now, union leaders 
look back on that action as largely a failure. 
They ceded to the administration the right 
to sub-contract jobs in new buildings, 
which would have otherwise gone to union 
members. A year later, when Levin 
announced the start of a capital campaign 
and one of the most ambitious building 
sprees in the University's historf, union 
leaders 
felt 
they'd 
been 
tricked. 


Subcontracting embodies the greatest 
threat to the survival of unions: irrelevance. 
On a national level, organized labor has 
struggled to adapt to an economy in which 
service jobs outnumber those in tradition-
ally unionized industries, and union mem-
bership has plummeted to 13% of the 
workforce. At Yale, the administration's 
decision to subcontract directly under-
mined the leadership and negotiating 
power of Locals 34 and 35 by slowly starv-
ing them of members. 


Taking up the cause of graduate stu-
dents and hospital workers, therefore, fit 
into a deeply pragmatic calculation: If suc-
cessful, the organizing drive would increase 
union membership at the University from 
4 ,000 to 8,ooo. "The secret's out: The 
unions want to grow," Chernoff explained. 
"We can do things better when we repre-
sent more people." Yale, meanwhile, has 
refused even to engage negotiators from 34 
and 35 in a dialogue about GESO and II99, 
issues that they dismiss as immaterial to 
bargaining. In the case of the hospital, the 
University has long disavowed an actual 
institutional connection-despite the fact 
that President Levin sits on the hospital's 
board and has the power to appoint several 
of his fellow board members-and has said 
that it has no jurisdiction over the hospi-
tal's union-bashing administrators. Work 
floor managers at the hospital are notorious 
among workers for their chilling intimida-
tion tactics: "You come out of there scared 
shitless," one employee told me. Last 
month, eight people, including two Yale 
graduate students, were arrested while 
leafleting in front of the building. Yale 
administrators have also resisted GESo's 
attempt to gain formal recognition. In their 
most recent move, they have suggested 
holding a National Labor Relations Board 
election while acknowledging that they 
would forestall a final decision through 
years of lengthy appeals. Since the alliance 
between these aggrieved groups and the 
established Yale unions started taking 
shape, the administration has repeated to 
the 4,000 members of Locals 34 and 35, as 
University spokesman Thomas Conroy did 
again after 
the arrests, "What the 
University hopes is that the Yale unions' 
support for other unions that are trying to 
organize workers does not delay contracts 
for Yale employees." This divide-and-con-
quer strategy, however, misses one thing: 
that the alliance is as much pragmatic as it 
is ideological. 


E
ARLY THIS YEAR, the unions and the 
administration jointly hired John 
Stepp, a labor consultant who served 
in the Department of Labor under 
President Reagan, to make negotiations 
more productive and more personable. 
Stepp's goal was to make each side better 
understand the "feelings" of the other, so 
that bargaining would include more of a 
"non-traditional, problem-solving process" 
and less bickering. He conducted some 100 
interviews with everyone from rank-and-
file union members and University middle 
managers to President Levin and New 
Haven Mayor John DeStefano. The con-
sultant-speak report that emerged was 
deeply damning of Levin and the Yale 
negotiating team, which soon relieved 
Stepp of his services. It delineates "a highlY 
adversarial and dysfunctional relationship.! 
non-productive at its best, but ofteD 
destructive, and ultimately, demoralizing 
for both union and management." It is dot· 
ted w~th phrases like "caste system: 
"underclass," "union ghetto," and "disdaiD · 
for working people." 


At the end, Stepp lays out a set of bul-
let-pointed recommendations. First, the 
University must understand "the union's 
long-term need to grow its business" -in 
uanslation, it must come to terms with the 
expansion of unions to previously unorga-
nized communities, like graduate students 
and hospital workers. It also calls for "a 
profound change in the way the University 
manages irs non-academic workforce and 
the union's role in representing it." After 
sounding the call for this "profound 
change," the report ends on an ominous 
note: "If the next bargaining round were 
conducted in a traditional manner ... a 
great opportunity would be missed and the 
residual negative climate would make the 
launch of a new relationship highly unlike-
ly." 


As negotiations break down into 
squabbling over percentage pointS and pen-
sion numbers refined to meaningless 
abstraction, union leaders talk more and 
more about this "profound change." 
·union members came to the bargaining 
table with the expectation that there would 
be some fundamental change," said 
Chernoff. "That has nothing to do with x 
and Y percent. We want to be looked at as 
assets, not just numbers." I asked Chernoff 
to explain in concrete terms what this fun-
damental change might look like. She 
offered a few case-specific examples-
training time for clerical workers, advance-
ment opportunities for the custodial 
staff-but then ironically slipped into the 
same platitudes that Levin continues to 
express in his public statementS on Locals 
34 and 35, mentioning "partnership" and 
"collaboration." Finally, she concluded, "I 
don't know how possible it is to do that." 


But then a few minutes later, she back-
tracked. "Actually, this is what it is: the 
University accepting that there's nothing 
fundamentally different about workers 
from any other segment of the communi-
ty." 


The University's official recognition of 
GI!SO and 1199 is inseparable from basic 
respect for irs employees as equal members 
of the University community. If the admin-
istration were truly serious about a partner-
ship with irs workers, union leaders ask, 
why would they so underhandedly try to 
derail every n~ effort to organize? "Yale 
has never committed co making people 
who devote their life to working here fed 
OcroBER 2002 
trained and respected," Andrea Cole 
charged in the week after the mass arrest, as 
negotiations plodded along in typical fash-
ion. "Once they decide to sit down and talk 
in a real way, I have no doubt we ~n make 
progress. But up until now, they haven't 
been serious about talking at aU." But Yale, 
after the arrests more than ever, has empha-
sized irs adherence to business as usual. As 
Conroy said, "We think that the focus 
should be on the bargaining table, and now 
that the demonstration has been held ... 
we can get back to business and continue 
negotiating." But when I asked Conroy if a 
strike can be averted, he hesitated and 
tepidly responded, "There's still some 
hope. There's certainly some." Locals 34 
and 35, for their part, along with members 
of GESO and organized hospital workers, 
have voted to authorize a strike--a decision 
that will likely go into effect this fall if this 
round of talks fizzles. 


Before the mass arrest, union organiz-
ers offered a range of purposes for the 
event. First, they highlighted the need to 
make the Yale administration listen to a 
point "that they were just not hearing." 
This point was often cast in terms of union 
expansion and uaining opportunities, but 
had more to do with the murky concept of 
"fundamental change." In the weeks since, 
union leaders seem to have recognized their 
failure to get this message across. But the 
more cenual purpose of the event may have 
been internal, and may explain why union 
leaders have convinced at least themselves 
that the bad press and dismissive attirudes 
in the wider community do not matter. 


"We have learned not to focus on what the 
media says," Cole said. Instead, she point-
ed to the effect on union members them-
selves. "It's strengthened the conviction of 
those who participated. They did some-
thing they were aftaid of, and they came 
through on the other side. That's very pow-
erful." At the moment when 675 people 
linked arms on College Street, the most 
important point may have gone unstated: 
The unions are ready for a strike. 


Dani~L Kurtz-Ph~lan, a smior in 
&rk~ley Co/kg~. is ~ditor-in-chitf of TNJ. 

**Title: A Formal Feeling Comes**
**Author: Flora Lichtman**
**Page number(s): 34-35**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
A Formal Feeling Comes
T
HE. LOGO WAS EVERYWHERE-popping out from behind doors, 
~t down from walls, scattered on tables. This carcoony trip-
tych was the spokes picture for Yale's "September II th, One Year 
Later" programming. It was printed on every poster, flyer, and 
handout advertising the memorial events scheduled a year after the 
attacks. 

The logo consists of three pictographs-the first in red, the 
second in white, and the third in blue. The first image is an abstrac-
tion of the Twin Towers-and by abstraction, I mean two off-kilter 
rectangles that look like an overly starched pair of pants, ready to 
drop. The second picture is an aerial view ofThe Pentagon-repre-
sented by bold lines and cracked into pieces (an image probably 
obtained from the same clipart b~k that provided the rectangular 
pants). The third is the outline of an airplane in a nose-clive cowards 
the bottom of the page. The cockpit has already been swallowed up 
by a grass-green border below the logo. On the larger posters there 
is a yellow half circle behind the figures-it looks like the outline of 
a giant asteroid. Under it all: "To commemorate the anniversary of 
the terrorist attacks, Yale is planning a series of educational and 
memorial events to be held on September IOTH and nTH. The pan-
els and concerts are open to the general public." It sounded like a 
birthday invitation and looked like one coo. 

At first I thought that the goal of the 9/n triptych was co cap-
ture 9/11 without sugar-coating any of the horror of the day-no 
patriotic God Bless America testimonials, no waving flags, no "don't 
mess with us" Maybe it was supposed to be grotesque and brutal 
just like 9/n, the more graphic the better. Then where are the bod-
ies? The arms and legs sticking out of gutters? The people falling 
from the IIOTH floor, enveloped in flames? Where is the plume of 
smoke and human ash? 

Broken buildings and shattered machinery were the least hor-
rific part of the day. If the designer was confined co clip art (as the 
triptych suggests), he could have at the very least plunked in some 
stick figures with x's for eyes, staring out the windows as the plane 
crashed to the ground. But maybe it wasn't about horror. Maybe the 
designer had something else in mind. Maybe the object of this 
graphic was to summarize the events that took place lase year, in 
case somebody had forgotten. The logo clidn't even get that right. 
The twin towers clidn't fall over like a sec of blocks. The Pentagon 
clidn'c crack like broken place. We remember it better than that. 

Every time I see one of those posters, now fallen, trodden on, 
and clirty, I am sad. I expected to have things figured out by the 
time this anniversary rolled around. But I haven't. And if I couldn't 
on my own, I was counting on somebody else to explain it. Neither 
34 
has happened, and I'm not ready for logos or triptychs or slogans or 
birthday invitations. I need the unabridged explanation first. 

Guns blazing, I confronted the designer of the graphic. Peter 
Johnson grc:eted me with a firm handshake and a smile, armed with 
a folder of his sketches and a few different copies of his graphic. He 
wore khaki pants and a plain, collared shirt. His hair was grayish 
blond, combed neatly to the side and his thin white moustache 
bobbed up and down as he spoke. "It was kind of an impossible 
cask," he said quietly. "Most of my work has been Yale directed, but 
this is a world crisis, a human event, and it definitely put me on the 
edge of my chair. I'm used co areas of imagination, but this was 
beyond imagination." His deep voice began co waver. I put the guns 
away. 

Suddenly, I could imagine being in his shoes. I wanted to 
understand how he went about tackling what seemed like an impos-
sible task. "Almost like writing a poem is how I think about it," he 
explained. "In graphic design, form is like sound and language. 
Poetry encapsulates the sound of language, as opposed co just hav-
ing a literal meaning." 

He pulled out some sheets of paper from a folder. From his 
front pocket, he removed a small notebook of recycled brown 
paper-pages of sketches, each a variation of the approved graphic. 
The clifferences between the drawings were subtle: a clifferent figure 
stood in here or there, the crack ran through the pentagon in dif-
ferent places. Every line of his fmal graphic was drawn with pur-
pose: "I wanted three symbols. I always remembered the Shanksville 
[Pennsylvania] crash. I thought there was such heroism in that par-
ticular ace. I clidn't want to emphasize the towers; I wanted the 
Washington DC attack and the Pennsylvania attack to be just as 
important," he said. "Then, I wanted to gee across a sense of frag-
mentation or rupture or devastation. Shanksville was the most dif-
ficult for me to think about. I had a symbol of plate glass shatter- , 
ing. There was a sense of toppling, breaking, crashing-but these 
are just words, sounds, literal meanings. So I tried co formalize them 
without being coo clever. That was the other mandate. This was no 
place to be clever." 

I hadn't even thought of this ammunition. But of course it 
made sense: to be ingenious or witty with September uth would be 
in poor taste. But what was stancling in for cleverness? The towers 
tumbling, the plane in mid-crash-these images were not clever. 
They were clisturbing. "I wanted it to be alerting," Johnson said. 
"But I clidn't want it to be clistressing or macabre. I clidn't want to 
show ruins or death or have it too horrific." "Why not?" I askeod. 
Maybe it should have been more·clisturbing, more real. "Because we 


--- Page 35 ---

all kind of know that [it was horrific]. And to identify that would 
almost underplay the seriousness," he said without skipping a beat. 
•I wanted to be alerting in a positive sense." I was not convinced. 
Death should not have been forgotten in order to make the logo 
upbeat, I thought to mysel£ How could he ignore the people in 
those buildings? T his day will go down in history because humans 
were murdered, not because buildings were broken. 

In response, Johnson explained to me the difference between 
formal abstraction and figurative representation. To illustrate his 
point he described the early controversy surrounding the Vietnam 
memorials in Washington oc. He juxtaposed Frederick Hart's sol-
dier monument (a literal depiction of soldiers on the battlefield) 
with the more formalist black gash in the soil. "There are a lot of 
people riding the fence berween formalism and figurative, or literal 
and abstract. . . . I was raised as a formalist. It's my language or 
Vocabulary. As a person who was in Vietnam, I was much more 
drawn to the abstract. And it might be who I am or by the very fact 
that [September nTH] was unimaginable." 

Johnson hadn't ignored death. He just knew what he wanted. 
He knew what he felt did justice co the death associated ~th a war 
that he fought in, and for him Maya Lin's memorial was the most 
llloving-a monument that was abstract. He told me he was trying 
to accomplish something like that. 

To drive his point home, he pulled out an old Nro~ Haven 
~. 
On the outside back cover was his graphic with Yale's 
~nts highlighted below it. On the inside back cover was a huge 
Ocro&ER 2002 
By Flora Lichtman 
oval air brushed picture of the twin rowers standing unscathed. A 
gigantic American flag waved in front of the rowers. In front of the 
flag, two massive hands held a burning candle. Below this picture 
"Our Faith Will Not Be Shaken" was wrinen in bold. The pair of 
pants suddenly didn't look so bad. "A lot of this gets too sentimen-
tal," he said while looking at the burst of patriotism before him. 
"Bur if I use the word sentimental, somebody could say that my 
graphic is too mechanical." His eyes shifted back to his art. 
"Adminedly, I consider it formal; I hope it's not mechanical. I want-
ed it to be poetical." 

But are there answers in his poetry, I wondered. Did he under-
stand September nTH and could I understand it by looking at his 
graphic. "Unimaginable things happened," he told me. "I wasn't 
trying to understand it. I was trying to do the best I could." The 
graphic didn't have gruesome pictures of mangled human bodies, 
but it didn't sugarcoat either. The logo didn't act as an exact caption 
not because the designer forgot what happened or assumed we for-
got; he didn't want it to be literal. His graphic was deliberate. It did-
n't matter that it didn't hold all the answers to September liTH, 
2001-
that wasn't its purpose. Instead it gave us a way to think 
about it. And perhaps just seeing 9/u from different vantages and 
through different mediums gets us closer to some understanding. 
Johnson had the courage to take a stab at it. I'm glad he did. 
' -
Flora Lichtman, a sophomore in Davenport College, 
is production manager for TNJ. 
35 


**Title: THE CRITICAL ANGLE Voice of America**
**Author: Kathryn Malizia**
**Page number(s): 36**

THE CRITICAL ANGLE 
Voice of Atnerica 
0 
N SEPTEMBER 19, 6oo people packed the seats of New Haven's 
Center Church on the Green. Wherever they sat, stood, or 
squatted, they listened in silence, breathless, their eyes trained on a 
small, ancient man hunched behind a podium at the front of the 
church. They listened as his voice, cracked with age, sang out these 
lines: 

In a murderous time 
The heart breaks and breaks 
And lives by breaking. 
It is necessary to go 
Through dark and deeper dark 
And not to turn 
I am looking for the trail. 
Where is my testing-tree? 
Give me back my stones! 

The man was Stanley Kunitz and those lines conclude his best-
known poem, "The Testing-Tree." Told through the eyes of a child 
who uses a monolithic oak for target practice, "The Testing-Tree" 
evokes the anguish of living in the modern age, an age in which the 
sorrow of a single boy is simultaneously profound and furile. 

Kunitz, a former poet laureate, was just one of nine poets to 
perform that night at a reading celebrating the prestigious Bollingen 
Prize for ?oetry, awarded by Yale University every rwo years for 
what it recognizes as ''che very best in American poetry." T he mes-
sage is clear enough. Bollingen winners are not your up-and-com-
ing young talents, rwenty-somethings rotating odd jobs and scrib-
bling away nights in their East Village lofts. Nor are they your poets 
du jour, or those flash-in-the-pan best-sellers. Bollingen po~ts have 
been published, reviewed, reprinted, coUected, awarded, antholo-
gized, and more often than not, offered lush professorships in the 
English departments of the country's top universities. Sharing the 
stage with Kunitz were such luminaries as John Ashbery, Robert 
Creeley, Louise Gluck, John Hollander, ws Merwin, Gary Snyder, 
Mark Strand, and Richard Wilbur. Given the removed and self-
reBective nature of much modern poetry, the event could easily 
have slid into irrelevance, of interest only to the smaU coterie of lit-
erary scholars, professors and university students who comprised 
the audience. Instead, most of the poets attempted to engage the 
current political climate, either by prefacing their work with an 
oven opinion or by embedding it within the poetry itsel£ Though 
almost all the poets tried to make a significant comment on the 
rimes, Stanley Kunitz acruaUy succeeded. And his success carne not 
By Kathryn Malizia 
from some bold, new meditation, but from a poem written over 
thirty years ago. 

In 1968, short on inspiration, Kunitz was at Yale, staying with 
Calhoun College Master RWB Lewis before giving a reading. While 
there, Kunirz found a moment of inspiration and completed the 
poem whose ending had beed evading him-none other than "The 
Testing-Tree"-which, at the event, he playfully called "the obscure 
legend of my youth." But regardless of the poet's intentions, "The 
Testing-Tree" is far from obscure and is much more than an auto-
biography. 

By turns comic and tragic, trivial and epic, naive and visionary, 
Kunin's "The Testing-Tree" is to my mind a great American poem 
by a man who should be deemed the poetic voice of America. The 
language is simple, the scenes are eerily familiar, and the voice is 
friendly and intimate. The poem may not come off as high poetry 
in the tradition of, say, "The Wasteland," but that does not dimin-
ish its power. It deals precisely with the toughest questions that we, 
as both humans and Americans, face in our daily lives. 

From its outset, the poem expresses itself in uniquely American 
terms. Composed in four pans, it first carries the reader through a 
parable of American youth and closes with ari oracular vision, 
freighted with the passionate determination "to go /through dark 
and deeper dark I and not to tum." The narrative section by con-
trast benign as it follows the path of a boy who seeks his adversary 
in, of all things, an oak tree: 

On my way home from school 
Up tribal Providence Hill 
Past the Academy ballpark 
Where I could never hope to play 
I scuffed in the drainage ditch 
Among the sodden seethe of leaves 
Hunting for perfect stones 
Rolled out of glacial rime 
Into my pitcher's hand 

T he game being played at the Academy is, of course, easily rec-
ognized. It's basebaU, and the narrator's exclusion from it, perhaps 
an aBusion to Kunin's own ost:racism as a Jew living in America in 
the early 2oth century, marks him as an outsider. The boy finds balls 
for his own solitary game in a nearby ditch. His are not of leather 
but stone, smoothed by the force of ages predating both America 
and its "tribal" predecessors. But before the reader has time tO 
reflect on the implications of that "glacial rime," the boy is off in his



**Title: The Testing-Tree**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The Bollingen Prize winners confront 
politics with poetry. 
state-of-the-art "magic Keels," tearing down the road, the "world's 
fastest human." 
Next, he comes to a bend in the road, but resists its turn 
toward home in favor of a "nettled field," an undisturbed natural 
expanse, replete with "rabbit-life," bees and "a stringy old lilac ... 
blazing with mildew" that guards the entrance of the woods where-
in stands the testing tree. But the boy does not enter the wood 
unprepared. He tells of a "key" he once owned to a moss-thickened 
trail, where, he says, "flickering presences/gave me rite of passage." 
He follows resolutely in the footsteps of Massassoit, the Indian who 
forged the legendary treaty with the first pilgrims. Kunin hearkens 
back to the historic moment when America's first civilization 
embraced the one that would eventually supplant it. Centuries later 
his boy narrator still practices his "Indian walk" as he creeps 
through the primitive wood. 

At the end of this symbolic retreat into nature, past a quarry 
abandoned by its human creators, the boy comes to a clearing where 
all at once the stones in his pocket become "oracles" in the shadow 
of the testing tree. He describes his confrontation with the tree as 
an "appointment," as though this meeting were fated or at least 
agreed upon in advance. He has come to play a game against a 
monolith of nature he describes as "tyrant and target, I Jehovah of 
acorns I watchtower of the thunders." The tree is both enemy and 
savior, an earthly thing invested with an imagined supernatural 
power to save or damn, depending on the skill of the thrower. 
Although the game is ostensibly only a test, target practice for the 
real thing, the boy plays "for keeps," going so far as to invoke the 
blessing of his absent father (Kunin's father committed suicide 
before he was born) on his "good right arm." Like the real game, he 
bas only three throws, and he hurls his oracles "for love, for poetry, 
I and for eternal life," a redemptive trilogy that, years later, he will 
find worth fighting for against more than mere trees. 

And that necessiry to fight comes crashing in with the fourth 
part. It opens with a bizarre recurring dream, in which the boy, now 
grown, is directed to a well containing an albino walrus, a perverse 
white elephant prophesying a "murderous time." The natural world 
of the testing tree, and the innocent, idealized America it symbol-
izes are gone, swept away by a "single Model A" that "unfurled a 
highway behind I where the tanks maneuver, I revolving meir tur-
rets." The safe, isolated fantasy of youth and the testing tree have 
given way to a cruel, mechanized reality of war. Whether America 
>ever was an idyllic natural paradise inhabited by peace-loving 
Indian tribes is beside the point. In the mind of the speaker and by 
ettension, in the mind of American itself, something has changed. 
OcroaER 2002 
T he promised land of the past, where a boy could practice for the 
challenges ahead without facing those of the present, no longer 
exists. Those challenges are here and they must be met. The speak-
er, whose heart lives only to break in anguish, knows that he must 
journey "through dark and deeper" without any "key" or "rite of 
passage" to help him find a path. He is lost in a modern world he 
had no part in creating. But the boy in him cries out still: 
I am looking for the trail. 
Where is my testing-tree? 
Give me back my stones! 
It is a futile and anguished cry, wracked with longing for an irrecov-
erable past, whether it be the author's vanished youth or America's 
vanished innocence. 

It was these words, along with the two previous tercets begin-
ning with "In a murderous time," that Kunin had labored over 
when he visited Yale in 1968. One night, he told the audience at the 
reading, he had been working on the poem and went down to the 
kitchen. Master Lewis was watching the nightly news when he 
walked in, and on the television he saw that Martin Luther King, 
Jr. had been shot. Kunin recalled, "The news was too much for 
me." He returned to his room and furiously completed the poem. 
With these nine lines, Kunin belied his humble intentions of telling 
the mere "obscure legend" of his youth; instead, he had created a 
poem that transcended subjectivity. In this way, "The Testing-Tree" 
represents Kunin's brilliance: He recognizes that one cannot dwell 
forever in the past or the personal, and that poetry, to be great, must 
inevitably step outside itself. 

"The Testing-Tree" is a deeply American poem. Without 
directly commenting on the assassination of Martin Luther King, 
Jr., it still confronts the tragedy, and by implication, America's oft 
troubled past. But more than a historical conscience, Kunin is 
America's prophet, interpreting the unexplainable in familiar terms. 
He sees America in a way that it cannot see itself: in the immediate 
present. 
Kathryn Malizia, a junior in'Bran.ford College, 
is research director for TNJ.


**Title: TRUE BLUE**
**Author: Ellen Thompson**
**Page number(s): 38**

Y
ALE BEGAN CREATING ITS OWN HISTORY from the moment itS 
history began. "The Victorious Crew of 1859," a painting 
held in Sterling Memorial Library's Manuscripts and 
Archives, is prime evidence. The rowers in the picture are enjoying 
their moment, but not in the way the adult coaches in the painting 
would like. They are not taking themselves too seriously. They stand 
casually. Their oars extend comically upwards, dwarfing the heroes 
below. But the two elders flanking them understand that history is 
in the making. One man is turning towards the team, in a posture 
of battlefield gravity. The other man, identified as 
Commodore Page, holds a flag and faces 
inwards as well, barely at ease. The 
flag he holds may very well be the 
original source of Yale Blue. To 
most observers it is a relic of the 
past, but to University Printer 
John Gambell the flag taunts, . 
"come and get me." 

While the history of Yale Blue 
is mostly a subject of cocktail conversa-
tions among retired alums, for Gambell it is 
part of his job. In one month the Printer's Office will 
make a resource available to guide the design of Yale materials. This 
has forced them to ask the unthinkable: Should Yale Blue be reeval-
uated? Former University Printer Greer Allen has a range of possi-
ble blues in mind. Among them, he said, "My preference would be 
a color that appears dark, rich blue, which is identifiable from 
black." Tom Strong, who does graphic design for Yale, prefers a 
darker blue. For practical purposes there is an official Yale Blue, 
Pantone 289, but the working definition is another matter. Gambell 
describes it as "a strong, relatively dark blue, neither purple nor 
green, though it can be somewhat gray. It should be a color you 
would call blue." 

If the definition of Yale Blue is vague, that is because itS his-
tory is vague. The early sons of Eli, observing the blue of today, 
would go red in the face. "Old Yale forever! Ever green may she be!" 
said William Maxwell Evarts in 1853. Green was Yale's color for half 
a century, until 1894, when blue officially replaced it. Most respon-
sible for the shift were the members of the "Victorious Crew." 
Former University Secretary Carl Lohmann traced Yale's blue to an 
original piece: "A Commodore's flag, a blue silk burgee, heavily 
fringed with white silk . . . was bought by Commodore Waite." 
Within the next decade the crew began to wear pantS of dark blue 
and dark blue handkerchiefs, and their adoring fans wore blue to 
match. 

The origin of Yale Blue was obscured, however, by historians' 
wish for a grander, longer tradition. In a 1918 article, Franklin 
Bowditch Dexter looked to the opening days of the Collegiate 
School for the source of the blue. A purchase of blue calico in 1708 
and blue paint on the buildings of the original school were his 
proof But Dexter sought a convenient continuity that never exist-
ed. His theories were debunked twenty years later. 

In 1938 another painting was dedicated to the self--conscious I 
creation of Yale history. This time the canvas was filled entirely by 
itS subject, Yale Blue. Lohmann, the same man responsible for 
recording the 1853 appearance of Yale Blue, wanted to settle the 
question once and for all. Under the Office of the Secretary, a piece 
of silk w~ chosen to preserve Yale Blue, and a painting made to 
match it. There are two competing descriptions of the origins of 
this piece of silk. According to one story, the color 
was selected with the cooperation of alumni 
and 
the 
administration 
under I 
Lohmann's direction. In another 
version, 
President 
Seymour 
bought the silk himself on a trip 
to Oxford. Given Lohmann's 
other efforrs to enthrone Yale 
Blue, it seems likely that he is the 
author. But whatever the source, the 
color first appeared on President 
Seymour's inaugural robe. The piece of silk 
now resides in a vault in Woodbridge Hall and has guided 
every decision about Yale Blue since. 

"Wouldn't it be nice to say it was this Yale Blue," Gambell says I 
wistfully. Yet, even with the cloth in hand, he is still looking for the 
elusive color. In the mid 1950s the Secretary's Office launched a sec-
ond search for Yale Blue. The silk and painting ftom 1938, while 
adequate for matching fabrics, were little help in matching ink. The 
Munsell color system, developed in 1952, was the most convenient 
way to establish a new standard. Rumor has it that when the 
University made itS match and ordered 50 pounds of ink mixed, the 
ink company replied that they already had that ink in stock: It was 
the shade used by the Modess sanitary pad company. Whatever 
pink was put into the cheeks of the past administration has since 
faded, however, and for Gambell this is just one more lead. When I 
all his factS are gathered, Gambell will decide if the current Pan tone 
289 is the best representation of Yale Blue, or if a more recently 
developed Pantone color is a closer match. 

Silks fade and color systems change and Gambell is left con· 
sidering the particulars of tradition. Which choice does better jus-
tice to Yale: keeping the current Pantone standard, or adjusting it 
coward a better bluer past? Greer Allen has had a lot of time to think 
about this. He has resolved that the question, "if ever settled once 
and for all, would leave Yale a bland, boring and uninteresting 
University. So my morning prayers regularly include the fervent 
hope, 'Dear Lord, please have the answers to the questions sur· 
rounding Yale Blue and the V~and Map forever elude us!" II1J 
Ellm Thompson, a smior in Ezra Stiles Collegt, 
is on th~ staff ofTNJ·



**Title:  Does the Web Decide What's in The New York Times?**
**Page number(s): 39**

TUESDAY OCTOBER 15 
DoEs THE WEB DECIDE wHAT's IN THE NEw YoRK TIMEs? 
THREE STARS OF AMERICAN OPINION MAGAZINES 
TALK ABOUT THE RisE oF ONLINE JouRNALISM 
Panelists: 
Michelle Cottle, Senior Editor, The New Republic 
Rich Lowry, Editor, National Review 
Jack Shafer, Editor at Large, SlAte 
Moderator: 
Lincoln Caplan, Knight Senior Journalist, Yale Law School 
and Editor, Legal Affoirs 
4:30p.m. 
Room 102, Linsly-Chittenden 
3:00p.m. 
A Master's Tea, Berkeley College 

MONDAY NOVEMBER 11 
AFTER THE WoRLD TRADE CENTER: 
THE STRUGGLE To MAKE A CITY FOR OuR TIME 
A lecture by Paul Goldberger, Architecture Critic of The New Yorker 
A Master's Tea, Morse College 

All Events Free and Open to the Public 
For information, call436-218S or go to www.yale.edu/opalnewslpoyntn:html



**Title: Yale University and New Haven: We're Building Our Future Together**
**Author: [No Author Listed]**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Y~e University and New Haven: 
We're Building Our Future Tog~ther 
Yale University has a special commitment to New Havens young 
people. More than 10,000 New Haven young people participate in 
Yale-sponsored academic and athletic programs on the Yale campus 
every year, and thousands of Yale students work with public school 
children through Dwight Hall and other programs. 

These Yale student tutors in America Reads and America Counts will provide 45,000 hours 
of literacy and mathematics instruction to over 600 New Haven Public School students. Yale 
University has contributed nearly $100 million to educational and cultural outreach programs 
and to community investments outside its campus in New Haven over t~e past dozen years. 

Yale University: Contributing. to a Strong New Haven 
www.yale.edu/ onhsa 

