Publication date: 02/87
Volume 19, Issue 5

**Title: Dealing in Dreams**
**Author: Erin KeUy**
**Page number(s): 23-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The stocky Tennessean strides confidently around the lecture room, his starched white shirt beginning to wrinkle like an accordion down his back. His audience listens intently, scribbling notes as the man says, "$1.9 billion in bonds was shared by six major investment banks last year." He intersperses quotations to enliven the presentation- his sources include Aristotle, Ecclesiastics, and Cyndi Lauper. The man is a salesman and his product is investment banking. David M. Darst, executive with the major Wall Street investment bank Goldman, Sachs & Co., taught the SOM course last fall which surveyed this exploding field. Yale undergraduates, some wearing suits, flocked to hear him discuss his coveted profession. And they seem to have acted on his advice. Growing numbers of students applied this year to investment banks. Boston received roughly 200 applications from Yale alone. Many others praise the profession, citing large salaries and glamorous benefits. Others view this enthusiasm warily, suspecting their friends of "selling out." Undergraduates on both sides of the debate wonder what such a large percentage of the class of '87 is getting itself into. 

Investment banking is a financial service industry which organizes financing for corporate and non-profit entities. Largely because of federal legislation deregulating the banking industry, investment banking has grown explosively in the past several years, producing the recent glut of corporate mergers. Liberal arts majors at Yale and at other prestigious colleges generally apply to two-year analyst programs, during which they work long hours and earn $30-50 thousand per year, including bonuses. After their two years, many analysts go on to business school or to other jobs. Yale students who have entered investment banking describe a job that is both glamorous and dull, rewarding and frustrating- a job which does not always match the expectations of undergraduates. 

Reports of investment banks' high wages draw Victoria Beach (PC'87), who criticizes the hypocrisy of affluent students who feign indifference to money. "Money's cool. It's too bad you need it, but there's no other way," she explained. Tired of depending on her parents, Beach seeks the self-respect that comes with financial independence. She admires those who prosper through hard work. "There's the whole American dream thing of the young person who has no money and works his way up. My parents did that, and I'd like to imitate it." Many Yale students, highly sensitive to the fact that their privileged education costs someone $16 thousand annually, feel compelled to prove their ability to earn the kind of money that has supported them. 

High wages attract many for whom the world of finance is not a primary interest. Though she admits that her main interests are international relations and architecture, Beach argues that neither field offers attractive positions for first-year college graduates. Like many, Beach views not pursuing a secure, well-paying career immediately after college as risky and irresponsible to herself and her parents. She mentions friends who have gone into architecture and writing. The architect resents the limitations of his artistic expression imposed by his client's tastes. The writer must teach, which she dislikes, to support herself. Beach wants to return to her other interests, but says she will do so only when she has acquired the financial security investment banking can provide. 

Many Yalies who do want to pursue business see investment banking as the ideal introduction to the complex web of the American economy. Brendan Fitzgerald (SM '87) is an Italian major who eventually intends to apply his knowledge of four languages to controlling his own international shipping firm. Fitzgerald asserts that the current high interest in investment banking does not prove that students like himself intend to give their lives to that career. Instead, he sees an analyst program as the ideal stepping-stone, providing the concrete business experience absent from his liberal-arts education. 

Like Fitzgerald, who wants to put aside Italian literature and learn something practical, some liberal-arts graduates are drawn to investment banking as an arena of "real-world" action and accomplishment. Ed Fleming (MC '88) says his interest in the profession relates to his conviction that deals he could make as an investment banker would provide the concrete sense of accomplishment that his abstract education has not. "You want to leave your mark on the world. If I could drive through New York and tell my grandkids, 'I arranged the financing for that building,' that would be satisfying." 

Many students who want to accomplish social change believe that their best course is to work through the existing system. They have grown cynical about the idea that bright-eyed enthusiasm and liberal arts education are enough to solve complex political and economic problems. Investment banking interests these students as a rigorous introduction to the workings of money in the "real world." Many seniors stress the value of working within the system. Philip Lynch (DC '87) says that his investment banking motivations are not altruistic, but that he does see finance as the best road to solving world problems. "I think it's inefficient for a smart, educated Yale graduate to spend time going to Africa and passing out food." Clearly, Lynch feels that Yale graduates can be more effective by going into finance. 

In addition to their more practical considerations, many undergraduates say their fascination with investment banking comes from a perception that the job offers power and glamour. Fitzgerald says the prospect of manipulating huge sums makes investment banking more attractive to him than traditional manufacturing industries. "I firmly believe American industry needs more young smart people; unfortunately, it just doesn't have the appeal. What's the glory in making high-diameter steel piping?" Awareness of the deterioration of American industries, such as US Steel and General Motors, swings many toward investment banking. When college graduates face the choice of climbing aboard a sinking industry or hopping into a job which profits enormously from restructuring that industry, investment banks often win out in grabbing the most qualified. 

Numbers blur on the computer screen at 3 a.m. as Peter Phleger (SM '85), former English major, runs his fingers through his hair, trying to stay awake to finish the financial analysis for the leverage buyout his company has undertaken. He works the keyboard mechanically, his concentration spent. Phleger will be in bed by 4 a.m., and then back to work by 9 a.m. He expects to work all weekend. Scoffing at the idea that his job is glamorous, Phleger says, "these magazine articles come out portraying investment banking as a sexy job. That image of glamour serves analysts well, and they perpetuate it, but it's a misrepresentation. There ain't no glamour in front of the computer at 4 a.m." 

Although analysts stress that their responsibilities vary with company and department, Phleger's project illustrates several common aspects of the job. Halfway through his second year at the small investment bank of Dillan Reed in New York, Phleger works with seven other analysts in performing much of the fundamental analysis required for the financial advisement his company offers. Phleger explained that he was currently working on a leverage buyout deal, describing it as "buying a company with very little of your own money and then using profits from