Publication date: February 4, 1968
Volume: one
Issue number: seven


**MASTHEAD**
- Editor: Daniel H. Yergin
- Publisher: Peter Yaeger
- Executive Editor: Jeffrey Pollock
- Designer: Ronald Gross
- Photography Editor: Herman Hong
- Advertising Manager: Robert Reisner
- Associate Editor: Jonathan Lear
- Circulation Manager: Jean-Pierre Jordan
- Copy Editor: Alan Wachtel
- Classifieds: William M. Burstein
- Staff: Tim Bates, Paul Bennett, Susan Braudy, Wm. Clay Howe, Lawrence Lasker, Chris Little, Jonathan Marks, Howard NewmaD, Jim Ponet, William Rhodes, Barney Rubin, Sam Sutherland, David Zorensky


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- Waiting for the Herky Bird - Betty Jean Lifton
- Closing The Doors in New Haven - Lawrence Lasker
- Hartspring Blows His Mind - Ernest Lockridge
- Comment: Yale Meets the FBI Man - Tina Painter


**Title: Waiting for the Herky Bird**
**Author: Betty Jean Lifton**
**Page number(s): 3-4**

Betty Jean Lifton, a free lance writer, 
last summer made her first trip to Vietnam 
since serving there as a correspondent in 
1954 after the Geneva Accords. She also 
covered the end of the Korean War and 
has contributed to The New York Times 
Magazine, Mademoiselle, and the Asahi 
Evening News of Tokyo. She is the wife of 
Robert Jay Lifton, professor of psychiatry 
at Yale.

I made my first acquaintance with the 
Herky Bird when I flew from Saigon to 
Qui Nhon and Danang last summer. 
Officially designated as the Cl30 Hercules, 
the Bird is a camouflaged, slightly pot-
bellied four engined turboprop transport 
that regularly shuttles north from Saigon 
to the sprawling bases, the more modest 
supply depots, and the tiny isolated jungle 
camps. Known for its reliability, the GI's 
have come to regard the Herky Bird as 
one bit of certainty in an uncertain war.

I had dressed in what I felt was appro-
priate attire for going out into the field 
with the boys-old, baggy, khaki-colored 
slacks, a faded tailored shirt and flat 
sandals. I had studiously avoided makeup 
or even removing Saigon's surplus dust 
from my hair. And so I was astounded 
on climbing into the cockpit, to what is 
known as the Ladies' Bench, to find a 
young woman in a bright summer dress, 
high heels, and freshly-coiffured hair, with 
copies of Glamour and Good Housekeep-
ing on her lap. We might have been 
taking off for some tropical resort.

She was the secretary to the General at 
one of the camps. "I've been out here a 
year," she said, "and I've just extended for 
the next four months. I like it a lot. The 
social life is good, there's no danger if 
you stay close to camp, and the time goes 
quickly." Then she volunteered: "I'm hop-
ing to get a certain lieutenant colonel to 
propose by Christmas. It would mean 
divorcing his wife. If he doesn't, I'll go 
back to Kansas and get some kind of 
work there."

Knowing she was based in an area 
famous for its refugee settlements, I asked 
her about them. "Refugees?" she said 
"I haven't seen any refugees."

When I insi~ted that her province alone 
was reponed to have 76,000 unsettled 
refugees, she conceded, "Oh, there are 
some Vietnamese behind barbed wire en-
closures down the road from us. Maybe 
that's them. I'm really not interested in 
these people. They're so diny and they 
won't help you do anything. I can't even 
find anyone to clean my room who doesn't 
spit on the floor. And they're so unreliable. 
The boys don't like them either.'' And 
then she concluded with a shrug, "I know 
I shouldn't talk like this, but I can't help 
the way I feel. Even the General thinks 
I'm too hard on the Vietnamese."

The Herky Bird by now had taken off 
and was flying north along the shoreline 
of the South China Sea. The co-pilot 
motioned for me to come forward and 
look down. Below were some of the most 
breathtaking beaches in this part of the 
world. Again there was the uncomfortably 
relaxed feeling of being on a resort flight. 
However, the view to the west, where the 
plains along this narrow strip began to 
rise into steep mountains, brought me 
back to the reality of Vietnam. Bomb 
craters bearing testimony to an aerial 
bombardment of the day or week before 
stood out like open wounds on the earth.

I began to notice the scattered American 
installations, patches of tents and quonset 
huts, of barbed wire and airstrips, placed 
so inappropriately in this lush landscape.

As we dropped into Nha Trang at night-
fall, picking up troops, leaving off supplies, 
I could feel the isolation of those hot, dusty 
camps, surrounded by hostile territory, 
dependent on the Herky Bird for their 
supplies and connection with the outside 
world.

One night I found myself dependent on 
the Herky Bird. I was waiting for the 11 
p.m. Herky Bird to deliver me .from the 
Qui Nhon air terminal back to Saigon. I 
had visited the Danang and Qui Nhon pro-
vincial hospitals, most of whose patients 
were the civilian war-wounded. I bad seen 
children with amputated limbs, and young 
people with half their faces blown away, 
and old people with shattered hips and 
staring eyes; and I had heard stories about 
how they were sleeping in their beds, or 
tending their water buffalo or cooking in 
the kitchens when the shells or mortars un-
expectedly hit, catching them in crossfire 
or just falling like thunderbolts from some 
angry god. I was almost stupefied with the 
accumulated beat and stench and sorrow 
of those over-crowded wards, and now as 
I 1 p.m. approached, I could only hope 
that the Herky Bird would not be late.

But at 11 p.m. the Herky Bird did not 
appear. The GI's waiting with me talked 
casually of crashes--of the big one at 
Danang, the one at An Khe, of those 
caused by maintenance problems or short 
runways, and of the one that killed eight 
educators a few months before on a moun-
tain near Danang-"bad visibility."

"Don't worry, one Herky Bird or an-
other always comes through, even if not 
exactly on the nose," said the young 
corporal in charge of coordinating flights. 
"In aU my times here I've never known a 
night when the Herky Bird did not show 
up."

However, when the Herky Bird did not 
appear at midnight, the corporal, who had 
been communicating with Saigon by 
phone, admitted that the scheduled flight 
had broken down. "But another plane will 
be leaving there shortly," be promised. "If 
it makes the usual stop at Nba T rang, it 
will get here in an hour and a half. But 
if it continues on to Danang and Hue, 
as the other should have done, you might 
have to wait up to four hours." And then 
he added cheerily, "Still, they just might 
send a special plane from a nearby base, 
for we have important cargo that must 
get to Saigon tonight." Since Qui Nhon 
was a supply depot, neither I nor the other 
correspondent stranded there thought 
to ask what the cargo was.


There was little air in the small, brightly-
lit terminal, but some of the soldiers 
stretched out on the hard benches, their 
rifles resting like faithful dogs next to their 
helmets on the floor. Their faces looked 
young, and unlived-in as they slept. We sat 
outside on the benches where there was a 
slight breeze coming in off the sea, but also 
mosquitoes. Next to us was a sergeant 
waiting for a morning flight to take him 
back to Pleiku in the Central Highlands. 
"I would have driven back to Pleiku 
in the convoy earlier this evening, but 
Mama-san didn't have my laundry ready," 
he said-the ·•san" being GI lingo carried 
over from the Japanese Occupation and 
the Korean War ... The road has two bad 
passes where "'e usually get shot up a bit, 
but it might have been worth it to avoid 
waiting here all night."


**Title: Comment: Yale Meets the FBI Man**
**Author: Tina Painter**
**Page number(s): 2**

FBI 
"Do you have your draft card on your 
person? How well do you know Reverend 
Coffin? ... Well, frankly son, it's kind 
of a personal thing, my feeling for the 
director, Mr. Hoover. Now did anyone 
help you decide to turn in your draft 
card? ... Of course we will have to report 
that you refused to answer some ques-
tions."

The pattern was the same that first day 
the FBI agents came swarming across 
campus after Resistance Week, in October. 
The two agents sit on hastily cleared 
chairs, trying to chase Grand Inquisitor 
fantasies from the interviewee's mind. One 
agent takes notes. One agent asks the 
questions and chats.

After several questions, they casually 
hand the interviewee a statement to sign. 
The statement waives the interviewee's 
right to silence and his right to counsel. 
He is tense, surprised, uncertain. Should 
he sign? What is penalty for not signing? 
Should he have started talking in the first 
place? What are his legal rights?

Thus six Yale people were taken totally 
off guard and answered some questions 
during surprise visits that Monday of the 
FBI's week-long Yale investigations.

According to a Yale Law Journal 
(December) article, all twenty-one Yale 
people ultimately interrogated were largely 
ignorant of legal rights to silence and to 
counsel guaranteed them by the Miranda 
and Escobedo decisions. They only learned 
of the rights after six were visited that first 
day.

If this highly inteiJigent and well-
educated group is ignorant of how the law 
protects them here, says author John 
Griffiths and Richard Ayres, then it is not 
surprising that less educated members of 
society are also ignorant of their rights.

After Monday's unexpected visits, the 
alleged resisters met with lawyers Griffiths, 
Charles Reich, and Clyde Sommers. They 
decided the best policy for future inter-
views would be silence. The lawyers ex-
plained that refusal to talk is not a cop out. 
Silence only guarantees that a potential 
court case would be less complicated-
cleaner,legally speaking. Silence would 
also make investigation proceedings a 
little harder for the agents.

But principally, as John Griffiths said 
recently, one doesn't really know what the 
agents are really after. If you answer 
questions, selectively or otherwise, you 
could unwittingly implicate someone else. 
You yourself might, both fortunately and 
unfortunately, be of little interest to the 
investigators. Chances are they are prob-
ably after someone else. They interview 
you to pther evidence about a movement 
and its.leaders. Any evidence you give 
might be used to implicate an alleae<f 
leader, like Rev. Coffin.

But what about the six Yale people who 
talked to aaents before the lawyers told 
them how the law protects them. Not one 
of the six attributed his decision to turn in 
his draft card to the influence of any other 
person.

The article points out that the FBI often 
made no attempt to refer or inform these 
people of their legal rights until several 
questions had been discussed. When the 
agents finally proffered the waiver state-
ment, people were simply confused. They 
had already talked to the agents about 
their lack of draft cards and why. They 
were not aware when they gave the in-
formation that they didn't have to 
answer at all.

After the meeting with the lawyers, the 
six agreed that they would not have spoken 
to or tried to "evangelize" the agents, had 
they known of their rights.

Said one, "They seemed so reasonable 
that I guess I tried to convince them of my 
position."

After Monday's meeting with the 
lawyers, fifteen more people were visited 
by agents of the FBI. T}ley kept silent 
on resistance questions.

Ironically, according to Griffiths and 
Ayres, many stiH insisted on keeping up 
the charade of politeness and tried to 
respond in terms of normal social inter-
action. The agents themselves tried not to 
disrupt the social situation, remained 
polite for the most part, and assumed an 
an engaging middle-class manner.

"For middle class suspects like ours," 
write Griffiths and Ayres, "it seems that 
one of the fundamental rules is that one 
not be unnecessarily rude. Even after 
·the Monday meeting, in which the nature 
of the interrogator's job-and in partic-
ular the fact that it is a job-was dis-
cussed, the subjects remained largely 
unable to treat their encounter as an early 
stage in a formal, adversary legal 
process. For instance, one said to the 
gents, 'I believe I have a legal right not 
to answer questions, if you don't 
mind .... '"



**Title: Letters**
**Author: Various**
**Page number(s): 2-3**

To the Editors: 
As a longtime resident of Orange County 
I beg to be allowed to remark briefly on 
the article "The County That Made 
Ronald Reagan Possible" by Messrs. 
Mandelbaum and Weisman. First, I ques-
tion the authors' apparent belief that 
Orange County is peculiarly responsible 
for Governor Reagan's political promin-
ence. Certainly seven of ten county voters 
did vote for him in 1966, but so did a 
good many other Californians. After all, 
be did defeat the incumbent by nearly 
1,000,000 votes. Something more than a 
single county "made Ronald Reagan pos-
sible," and the implications of his political 
success are just beginning to unfold.

Second, I believe the authors were far 
from charitable in their devoting so little 
attention to the development of the Uni-
versity of California campus at Irvine 
with its proposed surrounding community. 
This is one of the most exciting planned 
community programs now being under-
taken in the country, and is potentially 
perhaps the most far-reaching. (1 com-
mend a short article in Saturday R~view, 
23 September 1967, by Myron Roberts, 
""lbe Making of a City," for details.) I 
would not be surprised if in the future the 
Irvine community has a much lonaer-
lasting and more penetrating effect on the 
life of Oranae County (and on the "Ameri-
can Dream" as well) than either Knott's 
Berry Farm's celebrations of the past or 
the Santa Ana Regisur's editorial policy. 
Stephen F . Treadaotd 
YaJeCoUeae


My compliments to Mrs. Braudy. She has 
written an excellent piece on Joe Heller 
(The New Journal, November 26, 1967). 
There was a chap in the office with us 
who did not like Heller. And vice versa. 
One day Heller brought in a carbon of his 
manuscript, asked if his sidekick would 
care to read it. Sidekick did, said it was 
awful. "I think so, too," Heller told him, 
"guess I'll just chuck it." That, however, 
was several days after the book had been 
accepted by Simon and Schuster.

I don't know if the story is true. I got 
it second hand. But it sounds like Joe. 
Herbert R. Mayes 
(Mr. Mayes, now editor-at-large for the 
Saturday Review, was editor of McCalfs 
when Heller worked for that magazine.)


I thought your readers might be interested 
in the answers to our Modern Library 50th 
Anniversary Contest--Sweepstake that 
we ran with you in October. Some con-
fusion resulted from an error on our part 
under David Levine's sketch number 7 
(James Joyce). There were three blanks 
for the titles of his books but there should 
have been only two, for Ulysses and The 
Dubliners. Taking the others in order, the 
answers are: 
· 1. Kierkegaard 
2. Honore de Balzac 
3. Lord Byron 
4. Fyodor Dostoyevsky 
5. OscarWilde 
6. Nietzsche 
8. Edgar Allen Poe 
9. AlbertCamus 
10. Jean Jacques Rousseau 
11. Joseph Conrad 
12. D. H. Lawrence 
13. Sigmund Freud 
14. Jean Genet 
15. John Dewey 
16. Sir Richard Burton 
17. Anton Chekhov 
18. Dante Alighieri 
19. Bernard Shaw 
20. William Faulkner 
21. Mark Twain 
22. Pushkin

We received about 5,500 entries which 
I think is pretty impressive considering 
that the contestants had to name 22 
authors from David Levine's caricatures-
also write out the titles of 59 of their 
books.

The winner of the Classic Phaeton Car 
was Miss Lyn Levenberg of Greenwich 
Village. She is, coincidentally, a writer. 
She was last seen beading south with the 
top down.

The second prize was won by Waverly 
Barbe, who is a professor at the Tuscaloosa 
State Colege in Tuscaloosa, Alabama. And 
the third prize was won by Conrad 
Discont. who is a Junior College Instructor 
in Fresno, California. The second and 
third prizes were a complete set of Mod-
em Library books (373). There were 21 
other winners from all over the country 
and remarkably enough 25% of the 
winners were from California. Could this 
mean that the intellectual center of 
America has shifted along with the 
population?

I shall leave you with this rather tragic 
thought to ponder. 
William H . Ryan 
Advertising Manaaer 
Random House. Inc. 





**A Night at Pleiku Airfield**
**Author: Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
41 The New Journal I February 4, 1968 
latest developments about our plane. But 
the sergeant from Pleiku sat in a kind of 
passive vacancy that being shepherded 
around in large groups eventually gives 
one. "1 never want to see this country 
again," he muttered. "All the boys feel 
the same. Any one of them can tell you to 
the second how much time they have left 
here." 

When I returned from another fruitless 
foray inside, the sergeant continued as 
if I hadn't been gone. "We've got to fight 
this war the way we want, or not at all. I 
think they should let us bomb with no 
restriction!>. Let's get this war over with 
or pull out." 

The corporal who had joined us for a 
breath of air agreed. "We got to get those 
Commies before they take over all of 
Asia," he declared in his western drawl. 
"And we got to do it ourselves. The 
Vietnamese are so dirty and lazy. They 
don't do anything for themselves. They 
don't care." 

At one in the morning there was still 
no plane. "I tell you not to worry, there'll 
be one tonight," the corporal kept insisting. 
"That cargo has to get to Saigon.'' 

Every half hour or so our hopes would 
rise. An unannounced Herky Bird would 
suddenly soar in through the blackness 
and settle down on the dark field. "That's 
not }Ours," the corporal would dismiss 
us each time. Once, when two of them 
came in together, we groped our way out 
on the airstrip to inquire for ourselves. 
One was on its way to Bangkok for sup-
plies, the other to the Philippines by way 
of Japan. It was easier to get out of the 
country that night than to Saigon. 

At 3 a.m. the major in charge of opera-
tions appeared. He was infuriated that 
one of his men. suposed to be on duty, 
was sleeping peacefully on a rear bench, 
an electric fan turned gently on his head. 
''I'll bust his rank tomorrow," the major 
fumed, as if the sleeping figure were 
responsible for the Herky Bird's nonap-
pearance. Then the major, composing him-
self, reassured us amiably about a plane. 
"I guarantee you one tonight," he said, 
and added meaningfully, "Our cargo must 
get out." 

By now it was beginning to register on 
us that our fate was inextricably tied up 
with the cargo. The corporal smiled know-
ingly in ans'Aer to the question. "It's the 
most valuable cargo we have," he said. 
"Which is?" 
"The K.IA's." 

It amused him that I didn't know what 
the KIA's were. "The Killed In Actions," 
he explained. "We got two of them that 
have to get out tonight. They have to make 
a special refrigerated plane that comes 
from CgJifornia to pick them up in Saigon 
and take them back to the States:· 

The corporal \\as enjoying the situa-
tion. "You're luck\·:· he teased us. "There 
are only two of them tonight. If there were 
.more than five you wouldn't be allowed 
on the plane at all. A correspondent flying 
with thirty-six last month took a picture 
of them piled up in their rubber bags. The 
crew grabbed the film and there was a big 
fuss in Saigon. Now the orders are that no 
civilians can fly with more than five KIA's 
at a time. And no pictures." 

"I wouldn't want to fly with even two of 
them," said the sergeant from Pleiku. ''The 
smell will make you sick." 

Again the silence, except for the droning 
of mosquitoes, as the corporal went about 
his business in the shed. I couldn't help 
thinking about those KIA's whose fates 
were suddenly linked with ours. What bad 
they known of this land and its people, did 
they know what they had died for, had 
they been counting their days to go home? 
A few hours ago they were one of us, now 
the}> were inert matter stuffed into rubber 
bags. secrets to be kept out of sight. The 
smell! could endure, but the spirits--
where were they? Neatly packaged too, or 
roaming about like angry Asian ghosts, 
seeking vengeance for having died in a 
cause that only words can solve? I felt a 
sense of terror of flying with those spirits 
through the black night sky. 

"We had sixty marines wiped out last 
week.'' said the sergeant from Pleiku, 
whose job it was to fuel the aircraft. "They 
came in fresh one day and we watched 
them step on those planes to go up to the 
demilitarized zone. The next day most of 
them were flown back to us-KIA's. Boy, 
that really broke us up." 

At 4 a.m. there was still no Herky Bird. 
A Negro sergeant, replacing the corporal 
on duty. urged us not to give up hope. 
"The KIA's always get out.'' he said, offer. 
ing us a cigarette. "I'm getting out too," 
he added with a smile. "But I"m not going 
back to the States. I haven't been there in 
five years. I'm getting my discharge from 
this army and I'm going to find me a job 
in Thailand or the Philippines. But they'D 
never get me back to Vietnam or the 
States." 

At 5 a.m. it fell upon the sergeant to in· 
form us of what we knew was inevitable. 
"There definitely will not be a plane any-
more," he said. "They just phoned that 
the only one they had to send broke doWD 
on takeoff." 

Then he continued as if to comfort u.s, 
"You know these planes get so much use. 
Eventually their parts just wear out and 
there just aren't enough spares to replace 
them all the time." 

I lay down on one of the outside benches 
to catch a few moment's sleep before 
dawn. At least the KIA's wouldn't know 
the Herky Bird had failed them. As for 
the rest of us, we could cling to the dismal 
hope that the Herky Bird would surely 
appear in the hot, merciless sky, gatherinJ 
up its dead, replacing them with more 
fresh recruits, and then continuing on its 
regularly scheduled circuit over South 
Vietnam. 


**Faculty and Graduate Students**

Faculty and graduate students 
As most of you know, The New 
Journal goes to all members of the 
Yale community; however we are 
discovering that we go to some mem-
bers two and even three times. 

The problem is this: no master lists 
were available which provided exact 
addresses for everybody associated 
with Yale, so we had to construct our 
address lists from a variety of sources. 
Thus, the duplication. 

Will you help us to eliminate the 
duplication by using the coupon 
below to Jet us know 
a) if you are receiving more than 
one copy of The New Journal 
in your household 
b) if you are receiving a copy at 
home in addition to the one you 
receive through Yale Station. 
Thank you. 
To: Th~ N~w Journal 
3432 Yale Station 
New Haven, Conn. 06520 
Please susp~nd this New Journal sub-
scription because 
0 my household already receives 1t under 
another name 
;:::; I alread)' receive a copy through Yak 
Stauoo. 
Name; 
Address: 


**Closing The Doors in New Haven**
**Author: Lawrence Lasker**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

5J'Ibe New Journal! February 4, 1968 
Closing The Doors in 
New Haven 
By Lawrence Lasker 
"If the doors of perception were cleansed 
nery thing would appear to man as il is, 
ilf/illile." 
William Blake 
'7'/w man who comes back through the 
Door in the Wall will never be quite the 
MtMtu the man who went out." 
Aldous Huxley, The Doors of Perception 
"lf1 tuearch, an opening of doors. We're 
117ing to break through to a cleaner, purer 
rtllllm.'' 
Jim Morrison 
• •• • 1ol thought, let's get some music, or 
llt11top this stuff." 
Lieutenant 1 ames Kelly 
During the intermission of one of The 
Doors' first concerts in the San Francisco 
area, in the fall of 1966,lead singer Jim 
Morrison met a pretty girl with long dark 
hair and a very white face. 

They began to talk, and Morrison sug-
gested they find a quiet place away from 
the stifling crowd of The Matrix. The two 
discovered a vacant apartment house down 
the street where they could be alone until 
the next set of songs. The girl sat quietly 
and watched Morrison as he paced across 
the barren floor. He stood at the window 
looking out at the dark street, without 
saying a word. Then he turned to her 
quickly and startled her with the tone of 
his voice. "We're going to take over." 

He looked at her almost fiercely. "We're 
going to take over!" She believed him. 

Whether The Doors will "take over" 
is open to debate; whether New Haven 
will be the spearhead for the movement 
is quite another question, and the answer 
to that is almost surely a flat no. Such, at 
least, would be the opinion of the New 
Haven Police Department. On December 
9, 1967, officers ·of that force, after less 
than an hour of a Doors' concert in the 
New Haven Arena, suddenly hauled 
Morrison from the stage, setting off in the 
process a spontaneous eruption of protest 
from the 2000 people in the auditorium, 
and subsequently charged him with in-
decent and immoral exhibition, breach of 
peace, and resisting arrest. 

The New Haven Arena, often used as a 
skating rink, is a large, ugly building not 
far from the Yale campus. For a benefit 
concert in the Arena on Saturday, 
December 9, the New Haven College 
Interfraternity Council topped off a bill of 
local rock-and-roll groups with The Doors, 
an import from Southern California that 
takes its name from The Doors of Percep-
tion, Aldous Huxley's book about the 
drug experience. The Doors have pro-
duced two million-dollar-selling albums 
in their two-and-a-half year career; and 
their single, "Light My Fire," was the 
top-selling song in 1967 in many areas 
of the nation, including New Haven. The 
Doors describe themselves as "erotic 
politicians." And, says lead singer and 
songwriter Jim Morrison, who became 
thoroughly grounded in Antonio 
Artaud's Theater of Cruelty while a stu-
dent at UCLA: "We are in transition now. 
But just wait. We will soon be in theater, 
real drama. With dancers, singers, and a 
story plot. That'll be real drama." 

Their concert at the New Haven Arena 
turned out to be a drama in its own right, 
but instead of dancers, there were cops, 
and the story plot was not exactly the one 
Morrison would have written. The first 
incident occurred while the Doors were 
still backstage, as the crowd outside, 
mostly junior and senior high school 
students, was impatiently listening to the 
two hours of local talent. 

Officer Arthur Baker, one of fifteen 
patrolmen stationed inside the building, 
received a complaint from one of the on-
stage groups that a strange man was in 
the shower area of their dressing room 
with a girl. According to Baker, when be 
went to investigate he found the man and 
the girl "embracing and so forth." Not 
knowing that the mao was Jim Morrison, 
Baker ordered him to leave the area. When 
Morrison resisted ("he used four-letter 
words"), Baker reached into his pocket, 
took out a can of MACE, a stinging gas 
recently developed for convenient riot 
control, and squirted Morrison in the face. 

--- Page 6 ---

6J The New Journal! February 4, 1968 
Officer Baker was joined by Lt. James 
Kelly, the man in charge of the police 
detail at the Arena. They were leading 
the infuriated singer down the hall when 
the Doors' booking agent, along with 
organist Ray Manzarek, heard Morrison 
yelling and went into the hall to see what 
the trouble was. When they saw the police-
men leading Morrison away, the two 
pleaded with the police to stop the arrest. 
Manzarek explained to Baker and Kelly 
that the man in their custody was Jim 
Morrison, and if they arrested him there 
was a possibility that the waiting crowd 
would riot. Morrison was allowed to go 
into the Doors' dressing room while the 
booking agent explained to Lt. Kelly that 
"the man is under an emotional strain. 
He can either be classified as a genius, 
or else as a mental patient. He's in a world 
of his own." 

Kelly later recounted what happened 
next: "1 went into their dressing room. 
Mr. Morrison was sitting down, strumming 
his guitar. He immediately offered me his 
hand, and I accepted it. He apologized. 
He was like a little boy who had stole 
some candy, very different from before. 
He was under an emotional strain, he said, 
and asked me to let the incident go by. 
He seemed sincere. Since we were there 
to see no one gets hurt, I decided to forget 
the whole thing." 

A local radio DJ came on stage and 
seized one of the microphones. "And 
now, here they are ... the group you've 
all been waiting for ... I am proud to 
present ... The Doors!" A burst of ap-
plause, girls shrieked. No one appeared. 
The DJ glanced at his watch while the 
audience lapsed into silence. He consulted 
with someone behind the curtain, again 
approached the mike and requested that 
the lights be turned down. 

"And now, here they are ... the group 
you've.all been waiting for ... I am proud 
to present ... The Doors!" he repeated 
with equal gusto. Applause again as 
Manzarek entered and walked slowly to 
the organ-bass. Following him were 
guitarist Krieger and drummer Densmore. 
Krieger tuned his electric guitar for a few 
minutes. When he finished the audience 
fell silent, waiting. 

The curtains parted a foot or two. The 
2000 people whispered as two eyes peered 
out from the curtains, then cheered as a 
thin figured dressed in skin-tight black 
leather walked very slowly out and stopped 
behind the drummer. Morrison was smil-
ing like a child. After a minute he walked 
to the microphone near the edge of the 
stage. 

He threw something into the crowd, 
then he just stood there staring at the thin 
spotlight trained on him. He stuck his 
finger into his mouth, and drew it out 
slowly, still smiling. He leaned back 
from the mike and closed his eyes. 

Suddenly Morrison lunged forward 
and screamed the opening words of 
"Break on Through" and the instruments 
joined him loudly. "You know the day 
destroys the night, night divides the day: 
try to run, try to hide, Break on through 
to the other side, break on through to the 
other side!" Morrison strained to heave 
out the chorus, reeled back and forth, 
then sprang to the edge of the stage, 
tottered, spun like a ballet dancer, and 
stopped abruptly to hypnotize the audience 
with a long stare. He reminded one of a 
caged cat: his shoulder-length hair, his 
mane. And the music was just right, a 
smooth mixture of blues, hot acid, and 
something undefinable. Smooth, but not 
sterile: like Morrison, it spun, pounded, 
twisted into itself, then screamed to a 
sudden silence. 

One cop, looking, staring at Morrison, 
commented to a Life reporter, "He's sort 
of strange, isn't he? I don't like the way he 
dresses. Whatever happened to the clean-
cut guys, like Tony Bennett or Elvis 
Presley?" 

"Break on Through" ended and the 
longer, more intricate "When the Music's 
Over" took its place. Sanity had now 
left, and The Doors had taken its place. 
When the music's over, 
Turn out the lights. 
Well, music is your special friend 
Dance on fire as it intends 
Music is your only friend 
Until the end 
Until the end! 

And now Morrison began to improvise, 
as 2000 pairs of. eyes fixed on him: . 
''I'm playing a game, inside my brain, 
and the name of the game is going insane." 
The audience held its breath. "Five in 
one, one out of five, no one here gets out 
alive ... The old get older, but the young 
get stronger, well it might take a week and 
it might take longer." The dozen police-
men standing below either side of the 
stage shifted nervously and fixed their 
eyes on the audience. One fingered his belt 
"They've got the guns, but we've got the 
numbers. They've got the guns but we've 
got the numbers!" Morrison crouched, 
staring at a policeman. "We want the world 
and we want it .... now ....... now? 
............ NOW! !"he screamed and 
the organ, bass, guitar, and drums joined 
in an orgasmic crescendo. The rest of the 
song was played out and the police began 
to relax. Then, without warning, Morrison 
threw the microphone stand off the plat-
form. It clanged to the floor near some 
photographers crouched at the base of the 
stage. The police quickly cleared them 
away. 

Then ·~Alabama Song," written by Kurt 
Weill, which The Doors have darkened 
to their own image . 
. . . If we don't find the next little girl 
I tell you we must die 
I tell you 
I tell you we must die! 

And before the audience could forget 
the impact of the words, "Alabama Song" 
had flowed into "Back Door Man." "I am: 
sang Morrison, "the back door man. The 
men don't know, but the little girls under· 
stand." With the mike in his hand, be 
again conversed with the audience. 

His remarks were rather sexual. " Open 
up, baby, spread 'em wide, come on baby, 
I'm coming inside." He rubbed the mike 
cord through his crotch, back and forth, 
back and forth to the music. 

The police were motionless. Morrison 
crouched and hid his face. "Nobody loves 
me. Nobody loves me ... But I loves ya. 
That's my thing, I loves ya, so why don't 
you come on up here and let me do my 
thing? It's just you and me, baby, nobodY 
else counts." 

A young girl came forward to the edge 
of the stage. "/ love you,'' she said. The 
police hesitated, then five of them rushed 
forward and persuaded the girl to return 
to her seat. Some of the audience glanced 
at the police nervously, but the police did 
not attempt to stop the concert. Morrison 
pointed at one policeman, laughing. "He 
loves me. Yeah." 

Meanwhile, backstage, Lt. Kelly was 
receiving complaints from some parents 



**Title: The Doors in New Haven**
**Author: Lawrence Lasker**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
who did not like what Morrison was say-
ing but he decided to postpone action. 
"Let's get some music, or let's stop this 
stuff," he decided, and he tried to talk to 
the drummer from behind the curtains. 
"Oh, no, I can't do a thing with him," 
Densmore replied, and continued to keep 
beat. 

The next song was the longest; it was 
also the last. For fifteen minutes, with-
in the framework of "Love Me Two 
Times," sometimes singing, more often 
talking, Morrison slowly recounted the 
shower-room incident when "the Man, 
you know him, dressed in a pretty little 
blue uniform with bright brass buttons, 
yeah, you know who I mean," sprayed 
him in the eyes with MACE. 
"I just have to tell you this," Morrison 
said. "To get it off my chest." Audience 
staring, silent. "Here I am with this girl, 
you know, just a friend of mine, and 
we're in this dressing room. Only it's 
actually a shower." Lt. Kelly began to 
consult with other police officers. Baker, 
the officer who found Morrison in the 
dressing room, watched Morrison care-
fully. Kelly disappeared backstage. 
Morrison continued his story, while the 
rest of The Doors kept playing softly. 
The song ended. Morrison consulted with 
Manzarek about the next number as the 
audience shouted out requests. 

Suddenly the house lights were turned 
on. Morrison squinted at the brightness 
and sat down on the drums, demanding 
that the lights be turned off. Lt. Kelly 
appeared from behind the curtains and 
announced that "the show's over, boys." 
As he approached the shouting singer and 
tapped him on the shoulder, Morrison 
stood, turned to him slowly, still shouting, 
and then handed him the microphone. 
Policemen rushed on stage, including 
Baker, who later explained, "People come 
to listen to music, not to that stuff. We 
couldn't let it continue." The police 
grabbed Morrison as flash bulbs exploded, 
and they dragged him behind the curtains. 
More police bustled the other three Doors 
offstage. 

The impact on the audience was im-
mediate. Some rushed screaming to the 
stage in an attempt to follow Morrison, 
others broke through the guarded exits 
backstage where they witnessed several 
police dragging him down the corridor. 
"For crying out loud, would you leave my 
hair alone!" Morrison shouted, trying to 
kick himself free. "I'm not going to fight." 
He was forced out the door, led through 
the dark, muddy parking lot, and placed 
in a police wagon which took him to the 
station a few blocks away. 

At the Arena, the police used MACE 
and force to subdue the angered crowd. 
Several people were arrested for resisting 
the police, including five or six minors 
and three reporters. Tim Page, a free-
lance photographer working for Life, tried 
to photograph some police "roughing up" 
a boy outside the Arena, but was stopped 
by what he later said was a slug from one 
policeman that sent him reeling into the 
street. As Page and Yvonne Chabrier, 
another Life reporter, tried to explain that 
they had press passes, Officer Charles 
LeGrand shouted, "I don't care who you 
are," and arrested them along with Village 
Voice jazz critic Michael Zwerin. After 
a thorough search, LeGrand placed them 
in a paddy wagon, which took them to 
the police station, where they were locked 
up in temporary cells. (On January 23, 
they pleaded not guilty on all three ac-
counts: breach of peace, resisting arrest, 
and interfering with an officer.) Outside 
the police station later on the night of the 
concert, an estimated 40 youths gathered 
to protest Morrison's arrest; he was 
released from his temporary cell early 
Sunday morning on $1500 bail. 

During the next few days, several 
rumors about the arrest were circulated 
by people who could not believe that the 
charges of indecent and immoral exhibi-
tion were authentic. Some suspected that 
drugs were found on the Doors' equipment 
backstage. "Well, I heard some talk about 
heroin being backstage," said Lt. Kelly 
the next Monday; "but I was unable to 
find out anything about it." Upon hearing 
other rumors, Kelly responded, "Look. 
Anybody can be a Monday-morning 
quarterback. But at the time, I thought that 
what I decided to do--to turn the lights 
on and stop the show-was the best deci-
sion." 

Trial was set for January 2, and then 
postponed until January 16, at which 
time Morrison didn't bother to show up, 
thus forfeiting $1500 bail. The reasons 
Morrison didn't appear were explained in 
advance by Ray Manzarek, the Doors' 
organist. "We don't especially want to 
show up in New Haven, if you know what 
I mean," Manzarek told an interviewer in 
Los Angeles in early January. "We wanted 
to sue, but there are more creative things 
we want to do with our time, like records 
and movies and TV shows." If Morrison 
does cross into Connecticut within the 
next year, he will be subject to re-arrest for 
the same charges. 

The entire drama of the concert in 
New Haven continues to remain something 
of a mystery to The Doors. "The charges 
are ridiculous," said Manzarek. "I will 
swear on the gospel that there was no 
obscenity-maybe some muffled sounds 
and some screams, which could be con-
strued to be obscene--but I know what 
Jim's obscenity is like, and he wasn't 
obscene. But you see, we're singing about 
the image of darkness. It's okay to sing 
about the light, airy, bright side, but you 
have to have an equal balance by the 
dark side. That's deep down, the darkness, 
the madness. All the changes that take 
place in people take place in the dark 
side. The audience was great, they were 
digging us. But the police ... " He shook 
his head and then laughed. 
Lawrence Lasker, an undergraduate in 
Yale College, lives in Los Angeles.


**Title: Blows His Mind**
**Author: Ernest Lockridge**
**Page number(s): 9**

blows his mind 
© 1968 by Ernest Lockridge. All rights 
reserved. This book, or any portion 
thereof, may not be reproduced in 
any form without written permission from 
the publishers, The New American Li-
brary, Inc.

34-year-old untenured teacher of 
English, unable to finish his 
dissertation, delivers that he can from his 
window look out on the graduate 
students, and more particularly on two 
of them, Cynthia Potter and Diana Lou Moon, 
spending the fall semester undressing 
themselves. Hartspring now finds that he 
is more involved with voyeurism with 
significantly more intensity than his struggles to come 
to grips with his debts, his complaining but 
loving wife, his three children, and that 
damned dissertation. 

He tangles with fearsome 
characters like Yoke, who is fashioning 
a bizarre cult of tape recordings; Hardin, the 
head of the campus police who's on a 
witch hunt campaign against communists and 
perverts, and a small assortment of other 
oddball types. 

Hartspring is the hero of a new novel, 
Blows His Mind, by Ernest Lockridge, 
assistant professor of English at 
. This is the first novel by Lockridge, 
the son of the author of 
County. 

What follows is Chapter 9. In 
the preceding chapter, Hartspring has just-
after the malicious offices of Yoke-met 
Cynthia Potter:

"I hope to see you again soon, Miss Potter!"
"Don't worry, honey!" she shouted back. 
"I will."

And I did. With a new fury and a new 
wrinkle, Blondie exposed herself to me. 
The new wrinkle was Yoke. For while I sat 
in my office and watched impotently out 
the window, while the new and fearsome 
pain in my rectum appeared to grow 
stronger and stronger, Yoke had scaled 
the nunnery wall to Blondie's room, and 
on Fridays, Saturdays, and Sundays (the 
only part of the week men were allowed 
to invade the crystal palace) in an awesome 
display of sexual athletics, the pair of them 
broadcast Yoke's incubistic self-imposi-
tion upon the world and Blondie's hatred 
of men. I mean that seriously about 
Blondie: never in my life-not even dur-
ing my forays into Yokohama dives during 
the Police Action to watch what must 
have been Lesbians-have I seen a woman 
display such apocalyptic contempt for the 
act of love. By her lewdness, she meta-
morphosed life into death. And as the life-
giving seed grew steadily in my own dear 
Mona's womb, I felt what I feared was 
cancer filling my rectum with destruction. 

All along, now, I've been boring hell 
out of you whining and complaining about 
how miserable my life has been. But look-
ing back, I think maybe this was the worst 
time of all. Poor Hartspring. Dear reader, 
shed a tear. Winter had settled in good, 
and it was a raw, miserable winter. Snow 
plopped from the grim sky, and demonic 
winds blew it onto every eave, every cor-
ner, every windowcrack. When I trembled 
out into the grisly mornings and futilely 
attempted to start our ageing Henry J, 
I was forced to freeze my balls on a thin 
blanket of snow which the wind had 
blasted through the windows, settling it 
over the carseat like radioactive dust. 

When God grew weary of snow, He 
brightened His life with freezing rain. 
The icy glue stuck lids to their garbage 
cans. Stray dogs huddled in doorways of 
buildings wheezing out green clouds of 
breath. Even pigeons grew scarce, as if 
they had awakened one morning under 
the eaves and found their feet frozen to 
the guttering, their beaks paralyzed in mid-
coo, the whole gigantic network of their 
bowels constipated like the coils of a 
Frigidaire. 

And I, brooding above the mystery of 
my own bowels, stared from my office 
window across the frozen void at the 
winsome antics of Cynthia Potter with 
her Yoke-stared as Danton must have 
stared in grisly fascination at Madame 
Guillotine looming now for him-and 
thought furiously about death. 

There they stood one winter evening 
in mid-December, before Cynthia Potter's 
lighted window (Blondie's curtains had 
been drawn now for several days), each 
with a freshly mixed cocktail in hand, 
laughing, chatting gaily with Yuletide 
Spirit, both nude-Blondie bent like a 
mare, her hair wound in Yoke's free right 
hand, while Yoke like a stallion skillfully 
and interminably demonstrated the 
mechanics of erotic position number five. 
And I, too, though more abstractly, con-
sidered the mechanics of screwing. What 
-God forbid!-if it were cancer growing 
slowly in my rectum, a deadly little chunk 
of anarchic gristle? I remember when I 
was very young an aunt on my mother's 
side who for six months complained of 
shooting pains in her bowels and constipa-
tion before finally submitting to the atten-
tion of a doctor-of all people, my father. 
Who promptly plunked her in the hospital 
for exploratory surgery. One evening 
perhaps a week after my poor aunt died 
and we were finishing a dinner of steak 
and lima beans, Pop asked suddenly if 
Mother or I had any idea what cancer 
looked like. I guess Pops was a diabolical 
cuss and, as I later gleaned from my 
mother's drunken ramblings, a satyro-
maniac like me before he took to soothing 
his nerves with morphine. "For heaven's 
sake, Seymore. Is that anything to ask 
during dinner?"

"Son, look into that bowl."

I did. Inside were a few leftover limas 
getting dry and crusty.

"When I cut Aunty open," Doctor 
Hartspring said, "her guts were chock full 
of little pieces of gristle that looked just 
like those lima beans."

"Oh, Seymore, how can you?" Mother 
rushed from the table crying, and dear old 
Dad shouted after her:

"Well goddamn it, you've got other 
sisters I like one hell of a lot better! Clean 
your plate, son."

Sitting there watching Yoke and Cynthia 
in conversation, I imagined a whole bean-
patch growing down there in me-and 
what it would be like if I finally went to a 
doctor, and he cut it out but was forced 
to close up my rectum and shoot a piece 
of gut out my abdomen near my prick so I 
could now and then take a crap! What 
would I do? "Doc, while you're at it, just 
cut off my prick." What woman could 
stand me now? Even my missing teeth 
would no longer be an enticement. Could 
my dear Mona bear taking her solace with 
a man whose intestine protruded from his 
belly and was fastened together with a 
little plasticene clamp? How would I go 
about breaking wind? I could see myself 
on a bus or subway with the chunk of in-
testine swelling up under my belt like a 
helium balloon. Nightmares! And finally 
exploding and all the windows suddenly 
looking like your windshield when a semi-
trailer passes you on a slushy turnpike. 

After such an operation, I'd be forced to 
buy my Yokohama manual and learn all 
I could about Yoke's fancy-dan tactics. No 
more rubbing together of warm bellies. 
No more those firm breasts, those taut 
nipples swelling against my chest! Those 
maddening hot looks into each other's eyes. 
And no more those soft arms pinioning 
my neck, those deep kisses during the act 
of love. I'd have to transform myself into 
a goddamn plumber, a pipefitter. No! 
Better death! I resolved to keep the whole 
thing under my tail, so to speak-keep 
my suspicions from Mona and, most im-
portant, from all knife-wielding physicians, 
and, alas, live alone with my terror. 

During the last week before my univer-
sity began its Christmas holiday, I heard 
noises on the roof of my building right 
above my office-little scufflings and 
scrapings. Once while Yoke and Blondie 
were being particularly vigorous, I heard 
above me what seemed to be the muted 
whimper of a rabbit caught in the fangs of 
a hunter's trap. Even when the wind 
howled and sleet battered my glass, the 
noises persisted. 

Finally the evening just before vacation, 
I once again called Holmann away from 
his typewriter; we donned our coats, and 
together we made our way gingerly up the 
frozen fire escape outside Holmann's office 
window to the roof. 

At the rear of Blondie's brightly lit 
cubbyhole, Yoke had Cynthia Potter 
smack against the wall in what, for him, 
was an orthodox position, and Cynthia 
herself was looking over his shoulder at 
the window, an extremely bored expression 
under her teased blonde hair. 

On the roof near a tall brick chimney, 
a shabbily dressed young man stuffed a 
handkerchief into his coat pocket, lifted his 
face to the sky, and pretended not to 
notice that Holmann and I had just caught 
him with his pants down. Snow was falling, 
and its glare spotlighted the young man 
eerily. He wore a stocking cap. Though 
his coat was bulky and quilted, it appeared 
obvious that he was a fat boy. Unsnapped 
boots flapped away from his lower legs, 
and as Holmann and I approached him he 
stuck one hand into his coat to fasten 
his fly.

"Santa Claus is early," I said. "I heard 
the patter and pawing of his hoofs. Ho ho 
ho. What are you doing up here?"

"Wise guy or something?" the boy shot 
back. He was perhaps nineteen. Acne 
pitted his face. "What the hell business 
is it of yours?"

Holmann stayed behind. He had just 
seen Blondie and Yoke for the first time, 
and I thought he was going to tumble off 
the roof.

"Are you a student?" I asked.

"I was," he replied sullenly.

"Do you usually climb up on top of 
roofs during a snowstorm?"

"Look, what is this? The Gestapo? 
Can't a guy catch a little air if he wants 
to?"

Yoke must have finished. Blondie, nude, 
sauntered over to her window and closed 
the drapes.

"Now you listen to me," I said. "We're 
having trouble with voyeurists around 
here. Do you know what that means? 
Peepers, peeping toms."

"What in heaven's name are you imply-
ing?" asked the boy with forced dignity.

"I'm not implying anything. I just want 
to give you fair warning. The police know 
what's going on and they're on the lookout. 
I don't know what you were doing up here 
and I don't care. All I know is that to 
some people it might look suspicious. And 
I think that if you want to keep out of 
jail you'd better just march down that fire 
escape and run home the quickest route 
you know. Go on. Scram."

I could see the boy was about ready to 
cry. Still he didn't move. He looked into 
my face a moment, then began in a half-
sob, "What's the matter with people any-
way? How have I ever hurt them that they 
should do these things to me? Look at me, 
Mister. I'm ugly. I've never had a woman 
in my whole life. I've never even kissed 
one, and I probably never will as long as 
I live. But I go into the drugstore and 
what's the first thing I see? A whole rackful 
of magazines full of girls who aren't wear-
ing anything. Hundreds and thousands of 
naked girls, beautiful girls who are willing 
to take their clothes off just to be photo-
graphed, and there's not even one of them 
for me. Not one. You know what I've 
heard? There are even beautiful girls who 
take off their clothes and do it with a man 
so somebody can make a movie of it. I've 
got a good-looking pal who says there 
isn't a girl in the world won't go down with 
somebody. And then just a week ago, I'm 
walking along and I look up, and there's 
two people doing it in the window before 
they move back into the room. What am 
I supposed to do? Keep walking?"

"You're breaking my heart," I said.

"I'm leaving," the boy said. "It makes 
me want to kill myself. I really mean it."

He waddled to the fire escape and soon 
disappeared beneath the level of the roof.

Holmann had not moved. He stood 
transfixed looking at the glow from 
Blondie's closed drapes. Finally he gasped,
"I won't be able to sleep for a month."



**The New Journal Meeting**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The New Journal offers you the chance to take 
a responsible part in the challenge and excite-
ment of publishing a quality magazine. Positions 
are open in the fields of writing, advertising, 
design, promotion, photography, and business 
management. Whatever your particular interest, 
school, class, or previous experience, we'd like 
to meet with you: February 5, 7 pm at 
50 Silliman College. 

Meeting for those interested 
in.The New Journal 
February 5,at7 pm 
at 50 Silliman College 
Friday, February 2


**Yale Film Society Announcements**

D. W. Griffith's 
THE STRUGGLE (1931) 
Griffith's last and perhaps greatest film, dealing 
with the cataclysmic struggles of an alcoholic. 
Unavailable for over 30 years. 
Yale Film 
Society 
Tuesday, February 6 
Josef Von Sternberg's 
THE BLUE ANGEL (1930) 
Marlene Dietrich, Emil Jannings 
Dietrich plays her most famous role, Lola-Lola the 
cabaret singer, in this early Sternberg classic of 
depravity and doom. 
Saturday, February 10 
OHo Preminger's 
ADVISE AND CONSENT (1962} 
Charles Laughton, Henry Fonda, Gene Tierney, 
Walter Pidgeon, Peter Lawford, Don Murray 
A dispassionate look at a Congressional 
investigation; an outstanding film by a controversial 
director. 


**Untitled**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

What am I supposed to do now?" 
"Go back to your office," I said, "and 
pound away at your book. I'm going 
home." 

With the wind, the snow, the freezing 
cold, I should have been icebound even 
through my coat. But I wasn't. I was flam-
ing hot with shame-for Yoke and 
Blondie, for Holmann, for the fat boy, but 
most of all for my repulsive, disgusting 
self. Go ahead and die, Hartspring. Turn 
into a big beanshaped chunk of gristle. It's 
the best thing by far. For I saw in Yoke a 
gross, animal stupidity which masqueraded 
as the diabolical cunning of intelligence. 
He, who apparently believed he acted 
with purpose according to some tran-
scendent ideal of art in a vicious universe, 
who even employed "advanced tech-
nology" to gain his ends, had in reality no 
purpose and no ends beyond the malicious 
exploitation of the moment. Up there in 
Blondie's window, forcing the life-giving 
act to destroy life, Yoke seemed controlled 
by a madness (hideous in someone so 
young) which subverted what intelligence 
he possessed. While I-who seemed pas-
sively caught in his trap-was in fact solely 
responsible for setting that trap and for-
cing the recalcitrant mechanism until it 
worked. I was ashamed of Yoke's insanity 
which he could perhaps not control. But 
I felt more shame and terror for my self-
willed collaboration in it: as if this weird 
bond revealed the best and worst in us all, 
a Jove of creation inseparably coupled with 
a crazed lust for death. 

Santa Claus brought the Hartsprings a 
meager Christmas. It might have been 
Jess meager had the fuel company not 
stopped delivering oil for nonpayment of 
bill. One morning shortly before Christ-
mas, I had just awakened and my nerves 
were transmitting my body's usual morn-
ing reflex of sliding across the bed toward 
Mona and taking a little Creature· Comfort 
-when I discovered that I could not move. 
I was naked, as usual. As usual, Mona had 
pulled all the covers off me in her sleep. 
But for a pleasant change, the temperature 
in the room must have dropped to thirty 
degrees. I was frozen stiff. My nerves could 
not even send blood racing to my prick, 
and it lay there like Old Dog Tray on his 
master's grave. At least I could move my 
eyeballs; for several minutes, without 
glasses (for the moisture on my eyeballs 
must have frozen to lenses), I scanned all 
the spots where paint was flaking from 
our ceiling-until it dawned on me that I 
was slowly freezing to death. I tried to 
holler out. My tongue felt like a dead clam, 
and my jaws had rusted like the Tin 
Woodsman's of Oz. But I did manage to 
croak, "Mo-na." 

"Mmmf," Mona grunted. I heard her 
stirring. I was beyond feeling anything. 
"Mo-na." 

Mona began mumbling. Listening hard, 
I made out something like, "Hartspring, 
I need some new dresses. All my old ones 
are rotting at the armpits. Santa, my 
children need warm sweaters. All my 
panties have holes in them. My husband 
never lets me sleep. We can't afford an-
other baby . .. " 

"Mo ... na." 

"What-? Time'st?" 

Her big, warm, lucky body rustled 
around a few moments beneath the covers. 
A shadow appeared in my right eye. Then 
suddenly Mona's sleep-swollen face was 
hanging directly over mine and she was 
looking into my eyes. "What the hell is 
wrong with you?" 

I could not be certain, but I thought 
one of her hands might be exploring my 
body for rigor mortis. 

"Hartspring! Are you dead?" 

I rolled my eyeballs. My jaw would no 
longer move. Even my vision began to 
dim, and I knew what it must be like to 
stare up through the surface of a frozen 
pond at the sky. Something big seemed 
to hit me. And as the writers of detective 
stories used to say, everything went black. 

My next sensation was a hundred mil· 
lion little needles pricking me everywhere. 
My eyes were open. Perhaps they were 
open all the time, only now I was beginning 
to see again. I must have moved, beca'\JSe 
Mona said, "It's about time, damn it. 
You're like cuddling up against Frosty the 
Snowman." 

Then at last through all the needles I felt 
Mona's soft, naked body, and I was over 
the hump, fished like Houdini out of the 
hole in the ice; I began to warm up fast. 

Why did King David want those young 
female bodies flush against him in his old 
age to keep him warm? If ever it did occur 
to me to ask, I'll never ask again. And 
even you, Rimmler, with your chaste 
theories about unthawing frozen soldiers-
if only in the interests of science and 
health, I'll ask the world to forgive you a 
little. Because in five minutes Mona was 
breathing bard into my left ear, the blood 
had once again begun to rush, and Hart-
spring was still a man. 

"Oh oh. The kids!" I cried. 

"They're all right," sighed Mona. 

"But we've got to see!" 

"Please, Hartspring. Don't quit now. 
... Maybe you're not cured yet .... The 
kids are all right .... Their room is always 
cold .... They sleep in thermal under-
wear .... They aren't-stupid like you ... 
Hartspring." 

Later that morning, fully delivered and 
strutting like Chanticleer in spite of 
my fears of death, I managed to start our 
Henry J, piloted it to the fuel company 
office, and asked for the manager. 

"We were just trying to punish you," be 
said. "You haven't paid your bill for three 
months." 

Ruffling my plumage, I said, ''There's 
nothing immoral about owing money. 
Debtor's prison was abolished long ago. 
But there is something sinister and evil 
about trying, as you have done, to freeze 
three helpless children to death, not to 
mention my wife and myself." 

"But-" 

"You shut off service without so much 
as a hint to warn us." 

"But, sir, you could have checked your 
gauge." 

"When I went into my children's room 
this morning, they were so cold they 
couldn't even move." Actually they were 
in covers up to their ears and warm as 
toast. "Do you know how cold it was last 
night? It got down to five above zero. Five 
above zero! And I've got three kids and 
we must not have had any heat at all after 
eight in the evening. I'm a sick man, and 
my wife is pregnant. Twelve hours with· 
out heat before we woke up and dis-
covered what was wrong. Do you realize 
what can happen to a child when he kickS 
off his covers and lies there for hours in a 
room five above zero? He's lucky if he 
doesn't freeze to death. Well, you're the 
lucky one. The doctor says they'll live. 
But he also says I've got a perfect right to 
sue you for all you're worth, or at least 
~ 
report you to the Better Business Bureau. 
And on and on. 

We finally settled for payment of one 
back month, and they resumed service 


--- Page 11 ---

immediately. But only one month took 
most of our Christmas cash. So Christmas 
morning around our fir was pretty bleak 
("Daddy, why didn't I get my Luger that 
shoots real caps?" "Daddy, why didn't I get 
my pelletgun so I can kill starlings?"). And 
New Year's was bleak, since we had not 
been invited to any parties and could not 
have afforded a babysitter anyway. But 
most bleak of all was the end of vacation 
and having to return to my office, to my 
classes, to my show girls who were back 
from their warm, cheery homes (I assume 
even Blondie and Brownie had parents), 
back with their torturers' whips oiled and 
ready once again to flay the back of Hart-
spring, who returned to uninterrupted 
thoughts of his impending doom. 

That is, Blondie was back, and Yoke. 
And weekends, they resumed flailing away 
until I sometimes saw, or thought I saw, 
the whole building vibrating back and 
forth, up and down. And yet their utter 
nonchalance! They even began putting 
their clothes back on in front of me, and 
for what it's worth, I noticed a pattern: 
Yoke always puts on his shirt first, before 
anything else, and the first thing Blondie 
always put on were her nylons. The pattern 
never changed. What did begin to change, 
~ however, was the relish with which they 
went about their act. Even before Christ-
mas holidays, I could tell that Blondie 
was becoming bored by it all; but now 
even Yoke appeared to be losing taste. 

It became more and more obvious that 
they were just trying to get it out of the 
way. You knew from their faces they were 
thinking, What a chore! Like the per-
formers I once saw in a stag movie at a 
friend's bachelor party: we were going 
wild, but you could tell that for them it 
was just a job. Once or twice Yoke even 
l'aOrted to the Old Standby-perhaps be-
cause that was the only position left which 
offered, even remotely, the promise of 
llpice. Toward the end of January, they'd 
come into the room, take off their clothes, 
tben shrug as if it were just too much, get 
dressed again, and leave. Finally, they did 
DOt even remove their clothes; they sat 
around, they talked, they drank, and 
SOinetimes Yoke would fool with some 
sort of device-I could not make out 
Jlrec:isely what-at the back of the room. 

One afternoon they even smiled to 
acknowledge my presence, and waved. Of 
COUrse I smiled back. But I knew that, 
having wearied of this phase in his little 
plot, Yoke would now devise another. I 
hoped it would be a good one. I was a tired 
Dian. I was in pain: my "cancer" not only 
bun now, it itched so much I writhed. 
I Wanted something definite to happen. 

And Brownie? Well, she was back, too, 
~gh not so violently back as her friend. 
ercurtains were open again. After the 
~tion, whenever she was in her room 
~appeared to spend much time lounging 
~nude, mooning around, sipping 
Coi n book. Her Christmas present from 
ntreau, and leafing through a large 
home? As you know, I had long felt 
Brownie to be a softer, more gentle spirit 
than her friend, perhaps motivated not so 
~~by the desire to destroy as by a 
~lfected desire to please. This impres-
~as 
strengthened by the contrast be-
·--o what occurred in the two windows. 
~in January while Yoke and Cynthia 
~were still rigorously developing 
_.voluntary muscles, Cynthia's 
~ie 
would at the same time be re-
~~ 
on the bed, reading, studying, 
~~ing, leafing through her brown 
-.&ner book. A sentimental brown study 
herself. She would even look up from time 
to time and flutter dove-eyes at me, senti-
mental dariing, though when I gestured 
recognition, she looked away. Was she 
privy to her friend's antics? I had never 
seen a man in Brownie's room. For that 
matter, I no longer saw Blondie there 
either.lf I had at least some acquaintance 
with the sad soul of Cynthia Potter, the 
soul of my brown-haired beauty-with 
the possible exception of Hubert's night on 
the Green-remained mysterious to me 
like the contents of her brown book. 

Sentimental Hart$pring! have you no 
toughmindedness in reserve to save your 
soul? 

Near the end of February when the 
cold weather was just beginning to abate, 
I sat in the undergraduate reserve room 
mugging up notes on Ezra Pound's first 
Canto so I could teach it with at least the 
appearance of understanding to my sem-
inar. The room was long and narrow with 
an enormously high ceiling. Individual 
stalls jammed side by side, and smoke 
drifted upward as if from a hundred little 
chimneys, collecting into a gray cloud fifty 
feet over our heads and dimming the lights. 
Down went Ezra Pound into hell all the 
time vigorously translating the Odyssey's 
Book of the Dead: "peopled cities covered 
with else-webbed mist, unpierced ever with 
glitter of sun-rays," I read, smelling stale 
wintercoats which everyone had worn 
into the room and shucked on chairbacks, 
coats which, like mine, had probably not 
been drycleaned since the previous April 
whereupon they were promptly stuffed into 
mothballs all summer and fall. "Souls out 
of Erebus, cadaverous dead, of brides of 
youths and of the old who had borne 
much; souls stained with recent tears, girls 
tender . .. I sat to keep off the impetuous 
impotent dead till I should bear Tiresias." 

A shade fell across the book before me 
(believe it or not! Am I responsible for the 
truth?)-that is, a shadow-and my 
peripheral vision caught a form, man or 
woman I could not tell, seating itself 
beside me. A coat was shucked against 
the chair back, and now (still without 
moving my eyes from the page) I un-
doubtedly identified an ample, sloping pair 
of female breasts under a tight sweater. 

"A second time? why? man of ill star," 
I read, "facing the sunless dead and this 
joyless region? Stand from the fosse .... " 

Beside me, I heard a startled intake of 
breath. I looked directly at my neighbor. 
You guessed it-why kid around? 

"You!" I whispered. 

Brownie and I, three feet apart at the 
most, sat staring into one another's eyes. 
Brown eyes she had, of course. 

First she hit me with a timid smile-
little teeth, but strong and white like 
Blondie's. Then she blushed. It was a 
bright, bloody blush. I saw it first when 
it hit her throat above the sweater's crew-
neck, but the blood started against the 
skin one bell of a lot lower down than that. 
Her breasts, even her thighs and belly, 
must have been glowing. And now like 
those big thermometers you see in 
animated cartoons, the red caught her 
chin, cheeks, ears, forehead; and under 
that long brown hair which reached the 
small of her back blood must have been 
bursting through the pores in her scalp. 

Decency! cried my brain with strange ex-
hilaration as my own thermometer began 
to blush and swell. She feels shame! A 
sense of right and wrong! Honor! Good-
ness! Love! How long had it been since 
these words had even occurred to me? 
My prick strained against the shiny 
fabric of my pants. 

The blush on Brownie's face meta-
morphosed into terror. "Restroom!" she 
whispered. The utterance must have been 
involuntary, a reflex action of her horrified 
subconscious to tear her away. or, like a 
frightened. ostrich, plunge her head in a 
ditch. Her chair rasped. Staring into my 
eyes as Venus must have stared through 
the net into Vulcan's, she rose from the 
stall. She turned her back on me. She 
rushed down the narrow aisle as if pursued 
by a cohort of bogies and out of the room. 
But she left her coat against the chair's 
backside. And she left her books. 

Momentarily in shock, I looked back 
at old Ez. "Venerandam, in the Cretan's 
phrase, with the golden crown, Aphrodite, 
Cy pri munimenta sort ita est, mirthful, 
oricalchi, with golden girdle and breast 
bands, thou with dark eyelids bearing the 
golden bough ... " Waht the hell did all 
that Latin mean? I reached for a large 
mimeographed volume which generally 
answered that sort of idiot's question-
when suddenly on the stall beside me under 
three volumes of Proust in French, I 
recognized the big, brown, leather book 
I had watched Brownie leafing through 
since the end of the Christmas holidays. 

No hesitation. Shoving Proust off its top, 
I plopped the thing into my lap and spread 
it apart at the middle. The picture made me 
gasp. For it was an expensive album of 
eight-by-ten photographs, superbly in 
focus, superbly printed on the finest paper, 
superbly mounted under clear pools of 
mica, superbly posed. Pictures of whom? 
Of Brownie herself. Solo. Perhaps the 
most macabre object on which I have ever 
rested my jaded eyeballs, more so even 
than Yoke's plumbing of Cynthia Potter. 

The first picture I saw-indeed, as I 
discovered, all the pictures-must have 
been taken in April. Out of focus in the 
background, two or three trees appeared 
to be in blossom. Beyond the trees across 
the whole picture stood one of those 
ancient stone fences which farmers once 
made by removing rocks from their land. 
The ground gloomed in decay: bare earth, 
scraggly grass, hardy weeds and a few 
wildflowers illuminated sporadically by 
mottled, treebroken sunrays, themselves 
visible in the picture at a right-to-left slant. 
In the picture's foreground stood an old 
tombstone rounded at the top. WILLIAM 
MOON, 1790-1865, HIS WIFE DIANA, 
1801-1890, THEBESTISYETTOBE. 
Other old stones of the same design but 
out of focus studded the picture's back-
ground. Bent languidly in profile above the 
tombstone of Mr. and Mrs. Moon, nipples 
just brushing its lichened top, right band 
stroking its side, staring sentimentally into 
the lens like a dreamy Victorian belle 
stood Brownie. Nude. The focus was so 
good I could make out the down on her 
thighs. Her os pubis rested against the 
stone's side. On and on I leafed. All the 
other pictures, I guessed, had been taken 
the same day; in some, the sun cast its rays 
from left to right; in others they struck 
earth at right angles, and in one superb 
picture Brownie stood before a tombstone, 
her upturned face radiant with ecstasy in 
a direct right-angle beam from the sun. like 
Virgin Mary pierced by the Divine Af-
flatus. From the names (Brownie was 
photographed no less than twenty-five 
times before as many tombstones), I de-
cided the setting for all these pictures was 
a family burial ground now in disuse. The 
most recent death-date I noticed was 1918, 
perhaps a young victim of the First Great 
continued on page 15 


**Air War: Vietnam**
**Author: [Not specified]**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
d 
s 
rt 
h 
I!8Ch man had his own personal sidearm he 
.,ned for mopping up. A Swedish K automatic 
piiiOI seemed to be the favorite. 

C.pt. George O'Grady wears a steel helmet 
~led after the old Roman battle helmets. His 
dOOr gunners were enlisted people and as savage 
• the drivers. I saw a door gunner who affected 
ciMrakln gloves and long gauntlets. One man I met 
llld been mustered out and had gone home t o 
clwlllan work. He couldn't stand it at home. He re-
enll8ted and went back for another tour. 

One night Harvey's Huey made a pass over the 
edge of a suspect village. "We emptied a full load of 
ammo out on the silent darkness and went back to 
Vlnh Long; no one will ever know if we hit anything 
but we did a lot of shooting." On another afternoon, 
when Harvey asked a chopper pilot how he did, the 
man answered in disgust: "Wash out. Got me two 
VC water buffalo and a pregnant woman." 

The reason Harvey finds the chopper c rews the 
"jolliest" is that at least they know whom they are 
killing. The worst crimes being committed against 
the people of South Vietnam, however, are being 
commited by one of the least criticized of all our 
weapons, the B-52 bombers, once the backbone of 
General Curtis LeMay's SAC, the key to Dulles's 
.. massive retaliation" policy. Designed to deliver the 
H-bomb to the Soviet Union, they have this role in 
Vietnam: 

1M B-52 crews are old pros. They took on the 
llllalon of defending the United States when they 
could, at any moment, have been ordered to fly 
deep Into Russia against deadly defense of missiles 
lnd fighters-a mission from which many of them 
IIDUid not have returned. Now they have a quite 
-.rent set of orders. To blast or burn large areas 
o1 Jungle (also, roads, buildings and fields) con-
llllnlng living things, animals and men, some in-
ROCent and unaware, without warning. It's not a 
lllleelon of their choosing. It's just the w ay the ball 
Mppened to bounce. But one can't help but wonder 
what • man thinks about, after he'd set fire to 50 
.... ,. miles of j ungle from high altitude with a rain 
oltlre bombs, and wakes up In his room In the 
darkness-and lies awake watching the shadows 
Oft lhe ceiling •••• 

Nothing will live in those fifty square miles. Even 
• turtle burrowed in the mud at the back of a cave 
'Will become only an ash. Used in this fashion the 
8-52 comes perilously close to a weapon of 
Olnocide. According to Harvey and other reporters. 
OUr B-52 operations, using 3,000-pound bombs 
( .. Instant swimming pool makers'' the pilots say) 
llllve done as much to create the 2,500,000 to 
~000 ref~ gees in South Vietnam as any other 
can actron. 

What do these men feel about what they are 
~ng? Their professionalism protects them, Harvey 
-ieves, as well as their ability to make abstract the 
,_,Ita of their work. Harvey tried to invite a group 
Of B-s2 pilots to visit a hospital at Can Tho where 
the OVerwhelming majority of patients were women 
8nd children with fire and bomb wounds, but they 
• 
111Du1dn•t go inside. They insisted, in fact, that they 
~ never hit anyone. When Harvey offered to 
...._~ quite a few they did hit, one of them 
~ 
aald: "Yeah, but we patch 'em up, don't 
_,.. h even made the pilots laugh. 

The protection, then, is not to see. One of the 
most pathetic American statements to come from 
the war was made by John McCain 3rd, son and 
grandson of full admirals, after surviving the 
Forrestal holocaust. "It's a difficult thing to say. 
But now that I've seen what the bombs and napalm 
did to the people on our ship, I'm not so sure I want 
to drop any more of that stuff on North Vietnam." 
But he was a professional and was shot down doing 
it several months later. 

Harvey's book probably will not open any flier's 
eyes but it can help to reopen the eyes of Americans 
who have become somewhat jaded with reports of 
search-and-destroy missions and the "pacification" 
of the village of Ben Sue. Although Harvey didn't 
intend it this way, Air War: VIetnam provides new 
factual ammunition for those who wish to shift the 
debate about the war from argument about American 
political and military strategy, an argument that has 
become repetitive and frozen, to the question 
whether American actions are morally defensible 
on any grounds whatever. 

There is a legacy of Western thought, rather 
innocent but still a potent political force, that there 
are some things that just cannot be done, some 
actions that cannot be taken in the name of military 
expediency. Notwithstanding the complexities of our 
involvements in Vietnam, this moral argument is a 
quite simple one. One does not pour flaming jellied 
gasoline on the heads of women and children 
merely because there may be an enemy in the house 
or at least in the house next to it. One does not drop 
anti-personnel fragmentation bombs on undefended 
villages in the hope of scaring out soldiers, when 
there is certainty of mutilating people. 

There is a moral logic here: if this is the kind of 
action the government chooses to take, then not only 
should one withhold support of that action but it 
becomes one's duty to resist efforts by the govern-
ment to make one help fight such a war-something 
a good many people, especially the young, have 
chosen to do. However, while this argument is ef-
fective in shoring up the courage of individuals, it 
seems to me one that could have a far mo re powerful 
political effect than it yet has had. Proponents of the 
President's policy should not be allowed to hide 
behind the question of our involvement in Vietnam, 
tor which a case can be made, but should be forced 
to defend our conduct there, which, on examination, 
becomes indefensible. For this purpose, facts are 
necessary; some of these facts are to be found in 
Harvey's book. More are needed. 

A second legacy that most of us share, though it 
lies dormant in us, is the belief that men somehow 
are still held accountable for their deeds. It is the 
thought, after all, which informed Nuremberg. 
Generals don't make policy (usually), but they 
formulate and approve military conduct. Sooner or 
later the military people who have authorized and 
condoned such tactics as "Recon by fire" should be 
made to account for these acts before the American 
people. It is inexcusable that men such as Westmore-
land have been able to appear on television pro-
grams and at news conferences and have not been 
forced to account for the kind of tactics and weapons 
being used on the people of both Vietnams. Simply 
asking the question, spelling out the terms, would 
have value. It should prove interesting to hear, 
especially in the face of a persistent q uestioner, 
the defense of cluster-bombing a row of houses in 
the hope of finding a suspect. Until now one of the 
reasons for the absence of such questions has been 
a lack of hard information about just exactly what 
it is we are doing. 

I don't mean to suggest that such information as 
is documented in the book is going to cause an 
immediate sense of moral outrage throughout the 
US. It will not. But if there is hope for this country, 
it must be that when information of the kind con-
tained in Air War: Vietnam 1S more thoroughly known 
and understood (although Harvey has made it plain 
this was not his purpose in writing this book), an 
increasing number of people will find unacceptable 
both our presence in Vietnam and the political 
candidates who support that presence. 


**Title: OurAirWar**
**Author: Robert Crichton**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:

OurAirWar 
by Robert Crichton 
The reprinting of the following article from The New 
York Review of Books for January 4, 1968, is 
sponsored by the seventeen members of the Yale 
faculty and staff whose names appear below. We 
are all supporters of the Rev. William Coffin in his 
conscientious resistance to the draft, and many of 
us have shared in his actions to this end. We found 
this an exceptionally revealing article on a subject 
that concerns all Americans. We urge everyone to 
read it, and consider its implications. 
Rev. John Boyles Presbyterian chaplain 
Leo Braudy instructor of English 
Imbrie Buffum associate professor of French 
Thomas Gould visiting professor of classics 
Thomas M. Greene professor of English and com-
parative literature 
Michael N. Holahan instructor of English 
R W B Lewis professor of English, master of 
Calhoun College 
Adam Parry associate professor of classics 
Peter Wires Rose assistant professor of classics 
Joseph A. Russo assistant professor of classics 
Mrs. Joan Stadler research associate in micro-
biology 
Robert H. Socolow assistant professor of physics 
Holly Stevens director of New England Poetry 
Circuit 
David F. Thorburn Instructor of English 
James C. G. Walker assistant professor of geology 
Robert C. Wilhelm assistant professor of molecular 
biophysics 
Robert Wyman assistant professor of biology 
Copyright© 1967 by The New York Review. 
In the spring of 1966 a freelance writer named Frank 
Harvey was invited by Maj. George Weiss, PIO 
officer for the 7th Air Force in Saigon, to Vietnam to 
do a " definitive" study of the conduct of the air 
war. Harvey was reluctant to go; he is fifty-three 
and the assignment would be arduous and hazard-
ous. But because of his record as a military 
specialist (Harvey has written some eighty articles 
on military subjects in the past eighteen years, all 
of them laudatory, some of them adulatory), Weiss 
argued that Harvey was " obligated" to go. 

At the same time, Edward Muhlfeld, publisher of 
Flying, a well-edited, hawkish aviation magazine, 
also felt the time was right for such a study, and 
asked the Air Force officials in the Pentagon to 
suggest a writer for the job. The Pentagon named 
Frank Harvey. In spite of Harvey's reluctance, a 
liaison was arranged between Flying and Harvey, 
with the Pentagon acting as matchmaker. The ar-
rangement was consummated in June of that year 
when Harvey, at Flying's expense, flew to Saigon. 

In all Harvey spent fifty-five days in Vietnam. 

Because of his credentials, he was allowed and 
encouraged to fly every kind of mission being flown 
in Vietnam. When he returned to this country, he had 
sampled everything except a bombing run over 
North Vietnam and a B-52 raid over South Vietnam. 
His article, fifty-eight pages long, appeared in the 
November issue of Flying. In December a publisher 
asked Harvey to expand it to book length (he put 
back material Flying had cut, emphasized material 
the Pentagon had suggested be de-emphasized) and 
in July Air War: Vietnam was published in a silence 
which has persisted. This is unfortunate, since the 
book is the most complete record so far of what our 
airmen are actually doing to the people of Vietnam; 
it is extremely revealing, if at times reluctantly so, 
precisely because of those qualities that made 
Harvey so acceptable to the Air Force in the first 
place. 

At the outset Harvey intended to do no more 
than record, as clearly as possible, every aspect of 
the air w~r that he had experienced. From the carrier 
Constellation in the South China Sea he wrote 
Muhlfeld: "I am leaving the political situation strictly 
alone. My assignment is to tell about the air war-
not the reasons for it. And I certainly won't leave 
until we have spent some time in combat. To leave 
before that would be to miss the very heart of the 
excitement." 

The very heart of the excitement! It is Interesting 
to compare this with the celebrated opening para-
graph of Mary McCarthy's Vietnam. "I confess that 
when I went to Vietnam I was looking for material 
damaging to the American interest and that I found 
it, though often by accident or in the process of 
being briefed by an official." In Harvey's case he 
decidedly was not looking for damaging material, 
but, as Miss McCarthy did, he found it, and often in 
the same way. It is to his credit as a reporter that 
he put it down, often, it seems, against his will. In a 
curiously effective way his unwillingness to face 
the moral implications of what he saw makes 
Harvey's book at times more shocking even than 
Mary McCarthy's book. It also makes one wish Miss 
McCarthy had been able to see a fragment of what 
Harvey was encouraged to see. 

It did not occur to him then that if one is simply 
recording facts one can also be making a statement, 
and he was stunned when peace groups and pub-
lications began quoting chunks of prose from his 
article. He was called down to the Pentagon to 
account for some of the things he had written, and, 
although he knew that he had reported the truth, 
he was stricken with feelings of remorse for having 
let his country down. 

The tone of the book is set on the second page: 
Dixie Station had a reason. It was simple. A pilot 
going into combat for the first time is a bit like a 
swimmer about to dive into an icy lake. He likes to 
get his big toe wet and then wade around a little 
before leaping off the high board Into the numbing 
depths. So It was fortunate that young pilots could 
get their first taste of combat under the direction 
of a forward air controller over a flat country in 
bright sunshine where nobody was shooting back 
with high-powered ack-ack. He learns how it f-1• 
to drop bombs on hum~~n beings and watch huts 
go up In a boil of orange flame when his aluminum 
napalm tanks tumble into them. He gets hardened 
to pressing the button and cutting people down like 
little cloth dummies. as they sprint frantically under 
him. He gets his sword bloodied for the rougher 
things to come. 

This passage, in Harvey's notes, was originally 
written as a straight description of the young pilot's 
" blooding" process. He showed me these notes 
when 1 interviewed him before writing this review. 
The ironic "So it was fortunate" was added later. 
The paragraph was originally intended to shock, but 
not in the way it finally does. It was meant to alert the 
reader to the fact that this was a professional war 
and that, in a war, the pros learn how to press the 
firing button. But it is the image of helpless people 
sprinting frantically beneath the pilot that finally 
impresses us. 

Sartre has written that the ultimate evil is the 
ability to make abstract that which is concrete. The 
military have developed this into a habitual ap-
proach. Harvey's sin against the military code is 
not only his stubborn inability to make inhuman 
that which is human, not just to see targets as people 
and people as victims, but to feel for them as well. 
" There was nothing profound about it," Harvey told 
me. " I just peeked under one blanket too many and 
saw one too many broken bodies under it. Nothing 
we were doing was worth this." 

While Air War: Vietnam is revealing in this fashion, 
its greater interest lies in its hard factual informa-
tion. I felt, for example, that I was more than 
moderately well informed about the actions being 
taken in Vietnam in our name. I confess I was shaken 
by how little I knew about the air war, which plays 
an increasingly major role in the military effort there. 

Harvey begins his book with his trip to Saigon, 
and a visit to the Mekong Delta for a defoliation 
bombing run that was a part of "Operation Ranch 
Hand." The motto of defoliating crews was: Only you 
can prevent forests. At this point, Harvey's book 
seems to be describing brave men doing a nasty 
but needed job. But the tone soon begins to change: 
what begins to disturb Harvey, violating an inbred 
American sense of fair play, is the terrible one-
sidedness of things. If a peasant whose livelihood 
is being poisoned has the temerity to get a rifle and 
take a shot at the defoliation plane, the conse-
quences of his rash act will prove to be catastrophic. 
The accepted procedure at this moment is for a 
crew member to throw out a smoke grenade in the 
direction from which tie thinks the shot came; 
within minutes and sometimes seconds an aircraft 
the size of a Martin B-57 Canberra bomber, "riding 
shotgun" in the region, will explode onto the scene 
and saturate the area around the smoke with a fire 
power no American soldier has ever experienced. 
It struck Harvey as an excessive application of force. 
He had not yet reached the point of asking about the 
innocent people in the area who might be taking the 
full brunt of it. 

"Well, it is a little exaggerated," a flier told him. 
"We're applying an $18,000,00 solution to a $2 
problem. But, still, one of the little mothers was 
firing at us." 

Here the peculiar psychology of the American 
military emerges as something that seems unique 
,
in modern warfare. The American soldier has be-
come accustomed to such an overwhelming pre-
ponderance of fire power to back him up, especiallY 1 
air power (Harvey estimates it at about 1000 to 1 ), 
that he has come to think of it as his right, as an 
inherent property of being American, as the natural 
balance of life itself. If the enemy attempts to red rest 
the balance the reaction is often one of shocked 
surprise: "Why the little sons-of-bitches!" and some-
times absurdly violent. Negroes in the South have 
an understanding of this kind of reaction. Flying 
chose two adjectives to describe the nature of the 
air war: vicious and savage. Both are accurate. 

The justification for this behavior, which HarveY 
himself finds it hard to dispute, lies in the words 
" saving American lives." Any action can be con-
doned, any excess tolerated, any injustice justified. 
if it can be made to fit this formula. The excessive 
valuation placed on American life, over any other 
life, accounts for the weapons and tactics we feel 
entitled to use on the people of South Vietnam and, 
increasingly now, North Vietnam. 

The key to the air war in South Vietnam is the 
Forward Air Controllers. The FACs are, as HarveY 
terms them, "the death-bringers." They hover over 
the roads and river banks and paddies of the south 
in little Cessna 0-1 E Bird Dog spotter planes and 
act as all-seeing eyes looking tor signs of suspiciOUS
continued on page 12 
