Publication date: November 2004
Volume: 37
Issue number: 3


**MASTHEAD**
- Publisher: Michael Addison
- Editor-in-Chief: Flora Lichtman
- Managing Editor: Sarah Laskow
- Designer: Miao Ying
- Business Manager: Brianna Wayland
- Photography Editor: Evi Fairbank
- Production Manager: Adrienn Quintus
- Research Director: Romy Drucker
- Senior Editor: Paige Austin
- Circulation and Subscriptions Manager: Lani Rick, David


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- Out in the Cold - Amia Srinivasan
- The Dead Shall Be Raised - Adriane Quinlan
- Shifting Markets - Evelyn Shih
- Shots in the Dark: - Liz Hammond
- The Critical Angle: Olde Blue - Sarah Laskow
- Essay: Choosing Life - Lucius Kwong
- Endnote: Weddings/Celebrations? - Romy Drucker


**Title: Out in the Cold**
**Author: Amia Srinivasan**
**Page number(s): 12**

How Yale fails its queer community.


**Title: The Dead Shall Be Raised**
**Author: Adriane Quinlan**
**Page number(s): 17**

Unearthing the story of body donation at Yale.


**Title: Shifting Markets**
**Author: Evelyn Shih**
**Page number(s): 20**

Asian-American storeowners relocate to New Haven.


**Title: Shots in the Dark:**
**Author: Liz Hammond**
**Page number(s): 28**



**Title: The Critical Angle: Olde Blue**
**Author: Sarah Laskow**
**Page number(s): 30**



**Title: Essay: Choosing Life**
**Author: Lucius Kwong**
**Page number(s): 34**



**Title: Endnote: Weddings/Celebrations?**
**Author: Romy Drucker**
**Page number(s): 38**


**On Guard**
**Author: julia Wallace**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
. . 
• 
' 
On Guard 
IN 1966 the great 
philanthropist 
Paul 
Mellon 
donated his exten-
sive collection of British art to Yale, and in 
· 1974, the great architect Louis Kahn com-
pleted his last building, a museum to house 
that art, and ever since then, the most beau-
· 
tiful spot on Yale's campus has been the 
fourth floor of the Yale Center for British 
Art on a mellow mid-afternoon when the 
sky is nothing but blue and the sun hits the 
stone angels on the bridge over High Street 
and the city is a crazy mess of spires and 
pointed roofs jutting into the distance and 
"The Dort Packet-Boat from Rotterdam . 
Becalmed" by J.M.W. Turner shines a light 
of its own onto the sea and the city it 
depicts. 

Weekday afternoons at the YCBA are 
slow, and as I sat by this painting one 
sunny Tuesday, only a few people passed by. 
There was a couple with a baby girl 
("Look," they said to her, pointing at the . 
painting, "It's alive."). Then there were two 
glossy, gray-suited women gesturing flam-
boyantly ("Turner was a genius."), and then 
for a long time there was nobody but a 
security guard with a silver hoop in his ear. 
He was short and stocky and he darted in 
and out looking at "The Dort Packet-Boat" 
from several angles. 
Once or twice he 
swiped his hand over the painting's huge, ·· 
gold frame. "I don't know," he said into his 
radio. · "It doesn't look that bad." 

I was curious about what he was doing, 
but I didn't think I was allowed to ask. I 
had just come from the museum's "control 
room," where I spoke at length with Len 
Costanza, the head security supervisor of 
the YCBA, who had given me explicit 
instructions not to interview the security 
guards-"I don't know what they might tell 
you!" he exclaimed in mock horror before 
4 
. 
adding gravely, "We alwao/s need to be secu-
rity conscious." Len is always security con-
scious. On the bulletin board above his. 
desk he has tacked up articles about devas-
tating art heists. 
"2 Art Treasures With 
Value of At Least $200 Million Stolen!" "A 
Robbery, A Reporter, and Somewhere a 
Cellar Full of Masterpieces!" When I asked 
him if I could turn on a tape recorder, he 
squinted at me and quickly shook his head. 
Definitely not, nope. 
He couldn't allow 
himself to be recorded, "for secu.rity rea-
sons." Instead, he made a counter-offer: I 
could take notes, and he would inspect 
them. As we began to speak I mentioned 
that I come to the museum often. 
"I 
know," he said quietly. "I've seen· you." 

Len"s office is right next to the control 
room, which is not one of the most beauti-
ful spots on the Yale campus. Just a door 
· and a corridor away from the smooth, soar-
ing spaces of Kahn's museum, these walls 
are made of cinderblocks instead of paneled 
oak and crammed with television screens 
instead of paintings. There is a huge series 
of Polaroid snapshots depicting everyone 
who is authorized to enter the building. 
There is a drawing of Betty Boop. And 
then, of course, there is Len, who has been 
a constant presence here for 25 years, when 
he started as a security guard. He knows the 
place inside -and out and keeps a very close 
eye on things, but even so, a few more sets 
of eyes don't hurt. 

Tha"s why the YCBA has 35 roving 
security cameras, which, I have been 
assured, will find you wherever you are. 
The cameras are state-of-the-art: they can 
swivel around the room, follow people 
through the museum, and zoom in on 
minute details. They produce a record of 
every visitor's motions from the time he 
enters the building to the time he leaves, 
stored on a hard drive. When I visited the 
control room, a petite woman was manning 
the computers and scanning the images 
·intently. Len introduced her. "I have every 
confidence inJen here," he said. "She's seen 
things under fire. She oversees everything 
from this room. She even makes sure the 
UPS guy isn't an imposter." Jen cast a har-
ried glance at me and turned back to her six 
computer screens as they flashed from scene 
to scene. A man walked through a doorway. 
Another man walked through another 
doorway. Nothing looked particularly sus-
picious to me, but as Len pointed out sev-
eral times, the guards· at the YCBA have to 
be constantly alert, constantly ready for dis-
aster. "You have to think like this," he says. 

Len Costanza does not think or speak in 
ambiguities, because the way he sees it, . 
there are none, at least not in his line of 
work. Either the museum is secure or it is 
not. One of his favorite phrases is "we must 
always assume", as in, "we must always 
assume a fire alarm is set off in an attempt-
ed burglary," or, "we must always assume 
that someone is hiding out in the bushes 
ready to steal a painting," or simply, "we 
must always assume the worst." 

These aren't just blind assumptions 
Len knows the worst, because he has seen it. 
He still remembers the exact date and time 
of the first and last major "security inci-
dent" in YCBA history. At 9:15 on the 
morning of July 19, 1984, a guard discov-
ered something missing from the Henry 
Moore sculpture "Bird and Egg" -namely, 
the egg, which had been completely 
detached from the base and spirited away. 
The 
s~ulpture's defacement caused an 
uproar, and although the egg was returned 
11 days later (via inter-office mail, enclosed 
in a brown envelope labeled "sorry for the 
hassle"),. the memory still haunts Len, who 
keeps a manila folder full of yellowed clip-
pings about the theft. When I asked him 
about the incident, he winced Did he ever 
find out who did it? "Well, ubviously-no, I 
obviously can't say." Weii, if everything was 
secure the night before, it must have been a 
guard, right? "I can't go into it further D I 
could never say it was an inside job," he 


--- Page 5 ---

said abruptly. "But timing-wise, it had to be 
someone who was in the building prior to 
its opening." He changed the subject. "We 
have to be in a position to prevent things 
like this from happening ever again,, he 
said emphatically. "It's almost like someone 
invaded my personal-." He stopped and 
began again. "This is our house, and we 
take so much pride in the beauty of the 
building, the Louis Kahn building, and the 
art. We takeJt personally. Somebody gets 
something robbed, the next thing they do is 
put in a whole new security system. My way 
of thinking is that we always need to be two 
steps ahead. Many times on a Sunday,- I'll 
walk this building and look for vulnerable 
places. We can't rely on luck-luck has noth-
ing to do with it-we just don't take any 
shortcuts. There's only one way to do it, 
and that's to do it right." 

Suddenly, he straightened up in his 
Aeron chair and looked me in the eye. "I 
knew Mr. Mellon-! have a signed copy of 
one of his books-and I feel I have a duty to 
live up to his treasures. If he was going to 
give his treasures to this museum, I wi).l do 
everything in my power to protect those 
treasures. He was such a wonderful man." 

When I asked him about his own favorite 
art, he had a ready answer. "I always 
admired the Stubbs paintings. I love horses, 
and I know these were Mr. Mellon's favorite 
paintings. I'm fascinated by the oldest 
paintings in the collection. How artists 
made their paints and constructed this art 
and it's still standing here 500 years later." 

He dwelt on Paul Mellon and his lega-
cy for a while, which makes sense; after all, 
these paintings are Len's to protect, and he, 
perhaps more than any other man, is 
· charged with the mission of keeping them 
intact until he chooses to pass them on to 
another protector. But his eloquence faded 
to jargony, nervous patter as I prepared to 
leave and asked if I could talk to an actual 
security guard He clammed up again and 
gave me a "no, sorry, I don't think so, secu-
NoVEMBER 2004 
•. 
rity issues," and I gave him a "thanks for 
your time" and returned to the fourth floor 
of the museum to sit by the Turner paint-
ing. I started to write and stopped again, 
acutely conscious of the 35 cameras pan-
ning the building ("I could read someone' s 
book with this camera," I remembered Len 
saying). I didn't dare speak to the guard 
with the earring, but I watched as he paced 
in and out of the room, still talking into his 
radio and eyeing "The Dort Packet-Boat." 
Eventually he returned and slid a slatted 
window shut. He looked at me apologeti-
cally-"Sorry about that, but we've gotta 
keep the sunlight off the painting, we've 
gotta protect it" -and then the room was 
darker but the painting still glowed and the 
guard moved on. 
-julia Wallace


**Double Agency**
**Author: fanny Dach**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

Double Agency 
LAST 
MAY-
· , Eritrea celebrated the 13th anniversary of 
its 
independence 
from 
neighboring 
Ethiopia, to which a UN Resolution had 
formally ceded it in December 1950. But a 
major Amnesty International review under-
taken in the months before the country's 
birthday paints what the BBC calls "a 
damning portrait of what Eritrea, once seen 
as one of Mrica' s brightest hopes, has 
become." !he report cites the nine-year 
detention of religious minorities and jour-
nalists, the continued internment of 
Ethiopian POW s, the torture of political 
prisoners and women conscripts, and the 
continued avoidance of a multi-party elec-
-tion despite a 1997 constitutional amend-
ment calling for one. 

Law School Professor Lea Brilmayer 
may be the highest ranked and most over-
looked government official teaching at Yale 
University. Author of two books on the 
conflict between domestic and global 
courts, tenured as the Boltzmann Professor 
of International Law, and an ardent anti-
secessionist, she is also the Chief Legal 
Advisor to the Office of the President of 
Eritrea. 

According to Don Lewis, a partner at 
PiperRudnick LLP in Washington, D.C. 
and one of the counsels for Ethiopia, no 
one is better cut out for the job. "She's a 
true believer in the Eritrean Cause," he says, 
with a certain degree of astonishment that 
anyone actually could be. She could pass a 
lie detector test asserting that Eritrea was an 
innocent little country whose neighbors 
were all out to get it." 

However questionable an affiliation 
with a country that Amnesty International, 
Human Rights Watch, and the UN High 
Commissioner for Human Rights have 
condemned, none of these accusations faze 
either Brilmayer or Yale. In fact, the 
University supports her. The Law School's 
Orville 
H. 
Schell, 
Jr. 
Center 
for 
International Human Rights is the infor-
mational and financial umbrella under 
which all foreign aid programs sponsored 
by the Law School are organized-a Dwight 
Hall for the global community. In its annu-
al guide to human rights programs, there is 
a listing for an 'Eritrea Project.' "Summer 
placements are available for a small number 
of students interested in working in Asmara 
on development and public international 
project 0 rang[ing] from urban planning, to 
seeking compensation for victims of illegal 
deportation from Ethiopia, to preparing 
documents for international arbitration. 
The Law School provides basic travel 
expenses.'' According to Brilmayer, about 
twenty students have taken her up on this 
opportun1ty. 

While Lewis freely admits that Yale 
faculty members are allowed their private 
endeavors, the involvement of students and 
University fundi_ng baffles him. "How," he 
asks, "does a human rights center justify the 
giving of these grants? These students aren't 
5 


--- Page 6 ---

helping Eritreans, they're helping Eritrea: 
helping its government, its criminal sol-
. diers, and its corrupt president." He cites 
the reports of human rights groups and The 
Hague's decision to condemn Eritrea for 
the "frequent physical abuse of [Ethiopian] 
civilians by means of intentional killings, 
beatings and abductions" as evidence for a 
side of the country ignored by Brilmayer 
and her supporters. 

Brilmayer denies all of these allega-
tions in the same breath as she protests 
implicating the University in her work. The 
Schell Center, in her mind, serves a neces-
sary information conduit that should not 
be confused with support. The same ratio-
nale keeps her from spreading the gospel of 
Eritrea in her classroom or public lectures, 
interesting and relevant as her work might 
be. "I don't proselytize. It's very different if 
a student comes to me in a one-on-one set-
ting and asks about what I do. Then we can 
sit down and talk about it. But I d.on't bring 
it up in the classroom." 

The secrecy with which she blankets 
her work, given its magnitude and the stu-
dent body's interest in international rela- . 
tions and human rights,is almost astound-
ing. Lewis, remarking on Brilmayer's 
unquestioned support by the University · 
and the ignorance of students on the situa-
tion, asks what would have happened if this 
had been not Eritrea but "1980's apartheid 
South Africa. Or Pinochet." While his post 
as opposing counsel has undoubtedly 
biased him against the Eritrean govern-
ment-and Ethiopia has committed its own 
share of human rights abuses and war 
crimes, to be sure-it is curious that 
Brilmayer's work has never elicited either 
interest or controversy in the politicized 
environment of Yale. While apartheid 
South Africa and Pinochet's Chile may be 
too one-sided to serve as good examples, it 
does seem that Eritrea gets ignored largely 
because of its geographical location. Were a 
professor to become centrally involved in a 
contentious western European government, 
however small, it's safe to say that campus 
would take rather severe notice. With a 
recent census count giving it a population 
of some 4,362,000, Eritrea has nearly ten 
times the citizens of Luxembourg and 
about 400,000 more than the Republic of 
Ireland. Why should a professor's taking 
sides in full-scale atmed conflict be less 
polarizing than the endorsement of, ·say, 
6 
the IRA? 

And it's not as if the international 
community has turned a blind eye . 
Following the 2000 
<;f!ase-fire which 
brought an end to what The Hague calls the 
' ·! 
"costly, large-scale interna~ional armed con-
flict'' that raged between Eritrea and 
:~~ . 
Ethiopia, The Hague set up two tribunals to 
settle the sources of co~ict-a Boundary 
Commission to determin'' the new border · 
.. 
of the countries, and a Cl · ims Commission 
to assess awards owed by each country for 
war crimes committed during the conflict. 
In the preface to its decision in support of · 
Ethiopia, the Claims Commissioners 
encouraged both nations to guard against 
the 
"nationalization of the 
truth." 
Btilmayer, who spent the 2000-2001 acade-
mic year on sabbatical in the city of 
Asmara to collect evidence for exactly that 
nationalization, is listed as the chief coun-
sel for the Eritrean government in both 
deliberations. 

Prestigious 
as 
title 
sounds, 
Brilmayer is quick to downplay her role in 
the Eritrean government. Though she 
began handling cases for Eritrea shortly 
after its founding, it is a relationship she 
describes ·as starting almost "irrationally." 
"I'd always been interested. in Africa, I don't 
really know why. I wenJ over and did one 
job for them, and everyone was very warm. 
It was just one of those things," she · 
explains. When confronted with the idea 
that her job description sounds remarkably 
similar to that of the United States 
Attorney General, she only laughs before 
protesting that she doesn't deal with any 
aspects of domestic policy-no Patriot Acts 
come from behind her desk. "I think they 
had . to give me a title of some sort," she 
says, "and this just happened to be it. 
Something to put on my nametag." 


**Rhyme and Reason**
**Page number(s): 6**

Rhyme 
and 
Reason 
ADMIRERS OF MARK TwAIN's 
literature might be unaware 
of the humorist's hidden tal-
ent for doodling on dinner 
napkins while blindfolded. 
Indeed, the underground 
annals of the Beinecke house 
both the manuscript notes 
"Self Portrait, by Henry Miler. 
Adventures. of Tom Sawyer and "Un-Eyed 
Dog," a sketch ."Executed instantaneously 
and blindfolded by I Truly Yours /Mark 
Twain/ (Educated 
artist).'~ ~ The jaunty 
humor ofTwain's caption is reflected in the 
title of the collection to which the sketch 
belongs: the "Art for the Wrong. Reason" 
archive of the Yale Collection of American 
Literature. The archive is named for the rea-
son the works were collected: Its 68 pieces 
were amassed primarily out of interest in 
the writers who created them and less out of 
appreciation for the works' artistic merit. 

The works range from the hastily-com-
posed caricature to the ambitious litho-
graphs or oil painting. The collection was 
originally the private investment of 
Norman HoltJ:leS Pearson (BA 1932, Ph. D. 
1941 ), Ya.le Professor of English and 
American studies and advisor to the Yale 
Collection of American Literature. After 
his death in 1975, all of Pearson's personal 
and scholarly papers were donated to the 
Beinecke, including what he had dubbed 
the 'Art for the Wrong Reason' collection. 

The scholar's own story informs that of the 
art collection he donated to the Beinecke. 



**Title: Pearson's "Art for the Wrong Reason" Collection**
**Author: Emily Koplty**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
•
A portrait of Pearson graces the wall to
the left of the reading · room ·in the library
and reveals not only his warm, intelligently
wrinkled countenance, but also his many
interests. Set in the professor's HGS study,
the painting boasts in its background the
Oxford Anthology of American Literature,
which Pearson edited with his friend
William Rose Benet. Perched next to the
Oxford anthology is Dusty Diamonds, a
"boys' book" representative of Pearson's
collection of this genre. But most striking is
a painting of a woman whose cold face con-
trasts markedly with Pearson's own: it is the
face of "Arabella," who stares out of D. H.
Lawrence's only portrait (which Pearson
owned). Arabella's distant, overly large eyes
and awkwardly open mouth suggest that
Lawrence was wise to stick to his day job.
Pearson acquired "Arabella" for his collec-
tion fronf the model who sat for it, and dis-
played the painting in his office because his
wife declared there to be "too much artisti-
cally wrong" with it to be displayed in the
Pearson home. Much of the art in Pearson's
collection was similarly obtained from
writer-friends, who included e.e. cum-
mings, William Carlos Williams, Tom
Wolfe, and Denise Levertov. Purchased
pieces
by
Robert
Louis
Stevenson,
Thackeray, Proust, and Hugo, among oth-
ers,
round
out
the group.
Pearson's interest in writers' art
stemmed from his desire to gain a fuller
picture (so to speak) of the writers whose
literature he enjoyed. Pearson wrote, "[I]
like to meditate on the relationship
between a writer's painting and his poetry
and prose. Is there a correlation? Does a
writer write better because of learning to
hold a brush?" One might look to e. e.
cummings' paintings for an answer. Along
with Herman Hesse, cummings is one of
the few writers in the collection whose artis-
tic endeavors are particularly extensive and
well known. One of his watercolors, "View
of Silver Lake" is intensely colorful and joy-
ous, yet deliberate. This controlled eupho-
ria is familiar to the reader of such poetry,
as "Picasso I you give us things I which I
bulge: grunting lungs pumped full of sharp
thick mind." Although Cummings' grace-
ful
paintings
do
not
themselves
"bulge:grunting lungs pumped full," these
landscapes demonstrate the ppet's serious
aspiration to be a gentler Picasso.


More obscure is the art of William
Carlos Williams, who studied visual art
before he took up poetry. The calm, bucol-
ic mood of his green-and-brown New Jersey
landscape, "View of Passaic River," shadows
the less calm America of his long poem
"Paterson." The painting hangs in the
office of Nancy Kuhl, the Assistant Curator
of the American Literature collection. "So
few people seem to know that Williams
painted at all-even those who otherwise
know a great deal about his work and his
life," she says. "When they see the painting
in my office, I think people take it in as a
painting, but they begin also to factor the
fact of it into their larger understanding of
the poet/man/doctor/artist who painted
it." Seeing the art of other writers besides
Williams and cummings likewise enhances
familiarity with the people behind the pen.
Like Williams, GUnter Grass also
began his career as a visual artist. His litho-
graph of four huddling, cloaked men whose
heads resemble that of "The Scream,"
haunts the collection. So does Tom Wolfe's
ink sketch of Hugh Hefner as a smoking,
boozing, dictatorial imp. Less threatening
but equally impish is Henry Miller's paint-
ed self-portrait, in which abstract blobs
almost accidentally fuse to compose a
blank-eyed bohemian. George Bernard
Shaw's own watercolor self-portrait, as an
ethereal Don Quixote, reveals the play-
wright's romantic and wry side.


Some of the pieces are more strange
than illuminating. Hilaire Belloc, a French-
turned-British writer of poetry, literary crit-
icism, and military and social history, con-
tributes to the collection an ink sketch of
cartoonish goblins and fairies surrounding
a watercolor inset of a nebulous landscape.
By way of explanation, a pseudo-Latin
inscription captions the picture. Queen
Victoria's miniature figure studies, the
product of her fourteen-year-old hand, also
distinguish the collection. The Queen ren-
ders a pair of horses, a horse-riding Turk,
and a gypsy girl with a goat and tambourine
in simple lines and dutiful cross-hatching.
The "Art for the Wrong Reason" col-
lection was featured in a Beinecke exhibit
about twenty years ago, but since then most
of the art, which is flat and unframed, has
sat quietly in two grey, acid-free boxes. The
occasional scholar does request to see a par-
ticular piece. Yet even if the art does not
regularly appear to the public, there is
virtue in the possibility of future exhibi-
tion, in its in-the-meantime aid to scholars,
and in its very preservation.
Would a Twain sketch by any other
name look as sweet? Perhaps not, but a
Williams painting or Grass litho might.
These works of art, though not master-
pieces, help us to piece together the person-
ality of masters.
-Emily Koplty


**Title: Plane Sight**
**Author:  (Not specified)**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

WITH MY SEATBELT AND EARMUFFS SECURE,
we go over the final pre-take-off precau-
tions, following yet
pre-made, all-
encompassing checklist. A voice signals
that all is clear, and the plane inches for-
ward. The comfortable feeling of being safe-
ly strapped into the backseat of a car van-
ishes as the single engine propeller plane
jumps from the airstrip and begins to wob-
ble awkwardly. My eyes dart to the pilot,
Ricky Kamp, Forestry School graduate, a
flight student, and his instructor, Charlie
Skelton, the President of Yale Avaiation,
hoping to be assured that everything is run-
ning smoothly. Eventually, the plane stead-
ies, cutting through the autumn air, as my
view of New Haven expands. Scanning the
three glass panes of the aircraft, I feel as
though I am peer-
ing into an undis-
turbed snow globe
of New Haven.
Every
building
appears to me in a
new context, a
part of a clearer
picture of New
Haven. My exag-
gerated view of
Yale as the epicen-
ter of New Haven
shifts into scale.
Yale Aviation
was launched in
1915 by then Yale
sophomore
Trubee Davison.


The club's alumni include the founders of
Pan American Airlines and of Federal
Express. The group became the first aerial
coastal patrol unit and originally served as
a springboard into the Army. Today's club
is purely recreational. It is no longer direct-
ly affiliated with Yale because of liability
reasons, and twenty percent of its members
have no Yale affiliation. Interest in sustain-
ing the club has not dwindled over the
years, and it still serves-indirectly at least-as
occupational training. Kamp believes that
air training is the ultimate multi-tasking
challenge.
"Ikea's parking lot is nearly full again,"
Skelton laments. The massive aerial eyesore
is matched by a parking lot, nearly as large
and equally bland. Gliding past Ikea,
Skelton offers a passing remark about Yale-
New Haven's presence. "You get a feel of
the size of Yale's hospital-and it's expand-
ing." He points out Ingalls rink. I turn to
glance down at it as we fly by. Its smooth
lines make it look like a grey turtle shell
sleeping amongst the beautiful collage of
treetops.


Yale Aviation provides an enticing
promise: "The possibilities that await you
as you soar skyward are endless." The orga-
nization extends its invitation on signs at
Yale Station post office, The club boasts up
Skelton, a dedicated, top-notch head
instructor in a four-plane fleet, and a flock
of 82 members, who take in the view of
New Haven-among other sights-from
2,000 feet up.
Skelton's red-tinted aviator glasses and
his captain's voice-soothing, steady, and
clear-make the
novice flyer feel
safe under his
wings. His rela-
tionship
with
planes
started
when he joined
the Air Scouts, a
group under the
international
Scouting move-
ment
that
emphasizes fly-
ing
activities.
He obtained a
job through the
Air Scouts ser-
vicing airplanes
at
Tweed-New
Haven airport, where he worked until
enrolling in Quinnipiac University. He
then joined Yale's Navy ROTC and later
served as a Marine colonel and fighter pilot.
His aviation and military background are
revealed in his regimented yet calm
demeanor.


Before we take off, Skelton's equally
meticulous student, scans his checklist a
second time while peering into crevices in
search of "crack manifolds" that could dan-
gerously spread. "It's no place to pull over
up there," he says as he stares under the
plane for any malfunctions. Skelton
explained to Kamp that most repairs to the
planes, whose manufacturing dates range
from 1966 to 1975, are "frighteningly
expensive." Still, the club services its fleet
more often than is required by law. Skelton
has yet to witness an accident, and the
planes' ages are masked by new paint jobs
and polished parts. Kamp regularly reads
the National Transportation Safety reports.


Many fatal accident reports cite "relative
inexperience," he says. Kamp can but has
not flown solo because he refuses to take
the written test, which necessitates 40
hours of previous flight. He believes gain-
ing experience is important and is in no
hurry to rush through the pilot classifica-
tions.
In the air, a message blurs over the
radio signaling that another plane is near-
by. Suddenly, my two companions begin
making brisk movements in all directions
trying to spot the other craft. This time I
am unwarrantedly calm. When they spot
the other aircraft, they settle comfortably
in their seats again. Despite the over 100
hours of flying time Kamp has clocked,
Skelton maintains a "sterile cockpit"-con-
versation is mainly limited to take-off,
landing and flying. "If you're going for
instruction, paying for instruction, you are
going to be instructed," Kamp said.


It is no surprise that the club is expen-
sive, which is one reason the faculty advi-
sor for the club, Lawrence Manley posits
for limited undergraduate enrollment. The
club requires an initial $150 fee-undergrad-
uates receive a $25 discount-and monthly
dues of $37.50. In addition, flyers pay an
in-flight hourly fee that hovers around $80
per hour. The price is well worth it for
those who can afford membership, howev-
er. "For me, it's exhilarating. It keeps me
out of the office," Kamp said.
For Kamp, his flying hobby and his
career mingle in the cockpit. According to
Skelton, Kamp "takes more photos than
anyone I have known." The aerial photos
allow him to assess environmental viola-
tions, part of his job with the Department
of Environmental Protection. The view
from above gives him a better idea of envi-
ronmental damage. His first comments are
not about the buildings, as Skelton's are,
but about the impending haze where the
New York city skyline should be. He
remarks that after it rains, everything
appears clean and fresh from above, but the
pollution quickly builds up again.
As we circle New Haven one last time,
my head aches slightly and my stomach is
tested by two minor patches of turbulence
(perhaps caused by the wind deflecting off


**Title: Family Plot**
**Author: Concha Mendoza**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
THE GIORDANO BROTHERS' SHOWROOM looks like an extension of the cemetery across the street. The front lawn is lined with three rows of gravestones, some of which bear inscriptions, all arranged around a colossal granite cross as tall as the showroom itself. The scene unfolds inside, where Pat Giordano, Sr. stands amid more headstones, a portable phone pressed into his ear, as he confirms such information as the name of "the deceased"-never "the dead." He's so poised and professional that it's easy to overlook the morbidity of his business-after all, he does sell tombstones for a living. "Me, it doesn't bother," he says, walking past the headstone of Albert Marzala, June 29, 1920-August 17, 2000. "But some people get very uneasy when they come in here." As for the headstones that populate the store, most were intended for specific clients. "In thirty-five years, you make a few mistakes," he admits with a shrug of his shoulders.


Selling headstones is a touchy business. Along with undertakers and funeral directors, Pat Sr. is one of the first people to come in contact with a family after a family member has died. He says that he's had a fair number of people cry in the store. Grieving pet owners, surprisingly, are one of the most devastated groups. "You have the biggest, burliest guys come in here and break down," he says.


As far as emotional strain is concerned, Pat Sr. claims his job is far easier than that of, say, an undertaker. However, he notes that buying a headstone marks a turning point in a family's grieving process. "Some people will keep having you change little things on headstones, because that's the final gift that you can give a loved one," he says. "Once it's done, you reach a kind of closure, and some people aren't ready for that."


Currently, Pat Sr. is the only Giordano running the monument store. Once upon a time, however, it was owned by the Giordano brothers-all four of them. Pat Sr.'s grandfather founded the store along with his three brothers in 1921. It has remained at the same location across from the Yale Bowl ever since, and has subsequently been owned by Pat Sr.'s father, and now Pat Sr. himself.


Although some carving is done at the quarry in Barre, Vermont, from which Pat Sr. orders the majority of his granite, most of the tombstones are etched in a shop behind the showroom. Over the span of his career, Pat Sr. has witnessed the decline of hammer-and-chisel-carved stones and an increase in the use of more high-tech techniques like sandblasting and computer imaging. It's even possible to use computers to etch a photograph of the deceased onto a tombstone.


Beyond manufacturing headstones, Pat Sr. also has to be acutely aware of the rules and regulations governing headstones in the cemeteries where his products will end up. Each cemetery allows only headstones of certain sizes and specific materials to be placed on its grounds. Many cemeteries even have subsections with more specific rules.


Most bylaws governing headstones are of a practical nature: all Connecticut cemeteries require headstones to be made of granite, not marble, because marble erodes quickly in the local climate. Some, however, concern religious beliefs. The Catholic Cemetery Association (CCA) requires that all tombstones in their cemeteries have a certain amount of religious iconography-praying hands, large crosses, and images of saints are all strongly encouraged. Pat Sr. finds the specific percentages that the CCA dictates baffling. "We still can't figure out what the hell they're talking about," he says.


Other customers choose more secular images to rest alongside their loved ones. In particular, Pat Sr. notes that many customers have requested alcohol-related engravings-martini glasses, Manhattan glasses, even detailed Budweiser cans. "I guess they enjoyed the time they spent drinking together," he says.


For such an attention-grabbing storefront, Pat Sr. is lucky to suffer little vandalism or defacement of his property. The only incident he can recall occurred a couple of years ago when one of the headstones in front of the store disappeared in the middle of the night. "The police got a kick out of it," he says. "It was very unprofessionally done-it had to be a frat."


Technological changes aside, selling headstones seems like a relatively non-transient business: there's a steady demand for product, and little direct competition. Despite this, Pat Sr. says that he's seen business dwindle during his years in the industry. "Monuments have gotten smaller and smaller," he says. "Cemeteries have to keep sizes down-they're running out of space." He also points to young people's lack of interest in the business: "I've found that when people reach the age of retirement, no one takes over-they go out of business. I've known three places that's happened to in the past couple of years."


Nevertheless, Pat Sr. has little fear of his store following in the wake of his now-defunct competition. He's confident that when he retires, his own son, Pat Jr., who currently works alongside his father, will keep the family business alive. After all, for the Giordano's, their store is a tradition in the vein of family-run tailors and furniture stores-except, instead of inseams or ottomans, their business revolves around "the deceased."


**Title:  Untitled**
**Author: Helen Eckinger**
**Page number(s): 11**

(This section contains only bullet points and page numbers, no prose.)




**Title: NIGHT AT YALE**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
' 
• 
, 
v 
., 
. 
NIGHT AT YALE/ cu."~ 
Bisexual Transgendered 
~.u.Cl group for all undergraduate queer orgal 
their weekly meetin. A handful of students 
of a dreary building on Crown Street, · 
avoid bankruptcy and how to best vocalize the 
queer student community. The meeting decries 
ception that the queer student community at Y: 
reputation based on the University's ample . 
spread social liberalism, and relatively in 
ty. 


Despite its "gay-friendly' reputation,,.Yale 
to many of its peer universities, ihdudinfolj 
Pennsylvania and Stanford, in 
'D; 
for LGBT students and the queer 
deep frustration for many 
policies and attitudes when 
When Charlie '-'Cl u.u. 
from the Eastman School 
not what he had anticipated: 
expecting a whole 
and there just wasn't. Y, 
facilities and things that 
.:ti 
-~ 
NOT THAT YAI.E"MCJ(S 
Yalies, 
Action, and 
dent-run, and thus 
organizations. Many of 
gling to achieve co 
group becomes defunct, 
another group, leaving 
out of touch. This 
tralized" approach to 
Unlike many othet 

member to deal with the needs of queer students. As a result, Yale's 
so-called "queer resource center" -which also doubles as the the Co-
op's meeting space-has no regular open hours. Students in need of 
advice, information, or . help are usually forced to turn elsewhere. 
Similarly, there is no counseling service offered to students dealing 
specifically with issues of their sexual or gender identity, and fresh-
men counselors are selected without consideration of their openness 
to LGBT discussion. Finally, Yale allocates no part of its budget to 
addressing the social needs of this segment of its student population. 
When Justin Ross and Arianna Davlos became coordinators of 
the Co-op, the second sem~ster of their freshmen years, they walked 
into a challenge: "When we took over," says Ari, "we were facing 
bankruptcy, and we were constantly worrying about sources of 
funding. We went through a stag~ of real pessimism where we near-
ly gave up. Even now, it's a huge strain-we sometimes joke that we 
should stop attending classes altogether and just run the Co-op." 
Unlike queer student umbrella groups at many other universi-
ties, the Co-op must petition for yearly funding from the 
Undergraduate 
Organization's 
Funding 
Committee, rather than 
receiving an allocated bud-
get from Yale. According to '' 
Charlie, a Co-op member, 
this means that the group 
• I se 
I CIS 
for necessary change. they hope to utilize the same tactics Stanford 
students employed to mobilize their University, reminding the 
Administration that students only perform well academically when 
they are socially comfortable and happy. 

The push for a queer space is not a push for isolation. "So 
many queer students here are worried about self-segregation," says 
Ari, "but that's not what an LGBT space would be about." Yale's 
cultural houses were · creat~d to facilitate integration and celebration 
of shared background, not to isolate the community; a Queer 
House, advocates insist, would serve that same function .. It would 
also provide a physiCal space to help build a cohesive community. 

The current fragmentation does not allow for a unified voice with 
which to argue for change. 

This fragmentation may be one reason for the relative lack of 
queer activism . which ·one might expect to thrive on a campus as 
politically active and liberal as Yale's. But here queer student 
activists often find themselves defending the purpose of their advo-
cacyt, instead of actually fighting for change. This brickwall may be 
0 
ere 
•• 
us 
a product of tolerance: the lack 
of overt homophobia means 
that students may be more like-
ly to question the need for 
activism. Loren Krywanczyk is 
a queer student organizer and 
also the leader of Trans Action .. 
He notes: "You have to justify 
to people that there really is a 
problem-that 
homophobia 
"has to go through the 
same channels [for fund-
ing] as the Tea Club. The 
Tea Club is great," he says, 
"but that's just oddD." This 
dependence 
on 
annual 
funding from the UOFC 
keeps the Co-op and its 
subsidiary organizations in 
constant financial peril. 
They rarely have enough 
money to achieve their 
cou 
·I nore 
I 
an 
really does exist. Only then can 
you go about trying to dispel 
. . 
ore. 
can nu 
ec 
goals, and face bankruptcy 
if they are not able to draw 
in large proceeds from dances and other social events. 
There is not just a question of funding, but also a question of 
space. For most concerned student and faculty members at Yale, the 
absence of an official space for queer students, such as a Queer 
House, is a pressing issue. Stanford University boasts a spacious ·and 
recently renovated on-campus Queer Center in a converted fire sta-
tion, with two full-time staff members, paid student coordinators, 
support groups and counseling sessions. It is a facility in which stu-
dents-queer and straight alike-come to study, eat, hang out and 
organize. Co-op heads Justin and Ari visited the Center last year, 
and described it as having a "thriving, fun, and supportive" atmos-
phere, in marked contrast to the back room of 305 Crown Street to 
which the Yale Co-op has been relegated. In addition, each depart-
ment at Stanford designates a faculty member who is openly LGBT 
and is willing to talk to students about LGBT issues. "These little 
things can make a big difference," says Justin, "The more I investi-
gate other schools, the more I realize Yale is lagging behind." 
Justin and Ari believe that Yale should use Stanford as a model 
14 
• en 
. , 
It. 
But recently, an uncharac-
teristically public sign of anti-
gay sentiment arrived uninvit-
ed at Yale's doorstep. Beenie 
Man, a rap artist notorious for 
his lyrics inciting people to 
lynch and bum gays, played at 
Toad's in October, despite fer-
vent protest and a signed petition from Yale's queer-friendly com-
munity. "It was a real slap in the face," comments Loren, who orga- · 
nized the protest, "particularly on the anniversary of Matthew 
Shepard's murder, one of the worst recent cases of homophobia." 

And yet, proving that homophobia exists within Yale is not as 
hard as it may seem. The lack of persistent, overt anti-gay sentiment 
obscures the homophobia that does exist, which is private and hard 
to confront. Justin remembers how he was chalking an advertise-
ment for a queer dance on the co~bles of Old Campuslast year, 
wqen a small group of intoxicated Yale students began spitting on 
the sign and shouting homophobic slurs. 

But these instances are perhaps more frequent than at other 
sc\l:ools. Charlie reflects on the environment at Eastman School of 
~sic: "It was so much easier to pull together an active gay com-
I¥nity based on activism, because there were always r~ent acts of 
~emophobia in the collective memory., Charlie recalls putting up 
posters for queer activities, only to have them defamed the next 
mprning by the Christian Fellowship, and fraternity members 
THE NEW jOURNAL 

In response to Toad's refusal to cancel the Beenie Man show, 
"' 
and in honor of Shepard's death, members and allies of the queer 
student community held a candlelight vigil outside of the bar, pass-
ing out fliers and speaking with Toad's customers. In response, they 
were verbally abused and insulted. One girl, Justin and Ari remem-
ber, took a flier, declared that "going in was ok, because her aunt was 
gay," and tnen proceeded inside. More than rampant homophobia, 
complacency-that "some-of-my-best-friends-are-gay" attitude-
defines much of the Yale population's attitudes towards queer issues. 


Because of ·the lack of sufficient support for queer activism, 
Charlie believes that the path towards change is to temporarily put 
aside serious issues, and to focus instead on throwing 
good LGBT parties to rally the community. To this 
end, he and William Cornwell started GaYalies, a 
queer student group that emphasizes the social aS"'"" 
of queer life at · Yale. With their catchy posters-
"Because Britney's a fairy, and so are you" -Ga Yalies 
hopes to use social events as the first step towards 
building a more unified queer community that can then 
agitate for .Fhange. "If I had tried to create a society of 
activism," e:lSplains Charlie, "it wouldn't have worked-
which is why we bill Ga YaJies as a social thing q It's a first 
step to bettering the community." So far, the endeavor seems to be 
a successful one: the GaYalies parties have been well-attended by a 
mixture of undergraduates, graduate s:tudents, professors and non-
Yale students. Charlie hopes the Friday night excitement will soon 
translate into a more serious movement. 
This tactic fits the vision of the Co-op. Says Justin: "When we 
took over the Co-op, we decided to begin with social events to cre-
ate a cohesive community-an active and vibrant queer community 
needs to be demonstrated to the Administration." Ari echoes the 
importance of this approach, "Although (the presence of the queer 
community] seems obvious to students, the Administration just 
isn't aware enough." 

ESPITE ITS LACK OF SUPPORT FOR QUEER STUDENTS, Yale is 
quickly on its way to becoming the pre-eminent academic 
institution for gay, lesbian and queer studies-perhaps 
affirming, in a new way, its identity as the "gay Ivy'". Unlike most 
other universities in the U.S., Yale has been relatively eager to 
embrace queer studies as a serious academic field, something that 
has yet to occur at many other schools across the globe. In doing so, 
Yale has bucked the social-first trend of most universities, taking 
queer academic seriously before seriously supporting queer 
student life. 

Within the recently renamed Women's, Gender, and Sexuality 
Studies (WGSS) department, students are presented with a wfde 
array of course choices dealing with academic approaches to issues 
of sexuality and gender identity as categories of cultural analysis. 
· WGSS majors can choose from one of two tracks: Women's thd 
Gender Studies or Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Sexuality Studies. The 
department is also home to the Larry Kramer Initiative for LesbHln 
and Gay Studies, a five-year long academic endeavor begun in 2062 
, which brings in visiting professors to teach at Yale and host a 
number of academic lectures, symposia, and special events relatiHg 
OcToBER 2004 
to LGBT studies . 

Yale's determination to be at the academic forefront has led it 
to support queer academics over the social needs of its own queer 
community. Jonathan Katz, the Executive Coordinator ofLKI, says, 
"If I were forced into a stark choice, I would say that I am glad Yale 
has chosen to support queer academia first, because it has had an 
impact that has been felt outside ofYale itself." But Katz is also the 
first to admit that social change is 
long overdue: "But I think it's 
time. It's striking to me that a 
university 
that 
supports 
LGBT queer studies can fail to 
understand the palpable 
stress among queer stu-
dents here." 

HAT "PALPABLE stress," unrecognized or at least unaddressed by 
the Yale Administration, has meant that professors like Katz 
end up picking up much of the slack where the institution 
falls short. Queer students often describe Katz as a "super hero" who 
is always willing to go the extra mile when it comes to supporting 
activism. Likewise, many Yale students meet LKI Professor Seth 
Silberman at queer social events before meeting him in the class-
room. While in the classroom Katz insists that LKI is a purely aca-
demic endeavor, rightfully treated as such by Yale, he acknowledges 
that he goes beyond the call of his academic duty; "I am stretched 
thin-the vast majority of my time is spent pursuing academic excel-
lence for LKI, but I would have to be willfully uncaring to ignore 
unmet need." While it is rumored that the Yale Administration 
looks at Katz' involvement in queer student organizing with an 
unsympathetic eye, he serves a need that is otherwise ignored, stu-
dents say-and until someone else is hired to fill this role, he and 
other concerned faculty members will have to fill in. 

Even on the academic front, however, there is room for 
improvement within the program. The Womens, Gender, and 
Sexuality Studies Department l~cks a tenure track for a sexuality 
specialist, meaning that there is, of now, no possibility of a queer 
studies specialist finding a permanent home at Yale. Moreover, while 
LKI ·brings in exciting innovators from the field, it is only a five-
year long program, and LKI professors only have two year-long con-
tracts. For Silbennan, that means that his relationships with his stu-
dents are short-lived: "My students are so fantastic 0 but I'm not 
going to be here to work on most of their senior essays with them," 
he says sadly. The destiny of LKI is unclear. After it completes its 
five-year 
lifespan 
in 
2007, 
it 
might 
be 
over 
for good. 

Consequently, as more queer students come to Yale because of 
its burgeoning academic offerings, more queer students will suffer 
from Yale's lack of social support. "Yale is not only known as the 
gay Ivy, it is also the growing leader in LGBT academia," says 
Justin, who came to Yale partly for the queer studies program. 
"Although it is attracting more LGBT students, it is not address-
ing their social needs to help them perform.'' Justin foresees the rip-
ple effect of Yale's myopia. ~It's such a gaping problem for us, we 
don't understand how others don't see it." 
15 



**Title: The Gay Ivy?**
**Author: Amia Srinivasan**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
PROBLEM APPEARS TO BE ROOTED in both financial and 
social causes. Some students and faculty point towards Yale's 
hesitance to invest heavily during its "no growth" period; 
' 
others emphasize the lack of awareness of the Yale Administration 
about LGBT issues. But students and faculty voice one common 
and recurring theme: complacency. Professor Silberman explains the 
problem in these terms: "Despite the obvious shortcomings, things 
are pretty good here. And that 'pretty-goodness' is an excuse not to 
change things." 

While some queer students question the need for a queer house 
or social support, Justin :warns that it is dangerous to assume that 
every queer student will fit easily into the Yale without a more struc-
tured LGBT social program. "We're not just doing this for us. Not 
everyone who comes here is going to be as comfortable~" 

Ari points to the dearth of lesbian students at Yale-she esti-
mates the undergraduate population to be less than fifty-and under-
scores that being a gay woman is not as easy as being a gay man at 
Yale. "There is little to no community of queer women ... gay men 
have been at Yale so long, but lesbians still remain a real minority. 
This translates into even less support [for queer w<:>men]." 

Similarly, students who are trans or coping with trans issues 
find themselves outside of the neat "gay Yalie" conception. With 
even fewer trans students than queer women on Yale's campus, trans 
students make a case for greater ·institutionalized support. Queer 
issues and trans issues are not entirely the same thing-'queer' relat-
ing to one's sexuality, and 'trans' to one's gender identity-still their 
concerns often overlap. Loren has been an active leader of Yale's 
queer community since his freshman year, but has recently started 
to extend his activism to raise awareness· of the needs of trans stu- · 
dents. In doing so, he has realized that while Yale underserves the 
queer community as a whole, its policies are even less supportive of 
trans students. 

How are single-sex suites to accommodate a trans-male student? 
And how are trans students supposed to categorize their "sex" when . 
· · they apply to Yale? How is an institution to take seriously not just 
one's sex, but one's gender identity? Beyond bringing these issues to 
light, of trans students demonstrates that the "gay issue" is not a 
simple one. While some queer students find their home easily at the 
"gay Ivy," others face deep~r challenges. 

Katz echoes this sentiment, pointing in particular to the diffi-
culty some students face with coming out; "People who come out 
[at Yale] do so, overwhelmingly, individually. Coming out is greatly 
eased by a community context-but we have no network for that 
here." Katz adds that this often places a particular burden on ·some 
international members of the community: "My sense is that a per-
centage of all international students choose to study abroad based 
on reasons other than just academics. It's particularly charged as 
Yale becomes more global, and we have students who are glimpsing 
possibilities that are literally foreclosed in their home countries." 

Loren is making slow headway in his attempt to change Yale 
policies to be more trans-aware and friendly. In a series of meetings 
held this year, Loren spoke to Associate Dean of Yale College and 
Dean of Student Affairs Betty Trachtenberg in an attempt to bolster 
administrative awareness about trans issues. The result, he hopes, 
will be some small but significant changes in Yale policy: inclusion 
of "gender identity" in its anti-discrimination policy; changes in 
housing policy to accommodate trans students; and altering the Yale 
application to allow students the option of including written com-
ments about their gender identity, rather than just ticking the 
"male" or "female" boxes. The overall effect of these changes, Loren 
says, will be a resounding message that Yale "institutionally wel-
l " 
comes trans peop e. 

Despite disappointment over Yale's response to queer student 
needs, there are signs that Yale may be creeping forward. One sign 
of progress is the ·recently created LGBT Advisory Committee, a 
body that brings queer student and faculty leaders from Yale College 
and the graduate . schools, together with members of the 
Administration. Begun by Jesse Reed, Program Coordinator of the 
Office of Diversity and Eqt1al Opportunity, the committee seeks to 
centralize the queer resources that currently exist on the Yale cam-
pus, and to gain a broader perspective on the needs of the commu-
nity. PartiCipants hope this initial discussion will catalyze substan-
tial reform. 

The hope that this committee brings is tempered by realism. 
Ventures like this have occurred before at Yale, only to fizzle out 
without making any real progress. And while some prominent 
administrators are beginning to lend a thoughtful ear to queer con-
cerns, including Dean Betty Trachtenberg, they have taken little 
action. 

Despite differing levels of optimism about the Yale 
Administration's readiness, there is a shared sentiment within the 
community about what it will take to effect change. A fragmented 
and complacent community will not suffice; for Yale to become 
institutionally more queer-friendly, concerned students-queer and 
straight-must put pressure on the University. "If the Administration 
is reticent, it's the students' responsibility," Charlie says, "Students 
have to represent their needs and vocalize them." 

· Professor Silberman, who will be leaving at the end of this year 
when his two-year contract with Yale expires, hopes that his students 
will witness changes that he will not be around to see: "What I tell 
my students is that Yale is an institution with 300 years of history-
it is therefore very cautious and has a long-term perspective on 
things, necessarily. Students need to be very articulate, vocal, and 
persistent about what they want." But Silberman reminds his stu-
dents that the onus lies on them to override Yale's complacency 
about queer issues; "LKI itself got here by polemicism-Yale just 
couldn't ignore it anymore. A student outcry can nudge change." 

If the queer community at Yale can push Yale to live up to its 
nickname, then it can be the "gay Ivy" not by default, but by 
principle. 

Amia Srinivasan is on the staff ofTNJ. 
THE NEW jol.JRNAL 


**Title:  Korean Dreams in New Haven**
**Author:  [Author not specified]**
**Page number(s): 18**

VERY DAY SERA KIM AND ANNIE PARK 
spend three hours commuting from 
Queens, New York to open up shop on 
the corner of College and Crown St., where 
none of their customers speak Korean. 

Annie had worked for over 14 years as a 
manicurist in Queens, but bought into the 
New Haven deal when Sera decided to buy 
a nail salon about three years . ago. 

"Good location, but not busy now," 
. 
Annie says, waving her arm at the empty 
manicure stations. "Oh my god, it's dead in 
here!" For a Thursday, business is frustrat-
ingly slow. Annie and Sera are waiting at 
the register, wondering if they will break 
even today. 

Annie, straight faced, with her hair in 
a tight bun, looks her part-a keen business 
woman who has spent decades just making 
ends meet. In Korean, Annie is an expert 
conversationalist, but when she switches to 
English, her choppy pidgin is as economi-
cal as her appearance. "She really likes it 
here," says Annie, pointing at Sera after a 
long conference in Korean with her friend, 
"but meD" --she makes a gesture as if to say, 
she could be better. "Very big problem for 
the language. "I want to perfect speak. But I 
can't, 
so 
I 
sayD;" 
She 
makes 
the 
• 
gesture agam. 

Sera and her husband came to the 
United States because they believed their 
sons would be better served with an 
American college degree. Annie, too, came 
fourteen years ago to give her daughter an 
American education. The two met at the 
Korean church in Queens where Sera's hus-
band now serves as pastor. The church has 
served as both an internal and external net-
work. It helped them adapt to the neigh-
borhood and then raise the resources to 
branch out of it in favor of this new one. 

Sera, a relative newcomer to the coun-
try compared to Annie, is a former full-
time housewife. Now, like many other 
immigrants, she is building her own 
American dream: she has opened a store in 
a new town where the business is said to be 
good, in order to put her two sons through 
college. 

Sera struggles to explain with the little 
English that she knows. "I spend a lot of 
money for my sons' education in this coun-
try," she says. Her older son is at Buffalo 
University, and her younger son is prepar-
ing for the SATs. She doesn't see him 
very much. 

But Sera doesn't seem unhappy. If she 
feels resigned to the fact that she is dedicat-
ing her middle age to daily three-hour com-
mutes, she doesn't show it. Above all, she's 
a "mommy," she says, and if her sons are 
happy, she is happy. 

Crossing the Long Island Sound is not 
a new immigration pattern. New Haven 
prides itself on a long history of ethnic 
diversity, but because the city is dominated . 
by black and white issues, with an occa-
sional mention of the Hispanic population, 
most discussions focus on race relations of 
these groups. Only 3.9 percent of the popu-
lation is identified as Asian. Most· new· 
immigrants, even those who have heard of 
New Haven, deem New York City a more 
logical place to settle. The area of Queens 
where Annie once worked was filled with · 
people who spoke her language. But recent-
ly, New Haven has lured a few entrepre-
. neurs away from those communities. 

Why did Annie and Sera leave the 
comfort of their original Korean enclave in 
New York and risk the few resources they 
had to start their own business? Why did 
they walk out of their comfort zone, the 
surrogate home of Korean Queens, and 
into the unknown? 

In an immigrant neighborhood, com-
petition is fierce. Despite the fact that New 
York's Asian immigrant community is 
strong and cohesive, everyone is trying to 
make money using a similar skill set. 
Restaurants, delis, laundromats and mani-
cure salons are on every block, fighting for 
the same clientele. In New Haven, on a 
quiet day like today, the move seems like a 
mistake, but the truth is, Annie and Sera 
don't have nearly as many competitors on 
the corner of College and Crown as they 
would on a corner in Queens. 

The two friends get a strong returning 
Yale clientele and a decent amount of busi-
ness from locals. They earn enough profit 
to make it worth the demanding schedule, 
· the risk, the loneliness, and the commute. 
They have the satisfaction of putting their 
children through college. , For these women, 
there has never been another option. They 
live for their families. 

For storeowners wi~ longer history in 
New Haven, however, family has become 
synonymous with business. Annie and Sera 
still have one foot in ~ew York and one 
foot in New Haven. But other immigrant 
families have transplantep their en~re lives 
here. Although Peter Whang, one of the 
owners of Gourmet Heaven, grew up watch-
·ing his parents run delis in Manhattan, he 
now lives in Connecticut. The store he left 
in New York was a family business, which 
his parents started before he was born, more 
than thirty years ago. Many of his parents' 
friends also ran delis, tapping into a busi-
ness pattern that worked within the ~orean 
immigrant community, which burgeoned 
during the 60s, 70s, and 80s. But in the past 
five years, delis have been closing left and 
right. 

"It just doesn't make sense anymore," 
said Peter, who was born and bred in 
Manhattan. "My feeling is that the 
Manhattan area is tapped out. Delis are a 
dime a dozen there. The rents are astro-
nomical; and the economic downturn has 
something to do with it, too." One store-
front that his family had leased for several 
years, he recalled, started asking $75,000 a 
month. The September 11 terrorist attacks 
were a particularly personal trauma for the 
Whangs, who owned a deli inside the World 
Trade Center. Pressured by the increased 
number of delis in the area and the eco-
nomic downturn, the Whangs looked 
to move. 

When Bruce Alexander, Yale's Director 
of New Haven and State Affairs, aggressive-
ly recruited the Whangs to open a deli in 
New Haven, they were ready for change. 
Peter's brother-in-law Chung Cho opened 
the first New Haven Gourmet Heaven on 
Broadway in March of 2001. 

Representatives 
from 
. Bruce 
Alexander's office specifically chose the 
Whang deli out of all the delis in 
Manhattan. During a formal trip to 
Manhattan, Alexander and his representa-
tives entered and asked to speak with the 
owner. Eventually, they persuaded the 
Whangs to make a move out of a city they 
have called home for decades. 

And if sales are any measurement, a 24-
hour Manhattan-style deli is just what New 
Haven needed. The Yale student response to 
the first store was immediate. Although 
prices are high for the average student bud-
get, Gourmet Heaven is one of the only 24-
hour food sources available. Savvy to the 
health-consciousness of a college campus, 
the Whangs take special care to serve organ-
ic and high quality food. They fill their 
drink refrigerator with designer juice bottles 
instead of clunky family-sized cartons. 
THE NEw JouRNAL 



**Title: Gourmet Heaven: A New Haven Success Story**
**Author: Evelyn Shih**
**Page number(s): 19-20**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I 
Twenty years of experience in Manhattan 
paid off for Chung Cho. 
The Whangs deliver exactly what Yale 
recruited them for. With a clean, colorful 
storefront on Broadway, Gourmet Heaven 
brings dining and grocery options to a 
street frequented by students. No alcohol or 
cigarettes are sold, because as Peter said, "It 
just seems inconsistent with the healthy 
concept of food." 
The store fits 
the image Yale's 
Development Office wanted to create for 
Broadway. Hong Kong Grocery, a thirteen-
year veteran of Whitney Avenue was denied 
a Broadway spot because their store was 
"too messy," according to owner Guo 
Zengguang. Their extensive grocery inven-
tory and attached Chinese restaurant were 
not 
enough 
to 
convince 
Yale's 
Development Office that they were a good 
fit for Broadway. Its smell of raw fish and 
exotic vegetables were considered . too far 
from the mainstream. 

AS BUSINESS BEGAN TO PICK UP, the 
Whang family devoted more of its 
time and energy to their New Haven · 
business. "The Manhattan stores became an 
afterthought," said Peter. "If we franchise in 
New England, it would be out of a New 
Haven base," he said. "Yale invested in us, 
and in a way, relocating is our way of 
returning that good will." 
But in some ways, New York City is 
hard to leave behind. The two New Haven 
Gourmet Heavens receive produce shipped 
daily from Huntspoint Market in _the 
Bronx,. the same provider that they've had 
for more than thirty years. When he first 
joined the family business, Peter personally 
made the drive every two days. 
"It's certainly not the easy way to do 
things, but you know, it's a trust thing," he 
said "We know that the produce is of a cer-
tain 
quality, 
and 
the 
customers 
deserve that." 
Peter, who had been working in 
California as a web developer, was called 
back to the East Coast to help out with the 
second Gourmet Heaven, now open on 
Whitney Avenue across the street from 
Hong Kong Grocery. He was out of a job 
after the dot com bubble burst; but for 
Peter, giving up an Internet career to work 
in the deli business meant coming back to 
his root~ He decided that his place was with 
his family. 
NOVEMBER 2004 
"It's funny, I got a college degree, l;>ut 
here I am, becomiQg my dad." He pauses, 
nostalgic. "Most people would see that as a 
step down. But I'm proud of it, if I can be 
half the man my dad is. 
I watched him 
struggle to keep up the business. It's hard, 
especially if you don't speak the language." 
So far, ·life in Connecticut is treating 
Peter well, even though the Yankee fan in 
him still bristles when Red Sox victories 
ignite celebration across New England. 
Unlike his brother-in-law, who went to · 
high school in Korea, he is a native English 
speaker, and over the past couple of years 
has become the public face of Gourmet 
Heaven. He has also been working to shift 
the Whitney Avenue store away from the 
Broadway model to fit the demographic of 
the area. Whereas the salad bar and buffet 
options are extremely important for the 
students on Broadway, residential complex-
es near Whitney appreciate the sale of pro-
4uce and specialized organic goods. Law 
offices in the locale provide a steady 
lunchtime sandwich business as well. 
· "It's definitely a change of pace, and 
nothing can duplicate the sheer volume you 
get in Manhattan," he said. "But people 
here are friendly-there is definitely attitude 
in Manhattan-and we're just a big family." 
A growing sense of community for his new 
home is, according to Peter, one of the 
biggest perks of his new career. 
For new storeowners like Peter, Annie, 
and Sera, serving the customer better than 
the competition is essential to success. And 
that means going the extra mile to under-
stand the needs of an unfamiliar communi-
ty. They know that good service brings cus-
tomers back. Sera Nail Salon and Gourmet 
-~ 
Heaven, both young businesses, have had a 
New Haven tenure shorter than a college 
student's four-year stay, but their owners 
have had more intimate contact with the 
city than the average Yalie. 
Annie projects a concerned motherly 
persona toward her young female clientele. 
She stands up briskly to welcome her first 
customer of the hour. 
"How are you?" she asks, helping take 
off the coat of a girl who seemed accus-
tomed to this ritUal. 
"My nails are a mess!" she complained. 
"Long time!""- countered Annie in the 
tone of maternal ~eprimand. 
"Yeah, it's been three weeks," admitted 
the girl. She sat down across from Annie at 
• 
a mamcure statiOn. 
Annie is a pro of 14 years. She makes 
small talk with her client while shaping 
nails deftly. Even though she is dissatisfied 
with her English skills Annie knows how to 
gain the trust of her devoted client base. 
ither by appealing to the University or 
by tapping into the needs of the local 
clientele, these enterprising new store-
owners are part of a new trend of recent 
emigrant businesses opening up in small 
cities and rural areas. With a hardworking 
immigrant ethic and a strong tendency to 
rally around the family unit, they make 
their small businesses in New Haven more 
profitable than Manhattan ventures. They 
are able to capitalize on existing consumer 
populations in· New Haven, finding niches 
left empty by locals. 

When a vacancy arises, should Yale's 
Development office be looking for candi-
dates closer to home? The new faces in New 
Haven-Peter, Annie and Sera-have escaped 
the competition of New York City. But .to 
the Elm City, they have only brought it 
back. 
TNJ 
Evelyn Shih is on the staff <?fTNJ. 




**Correction**
**Author: The New Journal**
**Page number(s): 22**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The New Journal would like to 
apologize for an error on page 
21, vol.37, No.2 of the New 
Journal. Wei Su should actually 
have been referred to as 
Zhengguo Kang


**A Yale Anatomy Lesson**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

' 
n the gloomy sub-basements of Yale 
Medical's Brady Building, hallways 
snake beneath exposed industrial pip- · 
ing past stacks of cardboard boxes labeled 
"TOXIC: HUMAN WASTE." The temper-
ature begins to drop as I near Room 37, 
where a man in a lab coat with a thick 
Russian accent asks me what I'm doing 
"down here." I push my way through two 
stainless steel doors and it becomes clear 
why he asked: this is not a place often wan-
dered upon. 
Room 37 is the Yale Morgue the first 
stop for anyone who expires at Yale-New 
• 
Haven 
Hospital. 
Art Belanger, 
the 
morgue's manager -a giggly man who 
recalls the sea captain of the Tintin 
comics-calls the bodies he autopsies his 
"patients.'' He wears a sweater to work and 
· keeps a jug of methyl butane on an upper 
shelf, next to his motorcycle helmet. His 
office is small, windowless and lined with 
hundreds of boxes of Fluidshield surgical 
masks and Safeskin purple· nitrate gloves. 
In the comer stands a file cabinet straight 
out of the Twilight Zone: there must be 
over 300 miniature drawers labeled "Old 
Autopsy Files." 
The main function of the morgue is to 
store a body until the funeral director picks 
it up, or, in the case of twenty percent of 
Yale Hospital deaths, to perfonn an autop-
sy. Belanger and his crew do 230 autopsies 
every year on patients whose deaths are 
investigated either by the request of a doc-
tor, family member, or in the case of sus-
picious circumstances-"If it's an untimely 
death[] like accidents, homicides, etc. Then 
the state has the right not only to investi-
gate but to order an autopsy," says 
Belanger. 

Within the morgue, dark hallways feed 
into two sterile laboratories, each with two 
metal tables in the center of the rooms. 
The first table, scooped out like a bowl to 
contain and then drain the fluids, is where 
the technicians unload the body. The sec-
ond flat table displays a row of glinting 
surgical instruments along its left-hand 
side. "That's where we'll put the organs 
when we remove them," he says quickly, 
before walking to the second laboratory, 
where Maxwell-a graying, soft-spoken doc-
tor in a getup right out of Yi>ttng 
Frankenstein hoses dark, clotted blood into 
the drain. "He's just cleaning up from an 
autopsy of a fetus this mouain~" Art says, 
. 
and Maxwell nods. I shiver. This is not 
something I want to see. 
Though death has been conveniently 
concealed in the sub-basements of the 
morgue, packed in boxes stuck with neon 
stickers, and barricaded behind steel doors, 
it is no less real. I finger a small white card 
in my back pocket, and know what it says 
without reading: "My body has been donat-
ed to YALE UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF 
MEDICINE," it proclaims. 
There was a 
blank for my signature. I signed. When I 
called the Body Donation Network a few 
weeks ago, the secretary on the other end of 
the line asked me out of curiosity how old 
I was. My voice must have sounded young 
over the phone. "Nineteen?" she asked, 
again. "You're crazy." Maybe she's right. 
If everything goes according to plan, 
someday I will be lying here. Forget million 
dollar bequests, football fields and fellow-
ship grants. Giving ·a dead corpse to your 
alma mater is the most generous donation 
possible. 

I have chosen to donate my body 
"whole," which means it will be wheeled 
upstairs to the anatomy labs to help med~ 
ical students learn the Greek vocabulary for 
my insides. But if I really want my body 
donated to science, Art explains, I had bet-
ter pray I don't need an autopsy. "Medical 
doesn't accept autopsied bodies for dona-
tion," he explains, "because in autopsy aU 
the organs are removed, which is exactly 
what Medical students are going to want to 
do with their donated cadavers." 

Behind the autopsy lab, in a stuffy 
sideroom, these organs sit cooped up in 
plastic beach pails. Some are labeled "breast 
tissue," others "heart." Near a sink, three 
medical students are working quickly. 
"Today is brain cutting day," Art says. 
There's a bread knife on the counter and a 
blonde medical student named Amanda is 
laying banana-bread-thick slices of human 
brain onto numbered cookie trays lined 
with formaldehyde-soaked p~r towels . 
The numbers on the trays stand for 
patients: 212,213, 215. Art notes that 214 is 
missing. "It's standard to take out the brain 
in an autopsy, so maybe the family of 
patient 214 requested to restrict the autop-
sy to only the diseased organs. They didn't 
want anyone messing with what wasn't nee-
essary. " 

There's a pervading fear that tamper-
ing with the dead hurts them in some way. 
THE NEW joURNAL 


Today, these brains will be 
seen by a neurologist scanning 
for brain disease. What the 
doctor finds may further med-
ical science, and the brains 
themselves may enter . class-
rooms as examples to live for 
years in glass jars on distant 
upper shelves. But the missing 
brain of patient 214 can go 
only two ways: it will be 
buried or burnt. 

Though my body may 
never go through an autopsy 
a~d my· organs may go uncut, 
the little white card in my 
pocket ensures that I will end 
up here, on a gurney in the 
last room in Art's tour. 
Welcome to the freezer. Just 
above the do9r, a large button 
is twice label~d, "Emergency 
Release." I'm glad about the 
button, because I would not 
want to be stuck here. Art 
agrees. Though about 1200 
bodies come through this room every year, 
today there are only two-an amputated left 
leg of an Orthodox Jewish man wrapped up 
in a trash bag ("the Orthodox Jews believe 
our bodies must be buried whole, so a 
funeral director will keep it for twenty years 
or so until the poor guy dies"). There's also 
something bright in the other corner of the 
room. Motioning toward the pale body bag, 
Art says, "She's been here a month. No 
one's come to claim her yet," and then 
shakes his head. "It's my nightmare that 
that should happen to me, and I tell it to all 
the doctors upstairs. They know if I go, to 
come pick me up." 

Though it is a regular question in bis 
business, Art hasn't decided whether he 
wants to end up like his patients. "Really, 
I'm tom between three things," he says. 
"Whether I should have an autopsy, 
whether I should donate it to science, or-" 
he lingers, "whether I should just be cre-
mated and left alone." Most people choose 
to be "left alone." Even pathologists-who 
benefit directly from the knowledge accrued 
during autopsies-are not immune to the 
fear that maybe there is something disre-
spectful about disturbing the dead In the 
morgue, workers are superstitious, careful, 
scared-because in the "business of death" 
as they call it, death never really becomes a 
NoVEMBER 2004 

Ultimately, however, the route of our 
afterlives is not only ours to map. "It's real-
ly what the family decides," Art explains. 
'~If a donor has a card that says they'd like 
to donate their body to science, and the 
family says no, Yale is not going to go 
against the family. It's just not worth it for 
the University." If my family goes along 
with my decision, I will be part of the "very 
.small percent" of those who Art carts 
directly from the freezer to the s-econd 
floor, across the elevated walkway to 300 
Cedar Street-the heart of the. Yale School 
of Medicine and the home of Yale's 
Anatomy Department. 

he Anatomy Department both is 
and is not as I envisioned it. There 
is a predictably stark white hallway 
that seems to extend infinitely, but then 
again, amateur watercolor landscapes hang 
on the wall because someone who donated 
money to the department thought it 
looked "too sterile." True: there is a real 
skeleton peeping out from a comer, and a 
display of x-ray photographs; but there's 
also ·a homey quilt sewn by last year's 
anatomy class as a departing gift to their 
"donors." In the anatomy department, 
Art's "patients" become "donors." The 
word choice is deliberate. These people 
~ · .. , . . .. 
~ 
.. . 
... 
.. ' 
.. .. .. ,-
chose to end up here. These corpses carried 
the card. 

The lucky finder of a body with a 
donor card is asked to telephone Yale's 
"Anatomy Mortician." The voice on the 
other end of the line belongs to Phil Lapre, 
a smiley people-person who got his training 
at New York's Bellevue morgue at the peak 
of the AIDS epidemic. Today, he hands out 
caramel candies to anyone who enters his 
office and keeps framed photos of his two 
daughters · on an upper · shelf. Though his 
geniality seems out of place in this morbid 
profession, it's practically in the job 
description. As the anatomy morti<;ian, he 
is the first contact for anyone even vaguely 
considering full b<;>dy-donation. "We speak 
to donors if they have any questions, pro-
vide them with paperwork, give them coun-
sel." Phil tells potential donors as much as 
they'd like to know, stressing that donors 
are never recruited. "None of the people 
who donate to Yale are solicited. They come 
of their own volition and fill out the paper-
work that you received." But donors can 
always change their minds. The filing cabi-
nets pushed against every wall guard the 
paperwork of the undead who signed on 
but may never show up. 

For those who stick to their decision, 
Phil is also the first contact for the grieving 
family of the loved one who has wiJJed her 
23 

When a body is accepted for donation, 
it is wheeled up to the Anatomy Morgue-
affiliated with Yale School of Medicine. 
Here, no funeral homes are telephoned; no 
family members need to identify the 
corpse. This is the workroom where Phil 
prepares the bodies not' for display, but for 
dissection. 

For the fifty or so donors who come in 
every year, Phil's job is to keep them look-
ing as fresh as the day they arrived. 
Through a cut in the neck, a tube attached 
to a vat of formaldehyde runs a formalin 
solution through the donot:'s veins. Once 
the corpse is sufficiently saturated, the body 
stays in a freezer with fifty bedfellows until 
a day in August, when it will be wheeled out 
to the lab and studied by hundreds of sets 
of eyes. 

t is late August: One-hundred first-year 
medical students shuffle into a large 
amphitheater where they are greeted by. 
Dr. Bill Stewart and Dr. Lawrence Rizzolo, 
the two lead professors of first-year anato-
my-an academically and emotionally chal-
lenging class regarded as a Med school rite 
of passage. On the first day, the students 
don't 
dissect. 
Instead, 
they become 
"acquainted" with the donor they will soon 
dismantle. Most medical students approach 
the bodies with a chilling, robotic respect-
perhaps the donors expected as much. 
But donors probably didn't expect to 
be viewed by another brand of student 
entirely-over-eager sixteen-year-olds from 
Career High School-a public science mag-
net made up of mostly inner-city kids. They 
have never seen a dead body before. And, 
up until today, neither have I. 

It's no coincidence that the table in the 
center of the amphitheater in the Hope 
Medical building is the perfect size to curl 
up and nap on. This hall is modeled after 
old operation theaters, and the table was 
designed to hold the cadaver undergoing 
dissection. That's probably why Dr. Bill 
Stewart has chosen this room to speak to 
eighteen Career High School students and 
me. We are a fidgety audience. "Years ago," 
he says, motioning to an invisible corpse, 
"they would have been homeless people or 
criminals who didn't want to be dissected." 
Our ears perk up. 

Eighty years ago, the dead bodies that 
ended up here did not sign consent forms 
when they were living, and may not have 
I been so pleased to be plucked apart. 
In 
1824, when the grave of a 19-year-old West 
Haven resident, Bathsheba Smith was 
found plundered, angry townspeople point-
ed their pitchforks accusingly at the 
Medical School, then located at the inter-
section of Grove and Prospect Streets· where 
the SSS building sits today. Yale anatomy 
students had indeed stolen the body, just as 
they had stolen others before, and when 
Smith's corpse was found hastily reburied 
in the basement of the Medical School, 
New Haveners were furious. Fearful for 
their lives, anatomy students barricaded 
themselves in the medical building, while 
protestors outside pelted the windows with 
burning chunks of coal. Today Dr. Stewart 
assures us that the situation couldn't be 
more different than the "Dissection Riot of 
1824." 

"All the people upstairs donated 
their bodies," he emphasizes. "They would 
be excited to know . that people like you 
were looking at them." 

From a few rows behind, nervous whis-
pering signals that its time to go to the lab. 
"Are you feeling okay?" a·med student asks 
a girl who is on her way out. 
"Oh, yeah," she says. "Dead people just 
make me feel great." 
"Well, they're better that way," the stu-
dent assures her. "They can't do anything." 

Moving through the same hall-
ways that . the bodies travel from the 
morgue, Doctor Stewart, bubbling with 
excitement, asks me, as an aside, "Have you 
seen a body before?" The rest of the stu-
dents here have had to fill out waivers. 
"Nope," I say. 
"Are you ready?" 

ear the waistline of my labcoa4 a 
bloodstain runs in a perfect line. A 
medical student at the door of the 
classroom hands out masks, though Doctor 
Stewart doesn't take one. At firs4 I follow 
Stewart's lead. But the student warns me, 
"You're going to want this when you smell 
it." Gloves are also a necessity. One hun-
dred years ago, approximately one medical 
student in each graduating class would die 
from infection from the cadaver-a hand cut 
with a scalpel exposed to the cadaver's dis-
-
eased flesh would immediately result in 
infection. Putting the gloves and mask 
on, a tall boy turns to the girl on his left, 
and says excitedly, "This is just like 
E.R.," referring, of course, to the TV 
show, 
not 
hospital wing. 

Above the sink in the classroom 
there is a selection of tools-a bone saw 
for getting through the skull, a hammer 
and chisel for separating the segments of 
spinal cord. A table is covered with boxes 
of gloves, suture needles, sandwich bags 
for storing removed organs, flashlights 
for peering into dark spaces and, against 
the wall, red buckets to collect excess 
skin, which will later be incinerated. In 
the center of the room are three rows of 
four metal boxes that serve as temporary 
caskets. 

We separate into groups: four high 
schoolers, two med students, and one 
dead body. We are told by Dr. Stewart to 
"use the buddy system, and look out for 
each other." My buddy is Jonathan, an 
enthusiastic medical student who later 
blushes when he talks about the body of · 
a woman with a "third nipple." I'm glad 
he's watching out for me: "It can be a lit-
tle upsetting," Dr. Stewart assures us. "If 
you feel a little upset, leave the room and 
take a break." I've heard that the first 
dead body you see changes your life. 

In this momen4 I am waiting for 
my life to change. Two students, one on 
each end, unsnap the locks of the case 
and heave its lid open. All I can see is a 
mess of paper towels. It reminds me of 
my brother as a child-his favorite hide-
and-seek position was to wrap himself in 
bed sheets and lay splayed-out and still, 
trying hard not to breathe. The medical 
students uncover the body sheet by 
sheet. The skin is yellow and crumpled 
like a paper bag. We are invited to touch 
it. "It seems fake," a girl in my group 
says flatly. "It doesn't smell fake," a med 
student says. 

"It's clearly a person, but it's also 
dead," says my buddy Jonathan. "And 
it's hard to understand that." Though 
Stewart professes the body "isn't that 
messy ye4" it is pretty messy: the torso 
has been opened up like a ,car hood, and 
the ribs, brittle and yellow, lift open to a 
mass of pinks and blues. A Ziploc bag, 
oozing with pinkish water, contains the 



**Title: Anatomy Lesson**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 25-26**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I heart. The kids pass it around, and Clara tests us by asking if we can name all four chambers. Everything is a mash of slippery, greasy mush and looks nothing like the drawings of the human body I yawned at in high school science classrooms. "It's almost, in some ways," Clara says, thinking out loud, "as if we are more different on the inside than on the outside." 


A curious Career student asks why the face is still covered up. "That's just not to freak you out," Clara says candidly. "It's easier to go into surgery mode with the sheet over their face. It's sort of upsetting to think, 'Whoa, this is a person with a life and a family."' 


I take a deep breath and step back from the table. Jonathan looks at me with concern. "Whoa," I am thinking: "This could be me." 


"surgery mode" is not the point of first year anatomy. On the contrary, other medical schools have described Yale's anatomy courses as too "touchy-feely." 


"Most other medical schools," Dr. Rizzolo defends, "would say 'toughen up, suck in your gut."' Yale, instead, encourages students to feel. "We can't afford to deny our emotions: the rate of drug abuse and suicide in this profession is very high." To get the job done and to be a good surgeon, doctors need to deal with their fears to a certain extent. "What's the alternative? To become some kind of machine? 0 We don't want to suppress the qualities that make you a good caregiver. To do this you have to come to terms with your own feelings about death and dying." In Anatomy Classroom N331, the living are studying the dead and the dead are teaching the living. With the living hovering over, the dead lay on tables, their cloudy eyes staring toward the sky. 


And it's not until I'm halfway home-my lab coat shoved in the laundry bin, the latex residue from my bloody gloves violently scrubbed from my hands, that I realize I have never been so afraid of death. 


Each February, anatomy students gather in the Yale Medical Historical Library, a wooden room in a nearby building on Cedar Street, for the yearly "Service of Gratitude." Programs are passed about with a short list of speakers printed on the interior flap, but everyone here already knows what it says: the only invitees to this ceremony are the graduates of this anatomy class, who gather to present poems, songs, speeches, and artworks to the memory of their "donors." In 2002, the service included a poem by a student named Jena titled "Appalled;" in 2003, a story titled "Be not afraid." Every year, students use the forum to express mixed feelings about the practice. Last year, in the spring of 2004, one student denounced the practice of dissecting cadavers at all. 


"One student got up and said this was sacrilegious, that he just didn't buy it," said Rizzolo. "I remember the dissenting student very well," Stewart recalled. "He was unable to ever feel comfortable with it. Although he did it, and passed the course," he pauses, "he felt as if it was a violation." 


Instead of shunning the "dissenter," the two co-professors invited him to speak at next year's first class. "We think that there are probably elements of his feeling in just about all of the students," Stewart explained. "Every year there is one." 


This year, it's probably Roald, who as a Yale undergrad, with a degree in art, and is cast by his classmates as the sensitive student who always finds a way to disagree with his entire discussion group. "Every time I walk around I see people but I also sort of notice that they're walking bags of organs and water," Roald says. "I just think it's a sad fact that we have to adopt this world view." Everyone in my section is always saying, 'I've never been the same ever since I found that organ with my bare hands.' Well, I don't want to feel that change. I don't trust their enthusiasm. I think it's just a fine line that separates scientific considerations and morbid curiosity." 


Some schools have found that teaching from cadavers is outdated and are beginning to work with technology that images a 360 degree view of the interior of a human stitched together from thousands of MRI scans. Classes taught this way have tested just as well as classes taught from bodies, and even Dr. Stewart admits that "in 100 years, technology will probably replace the donor," though there are strong arguments against this literal de-humanization. 


Rizzolo and Stewart are careful when they speak to me about "donors." To them, questioning the donors' decision at all is disrespectful. Medical students are expected to be grateful. In this light Roald's stance is near heresy: "Maybe it's not respectful toward my donor to feel this way about dissecting her, but none of the stuff I'm doing to her is either," he says. "I personally feel really certain that this whole practice will be seen as outmoded and barbaric, just as grave-robbing does to us now." Though it may be systematized, he argues, the details are still hazy to most. 


Knowing the exact details of what will happen to your body is known as "informed consent." Stewart agrees that while donors know they will be dissected, "if you asked them what those procedures were and how they would appear when they were dissected, they would not be able to answer." And perhaps with good reason: dissection is grizzly, some argue if donors were fully informed they would rescind their generosity. Even Dr. Rizzolo, who speaks of the body as "an incredible machine, more fantastic than you can imagine," has been, to put it bluntly, grossed out. "The second time I did this, up until the dissection of the pelvis, everything seemed as though you could put it back together, and at the day's end, things were whole," Rizzolo says. "But with this procedure it seemed like so many mangled bodies-legs stuck out at angles you could not have stretched in life." 


These professors are maximally informed. And neither has chosen to donate his body for dissection. "If you go around a hospital and ask, you'll find that very few doctors would be willing to donate their bodies, and these are the people who benefited directly from it," Rizzolo says. Phil Lapre, the anatomy mortician, would also choose not to donate, and instead opt, like Belanger, for a quick cremation. When I ask Lawrence Rizzolo why the majority of doctors are unwilling to gut themselves for their own cause, he pauses: "My very non-scientific, informal response is that maybe they know too much of what goes on inside." 


If I was going to go ahead and donate, I thought I needed to be informed, to know "too much." But I may have been going about this all the wrong way.


Though physically, my donated body will follow the path I've been tracing, I won't actually be anywhere at all. So I turn towards the philosophical. Samuel Gorovitz-a Yale philosophy professor, ethicist, and author of Doctors' Dilemmas: Moral Conflict and Medical Care, who spends most of his time pondering the afterlife, argues that the question of donation is moot. 


"We must ask the question, 'should we care at all about what happens to our bodies after we're dead? Logically, the answer is 'no, of course not.' Because when we're dead, we don't exist anymore, and it shouldn't make any difference to us now." But Gorovitz understands that, strangely, logic is not at issue here: "The reality is that most of us do care." Gorovitz himself wouldn't donate anything. "I would choose cremation because I take pretty seriously the land use aspects around today's sprawling cemeteries." 


What values do I hold? And do they have anything to do with overcrowded cemeteries or a handful of students I will have never met? Shirley Neighbors, the teacher who created and currently teaches the publicized Career High School course, has calculated the benefits her students have received in multiple ways. At a Boston conference of the American Medical Association, Ms. Neighbors and Dr. Stewart presented statistics that they believe prove that high school students can learn anatomy. "Not only did they pass difficult exams," Ms. Neighbors says with pride, "Their grades in other classes went up when they took this class." This year, Dr. Stewart hopes the high schoolers' exposure to these bodies will prompt them to take their own health into stronger consideration: eat more vegetables, exercise regularly, and respect and appreciate their own bodies. He believes that their direct confrontation with death impacts their lives in a fundamental way, and understands that when we learn from the dead, we appreciate most what it means to be living. 


The majority of the bodies in the anatomy lab lived outside the ivied walls and now serve as "research tools" for the University. When Harvard University accepted a cadaver a few years ago, it came with a note (they often do). "I couldn't make it to Harvard as a youngster, but I'm coming now." The note is initially shocking, but it's worse when you learn that such letters are "typical." Whoever wrote that note did end up at Harvard, but only as chunks of skin in red pails lining a room. He ended up incinerated and disposed of. He went through corridors, freezers, embalmment rooms, classrooms. He ended up the way we all eventually do. 


Since seeing the bodies, I am constantly queasy. I have stopped eating meat. When I look at people's hands I hallucinate that I can see their tendons moving like streams. I pray. I have nightmares and cry when characters on TV shows die. Before I go on a road trip one weekend, I write a provisional will on the desktop of my computer. Everyone, even when wrapped in their wintry parkas and chattering busily in steamy cafes, seems to me packed and cold, "bags of organs and water." I suddenly want to control it all, to stop it, to pull the plug. I want to rip up my donor card. I want to be cremated, to go untouched. But I realize it doesn't matter. I will not really go to the morgue or to the snaking tunnels buried in Yale's basements. I will see nothing. I will hear nothing. And so I might as well give everything away.


Two weeks later, it's as if nothing ever changed. I suppose I've repressed it all, forgotten the bone saws and eyeballs, the bodies lined up in rows. There will be snappy stories that will bubble up in cocktail party conversations, or days when I shudder at the memory of some daydreamed image, but this is a piece of my life which refuses to fit with the rest. To leave the world of death is to leave a country to which you can never return. Perhaps it is hidden because we should not go there.


**Title: The Varmint and Stover at Yale**
**Author: Owen Johnson**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
he wind is blowing hard over. a sea of cold ~ars deafened by . 
·;:.,..--~icg~d_,between two othe~ novellas.that complete Johnson's The' 
:. 
a beating drum and the scream of a crowd. '!'he first kickoff_ 
Lawrenceville Storiei. Stover arrives at Yale "a big man from a big 
:::: •
sends the football up into the air, and aft~r a season of 
schooL", His success at football slates him early as a star in his 
· : : : .
waiting, two rivals rush to meet each other in the final test, the 
class,. u_ndoub.tedly dest~ned for one of.the three secret senior soci-
: .. :· 
ultimate Game. 
. . eties. Rather than coasting easily to the success of America's elite, 
• 
.. ~.; 
' 
"' 
The punt sails low over the heads of the opposing teams and 
. 
hmvever::Dihk finds himself challenged by the ideas of th~ "Jess 
bounces sporadically across the ground The ball is scooped up by 
. d~sirable?' elements of his class~ 'When he starts to "drop in" 
the halfback. and run across the 50'-yard-line, deep into defensive 
socially on these fringe elements, he finds himself off the beaten 
: • : 
territory. 
" 
. " 
. ~ga~lf, ~~~~ng one~
. again i~~o ~ lon~ly notoriety. . 
· 
The crowd echoes~ "Get the jump, Yale!" .· 
• . ·. 
~;~~~ Nowadays, .Lawrenceville s football team 1s hopeless, but 
> 
"Throw them back, Yale!" 
.:··· 
y, 
~~-)~6t7Jrding 'to Johnson, in Dm~'s 19th cen~ry ve~sion of my 
: • 
"Fight 'em back!" 
:.. .. 
: .. ;-: 
· .. 
~ . ,.: 
i";J ~-
· · ; p'teparatory school, reputations were made and broken on the 
: ::
"You've gQt.to, Yale-you've got to!".)~ ·' . ·•· · · · 
.:-_ · >' ·~ ,:., ~.spott:s ··field. The Lawrenceville "varsity eleven" of Dink's freshrr1an ::. :
"Oh you Yaleses." 
··· · · 
. . 
~ 
· "''":<~~:: .. ' . y~N: ~"scored on the Princeton varsity." Dink's own rejection by his ~ . • ;
. At t~e bottom_ of the ?de 1s John Humperdmk S~over, :has ·'· .1_c, '. ~ciuse~~tes originates on rl?-e field of a House baseball game (the . 4, 
: 
Rinky Dmk, the D1nk~ or JUSt Dmk .. we are all watching t~s .·. n:.., 
; -!9ugh equivalent of an intramural field). On his ~rst day of high 
.... ·--: 
freshman, usually a,skdlful end, playmg now at hal~ack on a : ~--~:\.; :~·:-:- :-s<;}lool, when lie misses a crucial catch, instead of following the 
hopeless team. 
c 
1 
.. :'>•:·:.'· .. ~. ·. -· 'play through, his fault sends ·him running o~ the field in fear. His 
I do not belong m th1s wnthmg mass of men, the Yahes that ~ ~ 
repu.t~tion does not recover until the next year, when, inches taller ~..:-
.. 
cheered Old Blue over a century ago. Th:se ~entleme~ urtders~and - :: _:,and. pounds h-eavier, his obstinacy and grit land him a place on the .. -
____ : 
the game of football better than I ever will and they expect _a r~_af. ; ,',. : ... ·schuol's fobtball team . . · 
"e 
• .. 
fighting_ match. Their parted hair and argyle sweater~ turq on me, · 
·-:.-·As Stover learns the rules of football, he also learns to live 
a girl, and shun me into the ~ether reach~s of the :rowd, up with 
' a~ong "men." In -this world,-women, ·especially the visiting sisters 
~~ .... 
the unfortunat~ s~dents duttfully attendmg to thetr guests. 
-
of. friends, are feared. They disrupt the rhythm of boy-bonding 
.~~ 
But I was 1nv1ted. I am the guest of Owen John~n, class o~ ·" i/ · under ~hich the school thrives. The Lawrenceville of 100 years ago : : ~
1~01, ~nd he has asked me to_watch _the struggle ofDmk S~over . . ·;:· 
pounded Latin and Greek into the heads of its students, but more • 
Dmk Is. t}:le h~ro of The Varmint a~d Stover at Yale-Jo~son s popu-
, 
-~mportantly, it instilled in them the. manly values the school con-
lar stones of hfe at the Lawrenc~V1lle School (~rol_ll which I gradu-
.Sid~red intrinsic .to success. s~uggling ·thro1:1gh adolescence, the 
ated in 2002) and at Yale in the late 19th centu.zy, !espectively. I _ 
·rough and tumble adventures of these young men could prove 
_ 
have followed Dink (and his creator) from the redl;>rick Houses · 
shocking to the more delicate sex. A:s·the introduction exhorts, "it 
... _ •
on the green Circle of Lawrenceville, New Jersey through Phelps 
goes ~without saying that those of you who intend to read parts of 
Gate, into the imposing halls of Yale. He has .f6llo-#ed me as well: 
this .volume .aloud to your wives should do so sparingly." 
my high school library proudly displayed a dozen copies of The 
Truthfully, th~ behavior of the school did shock my gentler sensi-
Lawrenceville Stories, a friend presented me wi$ St~er_ at Yale as a 
bilities-the n,ow-banned "boxer runs" of my days at Lawrenceville .. 
graduation present, and I was greeted at the Yale Boo.kstore upon 
when half(and sometimes fully) naked fifteen and sixteen-year-old 
my first arrival by sheathes of the newly-re-released volume. 1"1) 
, · boys sprinting wildly around my dorm in celebration-could in no -
meant to believe that Dink and I share the sam~ road: tl_le much-
,. 
way-prepare me for the scandals Johnson relates. The most memo- : 
vaunted "Lawrenceville Experience," followed by a prized Yale edu-
raple: in Dink's junior year, the entire school, optraged at the 
cation. I have long since admitted to myself that I am an original · 
shoddy way· the laundry service treated their clothes, rallies behind 
prep. And yet my·elitism falls far·froni Dink's football-filled, 
one boy, who le~ds the procession ?ressed only in tattered under-
womanless world where secret societies rule the school. Am I still 
garments and a tig4t black gym suit The few females to witness 
following in Dink Stover's footsteps? Or has Yale changed_ enough 
this s~epe. ~e -duly scandalized py such a blatant show of.mascu-
that Johnson's books tell a completely different story, only set iii 
li~e ·energy: ~· ·-: 
·. 
•-':~ · · 
. · · -
, : _ 
.· 
vaguely familiar surroundings? 
, ... 
.. These days, the danger of exposmg·a female reaQ.ership to. 
The Varmint first appeared in 1910, followed by Stover at Yale 
these stories may have less to do with shocking masculmity and 
in 1911. Dink Stover arrives at Lawrenceville a scamp and, after 
more to do with the shallow portrayal of female characters 
---:
originally being shunned by his peers, joins the football team, 
thr~ughout Johnson's narrative. Dink and his companions reduce 
- :
where he learns what it is to fight and to lead. The Varmint is sand-
women to a collage of pictures displayed in their common rooms 


--- Page 32 ---

~ -- . 
_ - and on their bureaus, as trophies and as a. necessary burden in a 
: .. -. man's life. In Stover at Yale, Dink meets the girl whom he later 
- ---· marries, but she exists only as a foil to his ambition, and doesn't 
#-
entireiy understand the sacrifices he makes for his ideals. In the 
: ·book, only the supposedly undesirable men wap.t educated 
.. ·women. This faction hails mostly from the Midwest, rather than 
_. 
from the stuffy New England prep school scene, but, as Stover 
realizes, their ideas will inform the future. 
At our own future alma mater, Dink indirectly helps to 
overthrow the system of favoritism that ushers the more tradi-
tional prep school boys .into sophomore societies, junior frater-
nities and the essential senior societies (Skull and Bones, Scroll 
and Key and Wolfs Head). After entering the system seamlessly, 
Dink balks at its mechanism when he instead becomes fascinat-
ed by the bright American dream of his less fortunate class-
mates. Rather than "dropping in" on the elite of his class, he 
.:; .. -
' :;: ' .. 
'~/!?'? . :::::: :::~::;,, ·:: 
.. . 
takes to sitting at the feet of an informal debate society, where 
he encounters Brockhurst, Owen Johnson's own alter ego and 
the intellectual heart of the novel. Brockhurst believes in 
America; he believes in the individual; and he believes that the 
Yale system is completely outdated. "Work for Yale 0 Bah! 
Sublime poppycock!" He rants against Stover's proposition that 
one must put his talents in the school's service. "Of all drivel 
preached to young Americans, this is the worst. I came to Yale 
for an education." Brockhurst rips through his comrades and the 
stultified information that they absorb from Yale courses and 
soon forget. He sees his school and its flaws as a paradigm of 
what's holding the whole country back: "What I criticize here, I 
32 
criticize in American life," he says. He argues for real education-
education about politics, contemporary art and the real world. He 
argues against elitism. Brockhurst's fierce individualism may 
reflect a classic American ideology, but has it really been reflected 
in today' s Yale? The Yale class of 2006 may be more diverse in 
some ways than its 1901 predecessors, but Lawrenceville sent six 
students to Yale in 2002-the same number that passed through 
Phelps Gate over a century ago. 
Yet Stover's Yale barely resembles ours. The residential col-
lege system is still three decades away; co-education, three more. 
While secret societies still recruit juniors to their ranks, now a 
cappella commandeers the rituals of Tap Night (in Stover's day, 
"tap" was a hefty slam on the back, rather than a frantic chorus 
accompanied by a huge cup of mysterious liquid). When Stover 
was on the· football team, he worried for weeks over his punts; if 
our football team only had him and his punts at the Game this 
year, we would eas-
ily best our 
enemy! 
Although 
Johnson's prose 
begs to be read out 
loud in a high 
Bostonian accent, 
he can still pull 
the modern reader, 
even a female one, 
swiftly and enjoy-
ably through 
Dink's boyhood 
and his growth as 
a man. This is a 
story about com-
ing of age. 
Moreover, the 
foundation of 
Dink's experience 
still holds true. At 
Yale, Dink not 
only enjoys the 
warmth of his 
teammates and the 
company of good 
friends, both 
inside and outside 
of his secret society, he also learns that Yale is a difficult place. 
On his very fust day of Yale, his .sophomore mentor, appropriate-
ly named Le Baron, tells him, "In every class there are just a small 
number of fellows who are able to do it and who will do it. All 
the rest don't count." 
Although he rejects Le Baron's point of view, Dink, still 
ambitious, cannot find peace with his less traditionally successful 
companions. Out from under the watchful eyes of his 
Lawrenceville masters, Dink solves his problems by drinking him-
self silly every night at Mory's. On the first train to Yale, he is 
certain he will conquer sophomore year, however he is deeply 
enmeshed in a struggle that he doesn't know how to solve. This 


--- Page 33 ---

battle of wills between classic society men and the less elite mem-
bers of the class, each trying to create their own path to success, is 
still relevant at Yale today. Cocky freshmen who arrive each year 
on Old Campus find themselves eye-to-eye with men and women 
who equal them in intelligence and drive. Just as Dink was 100 
year -ago, we are thrown among ambitious classmates, and what 
once came easily may now be a struggle. Like Dink Stover, we feel 
like "big men from big schools," but must learn how to live 
among others just as smart and driven as ourselves. Even todays . 
many Yalies still learn more from each other than from professors. 
In the end, elitism prevails for Dink. The very last man 
tapped for Skull and Bones, he is flooded with relief as he is wel-
comed back into the fold, receiving "the mark of approval from 
his own kind." Brockhurst, the visionary, remains outside the sys-
tem, spending his time questioning how Yale should interact with 
the rest of the country. In the 21st century, as Yalies flood the 
White House and vie for political hegemony, this question still 
rings loudly in our ears. Relevant as his questions are, Brockhurst's 
answers are of little help in defining what approach we can take 
today. The role ofYale in America has changed. Yale, a big school 
from a big league, must compete with up-and-coming Midwestern 
NoVEMBER 2004 
and Southern schools for power in the country. 
The meaning ofYale has changed, and no arena demonstrates 
this more clearly than the football field. Whereas Dink's efforts as 
the Yale tight end landed him a spot on the All-American roster, 
Yale football today has become more of a farce than an epic strug-
gle. But while many of us may not understand· the rules of foot-
ball, or what exactly an end does, we understand precisely what it 
is to win, what it is to beat Harvard, and what it is to carry the tri-
umphant shouts of our school up and out of the stadium. 
TNJ 
33 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 34-35**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"' 
~-
' 
llllN 
& 0 
:!1 'D'JI 
.. 
. . ' 
.. -.' .... " -
~' Co~· 
''·'~·-
c< 
• 3! 
. 
~ 
-
w 
, 
·. 
~. 
t:i 
. ~-' •. 
. ;til~ 
jj! 
« 
0 
·• ~!118 
o 
···"''IIIW· ~ 
·•·. 
··co;.·:·· <c.'· 
· " 
.., 
Iii ft" 
-~-
" 
..... •• 
:.;,;._::.::::-
=:-~:::::;.:;;:-:;s::~~-CY.;<::';::-:;%<:.'::::~::~-~::-~::_::<:-:-~ -
... 
.=$:0~?x--:~·--: 
---~~-~-
•• ''f;; <;y:<::>: '(If.~ : ~" . 'Jil~'% j ~ 
i!lJI 
'l 
'l~olo- -_: 
o:... 
-~ 
;~--- -):·=i--
:-.-~_ . 
.,~ - --~,-----··::=_-_-_S?Nt~tr:~r~. 
= 
'* 
~~ 
a '1&-2 o 
·-.:::>;;:::·:::v:;:~-- ~ ·;$f 
"' ' 
' --
. ' ·-::<> =:-::;,.;:;::-;:{.;.·::::.; 
-: 
_. '· 
~ -.'\: .-::::::·::-_..,_, .. _ 
.. ,---)$ 
·z~:·t~Jrffi.)l';· ~ · 
M: 
'!rdl:' .-.' 
~· 
··=- ·-= 
··-·:-= --
,_ . . -/ 
___ ·_:::a_::J:}JtA:. 
'" 
WD 
11' 
;-~ ·- '(>-
·:·:· :Y.;,~-~ 
"M:i 
,..; 
~·-
.. , __ ._._-....... 
_ ::::::;:;;;:;::: ---~ 
l 
, ... ::·::.~~-!.~·{ 
} 
0~ 
·.:-- ··--- ·*< 
_>::~tit .. 
~A' 
. ' '·,:i:::.:-.;:. :~t:: :-.. -.-, 
. .·:· .. -. . ' 
0 _, 
'Ill 
§ 
.,.. 
ff4· $;< < 
-a:.· 
-··.-:-:-·-
.· .. -.-
"<-;.;-;,>:;~-.,_;.;~ 
-~-:-:«~=~-=~-:-~:-:-:-· ·-:·.· 
--:.; 
;;c;._ • .',' ' 
< 
-~ -.:--il!i! 
l!& 
k 
• 
ill 
·-· ._._.;.-
-:·.;.;:;:;.;:-.-:-;:.>;;ff. 
- ~"ll.."<'<·:o.>:::·:-x-:·:~:o : · 
~-:::: 
' :::::::· 
f: 
i;:: 
·: .. 
-·~;·; 
-~·.··x··· 
:x~:-: ,,, it 
·,.;;. 
':~~;~~: 
' ., 
'~. 
...... 
' ',-: . ' ..... : : ', -:< 
:?: 
-'"• 
·:·~-
?:0 
i::i:J 
o, 
,t::;-·' 

;::~:: 
., 
::::~ 
_::.::}~f)


**Page number(s): 36**

• • 
ing the pro-life author's journey accompanying a friend to her abor-
tion, makes me wonder if some believers are actually striving for 
new depths of cruelty: Did you bother to tell her that she will have 
to face judgement for her actions someday. You have given the 
, impression that God will tolerate the murder of her child. The word 
says the truth will set you free. Your actions have placed that young 
lady into bondage. If she dies in her sins, you will bear part of the 
responsibility. 
rer wrote that knew just where to stab and twist. By 
accusing a Christian trying to emulate Christ's compas-
sion of driving someone into "bondage," the writer sug-
gests she is acting as a tool of the Devil. The completeness with 
which that statement violates· the spirit of Christ might be funny, if 
nen I arrived at the North Berkeley corner of Cross 
Campus _ on October 21, I was surprised at how 
uneventful the scene was. The position that CLAY rep-
resents is not popular at Yale. Last year, when advertising for CLAY 
events, I often revisited the same boards two or three times, to find 
that our posters had been ripped down. Still, opposition is rela-
tively tame, compared to what pro-lifers encounter elsewhere. While 
protesting at the March for Women's Lives in D.C. la.st spring, 
. Mary was confronted by a pro-choice marcher who said to her, 
"Your mother should have aborted you." Here, after CLAY mem-
bers scrawled "A person's a person, no matter how small" on the 
steps leading up to Sterling Memorial Library, I had expected to see 
at the very least some demonstration-a lone protester holding a 
' only it were fictional. 
"Stop Anti-Choice at Yale" sign, even-but the message remained 
unmarked. · 
On the other end of the spectrum, the Canadian government 
is one of the few in .the world that imposes absolutely no restric-
tions on abortion rights, a policy which has strongly influenced my 
.. country's identity. For example, my high school English teacher 
once mentioned Bush's restrictions on overseas abortion funding, 
dismissed them as dangerously conservative, then moved onto the 
· particulars of iambic pen-
tameter. In Canada, 
the 
debate over abortion is exem-
plified by the following 
exchange from the 2004 fed-
The 
cross o 
On the night of the vigil there was only a lonely-looking table 
stacked with literature and a cluster of people gathered at the wall 
overlooking Cross Campus Library, placing candles into paper 
bags. On the lawn, the scattered bags bore a vague resemblance to 
a cross. There was no "us vs. the world" binary here, only a two-
thousand-year-old symbol of compassion. 
can les 
For a few minutes, I placed 
candles and made small talk. In 
contrast to the reputation of pro-
. , eral election: a conservative 
; politician 
suggested 
that 
~ women might benefit from 
' third-party counseling prior 
• to abortion, and one out-
: raged spokeswoman decried 
u·rnt out in 
aces 
was 
ut t e 
lifers as militant automatons, with 
a penchant for chanting Scripture . 
and writing death threats to 
Planned Parenthood directors, the 
truth is rather boring-namely, that 
we are creatures of human impulse. 
Talking about the mundane seems 
to be instinctual at events that 
remember the mystery of exis-
tence. I was about to ask my part-
ner about his courses when Mary 
came up to us, an apologetic smile 
stu 
orn luminaria ·still lick-
. the attempt to "force feed 
· anti-abortion propaganda" to 
er1n 
were enou h to kee 
· women as evidence of an 
"anti-choice ideology." That 
last epithet says everything 
its attern reco niza le. 
about the prevailing ethos in 
, Canada: a woman's choice is 
the only issue at stake. Any 
concern for the organism kicking inside the womb is necessarily 
misogynistic. However proud I may be of hockey and socialism, I 
fear that being Canadian these days means embracing a philosophy 
in which humanity is denied according to personal opinion. 
Which brings me to the vigil and why I was sitting in Machine 
City folding paper bags. I have little use for the intimidation games 
many pro-lifers play-the bu ruing eye of judgment turned towards 
the women who choose abortion and the blind eye to the hardships 
facing those who do not. But it is just as difficult for me to stom-
ach the rhetoric of choice, in which pro-lifers are dismissed as exer-
cising freedom of religion instead of engaging in serious dialogue. I 
cannot accept a world where a human embryo's rights are not con-
sidered, a world that reduces a growing life to an inconvenience, a 
tumor-like tissue fit for surgical dismemberment. For me, this vigil 
was the first step in defusing a war zone. It would honor the dead 
without making murderers of pregnant women. It would also try a 
tactic that has been forgotten on most college campuses: silence. 
on her face. 
"We're starting the 
vigil soon," she said, "so I guess we 
should start keeping silence." 
"Okay," I said, flushing with 
embarrassment. As the cross of candles began to appear, the crowd 
settled into a meditative hush. The silence was short-lived, howev-
er: our memorials burst into flame, as improperly settled candles lit 
their bags on fire. The sight of CLAY members running out onto 
the field to stomp out the miniature testaments to unborn lives-
quite vehemently, in the case of the more frantic extinguishers-
must have seemed incongruous to onlookers. 
Some members 
laughed nervously, while others stared on as if they saw it as a 
melancholy symbol. The metaphorical implications, of course, 
were fodder for freshman English: the violence with which we were 
stamping out the fires was an inadvertent demonstration of the vio-
lence inflicted on the lives they symbolized. 
"Another life put out by abortion," someone said In hind-
sight, that seems horrifically trite, b_ut at the time 1 didn't know 
what to do but smile. Despite my smirking, I was profoundly irri-
tated: to simply accept our disintegrating arrangement as some kind 
of divinely orchestrated comment on the violence of abortion 
THE NEw JouRNAL 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
seemed to be ·an excuse for complacency, the same complacency I 
see in a culture that settles for abortion. 


My unfocused thoughts were answered by the sound of our first 
"protester" approaching. "I'm right here," a girl was muttering into 
her cell phone. "Yes, right here." She ended her call,. walked up to 
the table and asked, "What is this?" 
Mary explained and offered her a pamphlet. The girl star~d at 
her in disbelief. She grabbed the pamphlet and declared, as if shout-
ing over a violent commotion, "I really resent this." Then she 
marched off towards WLH, leaving Mary at a loss for words. I 
turned back to the others and wondered if kneeling in prayer with 
them would clear my mind. 


After about two seconds of meditation, we were greeted by 
music so loud I heard it reverberate in the library behind me. Those 
praying around me snapped to attention and glared at the source of 
the offending noise: the top floor of Calhoun. Any idea that the 
disruption was coincidental evaporated when I actually listened to 
the song lyrics: "Here's a butterknife, cut it open, shit it out/That 
motherfucker ain't mine/I ain't payin shit." As devastating protest 
music, it wasn't exactly Dylan; as a disturbance, it was enough for 
Jacqui to phone the police and call in a complaint. I was seeing red 
by this point, but a quick glance around made me feel alone in my 
anger. Everyone else was looking on at the candles with a calmness 
I couldn't understand. Even Mary looked back with a tired smile, 
as if to say: what did you expect? 


I fumed while rap became rock became a repeat of the first song 
again, more butterknife abortion for our edification. What did they 
think we would do-pack up our candles and leave, all because of a 
thousand-decibels of the Red Hot Chili Peppers? Or did they find 
our presence so disgusting that simply causing us humiliation was 
victory enough? I found myself considering the possibility that our 
grave statement on abortion was a joke. It seems to me that too 
many people eschew dialogue every day: the fundamentalists drown-
ing out the world with screams of hellfire; the doctors vacuuming 
heart and brain into the trash; and in my weaker moments, me with 
my pat condemnations of both. I could have laughed, but instead I 
pulled my hood over my head to keep the-cold out. 


Twenty minutes later, a couple of officers showed up, looking 
as annoyed as I was. When the music was finally turned off, every-
one breathed a sigh of relief. I took that as a sign to stop griping to 
myself and finally, somehow, pay my undivided respects. But even 
then it was impossible: I kept drowning out the silence in my head 
with the litany of injustices that fill the pro-life polemic-dehuman-
ization, violation of women, unthinking submission to social 
nonns. I was afraid that if I stopped to listen to myself, I would dis-
cover no grief at all-just empty self-righteousness over a cause 
divorced from my heart and an inability to find meaning in the 
small lights dancing on the grass. 


The discourse in my head was joined by a murmur: the students 
kneeling in front of the candles were beginning a Hail Mary. After 
the _assault of noise to which we had just been subjected, the sound 
of the Rosary was a strange comfort, even for a Protestant-and yes, 
even at that point, I was one of only two Protestants present. 


Realizing this fact made the gears inside start churning again. On 
one hand, something in me stirred at the words, "Blessed is the fruit 
of thy womb, Jesus." On the other hand, I had to wonder why it 
was only natural for our group to mom n with the Rosary. Were 
NoVEMBER 2004 
there no others who believed in the humanity of the fetus? 


The religious dynamic of our vigil was altered, however subtly, 
by the arrival of another Protestant. He put his hand on my shoul-
der, as if in sympathy with the sorrow I wished would overwhelm 
me, and bowed his head in prayer. I bowed my head too, fumbling 
for the improvised simplicity of an Evangelical prayer, but, as if on 
cue, the voice of dissent returned. The girl who had informed us of 
her resentment was walking down the steps from the library again, 
with more helpful commentary: "The netve of you people," she 
huffed; then, as she hurried away, "Self righteousr So· ~uch for 
defusing the war zone. 


From that point on, the vigil settled into a stillness that was 
both peaceful and troubling. I closed my eyes and found a rhythm 
of prayer, begging God to visit the unborn, mothers, doctors, 
Canadians, Americans. In an article the next day, the YDN would 
publish a quote that, as much as it pains me, may well be the case: 
"Most students here have made up their minds about abortion, and 
I don't feel a·vigil. is going to change that." 


In spite of its logistical failures, I do not believe our vigil was a 
joke, because at some point I had a revelation that I am still coming 
to grips with. After about an hour of shivering and staring into the 
back of my eyelids, I opened my eyes. The crowd reciting the rosary 
had dispersed, leaving only a handful of the faithful still meditating. 
The cross of candles was burnt out in places but the stubborn lumi-
• 
naria still flickering were enough to keep its pattern recognizable. I 
stared at the candles, the 167 children who will never grow into men 
and women, and suddenly thought: it is so good to be aliye. Written 
down, it sounds almost idiotic, but standing there in the bitter cold 
I repeated it in my head, like my own rosary. I now know what 
pushed distractions out of my mind: the longing to rejoice. I longed 
to celebrate on that freezing night, to pray for a cause no one was 
interested in discussing, as people accused and mocked me. I longed 
not to grieve for the 167 but to celebrate them, the six-week lives, 
the two-month lives, those mute spirits for whom the universe was 
warm and dark and ended all too soon. It may take me a lifetime to 
learn how to celebrate, but that nig~t I came to know how good it 
is to be alive-how good it is to have been born. 


A wind began to blow from behind The candles started to 
flicker; some of the bags were rocking back and forth. I knelt down 
impulsively,~ hands reaching out to steady one of them, though I 
knew it was pointless. Eventually I would have to stand up. The 
wind would still be blowing, and what would the paper bag do but 
begin to rock again? But I stayed squatting anyway, hands poised, 
eyes level with the light. 



**Title: Weddings I Celebrations?**
**Author: Romy Drucker**
**Page number(s): 38**

Weddings I Celebrations? 
by Romy Drucker 
KEVIN ABELS, ELLIOT GREENBERGER 
0RLY FRIEDMAN, ANDREW CEDAR 
Orly Friedman, daughter of Thomas and 
Anne Friedman of Bethesda, Maryland, has 
been dating Andrew Cedar, son of Phil and 
Dr. Meryl Cedar of Scarsdale, New York, 
· since the two met at a Yale College Council 
(YCC) meeting in October of 2003. Though 
the pair has been together an "unlucky" 
thirteen months, Ms. Friedman· and Mr. Cedar's forecast as a couple 
remains as auspicious as their beginnings. 


Fr~edman's interest began as an innocent crush on a Harry Potter 
look-alike. She approached Cedar with a bogus question as an excuse to . 
strike up a conversation. (Today, the conversation continues.) A few days 
later Cedar, who would soon be elected YCC President, emailed 
Friedman in true Yale fashion. "I know," he says. "It·is a little .nerdy." It 
paid off, d(!spite her roommates' original impression that he was a 
"shmuck." Mter a salsa dancing date at Berkeley. and some unconven-
tional bonding on Yom Kippur, Friedman and Cedar found themselves 
' 
in a serious relationship. 


The busy power pair-he, the executive ofYCC, she, an active mem-
ber of the Yale Student Activities Committee and United Way-enjoys 
cooking Italian delicacies in the Swing Space kitchen, puzzling over their 
Game Theory problem sets together, appreciating American art and 
challenging other couples to Trivial Pursuit. When no one is looking, . 
they may hold hands · in the Sterling Memorial Library courtyard. "New 
Haven can be romantic if you make good use of it," says Friedman. 


Although she laments the fact . that Cedar~s on-campus prominence 
"does not allow for romantic getaways," he makes up for it by being a 
good shopping partner. 


Her father is a Pulitzer Prize winning columnist. Her mother is a 
first grade reading teacher. His father, a lawyer, and his mother, a pedia-
trician, met as undergraduates at Brandeis University in Boston. Are Ms. 
Friedman and Mr. Cedar following in their parents' footsteps? 


WHITNEY SEIBEL, EDWARD HIGGINS 
The heartland of America has united two 
Yale hearts. Whitney Seibel of McPherson, 
Kansas, and Edward Higgins of Kansas City, 
Kansas, both juniors in Trumbull, have been 
together since the sparks began to fly in 
Bingham D two years ago. 


Maybe it was geography, maybe it was destiny, or maybe it was a 
capella. Some combination of the threehas kept couple in harmony. 
Seibel sings for The New Blue; Higgins is a member of the Spizzwinks?. 
But they make their best music together. "It's hard to think about plan-
ning, but we definitely want things to work out in the future," Seibel 
says, adding that the two have never taken a "break" in their three years 
at Yale. "I don't have a college experience without Eddie," she says ebul-
liently. Considering as one of his thefacebook.com "interests" is "cud-
dling," one can see why. 


Seibel, who dabbles in modeling and recently appeared in Maxim, is 
a Psychology major. Higgins majors in History. They continue to be a 
major Yale item. 


Like two ships passing in the night, 
Kevin Abels of White Plains, New Yqrk 
and Elliot Greenberger of Chicago, 
Illinois always spotted each other 
around campus. "Should I say 'hi?"' 
they each wondered at a FOOT party in 
Spring 2003, when suddenly a friend 
ushered them toward each other. It seemed like slow motion. 


But Abels and Greenberger are not a movie couple. In fact, they 
proudly "keep it· real." "Actually I'm the keep-it-realer," boasts 
Greenberger. Abels, a Literature major with a penchant for community 
organizing, and Greenberger, an English major who sings for Mixed 
Company and excels 1n dance and theater, are so busy, they are forced to 
be nocturnal lovebirds. Neither this temporal distance nor a term 
· abroad has kept them apart, and maybe nothing ever will. "I'm excited 
about that possibility," smiles Abels. 


It may be all flowers and candy for the adorable duo, but not when 
it comes to gifts. Greenberger bought Abels a wind-up ear toy to show 
his appreciation for his beau's stellar listening skills. Abels knows how 
to cheer up his partner: he can always count on a ginger ale and a sand-
wich from Gourmet Heaven to turn Greeberger's frown upside-down. 


Especially when dressed up in Liberace outfits as Siegfried and Roy, 
the couple are a fearsome twosome. The icing on the cake? The white 
Bengal beanie baby Siegfried wore on his shoulder. This couple has 
found the key to companionship. 


MICHELLE Ros 
ISAAC KLAUSNER 
Maybe Michelle Rosenthal and Isaac 
Klausner's four year relationship works 
because it started off on the right foot. 
That is, FOOT. The two weren't on the 
same trip but met for the first time on the 
train coming up to Yale. They even rode 
. 
in the same taxi to Phelps Gate. 


Destiny or lady luck? They got together on Casino Night 2001, and 
the two· Stilesians have been rolling high ever since. The best part, they 
agree, is sharing their relationship with their friends. "Last year they 
threw us a surprise anniversary party," says Rosenthal. 


'They have 
watched us evolve." They live under the same roof in a fourteen person 
house with their Stiles family, and, in fact, Klausner and Rosenthal have 
never been more than an entryway or two apart: "Yale is a place where 
we can do our own thing and still be together," says Klausn£_r. Well-con-
nected and intensely involved, she is a Dwight Hall co-coordinator; he 
is a star on the Yale Film Scene-and the self-proclaimed "first man of 
Dwight Hall." 


When they are not listening to Brazilian Jazz or reading plays 
aloud, the pair share their favorite children's books. They are writing 
one too: a fairy tale 


Romy Drucker is Research Direaor for 
TNJ. 
THE NEw JoURNAL 




**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 40**

Extract ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
I 
' . 
' 
• .. 
our. 
er s 
uesa 
na 
• • 
.. 
OS. · 
~ 
t 
f 
J 
••• 
urrt os, 
s 
cos, 
as, an 
eso 
• I 
-
, 
--

