Publication date: December 7, 1984
Volume: 17
Issue number: 3

**MASTHEAD:**
- Publisher: Peter Phleger
- Editor-in-Chief: Tina Kelley
- Business Manager: Marilynn Sager
- Managing Editor: Tony Reese
- Design: Andrea Fribush
- Production Manager: Christianna Williams
- Photography Editor: Jim Ayer
- Associate Publisher: Hilary Callahan
- Associate Business Managers: Rob Lindeman, Lauren Rabin
- Associate Editors: Anne Applebaum, Rich Blow, Joyce Banerjee, Jim Lowe
- Art Editor: Beth Callaghan
- Associate Designer: Katie Winter
- Associate Photography Editor: Mark Fedors
- Circulation Manager: Corinne Tobin
- Staff: Chris Berti, Art Ling, Tamar Lehrich, Tom McNulty, Mike Sonnenblick, Pat Santana, Pam Thompson, Karen Yashar


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- Yale's Decaying Colleges - Rich Blow
- The Klan Comes North - Martha McBrayer
- Uniting Two New Havens - Alison Cardy and Tina Kelley
- Yale: A Good Neighbor?
- Investing in Science
- It's Only Rock and Roll - Joe Levy
- Yale's Secret Gardens - Professor Vincent Scully


**Title: Yale's Decaying Colleges**
**Author: Rich Blow**
**Page number(s): 8**
Overcrowded arid deteriorating, tM colleges aren~ what they used to be. The conse-
quences are a decline in tM quality of campus lift and the educational potential <if 
1M college system. By Rich Blow.


**Title: The Klan Comes North**
**Author: Martha McBrayer**
**Page number(s): 14**
Nationwide tM Ku Kl;;; Klan has become incrtt~Singly popular. Connec-
ticut's contingent ir larger than thaJ. in any otMr northern state. As part <if the re-
cent conservative renairsance, Klansmen attempt to justify their controversial views 
politically. By Martha McBrayer.


**Title: Uniting Two New Havens**
**Author: Alison Cardy and Tina Kelley**
**Page number(s): 22**
Once again the complexity of ~le University's re/aJionship to the city <if New 
Htwm ir reveakd as the University's role in the city's economic revitalizalum 
becomes a topic for debale. Alison Cardy examines the University's investmenJs 
in downtown New Haven, and Tina Kelley describes the development o] &renee 
Park, a major cooperative e.ffort.


**Title: Yale: A Good Neighbor?**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 23**


**Title: Investing in Science**
**Page number(s): 28**


**Title: It's Only Rock and Roll**
**Author: Joe Levy**
**Page number(s): 32**
Virit the only local haven for live rock and roll, where the dr«UTl <if Everyman as 
Artirt comes trw: nighlly, and rock ir still something people do, not just lirten to. 
By joe Levy.


**Title: Yale's Secret Gardens**
**Author: Professor Vincent Scully**
**Page number(s): 38**
The mttaphysics of Yale architecture and the meaning <if the Universily's space in 
' 
the city. By Professor Vincent Scully.


**Title: Letters**
**Author: Paul Keane**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Liberal Confusion 
To the Editor: 
In your article on rape, "Among 
Friends" (TNJ, Oct. 19, 1984), I was 
sorry to make the acquaintance of yet 
another new abuse our masochistic so-
ciety seems to be heaping upon itself 
(from acid rain neurosis to nuclear 
neurosis) -your so-called "acquain-
tance rape." 

The very notion of "acquaintance 
rape~ as you describe it in particular in-
stances in 
that article effectively 
eradicates the achievements of the last 
ten years of Women's Liberation by 
portraying woman as a frail, mute, in-
decisive, helpless blob of protoplasm 
who, when mounted by a drunken 
preppy, doesn't know how to deal with 
the situation. 

Has she no mouth to scream, no 
teeth to bite, no fingers to scratch, no 
hands to pull hair, no knees to kick? 
Come now, let's get sensible about 
this new abuse which is plaguing up to 
"twenty percent" of campus under-· 
graduates, so-called "acquaintance 
.rape." The same rapport which causes 
the victim's confusion about whether or 
not she is being violated may also be 
causing the 
perpetrator's confusion 
about whether or not he is violating her, 
especially when you cite the violator as 
an inebriant. 

Do you actually expect drunks to be 
courtly? Katherine Hepburn has taught 
many leading men that that is precisely 
what a well-placed slap across the face is 
for: to put a man back in his place. 

Do you mean to tell me that a 
modern undergraduate woman at Yale 
is so desperate for peer approval-or 
preppy approval- that she wouldn't 
slap a fresh fellow in the face? 

I'm sick of this Liberal confusion 
about boundaries. When acid rain falls 
on my garden or nuclear waste is 
dumped ofT my shoreline, I scream! 
When a man ~ets fresh, girls, I suggest 
you do the same, and more: scream, 
slap him in the face, pull his hair, bite 
him, scratch him or kick him in the 
groin. After all, he is your "acquain-
tance," he knows he can't just run away 
and disappear without being identified. 
Establish your boundaries! Don't just 
ponder whether or not you are being 
violated and then surface a year later 
with an allegation attached to the latest 
label in our society's self-abuse parade. 

The real problem- which our diseased 
consumer society refuses to face- is 
that we have turned even sex into a 
commodity to be consumed, and for-
gotten that it is a favor and privilege to 
be granted. 

Sincerely, 
Paul Keane 
M. Div. '80


**Author: Mary H. Hall**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

Sexual carelessness 
When I read Joyce Banerjee's article 
I find myself wanting to respond in 
slogans: "Sexuality- not just genitalia!" 
"Protect the 
whole 
person!" "Stop 
'casual' 
sex!" "This is 
a 
sick 
society- caveat emptor!" as though 
words would 
stem 
the tide of 
carelessness in our treatment of others 
and ourselves. 

The difficulty of acquaintance rape: 
who is to blame? He is, of course- but 
he was confused, sick, demoralized. He 
isn't female; how could he know how 
she would feel? (She is female; why 
doesn't she look after herself?) 

It must be very hard to help one 
another with moral behavior. Perhaps 
most of us find it too difficult; we may 
have enough to do to become ethical 
ourselves. 

Still 
there 
should be, 
minimally, correctives to offer when 
something is badly wrong. In cases of 
injury or theft or of the simpler 
varieties of violence, 
surely ad-
ministrators would help. 

Sexual violence may be the prover-
bial painful matter, where everyone 
wants to look away. It is precisely in 
such instances that each of us must 
learn to see. There is no arena where 
the confusion of passions can be more 
destructive than in the sexual en-
counter. Not only rape but even death 
can ensue out of a collision of wills-as 
this community m ay remember. 

Committees and streamlined pro-
cedures perhaps may help. Some prac-
tice of confrontation m ay also have to 
be instituted. The man who hurt 'Sarah' 
and would have hurt 'Joan' needs to 
know that he has to stop. The aggrieved 
may be unable to get the point across; 
perhaps there is someone who can . 

Granted the.structural difficulty, sex-
ual carelessness is a problem much too 
pervasive and too intimate to be ade-
quately addressed by bureaucratic 
means. At most the System can ratify 
work that has already been done- work 
that comes closer to home. 

My thanks to J oyce, to 'Sarah' and to 
:Joan'. 

In peace, 
M ary H . Hall 
Divinity '85


**Title: A Summer at War**
**Author: Jennifer Ebisemiju**
**Page number(s): 6**

NewsJournal 
A Summer at War 
"I learned that you had to be tough, and 
not particularly nice, to survive the 
H olocaust," said Reuel Schiller, SM 
'88. "I dealt with many people, in-
cluding the producer, who had survived 
it, and I found myself saying, 'There is 
no way I would have survived if I had 
been in the Warsaw ghetto, because I'm 
just not that kind of person.'" A year 
ago, however, Schiller did enter the 
Nazi-occupied Warsaw of World War 
II. In his first film role Schiller por-
trayed aJewish partisan in The Children's 
War, 
which 
will 
be released 
this 
January. 

Reuel Schiller

Schiller learned of the film 
in 
February 1983 when casting agent Deb-
bie Brown canvassed New York high 
schools seeking young actors. "The 
director wanted to work with actors who 
weren't really experienced because he 
wanted to be able to mold them," 
Schiller said. Schiller, then a junior at 
St. Ann's School in Brooklyn H eights, 
met with Brown on a whim, but soon 
forgot about the movie and got a sum-
mer job working in a law firm. In late 
April, however, he received a call from 
B'rciwn, met with the director and then 
made a screen test. A week later he 
received a major role in the new film. 

The Children's War details the 1943 
Jewish uprising in the Warsaw ghetto. 
The film's main character is Jasek 
Eisner, a young Jew who smuggles food 
and weapons into the ghetto until he is 
caught by the Nazis. Schiller plays 
Lutek, Jasek's quiet but cynical smug-
gler friend. "Lutek was the son of a 
wealthy Jewish merchant. Without the 
war, he would have grown up to be a 
good-for-nothing, a playboy," Schiller 
said. "He was the wrong kind of person 
to be fighting in the ghetto uprising. 
Thd 'only r~ason he survived so long 
was because he was so bitter." 

The crew filmed for two months in 
Budapest, Hungary, and then at the 
Birkenau concentration 
camp 
Poland, where Jews were sent as 
laborers if they were not sent to 
neighboring Auschwitz. The Children's 
War was the first American production 
o; 
to be filmed at Birkenau. 

As a Jew, Schiller found fUming at 
~ 
!t Birkenau disturbing. "When I was in 
~ Budapest, being Jewish had less of an 
~ effect, but at Auschwitz and at Birken-
~ au - it was a nightmare there. I could 
· ! not believe that anything had actually 
6 happened there. It was inconceivable," 
he said. 

The Children's War was directed by 
Moshe 
Mizrahi, 
the 
well-known 
French-Israeli director who won the 
1977 Best Foreign Language Film 
Oscar for Madame Rosa. Jack Eisner, the 
Jasek Eisener of the film, produced The 
Children's War, which is based on his 
book 
The 
Survivor. 
Although 20th 
Century Fox will probably distribute 
the film, Schiller doubts that such a 
serious production will be commercially 
successful. 

In addition to The Children's War and 
high school productions, Schiller has 
recently 
appeared in 
the Timothy 
Dwight Dramat production of Woody 
Allen's God and Death. Despite his in-
terest in drama, Schiller does not plan 
to make it a profession. "I met so many 
people who had just wasted their lives 
being actors while ftlming," he said. 
"The movie, when I did it, was for fun, 
and I want to keep my acting that way." 


**Title: An Artist's Legacy**
**Author: Tamar Lithrich**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
An Artist's Legacy 
Photos of bodies, faces and landscapes 
hang on both sides of the unused fire-
place. Light filters through open win-
dows into the va:cant room. R oom 1787 
Silliman College, Maya's Room, is the 
only undergraduate-run, 
permanent 
gallery space at Yale. Although hidden 
far above the well-traveled paths of the 
University, the gallery and its many of-
ferings 
are gradually attracting 
students. 

Maya's Room opened in spring 1982 
with a retrospective of multi-media 
work by the late Maya Tanaka Han-
way, SM '82. "Originally Maya talked 
with (Silliman Master William Bennett, 
J r.) about establishing a student-run art 
gallery," 
Fran 
Bennett, 
Master 
Bennett's wife, explained. "After her 
death in J anuary 1981, as a memorial 
to Maya, her parents donated the bal-
ance of her tuition to this cause." In fall 
1981, Master Bennett, together with 
Resident Fellows David and Meryl 
Blinder and a group of students, began 
converting Room I 787 into an art 
gallery. 

"'We've had an eclectic kind of ex-
posure up until this point," Mrs. Ben-
nett said. "It's been very exciting." Ex-
hibits have included a landmark show 
commemorating the Solidarity move-
ment, incorporating posters and but-
tons designed by political prisoners. 
Maya's Room also d isplayed children's 
drawings and paintings done by Polish 
surrealists in response to the implemen-
tation of martial law. In spring 1983, 
freelance illustrator David Suter, whose 
work appears in The New York Times, 
displayed his political drawings at the 

Despite the ambition and dedication 
invested in the undertaking, the gallery 
has been virtually unrecognized by 
most Yale students. "Part of what we 
wanted was to create a gallery that 
would not only be a link between 
students and the Yale community, but 
also one for New Haven and New York 
artists," commented Sarah Whiting, 
SM '86, originally one of the guiding 
forces of the gallery. "But there's really 
been no following outside Silliman. 
There's just so much happening on 
campus that if you didn't have big 
names, people wouldn't come. It was 
demoralizing." Furthermore, Whiting 
found artists, architects and sculptors 
outside of New Haven were frequently 
so occupied with their work they didn't 
have time to exhibit. 

This year, however, under the d irec-
tion of T im Peterson , SM '86, and 
Katie Winter, SM '87, Maya's Room 
h;,s changed its focus: they plan to con-
ceutrate solely on undergraduate art. 
"It\ the only chance for undergrads to 
get response from their peers," Winter 
1787 Silliman College. 
said. "In class you just don't get a feeling 
of what it's going to be like as an artist 
in the real world." Mervl Blinder add-
ed, "There's lots of tale~t hidden away 
at Yale. I think this year we may have 
found something." 

Following an extensive and extreme-
ly effective publicity campaign, the first 
undergraduate 
phowgraphy exhibit 
opened on November 9, entitled "The 
Undergraduate Lens." "I was unsure of 
what to expect after last year's lack of in-
terest," Winter explained. "But people 
seemed really excited by the work at the 
opening." 

Most of the seven photographers in 
the show had never before exhibited 
their work. Hanna \IVeg, MC '87, one 
exhibitor, commented, "Katie was will-
ing to choose a number of different 
kinds of photography and a number of 
different styles. Students appreciated 
the fact it was purely an undergraduate 
show, and it was the best turnout 
Maya's Room has had . ., 

Future plans include exhibits of ar-
chitectural models and drawings and a 
graphic design show. "It's incredible," 
W hiting said. "Artists may bring all the 
work they have to the gallery, and each 
show somehow seems to come togNher 
in a new and different way. There's 
something magical about that." 

- Tamar Lthrich 
Thc "'ew .Jnurn<tJIDc<·emt>t"r 7. I <l84 7


**Title: Yale's Decaying Colleges**
**Author: Rich Blow**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

Yale's Decaying Colleges 
Rich Blow 
"In many places the colleges look like 
high class slums," said Berkeley Master 
Robin Winks. 

Yale President A. 
Bartlett Giamatti felt differently, say-
ing that the colleges are "splendid 
residences" which "provide an oppor-
tunity for combining living and learn-
ing unparalleled in this country." The 
disparity between Winks' and Giamat-
ti's views shows that, after 51 years of 
residential colleges, Yale students and 
faculty still have trouble assessing the 
status of the Yale colleges. 

Today the gulf between the college 
system in theory and the realities of 
college life is increasingly apparent to 
students and faculty alike. After half a 
century the colleges are crowded far 
beyond their original capacity, des-
perate for new space and facilities, and 
weakened by the onslaught of old age. 
The consequence is a noticeable drop 
in both the quality of on-campus living 
and the educational potential of the 
college system. 

8 The New Journal/December 7, 1984 
"When I lived on campus it seemed 
to me that everything was just falling 
apart," explained Sarah Lyall, DC '85, 
who moved to a house on Dwight 
Street after her sophomore year. "The 
bathrooms were always d isgusting and 
there was never any quiet because 
there were so many people around. In 
my room you could hear everything 
that went on in the suite through the 
fire door- so we all knew about it 
when one of the guys there had a new 
girlfriend." 

Lyall is one of about 500 students 
annually who opt to leave the colleges 
and live elsewhere. When the first 
seven residential colleges were com-
pleted in 1933, each housed 150-200 
students; now, even with the addition 
of Berkeley, Timothy Dwight, and 
Silliman later in the 30's, and Morse 
and Stiles in 1962, each college holds 
about 100 more students than original-
ly planned. The first seven colleges 
held about 1240 students; by 1983 that 
number had risen to 1780. Rooms 
meant to be singles are now doubles, 
doubles are now triples, and so on. For 
many students, off-campus or annex 
housing is the best way to escape such 
crowded conditions. 

From her apartment on Edgewood 
Avenue, Marie Wilkinson, PC '86, 
spoke about why she left campus. 
"Studying in college rooms is next to 
impossible because you can never shut 
out the noise of the people around 
you," Wilkinson said. "You can always 
hear their stereos, their telephones, 
even their bathrooms." 

Junior Brad Berenson lives in Mc-
Clellan Hall on the Old Campus with 
students from Jonathan Edwards, 
Branford and Calhoun. Berenson has 
no regrets about leaving J E: "If I were 
still living in the college I would be 
squeezed into a run-down three room 
triple. Now I live in a renovated four-
person suite with three bedrooms, a 
large living room and a private 

--- Page 9 ---

bathroom. Why should I miss living in 
J E?" 

But Berenson's 
roommate Matt 
Holmes said he regretted having to 
choose between the advantages of liv-
ing in a college and those of living in 
McClellan. "I do miss the college," 
Holmes said. "There's no atmosphere 
here, no sense of community. We don't 
really feel like we're part of the college 
system." 

College masters find the problem of 
overcrowding equally frustrating. As 
Calhoun Master Ramsay MacMullen 
"What the colleges 
need is a lot more 
money and a lot 
fewer bodies." 
commented , "If I had some god-like 
power, the first thing I would do is cut 
enrollment by a lot. I've often said that 
what the colleges need is a lot more 
money and a lot fewer bodies." 

President Giamatti has 
slightly 
trimmed Yale's enrollment, limiting 
the size of the freshman class to 1250 
students when in past years it ap-
proached 1400. But cutting enrollment 
is an expensive proposition, both 
financially and otherwise. As jonathan 
Edwards Master Frederic Holmes 
pointed out, "If you cut enrollment, 
then fewer people are going to get a 
Yale education, and is that worth it?" 

Donald Kagan, former T imothy 
Dwight master and chairman of the 
Committee on the Future of the 
Residential Colleges, argued that the 
only feasible way to reduce crowding 
was to build a 13th college. "Right now 
there are definitely more students who 
want to live in the colleges than they 
can hold- but there are also too many 
students who ought to be at Yale to 
reduce enrollment. That's why the 
Committee saw the addition of a new 



**Title: Overcrowding at Yale**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 11-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
college as the only option." 
But Yale will probably not soon, if 
ever build a 13th college; the estimated 
cost of such a project is between 
S40-S50 million, and the administra-
tion has no plans to raise so much 
money for an unsettled issue. 

In the meantime overcrowding also 
curtails the productive potential of 
Yale's student organizations, most of 
which look to the colleges for badly-
nef"ded office and meeting space. 
Publications, college dramats, even 
college councils are aU forced to com -
pete for the limited public space within 
the colleges. 

Leo Charney, '86, president of the 
Branford Dramat, explained how his 
group views the problem: "We have no 
space for auditions or rehearsals, so we 
have to make do with unused space in 
the Branford basement. That's hardly 
ideal, but it could still be worse- a lot 
of shows have to rehearse in places like 
Linsly-Chittenden 
Hall 
because 
there's no room for them elsewhere." 

Most dramats turn to the college 
dining haJls to put on their plays, 
although the dining haJls are already 
more than comfortably full. Theoretically places for intellectuaJ thought 
and conversation outside the class-
room, at peak hours the dining halls 
are transformed into mob scenes, 
noisy, cramped and uncomfortable. 

Robin 
Winks commented, "The 
Berkeley dining haJl was built for 280 
orderly people, sitting down in coats 
and ties and waiting to be served. 
Now, with freshmen. fellows, ·.-ansfers 
and off-campus students comin~ in, we 
can expect 550-600 people crammed in 
there on any given night." 

Likewise, coiJege facilities for in-
dividuaJ academic work cannot meet 
the demands of YaJe undergraduates. 
Students who need the colleges for 
music rooms, language labs, athletic 
facilities and th~ like often find these 
facilities broken, run-down or entirely 
absent. The situation can impede a 
student's work and make a master's life 
miserable 

Pierson Master H arold Morowitz 
has tried to solve the problem by 
spending hours 
of 
physicaJ 
labor 
rebuilding Pierson facilities. With stu-
dent help he has carried boxes, cleared 
rooms and painted waJls whenever it 
seemed the only way things would be 
improved. As a result Pierson has 
some of the nicest facilities at YaJe, in-
cluding an exercise room, an espresso 
lounge and an extensively equipped 
computer room. Still, M orowitz con-
ceded every hour he spent on such 
endeavors was an hour he could have 
devoted to overseein g the inteiJectual 
life of the college. "You don't want a 
master who's consigned to plumbing," 
Morowitz said. "That's not supposed to 
be part of the job, but it often turns out 
to be the biggest part." 

Some students take it upon them-
selves to redress college shortcomings. 
When Adam Stock, SY '85, andjulien 
Mininberg, SY '86, decided that their 
college needed a printing press, they 
turned to Saybrook alumni for help. 
"We were one of the only colleges at 
YaJe not to have a press and we figured 
we'd have better luck asking the aJums 
for money than asking the adrninstra-
tion," Mininberg said. "In the end it 
worked out great, but I'm not sure that 
it's the students who should have to 
tackle this kind of problem." 

Not only overcrowding and short-
ages of facilities limit the productivity 
of the college system; after five decades 
of Connecticut winters, the buildings 
themselves are deteriorating, plagued 
by leaky roofs, broken plumbing and 
inadequate heat. In 1984 Yale will 
spend some S7 million on routine 
maintenance aJone, yet even this huge 
sum will not arrest the threatening ef-
fects of age. 

"YaJe can never rebuild these col-
leges," said Davenport Master Henry 
Turner. "To have let them faJI into 
such a state of disrepair is tragic." Like 
most masters Turner deaJs extensively 
with maintenance problems, and he 
feels this lessens his contributions to the 
educational experience of students in 
his c~!l<!~e. "Wht>n I came here in 1981 
I assumed I was here to enrich the in-
tellectuaJ life of D avenport students. 
But to my great aJarm I discovered that 
no one was taking care of the college." 

The first challenge Turner faced as a 
new master was a longtime problem 
with leaking gutters built into one wing 
of the college. Every rainfall saturated 
the walls of student rooms, causing 
them to smell and grow mold. It took 
T urner three-and-a-half years to cut 
through red tape and get the gutters 
fixed. The frustrated master said, "I've 
been fighting these problems since I 
became master and now J!m getting 
tired of it. I teach, I write books, I try 
to make the life of the college more in-
teresting, but this is just a drag." 

Physical plant problems hit students 
hardest in winter when low Connec-
ticut temperatures force students in-
doors. As almost any student will 
attest, most dorm rooms are either 
boiling hot or cold. One Branford 
junior stills remembers his struggles 
for warmth in his room last winter. "In 
the mornings from about five to six the 
heat would just come pouring on; in-
evitably I'd wake up in a sweat. But 
there was so little insulation in my 
room that by the time I had to get up I 
could see my breath in the air. I don't 
know how many classes I skipped 
because 50 minutes of education 
weren't worth the misery of getting out 
of bed." 


**Title: The Heat is On**
**Author: Rich Blow**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
similar experience in Branford. Stre-
beigh, who teaches a class in a cold, 
wet seminar room in the college, ad-
mitted how difficult teaching can be 
under such conditions. "There've been 
times I've been trying to teach and I 
see students bundled up in hats and 
gloves, so cold they can't even concen-
trate. It makes me feel like I might as 
well just end the class early," Strebeigh 
said. 

The. cause of the heat problem is the 
inadequacy of Yale's antiquated 
heating systems. Except for Morse and 
Stiles all the colleges are warmed by 
steam pumped into 50-year-old 
radiators. "It is a noisy, erratic and 
wasteful system," explained Ken Borst, 
Director of Construction Manage-
ment. "Back when heat was cheap they 
pumped so much steam into the rooms 
that people would control the temper-
ature just by opening their windows. 
We can't afford to do that anymore, 
but there's no way to fix these systems 
short of replacif!g them." That job, 
Borst estimated, 
would cost over 
$500,000 per college, and Yale has no 
plans to allocate funds for something 
considered a low priority project. In 
the meantime students will keep com-
plaining to Physical Plant, which 
receives up to 250 complaints about 
heating problems a week. 

Clearly what the colleges need to 
restore their full residential attrac-
tiveness and educational capabilities is 
money, a lot of money. Whether they 
will get those funds depends in large 
part upon Terry Holcombe, Vice-
President for Development and Alum-
ni Affairs. Holcombe is working to 
raise some S80 million for Yale this 
year. Only about six percent of that 
money will go to the colleges, however, 
and only about half of that sum will be 
spent on maintenance. Restoration, 
Holcombe admitted, is a difficult pro-
ject. "After fifty years there's a lot that's 
beyond repair, and after decades of 
deferred maintenance, boom! The bill 
comes due. But we're just shooting for 
preservation 
now. 
Restoration-
"Yale can never 
rebuild these 
colleges." 
bringing the colleges back to what they 
used to be- is something that we could 
never afford." 

Holcombe added most alumni 
would rather contribute to a new gym 
than to new heat or plumbing systems. 
"Just try raising money to put a new 
roof on the Pierson dining hall. What 
are we going to tell them, that we'll put 
their name on the roof of Pierson Col-
lege?" 

Many masters try to pick up where 
Yale fund raising leaves off, starting 
small financial campaigns of their own. 
But as with maintenance issues, most 
masters don't think fund raising is 
something they should be forced to do. 
"I'm uncomfortable with that role," 
said Frederic Holmes, "but a lot of 
times there just is no other option. Get-
ting money from Yale is like getting 
blood out of a turnip." 

Yet money alone will not cure the ills 
plaguing the colleges. First Yale must 
recognize that the physical well-being 
of the colleges is a prerequisite for Yale 
students' optimum education. The 
problems of age and overcrowding 
have diminished 
the 
educational 
opportunities the colleges were de-
signed to foster,and until those prob-
lems are solved the college system will 
never be able to reach its full educa-
tional potential. 

• 
Rich Blow, a junior in Branford, is Associale 
Editor of TN]. 


**Title: The Klan Comes North**
**Author: Martha McBrayer**
**Page number(s): 15**

I came. back to the Old Campus from the 
library at 10:30 that night. That's when I 
saw the sign on my door. They'd taken that 
phony blood you get from drama productions 
and crossed out my name with it. And there 
were three big ktters-KKK -wn'tten in that 
phony blood on my door. 

The guys who did it thought it was all a 
big joke. I walked into my btdroom and looked 
at the wreckage and I just started to cry and cry 
and cry. I took this as a really personal attack 
against me. I mean, I was jn'endly with a 
coupk of them. 

The weird thing is I don't think they even 
lcnew what the •KKK• means. The guy whose 
itka it was is half-Mexican and a Catholic. 
How could he not undn-stand? 
-A Yale freshman describing how her 
room was vandalized on October 29. 

Ironically the Ku Klux Klan had 
nothing directly to do with this incident, 
which the University's Executive Com-
mittee is now reviewing. The KKK of 
the 1980s shuns association with such 
overt acts of racism. Today's Klan is a 
polished, 
efficient and 
g rowing 
organization, working to broaden its 
appeal among white Americans. Since 
1970, Klan membership has doubled to 
nearly 10,000 members, flourishing 
even in Connecticut, a state usually 
considered free of the intense bigotry 
traditionally linked with the Klan. To-
day there are some 350-400 KKK 
members in Connecticut, more than in 
any other northern state. Though it is 
unlikely the Klan will have much direct 
impact at Yale, this year's vandalism 
shows the ramifications of an increasing 
KKK presence in Connecticut cannot 
be underestimated. 

David Duke, a handsome and articu-
late young graduate of Louisiana Sta.te 
"Nobody should be 
supressed. I don't 
care whether you're 
black or white or 
Jewish or green, 
everybodys entitled to 
their freedom." 
-Karl Peterson, leader of 
Northeast United Ku Klux 
Klan 
University, master minded the resur-
gence of the KKK. During his under-
graduate years at LSU Duke had 
paraded around campus in a Nazi 
uniform and was once arrested for 
possessing the makings of a homemade 
bomb. He took it upon himself in the 
early 1970s to revive the Klan, and his 
soft-sell racism soon became a media 
sensation. Duke successfully presented 
an essentially non-existent organiza-
tion, Knights of the Ku Klux Klan, as a 
legitimate non-violent political force. 

Duke's right-hand man was Bill Wilkin-
son, a high school dropout who in 1976 
formed a Klan of his own, the Invisible 
Empire, Knights of the Ku Klux Klan, 
based in Louisiana. The Invisible Em-
pire (IE) soon outgrew the size of the 
original Knights and became the largest 
branch of the Klan in the nation. 

Bill Wilkinson's Invisible Empire 
claims it is merely a political organiza-
tion fighting for white rights, but until 
recently it was regarded as the most 
violent and dangerous Klan group. In 
1979 for instance, 100 of Wilkinson's 
Decatur, Alabama Klan members, 
armed with ax handles, clubs and lead 
pipes, 
confronted 
about 60 black 
members of the Southern Christian 
L~:adership Conference peacefully 
m11rching in protest of the rape convic-
tior of Tommy Lee Hines, a retarded 
black man. In the resulting riot some 30 
Bill Wilkinson, founder of the Invisible Empire 
shots were fired and four people were 
wounded. 

According to Randall 
Williams, director of a public interest 
group called Klanwatch, "Bill Wilkin-
son can stand there and make his speech 
on how 'we are simply a non-violent 
political organization' and then, as in 
Wrightsville, Georgia, 1980, two of his 
members will leave that speech, drive 
two miles down the road and shoot their 
. 12 gauge shotgun into th~ face of a 
nine-year-old black girl. Anybody who 
says he got into the Klan thinking he 
was getting into a political organization 
and intends to advance a political pur-
pose is either incredibly naive or a liar." 

Although racism is not unique to the 
South, the question remains how Con-
necticut became the Klan's northern 
stronghold. Wilkinson first established 
the Klan here in 1980 by exploiting a 
racially tense situation in Meriden, 
where disciplinary hearings were being 
held over the shooting of a young black 
man by a white policeman. The IE 
staged a march down Main Street in 
support of the officer and was attacked 
by members of John Brown's Interna-
tional Committee Against Racism (IN-
CAR), an often violent communist 
organization. The subsequent sym-
pathetic popular 
reaction, 
mostly 
among white blue-collar workers, gave 
the Klan a foothold in Connecticut. 

Media attention also gave the Invisible 
Empire credibility, and the group has 
been here ever since. 

John Dillon, the Invisible Empire's 
Great Titan in Connecticut, looked like 
the sterotypical Klansman; late 20s, 
longish hair, scruffy 
beard and 
mustache and numerous arm tatoos, in-
cluding the cross of the IE. He wore a 
baseball cap, vest, long-sleeved shirt, 



**Title: Connecticut Klansmen**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
jeans and workboots. Dillon recalled the 
time in 1980 when he first attended an 
IE rally in Scotland, Connecticut, 
where he heard Bill Wilkinson speak. 
"It wasn't a band of people running 
around in sheets at night lynching peo-
ple. I didn't hear any hate talk or 
anything like that. What I did hear was 
patriotism, conservative values, preser-
ving the rights of white people, but not 
at the expense of anybody else's Con-
stitutional rights. It's equal rights for 
everyone, and I hadn't heard too many 
other groups saying that. I've been ac-
tive in it ever since." 

Dillon was most concerned about 
issues like affirmative action and racial 
quotas, 
which 
he 
labels 
special 
privileges for minorities. The Great 
Titan b~tterly recalled losing a job as an 
apprenttce carpenter during a company 
lay-off to a black co-worker who seldom 
16 The New Journal/December 7, 1984 
showed up for work. "Some people call 
it reverse discrimination. I just call it 
discrimination." 

According to Dillon, the IE is chiefly 
a political group whose attitudes toward 
issues such as affirmative action, racial 
quotas and forced busing are shared by 
the Republican Party and President 
Reagan. "We like Mr. Reagan very 
much," Dillon stated. "We endorsed 
him for President in 1980 and we en-
dorsed him again in 1984. In 1980 he 
immediately disavowed our endorse-
ment but in 1984 it took him two weeks 
and a threat of a Justice Department in-
quiry for him to denounce it." 

Dillon believes Klan support was 
partially responsible for Reagan's vic-
tory. "I think in general people whose 
beliefs are similar to ours have helped 
R eagan. In 1980 most of the white peo-
ple voted for Reagan and an over-
whelming majority of the blacks voted 
for Carter. When I went to see Reagan 
speak at Fairfield I could practically 
close my eyes and be at a Klan rally. He 
speaks out very clearly on everything 
we say." 

Klansman Dillon resents the IE's 
violent reputation, saying "The Klan is 
a 
fraternal, 
political organization 
dedicated to promoting patriotism and 
the Constitutional rights of white peo-
ple. We're not a violent organization at 
all. Violence doesn't solve problems it 
m~es them worse." 

Much of the Klan's notoriety, Dillon 
believes, 
is due 
to 
media bias. 
"Reporters come and say 'Isn't your 
group anti-Catholic?' 'No,' I'll say, 'I'm 
Catholic, the Grand Dragon's Catholic, 
probably 75 percent of the members in 
Connecticut are Catholic.' Then they'll 
go ahead and print 'The Klan, a 
notorious anti-Catholic, anti-Jewish, 
anti-black organization ... ' In one ear 
and out the other. They print what they 
want." 

Because of this, a principal function 
of the IE in Connecticut is to educate 
people about the Klan through public 
rallies and Klan literature. The IE occa-
sionally distributes literature to students 
at schools such as Harnden High, and 
has also shown up in Groton to support 
the Trident submarine launchings. 
Dillon explained, "We don't like being 
secretive because if you're running 
around being secretive you're not get-
ting anything done. You can get a lot 
more done if you're out in the open.'' 

Dillon became most passionate when 
speaking about anti-Klan forces in 
Connecticut. "It's not so much that anti-
Klan groups help us, they discredit 
themselves. They're out there scream-
ing 'The Klan's a bunch of racist 
murderers' and throwing rocks at us." 

For the Klan leader, the march at 
Meriden proved this. "' hope I never 
see anything happen like that again. 
Everything was fme until they got up on 
the high ground with knapsacks full of 
bricks, chunks of concrete, bottles, just 
about everything. And they just started 
throwing the stuff down. I've never seen 
so much stuff raining out of the sky at 
once. They were ripping up peoples' 


--- Page 17 ---

"There's nothing more 
exciting than a room 
full of Klansmen 
drinking beer and 
watching themselves 
on TV." 

porches . . . cars were attacked and 
windows smashed. We had one Klans-
lady hit in the head with a chunk of con-
crete and she almost died. It caved in 
her skull. They had to remove bone 
splinters from her head; she's got a steel 
plate now. This is in the name of 
brotherhood and love and justice. We 
had several Klan members at the time 
who were armed, but we didn't even 
pull any weapons because ! NCAR was 
out in the crowd. But if Pd seen who 
was throwing the rocks I would have 
shot them." 

Dillon predicted the IE will soon be 
in every community with a substantial 
white population in Connecticut, and 
ch arged, "The only thing stopping us is 
the Gestapo tactics of the state police. If 
you want to attend a Klan rally in Con-
necticut you'll be stopped better than a 
mile away from the rally site. If the ral-
ly's being held on public property they 
will have blocked all the roads and put 
out a parking ban. They'll search your 
car very thoroughly, under the hood, in 
the air cleaner, under the hubcaps. 
They'll search you very thoroughly, the 
next best thing to a strip search . As a 
matter of fact, the last rally we had they 
had three cops searching an eight-
month-old baby. Right down in the 
diaper. This was done in the interest of 
public safety." 

Chief George Caffery of the Meriden 
police force firmly denied Dillon's 
charges, explaining only certain in-
dividuals were sea.rched at Klan rallies 
after court injunctions were issued. "I 
know of no incident in Meriden where 
Dillon, Great Titan of the state's Invisible Empire. 
we have manhandled a Klansman," he 
firmly stated. 

Dillon admitted the IE is not the only 
branch of the Klan in Connecticut, but 
disavowed any connection with the rival 
Northeast United Ku 
Klux 
Klan 
(NUKKK). "They're a splinter group 
that broke off from us last summer," he 
~aid. "They are comprised of some 
former members and some people we 
w0uld 
never accept 
as 
members. 
ney're in my opinion kind of a lunatic 
fringe." 


**Title:  Connecticut Klansmen (Continued)**
**Page number(s): 17-18**

Kar; Peterson, the leader of the North-
east United Ku Klux Klan, drives a 
Mercury Zephyr decorated with five 
Confederate flags and an "I Hate Draft 
Dodgers" bumper sticker. In his glove 
compartment Peterson carries a photo 
of himself and a man he claims is Billy 
Carter, both wearing Klan 
robes. 

Peterson is in his late twenties, a large 
vivacious man with long hair and a 
beard and blue eyes that blink furiously 
when he gets excited. Underneath his 
leather vest he carries a Smith and 
Wesson .44 Magnum strapped to his 
chest. "Don't worry about that," he 
laughed, "it's my Constitutional right. 
I've had enough repercussions from 
joining the Klan- rve had death 
threats, mostly from blacks. They don't 
seem to understand why I joined the 
Klan." Peterson laughed again. "I'd be 
lying if I said it didn't make me ner-
vous. But I'm just a nervous kind of 
person." 

Despite the gun, Peterson's manner 
was disarmingly amiable as he spoke 
about why he joined the KKK. "I've 
never rea.lly thought about the Klan too 
much until they had the rally up in 
Meriden. They had that rally in sup-
The New journal/December 7. 1984 17 

--- Page 18 ---

**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Martha McBrayer**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Dillon displays his tattoo. 
munism in the United States. "Did you 
vote on November 6? See who's on the 
ballot? Gus Hall and Angela Davis," 
Peterson said. "Things like that just 
drive me up the wall. That's why the 
veterans usually tend to come toward 
our group, when they see something 
like that." 

The Klansman explained the source 
of his strong dislike for communism: 
"Probably Vietnam, and maybe wat-
ching 'M *A*S*H' on TV. Korea. I 
never liked people joking about war. 
Sitting there and it's a big joke about 
wounded people." 

Peterson himself 
never fought in Vietnam. "They did 
away with the draft when I turned 18 in 
1972, but I definitely would have gone. 
My brother got his draft number 
changed, so he went from number 3 to 
be drafted 
to 
number 
300-and-
something. My father hate him to this 
day." 

World War II has also had a great ef-
fect on Peterson, who now says, "The 
Nazis are a bunch of jerks. My father 
fought them in World War II, and my 
father was German but he came to the 
United States. What the Nazis tried to 
do I don't go along with at all. They 
were suppressing 
people. 
Nobody 
should be suppressed. I don't care 
whether you're black or white or J ewish 
or green, everybody's entitled to their 
freedom." 

Despite his claims that his organiza-
tion is not racist, Peterson believes that 
the white people are a "dying race." At 
the same time, his involvement in the 
KKK stems more from personal than 
social goals. "You join to get yourself 
written up in the history books. Once 
you get your name written in the 
newspapers you want to have it written 
every day. No matter where I go I'm 
associated with the IE. Every time the 
Klan ha!~ d rally there's somebody there 
and you can see it on TV. There's 
nothing more exciting than a room full 
of Klansmen drinking beer and watch-
ing themselves on TV." 

AJ Groth, former Invisible Empire 
Kleagle and a NUKKK leader, was 
born and raised in Connecticut. When 
he turned 17 he volunteered for military 
service and fought in Vietnam during 
the Tet offensives of 1967 and 1968. H e 
served as a Green Beret paratrooper 
sergeant and earned three Purple 
Hearts. "T wo of 'em I got hit by mortar 
shrapnel in the hands and back. The 
third, the kid who shined shoes every 
day shot me in the leg. H e was Viet 
Cong. A spy." Groth remembered 
racial friction among the American 
troops fighting in Vietnam. "Nobody 
got along. Everybody hated it over 
there. Most of the blacks over there 
were killed by our guys. The blacks 
were running away. 

"I volunteered because I thought I 
was doing something good," Groth con· 
t4nued. "Then I find out the govern· 
ment was just trying to get oil rights out 
of the land. I was treated like shit when 
I got back. By everybody. The real 
liberal people, people like the John 
Browners." 

As far as Groth is concerned, the 
communist invasion of the United 
States has already begun. "What the 
hell! They sent us over there and told us 
to kill 'em and now over here they're 
running for President. What kind of 
crap is that? We need some more guys 
like McCarthy in the Senate. I mean, 
it's supposed to be a free country." 

Groth, who left the IE with Peterson, 
does not have fond memories of Dillon. 
"Dillon was a Nazi; he's still got the 
swastika on his arm. Ask him how 
many bars he got them thrown out of 
for doing 'Heil Hiders.' He speaks Ger· 
man and got some good anti-Jew stuff. 
Get him a little looped and he'd go crazy 
on the Nazi shit. I can't stand that." 

Groth continued, "Dillon's also into 
black magic. He was locked up for a 
while. He flipped out- too much drugs 
or something. He tried to kill somebody 
or knife them or something like that. 
Dillon always tried to act tough. He'd 
say, 'Yeah, you should have seen me, I 
beat up six black guys last week.' But he 
never did. Dillon's got no guts." 

Groth provided a different version of 
what happened at Meriden than Dillon 
did. "That coon that beamed the girl 
with a rock- I got him with a Louisville 
Slugger right across the throat. I was 
going to fmish him off, but a cop grabb-
ed me and said 'One hit per nigger.' I 
thought that was a pretty funny thing to 
say. As we were leaving, we said, 
'Come on out and get us,' and we pulled 
out ARI5s and semi-automatic rifles. 


That's the first time I pulled a gun and 
didn't get no flack for it. 

"I've lost a couple of jobs because I've 
been chucked out by minorities," Groth 
said, with resentment, but he does not 
consider himself a racist, "I just hate 
niggers, but there are white niggers 
too." Groth believes the racial tensions 
present in American society will even-
tually lead to a violent showdown. "I'm 
sure the country will lead up to a race 
war. I've been prepared for years." 

Groth carries several guns with him, 
but he favors a .44 Magnum and a .9 
millimeter pistol. "I figure it you've got 
to shoot somebody and it comes right 
down to it, you might as well do a com-
plete job of it." 

When I first saw the KKK. sign I thought, 
«They've got to be kidding, or I'm really in 
trouble. This is Yale, a liberal arts school. "I 
don~ know which would have been worse-if 
they turned out to be the real Klan or who they 
actually were. And the thing is, they said they 
didn't think of it as racist. I said to the half-
Mexican guy, .«You don't think of it as racist? 
How can you think of it as not racist? The 
KKK persecutes Mexicans in Texas. How 
could you not understand?"' I said, "I'm an 
Asian female, I can't change the way I look. " 
And he said, "Well, you should change 
yourself." 

The three freshman vandals may 
think of the Klan as a relic from 
America's history, an organization of 
southern rednecks far removed from 
Yale's liberal arts world. Yet while 
these students consider the KKK no 
more than a college prank, Dillon, 
Peterson, Groth and their fellow Con-
necticut Klansmen will continue to 
don their white robes and rally for 
white rights only a few miles from cam-
pus. As Robert C. Scoggins, Emper-x 
of the Invisible Empire said, "T:-.e 
Klan's going to be here when the wor;d 
ends. Don't ever let anyone tell you dif-
ferent. " 


**Title: Uniting Two New Havens**
**Author: Alison Gardy and Tina Kelley**
**Page number(s): 22**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Uniting Two New Havens 
The New Haven in which Yale students live, the gothic and granite 
enclave surrounded by bright street lights, is a centrally located suburb 
of the other New Haven, the nation's seventh poorest city. Twenty-three 
r~.rcent of the residents 9fthe latter live below the poverty level, while a 
much larger percentage of the former will join the nation's economic 
elite within a few years. 

Historically. the University's tax status and co~mitment to the 
economic development of New Haven have repeatedly been called into 
question. Now, due·to the city's economic renais.sance, Yale's relation-
ship to New Haven has once again become a topic for debate. Alison 
Gardy outlines the two sides . of the controversy about Yale's civic 
responsibilities and its recent investments in the city's reqevelopment . 
. Tina Kelley describes a major cooperative effort, Science Park, one of 
the city's and University's more adventurous and innovative attempts to 
unite the two New Havens. 
The new Sonecor Networks Building, seen from one of the older sections of Science Park. 
22 The New J ournai/December 7, 1984 


**Title: Yale: A Good Neighbor?**
**Author: Alison Gardy**
**Page number(s): 23-24**

Yale: A Good Neighbor? 
"Go to P ayne-Whitney Gym, look out 
the back window from the running 
track, and see 'Yale's backyard,' the 
Dixwell neighborhood ," said Frank 
Logue, former mayor of New H aven 
and a Yale Law School graduate. "I 
think it's in Yale's interest to do 
something about that backyard." 

"Yale as an institution shouldn't get 
involved in things it doesn't know 
anything about," said Ralph Halsey, 
'71, former director of Community 
and State Relations at Yale and now 
with the Science Park project. "Social 
services is at the top of th e list. We 
don't have any professional schools in 
that area. To believe Yale knows more 
about social services than the man in 
the moon is incorrect." 

The debate is almost as old as Yale 
itself. T he unresolved question of how 
Yale can balance. its obligation s to itself 
and to New Haven has surfaced once 
again- but this time with a new twist. 
Over the past five years Yale has 
become an increasingly active capital 
investor in the city, where approx-
imately 30,000 residents, over 23 per-
cent of the population, live below the 
poverty level. 

For those who see Yale as primarily 
an academic institution which happens 
to exist in New Haven, Yale's con-
tributions seem impressive. For those 
who stress Yale's role as the leading in-
stitutional citizen in New Haven, 
Yale's contributions are not enough. 

Some feel the University, as the 
number one employer, third largest 
taxpayer and owner of seven percent of 
the property in New Haven, is the 
city's leading institutional citizen. Yale 
has a responsibility to be a model con-
tributor, to use its vision and expertise 
to rebuild the city and to lead other in-
stitutions and businesses to 
make 
larger commitments to New H aven's 
renewal. 

The Yale administration disagrees; 
it feels the University helps New 
Haven by its very presence. It attracts 
culture and visitors, and through U.S. 
Grant, the New Haven Teachers' In-
stitute and Dwight Hall volunteer pro-
grams, performs social services for 
New Haven. 

But Yale first and 
Alison Gardy 
foremost is concerned with the educa-
tion and well-being of its own com-
munity. Its primary consideration in 
any investment must be its endow-
ment, the measure of Yale's security. 
The University's investment policy 
must be cautious and self-interested. 

"Yale has always had a very tentative 
approach to the community-one foot 
on the brake," Logue said. "I'm very 
aware of Yale's contribution to the city, 
but I don't see any sign that it thinks of 
itself in citizen terms and I think it 
should." Logue suggested Yale set 
aside 
more money 
for 
Program 
Related Investments which have a 
social purpose and are not expected to 
return market rates. "It will c'ost 
something to do it and not to do it," he 
said. H e encouraged investments in 
low-cost housing and the city school 
system, which only five years ago had a 
30 percent dropout rate among 16- to 
19-year olds. Compared to suburban 
high 
school 
dropouts, 
city 
graduates have a 20 percent lower 
chance of finding jobs. "The New 
Haven school system has lost credibili-
The New J ournaVDecember 7, 1984 23 


ty in the eyes of area employers," ac-
cording to the City's Poverty Commis-
sion. 

. John Buckman, vice president for 
finance at Yale, defends Yale's caution 
in investing. "I think some members of 
the community expect Yale to do an in-
ordinate amount. Yale can not single-
handedly bring economic well-being 
back to New Haven. That requires a 
community effort." 

Reverend John Hay of the United 
C hurch in New Haven and a graduate 
of the Yale Divinity and Drama 
Schools sees the issue as part of a larger 
problem. "The trend of the country is 
individualistic," he said. "Opportunity 
is a self-centered word. I would hope 
Yale would tune into the older vision of 
. community, but I think it's drifting 
with the rest of the country toward a 
more individualistic philosophy. The 
history of Yale could be written as a 
history of withdrawal. Yale is denying 
its roots." 

On the other hand, John Wilkinson, 
secretary of the University and chair-
man of the Economic Development 
Commission of New Haven, said 
Yale's involvement in New Haven has 
grown increasingly active. "Starting 
with World War I, Yale closed the city 
out. The doors on Old Campus going 
out into the city were closed. We 
turned our backs on the city. As Bart 
Giamatti says, 'Yale didn't discover it 
was an urban university until 1970.' 
We've been trying in the last 15 years 
to be more involved." 

A major sign of Yale's recent in-
volvement in New Haven is its increas-
ing number of capital investments. In 
1961 Yale contributed $4.5 million to 
the construction of the Chapel Square 
Mall, then for two decades made vir-
tually no further investments in rhe 
city. 

"It's only in the last five years that 
Yale has done much of this kind of in-
vestment," said Buckman. "Prior to 
that, New H aven was in a difficult 
period- the early '70s- as it went 
through the urban crises that many 
cities went through, symbolized by the 
Black Panther trial and all of the urban 
24 The New JournaVDecember 7, 1984 
"When you get down 
to it, we're in the real 
estate business, and 
not in the business of 
solving social 
problems." 
violence and rioting that occurred 
here. And I don't think anyone was . 
very excited, including the Yale invest-
ment committee, about 
investing 
money in downtown New Haven. It 
just looked awfully risky. So it's a com-
bination of change in attitude and of 
New Haven becoming a safer, more 
interesting place to inve.st money. It's 
sort of a fortuitous coincidence." 

In 1979 Yale began a five-year spree 
in New Haven downtown develop-
ment by lending $350,000 to help 
finance conversion of the Taft Hotel. 
Two years later, the University com-
mitted property, funds and office space 
to Science Park, and extended a 
ground lease for converting the Ster-
ling Nursing Dormitory to apart-
ments. In 1982 Yale loaned $500,000 
for the purchase and renovation of 
One Broadway and anqther $1.45 
million to Schiavone Realty for the 
Shubert Square project. A year later 
Yale loaned $1.5 million toward the 
renovation of the Chapel Square Mall, 
and this year the University is selling 
its property at Whitney and Grove 
Streets for a mixed-use project. 

"As the city improves, more people 
become interested in investing," Buck-
man said. "I could easily conceive of 
investments being proposed as if they 
were the same quality as the endow-
ment investments that we make." 

But Logue criticized Yale's in-
vestments as meek. "Yale made a small 
loan guarantee to the Taft and only a 
six or seven percent contribution to the 
Chapel Square Mall development." 

Logue further said investments in 
downtown development alone will not 
really help New Haven where it needs 
help most. "Hartford is the classic ex-
ample that downtown development 
does not solve a city's most pressing 
problems. 
Hartford is 
the fourth 
richest financial center and fourth 
poorest city in the U.S. It has the 
fastest percentage growth of office 
space, yet it is the poorest city per 
1 fa pita. The Hartford community and 
city government are now proposing a 
'linkage concept' of investment: if you 
want to have a big development in 
H artford, you have to do something 
for the neighborhood. Business people 
are beginning to understand that this 
has to happen. We [in New Haven) 
don't even have the business leadership 
that Hartford has. It is in Yale's self-
interest to provide that leadership." 

The University has not followed this 
linkage concept, however. The 
Shubert Square project is a good ex-
ample of the type of large investment 
Yale is willing to make in New Haven. 
The project is supposed to create an 
entertainment district on 
College 
Street and attract prosperity to the 
area, though it has yet to benefit 
poorer city residents. Mayor Biagio 
DiLieto, in a presentation to the Board 
of Aldermen in 1982, spoke of the pro-
ject as a necessity: "We cannot afford 
the loss of more retail business. We do 
not want our downtown to be the dis-
count center of the metropolitan 
region. We do not want our downtown 
to shut down for the night at 6:00 
p.m." 

The Shubert Theater, the center-
piece of the project, opened last winter 
and the Palace opened in September 
1984. Profit, a business newsletter, 
hailed the Shubert's gala opening and 
predicted its benefit to New Haven 
business: "Y~u can park your car, have 
a meal, go dancing and drinking after. 
Money flows." 

But for many people in New Haven, 
the money does not flow or even trickle 
from the Shubert. The project has 
problems that could be inherent in 
Yale's other capital investments. First, 
the Shubert does not provide manY 



**Title: Yale and New Haven: A Complex Relationship**
**Author: Alison Cardy**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The Chapel Square Mall. 
jobs to New Haven residents, in a city 
where "in some neighborhoods, the 
unemployment rate is above 20 per-
cent, while an additional 40 percent or 
more of adults are no longer even look-
ing for jobs," according to the Poverty 
Commission's 1984 report. In fact 
more than two-thirds of the full 
Shubert staff live outside the city. The 
vast majority of the house staff workers 
from the city are elderly or members of 
the Urban Youth League, and are vol-
unteers. Only half the full list of ern: 
ployees work for each show; the other 
half are temporarily laid ofC 
Second, the Shubert brings up the 
issue of gentrification. "While New 
Haven's powerful heap praise on Uoell 
Schiavone," wrote Paul Bass in the 
June 1983 New Haven Magazine, "others 
-like the tenants he evicted (in 1982) 
from the El Dorado Apartments on 
Chapel Street so he could fix the place 
up and charge higher rents-don't. He 
refused to give them any money or 
help in finding new houses until legal 
aid lawyers took him. to court." The 
same thing happened again with other 
apartments Schiavone wanted to 
rehabilitate. 
"Progress hurts minority, low-in-
come people," said prominent real 
estate developer Schiavone in the 
same issue of New Haven Magazine, 
"and when you get down to it, we're in 
the real estate business, and not in the 
business of solving social problems ... 
Unfortunately, the economics mean 
that downtown areas should be the 
most expensive real estate, not the 
cheapest. But it hurts (the poor] and 
it's too bad." 

Gentrification is also an issue in 
Yale's commercial and housing real 
estate. The University owns most of 
the commercial properties near cam-
pus, including Naples, WaWa, The 
Blossom Shop, Rosey's Cleaners, all 
the stores under the Center for British 
An on Chapel Street, and many others 
along Broadway, Elm, York, Park, 
Wall, Church, Chapel and Edwards 
Streets. 
"Over the years, Yale has acquired 
these so that the nature of retail


But for many people 
in New Haven, the 
money does not flow 
or even trickle from 
the Shubert.

business stays small 
and oriented 
toward the University," said Buckman. 
These stores cater particularly to Yale 
students' tastes, which account for the 
disproportionate number sellin g ice 
cream, cookies and Yale clothing. 
The University has purchased and 
renovated many dwellings in New 
Haven for the specific use of Yale 
students and faculty. Buckman called 
Yale's efforts to renovate housing 
facilities along Dwight, H owe and 
Park streets in the Chapel Street com-
mercial area "an example of how an in-
stitution can contribute to the com-
munity with its own investments in 
mind." 
Marcia Ryan, director of Yale's real 
estate office, said one of Yale's recent 
housing projects - the Lake and Dix-
well Development- "renovated 
the 
area from one of prostitutes and drugs 
to 23 units of nice apartments rented 
out to the Yale community." 
First Ward alderwoman Janet 
Stearns, '84, who lives on Lake Place, 
points out that building nice houses 
does not make prostitutes and drugs 
disappear. "Yale is certainly gentrify-
ing the area. That's a fact. Yale is 
pushing back poverty on my block but 
is not dealing with the people who are 
there, whom I have to pass every day 
on my way to or from home. The 
worst problem Yale faces right now is 
dealing with poverty and crime in New 
Haven. One of the major reasons why 
people tell you they won't come to Yale 
is New Haven." 
Buckman thought it unlikely that 
Yale would invest in projects such as 
low-cost housing for the New Haven


community: "I don't think we've ever 
done anything concerned that directly 
with community interest, and I would 
doubt that we ever would. We do have 
investment criteria for this money. It's 
not money that is just sitting there and 
can be invested with no return." 
"I don't think Yale's investments are 
all that locked in," said Reverend 
Charles King of Immanuel Baptist 
Church in New Haven and a Yale 
Divinity School graduate. "Yale cer-
tainly .could shift more of its in-
vestments into New Haven than it has 
without threatening its income." 
Halsey denied that Yale should take 
leadership resp0nsibility in changing 
New Haven. "To say that any large 
employer has the responsibility to 
change the life of the city by changing 
the life of its citizens is just not part of 
its mission." Yet' the University's very 
presence in New Haven changes the 
lives of its citizens. Although Yale pays 
taxes on only a small part of its 
holdings in the city, it brings culture, 
jobs and thousands of people, with 
purchasing power in the millions of 
dollars, to New Haven throughout the 
year. 
"Yale's 
relations with the New 
Haven community are very good," 
said Maureen Murphy, assistant direc-
tor of Yale's Community and State 
Relations Office. "They aren't perfect, 
but they're very strong. Only a small 
group sees Yale as something else that 
they don't really like. Others see it as a 
positive influence." 
Stearns disagrees. "I think that 
there's a lot of underlying bitterness in 
the community which shows itself in 
different forms." 
It will be a long time before Yale 
resolves, if it ever does, its roles as a 
private educational institution and as a 
leading citizen of New Haven. Said 
Buckman, "There's some amount that 
Yale ought to be prepared to invest in 
New Haven as a member of this city. I 
don't know what that investment is. 
We are trying to determine it. It 
varies. It tends to move very slowly 
over time." 
• 
Alison Cardy is a sophomore in Ezra Stiles.


**Title: Investing in Science**
**Author: Tina Kelley**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The steel door of the old brass works factory opened on a huge, empty room. A pigeon flew across the large space beneath the steel girders supporting the structure. Strips of blistered paint hung from them. Henry "Sam" · Chauncey, Jr., president of the non-profit Science Park Development Corporation (SPDC) and former secretary of Yale, stepped inside, escorting prospective investors through Science Park, the first high-technology complex in the nation created by a corporation, a university and a city. 

"If you believe universities are going to have a growing relationship with the business community, and I do, it may be that having that relationship in a neutral facility halfway between is a good thing," said Chauncey, '57, describing how Yale could benefit from its new neighbors. "If what has happened so far continues, there will be a ·variety of types of work here for Yale students, who could then supplement wages to pay for their education. Our presence might well induce Yale graduates to stay here permanently, especially if they've worked at Science Park as students. Then there's the neighborhood value- Science Park represents a major chunk of Yale's western perimeter. Any Improvement here is bound to benefit Yale." 

For Chauncey, one of the most important goals of the Park is to help revive the Dixwell-Newhallville neighborhood. "The worst result for ~ Science Park would be to have a high-~ class, modern scientific technical park l and not have a good influence on the ! neighborhood, a park that didn't create ; jobs and economic help." 

Located west of Science Hill on Sam Chauncey s Division Street, the industrial complex provides space for newly incorporated or "embryo" companies, light industrial plants and established firms. Science Park now offers its tenants computer, bookkeeping and secretarial assistance, telecommunication lines and access to investors. "There is no lack of venture capital in the United States today," s~id Chauncey. "There is no lack of good ideas. But there is a terrible lack of good management to implement them. These services will free an embryo company to concentrate on the real work." 

There are now 40 ·corporations housed on the 80-acre tract, with only 13 acres developed. Although Science Park lacks the futuristic glitter of other industrial complexes, it attracts about three inquiries each week from prospective settlers. "We currently can't j\CCept any new tenants unless they build," Chauncey explained later, as he sat in his office in Five Science Park, a renovated munitions factory built in 1912. SPDC has plans for opening a similar facility this winter. 

The hall outside Chauncey's office passes by such companies as the Olin Chemicals Medical Facility, Micro-Gene Systems, Aqua-Tech and American Sun Systems, and opens on another era, a sprawling empty factory room with desks piled in the corner. An unplugged water fountain stands by a column in the center, and light streams in through walls of windows. The whole building looked like this less than a decade ago, but now it is filled to capacity with 25 start-up companies. 

"I had no idea that it'd fill up so soon," Chauncey said. "Entrepreneurship in America is exploding. When I started this program virtually everyone I talked to thought I was a fool. Now they can see how it is possible." 

Before 1981 the prognosis for the site was grim. Between 1955 and 1981, 16,000 jobs had evaporated from the area's heavy manufacturing companies such as Olin and Winchester Repeating Arms, a number equal to Dixwell-Newhallville's population today. Unemployment and crime threatened to turn the neighborhood into a slum. 

Chauncey worked in the Yale administration for 24 years and served on the New Haven Development Commission for more than ten. He helped bring the SPDC together in an attempt to unite the diverse interests of the University, the city and the Olin Corporation, which donated 80 acres to the project. By the end of 1983, city, 28 The New journal/December 7, 1984 RCEE closes the gap between the neighborhood and the working world.


---

**Page number(s): 29**

.. ., 



**Title: Science Park's Impact on New Haven**
**Author: Tina Kelley**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
meetings with local residents, often 
working to find reasonable mortgages 
and other financial 
assistance. 
Chauncey recalled: "They said to me, 
'Do anything you can to create jobs. 
We'll decide how 
to spend 
the 
money.' " 
"I don't think Science Park's in a 
position to help us," said Willie Green, 
executive director of the NewhallVITle 
Neighborhood Corporation. "Science 
Park is in a Catch-22 situtation. It's 
caught between the city and the com-
munity. The Neighborhood Corpora-
tion lost $56,000 through the Com-
munity Development Act. The city 
says the funds went towards the 
$200,000 they gave to Science Park, 
but this has no impact on the com-
munity on the whole. 
"The city says Science Park's our 
savior, and we see it can't get us jobs. 
There are very decent individuals [in 
the SPDC] who've tried to be a re-
source for us, and they've called us in 
when they had no job openings, but 
the Park offers hi-tech jobs, and the 
community's not qualified for them." 
To help remedy this situation, the 
Corporation has instituted training 
programs specifically for the benefit of 
New Haven youth. Downstairs from 
Science Park headquarters, 
Regional Council 'On Education for 
Employment (RCEE) cond!-lcts the 
first training program jointly spon-
sored by the federal government and a 
private corporation. IBM has donated 
$250,000, business equipment and in-
structors who teach disadvantaged 
high school graduates word processing 
and office skills. Of the 25 participants 
in the second 15-week cycle of the pro-
gram, all but one have found full-time 
jobs. Half of them are from Dixwell-
Newhallville. "Science Park has af-
fected Dixwell-N ewhallville in a very 
positive way," said Willie Bradley, a 
RCEE career counsellor and Newhall-
ville resident. 

Along with tax abatements and new-
job grants Science Park companies will 
receive under state enterprise zone 
legislation for employing area resi-
dents, the RCEE program is a first 
step in the Park's efforts to spur the 
economic recovery of the surrounding 
area. Eventually, the SPDC hopes to 
attract $1 million in new tax revenues 
for the city and 2,000 jobs, half of them 
for Dixweli-Newhallville residents. 
Since June 1, 1983 the Corporation 
has created 413 new jobs, 104 for 
neighborhood residents, for a total of 
489 Dixweli-Newhallville employees. 
As more companies move into the 
complex, job openings in food 
preparation, security and maintenance 
can be earmarked for the predomi-
nantly 
unskilled 
neighborhood 
residents. 

Still, Chauncey balks at the slow 
T ace of development. "How has 
Science Park helped the neighbor-
hood? To give a vivid answer, it 
hasn't," he said. "I think it has, but it's 
important to realize that it's not going 
to happen overnight. 
It's terribly 
frustrating for me and the people who 
live around here. If you come in and 
say that improvements will take place 
20 years from now, it's frustrating for 
everyone." 
The three-year grants Science Park 
received from Olin and New Haven 
expire this month, and Chauncey will 
be asking his sponsors for further fund-
ing. "We'll have to show them what 
we've done already with practically no 
money," he said. "Economic develop-
ment is by nature a very slow process. 
We'll soon see psychological advan-
tages because of the building of the 
first new building, and the place will 
begin to look a little better with its new 
parking lot and plantings, but it will be 
15 to 20 years before we can really tell 
how successful we'll be." 
Though slow, the process is crucial 
for everyone involved. "If New Haven 
fails," Chauncey said, "Yale fails, and 
vice versa." 
• 
Tina Kelley, a senior in Morse, is editor-in-
chit/ of TN]. 


**Title: It's Only Rock & Roll**
**Author: Joe Le~**
**Page number(s): 32-33**

"America: the land 
where any kid can 
grow up to be Presi-
dent, or, if he's 
luckier, Elvis."

Friday night at the Cafe Grotto isn't 
what you expected. When you heard 
the Grotto was a punk club, visions of 
the Sex-Pistolized kids who hang out on 
Cross Campus probably slam danced in 
your head, but now that you've finally 
sl,lmmon~d the courage to walk all the 
way down to 130 Crown Street, a mere 
six blocks from Phelps Gate, you find 
you don't really need a purple mohawk 
to fit in. Pay your four dollars, walk in, 
grab a beer, pass a group of serious 
punks (clothes torn in all the right 
places) and take a seat with a good view 
of the new-wavers bopping on the dance 
floor. The fashions are courtesy of Lon-
don Touch; neon is in this month. 

Tonight's warm-up band is a local 
punk-funk group, just good enough to 
keep a small crowd dancing. To the 
right, a thirtyish couple who look llke 
they might have been extras for Saturday 
Night Fever drop another quarter in the 
pinball machine. Two girls dressed in 
black gowns with black lace gloves and 
veils walk by, closely followed by two 
guys in flannel shirts, jeans and 
sneakers who look like they just might 
ask the two girls to dance. T he fifty-
year-old man who's been standing at the 
back of the dance floor comes by and 
picks up your empty. The crowd at the 
Grotto is surprisingly cross cultural, 
cross racial, and cross generational. 

The crowd knows the Grotto is the 
only place around New H aven where 
every night of the week someone will be 
playing real live rock and roll, true to 
the spirit of the garage bands of the '60s, 
true to the idea that anyone can play 
rock and roll and everyone should. 

T he bands at the Grotto- local high 
school groups, unknowns from New 
York City and Boston, little-k nown na-
tional acts- prove something night 
after night: the American rock and roll 
dream still lives. If you want to be a 
rock and roll star, just get yourself an 
electric guitar and learn how to play. 

T he headline band tonight is from 
New York City. They're called Singing 
Beach. No one really knows who they 
aoo, and they've performed live twice 
before. When they take the stage, they 
launch into a neo-psychedelic instru-
mental no one can dance to, but then 
start playing some real pop tunes, with 
words, a beat and everything. People 
start getting out of their seats. The 
Grotto is small, and if you walk up to 
the front of the stage you can see the tall 
blonde vocalist, Janet Wygal, has a 
greeting card and a small doll at the top 
of her amp. If you try hard enough you 
can even read the card. It's her birth-
day. 

By the time Singing Beach finishes 
their set the crowd is really into it. Peo-
ple clap and whistle for an encore. 
Someone starts banging on the stage. 
The band comes back and reprises 
"Gathering Roses," the song they want 
to release as a single, if anyone ever 
signs them to a record label. A guy in a 
grey polyester suit and black turtleneck 
who's been pushed up against the stage 
all night starts fanatically snapping 
photo after photo. His camera strap 
adds the perfect new-wave touch to his 
outfit: it's red, white and blue striped 
with little white stars along the edges. 
Someone on the dance floor is really 
getting down and doing the dog. His 
feet slap the floor in a Snoopy shuffie, 
his hands are drawn up against his chest 
like paws. He barks in time to the 
music. W hen the band finishes, Wygal 
steps up to the mike. "We can't play 
anymore," she says. ~That's all the songs ;;; 
we know." 


After the show the band retreats to 
the little white dressing room on the side 
of the stage. T he guy in the grey 
polyester suit follows them. He knows 
all about them. He knows they used to 
be called the Individuals, and that they



**The Grotto**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 34-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
3i The New journal/December 7, 1984 
• recorded an album under that name at 
~ Mitch Easter's Drive-In Studio in 
~ North Carolina. Easter is a music pro-
! ducer whose chirpy, energetic, neo-
:; garage production techniques have 
J been dubbed the "new American sound" 
e by Rolling Stone. In a quirky literaliza-
=; tion of the ideal of garage band rock, 
Easter converted his parents' garage in 
Winston-Salem, North Carolina into a 
rc;yording studio. Bands like R.E.M., 
the Bongos and Easter's own Let's Ac-
tive hole up in the Easter house, eat 
Mrs. Easter's cooking and make the 
sort of music which just might get every 
American kid thinking he could be a 
rock and roll star. 

The hand-lettered sign of the dress-
ing room door isn't exactly tough or 
authoritative: 
BAND MEMBERS ONLY 
PLEASE 
It doesn't stop too many people from in-
viting themselves backstage, and it sure 
doesn't stop the guy in the grey poly-
ester suit from living out his rock and 
roll dream: backstage with the band 
after the gig. But then that's just the 
point. The Grotto's a place where rock 
and roll dreams can still come true, a 
place where anybody with an electric 
guitar can be a star, a place where peo-
ple can dance to living music instead of 
records, a place where anyone, even a 
guy in grey polyester, can end up 
backstage with the band after the gig. 

Backstage tonight things are a bit 
confused. The dressing room is a jungle 
of black cables leading to black boxes. 
Someone in the band tries to figure out 
just how many free beers they're en-
titled to. Lead guitarist David Hoaston, 
whose accent is a sure tip-off he's from 
somewhere in England, explains to a 
friend that the band almost didn't make 
tonight's show. Someone changed the 
lock on their practice space in New 
York and locked up all their equipment, 
and to top it ofT they lost their bass 
player. Wygal tries to convince the bass 
player they found for tonight, Ilene 
Markell, CC '85, to join the band. 
Markell's no stranger to the dilemma of 
balancing rock and roll and academics 
-she's back at Yale after a two-year


---

"The almost gone days 
of rock and roll as a 
radically democratic 
art form live again." 
leave to play with her last band, 
Skunkadelic- nor is she a stranger to 
the Grotto- Skunkadelic was the first 
band to play the Grotto when it opened 
November 25, 1983. 
"It's a great place," she. says of the 
Grotto. "It's cheap as hell and you can 
just walk down here. I don't know why 
more Yale people don't come. I still 
think they're afraid to leave a ten-foot 
radius." 

Wygal agrees with Markell about the 
G rotto. "It feels great to play here. It's a 
little tomb-like, no, make that womb-
like; it's got a real comforting feeling. 
But then I like a dark cavernous place." 

The Grotto's basement location does 
make it a little dark and tomb-like; at 
least that's the feeling you get from the 
plaster stalactites on the ceiling and tiny 
monks' heads sculpted into the capitals 
of the columns in the barroom. "All 
those 
stalagmites or stalactites or 
whatever are leftover from when the 
place was some bizarre bondage club," 
booking director Mark Mullcahy ex-
plained. 

The decor is late art-drecko. In the 
stage/dance floor area there are at least 
three kinds of mismatched wallpaper, a 
non-functional fireplace (probably from 
the G rotto's days as a German Beer 
Palace) and Day-Glo squiggles painted 
on the walls to pick up the black lights 
over the dance floor. Those black lights 
are the only lighti!lg on the dance floor 
-none of the flashing strobes and puls-
ing colored lights usually found in a 
dance club, but then, the Grotto's no 
disco. 

According to owner Jim Levine, live



**Rock and Roll at the Grotto**
**Author: Jot Levy**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
bass and drums, and a couple of six 
packs- instant rock and roll. The 
Beatles and the Stones both started out 
playing Chuck Berry tunes in some-
body's basement; if they could go all the 
way to the top, anyone could. That the 
dream of Everyman as artist, the dream 
that anybody who could bang out the 
chords to "Louie Louie" might one day, 
for one second, be a star, that this 
dream sometimes comes true is what 
rock and roll is all about. And it's 
democratic. America: the land where 
~y kid can grow up to be President, or, 
tf he's luckier, as big as Elvis. 

Now things have changed. Bands 
!pend more time in the studio than on 
the road, and you don't hear much rock 
and roll live these days. If you do you're 
hlore likely to see it in an arena the size 
of the New Haven Coliseum than a 
llnall club that offers personal contact. 
COmmunication and participation like 
the Grotto. People don't participate in 
~k any more. They listen to records 
~nstead of jamming in the garage. And 
if the medium is still the message, 
What's the message of a medium like
techno-pop? That modern man is 
estranged from his music. What hap-
pened to the days of human rock •and 
roll, when instruments were played, not 
programmed? 

Well, on a Wednesday audition night 
at the Grotto when an unknown local 
band takes the stage, kicks out the jams 
and achieves those moments of stardom 
(even if it isn't Superstardom), the 
almost-gone days of rock as a radically 
democratic art form live again. For just 
one second the dream of Everyman as 
artist comes true. And it comes true at 
the Grotto. 

Jot Levy is aJunior in Btrktley.


**Yale's Secret Gardens**
**Author: Vincent Scully**
**Page number(s): 38**

Yale's Secret Gardens 
In his recent book Campus, Paul Turner advances the unex-
ceptionable thesis that the campus~ of American colleges 
and universities are "communities in themselves . . . cities 
in microcosm," and that their forms are "different from 
everything else" in American architecture. This is certainly 
true of Yale in New Haven. Yale shapes a closed-off, secret 
world. It is a walled garden, a true Paradise set in an urban 
matrix which is becoming sadder with every passing year . 
But Yale's enclo~ure, its special secretiveness, cannot be 
due exclusively to its urban situation. Harvard, in hostile 
Cambridge, is not nearly so closed. One can filter into the 
Yard from almost anywhere. The Harvard ho~ses on the 
·whole turn much less inward than the Yale colleges do. 
Princeton and Dartmouth, off in Cloud-Cuckoo Land, are 
wide open, but so is Penn, if not Columbia. So it is worth 
thinking about how Yale got to be the way it is. 

At first it was open to the town. Old Brick Row, of which 
Connecticut Hall is the sole survivor, consisted of a splen-
did rank of buildings, alternating some like Connecticut 
HaU with others like churches with frontal towers -like, in 
fact, the churches which came to be built on Temple Street 
during the early nineteenth century. Entrance, as at Con-
necticut Hall, was from either side, so that nothing 
separated Yale from the town but its symbolic Fence along 
College Street. Here Town and Gown met, mingled and 
sometimes fought. Those fights got rougher as the city 
grew bigger and more industrialized. 

At the close of the Civil War there was an exceptionally 
bloody riot (there was a bad one when the troops came 
home after World War I as well), and the University decid-
ed to close itself off from the town. Farnam Hall was 
planned that very year and completed in 1869. It was a 
medieval fortress right on College Street. Entrance was 
possible only on the side away from the Green. All the 
other buildings along the street followed that pattern; Noah 
Porter Gate, with Phelps Hall, flaunting its character as a 
Tudor palace, was set in place in 1895. At the corner of 
Chapel Street a splendid building by Bruce Price, Osborne 
Hall, still opened its grand Romanesque portals to the city, 
but in the 1930s it was replaced by Bingham, a corner 
bastion. Brick Row was torn down, so creating an en-
closed quadrangle, the Old Campus, which is still the only 
satisfactory large communal open space to be found at 
Yale. Cross Campus lacks vc.lumetric shape; Beinecke 
Plaza is unsympathetic, appropriate oply for angry 
demonstrations; and the college courtyards are just that, 
collegial perhaps but surely not universal. 

They are Yale's ultimate gardens and, unlike the Old 
Campus as it can be seen from High Street, they are wholly 
invisible, and thus secret, from the townspeople's point of 
view. Upon them, too, Yale lavished its most elaborate ar-
chitecture. It is interesting to note that James Gamble 
Rogers, (who graduated from Yale in 1889) who has to be 
regarded as their creator, built very little else worth looking 
at (on which short list New Haven's Post Office should rank 
high). The colleges were Rogers' major work, really his 
life's work, and he poured his special devotion to Yale into 
them. Their decoration, soon to be discussed in a study by 
the young historian Stephen Fitch. '81, indeed reveals 
Roger? preoccupation with Yale's more arcane secrets, but 
the major form nf the colleges, the dosed quadrangle, is 
secret enough. Then, too, they are all marvelously escapist; 
Gothic first, Colonial later, and they were attacked as such 
during the early days of their construction by a lively 
undergraduate publication called The Harkness Hoot. 

Still, modernist contempt for their eclecticism, in which 
my generation was brought up, can now be disregarded. 
They are marvelous architecture, shaping as they do splen-
didly realized courtyard spaces with highly convincing, 
beautifully built and detailed building forms. Indeed, Stiles 
and Morse, the latest to be built-and designed not by 
Rogers but by Eero Saarinen- are much the least convin-
cing, 
precisely bec;ause modernist reductionism has 
seriously impoverished their architectural vocabulary. It is 
a touching sidelight on their planning, nevertheless, that 
Saarinen designed them on the diagonal in order to en-
courage townspeople to walk through the block, rather than 
to be forced always to the periphery as they are by Yale's 
quadran~les. Saarinen did not even want his colleges to 
have gates. Now, alas, those gates seem to have to be closed 
ti~ht a good deal of the time. 

The very first of the colleges, Branford and Saybrook, 
are the most elaborate and probably the best. They were 
not originally intended for colleges but were begun in the 
191 Os 
as one great residential complex, 
Harkness 
Memorial Quadrangle, and were subdivided in the early 
1930s when the college system was brou~ht into being. 
H ere the courtyard spaces, overlooked by the great tower, 
are among the strongest in any of the colleges and at the 
same time the most labyrinthine, in that sense the most 
secret, with many tiny courts tucked away, so making 
much play with the age-old idea of the secret garden. The 
decoration too is the richest and at least one of the most 
elaborately iconographic, full of more or less veiled 
references to Yale's peculiar ways. 

It is interesting that the first contemporary study of the 
Yale r.olleges to take them seriously as architecture was 
made by Paul Goldberger, '72, then one qfthe early editors 
of The New journal and now architectural critic for the New 
York Times, as his senior thesis at Yale. Goldberger, who 
won the Pulitzer Prize last year, concentrated on the forms 
of the buildings, which, if I remember correctly, he called 
something like "Banker's Gothic" and "Banker's Georgian." 
So while he was among the fU"St to look at them sym-
pathetically he still seemed to feel the need to strike a 
somewhat pejorative note in their stylistic naming. The 
present study by Fitch, however, is involved much less with 
style than with meaning, and it will surely teach us a good 
deal about Yale and so, one supposes, about ourselves. 

One thing is clear right now: Yale is an unusually secret 
place. It closes in upon itself in an attempt at isolation 
which cannot be ascribed only to its urban situation, but 
has to be regarded as deeply systemic, elaborately tribal 
and surely rather proud. 

Vincent Scully, '40, is Sterling Professor of the History of Art.


WYBC-FlVI 94 
!J?unday 
8a~n=6:30jt»'l 
new haven classical 
1·00pm THE CLEVELAND ORCHESTRA 
Yale Broadcasting Company, Inc_



**Title: NEW SALE IN COURSE BOOK ANNEX**
**Author: None**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
NEW SALE IN COURSE BOOK ANNEX . .. 
Hundreds of Outstanding Values and Final Clearance Reduc
• All 'Academic Sale' Titles 
formerly reduced to $2.98 
from values up to $50.00 
NOW ONLY $1.98, or Seven · 
books for $10.00 ! 
• NEW SELECTION of Remarkable 
Paperback Titles 
ONLY 98¢ 
(Sale does not include Coursebooks) 
• All $1.00 Hardbound Books 
NOW ONLY 50¢ ! 
• All $1.98 Hardbound Books 
NOW ONLY $1.00, or Seven 
books for $5.00 ! 
• Free Books with any 
Purchase-While Supply 
Lasts! (Limit of 2 books 
per person) 
HOLIDAY SPECIALS! 
• 20% off All Women's Sweaters, 
Women's Department 
• 20-40% off Famous Name Fragrances 
• $49.95 for Famous Maker Watches, 
reg. value up to $150.00 
• NEW Genus II Edition of 
T RIVIAL P U RSUIT $24.95 
Limited Quantity Only 
• FOR ALL YOUR CHRISTMAS 
GIFTS, .S!lop the New ... 
Gift Department 
Housewares Department 
Calendar Department 
Publishers' Close-Out Department 
SUNDAY ONLY SALE 
D ecember 9th from Noon to 5 p.m. Throughout the Store 
•• 

