Publication date: 12/93
Volume 26, Issue 3

**Title: New Haven's Image Problem**
**Author: Melissa Mostof**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Looking down on the city from the 
sixteenth floor, Shriver thinks a lack of 
self-confidence in the city's potential 
pervades New Haven. "If the city can 
overcome its sense of low expectations, 
I think there are tremendous resources 
to be applied to projects." In its crowd-
ed office on the floor below, the 
Chamber of Commerce discusses how 
ineffective legislation and a faulty work 
ethic detract from the creation of an 
environment conducive to business 
development. 

Community leaders question not 
only the attitudes of citizens or the 
industriousness of city officials; they 
challenge the image-makers' basic strat-
egy. In crumbling neighborhoods, resi-
dents wonder whether New Haven 
needs to build up the citizens in the city 
before considering attracting outsiders. 
Shawn Garris, assistant director of the 
Dixwell Community House, explained, 
"To bring jobs into the area you have to 
deal with your human resource base--
do you have the talent 'pool to attract 
Fortune 500 companies?" 

Garris has a vision of what the city 
could do with increased tourist and 
business revenue. "Money could be 
used to support recreational activities 
for youth and seniors, education, and 
police." Changes like these at the neigh-
borhood level could transform the qual-
ity of city life. 

The "ifs" and "buts" of the public 
relations campaign reveal the fragility of 
image-making as a permanent solution 
to these city problems. If people buy 
into the image of the city, then New 
Haven could be on the path to recov-
ery. But if the public relations campaign 
is doomed to failure, the money spent 
on promotion could be used elsewhere, 
especially in the ciry's disadvantaged 
neighborhoods. 

The Special Olympics campaign 
points to certain flaws in the way the 
city relies on outside events for business 
and 
community 
Focusing on one event to transform a 
city seems to many a narrow plan for 
economic 
Shriver 
acknowledges this. "The Special 
Olympics is a one-time event. It's not a 
long-term economic development strat-
egy. It's not a jobs-creation program in 
the long run. There need to be other 
supporting efforts to market the city 
and to move the city forward." 

Even a one-time event may be dif-
ficult for New Haven to pull off. 
Readying the city in two years for the 
International Games will challenge 
New Haven and Special Olympics offi-
cials in fundamental ways. Airport ren-
ovation, restaurant enlargement, and 
deepening of the harbor to allow for the 
cruise ships on which the competitors 
will stay are visible transformations nec-
essary to provide for the participants 
and spectators the Games promise to 
attract. Beyond these physical changes, 
the demands of the Special Olympics 
project require cooperation in the com-
munity. An infrastructure of supporters 
and actors will be essential to the event's 
success. If the Game organizers' cooper-
ation with city officials can mobilize 
New Haven's own citizens to involve 
themselves in the effort, this may do far 
more to improve the city than any 
glitzy brochures or gimmicky slogans. 

The stakes for the Games are high. 
The Special Olympics will put New 
Haven on the tourist maps. City offi-
cials hope that once the mechanisms for 
the Special Olympics are in place, the 
ciry will be ready for further develop-
ment in the areas of business and the 
tourist industry. 

When people from around the 
world arrive in New Haven in 1995, 
the city will see whether promotion 
and image-making are enough. The 
ciry's image-makers won New Haven 
the bid to host the Games. But it is up 
to New Haven to capitalize on the 
vitality and opportunity generated by 
this one spectacular event. 

Melissa Mostof, a junior in Timothy 
Dwight Co~, is on the staff of TNJ.