Publication date: October 19, 2001
Volume: 34
Issue number: 2

**MASTHEAD**
- Publisher: Silpa Prichula
- Editor-in-Chief: Anya Kamenetz
- Managing Editors: Daniel Gutierrez, Phillip Pitts
- Designer: Tatiana Jitcoff
- Production Manager: Carl Hungerford
- Business Manager: Eric Ruthven
- Photography Editor: Jessica Chen
- Associate Editors: Blair Wilson, Matthew Underwood
- Research Director: Jacob Blecher
- Circulation and Subscriptions Manager: Clint Carroll, Sara Hirschhorn
- Staff: Emily Anthes • Jessica Bulman • Suchitra Gandhi • Judith Miller • Benita Singh • Nadia Suman • Elka Thompson
- Managing Staff: Joshua Civin • Peter B. Cooper • Tom Griggs • Brooks Kelley • Jennifer Pins • Henry Schwab • Alan Schoenfeld • Elizabeth Sledge • Fred Stetbag • Thomas Strong
- Advisors: Richard Blow • Jay Carney • Richard Conniff • Ron Conniff • Elisha Cooper • Lauren Rabin • Steven Weisman • David Yager
- Friends: Stacy B. Joud • Anson M. Beard, Jr. • Blair Bennet • Edward B. Bennett, Jr. • Edward B. Bennett III • Paul S. Bennett • Gerald Bruce • Barbara Burnham • Jay Carney • Daphne Carr • Josh Civin • Jonathan M. Dartt •  Connie Clemen • Elisha Cooper • Peter B. Cooper • Andy Conn • Jerry and Rae Conn •  Robert Denison • Albert J. Fox • Mrs. Homer Fox • David Frank • Gregory Fried • Arturo Ganzalez • Shewton Goldman • David Greenberg • Tom Griggs • Stephen Hellman • Jacob Kamensky • Brooks Kelley • Robert Kirkwood • Andrew J. Kuznets, Jr. • Lewis E. Luman • Jim Lowe • E. Noble Lowe •  Luke MacDonald • Martha E. Neil • Peter Neil • Homer H. Newman • Sean O’Brien • Julia Patton • Lewis and Jean Pitt • Josh Plaut • Julia Polson • Lauren Rabin • Fairfield C. Randall • Rollo Ray • Matt Rice • Nicholas X. Rizopoulos • Sean Rohm • Michael and Ann Sal • Dick and Debbie San • Richard Sands • W. Campbell Sikes • Lisa Sargent • Erasmus and William Schwab • Thomas Sconce • Elizabeth Udell • Alex and Betsy Todolo • Melissa Travers • Allen and Susan Waddle • David Yap and family • Sarah Yerpa


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
FEATURES
10 The Stranger Among Us - Matthew Underwood
14 Birthday Candles - Eli Feiman
16 The Thin Blue Line - Anya Kamenetz
22 First Choice - Emily Anthes and Benita Singh
STANDARDS
4 Ed.iton's Note
5 Points of Departure
26 Essay: Who Governs? - Sushma Gandhi
28 The Critical Angle: Fear and Loathing - Clint Carroll
reviewing While America Sleeps: Self-Delusion, Military Weakness, and the Threat to Peace Today by Donald Kagan and Frederick W. Kagan
30 Endnote: Bird of Prey - Judith Miller


**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 1, 2**

THE NEW JOURNAL


**Title: The Stranger Among Us**
**Author: Matthew Underwood**
**Page number(s): 10**

Yaks Muslim and Arab studmts find tokrance more preached than practiced.


**Title: Birthday Candles**
**Author: Eli Feiman**
**Page number(s): 14**

Photos by Eli Feiman


**Title: The Thin Blue Line**
**Author: Anya Kamenetz**
**Page number(s): 16**

150 years of wartime Yak.


**Title: First Choice**
**Author: Emily Anthes and Benita Singh**
**Page number(s): 22**

What too ftw people know about Yak's reproductive policy.


**Title: Who Governs?**
**Author: Sushma Gandhi**
**Page number(s): 26**

Essay:


**Title: The Critical Angle: Fear and Loathing**
**Author: Clint Carroll**
**Page number(s): 28**

reviewing While Americll Slups: Self-Delusion, Military 'Wt-11kness, 11nd 
the Threat to Pe11ce Today by Dona/d Kagan and Frederick W. Kagan


**Title: Bird of Prey**
**Author: Judith Miller**
**Page number(s): 30**

Endnote:



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: The Editors**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The New Journal 
would like to thank: 
4 
Shruti Adhar 
Rachel Berger 
Matthew Fogel 
Sam Frank 
Gabriel Freiman 
Anya Freiman 
Fabrice LeSaffre. 
David Lau 
Alan Schoenfeld 
Photo & Design 
Contributors: 
Jessica Chang 
Tyler Coburn 
David Corson-Knowles 
Ruth DeGolia 

We find introducing this issue a heavy task. Since September 
11, an unrelenting wave of pronouncements and prophe-
cies have been offered up by student columnists, professors, 
community leaders, and other self-appointed arbiters of public opinion. 
Their basic tenet is the same: Our generation has experienced a trans-
formation of character; we find ourselves in a fundamentally altered 
world. 

But what do these words really mean? What is historical change sup-
posed to look like from the inside? Is it like continental drift, so slow and 
profound that it is entirely beyond our perception? Or is it like a Rash of 
_lightning illuminating a whole new landscape for an instant? We don't 
know. We are the children of the end of history. And even as the public 
bombast and Rood of editorials continue unabated, many around us slip 
back into routine, conversations, goals, and worries essentially 
unchanged. 

In this issue, we strive to see how history has brought us here, and to 
examine where we are now. The cover article "A Thin Blue Line" shows 
us that complete clarity never existed on this campus during wartime. 
The aw~ard self-consciousness of being 20 years old is not unique to 
the 21st century. The uncertainty and presumptuousness we feel does not 
make our attempts at clarity any less important or valid. 

Meanwhile, members of our community encounter concrete prob-
lems. As ''The Stranger Among Us" illustrates, Arabs ·and Muslims 
among us are forced to confront social forces shockingly discordant with 
the tolerance so many of us profess. 

We cannot say definitively whether or not we live in a new world 
since September 11, whether our generation has a man~e to pick up, 1 
and whether the words we have written will weigh upon the scales of 
change. What we can say together, though, is that we have tried to do 
what this magazine has taken as its purpose since 1967: to put our 
moment into context. 

-The Editors 
THE NEW JouRNAL 


**Title: A Few Good Men**
**Author: Afich~t~uon**
**Page number(s): 5**

TucKED AWAY BEHI!'fD CITY HALL, on 157 
Orange Street, is an office that most people 
don't even know exists. Before September 
u, it was practically empty all day long. 
Now it has a relatively steady flow of traffic 
of five people a day. It's a small increase, but 
the people in the United States Marine 
Recruiting Office aren't interested in num-
bers. They serve those few young women 
and men who want to do more than just 
wave a flag and proclaim their patriotism. 

In fact, you won't find much flag waving in 
the Marine Recruiting Office. For them 
war is strictly business. 

Walking into a recruiting office for 
the first time is a surreal experience 
for a young, skeptical civilian. The 
floor is covered with plush 
red carpet an~ the 
walls are 
plast~red 
with Marine memo-
rabilia-glossy 
posters of tanks, 
helicopters, 
and 
sabers. Two yellow .boot 
prints appliqued onto the red carpet before 
the front desk indicate where a recruit 
should stand. As I hover near the door, to 
my left is a wall of Polaroid shots of new 
Marine recruits dressed in t-shirts and blue 
jeans. Standing in front of me is a young 
sergeant with a penetrating stare. He is pol-
ishing a dagger. The only thing at all famil-
iar is a bulldog sniffing at my ankles. Only 
this bulldog is not "Handsome Dan," but 
"Tank," the office mascot. 

The office is an elaborate propaganda 
machine, designed to entice potential 
recruits to join the Few, the Proud, the 
Marines. The man sitting behind the first 
desk is Sergeant Rosa, a lean, muscular 
young man whose eyeglasses and composed 
posrure help soften his appearance. "So, 
you ready to join?" he barks at me. 

Intimidated, I respond with a not-so defin-
itive, "Uh, no." However, after telling him 
that I am a srudent at Yale, the question of 
rny joining the Marines is immediately dis-
rnissed-the University prohibits recruiters 
0croBER 19, 2001 
--------------
on its campus of Io,ooo potential soldiers, 
and students almost never express interest. 
However, Sergeant Rosa seems undisrurbed 
by this. Leaning back in his chair, he non-
chalantly remarks, "It doesn't bother me. 
I'd imagine that most Yale students aren't 
· that interested in joining the Marines. 
They're more concerned with making 
money or becoming famous." 

For Sergeant Rosa, the Marine philos-
ophy demands everything that Yalies are 
not. He takes out a set of brass plates and 
lays them on the table. They list everything 
that the Marines offers its 
recruits: Challenge, Pride 
of 
Belonging, 
Leadership 
Management Skills, 
Courage, Poise, and 
Self-confidence. 

What Yale offers 
to 
its 
stu-
dents-educa-
tiona! opportu-
nity, travel and 
adventure, professional development, and 
financial security-according to Sergeant 
Rosa are things that "come and go." 

Marines do not rely on rewards that can 
change so easily. This is why they are the 
"9u for the world," the only armed service 
that can be deployed anywhere in the 
world 
within 
24 
hours 
without 
Congressional approval. For the Marines, 
September II was just another "9u call." 

During my time in the office I hear 
Sergeant Rosa's colleagues express their dis-
satisfaction with the "bunch of fucking 
communists" surrounding them in New 
Haven and at Yale. Fortunately, as Sergeant 
Rosa is pleased to point out to a money-
grubbing Yalie such as myself, 33 percent of 
Fortune .500 companies are owned or run 
by former Marines-an impressive statistic 
for people who are taught to see financial 
security as something that "comes and 
goes." As one of Sergeant Rosa's colleagues, 
Sergeant Beaty, puts it, "Marines do many 
things with few numbers." 

But a new outburst of patriotism is 
sweeping through the country. Is the sight 
of proud Americans waving flags in sup-
port of war a welcome sign to a Marine? 
Sergeant Beaty tells me a story about a lady 
that tried to give him an American flag. He 
was in a coffee shop when she approached 
him to encourage him to put a flag on his 
car. He responded to her by pointing to the 
Department of Defense military identifica-
tion sticker on his truck. "I was letting her 
know that I had been wearing my flag with 
pride long before September 11." He stared 
down at me. "On September 10 we could-
n't give anyone a flag without someone· 
spitting on it or burning it. Now everyone 
fucking wants one." 


**Title: Bill and Grace**
**Author: Patrick Casey Pitts**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

"THANK YOU, that's what I've been waiting 
to hear for three weeks." 

Whether my words differed from any-
one else's, I can't be sure. I've heard it said 
that William Jefferson Clinton, whenever 
he works a crowd, picks out one person for 
a heart-to-heart conversation-it has 
become his signature move. It could have 
been my words, it could have been my 
suave new Eddie Bauer glasses, or it could 
have been the awkward way I'd jammed a 
rain coat and a commemorative poncho 
and a program and a Caribbean novel 
under my left arm so that both of my hands 
were visible, as per the Secret Service's 
ordets. For whatever reason, when I mut-
tered my thanks to the former President 
and shook his hand just after hearing the 
final speech of Yale's tercentennial celebra-
tion, he stopped, kept my hand in his, and 
began to speak. 

President Clinton started by thanking 
me for my words and explaining the moti-
vation behind his speech. "I think that this 
is the best thing I can dq right now, espe-
cially since I'm no longer in public office. I 
can talk to the American people, explain 
5 

what's happening, and assure them that 
things will be all right." It seemed logical, 
although some might hope that a former 
President would use his experience and 
intelligence to shape policy decisions in the 
wake of mind-boggling events like the 
September n terrorist attacks. He then 
expressed concern for the country's young 
adults, who have never experienced such an 
insecure and unstable world. He reiterated 
to me the words of his speech, calling for 
more "positive interdependence" through-
out the globe. Because I had paid careful 
attention during his speech, I took this 
opportunity to in~estigate whether o~;..not 
President Clinton was truly wearing a 
toupee, as had been suggested by a neigh-
bor during the address. However, before I 
could assure myself that his coif was in fact 
real, I was drawn back into his presence by 
his careful reestablishment of eye contact. 

He decided to end with a note of humor, 
making us chuckle by saying, "Osama bin 
Laden doesn't like it when you ·mention 
that, as a Muslim friend informed me, 
Mohammed's first wife was a wealthy inde-
pendent businesswoman who proposed to 
Mohammed herself." 

Listening to him, I felt better, as if the 
weight that had pressed down on my 
shoulders since the attacks had been lifted. 
For a moment, the same charisma that 
brought him eight years in the Presidency 
was focused on a small group ofYalies. The 
handshake in itself was impressive: Even 
though President Clinton is left-handed, 
the grip of his right hand on mine was 
strong at the outset and remained so for the 
ninety seconds he held it, increasing the 
pressure when certain points merited 
emphasis, until the demands of gesticula-
tion broke the bond of our palms. This, I 
thought, is a man who knows how to use a 
handshake. All of it-the touch, the 
relaxed southern drawl, the slow transfer of 
his gaze from one person's eyes to the next, 
the way he cowered over my six feet one 
inch, the musky scene of sweat built up in 
a suit over the course of a day-seemed to 
convey a sense of fatherly concern and 
truth to the throng surrounding him. 

As he moved away my palms were 
sweaty, my face was flushed, and my heart 
was pounding. I realized the import of his 
first words: President Clinton seemed to 
understand that his ideas and intelligence 
were, as they have always been, less impor-
tant than the inspiration and enveloping 
warmth he makes people feel. This is why 
his mere appearance in a crowd of jaded 
Yalies-students who had booed a video of 
the current President the night befor~ 
caused two standing ovations; the applause 
after the speech itself paled in comparison. 

It was only when he moved on and I 
attempted to work my way out of the 
crowd that I caught the gaze of friends and 
strangers around me, staring with awe and 
envy. Clinton moved away, and the crowd 
that had been pressed against my backside 
began to disperse. As I fought my way out, 
hearing the yells of others pressing forward 
to make contact with the former President 
before his motorcade pulled away, I realized 
that the clamor for pictures and hand-
shakes and words was not as ridiculous as 
I'd initially judged. President Clinton's 
vaunted intelligence and political acumen 
notwithstanding, all that had made him an 
important and powerful public figure 
could be captured in my moment with him 
on the steps before Sterling Memorial 
Library. Those packed into the crowd were 
competing to have just such a moment of 
their own. 


**Title: Skulls and Bones**
**Author:  (No author listed)**
**Page number(s): 6**

ON THE MORNING OF j UNE 14, 2001, 
employees of the Giordano Construction 
Company were laying water pipes in front 
of 451 College Street, one of the many con-
struction sites on the Yale campus. Entirely 
oblivious to the mystery they were about to 
unearth, several workers returned from 
their lunch breaks shordy before I PM and 
prepared to fill a trench with trucked-in 
dirt. Suddenly, they saw bone. 

A truckload of soil used for backfill 
outside of the building that now houses the 
Departments of Comparative Literature 
and Religious Studies yielded the skeletal 
remains of more than one person, includ-
ing a fractured jawbone with six teeth. 

What were these bones doing there? No 
one has found a simple answer to this sim-
ple question. 

**A Yale Mystery: Bones on College Street**
**Author: Sacha DeLanghe**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The bones, according to the state's 
medical examiner, are from roo to 150 years 
old. The New Haven Register suggested that 
they carne from a church burial ground, 
maybe the First & Summerfield United 
Methodist Church'~ a few houses away. 

However, such a simple explanation is 
highly unlikely, says Ed Franquemont, 
executive director of the New H aven 
Preservation Trust. "According to my 
knowledge, there never was a cemetery 
associated with this church." 

Yale's chief research archivist Judith 
Schiff offers an altogether different 
explanation. 
Describing 
the 
dis-
covery as 
"puzzling," 
she 
posits 
that 
these 
bones were the 
remains of people 
who were privately 
buried-perhap~ an 
old professor. ~hose 
relatives wished him to 
remain nearby. According to the 
New Haven Colony Historical Society 
records, in the nineteenth century the land 
on College Street was owned by several 
prominent figures, including a dentist, a 
public official, and a minister, any of whom 
may have wished to keep their loved ones 
close at hand. However, as Franquemont 
points out, there were rules prohibiting pri-
vate burials; thus, such a suggestion seems 
only "dimly possible." So could it have 
been foul play? Perhaps these human 
remains are the clue to the so-called 
'Edwards tragedy of 1906,' a mysterious 
murder that took place in the home of one 
of the neighborhood residents. Indeed, as 
Schiff points out, in this case "anything's 
possible." 

Yet we should not forget a crucial part 
of the medical examiner's report-the find-
ing of surgical marks on many of the bones. 
According co a Yale spokesman who asked 
not to be named, the medical examiner 
believes the bones to have come from dis-
carded cadavers used for medical purposes 
when the comer of Prospect and Grove 
Streets was the site of the School of 
Medicine from 1813 to r86o. While medical 
research was uncommon during the early 
nineteenth century, cadavers were neces-
sary for teaching basic anatomy. However, 
since "recent subjects" were hard to come 
by, rumors were rife about students sneak-
ing into the Grove Street Cemetery ro steal 
bodies for classroom use. It was even 
thought that a tunnel connected the ceme-
tery to the medical school to make the stu-
dents' snatching a little easier. Although 
these macabre stories are hard to ver-
ify, the medical school's his-
torical 
librarian Tobey 
Appel acknowledges bod-
ies must have been pro-
cured in a "somewhat 
shady manner." She 
refers to an incident 
in 1824 when a 
riot broke out in 
New 
Haven 
after 
rumor that 
students 
had taken a 
female body 
from 
Haven ceme-
tery proved to be true. Enraged 
townspeople besieged the building for five 
nights; only an armed intervention by the 
local militia was able to quell the crowd's 
anger. The medical school was forced to 
rebury the stolen cadaver. 

With medical markings on the bones 
and fragments revealing evidence of the 
scalpel or bone saw, it is quite possible thar 
the medical examiner's supposition holds 
true. In fact, the backfill the construction 
crew was using may have originated from 
behind the current sss building, since fill 
from various work sites is moved around 
campus regularly to be used wherever nec-
essary. As a result, however, the exact source 
of the din in which the bones were found 
may never be determined. As one local 
newspaper so aptly commented about the 
'EdwardS tragedy' in 1906, "This mystery, 
it is safe to say, never will be cleared up sat-
isfactorily unless the dead will come back 
to tell." 
-Sacha D~Lang~


**Whipping Boys**
**Author: Katie Malizia**

IN 1865, freshman Lyman Hotchkiss Bagg 
might have returned to his room after a 
long day of orientation exercises to find his 
favorite cap missing, or his boxing gloves, 
or perhaps his pipe and tobacco. He looks 
around, confused. Suddenly, there is a 
knock at the door. "Yes?" answers the per-
plexed Bagg. From the other side comes 
laughter and cries of "Open the door, 
Fresh!" and "Let us in, Freshie, if you don't 
want to die!" A crowd of rowdy and inebri-
ated sophomores bursts into the room and 
orders him to climb on his desk. If he refus-
es, they place him there by force, binding 
him if necessary. Having subdued their 
prey, they pull cigars and pipes from their 
pockets and proceed to blow smoke in his 
face, all the while ordering him co recite 
poetry in Greek, explain the principles of 
Euclid, say the alphabet backwards, sing 
Yale songs, or dance a jig. 

This is just one of the bizarre hazing 
rituals Bagg himself describes in his book 
Four Years at Yale, published in 1871. The 
book was part of a Yale tradition in which 
each class would write its own history 
shortly after graduation. According ro 
Bagg, upperclassmen in general, and 
sophomores in particular, considered it 
their sacred duty to torment freshmen 
without mercy, doing everything from 
breaking into their rooms and stealing their 
personal belongings to shoving them into 
the street as they passed on the sidewalk. 
The harassment was so vicious that Bagg 
openly encouraged freshmen to take up 
arms against their oppressors: "With suffi-
cient warning, on both sides," he claimed, 
"a pistol-shot through the door is the surest 
way to scatter a crowd of Sophs pressing 
against it, and though they vow dire 
vengeance against him in consequence, a 
Freshman who thus defends himself will 
not be likely afrerwards to suffer at their 
hands." However, he is quick to point out, 
brandishing a pistol at the perpetrators 
once they have entered the room is just 
"sheer folly." 

The old boys ofYale also took a more 
literal approach to the tradition of"Rush." 
On an appointed night, usually in response 
to a challenge from the sophomores, 
crowds of "Freshes" anti "Sophs" would 
gather at opposite ends of Library Walk to 
battle it out for the sake of class honor. At 
a given signal they would rush the oppos-
ing class at a dead sprint determined to 
break the other's ranks, though it mean 
scratched faces, scraped knees, and torn 
clothes. Rush usually continued in this way 
until the faculty sent everyone back to their 
lodgings or the police started making 
arrests. 

But none of this, Bagg insists, com-
pares to the genuine "hazing" reserved for 
special cases of freshmen insolence. If a 
freshman was deemed particularly ornery 
or uncooperative, a "self-appointed 
committee" of sophomores lured him 
into a closed carriage where he was 
bound, gagged, and blindfolded. They 
would then drive off with their victim to 
some remote location, often East or 
West Rock, where, depending on how 
much they disliked the offending Frosh, 
they would cut his hair, write his class 
year on his cheek in indelible ink, 
drench him in cold water, strip him 
naked and smear his body with paint, or 
as Bagg puts it, "practice certain things 
which cannot be mentioned ... When. they 
tired of this they left him, hog-tied and 
naked, to make his own way home. If he 
was especially lucky, they might toss him 
over the wall of Grove Street Cemetery, 
where he stayed until the gates were 
unlocked the next morning. 

Interestingly, Bagg traces the abuse of 
freshmen back to Yale undergraduate regu-
lations. As late as 1804, Yale freshmen were 
apprenticed to serve upperclassmen, who 
could summon them any time during their 
free hours. "It being the duty of Seniors," 
according to the 1760 rulebook, "to teach 
Freshmen the laws, usages and customs of 
the College, to this end they are empow-
ered to order the whole freshmen class, or 
any member of it, to appear, in order to be 
instructed and reproved, at such a time and 
place as they shall appoint; when and 
where every freshman shall attend, answer 
all proper questions, and behave decently." 

Anyone want a freshman slave? 

The cruelest of these practices have 
mercifully receded into the past, and Bagg 
admits that, despite the abuse, "It is the 
freshmen," he says, "who go to the greatest 
excess in all sort of indulgences" from 
"drunkenness" to "lechery." At least some 
things never change. 
-Kati~ Malizia


**Pomp**
**Author: Matthew Patunon**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

ON OcrOBER 5-7, 2001, Yale welcomed 
back its alumni to a third tercentennial 
weekend. Though special attempts were 
made to involve current students, senti-
ments on campus ranged from uninterest-
ed to indifferent. But I, an eager freshman, 
decided not to be cynical; in fact, inspired 
by a surge of school spirit, I christened 
myself "Tercentennial Boy" and dedicated 
my soul to Yale's birthday. Engulfed in a sea 
of black Mercedes sedans and joined by a 
swarm of silver-haired men, I made it my 
mission to get to the bottom of ail things 
"three hundred." Was there anything 
beneath the hoopla? Was the gala more 
than a self-congratulatory reunion? 

The weekend opened Friday evening 
with "A Celebration Of Tradition and 
Service" outside the Bowl. More than 20 
organizations, 15 academic departments 
and schools, and beleaguered sports teams 
like fencing were invited to flaunt their 
achievements under makeshift tents. I 
arrived rwo hours before the start of the 
show, hoping to rub should.ers with 
throngs of other eager Yalies, but I found 
only nine people there including personnel. 
Needing to pass some time, I dragged rwo 
suitemates onto the basketball court where 
I found a charming Southern alumnus of 
the class of 1959 in a ragged pinstriped suit 
old enough to have been worn by James 
Naismith. I asked him if he wanted to play. 
He nodded in assent, and then the two of 
us took on my suitemates. Despite his 
advanced age, he knew how to talk shit and 
had a beautifully old-school sky-hook. I 
threw him a couple of passes he might have 
slammed down were it still 1959, but he fin-
ger-rolled them in. After the old man and I 
finished routing my friends, I asked him 
about the Yale of his day. "Not going to 
school with women was a problem ... it led 
to nothing good, because I honestly didn't 
know how to interact with them. None of 
us knew how." As we walked off the court, 
I saw his wife waiting for him. Apparently 
he had learned. The crowds now began to 
overflow Eli Village. It was Tercentennial 
Time. 

I took in the scenery in all its 
grandeur: old people, older people, and 
confused students who looked as though 
they had arrived at the party thirty years 
earlier. As I passed an intriguing exhibit on 
robotics, I saw a faculty jazz band headed 
by a chiseled, So-year-old tuba player. 
They were playing an upbeat Dixieland 
tune and the crowd was very into them. 
These guys, whose skill paralleled their 
age, redefined cool; for a moment, I 
would have given up youth itself to 
become one of them. This urge only 
intensified as the saxophonist, sporting 
a slick 50s Vegas look, slyly winked at a 
mesmerized (not to mention beautiful) 
sophomore. He represented an antique-
ly sophisticated generation ofYale men 
who wore raccoon coats and drank brandy. 
I wanted in on that world, and they want-
ed to go back to it .. 

As hot as the band was, the buzz for 
me had shifted to a dark corner behind a 
gigantic plastic balloon in the likeness of a 
Tostitos bag. A crowd surrounded a myste-
rious, towering figure accompanied by 
what he claimed was a bulldog. Now I'm 
no dog breeder, but I know 'a }?ulldog when 
I see one, and this was more like an ugly, 
enormous, vicious Chihuahua. Little kids 
tried to play with the thing, and its owner 
encouraged them: "Pet Bulldog, Bulldog 
loves you." The cute kids begged to differ, 
giggling in unison, "That's not a bulldog!" 
Despite ethical reservations about interact-
ing with a person who desecrates our mas-
cot and 
dupes our community, 
I 
approached the character because he radiat-
ed a kind of familiar avuncular vibe. He 
said to me, "I declare this day a divine spec-
tacle." As into the whole thing as I was, I 
replied, "Yeah, it's fun, but you might be 
slightly overdoing it." The guy immediate-
ly turned on me, clutched his dog leash, 
and gave me a look that said, "If you don't 
get lost I'm gonna sick this bitch on you so 
fast you won't know what hit you, you lit-
de smartass." Kids were frightened, the 
crowd began to dissipate, and needless to 
say, I boned ~ut. 

I checked my cell. It was time to enter 
the stadium. I took my seat in the center of 
the Davenport section only to find some-
thing I hadn't seen for hours: throngs of 
young people. I started a conversation with 
the girl next to me, but it all seemed so rou-
tine; I missed the mystique of the old-
timers. 

The show in thcf Bowl, entitled "For 
God, for Country, for Yale ... Forever" lived 
up to its name in that it lasted approxi-
mately forever; but it was still studded with 
a few gems. The rumor all along had been 
that Britney Spears would make a cameo, 
but we got something far more special: Big 
Bird. Not only did the gentle giant engage 
in witty banter with William F. Buckley, Jr., 
but he led the crowd in a heartwarming 
rendition of the Sesame Street song. The 
Bowl erupted in applause as we all 
regressed 15 or more years. It all seemed too 
good to be true and this ·was still before 
Paul Simon took center stage. When he 
went into "Graceland" and "Bridge Over 
Troubled Water," the girl next to me called 
her dad in New York and simply said, 
"Listen." It was quite a moment. All this, in 
addition to a prc;: .. Tecorded greeting from 
the 41st president, constant name drop-
ping, and way too much orchestral music, 
lefr me with one question: What more 
could you ask for? This was an event that at 
different times resembled a second-tier 
awards show, a tight concert, and (most 
often) a ridiculously lavish bat mitzvah. 

The night climaxed with an intimidat-
ing fireworks display. After the finale, I 
stood up, collected myself, and looked 
down at the flock of alumni on the field. I 
saw men and women who were, well, very 
old. And then it hit me. Before I know it, I 
will be the alumnus, blue blazer and all. 
-Matth~ Patunon

**Title: The Stranger Among Us**
**Author: Matthew Underwood**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I
T'S FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 
2001. Members of the Asian 
American Students Alliance, 
the Association of Native Americans 
at 
~Yale, 
the 
Arab 
Students 
Association 
(ASA), 
Muslim 
Students Association (MSA), and others 
have gathered at one of Yale's cultural 
houses. Many here were at an interfaith 
vigil earlier in the day sponsored by the 
MSA and Yale Hillel. Jews had read from 
the Koran, Muslims from the Old 
Testament prophets; everyone prayed-
together-for peace. In the face of 
tragedy, Yale students look first to one 
another for consolation and support. 
That night at the house, they were doing 
what students everywhere were doing: ban-
tering nervously over strains of hip-hop and 
rock, trying again to relax and to laugh, 
doing anything but studying, anything but 
watching TY. 

The scene could have been lifted from the 
pages of Yale's promotional literature. I imagine 
a caption beneath the. photograph: At Yak you 
will ga th~ b~st ~ducation available anywh"~· lOu 
will b~ in th~ vibrantly div~~ company of your purs, 
th~ group who will probably teach you th~ most in your 
four y~ars of study. Th~ campus is a gartkn of tokranc~ 
wh~ any stutknt may gath" th~ flowers of a /ib"al 
~ducation fruly during an untkrgraduau ca"" 
that com~s to sum iik~ one long_ stimulating 
conversation. 

Yale's Muslim and Arab students find 
tolerance more preached than practiced 
"I'm very lucky to be at Yale. It's a very open-minded atmos-
phere," Tammer Riad, an Egyptian-American from New Jersey, told 
me that night. Nilofar Gardezi, an Mghan-American from 
California, concured: She's not felt any sidelong glances or heard 
any negative comments. "And I'm not surprised," she says "because 
I feel the Yale community is very open." 

I listen and nod, but in my mind I imagine that caption with 
another sentence penciled in after September n: This could be the 
biggest lie you've ever believed. 

E
VERYONR AT THE HOUSE had been told time and again that 
Yale was safe. Still, they told each other one more time. 
Some displaced their concerns, focusing on the now con-
tinuous stream of news stories 
reporting acts of liacred and calls 
for retaliation ·against Arabs, 
other Middle-Easterners, Asians, 
Muslims, Sikhs, Hindus, and 
others 
across 
country. 
~Muhajaba, watch out.'ll 
~If you look Arab, be careful.' 
Someone's friend's ' mosque was firebombed outside Chicago. 
Someone else's parents were told to go back where they belong. 
Another person describes a bed-sheet sign spotted by a friend in 
New Jersey: Muslim Hunting Season Now Open. 

Sammy Mansour, a Palestinian Muslim from Tira, Israel, who 
holds both American and Israeli citizenship, brings up the vandal-
izing of an MSA building at Wayne State University in Detroit: 
Bricks were thrown through windows; cars were smashed. All agree 
that such an incident could never happen here. 

Yet Mansour himself admits, "There's always a threat in the 
background." Referring to an escort list created for ASA and MSA 
members, he says, "We're just taking precautionary measures." But 
others bring up incidents occurring in town, not far from campus: 
people threatened, singled out for their race or creed. "You never 
know," Mansour says. "It could eventually spill over onto campus. 
But so far it hasn't." 

Gardezi, however, has a story to counter that. She describes a 
joint ASA-MSA meeting held the night after the attacks. A friend, she 
says, saw from a distance a woman in a headscarf walking down a 
COrridor in WiUiam L. Harkness Hall. She then overheard voices 
fiom a nearby classroom: "How dare she wear that? How dare she 
show her face at a time like this?" "We all collectively gasped," 
Gardezi says of the reaction by those at the meeting that night. 
"'This could have been me. There are only four of us here on the 
whole campus who are muhajaba {Muslim women who wear the 
hijab, a traditional headscarf)." "That was the first incident we had 
heard of ... and we didn't know what to anticipate. We were going 
around the circle, and time and time again someone kept saying 
'Muhajaba, watch out.' 'If you look Arab, be careful.'" 

Fadi Kanaan, co-president of the ASA, who is a Lebanese citi-
zen, describes "a wall of bitterness" dividing campus since 
September n. One wonders if the barrier he describes is noticed 
only by those whom it excludes. Kanaan gives the atmosphere in the 
Yale office where he works as an example of the change: "Just the 
fact that you are racially affiliated with a group of people--not even 
religiously or politically--can make people think that you feel dif-
ferently about this whole situation." He tries to understand his co-
workers' attitudes, saying, "These are people I've known for years. I 
know that ... it's subconscious and involuntary. But you can feel it." 

T
HR SUSPICIOUS GLANCES, the prejudice, the threats are 
nothing new to Sammy Mansour. He says of the still 
nascent ASA, of which he is the Political Action Chair, 
"We're accepted on campus, but we're always going to have to face 
opposition from some people who want to make us look like some 
evil organization." Mansour tells me about hateful emails, threats, 
and a nasty missive in the Valentine's Day issue of The Yale Herald. 
In this fall's Light & Troth "Freshman Survival Guide," Davi 
Bernstein, former co-president of Yale Friends of Israel (YFI), warns 
freshman to avoid the ASA, a group he labels as "anti-American." 

Many Arabs and Jews on campus felt compelled to take sides 
as Zionists and Palestinian nationalists clashed. The ASA was found-
ed last fall as the current Palestinian Intifada, or uprising, was tak-
ing shape in Israel. Though thousands of miles from the West Bank, 
the campus has again become a battleground as the violence con-
tinues. Two Israeli soldiers gave a Master's Tea in Trumbull College 
on November 15, 2000, and retired Israeli General Yoav Gallant 
addressed a large crowd assembled in sss on January 23, 2001, at an 
event organized by the YFI. Outisde each event, ASA students dis-
tributed leaflets and held protest signs. Both time's, police escorts 
were needed to eject unruly spectators, including the faculty advi-
sor to the ASA, genetics professor Mazin 
Qumsiyeh. ASA members heckled the Israeli 
soldiers, calling them Nazis, says one YFI 
member. Gallant said Palestinians were no 
better than dogs, an ASA member counters. 
Both sides deny the other's accusations. 

After the first incident, the ASA tried to 
arrange a compromise, according to the 
Yak Daily Nnus. Each group had scheduled 
speakers w appear at campus events on 
November 28, 2000. Fadi Kanaan, who 
had invited Norman Finklestein, a Jew 
known for criticizing Israel as a colonialist 
state, encouraged a debate between him 
and Ehud Luz, an Israeli political scientist 
invited to speak by YFI. Luz refused, how-
ever, out of "dignity and self respect," and 
the lectures were held separately and simul-
taneously. Instead of a dialogue, there were 
two monologues, each on its own stage. 

Verbal clashes continued into the 
spring semester, with partisans barraging 
the opinion pages of the N~s with guest 
columns, calling for dialogue and criticiz-
ing the other side for refusing to talk. The 
ASA lodged an informal complaint of 
harassment against YFI to the Yale College 
Dear~'s Office. A meeting between the two 
groups proposed by Assistant Dear~ Edgar 
Letriz never materialized after members of 
the A.SA rejected the invitation. In the last 
column the Nnus printed on the subject, 
which appeared on January 30, 2001, 
Qurnsiyeh repeated the same vain hope 
expressed by both sides: that the next inter-
action between the two groups be "a dia-
logue open to both sides equally and fair-
ly." What followed, however, were months 
of public silence. 

Now, nearly a year after the conflict, 
reconciling the partisans seems impossible. 
I tried to organize a group interview with 
Bernstein and Aaron Faust, former co-pres-
idents of YFI, along with Kanaan and 
Qumsiyeh. Both Bernstein and Kanaan 
explained that the two sides have grown so 
far apart that neither even recognizes the 
other's 
existence. 
Bernstein 
said, 
"Whenever we attempted a dialogue with 
the ASA, we were rebuffed and made to look 
like fools. This won't happen again. A 
proper dialogue is not possible with the ASA 
because they do not believe Israel is a legit-
imate entity, and thus YFI is not legitimate 
to them, either. This is the sad truth." 

Kanaan, who reluctantly agreed to the 
meeting, described a similar feeling among 
ASA members. "The YFI has ingrained mis-
perceptions of what the ASA is and what its 
members do," he explained. "They think 
we support Arafat and the dictators of the 
Arab world. We see ourselves as a group of 
Arabs and Arab-Americans who want to 
celebrate our culture and raise Arab aware-
ness on campus. We've tried to work with 
them before, but they bluntly refused. As a 
result, it's really difficult to have a group 
interview with last year's YPI leaders." 

Qumsiyeh was the only one to agree with 
enthusiasm; he even asked that the event 
take place in front of an audience. 

Faust also refused to participate in a 
group interview, though he did offer to 
meet me in person and c:xplain why. "The 
issue is unique in its emotional depth," he 
explained. Everyone involved has been per-
sonally touched by the violence. He 
recalled Qumsiyeh's stories of brutal treat-
ment at the hands of Israeli police. Faust 
himself has family members who've fought 
in every major Israeli-Palestinian war. He 
asked, "How is Mazin going to have an un-
emotional discussion with me?" The two 
groups might be able to talk, he speculated, 
but only if they discussed anything but pol-
itics. "Th~ can't be any dialogue between


**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Matthew Underwood**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
the ASA and the YPJ about Palestine," he 
says emphatically. Then he reconsiders. "Is 
it possible? Probably. But it hasn't hap-
pened yet. Why can't it happen here? Well, 
maybe people here aren't as open-minded 
as they say they are."':· 

A
TH£ PARTY IS DYING DOWN at the 
cultural house, Gardezi and I end 
up on the porch, talking about 
how Yale has changed since September n. 
A junior who speaks with self-assurance, 
Gardezi is caught off guard when asked if 
she has always felt safe here. Her breath 
quickens a moment as she pauses. 
Collecting herself, she admits that she has 
felt like an outsider at times. "It's ironic," 
she says, speaking of the post-catastrophe 
atmosphere on campus. "I only really start-
ed to feel safe and comfortable this last 
y.:ar. I didn't feel self-conscious anymore. I 
didn't feel like I was this person draped in 
this cloth and people were staring at me." 
That newfound security was shattered 
when news of the attacks came. "I have a 
brother who works in New York," Gardezi 
says. "But I felt like I couldn't react. I had 
10 wear this stone expression on my face, 
because people automatically see the head 
covering and they want to read your face. 
'What does it mean? Is she happy?'" 
Gardezi describes a feeling common 
among many Arab and Muslim students: 
that their otherness is now seen as a threat. 
•Honest to God, I don't know what people 
think when they see me, and I'm not going 
0cro&£R 19, 2001 
to go that far in speculating," she says. 
Tammer Riad expresses a similar frustra-
tion. Speaking of the Arab and Muslim 
communities as a whole, he says he feels as 
if "we have to come together and prove to 
the American public that we grieve as 
much as they do, if not more. You know, 
we're American too." 

While some students stay silent in an 
attempt to prove their patriotism, others 
believe it is important to speak freely. 
Gardezi, for instance, expresses concern 
about the future of Afghanistan, the home-
land she hasn't seen since age three. "What 
are we going to do, bomb the countryside? 
The people there are already dying. Theyre 
already starVing ... It just doesn't make 
sense." Describing an identity that some 
might interpret as contradictory, she con-
tinues, "At my core, I'm still an Afghan-
an Afghan-American . . . I'm just as 
American as anyone else, and if I have to 
prove it to someone, well, I don't need to 
concern myself with them." 

GA.RDEZI HEADS BACK JNSIO£ tO 
the party, a bicyclist pedals past 
on Crown Street. "usA! uSA!" he 
shouts in the direction of the house. A 
week before, I would have thought such an 
outburst bizarre. Now I think it seems nor-
mal enough, even admirable. Then, I begin 
to consider his intentions and to wonder 
who he was. A patriotic Yalie? Looked like 
it. A friend of mine? Could have been. A 
bigot? Perhaps. I walk home alone, won-
dering how it came to be that the three pos-
sibilities could so easily all be true. 
IIIJ 
Matthnu Undnwood. 
a junior in Davmport Co/kg~. 
is an associate ~ditor for TNJ. 


**Title: Birthday Candles**
**Author: Eli Felman**
**Page number(s): 14**

Photos by Eli Felman 
THE NEW JouRNAL 


**Author:  (Not specified)**
**Page number(s): 15**

"Esperanza no temorf Hope not fear!" The chant rose in the twilight as a crowd of over 2,500 filed toward the 
Yale Bowl. The group Included members of Yale unions Locals 34 and 35, the Graduate Employees and 
Students Organization, Yale-New Haven hospital workers, members of the clergy and local congregations, and 
undergraduate organizers of the nascent student union United Students at Yale-a bewildering variety of indi-
viduals and interests. They gathered on the night of Yale's tercentennial gala to demonstrate their unity of 
purpose: a desire for a better Yale, one that pays higher wages, recognizes organized graduate students, hos-
pital workers, and undergraduates, and rethinks its role in the city which surrounds it. 



**Title: Yale and War**
**Author: Anya Kamenetz**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
BY ANYA KAMENETZ 
"THE OUTBREAK OF [THE WAR] 
FOUND THE 
UNPREPARED AND THE COLLEGE STUDENTS 
AND IGNORANT • •• THE MAJORITY, EITHER LUKEWARM OR 
INDIFFERENT, REMAINED MERELY SPECTATORS THROUGH-
OUT THE ENTI RE CONFLICT." 
These words could easily refer to this month's bombing of 
Afghanistan. But they are taken from Ellsworth Eliot's 1932 history 
Yak in the Civil war. I find the echo fascinating, as the last month 
of national uncertainty has led me to a search for historical context. 
How should we, as studentS, address war from within an institution 
older than the nation itself? 

The answers I found were surprisingly enduring. In every 
major American war, Yale has been faced with an existential chal-
lenge: How can it continue to prepare elite young men for the 
future through a liberal arts education when that future is endan-
gered and those young men are needed to fight? Throughout us his-
tory, the University has adapted to the requirementS of the time, 
defending both irs values and its methods as crucial to the nation's 
best interests. "In general, war has strengthened the University's 
confidence in itself;'' said Gaddis Smith, professor emeritus and 
eminent historian ofYale. 

Furthermore, Yale and irs studentS have always responded to 
war with an eye toward building both the nation's history and their 
own futures. The names carved into the marble walls of Woolsey 
Hall bespeak the university's pride in its contribution to the nation-
al destiny. But as time passes, we may look very differently at both 
self-anointed heroes and the many in every age who allowed histo-
ry to pass them by. 

T
he War Between the Scates was the first to affect Yale sub-
stantially. During the American Revolution, the college, with 
only about 6o studentS, simply dosed down for a year. The War of 
1812 and the Mexican War barely hindered Yale's growth or estab-
lishment. When news of war came to Yale during spring break in 
1860, therefore, it reached a student body that had, like the current 
one, grown up in peaceful and prosperous times. They were uncon-
16 
cerned with policies. Eliot pointS out that during the'entire ten years 
prior to the war, only one essay on any political subject appeared in 
any student publication. 

One immediate effect of the Civil War was the departure of 
Southern studentS. But what ofYale's brave young Northern sons? 
Were their heartS filled with fire for the glorious conflict? Not so 
much. Neither faculty nor administration especially encouraged 
service in the war, according to Eliot. In fact, the faculty decided 
against allowing a leave of absence for those deciding to serve. All 
in all, only about eleven percent of the class. of 1865 saw action, 
including 17 who served over their summer break. Out of all of 
Yale's studentS and living alumni of the time, 932 or one-fifth 
fought in the war-775 Union and 157 Confederate. 

On campus, the attitude toward the war was surprisingly flip-
pant. In essays such as "My War Experience" and "Our Army 
Correspondence," appearing in the Yak Literary Magazine in 1862, 
war service sounded like a bad vacation. One student wrote from 
the Shenandoah Valley: "The only thing we rook at this point were 
stout colds ... New Haven fogs don't get anything like what we cap· 
cured in Philadelphia, where we held a severe struggle with numer-
ous ditches and brambles." 

Of course there were heroic stories as well, like that of James 
Brand in the History of the Class of I865. "In the thick of the fight-
ing at Fredericksburg, Chancellorsville & Gettysburg. Carried his 
wounded colonel off the "Wheat Field" in the face of a galling fire. 
For this act, Congress awarded him a gold medal." On his return to 
New Haven in the spring, "Professor Thacher is said to have 
mounted the fence and proposed 'three cheers for James Brand."' 

But the average student distinctly lacked brio. William 
Stocking, class of x865, quips in Yak in the Civil war, "We thought 
the war was about over or we wouldn't have enlisted at all." He 


--- Page 17 ---

recounts a long :1maginary conversation with a fellow soldier who 
sounds like a Viemam protester-he "had been drafted and he had-
n't money to buy a substitute; the roads to Canady was all guarded; 
he would have to go to the front; he might get killed and then what 
would become of him?" The soldier ends by lamenting char he was-
n't a sick, black, b,;lby girl, "For then I would surely never have to 
serve." 

A more thoughtful attempt to rationalize studenrs' lack of par-
ticipation was the essay, "In WarTime," published in the Lit in June 
1864. Ir follows the average student's hemming and hawing between 
the campus "contagion of enthusiasm" and his family's worry. 
The Yale man tells himself that the war ought to be fought by the 
lower classes: "There were other men who were stouter, men who 
had no employment, and no settled plans, there were enough of 
these men to ftli up the ranks on the first call, and probably they 
would ftnish the war." As the war drags on, and the carnage gets 
worse, he feels not reliefbut regret."Vicksburg, Gettysburg, are his-
torical names, but you have no share in them ... others chide your 
alma mater for having kept so many of her sons at home." Sharing 
in "historical" glory, even if that meant death, should be part of the 
Yale spirit. 

The essay concludes with a theme repeated again and again 
over the next century: Yale men could be great in war, but their tal-
enrs are better served by shaping history in peace. In this case, an 
appeal is made to studentS to go south as carpetbaggers: "There is a 
whole race to be elevated." And this wasn't just rhetoric. Smith 
points out Yale's strong role in the establishment of black colleges 
after Reconstruction; in the 188os there was a higher enrollment of 
blacksrudenrs at Yale than at any time until the 196os, mostly trans-
fer studentS from colleges like Fisk with Yale graduates on their fac-
ulties. 

OCTOBER 19, 2001 

he History of the Class o/1918 includes an essay on "Yale in the 
Civil War and Yale in the World War" by Yale Law Professor 
Simeon E. Baldwin, class of r861. He goes through the relatively 
paltry statistics of those from Yale who served in his youth before 
concluding, "These figures are in striking contrast to those which 
the next university catalogue will describe. The college is now half 
depleted, dining hall dosed, and the campus is a daily drill ground. 
StudentS go about in Khaki and the only lectures or addresses which 
attract any interest are on the war." 

Indeed, the degree to which Yale turned all irs resources toward 
war in both WW1 and WWII is hard ro imagine today. "We were a 
very militaristic college," says Smith, "much more militaristic than 
Harvard. We were the only one that had irs own military program 
during the neutrality period." Prior to the establishment of the 
national Reserve Officers Training Corps (ROTC) in 1916, Yale signed 
up 500 students for training in field artiliery maneuvers. Private 
donations built a drill hall and stables out on the Yale Field, and 
each Yale Battery drilled an hour-and-a-half a week. In the summer 
of 1916 a company of 120 srudenrs, including Prescott Bush and 
Hiram Bingham, the future discoverer of Machu Picchu, went to 
training camp at Tobyhanna, Pennsylvania, and spent a wonderful 
vacation learning to swear and dig ditches. 

Even before America entered the war, sons of Eli were in the 
trenches. Most famously, Karl Llewellyn, an American who had 
attended high school in Germany, joined the German forces as soon 
as war broke out. As he wrote to his class, "I believe that Germany 
has been forced into this conflict through no fault of her own ... I 
shall be in the greatest epoch of the century. I shal! see history made, 
and see it in Germany, with an understanding that few have had." 
He received the Iron Cross before being removed from Germany 
through the intercession of the American ambassador, and returned 


--- Page 18 ---

to Yale in time co graduate with his class. He later tried in vain to 
join the American army, and went on to become a tegendary pro-
fessor of law. Junior Will Thaw enlisted in the French army in 1915. 
He wrote: "I am going to take a part, however small, in the great-
est, and probably last, war in history, which has apparently devel-
oped into a fight of civilization against barbarism." 

Once war was declared, again during spring break, "Yale 
became a military camp," says Smith. The dorms were under mili-
tary supervision, Old Campus and Cross Campus were guarded by 
sentries, and nearly the entire student body was enrolled in the 
ROTC training course. The Class of 1917 published a separate war 
R~cord along with its History, the only Yale class to do so. Three 
hundred and sixry-four out of 415 students have some service record 
listed. These range from the bombers of the flying "Yale Gang" to 
artillery officers to members of the Chinese Labor Corps of the 
British Expeditionary Forces. 

What spurred Yale's eagerness for war? Football, according to 
Professor Smith. "It had quite a bit co do with what was then called 
the Yale spirit, which has quite a bit to do with football," he said. 
"Players were heroes who sacrificed time and pain for the greater 
glory of Yale . . . Yale invented college football as we know it." 

Throughout the First World War, victories over Princeton and 
Brown shared space with victories at Berne or the Somme on the 
front pages of the News. The class of 1917 put it this way: 
18 
All throughout the year we had been growing in our class 
a certain spirit best typified in our College motto, 'For 
God, for Country, and for Yale', which in June was des-
tined to manifest itself in a practical way and amply prove 
the justification of its existence. It was the spirit of mili-
tarism, preparedness, and service. 

This view was echoed in the boosterism of President Hadley, 
who, according to Smith, went so far as co state at the dedication of 
Woolsey Hall in 1919, '"these honored dead have fulfilled the ulti-
mate purpose of the university by dying'." 

Not everyone was thrilled by the prospect of drill teams shar-
ing the Yale fields with football scrimmages. The discussion of the 
formation of Yale Batteries included a letter co the News from stu-
dent G.R. Cl!cler on October 5, 1915. "The military regime must 
inevitably have a vicious effect on the intellectual ideals, on the 
thinking of every man in college," Curler wrote. "Worst of all, we 
should be caught to think of organized murder as a sort of game, on 
the whole rather good sport." 

Whatever the objections of students like Cutler or the odd 
pacifist professor like William Lyons Phelps, Yale forged lasting 
links with the military during World War I. Yale's rotc program 
would continue, with for-credit courses in "military science"-
"how to dig a latrine," according to Smith-until widespread oppo-
sition to the Vietnam War led to the program's abandonment in 
1969. 

HE WORLD'S SECOND "TOTAL WAll." BROUGHT a greater degree 
of militarization a,nd upheaval to the University than had yet 
been seen. In July 1941 students lost their blanket deferment from 
the dra& for the first time. As in World War I, the campus became 
a military camp. This time several different wings of the military set 
up on campus: the Enlisted Reserve Corps, Navy· Line and Air, 
Marines, Aimy Air Corps, and the Aimy. Most trainees were not 
drafted, but in February and March 1943 Yale Goo students were 
called up in rwo weeks. The campus was in mass confusion, with 
studentS packing and unpacking, holding multiple "liquid" good-
bye parties, auditing their classes restlessly. 

As the war intensified, President Seymour instituted major 
changes in Yale's curriculum and policies. He wrote co the Class of 
1944: "In defense against aggressive powers whose success will mean 
the destruction of all freedoms without which education is mean-
ingless, the University must devote herself without limit of effort to 
a single, special service--helping to win the War. To this end all the 
resources of Yale are pledged." Yale moved to a year-round schedule 
and the traditional curriculum was curtailed co allow students to 
graduate in seven semesters while simultaneously training for the 
military. 

Professor Smith says that in contrast co the bombastic rhetoric 
of wwt, the Second World War brought a grimmer attitude to the 
Universiry. As the History of th~ Class of I944 reads: "No one could 
say that our new way of life was as enjoyable as the old, or that all 
our lase days here have been pleasant." But the students go on co 
underline their own necessity to history in terms familiar from pre-
vious generations of Yale students. "· ... that these changes were nee-



**Title: Yale and the Vietnam War**
**Author: Anya Yurchenko**
**Page number(s): 19-20**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
essacy for our future well-being, a justifica-
tion of our remaining in a university exis-
tence, none can deny." In ordinary times, 
Ivy League students hardly have co cast 
about for a justification of their education. 
But in times of war, as the students of the 
class of 1917 wrotl, "the constellation of 
Mars" has often eclipsed "the scar of knowl-
edge." 

THAT IS, UNTIL VIETNAM. "The deep 
misgivings about the war, compound-
ed by the immorality of using an 
inequitable draft to fight it, generates a bit-
ter skepticism of the values which motivate 
all established authority." These words 
come not from a leftist student publication 
but from 
Yale 
President 
Kingman 
Brewster's address to the freshmen (and for 
the ftrst time, women) in September 1969. 
During this war, the administration's ener-
gy was once again focused on preserving 
the integrity of the University. But, as 
Brewster recognized, the threat this time 
was internal. 

Yale studel;its of the time who talk now 
about the war years focus their attention on 
why the university was not destroyed by 
the nearly universal opposition to the war, 
the draft, and the establishment. Strobe 
Talbott, former deputy Secretary of State 
and head ofYale's new Center for che Study 
of Globalization, says, "At Yale the demon-
strations were almost universally peaceful, 
and if one person deserves credit for chat, 
it's Kingman Brewster. He really showed by 
example the importance of presenring the 
civility of discourse." 

Talbott was Chairman of the Nro;s in 
1967 when he published an editorial about 
a draft protest petition then in circulation, 
headed "They Won't Go." "Strobe Talbott 
actually is probably the single person who 
most turned Brewster against the war," says 
journalist Mark Zanger, who was immor-
talized as bushy-haired campus radical 
"Megaphone Mark" in Garry Trudeau's 
Doonesbury strips of the period. (Zanger 
claims che character is a composite.) 

"When [Strobe] joined the ocher edicors in 
writing a 'We Won't Go' editorial ... 
Brewster noticed that even the best and 
brightest by his definition were not going." 
For Zanger and ochers seeking co motivate 
direct action, however, the moderation of 
the leadership was not all positive. 

"Brewster was very hard for activists 
because he actually maintained some sense 
of openness . . . Ivy presidents like Cordier 
at Columbia or Pusey at Harvard, to name 
two, went down in the sixties because they 
took measures chat shut down and polar-
ized the campus. [At Yale] you couldn't just 
do anything and provoke acts of blatant 
stupidity." 

Whether it is called "elevation of dis-
course," "intellectualization," or modera-
tion, students speak of an apathy and 
ambivalence on campus chat didn't always 
come through in the music. "Many of 
those who opposed the war doubtless did 
so from a tangle of idealism and self-inter-
est," says Randy Helm, class ofi970. "And 
I suspect chat chose of us who were most 
passionate and angry were chose who, in 
our hearts, wondered whether self-interest 
was the larger factor." Zanger says the cam-
pus was slow to respond co the exhortations 
ofYale's Students for a Democratic Society, 
the main anti-war organization. "In 1966 
nobody showed up co a rally. In 1967 you 
would get maybe five or ten people. In 
early '68 we had an anti-war rally on the 
Green and Arthur Miller spoke, that was 
two co three thousand people. That was a 
peak." 

Then, several events in the spring of 
1970 changed the campus atmosphere: the 
murder trial of Black Panther Bobby Seale 
in New Haven, Nixon's illegal invasion of 
Cambodia, and the shooting of 13 student 
protesters at Kent State University. Even 
marginally involved students were sudden-


--- Page 20 ---

ly radicalized. "I spent most of senior year 
discovering the joys of getting high, hang-
ing out at our unofficial senior society's 
beach house . . . in short, senior pleasures 
typical of a more insouciant age," said Reid 
Detchon, class of 1970. "Bobby Seale's trial 
came to New Haven, and I was on the 
Green that spring day-protesting a little, 
mostly participating in the Event-when 
the news came that Nixon had bombed 
Cambodia. This evil man had decided to 
make the war worse, not end it, and we 
howled in anger and fear and outrage about 
America becoming Amerika, losing our 
hope that this democracy would respond to 
us. The campus was shut down by that out-
rage, by our inability to focus on anything 
else." Those days of mass protest on the 
Green were the closest that Yale ever came 
to "blowing up," and like Yale presidents 
past, Brewster responded to the students' 
fiery spirit with special war measures-this 
time by canceling final exams and allowing 
seniors to graduate based on work done to 
date. 

THE OTHER FORCE IN YALE's VIETNAM 
experieqce was, of course, the chap-
lain, civil rights and peace activist Reverend 
William Sloane Coffin, Jr. On September 
23, 2001, he returned here to speak on a 
panel on peace at BatteU Chapel. "When I 
came back to Yale these past few days, I was 
flooded with remembrances," he said in 
response to a question. "It was the Gulf of 
Tonkin resolution all over again. We were 
the second university after the University of 
Michigan to have a sit-in in I964, and we 
need to have another one now," he told a 
cheering crowd. This comparison doesn't 
work at all for Talbott, who is editing a 
forthcoming anthology of Yale professors, 
Th~ Ag~ of T~r, to address the post-
September 11 situation. "I have the greatest 
respect for Reverend Coffin," he says, "but 
the analogy doesn't take you very far. The 
Gulf of Tonkin was basically a case of 
harassment on the high seas, and now 
7,000 people have been killed. It's not 
accurate history and not f.lir either." 

Coffin and Talbott, like generations of 
Yale men before them, are drawing on their 
experience here to respond to a new kind of 
conflict. As a conscientious student I 
would like to learn from their example, but 
the historical analogies do not come easily. 
Today, just as in the Civil War, we at Yale 
and in the nation have been caught 
unaware, faced with an unprecedented 
threat at home. Just as in the world wars, 
the conflict is global in scope. Just as in 
Vietnam, opposition to the government's 
policies, at least in form, is the norm with-
in which we act. Is there a special mandate 
for action now? 

At the Tercentennial celebration, the 
President of Harvard quoted Theodore 
Roosevelt's words, "Wherever I have been 
engaged in a great endeavor I have found a 
Yale man by my side." Professor Smith 
points out that he didn't finish the quota-
tion-the "great endeavor" Roosevelt was 
specifically referring to was the bloody bat-
tle of San Juan Hill in the even bloodier 
Spanish-American War. One of Roosevelt's 
comrades-in-arms, Augustus Canfield 
Ledyard, class of 1898, is honored by the 
flagpole on Beinecke Plaza. "So the flagpole 
of the university celebrates not a very good 
cause---colonial oppression," Smith says. If 
making our mark on history is the Yale stu-
dent's obsession, we would now do well to 
determine where the mark should strike. 

1111 
Anya /Vzmmnz, a smior in Davmport 
Co/kg~, is ~Jitor-in-chitf o[TNJ. 
THE NEW jOURNAL 


**Title: The Yale Legacy: Forty Years After Griswold v. Connecticut**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
EVERY DAY, Yale women walk over to University Health 
Services (UHs) on Hillhouse Avenue to receive some form 
of contraception-birth control pills, diaphragms, intrauterine 
devices. They are all available, and most never question their legal-
ity or women's right to have them. On their way, some of these 
women may even pass by 79 Trumbull Streeet. The building quali-
fies as a historic site, but there is no plaque commemorating what 
happened there forty years ago this November. If it weren't for 
the work of two Yale professors, one motivated woman, and mem-
bers from the Yale and New Haven c~mmunity inside this build-
ing, the women who walk to University Health Services each day 
might still be committing a crime. 


Reproductive rights in New Haven were revolutionized on 
November I, 1961, when 15 women became the inaugural patients 
of a Planned Parenthood clinic at 79 Trumbull. The clinic was an 
·open challenge to the Comstock laws, which made it illegal for a 
doctor in the United States to prescribe or give advice about birth 
control. In 1961, Connecticut was the only state that still clung to 
this 85-year-old law. Ten days and 75 patients later, police arrested 
the clinic's doctor, Yale obstetrics and gynecology chairman Dr. 
Charles Lee Buxton, and the clinic's director Estelle Griswold. 
Upon entering the New Haven Police Station, Buxton expressed 
regret that the clinic would have to close. "It's very disappointing 
not to be able to treat patients who need medical advice so badly," 
he said. "It's like not being able to use penicillin for anyone who 
needs it." 


Buxton and Griswold opened the clinic because the us 
Supreme Court could not rule on the constitutionality of the 
Comstock laws until someone had been prosecuted under their 
terms. Fowler Harper, the lawyer who took the case to the 
Supreme Court, said, "It would be a state and community service 
if a criminal action were brought" against the clinic. 


New Haven police alleged that both defendants "did cause or 
command a certain married woman to use a drug or medicinal 
article for the purpose of preventing conception." The pair spent 
the night in jail and was released the next day on $250 bail. 


Buxton and Griswold challenged the constitutionality of the 
Comstock laws, and pleaded not guilty to the charges against 
them. Griswold v. Conn~cticutwas on its way to the Supreme 
Court of the United States. 


While their case was pending, Buxton and Griswold kept the 
clinic open, using it as the departure point for a shuttle service 
taking women to clinics in New York and Rhode Island, where 
birth control had been legalized. Four years after their arrest, on 
June 7, 1965, the Supreme Court handed down a decision in the 
defendants' favor. The 7-2 decision reversed the Comstock laws, 
making Connecticut the last state to legalize the prescription, use, 
and distribution of information about birth control. 


A
t the time of Buxton and -Griswold's arrest, the center was 
booked through mid-December, women were flocking 
there from all over Connecticut. At Grace-New Haven Hospital 
(now Yale-New Haven}, restrictions prohibited Buxton from dis-
cussing birth control with his patients. So he sent them to 
Planned Parenthood, where six other Yale doctors had agreed to 
join him in providing what they considered the best care for their 
female patients. 


Four decades later, Yale has emerged as one of the country's 
most progressive universities in terms of reproductive health poli-
cy, offering birth control and abortions under the Yale Health 
Plan. This policy appears to be a natural progression from 
Griswold v. Con~cticut. When asked in what year the Yale Health 
Plan began to fund abortions, Dr. William Billings, the head of 
obstetrics and gynecology at University Health Services at its 
inception in 1971, said, "When they became legal, in 1973. If it 
was legal, we offered it. If you wanted to have your appendix out, 
you had your appendix out. If you wanted an abortion, you could 
get an abortion." 


This past January, Yale became the first school in the nation 
to announce that it would offer the new abortion drug, RU-486, as 
part of its standard health plan. The pill, also known as Mifeprex, 
induces miscarriage within several days when administered early in 
a pregnancy. After it received FDA approval in September 2000, 
many anticipated that "the abortion pill" would fundamentally 
change the way abortions are perceived. Pro-choice activists 
praised the long-overdue expanded freedom a woman now had to 
choose from a variety of treatments. 


With the availability of a non-inva-
sive abortion procedure, women 
gained increased privacy-and control 
over their bodies. Pro-lifers, though, 
criticized the new drug's likelihood of 
increasing the number of terminated 
pregnancies. They raised doubts about the 
drug's safety, n'?ting that first-time trials 
showed that som~ women suffered from 
extensive bleedint. 


Unlike Yale", the majority of college cam-
puses in the country have steered clear of the 
controversial drug. Most choose not to offer 
Mifeprex at their health centers, claiming they 
are ill-equipped to handle the potentially severe 
side effects of the drug, while some schools, such 
as H arvard, have agreed to reimburse students 
who receive the drug from an off-campus clinic. 


When Yale announced last year that RU-486 would 
be offered as part of its standard health plan, USA Today conduct-
ed a poll of 50 random schools across -the country, of which Yale 
was the sole university co offer the controversial drug. Today, calls 
to all the Ivy League health centers reveal that Yale remains the 
only one to provide its srudents and faculty with the option of 
R.U-486. 


Without any student lobbying, Yale decided to offer a drug 
whose political implications and reported adverse side effects have 
made national headlines since its first trial in 1991. Across the 
country, op-ed pages of srudent papers have displayed headlines 
urging administrations and student health plans to provide its stu-
dents with the widest range of reproductive health options. 


Meanwhile, on Yale's campus, it was only after the administration 
announced its new policy that the debate began. 


Emily Grant, chair of the Pro-Life League at Yale, published 
op-ed pieces in srudent newspapers criticizing the decision. RU-
486, she believes, "is not designed for college women. We don't 
have husbands, mothers, and other people who live with us to 
watch over us and make sure that we 
don't bleed to death." Currently the 
Pro-Life League is pushing for Yale 
to follow Harvard's lead, and pro-
vide students with moral objections 
to abortion with a refund of the 
fraction of their student health 
insurance that pays for abortions. 
At Harvard the refund is 6o 
cents. 


Director of University 
Health Services Paul Genecin 
understands the controversy 
over the drug, especially in a 
university setting. But such 
controversy, he believes, cannot 
dictate the university's decisions. 
"Intellectual freedom at a place like Yale gives all of 
us the right to our views, but not all these views can be put into 
policy, and someone has to make this decision about policy," he 
said. Yale's policy, he feels, exists to offer the most complete set of 
medical options to patients, despite political and social implica-
tions. 


But while Buxton and Griswold opened their clinic with the 
intention of testing the law, today Yale wants no part of a political 
debate. "The issue of abortion is highly politicized," said Genecin. 
"As a health care organization, we want co preserve an atmosphere 
for our patients that is suppoctive and medical, not political." The 
result of this attitude, however, has been a notable silence about 
the options available to women under the Yale Health Plan, espe-
cially for a move that put Yale at the forefront of a national con-
flict. 


Alice Wolfram, coordinator of the Reproductive Rights 
Action League at Yale, says that the administration's uneasiness 
about politicizing women's health options "might be a legitimate 
concern, but it's not a legitimate excuse." "The larger issue," 
Wolfram asserts, "is that abortion is a safe, legal, medical proce-
dure that needs to be available to Yale students. Making abortion 
available but not telling students it is 
available has the potential to undermine 
Yale's reproductive options." 


Just how much can a woman find 
out about her choices at UHs? A 
phone call to the OB-GYN depart-
ment to inquire about students' options 
reveals that, for political or organizational 
reasons, students are not the only ones in 
the dark. "Does the Yale Health Plan 
cover Ru-486?" a student wanted to 
know. The receptionist sighed, "I'm going 
to transfer you to member services." 


Member services responded to the same 
question with a simple, "I don't know. 
Can you call back?" Calling back resulted 
in another transfer-back to OB-GYN. 
"Does the health plan cover RU-486?" 
"I don't know. I mean, I don't know 
what that is," the woman on the other 
end responded, "What is it?" 


"My friend told me that it's an abor-
tion pill." 


A slight gasp from the other end. 
Then, "Oh, dear. 1 don't know." The 
voice, which a second ago was annoyed by 
the request for the mystery drug, now 
offered$ympathy and support. Still, her 
only advice was, "Call back and make an 
appointment when you find out what you 
want to do, OK?" 


A student, confused, possibly desper-
ate, hung up the phone unaware of what 
her options were--as a UHS patient and as 
a woman. 


"I understand [Yale's] caution," says 
Susan Yq!en, Vice President of Public 
Affairs and-Communication at Planned 
Parenthood of Connecticut, "but the trou-
ble with their caution is that students may 
not be getting the information that they 
need." Yale has set itself apart from 
schools across the country, but, as Susan 
Yolen says, "I don't think anyone likes 
being on a limb all by themselves." 


In a sense, however, Yale has been in 
a league all by itself for the 40 years since 
Griswold. In his day, Griswold praised 
Buxton for having "acted in the highest 
traditions of the medical profession" and 
deserving "the salute and everlasting grati-
tude of all men and women who value 
human freedom." On July 28, 1961, 
Buxton issued a statement concerning the 
intention to open their clinic in the belief 
that Connecticut women "deserve the type


**Title: The Yale Health Plan and Birth Control**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
of medical care legally permitted in all 
other states and in most foreign coun-
tries." Prior to 1965, 51 percent of families 
under the poverty line had no family plan-
ning. Thirty-one percent of children in 
New Haven were born to single women, 
and 15 percent of births were to mothers 
under the age of 18. 

Harper and Btdton's campaign was 
about more than making birth control 
available--it was about making birth con-
trol available to people of all classes, 
neighborhoods, and minority groups. 
According to Roraback, "if you knew the 
right person to get you to the right doctor 
and had the money, you could access birth 
control in Connecticut. Buxton was espe-
cially concerned that poor women would-
n't be able to get the services available to 
them." When Roraback, who still prac-
tices law in Hartford, was told that Yale 
offers RU-486 as part of its standard 
health plan, her response was exuberant. 
"Yale is so good," she said, "it's amazing." 
Still, some may ask whether Yale is 
doing all it can to serve the female stu-
dents, faculty~ staff, and families who use 
UHs. Is it possibl~ for. Yale to find a bal-
ance between patients' right to know 
about all their options and patients' right 
to get medical service in a non-politicized 
environment? Yale only needs to look to 
the example set by the Griswold-eta doc-
tors to see that political controversy need 
not inhibit the practice of medicine. Dr. 
Vuginia Stuermer, who worked at the 
Planned Parenthood clinic, recollected, 
"On the day Dr. Buxton and Mrs. 
Griswold were arrested I was running the 
clinic. And I came in the door and they 
said to me 'Dr. Stuermer, the cops are 
here. What should we do? And I said, 'We 
should see the patients."' 
Emily Anth~. a foshman in 
Davmport Co/kg~. and &nita Singh, 
a sophomo" in Bmnford Co/kg~. a" 
on thntajfo[TNJ. 


**Title:  A Political Campaign in Fair Haven**
**Author: Sushma Gandhi**
**Page number(s): 27**

overns? 

~ 

cian, but he remained mentally ill and 
homeless. I started to win more of my 
weekly chess games at Harmony Place, but 
that was because my opponents were usual-
ly high on crack. 

Last summer, I did not know what to 
do. I didn't want to move again, so I ended 
up in New Haven, figuring I could work 
for one of its hundreds of do-gooder orga-
nizations. But when June came, I was still 
floating and unsatisfied., 

Then, I had a number of long conver-
sations with a friend who was working on 
the "DeStefano for Mayor" campaign, and 
I watched the ftcst debate between mayoral 
ical leadership in Fair Haven because they 
had been consistently frustrated at the apa-
thy and incompetence of the existing lead-
ers. In Fair Haven, which comprises three 
of New Haven's 30 political wards (wards 
14> 15, and 16) and q,ooo of its 120,000 res-
idents, democracy seemed to be failing. 
The three Fair Haven aldermen had been 
in power for a decade, and we believed they 
had done harm. Their unchallenged leader-
ship was perpetuated by a lack of effort to 
register new voters in the part of the city 
that consistently attracts the largest num-
ber of new residents. They supported the 
reopening of an antiquated power plant in 
Daisy Montafiez is out on the streets of Fair 
Haven every day running a neighborhood 
trash collection operation to keep Fair 
Haven clean. All kinds of other leaders, 
activists, and community members came 
forward during the Fair Haven campaign, 
united in their conviction that Fair Haven's 
people deserved better. The three aldermen 
remain the same, but the Fair Haven 
Democratic Party is radically different. 

There were no limits last summer. 
Anyone could ask for anything, especially 
when they asked together. 

The issue-based nature of the alder-
manic campaigns effected change on at 
It's a P91i-tical campaign, not a non-profit. The goal is.to win. 
candidates DeStefano and State Senator 
Martin Looney. I began working on the 
campaign afrer a long conversation with 
Campaign Manager Julio Gonzalez, who 
reminded me that the "DeStefano for 
Mayor" campaign was not a tutoring pro-
gram or a community development corpo-
ration. "It's a political campaign, and the 
goal is to win," he told me. "We want to 
win for good reasons. But we are not a non-
profit. Are you sure this is what you want 
to do?" 

I was not sure. I spent hours that night 
thinking a.bout whether power really cor-
rupts, and anticipating all the dirty, dis-
tasteful things I would see happen through-
out the summer. I never guessed that I 
would be spending my Thursday nights in 
July 
in 
the 
yellow-walled 
People's 
laundromat. 

At first, I couldn't conceive of any-
thing revolutionary about the reelection of 
a four-term mayor. But then I realized one 
of the major goals of the campaign was to 
change the Democratic Party in New 
Haven by reaching out to everyone. Several 
of the Mayor's supporters were determined 
to find and support new Democratic polit-
0croBER 19, 2001 
their neighborhood, English Station, even 
though New Haven already has the highest 
rate of childhood asthma in the state of 
Connecticut. Prostitution and drug-deal-
ing remain prevalent in many sections of 
Fair Haven. Yet all three of its representa-
tives have voted against allocating resources 
to Fair Haven when they cannot directly 
contrOl them. 

There had not been a serious challenge 
to the aldermanic seats in Fair Haven for . 
longer than most residents could remem-
ber. The "DeStefano for Mayor" campaign 
ran candidates against the three incum-
bents. All three lost, but our campaign reg-
istered and pulled 300 new Democratic 
voters in Fair Haven, uniting passionate 
people from different pans of Fair Haven 
as well as creating votes for DeStefano. For 
the first time in years, people were talkin.g 
about issues, about change, about the 
future. The voting rolls were growing. A 
serious, impassioned debate developed. 
More people in Fair Haven voted than in 
any of the past four mayoral primaries. 

Kevin Walton ran for alderman of 
Ward 14· His eyes light up when he talks 
about the basketball team he coaches. 
least one of the issues, even though our 
candidates did not win. When I wrote an 
"Energy Plan" for New Haven for the cam-
paign this summer, one of my suggestions 
was that the city should acquire English 
Station, to make sure that it can never 
reopen in a way that is destructive to the 
people near it. I just found out that the city 
is actually working to do this. The alder-
men retracted their unanimous support of 
the reopening of the English Station power 
plant and even apologized for ever support-
ing it. This means that the people of Fair 
Haven can count on at least one line of 
defense against environmental racism. 

This summer I never wanted to leave 
work. Sometimes I didn't. I spent more 
than a few nights under my desk at the 
office. For the first time, I felt like I was 
doing more than fostering dependency. I 
was a part of the fluid organism that is 
democracy-something that can be as rad-
ical, daring, and open as people are willing 
to make it. 

Sushma Gandhi, a junior in Saybrook 
Co liege, is on the staff of TNJ. 



**America's Weakness: A Review of *While America Sleeps***
**Author: Clint Carroll**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
In the days after September 11, Donald Kagan, a Yale professor of history and classics, threw himself into the campus debate. In a guest column in the Yale Daily News on September 18, Kagan called for vigilance, criticizing the likes of professor Paul Kennedy and globalization guru Strobe Talbott for going soft on terrorism and "blaming the victim." He wrote, "Such voices as those of Kennedy and Talbott are always available in countries such as ours. Their grievances about various aspects of our own country lead them to seek the causes of any troubles in us and to urge understanding of our enemies." Kagan likened Kennedy and Talbott to the intellectuals who advocated appeasement as Hitler rose to power.

In *While America Sleeps: Self-Delusion, Military Weakness, and the Threat to Peace Today* (2000), a book Kagan co-wrote with his son Frederick, a professor at West Point, the authors criticize US military policy over the last decade, and match Kagan's attacks on Kennedy and Talbott in forwardness and theme. The Kagans viciously pick apart US military policy, arguing that the world did not become safe with the fall of the Soviet Union and that the United States is ultimately responsible for this lapse in security. The book was at once frightening and affirming for me, a pacifist Iowan who has never expressed interest in foreign policy. It immersed me in the harsh language of Cold War realism for the first time. And though it seemed strange at the time, the language thrilled me. Instead of shaking my head while reading it, I found myself asking, "Why am I suddenly obsessed with war?"

"In the war of 2020, certainly, of 2010, possibly, perhaps even earlier, America will not be immune to direct attack anymore." This one sentence confers a new relevance on the book today. It is sweeping, bold, abrasive, and tragically prescient. But is it adequately explained by the writers' analysis?

Much of the book draws on official documents and statements of policy-makers. Colin Powell ominously notes, "there will be a next time; there always is." Clinton's Secretary of State William Perry states in words which now sound naive, "It's an entirely implausible scenario that we'd fight two wars at once." And Senator Les Aspin proposes a sweeping threat-based military policy that stands in stark contrast to the more absolute policy the Kagans favor. The authors shape the actors involved like literary characters. Aspin is impatient and misdirected. Dick Cheney is heroic and sagacious. In fact, each politician is disturbingly two-dimensional. The writers' political agenda is supported just enough by the ideas and writings of others to make the book palatable.


But the intentions of its authors are clear. America is falling down, the world is getting nasty, and something has to be done. The Kagans argue that the United States is in a position to suffer the same fate as Britain did in the 1930s: We are tangled in a web of "pseudoengagements" similar to those that drew England into World War II. Pseudoengagements, as the authors define them, are limited in scope and direction. They have the look of full-scale operations, minus the clear conclusion. For example, Slobodan Milosevic remained in power for several years after our intervention in the Balkans. An effective operation would have deposed him immediately; our "pseudoengagement" left him in control.

The lesson of the book is simple: Obliterating an opponent is a controversial plan of action, but not finishing the job is much worse.

Why, according to the Kagans, has our policy grown weak? "The 'Weimar syndrome' continues to paralyze American leaders." The United States refuses to touch anything that might escalate or de-escalate without warning, and is afraid of any engagement that might claim American lives. Volatility is unattractive to policy-makers, especially after the turbulence of the 60s and 70s. The Kagans realize this and warn, "There is no escape from the responsibility of judgment and no reason to believe that inaction is safer than action."


America's definition of war changed again after the Iraqi conflict, they say. "It is not enough to win; the victory must come at almost no cost ... engagement must not be prolonged, must entail no casualties, and must, almost always, avoid the use of ground forces." The Gulf War created a new model. Shaky engagements are now acceptable, so long as Americans are not hurt.


The authors argue that the United States has inexcusably failed to deter aggression worldwide. Since 1991 "declarations of false victories" have inflated American confidence, while the rest of the world shifted and sagged and schemed against us. Our Somalian campaign failed, our Haiti campaign was ineffective, Bosnia still requires constant intervention, Iraq is rebuilding its forces, and North Korea is still harboring weapons of mass destruction.

Forget specific examples for a moment. The authors' most disturbing conclusion is general: "Pseudoengagement has had the same effect in America as it had in England—it has gravely complicated the efforts of those who favor real engagement to make their case." Kagan voiced this concern even more directly in his September 18 editorial. Intellectuals, he says, are always clamoring for peace, understanding, and rationality. But what happens when the irrational becomes reality? What happens when buildings fall down? What if the minority, that militant, unpopular minority, is absolutely correct? And what if no one listens?


Even if America has gone about things the wrong way, blatant aggression seems dangerous and foolish to many. The authors recognize this sentiment, knowing full well that almost everyone in his or her right mind rejects aggression in the abstract. They also seem to realize that they are perceived as both radical conservatives and self-aggrandizing intellectuals. The cleverness of *While America Sleeps* lies in the way they compensate for this perception by grounding their discussion in numbers and reasonable-sounding observations: "It is not clear that the high-technology weapons our forces now use can be mass-produced quickly." "By 1998 ... the US Army and US Marine Corps active force structure had been reduced to only 661,000 ..." "The United States does not fight wars within margins so tight." "The Gulf coalition has shattered; NATO and the United States risk drifting apart. Challengers of the status quo proliferate, along with weapons of mass destruction and the means to deliver them."


October 19, 2001
I am living in an uncertain world. And as I cast about for a theory that will contextualize the government's actions in Afghanistan, I can't help but entertain what the Kagans say:

We have shown how military weakness, combined with the desire to ignore unpleasant international realities, has led America to abandon control of the international scene, shirk its responsibilities, and place global stability and its own security in jeopardy ... has America allowed its military might to run down so far that the cost of restoring it might drive future administrations faced with real warning signs to ignore the dangers or seek unrealistic solutions? The answer, again, we fear, is yes.

I'm a quiet guy from the Midwest, who has never shot a gun. Yet I sit in my room, waiting for another tragedy, praying that Kagan is wrong, that any future conflict will be simple. If he is right, I hope I am not the only one who has tried to listen...

Clint Carroll, a sophomore in Branford College, is a circulation and subscriptions manager for TNJ.


**Sikorsky and the War on Drugs**
**Author: Judith Miller**
**Page number(s): 30**

Black Hawk Helicopter, Sikorsky Aircraft Corporation, Stratford, CT
In 1919, Igor Sikorsky fled the Russian Revolution for New York. Four years later, he founded the Sikorsky Aero Engineering Corporation and went on to design and build the world's first helicopter. He designed them to be maneuverable for improved search and rescue. "If a man is in need of rescue, an airplane can come in and throw flowers on him, and that's just about all." Today, Sikorsky is best known for combat aircraft, but its website still touts stories


In the current conflict, Black Hawks play a central role in US military strategy. Afghanistan's mountainous terrain makes helicopters the combat vehicle of choice. America has already moved Black Hawk helicopters into neighboring Uzbekistan, and the aircraft carrier USS Kitty Hawk is now stationed in nearby waters to be used as a "my pad" for helicopter landings and special operations. While United Technologies Co. (UTC), Sikorsky's parent company, saw its stock plummet after September 11, chairman George David believes that defense spending will pull them through once again.


Without extensive US training, Colombia seems unable to properly manage the new helicopters it has received as part of the War on Drugs. Last February, former drug czar Barry McCaffrey said, "You can't just send machinery ... You've got to train the crews ... (Several years ago) I flew in there and looked at (the Colombians) painting over the near $100,000-plus-radar-reflective paint job so they could get 'Ejercito de Colombia' on the tailbone."


In the 1980s, Connecticut Senator Christopher Dodd was known for his vocal opposition to President Reagan's interventionist policies in Central America, especially with regard to Nicaragua. However, he voted in favor of Plan Colombia last year. UTC has donated at least $38,000 to Senator Dodd and $33,500 to Senator Joseph Lieberman in the last six years.


Meanwhile, after signing a $217 million multi-year defense contract last May, Sikorsky has hired new workers in Connecticut. UTC is the state's largest employer; Sikorsky alone is the tenth largest.


Last year, Congress gave $297 million to Colombia for new military expenditures in the War on Drugs. This will include the purchase of at least 18 new Sikorsky Black Hawks. Not mentioned on the Sikorsky website is the use of its helicopters in Colombia's 40-year-old civil war. Assistant Secretary of State for International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs Rand Beers has said, "The governments of Colombia and the United States don't discriminate between who is the drug trafficker and the ..."


Next March, Sony Pictures will release *Black Hawk Down*, a patriotic action flick about a crashed helicopter in Somalia and the values Americans hold most dear. In *Deeds*, another upcoming film, Sikorsky's S-92 is the stylish ride of a big-time businessman. According to the Sikorsky website, "There is an old Hollywood adage that actors should not share a stage with animals and children, as they are certain to steal the scene. Add to that a Sikorsky helicopter."

judith Miller, a junior in Berkeley College, is on the staff of TNJ.


No text was provided for pages 31 and 32.  Therefore, no articles or advertisements can be transcribed.
