Publication date: December 2007
Volume: 40
Issue number: 3


**MASTHEAD:**
- Publisher: Lauren Hatfison
- Acting Publisher: Nick Handler
- Editor-in-Chief: Jonny Dach
- Managing Editors: Nicole Allan, Nick Handler
- Designer: Rachel Engler
- Senior Editors: Emify Koh, Sophia Lear
- Production Manager: Jordan Jacks
- Associate Editors: Tess Dearing, Aditi Ramakrishnan, Mitchell Reich
- On-line Editors: Ben Tasman, Ali Seitz
- Photo Editor: Ben Sachs
- Copy Editor: Laura Bennett
- Research Director: Laura Zax
- Staff: Amy Fish, Matt Hayden, Matthew Lee, Brooks Swett
- Members and Directors: Joshua Civin, Peter B. Cooper, Tom Griggs, Roger Cohn, Brooks Kelley, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Kathrin Lassila, Jennifer Pitts, Henry Schwab, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, David Slifka, Fred Strebeigh, Thomas Strong, John Swansburg
- Advisors: Richard Bradley, Jay Carney, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Michael Addison, Austin Family Fund, Steve Ballou, J. Neela Banerjee, Margaret Bauer, Emily Bazelon, Anson M. Beard, Jr., Blaire Bennett, Richard Bradley, Martha Brant, Susan Braudy, Daniel Brook, Callahan, Jay Carney, Daphne Chu, Josh Civin, Jonathan M. Clark, Constance Clement, Andy Court, Masi Denison, Albert J. Fox, Mrs. Howard Fox, David Freeman, Geoffrey Fried, Sherwin Goldman, David Greenberg, Stephen Hellman, Laura Heymann, Gerald Hull, Walter Jacob, Jane Kamensky, Tina Kelley, Roger Kirwood, Lewis E. Lehrman, Jim Lowe, E. Nobles Lowe, Daniel Murphy, Martha E. Neil, Peter Neil, Howard H. Newman, Sean O'Brien, Laura Pappano, Julie Peters, Lewis and Joan Platt, Josh Plaut, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, Fairfax C. Randal, Robert Randolph, Stuart Rohrer, Arleen and Arthur Sager, Richard Shields, W. Hampton Sides, Lisa Silverman, Scott Simpson, Adina Propasco and David Sulsman, Thomas Strong, Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Wilson, Daniel Yergin and Angela Stent Yergin



**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**

6 CASH FOR CHANGE - Alexis Fitts
24 Music Moguls - Mitchell Reich
32 TRUTH AND RECONCILIATION - Pria Anand
36 HOSPITAL TRIP - Nick Handler
12 LIFTING THE VEIL - Aditi Ramakrishnan
20 THE SECRET GARDEN - Mai Wang
34 KIDS IN THE HALL - Kate Selker
4 Points of Departure
10 The Profile - Sarah Nutman
40 The Critical Angle - Ben Tasman
42 The Personal Essay - Jessica Svendsen
46 Endnote - Matthew Lee


**Title: CASH FOR CHANGE**
**Author: Alexis Fitts**
**Page number(s): 16**


Student microcreditors venture into town.



**Title: Music Moguls**
**Author: Mitchell Reich**
**Page number(s): 24**


School of Music out of tune with undergraduates.



**Title: TRUTH AND RECONCILIATION**
**Author: Pria Anand**
**Page number(s): 32**


The Tettru Project



**Title: HOSPITAL TRIP**
**Author: Nick Handler**
**Page number(s): 36**


Ketamine experiments use human subjects.



**Title: LIFTING THE VEIL**
**Author: Aditi Ramakrishnan**
**Page number(s): 12**


Profiles in courage.



**Title: THE SECRET GARDEN**
**Author: Mai Wang**
**Page number(s): 20**


Growing familiar with Yale's botanic collection.



**Title: KIDS IN THE HALL**
**Author: Kate Selker**
**Page number(s): 34**


Yale workers struggle with child care.




**House Jazz**
**Author: Laura Bennett**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
ouse azz 
• 
ON ONE WAJ.I . OF CRAIG O'CONNEJJ.'S 
first grade classroom is a huge collage 
in 
garish 
primary 
colors: 
floating 
saxophones played by disembodied paper 
heads, magazine letters reading "JAZZ" 
and "BIRD LIVES," music notes cut 
from construction paper, neon buildings 
plastered on a sharp blue sky. 
Despite 
the frenetic · jumble of color and angles, 
there's an odd harmony to the spastic, 
geometric parts: the buildings tilt toward · 
each other conspiratorially and the notes 
dance in artful clusters. O'Connell stands 
in front of it all, gesturing madly. "ZA-
baza, BOO-zaba, ZEE-zah RO-ni," he 
intones, and a gleeful chorus of six-year-
old voices repeats after him. 

For the past five years, O'Connell has 
been teaching jazz to first graders at St. 
Thomas's Day School on Whitney Avenue. 
It's more than background music; he's 
wrapped his whole curriculum around 
the genre. Geography lessons stem from 
songs that have a flavor 
a pulsing Latin 
beat, a Middle Eastern melody. "I take out 
' 
the map and start talking about it," says 
O'Connell. He plays be-bop so that his 
students learn to distinguish syllables and 
turn sounds into nonsense words. At this 
age, he explains, kids are learning to read, 
and jazz is a great way to teach phonemic 
awareness. "One of the most important 
core ingredients of being a reader is being 
able to hear and discriminate sound," says 
O'Connell. ''Wordplay is an . essential 
ingredient." So when Ella Fitzgerald scats 
in "How High the Moon," the students 
dissect the sounds and write them out on 
a dry erase board. Oo-papa da. Yabba-
4 
bee. Bada-pop. 

O'Connell is a slight figure with a 
thatch of gray curls and an easy, bluesy 
manner. 
Outside of . class, he wears 
a frayed velour zip-up, a t-shirt with 
metallic lettering, and jeans. He sports 
wire-rimmed spectacles and an ample 
moustache. His gravelly voice is slow and 
rhythmic. O'Connell is .on a first-name 
basis with all the jazz greats: Miles, Ella, 
Dizzy. When he speaks about jazz, he 
leans forward across the table and drags 
. 
' . 
out his words: · "Charlie Parker was. a. 
seminal. force."· He enunciates carefully. 
"And 
little 
kids 
six-year-olds 
are 
digging him. They walk into a store when 
music is playing and say 'That's Miles 
Davis, that's John Coltrane.' They're 
blowing the parents away." 

O'Connell has been teaching for 36 
years, but he's not entirely sure how he 
ended up in the field. In college, he was 
a sociology major and philosophy minor. 
'~t the time I had to make a decision. The 
Vietnam war 'was raging, for one thing, and 
that was not my first choice," he explains. 
''I had to make a living, I like kids. It all 
added up." For a while, O'Connell played 
jazz in the classroom, but that was about . 
it. "Kinda like the Miles Davis tunes you 
. might hear on the Weather Channel," he 
says with a lopsided grin. 

, His idea began to germinate when 
his students were gathered on the floor 
during their daily afternoon meeting. A girl 
raised her hand and said, "I have a dog." 
O'Connell was initially uninterested, all 
too aware of the dangers of meandering 
six-year olds and their attention spans. 
"I don'.t particularly want to hear dog 
stories at the end of the day because 
everyone has a dog and everyone wants 
to tell their stories," he explains. But the 
little gid continued, "His name is Miles." 
O'Connell's interest was piqued. When 
the girl informed him that the dog also 
had a middle name 
Davis 
O'Connell 
decided to test the waters. "Do you see 
that poster right behind me?" he told the 
students. "That's a man whose name is 
Miles Davis. Did you ever hear of him?" 
For the most part, they hadn't. But when 
O'Connell put on a Charlie Parker tune 
called "Now is the Time," the kids jumped 
up and started dancing. 

So he sat down, wrote a curriculum 
• • 
comprised of ten lesson plans, and sent 
it off to the National Music Foundation. 
"I figured that when I submitted this/' 
he says, "that they would think I was 
either out of my mind, or that what I was 
doing was actually pretty profound." He 
won first place in the American Music 
Education Initiative, and was awarded 
a thousand dollar grant to jumpstart 
his jazz program. Now, the impact of 
the project has rippled throughout the 
school. There's a jazz club for parents, 
and O'Connell recently took 7 5 parents 
and kids on a field trip to a club called 
"The Jazz Standard" in New York City. 

These first graders 
some of whom are 
still on the cusp of literacy 
are learning 
how to identify musicians and styles of 
music, and loving it. "The kids are asking 
for Dizzy Gillespie CDs in their Christmas 
stockings," O'Connell says proudly. 

Today, his lesson is based on a book 
called "The Jazz Fly," which comes with 
a supplementary CD. The students are 
sitting on the floor, cross-legged and 
bouncing. A boy with a cowlick plays the 
air sa~ophone. Theodore, . a wide-eyed 
seven-year old with a shock of unruly 
hair, declares that he loves jazz "because 
you get to move to it a little bit." Connor's 
favorite 
musician is John Coltrane, 
although "that's a hard question." Priscilla 
likes music and all things art-related. "I like 
to make creations," she says solemnly. 

O'Connell gives . all the students 
whiteboards and tells them, '~fter you 
write out what you hear, let's change every 
b to a p and see what happens!" This was 
a crucial mistake. "ZA-baza, BOO-zaba" 
becomes "ZA -paz a, POO-zapa," and the 
word "POO" is too much for the kids to 
handle. The room dissolves into giggles. 
But O'Connell continues to conduct the 
chant with magisterial ease, mouthing 
the syllables and nodding his head to the 
rhythm of the song. 

All around him, the walls are lined 
with posters: Sonny Rollins is too cool in 
an icy shade of blue, with the collar of his 
white shirt flopped lackadaisically to the 
side. Theolonius Monk, photographed in 
milky yellow tones, stares upwards. He. has 
a goatee, dark glasses, and a tipped-back 
hat. Dizzy. Gillespie wears a beret and 
wide-rimmed glasses. His eyelids are low 
and sluggish and his mouth is curled as 
'IHE NEW JOURNAL 


**Balance**
**Author: Amy Fish**
**Page number(s): 5**

.,...--Laura Bennett 
' s 
BOOTYLICIOUS BURN STARTS IN HALF AN 
hour, and the studio looks ready to go. 
Barely-clothed, shining bodies parade 
across stacks of fitness magazines. A 
rainbow of rubber balls and handweights 
brightens one corner of the room. The 
lights cut through the strip mall parking 
lot, ca11ing through the dark · October 
night: New Haven women, it's time to 
work those glutes. But the door is locked. 
"Back in 10 minutes," says the sign. 

Inside, Mubarakah Ibrahim, Certified 
Personal Trainer, is praying. 

Ibrahim is the founder of Balance 
Fitness, a women's fitness studio on 
Whalley Avenue. She's also an orthodox 
Sunni Muslim. Without an inch of 
muscled skin exposed, Ibrahim is not 
who you'd expect to find here, at a studio 
celebrated by locals as a center of female 
empowerment. She covers all but her face 
and hands around non-related males. Her 
headscarf, or hijab ( literally "to cover" in 
Arabic) represents modesty and morality. 

Ibrahim may be modest, but she's not 
meek. The hijab, she says, is "the epitome 
of empowerment... it forces people to 
look at you for who you are." She flashes 
a big, white-toothed smile. "I tend to have 
to prove myself a lot more often than 
other people do,_but I really don't have a 
problem with that." 

She's not camera-shy, either. Her 
grinning face graces newspapers, TV 
December 2007 
stations, and blogs across · the country. 
"The press loves me," she boasts. Half 
Cherokee and half African-American, 
she presents herself as the quintessential 
American. Ibrahim designs her own 
workout outfits with an eye for fashion.-
her trademark is · a long-sleeved ·pink 
camouflage 
shirt~ pink headscarf, and 
pink-and-white Nikes 
and plans to 
launch her own clothing line next spring. 

This year, she toured New England to 
promote her book, Fat Loss 10: The 10 
Commandments rif Fat Loss. Despite all this 
publicity, one bit of press tops all others. 

For Ibrahim, life is divided into before 
and after "the show." Oprah's show. 
"The show'' made Ibrahim America's 
champion of fitness for Muslim women. 
"Muslim women 
don't 
have 
bikini 
season," Ibrahim says. ''You can literally 
go 24 hours without thinking about the 
rolls on your stomach. It isn't until you 
get in the shower that you say, 'Oh look, 
I have a roll!"' Unbothered by their flab 
and uncomfortable in mixed-gender 
gyms, Muslim women, Ibrahim says, 
tend to steer clear of fitness regimes. 

But according to Ibrahim, they are taking 
a growing interest in physical fitness. 
Through her non-profit, Fit Muslimah, 
Ibrahim organized a Muslim women's 
fitness conference in July that drew 
almost three hundred women and girls to 
New Haven. Ibrahim's name has traveled 
as far as Turkey, where a fitness clothing 
company sent her a Muslim running outfit. 
"I'm like the Muslim Denise Austin!" she 
laughs, referring to the blonde, often 
scantily-dad fitness video star. 

At the same time, Ibrahim has 
no qualms about helping non-Muslim 
women look good in their bikinis. ''I try 
not to judge why people want to be in 
good shape.," she says. ''I justgive you the 
fitness. What you do with it is up to you." 

The women who show up for Fat Loss 101 
and Bootylicious Burn range from middle-
aged bottle blondes to Hasidic Jews. ''It's 
all shapes, sizes, cultures, ethnicities," 
woman says. ''It's an environment that 
crosses all those barriers." While there 
is no dress code at the studio, Balance 
devotees have adopted their own veil of 
sorts: the white curtains that sometimes 
cover the all-glass storefront. Orig1na11y 
used only for Muslim clients, who 
uncover inside the studio, the curtains are 
increasingly popular with non-Mus1irns. 
"I'm finding that more and more women 
actually want me to put the curtains up. 
They say, 'I don't want anybody to see me 
work out!"' According to one, they are 
happy to escape the "meat market" of co-
ed gyms. "There's no pick up-factor," says 
a tall woman layered with silver jewelry. 

But even if you can run from men, 
you can't escape the eyes of Ibrahim-
especially when you're 
showing up 
for Bootylicious Burn. As the hour 
approaches, Ibrahim unlocks the door, 
draws the curtains, · and changes into 
slightly shorter sleeves. She winds the ends 
of her lavender scarf around her head 
and tucks them in, making a turban; her 
fingers move with the confident grace of 
habit. A woman in hfjab walks in, heads to 
the bathroom to change, and reemerges, 
bare-headed, in a Fit Muslimah t-shirt. 
"That's my signature statement." Ibrahim 
points to the shirt. "Fitness is not a look. 
It's a state of being. Looking good is just 
a side effect." In the middle of the shirt, 
a cartoon woman in a headscarf lifts a 
weight, demonstrating Commandment X 
of Fat Loss 10: "Thou shall lift steel." 

On the aerobics floor, a full wall 
of mirrors confronts each client with 
her own image and lets Ibrahim keep 
an eye out for slackers. Her soft, girlish 
voice occasionally sharpens to a trainer's 
bark, rising above the beat of techno-mix 
Beyonce, pushing the panting women to 
tighten their abs and deepen their squats. 
"Oh, I'm feeling the burn," Ibrahim 
calls out. "It's the Bootylicious Burn!" 


**The Speechwriter's Voice**
**Author: Alena Gribskov**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

eec 
WHEN CHRIS MICHEL BEGAN WORKING 
at the White House, he spent a lot of 
time listening to President Bush talk. 
He learned the cadence and rhythm of 
his words, the way he chose his phrases, 
the natural structure and logical patterns 
of the President's speech. Michel was 
studying not only what the President said 
5 

but also, even more importantly, how 
he said it. Michel listened to him give 
speeches, interviews, informal talks, and 
any other utterances he could find. 

It was essential preparation. After 
graduating from Yale in 2003 as a history 
major, Michel has spent most of his time 
as a speechwrite.r for the president. He 
has drafted addresses for Bush on topics 
.ranging from Cabinet nominees to the 
Iraq War. The speeches are unified less 
by their content than by their voice-
President Bush's voice, one that Michel 
painstakingly learned and internalized. 

Like 
all 
speechw.rite.rs, 
Michel 
.recognized the need to ~aptu.re someone 
else's style and write the speech his boss, 
o.r the "principal," would have written 
if he had the time. Keith U.rbahn, an 
Secretary of State John Negroponte. 

Despite the power they wield, many 
speechwrite.rs are young. Michel, U.rbahn, 
and Jordan entered the field shortly after 
graduation. In many ways, their youth 
is to their benefit. Speechwriting "is 
something for the young to do," says 
Jordan, because it is in youth that people 
are "able to absorb someone's voice and 
write in a compelling manner for them." 

Perhaps young writers still crafting their 
own identities find it easier to adopt the 
identities of others. 

Yet there is another, more practical 
.reason for . the preponderance of youth 
in speechwriting. In Washington, D.C., 
careers wax and wane with the currents 
of electoral politics, and the young 
travel 
lightly. 
U.rbahn has 
observed 
eloquent speaker himself, describes the 
that there always seem to be new jobs 
process as "synergy." In his experience as 
in speechwriting _ and communications. 
a speechwriter for. the former Secretary 
"People in D.C. who work in those 
of Defense Donald Rumsfeld, he noticed 
jobs tend to be young 
tend to be very 
that the best writers disappear behind their 
young 
because there are so many of 
employers. "The ultimate compliment," 
those jobs," he says. 

This same phenomenon means that 
most young speechwrite.rs do not pursue 
it as a lifelong career. As Jordan explains, 
this is just "the nature of political jobs.-
they have a certain shelf life." Once Rice 
.leaves the Department of State, Jordan's 
job is over. She has already begun to think 
ahead, and her future prospects lie outside 
speech writing, perhaps in journalism. 

Michel, too, has begun to contemplate 
the future. Though he .recognizes many 
writers choose to leave because 
"the job is taXing and indeed often leads 
to burnout," his .reasons for leaving are 
different. The hard-earned familiarity 
he gained with Bush left such a strong 
impression that he is not interested in 
writing for anyone else. ''When you spend 
four years writing for one person, as I 
have for President Bush, you form a pretty 
intense bond with the person." There is 
something defiantly loyal in Michel's plans 
to resign from the field. "I'm not sure I'd 
be able to pick up someone else's voice," 
he continues. "And, even if I could, I'm 
not sure I'd want to." 

Though modern politics is propelled 
by clearly defined egos, these egos do not · . belong to speechwriters. The profession 
requires not only that the speechwrite.r 
assume the voice of another, 'but also that 
he relinquish his ownership of the words. 
"This is a · profession that demands its . members to totally .renounce their pride 
of authorship," Michel says. Though 
involved in the creative process of · speech composition, the speechwrite.r is a mere 
conduit for the ideas, and even speech 
patterns, of his employer. "There are a lot 
of great writers who wouldn't be able to 
deal with this forced anonymity," Michel 
adds. "I think that's why speechwrite.rs are 
something of a unique breed.'' 

At the same time, speechwrite.rs wield 
substantial power. Though speeches are 
edited by colleagues, policy-makers, and the 
principals themselves, the .responsibility 
for drafting them is firmly in the hands of 
the speechwrite.r. As Urbahn says, 'cyou 
can't have a policy without being able to 
communicate it. You can't have rhetoric 
without ideas." Speechwriters have not 
only a stake, but also a voice in this legacy. 
They are "part of ·the historic tradition 
of American rhetoric," says Elise Jordan 
'04, who writes speeches for Secretary 
of State Condoleeza Rice and Deputy 
6 


**The Freshman File**
**Page number(s): 6**

ros 
MOST YALE STUDENTS KNOW THAT "THE 
file" exists. They imagine a modest rna- · 
nila folder, stuffed with official academic 
documents, nestled safely in their col-
lege dean's filing cabinet. Few students, 
however, know that tucked among their 
neatly-typed admissions application, crisp 
transcripts, and professor recommenda-
tions lies a hand-written paragraph filled 
with reflections on their friends, mental 
health, and life prospects 
up through 
the end of freshman year, anyway. It is 
private, unheralded, and rarely discov-
ered. It is the last concrete legacy of their 
freshman counselor. 

Max Scholz, a J.E. senior, stumbled 
upon his evaluation while working in the 
Yale College Dean's office. Scholz, who 
maintained a prickly relationship with his 
freshman counselor, was written up as a 
"drunkard" who failed to concentrate on 
his studies and broke the Fro-Co suite's 
Christmas tree. Scholz resents the fact 
that his freshman mistakes continue to 
haunt his file, and he questions whether 
it should be the prerogative of freshman 
counselors to 
evaluate 
their 
fellow 
students. 

Ya1ina Disla, a .former Davenport 
Ethnic 
Counselor, 
has 
a 
different 
perspective_ The freshman evaluation, 
she claims, doesn't disclose "top secret 
info" or "juicy gossip." "Confidential 
information is usually not written," she 
says, explaining that the report is not 
. . 
meant to read like a tabloid but rather is 
"simply to give a .recap or background of 
the student something that might have 
changed from their college application." 



**Freshman Reports: Mini-Biographies or Assessments?**
**Author: Jacqueline Jove**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Ethan Heard, a Calhoun freshman counselor from 2006 to 2007, considers the reports to be "mini-biographies" rather than assessments of a student's undergraduate exploits. 
George Levesque, Dean of Freshman Affairs, echoes Disla and Heard, adding that the reports encapsulate• a student's academic interests, extracurricular involvement, major challenges, and key successes. During his term as dean of Berkeley College, Levesque found the reports "helpful but not earth shattering" and "almost never contained anything I didn't already kflow." J.E. Dean Kyle Farley agrees that the reports were not especially insightful, even during his first year at the college. The reports describe a freshman's transition period, and, as Farley points out, recurring accounts of stress overload or flirtations with alcohol could be "true of any Yale freshman." 
Though freshman reports can't measure up to a cultivated relationship with a college dean or master, officials often refer to them while writing letters of recommendation. J.E. Master Gary Haller recounts the daunting task of crafting a recommendation for a student he never knew. Ten years after graduating from Yale, the alum called Haller for an academic recommendation, despite never having met the master during his time at the University. Haller dug into "dead storage" and used the report, along with the student's application essays and transcripts, to piece together a letter. 
If these reports are as humdrum and harmless as the masters and deans insist, why are they kept under wraps? The Buckley Amendment, or Family Educational Right to Privacy Act, ensures students' rights to access university records pertaining to them. Yet William Sledge, a former Calhoun master, acknowledges that keeping the .files "so strictly under lock and key makes it practically difficult to view them." And the statute is vague in regard to circurnstances under which outsiders such as a master or dean can view these files. 
Haller points out, however, that advertising the reports creates another set of logistical problems. When Scholz wrote an angry blurb about the reports in last December's issue of ].E.'s humor magazine, Temptations, Haller feared a "mobilization" en masse" of curious students December 2007 at the dean's office door. Haller's greatest concern is that broader awareness about the reports could damage relationships between freshman counselors and their freshmen. 

Despite Scholz's resentment of his counselor's negative comments; college administrators insist that potentially damning information in the reports does not affect recommendations or incite disciplinary · action. The reports, says Haller, provide only a brief snapshot of a student's performance. Haller draws an analogy between the freshman report and an isolated science grade on a student's academic transcript. "If he or she is a humanities person with a particular aversion to science," he says, "this one grade would represent a distorted picture." 

Like that isolated science grade, the freshman counselor report a short, hand-written paragraph, cradled within the protective walls of a student's permanent file is but a minor piece of a student's biographical puzzle. Innocuous, freely accessible, but curiously surreptitious. 
-Jacqueline Jove


**West Cornwall's Biodiesel Boost**
**Author: Kate Williams**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

IF You DRIVE To W EST C o RNWAI.I., AS FEW bother to do these days, you'll find rnore collapse than innovation. A tiny comer of a tiny township in northwestern Connecticut, West Cornwall is far from anywhere and even further from the cutting edge. As a recent issue of the local Cornwall Chronicle reported, owners of the troubled Berkshire Country Store, with "its gas pumps long silenced and in need of replacement and its deli counter in need of business," decided to take action. Beth Cochran and her husband Rick are staking their decaying mom-and-pop store on a new approach they hope will catch fire: Connecticut's first biodiesel pump. 

The Cochrans aren't sure what the market for the alternative fuel will be. Customers at their gas station and grocery store are curious, said Rick. "Some people wonder what it is: Will it hurt my car? Will it run?" But the first month of sales has been promising. "It's selling just as well as the regular diesel.'' In early November, the Berkshire Country Store was selling its biodiesel for $3.65 per gallon, only about a nickel more than the regular diesel sold down the street. 

The Cochrans' livelihood depends on whether consumers believe sustainability is worth that nickel. Unlike conventional diesel fuel, which is derived from petroleum, biodiesel is derived from vegetable oil or animal fats. As pure biodiesel begins to congeal at low temperatures, New Englanders typically opt for a biofuel blend to ensure cold weather operability. The industry standard has become B20 20 percent biodiesel, 80 percent petrodiesel which is operational down to negative five degrees Fahrenheit.  This blend promises about a 16 percent reduction in C02 emissions. Biodiesel burns normally in any diesel engine and doesn't require modifications to the car. 

Gus Kellogg, founder of Greenleaf Biofuels in Milford, CT, explained that despite a growing demand for biodiesel fuel, stations franchised by oil companies like Exxon -or Chevron are prevented from marketing the fuel of independent distributors. "The real delay has been the fact that at branded stations, the owners have contracts," he says. "So, if you are a Mobil station, you have to sell Mobil oil." 
Like the Cochrans, Kellogg thinks that biodiesel can be marketed by independent retailers as something that sets them apart from the big name brands. ''As soon as we get the first station, there's going to be a domino effect. Because it's something that makes them a little bit unique." 

There are some signs that enthusiasm for biodiesel is spreading. Connecticut diesel drivers who are worried that the carbon footprint of a trip to West Cornwall will cancel out the· benefits of burning biodiesel can visit the Santa Energy fueling station in  ew Haven. 
Although the station serves commercial customers, inclucling Yale's fleet of transit buses, it has been known to accommodate a handful of biodiesel-loyal independent drivers. Other distributors, like Greenleaf Biofuels and Hale Hill Farm Biofuels, even offer home delivery options. 

A grand opening ceremony to celebrate the new pump at the Berkshire Country Store, delayed to accommodate the governor's ribbon-cutting schedule, is in the works for some time before the new year. While not expecting record biodiesel sales, the owners hope that they can help educate Connecticut drivers. "The small mom-and-pop shops don't make a lot of money anyway," Rick Cochran confided. "We did it more as an awareness thing." 
-Kate Williams


**Designing Your Own Major at Yale**
**Author: Daisy Atterbury**
**Page number(s): 8**

THE PRINCETON REVIEW, IN ITS LATEST e-schpiel of unhelpful and unsolicited advice, counseled me, "While it is true that choosing the proper major early on can help spare years, possibly even decades, of personal agony, the major you choose will neither predict nor guarantee your future." In other words, choosing a major is a lose-lose situation · choose incorrectly to devastating effect or make the right decision to. . . no effect. 

In the hope of circumventing "decades of personal agony," coundess Yalies vacillate wildly between fields; they sweat over lists of prerequisites for Philosophy and blanch at pages of requirements for Physics. There are so many EP&Es and MB&Bs to keep track of that drawing letters out of a hat starts to grow appealing. Fearing that anything that actually piques their interest will condemn them to lives of unrelenting hardship, many freshmen are tempted by the pre-professional track. But for the select few who remain discontent with the existing programs of study, there is a different approach. Toss the blue book out the window entirely, and pursue a special divisional major. 

Rather than trying to bend preexisting disciplines to their interests, special divisional majors construct their own academic infrastructure. Sarah Kabay TD '08 is majoring in Poverty and Development. She studies social inequity, its causes, and its potential remedies, taking classes in economics, history, anthropology, sociology, and area studies. "The courses I wanted to take did not fit into any pre-existing major," Kabay explains. Another student, Mona Elsayed JE '08 is majoring in Art Semiotics "an interdisciplinary approach to modern visual media." Elsayed combines classes on aesthetics, theory, and visual and material culture with studio classes in the Art and Architecture schools. Kabay and Elsayed are part of a tradition of a small number of students each year- usually only one or two who succeed in designing their own major. 

The options are limidess, but only a few are plausible. Students hoping to major in Mario Kart will be disappointed. The Special Division Major is only for the determined and self-disciplined. According to Elsayed, "It becomes a sort of survival of the fittest the DUS will suggest that the idea is maybe not appropriate for an undergrad degree, or students will give up because the proposal process is rigorous and the wait is long." 

Students first reseat;ch the area of study and set up an initial meeting with DUS of the special _ divisional major, Jasmina Beserivic. Next, students write the proposal, which must take the form of and present all the information included in the blue book descriptions of Yale's offered majors. The mock blue book entry must list not only the classes the student plans to take but also all courses that Yale offers that will be relevant to the proposed major. This document, usually about ten pages long, then goes before the Committee on Academic Honors and Standing, which approves a discouraging proportion of the thirty or so proposals it receives each year. Application to the major usually starts during fall of sophomore year and can last up to ten months. During this time, students rnust maintain a backup plan and continue to take classes for a regular Yale major .in case their proposal is not accepted. 

But the work doesn't end outside the Dean's office, and students are often left in the job market's dust. Having a major all to one's own means doing a lot of clarification especially for employers. "I almost always have to explain what I mean by semiotics, even to professors or students who have encountered the subject before," says Elsayed. Employers are usually receptive; though · Elsayed often fears they will see semiotics as "too pretentious," this doesn't happen too frequendy. Though the unconventional major doesn't appear on the final diploma Kabay's and Elsayed's will only reflect that they graduated in "special divisional major" having an unusual major can stimulate useful dialogue. "It gives me the opportunity to talk about my interests, research, and work both in and outside the classroom," Kabay says. 

Though the special divisional major may not ensure success in the job market, Elsayed insists that gaining an edge is not her intention. Students pursuing the special divisional major are just like every other Yale student: chasing knowledge for its own sake. Choosing even an invented major may neither predict nor guarantee your future. The men of Animal House may have put it best: 
"I'd listen to him if I were you. He's pre-med." 
"I thought you were pre-law." 
"Same thing." 
-Dai{)' Atterbury


**Dunder Mifflin Infinity: The Office Goes Viral (and Slightly Creepy)**
**Author: Miranda Popkey**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

MICHAEL SCS TT IS FOND OF REFERRING to his employees as his family. In the very first episode of NBC's The Offtc,·e - which mockuments the daily grind at the Scranton, PA branch of a fictional paper company, Dunder Mifflin the well-meaning but eternally hapless Regional Manager, faced with the threat of downsizing, addresses one (black) salesman's concerns. With his trademark combination of an embarrassing need to please and a shocking flair for the inappropriate, he announces: "I'm the head of this family, and you ain't gonna be messin' with my chillun!" On a day dedicated to educating the team about sexual harassment, he is eager to contribute. "Families grow," he says, his tone serious, his eyes radiating concern, "And, at some point, the daddy can't take a bath with the kids anymore." Turning to the receptionist who has no idea how adorable she is, he continues, "It would be inappropriate for me to take a bath with Pam, as much as I might want to." Later, sharing a private moment with the camera, he pulls out a mug that reads "World's Best Boss" a mug he bought for himself and comments, "As far as I'm concerned, this says 'World's Best Dad."' 

To a certain extent, he's right. The Office, now entering its fourth season, has become, for millions of devoted fans, an extended family a cozier, kookier, but still recognizable version of the drab, mindless day-to-day they themselves are forced to endure. And now, with the launch of Dunder Mifflin Infinity, a social networking website of sorts for Office aficionados, that family has gone virtual. 

In the current season's second episode, Ryan, the temp-cum-corporate wiinderkind, returns to Scranton to announce a plan also named Dunder Mifflin Infinity to streamline the stodgy company: the staff will receive Blackberries, and a long-awaited business-to-business website Will finally go online. Michael, threatened by technological developments, mounts a predictably ridiculous counterattack. He plasters pictures of elderly folks on the walls of the conference room, calls a meeting, and announces that new ideas, while nice in theory, are also illegal. 

I'm no Luddite, but taking a tour of the NBC-created Dunder Mifflin Infinity website, I was inclined against my better judgment to agree with Michael. Sure, it seems cute at first: you find a Dunder Mifflin "branch" close to your hometown Quneau, Alaska was lucky enough to be assigned one, but devoted Y alies will have to send their resumes to New Britain), and apply for a position. Once you're approved by your branch's Regional Manager I got a confirmation e-mail December 2007 within the hour; I'm guessing he didn't check my references you tan create a user pro@e Qist your favorite Office character! Your favorite episode! Your favorite quote!), add favorite co-workers, comment on their pro@es, upload photos and videos, and decorate your virtual desk. So far, so familiar: an Office-themed Face book. No harm in that. 

But look closer and the insular madness of devoted fandom encouraged by a healthy network thirst for . branding'---begins to assert itself. Each week NBC devises a "task," inspired by the most recently aired episode, for members to complete. Office drones earn money that leads to promotions and can be redeemed for desk supplies. 

The week after Office sweethearts Jiin and Pam spent the night at a coworker's beet-themed agrotourism destination, on-line employees were urged to download pictures from the trip--or rather, the set and digitally insert themselves. They were asked to write a "detailed" review of their own experience at the makeshift bed-and-breakfast as Jim and Pam had which branch co-workers could then vote on; the most popular review from each branch would be entered into a company-wide competition. A New Britain user named "GraphicDesignPam" seemed to have thoroughly enjoyed her unusual stay: "Every day we had a contest to see who could pick the most beets and then who could move the most manure," she raved in a review titled, "Beeter than the Rest!" "At the end of the week we all took a mud bath together, I sure hope that was mud, and then exfoliated our skin with beet jUice," she continued, her ~ imagination incorporating plot points the writers had been too shy to include. "I never knew there were so many uses for beets!" Her review received an average of four out of five stars. 

I would be lying if I said I hadn't, at several points during the couple's tender but frustrated three-season-long courtship, wished for a Jim of my own. And no, I wouldn't mind meeting Dwight, the aggressively awkward but somehow seductive B&B owner, whose only three interests appear to be bears, beets (of course), and Battlestar Galactica. Still, my on-line co-workers' eagerness to immerse themselves in a double layer of make-believe accepting not only the reality of the TV show, but joining an on-line community that both acknowledges the sitcom's fiction and pretends to be its real-world extension was somehow depressing. Don't these people already have offices filled with bored, unattractive people they get to visit every day? Are their desk jobs nqt unfulfilling enough? 

Well, maybe not. The genius of The Office as television show is that it turns the mundanely depressing the small humiliations that come with making sales calls, coffee, and copies, with being routinely unappreciated and understim,ulated into the genuinely amusing. We laugh at Kelly and Andy and Michael because we'd like to believe that they're slightly less functional, more pathetic versions of ourselves, that their office is a slightly less functional, more pathetic version of our own. But on Dunder Mifflin Infinity, we're not mocking ourselves by proxy anymore- we're just mocking ourselves. Voluntarily. 

As soon as I became an employee of the New Britain branch, the distance between Dwight and me collapsed. There was no room for irony. 

On a recent episode, ·Michael took a second job as a telemarketer for extra cash. And while there were many funny moments the culturally insensitive mid~e-manager chatting with the best salesman, a Pakistani, about his home country as a whole, it was an uncomfortable forty-two minutes. Actual financial distress: actually not that funny. Office fans taking second jobs at an on-line Office made me queasy for much the same reason. Actual job at The Office: actually not that funny. Laughing at a version of The Office that real people that you, in fact work at, is tantamount to turning to the camera and admiu ing, drink in hand, that life is never, ever, going to get any better than this. 
-Miranda Popkry



**Title: Into the Woodshop**
**Author: Sarah Nutman**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"What you have to do is put these together," says Mark Messier, pointing to pieces of freshly sawed wood sitting on an unfinished shelf. "Capisci?"
A freshman listens silencly, wearing a look of bewilderment and stubborn resolve. "No capisci!" Messier continues emphatically, grabbing the two slabs to ready them for gluing. 
lr's a typical Saturday in the Gosselin Woodshop tucked into the basement of Berkeley College. For nearly 15 years, Messier, a professional woodworker and cabinetmaker, has made the hour-long commute from Coventry once each week to help Yale woodworkers fashion everything from bowls to croquet sets. In his tenure as master woodworker, Messier -a man whose gray hair looks almost as grizzled as his fraying shirt and beat-up Columbia moccasins- has become more emblematic of the shop than the black-and-white photograph of its namesake, Edward Webb Gosselin. 

But Messier seems disinterested in his legendary status. He brandishes a broad, jovial smile and starts to tell me about the room's history in epic detail: "There has always been a Berkeley woodshop," he begins. 
He weaves the lore of the wood shop-its dimly lit, closet-sized origins off the Berkeley tunnel, its skeletal form in Swing Space, the society that used it to make mallets for their midnight croquet games-into the lore of his own life. 
This latter yarn begins with the son of an insurance executive in a classic, 1731 New England house. Other than the tedium and odium of the insurance business, Messier, in the spirit of "the do-it-yourself generation" of which he counts himself a part says, "I didn't learn anything from my father." Still, he admires his father for putting _him to work on the house each weekend. He claims it fostered an appreciation for the old, wooden edifice. 
As he describes the house, his tone lightens, shedding its customary sarcasm. 
Messier's passion for his craft stems from the mischief of his youth. Though he carved his first bowl at age seven, Messier aClmits, "most of the rime I just made explosives." His exploits often went beyond mere tinkering. "W/e once tried to make a boat," he remembers, "but it didn't float, so we turned it into a go-cart." 
His flirtation with woodworking'--part infatuation, part casual dating, never anything official followed Messier as he left the land of old ramblers and "real architecture" and headed west to Oregon. It was in this state · "where all · the houses are less than fifty years old"-that a twenty-something Messier took his first and last woodworking class. He had barely begun to construct a rosewood rocker by the conclusion of the course. 
"So I bought a shop smith and finished the chair myself," he says nonchalantly, as if that had been the only option. A few years and "over a hundred picnic tables" later, Messier returned east, having taught himself how to frame, floor, and mold. 

Standing at the lathe, Messier again extols the value of self-education. While he stands with a quiet, unassuming expertise over the student at the machine Berkeley Master Marvin Chun's mother he does little to guide her. In fact, a few moments later, he has wandered away from the amateur. 
'~s long as you know how you can get hurt and avoid those pitfalls, you can do well," he says, before amending his words to include the optimism of all great teachers. "No, you will do well." Indeed, the only person who has ever gotten injured on Messier's watch is himself. 
Asked to describe some of his most memorable projects, Messier displays a lingering grin that seems to suggest he should hold his tongue. 'We picked up and lifted a house nearly 18 inches," he laughs. "I almost killed myself. You see, I had my ·head on the ground and three inches above .me was the cast iron drain for the toilet. The drain dropped two." He leans toward me to whisper the moral of the story: "But I learned how to jack a house." Most of Messier's stories share a similar lesson: one learns more by doing than learning how to do. But the self-reliant Messier is too playful to be preachy. He likes to tnock himself, and he likes to mock Yale even more. Chuckling, he explains that he is often asked to carve names on plaques for different colleges. "I've never done it in my life" he says. 

These days, Messier rarely finds himself an inch frmn death. He runs a restoration company, recently re-named Birch Bend Builders, out of his "kick-ass shop." 
But he's content with the tamer projects of Birch Bend building kitchens, domg historical renovations, and insta11ing bathroom stalls. And he always looks forward to his Saturdays in the Berkeley basement. ''The students keep me young," he says. "Every year I get to meet 18- and 19- year olds. It's a fresh perspective." · Certain students stand out in his memory. He remembers one heavily pierced disciple who had quit high school as a junior and another who was commissioned to make conductors' batons for a campus orchestra. 
Messier worries that these types of students are· growing extinct at Yale. With each passing year, he has noticed that students know and care less and less about his craft. "It used to be that students had a grandfather not father, mind you, but, still, a grandfather that was a woodworker. Now," he laments, "there's a detachment. We're living in a material world." Messier fears that the art of woodworking will disappear in the name of lofty pre-professionalism. 
"Do you know how many parents think a woodshop in a college is ridiculous?" he asks. But Messier refuses to feel sorry for himself. Instead, he takes his own advice, doing exactly as he told a woodworker one Saturday morning as he left him alone to sand: "If you get something that's really bad, just deal with it." 
TN 
Sarah N utman is a .freshman in Trumbull College.


**Title: Untitled**
**Author:  Unknown**
**Page number(s): 12**

needed flour to bake cookies one Sunday morning, but I was in Germany, where the stores are closed on that day. The Dutch, fortunately, believe in Sunday shopping, and I could ride ·the bus from Aachen, Germany to Vaals, Holland. Midway through the 15-minute journey, three Muslim women got on board. They seemed to float down the aisle in their black abtgas, their moving feet obscured by the cloaks that covered them from head to. toe. They took their seats opposite me, the sun shining on their black headscarves. One woman wore a niqab over her face; only her eyes glinted in the light. Another woman's exposed face sparkled with the sheen of melon-colored lipstick and layers of green eye-shadow. I found myself self-conscious of my skirt. Did they think I was immodest? Even as I scrutinized them, I worried about being judged in turn. I wondered how the woman revealing only her eyes and the woman exposing a painted face could believe in the same idea of modesty, in the same Islam. It troubled me that I thought of them as a flock, as anonymous women wearing oppressive shrouds. As a woman of color and a feminist, I was surprised to uncover the limits of my cultural understanding. In search of some 12 answers, I turned to the voices of five Muslim women at Yale. 

"""'11he watmth of Altaf's smile radiates from her expressive brown eyes as she says hello to every other person we pass on our walk. An ethnic counselor for freshmen and one of the most vocal members of the Muslim Students Association and Asian American Students Association, Alta£ is a prominent campus presence. She is half Iranian and half Iraqi, a Shia Muslim who grew up in California. When she was about 14, she chose. to wear the headscarf along with her sister. It was a decision she had often considered, one that she has reevaluated ever since. But her reasons for wearing it have only strengthened over the past eight years. ''Wearing the headscarf removed me from the world where I was constantly judged for physical reasons. And who I am as a person is more important than my physical characteristics," she says. 

The headscarf has also grounded Alta£ in her faith and brought her closer to God. When she gathers the folds around her hair every morning, she is reminded of what her faith means to her. ''I like being tied to a tradition;" Alta£ says. "In a family it is natural to wear it. You see its significance to the people you admire and care about." The headscarf, which immediately identifies her faith, connects her not only to her nuclear family but also to a larger Muslim one. "There's an immediate sense that you're Muslim. No matter where I go in the U.S., I feel like I'm going to have an immediate community." Although wearing the headscarf can subject a woman to stereotypes and racism, it has actually allowed Alta£ to confront those assumptions. "People assume that you are quiet and shy ... that the headscarf makes you anonymous," she says. "For me, it's a way of asserting my identity. But there are women who don't assert their identity and who see the headscarf as mandatory." 
Altaf is not one of them. For her, it is about choice the choice to wear the headscarf and to explore her faith and identity in relation to it. 
'--ahreen's parents are from Bangladesh, a country that is home to the world's fourth largest, mostly Sunni, Muslim population. Traditionally, Bengali Muslim women wear saris and. do not wellf the headscarf, though this pattern has changed in recent years. When Zahreen's mother immigrated to the U.S.,



**Title: The Headscarf**
**Author: Aditi Ramakrishnan**
**Page number(s): 13-14**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
she chose to wear the headscarf for the 
first time in her life. In America, unlike in 
Bangladesh, she felt the need to affirm her 
Muslim identity. Zahreen did not follow 
suit. She tucks her glossy hair behind 
her ear as she explains her own choice. 
"Wearing a headscarf would not make me 
more Musllin, but maybe more Muslim, 
physically, to others," she says. "People 
think that if you wear a headscarf you 
are more religious." Zahreen, who prays 
five times a day, fasts, and tries to practice 
Muslim ethics such as being charitable, 
refraining from gossip, and dressing 
modestly, resents this misinterpretation. 
Part of the reason she does not wear 
the headscarf is to challenge others' 
perception of Muslims as a monolithic 
group. She believes in a spectrum of 
Muslim practice, subject to individual 
interpretation. I ask her if feminism and 
the headscarf can be woven together. 
"Part of the fervor around the h!Jab," she 
says, "comes from the conception that it 
is only women who have to wear it, and 
the West is obsessed with how the rest 
of the world treats women. Freedom of 
choice is the ability to make choices, not 
the choices you have." 

December 2007 
A
side 
from 
one cousin and 
a 
grandmother who lives in India, 
Zenah is the only woman in her family who 
wears the headscarf. After the September 
11"' attacks, Zenah's cousin began to wear 
it, and Zenah, too, soon became curious 
about the veil. When she read about the 
to various ethoicities and religions. 
Through donning the veil, though, she is 
immediately identified as Muslim. 
Most of her family did not react 
significantly when she began wearing it. 
Her mother was initially encouraging. But 
when Zenah began wearing the headscarf 
(7 wanted to stand out. I wanted 
people to come up to ·me and ask 
me about Islam. '' 
h!Jab in the Qur'an, she interpreted it as a 
call for modesty. ''Wearing the headscarf is 
a process of finding yourself, and finding 
identity," says Zenah, who does not see 
the tradition as a mandatory practice for 
every woman, but believes it is mandatory 
for her. "I wanted to see if it is possible 
to '-\·ear the headscarf in American society 
and be l\luslun. I did not want to become 
a political emblem; I just wanted to see 
if I couJd be visibly American Muslim 
and integrate into society." With her 
green-gray eyes, Zenah couJd be linked 
-Nisreen 
every time she went out, even to dinner 
at a friend's home, her mother tried to 
stop her. For two or three years, Zenah's 
mother was upset that her daughter 
constantly wore the headscarf, but she 
never forced Zenah ro remove it. Now 
she accepts jt as part of Zenah's identity. 
Though Zenah did not want to become a 
political emblem, she has been influential 
in overrurning misconceptions about the 
headscarf within and outside her family. 
She has made it clear, even to her mother, 
that she wears the headscarf by choice. 


While it is a symbol of oppression in 
certain countries, it is quite the opposite 
here. 
first time I discovered that 
Nisreen had worn a headscarf was 
during an interfaith service trip to New 
Orleans. We were sitting in a circle, 
hanging onto Nisreen's captivating and 
articulate narration of her relationship 
with her faith. Nisreen's mother is from 
Malaysia, a secular country where Islam 
is a dominant religion, and Nisreen grew 
' 
up in California. She was the only Muslim 
girl in her school. After the World Trade 
Center fell, many of her peers approached · 
her with stereotypical comments and 
assumptions about Islam. For Nisreen, the 
decision to wear the hijab was a political 
. one. "I wanted to draw attention to the 
. 
fact that I was Muslim," says Nisreen, 
who first donned the headscarf at the age 
ot 14. "I wanted to stand out. I wanted 
people to come up to me and ask me 
about Islam. The hijab was an attention-
grabb~r for me." 
During . the two years she wore the 
headscarf, she found herself being cast 
as · the perfect Muslim girl in both Islamic. 
and non-Islamic communities. Becoming 
a symbol for such a large community· 
was troubling. She also noticed that the 
lieadscarf defined who was a "good" 
or "bad" Muslim; the women who did 
not wear it were treated as outsiders in 
the Muslim community. Nisreen began · 
to question her reasons for wearing the 
headscarf. ''When I wore the hfjab I felt 
that I didn't need to watch what I said. I 
felt I judged too much. Was I wearing it to 
show off that I was a Muslim?" Nisreen 
• ultitilately decided to take it off. "It is 
better to act as an upright person than 
put on a scarf and pretend to be a person 
I'rn not really," she says frankly. Afte.r she 
stopped wearing the headscarf, people in 
e assu 
e 
• • • 
ouanon 
• 
awa 0 
both communities would ask her if she 
was giving up on the faith. One teacher 
even said, "It was really nice to see you 
make a statement. Why did you stop?" 
But her decision to stop wearing the veil 
was a statement in itself one in line with 
the various statements she continues to 
make. 

was worried that I would be attacked 
when I . came here," Nuru confides. 
This was two and a half years ago, when 
she left her home in Botswana to study 
at Yale. Despite her worries, Nuru has 
worn the headscarf throughout her time 
( 
cou 
e vzsz · 
· at :Yale. She first donned the headscarf at 
age 13, when her friend's father required 
his daughter to wear the headscarf. 
Nuru, along with several friends, began 
to wear the headscarf in solidarity. ''We 
were her friends, and so we wore it with 
her," she says. The practice wasn't foreign 
to . Nuru 
every woman in her family 
wore the headscarf, and she had always 
expected to don it. In Botswana and New 
Haven, she wears it to identify herself as 
Muslim and to follow her interpretation 
of the religious commandments. She 
believes the headscarf protects women 
from being viewed as objects and 
generates respect based on their character, 
not appearance. Despite the weight it 
carries, the headscarf, she concedes, is 
ou are 
ous . 
• • 
just a headscarf. "It's a tiny part of the 
whole idea of modesty, which includes 
speaking and acting modestly," Nuru says. 
''A lot of people just see the headscarf 
as a symbol of oppression and assume 
various things about me. Friends have not 
told me certain things because· they think 
I would judge them," she says. I thought 
back to my worry of the woman in full 
burqa judging me. I realize the folly of my 
concerns when Nuru continues, "If you 
look at the scripture, you can't judge." 

n the Qur'an, the passage about the 
hijab does not specify which parts of the 
eco 
en can 
'' 
body must be covered. The specifics come 
from a H adith, or saying of the Prophet 
Muhammad. Literally interpreted, it says 
that women must cover all but their hands 
and feet; men must cover from navel to 
knee. But both Altaf and Zahreen tell 
me that they read scriptures such as the 
Qur'an with the historical context in 
mind. Languages are alive and change, 
as do interpretations. It is this fluidity 
that surfaces in these women's decisions, 
and which enriches, in turn, their shared 
religion . 

-
TN 
Aditi Ramakrishnan, a junior in Timotf?y Dwight 
College, is an associate editor of TN]. 
THE NEW JOURNAL 



**Student Microcreditors Venture into Town**
**Author: Alexis Fitts**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
aime Verab sees potential in every water fixture. "People don't know they have all these options," says Verab, "so I ask every new client, 'What do you want to see? What do you want to hear?'" 
The options vary widely. From gurgling pond to rushing brook to manmade waterfall, Aquatic Artisans, Verab's waterscape business, will build you just about anything you can imagine. This kind of customer service is key to an independent business like Verab's. As he tells his clients, "I can't compete with other people's prices, but they can't compete with my attention and quality." 

But over the past few years, Verab's orders have been on the decline. After countless trade shows and several free displays failed to improve business, he began to look for other options. When a friend told him about a program at Yale called Elmseed, he was intrigued. Now, Verab has staked his entrepreneurial hopes on a project run by college undergraduates. 

Elmseed, a nonprofit microcredit group that provides independent entrepreneurs like Verab with small loans and business training, is operated entirely by Yale students. Elmseed grants loans without performing any credit check or asking for any collateral, relying instead on a social incentive for timely repayment. Clients, who are formed into groups of three to five members, can only take out a new loan if the rest of their group is up-to-date on its payments. With each successful repayment, the loans increase in size, doubling successively from $1,500 to a max of $12,000 each time a client repays a loan. 

The effect is twofold. By granting loans without background checks, Elmseed allows those who might be overlooked by regular banks to have access to capital. By using a group model, Elmseed simultaneously establishes a community of business peers and ensures that, despite its clients' lack of credit rating, its loans get repaid without resorting to hostile creditors or legal action. 

Elmseed is not alone in this endeavor. Its business plan is based on Muhammad Yunus's Grameen Bank, which was originally established in 1976 in Bangladesh but was not thrust into the spotlight until 2006, when Yunus won the Nobel Peace Prize for his work. Elmseed is one of a growing cohort of microcredit groups that has cropped up across the globe in the last fifteen years, most of which aim to implement variations of Yunus's model not just in the developing world, but in the United States as well. 

The concept is an innovative reworking of the American Dream with the modest goal of ending poverty, one hardworking entrepreneur at a time. By giving the working poor a helping hand rather than a hand-out, microfinance offers an ideological truce. As James Choy '03, one of Elmseed's founders, says, "Liberals love it because it provides resources to the desperately poor that wouldn't otherwise have access to them. Conservatives love it because it gives people the chance to end their own poverty through capitalism and hard work." 

It is almost impossible, however, for a microcredit agency to break even, let alone make money, in industrialized nations. In developing countries, microcredit usually turns a profit, despite the high amount of labor required to produce multiple small-scale loans. Microcredit groups in the developing world maintain low operating costs and high interest rates, which can range from 10 percent in Asia to almost 150 percent in parts of Africa. In the United States, however, operating costs are high and federal regulations limit interest rates, making microfinance less practical. 

Elmseed has found a way to work around these obstacles. In translating domestic microfinance to a college system, Elmseed cut operating costs by substituting student volunteers for paid labor. "We wouldn't be able to support the twenty staff members that we have if we paid them," says senior Cynthia Okechukwu, Elmseed's director of development. Using unpaid students, she explains, allows Elmseed to "have as much human capital as possible." 

Elmseed is hoping its model will stick. After a solid six years in New Haven, Elmseed has already inspired a similar program at Harvard, the Cambridge Microfinance Initiative, which began about a year ago. Elmseed is currently in consultation with Rutgers, Georgetown, and Trinity, hoping to spread its gospel even further. 


---

**The Elmseed Enterprise Fund**
**Page number(s): 17-18**

It all started six years ago in a late night dorm room bull session between then-sophomore Choy and his roommate Gabriel Kuris. Spurred by Choy's internship with Project Enterprise, a microcredit firm that operates out of New York City, the two were discussing why microcredit doesn't work in the United States. "James was saying that the problem is in Bangladesh you can hire really qualified grad students for two hundred dollars a month, but in America labor is expensive," says Kuris. "One way to do it in America is to use college students who could do everything for free." They partnered with classmates Kitty Harvey and Nowshad Rizwanullah, and over a series of dinner meetings and late nights, the four sophomores drew up a business plan for Choy's brain-child. 

The Elmseed Enterprise Fund launched after winning the Yale Entrepreneurial Society's YSOK competition in 2001. Their proposal, created entirely by undergrads, beat out many proposed by groups of graduate students and even faculty. Through the YSOK seed money, and a partnership with Citizens Bank, the students were left with their dream, a business plan, and, according to Choy, "more money than we knew what to do with." 

The original YSOK check still hangs mounted on the wall of the Elmseed office, along with computer print-outs of inspirational quotes and a broken clock. Though the office is small, its corporate setting in a Church Street office building is a far cry from the church basements and free community spaces in which Elmseed originally met. Not only necessary but strategic, the office lends a note of professionalism to this corps of college students. Elmseed staff members always wear business attire to meetings, and they emphasize preparation and punctuality. "We're a professional business," says Elmseed CEO Ka Mo Lau '09. "When you're dealing with someone's finances, apologies don't matter." 

By creating a professional business, Elmseed has also created a selective one. With a 30 percent acceptance rate of applicants for staff positions, it's harder to receive a place on the small staff than it is to receive a loan. Students are expected to have equal parts professional know-how and community compassion. "One of the questions we always ask in our interview is 'What would you spend $1,500 on?'" says Lau. "I mean, that's so small, a lot of us spent more than that on books freshman year. It's important to be aware of these things." 

Although staff members sacrifice many aspects of college life to run a business, they still struggle to measure up to full-time workers. Elmseed staffers work long, unpaid hours and are expected to maintain professionalism regardless of midterms and problem sets. Every summer, a senior officer forgoes lucrative internships in consulting and finance to stay behind in the office. "We aren't a full time staff that works 24/7, but our clients expect that kind of service," says Lau. "Their businesses aren't seasonal; we can't take spring break off." 

For sophomore Dana Wu, Elmseed's director of public relations, this professionalism takes a heavy toll. "Over the summer, when I was on the West Coast, a client would call me at seven a.m. East Coast time," says Wu. "Even at four a.m. my time, I would take the calls." 

But Elmseed's cadre of students simply cannot provide this sort of continuous, dedicated service every hour of every day. This past summer, one of Verab's group members wanted to pay back his loan but was unable to get in touch with the Elmseed staff. There were no center meetings and phone calls went unreturned. Verab expressed his annoyance: "If they're going to be a professional organization, you have to know how to return a phone call, every time." 



**Elmseed Clients**
**Page number(s): 18**

Claudia Kay deals in daffodils and chrysanthemums, but her wares are of the plastic variety. "I started working with fresh flowers, but I found I could do more with synthetic," says Kay. She has yet to take out a loan, but she credits Elmseed with bringing her out of retirement and offering her a chance to turn her knack for crafts, jewelry, and flower arrangements into a second career. "It gets you doing something," says Kay. "More than the money, Elmseed keeps you motivated." 

Kay found Elmseed's members refreshingly engaged. At a series of center meetings, which several groups attend every other week, she presented her business plans and received presentations from the Elmseed staff on topics ranging from risk management to pricing models. "The students are smart, and there's always something to learn," says Kay. Even more valuable than her interactions with the Elmseed staff have been her interactions with fellow entrepreneurs. "Some of the other clients are very experienced," says Kay. "They've given me some great ideas for my business." 

Darryl Minchenko, another Elmseed client, takes a less relaxed approach to entrepreneurialism than Kay. Minchenko lives and breathes business. His website includes streaming homemade videos marketing a golf/ring-toss fusion that Minchenko calls "Soft-Toss." Techno music blares, a camera flashes, and the scene pans to Minchenko, clad in a button-down shirt and his signature Yankees cap, promoting Soft-Toss at the IGA Inventors Expo. Children putt, laughing and pressing their arms in the air. A man swerves his face toward the camera. "I'm taking a bunch of these home!" In the end, all Minchenko took home from the expo was a silver medal. "No one bought my product," he says. "They bought into it, but no one bought it." 

So when Elmseed walked through the door of Smooth's, a barbershop which Minchenko currently runs, he was intrigued. "They were talking about giving money away," he says. "Whether it's from a kid or an adult, money's money." However, like Kay, Minchenko has yet to take out a loan. He spends his time focusing on his business plan rather than financing new initiatives. Still, Minchenko finds Elmseed's connections and networking opportunities particularly helpful. "You never know who's in the room, or who these kids are gonna know," he says. 

In ten years, Minchenko hopes to be giving seminars and motivational speeches and marketing his business plan. He wants to be as successful as Tim Washington, an Elmseed legend, cited in its business proposal as an example of how to capitalize on a small sum of money. But Washington's initial capital was not a loan, but a lottery win. He cashed in a two thousand dollar lottery ticket in the late '80s and used the money to buy a hot dog cart. The one cart soon multiplied into ten, which became a fleet of ice cream carts during a particularly hot summer. He has now transformed his lotto luck into property investments worth, he estimates, between seven and eight million dollars. "I've always known how to make money," says Washington. "I know how to turn a dollar into five, but accounting—that's where Elmseed helps me out." Though he took out only a single loan from Elmseed, mostly as a favor to the fledgling organization (he bought some soda with it, he recalls), Washington continues to attend center meetings. "They're sort of a guide for me," says Washington. "You're always going to learn something every time you go there." 

But the assistance that microcredit offers can only help those, like Washington, who are ready to take it. B.J. Hartman, one of Elmseed's first clients, seemed an ideal beneficiary of microcredit efforts. Born into poverty and missing both arms, Hartman was a hot-dog vendor who wanted to take out a loan to start a business selling winter clothes on the New Haven Green. He was frozen out in a few months. "Other folks were selling things


**Title: Microcredit in New Haven**
**Author: Alexis Fitts**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
that were cheaper than what I'm selling," 
says Hartman. "It was like going into the 
lion's den." 

After some financial difficulties and 
personal crises, Hartman defaulted on 
his loan. His team members paid it back 
through combined fundraising · efforts, 
but Hartman is no longer involved with 
Elmseed. Currently working in customer . 
service, Harttnan misses the freedom of 
being self-employed, but he doesn't miss 
the challenges of running a small busi-
ness. "Most people say it's like baby steps, 
but I noticed being a small business you 
get stepped on easily." 

Dean Karlan, an assistant professor 
of economics at Yale who specializes 
in microcredit, believes that stories like 
these 
more than the challenges of inter-
est rates and operating costs 
explain the 
mixed record of microcredit in America. 
"One of the biggest challenges domestic 
microcredit faces is that most small enter-
prises in America fail," says Karlan. "In 
developing countries there's a flourish-
ing sector that is huge, but you don't see 
much of that in America. It's less obvious 
the types of things that an unemployed 
person with a five hundred dollar loan 
can do." Because of this difficult market, 
successfully starting a business requires 
unique initiative, something that few pos-
sess. 

Clayton Williams, a senior loan officer 
with New Haven's Small Business Initia-
tive, which provides small entrepreneurs 
with business training and slightly larger 
loans than Elmseed's, tries to make sure 
that his clients are prepared to run a small 
business. "I always ask new clients, 'Are 
you the kind of person who doesn't mind 
working 18-20 hours a day? Or do you 
need eight to ten hours of sleep and want 
to take a vacation every year?' If you're the 
former then maybe you can start a busi-
ness, and if you're the latter you should 
probably get a job," says Williams. 

lmseed's founders were disillusioned 
-
by the difficulties of creating suc-
cessful businesses from scratch. '1: think 
in the beginning we imagined that we'd 
just put up signs saying 'Microloans' 
and people would come," says Kuris. In-
stead, recruiting was difficult; most of the 
group's initial clients were brought in with 
Washington's help, and t nany of the origi-
nal loan recipients were unprepared to 
start a business. A jazz musician defaulted 
on the money he had borrowed to cut his 
demo tape. A woman who had hoped to 
start a promising business selling supplies 
for the deaf lacked the contacts to form a 
group and, as no pre-existing groups had 
space, was unable even to join the pro-
gram. ''A lot of people took their kind-
ness for weakness," Washington says of 
the Elmseed staf£ "Because they're young 
and from Yale, people think you've got a 
lot of money." 

It was a short but difficult time, Kuris 
believes, before the staff began to under-
stand the complexity of poverty. ''After 
the first year we were really humbled, 
both by the initiative of our staff, and the 
difficulties of the issue at hand," he says. 
"It was a steep learning curve." 

Jeremy Kahan '04, a former CEO of 
Elmseed who currently sits on its board, 
reiterates the delicate balance between 
business and philanthropy. "You're lend-
ing to people who have a very fragile eco-
nomic situation," says Kahan. "These are 
real-life people with real-life situations. 
You know what, it's really hard to collect 
your $1,500 when someone doesn't have 
enough money to pay for their dialysis." 

Despite these issues, the repayt 11ent rate 
that first year was over 90 percent and is 
now an impressive 94 percent. 

Though this statistic sounds promis-
ing, it doesn't necessarily indicate Elm-
seed's success in geu ing small businesses 
off the ground with micro-loans. Victor 
Wong '09, CPO of Elm seed, declined to 
provide the number of successful busi-
nesses created through Elmseed fund-
ing. Alumni estimate ten businesses have 
prospered. Lau believes that Elmseed's 
success should be measured in its repay-
ment rates, its business successes, and its 
personal successes. "One of our clients 
is a clo~n, and he employs half a dozen 
people," says Lau. "It's making change on 
a small scale, and seeing it spread." 

But for some clients, this scale is too 
small. Despite the twenty-thousand dol-
lars of loans Elmseed is currently circu-
lating amongst its clients, Verab has yet 
to take out a threshold loan of $1,500. 
"I look at Elmseed as brainstorming," 
Verab explains. "Maybe 1 percent of all 
businesses can do something with a loan 
of $1,500. For my business, for an estab-
lished business, that kind of money is 
nothing. Yeah, you can buy a hot dog cart, 
but to rent a facility, to buy equipment, it's 
just not going to work." 

As a student organization, however, 
Elmseed's success should be measured 
not only in terms of its clients, but in 
terms of its staff. After ditching problem 
sets for center meetings and summer par-
ties for four a.m. phone calls with clients, 
the students who work for Elmseed come 
to identify with the singular devotion and 
sacrifice necessary to operate a small busi-
ness. Kahan is fully aware of Elmseed's 
role in shaping students' futures. ''We've 
created several independent businesses, 
and besides that we're getting ten kids 
who are doing something very concrete, 
meaningful, and important," he explains. 
"People who graduate from Elmseed go 
on to become great civil leaders." 

Choy emphasizes that the concept of 
microcredit is still in a trial phase. "The 
jury is still out on microcredit in general," 
he says. "Even Grameen, which has been 
around for thirty years now 
there are 
still lots of debates about whether that's 
a good idea now." 

Elmseed's staff members remain con-
vinced. ''Elmseed doesn't rna ke claims to 
change the world," says Wu. ''We're not 
going to change New Haven in a year. But 
I know Elmseed has made a difference in 
individual's lives." 

A lexis Fitts is a senior i11 Bra'!ford College. 


**Title: On the summit of Science Hill**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 20**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
n the summit of Science 
Hill, across the street from 
a row of fading Victorian 
porches and an aged gun 
factory with punctured windows, sits 
a wheelbarrow visibly worn by a loose 
summer spent outdoors. Cradling empty 
beer bottles, it perches near a chalkboard 
covered with Dave Garinger's to-do list: 
''Weed. Divide Iris. Mow down Locust 
Sprouts. Transplant Veggies!!!" 
For the last twenty five years, Garinger 
has lived inside a little clapboard house 
wedged between Mansfield Avenue and 
Hillside Place. As the groundskeeper of 
the Marsh Botanic Gardens, Garinger's 
morning commute consists of puu ing on 
a pair of well-made shoes and stepping 
outside. "Since I live so close," he says, 
"I did a comical video of my commute 
and sent it to my mom. The whole time 
I was saying .things like 'Look, Mom, isn't 
this horrible? I tripped over a rock."' He 
spends the workday weeding the rest of 
the garden, so you'll have to excuse him 
if his own front steps at number 227 are a 
little overgrown. 

The whitewashed cottage forms the 
cornerstone of eight acres of sloping land 
that once belonged to Othniel Marsh, a 
philanthropist whose estate was bestowed 
to the Forestry School in 1899. Some time 
in the last century, a biology professor 
and his wife converted their home on 
the property into an apiary. Scores of 
beehives filled the ground floor. When 
the couple left, the bees were moved out, 
and Garinger moved in. Remnants of its 
former residents remain 
just beyond the 
chainlink fence overgrown with berries 
and jewelweed, visitors are still greeted by 
an ominous sign: "Beware of Bees First 
Floor." 

The work at Marsh Botanic Gardens, 
150 feet from Dave's front steps, involves 
growing plants for genetic research, 
filling orders from a flock of Yale labs, 
and providing a playground for ecology 
classes 
seeking hands-on experience. 
Garinger, the horticulturalist, and Eric 
Larson, the general manager, split the 
daily work. Between the two of them, 
the micro- and macro·- fauna are in good 
hands. Four ~reenhouses, affectionately 
named 1, 2, 3, and 4, split off from 
a 
cracked concrete driveway. 
Here, 
something is · always blooming or being 
dug up. Thankfully, there's still enough 
time for side projects: overgrown pebbles 
are scattered along the path between 
the two largest greenhouses, where Eric 
and Dave are designing a sitting garden 
lined with an overhead trellis for growing 






--- Page 21 ---

grapes. They are determined to coax the 
grapevine to adulthood. "In the summer 
the leaves will shade us," Eric explains, 
"and in the winter they'll fall down and 
we'll get some nice sunlight." 
In addition to shade, these plants will 
provide a valuable scientific resource. 
Currently, rows of high-tech corn are 
incubating in and around Greenhouse 
4. "We grow the newfangled types 
of mutant corn the professors keep 
breeding," Garinger says. The shrunken 
corn husks, each one a tenth the size of a 
normal ear, are swaddled in white socks to 
prevent cross-pollination. They look like 
midget vegetables to us because they're 
engineered to echo the pre-Neolithic 
' 
ancestors of corn, an eye-opening display 
for the students of agriculture who visit 
the Gardens. -The local wildlife enjoy 
them as well. "The butterflies down at 
the biology lab like to eat corn seedlings," 
Garinger shares, "but now I've got them 
hooked on collard greens." 
Greenhouse 1 is a rebellious museum. 
A 
world-wide 
assortment of ·flora 
intended to educate visiting students fills 
the room. Whole continents are presented 
in miniatpre. Three thousand species of 
plants are clustered by climate, but there's 
no regard for nationality: a Malayan 
Coconut Palm rubs branches with an 
Australian Wollami Pine. The coffee and 
' 
chocolate trees are both sprouting beans 
this year, and the Trovita sweet oranges 
have ripened into their namesake color. 
A portion of each day is set aside for 
detangling the cucumber shoots that like 
to crawl up the windows. "It's a jungle," 
Garinger tells me. "I feel like I'm always 
weeding or clipping." He looks at the 
mossy tree fern and moans, "This thing 
has gotten huge! I need to trim it back." 
Garinger keeps a window display of 
hothouse orchids, but most of them are 
missing their signature blooms. ''They're 
easily kept alive, but it's so hard to get 
them to flower," he mourns. Off in a 
corner, the carnivorous plants keep to 
themselves. Sundews lure in flies with 
their tentacles, while butterwarts stick out 
their dewy topgues. Venus flytraps snap 
their eyes shut at the stroke of a single 
finger. 
But Garinger's heart lies in drier 
December 2007 
• 
places. Although he's not too fond of the 
bees his predecessors kept in his home, 
he's keen on another kind of prickly pet: 
his collection of shrunken cacti. · All of 
them live across the road in Greenhouse 
2, part of the educational collection that 
doubles as Garinger's hobby house. His 
favorite cacti- are the living stones of 
Africa, whose flat bumps form a natural 
pavement, and the night-blooming cirrus, 
whose flowers are pollinated by wild bats. 
Somewhere in here is a resident snake 
-
that Garinger rarely sees. Lately it's taken 
to changing its clothes in public: a dried 
shell of a snakeskin lies coiled by a cluster 
of prickly pears. 
"I started this about twenty years ago, 
and some are as old as I've been here," 
Garinger tells me with a smile. He points 
to a noto cactus that could be taken for 
a menacing spiked cucumber. The most 
dangerous cacti have the smallest weapons. 
Glockids, tiny little spines that dig into 
your skin, won't let go after they get a 
After the tour, Larson joins us, and 
the two men show me the three surviving 
bee~ves in Garinger's backyard. These 
bees are the grandchildren of the original 
ones that used to live indoors, and their 
honey is now in demand on the local 
market. Today, they're as busy as could 
be expected. "They love the . goldenrod 
this time of year. They're really working 
it!" he marvels. But then he looks a little 
troubled. "I think they've noticed us," he 
says. "I see them gathering in a clump to 
try and protect the queen. It looks like 
they're getting ready to swarm." 
We hurry back to the gardeners' office, 
and during their afternoon tea break I ask 
Garinger and Larson of their plans for 
the Marsh Botanic Gardens. Using Yale 
funding, they hope to raise the glass roofs 
and turn the low-ceilinged greenhouses 
into a full-blown conservatory, where they 
could plant tropical trees and let them 
grow to their full adult height. ''We need 
a taller structure!" Larson announces. 
corn 
one 
• 
e sz 
. a norJ 
eat; are 
rev en 
• zn 
• 
• 
on. 
hold of you. Once, when he was giving a 
tour to a group of second graders, a boy 
got his hands full of them, and Garinger 
could think of no home remedy. ''I told 
the teacher, 'One of your kids has cactus 
spines all over him! I don't know what to 
do,"' he says. "I tell the kids, 'Don't touch 
the cacti,' and they never listen. They go 
around rubbing this and that; they put 
their weight on everything." 
Besides 
the 
four 
greenhouses, 
Garinger also maintains a classroom 
for the Yale ecology classes that come 
in to study plants. Professors choose 
specimens in advance, and Garinger lifts 
each plant from its greenhouse to form 
a rotating exhibit. Today there is a young 
cinnamon tree and a papaya plant, but 
tomorrow they might be replaced by a 
pair of elephant ears and a sago palm. 
"Right now, the coffee and chocolate trees 
can only grow to be dwarfs." Garinger 
nods in agreement. I ask them if they 
think all these wishes will bear fruit, and 
Larson gives me a sagely look. ''It's like 
throwing grass seed out there: some of it 
comes up, and some of it doesn't." 
• 
Mai Wang is a sophomore in Timotf?y Du-ight 
College. 
21 


**Yale Workers and Child Care**
**Author: Kate Selker**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
'Some would say the basement kitchen of Davenport's dining hall is no place for a child. Massive knives, fierce sieves, gargantuan ovens and freezers a hippo could get lost in are some of the kitchen's most obvious perils. A body four feet high could easily disappear in the fray. But others might note the fun of seeing pastries get iced or watching soup bubble in big pots. Practically everything gleams. And few could deny that the upstairs dining area holds even more appeal. Even college students have been tempted to play Harry Potter underneath the chandelier, or make faces at the solemn portraits on the wall.

Fewer still would say that it is safer, or more enjoyable, for children to be home by themselves for four hours a day after school. This dilemma plays out constantly for the many Yale workers who are single parents with children at home. It's a problem many Americans face. Everyone wants to spend time with their kids, babysitters are expensive, and most children are curious to see their parents at work. Yale, in particular, is an enticing place for children: the courtyards are big and green, the colleges full of crannies to explore, and the dining halls stocked with four tubs of ice cream a night. Not to mention the lure of college students. Big kids are cool.

Although Yale seems the perfect place to bring your daughter to work, practical concerns often win out. According to Diderot Desgrottes, a Davenport chef who spends time in the basement kitchen, "It's extremely unsafe down here. People get hurt all the time." Nevertheless, Desgrottes acknowledges the dilemma of the single parent. "If there's an emergency or something, you can't just leave them at home. You don't have that many options."

Though Yale workers are contractually barred from bringing any children to their shift, the practice remains a staple in many dining halls. Briana Janelle Ursini, granddaughter of Davenport's Joanne Ursini, has been visiting the dining hall since she was two. It didn't seem to be a problem for anyone.

"She'd sit quietly at one of the tables, and she would read, or sketch, or write poetry," Ursini explains. "She even knew how to use the computers upstairs." The Davenport community, she says, was welcoming, and the management didn't seem to mind. "Kids would even ask me, 'Joanne, can she hang out with us?' Then they'd all go off kicking a ball around, or reading a book." Ursini explains that she didn't rely on Davenport to entertain her granddaughter. It was for emergencies, or when Briana's school let out early. "It was nice for her, knowing what her grandmother was doing when she wasn't there. She loved going downstairs and watching the inner workings of the place to see me baking, watching me prepare the salad bar."

Problems began to arise, however, when more children started showing up at Davenport. Assistant Manager Hugo Vergara says, "It didn't really bother me at first. But if everybody comes with their kids, then the manager has to take action." Davenport isn't a day care, he says, and it wasn't fair to allow some workers the privilege of childcare and not others. So Brianna doesn't come anymore. "Now I have to pay a person to take care of her," Ursini says. "I tried to take her to the Boys' club, but she says the kids there act like animals."

Vergara has a managerial perspective on the problem. "Employees are not supposed to bring their kids," he says, "and it's hard for the parents to concentrate on the job." At the same time, the dining halls need all the staff they can get, and if a worker has to use a sick day to stay home with a child, everyone loses out.

In Calhoun, a similar pattern arises. Annett Ramos, who started working in the dining hall this year, says she brings her daughter Lydia in about once a month. "I called and said I'd have to stay home to watch her, because I couldn't get a babysitter. But they said they'd rather have me bring her here than not come at all."

"Sometimes we understand," explains Vergara, who often allows a child to come rather than risk being understaffed. It's better for the workers, too if they stay home more than five times over three months, they're issued a verbal warning. After that, they could be fired.

Vergara takes out a sheet charting the patterns of dining hall sick days. Topping the list of reasons why people don't show are "single parent child care issues." While he knows this claim is legitimate, Vergara worries that people have begun to use it as an excuse.


The Yale labor contract states that "to qualify for sick leave pay, an employee is required to be in fact unable to work due to illness or injury." Exceptions to this rule include jury duty, a call to military service, or a death in the family. There is no mention of a need for childcare. In the absence of such sanctioned excuses, an employee may be fired; coming in sick "under false pretenses," notes the contract, constitutes grounds for dismissal.

Yale provides lists of babysitting and daycare services on its 'WorkLife' website, but, according to Vergara, staff rarely use the suggestions. "Not too many people take advantage of them. They don't want to spend the money." Starting in the spring of 2005, Yale provided subsidized rates to parents who needed "caregivers on call" in the case of emergencies. Even with the subsidy, though, parents end up paying between seven and fifteen dollars per hour.

Workers and management alike say they'd love to see an entirely free day care or after school program on campus. Students could staff the program as volunteers. The large number of Yalies participating in tutoring groups such as TIES, Splatter, and other programs, suggests a population willing to help. "There could be one unit for all of Yale," Ursini imagines. "There'd be people of certain criteria, watching the kids do their homework, and it'd be costless, and you'd know that there's integrity behind it."

Support for such a dream is widespread. Shoshana Grant, who works in Davenport and has a baby on the way, says she'd love to be able to "keep an eye on her son" in a college daycare center. Vergara, too, is enthused. "That would be awesome. It'd be good for the workers, and good for us too, because if someone calls in to say they're staying home with their kids, we can say, 'just bring them here!'"

Kate Selker is a freshman in Davenport College.


**Yale's School of Music: A $100 Million Transformation**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I
'
Richard
Levin's Yale
renovates,
its
architects
tear
buildings
down
and
re-imagine. them. And when the Yale
School of Music's Dean, Robert Blocker,
imagines
with a $100 million gift at his
disposal he imagines shamelessly.
This July; the School of Music's
orchestra, the Philharmonia, will travel to
China to perform with Beijing's Central
Conservatory
a full Yale ensemble, five
· hundred Chinese singers, and two Yale
graduates flown in from. the Metropolitan
Opera, performing on one stage at . the
•
2008 Cultural Olympiad, the artistic
companion to the Olympic Games. But
how, Blocker asks, separated as they are
by seven thousand miles, will the entire
group be able to rehearse together
beforehand? Envision, for a moment,
the rehearsal room at Hendrie ·Hall,
one of Yale's musk buildings, which is
slated for full-scale renovation in May.
Blocker closes his eyes rapturously and
shifts his weight, imagining how such a
challenge could be tackled in future years.
Suppose Hendrie's May renovation could
be completed . in advance of the July
performance: "On one side. of the hall
will be a screeri showing a live video feed
of the group in China," he says, stretching
his · arms wide. "So we're in Connecticut,
they're in China, and the conductor could
be in London for all we care."

This musician's technological fantasy
would be uriimaginable to most of
the . classical music world, struggling
to
maintain its relevance in a modern
re Jnore
age. So how did Blocker's grand vision
become a viable reality for the School
of Music, which only a decade ago was
a small and relatively poor, if prestigious,
conservatory? First, the extraordinary:
two years ago, a well-wooed, anonymous
donor dropped $100 million into the
School's lap. Then, once tuition had been
eliminated, applications doubled, the food
at receptions gourmeted, and the School
.
26
began to enjoy the compound benefits of
attracting the best young musicians in the
world, top faculty to teach them, and ever
more attention and contributions for an
array of bracingly visionary projects.

What remains astonishing is how
little impact this growth has had on the
opportunities available to undergraduate
musicians at Yale. Students attracted to
Yale College because of its outstanding
music program are still regularly_ denied
access to professional music teachers
. .
and concert spaces. . The Departtnent
of
Music, · whose · professors
hold
degrees in music theory and history
rather than performance, and which is
far less moneyed than the professional
school, is responsible for the College's
sixty music majors, every music class
available to undergraduates, and all of the
undergraduate ensembles, including the
Yale Symphony Orchestra, the Glee Club,
and the Concert Band. The University
provides . them little financial support:-
smaller ensembles· often struggle to raise
funds and ·the YSO resorts to charging
performers for their own travel expenses
. on foreign tours and selling ten-dollar
tickets to the annual Halloween show.

The University attaches enormous
value to promoting performances and
maintaining a vibrant music culture. Yet
as the School of Music rockets happily
·skyward, undergraduates who came to
Yale for its music find themselves low
on resources, short on institutional
committnent, and going nowhere.

obert Blocker, Dean of the Yale
~ :.tlO<)l of Music, is a heavyset South
Carolinian whose white hair has receded
far back from his ruddy face. He is a living
legend among musicians at Yale. Blocker
has the disarming manner of bygone
gentility; his face is a screen of optimism,
his voice full of throaty conviction.

In 2005, Blocker left the School
of Music after ten years as its dean, a
• •
departing champion who had enlarged
the once-paltry $30 mi11ion endowment
five times over. Today, the Robert Blocker
Room, a portrait and plasma screen-filled
space dedicated in his honor, sits beside
the Morse Recital Hall in Sprague Hall,
the red brick building on College and Wall
Streets whose renovation he oversaw in
2003. Blocker's tenure, marked by rapid
fundraising, facilities renovations, and an
accompanying influx of highly regarded
faculty and students, was considered
remarkably successful.

After Blocker left Yale to become
the Provost of Southern Methodist
University, the alma mater of Laura Bush
and Harriet Miers, he and Levin quietly
continued to communicate with a donor
. who had expressed interest in offering a
large gift to the University. He or she had
been impressed with the School of Music
under Blocker's stewardship, and Blocker
and Levin suggested that giving to the
comparatively small program would have
an outsized impact.

The payoff of their efforts was almost
inconceivable. Thomas Duffy, the School
of Music's acting dean, announced the
news on the stage of Sprague Hall on
October 28, 2005, moments before
students were set to perform a selection
of scenes from lesser-known operas. He
· explained that the school had received
$100 million from an anonymous donor
and that new students would never pay
-tuition again. After a gasp and euphoric
release from the assembled students,
faculty, and audience, Duffy took his seat
and let the opera begin.

A year ago, Robert Blocker returned
to Yale like a conquering Roman general .
At one performance across the hall from
the room that bears Blocker's name,
Aldo Parisot, a spry, octogenarian cellist
and longstanding member of the faculty, ·
turned around between pieces he was
conducting to sing the Dean's praises.
"It turns out our problem all these years
was money,:ll.. he shouted. '~d thanks to
Dean Blocker, we've solved it!"

Despite Parisot's accolades, the $100
million is less than it appears. According
to a Yale policy, only 5 percent of all
endowments in this case, $5 million-
can be spent in a given year. The total
annual tuition of the School of Music's
215 students is almost precisely $5
mmion. Though the school is no longer
'IHE NEW JOURNAL


responsible for the generous financial aid
packages it . distributed before the gift,
it has · more or less committed itself to
a single use of the $100 million, at least
for the time being. As Margot Fassler, a
former dean of the Institute of Sacred
Music and current School of Music
professor, admitted, ''You can dream,
but we're right on the edge of having it
all spent."

It is difficult to imagine a single
investment in the school that could have
achieved more objectives at one time.
Subsidizing tuition instantly benefited
students. "It was the decisive factor," says
pianist Jessica Osborne of her decision
to enroll at the School of Music in 2006.
"I owe a lot of debt. I went to Jnilliard
and Indiana, and neither was free." While
debt is hardly an anomaly among graduate
students of any stripe, the problem is
typically more severe for music students,
whose futures are particularly precarious.
Classical
musicians,
even
those
December 2007
from the most prestigious schools, are
not guaranteed a job, let alone a good
one. "Music is just
how shall I say
it-difficult," says Michael Friedmann, a
professor of theory and chamber music
at the school. "People go into music
because they can't imagine doing anything
~
different, not because it is necessarily a
lucrative career." Yet this problem is no
easier for students at Yale's renowned
Drama School, which can offer only
need-based tuition to its students, men
and women generally headed to uncertain
freelance careers in theater.

or is it so
different for graduates of the Divinity
School, which, despite its phenomenal
$300 mi11ion endowment,
does not
subsidize its students' full tuition.

The School of Music
saw free
enrollment as particularly nece sary for
its students because of the enormous
start-up cost of an instrument. A pianist
like Osbourne wi11 likely begin her career
with an additional thit ty thou and dol1ar
of debt in order to buy a decent piano.
Violinists and other string players might
spend forty to one hundred thousand
dollars on their instruments and regularly
maintain them at the cost of several
hundred dollars a year. And a young
musician, even a great one, will typically
have to scrounge up this capital while
working several freelance jobs, flying to
international competitions, and striving to
capture the attention of a major orchestra
or agent. ''If I'm at the right place at the
right time, hopefully someone hears me,"
said Osbourne. Until then, she shrugs, ''I
could probably make a decent amount
doing odd jobs."

ubsidizing tuition has also served
~ the University's grander strategy of
gaining international prominence
attracting more international students to
Yale. Juilliard, the world's mo t famous
con ervatory, has always cast a long
hadow o er the
chool of l\1usic's
27



**Title:  A $100 Million Gift and the Future of Music at Yale**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
' . 
Once the Yale School of Music renovates Hendrie Hall, students will be able to ride an elevator to practice rooms like this one. 
headquarters, Leigh Hall, from atop 
Manhattan's 
I jncoln 
Center. 
Highly 
endowed, located in the heart of New 
York City, it attracts top talents who are 
willing to pay. "How are you going to get 
the-attention of someone in Japan next to 
the Juilliard?" Duffy asks. 

A hundred million dollars might do it. 
It;1ternational media quickly picked up the 
story and the New York Times ran articles 
debating the gift's impact on the future of 
classical music. In the fall of 2005, the rate 
of applications to the School of Music 
doubled to nearly fifteen hundred a year. 
Its admit rate halved to 8 percent while its 
yield rose from 70 to 83 percent. Over 40 
percent of the School of Music's students 
are now international, far more than at 
any other school within the University. 
Aside from Yale, 
only a 
single 
conservatory in the country, the Curtis 
Institute in Philadelphia, offers free 
enrollment, and many music schools 
around the world are heading in the 
other direction. "Most of the prospective 
28 
' applicants we meet during our recruiting 
· efforts are already aware of the full-tuition 
scholarship, so it is usually not necessary 
to even mention it," said Daniel Pellegrini, 
the School's director of admissions. Levin 
himself has noted the effect, saying that 
"free tuition has made possible attracting 
international students who would not 
have considered Yale without strong 
financial support." 

To some degree, the quest for 
international students is a search for quality . 
musicians. "Our goal has always been to 
find the best and brightest in the world 
and bring them to Yale," Blo<::ker said. 
"There's no question that the standard is 
different," said Friedmann of the post-
donation admissions. "The quality of 
every single instrument 
they're more 
polished, they're more proficient. We have 
some superstars here. This was out of the 
question in the past." But it is impossible 
to ignore the School of Music's place in 
Yale's ongoing embrace of globalization. 
The gift has enabled the University to 
expand an already impressive collection 
of partnerships with institutions around 
the globe, among them a concert series 
with the Royal Academy in London and 
a slate of programs in Asia (especially 
China) 
that includes 
this 
summer's 
Cultural Olympiad. Levin is confident 
that these collaborations will raise the 
University's profile 
"in the music world, 
but also more generally." 

Other 
perks 
of 
the 
increased 
endowment have come effortlessly. ''All 
these things start drawing togethet:," said 
Blocker. ''You get a big gift and you have 
resources that enable you to see how 
those oppor tunities might open up." The 
School of Music was able to take over 
Yale's Collection of Musical Instruments 
and began to hold classes and concerts 
with 
students 
playing on Wagner's 
piano and 17th-Century virginals. In July, 
there w.iJl be a musical theater and jazz 
program for New Haven public schools. 
The School is holding a yearlong series 
of concerts by students and faculty at 
'!'HE NEW JOURNAL 



--- Page 29 ---

Carnegie Hall in New York 
already the 
subject of multiple rave reviews by the 
New York Times 
presenting students 
with life-changing opportunities to be 
seen and heard. 

Hendrie Hall is the last of the School 
Music's 
unrenovated, 
run-down 
behemoths. This relic, from an era in which 
Yale was, as Fa~sler described it, "the land 
of the peeling paint," is the School's last 
egregiously necessary project. Once it is 
completed, the school's next aim appears 
to be to raise enough money to award 
significant cost-of-living stipends to each 
of its students. "I would imagine another 
$100 to $200million will solve the stipend 
issue," said Duffy. Blocker who in 
his time at Yale has brought in at least 
$200 million in endowment money is 
a born fundraiser. When I asked him 
what motivates a donor to give $100 
million to the school, he smiled at me 
ingratiatingly and said, "I think there's the 
same motivation for a young alum such as 
yourself. When you graduate, Mitch, start 
giving right away." 

ndergraduates lost their claim to all 
__.. of this in 1940. The School of Music, 
which was founded in 1894 through a gift 
from some of Yale's great .19th-century 
benefactors, the Battells, initially awarded 
degrees 
to 
undergraduates, 
doctoral 
students, and performers. Music schools, 
however, are notorious 
~esspools of 
acrimony, especially between professors 
of competing disciplines, . and Yale's 
was beset by frequent complaints from 
undergraduates, historians, and theorists, 
who felt they were underappreciated next 
to the performers. Luther N oss, a School 
of Music dean in the 19 50s, who later 
becameitsurtofficialcourthistorian,recalls 
the state of the split of 1939. "For over 
a year there had been audible grumblings 
in the Yale College commUnity over what 
was felt to be, rightly or wrongly, the 
School's lack of interest and cooperation 
in tending to the academic and practical 
musical needs of the undergraduates." 
David Stanley Smith, the dean at the time, 
recommended that the School of Music 
satisfy its undergraduates by expanding its 
library of phonograph records, enlarging 
its faculty, and permitring students to 
study a broader liberal arts curriculum. 
Instead, 
Yale 
President 
Charles 
Seymour established the Department 
December 2007 
Robert Blocker is dean of the School of Music 
of Music, moving the scholars and their 
graduate students, along with all the 
undergraduates, to the new department. 
The professional school was left, as 
it remains, a home for professors of 
performance, composers, and graduate 
musicians. Even today, few will argue 
with the separation. ''It's absolutely a 
good division," said Daniel Harrison, the 
current chair of the music department. 
At schools without separate departments, 
Harrison said, "the scholarly components 
are generally undernourished compared to 
performers. They're the breadwinners." 

One irony it that, despite the firewall 
between the two schools, outsiders are 
generally unaware of the difference; 
in the weeks after the School of Music 
received its $100 million, the Department 
of Music fielded dozens of calls from 
prospective applic~ts confusing it with · 
the professional school. The department 
has 
also 
encountered 
significant 
fundraising difficulties now that donors 
mistakenly believe that Yale's entire music 
program is already fabulously wealthy. 
In reality, the department is by far 
the less wealthy of the two. ''Financially, 
we're a poor stepsister to the School," 
said Harrison. The music department 
enjoys only a tiny piece of the Uni ersity's 
endowment and must rely mainly on the 
generosity of the central administration 
and on targeted grant for its research 
and special projects. Sarah Wei s, an 
assistant professor of ethnomu icology, 
described the "treasure hunt' of winning 
University grants, petitioning the central 
administration, asking the department, 
and discovering hidden pockets of 
resources to fund projects, events, and 
performances. "It's one of the things I 
like best about Yale," she said. "It means 
that no one has ultimate control over 
something except the person who puts 
it together." A further irony: while the 
School of Music made news worldwide for 
granting free enrollment to its students, it 
has always been de rigueur for the University 
to award full tuition and cost-of-living 
stipends to every one of the more than 
three hundred doctoral students it admits 
annually, six to twelve of whom are music 
theorists and historians. 

The greatest irony, however, is the 
fate of undergraduate performers, music 
majors or otherwise, who are drawn to 
Yale by its well-deserved reputation for 
a rich musical culture. Overseen by the 
Department of Music, undergraduates 
have limited interaction with the wealthy 
professional school and soon discover 
that too few of the be,o.efits trickle 
down to their own educations in music. 
Nearly seventy years after their secession 
from an uncaring professional school, 
undergraduate musicians are still seeking 
the respect they deserve. 


--- Page 30 ---

onsider undergraduate ensembles 
-at Yale. Junior Kate Swisher is 
assistant conductor of the Davenport 
Pops Orchestra. The group, founded 
by students in the spring of 2005 and 
modestly supported by Davenport College, 
is an integral part of what Harrison called 
the "fairly developed spectrum of music 
at Yale." An upstart group just as the Yale 
Symphony Orchestra, Yale Concert Band, 
and Glee Club once were, the Davenport 
Pops offers someone like Swisher, who 
hopes to pursue a career in performance, 
invaluable opportunities to conduct a full 
orchestra. Unfortunately, Yale offers her 
hardly anywhere to do it. 

"The School of Music won't rent 
space to undergrads," Swisher said. ''If 
you want to perform in Woolsey, it eats up 
your entire Sudler fund for the semester." 
The cost to reserve Woolsey for a night is, 
in fact, closer to 1,800, far more than the 
five-hundred-dollar Sudler grants available 
for student concerts. Battell Chapel is not 
much 
c~eaper. Swisher addressed her 
criticism toward the University: "You 
want us to perform, you want to support 
30 
• • 
. 
Some of Yale's musicians rehearse on the stage at Woolsey Hall . 
the arts, but you won't give us a space to 
perform or rehearse." 

Though the Yale Symphony Orchestra 
is 
one of 
the best undergraduate 
orchestras in the country and a group that 
several undergraduate musicians identify 
as the reason they chose to attend Yale, it 
does not fare much better. The University 
generally supplies around 30 percent of 
YSO's annual budget of approximately 
$100,000, which does not include travel 
expenses. 'We are expected to raise money 
for ourselves," said Toshiyuki Shimada, the 
orchestra's professional conductor. ''We 
have to rent Woolsey Hall, believe it or 
not." Funds for YSO come from benefit 
concerts, regular fundraising, and ticket 
revenues. Shimada said that Harrison 
is "very helpful spiritually, morally. But 
we do not get a tremendous amount of 
money fror•• the departtnent." 

Shimada and his orchestra would like 
to tour annually, but the group can only 
travel once every other year; fundraising 
can pay for only so many $250,000 tours 
" 
to Europe. Student volunteers must 
-
pay out of their own pockets to travel, 
something many Yale a cappella groups, 
( 
credit 
for 
magnificent 
facility 
renovations the school has enjoyed. Weiss 
insists, moreover, that the University is 
far more eager to fund undergraduates 
e 
ut 
orm) ou want to 
-........ 
ou woni 
• zve us a 
well-endowed and profitable, would never 
dream of doing. 

ln'theory, Yale does care about these 
ensembles. According to Duffy, the 
current director of university bands, 
"Richard Levin is a tremendous supporter 
of music." It was Levin, after all, who 
played an indispensable role in steering 
the $100 mi11ion toward the School of 
Music, Levin who can take substantial 
'' 
than graduate students or their professors 
in the music department. It is unlikely, 
however, that the University's substantial 
fundraising apparatus, currently engaged in 
a multibillion dollar capital campaigri' the 
very apparatus that was able to launch the 
School of Music to the sky 
would not be 
able to stop charging its ensembles for a 
concert space that it allows the New Haven 
Symphony Orchestra to use for free. 
'IHE NEW JOURNAL 



**Title:  Untitled**
**Author: Mitchell Reich**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"
he more widespread complaint among undergraduates is 
how few music faculty are available to offer them private 
lessons. An undergraduate voice student, who asked to remain 
anonymous for fear of harming her relationship with several 
campus ensembles, was surprised to learn upon her arrival at 
Yale that there simply were not enough faculty members to 
teach her. ''When I came to Yale; I was under the impression 
that I would study with someone on the faculty. That's kind of 
wha.t they told me," she said. 

Private lessons for undergraduates are run by .the .School 
of Music in cooperation with the Departtnent of Music. Yale 
has only hired faculty to teach · highly skilled undergraduate 
pianists, violinists, and cellists; each year, professors may 
choose to take on a handful of exceptionally talented students 
of other instruments, but the numbers are always small. These 
lessons are apportioned on the basis of auditions and offered 
for course credit; students who fail to get a professor may pay 
graduate students for not-for-credit lessons. 

Though this voice studentis among the few undergraduates 
in the Schola Cantorum, a well-paid, highly selective, 
predominantly graduate voice ensemble, she was assigned 
a graduate student and was dissatisfied with the result. 
"Sometimes you have a teacher who isn't very interested 
in teaching," she said. "I had a teacher last year who was 
notorious for that." While graduate students at the School of 
Music, especially in the wake of the donation, are among the 
best young musicians in the world, they are often unqualified 
to instruct top-level undergraduates, some of whom will 
attend conservatories themselves after graduation. Of the 
approximately ninety voice students who apply for lessons 
each term, only about 15 may expect to receive lessons with 
faculty members. In other instruments, particularly woodwinds 
and brass, the number is closer to zero. 

Sophomore Daniel Schlosberg, a top-level composition 
student and pianist who studies with Wei-Yi Yang, a School of 
Music faculty member, has noticed similar flaws in the lessons 
program. "There inay be some grad students who are good, 
but it depends, and they cycle through so quickly," he said. ''I 
believe they should provide professors for undergraduates." 

The composition program, in which Schlosberg said available 
courses are minimal and private lessons extremely rare, is 
similarly limited for undergrads, as is the conducting program, 
which, according to Swisher, has only two faculty conductors 
despite the fact that "there's so many of us who want to 
d 
con uct. 
·u .... School of Music is the reason that many of these 
undergraduates come . to Yale in the first place. "Can 
you imagine," Margot Fassler asks, "what the musical culture 
would be without the School of Music?" Indeed, the spillover 
effects undergraduates enjoy by studying beside the School 
of Music are numerous: the School of Music holds four to 
five concerts on any given week; its graduate students fill the 
ranks of the Ya!_e Symphony Orchestra, Concert Band, and 
Glee Club, as well as countless other smaller ensembles like 
the Schola Cantorum, the Camerata, chamber groups, and 
shared graduate-undergraduate music classes. The School of 
Music is not only responsible for most of the lessons that 
December 2007 
• 
undergraduate music students receive 
and even the most inept 
students receive the very best graduate students as teachers 
but 
also for the use of top-notch practice spaces. When the School 
renovates Hendrie Hall, Concert Band musicians will no longer 
need to lug their instruments up six flights of stairs because the 
building will finally have an elevator. 

These benefits, however, are no more than spillover, focused on 
the School of Music and largely peripheral to the needs of Yale's 
undergraduate musicians. Those priorities are clear enough. ''We 
teach all applied music for undergraduates," Blocker said. "The 
School of Music has an integral responsibility and committnent to 
this." The School of Music undertook this responsibility and now, 
finally enjoying the use of its unprecedented resources, has let its 
contribution to undergraduates remain static in order to direct its 
resources outward, fighting for global attention and attracting an 
ever-finer crop of international graduate students. The University 
itself, which demonstrated its substantial commitment to music by 
supporting the School of Music's growth, has remained notably 
frugal in its support of undergraduate ensembles. Some of the 
very best young adult performers in the country already study 
here; why should their education be any less than exemplary? 

The contrast between the institution's commitment and the 
resources it offers is stark, and no one wants it this way. Levin 
has suggested that the University will increase the number of 
students taught by music faculty. For his part, Blocker sings the 
right tune: ''I believe firmly that those of us who are privileged by 
the opportnnities provided for us have an obligation to provide 
opportunity for other people," he said. "What a great joy and 
opportunity it is to have, in the hands of a young adult, music, 
which is able to bridge cultures like nothing else." Undergraduates 
will believe him once they see a bridge or two of their own. 

Mitchell Reich, a junior in Pierson College is an associate editor qf 'INJ. 
31 


**Title: Truth and Reconciliation**
**Author: Pria Anand**
**Page number(s): 32-33**

FEATURE 
Truth and Reconciliation 
The Artemis Project archives individual stories of national violence. 

I
n 2004, months before she was pan-
lyzed in a car accident in Sierra Leone, 
Artemis Christodulou '()() realized 
that everything she'd worked to collect 
over the past twO years could disappear. 
All 83 pages of inmates' essays from a 
Sierra Leonean prison, where many died 
without ever ;having been convicted; all 
13 faces on a painting bearing a Sierra 
Leonean flag, loolcing to a future of good 
roads and streetlights; all of the stamps, 
poems, plays, and sculptures from com-
batants and civilians that bad borne wit-
ness to the transition of a nation. 

In a conversation with Yale English 
32 
By Pria Anand 
and Comparative Literature Professor 
Geoffrey Hartman, Christodulou dis-
cussed her work with Sierra Leone's Truth 
and Reconciliation Committee. She was 
about to take a semester off from gradu-
ate school to run the TRC's National Vi-
sion Project, an attempt to document the 
aspirations of Sierra Leone's citizens for 
the future of their country, devastated by 
eleven years of civil war. The tWO won-
dered whether any archive of testimonies 
from truth commissions across the world 
existed. She ascertained that none did. 

As she was about to leave for Sierra 
Leone for the last rime, Ch.ristodulou laid 
the groundwork for establishing such an 
archive at Yale, contacting transitional jus-
rice experts and law school faculty. These 
efforts, and Christodulou's respect for the 
individual stories of national tragedy, are 
at the roor,.of Yale's campaign to memo-
rialize the global devastation of genocide, 
civil war, and internal oppression. Arte-
mis Christodulou would not return to 
Yale, but her name, like these stories, is 
immortalized in the Artemis Project. 

E
telle Higonnet '00 LAW 'OS and 
Alexi Zervos '99 LAW '05, twO of 
the Project's founding members, believe 
THE NEW JOURNAL 

that the Project began in spirit, at least, in 
2003, when they traveled to Sierra Leone 
with Christodulou to work on issues of 
transitional justice. Although Christodu-
lou had already done similar work for 
the International Center for Transitional 
. 
' 
Justice as well as for truth commissions 
in South America and Indonesia, this first 
trip to Sierra Leone cemented her com-· 
mitment to truth commissions and drew 
her back just one year later. 

The accident happened in May 2004, 
while Christodulou was heading the Na-
tional Vision Project in Sierra Leone with 
Zervos's sister, Anthea. The two were 
driving from Makeni to a potential exhibi-
tion site in Freetown for the project, anq 
they were soon evacuated to. a hospital in . 
Paris. While Anthea Zervos recovered, 
Christodulou remained in a coma, and 
when she awoke,. she had suffered seri-
ous brain damage. It was about a month . 
after the accident, remembers Higonnet, 
that her friends realized that Christodulou 
might not be able to make a full recovery, 
and Alexi Zervos, Higonnet, and Daniel 
Feldman GRD '08 began to . talk about 
creating an initiative at Yale to honor 
Christodulou and her work. When Pro-
fessor Hartinan told the students about 
his and Christodulou's conversation about 
a universal archive, they found a focus for 
their project. 

Since its official launch at a meeting 
of Yale librarians, faculty, and Christodu-
lou's former colleagues in June 2005, the 
Artemis Project· has sought to create a 
central archive for mat~rials collected by 
the world's 25 truth conimissions, orga-
nizations that pursue reconciliation after 
periods of internal conflict. It .aims to 
publicly preserve both victims' and per-
petrators' stories as a record of a history 
that might otherwise be too easily forgot-
ten. 

Because they document violent politi-
cal transitions, the materials the Artemis 
Project seeks to archive are often at risk. 
"Sometimes, it's as simple as someone 
setting a match to some boxes, and hun-
dreds of testimonials are destroyed," ex-
plains Julie Carney '08, the Project's cur-
rent student director. "One of the central 
ironies is that these stories are told so 
-
that they can be on the historical record, 
and instead, they often end up in a base-
ment somewhere." While the National 
Vision Project was exhibited internation-

ally, many TRC materials are now collect-
ing dust in university sto~age rooms, and 
scores of other truth commission docu-
ments, which are never removed from 
their nations of origin, have met an even 
less certain fate. The Artemis Project 
seeks to prevent such losses by providing 
an online repository that will persist long 
after truth commissions consider their 
work complete · one that is accessible to 
everyone, from victims to human rights 
professionals. 

"These documents should be available 
to the world; they are about crimes against 
humanity, not against Sierra Leoneans or 
black South Africans," says Higonnet,. 
"Everyone should know and everyone 
.should care about it." 

The challenge the Artemis Project 
now faces is how to ensure that these 
documents, which capture SOf!le of the 
most significant moments in global his-
tory, can remain permanendy . available 
without compromising the confideritia4ty 
of the individuals whose testimo~als ~ey · 
exhibit. "'~hese people have put their lives 
on die line, have risked eve 
· g, to tell 
the truth about the past," says Higonnet. 
"The Artemis Project is about honoring 
truth commissions, and about honoring 
the people who testified, which is what 
Artemis wanted." 

Those invested in the Project also be-
lieve that it is also inexorably linked to the 
Yale community. ''This is something that 
makes sense to do as a student, and as a 
student at Yale," says Jessica Heyman '07, 
a former student director. She aut ibutes 
the importance of operating the Project 
through Yale to the resources of the Yale 
University Library and to the potential 
power of a Yale community made aware 
of wartime atrocities. The Project now 
functions in two capacities: a Yale out-
reach branch that Heyman describes as 
"the Artemis Project student initiative" 
and the Artemis Project archive itself. So 
far, the organization has focused most of 
its work on the former. During the 2005-
2006 s~hool year, the Project hosted two 
international conferences, one with truth 
commission managers and archivists and 
the second with journalists from nations 
undergoing political transition. In spring 
2006, the Project received a grant to host 
a speaker series with truth commission 
scholars and organized an undergraduate 
political science seminar on truth com-
tn1SS10ns. 

The archive itself is still in the process 
of materializing; its structure will be final-
ized this December. "It has been a very 
slow process," Carney explains. The Ar-
temis Project's student participants have 
met with members of the Human Rights 
Project to discuss the Project's archival 
practicalities 
how materials should be 
digitized, how they should be solicited. 
This fall, the Artemis Project used grant 
funding to hire a consulting archivist 
from the Yale University Library, who 
conducted a research trip to Peru and Si-
erra Leone in November. The informa-
tion she gathered about truth commission 
documents in these countries will soon 
be synthesized into a report that will be 
shared with the Artemis Project commit-
ononn 
tee, as well as with archivists working on 
similar projects at other institutions. "Ex-
aminations of the kinds of records that 
were generated by both commissions, and 
how they have been preserved and 111ade 
available since the work of the commis-
sion was completed, will provide us the 
information we need to deliver them digi-
tally to the research community," explains 
Christine Weideman, the deputy director 
of Manuscripts and Archives at the Yale 
University Library. 

The Project's website is similarly in 
33 



**The Artemis Project**
**Author: Pria Anand**
**Page number(s): 34-35**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
•
flux, with most of the links still under 
construction. Students are still debating 
· the benefits of several different models 
for the digital archive. Among them is one 
that Heyman refers to as a ''Y ouTube for 
human rights," where contributing coun-
tries can simply upload digitized docu-
ments to a central database. Another is 
known as the "S.WA.T. team approach," 
which would be operated by emissaries 
sent by the Artemis Project to work along-
side locals to help digitize documents on 
site. Both models respect the autonomy 
of the contributing truth commissions, a 
priority of the Project's founding mem-
bers that has persisted over the last three 
years. 


n 1999, Human Rights Watch had al-
_re: nu recorded tens of thousands of 
deaths, over 3 million displacements, and 
untold numbers of rapes and abductions 
during Sierra Leone's eleven- year civil 
war. These numbers would swell over the 
next three years, but amidst this strife and 
turmoil, the nation took its first step to-
ward healing by establishing a peace treaty 
between the government and the rebel 
forces. The peace treaty created the Sierra 
Leone Truth and Reconciliation Com-
mission to bear witness to the slaughter 
and wrongdoings of the previous decade. 
Even as the country moved forward, it 
was determined to remember its past. 
In December 2003, the TRC asked 
Christodulou, who had worked as a re-
searcher for the Commission for several 
months, to launch its National Vision 
Project with her friend Anthea Zervos, 
By the time Christodulou discussed the 
lack of a universal archive for truth com-
mission documents with Professor Hart-
man, she had already accepted the job. 
As a student of comparative literature, 
Christodulou was focused on literature 
as it related to communal memory, and 
it was this interest that compelled her to 
continue her work for the 'IRC. Chris-
todulou and Zervos began by fundrais-
ing together in New York City, and then 
traveled to Sierra Leone to start their field 
work in earnest. The idea was simple, says 
Zervos: ''You cannot change anything 
until you can first imagine it, until you can 
. 
b 
fu 
" 
u nagme a etter 
ture. 

The TRC ultimately published three 
volumes of findings in 2007, comprising 
34 
not only documents from the 
National Vision Project's col-
lection, but also recommenda-
tions, timelines, stories, and a 
list of victims. Christodulou's 
2003 .research for the TRC and 
the images she collected for 
the National Vision Project in 
2004 feature prominendy. 
As Christodulou's friends 
strive to bring the Artemis 
Project to life, ·the Project's 
namesake retains a palpable 
influence. "Her work, her em-
phasis on culturally sensitive 
responses to atr<,:>eity, and her 
unbridled enthusiasm for help-
ing people she had never met 
before direcdy motivated the 
Project," Feldman .says. "I've 
often said that if the accident 
hadn't occurred, Artemis her-
self would have led this proj-
ect and would have undoubt-
edly achieved far more than 
we have in three years." 
Still; says her father, "Now, we have 
a different Artemis. We can't pretend it 
never happened." 


fter returning to America, Chris-
todulou stayed in a care center in 
. Massachusetts for almost three years. 
Although she remains paralyzed and 
unable to speak, she was finally able to 
move home this September. Her family 
has specially outfitted a room with a lift, 
seating frame, and other equipment now 
necessary for her daily life. Some days she 
is well enough to spend up to an hour 
reading friends' e-mails and updates, of-
ten about Sierra Leone. "She likes read-
ing about this part of her life; she really 
enjoys that she did something that did 
good for humans. That part of her hasn't · 
changed," her father says. ''I feel that she 
understands this, that she remembers. I 
know she does." 


The Christodulous now devote their 
lives to Christodulou's comfort. Because 
she requires constant supervision, they 
stay awake with her on nights when the 
full-tirne caretakers they've hired fail to 
show up, help her exercise under the di-
rection of a physical therapist, and drive 
her to the mall sometimes for a change 
of scenery. Most recently, she returned 
to Massachusetts General Hospital for 
•• 
an operation to lengthen a tendon in her 
left elbow that her father hopes will allow 
her to rest her hand rather than keeping 
it clenched to her chest; now, she is grap-
pling with both the pain of the surgery 
and a constant nausea left by the anti-
inflammatory she was prescribed. The 
doctor suggested that Christodulou take 
Motrin with milk instead, to ease the pain, 
but her father doesn't think it will solve 
anything. "Every day she keeps crying, 
and every day we get some new medicine 
to help her," he says. 

He wonders if she might be grieving 
her mental limitations as well as her phys-
ical pain. "Sometirnes she can remember 
the past. When I talk to her, she closes 
her eyes and I can tell that she's follow-
ing the conversation, but a few minutes 
later, it's gone," he explains. "Such a mind 
like she had, how can so much be lost? 
It's so unbelievable. It's so painful." Chris-
todulou had a 3.87 GPA at Yale, he says. 
She was a candidate for the Marshall and 
Rhodes scholarships. She spoke English, 
French, Greek, and German fluently, and 
during her time in Sierra Leone,. she was 
able to pick up Krio. 

Most' importantly, while she worked 
for the 'IRC, Ch.ristodulou made genuine 
contributions toward national reconcilia-
'11-.1 E NEW JOURNAL 


--- Page 35 ---

tion. Her father recalls the stories she told 
him of enemies who had been brought 
together by her work, who'd once hated 
one another · and were now conununicat-
ing. Part of what drew Christodulou to 
truth commission work was her deter-
mination to preserve a full spec.trum of 
perspectives. Unlike courts, which are 
more focused on reparations, truth com- . 
missions catalogue perpetrators' perspec-
tives as well as victitns', and while court 
testimonies are often closed to. the com-
munity, truth commissions intend to im-
mortalize the stories they uncover in the 
public record. 

The loss of such materials is irrevo-
cable. In a nation such as Sierra Leone, 
with an estitnated adult literacy rate of 
just 35 percent, the pieces collected by the 
TRC represent the only voice many citi-
zens had in the healing process. "People 
who had nothing gave eve 
· g 
their 
time, their resources, their energy, to this 
restoration of Sierra Leone," says Zervos, 
who believes it is impossible to overesti-
mate the testimonies' significance to the 
country's future. "People could not look 
forward without looking back. The con-
flict has entirely shaped people's ability to 
think about the future.'' 

At Yale, these stories have permanent-
ly shaped the students who have worked 
to preserve them. Unlike many student 
causes, the Artemis Project remains in-
tegral to many of its members' lives. 
Alexi Zervos describes himself as an 
"unofficial advisor" to the Project, while 
Higonnet says that sh~ is in constant e-
mail contact with current particpants and 
library staff Feldman still contributes to 
reports and grant statements produced by 
project members. "It's almost addictive," 
says Heyman who is continuing. her work 
for the Artemis Project in Sierra Leone. 
The founders, many of whom have also 
had the opportunity to work for truth 
commissions abroad, are motivated by 
the significance of the individual . stories 
they've encountered, those pieces of his-
tory catalogued and sornetimes lost in the 
process of making a.II).ends. "They are the 
history, these untold stories that haven't 
been written in textbooks," says Carney. 
"They are a way for a society as a whole 
to move forward." 

ccording to Heyman, everyone who 
· · 
in truth commission 
December 2007 
work has heard at least one story that 
sticks. She encountered hers in 2005, 
when she was working for the post-geno-
cide National Unity and Reconciliation 
Commission in Rwanda. The man whose 
story touched Heyman the most deeply, 
she says, had come home from his job at 
a Muslim radio station to find his village 
slaughtered. "It seemed almost theatrical, 
the way you'd ask someone a question 
and get such a horror story in response," 
she says. "Someone works late for a day 
and comes home to find their entire fam-
ily dead behind a latrine, or that they are 
the only one left alive in their village." 

After the reconciliation, the man, a mem-
ber of the Tutsi ethnic group victimized 
during the genocide, became engaged to ~ 
Hutu woman. "His priest asked him, 'Do 
you really trust this ·woman? She'll kill 
you in your sleep,"' Heyman remembers. 
( 
as 
soJJteone 
orror stor 
ized by the war. "It was heart-wrench-
ing," she says. When she and Christodu-
lou walked past, they were unsure where 
to look 
they worried that staring would 
make the residents self-conscious, but 
wondered whether ignoring them would 
be worse. 

When Christodulou focused her TRC 
research on these amputations, Higonnet 
asked her how she managed to grapple 
with such devastating tragedy, day in and 
day out. "Tears welled up in her eyes, but 
she didn't cry," Higonnet remembers. 
"She just said, 'It's the right thing to do."' 

All of the Artemis Project's founding 
members tell similar stories chronicling 
Christodulou's incredible dedication. Al-
though her father used to ask himself 
whether he and his wife should have 
stopped their daughter from returning 
to Sierra Leone, whether he could have 
a 
an 
'' 
zn re 
onse) 
esszca 
(( omeone wo~ 
ate or 
an cotnes ome to n t eir entire 
amz 
ea 
zn 
The two married regardless, and he now 
works as a journalist for the BBC. "He 
faced a lot of opposition in practicing his 
own reconciliation," she says. 

Higonnet's story comes from the time 
she spent in Sierra Le_one in 2003, work-
ing for a special court with Alexi Zervos 
and sleeping beside Christodulou under 
a single spotty mosquito net. Although 
many of Higonnet's experiences in the 
court are bound by confidentiality, she 
is plagued by the memory of what she 
calls the "signature atrocity'' of the Sierra 
Leone civil war: the legendary "amputa-
tions" performed by the Rebel United 
Front, one of the warring parties. 

The rebels cut off their · hostages' 
hands, arms, noses, lips, ears 
tactics that 
typified the sheer brutality and lasting im-
pact of the war. Higonnet describes art iv-
ing in Sierra Leone for the first time and 
being dt iven past an amputee camp where 
she saw even the smallest children vicrirn-
a atn:ne. '' 
prevented the accident, he now realizes 
that nothing they could have done would 
have stopped her from doing the work 
she thought was important 
she was too 
touched by the tragedies she'd encoun-
tered to do anything but help. 

"It's hard to describe how enormous-
ly vibrant she was," Alexi Zervos muses. 
"She had this enormous passion for the 
truth commissions, and for the victims. 
She was simply inspirational." 

I .ike the truth commissions she was 
committed to, Christodulou tried to heal 
nations with stories. Ironically, her own 
story has become just one of the count-
less individual tragedies the Artemis Proj-
ect is determined to remember. 

For everyone involved, says Zervos, 
'".,.....I'his project is important because it 
bears her name." 

Pria Ana11d is a sophomore i11 Berke~ College. 
35 


--- Page 36 ---

**Ketamine Experiments at Yale**
**Author:  Rick Chandler**
**Page number(s): 36**

• •
I<etati1l1le expe ~·UL...L ents use human subjects. 
ick 
andler 
merican radical and psychedelic 
drug pioneer Timothy Leary 
.. '-'nee said, "I am 100 percent in 
favor of the intelligent use of drugs and 
1 ,000 percent against the thoughtless use 
of them, whether caffeine or LSD." A 
similar sentiment might have been in the 
mind of Yale junior George Aki Nikolaidis 
when he volunteered to take small doses 
of the hallucinogen ketamine last July as 
part of a controlled experiment run by 
the Yale School of Medicine. 

"I started it mainly because I was 
36 
By 
curious in the research. Research in drugs -
I had a serious interest in," ·says Nikolaidis . 
"It appealed to me that I could experience 
a hard drug in a really safe, controlled 
setting." 

The study, which took place at the 
neurology department of the West 
Haven VA Medical Center in West Haven, 
Connecticut and was conducted by Yale 
professors, is part of an ongoing project 
to use ketamine to revolutionize the 
treatment of schizophrenia. 

''In the late 1980s and to this day," 
-
says John Krystal, lead investigator on 
the experiment, Robert L. McNeil, Jr. 
Professor of Clinical Pharmacology, 
and deputy_ chairman for research for 
the Department of Psychiatry, "our 
group of investigators at Yale studying 
schizophrenia were among the first 
groups in Connecticut and, in some cases, 
the world, to prescribe new medication 
treatments that were introduced for 
schizophrenia." 

Over a period of two weeks, Nikolaidis 
made four trips to the West Haven VA 
THE NEW JOURNAL 



**Title: Yale's Ketamine Research**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
-
facility to participate in the double-blind 
study. With electrodes on his head, an IV in 
his left arm to draw blood, and another in 
his right arm to administer a combination 
of saline solution, ketamine, and nicotine, 
Yale researchers recorded his brain waves 
using an electroencephalogram (EEG) 
test and monitored his vital signs. Twice 
he was given a placebo; twice he was given 
an injection of ketamine, once by itself 
and once in combination with nicotine. 
''Words 
couldn't 
describe 
what 
happened," Nikolaidis says. ''I thought 
that when it was over I would be able 
to describe it to people, but I found 
myself complet~ly unable to describe my 
experience. It was much more on a tactile 
level than cerebral 
I just mean cerebral 
in the sense of being rational." 
December 2007 

His 
difficulty 
explaining 
the 
experience is not unusual: ketamine, 
originally invented bf pharmacist Calvin 
Stevens in 1962 as an anesthetic, has 
strong dissociative properties, affecting 
both the hippocampus (a region of the 
brain associated with memory) and the 
prefrontal cortex (associated with abstract 
thought). While it has a number of 
medical uses, ketamine has been known to 
induce near-death experiences, cognitive 
distortion, hallucinations, and the so-
called "I<-Hole," a state of drug-induced 
paralysis. "It was definitely interesting," 
says Nikolaidis. 
By tripping on ketamine, Nikolaidis 
may have participated in some of the 
most important psychopharmacological 
research 
in 
decades. 
These 
tests, 
conducted by the Yale School of Medicine 
on otherwise healthy subjects, may be the 
key to revolutionary new treatments for 
illnesses ranging from clinical depression 
to schizophrenia. One student's K-Hole 
may be several million's door to a life of 
relative normalcy. 
ale's ketamine research dates back 
to the late 1980s and has been 
innovative in a number of ways. When 
used to treat mental disorders such as 
schizophrenia, ketamine targets the N-
methyl-D-aspartate 
MDA) glutamate 
receptor, a chemical receptor in the 
brain associated with the coordination 
of different neural networks. Krystal 
explains that all of the treat• nents that 
are approved current! 
by the Federal 




**Ketamine: A New Hope for Treating Schizophrenia and Depression?**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 38**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
Food and Drug Administration for the 
Depression 
Research 
Program, 
has 
treatment of schizophrenia work through . been conducting his own research on 
blockading one type of receptor target 
the effects of ketamine on treatment-
in the bra1n for the chemical messenger 
resistant depression 
depression . which, 
. 
dopamine. He says he and his colleagues 
much like the schizophrenia Krystal is 
and were "convinced that advances in 
studying, does not respond to drugs that 
the treatment of schizophrenia were 
target dopamine and serotonin receptors. 
not going to come from drugs primarily 
"I think Yale, along with the National 
targeting the dopamine-2 receptor." 
Institute of Mental Health, is really one 
Building off a body of earlier work 
of the only places ·doing this kind of 
on schizophrenia, . including the use of 
research~" Sanacora says. 
phencylidine, another drug which affects 
. Sanacora, who also ran his study out of 
NMDA 
receptors, ·and 
preliminary 
the WestHaven VAhospitalandconducted 
work by Yale researchers on novel drug 
it on ten clinically depressed subjects over 
treatments in the late 1980s, Krystal and 
the course of a year, reported dramatic 
his colleagues have used ketamine to 
findings, After . a single administration 
simulate some symptoms of schizophrenia 
of ketamine, seventy percent of patients 
in · healthy patients like Nikolaidis. Post-
reported that their symptoms improved, 
mortem analyses of brain tissue have 
with one-third of patients reporting that · 
indicated that glutamine receptors 
the 
their symptoms disappeared completely 
same receptors ketamine affects? causing 
for days or even weeks. "Obviously," says 
its users to get, as Nikolaidis puts it, "really 
Sanacora, "it's been an exciting turn for 
fucked up" 
are naturally abnormal in 
the field." Though one patient had to be 
schizophrenic patients. A paper Krystal 
removed from the study because of an 
arid several colleagues published in 
adverse reaction to the placebo, Sanacora 
2003 posed the question: If ketamine 
claims that the study has not included 
can be used to induce the symptoms of 
any other negative reactions. Pfizer has 
non-paranoid schizophrenia in healthy · . already presented data on a drug that 
patients, might it be possible to develop 
uses a mechanism similar to the one Yale 
an 'anti-ketamine' to reverse those same 
effects in mentally . ill patients? "The 
full range of benefits and limitations of 
glutamatergic treatments remains to be 
demonstrated;' Krystal and his colleagues 
concluded, "but the promise of these 
agents constitutes one of several hopeful 
new avenues for . addressing the distress 
and disability that still often plagues those 
individuals suffering from schizophrenia." 
Researchers hope that experiments like 
the one performed on Nikolaidis will 
shed light on these avenues. 
Other 
scientists · are 
also 
using 
ketam.ine 
to treat mental disorders. 
George Sanacora, associate professor 
of psychiatry and director of the Yale


researchers have been studying. Sanacora 
is optimistic that such a drug might be 
available on the market within the next 
. four years. "It would be a completely 
novel treatment for depression," he says. 
he potential use of ketamine in 
prescription 
anti-depressants and 
anti-psychotics, as well as its experimental 
use 
on 
healthy 
volunteer 
research 
subjects, 
conflicts with the public's 
perception of the drug as a dangerous, 
recreational psychedelic. While ketamine 
has been used since its inception as an · 
anesthetic in environments ranging from 
veterinary offices and pediatric wards to 
the battlefields of Vietnam, it is more 
( 
cou n' 
escr 
atw. 
over 
una 
38 
ene 
e) 
wou 
ut 
e to 
en z was 
escn e zt to 
com 
ete 
erience. '' 
•• 
often associated with its countercultural 
proponents than 
its 
medical 
ones. 
Psychedelic gurus like astrologer Marcia 
Moore, who advocated the recreational 
use of ketam.ine in her 1978 book,Journrys 
into the Bright World, and D.M. Turner, 
author of The Essential P.rychedelic Guide, 
remain powerful images of the pitfalls 
of ketamine and· its place in American 
drug culture. Moore disappeared from . 
her house in 1979, presumably under 
the influence of ketamine. Her skeleton 
was discovered two years later in a tree, 
where she had frozen to death. On New 
Year's Eve of 1996, Turner drowned in 
his bathtub tripping on ketamine. 
· 
Ketamine is currendy listed as a 
Schedule III narcotic by the United States 
Drug Enforcement Agency, along with . 
anabolic steroids and GHB, "the date rape 
drug." Known on the street as "Special 
K," ketamine has become popular on the 
rave scene in recent years. "It is an entirely 
different, and a potentially dangerous 
situation, 
when 
somebody 
abuses 
ketamine," says Krystal. ''When abused, 
ketamine is often ingested in combination 
' 
with 
other 
substances 
that 
impair 
perception or judgment, like cannabis. 
The compounding of intoxicant effects 
could have unpredictable results." 
Such stigma 
has deterred some 
would-be research subjects. Nikolaidis 
first learned of the trial from his friend, 
Spencer Gray, another Yale junior who 
had been scheduled to participate in the 
study, but dropped out before it began. 
"I had some issues," says Gray, who has 
participated in a number of other Yale 
studies, including MRis and glucose 
tolerance tests. Gray's motivations, unlike 
his friend's, were primarily financial. "My 
parents told me to get a job last year;' 
Gray says, "so I carne up with the idea of 
doing experiments." The ketamine trial, 
which was advertised in the Yale post 
office, would have been a major windfall: 
completing.. the two week trial brought 
with it an $875 paycheck. 
Gray signed up for the experiment, 
went through a preliminary four-hour 
psychological evaluation, and consulted 
friends and acqua1ntances about' it. Many 
urged him to reconsider. His mother 
finally convinced him to change his 
mind. 
"She flipped out," Gray recalls. "I 
called her and told her I was thinking 



**Title: Ketamine Experiments at Yale**
**Author: Nick Handler**
**Page number(s): 39**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
about doing it. She started crying on the 
phone and asked me not to do it. It was 
Mother's Day and her birthday, and she 
asked me not to do it as a gift to her." 
While he ultimately decided not. to 
participate, G.tay believes the experiment 
is safe. "They're pretty careful about past 
history of psychosis and depression and 
stuf£ They were pretty open about the 
whole procedure. I didn't feel deceived or 
anything.'' 
"Participants 
are-
screened 
very 
carefully 
with 
regard 
to 
their 
psychological 
and 
physical 
health," 
Krystal confirms. ''We believe that this 
may be a reason that ketamine has been 
so safe in our studies and in the studies 
conducted by our colleagues around the 
world." While ketamine alters judgement 
and perception, it can, says Krystal, "be 
studied safely in people who have been 
prepared for its effects, who are supervised 
by people who have experience in dealing 
with symptoms that it produces, and 
when it is administered in a setting that is 
safe and comfortable." 


Sanacora similarly emphasizes the 
relative safety of ketamine. ''It's been 
around for quite a while," he says. ''It can 
raise blood pressure, but otherwise it is 
pretty well-tolerated." 


December 2007 
Jerald Block is a Washington-based 
psychiatrist who has criticized some of 
Yale's past human experiment policies-
particularly a recent clinical trial on 
Zyprexa, a medication designed to treat 
schizophrenia that was administered to 
adolescents over a period of several years. 
He views human testing as a balancing 
act. "I don't think researchers go into 
their studies trying to deceive people," 
he says. "Rather, we can get excited by a 
concept, lose perspective, and may take it 
too far. That is the role of Institutional 
Review Boards . to rein people in a 
bit. It is a tough balance. If the IRB is 
too intrusive, they hold back important 
research and people are harmed. If they 
are too loose ... people can also get hurt." 


Nonetheless, 
Block, who has not 
specifically investigated Yale's ketamine 
experiments, sees potential in the drug. 
"I do not know the protocol so I cannot 
address it, specifically," he says. "However, · 
I will say that ketamine is interesting ... 
the literature seems to indicate some 
rather amazing data coming out on the 
use of ketamine in treating depression. 
So, it is an important substance to study 
and has the potential for a breakthrough 
discovery." 


For others, the touted safety of such a 
study is not enough to convince them to 
participate. Michelle Castaneda, a friend 
of Gray's who became concerned after 
she learned of his plans to participate 
in the experiment, called her father, a 
professor at New York University School 
of Medicine and Director of Inpatient 
Psychiatry 
at Bellevue 
Psychiatric 
Hospital in New York, to ask him his 
opinion on the subject. 


"He did some reading on it, and said 
ketamine testing seemed pretty safe and 
pretty legitimate, but when I asked him if 
he would ever let me do it, he told me 
'never, ever, ever, ever, ever."' 


Nikolaidis, a psychology major who 
nins a lab in which he conducts non-
dmg-related psychology experiments on 
volunteers of his own, defends the testing. 
''I could not have imagined a more well-run 
study," he says. ''I think in terms of having 
my best interest at heart, I could not have 
imagined better researchers." Nikolaidis 
admits that he could be exceptional in his 
willingness to lend his mind to science. ''It 
might just be me," he says, "but I'm just 
curious about drugs." 


1 ick Handler, a junior in Ezra Stiles College, is a 
• 
managing editor qf TNJ. 



**Yale's Undergraduate Career Services: Pulling the Strings?**
**Author: Ben**
**Page number(s): 40-41**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
•
n 2000, a student walked into the 
lobby 
of 
Yale's 
Undergraduate · 
Career Services and asked how to 
become a puppeteer. "This guy wanted 
a certain salary, certain benefits," recalls 
.
Phil Jones, the director of UCS since 
1999. ''"We put a counselor to work on it 
and ended up with tons of information 
on puppeteering positions. It's rare, but 
every once in a while a student hits us 
with something new." 
Seated in his office at 55 . Whitney 
Avenue, UCS' base of operations for the 
. past seven years, Jones exudes confidence. 
British and heavily bearded, he has faith 
in his department's ability to smooth over 
the potentially harrowing experience of 
securing employment after nearly two 
decades of uninterrupted schooling. He 
is quick to champion the professional 
prowess of Yalies independent of UCS' 
involvement. "The greatest fear I hear 
from the students who come here is 
that they're not going to get jobs," he 
says. "That's ridiculous. In a competitive 
market, the most competitive people are 
40 
' .
. .
By Ben 
• •
going to get the jobs, and the smartest 
people tend to . be the most competitive. 
And where are the smartest people?" He 
pauses, and leans forward conspiratorially 
in his armchajr. "The smartest people are 
here!" 
·
And 
yet, despite their intelligence, 
his clients are considerably less sanguine. 
From the oft-quoted complaint of UCS' 
favoritism towards investment bankers 
and consulting firms to the prohibitive 
expense 
its 
overseas 
Bulldogs 
programs, not all students sing the praises 
of their Whitney Avenue advocates. 
Despite 
UCS' 
undeniably 
daunting 
resources 
an expansive alumni network, 
a seemingly endless cycle of specialized 
-
seminars, and a sizeable and well-trained 
staff Yalies continue to write off the 
service as impersonal, limited in scope, 
and lacking in the kind of capabilities that 
New Haven's hotbed of precocious pre-
professionals really wants: 
Jones uses the story of the puppeteer 
to illustrate the open-mindednes.s of 
the 0ffice he runs, but the tale raises 
questions of its own. Who really pulls the 
strings at UCS? Is it big-name firms like 
Morgan Stanley and. JPM9rgan, whose 
high turnover rates requjre a constant 
influx of fresh Ivy League blood? Is 
it the Yale administration, pushing its 
undergraduates to enter lucrative fields 
and seek prestigious positions? Or is it 
the students themselves, increasingly · 
concerned 
about 
their 
professional 
futures as graduation approaches, yet 
wary of abandoning the cushy confines 
of college far the monetary crush of the 
marketplace? 
Jones' answer is unequivocal: "I don't 
care what you do," he explains. "Our role 
here is to challenge students about what 
they want from a career. What's your 
criteria?" Indeed, since he acquired his post 
in 1999,Jones has taken sweeping steps to 
broaden UCS' interactions with students, 
allowing what was once a Wall Street 


THE NEW JOURNAL 


**Yale's Undergraduate Career Services: Pulling the Strings? (Continued)**
**Page number(s): 41**

clearing-house to cater more and more 
to individualized interests and courses 
of study. "The important thing is sitting 
down one-on-one with undergraduates 
and discussing their future," he maintains. 
"It's going to be different for everyone." 
Before Jones took the helm at UCS, there 
were no counseling appointments. Now, 
the office accommodates roughly five 
thousand meetings a year. 
This personal contactis Jones' response 
to his concerns over the deceptive ease 
of applying for positions in the age .of 
Internet commerce. "It's a kind of tunnel 
vision students have," he says, "like if 
it's all online, people can just furrow 
the path that's in their head. Somebody 
walked in here once and literally asked 
for our list of jobs." Jones does not see 
providing laundry lists and sign-up sheets 
as his responsibility. He contends that the 
road to the perfect career is one students 
must follow on the strength of their own 
ambition. UCS can· provide direction and 
advice, but does not aim to fence clients 
into the field of their dreams. The service, 
in Jones' words, "specializes in the totally 
clueless." 
But in drawing a distinction between 
monomaniacal pre-professionals and the 
desperately aimless, UCS misses what may 
be the most sizeable demographic of all: 
students with a pretty clear idea of their 
career goals, but not the faintest sense 
of how to achieve them. Bevan Dowd, 
a senior Literature major, unsuccessfully 
attempted to locate a writing or publishing 
internship through UCS for the summer 
between her sophomore-and junior years. 
When repeated searches proved fruitless, 
she decided to take matters into her own 
hands. 'Cj_ spent a lot of time on the UCS 
website," she explains, "but there just 
wasn't enough variety." Frustrated, Dowd 
went home and Googled "magazine 
internship New York City." She sent 
her resume to the first hit and spent 
the summer employed by a small food 
magazine. Her work involved, among 
other editorial duties, tracking down the 
top ten apple pies of the Big Apple. 
"I think the biggest problem with 
UCS is that a lot of people just- find 
them unapproachable," says Dowd. ''I 
know that they're trying to change the 
image that they're just for consulting 
and banking jobs, but that message isn't 
reaching students." Contrary to Jones' 
December 2007 
conjecture, Dowd identifies most Yalies' 
professional anxiety as aggravated not 
by the uncertainty of finding a job, any 
job, but by the daunting quest to locate 
the "perfect fit" career. "UCS is a good . 
resource," she says, "and it makes Yale 
unique. But the complications that arise 
in a job search can't be assuaged by a 
service so many ~tudents see as tied up in 
a limited array of fields." 
Even those in pursuit of positions at 
investment banks and consulting firms 
acknowledge the system's limitations. 
' 
Andriana Diez, a senior who will work 
for JPMorgan next year, praises the 
organizational 
abilities 
UCS. 
''I _ 
couldn't imagine going through the job 
search without UCS," explains Diez. 
"One week I had 13 interviews. If it 
hadn't been for them, I would have been 
out of school for a week." Still, Diez is 
quick to point out that a student's opinion 
of the organization depends largely on 
the career she chooses and the qua1ity 
of her counseling sessions, which can 
vary widely. ''I feel like U CS is really 
underappreciated on campus," she says. 
''But how people feel about the program 
generally goes along with whether or not 
it helped them personally." 
Olga Berlinsky, another senior with 
a job offer from a top consulting firms 
agrees. "Last year, I was applying to 
some banking internships and set up an 
appointment at UCS to_ talk about finance 
interviews," recalls Berlinsky. "The first 
question the UCS person asked me was, 
'Are you really interested in this stuff, or 
are you just doing it because it's being 
thrown at you?' That really surprised 
me." 
Jones' commitment to diversifying 
UCS' appeal beyond simple schedu1ing 
and headhunting has been at least partia11y 
effective. Their counselors are asking the 
right questions, but the jury is out on 
whether they are helpful ''My impression 
is that UCS isn't really the place to get 
direction," comments Berlinsky. ''I think 
there are plenty of other resources at 
Yale, like friends, professors, and deans, 
that are more suited than UCS at helping 
you answer those general life questions." 
question of the puppeteer remains. 
Just how willing is UCS to tackle the 
unprecedented and the absurd, to assist 
students· with ambitions well beyond the 
realm of the immediately feasible? Jones, 
during our conversation, noted that the 
"hardest thing for Yale students is that 
. there really isn't anything they can't do." I 
sa s) 
c. ue ess. '' 
wondered just how far UCS' definition of 
"anything" extended, and decided to find 
out firsthand whether something more 
akin to Pinocchio than puppeteering was 
at work in the director's tale. 
After scheduling a standard thirty-
minute appointment, I made my way to 
UCS' Whitney Avenue headquarters and 
waited in the lobby for my counselor to 
appear. Before long, an affable red-haired 
woman emerged from behind a cubicle 
and shook my hand. We exchanged 
pleasantries 
where was I from, what 
was my major? 
and proceeded to her 
office. 
"So what brings you here today?" she 
asked, leaning over the desk. 
"It might sound a bit strange," I 
said, "but I'm looking for a job as a 
taxidermist." 
The counselor scrunched her eyes 
inquisitively, but appeared 
otherwise 
nnfazed. Turning to her computer, she 
began to pore through UCS' vast database 
of alumni contacts. A quick search of the 
listings yielded no matches. Moving over 
to a compilation of job postings, the 
counselor brought my attention to a pull-
down list of career categories. 
''We can take a look at Environment 
and 
Preservation," 
she 
exp]ained. 
''Taxidermy is a kind of preservation, I 
guess." When this too failed to produce a 
hit, the counselor rotated in her chair to 
face me. Scribbling notes on a steno pad, 
she lifted her eyes to meet mine. 
"Have you tried a random Google 
search?" 
Ben 
a· sophomore in Berke~ College, is an 
on-line editor of TNJ. 
41 




**Title: Shakespeare and Company**
**Author: Jessica Svendsen**
**Page number(s): 43-45**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
burning through U!Jsses on a
second floor balcony beneath
the looming fac;ade of Notre
Dame, I was interrupted by a pianist
hammering out rhythmic jazz in harmony
with a frenzied drumbeat from below.
Following the staircase down to the piano,
•
I encountered Carnal, the bookshop's
carpenter. His toolbox lay locked at his
side; instead of repairing the two poetry
shelves that had collapsed the day before,
he sat on the corner stair beating a make-
shift drum in time to the pouring summer
rain. Instead of facing the indignity of
walking drenched through Saint-Michel,
Carnal was waiting out the rain inside the
shop. I sat down on the top stair and,
following Carnal's lead, enclosed within
its doors, decided to surrender myself to
the peculiar melody of Shakespeare and
Co.

Some weeks before, on my arrival
at the Parisian bookshop, I had pushed
through the swarms of awed customers
and asked for Sylvia, Sylvia Beach
Whitman. I would begin my stay in her
bookshop that evening. A thin-framed
woman stood behind the vintage cash
register, surrounded by the summer horde
of American tourists, all of whom were
overwhelmingly relieved to speak English
with the Australian-accented manager. Eli
that I am, I expected Sylvia to descend
from her manager's office and offer a full
orientation on the rules and regulations
of the shop. As I would be sleeping there,
I assumed that a few expectations would
be established. Yet I quickly realized that
control and organization were antithetical
to the bohemian lifestyle of Shakespeare
and Co. I was to read, and I was to write.
In exchange for this intellectual discovery
was a mattress, located right in the center
of Paris. According to my official tide, I
was a ''Writer-in-Residence."

Sleeping overnight in a bookstore
encapsulated all of my fondness for folios
and octavos, even for the paperback. Yet
not any bookstore would satisfy me
I
had to sleep overnight in Shakespeare and
Company.

Though Shakespeare and Co. attracts
some tourists because of its consistent
listing in Paris guidebooks, most overlook
this hidden treasure tucked between the
busding markets of Saint-Michel and the
flying buttresses of Notre-Dame. This
small bibliophilic sanctuary is known for
December 2007
its eclectic collection of English novels in
a country which vigorously promotes all
things French. It also serves as a haven
for wandering and penniless writers who
are allowed to sleep ainong its shelves for
. '
free.

When I first heard of the opportunity,
I was skeptical. Perhaps it was possible for
a beatnik, but not for me, not now. Even
.
the most unconventional modern hipster,
I thought, would not hitchhike across
Europ'e without a mapped.,.out plan or
sleep in a grimy and soiled bookshop just
for the sake of advenwre. Yet according
to the store's owner, George Whitman,
over forty-thousand people have sl~pt in
e
all congregated in her shop, which
became the center of literary culture and
innovative ideas. Hardly by coincidence,
all of the books banned in England and
America
most notably, Joyce's U!Jsses'--
were .readilty .available in Sylvia's shop.
After Anglophone publishers rejected the
monumental text as pornographic, Beach
. decided to publish it out of Shakespeare
and Company.

The shop closed after the
German occupation of Paris during
World War II.
Hemingway himself
liberated the store when he entered Paris
with the American troops in 1944, but
it was years before it re-opened across
over
ave se
zn
zs
s 0
e ears.
wen
• •
eco
his shop over the years. I went to Paris
determined to become the next.

One cannot know Shakespeare and
Co. without knowing George._ A 93-year-
old man who retains a remarkably lucid
memory and a propensity to burst into a
tyrannical rage, George is a living legend
whose presence in the shop inspires both
awe and fear. He occasionally descends
from his apartment on the third floor
a
space he calls "The Museum of the Lost
Generation"
and sits out on the wooden ·
benches lining the fac;ade of the shop,
picking up three or four of the rejected
used books, insisting that all of them
have something worthwhile to offer:. A
staunch socialist and a consummate host
who lives by the adage, Be not inhospitable to
strangers, lest thry be angels in disguise, he first
allowed complete strangers to sleep in his
bookstore in 1951.

George is the second owner of
Shakespeare and Company; Sylvia Beach
Whitman, his daughter, now manages the
shop. The original bookstore, located in
the heart of l'Odeon, was established by
Sylvia Beach in 1919. Her lending libraty
of English books quickly became the
refuge for all of the expatt iate writers
of the Lost Generation. Hemingway,
Fitzgerald, Pound, Stein, Joyce
they
town. George felt he had the prerogative
to reestablish the store, recreating a
literary haven where young writers could
gather, discuss, and create, while living
in one of the world's most stimulating
cities. A second generation of lost writers
gathered in George's bookshop, everyone
from the last modernists
Henry Miller,
Anais Nin, Richard Wright, and Samuel
Beckett
through
the
first
Beats-
Allen Ginsberg, William Burroughs and
Lawrence Ferlinghetti. George restored
Beach's literary sphere, but this rime
according to his Mat xist credo: Give what
you can; take what you need.

entered George's utopia and fell into
the rhythms of the shop's exceptional
lifestyle. On my first day of residence,
I passed underneath the green front
doorway and was confronted with a chaos
of books, lying strewn in every possible
direction. Books extended up to the edge
of the rolling ceiling and crowded into
splintered wooden shelves so unstable
that one could not pull a spine off the
shelf without fear of collapse. Pyramidal
piles of books were stacked in corners,
stuffed into suitcases like dirty clothing,
or thrown, rolling and dismembered,
into bins outside the shop, as if some


--- Page 44 ---

unsuspecting tourist would fall in love
with the flimsy paperbacks and purchase .
one. Interspersed throughout this mayhem
were
seven
mattresses,
comfortably
awaiting the fatigued residents of the
shop once those green doors closed at
midnight.

·
During my stay, the shop hosted
anywhere from three to ten writers each
night. We obediently helped open the
shop at midday and close at midnight.
For two hours in between, we worked in
the store . a sort of work-study program
as part ·of our invitation to stay. One
afternoon, while I was shelving literary
nonfiction, a delicate model entered the
bookshop, picked up the nearest Tiffany-
blue hardback an9 pretended to read
pose for her shoot. I felt eerily analogous
to Audrey Hepburn in Funf!Y Face} covered
in the grime of dusty book jackets,
scripted to the role of the bookworm in
opposition to the liberated and vivacious
Fred Astaire.

44
·-·· :· .
?ach morning, the resident writers
wearily strolled across the street to Cafe
Panis, where the waiters behind the bar
distinguished us · from the Notre Dame
tourists . by our bloodshot eyes, our dirty
clothes, and (above all) our greasy hair. We
quickly gulped down the one euro cafe at
the bat: cheap but strong. After that, we
went our separate ways
heading upstairs
to the library to .fulfill George's bidding
that we read a book a day or sitting down at
an anCient typewnter, attempting to wnte
amidst all the customers disturbing our
temporary home. We would reconvene at
midnight and retreat upstairs to the library,
pop open the cheapest bottle of wine that
Franprix offered, and let our thoughts
flow. We positioned ourselves amidst the
books and talked into the wee hours of the
morning. Some nights, the conversations
were more intellectual--discussing the
absurdity of French deconstructionism,
Ted Hughes' influence on Sylvia Plath,
or the ways Walter Benjamin's theories on
art applied to Paris' constantly-clicking
tourists. Other times, we simply laughed
uncontrollably at YouTube videos or
mentally prepared ourselves for our en-
masse excursion the next morning to the
free public showers.

George was a prominent fixture during
my stay. I recall fondly the morning when
I was allowed to "shower" in George's
bathtub, pouring a pan of hot water
over myself, terrified of the ubiquitous
cockroaches squirming throughout his
apartment, or of seeing George himself, a
notable ladies' man, spying on me through
the stained gl~s windows that lined the
tub. I gained the. ultimate satisfaction one
Sunday afternoon when I was privileged
to be George's "Tea Lady." I served tea
to his friends, his dedicated followers, and
even the random customers who gathered
in his tiny apartment every Sunday at four
o'clock. His crass voice rang into the
narrow hallway, inquiring as to whether
everyone had a cup of tea and a madeleine.


--- Page 45 ---

Moments later, he strode into the room,
still dressed in his blue polka-dot pajamas
with his wired grey hair pointing in every
direction.

eyond feeling compelled to live
in Shakespeare and Co., I wanted
to read U fysses in the books hop that
published it. I managed to hew my way
through Joyce's jumbled narrative, sitting
on the seco.Q.d-floor windowsill, looking
across the -Seine to Notre Dame. Yet
reading the monumental epic didn't have
the profound effect I had anticipated.
The bookstore changed me more than
its colossal publication. It fulfilled my
deep-rooted desire' to be bohemian; to
throw away my planner and Post-It notes
and merely live by the hour; to no longer
be the collared-shirted, trousered, tight-
bunned Yale student. To be part of the
generation still lost, migrating from place
to place without any fixed destination; to
no longer have a mapped out plan, but
.r
;
'
. -~ ····· .. '
•'.. .
merely exist from day to day, having no
connections, no way to be traced, but to
just be.

I was still living in the bookstore
during the crazed celebrations of the
final Harry Potter installment. In the midst
of the long line of squealing customers
eager to acquire their reserved copies,
George yelled at me for not properly
centering Shakespeare and Co.'s signature
stamp on the title page, insisting that
the customer deserved a refund for
not receiving a properly-placed stamp.
I laughed, and Sylvia smiled at me with
sympathy. After the copies had been sold,
George sat down in a corner chair to
offer all the regulars his homemade butter
rum from a glass bell jar. We all walked
outside and dispersed across -the worn
benches lining the shop. I carefully rolled
some tobacco; as I peered over the end
of my first cigarette, I saw the eager eyes
and smirlciog smile of a fellow writer as
he lit the end. He seemed to take infinite
pleasure in his minor involvement in my
conversion into a free-spirit. I smiled and
inhaled. I breathed in, opening my lungs
and myself to a bohemian rhythm.
-
Jessica Svendsen is a j11nior in Marse College.
45



**Title: The Rhodes Scholarships**
**Author: Matthew Lee**
**Page number(s): 46-47**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Like many Yale students, I like money. Unfortunately, also like many Yale students, I've spent my college career reading books from an age when money was probably denominated in seashells or salt. Short on marketable skills, I've spent most of my senior year trying to convince rich people to hand me money for no good reason. For those of you who are facing the same problem before graduation, I suggest my latest get-rich-quick scheme: the Rhodes Scholarships.


The Rhodes Scholarships are just one of the many philanthropic ventures established by a Victorian tycoon named Cecil Rhodes, who also founded the De Beers diamond corporation and the charming nation of Rhodesia. Of all Rhodes' acts of charity, however, the Rhodes Scholarships are undoubtedly the most noble chiefly insofar as they have the potential to benefit me. The Scholarships fund two years of study at the University of Oxford in the United Kingdom; as such, they're perfect for those of us incapable of acquiring a paying job or a suntan.


Winning a Rhodes Scholarship is fairly straightforward. First, overcome some crippling hardship. (Consider becoming addicted to heroin.) Second, rescue some starving orphans and homeless puppies; if at all possible, save time by letting the starving orphans adopt the puppies. Third, demonstrate strong leadership by ruthlessly eliminating those who dare to challenge your authority, starting with all competing applicants for the Rhodes Scholarships.


(Intelligence helps but is hardly a prerequisite. I, for instance, consider myself a strong candidate.)


If invited for an interview, do anything possible to establish your credentials as an Anglophile. Answer all questions in an assumed British accent (Cockney rhyming slang works best). Express admiration for great Englishmen like Margaret Thatcher. End every answer by quoting Fawlty Towers.


Rhodes committees are especially impressed by displays of courage. Begin the interview by noting that you have spent the past several years living in New Haven—a town known to be inhabited by poor people, minorities, and even some women. If committee members find such Victorian aplomb insufficiently courageous, show off your cojones by streaking.


Finally, if you fail to win a Rhodes Scholarship, don't despair: in the long run, all the winning applicants are still going to die alone, just like you. They'll just be richer in the meantime.

Matthew L.ee, a senior in Jonathan Edwards College, is a staff writer for TNJ.
THE NEW JOURNAL




I didn't want to work for The New Journal—I have better things to do with my time than a magazine that has every prize at Yale's writing competition.  I know that The New Journal is just a training ground for media types and Pulitzer Prize winners.  Daniel, past staffer and editor at The Chimes, Jackie Fuller, and you think just because The New Journal is the oldest and also has the circulation, I'm supposed to be impressed?  Give me some credit. So, I beg of you, go ask who cares? We won't be seeing you at TNJ. The New Journal is looking for innovative writers, DTP designers, dynamic photographers, artistes extraordinaires, business minds, interesting Yalies in general.
www.yale.edu/tnj
thenewjournal@gmail.com


Present this coupon at the Great Buys on Jewelry, scarves, trail dust, handbags, toys and other cool extras at our store.

