Publication date: November 2024
Volume: 57
Issue number: 2

**MASTHEAD:**
- Editors-in-Chief: Maggie Grether, Chloe Nguyen
- Executive Editor: Aanika Eragam
- Managing Editor: Samantha Liu
- Business Manager: Alex Moore
- Verse Editors: Ingrid Rodríguez Vila, Etai Smotrich-Barr
- Senior Editors: Jabez Choi, Paola Santos, Viola Clune, Kylie Volavongsa, Abbey Kim, Anouk Yeh
- Associate Editors: Chloe Budakian, Tina Li, Ben Card, Sophia Liu, Sophie Lamb, Hannah Mark, Ashley Choi, Calista Oetama, Matías Guevara Ruales, Josie Reich, Mia Rose Kohn, Jack Rodriquez-Vars
- Copy Editors: Sara Cao, Sophie Molden, Lilly Chai, Sasha Schoettler, Diego del Aguila, Vivian Wang, Sophia Groff
- Podcast Editors: Suraj Singareddy, Sophie Lamb, Sawan Garde
- Creative Director: Alicia Gan
- Design Editors: Ellie Park, Ashley Zheng, Sarah Feng, Vivian Wang, Jessica Sánchez, Lauren Yee
- Photography: Colin Kim, Gavin Guerrette
- Web Design: Makda Assefa, Kris Aziabor, Caleb Nieh, Aaliyah Short
- Members & Directors: Haley Cohen Gilliland, Peter Cooper, Andy Court, Jonathan Dach, Susan Dominus, Kathrin Lassila, Elizabeth Sledge, Fred Strebeigh, Aliyya Swaby
- Advisors: Neela Banerjee, Richard Bradley, Susan Braudy, Lincoln Caplan, Jay Carney, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, David Greenberg, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Laura Pappano, Jennifer Pitts, Julia Preston, Lauren Rawbin, David Slifka, John Swansburg, Anya Kamenetz, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Nicole Allan, Margaret Bauer, Mark Badger and Laura Heymann, Anson M. Beard, Susan Braudy, Julia Calagiovanni, Elisha Cooper, Peter Cooper, Andy Court, The Elizabethan Club, Leslie Dach, David Freeman and Judith Gingold, Paul Haigney and Tracey Roberts, Bob Lamm, James Liberman, Alka Mansukhani, Benjamin Mueller, Sophia Nguyen, Valerie Nierenberg, Morris Panner, Jennifer Pitts, R. Anthony Reese, Eric Rutkow


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- Light Rain Within the Hour - Cal Barton
- Don’t Ever, Ever Go Here - Abbey Kim
- Double Tanka (Storm) - Lucy Ton That
- Payday: A Sestina - Yash Wadwekar
- Jazz, Above Ground - Zoya Haq
- Arresting One’s Own - Megan Vaz
- No Safe Return - Matías Guevara Ruales
- Are You a Communist? - Maximillian Peel
- Drawn Together - Keertan Venkatesh
- Grocery Gap - Chloe Edwards
- Out of the Frame - Ellie Park
- Opening Access - Andrew Storino
- Off the Books - Kelly Kong
- crossword: Gee Willikers,  page 47.


**Title: Letter from the editors**
**Author: Managing Board**
**Page number(s): 2**

Dear readers,

Where do individuals go when they’re left unprotected by institutions? In 
Volume 57, Issue II of The New Journal, they turn to each other. 

Seven months ago, we witnessed the mass arrest of pro-Palestine student 
protesters on Beinecke Plaza. In our cover story, Megan Vaz traces the 
protracted legal battle for arrested students and the unusual ways the 
administration cracked down on protests last spring, probing the question 
of what protections a university ought to provide its students—and what 
happens when that trust fractures. 

In his feature on the fight to secure Temporary Protected Status for 
Ecuadorians in the United States, Matías Guevara Ruales follows one 
woman’s escape from organized violence in Ecuador and the nationwide 
grassroots campaign to protect migrants from deportation.

Elsewhere in the city, people create their own communities when established 
spaces fail. Kelly Kong talks to parents defending their right to homeschool 
their children independent of governmental restrictions. Andrew Storino 
asks what it means to build a community around disability, an identity 
often private and invisible. A communist reading group unites around the 
promise of revolution, a therapeutic support center models holistic care, and 
a group of activists brings their own experiences with food insecurity to their 
organizing. 

In this issue about people uniting around the causes they believe in, the 
words of Ecuadorian-American activist Angélica Idrovo come to bear. 
“Hope,” she reminds us, “at the end of the day, is a discipline.”

With gratitude,
Maggie, Chloe, Aanika, Sam


**Title: Arresting One’s Own**
**Author: Megan Vaz**
**Page number(s): 14**

Campus arrests last spring fractured long-standing 
protections Yale has historically extended to student 
protestors.


**Title: No Safe Return**
**Author: Matías Guevara Ruales**
**Page number(s): 28**

As violence surges at home, Ecuadorian organizers in 
Connecticut mobilize immigrant communities across 
the U.S. to secure their right to stay.


**Title: Are You a Communist?**
**Author: Maximillian Peel**
**Page number(s): 6**

points of departure


**Title: Drawn Together**
**Author: Keertan Venkatesh**
**Page number(s): 8**

The residents of a psychiatric care village create art and fellowship. 


**Title: Grocery Gap**
**Author: Chloe Edwards**
**Page number(s): 10**

Follow an activist on her grocery run in a food desert. 


**Title: Out of the Frame**
**Author: Ellie Park**
**Page number(s): 13**

At the YUAG, the Department of Prints and Drawings sketches out 
an alternative mode of museum-going. 


**Title: Opening Access**
**Author: Andrew Storino**
**Page number(s): 22**

critical

As the number of students receiving accommodations rises, what 
would it look like to form a community centered on disabled identity? 


**Title: Off the Books**
**Author: Kelly Kong**
**Page number(s): 24**

snapshot

Connecticut’s lack of homeschooling regulations has sparked concerns 
about abuse and neglect–but some parents say state oversight would 
violate their freedom to educate their children. 



**Title: Points of Departure**
**Author: Maximillian Peel**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
4
November 2024          TheNewJournal
Points of Departure
It was in prison, forced to make 
license plates, stop signs, and audito­
rium chairs for 75 cents per day, that he 
started to “wake up.”  
Foster realized that the racism he’d 
experienced as a Black man growing 
up in New Haven “had something to 
do with capitalism”—the way he was 
treated in prison felt like “modern-day 
slavery.” He became fascinated by the 
Black Panthers; he’d seen the Spike 
Lee film Malcolm X as a child and pic­
tured himself in the disillusioned and 
imprisoned young Malcolm.  
Upon his discharge, Foster felt that 
a lot of people in his position would 
simply “sit down, blend in, and live a 
quiet life.” But he had to do something. 
He began volunteering at neighborhood 
projects, including the Connecticut 
Community for Addiction Recovery, 
where he met Eric Goodman, a 28-year-
old from Vermont and founder of the 
RCA’s Connecticut branch. 

If you’ve come across the “Are You A 
Communist?” posters plastered around 
Yale’s campus, you’ve already had your 
first dalliance with the RCA. The group’s 
origins are far from New Haven: it was 
founded by Ted Grant, 
a Trotskyist who had 
spent the 1970s work­
ing with the insurgent 
group Militant to infil­
trate the British Labour 
Party. After being kicked 
out in 1983, Grant started 
giving up on the idea that 
you could make change 
through the party sys­
tem. The Revolutionary 
Communist International, 
the organization he estab­
lished a decade later, had 
a more radical vision.
The RCA believes that 
under 
capitalism, 
the 
average person’s quality of 
life slowly gets worse and 
worse until, at some point, 
the floodgates break and 
general strikes and mass 
class struggle ensue. Their 
job is to set up a structure 
for the impending revolu­
tion: Goodman explained 
they aim to “recruit people, 
build up leaders, and send 
them back to the neighbor­
hoods that they’re in.” 

F  
or a member of the Revolutionary 
Communists of America (RCA), Hassan 
Foster is a mild-mannered man. Sporting 
a beanie and oversized blazer, he opened 
his notebook to a page titled “Left-wing 
Activism.” The 42-year-old was soft-spo­
ken when we met for coffee, almost 
passing as just another armchair revolu­
tionary. Nothing could be further from 
the truth. 
After ten years in custody, Foster 
was released from the Connecticut 
prison system last spring. Charged with 
a violent crime, he claims he was pres­
sured by self-interested public defend­
ers into taking a plea, arbitrarily placed 
in solitary confinement for weeks, and 
beaten by guards who “looked at him as 
their slave.” 
Goodman was introduced to com­
munism as a sophomore at McGill 
University. At a performance art show, 
he was instructed to stare into a strang­
er’s eyes for five minutes; when their 
time was up, the pair began a casual 
conversation which soon grew political. 
The woman asked whether he’d want 
to go to a communist party meeting—
Goodman tentatively said yes. 
Sitting in his first RCA meeting, he 
found himself enthralled by how “these 
people were saying funny words like 
bourgeoise and prose…but they had a 
robust framework for why things were 
so fucked up.” His chemical engineering 
degree simply wasn’t part of the solution. 
Soon, transferring out of McGill, mov­
ing to Denver, and ditching engineering 
for history, he started a local branch and 
began organizing.  
 By 2020 Goodman found himself 
settling down with his partner in New 
Haven, ready to be “done with it all.” 
Then, the national party came calling. 
When a budding local communist asked 
the party how he could get involved 
with communism in New Haven, the 
RCA put him in touch with Goodman, 
impressed by the branch he’d built in 
Denver. Organizing, Goodman believes, 
“starts with two people,” and the party 
had found him a second.
Now, every Monday, members of 
the RCA get together and discuss texts—
Lenin’s “State and Revolution” was on 
last week’s agenda. During the week, 
they put theory into practice: attending 
protests, holding rallies, or making the 
case for communism to their friends and 
coworkers. For now, the driving goal of 
the RCA is to connect like-minded peo­
ple and build a network—Foster has 
taken college-aged “comrades” to meet 
his friends who are still in prison, and 
the group is meeting members of the 
New York branch this month. The RCA 
declined to tell me the number of mem­
bers they have––either out of secrecy 
for their grand revolutionary plans, or 
the fact that they might be smaller than 
Goodman lets on. 

Part of their strategy is to work 
within existing protests. During the 
pro-divestment protest on Beinecke 
Plaza last April, two RCA members 
camped out day and night among Yale 
students in an effort to translate inter­
national frustrations to issues closer 
to home, like workers’ rights. The RCA 
holds their own rallies as well, their 
posters emblazoned with “Fight Tuition 
Hikes!” or “No War With Iran!” 
As Goodman put it, “Foreign policy 
is just an offshoot of domestic policy.” 
Foster, who still isn’t quite a hard­
core revolutionary, hopes the party 
will empower him to make changes 
here at home. “I’m not exactly sure 
what it looks like but we can do bet­
ter. The country can do better,” Foster 
told me. He’s trying to “see a better 
city,” to reform the justice system, and 
to shine a light on the “Black magic” of 
the courtroom. After all, while he got 
a second chance, not everyone does. 
J’Allen Jones, a friend of his, was killed 
in Garner Correctional Institution in 
Newtown, Connecticut in 2018. Foster’s 
tone sombered each time he mentioned 
his own two years spent in Garner: “It 
was hell in there, there was more vio­
lence than I’ve ever seen.” 
Foster has found a second home 
in the RCA: “I’m a brother that’s been 
adopted into the family; they didn’t 
judge me for doing ten years in prison, 
they just invited me in. People want to 
hear what I have to say.” At the core, it’s 
a group where like-minded people from 
a panoply of backgrounds can gather 
and carve out a space for themselves. Yes, 
the RCA reads Lenin on Mondays, but 
they play Monopoly on Wednesdays 
and barbecue on the weekend.  
However, Goodman was quick to 
dispel any notions that the RCA was 
all fun and games. “This is a hardcore 
organization,” he said. People have to 
be “up to their responsibilities”—each 
comrade has a defined title in the party, 
from ‘Secretaries’ to ‘Press Officers.’
Chantal Gibson, a 21-year-old 
party member from New Haven, 
emphatically agreed.
“Being a comrade is a different type 
of bond,” said Gibson. “We’re not just 
casual friends, and we don’t play per­
sonality politics.” The ties between 
comrades are based off a fundamental 
understanding that “when the time 
comes, you’re dedicated and committed 
to the cause.”
The RCA itself probably isn’t going to 
overthrow capitalism, but every Monday 
night, a ragtag group of activists bands 
together, reads Marx, and keeps a small 
but fierce revolutionary flame alive in 
New Haven. Gibson accepts that their 
work “may seem small in New Haven,” 
but for revolutions around the country 
and the world to succeed, “we need to 
do our job.”  
As Goodman remarked, “A better 
world has to be possible—because if not, 
what’s the point?”∎


5
TheNewJournal          November 2024
Photos courtesy of Gavin Guerrette
Are You a 
Communist?
Revolution is coming, and it’s coming 
to New Haven. 
Layout design by Vivian Wang


**Title: Points of Departure**
**Author: Keertan Venkatesh**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
7
TheNewJournal          November 2024
Points of Departure
fitness classes, counseling services, and 
cultural events to over three hundred 
clients. Most unique of the Clubhouse’s 
offerings, perhaps, is the Expressive Arts 
Program. It offers therapeutic services 
fueled by artistic expression: dance classes, 
music groups, and visual arts classes.
“It’s a beautiful blend between art 
and psychology,” explained Marisabel 
Sanchez, a New Haven artist and 
Fellowship’s Expressive Arts Coordinator. 
“Typical cognitive-based therapy is about 
thinking about your issues in a different 
way; it’s about changing your perspective 
on the issue you’re facing. Art is similar, 
but more expressive.”
Leo Trang, the first Fellowship client 
to join Sanchez and me in the Clubhouse, 
agreed. Hefty black headphones sat 
around his neck, the wire looped repeat­
edly around the front strap of the brown 
satchel slung over his shoulder.
He spoke with his hands. “I have a 
range of emotions from, like, here to here.” 
He created a spectrum with his palms 
parallel to the ground, one above his head 
and the other at his chest. “Before com­
ing to Fellowship, my mood was always 
low, and the medicine could kind of push 
me up to a normal level.” He moved his 
bottom hand up to his chin. “But the 
medicine locks you into that point.”
Trang was the first person at his 
psychiatrist’s office to ever success­
fully stop taking medication, which 
he attributed entirely to Fellowship. 
Before Fellowship, he tried traditional 
therapy, group therapy, intensive outpa­
tient programs, and a different art pro­
gram––all to no avail. 
Trang attributed Fellowship’s unique 
effectiveness to the autonomy it affords 
its clients. “We’re not just people lumped 
in here––there’s no bell telling us to 
move from class to class,” he said. “We’re 
all actually hanging out together. We’re 
socializing of our own free will.” This 
autonomy, he continued, allowed him to 
build a genuine community that moti­vated him to visit Fellowship consistently.
Charlotte Sabovic, a licensed clini­
cal social worker and the director of the 
Clubhouse, explained that this auton­
omy is foundational to Fellowship’s 
healthcare strategy. “Too much of their 
lives is so prescribed,” Sabovic said. 
“They’ve been told what to do for what­
ever amount of time by too many differ­
ent people. In here, it’s not that at all.”
Trang burst out in agreement: “We 
can actually breathe.”
Sabovic stifled a smile before 
continuing. “It’s a person-centered 
approach,” she said. “We’re here to 
encourage them. It’s led by what they 
want to do, independently.”
To Higgins, for example, Fellowship 
largely serves as a middle-man between 
him and the resources he needs.
Higgins has been heavily involved 
in the New Haven arts scene since 
moving here in 1997, and Fellowship 
brought him a community with which 
his art could grow. In his experimental 
pieces, he explores the relationship 
between 
photography, 
paper, 
and 
light––he creates automatistic pieces, 
which are intended to be interpreted 
distinctly by each viewer.
Through his art, Higgins retroac­
tively observes his mental health. “I can 
look back at my work and think, ‘Oh, 
jeez––that’s what I was feeling.’”
This self-awareness provided him 
the mental stability to pursue the psy­
chiatric care he needed. After working 
with Fellowship for months, he trans­
ferred his psychiatric services to a new 
provider, where he received medication 
that further stabilized his mental health.
When asked about the future of 
Fellowship Place, Guerrera empha­
sized the importance of strengthening 
Fellowship’s physical community. “All I 
want is the dollars to build more hous­
ing,” she said. “Some of these people 
don’t have incomes. The solution to 
this problem isn’t just affordable hous­
ing. We need deeply affordable housing, 
and we need support services.”
With its rent accommodating 
for residents’ incomes, its communi­
ty-based support system, and its case 
management 
resources, 
Fellowship 
seeks to fill this need.∎
Keertan Venkatesh is a first-year in 
Saybrook College.
photography by colin kim
Fellowship Place stands tucked between residential buildings on Elm Street.



**Title: Grocery Gap**
**Author: Chloe Edwards**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

8
November 2024          TheNewJournal
Grocery Gap
Follow an activist on her grocery run 
in a food desert.
F 
orty-seven dollars. That’s all the 
Supplemental Nutrition Assistance 
Program (SNAP) has given Cheryl Rabe 
to spend on a month’s worth of groceries. 
At Stop & Shop, Rabe must decide: 
strawberries are too expensive on their 
own, so she opts for the value container 
of mixed fruit; organic greens aren’t 
affordable and bagged salad will go bad 
too quickly, so she chooses a head of 
lettuce; alfredo sauce—which Rabe pre­
fers—is too expensive, so she settles for 
tomato sauce; soda isn’t ideal, but it’s 
only one dollar, so it goes in the cart.
“I’ve been learning to eat like that—
to not be picky,” Rabe says, looking 
downward at the cart. Today she wears 
an Obama T-shirt that reads “Have you 
missed me yet?”  
Rabe is a member of the New Haven 
chapter of Witnesses to Hunger, a group 
whose mission is to “identify, address, 
and create positive solutions to food 
insecurity.”
What distinguishes Witnesses to 
Hunger from similar food-focused advo­
cacy groups in New Haven is their mem­
bers—many of them, like Rabe, have 
personally lived with food insecurity.
As we pass through Stop & Shop’s 
aisles, Rabe maps out New Haven’s food 
insecurity for me. The city has a tremen­
dous lack of grocery options. This means 
that, according to the United States 
Department of Agriculture, parts of New 
Haven are classified as a food desert: an 
urban area where it is difficult to buy 
affordable or good-quality fresh food. 
As a result, 22 percent of New 
Haven residents are food insecure—
double the national average, as the 
Yale Hunger and Homelessness Action 
Project (YHHAP) states. 
Stop & Shop, located on Whalley 
Avenue, is the only full-service super­
market within walking distance from 
downtown New Haven, so price gouging 
is common. 
“Milk you can get for $2.50 at 
Walmart, they’ll charge you $4.50 at Stop 
& Shop,” Rabe says. 
Food insecurity, and price goug­
ing, have only grown since the pandemic. 
Before the pandemic, Rabe said she 
received 260 dollars from SNAP. After the 
pandemic, that number dropped to six­
ty-seven dollars, and then to forty-seven 
dollars because of her part-time job.
Qualifying for SNAP depends on 
how much money an individual and 
their household makes monthly. In 
Connecticut, someone living in a house­
hold of one making no more than 2,510 
dollars could receive up to 292 dollars 
in SNAP benefits. The sum is followed by 
an asterisk; track it to the bottom of the 
chart and it’s emphasized that this 292 
dollars is “the most SNAP benefits some­
one could get.”
In other words, people like Rabe will 
probably get less. 
Produce on the shelves of New Haven’s Stop & Shop.

9
petition with Witnesses to Hunger ask­
ing Yale to “commit one hundred thou­
sand dollars per year to support existing 
free grocery programs at New Haven 
Public School locations that reach fami­
lies when New Haven public schools are 
not in session.”
Witnesses to Hunger has received 
half of their one hundred thousand dollar 
request. Twelve thousand dollars comes 
from the Yale’s Office of New Haven 
Affairs; the rest is from private donors.
Sitting together at Panera Bread, a 
couple of months after our grocery shop­
ping trip, Rabe and Griffin—decked out 
in white and blue, since the Yankees played 
this weekend—enthusiastically update me 
on Witnesses to Hunger’s advocacy efforts. 
They tell me that Witnesses to Hunger is 
going strong and that they aren’t stopping 
at fifty thousand dollars. Furthermore, 
they want the one hundred thousand dol­
lars to be an annual donation. 
Griffin says the fight is worth it, and 
that it “won’t go away overnight.”
On the third Saturday of each 
month, Witnesses to Hunger will meet 
in Wilson Library to discuss new ways 
to get the word out, educate the commu­
nity, acquire petition signatures, and plan 
future rallies. ∎
Chloe Edwards is a junior in
Branford College.
“So now I’m finding myself at food 
pantries, food banks, soup kitchens,” 
Rabe says, “It’s been very hard.”
SNAP 
benefits 
are 
restrictive. 
Shoppers cannot use an Electronic 
Benefit Transfer card, the card that 
allows SNAP users to access their benefits, 
to purchase hot or prepared food, like 
rotisserie chicken. 
However, SNAP gives more auton­
omy to its users than its alternatives: food 
pantries, food banks, and soup kitchens. 
Rabe explains that food pantries and the 
like tend to give primarily canned goods 
and other “pieces of meals.” They are also 
difficult if you have dietary restrictions 
or preferences, such as a gluten-free or 
Kosher diet.
Witnesses to Hunger sees the issue 
of food insecurity magnified among 
families with school-aged children. Their 
current mission is to raise money for 
children at risk of going hungry when 
meals are not available through New 
Haven Public Schools, which is usually 
during school breaks.
School breaks typically occur at the 
end of the month when money is short 
for many families and SNAP benefits have 
been exhausted. To combat this, Witnesses 
to Hunger has organized an initiative to 
provide groceries to families in need. In 
April, before spring break, families could 
pick up groceries at four different public 
schools for easy accessibility. Any left­
over bags were given to local churches by 
United Way and required pre-registration 
to be picked up by families. 
Some families, however, were either 
unable to register or unaware that the 
bags required registration. Anticipating 
this, volunteers were told to enforce the 
registration rule and only give out bags 
to those who had registered beforehand. 
One of these volunteers was Mark 
Griffin, a Witnesses to Hunger mem­
ber. He decided to give the groceries to 
families, even if they hadn’t pre-regis­
tered. “Our hearts don’t work that way,” 
Griffin said. 
Griffin has been with Witnesses 
to Hunger since 2018, four years after 
the New Haven chapter started. When 
the organization began, Griffin would 
go door-to-door with Billy Bromage, 
a member of Witnesses to Hunger 
and the co-chair of the Food Access 
Working Group of the New Haven 
Food Policy Council, to let families 
know about the mobile vans Witnesses 
to Hunger was using to provide kids 
with meals over the summer.
With donations from a New Haven 
Public School Food Service donor, 
Witnesses to Hunger gave out one thou­
sand two hundred bags of food during 
the April 2024 vacation. Their focus now 
is summer break, or the “August gap,” the 
longest of all school breaks.
“One thousand two hundred bags 
may sound like a lot,” said Susan Harris, 
another Witnesses to Hunger volunteer. 
“However, there are over nineteen thou­
sand students in NHPS and all are eligible 
for free or reduced meals at school.”
In January 2024, Bromage began a 
layout design by Lauren Yee | photos courtesy of Chloe edwards and ellie park
Members of Witnesses to Hunger pass out flyers and 
collect petition signatures on Yale campus.



**Title: Points of Departure: Out of the Frame**
**Author: Ellie Park**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
10
November 2024          TheNewJournal
Points of Departure
Out of the Frame
At the YUAG, the Department of Prints and 
Drawings sketches out an alternative mode 
of museum-going.
A
large wooden door on the 
fourth floor of the Yale University 
Art Gallery guards a room that looks 
off-limits. But small white print on the 
wood reads, “OPEN BY APPOINTMENT.” 
Behind lies a collection of more than 
fifty thousand prints, drawings, and pho­
tographs—the hidden treasures of the 
Department of Prints and Drawings.

Most YUAG curators work outside 
of the three-building museum, but 
Prints and Drawings is one of three 
curatorial departments housed within 
the Gallery. It operates out of a study 
room adjacent to its exhibition space 
on the fourth floor.

Most of the YUAG’s works on paper 
collection are prints. They are created 
by etching or carving an image onto a 
matrix—a template often made of wood 
or metal. The matrix is inked, and the 
inked image is transferred onto another 
surface, often paper or fabric, which 
becomes the artwork. Because the pro­
cess is defined by transfer from a template, 
printmaking facilitates reproducibility. 
For this reason, prints and drawings cura­
tor Freyda Spira told me, works on paper 
are seen as “democratic media.”

“Because they’re multiple, many cop­
ies can be distributed around the world 
and disseminate knowledge,” curator 
Lisa Hodermarsky explained.

What happens when works on paper, 
valued for their accessibility, become 
tucked away in a museum?

***
On an october afternoon, Freyda 
Spira, the Robert L. Solley Curator of 
Prints and Drawings, met me in the 
lobby of the Yale University Art Gallery. 
Together, we took the West Elevator to 
the fourth floor. 

The department was founded in 
1927, ninety-five years after the YUAG. 
Previously, the museum had been mostly 
a paintings collection, and according to 
Hodermarsky, there were only a “small 
smattering of drawings.” In 1925, the 
Gallery was gifted 150 prints by Albrecht 
Dürer and Rembrandt van Rijn, a col­
lection significant enough to start the 
department and study room.

With Spira, I entered the James 
E. Duffy Study Room, where a large 
wooden table stood at the center. Natural 
light flooded in through the floor-to-
ceiling windows, illuminating the prints 
lined neatly along the table’s perimeter. 
Towards the back of the room, offices with 
big glass windows provided a glimpse 
of the curators behind the scenes. I saw 
Lisa Hodermarsky, the Sutphin Family 
Curator of Prints and Drawings, focused 
at her desk, but as soon as I came into the 
room, she greeted me brightly. “I like your 
sweater,” she said. “Very collegiate!”

As the two curators showed me 
through the different spaces, they seam­
lessly bounced sentences back and forth 
between each other.

Spira started: “This is where we do….”

“The magic here!” Hodermarsky finished.

The curators opened several cabinets 
and drawers, sharing fun facts about each 
piece. Works on paper can stand alone 
as complete works, but the collection 
also includes many preparatory works of 
paintings displayed in the Gallery. For 
Hodermarsky, seeing the artist’s process is 
the exciting part. In the late 19th century, 
she explained, the artist of a mural would 
often do the preparatory sketch, but the 
painting was usually done by assistants. 
“The preparatory works are what have the 
artist’s hand,” Hodermarsky said.


Classes often visit the study room, 
where students can experience an alter­
native mode of museum-going. Yale 
English lecturer Margaret Spillane, who 
teaches “Writing about Contemporary 
Figurative Art,” brings her students here 
twice a semester. Students, Spillane said, 
are often surprised by the intimacy of 
experiencing the art at such proximity.

“There’s no glass, there’s no frame,” 
she said. “It’s a completely different 
experience when there’s nothing mediat­
ing the space between you and the work.”


Through the study room, works on 
paper are accessible to students in a way 
that off-site paintings and sculptures are 
not. Yet Joseph Henry, a fellow in the 
Prints and Drawings department who 
facilitates class visits, noted that the rad­
ical reproducibility and traversability of 
prints is perhaps oversold. “They’re not 


Layout deisign by Alicia Gan
Joseph Henry considers works pulled for a future rotation about light and darkness.


--- Page 11 ---

11
TheNewJournal          November 2024
cycle in and out of storage. Sometimes, 
the selections provide unexpected inspi­
ration for rotations: earlier this fall, two 
Dante portfolios were pulled for an 
Italian literature course. The curators 
are now considering the portfolios for a 
future rotation about light and darkness.

Spira said that class selections are 
just one example of the many “rab­
bit holes” through which Spira and 
Hodermarsky find inspiration. Spira said 
the collection is like a library, to which 
Hodermarsky immediately added: “The 
book you think you want is not the one 
you want. It’s the next thing.” 

Spira and Hodermarsky might 
start the curation process by browsing 
virtual documents that travel,” he told 
me, as he handled the prints. “They have 
a real materiality to them.” To be viewed 
by a visitor, each work must be individ­
ually unearthed from storage and moni­
tored by the staff.

The department has long serviced 
visitors through their study room, but 
it was only in 2022 that the department 
received a dedicated gallery space. YUAG 
Chief Curator Laurence Kanter said 
that the Gallery had always wanted one 
for the Prints and Drawings department, 
and the COVID-19 pandemic provided 
the opportunity to convert part of the 
temporary exhibition spaces for prints, 
drawings, and photography rotations.

Yet the department still cannot dis­
play a permanent installation. Because 
light exposure may cause fading and 
color shift in paper, the prints and draw­
ings gallery is changed out every six 
months. Compared to curators at other 
departments, who host mostly perma­
nent installations or special exhibitions 
planned several years in advance, cura­
tors in the Prints and Drawings depart­
ment put together rotations at a tempo 
Henry described as “a little aggressive.” 

Curating rotations, along with servicing 
visitors in their study room, keeps the 
small department busy.

With a diversity of visitors and inter­
ests to accommodate, different works 


Studies for Untitled (2009) by Kerry James Marshall sit on the table.
Left: Studies for Sunlight in a Cafeteria (1958), by Edward Hopper. Right: Sunlight in a Cafeteria (1958) on display on the third floor of the Art Gallery.
Photos by ellie park


--- Page 12 ---

12
through an online database. But having 
the collection at their fingertips enables 
another level of interactivity—the cura­
tors can actually pull works out, see how 
they look in real life, and examine how 
objects look next to each other on the 
big table.

“I think we’re like kids in a candy 
store, and we have a really rich collec­
tion, and so it’s hard not to get excited,” 
Spira said.

When I first visited the small 
department, I was struck by its quiet 
hyperactivity. Now I can see that this 
hyperactivity ensures these works on 
paper have visibility. And visibility is 
crucial for works on paper—they were 
always meant to be seen.

Though these works of art may now 
be tucked away in a museum, it is the 
Prints and Drawings staff who keep the 
spirit of accessibility alive. They facilitate 
the movement of the thousands of prints 
and drawings that lie in storage—prevent­
ing them from collecting dust, and bring­
ing them to the public. With each rotation, 
a new set of works takes on renewed life.

What’s on display in the prints and 
drawings gallery is only a glimpse. Just 
one wall away, tens of thousands of hid­
den prints brim with possibility. ∎
Ellie Park is a junior in
Benjamin Franklin College and a 
Design Editor of The New Journal.

Within the study, a back storage room contains shelves packed with boxes of prints and drawings. Freyda 
Spira pulls out Erasmus of Rotterdam, an engraving by Albrecht Dürer that dates back to 1526.



**Title: Light Rain Within the Hour**
**Author: Cal Barton**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Well, the flood was was coming. Politicians took up the word “Armageddon.” Television preachers did things with their arms. Lifeguard apparel was in fashion, and hipsters wore T-shirts that said “Current Mood: Hieronymous Bosch.” Everyone named Noah had to smile through variations of the same joke. Fortune tellers brought bag-chairs to the gas stations. Farmers forgot the names of their horses. Antique dealers lined up all their rocking chairs and pushed them, one by one. The baker’s wife went to the men under the bridge; they laughed and tossed chunks of bread to the ducks. The duration of the average hug tripled. Those who once fled from the word “lover” wondered why they had been so uneasy. At the seafood restaurant, one man wiped his chin, stood, walked to the lobster tank, and turned it over, screaming: “Be free! Be free!” The lobsters clicked their claws, unimpressed. Teenagers brought boomboxes to the cemetery. They were dancing when the first raindrops fell: they held out their palms, tilted their heads to the sky, and cheered. The rocking chairs stopped rocking. The men under the bridge tossed their shoes into the water. Nursing home residents sat by the window and listened to the rain-music. The oldest began a list of everyone he could remember meeting. He wept. There were puddles now. One boy in the cemetery yelled—“Guys, make room for the ghosts!”—and they made room. And they applauded invisible breakdancers. And they were terrified.∎


**Title: No Safe Return**
**Author: Matías Guevara Ruales**
**Page number(s): 14, 15**

As violence surges at home, Ecuadorian organizers in Connecticut mobilize immigrant communities across the U.S. to secure their right to stay.



**Title: The Ecuadorian Independence Parade and the Fight for TPS**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Colorful floats descended toward the 
New Haven Green on the morning of August 
18th. Ecuadorian and American flags waved 
from motorcycles, jeeps, pickup trucks, even a 
Hummer limousine. Dancers in traditional dress 
swept into the park as vendors sold cevicho­
cho and cotton candy out of the trunks of their 
cars. Children carried their own miniature flags. 
Balloons rose, and wild honks filled the air.


As Yale’s newest undergraduates were moving 
into Old Campus, hundreds of Ecuadorians gath­
ered on the Green across the street to commem­
orate the 1809 uprising that kicked off Ecuador’s 
long struggle for independence from colonial rule. 
Each year, the local Ecuadorian community—the 
sixth largest among the foreign-born population 
of New Haven County—celebrates this holiday by 
holding a parade.


The festivities began just outside 1 Church 
Street, where the Consulate of Ecuador in 
Connecticut shares a building with a Yale School 
of Public Health research center. (The consul­
ate is one of only three foreign missions in the 
state of Connecticut, and the only one outside of 
Hartford.)


This year, leading the parade were Angélica 
Idrovo and Carlos Córdova, among other repre­
sentatives of local community organizations. They 
marched shoulder-to-shoulder, in step with the 
music. They looked determined. Together, they car­
ried a sign that read:
PODER COMUNITARIO
TPS FOR ECUADOR.


The banner was a call to action. Connecticut 
immigration activists like Angélica and Carlos 
have been trying to get the United States’ govern­
ment to designate Ecuador as a country eligible for 
Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for over a year. 
The TPS designation—enshrined in federal law as a 
safeguard for people whose home countries are dan­
gerous to return to—would protect undocumented 
Ecuadorians from deportation and allow them to 
legally seek work for a defined period. With an 
ongoing wave of gang violence and an energy crisis 
currently facing the South American nation, activ­
ists say such a measure is more than justified; send­
ing undocumented Ecuadorians back home under 
the current conditions can put their lives in danger.


Connecticut has long been an epicenter for 
Ecuadorian life and activism in the U.S. Possessing 
the fifth-largest Ecuadorian population in the entire 
country, the state is home to numerous associations 
of Ecuadorians that regularly lead advocacy efforts 
to address their communities’ needs. In 2008, this 
activism played an important role in helping to 
establish the Ecuadorian Consulate in New Haven, 
which now services migrant communities in Maine, 
Rhode Island, Massachusetts, Vermont, and New 
Hampshire, in addition to Connecticut.


In August of 2023, escalating violence in Ecuador 
prompted a group of local Connecticut activists to 
start lobbying for TPS. The campaign has since spun 
into a grassroots coalition with advocacy hubs across 
the U.S., engaging over thirty-five federal legislators 
and executive officials, as well as senior members of 
the Ecuadorian government. Their efforts have forged 
new ways for largely undocumented Ecuadorian pop­
ulations across the country to exercise political influ­
ence at the national level. 


From his office at 1 Church Street, Consul 
General of Ecuador Julio Prado Espinosa tells 
me that violence, especially extortion by criminal 
gangs, has come to surpass family reunification 
and poor employment conditions as the number 
one cause for resettling reported among the 70,000 
patrons in the Consulate’s jurisdiction.


At a national level, the number of Ecuadorians 
attempting to enter the U.S. has surged dramati­
cally in recent years. As of September 2024, 122,072 
encounters with Ecuadorian nationals were reported 
by Customs and Border Protection this year along 
the Southwest border, a 5.03 percent increase over 
2023 and a 407.4 percent increase over 2022. 


For most Ecuadorian migrants coming to the 
U.S., the only possible route runs through the dense 
rainforests of Central America before reaching the 
U.S.–Mexico border. Prior to 2021, when Mexico 
started requiring tourist visas for Ecuadorians, peo­
ple could fly to Mexico before continuing their 
journey north. Today, even if migrants manage to 
cross the perilous Darién Gap and reach Mexico 
by land, life-threatening challenges await once they 
arrive: kidnappings by drug cartels, unreliable coy­
otes, the absence of an Ecuadorian embassy to fall 
back on if things go wrong, and, at the end of the 
road, a heavily patrolled border where both Mexican 
and American agents stand ready to detain those 
attempting to cross.


Still, thousands of Ecuadorians arrive on U.S. 
soil every month, their incentives to reach a safe 
haven stronger than the military-grade equipment 
used to keep them out.


Priscila Rivadeneira arrived in Connecticut in 
2022. She is 36 years old, a mother of two girls, ages 
8 and 11, and lives in Old Saybrook, CT—just thirty 
minutes from the Consulate in downtown New Haven. 
Between twelve-hour shifts at work, afternoon classes 
at Three Rivers Community College, and the morn­
ing rush to get her daughters ready for school, she can 
barely spare the time to grant me an interview. When 
we finally manage to align our schedules, it’s Friday 
night, her one day off. “You know how it is on days off,” 
she says, “there’s just more work to do… helping out 
my sister, the girls—it never stops.” 


Priscila calls her current line—or lines—of work 
“extemporáneos.” For now, she has a relatively stable 
job, taking care of an “elderly American lady,” una 
ancianita americana. She likes it. It keeps her busy 
Saturday through Thursday. Over the past two years 
she has also had to take on work doing nails and 
cutting hair, learning through YouTube videos and 
similar self-taught methods. “I’m bad with my hands, 
really,” she tells me. “I never thought I’d be doing 
things like these for work.” 


Back home, in Ecuador, Priscila was a lawyer 
and a business owner. She lived in the Andean city 
of Cuenca where she and her husband started a car 
dealership back in 2011. She used to manage the legal 
department. She tells me a story of hard-earned social 
mobility: resettling from her rural hometown to a large 
city, getting married, starting a family, opening a busi­
ness. Eventually, the couple’s efforts afforded them 
“stability, both economic and social.” They had children. 
They traveled, both in Ecuador and abroad. They set­
tled comfortably into the ranks of an entrepreneurial 
middle class. “We were doing well,” she reminisces 
with a distant stare. “It was the fruit of our labor.”


Historically, Ecuador has been a peace­
ful nation. Even though the country is tucked 
between Colombia and Peru—two cocaine-pro­
ducing powerhouses that have long contended with 
violent guerilla forces and militant groups tied to 
the drug trade—for most of this century, Ecuador 
ranked among its more developed neighbors like 
Chile or Argentina in violence indicators.


During the late 2000s and early 2010s, the 
nation experienced the largest oil boom in its history. 
Under the administration of then-President Rafael 
Correa—who has since been convicted of bribery 
in the context of a multimillion-dollar corruption 
scheme—hundreds of public schools, clinics, roads, 
and houses were built all over the country. The poor­
est 40 percent of Ecuadorians saw their incomes grow
eight times more than the national average. There was 
the promise of a welfare state on the horizon, the prom­
ise of a repatriation program for the tens of thousands 
of migrants who had left in the 1980s, the promise of a 
bright future, and an everlasting source of export reve­
nue buried under everyone’s feet to fuel it all.


That changed in 2016, when the FARC—a 
Colombian guerilla group that controlled 60 per­
cent of the world’s most productive coca crops at 
the time—signed a peace deal with the Colombian 
government, effectively demobilizing a fifty-year 
insurgency and creating an enormous power vac­
uum in the cocaine trade. Foreign organized crime 
groups began flooding into Ecuador. Each sought 
a slice of the country’s newly competitive—and 
highly lucrative—drug transportation routes.


Collusion networks between organized crime 
groups and government officials which had formed 
under Correa and a fall in oil prices toward the end 
of the 2010s allowed criminal organizations like 
Los Choneros, Los Lobos, and Los Tiguerones to 
take hold for years to come.


In 2023, eleven days before citizens voted 
for 
a 
new 
president, 
candidate 
Fernando 
Villavicencio—a former journalist who repeatedly 
called for stronger measures against drug gangs—
was shot and killed by a group of Colombian 
hitmen as he left a political rally in Quito. The 
Attorney General’s Office found evidence linking 
Villavicencio’s murder to the Lobos gang.


Years before they made national headlines, 
however, criminal organizations like Los Lobos 
were already spreading fear through the streets of 
the major cities.


Priscila says it started in 2019, when a 
series of mysterious men began showing up 
at the car dealership asking to talk to her and 
her husband. Random cars started looking eerily 
familiar. Motorcycles constantly flashed in and 
out of her rearview mirror, trailing her like shad­
ows on the road. She began to recognize the 
same young man in a helmet around town. “At 
the beginning, you’re in your own world. You 
drive your car and you feel fine. But you start 
realizing at some point that it’s the same bike, 
it’s the same guy everywhere and it’s no coinci­
dence,” she said.


The men who showed up at the office wanted 
money. Five thousand dollars every month. 
They identified themselves as members of Los 
Choneros, a drug syndicate based in the coastal 
city of Guayaquil. In exchange for the monthly 
installments, they promised to invest in firearms, 
explosives, patrol cars—“defense equipment” to 
protect the neighborhood from rival gangs.


“I had neighbors who paid,” recalls Priscila. 
“They paid because they were afraid.” Priscila held 
out at first; five thousand dollars every month was 
not a sum her family could spare.


One day, she received a 
call about a car sale opportu­
nity in a town in Guayas, not 
far from the border of her 
home province. Transactions 
like this were common; she 
often took trips around the 
country to buy and sell cars. 
On this occasion, Priscila 
and her husband decided to 
take their daughters with 
them for a family trip.


When the family arrived 
at the meeting location, they 
found no one there. After a 
tense twenty-minute wait, 
two armed men pulled over 
abruptly 
on 
motorcy­
cle. They began to harass 
Priscila’s 
husband 
with 
threats, insults, and their 
firearms. “When I saw that, I 
swear, I thought it was all going to end there, that 
our lives were going to end,” Priscila remembers. 
“I thought those people were going to shoot us on 
the spot.” She crouched inside the car and cov­
ered her daughters’ eyes.


The men told Priscila’s husband that if he 
didn’t pay them five thousand dollars every month, 
they were going to hurt his family. They said they 
were going to kill his daughters.


The Rivadeneiras tried every possible legal 
avenue to protect themselves. They filed a police 
report. They appealed to local prosecutors and 
other authorities for protection. But Ecuador’s 
weakened law enforcement system failed to stop 
the threats. Eventually, the family decided to leave 
the country. They had relatives in Connecticut. 
They came to the U.S. on tourist visas. They 
brought as many of their belongings as they man­
aged. They left everything else behind.


“If they ask for your 
papers, and you don’t 
have them—you’re 
committing a crime. 
And you don’t want 
to commit a crime 
because you’re not 
a bad person, but 
you’re forced to do it 
out of necessity.”


At this year’s Independence parade, local Ecuadorians gather to celebrate.



**Title: VI.**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Just an hour and twenty minutes away from 
Old Saybrook, where Priscila’s family would 
eventually settle, and mere days after the murder 
of Fernando Villavicencio in 2023, Angélica Idrovo 
got a call at her home in Danbury. It was Carlos 
Córdova, an immigration organizer she knew 
through the Danbury Ecuadorian Civic Center. 
Ángelica left Ecuador when she was twelve, and 
became involved with immigration advocacy groups 
in high school. Carlos had a background in unions 
and worker’s rights associations in Ecuador, which 
expanded to include immigration work once he 
resettled.

“Anghy,” she remembers Carlos saying over the 
phone, “we want to hold a meeting to talk about 
what Ecuador is going through. We want to talk 
about the killing…We’re going to pitch the idea of 
fighting for TPS.”

Angélica replied in an instant. “Perfect, count 
me in.”

TPS confers three main benefits on qualifying 
individuals during its period of designation: 1) they 
are not removable from the United States; 2) they 
can obtain an employment authorization document 
(EAD); and 3) they may be granted travel authoriza­
tion. For some 162,000 Ecuadorians who are undoc­
umented in the U.S., these protections would be 
nothing short of life-changing.

When Priscila speaks to me about her family’s 
first few months in America, during which they 
had no official papers beyond their tourist visas, 
she is full of remembered anxiety. “I’m telling you, 
it’s like being on edge constantly, with the constant 
worry of when they might arrest you,” she says. “If 
they ask for your papers, and you don’t have them—
you’re committing a crime. And you don’t want to 
commit a crime because you’re not a bad person, 
but you’re forced to do it out of necessity.”

Indeed, the lack of legal documents compli­
cates every aspect of life in this country for people 
like Priscila. For one, it prevents them from seek­
ing legal employment, forcing migrants to turn 
to informal and poorly regulated labor markets. 
Antonio Arízaga, a New York-based activist who 
presides over the United Front for Ecuadorian 
Immigrants, tells me that some undocumented 
Ecuadorians in this country work twelve, four­
teen, even sixteen hours a day in restaurants, 
produce markets, and similar places, earning 
less-than-minimum wages. “Simply put, they are 
exploited,” he says.

A formal U.S. source of income also makes it eas­
ier to build a credit score and sign a lease. Lacking 
both when she first arrived, Priscila tells me no one 
would rent to her in Connecticut. The family had to 
relocate to Minnesota for several months to access 
a lease that accommodated their needs, and they 
weren’t able to return to Connecticut until after they 
had filed asylum claims.

Arízaga emphasizes the third benefit of TPS. It 
allows Ecuadorians to apply for a travel permit to 
return to Ecuador for urgent matters such as the 
illness or death of a family member, without fear­
ing that they will not be able to re-enter the U.S. 
Perhaps even more important than being let 
back into the country, however, is being safe from 
deportation in the first place. TPS protects benefi­
ciaries against forced removal, a crucial provision 
for people with a high risk of being detained by 
Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), such 
as immigrant day laborers, who must venture into 
busy public spaces each day to seek work. 

Without TPS, Ecuadorian day workers in 
Connecticut have to withstand repeated crack­
downs from ICE. One famous example is the 2006 
case of the “Danbury 11,” a group of Ecuadorian men 
who were peacefully assembled at Kennedy Park in 
Danbury one morning before a van of undercover 
city police officers showed up and offered them 
work. The van took the men who accepted to a park­
ing lot, where, as soon as they stepped off, ICE agents 
jumped out and arrested them. All of the men were 
subsequently placed into deportation proceedings 
based on statements they gave after being seized.

Yale Law School Professor Michael J. Wishnie 
’87, LAW ’93 led a team of student volunteers in 
efforts to get the men released on bond. “Many 
immigrants with meritorious defenses forgo those 
defenses because it is too costly to pursue them,” he 
tells me. Wishnie and his students argued that the 
arrests had violated their clients’ rights under the 
Fourth Amendment.

After five years and countless legal maneuvers, 
the YLS team eventually won six hundred thousand 
dollars from the City of Danbury and the Federal 
Government for eight of the men. It was the larg­
est settlement in the history of civil-rights actions 
brought by day laborers. ICE agreed to grant the men 
deferred action status. And yet, two of the original 
eleven men were still deported.

Today, TPS could change legal outcomes for 
the tens of thousands of Ecuadorian immigrants 
at risk of deportation who don’t have access to the 
resources and goodwill of America’s top law schools.


**Title: VII.**
**Page number(s): 19-20**

Angélica and Carlos held their first meet­
ing in Danbury in August, 2023, eight days 
after Villavicencio’s murder. About a dozen people, 
mainly leaders from local advocacy groups and cul­
tural centers, convened to discuss the implications 
of the violence in Ecuador for immigrants in the U.S. 
It was clear to them that under those conditions, it 
wasn’t safe for people like Priscila to go back.

A few weeks later, a second meeting was called. 
Then a third, this time in Stamford. About sixty 
people showed up. A fourth meeting in Danbury. 
Then Meriden. Then New Haven. Leaders from 
these and other cities like Bridgeport, Stamford, 
and Norwalk decided to form a steering committee, 
with Ángelica and Carlos at the head. Engagement 
was increasing slowly but steadily.


Then, in January of this year, the movement sud­
denly gained explosive traction—there had been new 
developments back home. 

In the first weeks of 2024, a terrifying wave of 
riots broke out in Ecuador, first inside most major 
prisons and then across the country. Gangs kid­
napped police officers, detonated explosives in the 
streets, and set cars on fire as devices of intimidation. 
In Guayaquil, a group of hooded men stormed a 
news studio during a national broadcast and pointed 
firearms at the heads of journalists. Eleven people 
died in just a few days. More than 850 were arrested.

In an exceptional exercise of executive power, 
President Daniel Noboa declared a state of “internal 
armed conflict” and unleashed the military upon the 
country’s gangs in an attempt to calm the ongoing 
riots. Back in the U.S., this created a surge of inter­
est in the TPS movement that had been taking shape 
in Connecticut. “It was in that instant that Ecuador 
met the conditions for designation,” Arízaga told me.

Under the Immigration Act of 1990, the 
Secretary of Homeland Security has the discretion 
to grant TPS to countries under three scenarios: an 
ongoing armed conflict (such as civil war); an envi­
ronmental disaster (such as an earthquake, hurri­
cane, or epidemic); and what is simply described as 
“extraordinary and temporary conditions.”

Prior to the January riots, Angélica’s team had 
devised a policy strategy to prove that the violence 
in Ecuador amounted to “extraordinary conditions,” 
a hard claim to prove due to the vagueness of the 
legal language. But Noboa’s declaration of an inter­
nal conflict prompted them to realign their plan.

“The hope now,” Angélica tells me, “is that 
Ecuador will qualify for TPS under the condition of 
‘ongoing armed conflict,’ which is far more concrete.”


**Title: VIII.**
**Page number(s): 20-21**

In 2024, Angélica and Carlos’ Connecticut-
born movement began to gather national 
momentum, converging with more recent, inde­
pendent campaigns nationwide. Angélica says 
she connected with activists from New York, 
Minnesota, Utah, and California, all assembling 
their local communities to talk about the same 
goal: securing TPS for Ecuadorians.

In January, advocacy groups in New York, 
Pennsylvania, and Connecticut delivered letters to 
Ecuadorian officials across East Coast consulates, 
asking their government to endorse the petition 
for TPS with Washington. On January 23, Ecuador 
officially requested TPS for its migrants through a 
formal petition to the Department of Homeland 
Security (DHS). However, every activist I talked to 
stressed that the Ecuadorian government’s sup­
port has been far from vigorous. President Daniel 
Noboa has come to the U.S. on several official visits 
since he took office in January, and not once did he 
speak about TPS.

On February 22, 2024, New York organizers 
secured a meeting with three members of Congress, 
including Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, to 
request their support in advocating for TPS with 
officials in the DHS. Exactly a month later, Ocasio-
Cortez led twenty-four members of Congress in 
sending a letter to Secretary of Homeland Security 
Alejandro Mayorkas and Secretary of State Antony 
Blinken emphasizing the urgency of TPS as a mea­
sure for keeping Ecuadorian immigrants in the 
U.S. safe from the violence 
facing their home coun­
try. The same week, lead­
ers from major East Coast 
cities formed a National 
Coalition of Ecuadorians for 
TPS, inviting every state with 
a TPS advocacy movement 
to join forces. In June, the 
coalition organized a march 
to D.C., with people coming 
from as far as Florida and 
Utah to voice their support 
for the cause.

Less than a week after 
the march, the coalition’s 
leaders were called to a 
meeting with officials from 
the 
White 
House 
and 
Departments of State and 
Homeland Security. At the 
meeting, Angélica said Homeland Security rep­
resentatives told her and the other leaders that a 
joint committee was working on a report to assess 
whether Ecuador qualified for TPS. As of early 
November, the coalition hasn’t heard back from 
the department.

Despite the delayed response, activists still 
hold out hope for a favorable policy outcome—
even in the face of Trump’s victory in the pres­
idential election earlier this month. They expect 
the Biden administration will act swiftly in the 
coming months to safeguard protections for vul­
nerable communities before Republicans regain 
control of the executive branch in January.

With Trump promising mass deportations 
for his second term, approving TPS before he takes 
office would provide a buffer for Ecuadorians at risk 
of being sent back to a country ravaged by organized 
gang violence. For people like Priscila, this protec­
tion could mean the difference between life and 
death. What’s more, it could endure well beyond 
Trump’s inauguration, even if he tries to repeal it. 
Trump has tried and failed to rescind TPS des­
ignations for several countries in the past: first for 
Nicaragua in 2017 and then for El Salvador in 2018. 
His attempts were challenged in federal court, lead­
ing to a 2018 injunction that temporarily blocked 
the terminations—and bought Nicaraguans and 
Salvadorians years of TPS protection, even as the 
administration sought to phase it out.

Activists hope for that sort of protection 
against Trump’s mass deportation policies for 
Ecuadorians, too. The coalition’s plan is to con­
tinue pressuring Mayorkas throughout the year.

Many will face 
deportation to a 
country overwhelmed 
by violence before 
Trump’s inauguration 
in January, and, if 
Mayorkas doesn’t 
heed the community’s 
calls, many more 
after that.


**Title: IX.**
**Page number(s): 21**

Carlos and Angélica talk to me about 
how proud they are of the concrete victories 
their campaign has already achieved: lawmakers 
they met with, letters to high-ranking officials, 
protesters in high numbers assembled outside of 
Congress. They have had to fight for every inch 
of ground they’ve gained in public life. They’ve 
known what it’s like to be undocumented.

To be undocumented is to be denied the 
same political representation as everyone 
else in the country where one lives and works, 
while still being subjected to the same laws. To 
be undocumented is to be denied the right to 
vote. To be undocumented is to be dispossessed 
of the most essential tools for political agency. 
And yet, undocumented people still find ways to 
call upon those in power.

“Someone has to speak out for us—not in 
the name of a political party, not in the name 
of any candidate, but in the name of the com­
munity, that community that’s out there on the 
ground, that wakes up early to work in the fields, 
in the restaurants,” Carlos says. “It should be us 
who put forward this proposal.”

Angélica knows how much time it takes for 
independent activism to take shape. “I’ve been 
at this for a while,” she says. “It doesn’t hap­
pen in a day.” For now, she reflects on the work 
ahead. “Something that helps me a lot,” she 
tells me as our conversation draws to a close, “is 
reminding myself that hope, at the end of the 
day, is a discipline.”

It may yet take more hope, and discipline, 
before Ecuadorians are granted the protec­
tions of TPS. Many will face deportation to 
a country overwhelmed by violence before 
Trump’s inauguration in January, and, if 
Mayorkas doesn’t heed the community’s calls, 
many more after that.

Still, though the policy outcome remains 
uncertain, the significance of the underlying 
activism should not be overlooked. Through 
the TPS campaign, this community has built 
an advocacy network that stretches across 
the country. It has shown that even though 
hundreds of thousands of Ecuadorians in 
this country may lack legal papers, they are 
not without political agency. In that respect, 
the consequences of this movement for 
Ecuadorian organizing will far outlive a second 
Trump term.∎

Matías Guevara Ruales is a junior in 
Jonathan Edwards College and an Associate 
Editor of The New Journal.

A family waves Ecuadorian flags at this year’s Ecuadorian Civic Parade.



**Don’t Ever, Ever Go Here**
**Author: Abbey Kim**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I
t started with an X-Acto knife 
and a hairdryer. About six years ago, 
outside the window on the third 
floor of the spiral staircase in Branford 
Entryway E, Kara noticed a small stone 
balcony. The perch was only about eight 
Converse wide, bracketed by shin-high 
stone walls. Two of its sides hugged 
the entryway’s curved body—slanting 
up to stone tiled roof and kissing the 
narrow window. Kara tried to open the 
window to step onto the ledge, but the 
window was sealed shut. So she melted 
the plastic with the hairdryer, X-Acto’d 
through the goo, and officially liberated 
the Branford Balcony.

Or, at least, I think that’s what hap­
pened. I’ve never met Kara. Two of my 
suitemates did, when we were first-
years and she was a senior. One of my 
suitemates remembers talking to her 
at a suite party. The other swears it was 
in a dining hall. Like the history of 
Yale itself, the story of this balcony has 
been constructed by many, often con­
flicting, testimonies.

The balcony became my I-know-
a-spot spot. My let-me-show-you-some­
where somewhere. Everybody wanted 
to show it to their friends, but nobody 
wanted it to be known. It was a corner; 
an overlook; a place to watch the moon; 
a safety hazard; a gossip hideout; a locus 
of conversation, cigarettes, alcohol, weed, 
and make-outs. 

My first-year suite joined in the 
unofficial lineage of the Branford balcony, 
conveyed mostly by passed-down stories 
and light littering. It certainly wasn’t as 
glamorous as other parts of Yale’s campus. 
Though we lived just a floor below, get­
ting onto the perch was pointedly incon­
venient. My suitemate Jamie described it 
as “super whimsical.” Kate had a different 
take: “that shit used to scare me a lot.” 
Simply put, you must:
1) Step up onto the metal handrail of 
the spiral staircase.
2) Wedge your fingers in the narrow 
window frame. Try not to worry that 
they’ll get smushed; they probably won’t.
3) Hoist yourself and pray.
“It’s kind of a collective effort to get on,” 
my suitemate Gianna explained. “It’s like: 
please hold my phone while I clamber up 
and jump up the stairs to try to get up there.”

During our time in Entryway E, my 
suite and I frequently journeyed up the 
stairs to perch on that ledge. We sat with 
the rustling of leaves, the thud of hur­
ried steps below, the constant opening 
and closing of doors in the entryway. It 
became our place—a shared spot apart 
from the supervision and pressures of 
other Yale spaces.

“It wasn’t hidden; it wasn’t private; 
it wasn’t secret,” my suitemate Kate said. 
“Yet somehow it also was.”

For as long as I knew it, the balcony 
bore remnants of this secret life. It’s been 
home to a souring bottle of red wine, 
mysterious crumpled papers, discarded 
blue face masks. Last September, it 
hosted seventeen cigarette butts, a crum­
pled Starbucks pastry bag, and a half-full 
Purell dispenser with liquid that was 
slightly green. 

“If you’re wearing white pants, you 
probably shouldn’t sit there,” my room­
mate Lauren reminded me. “And it’s not 
comfortable at all. And you don’t really 
want to lean against anything.”

In the midst of the rebellion, an air of 
fear pervaded the balcony. There were the 
rational worries—falling, getting locked 
out, staining your pants. But there was 
also a quieter hum to the space. Being 
so high up and out of sight created the 
all-consuming feeling of invisibility. 

“For the most part, if you’re up there, 
no one knows you’re there,” my suitemate 
Beth said. “Everyone walking below you, 
no one knows.”

This sense of removal, when braved 
together, turned into comfort. My suite 
and I felt free of the sterilized world of 
Yale. Our conversations moved from 
tentative high school gossip to divulging 
fears and five-year plans.

This September, Yale Facilities installed 
two shiny metal screws to either side of 
the window’s handle. A small laminated 
sign, haphazardly taped to the glass win­
dowpane reads: 
 Do Not Open Window and Use Balcony
 This is a University Violation
 Violators will be subject to ExComm
 No Questions Asked

I did, however, have some ques­
tions. When I asked Branford Facilities 
Superintendent Ian Hobbs about the 
closure, he had a simple answer: “It’s 
a safety thing…It’s just dangerous.” If 
people walked or sat on the balcony, he 
explained, they could crack the non-load 
bearing roof and create leaks. 

The balcony isn’t a balcony at all. It’s 
ornamentation, never meant for human 
feet. When Branford was built in the 
early 1920s, I doubt they planned on the 
newly minted Collegiate Gothic lending 
itself to such illicit activities. 

But students have a way of finding 
themselves in places they don’t belong. 
Hobbs remembered having the window 
screwed shut years ago. He didn’t think 
much of it again, until he saw a black 
folding chair peeking over the turrets this 
August. Apparently, the screws got loose. 

The balcony is impossible to detach 
from the splendor of Yale. For one, it stares 
Harkness Tower in the face. Everything 
about that 216-foot-tall Goliath has been 
carefully planned: each foot commemo­
rates a year from Yale’s founding to the 
tower’s construction. Climbing its 284 
steps requires an appointment—and 
supervision. Harkness and the balcony 
peer over Linonia Court, which is named, 
of course, after the Linonia Literary 
Society. Entryway E is dedicated to 
James Fenimore Cooper, one of the first 
American novelists. These spaces demand 
sanctioned activity and assert tidy mean­
ings. The balcony resists this order.

I thought about unscrewing the 
new set of hardware sealing off the 
Branford balcony. But I don’t want to 
get ExCommed. Besides, I’d be missing 
the point. It’s not for us anymore—not 
now that I’ve talked to administrators 
about it, not now that there’s a sign 
there stamped with an official Branford 
seal. Still, I’ll remember the way the 
moon looked from up there. We stared 
at it together: full and bright and con­
fessional enough that we could believe, 
even if just momentarily, that we were 
the only ones really seeing it. ∎


Abbey Kim is a senior in Branford 
College and former Editor-in-
Chief of The New Journal.

Layout design and Illustration by Alicia Gan


**Double Tanka (Storm)**
**Author: Lucy Ton That**
**Page number(s): 23**

And in the morning,
The trash will be a heap of 
Exoskeletons &
I will trace the language of
Our desire between
The knife lines you left 
In the cutting block as I
Peeled raw shrimp and you
Smashed garlic until it bled
Like the storm outside of us.



**Opening Access**
**Author: Andrew Storino**
**Page number(s): 24**

T
he student secretary, lacking  a 
real desk, sits behind a folding table 
erected to one side of the foyer. 35 
Broadway, tucked behind the Shops at 
Yale, is spacious and quiet. Cleaning 
product hangs in the air. Save for the 
small plaques identifying these rooms 
as the home of Student Accessibility 
Services (SAS), the office could belong 
to anyone.

Before I entered Yale as a trans­
fer student this fall, I had never even 
seen a public conversation on disabil­
ity. “Disability” was appointments after 
school, weekend trips to big medical 
centers in San Francisco that didn’t 
make sense to my friends, and the imme­
diate, unspoken isolation that comes 
when I am given 50 percent more time to 
complete the exam that everyone studied 
hard for. 

Now, at Yale, a vast network of acces­
sibility services is just an email away. In 
2015, SAS provided accommodations for 
720 students. Nine years later, that num­
ber has more than quadrupled. With just 
seven employees on staff, SAS now ser­
vices some three thousand students across 
the entire University. Extra time on tests, 
single dorm rooms, dietary accommo­
dations, and assistive technology, among 
many other accommodations, fall to SAS 
to administer, regulate, and support. 

Yet even at Yale, where I have access 
to previously unimaginable resources, 
where students have actively organized 
around disability, and where nearly one 
in four students receive accommoda­
tions, I hesitate to say I have found a 
community. As national debates over 
the increase in accommodations con­
tinue, they focus almost entirely on 
Critical

The SAS office is located at 35 Broadway.



**Title: Opening Access**
**Author: Andrew Storino**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
and elsewhere have argued that the rise 
in accommodations can be attributed to 
a historical lack of resource-awareness 
amongst students, and a growing num­
ber of students with long-term disabili­
ties enrolling in college.
Kimberly 
McKeown, 
who 
has 
directed SAS since 2021, doesn’t attri­
bute the growing number of accommo­
dations to any single factor but notes 
that the office saw a higher number of 
requests, specifically for mental health 
conditions, following the pandemic. SAS 
does not keep disaggregated data for 
instances of each particular disability. 
Mckeown noted, anecdotally, a dramatic 
increase in students seeking accommo­
dations for dyslexia. 


in some cases, the experience of 
receiving accommodations changes not 
only a student’s practical relationship 
to living and studying at Yale but also 
their identity.
“I didn’t have much experience 
with accommodations before I came 
here,” Nida Khan ’24, a mentor in Yale’s 
Disability Peer Mentors Program, remem­
bers. “I came to college not really knowing 
what my disability was. I was just sick and 
I had nerve pain in my hands.” 
Khan’s recognition of her disability, 
and her evaluation and diagnosis, came 
only after she had struggled with chal­
lenges she could not name.
“I progressively kept getting worse 
and worse each semester,” Khan recalls. 
“It got to the point where I realized, okay, 
this isn’t just that college is hard; this is 
something specific.” 
accommodations themselves: Are they 
effective? Are they fraudulent? 
These debates overlook another 
question. Even as more students seek 
support from Yale, these students remain 
decentralized and often invisible to one 
another by virtue of their shared hidden 
identity. With these challenges, what 
would it mean to form a community 
with disabled identity at its center?


yale’s Resource Office on Disabilities 
was founded in 1982 and renamed 
Student Accessibility Services in 2019. 
The office assisted its first cohort of twen­
ty-four students in 1983-84. Early history 
of its operations is scarce, but the office 
describes itself as established “in response 
to the growing population of students 
with disabilities enrolled” at Yale. 
This “growing population” has roots 
in the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. Section 
504 of the act mandated that “no quali­
fied individual with a disability in the 
United States shall be excluded from, 
denied the benefits of, or be subjected 
to discrimination” under any program 
receiving federal financial assistance. The 
law’s passage would have outsized effects 
on colleges throughout the country, but 
only with time. The federal government’s 
initial failure to implement Section 
504, spurred by lobbying from employ­
ers reluctant to change hiring practices, 
led to protests and sit-ins around the 
country in the summer of 1977. It was 
only after these efforts, that Section 504 
became widely known and enforced in 
schools and workplaces nationwide.
Similar spikes at institutions across 
the country have provoked responses 
ranging from concern to praise. In “The 
Chronicle of Higher Education”, James 
Madison University professor Alan 
Levinovitz called for a scaling-back of 
accommodations and pushed “study-
skill programs, peer-support groups, and 
temporary interventions” as alternatives. 
These measures, he argued, would “help 
students make it through stressful peri­
ods without giving them a permanent 
biogenetic explanation for their chal­
lenges.” For Levinovitz, the over-med­
icalization of students’ struggles diverts 
attention away from other sources of 
the difficulties they encounter, such as 
academic underpreparedness and men­
tal health, while also diminishing the 
weight of more serious medical diagno­
ses. On the other hand, advocates at the 
U.S. Government Accountability Office 


Khan was diagnosed outside of 
Yale, but began receiving accommoda­
tions via SAS. Some were common, like 
extra time on exams and extensions 
for assignments, but one of the most 
helpful accommodations was highly 
specific: an automatic door opener acti­
vated by simply swiping her I.D. at any 
door on campus. 
“People didn’t even know that was a 
thing until they saw me do it with my 
I.D.,” Khan remembers. The technol­
ogy was “a game changer” for her, “an 
unexpected accommodation that really 
helped my life.” 


that a technology so obscure has 
such a profound impact on Khan’s life 
speaks to difficulties of finding connec­
tions across such a varied identity. Rose 
Bender, a current Yale medical student 
who graduated from the College in 2020, 
came to Yale and immediately faced this 
problem, struggling to find others who 
shared her experience. The first connec­
tion she made was by coincidence.
“Through one of my extracurricu­
lars, totally unrelated to disability, I met 
somebody who happened to have the 
same chronic illness as I did,” Bender 
said. “We became very good friends, and 
decided we wanted to start a group for 
students with disabilities.” 
That group, Disability Empowerment 
for Yale (DEFY), was founded in 2017 as 
Yale’s first student-run advocacy orga­
nization dedicated to disability. DEFY 
marked the first organized effort by dis­
abled students to create their own sup­
port system, independent of University 
structures. Their goal was not to usurp or 
replace SAS but rather to provide some­
thing that SAS could not: a group that 
focused on disabled students’ experi­
ences themselves rather than on provid­
ing purely institutional solutions to their 
challenges.
Having a single banner for stu­
dents to organize under proved effective. 
DEFY was instrumental in creating the 
American Sign Language program at 
Yale and in crafting Yale’s new policy on 
accessible course materials and websites. 
Their most well-known achievement, 
however, has been the institutionaliza­
tion of two academic mentorship pro­
grams: the Disability Peer Liaisons and 
the Disability Peer Mentors.
“When I got to Yale, other groups 
had Peer Liaisons that are run through 
the colleges and set up as soon as you 


get here,” Bender recalled. “I thought, 
why is there nothing like that for stu­
dents with disabilities?”
Bender’s friendship with someone 
who shared her experience showed the 
advantages of the comprehensive, holis­
tic mentorship offered by Peer Liaisons 
at Yale’s established cultural houses. 
She wanted to ensure that this kind of 
support wasn’t left to chance. Bender 
started an informal Peer Liaisons group 
within DEFY, creating an email list and 
handing out flyers around campus. The 
first year they had “maybe four or five 
mentees,” Bender says. The program 
grew to fifteen the next year, and DEFY 
petitioned for its institutionalization 
while continuing to work as an inde­
pendent advocacy organization.
They took the informal program to 
the two offices most likely to accept it: 
SAS and the Poorvu Center for Teaching 
and Learning. To DEFY’s surprise, both 
offices agreed to host the program, and 
it was split in two: the Disability Peer 
Liaisons, which would fall under the 
auspices of SAS, and the Disability Peer 
Mentors Program, overseen by the 
Poorvu Center.
Last 
year, 
the 
Disability 
Peer 
Mentors came under the direction of the 
Office of Educational Opportunity (OEO). 
Now, while the Disability Peer Liaisons 
continue to resemble other holistic Peer 
Liaison programs on campus (activi­
ties include taking mentees out for food, 
check-ins, and advising on life at Yale in 
general), the Disability Peer Mentors are 
now trained only in academic mentoring, 
a move made by the Poorvu administra­
tion which, according to Bender, altered 
the goals of the program fundamentally: 
“It’s not being true to the spirit of the pro­
gram,” Bender says of the Disability Peer 
Mentors’ new role under the OEO. “Putting 
it under that umbrella and that group, and 
taking away our unique training and com­
munity aspects, there’s a lot lost.” 
While the Disability Peer Liaisons 
still exist in their originally intended 
form, they are only available to under­
graduate students who are registered 
through SAS—unlike the Peer Mentors. 
For those unregistered, the path to 
holistic mentorship is not clear, if it 
exists at all. 
With increased visibility, resources, 
and organization, institutionalization 
brings the risk of moving student-
centered programs like Disability Peer 
Mentors toward another service-based 
model.


when I arrived on campus this fall, I 
was overwhelmed not only by the sheer 
number of resources sent to me as soon 
as I had scheduled a meeting with SAS, 
but also that these resources came from 
Yale’s administrative offices, and framed 
what was provided in terms of “support” 
rather than “community.” In the same 
string of emails from SAS, I learned how 
to schedule a meeting with an assistive 
technology expert and be paired with a 
Peer Liaison. 
As it stands, the physical, communal 
space for disability at Yale is The Good 
Life Center at SAS, a room within the SAS 
office and an offshoot of the larger series 
of campus relaxation spaces under the 
“Good Life” banner. Improvised from 
the skeleton of administrative suites 
surrounding it, the Good Life Center is 
an island of color and comfort between 
SAS’s white walls. Sunlight streams down 
through skylights. Accessible seating of 
varying heights and styles surrounds a 
central table, where lichens creep over 
the sides of a planter. A shelf holds cof­
fee and tea.
But according to Sovy Pham, a 
junior who works as a Peer Liaison at 
SAS, events hosted there usually have 
low attendance—a challenge the Peer 
Liaison program itself shares. 
“The number of students who receive 
accommodations versus the number of 
students who request a Peer Liaison, it’s 


drastically different,” Pham tells me. 
Pham’s initial experience with 
formal accommodations, like Khan’s, 
began at Yale. With a diagnosis, Pham 
says she can explain her situation more 
easily to professors: “My ability or 
inability to complete certain assign­
ments. There’s a reason for it, for the 
way that my brain functions differently 
than other people’s.” 
“There’s this split stream at Yale,” 
Khan observes. “A lot of these accommo­
dations are actually super common. It’s 
not just people who identify as disabled. 
People get accommodations who don’t 
spend as much time thinking about dis­
ability and what it means to be disabled 
and have a disabled body.” 
Translating such a subjective and 
personal experience into a shared iden­
tity and, beyond that, into a community, 
is a difficult task. The close relationship 
between disability and the medical and 
legal mandates of student support, spe­
cifically student confidentiality and 
evidence-based approval for accommo­
dations, can make connecting with others 
who share the experience more difficult. 
“With SAS, students don’t have to 
tell anyone that they have a disability, and 
that’s everyone’s choice. This is not to say 
that SAS is opaque on purpose, but stu­
dents are empowered to make that choice,” 
Pham notes. Disability, because it is often 
defined in terms of an individual’s capacity 
rather than their outward appearance, can 
also be literally invisible, regardless of the 
rules in place to ensure privacy.
This invisibility bleeds over into 
support and advocacy spaces as well. As 
a Peer Liaison, Pham says she doesn’t 
know anyone who is a Peer Mentor, 
despite the fact that those programs 
were once one and the same. She also 
advocates for causes related to disability 
as a member of the Yale College Council, 
including an effort to create a disability 
cultural house at Yale, but does so mostly 
independently of DEFY.
“I think disability is unique as an 
identity because it necessitates institu­
tions, because it is the institution that 
determines your ability to some extent,” 
Pham muses. “Institutions create the 
parameters for how disabilities manifest.”
Pham offers an example: “I’m Asian, 
right? If I go to the AACC, or if I don’t go 
to the AACC, I’m still gonna be Asian at 
the end of the day. My relationship to my 
identity does not have to be necessarily 
tethered to an institution.” 


writing this article has been the 
only time, at Yale or anywhere else, when 
I’ve talked to others about the experience 
of disability in a sustained, non-trivial 
way. These conversations have helped 
me see how others engage with disabil­
ity: not as a barrier to be triumphed over, 
but as a way of living. At the most basic 
level, forming a community around dis­
ability would require defining “disabil­
ity” outside of a particular institutional 
transaction.
For those who want to have these 
conversations and bridge the divide 
between statistical debates over accommo­
dations and how students actually 
experience them, there is no single path 
forward. DEFY and other advocates on 
campus have called for the creation of a 
Persons with Disabilities Cultural Center 
since 2019, but with low attendance at 
existing events on campus, it’s unclear if 
a designated physical space is the larg­
est barrier to creating a community. To 
move forward, we need to acknowledge 
that the difficulties in creating a commu­
nity around disabilities may stem from 
the very institutional measures intended 
to support them. ∎
Andrew Storino is a sophomore in 
Trumbull College.



**Title: Arresting One’s Own**
**Author: Megan Vaz**
**Page number(s): 29, 30, 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
November 2024
Campus arrests last spring fractured long-
standing protections Yale has historically 
extended to student protestors.
layout design BY ALICIA GAN
PHOTOS Courtesy of Tashroom ahsan


Tacey Hutten ‘26 was asleep inside a tent on 
Beinecke Plaza at 6 a.m. on April 22, when 
her friend shook her awake to inform her 
that police officers were outside the encampment. 
Hutten and other protesters had anticipated that 
they would be arrested, but not that the police 
would show up this early in the morning. For 
three days, Hutten, among hundreds of other stu­
dents, had been occupying the plaza, protesting 
the university’s investments in weapons manu­
facturing amid Israel’s ongoing bombardment of 
Gaza, which has killed over forty thousand people. 
They had contended with threats of arrest from the 
Yale Police Department for three nights, refusing 
administrators’ orders to disperse their encamp­
ment of over two dozen tents, where they had 
hosted teach-ins, artwork displays, student group 
performances, and mutual aid support. On the 
previous day, the university offered the protesters 
a final deal: in exchange for dispersing, organizers 
would be granted a meeting with two trustees of 
the Yale Corporation, which makes final determi­
nations regarding university investments. The pro­
testers turned it down.

Hundreds of students gathered around the 
encampment the night of April 21, linking arms to 
form a protective ring. A hundred voices chorused 
into one. Just like a tree that’s planted by the water, 
they sang, we shall not be moved. 

Police waited until dawn the next day to 
announce their final dispersal warning.

As the YPD officers closed in, over fifty dem­
onstrators awoke and assumed the same protec­
tive stance, again linking arms as they circled the 
Beinecke flagpole. As the demonstrators sang the 
protest spiritual “We Shall not be Moved,” offi­
cers arrested students in rounds, picking out a few 
protesters at a time as others waited to be taken. 
Protester Kai Padilla-Smith ’25 described how 
students were made to wait shivering for over an 
hour as the tents were ripped down behind them. 
“​It was very clearly part of the university’s con­
tinued psychological pressure on student activists. 
Why are you showing up at six in the morning 
when we were all up until three rallying to keep 
you away?” Hutten said. “That is where this univer­
sity’s resources go into—the policing and criminal­
ization of its own students—as well as the funding 
of bombs and missiles and tanks that are just deci­
mating Gaza.”

Hutten didn’t resist when police officers zip-
tied her wrists, shouldering her and forty-seven 
other arrestees, at least forty-four of whom were 
students, 
through 
the 
Schwarzman 
Center. 
Spectators and supporters heckled the officers 
and cheered for the protesters as they were loaded 
into Yale buses. The buses shook from the arrestees 
stomping, singing, and cheering pro-Palestine slo­
gans inside. All of the arrestees were charged with 
criminal misdemeanors for trespassing. 

When justifying the arrests, the University 
pointed to protesters’ refusal to disperse and 
claimed that the demonstrations blocked paths to 
the Schwarzman Center.

“Prior to their removal from the plaza, the 
university spent several hours in discussions with 
student protestors, offering them opportunities to 
meet with trustees, and to avoid arrest if they left 
the plaza by the end of that weekend,” a university 
spokesperson wrote to me. 

Following the arrests, the Sumud Coalition—
formerly known as Occupy Beinecke, the coalition 
of student groups that organized the protests—
has campaigned for Yale to drop the charges via 
social media and online petitions that have gar­
nered thousands of signatures. While Yale cannot 
directly revoke the charges pressed by the state 
of Connecticut, it does have the power to ask the




**Title: Arresting One’s Own: Police Power**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
November 2024
state to do so—a move that could weigh heavily in 
the state’s decision. 

University president Maurie McInnis has asserted 
that Yale has no agency in the legal system. Weeks 
before the hearing, she told the Yale Daily News that 
the hearing outcome “really isn’t in our hands.” 
“I know people imagine it might be, but it’s 
not,” McInnis said. “Yale is not getting involved.” 

The argument that Yale cannot get involved by 
pressuring prosecutors in the cases against its students 
is perplexing, given that the University ordered the 
protestors arrested in the first place. Beinecke Plaza 
is the university’s private property, so only Yale can 
make final calls about what legally constitutes trespassing. Yale administrators—not the Yale or New 
Haven police departments, the city of New Haven, 
nor the state of Connecticut—called on police to 
descend upon the students that morning. 

Six months after the mass arrest, on the morning 
of Halloween, Hutten and forty other keffiyeh-clad 
students clustered inside the lobby of the 
New Haven Superior Court for their hearing. It 
was either the third or fourth hearing for most of 
the students, depending on whether they appeared 
at a virtual hearing in June. Demonstrators said 
that they and their lawyers pushed for continuances 
from previous hearings to pressure Yale 
into asking the state to drop the charges, a move 
symbolizing their arguments that the University 
should not have involved police and that the students 
should not have been charged in the first 
place. Yale never budged.
“The arrests were an arbitrary and abusive exercise 
of power that Yale knows that it has,” Hutten 
said. “And dropping the charges is one of the first 
bare minimum things that you can do in order to 
start to remedy that situation.”

At the Halloween hearing, about two-thirds of 
the protesters agreed to a deal in which their misdemeanor criminal trespassing charges would be 
lowered to a lesser charge of trespass infraction for 
a ninety-dollar fee.

Hutten and Padilla-Smith were among the 
two-thirds of protesters to agree to the deal, wearied 
by months of litigation, anxious about their 
upcoming appearances in front of the university’s 
executive committee, and eager to focus on campus 
activism in support of the people of Gaza. 

The remaining thirteen students declined to take 
the deal, continuing the fight to get their charges 
dropped at yet another hearing in December.

I spoke to twelve alumni involved in five different 
civil disobedience movements at Yale over 
four decades. All of them expressed a belief that the 
administration cracked down unusually hard on the 
pro-divestment protesters last spring—a break from 
the protections the university has historically provided student protesters. It is unprecedented that 
students arrested en masse spend over six months 
in legal limbo, even more so that thirteen are still 
fighting charges. And over a week after the arrests on 
Beinecke, YPD violently arrested protesters without 
direct orders from administration—setting a precedent that could compromise the safety of student 
protesters and free expression on campus. 

“It did feel strange walking around campus, 
feeling like I have been criminalized by my own 
institution,” Padilla-Smith said. “Yale likes to tout 
its student body as this politically active group of 
people that wants to make a difference in the world, 
but then when you try to actually align yourself 
with those values, they punish you.”


encampment 
A second encampment was erected on Cross Campus.


--- Page 32 ---

32
TheNewJournal
Student activists have carried a unique status throughout history precisely because they are 
students. Those attending elite institutions like Yale 
benefit from their association with powerful institutions that have long protected them from harsh 
recourse in the criminal justice system, allowing 
them to wield their privilege as a tool for change.
“It’s important, the level of privilege these students collectively—not individually—are able to 
summon in terms of attention from the media and 
historically better treatment by police,” said Beth 
Coleman ’91, a former anti-apartheid protester who 
is now a professor at the University of Toronto. In 
the hours after the pro-Palestine Yale students were 
arrested, the story made headlines in The New York 
Times, USA Today, the Washington Post, CNN, and 
dozens of other news outlets.
“These are the people who are credible and can 
risk getting bad grades, but they don’t have to risk 
losing their jobs,” Coleman continued. “They’re able 
to stand up in a principled way for things that need 
to change in the world.”

What distinguishes civil disobedience from 
other forms of peaceful protest is the act of breaking 
rules and welcoming consequences—legal, academic, or professional—to emphasize the gravity 
of a cause on a public stage. Even so, supporters 
of Yale’s arrestees have stressed that the University 
has a duty to protect its students from the potential 
violence of policing and to uphold their freedom 
of expression—even when administrators, trustees, 
and Yale Corporation members disagree with their 
actions and words.

Professor of Women’s, Gender, and Sexuality 
Studies Greta LaFleur, who serves as an attorney 
for dozens of the students arrested last spring, said 
she believes that the university’s choice to involve 
the police to quell the protests later empowered officers to crack down on students, even without direct 
orders from Yale administrators. 

“I don’t think there’s any coincidence whatsoever 
that the arrests were broadly non-violent on the 
part of police behavior on April 22, but the arrests 
on May 1 were brutal,” LaFleur said. “That’s what 
happens when you bring cops on campus to do the 
enforcement of disciplinary procedures or of behavioral policies.”

After April’s mass arrests on Beinecke Plaza, 
police confrontations with protesters had momentarily calmed, despite continuing demonstrations 
and the construction of a second encampment on 
Cross Campus, which police dismantled and dispersed after three days without further arrests.

On May 1, however, a group of demonstrators 
marched around campus, delivering speeches and 
chanting outside of then-President Peter Salovey’s 
home and the YPD station. After a YPD lieutenant 
warned protesters to disperse from the station over 
the speaker of his police car, protest marshal Craig 
Birckhead-Morton ’24 and the other marshals 
directed the protesters to leave, ushering them 
back to central campus. 

“Obviously, we took this warning seriously,” 
Birckhead-Morton said. “The police were caught 
off-guard. I think they really thought that they had 
really defeated us, so they were surprised.”

But as the group approached the walkway 
between Yale Law School and Sterling Memorial 
Library, Birckhead-Morton, who was arrested as 
part of the encampment a week prior, was confused 
to see YPD cars waiting by Beinecke Plaza. A police 
car suddenly drove directly into the crossway to 
block their path. 

Unlike the April 22 arrestees, no one had joined 
this demonstration thinking they were risking arrest. 
Unlike those who had been arrested en masse, they 
hadn’t received training on handling police interactions during nonviolent protests. It was Birckhead-
Morton’s job as a marshal to ensure protesters’ 
safety. But when Birckhead-Morton approached  
Lieutenant Chris Halstead—the same officer who 
ordered demonstrators to leave the YPD station—to 
ask how the protesters were supposed to disperse, 
Halstead grabbed him by the arm, pulling him 
towards the police car. It was Birckhead-Morton’s 
twenty-second birthday, and he had been holding 
his birthday cake. 

“I think it pissed them off that we had been able 
to sustain ourselves after everything that had happened,” Birckhead-Morton said. “The crowd [was] 
outraged, because why are you arresting people who 
are keeping the students safe?”

Protesters crowded around the car as another 
student marshal repeatedly asked Halstead why 
Birckhead-Morton was being arrested. An officer 
placed her under arrest. One person grabbed 
Birckhead-Morton’s other arm to tug him away 
from Halstead, who was eventually able to handcuff 
him. From the window of the police car, Birckhead-
Morton watched as another officer held a protester 
from the New Haven community against a squad 
car. A second officer broke through protesters and 


--- Page 33 ---

33
March 2023
tackled another New Havener. Chief of Police 
Anthony Campbell ’95 DIV ’09, aided by three other 
officers, kneeled on the protester’s back for over 
ninety seconds. The protester emerged with a bleeding nose and cut face.
“It seemed like the cops were kind of on a bit 
of a power trip,” said Rebecca Wessel ’24, a student 
organizer who was present for the May 1 arrests. 
“And maybe wanting to assert power after they had 
seen how many people were rallying against them at 
the YPD office.”

Duane Lovello, Head of Public Safety, released 
a statement on the May 1 arrests on August 26. An 
external review of the incident, it disclosed, found 
that probable cause supported each arrest, but “the 
arrests taken in total did not follow best practices,” 
including on crowd control and the disproportionate 
force used in one of the arrests.

In an email exchange dated May 4 obtained by 
student journalist Theia Chatelle ’25, YPD Assistant 
Chief of Police Von Narcisse wrote to Campbell 
that the pro-Palestine demonstrators “are pathetic 
and sad,” going on to criticize the protests as a 
“sad attempt to attack Yale” that is unrelated to the 
events in Israel and Gaza. 
“I agree 100 percent. There [sic] actions are like 
a small group of vandals and criminals rather than 
protesters,” Campbell replied. 

In response to a request for comment, Campbell 
did not answer inquiries regarding the email 
exchange or the events of April 22 and May 1. He 
confirmed that the YPD advisory committee, a civilian review board created to ensure police accountability, is no longer active and said that the university 
is “considering refinements to its scope of advisory 
responsibilities.” When Birckhead-Morton was a 
student, he was part of the committee.  

Whose Beinecke?
the occupy beinecke encampment drew in part 
from one of the most famous instances of student 
civil disobedience in Yale history: the anti-apartheid 
protests of the 1980s, in which students fought for 
Yale to divest from companies with holdings in South 
Africa. On Instagram, posts that included side-by-
side photos from the pro-Palestine demonstrations 
and the anti-apartheid protests garnered thousands 
of likes. Yet alumni told me that the details of the 
arrests and administrative responses at the two protests differed, revealing an increasing hostility toward 
student protesters last spring.” 

For ten days in April 1986, Matthew Countryman 
’86 and about twenty other Yale students slept atop 
soggy newspapers, packed together inside rickety 
wood and aluminum forts on Beinecke Plaza. 

After a year of rising dissent on campus, the 
anti-apartheid protesters set up a cluster of structures, 
aiming to resemble the poor and crowded urban 
shanties where Black South Africans were forced 
to live by the country’s white minority. Like the 
pro-Palestine protesters who erected the Beinecke 
encampment, the Coalition Against Apartheid 
activists never asked the university for permission to 
pitch up the shanties. 

“University investment was the rationale for our 
violation of the university policy. In other words, the 
university was pursuing immoral policies in South 
Africa, and that gave us the right,” Countryman told 
me this September.

The organizers of Beinecke Plaza’s newly erected 
“Winnie Mandela City” deliberately chose April 
4th, 1986, for the shanties’ debut. It was the 18-year 
anniversary of Martin Luther King Jr.’s assassination. 
It was also the weekend that the Yale Corporation 
would meet in person. Each day that week, hundreds 
gathered for rallies protesting Yale’s investments in 
companies doing business in South Africa.  

The Winnie Mandela City first came down ten 
days after it went up. The Yale Police Department 
had given a final warning for student protesters to 
vacate the plaza by midnight. Similar to the events 
of April 22, 2024, arrests happened early the next 
morning. About three dozen Yale Police officers 
descended on the plaza at dawn to arrest seventy-
two students and four New Haven community 
members. Countryman chose to go limp as officers 
dragged him away, pleading with them to not take 
him from his home.

Police loaded students into buses and took them 
to the city jail, where they were then booked and 
quickly released. 

The first round of arrests in April 1986 drew massive backlash from public figures in local and state 
politics. Within the Yale community, distaste was 
even stronger. 

Democrats from the Connecticut House of 
Representatives even proposed a bill to revoke Yale’s 
charter in the state constitution over the arrests; 
House minority leader Irving Stolberg declared that 
“Yale has clamped down in an arbitrary and arrogant 
manner… rather than encouraging dialogue.”

One hundred and fifty-six faculty members signed 
a statement expressing disapproval of Yale’s arrests of 
its students. It asserted that the university was guilty 
of “breaking an important tradition of trust among all 
members of the University community with regard to 
the free expression of divergent viewpoints.” 

The outrage produced quick results. A faculty 
committee, convened by administrators, announced 
that the university had to allow student activists to 
reconstruct the Winnie Mandela City and let it remain 
until the start of June. The permission was contingent 
on the shanties not preventing others’ use of the plaza 
as a thoroughfare or a space for other gatherings. 

In the following three days, two more rounds of 
arrests occurred at other apartheid-related, pro-divestment demonstrations.

Protesters were charged with misdemeanors, but 
about a week after the arrests, prosecutors exchanged 
those charges for infractions on their own accord. 
This time, prosecutors offered arrestees a deal: plead 
not-guilty or donate twenty-five dollars to a charity 
organization and drop the infractions immediately. 
Otherwise, the state would automatically enter 



**Title: Arresting One’s Own**
**Author: Megan Vaz**
**Page number(s): 34-35**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Arresting One’s Own
a no-contest plea in which infractions would be 
dropped in no sooner than thirteen months given no 
further legal troubles.
“With one stroke of a pen, [prosecutors] got rid 
of all those cases,” former anti-apartheid protester 
Doug Carver ’88 said. In contrast, he pointed to the 
unusually protracted legal process for the pro-divest­
ment protesters arrested last spring. “Seven months, 
that takes you from one school year to the next, one 
academic year to the next. There was definitely noth­
ing like that.”
Pro-Palestine protesters not only contended 
with a longer legal process than anti-apartheid 
protesters, but also tighter restrictions from admin­
istrators. While former university president Bart 
Giamatti told students they could build shanties 
elsewhere on campus, negotiations over the poten­
tial reinstatement of last spring’s encampments 
have never occurred. Instead, Yale adopted guide­
lines that outright banned unregistered student 
groups like the Sumud Coalition from hosting 
outdoor gatherings, though daytime demonstra­
tions and teach-ins have continued this semester. 
The anti-apartheid shanties stayed for another two 
years with sanction after their inception, only com­
ing down in the summer of 1988 when a disgrun­
tled alum set them ablaze.
Coleman, who had protested apartheid, said 
she felt that despite administrators’ “shockingly 
brittle” initial response of multiple rounds of arrest, 
they respected the practice and history of nonvio­
lent protest. Countryman agreed that he did not feel 
personal hostility toward students from University 
Secretary John Wilkinson ’60, the administrator in 
charge of addressing student protests. 
“I thought we had a very positive relationship, 
and it didn’t change when we did get arrested. In 
that sense, [Wilkinson] didn’t get angry with us. His 
commitment to maintaining dialogue and negotia­
tion very much remained in place,” Countryman said. 
Their relationship later grew into a friendship with 
Wilkinson that persists in the present; the former 
administrator attended Countryman’s wedding years 
after his graduation.
Meanwhile, current Yale protesters have felt 
that administrators openly express animosity toward 
them. Hutten pointed to a faculty-wide email that 
Yale College Dean of Students Pericles Lewis sent 
shortly after the arrests, in which he characterized 
protests as increasingly dangerous due to “non-Yale 
protesters with a known history of violent confron­
tation with the police.” He urged faculty to ask that 
students stop associating with them. In a statement 
to the Yale Daily News, Lewis later apologized for 
insinuating that the protests would become violent 
without evidence and said he erred in repeating mere 
speculation. 


“It has been made very clear to us that this 
campus isn’t for us,” Hutten said, “and that we are 
believed to be the people who are making this cam­
pus unsafe.” 
Eroding Trust
The breakdown of trust and communication 
between protesters last semester stands out in the 
history of student protests at Yale. 
Arrests during peaceful demonstrations were 
rare under the tenure of former university president 
Kingman Brewster, who sometimes spoke out on 
high-profile political issues and even participated in 
some protests against the Vietnam War during his 
presidency. In 1970, when several prominent mem­
bers of the Black Panther Party were charged with 
murder in New Haven and student activists gathered 
in hundreds to protest, Brewster criticized police for 
inflaming racial tensions. For a “May Day” demon­
stration on the New Haven Green against the trial, 
Brewster coordinated with student activists, residen­
tial college staff, and faculty to open up the residen­
tial colleges and dining halls for thousands of outside 
protesters.
Richard Levin, who served as university presi­
dent from 1993 to 2013, told me he had a personal 
distaste for responding to student protests with 
arrests. Police involvement only occurred under uni­
versity orders in cases where students occupied the 
inside of buildings overnight. Other protest-related 
arrests, often related to pro-labor activism, occurred 
primarily at the hands of New Haven police for 
demonstrations that blocked city streets. 
“Remembering that demonstrators are our stu­
dents is one important facet. And drawing clear lines 
about what is permissible expression and what isn’t 
is another,” Levin said. “It’s only when their right to 
express their opinions is disruptive and prevents oth­
ers from using university facilities or from going to 
class, or expressing their views, that it’s a problem.”
In the early 2000s, the undergraduate organiza­
tion Students Against Sweatshops protested in sup­
port of Yale joining the Workers’ Rights Consortium, 
a monitoring organization for overseas factories. 
Levin disagreed with their demands, but he dis­
cussed students’ concerns during their demonstra­
tions on Beinecke Plaza, even hosting a teach-in on 
labor conditions and international markets. When 
Students Against Sweatshops set up their own 
overnight encampments on Beinecke Plaza, Levin 
said he never felt the need to involve police, as the 
encampment didn’t block the flow of traffic or dis­
rupt daily life on campus. Police officers were present, 
but from a distance and inside their cars. According 
to Abigail Balbale ’04, a former Students Against 
Sweatshops protester, they only approached period­
ically to warn protesters about the rain or to recom­
mend they eat and stay warm.
“In retrospect, he was treating us like adults who 
he can have a conversation with, and that was treat­
ing us with a certain level of respect that I feel is less 
common in the world today,” said Balbale, who is 
now a professor at New York University. “So many 
universities, including Yale and NYU, have doubled 
down on their representation of the protests as vio­
lent and dangerous in a way that further undermines 
that trust.” 


**Page number(s): 35**

A Dangerous Precedent
today, countryman is a bespectacled faculty 
member at the University of Michigan, where he 
is the chair of the African American and African 
Studies department. As a former student protester 
and now-educator, he believes that arrests only 
worsen campus environments, universities’ reputa­
tions, and students’ overall well-being.
“I could see that there were lessons learned from 
the experience in the anti-apartheid movement, and 
the university seemed to be applying those to grap­
ple with students around issues, whether it’s pro-la­
bor protests, or the climate protests, or whatever else,” 
Countryman said. “So it’s striking that they have 
abandoned that—they’ve gone back to arrests.”
The act of deploying police to respond to non­
violent student activities sets a dangerous precedent, 
Greta LaFleur argued.
“I don’t think it is in any way ever safe to bring 
law enforcement onto college campuses as a means of 
enforcing college policy 
ever,” LaFleur said. “And 
there’s a really clear exam­
ple of why you shouldn’t 
do that, and that example 
is Kent State.”
On May 4, 1970, four 
students 
attending 
a 
largely peaceful protest 
against the Vietnam War 
at Kent State University 
in Kent, Ohio were shot 
to death by members of 
the state’s National Guard. 
The university had called 
in the National Guard 
after a series of rowdy 
demonstrations 
around 
campus earlier in the 
week. Nine other students 
were injured, including 
one person who became 
paralyzed for life.
The Kent State exam­
ple represents an extreme, 
but the potential for any 
degree of violence when 
calling in law enforcement 
cannot be dismissed. At 
multiple other universi­
ties, the police presence at 
recent pro-Palestine pro­
tests has endangered cur­
rent students, with police 
beating and pepper spray­
ing protesters and student 
journalists. At Columbia 
University, 
an 
officer’s 
gun fired unintentionally 
during an interaction with 
student protesters. 

     According to meeting minutes from a faculty 
senate meeting held three days after the April 22 
arrests on Beinecke Plaza, Dean Lewis told fac­
ulty he had lost his control and authority over the 
situation on Saturday evening, when two count­
er-protesters entered heated confrontations with 
protesters after attempting to film them. Police 
were a necessary response to escalating tension, 
Lewis said. But some faculty members pointed 
out that the arrival of police officers themselves 
to a nonviolent protest caused the escalation and a 
feeling of inevitable conflict.
“In fifty years, [Yale] will celebrate us for being 
activists and standing up for what we believe in… 
the same ways they celebrate the anti-apartheid 
movement,” Padilla-Smith told me. “But in the 
moment, we’re criminalized, excluded from meet­
ings, basically rushed out of the university as fast 
as we can be.”
Yale has taken steps to address the arrests of 
the spring, allowing students to meet with one 
trustee. The university has also changed its guide­
lines around free expression to restrict outdoor 
and overnight gatherings, chalk use, and postering. 
Yale has hired “free expression facilitators,” who a 
university spokesperson said are responsible for 
“supporting speaker events, rallies, vigils, gather­
ings, protests, and counterprotests.” This semester, 
the free expression facilitators have stood to the 
side and observed demonstrations and teach-ins 
on Cross Campus and Beinecke Plaza, some of 
which Yale agreed to sanction.
Yet many of the students arrested last fall 
continue to feel cast aside. When the Sumud 
Coalition was granted a meeting with one trustee 
in September, the Yale Corporation denied all of 
the group’s initial terms for meeting—including 
allowing students who were arrested or facing 
disciplinary charges to attend—in an email to 
organizers.
Hutten and Padilla-Smith are still students 
at Yale, where they continue to be involved with 
teach-ins, campaigns, and rallies held by the 
Sumud Coalition. They said that their relation­
ship with the school has changed for the worse. 
“For student activists, how are you supposed 
to attend classes and build relationships with 
professors, and invest in this university when you 
also have cops on every corner?” Hutten asked. 
“And then walking to class, you see the cop who 
arrested you.”
Outside of activist work and academics, 
Hutten avoids spending more time on campus 
than she needs to. Her trust in the university to 
engage in productive conversation has eroded. ∎
Megan Vaz is a senior in Pierson College.
Caption
Protestors hang a Palestinian flag on Cross Campus.


**Title: Payday: A Sestina**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 36**

Payday: A Sestina
For Balbir Singh Sodhi
Mornings spent always the same: your lips forming a line 
Like the horizon squeezing itself against the naked land until drops 
Of blue & violet bleed out. Roadrunners’ twiggy limbs casting
Zigzagging shadows. Headlights blinking awake on rolling hills. Your face 
Ripe with the morning cold. Bombay Sapphire––one shot 
Snaking down your throat. Then prepare to run 
the gift of a green card. Mama’s tears run
Through glitchy WhatsApp calls some days, the line
Cutting any hope of assurance. Some days, she takes a shot
At asking a question. “Coming home?” Her eyes drop
& then you swallow. The selfie screen a blank face
Of arrogance. Mama shaking her head. She cast
Away your dreams for her comfort. In Jalandhar, you cast
Pennies into ponds before your flight. Some run
Of luck that Mama didn’t kill you at the gate. Still face
Her reappearing questions each morning. A line
Of big burly motorbikers sliding you pennies for drops
Of espresso, which you call justification. You took one shot



**Title: Untitled Poem**
**Author: Yash Wadwekar**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
37
TheNewJournal          November 2024
Illustraton and Layout by alicia gan
& payoff’s late. But Mama doesn’t see the flu shots
& Hondas. The interstate wind combing your scalp. Casts
& crutches for you & you & you. Mama doesn’t see the desert drop
Uneven sands. Slithering canals. Little runs
Of water spilling into the front door. Doesn’t see the mop become a fishing line
Like in Jalandhar with Papa. Carp & catfish. The clock face
Fading away. The engine sputters. Mama doesn’t see you face
The pickup truck. The window rolled down, the man ready to take a shot
Five times mumbling & rumbling various lines
That the Gods in his head cast
Him to say. Mama doesn’t stop your blood from running
Down the front door. She doesn’t hear your body drop
Onto the hard tile floors. Mama doesn’t see you die. She’ll hear CNN drop
Your mispronounced name. Your face
Burnt like a ghost onto her TV & his & theirs, run
For the first time from America back to India. They will show one shot
Of your Chevron. Mama will see its neat shelves & clean tiles. Customers will cast
You into a shrine & Mama will visit it when she lands, lips a quivering line. 
Mama will face God & you will respond instead. Tear drops & blood lines
Traded for something Mama will not see: that to run to America was to cast a line & wait
For your shot––stronger than the one that Mama will blame. 


<br>

**Title: Snapshot Off the Books**
**Author: Kelly Kong**
**Page number(s): 38-39**

38
November 2024          TheNewJournal
layout design by Ellie Park
TheNewJournal
I.
O
nE SPRING AFTERNOON, Amber 
Leblanc’s fifth-grade daughter, 
Bella, came home in tears. Bella, 
who has dyslexia, had just met with her 
first special-ed teacher at her Chesire 
public elementary school. The teacher 
told her that whenever she sees her 
older sister Elisabeth, an avid book­
worm, reading, she should be reading, 
too. “To give that task to Bella is so 
overwhelming and so inconsiderate,” 
LeBlanc remarked.
It took three years of arguing with 
administrators for LeBlanc to get a for­
mal ADHD and dyslexia diagnosis for 
Bella. When LeBlanc brought up the 
problem to Bella’s teacher, she remem­
bers the teacher saying that Bella simply 
needed to “try harder.” 
After LeBlanc resorted to hiring 
an external tutor, the school claimed 
credit for Bella’s progress. It wasn’t until 
LeBlanc discontinued the tutoring ser­
vice that the administration finally rec­
ognized Bella’s decline and need for 
individualized support. But by then, it 
was too late.
Bella’s struggles in school began to 
disrupt her social life and self-esteem. 
The tears eventually devolved into tan­
trums. “She would come home and have 
insane anger outbursts,” said LeBlanc. 
“This was happening several times a week.” 
The second LeBlanc pulled Bella 
out of school and started homeschool­
ing, the outbursts went away.
LeBlanc is not alone in her choice 
to homeschool. According to a 2023 
Washington Post analysis, homeschooling 
has become America’s fastest-increas­
ing form of education. Connecticut’s 
neighboring state, New York, saw a 
103 percent increase in homeschooling 
in 2023 since the 2017-18 school year. 
Though the Connecticut government 
does not keep official records, The 
Education Association of Christian 
Homeschoolers estimated that the 
state’s homeschooling numbers dou­
bled from twenty-two thousand in 2019 
to between forty and forty-five thou­
sand by 2021.
“The steady increase in homeschool­
ers has been happening for a very long 
time, with a clear surge around early 
COVID,” said Diane Connors, founder 
and president of the Connecticut 
Homeschool Network (CHN).
This independence from a larger 
institution is part of what has allowed 
Tony’s classes to continue for so long; 
activities hosted by the New Haven 
Pride Center, for example, have been 
hampered since the nonprofit lost its 
501(c)(3) status for a few months this 
year after failing to file tax returns. 
Tony’s group, on the other hand, does 
not rely directly on institutional support; 
he offers the Saturday morning meet­
ings pro bono, paying for the craft sup­
plies out-of-pocket. Locations in and 
around New Haven allow him to use 
their spaces at no expense for him or the 
families who attend.
This surge in homeschooling in 
the state comes at a time of declining 
public school enrollment. The New 
Haven school district has seen a 12.65 
percent decrease in enrollment in the 
last decade and projects an additional 
1,740 student decrease over the next one 
(out of the current 18,877). 
Yet Connecticut’s unusual home­
schooling policy makes it impossible 
to measure exactly how many parents 
have turned to homeschooling for their 
children. Connecticut is a “no regula­
tion” state, offering zero requirements or 
oversight on its homeschooling families. 
Families are not required to notify the 
school district or state government when 
they pull their children from school.  
Connecticut General Statute §10-
184 requires all parents in the state 
to “instruct [their children] or cause 
them to be instructed” in a list of sub­
jects, including basic literacy, geog­
raphy, arithmetic, and United States 
history and citizenship. “But how, 
when, where, and with what materials 
is strictly left up to the parents,” says 
Attorney Deborah Stevenson, founder 
of the National Home Education Legal 
Defense (NHELD). 
Certain school districts in many of 
Connecticut’s neighboring states, such 
as Rhode Island and Massachusetts, 
ask for curriculum plan portfolios to 
demonstrate homeschoolers’ academic 
progress. Many also require time-to-
time in-person evaluations, standardized 
testing scores, and proof of qualification 
from parents. But Connecticut does not 
require any such proof of instruction, let 
alone proficiency. 
This lack of oversight has concerned 
lawmakers and child advocates, who argue 

39
illustrationS by SARAH FENG
November 2024
that it allows cases of abuse or neglect to 
slip through the cracks under the guise of 
homeschooling. Yet parents like LeBlanc 
believe homeschooling properly educates 
children whose learning style marginal­
izes them in public school systems. As 
the debate continues, Connecticut’s lack 
of records and regulations means infor­
mation on families’ actual homeschooling 
practices remains murky.
II.
T
o MANY HOMESCHOOLING PARENTS, 
quality educational experiences go 
beyond academics. “I’m sure my daugh­
ter could learn to read and write, totally 
fine,” New Haven homeschooling parent 
Julia Werth says. On a typical day, Werth 
spends at most thirty to forty minutes 
of structured learning time with her 
pre-Kindergarten daughter. I asked if she 
chose homeschooling because she was 
concerned about the New Haven Public 
Schools’ recent funding deficit. She 
shakes her head.
“I would be fine sending her to 
Nathan Hale [School],” she responds, 
referencing the nearest NHPS elementary 
institution. But the reason Werth keeps 
her daughter at home isn’t centered on 
dissatisfaction with public schools. She 
likes that homeschooling allows her 
individualization, more family time, 
more sleep, more play, less stress regard­
ing testing—the list goes on.
For Katie Self, who homeschools 
her 
second 
grader 
and 
pre-kin­
dergartener, family is a priority. “I 
want to raise my children and be an 
active part of their lives,” she says. 
Homeschooling allows Self to culti­
vate Christian religious and moral val­
ues, uninterrupted by routine external 
schooling. “We love God, so that is 
consistent throughout our whole life. 
We love learning, so that is consistent 
through everything we do.”
LeBlanc’s older daughter, 12-year-
old Elisabeth, left traditional schooling 
in seventh grade. She was previously 
homeschooled from kindergarten to first 
grade. Elisabeth is looking to study neu­
roscience at Yale to better understand her 
grandmothers’ Alzheimer’s diagnoses. 
Elisabeth 
participated 
in 
AGP—
Academically Gifted Program—through­
out elementary school. In her experience, 
however, AGP mostly involved sitting in 
the back of the classroom on a computer, 
learning material she couldn’t share 
with her classmates. “I think that it then 
taught her really to zone out. She dis­
sociates a lot,” said LeBlanc. Her school 
denied LeBlanc’s proposal to let her 
skip a grade. 
Elisabeth is enthusiastic about her 
transition back to homeschooling. “It’s 



**Title: Off the Books**
**Author: Kelly Kong**
**Page number(s): 40-41**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
40
November 2024          TheNewJournal
Off the Books
the feeling that you have this tiny bunk 
bed you share with someone: that’s how 
school feels like. And then homeschool 
is this giant queen bed,” said Elisabeth, 
widening her arms to gesture at the 
immense freedom.

Today, LeBlanc feels very strongly 
about schooling: “The public school sys­
tem only works for a very small percent­
age of children.” Whether in special-ed 
or gifted programs, schools leave behind 
the kids stuck on the periphery of their 
arbitrary “normal.” 

Jenn Massameno of Wallingford, 
who homeschools her two teenage 
sons, Sam and Max, credits this failure 
partially to the Common Core State 
Standards Initiative, which began in 
2010 to increase consistency in K-12 
ELA and math education throughout 
the United States. The initiative began 
with a simple idea: to create one set of 
academic expectations for all students, 
ensuring identical and consistent lev­
els of achievement for all. Common 
Core provides outlines and descriptions 
of skills students should have at each 
grade level. Its top-down, standardized 
approach, however, limits a teacher’s 
ability to adapt to student needs and 
leaves many at a loss. 

“[Common Core] was saying that 
we’re just going to teach in the middle. 
The kids who are lower? They’re going 
to get the extra help. The kids that are 
higher? Too bad for them,” explained 
Massameno.

Massameno, a former public school 
special-ed teacher, suspected from a 
young age that Sam had dyslexia and 
her younger son, Max, had ADHD. Public 
schools offer free support for such 
special needs. Yet, after observing the 
under-resourced and overstrained spe­
cial-ed services in Wallingford Public 
Schools, Massameno opted for home­
schooling. “There was no way that I 
would ever send my kid to that school.”

According to a 2023 U.S. State 
Department 
of 
Education 
report, 
Connecticut sends 6.3 percent of its 
students out of district schools into 
specialized programs for children with 
disabilities, the most of any state. While 
specialized schools certainly can help 
students with accommodations succeed, 
the high outplacement rate may also 
demonstrate school districts’ inability to 
adequately support special-ed students 
in integrated school settings. 

“It was just really disheartening,” 
said Massameno.

III. 
F
or  Many FamilIES,  homeschool­
ing goes beyond its lexicon—“home” 
and “school.” From building original 
curriculums to seeking outside activi­
ties, parents often find themselves doing 
far more than moving a public school 
structure into a private household.

Massameno explains that one of 
the most challenging aspects of homes­
chooling is finances. “There’s no way that 
we would be able to do this if we could 
not live on the one income that my hus­
band makes,” Massameno explains. 
When Massameno and her husband 
were married, Massameno chose to stay 
home with the kids, resulting in a series 
of financial decisions that enabled her 
family to homeschool: they purchased a 
smaller house, which they could afford 
on one salary; they drove used cars until 
the cars died. 

Chione Giacomarro, who home­
schools her two children, Kamy and 
Caden, recognizes the inherent privilege 
of being able to homeschool. Most fami­
lies can only choose it, she says, “because 
they have the resources to be able to 
accommodate that.”

Homeschooling 
gets 
expensive. 
Many aspects of the vibrant practice—
extracurricular sports, art activities, fre­
quent museum trips—come with a price. 
Membership for homeschooling co-op 
groups, where families come together 
once or twice weekly to offer enrich­
ment activities and community, can also 
be costly. Durbin’s friend who homes­
chools in Oklahoma receives a state tax 
write-off for homeschooling her kids. 
Connecticut, however, does not and 
cannot provide this benefit, as it does 
not keep track of its homeschoolers.

In many homeschooling families, at 
least one parent will have to fully take 
on the role of a teacher, dropping a full 
income, or, in Werth’s case, working 
part-time outside of regular homeschool 
schedules. More often than not, the 
majority of homeschooling work falls 
to mothers, who make up 82 percent of 
stay-at-home parents in the U.S. 

IV. 
C
oNNECTICUT  ATTEMPTED  to pass 
a bill increasing homeschooling 
oversight in 2019. It failed after elicit­
ing protests from homeschooling advo­
cates like Connors and Stevenson. The 
proposed legislature first arose after 
Matthew Tirado, a non-verbal autis­
tic teen, died in early 2017 after suffer­
ing abuse and neglect at the hands of 
his mother. Tirado and his sister had 
been out of school for months before 
his death. Hartford Public Schools, 
Tirado’s district, had filed reports 
to the Department of Children and 
Families alleging potential abuse in the 
household, but no response took hold. 
Ostensibly, Tirado was just homes­
chooled, and lawfully so. 

Later that year, Sarah Eagan, 
Connecticut’s acting Child Advocate, 
argued for improved protection for 
Connecticut’s homeschooled children in 
a report. “There must be a safety net to 
protect children who are victims of abuse 
and neglect from being withdrawn from 
the safe harbor and visibility of school 
and removed to a less or even poten­
tially non-visible environment,” Eagan 
wrote. She proposed that parents “apply” 
to homeschool their children, reviewing 
a student’s truancy and absence records 
and reporting any concerns of abuse or 
neglect to the DCF ahead of time.

layout design by Ellie Park


--- Page 41 ---

41
TheNewJournal          November 2024
“In a public school, if children are 
absent, they will send truancy officers to 
the home, and there is a point where they 
will get the Department of Children and 
Families involved if a child is truant,” 
said Mary Gunsalus, Lecturer at the Yale 
Child Study Center and head of Child 
Study Center School. “But how is that 
regulated in a homeschooling environ­
ment?” she asks.

It 
isn’t. 
Connecticut 
General 
Statute §10-184 explicitly requires chil­
dren under the age of eighteen to regu­
larly attend a public school, unless “the 
person having control of such child is 
able to show that the child is elsewhere 
receiving equivalent instruction in the 
studies taught in the public schools.” 
Without 
governmental 
supervision, 
however, no one can be one hundred 
percent certain of the “equivalency” of 
instruction in a home. 

NHPS explicitly states that the dis­
trict does not provide “any support in 
educating the child” once they give 
up their seat in school. This means no 
access to free coursework, technology, 
special-ed programs, nor mental health 
and counseling services that all public 
schools mandate. For low-income fami­
lies, it also means losing access to subsi­
dized meals and after-school care.

But for many homeschooling fami­
lies, the purpose of homeschooling is to 
provide an educational experience not 
equivalent to that of public schools.

Many homeschooling parents make 
the case that truants are not homes­
chooled, as they are not being educated. 
They argue that abuse and neglect, too, 
are problems separate from at-home 
education that need to be addressed 
without infringing upon the constitu­
tional rights of homeschooling parents. 
According to Connors, many homes­
choolers left traditional schools to escape 
purported bullying, physical abuse, and 
threats of violence against students. In 
her daughter Sophia Connors’ opposi­
tion to Connecticut’s 2019 bill, she asked 
lawmakers to “leave homeschoolers 
alone and to take care of the real prob­
lems that they have yet to fix.” 

For 
Attorney 
Stevenson, 
who 
founded NHELD, the battle against 
increased 
homeschooling 
oversight 
hinges on preserving parental rights to 
direct their child’s education from state 
interference. “Did we, the people … 
grant to the government the right or the 
power to grant or take away our inalien­
able rights in the manner they propose to 
do so? Then the conversation, as a matter 
of law, must end there,” said Stevenson.

Some homeschooling families in 
Connecticut say they find the state’s 
lack of oversight crucial to their practice. 
LeBlanc finds the minimal requirements 
to be “nice,” as it enables her full freedom 
in her children’s education. Werth and 
her husband chose homeschooling partly 
because they wanted to detach learning 
from the rigid standardization of testing. 
Homeschooling is not an “anti-pub­
lic school” agenda, said Connors. “It is the 
idea of facing the truth of where the pub­
lic schools are at, and not being willing 
to give the schools the time to fix their 
issues. Your child gets one childhood and 
it isn’t to be used as [the school’s] experi­
ment, because it’s clearly failing.”

V. 
A
MELIA  DILWORTH ’23  was home­
schooled from preschool through 
ninth grade. Dilworth grew up in a 
group, 
where 
par­
ents brought their kids of similar age 
together twice a week, taking turns 
teaching different subjects. Through it, 
Dilworth experienced not only what 
it feels like to belong in a community, 
but also how to construct one from the 
ground up. “You’re in an environment 
everyone kind of comes together to 
build, right? So, it’s much more than 
just going to that empty shell of a 
school building, and saying bye at the 
end of the day.” 

Dilworth reflected that as a young 
child, watching her homeschooling 
community grow also meant witnessing 
a group of women—her and her fellow 
homeschoolers’ moms—take agency and 
create a community filled with learning 
and flourishing. “I think that was really 
good and healthy for my idea of what 
women can do,” she explained. “Together, 
we decide what we’re doing, not some 
unknown group telling us what we’re 
doing. We, as a collective, make choices.” 

But the freedom that homes­
chooled families receive also presents 
its uncertainties. 

When asked about what she 
envisions for Sam and Max’s futures, 
Massameno smiled and responded: 
“You’ve hit my weak spot.” She knows, 
however, that her number one priority 
is for her sons to be happy. “That is the 
goal. How they get there? I just—I want 
to help them get there, and I don’t know 
the best way,” she explained, adding, “and 
I’m not good with uncertainty.”

LeBlanc hopes to seek out new 
STEM resources for Elisabeth. After her 
previous homeschooling group disinte­
grated, she wants to find a new group 
for Elisabeth. She may even consider 
founding one herself. ∎

Kelly Kong is a first-year
in Morse College.
illustrations by SARAH FENG



**Title: Jazz, Above Ground**
**Author: Zoya Haq**
**Page number(s): 42**

42
Black community. With the advent of 
sound recording, it spread rapidly across 
the South in the 1920s and 1930s.

During World War I, industry and 
job market growth along the Eastern 
seaboard sparked a large wave of Black 
immigration from the American South 
to the Dixwell and Oak Street neigh­
borhoods of New Haven. With the 
Great Migration, the jazz music tradi­
tion moved North, settling along the 
Eastern coastline in industrial hubs like 
New Haven.

Many new city dwellers found work 
at the local New Haven arms manu­
facturer, Winchester Repeating Arms 
Company. Amidst this revitalized indus­
trial landscape, jazz clubs began popping 
up across New Haven, serving as an out­
let for finding community and letting 
loose after a long day’s work. 

New Haven’s first club, The Monterey, 
opened its doors in 1936. Many others 
soon followed: Dinkie’s, Golden Gate, 
The Playback, The Recorder, The Foundry 
Cafe, The Democratic Club, and the 
Musicians’ Club. Most were located 
along Dixwell Avenue in historic down­
town New Haven. From the beginning, 
jazz in the city was collaborative, fueled 
by an appreciation for the shared physical 
space of Dixwell Avenue and the com­
munity-orientation inherent to the genre.

Eventually, both local and national 
names would come to consider Elm 
City their stage. Alongside artists like 
John Coltrane, Charlie Parker, and Duke 
Ellington—who would often stop to per­
form in New Haven between Boston and 
New York while on tour—local artists, like 
the Buster Brothers, Reginald Jackson, 
and Allen “Rubbs” Wilson, fueled and fed 
the jazz scene in New Haven.

Yet by the 1990s, this scene was 
growing smaller. Throughout the 1980s, 
the majority of the clubs along Dixwell 
had shut their doors due to bankruptcy, 
as well as a series of drug-related busts at 
clubs like the Foundry Cafe. Many New 
Haven musicians began moving to New 
York in search of greater opportunities. 

Today, Dixwell Avenue looks dif­
ferent. Former clubs are boarded up; 
“For Sale” signs populate the street. 
The building that used to house the 
heart and soul of New Haven jazz, the 
Endnote
I
’m right in the swing of things.
Literally—in the swing of it all. 
The ups and downs of the melodies, 
the croon of the trumpet, the thrum of 
the bass, and the echoes of the drums. It’s 
a Tuesday night, but New Haven’s Cafe 
Nine is alive. Flanked by posters adver­
tising Coca-Cola products and maps of 
the city’s historic downtown, local gui­
tarist Ed Cherry is soulfully strumming 
on the stage, playing a slow rendition of 
“Peace” by Horace Silver. He’s flanked 
by his ensemble: together, they form a 
trio of the bass, the drums, and Cherry 
on the strings. His eyes are closed. The 
crowd in front of him is enraptured. The 
room is silent, save for the music.

Tonight is one of Cafe Nine’s sig­
nature jazz shows, held in partnership 
with the New Haven Jazz Underground. 
Located on State Street, Cafe Nine hosts 
live music shows seven days a week with 
the goal of supporting emerging artists 
in the greater New Haven area. Twice 
per month, on Tuesday nights, local jazz 
musicians take the stage at the 34-year-
old venue.

Here—alongside other local bars like 
The Cannon and Three Sheets—the spirit 
and collaborative energy that have defined 
New Haven’s jazz music scene since the 
turn of the 20th century remain alive.

New Haven has always been a jazz city. 
Born out of the New Orleans swing and 
blues scene, jazz was originally a mech­
anism of expression for New Orleans’ 
1.
11.
Cafe Nine’s New Haven Jazz Underground.



**Title: New Haven's Jazz Scene: A Thriving Underground**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 43-44**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
--- Page 43 ---

43
TheNewJournal          November 2024
After college, Di Maria decided to set­
tle in New Haven to pursue a career as 
a music educator. While he didn’t expect 
to plant roots in Connecticut, he ended 
up investing in the vibrant music scene 
and became a local teacher. “The rest was 
history,” he reflected.


Di Maria sees jazz as a lifeline for 
himself and for the city. To him, jazz in 
a smaller town like New Haven fosters 
a strong sense of community. “Philly, 
Wilmington, Tampa, Pittsburgh, they’re 
all similar cases to New Haven. You don’t 
have to be from New York to grow up 
with this music, to grow up in a jazz city,” 
Di Maria said. “The Underground is try­
ing to preserve that spirit, trying to keep 
that idea going that jazz doesn’t have to 
just thrive in a major metropolitan area. 
It could be somewhere like your own 
town, you know.”


The Underground defines itself as 
a “grassroots, community-based orga­
nization” that hosts clinics, shows, and 
jam sessions with locally and nationally 
renowned musicians at venues like Cafe 
Nine, The Cannon, and Three Sheets 
multiple times a month. Traditional 
event series like Tuesday Night Jazz 
at Cafe Nine fuel a symbiotic rela­
tionship between local musicians and 
the Underground, who count on the 
Monterey, is now a distant memory—
peeling crimson paint, graffiti tags, and 
wooden beams cover up what was once a 
national jazz hub. 


Conscious of this history and des­
perate to keep New Haven jazz alive, 
organizations like Jazz Haven, founded 
in 1996, and the New Haven Jazz 
Underground, founded in 2006, began 
working to preserve the spirit and legacy 
of the genre in the city. 


Jazz Haven is a not-for-profit orga­
nization that organizes jazz festivals and 
listening events around New Haven, 
such as weekly jazz listening nights at 
the Institute Library on Chapel Street.


Meanwhile, according to its founder, 
Nick Di Maria, the New Haven Jazz 
Underground’s goal is to “preserve and 
flourish jazz culture” by hosting weekly 
jazz shows around the city.


111.
Di Maria, a musician himself, started 
playing the trumpet in 1994.
 To put it simply, he said, he instantly 
“fell in love” with the instrument—and 
with jazz. 


While he grew up just outside of 
New Haven, he visited often to see 
his uncle and fell in love with the city. 
Underground to find gigs within the New 
Haven area, as well as between musicians 
and the greater New Haven community.


Back at Cafe Nine, Di Maria intro­
duces Ed Cherry’s performance. 
“New Haven is a jazz city, through 
and through,” Di Maria says. “We’ve got 
to keep that alive. Thank you to Ed for 
coming out and performing here tonight. 
A true jazz legend.”


1v. 
Ed Cherry was born in New Haven. 
He moved to New York in 1978 to 
play guitar for jazz legend Dizzy Gillespie 
for 14 years. After Gillespie’s death in 1993, 
he began his solo career. On stage, Cherry 
is suave, cool, and collected. His guitar is 
like an extension of self, a phantom limb. 
When he’s performing, he and his instru­
ment are one.


The crowd at Cafe Nine this October 
evening feels familiar. It’s clear that many 
audience members know one another; 
they catch up over a beer at the bar as 
Cherry and his band play on stage. Warm 
lights flicker as the crowd murmurs.  
After the show, a line of people queue 
up to share a word with him. Some are 
old friends; some are fans; some are fel­
low musicians inspired by his craft.

Layout design by Lauren yee | photography by gavin guerette
The Cannon’s New Haven Jazz Underground.


--- Page 44 ---

44
November 2024          TheNewJournal
“I’m a guitar player, too,” a mid­
dle-aged, bespectacled man tells Cherry. “I 
just got back from picking up my daugh­
ter from school, man, but I knew I had to 
make it here before the show ended.”


Other audience members chime in, 
nudging their way toward Cherry, who, 
at 6-foot-5, towers over the crowd. “Great 
show, Ed!” “What a talent.” “Nice to see 
you, man.”


Cherry’s mastery of the strings, to be 
frank, intimidates me. Watching him play, 
I’m catapulted back to mornings spent on 
my childhood bedroom floor, plucking 
away at my Yamaha acoustic in my des­
perate yearning to translate my 15-year-
old thoughts into music form. I plucked 
and strummed and tapped my finger 
against the body of its bronzed wood on 
the daily. I never got very good. Cherry’s 
playing—the dynamics of it, the soul—
contains deep emotion and reflection. 
The music he plays is alive.


I muster up the courage to get a 
word in. “Awesome show,” I say. “I’ve 
been learning guitar for a few years now. 
You’re a master.” Cherry smiles warmly, 
nods. “That’s great.” He coughs, turns. 
“Keep it up.” Then he walks to the bar, 
sits down alongside the audience mem­
bers—friends, family, and community 
members—waiting for him, and orders 
himself a drink. ∎


Zoya Haq is a sophomore in 
Saybrook College.

Top: Cafe Nine’s New Haven Jazz Underground.


--- Page 45 ---

45
photography by gavin guerette
 Bottom: The Cannon’s New Haven Jazz Underground.



**Title: No Safe Return**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 48**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
As violence surges at home, Ecuadorian organizers 
in Connecticut mobilize immigrant communities 
across the U.S. to secure their right to stay.


**Title: Off the Books**

Connecticut’s lack of homeschooling regulations 
has sparked concerns about abuse and neglect–but 
some parents say state oversight would violate their 
freedom to educate their children.


**Title: Opening Access**

As the number of students receiving accommoda­
tions from Student Accessibility Services rises, what 
would it look like to form a community centered on 
disabled identity?



Have an anniversary?
Aced that exam?
Rocked that performance?
Come celebrate at Claire’s!
1000 Chapel St, New 
Haven, CT 06510
Welcomes back 
students! Enjoy 10% 
off with Yale ID*
721 Orange Street, 
New Haven, CT, 06511 
203-865-1147
*offer valid until Dec 20



**Title: About The New Journal**
**Page number(s): 47**

The New Journal was founded in 1967, under the following mission statement: “This university has once again reached that stage in 
history when people are talking about the New Yale, presumably to be distinguished from the Old Yale, which in its own day was 
presumably considered new. Wishing to share in this modernity, we have chosen The New Journal as the name for our publication. 
Besides, things seemed slow around here.”
Today, The New Journal is published five times during the academic year by The New Journal at Yale, Inc. One thousand copies of each 
issue are distributed free to members of the Yale and New Haven community. The New Journal is printed by TCI 
Press, Seekonk, Massachusetts; bookkeeping and billing services are provided by Colman Bookkeeping of New 
Haven. Office Address: P.O. Box 3311, New Haven, CT 06515.
While this magazine is published by Yale College students, Yale University is not responsible for its con­
tents. All contents Copyright ©2024 by The New Journal at Yale, Inc. All rights reserved. Reproduction 
either in whole or in part without written permission of the editors in chief is prohibited. Recycle Icon 
from Flaticon.com.


**Title: TNJ Crossword**
**Author: Jem Burch**

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS (SEPTEMBER) PUZZLE
PLAY MORE TNJ 
CROSSWORDS ON
OUR WEBSITE!
P
L
E
A
S
 
R
C
Y
 
T
H
I
 
M
G
Z
N
ACROSS
	
1	 Met people?
	 10	 Scraps
	 14	 Many caves formed by 
volcanic activity
	 15	 “Mr.” of old TV
	 16	 Lower
	 17	 Smooth operators?
	 18	 A, in Aachen
	 19	 Moving picture, of a 
sort
	 20	 Sole part
	 21	 Egg carton?
	 22	 Video game with a 
trans protagonist
	 24	 Depression-era org.
	 25	 Personal pronoun
	 27	 Shop tool
	 28	 Abandon the old you, in 
a sense
	 29	 What the CROWN Act 
protects	
	 33	 Breaks free from the 
rat race
	 34	 “Gee willikers!”
	 35	 Corporate complex
	 36	 Prevent friction, maybe
	 37	 Chance to strike
	 41	 Offering in some 
gardens
	 42	 “I’ve got nothing to 
add!”
	 45	 Altar words
	 46	 Web structure
	 48	 Knavish sort
	 49	 Designer Michael
	 50	 Low-lying landform
	 51	 “You’re telling me!”
	 53	 Amulets used in 
Hoodoo
	 54	 Pickup line?
	 55	 Small projection
	 56	 Built an extension, say
	
	
DOWN
	
1	 First in line, often
	
2	 Persona non grata 
	 3	 Indicate
	 4	 Glowing, in a way
	
5	 Killed it
	 6	 Do some  
guesstimation
	
7	 Bubbling 
	 8	 “Adding that to my list 
of phobias.”
	 9	 Personal fig.
	 10	 Slot line
	 11	 “Let me take over.”
	 12	 Empathic denial
	 13	 Strong scrubber
	 15	 “I call dibs!”
	 20	 “Seems fine.”
	 22	 Wildly improbably
	 23	 Protagonist of “In 
Search of Lost Time”
	 26	 On the whole
	 28	 “Don’t censor yourself!”
	 30	 Big kahuna
	 31	 Bolt found on the tracks
	 32	 “Papa Bear” of Chicago 
Cubs fame
	 33	 Response to a funny text, 
maybe
	 34	 Ice cream brand known 
for its use of sugar 
substitutes
	 35	 Addresses that may be 
contracted
	 38	 Scientific name for 
Vitamin B7
	 39	 Lacking in direction
	40	 Pitch at
	 42	               Sjoberg, 
pseudonym used by 
Taylor Swift
	 43	 Ready to play, in a sense
	 44	 Destabilize
	 47	 Oodles and oodles
	 49	 Metric unit
	 51	 Garten of the Food 
Network
	 52	 Gumball?
Gee Willikers!
© The New Journal
November 2024
