Publication date: 10/83
Volume 16, Issue 2

**Title: Life and Death at the Grove Street Cemetery**
**Author: Anne Applebaum**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Across the street from the Law School's back door stands a massive stone gateway. The slogan over its archway seems to forbid entrance: "The Dead Shall Be Raised." Yet if you gather the courage to walk underneath, you enter another world. You have no more deadlines, no appointments to keep, no people to see. You have left Yale. You have entered the New Haven City Burial Grounds, the Grove Street Cemetery.


If you walk past the cemetery chapel, you might run into a small man raking leaves or trimming hedges. Bill Cameron is as weather-beaten and grizzled as the stones he cares for. Yet he wears a peddler's cap tilted at a surprisingly cocky angle for a cemetery groundskeeper. When he speaks, his voice reflects a cheerful absence of morbidity. 
"I like working here. It's peaceful, and I have a lot of time to think." 
Cameron gathers a few stray sticks. "I remember once we had a man here- temporary help. After three days he said he'd made the most important discovery of his life. Said he'd discovered that rich or poor, everybody ends up in the same place. It's true too. No one here can pretend he's better than anyone else." 
But the Grove Street Cemetery does contain a disproportionate number of the wealthy. Anyone familiar with New Haven geography could recognize more than a few of the names on the gravestones: Hillhouse, Ashmun, Woolsey, Farnam, Bingham. It was James Hillhouse himself, Yale class of 1773, who made the original decision to build the cemetery in response to the "many inconveniences the citizens of New Haven have experienced from the small portion of ground allotted for burial of the dead." Until that time New Haven had buried its dead on the ·Green in the center of town. Children and dogs could play freely among the gravestones there, and because no one bothered to care for them, the stones had become crooked and unsightly. So like the good New England Yankee that he was, James Hillhouse called a town meeting in 1796, took up a collection, bought two farms on the outskirts of town, sold plots and established the New Haven City Burial Grounds. 
Ceremoniously, the remains of the more prominent citizens buried under the Green were moved to the crypt of Center Church. A few still remain unmarked and forgotten beneath the Green. 
The Grove Street Cemetery was one of the first American cemeteries to sell family plots by contract, making it also one of the first corporations in America. "Back then it mattered that you were near your family," says Cameron. "No one wanted to be left without his relations. I feel the same way, and I hope my children will, but I don't know whether young people today still do." Cameron walks over to one of the larger family plots and smiles. "Now there's someone who cared who remembered him." He points to Henry Trowbridge's tombstone, a 40-foot obelisk that towers over the other graves. Cameron shrugs. "Competition. Keeping up with the Joneses." 
The most famous graves in the cemetery are often the most modest. Nothing but a name and date appear on Noah Webster's grave. Another tombstone reads simply, "Charles Goodyear- Inventor." Most of the modern graves are also very plain, but Cameron says that's for another reason. "It costs too much," he explains. "People just don't care enough anymore." 
A few of the plots at Grove Street still have iron railings around them originally built to keep the cows out. But the citizens of New Haven had most of these railings removed during World War II. "The iron has to be converted into munitions of war to be hurled by the allies at the .Japs and Hitler," explained the New Haven Register. "Lots of uses for a few pieces of iron," says Cameron. 
Cows had ceased to be a problem on Grove Street by 1845 when the city of New Haven and its Volunteer Ladies Charity Fair pooled together enough money to erect the stone fence around the burial ground that stands today. A compromise between various religious groups resulted in the "Egyptian-style" gateway, a seemingly incongruous choice for a Puritan New England town. Yale History of Art Professor Vincent Scully notes the "machine-like interpretation of the originally graceful Egyptian columns. They are ridged like gears, not a surprising phenomenon in the industry-minded 19th century." 
Less explicable is the strange motif crowning the gateway. The symbol combines the hawk wings of the Egyptian sun god with the intertwining serpents emblematic of the pharoahs of the Upper Nile. The symbol appears in one other place at Yale: over the fireplace in the old fraternity house of OKE, now the AYA building on York Street. OKE was founded at approximately the same time as the gateway's construction. The inscription above the symbol, "The Dead Shall Be Raised," inspired Yale President Arthur Hadley to comment in 1845: "They certainly


There are two plots exclusively for Yale faculty at Grove Street directly alongside plots given to the New Haven churches. Yale Historian Loomis Havemeyer suggested that the proximity of these plots proves that "academic and spiritual blood now flows through the same veins. Church and college are together in life and in death not divided." 
One incident in 1824 almost did rupture Yale's amicable relationship