Publication date: December 1, 1995
Volume: 28
Issue number: 3

**MASTHEAD:**
- Publisher: Christina Lung
- Editor-in-Chief: Suzanne Kim
- Managing Editors: Kathrint Bell, Kate Schuler
- Business Manager: Audrey Lnbovich
- Designer: Horting Wong
- Production Manager: Gabriel Snyder
- Photography Editor: Brendan Kotrntr
- Contributing Editor: joshua Civin
- Associate Publisher: Min Chen
- Associate Editors: Benjamin Lump/tin, Hillary Margolis
- Research Director: Karen Jacobson
- Circulation and Subscription Manager: Dan Murphy


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- Prize Flies - Karen Jacobson
- I'll See You in Court - Michelle Chihara
- Crossing the Une - Gabriel Snyder
- The Family Campus - Caroune Adams
- The Vanguard of the New NAACP - Hillary Margolis
- Letter to the Editor
- About this Issue
- Points of Departure


**Title: Prize Flies**
**Author: Karen Jacobson**
**Page number(s): 7**

A Nobel Prize winner in medicine, Eric Wieschaus, reflects on his Yale 
grad days, campus politics, and the embryonic wonders of fruit flies. 


**Title: I'll See You in Court**
**Author: Michelle Chihara**
**Page number(s): 12**

Schiavone Realty and Development Corporation will use any legal means 
necessary to retain its vision of the Chapel-College business district. 


**Title: Crossing the Une**
**Author: Gabriel Snyder**
**Page number(s): 16**

One student's death raises disturbing questions about the myths and 
realities of heroin use at Yale. 


**Title: The Family Campus**
**Author: Caroune Adams**
**Page number(s): 22**

New Haven's effort to make its neighborhoods self-sufficient and efficient 
rests on the foundation of its elementary schools. 


**Title: The Vanguard of the New NAACP**
**Author: Hillary Margolis**
**Page number(s): 26**

'Wearing two hats, young Roger Vtznn revitalizes the New Haven NAACP 
chapter and brandishes his straight-talking style over the air waves. 


**Title: Letter to the Editor**
**Author: Daniel Lyons (SM '98)**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
To the Editor: 
This is in regard to the article "The Tap 
Night Riots" (TN], October 13, 1995) by 
Whiffenpoof/Duke's Man Alex Funk. 
This is written to oppose negative 
implications and a blatant lie in the article 
regarding the Master and Dean of Silliman 
College, Drs. Kelly Brownell and Hugh 
Flick, both of whom were in the Silliman 
courtyard until at least 2 a.m. on Tap Night. 
They were both responsibly refereeing, or 
baby-sitting, if one prefers, the events in 
Silliman that night. They were doing their 
best to prevent any violence or other acts 
which they viewed as undesirable and 
unacceptable. 


Let me make it clear that this is not a 
defens~ of my own actions with respect to 
Tap Night or my reputation jn general 
("arguably the highest-ranking aqua-general 
on Yale's campus," "largely responsible for 
the impressive crowds of nearly 300 gathered 
inside Silliman"). I, confident of the 
intelligence of Yale students, shall let this 
stand as it already does in the mind of the 
Yale Community. This shall. however, 
present a negative view of Mr. Funk's 
journalistic talents. In my opinion, Mr. 
Funk tried to make a largely subjective 
article appear objective by choosing certain 
facts, speculations, and, in one case, lies 
while not including others according to his 
biased view. 


The article claims: "Under the watchful 
eye of Silliman Master Kelly Brownell, 
Daniel has distributed flyers and posters 
inviting Sillimanders to come out and 
defend their college from singers." These 
posters and flyers were distributed without 
prior consultation with Professor Brownell. 
He was completely ignorant of my making 
and posting this publicity. He, in no way, 
direcdy or indirecdy, permitted, promoted, 
or condoned these posters and flyers. 


Besides this outright lie, the article made 
what might be interpreted as negative 
implications regarding the Master and Dean: 
"Hugh Flick is confident that no harm 
can come &om safely played water sports." 
Dean Flick personally made sure that no 
harm came and that the water play was safe. 
This is an understatement by Mr. Funk of 
Dean Flick's actions with respect to Tap 
Night. 


"A member of Something Extra and 
Whim 'n Rhythm called Dean Hugh Flick 
today in hopes that he would somehow 
discourage the pending assault. He has done 
nothing" of the sort." It is not Dean Flick's 
responsibility to discourage the so-called 
assault. Dean Flick took action by 
distributing his Rules of Safe Water Play and 
being present to ensure those rules were 
followed. Had Dean Flick taken a 
discouraging 
role 
as 
this 
singer 
recommended, the water plans would not 
have stopped. The only result his 
discouragement, had it occurred, would have 
had would have been to weaken h1s 
command and authority of the students on 
Tap Night. 


"Kelly Brownell expresses no public 
remorse over the mob scene that took place 
in his college." Without commenting on the 
subjectivity of the term "mob," this sentence 
is ridiculously biased. Kelly Brownell 
publicly expressed no opinion over the 
activities that took place in the Silliman 
courtyard on tap night. That is what an 
obJective article would have said. Instead, 
the author here implies that Kelly Brownell 
should have shown public remorse over the 
event. The article failed to mention that 
Kelly Brownell also showed no public 
commendation, paranoia, affection, thirst, 
pride, extreme mental depression, or 
anything else over Tap Night. 


Thus I defend the actions of Master 
Brownell and Dean Flick on Tap Night in 
Silliman, who were there to promote the 
safety of both the singers and Silliman 
students. Luckily, explicidy due to the efforts 
of Master Brownell and Dean Flick, the 
cheerful singers all excited &om Silliman no 
more hurt than they were upon entrance; 
they were, perhaps, a bit more wet. 
-Daniel Lyons (SM '98), founder, 
promoter, and member of ~.P.L.A.S.H. 
(Soak and Punish Lousy A capella 
Singing Hordes). 


**Title: The Turducken Metaphor**
**Author: The Editors**
**Page number(s): 5**

We're always searching for that perfect metaphor to describe an issue of 
TN]-that one image that encapsulates a cadre of diverse narratives, 
profiles, and witticisms. This December, we turn to that favorite of 
discriminating Thanksgiving diners: the turducken. According to a 
staffer's Aunt Bonnie's interpretation of the renowned chef Paul 
Prudhomme's recipe, the creation of a turducken calls for: 
1 large turkey (boned) 
1 duck (boned) 
1 chicken (boned) 
heaps of 3 different stuffings: sausage, cornbread, and wild rice 
1 hammer 
1 sewing kit 
oven, spices, etc. 
To construct a turducken, first lay open the turkey's body, and fill it 
with sausage stuffing. Then lay the duck on top and cover it with 
cornbread stuffing. Next, place the chicken upon the cornbread stuffing 
and cover it with wild rice stuffing. Finally, sew the whole thing up and 
leave it to cook for 13 hours. If all goes according to plan, you will be left 
with a complete turducken, a bird whose name hints at its mixed heritage. 
Served up, it resembles a bloated, limp turkey. Cut open, it reveals the 
various layers of bird and stuffing, neatly divided. 


The metaphor waxes on ridiculous, bizarre, perhaps even a tad bit 
grotesque-but it's all in the attempt to describe a true labor of love. In 
the cover story for this issue, Gabriel Snyder peels away layers of 
scandalous myth and administrative denial to uncover the ripples of 
heroin use at Yale. Karen Jacobson takes us inside the idiosyncratic mind 
of a onetime Yale graduate student and recent Nobel Prize winner, while 
Hillary Margolis culls from an activist radio personality and NAACP 
leader a vision for the future of Greater New Haven's black community. 
And Michelle Chihara unravels the tangle of legal controversy 
surrounding Schiavone Realty and Development Corporation to evaluate 
tenant-landlord relations in the Chapel Street business district. And if you 
are not satiated by this scrumptious fare, we welcome you down to TNfs 
office at 252 Park Street to help us cook up the next installment. 
-The Editors 
DECEMBER I, 1995 


penns 
colors 
, 
,4~4-
APIZZA 
• Eat in or toke out 
• Fresh Baked Breads 
~IWIP • Colzones/Subs/Dinner 
• Catering For All 
_.!~:=:e!!::::~ 
Occasions 
Amato Semordo, Prop. 
858 State Street • New Haven 
562-2760 



**Title: An Illicit Trim**
**Author: Alec Bemis**
**Page number(s): 6**

An Illicit Trim 
Haircutting is like prostitution. Well 
okay, it's like that at Yale at least. Not for 
everyone mind you, but many people at 
Yale understand what it is to engage in the 
anonymous endeavor of getting a haircut 
on demand on some random weekday 
afternoon. 


You shove open the front door of some 
characterless 
barbershop. 
(Usually 
something like Harry's or Moe's or 
Phil's ... whatever.) Ding dong! That 
automatic bell at the front door rings, and 
your initial excitement at the prospect of 
finally getting business done turns into 
fear. Geez, you're actually going to have to 
spend time with a face you've never met 
before. 


By now the bell has readied the troops. 
The man or woman at the back of the 
shop, currently engaged in idle chatter, 
comes to attention and yells to the front, 
"What can I do for you?" 


Come on now, you think. We both of 
you know what I walked in for. 
"Uhhh ... just a haircut." 


It's impossible not to be sheepish. I 
mean you barely know this person who is 
about to get intimate with your forehead. 
"Sit over here," they say. They've tread 
this path before and they'll do it again. 


So you sit in the hydraulic chair. Pump, 
pump, pump. You are instantly put on equal 
footing. A snip here. A snip there. The 
barber/hairdresser always knows what you 
want. Just a trim ... about a half inch off the 
top and sides. Just enough to tide you over 
until the next trip home. You have a 
regular at home and you wouldn't want 
some fly-by-night cutter to ruin that 
relationship. Little do you know that you'll 
soon tire of the hairdresser at home and 
dump them for monthly appointments in a 
series of drab New Haven barber shops. 


You never talk to the person furiously 
snipping away at your head. You've tried to 
before, but it never worked out. Neither 
one of you is really all that interested to get 
involved. 


Within 15 minutes you have paid your 
$15 and you're out the door. That 
mysterious stranger you shared the last few 
minutes with wouldn't want you to take up 
too much of his or her precious time. They 
have more young men to cut that day. 
I, at least, usually take the free comb on 
the way out. 
- Alec Bemis 



**Title: Ulmus Americana**
**Author: Hamsa Murthy**

Ulmus Americana 
Elm trees line the sides of the streets of 
the Elm City, and the buildings and 
students emerge from what seem like 
tunnels of elms. The long, slender, 
perfectly 
columnular 
trunks 
are 
discerp.able, but which upper branch is 
progeny to which trunk is often ~eautifully 
ambiguous. 


There is nothing quite like the 
American elm, old Ulmus americana. 
Nathaniel Hawthorne, that puritanical 
scrivener, could not get enough of them. 
"Our trees 'high over-arched with echoing 
walks between' have the Greater 
resemblance to the Gothic aisle of a 
cathedral." Scarce a tree-lined cathedral 
remains in the old Elm City. But in case 
you were to doubt Hawthorne's elaborate 
similes, flip through late nineteenth and 
early twentieth century photographs ofYale 
and New Haven. 


According to the calculations of a 
neophyte, there are eight American elm 
trees on Old Campus. The elms, most of 
which are between 75 and 95 years old, are 
generally taller than the other Old Campus 
trees. They have high, vase-like silhouettes 
composed of thin branches pointing 
upward or drooping toward the ground. 
The deciduous elm leaves are like imperfect 
footballs, having neatly toothed edges and 
bilateral asymmetry. 


Paul Walgren of Walgren, the Care of 
Trees, in Hamden, has been the godfather 
of Yale's trees for 45 years. According to 
Walgren, many of the elms which 
dominated New Haven have been replaced 
with oaks and other varieties of trees 
during the last 20 years. During the 1950s 
and 1960s Dutch elm disease devastated 
the Yale and New Haven landscapes. Yale 
lost eight to ten trees on Old Campus 
alone. 


According to Walgren, Dutch elm 
disease has been the most severe problem 
for Yale's arboreal resources during the last 
45 years. Dutch elm disease is carried by a 
beetle which chews through the elm tree's 
bark and deposits a fungus in the vascular 
tissue of the tree. The fungus blocks water 
vessels to the upper part of the tree, and 
the tree starves. From May to late August, 
Walgren and members of his staff inspect 
Yale's elms every two weeks for "flags": the 
brown or yellow leaves symptomatic of the 
disease. If the disease remains undetected, a 
90-year-old tree could fall in less than three 
years. But Yale, committed to preserving its 
arboreal heritage, still plants and carefully 
monitors its young American elms. 


As one enters Old Campus, one of 
Yale's tallest elms stands on the right, 
superimposing a spider-web pattern on the 
buildings. And over on Cross Campus, the 
vase-shaped silhouettes are just beginning 
to touch. Old Yale photographs promise to 
be even more familiar in the future. 
-Hamsa Murthy



**Title: Prize Flies**
**Author: Karen Jacobson**
**Page number(s): 7-9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
One of this year's Nobel Prize winners 
in medicine relates stories of his Yale 
grad-school days studying 

I
n the spring of 1969, Eric Wieschaus (GRD '74) boarded a 
bus in his hometown of Birmingham, Alabama to visit the 
East Coast for the first time. He had attended the University 
of Notre Dame in South Bend, Indiana as an undergraduate, 
and he was now heading to Harvard and Yale to look at their 
graduate programs in biology. Wieschaus arrived in New Haven 
and spent the day talking to professors in Kline Biology Tower on 
Science Hill. 

He boarded the bus again to travel to Cambridge, eager to see 
how Harvard would measure up. But when he arrived, there was 
no one with whom he could speak. Students protesting the 
Vietnam War had taken over the administrative building, 
University Hall. "'The campus was a total mess," remembers 
Wieschaus. "The biology building was closed down. There was no 
faculty there. Some of the faculty's children had been arrested in 
the demonstration." Instead of learning about the possible 
projects with which he could become involved, Wieschaus spent 
the day wandering around, watching the protests, and learning 
about tile politics that shut down many universities, as students 
struggled with the possibilities of the draft. There were teach-ins 
that spring, finals were canceled, students went on strike. "'It was 
great, it was wonderful, it was a really exciting place to be," says 
Wieschaus. "I had this disciplinary thing, though. I said, 'Harvard 
would be a great place to be with all of these politics, but if I 
want to do biology, I should go to New Haven.'" Wieschaus chose 
to attend Yale, where he began his studies of fruit fly embryos 
which recently him won the Nobel Prize in Medicine. 

Weischaus' attempt to avoid political activity proved quite 
futile. While Harvard was returning to relative quiet, the Yale 
campus burst into unprecedented political activity during the 
1969-70 school year. That year the U.S.'s bombing of Cambodia 
and New Haven's Black Panther Trial fueled the fire of campus 
politics. Many students felt it was hard to remain concentrated 
within the ivory towers of the university when the country was 
fighting a war they so vehemently opposed. 

DECEMBER I, 1995 
Kline Biology Tower, where Nobel Prize winner Eric Wieschaus 
spmt many of his Yale days. 

Wieschaus himself feared being called to duty at any point. 
"'By the end of my first year, I wrote to all my professors in the 
graduate school saying I wanted to be more involved in politics, 
and that they would not be seeing me around for a while because 
I was going to go out and work and organize," says Wieschaus. "'I 
got a letter from one of my professors, Frank Ruddle (Hon. MA 
'72). He wrote that he understood how I have these feelings about 
these issues, how this was an important time in my life. He 
believed that you should always work through the system, though. 
That-there is greater good in that work." Many, including 
Wieschaus, found the greater good outside the laboratory, where 
individuals were fighting against an unjust government and war. 
He trained to be a medic. Then Nixon introduced the 
birthday lottery, a political maneuver designed to cut the number 
of people personally affected by, and therefore actively working ' 
against, the draft. Whereas before, anyone could be suddenly 
drafted, now, each birthday was given a number from 1 to 366; 
those with lower numbers would be drafted first. "My number 
was 366," says Wieschaus. "It was the last one to be pulled out of 


--- Page 8 ---

the fishbowl, so everyone else would have 
had to have been drafted before me. So 
the draft board in Alabama said that it 
wouldn't do anything else about my 
application until they got into higher 
numbers." 

By this point, Wieschaus was 
beginning to find it harder to find 
political activities in which to be involved. 
The political atmosphere began to cool, 
and Wieschaus found himself missing 
biology. He started sneaking back into the 
lab in the evenings to work on a set of 
experiments and gradually, over the course 
of three months, he was back in the lab 
full time. 

Finally, his first significant results 
emerged. Filled with enthusiasm, 
Wieschaus ran out to relate his good news. 
"I saw Frank Ruddle in the hall and I was 
so excited I ran up to him and I said, 'I'm 
going to tell you about, guess what, I got 
this great result, oh my .. .' and he said, 

Eric Wi~schaus in his Princ~ton laboratory. 

'You're still here? I thought you were going 
to be out organizing the anti-draft 
movement.' I think he was a little 
disappointed." 

S 
itting in his office at the peaceful 
Princeton campus, Wieschaus 
reminisces about his grad school 
days. "That was an awesome opening-up 
time in my life," says Wieschaus. His gray 
shaggy hair falls into his eyes, as he speaks 
with animation. His casual blue cotton 
shirt and jeans reflect the laid-hack 
atmosphere of his lab, which is filled with 
drawings of fly embryos, bottles of flies in 
various stages of development, and light 
microscopes. 

On October 9, 1995, Wieschaus was 
told by the Nobel Foundation that he, 
along with Edward B. Lewis of the 
California Institute of Technology and 
Christiane N iisslein-Volhard, director of 
developmental biology at the Max Planck 
Institute in Tubingen, Germany, would be 
awarded. the Nobel Prize in Physiology or 
Medicine. All decisions for the award are 
made in complete secrecy. Those who are 
merely nominated are never notified in 
advance. So when Wieschaus received the 
phone call, he was completely surprised. 
"Of course, it didn't come as a shock to 
me that the other two people got it," he 
says smiling. 

His daughter, Ingrid Schupback (BR 
'97), felt the same shock when she heard 
the news. "I was just waking up when I 
heard my dad's voice on the answering 
machine," she remembers. "He said, 'Tell 
Ingrid she should call home because we 
have something that she would probably 
want to hear about. It isn't any bad news, 
but she should definitely call.' It took a 
long time because all the newspapers were 
calling, and we don't have call waiting." 

Ingrid has been surrounded by fruit 
flies her whole life. Both of her parents are 
biologists who work with flies-their labs 
recently moved to the same floor at 
Princeton. The coffee table in their home 
has a wooden inlay of big fruit flies in the 
middle. Growing up, her parents often 
had to run to the lab at all times of the 
day and night. A common expression in 
the house is "Mom/Dad is going off to 
collect the virgins," because the virgin 
female flies must be removed from contact 
with males so that their offspring's 
heredity can be controlled. Ingrid says, "I 
don't believe my parents could be married 
to anyone else. They need to be able to 
talk to each other about their work. They 
are always discussing biology." 

There is no bitterness in her voice as 
she describes them, though. None of their 
fascination with biology has been forced 
onto her. Ingrid, a comparative literature 


--- Page 9 ---

major in French and German, wanted to 
find her own niche, away from biology. 
She feels that the ethic her father has 
conveyed to her is to love what she does. 
·He believes that working is a large part of 
what makes you happy. And he is 
genuinely involved in what he does," she 
says. "For him, it is a labor of love." 

J
ust as the political atmosphere of the 
early 1970s was extremely different 
from today's, the world of biology has 
transformed dramatically since Wieschaus 
entered the field. As an undergraduate at 
Notre Dame, Wieschaus had a job in a 
laboratory washing bottles that held flies. 
•1 had already decided that the last thing I 
wanted to do was work on flies," he said. 
Fascinated by developing frog embryos. 
He marveled at the process by which cells 
of different regions of the embryo move to 
become organs with specialized tasks, such 
as muscle or brain. In development, a 
fertilized egg starts as a symmetrical ball of 
equivalent cells dividing rapidly. At the 
16-cell stage, the cells begin to specialize. 
It was understood that by the time the fly 
reaches the larval stage, the cells are fated 
to constitute different parts of the adult 
body. Scientists were able to move these 
preprogrammed regions to make a fly with 
an extra pair of legs or wings. Another fact 
remarkable to scientists was that 
embryonic development is the same in all 
embryos, indicating that there must be 
some overriding set of rules, some 
molecules that must be the same in all 
embryos, regulating that development. 
However, most of these questions had 
been raised in the 1920s, during the 
heyday of the surgical approach to biology 
which lasted until World War II. By the 
1970s, the pervasive feeling was that the 
A common expression in 
the Wieschaus home is 
"Mom/Dad is going off to 
collect the virgins." 
classical period of developmental biology 
had passed. It was unclear how to reach 
new answers. 

When Wieschaus arrived at Yale, he 
was first introduced to fly embryos in Don 
Polson's lab. As developmental biology 
slowed in terms of new approaches, 
genetics was at a critical turning point. 
Both X-rays and chemicals were being 
used to make mutations in the genome, 
but the technique was used to study 
inheritance rather than development. "I 
liked genetics," says Wieschaus. "It's an 
intellectual, very rigorous kind of study 
that has a very attractive abstract 
element." But Wieschaus saw no 
connection between genetics and 
embryology. Wieschaus says, "In my naive 
first-year-grad-student mind, I thought 
two pairs of wings coming off a fly had 
nothing to do with embryos. I didn't even 
know that flies had embryos," he says. 
What flies had to offer this line of research 
was their combination of both a visible 
embryonic stage and access to the animal's 
genetics. 

After two years, Wieschaus switched to 
work with a young assistant professor 
named Walter Garring. Wieschaus left 
New Haven with Garring when the latter 
got a job to organize an institute in Basel, 
Switzerland. He did return to Yale to 
defend his thesis and receive his Ph.D. 
"If you were a young experimenter, 
one of the best things that could happen 
to you was to get a result that no one 
believes," says Wieschaus. "If people care 
enough not to believe it, then it must be 
important." For Wieschaus, this first 
finding was that the embryo is already 
divided into predetermined segments, or 
stripes, of cells. He found that within a 
stripe, cells divide into a leg and a wing, 

**Title: I'll See You in Court**
**Author: Michelle Chihara**
**Page number(s): 12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Schiavone Realty and Development Corporation will use any legal means 
necessary to retain its vision of the Chapel-College business district. 

On the second floor, above the Union League Caf~ on 
Chapel Street, downtown New Haven merchants from 
the College-Chapel area mingle over wine and cheese. 
Behind them hang photogr~phs and paintings of New 
Haven. White Christmas lights, twined into a large wreath· and two 
small Christmas trees, reflect in the floor-to-ceiling windows facing 
onto the street. Kathryn Garre, public relations representative for 
Schiavone Realty and Development Corporation (SRDC), asks 
everyone to be seated. "Okay, you're going to start seeing people 
putting up the decorations soon-we're getting the same crew as 
last year," she says. ~This is the Holiday Calendar, if you're having 
an event that's not on here, please let me know as soon as possible, 
so we can all coordinate." SRDC and its tenants regularly 
coordinate holiday decorations, as well as maintenance, marketing 
strategies, and sidewalk sales. But on any given day, Schiavone is 
just as likely to summon a lawyer regarding a tenant's lease as to 
call a plumber to ftx a tenant's drain.


SRDC manages most of Chapel Street between College Street 
and High Street, where the nineteenth century facades, 
glittering windows, and brick sidewalks create a world all their 
own. That world owes its existence to the vision of one man, its 
former landlord, property manager, and developer, Joel Schiavone. 
An eccentric, impulsive banjo-player, Schiavone (SM '58) 
organized the New Haven jazz festival for a number of years. He 
has appeared on the Green in a tutu. He never wears socks. For a 
while, he owned the New Haven Nighthawks, a hockey team. 
When the Nighthawks threatened to leave the city, Schiavone 
camped out on top of a building and pledged to stay there until the 
team scared up enough support to stay. New Haven lost the team, 
but not Schiavone. Since the 1970s, Schiavone persevered in his 
efforts to transform New Haven into an ideal college town, 
complete with boutiques, cafes, and an entertainment complex. 


Joel and his wife Craig Schiavone, the current president of 
SRDC, have decried negative press about the downtown area. 
Tenants also express concern that the general public sees their 
district as crime-ridden and financially unstable. The imminent 
departure of Kinko's does not quell such concerns, though 
Schiavone himself is quick to downplay them. "We have things 
closing and opening and moving out all the time," he says. "Chapel 
Street is prime real estate." 

A month ago, the area lured Martha's Millinery away from . 
Branford. The ·owner, Martha Lear, a Manhattan-trained hat 
designer, says, "I came to New Haven to get· into an urban area 
within Connecticut, in a quiet neighborhood." A year ago, jeweler 
Peter Endorf moved from Chapel and Park to join Schiavone's 
block, bringing with him creative ideas to lure out-of-town 
customers into New Haven. At a neighborhood meeting, he 
introduced a guest, the advertising coordinator of Woman 
magazine. She proposed an ad campaign for the merchants that 
would target "29-to-50-year-old upscale professional, suburban, 
affluent Connecticut women." 

The suburban dollar represents the ever-elusive golden ring for 
Schiavone's neighborhood. At the merchants' meeting, Kathryn 
Garre thrilled over the 26,000 audience members expected to pour 
into New Haven over Christmas for the Shubert's Cats. But despite 
the theaters, despite a $2 million dollar tax exemption on the 
Shubert, and five-year tax delayed phase-in on all renovated 
buildings, suburban dollars have fallen short of SRDC's hopes. The 
Shubert remains dark more often than most had hoped. And in 
1992, First Constitution Bank threw another obstacle in 
Schiavone's path. The bank initiated foredosure procedures on 
virtually all of the College-Chapel area buildings. 


New Haven headlines have been heralding Schiavone's 
"downfalls" and "comebacks" since the 1980s. Meanwhile, 
Joel Schiavone says, "We still own the properties." He 
denies that the foreclosure case has meant anything. "First 
Constitution went bankrupt, so now we're partners with the FDIC. 
It's the bank's f .. ult that we've been having problems." Schiavone 
never really left. He's been here fighting for his vision all along, and 
he's left a trail of court records behind him. 

Tenants, even during the court battles, have continued to pay 
their checks to SRDC-FHC. FHC stands for First Hamden


**Title:  Untitled**
**Author:  Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 10**

If you were a young 
experimenter, one of the 
best things that could 
happen to you was to get 
a result that no one 
believes. 

but no matter where they were moved 
they did not develop into a leg and a leg. 
This challenged the belief that the animal 
is organized in the head to tail direction. 
Wieschaus faced trouble publishing these 
results for a great deal of time because of 
the scientific community's skepticism. 

Wieschaus did the main work for 
which he received the Nobel Prize at the 
European Molecular Biology Laboratory 
in Heidelberg, West Germany in the mid- , 
1970s. He worked there with Nusslein-
Volhard where they fed poisons to flies, set 
up inbred families for an appropriate 
number of generations, and then studied 
the resulting embryos. Their goal was to 
determine which of the fruit fly's 20,000 
genes are necessary for appropriate 
development. 

According to the Nobel Foundation 
wrote in their press release, "[Working on 
this project] was a brave decision by two 
young scientists at the beginning of their 
scientific careers. Nobody before had done 
anything similar, and the chances of 
success were very uncertain. For one, the 
number of genes involved might be very 
great." Wieschaus marvels at the idea that 
the microscope with two sets of eye-pieces 
at which he and Nusslein-Volhard sat 
opposite each other for over a year in 
Heidelberg has recently been removed to 
be preserved for history. 

In Heidelberg, the two identified novel 
characteristics in the flies that had died. 
Different segments of the fly were deleted. 
The two found and localized 139 genes 
essential for development. These mutant 
stocks also became extremely useful for 
the scientific community in general. It was 
found in subsequent years that .the basic 
genes involved in development had 
already been organized before vertebrates 


**Page number(s): 11**

and invertebrates diverged in evolution. 
Therefore, biologists working with frogs, 
mice, and humans could use these gene 
localizations to study development in 
higher organisms. 

Wieschaus and Niisslein-Volhard's 
work is also highly regarded for the novel 
approach it took; they were the first to 
systematically identify developmental 
genes. Since then, the genes have been 
used 
to 
understand 
congenital 
malformations in humans, such as the 
complete loss of the iris in the eye or a 
condition known as Waardenbury 
syndrome, in which an individual is deaf, 
has defects in the facial bones and altered 
pigmentation of the iris. 

Ingrid remembers visiting the lab in 
Heidelberg with her mom when she was a 
little girl. Wieschaus and N iisslein-
Volhard were trying to decide on a name 
for a new mutant. Unlike other animal 
models such as yeast, which are named for 
their lineage or function, biologists 
studying flies sometimes give the mutants 
trivial descriptive names. For instance, one 
mutant was named gooseberry, another 
hedgehog, because that's what they looked 
like to Wieschaus and N iisslein-Vol hard 
under a microscope. Ingrid, tired of 
waiting for the adults to choose a name, 
began to repeat her bedtime story about a 
dwarf. Dwarf in German is kruppel. 
"That's it," said Niisslein-Volhard, and in 
their highly acclaimed paper in the 
scientific journal Nature, the mutant is 
named Kriippel, an embryo that is 
especially small because of the removal of 
a number of segments. 

What is not always recognized by 
those outside of science is that some 
silliness and a lot of creativity is involved 
in the discoveries that explain the 
mechanisms of the universe. Wieschaus 
refutes the idea that science is the opposite 
of the arts, where one creates rather than 
discovers. While growing up, he was good 
at two things: academics, including 
science, and art, His drawings hang 
throughout his house, and on a more 
mundane note, he does all of the cooking 
in his home, usually creating his own 
dishes. Deciphering the different embryos 
involves such creativity. 

CC I had the fortunate experience of 
going through most of my life 
really naive and unsophisticated 
and having things work out," says 
Wieschaus. He wanders over to a light 
microscope and deftly sweeps a few 
embryos into view, to locate an example of 
an interesting mutant. An invitation hangs 
behind him, welcoming members of his 
lab to celebrate the news at his home with 
his wife and family. It does not take much 
to get Wieschaus to explain his work, his 
enthusiasm building, his voice barely able 
to keep up with the speed of his thoughts 
as he progresses to the most recent 
questions his lab is studying. He pauses 
thoughtfully, and then says through his 
sheepish grin, "I liked the experiment I 
did last week as much as the ones I did 20 
years ago." 


**Title: The Schiavone Saga**
**Author: Michael Chihara**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Corporation, a subsidiary of First Constitution Bank. Technically, 
banks are barred from investing their own money with their 
customers'; lenders are prohibited from becoming joint partners in 
ventures with recipients of their loans. In 1981, Schiavone needed 
mortgage money to create his downtown vision. First Constitution 
put up that money and created First Hamden Corporation as a way 
of getting around the no-joint-venture rule. The SRDC-FHC 
pannership transformed the neighborhood. 

Everything was fine until the recession in the early 1990s. First 
Constitution suddenly became more concerned with the money 
that Schiavone owed than with the tnoney that Schiavone was 
helping them make. In 1992, First Constitution demanded, in 
writing, that tenants in Schiavone's block pay their rent directly to 
the bank. Schiavone ordered his tenants to continue paying rent 
exclusively to him. Stuck between squabbling landlords, a number 
of the tenants wanted a third party to decide the matter for them. 
The logical choice was a judge; so all parties went to court. 
Attorney Frank Cochran ftled a suit on behalf of the tenants. 
Meanwhile, Schiavone applied in federal court for an order 
appointing SRDC "rent receiver" for the Chapel area buildings. 
"He tried 'to steal a march on the foreclosure case and on the 
tenants," says Cochran. Since Schiavone was the property manager 
and the developer, the court decided in his favor. As rent receiver, 
Schiavone gets a cut of the rent and continues to manage the 
properties. By the time the tenants managed to get partially 
reimbursed for their legal fees, a separate court had already decided 
where their checks would go. Schiavone retains his receivership as 
long as the foreclosure case remains open, which it technically is. 
When the bank folded, the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Company stepped in to shoulder First Constitution's debts. 
Schiavone effectively became the FDIC's partner. Legally, however, 
the situation isn't that simple. FHC (the subsidiary of First 
Constitution) is still on the books in the tax assessor's office and on 
rent checks, and First Constitution is still in the courts. The re-
opened foreclos~;~re case reads as follows: plain tiff, First 
Constitution; with mover, FDIC vs. defendants, York and Chapel 
Associates, Palace Plaza, RKO Palace, Chapel One Associates, 
DECEMBER. I, 1995 
717-3071 
FHC, SRDC-FHC, Schiavone Realty and Joel Schiavone-
among others. That 14 parties are now involved in the case gives 
the distinct impression that corporate entities have been 
multiplying between legal motions. 

New Haven's courthouses hold endless lists of cases involving 
one or more of Schiavone's corporate incarnations. Even in 
the federal court records in Hartford, at least eight cases 
come up under Schiavone's name. One claimant who has 
consistently won his cases against Schiavone is Bill McNeiece of 
McNeiece Construction-a longtime business partner and formerly 
a high-ranking employee of Schiavone's. McNeiece sued SRDC for 
breach of his contract for work on the Taft, including remodeling 
The Gap. In the settlement McNeiece was awarded $108,890.80. 
Even Schiavone's ex-wife, Allyn Schiavone, has sued Schiavone. She 
foreclosed on property of Schiavone's in the prestigious Thimble 
Islands off the New England coast. She took his East Crib Rock 
Island in 1993 as collateral for some $3 million that he owed her. 
Of course, legal strife doesn't prevent Joel Schiavone from 
maintaining amicable interactions with the parties with whom he is 
sparring' in court. According to the owner of the Anchor Bar and 
Restaurant, Marshall Moore, Schiavone's habit of lunching at his 
establishment has not been broken since the two became involved 
in a legal dispute. 

Moore's Anchor Bar and Restaurant has been a New Haven 
flXture for 40 years. Schiavone is currently suing him for alleged 
overdue property taxes. Before Moore paid, he wanted explanations 
for certain increases in his property tax. Moore's lease includes a 
provision that he pay a certain percentage of the property taxes 
assessed to the building. Schiavone has been unwilling, or unable, 

The mzrner, a popular apartment bui/Jjngfor Yale studmts moving off-campus, is one of 
the properties managed by the Schiavone Realty and Development Corporation. 

to account for the amounts in question. "I 
invited the suit," Moore says. "I'd be 
willing to pay if he'd be willing to show me 
the documents." Schiavone has also served 
eviction notices to Moore, which Moore 
has avoided obeying, legally. "I feel no 
animosity towards any of them," Moore 
says. To date, the tax suit is still pending. 
Moore's lease on the Anchor, though, 
will be up fairly shortly. If Schiavone 
succeeds in his current negotiations to 
repurchase the College-Chapel area 
buildings, he may step back in as Moore's 
landlord. But Moore is not worried that 
Schiavone might evict him. Moore banks 
on his reputation as a New Haven staple. 
He loves reciting Jodie Foster's memories 
about the city where she went to college. "I 
remember New Haven," she said in a 
recent television interview. "I remember 
Yale, and all the people there, and of 
course, I'll never forget the Anchor 
Restaurant.'" 

Vasilios Kalogeridis, owner of the 
Copper Kirchen, has property tax 
complaints similar to Moore's. The 
two men watched the residential 
apartments above their restaurants undergo 
renovation. Years later, they found 
themselves paying a share of the increased 
property taxes, reassessed to account for 
these improvements. Both feel that they 


should riot finance renovations that don't 
benefit their own businesses. While Moore 
paid the first two increased bills, 
Kalogeridis refused to pay from the 
beginning. "It's a matter of pride:," he says. 
Kalogeridis has been in and out of 
court with Schiavone since 1988 when he 
first got the increased property tax bill. 
Eventually, due to the FDIC's involvement, 
he was able to take Schiavone to the federal 
courts. "He would have thrown me out," 
Kalogeridis says. "But I said no. I've been 
here for 30 years." Eventually, a court 
decision granted Schiavone $19,000 of the 
over $40,000 he was demanding in tax 
money. Kalogeridis won a new lease, as 
well, but it took him two and a half years 
in court. 

Kalogeridis estimates that he has spent 
at least $20,000 in lawyers fees over the 
past few years alone. "I'd rather pay for the 
lawyers," the Copper Kitchen owner says. 
"I won't let anybody push me around. I 
work seven days a week. I do it the honest 
way. Ask him if he can say that." 

Other tenants jump to defend 
SRDC. "It's the only clean part of 
town," Phylis Satin, owner of the 
Wave Gallery, says. "They're always fixing, 
cleaning, doing. Joel Schiavone's vision has 
kept up the College-Chapel area." 

Lisa Ferretti, owner of Urban Objects, 
has been in her current location for seven 
years. "They're unbelievable landlords," she 
says of the Schiavones. "Problems are taken 
care of within an hour, or that day at least. 
If the FDIC were to sell these buildings off 
individually, the area wouldn't have the 
consistency of his vision-especially in 
terms of things like the plants and the 
lighting at holidays." Ferretti doesn't feel 
that her rent is too high, but she wouldn't 
disclose what she pays. "I negotiated my 
own terms," she says. "I don't know what 
my neighbors are paying." 

Ferretti's immediate neighbor is Frances 
Baker of Sugar Magnolia, one of several 
tenants who pressed charges of favoritism 
against Schiavone in 1994. In November of 
that year, several commercial and 
residential tenants subject to SRDC's 
receivership came forward to complain 
about SRDC's conduct. Charges included 
favoritism, bad-faith lease negotiations, and 
racial discrimination. The plaintiffs 
included Baker, Moore, Kalogeridis, and 
Gene and Jill Cam, owners of Sakia, the 
Native American crafts boutique. The 
court ruled that the claims were worrisome 
but unsubstantiated. It added that SRDC's 
actions were justified as part of its duty as 
rent receiver to "maximize rental income." 

However much these landlord-
tenant 
disputes 
preoccupy 
individual 
merchants, 
for 
Schiavone they pale in comparison to the 
drawn-out foreclosure case. "The 
foreclosures are a double-edged sword," 
says Matthew Nemerson, president of the 
Greater New Haven Chamber of 
Commerce. "By lowering the basis of the 
investment values, you can lower rents and 
make downtown more economically viable. 
But it's cruel and unjust punishment for 
those who tried to create their vision." 
Viability, though, necessitates that the 
corridor continues to be treated as an 
integrated whole--what one tenant sees as 
a little monopoly and what Nemerson calls 
•central planning." As long as the district 
stays intact, Nemerson says the foreclosures 
need have no effect on New Haven. "It's 
simply an unfortunate situation for Joel, or 
for the taxpayer, depending on what 
happens," he says. 

The heart of the complications lies in 
First Constitution's position as both 
entrepreneur and creditor. The bank 
started out by acting like a partner, but it 
cracked down as a creditor when it started 
having trouble. The first sign of light at the 
end of the legal tunnel came in August of 
1994 when all parties signed a binding 
mediation agreement. 

For all its legal jargon, it essentially 
represents an agreement not to have a 
winner. A judge-appointed third party will 
mediate a decision that seems fair to 
everyone involved. After the final hearing, 
Schiavone will have the first option to buy 
the buildings, but he will be able to do so 
only at the mediator's assessment of a fair 
price. Even if this case manages to reach its 
conclusion in the next six months, it will 
still have been in the courts for three years. 
And given the system, this case is sure 
not to be SRDC's last suit. The sheer 
volume of litigation surrounding the 
Chapel Street corridor seems to be the 
price of maintaining the grand vision that 
launched the project. 
1811 
Michdl~ Chihara is a unior in B~rlul~y 
Co/kg~. 


**Title: One student's death raises disturbing questions about the myths and realities of heroin use at Yale.**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
During the summer Yale is almost unrecognizable to those who only frequent it from August to May. The pace is a little slower, and the weather is a lot nicer. The campus almost attains a sense of calm. But during the early hours of one morning this past summer, the usual calm was broken by the blare of ambulance sirens. Paramedics wheeled a stretcher from a Yale dorm to the ambulance and then sped to Yale-New Haven Hospital. Shortly after his arrival at the hospital, Matt, a Yale student, was pronounced dead.


Matt had stayed in New Haven over the summer to work for Yale; included in the deal was free on-campus housing. When he died that night in his room, those who knew and worked with him were stunned. David, another Yale student, was working out of the same office. Arriving at work the day after Matt died, he remembers, "We showed up at the office and everything was sort of going at its usual frantic pace, but people were clearly shocked about something. People told me, 'A student died last night in his sleep.' Everybody just asked, 'What the fuck?'" David and the rest of the office staff were told that Matt had died from sleep apnea, a rare condition that arrests breathing during sleep. A few weeks later, David was shocked to hear that heroin was involved.


The official cause of death recorded on Matt's death certificate is morphine intoxication. The medical examiner who conducted the autopsy and signed Matt's death certificate was unavailable for comment, but Dr. Edward McDonough, deputy chief medical examiner, explains that morphine intoxication indicates that enough morphine was present in the body to cause death. McDonough explains that morphine intoxication generally occurs in two instances. In the first case, morphine is injected or taken orally-usually in a hospital setting. In the second scenario, heroin in the body breaks down into morphine. He notes that in performing autopsies, "We don't measure for heroin because it is broken down into morphine so quickly."


Sleep apnea does not appear on Matt's death certificate, but McDonough notes that, in general, sleep apnea is difficult to detect after death. "There is nothing at the autopsy that would diagnose sleep apnea because there is no anatomical abnormality. It is up to the individual physician to judge."


Jeff, a student now trying to kick his heroin addiction, claims he was doing heroin with Matt the day he died. "We were hanging out. We were both high. Five or six people that I know of were doing the same exact heroin that day. He left at four that afternoon and the next morning I was woken up by a call from his girlfriend. 'Matt's dead.'" For Jeff, the death was especially frightening. "It really struck me in a bad way, the fact that I had hung out with him the day before. This is the same exact stuff that I was shooting and everybody else was shooting. Same brand."


Even months after he died, the circumstances of Matt's death are by no means clear. Those who used heroin with Matt believe that he did not die of an overdose. They think that the heroin complicated his sleep apnea. In the end, these distinctions are quibbles. Matt's death will remain a nightmare for students at Yale who are still using heroin.


David, a friend of both Matt and Jeff, does not use heroin; he was upset and angry when he learned the cause of death. "When I heard that he had been shooting heroin, I was really pissed because, to me, it was such the logical conclusion to this whole series of things that had been going on."


David has witnessed a loose-knit scene growing among undergraduates. "It started to be this whole, not clique of people, but these sort of multiple cliques. In all my life up until last year, I was offered heroin once. Since last fall, I've been offered heroin two dozen times. It's ridiculous."


Last fall, Jeff and his friends began making regular trips to New York City. "I used to go to the city once every two weeks. We had it down pat, the perfect little plan," Jeff says. "We would leave at a certain time. Get to New York. Park at a specific parking lot that was close to the spot. Hop out of the car. Go to the spot. Buy the drugs. Then, walk around the city for a little bit. Go to a cafe or something. Go do it in the bathroom with straws. Sit down, have some tea, chat, feel fabulous. Walk around a little more, maybe go shopping."


Almost immediately, David began to notice addictive behavior among his friends. "The negative effects of it really became very apparent, very quickly," David says. "Right away, people started talking in addictive ways, saying classic addictive things like, 'Oh, you know, I'm not really doing it that much, but, you know, let's get some,' or 'Oh, I did it three times this week, and I don't want to do it anymore, so I don't think I will.' Then you find out a couple of days later, they've done it again. Totally ridiculous shit. Totally ridiculous."


The summer before Jeff began using heroin, he had been warned by a friend never to try it. Jeff was riding in a car with two friends who were snorting cocaine. One of his friends was high on heroin and nearly passed out. Jeff asked him what heroin was like, and he answered, "I don't want to talk about it; I'm trying to quit." Jeff then mentioned that he wanted to try it sometime. His friend sharply warned him, "Don't ever try it. It's just not worth it. It's like there's this little devil perched in the back of your head, and he will not go away, not for the rest of your life. Once you do it, once you become addicted to it, for the rest of your life, he will be there with you. No other drug is like that." Now that Jeff is trying to quit heroin himself, he echoes the warning his friend gave him. "It makes me nervous how many people are trying it here."


In the midst of the rise in heroin use last spring, David Lipsky, a writer for Rolling Stone, visited Yale, one of the last schools at which he stopped while researching his article, "The Hard Core Curriculum." The feature addressed rising drug use in colleges across the country, and one of the main schools featured in the article was Yale. "I spent five months going to different schools," Lipsky explains in an interview with The New Journal. "I didn't find students at Yale out of key. The same stuff kept coming up," he notes. According to Lipsky, Yale stood out from other schools in that the center of the Yale heroin subculture was said to be D Parry, a group that supposedly throws regular heroin parties that attract 40 to 60 users each time. Many doubt that this group exists. David explains that, though there is substantial heroin use at Yale, "It was certainly never as many as was stated in the Rolling Stone article, and there were certainly never parties organized around doing it."


One of the students interviewed for the article remembers that several of those contacted by Rolling Stone had personal problems with Lipsky. "My friend basically decided-and he said this before the interview-that he was going to fuck with this guy, simply because he didn't like the way that the guy had gotten in touch with him. He thought it was sleazy how he had been contacted. He wanted to see if the guy was willing to bite the bait and suck up this propaganda."


During the interview, the friend casually mentioned D Party, and no one else interviewed contradicted him. When the article was published, this student's account of D Party served as the article's introduction. Despite the personal problems that some students had with Lipsky, almost everyone interviewed was excited to be in the article in Rolling Stone. "Hell, it was fun to be in the Rolling Stone thing, and part of the reason it was fun was because it was part of living out this hip role, whatever that is," said the student who was interviewed.


After Rolling Stone published the article in October, it was quickly dismissed in a front page Yale Daily News piece entitled, "Students Dupe Rolling Stone Reporter." The Daily News reported, "Undergraduates fabricated the stories behind [the] Rolling Stone magazine expose depicting an active heroin subculture at Yale." D Party was a hoax.


While a heroin subculture at Yale may not revolve around large parties, it is active inasmuch as small groups of people get together to use heroin. David estimates that the total number of heroin users at Yale could be as many as 30 or 40, but he adds that they never get together in large groups. Commenting on the increased use last fall, David says, "It was a very secretive thing. It was done in small, small groups." Currently, David still knows of a number of users. "I could easily think right off the top of my head of 15 or 20 people."


Zoey, a Yale student recovering from her addiction, explains, "Heroin users at Yale tend to be very isolated and just experiment or dabble. There isn't a network." While Yale is far from a campus of dope fiends, heroin has found a place in some social circles.


**Heroin at Yale**
**Author: Gabriel Snyder**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
of bullcrap." 
David imagines the line that most 
students at Yale draw falls just short of 
heroin. "If there's a line anywhere in people's 
minds at Yale when they're drug using, it's 
with heroin," David says. "Heroin is the bad 
boy." 

But as Jeff explains, the people who 
cease to believe the warnings they heard in 
grade school move on to other drugs 
thinking they will be the same. "If you 
finally do end up trying something like 
heroin with that same mindset, you're in for 
a big surprise because heroin is the one that 
will get you in the end because it's highly, 
highly addictive. You know, if you do it 
three days in a row, you're going· to be 
addicted to it because you're going to get 
sick when you stop. That base level of pain-
free existence is taken away and replaced by 
something unnatural you have to purchase 
and give yourself every day. You get literally 
ill, and it's very painful." 

While the image associated with heroin 
might initially draw new users, the intense 
physical sensation sustains them. Zoey 
explains," "How it feels is the key thing to 
the user. Heroin is like the world's electric 
blanket being turned on in your stomach. It 
gives you this curious, queasy, tender 
feeling." Jeff describes the feeling as "when 
you ride down the first hill on a roller 
coaster, that feeling in your stomach. It's like 
that sustained for hours. It's so much, it's 
incredible. It's too much. You know that 
when you feel that fucking good, there's 
something wrong." 

Jeff recalls some people who did not like 
the experience: "I know a couple of people 
who've tried it and didn't like it because it 
does make you vomit." David explains that 
he never took up any of his friend's offers: 
"It seems to me to be disgusting-puking 
and not eating. The whole concept seems to 
me to not be very fun at all." 

After a user is addicted, the extended 
effects disappear, leaving only the initial 
rush. Jeff explains, "When you're addicted to 
it, you're just normal. There is nothing 
different about you and anybody else, except 
that I knew that twice a day I felt really 
good, and the rest of the day I felt normal." 

A large reason an addict continues using is 
to avoid the sickness of withdrawal. "When 
you quit, you get depressed. It feels like a 
bad case of the flu, and you can't sleep well," 
says Zoey. When she first used heroin, Zoey 
loved the experience of it. Now, for her, it 
has become more routine. "What is sad is 
that after a while it turns into daily 
maintenance, and it loses its wonder. I miss 
the innocence of how I entered into it," she 
says. "Heroin becomes routine and it 
becomes ugly." 

For Zoey and Jeff, the drug serves more 
to create motivation than to provide a good 
time. Zoey stresses the little ways the drug 
helps her. "In many ways I am not a 
confident person. Heroin helps me in 
everyday ways like helping me to remember 
to say 'thanks' to the clerk when he gives me 
my change back." Jeff misses that extra help 
in his life. "Now that I'm not doing heroin, 
irs a nightmare. My grades are not as good 
as they were; they're going down. I really try, 
but I just don't have the motivation right 
now. Not that I want to start doing it again, 
but I'm assuming that eventually I'll get over 
this. But, I don't know." 

T
he desire to defy Yale norms serves as 
another source of attraction to 
heroin. Jeff explains, "The thing 
about heroin that attracted me to it so much 
was the whole idea of contradiction. I always 
loved to do the opposite of what people 
would think I would do. The Yalie who's a 
junkie at the same time. Can I do both 
well?" For a while, Jeff tried. "I feel like I've 
experienced Yale in a parallel universe. It is 
so bizarre keeping these weird secrets &om 
everybody at Yale because you feel weird 
having to run home right after a class so that 
you can shoot up and make it through the 
rest of your day. You run back to your room. 
You pull out your spoon, your needle, your 
cotton, and lighter and shoot up and then 
run back out the door. It becomes part of 
your daily routine, and you're a Yale 
student." 

Jeff found his Yale identity useful in 
keeping him out of legal trouble. He tells of 
a time when he and some friends were 
speeding back from New York. "We had just 
finished smoking a blum. We had about ' 
$200 worth of cocaine and heroin in the 
glove compartment, and this cop pulls us 
over." The cop announced that she was 
going to search the car for drugs. Jeff asked 


her, "Why? That's fine by me, but it just 
makes me curious why you would want to 
search us for drugs. We were just visiting 
some friends at Columbia University and 
we're on our way back to Yale." The cop 
then asked them for their licenses, and Jeff 
responded, "I don't have mine, but I have 
my Yale ID, see?" She gave them no more 
than a speeding ticket. 

Though a large part of heroin users at 
Yale buy their heroin in New York, heroin is 
readily available in New Haven. Jeff had 
heard that some dealers marked their spots 
by hanging tennis shoes. When he couldn't 
go to New York, he began exploring New 
Haven. "I started walking around the 
neighborhood by the Med School and then, 
all of a sudden, I looked up and there's 
tennis shoes hanging down from the wires. 
It's really right there." Zoey notes that the 
quality of heroin in New Haven is lower and 
the price is higher, "but it's more convenient 
than going co New York." 

E
ven though it makes che task of 
admissions office recruiters more 
difficult, Yale acknowledges the urban 
crimes to which Yale students fall prey. But, 
the university is less likely co admit that Yale 
students are sometimes guilty of such crimes 
as buying and possessing drugs. To a certain 
extent, the federal government has given 
Yale an incentive to play down drug-related 
activitie~ on-campus. When Congress 
ammended the Drug-Free Schools and · 
Communities Act in 1989, it mandated that 
all schools who receive federal money, 
including Yale, would be held financially 
responsible for enforcing drug laws. Schools 
found co tolerate drug use on-campus would 
face losing their federal funding. So, a 
school has an incentive to downplay the 
amount of drug use on its campus. Critics, 
including Lipsky, argue that the federal 
regulations hamper efforts by schools to 
enact policies that focus on educating 
students who choose to use drugs to use 
them safely. Proponents of these harm 
reduction strategies point to successful "safer 
sex" programs as models. 

Lipsky points out, "The government 
hasn't withheld any funds yet, but colleges 
are waiting for a test case. The common line 
is that the problem here is no worse than at 
any other school." Dean of Student AfFairs 
Betty Trachtenberg disagrees, "The Drug-
Free Schools Ace talks quite a lot about 
education. I don't read it as absolutist. We 
have broadened our education programs co 
include all 
substances." 

However, 
Trachtenberg is also quick to point out that 
drugs do not constitute a major problem at 
Yale. "I'm not going to say there's no use of 
drugs among Yale students, but certainly no 
more than at other schools. I hear the 
rumors that you hear, and I hear rumors 
that heroin use isn't terribly prevalent." 

In a ~ 
of drug use or possession, the 
Executive 
Committee would 
take 
disciplinary action. In the meantime, 
Trachtenberg says that Yale already addresses 
drugs in its educational programs. "Our 
substance abuse counselors at Health 
Services deal with both legal and illegal 
substances," but she adds, "We deal more 
with alcohol because it is much more 
prevalent and much more acceptable." 

David agrees that alcohol is the larger 
problem and characterizes heroin and other 
drugs as "a drop in the bucket compared to 
the number of problems related to alcohol 
on this campus." 

Even though David criticizes Yale for 
not dealing with heroin constructively, he 
emphasizes that the school should not 
conduct a witch hunt for heroin. "I certainly 
don't want to see Yale admit that there's a 
tremendous amount of drug use and then 
crack down on all the drug use," David says. 
"People that have heroin problems should, 
first of all, not be vilified by their friends 
and deans." 

Trachtenberg agrees that disciplinary 
action would not be the most effective route 
to helping people and instead favors 
preventive action. "If we approach this 
through the educational approach, we 
would be much more successful because 
otherwise people will just hide," she says. 

Jeff and Zoey are already hiding. Both 
were concerned with protecting their 
identities and feared reprisals from their 
deans and masters. Jeff and Zoey refer co a 
story of a woman who was confronted by 
her dean last year after the woman's friends 
had told the dean that she had a problem 
with drugs and had been dealing heroin. As 
Jeff and Zoey understand it, the woman was 
threatened with criminal charges of drug 
dealing if she did not enter a rehab program. 
She did not go to rehab, and eventually she 
left Yale. While one may contest the 
circumstances of the case, the story has sent 
a chilling message to heroin users at Yale. 

David feels that Yale must do more to 
establish itself as trustworthy to those who 
have substance abuse problems. "I think that 
there are a lot of people at Yale that feel like 
Yale is their enemy, feel like their dean is 
their enemy, and feel like anything 
institutional or administration-related, in 
terms of their drug use, is their enemy. 
That's a shame because, in fact, addiction is 
a medical problem and that's the way it 
should be treated. There are times when 
somebody is in trouble and the way that you 
deal with it is not by continuing to cover up, 
it's by providing the help and the support 
and the friendship that somebody needs 
when they're in trouble." 

When Rolling Stone published its 
account of heroin use at Yale, the Yale 
community focused on the inaccuracies of 
the report. In her reaction to the article, 
University Secretary Linda Lorimer (LAW 
'77) told' the Daily News, "I would find any 
truth in it to be very alarming." 

The truth is that one Yale srudent has 
died, and on his death certificate the cause 
of death is morphine intoxication. Heroin 
abuse may not be worse at Yale than it is at 
other schools, and heroin may not be that 
widespread on campus. However, the 
number ofYalies who are trying it is at least 
serious, if not frightening. 
1111 
Matt, David, ]4[, and Zoey art pmldonyms. 
Gabriel Snyder, a sophomore in Berkeley 
Colkge, is production manager o[fNJ. 


**Title: New Haven's Family Campus Initiative**
**Author: Caroline Adams**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
New Hoven's effort to make its neighborhoods self-sufficient and efficient rests 
on the foundation of its elementary schools. 
The Family Cam~as 
'' W:exler is a COZI School. Kids & Parents 
Together" boasts a colorful patchwork sign in 
front of the Wexler Elementary School in New 
Haven's Dixwell neighborhood. A bear caJls 
out "Wexler Bear Says Kids First" in equally eye-catching colors on 
another poster. Focusing attention on young children and 
incorporating parents into a school's daily routines are concepts 
which form the cornerstone of a new program known as the Family 
Campus Initiative. 

New Haven Mayor John DeStefano, Superintendent Reginald 
Mayo, and Yale President Richard Levin announced, in July 1994, 
the initiative to convert New Haven's neighborhoods into networks 
of safety and support centered on public elementary schools. They 
intend each school to work together with other service 
organizations as a campus to offer educational opportunities and 
support for the entire community. The program currendy exists in 
two of New Haven's neighborhoods and will eventually extend 
throughout the whole city. The Family Campus requires a 
collaborative effort, consisting of a coalition of local foundations, 
Southern Connecticut State University, Yale University, various 
state agencies, neighborhood organizations, and parents. 

The acronym for the basis of the Family Campus Initiative, 
COZI, is constructed from the first syllables of the names of its 
creators, Dr. James Comer (Hon. MA '75), a Morey professor of 
psychology and director of the Child Study Center at Yale, and Dr. 
Edward Zigler (Hon. MA '67), a Sterling professor of psychology 
and director of the Bush Center for Child Development and Social 
Policy at Yale. In a concept that he introduced in 1968, Comer 
advocates the consolidation of resources in the school as well as 
parent involvement in order to improve schools and the quality of 
education. Zigler's "School of the 21st Century" idea argues that 
the more children are supported in schools, the better they will 
perform. 

The COZI concept, already functioning in schools nationwide, 
provides the foundation for the Family Campus Initiative. Whereas 
COZI aims to improve schools specifically, the Family Campus 
Initiative extends to all parts of the community, uniting parents and 
resource providers in its effort to improve the entire community 
through the schools. 

Lynn Conte, who was hired in July as the project's director, is 
rarely in her office. Instead she spends most of her time in the 
community, meeting with parents and residents, keeping them 
involved and informed. "It sounds great on paper, but that's not 
everything," she admits. Katherine Brennan in the West Rock 
neighborhood and Isadore Wexler in Dixwell are the two schools 
where this pilot program is taking place. A steering committee as 
well as advisory groups in the two neighborhoods have been 
formed. Representatives from each neighborhood meet monthly 
with Conte in order to discuss the individual needs of each 
community. Although meetings rarely produce tangible signs of 
progress, Conte, as well as the principals of both schools, seem 
positive and enthusiastic about their effect. 

Belinda Carberry, the principal of the Isadore Wexler school, 
reports that, as a result of discussions held at a retreat in June for , 
teachers and administrators, teachers decided to telephone the 
parents of their students before the school year began. To encourage 
further involvement, they also held a "Back-to-School" picnic for 
faculty, students, and their parents on August 31. 

Fortunately, Dixwell already possesses many funds from a grant 
of $4.5 million earmarked for the renovation of Elm Haven, a 
nearby housing project. In addition to these financial resources, 
Wexler School's location on Dixwell Avenue puts it in a prime spot 
near a church, the Dixwell Q House community center, a small 
supermarket, and a branch of the New Haven Public Library. 
However, Dixwell needs the Family Campus Initiative to organize 
and to direct its funds and resources efficiendy. 

T
he Family Resource Center, a product of Zigler's "School of 
the 21st Century" concept, opened in Wexler School in July 
1994. In addition to providing services for parents, the 
center runs its own programs. In one of these, the "Buddy 
Program," fifth graders chosen for good behavior read stories and 
solve puzzles with preschoolers. The program is intended to give the 
fifth graders a sense of responsibility while providing preschoolers 
with good role models. 

In adult education services, many parents recendy completed a 
series of nutrition classes in collaboration with University of 
Connecticut Extension Services. During the summer, the Center 
hosted Certified Nurse's Aide training; out of the 21 who 
completed the six-week course, ten are now employed in that field. 
GED classes are important for many parents, too, offering the 
chance to earn a high school equivalency diploma and to secure 
bener jobs. 

The resource center's current project focuses on establishing a 
day care center in Wexler for children from birth to age four. Such 
an institution would give parents more free time to further their


--- Page 23 ---

The Family Campus Initiative plans to turn the currently vacant Clarence Rogers building into a resource center. 
education, to pursue careers, or to involve themselves in the school. 
The goal is also to create a healthy, stimulating atmosphere of 
education for children as early as possible, in accordance with 
Zigler's vision. 

Wexler has also adopted Comer's idea of involving parents in 
the school's daily operations. Several Wexler parents, for example, 
have been trained to teach conflict resolution at their "Pride 
Center" for children who have been suspended from school. In this 
way, suspension becomes a productive experience instead of an 
excuse to miss school. Parent volunteers also patrol the school 
grounds to maintain order and respect, conduct after-school 
dismissal, work in the cafeteria, and act as substitute teachers or 
secretaries when necessary. "There have never been so many parents 
in the school, feeling good about it and their relationship to it," 
Carberry explains. 

An obvious conflict arises here. As parents move on to higher 
education and more demanding jobs, they no longer have time to 
spend in the school. "We are losing families," says Ruby Allison, an 
administrator at the Wexler resource center. For Allison, however, it 
is a worthwhile trade-off. The Family Campus Initiative 
administrators want this to be a bottom-up program, gradually 
turned over into the hands of the communities themselves, making 
them self-sufficient as well as efficient. 

he West Rock community is markedly different from 
Dixwell. While the latter is relatively accessible and has 
abundant resources, West Rock, the city's poorest and most 
isolated neighborhood, consists of six secluded public housing 
complexes. A single road connects the community to the rest of the 
city. Public transpottation is so limited that without a car, which 
few people own, there is no way to get around after dark. West 
Rock also lacks necessities such as a supermarket and a library. 

DECEMBER I , 1995 
The high backyard fences of wealthier Harnden residents create 
a barrier between West Rock and its rich neighbor. Years ago, the 
residents of Hamden wanted to erect a wall between the two 
communities, but the division was deemed illegal. Their solution 
lay in the private backyard fences which produce the same effect. 

West Rock's remoteness and lack of resources prompted its 
inclusion as one of the two pilot communities involved in the 
Family Campus Initiative. 

The Katherine Brennan School is the West Rock elementary 
school targeted as a Family Campus Initiative pilot. During the past 
six months, the Family Campus steering commitee has provided 
funds for physical improvements such as new floors, better lighting, 
new roofing, and carpeting. Dietria Wells, the principal, reports 
that "round tables have replaced the old, long ones; round tables are 
more conducive to social behavior." They have trimmed the bushes 
and have removed the dumpsters in front of the building. Although 
these changes are mostly cosmetic, the committee hopes that 
improved physical conditions will create a more positive 
atmosphere in the school. 

Unlike Wexler, the Katherine Brennan School on Wilmott 
Avenue has no resource center, one of the Initiative's basic units. 
The Clarence Rogers building, which once served as an annex, 
housing kindergarten through second grade, has stood vacant across 
the street from Katherine Brennan for many years. The words 
"Terror Dome" are spray-painted across one side of the building. 
The Family Campus Initiative has already hired an architect to 
transform this building from a terror dome into something 
resembling a resource center. 

The plan also includes getting nearby organizations such as the 
West Rock Neighborhood Corporation, the Head Start Program, 
the Housing Authority, and the community-based police sub-
stations to cooperate with the school. Conte reports that the police 
department, for example, is excited to 
connect the sub-stations with the schools.' 
"The level of committment is higher than 
we could have imagined," she says. 
"Unfortunately the pace can sometimes be 
frustrating." 

Planning is currently underway for 
individual police officers to patrol the 
surrounding area and to become involved 
in after-school activities such as sports and 
tutoring. In this way, they hope to build 
safer campuses and instill respect in the 
children. 

While the goals of the Family Campus 
Initiative sound effective, some people are 
skeptical about its plausibility. Sean Garris, 
the director of the Dixwell Q House, says, 
"Too many terms, social service jargon, are 
floating around; there is no dictionary." He 
does not believe that there is any real desire 
to change. "The population is for the most 
part apathetic," he explains. "They don't see 
any of the money behind the lip service, 
and that's why they don't vote." 

After finding funding, a major problem 
will be mobilizing existing resource 
providers. One of Conte's missions is to 
ensure not only that necessary resources are 
available, but also that they are not 
duplicated. Garris doubts whether this will 
work. "Agencies will feel threatened, 
because it will all boil down to jobs," he 
predicts. "Who will keep them and who 
will lose them?" 


--- Page 24 ---

**Title: The Family Campus Initiative**
**Author: Carolin~ Adams**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
To assuage agencies' fears of being 
forced to cut jobs, Family Campus planners 
emphasize a gradual process of organizing 
and consolidating resources in which there 
are no deadlines and no time limits. Alma 
Ayela, the city's human 
resource 
administrator who represents the city's 
involvement at Family Campus Initiative 
meetings, calls for "the on-going process of 
engaging in conversation with residents and 
social 
service 
providers." 
Ayela 
acknowledges the Initiative's responsibility 
to communicate with the institutions it 
affects. "We must pull the agencies onto 
our side by keeping them informed," she 
says. 

Betsy Jenkins, a social services 
coordinator 
at 
the 
West 
Rock 
Neighborhood Corporation, does not feel 
threatened by the initiative. Family 
Campus strives to ensure greater self-
sufficiency for public housing residents by 
building human capital through education 
and job experience. But Jenkins remains 
confident that the need for her services will 
not disappear. "Whatever happens, people 
will keep coming to us since we represent 
the people in the commmunity and offer 
the counselling, food, and energy programs 
that it needs," she says. 

The initiative sets no rigid parameters 
fo r 
Family 
Campus. 
Each 
neighborhood must formulate a plan to 
allocate resources and funds tailored to the 
particular needs and strengths of their 
community. Funds totaling $150,000 have 
already been committed by local 
foun dations. The steering commit tee 
decided to consult local funders before 
seeking national resources, but according to 
Michael Morand (SY '87, DIY '93) in the 
University's Office of the Secretary, "Yale is 
willing to seek federal money if necessary." 
In fact, the committee has already applied 
for funds from several federal grant sources, 
but a number of them have been rejected. 

Cities 
across 
nation 
are 
experimenting with the idea of the Family 
Campus. In San Diego, for example, a 
similar program called New Beginnings 
tries to use schools as centers of service 
integration. In New Jersey, One Stop 
Shopping Schools, which aim to provide a 
multitude of social services in public 
schools, were introduced. These programs 
all try to reduce stress so that families can 
run more smoothly. As Barbara Stern 
(SOM '87) of the Bush Center says, "How 
convenient would it be if the doctor's office 
was in my kids' school?" 

New Haven and the Family Campus 
Initiative are at the forefront of this 
national movement. Confidence in the 
program remains high because of the novel 
partnership of the city, the 
school board, and Yale. As an institution of knowledge and 
experience, Yale is trying to focus its 
energies where they are most needed, 
Morand explains. He anticipates that Yale 
will be more active in Dixwell, while 
Southern Connecticut State University will 
be involved with West Rock. These 
dynamics make sense because of the 
institutions' respective proximities. 

As Ayela describes, the Family Campus 
Initiative is a "conversation" among all the 
elements of a neighborhood. Although on 
the surface meetings deal with bureaucratic 
details, in the best circumstances, they also 
provide a means of communication. The 
initiative negotiates the boundaries berween 
school and family to address the pressing 
problems of New Haven urban life. 
Carolin~ Adams is a sophomor~ in Pi~rson 
Co/kg~. 


**Title: The Vanguard of the New NAACP**
**Author: Hillary Margolis**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

M
e-recorded voice bounces off the walls in a booth at the 
WELl Radio Towers Park in Hamden, announcing the 
eginning of the Saturday talk show hosted by "New 
aven's own Weekend Warrior," Roger Vann. Dressed in 
a t-shirt celebrating Black History Month, sneakers, and baseball 
cap, Vann looks more like a college student than a warrior. Yet 
when his cue sounds, Vann takes control of the microphone and 
launches into two hours of the kind of heated discussion that has 
given him the reputation of a fighter among radio talk-show hosts. 
Today's topic-parental responsibility-calls for an interview 
with Melinda Toohous, a spokeswoman for an anti-substance abuse 
organization called New Haven Fighting Back. Toohous is fired up 
about beer companies' use of Halloween symbols in their 
advertising, which she says target a child audience rather than an 
adult one. Vann takes on the topic with a casual air, mingling jokes 
with his more serious commentary. Assailed by a short fit of 
coughing during the interview, Vann quips, "I need to take a drink 
here--but not beer, of course." 

For all its informality, Vann's weekly radio show has become an 
important forum for debate in New Haven, particularly within the 
city's minority communities. It involves its listeners in a search for 
answers to the most difficult questions facing urban New Haven. 
After his interview with Toohous, Vann tackles the issues of legal 
penalties for dealing crack cocaine, prejudice, and the need for 
government-funded activities for teenagers. 
"It is always good to spark debate within your own community 
and not just assume that we all have the same views," says Danielle 
Holley (SY '96), a coordinator of the Yale Black Political Forum, 
and an occasional listener of the "Roger Vann Show." Holley 
praises Vann for his unabashed manner, regardless of the 
controversy he may incite. 

Others share her enthusiasm. "WELl has not had a lot of 
programs that dealt with the minority community" before Vann's 
arrival, says Theodore Brooks, Reverend of the Beulah Heights 
First Pentecostal Church. "Vann brought enlightenment to the 
station." 

Of course, there is no shortage of flamboyant radio 
personalities. Proselytizing over the air waves has become a great 
American pastime. Vann, however, is not your typical radio show 
host. The man using Dave Matthews' "Ants Marching" and War's 
"Low Rider" as lead-in music to his on-air segments is also the 
newly elected president of the Greater New Haven branch of the 
National Association for the Advancement of Colored People 
(NAACP). 

I 
n his role as NAACP president, Vann appears in a dress shirt 
and tie. With his stocky build and rounded cheeks, he 
resembles a young man dressed up to impress his father. Gone 
are the baseball cap and tennis shoes, as well as the banter of the 
radio show. His voice drops its playful tone in favor of an attitude 
that is all business. "I envision my mission with the local NAACP 
as a microcosm of what the national organization·. trying to 
accomplish," Vann explains. "I am trying to revitalize the 
organization and attract younger people." 

Vann exudes confidence, but the challenges he will face in this 
endeavor are far &om trifling. The extreme erosion of New Haven's 
job base in the past 20 years has left much of the city's African-
American community in disarray. The NAACP has struggled to 
maintain a strong footing as its shifting leadership tries to meet the 
demands of an increasingly divided community. 

Five years have passed since William Finnegan's widely-
acclaimed N~ Yorktr piece exposed the grim life of an African-
American teenager in New Haven. The wreckage of New Haven's 
working-class communities that has accompanied economic decline 
is common knowledge. There are fewer and fewer residents, in fact, 
who can remember what it was like before. Reverend Brooks, who 
has lived in New Haven for the past 44 years, recalls a time when 
New Haven's African-American community was limited to the 
Dixwell Avenue area, socially as well as residentially. "During the 
fifties and sixties, Dixwell Avenue was the epitome of black 
culture," says Brooks. He speaks of the constant stream of cars on 
Dixwell Avenue every Saturday afternoon, cruising at speeds that 
allowed their passengers to sec and be seen. 

A$ the African-American community's population grew from 
10,000 in 1950 to an estimated 50,000 in 1990, its members 
8ooded over the boundaries of the Oixwell area to which it had 
once been confined. Simultaneously. a gap between socio-economic 
classes .d 
within the community. Often characterized as 
monolithic, New Haven's African-American community today is in 
fact divided between an established middle class and a growing 
lower class. The lack of jobs and other resources prevents a viable 
solution to this problem. 

"Even for those with an education, there are only surface jobs 
available," says Courtland Seymour Wilson, president of the 
Greater New Haven NAACP in the 60s and 70s and current 
executive director of the Hill Development Corporation. Mustafa 
Abdul-Salaam, executive director of the New Haven Family 
Alliance, says "(African-Americans in New Haven] have no access 
to and control of resources, which are the nexus of any 
community." 

Making use of the resources that do exist is also increasingly 
difficult. Organizations like the NAACP, which have traditionally 
provided leadership within the African-American community, are 
finding it difficult to represent the competing interests of the 
middle class versus the lower class, or the new generation versus the 
old. Wilson explains the problem in simple mathematical terms. 
"How can 1,800 people [NAACP membership in New Haven] 
represent a community of 35,000 or 40,000?" he asks, as if insulted



**Title: The New Haven NAACP: A Young Leader's Challenge**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
by the very idea. "No organization can do 
that. [The New Haven NAACP] represents 
those who want to participate." 

In the face of such hardships, New 
Haven's NAACP leadership in the 
community has sometimes faltered. Elnora 
Potter, treasurer of the Greater New Haven 
NAACP, says that for brief periods during 
the 1940s, as well as the 1960s and 1970s, 
the chapter lay dormant, overcome by 
divisiveness. Wilson denies this adamantly, 
but he acknowledges that the problems 
faced by the organization have changed 
during the 78 years he has lived in New 
Haven. Describing the explosion in drug 
use and violence that has taken place 
largely in the last ten years, Wilson says "I 
think the NAACP can help, but not with 
[these kinds of] problems. There are new 
problems in America that I don't think any 
organization can handle." 

The dramatic leadership shake-up that 
occurred with the election of 28-year-old 
Vann last year was part of an effon of the 
New Haven NAACP to revitalize its 
chapter, shed its out-dated dogma, and 
find a voice more relevant to today's 
community. 

"Leadership 
of 
the 
organization had been too stable," says 
Vann. "There were deeply ingrained 
attitudes. There was a need on all levels for 
a turnover in leadership and an infusion of . 
. . , 
a new vtston. 

Chuck Allen, legislative assistant to the 
Mayor and a member of both the current 
and previous executive boards of the New 
Haven NAACP, was instrumental in. 
deciding that the branch needed a turnover 
in leadership. "When you are in an 
organizatio.n for a while, you tend to 
overlook its weaknesses," says Allen, in 
reference to the leadership of five-term 
branch president Hayward Hooks and his 
executive board. "[Vann] was young, 
outside the old regime of the NAACP. He 
could see 
its 
potential and 
shoncomings," Allen says. 

While Vann's youth made him an 
appealing challenger to Hooks, it was 
internal disagreements among chapter 
members that allowed him to win the 
election. Many local NAACP members 
THE Nsw joURNAL 


perceived this most recent regional conflict 
as an indication of the broader struggle 
surrounding the NAACP's role in today's 
Mrican-American communities, a debate 
over whether the NAACP can affect 
problems such as the ones Wilson 
highlights. Vann entered the scene at a 
time when the NAACP was struggling to 
justify its very existence. "There are 
questions of whether the NAACP is still 
relevant for playing a leadership role in the 
African-American community," Abdul-
Salaam says. "Across the board, the nature 
of organizations for communities can no 
longer function from the top down." 

Holley attributes public questioning of 
the NAACP to t he fact that the 
organization now spans several generations. 
"The role of the NAACP anywhere is in 
flux. It is considered outdated for most 
people. It is very sixties, very much a part 
of the civil rights movement. It is not 
associated with progressive thought," says 
Holley. Many students, she says, consider 
the NAACP part of the past and associate 
it with their parents' generation rather than 
their own. 

Vann acknowledges that when he began 
as president of the New Haven NAACP 
branch, some members were clinging to the 
organization's past while others desired an 
agenda suited to the future. He sees the 
generation gap as a temporary problem, 
however, and not one that need seriously 
compromise the effectiveness of the 
organization. "The NAACP can absolutdy 
be effective today," says Vann. "If people 
think [it can't] why is it that when they get 
in trouble they give us a call to be their 
advocate?" The more serious problem for 
Vann is the organization's lack of 
connection with the grass-roots public. The 
NAACP, says the new president, must 
DEcEMBER I, 1995 
reestablish ties with local grass-roots groups 
and let community members believe that 
the organization is in their hands rather 
than under the control of an amorphous 
national bureaucracy. 

Personally, Vann is well on his way to 
establishing such ties. Whether he can pull 
the NAACP along behind him is another 
question. 

I
n Vann's office, littered with scraps of 
paper and lined with recordings of 
radio shows, one realizes why he might 
have been perceived as nothing more than a 
recent college graduate with his head stuck 
in a cloud of idealism, why people would 
doubt his ability to bridge all of the gaps 
New Haven faces. Yet Vann's history reads 
like a resume of attempts at promoting 
community interaction. Since his youth in 
Hamden, Vann has taken only a temporary 
leave of absence from the New Haven area 
to attend Brown University. As president of 
the Brown's Organization of United 
Mrican Peoples and a leader in a 1985 
Third World Student Protest against 
apartheid, Vann was instrumental in 
student activism for civil rights. Reflecting 
on his college crusades, Vann describes 
them as a training ground where he used 
his newfound freedom to find his political 
and social niche. Post-graduation, Vann 
returned to the New Haven area during 
what he calls a period of "re-grouping" 
prior to attending graduate school. 

Vann, 
however, 
soon 
became 
sidetracked by work at the radio station 
and with local organizations. He initiated 
support systems for Mrican-Americans, 
including the Simba program orchestrated 
through the Oixwell Community Q 
H ouse. Sean Garris of the Q House 
describes the program as an aid for African-
Having young Roger Vann 
as president makes New 
Haven an anomaly. The 
NAACP would probably 
be beHer nationally if we 
took on more like him. 
American males experiencing the transition 
from adolescence to adulthood. Vann 
worked to instill a sense of pride in 
Mrican-American youth by incorporating 
his background in African-American 
culture and history into the program's 
activities. "(Vann] gave [the teens] a 
different insight into their responsibilities 
as individuals and .their roles in the future. 
He was even able to get the support of the 
parents of the youth involved," says Garris, 
clearly impressed by Vann's achievement of 
the latter task. 

In a less concrete manner, though 
perhaps a more enduring one, Vann has 
already demonstrated a commitment to 
increasing community involvement 
through his radio show on WELl. "Being 
on air, I have exposure to a more diverse, 
wider audience. The goal is to promote 
productive dialogue among community 
members," says Vann. "We need to figure 
out, why are we so divided on the issues?" 

Mike Morand (SY '87, DN '93), a former 
New Haven alderman who is now assistant 
secretary of Yale University, agrees that 
radio, as one of the most accessible news 
media, provides a crucial link between 
Vann and the public. 

Vann's familiarity with the New Haven 
area allowed him to slide easily from being 
a general member to a position on the 
Greater New Haven NAACP executive 
board. His sense of the city has proven even 
more crucial since his election as president. 
"I don't need to go out and learn an 
entirely new community, and that helps me 
be more effective as a community leader," 
Vann says. Knowledge of his surroundings ' 
was not enough to win an election, 
however. From the beginning, Vann sensed 
he would have to prove that his awareness 
could lead to productive change for the 
29 


This whole thing about 
New Haven being a war 
zone is overblown. It's a 
city, folks. Get over it. 
city. In this vein, Vann based his election 
platform on a set of proposals called 
Agenda 2000, a nine-part plan for 
improvements within the African-American 
community. Central issues addressed by the 
plan included violence in the community, 
revival of youth programs, improved voter 
registration and education, desegregation of 
education, and the creation of a more 
positive representation of the NAACP 
through improved public relations. 

Since his election, Vann has brought 
some of his goals to fruition. Potter says 
Vann has followed up on various programs 
that had fallen by the wayside during the 
past several years. She points to the 
reestablishment of the NAACP Youth 
Council, which each NAACP branch must 
create once its under-20-year-old members 
account for a certain percentage of its total 
membership. Vann says the council 
introduces community youth to civil rights 
and allows them to have a semi-
autonomous organization. New Haven's 
version of the council already displays 
movements towards activis~, with recent 
officer elections and current plans to host 
an NAACP Youth Summit in December. 

The Youth Council demonstrates 
Vann's determination to establish 
connections with the younger segment of 
New Haven's population, as do his efforts 
to create NAACP branches at local 
universities. Holley says Vann's willingness 
to 
participate 
in 
Yale 
students' 
conversations about beginning their own 
chapter provides a strong role model for 
student activism. She believes a Yale branch 
of the NAACP could fill a void in the 
Black Student Alliance at Yale, which 
provides forums for local activism and 
debate of national issues, but lacks 
opportunities for national activism. 

30 
Yale students are not the only people 
inspired by Vann's leadership. The rapid 
rise in membership, particularly younger 
membership, makes a strong case for Vann's 
appeal to the community. In June of 1994, 
the branch's membership numbered 
approximately I ,600, and most meetings 
netted between ten and 15 members. Six 
months after Vann's term began, 
membership 
had 
increased 
by 
approximately 250. At the first meeting led 
by Vann, 60 faces lined the pews of St. 
Luke's Parish Hall on Whalley Avenue. 
"(Vann] has pumped things up again," says 
Morand, praising the youthful president 
for bringing new life to the chapter. 

In addition to taking steps to bridge 
New Haven's generation gap, Vann has 
begun to attack the . more omin,ous 
economic divisions. In the effort to involve 
more lower-class African-Americans, Vann 
used the NAACP as a vehicle for 
encouraging voter education 
and 
registration. Prior to the recent elections, 
the NAACP staged church-based efforts to 
accomplish this task. Vann enlisted several 
local church ministers, who devoted parts 
of their Sunday services to supporting voter 
participation. Church bulletins contained 
voter registration cards, and registered 
congregates were encouraged to bring the 
cards to unregistered friends or family 
members. Though Vann does not know the 
exact percentage of African-American 
voters who participated in November's 
elections, he feels confident that the 
NAACP contributed to the all-time high 
for voter registration in Connecticut. 

Encouraged by this success, Vann plans to 
expand his cause by approaching public 
housing projects and local schools in the 
future, as well as bringing the program to 
more churches. 

Vann claims that the NAACP is a more 
represenccfrive group than many imagine, 
with several white and Hispanic members 
and African-Americans who range from 
those living in multi-million dollar 
suburban homes to those struggling to pay 
the ten-dollar membership fee. Whether or 
not the organization is already as diverse as 
Vann says, under his leadership it has made 
strides to encourage interaction between aU 
segments of New Haven's communities. 

Public speaking engagements by Vann 
himself are the vanguard in this effort. In 
one recent speech, Vann spoke to a group 
of white students at a middle school in 
Milford and tried to educate them about 
the African-American community. "Some 
people would say, speaking at a school, 
'That's not big,' but we have to win people 
over one by one," says Vann. "If we can 
reach out to young people and mold their 
. 
, 
vtews ... 

Certainly, Vann has no lack of vision. 
Bringing the vision to reality, however, is a 
task that is far from complete. Even if 
people do not doubt Vann's abilities, they 
are dubious about the impact a single 
leader can have. Wilson says that the 
NAACP, as an organization, can only be 
effective in a limited segment of public 
affairs and must concentrate on issues 
within its scope to provide proof of its 
accomplishments. 

"If [the NAACP] gets outside issues of 
quality of life, jobs, housing, then I don't 
know if it can survive. If they get into aU 
the social problems of America, they don't 
have the resources," says Wilson. Abdul-
Salaam even goes so far as to describe the 
NAACP itself as an obstacle to the broad 
social change sought by Roger Vann. 

"There is a national agenda that the local 
organizations tend to follow," says Abdul-
THE NEW jOURNAL 



**Title:  Untitled**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Salaam. "It is not enough for an individual 
to want change." 

Undoubtedly, Vann succeeds at 
drawing in a new and younger population 
and re-energizing the long-standing 
members of the organization. "Having 
young Roger Vann as [chapter] president 
makes New Haven an anomaly. The 
NAACP would probably be better 
nationally if we took on more like him," 
says Holley. But even if it manages to get 
its own house in order, New Haven's 
NAACP faces other obstacles to success 
which are much more difficult for it to 
vanquish: the racism and elitism that many 
people see as the roadblocks to true civil 
rights. 


"We are regressing," says Potter of 
American society's efforts to combat such 
issues. "The country has not come to terms 
with the basic problems: racism, 
inadequate housing, lack of jobs, unequal 
education," she says. 

In light of the fact that so little has 
changed, it is difficult to share Vann's 
optimism. He insists that New Haven's 
potential is great, and that the city has not 
sunk as low as some would believe. "This 
whole thing about New Haven being a war 
zone is overblown," Vann responds to a 
jaded caller on his radio show. He 
continues in the jargon that cements his 
appeal to a younger audience. "Having to 
crawl across the street to dodge bullets-
come on, New Haven is a safe place. It's a 
city, folks. Get over it." In a city wrought 
with ambivalence and pessimism, Vann's 
conviction resonates loud and clear 
through the air waves. 



bookhaven 
A General Bookstore 
with an Academic Slant 
Random House, $25.00 
Knopf, $23.00 
290 York Street, New Haven, CT 
(203) 787- 2848 

BAGEL 
CONNNECTION. 
IMMEDIATELY AROUND...
The Bagel Connection 
61 Grove St. 
New Haven 
782-1441 
961 State Street 
New Haven, CT 06511 
(203) 789-8589 
Super Bagel !Travel Mug 
Sandwich 

FREE 
Expi. 1/31/96
$129 
e.cp.... 1/31/96
Gleaming cases of croissants, 
cakes, tarts, cookies 
Lunch served daily Tuesday 
through Friday. 
Light brunch on Sunday. 
hours: Tuesday-Saturday, 
8am-6pm 
Sunday, 8am-3pm 



**Page number(s): 32**

Mon 9pm-2am, 
Tues 9pm-1 am, Wed & 
Thur 9pm-2am 
Sat 6-9am, Sun 
11am-5pm 
Spectrum 
Mon 5-7pm, Tues-Thur 
5-9pm, Fri 5-8pm, 
Sat 7-1pm 
World Roots 
Friday 8pm-2am 
Sports Graveyard 
Tues & Sun 1-2am 
Yale's Radio Station 
