Publication date: September 8, 1995
Volume: 28
Issue number: 1

**MASTHEAD**
- Publisher: Christina Lung
- Editor-in-Chief: Suzanne Kim
- Managing Editor: Kate Schuler
- Business Manager: Audrey Leibovich
- Designer: Horling Wong
- Production Manager: Gabriel Snyder
- Photography Editor: Brendan Koerner
- Contributing Editor: joshua Civin
- Associate Publisher: Min Chet:Z
- Associate Editor: Katherine Bell
- Associate Editor: Benjamin Lumpkin
- Research Directors: Brooke Conti
- Research Directors: Karen jacobson
- Circulation and Subscription Manager: Tina Aspiala
- Kati~ Brandi
- ]o~/ Burg~s
- jay Dixit*
- Rosnnary Hutzkr
- Hiihlry Margolis*
- Dani~/ Murphy
- Ann Skdg~·
- *Selected to staff, September 4, 1995
- Members and Directors: Edward B. Bennett III
- Constance Clement
- Peter B. Cooper
- Andy Court
- Brooks Kelly
- Patricia Pierce
- Jay Porter
- Kathy Reich
- Fred Sttebeigh
- Thomas Strong
- Friends: Anson M. Beard, Jr.
- Edward B. Bennett, Jr.
- Edward B. Bennett III
- Biaire Bennett
- Paul S. Bennett
- Gerald Bruck
- Jonathan M. Clark
- Louise F. Cooper
- Jerry and Rae Court
- David Freeman
- Geoffry Fried
- Sherwin Goldman
- Roger Kirwood
- Andrew J. Kuzneski, Jr.
- Lewis E. Lehrman
- E. Nobles Lowe
- Peter Neill
- Julie Peters
- Fairfax C. Randal
- Nicholas X. Rizopoulos
- Arleen and Arthur Sager
- Dick and Debbie $ears
- Richard Shields
- W. Hampton Sides
- Elizabeth Tate
- Alex and Bersy Torello
- Allen and Sarah Wardell
- Daniel Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**

Keeping Time - Ben Lumpkin
Rolling Through the Special Olympics - Ann Sledge
Bearing Witness - Karen Jacobson
Adding Sex-Ed to Street Smarts - Hillary Margolis
About this Issue
Point of Departure
Between the Vines: Elm Street Fighter - Dan Murphy


**Title: Keeping Time**
**Author: Ben Lumpkin**
**Page number(s): 6**

Weathering changes in tastts and venues, Ntw Havens jazz scene continues to showcase world class musicians.


**Title: Rolling Through the Special Olympics**
**Author: Ann Sledge**
**Page number(s): 12**

While the world watches, one woman manages to keep Ingalls Rink on trac :


**Title: Bearing Witness**
**Author: Karen Jacobson**
**Page number(s): 16**

Rushing against time, Yale's Fortunof!Video Archive and Steven Spielberg's Shoah Foundation attempt to record survivors' accounts of the Holocaust.


**Title: Adding Sex-Ed to Street Smarts**
**Author: Hillary Margolis**
**Page number(s): 24**

Every day, students in Ntw Havens schools hear that their age group has the fastest growing rate of HIV-inftction. But to make a dent in the statistic, health educators must reach drop-outs beyond school walls.


**Title: Between the Vines: Elm Street Fighter**
**Author: Dan Murphy**
**Page number(s): 30**

**Title: New Haven's Jazz Scene**
**Author: Ben Lumpkin**
**Page number(s): 6**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The forecast is for rain. Before I left the house, the 
weatherman loomed over the earth with his pointer, 
radiating that weird weatherman glow that comes from 
standing in front of electronic pictures. "There is a 
chance of a thunderstorm Friday or Saturday," he intoned, "as that 
steam really gets built in." There can be no doubt that the steam is 
really built in, but there's still no rain. I have turned to music for 
release, sitting inside a small brick bar on the corner of State and 
Crown where you can hear live music eight times a week. The bar 
is called Cafe Nine.


On stage, New Haven resident Wayne Johnson (often visible 
playing his flute near the entrance to the British Art Center) 
displays a formidable talent in the Joao Gilberto classic, "Girl 
From Ipanema ... Cafe Nine's weekly Saturday Afternoon Jazz Jam 
is in full swing, with life-time New Haven musician Eddie Buster 
presiding on the keyboard. I am practically the only person under 
30 years of age in the entire bar. Most look to be in the stage of life 
that goes by the vastly unspecific designation "middle aged." The 
crowd is very nearly half black and half white. I try to recall if I 
have ever seen that mix before.


Crimson T-shirts with "cafe nine" written on the front and 
"Ego Free Zone" inscribed across the back are for sale behind the 
bar. At least three people are wearing them. Amateur sax player and 
professional dentist Dr. Tony Dioguardi, a participant in the 
Saturday Jams at Cafe Nine since the bar opened five years ago, has 
learned that I am a reporter. He swings by my table while making 
his rounds about the room, where everyone seems to know 
everyone else. The jazz audience in New Haven is like a microcosm 
of the city, he says, "small but tenaciously viable." Cafe Nine, he 
adds, is one of the few places in New Haven where one is likely to 
find "anyone from State senators to guys with no place to go home 
at night."


Jazz in New Haven has lost some of its former grandeur. New 
Haven residents Sam Cannady and Alfonso Vaughn, sitting on 
high stools close to the stage, squeeze their eyes shut in the effort 
to remember the past. They list the names of the supper clubs and 
live music halls that once flourished in New Haven: Sound Track, 
Democratic Club, Golden Gate, Yellow Lantern, the Zebra Room, 
the Quarter Club, among others. They tell of the renowned 
Foundry Jazz Club, which once occupied the space where the 
Koffee? cafe stands today. They describe the morose beatniks who 
used to frequent McTriff's Jazz Club on Chapel Street, today a 
Vietnamese restaurant known as Saigon City. They recount 
appearances made by such jazz greats as Dizzy Gillespie and 
Connecticut native Horace Silver. Jazz and other live music in New 
Haven reached their height in the fifties and early sixties, before 
the dual pestilence of disco and Dragnet (the TV series) swept the 
city.


In the woeful words of Cafe Nine regular Brian Kolterman, 
"disco happened." In the mid-seventies, bar and club owners across 
the country discovered they could draw larger crowds by hiring 
DJs to spin records, which cost far less than hiring a live band to 
perform several sets in the course of an evening.


The advent of television also contributed to the gradual decline 
of live music in the city, Yale School of Music professor Willie Ruff 
(MUSB '53, MUS '54) told me over the phone from his home in 
Alabama. "All the things that brought TV in took live 
performances out," Ruff lamented. He recalled that during his 
freshman year at Yale, in 1949, "the real activity on campus was 
live jazz." Be-bop-playing Yale students like himself "made more 
money than the Dean." Ruff described private parties where Dizzy 
Gillespie entertained a room full of Yalies and girls bussed in from 
Smith College, wrapping up his tale with the unusual 
admonishment: "Your exceedingly square generation has to have a 
committee to entertain [itself]."


TV, and particularly the hit series Dragnet, said Ruff, kept 
people at home in the evenings, even to the point that one movie 
house remains of the eight that once stood within two blocks of 
campus. In the world of television, rock bands replaced jazz bands. 
Rating-crazed television programmers had no room for jazz in even


**Title: Beinecke's Best Kept Secret**
**Author: Jodi Burges**
**Page number(s): 5**

Beinecke's Best Kept Secret 
If Carl Van Vechten were alive today, he 
would have loved M & M's well-known 
slogan, "Melts in your mouth but not in your 
hand." Coming across the jingle in a 
magazine or on TV, he would have reveled in 
its myriad sexual meanings. He would have 
then cut it out in order to create a new page 
in one of his scrapbooks. After pasting the 
slogan onto a page of one of these albums, he 
would have continued sipping the pages of 
his GQ or Esquire, browsing until he found 
the perfect Versace or Calvin Klein 
advertisement to illustrate the particular 
gayness between the lines of the M & M's 
slogan. On his death bed, he would have 
bequeathed the scrapbook containing this 
home-grown erotica to the rare books division 
of a distinguished, private university's library 
system.


In fact, the real Carl Van Vechten made 
just such a donation when he died in 1964. 
Van Vechten's scrapbooks, pieced together in 
the 1950s, now reside in the Yale Collection 
of American Literature, housed in the 
Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library. 
Famous for his photographic portraits of 
Harlem Renaissance writers, his subjects 
included the likes of Zora Neale Hurston and 
Langston Hughes. But in his scrapbooks he 
abandoned his more formal portraits to create 
collages grounded in his campy sense of 
humor. Van Vechten wanted to reveal 
something gay in popular culture, so he 
uprooted the sexualized imagery found in his 
scrapbooks from an extensive variety of 
sources: his own collection of pornography; 
pictures he took of nude men who modeled 
for him; photos of athletes and soldiers 
clipped from various periodicals; and, finally, 
sexually suggestive headlines like: "Steaks that 
melt in your mouth."


Journalism that focused on gender 
confusion fascinated Van Vechten. He cut out 
one article, for instance, about Christine 
Jorgensen, a man who became a woman. Max 
Lerner, the article's author, suggested that 
Jorgensen "changes his sex-and the planets 
stop whirling in their course to discuss his 
(her) case." He wanted us to see, first, that 
transgressing the sometimes rigid social 
constraints of gender and sexuality was 
possible in spite of what our bodies look like. 
He also revealed how popular and public 
culture contributed to what we are as sexual 
beings in private-and especially what it 
meant to be homosexual.


For example, Van Vechten placed in one 
album a 1955 newspaper story that reported how a 
British panel concluded that the "real 
safeguard against homosexual activity ... is 
public opinion." Van Vechten's inclusion of 
this article in one of his scrapbooks revealed 
an apparent paradox: Public opinion can be 
homophobic and oppressive, but it also helps 
to mark out a gay identity because it 
acknowledges that homosexuals exist. In other 
words, public opinion, while sometimes 
oppressive, may work as a safeguard for, 
rather than against, homosexual activity.


Moreover, for Van Vechten to piece together 
his campy collages from so many different 
and frequently public sources, was to assert 
not only his own identity as a gay man, but to 
suggest that there were others like him--even 
if many of them concealed their fantasies 
about men.


Although today we might consider the 
community he was documenting as almost 
too private, a culture too closeted to enjoy its 
desires, Van Vechten's inclusion of an article 
about military cadets at West Point playing 
the female roles in The Merry Wives of 
Windsor suggests that we might be wrong. 
While it would be extravagant to claim that 
being a gay man in the military has ever been 
easy, the soldiers depicted in the articles 
chosen by Van Vechten didn't seem bothered 
by dressing up as women and parading 
around in skirts and curls. Quite the opposite: 
they appear to be having a gay old time.


Another poignant example of Van 
Vechten's assertion that gay males existed in 
institutions that seemed to be safeguarded 
from homosexual activity was his bequest of 
the scrapbooks to Yale upon his death. 
Strikingly, he even created a collage that 
commented on the university, then a bastion 
of (mostly white, mostly rich) testosterone: 
"Yale May Not Think So, But It'll Be Just 
Jolly." The words were coupled with a picture 
of a nude man whose genitals are covered 
only by a leaf-cut, possibly, from an ivy 
vine. Van Vechten's bequest to Yale was, 
however, not only his way of insinuating that 
there were gay men in the Ivy League, but 
also an occasion for him to make a statement 
about higher education. He provided Yale 
with a provisional map of his own sense of 
what it meant to be a gay man. At the same 
time, he bequeathed a complex atlas of both 
gay culture's and the mainstream public's 
perspective of homosexual activity during the 
first half of the twentieth century.


While the study of these scrapbooks 
engenders some tension because of their 
pornographic edge, the books represent a 
body of work that has the potential to guide 
Yale into the foundation of gay and lesbian 
studies. He gave them to a major research 
institution like this university for a reason, 
implying that knowledge about sexuality 
should emerge not only in the privacy of our 
bedrooms, but also in the public space of our 
classrooms. As Van Vechten might say if he 
were alive today, Yale may not think so, but 
studying gay and lesbian forms of culture will 
be just jolly. 


**Title: Weathering the Storm: New Haven's Jazz Scene**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 7-9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Weathering changes in tastes and 
venues, New Hoven's jazz scene 
continues to showcase world-class 
mus1c1ans. 


the remotest of time slots. In his whole life, Ruff pointed out, 
Duke Ellington only made one television appearance. "The jazz 
audience, as such, no longer exists," he said. 

There is plenty of evidence to back up this view. The New 
Haven Jazz Festival on the Green has been reduced in scale from 
nearly a dozen concerts per summer to three or four. Yale Band 
Director Tom Duffy tells tragic stories of failed University jazz 
concerts. The Annual Yale Jazz Fest, launched in the mid-eighties, 
didn't survive past its second year, when musicians played to those 
few undaunted by snowstorms. A 1985 Miles Davis concert only 
half-filled Woolsey Hall, and members of the audience began 
trickling out by the middle of.the show. "You couldn't give the 
tickets away," Duffy recalled. Branford Marsalis fared no better 
some years later. And even today, Duffy reports, if he dares to play 
anything more progressive than big band jazz (for which there still 
exists a loyal audience among sixty-something suburbanites), he is 
faced with an audience of 50 to 100 people in the 800-seat 
Sprague Hall. On such nights, said Duffy, "you can hear every 
single stroke of the clapping." 

For bar and club proprietors like Cafe Nine owner Mike 
Reichban, the reality is not only that jazz lures smaller crowds, but 
that those who come do not drink and spend as much as the young 
crowds lured with rock bands and DJs. "Uazz fans] are the kind of 
people who like to savor that single malt scotch," Reichbart said. 
"For them, a drink is just a small embellishment to the scene." 

Nevertheless, the fact remains that on any given night in this 
city there is a place where one can hear the soulful wail of 
saxophones, the piercing blasts of a trumpet, the maniac rumbling 
of drums, or the curious twangs and hums of a bass. In the 
summer, when the heat seems to impair bodjly functions in a 
permanent way, when breathing becomes less a mechanism for the 
support of life than a process of sucking heat here and spitting it 
there, when people feel that heat may overwhelm personal 
expression- become the only expression-at those annihilating 
hours, there is jazz to awaken the mind. 
SEPTEMBER 8, 1995 
mtyne Escoffrey jams at Rudy's where New Haven's up and coming 
jazz musicians prepare for b~gger and better gigs. 

C
afe Nine is like nothing so much as a buzzing spirit in the 
midst of a body laid waste by inactivity. You can walk there 
any night of the week, down either Chapel or Crown 
Street, without seeing a soul between the back of the Taft 
Apartments and the crowded stoop of Cafe Nine itself. You'll pass 
the Chapel Square Mall where it sleeps-filled, one supposes, with 
a great swirling vortex of city planning nightmares. From here, on 
the Crown Street side, you'll walk along a row of some of the 
oldest buildings left downtown, every single one of them empty. 
On the Chapel Street side you'll pass the American Discount Store 
with its permanent "Giant Clearance Sale" sign hanging in the 
window. A little further down, beyond Nu Haven Books, the Las 
Vegas Jewelers storefront stands criss-crossed with strings of 
colored Christmas lights, blinking stale holiday cheer into the 
empty lot across the street. Signs in the window invite passersby to 
browse an intoxicating selection of gold teeth, beepers, and silver 
name plates. 

One cannot walk to Cafe Nine repeatedly at night without 
learning one thing: downtown New Haven is not particularly 
dangerous after dark, just deserted and a little bit eerie. But if you 
ask anyone inside Cafe Nine why it is the only bar of its kind they 
will tell you, almost every time: "People in New Haven are afraid 
to come out." No one is particularly interested in the question. ,, 
Conversation on the topic was exhausted long ago. William Sherr, 
the owner of a recording studio rwo doors down from Cafe Nine, 
7 


--- Page 8 ---

Fred 
(left) on saxophone and Laco Deczi 
on trumpet at Cafe Nine. Deczi says 
his band plays all originals. "Why do something that's already been done?" he asks. 
takes the explanation one plodding step 
further for my benefit. "When people leave 
cities," he says, "cities die." 

As chairman of the Ninth Square 
Development Association, Sherr has dealt 
with the frustration of trying to support 
nightlife and othet commercial ventures 
without a flourishing residential area. It's 
tough, he says, to keep a bar filled when 
the nearest vibrant neighborhood is further 
than most people want to walk. (With 
more stringent drinking-and-driving laws, 
driving to bars is increasingly uncommon.) 

The newly refurbished apartments within 
the Ninth Square, roughly the space 
between Cafe Nine and the Chapel Square 
Mall, are still relatively lifeless; the ground 
floor space reserved fOJ< merchants has yet 
to be filled. In large measure, the 
resurrection of downtown New Haven, if it 
is to be, will come about by repopulating 
this area. "The Ninth Square may be one 
of the last legitimate opportunities for 
people to belong to a diverse community," 
says Cafe Nine's Reichbart. 

0 
n a later visit to the bar, Riechbart 
has given me his treasured copy of 
an out-of-print book with the 
tide, The New Haven Sound: 1946-1976 
In the opening pages, author Paul Lepri 
brags that in the 1940s, New Haven 
8 
turned out more big band leaders than any 
other city in the U.S. He names such stars . 
as Artie Shaw, Les Elgart, and· Buddy 
Morrow, who all got their start in Elm 
City. I turn the pages eagerly, but after this 
promising start the book degenerares into a 
dry genealogy of obscure bands, 
cataloguing their formations 
and 
mutations with sentences that tease the 
imagination to distraction, such as the 
cryptic line: "The Corvettes changed their 
name to the Cadavers and added Nick 
Bagwasco on rhythm guitar." 

Reichbart, a small, peripatetic man 
who flutters around his bar like someone 
looking for his car keys, alights on the 
booth opposite me. The building which 
today is Cafe Nine has a long history of 
supporting various bars and taverns, he 
says, his words coming in torrents. 
In the 1870s, patrons of the bar then in 
this building used to get in fights with 
patrons of a temperance bar across the 
street. Reichbart first went into business 
here in the seventies, when he opened a 
"hippie, biker bar" called "Blue Bartz." 
Back then, when Budweiser cost $.50 a 
bottle, Reichbart's clientele generally called 
for an ounce of Schaefer's alongside an 
ounce of bar whiskey. Today, with three or 
four jazz performances a week, Cafe Nine 
is the city's premier jazz venue. 
"Life without music is a mistake," 
Reichbart suddenly blurts out, after a brief 
meditative silence. "Who said that? 
Nietzche? No. Yes." 
"Jazz is a safe music," he continues. 
"[You listen to jazz] if you are someone 
who doesn't think that the next 
neighborhood is some disgusting breed of 
people." 

The truth of this statement can be 
upheld with more powerful evidence than 
simple bar-brawling statistics. At the 
Ebony Lounge, a jazz and disco bar that 
sits on the town line between New Haven 
and Hamden, there is a sign in the window 
forbidding the entrance of people under 
the age of 25. Why? People who patronize 
the bar come mostly from a neighborhood 
in which lies a disproportionate number of 
older African-Americans who have retired 
and settled down to a quiet life. Ray 
Bright, one of the current owners of the 
bar, which has been in business 35 years 
under various managements, said what he 
doesn't need is "any of that hip-hop shit," 
music which draws young men with "their 
pants hanging down over their asses," men 
whom Bright fears may carry weapons. 
"Kids come in here and drive the older 
people away," he said. 

The Saturday afternoon jazz audience 
at the bar is anything but scary. As Martin 
Luther King gazes serenely from a portrait 
behind the stage and a galaxy of Christmas 
lights throws shadows on the old tin 
ceiling, the room fills with what seems to 
be one large family turning out for a 
picnic. Pinstripe oxfords and pressed white 
blouses abound. New Haven legend Wayne 
Boyd leads his jazz trio through a chilling 
rendition of "Round Midnight" at three in 
the afternoon. Boyd formed his first band 
in the city in 1966, at age ·16, and 
THE NEW JouRNAL 


--- Page 9 ---

eventually worked his way up to a position 
in the Jimmy McGriffith Quartet, a band 
that plays gigs throughout the world. At 
the Ebony Lounge, Boyd hefts his wireless 
guitar from one room to the next as he 
plays, greeting old acquaintances between 
riffs. 

I
've come down to Cafe Nine on a 
Monday night to hear Collectively 
Speaking, voted New Haven's favorite 
jazz band in Th~ Advocau's annual readers' 
music poll, but most of its members are on 
vacation. In its place I find an impromptu 
trio made up of New Haven Symphony 
bassist Jim Andrews, Collectively Speaking 
drummer Ken Aldrich, and a guitar player 
who regularly appears at Foxwoods Casino, 
Dave Dana. Dana is very fast. As a player, 
he seems almost obsessed with speed. One 
man at the bar is thrilled. He leans over to 
tell his wife in a voice just a little too loud, 
"that's as fast as they get." Aldrich is a 
drumming phenomenon. To watch him 
pull his wild array of sounds from four 
drums and four symbols is no less · 
bewildering and fantastic than to watch a 
magician pull rabbits from a hat. 

Between sets, Dana finds his way to my 
table. He is wearing a shirt like a Jackson 
Pollack painting (unbuttoned to show an 
abundance of deep black chest hair), a 
strange brand of blue jeans, and white high 
top sneakers with bright red laces. One is 
not surprised to learn his former place of 
residence, before returning to his home-
town New Haven in 1982, was Las Vegas. 
In the seventies, Dana left New Haven 
for Florida with nothing but his suitcase, 
his guitar, and 50 bucks. In Florida he 
lived on the streets for a time before he 
found a regular gig on an island off the 
coast. One thi~g led to another until 
Dana's band landed a gig at the Stardust 
Casino in Las Vegas. Dana drove across the 
country and spent several years in Vegas, 
playing various casinos and ultimately 
landing a job .as the house guitar player at 
the Las Vegas Hilton, where he had the 
opportunity to play with big name 
entertainers such as jazz singer Joe 
Williams, and pop singers Tina Turner, 
Diana Ross, and Stevie Wonder. When 
Dana left Vegas, it was to join Stevie 
Wonder's band. Dana has played under his 
own name for three years. "I've developed 
the ability to hold the stage," he says 
coolly. "I don't have to be behind a skirt 
any more." 

Aldrich squirms like a turtle on its back 
when separated from his drum sticks. He 
sits uncomfortably in the chair opposite 
me as he narrates his rise from a wedding 
gig drummer, who banged away in his 
basement at all hours for practice, to the 
drummer for the Tommy Dorsey Quartet 
as it toured the country. When pressed, 
Aldrich admits that he has been coached 
by drumming legend Louis Bellson, but for 
the most part he seems content to sum 
things up with the observation, ''I'm kind 
of childish, Dave is kind of Las Vegas, but 
oh well." He wants to return to his drums. 

t is difficult to say whether jazz is on 
the rise in New Haven or more or less 
running in place. The ever popular 
Rudy's on Elm Street began staging live 
jazz on Tuesday nights about a year ago 
and has seen that generally slow bar night 
transformed into one almost as busy as any 
other, particularly when Yale is in session. 
Still, saxophone player Wayne Escoffery, 
who runs the jazz sessions with as many of 
his musician friends who show up on a 
given night, isn't sure that people come for 
It is difficult to say 
whether iazz is on the rise 
in New Haven or more or 
less running in place. 
love of the music so much as to drink and 
hang out. A sampling of the crowd backs 
him up, revealing that few either listen to 
jazz at home or go in search of it on their 
nights out. Rudy's proprietor Thomas 
Henniger characterized Tuesday nights as 
"our regular crowd. The only difference is 
the ten guys carrying instruments." 

T
he loyal jazz fans-those who grew 
up with the music-can be found 
at Charlie B's .Steak House, where 
world class bass player Jeff Fuller (ES '67, 
MUS '69) and piano player local Bill 
Brown play on alternate weekends. On one 
Saturday night, Fuller leads his band 
through swing classics, like the song that 
invites you to "Get your kicks on Route 
66." The lights of the big brass chandeliers 
are dimmed way down, leaving the wine 
racks in shadow and rendering barely 
visible a row of pastoral portraits of cows 
Caft Nin~ owner Mike Reichbart chats 
with customeN from behinJ the bar. He 
anJ Bill Sherr at the faclt Straw SounJ 
Recording Snulio are cutting an allnnn of 
live performances at the bar. 



**Jazz in New Haven**
**Author: Ann Sledge**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Jazz is a safe music. You 
listen to iazz if you are 
someone who doesn't think 
that the next neighborhood 
is some disgusting breed of 
people.

in pasture. The singer invites his audience 
to throw back a few quick drinks and sink 
into a dream of the past. But between sets, 
Fuller himself bemoans the fact that he has 
been unable to attract young people to 
hear him play. "Yale students would be my 
ideal audience," he says. "Here are people 
thinking, learning, and exploring. That's 
what jazz is all about." 

Internationally renowned jazz pianist 
Harold Danko is optimistic that jazz can 
thrive in New Haven. Danko, who was 
drawn to New Haven a year and a half ago 
to raise children in "the first city outside of 
New York that has it's own identity," 
delights in the ease with which he has been 
able 
to 
organize 
well 
attended 
neighborhood concerts in New Haven. It is 
a refreshing change for him, after years of 
living in New York City where "there is so 
much heavy artillery you have to use just 
to mount a block event." Danko is 
committed to teaching and performing for 
his students as a way to maintain a core 
audience for jazz. Will Bartlett, who 
teaches jazz with Danko at the 
Neighborhood Music School in New 
Haven's Audobon Court, said that faculty 
jam sessions at the school are one of the 
few opportunities for youths under the age 
of 21 to hear live jazz, and are thus a key 
element in "passing on the tradition." 

"Thank God for Cafe Nine for 
what it is doing for the jazz 
and blues scene," says New 
Haven resident Chris Cass as we sit at the 
bar and watch Czech trumpet legend Laco 
Deczi pace back and forth while his sax 
and organ players tangle up in a fast fusion 
sound. 

It seems 
like 
a 
feeble 
understatement with Deczi on the stage. 
Deczi fled communism in 1984 when his


**Title: Special Olympics at Yale**
**Author: Ann Sledg, a sophomore in Ezra Stiles College is on the staff of TNJ**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
While the world watches, one woma n 
manages to keep Ingalls Rink on track. 
employees answered phones at the volunteer headquarters, hosted 
family members of foreign athletes, and set up the Special 
Olympics home page on the World-Wide Web. Crowds of 
athletes and coaches swarmed into Commons every day for lunch. 
Graciously, the universiry footed the bjll for these activities and 
provided countless resources in the form of staff time. Not that 
Yale did not reap benefits for ·its generosity: when the Special 
Olympi"cs Opening Ceremonies, held at the Yale Bowl, aired on 
prime-time television, cameras captured an oversized Yale banner 
every time they panned the box of guests of honor, President Bill 
and First Lady Hillary Rodham Clinton. Each time a delegation 
of athletes marched onto the decorated field, a sportscaster 
droned, "Now entering the Yale Bowl, the team from .... " 
But for Barbara, the significance of the Opening Ceremonies 
as a media coup for her employer concerned her less than the 
transportation debacle that threatened her dedicated team of 
volunteers at the rollerskating venue. So well-attended were the 
Opening Ceremonies that the traffic congestion prevented bus 
drivers from shuttling the last batch of athletes back t0 their 
dorms until almost 3 a.m. The rumor spreading around the 
officials' room at Ingalls Rink was that buses were going to run an 
hour late, so that bus drivers could rest. Late buses meant late 
athletes and a late start to the day's already packed schedule of 
competition. Even by 12:15 p.m., 15 minutes before competition 
had been scheduled to start, the only athletes that had arrived to 
start warming up were those staying in nearby Yale residential 
colleges. They had walked the short distance up Prospect Street to 
Ingalls Rink. 

In the officials' room, members of the rollerskacing planning 
SEPTEMBER 8, 1995 
~~ 
~-~ 
!!ipeclal Olympic• 
International 
committee, clad in various Special Olympics T-shirts, listened 
intently to Anne Wahlig, head of rollerskating for Special 
Olympics International. Anne spoke clearly and energetically, 
telling her team what to do. Remnants of doughnuts and glasses 
of orange juice lay on tables next to official Special Olympics 
documents. The relaxed attitude in the officials' room had been 
shattered-no more small talk about the celebrities who had 
starred in the opening ceremonies the night before. 

Formally and authoritatively, the head official informed the 
others that they would have to delay competition at least one 
hour so that athletes would have time to arrive and warm up. 
Meanwhile, Commissioner Chesler had pulled the cellular phone 
out of her pocket and was punching the buttons in frustration, 
trying to reach someone who could either confirm the rumors 
about the reasons for the transportation delay or exert his or her 
authority to make the buses run on time. She tried the 
transportation headquarters of the Special Olympics World 
Games and then the movement control headquarters, repeatedly, 
but co no avail. She had to admit, though, that part of the 
problem stemmed from her uncertainty about which of these 
departments was responsible for the transportation of athletes. 

While officials and members of Barbara's rollerskating 
committee hurriedly took notes, the head official discussed details 
about how figures, the first scheduled event, could be judged 
without all the figure rollerskaters present. Suddenly, a volunteer 
burst into the officials' room to announce that the first bus of 
athletes had just arrived. People cheered, then immediately fell 
silent again and listened to the head official, fully aware of time 
pressing forward. 

Even though several more buses of 
athletes and coaches arrived soon 
afterward, Barbara continued trying to 
contact the transportation headquarters so 
that they could send over a supervisor. She 
stayed in the officials' room, using a wall 
phone. Meanwhile, her cellular phone 
protruded from her pocket, and her 
beeper made strange noises at her side. 
While movement patrol put Barbara on 
hold, she fiddled with her beeper, trying 
to shut it off. A committee member 
approached her with a document that 
required her signature. Barbara balanced 
the paper on her lap and signed it with 
her right hand, while her left continued to 
fumble for the beeper. 

While she was still on the phone, a 
committee member informed her that the 
&zrbara Chesler, Commissionn- of 
Roliersltating, attempts to solve a 
transportation crisis. 
THE NEW JouRNAL 

womens' locker room had flooded the 
night before due to an air conditioner 
overflow, but that the staff had been able 
to vacuum up the standing water. Barbara 
smiled and said, "Gotta keep your sense of 
humor about these sorts of things." Earlier 
that morning she had attempted to rectify 
the transportation mess by talking to 
Doug Vaugn, a rollerskating committee 
member. Barbara had asked him whether 
he could redesign the signs so that the bus 
drivers could read them without having to 
step outside the bus. She had spent much 
of her time directing buses, since the 
drivers were unable to see the signs 
indicating where they should wait to 
transport people to various other Special 
Olympics venues. 

B 
ack at the rink, Barbara paused for a 
moment. Realizing there was 
nothing that required .immediate 
attention, she struck up a conversation 
with an athlete who was preparing to 
warm up. "Are you having fun?" Barbara 
asked. The woman looked up and 
shrugged her shoulders, motioning 
towards her ear. Barbara saw a large 
hearing aid and realized that the woman 
could not hear the question. She asked 
again, speaking a little louder, but the 
woman still could not hear. Instead of 
giving up, Barbara turned around and 
asked a surprised coach if anyone nearby 
knew sign language. One woman stepped 
forward, and Barbara asked her to sign to 
the athlete that Barbara was looking 
forward to watching her skate. The 
confusion 
on 
the 
athlete's 
face 
disappeared-she looked relieved that she 
had finally understood. 

Meanwhile, speed skaters tore around 
Ingalls Rink, their faces aggressively 
SEPTEMBER 8, 199S 
focused on the competition ahead. They 
concentrated on performing the correct 
streamlined motions in order to increase 
their speed. 

Several rollerskaters 
competing in the artistic half of the 
program marked out their routines. Chris 
Gaimari, who had competed in several 
previous Special Olympics World Games 
and was favored to win the gold medal for 
the freestyle artistic event, practiced a 
difficult formation called "shoot the 
duck." One of his teammate's roller skates 
traced figure eight lines similar to the ice 
skating figures that were formerly part of 
the Winter Olympics. A woman in a pink 
sequined leotard sat tensely lacing her 
skates, her eyes darting between the· 
asphalt floor of the rink and the eleven 
flags hung impressively above. Warming 
up for the dance event, a couple skated 
around the the rink in sync. 

Michael, an 11-year-old speed skater, 
looked up when his parents and neighbors 
arrived greeting him with loud cheers and 
congratulatory remarks. In fact, almost 
every athlete had several people in the 
bleachers rooting specifically for him or 
her. Almost every spectator knew one of 
the competitors personally; very few 
people had come just to see Special 
Olympics rollerskating. Although Michael 
... 
~ 
0 
clearly enjoyed the attention, he looked 
slightly annoyed when his mother started 
straightening his shirt. He listened, 
uninterested, as she told him how many 
more Special Olympics flags and pins she 
had bought for him that day. His father 
nudged him and said, "Hey Michael, 
maybe you'll get to see Arnold 
Schwartzenneger tonight during the 
opening ceremonies!" Michael wasn't · 
listening, though. His focus was far from 
celebrity watching; instead, he was 
contemplating how he could perform up 
to his maximum potentiaL He had seen 
his coach and was waving him over. In an 
urgent tone, Michael asked his coach 
whether he should change the wheels on 
his skates to smoother "outdoor wheels." 

In the final moments before the 
'competition began, Ingalls Rink had 
become the still point at the center of 
Barbara's elaborate organizational storm of 
buses, volunteers, and clipboards. All 
Michael noticed was the asphalt, the other 
competitors, and his own dream of 
rollerskating to a gold medal. 


**Bearing Witness**
**Author: Karen Jacobson**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
J
oanne Rudof tells a story about a l 0-year-old Hungarian boy 
who survived Nazi labor camps. "He went to a Yeshiva. And 
every lunch time he would tell these stories of what he did 
and what he experienced during the war. And one day when 
he went out he heard one child say to another child, 'Let's get 
Marry to tell us more of his bullshit stories, and that's when Marty 
stopped telling his 'bullshit' stories." 

Rudof, the organizer of Yale's Fortunoff Video Archive for 
Holocaust Testimonies, oversees the recording of survivor 
accounts. Only recently have people begun talking about their 
experiences during the Holocaust. "They wanted to talk after the 
war, [but) when they talked, people shut them off," Rudof said. "I 
think one reason that survivors didn't talk is that they perceived 
people didn't want to hear what they had said." 

Today, as some of the youngest survivors of the concentration 
camps reach retirement age, there is more time in their lives to 
remember. Memories they attempted to forget are coming back. 
Suddenly, they want to speak out. 

Two projects are helping them do this by conducting 
interviews in a format that allows the survivors to speak of what 
they witnessed. The process is both painful and relieving. For 
survivors telling their stories, there are sleepless nights both 
preceding and following the interviews. There is also the hope that 
once they have spoken, they will no longer live alone with their 
horrors. 

16 
Tht only ont what's /ivtd it through knows rtally what happmtd. 
Bteaust tht fulings [that] art involvtd with this story, thry art not tht 
samt. But you cannot ttl/ how I ftlt whm I found tht ckuhts of my 
brothtr, for txampk [whik sorting tht garmmts of thost who had just 
bun gaJud]. Now if you aJk mt what I was thinking about, I wasn't 
thinking at all. I was horrifitd. But I can ttl/ tht story, and it 
sounds-wt/1, anothtr story. " 

Wt/1, how shall I rkscribt to you how Auschwitz was?" 


**Holocaust Archives**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

0 
n the third floor of Sterling Memorial Library in the 
Fortunoff Video Archive, thousands of individuals address 
this problem. VHS videotapes, each marked and coded, 
line the walls from floor to ceiling in the small, cramped room. 
Books of Holocaust memoirs are squeezed behind a crowded row 
of desks. Artifacts, books, and tapes have priority over people in 
this room where Holocaust survivors' testimonies are archived by a 
small staff. After 16 years of work, 3,500 testimonies have been 
recorded. 

On the opposite side of the country, in the same trailer where 
production work for jurassic Park was done, the Survivors of the 
Shoah (Hebrew for Holocaust) Visual History Foundation has its 
headquarters at Universal Studios. The modest trailer contains 
crowded desks near a clock-covered wall telling times from around 
the world-Los Angeles, Chicago, Miami/New York/Toronto, 
THE NEW JouRNAL 


.A Holocaust memoriAl erected in D~~eh.u, Germany. 
Buenos Aires, London, Amsterdam/Frankfurt/Johannesburg, 
Paris/Prague, Jerusalem, St. Petersburg, Sydney. These are the 
cities where Steven Spielberg, the acclaimed movie director, has set 
up projects to tape the stories of Holocaust survivors. 

In another trailer, volunteers answer che project's hotline and 
enter facts about survivors into a database. Sixty-four computers 
catalogue the 64 taped interviews expected to come in each day. 
Inside a Universal Studios building, high-tech computers digitize 
the tapes to CD-ROM. In its first year, Spielberg's project has 
taped 3,000 testimonies. The goal is to reach 50,000 in the next 
few years. 

Spielberg's Shoah Foundation has raised $19 million in the 
past year from corporate sponsors such as MCA, Warner Bros., 
UPS, and Silicon Graphics, Inc. The largest grants for Yale's 
Fortunoff project, from the Charles H. Revson Foundation and 
from Alan M. Fortunoff, on the other hand, total less than one 
million. This money will run out by the end of 1996, forcing Yale 
to discontinue taping. 


**The Trauma of Testimony**
**Page number(s): 17**

P
rior to the late seventies, no real forum existed for survivors 
to relate accounts of the Holocaust. A handful of 
individuals, like Elie Wiesel and Primo Levi, wrote memoirs. 
The majority, however, did not discuss what had happened. Many 
feared, often unconsciously, that no one would listen, and the 
mistakes of the Holocaust would be echoed. 

SEPTEMBER 8, 1995 
"The fear that fate will strike again is crucial to the memory of 
trauma. The act of telling itself becomes severely traumatizing if 
the price of speaking is reliving, not relief," writes Dr. Dori Laub 
in ustimony: Crises of Witnming in Litaatur~. Psychoanalysis, and 
History, a holocaust survivor himself and co-founder of the 
Fortunoff pr.)ject. "If one talks about the trauma without being 
truly heard or truly listened to, the telling might itself be lived as a 
return to the trauma-a re-experiencing of the event." 

The Yale project confronts this reticence, typical of survivors. 
Fortunoff program advisor Dr. Geoffrey Hartman {GRD '53), 
professor of comparative literature at Yale, became involved in the 
project after his wife gave her testimony. He said that, initially, 
survivors did not know whether they could trust the program. 
They knew nothing about Yale, except that it was not a Jewish 
institution, and were unsure what the program hoped to 
accomplish. Much of the work of Hartman and his associates has 
consisted of overcoming the survivors' suspicion of being 
interviewed. The survivor must initiate the taping at Yale and 
most of those who have been taped learned about the project by 
word of mouth or through the newspaper. "When they finally 
came in they gave us their trust and we worked from hand to 
mouth. We weren't high-tech in any way," Hartman sai~. 

For Spielberg, gaining the trust of survivors was less difficult. 
Because of his Jewish background, and particularly because of his 
reputation as the maker of the 1993 film Schindla's List, 
17 


**Spielberg's Project**
**Page number(s): 17-18**

As survivors reach 
retirement age there is 
more time to remember. 
Memories they attempted 
to forget are coming 
back. They want to speak. 
Holocaust survivors living in the United 
States were less suspicious of him. 

Spielberg drew inspiration for the 
project during the filming of Schindltr's 
List. He was quoted in Tht Ntw York 
Timts as saying, "At least a dozen 
Holocaust survivors journeyed [to Poland] 
using the film as a cushion to find closure 
with their nightmare. They showed up, 
and often through tears began telling us 
their stories. I kept saying to them, 'Thank 
you for telling me, but I wish you could 
say this to a camera because this is 
important testimony.' I asked them if 
they'd be willing to do this, and they all 
said yes." 

In a press release dated August 31, 
1994, Spielberg announced his plan to 
create the largest videotape library of 
The Fortunoff Video Archive on the third 
floor of Sterling Memorial Library. 
18 
Holocaust survivor testimonies ever 
recorded. "We have assembled a bright and 
dedicated team of historians, documentary 
film makers, Holocaust survivors, 
educators, archivists, and communication 
technology experts devoted to preserving 
the memory of the Holocaust," the release 
stated. 

The film maker has since set up two 
institutions: the Righteous Person's 
Foundation, which receives all the profits 
from Schindkr's List, and the Survivors of 
the Shoah Foundation, which carries out 
the work of recording survivors' 
testimonies. Spielberg recruited the 
producers of Schindler's List and a 
Universal Studios executive as the 
executive producers for the project. 
Independent producers June Beallor and 
James Moll run the day-to-day operations. 


**The Yale Project**
**Page number(s): 18**

I 
n contrast to the grand fund raisers and 
the blitz of press releases that ushered 
in Spielberg's project last year, the Yale 
project began modestly in 1979. Laurel 
Vlock, an independent television producer 
from New Haven, contacted Laub about 
taping survivor testimonies after the 
success of her Emmy award-winning 
documentary on the dedication of the 
Holocaust Memorial on Whalley Avenue. 
NBC had recently produced a series 
entitled Ho/Qcaust, piquing interest in the 
subject. In many ways the television series 
inspired the video project, explained Laub, 
because it exposed the need for an account 
of life during the Holocaust that was not 
steeped in fiction. "[The series) didn't 
seem to comprehend what the Holocaust 
was all about," he said. Vlock and Laub 
joined forces, making use of their 
respective resources and areas of expertise. 
Vlock had access to a camera crew, and 
Laub contacted a Jewish center to find 
survivors willing to talk about their 
experience;. They taped the first 
testimonies in Laub's office. 

"On that first night we expected the 
taping to last two hours," said Laub. "It 
lasted until three in the morning. We 
realized this was something we had to do. 
It was nothing we had heard before, the 
power, the detail, the reflection without 
preparation. We didn't know they had it in 
them; they didn't know they had it." 

The process begins when 
an 
interviewer calls a survivor for a pre-taping 
session to construct a rough outline of his 
or her story. Survivors are encouraged to 
bring any memorabilia they would like 
recorded. Drawing on the information 
given, the interviewer completes further 
research to prepare for the taping. 

"We do a pre-interview work-up so the 
interviewers have a broad outline of what 
they'll hear," says Rudof. "From that pre-
interview outline, [interviewers] hit the 
books and make sure they are familiar with 
all the routes these people travelled." 

Roughly, the process involves a detailed 
study of maps to make sure interviewers 
have a feel for where events took place, 
and a review of the history of each 
location, so experiences can be placed into 
context. 

The camera focuses on the survivor 
from the waist up during an interview, 
zooming in and out to capture each 
gesture and expression. The interviewer 
asks the survivor to begin telling his or her 
story from as far back as possible, usually 
beginning with details about his or her 
birthplace. 

"We don't like to use the word 
'interviewer' because it brings to mind a 
television personality," said Rudof. "And 



**Title: The Fortunoff Video Archive for Holocaust Testimonies**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 19-20**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
when Barbara Walters does an interview, 
or Dan Rather does an interview, they own 
that interview. They know what they are 
looking for, and they go into [it] as the 
dominant partner in the interview." The 
project's interviewers, Rudof explained, go 
into the room as avid listeners, 
encouraging each survivor to tell his or her 
story in his or her own way. They must 
listen closely so as to keep the story in the 
correct place and time. 


Hartman stressed the importance of 
preventing the survivors' words from being 
influenced by the interviewer. "We say, 
'Don't impose your ideas on the survivor,'" 
he said. "This is a rich archive full of 
anecdotes, stories, history of everyday life 
under grim circumstances." 


Interviewers for the Fortunoff project 
go through an eight-week training course, 
then return each year for three or four 
sessions of refresher courses. "What we do 
or what we recommend to our affiliates is 
that they train the interviewer over a range 
of weeks so that things sink in and the 
interviewers [have time to] do a lot ot: 
reading," said Hartman. 


There are 12 interviewers at Yale for 
the 50 to 70 interviews done each year. No 
new interviewers have been trained since 
1984. "The more people do this, the better 
they become at doing it, so we would 
prefer to stay with the ones we have," 
Rudof explained. 


T
he scope of the Spielberg project 
demands the ability to train large 
numbers of interviewers in a short 
period of time. Prospective interviewers 
only train for two days, or about 20 hours. 
"In the beginning we knew it was 
necessary to have some sort of training for 
the interviewers but we didn't realize [to 
SEPTEMBER 8, 1995 
The Fortunofl" 
Video Archive 
for Holocaust Testimonies 
Vol< Univmicy 
The Fortunoff ana Shoah foundations' pamphlets are distributed to synagogues and jewish 
centers in the hope of ~aching survivors. 
what] extent," said producer Moll. 


"In L.A. recently, over a 1,000 
interviewers applied. Two hundred may 
attend the [training) session, and 100 will 
be accepted to do interviews for the 
foundation," said Moll. About 700 
interviewers work for the Survivors of the 
Shoah Foundation across the U.S. and 
abroad. Their newsletter boasts of a 
woman whose team recorded 52 
testimonies in one week. 


Yale, as the first institution to tape 
survivor testimony, has learned a great deal 
in the past 16 years. It helped initiate a 
number of similar projects around the 
world, 
including Spielberg's. 


Yet 
Spielberg's promotional pamphlets merely 
cite Yale as a depository of their tapes, not 
as the creator of this model for oral 
testimony. Although Hartman was 
originally wary of the Spielberg project, he 
is more optimistic today. "They have 
persuaded me during the past yea.r of their 
seriousness, of their capacity to learn," he 
said. 


There are some differences in the 
methods of taping used by Yale and 
Spielberg. Both sides argue that their 
format is most conducive to gathering 
testimony. While the Yale project places no 
time limits on interviews, the Spielberg 
project, in its effort to record as many 
testimonies as possible, limits each session 
to two hours. "We needed to prepare a 
budget so we decided to go with that 
average length knowing that we would 
expand it if necessary, and we have ... we 
don't cut them off," said Moll. "They are 
trained to spend a solid half-hour on 
prewar experiences ... , an hour on war 
experiences, and then a half-hour on 
postwar life, but its not limited." 


The setting of the taping sessions also 
differ. The Yale project has always taped 
outside of the home, beginning in Laub's 
office and then moving to Yale's 
audiovisual center in the basement of 
Street Hall. "We have never really done 
taping in people's homes," said Rudof. 
"You have to worry about soundproofing, 
the lighting is difficult, the phone is 
ringing, the refrigerator motor is 
disturbing ... it's really hard to control." 


In the studio, the survivor is allowed to 
decide whether somebody who has 
accompanied her or him to the site 
remains in the control room during the 
interview. Many prefer to go through the 
interview alone, even when it means 
asking a spouse, or son, or daughter to
wait outside. Giving the survivor these 
options helps them to feel they are in 
control, said Rudof. "I think part of the 
ability to talk about this is to talk about it 
to a stranger in a vety neutral setting," she 
added. "A person's home is loaded, and 
you don't want to pollute [the] house." 


Spielberg prefers to use a fuHy mobile 
camera crew in his interviews, taping in 
the survivors home whenever possible. 
"LogisticaHy, it [is] convenient to film in 
the home," said one of the project's 
producers, June Beallor. "We [find) that 
the survivors [are] more comfortable in 
their own surroundings and that it 
[imparts) their own character, because we 
[are] in their home with their own 
material, their own photographs. It gives 
an insight to who they are as individuals." 


With many of the interviewees being in 
their 70s and 80s, filming at home can be 
much easier, Beallor added. 


Still, one disadvantage of filming in 
people's homes is the tendency for 
survivors to avoid painful or grotesque 
material, either because they do not want 
to make family members uncomfortable, 
or because they are afraid to let loose 
horrible images in the place where they 
spend their time. 


Hartman said that while the Spielberg 
method may ultimately be less effective, 
the simple fact that the project will have 
done 50,000 interviews, as compared to 
Yale's predicted 4,000 interviews, assures 
that it will unearth important material. 
"The statistics are working for them," he 


Hartman's main focus for the Yale 
project is continued expansion to include 
more survivors across the U.S. and around 
the world. "In 1980 we were saying exactly 
the same thing [as the Spielberg people)," 
said Hartman. "We don't have all that 
much time. We've got to do it." 


I
n a small archive room in Sterling 
Memorial Library, a tape slips into the 
VCR. A viewer puts on a headset and is 
alone with the videotaped person. It is not 
the image of a skeletal Holocaust victim or 
the innocent eyes of Anne Frank. This 
individual is someone you might pass on 
the street, a middle-aged to elderly man or 
woman, dressed smartly, with a German, 
Polish, or other European accent. Behind 
them there is only a plain off-white wall, 
or a simple wall-hanging. The only place 
for the viewer's eye to rest is on the 
witness' face. The tapes are unedited; the 
camera never stops or cuts to a different 
angle. The viewer cannot fall back on the 
idea that this is merely fiction. 


Throughout the testimonies, the


**Title:  Untitled Article (Holocaust Testimony)**
**Page number(s): 20-21**

perplexity of the survivor today at the 
moral distance from the events they lived 
is painfully clear. They pause, their eyes or 
face wrench, and the silence is heavy. The 
struggle to narrate the immorality of the 
time is excruciatingly vivid. 


Myra L. stays composed through the 
worst of the narrative. Her big eyes 
captivate the viewer, but her posture is 
relaxed, her hands folded on her lap. It is 
as if her stories happened to someone 
else-until she recounts the death of her 
nephew. 


The little boy came to her in the 
Warsaw Ghetto before one of the large 
round-ups. She was a nurse sharing an 
apartment with her two brothers. Her 
nephew, the son of her sister who had died 
at the beginning of the 
Ger~an 
occupation, lived in an orphanage. At one 
point it was announced that all children 
under the age of ten were to be taken to 
camps. The child was only nine-and-a-
half, and small for his size, due to lack of 
nutrition from growing up during the war 
years. He pleaded with his aunt to let him 
stay with her. She describes how she can 
still see his eyes. At the time, in the ghetto, 
she thought he had a better chance in the 
orphanage than with her, so she told him 
no. When the day for round-ups came, 
Myra was told that she and her family 
would be allowed to stay because she was a 
nurse. Looking back she thinks she could 
have saved her nephew easily. She begins 
to cry as the anguish comes through, that 
she really did say no. "The survival will 
was so big that no one was sacrificing 
oneself for someone else," she says. In 
1984, the year Myra gave her testimony, 
this decision of 40 years earlier is 
unbearable. 


The tapes a re unedited; 
the camera never stops or 
cuts to a different angle. 
The viewer cannot fall 
back on the idea that this 
is merely fiction. 


((wen I looked at some of the 
video testimonies I saw 
what a powerful way to 
record and transmit information [it was]," 
said Hartman. "There are qualities that the 
printed record of the historians cannot 
reach adequately. In addition to history 
writing and audio testimony, [video] adds 
something experiential." 


"The story is the point of view of the 
victims," said Rudof. "There are tens of 
thousands of sheets of German documents, 
and if that's the only documents the 
scholar studies, then they will have a very 
biased point of view. So we are trying to 
balance chat. Many of these people will 
never write a memoir, so this provides 
them an opportunity to tell their story." 


There has already been debate about 
the historical importance of this testimony. 
The earliest audiovisual records were 
completed at Yale 40 years after the event. 
Laub, who specializes in trauma studies, 
has noted how the mind tends to encode 
the memories of trauma more deeply than 
other recollections. Memories, though, are 
never as factual as the accounts in the 
military records kept by the Nazis. 


An interview that Laub conducted 
himself exemplifies chis debate. The 
woman he was interviewing described an 
uprising chat occurred while she was in 
Auschwitz. Describing her testimony, he 
wrote, "A sudden intense, passion and 
color were infused into the narrative. She 
was fully there. J\11 of a sudden,' she said, 
'we saw four chimneys going up in flames, 
exploding. The flames shot into the sky, 
people were running. It was unbelievable.' 
There was a silence in the room, a fixed 
silence against which the woman's words 
reverberated loudly, as though carrying 
along an echo of the jubilant sounds 


**Your Eytwtar Alttrnatirt**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Your Eytwtar Alttrnatirt 
Comrrehensive lye lxams 
Contact enses • fashion lyewear 
Far-10 Y'CJI!, we hM wabd *Y hard lo 
pnMdt lhe besllrie, best ~ 
IIIII lhe 
=~pUs 
far .. , .... HMn en! til 
Wt wcdilla lo lhrt 011 llinlllar •..m. 
...._ ________ 
~ 011 tlfarts cnl...q Ill wilh ,_ plllliglous Bnt Eye Doctor 
_._ 
Fttllrinl tht PntJt Jtltctill 1/ltntr tltftlf 11 lllflltttl llrtJt ltictJ. 
AUUT HII'ON 
Allo'IWI!t ~ 
e.!,-oer 
-
Colvi'IK!eWI 
WDml«) ~~-
·=:.·· 
~ 
q 
~~ 
NMG4t:E' ~ 
1044 CHAPEL ST. • SHERMAN'S AWY, NEW HAVEN • 787·7111 
-Validated Parking Available-


**Oral History and the Holocaust**
**Author: Karm Jacobson**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

exploding from behind barbed wires, a 
stampede of people breaking loose, 
screams, shots" battle cries, explosions. It 
was no longer the deadly timelessness of 
Auschwin ... The woman fell silent and the 
tumults of the moment faded. She became 
subdued again and her voice resumed the 
uneventful, almost monotonous and 
lamenting tone." 

Laub showed the testimony a few 
months later at a conference with 
historians. The historians argued that it 
was factually known that not four but only 
one chimney had exploded. They 
emphasized the importance of accuracy so 
that revisionists could not use such 
testimony to discredit proof of the 
Holocaust. 

Laub disagreed, and the structure of 
the testimonies support his argument. Oral 
history should not be used like the written 
documentation by the Nazis themselves, 
which accurately catalogues the events. 
"The woman was testifying not to the 
chimneys blown up, but to something else 
more radical, more crucial: the reality of 
an unimaginable occurrence. One chimney 
blown up in Auschwitz was as incredible as 
four ... The woman testified to an event that 
broke the all-compelling frame of 
Auschwitz, where Jewish armed revolts just 
did not happen, and had no place. She 
testified to the breakage of a framework. 
That was historical truth." 

"The university is important," said 
Hartman. "We cannot expect oral history 
to be as precise as research since this is 
memory of 50 years now. This gathers 
information on daily hiding and 
activities., 

The archives of videotapes reveal 
humanity in detail. Instead of directing the 
tapings with preset agendas, 'interviewers 
allow survivors to guide the convc.rsation. 
At Yale, interviewers make exceptions 
occasionally to help illuminate less 
documented areas of Holocaust history. 
The academic setting of Yale's project 
encourages feedback from researchers who 
will eventually use these tapes. 

During the past 16 years, Yale has 
refined its model for interviewing. Now it 
hopes to pass on this knowledge to the 
young Spielberg group. Spielberg has 
donated $500,000 to the Fortunoff 
project, but has earmarked it for 
cataloguing purposes only, not taping. And 
while Spielberg reaps the benefits of Yale's 
years of experience, Fortunoff faces 
financial doom. Unless another major 
grant appears in the next year, Yale must 
discontinue taping testimonies. Yale's 
ground-breaking work has allowed 
Spielberg to jump in quickly without 
difficulty. These interviews are not filled 
with heroic acts and happy endings; the 
interviewers and the interviewing process 
must allow both the testifier and the 
viewer the forum to hear the stories. 

If you wa~ not tha~ it is difficult to 
tkscrib~ and say how it was ... ! don't know if 
th"~ is [a] word to dmrib~ th~ nightmar~ 
on~ go~s through ... how mm fonction untkr 
such a strm is on~ thing, and thm how you 
communicatt and txprm [to] som~body who 
n~v~r ltn~w that such a d~gru of brutality 
[is] txisting sums lilt~ a fantasy ... 

The viewer leans toward the screen, her 
body tense, responding to every word the 
witness utters. She looks to others sitting 
around her for similar responses, but they 
do not hear the testimony she hears in her 
earphones. She squirms, yet cannot turn 
off the tape, cannot stop the story midway 
through. She wonders, 'What would I have 
done, how would I have acted?' As 
Hartman wrote in "Learning from 
Survivors: the Yale Testimony Project," 
"Face to face with that world, it is our 
search for meaning which is disclosed, as if 
we had to be comforted for what they 
suffered." The viewer walks away from 
that interview. Yet, just as the testifier, she 
feels she must speak and must talk about 
the trauma she has just witnessed. These 
projects aim to compel her to speak, to 
fulfill the promise inscribed on the Dachau 
memorial, "Never Again.'" 

"As quo£ed in Ho/Quust T~stimDni~s: th~ r11ins of 
-Dry, by Lawrence Langer. 
Karm Jacobson, a junior in Jonathon 
Edwards Co/kg~. is a rmarch ~ditor ofTNJ.



MICHAets FLOWERS Ud. 
Extreoocll• y 
Flowers & Plenla. 
ere.- Oeeigna For 
AI Occ:uionl. 
(203) 772-2229 
Visit us at 26 Whitney Avenue 
New Haven, CT 06510 
Our designers work for you.


HOUSE 
OF 
CHAO 
CHINESE 
RESTAURANT 
We serve 
traditional 
fine Chinese 
food 
Mon -Frl 
11 :30am-10pm 
Satttlllpm 
Sun noon-9:30pm 
HAVEH, CT 
WESMW VIL.LAGE) • 389-6624 
OUT 011D111S • VISA • 0tscovu o MAIITIIC:AIIIC


Standard Food 
Market 
852 State Street 
New Haven. cr 00511 
Ph. 777 ~4000 
F resh Fruit 8l Vq&etablea, 
Nutme£ Kielbasa 
Brooklyn Bakery Bread 
Hours: Wd. Thur. Fri 8:30-5:30pm 
Sat 8:00-3:00pm 
Catering For Special Parties


,, Fine ~~ian 
Cu1s1ne 
1ANiXf>R 
Restaurant 
Liquor License 
Lunch 11:30-3:00 • Dinner 5:00-11:00 
,, 
7 days a week 
1226 Chapel Street • New Haven 
(203) 776-6620


**Adding Sex·Ed to Street Smarts**
**Author: Halary Margolis**
**Page number(s): 24**

Every day, students i.n New Hoven's schools hear that their oge group has the fastest 
growing rate of HfV-infection. But now, health educators must reach drop-outs 
beyond school walls. 

L
eaving a New Haven dance club one night, Deborah Bey 
spots teenagers huddled together on the street corner. 
Unlike most New Haven residents, she approaches them 
and begins asking questions. As director of education for 
AIDS Project-New Haven, she urges them to participate in a 
youth group sponsored by her agency. The teens' immediate 
response is a refusal to attend. Bey then asks if they are practicing 
safe sex. Their reply is a resounding "no" that echoes in Bey's ears 
and triggers the first step in her effort to turn their response 
around. 

Such responses are prompting the creation of outreach 
programs for kids no longer enrolled in New Haven schools. If 
the teenagers with whom Bey spoke were enrolled in school, they 
would have a School-Based Health Center (SBHC) to provide 
information and support in matters of mental and physical health. 
In particular, condoms would be available to them as part of a 
project adopted two years ago. High school drop-outs such as 
those Bey confronted have no SBHC to inform them about 
AIDS, tell them the benefits of abstinence, or hand them a 
condom. While the SBHCs are themselves a success story, the fact 
that their services reach only those students enrolled in public 
school illustrates their failure to address the needs of all of New 
Haven's youth. 

Supported by a combination of public and private funding 
and staffed by a wide range of health professionals, Connecticut's 
SBHCs (including seven clinics in New Haven} aim to provide 
comprehensive primary health care for public school students. 
According to Connecticut's Department of Health and Addiction 
Services, 13 percent of students using SBHCs in 1993-94 had no 
form of consistent medical care, and 8 percent used the SBHCs as 
their only regular form of health care. A 1993 New Haven Social 
and Health Assessment Survey found that 65 to 70 percent of 
tenth graders were sexually active. Studies done by Yale-New 
Haven Hospital reported that one in 38 pregnant women in New 
Haven deliver HIV-positive infants in New Haven, the highest 
ratio in the United States. In reaction to these statistics, 
administrators and SBHC workers have become intent on taking 
measures to prevent teen pregnancy and sexually transmitted 
diseases. Their first step was establishing more complete services 
regarding sex education and STD/AIDS prevention through the 
SBHCs. 

During the 1993-94 school year, condoms were made 
avaihlble at clinics at Jackie Robinson Middle School, Fair Haven 
Middle School, Wilbur Cross High School, and Hillhouse High 
School. Jane Stern, a nurse practitioner at the Fair Haven Middle 
School Hea,lth Clinic, said that the clinic staff follows strict 
guidelines .regarding the program's intentions. "The goal is AIDS 
prevention, not birth control. The number one issue we discuss is 
abstinence. It's all about AIDS prevention," she says. 

AIDS is not a foreign concept to many students in New 
Haven. Patricia McCann-Vissepo, chair of the Board of Education 
for New Haven Public Schools, believes that one reason parents 
have remained relatively calm about condom distribution in the 
schools is because of the impact AIDS has had on their lives and 
those of their children. "This is not abstract, this is very real to 
people. Four out of 25 kids in ·my son's fourth-grade class lost a 
family member to AIDS," McCann-Vissepo reveals. She believes 
that many parents felt a heavy weight being lifted from their 
shoulders with the beginning of condom availability in the 
schools. "I think they heaved a sight of relief. They said, 
'Someone's doing something, and maybe now I don't have to."' 

While it is too early to know whether SBHCs' new focus 
has decreased the number of HIV-positive students in 
New Haven schools, the program's supporters believe 
that it is proving successful. "I'm sure that in the group of 
children who have been counseled, we have saved someone," says 
McCann-Vissepo. Bey points to the fact that most students see 
from four to 20 AIDS presentations during high school. 
"Something is going to seep in, even if you're not always paying 
attention." Bethany, a junior at Hillhouse High School, believes 
that merely having a clinic on school grounds dramatically 
increases the amount of information students receive. "We spend 
most of the day at school. Now that the clinic is here, we have no



**School-Based Health Clinics: A Lifeline for New Haven Teens**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
DON'T BE 
SHAME 
BE GA
choice but to walk past it fi~e times a day. You see a sign in the 
clinic window and you read it. Seeing information makes students 
curious, makes them ask questions, and then they learn the facts," 
she says. 


The students also emphasize the importance of services 
rendered at the clinics that they may not find elsewhere. For 
Bethany, condom distribution is the most important function of 
her SBHC. "Lots of girls I've talked to are embarrassed to buy 
condoms at the store. What if they need a price check on them 
while you're at the register? That's embarrassing," Bethany says. 
"Condoms are expensive. If they don't have the money, some kids 
will do what they have to do, if you know what I mean." To 
anyone who does not catch Bethany's meaning, the statistics prove 
her point: with or without condoms, kids are having sex. In 
addition to providing condoms and health education, the clinics 
appear to fulfill the role of a support network envisioned by Janet 
Spinner, chair of the Adolescent Committee of the Mayor's 
AIDS/HIV Task Force. Bethany attests to this; she learned the 
value of the SBHC's support system when she lost her own father 
to AIDS. "To come to school and have them say they're available 
to you is a big help," Bethany says. "Drop-outs are missing out on 
a good opportunity." 
SEPTEMBER 8, 1995


Despite a positive attitude towards the SBHCs, the 
program's supporters acknowledge its failures along with 
its successes. "We still need to demonstrate to children 
that they have other options in life than to become sexually 
active," McCann-Vissepo says. Spinner believes the SBHCs and 
outreach programs are far from the best format for delivering 
information. But she also sees the undisputed facts. "We need to 
makes condoms available. I would prefer that parents do it and 
have the discussion with their children. The clinics are the second 
or third best option," she says. For now, however, they may be the 
best option for New Haven teenagers who are not receiving 
information in their homes. Spinner tells a joke about the lack of 
communication between parents and kids regarding sex. "What 
~re the two kinds of people who never have sex?" she asks wryly, 
answering her own question with more than a hint of irony. "Our 
parents and our kids." Spinner is so familiar with the untruth in 
this statement that she barely sees the humor anymore. If the 
parents and schools are not doing enough to educate kids on the 
streets and change their behavior, Spinner knows that she has to 
try. "I'd rather they abstain, but if they have gonorrhea twice, I 
want to save their lives," she says. "I think their lives are worth 
. "


Spinner recalls a time when condoms were nowhere to be 
found in clinics and sex education did not exist in schools. She 
has diagnosed countless HIV-positive teens and seen many 
pregnancies. In the face of this, Spinner created the Task Force to 
encourage the incorporation of more comprehensive SBHC's and 
condom distribution into all New Haven schools. 

While condom distribution draws the most attention, 
administrators and health professionals believe the SBHCs more 
important role is to provide support for kids who can't find it 
outside of school. "The program is really the clinic, and the red 
herring is the condoms," says Spinner. Her voice takes on a tone 
of urgency and a hint of sadness as she discusses the plight of 
many New Haven teenagers. "[Sexually active] kids need someone 
to say, 'Hi, are you in there? I love you. I care about you.' And 
you'll knock on the kid's door 112 times before they let you in. 
25 


**Elm Street Fighter**
**Author: Dan Murphy**
**Page number(s): 30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I'm facing my roommate Steven on a city street in Beijing. As the locals pass on bicycles, we're engaged in a fight to the death. I grab Steven in a headlock and punch him until he flips over, a tangled mess of arms and legs. I pump my fist in the air as my friends whoop and shout in celebration. Suddenly, a vicious kick to the head sends me crashing to the floor. 
Miraculously restored, Steven stands over me, laughing a twisted sort of cackle. Exulting over this latest blow, he declares, "Oh man, that was sick!"

It's not that we don't like each other. And neither one of us is particularly violent. We're only like this when we're playing Street Fighter. Sega has transformed our otherwise peaceful common room into something out of Lord of the Flies.

Nearly everyone on our floor enjoys some level of addiction; at least it's comforting to know that we're not alone in our mania. Especially among males, Sega has become one of Yale's most popular pastimes, a video-game subculture complete with its own language. For the uninitiated, the above scene might seem a mystery. But Sega players are familiar with the violence of Street Fighter, Sega's most popular game.

Street Fighter's premise is simple: two characters, chosen from the game's twelve stock personalities, beat on each other until one knocks the other out. Each character has a signature move which only he or she can perform. For instance, Chun-Li, a slight Asian woman (and, incidentally, the only female character) specializes in the Chinny-Chi Ching, a devastating maneuver in which she turns upside down, and scissors her legs like helicopter rotor blades to elevate herself, repeatedly kicking her opponent's head. Aaron, the senior down the hall who's on his way to Yale Law School, claims to be the world's leading authority on Chun-Li, having spent months mastering the nuances of the Chinny-Chi Ching. At any hour of the day or night, Aaron can be found too close to the glowing screen with his dirty, size-13 sneakers twisted Indian style. At these moments, his unshaven face and gaping mouth take on a violent look of competitive intensity that stands in stark contrast to Chun-Li's balanced, delicate features. It always seems impossible to me that the herky-jerky motions of Aaron's hairy knuckles on the controller somehow correspond to the graceful poised flips and leaps of his counterpart. I don't think Aaron ever fully appreciates this irony, being too enraptured by the two-inch character existing somewhere between Cindy Crawford and Bruce Lee.

When I play Street Fighter, I usually choose Edmund Honda, a 400-pound Japanese sumo wrestler. This choice is considered something of a cop-out among my friends, due to the fact that Honda has an extremely powerful punch, and in order to win all I have to do is tense up all my muscles, contort my face, and press the punch button as fast as I can to unleash Honda's patented "Fists o' Fury." True Honda players win by defying gravity and flying headfirst at opponents like a human torpedo. I still have a long way to go before I reach that level of expertise.

Just as in sports, stories grow up around Sega, myths about feats and accomplishments. Tom, the junior living down the hall, read that if you reach the end of Street Fighter II without a single loss, all the defeated characters appear in hospital beds. The elusive "hospital beds" quickly became the Holy Grail of my floor, sending Tom on a crusade which remains, to this day, unfulfilled.

I was reminded of our Sega exploits on a recent humid August night at Shea Stadium where the Mets were facing the Los Angeles Dodgers. Most of the evening's 13,000 fans were unapologetically apathetic. Next to me, an overweight, balding man was dozing off with a plate of nachos in his lap, another victim of what the media calls "baseball's soporific pace." Sitting there in the sun, I realized that his dreams could be far more exciting than the lulling action on the field. I pictured him climbing over the barricades and sprinting at lightning speed to the mound to deliver the Chinny-Chi Ching to Dodger pitcher Hideo Nomo. I could see him taking it upon himself to get back at the players for being too skilled, too rich, too blessed with talent.

Perhaps the popularity of Sega's realistic games can blur the line between what's real and what's a video game. Who's to say what is


**AIDS in New Haven**
**Author: Hillary Margolis**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

behind outreach programs for high school drop-outs. 
Bey, for example, continues to chat with teenagers since she first approached young adults outside of the dance club. She has created a personal crusade, using condoms and literature from AIDS Project-New Haven. She speaks to them on her own time, without the formal support of her agency, and she exudes passion for her cause. 

Bey is not satisfied with the solo approach, however. As a member of the Adolescent Committee on the Mayor's HIV/AIDS Task Force, she wants to turn her work into a formal program through her employer agency, AIDS Project-New Haven. As chair of the same committee, Spinner hopes to fill in the gaps in outreach programming for out-of-school youth. "Lots of groups supposedly provide services, but they are underutilized and are only a small part of the overall agencies," Spinner says with dissatisfaction. Plans for new projects throughout the city include vans to distribute condoms and material on HIV/AIDS prevention, as well as coordinating services with grass-roots organizations. In addition, the committee meets with parents and families of school drop-outs and with GED/Adult Education students, whose graduation rate mirrors that of public schools. 

Bey's philosophy is driven by the idea that empowerment must precede effective AIDS education. Burroughs and Spinner agree that kids on the street have dangerously low self-esteem. "When you have the attitude that black men don't live beyond the age of 25, why should you care about AIDS?" Bey asks with a hint of despair. Her question reflects what Spinner terms the spirit of "fatalism," the "it doesn't matter, I'll do it anyway" attitude common on the streets. "A child or young adult putting him- or herself at risk knows how not to risk losing his or her life. What lacks is the ability to negotiate protecting him- or herself and the belief in wanting to survive," she says. 

In Bey's mind, state and national government reinforce this attitude. She cites the tightening of AIDS funding across the country. "This country is going through a conservative tide. People still see AIDS as a gay disease. They think, so what if a poor Latino dies? He wasn't contributing to society, he wasn't working, he was using drugs." 

Bey, Spinner, and Burroughs are all interested in employing techniques of peer counseling and training to empower out-of-school youth. Peer education programs have already proven effective in the public schools. Jones provides an 11-week peer education training course on AIDS and STD prevention through her SBHC at Hillhouse High School. Jones has no delusions about where teenagers get their information. "Peers listen to peers. They listen to each other more than me." 

Burroughs already uses this method in the AIDS Interfaith outreach program called Haven's Youth Peer Education (HYPE), which provides outreach services in the form of seminars, a teen hotline, job placement, and distribution of condoms and AIDS information on the streets. Bey wants to provide simultaneous education and employment by creating a peer counseling program with monetary compensation. She echoes Jones' confidence in the effectiveness of training teenagers to teach each other. "Youth listen to youth most, and you have to deal with the fact that a lot of these kids are poor and can't give up their time for free," she says. Bethany agrees that kids listen to their friends even though the information is too often laced with error. "All kids know is what they hear," Bethany says. "They don't know the truth." Bey hopes to mold teenagers not only into peer counselors, but also into their own best supporters within the community at large. "I want to train them to be informed advocates so they can turn around, go to the Board of Education, and advocate AIDS education." 

To fill the place of the schools and SBHCs for kids on the street, Spinner proposes the creation of a drop-in center. "We need a way of addressing the basic human needs for homeless kids. We need to establish trust," she says. Spinner's words outline an environment where out-of-school teens could receive attention, mental and physical health care, and nurturing from trustworthy individuals. 

Although the first step in the HYPE program is attempting to persuade kids to return to school, Burroughs believes that those who refuse must be offered other options. "The kids have to know that there are places to go," he says. 

Bey agrees that one answer to the problem is making activities both available and appealing to teens. She points to the success of such programs as Midnight Basketball and Youth Nights at various community centers in New Haven. 

Though Bey represents AIDS Project-New Haven, she realizes the stigma attached to her organization's title. "These kids don't want to show up anywhere involved with AIDS. They don't want their friends thinking they're infected." According to Bey, teenage drop-outs aren't searching for a teen group meeting at an agency such as hers. Like Burroughs, she thinks they are looking for a place where it is clear that someone cares. 

Jones, Bey, Burroughs, and Spinner are all looking to provide this place. The difference is that Jones has the luxury of working with a clinic for dispensing information and a captive audience surrounding her clinic. For Jones, the SBHC provides a stepping off point by forming an immediate connection between herself and the students. Before even reaching the point at which Jones' work begins, Bey, Burroughs, and Spinner must overcome the challenge of reaching their target group. Not only must they find a drop-out, they must be able to grab his or her attention and hold it long enough to make a difference. Once they do this, the process of changing that teenager's attitude and behavior can begin. 

These modern-day street fighters are looking for more than permission to distribute condoms. They are struggling to establish ways in which kids will allow them to care.


China Trading Co. 
Since 1937 FAR, EAST ASIAN GIFTS AND GROCERIES 
Mooncakes Available 
Weekly Specials 
271 CROWN ST. 
NEW HAVEN 
865-9465 
Monday-Saturday 9am-6pm 
Thanks! 
from 
THE NEW JOURNAL


Reinecke Rare Book and 
Manuscript Library 
Alec Bemis 
Madeleine Findley 
Lilian Gien 
Carra Hood 
joseph jacobson 
Sandra Jacobson 
Andy Katzman 
Caroline Kim 
Younghe Kim 
Max Laurans 
Jonathan Weinberg



**Title: Sega**
**Author: Dan Murphy**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"real hockey," when 
there may be more kids 
learning and playing the 
sport with joysticks than with 
hockey sticks? Most Yalies will 
never live anything as violent as 
Strut Fighter, and they may be led to 
believe that in real life most street fights 
involve beautiful Asian women and Sumo 
wrestlers. 

If an everyday fan should enjoy a moment of 
glory dreaming of athletic feats, it lasts only until he 
awakes to his real life, where not every day is an adventure, and he 
isn't a professional athlete. When daily life isn't a sport, a fight, or a 
crusade, the vicarious life within the glowing box can sometimes be 
more enjoyable. Observing his snooze, you can only see an inactive 
couch potato, and you never meet the athlete dwelling within. Sega 
brings out everyone's competitive fire. 

On my hallway, we all fell into this Sega world to different 
degrees. Aaron seemed at times to have difficulty distinguishing his 
own identity from Chun-li's as evidenced by statements such as, 
"Did you see how I kicked Bal-rog!" or "Honda killed me." For my 
part, I've never managed to throw my entire spirit into the game. I 
always enjoy playing, but every now and then I'm struck by the 
absurdity of our video game obsession. Having always played 
sports, I never got over my guilt at playing a game of Sega on a 
sunny afternoon. 

On the first night of finals week last semester there were nine 
people in my common room booing and cheering at the raging 
battle onscreen. Sitting at my desk two rooms away, I grasped the 
tattered baseball I had borrowed that afternoon. Two hundred years 
ago, before the birth of "the National Pastime," this ball would 
have been considered a meaningless lump of twine, cork, and 
leather. The game gave the baJ.lsignif«:ance. 

How could something as simple as a ball ever hope to compete 
SEPTEMBER 8, 1995 · 
Sega has become one of Yale's most 
popular pastimes, a video-game 
subculture, transforming otherwise 
peaceful common rooms into something 
out of Lord of the Flies. 
with the electronic complexities of Sega? The video game offers a 
new kind of sport, one with vicarious glory neatly confine·d to a 
television screen. Sports become sterile and clean, indoors and year-
round, requiring no uniforms, equipment, or stretching. And all 
the issues of real life become clear-cut, with the computer acting as 
an electronic arbiter deciding who deserves a penalty and who wins 
the fight. 

Staring at the raised red stitches of the baseball, my thoughts 
were drowned out by yells concerning the fate of Chun-Li. No 
matter how high the Chinny Chi-Ching takes Chun-Li, I don't 
think she'll ever replace the sports of real life. Video games will 
always be fun, but there will never be anything quite like the act of 
throwing a baseball. 

IIIJ 
Dan Murphy, a sophomort in Timothy Dwight Colkgt, is on tht staff 
ojTNJ. 




I don't want to 
work for The New 
Journal! I have better 
things to do with my 
time than work for a 
magazine that has 
received every major 
writing prize at Yale 
as well as the Rolling 
Stone College 
Journalism Award. 
Besides, you and I· both 
know that The New 
Journal is just a training 
ground for media types 
like TNJ founder, and 
Pulitzer Prize winner, 
Daniel Yergin or P?~St 
TNJ staffer, and editor 
of th~ Chicago 
Tribune, Jack Fuller. 
And you think just 
because The New 
Journal is the oldest 
magazine at Yale and 
also has the largest 
circulation, 1 'm 
supposed to be 
impressed? Give me 
some credit. So, I beg 
of you, go ask someone 
who cares. 

Well, while we won't be seeing him at any TNJ meetings, we would 
love to see you! The New Journal is looking for innovative writers, DTP demigods, 
cutting-edge designers, dynamic photographers, artistes extraordinaires, business 
tycoons, and interested, interesting Yalies in general. If one of the above applies to 
you, come to one of our two snappy organizational meetings or call us. 

TNJ Organizational Meetings 
Tuesday, September 12 7:00 p.m. 
Wednesday, September 13 8:00 p.m. 
WLH 113 
Or call 'The New Journal office at 2-1957 or Suzanne at 776-4 752. 

~
I.

