Publication date: November 9, 1969
Volume: three
Issue number: four

**MASTHEAD:**
- Editors: Herman Hong, Paul Goldberger
- Business Manager: Steve Thomas
- Art Director: Nicki Kalish
- Chief Photographer: Peter M. C. Choy
- Advertising Manager: Robert Kirkman
- Copy Editors: Richard Caples, Stuart Klawans, Craig Slutzker
- Assistant Editors: George Kannar, Charles Draper, Jeffrey Pollock, Edward Landler
- Circulation Managers: John Callaway, Tom Davidson
- Contributing Editors: Susan Braudy, David Freeman, Mopsy Strange Kennedy, Lawrence Lasker, Jonathan Lear, Michael Lerner, Leo Ribuffo, Walter Wagoner
- Staff: Richard Conniff, Jack Friedman, Joanne Lawless, William Palmer, Manuel Perez, James Rosenzweig, Barbara Rich


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- Are our schools really preparing us? - by George Richmond
- Yale Graffiti - by Mike Deasy
- Seymour Melman: fighting the establishment on its own terms - by George Kannar


**Title: Comment: Bringing us together, keeping us apart, saying farewell to the end of an era ... and some greetings from fair old Harvard.**
**Author: (Unattributed)**
**Page number(s): 2**

Designs in the sky
Chris Argyris was playing the devil's advocate. The skywriting of a large peace sign over the Boston Common on Moratorium Day, said the professor of administrative sciences, actually served to polarize those who saw it, not to unite them. 

Marvin Torffield, a Yale artist now about to embark on an experiment with skywriting as an art form, saw it otherwise. "We are too isolated, too separated in the urban environment," he said. "We don't have enough collective experiences." 

Torffield's idea is to make large skywriting designs over urban areas, thus aiding residents in establishing the sense of community their cities so lack. He presented his plans at a seminar for invited guests from the Yale community one evening last week. The scene was the Art and Architecture Building conference room, so it looked like it was going to be pretty formal. But Torffield and Argyris clashed anyway. 

"It's not unfair for a citizen to ask, 'What do you want to do with my sky and my community?' " said Argyris. "Is that sort of Woodstock closeness that you're trying to establish here necessarily good over a long period of time?" 

"The individual isn't strong enough to face all that is fighting him in his environment and still attain a closeness," retorted Torffield. 

But whether making designs in the sky was the right way to start bringing people together was never quite established, and most of those present remained skeptical. 

"Are you looking for how to get a welfare mother in New Haven to feel a common bond with a welfare administrator?" one guest asked Torffield. "Well, the way sure as hell isn't skywriting." 

Wayne Mansfield, the skywriting pilot who created the peace sign over the Boston Common and inscribed a similar one over the Woodstock Music Festival last summer, was also present, and gave a down-to-earth explanation of skywriting. 

"I felt pretty good about making those peace signs, and having 100,000 people below all looking up together because of me," he said. Mansfield explained that the line of smoke that forms skywriting letters is three hundred feet in diameter, and the average letter is about three-quarters of a mile long. Many designs run as long as fifteen miles through the sky. Torffield likes that large size. One of his planned projects is an outline of thirteen-mile long Manhattan Island, which he plans to have written in New Jersey and float gently across the Hudson River to come into place right above Manhattan. 

Many of those attending Torffield's presentation were not antagonistic toward skywriting itself-they just felt it was irrelevant to the real problem of bringing unity to a community. "To inject skywriting into the problems of the world is like playing court jester," said one student on his way out. 

Torffield hopes to counteract skywriting's image as an advertising device by creating shapes and forms, rather than words, in the sky. But here too, he ran up against opposition. Someone suggested a butterfly: "That would surely bring us closer." 

"No," someone else said. "It would make us think that someone was selling butterflies."


**Title: New Haven's finest**
**Page number(s): 2-3**

It was not that we sought to withdraw into that privileged sanctuary of Yale when we moved fifteen feet down College Street and onto Yale property after the police had told us to move. We were removing ourselves to a place where we thought we had a right to be. 

The four of us had been talking on College Street about community control of education, of commercial facilities, and of the police when the New Haven police arrived. 

"Get moving there or we'll put you under arrest!" 

Since our discussion had just gotten us to that precise point where the viability of the American Constitution was questioned, I responded, choosing for the sake of discussion to defend the system. 

"Why? We live right here," pointing to the Old Campus. Three of us indeed did live on the Old Campus, and we were having a conversation on what was virtually our front stoop. So that when one officer repeated, "Look, you punks, you're on a public sidewalk and when we tell you to move, you move," we thought it quite reasonable to step off the sidewalk and onto the Yale campus. I pointed out to the gentlemen that we were no longer on the public sidewalk. 

By this time, the two policemen had left their squad car; three of us had paused farther down the street while one, more radical than the rest of us, was still walking down the sidewalk shouting back to us, "Okay, stick up for your constitutional rights and see where they'll get you." 

Another one of us walked over to the police and explained that we were Yale students simply holding a discussion and that we lived on the Old Campus. We're clearing the Green tonight, they answered, and Yale students are no exception. 

"But we're not on the Green." 

"Are those your steps?" asked the cop pointing to old, unused steps at Welsh Hall. 

"Well, no, not exactly." 

"Then you're loitering. Do you want me to spell it? L-0-I-T-E-R-I-N-G." He flicked on the radio and began speaking to headquarters. Both policemen approached and asked us to step down onto the sidewalk. We were under arrest. Unwilling to be arrested, I politely declined and suggested they talk to the campus police. 

"We don't need any campus police. If you don't come down, we'll drag you down." 

"Do you have a warrant?" 

But the police wagon had already continued on page 15


**Title: Kerouac**
**Author: Bryan Di Salvatore**
**Page number(s): 3**

Quite Lowell, Mass., Friday morning, clear cold, clean, workaday Lowell with deserted textile mill, biggest, emptiest building in the world behind St. Jean Baptiste ("He went about doing good") Catholic church, grey on the outside but saintly cavernous on the inside, marble cupola alter, saint glass windows-half the wealth of dying Lowell exhibited at Jack Kerouac's original and final church. 

Groups of two and three pea-coated college gurus and would-be saints leaning and sitting across the street at a boarded-up drug store before entering the church, thinking Lowell and not understanding at all ... "This town, it meant so much to him .... " 

Where was Dr. Sax, chthonic saint of Kerouac's beautiful childhood, whose shadowy Basil Rathbone essence lurked and haunted him on Fall nights? Fall nights. October. Kerouac's favorite month. Month of long cold walks from Maggie Cassidy's house, walks of sweet-sick adolescent love ... French Canadian high school innocence and wondering ... 

October nights later in misty Southern Pacific freight train yards ... October nights of Wolfean Manhattan discovery walks ... October nights of warm Florida loneliness, drunkenness and death. 

WHDH News crew, Channel Five Boston, stationed in front of the church, their cameras recording the more colorful attenders of the Beatnik writer's funeral. But they have to scramble; the crowd is somber and dull. Relatives, readers, neighbors, and poets Corso, Orlovsky, Ferlinghetti. And Ginsberg a pall bearer with boyhood friends of Kerouac's. 

The casket is rolled to the front of the aisle and solemn Requiem Mass begins with the uncertain, unrosaried congregation standing and sitting only on direction of the priest who reads from Revelations: "Write the things which thou hast seen and the things which are, and the things that shall be hereafter." Then he tells how Kerouac had come to them in his youth for advice, encouragement and comfort, then left Lowell to chronicle himself for others, living among "the mad ones, mad to talk, mad to live, desirous of everything at the same time," and finally returning to share the visions of Gerard, his nine-year-old brother who died when Kerouac was four. 

Kerouac spoke of other visions in his books ("All I write about is Jesus"); shrouded desert figures always following. To him a reminder of some lost bliss of the womb, never experienced again till death. He told Neal Cassady about this and "because we're all of us never in life again, he rightly, would have nothing to do with it, and I (Kerouac) agreed with him then." 

But later he envisioned death as eternal peace and freedom
... I wish I was free
Of that slaving meat wheel
And safe in heaven dead.

And now he was. Followed out to the hearse by the hundred and fifty who hadn't half-filled the church. Somebody dropped a toothbrush in the aisle, Gregory Corso was taking movies on the church steps, and Peter Orlovsky waved at some acquaintances while police untangled traffic for the procession to graveside.


**Title: Are our schools really preparing us?**
**Author: George Richmond**

Our schools are more than bad; they are incompatible with the very structure of our society.

The right to self-determination is denied to three groups in this country: convicts, the insane and students. Membership in any one of these groups carries with it a suspension of legal and property rights, and a precedent of subservience contrary to the intentions of the Constitution. While the curtailment of the legal and property rights of convicts and the insane is dangerous to all who seek the protection of the Bill of Rights, the abatement of law, of justice and of ownership as applied to the student population poses an even more serious threat. 

Our youth are the inheritors of both our wealth and our democratic traditions. Neither will remain safe if we continue to school our young through a system that so totally ignores both their legal and their property rights. 

From our educational system, it would seem as though our children were being prepared for a propertyless state, whose laws are legislated and administered by a despot. Selected from among a group of card-carrying civil servants, the despot-the teacher-is a vestige of the form of colonialism that characterized the first half of the twentieth century. He is the inheritor of the "white man's burden" and he is equally unwilling to allow the natives to govern. That public schools offer no practical, experiential education in governance and in the economic or legal enterprise that is so vital to the "American system" is remarkable in a society so imbued with the ideology of capitalism and democracy as is the United States. 

George Richmond '66, Director of the Transitional Year Program at Yale, has devised an entire curriculum based on the use of play money and game theory for use in urban schools. An experiment with his system during this past summer was the subject of a major article in New York magazine last September. Besides being an educator, Mr. Richmond is also an accomplished artist. 

The reality of the school is at variance with the ideology expressed in our traditions and vocalized as the "national interest." Few ownership experiences are available to children via the school. All the resources of the classroom-the desks, the chairs, the blackboards, the paper, the books and other school materials-are the property of the state. Teachers preach an ethos of sharing, of equal opportunity, and of an equal division of wealth that is surprisingly unfaithful to reality. If a child brings a sweet to school, he is under strong pressure to distribute a portion of his treasure to his peers. Student sale of goods and services within the school building is discouraged where it is not met with strict prohibition. Only the teacher can sell cookies, but even here the profits go to the state. 

These are hardly the principles that form the underpinnings of a capitalist state. 

Even the dominant economic institutions of our society are absent in our schools. Which of us has ever encountered a marketplace in a school? Yet the marketplace is central to the efficient functioning of our economy. Similarly, the absence of a marketplace in our schools implies an absence of tutoring in the behavior of markets, and, in fact, this is the case. Most of the students who graduate from public school systems are frozen out of the economy both in terms of what they have to offer to the labor market, and in terms of their understanding of the market economy. 

There are two ways for poor children to acquire property. The quickest way is to steal it, and this manner of acquisition is widely practiced, in various forms: extortion, confidence games, pickpocketing, etc. One student from a New York high school reported that the football team in his school made a regular practice of collecting loot from the gymnasium lockers since they had access to the lock combinations. When students uncovered the thieves, the football team threatened the discoverers with physical harm if they exposed the thefts. 

The second way to acquire property is to barter one item for another or to sell goods for currency. In a sense, the teacher demonstrates a barter economy as he trades grades and privileges for cooperation and other forms of reciprocation. The exchange of an item for currency, however, is infrequent, since students, by and large, have only indirect access to legitimate sources of funds. One exception to the otherwise primitive economic activity in the schools is the recent development of a drug market within the urban high school. Within this market sellers, buyers and middlemen are easily distinguished while profits are reaped at every level of the distribution ladder. The medium of exchange is U.S. currency.



**Title: Do Our Schools, Then, Intentionally Foster an Economic System Contrary to the Expressed Ideology of the Society for Which it is Preparing its Students?**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Do our schools, then, intentionally 
foster an economic system contrary to the 
expressed ideology of the society for 
which it is preparing its students? It would 
seem so, although the paradox is not 
as acute as it would seem at first glance. 
There are clear reasons for the refusal 
to practice the system that is preached. 
Commercial barons have not been 
traditionally concerned with the creation 
of other commercial barons. They are 
interested in instructing their future labor 
force in areas and habits which will 
increase individual productivity and sus-
tain the factory owner as a wealth owner. 
Moreover, to suggest that large num.bers of 
the economically disenfranchised should 
be informed in the subtleties of market-
place behavior is to make the mistake 
of taking capitalism at its word. Tutoring 
the common man in rudimentary financial 
practices would turn the exploited into 
the exploiters while simultaneously 
equipping poor people with the 
knowledge they need to calculate the 
liabilities of the market system they enter. 
The absence of practical education in 
economics is contrary to the basic premises 
of a capitalist society within a democratic 
setting. We are producing high-school 
graduates who have had no systematic 
instruction in the rationale of the world in 
which they live. They fail to understand 
the market economy; they are unable 
to conceive of the abstract idea of invest-
ment, the power of money to earn money. 
Public schools fail to prepare stu-
dents to earn income or to preserve the 
wealth they do manage to obtain. What 
economic experience is available is 
generated from the ruthless environment 
of the street with its thieves, hustlers and 
prostitutes and from its drug merchants 
who cruise school corridors. If student 
experience in economics is limited to 
illicit activities, then the school's structure 
reinforces the extra-legal behavior and 
systematically destroys his respect for law. 
The administrative hierarchy of a school 
has much in common with government, 
but many of its judicial practices seem 
designed to warp the student experience 
with law and with governance. The legal 
system of the school appears to be at odds 
with the avowed purpose of socializing 
the student so he can function in a 
democratic society. What public school 
student has been guaranteed due process 
when a member of the official hierarchy 
has lodged a complaint against him? 
Does the student stand trial before a ran-
domly selected group of peers, or 
before a group whose membership in the 
ruling elite convinces itself that leniency 
on any one count precedes the total break-
down of the school's social order? In 
which schools are students, who must 
defend themselves against the charges of 
illegal behavior, actually confronted 
by their accusors? Can anyone remember 
an occasion when a student has been 
permitted to ask witnesses to appear in his 
defense? Do we even allow student 
defendants an understanding of their 
rights and privileges before the law? 
Few if· any measures are taken to insure 
the fairness of officials who judge student 
offenders. Processes unthinkable in even 
the most conservative courtrooms are 
standard procedure in the most liberal 
schools. And if we turn the coin over, and 
imagine the administrators of the school 
legal system subject to the identical process 
applied to students, we immediately see 
that school-law is a one-way street. 
Teachers are above the legal system, and 
it is nearly impossible for a student to 
even lodge charges against a member of 
the faculty. There are no precedents 
for fair hearings of disputes between 
student and teacher when the action is 
brought by the student; law is synonomous 
with the "establishment" in the school. 


The impartial administration of 
justice is fundamental to the ideology 
of democracy, but our school systems 
fail to employ acceptable standards of 
justice within their spheres of influence, 
and neglect to follow by example what 
they preach. The absence of impartial 
panels leads to a system of presumed 
student guilt in all conflicts between stu-
dents and teachers. One of the most 
disturbing aspects of school judicial 
process is the utter absence of the right of 
the accused to a trial. He is often judged 
secretly, and notations are added indis-
criminately to his permanent file. Even the 
common criminal has better protection 
under democratic law than children do in 
their schools. 

As it happens, circumstantial evidence 
is sufficient for conviction of an alleged 
offender, and students are frequently tried 
for their associations with the "bad crowd" 
rather than for particular offenses. 
The permanent file which records the 
transgressions of students against duly 
constituted authority, is identical in 
purpose with the state's usage of the 
criminal record; both records follow the 
offender as written history throughout 
his association with societal institutions. 
The permanent file eventually becomes 
the possession of the school guidance 
counselor who uses the information there-
in to write an otherwise anonymous 
recommendation to the college the student 
hopes to attend. It follows that the student 
who allows himself to be embroiled in 
controversies or protests against the indig-
nities of his educational environment 
stands a poor chance of entering a highly 
selective college. 

If the school's limitations on student 
communication and mobility are combined 
with the added restrictions on his legal 
rights and the irrelevance of the curricu-
lum and educational structure to his 
ultimate professional and economic goals, 
we begin to recognize a form of govern-
ment consistent not with democracy 
but with corporatist and oligarchic ideol-
ogies. The Constitution says that the 
citizen has the "right to be free of searches 
and seizures," yet searches and seizures 
of personal property are a common 
occurrence in the school. The denials of 
student rights extend to other articles 
of the U.S. Constitution. Press censor· 
ship, prohibitions against assembly, the 
regulation of speech, denial of right to 
petition for redress of grievances are 
commonplace in our schools and are 
becoming more and more frequent as the 
student protest movement filters down 
to the public school level. The principles 
in the Constitution granting and limiting 
power, which are designed to prevent the 
depositing of unlimited aut!,lority in the 
hands of the government, are absent in 
the process we call education. 

It is remarkable that the agent for the 
perpetuation of the hallowed traditions 
and institutions of the United States 
should itself so lack these qualities. 
The components of our system of 
educational coercion are derived from 
state compulsory education laws. In 
saying this, I do not mean, of course, to 
suggest that the system of coercion can be 
overhauled by the simple abrogation of 
a handful of statutes. But still, compulsory 
education laws have done much to turn 
our schools into custodial institutions, and 
have added to the confusion of purpose 
which diminishes the viability of the 
educational offerings. Schools have been 
asked to perform the dual role of 
stimulator of the educational demand 
and supplier of educational services, 
which is unfortunate because ideally the 
students themselves should stimulate the 
demand. This is not a healthy relationship, 
since it leaves the institutions unaccount-
able to anyone but themselves, and permits 
their student populations to be captive 
markets with no influence over the supply 
of goods offered to them.


What is the significance of this type of 
school system? When students do not 
know why they are in school, and are not 
consulted about their own goals, they 
see no purpose in the curriculum offerings, 
and their presence becomes counterpro-
ductive to the attempted learning activities. 
Instead of concentrating on irrelevant and 
often boring academic work, those who 
reject course offerings create for them-
selves a political and social life inside 
the classroom that is far more interesting 
than the fare forced on them for 
consumption. The dynamics of this 
"extra-curricular" life can be described as 
war between the social factions within 
the school, or, stated in a more rhetorical 
way, as a miniature class struggle. 

This class struggle becomes the real 
curriculum of the school. It pits five groups 
against one another: the administration, 
the faculty, and three student factions-
the "monitors," or students who cooperate 
with the existing system and perform the 
tasks it requires; the "mafiosini," or 
students who refuse to cooperate with the 
totalitarian classroom state and become 
discipline problems instead; and the 
passive students, who are caught between 
the approved hierarchy of the monitors 
and the underworld of the mafiosini. The 
passive student does not rebel against 
the school; he accepts it, but he must live 
out his days dealing with both extreme 
power groups if he is to survive. 

The struggle between these groups is 
the result of many social forces outside 
the school, of course, as well as the actu-
al system within the classroom. But it is 
highly certain that the struggle would take 
a markedly different form were our 
school systems not dictatorial institutions 
of coercion. 

Coercion in urban schools begins with 
the requirement of compulsory atten-
dance, which is a curious inversion of the 
historical intent of state legislation on the 
subject. This legislation, which enabled 
every citizen to be educated at state 
expense, was considered the great 
equalizer in its time, since it prevented 
parents from sending their children into 
factories instead of to school. But times 
have changed, and what was progressive 
in Horace Mann's era may have become 
oppressive in our own. Student confine-
ment has forced schools to develop 
programs to satisfy those who wish to 
involve themselves in activities outside 
the academic program. The academic 
curricuJum of the school is a compromise 
incorporating the wishes of those who 
are content with those who are alienated. 
In the process of pleasing such divergent 
interests it debases the integrity of its 
programs by planning for the median 
student and sacrificing both the bright and 
the dull to its standardized fare. 

Forced attendance implies, furthermore, 
that the student would not be willing to 
seek out an education, and from this 
implication are derived others which are 
fundamental elements of a despotic, 
custodial regime. As this regime matures, 
it is only natural that it begins to prescribe 
in detail, minute regulations for the effi-
cient running of its society. In turn, these 
regulations must be enforced, implying 
the need for a penal code associating 
offenses with penalties. 

This sedimentary process, years of 
creating and amending legal and penal 
codes, consumes the major energies 
of personnel within the school. The "class 
war" becomes the hidden curriculum 
that teachers unwillingly teach, and that 
students willingly learn. 

Nothing instructs so effectively or as 
systematically as the structure of the 
school. The medium is the message; 
curriculum developers who insist on 
devoting effort to improve lesson plans 
and to apply instructional technology 
face ceaseless frustration, for what they 
are tinkering with is only peripheral to 
the problem. Changing the academic 
curriculum misses the point, for the 
primary deficiency of our schools is in 
structure, not in content. It is the 
structure, the structure so inconsistent 
with the stated goals of democracy, that 
creates the "class war" which students 
so eagerly engage in at the expense of 
learning. And who can blame them? Even 
the most extraordinary innovations in 
curriculum content are weak in contrast 
to the dynamics of a structural process. 
It is so much more exciting to play 
the power game in school than to read 
the books. 

But if the cancer of public education is 
located within the medium itself, then 
change is possible-insofar as educators 
can replace the present custodial structure 
with one that will instruct our children 
in the real economic, political and social 
spheres. In short, schools must be 
reflections of the present, rather than the 
remnants of a feudal era.~


**Title: PATHOLOGICAL EXHIBITIONISM**
**Author:  [Author not specified]**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"
.. 
\ 
,. .. 
> ... 
71 The New Journal I November 9, 1969 
This is an anthology of Yale writing 
first and a compendium of libelous 
claims and offensive pornography 
second. Time did not allow the author 
to pore over the hundreds of desk tops 
in Yale classrooms where a virtually 
untapped resource for future graffiti 
research is to be found. In all cases the 
original diction, grammar, and punctua-
tion has been preserved. The author's 
gratitude extends to the anonymous 
and unsung creative spirits at Yale 
whose tireless efforts in restrooms 
have made this article possible. 
Unlike ambiguity there are eight 
types of graffiti: Doggerel, punning, 
dialectic mimesis, caricature, parody, 
directives, memorials and obscenity. 
This last is unfortunately the most 
familiar type. In Cannibals and Chris-
tians, however, Norman Mailer ob-
serves that "some of the best prose in 
America is graffiti found on men's 
room walls." While Mailer would 
not have slighted women's rooms had 
he visited Yale's School of Art and 
Architecture, he is shrewd to point out 
that with the rise of the educated and 
professional-and thus repressed-
classes, more sophisticated and sub-
limated forms of graffiti have sprung 
up in San Francisco pubs, Manhattan 
office buildings and at colleges across 
the country. 

The Yale community, for example, 
can luxuriate in such doggerel as this 
found in the Freshman Buttery: 
In the Fuzz 
Once I was 
Now lam 
But are you fit 
To be full of shit 
Forever seek the proper hole 
or resign yourself a mole 
It will seep 
If you beep 
Porforapeep 
'Quizonimpeep 
While you sleep 
And as you keep 
As one of the sheep 
Rememberopeep 
The past tense of rape 
Is .... reep 
Or in this dialectic mimicry from the 
Art and Architecture Building: 
A Amelia Earhardt is alive and well 
selling girdles in Macy's basement. 
B That's strange, you don't look 
Jewish 
C I don't smoke 
D Neither does Judge Crater look 
Argentinian. 
Or such directives as "Pray for Piece" 
and " Fantasy must be fulfilled." One 
could say that graffiti writing itself is 
fantasy-fulfilling. 
Mike Deasy, an M.A. candidate in City 
Planning, is president of the new 
Student Community Housing Corpora-
tion in New Haven. 

Freud in his Jokes and Their Relation 
to the Unconscious describes parody 
and travesty as that comic attempt to 
destroy "the unity that exists between 
people's character as we know them 
and their speeches and action, by re-
placing either the exalted figures or 
their utterances by inferior ones." Yale 
restrooms abound with this type of 
graffito. Once again the Art and A rchi-
tecture Building demonstrates this: 
Jesus was a haploid 
A What would Marshall Mcluhan write 
on this wall? 
B Nothing unless he was paid 
C Nothing, he can't write 
But the most devasting travesty of all: 
A Donald Duck is a lesbian 
B AQuack 

The array of Yale graffiti defies cate-
gorization. The form, content, quantity 
and level of perception vary with school 
and department. This would suggest 
that even graffiti are susceptible to 
sociological analysis even though hu-
manists undoubtedly would rebel at 
reducing man to his anonymous mural 
outbursts, and social scientists would 
quake to scrutinize the subjective and 
random evidence occasioned by ali-
mental evacuation. What scholar could 
submit the following to content 
analysis? 
whereat 
wear a hat 
chew the fat 
rat-tat-tat 
Dirty rat 
Have a Chat 
Brand New Hat 
Here I sat 
Dont Stand Pat 
Skin the Cat 
Go to Pratt 
MTARRARAT 
EMPTOR CAVEAT 

What zealots wash away, anthropolo-
gists should hold dear for the study of 
contemporary society. The humblest 
artifacts are often the most revealing, 
and the commonest graffito could re-
veal the deepest unconscious of an 
entire society. "The joke, it can be said, 
is the contribution made to the comic 
from the realm of the unconscious," 
writes Freud. If graffiti, like dreams, are 
really the condensed formats for 
societal wishes, then the freshman 
who wrote on the Durfee Buttery walls 
"God is alive and living in terror" could 
be said to have made a reflection upon 
the over-awed state of mind upon leav-
ing the fishbowl and entering the 
ocean. 

A. W. Read, a scholar from Columbia 
University, remarks that "a sociologist 
does not refuse to study certain crim-
inals on the ground that they are too 
dastardly; surely a student of language 
is even less warranted in refusing to 
consider certain four letter words be-
cause they are too 'nasty' or too 'dirty'." 
It is clear that graffiti warrant more 
study both as to their genesis and to 
their use as social indicators. 

A Why should the bathroom be such a 
vessel for repressed sexual feeling? 
B Queer you should bring that up. 

Indeed the response to this question is 
not accurate. Hopefully, graffiti demon-
strate more than what is queer, but 
rather the inner thoughts, unconscious 
wishes and repressed feelings of a 
broad spectrum of society. When a law 
student or professor writes in the Ster-
ling law Building basement, "Where 
can I find a good whorehouse?" he is 
expressing virtually the same sentiment 
as "Virginity is like a bubble" when 
written by the scientist in the Kline 
Chemistry men's room or the senti-
ment, "love me that I may fuck you 
with a pure heart" when w ritten in the 
Freshman Buttery. And yet the form 
varies from the logical, to the analogi-
cal, to the idealistically exhortatory of 
the undergraduate. No such sentiment 
has been written yet on the walls of the 
Hall of Graduate Studies. The form is 
consistent from school to school with 
other sentiment as well. Thus, one 
expects the walls of the law School 
johns to speak clearly but not always 
forthrightly: 
A Montana is a myth 
B law is a myth 
C Yale is a myth 
D (Invocation and application) 
E Sowhat? 
F (Appraisal) 
G Smart ass law student 
H Nothing is absolute 
A Good night, David. 
B Good night, Goliath 
A Une pierre qui roule n'amasse pas 
de mousse. 
B A perambulating lithoidal accrues no 
lichen. 

Undergraduate writing, on the other 
hand, is expected to be pretentious, ex-
tended, self-conscious and often politi-
cal. Once again, the Freshman Buttery's 
1968 edition provides a clue to under-
graduate effort: 
A I'm in love with a girl but I don't 
know she exists. 
B How do you know you don't know? 
C How do you know you know you 
don't know? 
D Because, douchebag. 
E Self referential problem. (cf Russell's 
Theory of) 
A Gametes of the world unite! 
B Good people of the earth, leave Yale. 
It is 2 AM-I'm starving and the god-
dam door is locked 

This graffitii is definitely inferior to the 
1971 edition. In fad it sucks. 
last year the fifth floor of the eastern-
most Durfee entryway generated what


--- Page 8 ---

81 The New Journal I November 9, 1969 
most certainly is the distillate of fresh-
man mural writing. Hanging conven-
iently near the toilet to prevent 
plagiarism was the pamphlet-sized 
anthology Graffiti written by Robert 
Reisner in 1967. It served to insure a 
healthy originiality and continuous 
dialogue that recognized itself as par-
ticipating in an art form: 
A Mozart is alive and in Haydn. 
B Can you Bach that up with a Lizst of 
facts? 
C What a Barbarous question. 
D lves shown that the Rameaufications 
are endless so that I couldn't begin 
to Janecek it out; be Cagey, or you'll 
never un-Ravel it. 
Please remain seated while bowels in 
motion. 
Help take symbolism out of sex-it's 
a rchetypal 
Writing graffiti standing up is cheating 
Deeds speak louder than graffiti 
A Sex is not a cure for loneliness. 
B Profound, that 
Malthus is a spoil sport. 
A Psychiatry transcends Marxism 
B Theology transcends God. Oh yeah, 
God. 
C Ontogeny recapitulates phylogeny. 
Yeah, theology 
Get ahead-that's where it's at. 
Cog ito ergo sin. 
Marxism is the opiate of the intel-
lectuals. 
Go blastulate 
Jiggedly, jingle, jaunty, j01unty Joyce 
Grind groovy at your local group grope 
Think how lucky the lndi01ns would 
hilve been if Columbus had filllen over 
the edge. 

Yet another center for undergraduate 
writing (not to exclude the faculty 
fellowship) has been the men's room off 
the Berkeley College common room. 
The 1968-1969 edition was entitled 
'The Existential Reader': 
A You can't trick our Dick! 
B (A common penis?) 
C No, our president 
You feel such 01 luk of inter01ction and 
communic01tion with your fellow man 
that you resort to writing on these walls. 
A Purge the walls, we need a new 
generation of graffiti 
B Then it seems we are in a generation 
gap 
C At least 9 months 
You write on walls? Do you shit in your 
notebooks? 
A Th01nk god for mixers, when all those 
girls get frustrated they let it out on 
our walls 
B I wish it were on our balls 
Gr01ffiti: ink washed by the seas of time 
(and by the janitor) 
Dear janitor: you clean the walls OK, 
try the floors sometime 
A Classicism: 
Fuck you 
B Romanticism: Fuck me 
C Realism: 
Masturbation 

Although one contributor to the above 
Berkeley edition protests graffiti as an 
unsocial act, Freud insists over and over 
again that jokes....:and graffiti a re a 
species of jokes-are "the most social 
of all mental functions that aim at a 
yield of pleasure." One of the most 
notorious examples of graffiti communi-
cations has accumulated in Hendrie 
Hall. Despite numerous attempts at 
whitewashing, good specimens can 
still be seen. 
A I'd walk a mile for a camel 
B Think how far you'd walk for a 
woman! 
C Oh, I don't know-after all, a umel 
does have a bigger hump. 
D Hell, I'd walk a mile for a hump 
E Ever try fucking a camel after walk· 
inga mile? 
F Ever try walking a mile after fucking 
a camel? 
G What happened to the woman? 
Support A,E,I,O,U 
Start a vowel movement 
A Boy, Candy was a shitty movie. 
B Yeah, Candy was a box orifice 
smuhl 
Fuck, why be so subtle 

The lack of graffiti may be as telling 
as their presence. The Kline Biology 
Tower restrooms, the women's rooms 
of the residential college dining halls; 
Dwight Hall; the bathrooms of the 
academic departments except political 
science, English, history, and Slavic 
languages; and most bathrooms in the 
residential colleges-all lack graffiti and 
betray the character of their users. 
(Curiously, Philip Johnson designed 
excellent walls to induce graffiti writ-
ing in the Biology Tower: The restrooms 
are completely paved with white tile, 
yet the pristine sterility is respected.) 

What is w ritten in the Graduate 
School tends to be written in quite 
small and orderly letters. A whole graf-
fito in good compositional form can 
often be found lurking in an inch-square 
tile in HGS. The graffiti of scholars are 
well endowed with literary and phil-
osophical references, such as the Eng-
lish Department's "The thing-in-itself 
is alive and well in Konigsberg." Al-
though empirical research would show 
that the thing-in-itself no longer takes 
strolls in Konigsberg, fiction writing 
is allowed by English critics in the bath-
room where they are free from the con-
straints of facticity. Fiction is alive in the 
English Department. In other depart-
ments, graffiti writing ranges from the 
political to the Freudian travesty: 
USSR = SS 
Dubcek in 1968 


--- Page 9 ---

• 
9 1 The New Journal I November 9, 1969 
A Linguistics is the mother of all 
sciences. 
B or, the science of your mother 
A texan's fart- A big, noisy blast of hot 
air that smells bad and never goes back 
where it came from. 
Quoted from the Anchorage Inter· 
national Airport 
Agamemnon + Cassandra fuck 
A Is life really meaningless? 
B No, God love you 
C Yes 
''The crowd is the untruth"-Kierkegaard 

Sterling library would be expected to 
hold the most literate and urbane graf-
fiti, and that expectation is often met: 
Wes Parker is a Communist. 
A Wuhington Irving lives 
B On whose tax money? 
Toads ue fattening 
A Grieveth not 
You can't take it with you 
B I'm going to try 
A Martha Washington wore her hair 
in a bun 
B What a predicament 
Resurrect Necrophilia 
Where did all the wonderful graffiti go? 
Some people have no appreciation for 
contemporary art forms these days. 

Beyond any doubt the best graffiti at 
Yale can be found in the Art and Archi-
tecture Building. It is here that the 
limits of the form are tested, expanded 
and changed. Graffiti here cannot be 
said to only arouse titillation or disgust 
o r to fulfill unconscious desires. Graf-
fiti at the School of Art and Architecture 
realize the quest of the artist to fill the 
mural void. Certain technical develop-
ments over the last decade have made 
graffiti as an art form possible: Clear, 
light-colored tile that has taken the 
place of d ark marble-walled stalls; 
better bathrom lighting; but most 
especially the felt-tipped pen. Color, 
painterly effects, the variety of line 
and texture had not been possible be-
fore the felt tip. Much of the visual 
artistry of the A&A g raffiti cannot trans-
late into written words and should be 
viewed first hand: 
zip 
strip 
rip 
chip 
dip 
trip 
hip 
lip 
slip 
cunt 
bunt 
punt 
nip 
whip 
blip 
ship 
Humpty 
Humphrey 
Had 
A 
Great Fall 
So 
Humpty Humphrey 
Gets 
Screwed 
On this wall 
McCarthy felt called to be President 
His followers cheered his intent 
But Nixon was quicker and Bobby much 
slicker 
So instead of coming he went 
McCarthy's old car is corroded 
It's a wonder it hasn't exploded 
A You people who write and draw on 
these walls ought to be ashamed of 
yourselves. What would Paul 
Rudolfh think? 
B He thinks you can't spell, you 
schmuck! 
C He doesn't think. Do you think he 
put up these walls? 

There are, however, the disgruntled 
in any subculture who find art either 
unproductive or too critical: 
A This is the most insipid graffiti any-
where. It doesn't achieve any 
positives; it is not obscene or funny 
or clever or nihilistic or anarchistic 
or affirmative. It is ve ry dull graffiti. 
B Here, here 
C Neither do you 
D Since when is dullness a drag 
E It's not meant to be graffiti- it's 
fagritti 
F This is all pathological exhibitionism 
If protesting is alright 
Then solving is our duty. 

Some of the disgruntled in this case are 
those in power who have been waging 
a five year war against the defacing of 
Paul Rudolph's sculptured walls. A 
g raffito explains it best: "There has 
been an attempt to whitewash the 
facts. The system hides and trys to 
ignore what it does not like, FIGHT 
BACK." Some of the best editions of 
graffiti have been lost to posterity 
beneath the layers of whitewash. long 
before the controversies over financial 
equity and the City Planning Depart-
ment, there had been the controversy 
over the bathroom walls. The con-
troversy sprung its quiet furor over the 
very walls under protest: 
Blue Meanies strike again 
A Sic transit gloria mundi 
B Who's she? 
C Cousin of Myra Becken ridge 
A The walls belong to the people. 
B OK Let's start all over again, even 
tho 'twas ever thus! 
A The words shall be raised RAZED 
B Them words shall rise again 
C My eyes have seen the glory of the 
coming of the words 
D They have trampled down the vine-
yard where the grapes of wrath are 
stored 
cf John Steinbeck Ill 
A The paint on these walls merely ex· 
poses the superficiality of all 
institutions. 
B I think the old graffiti developed 
organically over the yeus was 
better. 

Much of the wall conversations 
naturally avert to architecture and its 
p ractice: 
A Architecture is? 
B Architecture may be frozen music 
But thank God music isn't melted 
architecture 
Kahn· or Kant 
Genghis Kahn 
Boredom Bunshaft 
Kevin Roach 
I. M. Pie 
Frank Lloyd Wrong 

Some of the dialogue is quite direct and 
sincere: 
A Gay? Meet me on the corner of . •. 
B What if I'm merely happy 
C Happy? Meet me anyway. I'll make 
you gay. 
B Why don't all three of us come? 
D How about a foursome for more fun? 
E Metool 
F Six for sex 
G Seven will be heaven 
H Raise you once and see you 
A I wrote the original and I think it 
would be grossly impractical for so 
large a meeting on a public thor-
oughfare so we will all meet in the 
sub-basement @ 8 :00 every night 
I Where the hell were you? 
A My apologie5-will be the re tonight 
henceforth 
J 
There has never been anybody in 
the sub-basement 
A ''The quality of mercy is not 
strained." 
B No, rather minced and served with 
sliced radishes. 
" I piss on you all; and from a consider· 
able height!" 
-Louis Ferdinand Celina 

Much of the dialogue reveals something 
of a literate background. Have archi-
tects w ritten these pieces or visitors to 
the building who receive inspiration 
from the bare concrete? Or are these 
pieces written by that singular soul 
known as the Fourth Floor Poet? 
A I know you all and will uphold 
The unyoked humor of your idleness. 
Yet herein will I imitate the sun 
Who doth permit the base contagious 
clouds 
To smother up his beauty from the 
earth. 
Tis not the lark but the nightingale 
that 
Pierceth the hollow of thine ear. 
B Tis not the lark but my mono-ocular 
trouser ferret that 
Pierceth the hollow of thine quim. 
C Quim, an old-fashioned word mean-
ing cunt 
D The bathroom bard blithe ly bathes 
in bullshit. 
.. . But man, proud man 



**l incoln (865-30 1 5)**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
l incoln (865-30 1 5) 
The fi lm the lady flipped for 
back by countless requests 
I Am Curious Yellow 
Crown (624-1400) 
The now generation 
More 
with Mimsy Farmer 
got one? . .. need more? 
that's what we're for ! 
gnomon copy service 
244 York St. 777-1429 


**Free! Workshop on political fihn and it's rule in the struggle for social changej film; discussion.**

Free! Workshop on political fihn and 
it's rule in the struggle for social 
changej film; discussion. Sunday at 3:00 
Hastings Hall in the A & A building 
Nov. 9: 
Nov. 16: 
Nov. 23: 
Brazil's Cinema Novo 
Eastern European Film 
Cuban Film 
Regular program 
75cj 101 Linsley Chit 
Nov. 10: 
Nov.17: 
J ancso's The Red and The White (7 and 9) 
Viva Zapata with Marlon Brando (6:45 and 9) 


**gourmet food for Poor Lads and Lasses**

gourmet food for 
Poor Lads and Lasses 
. . . cocktails too 
and now dancing every Thursday, 
Friday, and Saturday in the new, 
elegant Rich Lads Lounge 
204 Crown St., New Haven 
Telephone 562-4334 
Free Parking 


**Untitled Poem**

Drest in a little brief authority 
Most ignorant of what he is most 
assured 
His glassy essence like an angry ape 
Plays such fantastic tricks before high 
heaven 
A!:. make the ange ls weep.



Stop the population e xplosion 
Make WAR not LOVE 
-Catholic Church 
Support Young Fascists for Christ 
A Bombing for peace is like fucking 
for virginity 
B Who gives a fuck for virginity 
C Me, twice a year 


**Untitled Quote**
**Author: R. Daley**

Gentlemen, Let's get one thing straight 
once and for all: The policeman isn't 
there to create disorde r. The police man 
is there to preserve disorder. 
- R. Daley, Aug. 1968



Come sit and cack 
With lusty back 
But leave no wrack 
Beside our closet 
Void, spurt and pump 
Yourturdous rump 
But leave no lump 
He re for deposit 
He shall shame 
Who misses aim 
Let St. Anthony's flame 
Burn his scut sear. 
Who does not swab 
His thingumbob 
All the last blob 
Ere he leave here 


**Untitled Prose**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

A Rabelais 
B Rabelaid a what? 
I pray thee now my good stout lads 
with handsome pricks held betwixt 
half-hidden in your bone y heads, pass 
on in detail all thy truths that w e might 
be amused in learning. Describe to us 
in good faith and in good nature and, 
pray Thee, spare not one horrid tale 
that ye may know, for the likes of us are 
wont of better things and better places 
and any grain of truth that might 
gleen (sic). 
Pray thee now, pen on 
The quality of female graffiti at Yale 
has been quite inferior. But until this 
year the sample has been quite limited. 
Moreover Kinsey reports that " relatively 
few females ever make wall inscr ip-
tions. When they do, fewer of the in-
scriptions are sexual and only a small 
proportion of the sexual material seems 
to provide erotic stimulation for the 
inscribers or for the persons who ob-
serve the inscriptions." How Kinsey 
obtained this latter conclusion is indeed 
questionable. Nevertheless, most of the 
feminine artistry consists in " Gather ye 
rosebuds while ye may," which appears 
from Hungry Charley's to Connecticut 
Hall. The prose is always too flowery 
and often unintelligible: 
Love looks not with the eye, but with 
the mind and therefore is winged 
cupid blind 
II 
But miserable most to love unloved 
This thaw should pity rather than 
despise 
P . ..... goden ... perfect divine 
To what, my love, shall I compare 
thine eye 
Thy lips, those kissing cherries tempt· 
ing grow, 
That pure concealed . . .. .. .. snow . .. . 
when thou holds up thy hand, and let 
me kiss this priceless of pure white, 
this seal of bliss." 
Do you always use the toilet 
Provided .. . 
Do you overuse . . . 
Which hand do you use? .. . 
Un-Stamp 
Out graph 
eaties in 
The Stalls 
and 
on our 
walls 
A Why is Miss America irrelevant to 
young American Wome n 
8 Who is rele vant? a human being 
YOUNG American men 
Whatever a human being's relation-
ship is to his graffiti has yet to be 
examined. The subject has evinced 
little research money. A re graffiti folk 
art? Simple communication? Does it 
have a formal vocabulary and what are 
its myths? To measure men by their 
graffiti may not be truly successful or 
fair. As one Yale student wrote at the 
end of a sociology paper in good 
graffiti style, "The reductionistic pitfalls 
have caused nostalgia to lose its norma-
tive st ructure." ~ 


**Seymour Melman may wear a three-piece suit, but he was fighting the Pentagon before you were.**
**Author: George Kannar**
**Page number(s): 11-12**

Seymour Melman may wear a three-piece suit, 
but he was fighting the Pentagon before you were . 
by George Kannar 
Frank talking and straight shooting have 
always been part of the American self-
image. All good Americans pride them-
selves in "getting down to business" and 
"caJiing a spade a spade." All that honesty 
began to wane, however, about twenty 
years ago when the United States gov-
ernment decided to abolish the War 
Department and set up the Department of 
Defense instead. Though the Department 
continued to send invading forces all over 
the world, now they were not in the name 
of agression, they were for "defense." 
And through the 1960's, the progression 
to greater and greater euphemisms has 
continued. 
Seymour Melman has suggested that the 
next logical step would be to rename the 
Department of Defense the Department of 
Deterrence. It would be much more in 
line with the Pentagon's current excuse for 
making war. 
Melman was being facetious, of course. 
But his misgivings about the American war 
machine go far deeper than the hypocrisy 
of its name. Melman, a professor of 
industrial engineering at Columbia and the 
leader of a Calhoun Collge seminar, is 
probably the original critic of the nation's 
military-industrial complex. And as the 
talk moves away from nomenclature and 
into guns and bombs, his joking tone 
becomes dead serious. 
Our very concept of defense, Melman 
believes, is actually a misnomer, for 
defense as such, be feels, no longer exists. 
In the nuclear age it cannot be purchased 
at any price, not even for an $83 billion 
annual budget. Furthermore, Melman 
says, the defense establishment is actually 
harming the chance for peace through its 
lust for organizational expansion. The 
primary way of satisfying that lust is war. 
Melman's voice is not as loud as that 
of some of the more recent outspoken 
opponents of the defense establishment, 
but he is no armchair critic either. 
Although his objections are the same as 
those of left-wing politicians and disaf-
fected students, his approach is basicalJy 
different: he is taking on the military-
industrial complex on its own terms. He 
researches his critiques fully and he 
provides concrete alternatives to present 
policies, such as his itemized plan for 
cutting $55 billion from the current 
military budget. 
Melman's suggested budget shows a 
basic element of his approach to the 
military-industrial machine. His writings 
and speeches are low on ideology but high 
on facts and figures. A fundamentalist 
old-fashioned patriotism runs through his 
critique; he opposes the military-industrial 
machine because it is betraying his vision 
of what America ought to be, because it is 
creating a totalitarian atmosphere directly 
contrary to the officially professed 
American dream. A "left conservative" 
like Norman Mailer, Melman wants the 
nation to steer itself back: to the democratic 
and humanitarian course it once struggJed 
to follow. 
The Pentagon·s technocratic infrastruc-
ture, says Melman, is ruining the United 
States not only through what he calJs its 
"Vietnam wars program" but also through 
the general economic and moral orienta-
tion it has created. The costs of this 
orientation are high, be says, and the 
benefits none. The nation spends too much 
time, talent and energy piling up useless 
military hardware at the expense of 
everything else. His work: at Columbia has 
largely centered on determining just what 
"everything else" is, and on figuring out 
how to begin getting some of it. 
"I've spent most of my time working on 
the economic determinants of technology 
and of alternative ways of doing things," 
Melman says. ''The alternative theme is an 
important one to me because you have to 
have alternatives to present when you 
argue with the status quo." 
Instead of merely stating that the status 
quo is immoral, Melman says it is stupid, 
inefficient and costly. And be proves it. 
From outward appearances there is no way 
of telling whose side Melman is on. He 
clothes his bulky frame in J. Press style 
elegance, he carries a battered briefcase, 
and his syntax is straight whiz-kid stuff, at 
least on the surface. Melman does not talk 
about setting up a due date for a term 
paper, he "determines the best means of 
achieving that objective." He sits in a 
seminar room as if be were sitting before a 
Senate subcommittee: back rigid, leaning 
slightly forward, hands folded on the table 
with his documents and position papers 
stacked neatly beside them, looking 
straight ahead with a suspiciously mani-
acal beam in his eyes. In precise but not 
inelegant language, he tears apart the mil-
itary machine from top to bottom coolly 
and unhurriedly. With his Cyrus Vance-
like granny glasses, Melman comes across 
as a slightly jowly member of the Kennedy 
set, a stocky Theodore Sorenson with his 
mouth fuJI. 
Melman fits the John Kennedy intellec-
tual style. He looks and talks like the 
original Kennedy crowd: a cool Ivy league 
professor, competent and committed, 
willing to come down from his ivory tower 
if the nation calls for his skills as an 
organizer and social manipulator. 
But Melman has nothing good to say 
about the Kennedys and what they did. 
They centralized the Pentagon machinery, 
and they brought in new techniques of 
data processing to keep track of what they 
were doing. Time after time McNamara 
and his band would appear at a press 
conference or Congressional hearing with 
charts, diagrams and tables all designed 
to prove, for example, that there really was 
light at the end of the Southeast Asian 
tunnel. Melman's approach is the same. He 
makes no statements he cannot back up 
with the appropriate statistics. Only he is 
proving that what sounds reasonable is 
true-not that what sounds cra.zy is true. He 
talks about reality, not think-tank 
scenarios. 
One of the first to realize that the whiz-
kid technocratic extravaganza was a 
put-on, Melman tried to warn the then 
Senator John Kennedy of the disastrous 
consequences of the ideas which his 
"expert" advisers were advancing so 
skillfully. Needless to say, the warning 
went unheeded. 
" I began to see what was coming with 
that Harvard-MIT axis. I was outraged. 
They thought they knew all the answers. 
It was real arrogance. They thought they 
had a monopoly on the brains, the money 
and the organization. They thought 
military power was the main way of 
solving international problems. 
"I was outraged and frightened, and I 
turned my hand to oppose them. Even if 
there were no institutions, even though 
there was no money. still I had two hands 
and a pen, so I decided to use them;• and 
his career as a professional voice of 
common sense was underway. 
One of his first targets was that part of 


**The Military-Industrial Complex**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 13-14**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
131 The New Journal I November 9, 1969 
In a sense, Melman says, the military industrial system is pro-
ducing in America the conditions of a backward country. 
air. He said, 'Well, why don't we get 
working on it?' I said, 'The people and the 
money just aren't there.' He said, 'Where 
are they?' I said, 'You've got them.' 
McNamara blew his stack, but he could 
not change the facts. He did have them. 
"The critical element in an industrial 
society is the supply of skilled manpower. 
The number of skilled people and the 
number of people who can be trained at 
any one time is finite. The money spent 
for military research-which makes up 
more than half of all research and 
development expenditures for everything 
in the whole country-is unavailable for 
improving the New H aven Railroad." 


Melman, who says he tries hard not to 
be paranoid, attributes this depletion to 
Sputnik, which started the space race, and 
to Robert McNamara, who converted 
the Department of Defense into a highly 
centralized and immensely powerful 
military-industrial machine. Before the 
Kennedy team took over in 1961 the 
military-industrial complex was just that, 
a complex, a loose web of governmental 
procurement agencies and private in-
dustrial firms. But Robert McNamara 
and his Wunderkinder changed all that, 
acording to Melman. They tightened up 
the organization, and, for all practical 
purposes, made the private firms into 
mere subsidiary arms of the Department 
of Defense. 


In the new "State Management," as he 
calls the Department of Defense, orders 
come down from the top and are obeyed 
below. The dependent firms have nowhere 
else to go with their products. They have 
to sell them to the D epartment of Defense 
or not at all. 


The device which brought about this 
centralization was the Defense Supply 
Agency. McNamara replaced the various 
service procurement agencies with a single 
department-wide buyer. Everyone who 
wanted to sell something had to deal with 
the same people in the government. It no 
longer paid to play off one service against 
the other. 


The Department of Defense exercises 
a startling degree of control over its 
suppliers, says Melman. It can dictate 
salaries and wages, as well as materials. 
It not only sets quality requirements, but 
also procures capital for the firms to work 
with. The capital, $83 billion of it this year, 
comes from Congress. Melman sees the 
defense budget as an $83 billion leech on 
the body economic. 


"Military expenditures are parasitic. 
Military growth is parasitic. The difference 
is that goods and services that are func-
tionally productive are either part of the 
standard of living or are useful for further 
production. Parasitic developments 
are things that are not part of living 
or producing .... 


"As for the so-called spin-off effects of 
military research ... you don't do 
something best by doing something else. 
You do something best by doing it. Sure, 
we get some benefits from military re-
search, but we would get them a lot more 
quickly and efficiently if we went out 
looking for them instead of getting them 
as by-products of some useless Department 
of Defense or NASA project.'' 


The Vietnam war clearly qualifies as the 
most useless of all useless Department of 
Defense projects, and Melman caught on 
to what was happening there before most 
other people did. A signer of the pamphlet 
"A Call to Resist Illegitimate Authority," 
later used as evidence of conspiracy in the 
trial of the Boston Five, he also personally 
warned MeN amara in 1965 about what 
was going to happen in Vietnam, only 
to receive a confident reply to the effect 
that Melman did not know what he was 
talking about. He describes looking at the 
grinning McNamara sitting serenely in 
his office beneath a portrait of the first 
Secretary of Defense, James Forrestal 
(who killed himself by jumping from the 
window of a mental institution), as "one 
of the few truly terrifying moments of my 
life." 


According to Melman, the military-
industrial machine gets away with all the 
legal and moral atrocities of Vietnam 
largely because it just has more resources 
at its disposal than anyone else. No one can 
stand up to it. It is twice the size of General 
Motors; it spends ten times as much as 
the Department of State on foreign policy 
research. In the name of "security" the 
Department of Defense can hire millions 
of technologists to spin out plans for 
different contingencies. The Pentagon 
even has a detailed contingency plan for 
American forces to fight their way 
through South Vietnamese troops to reach 
debarcation points in case of a sudden 
United States withdrawal. 


In addition, the Department of Defense 
has drawers full of contingency plans for 
the production of many weapons it does 
not already have or realistically need. As a 
result, when the President wants to pump 
some money into a sagging economy, as 
Kennedy did in the early sixties, he turns to 
the Department of Defense. The plans 
are already there; all he has to do is im-
plement them. The other branches of the 
government simply did not and do not 
have the funds and manpower on hand to 
draw up similar plans for hospitals, 
medical schools, libraries or rapid transit 
systems. 


Melman has been busy developing these 
peaceful contingency plans, working out 
the conversion of the economy to a non-
military economic base. There are, 
however, too many people dependent for 
their livelihood on the military-industrial 
state to permit its easy dismantling. 


Something has to be done with all those 
people, whose number, counting workers 
in subsidiary industries and their families, 
Melman estimates is a multiple of eight 
million. He will publish in February a five 
volume collection of papers, written 
mostly by his graduate students at 
Columbia, suggesting possible ways of 
carrying out the basic transformation 
of the economic structure of the United 
States which would be necessary to stop 
the war machine once and for all. He 
hopes the collection will be a starting point 
for a new national debate on how to avoid 
a military state. 


In a sense, Melman says, the military-
industrial system is producing in America 
the conditions of a backward country. 
'·One of the big things we point to when 
we are talking about the underdeveloped 
nations is their lack of an economic 
infrastructure: they don't have reliable 
communication, or transportation, or 
central power. Well, all those conditions 
occurred in New York City during July 
and August of 1969. The electrical supply 
sy;;te:m, Consolidated Edison, just broke 
down. There was no electricity. Trains 
and subways were hours late. Tele-
phone service got so bad that firms were 
taking full-page n.ewspaper ads just to Jet 
their customers know that they were 
still in existence. 


"In parts of New York the infant 
mortality rate compares unfavorably with 
that of several Latin American nations, 
usually the most notorious spots in that 
statistic. 


"We are not even holding our own any 
more; we're falling behind." 


The argument that all these problems 
are brought by the nature of modern 
technology itself leaves Melman cold. In 
fact he does not even explicitly condemn 
modern capitalism as one might expect. He 
just thinks that American capitalism is 
making its decisions on the basis of 
outdated criteria. The technology itself, 
he says, is neutral. 


"Two generations have been brought 
up in the present scene. In their lives, para-
sitic technology has consistently been 
portrayed as the important technology. 
And as a result many members of these 
generations identify 'technology' as 
parasitic military technology. There is a 
feeling that this is all that technology is, a 
feeling that technology is a Frankenstein's 
monster with an initiative of its own. But 
technology does not have a mind. It does 
not make decisions. It does not make 
choices among alternatives. Only man does 
these things." Only when man changes 
his social requirements will technology 
change. 


But technology has come to symbolize 
more than just the particular gadgets we 
' use in daily Hfe. The industrial system 
structures our society in its organizational 
image: a clear-cut hierarchy with bosses 
and workers, with some one to tell you 
what to do or what not to do. The alien-
ation that results comes not only from the 
technological minutiae of the production 
system itself but from the social relations 
which it fosters as well. 


Melman recognizes this and concedes 
that once a certain kind of technology gets 
going it does build up a momentum, if not 
initiative, of its own. Technology may have 
man's social preferences built into it, but 
after a while it has a hand in determining 
his social preferences as well. The sex 
machine advertising of the automobile 
industry makes this all too clear. Live 
vicariously in a Pontiac while you poison 
your children's air. 


If the only way to change the technology 
is to change man's requirements, the 
hierarchical system of organization would 
seem to be among the first things to go. 
Melman considers the former SDS ideal of 
participatory democracy as an alternative 
way of structuring economic production, 
and perhaps society at large. Until now the 
argument for participatory decision-
making has always run aground on the 
question of the alleged inefficiency of its 
operation. Critics contend that workers 
will spend as much time in meetings as 
they will on the production line. Melman 
claims that the critics are short-sighted.ln 
modern industry there are four managers 
for every ten workers anyway, he says, 
and the savings in administration overhea'd 
could offset the loss of work time which 
would result from a cooperative, societal · 
and economic structure. 


The implications of Melman's careful 
and painstakingly executed research are 
vast; they indicate that there may be a way 
out if the American people can somehow 
be persuaded that it is worth a try. Per-
suading the people is the important part. 


"We'll know we're getting somewhere 
when the day comes that no one can get 
elected to any office-not even to dog 
catcher-unless he is against Vietnam and 
anything like it. Yes, and anything like it. 
The Pentagon just churns these things out 
operationaly. It won't stop by itself. When 
enough people are against all these wars, 
the structure of the Department of Defense 
and the whole set of national priorities 
will have to change. But as long as Con-
gress supplies the money and soldiers obey 
their orders they will continue. 


"The problem is that tl1e technology 
of American foreign policy bas changed, 
but the imagery which accompanies it has 
not." The professor, who conducts sem-
inars with businessmen all over the 
country trying to explain the changes in 
foreign policy, uses the example of the 
TV western to illustrate the problem. 


"Most people still look at international 
relations with the 'High Noon' model. 
They see international affairs as a con-
frontation between states. In a confronta-
tion between the sheriff and the bad man, 
it makes a difference whether or not the 
sheriff is well trained, quick on the draw, 
and has a good pistol- maybe two pistols 
(two is better than one, you know). And 
the sheriff and the bad man face each 
other and draw, and one of them is killed. 


"Well, we're playing the game with 
nuclear bullets now. And suddenly it no 
longer matters who shoots first. As soon 
as a shot is fired-by anyone-the bad man 
goes up in smoke, the sheriff goes up in 
smoke, the whole country goes up in 
smoke." 


For ten years Seymour Melman was the 
lonesome sheriff going out to face the 
bad military-industrial machine, a lonely 
but insistent voice crying out in the tech-
nological wasteland. Now things are 
different. Even MIT, that decadent arm 
of the bankrupt society, is holding con-
ferences on how to convert to a peace-
oriented economy; now even the whiz 
kids care about a conversion. But the 
whiz kids do not have power any more. 
They have been replaced by another 
administration, another party. Maybe the 
whiz kids learned a lesson from the last 
five years, but it no longer matters. Mel-
man is not alone any longer, but that is 
small consolation as the military-industrial 
machine grinds on and on. 


America's infinite misfortune is that it 
took Vietnam- where the military-indus-
trial leviathan wastes $400,000, 75 bombs, 
150 artillery shells, and countless rounds 
of small arms fire to kill each poorly 
equipped VietCong soldier-to make even 
those few, now powerless, technocrats see 
the point. What will it take to convince 
the ones who are now in power? ~


**New Haven's Finest**
**Author: Mike Deasy**
**Page number(s): 15**

151 The New Journal I November 9, 1969 
New Haven's finest 
continued from page 2 
arrived. One policeman leapt towards us; 
the other was already pulling. I obliged 
their efforts. 


As we were herded into the paddy-
wagon, we asked what charges were 
pressed against us. 
"Disorderly conduct." 
"And on him," said one officer pointing 
to me, "resisting arrest and abusing." 
"Abusing? What does that mean?" 
"It means using bad language to a police 
officer." 
"We didn't." 


No profanity or insult was used, but that 
seemed of little import as the rear doors 
slammed shut in our faces. We sat speech-
less, facing each other as the truck made 
its half circuit around the Green, which, 
through the narrow wagon windows, 
took on a different demeanor. The entire 
city did. A hidden driveway leads from 
Court Street into the bowels of City Hall. 
We were driven into a garage. Its door 
closed. 


Four students arrived at the New Haven 
city jail at approximately 11 :00 PM where 
booking was made. No mention of bond or 
right to counsel was made. We were Jed to 
cells in two's after effecting belt-removal 
to prevent self-hanging. "Yale students are 
going to find out that when somebody says 
move, you move. They're going to find out 
that some New Haven cops aren't going to 
stand for the kind of stuff you kids try to 
pull." 


The first cell block was well sprinkled 
with hippies from the Green. The raid had 
been effective. Our block had mostly 
blacks from Haven and James Streets, 
from Henry and Dixwell. The jail was an 
unreflective green. And, like most jails, the 
toilets which are supposed to flush never 
do. Ours had four strata of urine in it 
representing prisoners of various pasts. 
Seven cigarette butts floated on top. The 
six by ten foot floor had a large puddle in 
it, whether from spittle, urine, or sweat it 
was bard to tell. 


I had asked for a telephone, but it was 
now apparent our hosts wanted us to stay 
the night. 


The jail keeper appeared. "What's your 
charge again?" He was a young Puerto 
Rican, socialized by the police and anxious 
to assert his fiefdom of power. 
"Disorderly conduct," I repeated. "And 
when do we get a telephone?" The keeper, 
however, obviously enjoying his position, 
proceeded to show us how the police can 
control a prisoner by simply tightening the 
handcuffs. He demonstrated on my wrist 
by closing the cuffs as hard as he could. 
"See, they can hurt if you get rough." 


Frank, the other student in the cell, was 
remarking that jail was not so bad. It was 
his first experience. "Rather pleasant in a 
way,like working in a factory for the 
summer. It. takes patience. The wheels of 
justice grind exceeding slow so policemen 
don't come out looking foolish." 


An unfamiliar police face walked by, 
which, at our insistence, produced a 
telephone. I called a lawyer, well-known 
enough to police so that he could have us 
released on our own recognizance. The 
attorney said we would be out in ten 
minutes, once be telephoned the desk 
sergeant. The desk sergeant agreed to 
this, yet two hours later we were still 
incarcerated. 


So, we took to singing songs, "Here we 
sit like birds in the wilderness ... " and 
trying to read the profuse graffiti. 
Don't laugh 
I did it 
and I came 
back here too 
many times 
Remember, don't laugh. 


The keeper returned to ask, for the second 
time, bow we liked it in jail. Our neighbor 
in the adjoining cell, a black, asked when 
be was getting out and was told "Never." 
I asked the keeper if he had been given the 
use of a phone. 
"But he don't get one." 
"He has a constitutional right to one." 
"No, he doesn't." 
"Why is that?" 
"He's mental. He tries to bang himself 
with the phone cord. He's mental 
retarded." 
''That doesn't make any difference; he's 
stiiJ guaranteed right to counsel," said I in 
my best liberal voice. ''You can watch him 
make the phone call if you're afraid of a 
suicide on your hands." 
"But I was told not to. Besides, he don't 
mind." 


We did mind and resorted to calling the 
Yale police. Two of them arrt\£ed within 
the half hour, apologizing for the delay: 
They had not known of our arrest. The 
proverbial Yale bail fund for students 
arrested performed its work quickly. We 
drove ho.me to Phelps Gate in the early 
morning rain. 


Two weeks later the court dropped the 
collective charge of 'disorderly conduct.' 
"These are Yale students, your honor, and 
have sanction to be at the corner of College 
and Chapel." We bad requested our lawyer 
to build his case upon our actions as 
ordinary citizens acting perfectly within 
our rights. But the prosecutor evidently 
ignored our defense, and forgot as well to 
drop the charge of resisting and abusing 
against me. 


When my lawyer and I returned to City 
Hall the following month, the arresting 
officer was sitting in the nearly empty 
courtroom. The lawyer grimaced, ''The 
prosecutor said he'd nolle it yesterday." 
The cop looked quite harmless in this 
setting. Looking carefully, I found that he 
was actually. quite uneasy. 
"All he wants is an apology, the cop. 
Apologize and you can walk out of here.'' 
My lawyer. 
"I didn't say 'fuck you'. I used no 
abusive language. How can I apologize?" 
"Look, his authority has been ques-
tioned. He wants to save face. He was 
ordered to clear the Green, got himself 
into a bind with you guys and now he 
wants a way out." 


I spoke to the policeman but did not 
apologize. He was anxious to accept 
anything I said. 


And so the judge walked in. Once 
again the prosecutor presented his case. 
Perfunctorily he explained that as a 
student at Yale, an arrest would destroy 
my career, that I was profoundly 
apologetic. The judge agreed; my attorney 
shook my hand; I left, remembering not 
to laugh.


**Letter from Cambridge**
**Author: Bill Hamilton**

Letter from Cambridge 
Exhaustion and the reality of reading 
period and final exams served to check the 
intense and agonizing self-examination 
Harvard was forced to undergo after last 
spring's bust. But anxious administrators 
and eager radicals were even then looking 
ahead to the coming academic year with 
mixed feelings <Jf apprehension and ex-
pectation. Every faction bad its own 
prediction of what was to follow; all 
agreed that the turbulence would not end. 


But after the first month of the fall 
semester, it has become apparent that 
at least for the time being an entirely 
unexpected return to normalcy bas in fact 
taken place. This is not to say that the 
issues and emotions of last April have been 
forgotten-the endless committee reports 
and the red-fist posters now sold at the 
Coop prevent that-but that the sense 
of community and concern that came out 
of the confrontation last year bas been 
scattered. 


There seems to be little sense of di-
rection on anybody's part this year. SDs-
with its endless blood-letting between 
factions -has lost its position of political 
dominance, and its meetings attract only 
a few diehards. There is no such thing 
as a moderate organization: Young Dems 
almost voted to disband, and the acrony-
mic student government organizations-
SFAC, HUC and HRPC-seem to have 
disappeared entirely. Into their places 
have stepped a number of new orga-
nizations-the Student Mobilization 
Committee, the November Action 
Committee and the Moratorium. October 
15th was certainly a success; hardly 
anyone held or attended classes, and the 
rally on the Boston Common was the 
largest in the country. But then, who isn't 
against the War, and anyway it was a 
nice day and fun to march. 


As early as the fourth day of classes the 
Administration was served a reminder of 
times past when the Weathermen dis-
rupted Henry Kissinger's old home, the 
Center for International Affairs. But 
the tactics of the disruption were so 
repugnant and the motives behind it so 
unclear, that the action was met by 
universal condemnation. It is likely that 
the CIA as well as the Cambridge Project-
a Defense Department-funded social 
sciences survey-will continue to be 
under fire. 


What activism there is focuses on the 
university's role in society and within its 
own community, and there is hardly any 
discussion about the actual quality of 
the education Harvard offers its students. 
The Fainsod Committee-set up by the 
Faculty last winter-recently released its 
report on the operation of the faculty and 
the ways students can be brought into 
the decision-making process, but unfortu-
nately it is remarkable only for its vague-
ness and statements of the obvious. 


Perhaps, as one tutor who was active 
in the strike has suggested, there is a 
cyclical pattern of activism and protest, 
and the pendulum will begin to swing 
back to where it was last spring. As the 
memories of summer begin to fade, the 
initial interest in course work begins to 
wane and it is no longer possible to 
lie in the sun on the banks of the Charles, 
there is bound to be a change in mood. 


But what person, as be surveyed the 
blood-stained Yard last April and thought 
of the coming year, could have imagined 
that the next time it would contain 
shouting students and alerted police would 
be a panty raid by several hundred fresh-
man on Radcliffe early in the semester. 
From "On strike, shut it down" to 
"Cliffies want sex" and "statutory rape" 
five months later-and somehow you know 
Warren Harding would have understood.



**November Film Schedule**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Thursday, November 6 
Siegal's Hell is for Heroes (1962) 

Friday, November 7 
Rossellini's General Della Rovere (1960) 

Saturday, November 8 
Bunuel's Vlrldlana (1961) shows at 6:30,8:30, and 10:30 p.m. 

Tuesday, November 11 
Rice's The Flower Thief (1961) 

Wednesday, November 12 
Ford's Rio Grande (1950) 

Thursday, November 13 
Hitchcock's Rebecca (1940) 

Friday, November 14 
Hawk's Hatari (1962) 

Saturday, November 15 
Fellini's I Vltelloni (1953) shows at 6:30, 8:30, and 10:30 p.m. 

Tuesday, November 18 
Bresson's Pickpocket (1967) 

Wednesday, November 19 
Ophuls's Caught (1949) 



At KLH, 
we believe that music, given a proper 
introduction, always will speak for itself. 
IIIII ~~::: 1... .. 1·-f 
david dean smith 
Corner of Elm and York 
Complete 
Novice 
Ski 
Package 
consisting 
of 
Krystal 
Europa 
wood 
skis 
with 
plastic 
bottoms, 
Koflach 
Five 
buckle 
Racer 
boot 
sealed 
sole, 
and 
Dover 
bindings 
poles. 
package 
only 
$99.95 
The Yale Co-op 
77 Broadway, New Haven 
telephone 772-2200 
open 9-5:30 Monday-Saturday, Thursday until9 

