Publication date: 04/06
Volume 38, Issue 5

**Title: Yale ROTC**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
In 1950, over half of Yale's undergraduate population participated in the military's Reserve Office Training Corp (ROTC)-the c:Qllege student's alternative to taking his chances with the  . ' draft. In addition to their normal coursework, they performed drills, took Military Science courses, and, perhaps most daunt-ingly, signed away the four years following graduation to become officers in the military. In exchange, they received Yale credit for their ROTC coursework, considerable financial aid, and, in an era when military service was almost compulsory, were able to exercise some control over how they would go about serving.


Half a century later, the basic ROTC program remains unchanged: Cadets perform drills, take military-prep courses, and commit at least four post-graduate years to serving as officers in the military. ROTC participation at Yale, however, looks very different. The overwhelming number of students who participated during its hey-day has been reduced to single digits. And, whereas in the 19 50s Yale students only had to walk across campus to participate in ROTC training, their dri11s now begin with an hour and a half-long car ride.


Every Thursday morning at 10:30, Yale Senior M:;~.tthew Hammerle pulls on a dull-green flight suit, climbs into a rental car, and drives 65 miles to ROTC training at the University. of Connecticut. On one particular Thursday last fall, he and Jason Pam.pena, a fellow cadet, stood waiting in front of Payne Whitney Gym for their rental car to be delivered. However, on this particular Thursday, Enterprise Rent-A-Car failed to pass inspection. This particular Thursday, Enterprise was late. 10:30 passed, 10:40 passed, 10:50 passed. Finally, a taxi pulled up to the curb and not one, not two, but three Enterprise representatives crawled out of the backseat. Apparently they lacked the personnel to drive the car over. They wanted Hammerle and Pampena to w~ the five blocks to Enterprise headquarters on Crown Street, but, after a quick negotiation, they, not Hammerle and Pampena, were trudging down the sidewalk, and the two cadets were in the taxi, speeding towards the car lot. As they climbed out, yet another Enterprise representative materialized. "Hey Matt, what's up buddy," he said, handing Hammerle the keys to a gray Mazda. A brief search for the car in question ensued, but finally, Hammerle and Pampena were in transit thirty minutes behind schedule. "I have no idea what happened back there," Hammerle said as he turned the car out of the lot and headed towards the highway.


s the two drove northeast, their conversation drifted away from Yale and towards ROTC. Pampena, a sophomore, had only recently begun attending ROTC classes and was unsure whether he was comfortable making a binding committnent to the military. He was so new to the program that he had yet to be issued a uniform unlike the majority of the underclass cadets, he still wore a button-down shirt and khaki pants . And, as he was coming to realize, the distance between New Haven and Storrs, where the University of Connecticut is located, poses more of an. obstacle for the Yale cadets than simply a long drive. Like any organization, ROTC has a social component, and Pampena wasn't sure how to go about inaking friends with fellow cadets he saw only once per week. "Get involved with these people outside of ROTC," Hammerle advised him. "Do some of the fundraising events." A senior, Hammerle was in his fourth year of ROTC. Just as Pampena's civilian clothes marked him as a newcomer, Hammerle's uniform placed him among the elite of his ROTC division. His flight suit indicated his status as a jet pilot one of the most coveted positions in the Air Force .


ROTC consists of three main components: classroom seminars, drill training, and physical fitness. The Air Force cadets attend training once per week, and are required to attend a Saturday session once or twice per semester. But that day's session promised two key deviations from the routine. Late in the afternoon, there would be a physical fitness test in preparation for an official exam the following week. And Jason had heard rumors that there would be an inspection.


Cadets in shorts and t-shirts, sweating through repetitions of sit-ups, push-ups, and laps around a track while yelping cadence is perhaps one of the images most commonly associated with ROTC. But while a cadet's performance on physical fitness tests affects whether he gets his desired job in the Air Force, the minimwn requirements are, according to Hammerle, quite lax. Essentially, ph~ical training is just one way the military exacts its c~ef requirement from its officers: discipline. "It says a lot intrinsically ahout how dedicated to the program you are," Hammerle said. "If you don't meet the requirements, one, that's pretty bad; two, you aren't trying at all."


The inspection Pam.pena anticipated is also about more than shiny buttons and ironed dress blues. "The idea is to make sure the younger cadets know how to wear their uniform and that the older cadets are still keeping neat," Hammerle said. "It teaches discipline you have to stand at attention for an extended period of time." "What happens if you have to sneeze while at attention?" Pampena asked . Hammerle laughed. "Umm ... hold it?" he said, half-questioningly. "I mean, if you have to sneeze, you have to sneeze, but it's about discipline." The premium the military places on discipline transcends the walls of the classroom. As representatives of the Air Force, the officers are expected to embody its values in their public and private lives Hammerle, peppered his speech with asides such as "this is just my opinion, not the Air Force's." To uphold the reputation of the Air Force is a weighty responsibility, especially for ROTC cadets who will, on average, work full time for the military by the age of 22. When his fellow Yale seniors are tentatively acclimariz1ng to the world beyond col-lege, Hammerle will be thrown in head-first. On May 20, he receives his commission as a Second Lieutenant.


nce they arrive at Storrs, Hammerle and Pampena split up. Pampena joins his fellow sophomores for a history lesson while Hammerle and the other senior cadets seat themselves around a table in a drab, gray conference room. The room is equipped with computers, projection equipment, and fancy speaker phones, the last of which hold the cadets' attention. Each week, part of their classroom time is devoted to telephoning an officer in the Air Force. This week their mentor is Lieutenant Ian Young, who boasts 15 years_ of military experience ten as an p f£!t:er and has been stationed in locales ~ "far-flung as Djibouti, Germany, and Florida. One by one, in brisk, official to.,..t;~s/~e · caqets present him with questions such as: "Sir, what is jt like to be married to a fellow officer?" "Sir, you are prior enlisted what are the best leadership qualities you've seen implemented by an officer?" "Sir, what is a typical day like as a maintenance officer?" "Sir, what culture differences did you encounter between the Air Force and Marines in Africa?" "Sir, what is it like coming back to the U.S. from overseas?"


Their questions and Young's answers emphasized that these cadets are not merely preparing for a job; they are preparing for a lifestyle. Like Lieutenant Young, they will return from abroad to find that their farniHes are doing just fine without thetn. They will squabble with Marines over stolen video games. They will conduct search and rescue missions in 120 degree heat. All of these may occur during their tour of duty in the Air Force.


fter thcir phone call to Young, the senior cadets are given a brief break. Some adjourn to the ROTC lounge, where they snack, recount weekend exploits, and coordinate logistics for an upcoming movie night. Others-UCoon students dash across campus to attend their other, academic classes. No matter how late they are, the uniformed cadets salute one another as they cross paths. While they don't come close to out-numbering their civilian peers, they are a visible presence on campus. And this points to the m ost difficult part of Hammerle and his fellow Yale cadets' decision to participate in the program: There is no ROTC program at Yale.


ammerle, two other Air Force cadets, and a lone Arrny cadet compose Yale's entire ROTC contingent. But in the not-too-distant past, Yale did have a strong involvetnent in ROTC. Professor Gaddis Smith, who is about to publish a book titled Yale in the 2rfh Century, explained succinctly why Yalies were once drawn to the program: In the 1950s, "ROTC was a way of getting through college without getting drafted" But Yale's relationship with military training began even before the conception of · the ROTC program. For a number of years after the Civil War, Yale students perfoned rudimentary 1 oilitat y exercises to satisfy the conditions of a federal grant. The grant was eventually withdrawn, and until World War I, Yale lacked a milita t y presence. "When World War I broke out in 1914, a great many students, alumni, and even the president of the University belie ed very srrongl in military pre-paredness," Smith said. 'CVale established 15