Publication date: 10/69
Volume 3, Issue 2

**Revolution**
**Author: Gene Marine**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

Revolution 
continued from page 7 
sources which could be used to make the 
charges appear exceedingly plausible. 
The news coverage of the case has been 
very slanted and prejudicial, and the pub-
lic consciousness has not been awakened 
to the injustice of their present situation. 
Many of the Panthers' rights were 
abridged during the arrest and the subse-
quent imprisonment. The police didn't 
have a warrant when they smashed into 
the headquarters and most of their evi-
dence, including the now legendary tape, 
was seized illegally. They were denied 
access to an attorney both the night of the 
arrest and sometime afterward, and no 


bail was ever set for their release. Neither 
the defendants nor their attorney were 
notified of the grand jury proceedings, 
nor were they represented at the inquest, 
which determines cause of death in the 
victim. They were denied a preliminary 
hearing and were indicted by the grand 
jury, the weapon of the prosecution, 
which met in secret. The "felons" are kept 
in solitary confinement for the most part 
and dispersed to prisons throughout the 
state. In a conspiracy trial it is extremely 
useful to isolate the defendants, especially 
the young ones, in order to gain contra-
dictory and incriminating testimony. 


One of the points of the defense will 
be the constituency of the jury and the 
process of selecting it. Point nine of the 
Panther program states "We want all black 
people when brought to trial to be tried 
in court by a jury of their peers or people 
from the black communities, as defined by 
the Constitution of the United States." 
This is intended to dispell the hoax that 
"all Americans are equal" whch allows, 
for instance, the crimes of a broken, old 
black man to be tried by ten middle class 
white businessmen, one woman and a 
token black from the bourgeoisie. A New 
Haven attorney recently stated that he 
was unable to remember ever seeing any 
black man in a New Haven jury. To com-
bat the inherent racism of the jurors at 
Huey Newtons' trial, Dr. Robert Blauner, 
from the University of California, a spe-
cialist in racism, presented this four-point 
yardstick: 


The juror, he said, should know something 
about black history and culture; be should be 
aware of his own racism and be working 
to overcome it; be should have lived a life 
more equalitarian than segregated-one 
which includes experience with blacks and 
other minority people; and be should be ac-
tively concerned with changing the racist 
structure of his society, not in his spare 
time, but in his daily life. 


Gene Marine. The Black Panthers. 
The Panthers say, "We have been, and 
are being tried by aU-white juries that 
have no understanding of the average 
reasoning man of the black communty." 
Needless to say, neither the all-black jury 
nor the racially self-conscious jury were 
accepted as models for the jury in Oak-
land, nor will they be in New Haven. 
But the questions must be raised. 


Another part of the defense will deal 
with the prejudicing of the case that is 
part of the hysteria generated by the in-
flammatory articles and impressions 
given by the national media, and par-
ticularly by New Raven's own blind spot, 
The New Haven Register. Evidence has 
been introduced and conclusions have 
been made in the Register, as a result of 
possibly intentional news leaks from po-
lice sources, which should only be maae 
public during the trial. The presumption 
of innocence which is necessary to every 
fair trial, the defense feels, is impossible 
because every newspaper reader in the 
New Haven area "knows" the incontro-
vertible "facts" about the case. 


The Panthers can be expected to push 
their politics in relation to this trial. As a 
response to what they feel to be a con-
certed effort to destroy their organization 
by the government of this country, the 
Panthers are going to build their move-
ment. They are involved in a vivid demon-
stration of the failures of the system that 
they are trying to destroy. They propose 
to show the huge injustice and inequality 
of the society in which we Jive by laying 
their lives on the line and by encouraging 
others to "join them in a conspiracy to 
make a world in which people have con-
trol over their lives." It is necessary to 
discern the forces that control judgment 
and to interpret the facts of this case be-
cause of the huge political implications 
involved. 


"It's not an overstatement to say that 
the destiny of the entire human race de-
pends on the outcome of what is going 
on in America today .... and the most 
serious question before the American peo-
ple is who now, in this post civil-rights era, 
are the true patriots, the new right or the 
new left?" said Eldridge Cleaver in Soul 
on lee. Depending on your viewpoint, the 
Black Panther Party, as a manifestation of 
the heightened consciousness of the 
awakening black masses, poses the most 
serious threat or the brightest hope in this 
country today.lt is therefore vitally impor-
tant, if we still make claim to be a just so-
ciety, to ascertain whether they are on trial 
for their alleged crimes or for their politi-
cal beliefs. The Panthers have established 
camp in that precarious area of the politi-
cal spectrum where they find the needs of 
the people in conflict with the interests of 
the government and the status quo. We 
held such positions as the vanguard of 
freedom in countries of Eastern Europe 
and pride ourselves on our latitude of 
political stance in this country. It is neces-
sary to guard that freedom both for our-
selves and for others if this society is ever 
to remain flexible and responsive to our 
needs. Cleaver is right when he says "If we 
can't walk down the street in security, you 
can't walk down the street in security." 


**Yale Law School Film Society Presents Its October Festival**
**Page number(s): 14**

The Yale Law School Film Society Presents Its October Festival 
Man And Revolution 
· 
Monday, Oct. 13: LaGuerre est Finie 
Directed by Alain Resnais, Yves Montand stars 
in this moving tale of a lifetime revolutionary. 
101 Linsly-Chit. 6:45, 9:oo, u:15/rJrt 
Sunday, Oct. 19: The Organizer 
Marcello Mastroianni as a persecuted labor 
organizer at the turn of the century. 
101 Linsly-Chit. 7:oo, 9:30/75¢ 
Monday, Oct. 20: The Battle of Algiers 
"The .first training film in urban 
guerilla warfare." Jimmy Breslin 
Law School Auditorium 7:00,9:30, 12:oo/75¢ 
midnight show free to the people of New Haven. 

1 01 Linsly-Chittenden 
7:00 and 9:30p.m. (unless otherwise noted) 
Thursday, October 9 
Raoul Walsh's OBJECTIVE BURMA (1945) 
Friday, October to 
John Ford's SEVEN WOMEN (1965) 
Saturday, October 11 
Jean Renoir's PICNIC ON THE GRASS (1959) 
Tuesday, October 14 
Carl Dreyer's VAMPYR (1931) 
Wednesday, October 15 
John Ford's THE LOST PATROL (1934) 
Thursday, October 16 Note: Shows at 7:00 and 10:00 p.m. (1942} 
Jacques Tourneur's CAT PEOPLE (1942} 
Christian Nyby's THE THING (1951} 
Friday, October 17 
Kenji Mizoguchi's STREET OF SHAME (1956} 
Saturday, October 18 
Luis Bunuel's LAND WITHOUT BREAD (1932) and MEXICAN BUS RIDE (1954) 
Tuesday, October 21 
Carl Dreyer's PASSION OF JOAN OF ARC (1928) 
Wednesday, October 22 
Fritz Lang's MOONFLEET (1954) 

Belta, Bags, Ties 
5% disco"unt with this advertisement