Publication date: October 2007
Volume: 40
Issue number: 2


**MASTHEAD:**
- Publisher: Lauren Harrison
- Editor-in-Chief: Jontry Dach
- Managing Editors: Nicole Allan, Nick Handler
- Designer: Rachel Engler
- Senior Editors: Emi!J Koh, Sophia Lear
- Production Manager: Jordan Jacks
- Associate Editors: Tess Dearing, Aditi Ramakrishnan, Mitchell Reich
- On-line Editors: Ben Lasman, Ali Seitz
- Copy Editor: Laura Bennett
- Research Director: Laura Zax
- Staff: Amy Fish, Pat Hayden, Daniel Jordan, Matthew Lee, Brooks Swett
- Members and Directors: Joshua Civin, Peter B. Cooper, Tom Griggs, Brooks Kelley, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Kathrin Lassila, Jennifer Pitts, Henry Schwab, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, David Slifka, Fred Strebeigh, Thomas Strong, John Swansburg
- Advisors: Richard Bradley, Jay Carney, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Michael Addison, Austin Family Fund, Steve Ballou, J. Neela Banerjee, Margaret Bauer, Emily Bazelon, Anson M. Beard, Jr. Blaire Bennett, Richard Bradley, Martha Brant, Susan Braudy, Daniel Brook, Hilary Callahan, Jay Carney, Daphne Chu, Josh Civin, Jonathan M. Clark, Constance Clement, Andy Court, Masi Denison, Albert J. Fox, Mrs. Howard Fox, David Freeman, Geoffrey Fried, Sherwin Goldman, David Greenberg, Stephen Hellman, Laura Heymann, Gerald Hwang, Walter Jacob, Jane Kamensky, Tina Kelley, Roger Kirwood, Lewis E. Lehrman, Jim Lowe, E. Nobles Lowe, Daniel Murphy, Martha E. Neil, Peter Neil, Howard H. Newman, Sean O'Brien, Laura Pappano, Julie Peters, Lewis and Joan Platt, Josh Plaut, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, Fairfax C. Randal, Robert Randolph; Stuart Rohrer Arleen and Arthur Sager, Richard Shields, W Hampton Sides, Lisa Silverman, Scott Simpson, Adina Proposco and David Sulsman, Thomas Strong, Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Wilson, Daniel Yergin and Angela Stent Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- 12 OFF THE MARK - Nicole Allan
- 24 BRIDGING THE GULF - Ali Seitz
- 18 GASTRONAUTS - Laura Zax
- 20 INTERNET KILLED THE VIDEO STORE - Sophia Lear
- 34 BGNONE - Alexis Fitts
- 37 CLEANING HOUSE - Pat Hayden
- Points of Departure
- The Profile - Laura Yao
- Toy Story
- Shots in the Dark - Breanna Jedrzgewski
- Out of Africa
- The Critical Angle - Alexandra Schwartz
- The Measure of a Man
- The Personal Essay - Dave Thzer
- Digging It
- Endnote - Matthew Lee
- Virus Sean


**Title: 12 OFF THE MARK**
**Author: Nicole Allan**
**Page number(s): 12**

Yale returns to homegrown dining services.


**Title: 24 BRIDGING THE GULF**
**Author: Ali Seitz**
**Page number(s): 24**

Yale students discover Cuba.


**Title: 18 GASTRONAUTS**
**Author: Laura Zax**
**Page number(s): 18**

Elis explore an alternative meal plan.


**Title: 20 INTERNET KILLED THE VIDEO STORE**
**Author: Sophia Lear**
**Page number(s): 20**

Renting locally in a digital age.


**Title: 34 BGNONE**
**Author: Alexis Fitts**
**Page number(s): 34**

Yale students educate Connecticut's felons.


**Title: 37 CLEANING HOUSE**
**Author: Pat Hayden**
**Page number(s): 37**

Fraternity brothers hire homeless help.


**Dining Etiquette 101, or "Tine-Counting for I-Bankers"**
**Author: Miranda Pokry**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
4 
• 
-UISine 
THE 
INVITATION, 
PRINTED 
ON 
CREAM-
colored cardstock, advised us to gather 
in the Calhoun Common Room no later 
than 4:45. By 4:50, four undergraduate 
Eliza Doolittles in need of cutlery skills 
had waridered in: a strapping lad in jeans 
and a white polo shirt, two gentlemen in 
slacks and white button-down shirts, and 
a young lady sporting undersized cotton 
athletic .shorts and high-heeled flip-
flops. By five o'clock, the flock had filled 
out. A door swung open, and we were 
herded into a small room adjacent to the 
. 
-
dining hall by a venerable representative 
of 
Undergraduate 
Career 
Services' 
Employer-in-Residence program. Dining 
Etiquette 101, or "Tine-Counting for 
I-Bankers," was about to begin. No 
one commented on the irony inherent 
in attempting to teach proper dining 
etiquette next to an actual dining hall. 
I settled into a chair and surveyed 
the scene: three tables covered in white 
cloth, crowded with 25 place-settings-
each with a knife, a spoon, two forks, 
and three glasses, all more or less clean 
and in working condition. I perused the 
two-page handout on "Eating Etiquette" 
(Rule One: ''Dress for the occasion") 
and eyed the high-heeled flip-flopper 
with contempt. But before I could read 
further, I was assaulted by a wave of sickly 
sweet cologne. A genial fellow with long, 
bushy, blond hair, flushed cheeks, and 
loud, checked capri pants was hovering 
over my right shoulder. Eager to impress 
me with his homegrown (and, as I later 
learned, Hungarian) manners, he bowed 
low and asked if he "might" sit. I opened 
my notebook, noted his untraceable 
accent, and nodded politely. 

While seats were filling, he giggled 
excitedly over the etiquette guidelines. 
At first it was all fun and games (Rules 
Four, Nine, and Eleven boil down to the 
same sentiment: "Having a non-alcoholic 
beverage is a perfecdy. good option"). But 
then, disaster. Rule Five: "Be sure to leave 
one hand free. for shaking hands or eating. 
You can do this by using all the fingers 
and palm of your other hand. Fold your 
napkin loosely around your litde finger. 
Balance the hors d'oeuvre plate between 
your ring and middle fingers, and hold 
your glass or cup between your index 
finger and thumb." The laughter died on 
his lips: Tentatively poking the napkin 
protruding from the glass in front of him 
with his pinky finger, he turned to me, 
crestfallen. Not wanting to remove the 
napkin . mainly in the spirit of Rule Six: 
''Wait to go in to dinner or sit down until 
either your host(s) say to sit or until they 
are seated." 
I mimed an explanation. 
''Don't worry," I told him, pointing to the 
rule's last line, "It even says here, 'It takes 
a litde practice."' 

The workshop proper began with 
some preliminary remarks from the self-
appointed Henry Higgins of flatware 
(in reality, Catherine Stebinger), who 
frequently interrupted herself to correct 
our already objectionable manners. Two 
would-be hedge fund managers were 
sharply chastised for wearing baseball 
caps; they nodded contritely but kept their 
hats on. Tongue-lashing over, we were 
asked to file into the dining hall proper so 
that we could swipe our ID cards. Only 
then did I realize that our faux business 
dinner, served by an embarrassingly 
obsequious dining hall employee-cum-
waiter, would be served with a side of 
signature 
Calhoun 
Caribbean 
Blend 
vegetables. They were, as usual, soggy. 

During the salad course, the first of 
several governing metaphors revealed 
itself: business dinner as obstacle course. 
We .didn't so much use what was on the 
table as navigate around it. Passing the 
bread basket proved to be the equivalent 
of successfully crossing a thirty-foot 
• • 
balance log during the fifth week of boot 
camp. That danger overcome, a thirsty 
girl nervously raised her hand: "I have a 
question. How _ do we drink our water?" 
Answer: you just do. "How do you mix 
your salad nicely?" asked another clueless 
diner. Answer: you don't. I looked down 
at my own plate and realized that the 
couscous atop my lettuce violated Rule 
Eight ("If you are ordering from a 
restaurant menu, avoid food that w]U drip 
or slip"). I ate around it. After all, I didn't 
want to look, in Ms. Stebinger's words, 
"dirty." 

The 
"waiter" 
came 
around 
to 
pour the "red wine" (Kool-Aid). The 
Hungarian was enthusiastic about Rule 
Ten (''Whoever orders the wine will 
have a small amount poured into the 
glass to taste. Smell it delicately, sip it, 
rolling it around on your tongue, then 
swallow. Unless it tastes like vinegar, 
nod your head and say something like, 
'Excellent!' or 'Very Good."'), He sipped, 
swirled, and swallowed. It tasted more 
.like flavored sugar water than vinegar. 
He excitedly proclaimed it "Excellent!" 
He had harkened to a casual warning of 
Ms. Stebinger's, one that struck me as an 
appropriate mantra 
for the workshop, 
for a postgraduate future in the business 
world: ''You want to accept a lot of what's 
happening unless it's actually going to be 
harmful." Around the table, the future 
employees 
of G6ldrnan-Sachs 
were 
drinking the Kool-Aid. 

The main course established a second 
fundamental principle: eat, as Scarlett 
O'Hara would say, like a bird. We were 
told, first verbally and then through 
an energetic demonstration, to butter 
our bread and cut our meat one bite at 
a time: with fork in left hand, and knife 
in right hand, cut one piece; set knife 
down at four o'cl~ck; switch fork to .right 
hand; spear bite; eat; repeat. Above all, 
mouthfuls were to be kept small. A thin 
girl asked what a diner should do if she 
wasn't particularly hungry. Considering 
the pace of the cutting-switching-biting 
routine, I was more preoccupied with 
. what an interviewee should do if she were 
hungry. By this point, we had been sitting 
primly for over thirty minutes and had 
'!HE NEW JOURNAL 


**Patriotic Cakes and Political Statements**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

• 1e 
THE GUIDELINES WERE SIMPLE: "CAKE BASE 
may be made of Styrofoam and measure 
not more than 12" high. Decorate cake 
depicting patriotism theme and include 
a name card listing your entry." The 
rules read, the task clear, the ingredients 
purchased, amateur bakers from around 
the state revved up their KitchenAid 
mixers and set their sights on the 
fairgrounds in Durham, Connecticut. 

There are over 45 fairs in the state 
of Connecticut, but the Association of 
Connecticut Fairs considers Durham's 
to be one of the 
year's greatest. 
Complete with livestock and agricultural 
competitions, 
~arnival 
rides, 
and 
concession stands b · 
· g with fried, 
sugar-coated artery-assailants, this year's 
event reported a total of 12,844 registered 
October 2007 
exhibits. In certain divisions, · baking 
included, a blue ribbon at the Durham 
fair is your ticket to compete at the state 
contest in November. Envisioning the 
daunting pool of diehard competitors, I 
steered clear of the prestigious apple· pie 
contest. The whimsical Patriotic Cake 
division seemed more at my level. 

A few days later, the apartment glittered 
with red sugar, an edible pixie dust that 
settled on everything within a ten-foot 
radius of the kitchen. My favorite t-shirt 
was spangled with blue food coloring as I 
dispensed Crest-colored frosting to form 
an All-American bustier on a Barbie doll's 
plastic chest. A small crowd of onlookers 
was dusted in flour and sprinkles. "The 
last time I thought about edible clothing," " 
one commented, "it wasn't in. such a 
wholesome context.'' 

Events more wholesome and less 
nutritious than the baking contest at the 
Durham Fair are hard to come by. In 
keeping with the "Patriotic" theme of 
the decorated cake division, Barbie was 
to be the star of my "Miss America" 
masterpiece. So while my friends sat 
across from me at the kitchen table, one 
editing his Rhodes application and the 
other grappling with a physics problem 
set, I played culinary Barbie doll dress-up. 
Considering all of the feminist articles 
and polls that seem determined to 
expose latent domestic wannabes among 
undergrads, I was surprised that no one 
worried I was neglecting more serious 
work. 

Yet the creative process of cake 
design was more challenging than I had 
anticipated. With self-righteous scorn at 
the notion of a Styrotoam base, I had 
immediately ruled out anything but 100 
percent made-from-scratch cake. But my 
creative impulses exhausted themselves 
shortly after I settled on a general red, 
white and blue color scheme, and I sought 
inspiration from friends. 
''You should make a cake in the shape 
of an SUV," one suggested. An informal 
survey of Yale students involving free 
association of the words "patriotism" and 
"cake" resulted in predictably political 
replies: Bush's head as a pound cake, red 
and blue states on a beet cake map, a 
mosaic of brand name commodities. At 
the suggestion of "something to do with 
obesity," however, I rea1ized that activism 
would not be the right ingredient when 
winning a baking contest was at stake. 

When I was growing up, the annual 
Independence Day picnic in North 
Haven, . Maine featured a bring-your-
own-dessert table where tasty treats were 
exchanged for free watermelon, hot dogs 
and other American standards. The one 
rule of the dessert table was that no one 
could dig in until12:30 on the dot. A sun-
bonneted older wom::tn guarded a kitchen 
timer that ticked off the minutes. At the 
sound of the bell, we converged upon 
the coveted goodies like vultures. Ding! 
Inspiration hit at the recollection of 
my seventh birthday doll cake 
Barbie 
donned a fashionably frosted "red velvet" 
dress. Reincarnated as "Miss America," a 
similar cake could be a lighthearted take 
on the patriotic theme, and perhaps just 
technically challenging enough to catch 
the eye of the judges. 

The Durham Fair's criteria for judging 
a decorated cake are based on a hundred-
point scale. Creative Theme, fifty; Color 
Blending, 25; Decorating Technique, 25. 
Taste and texture didn't count, which was 
lucky, since I had forgotten to add vanilla 
to my batter. No one ever clarified what 
"color blending" involved. I can only 
speculate that I got away with raspberry-
colored (rather than true red) trim on 
the three-tiered dress because frosting 
is inevitably tinted pink when forming 
a Barbie's outfit. I had also aspired to 
either a bright ultramarine or regal Yale 
blue, but discovered that adding drop 
after drop of blue dye only increased its 
dn1lness. Eventually, I had to settle for a 
faded denim color. 

Among the eleven entries in the 
Patriotic Decorated Cake category, five 
featured American flags, two supported 
the 
military, 
one 
sported 
sculpted 
miniatures of hot dogs, baseballs and 
apple pie, and another imitated a ballot 
box, implore us to ''VO'IE!" Mine wasn't 
the only cake donning a doll. One of 
my competitors dressed ''Betsy Ross" 
in fondant icing so smooth it looked 
like 
porcelain. 
A 
handwritten 
note 
rested near Bets 's apron, ''In honor of 
those who do what they can at home." 
A simple, perfectly-executed three:..layer 
cake sprouting stars like tinsel won Best 
of Show. 

First-place ribbons went to cakes with 
5 


a cause, second to those that celebrated a 
specific aspect of American culture, and 
third to the remainder. If my cake had a 
cause, I'm not sure exactly what it was. 
Though I had briefly agonized over the 
ethnicity and hair color of my Barbie, I 
ultimately bought a safely blonde-and-
blue-eyed gal with the least excessive 
amount of painted makeup. If only to 
appease a faint tug of collegiate rebellion, 
I pulled together a mild political statement 
by constructing a candy crinoline of Dum-
.Dum lollipops around the base of the 
cake. Barbie scintillated in a homemade · 
sash and a makeshift crown of jeweled 
bobby-pins; I came away with a second-
place ribbon. 


**The Anarchist Bookstore**
**Author: Sarah Insberg**
**Page number(s): 6**

illiams 
THURSDAY 
EVENINGS 
AND 
FRIDAY 
afternoons, a second sign hangs at 810 
State Street underneath the faded, peeling 
wooden plaque that reads "N everending 
Books." This one is bigger and newer and 
brighter. In hot pink capital letters, it de-
clares "Elm City Infoshop." Though the 
lettering is bold, the words themselves 
are unilluminating. The group's unofficial 
nickname, "the anarchist bookstore," helps 
a little, but it can create misconceptions of 
its own 
one Yalie was sure the group was 
somehow a "front" for the Party of the 
Right. 

The first person I see when I arrive at 
the Elm City Infoshop is Jim Hoffecker, a 
quiet man with a beard and long ponytail. 
He is setting up the sign to announce the 
Infoshop's takeover of the space for the 
evening. When I ask him about the Infos-
hop, he tells me, ''I'm the leader." Then he 
laughs. "Just kidding." 

Of course, the Infoshop's ideology 
won't allow for any kind of leadership. 
While the "anarchistic bookstore" is indeed 
anarchistic in practice, it isn't a bookstore 
at all. According to the group's website, it's 
a "non-profit, collectively run space for 
the exchange of ideas as they pertain to 
the interests of our community." In other 
words, it's an organization that provides 
a place for people to talk, hosts a weekly 
book club, and operates a modest lending 
library. 

The lending library, which consists 
of one bookcase, stands · in Neverend-
ing Books' dark, dusty front room. The 
space is crammed with· shelves and shelves 
of used books, s9me alphabetized, some 
just stacked on top of each other. The 
Infoshop's sirigle bookcase is filled with 
unalphabetized radical .and anarchist litera-
' 
ture of all kinds, ranging from Anarcho.ryn-
dicalism: Theory and Practice to Nietzsche to 
more conventional fare like The Philosopf?y 
of Punk and Naomi Wol£ A sign informs 
visitors that these books, unlike many of 
the others in Neverending Books, are not 
free and are meant to be borrowed. 

In the next room, about ten people 
have settled into .chairs, perched on stools, 
or claimed spots on the floor, chatting with 
each other as they wait for the Infoshop's 
weekly book club meeting to begin. Al-
though the Infoshop is not affiliated with 
Yale, most of those in attendance are stu-
dents of one kind or another. They sport 
the badges of non-conformity: mostly un-
shaven, often pierced. Unusual hairstyles 
and square-framed glasses abound. 

I pass up the red swivel chairs and sit 
down; Someone says I look like I'm about 
to read them a story. Instead, I ask a basic 
question that's been intt iguing me: What 
is anarchism? A long pause follows. ''It's 
complicated," someone finally ventures. 

Perhaps the hesitation is not surpris-
ing, given that uninformative "an-" at the 
beginning of the word. Anarchists agree 
on what they reject 
government, or, in 
the case of the Elm City Infoshop, any 
kind of hierarchy at all 
but their views 
vary widely on everything else. ''There's a 
lot of room for discussion and disagree-
ment," member Mike Ketch explains. 

Today, though, there isn't much con-
tention on display. The group would 
rather talk about their anarchist actions 
than quibble over definitions. Ketch tells 
me about the Infoshop members' involve-
ment with the group Food Not Bombs, 
an organization that provides food to the . 
homeless. ''Instead of writing to our con-
gressman and saying, 'There are hungry 
people in New Haven,' it's a leaderless way 
to tackle the problem." 

Other members mention one anarchist 
group that fights sexual assault without 
involving to the police, and another that 
provides free mental health care. "All you 
need to be an anarchist," Ketch tells me, 
"is to say, 'I don't want a boss, or a tyrant, 
or a president. I just want to work things 
out with my neighbor without calling the 
police."' 

All this sounds innocent enough. Yet, 
according to Ketch, "Yale is certainly hos-
tile to anarchists." Other members pro-
vide several examples of the University's 
antagonism, including the decision not 
to renew former Yale professor David 
Graeber's contract with the Anthropology 
Departtnent in 2005, allegedly because of 
his anarchist beliefs. 

Indeed, several . members, including 
Ketch, . are wary of being tied in print to 
an anarchist group. Even Ketch uses an 
assumed name with the group. He recalls 
a time when he and a friend, who was fac-
ing critnit;lal charges, were forbidden to as-
sociate because of Ketch's ties to radical 
groups. On a more pedestrian level, mem-
bers fear prospective employers being put 
off after a Google search. 

Asked to imagine an anarchist soci-
ety, the group again draws a blank 
and, 
they counter, that's not the point. ''I have 
no idea," says Camille Seaberry, "and if 
I sit around all day thinking about what 
it might look like, I'll never get anything 
done." Anyway, she says, anarchy already 
exists, exemplified by groups like the Elm 
City Infoshop. '~ decisions are made as a 
collective," she says, "and that's anarchy." 

A few minutes later, the book club 
begins to discuss the fifteenth issue of 
the 'zine Doris, subtitled "D. I. Y Antide-
pression Guide." Having picked out the 
week's reading, Kanga Dee is responsible 
for leading the discussion. 'Ibis makes 
her nervous. ''I dGn't think I've ever re-
ally facilitated anything before," she says, 
and after tentatively calling on the first few 
people to speak, she gives up, letting the 
conversation unfold spontaneously. The 
talk doesn't really need a leader, anyway. 
~Sarah ins berg 
'IHE NEW JOURNAL 



**New Haven's Ironic Fashion Statement**
**Author: Brooks Swett**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
•
ee
1me
I RECEN'ILY SPOTIED A YOUNG WOMAN 0
York Street sporting a shirt emblazoned:
"New Haven: I hear some smart people
live their." I read right; in addition to
Urban Outfitters' one-liner tees, Yale
students and New Haveners are now
sporting a new line of ironic clothing.
On campus and around town, slogan-
bearing shirts, some raunchy and others
ridiculous, are asserting a fierce but self-
amused pride in the Elm City, in much
the same vein as Cornell's popular "Ithaca
is Gorges" t-shirt line. While alumni and
students have long enjoyed a tradition
of Yale gear, only a limited selection of
New Haven memorabilia existed
until
recently. As Jennifer Lahert, manager
of the tourist center Info New Haven,
describes, groups are finally playing to the
long untapped market for New Haven
memorabilia.

Since Town Green Special Services District,
a
group
that
promotes
developrnent in downtown New Haven,
opened Info New Haven ten years ago,
the production of Elm City souvenirs
has taken off. Walgreens now sells a
variety of homespun shirts
provocative
ones read, "New Haven: Friendly with
Benefits"; others cheer in avuncular pastel
font, '~ew Haven
My Kind of Town!"
At Info New Haven, more historically-
inclined tourists and natives can choose
from shirts designed by the Town Green
directors and Info
ew Haven staff,
including '~ew Haven: More Jjke Old
Haven" and the especially popular fitted
tees, available in baby blue and light pink,
"New Haven: Jaywallcing since 1638."
Others opt for a subtler motto, presented
October 2007
in stark black and white, "New Haven:
It's better than your town." The so-called
"Smart Tee," sported by the woman on
..
York Street, is also a favorite. K.atie Rowe, .
the employee at Info New Haven who
conceived of this slogan, first tells me that
it was just an attempt to make a Yale shirt
while avoiding copyright issues but then
· laughs and assur~s me that she's joking.
Like her design, the new tees are aimed at
"various aspects of New Haven."
While the iconic "I 0 New York"
shirts
capture
many
tourists'
pure
excitement from a trip to the Big Apple,
the New Haven slogans reflect the
more ambivalent relationship that exists
between the city and its residents or
visitors. Many feel a familial connection
to the city; they may whine about her or
tease her like an annoying little sister, but
deep down there is some affection, some
loyalty. Jayna Whitcher, a J.E. junior who
appreciates the new line's humor, bought
the "New Haven: My Kind of Town"
sweatshirt. Acknowledging that most
people do not find the city "their kind of
town," she recalls Harvard fans' taunts
at the Game about having to return to
New Haven and disparaging comments
about the city's crime rate and poverty
level from people back home. With an
optimism that matches her shirt's cheer,
Whitcher says, '~ew Haven is an intrinsic
part of a Yalie's experience, for good ~'ind
for bad. But," she adds, "I like to think,
mostly for good."
Students will soon have the chance
to express their feelings for
ew Haven
not only by wearing but also by coining
these catchphrases. Info
-
hopes to expand its t-shirt offerings and
would welcome student submissions for
slogans. One can only imagine the ideas
Yalies would come up with; perhaps:
"The Have
a Must Have!" or "New
Haven is for Muggers"?
However, submitl ing slogans does
not guarantee glory. John, a dedicated
Info
ew Haven employee, suggested a
design with labeled drawings of East and
West Rocks framing the simple, classic:
'' ew Haven Rocks." His pitch was never
printed, but he still hopes it may someday
hit the streets.
-Brooks S weft
,.
.
'
A
de
r.ta
mtc
and Scholarly :
The
far Books
AboutYa.le and Books
by Afumni and
World
A Distinctive Selection
ofYale Apparel, Gifts
and
7


**What's in a Name? Koffee Too? Seeks a New Identity**
**Author: Sarah Utman**
**Page number(s): 8**

8
a me
WHAT's IN A
MIE? AccoRDING TO L EE
and Tracy Jackson, a lot. Just before
classes began, the duo, owners of Koffee
Too?, announced a contest to rename
their store. The prize: free coffee for a
year. The person who.se name is selected
could save $1529.35, or the price of one
cup of coffee 365 times over.

The smali York Street coffee shop's
current name stems from former ties with
Koffee on Audubon. When the Jacksons
relinquished ownership of I<offee in
2002, however, Koffee Too? remained
connected in name. As General Manager
Benjamin Wilkinson explains with a
smile, ''We're really about seven years
overdue for a name change." Much of
the impetus for the current rechristening
comes from a growing desire to distance
their store from their competitors at
Koffee on Audubon and its sister shop,
Koffee on Orange, which was known
as Moka until this September. ''We want
people to know the difference between
the two," says Wilkinson. Scott Crawl,
a K2 barista, agrees; he claims the new
name will "differentiate our brand from
the other Koffees." Crawl also notes that
the current name connotes a sense of
inferiority. ''We're Koffee Too. The 'too'
is altnost diminutive
like we're the little
brother or sister," he says.

The new name should also reflect the
store's changing identity. Koffee Too?'s
ambiance is a bit like a European· cafe's;
it attracts the man in a beret sipping his
coffee while reading three newspapers,
the rnusic major furiously scribbling
notes on a taff, and students like Kyle
Wilmoth, who returns to K2 because the
"coffee's good and it's close to where I
work." However, as the contest fliers
suggest, I<offee Too? now wants to be
known as a shop that serves "Koffee With
a Konscience." As the shop has long
been an environmental pioneer (they're
one of few stores that use biodegradable
cold
cups),
envit;onmentally-centered
submissions like "Just · Grounds" or
"Green Bean" are particularly apropos.
"We have a new roaster, Dillanos in
Seattle," says Wilkinson, "All of our coffee
is traded fairly and certified organic." A
. name that reflects this commitment to
the environment and · issues of justice
might also link K2, at least in spirit, to the
sustainability initiatives within Yale and
the greater New Haven area.

A few clever submissions, however,
may lead I<offee Too? to change course.
Instead
of
boasting
environmental
prowess, the new name would link
the shop closer to Yale. For instance,
Skull and Beans, one graduate student's
submission, establishes a connection
between the store and the masses of
over:-caffeinated, occasionally studious
Yalies that fill it (even if they're just there
·for the free Wi-Fi and comfy chairs).
Tying the name into Yale could have a
tremendous impact on the business side as
well. "Many people come to New Haven
to see Yale," Crawl explains. "It might
be possible to tap into that." Crawl also
cites · the "merchandizing potential" of a
Yale-infused name. ''We could play into
the iconography," he says. But there are
some dissenters. "I really don't like when
people or the local businesses conform
to Yale," comments Tess Dearing, a
Berkeley junior and K2 regular, and
also an editor of this magazine. "I find
the Yaleness overwhelming, unnatural,
stilted." Another daily K2 consumer puts
it more bluntly: "That will just be selling
out." No matter the winning submission,
Yale will be intrinsically connected to the
new name. After all, the University has
to approve it. While the staff of Koffee
Too? voted for their favorites last week,
Yale owns the building and has veto
rights over the name.

Luckily, there were many submissions
to choose from. And the impulse to
submit often stemmed from more than
just the free coffee. Davenport senior and
• •
prolific submitter Mary Daniel explains,
"It would be cool to walk by everyday
and see the name I submitted. Especially
as a senior, it would be nice to have part
of me remain in New Haven." And, in
a competitive atmosphere like Yale, there
was a desire to improve upon those
submissions already in the box. Daniel
first decided to submit because she
peeked at the other entries and thought
"I could do better." While a few diehards
decided looking at submissions would
stifle their creativity, Daniel and many
others leafed through the box, searching
for names to improve upon and laughing
at a few submissions that were "not so
good."

Good,
bad
for
current
customers, the actual name is unimportant.
While there is the occasional zealot, most
patrons are, like Kyle Wilmoth, "not
really concerned." As long the coffee
stays good, it doesn't matter whether it
comes from Koffee Too?, Tracy's Place,
or Ground Central.

It may be that the act of change itself
reflects K2's identity more than any new
name will. Crawl explains that Koffee
Too? "has a tradition of revitalization;
updating image; staying fresh." At one
point, for instance, the walls of the shop
were mauve or tan, "but we came back
from winter break one year and they were
suddenly blue. And now they're orange
with murals."

But innovation breeds resistance.
Littered among the novel suggestions in
the box by the cash register were pleas
that the name be unchanged. Many
proposals, like "e=_k2," "Kup of Koffee,"
and "Kafenation," paid homage to the
current name. Some were more direct.
As one submission put it, "New name:
'Koffee Too?' Reason: 'I like this name."'
-Sarah
utman
....
Illustrations f?y Ali 5 eitz ·
'IHE NEW JOURNAL



**Ulysses fan finds home in play**
**Author: Laura Yao**
**Page number(s): 9**

.. · . ... . '
. .
.. ,. .
~- -:-.:-:-
·"·'
.·:-.
'·'-'-
~--·,·
. ·-:-: ':
: ·. . ..
-~---- ........ ~ ..
·.
Ufysses fan finds~home in play.
By
uraYao
orne years ago, in late December, a little boy of four confided in his mother that he knew where his Christmas present had
come from. "It came from Santa Claus," he said. His mother was amused. ''And how do you know that?" she asked. The boy
answered, "I saw it in his shop."
Richard Stack laughs
a great, hiccupping sound
as he tells the story in his mild English accent. Though the toy store owner's
physique
his windswept white hair, his lively laugh, his Clausian girth
certainly invites the comparison, he doesn't encourage it.
He's never worn a red suit for the holidays, and he flatly refuses to carry seasonal toys in his store because, in his own, delicate words,
''You go to the drugstqre for that shit."
The Toystore on Audubon, known to regular customers as "Richard's Place," is crammed floor-to-ceiling with neon plush and
plastics. Stack's desk, which also serves as a checkout counter, is shoved into a corner and buried under an old PC and tumbling piles
of paper. The disheveled man with an uncensored sense of humor seems incongruous among the frilly dolls and brightly colored
building blocks. He's constantly knocking things over as he lumbers through the aisles, but he remains nonplussed. "Do you know
how often that happens in this store?" he asks no one in particular, as a stand of hand puppets crashes to the floor behind him. The
jungle of toys gives the place a certain flair, but Stack insists that the chaos is not by design. "I am, I confess, no businessman at all,"
he says. "Business is a pain in the ass."
9



**Title: Toystore on Audubon**
**Author: Laura Yao**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
A brightly-colored mural of children at play greets visitors to the Toystore on 
Audubon.  A mere ten years ago, Stack was anything 
but a businessman. He had just quit his job 
as a literature professor at SUNY, where 
he had been one of the college's founding 
members. "I had a sense that if I stayed 
there, I was going to go on doing exactly 
the same thing for the rest of my life, and 
I said, 'Oh, fuck that."' The bibliophile 
moved his family to New Haven because 
he loved the Elm City's library, and, for a 
time, he kept himself busy with scholarly 
work. When he became a grandfather, he 
suddenly realized that the city so well-
equipped for the ivory tower was lacking 
in plastic castles. New Haven didn't have 
a single toy store. "The idea that the only 
place people could go to get toys was to the


mass market was really repulsive," Stack 
says. "I found myself running screaming 
out of those places. So I thought, 'What 
the fuck?"' And Toystore on Audubon was 
born. 
We're outside smoking cigarettes as 
he remembers all the people he has been. 
In his going-on-seventy years, he has 
leapt between homes and identities as 
effortlessly as his favorite toy, the flexible 
wooden Voila doll, might be made to leap 
across imaginary stages. A toy store owner 
and a .teacher were the last two things he 
expected to be. "I thought I would be a 
chemist," he muses. "Or an actor." 
Born in Switzerland and raised in 
Montreal, Stack went to college in London 
to study chemistry at the University. He 
worked part-time in a research lab, a job 
for which he remains grateful. ''As a kid, 
I thought I was a chemist. When I went 
to work for this big corporation called 
Glaxo," he snorts, ''I rapidly discovered 
that I was not a chemist." 
It was also in London that he 
discovered the theater, his next great love. 
"I had the mad idea that any cultivated 
person would've seen everything that's 
on, so I saw everything that was on. Of 
course, my chemistry studies suffered 
somewhat." The theater followed him to 
Trinity College, where he studied literature 
and directed the first productions of 
Eugene Ionesco and Jean Genet seen in 
Dublin. Remembering the city in the late 
fifties, he laughs. "It was a piss." 
Dublin was where he fell in love two 
more times: with James Joyce's Ufysses and 
with his first wife. Though he's no longer 
married to the latter, he still maintains 
that Joyce is the greatest writer and most 
remarkable person to ever live. At the time, 
U fysses was banned, and therefore coveted. 
''Ah, it's a wicked, horrible, dirty book," 
Stack says with a relish you wouldn't expect 
of a shop-owner whose main clientele 
is under the age of ten. ''You bought it 
under the table, or in Paris, or whatever. 
It was a blast." 
As for the wife, he flew to New York 
to marry her at the age of 22, and when 
he got off the plane he had the uncanny 
feeling that he .was coming home. ''I had 
been abroad all my life," he says, "and 
in 
ew York, everyone is abroad." They 
moved to Stanford for graduate school,


One of Richard Stacks' favorite toys is the cat •a •pult, which, perfectly placed, will launch a series \J.I. plastic felines into the air. 

but eventually made their way back to the 
City, where he married his · second wife. 
"She was a student of mine," he says. 
"I mean, no hanky-panky, but when she 
heard my marriage had disintegrated in 
the '70s 
as most marriages did 
she 
looked me up, and we got along." 
These days, Stack still dabbles in 
scholarly work. He runs an on-line course 
on U!Jsses, and he did a recording of the 
novel for a local TV station .. He will 
catechize about the book to anyone who's 
interested. "It's the only book you can 
study down to the last detail, and it repays; 
it's so rich, so difficult, so completely 
responsible 
and funny, terribly funny!" 
he says. He acts out a scene for me (it's 
a hot day; Bloom is reaching covertly for 
a card stuck in his hat; "Calypso") and 
his laugh is an uproarious staccato that 
echoes in the quiet street. "U!Jsses," he 
says, "is a wonderful toy." 
He also helps international students 
with their dissertations; the papers on his 
desk inside the store belong to Wang Ao, 
a Chinese graduate student writing _about 
late Tang poetry. We talk about China 
for a bit. Though I hold the advantage 
of having been born there, he has a 
knowledge of Chinese history much 
vaster than m y own. He reads history 
voraciously, even more so than fiction 
or poetry. He has created a program to 
address female illiteracy in developing 
countries, which he regards as a wildly 
underappreciated issue . at the heart of 
the AIDS crisis, underdevelopment, and 
unrest in the Muslim world. He asks me 
my major; when I tell him it's Economics 
and Math, he quizzes me about the GDP, 
the national debt, and the growth of 
Yale's endowment. 
I remark that he seems to know a 
lot about eve 
· g, Stacks thinks for a 
while. "Yes, I suppose I do," he agrees. 
Ironically, it's children and business that 
he claims to know the least about. In fact, 
he seems to run Toystore on Audobon 
based on literary principles. When the 
phone rings and a woman asks whether 
the store carries porcelain dolls, he 
recommends what he says is a figure out 
of Henry James: a doll who looks like "a 
rather hopeful young lady just selling out 
for Paris looking for a husband, with her 
wardrobe and a little music bo.x to keep 
her amused on her journey." 
The intellectual toy store owner 
could easily play the part of a Yale 
professor, but he's suspicious of his 
New Haven neighbor. A crusader for 
the authentic and the unconventional, 
he finds the collegiate setting unnaturally 
restrictive. "The competitiveness of the 
undergraduate world has resulted in 
an unfortunate situation where all the 
smarty-pants are in one place," says this 
man, whose willingness to change course, 
to live Without a plan, might seem foreign 
to many Yale students. "I think that's not 
healthy." Stacks is also critical of what he 
calls "a particular kind of smarty-pants ... 
people who are very good at getting good 
grades and SATs and that sort of thing." 
To him, these students, consumers in 
an emerging mass market of education, 
represent a sort of commodification of 
learning. I can't imagine anything could 
be more repugnant to Stack, who reminds 
me that his store is not about learning to 
be a consumer but is about learning to 
play. In this statement, the pieces of this 
human puzzle come together. Finally, 
Stack stacks up. Like U!Jsses' protagonist 
Stephen Dedalus, Stack is, in the words 
of his favorite author, "not born to be a 
teacher." Like the character from whom 
he continues to learn, he is "a learner 
rather." 
. 
Laura Y ao is a junior in Jonathan Edwards 
College. 



--- Page 12 ---

**Yale's Dining Hall Dilemma: A Decade of Change**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
decade sUnce l:ale bUred 
to 
.run 
its 
dining 
halls, 
the American love 
affair 
with corporate efficiency has turned 
sour. En.ron and Martha Stewart have 
poisoned our infatuation with Sam's 
Club and Big Macs as documentary after 
documentary has made us squirm in ou.r . 
Gap cotton. But luckily for its executives, 
corporate America has found the ticket 
to .redemption. Now, for every celebrity 
"going green," a massive corporation 
has announced its own sustainability · 
1rut1at1ve. 
In 2005, General Electric launched 
its "EcomagUnation" program promoting 
economically advantageous greenhouse 
gas .reduction. In February, Wal-Ma.rt 
unveiled its "Sustainability 360" project, 
which will prioritize sustainable products, 
.renewable energy, and waste .reduction. 
And on September 27m, Duke announced 
its new Corporate Sustainability Initiative, 
a research program co-operated by the 
University's business and environmental 
schools. 
l:ale 
University, 
which employed 
11,7 50 people and earned a 28 percent 
return on its $22.5 billion endowment Un 
the last fiscal year, is keeping up with the 
(Dow) Joneses. In June, l:ale decided to 
terminate its ten year relationship with 
Corporation, the world's 
tbUrd-la.rgest 
food 
service 
provider, 
in order to return to a self-operated 
Dining Services that will focus heavily 
on integrating the v:alues of the l:ale 
Sustainable Food Project into students' 
dining experience. This decision is one of 
many leading l:ale down the increasingly 
fashionable path of sustainability and 
ethical busUness leadership. 
tudent FUnancial and Administrative 
........ Services assumed joint control of 
l:ale University Dining Services when the 
University hired 
in 1997, 
and Ernst Huff, associate vice president 
of SFAS, has closely collaboration with 
the corporation ever sUnce. He says that 
Yale, hoping to reverse Dining Services' 
tendency to run a negative budget, was 
originally 
attracted 
"bottom-line"-management style. 
This methodology had its business 
benefits. In Huff's unsmiling, professional 
's 
two 
greatest 
op1n1on, 
October 2007 
accomplishments during its time at Yale 
were greater oversight of the cooking 
process, which was "not an exact science 
prior to 
" and improved 
inventory management in 
individual 
dining halls. All 1 7 of them. 
Yale's 
residential 
college 
systern, 
which is pitched as a distinctive strength 
to prospective . students, also makes it 
difficult for the University to feed its 
flocks once they enroll. In addition to 
Commons, five graduate school dining 
rooms, and four separate retail facilities, 
l:ale must staff eleven residential college 
dining halls. (One is off-line each year 
as the colleges are renovated). This 
feat requires 350 full-time-equivalent 
employees, not to mention managers and 
administrators. SUnce l:ale employees are 
unionized under Local35, the University 
does not have the option of cutting labor 
costs. 
"There are very few variables that you 
can manipulate within Dining Services," 


Huff explains. "Employee salaries are 
successful 
partnership 
with 
Yale 
University," wrote 
's Director 
of Communications Karen Cutler Un a 
statement about the Yale-A 
partnership. "Since 1997, A ... '-.L 
has 
developed, 
implemented 
and 
continuously enhanced l:ale's residential, 
retail and catering programs, resulting in 
increased customer satisfaction, revenue 
growth and operational improvements." 
Though dining administrators and 
workers 
both praised 
RK's 
effect on l:ale's finances, long-term Yale 
managers and employees underwent a 
rocky transition to A 
's bottom-
line policy, which resulted in frequent 
complaints of food shortages. "In some 
cases 
there were challenges," Huff 
admits, referring to accusations of short-
ordering. It took time for A 
RK 
management to become familiar with 
Yale's consumption patterns. Hired to 
reduce Yale's food budget, they often 
took the "less is more" approach when 
ordering food. 
{ 
e ore 
came) we 
more vane 
J we never ran out o 
J 
zt wasn t c 
a 
t 
JJ 
n 
e
set by the bargaining agreement. We 
have very little flexibility there ... the only 
real flexibility there is with food and 
management labor." 
brought 
corporate 
efficiency to l: ale's 
inventory 
system. With an empire managing food 
services at over four hundred colleges, 
universities, and preparatory schools, the 
company immediately instituted thorough 
and regular inventories of Yale's dining 
halls. Ordering policies shifted in a way 
that many long-term l:ale employees had 
never seen before, and managers were 
forced to plan ahead. Under the self-
operated Dining Services, if a college 
ran out of lettuce or milk, it 
could often 
be delivered that day from a nearby Yale 
commissary at Long Wharf. 
eliminated this expensive warehouse, 
however, and required managers to order 
in advance. 
is proud of 
• lts 
n rea 
n zns 
And when the food arrived, not 
everyone was happy with its quality. The 
biannual customer satisfaction surveys 
that 
instituted on arrival 
garnered consistently low ratings during 
the corporation's first four years at Yale. 
"Before 
came, 
we 
had more variety," remembers Andrea 
Rankins, a ten-year Saybrook employee. 
''We never ran out of food. And it wasn't 
chicken all the time." 
Other dining ha11 workers equate 
the 
years with a string of 
indistinguishable managers. 
filled most managerial positions with its 
own staff, shifting them from college 
to college and tightening control over 
employees. 0' eal Galloway, a grill 
worker who has been a member of 
Calhoun College's team for 16 years, 
remembers only a single manager in the 
college dining hall during his six years 
before 
arrived. Since then, 


--- Page 14 ---

-
he can count ten, maybe twelve. 
Though Huff could not provide up-
to-date numbers of original Yale managers 
versus managers · hired by 
last year he told the Yale Daify News that 
about half of Dining Services' employees 
were 
. Since Local 35 fills 
all 
non-management positions, 
these 
non-union 
A 
employees 
have a near-monopoly on Yales dining 
management jobs. 
· At the Saybrook dining hall, Rankins 
and Linda Felder, who have worked for 
Dining Services since 1985, could together 
name only two Yale managers who'd been 
around before A 
. "This dining 
hall hasn't been run well since Marie," 
Rankins confides, referring to the Yale 
manager 
moved to a different 
dining hall during its transition years. 
Felder agrees. "The Yale managers 
were better," she asserts. "Some of these, 
they don't know what they're doing." 
Calhoun's 
Galloway 
also - harbors 
fondness for the original Yale managers. 
"The Yale management," he reminisces, 
'ur'hey 
seem 
like 
they 
have 
more 
compassion, because they used to work 
like us." When 
manager after 
14 
manager strode through · 
doors, 
felt 
this 
familiarity disappear. "They just seem like 
roqots," he says. Lowering his voice and 
moving his arms like an automaton, he 
imitates his perception of the 
mentality: "Like, 'We're gonna turn this 
thing around."' The new managers, 
charged to increase efficiency, assigned 
more work in the same number of hours, 
affecting employees in every dining hall. 
Yolanda Barnes, a friendly fixture 
at the Calhoun desk since well before 
..._..'U. ......... LL RK arrived, uses the same word 
to describe A 
managers: "It 
seems like when 
RK came, they 
operated more like a machine, like a robot. 
That humanness was missing." 
announced 
decision 
split from 
in June, but 
the company will not officially leave 
until 
February; Yale's 
contract with 
prohibits the University from 
offering jobs to 
managers 
until three to six months after contract 
termination notice, and 
is 
helping to ease Yale through the initial 
transition period. 
wil1 be given ~e option to stay at Yale or 
' . 
follow 
< somewhere else, and, 
though many have not yet decided which 
path to pursue, both Galloway and Barnes 
have noticed a positive change in dining 
hall management this year. They say that 
original Yale managers, as well as some 
ones, have already begun to 
scale back employee duties. 
Huff admits that managerial turnover 
was a problem during 
transition to Yale. Two years after the 
company arrived, Huff explains, many 
Yale managers who'd been needing "a 
nudge" left Yale and were replaced by 
employees. This turnover 
was echoed at the highest administrative 
level as Dining Services cycled through 
three executive directors in ten years. 
Yale administrators, however, were not 
.... 
unhappy with 
. To increase 
efficiency and save money, employees 
must work harder. Products must be 
regulated more closely. These are golden 
rules in the bottom-line business, as Sam 
Walton and Richard Levin well know. Yale 
hired 
to cut costs, and it did. 
In 2005, 
earned a $20,000 
incentive fee, written into its contract with 
Yale, for completing a fiscal year below 


--- Page 15 ---

budget. 
ale 
wasn't the 
only institution 
turning to 
< to cut 
costs in the past decade. Former Florida 
Governor Jeb Bush hired the company to 
reduce the prison payroll during the 2001 
privatization of the state prison system. 
Within a year, the state was levying 
l..J..•.LL RK with $110,000 in fines 
backed by accusations of food p·oisoning, 
sanitation violations, and drops in food 
quality and quantity. 
also a leader in uniforms, 
facilities management, hospitality services, 
and concessions, has achieved much of its 
success through international expansion. 
Like many other corporations 
Yale itself it is now setting its sights on 
China and other developing countries. 
was recently chosen by 
a Chinese company to provide food 
services for the 2008 Olympics in Beijing, 
and this year, CEO Joseph Neubauer 
took the company private for the hefty 
sum of $8.3 million. 
· 
At Yale, 
cutthroat 
corporate success has been a constant, 
nagging reminder of the company's 
raison d'etre: its own profit. Though few 
.;·: 
..... :;. 
care to speak of it openly, several Yale 
sources referenced exclusive purchasing 
agreements with food purveyors that 
benefited 
<. 
rather 
than 
guaranteeing Yale the best products at the 
lowest prices. Huff says he has not heard 
of any such arrangements. 
Trumbull Manager Edd Ley, who 
began working at Yale in 1970, oversaw 
Dining Services' purchases at the Long 
Wharf Commissary before 
eliminated the storehouse and reassigned 
him to Trumbull. Ley, who loves dining 
and loves Yale, was happy to be back in 
the trenches. "Doing business under the 
realm of the contractor was different," he 
says, "but it was still about serving." When 
pressed to speak about the difference 
between a self-operated Dining er vices 
and an 
-operated Dining 
Services, Ley raises his e ebrows and 
asks, "Do you want somebod else to 
raise your children?" 
o matter how well 
Yale worked together 
and according to 
Ley, it was pretty well 
was 
till a third party. With the new turnover 
in management, Ley hope "it'll be Yale 
taking care of Yale." He remembers 
previous 
self-operated Dining 
Services with pride. ''When we operated 
as an independent, we always wanted the 
best product at the best price, and that 
was always reflected in the invoice." 
the past four years, Yale has 
reconsidered its definition 
of the "best product." Before 2001, 
when the University founded the Yale 
Sustainable Food Project with the help 
of world-renowned chef Alice Waters, 
the best apple might have been from a 
large, Oregonian mass production farm 
in California. Now, the best apple is local 
and sustainable, grown on a family-run 
orchard 26 miles from Yale. 
By the time Y FP inaugurated its 
local, seasonable, and sustainable menu 
at the Berkeley "test kitchen" in 2003, 
Dining 
ervices had already begun to 
prioritize higher quality food, Huff says. 
"The existing objective was now coupled 
~ .. 
. 
~ 
,, 
w1tn an IDtngw.t:)g proJect. 
Since then, 
Yale Dining 
Services, and the Sustainable Food 
Project have worked together to bring 
high quality, economical food to the Yale 
campus. 1dina Shannon-DiPietro, YSFP 
15 



**Title: Yale's Sustainable Food Project**
**Author: Nicole Allan**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Andrea Rankins has worked in the Say-
brook dining hall for ten· years. 
co-d.i.rector, is all smiles and as she talks 
about celebrity chef Jacques Pepin training 
Yale chefs in 2004 or about YSFP's lofty 
goals of community and "incredibly good 
food." But when asked about introducing 
these goals to an 
<.-run Dining 
Services, she speaks slowly, carefully. 
'~nytime you shift a vision, it's going 
to be . challenging~" Shannon-DiPietro 
says. '~d A 
. 
RI<. central was not 
reinforcing the values we were trying to 
institute at Yale." 

As Yale has been at the vanguard · 
of sustainable institutional dining for 
the past six years, it is no surprise that 
took a while to catch up. 

For a corporation at the forefront of 
the outsourcing movement, the idea of 
prioritizing sustainable farming practices 
over bottom-line prices must have seemed 
a bit counterintuitive. 

As YSFP's influence spread beyond the 
Berkeley dining hall to every kitchen at Yale, 
both the University and 
staff 
were forced to adapt to new perspectives 
on purchasing and cooking food. YSFP 
traveled to Philadelphia for annual Dining 
Services staff training sessions at the 
headquarters. 
Shannon-
DiPietro says 
and YSFP 
split up training duties according to their 
respective strengths, with 
taking a larger role in management training 
and YSFP in food preparation. YSFP gave 
instructions on how to prepare seasonable 
items and taught cooks to taste food while 
preparing it 
"it's actUally really important 
to taste food before you serve it," Shannon-
DiPietro says with a laugh. 

YSFP's raw energy and momentum, 
which has remained in step with a national 
trend toward organic and sustainable 
restaurants, grocery stores, and farms, 
gave Yale's Dining Services a much-needed 
jolt. Even before YSFP arrived, Huff 
says, Dining Services had realized that it 
needed to step up its focus on food quality, 
but its partnership with . ARAMARI<. 
did not provide many · opportunities for 
mnovatl.on. 

''When ·YSFP ·came along," Huff 
says, "I felt the support and creativity for 
that, and the energy behind that, was not 
ARAMARK." Despite initial challenges, 
YSFP's values quickly infiltrated Dining 
Services. Prior to the 2006-2007 school 
year, Dining Services rewrote its entire 
menu, including non-YSFP items. ''We 
thought, 'Why focus only on quality as 
defined by YSFP?"' Huff remembers. 

Eventually, Dining Services felt that, 
due both 
to · A 
RK's 
financial 
management 
and 
YSFP's 
culinary 
leadership, it was time to return to a self-
operated system. "Dining Services had 
gotten to a certain level," Huff explains. 
" 
RK. had contributed greatly to 
ustazna 
zs 
never 
will be YSFP recipes." In September of 
this year, the number of these items was 
expanded to stock four meals per week, 
but transition-related budget concerns 
brought this trial to a temporary halt. In 
anticipation of a new, self-operated Dining 
Services, Huff told the Yale Dai!J News, 
he and his colleagues must be prudent in 
balancing cost and quality. 

ale's reincarnated dining system is 
still waiting for its leader. Yale has 
hired OPUS International, a Philadelphia 
headhunting firm, to conduct a national 
search for a new executive director of 
Dining Services. Six ·candidates visited 
campus at the beginning of October, Huff 
reports, and the search committee hopes 
to make a final decision by Thanksgiving. 

Until this decision is made, it is hard to 
predict the precise direction a self-operated 
Dining Services will take. 

'When I think of what Dining Services 
needs 
right 
now," 
Shannon-DiPietro 
says, ''I think of a really dynamic Dining 
Services leader." 

Both 
she 
Huff 
stress 
the 
importance of an executive director who 
balances effective, efficient management 
with good food. Now that Yale University 
Dining 
Services, 
like 
thousands of 
national corporations, is 
shifting its 
zncreaszn 
tren _J 
an 
institution 
to 
e 
uslj 
as ta 
n note. 
this level, but I wasn't convinced they were 
going to take us much further than we 
already we:re." 

Huff is determined to maintain an 
independen~ high-quality Dining Services 
that will work in conjunction with YSFP to 
bring aspects of the local and sustainable 
food movement to the Yale campus. 

YSFP has made impressive strides in the 
past years, introducing organic honey 
and yogurt and fair trade coffee, bananas, 
and chocolate, as well as one all-YSFP 
meal per week, in all of Yale's residential 
colleges, and Huff sees this expansion as 
an ongoing Dining Services /YSFP effort. 

Huff says he can see where the Food 
Project is going. 'We're going to agree 
on some percent of the menu items that 
priorities from cost-culling to ethical and 
sustainable business practices, experience 
with sustainability and food preparation is 
invaluable in a leader. Huff wants someone 
who is not only a manager but also a food-
lover. He and Shannon-DiPietro, both 
heavily involved in the search process, have 
been extremely pleased with the candidates 
so far. Once Yale appoints a new head of 
Dining Services and 
officially 
departs, Yale dining will have to decide 
just how financially sustainable sustainable 
food can be. 


As Shannon-DiPietro and her co-
director, Josh Viertel, are well aware, 
sustainability is increasingly trendy, and 
Yale, never an institution to be left in 
the dust, has taken note. In 2004, the


University appointed its first susta1nability 
director. One year later, it created the 
Office of Sustainability 
recently moved 
to an environmentally-conscious space 
equipped with "daylight tubes," motion-
sensor lights, and reclaimed wood floors,-
to coordinate the University's efforts in 
renewable energy, waste reduction, and 
environmentally responsible renovation 
construction. 

In 
2005, 
Yale's 
Greenhouse Gas Reduction Committee 
declared a goal of reducing Yale's 
emissions by 10 percent below 1990 levels 
by 2020 
or roughly 43 percent below a 
business-as-usual, base-case scenario. 

So far, the University has made 
progress toward this goal through greener 
renovations, 
motion-sensor 
lighting 
in college common spaces, and the 
appointment of a director of sustainable 
transportation systems. Students have 
shown 
support 
in 
well-established 
groups like the Student Taskforce for 
Environmental Partnership 
Yale Student Environmental Coalition. 

Sustainably Thinking, a new student 
organization, will provide big-picture 
advice to the other groups on campus. 

As more and more consumers demand 
to know where their food comes from, the 
voice of the Yale Sustainable Food Project 
is no longer a sage in the wilderness .. 

Now, Yale University Dining Service's 
rejection of the corporate machine for 
community-based management will be 
reflected in its kitchens, as cooks forgo 
sacks of dehydrated potato powder for 
fresh Yukon Golds, mashed by hand and 
flavored with extra virgin olive oil, garlic, 
and whole peppercorns. In this sense, 
the new, self-operated Dining Services 
appears to be no more than an attempt 
to follow corporate America's latest 
sustainability trend. But we started it . 
-
TN 
Nicole Allan, a junior in Calhoun College, is a 
Managing Editor of TN]. 
October 2007 


**Title: Gastronomique: Gourmet Take-Out**
**Author:  (Not specified)**
**Page number(s): 18**

'ow would you like your steak 
cooked?" asks an employee at 
Gasttonomique, 
though 
it's a question you'd expect to hear 
pronounced in a French accent at a fancy 
bistro! du coin, the woman taking the order is 
communicating with her customer over the 
telephone. "Come by in about 15 minutes," 
she adds before returning the receiver 
to its cradle. When the customer arrives 
to pick up his steak frites, the epicurean 
entree awaits him on the small countertop 
that comprises most of Gasttonomique's 
surface area. It's packaged in a styrofoam 
box, and, like every order here, it's to go. 

In front of a sizzling stove in a hole-in-
the-wall shop on the corner of High and 
Crown, a man dressed in a white undershirt 
flips a succulent patty. His solid build and 
dark coloring make him look more mob 
boss than head chef, yet this could-be 
cousin of Tony Soprano is sweating at 
the fires of a double burner, not a double 
arson. 

Mark 
Woll, 
Gasttonomique's 
founder and chef, is in the middle of a job. 
And right now, his concerns are culinary, 
not convivial. 

''A lot of customers expect me to smile 
and be nice to them," Woll says, mopping 
his brow. ''But a surgeon wouldn't talk 
while operating." Despite the unseasonably 
warm weather, it's about ten degrees 
hotter inside Gastronomique than outside. 
Though the restaurant has only two chairs, 
it's two too many for the space. The seats, 
like the tastefutblack and white photos of 
the Eiffel tower that hang on the walls, are 
really just for ambiance. Gastronomique is 
take-out, gourmet take-out. Walk-ins are 
welcome, and slightly more experienced 
customers know to call ahead. But the 
Gastro add!cts 
the regulars, many of 
whom are off-campus Yalies, none of 
whom can exhaust the shop's exhaustive 
menu 
are on the meal plan. 



**Gastronomique: A Yale Student Meal Plan and More**
**Author: Taura Zax**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
Gastronomique's meal plan costs 
fifty dollars per week for five meals, each 
defined as ·either one entree or three 
smaller dishes, such as soups, salads, and 
sides. For a single, crisp Ulysses S. Grant, 
enjoy five Crispy Salmon Steaks over 
creamy risotto. Any menu item is game, 
• except for the 17 -dollar, twelve ounce 
steak frites. A customer who ordered the 
Sesame Crusted Tuna, the menu's second 
most expensive item, for each of his five 
meals could save $32.50 
about forty 
percent 
over the course of the week. 

Though the deal doesn't compare to a 
Happy Meal (and the wait is substantially 
longer than under the Golden Arch), a 
Big Mac has nothing on Gastro's popular 
Crusty Burger. "The Crusty Burger is one 
of the best burgers in town," said Paul 
Schneider, a senior in Trumbull, who lives 
off-campus and is on the Gastro meal plan. 
Plus, the ten-dollar-per-meal deal easily 
trumps the rate of Yale University Dining 
Service, which charges $13.25 for dinner. 
"Compared to the Yale meal plan, it's a 
lot cheaper," said Schneider, who insists 
that his connection to Gastronomique 
"makes the neighborhood feel more 
cohesive." 

While all of the nearly thirty people on 
the Gastronomique meal plan this fall are 
Yalies 
and the service is even billed as 
a "student meal plan" on the restaurant's 
quaintly illustrated take-out menu 
Woll 
emphasizes that the program is not 
exclusively for students; nor is it extended 
only to those affiliated with and employed 
-
by Yale; nor even only to those employed 
at all. "I once had a homeless person on 
the plan," explained Woll, who would 
cash the man's government checks weekly 
in exchange for five gourmet meals. "I'd 
feed him steak." When the loyal customer 
was released seven months after ending up 
in jail mid-week, Woll prepared the meals 
the man had paid for but not eaten. 

"I relate to underdogs," said Woll, 
obliquely alluding to past struggles of 
his own. Yet the laminated newspaper 
clippings that decorate one of the bistro's 
few inches of unused surface area belie 
the notion that Woll has ever been an 
underdog himsel£ In one he is pictured, 
debonair, seated at a table with New 
Haven's most celebrated restaurateurs, 
owners of the swank eats Zinc, Ibiza, and 
Scoozzi. 

October 2007 
Gastronomique is the first restaurant 
that Woll himself has owned, though his 
knack for nosh goes all the way back to 
his childhood kitchentable. "My mother 
would overcook the vegetables, overcook 
the meat," he said. "I would tell her 
'You're burning out all of the nutrients!" 
s ~ so i 
community members have elite taste 
buds but too much on their plate to dine 
out or cook in. From chicken cordon bfeu 
to steak frites, Gastronomique offers an 
extensive menu of sophisticated dishes, 
all of them prepared in a space no larger 
than a Jonathan Edwards single. 

In his teens, Woll attended a trade school 
and specialized in culinary arts. He then 
studied at the Culinary Institute of 
America before doing an externship in 
Europe and working under esteemed 
French chefs in New York City. Mid-
career, in the summer of 2001, a tragic 
motorcycle accident left Woll in a coma 
for three months. Woll slept through both 
planes hitting, both towers falling. When 
he finally woke up, a lot had changed. "I 
decided I didn't want to work for anyone 
else anymore," Woll explained. And so 
began Gastronomique. 

Woll's blueprint for the restaurant 
was very different from his final product. 
His initial vision was a modest one: to be 
a juice vendor on a well-trafficked Elm 
City street corner. "I got turned on by 
an industrial juicer," Woll says, waxing 
poetic 
even borderline pornographic-
~ 
as he describes falling in love with the 
machine. ''The concept of extracting a 
sweet liquid from a hard solid touched 
me." The notion of being at the mercy 
of New England's formidable climate, 
however, was less appealing. So, Woll 
scoped out downtown real estate and 
indulged his tendency toward ambition 
and innovation. 

The very concept of Gastronomique, 
whose epithet "Gourmet take-out'' is a 
seeming oxymoron, is a novel one. It's 
high-quality output with a minimum of 
input, like acing a test without making 
flash cards or looking good in sweatpants 
and a t -shirt. The concept is ingenious 
for a university town, where many 
e couszn o 
at t: e 
res 
e arson. 

"Restaurateurs come in here and say 
'Oh my God. This guy puts out a huge 
menu, and he's in a closet,"' Woll says 
with a proud smile. And it's true. Out of 
what Woll optimistically calls a "small-
rent" and what others might label an 
aromatic shoebox, Gastro serves light 
and hearty salads, nearly ten kinds of 
sandwiches, 
make-your-own 
b11rgers, 
eight different entrees, a slew · of side 
dishes, and a handful of desserts. Not to 
mention a page worth of fruit juice and 
energy shake offerings, the daily specials, 
and a chalkboard of crepes 
both savory 
and sweet. Oh, and brunch. 

A culinary trendsetter in many ways, 
Woll is not, however, the only restaurant 
owner in the area to offer breaks aimed at 
students. Many of New Haven's eateries 
cater to college-aged clientele trying to live 
cheaply. Both Au Bon Pain and Atticus 
give free handouts of their leftover baked 
goods when the stores close shop at the 
end of the business day, and students 
enjoy ten percent discounts at a handful 
of downtown restaurants if they can 
endure the shame of having their waiters 
examine 
the 
universally 
unattractive 
close-up headshots on Yale IDs. 

Yet Woll's motives are perhaps the 
most humanistic: ''I like people," he says. 
''I feel obligated to feed them." 
T aura Zax, a sophomore in Silliman College, is 
Research Director o/TNJ. 


**Renting Local in a Digital Age**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 20-21**

• • 
"Best Video?" Daniel's silver name tag 
catches the fluorescent lighting as he watches a customer 
shuffle out of Blockbuster into a drizzly October night, Blood Diamond in hand. ''Yeah, I know Best Video. It's up in Hamden." 

Ortiz, who finished high school and then started at Blockbuster 
"I like movies" 
is 22, with a fuzz of black beard, patchy in 
places, and the pale skin of a horror film devotee. (All-time favorites: Audition, The Exorcist, Fridqy the 1J'h.) ''Anytime someone comes 
in here asking for tapes, I send 'em there." He nods towards the seven thousand tape-free titles that fill·Blockbuster's aisles. "They're 
like the last bastion of VHS. They're still holdin' on." 

Best Video holds on in a quiet Hamden neighborhood tucked between downtown New Haven and strip-mall sprawl. Victorian-
20 
'IHE NEW JOURNAL 

style houses with trim lawns sandwich the 
store, and the closest other businesses are 
Walgreens ~nd Dairy Queen. Other than 
the name's claim, etched in red letters on 
a white sign, and the small, perpetually-
packed parking lot, nothing seen from 
the road intimates what lies within. 

Far from Blockbuster's light-up sign, 
on the same October night, a smattering 
of customers wanders through the aisles 
of Best Video's thirty thousand films. 
Section headings are a movie lover's 
dream. They range from the serious-
by director (Visconti, Bill Forsyth, Mel 
Brooks), 
by 
country 
(Argentinean, 
Balkan, · Cuban) 
to 
normative 
(Best Comedy, Best Low Budget, Best 
Oscar Losers) 
to the whimsical (Weird 
'60s, Fantasy Adventure, Sexploitation, 
Godzilla). 

Hank Paper, the founder and owner 
of Best Video whose sharp, vaguely 
mischievous face appears sketched on 
the orange "Hank's Pick" stickers that 
dot hundreds of DVD cases 
recalls a 
favorite anecdote: ''A group of Russians 
that came here once said there were more 
Russian films in the Russian section than 
in all of Moscow." (There are 144.) 

Since Hank opened Best Video with 
five hundred movies in 1984 ("it wasn't 
large in quantity," he says, "but deep in 
interest"), New Haven area residents 
have had two options for renting 
movies: Blockbuster and Best Video. 
But cookie-cutter operations have never 
threatened Hank's local gem. Leaving the 
wildly knowledgeable staff, astounding 
selection, and quirky personality of Best 
Video for a sterile wall of New Releases 
is like descending from cinephile Heaven 
to some big-budget purgatory. 

In the last few years, however, a bull 
has wandered into this small-town china 
shop. "This place has the atmosphere of 
an old New York bookstore," another 
employee named Hank H., the "other" 
Hank, tells me one afternoon. "It's a 
throwback." I nod, and feel the need to 
assure him my family has always been a 
Best Video member. ''It's important for 
people to realize," he conrinues, "'~at you 
can't get a sense of community without 
community ga~ering places." True. But 
this invocation of community space is a 
newer, subtler justification of Best Video's 
existence than the classic, underdog 
idealism of many small businesses. 

"So ... " I finally vepture, "Do you 
think some people have stopped coming 
to Best Video because of N etflix?" His 
warm face tightens for a moment. "Oh. 
Yeah. Definitely." I don't ask how many. 

ike, a big guy with a gray, scraggly 
ud and a puppy-dog smile, has 
worked at Best Video since he "put the 
first barcodes" on the first video boxes. 
In his spare time, Mike writes "The Black 
Maria," a blog named after Thomas 
Edison's first film studio. "They would 
turn the whole thing around to catch 
the sun," he explains of the studio, still 
amazed. "The entire thing was all covered 
in tar paper, and the ceiling would open 
to let in the light." Like Mike, most Best 
Video staffers know the minutiae of film 
history, or at least their favorite strains of 
it, inside and out. 

But Best Video itself is part of a 
different historical narrative: the short 
but ever-evolving story of how America 
consumes movies. When Hank Paper 
opened Best Video in 1984, VHS tapes, 
and the stores that rented them, were 
novelties. "I hear there are these places 
called video stores cropping up," Hank's 
father told him as his screenwriting career 
in Hollywood lost steam. "Why don't you 
check it out?" 

"The transition from Hollywood to 
private consumption was revolutionary," 
explains 
Richard, 
Best Video's no-
nonsense business manager. "25, 26, 27 
years ago, if you missed Casablanca in the 
movie theaters 
that was it." In the early 
'80s, major movie studios tried to ban 
VCRs by claiming~ copyright violation, 
incensed at a development that would, 
without doubt, permanently alter the role 
of the cinema in American life. They 
failed, and Best Video opened. "Young 
people take it for granted," Richard 
continues. "They watch DVDs on their 
computers and think nothing of it." 

etflix is a boon for discriminating 
movie lovers in the sticks. "The 
subscription has revolutionized our lives," 
Bill T. Jones, choreographer and director, 
volunteered recently to the New York 
Times Magazine about his TV-watching 
habits. 
''We've been having a kind of 
French-film festival around here lately. 
TRAVEL 



**Title: Best Video vs. Netflix**
**Author: Sophia LeaT**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I
!
We've also been looking· at documentaries
J d . 
" 
on u at.sm. 
. . 
Best Video, always in tune with its 
customers' needs, · has been running a 
similar mail-order service for years. In 
1994, four years before the birth of N etflix, 
Best Video shipped hundreds of titles a 
month to countries across the .world. Its 
service, however, can hardly compete with
<;me of the ten largest users of first-class 
we struggle to shed. 
In an age when 
r.eplication signals business success, Hank 
firmly insists there can only be one Best 
Video, and it can only be here. 
· "People 
from 
Hollywood, 
L.A., 
Washington, D.C., New York are always 
asking us to move or open another place," 
Hank admits as he stands behind the 
counter, leaning over a large paperback I 
assume is a movie encyclopedia, and later 
• 
avzn 
est 
z eo orasterz ewa 
ew 
e eases zs z 
eaven to some 
escen 
z e 
mail in America. 
Despite 
the 
company's 
brilliant 
capitalization on this at-your-doorstep 
concept, Netflix marks another step in 
our society's steady march toward perfect 
customization in perfect isolation. Cinema 
has become yet another area of modern 
life that we have divested of place, as if 
physical location were an archaic notion 
22 
u 
notice is the Old Testament. ''But we could 
never replicate what we have here. For one 
thing, I'm here." Even if the selection 
could be duplicated (which it couldn't), 
there's no carbon 
or electronic 
copy 
of Hank. 
And in a sentiment echoed by other 
Best Video staff members, Hank believes 
the particular character of the local 
• • 
community has allowed his store to thrive 
in a way it might not elsewhere. From 
the die-hard skateboarder looking for 
the latest cult hit to the academic couple 
on a Czech film kick, from the graduate 
student researching silent films to the 
huddle of gel-haired boys who just want 
to see Traniformers, Best Video and local 
residents hit it off a long time ago and have 
maintained a real friendship ever since. 
Of course, as a native of New Haven 
and 
longtime 
Best 
Video 
member, 
am 
inevitably 
recognized. Joseph 
LaPalombara, a retired Yale professor in 
political science, interrupts my browsing 
to ask my last name. Moments earlier he 
had instructed a staff member to "F8" 
-
him, referring to the button that brings up 
a customer's rental history, because he's 
"a little punchy" at this time of day and 
can't remember whether he's already seen 
The Lives of Others. He found Best Video 
the "day or week" it opened and has been 
renting about four films a week ever since. 
«You're Jonathan Lear's daughter?" he 
asks, looking at me again. ''I met you when 
you were this tall," he says, lowering his 
hand to about three feet off the ground. 


---

A few minutes later, Stewart, another 
longr itne Best Video patron, wrests from 
me that I am a senior English major 
with an uncertain future, and· then tells 
me he knows the exact film I have to 
see. Stewart, for his part, rents whatever 
movies his wife tells him to 
"she's 
from Harvard" 
although, in general, 
the couple favors a foreign sensibility. 
Standing under the Best Video awning, 
Stewart assumes the staff's proudest duty: 
recommending the perfect film you've 
never heard o£ 
'When people walk in here," Hank 
explains, "we don't say 'Oh, have you seen 
Knocked Up? It's great!' It did get good 
reviews. But we implicitly try to gauge 
your mood, your interests, and show you 
something you'd never find otherwise." 
Stewart looks at me, and smiles wryly. 
"It's called I Know Where I'm Going," he 
says. "See how especially for you ... ?" I 
do. It's a film, he tells me, about a young 
English woman in Post-War Europe 
October 2007 
who takes off for the Scottish Hebrides, 
because all the men have been killed, and, 
accompanied by a great Scottish tune, 
discovers a new life. "The word for it 
is sweet/' Stewart concludes. "It's a girl 
movie." I rent it, and Hank gives it to me 
free of charge. 
t Blockbuster, half an hour later, I 
~ 
ask Ortiz if he ever recommends 
movies. "Oh, yeah," he grins, '~ the 
time. I just ask people what they're in the 
mood for." A thought occurs to me. "I 
was wondering if you could recommend 
something for me. I'm looking for 
something sweet. A girl movie." I try not 
to elaborate. Ortiz's face drops for a split 
second, then lights up again. "How about 
The Holidtry?" Regrettably, I've seen it. 
"Oh, wait! Have you seen Knocked Up?, I 
tell him that sounds perfect. 
As I walk out, Ortiz is trying to assuage 
a customer on the phone. "I know, people 
come into the store yelling, 'Where's my 
on-line coupons!' 
and we've got no 
answer!" he sympathizes, twirling his 
fingers in the black telephone cord. "I'm 
sorry man, I'm as confused as you are." 
N etflix is clearly causing Blockbuster a 
headache all it's own. 
When I get home, I open N etflix 
and slowly type in "I Know Where I'm 
Going." Stewart told me at the height of 
his excitement that "no one else in the 
world has it," but slight hyperbole was 
certainly part of his charm. I hit return, 
and, of course, it's there. 
''Joan Webster (Wendy Hiller) is a 
headstrong young woman who travels to 
the bleak and moody Scottish Hebrides 
to marry a rich lord ... " I stare at the 
page for a moment, disappointed to have 
found it. But, really, who cares. Would an 
algorithm charting my preferences ever 
have led me to the film that's going to 
change my life? 
TN 
Sophia LeaTj a senior in E:{!a Stiles College, is 
a Senior Editor q[TNJ. 
23 




**Title: Yale Students in Cuba**
**Author: Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• • 
. 
Gerald McElroy visits the family of a Yale professor. Such connections are integral to the success of students' trips . 
or 
over 
an . hour, · Michael 
Fernandez '07 tries to describe 
why he won't go to Cuba. "It's like 
going to South Africa in the high part 
of Apartheid," he finally- says, finding 
the words to describe his conviction. "I 
would be contributing to sustaining a 
tyrannical _government. I wouldn't travel 
there." 
Fernandez's great-grandfather was 
stripped of eve 
· g he owned by 
Castro's regime. His grandmother fled 
Cuba for the United States thirty years 
ago. Fernandez refuses to forgive a 
government that continues to restrict 
the press, ban most private enterprise, 
and throw dissidents in jail. He echoes 
generations of Cuban exiles who have 
argued that any and all travel to Cuba 
bolsters 
the 
authoritarian 
regime. 
"Everything you spend contributes to the 
oppression of the people," Fernandez 
explains. "The money ends up in the 
hands of the state." 
This argument goes far in the United 
States. The economic embargo against 
Cuba has remained intact for nearly 
fifty years. President Clinton loosened 
restrictions on travel to Cuba for students 
and academics, artists, members of the 
clergy, and Cuban-Americans with family 
on the island. In 2004, however, Bush 
issued controversial guidelines restricting 
Cuban-Americans' family visits from 
once a year to once every three years. 
Less politicized but equally stringent 
were the President's restrictions on 
academic travel. 
Under the current 
• 
guidelines, 
undergraduates may visit 
Cuba only as independent researchers 
conducting work for a course, and must 
stay for a minimum of ten weeks. Class 
trips are banned. In 2001, sixty thousand 
undergraduates traveled to Cuba. That 
number has dwindled to well below 
one hundred. Yale is one of the few 
institutions that continues to send its 
students to th~. socialist state. 
Michael Bustamante traveled to Cuba 
· 2005, during the summer before 
his senior year. The things he carried were 
. . 
largely determined by necessity. Among 
the necessities or near necessities were a 
few thousand Canadian dollars in cash, 
an entire suitcase of antibiotics, cough 
syrup, toilet paper, and Pep to-Bismol,


Cubans stroll around a monument to the sunken Maine during the celebrations that allowed Bustamante to visit his family. 
a letter signed by his Yale advisor, and 
a copy of Yale's Treasury Department 
license permitting academic travel to 
Cuba. He carried Canadian cash because 
U.S. dollars are subject to a ten percent 
penalty when exchanged for the Cuban 
convertible peso. He carried an extra 
suitcase stuffed with toiletries because he 
knew he would have to share the wealth. 
He carried the letter from his advisor and 
the copy of Yale's license to demonstrate 
that his travel to Cuba was legal. 
Bustamante's 
letter 
verified 
his 
enrolhnent in an undergraduate degree 
program at Yale University. It confirmed 
the dates during which he would conduct 
research for a structured Yale course, and 
stated that he was traveling to Cuba under 
U.S. Treasury Department License No. 
October 2007 
CT-9259. The license, obtained by Yale 
Associate General Counsel Harold Rose, 
invests the Universi!_:y with the authority 
to approve research projects, and allows 
Yale students who meet the regulations to 
make travel-related transactions in Cuba. 
Lillian Guerra, an assistant professor 
of history who 
specializes in the 
Caribbean and advises the vast majority 
of undergraduates conducting research 
in Cuba, speculates that under twenty 
institutions now hold the academic 
license. The license must be renewed 
every year, and can easily be withheld 
by the Department of the Treasury. For 
example, in 2005, Harvard lost its license 
for 18 months. 
The Cuban government also erects 
barriers. Before students jet off to the 
island, they must obtain a Cuban research 
visa, which grants access to any Cuban 
academic institution and legalizes study in 
a country that often equates research with 
espionage. "If you don't have a research 
visa," Guerra warns, "it is criminal, and 
you can get deported." 
Students 
must 
meet 
rigorous 
regulations 
and 
obtain 
independent 
funding to receive Yale's endorsement. 
One such student, junior Gerald McElroy, 
studied the Cuban media's portrayals 
of the United States as a crime-ridden, 
marijuana-smokingcesspoolcharacterized 
by extreme racism and cold-hearted, 
capitalist murder. McElroy understood 
the need for tact when dealing with 
sooalist regimes. On his application for a 
Cuban research visa, McElroy proposed a 



**Title: Travel to Cuba: A Necessary Evil?**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
project titled "el pensamiento anti-imperialista 
del pueblo Cubano" (the anti-imperialist 
thought of the Cuban people). "They 
never would've accepted my project if I'd 
said 'how ·el Partido manipulated the image 
of the United States,"' he says. 
Although 
Yale's 
authorization 
eases the Treasury Department limits 
on a student's travel, restrictions are 
inevitable. Students are only allowed to 
spend a certain amount of money in 
Cuba per day, and are required to keep 
all their receipts for potential inspection. 
Though the scarcity of paper, thrivirig 
' 
black market, and evasion of official 
price 
controls 
eliminate 
almost all 
possibility of documenting transactions, 
Bustamante says students must try their 
. best to stay in line. "To this day, I have a 
file of the receipts that I did collect." For 
American students, traveling to Cuba is 
a careful balance of satisfying the home 
government, the host government, and 
one's daily needs. 

McElroy had grown dissatisfied with 
the capitalist system in the U.S., and . 
traveled to Cuba with stirrings of sympathy 
for the revolution's ideals of equality in 
health care, education, earnings, and race 
relations. His initial interactions with 
other Cubans reinforced this view, but 
after the honeymoon period, his politics 
changed quickly. "None of my [Cuban] 
friends were telling me the truth at that 
point," he explains, "but what I came to 
realize was how much complexity there 
was in the situation." 

One night toward the beginning of his 
ten weeks, McElroy was walking through 
a tourist hangout with a friend. McElroy 
is very fair; his friend dark-skinned. While 
they waited for two others to arrive, 
a policeman circled suspiciously. He 
eventually approached the two, greeted 
McElroy with 
a 
courteous "Buenas 
noches," and asked him a few questions 
to determine that he wasn't Cuban. 
Then, he asked McElroy's friend for his 
identification card. He walked a few feet 
away with it, and then read the friend's 
full name into his walkie-talkie to a 
central authority, presumably to confirm 
. 
that he was a "jinetero," a tourist tricker. 
McElroy was angry. He approached the 
policeman, told him that he wasn't some 
turista estupido at the mercy of any wily 
con-man on the street, that this man was 
his good friend and must be left alone. 
"I was fighting with him, and really they 
can't do anything ·to tourists." He was 
surprised and outraged at the officer's 
racism, but he came to understand that, 
in Cuba, discrimination is the norm. 
"This would define my experience," he 
explained; 

Combining daily experiences with his 
research on the Cuban press, McElroy 
soon began to understand the irony of the 
government's depictions of the United 
States as a bastion of racism. Other ironies 
stood out as well. In the much-touted 
Cuban health-care system, foreigners are 
given preferential treatment and doctors 
are shipped off to other countries to 
maintain the image of the revolution. 
Though the revolution aimed to harness 
tourism for the Cuban people, McElroy 
says that many foreigners now consider 
Cuba "the brothel of the world." Though 
many Cubans listen to the anti-U.S. 
sensationalist media, just as many distrust 
the government enough to assume the 
opposite of anything propagated by the 
national media. Revolutionary leaders 
touted Soviet-style communism, but the 
people never entirely bought it. 
"Soviet culture was really mocked as 
having no relevance to Cuba," McElroy 
explains. 
The Cuban media scorns 
capitalism, he says, and then "you go 
around Cuba and I've never seen so 
much fucking Puma in my life!" At one 
point, McElroy spotted a man getting the 
Puma logo shaved into his head. 

Michael Fernandez insists that the 
opportunity to speak to Cuban exiles in the 
•• 
U.S. renders travel to Cuba unnecessary. 
"There are a lot of Cuban exiles, Cuban 
dissidents, who were in jail for 25 years," 
he says. "Go talk with anyone and they'll 
tell you it's not a paradise." 

The debate over travel to Cuba pits 
academic 
freedom 
against 
concern 
for the freedom of the Cuban people. 
McElroy believes that speaking only to 
exiles would have limited his scope, and 
that his research project necessitated 
speaking with Cubans living in Cuba to 
determine the effects of a sensationalist 
national media. 

Fernandez argues that nothing short 
of a family member in a critical situation, 
like a dying grandfather, merits regime-
supporting travel to the island. 

1chael Bustamante was raised in a 
ban exile family. His paternal 
grandparents left the island with three 
children in 1962 and never went back. 
Iri. Cuba, his research focused on 
1920s bourgeois intellectuals who took 
divergent paths in the years leading up 
to Castro's dictatorship. Some became 
die-hard supporters, others outspoken 
enemies of the regime. Their chief 
outlet was the publication of essays and 
visual art in highbrow magazines and 
journals. Bustamante was also able to 
read much of their correspondence at 
the National Archives in Havana. While 
his research wouldn't have been nearly as 
comprehensive without a visit to Cuba, 
the transformative part of his travel lies 
in his rediscovery of family ties. 

"No one in my family had been 
back in forty-plus years," he explains. 
His grandfather told him about some 
remaining family on the island and 
suggested 
that Bustamante consider 
visiting them if he had the time. 

Beginning on July 26th, when almost 
all Cuban institutions shut down for 
celebrations, he set out to visit his cousins 
in Santiago. ;r'echnically, Bustamante's 
academic visa did not permit such travel, 
but his research became impossible when 
the archives closed. Bustamante didn't 
realize how important the visit was until 
' . 
he was in Santiago. "My grandfather, he 
absolutely felt that it was necessary to do 
that, but he 'didn't necessarily want to put 
the burden on me." 

In Santiago, he spoke to the woman




**Title: Yale Students Go to Cuba**
**Author: Ali Sethi**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
living in his grandmother's childhood 
home. She remembered his grandmother 
as a little girl. He discovered that his 
grandparents must have had some 
communication 
with 
their 
relatives 
because his cousins had photographs of 
Bustamante from when he was· twelve-
• 
years old. 

Since returning to the U.S., Bustamante · 
has continued to communicate with a 
number of his cousins. Although an 
extremely small portion of the Cuban 
population has access to the Internet, one 
of his cousins can go online because she 
is a doctor. "They're kind of like five years 
behind in Internet culture," he adds, citing 
the chain e-mails that she always sends. 
Now, with the lines of communication 
opened, he can transcribe letters from 
his grandparents and send them to the 
Gmail account his cousins share. "These 
human-to-human ties that are not cooked 
up in some resort hotel is what needs to 
happen," he insists. For Bustamante, the 
most important part of traveling to Cuba 
was realizing, "This is a person. She is 
related to you." 

ustamante went to Cuba to explore 
the murky realities underlying the 
simplistic, polarized Cuba debate in the 
U.S. He went to find answers, to figure 
out which faction of U.S. advocates had it 
right, or to find some different solution. 
Instead, his human ties have given him an 
intimate understanding of the exact same 
"complexity" that McElroy experienced. 
When pushed to make even the mildest 
of judgrnents, Bustamante stumbles over 
his words. "No one likes the government. 
There, no one 
wait 
I take that back. 
Some do, but everyone is frustrated ... 
Part of the problem with the debate is 
that people are forced to try to make 
these generalizations." 

Both 
Bustamante 
and 
McElroy 
articulate the paradoxes 
the ironies in 
the health care system, the tourism, the 
racism, the plight of individual freedom 
in a socialist society. They reject the 
polarized debate between Che-shirt-
wearing revolutionary liberals and the 
hard line, primera-ola, Cuban elite in South 
Florida. Suspicious of a quick fix, the 
students are in search of ways to bridge 
the divide. 

Elizabeth Jordan, who graduated 
October 2007 
from Yale in 2006, traveled to Cuba with 
Bustamante during the summer of 2005. 
She had gone once before with the Yale 
Chaplain's Office on a ·religious visa, and 
' 
went once more on the same permit after 
her ten-week summer trip. Jordan studied 
the 
interactions · between 
Protestant 
churches and the socialist, atheist state. 
She says these experience gave her "a 
more nuanced take on Cuba" and allowed 
her "to see the gray areas." 

Both Bustamante and Jordan continue 
to use the knowledge they gained in Cuba, 
Bustamante at the Council on Foreign 
Relations and Jordan at Human Rights 
First. Jordan is often forced to correct 
the assumption that she stands firmly 
on one side of the debate. Once, while 
speaking to a Cuban exile, Jordan says, 
"I made an offhand comment that I had 
traveled to Cuba." The woman assumed 
Jordan must be a sympathizing leftist. "I 
had to convince her that I wasn't ardently 
Castro." Another time, she was speaking 
with a fellow activist who worked for an 
environmental N GO. "She asked, 'What 
do you think about Cuba?" and she 
thought that I would just say, 'Castro's 
great, go Che!' ... She was surprised that I 
had so much to say." 

Travel to Cuba gives college students 
a unique view of the island and the will 
to change the U.S. policy debate. Barack 
Obama thinks that travel to Cuba is also 
bound to change the political landscape 
of the island. In an op-ed published in 
the Miami Herald in late August, Obama 
argued that removing restrictions on 
Cuban-Americans' family visits to the 
island can only help foster dissidence and 
~ 
a grass-roots movement for democracy. 
If Americans travel to Cuba, Obama 
believes, information w i11 travel with 
them. 

McElroy concurs. ''People are so 
willing and anxious to talk to you," he 
says, noting that the Cuban media leads 
Cubans toward extreme opinions of the 
U.S. He was asked, ''Geraldo, can you 
walk outside in the United States at night 
without the police temng you to go home 
because you'll be shot at?'' And once, he 
says, ''I met a Cuban who was trying to 
defend the war in Iraq to me." 

Ideas from the U.S. manage to 
infiltrate the Cuban psyche despite 
the country's controlled media and 
restricted travel. Undergraduates, Guerra 
argues, are in a unique position to aid 
the exchange. "These students are like 
vehicles of information," she asserts. 
"Undergraduates, 
because 
of 
age, their curiosity, their in fact:__ 
openness. . . they are possessed of a 
number of skills and talents that older 
people just don't have." 

Both Jordan and Bustamante call 
Guerra the "sole ·reason" that Yale 
undergraduates are able to travel to Cuba, 
both because of her tireless advocacy 
of student trips in the face of so many 
obstacles and the support she provides 
students in Cuba about everything from 
contacts and housing to what to wear to 
avoid looking too yuma, or American. 

Ras Raudel, a Cuban friend of 
McElroy, is a member of LA Comision 
Depuradora, a group that works to break 
the silence surrounding racism against 
Afro-Cubanos in Cuba through rap and 
hip-hop at underground concerts. One 
day, McElroy asked him, "How can you 
keep fighting?" Raudel answered, 
'~s 
much oppression as there was in the 
United States, at least they could express 
themselves." Then he began to cry. 

The naivete of American students 
travelingtoCubamakes them approachable 
and allows even older Cubans, the ones 
who have been in the trinchera, or trench, 
with Castro for decades, to ask them 
questions and expect honest responses. 
In May of 2002, Guerra and three of her 
students were riding a bus. The driver 
was dark-skinned. He regarded her three 
students, who were dark-skinned as well, 
with curiosity, and eventually sidled up to 
one of them. 
"So are you really in college?" he 
asked. 
''Yeah," the student replied. 
The driver thought for a moment. 
He was about fifty years old, grateful 
to the revolution for his education. He 
assumed that he wouldn't have gotten 
that education in Cuba without Castro, 
or in the U.S. He said to the student, "I 
didn't know that black people could go to 
college in the U.S." 

TN 
Ali S ei~ a junior in Trumbull College, is an 
On-line Editor of TN]. 
. 31 




**Title: Yale students educate Connecticut's felons.**
**Author: Alexis Fitts**
**Page number(s): 34-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
' . 
• 
Yale students educate Connecticut's felons. 
' 
By 
lexis Fitts 
34 
THE NEW JOURNAL 


n Friday afternoon, while some 
of her classmates sleep through 
their labs, Kate Hawkins teaches 
multiplication, pounding her arm against 
the table to the rhythm of her speech~ . . 
"Four times thre.e?" Pound,. pound, 
pound . . Her pupil, Jason Cartman, flicks 
his eyes towards . the ceiling, deep in 
thought. "Twelve?" he replies. His answer 
receives a punctuated ''Yes!" and another 
pound, this time in jubilation. . 
Earlier in the session, Hawkins 
explains, Carunan was having trouble 
with the concept of multiplication, 
calculating equations by hand with little 
check marks that took ages to count up. 
Now he's running through the tables with 
minimal trouble. "He's really getting it," 
she says proudly. 
· 
This scene could be from any 
elementary school tutoring program, 
except that Cartn1an is well over six feet 
tall and in prison. 


Every Friday, Hawkins and a handful 
of other Yale students spend two hours in 
Cheshire, Connecticut preparing inmates 
of the Cheshire prison for the GED. 
They settle in the prison's classrooms, 
ready to answer questions about the 
math, language arts, and social studies 
sections of the exam. Every Friday, the 
same inmates filter in, clutching their 
math books, ready to ask questions about 
fractions and conjunctions. All of them 
are serving time. All of them are trying to 
graduate high schooL 
. 
The Cheshire 
pri~on's program is 
by no means unique. Its Prison School 
lies under the jurisdiction of Unified 
School District 1, a depar-unent that 
provides educational programming in 
18 Connecticut prisons for over twelve 
thousand inmates. Last year, 682 inmates 
earned their GED in U.S. District · 1. 
Thirty-seven were students at Cheshire. 
Cheshire's 
GED 
program 
isn't 
the prison's only educational offering. 
Students who are not ready for the exam 
can take basic reading and math classes. 
Those who have alre~dy received a high 
school diploma can enroll in one college 
class each semester. Occasionally~ Yale 
volunteers offer fun, informal classes like 
creative writing and art history. The prison 
also provides its inmates with vocational 
seminars, by far the most popular courses, 
which teach skills such as woodworking 
October 2007 
and computer or automotive repair. 


Even against the array of alternative 
classes, the GED program stands out. 
"If it's not the only program, it sometimes 
seems like the most important," . says 
Pria Anand, a Berkeley sophomore who 
runs the tutoring program this year. "It's 
someone's high school graduation 
that's 
such a big goal." 


Dorthula Green, Cheshire Prison 
School's principal, cites her favorite 
quote from the '70s TV show Baretta: 
· "Do the time, don't let the time do you." 
For inmates, she explains, the GED often 
represents a chance to finish something 
• • 
and make positive use of their jail time. 
This is why Green has gone to such 
lengths to incorporate Yale students into 
her program, despite serious hurdles. 
"My philosophy is that we need to make 
sure to do eve 
· g we can to make the 
time as productive and empowering as 
possible," she says. 


This 
philosophy 
allowed Jessica 
Jiang, the former head of the program 
and a current tutor, to start the Cheshire 
program in the fall of her junior year, 
inspired by similar work she had done in 
the New Haven Correctional Facility. It's 
this same commitment that has allowed 
the Cheshire effort to thrive while the 
New Haven program, though housed in a 
non-federal facility, is temporarily halted 
due to administrative problems. 
---4 ducation is the most poweiful weapon you 
__. can use to change the world." 


This Nelson Mandela quote, carved 
into a wooden plaque on a long wall 
above a security desk, greets visitors 
entering the Cheshire Prison School The 
rooms are large and bright and filled with 
dozens of new computers. The walls 
brandish posters of the "Great Books" 
and To Kill a Mockingbird, commemorating 
Cheshire's participation in 'The Big Read' 
during New Haven's Festival of Arts 
and Ideas last year. Aside from a lack 
of school supplies (the prison restricts 
the use of markers, pencils, and other 
writing.utensils for safety reasons), there 
is almost nothing that differentiates these 
facilities from those of a well-equipped 
grade school. 


Yet, the elaborate bureaucracy and 
regulatory system controlling the flow of 
people into and out of the prison remains 
daunting. Visitor rules are posted around 
the waiting room in English and Spanish: 
If you are late to visiting hours, you forfeit 
your right to visit; if you are unregistered 
nson 
in advance, you forfeit your right to visit; 
if. you wear an article of clothing that 
might set off the metal detectors (such as 
an underwire bra) and try to remove it in 
public, you forfeit your right to visit. 


Many of the same strictures apply 
to tutors. They must fill out pages of 
paperwork to gain clearance. A prison 
staff member must escort them at all 
times. Nothing can be brought into the 
prison: no cell phones, no purses. Only a 
photo I.D. may be taken into the waiting 
room, and even that must be left at the 
front desk upon arrival. Often, there are 
glitches. Last week, a tutor's shoes set 
off the metal detector. Another time, 
one of the prison-issued panic beepers 
went off repeatedly during the two hours 
of tutoring. Anand remembers a recent 
·setback when a new guard wouldn't let 
the tutors into the facility. "He just kept 
saying, 'I don't know your faces, I'm not 
sure."' The tutors were left in the waiting 
room for over an hour. 


Oftentimes, tutors must overcome 
difficulties 
far 
beyond 
logistics. 
The Cheshire prison population is 
predominately African-American 
and 
Hispanic; Yale tutors are usuaiJy white 
or Asian-American. Cheshire is an all-
male facility, while all the current Yale 
35 


~tors are female. Aside from a few mild 
instances 
a flirtatious note sent from 
a prisoner to a tutor, an odd comment 
now and then 
both tutors and inmates 
are conscientious. "Everyone walks on 
eggshells," Anand explains. "The inmates, 
the warden, the students. It's sort of a 
novel thing for everyone." 


For 
tutor 
Samantha 
Amodeo, 
the Prison School students are more 
uncomfortable 
with · the 
gender 
discrepancy than the tutors. "Some . of 
the inmates have said, 'Why is it all girls · 
corDing, don't any guys want to do this?"' 
Sometimes, Amodeo thinks, the inmates 
might be more at ease learning from male 
( 
a 
that is really unique and glamorous, and 
when you get there it can be a little more 
like a slap in the face." 


· But for Amodeo, who's been tutoring 
at Cheshire for almost a year, adjusting 
to the new setting was much easier than 
she expected. "I went in the first week 
thinking, 'This is a federal prison, I've 
gotta be sort of tough,' but now I think 
it's a more relaxed· learning environment 
than at Yale. It's often the best part of my 
week," she says. 


Green believes the program is mostly 
self-selecting. Tutors who don't take the 
program seriously, ·or who come for the 
wrong reasons, usually end up dropping 
can 
J 
ecauseo excesszve enevo ence 
or so 
e sense o 
tutors. 


Even the academic material can feel 
out of place at times. It's uncomfortable, 
. . 
for example, when a teaching aide uses an 
example about car mileage with a student 
who no longer possesses a driver's 
license. 


A few weeks ago, Anand was prepping 
a section of the exam . that required 
students to state whether a · phrase 
consisted of fact or opinion. One of the 
· statements read, ''All U.S. citizens have 
the right to vote." "Obviously they meant 
it to be 'fact,"' she says, "but for someone 
who's incarcerated, it's not fact." 


Most Yale students would not trade 
tutoring . kindergarteners at elementary 
schools ten minutes from campus for 
a fifty-minute drive to Cheshire and 
two hours with convicted criminals. 
The tutoring program attracts more 
seniors than freshmen, and participants 
generally learn about the program via 
word of mouth rather than on-campus 
advertising. There is a fairly high initial 
drop-out rate among the tutors, explains 
Beth Reisfeld, who runs the New Haven 
Correctional Center's program. ''Prison 
tutoring seems like the kind of activity 
36 
JJ 
out in the first semester. "I always tell 
the tutors you can't come because of 
excessive benevolence or some sense of 
rich white guilt," Green says. "People 
pick up on that and you become less than 
th 
. " 
au entre. 


· If the point of a GED is to aid in 
finding employment, then why would 
the Cheshire inmates 
who are serving 
anywhere from five to 99 years 
need 
the diploma? Green has asked this 
question herself. But the first time she 
awarded . a GED, she realized the degree 
meant much more than gaining access 
to a job. "When these guys earn their 
diploma, that's the first step towards 
thinking they can accomplish stuff. At 
Yale, you don't necessarily choose a major 
because it leads to a particular job. It's the 
same here; there's an intrinsic value to 
education." Although Connecticut law 
requires inmates under the age of 21 to 
participate in educational programming, 
most of the Cheshire students are older. 
They choose to participate anyway. 


They consider the Prison School such a 
privilege, .in fact, that prison authorities 
often punish inmates by forbidding them 
to attend. 


Anand remembers a group of GED 
candidates who continued to participate 
in tutoring sessions while waiting for 
their GED results. "They still came to 
tutoring anyway, even though they'd 
already taken the test," she recalls .. "One 
guy started asking me questions about 
trig, just because, 'why not,' he was 
interested." When the inmates received 
their GED scores, all of them passing, 
the first people they told were. their tutors. 
"They just came in with these huge smiles 
waving their certificates around," explains 
Anand. 


Jiang, her predecessor, chimes in. 
"That was just the best day." 


Experiences 
like 
this 
make 
the 
tutoring program especially rewarding 
for its Yale participants. Amodeo says 
that h~r students often ask whether she's 
being paid. "When they find out that 
we're here just because we want to be, 
they just really care." 


For Jiang, the students' dedication 
makes the travel time and security 
meas·ures worthwhile. "Just seeing these 
people who want to learn so much," 
she says, "I realize I have this great 
opportunity at Yale." 


essica, Jessica," a voice calls out. Jiang 
swivels in her seat. Jermaine Davidson, 
inmate who has been in tutoring 
classes for a little over six months, pops 
his head through the classroom door. 
"I couldn't come today, 'cause I got 
in trouble. But I'll be here next Friday. I 
need real help." 


Randall Jennings, another student, 
swings his palm in a semi-circle against 
his forehead. "I'm nothing but cobwebs 
up here, nothing but cobwebs," he says, 
stretching a smile across his face. With 
the help of Jiang, Anand, and their fellow 
tutors, those webs have begun to trap 
ideas . 
-
The names of inmates have been changed. 
TN 
Alexis Fitts is a senior in Branford College. 



**Title: Fraternity brothers**
**Author: Pat Hqyden**
**Page number(s): 38-39**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
October 2007 
• 
n his first few days as a summer 
subletter at Sigma Phi Epsilon 
("SigEp"), Nick Coman awoke to 
a harsh banging at the fraternity's back 
door. "I' want your cans," a voice called. 
'~nd your house looks like shit." The 
voice belonged to Kenny Jackson, a 
homeless man and fixture of the High 
Street community. Lanky and emaciated 
after years of cocaine abuse, Jackson 
. had grown accustomed to cleaning up 
fraternity houses for cash. Coman opened 
the door and launched into a two-month 
relationship with the homeless of High 
Street. 
"Kenny must have been used to 
being there and having some sort of 
relationship," Coman reasoned, after 
being stunned. by Jackson's smooth 
approach. This arrangement had, in fact, 
existed since SigEp bought its new home 
at 31 High Street in 2006. The fraternity's 
leaders lauded the. purchase, with former 
Vice-President of Member Development 
Michael Rucker claiming in February 
'of 2006, '~house is important because 
we want to maintain an image that is 
not a crazy-party fraternity but is still a . . 
bit more gentlemanly." A house may be 
important, but cleaning it is. still more 
s~d, evidently, gentlemen don't 
clean. SigEp's former president began 
hiring the homeless just months after the 
· house~warming. 

Current SigEp President Michael 
Schwartzman downplays the relationship 
and insists that "it's never been much of 
an issue." According to SigEp House 
Manager Larry Wise, the real problem 
. stems from the house's property manager, 
Bob Esposito, who pays three or four 
homeless people for labor on a regular 
basis. Schwartzman maintains that he has 
"no knowledge of Bob's involvement with 
homeless people." Esposito, however, 
readily admits to his employment of the 
homeless community. Although SigEp's 
national 
headquarters 
commissioned 
him to keep the property safe, Esposito 
explains, "Yeah, I hire them. Kenny's 
done cleaning for us 
when garbage was 
. 
slimed everywhere and no one wanted to 
touch it, Kenny would grab a trashcan 
and do it. I'd give him ten or twenty 
dollars, no problem." 

Esposito's implicit claim is a common 
one: if these are jobs no one wants, and the 
homeless ne~d the money and are willing, 
is it wrong? Judging from the actions of 
other fraternities, the answer seems to be 
no. SigEp's practices are not unique. Next 
door, at Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Jackson 
and a group of his friends, also homeless, 
spent the night of July 19th raving in the 
basement, taking swigs from half-empty 
beer cans and assuring the brothers, 
"If you leave your beer cans empty, I'll 
break the legs of anyone you want with a 
baseball bat." 

SAE 
President 
Stephen 
Sherrill 
flatly denies these stories and rests firm 
on his conviction that, ''We just haven't 
had an issue with it. We keep our doors 
locked like anyone else." In response to 
allegations that SAE is insta11ing a new 
door because of homeless vandalism, 
Sherrill had no comment. 

To the homeless of New Haven, 
cleaning up 
fraternities 
is 
nothing 
new. Joe Comfort, a 55-year-old street 
legend who assumes an air of authority 
when speaking about eve 
· g from 
en atj a e was s zme 
ere 
no one wante to touc. 
ra 
a tras can an 
wou 
' 
ten or twen 
zve 
zm 
no 
em. '' 
osito 
crack habits to vaults of stolen goods, 
dismisses Jackson's involvement with 
SigEp as amateur employment and shares 
his personal story of fraternity servitude. 
According 
to 
Comfort, 
he 
began 
cleaning Sigma Nu about four years ago 
in exchange for a few dollars every now 
and then. Although current Sigma Nu 
President Josh Lederman asserts that 
he has heard nothing of the fraternity's 
history of homeless hiring, Comfort says 
that he eventually moved into the · house 
for several months as a full-time servant 
to the brothers. "I cooked whatever they 
wanted. I fixed their doors, dishwasher, 
windows, and everything." Though he 
enjoyed the incessant parties, Comfort 
found himself performing menial tasks 
for ungrateful brothers. "I cleaned up 
when they fucked up," he sighs. "They'd 
be playing beer pong and they'd puke in 
the drains, and I'd have to clean that shit 
up and wouldn't get a fucking quarter." 

Comfort says his stint at Sigma Nu 
fell apart during one Parents' Weekend. 
Pleased with himself after building a 
wall to hide the brothers' kegs from their 
parents, Comfort stumbled in front of "a 
bunch of rich white daddies." According 
to Comfort, one father turned to his son 
and asked, "Hey boys, who's this nigger?" 
After the brothers explained that Comfort 
helped out and was not a member of the 
Yale community, the father turned away 
from Comfort and told his son, "Get this 
nigger out of here." The current SigNu 
president declined comment. 

Back at SigEp, brothers and subletters 
watched as Jackson grew more attached 
to the building: According to Coman, 
Kenny soon became "the running joke 
of the house." In fact, in weekly e-mails 
rehasing the hazy details of the weekend's 
parties, Jackson was a favorite topic of 
conversation. Following a particularly 
stunning performance on July 21 •t, Coman · 
wrote that "Least Valuable Player goes to 
Kenneth 'Kenny' Jackson for completing 
multiple drug deals in the backyard during 
the party ineluding selling 'purple haze' 
to people for forty dollars per bag. Here's 
to you Kenny, way to be that guy." 

Jackson was ready to help and inched 
his way closer to SigEp this past summer. 
He lingered in the home, and the brothers 
did not complain. On July 20th, Coman 
ra11ied his fellow subletters to host 
another party, exp1aining, "I'm not even 
hung over, and Kenny offered to clean up 
the party this morning." 

Jackson cleaned and the parties 
continued, but a 
series of strange 
incidents in August severed his bond 
to the house. After the laptops of 
two subletters went missing, Jackson 
wandered over and explained that he 
could return the computers for fifty 
dollars, with which he would buy drugs. 
"I thought about it," Coman explains. "I 
figured, two thousand dollar computer 
versus fifty dollars in weed. It wasn't a 
hard decision." Jackson returned hours 
later, empty-handed and heavily beaten 
after trying to retrieve the computers. As 
Jackson roamed around, bloodied and 
blubbering apologies, Coman was at a 
birthday party in Manhattan. 

Fraternity leaders profess to be taking 
a hard line against outside help, but the 
homeless presence persists. Jackson was 
last seen at SAE in September, dangling 
out of a tree and yelling to Coman, "I 
love you, man, I'm sorry, man. I'd do 
fifteen for you, I'd kill for you." Coman 
returned to the inside of the house while 
SAE brothers forced Kenny away. 

Hoping to avoid a ·similar scene, 
Comfort has kept his . distance. But he 
knows that homeless labor is always. 
welcome. "I could go back whenever I 
want," he explains. "But my name isn't 
'nigger.' It's Mr. Comfort." 

Like Sigma Nu, SAE, and the majority 
of other Yale fraternities, SigEp hopes to 
restore its "gentlemanly image." Larry 
Wise resents the rumors of homeless 
help and explains, ''As house manager, 
I'm opposed to having people around 
whom I don't know." Principles aside, the 
seasoned members of the New Haven 
homeless community are well aware of 
Yale's Greek life and their roles as its 
custodians. Indeed, as a July invitation to 
a party at SigEp suggested, "If you need 
directions to SigEp, just ask any homeless 
person." 

TN 
Pat Hqyden, a senior in Timotf?y Dwight 
College, is a staff writer for TN].


**Title: A new take on the old boys' club**
**Author: Alexandra Schwartz**
**Page number(s): 40-42**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• • 
• 
A new take on the old boys' club . 
Yale professor stands at the 
front of a lecture hall, chatting 
with a group of students who 
have hung around after class. ''You know, 
it's hard enough to keep yourself intact 
psychologically as it is, even in the 20th 
century," he tells them with a note of 
urgency in his voice. ''Imagitie how it 
was back there, when everything around 
you was your enemy, when you were 
surrounded by disease and ignorance. It 
was a hell of a situation to be a man in 
those days. It's still pretty rough to be a 
man." 

Thus begins To Be a Man, a film 
made by Yale student Murray Lerner in 
1966 with the purpose of exploring and 
promoting the University experience as it 
was then: intense, insular, and decisively 
male. The smug assertiveness of the title, 
coupled with the self-righteousness of its 
opening moments, marks the film as an 
easy target for a 21st century audience. All 
those earnest white boys in jackets and 
ties, smoking their pipes at the seminar 
table, slicking their hair over to one side 
as if coeducation were not a short three 
years away, as if Bobby Seale and the 
Black Panthers would never descend on 
New Haven and take a battle ax to the 
ivory tower as the city had always known 
it. 

nothing could better typify the stodgy 
and repressive Ivy League attitude that 
we, the Yalies of today, look back on with 
cheerful derision. For women, to show 
anything but contempt for pre-1969 Yale 
would be to negate our very sense of self-
worth as integral parts of this institution. 
To Be a Man might be valuable in certain 
ways, 
namely, to elicit some laughs and 
confirm our assumptions about what 
went on inside that old boys' club of 
yesteryear. But as a serious meditation on 
academics and identity, it seems to have 
little enduring value. 

And yet, once the film fails to make 
good on its latentpromise of misogyny and 
gentlemen's agreement-style racism, once 
it becomes clear that its idea of manhood 
has little to do with the exclusion of other 
groups, To Be a Man is no longer so easy 
to dismiss. "This is ahout that journey of 
the mind we call education," a voiceover 
states at the beginning of the movie. 
"The doubts, debates, and discoveries 
of college students today." While some 
of the fashions and characters featured 
in the film seem quaint, this quest to 
understand what college and learning 
is all about certainly does not. One has 
to wonder: what, exactly, did it mean to 
be a man at Yale in 1966? And, more 
surprisingly, might we, at heart, be good, 
old-fashioned Yale men ourselves? 

Yale of the mid-1960s was on the 
cusp of a great change in American 
education and youth culture. What is less 
clear now is that the University had already 
begun a quieter, internal revolution well 
before the era of campus protests. In 
the 1950s, Yale was a decisively elitist 
institution, even more so than Harvard 
and Princeton. As Jerome Karabel notes 
in his book, The Chosen: The Hidden History 
of Admission and Exclusion at Harvard, Yale, 
and Princeton, "the foundation of Yale's 
distinctive culture was its close relationship 
with the private boarding schools." The 
Yale admissions board was convinced 
that boarding schools were molding the 
kind of boys they wanted: boys who were 
not simply academically gifted, but who 
also demonstrated the elusive quality of 
"personal promise." "In assessing the 
latter," Karabel writes, "the admissions 
office would look for evidence of a boy's 
'industry,' 'persistence,' 'self-discipline,' 
'sense of responsibility' and ... 'ability to 
participate in group activities.' " 

While Princeton and Harvard were 
making the transition to a standard of 
admission based more on academic merit 
than on abstract personal qualities, Yale 
stood by its character-based policy. A 
Yale education was never intended only to 
produce scholars, or to turn its students 
into brilliant stars of their fields. It was 
meant to create well-rounded, capable, 
and outgoing men. Academically gifted 
students were routinely rejected in favor 
of those who seemed to better represent 
the University's rigorous standards of 
"manliness." In one case that appears in 
Karabel's book, Chairman of the Board 
of Admissions Arthur Howe, Jr. favored 
one academically questionable candidate 
over others because "we just thought he 
was more of a guy." 

By the time the students of To Be a 
Man were admitted in the early '60s, 
times had begun to change. This was 
mostly due to faculty pressure on the 
admissions committee, and the drafting 
of the Doob Report in April 1962. "Yale 
is no longer an 18th century academy or 
a 19th century college," the report stated. 
"It is a university of the 20th century in 
one of the great nations." If Yale wanted 
to remain a competitive and important 
institution in the modern world, the 
report implied, it would have to rethink its 
policies and make itself more appealing 
to the best and the brightest. The report 
asserted academic meritocracy as the 
essential criterion for admission, and 
even recommended that the college begin 
enrolling women. Finally, Yale was getting 
its priorities straight. 

In this context, the idea and even the 
title of To Be a Man no longer seem like 
chauvinistic glorifications of a bygone 
era, but an attempt to grapple with a 
previous era's lasting imprint. As more 
and more students in the film speak about 
the challenges and rewards of studying at 
Yale, it becomes clear that even in 1966 the 
prototypical Yale Man was fast becoming 
a thing of the past. The film does show 
brief clips of the track and the crew boat, 
traditional haunts of Yalies from the 
1930s, '40s and '50s. But these images are 
overwhelmingly outnumbered by long 
segments of lectures and seminars, the 
camera following a professor as he strides 
up and down the podium or resting on 
the face of a student as he listens to his 
peer make a comment. 

Of course, the Yale Man had not 
vanished from campus. In one particularly 
memorable scene, a freshman who is 
spending the afternoon beating the 
dust out of his rug on the Old Campus 
explains that Yale "is not a coed college. 
It's a men's college." He complains 
about his roommates who "hibernate 
in some room, and sit and read a book 
all day long." But far more typical is his 
classmate, who declares, "I want to be 
put in over my head by the courses I'm 
taking, and by other people. And even 
though I might be destroyed in the 
process, if I come through it, I'll be much 
better for it." This kind of deep desire for 
knowledge doesn't sound too remote; in 
fact, this freshman could fit in just fine at 
the Yale we know today. 

Here lies the film's real twist and 
its most strangely satisfying revelation: 
These students, with their excitement for 
learning and, at times, disproportionate 
seriousness of purpose, are really not too 
different from us. Yes, the mandatory 
suits and ties have disappeared, and the 
campus is now far more diverse in every 
sense of the word. Nevertheless, listening 
in on the conversations and personal 
testimonies of the students in To Be a 
Man feels bewildering in its familiarity, 
almost as if one had recognized oneself 
in an old, beautiful photograph of a 
stranger. 

Did the students featured in To Be a 
Man realize that Yale as they knew 
it was coming to an end? No one talks of 
social revolution, the escalating conflict 
in Vietnam, or the specter of female 
students. They could not have imagined 
students with wild hair and bell-bottoms 
walking through Old Campus, the boys 
draping their arms over the girls' shoulders 
or lounging underneath trees, playing 
guitar and talking. Yet an unconscious 
nostalgia pervades the film. Lerner seems 
to have understood instinctively that he 
was documenting a campus that might 
look decidedly different in a few years. 
When the camera leaves the classroom 
and dorms, it chases after images of Yale 
landmarks like Connecticut Hall and 
Harkness Tower, pointing straight up to 
exaggerate the buildings' monumental 
status, as if in fear that they might 
suddenly disappear. The background 
music alternates between the traditional 
harmonies of the Whiffenpoofs and a 
contemporary jazzy melody. Even the 
students themselves seem pulled between 
the Yale of the past and the Yale of the 
future. "Before I came, I used to listen 
to all the old records," one boy says. "We 
sang, and got together in our tuxedos, 
and we sang 'For God, for country, 
and for Yale,' and seven alumni in the 
audience got up and started waving their 
handkerchiefs, and I'll be damned if I 
didn't feel good about it." His friends 
heckle him for his sentimentality, and 
we might be inclined to join in too. But 
there is a comfort and a pride in the 
customs of an institution that cannot be 
easily denied. "Brewster talks about your 
becoming part of an expanding tradition," 
the singer's roommate offers, as if to 
reconcile the ideas of past and the future, 
"something that you're not yourself fully 
able to change." Expanding tradition: it's 
a wonderful tightrope of a phrase, a kind 
of slogan for the seemingly impossible. 
You are the hinge between the Yale of 
tomorrow and the Yale of yesterday, it 
assures anxious students. And the two 
will be exactly the same, only different. 

Alexandra Schwartz is a junior in Saybrook 
College. 



**Title: That's Not My Apricot; My Apricot Is Some Other Apricot**
**Author: Dave Thier**
**Page number(s): 43-45**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
. . 
. ' 
Dave~ ·Thier pulls up weeds and puts down-roots. 
's a saying in Arabic: "That 
1s not my apncot; my apncot 1s 
some other apricot." It became 
a favorite of mine and five other interns 
this summer as we worked on the Yale 
Farm. When we were confronted with a 
challenge, the saying made the situation 
clear. It's not that I don't have an apricot:-
I do 
it's just that that's not it. 
The perennial bed was our apricot. 
TheY ale Farm is located on a one-acre 
plot on Edwards Street, off of Prospect, 
just past the last outcrops of Science 
Hill. It's composed of flat beds and 
terraces for annl!al plantings, separated 
by steep drops. These areas, which we 
called berms, are not suited to intensive 
annual culti arion. They can, however, be 
October 2007 
used for perennial plantings 
fruit trees, 
herbs, flowers; plants 'that survive from 
year to year and by all rights shouldn't 
need much work or attention. The largest 
of these areas, on the farm as well as in 
my mind, is aptly termed the perennial 
bed 
our apricot. It is there that I want 
to be buried. When I die, I want it to 
know that it won. 

first heard of the perennial bed when 
Josh Viertel, co-director of .the Yale 
Sustainable Food Project and chief 
farm manager, gave us interns our first 
tour of the Farm. The six of us were 
preparing to spend the entire summer 
on an acre of green in grey ... ew Haven 
but it had recently been laid to waste by 
the installation of new, frost-free water 
pipes. The usual early spring desolation 
looked more akin to a construction site 
than to the verdant paradise we had been 
promised. Josh casually gestured with the 
left side of his body to the area above the 
stone wall and said, "This is the perennial 
bed. We plant. .. perennials ... in here." 
It would be a while before this barely 
sprouting brown lump began to bloom. 
It would be a while before it became 
the overwhelming presence that circled 
around every morning meeting and every 
lunch break like an albatross. It would be 
a while before I got a sinking feeling as 
I looked at the limp geranium perched 
on the broad blade of a pickaxe I had 
grabbed after pulling so hard on a lump


Our job in the perennial bed was not 
all that different from our responsibilities 
elsewhere on the Farm, nor was it all 
that . much harder. We planted things, 
we weeded, we mulched. It was a simple 
war of attrition to establish the plants we 
wanted over the ones we didn't. Those 
we would kill, and then we would choke 
their children with a thick bed of leaves. 
Though it's a straightforward task, the 
perennial bed had a way of swallowing 
work. We could spend a full eight hours 
hunched over a patch of galansoga only 
to look up and see an area identical to the 
one we had entered eight hours before. 
The weeds grew in big stands that 
looked just like normal plantings. There's 
a unique feeling of terror you get with 
your hand wrapped around the stem of a 
plant, trying to decide whether or not to 
pull it. 'It's so big and healthy,' you might 
think, 'surely, this, this is supposed to be 
here.' I remember a fellow intern waving 
out from amidst the thicket, calling 
another to investigate, and then another, 
and then me. And then the four of us 
gathered, peering and poking at what 
turned out to be sorrel. Josh wandered 
over, yanked it out, gave us a little smile, 
and sauntered off. The next day, a plant 
of equal ferocity had taken its place, 
the mulch having been magically moved 
by some mischievous sprite during the 
night. 

defining characteristics of a 
perennial planting 
are 
also 
its 
most painful. Perennial berms follow 
natural curves rather than the straight 
lines that make annual plantings easy to 
manage. Left without that visual cue, · 
our task became distinguishing various 
green tufts from various green patches, 
most of which appeared native to some 
undiscovered continent. The uneven 
terrain made mulch slip off at the slightest 
provocation, exposing more bare soil to 
house more weeds. A farmer once ·told 
us how we would know we were winning: 
''You feel that sickening feeling in your 
stomach? That's how you know you're 
doing it right." 


This is not to denigrate the perennial 
it's a lovely spot. I hear that blood, 
sweat, and tears make fine fertilizer. Early 
in the summer, the sage on either side of 
the stairs flowered, and the small purple 
blossoms cupped tiny shots of sugar in 
their bases. Josh suggested that we use 
them as a garnish for root beer Boats, 
but that seemed somehow untoward. We 
also had big drifts of oregano, chives, and 
mint. We harvested them and mixed them 
with ricotta every day for lunch. There 
were a lot of stinging nettles, as well. 
I talked to an intern from the previous 
summer who asked about the Farm's 
drainage system. He e:xp1ained how he 
and the rest had dug ditches snaking 
through the acre, installed pipes and 
rocks, and then _covered them back up 
with earth on which the grass once again 
began to grow. It must have taken them 
weeks. Now, all that you can see of their 
project is a lighter strip of less healthy 
grass that cuts across the center of the 
Farm. Soon the grass will grow thick over 
that spot too. Their pipe runs underneath 
the turf, quiedy doing its job. I didn't give 
a second thought to drainage all summer. 
Not my apricot. 

On the last week of the sumrner, we 
put a whole new batch of transplants into 
the ground. By that time, the maintenance 
and mulching had decreased the weed 
pressure, and noticeable patterns had 
begun to emerge &om the small hm. 
With luck, the plants we put in this year 
will survive through winter and come to 
dominate the space next summer. Perhaps 
next year, the interns won't have to put so 
much of themselves into it, because what 
we put in will still be there. Perhaps the lily 
I fell on will still be stunted, a reminder of 
the rage we all poured into that earth. But 
that small sign will fade with time, and 
as the next summer's workers struggle 
to build a bench, or a chicken coop, or 
finally kill the goddamned hornets, or 
grapple with whate:ver apricot they will 
find themselves with, they will have 
beneath them the pieces of myself and 
hundreds of others still left in the soil. 

Dave Thier is a junior in Davenport College. 



**Title: II**
**Author: Matthew Lee**
**Page number(s): 46**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
My Sunday morning began as it usually does: I woke up with a splitting headache, a strange rash, and not the faintest idea of how I might have gotten to be that way. I failed to improve even after several cups of coffee and a cold shower, and a lack of incriminating Facebook photos suggested that the previous evening was not responsible for my condition. For once, I was sick in more than just the vague, existential sense.


Rather than make the long walk to University Health Services (there was little chance I was pregnant), I sought help from WebMD's on-line Symptom Checker. The idea is simple: select your symptoms from a checklist, and WebMD will identify the matching ailments that could have produced them. With several days' worth of reading on all sorts of exotic diseases, the website is a valuable tool for isolating hypochondriacs from the general population. It's also an important part of Mitt Romney's health plan.


In my case, the news was bad: my symptoms were consistent with West Nile virus. It was also possible I was suffering from "exercise or physical activity," but I guard against that risk fairly zealously.


My looming battle with West Nile was already taking its emotional toll, and I began to feel depressed. Fearing that UHS might consign me to the psychiatric ward, I decided to see if WebMD could help me here, too.


The Symptom Checker associates eleven medical conditions with a "depressed mood." I'm well-acquainted with the first ten: schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and so on. The eleventh, unfortunately for me, is mad cow disease. One imagines this makes for some awkward conversations at the doctor's office: "Well, Ms. Amos, we could try giving you a prescription for Zoloft ... or we might have to kill you to protect the rest of the herd."


Struggling to cope with the prospect of dying for British beef, I tried to find a cure for mad cow disease in the bottom of a glass. Here, finally, WebMD had some good news. According to the Symptom Checker, "craving alcohol" is a symptom of just one medical condition: cocaine abuse. At long last, I had a disease I could get excited about.


A short time later (after looking up the medical conditions associated with nosebleeds), I realized that for whatever reason I was starting to feel much better. In fact, I felt so good that I decided to get an early start on my night on the town to make up for my disappointing Saturday. And so my Monday morning began as it usually does. . .

-
Matthew Lee, a senior in Jonathan Edwards College, is a staff writer for TNJ.
