Publication date: October 2014
Volume: 47
Issue number: 2

**MASTHEAD**
- publisher: Briton Park
- editors-in-chief: Eric Boodman, Julia Calagiovanni
- executive editor: Ike Swetlitz
- managing editor: Maya Averbuch
- senior editors: Caroline Durlacher, Katy Osborn, Noah Remnick, Ezra Ritchin, A. Grace Steig
- associate editors: Ashley Dalton, Emily Efland, Caroline Sydney, Isabelle Taft
- copy editors: Adrian Chiem, Eva Landsberg, Adam Mahler, Douglas Plume
- staff writers: Gideon Broshy, Ashley Dalton
- photo editor: Jennifer Lu
- design editors: Annie Schweikert, Edward Wang, Madeleine Witt


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- Up for Debate - Caroline Durlacher
- The Bonds That Tie - Aaron Mak
- Classical Counterpoint - Eric Lin
- Cinderblock Manor - Nate Steinberg
- The Prophets’ Network - Arizona Greene
- When a Cop Calls - Alexandra Golden
- The Miniature Holy Land - Libbie Katsev
- Scarlet Letters - Olivia Klevorn
- Squeak, Don’t Eat Me! - Micaela Bullard


**Title: Up for Debate**
**Author: Caroline Durlacher**
**Page number(s): 20**


**Title: The Bonds That Tie**
**Author: Aaron Mak**
**Page number(s): 30**


**Title: Classical Counterpoint**
**Author: Eric Lin**
**Page number(s): 4**


**Title: Cinderblock Manor**
**Author: Nate Steinberg**
**Page number(s): 6**


**Title: The Prophets’ Network**
**Author: Arizona Greene**
**Page number(s): 8**


**Title: When a Cop Calls**
**Author: Alexandra Golden**
**Page number(s): 12**


**Title: The Miniature Holy Land**
**Author: Libbie Katsev**
**Page number(s): 17**


**Title: Scarlet Letters**
**Author: Olivia Klevorn**
**Page number(s): 27**


**Title: Squeak, Don’t Eat Me!**
**Author: Micaela Bullard**
**Page number(s): 38**



**Title: CLASSICAL COUNTERPOINT**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Hannah Lash’s first love was Bach. She remembers the first time she heard his music: “I wanted to create it. I wanted to figure notational things for me,” she explains. 

Decades later, Lash continues to compose; she teaches composition at the Yale School of Music, where she is the only female professor of composition alongside four men. The situation is similar in universities across the country, where fifteen percent of the composition faculty is women, according to WQXR, New York City’s classical music station. Historically, the disparity has been even starker. Ask readers to name female authors, and they’ll probably be able to name some—Emily Dickinson and Jane Austen, at the very least. But most classical music listeners would have trouble naming a single female composer. Virtually all of the canonical composers are men.

So Lash, like most female composers, often encounters what she calls the “dreaded question”: “What is it like to be a female composer?” The best response she says female composers can give: “What is it like to be a male composer?”

Lash grew up in upstate New York. Her parents, who were both librarians, educated her themselves instead of sending her to school. “Their philosophy was to give me free rein in the library,” she says. At 16, Lash began studying at the Eastman School of Music, under the instruction of composer Augusta Read Thomas. At the time, Thomas was the only woman on Eastman’s composition faculty, and her music challenged stereotypes about female composers’ work: essentially, that it was less ambitious. But Lash simply took Thomas’s music for what it was: great music.

HANNAH LASH IS AN AWARD-WINNING COMPOSER AND PROFESSOR AT THE YALE SCHOOL OF MUSIC. PHOTO BY JENNIFER LU.


Even today, those stereotypes persist. Lash says that audience members and even some musicians believe—whether consciously or not—that women write intuitive, emotional music, while men write grandly orchestrated, intellectual works. For her, this idea is preposterous. As she puts it, “Music transcends the idea of gender.”

And misconceptions about women’s compositions have hardly stopped Lash from coming into her own as a composer. She has won awards ranging from the Charles Ives Scholarship from the Academy of Arts and Letters to the Fromm Foundation’s the Naumberg Prize in Composition, as well as a scholarship to the Yaddo artists’ colony. Prior to the 2010 premiere of “Blood Rose,” the chamber opera she based on the story of “Beauty and the Beast,” The New York Times wrote: “Ms. Lash has created an impressive body of work, combining avant-garde techniques with a post-Romantic expressiveness.” In 2014, The Los Angeles Times praised her as a “sensitive orchestrator [who] applied vibrant dabs of color to an essentially Messiaen-like sound world,” for a composition entitled “This Ease.”

Lash entered Eastman to study harp performance, before moving on to composition. Most of her friends were men, because the composition students were predominantly male, though many of her fellow harpists were female. She says people found her “less aggressive,” and her playing “picturesque,” largely because harp is generally considered to have a more delicate quality. But for her, this image has nothing to do with musicians’ real work. She insists that her male classmates never approached her music with preconceived notions based on her gender. 

While studying, she came to emulate the academic style of her male teachers. She found much of her identity as a composer through this kind of imitation. But she worked to maintain her individual style: “I also wanted to feel that I could establish a persona that would feel comfortable to me,” she says. 

Her compositions—and the way she talks about them—are marked by a streak of defiance. When Lash was a composition student in the Ph.D. program at Harvard, she insisted on writing a fugue—a composition in which the melody is introduced and then repeated, while intertwining with other parts. Fugues were popular 350 years ago, in the age of Bach and Handel. Today, most composers do not even consider writing in the form. Martin Bresnick, a colleague at the Yale School of Music, explains that it was “like someone writing an oration in the style of Cicero” today.  

Even when her music does seem to follow the stereotype of the serene harpist, she won’t let you think that for long. She remembers a man telling her that he thought her music was very feminine because “the textures are just so beautiful,” to which she responded, “Does the Impressionist movement seem feminine to you because the textures are beautiful?”

Sexism, she says, doesn’t really affect the way she composes. “It’s more about numbers for me, and feeling as though I want to teach by example and be a good colleague,” she says. Just as Lash was allowed to shape her own musical education, she believes that her students find themselves better when they are not explicitly told what to do. “A composer needs to have a very solid sense of himself or herself,” she says.

One of her students, Tiange Zhou, explains that Lash’s focus on students’ individual identities is what made the Yale School of Music such a special place for her. The school gives students “this very big space to do things for themselves. Not only to imitate someone, but to be a person.” 

And it is through music that Lash and Zhou have formed a lasting relationship. For Zhou, Lash is “not only a teacher, but a friend.” More than that, though, Lash is the role model for Zhou that Augusta Read Thomas was for her. When Zhou thinks of Lash, she tells herself, “That is a possibility. That is how a female composer can be.”

Eric Lin is a freshman in Morse College.


**Title: CINDERBLOCK MANOR**
**Page number(s): 6**

“I was born there,” said Damien Mabry, jabbing a finger at a plain cinderblock house. “And now I live there.” This time, he pointed at another residence nearby, nearly identical to the first. 

Mabry and I were standing in the neighborhood of Westville Manor, a public housing complex in the northwest corner of New Haven. It is only a fifteen-minute drive from downtown, but it feels much farther away. It is surrounded on three sides by the dense foliage of West Rock State Park, and its main drag, Wayfarer Street, is a two-lane road that ends in a cul-de-sac. The smaller streets that branch off it are also dead ends. As we stood outside, old newspapers fluttered over the pavement. 

Elm City Communities, formerly known as the Housing Authority of New Haven, is focusing on low-density, suburb-like landscapes like Westville Manor as an alternative to towering urban projects. The approach has proved immensely popular. Though competition for public housing spots is always high, a New Haven Independent article from 2011 recounts how difficult it was to snag a coveted spot in Fair Haven’s Quinnipiac Terrace. Out of the 4,000 who entered the lottery, only 900 struck it lucky and were assigned an apartment. In response, the Housing Authority commissioned a $200 million reconstruction of another low-density complex near West Rock: Westville Manor. 

	Elm City Communities, which operates Westville Manor, calls it a “family development in a countryside setting,” according to its website. Yet a look at the architecture tells a different story. Westville Manor is a labyrinth of right angles and cinderblocks. Though they are designed to look like traditional homes, the units are rowhouses, with each separated from its neighbors by only a thin interior drywall. The houses, which have between two and five bedrooms, are rarely larger than 900 square feet. In an article in the New Haven Register, Connecticut architect Duo Dickinson noted that these new complexes are “blank and soulless,” and deprived residents of “pride of ownership.” 

But Mabry talks about other, more pressing issues. A number of times, he has had to report water and electricity failures in his house to Elm City Communities. With ongoing structural problems—and a recent spike in violence—at Westville Manor, the “soullessness” of the houses might be the least of inhabitants’ concerns. When I visited in September, broken windows were boarded up with cardboard. Water heaters were rusted. Some houses had such little floor space that the occupants chose to convert the utility room into a bedroom. I saw an astonishing array of makeshift remedies to cover up damage, from windows bandaged with duct tape to twine suspending basement drainpipes.

Other tenants have encountered worse. In September 2013, the plaster ceiling in resident Debbie Hill’s house collapsed. One month later, Jeanette Melton, another resident, contacted New Haven Legal Assistance when she noticed water seeping through the cracks in her ceiling, the New Haven Independent reported. The attorneys discovered black mold, crumbling walls, and corroded floorboards in Melton’s household, but couldn’t go further: They lacked adequate resources and evidence. Amy Marx, an attorney with legal assistance, explained that the tenants’ rental PHOTO BY JENNIFER LU.



**Westville Manor: A Community in Crisis**
**Author: Nate Steinberg**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
OCTOBER 2014
7
paperwork was incomplete, meaning that the case 
would be hard to defend in court. Nearly a year later, 
no legal action has been taken. 

Residents of Westville Manor often end up tangled 
up in bureaucracy. In the 1950s, the city of New Haven 
owned, operated, and repaired all of its own low-
income property. Later, grossly underfunded, the city 
council began to distribute housing funds to private 
landlords through the Section 8 program rather than 
investigating new budget-balancing methods. This 
new jointly operated system has created a communi­
cation gap, not only between the public and private 
sectors, but between the management and the inhab­
itants. One tenant gestured at a huge stack of paper­
work on her kitchen table, telling me how little of it 
she understood.

And tenants feel that the management’s account­
ability has only worsened. Another Wayfarer Street 
resident, who asked to remain anonymous, described 
a severe cockroach infiltration on the ground floor 
of her house. “I’m not going to report it, because 
it’s never going to get fixed anyways,” she remarked. 
“The unit sends someone to come look; then I never 
hear back no matter how often I call.”  
I called Elm City Communities myself, and a rep­
resentative told me that some of residents’ problems 
were fixed. Debbie Hill confirmed that her ceiling has 
indeed been repaired. But when I asked further ques­
tions about the state of the complex, I was told to con­
tact another representative. When, after many tries, I 
got in touch with him, he told that I should stop call­
ing him and directed me back to the first. The Housing 
Authority’s limited staff seemed too overworked to 
comment further. 

Meanwhile, a more dangerous problem has 
remained unaddressed in the streets of Westville 
Manor: crime and gun violence. One tenant told a 
story of two residents robbing their next-door neigh­
bors. Mabry, whose 7-year-old cousin was shot within 
the complex in August, believes that residents from 
nearby Dixwell and Newhallville have often been the 
perpetrators of these crimes. Another tenant remarked 
that outsiders come to the neighborhood in swarms, 
bringing violence and chaos. In late May, four shoot­
ings were reported within a seven-day period, and 
New Haven police sirens wailed ceaselessly in 
Westville Manor. 

Violence can be a chronic problem in New Haven’s 
low-income neighborhoods, one that even outside 
organizations’ best efforts can’t solve. In 2000, Joanne 
Sciulli FES ’96, founded an organization called Solar 
Youth to offer children between nine and thirteen 
programs that focus on cooperation, tolerance, com­
munity service, and leadership. They began neighbor­
hood-based programs in Westville Manor in 200W8, 
with weekly activities ranging from bike rides to reviv­
ing the ecosystems of nearby ponds. But the staff saw 
the realities of Westville Manor crime firsthand when 
the Solar Youth house was burglarized several times 
in 2009. 

After this summer’s violence, Sciulli began to post 
banners around the neighborhood. One reads, “YOU 
ARE IMPORTANT TO US.” Another reads, “GUNS KILL, 
SO KEEP OFF.” 

One tenant further down Wayfarer Street said that 
Elm City Communities is unresponsive and unhelpful 
on issues of both crime and internal damage. “They 
send out a van daily to patrol the streets and help out, 
but a single employee can’t really do much,” said 
the resident. 

The tenants feel as though they have been pushed 
aside. A few told me they plan to leave the unit within 
the year, planning to move to more urban areas of 
the city, but most do not have the means to move 
elsewhere. For Mabry, though, it is a question of alle­
giance to the neighborhood where he has lived for 
twenty-eight years. “There’s a community here that 
nobody else ever gonna see but we who live in it 
because nobody bother to fix it,” he said. 

But for the sake of home, he will stay and wait 
for repairs to come. “I’m good with it here,” he 
said. “We’re a tight community. We take no bullshit 
from no one.”
Nate Steinberg is a sophomore 
in Timothy Dwight College.


**The Prophets’ Network**
**Author: Arizona Greene**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

THE NEW JOURNAL
8
W
in Bassett caught Father 
Tony Jarvis just as he 
was leaving his office at the Yale 
Divinity School last April. Jarvis 
was in a hurry, and Bassett asked 
for a second of his time. They went 
inside and sat down. After years of 
working in law, Bassett had been 
accepted into the Yale Divinity 
School, and he was visiting for 
the admitted students’ weekend. 
But he still didn’t think he could 
enroll. He was terrified of starting 
over, of leaving everything behind 
in North Carolina, the only place 
he had ever called home.
“Bassett, that’s why you have 
to come here,” Bassett remem­
bers Father Jarvis telling him. “It’s 
good that you’re afraid of it. Every 
major step in my life, I have been 
deathly afraid to do what I was 
about to do.”
Bassett is now in his sec­
ond year at Yale Divinity School 
(YDS), getting his Masters of Arts 
in Religion, with a concentra­
tion in literature. But he is also a 
Profit. Not a “prophet”—Bassett is 
a member of the Former Profits, a 
social organization at the divinity 
school that brings together stu­
dents who had previously pursued 
other careers. Members range from 
ex-bankers to ex-teachers to ex-
photographers. Some used to own 
dance studios. Others used to work 
on Wall Street. Many members are 
commuters, some from as far as 
Boston. They have left behind often-
lucrative careers for late-life study 
of theology, and Former Profits 
eases the transition.
Many Profits feel like they are 
giving up everything familiar for 
something uncertain. The partici­
pants’ desires to help each other 
through the potentially difficult 
transition serve as the foundation 
for Former Profits. Though they 
come from diverse backgrounds, 
together they can admit to their 
doubts about whether they have 
made the right choice in coming to 
divinity school.
The group recently had it 
first meeting of the year, a pizza 
lunch, in the common room of the 
Divinity School. Over lunch, the 
new students got to know return­
ing members. At the next meeting, 
a guest speaker will talk about what 
it’s like to adjust to a new career 
path, long after they thought they 
had chosen one for life.  
Bassett’s story is similar to 
those of other Profits: He moved 
from one kind of job to another 
in search of a concrete way to be 
of service. As an undergraduate, 
Bassett studied electrical engi­
neering at North Carolina State 
University, but halfway through, 
he realized that he had no inter­
est in becoming an engineer. He 
then decided to go to law school 
to become a patent attorney, which 
requires degrees in both engineer­
ing and law. He worked for eight 
months as a low level associate in a 
large international patent law firm 
in North Carolina before leaving, 
dissatisfied with the experience.
“I was tucked in an office 
writing memos that clients would 
likely never see. I wasn’t getting a 
lot of human interaction,” he said.
He left the job to work as 
an Assistant District Attorney in 
Raleigh, North Carolina. He wanted 
to become a law professor, and he 
thought the job would help him 
get there. But once again, he found 
himself dissatisfied.
“I experienced a lot of moral 
distress, particularly with young 
kids and low level drug crime,” 
Bassett said. “I found myself coun­
seling and even pastoring these 
kids, trying to keep them out of 
jail instead of putting them in.” 
Looking for alternative ways 
to serve children, Bassett discov­
ered Yale’s Education Leadership 
and Ministry Program, founded by 
Father Jarvis. This certificate pro­
gram, which supplements Bassett’s 
MAR degree, prepares students 
to pursue vocations as chaplains, 
administrators, 
teachers, 
and 
coaches in independent schools. 
Bassett hopes to work in an inde­
pendent primary school so that 
he can help kids with education 
instead of punishing them in the 
justice system. 
He studies with a clear focus 
on where he is headed, a quality 
that seems to separate profits from 
many of the students who arrived 
at YDS right out of college. “When 
I was in law school, the people 
who had been out in the real world 
a couple years always treated their 
schooling more seriously, and I 
really envied them,” Bassett said. 
“And now I see exactly what that 
looks like.”
Many of the Former Profits 
are no strangers to the world of 
religion, even if a life of ministry 
may not have crossed their minds 
before. Cheryl Bundy, a fourth 
year part-time student pursuing a 
Masters of Arts in Religion, worked 
on Wall Street for twelve years and 
as a fundraiser in the non-profit 
world for another twelve. After 
September 11, she worked at St. 
James Episcopal Church in New 
York City doing education and 
outreach. In 2009, she moved 
to Connecticut with her fam­
ily and couldn’t find a job that 
interested her.
“I was forty-four, and I finally 
asked myself, ‘What do you really 
want to do? What makes your 
heart tick?’” she said.
Partly because of how much 
she loved her work at St. James, 
she decided to study theology 
at YDS.

Some 
students 
have 
spent their entire lives in service 
to their faith before joining the 
Profits. Carlos Insignares is cur­
rently in his second year of stud­
ies to earn a Masters in Divinity, 
a three-year degree that prepares 
him for ordination and minis­
try. He has served in the ministry 
since age twelve, as a liturgical 
committee member, catechist, and 
confirmation teacher. 
I asked Insignares why, despite 
having been so involved in minis­
try all his life, he had waited until 
the age of fifty to seek ordina­
tion. He responded that this was 
not his first time pursuing priest­
hood. In the fall of 1993, after 
WIN BASSETT TRANSITIONED FROM A CAREER IN LAW 
TO THE YALE DIVINITY SCHOOL. PHOTO BY JENNIFER LU.



**Music for the Royal Wedding and More**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The Choir of Westminster Abbey
James O’Donnell, conductor
Daniel Cook, organ
saturday, november 1 · 5 pm
Woolsey Hall
500 College St., New Haven
Both events are free; no tickets required. ism.yale.edu


**The Poet Laureate of the United States Reads from His Work**

Charles Wright, poet
tuesday, november 11 · 5:30 pm
Yale University Art Gallery Auditorium
201 York St., New Haven
yale institute of sacred music presents


**Former Profits**
**Author: Arizona Greene**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

day have again. The standard office workdays have 
been left behind. 
“We have had wonderful jobs.” Insignares says. 
“We have given them up to be here.”
 “It’s incredibly scary the whole way. I’m afraid of 
disappointing my parents, disappointing former men­
tors in the fields I left,” Bassett admits.
What keeps them together is the fact that they 
have looked elsewhere before coming here. No matter 
their past professions, they have stumbled upon simi­
lar challenges. As Insignares said, “We bring in a slew 
of experiences that can really only come with time.” 
Even as he joins the other Former Profits for 
friendship and advice, his fear of uncertainty remains. 
Insignares and his classmates are looking into the 
unknown without much control over their futures. 
The faith that inspired them to turn to Divinity School, 
along with the community created by the Former 
Profits, will have to guide them toward the light.
Arizona Greene is a freshman 
in Saybrook College.
receiving his bachelors in elementary education, 
he entered a Catholic seminary and took a job as a 
Catholic schoolteacher.
“I was in seminary, in the Roman Catholic semi­
nary, and they found out I was gay. They asked me to 
leave, so I did—on a Saturday night, with no place to 
go. I was left alone and rejected.” 
Unemployed, Insignares went back to his 
alma mater, St. Thomas University. He received his 
Master’s in Guidance and Counseling and taught 
for two years at a public school before taking a job 
as a guidance counselor.
No longer in the Catholic Church, he decided to 
find somewhere he could feel free, where he did not 
have to worry about his sexual orientation. This led 
him to an Episcopal church. Insignares considered 
himself too old to enter the priesthood, but his spiri­
tual director told him it was never too late. 
The Profits are entering a world where the steady 
paychecks, healthcare, and dental insurance they 
were used to are now luxuries they’d like to one 


**When a Cop Calls**
**Author: Alexandra Golden**
**Page number(s): 12**

O
n a Tuesday afternoon in September, Shafiq 
Abdussabur stands transfixed by one image on 
the wall of his office. It’s a hazy photograph of six 
boys playing tug-of-war, their smiles wide, their eyes 
focused on victory.
“We lost him,” Abdussabur says, pointing to 
the boy leading the pack. “He was killed two years 
after this photo was taken. And him, too,” he adds, 
pointing to another boy. Abdussabur’s own son, 
now 18, is also in the photo, standing near the oth­
ers. “I wish I could have saved every kid. I saved the 
ones that I could.”
Abdussabur proceeds to dig into boxes on 
the floor and pull out old issues of the New Haven 
Register. They date from 2007 to 2009, and all of 
them tell stories of shootings. One of the articles is 
about Abdussabur’s cousin. She was shot and killed 
just two blocks from his office on Ashmun Street. In 
Abdussabur’s city, violence is personal.
The tug-of-war photo was taken on a camping trip 
with CTRibat, a violence prevention program for youths 
aged 8 to 14 that Abdussabur founded in 2006. “Ribat” 
means “retreat” in Arabic; the program’s name stands 
for “Children and Teen Retreat.” The program is dedi­
cated to building boys’ confidence and self-respect, to 
help them deal with the challenges of life in an urban 
setting without becoming involved in guns, gangs, 
or drugs.
CTRibat is just one of the many social pro­
grams Abdussabur has implemented during his 
career. He is a Dixwell beat cop, spending his days 
walking around the neighborhood and getting 
to know its residents. In his off hours, he works 
on solutions to the problems he sees every day in 
the streets. 
Abdussabur now lives in Beaver Hills, a New 
Haven neighborhood west of Dixwell, with his wife, 
Mubarakah Ibrahim, who is a personal trainer, and 
their four children. He was born in 1967, when his 
mother was 15 years old. Abdussabur grew up “like 
an outdoors kid,” growing up on his grandparents’ 
farm in West Haven, he says. At the time, long before 
his conversion from Baptist Christianity to Islam, 
he went by the name Thomas Fulcher Johnson. He 
spent a lot of time with his grandparents while his 
mother worked as a teacher’s aide. Wiggling his 
shoulders and sitting up in his chair with pristine 
posture, he says his grandmother always carried her­
self like “an aristocrat,” even though she didn’t finish 
eighth grade. Abdussabur spent childhood mornings 
with her, drinking coffee from fine china mugs and 
reciting his prayers.
When Abdussabur was just 5 years old, his 
mother brought him to a Black Panther rally on the 
New Haven Green. The police were there, “Ferguson-
style,” he recalls. Abdussabur considers his mother’s 
participation in activism as his “blueprint for social 
justice work.”
At his elementary school, Helene Grant School, 
fights broke out frequently. He wanted to be able to 



**Title: Shafiq Abdussabur: Bridging the Gap**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
OCTOBER 2014
13
focus on learning without worrying about his safety, 
so he left after fourth grade and enrolled in Saint 
Aedan’s, a Catholic school. He was one of only two 
black students, and he recalls an incident in sixth 
grade when a student reading aloud from the textbook 
read the word “Negro.” Abdussabur raised his hand 
to correct him.
“Now, it’s colored, not Negro,” Abdussabur said.
The teacher shushed him, but Abdussabur 
continued to shout out “colored” each time he 
heard “Negro.” Eventually, his teacher kicked him 
out of the classroom.
Abdussabur scowls as he impersonates her, 
“You’re a disgrace to your race! Martin Luther King Jr. 
would be rolling in his grave!” 
The memory stings, and he pauses for a moment. 
Then his liveliness returns, and he chuckles, “I think I 
might have spent all of sixth grade in the hall!”  
Abdussabur thrived at Notre Dame, a private, 
Catholic, high school in West Haven where he ran 
track, studied painting, and conducted the school 
orchestra. Most of his peers were white, but “at 
Notre Dame, you were a Notre Dame Knight first 
and foremost,” he says. “They made no distinction 
between black and white. They only cared about the 
green and yellow.” 
Abdussabur maintained friendships with both 
black and white students all through high school. He 
recalls how he once went fishing with a white friend 
from Notre Dame. On the boat, they ate ravioli out of 
a can and drank blackberry brandy. Meanwhile, few 
of his black friends were making it beyond the city 
limits. These different experiences, he said, made him 
“culturally limitless.” He was learning how to connect


SHAFIQ ABDUSSABUR WITH HIS GRANDMOTHER AFTER BEING SWORN IN AS PRESIDENT OF THE 
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF BLACK LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS. PHOTO BY ALLAN APPEL.


with people, regardless of their class or race, which 
would serve him well on the streets of Dixwell.
After winning a Congressional art award for 
one of his acrylic paintings, Abdussabur was offered 
a scholarship to the Rhode Island School of Design. 
He chose instead to accept a track scholarship at the 
University of West Georgia. His stepfather had devel­
oped a drinking problem, and he was ready to get 
away from home. 
At the University of West Georgia, Abdussabur 
led a successful campaign to convince the university 
to divest from South Africa to protest apartheid. He 
also served as head of the Black Student Alliance. But 
Abdussabur recalls a staggeringly high dropout rate 
among black students after freshman year.
The university’s dean quickly became acquainted 
with Abdussabur, who was 
known for stirring up trou­
ble with his activism. In 
his junior year, his scholar­
ship funds disappeared due 
to issues with the paper­
work, he said, forcing him 
to leave.
After 
leaving 
West 
Georgia, he used his last $300 
to start Boldminds, an art and 
literature publishing com­
pany still in existence today. 
They also produced wooden 
medallions bearing nation­
alist African images such 
as Nefertiti heads and portraits of Nelson Mandela. 
Within three years, he had sold over 10,000 medal­
lions. He saw the objects as something that “people 
could hold onto and talk about and discuss,” prompting 
new conversations.
Abdussabur returned to New Haven early in 1991, 
only to find it devastated by the crack epidemic. He was 
shocked by how much the city had changed. “It was 
like a nuclear narcotic zone,” he says. He observed dis­
turbing police brutality at the time, which motivated 
him to form the Civilian Review Board to monitor the 
policy department.
The then-police chief Nicholas Pastore was look­
ing to restructure the department and recruit more 
community policemen. He asked Abdussabur if he 
was interested in becoming a cop. Abdussabur said 
yes, and with that, he joined the ranks of the very 
institution that so frustrated him. “I put on armor to 
help our community recover,” he says. 
In his first year as a police officer, he participated 
in the Yale Child Study Officer Fellowship program. 
He and the other participants would meet with Yale 
clinicians to address traumatic exposure to violence in 
children and families. After Abdussabur had spoken in 
a meeting, a white Yale clinician commented, “Wow! 
You’re amazingly articulate!” Though she intended it as 
a compliment, Abdussabur was insulted and shocked. 
“Being black and successful in America should not be 
a surprise to anybody,” he says. He calls that kind of 
“cultural disconnect” an “invisible barrier” between 
communities, one of many that he encounters. But he 
doesn’t let these things stand in his way. “Because I 
refused to recognize those invisible barriers, I didn’t 
create my own barriers.”
Of the fifty-five male students 
in CTRibat’s 2006 summer pilot 
program, approximately ninety-
five percent resided in Dixwell. 
Seventy-one percent lived in a 
single parent family, and nearly 
three-fourths lived in households 
where the total yearly income 
was under $25,000.
Abdussabur 
explains 
that 
about ninety percent of the 
African-American males who 
die by gun violence are shot 
within three blocks of where they grew up or where 
they live. These teenagers live in small worlds. Gang 
boundaries, police violence, probation measures, 
security concerns, and social status confine their 
movement. Just venturing beyond the block can be 
dangerous. So he takes them on trips outside of the 
city. Abdussabur raises his arms up over his head in 
a sweeping gesture and booms, “Camping takes 
you out!”
But then he gets serious and puts his hands in his 
lap. “There are so many nice places in New Haven for 
young people to experience,” he adds. “It’s a tragedy 
that so many African-American young men in the city 
only get to experience the dark side of New Haven.” 
Abdussabur ensures that his own children participate 
in these programs, too. He tells them, “You’re not bet­
ter than these kids, you’re just better off.”


HE RETURNED TO 
NEW HAVEN IN 1991, 
ONLY TO FIND IT 
DEVASTATED BY THE 
CRACK EPIDEMIC. 
... “IT WAS LIKE A 
NUCLEAR NARCOTIC 
ZONE.”


In addition to camping, CTRibat participants do 
artwork, go to the movies, and talk about anything 
and everything, from racial profiling to how they’re 
doing in school. By exposing them to different types 
of activities, Abdussabur says, the program provides 
alternatives to violence. In 2005, Abdussabur also 
founded New Haven Guardians, a fraternal organiza­
tion of Elm City African-American officers who host 
activities with CTRibat.
One goal guides Abdussabur’s work. “I aim to 
reduce the sea of agitation between law enforcement 
and the urban community and use anxiety reduc­
tion to empower that community,” Abdussabur says, 
his voice rising. “Right now, young black males feel 
oppressed, not empowered. No one is walking you 
through what to do when the police stop you. That’s 
not empowerment. That’s a set-up. That’s dangerous.” 
In the first half of 2014, seven homicides and thirty 
non-fatal shootings were reported 
in New Haven. In just two and a 
half weeks between Aug. 1 and Aug. 
18, 2014, there were four reported 
homicides and five non-fatal shoot­
ings. Almost all of the victims were 
people of color.
As both a resident of the city 
and a policeman entrusted to 
keep the city safe, Abdussabur 
seeks to address these racial con­
flicts by bridging the gap between 
the community and the police 
department. Doug Bethea, a community activ­
ists, and founder of the Nation Drill and Drum 
Squad Corps, a youth mentoring program that 
teaches kids discipline through percussion music, 
first met Abdussabur fifteen years ago. Abdussabur, 
Bethea says, was always looking for ways to engage 
the community.
“Shafiq is the perfect model for [community 
policing], plain and simple.” Bethea said. He thinks 
that other officers in the force have learned from 
Abdussabur to overcome the tension and mistrust 
that exists between officers and residents. Even sim­
ple things—like buying a kid a pair of shoes, host­
ing a Christmas party, or helping someone with a 
job search—can have a big impact. Bethea, who dealt 
with the death of his own son by gun violence, says, 
“I know his kids, he knows my kids… he was work­
ing for me, speaking up for me.”
As his career progressed, Abdussabur turned to 
writing to share his insights and knowledge with 
a larger audience. His 2009 book, A Black Man’s 
Guide to Law Enforcement in America, recounts 
multiple instances of police shootings and arrests 
involving unarmed black males. It also offers 
practical advice about avoiding run-ins with the 
criminal justice system.
Many incidents of police violence, he writes, 
occur because of “an officer’s inability to identify, 
understand, and effectively communicate with a spe­
cific population (commonly Black) within the urban 
sectors of the United States.”
This communication difficulty stems in part from 
stereotypes that police officers have of black men and 
that black men reinforce.
“Not only are you driving the car smoking weed, 
but you’re blasting music, you have a funky attitude, 
and then when the police do pull 
you over, you wanna go into a 
whole debate,” Abdussabur said.  
“That behavior feeds into the 
stereotype that sets you up for 
the profile of a criminal. Now 
I’m not saying that I agree with 
that profile. But it is the profile 
that is currently being fed to law 
enforcement.” 
He said that police offi­
cers get most of their train­
ing on the job. So when 
young black men behave poorly with police, 
they are training police to believe that they 
are causing trouble.
“Don’t give the police ammunition,” he laughs. 
“They’ve got enough!” 
The book also offers guidance for those already 
charged with an offense. “Wear a lot of deodorant 
[in court] because you will probably be nervous… 
Do not wear gold fronts (gold teeth inserts)… the 
more conservative your hair style, the better,” he 
writes. “They don’t deal with you based on what 
you know; they deal with you based on what they 
know.” It’s the black male’s job, he says, to avoid pro­
jecting an image that aligns with the jury’s racialized 
conceptions—a misunderstanding that often ends 
with a guilty verdict.
His philosophy can be controversial. “Some 
black politicians in general have not agreed with 


“BEFORE THE 
DISASTER 
HAPPENS, WHAT 
CAN WE DO?”



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Alexandra Golden**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
my approach to addressing racial profiling by plac­
ing some of the ownership on the black community,” 
he concedes. Abdussabur admits that his solutions are 
most often embraced by white suburbanites, African-
American women, and African-American men 35 
years or older. But for his target audience—young 
black males—this issue is subject to debate. 

Some of Abdussabur’s colleagues also disagree 
with his no-excuses approach. Barbara Fair, a good 
friend of Abdussabur and a grassroots advocate for 
criminal justice and prison reform, mentions an inci­
dent between her daughter and a New Haven police­
man. As her daughter was driving to class at Gateway 
Community College, the policeman approached her 
without reason. Worried about being late to class, 
she threw her hands up in frustration. The police­
man asked her if she had a problem, to which she 
replied, “No, do you have a problem?” He grabbed 
the handle of her car door, which, she said, was, 
thankfully, locked. 

“Shafiq might have told her ‘don’t say nothing,’” 
Fair laughs. “But I don’t have that mentality. I don’t 
feel obligated to respect the man in blue if he doesn’t 
respect me back.” 

Preventing these incidents from happening 
in the first place, Abdussabur emphasizes, is ideal. 
“Before the disaster happens, what can we do?” 
he asks. 

But now, eighteen months away from retirement, 
Abdussabur said that family and school are at the cen­
ter of his life. Abdussabur is currently finishing his 
degree at Charter Oak State College in New Britain. 
He also plans to do more writing and consulting that 
will address racial profiling.

Despite the success of Abdussabur’s programs, 
New Haven and the rest of the country have a long 
way to go. Ferguson, he says, was a wake-up call. 
He shuffles some paper on the desk and looks me 
straight in the eye. “We’re procrastinating, and we’ve 
got work to do.” 
Alexandra Golden is a sophomore 
in Trumbull College.



**Title: The Miniature Holy Land**
**Author: Libbie Katsev**
**Page number(s): 17-18**

“W
ARNING: Travel at your own risk. Holy Land 
U.S.A. under construction.” A headless statue 
of Jesus watches over a path of broken asphalt. The 
path winds past the sign, through the entrance arches 
and around the hill, which is ringed by a low wall. 
People break off from the crowd. Even the girls in flats 
and skirts climb the wall and begin picking their way 
through the remains of a miniature Bethlehem. Under 
fallen trees, I catch of a glimpse of broken steps lead­
ing up through the rubble.

This Bethlehem is nestled in the hills of Waterbury, 
Conn. It marks the beginning of Jesus’ life, which 
Holy Land USA traces from birthplace to tomb. The 
park has been closed since 1984, but a restoration 
effort is now underway. There’s no set timeline for the 
park’s reopening, but board members expect it to take 
years. In September, Holy Land opened to visitors for 
one afternoon.

In the 1950s, John Greco, a local attorney, 
built Holy Land USA on eighteen acres of land 
near his hilltop home overlooking the city. 
“No matter how much money he had, he devoted 
every penny into Holy Land, and he lived like Mother 
Teresa did. Everything was for God,” says board mem­
ber Rebecca Greco Calabrese, Greco’s great-niece. 
“When you were with him, you felt holy...you felt it, 
coming out of his pores.”

The park’s buildings, constructed from old appli­
ances, chicken wire, and plaster, are just a few feet tall, 
placed in clusters to depict different Biblical events. 
Most have collapsed. Those that still stand are pale, 
with little arched doors and windows. They cover the 
hill, competing with the twisted pines, birches, cat­
tails, and thistles that have overrun the park. 
“It was beautiful for a while,” says a white-haired 
woman dressed in black as she waits for a shuttle to 
the Mass. “There was almost a reverence about the 
place.” In the park’s heyday, buses brought forty thou­
sand visitors a year from all over the U.S. and around 
the world.

When Greco died, the park was entrusted to 
a group of nuns, the Religious Teachers Filippini. 
The nuns eventually put the property up for sale in 
2013, and Mayor Neil O’Leary and local business­
man Fritz Blasius bought the property, planning to 
restore it. The restoration progresses in bursts, as its
 limited funding allows.

They set their milestones based on the liturgi­
cal calendar. First, they restored the cross in time for 
Christmas. Then they focused on clearing the over­
growth in time for the Feast of the Exaltation of the 
Holy Cross, which commemorates St. Helena’s discov­
ery of the cross on which Jesus was crucified. Chuck 
Pagano, president of Holy Land’s board of directors, 
tells me that in the days leading up to the my visit, 
over 7,500 trees were cut down. 

A friend and I still stumble uphill over shrubs 
and fallen branches until I reach Solomon’s tem­
ple, also in disrepair. A sign proclaims: “YOU HAVE 
MADE IT.” The temple is just a cement cylinder split 
in half to reveal a green interior. The cupola lies in 
the center of the wreckage, as though launched by a 
catapult. Next to it, other cubic parts of the structure 



**Title: Holy Land USA**
**Author: Libbie Katsev**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
OCTOBER 2014
19
deteriorate under their domes. 

We walk around the bend to find 
a sign that says: “JESUS IS LAID 
IN THE TOMB.” Unlike most of 
the structures, the building here 
is human-sized, and in relatively 
good repair. Mounds of pine nee­
dles weigh down the corrugated 
roof and the supports are more 
arch than wall, but the mother and 
daughter poking around the tomb 
don’t seem too worried about its 
structural integrity.  

Despite the recent improve­
ments, Holy Land USA still feels 
like it’s stuck in an abandoned 
past—except for the cross, which 
stands at the top of Pine Hill, sur­
rounded by a fence that reads “Our 
Lady of Peace.” The cross is 52 feet 
high and 26 feet wide, illuminated 
by thousands of LED lights, which 
change color with the liturgical 
season. A little way down from 
the hilltop, another, identical cross 
lies face down on the ground next 
to its support system. “That one 
didn’t work,” I hear someone 
explain. From the outside, it looks 
like a fully functional piece. Like 
the other cross, it would have been 
a spiritual symbol visible for miles 
around—if it weren’t for some 
serious flaw.

From Pine Hill’s summit, the 
town of Waterbury looks like 
another small diorama. There is 
St. Anne’s, the Neo-Gothic church 
where the shuttle picked us up, 
and there is the interstate.  On 
December 22 of last year, the road 
overlooking I-84 was closed, and 
thousands of people gathered on 
the bridge to watch as the cross 
was lit for the first time in decades. 
“I’ll be honest, that cross lit at 
night says it all for me,” Pagano 
said, recalling a recent flight back 
to Connecticut. “I’m looking down 
at Connecticut when we’re start­
ing to come down. The first thing 
I recognize, I see that brand new 
cross lit...you know where you’re 
at from twelve thousand feet up.”

As we make our way to the 
park’s chapel, we stop in front 
of the “HOLY LAND U.S.A.” sign, 
white letters with blue edges, out­
lined with drooping Christmas 
lights. 
Comparisons 
to 
the 
Hollywood sign are both unfair 
and unavoidable. At the foot of 
the sign, concrete garden edging 
spells out “HONOR GOD,” form­
ing a trinity with the sign and cross 
in the background. 

The Mass begins at 3:30 p.m., 
and the small chapel is packed with 
hundreds of people. It is a long 
white room with a low ceiling, 
wooden pews, and stained glass 
awning windows—all of them 
with the same design: a crown 
and cross. There are parents with 
children and elderly couples, com­
munity leaders and students from 
the rival Catholic high schools. A 
sort of Christian pop-punk music 
plays as we walk in. Then the Mass 
begins: prayers, songs, a hom­
ily, and Communion. Holy Land, 
the priest explains, is a testament 
to the power of community. After 
the service, Mayor O’Leary gives 
a speech, thanking the hundreds 
of Waterbury residents who have 
supported this project. 

It wasn’t that surprising to 
me that a cross glows in the hills 
overlooking a Connecticut town, 
or that there’s a Christian theme 
park with a sign modeled after 
Hollywood’s. That just seems 
like one natural development of 
religious observance in the U.S. 
What caught me off-guard was 
how handmade Holy Land is: 
the carefully lettered signs, the 
chicken-wire buildings. The decay. 
Sixty years ago, one man wanted 
to create something holy, so he 
built a replica of Bethlehem out 
of plaster and scrap materials. And 
when other people saw what Greco 
was doing, it became sacred to 
them, too.

After the mass, a group of 
Catholic high school students 
ends the festivities by releas­
ing a flock of white doves into 
the air. Members of the crowd 
turn their heads to watch before 
piling back into the buses and 
heading down the hill. 
Libbie Katsev is a sophomore 
in Davenport College.


**Title: UP FOR DEBATE**
**Author: CAROLINE DURLACHER**
**Page number(s): 20-21**

THE NEW JOURNAL
20
Yale coaches bring New Haven teenagers into 
the privileged world of high school debate


--- Page 21 ---

21
“O
pposition? Partner? Speaker?” Matt asks as he 
stands before the judge, taking stock of the 
room before he starts his speech. His partner is seated 
to his right, and his opponents, Zariah Altman and 
Xavier Sottile, are waiting on the left. He places his 
cell phone timer on the conference table. “All right, 
I’ll begin.”

The room is quiet.

“From Russia, to China, to Iran, to Syria, to ISIS, 
far too long the U.S. has been proven to be weak on 
the international stage.” 
His speech aims high, but its wording comes 
across as a bit clunky. 
“There are numerous actions that you could use to 
confront aggressively,” he continues, “including but 
not limited to resuming aerial surveillance flyovers, 
excluding China from the G20 summit, quotas on 
treasury buyback programs, and enforcing extradi­
tion and environmental treaties as written by the U.N.”

It’s a Saturday afternoon, and we are in a class­
room in Yale’s Kline Biology Tower. They’re compet­
ing in the parliamentary debate division at the Yale 
Invitational, an annual tournament hosted by the Yale 
Debate Association each September. Matt and Jack, two 
blond boys from a wealthy Long Island public school, 
are teamed up against Zariah and Xavier, seniors at 
New Haven public schools who are a part of the New 
Haven Urban Debate League (UDL).

UDL is a Yale organization that sends under­
graduates to New Haven public high schools to teach 
competitive debate. The league has been around for 
a decade, but in the last few years it has grown to 
encompass more than thirty-six Yale student coaches 
and a hundred New Haven students. UDL students 
compete against teams from around the state, and 
recently, have started to hold their own against teen­
agers from the affluent suburban districts who have 
traditionally dominated the debate scene.

The stakes are high—this is the fourth round, 
and Zariah and Xavier think that they won their first 
three matches. Opponents are assigned based on a 
win-loss record, and Zariah and Xavier are now up 
against debaters who are older and more experienced 
PHOTOS BY JENNIFER LU



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
--- Page 22 ---

THE NEW JOURNAL
22
than their previous opponents. If they win this round, 
they’ll compete in the final rounds tomorrow.
Today’s resolution: “This House would aggres­
sively confront China.” In the world of debate, “reso­
lutions” are the polemical but vaguely worded state­
ments that students argue for or against. The team 
speaking in favor defines the terms, so the “House” 
could be the U.S. House of Representatives—or, if 
the team gets goofy, it could be defined as the ruling 
dynasty of Mars. These kids, however, are taking it all 
very seriously.

As Matt speaks, his teammate looks down at his 
notes, which he keeps in a leather portfolio. Zariah 
and Xavier bend their heads over their legal pads, 
outlining their opponents’ speeches next to their 
own hastily scribbled arguments. The sheer vol­
ume of information these two boys know—the 
intricacies of international politics, the minutiae of 
U.S. foreign policy—doesn’t intimidate Zariah or 
Xavier. In just a few minutes, they’ll have a chance to 
knock it all down. 

Unlike the other urban debate leagues that began 
to pop up across the country in the 1990s, UDL is 
unaffiliated with the National Association of Urban 
Debate Leagues. Run by a team of volunteer Yale stu­
dents, it operates without the endowment and per­
manent staff that the national association requires for 
membership. Instead, Yale’s UDL relies on students’ 
time and resources from Dwight Hall, the umbrella 
organization for Yale’s social justice groups.

Aaron Zelinsky ’06 LAW ’10, founder of New 
Haven’s UDL, got the idea from his great-uncle 
Seymour Simon, a justice of the Illinois Supreme 
Court in the 1980s who worked on Chicago’s UDL 
program. Simon told Zelinsky about the program at a 
family bar mitzvah, and Zelinsky pitched the idea to 
Reggie Mayo, who was then the superintendent of the 
New Haven public schools, in 2004. 

The program had trouble getting organized, but 
it has grown steadily since then. “We got no money 
from the schools,” Zelinsky says. “The way I sold it 
was: This is zero cost. That was the only reason we 
were able to do it.” Only six high school students 
showed up to the first tournaments, so two Yale stu­
dents had to step in and debate to even out the num­
bers. As late as 2011, when Becca Steinberg ’15, the 
current president of UDL, began coaching students, 
the league had to occasionally cancel tournaments 
because not enough kids had signed up. 

Last semester, UDL expanded into three new 
schools, and this semester, into two more. Twelve 
New Haven public schools are now part of the league, 
and tournaments haven’t been cancelled for lack of 
debaters in at least a year. More than that, UDL kids 
have done well in the last few years at state and 
national tournaments. At the 2014 Osterweis Debate 
Tournament, a free event for Connecticut high school 
students financed by Yale’s Jonathan Edwards College, 
the top two teams were from UDL. In both 2013 and 
2014, the top-ranking junior in the tournament was a 
UDL debater. The most recent was Zariah.

The demographics of the UDL students are very 
different from those of the largely white, affluent 
students who won—or even participated in—these 
competitions prior to the founding of the New Haven 
league. At some UDL schools, such as Wilbur Cross, 
over eighty percent of the students qualify for free 
or reduced-price lunches, and even at schools with 
slightly more middle-class students, such as the 
Sound School, nearly half qualifies. At all but one of 
the twelve schools in which UDL debates, minority 
students outnumber white students. 

John Buell, a civics teacher at the Sound School 
who is the faculty advisor for the UDL team, says the 
kids on the debate team tend to be more academically 
inclined in the first place. UDL has had champion 
debaters ranging from the children of Yale professors 
to kids who are undocumented immigrants, but after 
six hours at school, they all have to sit down and lis­
ten, think hard, and argue. UDL offers students a safe 
space to work through these intellectual challenges 
together. “That feeling of insecurity that a lot of these 
kids can have when they’re suddenly facing wealthy 
white Connecticut out there in a broader venue—they 
don’t get that, they’re sort of just amongst themselves,” 
Buell says. “And the judge is being incredibly sup­
portive in the critiques that they’re giving.”

The idea is not only to train them to debate bet­
ter, but also to learn to communicate effectively out­
side the world of debate. Something that Zelinsky says 
sticks with me: “Not every kid that comes out of the 
UDL is going to be going to Yale College. And not 
everyone has to be…if it helps a kid walk into a job 
interview and be able to present cogent arguments, 
then he’s learned something useful. If it helps some­
one feel a little more confident when they’re speaking, 


--- Page 23 ---

OCTOBER 2014
23
that’s useful. [Maybe] you can help some kids who 
wouldn’t otherwise go to college, or wouldn’t oth­
erwise get a job if they’re not going to go to college.” 

In Zelinsky’s terms, “This is giving people a 
voice. That’s what you’re doing, you’re giving people 
a voice.”

Zariah grew up in Stratford with her mother and 
grandmother. Her father left when she was 2, and she 
only occasionally visited the Native American reserva­
tion where her father’s family was from. She moved 
to New Haven in elementary school, and she started 
competing in UDL when she entered the Sound 
School as a freshman in 2011. In mid-September, 
she along with three other teammates, have come to 
Dwight Hall for their weekly practice. They’re work­
ing with Steinberg to prepare for the upcoming Yale 
Invitational tournament. 

 “Have you guys heard of soft power versus hard 
power?” Steinberg says.

 “Yes,” Zariah immediately jumps in. “In 
California, I did.”

Zariah won a half-tuition scholarship to a debate 
camp at Stanford University last summer because 
she was the highest-ranking junior at the Osterweis 
Debate Tournament. She tells me that she didn’t find 
out till a few weeks ago that her scholarship was only 
half-tuition: Without telling her, Steinberg held a 
bake sale to come up with the other half. 

She is now waiting to hear whether she will have 
the chance to attend an elite university, like Stanford, 
as an undergraduate. In September, she submitted her 
applications to the Questbridge program, which aims 
to connect underprivileged, high-achieving high 
school students with top-ranked schools.

Two of the other debaters, Dhaval and Vishal, have 
to go home early, so Steinberg has Zariah and Xavier 
debate alone against one another. This kind of debate is 
called “Ironman.” After the details are settled and the 
kids have time to prepare their arguments, Steinberg 
gets her cell phone out to time the speeches. 

Before they begin, she says, strict but smiling, 
“Now, Zariah, you’re going to talk slowly and loudly, 
right?” She turns to me and explains. “Ever since 
Zariah got back from California she’s been talking 
incredibly fast, which is how they debate there.” 

When Zariah begins to speak, I understand 
Steinberg’s concern. Zariah is authoritative and 
unapologetic, and she argues very, very fast. She 
brings indignation to whatever argument she takes up. 
When she finishes a claim, she says “right,” not as if 
it’s a question, but as if it’s an affirmation. She holds 
out her arm, palm outward, for the audience’s (or 
the judge’s) recognition, or raises her palm outward, 
like “stop,” to ask them to join in her rejection of the 
opponent’s argument. She looks the judge in the eye.

I’m at the Sound School one afternoon in October, 
waiting for UDL practice to begin. The kids have trick­
led in from their classes, chatting and joking with 
one another. “I love you, Giovanni,” one girl repeat­
edly calls to her schoolmate. “Love you too, girl,” 
he says back.

The resolution for the day’s trial debate is espe­
cially hard. Once the teams have paired up, Steinberg 
writes the resolution on the board: “THBT American 


--- Page 24 ---

24
search engine companies should not do business in 
countries that censor the web.”

“What’s THBT?” a skinny blond kid asks.

“This house believes that,” explains Zariah.

At another table, Steinberg is fielding other 
questions about the resolution, which the kids 
don’t quite understand. 

“Like, you can’t go on Facebook in China,” 
Steinberg explains.

“On Facebook?” the girl responds, shocked. “What!”

Meanwhile, Zariah is trying to get her team’s 
arguments ready. Google is a massive American com­
pany, she says, and it would be hypocritical for the 
American government to promote free speech while 
allowing American companies to cooperate with 
censorship laws.

“Does that make sense?” she asks them.

“Yes…” her teammate says hesitantly, playing with 
his pencil.

“Are you just saying that?” she laughs and explains 
it again. It isn’t at all condescending: She’s older, and 
has been debating for a long time. The younger stu­
dents listen to her.

Most practices go like this. The coaches also have 
monthly curricula, which attempt to fill in the gaps, 
teaching students history, philosophy, and civics that 
their schools haven’t covered. I even learned a new 
phrase at a practice I attended: “Stare decisis,” to stand 
by decisions, usually those by previous courts. 

On the way back from practice, Steinberg tells me 
that when Zariah first started debating three years ago, 
the Sound School team had only two students. The 
coastal school’s popular rowing team still monopo­
lizes many students’ after-school hours, but the debate 
team has grown steadily each year.

I ask what Zariah was like back then, when the 
only other debater was Jake Colavolpe, who is now 
a freshman at Yale. “She was so bad,” Steinberg 
laughs, sheepish. “The first time I saw the two of 
them debate, the topic was, should the New Haven 
Green have a Christmas tree? And their speeches were, 
like, forty-five seconds long.” Not filling the allotted 
time is a sign of a rookie debater, she explains.

How did Zariah get so good? I wonder. Steinberg 
tells me that once they got a little better, Zariah 
and Colavolpe would debate against Yalies. The high 
schoolers would often lose, but they wouldn’t give 
up: “Every time that happened, they worked five 
times harder,” Steinberg says.

I think of the sheer number of hours Steinberg 
has spent with the students she coaches. I meet 
Colavope on a bench in the center of Yale’s campus 
to talk. “Undoubtedly, a very big reason why I’m 
sitting here on this bench is because of them,” says 
Colavolpe, referring to Steinberg and her fellow 
coaches. Steinberg tutored him for the SATs, read 
his college essays, and baked and sold cupcakes to 
raise money for his trip to a debate camp at Stanford, 
the same one Zariah attended the following year. 
“Throughout high school they were just a phone call 
or a text away if I needed them.” It’s no wonder Zariah 
sounds like a younger version of Steinberg when she 
addresses her teammates. 

At the Yale Invitational, the tournament the kids 
had been practicing for, nearly a thousand kids in 
ill-fitting suits are looking for coffee and breakfast. 
Parents are trying to find where tours of the campus 
start. Inside the Sloane Physics Lab, parents take awk­
ward iPhone photos of the kids clustered in the audi­
torium. No New Haven public school student was 
on the roster until 2012, as far as Steinberg knows. 
This year, there are four. 

It’s easy to pick Zariah out of the crowd—she’s 
the only black student competing in parliamentary 
debate. When Steinberg asks Zariah where her suit 
jacket is, she says, “It seemed really big. I’ll wear it 
tomorrow.” Her hair is straightened, kept short 
above her shoulders, and hoop earrings dangle from 
her ears. She’s talking to her debate partner, Xavier, 
a pale kid in a navy suit jacket with bright, fake-brass 
buttons. His black dress shoes remain untied all day. 
Steinberg tells me that New Haven UDL tour­
naments, kept within the New Haven league, are 
normally held on Friday afternoons so that they 
don’t interfere with students’ part-time jobs. Today, 
on a Saturday, some cannot make it to the competition 
because of work. Still, urban teams from Detroit and 
New York City join the four UDL debaters present.

The tournament is late to start, so the kids chat 
for a while. When they start talking about Yale, Vishal 
says, “The funniest thing I’ve heard Yalies say has to 
be—this one Yalie on the Green says to the other, in 
the middle of the Green, ‘Are we in the ghetto yet?’” 
Zariah and Xavier also run into a team from 
UDL’s multi-day summer program, run by Yale stu­
dents, which draws students from across the state. 



**Title:  Untitled**
**Author: Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
One of the students is wearing a grey sheath dress, 
her smooth blond hair tied back in a bun. The girl’s 
fancy new nude patent leather pumps have given 
her a blister, and at one point she texts Steinberg, who 
is helping coordinate the event, to ask if she has a 
Band-Aid. She tells me that she attends the affluent 
Greenwich High School and that she’s applying early 
to Princeton. She has an edge up, because one of her 
parents went there.


This girl’s background confirms what I’ve heard 
about debate culture outside UDL. Zelinsky, the 
founder of UDL, told me, bluntly, “Debate’s a rich 
kids’ sport.” In some way, Yale Debate Association 
capitalizes on the market of kids who are will­
ing to fly across the country to compete; the asso­
ciation organizes the Invitational in part to fundraise 
for their own collegiate competitions. However, at 
Steinberg’s suggestion, the YDA instituted a policy 
that allows some students to waive the tournament 
entry costs, which run $60 to $90 per team.


Xavier starts to flirt with the blonde girl. 
He asks her what the difference is between 
Connecticut Debate Association kids and UDL kids. 
“We’re cooler,” she says, teasing. “What! No,” Xavier 
replies, “We’re the home team!” 


“Let me just explain to you what the social con­
tract is,” says Zariah, as she faces Matt and Jack back 
in the Kline Biology Tower and begins to take a
part their argument.


She criticizes their blinkered vision in foreign 
policy. “So the first point we have is diplomacy,” she 
begins. “Side Government would have you think that 
there’s no other option besides flying over China and 
pissing China off.” Her style is elevated where it has 
to be, but also to the point.


She tells me at the debate camp she’d attended, 
they’d taught her four ways to refute an argument. It 
could be wrong in itself: self-contradictory and invalid. 
It could be unsound: Its logic is valid, but not all of 
its premises are true. Or the claim could just be com­
pletely irrelevant. Finally, it could fail to be persuasive: 
An argument can be valid and sound, but insignificant 
compared to another, stronger argument. “My dream 
is to refute an argument in all four ways,” Zariah says, 
laughing. She comes close this time. She and Xavier 
win the debate round, but they don’t make it to finals. 
There’s a run-off, and they come out behind. 
Still, they’ve come a long way. 
ZARIAH ALTMAN AND XAVIER SOTTILE PREPARE FOR THEIR NEXT ROUND OF DEBATE.



**Page number(s): 26**

On Friday, October 10, in William L. Harkness 
Hall, UDL has its first tournament of the season. It’s 
their largest tournament yet, with seventeen teams 
competing from nine different schools. It’s here, 
with students gathered from all over New Haven, 
that I get a sense of the community of debaters that 
UDK has built in this city. The students filter into 
the small auditorium, most in their school clothes, 
though one or two have put on a suit jacket or a skirt 
for the occasion.


Zariah greets friends from other schools, some of 
whom she’s encouraged to join the league. “I pretty 
much just yell at them until they come,” she says, 
laughing. She teases a childhood friend of hers, Kyle, 
who wants to debate her on his first round. Coming 
from Metropolitan Business Academy, which only 
started a UDL program last semester, he has never 
competed before. Tatiana, another friend, jokes, “He’s 
begging to go against her on his first debate, when 
everyone else in this room is praying not to get her!”


They do end up teamed up against one another, 
and at the end of the debate, Zariah smiles widely at 
Kyle. He looks impressed, if a little shell-shocked. “It 
was so, so great debating with you,” Zariah says to 
him, pinching his cheek affectionately.


At the awards ceremony after three rounds, Zariah 
and Xavier place first in the varsity division, though 
other students take the award for best speaker. At the 
end of the evening, the kids eat the pizza UDL has 
brought for them, and they say their good-byes to the 
kids from other schools. They won’t see them until 
the next tournament, in November. It’s dark and chilly 
outside compared to the halogen lights and central 
heating of the building. Their parents have pulled up 
their cars over on Wall Street to pick them up and 
bring them back from Yale, or they walk with their 
plastic medals around their necks over to the Green to 
catch the bus home.
Caroline Durlacher is a senior 
in Jonathan Edwards College.



**Page number(s): 27**

“I 
never, in a million years, in my right mind, wanted 
to set foot in this school. Then I got here,” wrote 
Kiana M. Hernandez in the Proclamation, Wilbur 
Cross High School’s student newspaper. Hernandez, 
who is now a freshman at Yale, came to Wilbur 
Cross knowing its reputation for having kids who 
“do nothing but fight and bully and argue.” But she 
quickly found out the reputation was false. She took 
rigorous classes and joined a varsity sport team, she 
writes in the June 2014 edition. The issue includes 
everything from reviews of classic films to an edi­
torial on the high price of a college education. 
Students dressed up in prom regalia grin out from 
the cover, preparing to say goodbye to a school 
many of them are sad to leave.


**Title: CRITICAL ANGLE**
**Author: Olivia Klevorn**

What can a single grade say about a school? 
This year, Wilbur Cross earned the label “fail­
ing school” from the Connecticut Coalition for 
Achievement Now (ConnCAN), an advocacy group 
that focuses on improving public education state­
wide. When the organization created its standards-
based ranking of Connecticut public schools, it 
didn’t take school newspapers into account. It didn’t 
ask students if they liked their classmates, had close 
relationships with their teachers, or felt that they 
were being prepared well for college or the work­
force. Instead, it turned to a more simplistic metric: 
test scores. 
Since 2006, ConnCAN has published annual 
“report cards” for public schools in Connecticut. For 
the past three years, it has relied on the “School 

SCARLET LETTERS 
EDWARD WANG



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Olivia Klevorn**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Performance Index,” a system that 
assigns grades based on a school’s 
standardized test scores, to help 
the public understand the available 
data. Of the 944 schools it graded 
across the state, sixty-three failed, 
including ten in New Haven. 
ConnCAN says the reports are 
as a way to commend “schools 
that are providing students with 
a high-quality education regard­
less of race, wealth, or ZIP code.” 
But, as a result, other schools’ 
shortcomings, as measured by test 
scores, are on display. Color-coded 
and printed in large, foreboding 
letters, the report cards make it 
easy to distinguish failing schools 
(marked in red with large Fs next 
to their names), from passing 
ones. And, for each of the three 
years ConnCAN has issued the SPI 
reports, Wilbur Cross has failed. 
But a debate continues: Is this no-
excuses approach the way to get a 
school to turn around?


For Chris Willems, who taught 
at Wilbur Cross from 2005 to 2012, 
criticism of the school is nothing 
new. “When they first started a 
failing school labeling system they 
labeled us ‘dropout factories,’” said 
Willems, referring to a controver­
sial 2007 study by Johns Hopkins 
University. “Yeah, there are a lot of 
challenged children in our school. 
Yeah, there’s a lot of stress. Yeah, 
they’ve had traumatic lives…but, a 
‘dropout factory?’”


The school has seen recent 
improvements. The four-year grad­
uation rate rose to over seventy 
percent in 2012 with the assis­
tance of multi-million dollar state 
grants. But ConnCAN’s improve­
ment grade for the school, which 
measures change in test scores 
from year to year, is a B. Still, the 
B lies at the bottom of a list of Fs 
for student performance in math, 
reading, and science.


Even the district’s highest-
level administrators take issue 
with the system. “Unfortunately, 
the ConnCAN report falls vic­
tim to oversimplification in the 
assignment of grades in ways 
that I think assign blame to edu­
cators and school communities 
that is counterproductive to its 
goal,” New Haven superintendent 
Garth Harries said. 


ConnCAN 
CEO 
Jennifer 
Alexander maintained that the 
report cards’ bold design is meant 
to satisfy the public’s “hunger for 
clear and user-friendly informa­
tion” and to help influence pub­
lic policy. And from a publicity 
perspective, the report cards have 
achieved this goal. According to 
Alexander, they have generated 
a lot of Internet traffic and have 
appeared frequently in local media. 


Borrowing principles from 
the business world, Alexander 
and other reformers believe that 
schools—and 
society—can 
be 
transformed if only we administer 
the right tests, collect the right data, 
and motivate struggling schools to 
move in the right direction. She 
claims that ConnCAN’s list of “suc­
cess story schools”—schools that 
serve kids from underprivileged 
backgrounds but achieve high test 
scores—helps prove that transfor­
mation is possible. “Kids can suc­
ceed at the right level regardless of 
their background if they’re given 
the right opportunities, instruc­
tion, quality of teaching, and sup­
port.” Alexander said. “Our goal 
and job is to prove this.”


“Accountability” is the buzz­
word of the day in education 
policy, and ConnCAN’s reports are 
a symptom of a system that has 
embraced a punitive approach: 
schools can be fixed if they are 
held “accountable” for their short­
comings. Under the No Child 
Left Behind Act of 2001, states 
receive federal funding in order 
to administer standardized tests 
to all public school students. Title 
I Schools like Wilbur Cross, which 
receive additional funding for 
students from low-income fami­
lies, are required to demonstrate 
“Adequate Yearly Progress.” Since 
Connecticut obtained a waiver 
from the Obama administration in 
2012, it has continued to receive 
funding while escaping some of 
NCLB’s strictest and least realistic 
expectations, such as the require­
ment that 100 percent of students 
demonstrate proficiency in reading 
and math by 2015. But in order to 
obtain the waiver, Connecticut 
had to present new methods for 
holding schools accountable. 


Willems, echoing a national 
chorus of educators, believes the 
emphasis on test scores has forced 
teachers and schools to change 
their focus. Labels like the one 
ConnCAN applied to Wilbur Cross 
“encourage a narrowing of the 
curriculum that prevents us from 
creating considerate, intellectu­
ally stimulating environments for 
children at the high school level,” 
Willems said. “We’ve lost arts, 
physical education, music—joy.”  


All three teachers I contacted 
characterize ConnCAN’s rankings 
as outdated and unproductive, but 
their response is not only about 
their own grades; it’s about what 
it means for their students, as well. 
“My instinct is that I really want to 
defend our school against what I 
think is an unfair rating system 
that unfortunately gets too much 
press,” one teacher, who asked to 
remain anonymous, told me.


The numbers also fail to take 
into account the realities of stu­
dents’ lives, and what Willems 
called “the critical thinking skills 
my children need to employ to do 
the incredible things they do”—
while they are “raising children 
on their own, coming to school, 
and working.”


Willems and his fellow teach­
ers are not the only ones who real­
ize the system is broken. Though 
Alexander stands by ConnCAN and 
the report card system, she admit­
ted that she hoped the Connecticut 
public school system would soon 
find a more comprehensive way 
to use testing data. “We know that 
children, if given the opportunity 
to meet high expectations, will 
get there,” she explained. “But 
we know…that they are starting 
from different places. We need to 
develop an accountability system 
that acknowledges those different 
starting places.”  


The editors’ note in the June 
2014 edition of the Proclamation 
reads, “The future of our school 
is not in any person’s hands. Every 
student, 
teacher, 
administrator, 
and staff member can choose to 
move forward. Or we can stagnate.” 
But despite the optimism of its 
students and the determination of 
its faculty, Wilbur Cross will con­
tinue to bear the “failing” label, 
even if it is the grading system 
itself that has failed.  
Olivia Klevorn is a sophomore 
in Silliman College.


**Title: THE BONDS THAT TIE**
**Author: Aaron Mak**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
“I
t’s not just about sex,” J.R. 
Ramos tells me. J.R. is a bald 
man with a full, dark beard. His 
bare, tanned potbelly protrudes 
from under his black leather vest, 
which matches his chaps and 
boots. Most of the other patrons 
here at 168 York Street Café on 
the night of September 5 share 
Ramos’s affinity toward leather 
outfits that expose a lot of skin. 
In fact, their common dress code 
has brought them all together for 
a weekend-long convention for 
gay men who have a penchant for 
leather and BDSM. They’re known 
as “leathermen,” and they have 
come from around the Northeast 
to attend brunches, mixers, a cigar 
social, and seminars on leather 
culture. The main event is the 
Mr. Connecticut Leather contest, 
an annual pageant begun in the 
1970s to select the ambassador for 
Connecticut’s leather community.  
Ramos is one of the judges 
of the contest, and he’s trying to 
explain to me that the leather 
community is not solely dev-
oted to satisfying its participants’

LEFT: OMAR BOOTS WAS CROWNED 
MR. CONNECTICUT LEATHER IN 2013.
PHOTO COURTESY OF OMAR BOOTS.




**Title: THE NEW JOURNAL**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 32**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
THE NEW JOURNAL
32
unorthodox desires: “Ninety per­
cent of the time we’re vanilla. 
Vanilla’s fine, but during the other 
ten percent we add other things to 
it.” The leather community selects 
an ambassador partly to help 
dispel the stereotype of the sex-
obsessed BDSM practitioner. Mr. 
CT Leather is expected to highlight 
the leathermen’s philanthropic 
side by fundraising and bringing 
awareness to local charities.


Ramos appears uncomfortable 
that this party is my first glimpse 
into leather culture, which is 
understandable: The ambience is 
hypersexual. While there is noth­
ing particularly outlandish hap­
pening 
downstairs—just 
forty 
to fifty leathermen socializing 
around your garden-variety bar—
the long, narrow room on the sec­
ond floor is a shrine to BDSM. A 
human-sized birdcage stands next 
to a wooden pillory, a painting of 
a muscular, nude man in repose 
hangs in the center of the room, 
and a folding table towards the 
back holds various whips and pad­
dles. Chains hang from the ceiling, 
and the lights are dimmed.


My eyes keep wandering from 
Ramos to the opposite corner of 
the room, where a man stands fac­
ing the wall with his hands bound 
above his head. He is shirtless and 
his khaki shorts are pulled down 
to his ankles, revealing grey boxer 
briefs. Behind him stands Rick 
Jones, a portly man in his mid-
fifties with a milk-white Mohawk 
and boxed beard, who flogs his 
bare upper back with a cat-o’-
nine-tails whip. Jones—whose 
name has been changed to protect 
his privacy—augments the stan­
dard attire of a black leather vest 
and matching boots with a pair of 
camouflage shorts, giving him the 
look of a punk-rock Santa Claus. 
His disposition is nonchalant; he 
moves the whip haphazardly up 
and down and side to side in the 
same way that he might paint 
his house. Leathermen in various 
states of undress watch and chat.


Jones is the co-founder of CT 
Cruisers, a fraternal organization 
of leathermen. The CT Cruisers are 
helping Mr. CT Leather Inc. hold 
the competition this year, though 
they are known mostly for the “bar 
night” they hold each month. At 
the parties, which are open to the 
public, they put on BDSM dem­
onstrations like the one Jones is 
conducting now to introduce the 
uninitiated to leather culture. “The 
motivation [behind the demon­
strations] is to give men who are 
interested in BDSM a place where 
they can learn in a safe and com­
fortable environment,” Jones says.


At the other end of the room, 
a slender drag queen, also shirtless, 
puts her hands through the pillory. 
This is Harlette Lefleur, the High 
Empress of the Imperial Sovereign 
Court of Connecticut, a charitable 
Hartford-based drag queen group. 
Omar Boots, a muscular man in 
his twenties with an impressive 
mustache, walks up behind Lefleur 
and gently places his leather-clad 
hand on the small of her back. He 
then picks up a paddle and begins 
striking the area around Lefleur’s 
shoulder blades.


Boots won the Mr. CT Leather 
competition last year. His leather 
outfit is more elaborate than the 
others: skin-tight trousers, boots, 
gloves, and a short-sleeve jacket 
that buttons down the front. 
He wears a sash that reads “Mr. 
Connecticut Leather, 2014.” This 
ensemble is called “formal wear,” 
in leather parlance. Compared to 
Jones’s, Boots’s technique seems 
much more intimate. His move­
ments are slow and deliberate, and 
he pauses now and then to kiss 
the nape of Lefleur’s neck. At one



**Title: Mr. CT Leather 2014**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
OCTOBER 2014
33
point he takes a tumbler from a 
table to his left and pours its con­
tents down Lefleur’s back. 

For all the finesse Boots exhib­
its in his demonstration, he is still 
a fairly new to the leather com­
munity; he won last year’s title 
only a few months after join­
ing the group. Like many other 
leathermen, he was introduced to 
the concept of leather and BDSM 
through pornography. “It was 
just a fantasy. I didn’t know there 
was such a thing as a titleholder. I 
thought it was just hot guys wear­
ing leather,” recalls Boots. But the 
summer before last, eight years 
after moving to New Haven, Boots 
asked one of his drag queen friends 
to introduce him to some leather­
men. That was how he found 
CT Cruisers.

During his tenure as Mr. CT 
Leather 2014, he has fundraised for 
AIDS Project New Haven and the 
Downtown Evening Soup Kitchen. 
He is also largely responsible for 
expanding the New-York-based 
Leather Cares Ribbons, a leather 
and HIV/AIDS awareness organi­
zation, into other Northeastern 
states. “The non-sexual part is 
helping the community and doing 
charitable work. The sexual part is 
embracing yourself and exploring 
your kinky side,” says Boots. 

At a morning session titled 
“Boys Will Be Boys,” eighteen 
leathermen gather in the con­
ference room of the Omni New 
Haven 
Hotel, 
hungover 
and 
bleary-eyed. The term “boy,” I 
learn, refers to leathermen who 
prefer taking the submissive role 
in BDSM relationships. Their coun­
terparts, “sirs” such as Boots and 
Jones, are the dominant figures. A 
number of boys told me over the 
weekend that their day jobs come 
with a lot of responsibility—some 
are tech administrators or execu­
tives at consulting firms—and 
they see giving up power in their 
personal relationships as a release 
from their professional lives. 

The 
moderator 
is 
David 
Bielski, the Sergeant at Arms for 
the Leather Boys of New England, 
another BDSM fraternal service 
organization. He starts off by 
explaining, “This is meant to be 
open book. If there’s anything any­
body wants to talk about, we’ll talk 
about it. There’s no real set plan or 
agenda.” He then chuckles, “which 
kind of might be saying I’m not 
too prepared.” 

We go around the room with 
the 
customary 
introductions. 
At my turn I tell them, “I’m a 
student reporter doing a story 
on this whole weekend. Thank 
you for having me.” Jones, to my 
left, interjects, “Well, we haven’t 
had you yet.” The room erupts 
in laughter. 

Leathermen trace their roots 
back to motorcycle gangs and the 
closeted soldiers returning from 
WWII in the 1940s. But the leather 
community, like any other, faces 
the challenge of maintaining its 
customs in an ever-shifting milieu, 
as the so-called New Guard strains 
against the customs of the Old 
Guard. In the early stages of leather 
culture, when being homosexual 
was a punishable offense by law, it 
was dangerous to be involved with 
gay BDSM. Since people risked 
both their professional and their 
social standing, leathermen had 
to proceed with caution. But now, 
in a more liberal society, today’s 
leathermen have realized that 
die-hard traditionalism is unsus­
tainable. They walk the fine line 
between preserving the traditions 
of their seventy-year history while 
also embracing modern trends.  

The sir-boy dynamic requires, 
arguably, more trust than other 
varieties of erotic relationships, 
because of the incredibly intimate 
power exchange that bondage-
related sex involves. Boys give up 
control to their sirs by submit­
ting to constraining and physically 
painful situations, so confidence 
in one’s partner is vital in manag­
ing the inherent risks of BDSM. In 
THIRTY YEARS 
AGO, BOYS 
KNEW THEIR 
PLACE AND 
SIRS KNEW 
THEIR PLACE.



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 34-35**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
the past, the trust that sirs and boys 
had developed through sex natu­
rally lent itself to creating tight-
knit groups of leathermen who 
could help each other evade the 
morality police of earlier decades. 
“Thirty years ago, being a 
boy was a completely different 
experience. There were bound­
aries. Boys knew their place and 
sirs knew their place,” one of the 
older men in the circle comments. 
Relics from this era are still pres­
ent in modern leather culture. The 
sir-boy hierarchy is an obvious 
example, but not the only one. 
At the conference, men also have 
handkerchiefs peeking out from 
their pockets, and leather bands 
around their wrists. Many wear 
either a Muir cap or a padlock col­
lar. The accessories were originally 
covert signals to other leathermen. 
The color of the handkerchief told 
others what sexual act you were 
interested in, while the hand on 
which you wore your leather band 
would communicate whether you 
were dominant or submissive. 
Boys wore padlock collars to signal 
that they were “collared,” or in a 
relationship with a sir, while sirs 
would wear Muir caps as a symbol 
of their position.

With anti-sodomy laws now 
struck down and gay marriage 
gaining legal recognition across 
the country, leather and BDSM 
have become much more socially 
acceptable. As a result, the preex­
isting leather community is facing 
an onslaught of newcomers who 
know nothing about the old cus­
toms. A common complaint is that 
leathermen now indiscriminately 
don the Muir caps, which they 
once had to earn the right to wear. 
The padlock collars that formerly 
symbolized a close bond between 
a sir and his boy have been reduced 
to trinkets that people lock and 
unlock on a whim. Yet correcting 
new members’ faux pas is a chal­
lenge, in part because fewer mem­
bers of the Old Guard remain: “We 
lost a whole generation of people 
to the AIDS scourge,” Bielski notes. 
Social media has also taken 
a toll on leather culture. Where 
it was once necessary to become 
involved with a leather group in 
order to meet potential partners, 
social apps for gay men such as 
Grindr and Recon make it easy to 
find a hookup without joining the 
leather community. Leather gay 
bars, where people used to min­
gle, are slowly falling out of use. 
“People just want to get their fan­
tasy over with and then go home,” 
Jones laments.  One-night stands, 
of course, are not conducive to 
building the sort of trust that 
BDSM requires, but the Internet 
makes them easier to arrange—
and makes BDSM becomes more 
dangerous. Agreeing to let some­
one tie you up and whip you after 
meeting online can be a recipe 
for disaster. 
 Members of the Old Guard 
have founded fraternal organiza­
tions such as CT Cruisers and the 
Leather Boys of New England in 
order to pass down traditions, but 
they are fighting an uphill battle. 
Still, some members of the New 
Guard embrace their customs. 
“The Old Guard is really impor­
tant to me because they have our 


roots, but the New Guard is also 
important because we need to 
accept the new generation. I 
believe in Old Guard and New 
Guard,” Boots says proudly.


Ten hours later, we’re back 
at 168 York Street Café for the 
Mr. Connecticut Leather competi­
tion. The building is packed with 
a menagerie of prominent fig­
ures from every corner of New 
England’s LGBTQ scene. There are 
not just leather boys and sirs; bears, 
cubs, drag queens, monarchs, pups, 
and rubbermen crowd around the 
stage in the café’s patio. Trying to 
discern everyone’s titles and affili­
ations is an impossible exercise in 
queer taxonomy. 

The contest was supposed 
to start at 9 p.m. It’s now 10:15, 
and blood alcohol levels have 
risen. But the bacchanalian feel 
of the night is interrupted when 
the pageant begins, unexpectedly, 
with a eulogy. David Murphy, Mr. 
Connecticut Leather 2006, walks 
onto the narrow stage in formal 
leatherwear. His stage fright is 
visible as he clutches the micro­
phone, looks down at his typed-
out speech, and begins: “On the 
whole, we’re a pretty hardy bunch. 
It’s pretty much impossible to kill 
us. But hey, we lost one of our own 
last year. It’s been a very hard time 
for a lot of us, and I’m going to tell 
you a story.” 

Jayson Scott, Mr. Connecticut 
Leather 2007, passed away in 
2013 from colon cancer. Scott and 
Murphy’s friendship spanned over 
ten years, and Murphy recounts 
how their lives intertwined—how 
Murphy calmed Scott’s nerves 
before his big speech in the 2007 
contest; how Scott used to give 
Murphy’s infant son formula on 
road trips; how Murphy held the 
sick bowl for Scott as he vom­
ited in the last twenty-four hours 
before he passed away; how, in the 
weeks afterward, Murphy had to 
hide Scott’s leather paraphernalia 
from his mother, who, even after 
her son’s death didn’t know about 
his involvement in the leather 
community. The speech ends with 
the unveiling of a disco ball, which 
Scott had requested they display 
for all future contests. After sharing 
a moment of silence, bathed in the 
ball’s glittering light, the leather­
men, bears, and drag queens, tears 
still in their eyes, join together in 
singing the national anthem. 

The rest of the pageant is far 
more light-hearted, featuring porn 
and sex toy raffles, roasts, and lip-
synced renditions of Celine Dion’s 


**Title:  [No Title Specified]**
**Page number(s): 35**

TOP: OMAR BOOTS REFLECTS ON HIS YEAR AS MR. CONNECTICUT LEATHER 2014.
BELOW: DAVID GERARD, THE NEWLY CROWNED MR. CONNECTICUT LEATHER 2015 (CENTER), POSES WITH RUNNERS UP JEFF VICTORIA 
(RIGHT) AND TRELL WALTERS (LEFT). PHOTOS COURTESY OF OMAR BOOTS.


**Page number(s): 36**

JAYSON SCOTT, MR. CONNECTICUT LEATHER 2007
DAVID MURPHY, MR. CONNECTICUT LEATHER 2006
PHOTOS FROM MRCTLEATHER.ORG



**Title: Mr. Connecticut Leather**
**Author: Aaron Mak**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
OCTOBER 2014
37
greatest hits. Then the contest itself 
begins. The three contestants strut 
their stuff in formal wear, bottom-
less chaps, and jock straps—they 
turn around and bend over to 
show off.

But physical appearance mat­
ters little to the judges. Most impor­
tant are the interviews, held in pri­
vate earlier in the day, which ask 
the contestants about their goals in 
representing the community and 
their knowledge of leather history. 
After all, Mr. CT Leather needs to 
be an ambassador for current and 
past leather communities. 

Contestants also give a stump 
speech, and are required to tell 
a dirty story based on a prompt, 
such as: “You’re beginning a scene 
with a judge of your choice. Pick 
a kinky fetish, and include the fol­
lowing three items. The first item 
is a toilet plunger; the second item 
is a feather duster; the third item, 
three marbles.” The stories pose an 
interesting challenge for Susan, the 
sign language interpreter; sign lan­
guage is very literal when it comes 
to erotic subjects, essentially forc­
ing Susan to pantomime sex acts.

As much as this is a night to 
pick a new ambassador, it is also 
an occasion to celebrate Boots’ 
time as Mr. Connecticut Leather. 
Projected on the wall to the left of 
the stage is a slideshow dedicated 
to his year of service; he is shirt­
less in at least half the photos. “I 
want to thank the community for 
opening the door for a new jour­
ney for my life,” Boots says, on the 
verge of tears. “Thank you to the 
leather community; I got a chance 
to explore and see the person I 
really am.” 

After imploring the crowd 
to be accepting of all creeds and 
colors, he removes his sash, his 
head slightly bowed. This is the 
first time I’ve seen him without it; 
he seems mousier now. After the 
crowd takes a moment to cheer, 
the contestants walk onto the stage 
to hear the results. When the win­
ner, David Gerard, is named, Boots 
takes another sash and wraps it 
around the new Mr. Connecticut 
Leather. He gives each contestant a 
hug, raises his hands in applause, 
and exits stage right. 

At 11 a.m. the Sunday after the 
competition, the Imperial Court, 
the Hartford-based drag group, 
holds a victory brunch at the café 
to celebrate Gerard’s title. It’s a 
smaller 
affair—around 
twenty 
people sharing mimosas and eat­
ing eggs and sausage off of alumi­
num trays. Even with the smaller 
crowd, the Court still puts on a 
revue of lip-syncing cross-dressers 
and bears. 

It is difficult to say whether Mr. 
Connecticut Leather, as an institu­
tion, can bring back the decorum 
and values that leather culture has 
lost over the years. In an age when 
leather newcomers are either 
ignorant or uninterested in the 
culture’s foundations, and kinky 
hookups require only a few key­
strokes, Mr. Connecticut Leather 
might be swimming upstream. 

But Boots and Jones and countless 
others are not about to give up and 
allow leather to be reduced to just 
another fetish. For them, being a 
leatherman is so much more.

Toward the end of the pro­
ceedings, the MCs call Boots to 
the stage again. Arsenio Amadis, 
a former leather champion in 
New York and Boots’s close friend, 
declares: “We’re going to cover 
Omar today.” The term “cover” 
refers to the donning of the Muir 
cap. The leather brim may be flip­
pantly worn elsewhere, but at CT 
Leather events, it is given only to 
sirs who demonstrate exceptional 
dedication to the community. 

Boots kneels before Amadis, who 
places the cap upon his head like 
a crown and announces to the 
audience, “I now present to you, 
Sir Omar.” The cap is primarily a 
symbol of his dedication to his 
charitable work—but the fun of 
the pageantry is never lost.

THE REST OF THE 
PAGEANT IS FAR 
MORE LIGHT-
HEARTED, 
FEATURING PORN 
AND SEX TOY 
RAFFLES, ROASTS, 
AND LIP-SYNCED 
RENDITIONS OF 
CELINE DION’S 
GREATEST HITS. 
Aaron Mak is a junior in 
Berkeley College.



**Title: SQUEAK, DON’T EAT ME!**
**Author: Micaela Bullard**
**Page number(s): 38**

THE NEW JOURNAL
38
ENDNOTE
SQUEAK, DON’T EAT ME!
A furry rodent crosses cultural boundaries
M
y first week as a foreign 
college student was filled 
with embarrassing confessions 
about my home country. I told 
my friends that in Peru we’d 
had seventeen presidential can­
didates in our last election, one 
of whom declared himself a 
direct descendant of the warrior 
Inca Pachacutec. In return, they 
vowed to never again complain 
to me about Obamacare. But I 
knew I had crossed a line when I 
told them that, back in Peru, I ate 
guinea pigs.

The reaction was instant: 
wide eyes, gasps, nervous laugh­
ter, disbelief. One of them spat 
out her Mountain Dew. How? 
When? Why? Doesn’t the guilt 
consume you? Doesn’t it keep 
you awake at night? How could 
you, Micaela? It was as if I had 
eaten their grandmothers. 

I found it difficult to under­
stand eating guinea pigs as any­
thing other than completely 
ordinary. In museums in Peru, 
I saw ancient ceramics deco­
rated with portraits of roasted 
rodents. In the Cathedral of Santo 
Domingo at Cusco, I stood in 
awe before the huge painting 
of the Last Supper hanging over 
the altar, in which Jesus Christ 
and his twelve apostles look 
down reverently upon a plate 
of baked guinea pig. The Chavín 
ate them. The Incas ate them. 
The Conquistadores ate them. 
We have eaten them for centuries.

Guinea pig tastes, yes, like 
chicken—with undertones of rab­
bit! But its taste is not the only 
thing that makes it popular in 
Peru. Guinea pig is affordable for 
even the poorest of Peruvians. The 
animals reproduce rapidly, require 
little space, and can subsist off 
of the vegetable scraps of a small 
family. This makes make them ideal 
livestock for subsistence farmers in 
the mountain regions. 

Guinea pigs became popular 
as pets after they were brought to 
Europe from early voyages to the 
Americas. Transported across the 
oceans on Spanish galleons, a grow­
ing number of guinea pigs escaped 
the pot to become the pampered 
companions of the nobility.  

Their descendants now live 
comfortable lives in the homes 
of hundreds of thousands of 
Americans. Friends here tell me 
that the guinea pigs they know 
luxuriate in fully furnished cages 
and know how to perform tricks. 
They are company, not food. That 
they could ever end belly-up with 
a side of sweet potatoes is, under­
standably, horrifying. 

The guinea pigs have taught 
us a lesson in tolerance. They have 
pattered their way up and down 
the barriers of our cultures. My 
friends now know Peruvians have 
a reason for eating their guinea 
pigs, just as I know Americans have 
a reason for teaching tricks to their 
own. Maybe one day my friends 
will taste guinea pig.  Maybe one 
day I’ll get one for a pet. For now, 
my friends will still look askance at 
me every time we pass a squirrel. 

Micaela Bullard is a 
freshman in Calhoun College.
ILLUSTRATION BY IVY SANDERS SCHNEIDER



**No Title Provided**
**Author: No Author Provided**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:

--- Page 40 ---
