Publication date: 10/98
Volume 31, Issue 2

**Title: Media Saturation or Bust**
**Author: Darby Saxbe**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

When I spoke to Debbie Stoller (GRD '87) on a weekday afternoon, she spent the first ten minutes of our conversation poking around under her bed for a favorite shirt and trying to keep her dog away from the UPS man. Not the standard workday for a rising young magazine editor, but then Stoller, who co-founded and co-edits Bust, has always been a bit different. After getting a Ph.D in Psychology of Women, she headed to New York to create websites for Nickelodeon and to work in feminist-friendly media. Bust is more likely to run ads from independent record labels than from cosmetics companies. Its tone-frank, funny, and big-sister hip-recalls old-school _sassy_. Since 1993, Stoller and her partners, Marcelle Karp and designer Laurie Henzel, have turned Bust from a xeroxed zine to a glossy magazine that gets distributed in Borders, prints rants by Courtney Love, and featured Missy Elliot on its last cover. Bust was given several inches of column space in this summer's Time cover story, "Is Feminism Dead?" Although the story's writers concluded that yes, feminism is dead, and that image-oriented pop culture magazines like Bust are part of the problem, Stoller herself contends that the women's movement is alive and well. 

I'm going to put you on speaker phone now. 
Yay! I'm on speaker phone. Why am I on speaker phone? You don't have one of those little phone tape recorder thingies where you can plug it into the phone? Linda Tripp-like, you know. Where is my damn shirt? What's it like in New Haven today? 
It's nice. Kind of one of those New England autumns. 
Yeah ... the sky there was always so beautiful. I lived on Chapel Street, across the street from the art school. I lived upstairs from a Chinese restaurant, across from Jong's. I loved watching the people go back and forth. That was my best apartment. 
So how did you end up at Yale? 
I put myself through college. I went to a really crappy state school because I had to pay for it myself, and I was barely able to swing that, washing dishes at the cafeteria. I wanted out of there so bad that I graduated in two and a half years, and then I applied to all these grad schools. I was interested in going into psychobiology, brain and behavior, and when you go into a field like that, they pay you to be a student, because they expect you to teach and do research. So I knew I wasn't going to have to pay, which is how I could manage to do it. Then Yale called me and I was off in Holland doing research, and I said, of course, of course, I'll come to Yale, that's so exciting-what I wanted for my whole life was to go to a fancy school like that for free. My parents were so overwhelmed-no one in my family had ever gone to an Ivy school. They were so floored and excited, that in the middle of the night after I told them they got worried and thought maybe someone was pulling my leg. In the morning they called Yale to make sure it was true. 
How did you get into doing psychology of women? 
After about two years of doing psychobiology, I realized that it wasn't for me-I was good at it, but when I started at Yale I was 20, and I was kind of a big fuck-up. Finally, finally I had made it to the cool school and I was so happy and so excited. My college had been full of frat boys and sorority girls and I was like the outcast freak, and at Yale I was meeting all these great people and it was like an embarrassment of riches, just overwhelming. I spent more time hanging out at the cafes and the bars and running around enjoying myself than I did at the lab. I realized pretty early on that I wasn't going to be able to cut the lifestyle that science required of me-I wasn't going to be able to spend all my


---

time in these little darkened laboratories. 

Because there were so many cool things to do at Yale, I started taking other classes outside my department and I took classes in video-making. I started to take film theory classes. I was interested in all that stuff, and then I just felt like I didn't really fit in with the psychobiology people. I had this girlfriend in the grad school, too, in Developmental Psychology, and we were both feminists and spent a lot of time thinking about that stuff and taking classes outside our department. At that time, there was all this work going on about feminist film theory-people were always talking about images of sex objects, what harm it does to women. Feminists were writing about pornography, and it was a very hot topic. Some film theorists said, when you show women as a sex object on the screen, it gives the man who's watching it power, it gives him a chance to feel like he's getting to consume that image and the woman is powerless. But other theorists were writing and saying, no, when you have images like that the woman is really powerful and the men feel really scared. As someone with a research background, I thought, well, this is something I could really research and find an answer to. So my best friend and I sort of created a make-believe Psychology of Women department together and had a bunch of people come speak at Yale. 

I actually wrote my dissertation in a month. I'd done my research, but I just kept putting off the writing-up part. I finally decided that I really wanted to graduate with a cap and gown, and if I was going to do that I would actually have to adhere to the due date. So I locked myself up in a room in the psychology department that had a computer and I just wrote and wrote and wrote until four in the morning and then I would go to sleep on the couch in that room because I knew that the cleaning lady would come at five, so that I would only be able to sleep for an hour and she would wake me up and I would keep writing and writing and writing. That was before the days when everyone had a computer-I actually wrote all my papers on a typewriter. 

I wanted to ask you about computers. I saw a Shift.com column where you wrote that you were programming BASIC with punch cards while today's computer whizzes were still playing with blocks. You've always been comfortable with that technology yourself. What do you think about the cyberspace revolution and its implications for women? 
I know that there's a myth out there that technology is for boys and girls are scared of it, but I think that that myth is really dying. When I talk to really little girls about computers they have no idea that they're supposed to be afraid of them. And I think that the basic skills that the Internet requires-typing, communicating-all this is stuff that women are supposedly better at than men. Really, according to stereotype, women should be the computer users. I think that, while older women might still have some trepidation about computers, the younger girls are going to even that out. 
Speaking of younger girls, how did you get started at Nickelodeon? 
I graduated from Yale and went to New York with a Ph.D and started working as a secretary, trying to figure out what I wanted to do. I had been studying the media, and when I graduated I wanted to actually start creating new media that would be good for women, rather than just teach people about the negative effects the media could have on them. But there wasn't any place to go. Sassy hadn't been born yet. So I figured I would start out at the ground floor of a new media company and get involved with it. I started at Nickelodeon in the typing pool and rose through the ranks. I ended up doing online work because I 
9