Publication date: November 2005
Volume: 38
Issue number: 3


**MASTHEAD:**
- Publisher: Matt Baron
- Editor-in-Chief: Romy Drucker
- Managing Editors: Concha Mendoza, Adriane Quinlan
- Designer: Sara Schneider
- Associate Publisher: Natasha Kim
- Photography Editor: Erica Deahl
- Senior Editors: Paige Austin, Sarah Laskow
- Production Manager: Mina Kimes
- Research Director: Helen Eckinger
- Associate Editor: David Zax
- Assistant Editor: Jonny Dach
- Web Designer: Nicholas Moryl
- Circulation and Subscription Manager: Anna Altman
- Staff: Emily Koh, Julia Wallace, Nicole Allan, Ivy Wang, Jane Rick, Emily Kopley, Gabriel Diaz, Veronica Nk,k Handler
- Members and Directors: Joshua Civin, Peter B. Cooper, Tom Griggs, Brooks Kelley, Daniel Km tz-Phelan, Jennifer Pitts, Henry Schwab, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, David Slifka, Fred Strebeigh, Thomas Strong, John Swansburg
- Advisors: Richard Bradley, Jay Carney, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Julia Preston, Laura Rabin, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Steve Ballou, Emily Bazeloo, Anson M BeanJ,Jt: BJaire Bennett, Edward B. Bennett, Richard Blow, Martha Brant, Jay Carney, Daphne Chu, Josh Civin, Jonathan M Oark, Constance Oement, Elisha Peter B. Andy Court, Masi Denison, Albert J Fox, Mrs. Howard Fox, David Freeman, Geoffrey Fried, Sherwin Goldman, David Greenberg, Tom Griggs, Stephen Hdlman, Jane Kamensky, Brooks Kdley, Roger Lewis E. Jim Lowt; E Nobles Lowt; Martha E Neil, Peter Neil, Howard H Newman, Sean O'Brien, Julie Pews, Lewis and Joan Platt, Josh Plaut, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, Fairfax C. Randal, Stuart Rohrer Arleen and Arthur Sager, Richard Shields, W Harr q>ton Sides, I jsa Silvt.11r•an, Adina and David St dsr• aan, Thomas Strong FJizJlxth Tan; Danid Yogin and Angda Stmt Ye1gin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- Shots in the Dark: Julie Brown Harwood
- Touch Me, Heal Me - Romy Drucker
- A Grave Offense - Ivy Wang
- How We Hate - Adriane Quinlan
- Yale Wants You! - Mina Kimes
- The Critical - Emily Kopley
- Endnote: Table Tents au jus - Jonny Dach


**Title: Touch Me, Heal Me**
**Author: Romy Drucker**
**Page number(s): 16**

Alternative Medicine takes up residenq in New Haven.


**Title: A Grave Offense**
**Author: Ivy Wang**
**Page number(s): 20**

Dissecting Yale s history of grave robbing.


**Title: How We Hate**
**Author: Adriane Quinlan**
**Page number(s): 24**

A visual history of a rivalry.


**Title: Yale Wants You!**
**Author: Mina Kimes**
**Page number(s): 36**

Students hit the street{ to redejine what a Yale class can look like.


**Title: Shots in the Dark**
**Author: Julie Brown Harwood**
**Page number(s): 4**


**Title: The Critical**
**Author: Emily Kopley**
**Page number(s): 42**


**Title: Endnote: Table Tents au jus**
**Author: Jonny Dach**
**Page number(s): 46**


**Fork Lift**
**Author: Nick Handler**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
Fork Lift 
IN THE COMMON ROOM OF A STILES 
freshman, proudly displayed between 
a poster of girls kissing and an empty 
bottle of rum, overlooking the X-Box 
and a dusty old rug, sit the crested 
plates from several of Yale's 12 resi-
dential colleges. The mythical beasts 
of Jonathan Edwards and Timothy 
Dwight, the quaint jleurs-de-lis of Ezra 
Stiles, the stoic battle axe of Morse-
all speak silently to a long tradition of 
Yale pride and theft. Hidden beneath 
jackets, stuffed into backpacks, and 
most often paraded out in plain view 
past the dining hall staff, myriad 
plates and cups make their 
way back to private pan-
theons every year. 

They can be found in 
every college and almost 
every entryway, hung tri-
umphantly above bunks 
and old futons. The tradi-
tion of plate stealing is 
not 
new: 
These 
makeshift shrines are 
as old as the residential 
colleges themselves. 
Flatware thievery dates 
back to the birth of the res-
idential college 
system. 
Originally, every dining hall 
had personalized 
silver 
flatware engraved with the 
college crest. However, 
even in the raccoon coat 
days of the 
1930s, the 
temptation 
to own the 
silver of 
one's 
own 
college 
proved too great for some Yale men. 
Servingware in the colleges dwindled to 
only a 
few dozen place-settings. 
Eventually, these survivors were 
retired to the Masters' Houses for 
safe-keeping and replaced with more 
affordable cutlery, while the aristo-
cratic plate settings were exchanged 
for cheaper ceramic ones. 
Several years ago, a Calhoun Master 
awoke to find a full set of stolen sil-
verware and eight to ten place settings 
at his door, along with an apology 
note from a penitent alum. 

According to Chuck Bennett, 
University Dining Service's Director 
of Support Services, Yale annual-
ly spends between $75,000 and 
$90,000 to replace stolen items. 
"We have no way of knowing 
how that china is lost," he says. 
This semester, Silliman 
College alone will order over one 
hundred new plates and 480 tum-
blers to replace those that have 
been stolen or broken. 'We know 
it happens," says John Morris, 
Director of Silliman's dining hall. 
"It's always a problem. Kids take 
them to their rooms and never 
return them." 
But, Yale's flatware fetish is 
not unique. According to Jami 
Snyder, Communications Director 
for Harvard University Dining 
Services, Annenberg, Harvard's 
freshman dining hall, loses 250 to 
three hundred dozen pieces of sil-
verware, 225 dozen tumblers, 
and around 150 dozen 
pieces of china annually, 
as well as entire pies, sev-
eral potted plants, and 
decorative pumpkins. In 
addition, House rivalries 
have sparked more large scale theft: In 
recent years, the Harvard dining halls 
have lost, among other things, a golden 
gong and a large ceramic elephant. 
Yale's current plates are manufac-
tured by Syracuse China Company, 
which, aside from a proud 150-year 
history of ceramic production, boasts 
substantial investments in such markets 
as oil and gas resources, heavy mining, 
iron and steel production, and com-
mercial lumber. A patriotic company, 
during World War II Syracuse even put 
its pottery expertise to use producing 
ceramic anti-tank mines for the US 
Army. Ironic that, while discussing 
drilling and economic imperi-
alism over Sustainable Food Project 
meals, Yalies are dining on (and collect-
ing) decorative little pieces of the mili-
tary-industrial complex. 

Futile attempts by dining hall man-
agers and college Masters to retrieve 
lost servingware include signs in the 
dining halls which read, "Please return 
stolen silverware" and an official poli-
cy of "blanket amnesty" for anyone 
returning missing goods. According to 
Morris, of the several hundred items 
lost or stolen from the Silliman dining 
hall each year, the custodial staff 
recovers only a few dozen. 

Why the tradition of plate theft 
at Yale has been and continues to be 
so strong is anyone's guess. Perhaps it 
derives from deep-seated college 
pride or the capricious greed of 
spoiled Ivy Leaguers; or maybe, as 
one Commons worker suggested, 
"The kids just need plates." 

Whatever the reason, the anony-
mous freshman and his suitemates are 
proud of their flatware collection. 
"The plates are cool. They're cool 
because they have, like, the shields on 
them," he says. "It's like when you go 
into someone's house and they have 
antique china on display. It looks cool. 
It makes the suite look nice. We have 
a competition with the suite below us 
to see who can get the most plates from all the 
dining halls first. We take the big ones, 
they take the small ones, and the suite 
across the hall steals mugs." 


**Secret Artists**
**Author: Veronica Madrigal**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

An Artspace gallery introduces unlikely artists to the public. 

YALE SCHOOL OF ART GRAD CHRIS 
Engstrom swims around his New 
Haven apartment, preparing to 
screen his short animated film, "Sea 
Net," for a dozen strangers. They 
mill around his home-studio with a 
combination of art-museum won-
der and open-house voyeurism, 
glancing from paintings into an 
adjoining kitchen (where a real, live 
artist breaks his daily bread), and 
surreptitiously back again. 

The film features line-drawings 
of a small boy struggling to gather 
all of the beach's 
shells and 
starfish 
into his "sea net," to take 
back to his studio (where else?) for 
inspiration. "That's a problem of 
mine," a bubbly Engstrom admits to 
his audience. "Having to select the 
most important thing. I want to 
push it all in there." 

As the trespassers tramp out of 
his apartment at Art Lofts West, an 
affordable housing complex for 
working 
artists 
in 
Westville, 
Engstrom's temptation becomes 
mine: There is too much to take 
away as we make for the next stop 
on the "Neighborhoods" studios 
tour. The tour is the second install-
ment of the annual City-Wide Open 
Studios event. Over three weeks, 
local Artspace showrooms will 
introduce New Haven's arts com-
munity and its public to each other. 
On this tour, in this town, it 
becomes increasingly clear that 
there are too many artists to do 
them all justice—what is the most 
important thing? 

On the tour there is a small elder-
ly woman dressed from head to toe in 
every shade of purple, with the 
exception of the giant sunflower 
pinned to the top of her floppy 
lavender hat. It becomes my bobbing 
yellow beacon as we wander among 
the numerous studios. 
"Where are we, and what is this 
place?" she asks me. Her name is 
Matty Dagradi. Together with a 
young, ponytailed high-school art 
teacher named Noah, we are remov-
ing our shoes in the foyer of some-
one's Sherman Avenue home; filing 
by a woman I recognize as a Yale 
professor, who refuses to go sock-
footed ("It's fine among friends, but 
in the house of a stranger!"); climb-
ing stairs past dynastic African 
sculptures to the incense-scented 
studio of a former Hillhouse High 
School football player who recently 
quit his job to become a "full-time 
artist." Noah corners him genially in 
the kitchen and proposes a meeting 
with his class—a group of recalci-
trant students he's "having a hard 
time getting to realize that people in 
their own neighborhoods" make art. 

Matty pokes covetously around 
each new studio. "I have half a 
garage to paint in," she laments—so 
she is an artist too! Oh, she takes a 
drawing 
class at 
Southern 
Connecticut State—that's free for 
seniors, but what really gets her 
going is talking about "the vitality 
of young artists" and how "it's a 
different generation now." After 
studying 
advertising 
design 
at 
Brooklyn's renowned Pratt Institute, 
Matty stayed home to raise her 
kids—all five of whom are now 
what could be called "full-time 
artists": a painter, a photographer, a 
jazz musician, an architect, a docu-
mentarian. Imbuing them all with 
that "most important thing," Matty 
Dagradi has sculpted an entire fam-
ily of artists. I wonder if she would 
adopt me. But am I an artist? 

Noah, who takes welding class-
es at the local Creative Arts 
Workshop and will display one of 
his works at Open Studios' closing 
exhibition, Alternative Space, the 
following weekend, is an artist. He 
moved here two months ago from 
Minneapolis, which he says has an 
impressive art scene "for being 
where it is in the Midwest." It 
buzzes with just the right mix of 
large galleries and small community 
venues. Similarly, he says, New 
Haven "has more opportunities 
than you would expect to find for a 
city of its size." 

According to Artspace's communi-
cations director Leslie Kuo, New 
Haven has the "concentration of 
artists" necessary to support an event 
like Open Studios. This year, some 
500 creative minds participated in 
"one of the premier" events of its 
kind across the country. Kuo cites the 
public exposure that Open Studios 
has offered for the past eight years as 
the key to its success. "It's a self-fulfill-
ing prophecy," she says, fierce with 
pride. "Artists leave New York to 
come here." By luring new artists, 
Open Studios feeds itself. 

And then there's Matty, at once 
audience and artist. Kuo explains 
that Open Studios helps people like 
her—"secret artists"—to "step over 
that line." "We've gotten artists 
[both] by importing them and by 
making them." 

One of the last stops our dank 
Yale-borrowed bus makes is the 
Loretta Staples studio. A former 
graphic design professor whom 
Kuo named as part of New York's 
art exodus, Staples stands before a 
set of 
scrolls 
decorated with 
abstract ink designs and tells us, 
"Everybody has their own way. You 
just need to find the way that's your 
way. You can give yourself permis-
sion to take yourself seriously and 
be an artist." 

Before we part, Matty and I prom-
ise to look for each other at 
Alternative Space the next weekend. 
She tells me I "have a nice, low-key 
way of doing things," and also to 
wash my hands when I get home. 

The following Saturday, I wander 
the massive old Olin Brass building on 
Shelton Avenue—filled for a weekend 
with five stories-worth of art, artists, 
and audience. I don't find Matty. I do 
find three shadowy photographs by 
her daughter, Terry Dagradi, and 
Noah's piece—a chunk of metal from 
an oil drum, carved into a jagged sun-
burst. The short caption reads: "I get 
pulled 
moving constantly out, but 
return to the center for more and 
more and more and more and more 
and more." 


**Dixwell's Gospel**
**Author:  (Not specified)**
**Page number(s): 6**

The oldest black church in New Haven still stands proudly on Dixwell Avenue

TODAY, THE STRETCH OF DIXWELL AVENUE 
that 
runs 
from 
Payne 
Whitney 
Gymnasium to the Hamden border is 
lined with bus stops, quickie food joints, 
sagging houses and dozens of churches: 
grand brick ones, storefronts, stand-
alones. 

The 
Dixwell 
Avenue 
Congregational United Church of 
Christ doesn't look like any of them! 
With angular eaves jutting out in every 
direction and an empty moat circling its 
base, Dixwell Church looks more like a 
cement star. Founded in 1820, this 
strange castle is the oldest black church 
in New Haven, and the oldest black 
Congregationalist church in the country. 
For years, it was a stop on the 
Underground Railroad; in the Civil 
Rights era it supported demonstrators 
rallying on behalf of the Black Panthers. 

Sunday mornings tell a different 
tale. Most congregants arrive by car, 
driving in from Hamden or other out-
lying neighborhoods. They are an 
illustrious group. Carlton Highsmith, 
the US Department of Commerce 
minority businessperson of 2005, is a 
Dixwell Church member. John Daniels, 
first black mayor of New Haven, is in 
the men's choir. Natalie Hardy, who 
joined the church in 1928, was the first 
black girl in the country to be awarded 
the highest honor by the Girl Scouts. 
She lived on Dixwell, a few blocks 
down from the church, for over sixty 
years; now, she drives in from her 
Hamden home every Sunday morning. 

Dixwell Church, home to New 
Haven's black leaders for over a centu-



**Dixwell Church: A New Era**
**Author: Paige Austin**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
ry, is now a congregation of com-
muters. The membership's slow 
exodus from the Dixwell neighbor-
hood, spanning half a century, mirrors 
middle-class migration out of inner 
cities across America. But at Dixwell 
Church, the pattern may soon be 
interrupted. Reverend John Henry Scott 
III is charting a new course for the 
church's future. Now in his tenth year 
as Dixwell's pastor, Reverend Scott has 
drawn over a dozen newcomers to the 
church this year alone. For an aging 
congregation of about two hundred, 
that is a sizable increase. In large part, 
Reverend Scott attracts members 
through his bimonthly talks on 
financial management and occasional 
seminars on topics like how to start a 
small business. Reverend Scott, also a 
professor of business at Gateway 
Community College, is adapting Dixwell 
Church to a new era and a new Dixwell 
community. But the proud steward of 
his church's long history claims his 
mission is really nothing new at all. 

When Simeon Jocelyn, a white 21-year-
old from a prominent local family, 
helped 24 former slaves found the 
Dixwell Church in 1820, their quest for 
autonomy and racial equality in New 
Haven was nothing short of 
revolutionary. A retrospective from the 
church's centennial recalls that its first 
home, a small frame church on Temple 
Street, "was stoned repeatedly during 
services." Founder Jocelyn was 
threatened so often he needed 
bodyguards and eventually fled New 
Haven altogether. 

At Jocelyn's departure, the church was 
exclusively black. Throughout the 1800s, 
some of the most vocal abolitionists and 
suffragists in the black community were 
drawn from its ranks. Before local 
public schools were desegregated, the 
founders of New Haven's first school for 
black children also came from Dixwell 
Church. 

By 1900, New Haven had several other 
black churches. But Dixwell Church, 
relocated to 100 Dixwell Avenue after a 
group of Russian Jews bought its Temple 
Street building in 1887, had already 
established a reputation as the religious 
home for the city's black elite. 

In 1924, the church donated land for 
the founding of the Dixwell Community 
House—known later as the Q House—a 
staple of the Dixwell community into 
the twenty-first century. Natalie Hardy, a 
77-year veteran of Sundays at the 
Dixwell Church, remembers those days 
as a different era along Dixwell. Many 
of the city's black professionals lived 
near her house at 62 Dixwell: Her own 
father was a lawyer, and their neighbors 
were doctors and dentists. With only a 
handful of black churches in the city, 
Dixwell faced little competition for 
congregants. By the 1960s, it had 400 
members. 

The community's transformation began 
in the early 1940s, when a low-income 
housing project was built in the area. The 
campaign was intended to be one of 
urban renewal, but Dixwell would never 
be the same. "People moved out, some 
of whom expected to move back, but in 
some cases that didn't happen," Hardy 
recalled. Her family stayed in Dixwell, 
but its church was increasingly 
comprised of commuters from Hamden, 
Bethany and other neighboring towns. In 
the 1960s, the church co-sponsored the 
construction of a low-income housing 
unit of its own, Florence Virtue Homes 
Inc., which drew the neighborhood's 
first white residents. Of those who moved 
in, some remain church members. But 
low-income housing had a dual effect on 
the church. By 1967, only a quarter of 
its congregants lived within walking 
distance. In 1969, when the church 
moved to its present home at 214 
Dixwell, its collaboration with the Q 
House tapered off, severing one of its 
strongest neighborhood ties. 

But the reverend is eager for his church 
to shed its out-of-towners image. In the 
last year, he has mailed out hundreds of 
postcards inviting church neighbors to 
its services, and he has overseen the 
installment of a new roof; new speakers, 
bathrooms, and carpets; and a fresh 
coat of paint in the church sanctuary, all 
in the hopes of welcoming new 
parishioners. He doesn't want the church 
to lose its homey feel but he also 
doesn't want it to cede its history of 
activism to the comforts of middle-class 
suburbia. 

On a recent Sunday, the reverend, 
ebullient and fresh-faced, knew all his 
congregants by name. He knew who had 
surgery last week, and who recently 
lost a son. When the service began, his 
greetings rang out from the pulpit along 
with the sermon. To a lady in the back: 
"I know you've been under the weather. 
Good to see you!" To a family in the 
front: "You haven't been here in a few 
weeks. Glad to have you back!" 

But the bulk of the sermon was reserved 
for talk of the world outside the cement 
star. "Here at Dixwell Church, we have a 
special responsibility—the same 
responsibility that Simeon Jocelyn and 24 
former slaves felt all those years ago," he 
told the congregation. "Middle-class 
folks like us," he added, "have no less of 
an imperative to fight for social justice—
for racial equality, improved housing, 
better education and better health care; 
for the haves as well as the have-nots. 
"That's your mission as a Dixwellite!" he 
bellowed. 

From the front row, Hardy nodded in 
approval. Her granddaughter recently 
joined the church, one in a spate of new 
members. Hardy now drives past over 16 
churches on her way down Dixwell 
Avenue each Sunday. But she has never 
thought of leaving: "That's my church. I've 
never considered any other church being 
my church than Dixwell," she explained 
defensively. "The city changed a lot, but 
we kept going."
-Paige Austin


**Trashy Magazines**
**Author: Sarah Larkow**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY, THE FIFTY 
copies of The New York Times delivered 
to the Davenport College dining hall will 
disappear within three hours. The Yale 
Daily News might last from breakfast 
until dinner. Piles of The Yale Herald 
distributed on Friday at five vanish by 
Monday at two. Yet when issues of the 
popular campus tabloid Rumpus recently 
went missing from four colleges, the 
story made headlines. 

This year, Yale undergraduates will 
write, edit and publish over 35 
magazines. They range from The Yale 
Record, the University's long-running 
humor magazine, to Style, Yale's first 
and only fashion mag. Interested in 
Human Rights? Fishing? Classical 
Studies of Ancient Mesopotamia? Check 
the laden tables outside of any dining 
hall: somewhere in the piles of printed 
matter, the perfect magazine awaits. 
Unlike the YDN or The Herald, most of 
these publications will linger for a few 
weeks, trying to entice readers, before 
ending up where the missing piles of 
Rumpus were found—in the trash. 

Off-campus, "real" magazines need 
subscriptions and advertisers to justify 
their publication. Many student 
publications have neither and thus depend 
on sponsorship from Yale or outside 
interest groups. In an informal survey 
conducted by The New Journal, twenty 
campus publications reported their 
publishing costs, which range from $500 
to $7,000 per term, not including the 
YDN or The Herald. Combined expenses 
of these publications, per term, total 
$63,700. In comparison, the 
Undergraduate Organizations Funding 
Committee, which scrambles to fund a 
variety of student groups, has a budget 
of $90,000. 

For some niche interests, Yale prints 
more than one magazine. The cadre of 
campus conservatives somehow need 
both Light and Truth and The Free Press; 
gunslinger's indie rock reviews work 
hard to be hipper than The Herald's Arts 
& Entertainment section; and a series of 
college-specific lit mags give a voice to 
those writers who refuse the Yale 
Literary Magazine. 
THE NEW JOURNAL


In this world of literary magazines, the 
Ut, Yale's oldest magazine (over 160 
years old), easily dominates, often 
selecting as few as four poems from over 
one hundred submissions. Publisher 
Jonathan Sherman-Presser recognizes 
that the smaller alternatives serve as 
welcome venues in which more writers 
can publish their work. He adds, "The 
kind of publications that irk me are 
those that needlessly overlap on others' 
territory." As part of the founding team 
of P.H.: The Yale Journal of Public 
Health, he remembers a magazine with a 
similar health policy focus appearing 
just when P.H. was starting out. "In a 
field with as limited a draw for writers 
and editors as public health, there's 
neither a need nor the population to 
support two magazines," he says. 
Working together, the two sets of 
magazine founders could have better 
served the public health community. 

Such needless competition may 
contribute to the short lifespan of many 
publications. For every magazine that 
lasts for decades, like the Ut or The 
Record, there are countless magazines 
such as Wake, Jake, or Electric Fence 
which last only a few issues before 
disappearing. 

From his base at Manuscripts and 
Archives, Bill Massa, Head of 
Collection Development, fights to catch 
hold of each student publication no 
matter how fleeting its existence. Here, in 
the research room, squeaky glass cases 
surround scholars with memories of 
Yale: Yale books, Yale newsletters, Yale 
photo albums, and Yale student 
publications. The YDN is on microfiche 
here, all the way back to 1878. In this 
piecemeal history of Life at Yale, The 
Journal of Ethics, a well-heeled 
pomposity, ages alphabetically with The 
Eavesdropper, a sheaf of student 
gossip. All official Yale publications must 
donate two copies of each issue; but 
most of the publications actually find 
their way here from the Woolsey rotunda, 
the gym, or the Trumbull dining hall, 
where Massa, a fellow of the college, 
makes an effort to collect them. "It's a 
losing battle," he says. "Sometimes I 
feel like a publications bag lady." 

Manuscripts and Archives, the last line 
of defense against disappearing copy, 
aspires to be a bastion of young Yale 
genius, a safekeeping for the fledgling 
scribbles of great men and women. 
Although the library has the most 
complete run of any magazine, issues or 
even whole volumes are often missing 
from the record. Each year, a few Yalies 
come in search of literary glories past, 
often to find their words permanently 
lost. They, like today's Yalies, lacked 
foresight. Massa does his best to head off 
current students' future nos for their 
undergraduate prose before their words, 
like Rumpus, are thrown away. 

The culprit in the mystery of Rumpus' 
trashing remains at large, as does the 
perpetrator of a similar affront last year 
to The Free Press. But Stan Alcorn, a 
magazine editor himself (of the liberal 
Hippofytic), believes he saw the thief at 
work. 

The crime occurred in Jonathan 
Edwards college, in the course of a 
normal delivery of his magazine. After 
leaving one pile of magazines in the mail 
room, Alcorn moved onto the common 
room. When he returned a minute 
later, he saw a deliveryman from Turley, 
the Boston company that prints many of 
Yale's publications, leaving. His stack of 
Hippofytics was gone; in its place was 
The Herald. He hunted about for his 
magazines. There they were, in the 
trash, along with The Yale College 
Review of Books and P.H.—before 
anyone, including Massa, had a chance 
to pick one up.
-Sarah Larkow


**Siren Song**
**Author:  (Not specified)**
**Page number(s): 9**

YOU'VE BEEN THERE. WAITING AT THE 
interminable light on Broadway and 
York, chatting on your cell phone with a 
friend who's sitting somewhere secluded 
and quiet—and then it begins. 

Distant, buzzing strains at first, then a 
mounting screech leading to a series of 
wails and a shrieking vehicle hurtling 
through your long-awaited walk light. 
Once the throbbing in your ears seems to 
have ended, you shatter the newly 
settled quiet with a shout: "WHAT WERE 
YOU SAYING?" Embarrassed by your 
lack of volume control, you glance 
around and proffer a quick explanation: 
"Sorry ... it's New Haven!" 

As a Los Angeles native, rumors 
alleging New Haven was a hotbed of 
crime never fazed me. What I was not 
prepared for, however, was the never-
ending symphony of sirens. When I first 
arrived, walking to class was an 
overwhelming experience. Already 
frazzled by the crush of bodies, I seemed 
to be the only one who noticed the 
flashing and screeching ambulances and 
fire engines barreling through 
crosswalks. I was shocked to discover 
that when a siren sounds, not only do 
drivers feel no pressure to pull over (or 
even to delay a left-hand turn), but 
pedestrians are also impervious to the 
signs of a vital emergency. No need to 
let a blaring fire truck impede your dash 
across Elm Street to grab lunch as a 
Berkeley transfer. 

"Yeah, nobody here even notices the 
sirens anymore," says Sergeant Burgh, a 
sturdy man casually perusing The 
National Enquirer behind the main desk 
at the police station. "It'd be good to 
ticket them, but when you're in your 
squad car with the siren going"—his eyes 
drift from the tabloid as he describes 
the experience—"getting closer and 
closer to the crime scene, you just get so 
... so jacked-up, you know? And it's not 
like you're really gonna stop for a minute 
to ticket some jerk who didn't pull over. 
It's like a, you know, a..." 

"Catch 22?" I suggest. 

"Yeah, one of those," he says, returning 
to his magazine. "People say there are a 
lot more sirens here than in other 
places," he remarks, flipping to a story 
about Britney Spears. "I would say


**The Yale Siren Song**
**Author: Nicole Allan**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
only two per cent of those are us, 
though. The rest are the medical people 
or the fire department, mostly. The fire 
guys are required to set the sirens going 
for every barbecue-fire call they get."


"It's the way Yale is set up, why there 
are so many sirens around there," 
Sergeant Burgh continues. Fumbling 
around for a piece of scratch paper, he 
explains that Yale's campus is the most 
siren-ridden place in New Haven. He 
sketches a quick diagram of the streets 
around campus, pointing out the fire sta-
tion and hospitals that make . it a siren 
epicenter. The main fire headquarters sits 
at the end of Elm Street, only four 
blocks east of campus. Yale-New Haven 
Hospital hems the . school in just south 
on York Street, and The Hospital of 
Saint Raphael is located seven blocks 
west of campus on Chapel Street. 
Nestled between these three facilities, 
Yale's campus is an emergency vehicle 
crossroads, with fire trucks racing 
through to the city's west and amb~­
lances pummeling northward on York 
Street. Sergeant Burgh also has an imagi-
native theory as to the way the sirens 
echo off the Gothic architecture 
creat-
ing,.as he explains, a tunnel of sound. 
The theory's scientific basis seems shaky, 
but I can attest to walking through that 
tunnel several times each day. 


A chat with the Fire Marshall shed 
statistical light on my observations. An 
average of 92 911 calls are received in 
the call .center in the basement of the 
New Haven Courtho-qse each day. 
Usually, only about ten of these calls 
involve ·actual flames; these are passed 
along to the fire department, while the 
other 82 are answered by ambulances. 
That's. 92 sirens·each day indiscriminately 
passing through the "tunnel of sound." 


Siu ing outside Au Bon Pain recently, 
I was talking to my' dad on the phone, 
when suddenly he asked me to repeat 
myself he hadn't heard "because of the 
damn siren." Siren? I thought. I hadn't 
noticed; I'd just shouted over it. After all, 
it was merely one of 92 that would greet 
my ever-adjusting ears that day. 
-Nicole Allan


**A Striking Difference**
**Author: Will Palmer**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

WARD 1 ALDERMAN NICK SHALEK'S 
anti-union stance would probably have 
made him totally unelectable thirty years 
ago. Picture the political climate of the 
time at its peak on May 1, 1970: Over 
15,000 people converged on the New 
Haven Green, the "largest assoru nent of 
long-haired youths, film crews, and 
National Guardsmen that New Haven 
has ever seen" reported the Yale Daify 
News the following day. Protesting the 
murder trial of three Black Panthers, they 
listened to speakers, snake-danced to 
chants of "Free Bobby Seale," the name 
of one of the Panthers on trial, and 
eventually clashed with police in a violent 
eruption of rocks and tear gas.


Looking back, between the culturally 
defiant youths, the radical speakers, and 
the seeming intractability of police-pro-
tester relations, this scene seems like a 
caricature of the era. It epitomizes a 
polarized America, a cliched conflict of 
aggressive authority using old tactics to 
respond to rebellious liberalism.


And yet, Yale University handled the 
May Day protests of 1970, and the stu-
dent strikes leading up to it, with a sur-
prisingly liberal approach. President 
Kingman Brewster decided to end the 
school year prematurely in response to 
the strike, and managed the throngs of 
protesters by opening residential college 
gates, housing them in courtyards, and 
feeding them in dining halls. -It was a 
"policy of shutting down to 3pen up," 
remembers 
Sarah 
Shapiro 
'72_


Recognizing that the protests could f!Ot 
be contained, Brewster postponed aca-
demic deadlines and expanded the 
option to take classes pass/ fail. William 
Farley '72 LAW '77, then-chairman of 
the Strike Steering Committee explained, 
"As long as people went along with their 
daily lives, things would not be confront-
ed and faced. The only way to get things 
confronted and faced was to stop normal 
activity and to concentrate on what was 
going on around us."


Today, the political atmosphere has 
changed radically. On August 27, 2003, 
Yale employees' Local Unions 34 and 35 
went on strike for better pensions. The 
surrounding turmoil was undeniably 
smaller in magnitude than that of the 
Bobby Seale triaL The strike was a dis-
agreement over the terms of a contract, 
and there was certainly less consensus on 
the issues. Yet, if the conflict between 
Yale and its labor unions was compara-
tively small, and the issues less signifi-
cant, the Yale community's effort to stifle 
the conflict stands out. Personal prefer-
ence replaced political ideology: Every 
part of the Yale community endeavored 
to take politics out of the equation.


This political apathy extended to even 
the highest levels of the administration. 
Amidst the May Day protests of the 
1970s, President Brewster had famously 
articulated the political nature of the 
trial, declaring, "I am skeptical of the 
ability of black revolutionaries to achieve 
a fair trial anywhere in the United States. 
In large part, the attnosphere has been 
created by police actions and prosecu-
tions against the Panthers." In 2003, 
President Levin did the opposite: When 
protesters were arrested for allegedly 
refusing police orders and blocking traf-
fic on separate occasions during union 
demonstrations, President Levin said it 
was a matter for the court and prosecu-
tors to work out.


During the 2003 demonstrations, Yale 
refused to let political protests disrupt 
normal school functions 
even if that 
meant marching riot police into its 
investment ·offices or harassing students 
wearing signs of political .protest.


The Yale adminisfration was not alone 
in its desirf 't<? -: co~tain the politically 
volatile nature ~ gf:;:'the strikes. Student 
reactions coUld· ·h.ar'ffiy be characterized 
as radically political, or · even political. 
Pundits-in-training rushed to the opinion 
pages of the Yale Daijy News to express 
their "respect" for the unions while avoid-
ing discussion of the issues. Others insist-
ed that the sttikes distracted students from 
their "purpose" on campus. When two 
politically-opposed 
professors 
co-
authored an opinion piece, they Withheld 
their differing views on the issues. and 
instead offered a purportedly objective 
solution to the political conflict: simply let 
a "neutral" third party evaluate the case 
and rule 
not on who is right on the 
issues, but who is more "reasonable"


By the end of the conflict, good com-
munity sentiments were the new political 
fad. The Yale College Council held 
events for Yale workers and students to 
mingle in ccsocial settings." YCC repre-
sentative Daniel Weeks '06 told reporters 
in 2003 that the council's aim was not to 
endorse the strikes or the union, but sim-
ply to ''build a stronger comtnunity in 
non-political ways."


The YCC also 
offered to distribute one hundred JEOP-
ARDY! tickets to union employees. As 
President Levin put it, ''I think it's a very 
nice gesture to help rebuild a good feel-
ing in our community."


Politics were quickly forgotten in the 
mad rush to kiss and make up. Perhaps it 
was because Yale's labor troubles were 
more complex, less polarized, and 
aroused less student interest than Bobby 
Seale's murder trial. Perhaps enough 
progress has been accomplished to ren-
der radical change to Yale's political 
atmosphere unappealing. Yet, as the 
recent Ward 1 election shows, conflicts 
about unionism still lurk beneath the sur-
face of student politics.


In previous elections, challengers to 
the Democratic nominee were repeated-
ly defeated because those who cared 
enough to vote resoundingly favored 
the more liberal candidate .. Perhaps 
Nick 
Shalek 
defeated 
Rebecca 
Livengood because the people who 
voted were more ambivalent about 
unions. In 1970, ambivalence would not 
have carried the day. 
~Will Palmer


**Something Blue**
**Author: Ben Orlin**
**Page number(s): 11-12**

''EVERYONE DREAMS OF BEING 
IN A 
place like Battell," says Bill Grenawitzke, 
sipping from a bottle of seltzer after 
offering it to his fiancee, Ashley Green. 
"Especially Ashley," he adds, prompting a 
sharp look from her. ''What?" he says 
sheepishly. ''You've been really gung-ho 
about it." Given the importance of 
Battell 
both to this couple and to Yale 
as a whole 
no one could blame her.


Battell is a house of God amidst fresh-
man housing: It sits on the corner of Old 
Campus, between Durfee's Convenience 
Store, home of the $6 bag of Fritos, and 
Farnam Hall, home of the only washing 
machines ever available on Old Campus .


The chapel dates back to 187 4 and, even 
on a campus overrun with historic archi-
tecture, it stands out as especially gor-
geous. ''To be a part of that history is 
quite an honor," says Bill.


As Gale Iannone, Facilities Director for 
the Office of the Chaplain, says, ''Battell 
has a very intimate feel about it. The 
events unfold right around you." Though 
its high ceiling, booming organ, and 
imposing history channel that which is 
most intimidating and spectacular about 
Yale, Battell remains a personal site. Its 
pews have seated myriad patrons 
from 
some of . America's greatest thinkers to 
guests at bar mitzvahs. It is a site of wor-
ship adjacent to sites of late-night cram-
ming and a capella rehersals. It is a place 
where personal histories somehow live 
peaceably alongside history.


Last year, Battell hosted 1,391- events, 
about thirty of which were wedclit.i.gs. The 
Chaplain's Office first officially recorded 
marriages in Battell in 1960, but there 
were most likely many marriages before 
then, according to Iannone. Today, to 
walk down Bartell's aisle, couples must 
register a year in advance. However, the 
process is nothing like the rigid standards 
enforced by the Stanford University 
chapel, which requires couples to fill out 
compatibility tests. Despite Battell's Yale 
heritage, only one in three of the couples 
who marry there have any previous con-
nection with the University.


David Williams and Priya Raman, an 
undergraduate couple engaged to be mar-
ried, can explain why, for them, Battell is 
out of the question. First, it's a matter of 
practicality 
David hails from California, 
and Priya is from Arizona, putting 
Connecticut far off the map of conven-
ient locations. But equally important is the 
fact that Battell is a little too Yale. ''I asso-
ciate Yale with college," Priya says, "which 
is a distinct period I love Yale, but when I 
graduate, that'll be it."


David and Priya began dating in 
September 2004, the fall of their freshman 
year. Before long, they started talking 
about life after Yale and the possibility of 
sharing it together. In.January 2005 they 
decided to get married. ''Either people are 
really happy for you;' says Priya, "or they 
don't know how to deal with it." Some of 
David's friends, he says, still don't know he 
is engaged to be married. Their plans for 
the future are far from definite; at the age 
of 19, there's no rush. David is still chaos-
ing a major. They don't know where they 
will be living and working after grad11ation, 
or where and when they'll get married. Yet 
they have already considered what a Battell 
wedding could mean and, even at this 
point, they know it is not for them.


For Bill, a PhD student in geology, and 
Ashley, who received her Master's degree 
from Yale in Computer Science, the case 
for Battell is compelling. They met as grad 
students in September 2003 on the walk 
over. to Convocation at Battell Chapel. 
They became friends and started dating a 
few months later. Next July, they will walk 
out of the place in which they met as hus-
band and wife. Bill appreciates what Battell 
means to his relationship: "We met here:-
that means a lot to us. It's the one thing 
that brought us· together."


For Bill, a Texas native, and Ashley, of 
Ann Arbor, Michigan, New Haven is a 
neutral site for their families to travel to. 
But Battell is more than that, says Ashley: 
''It's our common ground." Their wed-
ding, the ultimate gesture of togetherness, 
will be held at the place that brought them 
together to begin with.


Bill and Ashley hope their wedding day 
will recreate that experience for others:-
but with an end-of-ceremony surprise. 
''You can enter from the outside of Yale," 
Ashley says, ''but empty out into the court-
yard. That's our plan, to have people dump 
out into the courtyard after the ceremony, 
to have champagne and get tanked." 
----,·Ben Or/in


**Diversity of Life**
**Author:  (No Author Listed)**
**Page number(s): 12**

SI'EPHEN l<Eu.ERT HAS A VERY COMPUCA1'ED-
sounding job. He is a Professor of Social 
· Ecology at the School of Forestry and 
Environmental Studies and a member of 
the Executive Committee of the Yale 
Interdisciplinary Center for Bioethics. 
He works in what is c"aned "environmen-
tal ethics" and recently he has spent 
much of his time thinking about "bio-
philia," an idea he helped develop, which 
hypothesizes that the love of nature is 
an evolutionary development. This love 
might even be selfish: A cure for cancer, 
Kellert points out, is more likely to be 
found in a world with many plant and 
animal species. "There are values to be 
derived," he says, "from a healthy and 
diverse natural environment."


This last statement could be the 
mottq of the Center that helps sup-
port his work. Housed in a small build-
ing, tucked away on Prospect Street 
behind the Institution for Social and 
Policies Studies, of which it forms a 
wing, the Center is a healthy environ-
ment for the diverse array of scholars 
who pass through.


As the name proclaims, it is very 
much an interdisciplinary center. "It's 
hard to think of a field that's more 
interdisciplinary," 
says 
Professor 
Margaret Farley, one of the Center's . 
two directors. The Bioethics Course . 
List, a diverse ftle of all Yale courses 
relating to bioethics, is fifty pages long, · 
drawing from most undergraduate 
departments and many professional 
schools. Paging through Bioethics · at 
Yale, . the Center's annual publication 
(some 270 pages this year), it is easy to 
forget which discipline you are reading 
about. Professor Willard Miranker of 
the Computer Science department 
worries about the "grave ethical chal-
lenges" humans 
will 
face when 
machines 
"become 
sentient." 


Professor Robert A. Burt of the Law 
School. is concerned with "the . experi-
ence and culture of dying in America." 
Rajesh Rao, a medical student, has co-
founded the Yale Stem Cell Interest 
Group "to discuss the biological, ther-
apeutic, ethical, social, and religious 
implications of stem cells."


In no other book could one turn 
the page from a proftle of Ian Shapiro, 
Professor of Political Science ("In the 
area of bioethics, I have written about 
abortion policy, euthanasia, and the 
distribution of health care ... "), to a 
proftle of John Ohno, High School 
Junior ("I'm interested in computers, 
prograrnming, robotics, and anime .. :I 
atn also a member of the 'Technology 
and Ethics' working group").


All these people-and hundreds 
more 
are united by a word that didn't 
even 
exist a 
few 
decades 
ago. 
According to the Oxford English 
Dictionary, the birth of the term 
"bioethics" occurred in 1971. That 
year was a time of "large scale ques-
tioning about the nature of moral 
authority in our society," says Susan 
Lederer, a science historian affiliated 
with the Center. "There was distrust 
that physicians could be left to make 
responsible decisions on everything 
from test-tube babies to the definiton 
of death."


It wasn't until the mid-80s that any-
one at Yale even attempted to organize 
and bring together people working in 
bioethics. It was then that Dr. Edmund 
Pellegrino 
first 
convened 
the 
"Humanities in Medicine" group. 
Professors from all departments and 
professional schools came to speak 
about their work. "We spent a year and 
a half just educating each other on 
what we had been doing," says Dr. 
Robert Levine, now a director of the 
Center. ''And just when we were fin-
ished, Ed Pellegrino went to become 
the president of Catholic University."


The group dissolved, and for the next 
decade, professors at Yale pursued 
bioethics individually, without any 
coordination of their efforts. When 
Donald Green, director of ISJ>S, sug-
gested creating a Bioethics ~roject at 
Yale, Dr. Levine told him not to both-
er . it wouldn't work. "Fortunately fie 
didn't listen to me 
and it worked.'-'-


The "Project" was only this past 
year promoted to a "Center" 
and 
"The University does not convey 
'Center' status lightly," reads the fore-
word to Bioethics at Yale. The Center 
has shown results: Its 14 research 
groups produce papers and sometitnes 
books, and its conferences can draw 
audiences of two hundred. Dr. Levine 
estimates that about a fifth of all 
Divinity 
Students 
Medical 
Students pass through its doors. The 
undergraduate bioethics course taught 
two years ago attracted a record-break-
ing 500 students. "It worked" indeed-
the small house on Prospect is now a 
hub linking activities at the remotest 
corners of Yale's campus.


And . in another corner, at the 
Forestry School atop Science Hill, 
Professor Stephen Kellett is planning 
a major symposium on biophilia.-
specifically, on the principle of "bio-
philic design." The idea, he explains, is 
that '<human physical and mental well-
being can be enhanced by a.built envi-
ronment that lets you experience 
nature." Some of our most honored 
feats of human construction, he feels, 



**Title: A Bioethical Symposium**
**Author: David Zax**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
operate on just such a principle 
con-
sider cathedrals, constructed to let in 
as much natural light as possible. The 
keynote speakers at the symposium 
will be Vincent Scully, the architectur-
al historian, and E. 0. Wilson~ the 
entomologist. This should not surprise 
you. 

Naturally, 
the 
Center 
for 
Bioethics would bring together a devo-
tee of Saint Denis Abbey and a man 
obsessed with ants. 
-David Zax


**Title: For the Birds**
**Author: Emily Koh**

I WAS ILL-PREPARED FOR MY FIRST BIRD-
walk. After staying up till three the night 
before, I arrived at East Rock Park five 
hours later armed only with coffee and 
• 
a warm coat. The Birdwalk was one 
' 
choice iil a: series of nature tours organ-
ized by the New Havev Park Rangers 
Program, alrn9s~ --all~ ~of which 
Mill 
River Natq_re 'W~ 
-Giant Steps Hike, 
;. 
... I 
# 
Hawkwatch-at Lighthouse Point Park 
·:. ~,, :;r.,. 
,.. 
and Introduction t o Hawks & Hawk 
Watching 
involved either birding, 
walking, or, in some cases, both. 

I expected, given the early hour, that I 
would find myself mosdy in the company 
of children. The Birdwalk seemed the per-
fect fieldtrip for Madeleine's girls · school 
class or a nanny with young ones in tow. 
But as I approached the Trowbridge 
Environmental Center, the only other 
walkers in sight were a young guy around 
my age 
with dreadlocks and skater pants, 
who seemed no more comfortable in the 
forest than I 
and an older, seemingly 
more bird-conscious man, who was 
equipped with binoculars, a huntstnan cap 
and sturdy hiking boots you could wear to 
kill a bear. 

The three of us <;onverged in front 
of the Trowbridge Center's front door 
and ventured inside together. There, we 
toured the Center's main room, which 
houses small exhibitions about wildlife 
with names ranging from the banal 
"Migratory Raptors" to the exclarnatory 
"Trees are Terrific." 

Tom Parlapiano, an employee of the 
Trowbridge Environmental Center, pro-
vided an un-outfitted companion and 
me with binoculars and led our gang 
November 2005 
of three outdoors. 

Parlapiano, a veteran 
birdwatcher, said the 
only trick of the 
trade is observation. 
Silhouette, flight 
patterns, habitat: 
each of these ele-
ments 
must 
be 
examined to deter-
mine a species. As 
we began our walk 
in the woods he 
appeared to dispense 
this wisdom to dis-
tract us from the fact 
that there were no 
actual birds in sight. 

It seemed that the 
two hour trip would 
be spent 
mulling 
over pictures and making small talk 
rather than actually spotting a spectacu-
lar bird in flight. 

Early on in the journey, we heard a 
upeep" from some nearby plants. Would 
this be the first bird of the day? As the 
older walker, Gil, wisely remarked, "It's 
one thing to hear 'em, it's another thing 
to see them." The group stopped and 
waited in hope of a sighting. In the 
meantime, Parlapiano provided a draw-
ing of the loud-mouthed creature: a 
White-Breasted Sparrow. After a few 
tninutes, when it became clear that the 
bird would not make an appearance, we 
trudged on. 

Parlapiano explained that the cold 
morning temperature and clouded light 
prevented many birds from leaving their 
resting habitat unlike me, the wise 
birds had chosen to stay in bed. 

Nonetheless, he said uyou shouldn't let 
the non-ideal day prevent you from 
birding." 

A bit farther along, we 
stopped again to ex~e movement in 
a bush. Looking through my binoculars 
for the first time, I realized how difficult 
it is to capture a still bird. "One thing 
you know about birds," said Parlapiano, 
uthey know exacdy when you pick your 
binoculars up." He laughed. 

Birding requires precision and 
patience. You can spend hours search-
ing for a specific bird and then, once 
you've spotted it, maintain that sighting 
for only a few seconds. Parlapiano 
emphasized how, through practice, birds 
become recognizable not only by their 
physical appearance, but also by their 
song. Since birdwatchers' eyes often fail 
them, they rely more on other senses, 
such as hearing, to distinguish one 
species from another. Later that morn-
ing, acute hearing led our group to 
uncover a female Downy Woodpecker 
circling the top of a tree trunk 
coolest bird I have ever seen. 

About halfway through the walk, we 
left the more dense vegetation and hit a 
wall of open space. This narrow clearing 
was devoid of the massive trees and clut-
tered foliage we had seen along other 
parts of the trail; it seemed an ideal place 
to rest. Desperate to ·see another bird, I 
focused my eyes and scoured the skies 
for sudden movement. Nothing. But 
then a sound- "vi-de-o vi-de-o vi-de-o 
, 
. 
vi-de-o, vi-de-o .... " The Carolina Wren. 

Seconds later, we heard more noise 
Com1non 
Yellowthroat 
then 
we 
watched it in flight. The tides had turned. 

· ~'I tell you, it's a great birding morning," 
said Parlapiano excitedly, ~'Everybody's 
moving." And by that point, at last, so 
were we. 
-EmifyK.oh 



**Reiki in the Operating Room**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
In the beige glow of an 
operating room at Yale-
New Haven Hospital, doctors lean over the body of 
Ken .Welch, a 61 year-old 
New Haven resident with 
colon cancer. Nurses, anesthesiologists, and assistants are present, aides 
to the invasive procedure. Among them is 
Claire Bessinger; and although she is not a 
medical practitioner, like the surgeons she is 
here to heal. The patient cannot speak for 
himself now, but before the surgery was 
scheduled, he asked Claire 
his Reiki 
Master 
to be present from pre-op to recovery 
room. For her, it is an awesome privilege: 
During the surgery, she performs Reiki on 
Ken, using touch to harness the natural energy 
of his body, so that it might respond more 
positively to this trauma and heal. At one 
point, the surgeon turns to Claire and asks: 
"Claire, would you please tell everyone here 
what it is you're doing and how it helps." 
Claire is using her fingers. The surgeons are 
using forceps. In this one small operating 
room, East meets West. 

It is speculated that the Reiki technique 
originated in the distant traditions of 
Buddhist, Tibetan, and perhaps even Christian 
monks, who used soft touch and massage to 
relax and heal the body with its own natural 
energies. A Japanese term for spiritually guided 
life and universal force energy, Reiki was 
conceived in its modern form by Dr. Mikao 
Usui. His .Usui System of Natural Healing 
outlines a series of tenets for the practice of 
Reiki based on a mystical experience he had 
on Mount Karuma in 1914. Today, it's practiced 
at Yale-New Haven in a fledgling program that 
may change the way the hospital 
relates to its patients. 


HAVING REIKI DURING HIS SURGERY WAS AN 
obvious choice for Ken. As one of Claire's disciples, 
he experienced the power of Reiki during training 
sessions. He had practiced it on 
his wife 
improving her knees, reducing her 
headaches, relieving her aches, and putting her 
to sleep. Last February, when Ken 
had a colon resection at Yale-New 
Haven, the doctor, he says, was not 
his only "advocate." Claire was by 
his side from the moment he arrived 
at the hospital. "I was not anxious 
once Claire got started. I felt more 
confident that things would go 
right 
there was a sense that my 
body would be less traumatized and it 
certainly reduced my stress," he 
recalls ten months later. 

Though he cannot definitively say 
that the duration of his hospital stay 
was shorter because of Reiki, Ken 
strongly believes "Reiki played a role 
in the speeding up of the healing. 
Yes, the Reiki has an effect on the 
body." In spite of the skepticism it 
inspires, who can say Ken's triumph 
is not due to the contribution of 
Reiki? "People look at me and say 
'you look great.' I have a sense that 
it's all behind me and I have thirty or 
forty years ahead of me." 

Reiki, as conceptualized by Dr. 
Usui, was intuitive 
it was, after all, 
based on a mystical experience. But 
after its arrival in the United States, 
the healing methodology became 
more structured. Today, Reiki has 
been lumped together with other 
Complementary 
Alternative 
Medicine (CAM) therapies, such as 
aromatherapy and herbal baths. 
None of these therapies is ailment 
specific, which is why I've tried them; 
they are general medical practices 
that promote relaxation and relief. 
Call me a Zen seeker, trendy, or Type 
A, but I have been known to seek out 
treatments that promise this kind of 
healing. So though I have never needed 
them to cure illness, having healing 
hands on my body is something 
I've grown used to. Reiki, however, 
was new to me, and, like all choosy 
consumers, I was skeptical. I had 
never tried acupuncture or hypnosis, 
and Reiki seemed closer to these less-
mainstream, but potentially more 
powerful therapies. Burdened with 
preconceptions, I set off to determine 
if it was the answer to my quest 
for calm. Theoretically, anyone will 
benefit from Reiki 
even me. Ken 
certainly believed in its power. Maybe 
I could too.


**Reiki and CAM Therapies**
**Page number(s): 18**

stream in the past two decades. But 
there is a wider context for the prevalence 
of the CAM industry rooted in its 
tenuous relationship with Western 
medicine and the evolution of that rela-
tionship over time. People have been 
using Chinese herbs for centuries. But 
recently, with the health care industry, 
and specifically pharmaceutical compa-
nies, driving costs up, CAM therapies 
have become a popular alternative to 
expensive traditional medicine. The 
bottom line is that, at least psychologically, 
you will feel better after one 
affordable hour spent with an acupuncturist 
than you would after ten pricey 
minutes spent with an internist. On the 
one hand, CAM therapies are seeking a 
marriage with Western medicine. On 
another, they are seeking a divorce. 


THE 
EUS CENTER FOR HEALTH 
and Healing where Amanda Wilson 
works is a scene that aligns closely with 
stereotypes of alternative therapy. 
Inside the small cottage-turned-wellness 
center, shelf upon shelf is weighed 
down by herbs, vitamins, potions, 
creams, salves, oils, and pills: diabetes 
control, diet formula, diet support, 
muscle-joint support, digestive system, 
allergy and sinus, cold and flu relief, 
immune builders, mood support, 
Chinese herbs. Welsh musician Enya's 
"Smooth Operator" lulls in the background. 
I look up at the "Evergain Chi 
Machine." It is on sale for $249 
a 
hundred dollar discount. Too bad I 
don't know what it does. 

Centers like Amadeus, though perhaps 
not as pretty, have cropped up 
throughout the Elm City, responding to 
a need and reacting to a trend. On a 
simple level, wellness centers are havens 
from the rigors of the everyday world, 
luring stressed-out seekers like me. 
They also cater to the popularity of 
"alternative," organic, and holistic 
lifestyles that have become more mainstream 
in the past two decades. 

Though she was raised in the 
Methodist Church 
her father was a 
pastor Amanda has found a new 
source of spiritual strength in Reiki. 
It's not necessarily religious, but there 
is an otherworldly component. "The 
great thing about Reiki and giving 
Reiki is that you're always receiving as 
you're giving," she said. "So the energy 
works through me as well as 
through the client. So I'm being 
healed as I'm healing." 

Amanda leads me into a candle-
lit room permeated by the scent of 
burnt sage and the harmonies of a 
"Reiki CD," which she pops into an 
unobtrusive stereo. I take off my 
shoes and slide onto the treatment 
table. She covers me with a blanket, 
and I stifle a giggle. This is my first 
Reiki treatment, and I am determined 
to take it seriously. I try to relax my 
smile and let myself be taken in by the 
walls of the tiny treatment room. It 
takes a few moments. I never seem to 
feel anxious being worked on by the 
hands of an unfamiliar massage therapist. 
But lying in the dim pink light, I 
am not only fully clothed, but covered. 
It is the anticipation of the unknown 
that wrestles my mind. 

Eyes closed, Amanda works down 
my chakras, sacred centers of my 



**Reiki at Amadeus**
**Author: Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 19-20**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
l 
• 
The gazebo at the Amadeus H ealth and H ealing Center is a far cry from a normal doctors office. 
body that correlate to colors, feelings, 
and physical symptoms. These energy 
hot-spots are an important element 
of Reiki for Amanda. Sometitnes she 
touches me lightly, other ritn,es her 
hands hover a few inches away from 
my body, redistributing my energy. I 
feel force and heat. "I'm just a con-
duit," she says softly. 

Time passes, and Amanda quiet-
ly finishes her work. While I attempt 
to rouse my limbs from the slumber 
they have slipped into, Amanda 
begins to offer tne _her diagnosis-
what she felt and then dealt with dur-
ing my treatment. I'm surprised-
apparently, she has treated problems 
I did not know I had. She tells me I 
have an excess of energy in my 
throat center it is blue in color and 
is associated with one's ability to 
conununicate. That seems reason-
able. But, she says, there are block-
ages in my sacral center below the 
navel, and at my solar plexus. 
November 2005 

Blockages indicate a problem with 
the function associated with that 
chakra, like the throat and communi-
cation. The blockage in my sacral, 
Amanda tells me, may indicate tur-
moil in the way I relate to my fatnily 
and friends, and on a physical level, 
may be connected to menstrual 
stress. The solar plexus rela..tes to 
self-love, self-esteem, the color yel-
low, the number three, and digestion. 
My blockage means I am struggling 
with deficiencies or conflicts in these 
matters. I have an easy titne putting 
all the pieces together; her diagnosis 
does seem plausible. But I can't help 
but think that, like the prophecy of a 
fortuneteller 
shuffling 
through 
clients, her words are so general, they 
could apply to anyone. 

''There is probably a psychosomat-
ic component to all of this, but that's 
not a bad thing," says Amanda. The 
purple amethyst dangling from the pale 
skin of her neck sways to the sound of 
her melodious voice. Amanda came to 
Reiki by chance, art incident that helped 
her heal the wounds of a traumatic 
childhood. ''It is a divine energy that is 
brought through 
the practitioner 
through the hands and into the client. 
But it's believed that they don't even 
need to believe in the energy in order 
for it to work," she says compellingly, 
''because it's always working." 

Amanda· uses Rejki energy to heal 
the wounds of the everyday world. She 
had a client who was struggling to sell 
her New Haven home; Amanda did 
Reiki on the house in a meditative 
state, visualizing the house and drawing 
certain symbols in the air 
and it sold. 

When she is not at Amadeus, she sends 
-distance treatments to the healing cen-
ter in this satne way 
so that business 
will be sound. The power of Reiki helps 
her sister with adult ADD achieve a 
meditative state. '~S, Hiv, cancer, all 
kinds of different pain, emotional phys-
ical 
I would love to see Reiki be more


**Reiki at Yale**
**Page number(s): 20-21**

Amadeus sells a pltehora of alternative healing medications. 
of the number one healing modality 
used," says Amanda passionately. ''It's 
helpful because it's not invasive and you 
can experience change· without feeling 
traumatic effects." 

Here, at my first 
Reiki session, I did experience change. I 
don't know if Amanda illuminated my 
wanting chakras with energy, but I did 
feel a sense of caltn. 
.. .LJ>A. HAD TOLD ME, 'cy OU CAN'T 
OD on Reiki,'' so that afternoon I drive 
across New Haven for more, without 
feeling like a junkie. For Claire 
Bessinger, Ken's Reiki Master, the sense 
of intuition and mysticism associated 
with Reiki is secondary: Its power and 
importance lies in its physicality and 
palpability. Claire does not have to tell 
me that. It is evident in the way she 
guides her hands to specific points on 
my body, as I lie on the · examination 
table in the quiet darkness with only the 
sound of Claire's bare feet pattering on 
the linoleum. I breathe deeply. This 
afternoon, I am completely at ease, 
though it was only several tninutes ago 
that this woman, now using her hands 
to generate heat in an area neat my 
breasts, greeted me for the first tirne. 

We meet in her office at 100 
Church Street, where she has worked 
at Yale Medical Publications for 17 
years. After a brief exchange, she 
leads me down several passageways 
into a harshly lit elevator. We are 
going to a quiet place, a room where 
she will give me a 35-minute Reiki 
treatment. She opens a door and 
reveals ten mock examination beds, 
with shiny instruments protruding 
like mangled limbs. It is a laboratory 
.where, two hours later, obstetrics 
gynecology students from UConn 
Medical School will rehearse exami-
nations and deliveries. Had I not 
experienced Reiki for the first ti rne 
earlier that morning, I would have 
thought I was in for the worst. 

Claire came to Reiki when she 
was training to be a volunteer at the 
Connecticut hospice in Branford in 
2000. In February 2001, she contin-
ued her training at a public and 
optional class offered at the Yale 
School of Nursing. After that class, 
Claire was Reiki "one and two," hav-
ing mastered the second of four lev-
els or attunements. "I said 'this is 
really great.' And I could go out and 
start using Reiki on my fa~y, my 
friends, my cats, whatever," s_~e. says. 
''And that's what I did." But a '¥ear 
later, Claire wanted to do more with,;· 
the new power she had tapped into. 
"During that year, some of the 
women I met in that class who were 
at the School of Nursing started to 
notice changes in me, just a different 
intensity in my life and a different 
focus, and I started to evolve into 
who I am now." 

If she had a second official posi-
tion at Yale, in addition to her role at 
Yale Medical Publications, Claire 
might be "Sterling Master of the Arts 
in Reiki." Claire is behind the Reiki at 
reading week's Wellness Program and 
other similar programs sponsored by 
the Hall of Graduate Studies and the 
Yale Health Plan. She is also an 
instructor for the program at Yale-
New Haven Hospital which sends vol-
unteer Reiki practitioners into the 
oncology clinic, cardiology, rehab, and 
the long-term medicine wards. Unlike 
Amanda's working conditions, at the 
hospital it is tnandatory that Reiki 
therapists touch their patients: "Reiki 
can be done above the bo_dy in the 
energy field. I don't teach that way; I 
wasn't taught that way," says. Claire 
matter-of-facdy. "No matter how a


**Energy Medicine at Amadeus**
**Page number(s): 21**

practitioner was taught, we ask them to 
use touch. A hospital isn't going to be 
receptive of Reiki that doesn't involve 
touch or you go around waving your 
arms in the air doing things." 

In the 
hospital, Claire believes Reiki is an 
affirmation of the power of touch, an 
emotional association between the 
medical world and the patient: HFor a 
pa:tient in a hospital, if all you have is 
30 seconds to hold their hand, it's 
going t<? _ oe a powerful experience ... A 
patient who has a need is going to draw 
that energy iri ;t:P,at thirty seconds much 
faster." 

'lbirty~tiv"~· mjnutes Jater, in quiet 
repose on the examination table in the 
basement of 100 Church Street, I feel 
relaxed and warm not sleepy. Claire 
finishes quiedy and tells me to take my 
ttrne geu•ng up. 

"It's really allowing the person," she 
whispers, "I don't heal you. What 
Reiki does is allow you to heal yourself 
from within. It's not me 
I just bring 
lt to you. 

I lay motionless for a few minutes 
contemplating my status. I had a basis 
for comparison. And though the treat-
ments I received were different, I felt 
peaceful after both sessions 
an 
extreme state of relaxation that I had 
never experienced before, or at least 
not frequendy enough to identify it. 

CLAIRE PERCEIVES REIKI AS "BASIC 
simple energy work," and Amanda sees 
it as a '~ealing modality''; but to Sal 
Amadeo, Amanda's boss and the 
owner of Amadeus Center for Health 
and HeaHngJ and Amanda's boss, CAM 
therapy is a science and a business. 
When I ask hirn if he's a doctor, his 
answer is serious and brisk: "Oh yeah, 
ointment in a time 
zon. 

I'm definitely a doctor. People call me . 
·doctor all the time." Sal Amadeo prac-
tices energy medicine. But as obvious 
as his credentials may seem, watching 
hitn do a treatment forces one to admit 
that there is a methodology to his work 
that yields a very specific outcome. It 
may not be science as I know it, but it 
scientifically achieves its objectives. 

The word "doctor" can perhaps be 
used as a relative term: Sal is a doctor 
of the type of medicine he practices.-. 
an expert, an innovator, an authority 
Energy medicine is a synthesis of 
CAM therapies, incorporating Reiki, 
Chinese medicine, herbal medicine, 
acupuncture, alchemy, an herb called 
Moxa, Edgar Casey formulas, and 
never Jitniting itself to one. "It's the 
combination of tools I have in my 
toolbox that makes it unique," 
Sal 
says. "Doctors tell me this is real med-
icine ... It's a whole system." Sal knows 
· that what people like about energy 
medicine it is the fact that no two 
patients are treated alike. "If my medi-
cine were covered by insurance, it 
would be difficult for you to get an 
appointment in a tin1ely fashion," he 
says prophetically. His _opinion gets



**Rising Prices and New Age Therapies**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
' 
• 
. 
back to the dilemma of Western medi- · 
cine: Rising prices are driving people 
towards cheaper new age therapies 
that they may not fully understand, 
but that make them feel better. "I'm 
just working my business. . . I need to 
make a living; I need to pay my bills." 
Sal says he's not even sure if his busi-
ness is making money . but he is 
smart. By anticipating a trend, he may 
he on Jhe cusp of success. 
But for the moment, he can only 
do what he does best heal. A young 
wotnan has 41rrived at Amadeus HeaHng 
Center looking qistraught and appoint-
ment ... less, so Sal agrees to squeeze her 
in an \llllik.ely leniency at a traditional 
doctor's offi.ce~d ushers me into the 
treatment room with hisn. She is feeling 
very emotional about · 
I set myself 
in the comer of the room, which is dec-
orate~ with Native American regalia-
feathers, hides .and ·dotted with all 
kinds of bottles and what I can only 
guess are Sal's "tools." First a · 
· 
He palpates her abdom~n to find the 
tender spots and concludes, "She is very 
stressed." Next, he takes her pulse, 
looks for a 
between the carotid 
.and radial arteries, and it becomes very 
obvious to hi•n to that the left side of 
her body is imbalanced. His movements 
are quick but meticulous. H~ scuffles 
around, grabs 
from a shelf, 
and opens a box with stnaJI silver and 
gold press-tacks. He rips the plastic 
open with his teeth, extracts 
the tacks, and presses them into her fin-
gers, pahn side ·up. He repeats this sev-
eral risnes, a practice that gives new 
meaning to the word "thumb-tack." 
I could never have anticipated what 
he does next. He grabs a needle gun, 
tells the patient to ''breathe in," and 
shoots an acupuncture needle between 
the two tacks. ''This is going to help her 
with anxiety ... balance the root of her 
problem:. . and also address the symp-
tom," he says, eyes on the patient who 
has hers closed tight. In the corner, 
awestruck, afraid to ask if it hurts, I just · 
nod, as I position my chair so the patient 
can .rest her needle-ridden arm on it. 


''If I had more ri•ne, I would put 
castor oil on her abdomen with white 
wool flannel; but because I don't have 
enough ti•ne, I'm just going to use a 
Ja•np;' Sal said. I have never seen a 
la1np like this before. It has seven long, 
skinny bulbs in the colors associated 
with each chakra. He carefully places it 
close to her abdomen. The specialized 
treaunent Sal has just concocted for 
this young woman exemplifies his 
notion of what medicine should be-
"hwnan and hmnane." As he says, it 
does not treat people like "car parts." 
"I feel good, I feel the energy;' the 
womari says, and then after a moment, 
"Amanda said I had issues with my 
third eye chakra." 
Sal inunediately 
knows what to do. He sticks an 
acupuncture needle in the smaJl space 
between her eyebrows. "She said I had 
issues with grounding," the woman 
continues. Sal has an answer: ''Imagine 
the roots coming from your feet 
par-
ticularly kidney one which is at the bot-
tom of your foot. . . gently contract 
· your anus to bring energy up." After all, 
he is the doctor . 



**The Scientific Rigor of CAM**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

"I AM THE VICE-CHAIR OF THE 
department of Anesthesiology, the 
Anesthesiology Chief of Yale-New"".-
Haven Children's Hospital, and the'' 
-
~ 
Professor of Anesthesiology, Pediatrics, 
and Child Psychiatry at Yale University," 
says Dr. Zeev Kain, a slender, clean-
shaven man who has just stored his 
lunch in the fridge and filled his coffee 
mug. As if Dr. Kain does not wear 
enough hats, he is also a researcher: He 
studies 
the 
perioperative 
stress 
response 
the responses of a patient 
before, during, and after surgery. 'We 
do research involving pharmacological 
interventions, behavioral interventions, 
as well as CAM interventions ... We do 
exceptionally rigorous science;' he says. 
''In the world of CAM, exceptionally 
rigorous is not always the case. That is 
one of the problems." 

Dr. Kain, who is also part of one of 
the prestigious National Institute of 
Health study groups, offers a perspec-
tive based on his medical expertise and 
a unique international insight 
he was 
born in Israel. "The U.S. is really the 
country of the free... Doctors of 
osteopathies, podiatrists, optometrists: 
these entities do not exist in Europe. 
It's all the same with CAM therapy-
somebody wants to say they're a thera-
pist, all they need to do is put a shingle 
on and say 'I'm a therapist."' 


Dr. Kain calls for a more institu-
tionalized basis for CAM, one that 
would make it less of an industry and 
more of a science. "It is a very com-
mon sentitnent that anything that 
smells like CAM has nothing to do 
with science. However, over the past 
ten years there have been tremendous 
changes around the world 
you can 
see articles published of CAM inter-
ventions in multiple top-of-the-line sci-
entific journals." 

Dr. Kain is leading by example, 
advocating change by conducting 
exceptional research, but his voice is 
only one in a small chorus of doctors 
and scientists around the world. "One 
of the ieaSons why it's changing slowly 
is because there are a lot of charlatans 
... 
in the world ,af CAM therapy. And so 
every Joe"bpet;if~g,JJ: clinic of acupunc-
ture charges·r - ~iiry;buc~s . a shot and 
,. _,. 
.. 
does sometHing that may or may not 
help." His research group, including 
the esteemed Dr. Shu-Ming Wang, 
international acupuncture expert, 
and Dr. Halaeh Sadat, the leading 
authority on hypnosis, is fu1611ing 
a scientific responsibility to the 
greater 
cormnunity 
of 
patients 
contributing to CAM 
literature to show what gets 
results, and what doesn't. 


**Yale and CAM**
**Page number(s): 23**

Because the dis-
course that Dr. Kain 
and his renowned 
research 
teana 
engage in is rele-
v a 
five 
n 
t 
years 
ago, 
National 
Institute 
of Health, the pulse of the medical 
world, established an institute for alter-
native medicine it would seem logical 
that Yale, as a visionary institution, 
would want to invest in the future of 
CAM. It would be easy for them to 
back more projects like Dr; Kain's and 
the two or three other CAM research 
groups at the University. 

After all, Harvard has appropriated 
such monies. The Harvard Medical 
School Osher Institute is arguably the 
most progressive institution in the 
world when it comes to education and 
research regarding CAM therapies. Not 
only does it support multiple impres-
sively-sized research groups, but it has 
worked to incorporate CAM therapies 
into the curriculum of the Medical 
School. Yale, · by contrast, takes an 
unflinching old guard view of CAM. 

Reiki programming at Yale-New 
Haven may represent the New Haven 
patient's interest more strongly than it 
does Yale's. 

"The list of things that have been 
documented to work is quite 
short," says Dr. Kain of specific 
CAM techniques. But CAM 
therapies have a predeter-
mined future. As much as 
they will be incorporated 
into traditional medicine, 
they will never replace it. 
''Let's be realistic, if you 
have appendicitis, we 
need to take your 
appendix out ... 
So I believe in 
what's called 
Inte-
grate 
Western traditional medicine 
which 
is the gold standard for me. . . and you 
add to it. a piece from eastern medicine 
that helps." 

One question is whether Yale will 
adapt to this model and do some inte-
grating of its own of CAM research 
and education in its curriculum. Perhaps 
Yale should model itself after Dr. Kain: 
traditional at heart, but innovate. and rel-
evant. "Eventually institutions. . . will 
have to go with the flow. It's just a ques-
tion of 'are you going to flow today, 
three years from now, or five years from 
now?' You will have to go with the flow." 


**Reiki: A Personal Experience**
**Author: Romy Druckefj**

I CAN CHOOSE TO BEIJEVE THAT REIKI 
is unscientific and that Claire, Amanda, 
and Sal do not have healing hands. I can 
choose to believe that what I felt when 
I got Reiki was psychological.· I can 
choose to believe that Reiki is just a glo-
rified massage. But I don't want to 
believe that. I want to think that over 
the next week, I will feel more relaxed. 
M energy levels will catapult and I will 
fe 1 refreshed, that I can turn to Reiki 
n~xt tirne I need relie£ I felt it. I experi-
enced it. I am one chapter in a body of 
evidence, and no doctor can tell me 
otherwise. For this moment, I'm as 
good as the best science they've got. 

Most CAM therapies like Reiki may 
not be scientifically proven to work, but 
for a few minutes or an hour, they tnake 
the patient his or her own doctor. They 
give you a sense of control; and even if 
they are only relaxing you, that relax-
ation improves quality of life and likely 
promotes healing. Ken Welch only has 
vague reminiscences of Claire working 
on hitn before and after his colon sur-
gery. But for the tirne she was with him, 
and for the tirne she was with me, what 
Ken and I both had was perhaps more 
irnportant than pills or splints. It was 
· the agency to heal ourselves, and that 
can never be proven otherwise . 

Romy Druckefj a junior in Davenport 
College, is Editor-in-Chief of TN]. 



**Title: November 22, [Oof!] Be it Resolved**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
November 22, [Oof!] Be it Resolved that the Undergraduate Council allocate $1600 for celebratory t-shirts; and Be it Resolved that the Campus Life Committee be charged . with deciding upon an appropriately pompous design for . this shirts [sic], demonstrating our superior senses of humor ... " The resolution passed the executive board with unanimous huzzahs, as it does every year. Indeed, the usual Harvard shirts are pompous: most say something along the lines of "Yale: Harvard's Safety School" or "Yale: Harvard fot Dummies." 
But "Refining the Rivalry," a piece printed in The Harvard Crimson, took issue with those shirts that purported to demonstrate ''superior senses of humor." This shirt is Yale~ bestseller.

The article's author enlisted Ms. Mannersmith, an etiquette expert, to evaluate proper game attire. "The idea is to cheer and have spir-it for your team without being nasty," Ms. Mannersmith said, warning Cantabs of the "fine line between displaying school spirit and talking trash."


Chris ''Gritz" Schonberger manages Cock Tees Productions, an underground Harvard startup that would certainly disagree with Mannersmith's gentle nay-saying. "Good tees are usually inappropri-ate or. offensive," Gritz wrote in an email. "That 'safety school' shit is tired. That's why we're going for the black tee look this year, a more thuggish spin on the general Game tee." 
The Cock Tees design Schonberger praises is based on the 2004 debut album cover of rapper The Game, and was produced in secret in Schonberger's common room using iron-on transfers. The boys will have to sell them on the black market. To hawk a shirt sporting the university name at Harvard, one must be part of a regulated student group and cough up 7.5 percent of profits in royal-ties to the Harvard Copyright Office. "Or your tees ~ill be seized," wrote a , addened Schonberger, "like so many pounds of cocaine." 

So what about Harvard Tees that mock the Yale name? Do they have to pay to use our fancy four letters? "There's a sort of informal agreement with Harvard between our licensing offices," said Denise Castallano, Yale's Licensing program Coordinator. "If Harvard sees something with our name on it they tell us. It's common courtesy." 
A dirty blonde who spends her days in a basement office where stacks of solicitations requesting use of the University's logos stretch ceiling-ward, Castellano doesn't have a lot of time for t-shirts. And anyway, Yale students need not worry about licensing rights: For "internal use" there's no price. But students are expected to uphold the alma mater, and never to produce vulgar designs. Castellano prefers this year's official design at Barnes & Noble, in which the two teams' helmets angle toward each other in a typical face-off pose. "That was nice," Castellano said of the shirt. "I don't approve of anything thaes offensive. Though a lot of people go ahead and do things."


Yale student designs have been more "appropriately pompous" than the official bookstore's running the gamut from the classic "Fuck Harvard" to the crass "Fuck Harvard?". For the discrete consumer (perhaps the mother whose children are just learning how to spell) there's ccHuck Farvard." (And Harvard's got its own ccYuck Fale.") 
Then there's the most popular design, which appears to be a column of blocky nonsense letters until the fabric is folded like a Mad Magazine back-page or an elegant window-dressing to reveal the hidden phrase: "Puck Harvard." "It's our best seller," said Ken, who requested a pseudonym. Throughout the fecund week of November, he'd sold the shirt in Commons — "hopefully make some money," this semester's society. Flashy and ubiquitous, the design called to arms a November 2001 Yale Record satire: "What if we made this t-shirt that said 'Fuck Harvard.' And then when you folded it together it said 'Puck Harvard.' Again. And if you folded it up again, it said 'Puck Harvard' again and so on?" 

And so on. And so forth. For the past 25 years, the screenprint and design division of Broadway's Campus Customs Clothing Co., Inc. has captained the bulk of Yale's design orders. Wiry manager Barry Cobden doesn't see the scrimmage for a winning shirt as anything new: "I wouldn't be surprised if at the first game played, somehow someone wasn't wearing something in the spirit of the game." Today the store offers the "thinkingman's version of a Harvard-Yale shirt" in the front window (a heather gray short-sleeve imprinted with the rhetorical "Harvard does what?" and a corresponding lollipop.) However, most November 2005 students opt for the store's design-your-own-shirt service. "Sure, they go too far sometimes," .Cobden says, speaking of more vulgar designs. "This is the type of shirt I'd recommend," he says, pointing to a conservative tee imprinted with "The Game, 2005" in a stiff serif font. "For someone who keeps chronological order of all their t-shirts, this is the one you pull out to show someone in one hundred years and say, 'This is one hundred years old.'... The other ones are fun," Cobden admits—,"but only for the moment."


Those "other ones" are printed by frats, sports teams, and student  publications who proudly proclaim with each design that they're pretty sure they won't be alive to see the 2105 kickoff. Arguably (depending on your levels of joie-de-vivre and poo-poo humor) Rumpus puts out the strongest shirt each year and keeps their design a surprise until a much anticipated unveiling. How do they do it? "Rumpus does not vote," wrote Editor-in-Chief Lacy Gattis, in an email, "It would be anathema to our artistic goals and hurts our arms.''


In the retread of forty years of tee designs, Rumpus' goal at their annual tee design debate is to "provide a visual gag more clever and more timely than a bulldog humping a Cantab," Gattis wrote. Though that design "sold like hot-cakes" according to this year's designer, Mike Dunham, "we can usually come up with better ideas than that." A problem, perhaps, was the 2002 Harvard response to the Cantab "rape" shirt. A year after the bulldog anally raped the pilgrim, Harvard now put out a shirt that showed a Cantab sitting pretty while a bulldog, crouched on the ground before his master, performed fellatio. Rumpus let the track grass over and the next year came out with a tee that was either too highbrow or too lowbrow to sell well: "Ve-ri-tas My Salad," the shirt read. "The problem was people either didn't know what the phrase 'toss my salad' meant or thought it was so gross they refused to wear it," said Rumpus



**Yale's Game Day T-Shirt Tradition**
**Author: Adriane Quinlan**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
In 1942's Football pamphlet" Yale gets tanked.

staffer Maureen Miller. "We had a 
few people though, me included, 
who thought it was brilliant." 
Ultimately, the shirt failed. 
This year's design steps back 
slightly: Staffers debated over a 
shirt that would be "offensive 
but 
not too offensive." Ideally, the crew 
would like to actually turn a profit, 
which they have in the past: Their 
very first design sported a line-
drawing of the phallic Harkness 
tower, accompanied by the biting 
text: "Harvard Sucks. But Yale 
Sucks Better." The profit they made 
on that visual "gag" allowed them 
to print their publication monthly 
a huge step financially. 

Sigma Alpha Epsilon's pledges 
sell shirts "to raise money for their 
pledge 
project 
usually 
an 
improvement to the infrastructure 
of the house. ''For example,'' said 
Fraternity president Billy Deitch, 
"rebuilding the basement bar." Two 
years ago the frat put out one of 
the most successful shirts in recent 
memory, 
the 
front of which 
argued, "You'd have to be crazy to 
go to Harvard.;." and the back of 
which provided evidence: a picture 
of Unabomber Ted Kaczynski, 
Harvard Class of 1962. A later 
shirt was more minimal in design, 
"VE-RI-DUM," which Branford 
Senior Jonathan Breit claimed as 
his 
favorite 
game 
shirt: 
"Everything is perfect: the number 
of syllables, the latin-esque ending 
of 'dum,' the fact that 'dumb' is 
misspelled. It just works." 

This year for the first time, 
Community 
Health 
Educators 
(CHE) 
a group of student sex 
educators who work at New 
Haven high schools 
plans to 
print a socially conscious t-shirt. 
"Many of the designs we were 
debating said something to the 
effect of 'Herpes ... Heptatitis ... 
HPV... Fuck Harvard. -But use a 
condom," wrote Cara Demmerle, 
CHE co-coordinator. "Ultimately,


---

we were worried that students 
might not want a t-shirt with 
'Herpes' written in 
on the 
front .. ; The final design does 
make a joke at · abstinence's 
expense, but I think it is ulti-
mately much more palpable than 
the earlier designs." As opposed 
to the frats and .humor maga-
zines, CHB was hesitant to print 
on Campus Coponis' t-shirts 
because they ' ~~~e . produced in 
sweatshops. The ;group went for 
more expensive tees offered by 
American Apparel; a chain that 
sells bulk rates on shirts made in 
regulated working conditions. 

Like CHE, the club Water 
Polo team wanted their design to 
fit their moral code 
a record of 
good sportsmanship. "We wanted 
a shirt that was more clever," said 
Fundraising Coordinator Sherry 
Wang. "We didn't want a shirt 
like 'Who's your Daddy,' or 
'Harvard's mom since 1701.'" 

Last year, the team released the 
heart-warming "Everybody loves 
a Yalie" shirt, which sold like a 
pack of Camels in a Texas 
prison. This year's design is similarly 
uncontroversial: a group of 
scarlet stick-figures holding up 
placards 
spelling 
"Harvard 
Sucks," and on the b~ck, Yalies 
say: "You said it, not us," alluding 
to-a prank played last year on 
the Harvard fans. 

For the two weeks before the 
game, a row of fold-out tables in 
the foyer of Commons becomes a 
makeshift bazaar of Game tees for 
passing Yalies. "What is this?" a 
girl 
asked 
one 
Monday 
in 
November, passing the table commandeered by members of the 
Pundits society. She was pointing 
to 
a 
t-shirt 
printed 
in the 
University's font, which simply 
said, "ALE," sans igrec. "It's Yale 
without the 'Y,"' said the staffer 
selling the shirt, "It's the essence 
of Yale. There are youth sizes!" 
When the customer walked away 
to a table offering the usual bland 
fare 
("Harvard 
Sucks. 
And 
Princeton Doesn't Matter"), the 
Pundit sighed. "It's the most 
straightforward design possible." 

Though the Harvard-Yale 
design is often straightforward, 
it has come a long way from the 
game itself, and few shirts ever 
have anything at all to do with 
football. "No one cares who 
wins," said one drunken senior at 
a party two weeks before kickoff. 
"Everyone cares who had · the 
fucking coolest shirt." The Yale 
Record's elegant satire from 2001 
summed up what a lot of people 
felt. As their number-one suggestion, the magazine proposed 
a shirt that would be blank 
except for one block of text. 
"My hatred for Harvard," it 
would read, "outweighs my apathy 
for football." 

Adriane Quinlan, a junior in Calhoun 
College, is a managing editor of TNJ.



**The Body in the Cellar**
**Author:  [No Author Listed]**
**Page number(s): 30**

Just past midnight over 
180 years ago, the 
grave of 17 year-old 
Bathsheba Smith, the 
daughter of a West 
Haven farmer,-was 
found dug up, the coffin 
broken into, and 
the body missing. Horrified, the citizens of 
West Haven immediately pointed angry fingers 
at nearby Yale Medical College. The next 
morning, on January 12, 1824, public outrage 
forced New Haven's constable, Erastus 
Osborn, to lead a surprise search party into 
the medical school, then located on the corner 
of Grove and College Street where SSS now 
stands. The team searched the building from 
top to bottom to no avail. They were on the 
verge of quitting when they decided to peer 
into an unexplored subterranean room. 
Osborn related what followed in a letter to his 
father written later that same day: 
At length in a small low Cellar, we came to a 
place in the pavement (the Cellar being paved with 
large flat stones) which looked generally like the bottom 
of the Cellar throughout, but appeared to have a trifle 
of fresh dirt lying scattered about, hardly however discernible. I scratched with the end of my walking stick 
and the more I examined the more suspicion was entertained. We soon found the earth appeared fresher between 
the stones & finally took up a large flat stone where 
we discovered a white bundle, apparently a bundle of 
clothes. We examined & found a human body doubled up in a heap entirely covered up with the grave 
clothes. We took it out and it was immediately 
known to be the body of the young Woman we was 
searching for. 

Jonathan Knight, a Yale anatomy professor, 
denied any knowledge of the business and 
arranged for the body to be wrapped discreetly 
in a cap and sheet and loaded into a wagon 
bound for West Haven. But word of the discovery spread quickly. Crowds of citizens 
thronged the wagon as it moved down College 
and Chapel Streets. Osborn's letter tells of several bells pealing at once, whipping the mass 
into a "great pitch" as the town filled with 
rumors. Yalies armed themselves and took 



**Title: The Case of Bathsheba Smith**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
shelter behind the campus gates, 
waiting for an attack. Osborn wrote, 
"A Drum has beat & the Streets are 
crowded with the besieging army 
preparing for the assault." At nightfall, 
a mob of about six hundred men armed 
with pistols, clubs, and daggers hurled 
stones and burning coal at the medical 
building. They shouted "Tear down the 
college" and "Death to the students," 
drowning out the officers who tried to 
restore order by reading the state's Riot 
Act. Meanwhile, the medical students 
responsible for the body-snatching stole 
off amidst the chaos, never to be 
apprehended. The siege continued for 
two nights, and the state militia had to be 
called in to quell the riot. Despite a lack 
of evidence, the townspeople eventually 
found a scapegoat - in Ephraim Colborn, 
a medical assistant. He was sentenced 
to nine months imprisonment, fined $300 
dollars, and just barely escaped being 
tarred and feathered outside the 
courthouse. 


Yale was not the first institution to 
come under siege following the 
discovery of a disinterred body in its 
possession, and it would not be the last. 
Similar uprisings erupted in 
Philadelphia, Baltimore, and, most 
famously, New York - the 1788 
"Doctor's Riots." But by the end of the 
nineteenth century, legislation, combined 
with shifting attitudes towards dissection, 
finally provided physicians with enough 
legal cadavers to keep the doctors out of 
graveyards. By then, the image of 
"resurrectionists," as professional grave 
robbers were called, had already been 
fixed in the popular imagination. Portraits 
of these grim characters, creeping through 
midnight graveyards wielding pick-axes, 
shovels, and hooded lamps, as well as 
horrific portrayals of the cadavers' fates 
popped up in much of the literature of 
the time, from the graverobbing Dr. 
Robinson in The Adventures of Tom Sawyer 
to the creation of a grisly living cadaver 
in Frankenstein. 


Though the New Haven riot fueled 
sensational headlines in 1824, grave 
robbing by medical schools was old news 
to New Haven locals. By 1830, nine 
medical schools had been founded in New 
England alone, and more were added to 
the roster each year. Like Yale, all agreed 
that anatomy was a foundational course, 
and that dissection of a real human body 
was indispensable. 


But where would all these dead bodies 
come from? At the time, the only legal 
means of obtaining cadavers was from the 
bodies of executed murderers, a practice 
inherited from English Common Law. But 
in Massachusetts, for instance, only forty 
criminals were executed between 1800 and 
1830. Most medical schools legally 
received only one or two cadavers per year 
- a trickle that couldn't satisfy the 
swelling number of aspiring physicians. 


Thus, like its English counterparts, Yale 
medical students took to scouring the fresh 
graves of nearby cemeteries, often 
employing teams of experienced 
"resurrectionists" for the job. 


On that night in 1824, the 
perpetrators (no one knows for certain 
whether resurrectionists or the students 
themselves committed the crime) took a 
wagon to the West Haven cemetery. 
Carrying a hooded lamp to avoid catching 
the eye of anybody still awake, they would 
have spread a tarpaulin around the fresh 
grave to catch the dirt they unearthed. To 
save time and minimize disturbance, they 
would have only dug a hole at the head of 
the grave, then sawed through the top end 
of the coffin. Through the passageway they 
had created, they would have used a hook, 
made of an iron bar about five feet long, to 
extract the body headfirst. Back at the 
medical school, they may have first put 
Bathsheba's body inside one of the oblong 
niches cut into the walls of the cellar to 
store cadavers before concealing her 
beneath the stone floor. As far as hiding 
places went, Yale's were less sophisticated 
than those at its peer institutions; other 
medical schools often stored cadavers 
inside their domed roofs or fashioned 
pulleys to hoist bodies into the chimneys of 
large fireplaces. 


It is unknown just how many bodies were 
stolen throughout the nineteenth century. 
(One historian places the number at 
several thousand.) However, the extent to 
which lawmakers and the public perceived 
the problem to be widespread is 
well-established. By 1818, every New 
England state had passed laws against grave 
robbing, though only a handful of 
perpetrators were ever brought to court. 
The fear of being snatched away from one's 
final resting place was so great that 
measures to protect the dead often 
surpassed those to protect the living. The 
most basic method of keeping bodies 
underground was to pack the grave with 
bundles of straw, sticks, and large slabs of 
stone to slow down potential diggers. A 
more sophisticated variation was to place 
thick planks lengthwise across the coffin, 
forcing resurrectionists to exhume the 
entire grave. Other, usually more affluent 
New Englanders, preferred to hire a 
night-watch to sit beside a grave with a 
shotgun. The most grotesque tactic was to 
simply leave the body in a vault for several 
weeks, allowing the tissue to decompose 
past recognition and educational 
usefulness before burying it in a cemetery.


New Haveners' paranoia was no doubt 
stoked by similar events in Britain, where 
the threat of body snatching was so great 
that macabre ads selling iron coffins ran in 
the papers:


Many hundred bodies will be dragged from 
their wooden coffins this winter, for the 
anatomical lectures... The violation of the 
sanctity of the grave is said to be needful, 
for the instruction of the medical pupil, but 
let each one about to inter a mother, child, 
or friend, say shall I devote this object of my 
affection to such a purpose; if not, the only 
safe coffin is Bridgman's Patent wrought-iron 
one, charged the same price as a wooden 
one, and is a superior substitute for lead.


Not surprisingly, most of these 
preventative measures were financially 
unattainable for the poor, leaving them 
vulnerable to the late-night raids of nearby 
medical schools. Well aware of this, in 1788 
blacks living in New York City petitioned 
the Common Council to provide some degree 
of protection from resurrectionists. Their 
pleas were ignored. Most affluent whites 
took a cynical view, claiming that as long as 
"the only subjects procured for dissections 
are the productions of Africa" then surely 
no person can object." But resurrectionists 
were often willing to plunder the graves of 
poor whites as well; many medical schools 
targeted graveyards near almshouses. In an 
1878 interview, a graverobber, when asked 
whether he had ever been shot at, replied 
"Oh no, we let private cemeteries alone."


Ironically, the one legal channel for 
obtaining cadavers was largely to blame for 
much of the stigma attached to dissection. 
Donating the cadavers of executed 
murderers to science was not just an act of 
efficiency. The prospect of having one's 
body splayed open and taken apart was 
meant to act as a deterrent, a punishment 
reserved for the most abhorrent of 
murderers - creating a cultural 
association between dissection and 
criminality. 


Thus, the discovery of Bathsheba Smith's 
body concealed in the bowels of the Yale 
Medical College would have been cause for a 
particularly sharp sense of outrage. The 
daughter of a respectable, landed family, 
Bathsheba was certainly no criminal. So 
why should she share the fate normally 
doled out to the lowest individuals in 
society? 


And yet when the townspeople of New 
Haven picked up their pistols and clubs, 
they were expressing something deeper than 
the ever-present concerns of race, class, and




**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 34-35**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I
criminality. Already by the turn of
the nineteenth century, the legacy
of Puritanism had lost its firm hold
•
on New Englanders. Puritanism's
emphasis on the physical tortures
of hell was actually a kind of prepa-
ration
for the threat of the
anatomist's knife. Steeped in the
orthodox Calvinist preoccupation
with
mankind's
corruptibility,
• •
opened their doors for business
were of dubious quality. The result
was often cavalier attitudes towards
education, and particularly towards
dissection. After forcing his way
into a medical school during the
New York Doctors Riot, Colonel
William Heth recorded his shock at
being confronted with the "wantori
and inhuman complexion of the
••
But despite Yale's best efforts,
the dissection table still confronts
students
the
impersonal ..
nature of practicing medicine.
"When we see patients we general-
ly don't ask them what they do,
what they're like," Chen reflected.
"The way we see people in hospi-
tals is completely different from
who they are. [Anatomy class]
aranoza
as no
z ar even s zn
ere
e
• zron co
Puritans viewed the decay of a
corpse after death as indicative of
human sin, making dissection less
of a sacrilegious concept, though
by no means an acceptable one. The
growing demand for cadavers hit
New England at the same time that
attitudes towards dea.th
and famil-
iarity with the threat of posthu-
mous physical destruction
had
begun to shift.

As Puritanism faded from view,
Victorian primness began to take
hold. Increasingly, people in the
Northeast
sentimentalized
bodies of the· dead. It became
common around this time to hold
on to keepsakes, typically a lock of
hair, from the deceased. In the lat-
ter half of the century, post-
mortem pictures also spread in
popularity, taken in the hopes of
clinging to an imperishable image
of loved ones.

This idealized vision of the
body as a memorial unfortunately
coincided with the growing pains
of modern medicine. Nineteenth-
century America needed more doc-
tors, and some of the dozens of
medical colleges that suddenly
34
zns ran zn
room," where body parts had been
strung up in "a most brutal posi-
tion."· At the same time that the
general public began to collect
postmortem photographs, medical
students began their own under-
ground genre, trading amongst
each other gruesome · snapshots
taken inside the hallowed dissect-
ing room. When Erastus Osborn
uncovered Bathsheba's body in the
cellar, the townspeople were forced
to hold these two opposing con-
cepts of death in contradistinction.

Today at Yale Medical School,
the approach couldn't be more dif-
ferent. For one, bodies are now
voluntarily donated rather than
taken from open graves. Before
ever stepping into the anatomy
lab, first-year students hear a talk
by second-years who stress the
sacrifice that "donors"
as the
bodies are called
have made in
giving their bodies to the medical
school and the respect they should
be accorded. Justin Chen, a sec-
ond-year, said that the first time
his class saw the cadavers, they
were told, "Now you are going to
meet your donor."
aca
-
brought this home bec~use ·-[the
donor] is there so we can take therp
"'~
apart." Both Chen and his 1824
predecessors hit on one of the (un-
damental <.:onflicts of medicine:
Doctors must look at the body both
as a person to be healed and a spec-
imen to be examined. Julia Bess
Frank, a doctor at the Yale Medical
School in the 1970s once explained,
"Medicine, as a serving profession,
is accorded great license, permis-
sion to inflict all sorts of pain and
indignity on patients, doing bad in
order to prevent worse, in ho.pes of
curing disease."

Meanwhile, outside the medical
school walls, the rose-washed
Victorian view of death persists.
At the Beecher and Bennett
Funeral Home in Hamden, CT,
trained staff members work to
meet the expectations of -grieving
families.
According
to
Erin
Hastings, a funeral director and
embalmer at Beecher and Bennett,
many family members care most
about "the way the deceased
looks." Most of the time, she says,
"they've seen their loved ones ...
go through a lot of pain, so when


--- Page 35 ---

they can come in and see them
lqoking peaceful, that's .a last
image they're going to have in
their head." When preparing the
body for burial, she says, "We
take a lot of time when we're
doing our job as embalmers and
cosmeticians: getting their hair
right, making sure that every-
thing is neat and orderly."

Though the students in 1824
robbed a West Haven cemetery
instead of the more conveniently-
located cemetery across the
street, it seems fitting that the
medical school · and the Grove
Street Cemetery now stand at
oppos.ite ends of Yale's campus.
Dissection has shaken off most
J
<
of its stigma~ so much so that
those who- give their / bodies
to science are .lauded Ior their
• . f'.
;
,
contribution~ - ' / ... ., - ~
~
.t'"
l
~·
#
_;
'
At the encl;. of:_ 6ach year, the
:~ f,
;:---
.
Yale anatomy -students prepare a
remembrance for their -donors.
In the Medical Historical Library,
nestled amidst the collected
knowledge of generations of
doctors before them, they read
poetry, perform music, and pres-
ent photo exhibitions in the
donor's honor. But when the
donors leav~ the medical school,
they are not put back together. -
They are not given a funeral
service, their family members are
not afforded one last gaze, and
they are not buried. Instead, they
are cremated and their ashes
placed with those of other
donors. Though the practice of
anatomy has come a long way,
the destination of those who give
their bodies to medicine is still a
far cry from what most prefer to
imagine as our final resting place.
It!J Wang is a Senior in Ezra Stiles
College. She is on the staff of TN].
November 2005


**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 38-39**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
I 
Q) 
r:. 
E 
0 ... -
"0 
Q) -·-
0 
·vale 
HIGH·SCHOOL 
Horace Mann School 
Philips Academy (Andover) 
Philips Academy (Exeter) 
Saint Pauls School 
. 
Stuyvesant High School 
Choate Rosemary Hall 
STATE 
Alabama 
Louisiana 
Delaware 
Maine 
Mississippi 
Ore.gon 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
NUMBER OF MATRICULATED STUDENTS 
o~----------------------~-----------------------------------------
5 oine institutions even send more students to Yale than entire states. 
"I'm not an admissions officer. I'm 
fall of 2005. 
just a student." 
His eyes widened with despair, 
and, in his oversized glasses, I saw a 
reflection of my high school self-
eager to please, overachieving, and 
desperate to get into a good school. I 
hesitated, then . took the ream of 
forms from his outstretched arms. 
"Let's take a look at this together." 
A YEAR AGO, I PARTICIPATED IN A 
Yale program that encouraged stu-
dents to return to their high schools 
and give "Thanksgiving Information 
Sessions" 
brief visits intended to 
publicize the University, solicit stu-
dents to apply, and build relationships 
with schools in geographic regions 
rarely visited by official recruitment 
officers. Unbeknownst to its partici-
pants at the tirne, the project was an 
unofficial prototype for a large-scale 
proposal that would be realized in the 
38 
This new initiative, the Student 
Ambassadors Program, is a collabora-
tion between the Yale College Council 
and the University's admissions office. 
Steven Syverud, President of the 
YCC, began campaigning for the proj-
ect shortly after he assumed office. 
''We wrote a resolution to improve 
admissions tactics in January," he said, 
"because many of us were strongly 
interested in low income recruitment. 
All semester, I went to the admissions 
office every week, asking, ~e we 
going to do this program?' 
Jeremiah Quinlan, a Yale adrnis-
sions officer, was adamantly in favor 
of the idea from its inception. "The 
Yale adrnissions office is always trying 
to improve our recruiting efforts as 
we continue to strive to bring a diverse 
freshman class to this campus," he 
said. In seeking to broaden these 
efforts, the program's architects sent 
• • 
out an open application call this 
September, via e-mail, for "ambassa-
dors." The tone of the first e-mail 
appealed to the student body's devo-
tion to the University 
a sort of "for, 
God, for Country, and for Yale" pitch. 
''We hope this program will become a 
Yale tradition," it read, a tradition in 
which students would "be paid $50 
for their first visit and $20 for each 
visit after that." 
While Yale will not release the 
official number of student ambassa-
dors until after Thanksgiving Break, 
when their visits have been clocked 
in, Syverud hinted that the figures 
were impressive. "The original plan 
was to send fifty students out; but 
we underestimated the interest that 
the idea would elicit 
about three 
hundred students' applied." Accepted 
ambassadors were then trained 
to 
·-
a greater degree than I wa~ and 
given an overview of the purposepf 
their visits. 
_ 
-
The schools targeted by the initia-
tive were chosen according to guide-
lines devised by the admissions office 
and the YCC. First, the program's cre-
ators asked: How many students at the 
school is question are scoring 1300 or 
higher on their SATs? Then, are 
enough of those students applying to 
Yale? The third consideration, noted 
Syverud, was the average income level 
of the students. Though, he adrnitted, 
the system is "sort of an inexact sci-
ence," he affirmed that "if two 
. schools had evenly matched test 
scores, we went to the lower income." 


While the goals of the program-
increasing low-income recruitment 
and broadening geographic distribu-
tion 
may seem unsnt pris~g in the 
contemporary 
·context 
of 
the 
University's liberal atmosphere, Yale's 
drive to realize them is a fairly recent 
development. Syverud, who is writing 
his senior essay on the subject, points 
to the Yale of forty years ago. '1:n 
terms of adrnissions," he said, ''Yale 
was the tnost conservative of the Ivy 
Leagues. We used to send the entire


office to prep schools like Andover 
and Exeter for weeks at a· tirne, with 
entire rating systems devoted to those 
institutions." . He paused, then added 
with a tone of hushed adrniration: ''All 
that changed with Inslee Clark." 
Clark, who became the director of 
adnlissions at Yale in 1965, essentially 
blew down the doors to the old boys' 
club of college adrtlissions. Working 
with the University's liberal president, 
Kingman Brewster, he argued that 
Yale should seek out the most quali-
fied candidates from around the coun-
try rather than focusing on elite prep 
schools _populated by students with 
appropriate social upbringings. 
· Clark's initiatives, recounted 
Syverud, ~aused an uproar. Furious 
Yale alumhi ~ppealed to Brewster and 
the Yale Corporatiqn . to revoke its 
new liberal ... poli?_es. 'J)leir argument, 
they felt, wis"simpfe· :The new, diverse 
,. 
r 
~ 
_. .; 
-· / 
class of studerit-s-~ladred the. necessary 
r~~ 
, 
background to become solid leaders. 
In response, Clark avowed that the 
leaders of the future would emerge 
from untraditional sectors of society. 
Brewster agreed. As an undergraduate 
in the late 1930's, he once wrote in the 
Yale Daify News, ''The world we shall 
live and work in is being refashioned. 
or 
Parts of the Yale machinery that are 
· rusty with complacency and stiff with 
tradition will have to be hauled out 
and re-exan1ined." 
As President, 
Brewster's position enabled hin1 to 
implement these lofty ideals by revo-
lutionizing the University's recruit-
ment policy. 

Decades later, however, the per-
centage of private school . students at 
November 2005 
Yale remains a point of contention. In · 
an e-mail urging students to apply for 
the Student Ambassadors program, a 
representative 
from 
Asian 
American Students Association stated, 
''Anyone who cares at all about Yale 
branching out beyond its feeder prep 
schools needs to pay attention. Even if 
you went to a feeder prep school." 
While the fmancial, ethnic, and geo-
graphic spread of Yale students-
Quinlan pointed out that the student 
body now "consists of students from 
all 50 states in addition to 7 4 countries 
outside of the United States" 
has 
grown remarkably, the ratio between 
students from public and private 
schools is still unbalanced. Currendy, 
just over half of the student body 
comes from the public school system, 
a percentage that hardly reflects the 
national makeup; according to the 
1990 census, 88 per cent of American 
youths were enrolled in public school. 
Some private institutions even send 
more students to Yale than entire 
states 
Harvard-Wesdake, a private 
school in California, sent twelve stu-
dents to Yale in 2003, as opposed to 
eight from the entire state of Indiana. 
Quinlan argued, however, that this fig-
ure is no longer a consequence of 
• zn 
er on 
ezr 
recrUitment policy, but ipstead reflects 
the nmnber of applications. 
"One of the larger factors in deter-
rnining territories is actually the mun-
ber of applications that an area will 
produce 
each 
year," 
he 
said. 
''Adn»issions officers are not only 
responsible for traveling to their terri-
tories, but also for reading all of the 
applications from those areas. Once 
an officer receives their territory, they 
are able to use a variety of research 
tools, past advice, and statistics to 
determine what schools or cities to 
visit in their territory." As a result, 
some officers have to stretch visits 
across broad geographic regions in 
order to sift through as many applica-
tions as a coworker assigned . to a 
handful of private institutions. · 
Baolu Lan, a senior who attended 
the prestigious PhiJiips Academy in 
Andover, Massachusetts, adds that the 
inflated · nun1ber of students from 
institutions like Andover may simply 
reflect the nature of the schools 
themselves. "I think that the high cal-
iber and wide-ranging diversity of the 
best students from these extremely 
selective boarding schools justify the 
proportion of them," she said. 
''Andover selects students from all 
around the country who are at the top 
of their classes and show exceptional 
promise at an early age: Yale is essen-
tially admitting kids from a pre-
screened applicant pool." 
Lan 
affirmed that the relation is correla-
tive, not causal. 

Still, there in an undeniable dispar-
ity between how far Yale goes to 
establish a presence for itself at differ-
ues -zon are scor-
ent schools. c'In addition to Yale's 
annual visit to our school, I'm pretty 
sure that there was other cornmnnica-
tion," said junior Katie Kadue, an 
alnrnna of Hat vard-Wesdake. <The 
guidance counselors were evasive 
about how close their ties were with 
colleges, but they all ~ad experience 
on the other side of the admission 
process, and they seemed to have cspe-
39 



**Yale's New Financial Aid and Recruitment Initiatives**
**Author: Mina Kimes**
**Page number(s): 40-41**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
cial relationships' with college admis-
sions officers, which usually meant 
they. had insider information." Jack 
Facemyer, also a junior, attended a 
low-income public high school in 
Pinelands, New Jersey. "No Yale 
admissions officers ever c~me to my 
high school," he said, "and there were 
never any information ses~ions. My 
only contact with yale was iny inter-
view with an 3lumnus in tq.e area and 
. . 
'' 
my Vlslt to campus. 
. 
the direct reach of Yale Admissions. 
Lan 
· recalled, 
"Our 
College 
Counseling Office was a full-fledged 
and extremely professional operation, 
with its own offices, interview rooms, 
and extensive counseling resource 
library." As a high school junior, she 
and 
her 
classmates 
were 
each 
"assigned an advisor who conununi-
cated with us closely throughout the 
next twelve months, wrote us recom-
mendations, collaborated with our 
( 
ezr 
a nee counse ors 
zsszons 
'' • 
For students in areas that are 
scantily populated by Yale alumni, a 
visit from a Student Ambassador may 
be their first contact with the 
University 
a weighty role for an 
undergraduate to play. On my own 
return to my high school, I arrived 
expecting a figurative victory lap but 
left feelirig as though I'd been dragged 
down the bleachers: Although undeni-
ably bright-eyed, the students I spoke 
to needed more help than I could pro-
vide. When faced with an application 
process in which a single adtuissions 
officer seems to be the judge, jury, and 
executioner, an 18 year-old is desper-
ate for someone 
anyone 
to be' his 
or her college counselor, SAT tutor, 
and essay editor. 
Evidendy, the greatest discrepancy 
between Kadue and Facemyer's expe-
riences isn't actually caused by their 
interactions with the University before 
matriculation, but rather the stark dis-
parity between their respective high 
schools 
an inequa1ity that lies out of 
40 
veru 
professors when possible, and did his 
or her best to make our application 
the best that it could be. [There was] a 
dedicated team of advisors who were 
conversant with the American college 
admissions climate and understood 
the process from an insider's perspec-
tive." Facemyer paints a different pic-
ture of the application process. 
"There were four guidance counselors 
for my school, which has a little over 
one thousand students. One student 
applied to Yale 
myself and one girl 
went to U Penn. No one else even 
applied to Ivy League schools that 
year, and I was the only person from 
my school ever to go to Yale." 
His assessment points to the larg-
er problem at hand; in a world 
where class often determines access 
to such tools as college counselors 
and SAT preparation courses, stu-
dents from lower incomes often 
lack the necessary means to com-
pete in the admissions process. 
Syverud noted that "admissions pol-
icy says that background is impor-
tant, but it's be~n proven that there's 
no admissions advantage for stu-
dents ftom lower iricome back-
grounds. We need to target these 
applicants, but it's difficult .because 
we use need-blind admittance." 
The question of how Yale 
can compensate for this deficit 
or if 
it is the . University's job to do so at 
all 
is a motivating force behind the 
Student 
Ambassador 
program. 
eserve a 
rest 
According to Syverud, the project is 
"a way to recognize that students who 
aren't from prep and feeder schools 
don't receive the same sort of help. 
Their guidance counselors aren't call-
ing Yale Admissions to brag about 
them. They deserve a leg up." . 
The mechanism they hope will 
enact this "leg up" is not a change in 
the adnrission process, but rather an 
increased attention to disserninating 
information about Yale into the hands 
of a broader audience. The Student 
Ambassadors 
sent 
out 
over 
Thanksgiving Break will be urged to 
spread . a specific conununique to the 
masses: Yale has a lot of money, and it 
wants to gt.ve 1t to you. 
"[We] created the Ambassadors 
Progra•n to send a message that high-
er education is an affordable option 
for all high school students, no tnatter 
their income levels," said Quinlan, 
who called the initiative an outgrowth 
of the University's recent financia1 aid 
developments. '~inancial aid policy,


---

**Yale's New Financial Aid and Recruitment Initiatives (Continued)**
**Page number(s): 41**

especially a hundred per cent need-
based financial aid and our new 
enhancements for low-income stu-
dents and families, is definitely some-
thing we want to talk about and 
explain as we recruit." 
The new 
enhancements that Quinlan alludes to 
are part of recent sweeping changes in 
Yale's financial aid offerings. Last 
spring, 
members 
of 
the 
Undergraduate 
Organizing 
Committee staged a campaign for 
such changes that culminated in 
February with a sit-in .at the Office of 
Undergraduate Adrnissions. Although 
many of the protesters are still push-
ing for more reform, the new policy is 
indisputably far-reaching. In March, 
the Universfty._announced that, as of 
this year, if would no longer require 
any financiar contributio_.Q.-from 'fami-
" 
lies with total incJt1ffies under $45,000 
' 
a year, as wei]}: as ~ pr~viOing generous 
v 
packages to th9~fe~ -ning less than 
$60,000. The website for the admis-
sions office now boasts, "The 2005-
2006 academic year marks an impor-
tant milestone year for Yale's under-
graduate financial aid program." 
For Syverud, these changes are not 
a conclusion to the battle for closing 
the education gap, but rather a means 
to an end. "I firmly believe that a 
discussion of financial aid at Yale 
should also deal with the issue of high 
school recruittnent, because the two 
are related," he said. ''I'd like Yale to 
be at the forefront of reaching out to 
lower income students. I think that, 
coupled with Yale's new financial aid 
policy, this program will potentially set 
off changes in other Ivy League 
schools. I bet Harvard will make large 
scale changes to its own policies, and 
I'd be surprised if they don't also 
il nplement a more comprehensive 
recruitment program." 
In addition to emphasizing Yale's 
commitment to pursuing students 
from low income backgrounds, the 
joint force of the YCC and the adnus-
sions office is also working to support 
applicants from under-represented
November 2005 
schools by building relationships with 
those schools. One of its aspirations is 
to implement a program in which 
incoming students would nominate 
teachers from their high schools for 
recognition. 
SyVerud 
added, "We're also trying to b~d out-
reach to guidance counselors, who 
have better opportunities to interact 
with the students. We want them to 
know how important this is to Yale." 
Critics of the adrnissions office 
might ask how important low-income 
recruitment actually is to Yale. Why, 
for example, is the University sending 
undergraduate students to previously 
unrecognized schools instead of 
divesting admissions officers from sat-
urated areas? 
Syverud and Quinlan 
are quick to point out that the adnlis-
sions staff is already spread thin 
across the country, reading nearly 
twenty thousand applications for the 
Class of 2009, and both cite the 
advantages 
that 
a 
Ambassador brings to the table. 
Lauren Ezell, 
a Student 
Ambassador who has been assigned 
to speak at a public magnet high 
school in Tennessee, agreed. ''A stu-
dent's perspective is perhaps more 
candid," 
she said. "The students 
selected for the job are probably as 
qualified to 'sell' the school as an 
adrnissions officer." Syverud added to 
this statement, "I think it's more effec-
tive to hear someone from yoW: ~ea 
with a similar experience to yourself. 
Students are also often more straight-
forward, because they lack the sort of 
mandatory 'company 
loyalty' of 
admissions officers, who are ultitnate-
ly Yale employees." 
Whether students wil1 be sold by 
recruiters who may be 'only two or 
three years their seruor is yet to be 
detern •ined. In December, the YCC 
and the Yale adnlissions office will 
assess the success of the progran1, 
after the Ambassadors return to Yale 
with questions, anecdotes, and lists of 
interested students. While an evalua-
tion of these student experiences, and 
. the responses of the schools selected 
for the program are detertninants of 
the program's success, Syverud sug-
gested that the overa~ching goals of 
the project are larger in scale. 
"There are two clashing principles 
at play here, and Yale needs to decide 
which one it wants to subscribe to," he 
said. "The first is that we can use this 
program to find the diamonds in_ the 
rough 
spectacular applicants who 
will come, be accepted, and perform 
excellendy. The other goal is to 
change 
admissions 
process 
beyond Yale. To pursue that will be 
difficult, because Yale ultimately 
works to benefit Yale." 
Syverud hopes to continue to 
address the inequalities that students 
from different backgrounds face in 
the application process, including 
holding a conference where primary 
figures in higher education discuss the 
matter. He concluded, optimistically, 
"I think that people care a lot about 
the issue·, because education is sup-
posed to be a mecharusm for social 
mobility. It's Yale's job to ensure that 
we match that promise." 
The extent to which this promise 
can be realized by a group of fresh-
faced undergraduates eager to spread 
the Yale gospel remains to be seen. In 
my own experience, it was worth tak-
ing the tirne to speak 
albeit in a 
nervous and ill-prepared manner 
to 
a group of students who might not 
otherwise be exposed to Yale. I 
walked away from my session with a 
-belief in the importance· of expanding 
recruittnent, and a renewed apprecia-
tion for the help that I received when 
applying to college. Several months 
later, the boy in the suit and the over-
sized glasses wrote me to say that he 
was walking away from our high 
school with letters of acceptance to 
Hat vard and Yale. 
Mina Kimes, a junior in Dave11_/>0rt College, is 
Production Manager of TNJ. 
41 



**The Unofficial New York Yale Cabaret: A Times Square Tradition**
**Author: Summer Ban**
**Page number(s): 42**

• • 
e1r 
r1 
s recreate t 
• rrnes 
uare. 
ostumes that appear to have 
been ftlched from a Medieval 
Times theme restaurant are 
carefully laid out behind a 
postage stamp-sized stage. The audience 
waits patiendy, toying with napkins and 
waiting for dinner to arrive, as the min-
utes tick away. 
Finally the house n1anager takes the 
stage to introduce the evening's entertain-
ment. He greets the audience informa11y 
and then offers the usual admonition to 
silence all cell phones: ''The actors will kill 
you if you don't turn them off." . 
After realizing that a few of the front 
row patrons seem to have slipped in 
without receiving programs, the director 
emerges from the woodwork (literally) 
and rushes around trying to fmd extras. 
Finally he leaps at an unsuspecting 
blonde seated stage left. "Did you read 
that already?" he anxiously asks the 
woman, reaching to pluck the program 
from her hands like a golden egg from a 
goose. Luckily, a stack of unclairned pro-
grams diverts his attention, and the play-
bill remains in the flustered blonde's 
gnp. 
And all of this is pre-show! 
This blend of chaos, spirit, and itnagi-
native theater lives on top of a Bennigan's, 
creating a highly unusual blend of bar 
snacks and sixteenth century history class 
in the core of the Big Apple. This is not 
just any Bennigan's. It is the one on the 
corner of Forty Seventh Street and Eighth 
Avenue 
Titnes Square, Manhattan, cen-
ter of American conunercial theater, 
home of Wicked, Hairsprt!J and Monty 
42 
Python's Spamalot. 
How did this deliberately low-budget 
theater end up in such glitzy company? 
The answer lies closer to York Square 
than Times Square. The endeavor is 
modeled after the original Yale Cabaret, 
a theater located on Park Street that 
stages bare-bones shows· after only a 
week of rehearsals .as a release from the 
tensions of rigorous drama school train-
ing. The resulting delightful romp 
through groundling theater is the pas-
sion of a morley group of Yale School of 
Drama graduate~ who . call themselves 
the Unofficial New York Yale Cabaret 
(UNYYC) 
pronounced with purpose 
as "unique." 
The creators of Yale Cabaret's new 
incarnation wanted to retain the theatri-
cal immediacy, creativity, and relaxed 
form of the original while freeing it 
from academia's influence. The anxieties 
of drama school have been replaced by 
the pressure of real life in Manhattan, 
prompting a redux of an old school tra-
dition to alleviate stress. 
The driving force behind these 
cabaret works is a deep reservoir of gut-
wrenching desire to create without criti-
cism, to make art for art's sake and not 
for the conunercial success that reigns 
over the rest of Broadway. 
But as anyone who has sat through 
an open-mic night knows, no amount 
· of heart can turn your next-door 
neighbor into a pop diva. If these 
UNYYC cohorts aren't looking for the 
acclaim craved by many theatrical 
artists (TONY TONY TONY) then 
•• 
what exactly are they creating? 
The company's inaugural production, 
Most Happy, was written and directed by 
UNYYC artistic director George· Tynan 
Crowley, who graduated from Yale School 
of Drama in 1990. It's a blithely simple 
one-act play exploring the complicated life 
__ , 
of Anne Boleyn. The o'l:--ea~ess actors 
energy and passion show in their ~mphat· 
ic diction and excited staging . .f\mbitious 
lines such as ''Art springs from truth," and 
''You're a poet, you're invested in delu· 
sion" aside, the play is engaging and light, 
while subdy educational. 
The actors' complex, detailed emotions 
are painted in broad, obvious strokes, 
favoring heightened drama over more 
accessible, believable naturalism. Popular 
opinion be damned! The point of this 
production is to portray the world from its 
creators' viewpoint. What they lack in 
slick showmanship, they compensate for 
in pure devotion to the theater. 
Dana Watkins, a non-Yale affiliated 
long-time New York actor who plays 
Anne's love interest, Sir Thomas Wyatt, 
twitched about the corners of his mouth 
when asked about the process of working 
with 
C. ''Everyone involved in this 
-
,, 
has got a tremendous amount of heart, 
he said, "which tnakes up for a lot." 
UNNYC board member Mahayana 
Landowne DRA '98, graduated from 
Yale and moved to Manhattan to begin 
her career as a freelance director. She 
was nai.ve to the cold reality of living as 
a professional artist, and quickly grew 
frustrated with the need to constandy 
market herself in order to obtain more



**Title: UNYYC: A Yale Theater Group in New York**
**Author: Summer Banks**
**Page number(s): 43**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
jobs while trying to complete her current 
one. In order to focus once more on the 
creation of pure theater, Landowne 
decided to recreate the cabaret of her 
college years. 


She described the cabaret as "a place 
where it's more about hope and craft-
ing," a haven designed to restore the 
love of theater often tainted after gradu-
anon. 


"It's more about creating the work;' 
she explained: UNNYC does not bow to 
the pressure to produce a hit regardless 
of its artistic quality, a pressure prevalent 
in the professional theater world. 


Searching for a soft place to fall in the 
jagged landscape of the New York the-
ater scene, UNYYC has recreated a tiny 
bit of the Yale bubble in the modest the-
atrical space above Bennigan's. Far from 
being limited to artists, the nostalgic 
longing for what was once in college-
"the best years of our lives" is a uni-
versal sentiment. College holds the last 
vestiges of childhood; it's an incubator 
in which most Yale students can still 
enjoy limited responsibilities and total 
creative freedom without concern for 
when the next paycheck is coming or 
where they will sleep that night. 


The thought of leaving the warmth 
and comfort of the incubator is daunt-
ing, diploma in hand, forced to take on 
the world, ready or not. Some members 
of UNNYC have found the struggle to 
be far worse than it is for their I-banking 
colleagues. Competition is fierce, and 
although friends are still likely to cast 
friends (the Yale "mafia" does exist in 
New York), prospective collaborators no 
longer see each other in the dining halls 
or on the lawn, making connections hard 
to maintain and jobs harder to find. 


Economic need often outweighs the 
desire to create artistically meaningful 
work, a problem rarely encountered in 
the relatively free environment of drama 
school. The pressure to achieve immediate 
post-graduate success leads many 
actors to emphasize their best attribute 
and become typecast for a certain kind 
of role. "A lot of people are seen as only 
doing one kind of work," Landowne 
laments, brushing her hair away from her 
eyes, which are hidden behind a pair of 
black-rimmed glasses. Seven years out of 
drama school, she has found life on the 
outside to be fraught with the pitfalls of 
managing a career and living on a tight 
budget. Leaving the college bubble 
means that making theater will become a 
different process, but how exactly does it 
change? In the immortal words of Deep 
Throat: "Follow the money." 


College productions are usually fund-
ed by the school, which is in turn fund-
ed by tuition, donations and grants. The 
show does not have to be a hit. This 
gives crazy college kids the chance to be 
as experimental and self-indulgent as 
they want. Actors try their hand at 
directing while set designers become 
lead singers, all to the comforting 
applause of their friends in the audience. 
The university is a creative haven where, 
in the words of Crowley's Sir Thomas 
Wyatt, students can "write (create, act, 
sing) because they see things the way 
they are," not simply to entertain a pay-
ing audience. 


In the real world, however, theatrical 
productions have to earn money through 
ticket sales, or face bankruptcy. 
Constantly watching checkbooks, public 
opinion polls and Playbill grosses, pro-
ducers pressure their creative teams to 
shape their work into what they believe 
will make them the most money. Even 
regional and off-Broadway theaters, run 
as non-profit companies without the 
responsibilities to shareholders that 
commercial productions have, must still 
sell tickets and receive grants to survive. 
They, too, remain bound to the public's 
fickle opinion. 


So what does this all mean for 
UNYYC? 


A tiny theater above a bar, where 
actors will be applauded for their 
efforts while the audience politely 
ignores the waiter caught in the spot-
light, will probably not be too commer-
cially successful. However, if the 
UNYYC members can attract their fel-
low graduates who also yearn for a 
return to their bright college years, they 
can succeed in creating "a place where 
the audience is also a place for Yale 
people to meet," as Landowne hopes. 


By bringing together former class-
mates, new recruits, and an array of 
actors seeking artistic freedom and inno-
vation into an extended version of the 
Yale bubble, UNYYC may yield a suc-
cess more valuable than a Broadway hit. 
Summer Banks is a Sophomore in Ezra Stiles 
College. 


**Title:  The Beinecke Basement**
**Author: Emi Kopfly**
**Page number(s): 44-45**

stare at the hundreds of early 
editions of Leaves of Grass. 


Green spines and brown 
spines, all with gold-lettered 
titles rendered in plant-like 
tendrils, crowd the shelves for yards. I 
pull down one volume that includes 
Song of Myself, and find my favorite pas-
sage, section six: "A child said What is 
the grass? fetching it to me with full 
hands ..." Quietly at first, I begin to read 
aloud. Soon self-conscious, I pause to 
see if anyone is near enough to hear 
me. No one is; I am alone. I read more 
confidently through the 
end of the section. 


"And to die is different 
from what any one sup-
posed, and luckier." 


Since the fall of my 
freshman year, I have 
worked at Beinecke, 
the library that houses 
the most rare and valu-
able items in the Yale 
Collection. My job is to 
help Pat Willis and 
Nancy Kuhl curate exhibits for the 
Yale Collection 
of 
American 
Literature (YCAL). Curating means 
culling materials from the YCAL 
archives, which dwell in the basement, 
and crafting a narrative to tie those 
materials together. In the basement, 
however, there is no narrative: a frag-
ment of papyrus lies on a shelf not far 
from a fifteenth-century bible, and a 
box of nails from Thoreau's cabin is 
not much farther. Everything sits near 
others of their kind, yet the basement 
gives me the sense that the records of 
all mankind lie within a ten-foot radius 
of wherever I stand. 


Only Beinecke employees have 
access to this subterranean floor, which 
is reached by the elevator behind the 
Public Services desk on the concourse 
level. Since the library's ferocious secu-
rity policy mandates that not even an 
employee may take a floor plan of the 
archives outside the building, the base-
ment must be described instead of 
shown. Emerging from the elevator 
into one of four large chambers that 
take up most of underground Beinecke 
Plaza, nearly all I can see is white: white 
linoleum floors, white cement-block 
walls, the occasional white table stacked 
with white call slips. Most prominent 
are the sides of white shelves pressed 
together to form makeshift walls. White 
double-faced bookshelves pack togeth-
er on a floor track, shelves knocking 
against flanking shelves. Extra space lies 
between the end of a unit and the wall 
or a permanent pillar. To access a par-
ticular shelf, I rotate the handle at its 
end to roll it apart from its neighbors, 
creating just enough space for me and a 
box to slip by. Each chamber has sever-
al rows of units. To reinforce the steril-
ity of the interior design scheme, neon 
tube-bulbs on the ceiling provide cold, 
honest light. 


One of the chambers contains 
mostly books, while the other three 
contain everything that isn't a book: 
manuscripts, letters, maps, periodicals; 
photographs, microfilm reels, broad-
sides, papyri, music 
and lots of uncut sheets 
of playing 
cards. Other than 
grey boxes or, if the 
material is 
recently 
acquired, plain card-
board ones. Throughout 
the basement, amidst 
the white of the rooms 
and the grey 
and 
brown of the boxes, huge red fire 
extinguishers offer hints of color that 
seem less a relief than a slight threat. 
Also red are the little wall-mounted 
maintenance units that keep the 
atmosphere at 
seventy 
degrees 
Fahrenheit and fifty percent humidity. 
In the event of a fire, these units 
would emit halon gas, which depletes 
the oxygen supply just enough so that 
fire can't breathe but people still can. 


Off of the four main chambers stem 
a few small maintenance rooms. My 
favorite is the thirty-degrees below zero 
"Blast Freezer," to which all new acqui-
sitions are sent to be rid of worms, bac-
teria, and lice. 


I often get lost. After three years on 
the job, I can still be found wandering 
among boxes of playbills when I'm 
searching for a lantern slide; I scan 
Chinese book titles when what I want is 
a first edition of Moby Dick. Sometimes I 
am merely not where I am supposed to 
be. I might poke among the shelves of 
objects, greeting again the familiar bust 
of Thornton Wilder, the enormous 
African drum, the wooden marionettes, 
and the inexplicable collection of long-
necked ceramic cats. Sometimes I 
explore the books or boxes near the one 
I'm seeking—yesterday I was looking for 
a Tennyson manuscript and discovered a 
box marked "Alexander Pope Collection, 
Box 1 of 1." What choice had I but to 
pause and read a Pope letter kindly 
requesting that a fashionable lady pay up 
her debt? 


I am typically alone in the basement. 
Most employees descend only briefly, to 
secure a particular item for someone in 
the reading room. With no impatient 
scholar awaiting my ascent, I allow 
myself to linger. I feel anxious if another 
employee spots me delinquently 
unfolding a vest of Gertrude Stein's 
rather than dutifully replacing boxes with 
call slips. If I interact with another 
employee, our exchanges are short and 
awkward. "Excuse me" is the most fre-
quently uttered phrase, since I must nav-
igate around others with the wooden 
YCAL cart on which I place the loot I 
have pulled for an exhibition. 


Solitude allows me the rare chance to 
be entirely with my thoughts. In the whole 
world, I am the only one at this moment surrounded 
by papers written in Eugene O'Neill's 
cramped hand. Or, nobody knows I am hold-
ing and reading a letter from Melville to 
Hawthorne. Or even the obsessively liter-
al, I, 
Kopfly, am clutching a wooden 
tablet from the fourth century. I cannot read it. 
It is in Greek. No one knows these things. 


Occasionally, proprietary excitement 
yields to profound spiritual reaction. 
Sophomore year, I worked on an exhi-
bition of letters written by American 
writers. While crouched on the basement 
floor, poking around a low shelf of 
loosely organized YCAL boxes, I found 
a folder marked "Dickinson." I had 
searched the online database for "Emily 
Dickinson" and not found helpful 
results, so this folder startled me. 


Dickinson has long been a favorite writer 
of mine—one of those worshipped 
ones whose past physical existence 
seems somehow doubtful. I had hardly 
opened the box when four small, weight-
less sheets drifted onto my lap. I stared 
down at the slanted, widely spaced letter-
ing in faded pencil on grayish paper, dis-
cerning words with difficulty: 


(To the faithful 
Absence is condensed Presence. 
To others—
But there are no others.


I got chills. I felt heady. For the first time 
I worried that no one else was around—
what if I fainted? I did not. And since 
this poem was part of a letter, I included 
it in the exhibition. I forgot the call num-
ber, and now when I search "Emily 
Dickinson" on the database, I still can't 
find the letter. 


Sometimes I wonder about my easy 
access to all this material. What entitles 
me to read Zelda Fitzgerald's letters, with 
their sad evidence of her mental unravel-
ing? Why should I be allowed to sift 
through Annie Dillard's college note-
books, especially when she is still alive? 
What would Freud think of my analyz-
ing the epistolary psychoanalysis he sent 
to H.D.? I have not the justification of 
being an academic researcher, but then, 
is even this a justification? Actually, it is: 
these archives, and the exhibitions they 
feed into, deepen our understanding of 
history and art. Nevertheless, there is 
something a bit creepy and voyeuristic 
about my basement ventures. I must 
remind myself that most of the collec-
tions were given to the Beinecke with the 
artists' or their family's consent. Annie 
Dillard knows that scholars might be 
reading her college doodles and lists of 
crushes. She put them here. 


Outside the library, I often feel like a 
one-woman PR firm for Beinecke, urg-
ing my friends to attend the library-spon-
sored poetry readings, visit the exhibi-
tions, and request archives from the 
reading room. But what is most thrill-
ing to me about the Beinecke—the base-
ment—cannot be shared. I walk through 
the basement back to the elevator, hav-
ing fetched with full hands several acid-
free boxes. The condensed presence of 
hundreds of poets hovers in the air. 
Emi Kopfly, a senior in Branford College, is 
on the staff of TNJ.



**The Yale Sustainable Food Project**
**Author: Jonny Dach**
**Page number(s): 46**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"The Bourbon Reds, like the Black Spanish, Blue Slate, and Royal Palm, are heritage breeds ... they are small birds, with a juicy texture and rich, complex flavors." 
-YSFB "Turkeys"
The Yale Sustainable Food Project, a new branch of Yale dining services, believes in good food, food that nourishes the finest minds of New England. From the fabled Berkeley test ovens to the sprawling basement kitchens of Commons, YSFP fertilizes a community in which the delectable pleasures of growing, cooking, and eating food are woven into the undergraduate experience at Yale. Bewitching, 27 year-old Associate Director Melina Shannon-DiPietro wants to beat the whites of Yale students' eating habits to a frothy peak with "a new approach to food: one where food is both sustenance, pleasure, and the ethics of the day." YSFP's applauded grass-fed burgers, lamb-and-feta patties, butternut squash pizzas, and seasonal heirloom tomato salads are her way of doing just that.


If the ubiquitous table tents were a squishy lamb-and-feta patty, Melina would be lamb, the main ingredient. She crafts their copy, plucking words from the soil of her wit with the same intensity she turns against the garden's hardy radicchio crop. Gordon Jenkins would be the feta, the piquant curd that kicks things up. A dash of flavor thrown in to zest up the table tents, Gordon admits he has "condoned, and in many cases exaggerated the whimsy," though he protests that his wordplay "comes from a desire to keep food and environmental literature fun." Joshua Viertel, YSFP's other director, and Lucas Dreier '04, a full-time farmhand, stand in as taste testers, editing the table tents' text to ensure their ingredients have been well blended but not over-stirred. Finally, the perfected concoction must be laid out and grilled by Thames Printing Inc., whose head-of-press once telephoned Melina to profess his enthusiasm for printing on recycled paper.

Taking several days and many high-quality ingredients to prepare, the table tents are a rare organic delight. While they can be frozen and shipped—they have been found as far afield as Beatrice, Nebraska, Berkeley, California, and New York City, where Columbia University has filched entire excerpts for its cafeterias—they are typically served in Yale's own 14 dining halls. There, common as collard greens, they replace the backs of cereal boxes for thousands of homesick college students. Unfazed by the vicissitudes of the seasons that regulate the food they describe, the table tents provide reliable solace, day in and day out. For those who can't make it through the gates of Berkeley College to enjoy Melina's exquisite YSFP treats, the tents are an everpresent alternative. However inedible.
-Jonny Dach
YALE SUSTAINABLE FOOD PROJECT
Printed with soy ink on 100% recycled paper.


**Recording the Holocaust: Steven Spielberg's Shoah Foundation to preserve a vital history**
**Author: [Author not specified]**
**Page number(s): 48**

Recording the Holocaust: 
Steven Spielberg's Shoah Foundation to preserve 
a vital history

