Publication date: September 2004
Volume: 37
Issue number: 1


**MASTHEAD:**
- **PUBLISHER:** Michael Addison
- **EDITOR-IN-CHIEF:** Paige Austin
- **MANAGING EDITORS:** Sarah Laskow, Flora Lichtman
- **DESIGNER:** Miao W'llng
- **BusiNEss MANAGER:** Brian W'llyda
- **PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR:** Eve Fairbanks
- **PRODUCTION MANAGER:** Adriane Quinlan
- **RESEARCH DIRECTOR:** Romy Drucker
- **CIRCULATION AND SuBsCRIPTIONs MANAGERS:** Ann Lane Rick, David Zax
- **WEB EDITOR:** Concha Mendoza
- **Mmzbm and Dirtctors:** Emily Bazelon • Joshua Civin • Peter B. Cooper • Tom Griggs • Brooks Kelley • Danid Kurn-Phdan • Jennifer Pins • Henry Schwab • Elizabeth Sledge • David Slifka • Fred Strebeigb • Thomas Strong • John Swansburg
- **Advisors:** Richard Blow • Jay Carney • Richard Conniff • Ruth Conniff • Elisha Cooper • Julia Preston • Lauren Rabin • Steven Weisman • Daniel Yergin
- **Frimds:** Steve Ballou • Anson M. Beard, Jr. • Blaire Bennett • Edward B. Bennett, Jr. • Edward B. Bennett III • Paul S. Bennett • Richard Blow • Martha Brant • Jay Carney • Daphne Chu • Josh Civin • Jonathan M. Clark • Consrance Clement • Elisha Cooper • Peter B. Cooper • Andy Coun • Masi Denison • Albert]. Fox • Mrs. Howard Fox • David Freeman • Geoffrey Fried • Sherwin Goldman • David Greenberg • Tom Griggs • Stephen Hellman • Jane Kamensky • Brooks Kelley • Roger Kirwood • Lewis E. Lehrman • Jim Lowe • E. Nobles Lowe • Martha E. Neil • Peter Neill • Howard H. Newman • Sean O'Brien • Julie Peters • Lewis and Joan Platt • Josh Plaut • Julia Preston • Lauren Rabin • Fairfax C. Randal • Stuart Rohrer Arleen and Arthur Sager • Richard Shields • W Hampton Sides • Lisa Silverman • Elizabeth and William Sledge • Adina Proposco and David Sulsman • Thomas Strong • Elizabeth Tate • Daniel Yergin and Angda Stem Yergin



**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- Essay: A Good Start - Elisabeth Houston
- Extreme Canvassers - Sarah Laskow
- During the Breaks - Zvika Krieger
- Shots in the Dark: A Store Gone By - Daniel Kluger
- The Critical Angle: Fighting Words - Paige Austin
- Endnote: Trading Places - Flora Lichtman


**Title: Essay: A Good Start**
**Author: Elisabeth Houston**
**Page number(s): 5**
...


**Title: Extreme Canvassers**
**Author: Sarah Laskow**
**Page number(s): 10**
Liberal Yalies peddle patriotism door to door.


**Title: During the Breaks**
**Author: Zvika Krieger**
**Page number(s): 16**
American Idol draws out the story of a New Haven woman.


**Title: Shots in the Dark: A Store Gone By**
**Author: Daniel Kluger**
**Page number(s): 14**


**Title: The Critical Angle: Fighting Words**
**Author: Paige Austin**
**Page number(s): 26**


**Title: Endnote: Trading Places**
**Author: Flora Lichtman**
**Page number(s): 30**



**Title: Points of Departure**
**Author: Romy Drucker**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
THIS MONTH, the final needle will be 
threaded, the final yard of fabric cut, and the 
final Singer sewing machine sold at the landmark Horowitz Bros. store whose facade has 
dominated lower Chapel Street for 76 years. 
Modernity has slowly hemmed in the business; over the next few weeks, the entire stock 
will be liquidated during a massive sale, in an 
attempt to have everything carried out by the 
few people in this city who still sew. The 
"everything must go" mindset is particularly 
traumatic for the Horowitz family. 

Unlike 
the goods, the customers and the employees 
seem unable to "go" 
to cope with Horowitz 
Bros. being cut from the cloth of downtown 
New Haven. 

For Julia DiLullo, the closing marks the 
end. of an era. After 42 years working in the 
"always hectic" custom and drapery department, she knows that it's time to close. Her 
quiet tone divulges the truth behind her 
apparent reconciliation with this milestone. 
She is an old woman, neatly dressed in muted 
khaki tones and wearing eyeglasses, sitting 
amongst prints in cottons, poplins and linens. 
"I don't even take vacation 
that's how much 
I like to be with people," she says. "Every day 
here is special." 

The store, managed by cousins Arthur 
and Leonard Horowitz, is divided into 
makeshift departments, each presided over by 
a cautious saleswoman with me eye of a loving mother. There are bundles of fabric in 
plaids, solids, stripes, holiday prints. 
You 
name it, Horowitz Bros. has it. The notions 
department has a colorful collection of trim 
in all styles and sizes. "I came as a baby," 
Rose, another saleswoman, laughs. Thirty-
seven years later she still looks forward to 
coming to work here every day. :"The customers are crying. They don't want to see us 
go. A lot of my regulars have asked for my 
phone number." But even Rose admits that 
the industry has changed dramatically in the 
past few decades. The "buy it, sew it, wear it 
the next day" shopper simply doesn't exist 
anymore. Art Horowitz is keenly aware of the 
reasons his "home" has to close and knows he 
can not do anything to fight it. "It used to be 
very prestigious for young girls to sew 
prom 
dresses, back to school clothes," he says. "But 
the industry began to atrophy in the late 
1970s." 

Many of today's students can't even 
imagine a time when picking that savvy and 
stylish first-day-of-school outfit meant don-
ning a beautifully hand-stitched original, not 
something bought on a recent trip to the 
mall. The closing of Horowitz Bros. is a symbolic farewell to the once wide-spread domestic pleasure of sewing, but also, to a generation that took pride in originality and "innovation in a way few Yale students today can 
understand. 

The store is closing, and the 
habit that kept it in business is disappearing. 
In fact, this family-owned and -managed 
retail business is one of the last in its predominantly extinct sector. The original 
Horowitz brothers were Russian immigrants 
who left a life of peasantry to pursue their 
American dream. They first started peddling 
fabric on Grand Avenue in 1916. ~ Today, 
their legacy is carried on by cousins Leonard 
and Arthur Horowitz. Leonard's brother 
Phillip recently passed away. The trio had 
received accolades for its loyalty and personality by The New York Times and local papers 
like The New Haven Register and The 
Advocate. Art Horowitz attributes their reputation for excellence to "perseverance." Yet, as 
a salesman, he's a self-proclaimed softie: ''I'm 
not a hard nose. I'm one of those who walks 
away," he says. Geraldine Marchitto laughs. 
She managed the Hamden store and has been 
working at Horowitz Bros. since she was in 
high school more than three decades ago. She 
knows that his reputation and long-standing 
commitment to Art's work are proof that 
being a softie all these years has gotten the job 
done. 

While many of the employees plan to 
retire~ Maria Acampora, a smiling, middle 
aged woman, who has been working with Art 
for 30 years, will go job-hunting. 
As she 
descends slowly in the famous 125-year old 
elevator that is· a trademark of the store, she 
says with a sigh, "I don't think I'll find anyone 
as good to work for." Paul, the authorized 
Singer sewing machine dealer who has been 
behind the counter for 22 years overhears her 
extolling Art and calls out, "He's the man." 

The departure of Horowitz Bros. will 
leave a gap in the patchwork of downtown 
New Haven. The famous storefront sign that 
passers-by say has been there "forever" 
deserves preservation in a local museum, as a · 
reminder that economic development should 
not bulldoze the past, but incorporate it into 
the future. 


**Title: Virtually Friends**
**Author:  (Not specified)**

ON AUGUST 7, one Yale freshman was 
faced with a serious problem, one that could 
only be solved by her closest friends: "I have 
the worst case of the hiccups right now ... I 
hiccuped in my living room and it actually 
echoed," she wrote desperately. "It's bad. I 
tried sugar, water, holding my breath ... I'm 
all out of ideas. Anyone know of any effective 
remedies for the hiccups?" Her plea did not 
come in the form of an urgent telegram or a 
nervous phone message. 

Instead, she posted her urgent inquiry on 
an online "blog" community, LiveJournal, a 
forum reserved for Yale freshmen. The site 
can be accessed by anyone (http://www .. 
LiveJournal.com/ community/yale2008) and 
is currently used by ~37 devout members. A 
Yale acceptance letter is a prerequisite to join 
the forum, though anyone can post comments anonymously. But the majority of the 
thousands of entries, which date back to early 
April, are the product of a core of about thirty LiveJournalers. The website is a social 
forum in which thefacebook users post profiles 
littered with accomplishments, share a 
few racy pictures (on one thread, 
a current freshman poses semi-
nude in a genie costume), and 
"add" new friends to their bios-
soming social networks. 

The freshman LiveJournal has practical 
uses as well. Journalers have asked their classmates' advice on good summer reads, organized a massive panlist for future students 
who plan to stay sober, and sought out other 
homosexual students to eliminate anxiety. 
But the majority of the site contains the out-
pourings of angsty freshmen, who, unsure of 
what to expect in the fall, use the entries to 
raise the questions all of us surely confronted 
before we packed off to school, such 
as: "How will I get my keys on moving in day?" or, "How do we register 
for classes?" and of course, ''Anyone know of 
any effective remedies for the hiccups?" 

With only 144 members representing a 
freshman 
class 
of about 
1,300, 
the 
LiveJournal website only affects a small percentage of the '08 social scene. But even if 
freshmen aren't involved in the LiveJournal 
community, they may be members of 
Xanga 
a similarly formatted website that 
links 44 '08ers; and of course, there's thefacebook.com, a website connecting the perfected 
profiles of over 2800 Yale students and 
alums 
roughly 700 of which come from the 
class of 2008. There are more freshmen on 
the facebook than seniors, and the majority of 
the youngest class has far more "friends" than 
their upperclassmen peers. 

For most Yalies there is a key rule of face-
book etiquette: you only add people you 
know. That's 
why 
the freshman presence on theface-
book.com this summer was so 
shocking. As of August 3, one freshman had 
listed 142 friends, a stat that easily placed him 
within the top five percent ofYale's "popular" 
elite. And the freshmen didn't just "add" 
friends. They messaged. And they messaged 
people they didn't know. Frespmen with similar musical interests messaged me to comment on my taste, while more attractive 
friends of mine were messaged simply based 
on their good looks. Liz Carlin, a sophomore, 
was messaged by 
several 
freshmen 
before they arrived 
on campus. "It was nice but kind of weird 
because sometimes they didn't even send me a 
note to say why they were asking to be my 
friend," she commented later. 

This summer, in the '~bout Me" box of 
his thefacebook.com profile, Senior Jason 
Farago ranted against the freshman facebook 
presence: "Can somebody please explain to 
me why over two hundred 2008ers are 
already on this overloaded rickshaw of a website? And how do you all already have dozens 
of 'friends' 
have you met these people 
somewhere? And MAJORS? (And not just 
any old majors 
at least half of you seem to 
have been pre-approved for EP&E, as if Seyla 
Benhabib were doling out high-interest credit cards)." Though one may interpret Farago's 
satire as protective of thefacebook.com traditions, one sophomore agreed, noting how 
reckless 
friend-
adding had ruined 
the "character" of 
the site, or at least 
damaged its purpose-to provide a real 
mapped out network of social groups and to 
helping students stay in contact with friends. 

By "adding" people they had never met, 
freshmen weren't using thefacebook.com to 
cement relationships but to form them. 

"Lots of freshmen seem to know each 
other already," observed Yusuf Samara, a 
Davenport freshman counselor, as he took a 
break moving boxes into Welch. Steven 
Abramowitz, another counselor, agreed, 
adding that, "They used the facebook and the 
LiveJournal to ... arrange [their] suites." 

Melissa Gonzalez MC '08, one of the most 
dependable members of the Live Journal community, claims that her social life has already 
benefited from her Internet addiction, "~I just 
actually ran into a kid 
who I met on the journal," she gushed on her 
first day at Yale. "It's a lot less intimidating, 
even if you just talk on the Internet or the 
phone or something. At least it's something." 

But even Gonzalez needs some face-to-face 
socialization. 

That's why a group of LiveJournalers 
ended up hanging out by the steps of 
Bingham on the night of August 27, by piles 
of torn up gift boxes and an enormous birthday cake. The party was for two LiveJournal 
members, both born on August 27, who had 
faced the prospect of a lonely birthday in a 
friendless town. "If it wasn't for LiveJournal, 
I'd be in my room, doing nothing," one of the 
attendees noted. Turning to a boy in a plaid 
shirt and glasses, a freshman girl noted sue-



**Title: Yale's Online Social Scene**
**Author: Adriane Quinlan**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
'
•
cinctly, "Hi, we're friends. We met on the-
facebook.com," and the two shook hands.


If anything describes the site's diverse
members, it's pride. Many students are more
than willing to share both their personal
essays and their personal lives. One freshman
wrote a chipper entry regarding online chat-
ting, "I was up early doing homework one
day, and usually my buddy list is empty
because everyone else is asleep.... However,
now that I've added all you Yalies, there's a
couple of people online at 5 in the morning
too. I've never seen anybody go online that
early!" And in one entry, nearly the entire
community posted their college essays. With
51 individual college essay posts, the brief
skim through the enormous list would give
anyone a warm pang of pity for college
admissions officers, who are used to lines like,
"His simmering poems bloom brilliantly
within the shadows of the room as he sparked
a revolution in my soul."

The website also provides a space to say
things one probably wouldn't say in person ..
"What's so bad about elitism?" one boy
wrote, "Elitism is just realizing that you are
better than everyone else." A few days later, in
a brief description, one freshman noted, ''I'm
the greatest person in the world. Thank you."

In response to entries like these, one
joU.rnaler wrote, "I wondered, 'if these kids
are all going to Yale, then they must be
smart ... [but] some of the things that have
been said here have been completely bull-
shit!!'" As Jonny Dach noted, "People are not
the same in real life as they are on
LiveJournal, where they can choose what
facet of their personality to express, where
they can exaggerate their merits and hide
their flaws. So when they say they 'get to
know' each other online, really they're getting
to know these fake versions of each other."

The question is how this "faking" will
affect students' social lives when they come to
school. Do these students have more friends,
or fewer real friends? Whatever the answer,
SEPTEMBER 2004
..
whether this is a community of friends, or
isolated individuals connected only by a frag-
ile wire, they are certainly there to help each
other: within eleven minutes of posting, one
freshman's hiccups had been cured.
-Adriane Quinlan


**Title: Busted Stuff**
**Author: Arafot Razzaque**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

TOWARDS THE END OF EACH SEMESTER,
Yale students find their residential colleges
. overrun with bulky blue bins. Outside every
entryway door stands welcoming a sturdy
round drum, with a note stuck to its belly
that announcing: "Spring Salvage
Donate
Your Stuff!"

The SWAP
Still Worth A Penny'--
program bridges Yale with the New Haven
charity and non-profit groups. This Yale
Recycling program was developed to collect
detritus and donate it to those in need. While
this might seem akin to Dwight Hall charity
work, reuse of household items, as a form of
recycling, is overseen by Yale Recycling office.
The head of Yale Recycling, Cyril J. May
(aka CJ), works out of a cluttered office in
the basement of Welch Hall, where a huge
poster declares "Saving The Planet Is Not An
Option." Reflecting on the SWAP program, ·
he explains you have to consider people's psy-
chology, as well as their physical ability. The
challenge is to find convenient locations for
students to drop off refuse so that doing so is
not a chore, but a part of their routine.


In spring 2003, the Yale Recycling office
approached the Residential College Masters
to ask if they would permit collection boxes _
to be placed in front of every dorm entryway.
Silliman and Morse agreed. The experiment
was a success, and the following year the idea
was approved by the Council of Masters.

Students usually bring a variety of
objects to the collection sites: clothing,
·
**Title: The New Journal**
**Author:  N/A**
**Page number(s): 9**

The magazine about Yale and New Haven
'TheNewJournal is looking for Savvy Writers, Cutting-Edge
Designers, Innovative Photographers,
Business Tycoons, and Web Wizards .
36years o award-winning investigative
journalism~
social commentary~
and creative non zction
Email Flora.Lichtman@yale.edu for more information.



**Title: [Untitled]**
**Author: [Not specified]**
**Page number(s): [12]**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
12 
THE VERY 
PLA EIN 
TO BUY THE 
PERFECT 
GIFT FOR THE 
IMPOSSIBLE 
TO SHOP FOR 
1209 Chapel Street, New Haven (between Park and Howe) 
Free parking in rear 
203-787-4496 
**Title: Yale's Cultural Connections**
**Author: Elisabeth Houston**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
class seem to run parallel. In my freshmen 
suite of six, I represented one of two of the 
public high school graduates; the rest had 
attended prestigious and costly private 
schools like Phillips Andover and Horace 
Mann. An Arizona native in my class pointed 
out that there were more students in the class 
of 2007 from the Los Angeles private school 
Harvard-Westlake than there were from the 
entire state of Arizona. 

insularity of university education is 
part of a larger story about a closed cul-
ture. Many students at Yale come from 
• 
· homogenous upper-middle class communi-
ties in which parents drive Volvos and listen 
to National Public Radio. In high school, stu-
dents attend posh summer programs where 
they appropriate culture and pad their Yale 
application by traveling to underdeveloped 
Southeast Asian countries for a few weeks 
before heading to Europe for the rest of 
break. For many students, coming to Yale is a 
natural continuation of a privileged life. 
Surrounded by the fragrant summer blossoms 
on the Cross Campus green, eating delicious 
organic foodin the Berkeley dining hall, there 
is an underlying assumption that this is nor-
mal, as if all people walk barefoot on luscious 
grass, or listen to John Kerry pontificating-
twenty feet away. 

I too glide easily into this Yale narrative 
of privilege. Many of these anecdotes tell part 
of my story. When I was fifteen I traveled to 
Thailand for four thousand dollars to engage 
in a "cultural exchange program," which 
amounted to absorbing whatever culture fil-
tered through the plexiglass windows of our 
air-conditioned van. My parents both drive 
Volvos and listen to National Public Radio. 
I've been to Europe on family vacations. My 
father buys organic chicken. But I also devi-
ate from the norm: my father is black, my 
mother is white and Jewish, and they have 
both taught me to seek out a world beyond 
my own. 

The bourgeois bohemian lifestyle that 
defines "life" at Yale is not what all ofYale has 
experienced, however. It is certainly not what 
all .Cultural Connections participants have 
SEPTEMBER 2004 
experienced. Their diversity coupled with a 
strong sense of community makes CC an 
important program 
especially in contrast to 
the more typical Yale experience. Cultural 
Connections challenges the concept of the 
"normal" 
Yalie 
who 
frequents 
Urban 
Outfitter's and lands her summer internship 
at CNN because of her mother's friend. 

n contrast, for the five days of CC, multi-
culturalism is the normative narrative on 
Old Campus. A Chinese-American fresh-
man recounts a conversation that transpired 
during Cultural Connections the night 
before. "We were all sitting in Lanman-
Wright courtyard,'' she explained. ''And it 
turned out that one girl's mother cooked lob-
ster the same way my mom did with the 
entire lobster whole, eyes open and every-
thing and she was Latina. And then this 
other girl came over, and she was Korean, and 
she was telling us how her parents cooked. 
And it was kind of nice 
us all talking about 
how our parents cooked, even though we had 
different backgrounds.'' Later in the week I 
got to know two other CC participants, both 
Chicana, from poorer parts of Los Angeles, 
who attended public schools where students 
of color are a majority. " I went to a school 
that was not like a lot of what Yale is," 
Cinthia told me as 
we lounged on 
Hammonasset beach. "No one really took 
school seriously, everyone was sleeping -all the 
time, no one really cared." It is a testament to 
Yale, or at least CC, that Cinthia blended eas-
ily for those five days into the CC family, and · 
felt comfortable on a campus where women 
and minorities were once few and far 
between. 

. 
I spent a long time talking to Celeste, 
another CC participant. She is a lanky, 
spunky, earnest girl from the Boston suburbs 
with a background is much like my own-
she grew up twenty minutes from my home-
town. . "It was hard because it was mostly 
white, and I was the only black girl in most of 
my classes. And most of the black kids con-
sidered me white, and I always said, "No, I'm 
black,"" she explained. She continued, more 
optimistically. "But it's really great to come 
here and be around so many minorities who 
care about learning. I've never stayed up all 
night talking with so many minorhies about 
all these different things, and not felt like a 
loser or felt white." 

sometimes worry that the CC freshmen-
these brave, vulnerable kids 
will feel the 
isolation that I felt, and sometimes still feel, 
because I don't relate to clubby Yale, Yale of 
·creamy white skin, pearl earrings, and private 
schools; Cinthia asked me one night during 
CC, "Is this what all ofYale is like?" I didn't 
know what to tell her, because most of Yale is 
not like Cultural Connections. "People will 
be nice, you have to put yourself out there, 
look beyond the surfaces," I told her, glossing . 
over Yale's gaping problems in an attempt to 
allay her fears. But I think, as simplistic as my 
answer was~ it rings true. Yale is not only its 
surface. It is ·not only a place where the 
Bushes and the Beineckes are educated, but 
also a place where a queer Chinese-American 
girl can wear a provocative t-shirt, where 
Cinthia can feel at home, and where honest 
conversations can abound. 

Some names have been changed. 
Elisabeth Houston is a sophomore in Ezra 
Stiles College. 
13 




**Title: Drive-By Canvassing**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
UST OFF HIGHWAY 293 IN MANCHESTER, 
New Hampshire, Abi Vladeck and three 
other Yale students .pulled into a Sunoco 
. 'sta-
tion and asked the attendant to put 
twenty dollars on the meter. As Abi pumped, 
'·the attendant leaned against the station's wall 
· and told Abi casually, "You know,. Hess has 
··. cheaper gas. I shouldn't tell you that, but gas 
IS so expensive. 

Abi thanked her, and the attendent con-
tinued talking, complaining about the bad 
·economy, the Bush administration and her 
general discontent with the state of the coun-
try. 

As Abi finished pumping her gas, she 
·asked the girl, "Are you registered to vote?" 
When the attendant answered no, Abi 
·sprung into action. She called for pink sheets 
and yellow sheets, hurling information at the 
surprised girl about when, where and how to 
register, asking her to sign a card pledging to · 
· 'vote in the next election, and telling her that 
only by voting could she make her opinions 
count. Abi and her companions drove away 
satisfied. When they told me the story later, 
·they called it a .. drive-by canvassing:·


bi, Emily Friedrichs, Jared Malsin, 
Alison Duffy, and I were spending the 
in New Hampshire registering 
people whose votes we hoped would be cru-
cial in the corning election. Abi, who gradu-
ated in May with a degree in Literaque, led 
our team. Emily and Jared, both New 
Hampshire natives, were also political veter-
ans, who dedicate much of their time to 
teaching, writing and working for social 
change. Alison and I were less likely can-
vassers. Alison, a physics major, was about to 
head to France for the year to teach English. 
And I, a self-proclaimed bookworm, had 
been galvanized into political action for the 
first time, determined to direct my disillu-
sionment with my government into more 
than just another angry New Jersey ballot. 

Emerging each morning from our head-
quarters in Emily's basement, we would drive 
around the state 
west to Concord, up to the 
North Country, down to Nashua on the 
Massachusetts border 
to find our "turf": 
neighborhoods targeted for their consistently 
low voter turn-out. We planted ourselves on 
the doorsteps of unregistered voters. As five 
students in a small New Englarid state, we 
hoped we could reach, at best, a few thou-
sand people. But as one node in the 
2004ward network 
which sent 150 college ·. 
students, over 55 of them Yalies, to 14 swing 
states this summer 
we hoped that we could 
significantly increase voter participation 
before November 2nd. 

2004ward grew out of a daily Yale spec-
tacle: broadly themed, half-serious conversa-
tions being tossed around the dining hall like 
salad. Most of these seedling ideas are swept 
into the trash with dinner's leftovers, but, 
unlike so many others, the conversation 
which bore 2004ward took root in the minds 
of three veteran activists. 

2004ward's founders, Ana Mufioz, Ben 
Healey and Alek Felstiner, voted for the first 
time in 2000 and were freshman at Yale dur-
ing the controversy following George W. 
Bush's election. Ana remembers thinking that 
the whole election was a fluke, but, when in 
2002 Republicans flooded into the other 
branches of the government, she perceived 
the country coursing swiftly towards conser-
vattsm. 

Both the 2000 and the 2002 election 
saw record lows in voter turnout. For Ana 
and like-minded students, this mass of non-
voters 
almost half the country 
was a 
source of both frustration and hope. These 
students knew that the margins of conserva-
tive victory had been narrow, and if more 
people had voted, the results could have been 
different. In 2002, over brunch in Branford 
College, their conversation turned to com-
bating apathy. Ana recalled, "We said, 'We 
wish we could just go door to door and say, 
it's not about partisan politics, you're being 
fucked!"' 

In their search for the most effective 
means of influencing the election, Ana, Ben 
and Alek returned in the fall of 2003 to the 
crux of their idea 
going door to door and 
talking politics with American voters. Their 
original goal was to fmd fifty Yale students to 
train in basic grassroots organizing, trans-
forming them into what Ana calls "conduits 
for better messaging." Enthusiastic college 
students could initiate "respectful one-on-
one interactions," informing non-voters, 
through canvassing and phonebanking, how 
their vote could influence their lives. 

From the beginning, the founders of 
2004ward looked beyond New Haven and 
Connecticut. Although their activist back-
grounds taught them the ins and outs of the 
political Connecticut turf, they were tempt-
ed by unknown territory 
especially the 
swing states. Connecticut is, after all, a solid-
ly Democratic state, and, as Alek explained, 
national progressive groups wanted to fund 
election work on embattled ground. As 
2004ward expanded into a core group of 
experienced organizers, Alek, as the on-cam-
pus coordinator, started working on their 
first challenge: "to convince people that the 
most important· thing people of our genera-
tion could do right now was work on the 
election." 

Students didn't need much convincing. 
At the first 2004ward meeting before winter 
break, over fifty people showed up 
twice as 
many as expected. Alek and a few others met 
personally with everyone who expressed 
interest, finding out what motivated these 
recruits and trying to get them to commit. 
Meanwhile, before winter break, Noah 
Do bin-Bernstein, the outreach coordinator, 
made a few phone calls to students at other 
schools. The response 
immediate and over-
whelming 
took him by surprise. By spring 
term, he was spending three hours a day on 
the phone with students from over a dozen 
colleges, all of them clamoring to participate. 

Many of the potential participants came 
to 2004ward with a single-min~dness of 
purpose: getting President Bush out of office. 
And, originally, the recruitment efforts 
worked off the steam of anti-Bush anger. 
Posters on bulletin boards around campus 
asked, "Do you want to defeat Bush in 
2004?" and e-mails promised, "This summer 
dozens of Yalies will work in ~ng states to 
help take back our country." 


"The initial frustration does come from 
seeing someone like Bush in office: corrupt, 



**Title: 2004ward: The Summer of Extreme Canvassing**
**Author: Sarah Laskow**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I
self-serving, dangerous," said Ana. "But when
you start to speak about how that happens, it
becomes so much broader. Democracy is such
a precious thing; it could be so much more
alive in America."

And in the search for national partners,
Ben Healey decided that the project's focus-
would be on democracy, not on Bush. At one
time, Ben was talking to America Coming
Together, . a George Soros-funded organiza-
tion, which would have let students happity
Bush-bash all summer. But in the end, the
groups that he chose to work with-
USAction,
AssQciation of Community
Organizations for Reform Now (ACORN),
and the Immigrant Workers Freedom
Summer
all focused on non-partisan voter
regtstratton.

These three organizations could all pro-
vide the basics for 2004ward: $1500 stipends
for each intern ($2500 for those on financial
aid) and access to localized offices and staff.
Through these smaller affiliates, the students
would settle in a specific location, learn about
the region, and find out where to find pro-
gressive, unregistered voters. 2004ward's rela-
tionship with these organizations, especially
USAction, allowed Ben to set up a bank
account and goad each 2004ward-er iiuo
fundraising. As summer approached, 160 stu-
dents sent out letters to family friends, aunts,
uncles, grandparents, and asked for money.
Donations accumulated, and, in addition to
the $1500 stipend, 2004ward periodically
sent out its own checks, helping its members
pay for rent _and food.

The tight budget made finding housing
difficult. In May, the Arizona team was still
unsure of where they would be living, and in
Missouri, three Columbia students ended up
renting an apartment that also served as the
office of a local dominatrix. Our New
Hampshire team was lucky: 2004ward helped
us rent a car
our beloved "PimpMobile," a
huge. white Chrysler
and Emily's father gen-
erously offered us his basement.

By spring term exams, the conversation
that Ana, Ben and Alek had over two years
earlier had turned into an unending dialogue.
Logistics for the summer were being franti-
cally worked out, fundraising letters were
being hurriedly written and last-minute
teams were being formed. Meanwhile, the
three founders were scrambling to finish their
senior theses. But at last, after the students'
USAction training session one Sunday morn-
ing in May, the stage was set. The extreme
canvassers were about to be released.


Abi, Jared, Alison, Emily and I,
the 2004ward New Hampshire
team
worked for New Hampshire
Citizens Alliance,
a local affiliate of
USAction. The Citizens Alliance, based
across the street from the shiny gold dome of
the New Hampshire capitol building in
Concord, has fought for 25 years for "social,
economic and political justice for all." Our
team arrived on the brink of a new chal-
lenge
a campaign to register 6,500 new vot-
ers in a state where the law makes voter regis-
tration nearly impossible. Unlike every other
state, in New Hampshire, only a handful of
people
the city or town clerk, the supervi-
sor of the checklist and a few volunteers
are
deputized to register voters. Anyone who
wants to vote must visit these select few, who
are usually only available from 8:30am to
4:30pm on weekdays: inconvenient times for
the average unregistered voter, who works a
low-income job with long hours. But we had
aplan.


"Hi," I would say, after knockin._g on a
door. "My name is Sarah and I'm a volunteer
with New Hampshire Citizen's Alliance.
We're a non-profit, non-partisan organiza-
tion. I'm just going around your neighbor-
hood because right now we're really con-
cerned with fighting for health care in the
state." One in ten New Hampshire residents
has no health insurance, anc:J. many risk losing
their current coverage as small businesses are
pummeled by sky-rocketing rates. Every
band of 2004warders had its local cause, and
ours was health care.

The strategy for hunting down and bag-
ging unregistered voters scripted a series of
attacks, always focusing on issues rather than
voting. To those who opened their doors, I
fust presented a petition demanding accessi-
ble and cost-efficient health care from the
local legislators. According to Carin, our
expert orgamzer, votmg 1s a very senslttve
matter, especially for the guilty non-voter.
Asking people about voter registration
directly was a sure way to get doors slammed
in our faces. In neighborhoods filled with
families dependent on the ever changing
state health care system, most people eagerly
grabbed our clipboards and signed. And as
they were Hlling in their names and address-
es, I introduced "the second part" of our
petition
a yellow voter pledge card. Always
emphasizing the connection between politi-
cians and issues, I would explain that the
only way we (normal people) could influ-
ence them (politicians) was through voting.
I tensed up at this moment, poised to ·
launch into new arguments if refused, ready
to smile and dig deeper if accepted. Fighting
to keep one foot in the door or trying to
make the thirty seconds while they signed as
memorable as possible, I wanted to spark
some passion for civic participation in the
few minutes that I had.

Some would sign our cards without
thinking. Some would preface their signa-
ture with a comment like "Well, I'm regis-
tered already, but I guess I'll sign." (These
were usually lies. After every canvass, we
would check our signatures against the voter
rolls. Every time, sixty to eighty percent of
the people to whom we had talked were
unregistered.)

These c.ards asked nothing more than a
commitment "to register and vote by
November 2nd, 2004," but to us they were
pure gold. We put the names of already reg-
istered voters aside, saving them for basic
"get-out-the-vote" efforts in October. We
focused instead on unregistered voters, call-
ing to inform them of extended hours, sur-
veys about issues important to them, and
mailings with voter information. The voter
registration plan demanded that we follow
up with each unregistered voter five to seven
times. We would stay in the Concord office
until nine or ten at night, slowly making our
way through lists of names and numbers,
talking to each person for five or ten minutes
about their healthcare problems, their hatred
of politicians or their loQ.g hours at work.

Sometimes we coordinated other events: a
vOlunteer-staffed phonebank, a presentation
at• a homeless shelter, a booth at a public
hausing fair. When we · got tired, we amused
ourselves dreaming up extreme organizing
challenges. Challenge #1: After being air-
dropped into a strange city, naked, you have
thirty days to organize a popular revolt. Short
of such adventures, we did propel a few peo-
ple to their town hall to register because we
had shown up on their doorsteps.

true non-voters, those who have
proudly avoided the polls and politics,
tried to escape registering by a more
direct route. They'd simply announce "I don't
vote," mumble that they're not interested in
politics and begin to close the door. At the
b~inning of the summer, I would ask "Why
not?" partially because I just wanted to
lll!derstand. They would offer excuses
they
di<:ln't know about the candidate's positions,
nothing would change, they didn't have
time
and I would rebut with information.

But by the end of the summer, my friends
and I had stopped asking why. Too many peo-
pl~ just didn't want to cast a ballot
or as one
woman told Abi, before she slammed the
door, "I don't vote vote."

: NHCA employed organizers who were
supposed to "cut turf" for canvasses, accord-
ing to som~ formula involving voter turn-out,
population density and first-hand experience.
But as we became more independent and the
organizers busier, we strategically picked
streets to walk by piling in a car and driving
around looking for "our sort of people," who
generally lived in small, multi-family houses,
on crowded streets and in need of paint jobs.
We found some of the best streets this way, as
well as a street that I walked for two hours to
come up with only two signatures, one from
a y.roman who was clearly registered and the
other from a landlord who told me outright
he was going to vote for Bush. When summer
and its heat set in, a certain malaise marked
every canvass; apprehensive of a long, point-
less canvass, we would loiter at the ubiquitous
Dunkin' Donuts (we measured out our lives
by Dunkin' Donuts drive-thrus) for fifteen
minutes, half-an-hour, waiting for the sugar · ·
to propel us out into the sun.

The key to any good canvass was finding
one good conversation. We all loved talking
to felons. In New Hampshire, unlike many
other states, felons can vote, even if they're
still on parole and probation. Most felons
aren't aware of this right. In Manchester, Jared
met "Dan from Ward 5," a coffee-addicted,
guitar-playing felon from New Jersey, who
wanted to help us throw a block party in his
neighborhood to get people excited and
involved in politics. The only trump to meet-
ing people like Dan was canvassing a whole
group: Alison was invited into a house party;
a mother sat me down at her kitchen table
and convinced her son and his break-dancing
friends to stop spinning around her living
room and come talk to me; Jared, in his
record-breaking canvass of 28 pledge cards in
three hours, would run into groups just sit-
ting outside and enjoying the day, happy to
hear what he had to say. In public housing, it
seemed that every single door would open to
a family who needed and wanted information
about health care, who hadn't made the con-
nection between their lives and their politics
but who understood and wanted to register.

We had no way of knowing what effect
these encounters had. Though we spent every
day talking and thinking about voting and
registering, each conversation was only two or
three minutes long. The questions always
remained: did people understand how impor-
tant it was that they vote? Would they regis-
ter in the end
and, if they did, would they
vote the way we wanted? Despite our day jobs
as non-partisan advocates of civic participa-
tion, we still cared deeply about the outcome
of the election.

cross the country, other 2004warders
wrestled with the blessings and curses
ot issues-based organizing. The issues
varied, each one shaped by the local land-
scape. In Florida, students petitioned and col-
lected signatures to put an initiative for a liv-
ing wage on the ballot. As part of the
Immigrant Workers Freedom Summer, orga-
nizers in Arizona would spend three days a
week registering voters, then part of the
group would hike out into the desert, bring-
ing basic humanitarian aid
food, water and
medical aid
to illegal immigrants.

At the beginning of August, voters in
Missouri's primary, in addition to electing a
sheriff and state senator, could vote to amend
the state constitution to ban gay marriage.
_ Participation jumped from 22o/o the previous
year to 40% of eligible voters. The local
2004ward team, meanwhile, was working
with ACORN to organize around living-wage
issues
and though most were less than
thrilled by Missouri's embrace of the anti-gay
marriage amendment, they would take civic
engagement where they could get it.

2004warder Mischa Byruck didn't worry too
much about his newly registered voters ally-
ing themselves with the President because of
this issue. "Everyone says God bless you here.
There are churches everywhere," he said. But
in his experience, these religious beliefs do
not sway voters away from their Democratic
leanings
they would vote on the economy
more than any other issue.

In order to convincingly represent issues
to people long-accustomed to dealing with
them, the 2004ward teams had to get to
know the communities in which they were
living. Most participants chose to displace
themselves from their home territory and
tackle unfamiliar sections of the country, only
to encounter, to their surprise, distinct cul-
ture shock.

Although Ana had migrated from "mid-
Atlantic" Maryland to the Northeast for col-
lege, she was not prepared for the difference
she encountered in Arizona. "First of all," she
said, "every single building looks new. It's
really hard to distinguish neighborhoods
from each other, like you can in the
Northeast. Everything is one level. Even more
surprising to her was the resonance of the
local issue the Arizona 2004ward clan had
taken up: immigration. "I don't think I ever
really understood }:low the biggest problem in
a place can permeate a society in an entire
way. Everyone here has something to say
about immigration."

The vaguely defined regionalism in
America, it turns out, may actually mean
something. "To be Midwestern," Mischa
explains, "I think it means to have more of an
understanding of the populist, rather than the
intellectual history of America. Nature can
kill you
and there's this huge awareness of
space. You never have trouble parking. It's
amazing! You know why? There's lots of
space.

If in New Hampshire we couldn't find
parking, we could at least easily find cheap
alcohol at the state-sponsored liquor stores
along the border with the state's southern
neighbor, "Taxachusetts." Just a short three-
hour
drive
from
New
Haven,
Hampshire is a world of its own
there is a
reason the Libertarians decided to migrate
here. The state motto, "Live Free or Die,"
becomes a mantra, "free" meaning mostly
"free from any tax increases." In the last elec-
tion for the governorship, Craig Benson,
widely known for his corruption, won by a
landslide against an opponent who dared to
propose a state-wide income tax.

At times, the confusion of being a
stranger in one's own country brought on a
sort of identity crisis. Ana was surprised to
find that, instead of a Yale student or a mem-
ber of the middle class, in Arizona she felt
most like "a person from the Northeast."
"That stereotype on my part," she said,
"makes me understand why we have red states
and why we have blue states."

ince no overall numbers exist for how
many new voters 2004ward volunteers
registered this summer, their real contri-
bution is difficult to measure. Many of the
recent graduates will continue with their elec-
toral work in some form until November,
while some undergraduates intend to put
their extreme canvassing skills to work on
weekenqs. Though the 2004warders will
probably never fmd themselves all in the same
room, they now share a basic unity of skills,
and the founders think they have achieved
what the wanted. The effects, they hope, will
be felt on campus as well as across the nation.

"I think these individuals will influence cam-
pus politics with great strength, an understat-
ing of direct action and organizing and the
nuts and bolts of electoral work," said Healey,
himself a New Haven alderman.

As
the
five
Hampshire
2004warders left our adopted state at the end
of the summer, we promised NHCA that we
would soon return, with reinforcements. And
that no matter what, we would be there on
election day, fighting to get every last pro-
gressive in New Hampshire into a voting
booth. Back at Yale, the campus is already
abounding with students asking each other
how their summers went
but,
until
November 2, we won't be able to fully answer
that question.

TNJ
Sarah Laskow, a junior in Davenport
College, is a Managing Editor ofTNJ.


**Title: Lisa**
**Author: Zvika Krieger**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
·'""' 
• 
DISCOVERED OUR MUTUAL OBSESSION AT DINNER one night 
when I told Lisa that her new hairstyle inade her look like 
Fantasia, one of my favorites on .American Idol. Every week 
Lisa has a different hairstyle: sometimes it is cropped short in curls, 
other weeks it is parted down the middle with long extensions. That 
day her hair was slicked back in a shiny wave 
just like Fantasia's. 
. • 
Lisa would not have it; she thought Fantasia sounded like Macy 
. Gray, and she hated Macy Gray. "La Toya is going to win, hands 
•·:::..· down," Lisa said as she scooped a spoonful of curried chicken onto my 
dining hall tray. The long line of students behind me kept me from 
arguing with her 
we would have to settle it later. 

The familiar orchestral crescendo of the American Idol theme 
music fills my entryway every Tuesday night at 8 pm, calling friends 
and passers-by to my common room. My friends and I make the same 
mistake every week of bringing our textbooks to the couch, pretending 
that we can cram in some reading during the commercials. The howl-
ing, cheering, and random exclamations from our common room audi-
ence prevent any work from getting done; those who live nearby but 
choose not to indulge in the weekly pop culture ritual know to retreat 
to the library during Idols weekly slot. This week, however, I forewent 
-
. -
the sacred routine in order to catch a ride home with Lisa so I could 
watch the show with her. 

........ daughter of a retired fire fighter and a school teacher, Lisa 
Johnson was born in New Haven in 1961, the second of three sis-
ters. They belonged to Mount Zion Seventh Day Adventist 
Church, and her parents ran a very strict household. "On Friday, when 
the sun went down, we went down," she recalls~ 

The way she explained -it to me, the partying started as Lisa and 
her sisters got older. Following the lead of her older sister, Lisa fre-
quented the clubs of downtown New Haven, especially the trendy Blue 
Angel Cafe. She brags now that she was never carded because she 
always looked older. "Always." 

Though Lisa did well in high school 
"I graduated with 3 As and 
2 Bs" 
she decided to enroll in the SPACE program for students enter-
ing the workforce rather than college. She alternated between two 
weeks of school and two weeks of work as a salesperson at Macy's. "I 
was officially a floater, but I always ended up in the Men's department." 

ich, Zeus, and Carl all asked Lisa for rides home from the din-
ing hall tonight. The music in the car is blaring, so I can't quite 
the conversation. Zeus got a restraining order on his ex-
girlfriend Shanice. Rich convinced Zeus to buy a car that he couldn't 
afford at a police auction. Rich was screwing around with Shanice. 
Rich's wife lives in Brooklyn. And Carl is just laughing at both of them 
. the whole time. Lisa finally turns down the radio. 

"Oh .my god. Yesterday I saw that cop that pulled me over a few 
nights ago for running two lights. I pulled right over when I saw him. 
He was so. fine! He said, 'You got some time for me?' Damn straight I 
. 
got some time for you. I'll fucking make time. So I gave him my num-
b " 
er . 

The three guys laugh . 

Lisa pulls up to the curb, and the guys get out. She yells after them . 
"You got Barbershop, and you got Leprechaun 2, don't you? That's 
why I'm going to stop lending out my fucking movies. My memory is 
gone. I can't remember shit today from yesterday!" 

A few blocks later, we pull up at Lisa's house. There are no lamps 
on the street, so I can't really see the rest of the block. 

Inside, the living room seems out of proportion. The ceilings are 
low and slope downward. A big chunk of one of the fiberglass wall pan-
els is missing. An oversized couch and an enormous big-screen TV take 
up the majority of the living room 
"Yeah, it's a big fucking TV for a 
small fucking house!" 

Before I get to see much else, Lisa throws her purse on the floor, 
jumps on the couch, and turns on the television. I take a seat at the 
other end. In the few minutes we have before the show begins, Lisa 
half-jokingly mentions the allegations of racism being hurled at the 
show in light of Jennifer Hudson's recent defeat on the competition. 
But before I have time to weigh-in on the issue, Lisa excitedly begins to 
extol the virtues of "sister" La Toya. Though she gets angry when I 
begin to advocate for Fantasia, we both agree that "white-boy" John 
Stevens is really annoying, and we can't wait for him to get kicked off 
the show. Satisfied, Lisa turns up the volume in time for the first per-
formance of the evening. 

During the commercial break, Lisa goes to the upstairs bathroom, 
and I take a look around. The entire house is decorated in muted 
shades of cream, maroon, and gray. Along the wall behind the couch is 
a long mirror in the shape of the New York City skyline. Next to the 
enormous television are two huge speakers stacked on top of one 
another. Beside those are endless piles of DVDs 
bootlegs, Lisa 
explains later. A crooked lamp in the corner casts an awkward shadow 
on the house plants, three hanging and two potted. Along the top of 
the television are prom pictures in plastic frames painted in ... glitter. 

When the American Idol theme music comes back on, Lisa sprints 
back down stairs. She jumps on to the couch beside me in time to catch 
the next song. It is forbidden to talk during performances, so I wait for 
the next commercial break to ask more about her life. 

tevie Peters was "a bum." He lived in "one of those raggedy-ass 
apartments in the projects," where the "elevator didn't w.ork, the 
halls smelled like pee, and homeless were people sleeping in 
the halls." 


THE NEw JouRNAL 


·• 
, 
"I always said I wouldn't talk to people from the projects," 
Lisa tells me. "I was dead wrong." After graduating from 
Hillhouse, Lisa worked at Circuit Wire, an electronics manufac-
turer on the corner of Whaley and Orchard. Stevie used to hang 
around the store while Lisa was working. "We started dating," Lisa 
says with a schoolgirlish grin. 

Lisa moved in to Stevie's apartment after a few months; then 
she got pregnant. The baby, Angela, was always crying. When Lisa 
took her to the hospital, she discovered that Angela had a legation 
of the left coronary artery. 

"And that's when all the drugs and alcohol came in to my life. 
I thought it would take away all the pain. I was so stoned, I could-
n't feel nothing ... I needed something to shield me. She was my 
first child, and the doctors kept repeating that it was a live-or-die 
situation. That was a scary damn place to be at." 

In the meantime, Lisa became pregnant again and gave birth 
to Stevie Jr. Though Stevie and Lisa initially argued over where the 
babies would live after Angela recovered, Stevie was soon arrested 
for larceny and sent to jail. "He quit his job because he wasn't 
making enough money for drugs. So he started boosting 
that's 
what we call stealing," she explains. 

After living with her Grandma Ty for a short time:-
"she was a great babysitter" 
Lisa enlisted for welfare. 

Together with her two children, she got her own apart-
ment at 1440 Whaley Avenue. She stayed at home, 
"living off the state," taking care of her kids as they 
went to kindergarten. When the landlord sold 
Lisa's apartment, she moved in with her sister. 
By that time, Stevie had been released 
from prison, but within a week, he was sent 
right back for another larceny. When Lisa 
heard this, she vowed, "That was the 
end of his ass." But when arguments 
between Lisa and her sister's hus-
band forced Lisa to move out, 
Stevie was the only person she 
could turn to. 

Since being released 
from jail for the second 
time, Stevie had moved 
. . 
in with a new girl-
friend, Katrina, with 
whom 
he 
had 
another son, also 
named Stevie 
Jr. 
After a 
SEPTEMBER ""'-'' 
. ' 
.. 
by Zvika 
• teger 
brief stay with them, Lisa finally decided to register as homeless at the 
city office. 

After receiving emergency ninety-day housing at a hotel in Old 
Saybrook, Lisa qualified for the Rental Assistance Program (RAP) 
which helped her find an apartment. Two years later, she was able 
to move to a house on Winthrop Street. It was there that the self-
titled "New Haven Drug. Factory" was established. 

When some of Lisa's sister's friends came down from 
New York, she offered to put them up in her new house. 
Bringing small quantities of drugs with them, they start-
ed "a nice little business" along with Lisa. Within a few 
weeks, it turned in to "an all-night, 24-hour a day, 
non-stop drug factory. I would have never made 
that amount of mqney in a lifetime." 

At the same time, Lisa started dating a man 
named TJ; it was what Lisa describes as "the 
quickest relationship ever." She had seen 
him around New Haven. "New Haven is 
small, and you get to know everybody, 
especially from your age bracket." .LJ" 
soon became pregnant with TJ's 
baby, but two months after giving 
birth to their daughter Lauren, 
TJ died of cancer. "He was a 
good guy. Never drank, never 
did anything 
he could 
have been perfect." 

Meanwhile "the business got bigger and bigger." Pay-offs· to the 
police department gave them advance warning· of any raids, which 
became . more frequent as their operation grew. The high volume of 
police raids caused Lisa to lose her RAP enrollment, and in turn, her 
house. But by that point she had another boyfriend 
"The Asshole"-
with whom to move in. She continued her drug trade from a neigh-
bor's house, though she was pregnant again. 

It was almost two years after Quinn's birth when Lisa heard a 
knock on the door. Another .customer, Lisa assumed. She went into 
the bedroom to fetch her usual bags .. of weed and . coke. As she 
approached the front of the house, the door burst open and twelve 
policemen rushed in, surrounding her with cocked guns. She dropped 
the drugs and threw her hands up in the air. She recognized one of the 
cops; she thought he must have been there before, undercover. She 
knew it was over: "They had me." 

next time I go to Lisa's house, the radio is off and I sit in the 
front seat of the car. Carl is in the back talking about the "flat-ass 
hos" that Rich and Zeus took down to a club in Stamford last 
weekend. "No-ass-at-all," he explains. 

Since John Stevens wasn't kicked off American Idol last week, we 
had agreed to watch the show together again this Tuesday to relish 
what was sure to be his pending departure. 

As we drive through the campus, I point out a friend of mine 
walking on the sidewalk in front of us. She asks me his name. "Josh." 
A wide smile spreads across her face. 

"Call out his name when we pass him," I suggest. 

'Tm one step ahead of you," she says. She slows down next to · 
him, yells out his name, and waves. The confused look on his face 
throws her in to a fit of laughter as we speed down the street. 

Though Carl lives only three blocks away from Lisa, it takes us a 
good ten minutes to get home after we drop him off because of all the 
one-way streets. 

"You used to be able to zoom right down the street. But because 
of all the drive-bys and the drug busts, they changed up the streets, put 
in stop signs, traffic lights, dead-ends. Slow people down some." 

The sun is still out when we arrive, so I can see the house . better 
now. It looks like a lunchbox with a roof-
no porches, no balconies. 

It is all white, with four square windows. Two cars, both with deflated 
tires, sit in the driveway beside the house. A cat greets us at the tattered 
screen door. 

"Charlotte, I know you peed all over the rug. I can see it on your 
face." 

The house seems a lot bigger than I had remembered it. I take my 
usual seat at the end of the couch. 

ail was just like a dorm, like college," Lisa offers without a smile. 
"They even called them dorms over there." She had the key to her 
own room, and could wear her own clothes 
"six shirts, six pairs 
of pants, six of everything." Though sentenced to six years of prison, 
Lisa was released in just one to a Work Release program in Waterbury, 
Connecticut. She lived in a h01 1se run by Catholics and got a job doing 
housekeeping at the Marriott. Eight months later, she was on parole. 
"I didn'-r know nobody in Waterbury, which is the way I liked it, so I 
couldn't get in no trouble." She moved her kids there, except for 
Quinn, who stayed with her father. After they moved in with a co-
worker named Wayne, Lisa quit her job and-began "going out, staying 
24 
out late all night." When the money ran out, Lisa knew it was time to 
go back to· New Haven. 

After living with her sister for a month, Lisa moved in across the 
street frqm her parents. Lisa's father called in a favor from a childhoo[ 
friend who managed one of the dining halls at Yale. "I started i11 
September 1998, no application, no nothing." When Lisa's aunt did 
in 2000, she left an empty house in New Haven. Lisa moved right i11, 
and tha is where we were sitting today. 

i 
·n the next week, Lisa had a meeting with the Housing Authority. 
"I've been waidng nine years for them to call," she tells me during 
the commercial break. But she says she won't accept. "I just want to 
hear them offer it to me, and I want to be able to turn it down in their 
face," she cackles. Last week, she went with Carl to "scope out" all the 
public housing facilities that the Housing Authority works with, like 
the apartments on Grand Avenue and in West Hills. 

"They suck. Have you seen those projects? They're the ones with 
those guys hanging-around outside with their trunks open, blasting 
their music. I may live in the ghetto, but at least it's the quiet ghetto. 
And since its mostly old folks around here, I never have no problems.' 

But Lisa admits that all this talk of housing did convince her t~ 
look in to Yale's Homebuyers' program. "The ceilings in this place are 
too low. Everything is falling apart. With all the kids moving in and 
out and in and out, I need more rooms," she explains. "And I want t~ 
finally own my own place." 

The phone rings. It's Stevie Jr., or "Steve-o" as Lisa refers to him 
He works at Stop N' Shop down in Milford 
he's calling because 
just got off work. Lisa has been trying to convince him to apply for 
job with the fire department. "I was even going to pay the hundred 
dollar application fee for him," she tells me. "But he just smokes weed 
all day." 

Lisa excitedly reports that her oldest daughter Angela is applying 
to go to nursing school in Hamden. She is already a mother of two. 
"I told Angela not to have kids yet," Lisa says ruefully. "I guess she 
has bad luck with men, too. I see it already. She's going through the 
same bullshit I went through. I just hope they don't go down the same 
path I went down. I try to push them in the right direction." 

ohn Stevens finally gets voted off the show that night. When hi! 
name is announced, Lisa and I begin to clap excitedly in unison. AJ 
the commercials start, we give each other a familiar look 
and laugh. 

Some names and locations have been changed. 

Zvika Krieger is a junior in Silliman College. 



**Title: COINCIDENCE:**
**Author: Paige Austin**
**Page number(s): 27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
both
itlllm and crisp on .· . ·· ..• , •• ·· :1;e, 
for 
· · ·· ·. ·· ...... 
· .. 
· in; the past . . 

Russians 0f heroes, as well as victims. 

Amedean policy-n 
for its . • · • 
the 
than 
even in Russia's 
1n I ere nee 
are 
left to 
, these cbJ[C 
one exists. Though 
~J;u·o 1n .. u:;; , " the books 
to gauge 
ts 
effect 
have on 




**A Review of "Gulag" and "Problem from Hell"**
**Author: Anonymous**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
to conjure ominous images of popular affec-
tion and nostalgia for the USSR by describing 
tourists in Prague who enthusiastically 
bought up Soviet memorabilia, or a magazine 
editor who rejected an article of hers, calling 
it "too anti-Soviet." "Still, it is hard to imag-
ine that contemporary Western readers are 
really all that keen on Stalin, the Gulag's 
greatest proponent, or nostalgic for the gold-
en days of Soviet mastery. Genocide, Power's 
chosen subject matter, is even less controver-
sial: ·the very word bespeaks moral repug-
nance and atrocity of the highest magnitude. 
No student of 20th century history requires 
her fastidious accounts of torture, death and 
: destruction in Germany, Cambodia or 
· Rwanda to realize the horrifying nature of 
· these incidents. Indeed, the remarkable pat-
• · tern the two authors set is almost certain to be 
: broken by next year's non-fiction Pulitzer 
' winner simply because the century contains 
: few other tragedies that could match these. 


Just because these events are well-known, 
• : however, does not mean that they are well-
: understood. Both authors amply demonstrate 
· that general popular awareness does not do 
: justice to the scope of these atrocities. 
: Though she hesitates to give aggregate num-
' · bers, Applebaum estimates that 28.7 million 
• ' people pass~d through Soviet-forced labor 
: camps, several million never to emerge. 
• : Despite the obvious untold injury to their 
; society, many people in the former Soviet 
: Union are hesitant to galvanize widespread 
• · remembrance and recovery. A Russian author 
Applebaum quotes wrote in 1989, "And the 
• · killers? The killers live on ... " 


Power shines her light onto better known 
: instances of genocide: Armenians in Turkey; 
• : Jews, Poles and others in the Holocaust; 
' Cambodians by their own Khmer Rouge 
; 
regime ~ Kurds in Iraq; Bosnian Muslims in 
; Serbia; and Tutsis in Rwanda. Still, these tales 
: of systematic killing that she shares are by no 
• : means fully assimilated into popular con-
. sciousness. Her book's most poignant claim 
: for the necessity of memory comes from 
• : Adolf Hitler, who asked his military chiefs in 
: 1939, "Who today still speaks of the massacre 
' · of the Armenians?" 


After conceding the value of education, 
: however, the authors diverge starkly in their 
• ; .aims. Power, examining the response of the 
: "United States to each large-scale atrocity, is 
: .able to make specific recommendations for 
• : /uture 
policy 
and 
political 
response. 
: :Applebaum, in contrast, deals with how peo-
• • ·ple create and respond to terrible circum-
• 
~ stances and with what that tells us about "the 
. 28 
darker side of our own human nature." She 
does not hope to deter future tragedy; rather, 
she writes, "This book was not written 'so 
that it will not happen again,' as the cliche 
would have it. This book was written because 
it almost certainly will happen again." Her 
approach, heavily reliant on memoirs and 
anecdotes, illuminates the human side of 
tragedy without making any promise of 
future improvement. 


f Applebaum's purpose is not exactly 
heartening, Power offers little better. 
Though she celebrates the efforts of jour-
nalists, politicians, government officials and 
others who pressed for action in the face of 
unfolding genocide 
almost always to no 
avail 
Power suggests that a clear conclusion 
can be drawn from how rarely these advocates 
surfaced. The consistent failure of the US 
• government to respond to genocide, she 
argues, is not a failure at all. It is the logical 
and deliberate outcome of present political 
value system, in which politicians and citizens 
share a common set of priorities: suffice it to 
say, "It's not genocide, stupid." 


The magnitude of this inaction, Power 
shows, is as shocking as it is immoral. In part 
because she deals with better known cases of 
genocide than the Gulag, her readers may be 
most startled not by her descriptions of each 
tragedy but by her revelations of just how 
much US politicians and-policy-makers knew 
about each, and how little they did to 
respond. 


Again and again, Power finds that those at 
the highest level of US government knew 
what was unfolding and failed to act. 
President Jimmy Carter, remembered as one 
of the greatest proponents of human rights to 
occupy the White House, discounted Khmer 
Rouge atrocities because of the US's burgeon-
ing alliance with China, a KR ally, and the 
desire to check the expansion of Soviet influ-
ence. The Iraqi government's use of chemical 
weapons against entire Kurdish villages in the 
late 1980s was overlooked because Saddam 
Hussein was simultaneously waging war 
· against Iran, a more established US political 
foe. In every case 
from the Armenian to the 
Bosnian and Rwandan genocides 
the US 
was hesitant to respond, eager to preserve its 
delicate neutrality, its freedom from moral 
implication and most important of all, its 
lack of involvement on the ground. 


More sympathetically, Power explains, 
policy-makers, like many civilians, simply 
had trouble conceiving of torture, murder 
and destruction taking place on such a large 
scale. Some even recognized this personal 
inability. Faced with testimony from a Polish 
diplomat who had seen both the Warsaw 
Ghetto and the Belzec death camp firsthand, 
US Supreme Court Justice Felix Frankfurter 
responded by telling him, "I don't believe 
you." When the young man protested, 
Franfurter explained, "I do not mean that you 
are lying. I simply said I cannot believe you." 


Given such incapacity, Power's narrative, 
crafted in careful detail and hundreds of foot-
notes, is invaluable. 


The greatest strength of Power's argument 
is her suggestion of a litany of "soft respons-
es" to genocide that do not require military 
intervention. Power argues for public denun-
ciations, action in the UN, and suspension of 
a nation's "economic perks" with indignation 
and an enraged sense of what might have 
been. 


This approach, however, is weakened by 
Power's overall conclusion: the US govern-
ment 
from the president down to the con-
gressional and State Department high brass:-
rarely wants to deal with the problem of 
unfolding genocide, unless massive public or . 
diplomatic pressure has made it impossible 
not to. The reason, Power declares, is not lack 
of information. As a State Department 
Middle East specialist during the Iraqi killing 
of Kurds recalls in the book, "The facts were 
available, but you don't get the full facts 
unless you want the full facts." 


or, one realizes after reading Gulag, 
will the facts always be basis enough 
to stop unfolding terror. Because the 
Gulag spanned several decades and entangled 
countless government ministries, industries, 
and prison outposts, classifying it under the 
traditional rubric of international crimes is 
difficult 
and deterring it may well have 
been impossible. As the Supreme Court jus-
tice said, conceiving of killing on such a 
broad scale is almost beyond our capacity for 
imagination. The case of the Gulag, as 
Applebaum describes it, pushes one's sense of 
befuddlement almost to a breaking point. An 
off-color joke, a neighbor's baseless suspicion, 
or knowledge of a foreign language was 
enough to merit over a decade of hard labor 
in unbearable, if not intentionally murder-
ous, conditions. Whole cities and industries 
were built on the backs of slave laborers. Yet '
at almost no point did the Soviet government 
operate death camps like those made infa-
mous by the Nazis, images of which 


--- Page 29 ---

inevitably come to mind at the very mention 
of the word "genocide." The boundaries 
between intention and neglect, murder and 
mismanagement, are thus hard to delineate in 
this case. Applebaum is careful to point out . 
that in the USSR, many of the shortages and 
cruelties of camp life were merely amplifica-
tions of the reality in the so-called free world 
outside. Even the paradox of promoting love 
of country and party while working people to 
near death was merely an extension of the 
often "ludicrous" gap between Soviet propa-
ganda and Soviet reality. The blatant disre-
gard shown for human life within the Gulag, 
also., seems like an amplification of a broader 
Soviet phenomenon. 


In the face of such diffuse and well-
entrenched tragedy, perpetrated by one of the 
world's great superpowers, Power's soft solu-
tions seem unlikely to have had much effect. 
Applebaum thus faces a different sort of chal-
lenge 
not of corp.paring cases and making 
inferences, but of gleaning a lesson from a 
unique, harrowing, and complex saga. 


At best, Applebaum's narrative admonish-
es her readers not to worsen the situation-
for, though it seems unlikely, the Gulag's 
observers and inhabitants did indeed con-
tribute. In 1945, with the Treaty of Yalta, 
both the US and British governments agreed 
to repatriate all Soviet citizens in territories 
under their control despite clear evidence of 
what would happen to them in their home-
land. Those who protested were tricked into 
returning or deported by force. As a result, 
tens of thousands of men and women who 
might have escaped instead disappeared into 
the Gulag 
a chapter of the Soviet travesty 
that Applebaum says subsequent Western 
scholars have been hesitant to discuss. 


Prisoners and civilians added to the 
Gulag's countless layers of sadness and irony, 
by shunning, robbing, torturing and degrad-
ing one another. Applebaum weaves these 
saddening anecdotes of these crimes with 
more heartening ones, contravening the too-
common retrospective tendency to cast all 
victims as innocents. Her story is less crisp, 
cohesive and constructive than Power's, with 
less indignation and fewer "what-ifs" to pre-
vent her reader from drowning in the dark-
ness of self-destruction permeating the entire 
600-page work. Power, it seems, draws a road 
map 
towards 
improvement, 
while 
Applebaum offers no such plan. But then, 
even if a road did exist out of the Soviet 
Gulag, where could that knowledge be 
applied today? 


SEPTEMBER 2004 


pplebaum, for one, is not without a 
suggestion. Her most resonant appeal 
comparison is with present 
day North Korea. In the midst of the Gulag 
narrative, Applebaum writes that 400,000 
people are estimated to have died in North 
Korean "punishment centers," which today 
hold an estimated 200,000 prisoners, many 
working as forced laborers. These centers, lit-
tle noticed in the West, are eerily reminiscent 
of the Soviet Gulag. Power's study, in con-
trast, lends itself as a lens to a less diffuse pre-
sent-day atrocity. When she spoke at Yale last 
April, Power warned her audience about the 
"text-book" case of genocide unfolding in 
Darfur, where the Sudanese government has 
armed Arab militias now responsible for the 
murder or displacement of over a million eth-
nically black Darfur residents. 


Of the two authors, only Power makes 
clear what tools may be deployed in an effort 
to halt tragedies like those in Darfur and 
North Korea, the definitive histories of which 
cannot yet be written. Applebaum, instead, 
elucidates the humanity of the victims, 
strained, cracked and contorted by the inhu-
manity of their situation. The authors' voices 
meet again only in the plea that runs through 
both texts. They ask readers to wrestle with 
the sheer scope of these horrors that seem to 
defy belief: believe it, their books demand, 
believe it. 


**Move-In Day and Other Italian Adventures**
**Author: Flora Lichtman**
**Page number(s): 30**

ove-in day always makes me nostalgic. I remember how I felt 
when 1 first passed through the blue pearly gates of Yale 
University. The mystifying sensation of walking into 
Commons, thinking, "Where am I? And how did I find myself a part 
of this 300-year-old brain club," is one I won't soon forget. When I 
decided to go abroad, I felt a similar sense of bafflement, but 
without the tacit reassurance that I had been admitted. 


I took the semester off to go to Italy and found · 
myself in an equally foreign place, coping with a 
humbling cerebral downgrade. 


Part of the problem was that when I 
absconded from New Haven, it hadn't 
occurred to me that I might want to study 
Italian before arriving on Italian soil. 
(.Though even if I had, I think Italy still 
• 'Yould have gotten the best of me.) 


Instead, I would go to the bakery and 
walk out with six loaves of wheat bread 
when all I wanted was a muffin. I went to 
the pharmacy for decongestants and left · · 
with skin-lightening creams. My graver 
pronunctatton errors were even more mstructtve. 
When I thought I was exalting a half pound of prosciutto crudo, a 
bunch of bananas, or a phone card from the local tobacco store as per-
fetto, I learned I had been saying something slightly different. Instead 
of telling the local shopkeepers that their products were perfect, I was 
telling everyone in my God-fearing town, from small children to old 
ladies, that each one was himself perfetto. 


As my lingual slips pushed me closer and closer to the fringe of soci-
ety, I began to do all I could to fade into the mosaic. It wasn't that I 
couldn't speak Italian (although I couldn't); it was that I was deeply 
afraid that someone might know I couldn't speak Italian. Even the deaf-
mute persona was preferable 
which is why the bus ride from -my 
home to my job was usually the most angst-ridden 17 minutes of my 
day. There were a few tricks that I learned to avoid parlay-ance. First, 
s~cure the single seat up front, at all costs. Second, ~ways harbor head-
phones in case it looks like someone may want to talk; and third, the 
last resort, pretend to sleep if someone does ask a question. I practiced 
these measures religiously until I met Filippo. 


. 
He was exactly my age. He was slim and neat and there was some-
thing intense about him. I first saw him my second day on the bus. I 
remember thinking that it was surprising to find my husband-to-be so 
quickly 
but I knew we would be good together. Our friendship pro-
gressed slowly: I was terrified of ruining the fantasy I had created about 
him, and so I stifled coughs, swallowed sneezes, and avoided anything 
else that may have provoked conversation. Then one day he asked me 
my name. And despite the fact that I barely knew how to answer, he 
kept at it. Strangely, . he seemed to only be marginally upset that I 
understood· only a fraction of his loud, slow, Italian monologues. We 
sat next to each other every day, and he spoke to me with infinite 
patience as my Italian slowly improved. 


·. 
'• .·. -~ 
'• 
~-
. . ··: 
·-· 
•.· 
~,-
. . ·•. ~ 
•. 
., .. 
It was difficult for me to speak to him, not 
least of all because our conversations were 
far from private. The other passengers 
seemed acutely aware of our interac-
tion 
and they were impossible to escape. 
The same old women boarded everyday, 
always traveling in packs, never paying, 
and frequently casting us quizzical looks. 
The smoker with the old-w<?rld teeth, who got 
on near the Eurospin and exchanged a kiss with 
the old man up front, raised her eyebrow when 
she passed us. The high school girl seemed more 
disturbed by our conversation than by the com-
ments from a man at the front, which seemed 
to me at least tonally lewd. 


Filippo and I spoke daily for weeks. I learned 
that his favorite book is Harry Potter (which is also his 
favorite movie); he likes to make lasagne a! forno; he enjoys eating 
Neapolitan Pie, and he loves taking pictures. He learned that my 
favorite book is Portrait of a Lady, I like to make quiche, eat gelato and 
go fishing. He was my first real friend in Italy, and I frequently wrote 
letters home describing what our children might look like. 


But despite the Italian lessons, my obliviousness had not quite dis-
appeared. The first time I saw Filippo outside the bus, he was wander-
ing around the playground in town. He was wearing his pants very 
high. He had a multi-colored fanny pack slung sloppily around his 
waist. His arms were clenched at his sides. Suddenly, the curious stares 
I had received from the other passengers on the bus started to make 
more sense. His gymnastics class; his penchant for close talking 
per-
haps these were not just cultural differences, as I had assumed. I real-
ized that he was mentally handicapped. 


.... 
Filippo saw me, waved and asked me what I was up to. "Avevo-io 
fotto andondo per una passeggiatta," I answered. "I have had done going 
for a walk." 


Tl'\ I 
-
Flora Lichtman, a senior in Davenport College, 
is a Managing Editor ojTN]. 



**Untitled**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
~ 
V) 
' 
~ ... 
:,.: 
,......, -... ·.<>;-;-;- ··-:-;.:.-:-~.;.. 
-~:.-~.:-:;;-
•,' 
·> ·•' 
' • .,.,.,_ 
~-· '•'···. 
.... •• ,_ 
-~·---·.· . 
~- .-.. 
-.. ···.-. 
.-
--·"-' 
_, 
···•.·.· 
· .. -.-... · 
.·. ... 
.,_ .... 
. 
:~::::::;:<: 
:~/:f. 
~- _}::~· 
·:~::)\_ /,)':·•f 
·•• 
· ·"'~"~":'• f.M17•> 
.. .. 
\ 
·.·. ·• 
. ... 
.. 
. ..... ·.·.···~·· ·. 
~~ .... , ........... . 
, 
\\ 
'' 
' . 
-* ' 
--· 
.Mw 
'" 
" 
' "' 
~~ ' 
- -
··-
v 
\i 
\ \ 
' " 
! 
Vi \./,:: ::""W"
:)~~~. 
,:.:::<)W.::;w 
~ -;-::::::d~: ·:'- -· 
.. , \ 
.. ·····•• . ,.,. 
...• ·.".. 
• <· ·w· 
,, ' .. 
.., . ., 
'""'' 
-·· 
i@$. ?!'I·:I:iNli\:f); 
,(j:}F C) 
,JfiK 
. •.•, ·.-:.:.:::::x:;;::~f-·:;\, 
-~.<{(:w-· ~ 
,.-:)?-'. 
·. . 
.. w 
. . ' 
.f JJ-· 
E 
I 
~ I'' 
CJ 
. -
lr) 
a 
,~ 
N 
..... 
. • '\ 
~ Y'l ~ • 
~ ~ '~ 
~;:s~ 
.. \.c' 
• • 
0 0 


<br>

**Page number(s): 32**

::;:::;};:;:·-'-.. 
:·:}ht~/: 
;e::::::<-. 
~;:_:Xt. 
;~:;:;:;:;;;.";:: :: :;;,;; 
•:!". 
-~; 
-..: 
:v 
' ..... 
,• ; .. _., __ 
-
._·-~ 
·::;_ 
~ fl!-f.-.-j_ 
;£-n..u.- . 
2 ~Aa. 
~~ 
,. 
2 
. . 
-' 
' I 
. . -···-·· .•.•.. 
., 
., . . ·•· 
;.,_. -;-:----... : --~-~-..... _ ;..-.·._.-:-:,.-~ ... :.~ 
;. -;-.-·;.. ... ; . -... -:~: .... &:i·:;·: 

258 COLLEGE STREET • 
PHONE: (203) 785-0104 
. . ; ..... :; .. ·.:: ·.•.·. 
.•. , 
.·.· 
.. ·. ·~·~ 
/ :/ 
~ -;:·.·. 
·p: 
. ..... . 
' • 
• .:: * 
... 
• •. , •• ·.d·.-· •• -.·,· . 
.;:_ 
~ - ...... ·:·· 
f ..• 
~- ....
.. . 
:·~-
.. :::::::: ; . 
(. ;::-: . ::;: 
.-:-·:': . 
=~-
.,, 
-.)' 
:-·:' 
.... -:· -·. :-::-. . 
· -:-: . 
~-·· · :;: .. . ., .. - . ... ;;f. 
. .;.. 
..·. 
_,, .. 
.$ 1.85 
.$2.19 
.$ 3:00 
.s 3.~0 
•,•.•.· 
·-.-~.· -~n; .. ,.• 
....... 
}_¥<t·· 
• . • ,. '" ,.,._ .-.w;·.~;;. 
.·.. . .. 
:·:-:-:-. -:.:-;-· 
i"j~l;~;i' 
$500
})6 
.:::~r --~-
• • • 
·-> 
' ·.·.-
-Wif\QS 
.. f 
::~r-
~Oip 
. . . . s s.oo . 
:· + • 
f 
i •• A • 
~ • 
• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . $ 5.00 .•. 
~ . . . . . . . . .. . . . . • . . . • $ 5.00 
~ -~ 
O.lp or llollott 
$CIU(w 
Fried. Calamari . . . . . . 
~ . . . . ........ · .• $ 5.00. 
, . ' ... 4 
4 
• .. $ 5.00 
5.00 
.... $ 
Jaldpenos. 
~:::_::~i/ 
___ ~ '- . 
\~-. --~ t-r:.:.~ • ·•· 
..• 
... ·.• •, 
.•. 
•. ~' 
.· " 
, .• 
:'. 
.. : ...... . 
) . . . . . ,. 
l"'i:--1 .. 
~ . 
~ ~ . . . . . . . . ·• ' ' . . 
Oi'MI 
.· .. ··. __ 
:: __ ::(·:::: .·.·--~ . 
_:·· . . ' 
.. • 
or Spanish OmeJ;t 
w•wum' Orrtelet 
• •• ... ~ .... 
. •,·• ........... . 
Ftto omal•t 
·.· 
.. ··:· ..•••........... 
.•· 
.$ 6.00 
.... 
.$ 3.75 
.s 4.50 
.$ 4.50 
.$ 5.00 ' 
CoU~~rte Om•tet with Bacon 
~-
/ 
Scuso.e-ond Ham ..••.•.. ~ ••.•.... $ s. 95 
qg White Om.. . p 
•••••••• ~., ~. ~$ 5.95 i 
~--:-:·.·.·.·-:::;:::.·::::·?::\:::~=:/~:::r:·: 
... · 
~·::· ... :.\:- f·:;.;' 
• : 
~-· 
•• 
._.-. 
._.. . 
. ··-: •• :::: 
:;:.: .-:· '· 
-~-
) 
Turkey 
· Roost ·8"-f . 
--
.-.::>-
• • • • 
. . ,. . . . . 
_ ... 
~ ........ :;.·:-.. 
.. • • * • • 
:~::.·.::~. 
. . . . 
~ . . . . . . . •••••• 
Fingers Dinner .••••. • • • * • • 
Sirloin w/Fried Onions 
• • • • • • • • • • 
NEW HAVEN, CT 06510 
Souvloki Dinner 
Shrirnp Dinner 
• • • • • • • • • • •••• 
t 
• a • 
.s 7.50 
.$ 7.50 
.$7.50 
.$1.50 
.J 7.50 
.$ 8.50 
.$ 6.50 
.s 5.95 
·• FAX: (203) 785-0135 
Loof .•••. 
n Chips 
• • • • • • • 
• • • • • • • • • • ••• 
. . . . . . . . . . . . ' 
·. 
s 
~SA WEEK 
·' 
Perm 
Parm . . . . . . , . ' . 
• • • II 
l 
Ch .... on Hard Roll 
• • • • • • • • • 
........ • • 
.•••••.••••• ~---.-~,:-.. :{-:?-·"-... · 
On Sub 
• * •••••••• f .~ Al.~~ 
. ..•..••.. ~ J;.~~ 
• * •••••••• ~ ~.~i' 
i. 
Q Chicktn on Hard Roll 
.$ 5.99 
. ,--:-.. ~~:y .. 
·-: 
# 
Pcirm on Hard Roll 
• ' 
•· .·;u>.•,•,•' 
•'• 
.......... s 4~50 
. .. . . . .. . . . . . . . . .. . .... s 5.50 
• • * •• f 
• ••••••••• s 3.69 
9 • 
• .s 3.00 
Grill-... c· h--· 
s 2 9"" 
.~ 
~ ~~ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . , 
$ 4 50 
·"'! , ·.·. Gn'll-"' C ......... · . .aa.. "'omato 
S 3 .. 0 
.':"::.:~~,::. r ·.·. 
tnJ 
,..,... WJJn •• 
• • t 
t ••. ••• t 
.t~ 
$ 3 50 
... ,. .... . 
. ,_;.:-
-:-:-: 
-:::-. . 
• · • 
~ t< Gnlled CheeM with Baton .•••••..••• $ 3.99 
... ,,,, Grilled Ch_. with. Hom .••..••.••• ··.$ 3.99· 
·; .. 
-. . . . . . . . 
eotrBura-r 
Hombu;g., , l'flffa ... nd""'i,... ~ 
..._ tlow' 
.s .4.25 
.$ 5.50 
.s 6.00 
.s 5.00 . 
• $ 6.50 
·~•- 2 ·5··o 
,:, 
1r""ca '~lt ....................... ~ AJ.~() 
filet 'of Sol• •••• f •••• •· • • • • • • • •••• $ 4.50 
o.e.. .................. 
J--~- ••• • 
Dog 
•• * ~ ~ •• « ••• ~ •• .• ~ 
w.fl· flly ~--
.•. " .............. , .................. ' ~- ••• ' .•• -
•••••. ,.,..,..,..w ........ - ''.'J •• " ••••• ·····-NNNo 
SaiCJd 
Salad 
$clod 
• • • • • .$ 3.95 
• $ 4,25 
.$ 3.99 
.$ 4.95 
.. . .,,_ ...... t:········ • • 
...... j 
- ~ ~
-~ ~~·-· · •••••••• 
d' 
.·.·.· 
• .,: .F 
, ·:::_:· .:.;.-::./ -.• 
••• .. f 
-1) 
~ • ·--:. ... ·: .. . .. * • • • • • • • 
.... •.• ....... '::.: ·z· .. ,. .. ·~.. . .... ~_o(ou'o~ •••••• ~· w•' •... •,•,w.•.• ·-· ·.• 
·::·: 
....... ' 
• . 
• • • * .............. ....... : ••• $ 5.00 
• , .•••• ' •• 4 ••••••••••• .••••••• $ 5.00 
It . • 
' .$ 5.00 
... ' ................ ' .... s 5.00 
;So lad 
Soled 
Beef 
. ~ ••..••..• $ -5.50 
•••••• f ••••• 
' •••• t ............. * ••• ' ••• $ .5:.50. :-. 
41 
.. s 5.~50 
••••••
- ........... 41: .$ 5~50 
it • 
fl-
411 
A 
f: 
• •• • 
• .$ 6.00: 
• ; ~ .... , ..... :' ..••. - .. $ 6.00 
,, 
.. -· • 
-~ ~ ......... --~ ~.()() 
~,.... • .,,..,." 
{ 
-:--
,,, 
--~· .......... ~;.,.-:..- ~-~ .. -.-... -.. -..... -;-.-;-;-, . 
..,~. 
............ ·:!10 ... 
~() . } . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . • . . .•.. $ 5.25 
•• ' ....... « ••• .••••• $ 5.25 
. ' . " ., . 
.. .... -. ..... ""•· ... ..:.,.. .... 
_ .... 
Club . . .. . ' . . • • • • •• • • • • • • • 
.Club 
B.L.t Club 
• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • .. . . . . . 
Hamburger Club • • • • . • • . . • 
Cheeseburger Club •.•••.•. 
Chicken Salad Club 
Tuno Ctub · • ~ ••.••• ·. . •••.. 
()r Cold wndwiches 
Sub or Hotd R()ll 
• • ... ' . 
.$ 5.75 
.s 5.50 
.s 5.75 
~ ••• ,. ' ...... f ••••• •••• •••••• $ 4. 72 
• . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 4.-72 
• , •••••• « •••••••••••• -~ ~.jr:Z 
mt • • • ~ . • • ·• • • • • . • . • . • . • . • . • • $ 4. 72 
• ........ * ••••••• - ........ s 4.72 
•..•. ' "- .................... $ 4. 72 
!Liverw-urst 
-~ ...................... $ 4. 72 
. .............. -..... s 5.66 
• • • • • • • ••.••••••••• $ 5.66 
Chicken Porm .••..•••.....•••..•. $ 5.66 
• ! Spicy Chicken ..•.•.••••.••.••..•• $ 5.66 
' }Meatball • t •••••• , : ••• It ••••••••••• s 5.66 
• I SGusoge ond Peppers· .•••••••.••... $ 5.66 
j • 6 
... . • - .I t , 
ft , ~~--
$ 5 66 
<. 
0 ,- , ,,do 'oW~• •••V 
._.JII 
•••••••••••••••••• -
-:-~:-~:_.,.:-.,..:~:;,-:;;; •.. ~ 
·:-:-::-:-:·: 
• :·: :'i'' 
•,.A> •••• 
""' ......... 
·,..-;.-.., .. 

