Publication date: 12/68
Volume 2, Issue 5

**Giggling In The Teeth of Death**
**Author: Paul Moore**
**Page number(s): 8**

8 1 The New Journal ! December 8, 1968 
Giggling In The Teeth 
of Death 
by Paul Moore 
Marjorie Kellogg, Tell Me That You 
Love Me, Junie M oon. New York; Farrar, 
Straus and Giroux, 1968. 216 pp. 
The house was hollow. The banyan tree 
shed its leaves carelessly, and shingles fell 
freely from the roof. High above the front 
yard a scruffy old white owl kept watch. 
Sidney Wyner, the slob next door, was 
clipping his hedge when the freaks drove 
up. Staring out the mucky windows of the 
broken-down taxicab were the three for-
mer patients, their eyes gleaming happily. 
Arthur was the first to jump out of the 
car, incredibly excited; jerking first left, 
then right, like a busted butterfly. Arthur-
the contorted jumble of arms and legs, 
always screwing up his face into a thou-
·sand popping expressions. Bawling end-
lessly, he was the most gutless of the three, 
confining his thoughts to a fantasy world 
of sexual conquest. Arthur, skinny-legged 
Arthur, pulling his twisted hair out of his 
head, thinking his world was falling 
around him, that he was· drowning in a 
sea of dread. 

Next Warren, fat and lazy Warren. 
Mouth always spouting orders, beard 
dotted with dribbling spit, Warren talked 
to keep himself busy, to rebuild his sanity. 
Warren the hunter, spending countless 
days grubbing for straight and flashy 
friends to show off to his fellow monsters. 
The master flatterer, a con man with 
paralyzed legs, a homosexual. 

Junie Moon was the last of the three 
and the ugliest in a close race. No acro-
batics for her. Junie Moon stepped 
gingerly out of the taxicab, holding her 
head high. Junie Moon, the sweet and 
stupid name for the charmer with the 
messed-up face and stringy dirt-brown 
hair. Frail as a ragdoll, her face no regular 
kind of ugly-a red gash for a nose, two 
crooked slits for eyes, broad bloody steaks 
drawn across her face. The rest of her just 
as sad, her hands naked red stumps, 
tender and torn. No fingers. Her mouth 
a thin line across a face ripped with tears 
of tissue, eyes like tiny bullets of terror. 
Junie Moon is stately. 

The new home for Arthur, Warren and 
Junie Moon, next door to Sydney's, was 
all falling down. The steps were crum-
bling. The windows had been broken 
months ago. The yard was a mess of 
sticks and rocks left by the kids before 
the house was boarded up. But none of 
the three noticed . . . Arthur threw 
Warren into his chair and they wheeled 
up the cement steps. What a paradise. A 
beautiful big tree in the middle of the 
yard- Warren noticed that. So what if 
the gate was rusty and the front door 
stubborn? Junie Moon was chattering 
madly and cracking dirty jokes. Arthur's 
arms and legs and hands and everything 
flying in different directions. Warren as 
Caesar in a wheelchair, ignoring Junie 
Moon's caustic tongue and yelling orders 
to everyone, telling them what's for din-
. ner and what their jobs are. 

Arthur, Warren and Junie Moon moved 
in to live in an "odd juxtaposition of love 
and horror." Love in ragged and torn 
faces, gimpy bodies and naked minds. But 
where is the love in horror? How can a 
beggar giggle, how can a cripple laugh 
a real laugh? 

Neither Arthur nor Warren nor Junie 
Moon could go outside without being 
thrown onstage. Walking down the street 
Paul Moore, a senior in Yale College, is 
editorial coordinator of the Yale Daily 
News. 
became an endless trial of loneliness and 
pain. Children laughed and pointed, and 
parents tried to curb their emotions. Un-
wanted, untouched, their friends were 
either professionals paid to be sympathetic 
or other lonely people. 

Living together in the old and shaky 
house was their idea. To leave the hard 
starch and callous hospital was a gamble, 
to test the monster outside. Away from 
the home of the past, the house of heart-
ache, weakness and fear, where "phantom 
pains" sap one's sanity and cloud one's 
dreams. They left the hospital more on 
mutual daring than heavenly expectation. 
But when they reached their house on 
the edge of town, it was finer in its torn 
condition than the hospital with all its 
plastic. 

· 
Although there were major battles over 
who did the dishes and who slept on the 
porch, Arthur, Warren and.Junie Moon 
knew they were needed. In the hospital, 
everyone had learned to look at each other 
without wincing. The rub in their rela-
tionships was a confusion of truth and 
fantasy. Warren could hardly stop talk-
ing about his rich and important "friends," 
and Arthur was captivated by his sexual 
fancies. But alone in the house, they 
needed honesty. Their idiosyncracies be-
came lovable instead of annoying. 

Soon, Arthur and Junie Moon were 
lovers, of a sort. Since they were on such 
a constant fever pitch, a lot of romance 
was generated by a word here and a word 
there. When Junie Moon first shook off 
her customary sarcasm, Arthur thought, 
"If I touch her, we will be blown to 
kingdom come." And when Arthur 
slicked back his hair, put on his clean 
flowered shirt and danced out the door 
to find a job, Junie Moon could hardly 
stand it: 

She heard his sobs and the water running in 
the bathroom and watched him go out the 
door again and down the path, his hair 
cotnbed and his shirt tucked in. She thought: 
his goddamned heroics are going to make 
me bawl. 

Their shells were so broken by tragedy 
that their insides showed no matter what. 
When Warren picked up a glamorous 
rich "girlfriend," the house became a 
palace. When Arthur was refused a job, 
the skies grew dark. The littlest cut was 
too much. 

But company can work changes. Junie 
Moon, always a toughie, was destined to 
be crusty and senile. She was the kind 
who would love but not talk about it, an 
obstinate bitch whose charm could in-
timidate the Devil, whose wit could 
conquer Rome. So Junie Moon became 
the leader, with the other two plodding 
after her like half-witted basset hounds. 
Both Arthur and Warren spent hours try-
ing to get Junie Moon to say yes. Arthur, 
because he was falling all over himself 
loving her. And Warren was destroyed if 
Junie Moon ignored his magic schemes. 

As the days passed and it became too 
cold for brownies and lemonade outside, 
even cool and pale Junie Moon started 
changing. The warmth of community 
overcame her cold, hard self. She became 
less and less like "an old shoe, an old 
aunt, or an old sister" and more and more 
like a living, loving woman. 

The interdependence was there and the 
love followed, slowly and surely. And 
you admit that once Julie Moon tells you 
that she loves you, the ball flies over the 
fence. And you're home free. 
I! 


TheY ale University Student Calendar Agency 
announces the publication of its 1969 calendar. 
Using original color photographs, this year's 
calendar is a work of art. 
It will be sold on campus by the Christmas gift 
book salesmen December 2 through December 9. 
Also available at the Associated Student Agency 
office in Hendrie Hall (165 Elm St.) 
price: $5, students: 4.50* 
Buy one for yourself and mail a couple to your 
friends for Christmas. 
Charge it to your Bursar's bill 
*Price includes mailing costs for gift calendars.