Publication date: October 2, 1975
Volume: nine
Issue number: one


**MASTHEAD**
- Editor in Chief: M.C. Panzer
- Managing Editor: Jonathan M. Winer
- Executive Editor: Robert Liechty
- Designer: Marla Schay
- Photography Editors: Richard Andelman, Pamela Steele
- Production Editor: Elizabeth Perle
- Advertising Manager: Joseph C.F. Lufkin
- Contributing Editors: Ron Roel, Stuart Rohrer, David Sleeper, Steven R. Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Editorial Staff: Mariko Masuoka, Rebecca Jones, Eloise Sanholtz, Joyce Evans, Susan Halpern, Ruth Sohn, Liz Hecht, Jacob Epstein, Julia Preston, Corby Seth Kummer
- Photography Staff: W. Wilder Knight, Dan St~mberg
- Production Staff: Sandy Ackerman, Rosemary Bray, Bruce Murray, Dennis Sasha, Nancy Harris, Bill Jacobs, Stephanie Lukes
- Advertising Representatives: Barbara Cohen, Susan Halpern, John Kalisky, Rami, Joshua Winer


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**

Ion-A modem dialogue
Fear and Loathing at the Yale Co-op - Rebecca McCormick, Dennis Shasha
The Toll Road To Total Freedom - Nancy Harris
one on one: short and to the point (as always); books.a movie, a poem.
The ballad of George - Bobo Largo
Mail/fee mail


**Title: Ion-A modem dialogue**
**Author: Missy Panzer**
**Page number(s): 2**

Amateur romantics coming home to 
Cambridge England thumbed a ride 
from a beat up MG. " Don't mind the 
equipment, ifs just a project rm 
working on,·· the driver said. 

"Oh. ·· Climbing in carefully one 
romantic guessed along. ''Are you an 
engineer?"' 

" I work with engineers. We've 
invented a machine that generates 
negative ions. It gives the air around a 
slight negative charge and has a strange 
effect on the people nearby.·· 

"Oh yeah?"' The driver nodded to 
their open dgarette packs. The roman-
tics smiled and handed one over. 

"Thank you. We found that a 
negative charge, a small one, makes 
people happy. At the office, when we 
tum on the machine secretaries start 
singing, people talk to one another, 
everybody smiles. lfs marvelous. 

"And a slight positive charge en-
forces depression. You find positive 
charges near tall buildings surrounded 
by concrete where tires grind in the 
streets. They have done studies on 
people who work in sky scrapers. They 
aren't very happy.·· 

"So where do you find negative 
ions?·· 

"The ideal, natural, negatively 
charged spot is near a waterfall or 
stream where water flows over rocks.·· 

"You mean there's a chemical reason 
for liking waterfalls? .. 

"It's all in the ions. Germans blame 
all kinds of things on a hot wind called 
das Fohn. Surgeons won't operate, 
committees won't meet, the crime rate 
goes up and suicides increase. That 
wind you see is full of positive ions. 
The same wind in Africa is called the 
Sirocco. But we·ve got the cure, the 
Happy Box, a negative ion generator.·· 

.. and if you're feeling depressed-·· 

" But it's not perfected. That will take 
a lot of time and money ... ·· 

Missy Panzer claims this conversation 
really took place. 



**Title: Fear and Loathing at the Yale Co-op**
**Author: Rebecca McCormick and Dennis Shasha**
**Page number(s): 3-4**

Fear and Loathing 
at the Yale Co-op 
by Rebecca McCormick 
and Dennis Shasha 
the history 
The strike was set for Wednesday. 
On Tuesday, September 2, students 
jammed the Yale Co-op, eage~ to buy 
books without having to cross picket 
lines. The stri~ke never took place, but 
last minute neg()(iations preventing its 
occurence culminated a series of events 
that effected a major change on the 
structure of the store. 

Low patronage refunds, Co-op board 
reorganization, and board member dis-
satisfaction with Willoughly, general 
manager of the Co-op, falling in rapid 
succession, have upset the store admin-
istration's stability. A multitude of 
.employee grievances set the stage for 
and created a union which was ready to 
call a strike four months after 
being chartered. The Co-op's turbulent 
recent history is uniquely uncharacter-
istic of the store's past. 

The Co-op, originally the Yale 
Cooperative Association, was incor-
porated in I 892 with headquarters in 
Connecticut Hall. By purchasing mem-
bership, people in the Yale community 
became eligible for lower prices on 
basic supplies. In the period from 1892 
to 1929, the store moved from 
Connecticut Hall to High Street, to Elm 
Street, and finaJiy to York Street. But in 
the early 1950's, Co-op management 
was concerned about its York Street 
leases-made with three different non-
Yale landlords-
which would expire in 
1977. At this time, Yale was having 
trouble finding tenants for the commer-
cial space in the Stiles-Morse complex, 
and offered it to the Co-op. The lease 
on the store property provides the only 
official connection between the Co-op 
and the university. 

Still, the Co-op has always had a 
deep-seated spiritual connection with 
Yale, extending even to a Harvard-Yale 
rivalry. A 1960 Co-op newsletter 
defended the relatively small size of 
Yale's Co-op compared with Harvard's 
by saying: "The membership of the 
Haarvard Coop is large, but the average 
Harvard man is more reckless in 
expenditure than the average Yale 
man ... " 

The Co-op board appointed Charles 
Willoughby to his post in 1951 . This 
board in theory is the chief decision-
maker of the enterprise, and represents 
the interests of all Co-op members. (i.e. 
students, faculty, and non-faculty Yale 
staff, currently about 20,000 in all). But 
during most of the time since 
Willoughby's appointment, the Co-op 
board did neither. Until the late 60's, 
the board rubber-stamped Wil-
loughby's decisions, according to some 
present board members. 

Comprised mostly of Yale faculty and 
alumni, the board became something of 
an old Blue fraternity. It met three times 
a year at Mory's and accomplished 
little. Students joined the board by 
nomination and remained through their 
college years. The board reserved the 
right to take them on or to appoint other 
"representatives .. as it chose. 

In the early 60's, a special action of 
the board disallowed even these nomina-
tions. The rationale for this procedure 
seems to have been that the store was 
doing well, and there was no reason for 
non-managers to intrude with its 
management. 

Willoughby's background might also 
have had something to do with the 
board's behavior. Willoughby graduated 
from Yale in 1945, an undergraduate 
football star and a member of the then 
prestigious St. Anthony Hall. After 
ending military service as a 1st 
Lieutenant, he joined Macy's training 
program, coming to the Co-op soon 
after. 

Nevertheless, the halcyon days ended 
in the late 1960's when for a variety of 
reasons the Co-op's fortune took a tum 
for the worse. For instance, the May 
Day demonstrations and early student 
exodus left the Co-op with a month· s 
surplus student-oriented inventory. 

In 1969, money returned to members 
as their patronage refund was $329,000; 
in 1971,$63,000. Recognizing a need 
for reform in the store's administrative 
procedures, elements within the board 
convinced the other members that board 
membership should be determined by 
elections; the first was held in 1973. 

the union 
In November 1974 some employees 
at the Yale Co-op decided to or~anize a 
union local. GraduaJly their grievences 
had accumulated. Dissatisfaction cen-
tered around issues such as wages, 
supervisory policy. job classification 
and promotion, a grievence procedure 
and job security. 

Wages at the Co-op were low, 
ranging from $2.15 to $4.40 per hour, 
according to Jan Wi~ben , now Vice-Pre-
sident of the union local. Approximate-
ly 60 out of the 150 employees earned 
less than $2.25 per hour. Cashiers and 
maintenance personel were the lowest. 
paid employees, and tended to be 
part-time or unskilled workers. But 
more experienced employees in higher 
positions frequently earned little more-
as in the case of Helen Migliore, now 
President of the union local, who was 
earning $2.40 per hour after three years. 

Dissatisfaction over wages was re-
inforced by the disparity between the 
salaries of an average employee and a 
supervisor·or manager. Jan Wieben 
wrote, in a letter to the Yale Daily 
News, " The vast majority of the 
workers make around and under $5,000 
per year, while a small circle of 
management figures, Mr. Willoughby 
included, make salaries ran~ng from 
$20,000 to $35,000 a year. That such a 
discrepancy in pay should exist in a 
store that calls itself a co-op is 
abominable. ' • 

Wages were only part of the picture. 
Some employees felt frustrated because, 
in the words of Wieben, the Co-op was 
" an inefficient, badly run operation," 
lacking a clear, coherent policy. " You 
really couldn't find out what the poli~y 
was • • said Susan Wong, now recording 
secr~tary of the union, because it varied 
" from department to department, from 
supervisor to supervisor." Because there 
were too many supervisors for the 
number of employees, a worker could 
be reprimanded for incorrectly following 
a procedure that had never been 
sufficiently explained. 

Related to this was the lack of a clear 
and impartial policy of promotion. 
·'People would work for years and 
years ... and never get promo~ ." Wong 
explained, ··and then they'd bring in 
someone from the outside.' ' Some 
employees claimed that there was . . 
deliberate discrimination on the bas1s of 
race and sex. According to the Co-op 
workers' newsletter. ''In the course 
book department, only women are hired 
for office worlc and only men are hired 
for floor work. In reality ·these jobs may 
overlap quite a bit ... but the significant 
thing here is that women are paid less 
than men in this department due to 
rather arbitrary classifications ... In 
general, manageme!lt jobs were limited 
lO white men, while the majority of the 
employees were women of diverse 
ethnic origins. 

Another central cause of discontent 
was the lack of job security and a 
grievance procedure. As long as there 
was no way to express complaints 
without fear of reprisals, workers felt , 
no changes could be make. 1be Yale 
students who formed the Yale Commit-
tee to Suppon the Co-op Workers group 
in February 1975 agreed: "What worker 
is going to push a grievance too hard in 
the face of management's unlimited 
right to fire her and replace her with 
one of New Haven's numerous un-
employed?'' 

The union drive began when a group 
of workers, meeting infonnally at each 
other's homes, decided to ask the 
Amalgamated Clothing Workers of 
America (AFL-CIO) to help them 
build a union at the Yale Co-op. The 
umon, one of the two that organJZe 
retail clerks, sent Lany Magarik, a 
fuJI-time ACW A organizer, to advise 
the workers. The initial diffkulties were 
substantial. Many workers were apa-


**(Page 4 is missing from the provided text.)**


**Title: The Toll Road To Total Freedom**
**Author: Nancy Harris**
**Page number(s): 6**

**(Content missing from provided text.)**


**Title: one on one: short and to the point (as always); books.a movie, a poem.**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 12**




**Title: The ballad of George**
**Author: Bobo Largo**

The ballad of George 
True art which all minstrals mutter 
Finds gold inspiration in the gutter. 
The Muse called Garbagia, 
Sotted drunk's Beatrichia, 
Gives sparks to the words that I utter. 
o·er high thoughts my brain box has 
run, 
O;.:!r the infinite like rays in the sun. 
Yet it's no weary boast, 
To offer a toast, 
To George the magnificent Egg-man. 
George served eggs in the college of 
Trumbell, 
Kept room in Calhoun, a large double. 
But when stars cut the night, 
He was gone out of sight, 
J.le·s a rumble who funnels steam 
tunnels. 
Twas love he could find underground, 
A love in the crisp air not found. 
A love mightily blest, 
A love fonned in the quest, 
Of a sound sodden dank tunnel round. 
An ideal, say some, must be pure; 
For pedestrians it's a Ford quite sure. 
And Epicurians remark, 
A full banquet's their ark; 
Dull bOors don't give grunts o·er their 
lure. 
And George, well you know his pleasure. 
Tis true it's a rather queer measure. 
··res not much, .. says he, 
Yet we·re all pleased to see, 
He's found substance in platonic treasure. 
.. Tis a rub,"· adds he, "by my grace, 
r· ve been scattered and bothered and 
By blue-suited guards, 
chased, 
Those flat-forehead nards: 
The distain, low cripples, of our race. 
By my tup, aren't those words tOQ harsh? 
" Bless my gall, guess my temper wains 
Tis a pity to VJatch, 
sparse. 
As they snap to the latch. 
Damn them all, they bum red my arse. 
Wily George turns to his tunnel of 
night, 
His broad shoulders betray him no 
He's the wizard renown, 
fright. 
He knows life unsidedown. 
He· s the Magi who in darkness sees 
light. 
Nearing end Muse, but carry this note. 
Tie these lyrics as a wheel of ten 
spokes. 
I know George is rough, 
But remove biting guff, 
Which stabs beauty so strange and 
remote. 



**Title: Mail/fee mail**
**Page number(s): 2-3**

''I'd like a new post office box, 
please,·· said Albert the postaphiliac as 
he took out the five dollars now 
necessary to support a junk habit he 
once satisfied for free. The money had 
been hard to come by, true, but Albert 
knew that very soon he would be 
receiving anew those familiar offers 
from magazines, catalogues, charities, 
and religious organizations, those bills 
from the local co-operative store and the 
telephone company, but most of all, 
those batches of gushing sentiment and 
practical hints on housekeeping that 
made up the voluminous letters of his 
most dearly beloved Allison. 

Allison's letters were to the average 
letter what Niagra is to a leaky faucet. 
She was brimming with words, sen-
tences, paragraphs, histories, epics. 
Once she took a roll of toilet paper and 
wrote on the entire length of it and 
mailed it. It took Albert amost a month 
to finish it. 

But her messages had always made 
Albert happy and that was what 
counted,. not the number of words it 
took to do so. 

So Albert laid down the money for 
the post office box and waited for the 
usual two to three day delay as he 
always had in the past. By the third day 
he was in agony, but finaJiy two letters 
came in. He ripped them open. 

The first was made up to look like a 
telegram. It said, "You may have 
already won $1 0,000, · · and went on 
from there. Albert threw it away. He 
wasn't in the mood. The second one 
was pink. ''Thank god,·· he said. " It 
must be Allison ... But the letter was 
short, covering barely half of one page. 
" Dear Harold,·· it read. Tve been 
thinking an awful lot about what you 
said to me, and l"ve decided that you·re 
absolutely right about virginity and I'm 
sorry I put up such a fuss at the beach 
house, but really you weren ·r going 
about it very well. I hope you do better 
next time. Willingly yours, Bertha.·· 

"My name's not Harold;· Albert 
thought. "But who's Bertha? .. A 
(continued on page 15) 



**The Yale Co-op**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
a-ge 4 
The size of the board was reduced from 
thirty to fifteen. For the first time, 
students were permitted to become 
members of the executive committee 
where most of the Board's decisions are 
made. 


Current board members admit that 
after the onset of economic difficulties, 
some board members wanted to dismiss 
Willoughby. They noted that while the 
store's sales had increased six-fold since 
his appointment, the dollar value of the 
patronage refund remained the same or 
even decreased. Also, Willoughby did 
not have a reputation for mixing well 
with his employees. 


That does not seem to have changed. 
Most employees whom we talked to 
said that they hadn"t seen Willoughby 
for a few months. His office is topo-
graphically the highest in the Co-op, 
located on the top of a two floor 
stairway, giving some the impression 
that he wants to place himself as far as 
possible from the general flow of the 
store's employees. 


However, some of the economic 
problems of the Co-op are outside the 
Co-op's control. One is the general 
economic condition of the country. 
Another is that since the "Fairness in 
Lending .. law, the store may no longer 
give different patronage refund rates for 
people who charge their puiChases and 
for those who pay cash. This has led to• 
a much larger use of charge cards, 
which, besides generating far more 
paper work, has forced the Co-op to 
finance its customers during the weeks 
before being paid, without compensa-
tion. Third, the Co-op counted on two 
new colleges to support its expanded 
facilities but these never materialized. 


· Interestingly, the Co-Op makes money 
on items that it sells as a department 
store, and loses money in services to 
members. For example, in 1973-74, the 
Co-op lost $100,000 on books, $40,000 
on records, stationary, room fittings and 
related items and earned $209,000 on 
the store's top floor where it sells 
clothes, sports equipment, umbrellas 
and the like. Members generally buy 
books, records, stationary and so on, 
not top floor items. These figures 
suggest that the store is run for its 
members and supported by outsiders, 
who receive no patronage refund for the 
60% of sales that they generate. 


Course books are the Co-op's biggest 
money losers. Since pre-registration is 
no longer required, the Co-op orders 
books by professor·s estimates. They 
tend to overorder and the Co-op must 
then return surplus books. 


In 1973, for example, the Co-op 
purchased $900,000 worth of books 
before the fall semester and subsequent-
ly found a $300,000 surplus. On those 
books, the Co-op had to pay the freight 
both ways and, in some cases, to pay 
the publishers for the privilege of 
returning the books. 


The issue which most antagonized 
some members of the board to 
Willoughby was the Co-op's expansion. 
They didn't believe the projections he 
made justified the move and until now 
they have been right. Although Co-op 
East generates slightly more than half of 
<he store's sales, its contribution to the 
store's profits is minimal. Moreover, the 
expansion into Co-op East costs the 
Tit~ N~w JOfUifQ//October 2, 1975 
Co-op between 9. 75% and 13% annual-
ly in interest charges on the $200,000 
loan which financed the expansion. 


Although no one seems to have made 
an issue of it, some current bOard 
members note that t:1e Co-op has more 
supervisory people than it needs. 
Wellsley Arnold, the Co-op's controller, 
affirms that there are approximately 30 
(continued on page 14) 


**The Yale Co-op Unionization**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

thetic or afraid. "It is a difficult task to 
convince people that conditions they are 
used to after many years aren't any 
good for them," wrote Lou Pellegrino, 
now treasurer of the union local, in a 
workers' newsletter. Many workers and 
the union organizers soon sensed 
hostility towards the union on the part 
of supervisors and management. "They 
had these people scattered around," 
remembers one Co-op workers, "and if 
you were caught talking to anybody in 
~e union they would make their 
presence known. They literally threw 
people out." Wong recals the anti-union 
caveats of some supervisors, "You"Jl 
loose all your pension money, they'll 
make you go on strike, they'll tell you 
what to do.'' 


Nevertheless, by January 3, 1975, a 
majority of Co-op employees, excluding 
security guards, main office workers 
and supervisors, signed cards stating 
that they wished to be represented by 
the ACW A as their bargaining agent. 
The ACW A then asked the Co-op 
Corporation to recognize its status by 
OleaOS of a card check through an 
impartial third party. The Co-op 
refused, judging that it did not "believe 
that a majority of our employees would 
wish ~our union to represent them. ·' 


Many Board members felt that an 
election by secret ballot would be the 
most equitable way to decide the issue. 
Union leaders later judged that ''a 
card-check recognition would have 
avoided the division, bitterness, dis-
ruption and delay of a typical manage-
ment anti-union campaign." 


Following this refusal, the ACWA 
petitioned the National Labor Relations 
Board, (NLRB) for a representative 
election, while the two parties agreed on 
the 6th of March as the election date. 
Workers, union supporters and members 
of the Yale support group, during the 
period prior to the elections, held 
management responsible for a deliberate 
anti-union campaign. "We had 'captiv!! 
audience' meetings where the anti-union 
people would come to the fore and fire 
questions at us,·· one worker said. 


Another referred to anti-union propa-
ganda passed out and displayed on 
bulletin boards at the Co-op: "It was 
three pages of misleading questions like, 
'Would you lose your personal 
freedom?" ' A third recalls, "People 
were told various things. One woman 
was told she surely would be fired if 
she joined the union. We never 
brought any cases, but we had a Jot of 
small instances that together made it 
like ... we weren't proceeding completely 
freely. ·· This view was supported by the 
students in the YCSCW who observed 
conditions at the Co-op and wrote: "'We 
have found that discussions among 
workers have come to be conducted in a 
climate of fear. Employees have been 
denied rightful benefits once manage-
ment suspected their union sympathies. 
Some have been followed to lunch, 
others have had their conversations 
eavesdropped, their jobs threatened. 
Meanwhile, management has never 
informed employees of their legal right 
to a union.·· 


Many workers believed that these 
tactics were determined by guidelines 
presented to the board by the head of 
the Corporate Relations Committee, 
Georgia Nelson, in the presence of 
members of the YCSCW. 


Robert Sarason, member of the 
group, explained that the guidelines, 
which closely resembled those of an 
earlier campaign to oppose the unioniza-
tion of Yale University employees, were 
basicaJJy a list of do's and don'ts in 
dealing with unions, and specified 
actions such as the "captive audience .. 
meetings complained of by some Co-op 
workers. Sarason went on to say that 
Georgia Nelson had "informed the 
board while the YCSCW was there that 
she had conferred with Leonard Marcus 
(Director of Employee Relations at 
Yale). When asked about this at the 
meeting she said that it was purely an 
advisory role and Leonard Marcus had 
no direct involvement. '' 


This brings up the question of the ties 
between the management of the Yale 
Co-op and Yale University, specifically 
in terms of the alleged anti-union drive. 
Sarason told us that Larry Magar.ik, the 
union organizer, said that a closed 
meeting between Marcus and Willough-
by had taken place, but stressed there is 
no proof of any formal or official 
connection between the University and 
the Co-op. Rather, he, along with the 
Co-op workers we talked with, empha-
sises the unofficial, informal links 
between the two: "Five members of the 
university administration, top, heavy 
administrative types, including the 
budget director, are on the Co-op 
Board. Also, in the bylaws of the Yale 
Co-op, it ways that if the Co-op goes 
out of business, its money will go to the 
university. We found it very interesting 
that Yale University was going to be the 
recipient and not the members or some 
other charitable organization." 


It is largely because of this link, 
official or no, between the Yale Co-op 
and the Yale community, that the action 
of Yale students in the YCSCW and the 
Yale religious ministry had an effect. 
The campus ministry issued a statement 
during the election campaign supporting 
the workers· right to a union. The 
student group initiated a number of 
actions during this period, which 
included a picket of a Board meeting on 
the 4th of February. and an appeal to 
the board to insure that the workers 
would not be intimidated. 


The election was eventually a victory 
(continued on pag~ 14) 


**Toll Road to Total Freedom**
**Author: Nancy Harris**
**Page number(s): 6**

ToU Road to Total Freedom 
by Nancy Harris 
1948-Pacific. A Japanese shell penetrates the hull 
of the Navy destroyer and explodes within four feet 
of Commander L. Ron Hubbard. He receives injuries 
for which he is officially pronounced dead over an 
eight minute period. Shell shocked, blind and 
paralyzed, he perfects the principles of what will 
become Scientology while miraculously effecting his 
own self-cure. 


1975-New Haven. A small suite above the Church 
St. MacDonalds. A pleasant smi lin~ ~irl iumos to 
offer the guest book. The wall behind her is papered 
with hand scrawled "Success Stories.·· On the facing 
walt, near hts portratt in a yachtmg cap, hangs 
correspondence from Hubbard himself. He sends his 
congratulations to the newborn New Haven mission 
and teases, " have you pulled in any Yale boys yet?" 


A world map bristles with pins designating the 40 
major churches and 200 missions. Six people sit facing 
a blackboard in a crowded cubicle and listen to the 
free introductory lecture. 


A bookseller aJ the N.Y. GJUJrdian's office peddles the most basic of forty odd volumes. 
Dianetics is the book thaJ most Scientologists claim revolutionized their lives. 


N. Y .C., Martinique Hotel. An air of commerciality 
drapes the bleak and bustling second floor home of the 
Guardian·s Office, the main nerve of the New 
York operation. Eager receptionists hover around 
newcomers. Their smiles fade with suspicion at the 
sight of cameras. There are no photographs, no 
interviews granted by a scientologist without the OK 
from the Guardian's Office. 


Scattered students of Scientology remain in the 
Academy during the lunch break, hunched in pairs 
over black consoles called E-meters. One clutches two 
tin cans, the other monitors the E-meter"s sweeping 
needle as his partner responds to questions about his 
headache. On long tables, little clay figures squat like 
bizarre Mayan idols, enigmaticaJiy labelled ''table,"· 
"chair, .. "reactive mind,·· " Man becoming free.·· 


Uptown, New York. A chicly dressed twenty-ish 
crowd with name tags tacked to Diors circulates at a 
Celebrity Center party. The electric bass and stamping 
feet from the band upstairs filter down to the thickly 
carpeted office of the director. This is one of the two 
Scientology centers designed for special treatment of 
the elite. Stunning, elegant and poised, the directress 
turns to us. "I tried psychology, group gropes, primal 
scream, TM, Yoga, mind control, the academic route, 
ancient philosophers, the Bible, Christianity and drugs. 
Scientology takes you further." 


Such is Scientology today. The posters have invaded 
New Haven. They won "t harangue you, like Sun 
Myung Moon·s disciples. Scientologists will tell you 
Scientology isn "t for everybody, only for those able 
to take the detailed path toward ful I personal 
realization and spiritual development-and who are 
willing to pay the $5,000 it costs to get there. 


Run as a tightly organized, self-perpetuating, 
lucrative bureaucracy, the group has sustained accu-
sations of racketeerism as well as quackery. Yet 
Scientology is expanding more rapidly than any other 
of the " modem" religions, claiming 10 million active 
members worldwide. And despite their reputation of 
hostile anti-press paranoia, most Scientologists inter-
viewed, especially those who had reached higher 
levels of spiritual training, seemed, if naively 
unquestioning, intelligent, alert, cheerful, and embar-
rassingly cooperative. They believe. 


In the church's rocky 25 year history, members of 
the group have been banned from England because, 
said British authorities, " The cult poses a potential 
menace to the well-being of its followers."· 


Scientologists have attempted to seek positions in 
Britain's NationaJ Association of Mental Health, have 
fought for ten years in U.S. courts against the t-ood 
and Drug Administration, and now continue to wage 
war against the AMA and psychiatric institutions, the 
CIA and Interpol, who condemn them as charljltans. 


To understand Scientology, one must be familiar 
with Dianetics-"discovered" in 1948 by Lafayette 
Ronald Hubbard. In his 400 page best-seller, 
Dianetics, The Modern Science of Mental H~alth , 
Hubbard outlines his "science of the mind,·· and 
claims "the hidden source of all psychosomatic ill and 
human aberration has been discovered and skills have 
been developed for their invariable cure.·· 


The basic principle of Dianetics is this: man is 
good. Our infinite potential, however, has been 
obscured by the accumulation of hidden injuries. Man 
has two minds, the analytical mind, a conscious center 
of awareness and identity; and the reactive mind, a 
repository of painful experiences. The analytical mind 
is an infallible computer which runs constantly, 
receiving and analyzing data, until the organism is 
knocked unconscious. Then the reactive mind comes 
( 



**Scientology: The New Religion?**
**Author: Unlisted**
**Page number(s): 7-9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
--
The New Journal/October 2, 1975 
out to play. According to Hubbard's teachings, "If 
ever there were a devil, he designed the reactive mind, 
the single source of all neuroses, psychoses, insanities, 
war and psychosomatic illnesses.·· When our 
analytical minds are on the blink, the reactive mind, a 
moronic tape recorder of each perception connected 
with the traumatic event, becomes a storehouse of 
·'pain and painful emotion·· that is resubmerged when 
consciousness is regained. These recordings are 
termed, in the Scientological argot, as engrams: the 
permanent trace left by a stimulus on the protoplasm. 
It remains in our reactive bank as recorded pictures 
just below our awareness. 

The following is a typical example, taken from 
Dianetics, of how the engram affects our lives: 
Therapy begins as the aberree holds a pair of tin 
cans attached to an E-meter. The auditor, a trained 
professional, asks the aberree a set of standard 
prescribed questions. The E-meter measures changes in 
electrical skin ·resistance, much like a simple lie 
detector. Scientologists describe the meter as a 
"space-age confessional aid, a sensitive electronic 
instrument designed to reflect, mirror-like, the Spirit's 
-hidden tensional wounds and encumbrances.'' Accor-
ding to Dianetic theory, mental thought -has electrical 
charge. Release of painful experience discharges 
jagged bolts of electricity, causing the E-meter needle 
to twitch violently. Areas of painful emotion, literally, 
"emotionally charged," are detected quickly by the 
E-meter, and the needle will float free in easy strokes 
when the engram has finally been released. Release of 
an engram has been described by scientologists as a 
sensation of vast relief, often accompanied by 
uncontrollable laughter. 

A woman is knocked down by a blow, 
rendered unconscious. She.is kicked and 
told she is a faker, that she is no good, that 
she is always changing her mind. A chair is 
overturned ... a faucet is running in the 
kitchen... 

The religion of Scientology expands dianetic 
principles to deal with man as a "being· ' or spiritual 
agent, whose optimum expression is infinite creativity, 
ability and awareness. This realized being is called a 
" thetan, · · who, at the highest possible disclosed level 
has transcended not only his matter, energy, 
space-time body, but has full control of this life and 
all previous ones as well. He has unlimited capacity 
for accomplishment now that the theta blocking_ 
limitations have been removed. 

Hubbard claims he fell into the intriguing notion of 
past lives accidently, through extensive empirical 
experimentation. During dianetic counselling he 
noticed that recollections of birth and pre-natal 
engrams did not produce relief in some patients. A 
man's throat pain persisted. In exasperation, Hubbard 
asked, " Well, do you remember something earlier? .. 
The man screamed "Yes! yes! .. He described a throat 
attack by a tiger in the year 8 B.C. Scientologists toy 
with the theory that maladies like arthritis may be 
compounded injury to one part of the body over many 
lifetimes. 

Even beginners have vivid past life recall. "The 
mind is composed of a series of uneraseable pictures, 
explains one woman, making a model with thumbtacks 
and paper clips (a dianetic technique towards 
understanding abstract concepts). "Past lives can be a 
very delicate subject. To be laughed at could cause an 
adverse effect.·· However, she wouldn't mind 
divulging her experience as an American Indian, 
because she "really dug it.·· She also remembers 
sliding out of the birth canal, and being blinded by 
lights. Another scientologist relates running into 
Napoleon, Christ and Moses in other lives. Hubbard 
pinpointed his person and place for every lifetime and 
then led an archeological expedition to uncover his 
then undiscovered Greek home towns. 

The engram would contain every possible perception 
occurring without her knowledge during unconscious 
ness. In the react1ve mmd: 
· 
the pain of the kick equals the pain of the 
blow equals the overturning chair equals 
the passing car equals the faucet... 

Later, this engram may be " keyed-in .. by any one or 
combination of the above actions, activating the 
engram and resulting in inexplicable pain or neurosis. 

In the case of this woman, while running the faucet 
she may hear a passing car, and will suddenly develop 
stomach pains and the sensation that she is no good. 

Even if a person has never been unconscious, 
knocked-out, blacked out, or under amnesia (sleep 
does not count), he may still have a rich bank 
of engrams. Do not forget the womb. According to 
Hubbard, it is a turbulent place. From the moment of 
conception, our cells are capable of recording 
engrams, even though the embryo hasn't the slightest 
approximation of a nervous system. Pre-natal engrams 
are easily acquired: " Mama sneezes, baby gets 
knocked ' unconscious.· Mama runs lightly into a table 
and baby gets its head shoved in. Mama has 
constipation and baby, in the anxious effort, gets 
squashed. Papa becomes passionate, and baby has the 
sensation of being put into a running washing machine. 
Mama gets hysterical, baby gets an engram. Papa hits 
Mama, baby gets an engram ... ·· 

In his dianetic examples, when Hubbard's women 
are not the frequent objects of beating, especially 
when pregnant, they are attempting abortions with 
kni!!in~ needl_es: . 
. 
It_ IS a scientific fa~t that ~rtion attem_pts are the 
most Important ~act?r m aberratl?n. The child on 
whom the abortton IS attempted IS condemned to hve 
with people ~e reactively knows to be_ murden:rs ... A 
large proport1on of allegedly feeble-mmded children 
are actually attempted a 
rt1on cases, w 
engrams 
placed them m fear, paralys1s or regress1ve 
palsy ... How many billions are spent on institutions for 
the insane and criminal because of attempted abortion 
done by some sex-blocked mother to whom children 
are a curse ... phys1olog1cal exam mat JOn o anyone w1th 
such a blockage w1ll demonstrate a phys1cal 
arrangement o t e gemta 1a or g 
s... 

Without realizing it, these engrams accumulate. 
They narrate our behavior, mind and body. Eyeglasses and the common 
cold are as much the mark of the aberree as violent 
schizophrenia. Any individual, however, may free 
themselves of engrams to become a "clear," enjoying 
greater health and higher I.Q. 

Labeled clay models are the Scientologist' s tool for 
conceptualizing abstractions and hurdling the ··bar· 
riers to learning.'' 


---

**Scientology: Organization and Practice**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

pageS 
is self-monitored by a check sheet. People study in 
pairs to reinforce the concepts before the final test. 
100% is the only passing grade. 

Scientology requires assimilation of hundreds of 
pages of complicated philosophy and speciaJized jar-
gon. For maximum absorbtion, Hubbard devised 
techniques to overcome "barriers in learning.·· 

The first barrier is "lack of mass .. - a confusing 
abstraction of subject matter that brings on physical 
pain, pressure and t.eadache while studying. Students 
must work out aJl new concepts in clay, creating 
"mental pictures with 'mass.·· They are aJso aided by 
demo kits, collections of paper clips and erasers, to 
physically grapple with new concepts. The 
most emphasized study block IS the m1sunders.t00d 
word. This poses a very real danger in the daily life of 
Scientologists. Many of those interviewed occasionally 
referred to a dictionary during the course of normaJ 
conversation. 

Scientology claims to enhance any world religion. 
Ministers, who wear roman collars, dispense dianetic 
theory and therapy rather than ritual. What then, puts 
the church in the church of Scientology? Aside from 
its tax exempt status, granted by a United States 
district court in l972, acknowledging the cult ac; a 
religious institution, the church comes from the 
traditional meaning of the word religion as "wisdom.·· 
Scientology (scio: to know, logos; thought- the art of 
knowing how to know) is described as a 
"pan-denominational applied religious philosophy 
which contains a remarkable system of effective 
techniques ... ·· 

It· s hard to separate the rei igion from the organization. 
They feed on each other. Everything in Scientology 
has been explicitly diagrammed by Hubbard. The 
administrative strengths and financiaJ success of the 
missions hinges on what Scientologists refer to as the 
··org Board.·· The Guardian's office sports an Org 
Board easily the size of a door, compactly plastered 

The New Jownal/Ocrober 2, 1975 
with all the officiaJ titles of every staff position, from 
book packer to director. There are seven divisions, 
twenty-one departments, all spiraling stepwise up to 
source: L. Ron Hubbard. Many scientologists 
remarked that "if the New York City government had 
an Org Board there would be no more confusion.·· 

Spiritual growth is attain~d in two channels, one of 
which is the processing route, where the devotee 
actually takes courses in an academy and works 
toward clear. One can also train to become an a~ditor, 
a skill which is valuable to the church. Students can 
finance courses while under contract to the church. A 
certain number of work hours pays for their training. 
Breaking the contract incurs a $5000 penalty. Salarie!> 
are based on productivity and training experience to 
prevent "high officials soaking the underlings,·· says 
Joyce Gaines, Assistant Director of Public Relations at 
the New York Guardian·s office. 

Scientology aims to build a civilization without 
criminaJity, insanity or war. Decreasing the number of 
severely aberrated persons involves special programs 
oriented towards aJcohol and drug abusers. Narconon, 
a nationaJly instituted drug program for the purpose of 
prevention of drug abuse, related criminaJity and 
rehabilitation, uses dianetic communication techniques. 
They boast 85 percent success with prison graduates 
remaining trouble free, at least during parole period. 
Except for a defamatory report, written by the head of 
the California Department of HeaJth, the program has 
been recognized as socially beneficial by several towns 
in California and Louisiana, and Mayor Moon 
Landrieu of New Orleans declared a "Narconon 
Week" last January. 

The first Dynamic principle of existence is : 
SurvivaL And the church has managed fairly well to 
metamorphose any public threats to their survival into 
speciaJ investigation projects and Jaw suits. In recent 
years, Scientology has filed over one hundred libel 
suits here and in England against AMA, Fairchild 
Publications, Delacorte Press, Washington Post, 

The E-mDI!r is the crux of Diant!tic therapy. Operating liu a simp~ lie-detector, 
say the £-meter 
helps detect engrams, hidden mental recordings of pain, and aid in their physical release. Before auditing, those 
with serious physical illness must first consult a mLdical doctor, but headaches and colds have been known to 
disappear during an auditing session. 



**L. Ron Hubbard: The Man Behind Scientology**
**Page number(s): 9**

And just who is L. Ron Hubbard? He should be 
recognized as an undisputed expert on the art of 
bureaucracy and closed systems. Starting with 
Dianetics, he has published over five million words on 
the subject in over forty titles. This includes a 
577 page dictionary 9f specialized terms, as well as a 
$300 set, Organization Executive Course. World 
operations are handled from his 320 foot yacht, 
Apollo, in the middle of the Mediterranean. 

Even if half the stories about him were taJse, he 
would still remain one of the fascinating.characters of 
modem society. Born Lafayette Ronald Hubbard in 
Tilden Nebraska, 1911 his first claim to fame was his 
ability to ride horse-back before he could walk. He has 
some engineering background and holds a PhD from 
the now defunct Sequoia University in California. 
Twice Hubbard was pronounced dead, though he has 
apparently refused to believe it. Ouring World War II 
he served in the navy, and is allegedly the direct 
inspiration for the character Mister Roberts. He is 
also the first person to release mankind's "granddaddy 
engram,·· incurred by the human race .. many, many 
centuries ago, probably in the form of a supersonic 
shot in the forehead, chest and stomach, incapacitating 
and reducing the size and function of the pineal 
gland.·· 

Hubbard supports his multimillionaire status on 
royalties and family inheritance. He gets no money 
from the church, and in fact, loaned the Organization 
13 million dollars of his own. 10 percent of 
Scientology's intake goes to the mother church in 
England and the rest is held in a reserve account. 

His written output is prodigious. Besides the five 
million words on Scientology, (many written at 
lightening pace on a special typewriter with keys for 
small words) he has chumed out over 15 million 
words of science fiction, screenplays, fiction and 
westerns. He is a certified contributor to over 90 
national magazines under pennames: Rene Lafayette, 
Tom Esterbrook, El Ron, Captain B.A. Northrup, 
Winchester Remington Colt. 

He has also been an explorer, undertaking an 
Alaskan and Caribbean expedition under the flag of 
New York Explorers club, and a third expedition in 
1966 to study Mediterranean archeology. Before 
the age of twenty four, he worked as a radio crooner, 
newspaper reporter gold miner and movie director. He 
was a stunt pilot. ''Whenever two or three pilots are 
gathered together around," records an aviation 
magazine, " ... you'll probably hear the name of Ron 
Hubbard mentioned, accompanied by such adjectives 
as 'crazy,' 'wild' and 'dizzy.' The flaming haired pilot 
hit the city like a tornado a few years ago and made 
women scream, and strong men weep by his aerial 
antics. He just dared the ground to come up and get 
him." 

Hubbard claims to have begun definitive research 
into basic axioms of dianetics in 1938, though some 
believe it was actually in 1947, the time of his injury. 
He published Dianetics in 1950, and founded the 
church of Scientology in 1952. Another book was 
published at this time, though its release was withheld. 
According to the story in the July 1952 issue of 
Science Fiction Advertiser .. Hubbard related that he 
had been pronounced dead for ei~ht minutes after his 
navy inJury, and during that time, ''received a 
tremendous inspiration, a great Message" which he 
must impart to others ... He sat at his typewriter for six 
aays ana mgnls ana nommg carne out-then Excaliber 
emerged. Excaliber contains the basic metaphysical 
secrets of the universe. Dianetics is based on one 
chapter of Excaliber:• 

" Whe n four of the first fifteen people who read 
E.xcaliber went insane," says the Science Fiction 
Advertiser, " Mr. Hubbard withdrew it and place it in 
a vault where it remains until now. Copies are released 
only on sworn statement to not permit other readers to 
read it. It contains data not to be rele:~c:ed during._Mr. 
page 9 


**Scientology in New York**
**Author: Luis Sroybnik**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
page 10 
Darby Simpson 
Joyce Gaines 
Church Disciples 
Helen Gettman is a blond stylish English woman in 
her early 40's. She is an OT VII and the executive 
director of the penthouse West End Avenue Mission. 
She started Scientology in 1966 though she had heard 
of it 4 years before but "wouldn't touch it because I 
had confused it with psychiatry.'' Previously she 
worked as a secretary, florist, and a poodle clipper. 
Her mother exckli~Md, • 'Oh no, not so~Mthing else!:' 
lJut now her mother is also a scientologtst. Geltman 
fondly kisses her three year old boy. explaining that 
she underwent special processing during her 
pregnancy, and that now motherhood contains no 
shouting or yelling, "/was much too severely 
aberrated to have a child previously." Marlcie is 
already a ~Mmber of the church, having given his 
consent at the age of 2 1/2. Nonverbal processing can 
include pets as well as toddlers, and Mrs. Geltman 
has processed her poodle. She considers Scientology 
as a way of life, but also as. her profession, " /don't 
work in Scientology to earn a living, Money is an 
energy flow but is not the important aspect. Some 
people spend 6 or 7 thousand doUars on a car, but 
what do they have? If they spent the same amount on 
themselves, they quadruple the worth. The song 
always goes through my head, 'On a Clear f!ay You 
Can See Forever,'" she contin~s. "Being clear is 
like standing on a mountain. There is nothing, no 
mass, around you. You feel causative and of use to 
others. Physically I'm in better shape, I upset my 
doctor with my perfect eyesight, and just had a 
wonderful experience with natural childbirth using no 
drugs.'' 


Mrs. Geltman' s husband is a millionaire who used 
to finance the Newport Jazz festivals. He also is OT 
VII and an intimate friend of Hubbard. She has never 
met Hubbard but corresponds twice a week. 
Darby Simpson is a striking young woman. She used 
to be a soap opera actress and stockbroker. Now she 
heads the New York Celebrity Center, the othu is in 
Los Angeles, having risen to the level of OT VII in a 
year and a half. 


A Celebrity Center is designed to process celebrities 
and professionals whose schedules are not accomo-
tklted by normal processing missions. They service 
such notables as Stan and Chick Corea, Karen Black, 
football player John Brodie, The Incredible String 
Band,andfour or five other top names whom the 
Church will not disclose as protection of privacy. 
Luis Sroybalk 
The New Journal/October 2, 1975 
Helen Geltman 
Miss Simpson, like many Scientologists interviewed' 
turned on to Scientology after reading Dianetics. She 
found that the book answered all her questions: • 'Why 
can't I expand? Why can't I have a successful 
relationship with a man? Why is there war? What is 
cancer? Why do I have a college education and end 
up r.s a typist? Why has God never helped?" 


As an OT VII, Miss Simpson has discovered the 
reasons the • • self' does not always operate at opti-
mum capacity, explaining that "Scientology only 
removes that which is suppressive to your 
own expansion, then there is no limit to what can be 
done. Acccmplish~Mnt is infinite. It differs from 
mysticism in having an actual technology." 


Tom Descher, for~Mr rock musician, current Cele-
brity Center official, commented that the levels had 
appealed to him, the fact that there was a step-by-step 
approach to Nirvana. "/ had goals," he continued, " I 
knew I was looking for freedom and ability, and I 
knew it was attainable but I didn't know how to get 
there from where I was. I was very skeptical about the 
whole thing, then the counselor told me I didn't have 
to believe any of it. That's what sold 1M.'' 


Luis Sroybnik, successful president of two flourish-
ing chemical firms, could have retired wealthy at age 
fifty. After half a century he wanted to examine his 
goals and decide on the next step. Excited by the pre-
liminary courses, he applied for Flag, the program on 
Hubbard's yacht, took a mini-student course, and as a 
result, decided he didn't want to retire and would in-
stead devote the principles of Scientological organiza-
tion to running his firm. He hasn't quite yet instituted 
an Org board, but now he ·'picks people for their 
enthusiasm.·· 


" I felt fulfilled and physically able before 
Scientology, but I just felt like doing more. I wasn't 
frustrated but/ didn't know what else to do. Now, I 
keep on wondering how much better can I feel?'' 


Joyce Gaines is a grade 0 class I auditor as well as 
working at the Guardian's offlCe. She used to be a 
chemical engineering major at Villanova. By her 
senior year, her life had dissolved. "/felt totally lost. 
my body was destroyed by four years of drugs, I was 
miserable, unhappy.'· A friend turned her on to the 
Dianetics and now it is her life. She is a mother and 
holds a position of tremendous responsibility within the 
organization. "I feel/ can crMte the type of life I 
want, I've got self-confidence and trust." 


Darby Simpson concludes. ' 'Scientology is not for 
everybody. We are not interested in the lower 
echelons. Dianetics is a present to those who areal-
ready making it and want to know if there is some-
thing else going on. It's to make the able more able," 
she cast a quick glance. • 'Able doesn't ~Man more suc-
cessful. Look it up in the dictionary, able means want-
ing to handle problems. Success, well, success is 
defined by th~ standards of society ... •• 


--- Page 11 ---

• 
TheN~ Journal/October 2, 1975 
page II 
\) Hubbard's stay on earth. and the secrets that not even 
Dianetics disclosed. The cost-$1,500.00." 


There is much that is awe-inspiring about 
Scientology: the enormity of its corporate structure, 
the breadth of disciplines explored, the minuteness of 
detail in explaining every conceivable physical or 
metaphysical phenomenon. Placebo or not, many of 
the dianetic techniques seem to have therapeutic value, 
not only to those helplessly flounderin~ but also to 
those happily functioning. Although ruhng echelons 
remain a mystery, on the franchised church level the 
administration is dedicated, sincere and ethical. No 
Nancy Harris is a sophmore in Davenport College and 
her favorite record is not ·'Stairway to Heaven.·· 
matter now fascinating, however, Scientology still 
reads like good science fiction. This is a case of a 
constructive system evolved from some very bizarre 
precepts in the guise of a scientific, technological 
approach to cosmic truth. 

Photographs by Dan Sternberg and W. Wilder Knight. 


**Elizabeth Taylor Grows Up**
**Author: Helen Glazer**
**Page number(s): 12**

page 12 
Elizabeth Taylor Grows Up 
There are worse ways. to spend six 
hours on a Greyhound bus, but I 
honestly can't recommend that you run 
out right now and buy £Iizabeth 
before the bookstores close. For $1 . 95 
it's a pretty good buy- 32 pages of 
photographs, and a hefty 607 pages of 
biographicaJ information including a 
detailed appendix of all her films and a 
one 
~c holarly 14 page index so you can 
look up your favorite parts. 


In fact Elizabeth is satisfying 
escapist readtng. While the mov1e fan 
magazine subject matter is on the trashy 
side, it's well written enough to be a 
guiltless experience. We are assembled 
here to learn the Truth about Elizabeth 
Taylor, though one is tempted to say 
this glowing account of the life and 
career of 'Mother Courage' perhaps 
omits details contrary to the thesis. 


lt's difficult to imagine what Shep..._ 
pard left out, since there's a wealth of 
trivia on every page. Everyone is named 
and identified, for instance the actresses 
who stood in for her in nude scenes and 
her current pets and their names. The 
author also pays careful attention to 
numerological details. You find out how 
much everything cost; her jewelry 
collection and charitable contributions 
are treated in detail, as is the budget for 
Cleopatra, just to prove once and for all 
• • I I • • I I I • • I I I I I I • • I I I I I 
that that disaster was not Ms. Taylor's 
fault. 


You think she's had a cushy life'? 
You think you've got problems? 
Elizabeth Taylor should just have your 
problems. So maybe no one ever applie!> 
superlatives like 'most beautiful woman 
in the world' to me. At least they don't 
call me " the only known survivor of a 
particularly virulent strain of staphylo-
coccus pneumonia.'' And if my boy-
friend's in Baltimore, well, romances 
survive ~rse obstacles. For instance, 
while CleojJatra was plunging 20th 
Century Fox millions of dollars into 
debt, Elizabeth fell deeply in love with 
Richard Burton, and their scandalous 
affair was "the greatest single news 
event of 1962 throughout the world,·· 
denounced by the Vatican and several 
U.S. congressmen. Now, how would 
you like that? Well, the Burtons are jus1 
folks like you and me. and they jusl 
wanted to be left alone to enjoy the 
same kinds of things we do-'Just 
pottering around, going for a walk 
together, taking the dogs out. ' " 


It's easy to read this book for laughs, 
since the author's passion for minu1ia 
has led him to include some absurd 
homey anecdotes. For instance, on page 
528, you can read about how they 
occasionally "go out to a local pub for 
a meal, and during the evening might 
tap each other lightly under the table to 
the opening bars of Beethoven's Fifth 
Symphony" (da-da-da-DA). 


The careful records of names, 
numbers, and aU phases of Elizabeth's 
behavior have a curious air of scientific 
authority. What do these facts add up 
to? Well, I'll tell you, Elizabeth Taylor 
may be the most beautiful woman in the 
world and the most relentlessly publi-
cized personality in show business, bul 
she's also a very nice person. 


**Sprocket Holes**
**Author: Doug McKinney**

Sprocket Holes 
I • I I I • I I I I I I I I I I I • I I I • I I 
The trouble with a media pheno-
menon that stays big more than a month 
is that you begin to yearn for the time 
when it will become nostalgic. Were 
everybody's Brando-Godfather imita-
tions that funny? Whether you liked it 
or not (and you are really running out 
of excuses not to have seen it by now), . 
JAWS was big news this summer. The 
resulting national shark fever isn't 
nearly as endearing a fad as Beatle-
mania or Davy Crockett coonskin-caps. 
But that goddamn shark don't know 
zippo-scratch about going away. 


The first clue to the madness wa!> 
Time's cover story (6/23), billed as 
• • ·JAWS' On Film and Other Summer 
Thrillers." "Other Summer Thrillers" 
turned out to be a small box at the 
bottom of a page as if Time forgot about 
'em too. You could attribute this article 
to a "slow news week," but when the 
film opened a few days later the media 
went berserk with the biggest binge of 
free publicity since V-J Day. Broadcasts 
swam with reports on JAWS reactions, 
impact interviews, effect on the beach 
population in or out of the water, 
merchandisers with "clever" tie-ins, 
and National History Museums. Robert 
Shaw did his best to dump on the movie 
a few days before it came out, on The 
Tonight Show. He was tired and drunk, 
and John Davidson, the guest host, is 
such a jerk that I can't blame Shaw for 
that disaster. Seaside resort merchants could 
not make up their minds whether JAWS 
was helping or hurting business, and 
Martha's Vineyard natives don't like 
Americans anyway. The film's ad logo 
turned out to be a natural for political 
cartoonists, so much so that Universal 
ran a Sunday TirMs ad composed of 
some of the better ones. 


Everybody tried to cash in. Suddenly, 
T .V. nature shows like Wild Kingdom 
and LorM Greene's Last of the Dogfood 
sprouted sharks lurking in their promo-
ttonal ttlm and title credits. Tile New 
York Aquarium and other museums 
advertised special hours and lec~ures to 
see you-know-who. True Facts shark 
books ran ads looking for business the 
way chess sets had during the Fischer-
Spassky match. Philippe Cousteau, (son 
of Jacques), guested the Tonight Show 
pooh-poohing the film's naturalist value, 
but plainly sounding just jealous. 


Predictably, Universal unleashed the 
soundtrack album, the cocktail napkins, 
etc .• and two books on the making of 
the film appeared. (Except for screen-
wnter Carl Gottlieb's overbearing pres-
e n(;e, his JAWS Log isn't bad for that 
kind of book). For the real inside s1ory. 
1alk to Andy Russem, a Senior in J. E. 
who was there at the filming, and was 
in a crowd scene or two, though none 
of his friends can find him. 


A lot of this media-mania watching 
can be fun, getting into the philosophy 
of which national nerves the movie has 
touched, and why. But when you open 
a closet or the refrigerator door and thai 
huge reptilian paw lunges at you, it's 
time to get some sleep. 


So you tum out the light, but the 
sheets feel like two slices of bread, and 
you're in the mustard, when that damn 
thumping theme music starts up again, 
and the French hom beckons, and it's 
ou1 there, waiting for you. 


-b 
Note: Next issue, this space will be 
OC(;Upied by an article focusing on 
recent discoveries of sharks in the Great 
Salt Lake, and other parts of Kansas. 




**Dead Solid Perfect**
**Author: Peter Richmond**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The New JOMrnai/October 2, 1975 
good old boy from lovely, semi-Dallas, 
Fort Worth, Texas. The main character, 
and narrator, in Dead Solid Perfect is 
Kenny Puckett, Billy Clyde's uncle. 
Kenny is a professional golfer. He is 
not a Jack Nicklaus, nor a Lee Trevino 
against whom he competes in the largest 
professional golf tournament in the 
country. But Kenny is competent 
enough to keep himself rolling in 
Lincoln Continentals, good scotch, and 
good drugs, not to mention the little 
lovelies who follow professional athel-
letes all over the country like their 
cousins in the entertainment tield. The 
outstanding feature of Jenkins' women 
is that they are all as sexually adept and 
open-minded as any middle-aged frust-
rated ex-athelete would like them to be. 
The story of Dead Solid Perfect centers 
around Kenny Puckett's participation in 
the biggest tournament in the country 
with frequent sojourns into his extreme-
) ly humorous and bizarre childhood in 
Fort Worth and the Southwestern 
environs. 

Jenkin's greatest gift is his sense of 
humor. Whether he is discussing any of 
a number of sexual encounters, or 
Puckett's second wife's lung cancer 
(referred to as 'the Big C.'), the author 
lets no scene pass without evoking 
laughter from his reader. Those who 
bear the largest brunt of Jenkins' satire 
are the men of 'big bidness', the oil 
multi-millionairs whose greed and rac-
ism results in misunderstanding and 
exploiting the atheletes they own. 

However, the atheletes themselves 
receive little less of the author's 
good-natured derogation. Fortunately. 
Jenkins is not above satirizing his own 
chauvinism, his own mindless Jove for 
man-on-man competition, and his lust 
for the good life. In a sense, the author 
enjoys the best of both worlds; as in 
Semi-Tough. the hero lifts himself above 
>the people around him, comes our the 
unquestioned victor and reaps more than 
his share of the spoils. 

Dead Solid Perfect, and Semi-Tough 
before it, arrive at an opportune time. 
The literary spons enthusiast soon tires 
of the spate of sports essays which 
gn1ced the newsstands in the late sixties 
and early seventies on the hypocrisy and 
dehumanizing aspects of football and 
baseball. Books such as Gary Shaw's 
Meat on the Hoof, and Dave Meggsey's 
Out ofTheir League, poorly written by 
ex-atheletes, soon outstayed their wel-
come wtth thetr lack of humor and 
tendency to over emphasize their mes-
sage. Now, at a time when professional 
sports continues to enjoy the undivided 
attention of a growing public, but a 
public that demands more sophisticated 
writing, and a reaJistic perspective, Dan 
Jenkins' book will satisfy almost 
~ anyone. Obscene to the limits of good 
taste and sparing no one's sacred 
values, Dead Solid Perfect is an 
unquaJified success.


**Switch Bitch**
**Author: Bill Jacobs**

Switch Bitch is four taJes in the spare 
style that marks Dahl. The best of the 
stories rely on twisted plot and the 
twtsted character of Uncle Oswald, a 
" totaJiy unmoral man" who breeds 
spiders, collects Chinese porcelain and 
does his best not to waste his singular 
ability to hypnotize women with words. 
·'The Visitor" and .. Bitch" comes 
from his memoirs (28 vol.) beside 
which "Casanova's Memoirs read like a 
parish magazine.·' For Oswald and for 
Dahl sex is scientific object. Love-
making is surgery. Experiments are 
performed first with the oscillator then 
with the high-speed centrifuge. We are 
reminded that gin inflames the uterus 
and that cigarettes are an anti-aphro-
disiac. Dahl is less exciting and 
less artful than erotic writers like 
William Kotzwinkle. Only the first and 
the best tale in Switch Bitch is quite so 
creepy as fans of the Master of 
Nastiness may desire. Oswald, absent 
from the weaker middle stories, returns 
in the last (which must not be read 
before the first) where President 
Roosevelt is menaced by a perfume that 
sets back human sex habits half a 
million years. Hopefully Dahl remem-
bers his promise to publish at least one 
more episode from Uncle Oswald's 
journal.


**Plagerizing The Prince**
**Author: Zan Thompson**

· 'lllere was a sameness to these 
(powerful] men .... They ate in the same 
restaurants, wore the same suits, wore 
Gucci loafers.··


**Power! How to Use It, How to Get It**
**Author: Robert Benjamin**

The crowded cubicles of Cross 
Campus Library and the swiftly-paced 
walk of so many Yale students are 
surely indicative of more than a pursuit 
of high grades or the release of 
anxieties. According to Michael Korda, 
the motivation for all of our sweat and 
our effort is linked with our search for 
power. Power! How to Use It, How to 
Ger lt, is a collection of common-sense 
observations that spring from one initial 
premise: "No matter who you are, the 
basic truth is that your interests are 
nobody else'!. concern, your gain is 
inevitably someone else's loss, your 
failure is someone else's victory ... 

To Korda, a New York publisher and 
the author of a work on the psychology 
of male chauvinism, power is at once 
the motivating force in a man·!. life and 
an amusing game of Machiavellian 
politics. It is one we play constantly and 
fiercely, one which affects our deaJings 
with those we command, serve and 
love. 

Korda's belief that power is a force in 
which few acknowledge and interest, 
yet all covet. In our society, sex is no 
longer the taboo subject of discussion, 
the world beyond is rarely taken 
seriously, the lust for "power-which is 
the ability to bring about our desires-is 
all we have left .... We believe in 
ambition as we one believed in 
salvation. 

The author relates various stories of 
celebrities (ostensibly those who have 
reached the goal of power), the games 
and exerciseswhich they mustplay and 
perform in order to remain among the 
swiftest, and the symbols of power 
which they so flaunt. 

Power! deals at length with the 
amportance, trappings and advantages of 
power in our lives, but it is doubtful 
that anyone who has this book will 
actually be any closer to that elusive 
goal. The type of clothes one wears, the 
set of hi!-. jaw. or the look in his eye are 
all crucial in the fame of competition of 
which Korda writes. Such information 
can provide a reader with choice items 
of trivia, but will not appreciably help 
the serious power-hunter. Indeed, it is 
difficult to read Power! with the proper 
respect that Korda would wish us to 
have. Tht!-. can be illustrated by a 
glance at the book·s chapter heading!>: 
.. Power Means Love:· .. Maybe I'm a 
Weakling.·· .. Gossip Power ..... Money 
and Sex are Force!-- Too Unruly For 
ReaMm.·· ··Foot Power.·· and ··A 
Gold-Plated Thermos is a Man's Best 
Friend.·· The contents of the chapters 
are generally as amusing and ridiculous 
as their titles. 

This is a book for those who scorn 
power rather than embrace it. Korda 
has, perhaps unintentionally, written a 
far more effective critique of society·s 
misdirected values than he has of how 
to win power and influence.


**In Memory of Tim Horton, Defenseman for the Buffalo Sabres, Dead, at 40, in an Auto Wreck**
**Author: William L. Morris**

page 13 
In Memory of Tim Horton, 
Defenseman for the Buffalo 
Sabres, Dead, at 40, in 
an Auto Wreck 
He went faster and faster 
but he couldn' t go any further in the 
enchantment of looking forward. 

He began to substitute 
remembering for seeing 
and people pretended to age. 
They stopped without any cause. 
Only he stayed young, 
living in a mean and childlike 
world playing 
games and having to argue. 
Perhaps he was supposed to die young 
but avoided death by acci~ent 
and lived in a world 
where nothing could change for him. 
a shadow followed him, 
a failure that started to stick. 
Life never became an effort, 
but he did begin to feel foolish. 
Inside the car he spun 
and hit the passive objects 
that would kill him. At first 
he hit them harder than 
they hit him. And then 
he kind of slept. 

The police found themselves 
talking to him. 
Even dead he seemed large 
and friendJy. But there was no more 
action green in his body. 
Things stopped moving easily 
around him. His coat seemed 
to cause discomfort. 

He had sought discussions 
but he reveived only 
this gnarled grace, caged 
in an agonizing vehicle.


**(continued from page 4)**
**Author: Dennis Shasha**
**Page number(s): 14**

page 14 
(continued from page 4) 
management-level employees out of a 
total work force of under 200. Arnold 
points out that these 30 are necessary 
for a store the Co-op's size, though the 
same number would also be able 
to manage a substantially larger store. 
Some note that several managers spend 
their time domg work that floor 
personnel could do, even though their 
salaries range from two to five times 
that of most floor personnel. 

The roles the Co-op management, 
Board, and university administration 
played in the ~nion pre-election can-
paign are difficult to establish for sure. 
A few facts are available. The law 
firm that the Co-op used to deal with 
the union is Yale's law firm. The Co-op 
union suggested this as one piece of 
evidence of th¢ University's involve-
ment in management's effort to prevent 
formation of the union. A board 
member noted that there are only two 
law firms in New Haven big enough to 
handle the Co-op's needs. The Co-op 
happens to use the same on Yale uses, 
he continued, as does the local utility 
company. 

Peter Halsey, assistent to the Univer-
sity Secretary Henry Chauncy, denies 
official university administration in-
volvment in Co-op affairs. He admits, 
however, that university offiCials who 
are on the board might use their offices 
to help the Co-op in incidental ways. 
Georgia Nelson, dean of Yale College 
and a Co-op board member, did obtain 
some anti-union literature that the 
university had used when the Yale 
Non-Faculty Action Committee 
(YNFAC) tried to form a union in 1971. 
She insists, however, that anyone could 
have obtained that literature and that the 
board subsequently decided not to use 
most of it anyway. 

The Yale administrator most per-
sistently mentioned by union members 
as having had a significant role in trying 
to prevent the formation of the union is 
Leonard Marcus, director of the Univer-
sity's employee relations department. 
This is significant. Marcus is the 
University's expert on unions. Pro-union 
and anti-union people alike recognize 
his handling of the 1971 YNFAC 
campaign as so skillful that any role he 
might have played in the pre-election 
campaign at the Co-op would have 
greatly effected the election's outcome. 

How might Marcus have influenced 
events at the Co-op? In an earlier, 
unrelated union campaign, a group of 
non-faculty workers at the medical 
school came together to deal with one 
common grievance. They got a few 
concessions from the University, but felt 
they were being ignored. They decided 
to try forming a union to force the 
University to recognize them. The union 
was to comprise virtually all clerical and 
technical employees of the University. 
Yale sent its employees letters which 
encouraged fear of union dependability: 
.. The union may make promises, but is 
not obliged to keep them;·' fear of lost 
independence: " How does the majority 
view individual initiative;" and fear of 
not being rewarded for achievements: 
.. Would you prefer to be promoted on 
the basis of your ability or your 
seniority?" These questions came from 
~arcu s's booklet. Besides writing the 
booklet, Marcus orchestrated the Uni-
versity's campaign. The union ended up 
receiving less than one third of the 1916 
votes cast. 

Marcus denies helping the Co-op in 
any direct way. Several board members 
denied having dealt with Marcus, as did 
Willoughby, although he said that he 
and Marcus are friends. Willoughby, 
Assistant Dean Nelson, and the Union 
all have copies of Marcus· booklet. 

The Co-op board's and management's 
pre-election campaign was less polemic 
than Yale's 1971 campaign. Yale sent 
its employees twelve opinionated letters 
while the Co-op sent its employees only 
three, which encouraged employees to 
vote and explained the reasons the board 
had refused to accept the union's 
eligibility on the basis of a union card 
check. In fact, in one letter, the board 
stated, " The board cannot be regarded 
as having taken any position [with 
respect to the formation of the unionj. ·· 
The board provided departmental 
meetings to encourage employees to ask 
questions about the union, but stopped 
having them after the first two resulted 
in distracting the workers from their 
work, because of the emotional issues 
The New Journal/October 2, 1975 
raised during those meetings, explained 
board member Nelson. 

Some union members think that the 
university administration, the board, and 
the Co-op management all opposed 
formation of the Co-op umon. Possible 
motives for their opposition do suggest 
themselves. 

The administration may have feared 
that successful unionization by Co-op 
workers would encourage Yale non-
faculty workers to try again. And 
indeed, non-faculty workers are doing 
just that. 

The board may have feared that 
rising labor costs and a strong union 
might disrupt the store's operation (as it 
would have had the strike been called) 
and make the store lose money which it 
hasn't done yet. 


The management may have believed 
that its interests and authority were 
threatened by the existence of a union. 
Some managers might have sensed a 
potential employment threat: afraid that 
as union member wages go up, the store 
will look for ways to economize and 
managers will be laid off. 

All the same, the documentation and 
most verbal evidence available suggest 
that if these groups had such motives, 
they did not act. The workers have 
acted ... Workers have the choice, .. said 
a union representative, ·'of acting or 
being squashed." 
Dennis Shasha is a junior in Eua Stiles 
College. 

·•····································•····················································································•················•··············•···•·········•· 
for the union, with 132 out of 136 
eligible voting, 70 voted for the union, 
62 against. Lou Pellgrino later described 
the moment: "After we all voted by 
secret ballot, the NLRB agent started to 
count the votes. The intensitv of the 
moment could be felt and was expressed 
on the faces of alI who were present. 
Management and their lawyer on one 
side of the room, the union reps and 
employees on the other side. As the 
vote tally was finally separated into two 
piles, we were one vote short of a 
majority, because of seven challenged 
ballots. Management walked out with 
tears in their eyes, and we walked out a 
bit confused. Within an hour, though, it 
all. came clear: we would win. The only 
question was wh:!n?" 

On 12 March, 1975. the management 
filed charges of unfair labor practice 
with the NLRB. It viewed the elections 
as unfair for several reasons, including 
the exclusion of an anti-union worker 
from meetings, and the preserJCe on the 
Board of a union employee. Union 
representatives replied that the board 
member had resigned his post in the 
union upon joining the Board, and that 
the employee had not been barred from 
meetings, and in fact had been allowed 
to speak at length. 

When the Board met to discuss 
these chargeS Rabbi Arnold Wolf, of the 
Yale Religious Ministry, rejected them 
At 7:30p.m. on 27 August, an 
as "trivial, dilatory and improbable," 
agreement was reached after last-minute 
and Robert Sarason, for the student 
concessions by the board, and a strike 
group, presented a petition with 1702 
was averted. Why did management and 
signatures of Co-op members opposing the board change their position? The 
the Board's suit. The Board then 
~o-op workers ~e talked with feel that 
decided to drop the charges, Georgia 
11 was th~ combmed effect of the threat 
Nelson saying " I don't think they (the of_the.stnke ~.d the boycott. Jan 
objections) are strong." 

At that time the main task of the 
Wet ben stated . that the threat of the 
union was to build up the momentum 
boycott was maJOr. They felt that they 
and unity of the movement in order to 
could keep the store open. They felt that 
succeed in the negotiations. This was 
if they just had those cashiers they 
also the time that the most important 
probably could make it run. But towards 
cases of intimidation against. the union 
the end they realized that workers they 
allegedly took place-the fmngs or 
never thought had the strength said, 
lay-offs of pro-union workers. 

Negotiations began in June and 
·yes, they'd go on strike, said they'd go 
continued over. the course of the 
out.·· 

summer, breakmg ~ff on 15. A.ugust, 
What is the content of the agreement, 
1975, .when the umon negot1atmg 
and what is its significance for the 
comm1ttee refused to accept the Co-op s Co-op workers'? It contains several 
final offer of a one-year.contract, an 
• victories for the union, in particular a 
open sho~, and ~ 15¢ ra1se. 

The umon dectded to hold a str1ke 
raise of 2~ across the board immediate-
ly, and an additional 1~ on January 1 
vote on 27 A~gu st, 1975, and. fully . 
1976, and a wage reopener in one 
expected that 11 w<:>uld be earned out if year's time. Minimum wage will be 
no further concessao~ were made by . 
r.tised by 1~ immediately, and by 
management. The uruon woriced to wm another 1~ on January 1, 1976. 

The union did not entirely win on the 
t. 
f th .. 
· 
ho " All 
I 
he 
.k 
d be 
ques 10n o 
e 
umon s 
p. 
over emp oyees to t 
stn e, an 
gan 
1 ed t th t. 
f 
• 
L 
1. 
and 
bo 
persons emp oy 
a 
e 1me o 
to orglll'!aze P1c~et tnes 
ycott. 
ratification will be able to choose not to 
At the bme, many Yale faculty gave 
. . 
. 
their support to a petition affuming "the JOIO, bu! all future emplc~yees w1ll 
right of students to exercise the freedom automatt~ ly become umon members 
of their conscience in boycocting the 
after a penod of 30 days. 

A major victory is the institution of a 
store." 

grievance procedure that involves the 
election of five shop stewards who will 
meet weekly with representatives of 
management in order to work out 
problems with general working con-
ditions. Also, from now on store 
policies for check cashing, refunds, etc. 
will be written down and employees 
v 
will be clearly and correctly informed of 
them. Jury duty and overtime will be 
paid, and a health plan will be 
mtroduced. 

On the whole, employees are satisfied 
with these results. " It is really going to 
change the face of the Co-op." says Jan 
Wieben. They feel that the new 
agreement will have a beneficial effect 
on the store's operation in a general 
sense. Wieben says that " having a 
union at the Yale Co-op will improve 
service, improve the business, it will 
make them organize it better." 

Union members are also pleased at 
the effect of the union on their personal 
relations. Susan Wong says " Now 
we're much better at working together" 
and Wieben adds that "in that sense a 
union is a humanizing influence. " They 
are also optimistic about the future of 
the union. Helen Migliore shares this 
optimism and sees the main priority for 
•• 
now as building a strong union local. 
" We'd like to win over the people who 
had not joined us ... It can only help 
them. it can't hurt them.·· 
Rebecca McCormick,'76 is a Poli-Sci major.


**A Most Unlikely Love Story**
**Author: Jonathan M. Winer**
**Page number(s): 15**

(continueapom page 2) 
• perusal of the outside comer of the 
envelope proved she was writing from 
somewhere in Ploughkeepsie, New 
York and that Harold lived in the 
Bahamas. " I guess they must com-
mute,·· thought our hero. " But how did 
the letter end up here?"" 

Albert ran back to his room and 
began composing a letter. He worked 
four hours beffore he hit on exactly 
what he wanted. When he did, the 
message was short and to the point. 
"Dear Bertha,·· it said. " How about 
this weekend?"· and he mailed it. For 
the rest of the day, he forgot to think 
about Alison. 

But by the next day, when he"d 
received two more letters from Bertha, 
exhorting him in increasingly unreserved 
language to indulge in unrestrained acts . 
of legal and illegal passion, he began to 
4 
wonder if Allison was really his one and 
only. For Albert had never gotten such 
things through the mail before. And 
quickly, without realizing it, he began 
to fall in love. 

He continued to write to Bertha, 
sending epistles no more reserved than 
hers, signing them Harold, giving them 
Harold"s return address. After two 
weeks, he could stand it no longer. 
"Dear Bertha,· · he wrote. "I have a 
Harold. I am Albert. I have been 
writing these letters. My real address is 
not in the Grand Caymans but at 1000 
B.C. Yale Station and I am madly in 
love with you-stupidly in Jove with 
you-
tragically in love with you-and 
hope to hear from you soon. Passionate-
ly yours, Albert.·· 

He thrust the letter in the mail box 
and awaited the reply. Naturally, the 
next two days continued the red flood of 
passion from Bertha. But then lhere 
was a mysterious pause in her push. 
Then a silence. An ominous breaking 
off. 

For three weeks, Albert"s box 
remained empty. He wrote pained sad 
crazy letters to Allison. Then one day, a 
little brown envelope landed in the box, 
mailed from somewhere in the mysteri-
ous orient. 
"What" s this?"· he cried, ripping it 
open. 

"Dear Albert, .. it said. "Thank you. 
You· ve provided me with the two most 
wonderful girls in the whole wide 
world. I would nave never met Allison 
without you-neither would I have had 
the courage to write what I presume you 
must have written Bertha. I appreciate 
it. I reallY. do. Harold.·· 

Albert stood stunned as a piece of 
green paper fluttered out from behind 
the letter. He picked it up and stared at 
it, uncomprehendingly. Then he noticed 
a P.S. on the letter. 
" P.s.;· the letter read. "To show 
you my appreciation, I enclose this 
$10,000 check.·· And he looked at the 
check and right there at the top was 
Harold"s Bahamas address, and his 
Arabian address, and his Arizona 
address and above that it read Harold 
and then it read Hughes. 
"Gee, .. said Albert. " I guess I won "t 
be getting any more mail for a while.··


**Beauty Contest**
**Author: Various**

Beauty Contest 
This marks our debut as a forum for 
brief contemporary opinion on a wide 
variety of timely topics. This month we 
asked friends for their definitions of 
beauty, and received the following 
replies: 

I would use the same definition I use 
for art, although I avoid definition: that 
which enriches the vision. 

Robert L. Herbert, Art History 

There was a time wnen I would have 
said something, but now I"m too old. 

HaroltLBloom, English 

Like all important things, it"s unde-
finable. 

Robert Fogelin, Philosophy 

Beauty is cherries and cheesecake under 
class. 

Bill Jacobs. '76 

Beauty is any number of angels dancing 
on the head of a pin. 

Corby S. Kummer, '78 

Beauty is the constant conversion and 
reconverting of upbeat to downbeat. 

Joan Panetti, Music 

Beauty tS what any generatton nee s tn 
order to face life ... well that"s ... thafs 
almost co~ct. 

Vmcent Scully, Art Htstory 

Look in the mirror. Do you see beauty? 
Do you see ugliness? If you see both, 
you"re all mixed up. 

Jem Winer, '76 

Beauty is a resident of a small town in 
Montana. 

Sue Halpern, '76 

Beauty strikes us immediately in the 
eye, the ear, or wherever, as a 
completed and harmonious whole; yet as 
we continue to consider it, it explands, 
unfolds and shows its infinite 
implications. Often it is the unexpected 
realization of potentiality, be it a student 
discoveringa new idea, house plants 
flourishing despite the neglect of their 
owner, or the moon rising behind the 
Parthenon. 

Ruth S. Day, Psychology 

rm afraid I would not care to define it 
in 25 or even I 00 words or less. If I 
said something serious I couldn "t 
believe it. I suppose I should say 
something funny, but J"m not very good 
at jokes. 

Karsten Harries, Philosophy 
page 15


**The New York Review of Books Advertisement**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
THE REVIEW EVERYONE IS TALKING ABOUT
AND MORE EXCITING THAN EVER!
Let us send you the current
Issue FREE so that you can see
what all the fuss Is about.
What makes The New York Review so
different from any other magazine in
America? Why has it been called"... the
best general review of books and human
affairs to appear in this country in at least
a generation." (Henry David Aiken, Bran-
deis University)?
And why is the Review so often the
source of the new ideas that become the
center of discussion in literature, art, poli-
tics, science, history, psychology, educa-
tion?
Since it began publishing more than a
decade ago, The New York Review has
reshaped the standards and thinking of
American intellectual life. It has, for one
thing, redefined what good book reviews
should be-probing essays on the real is-
sues raised by the most important books
being published. As The New York Times
said, "it) has succeeded brilliantly...: be-
cause of its "stubborn refusal to treat
books, or the theatre and movies, for that
matter, as categories of entertainment to
be indulged in when the working day is
done."
Every two weeks The New York Review
of Books publishes criticism by writers and
scholars who are themselves a major force
in world literature and thought- Mary
McCarthy, Gore Vidal, Elizabeth Hard-
wick, Robert Coles, Garry Wills, Alfred
Kazin, Susan Sontag, H. R. Trevor-Roper,
Hannah Arendt, Robert Lowell, and many
others. They address themselves to a group
which represents something new and im-
portant in America: over 100,000 readers
who know that the wide range of subjects
will be discussed in an unusual way. "Read-
ing The New York Review," one professor
writes, "is my idea of what going to a bril-
liant, small university should be."
Is it any wonder that in this age of
screaming media- TV, radio, multi-million
copy magazines- The New York Review
with just over 100,000 circulation has be-
come the most discussed intellectual jour-
nal in the country? We believe that you,
too, will be fascinated by reviews and fea-
tures like these published in recent issues:
HANNAH ARENDT writes a "Bicenten-
nial Address" that...America plain
after the lessons of the past ten years...
JEAN-PAUL SARTRE tells what it's like
to become blind at 70 and discusses
his own writing and politics, as
well
as those of others.
ROGER SALE reviews the delights and
falls of the bestselling Ragtime
by E. L. Doctorow.
GEOFFREY BARRACLOUGH explores the
heart of the world struggle for wealth
and power in reviewing six new books
on the present economic crisis.
SAUL BELLOW writes on the power of
Barcelona.
EMMA ROTHSCHILD clarifies the will
from the false prophets of world doom
in reviewing the second report of The
Club of Rome.
ROBERT COLES discusses the tensions
that hang over Boston today and shows
how cities are re-enacting the turmoil
of...
In A City in Terror: The
Boston Police Strike by Francis
Russell.


In addition, Contributing Editor I. F.
Stone's articles-on Kissinger, on the CIA,
on the threat of an Oil War, on how Con-
gress was raped and the American people
conned in the Mayaguez affair-make The
Review even more essential reading for
those who care deeply about ideas and
political truth.

A Free Copy of the Latest Issue
and a Firm No-Risk Invitation
Why not see for yourself what all the
shouting is about? We feel you will enjoy
reading The New York Review of Books-
but we think you should decide at our risk,
not yours. Therefore, we will send you the
most recent issue entirely free of charge-
and reserve for you a Trial Subscription
for a full year (22 issues) at the money-
saving price of only $12.50 with this guar-
antee: that you can receive full refund (not
partial) of the entire subscription fee at any
time- even after receiving a full year's
issues. Why not take advantage of this un-
usual invitation now?

The Latest Issue FREE-And
A Year's Subscription-at Our Risk



Lad's Restaurant
41 College St. (in College Plaza) 865-5279
Breakfast-Luncheon-Orders to Go
SPECIAL .. CHILDREN'S HOUR" ROOM
TELE: 776-0194 COLLECT
Try our BREAKFAST SPECIAL:
2 eggs, coffee, juice, toast, jelly
SPECIAL ORDERS
MASTER CHARGE
GIFT CERTIFICATES
BANKAMERICARD
We have a self-service SALAD BAR
from 12 to 2 pm.
794 ORANGE ST. (CORNER OF WILLOW)
NEW HAVEN, CT 06511
We also Cater Buffets!

