Publication date: October 21, 1983
Volume: 16
Issue number: 2

**MASTHEAD**
- Publisher: Hilary Callahan
- Editor-in-Chief: W. Hampton Sides
- Designer: Tom McQuillen
- Photography Editor: Christine Ryan
- Business Managers: Robert Moore, Peter Phleger
- Managing Editors: Jim Lowe, Morris Panner
- Associate Business Managers:  Kati Krissmann, Vanessa Sciarra, Marilyn Sagar
- Associate Editors: Paul Hofheinz, Tina Kelley, Mike Otsuka, Laura Pappano, Katherine Scobey
- Associate Production Managers: Lauren Rabin, Tony Reese, Christianna Williams
- Staff: Jim Ayer, Anne Applebaum, Joyce Banerjee, Dave Hanson, Eduardo Cruz, Larry Goon, Sally Sloan, Amy Stevens, Corinne Tobin, Lelia Wardwell, Darren Gersh, Nicholas Christakis, Lisa Yun
- Executive Board: Hilary Callahan, Paul Hofheinz, Jim Lowe, Tom McQuillen, Robert Moore, Morris Panner, Peter Phleger, Christine Ryan, Hampton Sides


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
Features
- The One-man Ministry of Parson Paul
- The Yale Entrepreneurs
- Life and Death at the Grove Street Cemetery
Interview
- Apartheid in Black and White
Books
- A Separate Peace at Yale
Letters
- Between the Vines
NewsJournal
- NewsJournal
Afterthought


**Title: The One-man Ministry of Parson Paul**
**Author: [Author not specified]**
**Page number(s): 10**


A crusade against AIDS in New Haven.



**Title: The Yale Entrepreneurs**
**Page number(s): 14**


Free enterprise comes of age on campus.



**Title: Life and Death at the Grove Street Cemetery**
**Page number(s): 19**


Tales of an old New England graveyard: An October story.



**Title: Apartheid in Black and White**
**Page number(s): 26**




Robin Winks discusses his summer in South Africa.



**Title: A Separate Peace at Yale**
**Page number(s): 34**


John Knowles looks back, again.



**Title: Letters**
**Page number(s): 38**


Between the Vines



**Title: NewsJournal**
**Page number(s): 4**


**Title: Letters**
**Author: Various**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
More than Money
To the Editor: 
Though genuinely intrigued by your 
point of view in "Troubadors, Inc.: 
The W hiffenpoofs of 75," I wish to 
contest several aspects of the art ide in 
the hope of contributing to a broader 
evaluation of the nature of the grQup. 

First of all your presentation of the 
size and composition of our annual 
budget (the numbers for which you at-
tribute in quotation to me) is incorrect. 
G iven that our group ('83) performed 
over 200 times during the year, had we 
averaged S 1000 a concert and had 
private donors supplied us with an ad-
ditional "six figures," our revenues 
would have been well over $300,000 
for the ·year. In fact our budget was 
well under $90,000, and only $10,000 
of that was the result of private dona-
tions. Record sales made up another 
$15,000. 

Secondly I contest the dramatic im-
portance you place on 'the group's be-
ing an incorporated non-profit entity. 
This step was initiated by the 1982 
group to insure that the WhifTenpoofs' 
income was appropriately earned and 
spent in the eyes of the IRS. Having 
been a Whiff business manager whose 
obsession it was to always keep us out 
of the red, no one should have taken 
our "business" more seriously than I, 
and that is why I am so troubled in 
general by the tone of your anicle. I 
feel that your misleading portrayal of 
both the numbers involved and of our 
incorporation causes one to lose sight 
of what I perceive to be the real nature 
of the group. 

Having been in existence now for 75 
years, the WhifTenpoofs have gained a 
reputation which in turn means the 
group is sought out very often. But I 
don't think 
we're 
the "lingering 
anachronism" you would make us. The 
mere fact that there are so many other 
very business-like singing groups on 
campus doing the same kind of thing 
we're doing is proof enough that our 
style and our music are a contem-
porary reality. 

Sincerely, 
Rob Carter 
'83 Whiffenpoofs


Clarification
·To the Editor: 
I note that the lead article in the 
September 9, 1983, issue of The New 
journal contains the allegation that a 
letter written by me on behalf of the 
Whiffenpoofs of 1983 was "forged." I 
would like to assure all those concerned 
that I did indeed write the letter in 
question, and no forgery of any kind 
was involved. In addition, the secre-
tary responsible for forwarding the let-
ter had at that time the initials R.M.C. 
With best wishes, 
Sincerely yours, 
A. Bartlett Giamatti

Editor's note: Business Manager Rob Carter 
still claims he wrote the letter in question. He 
says he showed it to Giamatti for his 
signature and approval bifore it appeared in 
the ·Whijfenpoof 74th anniversary album.


Humanism's Reprise
Mike Otsuka's article "Beneath The 
Liberal Facade" is a sad example of the 
extremist rhetoric that preoccupies 
those on both enos of Yale's political 
spectrum. He states that "it will still re-
quire a fair amount of ingenuity for 
thoughtful liberals to preserve their 
ideology and the sincerity of their 
beliefs while at Yale." It may come as a 
surprise to Mr. Otsuka that not every-
one has a fixed conception of the world 
before arriving at Yale. Some of us are 
searching for and exploring ideas 
rather than trying to preserve intact 
some ideology miraculously handed 
down from the mount. 

Mr. Otsuka ·l!mbarrasses himself 
when he generalizes that "in the class-
rooms, the Old World overshadows the 
New World and the Third World." His 
Blue Book is either missing a few hun-
dred pages, or he is consciously 
denigrating professors like Morgan 
and Spence and the countless courses 
dealing with the New and Third 
Worlds. H e continues that "much of 
what is considered worth teaching and 
remembering was produced decades or 
centuries ago on a small plot of land 
which extends from G reece to France 
and north to Britain." You're dam n

right it is! Understanding that small 
plot- Western civilization- is the key 
to understanding tht> modern world, 
New a nd Third Worlds included. To 
deny the importance and relevance in 
1983 of European culture and history 
may be chic with Mr. Otsuka's friends , 
but it is a rather narrow and ignorant 
viewpoint. 

The final idea I must dispute is Mr. 
Otsuka's assertion that we are "indulg-
ing" ourselves in a liberal arts educa-
tion "at a significant cost to society." 
Obviously he missed a few crucial 
Econ 
11 5 
lectures on cost-benefit 
analysis. Although not easily quan-
tified, the benefits of turning over to 
society every year more than 1,200 
well-trained minds, each with about 
60 good years o f usc left, is a priceless 
legacy to the future. 

Lisa CrC:an 
Calhoun 'R5


Artistic Radicalism
While reading "Beneath the Liberal 
Facade," (TN.f, September 9, 1983) I 
was struck by one major omission Mike 
Otsuka made in his attempt to define 
Yale as a purely conservative institu-
tion. Any reference to the fine arts as a 
radicalizing innuem·c on culture was 
glaringly absent. Beyond politics, be-
yond accusations of elitism, the univer-
sity has always promoted fn:t·dom of 
expression 
in 
music, 
1n 
art, 
10 
literature. 

To ignore the impa< t of < reative 
renegades (the arti<>t i< mavericks who 
cuatt fads and trends, instead of 
passively 
following 
tht.•m) 
IS 
to 
misunderstand the -.cry nature of 
society. 

Yale 
as an 
institution builds 
character, groom s leaders- <tnd the 
leaders in art , musi< and literature are 
those who dart> to be different, those 
who stand apart from the crowd. Our 
university hac; never em·ouragcd con-
formity. Rather it is internal pressure, 
a psychological fear of n.· jection, that 
breeds conformist behavior. That, to 
me, is true consl·rvatism -a com-
pulsive need to cling to the past, a fear 
of change. Viewed in this respect, Yale 
is one of the most radical places on 
earth. 

Bird Brenner '82 
Rock Springs, Wyoming


Vapid Propaganda
To the Erlitor: 
Laura Pappano's "Beasts of Burden" 
(TN] 9/9/83) typifies the unquestion-
ing approach of mainstream jour-
nalism to the thorny issues- scientific, 
moral and political- that 
attend 
animal experimentation. As such, it 
stands as a vapid propaganda piece 
that trumpets the value of animal 
models to medical research and fosters 
the myth of researcher concern for the 
pain and death of the animals in ques-
tion. 

Regarding the value of animal 
models, we must not assume their use 
has been an unqualified benefit to 
humankind. After all, we have been 
plagued by the horrors of thalidomide, 
DES, TRIS, Deproprovera and diox-
in, to name only a few, precisely 
because their manufacturers were able 
to show safety in animal models. Since 
humans are not dogs or cats or rabbits, 
the tests on these animals weren't in 
truth applicable to the human condi-
tion. T he fallibility can also cut the 
other way: If for example the use of 
penicillin had to depend on animal 
tests to be proven safe a nd effective, 
penicillin would never have entered 
the market, for it is toxic to the prime 
species of test animals. 

Is there an alternative? Non-animal 
tests such as computer and mathema-
tical models of biological systems and 
human cell and/or tissue cultures offer 
a sensible one in many cases, as they 
do not require data derived from one 
species to be applied to another. 

Bill Mannetti 
Animal Rights Front

The opi nion~ expres~ in this ~ction are 
chose of the individual writer'~ . n,, Ntw.fouTMI 
c.-nc:ourages leuers to rhe ediror, and <Ommen! 
on Yale and New H aven issue1 Wrire coW. 
Hampron Sides. Editorials, 3432 Yale S1arion, 
New Haven. CT 06520. All leuen for 
publicarion muse include address and 
signarure.


**Title: Between the Vines**
**Author: Eric**
**Page number(s): 6**

Dissection versus Delight: 
Forgetting Why Wa Read Literature
Teacher: (Reading lines from A Mid-
summer Night's Drtam) 
For ere Demetrius looked on Hermia's eyne, 
He hailed down oaths that he was only mine; 
And when thif hail some heat from Hermia felt, 
So h' dissolved, and showers of oaths dtd melt 
Now class, what do you make 
of this? Anyone? Eric? 
Student: (Gulping). It's . 
. uh just 
... PRECIPITATION. 

This is a transcription, recorded to the 
best of my memory of an exchange be-
tween a professor and me in English 
129 my freshman year. This and 
similar best-forgotten experiences con-
vinced me to leave Yale after one year 
and enroll in my home state school, the 
University of Kansas. It was only 
there, in a program called the In-
tegrated 
Humanities, 
that 
I 
was 
reminded of what I had been missing 
in my courses at Yale: that ticklish 
vibration touching the heart, mind, 
soul or some combination thereof. 

I was missing the humanities them-
selves. 

My professor wanted to hear: "Snow 
and other forms of precipitation are a 
recurring motif in the play. Shake-
speare's use of snow here is probably 
meant to contras 
's pure 
white love with the more watery love of 
_____ who uses the metaphor of 
rain." To which he would have replied, 
"Good. Do you see the thunderstorm 
in Act III fitting into this pattern?" The 
culmination of such a line of analysis 
would be the construction of a huge 
schematic of the play, preferably in 
three dimensions, showing the plot, 
subplots, 
c haracters, symbols, 
metaphors and themes in all their 
inter-relationships-a chart much like 
the anatomist's fold-over transparen-
cies of the human body. 

The temptation to analyze great art 
in this fashion is understandable. If 
art's workings seem as complicated and 
intriguing as life itself, it's because they 
are. Shakespeare is living literature. 

Editions of the great authors have 
periodically come out as pocket "com-
panions," and 
the epithet is ap-
propriate. 

But how do you get to know your 
friends? Do you say, "My, it appears 
you have a healthy underlying bone 
stratum"? Or do you simply share in-
sights and laughter? We have potential 
companions in all the great authors, 
but at Yale we line them up like 
cadavers in anatomy class. 

At KU my professors often simply 
read the passage slowly, savoring every 
word, bringing out the poetry, majesty 
and mystery of the lines, perhaps ad-
ding a relevant illustration from life. 

For Shakespeare did not write and l}rt•-
sent his plays for listeners to analy?.c' 
and categorize afterwards. Rather, he 
wrote them for 1tsteners to hear the 
words one after the other and he 
moved by them, touched by some fresh 
facet of eternal truth or new inkling of 
the delights and woes of man's lot . 

(How else was the playwright to mt•t•t 
his payroll at the Globe?) 

Helena's lines are great and are 
studied and remembered bentusc.· thc.·y 
are beautiful. People customarily think 
of music as being confined to the 88 
notes of the A-440 scale, but tht• 
sounds of ~poke n language have thl'ir 
own mu~ic as well and can be arrangt•d 
in ways that arc equally pleasurahlt• to 
the human ear: 


**Title: Truth and Beauty**
**Author: Eric Remer**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
For Demetrius looked on Hermia's face.
He hailed down oaths that he was only true,
And when this hail fell from Hermia's face,
So he dissolved, and showers of oaths did fall.
And we study these lines because they are true.
I.e. we can be like that.
Can't it?


The first time my humanities professor at KU pointed out truth in art, I was stunned. It was the place in the Odyssey where the old nurse tucks the sleeping Telemachus into bed. After reading the passage in a slow somber way, he asked us if we remembered when our mothers used to tuck us in with the same "gentle fold" of the blanket.


If a Yale professor were to say such a thing on the record, he would be brought before the Committee of Undocumented Citations and asked to explain himself. But at KU the pastures are green and the cows easygoing, so the professor got away with it. And to be sure, his point was not a sentimental one at all, but simply this: that many lines from great books, often the most inane details or digressions, depict a part of our common human experience.


I anticipate the following objection: "Granted that appreciation of truth and beauty is the main end of art. But doesn't analysis play a role in art criticism, and isn't that at least partly what we're here at Yale to do?"


Analysis does play a role. You can't help it. After the electric moment your mind instinctively goes back and pores over the questions why and how.


But in the end the purpose of closer study should not be simply to dissect; quite the contrary. Analysis must highlight the truth and beauty of the art just as the art itself attempts to highlight these qualities in human experience. We should strive for a pulling together rather than a pulling apart—a union of art with the human experience it depicts.


In presenting, for example, the above passage from Shakespeare, my professor at KU would not have assumed that the words reflected reality for the class. Rather, he would have encouraged us to test them against our own lives. In what ways had our experience of love been as Helena described it in her metaphor? In turn, the professor might have consulted the standards of Plato or St. Paul: maybe Helena isn't talking about love at all, but rather infatuation.


Such comparisons of art to life greatly enhanced not only our appreciation of art, but also our understanding of life. In the humanities, the integration of the whole is greater than the analysis of its parts.


"But is this analysis at all?" Indeed it is. It is the analysis that is partner to synthesis, the inductive analysis of the visionary who brings together seemingly unrelated areas of reality and says "Aha!" In this sense Walt Whitman and Albert Einstein were equally great scientists.


When, however, a professor simply dissects art (or history or philosophy), when he analyzes the part of humanity in isolation from the whole, he does what even the scientist tries to avoid: he conducts an "in vitro" examination. He treats the subject as if it were its own universe devoid of significance outside its complex interior relationships. He does so whether he applies the dissection to individual works or whole genres. In either case the result is the same: the work or genre is made relevant only to itself, not to the human beings who are studying it.


To do justice to Yale, I should note that many professors recognize the deficiency of analysis divorced from human feelings or experience. When I finished my two years in the program at KU, I returned warily for a week-long visit. One professor I spoke with sympathized with my views but asked, "How else can we know whether students have understood what they have read?" Another, concurring, added that lack of student preparation made for much of the pointless connections drawn in English 129 discussions and that teachers were being pulled into the web. Another professor said she was surprised by my concern over lack of true appreciation because, as she put it, "That's just assumed."


These professors would do well to heed the words of Robert Frost: "The figure a poem makes . . . begins in delight and ends in wisdom." By emphasizing the intermediary stage of analysis and assuming prior delight, teachers can leave us aimless wanderers of the grey neuro-synapse network somewhere between Frost's two psychic ideals.


I finally decided to return to Yale not for these demurrals, but for certain practical considerations: it was the only place open to me with all the opportunities, resources and varying stimuli of a high-powered university. Based on these criteria, my decision was a sound one.


Nevertheless, my enjoyment of courses over the last year was seldom enhanced by active encouragement of delight on the part of my professors. This is the area where a small change could precipitate a renaissance. Yale students, realizing the problem, could make their desires and dissatisfactions known to great effect. Faculty in turn could reassess their role in undergraduate humanities courses. Is the teacher the head anatomist or a catalyst of delight, friendship and the integration of the humanities with the human experience they depict?

At Yale we line them up like so many cadavers.


Eric Remer, an English major, is a senior in Jonathan Edwards.
*The opinions expressed in this article are those of the individual author.
The New Journal/October 21, 1983 7


**Title: University Pictures**
**Author: Newsjournal**
**Page number(s): 8**

He doesn't expect to make so much of a dent into the profits of a commercial movie industry dominated by Goliaths. But David Lee '85, co-founder of the newly established University Pictures, would like to surpass the grainy, wobbly, self-conscious products which are the trademarks of so many amateur home film makers. Lee is not yet anticipating any off-campus releases but he would like to screen some of his films at the Law School Film Society.


University Pictures has already begun planning its first projects including a number of shorts entitled "Man in the Street." Bob Simonds '85, another co-founder, plans to lend Super-8 cameras to interested students and set them loose on the streets of New Haven.


Other ideas include a video documentary of the Groton anti-Trident submarine demonstration and a 16mm short entitled "The Hanged Man" which is a ten minute "futurist adventure" currently in production.


The biggest obstacle University Pictures must face is fund raising. It takes a careful film maker to keep the cost of a ten minute, 16mm movie under $1,000. University Pictures will consider using less expensive video tape. But as Lee puts it, "Video is like tissue paper, and film is like canvas."


At its first organizational meeting, University Pictures attracted over 100 students. "The best thing was that most of them weren't asking for money," said Mark Harris, another co-founder. The recruits were eager to take on the unglamorous tasks of fund raising, publicity and technical support.


Eventually Lee would like to develop a true "film community" at Yale. He and others have considered sponsoring a student film festival later this year. If they can raise the money, University Pictures plans eventually to subsidize student film making ventures on a regular basis.


**Title: The Hart Advantage**

Gary Hart is no front runner in the Democratic race for President, but his supporters at Yale hope to change that. They've launched an aggressive campaign in the dining halls and meeting rooms of Yale to organize student workers to help the Colorado senator's faltering campaign.


Many of their efforts have been geared toward the crucial New Hampshire primary to be held in February. Hart hopes to score an upset in this key race with the help of a large retinue of student volunteers. Traditionally students flock to this small New England state in the weeks leading up to the primary to knock on doors and distribute literature for their favorite candidate. But Hart's supporters have started unusually early. In the first week of this month over 500 students descended upon the state to work for their candidate, 35 of them from Yale.


The Yale group was organized by Peter Henkel, a sophomore in Trumbull whose father is running Hart's national campaign. They hope to return to New Hampshire several times before the big day. "Other Converse initiatives are looking to Yale for support for their campaign," Henkel said. "It's important that our group be well-organized."


Another Yale and candidate Hart connection is a long way back. A graduate from Yale Divinity School in 1974, Hart canvassed extensively at Yale in 1974. His campaign manager, Oliver Henkel, is another '84 Yale graduate.


Most of the other Presidential candidates have established campaign coordinators at Yale but have not begun to campaign as aggressively as Hart. Candidates like Mondale and Glenn have the advantage of greater name recognition, which is precisely what candidate Hart needs to capitalize on before the real campaigning begins.


**Title: Doonesbury: The Musical**
**Page number(s): 9**

Doonesbury is back. After having abandoned their 6-by-2 inch rectangle in newspapers across the country, in December, Boopsie, Zonker, Mike and R.C. will make their first flesh and blood appearance this month.


Gary Trudeau, Yale class of 1970, has turned his talents to musical theater. The Pulitzer Prize-winning cartoonist has written both script and lyrics for a show entitled, not surprisingly, Doonesbury, which will open on Broadway in November after making its debut at Boston's Wilbur Theater.


The musical, in which Trudeau finally lets his characters come of age, takes place in Walden, an off-campus house, during commencement ceremonies. Duke and Honey will return from China and Joanie from the Congressional rat race in order to see the gang graduate. The show features such future musical classics as "It's the Right Time to Be Rich," "Rahy Room Roogat Hoy" and "Muriel and the Topsider."


Doonesbury the musical is not Trudeau's first foray into show business. His animated film "A Doonesbury Special" was nominated for an Academy Award. And he is currently at work on one screenplay about the White House press corps and another about the New Right.


Are there political overtones or cryptic social statements hidden within the latest Trudeau creation? Trudeau's press agent thinks not. But he believes "it might have a special appeal to college students. It's about facing the real world."


Newsjournal written and reported by Anne Applebaum, Joyce Banerjee, Scott Fletcher, Darren Gersh, Paul Hofheinz, Betsy Nix and Mike Otsuka.
Here, Doonesbury, Boopsie, B.D. and Zonker pose for a graduation picture.
PLAYBILL- WILBUR THEATRE
The New Journal/October 21, 1983 9



**Title: The One-man Ministry of Parson Paul**
**Author: Tina Kelley**
**Page number(s): 11-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The One-man Ministry of 
Pars.on Paul 
Paul Keane takes a drag of his 
smoldering cigar as he sits in Patricia's 
Restaurant. "You are unfortunately 
sitting in the presence of a heretic," he 
says, smiling. Parson Paul is not a 
typical Yale Divinity School graduate. 
He is an agnostic who operates a one-
man ministry from his apartment in 
one of the city's low-income housing 
pr~jccts, the Seabury Co-op. The 
patrons at Patricia's know him as The 
Bishop of Broadway, an activist who 
deals with the seamier sides of life in 
New Haven. 

For the past few months Keane has 
been preoccupied with the local prob-
lems surrounding Acquired Immune 
Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS), 
the 
much-publicized disease 
that has 
spread at a geometric rate in the last 
three years among gays, intravenous 
drug users, hemophiliacs, Haitians 
and the sex partners of these groups. 
One day this summer Keane discov-
ered a discarded hypodermic needle in 
the parking lot of the Seabury com-
plex, 
where 
he 
is 
the building 
superintendent. 
He had reason 
to 
believe that prostitutes who frequent 
the area had discarded the possibly 
contaminated needle and that children 
playing there might be in danger of in-
fection. He also accidentally punctured 
himself once with a needle he found in 
the garbage chute. But it wasn't until 
an acquaintance died of AIDS that 
Keane decided to take action. "The 
best ministry for me is in areas people 
won't touch with a ten-foot pole," he 
says. "I love a taboo, so this was for 
me. I knew no one else would do it." 
Keane looks onto Whalley Avenue 
now, more intently than usual. and 
lowers his voice. "Someone died of 
AIDS in Connecticut recently," he 
says. "This was a person who had had 
dozens of sexual contacts with Yale gay 
and bisexual males in the past three 
years. There is also an I. V. drug user 
in New Haven who is a presumed 
AIDS carrier and who continues to 
share needles every day with unsuspec-
ting strangers." 

As a concerned clergyman. Keane is 
facing a problem. Although he knows 
the identities of the victims he men-
tions. he cannot legally reveal them. 
No tests have yet been developed to 
prove that sonwont' has AIDS. whid1 
NEEDLES, 
SEX and 
A.I.D.S. 
"People are now In a state 
- of ethical confusion about 
AIDS." 
takes up to three years to surface. Thus 
it is possible to carry and transmit the 
syndrome without knowing it. If so-
meone is suspected of having AIDS, 
nothing can legally stop him o r her 
from continuing to transmit it. "They 
can't take your rights away without due 
process of the law," Keane says, "and 
there's no proof with AIDS. 
"People are now in a state of ethical 
confusion about the disease," he says. 
"The medical advisors of these victims 
spoke to me in confidence as a clergy-
man about their ethical dilemma. 
They have a professional obligation, 
but they also feel that society has the 
right to be protected. They didn't know 
what to do, and I didn't either." 

He believes education is one of the 
best ways to approach the ethical 
dilemma over AIDS. With the help of 
Yale biology professor Or. 
Alvin 
Novick, Keane produced "Needles, 
Sex, and A.I.D.S." a pamphlet written 
in stn·ct language. "Writing this was a 
compromist' between violating tht' 
rights of the presumed AIDS victims 
and doing nothing," explains Keane. 
"With a typewriter. some stamps and a 
Xerox machine, there are a few things 
I can change without needing 100 ac-
tivists. Doing nothing is immoraL" 

The pamphlet was designed to teach 
methods of avoiding the disease, such 
as taking precautions when having sex 
with members of high risk groups and 
boiling hypodermic needles for 20 
minutes before sharing them. Pro-
duced by an unlikely combination of a 
street minister, 
a 
Yale professor, 
several physicians and a philanthropic 
printer, the pamphlet was distributed 
to the Y.M.C.A.'s drug program, Col-
umbus House, the University Chap-
lain and the Chief of Police. Keane 
wanted to inform and warn the entire 
community. "The news media has 
gone wrong in this area," he says. 
"AIDS is not a gay plague but a public 
health issue. No one deals with the 
other victims: I . V. drug users or bisex-
ual males who have sex with gays, or 
females" (who make up eight percent of 
the AIDS victims). 

Keane is concerned about the syn-
drome's threat to Yale students, both 
gay and straight. He brought the issue 
to the attention of the Yale administra-
tion in September and wrote President 
Giamatti a letter warning him about 
the potential risks. Keane is currently 
working with Peaches Quinn of Uni-
versity Health Services on another 
pamphlet, "A.I.D.S., Sex, and You," 
designed for Yale students. He worries 
about what he calls "a profound 
naivete" at Yale about who's in danger. 
"Anyone who's had sex with people 
whose biographies they don't know 
back at least three years may be at 
risk," says Keane. "People who fre-
quent prostitutes may be putting 
themselves in danger, as prostitutes 
might either use I. V. drugs or have sex 
with those who do. We often think I. V. 
drug users are bums, but we're naive if 
we think Yale students don't use 
recreational needles." 

Since so many people could be in 
danger, Keane feels it is crucial to in-
form the general community about the 
disease. "The people who get AIDS are 
subject to persecution," he says, strok-
ing his beard thoughtfuiJy. "People like 
to hate gays, prostitutes and drug 
users. But everyone has a right ,to be 
healthy, to be informed that they're at 
risk. 
The New Journal/October 21, 


"The public is susceptible to gossip 
and fear," he says. "Without facts, 
we're likely to become witch-hunters, 
but with AIDS there are enough facts 
around so we don't have to surrender 
to the animal instinct to hate. We can 
let people hear the facts and become 
less afraid. It's like applying salve to a 
wound. I believe you cure fear with 
facts." 

What Keane fears most is a recurrence 
of the kind of uninformed lynch-mob 
mentality he saw while he was atten-
ding Kent State University. Keane 
was a graduate student at the Ohio 
university when National Guardsmen 
killed four student protesters on May 
4, 1970. "I was close enough to see the 
smoke from the guardsmen's rifles," he 
says. "Then I heard somebody shout 
'They killed him!' I looked down and 
saw Jeffrey Miller on the ground. His 
head had been blown off. I remember 
seeing the mother of a Kent State stu-
"The news media has gone 
wrong In this area. AIDS is 
not a gay plague, but a 
public health Issue." 
dent on a document.ary film. She said, 
'If my son had long hair and sandals, 
he should have been shot, too.' That 
was a quality of human fear I'll never 
forget." 

Keane remained at Kent State for 
four years, studying and working to 
obtain a federal grand jury investiga-
tion into the incident. "After the 
shootings I couldn't concentrate," he 
says. "I kept taking courses and drop-
ping them, and it took me that long to 
get a two-year degree." 

After the killings Keane became 
more and more politically active, form-
ing a liaison between the university, 
the White House and the parents of the 
victims. He helped collect 50,000 
signatures calling for federal investiga-
tion into the incident. As a result the 
National Guardsmen were required to 
testify under oath, a national prece-
dent. Keane later coordinated the 
Center for Peaceful Change, which 
commemorated the deaths at Kent 
State. 


**The Kent State Papers**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
of papers on the killings and gave them 
to Yale. "Kent State University was a 
puppet of Ohio," he says, "and couldn't 
be counted on to protect those docu-
ments. It would give me no guarantee 
that they would be kept safe. Having 
the archives here is an irritation and 
embarrassment to Kent State and 
Ohio, a constant reminder that justice 
has not been done." 


The Kent State episode left its scars 
on Parson Paul, including the begin-
nings of a drinking problem. "Drink-
ing was a way of escaping the tremen-
dous anger I felt afterwards. I was a 
victim of a cultural prejudice that 
smart people can't be alcoholics. I 
thought I was too intelligent to have a 
drinking problem." With the help of 
Akoholics Anonymous, he stopped 
drinking several years ago. "It was one 
of the most powerfully spiritual ex-
periences of my life." 


Ih 1976 he enrolled in the Yale 
Divinity School "to find out if God 
could be responsible for events like 
Kent State. I wan ted to find out the 
truth. The truth is that no one knows 
it, and that's a tremendous relief. I'm 
relieved of the burden of not having 
found it. There's no knowledge, just 
faith. I've received a tremendous gift in 
learning to see that I'm free, that I'm 
not a prisoner of anyone's creed and 
neither is anyone else." 


While at the Divinity School he 
established 
the 
First Church of 
Synergy in 1977, founded on the 
theory of R . Buckminster Fuller that 
the whole is more than the sum of 
its 
parts. 
K eane's Congregation 
of four graduated with him in 1980. A 
year later he published Holy Smoke, 
essays collected in a biblical parody 
that depicts M ae West in terms of 
ministry and sp irituality and includes a 
Book of Lennon. Said Divinity School 
professor R owan A. Greer in his in-
troduction to the work: "It is as a gad-
fly that Mr. Keane serves us best. 
Someone has to observe the emperor's 
new clothes for what they are. It is a 
voice worth hearing." 


Parson Paul's creed is closely tied to 
his activism. "I just can't stand the way 
things are sometimes. I don't know 
where that comes from. Maybe it's a 
higher power that gives me a drive to 
do something, a drive from beyond," 
he says. "But when you narrow it down 
and call it God or J esus, it's unfair to 
those who don't know about them. I 
see J esus as the ultimate pantheism. 
Everyone has his own. Oral Roberts 
has one. Norman Vincent Peale has 
one. It's almost like the pantheon of 
Greek gods, but they're all Jesus. The 
"FuO of good, sol# stuff . .. It malces 
result is a grotesque monotheism. 
lively r«Jding. • -Thomas Bergin, Yale 
"I believe somehow I was carried 
along .by an energy higher than my own 
to be useful to the community," says 
the life-long New H aven area resident. 


He g1ves the example of h1s AIDS r 
-· raphy that bring today's campus closer to 
work. The pamphlet came together ef-
home. 
fortlessly requiring only two and a 
Yale's award-winning news 
magazine 
half mon~hs to bring it to the atte ttion 
reaches over 10,~ readers in the Yale-~e:w 
' 
Haven commumty ... and now you can JOin 
of the highest authorities, where it 
them . 
· 
could change the politics of the disease. 
For only S7 a year or 112 for 2 years, you can 
"People would come up and tell me in-
subscribe to The New.Joumal. Sendtcheck to: 
formation I couldn't have found out ifl 
were a triple agent," he says. "It's not a 
coincidence to me. It couldn't be. 


"I understand all the arguments 
against the existence of God," he 
quickly adds, "and I'm the hardest-
baked agnostic there is. But I do 
believe in th e spiritual aspect of life. 
The power gives you energy and com-
passion that you wouldn't believe you 
could have, simply given the chemical 
components. of your body. I really 
believe it can make you more than the 
sum of your parts. That's not some-
thing you get through prayer, not 
something you get through sitting in a 
piece of real estate called a church." In-
stead Keane ascribes to the idea of "a 
church without walls" and calls his 
work "an unauthorized, unacknowl-
edged and unsolicited ministry. No big 
shot can tell me to shut up or he'll take 
my church away." 


Keane doesn't believe in bowing 
down and worshipping this power. "I 
believe you worship when you revere 
something that is sacred," he says. "I 
believe human life is sacred, and be-
tween Kent State and this AIDS thing, 
I've spent a good deal of my time pay-
ing homage to the sacredness of human 
life." 


• 
Tina Kelley, a junior in Morse, is Associate 
Editor of T N] . 

**The Yale Entrepreneurs: Free Enterprise Comes of Age on Campus**
**Author: Peggy Edersheim**
**Page number(s): 14**

Take Bill Funderburke, for example. Here was a,. fairly 
unassuming student who needed to make some money for 
the parties he was throwing last year in Morse. One even-
ing when he was working on a three-page paper for an in-
vestment banking course, Funderburke struck upon the 
idea of the Beer Glove. "I was holding a beer at a party one 
·Tuesday night," he remembers, "and my hands were freez-
ing because the beer was so cold. I could have used a Beer 
Glove then, something insulated to keep my hands warm 
and·the beer cold." 


So Funderburke got $300 together, bought a few dozen 
gloves and located a silk screener to print a big blue "Y" on 
the back. He made plans to sell the gloves at keg parties, 
festivals and tailgates, and he even tried to get the name 
registered as a trademark:' After he graduated, though, 
Funderburke got involved in other things, and his Beer 
Glove died an untimely death in a cardboard box. 


Funderburke is only one example of a growing number 
of Yale students who are turning to free enterprise between 
classes. Whether they are successful or not, these people 
have an idea, and the idea is to make something out of 
nothing-for a profit. They are the Yale entrepreneurs. 


There's Dana How, a sophomore in Stiles, who used his 
computer skills to pay for his senior year at Exeter and his 
freshman year at Yale. How formulated a small data base 
program for the Apple Computer which impressed a 
distributor so much that he had it licensed. There's Jack 
Meyers, a senior in Davenport, who found an original way 
to make his commercial pilot's license profitable. He hired a 
professional photographer to fly with him in one of Yale's 
planes and take a series of aerial shots of the campus. 
l\1eyers enlarged the photographs and will soon be selling 
them as posters for $5-20, depending on size. He'll also be 
flying over the Bowl during the tOOth Anniversary of the 
Harvard-Y al4! game, taking shots to sell to alumni, parents 
and students. 


Then there's Brian Hammerstein, a Silliman senior who 
took the year off to run a small computer software opera-
tion out of his apartment in the Taft; senior Rob Morrow 
and Victor Caston who managed a small printing business 
in New Haven last summer; Mario Verdolini and Peter 
Phleger, two Silliman juniors, who started a bakery in 
Boothbay Harbor; and lvor Benjamin, '83, an MB&B Ma-
jor and a Yale rower who somehow found time to establish 
~d manage Yale Audio, a highly successf~l student agen-
cy. 


This is not to mention the dozens of students who work 
for the other more-or-less lucrative agencies and organiza-
tions on campus-like the Yale Ring Agency, Yale Student 
Laundry, Yale Cap and Gown Agency, Yale T-shirt Agen-
cy, Yale Appliance Agency and the seven film societies. 


It wasn't long ago when most students at Yale frowned 
upon this kind of home-grown capitalism, thought it was 
crass and silly and exploitative. It wasn't long ago when 
"going into business" was taken as a sign of selling out. But 
now attitudes are beginning to change. "Business as a pro-
fession is perceived far less negatively now than it was five 
years ago," says Ted Noyes, last year's director of Yale 
Career Advisory and Placement Service (now called 
University Career Services). "Two years ago, the number 
of seniors participating in the recruiting process in the 
private sector jumped by 30 percent. About 50 percent of 
the class of 1983 applied for jobs in the business world." 


Another indication of the new attitude towards business 
on campus is the recent popularity of two organizations: 
The Yale Student Investment Group (an organization of 
some 70 students who manage a portfolio of S 100,000) and 
AISEC (an international business exchange network for 
students). Initiated in 1948, Yale's AISEC chapter was one 
of the most successful in the country throughout the 1950s, 
according to the organization's president Alex McCredis. 
"But student p·articipation petered out during the Vietnam 
years when business was taboo," explains McCredis. "Then 
AISEC faded away completely. Last year, though, the pro-
grams' resurgence began, and now AISEC is as strong as 
ever." McCredis himself is something of a student entrepre-
neur- he runs a year-round sailboat 'rental business that he 
coordinates with a partner living in Greece. 


But it would be a mistake to call the new attitude toward 
business a sign of increased pre-professionalism on the 
campus. Susan Hauser, the new director of University 
Career Services, thinks the changes extend beyond Yale. 
"Attitudes have changed clearly and markedly toward 
business," says Hauser. "It has become acceptable for 
students to want to be comfortable, to quite a different 
degree than it was 10 years ago. It's orice again acceptable 
for students to wish to espouse their parents' lifestyle." 


We've selected a half dozen profiles that we think docu-
ment the turn toward free enterprise at Yale-six stories of 
student entrepreneurs who, like Joel Goodson in the now-
classic Risley Business, put their ideas together and made a 
buck ... 


**Dan Slavin: A College Junior's Ferrari**
**Page number(s): 15**

DAN SLAVIN KEEPS A POSTER 
of a red Ferrari on his wall in Morse. 
"A Ferrari is the ultimate toy," Slavin 
grins, "hut I don't think I'll buy one 
yet." H e doesn't think that a 19-ycar-
old like himself should he able to afford 
a Ferrari. Rut he can. 


Acting as a middleman between a 
few computer product suppliers and a 
handful of large customers (including 
Yale University 
Pun·basing 
Department), Slavin has managed to 
gross $10.000-$15.000 since .June. 
And now he is working on a computer 
deal whi<·h could earn him over a 
quarter of a million dollars this year. 


Not had for a colkge junior who 
spends his afternoons punting footballs 
fi1r Yak. 


But Slavin is the kind of person who 
is 
full of surprises. 
An dectrical 
engineering m~jor, Slavin is founder 
and owner of Ryt<· Computer St•rvin·s. 
which he operat<·s singlc-handt•dly out 
of his 1"<10111 in Mors<·. His hottest it<·m 
is the Maxdl Disk<·tte. which he sells 
li1r $29 (box of I 0) almost exdusivt·ly 
to hulk huv<·rs like univ<·r·sities and 
large 
firm~. Sinn· Slavin is 
self-
nnployed- and sinn• ht• has almost no 
ov<·rhead- he can un<krsdl even t ht• 
largt• mail orde1· Sl'rvin·s which adve•·-
tize tht• lowt•st pr·ices on t he market. 


Slavin's higg<·st t'XJH'rHiitun· is the 20q-
stamp ht• puts on tht• onkr· fi1rms. H t• 
doesn't even pay salt·s tax on his pur-
chases-t'V<'l'Ything he buys conH·s 
from tax-fn•t· Pennsvh-ania. 


"Now l'n1 in the .right plan· at the 
right time. and I'm capitalizing on 
that." ht• says. "Wht·n l'lll not, I'll stop 
and find sollH'thing else to do. I'm go-
ing to milk this li1r all it's worth and 
tht'll mm·t· on. Most peopk think I'm 
full of it when I talk about how nnrch 
money I'm making. Sonw peopk think 
I'm obnoxious. and 1 hey'n· right. I 
0)>1'11 II IV n11111 h too llltJ('h." 


Slavin was aln•ady an entrepreneur 
when h1· got to Yak. In his senior· year 
of high school lw made a I idy li1rllllll' 
-SOI\H' $4000-fixing lawn IIIOWel'S 
and small t'ngines lin· honH'OWIH'I'S in 
suburban Philaddphia. 


Slavin 
has 
always ht'l'll a fixer. "That's what I 
n·<tlly do," ht· says. "I fix things." Hut 
Slavin's love for tinkering didn't st•em 
to fit in so wdl with Gianwtti's Yak. "I 
1 didn't comt• ht·n· f{,,. liberal arts." ht• 
says. "I came here 
for 
electrical 
enginening. 
History 
is secondary. 
Humanities courses will make me a 
better person. but I don't have a great 
nt·ed to karn the stuff." 


Slavin gets the most pleasure out of 
learning how to fix things- how to 
take things apart and put them ha<·k 
togetht•r. For him possessions-likt· the 
Panasonic phone machine he just 
bought himself or the Ft•rrari on the 
wall- arl' like toys. "I was reading an 
a1·tide in Plavhov last month about not 
going out a~d .buying evnything you 
want at once. hut spreading it OVl'r a 
(>t'riod of ti111e. It's silly to wastt• 
S!lO,OOO on ;1 nt·w sports car unkss 
you're rl'allv making a lot in the first 
i>lacl'. It w<;uld be,; typically 19-ycar-
old thing to do." 


**Joe Gromacki: Poultry Farming**

HIS CASUAL MANNER DOESN'T 
u·iggcr the imagt• of a high-intensity 
stucknt cntn·pn•nt·ur. H is curly blond 
hair and his pink cheeks don't fit tht• 
hig-husim·ss mold. Rut .Joe Gromat·ki, 
a fn·shrnan who gn·w up in the rural 
Midwest, has gmssl'd ovn $10,000 in 
tht· last few yt•ars- poultry farming. 


It · was 
st•ven 
years ago 
when 
Gromacki went out and bought his 
first two hens and a rooster. From this 
initial investment, he cultivated a suc-
cessful business of raising and breedi.J.!g_ 
chickens out of his grandmother's barn 
in Sussex. Wisconsin. 


Although he scaled down the opera-
tion before coming to Yale this fall, 
Gromacki has invested in a new $2500 
barn and has built up a flock of birds 
worth $6000 that includes some 45 dif-
ferent breeds and varieties. 


Like most businessmen, Gromacki 
advertises extensively but his medium 
i!; a little different from most. He 
plan·s ads in commercial yearbooks 
and trade magazines throughout the 
year- among them, 
a 
publication . 
called Th,. Poultry Pun. Aside from 
keeping the business going, Gromacki 
has also served as the Wisconsin State 
director for two national poultry clubs 
and as a membt·r of the board of d irec-
tors 
Wisconsin 
Poultry 
Breeding Association. 


Gromacki conducts most of his 
business, however , at the numerous 
poultry shows that are held i'n the 
Midwest and the South, particularly in 
K ansas and Missouri. He attends



**Poultry, Bagels, and Rock 'n' Roll: Yale's Entrepreneurial Spirit**
**Author: Peggy Ednsheim**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
about 15 shows a year in America and 
Canada. At one show last year, he sold 
a national champion White W yan 
Dotte Bantam hen for 
$200 and 
another 160 chickens for a total of 
$700. 

Gromacki's already thinking about 
law school these days, but he is ob-
viously devoted to his llock. "I'd like to 
keep the busin(!SS going so that I can 
come back to my birds after college," 
says Gromacki. "My grandmother says · 
I have poultry farming in m y blood." 

EVEN IF SKIP KLEIN DIDN'T 
know the ingredients in a cinnamon-
raisin bagel, that wouldn't have stop-
ped him from trying to sell it. When he 
was at Yale, Klein was always the-
organizer. He was the idea man, the 
entrepreneurial· spark behind such 
ventures as Boola-Bagels and The 
Great American Heroes Film Society. 
He worked with Rob Glaser as the 
marketing wizard in Ivy Research, a 
computer sofiware company at Yale. 
Although his 
100-page 
economics 
thesis on Yale's endowment portfolio 
has served as a useful and original 
document on Yale's 
investment 
policies, Klein had a rocky time as an 
undergraduate entrepreneur. 

NoWhe is earninR a Ph.D . in Bus-
iness and Economics/MBA and mak-
ing big plans for a future in investment 
management. In a few years he wants 
to form a small investment manage-
ment firm with five other Yalies that 
will handle individua~ portfolios rather 
than pension funds. "It's a pipe dream , 
he admits "but it's certainly within the 
realm of possibility." 

As freshmen, Klein and his room -
mates engineered the construction of 
the world's largest bagel as a publicity-
garnering event for Boola Bagels, a 
bagel dC"Iivery service. Neither 60 
pounds of dough nor clever slogans like 
"Lox et veritas" could save the faltering 
venture. The 
business had only 
managed to pay its masterminds a 
wage of $1.00/hr. 

Klein's next venture was no more 
successful. Seeing the success of the 
James Bond Film Society, Klein and 
his roommates created The Great 
American Heroes Film Society, which 
showed Clint Eastwood and W ood y 
Allen films. After netting only about 
$1.00 an hour Klein left the film socie-
ty business once and for all. The 
following year, 
howeve r , 
ne w 
managers took over Spectrum Films 
and it began to turn a profit. 

Whether or not Klein was successful 
as a student en trepreneur at Yale, he 
was always a kind of spokesman for the 
cause of free enterprise on campus. 
o ften wearing a suit or a bow tie and 
talking the language of big business. In 
that respect, Klein hasn't changed a 
bit. "When you start a business, you 
find a need and address it," he says. "In 
this sense, you are serving a positive 
social function. Capitalism, really, is 
llnother form of altruism. 

"During thl· sixties people looked 
down their noses on someone who 
hustled to make a buck. Now it's sort of 
respected . It's not a crime anymore. 
Still, there an· always people who look 
down their noses at business. 'Here he 
is,' they say, 'trying to play his little 
games. 
H e's trying 
to 
be a big 
businessman .' But people began to 
realize that it's an interesting thing to 
do, something more and more respec-
table. Now they're saying, 'I wish I had 
done something like that.'" 

"YOU C AN'T WRITE A GOOD 
pop song unless it's marketable," says 
Scott Young, lead vocalist for the five-
piece, 
all-Yale 
group, 
Busload of 
Nuns. "That's the whole point of rock 
a nd roll.'' A jul')ior in Pi er<~on College, 
Young plan·s a high premium on the 
a rtistic integrity of his music. But he 
and the Nuns arc al-;o quite serious 
about breaking into the music business 
after they ~radu att•. Young realizes 
that tht• clays are gone wht•n all a suc-
cessful rock and roll band had to have 
was a mc<;sagc. 

The 
Nuns. 
who 
bt"~a n playing 
st·riously 
last !'pring have alrl·ady 
recorded 
two albums, "Busload of 
Nuns," a nd "Red All Over," and plan a 
third. Along with recording efforts, 
the Nuns also set up an extensive 
tour of the N o rthl·a<~t t·olle~t· circuit for 
this fall. "At the collt·gcs, we ask f<lr 


**Yale Entrepreneurs: Part II**
**Page number(s): 17-18**

$600 to $600 per concert," explained 
Young. "Rut we have enough faith in 
our drawing power to ask for h<;tlf the 
money made at the door in addition." 

On O<·tober 29th, the Nuns will return 
to Berkeley College where they played 
last spring. 

Rusim·ss and art, however, don't 
mix easily for the Nuns. "You go 
through periods of moral dilemma," 
admitted Young. "I feel like I don't 
want to ht· bothned about the money 
part of it, hut tht·n I realize that it is 
important. I want to makt• a living at 
this someday." 

Although they are admittedly pre-
pmf't·ssional in their approach, the 
Nuns ft·el that they havt• an <·dge ovt:r 
tht·ir dassrnatt·s who will line up at 
University Cart•t•r Services this spring. 
"Students do a lot of things here 
be<·ause they are s<·ared that they won't 
have anything to do when they leave 
school," said Mike Deneen, DC '85, 
the keyboard plavt·r for the Nuns. "I'm 
doin'g what I like to do." 

To dat<'. the Nuns have reinvested 
most of their profits back into the 
hand. taking advantage of the cushion 
of collt•gt· and building a strong base 
fi1r 
1 he fu t 11 re. 
Rut, as the band 
het·onH·s i ncn·asingly successful, the 
artistic sa<Tilin·s l)('nmw gn·atcr and 
gn·atcr. "()w· new songs are absurdly 
pop-<'mharassingly pop." admitted 
Young. "Sometimes, I feel like Shaun 
Cassidy when I'm singing." 

WHEN 
ROLLIN 
RIGGS AND 
Bruce .Jacobsen 
got 
together 
in 
Calhoun two years ago and decided to 
put together a student guidebook to 
spring break in Florida, the two 
juniors knew next to nothing about the 
publishing business. But after comple-
ting the manuscript and submitting it 
to Arbor House in Manhattan, they 
realized that writing a book isn't all its 
cracked up to be. Among other things, 
they learned that once the contract is 
completed, it's the publisher not the 
writer who tails the shots. "We gave 
them an 'R' rated book and they turned 
it into a 'PG'," Riggs complained. 

So when the two student journalists 
got together a year later and decided to 
put out another guidebook, this time 
about Europe, they chose to go about it 
a little diiTerently: They formed their 
own publishing company. 

R.J publications in New Haven may 
not be the most prestigious publishing 
house on the planet, but for a fledgling 
firm run by two members of the class 
of 1982 it is off to a impressive start. 
Riggs and .Jacobson already have three 
books under contract. A guide to bars, 
discos and off-the-beaten-track spots in 
Europe called Europe: Where The Fun Is 
will appear this spring. It was compiled 
last summer with reports written most-
ly by Yak students on tour in Europe. 
The Cnmpltle Book of Beer Drinkin.~ will 
appear sometime next year. It prom-
ises to give complete instructions for 
over 50 drinking games, including 
Whale's Tales, 
Slush Fund, 
Beer 
Hunter and th<· infamous Thumper. 
You too can be a Dmzocratic Candidau for 
President is slated to appear next spring 
as well. 

Riggs had already distinguished 
himself as a successrul stucfent en-
trepreneur of sorts even before he a nd 
J acobsen produced The R ius of Spring: 
A Student's Guide To Spring Break . in 
Florida. 

As a 
well-known campus 
photographer, Riggs managed to sell a 
large number of his photographs to 
Time, ~ewsweek and the New York Times 
· when he wasn't shooting photos for the 
Yale Daily News and The New Journal. 
He made a small fortune off a series of 
pictures he had taken of Jodie Foster in 
the weeks followingJohn Hinckley's at-
tempted assassination of President 
Reagan. Between his photo work and 
the book, Riggs missed a lot-of classes, 
but by that time academics had 
become a second priority for him. "It's 
easier to blow off classes when you're 
paying for them," he explains. 

J acobsen, a reporter who worked for 
the 
Har~ford Courant and the Miami 
Herald, doesn't understand the qualms 
that many students have had about the 
idea of turning a profit. "People who 
make money aren't using a gun to hold 
up a bank," he says. "They are supply-
ing a product. And everything costs 
money- how do people think their tui-
tion is being paid for?" 

Riggs agrees: "I think people are just 
now waking up to the fact that m oney 
in the checking account is not neces-
sarily a bad thing. It's what you choose 
to do with that money that you can ap-
ply a moral value to. Making money is 
not necessarily exploitation. The best 
thing I can do for the world is to be a 
productive person." 

W H EN ROB GLASER GRADU-
ated last May, he had most of the Yale 
campus fooled. Just about everyone 
had him pegged as Glaser, the arch-
liberal of Yale's already decidedly 
liberal politics, the prolific author of 
"What's Left" in the Yale Daily News, 
the guy who wore a purple ribbon for 
the oppressed people of America and 
El Salvador. Glaser was the one who 
organized a student march on the 
Green against Reaganomics in 1980. 
In his four years here1 he debunked 
just about every vestige of conser-
vatism and big-business at Yale. ~u re­
ly the last thing people expected from 
Glaser was the spirit of capitalism. 

The New J ournai/October 21, 1983 


**Title: Life and Death at the Grove Street Cemetery**
**Author: Anne Applebaum**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Across the street from the Law School's back door stands a massive stone gateway. The slogan over its archway seems to forbid entrance: "The Dead Shall Be Raised." Yet if you gather the courage to walk underneath, you enter another world. You have no more deadlines, no appointments to keep, no people to see. You have left Yale. You have entered the New Haven City Burial Grounds, the Grove Street Cemetery.


If you walk past the cemetery chapel, you might run into a small man raking leaves or trimming hedges. Bill Cameron is as weather-beaten and grizzled as the stones he cares for. Yet he wears a peddler's cap tilted at a surprisingly cocky angle for a cemetery groundskeeper. When he speaks, his voice reflects a cheerful absence of morbidity. 
"I like working here. It's peaceful, and I have a lot of time to think." 
Cameron gathers a few stray sticks. "I remember once we had a man here- temporary help. After three days he said he'd made the most important discovery of his life. Said he'd discovered that rich or poor, everybody ends up in the same place. It's true too. No one here can pretend he's better than anyone else." 
But the Grove Street Cemetery does contain a disproportionate number of the wealthy. Anyone familiar with New Haven geography could recognize more than a few of the names on the gravestones: Hillhouse, Ashmun, Woolsey, Farnam, Bingham. It was James Hillhouse himself, Yale class of 1773, who made the original decision to build the cemetery in response to the "many inconveniences the citizens of New Haven have experienced from the small portion of ground allotted for burial of the dead." Until that time New Haven had buried its dead on the ·Green in the center of town. Children and dogs could play freely among the gravestones there, and because no one bothered to care for them, the stones had become crooked and unsightly. So like the good New England Yankee that he was, James Hillhouse called a town meeting in 1796, took up a collection, bought two farms on the outskirts of town, sold plots and established the New Haven City Burial Grounds. 
Ceremoniously, the remains of the more prominent citizens buried under the Green were moved to the crypt of Center Church. A few still remain unmarked and forgotten beneath the Green. 
The Grove Street Cemetery was one of the first American cemeteries to sell family plots by contract, making it also one of the first corporations in America. "Back then it mattered that you were near your family," says Cameron. "No one wanted to be left without his relations. I feel the same way, and I hope my children will, but I don't know whether young people today still do." Cameron walks over to one of the larger family plots and smiles. "Now there's someone who cared who remembered him." He points to Henry Trowbridge's tombstone, a 40-foot obelisk that towers over the other graves. Cameron shrugs. "Competition. Keeping up with the Joneses." 
The most famous graves in the cemetery are often the most modest. Nothing but a name and date appear on Noah Webster's grave. Another tombstone reads simply, "Charles Goodyear- Inventor." Most of the modern graves are also very plain, but Cameron says that's for another reason. "It costs too much," he explains. "People just don't care enough anymore." 
A few of the plots at Grove Street still have iron railings around them originally built to keep the cows out. But the citizens of New Haven had most of these railings removed during World War II. "The iron has to be converted into munitions of war to be hurled by the allies at the .Japs and Hitler," explained the New Haven Register. "Lots of uses for a few pieces of iron," says Cameron. 
Cows had ceased to be a problem on Grove Street by 1845 when the city of New Haven and its Volunteer Ladies Charity Fair pooled together enough money to erect the stone fence around the burial ground that stands today. A compromise between various religious groups resulted in the "Egyptian-style" gateway, a seemingly incongruous choice for a Puritan New England town. Yale History of Art Professor Vincent Scully notes the "machine-like interpretation of the originally graceful Egyptian columns. They are ridged like gears, not a surprising phenomenon in the industry-minded 19th century." 
Less explicable is the strange motif crowning the gateway. The symbol combines the hawk wings of the Egyptian sun god with the intertwining serpents emblematic of the pharoahs of the Upper Nile. The symbol appears in one other place at Yale: over the fireplace in the old fraternity house of OKE, now the AYA building on York Street. OKE was founded at approximately the same time as the gateway's construction. The inscription above the symbol, "The Dead Shall Be Raised," inspired Yale President Arthur Hadley to comment in 1845: "They certainly


There are two plots exclusively for Yale faculty at Grove Street directly alongside plots given to the New Haven churches. Yale Historian Loomis Havemeyer suggested that the proximity of these plots proves that "academic and spiritual blood now flows through the same veins. Church and college are together in life and in death not divided." 
One incident in 1824 almost did rupture Yale's amicable relationship



**Grove Street Cemetery: A Haven of History and the Haunting Absence of Ghosts**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Von Staden: "If there were a ghost, it would be benign. And 
isn't it the non-benign kind we hear from?" 
22 The New J ournal/October 21, 1983 
with the cemetery's management. A 
desperate shortage of cadavers appears 
to have driven Yale medical students to 
grave robbery. In the ensuing furor, 
New Haven rioters broke every win-
dow in the Medical School, which 
stood where Becton Center is today. 
According to legend the Med School 
had constructed a series of tunnels 
underneath Prospect Street into the 
graveyard to facilitate the fresh flow of 
cadavers. But the details of this early 
19th century scheme still remain, if 
one 
will 
pardon 
the 
expression, 
shrouded in m ystery. 


Currently Yale's major interaction 
with the cemetery occurs once a year 
when variou s secret societies conduct 
initiation rites. "They always ask per-
mission, 
though," says Cameron. 
"Sometimes they leave a few candles 
around. We don't really ask them what 
they do." During one initiation scandal 
in the 1860s stories were told of several 
freshmen who were forced to lie buried 
in the graveyard. Nothing was proven, 
although the popularity of freshman 
fraternities began to wane not long 
afterward. 


Heinrich Von Staden, M aster of 
Stiles College, regretfully noted that 
despite a rededication of Stiles's grave-
stone two years ago, no rumblings 
have been heard from Stiles's grave. "If 
there were •.a ghost, it would be 
benign," he commented. "And isn't it 
usually the non-benign kind we hear 
from?" 


It does seem that the Puritans and 
worthy citizens who populate Crove 
Street must have died almost uniform-
ly at peace with themselves because 
most of the time ghosts are not a prob-
lem at Grove Street. Bill Cameron 
should know. He sometimes has to 
spend the night there on Halloween. 
"Have to keep a lookout for vandals. 
You know, kids who want to come and 
knock over tombstones because it's Oc-
tober 31st." Cameron isn't scared on 


those nights. "I only feel a little tense at 
first. All that stuff they tell you when 
you're a kid sticks with you. I don't 
think I'd be scared if I did see a ghost. 
I'd be more afraid of someone who was 
alive." 


Vandals do pose a more serious 
problem for the cemetery grounds-
keeper than ghosts. It is not uncom-
mon for Cameron to find a pushed-
over gravestone or a broken statue on a 
Monday morning. Aside from grave 
desecration of this sort, there have also 
been a number of muggings and one 
attempted rape reported within the last 
several years. While no incidents have 
been recorded recently, the cemetery is 
still not considered safe after twilight, 
and most Yale students tend to keep 
away unless they're looking for trouble 
or a late-night adventure. 


"It's all from the same source- the van-
dals, the people who don't care about 
cemeteries any 
more," complains 
Malcolm 
Munson, 
cemetery's 
superintendent. "They've all lost a 
sense of history that people back then 
had. If you love history, you love your 
l~t mily and vour past. Mmlt-rn lift' got•s 
too f~sst. Fmnilit·s hrt'ak up. Childrt>n 
kavt•. No ont' stays." Tht' sunlight 
gkams ofT Munson's glasses. Ht', at 
least. is staying. 


A quiet gentleman in his 70s, Mal-
colm Munson has worked at Grove 
Street for over 50 years and claims to 
know everything about it except the 
exact number of people buricd there. 
He sees to the financial and ollicial side 
of the cemetery's operation rather than 
its physical upkeep. 
His offke is 
sparse, functional. On one wall hangs 
a large map of the cemetery with each 
plot owner's name on it. In tht· corner 
stands a wooden cabinet containing the 
remains of the cemetery records. 


Munson explains that running a 
cemetery involves a certain amount of 
flexibility. Two weeks ago, for in-
stance, then· was a wedding held in 
Grove Street. A wedding in a ceme-
tery? "Actuallv it was quit·e nit·e," 
recalls Munson. Even a simple burial 
can involve complications for Munson. 
"Everyone wants to have the funeral 


his own way. They all have their own 
traditions. I suppose at bottom they're 
all the· -;am<'.n While- Grovt' Stn·c·t'o; in· 
habitants are mostly white Christians. 
there are several Jewish graves and 
even a few blacks. "We had a .Jewish 
burial last week," said Munson. "It was 
no different. Only different words." 


Funerals today are drastically dif-
ferent from those held in Grove Street 
in the 19th century. "Wine or spirits" 
were customarily served until 1826. 
The deceased were carried to the grave 
on the shoulders of several pallbearers, 
and bells tolled for every burial until 
1830. Funerals were also much more 
likely to be important social occasions. 
"People died younger then, so death 
was much more a part of daily life," ex-
plains Munson. "You see many ex-
amples of husbands with more than 
one wife simply because women were 
much more likely to die in childbirth. 
You can also tell which were the plague 
' years because whole families will have 
died within a month of each other." 


One of Bill Cameron's favorite 
places is the cemetery's northwest cor-
ner where the tombstones from the 
original buriaJ ground on the Green 
lean along the waJI. The stones were 
first moved by YaJe students and set up 
in order of prestige outside Center 
Church. When they were again moved 
to Grove Street around 1800. they 
were arranged in alphabetical ordl·r. 
"See what 1 mean?" Cameron shakes 
his head. "After a while everybody 
ends up in the same place." 


Changes in lifestyle and values from 
New Haven's earliest years are par-
ticularly evident in these older stones. 
Very few modern day druggists c·njoy 
the locaJ fame of Daniel Atwater, who 
died in 
1777. He was a "noted 
Apothecary, "a valuable member of 
society, just and upright in his deal-
ings, generaJiy beneficent to the poor, 
a kind and honorable husband." Mrs. 
Sarah Daggett's descendants said simp-
ly, "Her character is found in Proverbs 
XXXI : 10: 11." That's the verse that 
reads, "Who can find a virtuous 
woman? Her price is above rubies." 


Few women did not contain some 
measure of"virtue," "amiability" or, at 
the very least, "resignation." Yet most 
women were buried in the plots of their 
husbands and under smaller and less 
ornate tombstones.


**A Walk Through Grove Street Cemetery**
**Author: Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Cameron is surprised that no one 
has come looking for Martha Town-
send. "She died in 1797. First burial in 
Grove Street. Usually feminists are in-
terested in stuff like that." 

The· ornat<· graves in the: cemetery 
sometimes do get passed over by 
tourists looking for the resting place of 
Eli Whitney, Roger Sherman, Noah 
Webster or the dozens of other Revolu-
tionary, Civil and Spanish-American 
War veterans who lie there. One 
popular site is the large statue, com-
plete with axe a nd helmet, of J. T. 
Hemingway, New Haven's first fire 
chief. During the C ivil War the grave 
ofTheodore Winthrop, the first Union 
officer killed in battle, received over 
10,000 visitors. The French General 
Lafayette himself paid a visit to the 
cemetery in 1824 to honor its many 
Revolutionary War heroes. 

Yet walking through the cemetery, 
one wonders why it is so deserted. 
Most Yale students know nothing 
about it other than that it is probably 
dangerous and that they should stay 
away. 

"Not 
that 
I 
blame 
you," 
C-ameron savs. "You've probably got 
better things to do. But remembering 
the cemetery reminds you of lots of 
other important things too." 

Cameron is walking through the 
cemetery and pointing ou t his favorite 
gravestones 
in 
the late afternoon 
sunlight. "There's Ashmun, that one in 
front. He was the United States Am-
bassador to Liberia in the 19th cen-
tury. There's a pair of twins right 
behind him, and we've even got one 
dog." T he dog, "Albert: 1845"1848," is 
buried beside his mistress, H arriet 
Braun Smith. Albert's statue sits atop 
the stone with his name carved on a 
banner along the side. 

Cameron does have one epitaph 
which 
he is 
particularly fond of 
reading. It is on the stone of Mary 
Louise Meyers, a poet. The carving 
consists of several verses she wrote in 
1884. It beg~l)S, 
L ~ghts and shadows as they fall, 
Ltavt thtir mark upon tht wall. 
So it is in human lift, 
As wt battk in tht strijt. 

"Awfully 
pretty, 
think," says 
Cameron. 


**The Master in South Africa**
**Author: Kathleen Cleaver interviewing Robin Winks**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

Robin Winks, Master of Berkeley College 
and professor of British history, spent last 
summer in South Africa teaching at the elite 
Afrikaner University of Stellenbosch. 

A 
decision to go to South Africa is a controver-
sial one. For many years various intellec-
tuals, entertainers dnd athletes have r~fused to 
visit the country as a w~y of prote.rtin.l!. its 
open(y racist policies. 

L!fe in South Africa is dominated kY a 
rt~ffid system of racial classifications known 
as "apartheid" which means "separatene.u" in 
Afrikaans, one of the three main lan,l!,uages 
spoken in South Africa. 

Or~l!,inal(y imposed 
by the South African govemment in 1.948 to 
protect the he,l!,emony of the small white 
minority, the system has grown into a rz:l!,id 
social framework which cons(l!,ns the over-
whelmin.tf African majority to a /ffe f!{ 
' economic slavery devoid of legal or political 
r(l!,hts. Since the 1960's the country has com~ 
under increasing international pressure to 
change its policies. 

Winks was invited to teach at Stellenho.rch 
by Herman Guillome, a leadin.l!. Afrikaner 
historian who during several visits to Yale 
found that Winks shared his interest in the 
moral problems posed by teachin,lf history in a 
count~y like South Africa. But when Guil-
lome was denied tenure at Stellenbosch lor 
speaking out a,l!,ainst discrimination in 'his 
country, Winks found his invitation to teach 
history was not valid without his sponsor. 

He went to Stellenbosch a~yway, but on(y 
qfter a,l!,reein.l!. to teach Amm'can economic 
history. 

Winks also traveled extensively throughout 
southern Africa on a lecture tour sponsored by 
the United States /~ormation Agency. He 
spoke on Amvican fore(l!,n policy and race 
relations, black· history and literature and oc-
casionally on detective fiction. One of the 
places he visited was Zimbabwe, a ne~l!,hhor­
ing country which achieved black mqjori~y 
rule in 1.980. 

Kathleen 
Cleaver, 
who interviewed 
Winks, has been inter~.rted in international 
race relations all of her l!{tt. In 1.967 she 
joined the Black Panther Party and r"v~d a.r 
its communications secretary: In 1.96.9 she 
and her husband Eldridge Cleaver went into 
exile in A~l!,ert'a. The Cleavers returned to 
America in 1.975, and Kathleen enrolled at 
Yale in 1981. She is now a senior in 
Calhoun Colle,l!,e. 

TNJ: It's not easy for everyone to get 
into South Africa. They have a rather 
restrictive policy. Did you have any 
difficulty getting there? 

RW: Nothing that could be called 
serious difficulty because I was being 
invited by the university. After I ap-
plied for the visa, however, the issuing 
officer asked me to sign a statement 
that I would write nothing about South 
Africa at any time. I said I wouldn't 
sign that statement , but I would under-
take not to write while in South Africa 
hecause historians didn't work to that 
pare. I wasn't going to produce some 
instant journalism and file stories while 
moving around in South Africa. But I 
wouldn't undertake a statement that 
would prevent me from commenting 
freely and writing about South Africa 
if I wanted to after I returned. And 
that was all right after I said that. They 
removed the need to sign that state-
mt·nt . 

TNJ: How are the students that you 
taught at Stcllenbosch different from 
th<· students that come to an American 
public or private university? 

RW: I was teaching the American 
equivalent of seniors and M.A. can-
didates. These students are in the nar-
row sense of the term quite · well 
educated. In South Africa you begin 
specializing the 
m inute you walk 
through the door. There's no general 
liheral education. This meant that they 
knew very little history, even the most 
fundamental simple references such as 
Woodrow Wilson and the entry into 
World War I- that would often be 
meaningless to them so that the level at 
whkh one would teach fa<·tually had to 
he relatively simple. 

Students in South Africa generally 
do not work very hard. The atmos-
phere of South Africa's unversities, at 
least the white universities, is very 
reminiscent of the 1950's. Films are 
censored; books are censored . The 
book won't twin the university library, 
or it will be kt-pt under lo<·k a nd key for 
spe<'ial study so the university auth-
orities can control and know who is 
reading the book. There's a national 
film board so that the students never 
see the more radical films or films that 
contain sexual references. T he at-
mosphere is very much that of the 
1950's . in the sense that they dress in 
what I would call the bobby sox tradi-
tion. The height of the social occasion 
would be to have at the student union 
building what they call a "sockie," 
which is a shoeless dance. This was lelt 
to be quite daring . 

TNJ: How did you, approach the sub-
ject of apartheid in your lectures? 

RW: There have been American lec-
turers who have gone in and on their 
first lecture insulted everybody in 
South Africa, told them what a hateful 
system it is, and of course the students 
stop coming after the second lecture. 
So you have to be relatively gentle in 
the way in which you try to challenge 
people. 

It is very commonly believed in 
South Africa that the United States is 
very much like South Africa. I felt the 
most productive thing I could do was 
demonstrate to them that while cer-
tainly there had been slavery and a 
long tradition of racism in the United 
States, that the roots of that were often 
different, and it produced a different 
result, and that there really was hope 
for them to bring change. One of the 
deep problems, I think, in South 
Africa is even the liberal Afrikaners 
who would like to change keep saying 
there's no way for us to get out of it. It's 
important, I think, for the outsider to 
say, "No, there are ways to get out of 
it." Otherwise a kind of fatalism sets in, 
and they just sink deeper into apar-
theid. 

TNJ: How do you think, in retrospect, 
the students viewed you? H ow did they 
classify you in terms of American posi-
tions? 

· 
RW: They pretty clearly saw that I was 
an American who very instinctively as 
well as intellectually disapproved of 



**An Interview with RW**
**Author: TNJ**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
--- Page 28 ---

thought it was going to bring utter 
disaster to everyone in the country, 
black and white. I was trying, in a 
sense, to outline for them as the next 
generation of leaders 
alternative 
scenarios for South Africa. And they 
are the next generation of leaders at 
Stellenbosch. Every Prime Minister of 
South Africa but one has come out of 
that university. It's like being at Har-
vard or Yale in the United States or at 
Oxford and Cambridge in England. 
TNJ: What issues were you outspoken 
on? 
RW: I was convinced that the most 
serious matter in South Africa is the at-
tempt on the part of the military, 
which has far more power in the current 
administration, 
to destabilize their 
neighbors. They are systematically try-
ing to undo the governments of Zim-
babwe, Lesotho, Angola, Mozam-
bique and probably Botswana. They 
are certainly not doing anything effec-
tive to stabilize Namibia. And I very 
often and very publicly kept saying 
that the South African government must 
stop this if it declares itself to truly be a 
bulwark of capitalism in southern 
Africa. The capitalists couldn't care less 
about the ideology of the neighboring 
states if those states will deliver high 
quality goods on time. And the mil-
itary therefore is deeply anti-capitalist 
in South Africa and is, in fact, the most 
subversive influence in South Africa, 
far more subversive than any alleged 
left wing or liberationist movement. 
That's a pretty sharp message to be 
delivering, and I delivered it very 
often. It appeared in the press. And yet 
the students kept sitting back waiting 
for somebody to slap my wrist, and 
nobody did. 
TNJ: I take it no South African pro-
fessor could stand up and say that in 
class? Or could they? 
RW: Yes, but they would be im-
mediately identified with what's now 
called the "overexposed enlightened" 
faction. Certainly that group is saying 
exactly what I was saying. They can 
say so certainly without being arrested 
in the night. It's not a police state. One 
shouldn't assume that because you 
speak out against the government that 
some gestapo is going to show up in the 
middle of the night and cart you away. 
To that extent there's freedom of 
speech. Though what will happen is 
that people will find that they are 
blocked in their academic progress. 
TNJ: Like the McCarthy period here? 
RW: Yes. Herman Giliomee (who in-
vited Wink to South Africa) is 
a member of this so-called over-exposed 
enlightened group. He's not going to 
be arrested, and he won't lose his job. 
On the other hand he didn't get pro-
moted to full professor, though he is 
widely 
regarded 
as 
the 
most 
distinguished Afrikaner historian in 
the country. 
TNJ: Would you tell us about your 
visit to Fort Hare in Ciskei? 
RW: Fort Hare is the oldest and most 
distinguished of the black universities. 
It was founded by the British in the 
19th century to train, according to the 
terminology of the time, black leaders. 
Many of the black nationalist leaders 
of other countries are Fort 
Hare 
graduates. It's certainly the liveliest of 
the universities that I visited in South 
Africa, white or black, in the sense that 
students do discuss matters, ask their 
visitors questions sharply and chal-
lenge 
everything 
that 
they 
hear. 
Whether they challenge their own pro-
fessors, I don't know. But I had the 
most exciting intellectual experience at 
that university. I gave a good lecture 
on race relations in the United States. 
Immediately the questions started to 
flow. And they very quickly and skill-
fully turned the questions toward 
South Africa, knowing perfectly well I 
was prepared to speak on that subject 
but had not been invited to speak on 
that subject. The questions went on for 
over an hour afterward. 


--- Page 29 ---

Ten years ago I lectured at every 
university in South Africa. Fort Hare 
University was decrepit, under threat 
of being closed down. I gave a lecture 
to the entire assembled student body 
ten years ago. We met in an old mis-
sionary hall in which the Bureau of 
State Security were present quite con-
sciously, quite physically, standing at 
the back of the room taping my lec-
tures and insisting that any students 
who asked a question had to stand and 
identify themselves by name so they 
could be recorded on the tape which, of 
course, would have an enormously in-
timidating effect upon any questions. I 
said that they could tape my lecture, 
but I would not permit any taping of 
the questions. The lecture was delayed 
about an hour and a quarter before 
they would agree finally to that. So the 
Bureau of State Security rather osten-
tatiously, as soon as I'd finished my 
lecture, undid their tape recorders and 
left. Now we all knew they were setting 
them up somewhere else. I said to the 
students that while it may be that the 
questions are being taped remotely, do 
not state your name. I have no need to 
know what your name is for you to ask 
the question. And a couple of days 
after that lecture I and my escort were 
stopped on the road and delayed to 
such an extent that I wasn't able to give 
my next lecture at the University of 
Zululand because they weren't about to 
have that same scenario played out 
there. 

The difference between ten years 
ago and now is enormous. This time 
there was absolutely no evidence at any 
time that anybody was taping this lec-
ture. There was no hint that people 
had to identify themselves by name in 
order to ask a question. The facilities 
were brand new and very handsome. 
And it clearly is meant to be not only a 
showplace, but also a place that is 
educating a 
new black leadership 
group. 
TNJ: But educating black leadership 
in a context of apartheid. 
RW: Oh, absolutely. 
TNJ: It seems that there's a different 
kind of consciousness among the black 
students in South Africa than there is 
among the white students. 
RW: Oh, I think there is. The very cir-
cumstances of society teach the black 
student to question authority. And the 
circumstances of society at the 
Afrikaans-medium universities in par-
ticular lead the Afrikaans students to 
be intense respecters of authority. I 
had the feeling that I could tell the 
Afrikaans students that the United 
States doesn't consist of 50 states; there 
are 53. And they would write it down 
without someone saying he'd heard dif-
ferently. Or I could tell them the moon 
was made of green cheese. They would 
immediately know that was a lie, but 
they wouldn't tell me they knew it was 
a lie. They would just say quietly in 
their minds that he's lying to us. They 
would feel no need to contradict me. 
Whereas the African students would 
tell me, "We know you're lying to us," 
or "Aren't you making a mistake, 
aren't the facts the following?" It's in 
the culture. 
TNJ: How pervasive is apartheid in 
South Africa? 
As to how pervasive apartheid is, it's 
the one question that any conversation 
comes to. Let me give you an example. 
You'll often be served wine, and the 
conversation will turn to, "Why don't 
you drink our fine wines in the United 
States?" There is only one conceivable 
answer. And that is "We don't wish to 
drink them. It's not because they are 
bad wines. It's not because you 
couldn't deliver them to us cheaply. 
But it would be a political act to drink 
them." Now time and time again I en-
countered folks who didn't understand 
that. That is, they don't understand 
how the apartheid system is related to 
everything else. 
TNJ: 
Do 
you 
believe 
Afrikaner mentality 
is 
rather 
apolitical? 
RW: I'm saying it's rather naive, yes. 
They think of themselves as very 
tough-minded, but they can be easily 
led by the government to believe that 
any protest is Communist-inspired. 
They accept whatever the press prints 
about the United States, and what is 
printed about the United States is 
grotesquely misstated, even factually: 
references in the press to the city of 
Montana in the state of Missoula. The 
level of ignorance, even on the factual 
level, let alone being able to interpret 
and understand, is quite absolutely ap-
palling. 


--- Page 30 ---

TNJ: I'd like to hear how you con-
trasted your visit to Zimbabwe with 
your experience in South Africa. 
RW: Zimbabwe is a country that 
seems to me is working rather well 
given the persistent efforts of South 
Africa to destabilize it. Harare, the 
capital, the former Salisbury, is a 
booming city. I felt I saw mainly signs 
of stability and of good interracial har-
mony. As you walk about in the streets 
of Harare, which is a modern clean ci-
ty, I think that one sees very little sense 
of tension. I think it's a mistake for the 
black African governments to bar 
South Africans from visiting because 
the press in South Africa, while not 
massively censored, is a very restricted 
press. Most white South Africans, in-
cluding those who see themselves as 
liberal, really believe that all black 
African governments are dreadfully 
mismanaged, that every country in 
black Africa is in chaos, that murder is 
occurring on the streets daily, that it's 
unsafe to walk about. They have a 
totally distorted image of what life is 
like in black Africa. People in the United States who 
say "Why don't you choose being discriminated against in South Africa simply 
as those who were discriminated 
against in the United States?" don't 
understand the situation. It's illegal for 
more than three people to meet together 
for political purposes in South 
Africa. You can't have a group of pro-
testers meet and 
carry placards 
because they will 
be immediately 
removed by the police. The system ex-
erts very sharp punishments against 
those who for political or any other 
reasons step out of line. And most pro-
tests develop some violence ultimately. 
TNJ: There's a tendency to compare 
South Africa with the United States 
that obscures some very fundamental 
differences. For unlike the South 
where blacks were imported as slaves, 
in South Africa the Africans were over 
several centuries the target of assaults 
by the whites who attempted to destroy 
their independence, destroy their self-
sufficiency and force the Africans to 
work for them. And to this day it is the 
control of African labor that is a basic 
component of the 
South 
African 
system. For unlike America, South 
Africa's whites are entirely dependent 
upon cheap black labor for their 
economic advantages. 
RW: There is a presumption that there 
are elements that are parallel in the two 
histories. There certainly are not many 
elements that are parallel, but it is 
quite commonly believed by white


**A Conversation on South Africa**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
South 'Africans that there are. They 
are inclined to say that you· did what 
we did. Give us time to work through 
our problem in the way you worked 
through yours. 

In my mind the most important 
matter where there must stop being 
any kind of comparison is that the 
basic thrust of the federal government 
in the United States has almost always 
been toward enforcing civil rights: 'lt 
was 
the central government that 
ultimately forced the Southern states to 
abandon segregation. The thrust in 
South Africa is exactly the reverse, 
Whenever a local community wishes to 
desegregate, when a province would 
like, in fact, to change the law, the 
federal government forces them to 
adhere to the basic canons of the 
Afrikaner 'ideology. 

Don't forget, in a population of 30 
million, 23.5 million are black and 
another four million are Indian and 
Colored. So the whites see themselves 
as enormously threatened by any con-
cepts of "one man, one vote." 

TNJ :. In my opinion the Afrikaner 
ideology seems far closer to that of 
Nazis than that of the American 
slaveholders and their segregationist 
descendants. While slavery in America 
was in conflict with our national ethos 
of equality and liberty, in South Africa 
whites have portrayed themselves as 
ordained by God to rule blacks. They 
see themselves as a m .~ster race, blacks. 
as a subordinate race, and that's the 
way God intended it. 

RW: I'm not really happy in compar-
ing the South Africans to the Nazis, 
though it's a nearer comparison.than to 
the plantation South. But the Nazi 
ideology was for the removal of the 
Jews and the other people defined as 
undesirablP.. It was not to create a 
nredlclalm~. 
depc::ndable, 
qtueS\.t:nl, 
cheap labor force. And in South Africa 
that's the goal. They want predictive 
capacity over a labor force by control-
ling the price of labor, its productivity 
levels and its residence. And that's 
really a different goal than that of the 
Nazis. They may be using Nazi meth-
ods for that goal, but it's a different 
goal. 

I'm not sure that a great number of 
white South Africans any longer would 
defend apartheid on the grounds that 
God ordained it. One of the differences 
I think I detect in these ten years since 
my first visit is a shift toward more 
hard-headed secular defenses. There is 
a movement, for example, in the 
D utch Reformed Church which has 
produced a book called Apartheid is a 
Heresy. These church leaders are argu-
ing that there is nothing to be found in 
the Bible that suggests that apartheid 
was fixed by God. What they are argu-
ing is that it was brought into being for 
particular social goals, and to some ex-
tent those social goals have already 
been achieved, and therefore there is 
no basis for apartheid. 

TNJ: What is your comment on the ef-
fect or desirability of boycotts by artists 
or professionals in pressuring South 
Africa- its 
government and 
its 
1 ·citizens- to change their practices? 

RW: I think by and large the boycott is 
not very significant. To begin with a 
fair number of white performers go to 
South Arrica anyway. Secondly many 
performers who do not go because of 
the bovr.ott are the kind that at least the 
Afrikaner community feel they don't 
wish to hear anyway. They play loud 
noisy music, they're living Godless 
lifestyles and the boycott is simply 
playing into the hands of the right wing 
and fundamentalist religious element 
who would wish to find some other 
means to bar what they like to think of 
as undesirable artistic influence. 

I think the one area where the 
boycott has had real effect is athletics. 
There's no question that the politics of 
sports is much more significant in 
South Africa than in most countries. 
O ne of the e~~ouraging breakthroughs 
that occurred while I was there was 
when, as a prelude to an international 
soccer match, or rugby match, the 
main 
all-white high school of the 
Cape Town area played against the · 
main non-white high school. There 
had never been an interracial match on 
the high school level. What is signifi-
cant is that not only was there a huge 
crowd, interracial, but though the 
press anticipated that this white team 
was going to wipe these much smaller 
people off the field, the Indian and 
C olored team won the game. As they 
began to win the game with a more 


daring style. of play, the entire au -
dience began to root for them. T here 
was no sense of racial antipathy, no 
sense that the whites fundamentally 
felt that the white team had to win, 
because what they were seeing was a 
better style of play. As a good friend of 
mine 
remarked, "Maybe the fun-
damental politics of apartheid in this 
country will turn on sports." 

TNJ: Yale students are organizing a 
new committee to combat apartheid on 
campus, and they are going to recon-
sider the issue of disinvestment of 
university holdings in South African 
enterprises. In your opinion what is 
the value of disinvestment as a tactic to 
express disapproval of apartheid? 

RW: I think it makes those who join in 
such committees feel good. So I think 
such committees are a good thing. I 
also· think that they don't have any ef-
fect whatsoever on apartheid. If such 
committees are formed on the assump-
tion that they're going to bring apar-
theid crumbling to the ground, then I 
think that the people involved in them 
will be very frustrated. It's rather like 
the liquor store dealers of Connecticut 
taking Russian vodka off the shelf. I 
am sure this is a good public relations 
gesture toward the consumers, but I 
do not think that the Soviet Union is 
going to worry that because they shot 
down a Korean airliner, we're not go-
ing to drink their vodka. 

As I said at the outset, I think the 
historian must go and see for himself. 
It's very wrong to condemn a society 
which you've' never examined. So 
when I said I was compromising 
myself, I didn't mean to say that I felt 
dirty because I had gone to South 
Africa, but there is no doubt as you 
look out a streamlined train at the 
shanty towns you're passing by, you 
have to recognize that you are in a 
streamlined train because there are 
shanty towns out there. There is a real 
cause and effect between the two. So it 
was good to es<"ape from that sense of 
moral discomfort. 


**Title: A Stolen Past**
**Author: John Knowles**
**Page number(s): 34-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Books/Paul Hofheinz 
A 
STOLEN 
PAST 
A Separate Peace at Yale 
34 The New Journal/October 21, 1983 
A Stolen Past b y John Knowles 
1983 Holt Rinehart Winston 242 pp. 
I read John Knowles' A Separate Peace 
as a freshman in high school. I don't 
remember much about it except that it 
had one of those sentimental endings 
where someone dies and the reader is 
supposed to reflect on the frailty of life 
and the traj;~;edy of youth cut off in its 
prime. I remember finding Knowles~ 
reminiscences of his life as a student at 
Exeter (renamed the Devon school in 
his novel) to be especially tedious. The 
students were so smug and happy, and 
the author treated them so reverently. 
I can still recall the disdain I felt as a 
freshman at a small high school in 
Texas for this East Coast prep school 
mentality which seemed to think so 
much of itself and to be so remote from 
life as I knew it. 

Now I am a senior at Yale, a nd I've 
just finished reading A Stolen Past, 
Knowles' most recent novel, which 
came out in July. I enjoyed this fic-
tional memoir about Knowles' days as 
an undergraduate at Yale. I found 
myself identifying frequently with the 
characters in the novel as they tried to 
make sense ·eut of Yale. I recognized 
their insecurities; I saw their vulnera-
bilities. I knew their pleasure and I felt 
their pain. 

fve changed a Jot since I read A 
&paraU Peace in high school. Yale and 
all of the things that an Ivy education 
once meant to me are no longer some-
thing foreign and elitist. They are a 
part of me now, for better or worse. I 
enjoyed A Stolm Pait, but I'm left 
wondering what they'll make of it back 
in Texas. 

Much of the arrogant idealization of 
the East Coast establishmt>nt is still 
there. Knowles occasionally writes as if


Yale were the New J erusalem. The 
campus he desqibes is adorned with a 
sense of destiny. The buildings are 
monumental a nd the people are ef-
fervescent. Even swimming practice 
takes on an aura of great importance: 
Late in the afternoon five days a week we 
practiced in the echoing, 
chlorinc-und-
humidity-laden air of the Exhihition Pool in 
the Payne Whitney Cymna~ium. The cry~· 
talline hlui~h water of the pool itself. thc 
gleaming whiten~·ss of the t ik dcd under 1 he 
hright lights. tht• gun·nwtal-grccn ~cats ri~­
ing ~tecply nn all sicks, this rather spec-
tacular st•llinfo( !t-nt a ht•ightcnecl ~ignifintnce 
In ~hat Wll, aftt•r all just a group nf young 
men pnu·tic·ing. Of t·nur<t· we wt•rc mcmhcrs 
of not just an~ swimming tt·am . we wen· tht· 
Yalt· Swimmin.l( Tc•am. argual'll~ the lx-st. 
~Star in and vt·ar out. in chc: t·nuncrv 

As one friend of mine remarked when I 
showed him the book I was reading, 
"This is the kind of thing that makes 
people want to firebomb Yale." 

But if you look past these heavy-
handed descriptions, you'll find A Stolen 
PtlSl is a finely crafted a nd compelling 
novel about a writer·trying to come to 
terms with himself. Knowles wants to 
tell us who he is a nd how he got there. 
His narrative is full of parallels with his 
own life so that the author is never very 
far from the story he is telling. His 
penetration into the mind of an under-
graduate at 'Yale is remarkable if only 
for the clarity and elegance of his prose 
and his mastery of the complex multi-
ple narratives with which he tells his 
story. 

Knowles writes in the guise of Allan 
Prieston, a middle-aged and highly 
successful writer who returns to Yale in 
1980 for the first time since he was a 
student there in the early 1950's. 
Prieston has been asked to give a lec-
!ure on one of his popular novels which 
•s taught in high school curriculums 
across the country (much like A &parau 
PNCe). Once he is settled into his room 
in the Pierson Slave Quarters, he 
meets an old friend named Millicent 
MoncrieiT. She remarks upon how 
much he has changed since his days as 
an undergraduate and asks him what 
he_has given up as he has grown older. 
~r•eston is unable to answer the ques-
tion, so he resurrects the memories of 
his days at Yale in seart·h of an answer. 
His thoughJs first turn to his room-
mate Gregory Trouvenskoy, the son of 
Russian aristocrats and a relative of 
the deposed Czar Nicholas II. Trouv-
enskoy is haunted by his family's 
former wealth and privilege. H e finds 
himself uneasy about the prospect of 
trying to be a successful American 
when his family heritage is so deeply 
rooted in an aristocratic past. Once at 
the pinnacle of Russian society, the 
Trouvenskoys were 
forced to sell 
everything they had brought with them 


from Russia to put Gregory through 
Yale. Now all that remains of their 
former wealth is a large diamond given 
to Gregory's mother by the Czar 
himself. 

But one day that diamond is stolen, 
and the Trouvenskoys' life is thrown 
into disarray. They had been saving 
the diamond to provide some security 
for the future and to serve as a tangible 
link with their past. Its theft was a 
break with that history, a "stolen past" 
if you will. Now Gregory will have to 
support the family himself without the 
help of the money they had counted on 
from the eventual sale of the diamond. 

A large portion of the novel revolves 
around Prieston's development as a 
writer. W hen he isn't telling us the 
story of the diamond theft, he is 
reminiscing about Reeves Lockhart, 
his old English teacher and mentor. 
Lockhart was a forceful personality 
and a dramatic lecturer in addition to 
being a world famous author of several 
plays and novels (see side bar). The 
character is at least loosely based on 
Thornton Wilder, the Pulitzer Prize-
winning author of Our Town and a pro-
fessor of English at Yale in the 194,0's 
and 50's. Knowles has acknowledged 
his indebtedness to Wilder elsewhere. 

Through the use of multiple nar-
ratives, Knowles also gives us some in-
• sights 
into the various stages of 
awareness that an author goes through 
at different points in his career. The 
young Allan Prieston is timid and in-
secure. His prose is self-conscious and 
overly introspective. The middle-aged 
Allan Prieston is wise and in control of 
his craft. He is learning to understand 
himself and those around him. The ag-
ing Reeves Lockhart, already ac-
claimed and world-renowned as he 
nears 60, has refused to publish any of 
his later works. He has run out of 
things to say and has turned overly 
critical of himself. He warns Prieston 
that someday he too will run out of 
things to say. 

Lockhart 
gives Prieston 
much 
valuable advice on his writing which he 
shares with us. He tells Prieston "there 
must be an eie.ment of play in all good 
writing," adding that "it's hard to im-
agine Shakespeare feeling playful while 
writing King Lear but on a certain level 
he must have been." He advises 
Prieston to be less indulgent in his 
prose and to try harder to understand 
other people. 

Perhaps the most encouraging ad-
vice that he gives to Prieston is that as 
he grows up, his work will also mature. 
Prieston takes that advice to heart by 
waiting to write the story of his days at 
Yale until he is mature enough to 
understand how they have affected 
him. When he does do so 30 years 


**A Separate Peace: A Retrospective**
**Author: Paul Hojheinz**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
later, the narrative shows the depth of 
his greater understanding. 

The passage of 30 years has, in fact, 
given Knowles a perspective on Yale 
he didn't have as an undergraduate. As 
an alumnus returning to Yale, he sees 
privilege that he had not realized ex-
isted when he was an undergraduate. 
He describes this new awareness quite 
_subtly by juxtaposing Yale ard the 
American elite with the family of the 
fallen R ussian aristocrats. At one point 
G regory makes fun of the Yale insignia 
on Allan's bathrobe, '"What if I wore 
the R omanoff double eagle,' he scoffed, 
'on my ski parka?'" 
Maturity docs 
bring a 
greater 
awareness of who we are and where 
we've been. I was as green as Allan 
Prieston when I read A Separate Peace in 
high school. I've grown up a lot since 
then, and I now understand that child-
hood does, in fact, end. I signed A 
Separate Peace out of the library recently, 
and I found that I really liked it. The 
tragedy of youth's passing is no longer 
incomprehensible to me. But only with 
the passing of time and the gaining of 
maturity could I recognize the power 
of this book's simple message. 

In the end Prieston realizes that the 
transition from young student to ac-
complished writer has hardened him. 
H e finally answers the question that 
M illicent Monc·ricff asked him: What 
have you given up to get where you are 
today? 

"l'nl f;n;tr"'t'r. lnuJ(ht·r. nlurt· in\pltlil·nt. I 
chink 1 c·uuld c•vc·n h.- dt•-.·riht•d in my "u-
dt•nc day~ a~ full nf kindnc· .. and c·nmpa~· 
"'ion. Nn" l'n• ruuc·h nlur,· hru~qut·. nne ~o 
kind. I'm nne a l(t•nch•m;cn 
I'm dc•dinoct•d. 
l'n1 a mi~t hit:\'ous. c onnh inK ra'< ttl and a 
c·ht"at: a wriu:r."' 

K nowles offers this final insight into 
his craft: 

Writers 
tell 
stories; 
sometimes their own, sometimes some-
one else's. They are not afraid to steal. 
They are not afraid to rummage 
through the past and resurrect unplea-
sant memories -like the theft of the 
T rouvenskoys' 
diamond. They are 
not afraid to take these stories and 
claim them for their own. After all, 
what is a novel but a stolen past? 
• 
Paul Hojheinz, a senior m Silliman, zs 
Associate Editor of TN.J .


**Afterthought: Swimming With the Big Fish**
**Author: John McQuaid**
**Page number(s): 38**

On the· second-to-last wee_k :I was living in Washington, I 
experienced an epiphany: I found myself at an early even-
ing publication party for a,n editor I knew, sipping chablis. 
out of a fishbowl-sized 'wineglass, blinking every five 
minutes at the array of oysters and crab legs. Surrounded 
by colleagues from The New Republic, the magazine wh<:>re I 
was interning, I chatted with the Washin.f!ton Pnst reporter 
covering the event, a friend who like me had just graduat<·d 
from Yale. Everyone was at case and at home in the social 
scene. Suddenly a wave of tension swept over the crowd, 
causing many of us to stifle a gasp. Henry Kissinger had 
arrived. 

· I d idn't speak with him. After all, he was monopolized 
by two congressmen, an editor and the White House cor-
respo~dent for The New York Times. But even so, there we 
all were hanging out at The Palm on 19th Street NW. In a 
strange way, for two hours we were all equals, drinking the 
same wine and chomping on the same seafood. At that 
point I began to understand just how much, as a Yalic 
Washington Intern (YWI), I was living a dream. And after 
recovering from the wine in the fishbowl, I decided that it 
wasn't necessarily a good dream either. 

Washington is itself a fishbowl- everybody's looking at 
everybody else, looking for leverage, for a chance shoulder-
rubbing which could pay off later· on. Interns are status-
conscious; for YWI's, status is obtained usually with no 
more discernible effort than the legwork it takes to get a 
resume typeset at Tyco. One soon learns that credentials 
and connections are everything, and Yale provides you 
with a ready-made set. My Georgetown housesitting ar-
rangement, for example, a cushy deal with a car and a 
phone answering machine, was procured by my YWI 
roommate through friends of friends of friends. 

Upon moving into the plush surroundings, among the 
first things I discovered was a document called the Social 
Register-essentially a listing or rich people, whom they 
married, the clubs they belong to and the schools they at-
tended. I immediately began searching for Yalies I knew, 
found a few I expected to be in there and a few I did not. 
My name, alas, wasn't in there, but for some reason I 
almost wished it were. Once you feel yourself being con-
sumed by the "Washington scene,". it's hard to face the fact 
that you really may not belong after all. Many hunger to 
overcome this self doubt. 

"Interns are carnivorous creatures," wrote Robin Davis 
(herself an intern) in a piece in The New Republic last 
September, "and in the summer Washington is crawling 
with thousands of interns hell-bent on devouring every-
thing in s-ight." Each June an entire intern sub-culture 
springs up with its own social life and its own rules. Prox-
imity to power is the most valued commodity, what pro-
vides you with a name to drop and, many hope, the 
knowledge to climb Capitol Hill later in life. An internship 
spent running errands for your congressman far outranks 
doing research for the Congressional Quarterly. 

Yalies are led to believe they'll own the world within a 
given time after graduation- say 20 years, maybe 30 for 
the less ambitious. Upon arrival in Washington, suddenly 
you find yourself at cocktail parties with Henry Kissinger, 
and the 20 years conn·ptually ('()llapst> to nothirtg. Obvious-
ly you an· more lowly than Ht•nry. Kissingt·r, but t•veryone 
surrounding you is on a paralld track to a hight·r position, 
hobnobbing with people like him. Being an intern wht·ts 
your appt·tite f(>r more oysters ancl crab legs down th<· line; 
you start to exaggerate your own sizt' in tht· fishbowl. 

Anyom·'s initial r<'aetion, mine anyway. is. "Oh wow. Isn't 
this amazing." After the starry-eyt·d shock wears off. the 
st·condary rt·action might as well be, "I belong hen·; these 
arc my pt•opk." 

Rut somehow all these pt•ople, in Georget<.>wn at kast 
st>em to he blonde and wearing khaki shorts. Thne is a 
disturbing provincialism about this place. a cit-y that afl'<Tts 
so much of the world. A qm·stion arises: is it possibk to 
g<>Vern cflcrtively if you hav<' nt'vt•r left tht• Eastern 
Establishment's Boston-to-Washington corridor? Is Wash-
ington in fact the natural tnminus of the universe. the 
plat·e where all roads kad? And if so, is tht•n· nothing 
wmng with taking the short t·ut from New Hav<·n and fall-
ing in loY<' with tht• place since toughing it out at Yak f(>r 
four years seems to land a lot of people there as it is? 

Like Yale, Washington is a meta-reality. It is an artifi<·ial 
world whnc tht· path~ pf the powerful intersect. Evt•rything 
has a sheen of importance, that of politics and power in-
stead of academia. Ytiu can st•t• it burning n·stlessly in the 
<'yes of many intans and stallers on Capitol Hill : a hungry 
look of pious self-importance based ultimately on not much 
mort· than brains and a few months' experi<·n<'<' in a local 
law firm. 

When you're exposed to constant committee lwarings 
and prt•ss <·overage, important ckcision-making and q~o­
massage. how hard it is to t'<'IIH'lllht:r that I ht..-e is indeed 
Sonlt'thing Ebw. Yak, ckspite its atmospht'IT of privilege 
and compt·tition, stresses ahovt• those things the valut•s of 
learning, of the "liberal education." In Washington the mis-
sion is to govern, and that means different ground rules. 
Sclf-;nterest is the motivating fon-c of politics. Values are 
largely an individual matter, and if you're pushing 20 
they're espec-ially hard to find in a place dominated hy 
political buzzwords. 

When the staff writer at my magazine, who was a yntr 
older than I, decided it was time to move on, he had a 
t·hoicc between two job offers. The first was with a 
newspaper in New Orleans, the se<"nnd as a spt•echwriter 
for Walter Mondale. Both paid the same. Evt•ryhody in tht· 
office urged him to go with Fritz. After all, working on a 
national political campaign that could land you in the 
White House is nothing to he tossed off idly. After days 
spent agonizing, he decided to abandon the fishbowl and 
the haunts of Henry Kissinger and "go south and do honest 
work," in the words of another adviser. He may eventually 
return to Washington, hut in the meantime thert• is 
something to be said for the "honest work" of the circuitous 
route. 
John McQuaid '83 is a former editor of the Yale Daily News. He 
is now a .free-lance writer living in New Haven.


**The New Journal: A Magazine ... In The Making**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 39**

A Magazine ... 
Every issue demands the talent and energy of dozens of writers, 
production people and business staffers. We have high 
expectations of ourselves and, after more than two full years of 
quality journalism, so do our readers. 

But no matter how good The New Journal has been, it can be 
better. We are as interested in learning from you as we are 
willing to teach you what we already know. 

To learn more about The New Journal call Editor W. Hampton 
Sides at 865-1554 or Publisher Hilary Callahan 432-3219. Or, 
attend our organizational meeting on Tuesday, October 25th 
at 8 p.m. in the Berkeley Common Room . 

. . . In ·The Making. 



**Title: NOW MORE THAN EVER!**
**Author: [No Author Listed]**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
NOW MORE THAN EVER! 
The Yale Co-op Book Department has expanded in size and added 
a computerized inventory system so that now we offer you: 
*more 
• more 
• plus 
books In every subject from architecture to women's studies 
than 110 different subject areas 
University Press titles 
science and professional books 
medicine and law books · 
'· 
than 2,000 computer science titles from elementary to 
advanced 
children's books 
foreign language books 
small press titles 
titles always In stock-fewer 'sold outs', faster re-orders 
than 6,000 new titles due in during the next 3 months 
sale books-the area's largest selection of quality bargains 
Information available through our info desk computer terminal 
books coming In every day! 
a full time staff of 15 to assist you in every way in finding a 
book-If not In our stock of more than 40,000 titles, then 
through our "7-day" search, special order service or.out·of· 
print search. 
VISIT THE EXPANDED CO-OP BOOK DEPARTMENT 
11111111111111 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 

