Publication date: April 22, 1974
Volume: seven
Issue number: four

**MASTHEAD**
- Editor: Stuart Rohrer
- Managing Editor: Alan Strasser
- Design: Jim Liberman
- Junior Editors: David Sleeper, Stephen Sternbach
- Executive Editor: Dan Denton
- Associate Editors: Jane Fellner, Michael Jacobson
- Production Editor: Tammy Jacoby
- Design Assistant: Marla Schay
- Staff: Crystal Pruess, Anne Sprunt
- Business Manager: Steve Ballou
- Publisher: Ron Roel


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- Comment: Except in cases of impeachment -  
- Reveille on the Old Campus -  
- "How am I doing, wonder?" Reflections on Louis Kahn - Vincent J. Scully
- Dollars and Daffodils - 


**Title: Comment: Except in cases of impeachment**
**Author: Gaddis Smith**
**Page number(s): 2**

A panel on "Watergate and the Media," which met at Yale on April 1, discussed the issue of the individual's right to a fair trial versus the society's right to a free press. 
The majority of the panel (Eliot Richardson, Anthony Lewis, Daniel Schorr, ~d Seymour Hersh) agreed that in the early stages of the Watergate affair the press overstepped its normal bounds. Its investigations and revelations may have infringed on the rights of some individuals to a fair trial. 

Schorr spoke eloquently of a breakdown in our system of justice at the highest level. With the Government incapable of checking its own criminal abuses, the press took on an extraordinarily dangerous, yet necessary role. But now, Schorr said, the press is returning to the exercise of proper restraint. The Special Prosecutor is at work. Numerous indictments have been handed down. Trials are in progress. The House Judiciary Committee is investigating impeachment of the President. The system is working again, and the individual's right to a fair trial should again reign. 

Who can disagree? Who would condone violation by the press of the secrecy of grand jury proceedings? Being for a fair trial is like being against murder. But dQ all the safeguards and elaborate procedures designed to protect the person accused of a crime apply to the President during the process of impeachment? 
I say the answer is no. Impeachment proceedings do bear a superficial resemblance to ordinary criminal trials. The House of Representatives is akin to a grand jury bringing an indictment. The Senate is akin to judge and jury deciding on acquittal or conviction. The managers appointed by the House are like prosecutors appearing before the Senate. The accused, called "the respondent," has the right to counsel, to cross-examine, and to call witnesses. 

But impeachment proceedings are political, not legal. They are designed to deal with a political failure in the system. It is for the House to decide if there is sufficient evidence of "treason, bribery, or other high crimes and misdemeanors," and for the Senate to decide by a two-thirds vote on removal and disqualification for future office. 

An individual accused of a crime has the right to challenge evidence, to seek postponement, a change of venue, disqualification of jurors, and to seek a reversal of conviction in a higher court. We should cherish the individual's right not to be deprived of life, freedom, or property without due process. We gladly prefer that some who are guilty may go free rather than increase the chances of convicting the innocent. 

But an individual does not have the same right to hold the office of the Presidency as he does to remain out of jail until proven guilty. I would even argue that a President under investigation for impeachment cannot invoke the spirit of the Fifth Amendment against self-incrim.i,nation. 

A person who accepts the Presidency must acknowledge the political power of Congress to conduct a full investigation when impeachment is the issue. A President qua President cannot be granted the protections we accord to individuals. 
His protection as President lies ultimately in his own integrity, his respect for the truth - in full disclosure - and in the faith that Congress will recognize truth and integrity where such .exist. 0

Mr. Smith, the Master of Pierson College, moderated the April 1 panel discussion entitled "Watergate and the Media."


**Title: Reinforcement for a Skinner freak**
**Author: John**
**Page number(s): 2-3, 11**

Last December, I was taken totally by surprise when the phone rang and a voice said, "John, this is B.F. Skinner calling to wish you a happy 21st birthday." My roommates-knowing how much I admired his work-had asked Skinner to call, and he had cheerfully agreed. On the phone, Skinner offered to discuss psychology with me at a later date. I held him to his offer, and traveled to Cambridge where we talked for almost an hour. What follows is a personal reflection on Skinner-the man, and his work. 

Burrhus Frederick Skinner, age 70, will retire from the Harvard faculty this summer, a man whose intentions have been thoroughly misunderstood. His theory of human behavior poses a radical challenge to the way most people like to think about themselves. Skinner believes that all behavior is solely a product of the interaction between an individual's genetic endowment and environmental experiences; he denies man's autonomous control of his own actions. Man's behavior - like that of a rat or a pigeon in a Skinner box - is no more than a series of sophisticated bar presses. By applying the scientific method to himself, man finds that he too, like the heavenly bodies, a falling apple, or a Mack truck, behaves according to discernible laws. Those who accept his theories consider Skinner a Newton among 20th century psychologists. 

Of course, not everyone accepts his ideas. In fact, almost no one does. Skinner estimates that 80 per cent of the comment on his work is unfavorable. Critics tend to focus on the implications of his theory that deal with the control of human behavior. Either directly or by innuendo, Skinner is compared to totalitarian figures - the Orwellian prototypes for Big Brother - or the immoral scientist who shows Big Brother how it can all be done. 

No image could be further from the one Skinner projects as a man. Meeting him is a disarming experience. A short man, he wears thick black-rimmed glasses. His face belies his age; his skin is smooth, almost youthful, though sagging somewhat at the jowls. 

Although he has done no laboratory research in years, he shares a floor in William James Hall with several dozen pigeons noticeable because of their smell and incessant cooing. His office is simple. Boxes of books and papers lie open on the vinyl floor. There is a desk, some bookcases, a few chairs, and a color photograph of his granddaughter. 
Still it is recognizably Skinner's office. Copies of his works, bound in black and gold volumes, stand prominently on his desk between bookends. On the wall hangs a painting of a man's body with a duck's head, sitting atop a huge, partially cracked egg. The Saturday Review used the painting as a cover to go with an article Skinner wrote on the artist and society. In the article Skinner had characterized an artist as no more than a warm body within which creativity occurs. "They made me pay for the painting," Skinner told me, standing by the brooding figure on the egg, "but I thought it went nicely with the theme of the article." 
(continued on page 11)


**Title: Reveille on the Old Campus**
**Author: David Sleeper**
**Page number(s): 3-5**

In the Fall of 1943, a large duck hawk built its nest among the gargoyles on top of Harkness Tower. From its perch it could see the bomb spotter's catwalk on the roof of Sterling Memorial Library, the armed sentries who guarded the entrances to the Old Campus, and the clouds of dust raised by marching soldiers dressed in green, tan, and blue uniforms. In 1943, towering elm trees lined the streets with geometric precision and every blade of grass had been battered down by thousands of marching feet. Loudspeakers strung between the two courts of Berkeley College called trainees to formation on the Cross Campus. 

Some of the 7,000 military personnel stationed at Yale thought the big bird living atop Harkness Tower was a vulture. Every time the bugle sounded for a meal, the hawk would swoop down and pick off a pigeon from the Old Campus or the New Haven Green. After returning to its perch, it would rain down pieces of pigeon on unsuspecting passers-by. 
Yale had been signed over to the War Department for the duration, and it would emerge from the Second World War a changed institution. 

The path of true neutrality is not an easy one and sacrifices will be demanded every step of the way. Yet any sacrifice can be endured which prevents the supreme one, the slaughter of men, women, and children. 
-Editorial in the Yale Daily News Sept. 25,1939

In the minds of most Yale students, isolationism represented the only way America could keep its sanity in a world being torn apart by insane forces. Kingman Brewster, Chairman of the 1940 News, joined the America First movement, and testified before a Congressional subcommittee against America's policy of providing aid to Britain. "We were trying to save the world," Brewster said, "not just Yale." On Dec. 7, 1941, a quiet Sunday during reading period, the number of isolationists on campus sank to zero. 

The news of the surprise attack on Pearl Harbor shocked students into an immediate orientation towards war. On the evening of December 7, Elias Clarke (present master of Silliman College) and other members of the News staff brought the Yale Marching Band to the Old Campus and gathered a crowd of over a thousand students. They moved onto Elm Street singing "The Star Spangled Banner" and shouting "On To Tokyo." They then swarmed up Hillhouse Avenue and stopped in front of University President Charles Seymour's house, waiting nervously for him to offer some kind of direction. Seymour responded by delivering a stirring speech. "This is not the first time in American History," he said, "that Yalemen have gathered together to express their loyalty to the nation." The crowd cheered, sang "He's a Jolly Good Fellow" and "Bright College Years," and then marched into the lobby of the Taft Hotel chanting "To Hell With Hirohito." 

During the first year of the Second World War the government counseled students to help the war effort by staying in college and getting a thorough education. As hostilities intensified, and more and more students faced the possibility of service overseas, the popularity of geography and foreign language studies took a quantum leap upward. In the minds of many, technology more than manpower would win the war-so the disciplines of math and science became absolutely essential. This feeling was amplified six months after Pearl Harbor when over a thousand Yale graduates wrote the college saying that their greatest mistake as students had been not to take enough math. In other efforts to get behind the war, the News sponsored special broadcasts of International Morse Code classes, and others volunteered for bomb warden duty on the New Haven coastline. 

But as the war escalated overseas, an increasing number of students left college to enlist. 
"I can't remember one person," said Elias Clarke '43, "who tried to avoid service. In fact, there were a great many students who went to great lengths to enlist-to the point of hiding heart murmurs and athletic injuries." Members of the Yale faculty followed right on the heels of their departing students. Many went to Washington, got back their former commissions, and worked for the O.S.S. In a short time it appeared as if only those too young for service and the "lame and the halt" would be left on campus. 

Faced with a possible shutdown of facilities due to the dwindling student population, the Administration turned to the War Department for a solution. The government had already begun leasing buildings at colleges for specialized training activities -a practice which would involve over 200 colleges and 100,000 trainees before the war's end. President Seymour, in an effort to support the war effort and simultaneously generate needed income for Yale, virtually signed away the campus. 
On January 8, 1943, 300 Army-Air Corps cadets arrived in New


**(Page 6-8 are missing from the provided text.)**


**Title: "How am I doing, wonder?" Reflections on Louis Kahn**
**Author: Vincent J. Scully**
**Page number(s): 6-8**


**(Content missing)**


**Title: Dollars and Daffodils**
**Author: [Author Missing]**
**Page number(s): 9**




**Title: Yale During World War II**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Haven and moved onto the Old 
Campus. By summer, the Navy had 
sent 1800 more trainees, and quar-
tered them in Branford, Davenport, 
Pierson, and Saybrook Colleges. The 
Army Specialized Training Corps 
(AST)soonfollowed. In June, 1944, 
at the height of Yale's military occu-
pation, 7,328 military personnel were 
stationed on campus. Charles Rum-
ford Walker, the Asst. Secretary of 
the University, estimated that it cost 
an officer eighty-nine salutes to pass 
the Sterling Memorial Library at 
noon-day. 


Ostensibly, the military programs 
remained separate and distinct 
from Yale's education policies- the 
War Department had simply leased 
the university's facilities. But a sub-
stantial number of Yale undergrad-
uates enrolled in the military pro-
grams, and their experience as 
soldiers at Yale-and Yale's experi-
ence as a military camp- would lead 
to permanent changes in the postwar 
era. 


The military wanted specialists-
doctors, engineers, chaplains, inter-
preters-and it wanted them fast. 
Soldiers were paid $50 a month to "go 
to college" and learn pre-medical, 
engineering, and language skills. The 
military's emphasis on producing 
specialists led to a devaluation of 
most liberal arts courses. A typical 
Navy program required its trainees to 
take math, English, American 
History, science, and a course on 
naval organization ("How to tell a 
cop from an admiral," wrote Charles 
Rumford Walker). The Navy did, 
however, allow its students to major 
in the Humanities if they satisfied all 
the other requirements. The Army 
students took twed'ty-four class 
hours a week, and spent twice as 
much time in math and science as 
they did in the liberal arts. 


Many of the Army trainees 
selected to attend Yale were woefully 
unprepared for college level instruc-
tion. The president of another college 
remarked that his AST boys were 
"splendid-fine physical specimens, 
of good moral character, and high 
native intelligence. The only criticism 
my faculty has to make is that they 
cannot read, write, add, subtract, 
multiply, or divide.'' This fact, com-
bined with the military's policy of 
getting its trainees out into the field 
of combat as soon as possible, led to 
notorious "refresher" courses and 
accelerated programs of stud~ One 
apocryphal story involved an Army 
trainee at Yale who looked out the 
window during a mathematics re-
fresher course; when he looked back, 
he found he had mi•aed trigonometry. 


Certain members of theY ale 
faculty fell right into the military 
routine. Emerson Tuttle, the Master 
of Davenport, became a regular ty-
rant when theN avy men moved into 
his college. Every night he would 
line the men up in the courtyard and 
review the troops. 


An article in a newspaper pub-
lished by theY ale Army-Air Corps 
cadets referred to the Payne Whitney 
Gym as the "Temple of Sweat." 
Robert J .H. Kiphuth and his staff at 
Payne Whitney worked closely with 
the military. Mandatory physical 
fitness programs brought as many as 
1,000 trainees every hour to the 
gym for survival training, obstacle 
courses, body building classes, self-
defense training, and swimming prac-
tice. Kiphuth, who had always been a 
physical fitness advocate, enjoyed 
working with students eager to fulfill 
the fitness requirements -a cadet 
always had the nagging feeling in the 
back of his mind that he might profit 
from the training if he ever got into 
actual combat. So they gritted their 
teeth, ran up and down the stairways 
in the gymnasium tower, took as-
sorted "bruhah-ha" tests, and ran 
laps around the Grove Street 
Cemetery. "Bob Kiphuth," an article 
in the American Mercury said, "is 
building muscles for victory over 
Hitler, not Harvard." 


Other members of the faculty dis-
agreed sharply with military policies. 
George W. Pierson, University His-
torian and an Associate Professor of 
History during the war, objected to 
the "jettisoning" of the liberal 
arts curriculum in favor of more 
technical training. "We felt be-
trayed," said Pierson. " Some faculty 
members thought that we should 
train a soldier's mind and morale, 
not just his computer.' • Pierson and 
three other junior faculty members 
-
Maynard Mack, Thomas Menden· 
hall, and Richard Sewall -
would 
meet secretly in the Sterling Library 
and discuss possible actions to save 
the beleaguered Humanities. Pier-
son's " Young Turk" movement suc-
ceeded only in bringing the junior fa-
culty's discontent to the attention of 
the Administration. The military's 
policy did not change. "It taught me 
how helpless a major university can 
be," said Pierson, "when dealing 
with the government on issues that 
can't be given an obvious emotional 
value." 


Undergraduate Regulations for 
Navy Vl2 Program: 
smoking or eating on the street 
in uniform. ........................ 5 ckJ<MritS 
failure to salute a superior 
officer ............................... 5 demerits 
playing radio or musical instru-
ments during hours set aside for 
study ................................ 5 demerits 
soliciting an unauthorized ride in an 
automobile ...................... 1 0 demerits 


The mobilization of Yale and its 
facilities by the military was total-
almost nothing remained of the pre-
war college life style. Connecticut 
Hall became the Air Corps Dispen-
sary. No one ("not even if you were 
President Seymour") could enter the 
Old Campus without a pass. Heeling 
for the Lit, Dramat, and the News 
became a nostalgic memory. The 
Briton Hadden building, which 
formerly housed the News, was 
turned into the Navy V12 head-
quarters. The Army command took 
over DKE House. A rigid military 
schedule structured the lives of the 
trainees: reveille blew at 6:40; 
classes, exercise sessions, and 
marching practice filled the day; 
evening study hours restricted stu-
dents to their rooms; and the lights 
went out at 10:30. 


Trainees found numerous ways to 
circumvent military restrictions. 
They quickly discovered that the 
lights in the basements and steam 
tunnels operated on city power, and 
were not shut off at taps. "We would 
sneak down to the basement and play 
squash all night long,' • said John 
O'Connell, '45W, a member of the 
Navy program stationed in Daven-
port. Fred Rose, '44E, present Chair-
man of the A Y A, tells of a poker 
game late one night in a J .E. tunnel. 
It was during the summer term and a 
poker player who had run out of 
funds decided to put up an extremely 
rare item -
a direct current electric 
fan. After several raises the fan's 
worth was estimated at more than 
$100. "I won the fan," Rose said, 
"and might add that the proposed 
summer term should not be viewed 
with so much horror." 


Dr. Griswold of the Dept. of 
University Health acted as a one 
man anti-service brigade. Students 
who skipped a class or formation 
reported that the doctor never failed 
to provide them with a needed 
medical excuse. 


Not all trainees successfully 
bucked military regulations. One 
weekend, three quarters of the men 
in Branford College had their Satur-
day afternoon liberty cancelled for 
failing a white glove inspection. 


The tremendous influx of military 
personnel resulted in a severe 
housing shortage. Six to nine stu-
dents were assigned to rooms that 
hold four people today. Each trainee 
was allotted half a desk. The dining 
halls forever abolished the practice of 
il 



**Title: Yale During World War II**
**Author: Fred Rose '44E**
**Page number(s): 5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Volume seven, number four I April22, 197415 
personal catering -
long food lines 
and metal trays replaced the obedi-
ent waiters and menus of the pre-war 
days. 

Friction between trainees in dif-
ferent service branches was common. 
On one occasion members of the 
Army-Air Corps living in Wright 
Hall called across High St. to the 
Navy men in Saybrook, "When I 
was a teeny-tiny little boy my mom· 
ma dressed me up in a nice sailor 
suit too." A barrage of coke bottles 
from Saybrook followed, shattering 
windows on the Old Campus. Navy 
men, who woke up a half hour be-
fore everybody else, would slap 
their feet loudly on the pavement as 
they marched by the sleeping Army 
men in the Law School. 

Army trainees were not allowed to 
play on Yale Varsity teams, but they 
did participate vigorously in intra-
muralsports programs. Calhoun 
College boasted that its tackle foot-
ball team could "wipe up the Bowl" 
with the Yale Varsity. Calhoun's 
first string had former players from 
Michigan, Ohio State, Washington, 
and Notre Dame. 

Town-Gown squabbles enjoyed a 
moratorium during the war years. 
Indeed, New Haven residents idol-
ized the soldiers stationed on the 
Yale Campus. Every morning, a col· 
or guard from Yale would march 
down to theN ew Haven Green and 
raise the flag. Parades and full dress 
retreats held on the Green (accom-
panied by the music of Glenn 
Miller's band) attracted thousands 
of civilian spectators. 

Perhaps no group on campus suf· 
fered more than the handful of 
civilian students. These students 
had to live with accelerated course 
schedules (an entire Yale education 
was squeezed into 2 yrs. 8 mo.), sum· 
mer terms, early morning bugles, 
and thousands of soldiers marching 
to the loud strains of" Allouette" 
and "The Air Force Song." The turn-
over rate for civilians, many of 
whom were under draft age, was 
fantastic. The few civilian law stu-
dents had to listen to their lectures 
over the roar of full sized airplane 
engines, bolted to the Law School 
floor for an Air Corps class. Civilian 
students were stigmatized as "mis-
fits." The devastating psychological 
impact of being a civilian on a mili-
tary campus led to numerous ner-
vous breakdowns -
many more than 
during peacetime. 

I uiew the war years as one of the 
great watersheds in recent Yale 
memory. 

The turmoil of the Second World 
War caused a breakdown of rigid 
social patterns. In an effort to con· 
form to the nation's urgent need to 
win the war, Yalesteppedoutofits 
ivy-covered suit of armor. The 
smooth transition from an institu-
tion of higher learning to a 7,000 
man military camp, and then back 
again after the war, showed Yale's 
flexibility. 

The war left behind many concrete 
changes. Half year courses were first 
introduced; the college system be-
came stronger; the number of credits 
needed to graduate decreased; self-
service replaced the waiters and 
menus in the dining halls; and an ex-
cellent language and foreign area 
studies curriculum came into being. 

The influx of students to Yale during 
the war from every state in the 
Union and varied social backgrounds 
augured Inky Clark's revolution in 
admissions policies which would oc-
cur in the sixties. And the hot 
weather of the summer terms cast 
the first shadows of doubt on the in-
violability of the jacket and tie dress 
code. 

The war years taught one bitter 
lesson. The all-out effort to win 
the war nearly resulted in a perma· 
nent weakening of the Liberal Arts 
curriculum at Yale. The military's 
demand for more and more technical 
experts came very close to making 
the Humanities a war casualty. His-
tory repeated itself in the fifties 
following the Sputnik scare. Govern-
ment grants earmarked for the sci-
ences once again shifted educational 
emphases and threatened the excel-
lence of Yale's Humanities. 

Yale insisted, though, on graduat-
ing Renaissance men rather than 
specialists. The secret wartime meet· 
ings in Sterling Library by four 
members of the junior faculty helped 
maintain this tradition. The staunch 
defense of a liberal education shown 
by George Pierson, Thomas 
Mendenhall, Maynard Mack, and 
Richard Sewall was perhaps the 
war's most valuable legacy. 0 





--- Page 6 ---

"How am I doing, wonder?" 
Reflections on Louis Kahn 
by Richard Weinstein and Charles Moore 
Louis Isadore Kahn was born in 1901 
on the Baltic island of Osel, Estonia. 
When he was four years old, his fami-
ly emigrated to the United States, 
settling in Philadelphia. There Kahn 
attended school, displaying talent in 
music and painting. After refusing 
several art scholarships, he entered 
the School of Architecture at the 
University of Pennsylvania. 
Trained in the classical Beau:x: 
Arts tradition, Kahn received what 
he later called an "introduction 
to the spirit of architecture." He 
learned little of the modernistic 
--~~._:- = ~ 
, 
:;::-,_ .. _. 
. -~- -
. 
:!:::: ·- ·-
-
Tffil 
,: -I-_ c.:. --~, -~. --,n.rr'···~ ....... -- ~1~:·H~ oir~o 
lr- -, - ·,l 
I 
• 
f 
, .. : 
1 
' ~~((. 
I 11. 
· 
0
• o! 
\ \':t.~\1~~~~-•;..hi.' 
0 
.0 
0 
. ' •' l 
• r 
, . 0 ~ 
·' of 
• 
:
1 
; 
•I . 
·I 
•
';~
' !i 
; 
: :i 
, ;. 
·~ 
I 
.0, 
. 
- 0. :( . ' . .'"t·l : : .' 
0 .., ,-,lr ·! · {'fto t~l ' 
:. ::---·:.-::;. :-:-.. ~\·r lifr~ ~ ~ 
~ : ~ · 
• .1 
• -?:·· ·k~! ... 
:1 0 . 1 .. 0 
, o· 
. · -·.. 
1. 01·~~ · h 
0,. or··· , 
, ' •• 
~ "i"; .. 
· ' 
• 
·i 
J. 
• • 
'"'"" 
• • 
•• I . , 
r 
•• j 
' 
•• 
• 
• ~;~ • U:iiili;.pi~,;:, 
•; .. : 10· oO•, ... :. rf- t•J' . ·:•·: 
0 ld'' - ~.;: oo• l•·il 
·, .. . I 
.1::~·1\~~ -
' :.::· 
!: .. 
•. 
111 
~ 
~ PJ!pf·t '
'o:· . .J 
- lo_, .. _i· .U.l-~
1 
-~-
0 :...i ··-~:~~ ~it~~ 
.... · --. :n
~·~·~ .... ;:1·~~t ·;m:o 
::Jreo·:~- ·~'l·.:~m~i-.1
. ~~ 
~~ ·.:· . 
.;:~ ;::..· 
: .:li. 
m~,,,f
1 i~
-
-j
l ::r:. 
'·:-~~:-
~\ .. _", 
~ .t· 
0 
•• !M;. ·j 
•
o 
• 
~~dj•' ·• 
'!'-' 
1. I t 
0 ~J' . .: ...:·•' 
i:]!i:.:J.=.t-,.::J£.. d:.....:J • L '( ~ . J _ .• _;;.:· 1-l-
0
• 1 :'fiJI) 
-~~ '
. 
movements during his years at 
Penn; he developed, instead, an af-
fection for the balanced geometric 
masses of Greek and Roman 
antiquity. 
Kahn graduated from Penn in 
1924. During the next ten years, he 
began independent practice. His first 
commission was the Akavath Israel 
Synagogue in Philadelphia, the city 
where he did most of his early work. 
Only much later, at the age of 52, did· 
Kahn design what critics consider 
the first strong statement of his ap-
proach-the Yale Art Gallery. After 
that, professional recognition and 
more commissions came easily. 
Among his later projects are: 
Rickards Medical Laboratories at 
Penn (1960); the Salk Institute, La 
Jolla, Cal. (1965); New Haven's Hill 
Central urban renewal project 
(1967); the second capital at Dacca, 
East Pakistan, now capital of 
Bangladesh; Kimbell Art Museum in 
Fort Worth, Texas (1972); the new 
library at Phillips Exeter Academy 
in Exeter, N.H. (1972); and the Yale 
Center for British Art and British 
Studies, still under construction. 
Kahn taught for most of his life. 
He was a professor of architecture at 
Yale from 1947-57, and lectured here 
frequently even after he returned to 
Penn, this time as a teacher. He 
spent one year ( 1950-51) as resident 
architect at the American Academy 
in Rome. In 1960, he was a visiting 
lecturer at Harvard, Yale, Princeton, 
and several other universities. 
Vincent Scully calls Kahn "the 
most effective teacher of his time in 
America. His ideas influenced 
Romaldo Giurgola, Richard Wein-
stein, Robert Venturi, and Charles 
Moore. "He liberated them from the 
outworn architectural models and 
restrictive patterns of thought of the 
fifties," says Scully. "He set them 
free to think through the whole prob· 
lem of architectural form and 
program from the beginning. " 
On Sunday evening, March 17, 
Kahn was returning from India, 
where he had been working on ~ne of 
v. 
.... 
I 
ner and then relax at the local bar for 
some talk, sometimes too much for 
the hour, and then be back with Lou 
at the board, drawing and drawing 
and drawing until you looked up in 
the quiet before dawn to find he had 
fallen asleep while working, his cheek 
upon a smudgy sketch and the char-
coal still in his hand. 
Louis Kahn was single-minded 
and passionately serious about archi-
tecture. In it he found a meaning so 
broad and humane that his entire 
experience of literature, music, pain-
ting, science, or people could be 
turned to the purpose of making 
buildings, or else consumed by his 
own architectural imagination. He 
made a heroic effort to be intel-
lectually rigorous about the realm of 
feeling and value, developing a new 
language to work out his thoughts. 
He forged ideas in a dialogue that 
was really with himself but was also 
mediated through conversations 
with his students, his colleagues, like 
Robert L. Ricolais, the remarkable 
engineer and teacher, or anyone who 
would listen. During these discus· 
1 sions he spoke in a metaphysical 
tongue, casting the spell that 
allowed him to pursue the substance 
--.. . . of a thought or feeling relentlessly 
his projects-the Institute of Man· 
agement in Ahmedabad. He col· 
lapsed and died in Pennsylvania 
Station, apparently of a heart attack. 
He was 73. 
Form comes from wonder. Wonder 
stems from our "in touchness" with 
how we were made. One senses that 
nature records the process of what it 
makes, so that in what it makes 
there is also the record of how it was 
made. In touch with this record we 
are in wonder. This wonder gives rise 
to knowledge. But knowledge is 
related to other knowledge and this 
relation gives a sense of order, a 
sense of how they inter-relate in a 
harmony that makes all things exist. 
From knowledge to sense of order we 
then wink at wonder and say "How 
am I doing, wonder?" 
Louis Kahn 
Louis Kahn's office was furnished 
with a concrete bench, a brass tele-
scope, and a complete set of the 
Arabian Nights in Burton's transla-
tion. I remember a large sack of 
walnuts and a wooden mallet in the 
comer. Old folios and huge architec-
tural books lay on his desk. The 
place was simple and friendly, the 
drafting room outside was silent and 
rumpled looking; it impressed one as 
a place of work and serious effort -
which it was, day after day and 
frequently all through the night. We 
would work in the office through din-
until it was caught, examined, 
worried over -
until its meaning for 
him was exhausted. With the splen· 
did passion of the Talmudic scholar, 
his mind was sublime in concentra· 
tion through the torture and exalta-
tion of the argument, but rigorous 
and careful to preserve integrity of 
spirit and liveliness of feeling. He 
loved to talk and dispute, until some-
times late at night we would have to 
manage and cajole him back to the 
drafting room under the threat of an 
impending deadline. After class a 
. conversation might also continue, 
and usually did without any sense of 
boundary or limit. 
He was an unimposing figure, 
slight, with a scarred face. Lou 
was channing and full of warmth and 
sly wit, at times relentless, self-
centered, and repetitive (though 
always useful and alive to his inner 
purpose). At these latter times you 
felt isolated by the spectacle of his 
obsessive passion -
indifferent and 
cruel and chilling, in the way it 
separated him from everybody else. 
To us it seemed that he was never 
home; he lived in the office, in the 
circle of conversation, in the homes 
of students and friends. He enjoyed 
being charming to women who were 
drawn to his blithe anecdotes and a 
watchful blue-eyed gaze touched 
with insolence. He used to drink 
Plymouth gin neat and without ice. 
The first time I met Lou was in the 
comforting courtyard of the museum 
at the University of Pennsylvania. It 
was a reception for new students and 
1\ 
< 


**Louis Kahn: A Life in Architecture**
**Author: Richard Weinstein**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
0 Volume seven, number four I April22, 197417 
., 
he had a huge gin in his hand and 
said with an impish smile, "I'm Lou 
Kahn, who are you?" How different 
from Harvard which I had recently 
left in despair. There my promising 
beginning as a student had been cut 
short by a fateful indiscretion. I 
carried a book on Frank Lloyd 
Wright into the first year drafting 
room and then went on to defend my 
interest to our haughty professor. 
-
This brought down on my bewildered 
head all the awful old baggage of the 
Bauhaus system, and led me even· 
tually to Pennsylvania. There Louis 
Kahn had opened the window and 
invited us by his example and his 
work, to look out and see. And I 
could sense that the International 
~ Style, which had purged history and 
which had distorted and isolated 
modem architecture, was now losing 
its influence; the past with its tradi-
tions, monuments, and ruins was 
being restored to us. 

We were taught design with an 
approach that had only a tangential 
relationship to form. How was the 
essence of a library different from 
that of a museum, of a fair from a 
market place? We were encouraged 
to search for a primary concept 
which gave intuitive choice a 
reason -
a reason which would be 
validated by a sense of fitness and 
appropriate feeling, rsther than mere 
physical utility. In fact, we tried to 
sharpen our insights by cultivating a 
disengagement from formal commit· 
ments at the early stages of work. 
« This attitude made us more receptive 
to historical influence, because we 
felt rewarded by discoveries of 
meaning that were independent of 
style. As a result, the context for 
architectural design was enlarged 
and enriched not only by historic 
examples of building, including the 
building of cities, but also by draw-
ing upon achievements in all the 
humanities. Lou could find the 
premise for a building in the Arabian 
Nitlhts or the piano music of Beet· 
hoven. 

Cities, and the design of buildings 
in cities, were naturally seen as an 
issue, not of isolated structures, but 
of making places and streets. The 
larger meaning of the city was regar· 
ded as a primary influence on indi· 
vidual buildings. We were taught to 
integrate them into the idea of the 
street or the public place and to ad· 
just their conceptual organization 
·fl! 
'fl-• • • 
,. 
l~t-
LL !:• ·.L 
# ~-
~~~ '-.:..· 
I 
and physical arrangement to a pur· 
pose greater than themselves. To 
emphasize this point, Lou would 
speak of beautiful cities made up of 
ugly buildings. On the other hand, 
the separate structures along Park 
A venue, each with its little plaza, 
were to him disturbing, discon· 
nected and absurd-he called them 
overstuffed matrons. Mies van de 
Robe, and even Lou's beloved Le 
Corbusier, had done much to disin· 
tegrate the fabric of the city to 
which Kahn, almost alone, felt such a 
profound loyalty. 

Shortly after my arrival at Penn· 
sylvania, Vincent Scully came to the 
University and gave a lecture on 
Kahn and Frank Lloyd Wright, and 
showed beautifully how the concep· 
tion and mood of Wright's early 
buildings, particularly Unity Temple 
and the Larkin Building, were reas· 
serted in Kahn's work. Wright's 
notion of structure is dependent on 
the space which it shapes and 
modifies. As a result, there is a 
strong expressive purpose in the way 
the building is made to stand up, and 
Kahn's work, while differing in many 
respects, is also particularly rich in 
its concentration on structure as a 
carrier of meaning. 

But Kahn had a different idea of 
mystery, less exuberant, less dark, 
though no less brooding and impres· 
sive. This idea issued from a strict· 
ness of construction and the 
assertive willingness to share the 
meaning of an architectural decision 
with the beholder- a willingness 
reflected in his conversation and 
teaching. In the buildings of 
Ahmedabad, the union of brick and 
concrete slab construction are 
analyzed and argued, until a formal 
situation is found which proclaims 
the stresses at work, the nature of 
materials, and their function in rela· 
tion to the larger purposes of the 
space they define. The way these 
rooms are lit, their dimension and 
sound, are finally intended to convey 
a conception of value and an idea of 
conduct. They are intended to speak. 

This didactic, ethical discipline 
should be the criterion of all 
architectural decisions; it qualifies 
all reasons of the heart, resulting in 
the austere, grave mood of the work, 
and allowing you to trust what you 
see. Wright's purpose was never as 
rabbinical. For Kahn, architecture 
was a way of sharing the mystery, 
rather than weaving the spell. 

Largeness of spirit was Louis 
Kahn's greatest gift. It opened him 
to everything that is profound and 
beautiful in the record of civilization, 
permitting him truly to venerate 
what is fine in the new as well as the 
old, and to use this inspiration in his 
teaching and his work. He under· 
stood the purpose and power of tradi· 
tion at a time when process and 
change are valued for their own 
sake, and managed amid both the 
trivial and awesome distractions of 
contemporary life to create about 
him an aura of stillnesR and concern 
for truth. Yearning for the timeless, 
he was drawn to what has endured. 
-Richard Weinstein 


--- Page 8 ---

TheY ale Art Gallery and the unfin. 
ished Yale Center for British Art, 
two buildings flanking Chapel 
Street, mark the beginning and the 
end of the career of Louis Kahn-the 
architect who for so many of us 
meant more than any other in our 
time. As so often happens with archi· 
.. 
tects, that beginning did not come 
until late. Lou Kahn was already in 
his fifties when President Griswold 
asked him to design the addition to 
the Yale Art Gallery. That became, 
as the critics say, his first "mature 
work"; it was just 20 years later 
that his death overtook him, and 
stunned the rest of us. 

The blow was staggering, not be-
cause 73 is so young, but, I guess, 
because we thought he was immor· 
tal. He didn't need death; he didn't 
even seem to need sleep. The loneli· 
ness of his dying in Pennsylvania 
Station, 90 miles from home, after a 
trip from Bombay, and having hi.s 
very identity mislaid in a series of 
police blunders, makes it shudder· 
ingly clear how late in the centw:y it 
has become. It was suddenly so dark, 
when that light we all were used to 
went out. 

The obituary in Time listed some 
of us as his "disciples," but I think 
the term doesn't fit. He wasn't a 
master in the sense that he exacted 
from us some sort of followship. His 
great strength as a teacher, as he 
once pointed out, was that he wasn't 
facile-things didn't come easily to 
him. The struggle to understand, and 
get it right-more difficult but more 
exhilarating than any architectural 
struggle I, for one, had ever known-
was a struggle which involved him as 
well as his students. He wasn't, 
when I knew him best, laying down 
any laws from on high; like the rest of 
us, he was looking for tho:se laws, 
and making the search take on a 
transcendental importance. He said 
wonderful things along the way and 
I, like his other students, have note-
books full of them ("the sun didn't 
know how wonderful it was until its 
rays fell on the wall of a room"). Out 
of the context of the particular 
search they were part of, Kahn's 
words don't seem to make much 
communicable sense. Even the build· 
ings, magic as they seemed, were not 
altogether complete and independent 
of the search. I remember someone 
asking Kahn how he could justify the 
elevator tower on his little AFL-CIO 
Medical Center in Philadelphia as 
architecture. "That's not architec· 
ture." he replied. 

I first met him in 1955, in the 
Princeton Graduate College. He was 
on a panel about Monumentality (a 
special issue of the fifties) with Paul 
Rudolph. I had just spent some time 
ltct 
in Korea, and had never heard of 
Kahn. I was struck with how small 
he was, and how badly his face was 
scarred (from a fire when he was a 
small child in Estonia). And I can't 
remember anything he said. Paul 
Rudolph was teaching that term at 
Princeton, and Kahn had come down 
from Yale, though he was a Philadel· 
phian. George Howe, another Phila· 
delphian, had brought him to Yale, 
where, according to stories I heard 
later, he had not been a particularly 
revered teacher before he started to 
think about the Art Gallery. My 
most vivid image of Kahn at the 
time (because it was so hard to imag-
ine), was of him as the sidekick of 
Edward Durell Stone. The two of 
them, it was said, played violin and 
piano (in bars?) (for money or din-
ners?) during the Depression. 

In the late fifties, Paul Rudolph 
went to Yale and Kahn left for the 
University of Pennsylvania. His of-
fice in Philadelphia grew. It was run 
then by Tim Vreeland, now at 
UCLA, whom Lou thought was the 
best American architect. (I think he 
may have been, as usual, right.) In 
the school year 1958-59, when I was 
teaching at Princeton, Kahn became 
(on the side, of course) thesis critic 
there. I volunteered to help, because 
every mmute with him meant so 
much to me. One night a week, four 
students and I would drive to Phila-
delphia and meet Lou in his office 
after dinner. We would sit around his 
desk while he looked at four theses, 
and criticized them, and elicited crit-
icism from us, and talked about his 
current projects (there was the 
Jewish Community Centetin Tren-
ton, which was never built,· and there 
were the Richards Laboratories at 
Penn, and later the Salk Center). 

Those evenings were food for a life-
time, not so much for those apho-
risms that were filling our notebooks 
as for the communicated sense of 
caring about how the tiricks in Rich-
ards Laboratories wanted to sit on 
each other, or about the student proj-
ects in front of him. He gave those 
student projects the full weight of 
his concern, not as reflections of him-
self, but as serious, independent 
works. He reserved his scorn (which 
could be nasty) for the projects that 
had been encrusted with the shapes 
of Kahn's own recent inventions, and 
his most joyous transports came for 
the projects where new institutions 
could find form. His favorite of those 
theses, I guess, was one done by 
Robert Church, who became, before 
his death, Dean of the Architecture 
School at the University of Tennes-
see. Church was designing an athlet-
ic center for Stone Mountain, near 
Atlanta; and Kahn managed to im-
pute an Olympian splendor to the act 
of suiting up for events there, or even 
of parking your car to spectate. 

My role after those thesis sessions 
in Philadelphia had been to expand 
upon them, back at Princeton with 
the students. We all read different 
meanings into them, of course, but 
every word had had moment. After 
that year I went to Berkeley, where 
Kahn would sometimes come to talk, 
and I found myself again as an inter-
preter afterwards. That was much 
harder. The weight of Kahn's 
thought-and especially his care-
was not really compressible into a 90 
minute lecture, and my explanations 
Volume seven, number four I April22, 197418 
didn't help enough. 

Projects I had seen in his office 
were built, and some, especially the 
Salk Center in La Jolla, were magic. 
And fascinating new commissions 
came, in India and Pakistan and 
Venice and across the United States. 
But the harassments of fame must 
have brought him closer to despair 
than even his failing vision. Most of 
us who had been moved by him 
speculated about his late works be-
fore they came. Wouldn't they be in 
some way like the deaf Beethoven's 
late quartets? Because, thanks in 
some part to him, we were looking to 
history for parallels, and for direct 
inspiration, and for help. 

Kahn's late works, unless I misun-
derstand, weren't like Beethoven's; 
they were more confident and com-
plete than Kahn • s own earlier works, 
simpler and clearer, far less tentative 
and I am afraid, for me, far less full 
of that searching which lay at the 
center of my regard for him. There is, 
though, not much room for disap-
pointment. Lately, it had come to 
seem from his manner and his work, 
that he had found something at the 
end of his lifelong quest, and that the 
preferences of some of the rest of us 
for the rainbow rather than the pot of 
gold might be temporary too. 

But I don't think it occurred to any 
of us that he was mortal. He was, ex-
cept for Alvar Aalto, the last of the 
century's towering architects- and 
like Aalto, he was reviled for that by 
the new realists of the late sixties. 

It's hard to imagine that there is 
room left for such grandeur of spirit 
to arise soon again. And it is even 
harder, so soon after those dismal 
lonesome events last month in Penn 
Station, to recall that the grandeur 
was based on deep humility and the 
honesty of his search, and was trans-
mitted to a great many people, so it 
will not vanish in the circumstantial 
act of dying. But Lou Kahn's is-
must be -
a spirit that will live. 0 
- Clw.rks Moore 

Richard Weinstein is Director of the 
Mayor's Office of Lower Manlw.ttan 
Development. He studied architec-
ture at Harvard and the University 
of Pennsylvania where he did his 
thesis under Louis Kahn. He is a 
winner of the Prix de Rome of the 
American Academy of Arts and 
Letters. 

Clw.rles Moore, Professor of 
Architecture at Yale, is a New Haven 
architect whose works include 
Church Street South, a low- and 
medium-income housing project. He 
was chairman of Yale's Department 
of Archit~cture from 1965-69, and 
subsequently became the Dean of the 
Yale School of Architecture , a post 
he held for two years. 


**Louis Kahn: Remembered**
**Author: Charles Moore**













**Dollars and Daffodils**
**Author: Dan Denton**
**Page number(s): 9**

• 
/ 
';. 
Dollars and Daffodils 
by Dan Denton 
One by one Yale's grand old tradi-
tions fall victim to the times. In the 
last decade alone we have seen the 
end of neckties at dinner, the slow 
death of the fraternities, and coedu-
cation charging through the door of 
Mory's. Yet one important tradition 
will survive no matter what changes 
mold the new landscape of the 
University -
Mother Yale will con-
tinue to call on her wealthy progeny 
for financial support. 

And generations of Yale children 
will no doubt continue to respond, 
both with the unrestricted funds 
called for by the current $370 million 
capital fund drive, and with more 
specific personalized grants for buil-
dings, awards, collections, and who 
knows, maybe even an elephant 
scholarship. 

''The endowment is a superb act of 
faith," wrote Amos P. Wilder, '84, 
during the $20 million Endowment 
Fund Campaign in 1926. "It is not a 
call for money; it is a challenge to 
ordinary men to be great." But 
somewhere in the long tradition of 
alw:n.ni giving, some of those wealthy 
progeny got the idea that a gift to 
Yale could be an opportunity to leave 
a personal stamp on the University. 
Some, like the Sterlings and the 
Beineckes, donated useful buildings, 
but a good number let their imagina-
tions run away with their check-
books. When alumni givers ex-
press themselves through curious 
collections and lecture series, ancient 
books and daffodils, they leave 
memorable-if often obscure-
contributions to the diversity of 
Yale. For proof, we need only look at 
Yale's roster of rococo endowments. 

To David C. DeForest, a finerY ale 
meant a Yale with more DeForests. 
In 1823, he established an annual 
gift of $1,000 in memory of his 
mother, Mrs. Mehitabel Lockwood. 
The scholarship was to be given to 
her direct male descendants, or to 
any other DeForests at Yale. If, how-
ever, no such candidates existed, the 
sum was to be "applied to the 
education of young men in indigent 
circumstances and of good talents, 
who are willing to assume the name 
of DeForest." 

Othniel C. Marsh had a different 
idea. When he died in 1899, Marsh 
leftY ale $30,000 to be used "in pub-
lishing the results of his explorations 
in the West." Marsh also bequeathed 
his house on Prospect Street, to be 
used as the University Botanical 
Garden "a.nd for no other purpose." 
The University scrupulously com-
plied with Marsh's requests, as it has 
even with the bizarre will of the late 
Col. John Trumbull. Trumbull left 
his vast art collection to Yale-with 
two provisos. First, that Yale build 
the first university art gallery in the 
nation to house it; second, that when 
the gallery was completed Yale 
exhume Trumbull's remains and 
place them in a vault in the basement 
beneath the paintings. If Yale ever 
reneged, both the colonel and his art 
would go to Harvard. But Yale has 
kept the collection by keeping 
Trumbull's trust, taking his remains 
wherever his paintings go, and-
when the collection is not on 
display-carefully stacking the 
paintings in the basement above the 
colonel's grave. 

In the 1700's, while Yale struggled 
to stand on its own, dollDrs attached 
no such strings to their gifts. Every 
pound of sterling helped pay for the 
project at hand. Thus Yale's first 
fund drive, conducted in 1721 by 
Gurdon Saltonstall, Esq., financed 
the building no college could be 
without-the rector's house. And 
when the primal Eli-Elihu Yale-
sent his silver, he placed no restric-
tions on its use. Unfortunately, his 
gifts suffered other limitations. 
" Mr. Yale sends you by this 
Ship," wrote Jeremy Dummer, the 
College's London agent, "one 
hundred pounds Sterling ... ! am glad 
to get what I can of him, tho it be 
less than his engagements; for he 
promised me that he would send you 
over 200 Pounds per anno as long as 
he lived, & make a settlement upon 
you forever, to commence immedi-
ately after his death. But I am afraid 
lest being old he should dye & 
neglect it." 

But once these early bequests had
established the skeleton of Yale 
College, the school could no longer 
justify funneling all donations into a 
single project. The initial urgency 
had passed. Yale would survive. For 
the fleshing out of that skeleton, the 
University would depend more on 
on the fetishes and fancies of its 
affluent sons. 

To the distress of Yale's fund-
raisers, the alumni gift became a 
mode of self-expression. Timothy 
Dwight, President of Yale in 1888, 
sought to discourage this trend when 
he told the alumni, "The main object 
is the special want of an increase in 
the General Fund of the University 
as a whole." Despite President 
Dwight's plea, the trend toward 
special grants has continued even to 
the present day, according to John 
Ecklund, the current University 
Treasurer. ''When someone decides 
to contribute," says Ecklund, " we 
try to convince them that a gift unre-
stricted in its potential uses is best 
for Yale." 

One fundraising tactic designed to 
untie the strings from endowments 
has been to de-emphasize the 
alumnus's memory of his particular 
experience at Yale, pushing instead 
a composite image of Youth at Yale. 
If the fundraiser can plant the 
memory of an immortal education 
bound neither by time nor special 
conditions, then the resulting gift 
should be just as limitless. This 
strategy is best illustrated by the 
grandiloquent Amos P. Wilder. 

" Yale men hear the rustle of 
wings," Wilder said, referring to the 
memory of " those plastic years when 
mind and heart quivered under first 
revelation of truth and glimpses 
down corridors of aspiration and 
beauty." 

''The son of Yale,'' he continued, 
"has his eyes fixed on a composite 
teacher who is all wisdom; on a Yale 
boy who is all that a generous, high-
spirited, noble-minded youth should 
be; on an immortal Yale." 

Nevertheless, the restricted



**U.S. Premiere: Sam Shepard's Geography of a Horse Dreamer & Adrienne Kennedy's An Evening with Dead Essex**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
U.S. Premiere 
Sam Shepard's 
Geographv 
of a 
Horse 
Dreamer 
Adrienne 
Kennedy's 
An Evening 
with 
Dead 
Essex 
Provocative and 
entertaining. 
Tremendous power ... 
beautiful. 
Hartford Courant 
Yale Dally News 
At 8 p.m. April 23, 25 and 27, and at 2:30 p.m. on April 27. 
Phone 562-9953 for Reservations 
Join us this week 
for two exciting 
new plays. 
yale repertory theatre 
York & Chapel Sts., New Haven


**Yale's Endowment: Eccentricities**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

Volume seven, number four I April22, 1974 110 
funds- that patchwork of the senti-
mental and the superfluous-now 
total nearly twice the unrestricted 
endowment. And though University 
officials may wish those restricted 
funds could be tapped for genew 
use, even the eccentricities add some-
thing. Their frills lend a flavor to the 
place. 
Would Yale be the same without 
its daffodils? Each spring they 
bloom with the help of sun, soil, and 
the Barbara Foster Vietor Memorial 
Planting Fund, established in 1966 
by the Vietor family and the Acorn 
Foundation. 
Would the library be complete 
without its authoritative six-volume 
critical edition of Bracton's 
Tractatus de Legibus et Consuetu-
dinibus Angliae-the most impor-
tant legal work of the Middle Ages? 
John E. Parsons, 1851, left $5,000 for 
its publication. 
Nor need we starve for sea adven-
ture. The friends of Arthur Sturges 
Hildebrand, who was lost at sea 
while sailing from Greenland to 
Labrador in 1924, have endowed the 
purchase of "books on adventure by 
sea and other kindred subjects." 
Were it not for the 1909 Sunday 
Opening Fund, Yale's museums and 
galleries would be closed on 
Sundays. Graduation, too, would be 
different without the Jerome B. 
Lucke Commencement Attendance 
Fund, which each year brings the 
four oldest living graduates to Yale 
on commencement day. 
And where would we be without 
the Mrs. Hepsa Ely Silliman Memo-
rial Lectures, which "illustrate the 
presence and wisdom of God as man-
ifested in the Natural and Moral 
World"? 
Certainly Yale ~ould survive with-
out these unique gifts, and the other 
curious contributions its alumni con· 
tinue to bestow-2,000 bushels of 
soybeans, for example, or two polo 
ponies, a yacht, a summer cottage. 
It could surely have done without 50 
prize cattle that had to be fed 
Contact 
thi-ough a Midwestern winter, 
costing the University more than the 
herd eventually brought at auction. 
But deprived of the eccentricities 
these funds scatter about the Col-
lege, Yale would be a more prosaic 
place. Only a tradition of gifts that 
assures quality in even the most 
obscure comers of the University 
could breed myths like the Straw-
berry Shortcake Fund and the 
F. Wells Hodges elephant 
scholarship. 
• 'The strawberry shortcake in the 
dining halls used to be so good," 
says George D. Vaill, Assistant 
Secretary of the University, "that 
everyone decided it must be an 
endowment.'' Undergraduates now 
hear of endowments for salad, 
cheesecake and ice cream. But when 
officials in the dining halls and the 
Treasurer's office learned of these 
windfalls, they all replied with 
amused regret, "No such thing." 
The same answer awaited a group 
of ladies in Darien, Conn. when they 
inquired about the F. Wells Hodges 
Scholarship, which was to be 
"awarded to any student in the 
University who shall possess an 
elephant of good character and 
unquestioned need, with qualities of 
leadership, outstanding ability, and 
future usefulness." Darien had just 
received a baby elephant from its 
civic pen-pal-Mecara, India -and 
the ladies wanted to know if all of 
Darien's boys would now be eligible 
for Yale scholarships. 
After a most careful investigation, 
the admissions office found that the 
scholarship was an inner-office spoof 
of Yale's other, more legitimate 
endowments. They notified Darien 
that there were no funds for such a 
Undaunted, the ladies of Darien 
quickly mailed in their response, 
payable to the F. Wells Hodges 
account: five quarters, eight dimes, 
eight nickels, 23 pennies, one British 
shilling, one New York City subway 
token, and five green stamps: 0


**Reinforcement for a Skinner Break**
**Author: John Yandell**
**Page number(s): 11**

CVolume seven, number four I April22, 1974111 
Reinforcement for a 
Skinner &eak 
(continued from page 2) 
We talked about the weather- he 
hadn't much liked the cold March in 
Cambridge. He told me about his 
impending'tetirement a.nd his poor 
eyesight. His depth perception is 
particularly bad. He carries a cane to 
help himself over curbs. "This is the 
one profession, I suppose, where I 
could work as long as I have," he 
said. But retirement from teaching 
would not mean an end to his work. 
There would be more time in fact for 
his writing. 
The attention Skinner attracted 
• 
with the publication of Beyond 
Freedom and Dignity more than two 
years ago has affected him very 
little. He became an instant cele-
brity, appearing on several television 
talk shows. In the Spring of 1972, 
Skinner came to Yale for three days 
and allowed a panel of critics to open 
fire on him and his theories. 
He seems to have grown weary of 
such distractions. While we talked, 
the phone rang. Someone on the 
other end offered him a speaking 
engagement. "No, I'm sorry," he 
said, "I'm turning down everything 
without exception. That sounds very 
interesting, but if I took every 
interesting offer, I would never get 
any work done." 
During the past year, Skinner told 
me, he has refused invitations for 
expenses-paid speaking engage-
ments in Hawaii, Switzerland, and 
Palm Springs. Why not go and 
enjoy the free vacation? 
"Why would I want to go to Palm 
Springs?" he answered. "I'd be 
bored there; there'd be nothing for 
me to do there." 
Implicit in the comment was 
Skinner's dedication to his work. He 
described the intense effort involved 
in his writing. "I write very, very 
slowly,'' he said. ''Someone figured 
it out to one or two words a minute." 
Though critics often compliment 
Skinner for the clarity of his writ-
ings, they frequently misinterpret 
his meaning -
a pattern to which 
he has resigned himself. When his 
Utopian novel Walden Two was pub-
lished in 1948, Life magazine called 
it "a slur upon a name, a corruption 
of an impulse." Skinner himself be-
lieves that Thoreau could have 
• appreciated the community he 
designed. He read me an early re-
view of his next book, written to 
correct the mistaken interpretations 
that followed the publication of 
Beyond Freedom and Dignity. 
Skinner held up the review and 
pointed to a typographical star ap-
pearing next to it in the clipping 
which signified the importance of 
the review. "My publisher sent me 
this with a note saying 'oh look isn't 
this great,'" Skinner said dryly. 
The review was highly unfavorable. 
Skinner, it asserted, recommended 
controlling human behavior by 
threat of punishment, that is, by 
pairing unacceptable behavior with 
aversive physical or mental conse-
quences. 
"I've spent my life arguing that 
people should be free from aversive 
control,'' Skinner said. "I just don't 
understand it," he said of the review. 
"This isn't someone writing about 
my book - it's someone letting 
out some ideas he already had about 
B.F. Skinner." 
The assumption that any control 
of human behavior must be coercive 
is not uncommon among Skinner's 
critics. He argues that their mistake 
is assuming that behavior is ever free 
from one sort of control or another. 
Once man has admitted that here-
sponds to structured contingencies 
in his environment, he may learn to 
manipulate them to solve the prob-
lems of social organization in the 
20th century. 
Walden Two speculates about pos-
sible manipulations. Only its live-
stock are controlled by threat of 
punishment. Its human members 
live there because they like it. The 
community's managers and planners 
have eliminat.ed aggressive behavior 
between members. Each resident 
contributes about four hours of labor 
a day to the necessities of subsist-
ence. The remaining time is devoted 
to leisure, athletics, or creative and 
intellectual pursuits. 
Skinner believes that realistic so-
lutions to current social problems 
must come in piecemeal fashion. "No 
one in this society could have the 
position Frazier does in Walden 
Two," he said. Yet he remains ena-
moured of the vision of that myth-
ical community. He smiles openly 
when he speaks of it. He believes 
most people would prefer it to the 
lives they presently live. 
I asked him if given the chance he 
could create such a community 
today."! never had the courage to 
found Walden Two when I was 
younger," Skinner said, avoiding my 
question but revealing more than I 
had asked for."Now of course I'm 
too old." He glanced at me and then 
looked away quickly. It was as if he 
had just excused himself to a young 
admirer for something he ought to 
have tried. 
As I was leaving his office, 
Skinner consulted a bookcase and 
presented me with reprints of two of 
his articles. "Here's some reinforce-
ment for you," he said. 0
John YandeU is a junior history 
major in Berkeley College. 


corner of york and chapel streets 
Presents 
AN EVENING WITH 
CARMEN DE LAVALLADE 
AND 
THE BILL EVANS TRIO 
Friday, May 10 and Saturday, May 11 at 8:00P.M. 
Sunday, May 12 at 3:00P.M. 
YALE UNIVERSITY THEATRE 
222 YORK ST. 
Tickets $6.50, $5.50 and $4.50. At the Yale Repertory 
Theatre Box Office, corner of York and Chapel Sts. 
For Information and Reservations, Phone 436-1600.


The cure for 
spring munchies! 
A&A COFFEE SHOP 
M onday- Friday: 9 am to 4 pm 
LORD'S CAFETERIA 
IN COMMONS 
Monday- Friday 11:45a.m. to 1:30 p.m. 
KUNE BIOLOGY TOWER 
Monday-F riday: 9amto2pm 
Continental breakfast: 9-11 
Lunch: 11:30-1:30 
Light lunch: 1:30-2 
CAFE IN COMMONS 
Sunday-Thursday: 8:30 pm to 1 am 
DURFEE SWEET SHOP 
M onday - Friday Noon to 4 pm 
7:30 pm to 1 am 
Saturday & Sunday: 7:30 pm to 1 am 


111111111111111 
I "~ 
ONCE A YEAR 
CLEARANCE 
SALE 
20% Off 
Every Book in Stock 
3DAYSONLY 
ThurseFrieSat 
AprillB-19-20 
The Yale Co·op 
77Broadway 
New Haven 
00 
~ 
(1) 
..... 
8 
00 .s 
·c 
0 > 
CIS 
IZ.. 
CD 
-<1) -
«< 
>< 
STORE HOURS 
Daily 9:15-5:30 
Thursdays Until 9 
111111111 
CiD 
-


**Blintzes Grow on Trees - from the Wisdom of Chelm Presents Isaac Bashevis Singer's SHLEMIEL THE FIRST**
**Page number(s): 12**

Blintzes grow on trees -
from the Wisdom of Chelm 
Isaac Bashevis Singer's 
SHLEMIEL THE FIRST 
A Comedy with Songs 
directed by Isaiah Sheffer 
In the Repertory thru May 18 
I Call 562-9953 For Reservations J 
The Frogs is Coming May 20 

