Publication date: Oct 2016
Volume: 49
Issue number: 2

**MASTHEAD:**
- editors-in-chief: elena saavedra buckley, isabelle taft
- managing editor: spencer bokat-lindell
- senior editors: sophie haigney, sarah holder, yi-ling liu, aaron mak, david rossler
- associate editors: ruby bilger, victorio cabrera, eliza fawcett, amelia nierenberg, aaron orbey, natalie yang
- copy editors: griffin brown, philippe chlenski, harry gray, rohan naik
- design editors: ivy sanders schneider, allison primak
- assistant designer: elaine wang
- photo editors: elinor hills
- web designer: mariah xu
- web developer: philippe chlenski
- members and directors: Emily Bazelon, Peter Cooper, Jonathan Dach, Kathrin Lassila, Eric Rutkow, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, Fred Strebeigh, Aliyya Swaby
- advisors: Neela Banerjee, Richard Bradley, Susan Braudy, Jay Carney, Andy Court, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Susan Dominus, David Greenberg, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Laura Pappano, Jennifer Pitts, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, David Slifka, John Swansburg, Anya Kamenetz, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- friends: Nicole Allan, Margaret Bauer, Mark Badger and Laura Heymann, Susan Braudy, Julia Calagiovanni, Elisha Cooper, Haley Cohen, Peter Cooper, Andy Court, The Elizabethan Club, David Freeman and Judith Gingold, Paul Haigney and Tracey Roberts, Bob Lamm, James Liberman, Alka Mansukhani, Benjamin Mueller, Sophia Nguyen, Valerie Nierenberg, Morris Panner, Jennifer Pitts, R. Anthony Reese, Eric Rutkow, Lainie Rutkow, Laura Saavedra and David Buckley, Anne-Marie Slaughter, Elizabeth Sledge, Caroline Smith, Elizabeth Steig, Aliyya Swaby, John Jeremiah Sullivan, Daphne and David Sydney, Kristian and Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Townsend Wilson, Daniel Yergin, William Yuen


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- points of departure — Mikayla Harris, Catherine Peng
- profile — MONTANA, RUNNING BACK — Mark Rosenberg
- snapshot — ETHICALLY ENROLLED? — Sarah Holder
- essay — PAPERS, PLEASE — Victorio Cabrera
- cover — TRUMP AND MAN AT YALE — Isabelle Taft
- feature — THE COUNTDOWN — Eliza Fawcett
- poem — KOOKABURRA SITS IN THE OLD GUM TREE — Rachel Yalowitz
- endnote — I AM THE MAN YOU KILLED IN THE WAR... — Micah Osler


**Title: points of departure**
**Author: Mikayla Harris, Catherine Peng**
**Page number(s): 4**
...


**Title: profile**
**Author: Mark Rosenberg**
**Page number(s): 9**
MONTANA, RUNNING BACK


In the middle of the night, a rising Yale football star left the team


**Title: snapshot**
**Author: Sarah Holder**
**Page number(s): 13**
ETHICALLY ENROLLED?


Students navigate accusations of sexual harassment against famous professors


**Title: essay**
**Author: Victorio Cabrera**
**Page number(s): 16**
PAPERS, PLEASE


I fought the bureaucracy, and it was a draw


**Title: cover**
**Author: Isabelle Taft**
**Page number(s): 20**
TRUMP AND MAN AT YALE


The GOP’s existential crisis comes to campus


**Title: feature**
**Author: Eliza Fawcett**
**Page number(s): 31**
THE COUNTDOWN


New Haven is refocusing its efforts to tackle homelessness. Is that enough?


**Title: poem**
**Author: Rachel Yalowitz**
**Page number(s): 30**
KOOKABURRA SITS IN THE OLD GUM TREE


**Title: endnote**
**Author: Micah Osler**
**Page number(s): 37**
I AM THE MAN YOU KILLED IN THE WAR...



**Seize the Pole**
**Author: Mikayla Harris**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 4
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
SEIZE THE POLE
P O I N T  O F  D E PA R T U R E
At PoleFly, sexiness and sport go together
Mikayla Harris
Wooster Square’s hottest fitness 
space is an empty dance studio with 
ten-foot metal poles bolted to the 
ground and ceiling. On a recent Sun­
day, a friend and I visited the studio, 
which sits in a small brick building 
across the street from Sally’s Apizza. It 
was a hot and humid day, and the last 
thing I wanted to do was exercise—
especially when that exercise was pole 
dancing.

A tall, lanky woman with pink-
streaked, 
strawberry-blonde 
hair 
greeted us at the door. She wore a tight 
blue crop top and low-rise sweatpants 
with slits up the sides showing off 
toned, muscular legs. She introduced 
herself as Jessica Lynn, our instructor 
and the owner of the studio, PoleFly. 
We walked into a room with wall-to-
wall mirrors, lined with stability balls, 
light hand weights, and yoga mats. It 
was a cozy space, private and serene. 
But the eight poles interspersed 
throughout the room made it obvious 
that this was not your traditional dance 
class. 

Lynn gave us a rundown of the stu­
dio rules. Number one: no jewelry. It 
can scratch the poles. Number two: 
no lotion. While poling, your palms, 
among other things, can get sweaty, 
and lotion weakens your grip. As my 
friend said, “This pole is more stable 
than any relationship I’ve ever been 
in.” Nobody wants to complicate that 
with lotion. 

PoleFly opened in 2013 and, in 
addition to pole dancing, offers aerial 
hoop, barre, and chair dancing classes. 
Lynn was surprised that my friend and I had never heard 
of the studio before; Yale students are some of her best 
customers. Visitors range from members of Yale Danc­
ers to students at the Divinity School to players on the 
football team. But her most frequent patrons? Women 
at bachelorette parties.  

Pole dancing has been popular since the nine­
teen-eighties, but its reputation and purpose are con­
tested and evolving. In recent years, many pole afi­
cionados have championed it as a non-sexual form of 
exercise. “Up until a few years ago,” Lynn said, “to say 
you did pole dancing was a taboo.” Before she opened 
PoleFly, Lynn worked as a bartender in downtown New 
Haven. She took pole-dancing classes in order to stay 
in shape, but when she mentioned her pole work, cus­
tomers at the bar responded by asking her which club 
she danced for. 

At the same time, there are amateur and professional 
competitions for pole enthusiasts, branded as purely 
athletic. Like at nightclubs, woman are usually the ones 
competing, and the uniform is often a glorified bra and 
underwear—but that’s more utilitarian than aesthetic. 
Skin contact with the pole is required for inversions 
because it creates the friction needed for flips and 
tricks (another reason for the “no lotion” rule). And for 
these athletes, little about pole dancing is glamorous. 
They have callused hands, they get bruises, and their 
skin peels off. Still, the US Pole Dance Federation—an 
organization founded in 2008 to organize national pole 
dancing competitions—boasts the tagline “The Sleek, 
The Strong, The Sexy.” Lynn said that the purely ath­
letic focus ignores the fact that many women learn how 
to pole dance as a form of entertainment, not exercise. 
Now, most competitions have a separate section for 
“exotic dance.” And studios like PoleFly, popping up 
across the country, walk a delicate line between draw­
ing customers through the activity’s sexy reputation 
and insisting on its serious athleticism. 

We began the class with a light warm up to “Uptown 
Funk.” After we finished our squats and dynamic 


--- Page 5 ---

OCTOBER 2016
 5
stretches, we started to learn a couple of basic tricks. 
Our first move was called “walking around the pole,” 
which consisted of walking around the pole. Then we 
moved on to some more complicated moves, the most 
intense being the fireman spin. Imagine a fireman slid­
ing down the pole in the station to get to the truck. 
That’s the basic configuration of the spin, but instead 
of sliding down, you use the momentum from initially 
swinging your outside leg (the one farthest from the 
pole) to leap up and spin around the pole several times. 
I did it, but I can’t say it was graceful. Lynn made it 
all look easy. She has been “poling” for about five and 
a half years, ever since a friend took her to a class and 
got her hooked. She loved the challenge of it, and she 
found it much more fun than working out at the gym. 
She supplemented her classwork by training at home 
on a pole she had installed in her living room.

“I have a ton of toenail polish scrapings on my ceil­
ing from inversion kicks I would practice on the pole,” 
she said with a laugh. “It’s only about eight feet tall.”

Next we learned some “sassy floorwork” to combine 
with the pole tricks for a final dance combination. First 
up: the body roll.

“Imagine you’re squatting over a nasty toilet at a club 
and then you’re using the pole to help roll your body 
up,” Lynn explained. “Now slide all the way down the 
pole to the floor with your legs in a wide squat position 
like you don’t even care how dirty the bathroom floor 
is.”

Described as such, the moves did not sound sexy. 
Lynn went on to describe the first part of a turn as 
“sniffing your armpit.” She tries to make her language 
as desexualized as possible. 

“Once you say the word ‘sexy,’ people get uncom­
fortable,” she explained. “Most people come here for 
a workout, and even the people that do come here to 
learn how to dance ‘sexy’ get anxious when they actu­
ally hear that word.” 

PoleFly offers about twenty-five group classes a 
week, but instructors also lead private parties. And 
those, according to Lynn, get a bit crazier; at bachelor­
ette parties, Lynn will often lead chair or lap dancing 
classes. In such cases, it’s clear that the participants are 
not there for a workout, so Lynn often uses more sex­
ual language than she would use in a traditional class. 
Although the crowds are rowdier, she enjoys teaching 
them: it’s usually everyone’s first time poling, and the 
vibe is less morning-at-the-gym and more night-at-the-
club. But the number one rule she gives to groups is 
that they are not allowed to attend the class under the 
influence of drugs or alcohol. 

“It’s a workout, so they can’t be drunk and trying to 
do it,” Lynn explained.

Not everybody follows the rules. “One girl was so 
drunk that I had her just sit in the corner and play with 
one of the stability balls,” Lynn said. “She still threw 
up.”

We performed our final routine to Beyoncé’s “Me, 
Myself, and I.” It was about a minute and a half long, 
and it combined the moves we had learned: walks 
around the poll, fireman spins, and body rolls among 
others. I can’t really say how I looked while doing it. 
I was watching Lynn the whole time, trying to mimic 
her movements. By the end, I was dizzy from all of our 
spinning and had broken a sweat. The next morning 
I woke up with sore arms despite the fact I had barely 
left the ground. I watched some videos of professional 
pole events, and I was struck by the athleticism of the 
women competing. Pole dancing is no joke: it’s a seri­
ous workout. Yet when I was on the phone with my 
mom later that week and she asked what I did Sunday 
afternoon, I didn’t tell her about my time at PoleFly. 
Lynn said pole dancing “doesn’t have to be a shameful 
thing,” but it still wasn’t something I wanted to talk 
about. 

During the class, Lynn and the other women, includ­
ing myself, wore their hair down. Being able to flip your 
hair while performing the dance makes it more fun. 
But I have never been in another fitness class where 
everyone kept their hair down. We were doing chal­
lenging moves, but at the same time we were being, 
well, sexy. PoleFly instructors don’t use sexual language 
because they don’t need to: people taking their classes 
know what they’re signing up for. While for women, it’s 
hard to be simultaneously sexual and athletic, for men 
there’s no such clear divide. What PoleFly and profes­
sional pole dancers are attempting to do is clear a space 
for women to be both. It’s no small feat. 
— Mikayla Harris is a senior 
in Silliman College.
“ONCE YOU SAY THE 
WORD ‘SEXY,’ PEOPLE GET 
UNCOMFORTABLE.”


**Camera Lucida**
**Author: Catherine Peng**
**Page number(s): 6**

 6
CAMERA LUCIDA
John Chirikjian takes a photo every day 
Catherine Peng
On his 784th day at Yale, John Chirikjian takes a 
picture of me in the bustling Branford dining hall. 
His camera is pressed close to his chest, and his dark 
eyes narrow. Then comes the click. Chirikjian pauses 
to compare this photo to the ten he has already taken 
today and to the thousands he has taken during three-
plus years at Yale. He won’t show me the shot before he 
leaves, tucking his camera to his side, but hours later I 
will find my own photo online, where anyone can see 
it.

Chirikjian always knows precisely how many days 
he has been at Yale, because since the beginning of 
his freshman year he has taken a photograph every day 
and posted it in a public Facebook album (titled “‘Take 
it Slow’ ~ Dean Loge,” referring to the former Dean 
of Timothy Dwight college). The most recent photo 
when we spoke was the sixteenth photo of Chirikjian’s 
senior fall and the 783rd in the collection. A computer 
science major in Timothy Dwight—the site of his very 
first photo entry— Chirikjian began the project to 
share his college experience with his parents. Posting 
photos online, where friends and family expect to see 
them, keeps him accountable. 

Chirikjian’s photos are meant to resemble a shared 
diary account of everyday life on campus. From his first 
breathless still taken on August 24, 2013 to a shot of 
a colorful summer night under the lights of Ashley’s 
Ice Cream Shop shop on September 16, 2016—the 
day before we spoke—Chirkijian’s photos are touching 
not only because of the moments they capture, but also 
because of their consistency. The album displays his 
meticulous devotion to Yale, shot by shot. 

 “Every once in a while when I’m feeling sentimen­
tal, I’ll go through all the photos,” says Jordan Plotner, 
his close friend and freshman-year roommate. It’ll 
always bring me to this place of timeless nostalgia.”

There are moments in the album that could belong 
to any Yale student—photos such as Harkness (#166), 
Questionably Necessary Bag Checks At Bass Library 
(#432), HalloWoads (#569)—but there are also pho­
tos so personal that they might be best understood by 
close friends, or Chirikjian alone. There are his New 
Haircuts (#466), his Mustache Parties (#269), his Suite 
Teethbrushing (#194). His closest friends sparkle in 
these photos, pulling viewers into scenes that they have 
not experienced. It feels strange and intrusive to study 
these photos as an outsider to Chirikjian’s private life—
to feel a false nostalgia for another’s memory as you 
click through the collection.

I need to ask for an explanation from Plotner on the 
Attempts to Bleach Hair w/ Teeth-Whitening Tooth­
paste (#467), for instance, which captures the reflec­
tion of Chirikjian’s suitemates gathered in a bathroom 
mirror, blow-drying their hair. “That pretty much sums 
up sophomore year,” he tells me. “Mev and Lukas dyed 
their hair blonde, Mev shaved his head, and Lukas 
tried to change his hair color with toothpaste. I was a 
somewhat passive bystander and Chirikjian was taking 
the photo. It’s an odd scene in which every single one 
of us is doing something that doesn’t make sense.”

Chirkijian insists that he doesn’t mind whether the 
pictures are popular in a social space or whether they 
rack up likes from peers. “I’m a social media whore…
but I like to think that I’d choose a more intimate scene 
if it better represents the day,” Chirikjian says. He 
refuses to plan his successive shots, and takes several 
each day in search of the perfect candid.

Though he speaks of capturing intimacy, it often 
escapes him. Even the grainier iPhone photos that dot 
the album are tweaked for color balance, straining for 
faithfulness to reality. 	

“Ideally, every one of this 
series would be a candid scene,” he says. “But more 
often than not, if you pull a camera out, even if it’s just 
a phone, people become instantly aware of it.” 
—
When Chirikjian takes my photo, I think about this 
authenticity. I know he is looking for a natural pose, 
but I can’t stop myself from smoothing the hair near my 



**Title: THE NEW JOURNAL**
**Author: Catherine Peng**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
8
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
face. I know the photo will land on Facebook, where I 
am currently faceless. 
Last April, I deleted my account because I had never 
been interested in following the lives of people I had 
never been close to. However, scrolling through Chirik­
jian’s album on the temporary account I made just for 
this purpose, I feel a sense of closeness with him that is 
unreasonable after only one interview. I know how his 
friend Gabe Eats Fries (#641), with the ketchup at the 
center of the paper plate, and I fall a little in love with 
the way Martha looks in the golden light of afternoon 
in Post-Run Last-Minute Shopping (#121). If I don’t 
feel like I really know Chirikjian, I know at least that I 
am not alone at Yale—that others, too, have Late Walks 
Back from the Library (#298), write Late Papers (#602), 
and sometimes feel as if the world is Cold and Desolate 
(Photo #646). 
In Timothy Dwight, where Chirikjian will hold a 
spring gallery show displaying his project, the commu­
nity has embraced the shots as a shared album. It has 
become a point of pride, he says, for students in the 
college to appear in the photos. 
Chirikjian himself, however, has a hard time remem­
bering a lot of his photos save for his most recent addi­
tions to the album. He calls each photo a reminder of 
the day’s events, stimulating his memory, but he seems 
more concerned with the sense of measured time the 
photos lend him. 
“Everyone here is doing so much,” Chirikjian says, 
and sometimes it overwhelms him. “You talk to any 
one person, and they’ll tell you some of what they’re 
doing, but often they’ll just forget because of the mag­
nitude.” The photos, he tells me, help him understand 
his own progress. 
So many of these pictures are gorgeously composed, 
capturing foggy nights in a dreamscape of soft lavender. 
Chirikjian is a serious artist, and I wondered, as I spoke 
with him, whether the album just amounts to a cele­
bration of his numerous joys on campus. But if I wasn’t 
convinced that Chirikjian’s album is relatable, or com­
pletely naturalistic, I stop questioning once I finally 
find my own photo in the album, #784. I’m convinced 
I fit into what Chirikjian, in a low voice at the end of 
our conversation, tells me in his most pressing sense of 
purpose with the album title.
 “I want to get intimate moments,” he says. “I want to 
get something real. Realer.” 
In the photo, I’m smiling wider than usual with a 
forced slouch. I want to seem comfortable, as if we’re 
talking casually. Looking at the photo, it’s easy to forget 
that Chirikjian, once the shutter snapped, left quickly; 
that he will take another photo, and another, and 
another, until he graduates; that we talked only once. 
But still, in between frames, there is a quiet moment to 
remember with him.
— Catherine Peng is a sophomore 
in Branford College.


**Title: MONTANA, RUNNING BACK**
**Author: Mark Rosenberg**
**Page number(s): 9**

9
MONTANA, RUNNING BACK
P R O F I L E
In the middle of the night, a rising Yale football star left the team. 
Mark Rosenberg
Just past midnight on August 19, as the rest of the 
Yale football team slept before the first day of fall 
camp, Andrew Grinde made his getaway. The five-
foot-eleven freshman running back slipped out of his 
room in Lanman-Wright Hall, taking care not to rouse 
his roommates, and walked out to High Street, where 
an Uber awaited him at the curb. He rode to Union 
Station, then boarded a night train to Philadelphia. 
By the time Grinde’s teammates woke up, he was long 
gone. He’d left behind a gift—a big yellow and grey 
suitcase filled with most of his clothes, which the other 
freshman recruits proceeded to rifle through—and a 
lot of questions.
“The coaches were really impressed with him,” 
freshman wide receiver Caden Herring said, “and he 
just up and leaves.” Offensive lineman Lucas Tribble, 
who is also a freshman, put things more explicitly: “We 
were all kind of like, ‘What the fuck?’”
—
Grinde grew up playing sports with his older brother 
Jimmy and working on his family’s farm in Great Falls, 
Montana, a tight-knit community of 60,000 nestled 
between mountains and farmland. Though his parents 
divorced when he was young, they “supported him 
through everything,” he wrote in an email from Boze­
man, Montana last month. Throughout high school he 
Photograph by Matthew Leifheit



**Title: The Unexpected Journey of Andy Grinde**
**Author: Mark Rosenberg**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 10
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
went for bike rides and lifted weights with his mother 
Cyndy, a personal trainer, and ate dinner with her five 
nights a week.

To Grinde, Montana is the greatest place in the 
world. “You feel a sense of freedom,” he wrote. “Peo­
ple in Montana are able to live their lives doing what 
they want to do.” In Great Falls and the surrounding 
suburbs, football is king, and Grinde was at the center 
of it all. He started playing flag football in third grade, 
tackle in fifth. This will be the first season he’s sat out.

“Football played a huge role in my life,” he wrote. 
“All the life lessons it taught me, the pathways it 
opened up for me, the relationships I gained from it.”

As a junior, Grinde was named Montana’s Gato­
rade Player of the Year. That year, he rushed a class 
record of 2,180 yards and twenty touchdowns, leading 
the C.M. Russell High School Rustlers to the Class 
AA state championship game. His name shows up five 
times in the state record books. “Watch his film,” Yale 
Assistant Coach Derrick Lett told me. “He’s the best 
player in Montana.”

The eleven-minute high school highlight reel, which 
has been viewed over two thousand times online, is 
utterly silent. No 2 Chainz, no trap beats, not even a 
roar from the crowd. There’s nothing to distract from 
the football. At 210 pounds, Grinde has the stocky 
build of a power running back. But he’s got speed, too; 
the video opens with Grinde catching a screen in the 
backfield and sprinting seventy yards down the left 
sideline with the entire defense in hot pursuit. In the 
next clip, he jukes a hapless defender to the ground. 
He blocks a massive lineman onto his back, makes a 
leaping sideline catch, and spins out of a defender’s 
arms in a split second.

The Gatorade press release mentions academic cre­
dentials in step with Grinde’s athletic prowess: 4.0 GPA, 
vice president of his class, elementary school tutor, 
Special Olympics and United Way volunteer, youth 
soccer coach. He played basketball on the side—and 
led the state in three-point shooting percentage. Paul 
Rice, Yale’s Montana recruitment coordinator, tracked 
Grinde down after that junior season. “He had Ivy 
League aspirations and grades,” Lett said. He was the 
kind of recruit coaches covet. Harvard and Columbia 
were after him, too, but ultimately Grinde chose Yale. 
He liked Yale’s coaching staff, he had gotten along well 
with his teammates during his recruitment visit, and he 
was excited to live in New Haven.

Grinde’s success brought him statewide renown. 
“He’s a small-town hero,” wrote Patrick Brennan, a 
high school friend of Grinde’s. “Everyone wanted to be 
associated with him.” That reputation awaited Grinde 
at Yale: Division I football, a potential starring role, the 
chance to play in front of tens of thousands of fans at 
the Harvard-Yale Game.

Grinde arrived in New Haven as part of a twen­
ty-nine man recruiting class deemed the best in the 
Football Championship Subdivision in 247Sports’s
Grinde (center) with his high school football 
team, The Bobcats. Photo provided by Grinde.


---

 11
OCTOBER 2016
Composite Team Rankings. Preseason training began 
on July 2; though the team can’t hold official prac­
tice until late August, the summer months provide a 
chance for incoming freshmen to lift, condition, and 
bond. Grinde seemed to be thriving. “He was doing 
well with the players,” Lett said. “All signs were that he 
was happy.”

“We all loved Andy,” Herring agreed. “Andy was the 
man.”

But for a college student, playing football means sac­
rifice. Players can’t schedule classes between two and 
eight. The afternoons are packed with treatment ses­
sions, film sessions, and practice. Sometimes, the com­
mitment pushes players to the brink. “When we have 
early morning lifting, we always joke about quitting,” 
Herring said. “But we’re never going to do it.”

“If you don’t love the game,” Tribble said, “you’d 
rather die than play college football.”


In Grinde’s junior year of high school, as the acco­
lades came pouring in, the demands of the sport started 
to wear on him, and he began to consider taking a year 
off before college. “I knew a break off for one year 
would rejuvenate me,” he wrote. “The only reason I did 
not act on my dream was because of football.” Grinde’s 
array of academic and athletic demands was a heavy 
burden. “Privately, he’s under tremendous expecta­
tions and stress,” wrote Brennan. “In the public eye, 
he’s calm and true.”

After a season of awards and broken records, Grinde’s 
future was secure. He committed to Yale on August 6, 
2015, before his senior year at C.M. Russell. But his 
love for football started to erode. As the season began, 
he had doubts about whether he wanted to play for 
four more years. Football was making him feel sick 
of school, and impeding his “will to be a happy and 
innovative student,” he wrote. Then, in a mid-October 
game against Billings Senior, he fell on his left shoul­
der and his AC joint separated, sidelining him for sev­
eral games.

Football is a dangerous game, and Grinde knows it. 
“My brother studies neuroscience in college and has 
been warning me about head trauma for a while now,” 
he wrote. “Any life changing injuries like that worry me 
quite a bit, especially since I was blessed with a mind 
that got me into Yale.” Still, Grinde insisted, he never 
would have stopped playing for fear of injury. But in 
the midst of a season in which he was already recon­
sidering his commitment to the sport, this was another 
setback.

As his senior spring turned to summer, Grinde felt 
increasingly set on taking a year off. He knew he could 
rejoin Yale’s team after a year away, though a longer 
deferral would be harder for the coaches to accept. But 
he balked at the last moment and decided to give the 
team a shot. Back home, he was lifting for ten hours 
a week; he showed up to camp at 225 pounds and felt 
stronger than he ever had before.

But at Yale, summer training was nothing like 
Grinde’s usual routine. The team spent only two hours 
a week lifting; the majority of training was spent out 
on the fields, running and doing conditioning drills. 
Grinde lost ten pounds and performed worse and worse 
on the team’s weekly speed and vertical tests. Though 
his teammates and coaches believed otherwise, the 
summer was a struggle for him. He wasn’t enjoying 
football anymore. “I was weaker and slower at the end 
of [the summer] than I should have been,” he wrote. 
“The summer training sucked a lot of my confidence 
for the sport right out of me.”

As August approached, the thought of leaving lin­
gered in Grinde’s mind. He came to a realization: if he 
were to be happy at school, football couldn’t be a part 
of his life. He made the decision. “I never in a million 
years thought I would work up the courage to actually 
take off like I did,” he wrote. “But one night I just did 
it.”

At first, the team heard nothing. Then, a text. The 
only reason he was playing football, Grinde explained, 
was because his dad wanted him to. He didn’t love the 
game anymore. A couple of days after his departure, 
there was another update, this time from Chicago. Two 
weeks later, that was the last the other Yale football 
players heard from him.

The team was blindsided. Incoming freshmen foot­
ball players leave their schools fairly often, Lett said; 
they get homesick, or lose their sense of commitment 
to the sport. But this rarely happens at Yale. In fact, as 
far as Lett knows, this is the first time it’s happened in 
Tony Reno’s five seasons as Head Coach.

Grinde knew he was ultimately headed back home 
to Montana, but he had no plan, no timetable. From 
IN GREAT FALLS AND THE 
SURROUNDING SUBURBS, 
FOOTBALL IS KING, AND 
GRINDE WAS AT THE 
CENTER OF IT ALL.



 12
Philadelphia, he took a train to Harrisburg. Then a 
bus to Pittsburgh. A midnight train to Chicago. He 
explored each city by day and slept on trains and buses 
by night. He was free, careening across the country on 
his own—but not for long.

Steve Schreck of the Great Falls Tribune reported 
Grinde’s departure from Yale on August 24, writing that 
Grinde, “one of the most heralded recruits in recent 
Rustler history, will not be a part of the Yale football 
program this season.” John Amsden, a personal injury 
attorney from Bozeman, Montana, saw the news. He 
reached out to Grinde and offered to help him find 
work in Bozeman. In the midst of his travels, Grinde 
accepted a position as a legal assistant at Amsden’s law 
firm, Beck, Amsden & Stalpes, PLLC. Though Grinde 
had planned to travel for a few more weeks, he put his 
wanderlust aside and took a twenty-eight-hour train 
ride from Chicago, through Minneapolis, and back to 
Montana. Now, Grinde is keeping himself busy, work­
ing at the firm forty hours a week. He has been doing 
research for testimonies, gathering information for 
cases, and assisting Great Falls District Judge Dirk San­
defur in his campaign for a seat on Montana’s Supreme 
Court. In his free time, Grinde takes online courses on 
real estate. And he still works out for a couple of hours 
every day.


Throughout his childhood, Grinde longed to play 
in the NFL. But gradually, that ambition faded. Back 
in Montana, he is pursuing a new dream: a year away 
from football. But even now, the game follows him. He 
owes his internship in part to his stardom—after his 
career at C.M. Russell, the entire state had his back.

Now, he talks of other dreams, of traveling from city 
to city on his own. “I decided to quit living my life for 
other people,” he wrote. He wants to make enough 
money to travel the world. Where does he want to go? 
He tells me it’s “quite a long list.” One day, he hopes 
to buy a lake house. He mentions this out of the blue. 
Why a lake house? “There’s nothing but good vibes 
while staying at a lake house,” he wrote. “And I am 
all about good vibes.” As Grinde dreams of his future, 
football doesn’t appear to cross his mind.

Lett is adamant that Grinde will be back on the team 
next year. “He just needed a bit more time,” Lett said. 
“It’s like riding a bike. When you’re a running back, it’s 
all natural.”

Grinde, however, is uncertain if he’ll return. “I do 
not see myself rejoining the football team,” he wrote 
me. But then, a few days later, he sent me another 
email: “There’s still a chance I’ll play.”

As Yale’s football season unfolds, 107 of his former 
teammates will be lifting, practicing, and playing 
together in New Haven. At Beck, Amsden & Stalpes, 
over two thousand miles away, Grinde will be sitting at 
a desk, living for himself.

— Mark Rosenberg is a freshman 
in Pierson College.



**Title: ETHICALLY ENROLLED?**
**Author: Sarah Holder**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
OCTOBER 2016
 13
Thomas Pogge stands in the doorway of a classroom 
in Linsly-Chittenden Hall, surrounded by a gaggle of 
students. He’s just finished teaching “Global Finan­
cial Integrity,” a Yale college seminar that meets Mon­
days at 3:30 p.m., in style: ten minute late, to rousing 
applause. 

On a Monday afternoon like this, well into Yale’s fall 
semester, it’s easy to forget that just a few months ear­
lier, Pogge was publicly accused of sexual misconduct. 
Last spring, in a Buzzfeed News article entitled “Eth­
ics and the Eye of the Beholder,” Yale graduate stu­
dent Fernanda Lopez Aguilar alleged that Pogge used 
his position to manipulate her into a sexual relation­
ship, punishing her professionally after she resisted his 
advances. The article reported that this incident was 
just one example of Pogge’s misconduct, an “increas­
ingly open secret in the international philosophy com­
munity.” After Lopez Aguilar filed a federal Title IX 
complaint in October 2015, Yale reviewed the case, 
finding evidence of “unprofessional conduct” but not 
enough to support claims of “sexual harassment.”

On June 20, 2016, more than 150 professors and 
colleagues in the field signed an open letter condemn­
ing Pogge’s behavior. “Based on the information that 
has been made public, we strongly condemn [Pogge’s] 
harmful actions toward women, most notably women 
of color, and the entire academic community,” it reads. 
As of its last update on 9:40 PM EST on July 13, 2016, 
the letter has 1,013 signatures. 

Esteemed English professor Harold Bloom has faced 
similar accusations to those mounted against Pogge, 
most publicly in Naomi Wolf’s explosive 2004 New 
York Magazine cover story, “The Silent Treatment.” 
“I was the object of an unwanted sexual advance from 
a professor at Yale,” she wrote, naming Bloom. She 
recounted a strange candle-lit dinner he’d insisted 
upon, during which he had placed his hand firmly on 
her inner thigh. Wolf insisted that Bloom’s advances 
also seemed to be part of an open secret, and wrote 
that she and other former female students had come 
forward with allegations of their own, and condemned 
Yale for not taking the complaints seriously. But 
because the public accusations were made twenty years 
after the private transgressions, Yale again did not take 
action. Critics argued Wolf’s claims were based purely 
on hearsay; Meghan O’Rourke wrote a column in Slate 
vilifying the testimony, called “Crying Wolf.”

The University has not removed Bloom or Pogge, 
because however much media attention their lapses 
received, neither professor has been found guilty by 
Yale—and in Bloom’s case, Yale never investigated. 
This semester, students are again offered the oppor­
tunity to study under these professors, both of whom 
are widely regarded in their fields. Pogge and Bloom’s 
upper-level seminars are both application-based, and 
Pogge’s intro level course is just one of three options to 
fulfill the Political Philosophy requirement in the Eth­
ics, Politics, and Economics major. All three classes are 
small, but every student sitting there made a conscious 
decision to do so.

The complicated nature of the professors’ pub­
lic personas introduces a graver consideration to the 
course-selection process: Should students consider 
allegations like these as they decide to take certain 
classes? Is there a moral calculation involved, and are 
students making it?

—
“The idea that it might be morally wrong to refrain 
from taking a class for the reason that its instructor 
has been accused of sexual misconduct—this idea is 
pretty bizarre,” Pogge wrote to me in an email. An arti­
cle like the one I am writing, he argued, participates 
in the propagation of sexual misconduct charges that 
may be false. “To be sure, any undeserved harm your 
story inflicts could be outweighed by e.g. a compelling 
public interest. In the present case, however, the pub­
lic interest served by your story seems miniscule: the 
ethical question you pose is barely worth discussing 
and could be discussed equally well in generic terms, 
without alerting readers to the accusations against me.”

It’s not surprising Pogge would be willing to look at 
this philosophical question more abstractly—he is a 
philosophy professor. But given the allegations against 
him, some find his ethical focus troubling. This semes­
ter, his seminar is focused on “Global Financial Integ­
rity”; in the spring, they are titled “Ethics & Interna­
tional Affairs” and “Recent Work on Justice.”

“I feel like humans hate hypocrisy instinctively,” said 
Grace Paine, a senior majoring in Political Science 
who considered taking Pogge’s class before realizing 


--- Page 14 ---

 14
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
who would be teaching it. “And so the idea of tacitly 
showing my respect for this person of authority—who 
speaks from his position of authority on morality and 
has a documented history of behaving immorally 
toward young women and abusing his position of 
power—when he talks about global abuses of power 
didn’t sit right with me.” 

However, Pogge’s area of philosophical expertise 
actually has little to do with the kinds of personal and 
professional morality that have been called into ques­
tion, argued Shelly Kagan, a colleague of Pogge in the 
Philosophy department. Pogge studies global poverty 
alleviation, and argues that wealthy countries like the 
United States should help developing countries not in 
the name of “charity,” but out of obligation. 

“Despite the fact that [Pogge] might have behaved 
in ways that seem distasteful and unprofessional and 
even immoral,” Kagan said, “the forms of misconduct 
are not forms of conduct that have anything to do with 
his area of teaching.” 

Lopez Aguilar, who grew up in Honduras, argued 
the opposite. In addition to accusing Yale of violating 
Title IX, which concerns sex-based discrimination, she 
also filed a Title VI complaint, which concerns race. 
“He has a taste for women, most ironically, who hail 
directly or recently through their lineage from devel­
oping and non-Western countries,” she wrote. “Most 
disturbingly, his choice of victim precisely parallel the 
very countries’ consent he purports, in his well-known 
academic theory, to defend as invalid in light of human 
rights abuses.” 

The race dimension exacerbated the already uneven 
power dynamics between Pogge and his student, Lopez 
Aguilar wrote. Linda Alcoff, a Professor of Philosophy 
at Hunter College who signed the open letter, said that 
while one might think Pogge’s specialty would require 
him to be sensitive to intersectional identities, an 
awareness of structural injustices does not always trans­
late into an understanding of identity-based injustices. 
Professors like Pogge, she said, “take the structural stuff 
as a macro framing. It doesn’t always cause them to 
feel that they need to understand racism, sexism, het­
erosexism.”

Even if you were able to separate the question of 
Pogge’s philosophical pursuits and his behavior, she 
added, it wouldn’t make a difference. “Anybody who 
is a professor in higher education has taken on a mor­
ally bound obligation to assist his students and to do 
his scholarship with integrity and with responsibility 
to others,” she said. “That’s true whether you’re doing 
higher energy physics or ethics.”

At 86 years old, after having taught at Yale for six­
ty-one years, Harold Bloom’s complex reputation pre­
cedes him. If you believe the rumors, he’s sexist and 
inappropriate. A womanizer. But he’s also a world-re­
nowned literary critic; preeminent in his field. Bloom’s 
alleged offenses have settled behind a historical haze 
in a way that Pogge’s aren’t. Every year, students still 
jockey for spots in Bloom’s class.

“[The class] was attractive to me because one of 
the things this school professes to be is a collection of 
experts like that,” said a male junior taking Bloom’s 
course, “Poetic Influence: Shakespeare to Keats.” He 
spoke under the condition of anonymity. He had read 
Wolf’s piece before coming to Yale and, after sign­
ing the open letter condemning Pogge, also carefully 
considered the moral implications of studying under 
Bloom, who did not respond to requests for comment. 
“I was wondering, thinking about the article, not know­
ing how to let that enter in my decision matrix,” he 
recalled. How is it possible to reconcile Bloom’s pres­
tige with the specter of what he might have done?

Ultimately, he said, he outsourced the calculus to 
Yale. “There’s this tendency to politicize choice here,” 
he explained. “But if you buy into this institution—and 
you do…—to me, these questions are always a slippery 
slope.” By attending the university, he argued, stu­
dents are already complicit in funding a faculty project 
which is inherently based in a “totally gendered power 
structure.”

For men, it’s often easier to speak in abstract terms 
about the philosophical and moral implications of 
a choice like this. But for women, it’s more compli­
cated—it becomes a choice about whether you are 
willing to risk harassment yourself. 

“I’m hesitant to take any rumor as truth, but I’d 


--- Page 15 ---

 15
rather be safe than sorry,” said Kas Tebbetts, a freshman 
enrolled in the Political Science equivalent of Pogge’s 
lecture, also called “Intro to Political Philosophy,” but 
taught by Bryan Garsten. 

Paine, the senior who chose not to take Pogge’s class, 
was more critical. “The idea in general of having a pro­
fessor who is alleged to have preyed upon undergrad­
uates who he’s teaching makes me kind of sick,” she 
said. “Just sitting in lecture and thinking about all the 
allegations…”

Taking a class with someone who allegedly fits the 
trope of a “male cultish academic figure who feels like 
their brilliance gives them impunity, using power to 
get young women into bed,” as Alcoff described Bloom 
and Pogge, may be a risk. 

Nicole Bokat, the mother of the managing editor of 
this publication, studied at New York University in the 
1980s, when Bloom taught in the English department. 
There were rumors even then, Bokat said. “For exam­
ple, he made a comment that he was so happy to be at 
NYU because the students were so much more attrac­
tive than at Yale,” she recalled.

Bokat did not take a course with Bloom because 
their literary interests didn’t seem to align—she wanted 
to study female authors, and knew “he wouldn’t be 
interested in that”—but, she said, “in the old days, if 
you couldn’t take class with any sexist professors, you 
wouldn’t get your degree.”

Women that do take Pogge’s classes also have grounds 
to hesitate for professional reasons. Kagan mentioned 
a rumor that Pogge has written letters of recommen­
dation for women with whom he’s had romantic but 
not academic relationships. Regardless of whether the 
rumor is true, female graduate students who may have 
turned to Pogge for mentorship might now worry about 
how that association will damage their reputation in 
the long term.

“Yale should take a hard look at its own history in 
regard to professors like Bloom and Pogge and rethink 
the criteria of excellence,” Alcoff said. Hiring schol­
ars who have major influence or who have published 
esteemed books means little when their students can­
not work at their optimal level for fear of harassment. 
“Institutions often separate the quality question from 
the moral question, but you can’t!”

But it is no more the responsibility of women than of 
men to make a political statement in their course selec­
tion. The opportunity to study under literary or phil­
osophical genius is attractive to many—so of course, 
some female students have considered these professors’ 
reputations and chosen to take their classes anyway.

I counted five female students in Pogge’s “Global 
Financial Integrity,” and at least three in “Intro to Polit­
ical Philosophy.” The five I asked declined to speak 
with me. Only men would comment.

“Although there may be questions about morality, 
that doesn’t mean you can’t learn from them, espe­
cially if they have shown themselves to be very good 
at teaching,” said Miles Betterson, a sophomore taking 
Pogge’s lecture. “I did debate over taking it or not, but 
the be all end all was: I’m going to learn a lot.” Besides, 
he needs the humanities credit, and another section 
didn’t work.

 Jacob Malinowski, a freshman, agreed. “I don’t 
endorse anything he’s done in his personal life, and I 
don’t condone the allegations. I just think the class is 
interesting.”

When I ask Gaurav Pathak why he chose to take 
Pogge’s “Global Financial Integrity,” he was quick to 
defend his decision. Pogge’s an incredible speaker, an 
esteemed scholar—and he is only one of three co-lec­
turers who team-teach the course (the other two are 
professionals from Price Waterhouse Cooper and 
McKinsey). “He’s practically a section participant,” 
Pathak said.

Of the nine female students who have taken or are 
taking Bloom’s class I contacted, none agreed to speak 
on the record.

Should a vegetarian boycott a professor for eating 
meat? Should monogamists avoid learning from an 
adulterer? These hypothetical comparisons are pithy 
and easy to swallow. And they miss the point.

The idea of boycotting a class based on a professor’s 
beliefs might seem counter to the project of a liberal 
arts institution, a place that’s supposed to challenge 
assumptions and shape informed, reflective opin­
ions through exposure to dissenting discourse. Taking 
classes from professors whose politics differ from one’s 
own expands these boundaries—as does, one could 
argue, taking a class from a professor whose lifestyle or 
personal choices seem distasteful. 

But here, the stakes are different; higher. The ques­
tion of whether to take a class from one of these pro­
fessors is not always an abstract moral choice. It’s also 
a very concrete question of a teacher’s power over his 
students, and whether or not you can learn from some­
one who might abuse that power in the classroom. 

Either way, it’s impossible to remove the burden of 
individual responsibility. If no one showed up to “Intro 
to Political Philosophy” on the first day of shopping 
period, Pogge wouldn’t be teaching a class. 

— Sarah Holder is a senior 
in Saybrook College.



**Title: PAPERS, PLEASE.**
**Author: Victorio Cabrera**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I fought the bureaucracy, 
and it was a draw
A copy of the initial appointment notice, printed at the Hartford USCIS 
office and modified at the East Hartford biometrics office.


I’m what you call DACA-mented. This means that 
starting in 2002, when my family came over from Uru­
guay and we overstayed our tourist visas, I was totally 
screwed (no papers), and ever since June 2012, when 
Obama decided that he did in fact have the Constitu­
tional authority to re-order our enforcement priorities 
through the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals 
(DACA) program, I have been slightly less screwed. 
Since then, I have had a renewable work permit, 
which allows me to do luxurious things like “work,” 
“get a driver’s license,” and “pay taxes whose benefits 
I will not receive.” All of these privileges are courtesy 
of the Employment Authorization Document, my 
DACA-ment.

But let’s take a step back. I know, it’s crazy that my 
family has lived in South Carolina for thirteen years 
and doesn’t even have green cards. We overstayed our 
visas because we had an uncle who thought that he 
could get us green cards, but he was wrong. Oops. Yes, 
I am pretty American. No, there’s no pathway to cit­
izenship for people like me (all 665,000 Childhood 
Arrivals). I could do a green card marriage, but I’m not 
too keen on the idea of committing a felony. Yes, it’s 
a felony. United States Citizenship and Immigration 
Services (USCIS), has officers whose job it is to sniff 
out true love (what underwear does your spouse wear? 
When did you last have sex?). Yes, my parents would 
totally get deported by President Trump; they’re keep­
ing a set of Very American cheeseburgers constantly 
on the grill just in case Immigration and Customs 
Enforcement (ICE) comes knocking.

With that out of the way, here we are: me, after 
more than a decade in this country, with a work permit 
that can get renewed every two years and serves as my 
only claim to any sort of lawful status in this country. 
I’m currently on my second such work permit, which 
means that I’m only in my fourth year of pseudo-le­
gality. Four years was apparently long enough for me 
to forget how precarious my position is. This is a story 
about what reminded me.

The drama is bureaucratic. Accordingly, it is logis­
tical and boring. I needed to renew my work permit, 
which was going to expire on October 2, 2016. This 
procedure involves some very simple paperwork, which 
I filed in May, and an eventual biometrics appoint­
ment, where USCIS would take my fingerprints and 
picture. Dealing with USCIS is an exercise in waiting 
patiently, so I wasn’t too concerned when July passed 
with no biometrics appointment. But by the end of 
August, I was worried—I now had a month until the 
expiration of my permit, and USCIS takes a month to 
blink. I started inquiring about my case. 

Now, I’ll give credit where credit is due. USCIS has 
a pretty spiffy-looking website, and sometimes it even 
works. It was on this spiffy website, on September 8, 
2016, that I was told—by cursive lettering in a very aes­
thetically pleasing scrollwork graphic—that “on August 
5, 2016, we scheduled you for a biometrics appoint­
ment and mailed you an appointment notice for 
Receipt Number [redacted].” This message presented 
a significant problem. USCIS had not processed an 
address change in time, it turns out, and had sent my 
biometrics appointment to the place I lived during my 
summer job in Fort Lauderdale, whose owner decided 
I didn’t need to be informed about the envelope from 
USCIS that arrived a few days after I left. Now we 
arrive at the emotional high point of the drama: me, 
in the Trumbull College Library, staring at a computer 
screen, silent. (In my mental landscape, screaming and 
breaking things.) 

An expired work permit would mean being fully 
undocumented for a pretty long time as an entirely new 
application was processed. A quick recap of Things It 
is Difficult to Do While Undocumented: work, get on 
an airplane, present ID for literally anything. In short, 
prove to anyone at all that you are a person who exists. 
It would also mean that I would begin accruing unlaw­
ful presence, which would make several pathways to 
legal status more difficult, and, after 180 days, trigger 
a three-year bar on coming back into the country if I 
ever were to leave. I had grown so accustomed to my 
legal status that all of this came as something of a shock 
and an affront. Me? I’ve figured this out! You can’t do 
this to me (again). As my dear friend Donald might say: 
Wrong!

There’s no way to write about what happened next in 
an interesting way, because it was intensely uninterest­
ing. I talked to an immigration lawyer, who advised me 
that there was a biometrics office in East Hartford, and 
that the Hartford USCIS office could print my appoint­
ment notice. I duly made an appointment in Hartford. 
There, I did indeed receive my appointment notice. 
Then, I went to East Hartford, where I explained to the 
immigration officer that I was really trying not to get 
deported and would he please consider letting me do 
the biometrics there with my old appointment notice? 
He smirked a little—I think he was on to my game—
and then said yes, proceeding to edit the appointment 
notice with the most beautiful orange pen I had ever 
seen.

And with that, the ball went out of my court and into 
that of USCIS, which now has to decide whether or not 
my crisis-intervention was timely enough. I wait. Omit­
ted from this boring narrative is a phone call to parents 
(screaming, but who wouldn’t scream) and a strained 
week of being able to accomplish nothing aside from 
making people uncomfortable with my near-hysterical 
jokes about getting deported (“This won’t be funny 
when I’m getting deported!” followed by nervous 
laughter). And, of course, approximately half of the 
World’s Greatest Democracy wishing I would skip all 
this trouble and just get the hell out. 

Maybe USCIS will play nice and renew my work per­
mit despite the delay. This is good. It will not change 
the fact that my legal status depends every two years on 
the caprices of a clanking federal bureaucracy. It will 
not change the fact that the only thing between my 
parents and ICE is the generous, memo-writing hand 
of Department of Homeland Security Secretary Jeh 
Johnson. It does not change the fact that immigration 
reform with a path to citizenship, which would elimi­
nate this country’s institutionalized socio-legal under­
class, is a proposal easily defeated because “amnesty” 
is a bad word in the national morality play. Millions 
of people are at the mercy of How the Base is Feeling.

How The Base Is Feeling becomes law, becomes 
bureaucratic protocol, becomes ontological reality. In 
the nineties, the Base Felt that there were too many 
damn foreigners streaming in from Cuba, and, accord­
ingly, the State of California took the entirely logical 
step of proposing to ban undocumented children from 
public schools. I want to go visit my relatives in Uru­
guay, some of whom I haven’t seen in thirteen years? 
Thunk! I bounce off the invisible walls erected by the 
law. My dad has to drive to work? Thunk! Maybe he 
gets arrested, because the State of South Carolina 
would rather have unlicensed drivers on the road than 
cede to the Illegals by doing anything so weak as giving 
them driver’s licenses. (The People of South Carolina 
seem pretty comfortable with their cheap vegetables, 
and with my dad painting their houses.) 

What is left to say? My life almost got ruined because 
of a bureaucratic hiccup (and still could). Donald 
Trump might become President. As I have been whin­
ing to you in the pages of a Yale magazine, millions of 
undocumented workers have been subsidizing the very 
pleasant lives of people who, at worst, want to ethnically 
cleanse them, and, at best, would probably rather the 
invisible labor stay invisible. Maybe, while you read, 
ICE knocked on some doors to Enforce Our Nation’s 
Immigration Laws. A few weeks ago, I saw someone in 
Ray Bans and chinos wearing a Make America Great 
Again T-shirt. What a fun intellectual exercise that 
must be for him. Fuck this.
— Victorio Cabrera is a junior 
in Trumbull College.



**Title: THE GOP’S EXISTENTIAL CRISIS COMES TO CAMPUS**
**Author: Isabelle Taft**
**Page number(s): 21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
OCTOBER 2016
 21
Alex Thomas, a junior astrophysics major, set down 
his plate and waved his arm. “Meeeeeeee!” he shouted 
at Luntz. “Everyone in America raises their hand,” he 
joked. Thomas, who is the first person in his family to 
go to college, grew up in a largely agricultural, Repub­
lican-leaning community in southern Ohio. He and his 
mother plan to vote for Clinton, even though they dis­
like her, because “she’s not Trump.”

Like Thomas, most of the focus group voters raised 
their hands in answer to Luntz’s question. They chose 
words like “incompetent,” “obnoxious,” “fake,” “liar,” 
and “scary” to describe the candidates, exuding outrage 
and bewilderment. “They’re both honest and dishon­
est,” one woman said. “It depends what you want your 
honesty on.” 

“This entire debate is going to be a slugfest,” one 
on-screen voter predicted. “Back and forth, all personal 
attacks.”

Some of the New Republicans giggled. Grant 
Gabriel, a senior from Nevada who had been involved 
with the College Republicans for three years and has 
worked for Newt Gingrich, shook his head at the televi­
sion. “I’m not going to find this funny,” he said. 

Gabriel describes himself as a “pragmatic conser­
vative,” being moderate on social issues and farther 
right on fiscal policy—approximately the outlook of 
the majority of the self-described conservatives I inter­
viewed for this story. He says he watched with shock 
as Donald Trump “took the political world by storm.” 
As a Classics major, however, he believes history has 
shown that populist movements like Trump’s fizzle out 
quickly. That’s what he hopes will happen, leaving the 
Republican Party he loves intact. He wants the long-
term lesson of Trump and his furious supporters to be 
that the Republican Party must do a better job address­
ing the needs of working-class voters. At the same time, 
he thinks the party must reject Trumpism (and “Trum­
pian rhetoric,” to use another favorite New Republican 
phrase) to move forward. 

A dozen or so Yale students, all men, stared at a 
television tuned to CBS. They had packed into the 
common room of sophomore Michael Fitzgerald’s Sil­
liman suite to watch the first debate of the first presi­
dential election in which they are old enough to vote. 
The men lean right, politically, but they had officially 
disavowed the Republican candidate on stage: Donald 
J. Trump. Trump was the reason they were all in Fitz­
gerald’s suite, instead of at the Yale College Republi­
cans’ watch party in Linsly-Chittenden Hall across 
campus. In August, after the Yale College Republicans 
endorsed Trump, four of the board members, includ­
ing Fitzgerald, quit and started their own organization, 
the New Republicans. They pledged in an inaugural 
Facebook post to be “a more active Republican organi­
zation on campus that will always put national interests 
above partisan ones.”

On the one hand, this position ensured they could 
experience some satisfying schadenfreude no matter 
who prevailed in the debate, because neither candi­
date could embarrass them. On the other hand, what­
ever Trump said over the course of the next 90 min­
utes, given his track record, would probably add to an 
unseemly chapter for the Republican Party they still 
mostly supported, and a less-than-shining moment for 
a democracy they still fervently believed in. 

Fitzgerald, a sophomore who favors tidy slacks and 
plaid button-downs, provided Pepe’s Pizza and bottles 
of Pepsi. As the New Republicans grabbed slices and 
settled in on couches and chairs, Republican poll­
ster Frank Luntz held a conversation on CBS with a 
focus group of 27 undecided Pennsylvania voters wear­
ing blue and white “Hello My Name Is…” stickers. A 
woman with pink hair said she was leaning towards 
Hillary (“There’s a surprise,” a New Republican noted 
drily), while a middle-aged white man declared him­
self the “most Trump person in this room.” A freshman 
who had met the New Republicans at the extracurricu­
lar bazaar alternated between glances at the screen and 
his Bible, which he was reading for Directed Studies. 
Frank Luntz asked the focus group, “Who here is mad 
at the choices we have for President?”


**Title: TRUMP**
**Author: Elinor Hills**
**Page number(s): 20**

photograph & cover
by Elinor Hills
MAN
YALE
and
at



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: [Author not specified]**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 22
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
It’s an argument made by many prominent conser­
vatives across the country. Politicians like Nebraska 
Senator Ben Sasse and former presidential candidate 
Jeb Bush are refusing to vote for Trump while claiming 
that they represent the true values of the Republican 
Party. It’s an argument that could play well here on 
campus, too, where a Yale Daily News survey of the 
Class of 2020 showed that just 5 percent said they sup­
ported Trump; in 2012, a survey by the News showed 
15 percent said they supported Mitt Romney. Yale’s 
William F. Buckley Program, which was founded in 
2010 to promote intellectual diversity on campus and 
is known for inviting right-leaning speakers to campus, 
conducted a national poll that found only 19 percent 
of four-year college students support Trump, compared 
to 42 percent who say they’ll vote for Clinton. But the 
New Republicans are looking beyond campus to insist 
that they can play a role in redefining the GOP. Even 
in an insular environment like Yale, they believe their 
fight is a fight for the soul of the party and the country.
“If, say, in four or eight years we continue nominat­
ing people like Donald Trump and continue down this 
very dark path, I’ll have to leave the Republican Party,” 
said Benjamin Rasmussen, a junior and New Republi­
cans co-chair. “But there is hope. There is hope. We’re 
not out of time yet. We’ll stay with the party, if we’re 
bringing it back to the party of Reagan. But I don’t 
know. The future is very uncertain.” 

The problem is that it’s not clear what, if anything, 
the New Republicans and their conservative compatri­
ots can do to influence the voters that this election has 
revealed and emboldened. The increasingly vocal alt-
right has claimed Pepe the Frog as its unofficial mas­
cot, subjected journalists to anti-Semitic trolling on 
Twitter, and turned a hypothetical wall into a proud 
symbol of nativism. Even beyond the alt-right, many 
Trump voters rage against the elitism and arrogance of 
Washington, and it seems unlikely that anyone with the 
New Republicans’ approach and Ivy League pedigree 
will be able to squash them—or convince them of the 
wisdom of small government principles and overt out­
reach to non-white voters—after November 8.

In Fitzgerald’s common room, Luntz ceded the 
screen to Lester Holt, Clinton and Trump. Soon, 
Trump was proclaiming that the housing crash was good 
business and  not paying taxes made him smart while 
Clinton whipped out a too-cute line about “Trumped 
Up Trickle Down” economics. The New Republicans 
uncorked a bottle of Woodbridge white wine. They 
laughed at some moments, but they also spent a lot of 
time with their heads in their hands. Funny this was 
not. They are still Republicans, and Trump is too. 

Less than a year ago, to many Americans, Republi­
cans, and students on this campus, Trump was funny. 
Rasmussen, a Global Affairs major from the Bay Area 
who says he’s used to being one of the few conservatives 
in the classroom, was studying abroad in Russia when 
Trump rode a golden escalator down to his presidential 
announcement speech in June 2015. Rasmussen says 
he “laughed out loud.” But then Trump’s poll numbers 
spiked and stayed high, and Rasmussen started to get 
nervous. Something was happening in the Republican 
Party that he didn’t understand. 

When he got back to campus, the Yale College Repub­
licans weren’t doing much. The primaries started, and 
Trump won New Hampshire, and then South Caro­
lina, and then a slew of states on Super Tuesday. The 
College Republicans held a debate watch party during 
the primaries, but only board members came. 
“We had all this Popeyes chicken and only like five 
people were there,” Rasmussen recalls. 

No one in the organization supported Trump in the 
primary, according to Rasmussen and Fitzgerald, but 
IN FRONT OF HOUSE 
AFTER HOUSE, FOR MILES 
OF HIGHWAY, YOU SEE 
THE SIGNS: TRUMP.
TRUMP.TRUMP.


--- Page 23 ---

OCTOBER 2016
 23
as the months wore on and one candidate after the 
other fell by the wayside, the group began to discuss 
what they would do in the event of Trump’s nomi­
nation. Early on, there was a division between those 
who disliked Trump but thought he would be better 
than any Democrat, and those who would not support 
Trump under any circumstances. Fitzgerald was espe­
cially disturbed by what he saw at Trump’s rallies; as 
a black man, he says, he would be wary of attending 
one even if he loved Trump. When the semester ended 
and summer began, some Republicans on campus and 
across the country were still hoping for a successful 
eleventh-hour challenge to Trump at the Republican 
National Convention. It didn’t happen. 

After the Harvard Republican Club announced in 
early August that it would not be endorsing Trump, the 
Yale College Republican board members—including 
Rasmussen; Fitzgerald; Gabriel; sophomore Jay Mon­
dal; and co-presidents Emmy Reinwald, a senior, and 
Michaela Cloutier, a junior—convened for a discus­
sion via GroupMe about what to do next. They decided 
that while it was inappropriate to release an official 
repudiation of Trump, they didn’t need to endorse him, 
and Gabriel made the point that doing so could turn off 
potential new members and compromise other work, 
like campaigning for down-ballot candidates such as 
Senator Kelly Ayotte in New Hampshire. “We reached 
a compromise between those who hated him and those 
who felt they had an obligation to the party,” Gabriel 
recalls. 

This strategy of staying quiet and hoping no one 
asked directly seemed viable, Fitzgerald said, because 
the College Republicans are such a small group, with 
three board members at the start of this year and about 
six people who attend events. As Reinwald and Clout­
ier would later point out in an article they published 
on The Tab about their endorsement of Trump, before 
August 8 the Facebook page had just forty-eight likes. 
(The Yale College Democrats have over 1,700.)

But a week later, the College Republicans GroupMe 
blew up again: Someone had created a fake Twitter 
account and posted the message, “The Yale College 
Republicans will not be supporting Donald Trump in 
the fall. More information to come.”

Gabriel, checking Overheard at Yale from Boston, 
watched news about the Twitter account attract com­
ments asking if the tweet was true. “Things sort of 
snowballed,” Gabriel says, but he still thought the sit­
uation could be resolved with a neutral statement that 
said nothing about Trump while criticizing the imper­
sonation and theft of the College Republicans’ logo. 
But the co-presidents saw it differently. They felt the 
situation demanded a show of vocal support for Trump, 
and by the time they told the other board members 
what they were doing, their statement was already up 
on Facebook. It was shared over two hundred times. 
“While not every member of our organization sup­
ported Trump in the primary, as an organization and 
branch of the GOP we support Republicans up and 
down the ballot,” it read in part. “And yes, that includes 
supporting Donald Trump for president.”

Rasmussen was on the subway in New York as the 
events unfolded, and when he got off, the endorsement 
was up. He and the other future New Republicans 
tried to persuade Reinwald and Cloutier to revise the 
statement, but they refused. Individual board mem­
bers could post their own comments on Facebook, the 
co-presidents said, but the official stance of the Yale 
College Republicans was that Trump should be the 
next president of the United States. 

Rasmussen, who founded an organization called the 
American Patriots Club at his high school, says he had 
joined the College Republicans because he wanted 
to advance the cause of conservative politics on cam­
pus. He felt the Trump endorsement would make that 
impossible. “We’d be forever branded, not as conser­
vatives or Republicans, which already has negative 
connotation on this campus,” he said, “but as Trump 
supporters.”

Fitzgerald, Rasmussen, Gabriel, and Mondal told 
Reinwald and Cloutier they were resigning. (They 
reached out to the last board member, sophomore Ben 
Zollinger, but he said he supported the endorsement 
and would keep his position.) They considered trying 
to impeach the two co-presidents, but the organiza­
tion’s constitution provided no process for that. Rein­
wald and Cloutier declined to comment for this story; 
one College Republican I approached in person said 
he saw “no necessity to give interviews to the main­
stream media.” (I asked to talk with them again after 
it became clear that Trump’s “grab them by the pussy” 
video was reshaping the race and the national chair­
man of the College Republicans announced she would 
not vote for Trump. Reinwald replied, “We’re not com­
menting.”)

Among the ex–board members, the idea of starting 
an anti-Trump Republican organization took shape. 
Within days, Fitzgerald had built a website and the 
group had drafted a statement. They emailed Clout­
ier and Reinwald to explain what they were doing, and 
then they went live with a Facebook post. The Wall 
Street Journal, Politico, and Breitbart picked up the 
story. Rasmussen appeared on Fox News to argue with 
Ryan Fournier, the National Chairman of Students 
for Trump, a big-haired, smooth-faced North Carolin­
ian who said the New Republicans were throwing the 


--- Page 24 ---

 24
election to Clinton. Rasmussen countered that he was 
helping to “save the Republican Party from its eventual 
collapse.” 

Various right-wing sites also wrote about the New 
Republicans. USA Politics Today called them “appall­
ing,” while the Gateway Pundit (“Where Hope Finally 
Made A Comeback”) declared them “sick.” As of early 
October, the Yale New Republicans’ sole Facebook 
post—their introductory message—had attracted fif­
ty-six likes, as well as comments from people with no 
apparent Yale affiliation. “You are a disgrace to our 
country and party,” wrote a man named Phillip Hefner.

Rasmussen dismissed the backlash as a sign that 
the New Republicans were on the right track. But the 
online hate also seemed to reflect a disturbing revela­
tion of this election cycle: There is little respect left 
between the GOP voters who anointed Trump their 
nominee and the party elite. A group of earnest Yale 
kids who think they know what’s best for America made 
a satisfying stand-in punching bag for The Establish­
ment. 

The reaction on campus, however, has been largely 
positive. The New Republicans share articles writ­
ten about them on their Facebook page and say they 
received emails from incoming freshmen even before 
the semester started. But Rasmussen, a first-gener­
ation college student whose mother is a mail carrier 
and whose father is a house painter, hasn’t told his dad 
about his new extracurricular. His father has been a 
Trump supporter from the very beginning of the cam­
paign. Rasmussen does, though, talk about the New 
Republicans with his grandfather, who’s a somewhat 
less dedicated Trump supporter. The conversations 
aren’t exactly cheerful.

“He thinks I’m dividing the party. He thinks I’m 
giving in to Hillary,” Rasmussen says. “He thinks that 
if we don’t elect Trump, then the Republican Party’s 
doomed. But if we do elect Trump, the Republican 
Party’s more doomed.” While Rasmussen was busy try­
ing to build a space for right-leaning Yalies who hate 
Trump, he had to communicate across a growing frac­
ture between himself and the people back home.

Yale is a liberal campus, but the undergraduate com­
munity is dotted with conservative organizations: the 
Yale Political Union’s Party of the Right, the Federal­
ist Party, the Tory Party, and the Conservative Party; 
the Yale Free Press; the Objectivist Study Group; and, 
since 2010, the well-funded, non-profit and non-parti­
san William F. Buckley Program. Last year, the Buckley 
Program boasted 174 student fellows (including Rein­
wald, Cloutier, Rasmussen, and Gabriel; Fitzgerald is 
applying this year) who attend events and dinners with 
speakers. Unlike the College Republicans and now the 
New Republicans, these organizations are devoted pri­
marily to discussing ideas, not to electoral activism. 

At a recent reception held by the Buckley Program 
at The Study, this preference for high-minded prin­
ciples was on full display. Buckley was celebrating its 
reprinting of the 1975 Woodward Report, which laid 
out a strong institutional commitment to free speech. 
The remarks of federal appellate judge José Cabranes, 
who got his law degree from Yale in 1965, didn’t sound 
totally un-Trumpian—he criticized political correct­
ness and the implementation of a shadowy universe of 
federally-mandated sexual assault bureaucracy on col­
lege campuses—but chants of “Build the wall!” would 
have elicited gasps and stares. Before Cabranes spoke, 
guests mingled beside an open bar while waiters passed 
cosmopolitan trays of potstickers and falafel balls.  

The election has been a topic of consternation across 
Yale’s conservative intellectual circles. (The Federalist 
Party recently held a debate on the topic “Conserva­
tives have no party.”) Abhay Rangray, a sophomore and 
prospective Buckley Fellow in a suit and red tie whom 
I had met at the New Republicans’ debate watch party, 
said the whole spectacle was a sign that America’s 
democracy was devolving into European politics, with 
the Democratic Party edging towards Communism and 
the Republican Party towards nationalism. 

“I hope this is a temporary shift, and after the era of 
Trump we can return to conservatism,” Rangray said. 
“But it’s frightening because Trump’s success shows 
that old-school values are not shared by many Repub­
lican voters.”

Conservatives in the Buckley Program, like the New 
Republicans, tend to wax poetic about those old-school 
values. They’re the values of the Program’s namesake: 
the founder of the National Review, the twentieth cen­
tury’s leading American conservative intellectual, and 
a member of Yale’s class of 1950. Just before graduat­
ing from Yale, Buckley wrote God and Man at Yale, 
a critique of secularism and liberalism at the univer­
sity. Lauren Noble, who founded the program as a 
Yale senior in 2010 and is now the executive director, 
describes Buckley Conservatism as a principled oppo­
sition to the expansion of the state’s role in public life. 
She and senior Josh Altman, president of the Buckley 
Program, say that true conservatism also rejects rac­
ism. William F. Buckley, they note, helped to purge 
anti-Semitism from the party. (He also criticized the 
Civil Rights Movement and wrote in a National Review 
editorial that “the White community in the South is 
entitled to take such measures as are necessary to pre­
vail, politically and culturally, in areas where it does 
not predominate numerically.” Noble says that the 



**Title: The New Republicans**
**Author: [Author not specified]**
**Page number(s): 25-26**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
OCTOBER 2016
 25
Civil Rights Movement was not Buckley’s finest moment.)
Ultimately, 
many 
self-described 
Buckley Conservatives recognize that 
arguing amongst themselves about 
Trump’s rejection of conservatism is 
futile. 
“Everyone kept shouting, ‘Trump 
is not a conservative, Trump is not a 
conservative!’” Noble recalls of the 
primary season discourse among the 
conservative intelligentsia. “And half 
of America does not care that Trump 
is not a conservative.”

While standing near the cheese 
table before Cabranes’s remarks, I ran 
into Karl Notturno, a Buckley Fel­
low and Yale’s most famous Trump 
supporter. For over a year, he’s been 
posting Facebook statuses that support 
nearly every statement Trump makes 
and proudly wearing a TRUMP t-shirt 
around campus. He’s not involved 
with the Yale College Republicans, 
and he hasn’t officially worked for the 
Trump campaign, though he did a bit 
of phone-banking once, but if you ask 
almost anyone at Yale whether they 
know any Trump supporters in the stu­
dent body, Notturno’s name is often 
the first—and sometimes the only 
one—to come up. 

Notturno sipped a Pepsi with grena­
dine as he explained why he preferred 
Trumpism to pure conservatism. He wore a coat and 
tie, his blond hair rising in its trademark shock. A regis­
tered independent, Notturno says he’s gone through a 
political transformation since high school from liberal 
to libertarian to non-ideological. 
“Trump is far more practical than ideological,” Not­
turno said. Many conservatives at Yale, he thinks, get 
caught up in ideology and principle and fail to explain 
how those would translate to actual policy solutions. 
To cite a favorite phrase of his supporters, Trump tells 
it like it is. He doesn’t care what Bill Buckley would 
think.  

The New Republicans are betting that, moving for­
ward, they can restore conservative principles, and 
hopefully decorum, to what they believe is their rightful 
place at the forefront of the party. It’s a bet that could 
help them make electoral politics more appealing to 
conservatives at Yale, who don’t canvass and campaign 
with the gusto of liberals in the Yale College Demo­
crats. But it’s a bet that seems less tenable beyond the 
Ivory Tower.  
—
Three weeks into the semester, the Yale New Repub­
licans held their first event of the year, an introductory 
dinner at the Branford Dining Hall. Fitzgerald and 
Rasmussen set their bags down at a long table by the 
door, retrieved plates of pasta and hamburgers, and sat 
down to wait. 

Soon a freshman in a baseball cap and red backpack 
appeared beside the table. 
“Is this the Yale New Republicans?” he asked. Fitz­
gerald and Rasmussen nodded. “What does this group 
entail? Are there meetings? Is this a meeting?” 
“This is more like a social, get-to-know-you dinner,” 
Rasmussen replied. 

The freshman, Perry Falk of La Jolla, dropped his 
bags and went to get food. Soon two other freshmen, 
Canaan Harris of northeastern Mississippi and Snigdha 
Nandipati of San Diego, arrived. 

The Yale New Republicans from 
left to right: Grant Gabriel, Ben 
Rasmussen, & Michael Fitzgerald


--- Page 26 ---

 26
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
After some small talk, Rasmussen began his pitch: 
“Basically, what we plan on doing is campaigning for 
candidates who truly represent the best of the party, not 
just anyone who slaps an R next to their name.” It can 
be difficult to nail down what “the best of the party” 
really means for either major American party, but I got 
the sense from the New Republicans that they’re look­
ing for fiscal conservatism, more moderation on social 
issues, and, especially, serious efforts towards racial 
inclusivity. Few major Republican candidates hit all 
of these targets, but the New Republicans tend to like 
people like John Kasich and Marco Rubio. 

The freshmen nodded. 
“There’s also a tradition of Partisan Pong,” Rasmus­
sen continued, referring to the annual battle between 
the Yale College Republicans and the Yale College 
Democrats that takes place in the spring. “We’re going 
to try to join as a third party and win it.”

At this dining hall gathering of conservatives, the 
conversation turned not to the wisdom of the Austrian 
School of Economics or the social value of patriotism, 
but instead to the real reason everyone was there: Don­
ald Trump. They shook their heads over the infamous 
Cinco de Mayo taco bowl tweet, decried Trump’s 
refusal to firmly reject David Duke’s endorsement, 
and speculated whether this moment marks the end of 
the Republican Party or just rock bottom before it can 
make a resurgence. Fitzgerald also brought up his pes­
simism about the GOP’s ability to draw minority voters.
“It’s not because the Republican Party is racist,” Har­
ris responded. “It’s because almost all the racists are in 
the Republican Party. I wish the Party did more to say, 
‘That’s not us.’ If it isn’t us. I hope it’s not us.”

If the New Republicans’ rhetoric on Trump tends 
towards the apocalyptic, the College Republicans don’t 
seem much happier about him. Though the College 
Republican board members refused to comment for 
this story, they did invite me to their first meeting of 
the year, in a classroom in WLH one Monday evening 
in September. About ten people showed up, most of 
whom were freshmen. Reinwald and Cloutier taped up 
a flag, which kept falling off and needing to be re-taped, 
that said “College Republicans: The Best Party on 
Campus.” They passed out College Republican glasses 
and posters, which they encouraged attendees to hang 
up in their rooms to irritate their roommates. 

They broached the topic of Trump without saying 
his name, using a tone of grim resignation, and then 
moved on quickly. Calling the year “rough” for Repub­
licans, they emphasized the need to support local can­
didates. 

Reinwald also mentioned that their panlist has over 
one hundred people—a sign, she said, that Yale is 
home to more Republicans than the attendees might 
think based on the size of the meeting. Notturno told 
me the same thing about Trump voters while at the 
Buckley event: He says complete strangers sometimes 
stop him on the street to say they’ll be voting for Trump 
in November. And once you start looking beyond the 
circles of people who are actively involved in political 
groups on campus, it becomes easier to find students 
who aren’t merely grudgingly supporting Trump. 

Snigdha Nandipati, a freshman who came to the 
New Republicans dinner but said she doesn’t consider 
herself especially politically minded, supports Trump’s 
stances on immigration. Most of the outrage regard­
ing some of his comments is a result of media spin, 
she thinks, to which Trump falls victim because of his 
inexperience. The Washington Post’s release of the 
tape showing Trump talking about how he “grabbed 
[women] by the pussy” gave her some pause, but she 
was heartened by his apology during the debate two 
days later. “As a woman, I am not threatened by a cou­
ple of words that were said in a harmless casual setting 
over ten years ago,” she wrote in an email. She plans to 
vote for Trump in California. 

For several Trump supporters on campus, how­
ever, the release of the tape on October 7 was a game 
changer. Earlier that week I had interviewed a junior 
and a senior, both political science majors, who were 
happy to go on the record as Trump supporters. One 
of them, the junior, had supported Trump from the 
beginning of the Republican primary. He thought the 
candidate had good ideas about fiscal policy, was mov­
ing the party beyond “attempting to regulate morality” 
by opposing gay marriage and would support small 
business owners. Trump’s rhetoric “has really been 
uncalled for at times,” but he thought the media was 
taking Trump’s words out of context. A few days after 
the tape came out the junior emailed first to say that he 
no longer planned to vote for Trump, and then to insist 
that his name be removed “due to our political climate 
on campus.” The senior had conisdered Trump “the 
lesser of two evils”—until the tape came out and he 
decided that he would not vote for Trump and did not 
want his name associated with the candidate. 
“I am hoping the Republican Party will try and do 
something with this,” he wrote in an email. “I really 
don’t know if there is a fix for this type of problem.”


**Title: Yale Democrats Canvass in New Hampshire**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

With thirty-six days before the election, a group of 
Yale Democrats boarded a bus paid for by U.S. Con­
gresswoman Rosa DeLauro and rode to Keene, New 
Hampshire to canvass for Hillary Clinton. (The New 
Republicans are hoping to visit later this month to 
canvass for Kelly Ayotte with the Harvard Republican 

--- Page 27 ---

 27
Club.) Polls show Trump and Clinton neck and neck 
in this state of Rockwellian small towns and some of 
America’s highest opioid overdose death rates. 

The stretch of Route 101 heading into Keene from 
the Massachusetts border is dotted with TRUMP signs, 
their bright blue jumping out against a backdrop of 
autumnal leaves. The Clinton campaign occupies a 
storefront in Keene’s busy downtown. There was none 
of the handwringing or anxiety I heard among Yale’s 
conservatives, nor the ambivalence many liberals hold 
towards Clinton. Inside the campaign office, by design, 
you forgot the narrative of presidential election as 
national existential crisis. 

When the Dems knocked on voters’ doors, you 
remembered. Maxwell Ulin, a senior from Santa Mon­
ica, California and president of the Dems, canvassed 
voters on three streets in a suburban neighborhood of 
tidy two-story homes. 

His list included undecided voters and those who 
leaned Republican. At each house, Ulin, lanky in light 
blue jeans and a darker blue button down, knocked and 
then stood at attention, carefully holding his Hillary 
for America campaign materials below his waist so the 
voter wouldn’t see them and get irritated before even 
opening the door. At the first house, a man cracked 
open the door. 
“Hi—” Ulin began.
“Politics?” the man asked.
“…yes,” Ulin replied.
“Have a good day,” the man said.

At a house with a Trump sign, Ulin followed his 
orders and still knocked on the front door. The mid­
dle-aged, sweatshirt-clad man who answered said every­
one in the house would be voting for Trump. Ulin 
moved on, and I stayed to ask the man what he thought 
of the Yale New Republicans. He hadn’t heard of them 
before, and he wasn’t terribly interested.
“That’s their choice,” he said, before shutting the 
door and returning to the football game. 

When he finished his list, Ulin had encountered 
an approximately representative cross-section of the 
American electorate: There was a Trump supporter, a 
Clinton supporter, and a lot of people who were mostly 
just mad about the whole thing. Good enough. After 
three hours in New Hampshire, the Dems headed back 
to New Haven, ultimately spending twice as much time 
on the bus as they did on the ground. 

That same weekend, I met a man named Paul Neu­
gebauer in the parking lot of a church in West Haven. A 
retired firefighter with grey hair and a thick mustache, 
EVERYONE KEPT 
SHOUTING, “TRUMP IS 
NOT A CONSERVATIVE 
TRUMP IS NOT A 
CONSERVATIVE!” AND 
HALF OF AMERICA 
DOES NOT CARE THAT 
CONSERVATIVE.



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Isabelle Taft**
**Page number(s): 28**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
he was dropping off donations. We started talking about 
politics when I mentioned a class I was taking called 
Modern US Liberalism and Conservatism.

“I’m a right-wing guy,” he said. “I think the country’s 
being stolen.”

For decades, he was a member of the firefighter’s 
union in Bridgeport, and just before the 2000 election 
he attended a union conference where Hillary Clin­
ton gave a speech he found dishonest. He doesn’t like 
Trump’s arrogance, but he thinks Trump is a patriot. 
What bothers him most about Clinton isn’t her politics 
so much as what he sees as her elitism—people like 
her, he is sure, think people like him are stupid. 

Neugebauer’s anger is a problem not only for the 
Democratic Party, but also for the New Republicans, 
who in rejecting his nominee are implying that they, 
too, think he is stupid. This might be the major prob­
lem revealed by this election: a large subset of Ameri­
can voters believe that the political elites—a category 
into which Yale students are lumped even when they 
technically hold no power—are laughing at them. 

When I asked the New Republicans how they think the 
Republican Party can reject Trumpism without alien­
ating his millions of supporters, Rasmussen mentioned 
the danger of listening to the masses. Gabriel said he 
hopes Trump-style populism will lose favor after this 
election. They didn’t have a solution for bringing voters 
like Neugebauer into a reimagined Republican Party.

I asked Neugebauer what he thought of the New 
Republicans. He paused for a long moment. 

“I think your generation succumbs to a lot of social 
pressure,” he said. “I think these kids’ decisions were 
based more on how they appear to the public than what 
they actually believe.”

It was clear that talk of principles would not per­
suade Neugebauer to reconsider his support for 
Trump, because he didn’t even buy that those princi­
ples were authentically held. And none of this matters, 
really, because Neugebauer thinks that if Trump wins, 
President Obama will somehow create an excuse to 
remain in office. In other words, Neugebeauer no lon­
ger believes that American democracy actually exists.

The New Republicans have to believe that it does. 
They have to believe that Americans on the right, given 
the choice, will reject Trumpism and accept the wis­
dom of rebuilding a big-tent party staked firmly to con­
servative principles. But when you leave Yale, drive to 
Keene or across the West River to West Haven, in front 
of house after house, for miles of highway, you see the 
signs: TRUMP. TRUMP. TRUMP. And you wonder if 
the New Republicans, who think their whole party is at 
a crossroads, might be standing there alone.  
— Isabelle Taft is a senior in Silliman 
College. She is an editor-in-chief 
for The New Journal. 


**Title: Kookaburra Sits in the Old Gum Tree**
**Author: Rachel Yalowitz**
**Page number(s): 30**

p o e m
I was the shadow of the Kookaburra
hanging on my windowpane.
The glass superimposed
my toothless smile onto
the blue crescent of his wing.
When his eyes overlapped mine,
I revealed my teeth in laughter,
and he echoed me in a round.
I laughed louder; he cackled
and called me insane,
But I was the shadow
of the Kookaburra slain.
Kookaburra sits on a rusty nail
but where is the hammer,
where is the axe that turned the old gum tree
into the window frame.
Oh how life can be.
photograph by Elaine Wang



**Title: NEW HAVEN IS REFOCUSING ITS EFFORTS TO TACKLE HOMELESSNESS. IS THAT ENOUGH?**
**Author: eliza fawcett**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
NEW HAVEN IS REFOCUSING ITS EFFORTS TO TACKLE
 HOMELESSNESS.  IS  THAT  ENOUGH? 	
by eliza fawcett
the countdown
There’s a ritual every Sunday afternoon on the 
New Haven Green. For the past nine years, rain or 
shine, volunteers have set up a small altar behind Trin­
ity Church on the Green, complete with an altar cloth, 
communion chalice, and Bible. They unfold a dozen 
wooden chairs. A self-appointed drummer sits down, 
flips over a plastic container, begins playing a beat, 
and a congregation of homeless people arrives for the 
Chapel on the Green.

On a cold afternoon at the end of September, the 
oldest participants fill the rows of chairs, while the rest 
stand in a semicircle around the altar, bags of their pos­
sessions at their feet. One man lies down on the grass, 
hand on his stomach, looking up at the trees. The rec­
tor welcomes the crowd and begins reading a Bible pas­
sage, raising her voice over the sound of city buses rum­
bling down Chapel Street. The crowd listens quietly.

When the service ends, the crowd lines up for the 
most vital part of the event: a free Sunday lunch. Each 
week, a different local church sponsors the Chapel on 
the Green, providing their rector for the service and 
over 150 bagged lunches containing sandwiches and 
snacks. The line, nearly one hundred people long, 
consists almost entirely of young or middle-aged black 
men. Some leave immediately after receiving food, 
while others congregate in small groups across the 
Green to eat.

One of the attendees is Harold Fox, who has lived 
on the New Haven Green since the beginning of July. 
He sleeps on a bench, sitting upright, his backpack at 
his feet and worn suitcase by his side. When it rains, 
he sleeps under the awning of a bus stand on Chapel 
Street. But he never really sleeps. Even in the dead of 
night, the Green is alive with activity, and he dozes for 
an hour or two at most.

Nine weeks ago, Fox, an affable 47-year-old New 
Haven native with short hair and a thin beard, had an 
apartment and a steady job. Monday through Friday, 
he worked 16-hour shifts at the Yale-New Haven Hos­
pital sterilizing surgical instruments, a job he had held 
for nine years. But when he got into an argument with 
his supervisor, he was fired. At first, he held onto his 
apartment, though making rent soon became difficult. 
Then, he became convinced that someone was snoop­
ing around his home at night. Fearing for his safety, he 
gathered his remaining possessions and left.

Fox is now one of the roughly one hundred unshel­
tered homeless people who spend their nights in New 
Haven’s streets, parks, and abandoned buildings. That 
population seems to have surged in the city recently, 
casting a shadow over the progress that state and fed­
eral governments say they have made in the past two 
years. Since Fox only just lost his home, he is consid­
ered “transitionally homeless,” and thus is not the pri­
ority of federal and statewide efforts, which focus on 
housing the “chronically homeless,” people with dis­
abilities who have been homeless for over a year.

Jason Martinez manages the Coordinated Access 
Network (CAN), a federally-mandated shared data­
base of homeless people, for United Way of Greater 
New Haven, a social service provider. He said the New 
Haven area has been housing the chronically homeless 
with unprecedented efficiency. “Last year, it took two 
and a half years to house the chronically homeless,” he 
said. “Now, it takes 100 days.”

Before the CAN, homeless people had to inquire at 
each shelter for an available bed. Now, they can call 
2-1-1 and be entered into the system, which allows 
local service providers to connect them with available 
resources, case managers, and a place to sleep. The 
CAN helps reduce favoritism at shelters, and prioritizes 
support for the chronically homeless, whom the federal 
government deems the most vulnerable.

The state of Connecticut has been a national leader 
of homeless reduction initiatives. In January 2015, 
Connecticut joined Zero: 2016, a national campaign 
that is trying to meet the goals of the Obama Admin­
istration to end veteran’s homelessness by the end of 
2015 and chronic homelessness by the end of 2016. 
Zero: 2016 includes over 400 member organizations 
responsible for coordinating homeless services in city, 
county, metropolitan, or statewide areas. And to track 
its own progress, Zero: 2016 requires that each branch 
conduct an annual “Point-In-Time Count” (PIT), a 
laborious data-gathering method that requires sending 
volunteers into streets and shelters to count the num­
ber of homeless people they find on a single night.

In May, when the Connecticut Coalition to End 
Homelessness (CCEH) released its PIT data, the state­
wide results were encouraging. Across Connecticut, 
homelessness had dropped thirteen percent since 2007. 
Chronic homelessness had dropped twenty percent in 
only a year, on track with the targets of Zero: 2016. 
And last year, to much fanfare, the state declared the 
elimination of veteran’s homelessness; there is now a 
system in place to ensure that homeless veterans, once 
identified by service providers, secure housing within 
ninety days.

In New Haven, however, even as service providers 
pool their resources to fight homelessness, there is little 
agreement about the most basic fact: whether home­
lessness is rising or falling in the city. The New Haven 
PIT reported 625 homeless people, including 138 
children. That number was lower than it has been in 
the past, but it was a ten percent increase since 2015. 
The rate of chronic homeless showed no significant 
decrease within the past year. And most worrisome of 
all, there was a fifty-two percent increase in the city’s 
unsheltered homeless population from last year alone.

Yet despite the concerning data, service providers 
in New Haven are optimistic that they can eliminate 
chronic homelessness in the city by the end of this year 
— and eventually, homelessness altogether.

“I definitely think it’s possible to end homelessness,” 
said John Bradley, the Executive Director of Liberty 
Community Services, a New Haven-based homeless 
service provider. “We’re not talking about ending pov­
erty, we’re not talking about getting everyone educated. 
We’re just talking about 500 people sleeping on the 
street. It can be done.” As Bradley explained, eliminat­
ing chronic homelessness will make more resources 
available to the transitionally homeless, which would 
enable New Haven to eliminate homelessness entirely.

But the current emphasis on ending chronic home­
lessness means that transitionally homeless people like 
Harold are at risk of falling through the cracks. Since 
Fox has only been homeless for nine weeks, he is not 
even represented by the PIT. And because he has not 
yet entered a shelter or worked with a case manager, 
he is not part of the CAN. He lives on the Green in 
a limbo between the home he had not long ago and 
the shelter that, due to fears of bedbugs and a sense 
of principled independence, he hopes to avoid for as 
long as possible. He remains optimistic that soon he 
will find a job and an apartment. But the strain of the 
past few months shows in his weary, drooping eyes and 
the ragged edge of his voice.

Fox spends his days walking to soup kitchens across 
New Haven for breakfast, lunch, and dinner, and 
attends the Chapel on the Green on Sundays. He has 
a slow, lurching gait, a combination of the weight of 
his luggage and a limp he acquired after being hit by 
a car years ago. In the morning, he goes to the Pow­
erhouse Gym in North Haven so that he can exercise 
and shower. (He has enough money to keep his mem­
bership until the end of the year.) And each night, he 
returns to a bench on the Green to sleep under the 
glow of a streetlamp. 

“Eventually I’ll get myself out of here,” he says. 
—

For federal and local governments, ending homeless­
ness is as much a financial concern as it is a humani­
tarian one. The longer someone is homeless, the more 
they cycle through expensive public systems like hos­
pitals, jails, and emergency services. According to the 
Connecticut Coalition to End Homelessness (CCEH), 
eliminating homelessness could save up to seventy per­
cent of the cost of those public resources.

But in their fight to end homelessness, service pro­
viders in New Haven and across the country face formi­
dable challenges. Limited employment opportunities, 
stagnant wages, the opioid crisis, and the rising cost of 
living continue to push people into homelessness or 
prevent them from returning to permanent housing. 
Since the causes of homelessness are complex and per­
vasive, victories are ephemeral.

The homeless are a transient population. People 
move from place to place, arrive and leave shelters, 
and try to hold onto permanent housing. As a result, 
tracking rates of homelessness over time can be almost 
impossible, even with systems like the PIT. Commu­
nity leaders who volunteer in the PIT are quick to 
note its flaws. But the confusion sits deeper. Many city 
officials and homeless service providers say there is no 
clear consensus about whether homelessness is on the 
rise in New Haven, or if the disturbing data is caused 
by random variation.

Martha Okafor, the Community Services Admin­
istrator for New Haven — a branch of City Hall that 
oversees city community service providers — empha­
sized that the PIT count is inherently unreliable.

“It’s not a total count, because at that point in time, 
you count all the people you can reach. We don’t get to 
every place, and we only get the people we can see. We 
may not reach every person,” she said. Fox, for exam­
ple, had a job and an apartment when this year’s PIT 
was conducted.

Lisa Tepper Bates, the Executive Director of the 
CCEH, said the weather of the count night could sig­
nificantly influence the data. On bitterly cold nights, 
people may go to greater lengths to find shelter, result­
ing in a lower unsheltered population; last year’s PIT 
was conducted during a blizzard, she said. Warmer 
temperatures tend to correlate with higher unsheltered 
counts, as was the case this January. 

Bradley said that the opening of a warming shelter at 
Bethel AME Church on Goffe Street this past winter 
might also have increased this year’s high unsheltered 
count, since people there, who might not have been 
even counted before, were recorded as unsheltered. 
Some, like Tepper Bates, argue that this year’s uptick 
may not be representative of a larger trend. Another 
provider said that even with the PIT and her organiza­
tion’s own data,  “we just don’t know.”

But Bradley said that the potential increase does 
concern him, and that his organization has seen higher 
demand recently. Sunrise Café, a free breakfast pro­



**Title: The City's Invisible Population: New Haven's Struggle with Homelessness**
**Author: Eliza Fawcett**
**Page number(s): 34-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 34
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
gram Liberty Community Services runs out of a church 
in Wooster Square, has seen more participants between 
this summer and last winter. And for the first time ever, 
there are waitlists for its housing programs, though that 
is partly because calling 2-1-1 makes it easier for people 
to request access, Bradley explained.

Okafor, who manages the $1.1 million that the city 
allocates to homeless service providers in New Haven, 
was even more adamant. She explained that the data 
from the Homeless Management Information System, 
a federal system that centralizes data from local provid­
ers, indicates a homeless population in the city that far 
exceeds the PIT count.
“Oh yes, homelessness is on the rise,” she said.

Though faced with uncertainty and disagreement 
about the state of homelessness in the city, most service 
providers are cautiously optimistic that they can elim­
inate New Haven’s chronic homelessness by the end 
of this year. And there is a strong impetus to do so: as 
Tepper Bates argued, the chronically homeless are the 
people most likely to die if they are not housed. 

But Okafor pointed out that the intense focus on 
housing the chronically homeless diverts attention 
away from the largest population, the transitionally 
homeless, who may have only recently lost their homes 
and now are struggling to get by. 
“The conversation has centered on this very small 
population, and you lose sight of the larger population 
of people who are homeless, which is growing,” she 
said. “We’re not paying attention to them.” 

—
Although Fox has both a mental and physical disabil­
ity – schizoaffective disorder and a permanently dam­
aged leg – he is not considered chronically homeless 
because he has not yet been homeless for a year. He is 
not a priority for the federal or the city government. As 
Fox grapples with the reality of his new life, he is striv­
ing to inform himself about the landscape of resources 
available to him.

Like most homeless people in New Haven, Fox has 
the schedule of free meals around the city memorized; 
they determine the course of his day. Depending on 
the day of the week, he gets breakfast at Sunrise Café, 
Amistad in the Hill neighborhood, St. Paul’s Chapel, 
or the Community Soup Kitchen on Broadway. He 
gets lunch there too, or at the Saint Ann Soup Kitchen. 
For dinner, he heads to the Downtown Evening Soup 
Kitchen on Temple Street.

Fox lives on $190 per month from food stamps, 
bumming cigarettes off other people on the Green and 
accepting the occasional dollar from passersby. He is 
petitioning for unemployment benefits, but if that does 
not work out, he plans to get a job at Hummel Brothers 
Inc., a meatpacking company in Long Wharf, which 
he has heard is always hiring. 

But Fox is qualified for a much higher-skill job. In 
his thirties, living in a housing authority apartment in 
New Haven, he went back to school at Gateway Com­
munity College. He received two Associate in Science 
degrees in hotel and food service management, and a 
certificate in culinary arts. Now, though, his daily rou­
tine has become so much about survival that he has few 
long-term plans, beyond vague hopes that he will find a 
good job and a place to live soon.
“I don’t hang out with people,” he says. “That’s how 
I got started with all this mess in the first place, trusting 
people,” he says. He says that he likes the Chapel on 
the Green for its sense of community, but he is largely 
on his own.

The rector looks up from the passage to address the 
crowd on the Green. “Jesus is saying to us, you may be 
lost sometimes, you may be the one that was taken from 
the fold, and it may not make any sense to you, but I 
see you, I will seek you out.” She opens her arms wide. 
“Those times when we don’t feel like we’re with the 
others, when others have left us behind, let us rejoice, 
for God is seeking us out.”

After the rector’s prayers, people move through the 
crowd, shaking each other’s hands and exchanging 
peace. An old man tapping a large stick: “Peace be with 
you.” A skinny young man wearing a backwards base­
ball cap, leaning against his bike: “Peace be with you.” 
A middle-aged woman with shivering hands: “Peace be 
with you.” Fox, wearing a white undershirt and cargo 
shorts, toting his suitcase: “Peace be with you.” Then, 
the rector performs the communion rites and circu­
lates through the crowd, dipping a communion wafer 
in grape juice and placing it on each person’s tongue. 
The drummer begins playing a slow beat as the crowd 
sings a mumbled version of “Amazing Grace” and, with 
increasing rhythm, slides into “We Shall Overcome.”

Rowena Kemp, the Assistant Rector of Trinity On the 
Green, which organizes the program, has worked at the 
service since 2014. She says that the size of the group 
is smallest at the beginning of the month — when peo­
ple receive SNAP benefits — and swells significantly by 
the end. Recently, she has noticed that the crowd has 
been younger and bigger.  

Fox is sharing a bench with a young man who intro­
duces himself as “Lieutenant Kendrick the Third.” He 
has glasses, cropped blonde hair and jittery knees. In 
one breath, he says that he grew up in Florida, is active 
in the U.S. army, and suffers from PTSD. 

He then points to a gaunt, shirtless man with tattoos 
across his chest sitting on the asphalt next to the bench, 


--- Page 35 ---

OCTOBER 2016
 35
whom he claims is his brother. “His name is Ghost.”

As they eat their lunch, the three men talk about the 
dangers of the Green. “People are getting shot, selling 
all kinds of drugs,” says Kendrick. “And the gangs mark 
their territory—”
“Yeah, that’s the loose cig guys,” says Fox, nodding. 
“You gotta stay safe.”
“I’ve seen more homeless out here than anywhere in 
Connecticut,” says Kendrick.

But in New Haven, he says, you can get three meals 
a day, which is why he came here.

Ghost agrees, rocking back and forth. “Trenton 
[New Jersey] is a war zone,” he says. His wife is still 
there, he says, and he wants to bring her to New Haven 
as an escape. 


Ghost is not alone. Many nearby towns do not have 
emergency shelters, which forces homeless people to 
take buses or trains to get to a city like New Haven, 
where they have a better chance of finding a bed. For 
Bradley, the influx of outsiders is an indication of New 
Haven’s success at supporting the homeless. He noted 
that New Haven is the only city in Connecticut that 
dedicates general revenue funds (business and property 
taxes) to homeless services.  But increased demand 
from newcomers also strains New Haven’s ability to 
serve its own homeless population.

At least on the ground, it seems that demand for 
homeless services has risen recently in New Haven. 
The Downtown Evening Soup Kitchen now serves 30 
more people on average than it used to. The Chapel on 
the Green has also seen its numbers rise. Each Sunday, 
new faces emerge in the crowd. One volunteer, who 
has been serving the program for the past three years, 
said that when he scans the crowd, there are only ten or 
fifteen people who consistently appear; everyone else 
is different. One of the church sextons attributed that 
fluidity to the fact that other towns actively send their 
homeless people to New Haven because the city has 
more available resources.

Even as many homeless people arrive in New Haven 
seeking immediate support, the city government is 
trying to reallocate its resources so that fewer people 
become homeless in the first place. Martha Okafor 
said that before, all of the city’s money was going into 
emergency shelters. But last year, the Community Ser­
vices Administration, which she leads, redistributed 
city funds for homeless services based on a review con­
ducted by an independent panel. Two shelters, New 
Reach and Emergency Shelter Management Services, 
lost over $100,000 in city funds. That money was given 
to other agencies for preventative measures such as 
financial help with utility bills, childcare support, and 
food stamp assistance. The city’s funds were also used 
to open Bethel AME Church’s new warming center.
 “We’re moving away from just sheltering people and 
hoping for the best,” said Tepper Bates. “We’re trying to 
focus at the front door on preventing homelessness and 
helping people leave shelters as quickly as possible.”

Homeless service providers like Liberty Community 
Services and Columbus House have programs that can 
intervene at critical moments to pay a client’s rent, pre­
vent eviction, or help them stabilize their lives before 
they lose their homes. And rapid re-housing programs 
can quickly place people in permanent housing by 
providing initial financial assistance to cover a security 
deposit, the first month’s rent, or utility bills.

As important as preventative measures are, in the 
short term, many homeless people across New Haven 
continue to rely on emergency shelters to get off the 
streets at night. Columbus House maintains a shelter 
in the Hill with about 100 beds that, depending on the 
type of program someone is a part of, can be slept in 
for one night or up to six months. In the men’s and 
women’s wings of the shelter, there are clean, well-lit 
rooms with a dozen beds reserved for emergency stays 
of up to ninety days.

But at Emergency Shelter Management Services, a 
75-bed men’s emergency shelter on Grand Avenue in 
Wooster Square, the homeless must line up each day to 
secure a bed. One Friday afternoon, roughly thirty men 
were waiting outside the shelter’s entrance at 3:30 pm, 
Harold Fox. Photograph by Eliza Fawcett.


--- Page 36 ---

 36
half an hour before the shelter opened its doors, with 
more arriving every few minutes. Many of the men in 
line were quick to condemn the shelter for poor condi­
tions and a bedbug infestation.

Joshua Hoenig, a 29-year-old from a neighboring 
town, pulled up his shirt to show bed bug bites that 
ringed his stomach and covered his arms and legs. He 
said that he had just been to the hospital because of 
the bites. Doctors warned him that if he were bitten 
again, he would risk getting a blood infection. But he 
had nowhere else to go, so he was back in line.

Other men displayed bedbug bites across their bod­
ies and described bedbugs in mattresses and pillows, a 
ceiling fan that only blows dust, moldy showers, bath­
room tiles caked with grime, blankets that are never 
cleaned, unsecured storage bins, favoritism, complaints 
to the Health Department that went ignored. (Okafor 
said that there was a “moment” when the shelter had 
bed bugs, but health inspectors visited and certified 
it.) Even as the city attempts to fund preventative mea­
sures, some emergency shelters, like the one on Grand 
Avenue, seem unable to provide adequate support.

And, as Bradley pointed out, even preventative pro­
grams receive little federal funding; housing the chron­
ically homeless remains at the top of the nation’s pri­
orities.

**Title: I AM THE MAN YOU KILLED IN THE WAR, BACK TO HAUNT YOU FOREVER IN PANLIST FORM**
**Author: micah.osler@yale.edu**
**Page number(s): 37-38**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
OCTOBER 2016
 37
It begins with an email. It’s from mailman.yale.
edu, so it misses the spam filter and goes straight to 
your inbox. You get the notification during seminar, 
and you’re sitting right next to the professor, so for 
the next hour it sits there, unopened, unanswered. 
You hope that it might be your Lit professor getting 
back to you about her office hours, or maybe word 
on that internship you applied to last month. 
Out of class, you pull out your phone and open 
it. “Welcome Newbies!!” reads the subject. That’s 
funny, you think. You don’t think you signed up for 
anything. You open it. Your eyes glaze over—it’s 
just a generic welcome email from some unnamed 
organization, full of quasi-ironic green Comic Sans 
and GIFs of Ron Swanson throwing up or whatever. 
You delete the email and go on with your day.


I don’t send anything for the next two weeks. 
That’d be too easy. You’d catch on to the game. But 
soon enough, in that same seminar, at that same 
time, you get an email from the same address. You 
give it a glance. It’s worse than the last one: you 
don’t really read the content, but you can see that 
the Comic Sans is orange now and much larger, 
and all the GIFs are from that one episode of 
Pokémon that gave all those kids seizures. That’s in 
rather poor taste, you think. Maybe I’ll unsubscribe. 
So you do. You get two confirmation emails. 
Cool. You feel a rush of power. You feel as if you’ve 
won.


Nope. You’re wrong. Next week, same time, 
another email. Okay. You’re gonna read the god­
damn thing for once.
Hi all!
WHAT UP from the CROW’S NEST, all 
you smarmy scriveners! Hope everyone 
is having a stellar week!
Just a quick reminder: SlorpF.E.S.T. is 
COMING UP THIS WEDNESDAY AT 
2 A.M.!!!!1!!!1! Remember to get your 
tickets and background checks NOW, 
because they’re going fast!
It goes on like this for a few weeks.


You unsubscribe again, but you’re starting to 
get more than a little weirded out. You email the 
IT department. Hey, you ask. Is there any way to 
remove me from this panlist? They won’t take me off.


Sunday night. You’re asleep. You’ve got class in 
a few hours. You hear a buzz. In the matchstick 
moonlight filtering through the blinds, you groggily 
reach for your phone. 
“Newbies: OMG GET YOUR DRESS SLACKS 
NOW!” reads the subject line.


Without even thinking, you throw the phone 
across the room, and it shatters.


The next morning, you’re picking up the shards 
of glass, trying to figure out what the hell about 
this is making you so angry. Fuck, you think, it’s 
everything. Those rainbow fonts. The unrelent­
ing onslaught of pointless cutesiness. Those fuck­
ing GIFs from TV shows you’re pretty sure never 
existed and also from Friends. Truly, God need not 
create Hell, you think; man has made it for himself. 
On the way to the bathroom, you step on a piece 
of glass from your phone’s screen. It goes right 
through your foot.


You come back from the emergency room. 
You’ve already missed two classes today, and you’ve 
got three papers due in the next two weeks, so you 
know you’d better get to work.


In your inbox are six new emails. Five from the 
panlist; one from IT.
Dear sir, the last reads, Thank you for contacting 
Yale Information Technology services with your con­
cern. However, removing a student from a mailing 
list is up to the discretion of the student organization 
sending the emails. 


So you open one of the goddamn things. You scan 
for an email address to send a message to, someone 
to yell at. Zilch. It’s just you and mailman.yale.edu. 
Did you try unsubscribing from the panlist? the 
IT email asks. You nearly break your laptop, too.


The emails come every hour now. Not at regular 
intervals. Sometimes there’s a gap long enough to 
make you think that maybe the deluge has stopped. 
Then you relax—big fucking mistake.


Now the messages include your name. Some of 
the emails start with it. They’re just vague enough 
that they could conceivably be form emails. But 
just. 


Your friends are getting tired of you asking them 
about who’s behind this panlist. I don’t know, says 
Esmé. Maybe it’s a religious thing? Fucking Carl 
asks why you don’t just unsubscribe, so you punch 
him right in his pudgy face in the middle of your 
Politics of Knowledge in Latin America seminar.


Another month. Maybe two. You can barely tell 
any more. You can barely sleep these nights. The 
GIFs begin to follow you into your dreams. I’m 
creative and fun and quirky! they say. I epitomize 
millennial vapidity! Don’t you just think I’m the 
fucking greatest?!


Then came the first email you missed, but Jesus, 
was it a doozy. From your ER&M prof. We need 
to discuss your paper, it said, you found out later. 
You never made the connection, because you 
stopped checking your inbox. This happens a few 
times. You’d know your grades were dropping if you 
checked your emails.


You’re isolated. You don’t look at your texts any 
more after someone added you to this inscrutable 
group message called “THE SCROD SQUAD 
;););)”. Oh God, you think. It escaped the email 
server.


You miss class. You aren’t eating enough. One 
night, you claw the modem out of the wall in a fit 
of madness.


Sometimes, you try to sleep and all you can hear 
is the MIDI version of “Trap Queen” that they 
attached to one of the emails. More than once, you 
watch the sun rise on another weary day, your trem­
bling hands clutching the blanket, and all you can 
think is, Shit, did I miss SlorpF.E.S.T.?


When ExComm finally comes calling about your 
failing grades, they know well enough to visit in 
person.
—
Next September. You’re back home, living at 
your parents’ house. You’re stable. You’re doing 
fine. You work part-time as a barista. The medica­
tion is working. Everything is just A-okay. There are 
at least some days when you don’t vomit the second 
you see WordArt.


You’ve applied to a couple of new schools. 
Explained that you had a nervous breakdown but 
you’re doing much better. You should be hearing 
back about now, you think. So, you check your 
email.


The subject reads: “OMFFFFFFFFFG NEW­
BEEZZZZ WELCOME!!”


And as you lie there on the floor, convulsing 
in fits of agony, you will think, finally, of the mist 
along the hedges that day near the coast. You will 
think of the blood, the face you barely glanced at. 
The name you never cared about.


You will know now what you should have known 
long ago: that sometimes, the dead don’t die. 
That sometimes they merely transmigrate into a 
semi-nonsensical string of cat memes and garish 
slang and ceaseless invitations to stop by a pitch 
meeting. That the unsubscribe button is just a cruel 
trick, like a knife to the back or shopping period. 
That this is your life now. That you are condemned 
to my world of ceaseless badgering and sub-Upwor­
thy attempts at hip twentysomething humor for all 
eternity. That you will forever suffer my revenge.
— Micah Osler is a junior 
in Pierson College



**Title: THE NEW JOURNAL**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 40
THE  NEW  JOURNAL

