Publication date: FEB 2017
Volume: 49
Issue number: 4

**MASTHEAD:**
- editors-in-chief: elena saavedra buckley, isabelle taft
- managing editor: spencer bokat-lindell
- senior editors: sophie haigney, sarah holder, yi-ling liu, aaron mak, david rossler
- associate editors: ruby bilger, victorio cabrera, eliza fawcett, natalie yang
- copy editors: griffin brown, philippe chlenski, harry gray, rohan naik
- senior designer: ivy sanders schneider
- illustrator: bix archer
- photo editor: elinor hills
- web designer: mariah xu
- web developer: philippe chlenski
- members and directors: Emily Bazelon, Peter Cooper, Jonathan Dach, Kathrin Lassila, Eric Rutkow, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, Fred Strebeigh, Aliyya Swaby
- advisors: Neela Banerjee, Richard Bradley, Susan Braudy, Jay Carney, Andy Court, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Susan Dominus, David Greenberg, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Laura Pappano, Jennifer Pitts, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, David Slifka, John Swansburg, Anya Kamenetz, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- friends: Nicole Allan, Margaret Bauer, Mark Badger and Laura Heymann, Susan Braudy, Julia Calagiovanni, Elisha Cooper, Haley Cohen, Peter Cooper, Andy Court, The Elizabethan Club, David Freeman and Judith Gingold, Paul Haigney and Tracey Roberts, Bob Lamm, James Liberman, Alka Mansukhani, Benjamin Mueller, Sophia Nguyen, Valerie Nierenberg, Morris Panner, Jennifer Pitts, R. Anthony Reese, Eric Rutkow, Lainie Rutkow, Laura Saavedra and David Buckley, Anne-Marie Slaughter, Elizabeth Sledge, Caroline Smith, Elizabeth Steig, Aliyya Swaby, John Jeremiah Sullivan, Daphne and David Sydney, Kristian and Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Townsend Wilson, Daniel Yergin, William Yuen


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- CAN YALE BE A SANCTUARY? - Annie Rosenthal & Amelia Nierenberg
- THE THING ABOUT WINTER - Caroline Wray
- PRESTON AND THE PIPIT — Elena Saavedra Buckley
- GAME NIGHT IN THE NEW COUNTRY — Juliette Neil
- MAPPING A NEW HAVEN — Robert Scaramuccia
- MILK, SCONE, WATERMELON, WORDS — Mae Mattia
- YALE MEN IN THE CABINET — Rachel Calnek-Sugin, Chris Hays, Arya Sundaram
- RESISTANCE ON THE CORNER — Mark Rosenberg
- ON A TUESDAY — Griffin Brown
- WHINE AND DINE — Jacob Sweet


**Title: CAN YALE BE A SANCTUARY?**
**Author: Annie Rosenthal & Amelia Nierenberg**
**Page number(s): 30**

In the age of Trump, undocumented students wonder how far the university will go to protect them


**Title: THE THING ABOUT WINTER**
**Author: Caroline Wray**
**Page number(s): 21**

After twenty years in prison, 
can you rebuild a family?


**Title: PRESTON AND THE PIPIT**
**Author: Elena Saavedra Buckley**
**Page number(s): 4**

points of departure


**Title: GAME NIGHT IN THE NEW COUNTRY**
**Author: Juliette Neil**



**Title: MAPPING A NEW HAVEN**
**Author: Robert Scaramuccia**



**Title: MILK, SCONE, WATERMELON, WORDS**
**Author: Mae Mattia**
**Page number(s): 10**

The invention of a woman


**Title: YALE MEN IN THE CABINET**
**Author: Rachel Calnek-Sugin, Chris Hays, Arya Sundaram**
**Page number(s): 12**

Trump has chosen three Yale alumni to serve in his administration. 
Who were they on campus?


**Title: RESISTANCE ON THE CORNER**
**Author: Mark Rosenberg**
**Page number(s): 17**

For years, a few local women have stood by the road, calling for peace


**Title: ON A TUESDAY**
**Author: Griffin Brown**
**Page number(s): 28**

[poem]


**Title: WHINE AND DINE**
**Author: Jacob Sweet**
**Page number(s): 37**

[endnote]



**Title: Preston and the Pipit**
**Author: Elena Saavedra Buckley**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
On a late October morning in 2016, a bird landed in 
the model airplane field at Sherwood Island State Park 
near Westport. At that time of year, this particular bird 
expected warm weather and the banks of the Mississippi. 
Here, it stood less than half a mile away from the cold 
Atlantic Ocean. It hid in the grassiest patch of the park 
among dried, golden reeds, far away from any of its kin. It 
had never been more lost. 

The same morning, sixteen-year-old Preston Lust sat 
at one of the park’s picnic tables with his family, having 
lunch on his stepdad’s birthday. He lives ten minutes 
away from Sherwood Island. 

Preston is one of Connecticut’s most skilled young 
bird watchers. He started birding with his grandfather 
at age nine, and he’s seen and recorded over five hun­
dred species since, a number many adult birders hope 
to reach. He’s also too young to have a driver’s license, 
which means that he is an expert on his hometown’s 
natural habitat. Nearly half of his sightings have been 
in Connecticut. On eBird, the most popular website for 
birders to record their sightings, Preston submits check­
lists from his backyard almost every day detailing which 
birds he saw and how many. He’s a master of Sherwood 
Island, too—quietly, as if he were retrieving something 
familiar from a shelf, he knows in which trees he can 
find a saw-whet owl and which bushes are good for spot­
ting warblers. Some competitive birders “chase” the 
species they want to see, buying plane tickets to Arizona 
and Alaska. Preston prefers his neighborhood.  

Before the picnic at Sherwood that morning, he had 
already seen a rare red crossbill near his house. At the 
park, he and his brother Terry wandered over to the 
model airplane field after lunch to see if they could 
spot anything else. Here, the locals met the visitor. 

After following a group of eastern meadowlarks into 
the reeds, Preston saw the bird. It crouched near a tall 
wall of grass, small and beige and shaped like an easy-
to-miss songbird. The brothers first thought it could be 
an everyday American pipit. But, as they kept watching 
it, the bird didn’t bob its head as much as it should, and 
the umber feathers on its back glowed white around 
the edges. 

Preston started taking field notes, and he recorded a 
blurry cellphone video. Then, he sent a message to the 
local birders’ email listserv.
“I alerted them to the fact that we potentially had a 
Sprague’s pipit,” he told me. This bird, blown wildly off 
its migratory course by wind and confusion, had never 
been seen in Connecticut. 
“So, uh, this was a big deal.” 

—
“Best bird I saw all year.”
“Best bird I’ve seen in Connecticut.” 

At the January meeting of the Connecticut Young 
Birders Club (CYBC), club president Brendan Murtha 
and member Jory Teltser talked about the day Preston 
saw the Sprague’s pipit as they birded near the shore in 
Greenwich. Both boys rushed over to the park as soon 
as they heard, and Jory, one of Preston’s best friends 
at school, took photos and posted them online. “First 
state record found by my friend, and young birder, 
Preston Lust (only 15 years old)!” the caption read. 

The first people to see the bird were all under the age 
of eighteen. 

“A lot of the big-name Connecticut birders who 
keep really serious state lists dropped everything and 
got there as fast as they could,” Brendan said. The 
next morning, about thirty people showed up to get a 
glimpse, but the pipit had already left. 

Connecticut is one of the states with the most bird 
watchers per capita according to the Fish and Wildlife 
Service, though most of them are adults. The CYBC, 
which welcomed its tenth member during the January 
meeting, tries to be as involved as it can in the larger 
birding scene. But compared to, say, New York’s sev­
enty-member equivalent (whose president was recently 
profiled in the New York Times), it’s small. Plus, Con­
necticut itself isn’t exactly a birder’s paradise.
“It’s boring,” Jory told me, and Brendan agreed. It’s 
a small, developed state with no open ocean, and there 
aren’t many trees far away from a road. Jory remedies 
the problem by keeping as busy as he can—perhaps 
practicing for somewhere more exciting. He is men­
tored by the former president of the Connecticut 
Ornithological Association, and he once saw three 
hundred species in the state over the course of a year, 
putting him in the ultra-exclusive “300 Club.” Bren­
dan, who will graduate from high school this spring, 
said he “has to get out of Connecticut.” 

Preston Lust feels a little differently. He wants to live 
in Connecticut for the rest of his life, as does his brother. 
When I asked Jory about what kind of birder Preston 
is, he said that, despite staying outside the circle of 
competitive Connecticut birders and not being much 
of a “chaser,” he has a knack for encountering the birds 
that more goal-hungry watchers might overlook.


Recently, Preston put a high-powered microphone 
on the roof of his house that connects to his computer. 
Overnight, as birds fly over his house, the microphone 
records their nocturnal flight calls, which he listens to 
the next morning with sonogram software. This helps 
him recognize birds he can’t see. 
“You’ll be birding with him, and he’ll say that he 
heard something fly over,” Jory said. “And it’s like, not 
only did I not hear that, how did you identify that?” 

Preston, Jory, Brendan, and another CYBC club 
member are planning on entering a birding competi­
tion in New Jersey called the World Series, under the 
name “CYBC Darth Waders.” The last time Brendan 
competed, his car got stuck in a sinkhole, but he’s more 
confident about his chances this year. Preston, he said, 
is their “secret weapon.”

Preston and Terry walk along the paths on Sherwood 
Island a month after the Sprague’s pipit sighting. The 
brothers are silent as they bird, both dressed in black 
sweaters and black pants, hugging their binoculars to 
their chests. Every once in a while, they softly call out 
each other’s names, point at a branch, and stare. 
When they get to the shore around dusk, Preston 
points at a gull standing near the water. Unlike the 
other birds on the beach, its back looks like smooth, 
grey slate. The lesser black-backed gull, as he calls it, 
is the only one of its kind on Sherwood Island. It has 
been coming back to this beach every year since he 
started birding. 

Preston walks off the path and towards the sand. 
“Do you see something?” Terry asks. 
“No. I just felt like going on the beach.” 

— Elena Saavedra Buckley is a junior in 
Silliman College. She is an editor-in-chief 
of The New Journal.



**Title: Game Night in the New Country**
**Author: Juliette Neil**
**Page number(s): 6**

It’s Thursday night, and that means Bingo at the Annex 
Club on the eastern side of New Haven’s harbor. The 
club was founded by Italian immigrants as a civic center 
for their community in 1938, but nowadays Bingo Night 
draws an ethnically diverse crowd of devotees. A woman in 
a blue hat with Bingomania written in rhinestone across 
the front and a man with a walker wait in a long line for 
concessions. In the large room where Bingo players wait 
at their tables for the game to begin, gold wallpaper and 
large mirrors fill the walls, and chandeliers dangle from 
the ceiling. A Bingo board lights up to announce lucky 
numbers, and the tables are covered with bottles of Dabbo 
Ink Dazzle, the high-tech version of Bingo chips. The 
Annex Club upgraded about ten years ago.


**Title: Letter from the Editors**
**Author: Elena Saavedra Buckley and Isabelle Taft**
**Page number(s): 4**

Dear readers, 

The magazine you hold is the most political 
collection of stories released by this year’s 
editorial board. As executive orders brought 
over a thousand people to demonstrate in 
front of Sterling Library and led protesters 
to block a nearby highway exit, our writers 
reported on Yale’s undocumented students, 
peace protesters who have stood on the 
same New Haven block every Sunday for 
years, a resource map for Elm City refugees, 
and the Yale alumni in Trump’s cabinet. Since 
its founding fifty years ago, The New Journal 
has documented how our classmates and 
neighbors participate in and respond to 
history as it unfolds. At this moment, many 
members of our community are resisting 
and grappling with a painful turn in American 
politics, and we are proud to tell their stories.

But many of the stories we told this year did 
not have their sights on the White House. 
We wrote about a freshman on the Yale 
football team who left campus in the dead 
of night to return home to Montana; a dramatic 
bear sighting near downtown; a Catholic theme 
park in Waterbury; and, in this issue, a teenager 
from Westport who is among the state’s most 
accomplished bird watchers. These stories 
were not about national politics. But by seri-
ously engaging with the portion of the world 
reachable by a bus from the New Haven Green, 
they make a political statement: There is value 
in learning about where you live and what 
concerns your neighbors.   

We leave the editorial board of The New 
Journal with the conviction that journalism can 
hold power accountable, support the means 
of social change, and honor those who make it 
happen. We also hope that this magazine has 
and will continue to make you feel present in 
this city—and inspire you to fight for the ability 
to feel at home.
Sincerely,
Elena Saavedra Buckley and Isabelle Taft, 
outgoing editors-in-chief 



**Title: The Annex Club**
**Author: Juliette Neil**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
FEBRUARY 2017
 7
tieth centuries sometimes faced discrimination and 
prejudice; today their descendants include New Hav­
en’s longest-serving mayor and current United States 
Representative Rosa DeLauro. As long as the Annex 
Club has been open, the community it serves has been 
transforming. But its regulars, who built railroads and 
coached Little League, still come to the Club.


The Club’s numbers, as well as its influence, have 
dwindled. “We donated an awful lot of our time and 
our expenses to the city of New Haven,” Balchek tells 
me. “Lots of charity work, fundraisers, offered the place 
up if people needed a place to host things, say. It’s very 
difficult for us to do that today. In today’s society, it’s 
not cheap to open up the doors.” Beyond the economic 
burden, the tight-knit community of families has also 
changed. “I miss the old days,” Tirotello says. “We used 
to have Saturday night dinners here. We don’t do that 
anymore. Because nobody wants to come!” 


To survive, the Annex Club has evolved. Instead of 
hosting wedding parties for its members, the Club hosts 
motorcycle shows and the Connecticut Gay Men’s 
Choir. They still offer scholarships for Club members’ 
children, and they still host community events, but 
Bingo Night, bookings, and Astorino’s careful work as 
treasurer keep the Club afloat. 


On a typical Thursday, any melancholy nostalgia is 
drowned out by the cheerful chaos of the Bingo crowd. 
Astorino teases Tirotello, once again, about his age. 
Balchek says happy birthday to a woman who has just 
won fourteen dollars. Conversations about children 
and spouses float throughout the hall. People still come 
every Thursday for Bingo, and many come more often, 
for meals or drinks in the lounge. Astorino tells me that 
they are booked “pretty much every Saturday for the 
next two years.”
— Juliette Neil is a freshman 
in Timothy Dwight College.

Behind the concession stand counter, Robert 
“Bobby” Astorino—the current treasurer and former 
president of the Annex Club—sells Bingo cards. He 
stands in front of flowers and a “Family, Laugh, Love” 
sign and informs me, politely but firmly, that he does 
not have time to talk. He directs me to a smaller table 
where a man sells lottery numbers, collecting the 
money in small tin brownie pans. Joe Tirotello, who is 
88, has worked Bingo Night for thirty-five years. He has 
also served as a coach for the Annex Club-sponsored 
Little League team and volunteers on Tuesday after­
noons when retirement home residents visit the club. 
Tonight, he knows almost everyone by name. 


—
The Annex neighborhood—the club’s namesake—
welcomed a constant stream of Italian immigrants 
beginning in the 1890s. The New Haven immigrants 
created “mutual aid societies” such as La Fratellanza 
(“The Brotherhood”) and La Marineria (“The Navy”), to 
support Italians as they built new lives in United States. 
At the end of the Great Depression, twenty-eight 
Italian-American men began a Young Men’s Associa­
tion known as the Annex Club. Its goals were slightly 
different from those of the original Italian-American 
societies. A pamphlet from the club’s fiftieth anniver­
sary states the original objectives, one of which was: 
“to engage in community activities which will advance 
the interests of this organization and its membership 
in the community.” Put more simply, the men of the 
neighborhood wanted a place where, after working or 
playing a game of football, they could convene, relax, 
and remind themselves of what Tirotello, a life-long 
Club member and the son of an original member, still 
refers to as the “Old Country.” 


The club is no longer exclusively Italian-American 
nor exclusively male, though a large portion of its par­
ticipants are either original members or descendants 
of them. Al Balchek, another Bingo Night volunteer 
and former president of the club, proudly tells me, “We 
have Irish, we have Polish, we have Jewish, African 
American, Puerto Rican.” 


Balchek himself is Polish-Italian, and as we walk 
around the club, Italian names still dominate: Astorino, 
Castiglione, Apuzzo, Berrelli, Ginetti. They line the 
wall in the members-only lounge, feature heavily on 
the donors list, and belong to many of the Bingo play­
ers. Though their heritage is a source of pride for these 
people, most don’t dwell on it. The Club was a place 
for dances and Fourth of July fireworks, as well as for 
recollections of Italy. In building supportive communi­
ties to help their members succeed, the mutual aid soci­
eties and the Annex Club also promoted assimilation. 
Italian immigrants in the nineteenth and early twen-
AS LONG AS THE ANNEX 
CLUB HAS BEEN OPEN, THE 
COMMUNITY IT SERVES HAS 
BEEN TRANSFORMING. 


**Title: Mapping a New Haven Point of Departure**
**Author: Robert Scaramuccia**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

 8
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
MAPPING A NEW HAVEN
P O I N T  O F  D E PA R T U R E
A Yale senior builds an app to help refugees find resources
Robert Scaramuccia
Hundreds of refugees scrambled into the United 
States in early February after a federal judge halted Pres­
ident Donald Trump’s ban. While the Trump adminis­
tration decides whether to appeal to the Supreme Court 
or rewrite the executive order altogether, people fleeing 
violence and persecution will continue trickling into the 
United States, seeking to build new lives from scratch.


But what will the more than two hundred and fifty 
thousand refugees already living here tell these new­
comers about American life? Where can they pray, buy 
familiar food, or obtain the proper job certification? 
What is here to help recent arrivals feel welcome?


According to Yale College senior Elena Hodges, not 
enough. And the resources that do exist are hard to find.


Hodges, a Political Science major, started working 
with an Iraqi refugee family, the Al-Mashhadanis, in 
Fair Haven in late 2015 through the Yale Refugee Proj­
ect. She quickly became close with the family’s seven 
children and saw firsthand the obstacles they faced. 
The children, who range in age from one-and-a-half to 
twenty years old, felt socially isolated. They struggled 
in school, finding it difficult to learn English along 
with algebra and American history. The family didn’t 
have a car, meaning the nearest Islamic center was for­
ty-five minutes away instead of fifteen.  


“That relationship just kind of got me thinking about 
why it is that people fall through the cracks in terms of 
accessing social services,” said Hodges. “New Haven has 
hundreds and hundreds of NGOs. But there are still a 
ton of people who aren’t getting access to those services.”


Part of the problem is that Integrated Refugee and 
Immigrant Services (IRIS), the nonprofit that reset­
tled the family Hodges knows as well as hundreds of 
others, has only six months to integrate refugees into 
new communities. After that, federal funding dries up 
quickly. IRIS receives sixty percent of its revenue in the 
form of federal grants, meaning it must adhere to fed­
eral guidelines that prioritize short-term resettlement 
over long-term support. IRIS executive director Chris 
George described the government’s traditional philos­
ophy as hasty.


“Just get them off to a good start, then pivot and wel­
come another family that’s coming tomorrow night,” 
he said. 


Hodges considered the problems facing the Al-Mash­
hadani family and others like them more urgent than 
illustration ivy sanders schneider


--- Page 9 ---

 9
anything she could address by writing a research paper. 
So for her Human Rights Scholars capstone project, 
she decided to develop something that the Al-Mashha­
danis could use to find services. 


She came up with the Resource Access Mapping 
Project (RAMP), a tool that refugees and other ser­
vice-seekers will eventually be able to access on their 
smartphones. Inspired by similar projects in Berlin, 
Vancouver, and New Orleans, RAMP marks the loca­
tion of every service provider relevant to refugees in 
New Haven, from soup kitchens and Goodwill stores 
to domestic violence shelters and mental health clin­
ics. It tells users whether a provider’s location is wheel­
chair accessible. It lists the documents users should 
bring with them in order to receive services. It comes 
in English, Spanish, and Arabic, offers a community 
rating system, and integrates with Google Maps so 
users can add a food pantry to their daily bus route. It 
even maintains a FAQ page on topics like community 
farming, as well as information about family-friendly 
recreational activities.


At least, Hodges hopes it will do all this eventually.


“As of now, this is all kind of conjecture and theory,” 
she said. “It’s not real yet.”


RAMP is still in its spreadsheet phase, sprawling 
across twenty-three columns and 447 rows. Hodges 
and a team of volunteers, including Yale undergradu­
ates and members of the Law and Medical schools, are 
working to make it a reality by the end of the semester 
using Kricket, an app aiming to create a crowdsourced, 
worldwide map of resources for refugees. 


Although the map’s first iteration will only come 
in English and will only display provider locations 
rather than integrating with other apps, it still reflects 
a semester’s worth of research. Hodges and her team 
combed through New Haven’s prisoner reentry guides, 
consulted with experts at Yale Medical School, and 
called provider after provider to confirm their hours, 
services, and accessibility. 


“My whole approach has been mostly to reach out to 
people who do the work in the community already, and 
to have it be made in communication with the people 
it’s targeted at,” she said. 


Hodges admits her project is limited: It can’t reverse 
restrictive immigration policies, for example. But she 
thinks RAMP has the potential to change the way peo­
ple think about refugee resettlement in addition to con­
necting refugees to the resources they need.


A guiding principle of RAMP is that, beyond having 
food in the pantry and clothes for the family, refugees 
deserve to live fulfilling lives. “‘Do I have employment 
that excites me? Am I leading a life that I actually care 
about, rather than just getting through another day?’…
That’s not something that there’s really support for,” 
Hodges said. She hopes making refugees more familiar 
with available resources will allow them to focus on 
other aspects of their lives. 


RAMP is welcome news to Joseph, a Congolese law­
yer and refugee who arrived in Connecticut last Octo­
ber. (He did not want his last name to be published.) 
After five years of interviews and security checks, all 
while bouncing between Nairobi, Kenya’s capital, and 
Kakuma, its second-largest refugee camp, he was able 
to make a permanent home in the U.S. 


Halfway through his six months with IRIS, Joseph 
has the basics down. IRIS shuttled him, his wife, and 
his three children to their new home on their first day 
in New Haven. His kids are in school, and he just got 
a job at a packaging supply store. He feels safe—even 
welcomed. He’s amazed that strangers on the bus say 
“bless you” when he sneezes. 


Yet his mental map of the city has holes. He wants 
to find cassava, a staple food in the Democratic Repub­
lic of Congo that’s hard to come by here. His children 
want to visit a zoo. With his IRIS-provided smartphone, 
he’s ready to use RAMP whenever it becomes available.


“It’s a good idea, a good idea,” he said. “Yes, yes, yes, 
yes. Because, you know, you have children, sometimes 
[it’s] not only good to bring them just to [the] library. 
The children like to know, to see animals, to see the 
mountains. It’s very, very good.” 
— Robert Scaramuccia is a sophomore 
in Branford College.



**Title: MILK, SCONE, WATERMELON, WORDS**
**Author: Mae Mattia**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
“With my eyes I blindly seek the breast: I want thick milk. 
No one taught me to want. But I already want. I’m lying 
with my eyes open looking at the ceiling. Inside is the dark­
ness. An I that pulses already forms. There are sunflowers. 
There is tall wheat. I is.” 
- Clarice Lispector, Água Viva
“Only afterwards does fear come, the pacification of fear, 
the denial of fear––in a word, civilization. Meanwhile, 
atop the naked table, the screaming slice of red water­
melon. I am grateful to my eyes that are still so frightened.” 
- Clarice Lispector, A Breath of Life 
“My mom loved breastfeeding,” Hayley said, 
cheeks aglow, on the sidewalk, beside the chapel, 
beside the cars in legion at the stoplight. Hayley 
is a friend of mine from college, rather magical, 
whose cheeks are ample and exquisitely rouged. Often it 
seems to me, in the sunset, that her face is the facsimile of 
an unbitten peach, lately fallen, in the grass. I want to talk 
to Hayley about peaches, but I stay quiet, because if I told 
her about her face, the fantasy would fade: it is ridiculous 
to tell a woman she looks like a peach. I was surprised, 
besides, to hear her mother loved breastfeeding, and 
raised my eyebrows. “Because it kept her thin,” she said. 
“She could eat five donuts a day and still have bruises on 
her collarbone, because she was so fragile.” So it wasn’t, 
it seems, that she loved breastfeeding Hayley in partic­
ular. Or perhaps she did, but all these years later, what 
occurred to her, in memoriam, was a felicitous side-effect 
of motherhood, that it stole the blood from your body, so 
to speak, and turned it into milk. Milk is the first taste we 
know on earth; our first taste is the taste of our mothers; 
before we steal the fruit from trees, before we press them 
into wine; before we cup our hands beside a stream; it 
precedes language, precedes our first word. But Hayley is 
now twenty-three: her mother has forgotten; it has been 
long since her daughter was a child. Now there is only 
the body, the aging body, the fear of the end of the body. 
Now her mother, when she speaks of food, speaks only in 
terms of fear. 

When Hayley speaks of milk, she is curious, almost 
enchanted, but this enchantment is a twin to fear—not 
of death, or age, but of the forfeiture of her feminin­
ity. “All of my friends had skim milk,” she said, “but 
my mom always bought whole milk, because she was 
obsessed with these studies that were coming out at the 
time.” The studies posited that skim milk induced pre­
mature breast development. “In third grade,” she went 
on, “I remember Jordan Tour had boobs and I didn’t 
and I really thought it was because her family fed her 
regular milk. I was so bitter about it. When my mom 
gave me money to buy milk at the store, I would buy 
skim milk and then play dumb, so I could have a gal­
lon of it on hand.” Hayley refused to submit; she was 
a frightened trickster, and she desired breasts. “This is 
bundled into my general anxieties about fertility,” she 
said. She wanted then, and still wants, to be a woman, 


wants to know what it means to be a woman, and fears 
that if one day she is bereft of milk, if she cannot be a 
mother— what, then, of womanhood? If she is to be 
barren, what are left but lipstick and aprons? Or if she 
is to dispense with those symbols, what then? Only per­
dition, perhaps—or perhaps, somewhere in that hereaf­
ter, she will grasp, at last, a fact.
Milk is a fact. But even so, she said, “I don’t 
understand how it works, it seems really mag­
ical to me.” Nor does she want to know. What 
she does know is that a peach is known by its 
nectar. If it is not sweet, it is only a reflec­
tion in the mirror. She has performed, has attempted to 
perform this or that face of femininity. Hayley became 
a postulant before the oven: she baked cookies and 
cakes. This was in high school, when she first asked the 
question, How does a woman speak? Because cakes are 
silent, cookies are silent, and what they offer in place of 
words are sweet nothings. Hayley wanted to be a sweet 
nothing: eyes declined, ears occluded by chestnut 
ringlets. She wanted to say: I love you. But a woman 
was circumscribed by a trellis of icing. A woman spoke 
without words, without gestures; a woman reduced her 
body to the shape of a scone; and when it was so small 
that it could be eaten in two bites, she offered it with 
cupped hands; she begged for alms, but not to be given, 
not to be given: she begged that they might take. Her 
body was a burden, too clumsy; her nearness to deli­
cacy only clarified the distance. So she baked; it was 
how a woman performed her quiet. Because a woman 
lacked the bones of a fish, the miniature splinters; she 
did not stick in the throat. Hayley wanted to vanish into 
her own revelation. 

But when she came to college, her scones said noth­
ing—not even quiet. A scone was made only for ques­
tions of tea; it could not answer questions of death. 
When placed beside death, a scone was absurd. She 
discarded her apron; if she was to be sweet, it would 
have to be a matter of words. But she did not want to 
be sweet, unless sweetness was the means by which she 
beguiled you, or beguiled, perhaps, herself. It was diffi­
cult to delineate desire. “I don’t want to wear make-up 
just to please a guy,” she said, “but I don’t want to not 
wear make-up because I’m afraid of what that will sig­
nal to the world.” Either way, hers would no longer be 
an innocent offering. “I like skirts, I like high heels, 
and I don’t think there’s a problem with that.” When 
she walked into the kitchen, it was not because she 
needed sugar.  Nor because she needed to escape into 
a diorama.  Nor because she wanted the purity of a defi­
nition.  Now she fell into the kitchen like a slant of light.  
Now, whether she wore lipstick on the sidewalk—
whether the public world, in the matter of desire, was a 
hall of mirrors—the kitchen was a respite, a bare-footed 
bakery. She no longer made her scones as an offering of 
love, or at least, not to you or me. Because every scone 
she baked arrived on her own plate. The crumbs left on 
her table are evidence of an intimacy. 

Last week, the heat was relentless; 
summer in New Haven is unforgiving, 
so I stopped into Hayley’s apartment to 
say hello and rest my feet. I wanted to lend 
her a book of essays, Little Labors by Rivka 
Galchen, and show her my new lipstick. But 
when I arrived at her kitchen, I did not pass beyond the 
doorframe: I did not want to interrupt. I had arrived at 
a scene, not so much of a crime, as of beauty—though 
there was, within this beauty, a quality of trespass. Hayley 
was slicing watermelon. She dropped each slice with an 
air of distracted elegance into an alabaster bowl, hum­
ming, meanwhile, some soft tune. Then, noticing me, 
she turned around. “Oh hi,” she said, “welcome.” In her 
other hand was a bright kitchen knife, larger than what is 
so-called strictly necessary. She held it with her wrist limp, 
as a child might hold a lollipop—but she was far more 
languorous than a child, and just as daring. Which is to 
say, she held it as if violence belonged to her no less than 
elegance. If a woman could wield a spatula, so she could 
wield a blade. But when she saw my eyes, she laughed. 
“You are just the sort of person who would find this 
romantic,” she said. “I thought about that while you were 
climbing the stairs.” 

Even carelessness is a performance. Hers was a per­
formance for both of us, on a summer day, in the mid­
dle of New Haven. And in the middle of New Haven, 
she had managed, at last, to surpass her innocence—or 
to arrive at a more ancient innocence. She was, for the 
length of a glance, as old as the Stone Age. But a glance 
is all we’re given. 

In a week or two, Hayley will move to Los Angeles, 
to begin, as they say, a new life. But for now, in the 
summer, even if she does not know what a woman is, 
she knows what a woman can do. A woman can split 
apart her sweetness. And discover, inside the skin of a 
watermelon, a new word. 
[August 5, 2016]
— Mae Mattia is a junior 
in Branford College.


**Title: YALE MEN IN THE CABINET**
**Author: Rachel Calnek-Sugin, Chris Hays, and Arya Sundaram**
**Page number(s): 11-12**

On Capitol Hill, three Yale alumni are preparing for 
new jobs. Steven Mnuchin ’85 will serve as Secretary 
of the Treasury. Pending confirmation by the Senate, 
Ben Carson ’73, and Wilbur Ross ’59 will join him in 
President Donald Trump’s cabinet. Yale alums have 
long inhabited the upper echelons of the U.S. gov­
ernment, but Trump’s Ivy League picks run counter 
to his populist campaign and rejection of intellectual 
elitism. These two Wall Street bankers and the neuro­
surgeon were neither Yale Political Union firebrands 
like John Kerry nor the scions of political families 
like George W. Bush. They inhabited different spaces 
at Yale—from the Yale Daily News business team to 
senior-level psychology seminars to the Yale Literary 
Magazine—but none seemed to be preparing for a life 
of civic engagement. How did they spend their forma­
tive years at Yale before embarking on the non-politi­
cal careers that still delivered them to the West Wing? 
“A Yale man,” the New York Times Magazine reported 
during George W. Bush’s presidency, “used to be some­
body who looked the part.”
Donald Trump ran for the presidency on an anti-es­
tablishment platform that attacked the intellectual 
elite, big banks, and the corporate-political “swamp.” 
But in his first weeks in office, he stocked his cabinet 
with members of those same groups. Steven Mnuchin 



**Title: Steve Mnuchin ’85**
**Author: Rachel Calnek-Sugin**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
FEBRUARY 2017
 13
’85 is Trump’s pick for Secretary of the Treasury, but he 
ticks all the boxes that would qualify him as an enemy of 
Trump supporters. He is, quite literally, a Yale man, who 
looks—and has always looked—the part. 
Mnuchin started his career at Goldman Sachs, 
where his father was one of its top partners. Eventually, 
he moved to Hollywood, where he invested in films, 
launched OneWest Bank, and made a name for him­
self as a “foreclosure king.” CNN reported that OneW­
est became infamous for its “widow foreclosures,” the 
practice of booting elderly and vulnerable residents 
from their homes through onerous loans and techni­
calities, according to CNN.  In one instance, Mnuchin 
was said to have foreclosed on a home over an unpaid 
bill of twenty-seven cents.

Like other Trump cabinet nominees, Mnuchin has 
no government experience. His main qualification for 
Treasury Secretary seems to be that he’s dealt with 
money before. He is the chief executive of the hedge 
fund Dune Capital, which, the New York Times reports, 
was named for the dunes outside his vacation house in 
the Hamptons.  

According to his classmates in Hopper College (then 
called Calhoun College) and other members of the 
Yale Daily News board, Mnuchin hasn’t changed much 
since his Yale days.  When asked whether they were 
surprised that Mnuchin was one of Trump’s cabinet 
picks, many gave the same answer.
A pause. Then, “No.”

After graduating from New York City’s Riverdale 
Country Day School in 1981, Mnuchin followed 
his father to Yale, where classmates recall he drove a 
Porsche and lived off-campus in the luxe Taft Hotel 
on the corner of College and Chapel streets.  Kather­
ine Randolph ’85, a classmate in Hopper, recalls that 
he mostly hung out with other wealthy kids from New 
York private schools.  His two off-campus roommates, 
Eddie Lampert ’84 and Benjamin Bram ’84 both went 
into finance and worked with Mnuchin for some time 
at Goldman Sachs. (Reached by email in early January, 
Mnuchin said that he would do an interview with The 
New Journal after his confirmation. In the days after 
he was confirmed by the Senate, Mnuchin did not 
return requests for comment, nor did he respond to an 
emailed list of questions.)

Mnuchin’s main extracurricular was the Yale Daily 
News. He didn’t write, but instead headed the business 
side—an almost entirely separate part of the newspa­
per, according to his colleagues on the editorial board. 
Bennett Voyles ’85, who described himself as a “fellow 
Newsie,” remembers the publishing team as “a sleek 
crew in Lacoste shirts who would glide in and out of 
the News building.”   

As publisher during his junior year, Mnuchin was 
embroiled in conflict with the News’ editorial board. 
After his nomination for Secretary of the Treasury, Dan 
Froomkin ’85, a former News editor tweeted: “I knew 
Steve Mnuchin back when his idea of fun was starv­
ing the Yale Daily News of resources to pad his resume 
as publisher.” Froomkin vividly recalls arguments 
between Mnuchin and the editorial staff, in which 
Mnuchin insisted on fewer pages of content to leave a 
financial surplus. Anndee Hochman ’84, the editor-in-
chief of the News in 1984, remembers a year of clashes 
as the editorial team pushed to maximize content and 
the publishing team tried to maximize profit. Voyles 
and Froomkin attempted a coup against Mnuchin, but 
Mnuchin and the News’ lawyer reportedly quashed it 
before it could get anywhere.

Mnuchin’s colleagues on the News largely found 
him difficult to work with—Hochman describes him 
as “self-confident to the point of arrogant, a smooth 
talker and a lousy listener”—and many of his peers 
in Hopper remember him as equally unpleasant. 
One of his female classmates, who wanted to remain 
anonymous because she is afraid of being “sent to the 
Trump gulag,” said she “always felt like taking a cold 
shower when in his environs.” Mark Danziger ’85 is 
quoted in Businessweek as saying he “put the douche 
in fiduciary.”

But not everybody felt negatively about Mnuchin. 
Hopper classmate Serena Williams ’85 says she remem­
bers Mnuchin as “always nice and smiling.” And he was 
tapped for Yale’s most illustrious secret society, Skull 
and Bones. Mnuchin entered the society in his senior 
year, along with his roommate Eddie Lampert, whose 
hedge fund he later worked for, and James Boasberg, 
the federal judge who ruled this September that con­
struction could proceed on the Dakota Access Pipeline. 
Mnuchin’s Senate confirmation was rocky; he failed 
to disclose one hundred million dollars in assets on 
the Senate Finance Committee documents, claim­
ing that he had “misunderstood” the questionnaire. 
But by February 13—the Monday after he attended 
Steve Schwarzman’s seventieth birthday party in Palm 
Beach, where he and fellow guests Wilbur Ross, Ivanka 
Trump, and Jared Kushner enjoyed acrobatic perfor­
mances, two camels, and a rendition of “Happy Birth­
day” by Gwen Stefani, according to Bloomberg—the 
Senate voted 53-47 to confirm him. In December, he’d 
already updated his job title on the alumni database to 
“Secretary of the Treasury of the U.S.,” making things 
already Yale-official.
— Rachel Calnek-Sugin is a sophomre
in Silliman College.


**Title: BEN CARSON**
**Author: Chris Hays**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

 14
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
meals with Carson, but he felt rebuffed. “After a cou­
ple early attempts to engage him, I spent the next four 
years smiling and saying ‘hi,’” Taylor said.

Dr. Edward Wassman ’73, a Davenport classmate 
who studied for chemistry and physics classes with Car­
son, remembered that Carson would sit near the front 
of lectures and often have conversations with peers or 
professors after class. Dr. Don Marshall ’73, a psychol­
ogy major in Branford, also remembers Carson readily 
participating in his classes. “I had a distinct impression 
of him saying things that he thought were really bril­
liant, that other people didn’t think were very good,” 
he said.

According to Walter Miller ’73, Carson’s fresh­
man-year roommate, Carson was disciplined and 
meticulously neat. He cleaved to a conservative sense 
of propriety; when Miller began sleeping with his girl­
friend on the couch, he sensed Carson’s disapproval. 
By senior year, Miller recognized Carson as one of 
the “nicest guys I knew,” but added, “You probably 
wouldn’t want to hang out with him, because you prob­
ably wouldn’t have that much fun.”

Though he identified as a Democrat, Carson was 
reticent about politics as a student at Yale, a fact made 
more pronounced by the swirl of political activism 
that defined the campus in the early nineteen-seven­
ties. During his freshman spring, tens of thousands of 
protesters flocked to New Haven for the high-profile 
trial of Bobby Seale, a founder of the Black Panther 
Party. Tensions continued as Yale adjusted to coeduca­
tion, beginning with Carson’s class, and Vietnam War 
protests swept across college campuses. Several of Car­
son’s classmates in Davenport, including former Bal­
timore mayor Kurt Schmoke ’71 and Senator Sherrod 
Brown ’74, Democrat of Ohio, were influential activ­
ists remembered for leading the student body through 
the protests. 

Henry Chauncey ’57, a former Secretary of the Uni­
versity who ran crisis management during the Bobby 
Seale trial, was surprised to learn that Carson was at 
Yale during the period. “I thought I knew every black 
student at Yale,” he said, referencing the heavy involve­
ment of African American students in the protests. Car­
son avoided participation. He was “a bit dismayed by 
the disruption of academics,” according to Wassman. 
Carson, speaking to The New Journal, acknowledged 
that he “really didn’t engage in a lot of political con­
versation.” Unlike Chauncey, he recalls a student body 
in which most people were frustrated by the turmoil. 
“I think everybody was a little bit dismayed during the 
Bobby Seale trial,” he said about the academic disrup­
tions, “so I don’t think that would be anything out of 
the ordinary.”

“Do you believe that everybody should own a home?” 
Senator Dean Heller of Nevada asked Ben Carson ’73 at 
his Senate confirmation hearing for Secretary of Housing 
and Urban Development (HUD) in January.
“I believe that everyone should have the opportu­
nity to own a home,” responded Carson, raising his 
eyebrows and pausing after “opportunity.” During the 
hearing, he spoke at length about encouraging individ­
ual responsibility. He recounted, as he frequently does, 
how he grew up in an impoverished Detroit neighbor­
hood and rose to the top of his high school class before 
attending Yale.

Carson has taken a circuitous route into politics. 
A prominent neurosurgeon, he entered the political 
limelight with a controversial speech criticizing Pres­
ident Obama’s policies at the 2013 National Prayer 
Breakfast. Despite his lack of experience in politics or 
housing, he ran for president in 2016 and was recently 
selected by President Trump to lead HUD. 

But Carson, who now advocates conservative “com­
mon sense” government and denounces political cor­
rectness, was not always so outspoken. At Yale, he was a 
reclusive, devout pre-med student; few of his classmates 
would have guessed that he was on the path to become 
such a recognizable and divisive political figure.

Carson’s peers in Davenport College remember him 
as intensely focused on academics and not eager to 
develop friendships. In an era of counter-culture and 
protest, he stood out for his close-cropped hair, pocket 
protector, and high-water pants. According to his peers, 
he was an outlier. “No one knew him particularly well,” 
explained Ronald Taylor ’73, a classmate in Davenport. 
Early in their freshman year, Taylor sat down to a few 


 15
Carson expressed his beliefs more vocally in his 
church community, away from campus politics. Lola 
Nathan, who attended services with Carson at the Mt. 
Zion Seventh-day Adventist Church in Hamden, had 
him over for dinner regularly during his undergradu­
ate years. Over their meals, she would argue with him 
about everything from politics to current events. Inter­
viewed at Mt. Zion in January, she tersely remarked 
that she disagrees with him just as much now as she 
did then. 

On Carson’s prospects at HUD, his former friends 
and classmates are split along ideological lines. Some 
are hopeful about his foray into U.S. government. 
Terence Diggory ’73, a Davenport classmate who had 
a friendly relationship with Carson, said, “He has 
demonstrated that he is smart, and I’m sure right now 
he is doing a lot of homework.”

But many others are dismayed. Walter Miller seemed 
disappointed about Carson’s rise to conservative star­
dom. “He would be the last guy that you would think 
would be a politician.”
—Chris Hays is a freshman 
in Hopper College.


**Title: WILBUR ROSS**
**Author:  [Author not specified]**
**Page number(s): 15**

Wilbur Ross ’59 has been dubbed the “king of bank­
ruptcy” by Fortune magazine. Over the past fifteen years, 
he has made billions of dollars by capitalizing on failing 
American steel, coal, and textile companies. He made 
his way into President Trump’s inner circle in the nine­
teen-nineties by rescuing him from the Trump Taj Mahal 
debacle, when Trump struggled to make debt payments 
for the Taj Mahal casino just a year after purchasing it. 
Today, he’s the nominee for the United States Secretary 
of Commerce. 

Sixty years ago, though, he was “Wilbo.” In the 
era of mandatory coat and tie, he moseyed about the 
Jonathan Edwards College courtyard in a baggy crew­
neck sweater. According to Kerry Wood ’59 who lived 
upstairs from him for three years, Ross gained the nick­
name “Stinky” because of his heavy aftershave. “If he 
had too much cologne, it was because he wasn’t show­
ering adequately,” said Dan Harris ’59, another mem­
ber of Ross’s JE class. “Wilbur, to be generous, at the 
time was a slob,” he added. “A nice guy, but a slob.” In 
an interview with The New Journal, Ross claimed that 
the nickname “Stinky” belonged not to him but rather 
his freshman year roommate. 

In the late nineteen-fifties, Yale’s culture pressured 
students to obey a conservative prep school style of 
dress. Fred Oser ’58 describes the campus in a sin­
gle sentence: “I was completely overwhelmed by the 
atmosphere of conformity.” Oser remembers walking 
back from a Sunday church service in Battell Chapel 
dressed in his best blue suit and blue suede shoes, mor­
tified that his clothes didn’t fit in. The very next day, he 
bought a tweed jacket from J. Press. 

Amidst a traditional, homogenous culture, Ross 
defied categorization. He was a legacy prep school kid 
on scholarship; a member of the Air Force ROTC and 
an English major; a frat boy who made the Dean’s List.

His fraternity, Chi Phi, attracted atypical members. 
Chi Phi was far less exclusive than Fence Club, Delta 
Kappa Epsilon, or any of the other houses where “you 
just had to be someone,” according to Oser. It had fewer 
prep school boys but more high-achieving students 
than other fraternities. But by the time Ross graduated, 
Chi Phi’s numbers were dwindling, and the fraternity 
permanently dissolved in 1961. 

Ross was part of the Yale literary scene, working on 
two starkly different publications. He was a member of 
the Yale Literary Magazine, which, at the time, the Yale 
Daily News described as dying, debt-ridden, and full of 
mediocre writers. Ross also contributed to Ivy Maga­
zine, a student-run, inter-school magazine that catered 
to the posh elite of the Ivy League.

At a time when post-college options seemed limited 
to banking, insurance, and brokerage, Ross yearned 
to be a writer. “People who were literarily inclined 
weren’t looked down on, they were just thought to 
be a little bit odd,” said Chauncey, though he did not 
know Ross personally. But Ross’s literary aspirations 
were short-lived. He dropped out of the legendary Yale 



**Title: WILBUR ROSS'S PATH TO THE CABINET**
**Author: Arya Sundaram**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 16
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
English course “Daily Themes.” Ross said this deci­
sion “saved me from the life of poverty,” a point he also 
made in an interview with Charlie Rose in 2010. After 
graduation, he packed his bags for Harvard Business 
School and eventually ascended to the upper echelons 
of Wall Street, where he became famous for flipping 
failing businesses. He said, “the only poetry I write now 
is occasionally for a friend’s birthday party. I’ll do a lit­
tle poem or something like that.”

Ross’s transformation into a financial titan and mem­
ber of Trump’s political circle, however, was not totally 
unexpected to some of his peers. A classmate who 
wished to remain anonymous said that during Ross’s 
time at Yale, “he was very clearly paying attention to 
where he could have most upward mobility.” Ross was 
the president of his fraternity, a platoon sergeant in the 
Air Force ROTC, and a member of an honors organi­
zation called the Yale Key. He sought out groups—and 
leadership positions in those groups—that allowed him 
to develop his personal standing and social network. 
“I believe he’s very aware of who he is and the reputa­
tional franchise he is trying to develop,” the classmate 
added. Ross argued there was nothing unique about his 
driven approach to college. “In those days, the work­
ing assumption of everybody that I knew in my home­
town was that you could do better than your family had 
done, and I think by and large that people did,” he said. 

In 2012, Ross was widely reported to be the “Grand 
Swipe,” or president, of Kappa Beta Phi, the secret fra­
ternity of Wall Street leaders whose members include 
former New York City mayor Michael Bloomberg and 
the former heads of Lehman Brothers and Bear Stea­
rns. Soon, he will likely enter one of the nation’s most 
prestigious societies: the United States Cabinet.

As a legacy student on scholarship who joined the 
establishment worlds of Yale and Wall Street, Ross 
could be cast as someone who understands the divide 
between disparate socioeconomic groups. Like Trump 
himself, the billionaire claims he will represent the 
interests of working-class Americans. “Middle class 
and lower middle class America has not really bene­
fited by the last ten to fifteen years of economic activity 
and they’re sick and tired of it and they want some­
thing different,” Ross said in an interview with CNBC 
in June. It remains to be seen whether the would-be 
writer turned corporate titan will be capable of provid­
ing something different.
—Arya Sundaram is a freshman 
in Davenport College.



**Title: RESISTANCE ON THE CORNER**
**Author: Mark Rosenberg**
**Page number(s): 17-18**

FEBRUARY 2017
 17
RESISTANCE ON THE CORNER
For years, a few local women have stood by the road, calling for peace.
Mark Rosenberg
At 11:30 a.m. on the Sunday after President Donald 
Trump’s Inauguration, Susan Klein dons a floppy maroon 
hat with a pink “Women for Peace” button planted proudly 
on the front, straps on a red fanny pack stuffed with fli­
ers, and steps out the door. It’s a half-hour walk from her 
home near Westville to the triangular island at the corner 
of Broadway and Park Street in New Haven, across from 
Christ Church and Maison Mathis. By noon, she’s in 
position, holding up a silver Styrofoam sign emblazoned 
with two words in bold black letters: RESIST WAR.

Klein, who spent twenty years working in the Yale 
University library system before retiring in 2011, grew 
up in New Haven where her parents protested the Viet­
nam War on the Green. She has stationed herself on 
this corner most weekends for the better part of two 
decades in a ritual called the New Haven Sunday Vigil. 
“We’re US citizens,” she told me when we first met. 
“We have to speak out against terrible, criminal injus­
tice by our government.”

The protest tradition evolved out of a vigil against 
the Gulf War that met on the corner of Church and 
Chapel Streets every Thursday, starting in 1990. In 
1993, the group broadened its scope and renamed itself 
Peace and Justice News and Views. Shortly thereafter, 
it morphed again into the Connecticut Coalition for 
Peace and Justice, a larger group of activists from nearly 
a dozen local organizations. In 1999, when Klein first 
joined, the vigil moved to its current spot, and the ten


 18
members protested the NATO bombings of Kosovo. 
For the past six years, she has held vigil on the corner 
from noon to one almost every weekend.

Just after noon, Paula Panzarella and Monica 
McGovern arrive. Both have been protesting for over a 
decade. Panzarella has held several jobs over the years, 
including director of a soup kitchen, volunteer provid­
ing aid to the homeless, and garment factory worker. 
For her, activism has provided continuity. She grew up 
in New Haven and became engaged with local organiz­
ing in 1991, volunteering with the Progressive Action 
Roundtable, a forum for New Haven-area activist 
groups, for eight years before joining the vigil. McGov­
ern, the group’s most right-leaning member, joined the 
group in 2005 and volunteered with Ron Paul’s 2008 
presidential campaign.

Panzarella and McGovern take over the sign, stand­
ing solemnly under the gray sky, while Klein patrols in 
front, tightly gripping a stack of fliers. She’s soft-spo­
ken; sunglasses shield her kind eyes. Politely but per­
sistently, she plies passersby with pamphlets.

The women distribute eighty fliers each Sunday, typ­
ically produced and printed by Klein or a member of 
Jewish Voice for Peace. This week’s flier, entitled “The 
Biggest Meddler,” details seven egregious examples of 
political interference by the United States. The women 
oppose all military conflict, shifting their message as 
the government shifts its interventions.

The day before, hundreds of thousands of women 
had descended on Washington, DC for the Women’s 
March, chanting and singing as they filled the National 
Mall. The women of the New Haven Vigil occupy 
their triangle quietly, holding their banner and waving 
back when a car honks. They don’t sing or shout or 
beat a drum. The last Sunday of each month, members 
of the New Haven branch of Jewish Voice for Peace 
stand with them. Otherwise, it’s just Klein, Panzarella, 
McGovern, and Joan Cavanagh, who is on her way 
back from Washington today. 

“It’s very meaningful to stand here and bear witness 
and try to catch people’s attention quietly,” Klein says. 
McGovern doesn’t think their method reaches as many 
people as a larger protest might, but says, “there’s no 
room for me in big demonstrations because they’re 
dominated by left-wingers.”

Panzarella agrees with McGovern’s dislike of large 
protests, but disagrees with her rationale. “At a big­
ger demonstration, it’s hard to engage,” she says. “We 
give people the chance to ask the questions they have. 
Sometimes people approach us with animosity, but this 
allows us to exchange ideas.”

Some people race past, heads down. Some begrudg­
ingly take a flier and stuff it into a pocket. But others 
walk away reading the flier curiously, and a few strike 
up conversation.

The women have spread their message in varying 
styles over the decades. In 1973, to protest the govern­
ment’s bombings in Cambodia, Cavanagh climbed a 
water tower on a freeway outside Baltimore and landed 
in jail for ten days. At one protest on the Broadway tri­
angle, after sharing that story, she asks Klein the name 
of a tall building a couple blocks away. 
“That’s the Hall of Graduate Studies,” Klein replies. 
“Are you thinking of going up there, too?”
Cavanagh grins. “No, just looking.”

The others are less audacious in their methods. 
Panzarella speaks slowly and ponderously. McGovern 
uses short, clipped sentences. Klein often just listens, 
encouraging passersby to voice their concerns with 
occasional words of assent.

Today, a woman in a black parka walks up. “I’m 
Israeli and I’m absolutely terrified,” she says out of the 
blue. “Netanyahu and Trump are the same person.” 
Klein nods in agreement. They spend a few minutes 
decrying settlements on the West Bank.

After she leaves, Klein lets out a sigh of relief. “Some­
times you get these Orthodox Jews who say, ‘You don’t 
want Israel to exist,’” she explains. “I’m glad there was 
no argument. I’m not a confrontational person.”

Today’s vigil is the first since the inauguration of 
Donald Trump, but the women on Park and Broadway 
haven’t altered their message.

“The election didn’t change my sense of hope,” 
Cavanagh told me a week earlier. “It reinforced every­
thing we’ve been standing for the last twenty years, 
thirty years, forty years, fifty years.”

“I’m not sure if I’ve thought of things pre-election 
and post-election as being different,” Klein says today.

Peace advocacy is a never-ending endeavor. Since 
1999, the women have handed out around sixty thou­
sand fliers. But there are still soldiers in Iraq and 
Afghanistan. Under Obama, extra-judicial drone kill­
ings became commonplace, and the United States sent 
troops to Syria, Libya, and Somalia. Even in left-lean­
ALL THEY TRY TO DO IS GET 
PEOPLE TO LOOK UP FROM 
THEIR PHONES, STOP FOR A 
SECOND, AND THINK.



**Title: A Vigil in New Haven**
**Author: Mark Rosenberg**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
FEBRUARY 2017
 19
ing New Haven, reactions to criticisms of these policies 
are not all positive. Sometimes people wave in support. 
Sometimes they give them the finger. Regardless, the 
women’s aims remain lofty, their dedication unfailing. 
“My goal would be to live in a country with a govern­
ment in which everyone is respected,” Klein said. “I 
expect to be vigiling for the rest of my life.”
At around 12:45 p.m., a man drives by on a yellow 
motorcycle, blasting Wiz Khalifa and honking enthusi­
astically. The driver of a Mercedes gives them a thumbs 
up. Klein is bemused.
“This has been among the most positive responses 
we’ve ever had. I wonder if the inauguration and the 
demonstrations have something to do with it.” She 
pauses. “Maybe I could allow a little optimism to filter 
into my consciousness.”
A few minutes before the women head home, a man 
wearing wire-rimmed glasses and a green cap shuffles 
up to the corner. Klein hands him a flier, and he begins 
speaking animatedly. “I’ve got a couple Vietnam but­
tons,” he said. “Lot of my friends didn’t make it back. 
Sometimes I get nightmares. It really scares the hell 
out of me. I’ve seen people killing women and chil­
dren, and I still remember all of that.” His voice rises. 
“It makes me sick!”
“And it’s still going on,” Klein says.
They chat for a few more minutes. “Talking to you 
made me feel better,” the man says. He and Klein 
shake hands.
McGovern and Panzarella leave at one. Klein folds 
up the sign. “The vigil is not only important for the 
people who pass by,” she says, stuffing the last few fliers 
into her fanny pack. “It’s important for us, too. On the 
weeks I can’t come, the rest of the week doesn’t feel 
right.” The women recognize they aren’t agents of seis­
mic change. All they try to do is get people to look up 
from their phones, stop for a second, and think.
Klein walks back down Broadway, heading home. 
The island is empty. Pedestrians stroll along. Cars 
speed by. War goes on.
— Mark Rosenberg is a freshman 
in Pierson College.


**Title:  Untitled**
**Author: Caroline Wray**
**Page number(s): 21**

“The thing about winter is, when you’re not in it, you 
have a perception of how cold it is. But then, when you 
actually get in the cold, and you’re freezing your butt off, 
you don’t even remember what that perception was. For a 
second, you’re like, ‘take me back.’” 
At 5:30 a.m. on February 24, 2014, Scott Lewis took 
his first step as a civilian in more than twenty years. 
Ejected from a bus on the side of the road next to the 
New Haven Correctional Center on Whalley Avenue, 
he had only one set of clothes, which he was wearing, 
and a box of legal papers. He’d spent the majority of his 
time in prison toiling to get out: teaching himself the 
law, representing himself for nineteen years, methodi­
cally plodding though appeal after rejected appeal in 
order to shed his inmate number (137682) and escape 
from the 120-year sentence he’d been handed down for 
a crime he never committed.
When Scott took that first breath outside after the 
bus doors puffed open and he stepped onto the side­
walk, the air rushed hard at him. Most of his fellow citi­
zens were asleep, including his sister Marlo, scheduled 
to pick him up in three hours. He had no cell phone, 
no access to a phone booth—or the coins needed to 
activate it—and no coat. 
The bus chugged away. The sun would rise in an 
hour. His arms, carrying the box of legal papers, started 
to tremble.
by Caroline Wray



**Title: Homecoming**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 22
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
held evidence of his innocence and thereby violated his 
constitutional rights. (According to the National Reg­
istry of Exonerations, 160 wrongfully convicted people 
were exonerated in both 2015 and 2016.) When Scott 
stepped off the bus into the February air, he was a free 
but not-yet-exonerated man with only the clothes on his 
back and the GPS device strapped to his ankle.

When someone is wrongfully imprisoned, all their 
resources go towards one thing: getting out. But reentry 
into society is not the same as reintegration. What hap­
pens after getting out? Besides arduous logistics (Do 
you have a bed to sleep in? How do you get an ID?), 
navigating the emotional saga of release is a colossal 
task. The Federal Bureau of Prisons has published a 
twenty-two-page handbook for released prisoners. It 
concludes with a “Rebuilding Your Relationships” sec­
tion, which advises prisoners to “begin by appreciating 
the small things,” and bear in mind that loved ones 
have aged in their absence. But what is that supposed 
to look like? Where on earth do you start? 

Scott’s first goal as a returning civilian was to avoid 
freezing to death on the sidewalk. He followed a line 
of people into the jail, saw a counselor he knew, and 
managed to borrow his phone. His call woke his sister 
Marlo, who rushed out of bed to pick him up. “Turn 
left,” her GPS said as they pulled out of the parking 
lot. Scott was floored. While he knew technology 
had changed since the nineteen-nineties, he hadn’t 
accounted for his sister’s talking car.

Even during those first hours—his reunion with 
Marlo, his mother, and then his children—Scott tried 
to figure out how he was going to move out of Marlo’s 
house. Without independence, he still felt imprisoned.
“Everyone was happy, everyone was celebrating, but 
I was isolated in my own mind, strategizing. What’s my 
next move? How am I going to get up in the morning? 
What am I going to wear?” he remembered.

Those first sixty days were excruciating. Even with 
a loving family and a place to stay, Scott felt trapped, 
reliant on others for food, cash, and transportation. He 
had one pair of shoes (work boots), and his only clothes 
smelled like the cobwebbed basement where they’d 
been stored during his twenty-year absence. He and 
his two twenty-something sons, Scottie Jr. and Tam­
aje, spent weeks driving around in the same little car, 
applying for the same jobs. Eventually, Scottie Jr. was 
hired, rendering Scott immobile once again.

“I really understood how people could come out of 
prison, have family support, and still break down and 
go back to what they were doing before,” Scott said. 
That’s exactly what happened to his son Tamaje, who 
had been released from prison a week before his father, 
and ended up back in jail for a few months in 2016. 

Twenty-four years earlier, on October 11, 1990, for­
mer New Haven alderman Ricardo Turner and his 
lover were murdered in bed following a cocaine-related 
heist. At the time, neighborhood dealers Scott Lewis 
and Stefon Morant owed ten thousand dollars to a local 
kingpin whose business depended on his partnership 
with a dirty cop, Detective Vincent Raucci. By 1995, 
Raucci had gathered several witness statements impli­
cating Scott and Stefon in the double murder, and the 
men were sentenced to 120 and seventy years, respec­
tively. An FBI investigation into the corrupt cop soon 
revealed that he’d blackmailed the witnesses into falsely 
placing them at the scene of the crime. The complete 
FBI file is dated January 24, 1997—less than two years 
after the men were incarcerated—but it would take 
eighteen years before both men were released for the 
crimes they didn’t commit.


Some of the events that occurred during that time: 
Scott and Stefon turned twenty-five, then thirty, then 
forty-five. Scott’s younger daughter Jesilinett learned to 
write her name in cursive, dropped out of high school, 
and became a certified medical assistant. Stefon’s twin 
sons, Christian and Julian, learned how to toss a base­
ball back and forth, then how to drive. Scott’s young­
est son, Tamaje, started kindergarten and eventually 
served a three-year drug possession sentence after being 
arrested and tried as an adult at the age of fifteen. Scott 
and Stefon became grandparents. Stefon’s father died, 
then his brother. His elementary school girlfriend wrote 
him a letter, and they got married. Scott taught himself 
to write appeals, which seven state judges rejected.

In 2009, then-Yale Law School professor Brett Dignam 
learned about the case through a judge with whom Scott 
had filed for writ of habeas corpus. Aided by a small 
team of her law students, she began working to secure 
his release. Finally, in 2014, a federal judge granted 
Scott habeas corpus, ruling that Connecticut had with­


---

**Title: Love**
**Page number(s): 23-24**

FEBRUARY 2017
 23
Love
Stefon Morant, Scott’s co-defendant, was released 
from prison in August 2015, a year and a half after Scott, 
after serving for over two decades. Since his release, 
he’s bounced around from seasonal work to unemploy­
ment to a brief stint as a warehouse dockworker, which 
he had to quit because of his knees. When his job 
sweeping floors for the city came to a close in October, 
he felt nervous about being unemployed again.

Unlike Scott, who was officially exonerated in August, 
Stefon still has the murder felony on his record. (Rather 
than getting off on an early release, his sentence was cut 
to the shortest possible time, which he’d already served, 
minus a couple of years for good behavior. Also unlike 
Scott, Stefon had not aggressively represented himself 
or caught the attention of the Yale Law School clinic.) 
Still, he’s in good spirits. A large man who often smiles 
so big that his eyes disappear, Stefon says it’s tough to 
stay depressed for long, thanks largely to the Christian 
faith he discovered in prison. Remembering his home­
coming, he gazes at the ceiling.
“The first day was joy, of course,” he said. “It couldn’t 
have been any other feeling. It was an answered prayer 
from God.”

When the judge ruled that he’d get out, the court­
room was full of Morants—his mother, siblings, and 
cousins—who erupted in celebratory tears. His wife 
Kimberly said that, aside from the births of her three 
children, it was the happiest day of her life. At the 
moment of his release, she met him on the corner out­
side the New Haven Correctional Center, where Scott 
stood the previous winter, and asked where he wanted 
to go.

“All I wanted was to be able to put on a belt,” remem­
bers Stefon. “Think about it: twenty-one years, not 
being able to wear a belt with your pants.”

So straight to Marshalls they went, where they bought 
a belt, a pair of pants, and some slippers. Eighty min­
utes of freedom, and one goal already accomplished. 
His wife helped mitigate the struggles he faced com­
ing home. Kimberly had a house, a steady income, and 
a life with space carved out for him. It was easy to slip 
into. While Scott was worried about how long he’d 
have to live at his sister’s, Stefon moved right into his 
wife’s house.

When Kimberly and Stefon first dated, they were in 
elementary school. After breaking up as preteens, they 
remained friends. When Stefon went to prison, social 
circles they shared always maintained his innocence. 
She sometimes wondered how he was doing, as she 
grew up, got married and had three children. After her 
Scott Lewis and his youngest daughter Harper-Rose, born a 
year after his release (photo courtesy of Scott Lewis)

first husband’s death in 2007, she reached out to the 
still-incarcerated Stefon as a penpal. By 2008 they’d 
started a romance and by 2009 they were married. His 
faith in the face of a seemingly insurmountable sen­
tence attracted her. Devotion like that, she said, was 
what she sought in a partner. She always hoped but 
Stefon Morant and his wife Kimberly, a few weeks 
after Stefon’s release from prison in late 2015 (photo 
courtesy of Kimberly Morant)



**Title: Lost Letters**
**Page number(s): 24**

 24
never fully imagined they’d be able to live as a couple 
on the outside. Then, last July, they celebrated their 
marriage with both of their families and a traditional 
wedding party. Stefon was dressed in black and white. 
It was the happiest day of his life.   

A committed romantic relationship eventually blos­
somed in Scott’s new life, too. A few years into his 
incarceration, Scott’s mother told him offhandedly 
that a young woman had come into her hair salon. The 
woman knew Scott and believed that he was innocent, 
and the case had inspired her to go to law school to get 
him out. This was years before Dignam’s legal team 
had picked up Scott’s case. He needed all the help he 
could get, and he couldn’t believe his mother didn’t 
remember the woman’s name. Without knowing who 
she was, Scott thought of her often while slogging 
through legal work behind bars. He wondered whether 
she’d ever come back to the salon, whether his mother 
would ever remember her name, whether a young 
woman would ever appear with the key to his freedom.

About a month after he came home, Scott reached 
out to an old friend, Rachel Bidon, with whom “there’d 
always been an unspoken attraction” during his former 
marriage. She was with someone at the time, but they 
went for lunch anyway. Scott wore parachute pants and 
a sparkling gold shirt, the only “going-out” outfit he 
still had from the nineteen-nineties.

As they aired old feelings, she mentioned that she 
once wanted to be a lawyer, and in the midst of studying 
for the LSATs visited his mother’s salon to tell her that 
Scott had inspired her studies. Scott was dumbstruck. 
“When does that happen?” he said, shaking his head. “I 
looked at her and said, ‘You’re the one I’m looking for.’” 
They were married five months later. Their daughter, 
Harper-Rose, is now eleven months old.

Scott has been out for three years. He’s practicing 
real estate with Pike International, and he’s just a cou­
ple of steps away from obtaining his broker’s license. 
He loves talking about the clients that he has made 
homeowners. He wears a crisp white button-down and 
shiny black loafers to work. His wedding ring gleams 
on his left hand. He gestures like a politician while he 
talks, as if he is building something for you in the air.

“Who knows?” he says. “Maybe someday I’ll be 
mayor of New Haven.” 

Lost Letters
Scott Lewis’ twenty-six-year-old daughter, Jesilinett 
Vasquez, can’t remember interacting with her father 
before he went to prison. But, save for a short break 
when she was seventeen, they exchanged letters nearly 
Stefon Morant and his children, sent as a gift to him 
while incarcerated  (drawing by Jason Peterson) 
Stefon Morant’s twin sons, Julian & Christian, 
at their high school graduation. Stefon, still 
behind bars, missed the ceremony 
(photo courtesy of Stefon Morant)



**Title: FEBRUARY 2017**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
FEBRUARY 2017
 25
twice a week throughout his entire incarceration. She 
knew what he looked like from photos, but she never 
visited and they rarely spoke on the phone. He existed 
primarily within the words he wrote to her. The notes 
ran long—usually several lined pages, front and back. 
This was their medium, which rendered Scott not so 
different from a diary that wrote back. Jesilinett says 
she’s always felt comfortable telling her dad almost 
anything: aspirations, school stresses, relationship 
woes. Stuff she’d never tell her mom.


She grew up fantasizing about an old-fashioned 
father-daughter relationship. She wished he’d helped 
her with math homework she struggled with, given her 
boyfriend a hard time, or seen her off to prom. She 
wished he’d been there when she dropped out of high 
school because she was pregnant, and when her chil­
dren Lanie and Xavier were born. She wondered if he’d 
ever dance with her at her wedding. 


Then, all of a sudden, he wasn’t in prison anymore. 
She had plans to meet him at her grandmother’s house. 
But, unsure of how it would go, she almost bailed on 
the meet-up altogether. She couldn’t remember ever 
touching him before. What should she expect? Would 
it be better to keep their relationship encapsulated in 
its past state, without real-time verbal confusion to 
muddle it? But shortly after Scott opened the door to 
embrace her, Jesilinett realized she had nothing to fear. 
She and her father embraced and talked, and it felt nat­
ural. Their on-paper rapport carried into conversation. 
She left brimming with optimism and gratitude. Her 
father was home. Really home. A couple of weeks later, 
she brought her kids to a family birthday party, and they 
met their grandfather. Again, it felt as though things 
were cohering well, if a little surreally.


Her boyfriend had met her father before she did, 
because they were in prison together. He told her Scott 
talked a big game about “becoming a father” after 
getting out. But despite the first few happy reunions, 
Jesilinett began to feel like he wasn’t making good on 
his word. She rarely heard from him, and she wanted 
him to take greater initiative to be a part her life. She 
couldn’t get rid of the fear that maybe he wasn’t the 
father she’d been waiting for, that maybe he wasn’t 
much of a father at all. 


The first thing one notices about Scott Lewis are 
his high cheekbones and soft, brown eyes. These are 
also the first things one notices about Jesilinett (who, 
although twenty-six, looks like she might be sixteen). 
Her four-year-old, Xavier, has them, too.


Jesilinett and her kids live in West Haven in a sin­
gle-family home. She said she couldn’t bring much in 
the move, so she got rid of the collection of letters she’d 
gotten from her dad while he was in prison. 


Sitting in her kitchen, Jesilinett described how she’s 
felt since her dad came home. “It hurts,” she said.


Lanie, tugging at her mother’s jeans to show her 
a drawing, floated away, then returned with a paper 
towel roll. She wordlessly handed it to Jesilinett, who 
took a sheet to wipe her eyes. “I just wish he was more 
like a father. I wish he knew them,” she said, pointing 
towards the kids.


“I know him,” said Lanie, crossing her arms. “He 
picked me up. We played a game.”


“Yeah? What do you call him? What’s his name?” 
Jesilinett asked.


Lanie pursed her lips. She looked at her feet.


“Exactly.”


Fifteen-minute phone calls once a week or less con­
stituted Scott’s relationship with his sons, beginning 
when they were in preschool. Early on, he said, he 
stopped allowing his kids to visit. The humiliation of 
getting stripped, searched, and bossed around—and 
watching his kids go through metal detectors, get repri­
manded for moving the wrong way or attempting to do 
anything other than hold his hand across a table—“trig­
gered [him] psychologically.” And, unlike Jesilinett, 
Scott’s sons didn’t strike up a written correspondence.


Before he came home, Scott took his reunion with 
his children for granted. He thought it “would be a 
given; that it was natural, biological,” but he found that 
his kids had grown up without him in their lives and 
didn’t need him. 


A few months after Scott’s release, Scottie Jr. told his 
father as much. He didn’t feel any particular emotional 
connection to his father, and as a then-twenty-six-year-
old man with two kids of his own, he wasn’t seeking 
guidance from a stranger who’d been removed from 
society since 1995. 


“We’re biologically father and son, but in terms 
of everyday living, you really don’t know me,” Scott 
recalled his son saying. “You don’t know who I am.” 


--- Page 26 ---

 26
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
Five months after his release, Jesilinett learned her 
dad was engaged to Rachel when an acquaintance 
mentioned it offhandedly in a Stop & Shop. She had 
no idea her father had been seeing someone. 


Incensed, she texted her sister Liz, who didn’t know 
either. They agreed: How did their father have the time 
to meet someone and get to know her, but not the time 
to mend and foster relationships with the family he 
already had? In his hurry to make up for lost time—
reconnect with a lost love, assemble a life, and partic­
ipate in a linear, traditional fatherhood—he had left 
them behind.


“He wasn’t only moving on. The whole thing felt like 
he was rubbing it in our faces,” Jesilinett said. 


Jesilinett “went off on him” over text. She told her 
father that she worried about the marriage. It seemed 
naïve not to acknowledge that Scott, who’d been wrong­
fully imprisoned for twenty years, stood to gain a great 
deal of money as compensation from the state. Was he 
sure that this woman’s motives were pure? 


Rachel, Scott’s fiancée, saw the messages and grew 
angry. When Harper-Rose was born about a year ago, 
Jesilinett decided to go see the family, but her relation­
ship with Rachel remained sour. Jesilinett left the hos­
pital in tears. Her dad had a new daughter and a new 
life with a woman who couldn’t stand her.


“He says he knew her before, that she helps him, 
gives him a house, that she loves him…” Jesilinett 
trailed off, waving her hand above her kitchen table.


“Blah, blah, blah,” her daughter Lanie finished.


How to Be a Father
Scott and Stefon attribute most of their post-prison 
successes to the new relationships they’ve forged, but 
both have struggled to connect with their now-adult 
children. Like Jesilinett, Stefon’s son Julian Sobin 
questioned his dad’s new relationship with Kimberly, 
and he considered skipping last year’s wedding party. 
He cried at the ceremony because it was an emotional 
day: wonderful, sure, but also difficult. He didn’t 
know Kimberly and, frankly, he hardly knew Stefon. 
He resented that his dad wasn’t trying harder to make 
things work with what he already had.


“It’s not like my mom wanted him back or anything,” 
Julian said. “But he has four kids with two women. Part 
of me was like, why does he have to join this new fam­
ily? Why couldn’t he make things work with a family 
he already had?” 


To her three kids, now all high school–aged  or 
older, Kimberly said Stefon’s been a fantastic stepfa­
ther. Julian, however, thinks his dad doesn’t really 
know how to be a parent. When Julian becomes a par­
ent, he says he hopes to emulate his mother: someone 
who was always there, who “would give the shirt off 
her back” and worked tirelessly for him and his twin 
brother Christian. 


Even though Julian knows his father didn’t commit 
the murders for which he went to prison, he’s always 
harbored resentment.


“If he’d been a good parent at the time—focusing 
on his kids or helping my mom, and not on getting 
involved in sketchy stuff—he would never have ended 
up in prison to begin with,” he explained. 


For a while, Julian thought about joining his local 
police force. During the preliminary stages at the train­
ing academy, they asked if he was related to anyone 
who’d been convicted of a crime, and he knew he’d 
have to bring up Stefon. He did, but also mentioned 
that he barely knew and almost never thought about his 
father, having been raised by his mother and grandpar­
ents. By any emotional measure, they were his parents. 


Christian feels that distance even more strongly—
which is ironic, Julian said, since Christian has so 
much in common with Stefon. They look alike, laugh 
alike, and exhibit the same rebellious streak. Growing 
up, Julian occasionally worried about Christian; he 
didn’t want him to end up like their dad.


The twins talked on the phone with Stefon occa­
sionally and visited every so often, but they didn’t like 
going to the prison. There were so many rules about 
how you could interact, and they were never sure 
how to make conversation. When they got older and 
had more control over their schedules, they went less 
regularly. Sometimes, if peers asked why his dad was 
never around, Julian would lie, saying he was away on 
business or always working. He was embarrassed. His 
friends’ parents weren’t in prison.


But when on a road trip with friends, Julian got the 
call that his dad would be free and began to sob. “The 
tears just started coming. I didn’t even know it was hap­
pening,” he said. “I just started imagining all the things 
he could be there for—if I ever get married, have kids.”


--- Page 27 ---

 27
Julian didn’t know what to expect from their rela­
tionship after the release. The first time they met, he 
mostly felt shock, and that didn’t go away for a while. 
Now, he told me, they’re more like friends than father 
and son. He is reluctant to schedule time with his dad, 
who rarely takes the initiative. Sometimes, they go to 
the gym together, where they make small talk about 
girls or sports and work out alongside each other.


In December, after Julian graduated from Southern 
Connecticut State University, Stefon took him out for 
a drink. On the drive over, Julian told his dad that he 
didn’t feel like they knew each other, that he was angry, 
and that he wished his dad felt more like a father. Ste­
fon listened sympathetically, and Julian thought things 
might change. But after a few months, he said, they 
haven’t.


“They all come back from prison having found Jesus, 
which is cool, fine,” Julian added. “So I get a lot of 
Bible verse texts. But not a lot of ‘Hey, how are you? 
How’s your life?’ texts.” 


In Search of Lost Time
Unlike his half-sister Jesilinett, Tamaje—Scott’s 
youngest child from before prison—has a single early 
memory of his dad. He must have been around four, 
which puts Scottie Jr. around six. They were at Toys 
“R” Us, and Scott told them they could each pick 
out one thing. Tamaje impulsively grabbed a piece of 
candy, but later wished he’d followed Scottie’s lead and 
picked out a Hot Wheels car. 


A week after his most recent prison release, he sat 
at the kitchen table with his fiancée. Tamaje, like his 
father and Stefon, credits her, who visited him in prison 
every day for the last year, with helping him get straight 
and giving him a place to come home.


To an extent, he thinks having his father around 
might have kept him out of trouble—he went to prison 
for the first time for drug possession when he was fif­
teen—but he also doesn’t care to linger on hypothet­
icals. 


Now, Tamaje is feeling more optimistic about the 
future. Before, it seemed impossible to get a job and 
easy to go back to the street. But this time, his dad’s 
around and has a steady income, and he’s offered Tam­
aje a part-time position at Pike. He says he never felt his 
relationship with Scott was strained, because he never 
knew what he was missing. Now, he’s looking forward 
to building a personal and professional bond.


“Maybe it’s because I’ve been in myself,” he said. 
“But I get it. I don’t hold anything against him. He lost 
a lot of his life.”


Last March, Jesilinett turned twenty-six. Scott took 
her to IHOP in the morning. 


“Just to have breakfast together, for the first time 
ever,” she said, her voice cracking a little, “that was so 
special to me.”


Like Tamaje, she sometimes wonders whether things 
would have gone more smoothly if Scott had been 
around while she was growing up. He motivates her 
unlike anyone else, she says. After several starts and 
stops over seven years, she finally got her GED this 
summer, partially as a result of his prodding. Maybe 
that would have happened sooner had he been home. 


So, there at IHOP, they talked about her study 
schedule, her aspirations for a medical career, her life 
as a mother. They discovered that neither of them even 
likes breakfast food. It’s something they share, along 
with their high cheekbones, youthful brown eyes, and 
a tendency to get cold, both indoors and out.


“Like, all the time,” said Jesilinett, reaching for her 
jacket over their unfinished pancakes.


“Me too,” said Scott. “Have I told you about my first 
day out of prison?”


— Caroline Wray is a senior 
in Jonathan Edwards College.
Scott Lewis and Stefon Morant shortly after Morant’s 
release in 2015 (photo courtesy of Scott Lewis)



**Title: ON A TUESDAY**
**Author: Griffin Brown**
**Page number(s): 28**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Here, now, a half-dozen people
are nearly touching one another
under the rubble
of the Salvation Army
thrift store. 

By evening, I have exhausted
the coverage. There’s a photo
of a family standing at the edge
of the cluttered lot. To their left,
an excavator rests 
with its head down.
Dust coats the daughters’ hair.
They’ll be gone as soon as the light changes.
Their car is just around the corner;
with the walls gone, you can see it.
What surrounds the car is full of holes:
lens flares burn through other buildings
and faded billboard advertisements.
Street signs with bent stems—
casualties—
stick out of the broken sidewalk.
World is ready to cave in.


**Title: Sin, Story, and Salvation**
**Author: Kirstin Valdez Quade**
**Page number(s): 29**

Kirstin Valdez Quade
Sin, Story, and Salvation
thursday, february 23 · 5:30 pm
Sterling Memorial Library Auditorium · 130 Wall St., New Haven
Yale Literature & Spirituality Series 
Presented with support from Yale Divinity Student Book Supply
Kammerchor Stuttgart
Music of Fasch, Mendelssohn, and more
sunday, march 5 · 7:30 pm
Battell Chapel · 400 College St., New Haven
Music for Palm Sunday 
Yale Camerata · Marguerite L. Brooks, conductor
Premiere of a new work by Robert Kyr
sunday, april 9 · 4 pm
Woolsey Hall · 500 College St., New Haven
yale institute of sacred music presents
All events are free; no tickets required. ism.yale.edu



**Can Yale Be A Sanctuary?**
**Author: Annie Rosenthal and Amelia Nierenberg**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
On the night of January 29, 2017, a crowd of nearly 1,500 people gathered in front of Sterling Memorial Library. The previous week, President Donald Trump had issued a dizzying array of executive orders targeting refugees and immigrants. The people had come to protest. The word SOLIDARITY, projected over Sterling’s façade, illuminated the old stones with a call to action. Swaddled in winter coats and holding candles, students, professors, and New Haven residents young and old stood shoulder-to-shoulder. 

Yale sophomore Alejandra Corona Ortega took the microphone and began to speak. She said the recent presidential election had made her question whether she belonged at Yale—that, as an undocumented immigrant, she’d begun to wonder if the promises of America were not for her. Was an America that would elect Trump a country that could ever support her?

Her voice rose as she addressed Trump’s recent threats to increase deportations and withhold funding from sanctuary cities like New Haven, which has pledged to limit its cooperation with federal immigration enforcement actions.

“He, and people like him, will never stop until we are too afraid or overwhelmed to speak up,” she said. “Or worse, too indifferent to do anything. But nights like these give me the strength to not let fear seep in.”

Corona Ortega, a New Haven local who graduated as valedictorian of the Sound School in 2015, continued amid applause. She’s become accustomed to speaking about her immigration status — she “came out” as undocumented last spring at a rally for Bernie Sanders on the New Haven Green.


For liberal arts institutions, the Trump presidency — evidently hostile to dissent of any kind, fearful of multiculturalism, skeptical of experts and even the notion of truth — poses a range of confounding challenges. Few are more urgent than how to respond to Trump’s immigration policies. How far will Yale go to protect those who study and teach here? How much power does this wealthy, elite institution have to resist the tide of national policy? And how does the institution’s location in New Haven — the country’s first “sanctuary city”— affect the answers to these questions?

In the uneasy first month of the Trump presidency, there are few answers. But activism has escalated significantly at Yale and in New Haven, forcing these issues to the fore. Since Trump’s inauguration on January 20, city residents and students have taken to the streets and to the Green, many protests organized primarily by New Haven organizations like Unidad Latina en Acción (ULA). Almost all have been direct responses to Trump’s immigration policies. 

In his first week in office, Trump issued four executive orders targeting immigrants. On January 27, he banned refugees worldwide from entering the United States. He temporarily halted immigration for ninety days for all people from the predominantly Muslim countries Iraq, Syria, Iran, Sudan, Libya, Somalia, and Yemen, a ban which has since been frozen by federal courts. He ordered the construction of a 2,000-mile-long wall along the Mexican border. He announced plans for a weekly online list of crimes committed by undocumented immigrants. And he re-enacted the “Secure Communities” program, started under George W. Bush and continued under Obama until 2014. The program requires the FBI, which routinely runs the fingerprints of arrested individuals against its own databases, to also run them against databases maintained by Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) —sometimes leading to deportation or other legal consequences.

“Enhancing Public Safety in the Interior of the United States,” the executive order most directly concerning to Corona Ortega and other undocumented Yale affiliates, expands the discretionary power of individual ICE officers. It also broadens the definition of “criminal” to target nearly every undocumented immigrant for deportation. The university does not collect official numbers, but the Yale Daily News reported in 2013 that there were at most twenty undocumented students on campus. This year, Ramon Garibaldo Valdez, an undocumented first-year graduate student who has advocated for undocumented students, estimated the number to be somewhere around thirty. 

The flurry of action has left undocumented Yale students bracing for the worst. Corona Ortega and others who have no legal status worry that their long-held fears of deportation could come true. Other students, like junior Rafael*, obtained a Social Security Number and a driver’s license through the Deferred Action Childhood Arrival Program (DACA), a program Obama created in 2013 via executive order. Rafael can drive and work legally in the U.S., and he feels safe to a certain extent. But “DACA-mented” students face a new threat to their sense of security, too: Throughout his campaign, Trump threatened to end DACA entirely. 

Some undocumented Yalies, like Corona Ortega, have turned to activism. Others, like Rafael, fear talking publicly about their immigration status. Because Yale is the wealthiest and most powerful institution with which they are affiliated, many are looking to the university for support in this moment of uncertainty. 

Yale has taken a strong public stance against one aspect of Trump’s immigration policy: The ban on refugees and immigrants from muslim countries. As a member of the Association of American Universities, Yale backed a January 28 AAU statement calling for a swift end to the executive order, which would have barred returning students and faculty from certain countries — a fact University President Salovey detailed in a campus-wide email on January 29. On February 13, Yale joined Harvard, Stanford, and fourteen other universities in filing an amicus curiae brief in support of a legal case against the order. Salovey has also publicly supported the BRIDGE Act, recently proposed legislation meant to protect DACA students if the program were terminated. 

In a November opinion piece in the Yale Daily News, Salovey promised legal representation for undocumented Yale students and formalized the Yale Police Department’s policy of non-compliance with ICE. Tom Conroy, director of the university’s Office of Public Affairs & Communications, wrote in an email that university policy now mandates that YPD officers will neither inquire as to immigration status in non-criminal activity “nor enforce civil provisions of U.S. immigration law.” 

Following the election, the Office of International Students and Scholars (OISS) created a new website with resources and advice for undocumented and DACA-mented students. On November 9, OISS director Ann Kuhlman sent an email to undocumented students. She acknowledged that “some of the policies discussed during the campaign are understandably raising concerns for the undocumented and DACA-mented community, at Yale and beyond, on how the new administration will address the broader issue of undocumented individuals.” She wrote to the recipients: “you are an important and valued part of the Yale community and to let you know our office is alert to these issues and will monitor them closely. Presidents Salovey and Levin before him have long advocated for a reform of U.S. immigration and expressed support for the DREAM Act. This expression of support will continue.” At the end, she wrote: “We are all here for you.” 

While many immigrants and their supporters on campus say they appreciate the offers of assistance from OISS, they remain frustrated with what they view as an opaque response from the Yale administration. On December 19, Salovey quietly rejected a petition signed by nearly 1,000 members of the community asking Yale to designate itself a “sanctuary campus.” The sanctuary designation, a concept both symbolic and concrete that has drawn massive support on college campuses around the country, would publicly declare Yale’s refusal to collaborate with ICE officials attempting to detain members of the university community. While all Ivy League universities except the University of Pennsylvania publicly rejected the label, students at over one hundred schools have petitioned to adopt it. Thirteen colleges, including Wesleyan University and Connecticut College, have publically declared themselves as sanctuaries.

Salovey’s rejection came at the bottom of a Yale News press release about the BRIDGE Act — without ceremony and without campus-wide recognition. Tom Conroy, director of the university’s Office of Public Affairs & Communications, said in an email that the briefing was emailed out to the entire Yale community. “Yale’s Office of Public Affairs has engaged with a number of media members about Yale’s position, and I don’t believe there is any public confusion regarding that position,” he wrote. But much of the student body seems to remain unaware of the decision: a January 27th Yale Daily News article on the Yale sanctuary campus movement wrote that Salovey had “indicated neither support nor opposition to that proposal.” And on February 8th, Viviana Arroyo, co-moderator of the student organization Movimiento Estudiantil Chicano de Aztlán (MEChA), wrote in an email, “Many students are unclear about whether or not the administration has clearly come out and said that Yale will be a sanctuary campus.” The day of the vigil, Salovey sent a university-wide email to the university community expressing support for Yale’s immigrant community and highlighting the importance of diversity on campus, but no administrator spoke at the event.


Corona Ortega has a hard time falling asleep these days. Events like the vigil are bright moments in an otherwise stressful period. An aspiring lawyer, she is taking five classes as an Ethnicity, Race & Migration major, working as a public school intern through Dwight Hall, volunteering with New Haven’s JUNTA for Progressive Action, and organizing in support of immigrants like 


**Title: Undocumented at Yale**
**Author: Annie Rosenthal and Amelia Nierenberg**
**Page number(s): 34-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 34
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
herself at Yale—all while constantly monitoring the 
news for updates on Trump’s policies. Though she says 
her friends at school have been supportive since the 
election, most are not undocumented, and the people 
she worries about are not on campus. 

Since Trump’s election, New Haven’s status as a 
sanctuary city—which Mayor Toni Harp has repeat­
edly affirmed in recent weeks even in the face of fed­
eral funding cuts—has come to feel more significant 
to Corona Ortega, who moved here with her family 
nearly ten years ago. She spent most of her child­
hood over two-thousand miles away from her mother: 
While Corona Ortega and her brother stayed home 
with relatives in Puebla, Mexico, her mom worked 
in New Haven and sent money back to support them. 
After nearly a decade away, her mother moved back to 
Puebla to be with her children. But making ends meet 
was nearly impossible—she opened a series of baker­
ies that all failed. When Corona Ortega finished sixth 
grade, her mother told her that they wouldn’t be able 
to afford to send her to seventh; in Mexico, her school 
charged for uniforms and other mandatory services. 
But Corona Ortega was smart, her mother said, and 
deserved a better life than the one she’d had. They sold 
everything they owned to pay a coyote to help them 
make the journey to New Haven with Corona Ortega’s 
older brother and stepfather.

The Elm City’s designation as a sanctuary city kept 
them safe. Once, when her mother was driving Corona 
Ortega home from work in North Branford late one 
evening, a police officer stopped their car and asked to 
see her driver’s license. When Corona Ortega’s mother 
couldn’t produce one, the officer asked why she was driv­
ing without a license. “I have to work,” she responded. 
Corona Ortega recalls that the officer seemed to under­
stand immediately that she was undocumented—but 
the officer simply fined Corona Ortega’s mother and 
sent them on their way. On November 14, less than a 
week after the election, Mayor Toni Harp readied New 
Haven’s top lawyers to start preparing a legal defense 
in case Trump attacked New Haven—despite the fact 
that affirming its sanctuary distinction jeopardizes $56 
million of New Haven’s federal funding.

“New Haven residents have never questioned if I 
deserve an education or if my family deserved a job,” 
she told the crowd gathered at the vigil in January. 
“They’re fighting for people like me.”

According to Fatima Rojas, a volunteer with both 
ULA and JUNTA, fighting for the immigrant commu­
nity means fighting alongside them. After the election, 
both immigrant advocacy groups met with representa­
tives from City Hall to set up a working group to define 
what “sanctuary” will mean for New Haven. The group 
also includes representatives from the New Haven pub­
lic school district and the police department. Rojas, who 
is a member of the working group, says it has defined 
three principle aims: to strengthen the legal language 
of the police general order, to extend the sanctuary sta­
tus to New Haven public schools, and to create a legal 
document defining New Haven’s concept of a sanctu­
ary city, with help from the Immigration Legal Services 
Yale Law School clinic.

Since the election in November, attendance at ULA 
meetings has more than doubled—on the Monday 
after the inauguration, over fifty members of the New 
Haven immigrant community packed the folding chairs 
at the group’s Howe Street office. Children played on 
the floor as their parents looked to community lead­
ers for advice. Before the election, many came to the 
group for support in cases of housing discrimination, 
wage theft, and police brutality. Now, ULA co-founder 
John Jairo Lugo says that deportation is as real a threat 
as any. In recent weeks, ULA has worked with La Casa 
Cultural, the Latinx cultural center at Yale, to organize 
phone banking sessions to call local representatives, 
and Lugo says they’ve been inspired by the number 
of Yale students turning out to show their support at 
rallies. He’d like to see Yale’s administration extend 
support to immigrants in New Haven—given the uni­
versity’s clout, a public show of solidarity could provide 


--- Page 35 ---
FEBRUARY 2017
 35
a powerful counter to the racism that Trump has legiti­
mized. But, he says, he’s not holding his breath.	

—
Rafael has not felt as anxious as Alejandra on campus 
or at home in rural Georgia. The path to Yale began 
when his parents left Aguascalientes, Mexico in 2001, 
determined to give their children access to education. 
According to the Pew Research center, the number of 
unauthorized immigrants from Mexico living in the 
United States rose steadily from 1995; the population 
peaked at 6.9 million new arrivals in 2007. Rafael and 
his parents came on legal visas and overstayed, join­
ing the American undocumented population over­
night. They followed his father’s friend to a small 
town in a Trump-voting county with cotton fields and 
pine groves, fast-food restaurants and a new Wal-Mart 
Supercenter, a single Catholic church and a handful 
of Hispanic families. Rafael’s four younger sisters were 
all born there, and they have all excelled in the town’s 
public schools. Rafael says going back to Mexico isn’t 
even a question. They live in Georgia. They’ll stay in 
Georgia. Most of their family is American.

After easily rising to the top of his middle school, 
Rafael spent the summer after his junior year in high 
school at the Georgia Governor’s Honors Program, 
the most prestigious academic summer program in 
the state. His success planted what he called “the idea 
of a Harvard” in his mind, and he focused his college 
search on prestigious private institutions. His teach­
ers encouraged him to apply out of state. He was that 
kind of student. But Rafael also had no other options 
— Georgia is one of three states nationwide that effec­
tively ban undocumented students from enrolling.  

When Obama created DACA in 2013, Rafael gained 
an immigration status that conferred practical and psy­
chological benefits. When he was admitted to Yale, his 
status was not much of a concern. To Rafael, being at 
Yale provides an imperfect sense of security. “I am not 
vulnerable in the sense that I have a Yale degree,” he 
said. “But I am vulnerable because some of the closest 
people to me are vulnerable, and there is nothing I can 
do to stop that.”

Jennifer Angarita, who graduated from Yale in 2010, 
remembers being undocumented at Yale in a pre-
DACA America. Now that she has a Green card, she 
remains engaged in immigration activism and orga­
nizing in Boston, and she spent much of her time at 
Yale involved with campus groups like MEChA and 
New Haven groups like JUNTA. Although the uni­
versity administrators were supportive and she found 
professors she could trust, she kept her immigration 
status close to her chest. In particular, she remembers 
Ann Kuhlman of OISS as an advocate, unwilling to 
make any public declarations but very sympathetic to 
what Angarita described as the “trauma of living as an 
undocumented student.” Now, Angarita and Dwight 
Hall director Peter Crumlish are discussing establish­
ing an advisory network for undocumented students 
to connect with undocumented alumni. Postgraduate 
opportunities are few and uncertain for undocumented 
students, and she wants to help establish an “under­
ground railroad” of professional and personal support. 
Today, it is safer and a little easier for undocumented 
students to move through the university, especially 
those protected by DACA. But there are still obstacles 
for completely undocumented students like Corona 
Ortega. For one thing, she’d like to work as a peer liai­
son at La Casa or as an aide in the Timothy Dwight 
College Office, but without DACA status, she’s not eli­
gible for employment by the university. In accordance 
with Yale’s need-blind admissions policy, Corona Orte­
ga’s tuition is covered by financial aid. But financial 
aid doesn’t cover the cost of textbooks, and she says her 
family needs the additional money she could bring in 
with a job. Her brother is in community college, and 
he and their mother both work as wait staff.

To some extent, Corona Ortega does feel protected 
by the Yale bubble: She says she doubts that ICE agents 
would come to Yale’s campus to physically detain her—
at least, she hopes that Yale wouldn’t allow them to. 
But after Trump’s executive orders, she worries about 
the possibility of a less dramatic encounter: returning 
to her suite one day to find that ICE had unceremoni­
ously left her a deportation order. She’s not confident 
that the Yale administration could, or would, prevent 
that from happening. In an email, Conroy wrote that 
law enforcement can only enter campus with a search 
warrant, and are required to check in with the Yale 
Police Department. If that worst-case scenario were to 
occur, Corona Ortega says she wouldn’t look to Yale 
for support. Her family has already contacted a lawyer. 
Garibaldo Valdez, the undocumented graduate stu­
dent in political science, says he thinks Yale’s decision 


--- Page 36 ---
 36
to discreetly publish its rejection of sanctuary campus 
designation was a politically savvy one.  According to 
the 2016 Annual Budget Report, Yale receives over 
$500 million in federal funding that supports seven­
ty-five percent of the research conducted on campus. 
Conroy dismissed the idea that any of Yale’s actions 
are influenced by the need to protect funding, writ­
ing: “Any speculation that Yale’s positions on undoc­
umented students and immigration is at all influenced 
by concern for federal research funding is completely 
unfounded and unfair.” 

Garibaldo Valdez doesn’t see the rejection as a com­
plete loss, though. Of the ten pillars of a sanctuary 
campus presented by the petition, the administration 
has at least partially implemented half: promising legal 
representation for students, appointing Ann Kuhlman 
to be a university liaison for undocumented students, 
forbidding police cooperation with ICE, and creating 
the OISS resource website. But Garibaldo Valdez says 
that these actions constitute only a small fraction of 
what the administration could do if it wanted to. 

“For a student who’s coming of age in the era of 
Trump, I am looking towards my institution, asking, 
‘What do you think?’” he said. “And the response hap­
pening right now from the student body is, ‘We are with 
you, you are a part of Yale.’ And from the administra­
tion, it’s ‘We’re kind of with you, but we don’t want to 
lose federal funding.”

Unlike Corona Ortega, Rafael chose to attend Yale 
without knowing much about New Haven or Yale’s his­
tory with DACA-mented students. When he came to 
New Haven in 2014, he had never seen the campus, 
and he is the only member of his family who has. Still, 
it feels like home.

For Rafael, Yale is about attaining his version of 
the American Dream. He’s staking out internships at 
places like Goldman Sachs and McKinsey Consulting, 
majoring in economics rather than psychology, his pas­
sion, to maximize his chances for economic success. 
At home in Georgia, switching easily between Span­
ish and English so his parents could understand, Rafael 
said he was lucky to have made it to Yale. “I’m on the 
successful side of the dream,” he said. “I’m fortunate 
for that. But at the same time, it’s a kind of an ideol­
ogy that keeps you going forward.” He wants to suc­
ceed financially, but he also wants to prove himself. 
“There’s a stereotype that’s continuously pushed — we 
aren’t contributing, we aren’t doing anything,” he said 
of American prejudices against undocumented His­
panic immigrants.

Of her son’s path, Rafael’s mother said, “Te tocó.” 
Rafael paused. “I don’t know how to translate that,” 
he said. “If I translated exactly… ‘it touched you’?”

He tried again. “She’s thankful for that and the fact 
that it worked out for me,” he said. “She doesn’t want 
it to sound like it’s been a gift. It’s something that you 
worked hard for but also, it’s lucky.”

Undocumented students like Rafael and Corona 
Ortega say they never take their place at Yale for 
granted. But they also say that as students here, they see 
themselves as full members of the Yale community—
defined not by the public statements of administrators 
but by the actions of their peers and professors. In that 
sense, they haven’t been disappointed.

Garibaldo Valdez agrees. Speaking at a Sanctuary 
Campus walk-out on November 16, standing in the 
very same spot where Alejandra would address the 
crowd two months later, he says he was shocked by the 
sense of security he felt.

“I have never imagined I could be in a university-reg­
ulated space where I don’t have to feel a certain degree 
of apprehension, not to say fear, to say my status,” he 
said. “And part of it is not due to the administrative 
benefits I’ve gotten, but it is due to the student body. 
And so the student body has made me feel like I am a 
part of Yale.”

The future remains unknowable; both Alejandra and 
Rafael move through Yale bearing the constant weight 
of uncertainty. But one thing is certain: The fate of 
undocumented immigrants at Yale will depend not 
only on Trump’s actions but the actions of their neigh­
bors on campus. If students keep attending rallies, call­
ing their senators, showing up—then sanctuary status 
could be authored by action instead of administrative 
declaration.

But Garibaldo Valdez would still welcome that 
administrative declaration. 

“It’s this feeling that I am a part of Yale, and you’re 
not treating me as such,” he said. “I mean, if one of 
your students were being threatened with this dark 
cloud of deportation, would you not go to the furthest 
extent to protect them? Would you not come up with 
things to do to make them feel safe? And I am seeing 
some of that. I wish I could see more of it.”

*To protect himself and his family, Rafael is using a 
pseudonym in this story. 
— Annie Rosenthal is a freshman 
in Berkeley College, and Amelia Nierenberg 
is a junior in Timothy Dwight College. 


**Title: WHINE AND DINE**
**Author: Jacob Sweet**
**Page number(s): 37-38**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
1. Making a dignified entrance
You’ve made your first mistake: entering 
a dining hall without an eating partner. 
How did it end up like this? Just today, ten 
acquaintances inquired about grabbing a 
meal and catching up, but when you asked 
what time worked, they started sweating 
and fled. Weird. You don’t want to look like 
you’re trying too hard to find somebody, but 
if you don’t put in enough effort, you’ll end 
up sitting alone. You see Jimmy from Orgo. 
His notebook of chemical reactions is open 
next to his cup of Mountain Berry Blast Pow­
erade. If all else fails, Jimmy is always super 
down to talk about stereoisomeric relation­
ships and his overbearing parents. Before you 
enter the kitchen, you see two of your friends 
halfway through their meal. Last time you 
joined them, they wouldn’t leave until you 
finished. Not wanting to delay them, you ate 
so fast you choked on your beef and kimchi 
taco. Yikes. You avoid eye contact and head 
toward the line.


2. Rationing chicken tenders
You’re third in line for chicken tenders, 
and by the time you’re up, three remain. 
Normally, you’d take all three, probably 
more. Chicken tender day is a gluttonous 
celebration, and one or two doesn’t cut it. 
But there’s someone behind you. You don’t 
want to leave her with nothing, but at the 
same time, would she be happy with just 
one? She’ll likely take it, and then wait for 
more. The lone tender you left will be the 
coldest on her plate. You glance back, gaug­
ing her expression, and she smiles. It seemed 
like a genuine smile, but was it too genuine? 
Your legs begin to shake and you nearly lose 
control of the tender tongs. You take two. 
Not enough for you, not enough for her. As 
you walk to the sauce table, the dining hall 
staff whip out a fresh batch. It’s too late now 
to go back in line; you would be admitting 
defeat. You drizzle sweet and sour sauce on 
your plate in quiet resignation. 


3. Ordering a hamburger
You’re craving more meat, so you walk to 
the grill. The grill master looks at you, expect­
ing an order, but you’re not ready. It will take 
around seven minutes for the burger to cook. 
By that time, you’ll be seated, enveloped in a 
riveting conversation with your yet-to-be-de­
termined meal partner. Going back to grab 
your hamburger may stunt or even terminate 
your conversation. And what if the person 
you’re talking to just watched Food Inc. and 
is repulsed by the steaming hunk of meat on 
your plate? And don’t you think it’s kind of 
rude that you’re asking an employee to make 
you a hamburger when there’s plenty of pre­
pared food? And—“Excuse me,” the dining 
hall employee says, “Would you like a ham­
burger or not?” You notice that there are sev­
enteen people behind you.
“No thanks,” you say. You exit the kitchen 
and sit alone, fantasizing about red meat.


4. Scooping out ice cream
You grab the ice cream scooper out of the 
murky water, and flip open a metal top—
vanilla. You try another—raspberry. On the 
third try, you find an empty tub. No, wait: 
there’s three inches of rock-hard chocolate 
ice cream stuck to the bottom of the con­
tainer. You should have known that the 
Berkeley freezer would be set to an inappro­
priately low temperature, but there’s no use 
in having another dining hall meltdown. You 
don’t want Yale Security to pin you to the 
floor again. You get to work, reaching your 
entire arm into the freezer, digging into the 
ice cream with the world’s tiniest ice cream 
scooper. To get an adequate amount of ice 
cream, you’d need at least five or six more 
scoops, but you don’t have that kind of time. 
There is one person in line behind you, and 
you know that if you keep scooping, he’ll 
write an op-ed about how much he hates 
you. You get one last scoop into your to-go 
cup and steal a metal spoon because there 
are no to-go spoons. By the time you get back 
to your suite, the ice cream is melted. You 
drink it like a thin milkshake, which is a sad 
thing to drink alone.
— Jacob Sweet is a junior 
in Hopper College.
illustrations bix archer



**Title: THE NEW JOURNAL**
**Author: None Listed**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 40
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
