Publication date: May 2011
Volume: 45
Issue number: 1

**MASTHEAD:**
- Cover: Tom Stokes
- Publishers: Madeleine Broder, Jimmy Murphy
- Editors-in-Chief: Max Ehrenfreund, Jacque Feldman
- Managing Editors: Juliana Hanle, Aliyya Swaby
- Photo & Design Editors: Brianne Bowen, Susannah Shattuck
- Senior Editors: Jessica Cole, Julia Fisher, Helen Knight, Sara Mich
- Production Manager: Andrew Calder
- Business Director: Whitney Schumacher
- Research Director: Nicholas Geiser
- Associate Editors: Eli Mandel, Emily Rappaport
- Online Editor: Bay Gross
- Copy Editors: Heeseung Kim, Victoria Sanchez, Victor Zapana
- Staff Writers: Laura Blake, Rachel Lipstein
- Members and Directors: Emily Bazelon, Roger Cohn, Peter B. Cooper, Jonathan Dach, Tom Griggs, Brooks Kelley, Kathrin I.assila, Jennifer Pitts, Henry Schwab, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, Fred Strebeigh, Thomas Strong
- Advisors: Richard Bradley, Jay Carney, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, David Slifka, John Swansburg, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Michad Addison, Austin Family Fund, Steve Ballou, J. Neela Banerjee, Margaret Bauer, Anson M. Beard, Jr., Blaire Bennett, Richard Bradley, Manha Brant, Susan Braudy, Danid Brook, Hilary Callahan, Jay Carney, Daphne Chu, Josh Civin, Jonathan M. Clark, Constance Clement, Andy Coun, Masi Denison, Albert J. Fox, Mrs. Howard Fox, David Freeman, Geoffrey Fried, Sherwin Goldman, David Greenberg, Stephen Hellman, Laura Heymann, Gerald Hwang, Walter Jacob, Jane Kamensky, Tina Kelley, Roger Kirwood, Jonathan Lear, Lewis E. Lehrman, Jim Lowe, E. Nobles Lowe, Daniel Murphy, Martha E. Neil, Peter Neil, Howard H. Newman, Sean O'Brien, Laura Pappa no, Julie Peters, Lewis and Joan Platt, Josh Plaut, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, Fai•fax C. Randal, Robert Randolph, Stuart Rohrer Arleen and Arthur Sager, Richard Shields, W. Ha.mp,ton Sides, Lisa Silverman, Scott Simpson, Adina Proposco and David Sulsman, Thomas Strong, Whitdeather, Blake Wilson, Daniel Yergin and Angela Stent Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**

POINTS OF DEPARTURE
CRITICAL ANGLE: TITLE IX: TAKING YALE TO COURT - Dr. Ann Olivarius
SNAPSHOT: A TRIP TO THE CORNER STORE - jake Conway
NOT ON THEIR WATCH - Sanjena Sathian
HIDE YOUR TIRES - jeffrey Kaiser
HOW TO KEEP A PROMISE - jacque Feldman
PROFILE: THE HOUSE THAT ALICE BUILT - juliana Hanle
PERSONAL ESSAY: AT HOME IN THE ARAB WORLD - Helen Knight
ENDNOTE - Eleanor Kenyon


**Title: POINTS OF DEPARTURE**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 4**


**Title: CRITICAL ANGLE: TITLE IX: TAKING YALE TO COURT**
**Author: Dr. Ann Olivarius**
**Page number(s): 10**



**Title: SNAPSHOT: A TRIP TO THE CORNER STORE**
**Author: jake Conway**
**Page number(s): 15**



**Title: NOT ON THEIR WATCH**
**Author: Sanjena Sathian**
**Page number(s): 18**

Putting on the red jacket of an international civilian crime-fighting brotherhood.


**Title: HIDE YOUR TIRES**
**Author: jeffrey Kaiser**
**Page number(s): 24**

Traveling inside used tires, the world's most dangerous mosquito threatens to invade Connecticut.


**Title: HOW TO KEEP A PROMISE**
**Author: jacque Feldman**
**Page number(s): 30**

The New Haven Promise program goes off to college this fall.



**Title: PROFILE: THE HOUSE THAT ALICE BUILT**
**Author: juliana Hanle**
**Page number(s): 40**



**Title: PERSONAL ESSAY: AT HOME IN THE ARAB WORLD**
**Author: Helen Knight**
**Page number(s): 43**



**Title: ENDNOTE**
**Author: Eleanor Kenyon**
**Page number(s): 47**



**American Elms in New Haven**
**Author: Eli Mandel**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
erican Eltn, 
At11erican City 
In 1685, William Cooper gave an 
unusual gift. The po·or Hamden farmer 
uprooted two saplings, specimens of 
Ulmus Americana, the American elm ' 
from his farm and hauled them on his 
wagon five miles to the budding city of 
New Haven, where he planted them in 
front of the church that then stood on 
the town green. They were the first elms 
recorded to have been planted in the city.· 
Nearly three and a half centuries 
.later, the city of New Haven received 
· an eerily similar present. In 2009 and 
2010, Deborah Edwards and other 
members of the Garden Club of New 
Haven made two trips, presumably not 
by wagon, to · Hamden's Whitneyville 
United Church of Christ, where two 
venerable American elms stand. The · 
. . 
club members gathered up seeds and 
saplings from the trees and hastened 
them back to New Haven. 
But the Garden 
Club, whose 
members do civic horticultural work in 
New Haven, did not intend to donate 
them to a Puritan minister and his white 
clapboard chapel. The project that 
Edwards oversees, "American Elms in 
New Haven: On its Green and in its 
Neighborhoods," has as one of its goals 
another, perhaps higher, aspiration 
to 
restore the Elm City to at least some of 
its former glory. 

New Haven has had a long and 
tragic history with Ulmus americana. 
Late 
eighteenth-~entury 
enthusiasts 
oversaw the first systematic planting of 
elms on the Green. Shordy thereafter, 
James Hillhouse of Hillhouse Avenue 
fame 
packed the rest of the city with 
them. By the middle of the nineteenth 
century, New Haven resembled an 
exclusive, elms-preferred arboreal club. 
But trees are not pillars of stone. 
In 1838, an infestation of cankerworm 
caterpi11ars 
munched 
through New 
Haven's elm foliage. They continued 
to do so sporadically in the years that 
followed. Then, towards the end of 
the 1800s, elm bark beetles arrived 
in New Haven and began to eat their 
. way through the trees 
themselves. 

New Haven residents desperately tried 
surrounding the elms' lower trunks with 
moats of oil to prevent the wingless 
cankerworms from gaining access to 
branches. They later doused the trees 
with the highly toxic compound lead 
arsenate to ward off the beetles. 

Despite _these efforts, the elm 
population was shrinking. In 1930, the 
United States recorded its first case of 
Dutch elm disease, a fungus carried by 
beetles that is all but certain death to 
Ulmus americana. In the 1940s, the tree 
·disease struck New Haven, and within a 
few decades, ninety percent of the Elm 
City's eponymous trees were gone. 

This is where Edwards's work 
comes in, she told me. The elms at the 
Whitneyville 
Congregational Church 
evidently resisted the disease; the seeds 
gathered there are likely to be disease 
~esistant as well. So Edwards's project 
has distributed those seeds, along with 
some American elm seeds bought 
commercially and known to be resistant, 
to some of its members and to local 
schoolchildren. The members will raise 
the trees, 131 in all, in what Edwards 
called "foster care." Then, in 2013, when 
the trees are four- to five-foot saplings, 
they will be transplanted to various New 
Haven schools, nonprofi~and perhaps 
residential yards. If New Haven. is 
_ lucky which will become evident only 
after a few decades 
the elms will be 
resistant to Dutch elm disease and will 
grace the city for centuries to come. 

Edwards is not the only expert on 
New Raven's elms. When I requested 
literature on the topic at the New Haven 
' Historical Society's Whitney Library, 
THE NEW JouRNAL 


' 
· · the librariari peered at me knowingly 
through her thick spectacles and then 
buried me under piles of memorabilia 
about New Raven's long-dead trees; 
As the number of elms dwindled 
over the twentieth century, New Haven 
residents 
mourned 
their loss 
and 
memorialized their love for the trees. 
~ newspaper clipping from February 
5, 1972 lamented the loss of Hillhouse 
Avenue's last elm. A book by an early 
twentieth century resident, self-published 
. and inexplicably dedicated to William 
Howard Taft, criticized New Haven 
residents for their failure to take better 
care of their trees. A bound copy of a 
Yale term paper from 1986 argued that 
the Elm City's trees had suffered most 
from unnatural calamities, including 
"leaky gas mains" and the ill-tempered 
horses of ninteenth-century locals; who 
had a predilection for wreaking havoc on 
the trees' trunks. 

In a 2006 piece in the Yale Alumni 
Magazine, School of Forestry and 
Environmental 
Studies 
Professor 
Stephen Kellert speculated that we 
are drawn to Ulmus americana because 
it resembles the tree species of our 
primordial birthplace on the African 
savannah. Walking along the Green on 
a recent spring day, I tried to imagine it 
as it looked in_ the photographs that I 
came upon in the Whitney Library from 
the early twentieth century. If Edwards's 
. seedlings prove hardy, the gritty sidewalk 
will once again look elegant beneath the 
towering, gently fluted trees that gave 
the Elm City its name. 
___,Eli Mandel 


**Institute**
**Author: Max Ehrenfreund**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

The food's on the table: chicken salad, 
r 
tomatoes, grapes, chips, and a bowl of 
York Peppermint Patties. Let's go ahead 
and say a blessing! A graduate student in 
astronomy bends his head Our father 
MAY 2011 
\ 
in Heaven, we are grateful to be able 
to have Institute today, to discuss the 
problems of life and put the• n in the 
light and perspective of Scripture. In the 
name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 

Institute is just a short name for 
Institutes of Religion, the program 
whereby the Church of Jesus Christ 
of Latter-day Saints provides for and 
~ 
educates those I .DS students going 
to school outside of Brigham Young 
University. I'm visiting to hear Brother 
Stephen Weber lead today's lunchtime 
class at the New Haven Institute of 
Religion, which students from Yale, 
Quinnipiac, and other schools in the 
area attend in this Trumbull Street 
church. Yes, this is a church, but ifs 
an educational institute first 'We're 
turning it into a greater-use building," 
Brother Weber says. The fourth floor 
is a welcoming space because of the 
skylights, particularly on a nice sunny 
day like today, and there's a foosball table 
.and a ping-pong table and air hockey 
and bi1Iiards. If you just want to come 
here to relax or study, you're of course 
welcome any time. 

Anyone who shows up later wi11 
just have to trust that the food has 
been blessed. Brother Weber is serving 
drinks. Apple juice, grape juice, or 
Sprite. He admonishes a congregant 
to serve himself a healthful portion of 
chicken salad. His class today is on the 
Doctt ine and Covenants, the revelations 
given through Joseph Smith during his 
life. Smith was the Church's founding 
prophet, called by God to restore the 
Gospel to earth in its fn11ness. 

Brother Weber's assistant Valerie 
Ramos has just gotten off the phone 
with the mother of a high school senior 
who has a rule for her daughter that 
every college she applies to must have 
an Institute program. Valerie, wearing 
slacks and a sr nart periwinkle cardigan, 
has been with the Institute since her 
husband began the Yale School of 
Medicine's Physician Associate progra••• 
more than a year ago. They have no 
children. ''Not yet," adds a woman 
parking a stroller beside us. Some rime 
after my visit, Valerie wiiJ announce she 
is expecting a child in the fall. 

In the meantime, two women here 
are pregnant, so Bailey, the baby in 
the stroller, will soon have playmates 
anyway. In addition to the hundred-odd 
undergraduates in the congregation, 
there are about thirty LDS graduate 
students or residents at Yale, and many 
of them are married and have families, 
according to Brother Weber. In raising 
their children while pursuing advanced 
degrees, they've chosen . a difficult path, 
but a sweet one as well. 

Soon we are all seated and eating 
at the four round tables covered with 
wine-colored plastic tablecloths. We are 
discussing the story of Martin Harris. 
As you know, in 1828 the prophet had 
translated the first 116 pages of the Book 
of Mormon, and he entrusted the work 
he had completed so far to Harris 
after 
the Lord had acquiesced to this through 
the prophet. That portion of the Book 
was called the Book of Lehi, and it was 
. 
lost. The pages fell into the hands of 
. . . 
wicked men who were trying to stop the 
work of the Lord. 

Bailey, sitting in her mother's lap, 
is talking quiedy to herself. She begins 
to cry, and her mother carries her away 
as we go. on. talking about Harris. We're 
going on ''~ Scripture chase," Brother 
Weber announces. Turn to section 
111, verse eight of the Doctrine and 
Covenants. A husband and wife are 
following along on one of those fancy 
smartphones with a touch screen. She 
turns the phone sideways to make the 
words of Scripture easier to read: 
"The place wher~ it is my will that 
you should tarry, for the main, shall be 
signalized unto you by the peace and 
power of my Spirit, that shall flow unto 
you." When the Book of Lehi was lost, 
· Joseph Smith also lost his gift of being 
able to . translate the Scripture, and he 
was in despair. The peace of the Lord 
was lost to him, explains Brother Weber. 

· Brother Weber is a tall man with a 
shaven head, a smiling face, and intense 
. eyes. He spent most of his life out west, 
in San Diego and Seattle. There are far 
more members of the Church in that part 
of the country. "The culture here is not 
as familiar with Mormon philosophy and 
practice, and that's fair," he says later. He 
is a carpenter and a general contractor 
. by trade, and for two summers his 
camng was to work on the rebuilding of 
the first temple in Nauvoo, Illinois. His 
hardhat and a few of his grandfather's 
carpentering tools rest on a shelf in his 
office. Brother Weber has five sons 
the 
sixth died in a car accident-and twelve 
grandchildren and counting. 

He is directing our reflections to 
one passage from Scripture and then to 
another. Bailey can be heard bo1mcing a 
ping-pong ball on the floor in a comer 
of the room as we turn to the words 
of Paul in 1 Corinthians. Many people 
think the Church of Jesus Christ does 
not read the Bible, but its members 
indeed acknowledge the Old and New 
Testaments as the word of the Lord. See 
that painting on the far wall? The white-
robed figure among other figures on the 
stone steps of a fountain? It depicts an 
episode from the Gospel of John. 

Of course, other paintings in this 
building tell stories from th~ Book of 
Mormon. One on the first floor shows 
the white-robed figure among a group 
of people in garb resembling that of 
the American Indians. The man in white 
shows the wounds in his hands to the 
people surrounding him, who smile and 
weep. They are members of a tribe of 
Hebrews in North America to whom 
Jesus appeared after His resurrection.-
they had journeyed there from Canaan 
centuries earlier. 

Unfortunately, it's getting time· for 
us to wrap up. The prophet lost that 
peace of the Lord for a time along with 
his gift. But his gift and his peace were 
restored to him, and in spite of the loss 
of those 116 pages, the work of the 
Lord could not be stopped. "The Book 
of Lehi is gone," says Brother Weber. 
"We don't need the Book of Lehi. That 
book in front of you starts with Nephi, 
and that's where the Lord knew it would 
start." To accept that, you really have to 
have faith. 

All right, let's get a closing prayer. 
Will someone say it for us? 
-Max Ehrenfreund


**Success**
**Author:  (Not specified)**
**Page number(s): 6**

Every morning, Amos McGee politely 
asks his sugar bowl for a spoonful of 
sugar for his oauneal and two for his 
teacup. Then he ambles out the door. 
Amos is the city zookeeper, and his 
closest friends are the zoo's inhabitants: 
an elephant, a tortoise, a penguin, a 
rhinoceros, and an owL One day, when 
Amos wakes up ill and must stay home 
from work, his friends from the zoo 
surprise him at his house, passing the 
time with .him until nightfall. 

Amos and his friends live in a 
simple world of quiet pastels and soft 
sketches 
they live in a picture book. 
A Sick D~ for Amo.r M&Gee, created by 
author-illustrator team Philip and Erin g



**Roaring Brook Press: A Caldecott Success Story**
**Author: Emily Rappaport**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Stead, won this year's Caldecott Medal, 
the -country's most prestigious award 
for picture book illustrators. It is the 
third Caldecott winner to be published 
by Roaring Brook Press, which this 
year celebrates its tenth anniversary 
of producing high quality, hardcover, 
"literary" children's books. 


Though 
it 
started 
small 
in 
Brookville, 
Connecticut, 
Roaring 
Book is now an imprint of New York 
publishing goliath Macmillan. · Simon 
Boughton, Roaring Brook's founder 
and publisher, still resides in Westport, 
where he supports the local children's 
libraries 
arranging, for example, for 
Erin Stead to come speak to the lucky 
children of Fairfield County. 


Poetic picture books are Roaring 
Brook's · specialty. Its other Caldecott 
winners are My Friend Rabbit (2003) and 
The Man Who Walked Between the Towers 
(2004). First the Egg, also published by 
Roaring Brook, was a Caldecott runner-
up in 2008. 


The 
Association. 
for 
Library 
Services to Children, or ALSC, awards 
the Caldecott prize. The organization 
prescribes specific criteria for Caldecott 
winners, but Thorn Barthelmess, a career 
children's librarian cu.rrendy serving 
on the faculty of the graduate library 
school at Dominican University and the 
president of the ALSC since 2009, said it 
really boils down to this: A good picture 
book is born when "first, the people 
making the book have something to say, 
and second, they have a way to say it that 
is somehow meaningful, that has some 
kind of relationship to the story itself." 


Maybe the success of Roaring 
Brook can be traced to its small size. 
It publishes fewer books than its 
competitors but publishes them more 
carefully. Boughton likes to seek out 
authors and artists who are overlooked 
by larger operations and offer them 
an 
"old-fashioned, 
small-shop 
kind 
of attention." Boughton also credited 
Roaring Brook with having top-notch 
editors. A good children's book editor, 
he said, can read just a few words on a 
piece of paper and envision the whole 
work with illustration. A good editor can 
judge "what is going to appeal not just to 
children but also to the people who put 
picture books in the hands of children." 


Roaring Brook has maintained its 
focus on picture books at a time when 
teen fiction is receiving most of the 
youth publishing industry's attention. 
The exact reasons for the teen fiction 
phenomenon are debated in the industry, 
but kids are undeniably starting to read 
black-and-white fiction at a younger 
age. As a result, Boughton said, "the old 
fashioned traditional picture book has 
gotten squeezed." 


Still, the picture book remains an 
indispensable literary genre. And in 
terms of child development, picture 
books teach concepts like colors and 
the alphabet as well as lessons in 
emotions like friendship, love, and anger. 
''Whatever emotion you want to name, 
there's a picture book that deals with it,'~ 
Boughton said. 


In Barthelmess's estimation, "really 
genius picture books" are ones that play 
around with the relationship between 
text and illustration 
the ones in which 
the words tell one story, the pictures 
tell another, and there's a third story in 
the words and pictures together. As an 
example, Barthelmess likes to discuss 
1996 Caldecott winner Officer Buckle and 
Gloria. Officer Buckle is a safety officer 
whose lectures to schoolchildren go 
from being dreaded to loved after he is 
assigned a police dog, Gloria. The text 
suggests that he's giving safety tips and 
the kids are really enjoying it, but the 
picrures show that while he is presenting, 
Gloria is behind him, goofily acting out 
his words. The text tells his story. The 
pictures tell hers. The book is complete 
only when the two are fused. 


Picture 
books, 
Boughton 
said, 
tend to succeed in the "space between 
the words and the pictures," not on the 
strength of one or the other. The whole 
of a picture book is greater than the sum 
of its parts. 


And they add up to a lot, Ba.rthelmess 
explained. ''You're beginning to lay the 
foundation, the scaffold, . for deeper 
literary understandings and investigation 
throughout the rest of their life," he 
said. ''You don't sit a three year old down 
and say, 'We're going to read A Sick Day 
for Amos McGee so you'll be ready to read 
Hamlet later.' But in fact that's what's 
happening." 


Boughton told me that illustrated 
picture books become art objects as 
well as literature 
and when you hold 
it in your hand, Sick Day does feel like 
a work of art. Words aside,. the pictures 
are lovely. The turde carries Amos's 
teapot and cup to him on his back, the 
scarf-clad rhinoceros holds out a tissue 
on his horn, the penguin watches his red 
balloon float toward the moon as his 
friends sleep piled up beneath him. The 
words tell us that Amos says goodnight 
to his friends, but they cannot capture 
the way Amos rests his hand on . the 
elephant's trunk, rubs his toes against 
the rhino's snout, or holds the penguin 
under his arm as they crowd together on 
the bed before sleeping . 


Artists are embracing Photoshop 
and other digital tools, incorporating 
them into their illustrations. Many 
picture books are now available · for 
iPad and other electronic devices. But 
in Sick Day, all of the illustrations were 
hand-sketched, hand-carved, and hand-
painted. As Barthelmess put it, "They're 
painterly. They're intended to look 
personal, like a human made them." 


Above all, books like this are one 
proof of Barthelmess's belief that 
there will always be people who "are 
committed to the beauty of an honest 
story." Sick Day is, as Boughton put 
it, "a book about friendship, a book 
about having the day off, a book about 
going somewhere." Timeless themes, in 
literature and in life. 


---,Emi!J Rappaport


**Yale's Sacred Harp Singers**
**Author: Rachel Lipstein**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

Nota Bene 


Yale New Haven Regular Singing, 
the University's Sacred Harp singing 
ensemble, does not perform. Instead, 
its members sit in a hollow, democratic 
square, sopranos facing basses, tenors 
facing altos. Each singer is a listener, as 
well as a musician. 


The group ranges from ten to 
twenty undergrads, graduate students, 
and New Haven community members. 
Founded about a year ago by Ian Quinn, 
a professor of music theory, the group 
chatters familiarly as they wait in the 
hall for a course section to vacate their 
meeting room in William L. Harkness 
Hall on Wall Street. Some are clearly 
regulars, and others, like me, are here for 
the first time. 


In 
eighteenth-century 
New 
England, Puritans began Regular Singing 
to encourage the community to learn to 
read music and thereby. renew religious 
devotion. The usual way had been to 
pra~tice in unison a rote repertoire of 
only a handful of tunes each Sunday. 
These revivalists founded pedagogical 
singing schools, and around the turn of 
the nineteenth century, invented shape-
note music notation. From do to do, each 
syllable had a shape. La, fa, and mi were 
transcribed to the page as tiny, stalked 
squares, triangles, and diamonds, nested 
between the black bars of the staf£ To 
me, musical notes have been just dots 
on a page ever since I quit the trumpet 
in fourth grade. I can see how the 
shaped notes' simple geometry would 
make sight -singing easier and, perhaps, 
religious devotion more accessible. 


A proliferation of shape-note books 
appeared throughout New England in 
the early nineteenth century, the most 
famous of them called The Sacred Harp. 
Its tide is now the common name for 
the practice of Regular Singing. After 
many iterations and editions, the book 
is still used today. I turn a copy over in 
my hands outside room 205 of Harkness 
Hall as I wait for the meeting to begin, 
fumbling with the wide, yellow pages. 


Opening to a random page in The 
Sacred Harp, I find a song entided "Save, 
Lord, or We Perish." Below the strange-
looking notes are the words from Luke: 
"Thy faith hath saved thee; go in peace." 


Despite the message of faith, the group 
is secular. ''We sing very religious music, 
without feeling like a religious group," 
says Carson Evans '13. 


It is the music, not the meaning, 
that draws some people. Charles Biada 
'13, a self-described agnostic-atheist and 
a member of the Yale Secular Student 
Alliance, has come almost every week 
since Quinn started the group. "If 
you're going to sing old music and if 
you're only going to sing songs that 
conform perfectly to your world view," 
he says, "you're 'going to find yourself 
with very few songs to sing. And all this 
old music 
the poetry, the melodies, the 
ideas 
is way too good not to sing. It's 
simple and raw and real and beautiful." 


He adds, however, "If you as a 
singer did wish to treat the songs as a 
form of prayer at the individual level, 
the atmosphere could be conducive to 
that as well. .so it's not exactly religious, 
but it's not un-religious either." 


Quinn calls everyone to order, 
joking with them and ushering me into a 
seat in the square arrangement of chairs. 


When the singing starts, we first sing 
tunes once through "on the notes," with 
fa's, so's, and Ia's, and then repeat them, 
adding ·lyrics. The music is alternately 
fast-paced and slow-moving, and it is 
uncomfortably loud at climatic moments. 
Many singers, books propped open on 
their laps or held in front of their eyes, 
let their free hands rise and fall in time 
with the music, creating an . undulating 
line of metronomes. The fading evening 
light catches rays of dust motes through 
the high mullioned windows that look 
out onto Cross Campus, where I imagine 
passers-by hear our lilting verses. 


The practice of Sacred Harp, 
sprung from the revivalist fervor of 
the same congregants who n 1ight have 
rubbed elbows with Elihu Yale in the 
wooden pews of their spare church 
naves, eventua1ly faded from the North 
during the Civil War era. Rural Baptists 
in Alabama picked up the tradition and 
preserved it by singing the music not for 
an audience, but for God and for one 
another. Since then, Sacred Harp has 
wound its way back to this university, 
which was founded in 1701 to renew 
strict theological study after Harvard 
grew too lax and too liberal for the taste 
of some New England Puritans. 


Now, though, this narrow, vaulted 
room is hardly filled with religious 
fervor. The voices of music majors 
mingle with those of atheist ex-Jews and 
Divinity School students as they sing 
together from Sacred Harp books. 


"I feel like a great deal of Yale 
activities are very achievement-based, 
which is fine 
we achieve many great 
and 
beautiful things 
here," Evans 
remarks. "But singing your heart out is 
a nice release." 


Here, the only requisite is singing 
loudly, though the group still manages 
to sound quite beautiful. 


Coming 
together to sing centuries-old hymns 
overlapping, 
swelling 
harmonies 
makes me feel like I am sitting not in 
a classroom but ·in the crowded pews 
of a colonial church 
a noteworthy 
achievement indeed. 


-Rachel Lipstein



**Title: Alexander v. Yale**
**Author: Ann Olivarius**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
As a Yale undergraduate, I was one of the plaintiffs in Alexander v. Yale, in which a group of students sued the University after it refused to create a centralized grievance procedure for sexual harassment. Now, when such mechanisms are nearly universal in businesses and universities, the objective seems uncontroversial; even then it seemed reasonable. But Yale fought the idea tooth and claw.
Initially, we did not intend to sue. In the spring of 1977, I led a group in preparing a report to the Yale Corporation on the status of women at Yale after one decade of coeducation. When we surveyed female students, we began to hear a steady drumbeat of complaints about professors who had pressed for sex in return for better grades or access to high-level courses and in some cases fondled or raped students. It was a "dirty" problem, one nobody wanted to talk about but the women to whom this had happened were deeply upset, ashamed, traumatized. Many of the professors involved were flagrant repeat offenders, but because no one talked about their offenses, female students kept signing up for their classes. Like many others on campus, we have dear friends who, as victims of sexual assault, have been ill-served by their University. We believe that the University's mechanisms for responding to sexual misconduct can be substantively improved, and we are confident that in responding to the complaint to the Department of Education under Title IX, the University will become a safer, better place for students of both sexes. Ann Olivarius was a plaintiff in the 1977 case Alexander v. Yale. Even though the suit was all but thrown out, the plaintiffs succeeded in establishing a precedent that forced schools around the country to adopt policies to address sexual harassment. We asked her for her perspective on the complaint and on the history of sexual misconduct at Yale.


Institutionally, there was no central system for collecting complaints. If the student actually worked up the courage to tell her residential college dean or master, the usual reaction was to express sympathy, but to advise her that this was "all part of life."
We asked Yale to introduce a central grievance mechanism. The University said it would study matters, made sympathetic noises, and strung things along until those who had been pressing for reform were about to graduate; then it refused to act. Hours before my parents were due to arrive for graduation, University Secretary Sam Chauncey, with whom I had been meeting almost every week for three months on friendly terms, called me to say I was about to be arrested for libeling one of the most notorious offenders - Keith Brion, a professor of music and band director, who had assaulted multiple students and raped at least one - by reporting him to the Yale authorities. You actually can't be arrested for libel, but I hadn't gone to law school yet, and I was alarmed. I asked him if Yale was going to provide me with legal help. "No," he said. "We're supporting Keith." Yale knew how to play hardball. Its deputy director of public affairs, Steve Kazarian, told a reporter from Time Magazine that I was flunking out (I graduated summa, a soon-to-be Rhodes Scholar) and was a lesbian (I'm glad for people who are, but I'm not).
So we went to court, asking not for compensation but for a comprehensive reporting system. We pioneered a new legal approach, arguing that the pattern of sexual harassment and assault that we experienced as female students hurt our access to education and constituted sexual discrimination, putting the University in violation of Title IX. To give some idea of how far our society has come, this case was one of the first to utilize the concept of "sexual harassment." The book by prominent feminist legal scholar Catharine MacKinnon that would formally define the term was still a manuscript. We argued in our complaint, "Failure to combat sexual harassment of female students and its refusal to institute mechanisms and procedures to address complaints and make investigations of such harassment interferes with the educational process and denies equal opportunity in education." That last sentence could have been lifted out of the Title IX complaint lodged this year. Because this was a brand-new field, we had obstacles to overcome that today's complainants will not: We had to argue that students had standing to bring a suit under Title IX (that is now established); we had to demonstrate that sexually assaulted and harassed women could represent a "protected class" rather than a collection of individual incidents (they can now); and we had to show how a consistent atmosphere of sexual harassment could impact the educational attainment of women (these days, that's a gimme). The environment in the 1970s may also have been marginally harsher toward outspoken women. Keith Brion stalked me at night as I was cleaning dorm rooms to prepare for reunions. I reported this to the administration; his behavior did not change, and he kept his job. His wife LaRue was the secretary of my college master, and she threatened to tamper with my grade and scholarship applications. I received letters containing death threats, a used condom, defaced pictures of naked women, and a knife.
Our suit was thrown out on technical grounds. Mostly because all of the plaintiffs had graduated, we were found to be ineligible to bring suit, and one woman was found not to have a "quid pro quo" case because the sexual proposition she endured from a male professor did not actually result in a better grade. However, our legal argument was upheld and found wide acceptance in subsequent cases. In the next five years, hundreds of universities across the country instituted grievance procedures. Yale itself created the Sexual Harassment Grievance Board. We thought that the problem was ignorance about harassment and assault and their effects, and so a reporting system would be enough. Yet as with many other confident expectations of the women's movement, progress has been slower and more ragged than we expected. We were right that ignorance was the problem, but every new generation of women and men, it seems, must relearn fundamental notions about how to treat each other equally.
To its credit, Yale has evolved dramatically since 1977. When I go back to the University, speakers introducing Alexander v. Yale celebrate the plaintiffs, cheerfully glossing over its place on the wrong side of history. By dairuing those who brought this landmark case for its own, Yale continues its tradition as the proud alma mater of unconventional thinkers who have led social change. Indeed, Yale has produced some of the greatest forces for contemporary women's rights: Judith Butler, Hilary Clinton, and Catharine MacKinnon, who was a second-year law student when she wrote the legal theory behind our 1977 complaint, to name a few out of thousands. It is in the footsteps of these forward thinkers that I believe the sixteen co-signers of this current Title IX complaint now tread. Today's complainants, as I


**Title: Yale Timeline**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 12**

2007
forms
2010
forms to evaluate WFF report
urges formation of University
Wide Committee

2008
submits report
forms to implement the changes
proposed by the first sexual miscon-
duct committee in the interim before
the establishment of the University
UNIVERSITY
WIDE
COMMITTEE
2011
to start on July 1st

2009
forms, urging the creation of a further
committee to review sexual misconduct
education



**Yale's Sexual Misconduct Problem**
**Author: Ann Olivarius**
**Page number(s): 13-14**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Opposite page: For the past few years, Yale has formed committees to address the problem of sexual misconduct on campus.  Those who understand it, are highlighting two aspects of Yale life that violate Title IX: inadequate response to many incidents where groups of men disparage women in public with chants such as "No means yes, and yes means anal" or by stealing the T-shirts created by victims of sexual assault for Take Back the Night; and a disciplinary system that does not appear to take sexual assault seriously enough.


As for the first problem, I understand the frustrations administrators must feel as they try to regulate the activities of drunk young men taking advantage of the tolerant cocoon university life deliberately provides. Nevertheless, it is clear from the reactions to these incidents that many people think that given the great privilege of a Yale education, a little sexual harassment by frat boys in the evening is not something to make into a federal case. In 1977, we, too, were told that the occasional proposition or grope or rape was something we should simply learn to handle. Now the general public has come to agree that sexual harassment is not to be tolerated, and Yale no longer belittles victims' concerns.


But it does not seem to want to take them seriously either: It often cites a free speech argument in defense of the status quo, claiming that it would not be possible to punish the dirty mouths on campus without risking greater harms. I am not convinced by this. Yale's own policies impinge on free speech rights in this very area. Students being disciplined for sexual harassment before the Executive Committee must stay silent; whatever incident gave rise to the charge effectively disappears from the newspapers and campus dialogue. No one really knows: who are the perpetrators, who are the victims, how frequent and how serious are their crimes?


As it did in the 1970s, Yale still keeps disciplinary issues fiercely in-house. It counts sexual assaults by Yale students against other Yale students, in buildings where no one but Yale students live, apartment buildings as well as frat houses, as exempt from Clery Act reporting because they are "off campus." Yale's disciplinary and counseling systems encourage women victims of sexual assault to pursue their cases internally. Private resolution saves the University lots of bad press. Confidentiality may have advantages for many women, but for others, living on the same campus as their assailants, who are punished lightly if at all, can be distressing and traumatizing.


Change is often slow, and inertia is powerful. But more can be done. I am encouraged by the announcement of the University Wide Committee, which furthers the Alexander v. Yale plaintiffs' decades-old goal of a single, campus-wide reporting system for sexual misconduct. Hopefully, this Title IX complaint will accelerate the speed and expand the scope of such action. One potential approach could be a major report on the status of women and the state of sexual harassment drawn up not only by Yale students and staff but also outside experts and observers not dependent upon Yale for promotion. These outsiders could also form the backbone of a standing committee on equality issues, meeting regularly and reporting in public annually, able to hold up a mirror to Yale to test whether its actions are meeting its intentions.


Yale College Dean Mary Miller wrote in her recent email to the Yale community: "I can also say that what I have heard about the substance of the complaint does not reflect the Yale that I know." I am sure she is sincere. I think the project at hand is fundamentally an educational one, as it was in 1977, to encourage people to reexamine their assumptions, so they see the evidence around them in a different light. I have had two daughters go through Yale, and we have hired dozens of Yalies as legal assistants for our law firm. I regret to say that the complaint does reflect the Yale many of them have known. On the Juicy Campus Web site several years ago, a man who said he was in my older daughter's college discussed in detail how he planned to rape her, and another commenter compared the "fuckability" of my two daughters. Yale did not defend Juicy Campus, but like the excrement I received in the mail, these anonymous comments were symptoms of the large and complex problem the school still faces from misogyny. It is a problem, one that seriously affects the lives of Yale women and men.


Yale remains one of the best places in the world to get an education and to grow as a person. I am grateful to it, and so are my daughters. But Yale can get better. The University should embrace the complaint as an opportunity to become a pioneer for preventative programming and resources. Yale has the opportunity to be a model of transformation. As it does in many other areas, Yale should aim to lead.


Dr. Ann Olivarius is a 1977 alumna of Branford College and the founding partner of McAllister Olivarius, an international law firm in London.


**Healthier Options in New Haven's Bodegas**
**Author: Jake Conway**
**Page number(s): 15**

New Haven's bodegas are interested in offering healthier options, but economic conflicts of interest might delay concrete changes.


On our way over to the West River neighborhood, a former Italian enclave that is now predominantly black and Hispanic, Stacy Spell and I drive past a dilapidated storefront, its windows boarded up, its sidewalk dusty with the residue of melted street snow.


"See," Spell beams at me, "the potential is here." Spell is the head of the West River Neighborhood Services Corporation, which has recently partnered with the Community Alliance for Research and Engagement (CARE) at Yale's School of Public Health to consult with local bodega owners about developing new business models that promote healthier options for consumers.


A former New Haven Police Department detective for over twenty years, Spell has the rough-and-ready wit and steadfast commitment to his community of the best law enforcement officers. He has lived in West River for most of his life and does not plan on leaving, despite some bad memories here. His nephew, an innocent bystander, was killed in 2000 at the package store next to the George Street Deli.


Like most convenience stores, George Street Deli has a few aisles stocked with basic groceries - rice, dried beans, flour, sugar, canned goods - as well as household cleaning supplies, a rack of chips and nuts up front, a bank of candy and gum under the counter; and a register encased by protective glass where lottery tickets and cigarettes sit. There are no fresh fruits or vegetables for sale, except for potatoes and onions and maybe a few plantains. The only other perishables are bread, milk, and whole milk.


Bodegas fill a key niche in the urban ghetto, especially in "food deserts" like New Haven, which has a core population of 130,000 but no supermarket. (A Stop & Shop is slated to open in the former Shaw's location this month, but many will still lack access to groceries.)



**Bodegas and Food Justice in New Haven**
**Author: Jake Conway**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
A CARE study in the fall of 2009 found that, of the 104 stores mapped in the Fair Haven, West River/Dwight, Dixwell, Newhallville, Hill North, and West Rock neighborhoods, almost two-thirds were bodegas. Of the stores surveyed, 63 percent sold mostly junk food, while only 32 percent sold fresh fruit and 38 percent sold fresh vegetables.


When we get into the store, Spell points out a shelf of fourteen varieties of potato chips and cheese doodles, all available for $0.75. In the suburbs they only have $0.99 bags of the same brands, he tells me a calculated disparity in price and marketing. He grabs a handful of the bags, an iced-tea beverage, and three snack packs of crackers, throws them on the counter, and after a quick exchange of bills hustles me out of the store. As we get into his Chevy Suburban, he nods at the bounty at the bottom of my seat. "Look," he says, "for three dollars you get a feast of junk."


Bodega means wine cellar in Spanish, but the closest thing you'll find to wine at George Street Deli in New Haven is wine-flavored cigarillos, which kids buy for a dollar and change so they can use the wrappers to smoke marijuana.


Spell explains that narcotics dealings happen frequently under the well-lit storefronts and neon signs because dealers can stymie the police by pretending they're there to shop. He says that bodega owners are often Hispanic, South Asian, Middle Eastern and new to the neighborhood, so racial tensions run high. Kids come to the bodegas for after-school snacks. Single mothers and elderly people many of them without cars do their grocery shopping at bodegas because of their ubiquity. The intersection of Norton, George, and Derby streets alone, for example, has three.


Spell's feast may have been cheap, but shopping at bodegas isn't necessarily a bargain. Not only is the food unhealthy, but without the big-box economies of scale of a major grocer, bodegas have virtually no buying power in the distribution market. Besides soda, chips, and other products bought straight from the manufacturer, the food sold in bodegas is bought from wholesale retailers like BJs, Sam's Club, Costco, and C-Town Supermarkets and then resold.


This means that some staple grocery items are marked up steeply. A pound of Domino granulated sugar costs $4.49 at George Street Deli. By comparison, that same product costs $1.45 at Stop & Shop in Hamden.


For bodega owners struggling to make it, the price disparity is just the nature of the business. The owner of George Street Deli, Ram Regmi, moved to the United States from Kathmandu, Nepal, two years ago. He has owned the store for the last year. When pressed about the mark-up on his products, Regmi emphasized that his was a convenience store, not a supermarket. Most of his profits come from candy, cigarettes, and especially soda. By contract, most bodegas get free refrigeration units from big-name beverage companies like Coca-Cola and Pepsi in return for stocking them with the companies' brand products an unsettling irony given that one major reason bodega owners don't sell fresh food is the cost of refrigeration.


It's not the most lucrative business. Although Regmi takes in about $1,500 a month in Pepsi products alone and sells them at around a fifty percent margin, he still only makes about $0.75 for every 2-liter bottle sold. For chips, margins are even tighter, a few pennies on each bag. "I cannot get a lot of money from here," Regmi lamented. "It's not enough."


Anett Quintero moved to New Haven sixteen years ago from Tlaxcala. Together with her husband, Quintero manages Dollar Haven Deli for her husband's uncle, who is from Morocco (she makes nine dollars an hour to her husband's ten). Dollar Haven is situated in a dangerous area. Last year, a man came in to rob the store while Quintero was leaving and stabbed her coworker.


Dollar Haven Deli opened just last year. It is located across the street from George Street Deli, and the only thing differentiating it from its competitor is a large neon street-side sign falsely advertising "Pizza by the Slice." Quintero's uncle-in-law wants to expand to include a deli with prepared foods but has not yet done so because of the cost. Next to the would-be pizza counter a greyish puddle of mop water has collected in a buckle in the tiling.


Dollar Haven, like George Street Deli, offers little selection. There's no fresh meat or produce. For fruit, there's only canned papaya and pineapple.


I asked Quintero if it was a problem that so much of the food sold at Dollar Haven is processed and packaged. Before Quintero could answer, a young woman came up to the counter and bought for $0.50 apiece four cigarettes, or "loosies" as they are called, which Quintero had unwrapped from a box. "For me, it's not a problem," she said after completing the sale. She was holding her infant daughter in her arms. "I don't give my children that kind of food. For the customers, it's a problem. They don't have other options around. They can only get pizzas and sandwiches. Or they come here to buy groceries whatever they can find." Quintero has a car and gets her groceries from Shop Rite in West Haven. Many others do not have that option.


Food access is a problem not only of mobility but also of price. "They don't have enough money to buy real food like chicken, rice, and eggs," Quintero said of her neighbors.


Social entrepreneurs and community activists have recognized bodegas as an opportunity as well as a problem. When James Johnson-Piett, an entrepreneur specializing in urban development, came to campus on January 17 to give a talk sponsored by the Yale Sustainable Food Project, he noted the potential of bodega owners to effect real change in inner-city communities. "Bodega owners have the best potential to be 'change agents' because they have such an investment in their consumers," he argued at the talk.


Johnson-Piett's company, Urbane Development, LLC, based in Philadelphia, works to educate bodega owners on how to streamline their operations so they can make money without selling inferior products, in particular by helping them integrate technology into their businesses. Many currently use haphazard accounting methods shoeboxes, for example, to store cash and receipts.


"We have to educate the bodega owner. You can increase your sales by selling a better product, and it will benefit you and your community," Spell said.


Part of the Healthy Corner Store Initiative he helps to run with CARE is consulting with five stores about stocking and marketing healthier food like low-fat milk, whole-grain snacks, and fresh fruits and vegetables. The goal is to develop individualized plans with an emphasis on in-store marketing techniques for stocking and displaying these foods, like shelving bottled water at eye level and creating posters indicating which products are junk food.


How bodega owners will receive these suggested changes is another question. Many bodega owners have little to no formal education, awareness of urban public health problems, or training in financial management.


Whether consumers will purchase these healthier but often more expensive products is also a concern. "When you can walk in with a dollar and buy a drink, a bag of chips and piece of candy, what kid is going to spend more on healthier foods?" Spell asked.


Isadora Tang SOM '10 has been trying to answer that question. MyLu Foods which she founded in May 2010 with a $15,000 Yale Entrepreneurial Institute Summer Fellowship and the goal of developing and marketing a healthier version of Lunchables to sell to New Haven youth has struggled to balance its social mission with the demands of running a small business.


"Our whole reason for being," Tang said, "is that we want to serve underserved communities that don't have the option of healthy food." But bodega owners tend to be wary of her product, which, despite its obvious benefits, retails at $1.99 a marked increase over a $0.50 package of Hostess cakes.


When bodega owners like Regmi are trying to support themselves and their families, low-income shoppers have little recourse to healthier foods. As Johnson-Piett noted, "When we talk about food justice, it distills down to a simple thing poverty."


jake Conway is a senior in Davenport College.


**A Night on Patrol**
**Author: Sanjena Sathian**
**Page number(s): 18**

We walk in a sharp diamond formation. Rocky reminds me repeatedly to stay on his inside, away from the street, where action is most likely to break out. To patrol tonight, we've driven to the Crown Street nightclub district, an area close to Yale that I know well, but still Rocky has built the formation of hunting men in red jackets around me I'm small, I'm a girl, and it is my first patrol.


As we approach corners, Rocky holds up a fist to tell us to "post up" we snap to attention and stiffen our bodies



**Title: A Night on Patrol with New Haven's Guardian Angels**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
against a brick wall or a fence while 
Rocky peers around the corner ahead. 
Once he has determined that the coast is 
clear, he motions to us to move along. At 
the corner outside the Chinese takeout 
restaurant my roommates frequent, he 
invites me to look around with him-
. 

after he's done the preliminary check, 
of course. He points to a stoop under 
a yellow restaurant awning about thirty 
feet away. 

''We'd look in places like that," he 
says. To Rocky's trained eye, any activity 
in side alleys, in slightly hidden stoops, 
or behind dumpsters is an immediate red 
Bag. He tells me he simply strolls up to 
the suspicious person and suggests they 
move out. If a drug dealer or a prostitute 
or an addict has been spotted, he or she 
is likely to want to move on wimngly, he 
MAY 2.011 
.. 

explains. 
I look hard into the shrouded 
corners of each alleyway we pass, willing 
my eyes to see what Rocky sees, but 
I'm getting nothing. I stick to watching 
Rocky's massive shoulders lumber in 
front of me. 
Rocky and Taxi split up the group, 
sending Ninja, Tank, and Cisco one 
block ahead of us while we follow. 
Splitting the formation, they explain, will 
ensure that if the other three patrollers' 

presence sttrs up any acttvlty or nervous 
responses, our half of the patrol can 
follow up in their rear. But on a quiet 
night like this one, Ninja, Tank, and 
Cisco seem to be strolling casually ahead 
of us, leaving me to chat with Rocky 
and Taxi. As we walk, Rocky makes eye 
contact with almost everyone we pass~­espedally 
the 
occasional 
homeless 
person slouched against a building. Eye 
contact is part of the mission. Rocky 
wants the patrollers' red jackets to 
become a familiar, comforting presence. 
Rocky says patrols like this 
with a lot 
of walking and very little action 
are 
part of the job. Too often he's seen 
young men who join expecting a fight 
every night grow disappointed when 
they discover the job is usually quiet. 
Still, he reminds me to stay on the inside 
of the group. 
&~f something happens, you need 
to be able to get back so we can protect 
you," he says. 
Rocky, like all· the Guardian Angels, 
goes by a nickname. The true identities 
of the Angels must remain private, he 
tells me, because of the work they do. 
They are the eyes and ears and arms 
of neighborhoods all over the world-
and dn1g dealers and gang members 
can never be allowed to know their 
real names. On the ·street and even at 
the headquarters, they all address one 
another by nicknames, and that is how I 
will refer to them here. 
spent four nights patrolling the 
ew Haven streets with the cit:fs 
own Guardian Angels, an international 
nonprofit vol1inteer safety patrol that 
fights Clime unanued. The Guardian 


Angels' red berets and jackets have been 
seen around the city since 2007, when 
they first set up a chapter in New Haven. 
It was the Hassidic Jewish population in 
the Edgewood community that called 
in the Angels. Violence had escalated to 
the point that community leaders had 
begun arming themselves, ready to take 
the situation into their own hands. When 
Curtis Sliwa, the founder of the original 
Guardian Angels 
chapter in 
New 
York, swept into town at the request 
of Edgewood rabbis, the New Haven 
chapter was born. He appointed leaders 
from other Connecticut chapters to 
help develop the New Haven group and 
collaborate with the Jewish community 
for its protection. The results are clear. 
Rocky reports that the Edgewood 
neighborhood has seen a sixty percent 
They are the 
eyes and ears 
and arms of 
neighborhoods 
all around the 
world 
ar1d clrzzg 
dealers ar1d gar1g 
rne111bers car1 
never be 
owed to 
ow 
their real naa1es. 

reduction in crime since 2007. 
Today the New Haven chapter of 
the Angels is one of 143 across fifteen 
countries. Originally founded in 1979 in 
New Yo~ the Angels have gained an 
international reputation for _wallcing the 
line between s 
ero and vigilante. 
Every week, the Angels gather in the


--- Page 20 ---

apartment that acts as their headquarters 
to plan their route before heading out 
for patrol. The rooms are sparse and 
the building is old, but Rocky's "office" · 
has been arranged to look as official as 
possible. He speaks to me from behind 
a desk littered with flyers advertising the 
Angels. It's important to self-publicize, 
Rocky tells me, because they're still 
building up the chapter and he needs 
as many eyes on the streets with him as 
possible. 
It has proven difficult for Rocky 
to find people willing to give up their 
nights on a weekly basis to roam around 
the city preventing crime. Most Angels 
members' careers last only a few years, 
Rocky says, but lately the New Haven 
chapter has retained patrollers for longer 
periods of time. Still, the guys have 
their own jobs, Rocky tells me, and they · · 
want to spend their time off with their 
families, so doing more than one patrol a 
week can be difficult. 
The evenings spent out on the 
. . 
· cold streef corners of New Haven are · 
unpleasant at times, Rocky tells me, but 
they're worth it. Rocky keeps in mind · 
the famous Queens murder of Kitty 
Genovese in 1964, which took place 
only blocks from where he once lived. 
Genovese was stabbed repeatedly in the 
middle of the street, and as she cried 
out, begging for help, no one came to 
her rescue. No one called the police until 
it was much too late. When witnesses 
were asked later why they . did nothing, 
their response went down in history: "I 
didn't want to get involved." 
Rocky reminded me of this incident 
on more than one occasion, shaking 
his head with disbelief each time. That 
won't happen on his watch. 
Modern psychologists know the 
Kitty Genovese story well, because it 
illustrates the "bystander effect" 
idea that the more people there are 
watching a crime, the less likely it is 
that someone will stop the events from 
unfolding, because it's' . someone else's 
problem. But to the Angels, everyone 
else's problems are their problems. 
''They love us here," Rocky says. 
As he watches the streets, I can see 
-
his shoulders stiffen with pride. This 
fraternity of unarmed strangers has 
been welcomed, first into the Edgewood 
community, . and 
slowly 
block 
by 
into _New Haven, spotting the 
streets with their red berets. 

The Angels have 
gained a reputation · 
for walking the line 
between superhero 
and vigilante. This 
-· fraternity of 
unarmed strangers 
has been welcomed, 
first into the 
Edgewood 
community, and 
slowly block by 
into New 
Haven, spotting the 
streets with their red 
berets. 

n my second patrol with the Angels, 
I meet them at the headquarters, 
only a fifteen-minute walk away. "It's the 
X location," Rocky says of this building, 
explaining to me that I must be careful 
not to reveal where we are. He laughs. 
I can't tell how serious he's being, so I 
smile and write it down obediently. 
*** Street. X Location. 
Rocky is wming to let me come to a .. 
"bad neighborhood," but only if ·I make· 
an effort to blend in. I know he's referring 
to the bubblegum-pink notebook I tried 
~ 
to bring on our first patrol. He'd looked 
at it suspiciously and told me to find 
something less conspicuous. This time 
I've brought a slim black notebook that 
can fit in my pocket, and I'm wearing 
as bulky a jacket as I could find. I stuff 
my hair into a hat and zip up the jacket .. 
And this time, Ninja suggests I dress to 
match them. Over my enormous down 
jacket, I put on one of the Angels' bright 
red numbers, and I even get a beret. I 
know I look ridiculous. After a laugh, 
Ninja offers, c~t least you'll be warm." 
I waddle obediently to take my place 
in the middle of the group. This time, 
Tank is tasked with walking with me and 
~eeping me on the inside. 
Tank's son, Cisco, walks ahead of 
his father. He's still the new recruit, so 
Ninja has to supervise him. 
When we're posted up at a corner, I 
tty to talk to them both. 
"So you're the father-son team, 
huh?" 
Nods. 
c"What made you want to join -
your dad, Cisco?" I flash him my best 
attempt at a charming smile. At twenty-
something he's easily the youngest of the 
group, and he looks me up and down 
with obvious discomfort while the other 
men have only kindly, paternally smiled. 
ccHe saw a lot of what's going on in 
the streets and he was sick of it," Tank 
answers. "He's good 'cause he knows 
the streets and stuff, he knows what's 
. happenin' out there." 
ccHow do you know so much about 
it?" I direct my question to Cisco again. 
ccHe's seen it, he's been there," Tank 
responds. 

I give up. As I walk with Tank, he 
is happy to chat with me. Unlike his .. 
son, he's no sparse conversationalist. 
He praises Cisco, explaining to me that 
though his son stayed out of trouble, 
enough of his friends fell into gang 
culture that he knows the street calls 
of the major gangs and can spot telltale 
markers of gang activity that the others 
might overlook. Tank's not the first 
Angel- to brag to me about street smarts 

As soon as I met Taxi, I asked him how 
he got his nicknatne. 
eel used to be a bounty hunter," he 
shrugged, a cocky grip spreading over 
his face. 'cr did my stakeouts out of a 
taxi cab." Ninja, who got his name from 


--- Page 21 ---

his affinity for rnartial arts as a child 
growing up . in public housing projects, 
also works as a p_art-time bounty hunter, 
hired out by local police forces in nearby 
Meriden. One night as we stood outside 
Dunkin' Donuts on a brief patrol break, 
he mm nbled that sometimes it's hard to 
be unarmed and to know that he can 
at most make a citizen's arrest 
when on 
patrol with the Angels. 
"What would you do if someone 

you were trytng to scare away JUSt came 
at you with a knife or a gun?" I asked. 
'Td have to walk away,'' he said, his 
features screwed up in a grimace. Ninja 
is a man who prefers to fight back. 
Tank raises his chin in fraternal 
greeting to everyone we pass with a 
gruff ''How you doin', guy?" A few 
people sto..p him, and they exchange 
a handshake o.r a hello. Some of the 
people we pass respond with a nod or a 
"Glad to see you're out here, man." 
Not everyone greets us warmly. 
We pass three teenagers gathered on a 
doorstep who avoid eye contact with 
MAY 2011 
Tank, only responding in grunts to his 
customary "How you doin'?" greeting. 
''I always try to say hello and how 
you doin'," Tank says. ''Even if they're 
not gonna respond. Those guys were 
gang members 
but at least I got their 
respect." 
I peer cautiously back behind me, 
looking for some telltale brands or 
marks on the boys. 
"How'd you know they're gang 
members?" I ask. 
''You 
could 
tell," 
Tank 
g• ins 
knowingly at me. ''They was definitely 
packin'." 
One tiny, 
elderly woman 
sees 
us moving in double formation (two 
vertical lines of three people each) 
and runs onto her porch. As she steps 
into her doorway, beckoning us over, 
a few people move shiftily out of the 
doorframe. 
"Can you do something about this?', 
she begs, gesturing to the people cotr•ing 
and going. ''They smokin' the crack pipe 
in the house all the rime, I got nenas and 
they little and the smoke's comin' under 
my door." 
Her English is rough and broken, 
and Tank, who is Puerto Rican, switches 
into Spanish. I join them on her doorstep 
and ask her in Spanish why the police 
haven't helped her. 
''I call the~ all the rime, every day," 
she tells me. "Nunca /Iegan, nunca 1/egardn." 
They never come, and they're never 
gomg to come. 
Tank promises her that he'll put in 
a call for her. As we walk away I ask him 
why he thinks he can get the cops to 
come if she's been ca11ing .repeatedly. He 
looks at me importantly. 
''Because the Guardian .Angels 
know now." 
I turn, craning my neck around 
Tank's broad shoulders and bulkv frame, 
watching the woman .retreat into her 
house. 
Weeks later, when I inquired with 
Rocky about the woman's status, he 
didn't know if the police had responded. 
On this second night, I can see the real 



**Title: Angels on the Street**
**Author: Sanjena**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
'
•
l
danger the Angels are looking out for.
But I can also see how Tank's chest
puffs up with manly pride as he brags to
me, the way he keeps straightening his
uniform and adjusting his beret. Angels
are eyes on the street, but they also want
eyes on them.

At the end of that night's patrol,
as I'm. waiting for a cab to come pick
me up from the headquarters back in
Edgewood, Cisco turns to me.
''Wives and sisters shouldn't have to
walk alone and be afraid, you know?" He
stares at me from.his wide dark eyes and
fixes me with a penetrating look. "That
ain't right."

It is the first time tonight that he
makes eye contact with me. My cab pulls
. up. He thrusts a large palm at me to
shake my hand before opening the cab
door for me.

ocky has served with the Angels
he was in his twenties, and
this October marked his thirtieth year of
22
patrolling community after community,
spending .nights out on cold streets all
over the northeast.

Rocky ran away from his home
·in Brooklyn at 15 and spent the next
few years of his life living with fellow
runaways · on the streets of Hell's
Kitchen, where he was a member of
an informal gang. The group of boys
lived together and looked out for each
other, occasionally getting into fights
with other loosely organized gangs and
painting graffiti around the city.

Gangs, he says, promise wayward
youths like himself love. Gangs lure in
stragglers off the street with beds to
sleep in and friends to take care of them,
and before they know it they are handed
guns and asked to do someone a favor,
to take care of something for them, to
help do their duty for the neighborhood.
Help protect the neighborhood, because
no one else is watching out.

But the Angels make no such
· promises, and they attract members
who, in Rocky's words, are seeing things
they're sick of on the streets, things
they want to stop. They're just ordinary
citizens, he says, looking to make a
difference.

Though Rocky has been in the
Angels' service for thirty years, he has
only been stationed in New Haven for
five months. He spent the last several
years moving from chapter to chapter
around Connecticut and New Jersey,
reviving chapters that had fallen by
the wayside. The New Haven chapter
is· Rocky's latest project, and he aims
to train a squadron of committed and
talented patrollers in two years. Despite
Rocky's years of commitment, he is
still a volunteer, and so are all the other
patrollers. Though a cabinet-maker by
trade, Rocky has had trouble finding
work in cabinetry, so now he's working
m construction.

Rocky's scrapbook holds archives of
thirty years of the organization's history.
I page through headlines calling the


---

**Title: Angels on the Street (continued)**
**Page number(s): 23**

Angels heroes, proclaiming them saviors
of neighborhoods and cities. Between
pages of worn newsprint and pictures
"I used to be a
bounty hunter,"
Taxi shrugged,
a cocky grin
spreading
over his face. "I
did n1y stakeouts
out of a taxi cab."
of muscled men clad in red, I find a
large clipping of a beautiful woman with
porce1ain skin and billowing hair
Lisa
Sliwa, Curtis's ex-wife.
She was
also an Angel. One
snapshot showed her g1aring from
between two tough-looking Latino men,
all three with arms folded. Her mouth
turned up just the slightest bit at the
corners in a nearly unnoticeable grin. I
tried to imagine her on the streets with
the Angels, and how it would feel to be
at the front of the patroL

night of my last patrol with the
Angels, we settle on the couches
while
Rocky
reviews
the
training
essentials that he's gone ov~r every night.
Obey orders,
community outreach,
formations
by now, I know the patrols
well enough to feel like I can zone out
as Rocky says it all again. Crime's down
sixty percent since 2007, he reminds
us. Tank and Cisco aren't here tonight,
to my dismay. Tonight's plan is to do
some recruiting in the downtown area
after a quick sweep near the Edgewood
headquarters. He adds that the recruiting
seems to be going well thus far
and
that next week, a woman will be corning
to join the Angels on patrol after seeing
MAY 2011
..
their fl.yets in a laundromat. In the back
corner of the room, a whiteboard looms
large with words "GOAL: RECRUIT 30
MEMBERS BY AUGUST 12, 2011."

Before letting me out of the Angels'
sight, Rocky wants me to have some self-
defense techniques to use if something
were to happen. I stand up obediently,
leaving my recorder and notepad on the
couch. He tells me to come at him. I grab
him by the collar of his grey hoodie,
waiting for bini to show ·me some new
ways to bust free. Startled, he looks up
at me and glances around to the other
Angels watching us in the middle of the
room.
''Whoa
she's kinda strong!"
They laugh.

The demonstration is quick
just
a few quick tips on how to get out of
various choke holds, many of which a
five-foot, hundred-pound girl would
· not use effectively on a man Rocky's
size in real life. After I struggle free, I'm
instructed to knee my attacker in the
groin and run and scream.
''It's basic stuff that any woman
should know," he tells me. "Or guy."
The Angels nod somberly.

As I make the walk home that night,
facing the streets on foot this time,
without a taxi to carry me home safely,
I practice a fe~ of the moves again,
im · ·
myself screaming in the face
of an attacker and sprinting away. I can't
help but laugh at the pictnre. But Rocky's
right
staying safe is a serious matter,
and even if these vigi1antes sometimes
talk bigger ta1k than I'd expect from a
group of unarmed, beret-topped men, I
feel somehow more protected knoMng
they're keeping an eye on the streets.
I wa1k alone, but two blocks over, I
know, the Guardian Angels are watching,
making their weekly rounds.
Sanjena
· is a sophomore
in Morse College.
,. , . . ,
. , .
.
. .
A
' .
. -;
. . . :
\
t
t l
J
~=
ll'f@ Chaptil Str~t
. . ~ _: :
- ....
=~~ .
x·
;;,
~~~
:::;
••
~:. -
N~, ·
CYOti<~l J
. · ~
~£.i ~~~:1~ ~tlfu)\'ftl}
;R= ·.-...
---=~ ~
-~ F ;.;..,.. ¥ -. :, -
~- : ' ·-.
- -
-
,.,_)P.J;N l;;~ f.RY{),\Y
SUN-'rltU:RS 1 i:: lO· Alt- 10 PM
F.Rf& S.AT~ tl • ; , ~ .. H); ~P~
tBiUk\K TlhlE M··f l : R , 5: :ltl
23



**Title: Asian Tiger Mosquito Invasion**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 24**

Travelln Inside used tires, t e
1110s ulto threatens to invade
Connecticut .

ohn Shepard spends his summers .
hunched
over
a
microscope,
identifying mosquitoes trapped in
Connecticut mosquito surveillance
pt'ogram.
Shepat'd
oversaw
identification and sorting of 115,725
mosquitoes last year. The year before it
was closet' to three hundred thousand.
He examined probably forty thousand
under the microscope himsel£

Connecticut is home to over fifty
different species of mosquitoes, thirty
of which at'e .commonly found in the
statewide traps. But one morning in July
2006, Shepard saw a distinct, uncommon
species under his mic£oscope. Silvery
white stripes lined the thorax and legs of
the black insect. Shepard had seen such
markings before and quickly identif1ed
the species as Aedes albopictus, the Asian
tiger mosquito, a carrier of numerous
deadly diseases. He checked the sample
container to see where the mosquito had
been trapped. He knew the place well.-
the Exeter Enet'gy Tire Incinet'ator in
Sterling, Connecticut.

Shepat'd shared his discovery with
his colleague D.r. Theodore Andreadis, ]
the chief medical entomologist at the
~
Connecticut Agricultut'al Experiment u ..
Station in New Haven, whose office .§
adjoins the lab where Shepat'd works.
THE NEW ]OURNAL



**The Asian Tiger Mosquito Invasion**
**Author: Jeffrey Kaiser**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
I 
By Jeffrey Kaiser 
Andreadis, who oversees the surveillance 
program and has extensive training with 
mosquitoes, had seen the species before 
and was well aware of the threat caused 
by its growing global presence. 


Mosquitoes are picky eaters. Of 
all the species of the insect found in 
Connecticut, only a few are known to 
feed on humans. And.readis and the 
~ 
surveillance tea• n have analyzed the blood 
meals of mosquitoes and have isolated 
the species that .readily feed on humans. 
They vary according to geography 
but include Ochkrotatus sollicitans, Aetks 
vexans, Aetks japonitt~s, Culex pipiens, and, 
of course, Aedes albopictlls. Shepard 
MAY 2011 
has extensive 
experience: a 
number of close-up pictures on the 
feature his hand being fed on by various 
mosqwtoes. 
The 
tiger, though, is different 
from the others. It feeds on anything 
that moves. In populated areas it is a 
serious human pest. ''It willliteraUy hunt 
you down," Shepard explained to me. 
Andreadis knew that the As1an tiger 
mosquito had caused an outbreak of 
disease marked by high 
fever, nausea, vomiting, muscle pain, 
ras~ and joint pain 
on the French 
island of Reunion the year before. Well 
over a hundred thousand people fell 
sick. More gravely, the Asian tiger is a 
vector of Dengue virus, a disease that 
has recendy reemerged in the United 
States. In its most severe form, which 
is called Dengue hemorrhagic fever, 
patients experience flu-like symptoms at 
the onset, followed by severe bleeding 
from the nose and mouth and bleeding 
under the skin. In laboratory studies, the 
Asian tiger has successfully carried five 
viruses, including Eastern equine 
and yellow fever. Shepard 
warned that it could also be a vector for 
Japanese encephalitis as well as other, 
yet-to-be-discovered viruses. And this 
pernicious creature had just arrived in 
Connecticut. 


Batrling mosquitoes and defending 
against the diseases they carry is a 
grueling counterinsurgency, and the 
intelligence gathered at the Experix nent 
Station is vitally important to public 
health. When the researchers there isolate 
a virus, they immediately notify officials 
at the Department of Health. If a virus 
is regiona1ly concentrated or if a certain 
mosquito species is showing signs of 
increased viral activity, the program can 
advise local officials to spray insecticides 
or initiate other control mechanisms. 
According to Shepard, the goal is to 
prevent outbreaks not just of West 
ile but of any of the 
mosquito-
home viruses found in the state. The 
surveillance program's breadth across 
the state also allows for the 
·.totu 
of new and invasive species, like the 
stan nger mosqwto. 
ot even the most sophisticated


he researchers at the Experiment 
Station are all too familiar with the 
dangers of mosquito-born diseases. Culex 
·pipiens, a less dangerous vector than the 
Asian tiger, was the species. responsible 
for the 1999 West Nile epidemic in New 
York. "It was insane. It was 24/7. It was 
very explosive," recalls Andreadis. News 
coverage was around the clock. Trucks 
were spraying insecticide all over New 
York City. Calls were coming in daily to 
the station reporting dead birds 
crows 
were fa11ing out of the sky. 


No one knows for sure how the 
virus got to the United States. Because 
the first human cases were in Queens 
near two airports, the disease likely 
arrived on an airplane. Andreadis guesses 
that the culprit was an infected mosquito 
on a commercial transcontinental flight. 
But it could just as well have been an 
infected human returning from abroad, 
or a bird or mosquito in a ship's hold, 
he said. The virus that was eventually 
isolated matched most closely a strain 
that had caused a minor outbreak among 
an elderly population in Israel in 1957, 
so there was some speculation that it 
originated there. 


In the first chaotic days and weeks 
of the outbreak, though, no one realized 
that the New York City cases were 
actually West Nile. The virus had never 
been seen in the Western Hemisphere 
before, and no labs in the United States 
had West Nile isolates to test against. 
The New York virus was assumed to be 
St. Louis encephalitis, another disease 
for which Culex is the primary vector. 
On September 4, 
1999, John 
Anderson, 
then 
director 
of 
the 
Experiment Station, read a story in the 
New York Times under the headline, 
''Encephalitis Strikes 3 People, 1 Fatally, 
In Queens, City Says." It was a Saturday, 
and Anderson was working on houseflies 
somewhere in Eastern Connecticut. He 
heard similar reports of an outbreak on 
the radio and realized that something 
was up. ''I got a call that night asking-


-
if I wanted to' sit in on a telephone call 
the next day, Sunday, with the CDC and 
people from New York and other health 
directors from the region." (The CDC is 
. . 
. 
the federal Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention.) · Anderson called a 
technician in his lab to see if they had 
ever grown the·St. Louis encephalitis cell 
line. He needed something against which 
to test any viruses he might isolate. After . 
the call he went out to Greenwich and 
Stamford to set mosquito traps. 


Anderson couldn't simply walk 
iiito people's yards and place traps on a 
Sunday. in Greenwich, so he requested 
a police escort. None of this was new 
''Bird brains, 
they're not ve 
large. A crow 
brain is about 
like that size,'' 
Anderson tells 
me. ''And I just 
cut it in pie slices 
and isolated virus 
in eve 
section.'' 
to Anderson. Two years earlier he had 
established 
a 
small-scale 
mosquito 
surveillance program in Connecticut 
after an outbreak of Eastern equine 
encephalitis on the Rhode Island border. 
But this time, acquiring information 
about the spread of the virus would be 
critical to prevention efforts, and the 
Experiment Station had the regions' only 
facilities able to test mosquito samples 
and track the outbreak. 


A few days later a local Greenwich 
paper 
published 
story 
about 
Anderson's activities. That day he got 
a call from the ln.Qis Arden Golf Club 
in Old Greenwich. Members there were 
worried and had begun to complain of 
mosquitoes. The course thought it would 
be best to set a trap. ''And it was there we 
isolated this virus from two speci~s of 
mosquitoes," Anderson says. 


Meanwhile, crows continued to 
die, and one dead bird made it from 
the coastal town of Norwalk to the 
University of Connecticut in Hartford. 
Scientists there knew Anderson was 
working on the outbreak, and they 
called to offer him the bird's brain. "Bird 
brains, you know, they're not very large. 
A crow brain is about like that size," 
·Anderson tells me, holding up a hand 
with thumb and forefinger touching. 
''And I just cut it in pie slices and isolated 
virus in every section." Eventually 
Anderson tested the three separate virus 
isolates 
the bird and two mosquito 
species 
against antibodies from St. 
Louis encephalitis and found that the 
public health community's prior thinking 
had been wrong. The disease was not 
St. Louis. The team then analyzed the 
structural makeup of the virus's RNA. 
The sequence most closely matched a 
sequence of West Nile virus that had 
been isolated and recorded years earlier 
in Romania. · 


After scrambling day and night to 
pull a paper together, Anderson's team 
published their findings in the December 
1999 issue of Science. Anderson slides 
his copy across the conference room 
table where we've met. The abstract 
warns, "If established in North America, 
WN virus will likely have severe effects 
on human health and on the health of 
populations of birds." 


At that point, no one knew 
whether or not West Nile would 
successfully overwinter. In the earlier 
outbreaks in Europe it had failed to 
survive colder winter temperat:uies, and 
most in the United States thought the 
disease would not reappear the following 
spnng. 


But by 2003, "we had the largest 
epidemic of a mosquito-borne disease 
ever in North America," Andreadis said. 
The years from 2004 to 2008 were the 
"establishment phase:" The number 
of human cases settled to around a 


In order for an epidemic to occur, 
not only must a virus arrive in the United 
States, but it must also find a viable 
~osquito vector species that feeds on 
mammals 
more specifically, humans,-
and · that lives in urban and suburban 
areas. Otherwise, the virus poses no 
threat to humans. 


Mosquitoes 
are 
finicky 
where they breed. Some prefer natural, 
dry habitats, such as holes and crevices 
in trees and rocks. Others are simple 
container breeders and are 
happy 
anywhere water pools. Culex pipiens 
prefers artificial containers or stagnant 
pools with organic content, and it is 
highly tolerant of polluted water. In 
short, Culex mosquitoes love basements, 
ce11ars, and sewers 
all the byproducts 
of densely populated urban areas. 


In his office at the back of the lab, 
Dr. Andreadis pulls up a map on his 
computer screen. It shows the state of 
Connecticut with black circles marking 
sites where West Nile has been isolated 
from mosquitoes (seventy percent of 
West Nile isolates come from Culex 
pipiens). The do_ts are clustered along 
the I-95 corridor, a stretch that includes 
the cities of Greenwich, Stamford, 
Bridgeport, and New Haven, and 
around the state capital of Hartford. 


In Culex pipiens, West Nile found the 
perfect vector. 


edes albopictues 
the Asian tiger-
y 
prove 
itself 
similarly 
menacing vector for disease. No one 
knows more about the threat it poses 
than Dr. Paul Reiter, now the director of 
the Insects and Infectious Diseases Unit 
at the Institut Pasteur in Paris, who was 
the first person to find an Asian tiger 
mosquito in the Western Hemisphere. 


Since that fateful afternoon in a 
Memphis, Tennessee, cemetery in the 
fall of 1983, Reiter has tracked the global 
iovasion of Aedes albopictus into 36 states 
and nearly as many countries. 


Reiter stumbled into a life devoted 
to mosquitoes while working on a 
dissertation on the biochemistry of 
schizophienia. "I got very bored," he 
told me over the phone from his home 
in Paris. He later joked that he was 
tired of shuttling bottles of urine from 
schizophrenic patients to the lab for 
analysis. "There was a kind of Peace 
Corps type advert to go work in the 
Cayman Islands in the mosquito control 
unit. So I thought I'd do that for a year, 
and I got stuck." After the Cayman 
Islands, Reiter relocated to the CDC, 
where he was working in 1983. 


That year, the CDC sent· Reiter 
to Tennessee 
to 
study 
St. 
Louis 
encephalitis. He spent his days collecting 
mosquitoes for virus isolation in the 
fertile breeding grounds of culverts and 
storm sewers. Reiter, who is six feet tall, 
found it incredibly challenging to work 
hunched over in the five-foot diameter 
sewers. So he invented a trap that would 
allow him to collect Culex mosquitoes 
in open areas. He baited the trap with 
a putrid infusion he made by steeping 
hay in water for about a wee~ which 
was particularly attractive to Culex 
females ready to lay eggs. Reiter's trap 
is used today by mosquito survei11ance 
programs around the country, including 
Connecticut's. 


One evening Reiter got a call from 
his colleague Dick Darsie, the man 
tasked with sorriog through all Reiters 
mosquitoes before testing. ''He said, 
'Paul, you'll never guess what I've found 
in your collections.' And so I tried to 
guess and of course I got it wrong," 
Reiter recalled. Darsie had found an 
Asian tiger mosquito. Reiter didn>t doubt 
him Darsie 
knew 
his 
mosquitoes 
well and had worked on the species in 
South Asia years before. Reiter took the 
discovery to the Tennessee Deparunent 
of Health but was offered no support 
for further research. 


Reiter found no more albopictus 
for the next few years, and eventuaJly 
almost forgot about the species. He still 
wonders how that one mosquito got to 
Memphis. His only theory is that it came 
in a mail shipment from Houston. Both 
Houston and Memphis have large mail 
sorting facilities; Houston is a major 
port, and, as it later turned out, it was 
albopictus' probable point of entry when 
it eventually took hold in the United 
States. The mail facility in Memphis was 
just across the street _from the cemetery 
where Reiter trapped that first mosquito. 


"I looked at the place on Google 
the other day and could see the exact 
spot where the trap was," Reiter told me 
almost nostalgically. ''Perhaps we can 
put a plaque there one day." 


n 1986 the CDC asked Reiter to go 
down to Houston. Reports were 
coming in of a new mosquito, and 
descriptions suggested it might be 
the Asian tiger. "Obviously I was the 
expert," Reiter joked, '1>ecause I had 
caught one mosquito." 


In Housto~ Reiter and a colleague 
spent most of their time exploring tire 
dumps. Tire piles are just about the 
perfect breeding sites for mosquitoes. 
When water gets in a tire it never leaves, 
and it collects organic material that is very 
attractive to female mosquitoes. They 
were finishing up at a site one afternoon 
when a pickup truck came down the road 
and stopped about 150 yards from where 
Reiter had parked. Two men got out and 
started rummaging through the tire pile. 
Reiter watched as they started throwing 
some of the tires he had marked into 
their· truck. Reiter had planned to come 
back to check on breeding mosquitoes, 
so he went up to them and asked what 
they were doing with the ri res. The 
tires, it turned out, would be shipped to 
Mexico and Guatemala. ''I thought, 'Oh, 



**Title: The Asian Tiger Mosquito**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
for crying out loud, they're going to be 
shipping out the mosquitoes as well'," 
Reiter recalled. ''All of the tires had 
water in them and all of them had lots 
of mosquitoes." 
Reiter learned that the men's 
company also imported tires from Japan: 
''And that's how I stumbled on the fact 
that there's this incredible trade in used 
tires." 
The Japanese were exporting used 
tires to some 140 or 150 countries. 
The United States exported them 
to over a hundred countries. Tires 
were being shipped to the United 
States for recapping many countries 
have regulations that allow tires to 
be ·recapped or retreaded. Airplane 
tires can be recapped nine times, 
Reiter learned. And so a trade in what 
appeared to be useless used rubber was 
in fact a lucrative global industry. "The 
Europeans were importing them. I told 
them that they should not, but of course 
nobody stopped, and now Europe is 
full of albopictus. Oh, it's everywhere. It's 
in about four or five countries in West 
Africa. It's certainly in Lebanon and 
Syria. It's going to be universal, I think." 
its entrance into the . port of 
Houston, the Asian tiger stalked its 
way east and up the Atlantic seaboard. 
Today, the front line in the battle against 
the species lies somewhere along the 
Connecticut-New 
York-New 
Jersey 
border. At the Experiment Station in 
New Haven, Shepard and Andreadis are 
on high alert. 
When the two found the first 
in 
Connecticut in 
2006, 
they were not surprised. Andreadis 
guessed almost immediately how it 
· 
''There was no question it was 
by the transportation of used tires," 
he tells me. All mosquitoes collected 
in the surveiJlance program's traps 
identified and sorted by species 
~d trap location, and the Asian tiger 
mosquito that Shepard had identified 
was from a trap at the Exeter Energy 
Tue Incinerator. The only question 
that mattered was whether or not the 
mosquito would establish a permanent · 
28 
• • 
. ·-.:. . 
::-
. , 
' 
· presence in the state. 
To do so, the Asian tiger's eggs 
needed 
to last 
through 
the 
cold 
Connecticut winter. After the first 
Asian tiger was found at the Sterling tire 
plant, survei11ance staff returned to the 
facility weekly for the remainder of the 
season. They found that the mosquito 
had successfully entrenched itself in the 
woodlands surrounding the tire facility, 
and females were beginning to lay eggs in 
traps that Andreadis's team had placed. 
When they returned in early summer of 
2007, though, they found no larvae in 
the traps 
the eggs had died during the 
winter 
and no host-seeking females in 
the surrounding woodlands. 
The results of their study, which 
Andreadis published in a 2009 paper in 
the Journal of the American Mosquito 
Control 
Association, 
identified 
a 
temperature barrier. South of the barrier, 
where the average January temperature is 
above zero degrees Celsius, the mosquito 
had successfully established itself. In 
New York City, where the average 
January temperature is 0.14 degrees 
Celsius, albopictus resides in every major 
_.;:: 
.-: -
:::::-:~·-· 
. 
'•, 
. ·-
borough. Other surveillance programs 
had found the species overwintering in 
New Jersey and Pennsylvania, but not 
north of the zero degree barrier. A line 
on a map to mark this barrier would rise 
through central Pennsylvania, stretch 
across northern New Jersey, and follow 
the eastern seaboard along the coast 
of the Long Island Sound out to sea. 
Average January temperatures all across 
Connecticut are just slightly below the · 
zero degree mark. 
According to Andreadis's paper, the 
Sterling tire recycling plant often receives 
tires from out of state. The Asian tiger 
likely arrived inside a tire on one of 
these shipments, probably from New 
Jersey. (Exeter Energy is undergoing an 
acquisition and declined to comment 
for this article.) Though the mosquitoes 
have so far failed to survive the winters 
here, average global temperatures are on 
the rise, and if Connecticut warms even 
slightly, we may well find the Asian tiger 
residing permanently in our backyards. 
John Shepard explained all of 
this to me in a sma11 closet at the end 
of a long hall on the -second floor of 
THE NEw JouRNAL 


**Title: The Asian Tiger Mosquito (continued)**
**Page number(s): 29**

the Slate laboratory building of the 
Connecticut Agricultural Experiment 
Station. An independent state agency, 
the Experiment Station is cramped onto 
a _small campus in the midst of the leafy 
residential Prospect Hill neighborhood 
just minutes north of Yale. All states have 
experiment stations, and Connecticut's is 
the oldest, founded in 1875. The station 
·conducts scientific research focusing 
on agriculture and the environment. A 
scientist fu:st bred hybrid corn here in 
1914. Since its founding, the station's 
motto has .been "Puu ing Science to 
Work for Society." 
Shepard brought me to this closet-
"insectary" is the preferred term 
after 
his colleague, Dr. Melissa Hardstone, 
came to tell him that she was "going to get 
the guinea pig." I asked what this meant, 
and Shepard led me into the cramped, 
fiuorescently lit, artificially humidified 
room. Here, the researchers keep live 
colonies of eight species of mosquito 
in wire-mesh cages 
including certain 
species not kept in colonies anywhere 
else in the country. 
At the . end of a shoulder-height 
shelf against th~ back wall, one of 
these cages contained a guinea pig with 
a shaved back. The white rodent was in 
its own wire cage, unable to move and 
subject to hundreds of Aedes aegypti 
mosquitoes. Its back was covered in 
small red bites. Hardstone insisted 
that the guinea pig doesn't mind the 
treat:Inent and, in fact, eagerly shuffles 
into its confining cage each time it is sent 
to be fed on. The feeding protocols, I 
~ 
was assured, are approved-by the United 
States Departtnent of Agriculture and 
the Institutional Animal Care and Use 
Committee. The guinea pigs are used 
only for the species of mosquitoes 
known to feed on rnammals. For others 
that prefer-birds, a sma11 button quail is 
used instead. 
On a 'lower shelf ·on .· the adjacent 
wall, another cage was clearly labeled 
Aedes albopictus. 'Ibis is one of the 
country's few colonies of the Asian tiger. 
These colonies are an important 
weapon in the arsenal of mosquito 
containment. Because the Experiment 
Station also has an enormous collection 
of live viruses and pathogens in a high-
safety laboratory, researchers can study 
these diseases and the way they spread 
through their insect vectors. 
When mosquitoes bite us, most of us 
are annoyed at the itch, but few are likely 
to worry about deadly tropical diseases. 
During the 1999 
est Nile 
outbreak, news 
coverage was 
around the clock. 
Trucks were 
spray1ng 
insecticide all 
over New York 
City. Calls were 
coming in daily 
to the station 
repo~ing dead 
birds crows 
were falling out 
of the sky. 
Shepard, because of his exposure to the 
myriad threats, tends to dwell on these 
more morbid possibilities. <'I know when 
my kids get bit it's probably nothing," 
Shepard told me. <'But I'm not in unune 
to worrying. And my wife will say to me, 
~e we safe here?"' 
• .. 
d.ecot:ations 
on 
wa11s 
of the two main lab romus of 
the Experiment Station's Center for 
Vector Biology and Zoonotic Diseases 
(the officia1 home of the mosquito 
survei11ance program) tell almost every 
detail of the story of 
ile. There 
are 
newspaper 
clippings, 
cartoons, 
magazine 
covers, 
fridge 
magnets 
encouraging citizens to report dead 
birds, and a taxidermied crow. 
The spread of West Nile through 
Culex pipiens tells us much about the 
potential dangers of the Asian tiger 
mosquito. 
Put simply, just as Culex 
pipiens was waiting and ready when West 
Nile arrived, so too may the Asian tiger 
be waiting and ready when Dengue 
arrives. And if the connection seems 
far-fetched, consider the fact that Culex 
pipiens made its continental leap on 
shipping vessels 
likely wooden saiJing 
ships that crossed to the Americas in the 
seventeenth or eighteenth century 
just 
as the Asian tiger snuck into Houston 
and now into Connecticut inside tires. 
For the scientists who work in 
this field, it is not a question of if but 
when. For now, our best weapon is 
good intelligence, for which we can 
thank the Experiment Station. The 
lessons it learned in dealing with the 
West Nile threat 
in ultimately failing 
to contain the virus, despite Anderson's 
breakthrough in successfully identifying 
it 
have · been 
institutionalized 
the form of the massive surveillance 
progra 111 and better communication with 
public health officials. <'It sounds terribly 
trite, but expect the unexpected," warns 
Reiter. "Who the heck knows what's 
going to come in next?" Though we 
will surely deal with another deadly 
mosquito-borne outbreak, we will be 
better prepared for the next epidemic, 
even if the disease finds a vector in the 
Asian tiger mosquito. 
Jeffrey 
is a junior in 
Saybrook College. 
29 


**Title: A New Haven Promise**
**Author: Jacque Feldman**
**Page number(s): 30**

A New Haven Promise sign hangs outside High School in the Community 
.-• . 
. By Jacque Feldman 
-..; .. 0 · 
.. .... 
.. -? 
~.·· . ,. 
~--.:
-
...t ·- · 
'A ~ 
1 
-. 
~ "' ./'~~ • 
• 4(' 
1'-
• .~ • 
. . .. 
.,... .. 
..... 
..c: 
p.. 



**Title: A Long Mid-Morning Class Period**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 31-32**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
long 
mid-morning 
class 
period, which lasts from 10:05 
to 11:35, can be tedious if you're 
a student at Wilbur Cross, a public high 
school in New Haven. On a rainy day in 
early April, class was especially tedious 
for one st:Udent, whom I will call Shawn. 
He was working in the school library's 
computer room with his junior English 
classmates, and he was supposed to be 
researching a presentation on ''Battle 
Royal," the first chapter of Ralph 
Emson's 1952 novel, Invisible Man. 
It was a long period, the day was 
dreary, and Shawn hadn't done the 
MAY 2011 
• 
reading. Worse, his teacher, Michael 
Robin, was pushing him awfully hard, 
even though few others seemed to 
have done the reading either, and even 
though Shawn was one of five students 
in a class of eleven to have arrived in the 
classroom before the late bell rang. As 
the class period began, Robin explained 
that he wanted students to fill in gridded 
worksheets . with information about the 
story's author, quotations from the text, 
and their own analysis. 

By 10:38, the students had settled 
in the library with their Web browsers 
open. A few minutes earlier, Robin's goal 
for the class had dropped to recording 
and analyzing four quotations apiece, 
but even that much seemed insufferably 
boring to Shawn. He copied and pasted 
the story he was reading from a Web · 
. site to a Word document, fiddling with 
the font. By 11:22, Robin was begging 
Shawn to find just two quotations, but 
Shawn was still reluctant. 

By 11 :30, having tried every trick he 
could muster, having been called a racist 
by Shawn, who is black, Robin, who is 
white, settled on a pep talk. 'cy ou're way 
too talented to just blow it off," he told 
Shawn. Dropping to his knees beside 
Shawn's chair, he asked Shawn to spend 
two minutes finding just one quotation. 
"Can you do that?" 

In the end, Shawn threw up his 
hands, saying impassively to his friend 
beside him that he didn't care. It didn't 
matter. After class, his mood was 
markedly low, quiet. Shouldering his 
backpack, he told me he wasn't on his 
A-game. 

While Shawn left the library as 
quickly as he could, I asked his classmates 
whether they had ever heard of 
something called New Haven Promise. 
Yes, they had. But they didn't think that 
many people they knew would actually 
qualify for the scholarship program, 
which will begin this September to fund 
tuition at any in-state public university 
for graduates of 
ew Raven's high 
schools who meet its requirements for 
good behavior, academics, and residmcy 
in 
ew Haven. Most people, they told 
me, weren't focused on their grades-
only on passing enough classes to 
graduate high school. 

Students who spoke to me at four 
of New Raven's high schools said 
some of their classmates find it hard to 
understand why they should work at all 
in high school when they can't afford 
college anyway. "Some of these kids 
are slipping," said Diana Hernandez-
Degroat, a guidance counselor at High 
School in the Community. "The cost 
of college, some of them think it's too 
expensive and they can't go." Those 
behind New Haven Promise plan to 
change this. They have stated a goal to 
halve New Raven's high school dropout 
rate in five years by allowing all students 
to think of college as a possibility. 

Any student who lives in New 
Haven and attends one of the city's 
public schools is eligible to receive 
Promise funds, scaled according to how 
long they've studied in-district 
and 
so long as they have an attendance rate 
of 90 percent, complete forty hours 
of community service, and maintain a 
3.0 GPA. The program wi11 be phased 
in gradually, with current high school 
seniors receiving 25 percent of tuition 
and current freshmen, 100 percent. (It 
will take into account current seniors' 
senior-year GPA only and only the hours 
of community service they've completed 
since 
last 
fall.) 

The 
Community 
Foundation for Greater New Haven has 
taken on the program's operation from a 
small office with a handful of staff and 
a busy whiteboard, and Yale University 
will guarantee the scholarship's funding 
for four classes of students, for up to 
four mi11ion dollars each year, after 
which the program will be reviewed 

The program aims not only to provide 
students with college funding, but also 
to revitalize the city's economy. 

The greatest hope for Promise is 
that it will create a college-going culture 
in New Raven's schools, explained 
Emily Byrne, the program's director. She 
believes that the program's requirements 
will incentivize students to stay in school 
and sr 1 ive for a B average. ''We're like the 
golden carrot for these kids," she said. 

In the field of education, creating 
incentives 
can be 
tricky. 
Recently, 
Harvard economist Roland Fryer tested 
• what happens when children are paid 
to learn. When Fryer's team paid Dallas 
second graders two dollars for each book 
they read, students read many more 
books, and their reading comprehension 
scores increased measurably when tested. 

In New York and Chicago, however, 
where Fryer's team told students they'd 
pay them for good grades or test 
scores, students didn't do any better on 
standardized tests (though their grades 
did go up becau.se they attended class 
more regularly). 

· "If students lack the structural 
resources or knowledge to convert 
effort to measurable achievement," 
the 
study 
concluded, "or if 
the . 
production 
function 
has 
important 
complementarities out of their control 
(effective teachers, engaged parents, or 
peer dynamics, e.g.) then incentives will 
have very litcle impact." 

If you're a student at one of New 
Haven's public high schools, you might 
be able to rise to the challenge set by 
New Haven Promise, but you might not. 
Even if earning Promise funds seems an 
attractive enough incentive to tug you 
through 13 years of schooling, you'll still 
· need to be helped along the way. 

It was hard for me to tell what 
exactly made Shawn so resistant to work 
that April morning. Similarly, what it will 
take to create a true college-going culture 
in New Haven is a riddle 
the one that 
those behind New Haven Promise hope 
to solve. As its first students to benefit 
from Promise prepare to go off to 
college this fall, New Haven is poised to 
test their answer. 

'' 
WILL 
BE 
THE 
MOST 
SIGNIFICANT 
ANNOUNCEMENT EVER MADE 
IN NEW HAVEN," ·wrote Jessica 
Mayorga, then New Haven's director 
of communications, in a press r~lease 
before the program was announced last 
November. 

'Who's that district that people 
look to, to be a model? We think that · 
it's New Haven," Byrne told me. ''With 
32 
this program, with Promise added to 
. it, it becomes a beautiful example of 
what education reform can be." She 
. . 
. 
referred to School Change, the package . 
of reforms rolled out by Mayor John 
DeStefano, Jr. in February 2009. 


**Title: New Haven Promise and School Change**
**Page number(s): 32-33**

mayor has repeatedly stated a goal to 
make New Haven the nation's best urban 
school district 
a tall order, given that 
the city's public schools have long rested 
at the bottom of the achievement gap 
between rich and poor school districts i..~ 
Connecticut, which has the widest such 
gap of any state. The state's neighbors-
New York, Massachusetts, and Rhode 
Island 
all won funds in 2010 from the 
federal Race to the Top initiative, but 
Connecticut was not even a finalist. 

This is where the district stands. 
89 percent of its tenth-graders scored 
below the goal level in Science on the 
Connecticut Academic Performance Te.st 
in 2009, with only 6 percent of school 
districts statewide scoring the same or 
worse. 83 percent of a representative 
group of New Haven students qnaHfy 
for 
free or reduced-price lunches, 
compared to 30 percent statewide. (The 
percentage of students eligible for free 
or reduced-price lunches is often used 
as an indicator of economic need in a 
district.) New Haven's schools have a 
dropout rate of 27.5 percent, meaning 
that of all the freshmen who matriculate 
at one of the city's high schools, about a 
quarter won't graduate. 

It was 
as 
he was 
beginning 
his 
campaign for reelection to an 
unprecedented 
ninth 
term 
that 
DeStefano, who sent his own soris to 
Wilbur Cross, first described what's 
become his signature education reform 
initiative. New Haven Promise is only 
one aspect of School Change, which 
also includes strategies for ranking 
schools into tiers, evaluating teachers 
administrators, 
engaging 
parents and members of the community 
education 
reform. 

DeStefano's 
administration succeeded in reaching 
a new, reform-n•inded labor contract 
with the teachers' union in 2009 
a 
victory when in other districts across the 
country, and famously in Washington, 
D.C., disagreement between teachers' 
unions and cities has caused standstill in 
· reform efforts. 

"New Haven Promise, to me, could 
really only be a meaningful and optimal 
program if it occurred in the context 
of a set of investtnents, efforts, and 
energy," DeStefano told me at his office. 
Wherl. 'the success of Promise is brought 
· up for review in four years, its funders 
will also evaluate the success of School 
r1-.~~~.:. 
1 ~~~~~..;~~ •hat one cannot 
'-" .LAu..&..&fS ..... , 
.l.lo..I..&.\J VY ~.A. f) 
""""" 
succeed without the other. 

For now, before -anything has been 
reviewed, proponents of School Change 
and Promise are hopeful "There's no 
question that we are a national example 
right now," said Garth Harries '96, 
assistant superintendent for portfolio 
and performance management and a 
recent hire to New Haven. "In many 
ways, we think we are leading the state, 
and leading the country." 

This is not the first time in its 
history that the leaders of New Haven 
have considered their city a model for 
the nation. In the 1960s, Mayor Richard 
Lee wanted to rejuvenate a city that 
was stuck after the war with decreased 
industr ia1 production and no place to 
put its newly swollen population, many 
of them blacks recently arrived from the 
South, seeking work. Lee's projects to 
THE NEw JouRNAL 


**Title: The Education Project**
**Page number(s): 33**

n Monday, Tuesday, and Thursday 
afternoons, sunlight falls in long 
rectangles onto an array of music 
stands, two grand pianos, and a smooth 
hardwood floor in the recital room 
at the Neighborhood Music School 
on Audubon Street. The space comes 
alive when students spill in. Having 
completed the half-days they spend at 
various public high schools in the New 
Haven area, they assemble for meetings 
of a class called The Education Project. 
It's the most recent in a string of classes 
on social justice theater taught at the 
Educational Center for the Arts, a half-
day arts magnet school. The class, led by 
Peter Loffredo, a' teacher at ECA for 14 
years, teaches students to use hip-hop 
theater to examine education. Over the 
course of the setnester, they create and 
perforn1 a full-length play on the theme. 

Loffredo 
taught 
other 
classes on soc~ justice theater, with 
themes ranging from hepatitis C to 
homelessness, but he's never seen a topic 
provoke more passion in students than 
this one. 

~'They're more enthusiastic 
about this because it speaks to their 
immediate needs and issues that they're 
facing on a daily basis," he told me, 
leaning on one of the pianos. Loffredo 
is an energetic man with a booming 
voice, a graying beard, and a guffawing 
laugh. To his students, he is Peter. When 
they call him Mr. Loffredo, he likes to 
Tavist ]ones rehearses his rap during Peter Loffredo's class at the 
Educational Center for the Arts. 
shout theatrically, ''Did r ••y father come 
in here?" 

"They see the flaws in the structure," 
Loffredo said, serious now as he told me 
what his students have said to him about 
uninspired teaching, shoddy classroom 
environments, and failing figures of 
authority. ''They may not be able to do 
it in schools, but they want to call the 
system on depriving them . . And they get 
frustrated when they can't." 

Loffredo and ECA have provided a 
place where they can. When I visited in 
early spring, the class had compiled an 
initial draft of their play, and they were 
at work revising it. They began class 
by clustering their chairs in a circle and 
reading aloud an outline of the sea ipt 
they'd composed jointly. Bullet points 
represented scenes, groups of scenes, or 
monologues in the fon •• of raps. Bolded 
phrases were to-dos for the session. 

-
c'C. Obama/ Bush debate- Satire-
Race to MJ Left Behind. I eah 
~· 
~ 
ed" 
revtse ~.or cotn 
y. 



**Security Profiling, Imaginary Monsters, and the SAT**
**Author: Unlisted**
**Page number(s): 34**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
-
• 
I 
(~. Security profiling (my school 
is different). . . S ecuriry Guard stops 
student, 
ub. We become monsters. Paola 
shorten, cut to point: we 
used 
to 
fear 
irnaginary 
monsters; now we become 
them (foreshadow "I don't 
like my school" creatures)." 
(Fight with Teacher Taking 
Bets., 
One student, Esther Rose-Wilen, 
who goes to Wilbur Cross, explained to 
another student her idea behind a scene 
she'd written. "If they did treat us like 
humans,. we would be more motivated 
and stay in school." The student 
listening, Tavist Jones, a senior at High . 
School in the . Community, told her he 
understood and wouldn't cut too much 
from her scene 
he would just try to 
make that point "less vague." 
· Later, Jones stood behind a grand 
piano wrapped in a quilted cloth cover, 
quietly testing the lyrics of a rap he'd 
written for the · play, a beat issuing 
steadily from his open computer, one 
hand p9ised alertly on the keyboard. 
Jones was one of several seniors I spoke 
with who . are on track to be among 
the first to receive funds from New 
Haven Promise in a few months. Jones 
has been accepted to the University of 
Connecticut and other state schools, but 
he plans to attend DePaul University in 
Chicago if he is accepted. Like some of 
his peers, Jones does not think that 25 
percent of in-state tuition will be enough 
to influence his college decision. Then 
again, his financial situation is special. 
As he is a ward of the state, his tuition 
. will be paid for completely at in-state 
colleges and up to $21,000 at colleges 
out of state. 
"I hate 
school," he muttered 
offhandedly, showing me the rap, which 
. described his experience taking the SAT 
in a Yale classroom. His face softened, · 
and he added with irony, "I mean, life's a 
giant test anyway, so you never really get 
out of school." 
"I think everyone here is excited 
that we get a chance to speak our minds," 
he said. "This is our chance to rant about 
it. School is our life right now, and we 
don't get much of a chance to talk about 
it. Whatever is good, we're going to blow · 
it up to ~e extreme, because there isn't 
much good, we feel. Whatever's bad, 
we're going to kill it." 
Characters in the working version 
of The Education Project script include 
"bored, uncaring teacher," 
"racially 
profiled black girl trying to escape 
sp,ecial ed," and "Megan, 13, cries a lot, 
disabled, has panic attacks." Jones told 
me he hopes the Board . of Education 
will be in the audience when he and 
his classmates perform their play-
not so that the board members will be 
embarrassed, but so that "maybe if they 


--- Page 35 ---

feel what we say is good, they can bring 
it up" and bring about change. 
'' 
me, Promise is very much 
a 
wealth-creation 
· strategy," 
Mayor DeStefano told me at his office, 
"and ultimately, a middle-class creation 
strategy." Not only is the program a 
long-term investment in the economic 
potential of New Haven students, it 
could also stimulate property demand in 
the city. 
It is based on an initiative launched 
five years ago in Kalamazoo, Michigan, 
which 
has 
since 
inspired 
similar 
programs in eighteen other cities cross-
country. Unlike New Haven Promise, 
the Kalamazoo Promise stipulates no 
cutoff GPA. Students need only live in-
district to receive the scholarship, which 
can be put toward vocational school as 
well as college. "In Kalamazoo, it's about 
transforming the entire community, so 
we believe it should go to all students," 
said Bob Jorth, director of Kalamazoo 
Promise. 
The 
Kalamazoo 
Promise 
is 
intended 
transform 
its 
host 
community 
mostly 
by 
encouraging 
parents of schoolchildren to move in. 
Census data showed an increase of five 
percent in the population of Kalamazoo 
County from 2000 to 2010, and an 
increase of 22 percent in enrollment 
in Kalamazoo Public Schools since the 
Promise program began in 2006. These 
initial data are hopeful, but it remains 
to be seen whether what worked in 
Kalamazoo will work in bigger, grittier 
New Haven. 
DeStefano 
first 
read 
about 
Kalamazoo Promise in a Wall Street 
Journal article in 2007, though it 
had generated chatter in the city's 
offices prior to that. When Byrne first 
considered pushing for a 
program in 2008, she and her colleagues 
surveyed New Haven students who had 
dropped out of college and found that 
financial difficulty was often the reason 
they were no longer in school. 
proliferation 
of 
programs 
also 
reflects 
national 
paradigm 
shift 
in 
thinking 
MAY 2011 
education reform. Rather than simply 
aiming to graduate students from high 
school, educators must instead focus 
on preparing them for college so they 
can succeed in an economy where a 
college degree matters more than ever. 
President Barack Obama has teminded 
the country that over the next ten years, 
nearly half of all new jobs will require 
some post-secondary education, and he 
89 percent of 
tenth-graders 
scored below 
the goal level in 
Science in 2009. 
0 
y 6 percent of 
school districts 
statewide scored 
the same or 
worse. New 
Haven's schools 
have a 
dropout rate of 
27.5 percent. 
awarded $125,000 of his $1.4 million 
Nobel Peace Prize award to College 
Summit, a nonprofit that seeks to bring 
curricula about post-secondary p 
· 
into public high schools. 
At a Chubb Fellowship lecture at 
Yale shortly after New Haven Promise 
was announced, DeStefano described 
"a new way of life in 
ew Haven where 
our children are born knowing that they 
can go to college and that it is expected 
that they go to college." 
That 
dream 
spreading. 
"I 
haven't seen this community react as 
enthusiastically to anything else I've seen 
in New Haven," said Will Ginsberg, 
president and CEO of the Community 
Foundation for Greater 
ew Haven, 
which administers New Haven Promise. 
At the center of public enthusiasm, 
Gins berg said, is 
Yale 
University's 
agreement to underwrite the program. 
But it's created a mild controversy among 
some Yale students, especially those who 
were participants in the Teacher Prep 
program that was cut by coincidence in 
the same week Promise was announced. 
"If this were an example of Yale caring 
about education, this is a very odd way 
to show their priorities," said Brian Bills 
'12. Bills heads the Ulysses S. Grant 
program, which places Yale students 
as teachers in New Haven during 
the summer, and he believes that the 
University should be using the money 
instead to fund research on education 
or professors who will turn more Yale 
students into teachers. 
Yet the people 
interviewed 
were less concerned with whether 
Yale decided to fund Promise with an 
eye toward its public image and more 
excited about the program's potential 
impact on the students it will help. Yale's 
investment in New Haven has grown 
since Yale President Richard Levin took 
office simultaneously with DeStefano-
New Haven Promise being a sign of 
the times 
and most are happy about 
the opportunity this has presented to 
New Haven's youth, especially if the 
University decides to fund Promise past 
these first four graduating classes. 
''There's a lot of obstacles here," 
Ginsberg added. ''No one's pretending 
school change wil1 be easy." These 
obstacles include the slowness of state-
level education reform, according to 
Ginsberg; the difficulty of publicizing 
Promise among a community not entirely 
used to focusing on college, according 
to Byrne 
and what to do when even a 
Promise worth thousands of dollars isn't 
enough to get some students to earn 
B's. 
' ' 
he 
problem 
why 
didn't 
make the requirements 
is I 
got lazy," said Jerell Emery, a senior at 
Wllbur Cross High School who hopes to 
earn a degree in sociology and become 
a _social worker. He wants to go to


--- Page 36 ---

' ' . 
' 
Graffitti outside High School in the Community . 
. 
college in-state, is waiting to hear from 
Westerm and Southern Connecticut 
State University, and says that Promise 
would be a great help to his family, but 
Emery's 2.2 GPA will bar him from 
receiving Promise funds unless he is able 
to it nprove it before the end of the year. 
We were siu ing in the Career 
Cente.t; an open room dotted with 
cotnpute.r clusters, students gossiping 
about college acceptances, books titled 
School to Work, and UConn Huskies 
paraphernalia. It was the same day the 
Class of 2015 learned of its acceptance 
to Yale, but Emery was still unsure of 
his plans. 
~~ started being distracted too easy, 
to roam around the hall a little too 
much 
I was going through things a 
litde bit. It's a phase a lot of people go 
through. But I think that if somebody 
were to really, like, stick on me, and really 
be in my hair a lot, then I would meet the 
requirements." In the parlance of Fryer's 
study, Emery lacked the tools necessary 
36 
to convert his effort to achievement. 
Byrne and her team hope to create 
support systems and build on plans for 
systemic .reform in order to make the 
.requirements of New Haven Promise 
simple and accessible, but until that 
happens, they may have on their hands a 
case like that of Fryer's students in New 
York and Chicago. 
Emery transferred to Cross before 
his junior year in order to play on its 
basketball team. He remembered having 
trouble with the transition to Cross, 
which is one of two high schools :ranked 
in the lowest tie~ Tier ill. Students 
at Cross who spoke to me were coolly 
aware of this classification, but they 
also had their own ways to describe the 
barriers that mvironment posed to their 
success. ·~ this school there's a lot of 
" 
"d F 
1 
f 
peer pressure, sal 
~•• •e.ry. 
ot o 
people make you try things, do things 
.that you really don't want to. A lot of 
kids in my classes are immature, and they 
talk over the teachers, and the teachers 
sometimes give up, and stop explaining 
the stuff, which I don't like, because I 
want to learn and it affects my grade." 
Promise would serve as a good 
incentive for Emery, if only he could 
.figure out how to earn it. "When people 
talk to me about college, I really listen, 
because I really want to go to college." 
For his classmates who are slipping 
the fastest, however, Promise may not 
matter at all. 'Teople who really don't 
care about school don't really care about 
going to college. When they hear about 
this New Haven Promise thing, they're 
just like, ~whatever. It is what it is. I 
ain't really looking forward to going to 
college."' 
Emery would not place himself 
in that group. ''I know a lot of people 
that are ttying to turn their whole lives 
around, ttying to get their GPA up, and 
trying to really get this Promise thing, o.r 
8 
~ 
a scholarship to go to college, but they 
.. 
can't because their GP 
was a little bit 
if 
too low, and they kind of messed up 
THB NBW JOURNAL 



**Title: The Promise**
**Author: jacque Feldman**
**Page number(s): 37-39**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
-
their fu:st two years of high school." He 
told me that he'll tty to work as hard as 
he can to earn Promise funding before 
the school year is out and that it will 
be the biggest challenge he's ever faced. 
Students 
at 
Cross 
face 
many 
challenges, most of which are rooted in 
poverty, said Michael Robin, a second-
year teacher of the lowest track of 
English at Cross. "You can rattle off a 
laundry list. Drugs, and pregnancy, and 
gangs, and taking care of your siblings, 
and taking care of your children ... " 
''These may be cha11enges, but we 
cannot allow them to be excuses for 
underachievement," Robin clarified in a 
~ 
subsequent e-mail. ''Many of my highest 
achieving students have been through 
significant struggles in their lives." 
He estimated his classes have only 
60 to 70 percent attendance on any given 
day. A 2007 study by Johns Hopkins 
University labeled Cross a "dropout 
factory," one of 14 in the state, because 
it found that only 50 percent of the 
MAY 2011 
students in the classes of 2004, 2005, 
and 2006 who entered Cross as freshmen 
graduated fouryears later. (New Haven 
Superintendent Dr. 
Reginald 
Mayo 
disputed the finding, saying that it didn't 
account for students transferring out 
of Cross into different high schools. 
Even generously corrected for that, 
the dropout rate is quite high 
about 
a quarter of students 
and the city has 
been criticized for artificially inflating its 
schools' reported graduation rates.) 
"The problem with 
ew Haven 
Promise," Robin said, "is that the people 
who need this the most aren't going to 
get this money. This money will go to 
good kids, don't get tne wrong ... The 
kids who need this the most are the kids 
who are way below the poverty line and 
the vast majority of tho e kids won't 
see a dime of this .money, because they . 
won't be able to meet the standards this 
program asks for." He emphasized the 
importance of attracting goo<L new 
teachers to the district to help srudents 
• 
.reach their goals. 

The people behind New Haven 
Promise are aware of the hurdles they 
face, and alongside the scholarship 
they've unveiled a detailed plan to support 
students in reaching the program's 
requirements. They plan to begin talk 
of college with students and parents in 
the elementary schools, and flag each 
year students who have slipped below 
Promise standards. They plan to create a 
College Corps of community adults who 
will go door-to-door explaining what 
students need for college to parents who 
may not even hav-e finished high school 
They have partnered with College 
Summit to bring a pilot curriculum about 
applying to college into the classroom at 
Cooperative Arts and Humanities High 
chool, and ~'ill extend this program to 
two more high schools next year. 
till, 
sometime 
sorely needed 
change 
have nothing to do with 
volunteer or curricula. 

a teacher at 
Cro s who asked not to be named told 
me that the most effective recent change 
at the school was reducing its size. 


---

The sign outside Wilbur Cross High School. 


Over the past five years, the population 
of Cross has been reduced by about 
four hundred students transferring to 
recently opened magnet schools. Now, 
the hallways at Cross are less crowded, 
so there are fewer fights. 

The teacher showed me a cell phone 
video taken by a student of a fight 
between two other students. One male 
student lunges at another, sending the 
pair spinning noisily against the orange, 
red, and yellow lockers. At least one more 
cell phone recording the fight is visible 
in the frame, and onlookers are shouting. 


Afterward, the teacher said, the attacked 
student suffered a cerebral hemorrhage, 
and his attacker was expelled. "Our job 
in fights is just to ignore them," the 
teacher told me. Instead, fights fall under 
the purview of security guards. ''Kids 
are very used to it." 

f you're a student at one of New 
Raven's public schools, by this point 
in the school year, you may have given 
a bit of thought to what you'd like to 
do after you graduate. You might be 
among the 42 percent of seniors living 
in-district who hive applied for funding 
from 
ew Haven Promise. Or, your 
plans might not involve college at all. 

Brian Flanagan, a guidance counselor at 
Cross, was careful to say that he's happy 
to point his students toward vocational 
schools or employment if thafs what 
is right for them. (Of New Haven 
Promise, he said, "Sure, they'll pay for 
college, but you'll have a lot of families 
where the student will just need to go to 
work after graduating school to support · 
their family.") 


You might be one of the lucky ones. 
You might be like Donald Walker, a senior 
·at Metropolitan Business Academy who 
this September will become a first-
generation college student, thanks in part 
to the funds he'll receive from Promise. 
He wants to earn a degree in history and 
become a teacher. For now, he has a job 
at the Peabody Museum, pushing the 
fossil cart and explaining the museum's 
exhibits to visitors. Walker described 
his 27- and 25-year-old brothers as 
''rebellious," saying, ''I saw from both 
my brothers' mistakes." 

You might be like Victoria Ortiz, 
also a senior at Metropolitan Business 
Academ~ 
whose 
grandmother 
immigrated to New Haven from Puerto 
Rico, long ago. Orr iz feels deep loyalty 
to the city. "When you grow up in a 
communicy," she told me, "you should 
want to give back." She wants to study 
to become a nurse because after her 
hospitalization during a bout of sickness 
her freshman year, Ortiz felt indebted 
to her nurses' kindness. Her mother, 
who is single, lost her job after talcing 
off too much time to care for Ortiz, so 
'"'ew Haven Promise will be important 
in helping Ott iz to become a first-
generation college student this fall. 

You might be like Maria Arnold, a 
senior at High School in the Community 
who is also about to receive Promise 
funds. and 
become 
another 
first-
generation college student. Arnold has 
been accepted to Trinity College, where 
she hopes to engage in a genomics 
research program. After college, she 
' 
p. 
wants to pursue research in cancer 
a. 
and diabetes 
and has "since fifth i 
,, c -
grade," she said. ' 
ow, even more so. 

{. 
The guidance counselor's daughter has 



leukemia, and my grandfather died from 
cancer." 

For her birthday, a friend gave 
Arnold a dorm-room sized fridge, and 
over the next few weeks, Arnold plans 
to tour Trinity and the other schools 
she's been accepted to. She is quiet, with 
long brown hair, and is an enthusiastic 
reader. She recently read Hamlet with her 
AP English class and made it a personal 
project to commit to memory the 
prince's most famous speech. 

''Whether 'tis nobler in the mind 
. 
to suffer the slings and arrows of 
outrageous fortune ... " 

Meanwhile, the staff of New 
Haven Promise has been touring the city 
in order to inform students and parents 
about what's possible. At a meeting in 
the community room of Quinnipiac 
Terrace, a public housing project on the 
river in Fair Haven, a predominantly 
Latino neighborhood in the eastern part 
of the city, Adriana Arreola, who works 
in the Promise office, said, ''New Haven 
Promise is a scholarship and support 
program. We're not about just giving out 



money." 

The handful of people assembled 
included 
a 
few 
members of 
the 
community who started an after-school 
homework club for the neighborhood 
because many of the children there live 
with grandparents who may not speak 
English or be able to help them. They 
were quiet, attentive, nodding. They took 
the glossy pamphlets 
"School Change 
Begins With Me," "Making the Promise 
of College a Reality" 
and asked only 
how they could best help get the word 
out to parents and students. 

''We have at least five seniors I can 
think of. Very bright," said Demetria 
McMillian, one of the residents. But 
none of them were there yet. ''We wish 
they would have come out tonight. We 
were really trying to connect them with 
you. " 

''It's like expanding their world to 
show them the choice,'"' said Mary Anne 
Moran, another resident, of New Haven 
Promise. 

Finally, after several minutes, one 
of the parents whom McMillian was 
awaiting arrived, his teenage daughter 
in tow. "That's my sunshine," he saia 
proudly, in accented English, as she 
took a pamphlet. She had to get going 
to choir rehearsal soon, he said, but in 
the meantime, he wanted her to hear 
about New Haven Promise. There was, 
after all, the chance she'd be among 
the first few generations of scholarship 
recipients. And then there was the chance 
she would not, the possibility that she'd 
end up someplace besides college, the 
cards stacked against her by history and 
• c.t.rcnmstance. 

For the 
time 
being, 
however, 
Arreola switched to Spanish as she, the 
father, and the student opened the door 
to an adjacent room, where they'd talk 
over the details. 

jacque Feldman is a junior 
in Davenport College and an 
editor-in-chief o 
e New 
Journal. 


**Title: Alice Washburn's Houses**
**Author: Juliana Hanle**
**Page number(s): 40-42**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The houses of Hamden's Swarthmore Street possess delicate bones. Place them atop poles and each home would look like the finest handmade birdhouse. These colonials and their siblings, over one hundred and ten houses· in total, have presided over streets in Hamden, New Haven, and Cheshire since the 1920s, when they were designed and built by Alice Washburn. 

Washburn began her career as a landscape architect with no formal training in 1919 at age 49. She had no formal training. By 1933 she was bankrupt, retired, and living in quiet obscurity with her sister in Cheshire. When she died 25 years later, Washburn's death certificate listed her occupation as "housewife." But her clients remembered and passed on her name to the next owners of their homes. 

In 1984 Martha Buck, known then as Martha Yellig, began asking about the Swarthmore Street houses where she dropped off her young son for playdates. Buck learned only the builder's name and sex: Washburn, female. Bpck, at forty-something years old and in the midst of a divorce, had returned to school to pursue a college degree in art history. She selected the work of the prolific Washburn as the subject of her senior paper at Southern Connecticut State University. But the woman who had speculated and designed better than most men was also discreet. Washburn disposed of all her personal records. "I just kept hitting dead end after dead end," Buck recalled in an interview in late March. Not even Washburn's grand-daughter knew much about the woman, she added. Eventually she found building permits that listed not only Washburn but also the names of her workmen. "I cannot tell you how exciting it was for me to find her signature," Buck said. Facts emerged: Washburn was a mother of two and the wife of a wallpaper manufacturer. Family history said that she had been a schoolteacher. Buck used these leads to produce an essay constructed largely around anecdotal evidence gathered from homeowners and the offspring of Washburn's employees. Buck received her degree in 1985. 


By 1990, Washburn's story had fallen into the hands of Mimsie Coleman, then the co-president of the Arts Council of Greater New Haven. Coleman, a journalist and Washburn homeowner herself, decided that the architect was worthy of commemoration. The council coordinated with the Hamden Historical Society and the Eli Whitney Musentn to mount an exhibit and organize a house tour. The New York Times covered the event. The house· tour alone brought in $10,000, according to Eli Whitney Museum Director Wi11iam Brown. Martha Buck even agreed to produce an informational pamphlet for the event. But Buck's loosely written narrative did not satisfy Brown. To him, Buck lacked the discipline of a trained architectural historian. She was "a woman who found a really wonderful story and didn't know what to do about it," he said. Negotiations grew heated, money and exhibition priorities became points of contention, and Buck arranged to print her work independently. She and two friends fronted and then sold the press run of about 1,000 copies. 

Admittedly, the Washburn story is not that of a revolutionary designer. However, unique and idiosyncratic grace saturates the work she left behind. Coleman, ordinarily articulate, allowed her voice to trail off indistinctly when she tried to describe the charm of her own Washburn. Brown, Buck, and Coleman called Washburn's style "intimate," "filled with light," and "warm." "I fs how wide they typically are, but it's also the height of the window. It's obviously the leaded glass fan light above the front door, the moldings, the crown moldings, and the ornateness of the fireplace," John Cuozzo said of the colonials. Cuozzo is a Hamden realtor who has been selling Washburns for decades since before the name became an adjective. He added that their proportions explain the way they sell for more than other houses in the same neighborhoods with the same amount of floorspace. It was evident to me, even in the dim gaze of a March sun, that the precision of the Swarthmore Street houses outshines the clumsier lines of their neighbors. 

Coleman's house shows that Washburn squeezed a lot into a tiny space. The living room frames a large, finely carved fireplace on fluted columns and the library wraps around miniature French doors. The fireplace, columns, and doors are all Washburn signatures. The fine millwork designed and overseen by Washburn personally endows each Washburn house with its splendor. 

The construction of this house and of the other Washburns occurred at a transformative period in the countryside around Hamden. Washburn worked during a time when more and more professionals were moving outside of the city proper and commuting via trolley or car to the office, the time when suburbia was born. And, at least during the decade she worked, it looked as if Washburn's precise construction might become the standard for future development around New Haven. 

But generous and gutsy business practices ultimately ran Washburn into debt. Buck said that Washburn not only took all the financial risk on herself by designing on speculation, but she also would not charge when it became apparent that a family could not provide the wages for extra work. 

Washburn's appeal comes from the combination of the charisma of her creations and the enigma of her motivations. She provides the perfect foundation on which to construct any personality.  Buck's 1990 publication depicts Washburn as a lady who used her female sensibility to understand how to appropriately define the domestic realm. 

But when we spoke in late March over coffee, Buck imagined Washburn as a different kind of creative force. "She was a builder first and a lady second," Buck told me. Just as Washburn designed without access to formal architectural training, Buck constructed her historical narrative from speculation. Buck's Washburn was generous to a fault, building more for her clients than they paid for, and possessed exacting standards, demanding perfection from her craftsmen. From what Buck drew from children of clients or employees, she erected an image of a passionate, intelligent, distant woman. However, Buck couldn't answer the biggest question about Washburn's life. "What made her think that she could do this?" she asked, shrugging. We can't know the answer. But even if the paint peels on the Washburn homes, if their floorboards sag, or if their interiors are gutted for renovation, we can hope the architect herself will be remembered for having had the audacity to build them. 

juliana Hanle is a sophomore in Davenport College and a managing editor of The New Journal.


**Title: Bahrain**
**Author: Helen Knight**
**Page number(s): 43-45**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
•, 
Du_ring violent protests, visiting expatriate 
parents at their home in Bahrain. 
' 
y father wrote me an email from 
u:ru·n on February 11, a month 
before I visited him and my mother there 
over spring break. ''We hear the honking 
of cars from the road in the distance in 
celebration of Mubarak's resignation," 
he wrote. "If things go well, this will be 
a step forward for the Arab world." A 
few days later, on February 14, I read in 
the New York Times that the violence 
had spread to Bahrain. To oversimplify 
the conflict, the majority of Bahrain's 
population is Shiite, but the· monarchy 
is Sunni. Primarily Shiite protestors 
were demanding greater political and 
economic freedoms. 

Pearl Square quickly became the 
meeting point of the protestors. "Pearl" 
refers to a monument in the area 
a 
white concrete orb held up by six curved 
pillars that commemorates the country's 
pearl-diving history. Pearl "Square" is 
a creation of the international media, 
an allusion to Egypt's Tahrir Square. 
I've always known this area as Pearl 
Roundabout or Lulu Roundabout, after 
the name of the nearby supermarket. 
Pearl Square is most definitely a circle. 
When I'm in Bahrain, I go around it 
just about every day, and every single 
time, my mom says, ''Be careful dt iving 
through roundabouts. Some drivers just 
don't know how to keep turning to stay 
inside their lane." 

In the early hours of Febn1ary 17, 
police fired tear gas and rubber bullets 
-
at the masses in Pearl Roundabout. 
Whole families had camped out there:-
some with young children 
and man 
were asleep when the crackdown began. 
MAY 2011 
By Helen Knight 
Paramedics responding to . the scene 
were targeted. At the end of the next 
day, hundreds were injured. In the first 
five days of demonstrations, seven 
protestors were killed. On February 19, 
the Crown Prince Salman bin Hamad al-
Khalifa ordered the withdrawal of forces 
from Pearl Roundabout, giving it to the 
protestors as a place of demonstration. 
A national tragedy had occurred, but it 
appeared to be over. Pearl Roundabout 
had become a new symbol 
one of 
popular revolt. 

In the month of peaceful protests 
following the initial violence, I wasn't so 
worried as I followed events from New 
Haven. Sleepy little Bahrain, making 
headline news. Nicholas Kristof filing 
editorials from the house of my parents' 
neighbors. I looked at as many photos 
of the protests as I could find, trying to 
identify the buildings in the background 
that I knew from my visits. 

am an expatriate because of my father, 
who works in international finance. 
My father is an expatriate by choice. 
As a young lawyer in New York, 
my father began trading textiles. One 
of my early memories of Manhattan 
is of a carpet store. Carpets were hung 
on the walls, rolled up along the sides 
of the room, piled several layers deep 
on the floor. Dust spiraled ·in the shafts 
of sunlight, disturbed as carpets were 
unrolled for display. As my parents 
examined the rugs, my older sister and 
I jumped between the stacks and hid in 
corners, engulfed in the mu ty smelL 
Born and raised in 
orth Carolina, 
my father had never known anything like 
the textile-trading world. Maybe that's 
what attracted him to it. At first, he could 
not afford to buy carpets, but he still went 
to the stores and talked to their owners . 
He learned how to distinguish between 
the carpets of different tribes 
Soumac, 
Belouch, Konya. He heard about the 
cities where textile traders bought their 
stock Istanbul, Lahore, Tehran. 

By the time he visited those cities 
for himself, years later, he had the 
knowledge of a professional. In the 
Grand Bazaar in Istanbul, my blond-
haired and blue-eyed father looked like 
the perfect target for carpet dealers who 
wanted to sell him new, chemically dyed,· 
Persian designs. They harassed him as he 
walked by. He would turn around and 
say, "Unless you have an antique Shirvan 
or Suzani, I'm not interested." They left 
him alone after that. 

Now, my father owns around fifty 
carpets, though he trades them regularly. 
Some were bought in New York. More 
were bought in Singapore, where we 
lived after New York. A few were bought 
during travels in Turkey, Pakistan, Iran, 
Uzbekistan. 

He often stands in the living room, 
staring at a carpet he has recently 
unrolled. If I walk by, he will ask my 
opinion of it. He thinks I have an "eye 
for color." I pause for a minute, loolcing 
thoughtful. Actua11y, I'm staring without 
thinking, waiting until I can get away. I 
say something neutral. I just don't care 
about the carpets. To me, they all look 
about the same. 

I wish I could appreciate therra the 
way my father does. Each one of the 
seven houses where I have lived has 
had carpets on the floor in New York, 
Singapore, and now Bahrain. But I've 
never been able to shake off the idea 
that home should be a fixed point on a 
map. 

ivfy father often reminds me that 
Bahrain is my home. It's not. I've never 
actna11y lived there 
I left for college 
at the same time my parents moved to 
Bahrain. During school vacations, it's 
where I "go home.n But it's not my 
home. 


--- Page 44 ---

eing an expatriate means being 
ready to move to a new country 
without much warning. In the expatriate 
world, it is an anomaly that I lived in 
Singapore for eleven years. My father 
passed on opportunities to relocate so 
I could complete school in Singapore. 
When I finished high school, though, 
my parents were free to leave. Within a 
few weeks of graduation, years of life irt 
Southeast Asia were packed, given away, 
or discarded. 

My mother and I flew to Bahrain 
for the first time that summer. My father 
already had been living there for six 
months. He picked us up at the airport 
and wanted to immediately take us the 
ruins of a seventeenth-century Persian 
fort. I convinced him to let me sleep 
instead. 

I went to a mall a few days after 
arriving 
beautiful 
mall, 
more 
sophisticated than any I've seen in the 
States, with Saks Fifth Avenue and every 
European · designer store. Manhattan, 
Singapore, Bahrain: all tiny islands, all 
meeting points. Some women dressed 
in ·curtain-like black abayat and face-
covering niqab. Since even their feet 
were covered, they seemed to glide over 
the marble floor. Others pranced around 
in skin-tight distressed jeans. My mother 
left me for a few minutes to do errands, 
and I was alone among strangers. 

I had already traveled a lot in 
the Middle East, in Egypt and in 
Jordan. There was nothing naturally 
shocking or intimidating about my 
surroundings at the mall. But alone in 
this new country 
a country that had 
44 
just become a part of my life · I was 
suddenly and irrationally overcome with 
fear. I felt self-conscious in my baggiest 
jeans and most .formless shirt, like every 
man weat:ing a white robe and headscarf 
. was stadng at my body. I sat paralyzed 
inside a Starbucks, apprehensive of the 
men with Cartier watches and women 
with Bv~gari jewelry, desperate for my 
mother to return. 

That first . trip to Bahrain, my 
I wante tore 
) 
(( 
. ) 
o, Its not u 
to 
o ; Its u to 
ou. a e son1e 
res onsi i it :' 
mother and I took a taxi to the mall 
once a . day to buy groceries. Otherwise, 
. we stayed in the temporary apartment 
where my father had been living. He 
took the car to work every morning. 
Bahrain has no public transportation, 
and taxis are prohibitively expensive, 
so we tried to avoid taking them more 
thari was necessary. I worked out in the 
aparttnent gym. Its only other users were 
U.S. servicemen from the Navy's Fifth 
Fleet, stationed a few minutes away by 
car. I · watched television. Bahraini TV 
airs a lot of American shows. I read a 
couple of books 
one about Jakarta, 
which 
brought 
back 
memories 
of 
living 
in 
Singapore. 
I 
thought 
about 
my 
friends 
Singapore, 
hanging out at the 
American 
Club, 
a facility with a 
pool, gym, lihtary, 
and 
restaurants 
where we all had 
spent a lot of 
:· 
'(' 
.~ 
. 
time groWing up. Now' tliat we were all 
finally eighteen years old, my friends 
would be going to the bar there. 

n Bahrain, my mom and I looked for 
a house. My father had brought a few 
small carpets to put on the floor of the 
temporary apartment, but it still smelled 
like plastic. While he was at work, the 
real estate agent picked up my mother 
and me in his car. We drove all over the 
island, visiting house after house. My 
parents wanted a house with·"character." 
Because there would only be the two of . 
them living there, my mother wanted a 
house that would be manageable to take 
care of by herself. Instead, the real estate 
agent showed us huge, marble palaces 
with gilded iron gates. McMansions, my 
m?m called them. They are built primarily 
fot wealthy expatriates and Arabs; often 
clustered in gated communities. During 
my first visit, we did 'not find a single 
place my parents wanted to live. 

Those neighborhoods of opulent 
houses 
with smaller exterior buildings 
where the domestic workers and drivers 
who work at the bouse live 
are the ones 
I think of as typical in Bahrain. But this 
"typical" is coming from the perspective 
of a Westerner with a sheltered life 
there.· My "typical" is not accurate. 
There are outlying Bahraini villages I've 
never visited. There are neighborhoods 
of migrant workers who have left their 
home countries and send money back 
to their families. Filipinos work in the 
service industry; South Asians work 
in construction. The presence of so 
rnariy migrant workers made me feel 
comfortable during those first few weeks 
in Bahrain. I was accustomed to seeing 
people from diose places in Singapore. 

I did not embrace Bahrain. My . 
father did. This t nanifested itself in a 
suqden and passionate love for eating 
dates. He had hated dates when he was 
younger, but according to him,. that was 
because they lost their flavor traveling 
long distances. Dates in Bahrain were 
fresh-that is to say, freshly dried. Every 
time anyone asked, "What's Bahrain 
like?" he would mention dates. Every 
night after dinner, I would hear, "Helen! 
THE NEw JouRNAL 


--- Page 45 ---

.. 
The writer (second from right) and her family at the Shaikh Isa bin Ali House in Muharraq, Bahrain . 
Have a date." I hated dates. Truthfully, I 
was indifferent to the taste. But willingly 
eating them seemed something like 
gtvmg m. 

Flights often leave Bahrain in the 
middle of the night. My father complains 
about driving to the aitport at that hour, 
but he does it anyway. Normally, I say 
goodbye to my parents at the terminal's 
security checkpoint before Immigration. 
Then, when I'm leaving with my sister, 
we start singing, "Freedom... Freee-
doooom." We are only half kidding. 

y parents finally found a house 
_ct,Ll.rlng my first semester in college. 
They moved in on Thanksgiving Day, 
which I spent with far nily in Boston. 
The house across the street had a 
Sri Lankan maid narned Rani who, by 
tradition, also worked in the house we 
had rented. My tnother decided this 
arrangement would continue. One of 
the first questions Rani asked my mother 
was, "Do you like cats?" She was relieved 
when my mother said no. The previous 
tenants not only had several cats of their 
own, but they also fed all of the stray 
and pet cats in the neighborhood. Every 
evening, around fifty cats would stream 
to the house for food. The house had to 
be renovated before we moved in, in part 
because the cat smell was unbearable. 

Our house is in what would be 
called a gated community in the States, 
although the term "compound" is still 
used in Bahrain. The houses in the 
community are all white and one· or two 
stories ta11. There is a tennis court and a 
pool. The compound is literally an oasis, 
built over a natural water source that still 
springs up in a pool today. As a result 
of the fresh water, it is exceptionally 
verdant, with luxurious bougainvillea 
bushes and overgrown hedges spming 
over garden fences. Massive date paln1s 
line the streets. They are tended by a 
crew of quiet Nepalese gardeners, who 
collect thousands of green dates from 
the trees every spring. 

Over the course of visits to Bahrain 
during school vacations, I got to know 
some of the people in the community. 
Because the houses are only for lease and 
not for sale, most are expat• iates. Grace, 
an elegant Asian-American woman from 
Colorado, is one of my favorites. She 
helped me with rtty Chinese homework 
over winter break. Her husband owned 
his own business in Colorado, but he lost 
it in the recent financial crisis. The only 
work he could find was in Bahrain, so 
they sold their house and moved. 

During my visits there, I usnaJ1y did 
very little, relishing in the kind of luxury 
that only arises during a school vacation. 
I stayed up too late at night, watching 
DVDs on my laptop, sometimes until 
the sunrise call to prayer was broadcasted 
from a dozen mosques nearby. During 
the day, I padded around the dark and 
cool house in my pajamas, the bottoms 
of my bare feet cushioned by the carpets 
in every room. My favorite carpet, fleecy 
soft with a blue and red geometrical 
design, was in a smaller room off the 
living room with enormous bookshelves. 
I set ambitious goals for reading books 
and failed to meet them. When my 
father was in the house, music would be 
playing 
classical, jazz, contemporary 
Algerian, or something else. Sometim~ 
m y mother, sister, and I would go to 
the pool or the movie theater. 
was about it Bahrain is a quiet placee-
nothing ever happens there. 

n Bahrain, as in other Middle Eastern 
countries, people often say · 
It 
is a tic 
the verbal e 
· 
ent of passing 
prayer beads through one's bands even 
when one is not actna11y praying. Initially~ 
inshallah annoyed me. When I told my 
45 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Helen**
**Page number(s): 46**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
•
taxi driver, "I would like to go to the
mall, please," I did not want to hear "If
God wills it" as a response. It seemed
fatalist. I wanted to reply, "No, it's not
up to God; it's up to you. Take some
responsibility."


On March 13, I woke up late in
my bedroom in Bahrain, still jedagged
several days after having arrived from
·New Haven. "Protestors are blocking
the highway in the financial district. It's
looking violent again," my mom told me.
''We'll go tomorrow to get the necklace
I had restrung for you." But we couldn't
go the next day, or the day after that. I
departed Bahrain without my necklace.


I did not leave my immediate
neighborhood those last three days in
Bahrain. Very quickly, the country started
sliding toward anarchy. Protestors took
.
over whole villages and neighborhoods.
On March 14, I saw a photo online of
tanks rolling across the causeway from
Saudi Arabia to Bahrain, sent to regain
order by the countries in the Gulf
Cooperation Council. Iran claimed this
was a Saudi invasion. The next day, the .
king of Bahrain declared the country
to be in a state of emergency, and two
civilians were killed in the protests.


I had assumed online news sources
updated almost instantaneously. I quickly
realized this isn't true: News articles
appeared online in the evening, after a
whole day had passed. Most of the time,
we did not know what was happening.
Rumors flew: The troops had not come
yet. They were already here, breaking
up protests. There were roving bands
of men destroying shop fronts. People
who worked in the financial district
were being threatened by their village
neighbors, and physically prevented
from coming into the city. A few people
had died. Many people had died.


I remember distinctly the sounds
of that time. The wind kept up for
several days. The palm . leaves rustled.
A wind chime jangled. Helicopters
droned constantly. Something, maybe
a shutter I never figured out what:--
banged in the wind with a gun-like
report.


My father and I walked the perimeter
46
of the compound every night. Once, the
sky was extravagantly colored
lavender
with tangerine clouds. Then I decided
the sky was tangerine, and the clouds
were lavender. I kept changing my mind.
My dad quoted ·Dryden on that walk:
All things are subject to decay,
And, when Fate summons, monarchs
must obey.


I left the compound with my mother
to drive to a hotel pool down the road.
It was a way to think about something
other than the political situation for a
few hours. There, I swam laps, then sat
in a deck chair in the sun. A waitress
ewtn
e t
or several
ters
rone
constant
came by to ask if I wanted anything to
eat or drink. While demonstrators and
police sparred fifteen minutes away by
car, I worked on my tan.


At the pool one day, another regular
swimmer
an
American
woman-
stopped to talk to my mom. "Did you
see the embassy notice today?" she
asked.
'<yes
warning Americans not to
come."
"And telling Americans to leave."
''Well I'm not leaving. I think it's
ridiculous. We're sending our daughter
back tonight, though, earlier
than
planned. We figure we might as well."
Then they talked about how they had the
same bathing suit, bought at Marshall's.
I kept thinking about moments such
as this one even as they happened. It was
strange. Something historical was going
on. But life keeps going, and there was
little to do other than what we normally
did.


flight was at 2:00 a.m., but we
"~ for the airport at 10:00 p.m.,
hours earlier than we normally would.
The night before, the opposition had set
up a checkpoint on the highway we were
planning to take, and traffic had been
delayed for hours.


The roads were empty, however.
An alley of food stands usually bustling
with activity was completely dark except
for the fluorescent lights of a single
shawarma
stand,
glowing
defiantly.
We said little on the way, listening to
Mozart's violin concertos
my father's
choice. Near the airport, we were waved .
through two police checkpoints. My
mom commented on the recently raised
prices at the airport parking lot.


Only one of the airport's doors was
open, and a policeman stood in front of
it. My dad approached him.
"Passengers only."
''We're checking in our daughter."
"No, sorry, just passengers."
"Well, then, take my driver's license
until I come back out."
"No."


That night, outside of the airport
and in front of my parents, the police
officer, and about a dozen other people,
I started sobbing.


Once I collected myself, I said
goodbye to my parents in front of the
airport and went in. I wasn't scared
about checking in on my own. I had had
a terrible thought. I did not know when
I was going to return to Bahrain.


n March 18, New Haven had a
perfect spring morning. There
were robins in the Davenport courtyard.
The Yale campus was quiet. In Bahrain,
the Pearl Roundabout was also quiet'--
completely empty. After the protestors
were cleared out of the area, government .
bulldozers
entered and razed
the
monument.
I'll be back soon. Inshallah.
. .
Helen
t is a sophomore in
Davenport College and a senior
editor o
e New Journal.
THE NEw JouRNAL



**Author: Eleanor KelJon**
**Page number(s): 47**

..
dream about trains. I ride the .rails, shooting across continents and coasting th.rough da.rk tunnels unde.r
city streets. Ticket stubs a.re my bookma.rks and timetables, my wallpaper. One .recent evening, some local
news piqued
and off-peaked
my interest.


I was sitting in a lib.ra.ry window seat when I saw that fi.rst train ca.r's interior shine forth from my laptop
screen. Suited commuters scanned legal briefs, g.reen coats dangled from sleek overhead luggage .racks, a
bea.rded man slept peacefully. The blu.r.red scenery th.rough the windows could have been anywhere. Was
this France's TGV? Japan's Shinkansen? The Orient Express? Another photo showed this same silver bullet
shooting across a familia.r concrete landscape of parking ga.rages and office buildings: this was New Haven.
This was Metro-N o.rth!


Metro-N o.rth, that ca.rrie.r of commuters and conce.rtgoe.rs, that pu.rveyo.r of sticky linoleum and sweaty
vinyl seat~, has a new look. Eight new Kawasaki M8 ca.rs on the New Haven line debuted this Ma.rch,
.replacing a small slice of the existing thi.rty-yea.r-old fleet. By the end of spring, 26 scarlet-striped ca.rriages
will be .rolling into stations f.rom he.re to G.rand Central. The.re will be eighty in use by the yea.r's end.
Eventually, 380 shiny ca.rs will make up the fleet. Enlarged bath.rooms, speckled floors, electronic destination
signs, seat-side powe.r outlets, and th.rones of sumptuous .red leather will propel Metro-North's riders into the
future.


·
Realizing this could be the most exciting news in locomotion since the fi.rst train ran from the Elm City
to the Big Apple in 1849, I checked the day>s rail schedule at bettermetronorth.com. There was a train leaving
at 10:10 p.m. There would be enough time fo.r me to make a round trip to Bridgeport or even across state
lines to Grand Central
before the night was th.rough. With excitement, trepidation, and not a single doubt,
I hopped in a taxi and paid my fa.re upon a.rrival at Union Station.


As I shuffled to the ticket machines, the 10:10 listing flipped to '~I .I. ABOARD" on the old analog
depa.rture-boa.rd, which is slated for replacement this spring. I purchased my ticket and eagerly made my way
to track 14.


But the old yellow headlights in the distance told n1e all I needed to know: There would be no
rendezvous with the Kawasaki M8 this evening. As die veteran ca.rs rattled into the station, I wondered what
had come over me. I did not want to go to New York.


I ran back th.rough the tunnel and up to the street. Not even stopping for a consolation treat from
Dunkin' Donuts, I boa.rded the Yale shuttle and headed back to campus. The.re were no plush seats or sleek
screens for comfort, but this old Blue-line bus was talcing me where I wanted to go.


I tucked my rail ticket into my wallet. Another day, perhaps, I'll ride the train of my dreams.
___,Eleanor Ke1!Jon

