Publication date: September 6, 1991
Volume: 24
Issue number: 1


**MASTHEAD:**
- Editorials: Jennifer Pitts


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
About This Issue
Book Review: The Feminine Mistake ... By Cathy Corman
Afterthought: Journalism Under Fire ... By Melissa Turner
Special Feature: Ask the Impertinent Question ... an excerpt of Garry Trudeau's 1991 Class Day Remarks.
The Last Bastion: Wolf's Head Confronts Coeducation ... By Katherine McCarron
Words That Killed: The Murder of a New Haven Police Informant ... By Erik Meers
Rosa DeLauro: Scaling Capitol Hill... By Jennifer Pitts
Beauty as the Beast...By Kathy Reich


**Title: The Last Bastion: Wolf's Head Confronts Coeducation**
**Author: Katherine McCarron**
**Page number(s): 16**
Of Yales elite secret societies only Wolf's Head still excludes women. The debate raging within comes to a head this October.


**Title: Words That Killed: The Murder of a New Haven Police Informant**
**Author: Erik Meers**
**Page number(s): 20**
Police money feeds the drug habits of New Haven informants. Will the cops buy testimony at the cost of human life?


**Title: Rosa DeLauro: Scaling Capitol Hill**
**Author: Jennifer Pitts**
**Page number(s): 12**
New Haven's Congresswoman holds tremendous power for a newcomer to Capitol Hill. But she claims to wield it on behalf of "ordinary men and women."


**Title: Beauty as the Beast**
**Author: Kathy Reich**
For years people judged Naomi Wolf by her beauty, not her brains. She's not willing to take it anymore-and she doesn't think other women should, either.


**Title: *
**Author: [N/A]**
**Page number(s): [4]**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
NEw HAYEN's MoST ExciTING NEw REsTAURANT, 
TAKING DINING BACK INTO THE 50's. ENTREES, 
BURGERS, SAlADS, SANDWICHES AND BREAKFAST SERVED 
ALL D AY: OPEN LATE. 0 lJIDOOR DrNING AND BAR. 
238 Crown Street 
.• J 
New Haven 
(Corner of eoliege & Crown, Located in the Theatre District) 
562-3530


**Title: The New Journal Staff**

TheNewJoumal 
,, 
PUBLISH ER 
Anna Ljunggrm 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
]mnifa-Pitts 
MANAGING EDITORS 
Kathmru McCarron 
EriltMurs 
KathyRnch 
BUSINESS MANAGER 
julianKu 
DESIGNER 
Annette !Grebner 
PRODUCTION MANAGER 
Sarah Dijulio 
PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR 
joeyLiao 
AssociATE PuBLISHER 
TinaAsmuth 
AssocJAn EDITORS 
Emily Baulon 
Sunuta Hazra 
AssociATE B usiNEss MANAGER 
A/Fox 
SuescRJPTION MANAGER 
Yoshi Inoue 
STAFF 
Alison Buttmht:im 
MasiDmison 
Sa/Jy Horchow 
Caitlin Macy 
Mt:mbt:r and'Dirt:eton: 
Edward B. Bennett lii • Constance Clement 
• Peter B. Cooper • Andy Court • Thomas 
Geyer • Brooks Kelley • Patricia Pierce • Fred 
Srrcbcigh • Thomas Strong 
Frimds: Anson M. Beard, Jr. • Edward B. 
Bennett, Jr. • Edward B. Bennett Ill • Blairc 
Bcnnert • Gerald Bruck • Jonathan M. Clark 
• Louise F. Cooper • James W. Cooper • 
Peter B. Cooper • Jerry and Rae Court • 
David Freeman • Geoffry Fried • Sherwin · 
Goldman • John Hersey • Brooks Kelly • 
Roger Kirwood • Andrew J. Kuzncski, Jr. • 
Lewis E. Lehrman • E. Nobles Lowe • Peter 
Neill • Julie Peters • Fairfax C. Randal • 
Nicholas X. Rizopoulos • Arleen and Arthur 
Sager • Dick and Debbie Scars • Richard 
Shields • Thomas Strong • Elizabeth Tate • 
Alex and Betsy Torello • Allen and Sarah 
Wardell • Peter Yeager • Daniel Yergin 
SEPTP.MBF.R 6, 1991 


**Title: About This Issue**
**Author: JGP**
**Page number(s): [5]**

I
n our lead piece, Garry Trudeau exhorts Yale students to ask the 
impertinent question. «I would argue that that's the whole 
point of a university," he says. «It is a sanctuary where disputa-
tiousness should not only be tolerated, it should be cherished." The 
New journal strives to live up to Trudeau's advice and sound the 
depths of the community in which we live. Our articles this month 
take you from Capitol Hill to New Haven's Kimberly Square. 
Do the New Haven Police sacrifice lives to fight the drug epi-
demic? Our look at the 1987 murder ofPatty Konesky has made us 
wonder whether police payoffs to informants unecessarily endanger 
their lives. Should Wolf's Head continue to exclude women? In our 
article about Yale's last all-male secret society, we ask whether 
women would improve Wolf's Head or destroy it. Has Yale ever 
really accepted women in its midst? Two articles about Naomi 
Wolf's The Beauty Myth examine the theory that traditional institu-
tions still view women as outsiders. 

It may seem in this issue that women get most of the press, but 
The New journals scope encompasses all of Yale and New Haven. 
We write about the vibrant community that surrounds us, through 
profiles, opinion pieces, and good old-fashioned investigative 
reporting. 

You too can get in on the action. The New journal is looking for 
writers, designers, photographers, artists, computer whizzes, and 
born salesmen for our business staff. Join us at our organizational 
meeting on Tuesday, September 1Oth at 7 p.m. in the Calhoun 
College Foord Lounge. We want to hear your ideas. 
-JGP 
SEPTEMBER 6, 1991 



HARm'LES 
For Men 
and Women 
821/2 Wall St. (865-9187) • 19 Broadway (865-9182) 
We cany Nexxus, Sebastian, 
KMS and Paul Mitchell Products. 
No Appointment Necessary 



JCY.J{(j:S ~01J'UCE 
0 
A full service grocery. Lush 
fruit and vegetables, an unusual 
and varied salad bar with 
Oriental specialties, a selection 
of coffee beans, European and 
Oriental groceries. 
1147 Chapel• 562-7725 
Open Mon-Sat, 8 am -7:30 pro



Good food, good spirits. 
International beer list. 
Daily food & drink specials 
OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK 
Welcome Yale seniors and 
graduate students: 
1 Oo/o discount on food 
with valid Yale ID 
Lunch & Dinner 
Weekend Brunch 
93 Whitney Ave.New Haven 
495 9086 


**Title: Ask the Impertinent Question**
**Author: Garry Trudeau**
**Page number(s): [6]**

6 THE NEw jouRNAL 



**Class Day Remarks**
**Author: Garry Trudeau**
**Page number(s): 7-9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
SEPTEMBER 6, 1991 
Last May. Garry TrtH-kau (DC 70), social critic and creator of 
the cartoon Doonesbury, ushered the class of 1991 into the real 
world. Whik George Bush and his attendant helicopters, secret 
service agents, and protesters furnished some competition, 
Trudeau's speech carried the Commencement weekend. Because 
so many of our readers could not be among the thousands on 
Old Campus for the chaos and circumstance of 1991 s 
Commencement Exercises, we excerpt the following from 
Trut:kau's Class Day Remarks: 
D
ean Kagan, Distinguished Faculry, Parents, Friends, 
Graduating Seniors, Secret Service Agents, Class 
Agents, People of Class, People of Color, Colorful 
People, People of Height, The Vertically Constrained, 
People of Hair, The Differently Coiffed, The Optically 
Challenged, The Temporarily Sighted, The Insightful, The 
Out of Sight, The Out ofTowners, The Eurocentrics, The 
Afrocentrics, Afrocentrics with Eurail Passes, The 
Eccentrically Inclined, The Sexually Disinclined, People of 
Sex, Sexy People, Sexist Pigs, Animal Companions, Friends 
of the Earth, Friends of the Boss, The Temporarily 
Employed, The Differently Employed, The Differently 
Optioned, People With Options, People With Stock 
Options, The Divestiturists, The Deconstructionists, The 
Home Constructionists, 
The 
Homeboys, The Homeless, The 
Temporarily Housed at Home, and 
God save us, The Permanently 
Housed at Home: 

In the spirit of the new plurality, I 
thought I'd begin today by trying to 
offend all of you all at once, in lieu of 
my usual practice of offending small, 
informal groups as I go along. If I have 
inadvertently left anyone out, I natu-
rally apologize for my insensitivity. 
I'd like to speak to you today 
about questions. About pertinent 
questions and impertinent questions. 
And where you might expect them to 
lead you. Of course, a lot of noise is 
part of the bargain. Outrageous decla-
rations and accusations will invariably 
fill the air. But I would argue that 
that's the whole point of a university-
it is a sanctuary where disputatiousness 
should not only be tolerated, it should 
be cherished. The university in this 
country has always been ahead of the 
curve-a subversive, trendy, noisy 
harbinger-a permanent California of 
the mind. 

That the national media have 
shown such concern of late about the 
state of civility on American campuses 
says more about the moral fatigue of 
middle-aged editors than the decline 
of tolerance on the quadrangles. Not 
that civility isn't a desirable social 
virtue-it is-but new ideas will 
always seem unruly and overstated, 
will always seem impertinent. When 
the founding fathers conceived of the 
First Amendment, it was not their 
intention to guarantee the right of any 
speaker to a respectful and tolerant 
audience. (Indeed, at the time, such 
audiences were rare.) Rather, they sim-
ply sought to protect the speaker from 
the censure of his government. 

What's lacking in the media's cur-
rent outcry is a sense of proportion. 
We are not talking about anything 
even remotely resembling a militant 
imposition of conformity in campus 
life. New York Magazinls Nazi book-
burning analogy does violence to both 
reason and history. Indisputably, there 
are ideologues on campuses today 
(what vanguard was ever rife with 
moderates?)-but they are found in 
abundance on both sides of current 
disputes (as the media would rediscov-
er if they checked their own clip files 
of only two years ago). 

The fact is, most of the new advo-
cates for change are not the scary cre-
ations currently haunting the public 
imagination. Many have made valu-
able and positive contributions to uni-
versity life. Moreover, what has been 
overlooked is that the traditionalists 
and the mulciculturalists have been co-
existing on most campuses for years. 

None of which is to downplay the 
natural tension that exists between the 
two. No doubt each of you at one time 
or another has felt intimidated by the 
struggle for the moral high ground. 
No one likes to be called a sexist. And 
what makes these epithets so difficult 
to refute is that they seem to contain 


within them an implied immunity 
from the burden of proof. 

Don't believe it. Reverse prejudice 
does exist, an<:{ it must be engaged as 
forcefully as the bigotry that is its pro-
genitor. To say that something is a 
black thing, or an Asian thing, or a 
female thing, and the outsiders 
wouldn't understand is to argue 
against the whole rationale of your lib-
eral arts education. 

Whether one studies Greek 
drama, Mayan architecture or 20th-
century Chinese politics, the whole 
point of your inquiry is to endeavor to 
see the world as others have perceived 
it. One's remoteness from the experi-
ence only argues for its enhanced value 
as a means for enlightenment. 

The white scholar who rules out a 
career in African history or the black 
scholar who feels pressure not to study 
and teach Shakespeare cheats not only 
the self but a future generation of stu-
dents who might be infected by his or 
her passion. 

When a distinguished black play-
wright argued in the N~ York Tim~s 
last year that a film of his work could 
only be made by a black director, he 
confounded his admirers. Never mind 
that the presence of women characters 
in his work made him vulnerable to 
his own logic-he seemed to have for-
gotten that the very task of fiction is 
about trying to characterize people 
who are not the author. 

Indeed, this is an essential truth of 
all art, not only in the creation of it, 
but in its subsequent appreciation. 
The need to empathize--and to share 
that empathy-is what makes learning 
and teaching. It is what drives the 
study of what we consider the classical 
canon of any culture. 

The good intentions of the young 
have always defined university life. 
Indeed, generations are characterized 
by their common moral debate. The 
indignant media mandarins might do 
well to remember that P.C. was alive 
and well during their years in college 
too. It wasn't called that then, but the 
campus liberation and anti-war move-


**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
to 
CLARK'S DAIRY 
Feanuing 35 ice cream flavors and 
an excellent choice of sandWiches 

CLARK'S PIZZA 
AND RESTAURANT 
''The Home of Quality Greek-American Food." 
Famous Greek Salads 
Moussaka•Souvlaki 
Gyros•Pizza•Subs 
Baklava•Cheese Cake 
Carrot Cake•Rice Pudding 
68-74 Whitney Avenue • 776-8465 or 777-2728 
Open 7 days a week for breakfast, lunch, and dinner 

**Title: Rosa DeLaura: Scaling Capitol Hill**
**Author: Jennifer Pitts**
**Page number(s): 12**

nly eight months into her first term as New 
Haven's congressional representative, Rosa 
DeLauro has made a reputation for herself as a pro-
fessional, not a newcomer to be coddled. "Rosa is clearly the 
best prepared person to represent her district of anybody 
I've seen in the dozen years I've been here," says 
Representative Sam Gejdenson (D-Connecticut), one of 
DeLauro's most ardent supporters. 

DeLauro spent 11 years in Washington, first as an aide 
to Senator Christopher Dodd (D-Connecticut) and then as 
director of several political organizations. Her time away 
from the district may have hurt her in the eyes of some con-
stituents-during last year's campaign, her opponent 
labeled her a "radical out-of-town feminist." But the politi-
cal experience she gained has served her well on the Hill. 

Colleagues note her eloquence on the floor as well as 
her involvement in a number of congressional groups. In 
addition to the requisite two committees, DeLauro belongs 
to several ad hoc groups, including the women's caucus, the 
urban caucus, and the Fair Trade task force. And she won a 
plum assignment when House Majority Leader Richard 
Gephardt (D-Missouri) appointed DeLauro to his "message 
group." The 15-member group formulates the Democratic 
position on key issues. 

At the start of the 1 02nd Congress, DeLauro's confi-
dent opinions and her obvious ease on Capitol Hill set her 
apart from the crowd. New members normally use their 
first few weeks to learn the maze of hallways that snake 
under Hill buildings and to establish contact with senior 
members of the House and Senate. Most of the other 44 
"freshmen" struggled to find their sea legs as they debated 
the ethics of war. "We were sworn in on January third, our 
offices opened on the seventh, and we immediately began a 
discussion of whether or not we were going to war," 
12 TH£ N£w JouRNAL 
DeLauro recalls. "The war set the tone for the entire term." 

DeLauro wasted no time on office administration. She 
leapt into action with a nationally broadcast speech against 
the use of force in the Persian Gul£ Despite the divisiveness 
of the issue, DeLauro feels the war united Congress as few 
issues can. "It was an extraordinary discussion," she says. 
"The vote on whether to use force caused the same kind of 
anguish for people who had been there a matter of days and 
for people who had been there 40 years." 

While she admits that no subsequent debate has carried 
the weight of the war vote, DeLauro welcomed the return 
to domestic issues. "This year we've debated issues of partic-
ular interest to me, like health insurance and reform of the 
health care system," DeLauro says. "It's a new debate, but 
'1t serves women across the country 
well that someone as highly respected 
and as able as Rosa is also a woman. " 
there are bills on the table, and Congress is going to move 
on this in the next couple of years." 

DeLauro aims to represent the middle class and the 
working poor. She wants more progressive taxes and health 
care, and she supports her words with action. Her first 
major piece of legislation, the Middle Class Tax Relief Act, 
champions those she refers to as "ordinary men and 
women." The bill provides tax breaks for all taxpayers in the 
15 and 28 percent brackets-under her bill a family of four 
earning $30,000 would save a third of their taxes. DeLauro 
plans to make up for the lost revenue by taking on the 
upper class. The bill includes a tax hike for top corporations 
S£PT£MB£1t 6, 1991 



**Rosa DeLauro: The Freshman Congresswoman**
**Author: Jennifer Pitts**
**Page number(s): 13-14**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
and a "millionaire's surtax" levied against people making 
more than $290,000. 

Democrats have noticed DeLaura's novel ideas. "When 
Rosa presented her bill she had the rapt attention of the 
Democratic caucus," says Rep. Nancy Pelosi (D-California). 
Senator Dodd already has included parts of DeLaura's bill 
in his own Senate legislation. Though her bill won't pass on 
its own, it may well factor into a Democratic proposal. 
Anxious to make their mark, many new representatives 
try to pass a bill to prove their effectiveness in Congress. 
Few bills pack the punch of DeLaura's, however. At one 
conference, while DeLaura discussed her proposed tax cuts, 
Larry LaRocco (D-Idaho) wanted to authorize silver medals 
for the soldiers of the gulf war. De~uro leaves such bills to 
other freshmen. 


DeLaura also wields clout as a defender of abortion 
rights. Her pro-choice credentials ~e in handy when Rep. 
David Bonior (D-Michigan), who opposes abortion, need-
ed a powerful voice to second his nomination for Majority 
Whip. DeLaura's seal of approval reassured reluctant pro-
choice colleagues and helped swing the election. 
"It serves women across the country well that someone as 
highly respected and as able as Rosa is also a woman," says Rep. 
Pdosi. "Rosa is one of the reasons we will increase the number 
of women in Congress." While politics remains a man's game, 
DeLaura has worked hard to earn women a place in govern-
ment. In 1989 she directed an organization called EMILY's List, 
which promotes Democratic, pro-choice women running for 
congressional office. EMILY's List, short for "Early Money Is 
Like Yeast-it makes the dough rise," identifies viable candi-
dates, provides funds, and teaches them how to run their cam-
paigns. "There are only 29 women out of 435 representatives, 
and only two women in the Senate," DeLauro says. "At this rate 
we'll see parity in maybe the next 400 years." 
SEPTEMBER 6, 1991 
"Other politicians parukr to the whims of the day. Rosa sets her 
course with her heart," says Senator Chris Dodd of DeLauro. 
hough women are still underrepresented in poli-
cs, DeLaura never lacked. a female role model. Her 
other Luisa, whom DeLaura calls her main inspi-
racion, has served New Haven as an alderwoman for 25 
years. In the predominantly Italian neighborhood where 
DeLaura grew up, her kitchen table served as a center for 
political debates and constituent concerns. Before the death 
of her father, Ted, in 1971, the community dubbed him 
"Mayor of Wooster Square" for his longtime position as 
alderman of the ward. 

In the mid-60s, several years out of Marymount 
College, DeLaura returned to New Haven to work with a 
grassroots group called the Community Action Institute in 
the Hill district. There she met her mentor, New Haven 


activist Frank Logue. DeLauro spent 
the next ten years working for Logue, 
who became New Haven's mayor in 
1976. 

As the mayor's executive aide, 
DeLauro achieved a high administra-
tive rank at a time when women were 
virtually absent from appointed office. 
The position provided essential experi-
ence for her work .in Washington. 
"You have to get an understanding of 
what local government is all about," 
she says. "That's where the rubber 
meets the road." 
DeLauro claims to 
represent the middle 
class and the working 
poor. 

DeLauro earned a reputation in 
Washington for brains and political 
savvy when she served as chief of staff 
and campaign manager for Senator 
Dodd from 1980 to 1987. After leav-
ing Dodd's office, DeLauro stayed in 
Washington to work for several advo-
cacy organizations. Connections she 
formed on the Hjll proved one of her 
most valuable assets. "In a legislative 
body, a lot of how you get things done 
has to do with interpersonal relation-
ships," she says. "If people know you 
and trust you, there's less to learn 
when you get to Congress-you can 
move that much more quickly." 

With support from Washington 
politicos, DeLauro entered the race for 
New Haven's congressional representa-
tive in November 1989. Called the 
"consummate political organizer," she 
quickly eliminated her Democratic 
opposition with an unmatched talent 
for fundraising and a surname that 
spelled ability to many New Haven 
voters. "She's a very talented politician 
from a formidable political family," 
says David Mayhew, Yale professor of 
political science. 

Her Republican opponent Tom 
Scott, a young state senator from


Milford, had ten years in elective office 
and a relish for heated confrontations. 
A better speaker than DeLauro, Scott 
repeatedly proposed debates that she 
declined. One of the few radio debates 
DeLauro granted disintegrated into 
chaos. As Scott shouted "You're an 
extremist and a radical, Rosa," 
DeLauro shrilled back, "Just relax, 
Tom, just relax!" In an attempt to stem 
the fury, the mediator, WELl's Steve 
Kalb, turned off the candidates' micro-
phones. 

Their increasingly antagonistic 
speeches reduced the candidates to 
conventional black-and-white posi-
tions on conventional campaign issues. 
Scott opposed gun control and abor-
tion; DeLauro favored defense spend-
ing cuts and universal health insur-
ance. As the New Haven Register wrote 
during the onslaught, "Ask Rosa 
DeLauro and Tom Scott the time of 
day and you'll probably get two differ-
ent answers." 

Despite a considerable campaign 
treasury 
and 
support 
from 
Washington bigwigs like former 
House speaker Tip O 'Neill, DeLauro 
edged out Scott by only 7000 votes 
and four percentage points-the 
smallest margin in the state. While 
many say the Democratic machine 
that has run New Haven for years is 
rusting, DeLauro captured more than 
three times as many New Haven votes 
as Scott. The city's support sent her to 
Washington. But the majority of the 
district's voters live in the suburbs, 
where Democratic candidates must 
struggle for enough votes to win. 
DeLauro sqeaked by last November, 
and her challenge next year will be to 
convince suburban voters that she 
speaks their mind. 

T
o prove her efficacy to her con-
stituents, DeLauro lobbied 
hard to land committee assign-
ments that would benefit her jurisdic-
tion. She won her two first choices: 
Government Operations and Public 
Works and Transportation. "You could 
just see that compared to other fresh-
men, Rosa stood out," says Gejdenson, 
who belongs to the group that awards 
committee assignments to freshmen. 
"In almost every instance, she was 
among the top vote-getters." 

DeLauro made a judicious step 
when 
she 
chose 
Government 
Operations, a watchdog over federal 
waste and abuse. The spot may pave 
her way to more important financial 
committees such as Appropriations 
and Ways and Means. "Government 
Operations has access to a great deal of 
information," says Rep. Pelosi, who 
served on the committee before mov-
ing onto Appropriations. "Like 
Appropriations it covers a very wide 
jurisdiction." 

''You could_just see that 
compared to other 
freshmen, Rosa stood 
out. , 

Gejdenson sees DeLauro as the 
promise of the Connecticut delega-
tion. "One of the disadvantages of a 
small state, especially one with the 
high turnover we've had, is that it's 
very hard to build up a powerful oper-
ation," he says. But Gejdenson 
believes that soon, perhaps next year, 
DeLauro will win a spot on the influ-
ential Appropriations Committee; she 
would be the first Connecticut 
Democrat to do so in many years. "I 
tried twice myself, and lost to people 
from more powerful states," he said. 
"But having somebody of Rosa's ability 
makes up for our lack of seniority. My 
only hope is that she stays here for a 
long time." 

jennifer Pitts, a senior in Calhoun 
College, is editor-in-ckiif of TN]. 


**Title: The Last Bastion**
**Author: Katherine McCarron**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Behind the locked doors of Wolf's Head, Yale's last all-male secret society, members have waged a civilized debate over coeducation for the last 22 years. While Skull and Bones broke ranks with its governing board last spring and forced coeducation upon its unwilling alumni, Wolf's Head prefers to act by consensus. This October, the society will vote again on coeducation, perhaps for the last time. 


To address the issue of admitting women to Wolf's Head, the Board of Governors established an internal committee on coeducation in the mid-1980s, which polls the membership at large with annual questionnaires. Though the committee periodically changes members, the current board is weighted in favor of men who graduated before Yale went coed. This year the six-man committee includes members from the classes of '45, '53, '54, '59, '75, and '90. 


As one of Yale's ten elite senior clubs, Wolf's Head initiates 15 men from each junior class on the last Thursday in April. Rumors abound about Wolf's Head tap rituals-on initiation weekend, the old members induct the taps in their Egyptian artifact-laden "Hall" and give each new member a name that traces back to the original group. Tradition dictates that the delegation meet every Thursday and Sunday in the windowless building on York Street, as it has since 1883. Like Yale itself, Wolf's Head thrived for over a hundred years on the money of its usually white alumni. However, much has changed at the Hall since then. Today the society, like the university, seeks diversity. Blacks, Jews, and gays have joined the ranks of the institution-Wolf's Head even installed ramps in the early 80s ro make the Hall wheelchair accessible. Despite these strides, at a coed Yale, diversity without women is a contradiction. 


Alumni worry that admitting women would ruin the unique Wolf's Head experience. The crux of the debate focuses on personal histories, during which each member shares his most intimate thoughts in an environment of privacy and confidentiality. A growing number of members feel that women are necessary to make the experience more than just male bonding. But for many alumni educated in single-sex schools, personal revelation can only occur in the all-male setting. "The experience as I recall it of bonding and sharing your innermost thoughts-I don't see that happening in a coed environment," said Thomas Sargent (BK '58), who attended Yale in the days before coeducation and spent his preparatory years at an all-male school. "There would be embarrassment and holding back." 


Appropriately, one of the earliest advocates of coeducation at Wolf's Head was the man who helped bring women to Yale. In 1968, Sam Chauncey (DC '57) rook a two-year leave of absence from his position as the secretary of Yale College to hammer out the details of admitting women. As a champion of Yale's coeducation, Chauncey thought he could usher Wolf's Head into the new age. Chauncey raised the issue every year when the delegations invited him to the Hall to speak at alumni dinners. He brought the debate before the Board of Governors at their quarterly meetings and needled alums on the faculty. His work resulted in two votes on coeducation-one in the mid-70s and one ten years later-but both failed to muster the necessary two-thirds majority to pass. "It's hard to ask people who aren't used to being radical to go out and risk their necks," Chauncey said. "I worked at it for ten years and failed miserably." 


For most alums, coeducation just is not a burning issue. Despite lobbying efforts from both sides, a majority remains indifferent. "Coeducation is probably a huge issue to the the 30 percent or so who are in favor of it and the 10 percent who are vehemently against it," said Christopher Forster (TC '54), the president of the Phelps Trust Association, Wolf's Head's corporate name. "That leaves 60 percent of the membership who don't feel as strongly." 


For those who want coeducation, the society's failure to admit women is an embarrassment. Yale's President Benno Schmidt, a Wolf's Head alum, refuses to enter the Hall or attend any of the society's functions because of the all-male policy. "Wolf's Head sets a stinking example for the rest of the undergraduates at Yale, which prides itself on liberal values of inclusion," Chauncey said. "I don't like the idea that we have a discriminatory institution in our midst." 


Sam Chauncey resigned from Wolf's Head after the society refused to go coed. 
Chauncey's argument hits home with the younger members of Wolf's Head. Many believe that if the society wants to attract its first-choice taps, it cannot continue to exclude women from its ranks. Paul Saint-Amour (PC '91) turned down the tap because Wolfs Head would not admit women. "I can't imagine why you would be less inclined to tell the story of your life in front of women," he said. "What better way to work out the complexities between the sexes than in a coeducated environment?" 


However, a small alumni faction still holds fast to the traditional line. They maintain a legalistic defense reminiscent of other all-male organizations-they claim a private club reserves the right to determine the makeup of its membership. So far their point of view has prevailed because single-sex proponents held most of the leadership positions in the organization in the past. 


Opposition at the top and indifference among the membership have kept Wolf's Head from admitting women. "I'm sure that the majority of the members believe it should be coed. But they aren't willing to take the time to fight the leadership." said Chauncey, who quit Wolf's Head in disgust after the failure of the 1984 vote. Even the President of Phelps Trust has opposed coeducation.


**Title: Wolf's Head Considers Coeducation**
**Author: Katharine McCarron**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
have not been in support of coeduca-
tion," Forster said. "I was definitely 
against it 15 years ago, but my support 
has warmed up over the years." 


Although Foster's views may have 
changed, single-sex diehards like Tom 
Sargent still have the ear of the Wolf's 
Head leadership. In a heartfelt letter to 
Forster [reprinted at right], he recalls 
his Wolf's Head experience with nos-
talgic fondness. As the father of two 
boys and a girl, Sargent wants to pre-
serve the all-male experience at the 
Hall for his sons, and would like to see 
his daughter join an all-female club. 


"I'd definitely like my son to be a 
member of an all-male society. It 
would be an experience he wouldn't 
get anywhere else," Sargent said. 
"Some of my classmates who were in 
other senior societies [that have gone 
coed since they graduated] said that in 
the coed environment, the experience 
was lost." 


Sargent hesitates to break with the 
past. Without experiencing coeduca-
tion personally, he fears the unknown 
for Wolf's Head. "To coeducationalize 
the experience would change it," 
Sargent said. "Not necessarily for the 
worse-it would just be different. " 


Many of the older alums are happy 
with the way Wolf's Head is. They do 
not want to concede Yale's last male 
bastion. 


But recently, pressure to admit 
women has increased dramatically. 
Skull and Bones was not the only 
society considering coeducation last 
spring. Wolf's Head voted on admit-
ting women last year too--but its pro-
posal failed. The Bones decision has 
forced the issue again this fall. Forster 
believes that times have changed at 
Yale, and that coeducation now stands 
a better chance of passing than it has 
before. 


With their ballots this October, 
members will receive a recommenda-
tion from the committee on coeduca-
tion. The committee decided against 
the usual method of including four 
"position papers" to spell out a spec-
trum of arguments. "I think people 
SEPTEMBER 6, 1991 
really know the issues by now," Forster 
said. "We just want to make it as sim-
ple as possible." The details of the rec-
ommendation are anyone's guess. 


"Basically the committee is in support 
of coeducation," Forster added. 
"Obviously, there are degrees of opi~-
uWolf's Head sets a 
stinking example for the 
rest of the 
undergraduates at 
Yale." 
ion, but the committee is in agree-
ment." 


Before Sam Chauncey resigned 
from the Hall, he proposed a "last 
resort" coeducation package that 
would have doubled the size of the tap 
class to include 15 men and 15 
women. Chauncey suggested that the 
men and women meet separately once 
a week. Then half the men and half 
the women would meet together on 
alternate Sundays. Ironically, Tom 
Sargent resurrected the major points of 
the plan earlier this year. "If the push 
to conformity is so great, then perhaps 
the way around this is to have two del-
egations and to share the building," 
Sargent said. "They could meet sepa-
rately for the personal histories and co-
mingle at other events." 


Such a compromise disappoints 
hard-liners on both sides of the coedu-
cation issue. It satisfies neither the pas-
sion of those who see the issue as an 
unambiguous fight against discrimina-
tion, nor the equally intense feelings of 
those who do not want their successors 
to miss the benefits of the hallowed 
"all-male experience." 

-
Kathain~ McCarron, a unior in 
Calhoun Co/kg~. is a managing ~ditor of 
TNJ. 


The following letter, to the 
president of Phelps Trust, is 
reprinted with. the permission of 
both parties. 

Dear Chris Forster: 
From my son, now a sophomore 
at Yale, I am following with 
great interest the •problems• at 
Skull & Bones. When and if we 
are the last to be all-male, the 
pressure to conform will esca-
late geometrically. 


There is an obvious role and 
need for an all-male experience 
like we all shared at the Hall. 
The pressures to conform are 
great in college, and the egali-
tarian spirit will never be 
quite the same as during this 
phase of life; however, 
the 
experience of Wolf's Head would 
never be the same either in a 
heterosexual environment, much 
to the detriment of the delega-
tion. The setting, the mood, the 
ambience, the camaraderie of the 
individuals would all be the 
different . And •different• is 
the operative word here. Thus 
will pass, once and for all, the 
opportunity for young men to 
share their innermost thoughts, 
aspirations, fears and dreams 
with each other in a unique and 
supportive environment. 


They 
don't know that yet, but some 
day at least some of them will. 
And it cuts both ways, which is 
why I would favor separate dele-
gations as the ultimate •solu-
tion• to the coed issue. 


The trend of the voting of 
the Association's membership, 
coupled with being the last of 
the societies to be all male, 
means that very soon Wplf's Head 
will join all the others at Yale 
and conform. In my view much 
will be lost by the Yale men and 
little gained by the Yale women 
other than to change the Wolf's 
Head experience from what it was 
to something entirely different. 


Yours in W.H.S., 
P. Thomas sargent, ' 58 

THE NEW jOURNAL 19


**Title: Words Them**
**Author: Erik Meers**
**Page number(s): 20**



**Title: Untitled**
**Author:  (No author listed)**
**Page number(s): 21**

19., a majo' bus<. Colton faced up w ni 
the loss of his bar. The week after the 
lawyer that he knew Konesky had 
Still, Patty continued as a regular 
stopping to gossip with Phil, 
was on to her. The day of her 
with Phil Colton's son Murray, a b 
recalled ... They said her eyes we.rcA:.nled out.,. 
· ves found di 
symbol for police 
body. Neighborhood 
their mouths shut. 
aw~ldl>n, the police investiga-
thl~6~reelks after the mwder. 
ca~linued unabated. Some 
had thrown her out 
death. The Kimberly 
newspaper c:ldivery 
;a.•l.h~ 
After the New 
unofficial invesriga-
.,.,.,..,·,""' Rumon persist-
without~ the 
garbage truck driver. That 
Phillip's umil closing. 
Patty as he took out 
of dae ~·:@: 
The next morning, 
career as 
infOrmant. TWICC-c1iiJf 
dugout a few blocks from 
ree boys found 
and ..... ~•~u• cookies at Pepc-s 
Patty's mutilated body. The boys ran in shock to Pepe's 
Market, always stopping to tell 
the day's news. Pepe 
Market, where Barbara Pepe heard the news ... They told me 
remembers Patty the day before 
"She was filling 
that there was a lady dead up the street at the ball field. All 
me in on some gossip. Su 
car pulled up. and she 
::=~:~~ .. :h.,. sPiilTiC'IIrr<o,;eSkY"··d th.,, r.. 
=~:~::: 


**Title: The Dugout Murder**
**Author: Murray Colton**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Patty was a regular at Don Phillip's [nternational Cafe. The owners son stands convicted of her murder. 
take them somewhere.' She went away 
for ten minutes, came back, and kept 
gabbing as if nothing unusual had 
happened." 

Street-wise and quick-witted, 
Patty learned to survive in the violent 
Kimberly Square area. When she 
moved there in 1986, many knew her 
as the only woman living alone in the 
neighborhood. She boasted of the 
time she broke a beer bottle over the 
head of a man who tried to pick a 
fight with her. Patty thought she could 
take care of herself. 

No stranger to hard times, Patry 
became pregnant with her only child 
at 15. She left her son Michael with 
her mother, ~ho ·raised him in 
Branford. Eventually Michael decided 
that he needed to meet Patty. "When I 
turned 16, I just wanted to find out 
who my mother was and why she 
didn't take care of me." He tracked 
down her address. When he went to 
Patty's house, a plain woman with 
straggly brown hair answered the door. 
"I asked her, 'Is Patty Konesky home?' 
She said 'No.' I told her to tell Patty 
that her son was here. She started cry-
ing.'' 

Michael moved in with his moth-
er for a month but rarely saw her. He 
would come home from work to a 
vacant apartment, Patry already off to 
the bars for the night. "One day I 
came home and she wasn't there. The 
locks were changed on the door," he 
said. Michael moved back to his 
grandmother's, occasionally writing 
and visiting his mother. Three days 
before Christmas 1986, Patty called 
her son to ask if she could move in 
with him. With two roommates, 
Michael didn't have space and reluc-
tantly said no. That was the last 
Michael heard from her. 

Frustrated by the gridlock in his 
mother's case, Michael opened his own 
investigation. "When I asked the New 
Haven Police what was going on with 
the case, they looked at me as if I 
should be telling them," he said. 
Michael walked the Kimberly Square 
streets searching for leads. 

On "the first anniversary of the 
murder, Michael called New Haven 
reporters to revive interest in the case. 
The media jumped on the story. Local 
TV and radio newscasts regularly fea-
tured segments on the unsolved 
"dugout murder." They noted that of 
the 23 murders in New Haven in 
1987, police had solved 22. Only 
Patty Konesky's case remained without 
a lead. The New Haven Register called 
her murder the most grisly crime of 
1987. Pressure mounted on the police 
to find a suspect. When the state 
offered a $20,000 reward for tips on 
the Konesky murder, Michael roamed 
through the Kimberly Square area 
posting signs with Patty's picture. 

The first break came two weeks 
later, when police arrested a friend of 
Patty's on prostitution charges. During 
routine 
questioning, 
Janice 
Tourangeau, a 40-year-old Kimberly 
Square regular, told police that she saw 
Phil Colton's son, Murray, and a sec-
ond unidentified man attack Konesky 
in the dugout. Tourangeau claimed 
that on the day of the murder she had 
begged Patty to let her in on a drug 
deal. When they met around midnight 
outside Don Phillip's, Patty told her to 
hide near the Kimberly Field dugout, a 
well-known drug den, and join her 
after she clinched the deal. 

From her view, behind a bush 
across the field from the dugout, 
Tourangeau claimed she saw Patty and 
Murray talking. Suddenly they both 
rose, and Murray struck Patty on the 
face. A second man sprung from 
behind the dugout and hit her from 
the back. As the men kicked Patty sav-
agely, Tourangeau said she fled the 
scene. 

Tourangeau worked as a prostitute 
on Kimberly Square to support her 
heroin habit. Far from the ideal wit-
ness, she was a product of the same 
drug culture as Patty. "Most of our 
informants tend to be involved with 
some criminal activity,,.. said Lt. 
Waring. "You can't know about crime 
unless you're close to it." Though 
Tourangeau conceded that she came 
forward for the reward money, she told 
police that she didn't really need it 
because she could hustle $2000 a week 
on the streets. At first, the police didn't 
believe her story. But it was the only 
lead in the murder, a.nd the police took 
what they could get. 

Once Tourangeau broke Kimberly 
Square's collective silence on the case, 
two new witnesses told the police that 
they had seen Patty walking with 
Murray in the direction of Kimberly 
Field at around midnight the night of 
the murder. A friend.of Towrangeau's 
claimed that the next night while 
watching a report about an unidenti-
fied woman murdered at Kimberly 
Field, Tourangeau had blurted out 
"that's Patty Konesky." 

Testimony by Murray Colton's ex-
girlfriend, Mariana Foster, proved 
more damning still. Colton had taken 
Foster to Don Phillip's on a date, beag-
ging that he owned the bar. When he 
conceded that he was only running the 
bar until his father finished serving 
time in prison, Murray explained, 
"Some bitch dropped a dime on my 
father-we took care of her, she got 
hers." 

But cracks developed in the prose-
cution's case when a friend of 
Tourangeau's told police that they had 
been together that night, and 
Tourangeau couldn't have seen the 
dugout murder. Jackie Boyles claimed 
that she and Tourangeau went on a 
heroin binge that day, partying at the 
Fremont Hotel all night. Despite the 
contradictory testimony, the state 
forged ahead in Murray Colton's pros-
ecution. The trial opened in the spring 
of 1990. With the conflicting stories 
of Tourangeau and Boyles, the jury 
voted 9 to 3 to convict Colton, but 
without the requisite unanimous ver-
dict the judge declared a mistrial. A 
second prosecution began in the fall, 
with similar evidence presented by 
both sides. The second jury came back 
with 9 to 3 vote to acquit. 

The prosecution knew they had to 
win the third trial because the state 
wouldn't foot the bill for a fourth. 
New attorneys represented both sides. 
The state prosecutor, Jim Clark, 
believed that he could get a conviction 
with the right jury and additional wit-
nesses. But Murray Colton's new 
lawyer, Ken Rosenthal, seemed equally 
determined to show the weakness of 
the state's case, based on the question-
able testimony of Janice Tourangeau. 

Defense attorney Rosenthal aimed 
to destroy Tourangeau's credibility 
with the jury. During his cross-exami-
nation, Rosenthal hammered ques-
tions at Tourangeau until she burst 
into tears. He demanded to know why 
she hadn't called for help or told her 
story until after the state offered the 
$20,000 reward. "I felt guilty for a 
long time for not calling anybody," she 
said, sobbing on the stand. In excruci-
ating detail Rosenthal portrayed 
Tourangeau as a conniving heroin 
addict and prostitute willing to do 
anything to get the reward money. 
"Their case rises and falls on the testi-
mony of this ad mined liar, this prosti-
tute, this junkie," Rosenthal told 
jurors. 

Rosenthal's hardball tactics to dis-
credit the informant seemed more like 
character assassination than defense. 
Prosecutor Clark attacked the local 
media for publicizing Tourangeau's 
"ancient history." Reportedly, she suf-
fered bouts of depression because of 
the intense media scrutiny during the 
three Colton trials. The N~w Havm 
Advocau ran a cover story reporting 
that Tourangeau was suicidal during 
her testimony in the first trial. "Janice · 
Tourangeau came forward and all the 
press wanted to do was trash her back-
ground, instead of looking at the per-
son who helped us get a vicious killer 
off the streets," said prosecutor Clark. 

New witnesses called by Clark sal-
vaged 
Tourangeau's 
reputation. 
Herbert Lee, a renowned forensic sci-
entist, told the court that his blood 
splaner analysis bore out Tourangeau's 
claim that two assailants attacked 
Konesky and that the victim lay on the 
ground for most of the attack. Most 
significantly, Lee's testimony con-
firmed that Konesky's skull fractures 
were consistent with kicks to the head. 
"Everyone knows that Konesky was 
stabbed 248 times. Tourangeau's story 
doesn't mention knives. If you wanted 
to frame someone for this murder your 
story would have knives in it," said 
prosecutor Clark. 

Lee displayed 24 color slides to 
illustrate his analysis in court. Michael 
Konesky bolted from his seat in the 
courtroom twice during the slide 
show. "It was the most difficult part of 
the trial. To see someone stabbed 248 
times, enlarged on a projection screen, 
is the most disgusting thing you could 
see in your life. Let alone that this per-
son was my mother. It made me sick." 

But the testimony of Murray's 
own father devastated the defense case. 
Phil Colton claimed that he and his 
son had been estranged since his drug




**Title:  Untitled**
**Author: Erik Meers**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
conviction and that Konesky's role in 
his arrest wouldn't have led Murray to 
kill her. He also told the court that 
after closing Don Phillip's on the night 
of the murd~r, he and Murray had 
driven together to the house of 
Murray's ex-girlfriend. Neither father 
nor son mentioned the story to police 
before the first tria!: Phil's testimony 
stretched the limits of believability. "I 
don't trust almost anything Phillip 
Colton said in the trial after he said his 
name, " said prosecutor Clark. "If 
you're estranged from your father you 
don't get into a car with him in the 
middle of the night to see if your ex-
girlfriend may be home." 

Phil Colton's credibility crumbled 
altogether after Jackie Boyles, the key 
defense witness, revealed that he had 
offered her money for helping his son. 
She told the court that she feared 
Colton-he cruised by her house sev-
eral times daily and propositioned her 
on the street while she hustled. Few 
believed Phil when he denied ever 
meeting Boyles. "The problem in our 
case is that the jury didn't like Phil 
Colton. They thought he was lying," 
said defense attorney Rosenthal. Still, 
the defense expected at least one juror 
would prevent Murray's conviction. To 
everyone's surprise, the jury arrived at 
a unanimous guilry verdict after only 
three hours. 

D
efense attorney Rosenthal 
casts Murray Colton's convic-
tion as the culmination of a 
witch-hunt by the New Haven Police, 
desperate to find someone to blame 
for the murder. "I think in cases of 
murder there's a tendency to believe 
that the system is doing the right thing 
-that someone has been apprehend-
ed," said Rosenthal. As Colton's 
lawyers prepare his appeal, Murray sits 
in the state penitentiary at Somers 
waiting for a hearing that isn't likely 
before next spring. 

After 
Murray's 
sentencing, 
Michael Konesky ventured back to 
Pepe's Market in Kimberly Square, 
Phil Colton's favorite afternoon haunt. 
SEPTEMBER 6, 1991 
"I just thought it was the last thing I 
had to do-to confront my mother's 
enemy," Michael said. He told Phil 
that his son had received 50 years-a 
' life sentence. M ichael turned and 
walked away as Phil yelled, "Are you 
happy now?" The question reverberat-
"How informants use 
their reward money is 
none of our business. J:l 
ed for Michael. During the three trials, 
he busied himself with aiding the pros-
ecution, but with Murray Colton in 
jail there is nothing more he can do for 
his mother. "I don't think you can ever 
get over a murder in your family. 
There's always a hole that will never be 
filled," Michael said. 

In 
May, 
a 
judge awarded 
Tourangeau $16,000 for her role in 
Murray 
Colton's 
conviction. 
Prosecutor Clark believes that she 
deserves the reward for risking her life. 
"Janice Tourangeau is the good citizen 
here. We always say, 'I wish someone 
would get involved. Why don't they?' 
It's because they're scared to death," 
Clark said. Tourangeau told the court 
that she hoped to escape the drug 
world that killed her friend Patry-she 
wanted to start a new life. 

But 
by 
July, 
police 
saw 
Tourangeau hustling, back on the 
streets of Kimberly Square. Friends 
report that Tourangeau spent most of 
the $16,000 on heroin, as Patry once 
had used her police rewards. While 
informants like Patty Konesky and 
Janice Tourangeau help the state con-
vict criminals, the New Haven Police 
continue to dose their eyes to the dev-
astation their money wreaks. 

**Title: PROFILE Beauty as the Beast**
**Author: Kathy Reich**
**Page number(s): 26**

F
our years at Yale left Naomi Wolf (BK '84) with some-
thing of an identity crisis. "It's a co-ed institution but 
a male culture," she says. "There's a willful excising of 
women from the literary and historical record at Yale." Wolf 
saw women excluded everywhere--from the statues around 
campus, from the ranks of tenured faculty, from Donald 
Kagan's course on Classical Greece. "He left women out of 
antiquity," she claims. "It's like they were never there." 
Wolf worked hard to earn a place in Yale's academic tra-
dition. She graduated with honors as an English major and 
won a Rhodes Scholarship for good measure. She thought 
she'd made it in the Ivy League world. She thought she'd be 
accepted as just one of the brains. 
She was wrong. One evening at Oxford a male student 
casually remarked that she'd won the Rhodes only because 
of her looks. "I talked to other women Rhodes Scholars, 
c7 never suggested theres something 
wrong with adornment, with 
looking good. " 
and they'd all had the same experience," Wolf says. "I began 
to realize that mine was not an isolated experience, but that 
this was systemic. This is the way men relate to intelligent 
women. In male centers like Yale and Oxford, we're always 
being asked to apologize for power with beauty." 
The incident so rankled Wolf that she abandoned her 
doctoral dissertation for two years to immerse herself in 
research about women and beauty. And in the end, she 
became convinced that a conspiracy exists to keep women 
enslaved to beauty, away from the corridors of power. "The 
conspiracy acts as hypnosis to keep women from con-
fronting material issues," she claims. 
Wolf depicts that conspiracy in Th~ &auty Myth: How 
lmag~s of B~auty Art> Used Against WOmm. She contends that 
during the 1960s, when women asserted their indepen-
26 THE NEw j ouRNAL 
dence and found an identity outside the home, society had 
to create something new to keep them subjugated. While 
society has always valued a woman's beauty as her most pre-
cious asset, the trend persists today in more subtle, yet 
destructive, ways. "The beauty myth has gotten more dan-
gerous over the centuries," Wolf claims. "What makes it dif-
ferent from corsets or foot-binding is that we're supposed to 
be free now." 
Accord ing to Wolf, the diet and cosmetics industries 
gave birth to the modern beauty myth, which flourished in 
the new image culrure of television, videos, and glossy fash-
ion magazines. She claims that the beauty myth has devas-
tated affluent women in the United States and Europe. "In 
cultures where material constraints like poverty keep 
women down, the beauty myth is tangential," she says. 
"Where women get rich, something has to keep them from 
acting rich." By forcing women to pursue an unattainable 
ideal of beauty, American society robs them of their time 
and energy, stalling the women's movement. "Activism takes 
energy and self-esteem," Wolf says. 
Wolf, who nearly died of anorexia when she was 13 
years old, found writing The Beauty Myth cathartic. "It was 
an incredibly liberating experience," she says. "Bright young 
women in our culture are always made to feel that their 
achievements are not enough, that they can't base their 
identity solely on their will and hard work." 
Wolf's ideas evidently have struck a nerve among 
women. Her book, published this spring, hit the bestseller 
lists in both the United States and Britain, .and its 28-year-
old author has become a media star. Ms. magazine excerpted 
her work, and Tim~ analyzed Wolf in a full-page profile 
before her book even hit the stores in the U.S. In a few 
short months, Th~ Btauty Myth topped the heap as one of 
the most talked-about femin ist polemics since Betty 
Friedan's Tht hminint Mystiqut. "Much of what she was 
saying didn't sound new to me, but for younger women ir 
may have come as a fresh revelation," says Yale history pro-
fessor Cynthia Russett, who once taught Wolf in a course 
(continued on pagt 28) 


**Title: BOOK REVIEW The Feminine Mistake**
**Author: Cathy Corman**
**Page number(s): 27**

Th~ B~auty Myth: How lmagu of B~auty Ar~ Uud Against 
W&mm. Naomi Wolf. William Morrow, 348 pages. $21.95. 
C
asting themselves in Senator Lloyd Bentsen's role at 
the 1987 vice-presidential debates, book reviewers 
across the land have stared down Naomi Wolf and 
told her that they know Betty Friedan- and she is no Betty 
Friedan. 
Like Dan Quayle (the target of the original remark), 
Wolf (BK '84), author of the recently published feminist 
polemic Th~ &auty Myth, begs the comparison. Recalling 
Friedan's unhappy homemaker in the 60s blockbuster Th~ 
F~minin~ Mystiqu~. Wolf writes that in the 80s "the gaunt, 
youthful model supplanted the happy housewife as the 
arbiter of successful womanhood." Just when women man-
aged to break down professional and personal barriers, a 
male-dominated, anti-feminist culture manufactured new 
obsessions to keep women from enjoying their hard-earned 
jobs, salaries, and sexual freedoms. 
Feminism has stalled, Wolf argues, because young 
women, exhausted from simultaneously overachieving at 
work and battling fat and wrinkles at home, lack the energy 
to demand equal pay or affordable childcare. Just as their 
mothers had to overcome exhortations to wash whiter 
whites, these young women in the 90s must overcome 
media-induced pathological obsessions with body size and 
shape. 
Reviewers, including playwright Wendy Wasserstein 
(MFA '76) and Friedan herself, have belittled Wolf's 
attempt to equate the policicizacion of beauty with women's 
oppression, or what Friedan called "the problem that has no 
name." What is this talk of dimpled flesh and low self-
esteem, reviewers seem to ask. Haven't we got better things 
to worry about? Writing for the Los Ang~iuTim~s, 
Wasserstein echoes these sentiments. Wolfs argument, she 
writes, is interesting but ultimately "not earth-shaking"-
and it cerrainly can't hold a candle to Th~ F~minin~ 
Mystiq~'s potential to spark a revolution. 
· 
(contin~d on pag~ 31) 



**The Beauty Myth Controversy**
**Author: [Not specified]**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
(continued from page 26)
on women in America. "I was really 
surprised at how much it was discussed-it was a publishing event." 

Not all of the media hype has 
favored Wolf. Critics charge her with 
hyperbole, especially in comparing the 
-eating disorders epidemic to the 
Holocaust. Older feminists have criticized 
the book for lacking originality. 
Author Susan Brownmiller discussed 
the same themes in her book 
F~mininity, written nearly two decades 
ago. "When I read The B~auty Myth in 
galley proofs, I had a very personal 
reaction to it, because I felt like I'd written 
it before," Brownmiller recalls. "But 
I didn't disagree with anything she said, 
and it's always nice when someone new 
says things over again and adds a new 
perspective to the issues." 

Other critics attack Wolf for ignoring 
women's role in perpetuating the 
beauty myth. "I probably should have 
devoted more time to that," Wolf 
admits. "Women have always been 
used to police other women-it's standard-
issue patriarchal practice. But 
everyone is blaming women right now. 
I wanted to get away from that." 

By far the most stinging criticism 
of Th~ B~auty Myth has come from 
Betty Friedan, the mother of the 1960s 
women's movement, who attacked 
Wolf as anti-beauty. "As a good old 
feminist," Friedan wrote this spring in 
Ailur~ magazine, "let me say categorically 
that I do not believe ... feminism 
requires turning your back on love, 
men, marriage, children or even the 
frivolous desire to adorn and attract." 

Friedan's criticism both surprised 
and confused Wolf. "I just 
wish she'd attacked me for a book I'd 
written," Wolf says. "I never suggested 
there's something wrong with 
adornment, with looking good. I 
don't hate beauty. The bad part 
about the beauty myth is not when a 
woman puts on eyeshadow. The bad 
part is when she gets or loses a job 
because she puts on eyeshadow. The 
bad part is when she feels invisible 
without it." 

SEPTEMBER 6, 1991


Wolf attributes part of Friedan's 
criticism to a generational gap among 
feminists. "The difference between 
the 1960s and now is image culture," 
she says. "That's a material force in our 
lives, and it's something women like 
Betty Friedan can't understand." 

Indeed, Wolf and her theories are 
riding a wave of popularity among 
young women. Across the country, as 
she speaks at schools, appears on talk 
shows, and grants interviews to 
newspapers, women confess their 
beauty nightmares to her. "Probably 
two-thirds of the journalists who 
have interviewed me admitted they 
once had an eating disorder," Wolf 
says. "I get letters saying 'You saved 
me from having a face-lift,' or 'I was 
just able to eat my first meal in three 
years with your book propped in 
front of me."' 


Wolf claims that her book has 
affected not just individuals but also 
society as a whole. In Th~ Beauty Myth 
she takes aim at the false claims of the 
-cosmetics industry; two weeks after 
her book appeared, the Food and 
Drug Administration announced a 
crackdown on such advertising, after 
turning a blind eye to it for 40 years. 
"And images of women in magazines 
are starting to change," Wolf says. "I 
think the editors of women's magazines 
are having their consciousness 
raised." 

Wolf hopes that the controversy 
she has engendered will provoke a 
"third wave" of feminism among 
young women in America-and 
among young men. "I don't target 
male sexuality or men, just men in 
institutions," she says. "I think men 
can do a lot to dispel the beauty myth. 


**Title: Naomi Wolf's Beauty Myth**
**Author: Kathy Rich**
**Page number(s): 31-32**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
.............__ 
Advertisers are feeding women a line, 
saying that this concept of beauty is all 
men want. The more men distance 
themselves from the beauty myth, the 
better off we'll all be." 
But ultimately, Wolf wants 
women to free themselves. ''I'm hop-
ing that speaking up will make it easier 
for thousands of women to speak out 
across the country. I certainly don't 
think I'm alone. But we're up against 
something insidious on college cam-
puses, where women's struggle has 
been marginalized into women's stud-
ies and women's centers." 
Wolf finds the problem particular-
ly acute at Yale. Because coeducation 
occurred so recently, she charges that 
women's lives and concerns fall victim 
to indifference and neglect. "Women 
are still only five percent of the 
tenured faculty," she says. "Yale sits 
passively by while one-fifth of its 
women starve themselves. The institu-
tion welcomes our brains but rejects 
our bodies." 
Wolf continues to fight for the 
day when Yale and all of society accept 
women for themselves. She is trying to 
finish her dissertation-on how male 
and female writers use concepts of 
beauty in 19th century English litera-
ture. But she hopes to start a young 
feminists' forum for the New York 
Times. She has solicited articles from 
women like screenwriter Callie 
Khouri, author of Thelma and Louise. 
Wolf hopes that high-profile, self-pos-
sessed young feminists will break 
down the stereotypes of 60s feminists 
and launch a new movement of their 
own. "There's room in feminism for a 
plurality of viewpoints, from separa-
tion to assimilation," Wolf says. "If 
women don't like the way feminism is 
being defined, they should take it back 
for themselves." 
..,. 
Kathy &ich, a junior in Pierson Colkge, 
is a managing editor ojTNJ. 
SEPTEMBER 6. l99l 
(continued from page 27) 
Reviewers, I think, have missed 
two important points in their energet-
ic efforts to demonstrate just how far 
short Wolf falls of Friedan. First, they 
have overlooked a shortcoming that 
The Feminine Mystique and The Beauty 
Myth share-one that makes Naomi 
Wolf an excellent candidate to fill 
Betty Friedan's pumps. Second, they 
don't give Wolf enough credit for try-
ing to start a "third wave" of feminism, 
even if she is misguided in her assess-
ment of what might spark that wave. 
As to the similarities between The 
Beauty Myth and The Feminine 
Mystique, both books call for a 
renewed commitment to feminism bur 
make their cases by examining the 
plight of elite, educated women. Any 
revolution that either of these books 
spawns probably will exclude a broad


**Title: A Critique of Naomi Wolf's *The Beauty Myth***
**Author: Cathy Corman**
**Page number(s): 33**

W
ile I feel compelled to 
efend Wolf's ideas, much 
emains to criticize. The 
book is wildly uneven, a sociological 
mishmash of random data and razor-
sharp, first-person observations that a 
devoted editor might have streamlined 
into a 
focused 
tour 
d~ fora. 
Unimpeded by such an edicor, Wolf 
lumbers along, bolstering her argu-
ments with strings of unsurprising 
statistics gleaned from contemporary 
newspapers and magazines. The over 
kill of Wolf's scaciscics leaves me posi-
tively dizzy when she explains that 
women work twice as hard as men. 
Does she really need to offer no less 
In the 80s, cthe gaunt, 
youthfol model 
supplanted the happy 
housewife as the arbiter 
of successful 
womanhood. " 
than cwo dozen unrelated bits of infor-
macion to convince me that most men 
don't do housework? 
In an effort co keep the statistics 
under control, Wolf cries to sweep 
facts and figures into tidy piles, each of 
which she labels with a cutesy catch-
phrase, making her prose sound per-
ilously like the ad copy she repudiates. 
The most irritating-Iron Maiden, 
Beauty Back.Jash, Professional Beauty 
Quotient, Church of Beauty, and The 
One Stone Solution-serve as vacuous 
signposts. I have a hunch that the 
phrases serve as a kind of internal 
shorthand for Wolf, but they only 
confuse readers, who constantly have 
to refresh their memories as to what 
these phrases mean. 
The catch phrase that troubled me 
most was the Beauty Mych, itself. 
Three hundred and fifty pages of text 
from scare co finish, and I still do not 
understand how Wolf's paradigm 
SEPTEMBER 6. 1991 
works as myth. In the popular press, 
writers use "myth" interchangeably 
with "lie" (as in: it's a myth that 
women derive more sexual pleasure 
from men with large penises). On one 
hand, Wolf doesn't use the media's def-
inition of myth-and yet, she doesn't 
employ a more traditional, academic 
definition either. Although she makes 
passing reference in an endnote to 
myth theorist Bronislaw Malinowski 
and says several times chat the Beauty 
Myth tells a story, the story itself 
remains unclear. 
Women are told (and Wolf never 
makes clear by whom) the "lie" that 
success and power belong to the beau-
tiful, which these days translates as 
young and rail-thin. Like Susan 
Brownmiller's "femininity," the Beauty 
Myth is a powerful cultural construct 
that shapes women's sense of them-
selves. Wolf does a good job of 
describing how women consume that 
construct, but she never explains how 
the construct is produced. Her inabili-
ty to explain cultural production car-
ries over to the final pages of the book, 
when she asks readers co make a "new 
myth" -to redefine beauty in healthi-
er, more realistic terms. Although she 
writes that women can "provoke" a 
mass culture by becoming bored with 
standard images of beauty, she offers 
little in the way of concrete suggestion 
as to how to bring about this provoca-
tion. One possibility, communal 
nakedness, struck me as positively 
nutty. 
Who really knows what it would 
take to "provoke" a whole new culture? 
Wolf doesn't have the answer, but 
maybe that's not so important. I hope, 
even if she doesn't provoke a new cul-
ture or a third wave, she'll at least have 
provoked readers' anger at a misogy-
nistic culture. 
-
Cathy Corman is a frulanu r~porur 
and a third-y~ar graduau stud~nt in 
Ammcan Studi~s. 

Planned Parenthood 
of Connecticut 
\Ve listen! 
For friendly, confidential, 
affordable reproductive 
health care call Planned 
Parenthood at 865-0595 
48 Howe Street (YWCA) 
New Haven

$1 OFF ANY FOORONG SUB 
11 Broadway( next to Demery's) 
1179 Chapel St.( corner Chap~l & Park) 
15 Whitney Ave. 
Limit: One coupon per customer per 
vasit Not good in combination with any 
other offer. Offer expires: 10/6191 



**Title: Journalism Under Fire**
**Author: Melissa Turner**
**Page number(s): 34-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I
t took more than a month for mi dreams to reflect my 
life in the Philippines. It didn't matter what I'd seen or 
done in those dramatically nc:_w surroundings; I could 
count on old friends to accompany me in my dreams at 
night. Every time I fell asleep, vivid scenes would feature the 
cast of family and friends I had left in the States. When the 
Philippines finally did seep into my mind, the comforting 
and familiar plots of my dreams changed long before the 
characters did. 

I moved to Manila in October, 1989. I had been an 
infrequent visitor in the past, my travels there never lasting 
more than a few weeks. This time I planned to stay a while. 
Perhaps three years, maybe longer. Having worked as a 
reporter in Washington since I left Yale, I couldn't tell 
whether I was becoming disenchanted with covering the · 
federal government or with journalism itself. I hoped that 
the new environment would feed my curiosity and boost 
my waning enthusiasm. In any case, I was looking for an 
adventure. 

As it turned out, I came home from the Philippines 
only four months after leaving. In many ways, I felt as if I 
had never gone away. Nothing appeared to have changed in 
my absence; I was not a Rip van Winkle returning to an 
unrecognizable home. Nevertheless, I no longer fit comfort-
ably into the space I had occupied. The short trip had given 
me an opportunity to reflect on my life, and as I continue 
to be shaped by the decisions I made in Manila, I always 
will be reminded of the importance of those brief months. 

The experience is why I am not now reporting in a 
newsroom, but sitting in a lecture hall in my first week of 
medical school classes. 

A peculiar culture thrived in Manila. Prominent 
national newspaper editors and political columnists gath-
ered several times a week to gossip with former politicians 
and military leaders who remained well-connected and 
powerful. Invited to some of these informal and innocuous-
looking assemblies in popular hotel coffee lounges, I heard 
casual speculation about upcoming plans to overthrow the 
civilian government by military coup. Media-crazed indi-
viduals aggressively sought interviews with me. They 
believed they would inherit power after the government fell 
and their reputations would improve if the foreign, and in 
particular the U.S., press rook their ideas seriously enough 
to print. 

Although at times the attention I received as a reporter 
\\as distasteful, I generally enjoyed the advantages that came 
with my srarus. My U.S. press credentials gave me authority 
to ask questions of people generally inaccessible to the pub-
lic, while my Filipino heritage, family, and friends gave me 
intimate access to the culture. The combination helped me 
both as a foreign correspondent and as I tried to learn about 
the country in which my mother was raised. The dual alle-
giance, however, later undermined my success as a journalist. 

Did my role as an observer satisfY me? 
Did my career reflect my values? 

Just four weeks after I heard rhe first rumors of military 
rebellion, thousands of frustrated soldiers staged a violent 
coup that came perilously close to overthrowing President 
Corazon Aquino's government. I watched from my bed-
room window at dawn one morning as World War II vin-
tage 'Iora-Tora planes flew over che military base across the 
Street from my uncle's house, dropping their earth-shaking 
loads on the burning buildings beneath them. 

Pleased to have something \vorthwhile to report on, I 
updated my editors in the Scares every hour by phone. I 
thought I had an important role in a dramatic event. 

Renewed attacks brought modern jet bombers and vigorous


--- Page 35 ---

anti-aircraft gunfire. Confrontations 
between rebel- and government-con-
trolled tanks destroyed office buildings 
across the highway. Fighting grew 
fierce and killed dozens of civilians. 
U.S. warplanes criss-crossed over the 
city to show support for the Aquino 
government and to intimidate the 
mutineers. 

New to war, I couldn't imagine 
when or how it would end. Like a child 
who believes that she will always 
emerge u nscathed from dangerous 
p redicaments, I observed the events 
with some detachment. T he sense of 
security that came with being a U.S. 
newspaper reporter added to my per-
ception that I was invulnerable. 

Despite irs proximity, the war 
remained a distant notion to me. I 
could have been watching a movie. 
Little by little, however, the movie-like 
veneer of my experience dissolved. My 
frightened young cousins began crying; 
my aunt and her mother prayed aloud 
for the fighting to stop. Because battles 
had been waged before in my relatives' 
middle-class neighborhood during 
other coup attempts, my uncle recog-
nized that rhe fighting this rime would 
nor end by nightfall. We packed our 
bags and left. 

When we returned three days later, 
we fou nd o ur neighborhood ran-
sacked. Rebel troops and government 
forces both had used it as their head-
quarters. Some houses had been 
destroyed and looted, their windows 
b roken and walls riddled with bullet 
holes. Dried pools of blood marred 
kitchen floors. Government soldiers


--- Page 36 ---

filled narrow residential streets; they 
toted machine guns, rode tanks, and 
cleaned howitzers. Overwhelmed by 
the sight, I walked among the troops 
but couldn't bring myself to speak to 
them. I felt like a visitor on another 
planet. 

Although the coup was put down. 
after one week, it left an indelible 
impression on me. I felt embarrassed 
by my earlier cavalier reaction to the 
uprising. War and its accompanying 
uncertainties were no longer remote 
concepts. By the time I could sleep 
again, even my dreams had absorbed 
the chaos and instability surrounding 
me. In them, friends and family from 
home split into hostile gangs that ran 
through the streets, senselessly hunting 
each other down. Terrified and help-



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Melissa Turner**
**Page number(s): 37-38**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
less, I would scream at them to stop. I 
awakened before I could imagine the 
violence. 

As the immediacy of the coup dissipated, the turmoil encouraged 
strange new anxieties to gnaw at me. 
The fact that I could not have full control over my life had made itself abundantly clear to me for the first time. 
Events far beyond my reach could 
drastically change the course of my 
Some houses had been 
destroyed and looted, 
their windows broken 
and walls riddled with 
bullet holes. 

stable existence or, for that matter, 
could end it. An obvious truth, though 
I had previously given it little thought. 
Questions more typical of mid-life 
crises now occupied me. Did my role 
as an observer satisfy me? Did my 
career reflect my values? If I were to 
die tomorrow would I feel that I had 
pursued my true interests? Would I 
have made positive contributions to 
society, or neutral ones? This small 
dose of the world's chaos convinced 
me of the importance of making my 
ephemeral life meaningful and purposeful; it inspired me to try even 
harder to shape it. 

Half-heartedly reporting, I 
explored Manila with new 
eyes. Several million too 
many people inhabit the huge 
metropolis; they jam its streets 24 
hours a day with buses, cars, bicycles, 
jeeps, motorcycles, horses and buggies, 
and rickshaw-like carriages pulled 
along by boys and men riding bicycles. 
As I walked, all manner of vehicles 
clotted the humid air with grayish-
green soot. Hundreds of thousands of 
flimsy homes made from corrugated 
tin, cardboard, used tires, and discarded 
plywood lined all the major thoroughfares. Behind them, often, lay 
fetid open sewers that overflowed during 
the rainy months. 

Whole communities shared single 
running faucets; water splashed me as 
I passed bathers sponging themselves 
off only a few steps away. There were 
other sidewalk perils. Deep, stinking 
holes were left in the pavement by 
missing manhole covers, stolen and 
sold to be melted down. Half-naked 
toddlers crouched on the street curb to 
relieve themselves in the gutter. Filthy 
and malnourished children banged on 
car windows at stoplights to ask air-
conditioned passengers for money. I 
could not ignore these sights. 

I had seen such extreme poverty 
before, but I never had considered it, 
beyond a vague intellectual sense, as 
part of my world. This time I let it 
affect me. Walking through the streets 
in Manila, I found it relatively easy to 
regain a perspective on my life--easier, 
anyway, than I think it would have 
been had I continued to work 12 
hours a day behind a desk with a computer. Against this backdrop I decided 
to leave journalism and enter 
medicine. 

Lacking a compelling reason to go 
to medical school after my senior year 
in college, I had put aside my childhood 
plans to become a doctor. But 
those expeditions through Manila 
rekindled my interest. They served as a 
dramatic reminder of the great needs 
that exist in worlds outside my own 
sheltered one, and of the importance 
of trying to respond to them. 

Now, 18 months after returning 
to the States, I still feel inspired to 
embark on a new career that I believe 
will be of greater help to those who are 
in need. I will consider myself fortunate 
indeed if my life continues to 
reflect my dreams of Manila. 

Melissa Turner (TD '87) was editor-in-
chief of TNJ before working as a news-
paper reporter from 1987 to 1990. She 
is now a first-year medical student at 
Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, 
Maryland.


**Title: Yale Symphony Orchestra 1991-1992 SEASON PROGRAM**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 39**

Yale Symphony Orchestra 

Unku tJtl.rwi.sl 'Nikti Ail~ 
~"~a~ 8PM IU Wt»iuy HAil. Gmnwi 

tic/ut1 wiO b, ,,,tUJ.hu'" 
IMM.rwi" 1M Y.USymp~ 
Offia. R-m JD4• Hnu/rU HQ/1, r6$ 
ElM SlruL FtW '*'" inf~rr. 
p/du QIJJ 4J~-4141J. 

',ro~~ 1991-1992 
SEASON 
PROGRAM 
PRIDAY OCTOBER 11 
Ravel D~tplmis ~ 
ChltJi 
Admisswn: s2..oo 
H.C. Band Omemt~ for Orchestr•- U.S. Prnn~ 
R. Schumann Symphony No. J 
THURSDAY OCTOBBR31 
Halloween Concert at Midnishc 
&uu/J ChapJ 
AJmisswn: $J.OO 
SATURDAY NOVEMBER 16 
AJmisswn:S%.00 
J.S. Bach Brlllllimbvrt C411uru NtJ. I 
R. Sttauss ObH Omemt~, LirA Goiuirr. tJboi# 
CilnzD111l 
Musi& for Stri":S• PtnUSJio, •"" ulm; !~ .._ 
PRIDAY DECEMBER 6 
With tlu Yllie ~m 
&uui 
Stravinslcy Rite DfSP'!"t 
AJmisswn: SJ.OO 
SATURDAY PEBRUARY I 
AJmisswn: S%.00 
Elgar Vwli11 Omento. H.J44,. Marti111tm. vwLinist 
A. Glana. WtJri.J Premin-e 
Gershwin A11 Amni&1111;,. PAris 
SATURDAY PEFEBRUARY 1.9 
BnujU Yr~&m wah DYLANA JENSON f'ld UJI.tJist 
Wagner Ovnnur u Dw Mnstn1int" 
T c:haikovsky VUJ!m CMt&n-u 
Beethovat Symplxmy No. 7 
Tieluts: s~o.oo. sr2..oo IUIIi sl.oo 
SATURDAY APRIL 2.f 
Milhaud LA CtwaUm J, MtJIIM 
Ives ~~ 
PIMn m NnJ~ £,~ 
Prokovidf Symphtmy No. r 
A4misswn: s2..oo 



**Title: None**
**Author: None**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
0 
1 Hour 
Color Print 
Film 
Developing 
EJ-Wil 
11
D 
AREA'S MOST EXCITING PHOTO CENTER 
DOWNTOWN 
930 Chapel Street 
(Corner of Temple) 
New Haven, CT• 624-2599 
WES1VILLE 
1440 Whalley Avenue 
(Jet. of Rts. 63 & 69, Exit 59 off Merritt) 
New Haven, CT•389-1447 

