Publication date: October 17, 1986
Volume: 19
Issue number: 2


**MASTHEAD:**
- Publisher: Margarita Smith
- Editor-in-Chief: Melissa Turner
- Business Manager: Barrie Seidenberg
- Managing Editors: Jay Carney, Tamar Lehrich
- Designer: Beth Callaghan
- Production Manager: Stu Weinzimer
- Photography Editor: Carter Brooks
- Associate Business Manager: Beth Cohen
- National Sales Manager: Peter Lefkowitz
- Associate Editors: Dan Waterman
- Circulation Manager: Debbie Rosier
- Staff: Tom Augst, Bronwyn Barkan, Margaret Bauer, James Bennet, Martha Brant, Jen Fleissner, Alison Gardy, Peter Zusi, Pearl Hu, Susan Orenstein, Jen Sachs, Karen Shen, Lori Sherman, Mike Sonnenblick, Yin Wong
- Members and Directors: Edward B. Bennett III, Henry Chauncey, Jr., Peter B. Cooper, Andy Court, Brooks Kelley, Michelle Press, Fred Strebeigh, Thomas Strong
- Friends: Anson M. Beard, Jr., Edward B. Bennett, Jr., Blaire Bennett, Gerald Bruck, Jonathan M. Clark, Louise F. Cooper, James W. Cooper, Peter B. Cooper, Jerry and Rae Court, David Freeman, Geoffrey Fried, Sherwin Goldman, John Hersey, Brooks Kelley, Roger Kirwood, Andrew J. Kuzneski, Jr., Lewis E. Lehrman, E. Nobles Lowe, Peter Neill, Julie Peters, Fairfax C. Randall, Nicholas X. Rizopoulos, Arleen and Arthur Sager, Dick and Debbie Sears, Richard Shields, Thomas Strong, Elizabeth Tate, Alex and Betsy Torello, Allen and Sarah Wardwell, Peter Yeager, Daniel Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**

Crossroads: August 1986
Challenge From the Left
Ready to Listen
Leaving Solidarity Behind
Mirror Images
All the Right Stuff


**Title: Crossroads: August 1986**
**Author: Mark Gevisser**
**Page number(s): 4**

A Yale senior, Mark Gevisser, who visited the Crossroads refugee camps in his 
home country, South Africa, offers his perspective on the present crisis there.


**Title: Challenge From the Left**
**Author: James Bennet**
**Page number(s): 10**

Ready to fill the vacuum of opposition to New Haven's Democrats, the Green 
Party fared surprisingly well in last year's elections. But even with a concrete 
platform and grass-roots spontaneity, the Greens may only be political 
outsiders looking in.


**Title: Ready to Listen**
**Author: Jen Sachs**
**Page number(s): 16**

For the past decade, Walden Student-to-Student Counseling has been 
struggling against obscurity. This year's members, however, have reorganized 
and are determined to make Walden a viable alternative to UHS.


**Title: Leaving Solidarity Behind**
**Author: Bronwyn Barkan**
**Page number(s): 22**

When Andrzej Slominski came to the United States from Poland in 1984, he 
said goodbye to his family, friends and the Solidarity movement, which he had 
helped to create. Now he reflects on his involvement with the underground 
organization and his new life in New Haven.


**Title: Mirror Images**
**Author: Claire Messud**
**Page number(s): 28**

David Leavitt ('83), the literary wonder whose first book of short stories was 
widely acclaimed, has come out with his first novel; semi-autobiographical, it 
concerns the relationship between a gay man and his father.


**Title: All the Right Stuff**
**Author: Alison Gardy**
**Page number(s):  (Page number missing from provided text)**

Take some wit, a bit of tragedy, and a drop of old-fashioned sincerity. Yale's 
Boykin Curry (BR '88) and Brian KasbGr (BR '88) show America's high 
school seniors how to write the college application essay.


**Crossroads: August 1986**
**Author: Mark Gevisser**
**Page number(s): 4-6**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
M ay/June 1986: Crossroad s bur n s to the grou n d and th e p eople, for so lo ng su ch p owertui symbols of resistance, 
finally move out. 
Crossroads: August 1986 
Mark Gevisser 
She is. a hard woman, I think from 
inside the van as she approaches: she 
has a yellow t-shirt pulled over an 
angular body, taut fine skin pulled 
over an angular face, a cigarette, and 
through the mud-stained glass of the 
window she shakes her head firmly, 
she spreads her hands out away from 
her chest, I watch her lips, the 
cigarette, her lips, "no," she says, 
"no, 
I 
will 
never go 
back to 
Crossroads." 
I am with SH AWCO, the Students' 
H ealth and Welfare Community 
Organization of the University of 
Cape Town, and we are parked 
outside 
the 
Elukhanyisweni 
Community Centre in Guguletu, a 
black township outside the South 
African city of Cape Town. Terrified 
+ The New Journal/October 17. 1986 
by the mere idea of being in a 
township, I have been hiding all day 
within the van's safety as it does its 
rounds. But at the sight of this woman 
(there is something in the way she 
shoots the smoke vertically out of her 
mouth), I unroll the window. I want to 
see, I want to hear- this is my 
country, my people. 


"And now they want to go back," the 
woman says. "They want to go back to 
Crossroads and rebuild, but no, I will 
never go back. My six-year-old son 
awakes every night with nightmares of 
the fighting, he screams and cries, and 
my daughter, 
my ten-year-old 
daughter says that if we go back she 
will run away." 

I am introduced to the woman, her 
name is Jen. "Are you a witdoek or a 
comrade?" I ask her. 

She looks at me, her small eyes 
burning my face, burning it red, 
"Look," she says, angry, "I am not an 
anything or an anything. I just want 
my freedom." 

Jen is a refugee from Crossroads, the 
black squatter-camp complex that was 
burned to the ground in May andjune 
of this year. She now lives at the 
Elukhanyisweni Community Centre 
along with 
151 
other adults, 
48 
children and 28 babies (I have a fact 
sheet in front of me). T here are ten 
such refugee centres in Guguletu and 
Nyanga, the townships that surround 
the sand-dunes where Crossroads once 
stood. The destruction occured when 
fighting broke out between 


'comrades' and 
the 'witdoeK, 
two 
factions within the squatter complex. 

I am a white South African, and 
these terms, 'comrade', 'witdoeK are 
heavily loaded for me: the media has 
successfully created a Beirut out of 
every black township- they are 
savagely killing each other, I am told, 
there is nothing we can do about it, so 
why even try? The comrades, I am 
told, are tsotsis, gangsters who are 
using the liberation movement as a 
blanket for crime and 
arbitrary 
terrorism. The witdoeke (so named for 
the white kerchiefs they wear around 
their heads) are, I am told, vigilantes 
who have formed into groups to 
protect themselves from the atrocities 
committed by the comrades, atrocities 
like the dreaded 'necklace.' 

The image of the 'necklace,' the 
township guillotine, is one of the few 
that the white authorities have allowed 
to filter through the news b lackout they 
have imposed: the victim, someone 
who has 'collaborated' 
with 
authorities, first has his hands and feet 
cut off and is then made to drink 
KUoline, and a burning rubber tyre, a 
necklace, is pla~ed around his neck. 

This is what I know before I join 
SHAWCO on one of its twice-weekly 
rounds of the refugee centres. The 
organization, 
made up of white 
students from the University of Cape 
Town, 
provides relief to 
Crossroads refugees in the form of 
provisions and medical attention. The 
workers of this organization now try to 
give me a more complete picture. They 
explain, with the help of Jen, how the 
conflict arose over the issue of whether 
or not the squatters would remain in 
Crossroads. 

All the inhabitants of Crossroads 
were illegally in the Western Cape, 
seeking employment in nearby Cape 
Town. Because of their illegal status, 
they were not entitled to 'official' 
housing in the townships, and the 
authorities 
had 
repeatedly tried, 
unsuccessfully, to remove them from 
the area. 

Wary of the squatter camp's 
increasingly powerful 
value 
as 
a 
symbol of resistance, the authorities 
devised an appeasement plan: the 
squatters were offered resettlement in 
Khayelitsha, a new township over 40 
kilometres away from Cape Town. 

The entire squatter complex would be 
"voluntarily dismantled," and would 
move, without any questions asked 
about the inhabitants' illegal status, to 
the land and facilities at Khayelitsha. 

The witdoekL, under the leadership of 
The image of the 
"necklace," the 
township guillotine, is 
one of the few that 
the white authorities 
have allowed to filter 
through the news 
blackout. 

Ngxobongwana, a despot who con-
trolled the camps, decided to accept 
this offer of resettlement. Most of the 
inhabitants of Crossroads saw, how-
ever, lurking behind the rhetoric of the 
government, just another 
forced 
removal. No guarantees were given 
that they would be allowed to stay in 
Khayelitsha; they could not afford the 
costs of commutin"g over 80 kilometres 
a day to their places of work; and , 
besides, says Jen, "we had made our 
homes in Crossroads." 

These people were, likejen, neither 
comrades nor witdoekL. They were 
nevertheless prepared to accept the 
comrades' 
directive 
to 
resist 
authorities, and, as they had done 
many times in the past, they refused to 
move. The government's Khayelitsha 
option, however, depended on the 
voluntary demolition of the entire 
squatter complex, and the witdoekL, 
determined 
to accept this 
option , 
began to wage major attacks on the 
comrades. Under Ngxobongwana's 
command, they eventually, amid st 
bloody fighting, burned the whole 
complex down. 

"And yes," says Jen, "yes, they were 
involved, those botre." She almost spits 
this last word out, which is the South 
African slang for 'police.' According to 
The New journaVOc1ober 17 1986 5 


the present State of Emergency in 
South Africa, police and army acti-
vities in the townships are not allowed 
to be reported, but many of the relief 
workers tell me that they too observed 
the military offering direct assistance 
to N gxobongwana and his troops. This 
makes sense: both the authorities and 
the witdoeke desired the demolition of 
Crossroads and the defeat of the 
comrades. And besides, the military 
has apparently been keeping such a 
tight watch over the township areas 
that the witdoeke would never have been 
able 
achieve 
such 
widespread 
destruction without the approval, 
either tacit or open, of the authorities. 

Aod so, under a cloud of smoke that 
could apparently be seen from all over 
Cape Town, the witdoeke moved out to 
Khayelitsha, while the main body of 
the destroyed camps disappeared into 
the surrounding townships. Under the 
leadership of the comrades, these 
homeless people formed themselves 
into ad hoc refugee communities in 
backyards, in church halls, 
in 
community centres like Eluk-
hariyisweni. There are now estimated 
to be, the relief workers tell me,nearly 
2000 
of them 
Nyanga and 
Guguletu. 

"Now you know more;' saysjen, "now 
you know the facts, ni? ," but her eyes 
still burning red into my face tell me 
that these facts do not matter here in 
the townships, here in the refugee 
centres. Jen is not an anything or an 
anything- she is a woman who wants 
her freedom, her basic rights. "Come," 
she says to me, "get out of the van now. 
Come and see." 

The Centre is a room the size of a 
small school hall, littered with blankets 
and gas burners. There is noise and 
6 The New Journal/October 17, 1986 
activity, a mother suckling her child, a 
radio blaring 
reggae. 
Rasta, 
comrade in charge of the community, 
is supervising the unpacking of food in 
the small ante-room. In a corner, a list 
of detainees, published that morning, 
has been tacked onto a noticeboard, 
and a half-dozen or so people mill 
around it. "They are looking for the 
names of their brothers," says Jen, 
"and their sons and their daughters." (I 
bad studied the same list earlier, and to 
my horror had found the names of 
three of my former classmates: the list 
of detainees is one of the only 
documents in South Africa that is 
colour-blind.) 

The 200 or so refugees have to sleep 
in shifts, Jen tells me. Now, in the 
mid-morning, seemingly oblivious to 
the activity around them, the old ones 
and the children are asleep. They will 
have to relinquish their spaces when 
the workers come back from Cape 
Town. And then, according to Jen, 
those who do not or cannot work 
during the day will spend the rainy 
winter night huddled around a gas-
burner in the tiny ante-room. If the 
night is fine, some might go into the 
yard, or walk a bit, but they prefer not 
to-even though there is no official 
curfew, the Casspirs (army riot control 
vehicles) are everywhere, giant bug-
like creatures spoiling for a fight. 

The food has been unpacked at 
Elukhanyisweni, and it is time to move 
on. Jen gets into the van with us- in 
exchange for some additional pro-
visions, she helps load and unload. A 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Mark Gevisser**
**Page number(s): 7-9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Under 
Ngxobongwana's 
command, they 
eventually, amidst 
bloody fighting, 
burned the whole 
complex down. 
boy from the centre joins us as well. 
He enjoys the prestige and the 
diversion of driving around in the 
SHAWCO van, and is very friendly. 
"Howzit, my Comrade?" he says to 
me as he climbs in, giving me the 
liberation handshake. He is not at 
school: ·"Liberation Now, Education 
Later," he says, although he can hardly 
speak English. He smiles, pointing to 
his forehead. There he has pasted a 
sticker, like those we collected as kids, 
of the Soviet flag. He is 14 years old, I 
think. When I was his age I was not 
allowed to the corner store without my 
mother's permission, and this boy is 
fighting a revolution! 

It is this more than anything else 
that strikes me as we do the rounds of 
the refugee centres: the foot-soldiers of 
this revolution are children. It becomes 
very clear that the conflict between 
'wildoelcl and 'comrades,' between 
vigilantes and revolutionaries, 
is 
generational. Despite the occasional 
presence of an old man or woman, 
almost all the people in the refugee 
centres are under 35. 

We zigzag across the townships from 
one centre to another, from the Old 
Apostolic Church where the pews have 
been rearranged into makeshift beds, 
to the Presbyterian Church where five 
hundred people are living in a hall rich 
with the stench of urine and body 
odor, to the Nyanga Arts Centre, 
which is completely surrounded by 
Casspirs supervising the restoration of 
electrical wires torn down in the 
fighting. 

As we approach, 
a 
military 
serviceman, a young white South 
African doing his compulsory two 
years, jumps out of one of these 
armoured vehicles and walks over to 
us, his gun slapping against his thigh. 
"Oh, shit," someone inside the van 
says, and I realize, for the first time 
that day, that I have more to fear from 
these Casspirs and their operators 
(who are my classmates, my contemporaries- I could be one of them) than 
from any black comrade. 

The serviceman, visibly trembling 
beneath the bravado of his twenty-
year-old saunter, peers into the van 
and waves us on. I try to imagine what 
it must be like to spend two whole 
years observing the townships from a 
porthole of one of the Casspirs, being 
ordered to fire at fleeing people at any 
given moment. This is a real fear for 
me: if I ever want to return to live in 
my country, I too will have to do these 
two years. 

And then I put myself on the other 
side. I try to imagine what it must be 
like to spend a whole life observed by 
these metal creatures, these death 
machines. Jen teaches a drawing class 
at Elukhanyisweni, and she tells me 
that the art of her students, four-year-
olds, five-year-olds, is dominated by 
the Casspirs. 

I try to imagine as well what it must 
be like to live in one of these refugee 
centres, with no privacy, with the 
constant threat of confrontation and 
violence. I attempt to find out how the 
communities have organized themselves, but both Jen and the relief 
workers are disconcertingly vague: all 
I learn is that corruption is rife, that 
hoarding of provisions and infighting 
are day-to-day occurrences. Only last 
night, Jen says, a fight broke out 
between two comrades in one of the 
centres, resulting in a fatal stabbing. I 
look at the Casspirs, at the refugees, 
and once again I say to myself- this is 
my country, my people. 

The last centre we visit is a private 
home in Nyanga belonging to a 
woman named Ma Benga. She does 
not actually house refugees, I am told, 
but collects food from SHAWCO and 
distributes it to people squatting in the 
backyards of the neighbourhood. She 
has also all but given up her home to 
the comrades, who use it as one of their 
headquarters. 

It is now dusk, and walking into the 
dark livingroom, I sense, even before I 
can see anything, an atmosphere that 
is very male, very aggressive. At first I 
am terrified, conditioned by the image 
of the comrades presented by the white 
media. These are the ones, I think as I 
enter, who conduct the horrifying 
'necklacings,' who force people to eat 
washing-powder and drink paraffin 
bought at white-owned stores. It takes 
a bizarre combination of sheer terror 
and almost voyeuristic curiosity to 
prevent me from rushing back out to 
the safety of the van. 

As my eyes accustom themselves to 
the light, however, as the eyes of the 
men attach themselves to faces, to 
bodies, I experience a strange sense of 
elation. I look around me. Along the 
sides of the room, sitting on benches, 
are a dozen or so young men, my age, 
in their early twenties. Almost all of 
them have rasta dreadlocks and some 
are wounded: bandaged eyes, 
bandaged arms. 

One of them claps his hands, and 
they are all standing up, moving in a 
line out to the van, carrying bags of 
food into the house. I become part of a 
silent chain that brings the provisions 
into the house and stacks them in a 
corner of the kitchen. One of them 
salutes me as a comrade, but apart 
from that there is only the sound of 
sacks being passed, of shoes across the 
linoleum. I get the feeling that any 
verbal communication would destroy 
this 
fragile 
fraternity, 
this queer 
coalition of young black revolutionaries and young white relief 
workers from Cape Town. 

Look at us, I think- we are the same 
age, we have the same nationality, the 
same aspirations even, and we cannot 
even find a common language. A hand 
brushes mine as I am passed a sack of 
mieliemeal, and I quiver at this contact. 
I think of a performance which I saw 
a few days ago called Abamanyani, 
which is the Xhosa word for "coming 
together to create." Performed by a 
group of black and white dancers, it 
was an ear-splitting, drum-beating 
fusion of modern jazz, township jive 
and traditional rhythm. I was left, 
however, feeling unexpectedly 
empty- the tune that ran through the 
piece, "Abamanyani, 
Come 
Together, 
People of Afrika," seemed so 
meaningless, so hopeless and naively 
optimistic to me, a white South 
African chained by my race and my 
background to the plushly upholstered 
seating of the Baxter Concert Hall. 

And now I quiver when a comrade's 
hand, 
black hand, 
accidentally 
touches mine. Abamanyani, 
Together, People of Afrika, I start to hum, 
softly, 
feeling 
my heart beating 
throughout my body, Abamanyani, 
Come Together, People of Afrika, and I 
notice that someone else, behind me,


All that has been salvaged from a burning shanty will end up, eventually, in 
a heap in the corner of one of the refugee centers. 
behind a bag of potatoes or a can of 
paraffin, is humming too, Abamanyani, 
Come Together, People of Afrika. I look 
up, startled. There is a man, smiling, 
his face dark and muscular. 

"You have seen it, this Abamanyani?," 
he asks. 

"Yes," I reply, failing to avoid eye-
contact. 

"It is very good, nê?," he continues, 
laughing now. "My brother was in it." 

I want to laugh too, I want to talk, 
ask questions, what did you think of 
it?, what's your name?, which one was 
your brother?, where did you see it?, 
but suddenly there is a searing urge at 
the back of my throat, my hands are 
shaking, and I break the chain to rush 
outside and light a cigarette. 

The van is about to leave Ma 
Benga's. The relief workers, 
accompanied by the kid with the 
hammer and sickle on his forehead, 
climb back in, and as the van drives off 
along the gravel road, I see, through 
the mud-stained window, the 
comrade. He is looking directly at me, 
and he has his fist raised in a Black 
Power salute. Is he mocking me? Jen 
lights a cigarette and laughs, a deep 
throaty sound, and the fine, taut skin 
around her mouth wrinkles for the first 
time. 

"They are looking for 
the names of their 
brothers," she says, 
"and their sons and 
their daughters." 

Mark Gevisser is a senior in Saybrook. 
© 1986 Mark Gevisser


**Title: Challenge From the Left**
**Author: James Bennet**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
Rick Wolff, the Green's mayoral candidate, turned his education against his alma mater. 
"The city's disintegrating and what arc 
we doing? We're remodeling buildings 
on 
Chapel Street, San 
Fran-
cisco-style!" The booming voice drops, 
becomes savagely 
mocking. 
"How 
charming. Really, aesthetically they're 
quite pleasing," the eyes widen, the 
voice climbs, "but they're absurd! In 
this city, with its needs and its 
problems and its collapse! It's absolute 
craziness!" The voice moderates. "The 
Green Party, in a nutshell, is devoted 
to saying all this. The Green Party is a 
little like that fairy tale of the emperor's 
new clothes. We're that little kid who 
says"- the hands, clasped, form a 
megaphone, 
the voice climbs 
to 
falsetto-•It's not new clothes! He's 
10 The New Joumal/October I 7, I 986 
na-a-a-ked!" The voice regains its angry 
edge. "And we have the same problem 
the child does. Everyone wants to 
shush us up, you know? 'Shhh,"'- a 
mocking whisper emerges from behind 
one waggling finger-"Don't do that! 
Don't do that!" Abruptly, the burly 
man leans back in his chair, crosses his 
legs, drops his hands in his lap, and 
grins. "It's hysterical." 


Since the days when Yale professors 
warned him to stop protesting the 
Vietnam War, no one has been able to 
muzzle Rick Wolff. Last year, as a 
mayoral candidate in New Haven, he 
emerged as the most prominent and 
controversial member of the Green 
Party. Though only five months old 
and with a budget of only $15,000, the 
Greens fielded eight aldermanic 
candidates as well as contenders for 
both Mayor and City/Town Clerk in 
the November elections. Two of the 
aldermanic candidates won more than 
25% of the vote in their wards, and 
Wolff garnered 10°/o city-wide, 
beating the Republican candidate in 11 
of the 30 wards. Though Democratic 
officials credit the Greens with raising 
the issues that shaped last year's 
campaign, they regard the Green 
Party as a fringe group with little hope 
of achieving their idealistic vision for 
New Haven. Greens claim that within 
five years they will be a 
major 
contender in New Haven politics, 


Wolff received both his academic 
and his political education in New 
Haven. As a Yale graduate student in 
the late sixties, he earned masters 
degrees in economics and history, and 
a doctorate in economics. His deep 
involvement in the Yale-New Haven 
Committee against the War radi-
calized his politics and introduced him 
to the 
New 
Haven community. 
Though he has commuted to teach 
since his graduation in 1969-first at 
City College in New York, and since 
1973 , 
at the 
University 
of 
Massachussetts at Amherst- he has 
made his home here. Living in New 
Haven sensitized Wolff to municipal 
issues. As a homeowner, he was 
angered by the city's property tax 
rates, now the highest in Connecticut. 
As a father, he was appalled by the 
deterioration of New Haven's public 
schools. 


Contemplating the city's economic 
woes led Wolff to his obsession: "The 
absurd phenomenon that the seventh 
poorest city in the United States 
subsidizes the second or third richest 
university in the world became the 
galling summary of what was wrong 
with New Haven." Though he worked 
on Democratic campaigns in the 
1970s, Wolff became convinced that 
the Democrats would never confront 
what he perceives to be the city's basic 
problems, because of their two "articles 
of faith": never oppose Yale's wishes, 
and never question the Mayor's plan 
for downtown revitalization. 


Wolff was 
not alone 
in his 
frustration . For years disaffected 
~mocrats had discussed forming a 
'"•rd party in New Haven, but nothing 
had jelled. In the spring of 1985, 
Wolff and several other progressives 
proposed the idea of creating an 
alternative party to residents they 
thought might be interested. By June, 
feeling they had enough support to try 
their idea on the general public, they 
called 
a 
convention 
lay 
the 
foundations for the Green Party. 
Among the more than 100 people 
who attended that first convention was 
Morrison did not 
support the strike, and 
McKivigan concluded 
that the "outsider" had 
joined the Democratic 
mainstream. 
Jack McKivigan, Associate Editor of 
the Douglass Papers and a lecturer in 
History and Afro-American 
Studies departments at Yale. He had 
read 
an 
announcement 
for the meeting in the New Haven 
Advocate and decided to investigate. 
Not expecting to find much support, 
he was impressed by the large showing 
and by the open, flexible nature of the 
convention. "I could see that this party 
was going to be what the people 
wanted to make it," he remembered. 
After arriving at Yale in 1979, 
McKivigan, too, worked to elect 
Democrats. He volunteered for Bruce 
Morrison's first congressional 
campaign in 
1982 against an 
incumbent Democrat. H e considered 
Morrison an outsider, a challenger to 
the 'Democratic machine.' But when 
Local 34 struck Yale he began to see 
New Haven politics from a new 
perspective. Morrison did not support 
the strike, and McKivigan concluded 
that the 'outsider' had joined the 
Democratic mainstream. Seeing "four 
horsemen arriving from the New 
Haven police force every morning to 
intimidate strikers," convinced him 
that the municipal government backed 
the Yale administration against the 
strikers. 


Like Wolff, 
McKivigan 
turned to the Greens as an alternative 
to the Democratic Party. 
Though McKivigan, in contrast to 
the volcanic Wolff, spoke slowly, 
drawing each word out as he groped 
for the next, he evinced the same 
striking intensity of commitment as he 
discussed the Green Party's vision for 
Haven. The Green Party's 
14-page platform, which outlines that 
vision, bears on its title page the motto: 
"THINK GLOBALLY 
ACT 
LOCALLY." McKivigan explained 
that the platform attempts to adapt the 
environmental, 
a nti - nuclear 
philosophy 
of the West German 
Greens to the realities of New Haven. 
It outlines each problem the Greens 
have identified and proposes remedies. 
Proposals include making city officials 
more accessible and accountable to the 
public, 'municipalizing' the United 
Illuminating 
Company, 
and 
eliminating all nuclear and military 
research 
a nd production in New 
H aven. Though at times the platform 
seems to stray from reality- for 
example, calling for the community to 
adopt a 'holistic lifestyle' that will turn 
New H aven into an 'ecotopia'- the 
platform nevertheless testifies to the 
Greens' organization and follow-
through. Indeed, the ·Greens have 
produced a comprehensive statement 
of principles and proposals before any 
other New Haven party. 


The Greens also split with the 
Democrats over political tactics. To 
maintain grass-roots spontaneity, they 
try to avoid establishing titles and a 
concomitant party hierarchy and to 
prevent any one personality from 
dominating the 
organization. To 
simplify abstruse issues and increase 
popular interest, 
the Greens 
established a theatre group to perform 
skits at town meetings and other 
events. According to Jeri Baker, the 
party's Acting Chairperson, "We try to 
make this as fun as possible for people, 
because we feel that a major reason 
we're in such a state is that politics is 
calculatedly boring." 


Armed with this strategy, a lucid 
platform, and enormous enthusiasm, 
Greens embarked on their 
campaign publicly hoping for one 
percent of the vote and privately 
expecting between 
two and four 
percent. They were astonished by the 
election results, and attribute them to 
their success in raising three issues that 
they say 
k~pt the incumbent 
Democrat, Mayor Biagio DiLieto, on 
the defensive throughout the 
campaign: the means by which New 
Haven should dispose of its solid 
waste; the Democrats' development 
plan; and Yale's financial contribution 
to New Haven. 


For many years, Yale has resisted 
pressure from the community to make 
some sort of a contribution- a tax 
payment or a payment in lieu of taxes, 
such as Harvard makes to Cambridge. 
Yale maintains that it is both unlawful 
and unprincipled to expect money 
from 
tax-exempt, 
not-for-profit 
institution. According to Joni Barnett 
of the Yale Office of Community 
Relations, "Yale University thinks that 
its endowment, which it got over a 
period of 280 years from alumni 
should be used for its educational 
purpose- to admit students regardless 
of their 
need." The Democratic 
administration, like the Greens, feels 
that Yale should pay, but insists there 
is no legal way to force a payment. 
Joe Carbone, Executive Assistant to 
the Mayor since 1980, accuses the 
Green Party of "sheer demagoguery." 
He thinks Green Party members 
deliberately 
deceive 
voters by 
distributing flyers proclaiming, "Vote 
Green, Tax Yale!" He explained that a 
city government does not have the 
power to remove a tax exemption. 
Furthermore, 
the state legislature 
woul<Lnever consider empowering the 
city to tax one exempt institution while 
12 The New JournaVOctober 17, 1986 
leaving other tax-exempts- churches, 
schools, 
social service organi-
zations- untouched. A payment in 
lieu of taxes also cannot be legislated, 
and the university has for years refused 
to negotiate one. Carbone pointed to 
contributions Yale makes to New 
Haven. Despite its vast amount of tax-
exempt property, Yale is New H aven's 
fifth largest taxpayer. It is also New 
H aven's largest employer and attracts 
affluent students who spend money in 
local shops and restaurants. 


In 
addition to generating revenue for the 
city, Yale contributes to New Haven's 
cultural life through _its museums. But, 
Carbone is quick to add, "None of that 
is adequate." The Mayor plans to 
encourage Yale to invest more in local 
development projects. 


Wolff, 
who has studied 
University's annual financial report 
every year for ten years, argues that 
New H aven, in effect, financially 
supports Yale, while Yale serves a 
national constituency. Though Yale 
pays to support the city sewage 
treatment plant, it contributes nothing 
to the fire department that responds to 
between 200 and 300 alarms at Yale 
buildings each year or to the public 
school system that educates its labor 
force. The state government partially 
compensates New Haven for the 
revenue it cannot raise from tax-
exempt institutions. Greens say that 
Yale, not the city or state, should pay 
for the services it uses. McKivigai}, the 
party's Press Secretary, sent a letter 
this fall 
to Yale President Benno 
Schmidt proposing that Yale negotiate 
financial 
settlement with New 
Haven. He was not optimistic about 
the letter's impact. Last year he sent 
the same proposal to Bart Giamatti, 
who never responded. 


If Yale administrators won't 
negotiate a payment, then the Greens 
plan to force it out of them. Wolff calls 
the Democrats 'gutless wonders' for 
claiming that the city government can 
do nothing to tax Yale, and he 
proposes two possible methods. One 
option would be for the city to pressure 
the state legislature to restrict Yale's tax 
exemption. And why hasn't this tactic 
been tried? "It has to do with Yale's 
influence, and its determination not to 
pay," Wolff said: In addition, the city 
could take action without appealing to 
the state. By enforcing existing tax 
laws, it could make Yale pay taxes on 



**Title: New Haven's Green Party**
**Author: James Bennet**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
its operations that compete with local 
businesses. He cites the Yale Golf 
Course and Computer Center as 
properties that can be taxed because 
they 
serve 
people outside 
the 
University. 

An 
independent 
group that 
examined New Haven's tax system 
reached similar conclusions. In 1982 
the Board of Aldermen appointed a 
New Haven Revenue Commission to 
explore means by which the city could 
generate more revenue. Wolff served 
on the commission. Among other 
evidence, 
group examined a 
lengthy statement from Yale detailing 
ill financial 
relationship 
to New 
Haven. 

In 
February, 
1985, 
Commission delivered its final report, 
which advised the Board of Aldermen 
to lobby the state legislature to reform 
laws governing tax exemptions as well 
as to enact new laws allowing cities to 
charge 
tax-exempt 
institutions for 
municipal 
services. 

It 
also 
recommended that existing tax laws be 
better enforced, making specific note 
ofthe Yale Golf Course and Computer 
Center. The Board of Aldermen, 
however, re~cted the report. 

Eventually, says Wolff, Yale will 
pay. "We will one day see a meeting of 
Mr. DiLieto, if he's still the Mayor, 
and Mr. 
Schmidt, 
or whoever 
succeeds him, and they'll have a big 
celebration on the Green. And with 
gr"eat fanfare the head of Yale will 
hand a check over for one million 
bucks ... We'll force that out of them. 
That of course will not be adequate 
and we'll scream about it. But that's 
what's coming. Yale knows it, too. 
They're just gonna wait as long as they 
can." 

The Greens' crusade does not focus 
10lely on taxing Yale. They also attack 
the Mayor's city development plans. 
By encouraging developers to remake 
New Haven, DiLieto hopes to attract 
~ 
businesses that will provide the 
City with new jobs and revenue. In 
order to draw developers to New 
Haven, 
the city invested in the 
~eUing of the Shubert Theatre as 
~display of confidence in its future. 
&qe Shubert also attracts affiuent 
patrons who frequent restaurants and 
shops downtown, bringing money into 
the city. But the city continues to pay 
over one million dollars a year to keep 
the Shubert running. 

The Greens think that the Mayor's 
priorities are backwards. "We don't 
have a decent library system for 
residents," McKivigan said, "bu! we'll 
subsidize someone from Woodbridge 
seeing 'Biloxi Blues.'" Wolff argues that 
remodelling the Shubert marks the 
latest misconceived attempt by 
Democrats to replace the city's eroding 
industrial base with a service economy. 
He said that this economic policy, now 
over 20 years old, has succeeded only 
in pushing 20,000 people out of the 
city and in saddling New Haven with a 
host of economic and social problems. 
"This is absurd," Wolff said. "Any 
policy ought to be tried except the one 
that has failed so completely." The 
Greens' plan for city development 
focuses 
on 
improving 
neighborhoods. They want to spend 
money immediately to develop low· 
income housing, to improve the parks, 
and to upgrade the public education 
system. 

While the Greens have not coaxed 
the New Haven government to alter its 
policies on city development or Yale's 
tax status, they have succeeded on one 
front: garbage disposal. Every year 
New Haven dumps about 115,000 tons 
of solid waste in a landfill, now almost 
full. 

In August, 
the city 
developed a plan to build a trash 
incinerator in Fair H aven in order to 
reduce the city's solid waste to ash. 
Investigating this method of waste 
disposal, the Green Party and a Fair 
Haven-based group, Don't Dump on 
Us, discovered that many scientists 
question its safety. These scientists 
claim that the burning process releases 
dioxin and other noxious compounds 
into the air. Furthermore, certain 
materials, such as batteries, contain 
heary metals which do not burn; when 
added to a landfill, these metals seep 
into the groundwater, contaminating 
it. During the campaign, the Greens 
demanded that the incinerator not be 
built and that a task force be elected by 
the public to investigate the issue. One 
week after the election, the Mayor 
scrapped the plan, announcing he 
would 
appoint 
a 
task 
force 
to 
investigate. 

On September 29, the task force 
presented its final report at a town 
meeting. The report recommends that 
New Haven initiate recycling and 
composting programs to account for 20 
percent of the waste stream within four 
years, and 'significantly more' after ten 
years. The remainder of the solid 
waste must be burned, a process which 
the report maintains will not be 
dangerous 
if carefully managed. 

Carbone said that city officials have 
been 
negotiating to build the 
incinerator away from New Haven in 
one of two towns, Stratford or Shelton. 
The Greens, however, reject any plan 
involving incineration. They support 
an alternative strategy, formulated by 
Don't Dump on Us, which calls for 
more aggressive recycling to reduce the 
waste stream by 70 percent- the same 
reduction accomplished by burning. 

Greens went to the town meeting 
prepared to counter the task force's 
report. Town meetings can last longer 
than five hours, and after 30 minutes 
this one was already dragging as two 
Greens approached the stand to present 
a skit. One of the men identified his 
partner, wearing a white coat, as a 
distinguished scientist "known for his 
experiments with rats, mice and small 
children." Then the 'scientist,' almost 
shouting into the microphone, outlined 
his 
experiment 
to determine 
toxicity of dioxin. As he spoke, his 
assistant passed out sealed test tubes 
containing a blue liquid to members of 
the task force . The scientist directed 
them to drink the contents. "Please 
keep careful track of the symptoms 
over the next 48 hours. rm especially 
curious to know if the dose proves 
fatal." The assistant added that if the 
incinerator is built, many New Haven 
residents will also have the opportunity 
to participate in the experiment. As the 
crowd laughed and applauded, 
members of the task force exchanged 
angry glances and nervous grins. 

The skit awakened the audience and 
raised an important issue. 

But 
watching it, one had to wonder: for 
whom were they performing? The 
audience, composed mostly of Green 
Party or Don't Dump on Us members, 
already understood the issue and had 
taken a position. Where were the 
uninformed, uninvolved, disaffected 
residents that the Green Party is 
counting on for support? Indeed, some 
doubt that a group of white, educated 
men and women, mostly over 35 years 
old, can appeal to New Haven's voters 
with a radical and idealistic vision that 
often strays from bread-and-butter 
issues. 

The Greens point to other obstacles. 
At the moment, they say, the deck is 
stacked against them. Decades of 
patronage by Democratic admini-
strations have tied whole blocb of 
voters 
to the Democratic Party. 

Furthermore, New Haven residents 
tend to base their votes on a family 
tradition of party affuiation rather than 
on a careful consideration of the issues. 
As a consequence, the Democrats have 
a lock on New Haven politics. There· 
has not been a Republican mayor in 33 
years, and the Board of Aldermen has 
had a Democratic majority for even 
longer. At present, only two of 30 
aldermen are Republicans. 

To overcome these obstacles the 
Green Party seeks to teach New Haven 
voters that they have options and that 
it pays to weigh different political 
strategies. They believe that a.s they 
reach more and more voters with their 
information, the party will receive 
greater support. 

Last year, 
for 
example, the Greens did not fare well 
in predominantly black wards. Their 
explanation for this is that they did not 
run candidates in those wards and 
hence did not get their message across ' 
to those voters. 

Joe Carbone, however, remains 
calm. He feels that the Democrats have 
nothing to fear from the Green Party, 
which he regards as a "flim-flam 
operation." Their success in 
last 
November's elections he attributes to 
the oppos1t1on vote 
which 
any 
incumbent faces. The Greens, he says, 
enjoy a comfortable position in New 
Haven. Because they are not likely to 
gain control of the city government, 
they can remain outside, as critics, 
without being accountable for their 
policies. But even as critics the Greens 
will never carry much influence. "I 
think the Democratic Party will 
continue to dominate New Haven 
politics for at least the remainder of 
our generation," Carbone said. 

Progressive Democrats, though 
closer philosophically to the Greens, 
share Carbone's confidence. Martin 
Dunleavy, majority leader of the New 
Haven Board of Aldermen, agrees 
with the Greens on major issues. He is 
suspicious of the Mayor's development 
plan, and, unlike other Democratic 
aldermen, can back his lip-service to 
the issue of Yale's fmancial obligation 
to New Haven with specific proposals. 
But he is a man who sees no salvation 
outside the party, and hence no hope 
for New Haven's Greens. According to 
Dunleavy, by working as a third party 
the Greens hamper efforts to move the 
Democrats to a progres5ive stance. "To 
say that they're radicalizing New 
Haven politics is hogwash," Dunleavy 
said. He estimates that had certain 
Greens chosen to run as Democrats, he 
would have five more progressives 
voting with him on the Board today. 
But as outsiders, they have no impact. 
"While they're stomping around and 
putting up a lot of posters and making 
noise, I'm passing laws. While tltey're 
screaming, rm voting to change the 
city, and I'd love to have them ~oting 
with me." Dunleavy's traditional 
approach 
to politics, 
based on 
coalitions and compromises, has its 
price: despite his doubts, he has voted 
for every component of the Mayor's 
development package. That is a price 
no Green is willing to pay. 

This fall, 
the Green Party had 
planned to run five candidates for the 
state legislature, because they feel that 
some of their municipal policies- such 
as taxing Yale- would benefit from 
pressure at the state level. But because 
they failed to examine the rules for 
registering new candidates, four of 
their would-be politicans submitted 
their petitions too late to be placed on 
the ballot. Joel Schecter, an Associate 
Professor at the Yale Drama School, 
did register in time. H e is running in 
the 95th district. If elected, he plans to 
work to phase out nuclear power in the 
state, reform New Raven's public 
education system, and create more 
affordable housing through rent 
control. 

Schecter has 
little chance of 
winning. 

Indeed, · the conventional 
political 
wisdom 
in New 
Haven 
suggests that the Greens are unlikely to 
gain a significant number of municipal 
posts 
in 
near future. 

Democrats, at least publicly, write the 
Greens off too easily. Last fall, though 
they had a tiny budget and little time 
to organize, the Greens forced the 
Democrats to respond on a number of 
politically sensitive issues. If the 1985 
campaign is a fair indicator, then the 
Democrats in the future may have to 
move to the left politically to protect 
their constituency from Green Party 
encroachments. The Greens, then, 
find themselves in an ironic position. 
Because they felt stifled within the 
Democratic Party·~ they fonmed a new 
party with a more progressive stance. 
That new party, however, is likely to 
affect New Haven principally through 
its influence on the Democrats. The 
Greens may stimulate the Democratic 
party, make it more open to change 
and possibly shift its stances on 
significant issues, such as increasing 
development in the neighborhoods. 

Though the Greens are unlikely to be 
in a position soon to run the show 
themselves, 
will 
certainly 
continue to make New Haven politics 
livelier, and more democratic. And 
they will certainly continue to have fun 
doing it. 


**Title: Ready to Listen**
**Author: Jen Sachs**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
When the Yale Student-to-Student Counseling Service moved out of the University Health Services (UHS) bupding on Hillhouse Avenue in 1980, its· twenty or so members felt relieved. 

Their new headquarters, tucked in the basement of Bingham on Old Campus, may have looked small and the carpet frayed, but it was what they had always wanted-a place to call their own, far from Mental Hygiene with its waiting lists and white-coated professionals. 

Their new office seemed to be an accessible place where other students, graduate or undergraduate, could go to discuss their problems informally with people of their own age. They ·moved into their new room, set up the couch and chairs, and put up posters to hide the dingy walls. But day after day, year after year, hardly anyone has come. 

The counselors remain there: different faces, of course, but still waiting. Since the move, they renamed their program Walden Student-to-Student Counseling but kept its focus very much the same. Although Walden operates five nights a week, Sunday through Thursday, from nine p.m. until midnight, and last year provided a late-night telephone hotline, most undergraduates .still do not realize that it exists; only 55 people visited Walden last year. 

Under enthusiastic leadership, the counselors have made a commitment to reach a wider segment of the Yale population. To do so, they must combat years of obscurity and bureaucratic disorder; they also must face charges that they have inadequate training and worse, that their service is superfluous on campus. 

More than anything else, Walden suffers from a lack of continuity. No original charter or statement of intent exists; none of the current counselors knows of any records or documents, and even the names of the original counselors seem to have been consigned to oblivion. The exact year in which those first counselors founded Walden is murky too- maybe eight or ten or even eleven years ago, depending on which counselor you ask. 

Dr. Robert Arnstein, Chief Psychiatrist at University Health Services and a long-time Walden supporter, remembers that the group's tenancy at UHS was "the best solution that could be worked out at the time. They were glad to move out- they wanted to be separate from the Health Services, because they felt that there were people who wouldn't want to go to the Health Services who might want to go to them." Aside from Arnstein's recollections, no one seems to know anything about the early counselors except that their conviction of the importance of peer counseling sustaineq them year after year. 

According to Laura Trogolo, TC '87, the counselors still start from scratch. "We have no records from before. I think that in itself says something important," saidjames Gross, CC '87, the Walden Coordinator. "The problem is the same as with any student group- people come in:for two years and then go." 

Gross and Trogolo, along with the other counselors, realized that without a structure Walden would be doomed to repeat its mistakes. Last summer they created a set of bylaws, which explicate Walden's goals and its methods. The purpose of the group, as stated in these bylaws, is "to promote the psychological well-being of the Yale community . . . to increase awareness and understanding of mental health issues." The bylaws standardize the rules and procedures which Walden follows, specifying the number of counselors, the specific allocation of some of these to different aspects of the organization, · and the creation of leadership coordinating positions; the bylaws also require that each coordinator submit a written evaluation of the program at year's end.


Because of sporadic and inadequate publicity, low visibility perennially plagues Walden. The lack of a public image prompted earlier counselors to affix the name Walden, with its connotations of Thoreau-esque peace anrl stability, and to circulate posters and table tents bearing a Garry Trudeau cartoon, with the hope of evoking a recognition of the program and its services. Nonetheless, publicity has remained ineffective. According to Publicity Coordinator Bill Connors, MC '88, the distribution of table tents and posters has never been scheduled or monitored. Students who might benefit from Walden's services are often unaware of the organization, much less its location and hours. 

"What's important in this is the student's perception of Walden counseling, and I don't think there is one," said Gross. One of the counselors admitted that as a freshman, "I didn't know Walden existed, and I lived in Bingham." 

Taking a different tack, counselors last spring created Walden Outreach, a program sponsoring talks and forums an the colleges. Last year, counselors ran Outreach m addition to their other duties, but this fall three to five people make the new service their sole Priority. Their planned talks include During the three years that Laura T rogolo, TC '87, has been a W alden counselor, she has seen the program evolve from chaos to cohesion. rap sessions on "Being a Southerner at Yale" and "Getting Along with Your Roommate"; last year these discussions attracted more people than the total number who carne to the Bingham office. Outreach also plans biweekly table tents that its coordinator Liz Herzkovits, DC '87, hopes will provoke conversation at the dinner table, including "Safe Sex- Why it Matters, Even if You're Straight." 

Herzkovits readily conceded that while the Outreach program is designed to encourage the informal sharing of thoughts and feelings within the community, she hopes it will also foster an awareness of Walden in general and familiarize students with their services. "It will increase one-on-one counseling. When you've been to one of our forums, all of a sudden Walden has a face," Herzkovits said. 

Even if Outreach succeeds in bringing new recognition to Walden, students must finally decide for themselves whether or not they want peer counseling. Trogolo believes that they do. "Most of the 'counseling' that goes on at Yale is informal, in rooms, between friends," she said. "A lot of problems are better addressed by a peer." Despite her contention, over 1100 Yale students each year, graduate and undergraduate, seek out professional rather than peer counselins at Umverstty Health Services. Of this number, only about half actually receive help following the one screening session. The other 500 go home or go elsewhere- to freshman counselors, Dean's offices, or the clergy- but historically, they have not gone to Walden.


To account for their low turnout, many Walden counselors blame a Yale atmosphere which, they claim, is not conducive to an open discussion of problems. "There are many people who are afraid to admit that they hurt," •Trogolo said. "They'll go through four years with this amazing facade that everything's fine." Several counselors speculated that some of the overflow of Mental Hygiene patients could be channeled effectively, at least temporarily, into programs like theirs, but that UHS would not comply. "I get the feeling that UHS does not regard peer counseling as an effective method," Trogolo said. 

In fact, whether or not they grant them continuing care, UHS doesn't refer any patients to Walden. Dr. Arnstein emphasized that many of his patients at UHS believed they had already exhausted all options except for professional help. It would be more likely for Walden counselors to refer people to UHS than for Mental Hygiene personnel to send clients to Walden; nonetheless, the secretary at Mental Hygiene does keep a stack of Walden brochures on her desk. 

Trogolo admitted that some justification did exist for the reluctance of the professionals at UHS to make such referrals. "There's a danger in them referring people to us. We are not professionals," she said. 

Walden counselors receive extensive, though non-medical, training. Counselors undergo one weekend-long session at an off-campus retreat and then attend a series of talks and lectures, approximately every two weeks throughout the year. In the past, Dr. Lorna Sarrel, the coordinator of "Topics in Human Sexuality," Barbara Moynihan of the New Haven Rape Crisis Center, and other experts have lectured on issues such as sexual


**Title: Walden: A Peer Counseling Program at Yale**
**Author: Jim Sachs**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Often the only ones in the Walden office, counselors Liz Herzkovits, DC '87, 
and James Gross, CC '87, still remain optimistic. 
assault, eating disorders, and tension. 
Role-playing is an additional, integral 
part of counselor training. "They bring 
out a lot of questions- the ability to be 
in a 
situation 
rather than think 
abstractly about it. To work out what 
works and what doesn't," Trogolo said. 
Most importantly, the training is 
designed to encourage active, non-
judgmental listening. The "training 
bible" of the Walden counselors, Peer 
Counseling, written by psychologists 
Peter Salovey and Vincent D'Andrea, 
defines the function of this type of 
listening as "not to solve people's 
problems for them but rather to assist 
them in finding their own solutions. 
Peer counselors don't tell people what 
they 'should' do ... " (p.3). While the 
book advocates both the role playing 
and the expert talks, it recommends 
training sessions of longer duration 
than Walden counselors receive: two 
10-week sessions of about four hours 
per week. 
Though the training program has 
been greatly expanded and structured 
over the past year, 
previous 
inadequacies haunt the group: they 
lacked a faculty adviser until their 
departure from UHS and, as recently 
as two yea.rS ago, they did not enforce 
attendance at training sessions. 
•People didn't come," Gross admitted. 
But he added that "it didn't immed-
iately follow 
that 
they 
were 
unqualified- some 
had 
been 
counselors the year before." This year, 
the counselors coordinated the man-
datory training sessio.ns more carefully 
with Julie Jenks, Walden's faculty 
adviser. A professional psychologist 
who received her training at Yale, 
Jenks directs the Counseling Center at 
Albertus Magnus College and runs a 
private practice in addition to her work 
at Walden. Jenks has been Walden's 
faculty adviser for the past five years; 
she serves as a liasion with UHS and 
draws in experts from various fields to 
educate the counselors. 
Counselors insist that their training 
prepares them for any situation-
whether a 
student fights with a 
roommate or contemplates suicide. 
Their role-playing encompasses both 
ends of this spectrum, and as members 
of a self-termed "crisis intervention 
center," they do not shy away from 
extremely serious cases. 


Beth 
McQuaid, TD '87, said that while her 
training prepared her to handle 
anything, she would immediately refer 
a student to UHS if he or she appeared 
to be dangerously ill or unstable. 
Even with this outlet, some experts 
doubt the ability of nonprofessionals to 
handle real emergencies. "Whether 
they would or should handle someone 
who was suicidal over a long time is 
something else entirely," Arnstein said. 
He stressed that the real question 
becomes whether or not they want to 
handle that kind of responsibility. 
Arnstein 
also mentioned the im-
portance of confidentiality, 
legally 
,enforced within Mental Hygiene but 
only encouraged within Walden. 
Practically, a student cannot take any 
action to preserve his or her confi-
dential status if a counselor abrogates 
it, although 
any sustainable 
accusations of this nature would result 
in the automatic dismissal of the 
counselor involved. 
The issues of both adequate training 
and confidentiality have recently been 
raised by critics of Walden. One Yale 
junior, who asked not to be identified, 
cited several cases of unprofessional 
conduct. Two years ago, two of his 
close friends visited Walden with 
problems. Both of them later told this 
student, 
who had 
experience in 
counseling, that their counselor~ had 
advocated 
concrete 
advice. 
The 
student said that his friends felt that 
Walden counselors dictated solutions 
to them, though Salovey's philosophy 
clearly discourages this technique. 
Consequently, both discontinued their 
counseling. He also said th~t a Walden 
counselor, in a friendly conversation, 
told him not only the specific details of 
a case but also the name of the student 
undergoing counseling. 
Current counselors deny any 
knowledge of past improprieties, but 
they continue to stress confidentiality. 
In fact, they will not reveal general 
types of cases or discuss statistics or 
any information related to specific 
clients. "If anything, we're too tight 
lipped," said Connors. 
Walden counselors keep their own 
concerns under equally tight wrap. 
Frustration does not seem to be a part 
of the Walden vocabulary, despite long


nights when no one comes in. "The 
night you're here for someone- that 
definitely keeps you going. There's 
nothing like the feeling that you've 
helped," McQuaid said. Gross agreed.

"We feel that the service is justified 
even if no rme comes, just because it's 
being offered," he said. "I think there's 
a lot of room for hope, though, and 
certainly for assuming there's a niche 
for us here." 

Yet, one wonders about the exact 
nature of that niche. With its new 
cohesion and apparent stability after 
years of uncertainty, Walden seems to 
be reaching maturity, five years after 
striking out on its own. The Out.reach 
program illustrates the desire of the 
current staff to bring what Trogolo 
called "a new atmosphere" to campus. 
"We can all become better counselors 
and better listeners," she said. This 
new 
atmosphere 
must 
start 
with 
Walden itself. Even with Outreach 
already in place, Walden faces its most 
serious 
challenge ever 
this year: 
persuading students that peer 
counseling can be both effective and, 
more important, trustworthy. If they 
can achieve this goal, Walden 
counselors will finally have found their 
place in the sun, in the basement of 
Bingham. 

• 
]m Sachs, a junior in Ezra Stiles, is on the 
Sl4ff of TNJ.


**Title: Leaving Solidarity Behind**
**Author: Bronwyn Barkan**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
; 
Profile/Bronwyn Barkan 
T 
"The government 
controls everything 
and they will crush 
everything and 
nonviolence is the 
only way to do it in 
Poland." 
In Poland, Andzrej Slominski ran underground 
printing presses th at kept workers informed of 
strike action. 

Leaving Solidarity Behind 
As Andrzej Slominski opens the door 
to his apartment, two cats jump otT the 
sofa. Passing through his living room 
with its television, framed posters, and 
crucifix, he walks into his kitchen 
to pour a Coke and some tonic water. 
A baby carriage sits in a corner of his 
study, 
and 
a 
dartboard 
hangs 
against the wall. "A good way to let out 
your frustrations," he says, as he tosses 
a dart right next to the hull's eye. 
As a leading student activist a nd a 
founder of the Solidarity movement in 
Poland, Slominski has faced many 
frustrations. In December of 1984 he 
left Poland to come to the United 
States. Now a scientist at the Yale-New 
Haven Medical School, he works in 
Dr. John Pawelek's lab 
m 
the 
Dermatology Department. For the 
22 The New J ournal/October 17, 1986 
past year and a half, Slominski has 
made New Haven his home, and for 
the moment he intends to stay. 

In his living room Andrzej Slominski 
leans against his sofa and begins to 
recount 
his experiences. 
Relaxed , 
wearing a 'Solidarity' T-shirt and blue 
jeans, he occasionally pauses to find an 
appropriate word in his English-Polish 
dictionary, 
or to 
emphasize an 
important 
fact. 
As 
his forehead 
wrinkles and his red mustache moves 
up and down, he relates through words 
and gestures his experiences while he 
was a medical student at the University 
of Gdansk. 

His story begins in 1976, when the 
Polish government once again raised 
the price of food . Workers, already 
feeling 
the effects of an ailing 
economy, were not about to let such an 
increase occur without some visible 
show of frustration. Their an~er led to 
the development of a two-day strike in 
which many laborers lost their jobs or 
were sent to jail. In response to the 
needs of the workers for legal aid, 
money and an alternative information 
source, a group of intellectuals in 
Warsaw developed a committee to 
defend the laborers. In Gdansk a 
similar group was organized and 
Andrzej Slominski was one of the 
founders. "Small groups of students 
were formed to help these people get 
information about the workers," he 
says. "I was involved in Gdansk." 


Slominski's hands begin to shape the 
crux of the workers' problem before his 
.. e 
::. 
~ 
l 
~ • 
:; 
X 
"' l 

words express his idea. "The key of the 
system 
is the control 
of the 
information," he says. "You cannot 
check if a fact is true or not true. The 
strike action was big but nobody knew 
about this." 

Alongside 
15 
other people, 
he 
helPed develop and deliver pamphlets 
on the plight of the workers. This 
experience in underground printing 
proved invaluable, because by 1977 he 
and 39 other students had created the 
Students' Committee for Solidarity. 
Consciously jeopardizing his position 
at the University, Slominski accepted 
the risk of organizing underground 
activities. "I was afraid," he says, "but 
if something around you is going 
wrong and y,ou see the injustice, and 
you don't react to the injustice, you 
help create the injustice. If just nobody 
will do this then the situation will 
remain the same." To 
situation Slominski 
underground printing 
began to inform 
existence of a 
movement. 

During the next 
number of people · 
student organizations 
gan 
increase. At the same time a parallel 
movement of workers emerged and 
underground trade unions began to 
gain larger memberships. Recognizing 
the necessity of unity, 
Slominski 
worked very closely with Lech Walesa, 
leader of the dockwork~rs' union in 
Gdansk, in order to collaborate on 
protest efforts. "I 
was the most 
involved in the cooperation with the 
underground trade union," he says. 
•since 1979 I knew Walesa well. We 
made some spectacular action, 
peaceful 
non-violent 
manifestation. 
The movement was from the begin-
ning non-violent." Slominski folds his 
arms 
across his 
chest. "The 
government controls everything and 
they will crush everything and non-
violence is the only way to do it in 
Poland. 
Violence gives birth to 
illlother violel)ce; you will form a spiral 
which you cannot escape." 

Instead Slominski helped organize 
demonstrations which condemned the 
use of violence by the government. 
Along with W alesa he worked on the 
memorial march which commem-
orated the deaths of a number of 
workers killed during a strike in 1970. 
The event became a rallying point for 
the labor movement, and the first 
march occurred in 1977. That year 
only two to three hundred workers 
participated, but by 1978 the turnout 
was already about 
five 
hundrej:l 
people. 
"We came with flowers," 
Slominski remembers. "Someone gave 
a short talk and then five minutes of 
silence, and then everybody went 
home." J uc before they reached their 
houses, 
many 
people 
were 
interrogated. Nevertheless, in 1979 
2,000 demonstrators 
commemorate the 
colleagues. That veiii!''Sl•n1 
Wale sa prom· · 
"Next year we 
to 
you 
thing, the people start to believe you," 
he says. "The most important is to pass 
the barrier of fear. They had the 
example. We were ready to pay a high 
price for our beliefs." 

For whatever personal reason, the 
organizers willingly sacrificed a lot for 
their principles. 
Some involved 
themselves for political reasons, others 
for economic reasons, but Slominski 
and his friends were motivated by 
ideological and moral grounds. "I don't 
like to speak about politics," he says. "I 
don't like politics. When you are 
reacting against injustice everything is 
fme, but when you introduce politics 
into the situation . . . . " Unable to find 
the words to complete his thought, 
Slominski quotes a phrase a friend 
once said: "In politics, only the person 
who has his hand in his pocket is 
clean." 

While his point sinks in, there is a 
momentary break in our conversation. 
Slominski's red head shakes back and 
forth, and he frowns as he slowly 
explains, "When we are simplifying 
something, 
we are sacrificing 
something." With that warning he 
resumes his story. 

With the creation of Solidarity, the 
efforts of the last seven or eight years 
started to bring about results. A 
growing opposition movement devel-
oped to lay the groundwork for 
massive strike action, and Gdansk 
proved a focus point for much of the 
Solidarity activity that was beginning 
to break during this period. Working 
with Walesa, Slominski helped prepare 
for the dockworkers' strike. When the 
laborers 
finally stopped work, 
Slominski was on hand to get the 
information of the strike activity to the 
rest of Poland. "During the strike I and 
other 
distributed information 
factory," he says. "I 
: prmting places in secret 
tjouses. We printed pam-
tM strike action and then 
them." Because of these 
workers in three 
llatelllt<aJ,to·varclS were kept informed 
progression of the strike, and 
., ... ._._,, .. ,o of their demands. 

order to distribute 
their 
pamphlets, Slominski took his material 
to crowded areas. He boarded buses 
with the journals hidden in his shirt. 
Once safely on the bus he then handed 
information to passengers willing to 
read it. "Some people then pass to 
others on the bus," he says. "You 
always go to overcrowded places 
because you could be trapped by the 
police. Sometimes you could throw 
pamphlets in the air and people would 
run and get them." The man who 
laughed a moment ago at the recol-
lection of how he managed to trick the 
police becomes grave for a second. He 
remembers two occasions when his 
precautions did not protect him. 

The first arrest occurred after the 
police stopped Slominski and found 
information in his car that was 
intended to go to another shipyard. He 
spent 48 hours in jail and was released 
after refusing to answer any of the 
questions the police posed during the 
The New J ournaVOctober l 7, 1986 23 

interrogation. The second time he 
faced much more of a risk of being 
locked up for a couple of years. "I was 
going back to the shipyard and I was 
arrested on the street by the secret 
service," he says. "They were watching 
people and they also arrested. my 
brother. It looked very serious." The 
timing, however, proved lucky for 
Slominski. It was the end of August, 
and Walesa was just about to sign 
agreements with · the government to 
end the strikes. But he refused to 
continue the talks until Slominski and 
other Solidarity leaders were released. 
After 18 hours he and some of his 
colleagues went home. 

Despite the success of the strikes and 
the promises extracted from · the 
government to improve wages and 
working hours and to allow increased 
human 
rights, 
Slominski did not 
secure permission to work in any 
university or as a physician in any 
large city. Instead, the government 
· forced him to find positions in small 
municipal hospitals. "When Solidarity 
got power I wanted to return to 
Gdansk," he says, "but the local 
Communist Party didn't agree to let 
me work there. I could only come back 
when the medical faction of Solidarity 
started to strike and the government 
representative agreed that we could 
return to the University." 

Slominski has, in the space of a 
couple of hours, attempted to condense 
six years of his life. His awareness of 
the problems oft simplifying history 
causes him to pause for a few seconds. 
The last part of the story is as dense as 
the first, and he must carefully allude 
to many events with far fewer words 
than they deserve. With a slight sigh, 
he begins to talk about the night before 
the declaration of martial law. 

On the twelfth of December, 1981, 
Slominski went to the last meeting of 
the trade union in Gdansk. He arrived 
with information that the government 
planned to arrest many people and 
presented it to the trade leaders. "We 
went with this information to the 
meeting," he recalls. "Most of the 
leaders didn't believe it. I didn't go 
home. I told my mother to tell my 
24 · The New journal/October 17, 1986 
minski worked closely with Lech Wales a during the Gdansk 
dockworkers' strike. 

brother, who was in the shower, to 
scientific research 
diminished, 
leave the house because he would be 
Slominski decided to look into the 
arrested. We spent this night. in other 
possibilieies ofleaving the country for a 
places. The next day I woke· up and 
short period of time. One potential trip 
soldiers were on the street." For the 
presented itself to him in 1983. He 
next eight months Slominski switched 
received an invitation to participate in 
hiding places every couple of days, 
A conference on skin pigment in West 
living under a form of self-imposed 
Germany. He now faced the difficulty 
house arrest. 

Many of Slominski's friends and 
colleagues did not have his luck. The 
next day the government arrested and 
incarcerated thousands of Solidarity 
members. "The people didn't expect 
that a state of war would be intro-
duced," he says. "State of war with 
whom? Yeah, it was a state of war." 

Slominski looks down at his hands and 
smiles bitterly. The result of years of 
effort had apparently crumbled over-
night. "There is no situation that is 
completely pessimistic. And in the best 
of situations you should be prepared 
for the worst. If nobody stands behind 
some idea, this idea would stop to 
exist. We were sure that our idea was 
right," he says. "We were not so 
optimistic that something like 
Solidarity would happen in this couple 
of years. We looked for a small change 
give society an example. We 
expected after 20 years and maybe 
even longer and maybe after another 
generation, some democratic change 
... and it happened in three years!" 

However, it was not until August of 
1982 that Slominski came out of hiding 
as the result of a general amnesty. 
Aware that he would be barred from 
working at any university in Poland 
and from practicing medicine in the 
big cities following the eventual 
completion of his term at the 
University, Slominski knew he would 
be forced to work in small villages. 
With the prospects of conducting 



**A Scientist's Choice**
**Author: Bronwyn Barkan**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
attend the same convention. At the 
meeting in West Germany, Pawelek 
met many Poles with 
whom he 
sounded out the possibility of visiting 
Poland, 
the country 
his family 
originally came from. He returned to 
the United States, very interested in 
this potential trip. Back in New 
H aven, Pawelek received a request 
from a man named Andrzej Slominski 
who wanted a position in Pawelek's 
lab. 
Assuming he had talked to 
Slominski in West Germany, Pawelek 
offered him a fellowship provided by 
the Lawrence Gelb Foundation and 
sponsored by the Clairol Company. 
When Slominski found out that he 
had a position in Pawelek's lab, he 
again tried to get permission for a 
temporary passport to the United 
States. 
And 
again 
the Polish 
government would allow him to leave 
but not to return. "In Poland I was an 
example 
of something 
for some 
people," he says. "The government 
wanted me to leave because I was a 
bad example. I knew that my period at 
the University would end. For me it 
was a choice of spending the rest of my 
life as a physician in a small village." 
Slominski was too committed to his 
scientific research to be content with 
such a future. "Every now and again 
you run across people who simply must 
do something. Andzrej is a natural. He 
won't do anything but be a scientist," 
Pawelek said. So Slominski made the 
choice to leave everything he was 
familiar with, to come and continue his 
research in the United States. After 
spending a short period of time in 
political asylum at the United States 
Embassy in Warsaw, he went to West 
Germany for three weeks. In Germany 
he took "a small introductory course 
about the USA." From there he went 
to New Haven. 

Slominski's choice of career over 
family and the now underground 
Solidarity movement proved to be a 
difficult decision. But he does not 
regret 
his choice. 
His 
work in 
Solidarity has not been wasted, for the 
movement continues even though the 
activity is conducted in secret. "It is 
impossible to form big organizations. 
You should build an underground 
second society behind the system 
which exists," he says. 

Slominski feels that since the period 
of martial law, that second society has 
continued to grow and develop. He 
points to the many underground 
printing presses of professional caliber 
that produce books, journals and 
pamphlets. 
He mentions the 
independent companies that make 
cassettes and videos with protest 
themes in the songs and drama. "The 
movement has the support of half the 
society. You cannot put millions of 
people in jail," he says. Lectures by 
activists are frequently held in 
churches 
and alternative education 
programs are offered on increasingly 
large scales. 

But Slominski must view all of this 
activity from afar. Although he writes 
to his parents and talks to his family 
on the phone, he knows that his letters 
are censored and that his conversations 
are bugged . On one occasion he tried 
to talk to his brother about the 
Chernobyl nuclear disaster, but he 
stopped because his brother's voice 
became too faint to hear. As soon as his 
brother mentioned other issues, the 
sound became clear. 

Despite the absence of his family, 
Slominski has managed to make: a 
home for himself in New Haven. As 
soon as he landed at Kennedy Airport 
in New York, he was met by Dr. 
Pawelek, his sponsor. "When we 
finally heard he was coming it was very 
exciting," said Pawelek. This ex-
citement manifested itself in people's 
enthusiasm to learn about Slominski's 
past. He recalls colleagues in the lab 
frequently asking him to talk about his 
experiences in Poland. "People were 
excited but it depended when and 
where you are speaking," Slominski 
says. "In the lab I could tell them story 
and story and story. They could see the 
living example of something they were 
seeing on T .V." Slominski laughs as he 
remembers his initial difficulty relating 
the events he had helped create. 

To learn English more rapidly, 
Slominski watched a lot of television. 
"I don't like commercials generally, but 
I have watched commercials because it 
is the best way to learn English because 
it is very simple," he says. Despite his 
initial language problems, he soon 
adopted and enjoyed many aspects of 
Western culture. Supermarkets proved 
to be a particular pleasure. "You can't 
buy almost anything in the shops (in 
Poland)," he says, "and here you can 
have 
everything 
you 
want." Nevertheless, Pawelek does not 
feel 
Slominski 
ever 
became 
overwhelmed by the wealth of the 
United States. "He is not the type of 
person to be swayed by luxury and 
wealth," Pawelek said. "What he wants 
to have is freedom and the ability t.o 
think." 

At least for the next couple of years, 
Slominski plans to continue 
his 
research at Yale. He finds New Haven 
a welcoming place, and he has been 
able to make many friends, among his 
colleagues and through the Polish 
community. A big: grin crosses his face 
as he announces'· that this year he 
married a woman named Elisabeth. 
She is also a Polish immigrant, and the 
two of them live in the downstairs 
portion of her grandmother's house. 
To complete the family, his wife is 
expecting a child in january. At age 32 
Slominski will be not only a husband, 
but a father. 

Relaxing on the edge of the sofa, 
Slominski sums up the contributions 
he helped give to Poland: "In 1970 in 
Gdansk it was 20 people and all the 
people were afraid. I used to feel very 
alienated. My friends would look at me 
and wonder what I was doing. Now 
you can find thousands of people who 
want to do this, and they are not 
afraid!" Slominski stops himself as his 
enthusiasm gives way to resignation. 
"Now, 
there 
is 
no 
way 
I 
can go back." 
Bronwyn 
Barkan, 
a 
sophomore zn 
Davenport, is on the staff of TN].


**Title: Books**
**Author: Claire Messud**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Books 
Mirror Images 
Claire Messud 
The Lost Language of Cranes 
by David Leavitt 
1986 Knopf$17.95, 319 pages 
Sitting around at a dinner party, 
picking at the leftover spaghetti and 
salad and downing the last of the cheap 
red wine, somebody brings up David 
Leavitt (TC '83). "David Leavitt's got a 
new book out," ·they say. Everybody 
starts to talk at once about the 
phenomenon that is David Leavitt, 
erstwhile Yale student, recipient of all 
of Yale's esteemed literary awards and, 
better yet, first published by · Knopf a 
year after graduation. "He only 
graduated in '83 and I hear his novel 
contract was for a million dollars!" If 
this is true, he deserves congratu-
lations. Nobody knows the name of the 
novel. But someone knows someone 
who knows him: "I hear he lives out in 
the Hamptons with his boyfriend and 
that he hates to go into the city." 
Nobody knows what the novel is 
about. Nobody really cares; they'll 
know soon enough. Sometime before 
the year is out everyone's got to read it; 
or at least, someone's got to read it. 
After all, he went to Yale. 

The Lost Language of Cranes, Leavitt's 
aew book and first novel, reads easily 
and quickly: at no time did I find it 
stilted or badly paced. Upon reflection, 
however, the book raises a number of 
questions: I find myself asking what 
motivates people to write works of 
fiction. With political, philosophical or 
history texts, 
the answer to the 
question "Why?" seems evident: 
because they have something to say, 
some theory to propound, some system 
or lack thereof to struggle with. The 
case of fiction, however, is not so clear: 
writers of fiction must feel, necessarily, 
that they have something to say, and 
that in some profound way their 
message is relevant to others: without 
this basic conviction, there is no point 
in writing at all. But if-as in the 
instance of David Leavitt-the moti~ 
vation is highly political, then the issue 
remains of "Why fiction?" Why not 
write a strictly polemical text? Does the 
author choose to write fiction because 
he/she is most comfortable with that
genre? Or because he/she believes that 
the novel, for example, is the most 
effective vehicle 
for 
the 
message 
involved? Or perhaps because the 
appeal of fiction will carry the message 
to the widest audience? And once the 
decison to write fiction has been taken, 
does it impose constraints upon the 
author's political statement, or vice 
versa? It seems clear that the power of 
the author's statement in no way 
guarantees the quality of a work of 
fiction, but at the same time one can 
argue that the politics of the book 
ensure that it is worth reading even if it 
is not successful as a work of fiction per 
se. In other words, in a work of 
political fiction, i( one is to have 
primacy over the other-and this is a 
big if-which is it to be, the politics or 
the fiction? 

David Leav.itt, author of the highly 
successful collection of stories entitled 
Family Dancing, faces some, if not all of 
these issues in his novel. To anyone 
familiar with his work, the subject of 
The Lost Language of Cranes comes as no 
surprise; indeed, the basic elements that 
pervade his short stories are present in 
his novel: 
the protagonist, Philip 
Benjamin, is a young, white, upper-
middle class, college-educated 
homosexual faced with the problem of 
coming out to his parents, Rose and 
Owen. As in Leavitt's stories, the 
mother figure is central to the family 
dynamic. Aside from his relationship 
with her, Philip lives in an almost 
exclusively gay and predominantly 
male world, 
as his lover, 
Eliot, 
introduces him to the chic gay scene of 
downtown New York. 

The situation of Philip's father is, at 
the outset, the most intriguing in the 
book: ostensibly the happily married 
and res'Pectable director of admissions 
at a 
private boys school, Owen 
Benjamin has been leading a double 
life for years. Unbeknownst to his wife 
and son, Owen frequents gay porno-
graphic cinemas on the Lower East 
Side where he has hasty anonymous 
encounters with other men. Philip's 
revelation to his parentS' that he is gay 
throws Rose and Owen's marriage into 
a state of crisis, forcing to light the 
secrets of twenty-five years of 
marriage. 

Set in New York City, the novel has 
all the trappings of a trendy post· 
collegiate existence. The world of 
small, grubby studio apartments on 
the Upper West Side, of cheap Indian 
restaurants in the East Village, of 
Palladium and Boy Bar and Shescape, 
is strikingly familiar. And as Philip 
bemoans his love life over coffe'e with 
Brad, a friend made in college through 
the "Gay Lesbian Campus Coalition," 
I feel I am reading a conversation 
transcribed in the Anchor Bar. It 
' ~eems dishearteningly predictable. 

Despite such moments of recog· 
nition, much of the book is foreign 
and, for me as a woman reader, 
extremely alienating. Leavitt writes of 
a lifestyle in which women have no 
place; his treatment of the three female 
characters in the book shows only 
minimal understanding of and relative 
indifference to the way in which they 
think. The development of Rose, 
Philip's mother, is perhaps the best 
example of this problem. In her fifties, 
rooted in a job as a copy editor which is 
apparently of little interest to her, and 
with no close friends to speak of, Rose 
discovers that both her son and her 
husband are gay. 
Given , that 
heretofore Rose has kept the family 
together- Philip and Owen, we are 
told, have never been close-such 
news is a momentous blow. The 
potential for exploring Rose's reaction 
seems to me to be complex and 
powerful, 
if difficult. 
Leavitt, 
however, writes Rose as having one 
flat and monolithic reaction beyond 
which he does not need to look: 
time and again she responds to their 
confessions with statements like: "I 
don't 
believe that just because 
something's 
a 
secret 
it 
therefore by definition has to be 
revealed . . . Keeping certain secrets 
secret is important to- the general 
balance of life, the common utility." 
While resistance to the news is 
undoubtedly a large factor in Rose's 
reaction, and apparently the only 
aspect expressed verbally, it cannot be 
the only feeling she has. Just because


--- Page 29 ---

she doesn't want to think about her 
husband and son being gay doesn't 
mean she can avoid it, or that David 
Leavitt can avoid writing about it. And 
yet, with the exception of one interior 
monologue in which Rose sees herself 
as numb, and then as angry, he does. 

Philip and Owen's discussion at the 
close of the book is representative of 
Leavitt's own irresponsibility in his 
treatment of Rose: "I met a man the 
other night," he (Owen) said, "who I 
think I may see again. Also married, 
younger than me, but not much. I like 
him very much." "That's good," Philip 
said. And again, for emphasis, "That's 
good. But what about Mom?" Owen 
sighed. "I don't know," he said. "I just 
don't know." "I'm sure everything will 
be fine," Philip said. 

The implication, it seems, is that 
nobody cares what happens to Mom: 
Nor is Rose 
the only woman 
flattened by Leavitt's na.rrative: the 
presentation of J erene, a lesbian friend 
of Philip's, is equally trite. Leavitt's 
book addresses homosexuality, but 
Jerene and her lover Laura are the sole 
representatives of the 
lesbian 
community to appear in it. The author 
delves into Jerene's past with this 
superficial exchange iUustrating her 
relationship with her mother: "Why do 
you always wear those ugly pants when 
rve bought you so many pretty 
dresses?" "'Pretty dresses look stupid on 
me," she (Jerene) said. As Leavitt 
writes the lesbian characters, they are 
merely tokens, abstract types, and it is 
unclear why he bothers to include them 
at all. Furthermore, while Leavitt is 
ostensibly attempting to demystify 
homosexuality, 
to bring it 
into 
mainstream fiction as a 
concrete 
reality, his portrayal of lesbians is very 
much the perpetuation of a myth. 

Leavitt takes far greater pains with 
development of his male 
characters, and the portions of the 
novel dealing with Philip, Owen and 
Brad in particular are vividly written. 
Leavitt captures extremely well Owen's 
mounting tension and his increasing 
difficulty in controlling the deception 
he has created. The progression of 
Philip and Owen's relationship to the 
confessional scene that closes the book 
is very moving, and there is one 
discussion of homosexuality that the 
two engage in over dinner that is 
particularly compelling. It is too bad, 
perhaps, that Leavitt does not focus 
even more on Owen's life and on the 
interaction of father and son; the 
book's emphasis on Philip's love affair 
with Eliot is, 
in comparison, 
of 
minimal interest, following as it does 
the brief and predictable course of 
many such affairs, both homosexual 
and heterosexual, without shedding 
any new light on the issue. 

There remains, the vividness of the 
gay male characters notwithstanding, a 
problem within that aspect of the 
novel's construction: more than on gay 
men themselves, Leavitt concentrates 
on their homosexuality, such that it 
appears the sole driving force in their 
lives. Both Owen and. Philip, like 
Rose, have little interest in their 
careers and few friends, and both of 
them spend an inordinate amount of 
time either thinking about or having 
sex, to the exclusion of everything else. 
Of Philip, we are told: "In Eliot's 
absence, 
Philip found himself 
possessed of an unprecedented raging 
libido. Unable to concentrate, acutely 
sensing his aloneness, he would 
sometimes have to jerk off five or six 
times before he could fall asleep." 

Were the book ever to deal with 
Philip's- or Owen's, 
for that 
matter-existence as a being aside 
from his sexuality, both the novel and 
the characters would be strengthened. 
The number of masturbatory scenes in 
the seats of gay porno movies are no 
doubt justified to Leavitt as a 
manifestation of homosexuality which 
must be included in the novel in order 
to stress, concretely, what it means to 
be gay. Perhaps, however, one or two 
such scenes would suffice. In the 
quantity in which they appear in the 
book they are monotonous, reductive 
of the characters they are discussing, 
and detrimental to the quality of the 
novel as a whole. 

I believe that in trying in this way to 
give primacy to the politics of his 
fiction, 
to 
presentation of 
homosexuality as it is, Leavitt has 
undermined his own enterprise: he has 
failed 
to portray gay men as 
individuals of a certain complexity; 
they appear only as people constantly 
led around by their sexual drive. The 
homosexual relationship hetween Brad 
and Philip that develops over the 
second half of the book is the only one 
based on friendship rather than lust; 
breaking the chain oflonely encounters 
or auto-erotic indulgences seems to me 
to be a far more positive message to 
gay and straight readers alike, and I 
wish-perhaps because I like happy 
endings- that there were less of a sense 
of rarity about their relationship than 
Leavitt seems to suggest. 

At the same time as I am advocating 
a novel about gay men instead of about 
homosexuality, I recognize the need 
for the latter in fictiOJ?. today. Novels 
about relationships like Philip and 
Brad's, based on the mutual respect 
and love of two people, might not have 
the political impact on the mainstream 
audience that the gay movement 
needs. Perhaps books about gay male 
lust are what is necessary now, to 
awaken the public, and to shock. the 
public, even if the results are books of 
diminished 
interest in 
and of 
themselves. If this is the case, I wait 
with impatience . for gay writers to 
undertake this task, as Leavitt does in 
The Lost Language of Cranes, so that they 
can go to more interesting things. 

Leavltt has too much talent and 
potential as a writer to be confined to 
writing books that are a dull political 
necessity. 

After reading the book in 
its 
entirety, I feel confused and alienated 
by Leavitt's misogyny; I feel frustrated 
with the sacrifices he makes of the 
complexity of his characters in order to 
stress their sexuality; but the fact 
remains that I read the book with 
· interest, that at no point did I throw it 
down in disgust or boredom. This, I 
think, is a tribute to Leavitt's style, and 
to his vivid, if not always complex, 
portrayals of the male characters in his 
book. 

The Lost Language of Cranes speaks to 
the experience of an exclusive group of 
gay men- I believe not even to the 
majority of the gay community-and 
to all but those few it presents a closed 
system 
from 
which readers 
are 
destined to feel distance. A quotation 
from the brief central chapter that 
gives the book its name best describes 
the novel's effect: "There was a crudely 
cut peephole in the fence, and through 
it she stared at the vast pit from which 
the building would arise, watched the 
cranes lunge and strain. She stood in 
the deafening roar of the cranes. In the 
grinding, the churning, the screeching, 
in the universe of cranes, the womb of 
cranes, she stood there, eyes open, and 
listened." 

Cklire Messud is a semor rn Jonathan 
Edwards. 


**Title: All the Right Stuff**
**Author: Alison Gardy**
**Page number(s): 30**

All the Right Stuff 
Alison Gardy 
Essays That Worked: 50 Essays from 
successful Applications to the Nation's Top 
Colleges edited by Boykin Curry and 
Brian Kasbar 
1986 Mustang 
Publishing $7.95, 144 pages 
The how-to book is America's secular 
bible. Americans have an undying, 
. democratic belief that anyone can 
succeed with a how-to book at hand. 
All the secrets one needs in order to 
evolve from a humble ordinary into a 
shining success story can be found in 
slim, step-by-step, easy-to-read 
volumes. During the past decade, one 
of the hottest how-to markets has been 
the academic prep course. It started as 
a library of books whose binders read 
like a Dr. Seuss ·rhyme-MCAT, 
LSAT, GMAT, PCAT, VAT, DAT, 
SAT- helping students to master the 
standardized test. But, until recently, 
panicking applicants hav.e been left on 
their own to write the personal essay, 
perhaps the most challenging part of 
the application because it forces them 
to step out from behind masses of 
grades and test scores. 

Two Yale juniors, Boykin Curry 
(BR '88) and Brian Kasba,r (BR '88) 
edited a book that finally how-t<rizes 
the last bastion of individuality in the 
application process. Essays that Worked: 
50 Essays from Successful Applications to 
the Nation's Top Colleges is the answer 
agonizing high school students have 
been seeking. Curry and Kasbar 
received 500 essays from admissions 
offices around the nation as well as 
from their friends; they then selected a 
sampling and put them into a very 
carefully designed book. Even the 
cover reveals what Essays that Worked is 
all about: the art of packaging. The 
book looks like a reliable companion to 
Barron's SAT manual. Slim but not 
too slim, titled in bold black and red 
letters, it projects a crisply professional 
image. And inside, sprinkled among 
the essays, you'll find how-to tips in 
· little black-outlined boxes which remind: 
"Double-check for spelling, grammar 
and punctuation mistakes," "Make 
sure the essay looks .neat," and 
"Photocopy the essay and the rest of the 
application, sign it and mail it." 

Kasbar, Curry and their publisher, 
Rollin Riggs '79, understand well the 
art of people-packaging, the art of 
telling people to be themselves while 
telling them how to do it at the same 
time. 

Essays that 
Worked 
tries to 
condense the essence of the successful 
essay 
into . cheerful, 
encouraging 
advice. "The admissions officer wants 
to know the real you, and what makes 
you tick,". said the editors. "What do 
you see differently from your friends? 
Why do you want to go to college? Do 
you talk to yourself? Hate sunny days? 
Take baths instead of showers?' And, 
In order 
reinforce 
their own 
speculations, Curry and Kasbar go 
straight to the admissions offices. 
"What works 
best?" asked one 
admissions officer. "Honesty, brevity, 
·risk-taking, 
self-revelation, 
imaginativeness, and fine writing." 

While many of the essays in Essays 
that Work make · for worthwhile leisure 
reading-one about mismatched socks 
and another about pigging out on Oreo 
cookies come to mind- the dominant 
how-to-sell-yourself-w bile-sounding-
sincere tone of the book imposes an 
awkward hardness on the other more 
personal, emotionally vulnerable 
essays. This clashing of the hard · sell 
and sincere self makes me feel that 
maybe a book like this, which teaChes 
students to write about themseLves 
honestly yet competitively, takes the 
process of people-packaging a bit too 
far. 

"Sometimes I think about all the 
things that have happened to me in my 
life," begins one essay submitted 
anonymously, "and I wonder . . . what 
would the kids at school think if they 
knew that (N arne)- straight A + 
(Name) the Brain ... spent most of 
her childhood crying and feeling 
inferior because no one ever wanted to 
play with her . . . " The essay details 
her father's death and her feelings of 
being cheated by family members. 
"Sometimes I get so sick of things 
happening to me that I want to scream 
(and many times I do)," she writes at 
the end. "That's one reason I'm so 
anxious to get to college. I can't change 
my childhood into the one I wanted



**Essays That Worked**
**Author: Alison Cardy**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Slim, but not too 
slim, titled in bold 
black and red letters, 
it projects a crisply· 
professional image. 
but next year I will be out on my own 
and I will finally have. the chance to 
make my life turn out the way I plan 
it." 

After reading this emotionally raw 
essay- which, 
incidentally, 
might 
make a straight A + student seem 
more human but might be taken as an 
excuse for failure had it come from a 
student with low grades and test 
scores- it is almost embarrassing to 
flip to the book's introduction and read 
Kasbar's and Curry's advice on how to 
appeal 
to an ·admissions 
officer: 
•Admissions officers are very human. 
They will laugh at a funny joke, and 
they will get excited over a well-written 
account of a close game. They may 
even shed a tear if you pull them 
through 
a 
tragedy." The advice 
continues: "Admissions officers will 
become bored and irritated as quickly 
as anyone by essays that are dull and 
blatantly self-serving." 

Some of the essays don't need 
Kasbar's and Curry's advice because 
they're already skillful illustrations of 
students selling themselves. 
One 
ingratiating student writes a poem 
entitled The Admissions Officer "in honor 
of the most dedicated college official." 
He begins: "It is now 3 a.m./and his 
eyes 
are getting glassy ./He sifts 
through wads of paper/watching 
reruns of Star Trek and Lassie." After 
lamenting the trials and tribulations of 
•a hard-working, brilliant mind," the 
final verse reads: "This was a tribute to 
the little man/the man whose brain 
IDust feel like lead,II hope the man 
"ho admits me/will someday sleep in 
br.d." The admissions officer who 
accepted that essay must have been 
really exhausted. 

Other essays are so well-written, 
they manage to shine through the 
book's how-to atmosphere as literary 
works 
in 
their 
own 
right. One 
applicant writes a parody of several 
famous authors writing about them-
selves for an application essay. "What 
would Hemingway write? ... 'My 
name is Ernest. I am a man. I am a 
writer. I would like to attend the 
University of North Carolina at 
Chapel Hill.' U .D. Salinger] 'Damn it! 
Why the hell are you asking my name? 
Phonies are always asking crap like 
that.' [Shakespeare] 'The wheel of 
fortune hath spun- that arrant whore 
bestowed upon me the most wretched 
of inquiries. Thy wit shall not go 
slipshod. Hear me committee- set less 
than thou trowest. I owest thou naught 
my name. Go to, have thy wisdom; it 
is William Shakespeare.' [And Freud] 
'Because of my pleasure derived from 
relieving myself during the Anal stage 
of development, I am basically an 
outgoing person.'" 

But such essays are rare. Too many 
students, 
the admissions officers 
complain, 
fall 
into 
the 
my-necktie's-too-tight style of writing. 
Curry and Kasbar offer a parody: 
"' am constantly striving to expose 
myself to every opportunity to become a 
person with a deep understanding of my 
own values and of the environment in 
which I fmd myself. 1 have participated 
in a broad range of activities, and I have 
endeavored 
to 
become 
ever 
more 
versatile and tolerant while at the same 
time solidifying my own ideals . . . " 

Often students fall into the trap of 
writing about the same hackneyed 
subjects. "Sometimes it seems there are 
only four types of essays," said one 
admissions officer: "the 'class-
president' essay, the 'I-lost-but-learned' 
sports essay, the 'I-went-to-Europe-
and-learned-how-complex-the-world-
is' essay, and the good old 'being-
yearbook-editor-sure-is-hard-work' 
essay. When I read one of those, it 
takes amazing willpower to get to the 
third paragraph." 

Essays that Worked helps encourage 
students to be creative when writing 
their essays. There is an awkwardness, 
however, in the process of sincerely 
selling oneself, 
an awkwardness 
inherent in the college application itself 
and 
exacerbated by 
how-to 
approach of Essays that Worked. "I didn't 
want this book to be a how-to," said 
Kasbar, who fought against including 
the little black-outlined boxes with the 
helpful tips, "but Rollin (the publisher] 
insisted." 

How-to books, after all, consistently 
make the national bestseller list. Every 
successful businessman who sells on 
the American market knows how to 
exploit the practical nature of the 
American 
psyche and 
that very 
American thirst for quick-'n-easy self-
help and self-development books. Even 
though the essays in Essays that WorW 
could have stood .respectably on their 
own without how-to camouflage, they 
probably would not have appealed to 
the panicking (and thus more likely to 
be spending) element of the student 
market. 

A 
price 
must be 
paid, 
however, 
for taking the 
money-
making, how-to route. In Essays that 
Worked even the most thoughtful, well-
written 
essays are cheapened. 


**Correction**
**Author: Tamar Ulrich**

Correction: In the September 5 issue 
ofTNJ, in my article 'Guarded Speech' 
I failed to make a distinction between 
the Thomas a Becket House, which I 
insensitively termed "the Episcopalian 
bastion at Yale" and the Episcopal 
Church at Yale; the two are discreet 
entitles. The Reverend Charies 
DinkJer is the chaplain of the former, 
while the Reverend Dorsey W .M. 
McConnell is the chaplain of the latter, 
Yale's Episcopal Church. I regret the 
error and apologize for any 
misunderstanding that might have 
ensued. 
Tamar uhrich
The NewJoumaUOctober 17, 1986 31


**The Yale Symphony Orchestra**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 32**

• . . . more than one professional European 
orchestra could envy them and should 
have every interest in imitating their 
ensemble, the seriousness of their work, 
their understanding of the music and 
their ardor in rendering these works in 
the best way possible. • 
- Le ProutnCai (France)

• October 18 
Capriccio Espagnol Rimsky-Korso.lcoo 
Mother Goose (Complete) Raotl 
Premiere Season 
Alasdair Neale 
Music Director 
1986-87 Concert Season 

.. 
CWhen the orchestra players stamped 
their feet for Neale at the 
conclusion of Stravinsky's 
Pictures at an Exhibition Mussorgsky/Raotl 
Symphony in Three Movements, the 
appreciation seemed understandable.• 
-Los Angtks Times, July 22, 1986 

All Yale Symphony concerts, with the 
exception of the Benefit Concert, are 
free and open to the public and 
are perfonmed in Woolsey Hall 
beginning at 8:00 p.m. For more 
information, and Benefit Concert 
tickets, call 432-4140. 

• December 7 (Sunday) 
Festive Overture Shostakovuh 
Concerto for Violin Tchailwvsky 
Lydia Forbes, violin 
Symphony No. 2 Sibtlius 

• January 31 
Hary Janos Suite KodiJ/y 
Clarinet Concerto Copwnd 
Gary Ginstling, clarinet 
Symphony No. 8 Dvoralc 

• February 28 
Cockaigne Overture Elgar 
Concerto for Jazz Quartet and Orchestra Gudlel 
Michael Weisberger , sax 
Jonathan Katz, ptano 
Adam Guettel, bass 
Craig Levine, drums 
Symphony No. 6 &ahovm 

• April 24 Benefit Concert (Friday) 
Italian Girl in Algiers Rossim 
WORLD PREMIERE! 
Symphonic Dances from "West Side Storr- Bnnmin 
Symphony No. 5 Tchailwvslcy 

