Publication date: 09/85
Volume 18, Issue 1

**Title: WYBC's Troubles**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
While clarifying who the decision-makers were, Suttle gave only a partial expfanation fo r the decision to shut down WYBC. Although Moser's initial expl~nation for the turn-off was "technical problems," Suttle demanded a financial plan before the doors could be re-opened . Lawyer J ames H. DeGraffenreidt, '74, a member of the Board of Governors, cited both issues. But underlying every statement, every accusation, lay perhaps the most serious cause of WYBC's ailments: a rift between community, "associate" members of the station and the con-tingent of YaJe students. The split pro-voked suspicions that the Yale ad-ministration is attempting to oust New Haven members from their joint operation of WYBC. 

Walking through the station drives home a startling picture of WYBC's most tangible problems. "The physical plant and equipment are disgraceful," Suttle said. His words echoed truthfully down each grimy hallway and in each ill-equipped room. 

Bare floors and torn, black matting show where carpeting once lay, although new rugs partially cover old scars. Inside the E-board office, battered steel desks sit next to an old armchair, stuffing protruding from its shredded arms. Cigarette butts have been kicked into a corner in the hallway outside the door. On the floor of the music office an oval green rug, moldy and filled with holes, poorly disguises the debris beneath. Only cabinets plastered with colorful bumper stickers and walls hidden under record jackets attempt to alleviate some of the oppressive shoddiness. 

Station members work to keep the offices and studios clean, but there are numerous instances of abuse. Records have been stolen, door locks have been broken, and Michael Shoenbaum, ES '88, WYBC's treasurer, once came across a cup of urine in the FM studio. "One time, the knobs were twisted off the console and I repaired them," explained Thomas Duffy, a broadcast consulting service engineer who has worked at WYBC for three years. "I went back a week later, and it had happened again, so I repaired them a second time. The third time I started to get a little disgusted." 

Old problems more than new ones are responsible for WYBC's state of technical disrepair. An antiquated, black and unplugged Associated Press newswire standing squatty next to a wall serves as a stark reminder of the constant battle the station must wage against the corrosive effects of time. "Just about everything should be ripped out and replaced," Duffy said. "I submitted a quarter-of-a-million-dollar budget proposal two years ago, breaking down the needed repairs room by room. Nothing came of it." 

Nonetheless, the equipment works well enough for Duffy to compliment WYBC's sound quality. More serious technical troubles lie on top of Payne-Whitney Gymnasium where the station's 15-year-old, 1200 watt transmitter sits. Affectionately termed "Helen" by station members, the dilapidated transmitter has forced the station off the air several times in the past year, once for a day and a half. Duffy, who gives technical assistance to a number of Connecticut radio stations, believes that Helen will not survive another winter because of metal fatigue. Duffy also believes that her latest problem, discovered six months ago, is not at all severe. "YBC's signal may be fluctuating from its assigned 94.3 megahertz," he said. "Give me five hundred dollars and five minutes to replace a module, and I'd have that transmitter within FCC requirements." 

Ironically, the trouble with Helen didn't warrant such a long-term station closing. Furthermore, an engineer who examined the transmitter two days before the shutdown found nothing wrong. He felt the problem lies with the meter that has supposedly detected the transmission deviation, and not the transmitter itself. Countered DeGraffenreidt, "Even if we're wrong, and its only the meter that's broken, that's a problem in itself. It's kind of like driving a car without a speedometer." 

The deterioration of the physical plant is aggravated by WYBC's inability to pay for repairs; for years the station has been spending more money than it earns. Because most of its billing is chanelled through a Yale charge account, major expenditures such as phone lines and necessary physical improvements are funded by Yale, and charged to WYBC. Due to laxity on both sides, the "Yale bill," as the debt is called, had reached $26,000 in July with monthly increases averaging $1000. "With a debt of that size," Suttle said, "WYBC is a unique case among undergraduate organizations." 

In May of this year Suttle said of the debt, "Sooner or later someone is going to take action. When I start poking my nose into it, then it's my duty to take it. I want to give them every opportunity. I'm counting on the students to solve their problems. Eventually this one may need my resolution." After the station closing Suttle said, "I made it clear to David Baron, last year's general manager, that the Yale bill has got to stop growing, and it hasn't done that." 

Schoenbaum explained why WYBC can't pay its Yale bill. "Ten years ago YBC used to gross $75,000 in ads alone. Last year it grossed $25,000 in total income." As a commercial station, WYBC generates its greatest income through advertisements, and Schoenbaum believes part of the station's problem is that it has no real sales staff. Chip Triest, a member of the Board of Governors, agreed. "Any way you look at it, what it comes back to is money. If people had been out making sales, YBC would not have been in such an acute crisis." 

Last spring Schoenbaum estimated that WYBC could "really get back on our feet" in two years, but only with more active students and a better sales depanment to pay off the station's expenses: its equipment and repairs, the A.P. newswire and smaller costs like record royalties. More revenue could also be generated with increased ratings since higher listenership leads to better ad sales. Some people believe WYBC could increase its ratings by altering its current format. "They've got to rethink their product," Suttle said. "They do not have enough of a listening audience to be supportive." 

DeGraffenreidt agreed: "We will be concerned with making the air product more saleable with an improvement in technical quality and an improvement in content."