Publication date: February 27, 1987
Volume: 19
Issue number: 5


**Position: Publisher**
Margarita Smith

**Position: Editor-in-Chief**
Melissa Turner

**Position: Business Manager**
Barrie Seidenberg

**Position: Managing Editors**
Jay Carney
Tamar Lehrich

**Position: Designer**
Beth Callaghan

**Position: Production Manager**
Stu Weinzimer

**Position: Photography Editor**
Carter Brooks

**Position: Associate Business Managers**
Debra Rosier
Grace White

**Position: National Sales Manager**
Laura Smith

**Position: Associate Editors**
Tom Augst
Jennifer Sachs
James Bennet
Daniel Waterman
Susan Orenstein
Peter Zusi

**Position: Associate Production Manager**
David Brendel

**Position: Circulation Managers**
David Katz

**Position: Associate Designer**
John Stella

**Position: Staff**
Bronwyn Barkan
Martha Brant
Beth Cohen
Jennifer Fleissner
Norman Dong
Pearl Hu
Peter Lefkowitz
Skye Wilson
Yin Wong

**Position: Members and Directors**
Edward B. Bennett III
Henry Chauncey, Jr.
Peter B. Cooper
Andy Court
Brooks Kelley
Michelle Press
Fred Strebeigh
Thomas Strong

**Position: Friends**
Anson M. Beard, Jr.
Edward B. Bennett, Jr.
Blaire Bennett
Gerald Bruck
Jonathan M. Clark
Louise F. Cooper
James W. Cooper
Jerry and Rae Court
David Freeman
Geoffry Fried
Sherwin Goldman
John Hersey
Roger Kirwood
Andrew J. Kuzneski, Jr.
Lewis E. Lehrman
E. Nobles Lowe
Peter Neill
Julie Peters
Fairfax C. Randall
Nicholas X. Rizopoulos
Arleen and Arthur Sager
Dick and Debbie Sears
Richard Shields
Elizabeth Tate
Alex and Betsy Torello
Allen and Sarah Wardwell
Peter Yeager
Daniel Yergin


**Table of Contents:**
Features
Over the Limit - Martha Brant
Generations Apart - Susan Orenstein
Dealing in Dreams - Erin Kelly
Profile
With A Righteous Beat - Tamar Lehrich
Books
Beauty Made Simple - David Keck
Letters
NewsJournal



**Title: Over the Limit**
**Author: Martha Brant**
**Page number(s): 6**

Financial aid students, faced with sacrificing their campus jobs or taking scholarship cuts, criticize the Undergraduate Financial Aid Office's limiting of student incomes. Some search for loopholes, but policy changes may be the only answer.


**Title: Generations Apart**
**Author: Susan Orenstein**
**Page number(s): 8**

Older than traditional undergraduates, Special Students pursue degrees while balancing full-time jobs and life at home. Among their needs: a new name, financial assistance, and a place of their own at Yale.


**Title: Dealing in Dreams**
**Author: Erin Kelly**
**Page number(s): 22**

Seeking money and social change, glamour and personal fulfillment, large numbers of seniors shipped resumes to investment banks this winter. But their wide-eyed expectations do not always correspond to the reality of the job.


**Title: With A Righteous Beat**
**Author: Tamar Lehrich**
**Page number(s): 14**

He looks like David Byrne. People say he's an amazing dancer. From the Lower East Side, Richard Hill is the creator and co-director of the Afro-Caribbean New Haven-based funk band, Milwta. Here he discusses his life and philosophy-tales of studying Haitian drumming, living with a religious cult in Ghana, and teaching Yale students.


**Title: Beauty Made Simple**
**Author: David Keck**
**Page number(s): 30**

Umberto Eco, author of The Name of the Rose, presents a brief, wide-ranging, but often superficial exploration of medieval theories of beauty in his latest book, Art and Beauty in the Middle Ages.


**Letters**
**Author: Various**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Letters 
NewsJournal 
To the Editor: 
I was pleased to read Martha Brant's 
article on Objectivism, Shrugging Off 
Convention (TN}, January 30, 1987), 
and appreciated both its relatively 
successful effort to portray Objectivism 
objectively, as it were, and to refrain 
from 
the 
gratuitous 
conservative-
bashing and POR-bashing one 
unfortunately sometimes finds in the 
public discourse of this campus. I was 
also quite 
pleased 
to 
be quoted 
correctly. 

I fear, however, that an important 
distinction I made in the course of my 
conversation with Mi·ss Brant was not 
entirely clear from the naturally small 
portion of our discussion 
which 
appeared in the article as printed. That 
distinction was between my opinions, 
as an individual, of Objectivism and 
Objectivists as members of the Party of 
the Right. My distaste for the potential 
dogmatism of Objectivism and the real 
dogmatism of some Objectivists leads 
naturally, if seemingly paradoxically, 
to my belief that the Party of the Right 
is good for its Objectivist members and 
they for it. The reason f()r this is that 
an O~jectivist, or anyone else, so 
wrapped up in dogma as to be unable 
to stand having his beliefs challenged 
long and hard will not enjoy the POR 
and will not stick around very long. 

Over the years, some people have 
entered the Party as Objectivists and 
left as something else. Others have 
entered as something else and left as 
Objectivists. All have gone through the 
crucible of self-examination toward 
personal growth that we hold to be the 
essence of the Party of the Right and, 
by vigorously arguing for their ideas, 
have contributed to the intellectual 
growth of others in the Party. Thus, 
while "Within the Party, good-natured 
disagreement exists," although 
"courteously violent" might be a better 
phrase, I must disagree with the 
sen tence preceding that one, that 
"Students in the POR do not always 
welcome 
this support 
objectivist element." 

Faithfully yours, 
John Wood Brewer, SM '87 
Chairman, The Party of the Right 
4 The New Journal/February 27, 1987 
The New journal encourages letters to the editor 
and comment on Yale and New Haven issues. 
Write to Melissa Turner, Editorials, 3432 Yale 
Station, New Haven, CT 06520. All letters for 
publication must include address and signature. 
Tht New journal reserves the right to edit all 
letters for publication.


**Arousing Interest**
**Author: jennifer Fleissner**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

"Perplexed is good," Ethan Klingsberg 
(Law '90) said of one reaction to the ·new 
magazine he helped to found, Interrupt 
Now. Perplexed makes sense, too. The 
magazine, which Klingsbcrg and his 
friends simply xeroxed and stapled 
together, is a riot of collage graphics 
and 
typed 
writing, 
all 
careening 
together in hlack and white. Sold in 
New York, New Haven, and Wash-
ington, D.C., it contains a number of 
writings about music, but also some on 
politics, sex, and how to make a peanut . 
butter and sardine sandwich. Any 
general 
theme?· "Great moments," 
Klingsberg suggested. 

The magazine's musical bent may 
stem from Klingsberg's past; ·he once 
belonged to a band called Fascist .Julio 
the Stranded .Jellyfish. 
In 
addition, most of his own contri-
butions to the magazine are leftovers 
from his stint last year as a staff writer 
for two alternative music publications 
in England. "On the side, everyone 
was putting things out on their own," 
he recalled. "I was just really impressed 
by the creativity of the magazines they 
published 
that inspired . me." 

During his first semester at Yale Law 
School this fall, Klingsberg grew bored. 
"I started writing things over just to 
free myself from the tedium." 

Included in his unpublished material 
from the previous year were several 
interviews, including one with Sonic 
Youth, a post-punk band from New 
York, and another with heavy metal 
superstars Motley Crue. Both pieces 
appear in lnle"upt Now alongside 
Klingsberg's writings on lesser-known 
bands like New Zealand's critically 
praised Chills. He stresses, however, 
that the magazine is not a one-man 
show, although initially only he and his 
friends were involved. Now, material 
comes in from outside sources as well. 

One notable contributor to the first 
issue was cult figure Henry Rollins. 
ex-lead singer for the punk band Black 
Flag. who responded to a personal 
letter from Klingsberg with a page of 
his poetry. The correspondence led to 
a highly successful benefit for Intrrrupt 
Now. organized by Klingsberg and 
sponsored by WYBC. At the show, 
Rollins performed his "Spoken Trip," a 
comedy act of sorts. and underground 
filmmaker Nick Zcdd, noted for "Geek 
Maggot Bingo," showed some of his 
short movies. 

The multimedia format befitted a 
benefit for lnte"upt Now which, in 
addition 
music-related 
pieces, 
included short stories. many photos, 
and a healthy quotient of free-form 
ramblings, plus one by Klingsberg 
which posits, "Reagan is disguised as 
Andy Warhol. So is Andy Warhol, I 
suspect." Klingsberg hopes that Inter-
rupt Now is not perceived solely as a 
music magazine, nor as one concerned 
with the "New Haven scene." He 
expressed distaste for the typical locally 
based U.S. fanzine, which he claims is 
usually the work of high . school 
students. "Most of them are just about 
how life sucks because they're in high 
. school. And they interview a couple of 
other angry high school bands," he 
snorted. "That never really turned me 
on." Klingsberg also attacked the 
tendencies of many music magazines 
either to insult every band they 
mention or to gush with constant 
praise. 

Klingsberg sees lntmupt Now as 
closer in style to the publications he 
admired in England, although he 
added, grinning, "It's more erotic . 
The English magazines were kind of 
repressed. This isn't." Hardly. The 
first long piece in issue #1, "No 
Reproduction Permitted," consists of a 
graphic depiction of sexual violence, 
supposedly written by "several inmates 
at a local prison on the Jersey Shore." 

The story's content could easily offend 
the average reader, but Klingsberg 
looked confused at this suggestion. "I 
mean, it totally depends on who you 
read," he said. He did admit the 
importance of not letting the whole 


--- Page 5 ---

publication rely on the shock value of 
that first piece, if simply for the sake of 
variety. 

The audience for a publication like 
Interrupt Now may be hard to reach. 
Klingsberg, who sees his buyers as 
primarily music fans , has concentrated 
his sales efforts on small alternative 
music stores like New Haven's Rhymes 
Records. 

The magazine lacks 
a 
distributor, though, and fewer than 
200 copies of the first issue were 
printed. Klingsberg claims he "doesn't 
really care." He is excited about future 
issues, and may change the name of 
the publication for each one. The next 
is 
tentatively titled 
Vulnerable. 
"Everything is vulnerable," 
he 
explained. 

The statement reflects Klingsberg's 
belief in the wide scope of his 
publication. He also mentioned some 
modern novelists who write in a 
stream-of-consciousness style; 
while 
reading their work, he claims, "You 
realize, I could do this, I have this 
whole file of things. Everybody has a 
file. I'd show Interrupt Now to· people 
and they'd run upstairs and grab stuff 
and say 'Look at this, look .at this' 
. . . That's the best part." lntm-upt Now 
does resemble a collection of found 
artifacts, although their universality is 
questionable. Still, with 
underground music scene booming, 
Klingsberg may well find his audience. 
The magazine, whether it appeals or 
not, is hard to dismiss. 
•



**Reel Variety**
**Author: Bronwyn Barkan**
**Page number(s): 5**

The six ftlm societies on campus 
provide weekend entertainment, 
sometimes even with subtitles. Yet the 
preponderance of films screened here 
are directed by whites and backed by 
major distributors. Valarie Hartman 
and Mikal Muharrar, both graduate 
students in American Studies, decided 
in the fall· of 1986 to create an 
alternative. 

Along with 20 other 
graduate students, 
undergraduates 
and community members, 
they 
formed 
the Mumbo Jumbo 
film 
society, 
dedicated to 
presenting 
independent films created by Afro-, 
Asian-, 
and Hispanic-American 
directors. These movies, rarely shown 
in commercial movie theaters, are 
often ignored even by traditional 
independent 
outlets whose 
primary focus 
non-Hollywood 
cinema. 

"There are a number of art houses 
and museums that are designed to 
provide 
space 
for 
cinema, and even there, there are only 
token representations of Third World 
cinema," Hartman said. The Museum 
of Modern Art and the Guggenheim 
Museum in New York City frequently 
present movies that are created by 
non-traditional filmmakers. 
But 
according 
Muharrar, 
marginalization of Third World films 
by a 
predominantly Eurocentric 
industry results in their being 
overlooked 
by 
these art 
houses. 

In addition to providing exposure to 
Third World cinema, the members of 
Mumbo Jumbo hope to accompany 
the films with panels led by the 
filmmakers 
themselves. In these 
discussions 
directors would 
examine the political economy of 
independent cinema, and explore 
questions of representation in clas-
sical Hollywood film. Because the 
filmmakers have varied political and 
aesthetic opinions, they would also 
debate among themselves the validity 
of different cinematic approaches. The 
first Mumbo Jumbo screening, pre-
sented February 26 at the 
Yale 
University Art Gallery, displayed this 
diversity. Michelle Parkerson's movi~ 
.... but then, she's Betty Carter, which 
examines the life of jazz singer Carter, 
follows a standard documentary film 
style. Larry Clark's Passing Through, on 
the other hand, 
exemplifies an 
experimental approach which Hart-
man feels may prove inaccessible to the 
average movie-goer. "Their films are 
very different." Hartman said, and the 
panel will address these differences as 
well as the common problems of Third 
World filmmakers. 

In order to fund their ambitious 
agenda, the members of Mumbo 
Jumbo approached various organi-
zations for suonort. The Afro-
American Studies.a'nd Women's Studies 
Departments have donated some funds 
to the society, and a number of other 
groups, including the Black Students 
Association at 
Yale, 
the Afro-
American Cultural Center, and the 
Connecticut Council for the Arts, have 
also contributed. However, Mumbo 
Jumbo still operates under a number of 
financial difficulties due to the high 
costs of film rentals, which can average 
as much as $200 per movie. Because of 
such constraints, the members of the 
society only scheduled six fUms for this 
semester, 
with 
the intention of 
continuing the program next year. 

Future screenings this year will take 
place at Davies Auditorium, beginning 
in March. Some of the films scheduled 
for presentation include I Be Done, Been 
Was Is. about the lives of black women 
comedians, and Bush Mama, which 
examines the life of a welfare recipient 
living in the Watts community of Los 
Angeles. Hartman hopes to be able to 
present these and other movies at the 
Dixwell Community House, as well as 
at Yale. "Lots of people in the New 
H aven community come out to see 
black 
films," Hartman 
said. 
For 
example, She's Cotta Have It, Spike Lee's 
film about several black Brooklynites, 
drew a large part of its audience from 
people who live in New Haven and 
who are not associated with Yale 
University. Because of such interest, 
the members of Mumbo Jumbo have 
maintained, throughout their planning 
and development, 
commitment 
toward exposing their films to local 
New Haven residents. 

The response and financial support 
elicited so far indicate that interest in 
Mumbo Jumbo 
will 
be great. 
Hartman and Muharrar do not believe 
that black and Third World directors 
will enjoy widespread distribution for a 
long time to come, but at least here in 
New Haven they will be assured an 
audience. 


**Over the Limit**
**Author: Martha Brant**
**Page number(s): 6**

John Sylvain (TD '87) stands to lose his dining hall position. 

Some students live from day to day 
and year to year at Yale never 
worrying about the cost of their 
education. 

Though 
projected 
tuition, room and board for next year, 
$17,020, may interest or even shock 
those students, it probably doesn't 
scare them. But 35 percent of Yale 
undergraduates receive scholarship aid 
from the University, and many of 
them are worried. The government 
and Yale have tightened their financial 
aid policy and students are beginning 
to feel their grip. "I'm being paid close 
attention by the Financial Aid Office 
and Bursar's Office. I was told I could 
earn 98 more dollars for the rest of the 
year," john Sylvain (TD '87) said. 

Most Yale financial aid packages 
consist of a 
scholarship and 
"self-help"-a loan and/or a job. This 
plan limits income from on-campus 
jobs by imposing an earnings ceiling 
which varies for each student. The 
6 The New Journal/February 27, 1987 
catch is that when students exceed their 
ceilings, their scholarships decrease the 
next year. Jaqueline Foster, Director 
of the Undergraduate Financial Aid 
Office (UFAO) explained the 
reasoning behind this policy: "If you 
make more than the loan- and job-
allotted amount, then you have more 
money than you have need for. If you'll 
be in a job in which you're making 
$6000 then we would give you less 
scholarship because you'll need less 
scholarship." 

But many financial aid students 
question a system which penalizes 
them for working hard. "The basic 
paradox is that if you're on financial 
aid and you need the money then you 
can't work, and if you're not on 
financial aid and don't need the 
money, then you can work as much as 
you want," Sylvain explained. Sylvain, 
a TD dining hall student coordinator, 
pays S200 per month from his earnings 
'. 
toward his tuition. But though he needs 
his job to pay Yale's bill and stay at 
school, the UF AO has asked him to 
stop ~orking. Sylvain's situation reflects 
the UFAO's current difficulties in 
reconciling students' needs with Yale's 
changing approach to financial aid. 

Although earning ceilings for 
financial aid students have existed for 
years, they never caused a problem 
until recently. Students have gone over 
their limits in the past without fear 
because the UF AO did not pay close 
attention to their earnings. But this 
year a new computer system has made 
student incomes easier to supervise. In 
addition, recent amendments to the 
Higher Education Act of 1965 have 
placed tighter federal 
controls on 
financial aid policy. Foster reported 
that the Department of Education now 
requires 
UF AO to monitor 
students' on-campus earnings more 
strictly. As a 
result, students are 



**Title:  Earning Ceilings and Campus Jobs**
**Author: Martha Brant**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
paying closer attention to the running 
total printed on their pay check stubs. 

These figures and occasional warnings 
from employers are 
the only 
notifications that students are 
approaching their earning limits and 
may have to quit their jobs. 

Rather than jeopardize their 
scholarships in order to work, many 
students will leave their jobs unless the 
UFAO raises their earning ceilings. 

The threat of student workers suddenly 
quitting worries other staff members. 

Maureen Sullivan, head of Library 
Personnel, said, "Students are being 
notified that they have to stop working. 
This is causing a real problem for the 
supervisors because not only are they 
faced with not having someone to 
work, but they've developed 
a 
relationship with the student and care 
about the student 
as 
per-
son." Jonathan Warren (BR '88), who 
works at Sterling· Memorial Library, 
recalled learning that he would either 
have to quit his job or risk 
scholarship cut. "I work in the inter-
library loan office. Seniors are starting 
to come in like mad and the library 
really needs people, but I said, "Listen, 
if they (the UFAO) don't increase my 
ceiling, I'm leaving- I'm not ~orking 
here for free." Strict 
adhei.~nce to 
earning ceilings threatens to be most 
disruptive in the dining halls, where 
student workers earn the highest wages 
on campus and work long hours. 

Dining Hall managers are particularly 
vulnerable to exceeding their ceilings, 
because they make about eight dollars 
an hour and work at least ten hours per 
week. 

The UFAO has 
tried 
to 
find 
loopholes in the system to help students 
keep their campus jobs. Financial aid 
officers send their students through 
two routes to try to get their ceilings 
raised. First, a student can claim to 
have additional expense items which 
would 
warrant 
higher 
budget. 

According to Foster, "When somebody 
has earned more than they were 
supposed to, you can see if they had 
any additional expenses that weren't 
acknowleged in the standard budget. 
So we ask something like, "Does it cost 
you more money to travel than we 
allotted you?" In addition, students can 
claim to have a summer deficiency. 

The UF AO requires financial aid 
students to make about $1,400 over the 
summer, but if they do not make this 
much, the UFAO will often raise their 
ceiling. 

Both strategies to raise the earnings 
ceiling involve a fairly simple process, 
requiring no financial proof but only 
an 
occasional explanation. 

After 
learning that he would have to quit his 
job at the library, Warren went to the 
UFAO: "I walked into the Financial 
Aid office and said, 'What do I have to 
do to increase my ceiling?' They said 
'Do you have a summer savings 
deficiency? That's how we usually get 
around this problem. If you didn't 
make as much this summer as you 
were supposed to, you're allowed to 
make it up during the term.' So I said, 
'Oh, no I didn't,' and I filled out tht> 
form." The Financial Aid Office can't 
tell students to lie, but according to 
Sylvain, "People lie about it. You need 
to." 

But lying doesn't always work, and 
not all students can justify a sufficient 
earnings ceiling by declaring a summer 
deficiency or additional 
expenses. 

Diane Lloyd (ES 'H9) raised her 
t·ciling by 
$600. 
daiminj.{ extra 
expenses 
for 
books and 
travel. 

However, this increase is not enough 
and she has exhausted the UF AO's 
options. By spring break she will have 
passed the new ceiling and will have to 
quit her job. She lives off the money 
that she earns and her only option may 
The Financial Aid 
Office can't tell 
students to lie, but 
according to Sylvain, 
"People lie about it. 
You have to." 
be to work off-campus. "I put in one 
application for an off-campus job, but 
they don't seem too eager to hire Yale 
students," she said. Some students 
have 
turned 
off-campus jobs 
because the UFAO cannot keep track 
of earnings outside the University. But 
this strategy almost always results in 
lower wages and less flexible hours. In 
going off-campus to work, David 
Collin (TD '90) took a $2.50 pay cut. 

For some, resolving their earnings 
ceiling conflict will determine whether 
they remain at Yale. Sylvain's case has 
gone before a financial aid committee 
which 
will 
determine his 
fate. 

Examining such cases may encourage 
the UFAO to revise the current 
financial aid policy rather than to 
continue to rely on loopholes. Given 
the 
existing system, 
more com-
munication among financial aid 
officers, 
campus 
employers and 
students might prevent further 
disruption 
and 
worry. 

For 
now, 
financial aid students need to be 
conscious of Yale's clampdown, or at 
least to pay closer attention to the 
numbers on their pay check stubs. 

• 

Martha Brant, a sophomore in Timothy 
Dwight, is on the staff ojTNJ. 

T hrough a loophole. J onathan Warren (BR '88) got his earnings ceiling raised. 


**Title:  John Murray**
**Author:  No Author Listed**
**Page number(s): 8**

Shortly aft.,r th., Mwnd W orld War h., got marri~ and start.,d a family. Then cam., a dental practice and passage through middle ag.,. This y.,ar , 
J ohn Murray graduates from Yale. 


**Title: Generations Apart**
**Author: Susan Orenstein**
**Page number(s): 9**

The 1294 faces appearing in this year's 
Old Campus belong to students with 
different racial backgrounds, interests, 
and places to call home, but they have 
in common a trait easily picked up in 
pictures- their youth. Another, much 
smaller group of freshmen don't have 
pictures in tlie Old Campus. Known as 
Special Students, they fill nil¥! places 
in this year's entering class, >and 33 
places overall. Most are over 30 years 
old, and they commute considerable 
distances, restructure work schedules 
and sacrifice family time in order to 
pursue the college degree that, for 
various reasons, has eluded them. If 
the traditional Old Campus profiles the 
Class of '90 by asking who has edited 
their school newspaper, acted in plays 
or cried at their 
high 
school 
graduation, then a hypothetical Old 
Campus for Special Students might ask 
who has worked as a doctor, founded a 
company, or cried at their son or 
daughter's high school graduation. 

Along with the profiles, the pictures 
of the class would look strikingly 
different. At an art history lecture 
attended by hundreds of students, 
Beverly Graham's long silver hair 
distinguished her even from the back. 

O nce the owner of an interior-design 
business in Seattle, 
Washington, 
Graham moved east and enrolled with 
the first group of Special Students in 
1977. At that time they could take up 
to 18 courses for credit, only half the 
requirements for an undergraduate 
degree. Many of them came for the 
same reasons that over 100 non-degree 
students come today: to prepare for 
graduate school, to gain background 
for a specific career, to accumulate 
college credits, or to find personal 
enrichment. But Graham didn't want 
her education 
stop 
halfway. 

Discouraged by 
Yale's 
policy, 
she 
applied elsewhere to finish up the 
second half of her degree. Then she 
learned that Yale was beginning to 
accept students into a full degree 
program for the fall of 1982. She 
applied, was accepted again, and 
started new courses later that year. 

Successful 
in 
business, 
Graham 
didn't need a diploma to advance 
professionally, but she felt she was 
missing something personally. "I felt I 
was a very unique person and very 
capable. People would assume I had 
gone to college, and I wondered if they 
changed their opinion of me because 
I hadn't. Maybe that bothered me," she 
says. Although she had taken some 
college art courses after finishing high 
school, 
her education had been 
interrupted by 
marriage, 
her 
husband's 
Naval 
assignments, 
motherhood. Over 20 years later, as 
her own children finished college or got 
married, she decided to return to 
school. 

"They are the only 
ones who can have a 
developed sense of 
social change, and 
social change is what 
history is all about." 

According to Edith · MacMullen, 
administrator of the program, desire for 
personal fulfillment accounts for the 
enrollment of many of the women in the 
program- in fact, women make up 25 of 
the 33 students this term. "At my age 
they had families, worked to put their 
spouses through school. So we have 
numbers of them in their late 30's and 
40's who are extraordinary, but for 
whom going to college was not an 
automatic path," MacM ullen says. 

Professors such as J ohn Blum, whose 
3 7 
year-old daughter r ecen tly 
graduated from the U n iversity of 
Massachusetts, feel that the disparity 
in numbers between men a nd women 
in the program is not coincidental. 

"Many women didn't get to go to college, 
but conscious of themselves and the 
women's move1nent they want to go 
back to it," Blum explains. 

Priscilla Sample, 31 years old, lives 
with her husband and son an hour from 
Yale. 

She 
felt 
unc h a ll e n ged 
by her secretarial work in a law firm 
and realized she would never move 
into a higher position without a de-
gree. She currently does not participate 
in the degree program at Yale, but 
she hopes to be accepted into it next fall, 
has 
star ted 
t aking 
courses. "Through the years, getting a 
degree has always been important to 
me. 
I always thought I had 
potential to do more," she says. 



**Yale's Special Students**
**Author: Unlisted**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
person my age, I had a good salary, 
but that was it. It wouldn't have been a 
great salary for me at 40." 
Sample's professional considerations 
usually don't apply to the men in the 
program, who tend to enroll at an 
older age. When John Murray applied 
to Yale, he had an established dental 
practice in Greenwich, CT. He had 
never finished his BA degree, having 
been accepted early into dental school 
because of the great demand for 
doctors and dentists after the Second 
World War. "Before I got into this," he 
says, "I felt I was in a cultural rut, I felt 
I was working and supporting my 
family and I wasn't expanding." He 
never planned to leave dentistry, but at 
62 he talks about a career change. "I'm 
much more interested in what goes on 
around me. I used to read the front 
page of the newspaper and think I 
couldn't do anything about that. But 
now I think I can do something, and 
I'm particularly interested in world 
hunger. I might get a master's degree 
in public health, the point being to 
contribute something to the children, 
to give something back," he says. 
Murray compares his current goals 
10 The New JoumaVFebruary 27, 1987 
to those of his son, who graduated 
college last year. In this case, the older 
Murray possesses the idealism, while 
the younger Murray looked for a job in 
banking. But with fewer worries about 
his financial security, Murray says he 
feels freer to pursue a lower-paying 
job, as well as an education at Yale. 
According 
to Cynthia 
Russett, 
a 
lecturer in history who served on a 
recent faculty committee reviewing the 
program, one of the greatest problems 
among Special· Students is the lack of 
any financial aid. The committee 
ran a survey among special students to 
help evaluate the program. "It was 
really quite touching to read about 
some of the financial sacrifice that's 
going on," Russett says. "Some of them 
were stretched to the very limit, and 
some .of them were saying, 'I'm 
drowning, I'm ·going to drop out.'" . 
Next month the general faculty will 
hear the committee report on the 
program and may implement a form of 
tinancial aid. Hut some may op-
pose 
giving assistance 
to 
Special 
Students 
if it taps 
into tradi-
tional undergraduate funds, "It's got to 
come out of the pocket of the regular 
undergrads," Blum says, "and 
it becomes very difficult to draw the 
line. I think financial aid should only 
be offered 
employees of the 
university." Betty T rachtenberg, 
director of admissions for the program, 
also wants to preserve undergraduate 
funds, but she thinks aid for Special 
Students can be found in "creative 
ways." Recognizing that a lack of aid 
limits the variety of older students who 
can attend Yale, she sees a real need 
for the current policy to change. 
"Minority students are not represented 
in the program. I think the lack of 
financial aid may be a factor, though 
it does 
not give 
complete 
explanation," she says. 
While the $980 tuition per course 
contributes to keeping some students 
away from Yale, others can afford to 
come but must continue working full-
time. Thea Guidone, a member of this 
year's freshman class, has a job as a 
facilitator in management and union 
discussions at Southern New England 
Telephone. The phone company 
reimburses her for any courses she 
takes in which she receives an A or a B, 
and her family does not lose her 
income to tuition costs. But at the same 
time that working helps Guidone to 
stay in school, it makes her schedule 
considerably more difficult to manage. 
During the phone company's strike last 
fall, she worked ten-hour days, six 
days a week while taking two courses. 
She explains that working not only 
tires her but keeps her from feeling 
relaxed among other undergraduates. 


"Part of the reason I feel older than 
everyone else is because of the clothes I 
wear from 
work," she says. 
"In 
Women's Studies, the teacher would 
mention the vJoman with the tennis 
shoes and briefcase, and I would be 
wearing tennis shoes and have a 
briefcase. I felt like I stuck out like a 
sore thumb." 
Even for Special Students who don't 
work, class situations may make them 
feel 
separate from 
the 
main 
community at Yale. Sample says she 
feels students view her as someone who 
could have taught them high school 
algebra. Before class, wearing a red 
sweater and jeans, she talks about 
looking different. "Behind my eyes is 
the same person that I was at their age, 
but I don't think they see that person. 
Yes, 
I've 
obviously had more 
experiences, but I never think about 
that. The changes are so gradual, you 
see yourself as one continuous person. 
It doesn't change your ability to be a 
friend, to have a conversation." Like 
Sample, 
Graham 
also 
remembers 
looking different in the eyes of her 
younger classmates. "I was always 
early," she says, "and no matter how 
crowded the class became, there were 
always empty seats beside me. They 
always left me room." 
At the same time that Special 
Students feel one kind of isolation on 
the Yale campus, they feel a different 
kind when they go home. For many of 
them, "the ride over" means more than 
20 minutes on the highway, a few 
traffic lights and parking in the city. It 


---

"Occasionally I'll run 
into someone saying 
'That's nice, dear. 
That's very good, it 
will keep you busy, 
and we can run the 
world.'" 


means shifting points of view. "About 
halfway here, I get into the student 
mode," Sample says. "I don't talk about 
my husband, my son, my read ing 
groups anymore. And then, later on 
the way home, after a certain point, I 
start thinking about the laundry, I 
start thinking about my husband ." 
As a film student, Sample finds 
screening times inconvenient, and she 
relies on her family 
make 
adj ustments. "It's very hard to find a 
babysitter who 
will stay on 
Wednesday night until 1 o'clock in the 
morning," she says. To enable her to 
watch films in the afternoon, her 
husband arranges his schedule to work 
at home one day a week. In addition, 
the family as a whole accepts changes 
resulting from demands on Sample's 
time. "I think I rely on my husband 
and my son more to be able to come up 
with meals. They eat hot dogs now, 
and we fix things quicker, and they 
don't complain. I think a lot of times 
the guilt is self-imposed tha~ I'm not 
doing enough. They never say that." 
Outside her family, Sample.says she 
finds support among her peers~ · but not 
in the form of conversations about her 
work or her struggle to stay in school. 
"M y very best friend found ou t she was 
pregnant when I got into school, and 
she realized it meant as much to me as 
that did to her. She was happy for me, 
even though she didn't 
unrl~rstand 
it," Sample says. She finds that men 
don't always take her seriously. "Most 
of the men in my community are for it, 
but occasionally I'll run into someone 
saying 'That's nice, dear. That's very 
good, it will keep you busy, and we can 
run the world."' 
Difficulties in integrating the 
various parts of their lives create a 
common ground for conversation 
among Special Students, but few 
channels exist for them to get to know 
each other. Although entering 
members of each class are affiliated 
with the same residential college, many 
don't have time for regular meals, and 
they miss the chance to talk to people 
who can readily identify with them. 
Russett says that man y 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Susan Ormstein**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"I sat there for about 15 
minutes. 
think , 
connect 
I 
couldn't 
my writing 
with my brain. 
fidgeted, I perspired." 

much on the practical considerations of 
assigning building space or changing 
words, 
but on 
the 
philosophical 
considerations of what teaching Special 
Students means. These considerations 
don't stop at the gains for the Special 
Students themselves. In her experience 
teaching history, Russett finds that 
older students add a valuable per-
spective to discussion. "They are the 
only ones who can have a developed 
sense of social change, and social 
change is what history is all about," she 
says. "It keeps students from feeling 
that it was all inevitable, to give them a 
sense of the person and the struggle, of 
the time when maybe it didn't seem 
things would change- that history isn't 
just a smooth progression." 

In one of his classes, 
Murray 
remembers a time when he provided 
much of the input for a discussion on 
American politics. "We were studying 
the Cuban confrontation 
in 
Kennedy administration. The con-
ference was in a 
building across 
campus. I was ten minutes late, and 
when I walked in, a boy jumped up 
and said, 'Dr. Murray, what are you 
doing here?' H e was a patient of mine. 
Then the TA said, 'I wasn't here 
during the Cuban Missile Crisis, but 
you were. Tell us about it.'" 

In evaluating the program, Yale 
must also think about its general 
purpose in education, and the ways 
Special Students as individuals value a 
degree. "All I asked my professors was 
to assume that I was there like anyone 
else, to learn," Grah am says. She 
found 
that this assumption was 
sometimes denied. "I was planning lO 
go to England to study for the summer, 
and this professor said, 'Well, Beverly, 
how are you going to go to England for 
three 
months? 
Don't you 
have 
children? Don't you have a husband?' I 
said to him, 'I don't think you 
understand how important it is to me 
to be at Yale,' and tears were in my 
eyes. After that things were better." 

She spent the summer in England. 
• 
Susan Ormstein. a junior in Trumbull, is 
associau tditor of TNJ. 


**Title: Profile/Tamar Lehrich With a Righteous Beat**
**Author: Tamar Lehrich**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

Walk into Richard Hill's Tuesday 
night drumming class, and you'll find 
nine students sitting in a circle- each 
on a stool or wooden bench with a 
drum resting against their knees. The 
class is held i 
studio on the 
Provine 
second floor 
uilding on 
Chapel S 
stands, 
drums, 
Niger i 
i 
a smil 
Brazil-1{ 
d the small room. Large 
rugs co ~~ he walls, and the street 
lights s lr \ in through the window. 
There's prk clock which reads 8:45. 
Twenty 1 
utes later it still reads 
8:45. 

In 
er of the studio, you'll find 
~
~§~!~~~ 
wryly calls the Mikata (Me-
archives- several photos and 
e 
drawings of the original 
members of the New Haven-based, 
Afro-Caribbean funk band which Hill 
created in 1982. You'll see pictures of 
them in concert in Central Park and at 
Lighthouse Point. Ask Hill about the 
drawing of a cop standing on a pier 
surrounded by musicians, and he'll tell 
you of 
e time that Mikata went to 
n to play by the water. As 
a police 
roached the crowd that 
music 
had 
ered around the band, Hill 
ed for the close of the piece. "I 
us to stop on our own," Hill 
g of class Hill rubs 
cream on his 
nds as though pre-
paring for a ritu . The students get 
comfortable, looking from Hill to their 
drums as they practice. "Don't rush. 
Take your time," he says evenly. "Dah, 
dah, dah, dah," he counts aloud. 
People warm up from the cold. Sweat-
ers come off. The students watch Hill, 
following his lead, changing tempo as 
he does. Sounds of the drums echo 
through the room. "Sounds great," he 
says occas 
more: "The offbeat 
not pulled into a st 
by the next 
downbeat. It tricks you, but if it's done 
eloquently enough, the dancers will be 
pulled into accenting that place." He 
claps as they play. They repeat the 
same rhythm over and over. "Why 
does the tempo suddenly speed up?" 
someone asks, 
Hill 
answers 
straightforwardly: "Anxiety related to 
boredom." Heads nod in agreement. 
Understatement seems to be the 
Richard Hill style. He stares straight 
ahead as he talks, rarely making eye 
contact. He speaks in measured tones, 
clearly and strongly. When he jokes it's 
a complete deadpan. Explaining where 
the drums used in the class are made, 
Hill says, "Well, some are from 
Mexico, one was built by a friend of 
mine, and . . . uh . . . that one is a 
typical Ricky Ricardo type." People 
laugh, but Hill's face hardly moves. 


Percussionist 
member of 
Hill's since 1 
Richard's sense «J:n.;~~~.-
pretty subtle 
same time he'll come 
something outrageously funny." He's 
been known to break into song 
spontaneously during class. "He's also 
a 
great 
impressionist," 
says Jeff 
McQuillan, co-director of the group. 
"He has that ability to capture the 
spirit, the soul of somebody, and act it 
out." 

Though not 
at 
all an 
imposing 
presence, 
there's something about 
Richard Hill's manner, his intensity 
perhaps, that almost compels you to 
focus on him, to listen to his every 
word. He's thin, average height with 
dark hair and eyes and a long narrow 
face. From the outside, he looks li 
your typical white guy from the 
East Side who played the drums 
junior high- which is actually true. 

Yet, you need ooly talk with him for a 
few minutes to discover that it's more 
complicated, much deeper than that. 
"He's a hard person to try ·to pin 
down," says Maureen O 'Leary (SY 
'87), who's taking Hill's 
class this semester. "He 
much, but you know 
there 
" 

Music 
Richard 
integral part of 
practically from the 
in Manhattan in 
the early 50s. 
father, a publisher of 
political, leftist texts, and his mother, 
who owned her own retail shop, both 
played 
lot of jazz and 
blues 
recordings and frequently had 
musicians play in their home. Meeting 
singer Paul Robeson, blacklisted for 
his supposed "communist" activities, 
made a lasting impression on Hill. "I 
was at 
party 
where 
he 
was 
performing," he says. 
" It was 
extremely thrilling to me, because he 
was this mythic figure." Then on his 
own Hill started listening to a lot of 
rural blues, jazz and some gospel. 

Though he starting playing a drum 
let in junior high and studied with a 
professional jazz drummer after his 
parents had moved the family to 
Connecticut, Hill wasn't a seriou 
student of music until he reached h · 
mid-twenties. "I had an affinity fi 
music, a good 
rhythm, 
but 
undisciplined," 
music you have to su 
an incredible amour.t of rudgery, 
almost humiliating." But gra 
Hill learned that he had to get pa 
barrier, to go through the long p cess 
of practicing and rehearsing in ord 
learn. 

As a white interested in black music, 
Hill discovered early on the problems 
of living in a separatist society. In 
college at Antioch, he was exposed o 
Afro-Cuban and West African mu · 
A friend gave him a record of folklori 
traditional African drumming, an 
Hill found that the music had a 
on him, he didn't know how 
about exploring his interest 
. "Not only are neighborhoods 
along racial lines, but so are 
,,,. .... ·v'J'" and stores," Hill says. 
hear a black artist on a 
station, and you seldom 
a white artist on a black one. 
rossover is a fad, an anomaly barely 
"Crossover is a rad, an 
anomaly barely 
tolerated and the artist 
doesn't usually survive 
very long." 

i n 
sic. 

ill saw Haitian dancer ean-
estin~ perform, he felt as if 
all 
exposure he previously had to 
r -Cari b 
came into 
focu . 
ew 
that 
extremely powerful. I just had to learn 
about it for myself," Hill says. So Hill 
bought a hand drum a!ld attended 
dasst's taught by Dt•stirw's drummer 
and then sat in with the drummer 
during performances and even began 
taking dance classes himself. 

"There's a gladness that takes over when we start to play together in class. Your hands take 
off-it 
a rush. an 
sensation." 



**Title:  Untitled**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
participating on a daily basis with the 
tribe, as far as he knows he now has the 
most complete written account of the 
life of that particular traditional 
religious group. 


Hill even agreed to join the religious 
Soon Haitian drumming and dan- tit. As an initiation rite he had to get 
cing became Hill's main focus. H e 
n his hands and knees in a room 
supported himself by playing with 
"th 
shrines 
constructed 
from 
Troupe Shan go, a community-based 
d 
the 
dance company of non-professional '1~~~~~~~r;anim 
and talk to 
d ancers who learned their 
craf f. 
as though they were 
through participating in the religio 
en swallowed different 
which we call voodoo- a derivation 
d pieces of chalk and 
the African traditional r ligiO'fi....J,Qf~tNL!rl~t'RilW!ftlltlicine from the shrines 
worshiping a multiplicity o 
· tts. ' 
Icohol. As he performed 
was 
raised with 
the opposite of 
ver the course of a year, 
religious upbringing. Whatever 
is sense of skepticism anc! 
ideology I got was areligious," Hill 
objectivity 
lipped away. "There's a 
says. A declared atheist, he soon found 
line you c 
ss when you have to 
himself participating in voodoo cere-
relinquish 
r objectivity, allow your 
belief system to take root in you, 
then come what may, you go throu 
the process," he says. "Eventually y 
emerge somewhere, try to reconstruc 
your scientific apparatus and see what 
you can 
figure 
out." When the 
members of the cult asked Hill if he 
wanted to go through the deeper 
initiation, he decided against it, for a 
vow of secrecy would prevent him 
revealing anything he had 
learned. "My goal had to do more with 
the music rather than the layers of 
ritual," he says. He eventually turned 
his research into his master's thesis. 


Returning to the United States in 
1977, Hill found it difficult to adjust to 
the American 
lifestyle and value 
system. He decided not to live in New 
York, moved to Middletown and 
began studying drumming privately 
monies, his first exposure to music as a 
religious ritual. "I was drumming for 
people who were dancing, becoming 
possessed, and going into trances," Hill 
explains. "I was fascinated and blown 
away by the whole thing." 


In his teaching, Hill combines a conceptual, analytic, and linear approach with an intuitive 
o ne. 


Wanting to explore and prove an 
instinctual belief that the music was 
responsible for inducing the trance, 
Hill decided to live in Haiti for a few 
weeks and then to travel to West 
Africa. From 1974 to 1976 he studied 
at the University of Ghana with the 
ute of African Studies masters 
incorporating a year of 
and a year of field work. 
months Hill lived with a 
religious group in a town 
Ghanaian coast. There he 
to speak pidgin English and a 
f 
e, 
the language of 
n 
Ghana. 


He also 
in some of the tribal 
ning the songs and dances 


H ill 
did considerable 
research, 
after 
three 
months he 
realized he wouldn't have enough time 
to solve the mystery of the music's role 
in transinduction. "That would have 
taken me a few years of living there 
and becoming a 
master of the 
drumming," Hi!J says. Still, through 
collecting songs, transcribing them·, 
doing 
field 
recordings, 
a nd 


--- Page 17 ---


~ 
0 "I saw this 
perspective. 
culture 
I 
lll 
saw 
myself caught In the 
1· ving like an 
av1ng 
t of 
ility." 
where you are in relation to the thing 
you want to learn," he explains. 
"Assume you're a rank beginner, and 
take the second block and place it on 
the first, making sure the foundation is 
there." Maria Sieira (SM,'90), 
a 
student in Hill's class this semester, 
says that he "leads you· into the patterns 
of the drums, starts from the bottom 
and goes up. It's not 'look at the 
pattern and imitate,'- he wants us 
with a Ghanaian tea e , Freeman 
to know what we're doing and why." 


Donkor. "Basically, I w 
a state of 
Hill's experience in Ghana and hi 
cultural limbo for a y 
fter I got 
feelings about the communal lifest 
back. 
I wasn't able 
eal with 
there are expressed in his teachmg. 
American alienation, w 
" ou never learned anything in his 
potent stuff," Hill says. 


culture in perspective. I 
caught in the process, li 
animal, having relinquis 
my human sensibility." H 
Ghanaian village where 
able to walk out of 
ouse, see 
children and people working, selling 
food and always interacting. "You're 
part of a social network instantly from 
the moment you wake up," he says. 
"Once you see the virtues of that kind 
of life, it's hard to do without it." 


Yet, Hill never stopped playing and 
learning. 
He joined a 
four-man 
traditional percussion ensemble with. 
Donkor, 
Delerme and McQuillan 
called Colobo which performed at 
schools and summer festivals. He 
began teaching drumming so that he 
could practice what he had learned as a 
master drummer. "I was trying to 
actualize some of these things I had 
learned in a cursory way in Ghana," he 
explains. He 
s joined a drum · 
workshop in 
York 
to Ramos which had a 
~ schedule of midnight 
am 
\.laying, taping what the 
tJ 
laye2 
"->ncentrating on the note you're 
hstening to it, and theri\ ~-
,Jl\lying but on everything you're 
again. "It was a constant 
ing." 
popping the bubble of elv. 1 
~.,.. -
Jit 
recognizes 
problem 
in 
coming to grips with the m 
, 
ill 
teachin 
frican music, a spontaneous 
says. "At that point in 
r e, late for 
and emotional creation, to Americans. 
someone as a student, I I 
ned how to 
In the African tradition, where music 
study, to study music. I learned how to 
is integrated into patterns of political, 
learn, and to learn very fast." 


H ill began to form what could be 
called his philosophy of teaching. "If 
you want to learn something, find out 
class that you could do independently. 
You only learned parts that would 
work in a community setting," explains 
Esther Kaplan (MC'. "87), who took 
Hill's class two year:. ago. "That..-:~_.--~~-. 
really great, especially in this country, 
;_---~~ .. t.F,-· 
where learning any instrument is a 
really individualistic thing." 


Though Hill admits that teaching 
college students can be frustrating 
because he finds them "self-deluded" 
and having "a tremendous deficit in 
terms of experience and hard 
knowledge,'' he's amazed by 
seriousness and sensitivity of those who 
enroll in his classes. "It's hard trying to 
make what's intangible 
music 
tangible or to make students believe it's 
going to be tangible," he says. "When 
the mental concept becomes a feeling, 
when thinking a 
tempo becomes 
f~ing a tempo, it's definitely an 
~'n.fangible experience." Maureen 
O'Leary explains it this way: "There's a 
gladness that takes over when we sta_rt 
to play together in class. Your hands 
~ take off- it gives you a rush, an 
~mazing sensation. You're no longer 
~laying, but on everything you're 
peripheral participants are crucial 
to 


**Mikata's Music and Richard Hill**
**Author: Tamar Lewin**
**Page number(s): 19-20**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
African and Latin groups and who first 
met H ill in Ghana; vocalist Synia, the 
only woma 
n the group; drummer 
Ned 
• rumpeter George Alfred; 
bass1 /co-director McQuillan. 
who 
ays synthesizer, guitar, 
marimba, 
d dru 
, 
so 
s as 
their co-direc r. a anger and lyr i · t, 
man ager, ne, ti or, and publici . 
Though the 
ured in Japan · 
December and 
leased an albu , 
"Gang-Gang D 
, " last April on t e 
j azzmania label, 
ichard H ill is 
ot 
abou t to become complacent wit the 
group's success or lower his stan 
rds. 
H e 
still 
feels 
frustrated 
b 
the 
·"!.YoM~Qtl~·of the group' music 
s and 
y 
"'""~.....,, ~rc;:ed to 
of com-
eop!e are 
ntrolling and chipping a 
y at your 
v ion all the way along the r ad," Hill 
sa . "You start asking fundamental 
que · ons when you're confronted with 
the c 
· 
s you have to deal 
with- art 
o the core of the 
person's fundamental being, and that 
kind of contradiction can be 
irresolvable." 


Another problem for Mikata is the 
on e 
of amplification during 
performance, a process which can 
distort the band's sound. "T hat sen se of 
rhyth mic in terlocking, ._-""'"......-
with the feel o he music s 
of all 
elodic and harmonic 
e group i ~ooking for 
...-.lllijfr~m 
n electrified, 
huge pop sound, 
~ . "It's hard." 
Hill strongly believes 
everyone in 
the band m ust rela~t each other 
before 
they c~a~ l te 
to 
audience- a hard t 
1f they can't 
hear each other pl 
admits that 
the group does its 'i/mtense playing 
in rehearsal when J{ey,can play softer 
and focus on the 
c. 

**Title: Dealing in Dreams**
**Author: Erin KeUy**
**Page number(s): 23-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The stocky Tennessean strides confidently around the lecture room, his starched white shirt beginning to wrinkle like an accordion down his back. His audience listens intently, scribbling notes as the man says, "$1.9 billion in bonds was shared by six major investment banks last year." He intersperses quotations to enliven the presentation- his sources include Aristotle, Ecclesiastics, and Cyndi Lauper. The man is a salesman and his product is investment banking. David M. Darst, executive with the major Wall Street investment bank Goldman, Sachs & Co., taught the SOM course last fall which surveyed this exploding field. Yale undergraduates, some wearing suits, flocked to hear him discuss his coveted profession. And they seem to have acted on his advice. Growing numbers of students applied this year to investment banks. Boston received roughly 200 applications from Yale alone. Many others praise the profession, citing large salaries and glamorous benefits. Others view this enthusiasm warily, suspecting their friends of "selling out." Undergraduates on both sides of the debate wonder what such a large percentage of the class of '87 is getting itself into. 

Investment banking is a financial service industry which organizes financing for corporate and non-profit entities. Largely because of federal legislation deregulating the banking industry, investment banking has grown explosively in the past several years, producing the recent glut of corporate mergers. Liberal arts majors at Yale and at other prestigious colleges generally apply to two-year analyst programs, during which they work long hours and earn $30-50 thousand per year, including bonuses. After their two years, many analysts go on to business school or to other jobs. Yale students who have entered investment banking describe a job that is both glamorous and dull, rewarding and frustrating- a job which does not always match the expectations of undergraduates. 

Reports of investment banks' high wages draw Victoria Beach (PC'87), who criticizes the hypocrisy of affluent students who feign indifference to money. "Money's cool. It's too bad you need it, but there's no other way," she explained. Tired of depending on her parents, Beach seeks the self-respect that comes with financial independence. She admires those who prosper through hard work. "There's the whole American dream thing of the young person who has no money and works his way up. My parents did that, and I'd like to imitate it." Many Yale students, highly sensitive to the fact that their privileged education costs someone $16 thousand annually, feel compelled to prove their ability to earn the kind of money that has supported them. 

High wages attract many for whom the world of finance is not a primary interest. Though she admits that her main interests are international relations and architecture, Beach argues that neither field offers attractive positions for first-year college graduates. Like many, Beach views not pursuing a secure, well-paying career immediately after college as risky and irresponsible to herself and her parents. She mentions friends who have gone into architecture and writing. The architect resents the limitations of his artistic expression imposed by his client's tastes. The writer must teach, which she dislikes, to support herself. Beach wants to return to her other interests, but says she will do so only when she has acquired the financial security investment banking can provide. 

Many Yalies who do want to pursue business see investment banking as the ideal introduction to the complex web of the American economy. Brendan Fitzgerald (SM '87) is an Italian major who eventually intends to apply his knowledge of four languages to controlling his own international shipping firm. Fitzgerald asserts that the current high interest in investment banking does not prove that students like himself intend to give their lives to that career. Instead, he sees an analyst program as the ideal stepping-stone, providing the concrete business experience absent from his liberal-arts education. 

Like Fitzgerald, who wants to put aside Italian literature and learn something practical, some liberal-arts graduates are drawn to investment banking as an arena of "real-world" action and accomplishment. Ed Fleming (MC '88) says his interest in the profession relates to his conviction that deals he could make as an investment banker would provide the concrete sense of accomplishment that his abstract education has not. "You want to leave your mark on the world. If I could drive through New York and tell my grandkids, 'I arranged the financing for that building,' that would be satisfying." 

Many students who want to accomplish social change believe that their best course is to work through the existing system. They have grown cynical about the idea that bright-eyed enthusiasm and liberal arts education are enough to solve complex political and economic problems. Investment banking interests these students as a rigorous introduction to the workings of money in the "real world." Many seniors stress the value of working within the system. Philip Lynch (DC '87) says that his investment banking motivations are not altruistic, but that he does see finance as the best road to solving world problems. "I think it's inefficient for a smart, educated Yale graduate to spend time going to Africa and passing out food." Clearly, Lynch feels that Yale graduates can be more effective by going into finance. 

In addition to their more practical considerations, many undergraduates say their fascination with investment banking comes from a perception that the job offers power and glamour. Fitzgerald says the prospect of manipulating huge sums makes investment banking more attractive to him than traditional manufacturing industries. "I firmly believe American industry needs more young smart people; unfortunately, it just doesn't have the appeal. What's the glory in making high-diameter steel piping?" Awareness of the deterioration of American industries, such as US Steel and General Motors, swings many toward investment banking. When college graduates face the choice of climbing aboard a sinking industry or hopping into a job which profits enormously from restructuring that industry, investment banks often win out in grabbing the most qualified. 

Numbers blur on the computer screen at 3 a.m. as Peter Phleger (SM '85), former English major, runs his fingers through his hair, trying to stay awake to finish the financial analysis for the leverage buyout his company has undertaken. He works the keyboard mechanically, his concentration spent. Phleger will be in bed by 4 a.m., and then back to work by 9 a.m. He expects to work all weekend. Scoffing at the idea that his job is glamorous, Phleger says, "these magazine articles come out portraying investment banking as a sexy job. That image of glamour serves analysts well, and they perpetuate it, but it's a misrepresentation. There ain't no glamour in front of the computer at 4 a.m." 

Although analysts stress that their responsibilities vary with company and department, Phleger's project illustrates several common aspects of the job. Halfway through his second year at the small investment bank of Dillan Reed in New York, Phleger works with seven other analysts in performing much of the fundamental analysis required for the financial advisement his company offers. Phleger explained that he was currently working on a leverage buyout deal, describing it as "buying a company with very little of your own money and then using profits from


**Title: Investment Banking: High Salaries, Long Hours**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
the company to pay back the loan." In 
this type of deal, the client, interested 
in acquiring a company but unsure of 
how 
to arrange the 
financing, 
approaches Dillan 
R eed, 
:vvhich 
evaluates the purchaser's assets as well 
as 
the 
financial 
situation of the 
company the client wants to buy. 
Incorporating factors such as the 
current and projected activity of the 
market and its possible effect on the 
growth of the industry involved, the 
investment bank engineers a strategy 
to finance the purchase. The bank then 
tries to sell the plan to the purchaser, 
and receives a percentage of the sale as 
commission if the deal goes through. 
Analysts serve in this operation by 
"number crunching"- performing the 
fundamental calculations- as well as 
by doing the backg.round financial 
research that goes into the report. 
Because his firm is small, Phleger 
bears responsibility for several facets of 
total 
deal, 
while 
in 
larger 
companies the work is divided more by 
department. When the analysis is 
complete, Phleger writes the report 
and visits the client to try to s~l ~ the 
proposal. 


Barry johnson OE '85), a first-year 
analyst at First :aoston, said that the 
"glamour level" of his job vacillates 
widely. "First Boston buys you a first-
class ticket and you go and present 
what you've done, and you're a real 
star. But then the next day you may be 
back in the office doing mindless 
xeroxing for someone." But unlike 
Phleger, Johnson feels that the excite-
ment of presenting his own analysis to 
a client and making the sale outweighs 
the tedium of performing "grunt 
work." Johnson mentioned his col-
leagues as another source of pleasure 
in his job. "At Yale you're used to 
working around smart, 
motivated 
people- that's what this office is like, 
and I find it stimulating." 


Susan McGarry (BK '83) explained 
that she gains more satisfaction from 
using her job as a means toward ac-
complishing good 
for companies. 
McGarry, who holds the second-level 
!>Osition of associate at Shearson-
Lehman Brothers, worked with a small 
company in Oregon which was finan-
cially strapped because of competition 
with the Japanese. By 
finding a 
corporate partner for the company, her 
firm allowed it to continue to grow. 
M cGarry 
said 
that at 
Yale 
her 
political views did not represent what 
she considered the stereotypically con-
servative 
politics of investment 
bankers. However, she then felt that 
altering 
system 
required 
understanding its financial structure. 
Investment bankers often stress the 
social benefits of their profession, 
asserting that while large corporate 
mergers grab media attention, their 
firms' activities include a number of 
projects \\hich aid smaller businesses. 
In addition. thev benefit the American 
consumer by m'aking individual com-
panies and rhe general economy more 
efficient. 


Despite such arguments fo.r the 
social value of investment banking. 
some economists take a dubious view 
of the industn Thev believe that in-
vestment banking's ·focus on spec-
tacular deals could injure the long-
term health of the economy. Jeff 
Ro,cn''"·i~ ( Y.rlt• 'i.)) 1au~lll -:\1om·'. 
Credi1. and Bankin g~ last term. Accor-
ding to him. most students took the 
class because of interest in investment 
banking. However. he has concerns 
about the profession. vie-.ving it as not 
highly 
producli\'t~. Rosensweig ex-
plained thai some economists criticize 
im·estment bankrng for pulling in sta~­
g-er·ing -.um' but not adding to the 
econom' rn 1 ht• u·adit ional wav. bv 
manufactunn~ ,, product. lnvesimen't 
banks. he explaint·d. work mainly to 
rearrange already exrstmg economic 
structures. Rosensweig believes that 
emphasis on the the large buyouts and 
acquisitions which investment bankers 
engineer leads the nation into "a 
casino-like economy, rather than a 
more stable, long term economy that 
America needs." 


Though students may exaggerate 
social benefits of investment 
banking, they seem to be right about 
one thing: the wages. Commissions on 
investment banks' high-powered deals 
yield large salaries. The average 
analyst's annual salary is roughly S30 
thousand, with an additional year-end 
bonus related to performance. The 
bonus generally ranges from 15-50 per· 
cent of the analysts' pay, resulting in an 
enviable 
income. 
These 
rewards oft<;n keep people in the job. 
According to Johnson, "there are some 
financially obsessed investment 
bankers. Within the company, you 
hear stories of 28-yf.'ar-old 
vice 
presidents making S800 thousand a 
year and these are not lies." Johnson 
believes that for those who originally 
planned to stay in investment banking 
a short time, the money can become 
addictive. '"The thing is, the more 
money you make, the more you want, 
so you stay. You were 25, and then you 
turn around and you're 38." Phleger 
enjoys the flexibility his salary gives 
him, but sees potential harm: "There's 
a 
danger 
earning 
all 
that 
money- there's a tendt>ncy to hide 
behind it and feel superior to someone 
who's probably putting a lot more 
thought into their job than you are." 


Though many applicants 
to 
investment banks expect to enjo> Ne" 
York's culture and social life, analysts 
work almost constantly. Therr hours 
\'arv. but most work weekends and say 
that the unpredictable nature of the 
work 
makes 
plannin't social 
engagements 
nearly 
impossible. 
Phleger describes working at 
computer 
until 
4 
a.m. 
Friday 
morning. returning to o,,·ork at 9 a.m. 
Friday. attt>nding meetings all day. 
working all Fridav night. and then 
flyin'{ to \\'ashington. DC. to keep a 
date "ith his 
increasingly 
irate 
girlfriend. At a summons from his 
boss, he was back at his computer by 
10 p.m. and worked until 2 p.m. the 
next 
day. 
Over the 
telephone, 
Phleger's voice continually trails off. 
He apologizes, saying that he is too 
exhausted to put thoughts together 
well. "Normal people don't do this 
shit," Phleger says. J ohnson's hours at 
First Boston are not as extreme; he 
generally works a 10-12 hour day, as 
well as most Saturdays and Sundays. 
"But it's not all weekend," he explains. 
"Most Sundays you don't come in 
before noon." Johnson says he ca~ 
handle the hours, but he has little time 
for other parts of his life, such as 
playing the violin. "Life has to be more 
balanced," he says. 


Many analysts voiced the concern 
undergraduates drift 
toward 
investment banking for the wrong 
reasons, with little knowledge of the 
actual nature of the job. 
Susan 
Hauser, dean of Career Services,says 
too many students don't know . what 
they want. "Where do you think this 
word 
'clueless' comes 
from?" . she 
demands. 
Large numbers· of 
undergraduates apply to investment 
banks because it's easy. They need 
only submit resumes to "CAPS," which. 
forwards them to each company. In 
addition, for some StJJdents, the fact


**Title: Unfulfilled Expectations: Yale Students and Investment Banking**
**Author: Eri Kelly**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Too many students are leaving Yale "clueless," according to Susan Hauser, dean of Career Services.  that investment banks come to campus to interview gives them an advantage over other firms and organizations in the public sector. Others voice the criticism that Career Services does not emphasize alternatives, so that seniors have little idea of what types of jobs exist.

Professionals express concern that liberal arts majors suppress stronger interests to join the crowd and go into investment banking. Rosensweig believes that "a lot of students are pretending that what they want to do is put on dark suits and red ties with polka-dots and conform. I wish their interests were more broad." According to Phleger, his company has bound into a book the roughly 150 current Yale resumes it received for eight vacancies. Reading these resumes, Phelger said, "there are interesting people applying to this job. Sometimes I want to call them up and say 'think again.'"

Once seniors express interest and show promise, investment banks know how to make themselves attractive. They court candidates with style. Lynch was impressed by the way Prince Webber treated him during the interview process in New York, putting him up in a hotel room that cost $190 and buying him a $25 breakfast. "It blows your mind to be a college student and be treated like that. It's an ego boost," he says. Phleger says he fell into an easy trap in taking an analyst position. "In many ways it's an easy way to go. I did it. You send in your resume, put on your suit, and go over to CAPS. The guy loves you and you've got a job. It's paradoxically very safe, because you're told what to do with all your time for two years." Phleger says that investment banking recruiters exploit the confusion of liberal-arts graduates who are bombarded with the idea that their broad education is not marketable. "Investment banking is one of the only jobs that tells you you're great for being a liberal-arts major," he says.


In spite of warnings like Phleger's and tough competition, students interview in droves, pleased to have been offered an interview but put off by the pressure and attention they receive from other students. According to Beach, interviewing at CAPS is convenient but also frustrating. "You put on your suit and trudge over to CAPS, trying to hide from people on the way over because they make subtle critical remarks like 'Oh, so you're doing the corporate thing?'" Beach doesn't have time to stop and explain her reasons to everyone she passes, and resents the idea that she should. She believes criticism of investment banking applicants comes from those who consider them to be "selling out." Though she says this phrase is indefinable, she feels that it has to do with performing work one does not want to do, and sacrificing one's happiness or dream. "I wouldn't be doing this if it were 'Selling out," she said quietly.

Whether or not students entering the profession are selling out, prospective investment bankers need to be more aware of what they're getting into. On campus one finds a great deal of both breathless praise and knee-jerk criticism, but very little thoughtful and objective discussion of the job itself. As a result, seniors who drift into investment banking may find their vague expectations left unfulfilled. To all, the job offers high wages, financial literacy, and sporadic glamour. But to only some does it provide satisfaction. Others, like Phleger, want out. After two years spent grinding away in a service industry, these investment bankers feel like they're financing someone else's dream instead of pursuing their own.


Eri Kelly is a junior in Davenport.


**Title: Book Review: Beauty Made Simple**
**Author: David Keck**
**Page number(s): 30**

Art and Beauty in the Middle Ages, by Umberto Eco, translated by Hugh Bredin, Yale University Press (New Haven and London: 1986) $12.95, 146 pages.

In the preface to his Art and Beauty in the Middle Ages, Umberto Eco states that he was "rather reluctant" to allow Yale University Press to republish a piece written originally as a "single chapter of a four volume handbook on the history of aesthetics" first published 28 years ago. Standing outside the context of this larger, more comprehensive treatment of theories of beauty, this republication is too close to an encyclopedia entry to survive on its own. Although he synthesizes his diverse material brilliantly and imaginatively, Eco is never able to devote enough time to any one topic. This "chapter," seeking to become a "book" (one might suspect for the profit of the publisher or the career of the translator), represents an ambitious attempt to collate the aesthetic theories of eleven centuries, an attempt that displays its potential but never fulfills it.

Eco is known to most readers and movie-goers as the author of The Name of the Rose, a bestselling murder mystery set in a medieval monastery. Currently a professor of semiotics at the University of Bologna (and a visiting professor at Yale in 1977, 1980, and 1981), Eco composed Art and Beauty in the Middle Ages when he was only 26 years old. But even at that age he clearly seems to have had a full understanding of his subject matter. He moves freely and confidently from the theology of St. Augustine to the humanism of Erasmus, revealing fascinating transitions in medieval aesthetics. But he never fully explores them.

Precisely because Eco's knowledge is so vast, the reader expects much more than mere glimpses of significant figures and finishes the book somewhat unsatisfied. Perhaps the central problem that all writers who attempt to survey the Middle Ages (or indeed any age of history) must face is a fundamental conceptual question: was the medieval period an age unified in its thought and culture or was it a more pluralistic age filled with the diversity of ideas and values we experience in the twentieth century? To put it another way, was there a "medieval man," a characteristic figure (or composite of figures) who represents or epitomizes that particular time of history, or were the patterns of life and thought too diverse to be grasped through one typological reference point? The answer to these questions determines whether the scholar interprets the Middle Ages as a distinctive period in human history with special approaches to human existence or simply as a conceptually useful, but not unique, division in the unbroken development of human affairs.

Eco employs the term "the Medievals" throughout the book referring primarily to Scholastic theologians (and, as he reveals, art critics) but also to medieval people in general. He sees a unity in the thought of the period derived from the fundamental importance of Sacred Scripture, the inheritance from Antiquity, and Christianity. Thus, by approaching the Middle Ages from this unified perspective Eco surveys an age rich in different theories and questions from a singular point of view, sometimes passing over complexities in the history of ideas. Consequently, the great variety of arguments he himself presents seems to contradict his unified perspective.


He discusses, for example, several theories on the relationship between art and religion. The Council of Nicea in 787 rejected


When the medieval mystic turned away from earthly beauty he took refuge in the Scriptures and in the contemplative enjoyment of the inner rhythms of a soul in the state of grace. Some authorities speak of a 'Socratic' aesthetics of the Cistercians, one founded upon the contemplation of the beauty of the soul. 'Interior beauty', wrote St. Bernard, 'is more comely than external ornament, more even the pomp of kings'.7 The bodies of martyrs were repulsive to look upon after their tortures, yet they shone with a brilliant interior beauty.

The contrast between external and internal beauty was a recurrent theme in medieval thought. There was also a sense of melancholy, because of the transience of earthly beauty. Boethius is a moving example, lamenting on the very threshold of death, 'The beauty of things is fleet and swift, more fugitive than the passing of flowers in Spring . . . '• This is an aesthetic variation on the moralistic theme of ubi sunt, a constant theme in medieval culture: where are the great of yesteryear, where are the magnificent cities, the riches of the proud, the works of the mighty?

-from Art and Beauty in the Middle Ages



**A Review of Umberto Eco's *Art and Beauty in the Middle Ages***
**Author: David Keck**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Iconoclasm and allowed the use of 
sacred images. But were these artistic 
representations of Biblical figures 
subordinate to the Church's teachings, 
or could they exist independently? Eco 
lists several medieval answers to this 
question but provides no satisfactory 
analysis of the similarities and 
differences among the "Medie-
vals" 
themselves or between 
tne 
"Medievals" and people of different 
ages. Such a comparison is necessary 
in order to clarify the significance of 
the term "Medievals." Unfortunately, 
the limitations of a chapter in a 
handbook do not allow Eco the 
opportunity to engage in such critical 
synthesis. 


Indeed , 
the book, 
rich 
and 
exhaustive in its scope, suffers from a 
lack of framework. 
Divided 
into 
chapters such as the "Aesthetics of 
Proportion," the "Aesthetics of Light," 
•symbol and Allegory," and "Theories 
of Art," the work lacks a superstructure 
other than the unity provided by the 
rnedieval time period. The passages 
where Eco begins 
to bring out 
COntrasts and tensions in these diverse 
approaches to art and beauty are not 
developed as fully as they need to be in 
: order to unify the book. He hints at, 
1. but never properly draws out, the 
~ parallels he discovers between the 
l "Medievals" and important thinkers of 
:5 other periods. He begins to advance, 
-! for example, arguments about the 
; similarity between the dynamic 
~ conceptions of contemplation shared 
8 by the Romantics and the neo-Platonic 
school of St. Victor. He suggests that 
these disparate intellectual movements 
both exhibit a "sense of the inadequacy 
of earthly beauty, which provokes in 
hirn who contemplates it that sense of 
dissatisfaction which is a form of 
yearning for God." Such synthetic 
analysis is often the most exciting and 
rewarding 
aspect 
of 
any 
comprehensive survey. 


Had 
he 
included more of these, or dedicated 
more pages to these insights, the 
published volume would be a first-rate 
book and not a chapter. 


Eco seeks in his conclusion to unite 
the various themes from 
the 
preceding chapters by outlining the 
transitions from one medieval theory 
of beauty to another. From 
Pythagorean theory of numbers to the 
struggle between Scholastic universal 
order and secular independence, he 
sketches the history of aesthetics from 
the reaction against the disorder and 
chaos following the fall of Rome to the 
Renaissance. 


This fascinating 
historical survey provides some order 
to the work as a whole but cannot 
succeed in uniting the previous 100 
pages. The topical (as opposed to 
chronological) approach, which Eco 
employs throughout most of the book, 
surveys the issues too briefly to allow 
the reader to retain any sense of 
specific figures or to develop any 
synthetic capacity to connect the 
chapters. The diversity of medieval 
thought, the categorized subjects of 
inquiry, and the brief account of 
changes in theory are the general 
concepts that remain in the mind. Eco 
presents the extensive and diverse 
source material (he draws on painting, 
literature, architecture, 
theology, 
poetry, and Church councils) too 
succinctly for the individual authors 
and artists to become clear and distinct 
in the reader's understanding. 


Eco 
attempts 
to survey eleven 
centuries of thought in 120 pages, a 
project both laudable and neces-
sary -laudable because the skills and 
scholarship (which Eco clearly has) 
required to attempt the project are 
immense, 
and necessary because 
understanding any particular idea 
requires 
an understanding of its 
predecessors and descendants. 


Unfortunately, the book should have 
been at least twice as long and more 
thorough 
to al.ow Eco's scholarly 
insights to provide the kind of synthesis 
required for a short history. 


**Congratulations**
**Author: The New Journal**

Congratulations 
The New Journal is pleased to announce 
the elections of Carter Brooks as 
Publisher and James Bennet as Editor-
in-Chief, effective today. Carter joined 
the magazine in 1985 and has served as 
Photography Editor for the past year. 
James joined the magazine in 1986 and 
has served as Associate Editor this year. 
Carter and James will continue the 
leadership of graduating Publisher 
Margie Smith and Editor-in-Chief 
Melissa Turner. 


Five additional members of TNJ's 
new Executive Board will also assume 
their offices today: Business Manager 
Debra Rosier, Managing Editors Susan 
Orenstein and jennifer Sachs, Designer 
John Stella, and Production Manager 
David Brendel. Together with the 
outgoing Executive Board they are now 
planning their first issue, which will 
appear in April. We congratulate them 
and wish them the best of luck. 
The New JoumaJ/February 27, 1987 31


**Yale Alumni Fund QCF Pledge Drive**
**Author: Yale Alumni Fund**
**Page number(s): 32**

If you have not pledged to this year's QCF, you stilt have one week to do so. Please 
contact your college chairmen immediately to make your pledge this week. 


Berkeley 
Branford 
Calhoun 
Davenport 
Ezra Stiles 
Jonathan Edwards 
Morse 
Pierson 
Silliman 
Saybrook 
Trumbull 
Timothy Dwight 
Total 
Figures as of 2120187 
Participation '87 
63°/o 
42o/o 
58°/o 
39°/o 
350A> 
53°/o 
54°/o 
55°/o 
16°/o 
48°/o 
78°/o 
SOo/o 


Our goal is 15°/o participation. We still need 300 seniors 1o pledge. 
This year we are still hoping to break all previous records. Your 
participation will make our QCF the largest ever. Thanks to student 
support, the Yale Alumni Fund is continuing to raise money to insure that 
the University thriveS. The quality of Yale's future depends on you. 
JYALE ALUMNI FUND 
P.O BOX 1890, 155 WHITNEY AVENUE. NEW HAVEN, CT 06508 203-432-6076 
FOUNDED 1890 

