Publication date: 11/06
Volume 39, Issue 3

**Title: Can the University speak its mother tongue?**
**Author: Aditi Ramakrishnan**
**Page number(s): 38-39**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
A SOUTH INDIAN WIND, redolent of cinnamon, swishes through coastal palm trees and ruffles the hair of twenty-three year old Elihu Yale as he emerges from the ship's cabin. He leans upon the gunwhale and drinks in the twisted figures of coconut trees rooted in ochre sand, the narrow build of catamarans bobbing up and down among blue waves. The ship is fifty feet from the shore. Catamarans pull up alongside the hull and the crew of the East India Company voyage is rowed through the azure water. Brown boys clutching limes wade out toward the Englishmen. Elihu accepts a lime and is hoisted onto a boy's sinewy shoulders and carried ashore, where he steps down to gingerly touch the rough, hot sands of Fort St. George, India. Here, he will begin as a "writer," a lowly clerk for the East India Company.

Elihu will work zealously for the next few years. He will travel, trade, and rise to become the governor of this English settlement. But for now, he gazes ahead. A polished cobblestone path leads to the stone walls of Fort St. George. Beyond the fort lie the thatched huts that comprise part of what the English call "Black Town," where the natives live. Known as Madras, this region will become the capital of Tamil Nadu, a future state in the south of India.


A conversation between two fishermen drifts past Elihu's ears. The language they speak is nasal, rounded, and rough. Some words sound coarse and short; others fill the mouth and float into stretched-out vowels. In a few days, Elihu will learn that this language is called Tamil, and that it is spoken throughout the vast lands that hug the borders of the fort. He will never fully understand this language and will certainly never dream that it will one day be spoken on the campus of a university that will bear his name. A university he will help to fund in part with the fortune that he will reap in Tamil Nadu.

2006: Across the seas at Yale University, 334 years later, students and professors sit around a polished wooden table in a resplendent dining hall and speak the language Elihu Yale heard when he first landed in India, now taught in New Haven. At the Tamil language table, some students speak fluently, while others lean forward and try to catch the racing words of the language that Elihu Yale heard and perhaps spoke in southern India.

1672: As a writer, Elihu records the activities and trade contracts between Fort St. George and various Indian merchants. The English trade gold bullion for diamonds, sapphires, spices, and cotton. South Indian cotton is precious to the English, who trade much of it for pepper in the Spice Islands. As the years pass, Elihu rises through the ranks. He travels throughout southern India to assess where trade can be extended and where more factories should be built. During these journeys, Indian servants carry him through dense jungle on a palanquin. From his elevated perch, he sees the curving tops of temples, hills covered with medicinal herbs, and glimmering paddies of rice. He meets weavers who specialize in weaving chintz, gingham, and embroidering golden flowers. With the aid of interpreters, he bickers and negotiates with wealthy natives. Perhaps he uses Tamil phrases, or even speaks in broken bits to the various merchants, chiefs, and kings he meets on his travels.

1684: Twelve years since Elihu first felt the sands of Fort St. George, he is now the settlement's acting governor. Future accounts of Governor Yale will describe one of his first orders: "He induced natives to agree to provide 200 pairs [of cotton stockings]. Yale tried to contract them to make cotton gloves, but he was unsuccessful because [the natives] were not accustomed to making them." Governor Yale enjoys trade, but loves taxes even more. He channels much of his energy into demanding that the Indians of Madras pay annual property taxes and rents. The town leaders have lived in Madras for forty years and have never paid such taxes. They refuse, but Elihu threatens: if they do not pay, they must leave their homes. His threats escalate. The Indians riot. Elihu issues an ultimatum: If the chiefs do not "beg pardon for their crime of insurrection against the Government and promise obedience," he will destroy their houses and seize their property.