Publication date: September 2020 & October 2020
Volume: 53
Issue number: 1 & 2


**MASTHEAD:**
- Editors-In-Chief: Helena Lyng-Olsen, Candice Wang
- Executive Editor: Elena DeBre
- Managing Editor: Hailey Andrews
- Associate Editors: Jack Delaney, Alexandra Galloway, Zachary Groz, Madison Hahamy, Meera Rothman, Nicholas Ruiz-Huidobro
- Senior Editors: Beasie Goddu, Eli Mennerick, Elliot Wailoo
- Members and Directors: Emily Bazelon, Peter Cooper, Jonathan Dach, Kathrin Lassila, Eric Rutkow, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, Fred Strebeigh, Aliyya Swaby
- Advisors: Neela Banerjee, Richard Bradley, Susan Braudy, Lincoln Caplan, Jay Carney, Andy Court, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Susan Dominus, David Greenberg, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Laura Pappano, Jennifer Pitts, Julia Preston, Lauren Rawbin, David Slifka, John Swansburg, Anya Kamenetz, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Nicole Allan, Margaret Bauer, Mark Badger and Laura Heymann, Susan Braudy, Julia Calagiovanni, Elisha Cooper, Haley Cohen, Peter Cooper, Andy Court, The Elizabethan Club, Leslie Dach, David Freeman and Judith Gingold, Paul Haigney and Tracey Roberts, Bob Lamm, James Liberman, Alka Mansukhani, Benjamin Mueller, Sophia Nguyen, Valerie Nierenberg, Morris Panner, Jennifer Pitts, R. Anthony Reese, Eric Rutkow, Lainie Rutkow, Laura Saavedra and David Buckley, Anne-Marie Slaughter, Elizabeth Sledge, Caroline Smith, Gabriel Snyder, Elizabeth Steig, Aliyya Swaby, John Jeremiah Sullivan, Daphne and David Sydney, Kristian and Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Townsend Wilson, Daniel Yergin, William Yuen
- Copy Editors: Nicole Dirks, Anna Fleming, Ella Goldblum
- Creative Director: Meher Hans
- Design Editors: Brian Chang, Natasha Gaither, Rebecca Goldberg, Annli Nakayama
- Illustrators: Alice Mao, Cindy Ren, Sydney Zoehrer


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- critical angle: YALE’S MOST SECRET SOCIETY - Kapp Singer
- LOVE UNDER QUARANTINE - Serena Lin
- creative: THE ELMHURST - Kat Paton
- snapshot: THE POLITICS OF PRESERVATION - Jack Tripp
- A NEED FOR GREEN - Meg Buzbee
- personal essay: THE PALACE WITHIN - Candice Wang
- art: QUARANTINE SUMMER - Natasha Gaither
- art: SKETCHES - Ivy Fan
- endnote: TOADS IS CLOSED - Julia Hornstein
- STANDARDS - Nancy Walecki
- SALT OF THE EARTH - Zachary Groz
- FOWL PLAY -  


**Dear readers,**
We’re writing this as dried leaves fall around us; even as the pandemic increasingly causes separation, it also 
drives us outdoors. Pass by Yale on an average autumn afternoon, and though the bustling dining halls of Yale’s 
past are at a standstill, you’ll see students spreading picnic blankets in courtyards and venturing to greenspaces 
in search of foliage during this beautiful time of the year. 

In this issue, our writers follow suit and venture into the great outdoors. We embark on an actual goose chase 
in search of the deeply buried history of New Haven’s waterfowl wars, and spend a day in the fields with one 
of Connecticut’s most beloved organic farmers. We stroll through Edgewood Park and examine the powerful 
volunteer force that keeps New Haven’s parks beautiful, then move onto sidewalks to discuss the controversy 
surrounding historical building preservation. Then we finally go indoors to visit an iconic sweaty nightclub of 
months past, a secretive Yale corporation boardroom, and Yalies’ love lives during the pandemic. 

We hope you enjoy the fresh air.
Yours,
Candice and Helena


**Title: SALT OF THE EARTH**
**Author: Zachary Groz**
**Page number(s): 22**

A ninety-year-old organic farmer in Shelton, Con-
necticut returns to his roots.


**Title: FOWL PLAY**
**Author:  **
**Page number(s): 27**

A dusty history book sends the author on a wild 
goose chase. 




**Title: A severe lack of transparency shrouds the Yale corporation’s meeting minutes.**
**Author: Kapp Singer**
**Page number(s): 4-6**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
“A 
fifty-year embargo is inde-
fensible,” Victor Ashe ’67 pro-
claimed to me over the phone. You would think he 
was rehashing a debate over some obscure piece 
of legislation enacted during his tenure as U.S. 
Ambassador to Poland. But the septuagenarian was 
actually referring to rule 4.II.A of the Yale Corpo-
ration’s regulations: “Minutes of the Yale Corpora-
tion and its committees are closed for fifty years.” 

Over the course of their five annual meetings, 
the Corporation’s members—a potpourri of six-
teen corporate execs, venture capitalists, public 
officials, nonprofit directors, and academics—dis-
cuss and vote on high-level decisions regarding 
Yale’s budget, faculty leadership appointments, 
and large capital projects. Ashe is currently vying 
for a spot on the Corporation and running on a 
platform that emphasizes transparency. “I’m hop-
ing to convince my colleagues, if 
I’m elected, that they need to let the 
sun shine in,” he told me, his thick Ssouthern 
accent serving as a reminder of his past; he was the 
longest-serving mayor of Knoxville and a Tennes-
see state representative. 

To emphasize his point, Ashe offered up a joke: 
“What’s more secret than a senior society at Yale?” 
he asked me, followed by an excruciatingly awk-
ward pause. “The answer is the Yale Corporation.” 

Ashe’s campaign website outlines his stance more 
eloquently: “a more transparent and democratic 
Yale Corporation would strengthen the Univer-
sity’s decision-making ability, alumni/ae engage-
ment, and connection with all of its stakeholders, 
including students and faculty.” In both casual 
humor over the phone and prepared prose on his 
website, Ashe’s belief is clear: the Corporation’s 
50-year sealing of meeting minutes is excessive 
and a hindrance to progress. 

Ashe’s ambitions for openness will not be easily 
realized. To change Corporation bylaws, he will 
need to convince a supermajority of two-thirds 
of his colleagues to vote in favor of amending or 
overturning 4.II.A. His hurdle lies not only in the 
sheer number of trustees he’ll need to convince, 
but in the fact that the proposed changes buck the 
trend of a notoriously closed-off board composed 
of members who cherish this secrecy.

Catharine “Cappy” Bond Hill Ph.D ‘57, an 
economist, director of an education non-profit, 
and a senior trustee on the Corporation, thinks 
the fifty 50-year policy is vital. Sealing rules, she 
said, is are “a way of helping people who are on 
any board speak honestly and forthrightly and not 
worry about it entering the public domain at some 
point and coming back and haunting them.” All of 
Hill’s institutional affiliations—as a current Yale-
NUS board member, and previously as the pres-
ident at Vassar College and provost of Williams 
College—had some version of long-term minute 
sealing, between thirty 30 and fifty 50 years; this is 
a common practice at private universities. 

Before even beginning to reach out to Corpora-
tion members—a time-consuming, secretary-rid-
den process, given that Yale doesn’t list any emails 
or phone numbers for any of the trustees—I antic-
ipated Hill’s answer to my question of why Yale’s 
minutes are sealed for half a century. After a 2017 
push from students to make the Corporation’s dis-
cussions more open, Peter Salovey offered a fac-
simile of her statement, explaining in a Yale Daily 
News DN interview that “a certain level of confi-
dentiality and protection from short-term consid-
erations is necessary to allow [trustees] to do their 
work.” Ostensibly to placate student complaints at 
this time, specifically with regard to discussions 
around building renaming, the board unveiled a 
few transparency measures, such as listing meet-
ing times online and encouraging meetings with 
student groups. But many felt these changes were 
worthless and “largely cosmetic,” according to the 
News YDN. 

To 
emphasize 
the 
openness-effectiveness 
tradeoff, Hill suggested I look into how public 
boards function. “Often what happens there is 
essentially nothing,” she told me with a chuckle. 
She added that these boards gather an array of tal-
ented and committed people, and when there is 
pressure from the public record to censor oneself, 
“decisions and conversations get pushed some-
place else, which I think is really unfortunate.” 

The debate about whose voices should play a 
larger role in a board’s decision making process—
those of a small, chosen group of individuals, or 
those of the students, faculty and greater university 
community—is at the heart of the disagreement 
between Ashe and Hill.

However, the origins of Yale’s decision to seal 
meeting minutes comes from a much less ratio-
nal place. Ex-university secretary Sam Chauncey 
’57 told me that the rule’s hasty adoption, which 
came sometime between 1979 and 1982, accord-
ing to the university archivist, was based largely 
on administrators’ personal fears rather than sound 
reasoning. Chauncey explained that when he 
became university secretary in 1971 under presi-
dent Kingman Brewster, Yale Corporation records 
were publicly accessible after a shorter time of fif-
teen years post-meeting. But after A. Bartlett Gia-
matti became president in 1978, the heavy wooden 
doors of Woodbridge Hall slammed shut.

“Bart had been a beloved faculty member,” 
Chauncey said, admired by students and profes-
sors alike. But when he became president, finan-
cial troubles necessitated Giamatti cut the univer-
sity’s budget. “Many of his faculty friends turned 
on him and he became excessively sensitive… he 
had very thin skin.” 

Giamatti’s assistant, Henry Broude, had intense 
paranoia of his own. According to Chauncey, 
whose sister was Broude’s secretary, Broude would 
burn messages left on his desk at the end of the 
day and never let his own handwriting be seen. 
Chauncey surmised that Broude’s behavior aug-
mented Giamatti’s worries, eventually pushing the 
president to such an intense state of paranoia that 
he requested to be driven around campus accom-
panied by armed guards. The biggest outcome of 
this anxiety, though, was Giamatti’s decision to 
extend the fifteen-year-rule to fifty years, according 
to Chauncey. We’ll have to take his word for it—
he wrote me in an email, “I am afraid anyone I can 
think of who could comment on Bart’s paranoia is 
dead.”

“Paranoia is not a rational reason to adopt any 
policy,” Ashe said, reacting to the story about Gia-
matti, which Chauncey had recounted to him on a 
previous occasion. “What happened is all the more 
reason to change it.” Hill, on the other hand, doesn’t 
think that the motivations behind the creation of the 
fifty 50-year -seal impact the rule’s efficacy. 

In a 2006 report on openness in public university 
administration published in The Journal of Higher 
Education, the authors reiterate Hill’s claims, writ-
ing that transparency mandates, often referred to as 
sunshine laws, can cause board members to become 
“reluctant to discuss controversial issues” in the set-
ting of a full and open board, with individual conver-
sations happening instead. However, they conclude 
that, “though sometimes these laws are perceived as 
time-consuming and a hindrance to quick action, we 
detected substantial consensus in the belief that, on 
average, the benefits of mandated openness,” namely 
as increased democracy of a board and accountabil-
ity of its members “outweigh the costs.” A 2017 brief 
from the Association of Governing Boards of Univer-
sities and Colleges echoes this, conceding that open 
boards may be inefficient but “voice is to be valued 
in all democratic settings, and one could argue that 
it is especially needed in the current landscape of 
higher education.”

Maggie Thomas YSE’15, who is on the May 2021 
ballot alongside Ashe for a Corporation seat, also 
embraces the value of voice, and has championed 
transparency as an important step towards the uni-
versity’s fight against climate change. Thomas, who 
served as Elizabeth Warren’s climate policy advisor 
during the 2020 democratic primary, is running via 
the Yale Forward campaign, a joint effort with the 
Cambridge-based group Harvard Forward to elect 
climate advocates to the Ivy League juggernauts’ 
respective governing bodies.

An email from Thomas’s campaign expressed dis-
taste for the Corporation’s secrecy, writing that “the 
Yale Corporation’s 50 year embargo on its meet-
ing minutes is nothing short of shameful, and Yale 
alumni deserve better.” She specifically cites the 
Corporation’s 2014 decision to remain invested in 
fossil fuels. When a vote was held on this issue at the 
time, two Corporation members, one of whom oxy-
moronically sat on the Committee for Investor Rela-
tions, held high-profile positions in the fossil fuel 
industry, including board seats at Anadarko Petro-
leum and Exelon, two multibillion-dollar multi-bil-
lion dollar energy companies. “It will not be until 
2064 that we will learn whether Yale’s own trustees 
chose to put a finger on the scale when the outcome 
could have directly affected their personal or pro-
fessional financial interests,” wrote Thomas. The 
half-century delay is particularly frightening when 
considering the immediate and near-future effects 
of climate change from fossil fuels—  environmen-
tal experts predict twenty inches of sea level rise in 
coastal Connecticut by 2050.

A large part of Thomas’s campaign is predicated on 
accessibility within the Corporation, beyond simply 
opening minutes—she dedicates an entire section of 
her website to “Inclusive Governance,” providing a 
scrupulous thirteen-page document which explains 
the benefits of open governance and the steps 
needed to achieve it. In addition to making meet-
ing minutes more readily available to the public, she 
believes the Corporation needs to eliminate barri-
ers to entry for young alumni by reducing petition 
requirements to appear on the ballot and providing 
ample opportunities for students, faculty, and staff to 
share their perspectives with Corporation members. 
Many of these additional objectives are also reflected 
in Ashe’s platform.

But with respect to the planet, Thomas breaks 
from Ashe, who never mentioned fossil fuel divest-
ment or climate change issues in our original phone 
interview or on his campaign website. Though 
focused mainly on environmental change, Thomas 
“If the minutes are opened by the time I 
have grandkids, what does it matter what the 
Yale Corporation talked about this year? At 
that point, you might as well seal them for-
ever.”




**Title: Yale Corporation's Secrecy**
**Author: Kapp Singer**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 7
more broadly endorses “socially responsible invest-
ment guidelines” and “endowment justice” in her 
platform—a theme Ashe is hesitant to give a stark 
“yes” or “no” to, citing lack of enough information 
to make an informed call. He did tell me, though, 
that “investments should be along lines that promote 
a good return” because of the financial importance 
of the endowment to the university’s operations, and 
these investments should be “consistent with efforts 
to promote a clean environment and climate for the 
world.”


In explaining why he doesn’t prioritize divest-
ment as Thomas does, Ashe enumerated his belief 
that one can only affect so much change at a time, 
and the issue of transparency is paramount for him. 
He differentiated himself from Thomas, saying “she 
takes positions on ten or fifteen different issues… I 
don’t think any of the others can occur until we have 
transparency and a new system of electing alumni 
fellows.” Politically, the two alumni are split as well: 
Ashe is a Rrepublican, while Thomas’s work for Sen-
ator Warren places her solidly on the left.


But however each decides to push their pol-
icy goal(s), the two certainly share a strong belief 
in public accessibility and accountability—and 
they think the current rules are frankly ridiculous. 
Thomas wrote to me, “There is nothing in the scope 
of the Yale Corporation’s meetings that requires, 
or deserves, such secrecy. Even secret meetings of 
the United States House and Senate pertaining to 
sensitive topics such as national security are typi-
cally released to the public within 30 years.” Ashe 
summed things up more pithily, drawing a similar 
contrast to federal agencies: “It defies any logic. It 
makes no sense… This is not the CIA or the FBI.”


My conversation with the two Corporation hope-
fuls fired me up to scream “open up the minutes!”, 
but Hill’s rationale also rang true. I’m torn. First, 
Ashe lamented to me that the board’s secrecy dis-
courages “robust discussion,” but Hill then suggested 
that the only way to have productive and honest con-
versation is behind closed doors.


After the conclusion of my second conversation 
with Ashe, though, where I recounted to him some 
of Hill’s points, I began to be more and more con-
vinced that the secrecy is truly over- the- top. “I’ve 
served on many public boards,” Ashe said, “I don’t 
recall a time when the immediate release [of min-
utes]or being  televised has inhibited discussion.” He 
called Hill’s point that openness results in self-cen-
sorship “a very weak excuse.” And furthermore, he 
pointed out to me that at the present moment, the 
Corporation does not even release meeting agendas 
or the resolutions passed. What do either of these 
have to do with protecting the careers or personal 
lives of the group’s members?


Even if the fifty50-year rule were repealed or 
substantially reduced, Corporation meetings still 
would not be fully public. The boardroom within 
Woodbridge Hall, likely replete with glamorously 
upholstered chairs, a long wooden table, and those 
Yale-branded single-use water bottles, will remain a 
figment of students’ imaginations. Releasing meet-
ing minutes is a relatively small change in the larger 
context of wholly open meetings. Yes, the belief of 
Corporation members that the sanctity of Wood-
bridge Hall allows for ideological freedom is accu-
rate and perhaps holds some water. But the way 
Ashe and Thomas discuss the policies of secrecy—as 
outrageously excessive—feels salient. Because if the 
minutes are opened by the time I have grandkids, 
what does it matter what the Yale Corporation talked 
about this year? At that point,  you might as well seal 
them forever.


As morbid as it is, many of today’s Corporation 
members will be dead, or nearing it, in fifty 50 years. 
Perhaps decisions as grave as backing fossil fuels 
ought to come back to haunt those who made these 
calls, exactly as Hill worries they could. Because 
public pressure originates for a reason, and in the 
context of cataclysmic issues like greenhouse gas 
emissions, a very good one: our future.
- Kapp Singer is a junior in 
Grace Hopper College


---

**Title: Love Under Quarantine**
**Author: Serena Lin**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

 8
Love at Yale will find its way.
Love Under 
Quarantine
By Serena Lin
All names marked with an asterisk are pseudonyms
F
reshly ousted from campus amid a global pandemic, 
junior Anna Albright returned home for the summer 
and fell for an old friend. We were speaking over Zoom from 
our respective apartments in New Haven, both back for a 
remote, distanced semester. The grainy video quality made 
it difficult to gauge exactly how she was feeling, but she was 
willing to reflect openly about her love life—both during 
lockdown and at Yale.


In Albright’s experience, it’s difficult to create and 
maintain a relationship at Yale, and she has had little suc-
cess doing so on campus. “We have this go-getter attitude 
[with] club positions and internships, where we think that 
if we just work hard and have confidence, we’ll get what 
we want,” Albright said. “We take that approach, also, 
when it comes to our love lives. But that’s not how love 
works.” 


The relaxed environment of lockdown allowed for 
Albright to organically develop a relationship with an 
old high school friend of hers, Noah*. When they found 
themselves back at home in mid-March, away from their 
respective colleges and usual busy schedules, their rela-
tionship bloomed. They took up running together and 
spent weeks training for a half-marathon together. During 
their practice, they realized that they had developed feel-
ings for one another. But, in line with the slow-paced life 
of quarantine, Albright and Noah felt no need to rush into 
things too quickly.  


When asked about love on campus under normal cir-
cumstances, Albright said she noticed many romantic 
relationships here at Yale to be “transactional.” Students, 
she thought, tended to immediately weigh whether a new 
person would be a viable partner. This also leads students 
to leap into relationships relatively quickly.  She had 
observed a culture of seeing a romantic relationship as 
another achievement or accomplishment in “having your 
life together.” 


When Albright returned to New Haven for the fall, the 
relationship didn’t quite fit into the picture and she broke 
it off. Although she thinks fondly of Noah, it became 
stressful to maintain the same closeness that they had 
enjoyed at home. 


“I preferred to be single and fully present with my peo-
ple here [at Yale], rather than caught up with someone 
who was far away,” she told me.   


The COVID-19 pandemic has predictably disrupted 
the ebb and flow of love and dating at Yale, usually so fast-
paced and chaotic. The unexpected departure from cam-
pus and uncertainty of the future has upset even our best-
laid plans. But love is not at all put on pause; it’s found 
ways to flourish and shift in unanticipated ways. While 
distance has proved to be the breaking point for some, 
others found solace in love or reached for new, creative 
ways to forge connections. 
***
Will*, a sophomore living on campus this semester, felt 
as though the pandemic had dampened his usually care-
free approach to dating and hook-ups. He was an expres-
sive and lively speaker, even over Zoom. “I’ve always been 
a promiscuous person,” he told me. “But the rising num-
ber of [COVID-19] cases is inversely related to promis-
cuity.” 


Before the pandemic, he had been meeting people, 
mostly casually, through dating apps like Grindr. He was 
largely unrestrained by the Yale bubble in his romantic 
exploits, having dated students from colleges all over the 
Greater New Haven area. He was—and still is—keeping 
his mind open to the possibility of a romantic spark, but it 
hasn’t happened yet. 


Back on campus for the year, he described feeling a 
newfound pressure to be more cautious when meeting up 
with matches. Will expressed a desire to adhere to public 
health precautions and consider the safety of his suitem-
ates and himself. His rule is now “Yalies only,” which he 
feels is less risky given the strict on-campus social distanc-
ing guidelines and twice weekly testing. 


Will’s willingness to explore beyond Yale was rare 
among students I spoke to for this article, and he has 
mourned giving up his usually open-minded approach to 
dating. Due to the pandemic, many have avoided meet-
ing new people, a mindset which Will characterized as 
“fearing the stranger.” Although he recognizes that it is 
a necessity for public health, it’s still a difficult thing to 
come to terms with. 
At the beginning of quarantine, Kayla*, a sophomore, 
explored options to recreate a campus experience online. 
She was invited to join a Discord server—an online chat-
ting platform that allows people to create private commu-
nities, or “servers”—for another university (which Kayla 
requested go unnamed to preserve anonymity). Discord 


 9
“The COVID-19 pandemic has predictably 
disrupted the ebb and flow of love and dating 
at Yale...But love is not at all put on pause; 
it’s found ways to flourish and shift in unan-
ticipated ways.”

began largely as a platform for gamers, but has grown, 
especially during the pandemic, to host a variety of com-
munities. Within a server, it’s possible to see which users 
are online and then initiate voice or video calls, which 
allows for spontaneous interactions. “It’s the closest you 
can get to running into someone on campus,” Kayla told 
me. We were speaking over FaceTime. Home for the 
semester, Kayla had been missing Yale.


This server had around a thousand members, most of 
them students at this university, and hosted virtual events. 
Kayla participated in an online dating competition that 
mimicked the style of the popular reality television show 
The Bachelor. The titular bachelor, a student on the 
server, picked between contestants as they vied for his 
attention through a series of virtual activities. Although 
Kayla didn’t win and the competition didn’t exactly go 
according to plan (the bachelor ended up bowing out of 
the dating aspect of the contest), her involvement won her 
some suitors. 


“A lot of people on the Discord platform tended to be 
sad, lonely gamer boys,” Kayla said, half-jokingly. She 
found herself the object of their affections and realized, 
somewhat incidentally, that these boys were willing and 
eager to send her small gifts. She would casually mention 
wanting a particular video game or craving something 
from Uber Eats, and someone would offer to order it for 
her. “It’s a symbiotic relationship.” 


None of these interactions, however, led to more 
long-term relationships, or even friendships. Most of the 
boys she spoke to over Discord lived across the country, 
and she never seriously considered dating someone she 
couldn’t easily meet in person. It was also difficult to 
develop an emotional connection with someone who was 
just “another face on Zoom.” 
Kira*, a sophomore, found that the forced distance 
away from Yale proved to be just the thing she needed 
to venture into her first committed relationship. She met 
her boyfriend on Bumble shortly after coming home for 
spring break. Kira surprised herself by agreeing to get 
coffee with him, a first date that lasted for seven hours. 
They went on a second date the next day — stargazing on 
the beach — right before lockdown was enacted and they 
decided to “move the entire relationship onto Zoom.” 


Kira attributed her relationship to the pandemic. She 
admitted that if Yale hadn’t shut down, she never would 
have given someone on Bumble real consideration. And 
somewhat counterintuitively, she told me that, “During 
COVID, I was more bold on dating apps and more willing 
to meet up with people.” 


Kira explained that, deprived of the wealth of romantic 
opportunities that being on campus offered, she began to 
take dating apps more seriously, especially at the begin-
ning of the pandemic in March. Once lockdown was 
enacted, she and her now-boyfriend became exclusive. 
Kira thought that distance from campus life helped her 
“reconsider all these expectations people had for [her],” 
including the pressure to have casual sex. In her experi-
ence at Yale, she felt that boys she met often wanted to 
have sex immediately and weren’t willing to commit to 
a relationship without first getting intimate. Because of 
the pandemic, she and her boyfriend were forced to take 
things slowly, something that Kira found refreshing. She 
attributes the strong foundation of their relationship to 
the long online period, which forced them to “slow down 
and become willing to commit.” 


For the fall semester, she plans to stay in her hometown, 
where her boyfriend also lives. But when Kira returns to 
Yale in the spring, she will have to weather a bicoastal, 
long-distance relationship. 
Emma*, a sophomore, met her girlfriend on a very 
unconventional platform — Librex, an anonymous dis-
cussion forum restricted to those with an Ivy League 
email address. At the beginning of lockdown, Emma 
posted in Librex’s general Ivy League thread asking, “Are 
there any queer women on here?” She received a variety 
of responses and matched with some commenters, which 
allowed her to direct message them. 


For Emma, who is politically conservative, it’s been 
difficult to navigate the queer dating scene at Yale. She 
told me, “When I posted [on Librex], I just wanted to find 
someone to talk to about being a queer woman. I wasn’t 
looking for a relationship.” 


But one commenter stood out. When Emma first spoke 
to her now-girlfriend, they were both anonymous users on 
Librex. They connected over a shared sense of loneliness 
at Yale, stemming from uncommon political opinions and 
not fitting into the student body. They also had similar 
professional and academic interests. 


They revealed their identities to each other after a day 
of talking on the app and moved into texting. At first, the 
conversation remained largely platonic, mostly focused 
on schoolwork and career goals. There was also the con-
Design by Natasha Gaither



**Love in the Time of COVID-19**
**Author: Serena Lin**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 10
sideration of the five-year age difference between Emma 
and her girlfriend, who is a graduate student at Yale. 
Once Emma arrived in New Haven, having moved 
here for the school year, she met up with her now-girl-
friend. She was initially nervous about how their rela-
tionship would translate to being in-person and explicitly 
romantic, but Emma told me that she feels that it has only 
strengthened since meeting up.  They have been dating 
since. 


Quinn*, a junior, felt that the pan-
demic placed a newfound pressure on 
her relationship, which had already sur-
vived periods of long-distance. 
She met her boyfriend on move-in day 
her first year at Yale. It’s disputed where 
exactly they first bumped into each other 
— either at the beginning or the end of 
a tour of their residential college. They 
lived in adjoined suites, but didn’t start 
dating until the following spring. It was her first “adult 
relationship” and her first time falling in love. They went 
through their fair share of difficulties — they had been 
long distance the summer before their sophomore year 
and planned to be apart last spring because Quinn was 
studying abroad (though once the pandemic worsened 
globally, all Yale students were called back to the States). 
“The summer, bizarrely, was the happiest time in the rela-
tionship,” she said. We were speaking over Zoom, and she 
seemed wistful. “We got to be fully present because there 
aren’t a billion other things on your mind.” 
They were in the same state over the summer, so it was 
possible to see each other over weekends. It wasn’t as hard 
being long-distance during lockdown because “life was on 
pause.” They had seemingly endless amounts of time to 
devote to talking to each other.  “During a pandemic, all 
the benefits of being in a relationship are amplified — the 
convenience, the companionship, the safety of having a 
dedicated partner,” Quinn told me.  
But when it came time for the fall semester, Quinn’s 
boyfriend left the States to be at home with his family and 
Quinn came to New Haven. As life creeped back to nor-
malcy and school started back up, Quinn said, “It seemed 
as though our lives were resuming [after lockdown], but 
very much separately.” 
Somewhat unexpectedly, this was the period of long-dis-
tance that the relationship could not survive. It was dif-
ficult to conceive of a concrete future together because 
it was unclear when Quinn’s boyfriend would be able to 
return to New Haven. They struggled with the question 
of: “What does a relationship mean when you don’t know 
the next time you can see that person, and you don’t have 
a date to peg your hopes on?” 
Quinn and her boyfriend broke up during the fall 
semester, over the phone. When I spoke to Quinn, she 
was still trying to figure out how to recover from the con-
clusion of a long-term relationship during a period of 
reduced social contact.   
“It’s very strange because life is a lot quieter these days, 
so it’s a tough time to go through a loss like that,” Quinn 
told me. She added, laughing, “But maybe 
it’s also good, because otherwise I would 
have gone to Woads and done something 
stupid.” 

Despite the unprecedented nature of this 
semester, students I’ve spoken to have all 
tried to regain a sense of normalcy, whether 
it be through discovering new communities 
or forging romantic relationships.  They’ve 
embraced, wholeheartedly, the imperfect 
forms that love takes during these strange 
times. Most Yalies seem to have taken this opportunity to 
learn new lessons about themselves. Something I learned, 
personally, is that we get so caught up in relationships at 
Yale to somewhat relieve the pressure we feel to make the 
most of our time here. This is meant to be the prime of 
our lives, but we are pulled in so many directions, all the 
time, beholden to academic responsibilities, extracurric-
ular pursuits, and social endeavors. The pandemic and its 
mandated social isolation has distilled life into its essen-
tial elements, challenging us to decide what really matters 
in the end. 
I thought back to my interview with Quinn and how 
she perfectly encapsulated what many of us are feeling 
right now: “I am learning that it’s okay that there are times 
when life doesn’t feel so glowing and ecstatic, which we 
are told that every moment of college should be like.”  
-- Serena Lin is a sophomore in Branford College.



**The Elmhurst**
**Author: Kat Paton**
**Page number(s): 11**

 11
The Elmhurst 
By Kat Paton
 
Illustration by Cindy Ren
Design by Annli Nakayama
I 
live in a first-floor apartment in New Haven, Connecticut. 
Our living room looks onto Elm Street, just east of its inter-
section with Howe. This is the Elmhurst.
	
A mix of businesses and apartments surround us. 
Jane Jacobs would be proud. Our eastern neighbor is the 
Coop, which advertises on Craigslist and mandates 75% 
consensus for accepting new members. It houses at least 
one talented trombonist, an elderly man who enjoys read-
ing on the front steps, and a skinny woman with a relaxed 
smile who smokes cigarettes (my roommate and I like to 
imagine she is our elder queer icon). More non-student 
“real people” live across the street at 364. Our landlord 
owns another, nicer building at 366. Their residents, like 
us, are mostly undergraduates. I once visited 366 to kill a 
friend’s spider. It looked like the dorms I used to live in. 
West of 366 is Three Sheets, perhaps the only bar in New 
Haven that stayed open during the pandemic, courtesy 
of its outdoor patio. West of Three Sheets—Main Gar-
den, a cheap Chinese restaurant with apartments on top; 
I bought a skateboard off Facebook from one resident. 
Across from Main Garden is Alpha Delta Pizza. They stay 
open until 3 AM all week. Zach’s, a homey liquor store, is 
on the corner.
	
That’s just the microneighborhood. Further west, 
more single family homes and townhouses pepper the 
road to Stop and Shop; the road passes at least one funeral 
home and a behavioral health center. Further east, and 
the university begins to dominate. The Bank of America 
parking lot attracts skittish white kids buying weed. A 
large Episcopalian church shields us from the Broadway 
shopping district. A few fraternity houses sit across from it.
	
Only one of our front windows has a screen. I like 
to sit in the other and watch. Especially when the sun is 
overhead in the late morning, I like to slouch against the 
frame and let one leg dangle out. One time an older man 
walked up and tried to ask me out for a drink, but I am 
mostly left alone. I never feel unsafe. I like to watch the 
staff open Three Sheets. 
	
When I finish my rice or tea and biscuit, I leave the 
window. The sound remains hard to ignore. Our stretch 
of Elm Street is a two-way parade on an otherwise mostly 
one-way street: pedestrians, dirt bikes, motorcycles, what 
can only be described as electric tricycles, skateboards, 
commuting and recreational bicycles (kids do wheelies 
on the latter), obnoxious “peddle pubs,” and variously lux-
urious or decrepit cars screech or slide by at all hours of 
the day and night. One vaguely cursed-looking, washed-
out ice cream truck parks outside Alpha Delta and never 
seems to be open. It looks so clearly like a drug front that 
it probably isn’t. City officials have tried for years to pros-
ecute the dirt bikers they claim “terrorize” residents with 
reckless stunt driving. Call-in complaints have helped var-
ious sting operations. A new ordinance would increase the 
fine from $99 to $2000.
	
Last night, somebody threw purple Downy deter-
gent out an Elmhurst window. The thumping bass of a 
small but exuberant party kept other building residents up 
until one or two. A homeless, alcoholic man who often sits 
on our front steps was arrested. I haven’t seen him since. 
A Coop denizen who maintains the front garden swept 
up some glass, but a purple stain remains. It is thick and 
sticky, almost gelatinous.
-- Kat Paton is a senior in Berkeley College.



**The Politics of Preservation**
**Author: Jack Tripp**
**Page number(s): 12**

 12
The Politics 
of Preservation
Historical preservation and Yale’s continuous expansion 
can neglect voiceless, marginalized communities.
Jack Tripp
U
ntil just a few months ago, a 1948 art moderne 
bank stood at 80 Elm Street in downtown New 
Haven: a sparse stone monument to the cold simplicity 
of mid-twentieth century architecture. As the bank was 
torn down piece by piece in early 2020, the remnants 
of an Episcopal church built a century before were 
revealed and, likewise, demolished. Today, there is an 
empty lot. Plans for the construction of a Hilton Gar-
den Inn have halted due to COVID-19. 
The Yale tour groups ogling at campus buildings, 
admiring the statuaries on Harkness’ face, taking pic-
tures of the cathedral-like grandeur of Sterling—it’s a 
familiar sight for current students. But beyond Yale, the 
Elm City is perhaps even more remarkable for the his-
tory embodied in its structures and spaces. Consider that 
the sixteen  acres of the New Haven Green bordering 
Old Campus began in 1641 as a marketplace for Puri-
tan colonists. The John Cook House, on Elm Street, is 
one of the country’s oldest surviving stone structures. 
And New Haven’s Union Station was designed by the 
same architect who planned the U.S. Supreme Court 
building. Remnants of New Haven’s past linger in many 
of the buildings lining the streets of the Elm City, even 
as other aging edifices are threatened by degradation 
or new development. And tensions often arise between 
those who wish to preserve physical structures evocative 
of the past, those who make up existing communities 
that inhabit those places, and those who look to econo-
mize, modernize, and create spaces according to their 
own imaginings. 
Critics often condemn historic preservation for 
advocating unattainable and illogical standards, such 
as banning solar panels or dictating which sort of col-
umns should be allowed. In January 2020, Binyamin 
Appelbaum, a member of The New York Times edi-
torial board, wrote flatly that preservation “obstructs 
change for the better.” He was speaking specifically in 
the context of Washington, DC, but it is a sentiment 
many Americans would echo. In New Haven, although 
many of the best cases of preservation have been coop-
erative, a multiplicity of unequal voices can result in 
inequitable decision-making. There is no cohesive sys-
tem of checks and balances, no single method to ensure 
the democratization of either development or preserva-
tion, which can at times leave parties feeling ignored 
or unheard.
In New Haven alone, there are a total of twenty-seven 
historic districts. At Yale itself, however, there are rel-
atively few buildings on the National Register of His-
toric Places, the official list of buildings which require 
preservation for their historical significance. Most of 
them lie within the relatively small Hillhouse Historic 
District. Professor Alan Plattus, a scholar in the Yale 
School of Architecture, explained that the University 
has traditionally been opposed to placing more build-
ings on the register, due to the restrictions such a des-
ignation might impose. He said, “Yale is totally within 
their right” in their desire to keep their buildings off 
the register. When a building is registered or a historic 
district created, property owners have to approve the 
new designation. This is one of the challenges that an 
organization like the New Haven Preservation Trust 
(NHPT) seeks to address. A private non-profit organi-
zation dedicated to “preserving New Haven’s archi-



**Title: Yale and New Haven: A Complicated Relationship**
**Author: Jack Tripp**
**Page number(s): 13-14**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 13
tectural heritage,” the NHPT was founded in 1961 in 
opposition to Yale’s plans to demolish the historic home 
of James Dwight Dana, a significant Yale geologist, at 
34 Hillhouse Ave. The Trust was successful, and the 
house was registered in 1966. Today, it holds Yale’s 
Department of Statistics and Data Science. 

Plattus described Yale’s frequent expansion as an 
attempt to control the edge of campus—and not always 
in a manner respectful of the preferences of New Haven 
residents. As a sprawling presence in New Haven, 
Yale historically has played a complicated role when 
it comes to preservation. Plattus pointed me to Associ-
ate Professor of Urbanism Elihu Rubin and filmmaker 
Elena Oxman’s half-hour documentary, “On Broadway: 
A New Haven Streetscape,” which reported on Yale’s 
purchase and subsequent renovation of properties on 
Broadway. 

Produced when Rubin and Oxman were students at 
the School of Architecture, the circa 2000 documen-
tary has an indie feel. It features many Yale figures, 
including Plattus himself and the renowned art histo-
rian and Yale professor Vincent Scully. Between inter-
views, the film includes clips of Broadway that would 
be unrecognizable to today’s Yale students. Many store-
fronts belonged to small, multigenerational family-run 
businesses. Some of the changes are due to unavoidable 
economic trends; it seems unlikely that the typewriter 
repair store or Cutler’s Records and Tapes could possi-
bly remain afloat today. But many residents and busi-
ness owners additionally felt that Yale was marking the 
neighborhood with its own brand. 

At one point in the documentary, Joe Fahey, then 
director of operations for University Properties, 
describes Yale’s vision for Broadway, one in which chain 
stores would exist alongside and help to support busi-
nesses run by New Haveners. Seated at a conference 
table, he concludes, “That’s how Broadway’s gonna 
work.” Rubin aptly characterized Fahey’s comment as 
reflective of “the hubris of a lot of city planners”—the 
idea that such a broad swath of city can be planned and 
shaped according to a single vision. Peter Spodick of 
York Square Cinema objected to this notion in the con-
text of downtown New Haven: “All these components 
of downtown were not things that were planted, they 
evolved over hundreds of years.” The owners of Cutler 
Records and Quality Wines both described the sudden 
changes as equivalent to losing a family. Yale’s determi-
nation to homogenize and strategize with their property 
on Broadway impacted not only the business but also 
the lives of those already there. 

When working on smaller-scale development proj-
ects, Andrew MacPartland of Elm City Architects 
consciously tries to respond to both the needs of the 
area and the expectations of preservationists. A practic-
ing architect, MacPartland was hired to gain approval 
from the local historic district commission for a proj-
ect in Wooster Square. In designing a new home he, 
like Yale, left his mark on a New Haven neighborhood. 

MacPartland, however, had a personal connection to 
the Wooster Square neighborhood, where his grandfa-
ther settled after emigrating from Italy. He said that this 
link was central to enforcing a sense of responsibility 
not only to his client but also to the surrounding neigh-
borhood. He advocates for architects to be “humble 
enough [to] get a consensus of opinion”—from preser-
vation organizations but also by seeking out input from 
those in the community. That humility stands in stark 
contrast to Yale’s confidence regarding the future of 


Yale’s desire for expansion and emphasis on effi-
ciency can clash with the priorities of New Haveners. 
Susan Godshall, who has long-standing connections to 
both Yale and the city of New Haven, spoke to the com-
plexity of the problem. Godshall is a graduate of the 
School of Architecture and Yale Law School and serves 
as the treasurer of the NHPT. She has also held various 
positions in the Chamber of Commerce and the Coun-
sel’s office for the City of New Haven, and was Assistant 
Secretary of Yale for almost a decade. Godshall speaks 
in the classic vocabulary of preservationists—referring 
to the “character” of a neighborhood or the success 
of the NHPT’s date plaque initiative. Like Professor 
Plattus, she described areas of tension being especially 
“around the edges” of Yale. But Godshall also explicitly 
emphasized that “it doesn’t serve anyone to have a per-
manent adversarial relationship.” Although the NHPT 
was initially founded in opposition to a Yale project, 
it has also operated as a partner and consultant to the 
University. As MacPartland recognized with respect to 
his project in Wooster Square, collaboration is essential 
to preservation. 

In historic cities across the United States, one of 
the largest obstacles to preservation is a chronic lack 
of resources. MacPartland admitted that to design and 
construct a historic-grade building from scratch—as he 
and his client did in Wooster Square— “comes with a 
price tag.” In New Haven, where more than 25% of res-
idents live in poverty, the initial capital needed to begin 
such a project is often hard to come by. For those who 
own historic structures and lack the financial resources 
to renovate, the channels available are present but lim-
ited, as Godshall explained. Owners who complete a 
major renovation can receive tax credit from the state; 
for those looking to make modest repairs, the NHPT 
offers grants from their Historic Structures Fund. These 
grants range only from $1,000 to $4,000, however, and 
are made on a one-to-one matching basis. This means that 
whether residents are making a larger renovation or are 
looking to apply for financial support, they will need to 
start with at least some capital. 


The prevailing critique of preservation organizations 
concerns this difficulty: that it is unrealistic to expect the 
vast majority of Americans to have the financial flexibility 
and time required to make historically accurate renova-
tions. As Rubin put it, there is often a trade-off between 
the desire to “preserve the building but [a failure to] pre-
serve the people.” When practiced to the extreme, Rubin 
worries that historic preservation can “change a city into 
a museum of itself.” An extensively preserved city may 
become a static relic, prevented from evolving by the 
high-value placed on structures of the past. He cited Euro-
pean cities like Venice, which rely heavily on tourism for 
revenue. But even when preservation is more limited, he 
pointed out that gentrification is still a legitimate and 
growing concern, threatening the existing residents. Plat-
tus admitted that in many successful case studies—such as 
past preservation efforts in Providence, Rhode Island, or 
Havana, Cuba—gentrification may be inevitable. College 
Hill in Providence is now a relatively upscale neighbor-
hood near Brown University, where preservationists used 
an entrepreneurial model to put profits from successful 
renovations into additional projects in the area. Plattus 
believes this could be viable in areas of New Haven, 
where affiliates of the University may be looking for his-
toric homes. He also said, however, that it is possible, if 
at times challenging, to preserve without gentrifying. He 
pointed to Pittsburgh as a model, where he said that cer-
tain inner-city neighborhoods successfully preserved his-
torical structures while also retaining a significant portion 
of the existing population. 

Organizations like the NHPT work to protect history 
throughout cities nationwide, but Abby Roth, representa-
tive of Ward 7 on the Board of Alders, also hopes that pres-
ervation might be an endeavor supported by independent 
citizens from the ground up. Roth told me that there are 
many New Haveners who want to share their voices when 
it comes to the changes in their neighborhoods, even 
when there might not be existing channels. Roth grew up 
in Springfield, Massachusetts, and says that her passionate 
advocacy for preservation stemmed from growing up in 
historic cities in New England. As an Alder, Roth has a 
direct say in New Haven governance, but not everyone 
has this privilege. For individuals who want to participate, 
she emphasized Community Management Teams as pos-
sible channels. These public meetings consist of presen-
tations on major events in a neighborhood, information 
which is voluntarily shared by the city of New Haven, 
police, or developers. Yet Roth still worries that there’s a 
silent subset of residents who don’t, won’t, or can’t have 
a voice in these matters due to the self-selecting nature of 
these forums. 

When it comes to preservation, concerns about 
resources and representation mirror worries about who 
gets to decide how and where New Haveners live. Yale 
has the wealth and influence to rival that of the city gov-
ernment. And as Plattus commented, even the NHPT 
may be outmatched in a direct confrontation with Yale 
or other developers, which generally have more extensive 
resources. At the same time, many New Haveners may 
chafe against both Yale’s infringement on their neighbor-
hoods and a historic district commission’s regulations on 
their homes, but won’t have the means to respond. 

Historic preservation is easily simplified and reduced 
by critics. But we all know that “place” matters. The 
spaces in which we work, study, and live impact what we 
do and how we feel. The predominant risk of both preser-
vation and development is that those who actually inhabit 
these spaces are ignored. Both Rubin and Plattus clarified 
that preservation is not only about preserving histories, 
but also about perpetuating a community. Appearances 
are important, but only so far as they affect, as Godshall 
described it, the “integrity” of the area. As I understood 
it, Godshall meant physical, historical integrity. But as 
MacPartland first emphasized, that integrity is also directly 
tied to the neighborhoods in which buildings stand and 
the people who walk past them every day. As students, we 
live at Yale but also in New Haven. Plattus described how 
it often takes a catastrophic loss—such as the demolition 
of Old Penn Station in New York—to motivate meaning-
ful support for preservation. But whether by taking a long 
walk to get to know the city better, attending a Commu-
nity Management Team meeting, or directly advocating 
for the salvation of a historic Yale building, there are so 
many unexplored avenues for students to conscientiously 
engage. Even if only for four years, the Elm City is our 
home and a place which we can engage with and influ-
ence for the better, starting with the physical places that 
matter to us most. 
--Jack Tripp is a sophomore in Benjamin Franklin Col-
lege


--- Page 14 ---

 14
Design by Brian Chang


--- Page 15 ---

 15
**Title: A Need For Green**
**Author: Meg Buzbee**
**Page number(s): 15**

I
n the summer of 2019, six goats took up residence 
at Edgewood Park. They spent months munch-
ing their way through the park’s poison ivy and Japa-
nese knotweed — both invasive species. The goats 
were brought to the city in a collaboration between 
Green Goats and the Friends of Edgewood Park, a 
volunteer-led group that keeps Edgewood Park afloat. 

Friends of Edgewood Park are just one example of the 
vital role these volunteer-led organizations have taken 
on in maintaining and beautifying the parks that , 
especially in a time when New Haven’s city govern-
ment has not had the capacity to do so. 

In his proposed budget for the 2020-2021 fiscal 
year, New Haven Mayor Justin Elicker moved to 
eliminate the Department of Parks, Recreation, and 
Trees and merge its duties with the Department of 
Public Works and the Department of Youth Ser-
vices in order to make the departments more effi-
cient and prevent repetitive programs. The Board 
of Alders voted to approve the proposal on May 26. 
On July 1, the New Haven Parks Department ceased 
to exist, and two new departments, Youth Services 
and Recreation and Parks and Public Works, took 
its place. The maintenance side of parks, including 
trash pick-up and tree removal, is now handled by 
Parks and Public Works, while recreation and out-
door activities fall under Youth Services and Rec-
reation. 

As the three departments converted into two 
new ones, the budgets shifted as well. The com-
bined budget of the three departments dropped by 
$86,295 between 2019 and 2020 as they realigned 
into two. The City’s overall budget, on the other 
hand, increased by $11,349,022 between 2019 and 
2020.

The long-term effects of the merger remain 
unclear, especially because most youth programs 
were cancelled this summer due to the pandemic. 
Initiatives like the one that brought goats to Edge-
wood won’t be affected because they operate sep-
arately from the government. But still, even with 
the new and supposedly more efficient alignment, 
maintenance of the parks is no easy feat. “I know 
how hard [our maintenance staff] works to keep 
the city clean,” said William Dixon, Deputy Desk 
Director of Recreation. “Every day getting up for 
work is a challenge, figuring out who dumped what 
on a Monday morning and where the trash is at.”

Dixon has worked with the Parks Department 
for 19 years, although he now reports to the Youth 
Services Department. In this position, he runs rec-
reational programs, manages permits, and plans 
events. Day to day, he spends much of his time in 
the park. “I’m an outdoors guy,” he said. After work, 
he drives through the park, seeing who’s around. 
“I see what’s going on, I see who’s using the park.” 
A Need For Green
MEG BUZBEE
A vibrant volunteer community keeps New Haven’s 
greenspaces afloat during the pandemic.



**Title: Parks in the Time of COVID-19**
**Author: Meg Buzbee**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 16
This year, Dixon only worked from home for 
about six days. The rest of the time, even in March 
and April at the height of the COVID-19 pandemic 
in Connecticut, Dixon was in his office or in the 
parks. “No one was here anyways,” he said. “When 
the weather gets warm, people want to be in the 
parks.”


COVID-19 complicated the restructuring of the 
parks management system, as emergency manage-
ment became the city’s top priority. By the sum-
mer, however, parks had become crucial as people 
coped with isolation and spent more time outdoors. 
According to Rebecca Bombero, Deputy Chief 
Administrative Officer for the City of New Haven, 
parks had a “huge increase in usage” that began 
as early as March. The city closed Farnham Drive 
and English Drive to cars in order to accommodate 
pedestrian congestion in East Rock Park and give 
people more room to spread out. They also began 
issuing permits for people to use certain fields 
across the city. To get the permit, however, “peo-
ple need to have a COVID plan,” Dixon said. “And 
they need to stick to that plan, particularly if it’s a 
large group.”


Across the country, the pandemic has highlighted 
the need for public spaces, especially parks. The 
Project for Public Spaces, a New York-based non-
profit that consults on the design and planning of 
public spaces, has been working since the 1970s to 
make communal spaces more accessible and inno-
vative. “I’m thinking about mental health, for exam-
ple,” said Priti Patel, the nonprofit’s Senior Project 
Manager. “During this time of isolation with every-
body fearful and scared to leave their house, public 
spaces have been able to provide some sort of men-
tal escape or mental health opportunity.”


Yale students, as well, have made more use of the 
parks this school year since returning to campus. 
Yale Outdoors, which usually leads camping and 
hiking trips outside of the city, has frequented East 
and West Rock to take in sunsets and hike beneath 
the bright orange trees. 


The increase in park usage, however, coupled 
with underfunding and behavior such as littering 
and graffiti, continues to put strain on the newly 
formed Department of Parks and Public Works. 
“As with most sectors of city government, unfortu-
nately, there’s never enough resources to do every-
thing you want to do,” said Bombero. As a result, 
the city relies heavily on volunteer and private orga-
nizations, such as the Friends of Edgewood Park, 
to plant new trees, maintain gardens, and push for 
new projects. 


Edgewood Park sits between West River Memo-
rial Park to the south and West Rock to the north. 
Entering from Edgewood Avenue, a steep road 
leads down to the duck pond, where people bring 
their own boats to canoe or kayak. By the pond, 
don’t expect much company apart from the birds. A 
walkway surrounded by dense bushes leads around 
the edge and under a bridge. 


The Friends of Edgewood Park organizes many 
different programs and groups that lead efforts to 
maintain and beautify the park, including man-
aging gardens, clearing trails, and planting trees. 
Every fall, they also teach community members 
how to tap the maple trees for sap, and one mem-
ber explains how to process it. The organization 
has existed for over one hundred years and was cre-
ated originally to supplement the work of the Parks 
Department. “The Parks Department, they don’t 
have the capacity to do a lot more than to take down 
huge trees and to mow and to pick up trash twice a 
week,” said Stephanie Fitzgerald, a ten-year mem-
ber of Friends of Edgewood Park. “They can’t take 
care of gardens. So we fill in that part.”


Each end of the long and narrow park features 
ponds, playgrounds, and a skate park. A pedestrian 
path cuts through the center underneath a canopy 
of trees. Since the two ends of the park are almost 
a mile apart, however, Fitzgerald said at times they 
can feel disconnected. So the group is planting 
trees and a garden in the center with the “vision 
that people will come together … and really get to 
know one another.”


The Urban Resources Initiative (URI), a non-
profit partnered with the Yale School of the Envi-
ronment, also works closely with the City of New 
Haven to promote green areas throughout the city. 
The group began working in New Haven in 2007, 
and has since planted over 9,000 trees throughout 
the city. “There are so many different benefits of 
trees,” said Anna Pickett, Development and Out-
reach Director at the Urban Resources Initiative. 
“But no one understands the need for 
parks more than the communities they 
belong to.”


---

 17
Trees of course provide shade and reduce carbon 
dioxide in the air, but Pickett also pointed out lesser 
known benefits of trees such as filtering out soil pol-
lutants and flood reduction.


Through URI, citizens of New Haven can request 
a tree for their neighborhood. The group delivers 
and plants the tree, and the citizens are expected to 
water and maintain it. “The people who live near 
the trees are committed to caring for them,” said 
Pickett. “There’s some ownership, there’s a relation-
ship they have with their tree that helps keep them 
alive. And our survival rates are higher because of 
that.” Despite the work of the community, however, 
it’s still hard to maintain trees. URI helps to plant 
around 500 trees in the city every year, just enough 
to replace the ones lost to disease or old age. 
	

Overall, there are around 30,000 street 
trees in New Haven, and many more in the parks, 
although those have never been officially surveyed. 
The Urban Resources Initiative compiled a map 
measuring New Haven’s urban tree canopy in 2010, 
and released an updated version in 2016. Accord-
ing to the Urban Resources Initiative, the urban 
tree canopy is the “layer of leaves, branches, and 
stems of trees that cover the ground when viewed 
from above.” Unsurprisingly, West Rock and its 
surrounding area has the most tree cover of any 
neighborhood in New Haven, followed closely by 
Westville and Fair Haven Heights. 
	

The aesthetic value of trees is apparent 
— especially in the New Haven fall — but, as 
Pickett said, they’re much more than eye candy. A 
study by Austin Troy, J. Morgan Grove, and Jarlath 
O’Neil-Dunne published in 2012 linked a 10 per-
cent increase in tree canopy cover to a 12 percent 
decrease in crime in Baltimore. The research is far 
from conclusive, but the point stands — trees are 
indispensable. Parks are indispensable. With New 
Haven and the rest of the country reeling from the 
pandemic, this is when we need green space the 
most. 


Since the restructuring of the Parks Department, 
the city government appears to still be catching 
up to the change — according to the city website, 
the Department of Parks, Recreation, and Trees 
still exists. But the parks aren’t going anywhere. 
The community groups who watch over them con-
tinue to pick up trash and clear trails, even during 
the pandemic. The park rangers, with extra time 
on their hands because of cancelled programs, 
recently removed five trees from the West River, 
which runs through Edgewood Park, to clear the 
way for kayaks.


But no one understands the need for parks more 
than the communities they belong to. Volunteer 
groups, dedicated civil servants, and the goats who 
munch on knotweed are looking out for the New 
Haven. Amidst future budget turmoil and an ongo-
ing pandemic, the parks will have many people in 
their corner. 
-- Meg Buzbee is a first-year in Pierson College



**Title: The Palace Within**
**Author: Candice Wang**
**Page number(s): 18**

 18
The Palace Within
By Candice Wang
Before 
I learned the word 
uterus, I knew all about 
the baby palace. That’s what my 
mama called it, placing her palms 
over the soft lower region of her stomach. 
I’d stare down at my naked abdomen and 
wonder—how could there be a whole palace 
built within me? Was I that cavernous?
To me, the uterus wasn’t a mass of delicate tissue, 
arching fallopian tubes, and pulsing blood vessels. It 
was a glittering hall carved directly into the skeleton of my 
body—something akin to the Hall of Mirrors in Versailles, 
with gothic arches galore. All built into me. It’s fragile, my 
mama would repeat to me, again and again, throughout my 
childhood. It’s something precious, something to be culti-
vated and held gently between my fingers. Once it’s gone, 
it’s gone forever.
Years later, when I was eleven, my snarky-mouthed 
health education teacher slapped two freshly photocopied 
diagrams on my desk. The Male Reproductive System. 
The Female Reproductive System. There it was, that pal-
ace from my dreams, reduced to hazy lines and arrows and 
the bitter scent of ink. According to my teacher, the female 
reproductive system was like a machine. Each month, 
she said, the uterus discarded its lining, which had been 
thickening in preparation for a fertilized egg—resulting in 
the flow of menstrual blood and tissue out of the cervix. 
I stared, confused, at the diagram, realizing that I didn’t 
know how to fill it in. Was that the cervix? 
As I used my favorite purple mechanical pencil to fill in 
the diagram, my friend leaned over to whisper in my ear, 
“I got it. Two months ago.” She drew a dot on my paper—a 
period. I gaped at her, in absolute awe. “But I hate it so 



**Title: Menstruation, Mama, and the Baby Palace**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 19-20**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 19
much,” she divulged with a sigh. “The first time I had 
it, I couldn’t get out of bed. It hurt that much.” 

Over a lunch of dumplings (mine), and chocolate 
milk (hers) in the cafeteria, she told me horror stories. 
She had worn white pants to school and heard snicker-
ing behind her in the hall before she realized her fatal 
mistake. Over the summer, she had snuck her bloodied 
bedsheets into the washer before her little brothers saw. 
She whispered the secrets of supposed womanhood to 
me—how much chocolate she’d eaten the night before, 
how much Advil she’d downed, and her first time trying 
out a tampon. My eyes grew wide with each parcel of 
new information I tucked into my pocket, until men-
struation morphed into a bloody monster, out to ravage 
my innards and turn me into a mass of vessels and flesh 
and pain. 

At home, my mama kept repeating the phrase to me. 
Baby palace. I stared at the small collection of pads we 
kept under the sink for my sister—overnight, winged, 
extra-long, daily, liners, tampons—like a buffet of cot-
ton and plastic and adhesive. It was coming for me, I 
thought. Watch out.

When it finally came, one day before the start of 
eighth grade, I was shocked at how anticlimactic it all 
was. I simply grabbed a pad from under the sink and 
went about my day as usual. But I knew it wouldn’t 
always be as simple as that. Decades, maybe even cen-
turies, of knowledge that my mama’s mama had passed 
onto her—an unbroken chain of wisdom—had now 
fallen onto me. 

My mama grew up in a stone-floored house in Tai-
chung, Taiwan with a blood-red-tiled bathroom that 
overlooked humid rice fields. As a child, she used 
to perch on a chair near the kitchen and watch her 
mama cook—congee, soy sauce marinated roasted 
tofu, tea-boiled eggs, and braised tofu skin, her favor-
ites. While inhaling the smells of her mama’s cooking, 
she absorbed everything she needed to know about the 
body beneath her fingertips—its simultaneous egg-
shell fragility and frightening resilience. All this, with-
out uttering a single scientific term. When her stom-
ach ached, her mama would massage the soft webby 
flesh between her thumb and index finger to relieve 
the pain, and bring her a cup of steaming ginger tea. 
When she succumbed to nausea and sweats from heat 
stroke, her mama would scrape a porcelain spoon down 
the back of her neck to release the boiling heat within 
her body. After showering, she religiously dried her 
short bobbed hair each night—wet hair invited in cold 
winds, or qi, the enemy personified when it comes to 
the baby palace. Every part of the body could be beau-
tified and cared for in some way—whether it was taking 
spoonfuls of sesame oil to make her boobs bigger or eat-
ing cold foods like grapefruit to cure breakouts. That 
way, my mama’s mama continued to care for her, even 
after she passed away when my mama was seventeen. 

To her, this wasn’t just Traditional Chinese Medi-
cine, or, in the colder, impersonal terms that American 
scholars use, TCM. This was just her way of balancing 
along with the precarity of being alive—of catering to 
both sides of nature, one fiery, hot, and flashy, and the 
other, cucumber-cold. Of holding hands with your own 
qi, or life spirit, instead of scolding it, rejecting it. Of 
living and breathing her mama’s memory.

Twenty-five years later, in a lavender-walled kitchen 
in Connecticut, my mama told me, aged eight, about 
the imbalance I harbored within me. Each winter, I’d 
fall victim to long, unquenchable bouts of asthma-in-
duced sinus infections—months of wet coughs and 
shortness of breath that forced me to carry around 
tissue boxes in my backpack, much to the delight of 
my friends. But, at the same time, I’d break out in 
hot flashes and flush easily, or get rashes on my skin. 
They’re both such strong forces within you, she said. 
The hot and cold qi. You’re just like your dad. We need 
to find a way to balance these within you, or you’ll 
always be like this.

So when my period made its appearance several 
years later, my mama brewed up a strong-smelling, 
maroon-hued herbal chicken soup, and watched care-
fully as I drank an entire bowlful. I might’ve pretended 
to make a face at the taste, but I secretly loved it—the 
woody bitterness of it, the impossibly dark hue. After I 
finished every drop of that broth, she introduced me to 
what I then saw as yellow-tape restrictions.


No jumping into bed or leaving the house with wet 
hair. No raw vegetables and fruits, specifically cucum-
bers, mung beans, oranges, and watermelons—save 
them for five days later. Green tea and ice cream are 
big no-nos. Lifting heavy objects, and heavy labor in 
general, should also be avoided at all costs. 

I stumbled upon each of these transgressions during 
my thirteenth year. One autumn night, I showered late, 
around ten o’clock. I crept into my room, trying to slip 
directly into my warm bed, my hair still dripping. But 
my mama was there, next to me, ushering me into the 
bathroom, where she blasted the hair dryer on full heat 
over my head for a full fifteen minutes. When I whined 
with exhaustion, she turned off the blow dryer and 
looked me directly in the eye with the badassery only 
mothers have. “You’ll regret it if you go to bed with wet 
hair.” After my cross country meet, I ran to the sink, 
parched and overheated, to inhale a glassful of cold 
water, which my mama promptly replaced with steam-
ing hot water straight from the kettle. I set the hot water 
down on the counter, claiming I’d rather die of thirst 
than drink something hot right now. On one of the hot-
test days of July, my best friend and I brought chocolate 
froyo from Costco, and I took one nervous bite of it. 
As a syrupy chocolate mouthful melted on my tongue, 
I felt an instinctual psychosomatic ache in my lower 
stomach, as if I’d committed a tiny rebellion against 
myself. I imagined my baby palace within me shrink-
ing, cracks forming in its magnificent pillars. Shudder-
ing, I handed the sticky container to my friend, who 
happily finished off the rest. 

The public enemies I listed above supposedly chip 
and wear away at the baby palace, just like acid rain on 
the sculpted marble face of a statue. The consequences 
involve irregular cycles, aching cramps, nausea, or 
even the eventual disappearance of your period—all 
foreboding, telltale signs that your qi is now working 
against you. 

One January morning of my junior year of high 
school, I walked to school with my friend in fifteen-de-
gree weather. The saliva froze on my tongue each time 
I opened my mouth to laugh. My friend’s dark curly 
brown hair was dripping wet from the shower, and 
froze to a crunch by the time we entered our school’s 
parking lot. Between my fingertips, the curls had solid-
ified. Before I could stop myself, I told her that she 
shouldn’t go out with wet hair. It’ll make your period 
cramps worse, I said. She looked at me straight in the 
eye with a hint of defiance and said, “Well, do you have 
scientific proof?”

We parted ways a little frostily that morning. 

A few years later, as a third-year student at Yale, I flit-
ted from one corner of campus to another in my over-
sized, secondhand beige jacket, warming my hands in 
my pockets. I felt myself mired in a freedom almost too 
loose to be true—like a pair of baggy tights that sagged 
in all the wrong places. In the dining hall, I could grab 
myself an entire plate of sliced raw cucumbers any 
time I wanted. I could even pour myself a brimming 
ice cold coke, and finish off my exceedingly cold meal 
with some ice cream. I could wash my hair at 2 a.m. 
and jump straight into bed after an exhausting night 
of pretending to listen to a boy rant passionately about 
his physics research. I could enjoy a cup of matcha tea 
in between my two seminars alone in my room, watch-
ing the steam rise, in this peaceful, tea-leaf-scented 
moment of rebellion. 

College, for many, is synonymous with freedom. 
Breaking free. But for me, I drew my own practice of 
my mama’s and her mama’s beliefs like a quilted throw 
blanket around me—a refuge from the chilling open 
air of being one small girl with a soft, low voice in an 
enormous college campus filled with go-getters and big 
talkers. 

The more I dried my hair after late-night showers, the 
more I drank hot cups of steaming water in the dining 
hall (I’ve survived endless strange looks from friends 
and strangers), the more I avoided the salad bar during 
my time of month, the more I danced the complicated 
dance with my own qi, the more my body thanked me. 
The more my mind and heart thanked me. 

For the first time in my life, I felt a warmth within 
me rising—a new strength, a new kick in my stride as 
I bounded down the stairs of Berkeley College North 
Court in my new white Fila sneakers. It’s hard to pin-
point exactly what made me feel suddenly so spirited, 
so healthy, so joyous. Was it the generations of knowl-
edge not just falling upon me, but also enveloping me? 
Taking me in? Or was it the warm, callused hand of 
the grandmother I’ve never met suddenly holding onto 
mine?
—Candice Wang is a senior in Berkeley College and Edi-
tor-in-Chief of The New Journal.
“Was it the generations of knowledge not 
just falling upon me, but also enveloping 
me?”


**Title: Quarantine Summer**
**Author: Natasha Gaither**
**Page number(s): 21**

 21
Quarantine Summer by Natasha Gaither
Celia (top), Twilight (bottom)
—design by Natasha Gaither



**Title: SALT of the EARTH**
**Author: NANCY WALECKI**
**Page number(s): 23-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
“Birds get drunk on blueberries,” Guy Beardsley says. 
We’re idling on his John Deere Gator next to a row 
of scarlet-colored blueberry bushes. It’s a warm Octo-
ber morning in 2019, humid enough that dew still clings 
to the blueberry leaves in spite of the heat. The image of 
drunken birds makes me laugh, but Guy’s matter-of-fact. 
“We cover the blueberries up with bird netting, because 
otherwise the birds really do become inebriated,” he says, 
cornflower eyes peering at me over his glasses. His voice is 
gravelly and warm, like a 1920s radio announcer coming in 
through the static.

If anyone knows about blueberries and birds, it’s Guy 
Beardsley, who has been an organic farmer in Shelton, 
Connecticut, for almost thirty years. He can tell you 
why white clover is superior to pink clover (it puts nitro-
gen back into the soil and the bees love it), why corn 
silk is vital to an ear of corn (it pollinates each kernel), 
and why cows shouldn’t eat too many apples (like birds, 
the sugar overwhelms their fiber-inclined systems and 
they get drunk).

Guy is the only 90-year-old I’d bet could beat me in 
an arm-wrestling match, mostly because he still splits 
his own firewood in the winter. He can also tell you 
exactly what the planting season weather was like two 
years ago. The only sign he’s in his nineties are his tur-
nip-shaped knuckles, swollen from years of weeding. He 
has wrinkles that only a kind person could have—crin-
kles around his eyes from smiling and forehead ridges 
from raising his eyebrows when he tells the best part of 
a story.

He’s so kind that he didn’t even question a stranger 
like me calling last fall to ask if he would spend three 
months teaching her about farming. My grandfather 
was a rancher in northern Nevada, so I knew about 
working with animals, but I didn’t know the first thing 
about working with soil. I wanted to learn. He agreed to 
help me without skipping a beat. “So when ya coming 
by?” he asked.

*


Twelve miles west of New Haven, the signs along 
Route 34 become handmade. By the time you pass 
Maltby Lakes, glossy billboards for personal injury attor-
neys surrender to hand-painted ads for milk and hay. 
The space between houses begins to widen so that by 
the time you reach the town of Shelton, the trees appear 
to outnumber the people. Brick smokestacks along the 
Housatonic River add an early industrial grit to what 
otherwise would be another quaint Connecticut town. 
In the late nineteenth and early twentieth century, 
Shelton’s factories made everything from razor strops 
to bicycle forgings. These days, the main relic of the 
town’s industrial past is the WIFFLE ball headquarters 
on the edge of town.

Guy’s Eco-Garden (or “the farm” as the family calls 
it) is technically located in White Hills, four miles north 
of the former industrial hub. This is the most rural part 
of Shelton, where rabbits aren’t afraid of people and 
poison ivy climbs the trunks of fall-colored trees.

Sometime between its construction in 1749 and 
now, Guy’s house learned to relax. Its right angles 
have softened with age. In the summer, the boards 
swell up with humidity, but come November, they 
contract in the dry winter air. This back and forth has 
left the farmhouse with a charming, slightly bloated 
silhouette. Guy grew up here, and so did his father 
and grandfather. His great-grandfather, a man “as 
wide as he was tall,” bought the property in 1849.

Guy’s main patch of land is the four-acre lot 
around his farmhouse. It hosts: a bakery, a vineyard, a 
lavender patch, thirteen turkeys, a tractor-sized com-
post pile, Brussels sprouts (“The English eat them 
for breakfast, but that’s sort of a stretch,” Guy says), 
blackberries, elderberries, okra, five types of kale, a 
hoop-house, a greenhouse, a drying house for the gar-
lic, a sign marking the “Chapel of Saint James of the 
White Hills” that his son-in-law planned (but never 
managed) to build, a fleet of barking Chihuahuas that 
surround visitors like angry flagella, and a fridge con-
taining exclusively clams.

To one of the barn swallows flying overhead, Guy’s 
farm probably looks like nothing more than a green 
blip between his brother’s brown cider mill and red 
apple orchard. The farm is bordered at the front by 
Route 110, and in the back, by a row of McMansions 
with family names embossed on their stone veneer 
siding in Edwardian Script. All of it—Route 110, the 
McMansions, even the apple orchards—was hayfields 
for most of Guy’s life.

Guy was born five miles away from the farm at Grif-
fin Hospital in October of 1930. He was a child of the 
Depression, when the farm’s philosophy was “use it 
up, wear it out, make it do, or do without.” Socks were 
darned, holes were patched, and nothing was wasted. 
Guy still can’t bring himself to waste much now. He 
won’t even compost scapes, the bright green, spaghet-
ti-shaped shoots that grow out of the tops of his garlic 
plants. He grinds them into garlic scape pesto instead.

Guy grew up in a pre-automated world, when 
horses, not tractors, drew plows and Model T pick-ups 
had hand cranks. He went to a one-room schoolhouse 
down the road, but he wasn’t assigned homework 
until high school. His teacher knew that farm kids were 
too busy—by age seven Guy was raking behind the hay 
cart, and by age ten, he was milking, weeding, hoeing, 
fixing roofs, fixing fences, and feeding cows. He started 
his days at nautical dawn, when it was still dark enough 
to see the stars, but light enough to make out the hori-
zon. The world was windless and blue, the earth still 
cold from the night before. Guy began his days silently 
like this, walking from the farmhouse to the barn and 
milking the cows before the world was awake. 

He went to Norwich University, a military college in 
Vermont, as World War II came to a close. “It was more 
than just ROTC. We had tanks,” he informed me. Guy’s 
military uncle was the one who inspired him to join 
the service. He taught Guy to shoot in the aptly named 
“Shooting Lot,” which is now an apple orchard belong-
ing to Guy’s brother. Walking through the field today, 
you can still find shell casings as big as your thumbs.

Guy was home from college the first time his father 
used DDT. The senior Mr. Beardsley composted before 
it was trendy and avoided using pesticides outside of 
his orchard. But in 1950, everyone was talking about 
the magical compound that WWII soldiers sprinkled in 
their sleeping bags to ward off pests. The other farmers 
in White Hills raved that DDT kept their crops clear 
of pests and weeds. Curious what the fuss was about, 
Mr. Beardsley and Guy waded through his three acres 
of corn with a 2 ½ gallon-sized sprayer full of the chem-
ical. When he and Guy returned to the field ten days 
later, the corn was free of weeds, but Mr. Beardsley 
was convinced there was something unnatural about it. 
Twelve years before Rachel Carson would confirm it in 
her seminal book, Silent Spring, Mr. Beardsley knew 
DDT was bad news. “If it’s doing this to the weeds,” he 
said to Guy, “what’s it doing to us?” That was the first 
and last time DDT touched Beardsley land.

Guy graduated from Norwich two years later and 
entered the Army as a Second Lieutenant. Over the 
next 28 years, his assignments took him everywhere 
from Italy to Korea to Vietnam to Texas.

He headed a tank unit in the Korean War and served 
as a pilot and Air Cavalry troop commander in Vietnam. 
By the time Guy left the service, he was a Lieutenant 
Colonel, a husband, and a father. He and his wife, Pat, 
moved 27 times throughout his military career, but they 
spent most of their time in Killeen, Texas, the sleepy, 
dusty town next to Fort Hood. They decided to move 
back to Connecticut after a particularly tumultuous two 
years during which Pat was diagnosed with cancer, her 
mother died, and both of Guy’s parents passed away. By 
1984, Killeen felt too far from home.

Guy had no intention to farm even after they moved 



**Title:  Untitled**
**Author: Nancy Walecki**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 25
“If [DDT] is doing this to the weeds, what’s it doing to us?”
back to the Shelton farmhouse. It was just nice to be 
back with the maple trees he tapped for syrup as a child 
and the fence that Winner the Bull once broke through 
in pursuit of a man in a red coup. However, in 1987, 
after quitting his manager job at the nearby Petrol Plus 
to help Pat with her new antique business, Guy started 
planting vegetables in his spare time. With Pat under-
going chemotherapy, Guy wanted everything he grew to 
be completely safe and natural for her to eat. In 1988, 
together they started an organic farm. 

Organic farmers preserve the essentials. Unlike auto-
mated, pesticide-laden conventional farming, organic 
farming keeps it simple. Farmers focus on the ultimate 
fundamental: soil. Building off the premise that the 
earth is a closed system, organic farmers return every-
thing they take from the earth. If Guy plants a vegetable 
like Brussels sprouts that take nitrogen from the soil, the 
next year he’ll plant something like clover to replenish 
the spot with nitrogen. Organic farmers don’t take short-
cuts, even though it would be easier just to spray some 
pesticides and chemical fertilizers and call it a day. In 
the long run however, their steady principles don’t let 
them down.

Take the story of the diamondback moth, for instance. 
With wings closed, it resembles a brown, curled-up leaf, or 
a Praying Mantis’s friendlier cousin. But as larvae, they’re 
disturbingly wriggly caterpillars, gorging themselves on 
the undersides of leaves. Diamondback moths (DBMs for 
short) target cruciferous crops like kale or cabbage, suck-
ing the juice from their leaves until they resemble a frosted 
windowpane. DBMs don’t contaminate the produce, but 
in an age of Grapples (grape-flavored apples) and rectan-
gular watermelons, when appearances are paramount, any 
cosmetic damage could render a vegetable unsellable.

If Guy was a conventional farmer, he could extermi-
nate the diamondback moth with an insecticide like 
Lannat LV or Voliam Xpress, but that might also kill the 
farm’s pollinators and contaminate the groundwater. 
This would throw off the entire soil-produce-compost 


 26
cycle that a healthy ecosystem needs, and even then, 
the diamondback moths might not be gone. DBMs have 
been outsmarting farmers and chemists since at least 
1953, when they became the first insects to develop a 
resistance to DDT. Since then, DBMs have become 
resistant to over 95 insecticides, which is pretty much 
all of them. A short-term solution like pesticides can’t 
solve a long-term problem like pesticide-resistant pests.

Guy goes back to the basics to combat DBMs. 
Healthy plants better withstand pests, and for that, they 
need good soil. A steady method like crop rotation is the 
surest path to lasting pest prevention. By changing the 
crops and locations he plants every year, he alternates 
the nutrients removed from the soil, and bewilders the 
pests who wait for last year’s crop in last year’s field. Ask 
a conventional farmer about his DBM problem and he 
might mention a new pesticide he’s trying, but more 
often than not, he’ll tell you about crop rotation, a tech-
nique that farmers have been using for millenia. Even 
conventional growers have learned to value simple, 
organic solutions.

Farmers tormented by DBMs haven’t been the only 
ones turning to organic methods. Around the same time 
Guy was flying fixed-wing Otters over Vietnam in the 
1960s, a group of young anti-war protestors was learn-
ing to farm in the northeast. Scared straight by Rachel 
Carson’s Silent Spring and inspired by the early envi-
ronmental movement, they started the Northeast 
Organic Farming Association (NOFA), hoping to bring 
about a collective return to the soil. Most of NOFA’s 
early members were academics, not farmers. NOFA’s 
founder, Samuel Kaymen, grew up assuming that food 
was assembled in the back of the grocery store. He and 
his wife Louisa left mainstream society in 1964 to start 
a self-sufficient farm in upstate New York. However, 
he quickly realized that library books about farming 
weren’t going to cut it: Samuel, and others like him, 
needed practical experience and help. He founded 
NOFA to fill their knowledge gaps. The association des-
ignated farms as “Certified Organic,” but most impor-
tantly, it was a way for northeastern farmers to educate 
one another. 

Bill Duesing, a Yale graduate and organic activist, 
was among the shaggy-haired farmers gathered in a 
Vermont field for NOFA’s first meeting in 1971. It was 
an informal affair—to an outside observer, the meeting 
probably looked like nothing more than a bunch of 
“sixties kids” (as Guy calls them) crouching in weeds. 
Despite NOFA’s humble beginnings, state chapters 
quickly sprang up around the northeast, and in 1982, 
“What God created there are the life forces. Life forces. Very important.”


 27
Bill decided to start a NOFA group in Connecticut. Guy 
and Pat met Bill a few years later, and Guy joined the 
NOFA board as its most unlikely member. He’d fought 
in the war they’d protested. Their dramatic return to the 
soil was just an adoption of the methods that his fam-
ily had used for generations. Despite their differences, 
Guy, Pat, Bill, and Bill’s wife, Suzanne, worked together 
to establish about a dozen farmer’s markets throughout 
Connecticut. Guy’s dedication hasn’t gone unnoticed: 
even now, the Monroe Farmers Market throws him a 
birthday party every year.

“Not much red this year,” Guy said last October, ges-
turing at the thicket of trees across the street from his 
potato field. We’d parked the Gator and were checking 
to see  if there were any more potatoes to dig up before 
November’s garlic planting season. I hadn’t noticed it 
before, but he was right. The fall trees were only orange 
and yellow around here. Guy told me that this had to 
do with rainfall. If the fall weather is too moist, the 
leaves won’t turn red. I’d never wondered why the trees 
changed the colors they did before. I’m from Southern 
California, where the only season is spring.

Guy sees no need to beat around the bush when it 
comes to the cycle of life. Last October, he took me 
to the tree where they defeather the freshly killed 
Thanksgiving turkeys. He pointed out the practical fea-
tures of the tree that made it perfect for “processing”: 
it had low-hanging branches and was far enough away 
that the turkeys still alive in the enclosure couldn’t see 
their fallen comrades. Once, at his brother’s farm shop 
toward the end of November, Guy discussed the turkey 
slaughtering process—in great detail—with his brother 
behind the counter. The Thanksgiving shoppers were 
scandalized. His friend Becky reminded him that he 
should refer to the process in public as “preparing the 
turkeys for their big day,” but he thought those euphe-
misms were ridiculous. Turkeys are raised as farm ani-
mals—harvesting them is just another part of the fall 
season.

Guy gets almost as excited talking about last year’s 
rainfall as he does telling stories about the times that 
God has saved his life. Guy loves God. He particularly 
loves stories in which God plays a starring role. “I’m tell-
ing you, God was in complete control of that situation! 
Complete control!” he said, concluding a story about 
the time when, mid-flight in Vietnam, an unpinned gre-
nade miraculously failed to detonate. His mother was 
a devout Christian and brought him up in the church. 
Some people have a “born again” moment, but Guy 
never did. “I always figured that God was part of my life, 
and God has really done a tremendous amount of work 
with me in keeping me alive,” he said. “He brought me 
through twenty-eight years in the Army.”

God and the cosmos have a place in the day-to-day of 
Guy’s farm. He operates his planting season according 
to the Stella Natura biodynamic calendar hanging from 
a clipboard in the hoop-house. It’s an updated version of 
an astrological planting system first used by the ancient 
Egyptians on their farms in the Nile Delta. Using the 
movements of the planets and stars as a guide, the cal-
endar can tell you the right time to plant or transplant 
every category of produce (root, flower, fruit, and leaf). 
Guy loves that the Stella Natura connects his farm to 
a divine astrological system. “What God created there 
are the life forces. Life forces,” he repeated. “Very 
important.” For Guy, everything is part of a beautifully 
orchestrated natural system. We watched the pollinators 
work their magic on the squash one day. “All kinds of 
creatures can pollinate it,” Guy said, pointing to the 
beetles and bees crawling inside a squash flower’s ova. 
“Some creatures like to even sleep in them,” he said. I 
laughed and asked if the plants minded the intrusion. 
“No, they’re okay. They’re just doing their part,” he said. 
“They’re doing good, they’re doing good.”

As he nears ninety-one, Guy has slowed his pace, but 
not by much. He received a lifetime achievement award 
from the Connecticut chapter of NOFA this spring, and 
his Eco-Garden remains a top destination for quality 
seedlings and specialty products like lavender and black 
garlic. Twice a month, Guy co-hosts “The Organic 
Farm Stand,” a radio show on WPKN 89.5 FM. On 
the first and third Thursday every month, rain or shine, 
Guy’s on the air, providing listeners from Connecticut 
to Rhode Island with farm updates and organic growing 
tips. Even after hip surgery last year, Guy called into the 
show from his sickbed. 

Soon, it will be mid-November. If this year is the 
same as the last, Guy will spend most of his days on 
the tractor, harrowing the fields in preparation for gar-
lic planting. Later in the month, when it’s so cold his 
fingers go numb, he’ll be in the fields with his friends 
and farmhands, placing garlic bulbs in the soil. In April, 
the scapes will break through the ground, reaching up 
for spring sunlight; Guy will snap them off and grind 
them into pesto. And come July, when the barn swal-
lows begin their southward migration, Guy will harvest 
the garlic and bring it to market.
-- Nancy Walecki is a 
senior in Grace Hopper College



**FOWL PLAY**
**Author: Zachary Groz**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Along the main drag in East Haven, Connecticut, five 
miles out of range of Harkness Tower’s carillon, is 
what may be the largest American flag known to man, its 
wingspan so officious that, looking at it from below, you 
might easily take it for the sky itself. Further down the road 
is a sign for the local Hobby Lobby and directly above it 
another that says, “Big Lots,” the ‘L’ rubbed away by rain, 
likely the work of a hurricane with a keen eye for satire, if 
not subtlety. And further still, where small town turns to 
tree cover, is a yard sign with the words: “Saint Augustine: 
Next Left.” This does seem like a place where you might 
come to confess––something dark or something lovely, 
really anything at all––with the woods as your witness. 
I wasn’t here to confess but to find what I thought 
were the grounds of an ignominious and odd battle in 
the region’s colonial history. In early August, while look-
ing for ten-dollar Loeb Classical editions at Whitlock’s 
Book Barn, a farmhouse turned used bookstore in Beth-
any, CT, I came across a local history with a title too 
muscular to miss: The Republic of New Haven: A His-
tory of Municipal Evolution by Charles Herbert Lever-more. The book looked ancient and I opened it slowly. 
Having skimmed the table of contents, I flipped to a 
section titled “The Quarrel with East Haven,” expecting 
a kind of civil war in miniature. What I found instead 
was a petty town squabble involving the Governor of the 
Connecticut Colony and a gaggle of geese. At the turn 
of the 18th century, somewhere in the Puritan wilder-
ness, the Governor of Connecticut was unleashing an 
Antietam on the local waterfowl.


The people of East Haven indulged their geese, let-
ting them waddle through town like princelings on 
the grounds of an Old Regime château. No farm was 
spared––not even Governor Gurdon Saltonstall’s. The 
Governor, “vexed with this invasion of his rights,” 
according to Levermore, “proclaimed a defensive war, 
attacked and routed the feathered army, making a great 
slaughter among them.”   


In the next election, not a single vote was cast for 
Governor Saltonstall in East Haven. In retaliation, 
Saltonstall revoked the town’s newly won independence 
and it was resorbed into New Haven proper.   


The story ended there, and I found nothing more 
when I researched the skirmish online. I began to sus-
pect it was all apocryphal, nothing more than a libel 
or a legend gone stale. So, to settle the issue, I steeled 
myself to cold call the patrician scions of the Salton-
stall family and contacted the estate, now a “super pre-
mium” olive oil purveyor in Petaluma, CA. The voice 
that answered the phone didn’t ring with the haughty 
timbre of old Atlantic merchants, but was gentle and 
sweet-toned. The conversation ranged over a thousand 
years of family lore, meandering with the contour of a 
gooseneck river––yet no mention of the geese or their 
massacre. 


The last chance at clarity was in the colonial records. 
They told a bloodless story. What I had thought was 
a madman’s little civil war was only the Governor of 
Connecticut madly scattering geese from his lawn. No 
matter how often he tried to eject them from the grass, 
the geese returned. 


I paid a visit to the burned-out foundation of Gov-
ernor Saltonstall’s farm on the east edge of Furnace 
Lake in East Haven. Perhaps centuries ago Old Light 
preachers howled jeremiads there and Paul Bunyan 
types felled trees. But that day the leaves were crimson 
and it was peaceful.   


The following week, I was reading The New York 
Times online when I noticed a new species of adver-
tisement pop up at the top of the page: goose control. 
My weeks of digging through internet archives for the 
faintest honk of the geese of East Haven had led Google 
to suspect I had a problem and inferred I needed a prod 
to handle it. Another week went by and the ads didn’t 
stop. Soon I was inundated with them––a gaggle nesting 
on my digital lawn. 


I couldn’t help myself. I clicked on one, an ad for 
Geese Peace, Inc., one of many companies that service 
the New Haven area. The company promised to address 
the goose problem “humanely and without contro-
versy,” elaborating with words grave enough to begin a 
manifesto: “Canada geese and other wildlife live within 
or at the fringe of our landscapes and communities plac-
ing them in conflict with us.” The campaign the Gover-
nor had taken up centuries earlier was evidently still in 
progress and with its share of partisans. 


As is often the case in partisan conflicts, the etiol-
ogy of the problem is ignored and all that’s left are its 
symptoms. This one began when, in the 19th century, 
market hunters invented a cruel technique to capture 
wild migratory geese and harvest them for their down. 
The hunters would catch a few dozen geese, clip their 
feathers to prevent them from flying away, and release 
them on a lake. Dozens of other migratory flocks would 
then land on the water, seduced by the appearance of 
safety. Once the lake was full, the market hunters would 
blast it with rifle fire. The geese would take off and the 
sky would become so crowded that day turned to night. 
Anywhere the hunters aimed they struck a bird. For a 
moment, every hunter had the skill of Apollo. 


For a century, this was the norm. Over and over, the 
practice proved its efficacy and the Canada goose was 
systematically destroyed. But as conservation came to 
be a fixture of American politics, the Canada goose 
found an unlikely ally in the federal government. The 
Migratory Bird Treaty Act, passed by Congress in 1918, 
prohibited the slaughter and trade of migratory birds 
without a license from the Fish and Wildlife Service 
and mandated that market hunters release their cap-
tured stock. The geese they were releasing, however, 
had been bred in captivity, had their wings clipped, and 
couldn’t migrate. Their biology broken, they became 
“residents.”


Humans forced geese to live contrary to their nature. 
But nature was already being remade in a way that coin-
cidentally suited the geese. According to the Cornell 
Ornithology Lab, “as lawns started to proliferate, many 
of these resident geese flocks began to thrive and expand 
their range.” The suburbs, with their manicured grass, 
man-made lakes, athletic fields, and golf courses, cre-
ated the perfect conditions for geese––plenty of nutri-
ents, open space, and no natural predators to evade. 
Over a 40-year period, the U.S. Department of Agricul-
ture recorded roughly a doubling in the population of 
migratory geese in North America––from 1,000,000 in 
1970 to 1,840,000 in 2012. In contrast, during the same 
period, the resident goose population increased nearly 
15-fold––from 250,000 to 3,850,000––eclipsing the 
migratory population. In Connecticut alone, between 
1950 and 2009, the overall goose population increased 
from fewer than 500 to over 52,000. If hubris begets 
nemesis, humans have gotten theirs.   


A few geese here and there are unlikely to ruffle 
feathers. But the fantasy of suburbia––of nature pris-
tine, tidy, and subjugated––doesn’t comport well with 
thousands of geese roaming free, carving out their own 
territory, leaving turdulent gifts in their wake. Subur-
banites’ main concern is geese’s propensity for the 
excremental act. In a day, a single goose will deposit up 
to two pounds of turd––14 percent of its body weight. 
The 50,000 geese in Connecticut, in a week, will pro-
duce 350 tons of turd, or, for scale, the weight of two 
blue whales. In 2018, the mayor’s office in Milford, CT, 
received “more feedback about goose poop than just 
about any other matter of city business.” 


The problem extends beyond despoiled soccer fields. 
Contamination of watersheds and lakes from Canada 
goose feces is well-documented. Some strains of bac-
teria in samples of goose feces, when hit with a host 
of antibiotics, showed resistance. Backyards, lawns, and 
playgrounds ridden with droppings pose a health risk to 
small children.


Canada geese are “a social problem,” Min Huang, 
a wildlife biologist at Connecticut’s Department of 
Energy and Environmental Protection, told me. “The 
state’s implemented liberal hunting seasons in Septem-
ber, January, and February to reduce the numbers,” he 
said. “There’s been legislation on the books since 2002, 
allowing for goose round-ups. Not a single town has 
taken advantage of it to avoid the controversy. They’re 
spending money on harassing the birds and putting up 
effigies.” Mr. Huang added that the Yale golf course was 
a perfect example of the effigy approach gone awry––in 
the past, there were coyote decoys on the grounds, but 
the geese quickly became habituated to them and used 
them for shade. Scott Ramsay, who was superintendent 
of the golf course for 17 years and left the position this 
past September, kept a goose dog to haze any resident 
birds and establish the area as a predator’s domain. But 
about four years ago the geese overran the grounds, 
says Peter Palacios Jr., the new general manager of the 
course. Matt Golino, the master gardener, was forced 
to call in a goose mitigator to deal with the problem. 
It seems to have proven effective: the grounds haven’t 
seen many geese of late.   


A whole industry has grown up in the shade of coy-
ote decoys. Among the local specialists, there’s Geese 
Peace, Geese Relief, No Geese Today, Connecticut 
Goose Solutions, Wild Goose Chase New England, 
and The Gooseman Cometh. Goose mitigation strat-
egies include an arsenal of devices that could arm a 
small militia: chemical agent repellants, pyrotechnics 
and propane cannons, lasers, plastic-coated kevlar grid 
lines, mylar tape, automatic exploding cannons, motion 
sprinklers, barrier fencing, and trained goose dogs. 
Harassment by dog is the industry standard, and the 
standard dog is the border collie. Geese Relief’s Chris 
Santopietro told me that the bias for the breed can be 
attributed to its instinct to “herd, not hurt.” Santopi-
etro uses traditional sheepherding commands to direct 
the dogs, first having them stare the geese down. “The 
stare mesmerizes the geese and they start to move,” he 
said––they retreat but don’t leave. Then the dogs set off 
in pursuit. With repetition, the geese eventually capit-
ulate, coming to accept that the area isn’t theirs, and 
they move on. 


One morning in October, I accompanied Santopietro 
on a chase at a cemetery in New Canaan, CT. We met 
at the entrance––two huge stone pillars and swinging 
metal gates, worn from many passages to and fro. We 
were headed for the lake at the heart of the cemetery. 
A flock of geese had set up on its banks and when we 
arrived on the scene, I understood why. The place was a 
goose’s paradise––expansive fields to graze, a pond full 
of shoots and stems, a forbidden feast for the taking. 
Seeing us, the geese inched toward the water. San-
topietro took a few minutes to survey the flock’s move-
ments to make sure it had no injured members in its 
midst. His dogs typically don’t touch the geese, but 
there’s always the chance that an injured or sick bird, 
slow to flee, might get caught in the heat of herding. 
Satisfied that the flock was healthy, Santopietro opened 
the back of his truck and unlatched a dog crate. Out 
bounded Chip, a black and white border collie with a 
rough coat and an intensity that could cut diamond. 
Immediately the geese flew to the lake, all the while 
honking and hrinking, the female goose’s call. San-
topietro barked the sheepherding commands––“Lay 
down, Chip!” meaning “get low to the ground and slow 
down”––and the operation began. Chip approached 
the lake on a crawl, one deliberate paw at a time, lock-
ing eyes with the flock. Santopietro called out the next



**Geese on Chapel Street**
**Author: Zachary Groz**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 31
round of commands––“Walk up! Right there!”––and 
Chip sprinted to the edge of the lake. After several 
laps around, Santopietro issued the final phrase––
“Get in!”––and Chip dove into the water. The geese 
flew off into the sky––dozens marshalling themselves 
into a “V”––and disappeared beyond some clouds. 
Chip strolled back to us, looked for a clear patch of 
dirt, and, finding one, wiggled around there until he 
was dry. The chase was over.    


Geese can’t be chased into oblivion, but they can 
certainly be shuffled around and made someone 
else’s problem. Thirty years ago in The New Yorker, 
Adam Gopnik described a similar kind of transient 
peace with rats in New York City. The technique’s 
three commandments were to contain them, confine 
them, and convince them to leave. The goal with 
both rats and geese is to get them to go––where to 
isn’t the point.  


No one has sympathy for rats, but plenty do for 
geese. The ancients didn’t question their nobility. 
In Rome, geese were considered sacred to Juno and 
kept in domestic supply for rituals. When the Gauls 
invaded the city in 390 BC at the Battle of Allia, the 
Roman historian Livy credits the geese who sounded 
the alarms with saving the republic. Nowadays, the 
defenders of geese again say these are birds of prin-
ciple: they mate for life, look after their young, and 
care for their sick. They’ve adjusted to an environ-
ment engineered by humans and have become one 
of its facts. Earlier this year in the New Haven Reg-
ister, Priscilla Feral, president of Friends of Animals, 
an international animal advocacy organization based 
in Darien, CT, proposed a way to coexist with resi-
dent geese: “[Canada geese] aren’t going away…the 
only thing to do is clean up after them.” Feral cites 
successful cleanup programs in Ottawa and Boston as 
alternatives to harassment, roundups, egg treatment, 
organized slaughter––even anti-goose vigilantism. 
New Haven County is no stranger to acts of anti-
goose vigilante justice. In the last ten years, the 
county’s seen a string of road rage episodes targeting 
geese. In 2017, a driver deliberately hit and killed 13 
geese in Waterbury; in 2018, a man plowed through 
a “multitude” of geese, killing a gosling; and in 2010, 
a beloved resident goose in Meriden named Buddy 
was killed and a letter of intent left at the scene. 
The town raised a $2,000 reward for the killer’s 
capture. The goose problem has all the trappings 
of war––its own bellicose sides, peace activists, and 
casualties––and bespeaks a temper in American life 
that, from time to time, explodes. Short of training 
resident geese to resume their migratory routes––a 
method proven successful in the late 1980s and 
early ‘90s––we’ll have to accept the goose’s year-
round permanence in the national landscape: 
They’re with us now, and they like it here. These 
birds have an urge for staying.


Perhaps one day, with a serious effort to reestab-
lish migratory routes, millions more will be flying 
north and south, but for now on Chapel Street, the 
only Canada goose you’ll see migrating is a thou-
sand-dollar parka. For the moment, the appear-
ance and disappearance of flocks of these down 
coats mark the change of seasons more than geese 
in chevron formation. But should you ever be in 
the right place to see 500 geese take wing from 
the ground, Connecticut Goose Solutions’ Jamie 
North, a veteran chaser, has one word of advice: 
“Duck.”       
-- Zachary Groz is a sophomore in 
Jonathan Edwards College
“New Haven County is no stranger to acts 
of anti-goose vigilante justice.”


**TOADS IS CLOSED**
**Author: Julia Hornstein**
**Page number(s): 33**

 33
TOADS  IS  CLOSED
Wednesday nights at Toad’s are silent for the near 
future, but Yalies’ memories are still vibrant.
JULIA HORNSTEIN
A
t about 9:45 PM on a Wednesday night, you can find 
Pierce Daly ‘23.5 scouring the depths of Bass Library. 
And no, it’s not because he can’t figure out the last ques-
tion on his econ problem set due tomorrow morning (well, 
maybe he should focus on his pset). Daly, procrastinating 
whatever homework is still on his docket, strolls around 
the library in search of Yalies craving a midweek adven-
ture.


A Toad’s Place aficionado since his first Wednes-
day at Yale, Daly considers himself a “Woad’s (that is, 
W-ednesday T-oad’s) loyalist.” And Daly is the perfect 
candidate for the Woad’s Scholarship (a title bestowed 
upon Yalies who attend every Woad’s dance party of 
the school year). A social butterfly, Daly is a household 
name among the Class of 2023. “I’m the only one of 
my  friends who makes an effort to go every week,” Daly 
said.


As soon as his last Wednesday class ends, Daly begins 
plotting his adventure. Ready to cash in nights under 
Bass’ fluorescent lights for Toad’s glistening disco ball, 
Daly begs his friends to put down their pencils, shove 
their dying computers into their stuffed backpacks, and 
make a beeline for the always reliable Farnam pregame. 
After scouting the ideal group, usually composed of a 
few friends and a handful of randos, Daly emerges from 
Sterling’s main entrance — crew by his side, homework 
on the brink of completion. Infatuated by the thrill of 
post-Toad’s 2 AM homework sprees in a stupor, Daly 
walks down York St. with a new group of Woad’s hope-
fuls every Wednesday night. 


Nothing can deter Daly from making the trek to 
Woad’s. In sickness and in health, Daly once vowed to 
attend every Wednesday dance party — even when mid-
terms loom large. “I’ll do my best to drum up some busi-
ness if I’m really hankering to go,” Daly said, laughing. 
When Daly approaches the bouncers at the door, 
he’s hoping for a night “busy enough that [he’s] always 
meeting new people but empty enough to prevent suf-
focation.”


But now, 81 miles away from York St, Daly reflects on 
what once was — his Wednesday night routine shared 
with Yalies yearning for a serendipitous break in the 
workweek. In a country forever changed by nearly nine 
million COVID-19 infections, nights standing shoul-
der-to-shoulder with fellow Yalies on Toad’s stage feel 
worlds away.


“Toad’s is shut down like a damn morgue,” Toad’s 
Place owner Brian Phelps said.


COVID-19 has decimated small businesses across 
the country. As of August, 163,735 U.S. businesses have 
closed their doors, and Connecticut’s small businesses 
are lobbying for $70 million in grants. According to 
Moody’s/CNN’s Back-to-Normal Index, Connecticut’s 
economy is currently operating at 88 percent of what it 
was prior to the COVID-19 lockdown, which began in 
mid-March. But the reality on the ground — a board-
ed-up Toad’s and a deserted York St. — feels apocalyp-
tic.



**Toad's Place: A Yale Tradition in Uncertain Times**
**Author: Julia Hornstein**
**Page number(s): 34-35**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
As we approach the end of the year, the Independent Restaurant Coalition is sounding the alarm, warning that if no progress toward a deal is made, 85 percent of local bars and restaurants will have to close their doors by 2021. 

As of October 8, Connecticut transitioned to Phase 3 reopening — allowing bars, restaurants, and other businesses to increase their indoor capacity to 75 percent. But the Toad’s Daly and his fellow Yalies remember is hinged upon closeness, which has prevented its reopening. What’s more is that the bailout Phelps is counting on shows no signs of coming: The looming federal relief bill seems distant to Phelps and other small business owners, leaving Toad’s — a bar dependent on cramped, clammy dance parties — in limbo.


Todd Kaplan ‘86 can recall Toad’s stuffy odor like the back of his hand. “I bet it still smells like beer,” Kaplan said. “It’s as if all the furniture had been soaked in beer for the past 100 years.” 
Daly saunters over to the dance floor and is acutely aware of one thing and one thing only: He probably won’t remember much about Woad’s come his 1 PM class tomorrow afternoon. While Daly can’t call to mind which cheesy throwback songs DJ Action spun from the Lilypad, he can still remember “Woad’s [being] such a hodgepodge of people.”
But it used to be even more of a mixed bag. “It was a nice blend of people from school and locals,” Kaplan, who was captain of Yale’s swim team, recalled. “While it wasn’t everyone’s cup of tea, it felt pretty good because I grew up there.”
Toad’s wasn’t always a haven for Yalies in search of a Wednesday night escape; Kaplan was a Toad’s regular even before his admission to Yale. Growing up in North Haven, Kaplan started hopping at Toad’s as soon as he passed the road test at age 16. “You had to work hard to get carded,” Kaplan remembered. “When I was in college, the drinking age was 18, and nobody gave a crap.”
Priyanka Jain ‘23.5 also grew up a few towns away from Toad’s. But, as Lawrence pointed out, times have changed since Kaplan, his high school buddies, and locals alike chugged penny drinks together. Unlike Kaplan, Jain wasn’t a Toad’s regular until her first-year at Yale.
“I was almost a Woad’s Scholar first semester,” Jain proudly asserted. “I missed a few during the second semester because I was a little more focused on my studies.” 
But when Kaplan was a swimmer in Ezra Stiles College, Toad’s wasn’t yet famous for its hump day dance parties. Toad’s Place owner Brian Phelps isn’t quite sure how Wednesday nights were codified as Yale tradition, but he thinks it became routine 15 or so years ago. 
Musician Rohn Lawrence, who completed a ten year residency at Toad’s, cites the drinking age increase in 1984 as the catalyst for the bar ’s collegial relevancy. 
“Toad’s was always influenced by the surrounding colleges to a certain degree,” Lawrence conceded. “But the thing that put a damper on [local turnout] was when the drinking age changed.”
Raising the drinking age posed a high, but clearable, obstacle to the local hot spot. Prior to this law, local bands headlined concerts, attracting a younger crowd to Toad’s. As the drinking age increased, underage patrons were barred from attending these concerts, decimating both the local band scene and bars reliant on a younger clientele. 
“The state changing the drinking age not only made it hard for a lot of businesses, but it killed a ton of local bands,” Lawrence said. “A lot of their draw was [aimed at] 19-year olds, so this forced many bands to break up.”
But Toad’s couldn’t sit idly by. In response to this new law, Toad’s began booking DJs, a cheaper alternative to bands, for dance parties. The shift toward dance parties and away from what Toad’s was initially known for — hometown music groups — ultimately drove locals out and Yalies in, Lawrence recalled. 
And thus, the pinnacle dance parties Daly dreams about while banging out a ten pager in Sterling’s stacks were born.
Surprisingly, Kaplan wasn’t entranced the York St. staple’s star-studded performances. “They occasionally had music; most of it was pretty bad,” Kaplan laughed. “Every once in a while, it was alright.” 
Phelps took serious offense to Kaplan’s assertion, rattling off dozens of top chart artists that took to Toad’s stage during his tenure: Bruce Springsteen, Bob Dylan, David Bowie, Cyndi Lauper, Cardi B, Post Malone, and Kanye West, to name a few.
As Phelps recovered from knee replacement surgery last summer, he found himself reflecting upon Toad’s influence on the Elm City. Over a year later, Phelps is now teaching his own history lesson of sorts on Toad’s: With the help of New Haven Register staff reporter and columnist Randall Beach, Phelps is penning a book about Toad’s’ “vast history” that is slated for release sometime next year. “When I started working with Randy, I gave him 42,000 words to work with,” Phelps said.“My favorite part of writing is when I start thinking about all the different things that [have] happened here over the years.”
After listening to Phelps’ writing methodology, it’s safe to say he lives and breathes Toad’s Place. But had


Phelps not crossed paths with Toad’s former owner Mike Spoerndle (affectionately called “Big Mike”) 45 years ago, he would’ve never wound up in what has become the most defining adventure of his life. 
One night in 1975, Phelps and his friends were playing poker in Phelps’ karate school on Broadway when someone broke down the front door and stole the studio’s sign. Immediately, Phelps and his friends ran around the corner and found their sign and the culprit in front of Toad’s. 
“My buddies were gonna get in there and go after him,” Phelps remembered, but then, Spoerndle intervened and called the cops. 
Although Phelps “never saw a nickel” for the damages incurred by the altercation, a lifelong friendship with Spoerndle was born that night. “We were best friends right when we met,” Phelps said.
And soon, the rest would be history: Phelps started working as Toad’s manager in October 1976. 
But in January 1995, Spoerndle left Toad’s due to substance abuse issues, leaving Phelps at the bar’s helm. Despite cutting business ties, Phelps stayed “right [by] him to the last few years.” 
Spoerndle passed away after his battle with substance abuse in 2011.


Fast forward 44 years, Phelps doesn’t think he could’ve dreamt up a reality even comparable to the one this country is grappling to understand.
“Nobody really knew what to expect,” Phelps said. “You know, we haven’t had one of these in 100 years. God, I thought this was gonna be shorter.”
Yalies like Daly and Jain — and alums like Kaplan— are also concerned about the bar’s uncertain future. 
“I can’t imagine my Yale experience without Woad’s,” Daly said.
With no decisive end to social-distancing nor a vaccine approved for public use, Phelps had to reassess Toad’s’ future.
But after nearly half a century of penny drinks and dance parties, Phelps has every intention of keeping Toad’s afloat: Inspired by “the resiliency of humanity,” Phelps is optimistic that a vaccine, which some experts say will be rolled out to the public before the end of this year, will get the club hopping again. “I have enough reserves to go until fall 2021, and I have a tremendous amount of equity in the building,” Phelps said. “I’d like us to get to 50 years and beyond.”
With that said, a study conducted by Harvard University indicates that social distancing might be the norm through 2022.
Regardless of the uncertainty ahead, Toad’s hopes to throw private parties in accordance with Connecticut COVID-19 guidelines until it’s safe to pack Yalies back onto its sticky dance floor. And Lawrence is hopeful that, with Phelps at the helm, the York St. classic will stay afloat. “Brian has a lot of capital: He can hold it down for a long while,” Lawrence said.
Phelps was also hoping to host sit-down concerts, but state regulations prohibit singers from performing indoors. Phelps is now thinking about doing a free virtual send-off, show for Yalies around Thanksgiving. 
“Maybe people would like to dance around in their own rooms for an hour or two,” Phelps said. “This is all we can do: Nobody wants their students in large gatherings [nor] dancing around together.”
Although this is far from ideal, Phelps has found a silver lining or two: All this extra time has allowed him to focus on polishing his book and fixing up Toad’s basement. 
Amidst all the ambiguity the pandemic has cast over everyone’s lives, one thing’s for sure: “Toad’s won’t change what [they’re] doing,” Phelps said. 
COVID-19’s shock waves don’t just threaten Yalies’ Wednesday night escapades. Toad’s walls whisper New Haven’s very history and, by extension, Yale’s fraught yet attempted reconciliation between itself and the city it attempts to coexist with. And COVID-19 stands to sanitize the stale beer stench Kaplan so fondly recalls, put an end to Daly’s excursions to York St., and threaten Phelps’ livelihood. But only time will tell what the future holds for Toad’s Place. Until then, memories will have to suffice. 
-- Julia Hornstein is a sophomore in Ezra Stiles College



Join The New Journal
February 9, 2020
Looking for writers, editors, 
designers, illustrators.
Join our team!
Email helena.lyng-olsen@yale.edu and candice.wang@yale.edu 
to join the panlist and receive more information!
Follow us on Instagram @thenewjournalatyale

