Publication date: December 8, 1968
Volume: two
Issue number: five

**MASTHEAD:**
- Editors: Jeffrey Pollock, Jonathan Lear
- Business Manager: Jean-Pierre Jordan
- Executive Editor: Herman Hong
- Art Director: Bruce Mcintosh
- Associate Editor: Lawrence Lasker
- Advertising Manager: K. Elia Georgiades
- Copy Editor: Paul Bennett
- Photography Editor: Robert Randolph
- Circulation Managers: John Adams, Steve Thomas
- Contributing Editors: Jonathan Aaron, Susan Holahan, Mopsy S. Kennedy, Michael Lerner, Leo Ribuffo
- Staff: Dennis Evans, Marty Davis, Joseph Fincke, Anna Fleck, Kathy Grossman, Nicolas Heller, John Hull, Rodger Kamenetz, Michael David Rose, Barney Rubin, Scott Simpson, Nancy Vickers, Warner Wada, Michael Waltuch


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- The English reformation - Michael Holahan
- Malraux: hero, Jansenist and Jacobin - Henri Peyre
- Once Junie Moon tells you - Paul Moore
- Not Morton, baby - Rodger Kamenetz
- Reason and revolution - William McBride


**Title: In Comment: a poor unsuspecting Unoptypist is forced to create poetry, and life with mother isn't quite the same as life with father; especially when its raining.**
**Author: Susan Holahan**
**Page number(s): 2**

If you attended the reading by last year's Yale Younger Poet you know such a character exists, even if you don't know how.

Most likely you couldn't care less whether the Yale Press ever finds a new judge for its contest. If you hope to publish your own poetry someday, no doubt you'll be (or you already are) too sophisticated to think you'll have any luck in this highly establishment competition.

At a very literary cocktail party a knowing raconteur might share with you the following inside apocryphal item: Several years ago, the judge of Yale Younger Poets considered the manuscript of a youngish man. "This is the best manuscript I've ever read," said the judge (verbatim to give the illusion of drama). "But the world is not ready for this sort of poetry." The little-magazine world had appreciated the work in question for years, but the Yale Press world could not meet the challenge.

So the judge selected another manuscript for the prize, a collection of poems by a young lady whose lack of verbal control neatly matched her lack of ideas and imagination (as the same judge admitted in correspondence). Young men had won in recent years. The world was ready that year for a female poet. It got her, as they say, with a vengeance.

Your raconteur might go on to point out that of the two poets involved the man has not yet had a book of his poems done (he's now beyond the age-limit of Yale's contest), whereas the young lady has several books out, each sillier than the last. On her behalf Yale's recognition has exerted an artificial influence. For him, perhaps the failure mirrored an entrenched mistrust throughout academic and commercial publishing of experimental poetry.

Recently a note in the Yale Daily News announced the Yale Younger Poet for 1968. A good time to ask, What is a Yale Younger Poet anyway? An adventurous young writer who wins an early chance at an audience? Or an imitator in early middle age who wins approval for following instructions? The rules require entrants to be poets under 40 who have not yet published books of their own poetry. Fine, but the results have made only certain styles acceptable for union membership.

Early generations of Yale Younger Poets have left little trace on American poetry. Then W. H. Auden took over. A few of his choices are now, in their maturity, making more than a dent: W. S. Merwin (Y.Y.P. 49) and James Wright (Y.Y.P. 53) for two. Both Wright and Merwin won the award for books much more academic and much less interesting than their present work, but a poet-watcher must be grateful for the chance they won to develop into the poets who last year produced The Branch Will Not Break and The Lice. After Auden, Dudley Fitts, famous as a translator and teacher, judged the manuscripts until his death this summer. His choice in 1961, Alan Dugan, won the National Book Award and the Pulitzer Prize, a sign not only of Fitts' sure instinct for the style of the moment but also of his clear insight. Dugan's angry intelligence in that first book opened up formal and stylistic possibilities for other poets.

From the inside, a choice looks inevitable, since ninety percent of the manuscripts come from the proverbial housewife in Duluth, faithful attendant at summer sessions of Creative Writing Programs at midwestern universities. From the outside, the choice looks impossible: how can you be sure any younger poet will justify your award when the wisdom of your judgment is itself judged years later? However you choose you go out on an historical limb; yet judges of the Yale Younger Poets rarely go out on artistic limbs. A Yale Younger Poet "experiments" by playing cute tricks, like writing a "Joy Sonnet" by instructing the printer to fill out a certain-size block with "Ia's." A Yale Younger Poet may have heard about action elsewhere in American poetry; he never makes the running.

The Yale Younger Poets series has come to define an acceptable style of poetic limitation, unambitious and inward. No reason why such a poet should not win a prize once in a while. But once in a while, not every year. Appointing the judge for an indefinite period-or life-installs one opinion in authority far too long, making taste rigid, making a single style a (false) standard.

Benefits of the prize for the poet are obvious. For the audience's benefit, this competition could yearly focus on the best example of one current poetic mode. If a new judge came in every three years, no one style could prevail too long. No poet would face oblivion because the Yale Younger Poets man detested surrealism or despised projectivism. The award might instead contribute to the growth of diverse styles, and the Yale Press might someday print a concrete poem.


**Title: Moms**
**Page number(s): 2-3**

The Hill-Dwight MOMS Welfare Rights Organization began last August in discussions among recipients of Aid to Families of Dependent Children. The mothers soon arrived at three common conclusions: "The distinction made between children on welfare and children not on welfare is detrimental to the normal growth and development of our children." The welfare system does not treat them equally, nor are any of them up to the state's own minimum standard. They saw that only as a group could they hope to win their demands.

The mothers appointed a committee to investigate back-to-school clothing standards, and a Christmas committee. These committees went from the caseworkers to Miss Perry the assistant district director, to her superior Mrs. Schean, to her superior Mr. Ely receiving a collection of denials of power, contradictory policy statements and outright "no"s.

The MOMS decided to bring a larger group of mothers to meet with the welfare department and the social workers. On Tuesday, November 5, Election Day, the MOMS entered the large room of the welfare office on Bassett Street. They were invited to the conference room, and accepted on condition that they could return if they failed to get satisfactory enforcement of the legal State minimum standards.

When the MOMS returned to the large room where the social workers interview clients, 28 were arrested. They face six-month jail sentences (their children to be placed in foster homes) and/ or $250 fines.

Early Tuesday morning, November 26, the MOMS and other interested parties met at last with State Commissioner of Welfare Shapiro in the small basement auditorium of the Connecticut Mental Health Center. In a mixture of Biblical reference ("I am a special pleader for the poor") and liberal rhetoric ("The peaceful civil rights revolution of rising expectations of the poor must not become the violent revolution of disappointed aspirations of the disadvantaged"), Shapiro outlined his position in terms of getting his budget through the legislature. He concluded, "It is in the halls of the House that the budget is passed, and that's where we need your help."

"Mr. Shapiro, I'm Claudie May Kelley. I'm a grandmother and a great-grandmother. I'm trying to raise seven kids with one pair of pants a year."

"Our rule represents a minimum standard. On that standard the legislature gives us $215 million. We fought for that open-ended budget (in 40 states they give you the money and that's it) ... "

"Trouble is I didn't get it. I got eighty-one dollars and fifty cents-to raise seven kids. Their mother's dead; their father's in the gutter somewhere. I got $6 to buy a raincoat and $3 for a pair of boots for one six-year-old boy. I don't know where you found those prices."

Mrs. Marie Harris: "We're not even up to your minimum standards."

Shapiro: "Any person with a request should bring it to a caseworker."

Mrs. Harris: "When the Hill-Dwight MOMS went to the department, our checks were held up. Mothers not in our group got clothing without even asking. Why not bring us up to your standard?"

Shapiro: "When the legislature speaks, it speaks for the whole community. When the Waterbury mothers asked for five pairs of pants, it got into the papers, and I got letters from one man who said he was a sub-executive in a big company. He worked real hard and he said he only had three pairs of pants for his son."

"Mr. Shapiro, I got nothing. Last summer I asked my social worker for sheets and pillow-cases. She said, 'I'll get around to you when I get around to you and you'll just have to wait.' I think that's very rude of her."

"Every week I visit a different district, like I been in Middletown and Stamford last week. And everywhere I say, 'Serving the poor is a privilege, and one of the most important things is to have heart.' "

Mrs. Kelly: "Mr. Shapiro, I'm beggin you."

Audience: "Don't beg."


**Title: The English Reformation**
**Author: Michael Holahan**
**Page number(s): 3**

Last spring the finest English department in the country took some rough handling from the Course Critique. Teacups shook for a while in the Elizabethan Club, then sat firm; it was all a result, the keener saw, of SDS infiltrating the major. Nothing wrong with the program itself. And over the summer office space was expanded in HGS. But the shaking ought to go on for a while longer. The major does need thorough reforms and not merely rearrangement and relabeling of existing procedures.

This fall several faculty and student committees, with many words and some discussion, are attempting to plan changes. Perhaps a bill of complaints might be helpful.

1) The prerequisite has gone unquestioned for too long, as has the very idea of a prerequisite to literary studies.

2) The Medieval-Renaissance requirement (four terms from English 30--42) is a fragment from an earlier arrangement of the major.

3) Course offerings are restricted by early twentieth-century notions of important figures, period-divisions and genres.

4) The department treats creative writing as a retarded stepchild.

5) Students have no part in making up courses.

6) The departmental examination, mistakenly called "comprehensive" by faculty and students alike, is not only anti-educational but anti-literary (ask any victim of reading or writing one).

7) Apart from comps, the department has no way of distinguishing work in senior year from work in junior year. If the department commits itself to thorough reforms now, these complaints need never agitate the loveliest minds in the Class of '73.

Certain questions confront any department rethinking its major, but they are particularly thorny in this case because of the size of the English major at Yale. First, who is the major? Why did he choose this field? What bearing has his major on his future career? Obviously, there is no single answer. English majors go on to many professional schools, not just graduate study in literature. The major may become a high-school teacher, a politician, a publisher, any kind of businessman, someday even a housewife. Motives for studying English literature range from liking books to wanting to teach, from a need to create polished memoranda to a need to create the great American novel. To undergraduates English promises freedom from professional limitations and a diversity of character in the students it attracts. The department must consider carefully whether the present procedures of the major fully respect this freedom and diversity.

A second question continues from the first. What is the place of rules in a college major? How valuable is the uniformity of knowledge and experience that rules impose? The potential lawyer and the poet will not fit the same mold; Milton will be a curiosity to one, a brother and rival to the other. And since uniformity is most often a selective pattern, why have rules which require everyone to study Spenser and ignore Sterne, or to study Spenser at a particular time and in a particular way? If the department begins by thinking about the kinds of students in the major rather than the kind of major for the students, then the apparent importance of rules and uniformity will diminish. Rules will cease to work against the freedom and diversity which should distinguish the Yale English major.

To insure freedom and diversity in the major, the department could-

1) Eliminate English 25 as the sole prerequisite to the major. A prerequisite implies necessary fundamentals to be mastered before a student can begin his major. Yet English literature is not a hierarchical discipline. You learn as much going back from Eliot to Donne as you do going forward from Milton to Pope. The long narrative poem is not a prerequisite to drama or the novel. The student should be free to choose from a range of specified courses his own entrance into the English major. Instead of facing the confusing and invidious distinctions among English 15, 25, 29 and Literature I, he should use the prerequisite as a perspective, satisfying his own intellectual interests instead of an administrative requirement. And an awareness of various perspectives could temper the current view of literary history as a mere record of past dates and encourage students to consider the relations between historical ordering and other methods of ordering literature.

2) Eliminate the requirement that students take four term courses between English 30 and English 42. No matter how important the figures, works or periods, special protection of interest groups ruins liberal education. Julian Beck won't displace Shakespeare; and students would respect Milton as a poet of political action rather than as the last dusty celebrator of the Elizabethan World View. Most damaging of all, this particular requirement strongly suggests that the English department cherishes all literature over 250 years old. The suggestion is false and could easily be removed.

3) Offer courses new in form and substance. To read the course catalogue now is to trudge from one half-century to another, from the age of one big name to the age of the next. There is no reason, for example, why a course could not trace different literary treatments of madness in The Praise of Folly, Hamlet, Swift's Tale of a Tub, the Romantic poets, Celine's Journey to the End of Night. Such a course might easily explore relations between literature and psychology or between the methods of literary criticism and those of psychoanalytic interpretation. Or courses in literature and film. The English department does not leave Homer to the classics department. Why leave Griffith, Oliver, Kubrick and Warhol to the history of art department?

4) Offer more courses in creative writing and work to eliminate the distinction between creative expression and critical insight. Courses could combine creative and critical projects, to test awareness and control of language. Attempts to imitate prose styles or recreate poetic forms can produce as much insight as strictly critical studies. To staff these courses, the department need not diminish its commitment to scholarship in recognizing that literature has other professors than scholars. To renew its literary life, Yale needs more working poets and novelists.

5) Urge students to experiment with course structures. A student might earn double credit for special work on Pope in a general course on the 18th century. Or, while studying the Romantic poets, receive credit in the major for a history course on the French revolution or a philosophy course on German idealism. Or develop analogies between poetry and music,




**TYPING on your BURSAR'S BILL**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
TYPING on your BURSAR'S BILL 
= __, 60c/ page overnight 
40c/ page regular 
Office hours: 7-9 Sun.-Thurs. 
165 Elm Street


**Political Order in Changing Societies**
**Author: Samuel P. Huntington**

Political 
Order 
in 
Changing 
Societies 
by Samuel P. Huntington 
The major causes of violence and 
instability in the emerging countries of 
Asia, Africa, and Latin America, 
argues Mr. Huntington, are to be found 
in the lag in the development of 
political institutions behind social and 
economic change. Focusing on ways 
of creating new, effective bases for 
political association, he offers 
valuable insights on age-old problems 
of political change In both Western 
and non-Western societies. 
Samuel P. Huntington is Frank G. 
Thomson Professor of Government 
and chairman of the department of 
government at Harvard University. 
$12.50 
Yale University Pr ... 
New Haven and London 
"Eyes flash, throats tighten, fists clench as 
the spectres of departmental tyranny or vast 
student illiteracy raise themselves before 
otherwise fine minds." 
poetry and painting, without spending days 
bound in the red tape that separates de-
partments. Success in a program like this 
will depend on the students. As faculty 
and students continue to rethink old 
courses and suggest new ones, the faculty 
will find that teaching freshly is not in-
dulging whims, and the students will find 
that courses are not merely pieces of ad-
ministrative property. 
6) Abolish that albatross known as 
"comps." This topic usurps all discussions 
of reform in the major. Eyes flash, throats 
tighten, fists clench as the spectres of de-
partmental tyranny or vast student illit-
eracy raise themselves before otherwise 
fine minds. (Only great epithets, no re-
forms, come from these heats of passion: 
"You scholastic, you J aosenist bastard 
you!") Yet even those faculty members 
who breathe excitedly about a Platonic 
Form of The Comps admit that in practice 
the departmental exam has not worked at 
all well. And if it has not worked well and 
if the committee method of creation holds 
little promise for future success, why con-
tinue it either as a sole requirement for 
graduation or as one possibility among 
others? It wastes time to argue about it, to 
take it, to grade it. 
7) Help all majors make the senior year 
a significant conclusion. With a faculty 
advisor, each senior could plan a project 
to give coherence to his major. Together 
they could determine the credits to be 
earned and the program to be followed. 
Together they might evaluate the success 
of the effort ... but this last is probably 
only in that apocalyptic future when gen-
eration gaps are bridged by rainbows, Nor-
man Mailer is director of undergraduate 
studies and courses in the graduate English 
department are modeled on seminars in 
Yale College. 
As the professor walked off, be shouted 
back against the wind, "If you do, don't 
forget to put in something about the pur-
pose of the major." One thought: pur-
poses, not a purpose; majors, not a major. 
And thought some more: but should the 
department construct a coherence to the 
major? No. It can't. Since the student 
chooses a limited number of courses, the 
department's job is to provide courses for 
his selection and set the number necessary 
for graduation. The major itself is what-
ever coherence emerges from a student's 
choices. Courses belong to the depart-
ment; the major belongs to the student. If 
the courses are working, why should the 
department feel the need to test or assign 
anything apart from those courses? The 
questions go on too long. Better terse: Co-
herence is a matter of individual experi-
ence, not administrative fiat. 


**Malraux: hero, Jansenist and Jacobin**
**Author: Henri Peyre**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

Malraux: hero, 
Jansenist and J acobin 
by Henri Peyre 
Andre Malraux, Anti-memoirs. Translated 
by Terence Kilmartin. New York; Holt, 
Rinehart and Winston, 1968,420 pp. 
The publication of the strange, shapeless, 
unorthodox Anti-memoirs by the French 
minister of culture was preceded and fol-
lowed last year in France with an orches-
tration of publicity, interviews and book 
reviews which antagonized the more fas-
tidious readers. The parties of the left and 
a number of intellectuals who probably 
vote for De Gaulle but would not for any-
thing in the world confess it and who vi-
tuperate against the regime, loudly vented 
their rancor; they see in Malraux a former 
revolutiona.ry who has betrayed the cause. 
Not a few of them, whose liberal convic-
tions have seldom brought them to act and 
incur risks (signing petitions for all vic-
tims of injustice, tyranny and racism is 
their favorite pastime around their cafe 
tables), secretly envy in Malraux the man 
of action who has been in jail at least twice, 
fought in several wars, courted death half 
a dozen times. At sixty-seven (he was 
born in November 1901), while others 
delight in questioning and confronting 
what they call l'icriture, Malraux is still 
the greatest master of vividly and imagina-
tively wielded language in France and 
probably in Europe. The Swedish Aca-
demy has been intimidated by him more 
than it was by Sartre and has not as yet 
selected him; yet Anti-memoirs towers 
Henri Peyre is a Sterling Professor of 
French Literature at Yale. 
miles above the minor masterpiece and the 
confession of discouragement which Les 
Mots was. Several years earlier, when 
Camus received the news of the award, he 
proclaimed at once that the Nobel Prize 
laureate should have been Malraux, whose 
achievement will long outlive his. With all 
its faults, which are glaring, Anti-memoirs 
is the most striking book, probably the one 
work of genius, to have come out of West-
ern Europe in a dozen years. 
The volume is long, rambling at times, 
written with little concern for the pedes-
trian reader. Malraux is famous for his 
monologues and might remark like Sten-
dahl at leaving a party: "I have not been 
bored one minute; I spoke all the time." 
Here he has shown some ability to listen. 
But in reporting his dialogues with 
De Gaulle, Nehru, Mao and a few other 
interlocutors of lesser magnitude, he has 
lent them his own imperious, elliptical 
style. The reader is bewildered and no 
longer knows which of the two giants is 
saying what. Chronology is haughtily dis-
regarded. Transitions, once the darlings of 
French rhetoricians and careful reasoners 
striving for the French goal of suite dans 
les idees, are skipped. Fitful memories, or 
rather visions of the past, are interspersed 
capriciously with reflections made today; 
experiences of thirty years ago are con-
trasted with present observations. The only 
order is that in which memory conjures 
up the past. Yet no volume could be more 
anti-Proust ian than this recovery of time 
past enshrined in the present. Malraux has 
no patience whatever with his childhood, 
which he contemptuously ignores; none 
with the probing into one's inner life, 
none with the questions which have fasci-
nated other authors of confessions, from 
Rousseau to Sartre and Simone de Beau-
voir: "How and why have I become the 
one that I am?" Not one word about his 
adolescent revolt, if he ever experienced 
one. Not one about his loves or his sexual 
life, about Clara Goldschmitt Malraux 
(his first wife) who has not been so discreet 
herself when relating her memories of 
the man who had been her husband for 
twenty-five years. 
Much else is omitted from these discon-
nected but passionate reminiscences: the 
author's visits to Russia under Stalin and 
to the Germany of Hitler (who refused to 
receive him); his role as organizer of Re-
publican propaganda in the Spanish Civil 
War; his trip to the United States in 1937, 
after he had been wounded in that Civil 
War; his conversations with President 
Kennedy and his wife in 1962; his con-
tacts with French Communists when, 
though never a member of the Party, be 
struggled alongside them in 1933-36; his 
many conversations with Valery, Gide, 
Martin du Gard, Le Corbusier ; his mother, 
who never appears in this book or in his 
fiction. We are told that three more vol-
umes of Anti-memoirs are to follow, prob-
ably posthumously. Several pages in the 
present work already read as, in the phrase 
of Chateaubriand: Memories from be-
yond the grave. 
The willful, stubborn disorder in which 
these reminiscences, vignettes and reflec-
tions are thrown here may upset sticklers 
for structural order. With a little ingenuity, 
some of them, in learned articles, will 
someday discover some hidden organiza-
tion here and a zealously masked logic 
under the desultoriness of the variegated 
chapters, as they are naively proud of do-
ing in the fantasies of Montaigne and of 
Diderot. Malraux cares little and has 
never courted critics. He is a classic and 


--- Page 6 ---



**Anti-memoirs**
**Author: Unlisted**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
71 The New Journal I December 8, 1968 
ponents, were uppermost in Malraux's 
mind: he too had had two brothers perish 
in the Resistance, his two sons accidental-
ly killed. The Chinese leader does not 
appear in these pages as a dictator and a 
propagandist. CalmJy, be states the basis 
of his grievances against America, his 
hopes in his people, but also the colossal 
obstacles in front of him. He too is a poet, 
an intellectual who bas risen from the 
anonymous peasantry. But he is not exul-tant and haughty. He is desperately alone. 
Twice the phrase comes to Mao's lips: "I 
am alone, with the masses." Misereor 
super duces: I take pity upon all leaders, 
Malraux's fictional heroes had already 
seemed to say, echoing Christ's sadness. 
Three themes recur throughout Anti-
memoirs, which refuse and spurn banal 
confessions, self-justification, boastfulness 
and the claim to sincerity. Man and his-
tory: perpetually the past is there, inform-
ing the present, giving density, continuity, 
meaningfulness to life. That past must be 
transcended, but first it must be absorbed 
and re-lived. As for Michelet and for 
Nietzsche, history is a reminder to man 
that be can leap forward and change life, 
never a sterile memento mori. 

Man and art is the second theme. Mal-
raux perceives, grasps the concrete vivid-
ness of landscapes, objects, people with an 
eagle's eyes. His best sentences are as 
sharply outlined and definitive as any in 
Tacitus. But it is in museums, in shops of 
antique merchants, in sculpture of the past 
that he reads the secrets of a civiliaztion, 
that the pulse of a nation beats. Art alone, 
in his famous formula, is a victory against 
man's fate, a triumph over all our fatali-
ties, an assertion that all is not sound and 
fury nor life a tale told by an idiot. 

But a third word is the key word of 
Anti-memoirs, repeated hundreds of times; 
one theme pervades all the chapters, and 
that is "death." Malraux's father, his 
grandfather also, bad committed suicide. 
His father, a few days before taking his 
own life, had confessed to him that death 
inspired him with an intense curiosity. 
The three greatest scenes in this volume, 
which are no longer conversations, but un-
systematic or restrained and disconnected 
records of lived action, are Malraux's near 
encounters with death. While perilously 
flying over Arabia when he attempted to 
photograph the ruins of the Queen of 
Sheba's palace, his plane ran short of 
fuel, struggled against a tornado and mi-
raculously landed safely. In 1940, while 
serving in the tank corps, Malraux and his 
crew were engulfed in a deep hollow in 
which German artillery was to bombard 
them; again, he escaped with his life, was 
taken prisoner of war, thrown into the 
cathedral of Sens with hundreds of other 
prisoners and finally fted to the unoc-
cupied zone of France. The third time, in 
1944, while a colonel in the Resistance, 
he was arrested by the Germans, wounded, 
almost shot by a firing squad. His papers 
had been mistaken by the Gestapo for 
those of his brother; his torture was de-
layed a few days. Then the Germans fled 
from Toulouse, and the liberated prisoners 
acclaimed Malraux as their leader. As 
he lay in the infirmary of the prison, be re-
quested one book from the nun who 
attended to his wounds: the Gospel of St. 
John. 

Yet be refuses faith and Christianity. 
Like Camus, he believes that agoomcs to-
day have ravished the tragic sense of life 
and anguish from orthodox religion; that 
they can best live up to what one of the 
characters in The Conquerers, almost 
forty years ago, had already declared: "It 
is not in order to die that I think of death 
obsessively, but in order to live." Any 
civilization is, overtly or covertly, haunted 
by what it thinks of death. Only thus can 
it create. Man is the only animal which 
knows that it must die. He imagines, cre-
ates and fights against the gods, a tragic 
hero. "Any faith," writes Malraux, "dis-
solves life into the eternal, and I was am-
putated from the eternal." 

Malraux once, in a famous interview 
given while he was fighting on the Alsa-
tian front, declared that he (like Bema-
nos, Giono and, he might have added later, 
Sartre and Camus) stands in a tradition 
which goes back to Corneille and to Pas-
cal, which is heroic, Jansenist and J acobin. 
He is indeed one of the classics of Euro-
pean literature, and years ago, while Pom-
pidou was still a lycee teacher, he com-
piled a small volume of extracts from 
Malraux in which be suggested topics for 
student essays. The first one was a fine 
sentence: "An intellectual is not only he 
to whom books are a necessity, but any 
man whose life is ordered by an idea, how-
ever simple it may be." Pompidou, Mal-
raux, De Gaulle himself, Adenauer lately, 
Wilson in Britain, McCarthy and Steven-
son before him in America, Mao and Ho 
Chi Minh and not a few of the other lead-
ers of our time are indeed, or have been, 
intellectuals courageous enough to act on 
their ideas and on their faith, imaginative 
enough to prepare action by meditation 
and thought. 


**Giggling In The Teeth of Death**
**Author: Paul Moore**
**Page number(s): 8**

8 1 The New Journal ! December 8, 1968 
Giggling In The Teeth 
of Death 
by Paul Moore 
Marjorie Kellogg, Tell Me That You 
Love Me, Junie M oon. New York; Farrar, 
Straus and Giroux, 1968. 216 pp. 
The house was hollow. The banyan tree 
shed its leaves carelessly, and shingles fell 
freely from the roof. High above the front 
yard a scruffy old white owl kept watch. 
Sidney Wyner, the slob next door, was 
clipping his hedge when the freaks drove 
up. Staring out the mucky windows of the 
broken-down taxicab were the three for-
mer patients, their eyes gleaming happily. 
Arthur was the first to jump out of the 
car, incredibly excited; jerking first left, 
then right, like a busted butterfly. Arthur-
the contorted jumble of arms and legs, 
always screwing up his face into a thou-
·sand popping expressions. Bawling end-
lessly, he was the most gutless of the three, 
confining his thoughts to a fantasy world 
of sexual conquest. Arthur, skinny-legged 
Arthur, pulling his twisted hair out of his 
head, thinking his world was falling 
around him, that he was· drowning in a 
sea of dread. 

Next Warren, fat and lazy Warren. 
Mouth always spouting orders, beard 
dotted with dribbling spit, Warren talked 
to keep himself busy, to rebuild his sanity. 
Warren the hunter, spending countless 
days grubbing for straight and flashy 
friends to show off to his fellow monsters. 
The master flatterer, a con man with 
paralyzed legs, a homosexual. 

Junie Moon was the last of the three 
and the ugliest in a close race. No acro-
batics for her. Junie Moon stepped 
gingerly out of the taxicab, holding her 
head high. Junie Moon, the sweet and 
stupid name for the charmer with the 
messed-up face and stringy dirt-brown 
hair. Frail as a ragdoll, her face no regular 
kind of ugly-a red gash for a nose, two 
crooked slits for eyes, broad bloody steaks 
drawn across her face. The rest of her just 
as sad, her hands naked red stumps, 
tender and torn. No fingers. Her mouth 
a thin line across a face ripped with tears 
of tissue, eyes like tiny bullets of terror. 
Junie Moon is stately. 

The new home for Arthur, Warren and 
Junie Moon, next door to Sydney's, was 
all falling down. The steps were crum-
bling. The windows had been broken 
months ago. The yard was a mess of 
sticks and rocks left by the kids before 
the house was boarded up. But none of 
the three noticed . . . Arthur threw 
Warren into his chair and they wheeled 
up the cement steps. What a paradise. A 
beautiful big tree in the middle of the 
yard- Warren noticed that. So what if 
the gate was rusty and the front door 
stubborn? Junie Moon was chattering 
madly and cracking dirty jokes. Arthur's 
arms and legs and hands and everything 
flying in different directions. Warren as 
Caesar in a wheelchair, ignoring Junie 
Moon's caustic tongue and yelling orders 
to everyone, telling them what's for din-
. ner and what their jobs are. 

Arthur, Warren and Junie Moon moved 
in to live in an "odd juxtaposition of love 
and horror." Love in ragged and torn 
faces, gimpy bodies and naked minds. But 
where is the love in horror? How can a 
beggar giggle, how can a cripple laugh 
a real laugh? 

Neither Arthur nor Warren nor Junie 
Moon could go outside without being 
thrown onstage. Walking down the street 
Paul Moore, a senior in Yale College, is 
editorial coordinator of the Yale Daily 
News. 
became an endless trial of loneliness and 
pain. Children laughed and pointed, and 
parents tried to curb their emotions. Un-
wanted, untouched, their friends were 
either professionals paid to be sympathetic 
or other lonely people. 

Living together in the old and shaky 
house was their idea. To leave the hard 
starch and callous hospital was a gamble, 
to test the monster outside. Away from 
the home of the past, the house of heart-
ache, weakness and fear, where "phantom 
pains" sap one's sanity and cloud one's 
dreams. They left the hospital more on 
mutual daring than heavenly expectation. 
But when they reached their house on 
the edge of town, it was finer in its torn 
condition than the hospital with all its 
plastic. 

· 
Although there were major battles over 
who did the dishes and who slept on the 
porch, Arthur, Warren and.Junie Moon 
knew they were needed. In the hospital, 
everyone had learned to look at each other 
without wincing. The rub in their rela-
tionships was a confusion of truth and 
fantasy. Warren could hardly stop talk-
ing about his rich and important "friends," 
and Arthur was captivated by his sexual 
fancies. But alone in the house, they 
needed honesty. Their idiosyncracies be-
came lovable instead of annoying. 

Soon, Arthur and Junie Moon were 
lovers, of a sort. Since they were on such 
a constant fever pitch, a lot of romance 
was generated by a word here and a word 
there. When Junie Moon first shook off 
her customary sarcasm, Arthur thought, 
"If I touch her, we will be blown to 
kingdom come." And when Arthur 
slicked back his hair, put on his clean 
flowered shirt and danced out the door 
to find a job, Junie Moon could hardly 
stand it: 

She heard his sobs and the water running in 
the bathroom and watched him go out the 
door again and down the path, his hair 
cotnbed and his shirt tucked in. She thought: 
his goddamned heroics are going to make 
me bawl. 

Their shells were so broken by tragedy 
that their insides showed no matter what. 
When Warren picked up a glamorous 
rich "girlfriend," the house became a 
palace. When Arthur was refused a job, 
the skies grew dark. The littlest cut was 
too much. 

But company can work changes. Junie 
Moon, always a toughie, was destined to 
be crusty and senile. She was the kind 
who would love but not talk about it, an 
obstinate bitch whose charm could in-
timidate the Devil, whose wit could 
conquer Rome. So Junie Moon became 
the leader, with the other two plodding 
after her like half-witted basset hounds. 
Both Arthur and Warren spent hours try-
ing to get Junie Moon to say yes. Arthur, 
because he was falling all over himself 
loving her. And Warren was destroyed if 
Junie Moon ignored his magic schemes. 

As the days passed and it became too 
cold for brownies and lemonade outside, 
even cool and pale Junie Moon started 
changing. The warmth of community 
overcame her cold, hard self. She became 
less and less like "an old shoe, an old 
aunt, or an old sister" and more and more 
like a living, loving woman. 

The interdependence was there and the 
love followed, slowly and surely. And 
you admit that once Julie Moon tells you 
that she loves you, the ball flies over the 
fence. And you're home free. 
I! 


TheY ale University Student Calendar Agency 
announces the publication of its 1969 calendar. 
Using original color photographs, this year's 
calendar is a work of art. 
It will be sold on campus by the Christmas gift 
book salesmen December 2 through December 9. 
Also available at the Associated Student Agency 
office in Hendrie Hall (165 Elm St.) 
price: $5, students: 4.50* 
Buy one for yourself and mail a couple to your 
friends for Christmas. 
Charge it to your Bursar's bill 
*Price includes mailing costs for gift calendars. 



**Title: Not mah-jong, not chinese checkers; the name of the game is still entertainment**
**Author: Rodger Kamenetz and Jeffrey Pollock**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Not mah-jong, not chinese checkers; 
the name of the game is still entertainment 
by Rodger Kamenetz and Jeffrey Pollock 
In a wide-angle shot Humphrey Evans Ill looks like 
Joe Dallesandro from Warhol's movie Flesh: eyes 
half-open, making love to the ever-present camera. 
Cross legs, raise eye-brows and laugh knowingly into 
the lens. But as the camera moves to a close-up, an 
alert, intelligent and dedicated musician and com-
poser is seen, whose works have been performed by 
symphonies coast to coast. 
"Glamour. That's what it is," Humphrey insists in 
speaking of his hero Warhol. "He's a serious innovator 
in his art form, yet what he and his group do is often so 
antithetical to traditional form or subject matter that 
he necessarily puts you down. I mean that he's estab-
lished a kind of integration of New Art and New Life-
style, and he presents it with a flamboyance and 
assuredness that says, 'My style is a valid alternative 
to yours, either accept it for what it is or be left out!' " 
In Humphrey's own work a similar self-justifying 
philosophy has evolved. Like Warhol's cinema, his 
music is a combination of a classical background and 
a unique philosophy for his own art. The freak-world 
Superstar and the musical genius, two scenes in a 
film, two faces for Yale and two personalities for Hum-
phrey Evans Ill. 
" People should act as they feel," Humphrey insists. 
"If they are bored they should say so. The music, as I 
see it, is trying to reach over the protective barriers 
and grab the audience, physically or sexually or in-
tellectually. And they should react to that. There's not 
enough physicality at Yale. People aren't responding 
to about ninety-five percent of their feelings." 

To establish a community of adequate response and 
sharing, Humphrey and a group of friends formed a 
musical group called "Morton, baby" (named after 
New York composer Morton Feldman) to play some of 
his compositions at a concert in Washington this 
summer. 
Matt Huxley, son of Aldous Huxley and a friend of 
the Evans family, was familiar with Humphrey's music 
and recommended him to the director of the concert 
series at the Smithsonsian Institute. Several tapes of 
Humphrey's musical compositions were heard, and a 
concert date was set in August. It was suggested that 
the core of the ensemble be the group in New Haven, 
augmented by several professional musicians to be 
hired in Washington. 
Paul Severtson, violinist and concertmaster of the 
Yale Symphony, had met Humphrey three years ago 
through the Music School. Humphrey was planning a 
happening, presumably the first ever at Yale, and he 
needed someone to come out of a volcano on stage. 
Paul was suggested, and his performance was a great 
success. Other common interests in music made 
them close friends. 
Burr Van Nostrand, cellist for both the Yale and 
New Haven Symphonies, played chamber music with 
Paul in California. In his third year at the New England 
Conservatory in Boston, he received a visit from Paul 
and Humphrey urging him to play for the Smithsonian 
concert in August. Burr not only accepted but moved 
to New Haven to continue his composing. 
Stephen " Lucky" Mosko, a percussionist for the 
Yale Symphony, taught Humphrey to play the tam-
bourine for a concert last March. A former percus-
sionist and assistant conductor at fifteen for the Brico 
Symphony in Denver, Lucky began composing with 
Humphrey, and the two worked together on the new 
musical notation Humphrey was preparing for the con-
cert. 
The four musicians were joined by Bruce "Booze" 
Hamsome, a friend of Humphrey's at Yale who was to 
play the part of "Superstar" in the final piece, Sales-
man. They spent a week rehearsing at Humphrey's 
house, working up to twenty hours a day. 
" We worked so intensely together on this show, I'd 
say we did about a hundred hours a piece on it," 
Humphrey remembers. "For five of us, that's five hun-
dred hours of very intense creative work. We found 
that we began to establish our own language, that the 
program became a self-referential closed unit. But 
we didn't take ourselves too seriously. In a sense it 
Rodger Kamenetz, a junior in Yale Cal/ege, is ma-
joring in intensive English. 
became one big 'in joke,' but it had value in that we 
were so personally involved." 

The basis for the language the group established 
was a highly stylized method of notation Humphrey 
had been developing for the past two years. In his 
music, scores are set up in checkerboard patterns 
with geometric diagrams, arrows, word images and 
some musical notation. Each unit of music repre-
sented is open to interpretation by the musician. The 
ideal is not so much improvision as a highly integrated 
expression of personal moods or "gestures." 
Although the idea of different notation is itself not 
new (composer Cornelius Cardew has published a 
book of similar scores), Humphrey brings to his com-
posing the idea of " gestural music." The music is 
supposed to be an expression of personality through 
gestures suggested by the composer to the performer, 
as a man's walk or the way he speaks says something 
about his personality. 
" Part of the purpose of the notation is to free the 
musician so that he can concentrate on what he is do-
ing. In the Yale Symphony, for instance, m.ost of the 
students have only a very little time to rehearse--per-
haps just the few hours of rehearsal plus any work 
they can do on their own. Now, the symphony did a 
Schoenberg piece along with my Night Sky Music that 
was fully notated and very complex. The musicians 
had to spend most of their time learning how to get 
their fingers around theirlnstruments. With my piece, 
hopefully, they could begin to get into what the music 
is all about. 
"The music is a way of observing 'natural process' 
as it functions in one's daily life; like trying to get 
tv, education and Miami Beach all into one's music." 
Humphrey smiles and shrugs his shoulders. 
"I suppose that when Beethoven first introduced his 
music the people thought It was outrageous and in-
accessible. To make them sensitive to what he was 
doing, Beethoven had to convince them he was sin-
cere in what he was presenting." Humphrey leaned 
forward. 
" It's not even a matter of liking or disliking the piece 
you are performing. I remember at Tanglewood the 
Boston Symphony was doing a piece and there was a 
musician who absolutely abhorred my work and 
everything it stood for, yet he did a very fine job of 
playing it. Then there were some people who thought 
it was a real gas but didn't take it seriously enough 
and felt that they could fool around and play sloppily." 

Humphrey's music had been performed by the pro-
fessionals of large symphony orchestras, and also by 
a group of high-school musicians in Boston Sym-
phony Hall. 
" That was beautiful. All these kids together in front 
of thousands of people and TV cameras. I had to give 
them a strong, bold piece that fitted the importance of 
the occasion. They did a great job because they were 
serious about the music yet they were having fun. 
" In writing I try to take the music seriously without 
being too self-conscious or overblown about what I 
am doing." He smiled and continued, "In the program 
notes to one concert, I wrote that the final statement 
about the music might be expressed as 'official 
whimsy.' 
" I suppose it's like playing a game: chess, mah-
jong or better yet, some absurd game like chinese 
checkers. There's a way to play any game, with fin-
esse and skill. If you don't take the rules of the game 
seriously or if you play it disinterestedly, then the 
game is pointless and no fun." 
" Notation is nothing more than an ordered and ac-
cepted way of conveying information. So gestural 
notation influences not only content but also what we 
mean by information. The interplay between com-
poser and performer is as important as the relation-
ship between performer and audience. The notation 
also blurs the distinction between the classical forms 
or art; it is a visual experience in graphics, and it de-
mands of the musician a dramatic as well as musical 
interpretation. In one of my pieces the violinists talk 
while they play." 

In last summer's concert with "Morton, baby," the 
gestural notation made different kinds of demands on 
the performing musicians. "I spent hours looking at 
the score, studying my part," Lucky explained. "In one 
of the pieces, Calais graffiti IV, there was the notation 


--- Page 11 ---

111 The New Journal I December 8, 1968 
'Red Scarf!' so I wore a red scarf around my neck. 
And one of the tapes that I was to play during the 
piece was the soundtrack of an Indian movie with a 
title which turned out to mean Red Scarf." 
Meanwhile, Paul had read his part of the score and 
decided that he had to begin playing his piece in front 
of the Chinese embassy that morning. So Lucky drove 
him out, and Paul played his violin for several hours 
to the minions of Chiang Kai-Shek. 
" Paul's performance is really important in under-
standing what is going on in this kind of musical 
theory." Lucky continued " Three things were going on 
at once. Humphrey was backstage at this point, listen-
ing to a piece he had composed but not knowing that 
Paul had played at the embassy that morning. And the 
audience didn't know that they were only hearing 
the last two hours of Paul's playing. The important 
thing is that this separation doesn't matter. Humphrey 
once composed a vibraphone piece for me called 
7:15a.m., in which I began playing in the backyard at 
7:15 the morning of the concert." 
Paul's score for Calais also read " establish radio 
contact," so several blocks from the Embassy he 
turned on the car radio. That night, Bruce was in a cab 
on the way to the concert when he realized he had 
forgotten his autoharp. He had his cab driver call the 
cab Paul was in to see if Paul had the autoharp. The 
call came when Paul was passing the spot near the 
Embassy where he established "radio contact" 
earlier. So in the performance, Paul's interpretation 
was directly related to Bruce and what he was play-
ing. 
The entire group spent the afternoon before the 
concert drawing different figures in the blank spaces 
provided for Bruce's biography on the programs. 
Just as the music explored the problem of words or 
symbols giving information to the performers, so any 
program notes questioned the wnole idea of trying 
to talk about the individual biographies of the per-
formers. 
. 
The group gathered props for the concert: a Vic-
torian couch that remained on stage throughout the 
performance, a coat hanger bent to look like the 
Spirit of St. Louis (from which Lucky hung his percus-
sion instruments) and twenty miscellaneous un-
breakable objects (a syringe, a mannequin head, etc.) 
that Bruce was to play in Salesman. 
About four hundred people came to the smaller 
auditorium at the Smithsonian that night to hear "The 
Music of Humphrey Evans Ill." Balding men in suits 
and their big-breasted w ives confronted the cluttered 
stage and young members of " Morton, baby." With 
the opening piece, an aria called "dolce madre" from 
Pyramus and Thisbe, the audience was won over. 
"The piece was modern and dramatic and humor-
ous," Lucky explained, " and the people loved it. Es-
pecially Burr's singing. They applauded as he walked 
off stage, but he got lost behind the screen and wan-
dered on stage again. The audience applauded 
wildly." 
The first half of the program was generally con-
servative, with only twenty people walking out During 
intermission, Lucky played a tape from a Bela Lugosi 
soundtrack at the exact level of the audience noise. 
Before the intermission was over, Lucky began to play 
his part in Calais, and the musical expression in gen-
eral became freer. 
In Salesman, Burr played with the twenty assorted 
objects on stage and moved through the audience 
singing " soup ... soap" and throwing dog biscuits to 
the audience. Lucky came out to serenade an elderly 
lady on the super-mandolin and then presented her 
with a bill for ten dollars. 
" The audience was great," Humphrey concluded. 
" But the question always comes up about 'under-
standing.' People think they don't understand us, but 
then-" Humphrey paused, " they do." A quick nod of 
assurance. " After all they pay to see us, they come 
and get angry at us, or they react in some strong way, 
and then they get away and say they didn't under-
stand us. It's a shame, but it seems that people con-
fronted with something new get very upset. 
"It's funny, but the nicest audience I ever had was 
in Hattiesburg, Mississippi. This was when I was tour-
ing with the New Orleans Symphony. It was a very 
hot Sunday evening, and the place wasn't air condi-
tioned so everyone was sweating, and all these-
matronly belles were waving their fans. They really 
liked the music and after the concert, they came up on 
stage all flower dressed and powder breasted and 
practically smothered me to death." Then, in a per-
fect deep South falsetto, he imitated, "Whah, Mistuh 
Eh-vans, yo' music was just mah-velous!" 

The members of " Morton, baby" were sitting 
around listening to Bulgarian folk music the first week 
of school. " We were drunk in Paul's room-intensely 
drunk and crying-and someone said, w hy don't we 
play at a mixer-and three days later we had a con-
tract." Two new members, Lucky's brother Marty 
Mosko and Jeff Fuller, had been added to the group. 
Marty is a senior linguistics major, playwright and 
poet. Jeff is a graduate student in music, a composer 
and former member of the Hard Corps. 
Except for Jeff, none of the people in the room had 
ever played in a rock band before. But somehow, in 
the secret depths of their drunkeness they discovered 
that amongst them was the collective soul of a rock 
and roll extravagana. 
Steve Goldin thought so. As chairman of the Bran-
ford College Social Committee, he helped decide to 
hire the band. Originally they were to perform at a 
mixer with another band, but plans were changed and 
" Not Morton, baby" made its solo debut in the Bran-
ford dining hall, at ten o'clock the Friday evening of 
Dartmouth weekend. 
They began setting up around seven o'clock that 
night and needed every minute of the three hours, for 
they were " really overkilling the sound" as Jeff Fuller 
said, hooking up enough amplification equipment to 
burst at least a few eardrums. Each instrument was 
individually amplified: Jeff's electric guitar and Paul's 
electric violin and Burr's electric cello and Marty's 
electric piano. Also on stage were Marty's set for 
" Salesman," the final piece, and a real live bathtub for 
the first number, " Amphetafish.'' Ed Ferraro, the 
manager of the group, his face painted orange and 
green, surveyed the scene with tlis customary scep-
ticism, wondering whether or not the stage would fall 
in under the weight. 
At ten o'clock they began coming in. " The lads for 
the girls and the lads for the liquor were there," the 
straights all suited up in triumphant plaids and college 
ties, ushering their dates ahead of them with arms 
perhaps a little too self-consciously outstretched; and 
those other people too, in pajamas and flowing silks 
and arab burnooses and outlandish kerchiefs and 
beads, with painted clothes and painted faces all day-
glo, hip halloweeners dancing on All Saints' Day. 
The freaks had been summoned by Humphrey and 
Lucky to do their bit in Salesman, Humphrey's piece; 
about thirty of them were holding two page scripts 
which read like this: First, be an audience for 21 
minutes and 10 seconds, dancing ad libitum but not so 
as to attract attention to yourself ... Situations: 
boredom in the midst of chaos; chaos in the midst of 
crashing; getting angrier, embarrassment for grass-
stains on one's new pants ... getting more intense 
and starting a La Crepe society, vomiting on one's 
new hat; shattering the mind, making tea with meat-
tenderizer." 

In order to perform these functions, they brought 
paraphernalia: old socks, a toy pistol, an orange traf-
fic pylon, an ancient crucifix. The straights clumped 
together and stared in bewilderment at the freaks. Or 
perhaps what caught their eye was the incredible 
band itself, surrounded by strands of barbed wire. 
" You've got an instrument in your hand," Paul had 
said, " and it's very loud. It's you, but magnified hun-
dreds of times. That's power, though it's a very safe 
kind of power because nobody's going to get killed 
or be poor because of it ... But in a sense, we ac-
knowledge that we're hostile." 
Paul himself looked least hostile, in fact, mostly 
angelic, dressed all in white with a Donovan blouse. 
Thin, intense Burr, in a white skin waistcoat and silk 
shirt, was aloof as he turned his cello. But Lucky, yes 
Lucky was truly hostile, if only as an act, with his 
black leather jacket, black boots and sunglasses. He 
sat before his drums and he was no longer Lucky, he 
was Ginger Baker, with a cigar dangling from the 
side of his mouth. 
Finally, Lucky arrived and began the first piece of 


--- Page 12 ---

121 The New Journal I December 8, 1968 
the rock concert, Also Sprach Zarathustra by Rick 
Strauss. The straights in the crowd were very an-
noyed. "Why don't you play something?" a short guy 
in a dark suit shouted. 
Humphrey did a rendition of "Past, Present and 
Future," a song made memorable by the Shangri-Las. 
"But don't try to touch me," he warned in a convincing 
falsetto at the climax of the song, "because that will 
never happen again." 
Burr's cello work was the dramatic element of 
"California Dreamin?" This was the big hit with all the 
guys who had been yelling for music to dance to. 
When he played, he stared forward with intense con-
centration; alone with his music he seemed almost 
oblivious to the ruckus going on around him. 
Lucky was the star in a strange "free blooz improv" 
that followed. While Paul's violin conversed with 
Jeff's guitar, he took the rhythm of the song to wild 
heights, flailing his arms, nodding his head back and 
forth and losing his glasses, getting in an incredible 
number of extra beats and then suddenly collapsing 
the rhythm on purpose by missing the beats, until the 
piece wound down like an old watch. 
Finally, the time arrived for Salesman. Humphrey 
had been working on the piece since last summer. It 
is incredibly complex, involving music for the band, 
scripts for thirty actors and dancing choreographed 
by Martin Wilkes. Salesman would run for forty-five 
minutes, and the plan was for a snow-ball effect; as 
the music began to build towards a climax, more and 
more actors in the audience would begin performing 
until chaos set in. 
The sound of Salesman was amazing, anarchic. It 
rose and fell; each musician was wrapped up in his 
own secret battle with his score, as if the music pro-
duced was a prize wrested from a devil' by a struggling 
soul. 
Fistfights broke out; a drunk was kicked in the 
teeth while he crawled on the floor. A group in the 
center bowed to the floor in worship of the moose on 
the wall. Burning incense added a touch of Oriental 
sanctity to group gropes conducted between vast 
puddles of beer. 
And the band played on. They were gesturing, and 
it is as difficult to describe what their music meant as 
to describe what any gesture means. "When you play 
the same way you talk," Humphrey said, "well, you 
don't ask yourself, Do you talk good? do you talk bad? 
That doesn't mean much. You feel good about it-
it feels honest. Sometimes you look at it later and it's · 
pretty hostile or screwed up or something else, but 
it's real; and it makes them do real things too." 
"Not Morton, baby" played that close to themselves 
-as they talked-and suddenly they reached a point 
where they were all coming together in an insane 
crescendo: Lucky beating the cymbals furiously, Paul 
bowing very high and very fast, Burr attacking the 
cello with quick stabs and Humphrey, as if he had 
found yet another self, chanting in incredible falsetto. 
And at this point, the lights came on. Not Morton 
baby was busted. 
The way it happened to Mitchell Marks was that he 
was playing with a toy gun which he pulled on a man 
in a trench coat and said, "Bang, bang, you're dead." 
The man in trench coat turned out to be a cop and 
the gun was quickly confiscated in a move no doubt 
taught in police training school. Mitchell eluded his 
pursuer by crawling among a group of dancers. 
The way it happened to Steve Goldin, chairman of 
the Branford Social committee was that a single 
campus policeman happened to come in, and notic-
ing strange-looking people having a good time with 
candles an<:~ incense, concluded that dangerous and 
illegal drugs were present and that it was his duty to 
call the New Haven police. Steve trying to persuade 
him that this wasn't necessary was forced to turn on 
the lights and stop the show. 
Ultimately, seven campus policeman arrived. Their 
presence reaching the stage through a series of mes-
sengers, "Salesman" was stopped about twenty-five 
minutes before due. A quick conference was called. 
Lucky's reaction was to keep playing, but Humphrey 
allowed as how he was tired anyway. But with con-
siderable confusion still reigning, the band went on 
and played "Somewhere over the Rainbow" and also 
"Yesterday," with Bruce "booz" Hamsome as 
featured singer. 
· 
And so the evening ended. The lights were on. The 
police asked those who weren't cleaning up to leave 
the hall. It was an incredible wreck of splashed beer 
and confetti and broken ballons and wire mesh and 
candle wax and paper cups. Humphrey and Burr and 
Lucky and Marty and Jeff and Paul relaxed with the 
bathtub behind stage. Humphrey felt that such a 
dramatic appearance by the police could .not help 
but make Not Morton, baby a success. 
After "Not Morton, baby" the group has been con-
. tracted to appear in concert at Columbia this winter 
and in a club date at the Gaslight Cafe. Aside from 
the Warhol-like changes from Superstar to concert 
musician-composer and back to Superstar, Hum-
phrey is pretty much the same. In the short auto-
biography for the program notes at the Smithsonian, 
Humphrey wrote: 
"Born in new york city, 1948. travelled, orthodon-
tistry, lonely, etc. compositions, finally, nothing else, 
really. pleased with that. worked nights mostly. ended 
up at Yale. spent a summer at Tanglewood. recently 
found some friends, but still writing music, still 
pleased." 


**Title: Reflections on reflections on revolution**
**Author: William Leon McBride**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
13 I The New Journal I December 8, 1968 
Reflections on reflections 
on revolution 
by William Leon McBride 
A young, mini-skirted female graduate 
student challenged Professor Ekkehart 
Krippendorff during the question period 
that followed his lecture, raising the is:sue 
that haunts any student of revolution, 
reactionary, radical or in between. Why, 
she asked, was the Herr Professor stand-
ing in this musty SSS classroom, calmly 
commenting on alternative possibilities 
for revolutionary student movements be-
fore mostly like-minded people, instead 
of being out on some street or campus, 
confronting? ".The point," as Marx said 
in the Theses on Feuerbach, "is to change 
it." Or if one sincerely believes that change 
would be deleterious, the point is then 
to resist it. 

What was being said, however earnest-
ly, in a small Yale classroom at four on 
a Tuesday afternoon seemed unlikely to 
change very much. And this fact seemed 
to pose a dilemma that we-Krippendorff 
and I, the other speakers, the girl graduate 
student and everyone else involved in the 
special philosophy department lecture 
series on revolution-had to try to re-
solve. If, as an academic, one is busily en-
gaged in contemplating the eternal Forms 
or in analyzing the structure of the demo-
cratic process in Chicago between 1964 
and 1967, then there is no problem. But 
if one chooses to be a student of revolu-
tion, then isn't one ultimately impelled to 
commit oneself to act, either to change or 
to resist change? 

During the question period following 
my own presentation two weeks earlier, 
one of my more conservative senior col-
leagues delivered an impassioned defense 
of quiet, revolutionary social change 
wrought without fanfa.re. He condemned 
the theological type of reasoning, as he 
saw it, behind some questions I had raised 
concerning necessary attributes of genuine 
revolution, in the Marxist sense. I thought 
at the time, and stiJI think, that he failed 
to see how close I had been to agreeing 
with him about the sterility and meaning-
lessness of terms in which theoretical ar-
guments about revolution have often 
been couched by so-called Marxists. My 
lecture had been composed in such a way, 
I thought, as to bring this out. But basical-
ly, his feeling of antagonism towards my 
ideas (our personal relations are very 
amicable) was justified: beneath the fre-
quent sterility and meaninglessness of 
the locutions, I am convinced that there 
is something that matters very much. 

As a philosopher, though, perhaps I 
am condemned to trying to battle with 
locutions. A former student of mine in the 
audience (who had returned to Yale 
after a year's absence during which he 
had become "radicalized") answered my 
colleague better than I did or, given my 
position, ever could have. He simply 
pointed out that, for students in Prague 
or Chicago, to understand better the 
realities of their present-day society or 
the real possibilities for change was a 
matter of utmost significance. To them, 
at least, the suggestion that the whole 
affair might be meaningless could not be 
a serious or meaningful suggestion. 

William McBride, assistant professor of 
philosophy, is currently on a leave of ab-
sence writing a book on neo-Marxism. 

Still, I remain bothered by the am-
biguity of my personal existential posi-
tion: a lecturer on revolution, favorable 
to change but unable to admit that the 
popular model, "C'est La lutte finale," 
makes sense. My talk, the second in the 
series, was entitled "Revolution and the 
New Marxism," as a complement to my 
friend Shlomo Avineri's, introductory 
"Marx and Revolution." My idea was to 
consider some of the problems posed for 
independent-minded contemporary Marx-
ists-first by the conceptual absurdity of 
speaking of "the revolution" as if it had 
been or could be an instantaneous, de-
limitable Apocalypse, and sec.ondly by 
the historical reality of the betrayed 
Revolution which the Soviet Union to-
day seems to offer. 

I began by pointing to Eduard Bern-
stein as a model of the impasse into 
which superficial varieties of "revision-
ism" can lead, went on to survey some of 
my very disparate heroes (Lukacs, Bloch, 
Kolakowski, Sartre, Lefebvre, a few 
Yugoslavians and Herbert Marcuse) on 
the nco-Marxist scene, and ended by in-
troducing the issue of the "revolutionary 
subject" which the next speaker, Herr 
Krippendorff, was to discuss. At one point, 
I made a few remarks to the effect of our 
needing something like a conception of 
"permanent revolution," not exactly in 
the Trotskyite sense, but in a sense closer 
to what Mao Tse-Tung and some Yugo-
slav philosophers (an absurd combina-
tion!) have written about. But the largest 
section of my talk was devoted to pulling 
some emotive wings off revolutionary 
butterflies of the eschatological sort. 

Maybe this is the quintessential philoso-
phical move-the move towards under-
standing what is radical and violent, as well 
as what is established, as part of a totality, 
a system. If that is so, then in a community 
of genuine revolutionaries the philosopher 
would always be a subversive-! mean 
counter-revolutionary-figure. He would 
always be tracing historical precedents, 
comparing his own community to other 
communities, .systematically considering 
alternatives-in short, relativizing the 
community's sense of radical novelty and 
uniqueness. Perhaps our whole lecture 
series is a manifestation of this counter-
revolutionary subversiveness: a plot, may-
be a subconscious one, to analyze away 
all revolutionary elan under the guise of 
showing some sympathy for it. At least, 
it could be so interpreted, and this dis-
turbs me. 

If I felt an ambiguity in my own case, 
it seemed even more pronounced with 
two of our other speakers, Shlomo Avineri 
and Hannah Arendt. A vineri, who spent 
three semesters here at Yale as a very 
popular lecturer in the political science 
department, was passing through for a 
feV( days on his way back home to Jeru-
salem; he opened the series. Having once 
taught a joint course with him and having 
just reviewed his new book on Marx, I 
was not surprised by most of what be said, 
but I was again impressed, as always, by 
the persuasiveness of his scholarship. 


--- Page 14 ---

141 The New Journal I December 8, 1968 
His thesis about Marx and revolution 
was basically that Marx was not a revolu-
tionary in the voluntarist, Jacobin sense 
which has become so intimately asso-
ciated with Marxism because of Lenin. 
He pointed to a list of ten proposals made 
in the Communist Manifesto for immedi-
ate implementation; some of them, such 
as free public school education, seem 
anything but radical today. Interestingly 
enough, the immediate nationalization 
of all industry is deliberately not included 
among the demands. Then too, he re-
minded us, there are several passages-
in letters, in Capital and elsewhere--
where Marx clearly accepts the possibility 
of capitalism's self-destruction by non-
violent means (in the most advanced in-
dustrial nations, especially England). 

Also of great importance, to A vineri's 
way of thinking, was the whole question of 
Marx's credentials as a prophet. His 
letters show him continually expecting 
revolutions in places where they soon 
fizzled. When he finally did hit upon a 
possible combination of events which 
could precipitate the cataclysm in Russia, 
a remarkably accurate anticipation of 
what actually did happen in 1917, Marx 
was speaking of it as a likelihood in his 
own time, some forty years earlier. 

Where did all this leave us? Avineri 
found Marx's scheme admirable as a con-
ceptual model for fundamental social 
change. But he had severe doubts, as the 
last few pages of his book make even 
clearer, about the relevance of any con-
ceptual scheme to actual political events; 
the inadequacies of Marx's prophecies 
helped confirm him in these doubts. As 
for what was once known as "the country 
of the revolution," Avineri's position was 
unambiguous: the USSR is, he said, "in 
no way a socialist country." Having just 
returned a week earlier from my first, 
confusing, touristic week's visit there, I 
would have been somewhat more inclined 
to qualify this statement. But A vineri's 
skepticism about the Soviet Union's claims 
to revolutionary purity is essentially cor-
rect, no question about it. Indeed, if there 
was a single strong point of agreement 
among all the first five speakers in the 
series, it was this point. And the next 
speaker, Marcuse, is similarly skeptical: 
his Soviet Marxism is all about the other 
major one-dimensional society be!>ides 
our own, and official Moscow ideologists 
have returned the compliment by labeling 
him a "bourgeois Marxist." 

It seems to me that the rejection of 
the USSR as one's post-revolutionary 
societal model has serious consequences 
for anyone who wants to analyze revolu-
tion within anything like a contemporary 
frame of reference: unless one takes the 
dubious step of considering either China 
or Yugoslavia as closer to the ideal, one 
runs the risk of talking about future pos-
sibilities in a vacuum. In a way, that is 
exactly what some recent student activists 
(Mark Rudd, Daniel Cohn-Bendit, Rudi 
Dutschke) have done; it has been a self-
conscious stance on their parts. 

Formulating a limited number of speci-
fic demands, they point out, makes a rev-
olutionary movement easier for the Estab-
lishment to contain: specific demands can 
be met, at least in part, and that will be the 
end of it. I can understand this as a tactic, 
but it clashes head-on with the philosophi-
cal tendency to make things specific and 
precise. A movement that refuses to 
specify its future goals is bound to be 
dismissed with labels of "utopianism" or 
"anarchism" or both. Unless, once again, 
one works out a new theory of permanent 
revolution. But, if we leave aside the emo-
tive contents of the words and the con-
trasting identities of the individuals who 
use them, is the hope for "permanent revo-
lution" conceptually very different from 
the old Enlightenment dream of "con-
tinual progress?" 

This, I thought, was the most interest-
jog and disturbingly pessimistic implica-
tion of Miss Arendt's lecture, even though 
she herself never expressed it quite this 
way. Following Sorel, she entitled her 
talk "Reflections on Violence." It was 
long, despite considerable cutting, and it 
had all the usual trappings that one has 
come to expect in connection with this 
distinguished personage: a huge audience 
(the Law School Auditorium was filled to 
overflowing; I should mention that it also 
happened to be Coed Week), enormous 
charm emanating from the small, neatly-
dressed lady with the strong German 
accent at the dais, a fine, invisible net-
work of paradoxes rapidly engulfing the 
entire hall. 

I thought that her central "reflection," 
or paradox, just did not stand up to 
scrutiny in the long run, as a number of 
the questioners from the audience also 
seemed to sense: her claim was not only 
that power and violence do not, as many 
writers seem to maintain, closely resemble 
each other, but that in the last analysis 
they are opposites. The argument for this 
depends on a conception of political 
power as having necessarily to do with 
popular consent. Once one has accepted 
this assumed definition, then perhaps the 
opposition between violence and power 
could be worked out, but this supposedly 
central point of the lecture struck me, 
I am afraid, as being rather more like a 
brilliant jeu d'esprit than a serious con-
tribution. 

On the other hand, when one has been 
through as many disenchanting experi-
ences, both personal and intellectual, 
concerning the pretensions of humanity 
as has Miss Arendt, then perhaps one 
ought to be not criticized for lapsing into 
occasional jeux d'esprit but applauded 
for not having become totally cynical. 

Hannah Arendt is by no means totally 
cynical: she stands for the ethical claims 
of the individual and against a great range 
of evils that she regards as threatening 
them. She knows her Marx very well, 
even while rejecting him, and she also 
recognizes some fundamental inconsist-
encies in the liberal political philosophy 
(notably, in her Yale lecture, the incon-
sistency of its blind faith in progress). 

But what she claims to know best of all is 
the allegedly eternal nature of man, with 
all its possibilities for both virtue and 
viciousness. Who but a very profound 
student of human nature, after all, could 
pretend to get inside of an Eichmann? 


--- Page 15 ---

... 
lS I The New Journal I December 8, 1968 
Hannah Arendt began, very much in 
the spirit of A vineri, by announcing that 
those who claim to be Marxists and who 
advocate violence today are in deep con-
tradiction with the basic thought of Marx 
himself; Miss Arendt, too, takes a strongly 
anti-Leninist interpretation of Marx. She 
ended by announcing that violence may 
sometimes achieve political successes, 
provided that it is carefully used only in 
support of short-term goals. Conse-
quently, violence may at times be a proper 
weapon for "revisionists," but never for 
thoroughgoing revolutionaries. Another 
brilliant paradox! 

But we all sometimes tire of paradoxes 
and try to make genuine, even if only 
tentative, commitments. I was not con-
vinced that Hannah Arendt would be of 
much help on such occasions. On the other 
hand, perhaps "truth" itself consists of a 
series of paradoxes; this is the lesson that 
she seemed at times to be implying. And so, 
like much of the audience, I drew from her 
lecture personal conclusions that were 
ce~ainly not parts of its content. Of all 
our lecturers on revolution thus far (1 
here exclude myself), Hannah Arendt 
stood at once for the most and for the 
least. Vigorous, opinionated, forthright, 
enormously well read, widely experi-
enced, with an entire book explicitly on 
revolution (one of the very few recent 
works of any value) to her credit, she ap-
peared as perhaps the closest thing to an 
absolute authority on the subject that the 
academic world can muster today. And 
yet, as she pointed out in answer to one 
of her questioners, the very concept of 
authority is currently in the process of 
disappearing. And those delicately ab-
stract paradoxes of hers teetered peril-
ously close to the brink of an intellectual 
void in which all cats, both revisionist and 
revolutionary, are gray. 

I should return for a moment, by way 
of contrast, to Professor Krippendorff's 
contribution. Despite the formidability of 
his name and title, he was actually quite 
young and quite approachable. Moreover, 
he was the most anxious of all our speak-
ers to insist that he was not a philosopher. 
(He teaches political science at the Free 
University of Berlin.) His insistence, I 
regretfully noted, was well taken: few 
philosophers would have begun quite as 
he did, in his search for a "revolutionary 
subject," by arbitrarily laying down two 
criteria for the new revolutionary sub-
ject (now that we have gone sour on the 
proletariat, or vice versa) and then simply 
trusting that we would accept those criteria 
as the basis of the rest of his paper. At 
least, a philosopher would have been more 
subtle if he had to be arbitrary. 

The more important of the criteria had 
to do with a group's developing a suf-
ficiently clear awareness of its situation 
and of that of society in order to be able 
to act; it was devised in such a way as to 
exclude the modern proletariat and in-
clude today's students, faculty members 
and other intellectuals. Why the oppor-
tunities for awareness were supposed to 
have been so much greater for the nine-
teenth century proletarians than for their 
heirs, so that Marx's analysis could be 
said to have been accurate in his time but 
not at present, was never properly an-
swered for me. 

Despite the graduate coed's chaJlenge, 
Professor Krippendorff's credentials as an 
activist are certainly impressive. He was 
a central figure in a dispute that initiated 
the Berlin student protest of the last sev-
eral years. As a member of the German 
SDS, be has had ample contact with the 
politics (or non-politics) of confronta-
tion. Nevertheless, his prescription for 
broadening revolutionary consciousness 
among students and intellectuals certainly 
relegated public demonstrations to a sub-
ordinate role. His vision was rather rev-
olutionary, but his view of tactics relied 
heavily on the old-fashioned method of 
education. His present stance seemed to 
me, in the end, to be hopelessly intel-
lectual, and though I found him enor-
mously personable, I saw little hope for 
the ultimate success of the kind of revolu-
tion that he envisaged. In the long run, I 
thought, be would be at his best in a class-
room rather than in a street confrontation. 

**Revolution and the Third World**
**Author: Kenneth Mills**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
It was the fifth speaker, Professor 
Kenneth Mills of our department, who 
finally brought his listeners face to face 
with today's truly overwhelming revolutionary potentiality. The tall, soft-spoken 
native of Trinidad with his Oxford-honed 
accent lectured commandingly on "Revolution and the Third World"; there, if 
anywhere, it seemed obvious to me, are 
the potential "revolutionary subjects" of 
our century. In sharp contrast with the 
highly speculative nature of Krippen-
dorff's approach, Mills piled statistic upon 
statistic to demonstrate the present in-
eluctable structural dependence of the 
Third World on the "metropolitan" coun-
tries, regardless of anyone's good intentions or occasional altruism. Only by 
radically breaking through these international structures themselves, he concluded, could the citizens of these countries seriously alter the conditions of 
their lives and open up the possibility of 
their developing new and better forms 
of community than any that we now 
know. But the chance for repetition of 
the Cuban experience (which Mills 
deemed encouraging but not yet susceptible to a final judgment) depended in 
largest measure, he thought, on what 
revolutionary or counter-revolutionary 
developments the next few years bring 
in the United States. 

So we do have a potential importance 
after all, we who are not ourselves of the 
Third World and who anguish about our 
existential situations and our commitments and our very motives for "intellectualizing" the raw political and social 
realities that surround us. It is true that 
we have no right to this importance, 
which derives mostly from the simple 
fact, as brutal as any tale of atrocities 
committed in the name of revolution, that 
our country and Russia have by far the 
greatest military arsenal in history. But 
denial of the right cannot change the 
fact; therefore, it is up to us to wield whatever influence we can so that the arsenal 
will be used less and less against wretched, 
underprivileged peoples who are trying 
to burst the structural integuments that 
oppress them. And, in order to wield such 
influence wisely, it is well for us to have 
as clear a conceptual grasp as possible--
ranging from the most abstract considerations to all the concrete details with which 
Ken Mills deliberately inundated us--of 
the global society in which they and we 
participate. The possibilities of our success and theirs may not be very great; at 
least two questioners remarked to Mills 
that this lecture left them more pessimistic 
about future change than they had been 
before. But the lecturer himself did not 
find the situation hopeless, and he briefly 
held out the vision, so foreign to a skeptic 
like Miss Arendt, of the evolution of men 
and communities with new, more humane 
values, both in the Third World and, ultimately, in the metropolises as well.


**Reason and Revolution Today and other Reflections**
**Author:  Unlisted**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

And thus the stage is set for Herbert 
Marcuse, who, significantly enough, follows another member of our department, 
Professor Kenley Dove. Dove spoke on 
"Revolution and Recognition," acknowledging the debt that, my colleague rightly 
feels, we all owe to Hegel in this whole 
area of thought. Marcuse is intensely 
aware of that debt: his best-known early 
work, Reason and Revolution, is sub-
titled Hegel and the Rise of Social 
Theory. On December 9, Professor Mar-
cuse is scheduled to speak here on "Reason and Revolution Today." Recently, 
more people have been reading Marcuse 
than ever before; perhaps just as much 
to the point, even more people have been 
reading about Marcuse. Enough newspaper and magazine articles about him 
have appeared recently to make it superfluous for me to add to this literature. 
He is, of course, credited with having 
inspired French, German and Italian students in their 1968 uprisings, though he 
himself has many doubts about the directions that some of the rebels have been 
taking. 

I remember him from several of his 
past visits to Yale: he gives the appearance 
of a gentle, aging German professor. He 
himself, one thinks in looking at him, 
would hardly be capable of leading even 
a mild movement of dissent at a faculty 
meeting. In his person and in his career, 
in short, he epitomizes many of the concerns and the dilemmas that I have expressed in these reflections. 

There are many facets to Herbert 
Marcuse's complex, systematic social 
philosophy. If I had the space, I would 
like to say something about his debts to 
Hegel and Marx, about his optimistic 
revision of Freud in allowing for the possibility of a non-repressive future society, 
about the knotty problems of democracy 
and coercion that he discusses in his essay 
on "Repressive Toleration," and about 
his profound though not unanswerable 
critiques of the methodologies that still 
dominate much of our Academic Establishment. 

But I shall mention only a single point 
that bears most closely, I think, on our 
series and its possible results. It is well 
that Marcuse views the institutions and 
ideologies of advanced western industrial 
societies as being organized so as to intensify "one-dimensionality"—that is, 
the ultimate elimination even of all 
thought about the possibility of a radically 
different way of life from the present 
one. In this connection, Marcuse points 
out how important it is that philosophy 
too should fall in line if the baneful 
dominance of "positive thinking" is to 
be made complete. Historically, according to Marcuse, philosophy's role has 
been quite the opposite: from Plato on, 
even when thinkers like Hegel seemed to 
be defenders of the Establishment, their 
philosophies have upheld the "power of 
the negative," of dissent and criticism, 
by showing that the universe of thought 
and discourse was not limited to the 
actual, given world of the immediate 
present. In short, traditional philosophy 
has always been, in terms of its inner logic 
and its raison d'etre, potentially revolutionary. 

If this is so—and I am inclined to agree 
with the thesis—then the fears that I expressed earlier about interpreting our series 
as a subconscious counter-revolutionary 
plot were groundless. It was not just a love 
of incongruity or a public-relations ploy 
that motivated us to invite Eldridge 
Cleaver (who, in one of the ironies typical 
of our age, was forced to postpone his 
appearance on the advice of his lawyer) 
to appear in the same series with Hannah 
Arendt. They both belonged there, and 
we have been trying to understand better 
exactly why. As philosophers, we are not 
committed to any particular strain of 
political activism nor, certainly, to the 
idea that any old social change is always 
necessarily better than sheer immobility. 
But we are committed to the proposition 
that reason and revolution belong in conjunction, as Marcuse's title would have 
it, rather than in opposition; and we have 
been trying, with the help of our guest 
speakers, to understand this conjunction 
in which it may exist in our own, vastly 
confusing times. 


The Yale Record 
Christmas Number 
Volume XCVIT Number 3 
On Sale December 12 
Take one home!


Yale Symphony Orchestra 
1968-69 Season 
John F. Mauceri, Director 
Third Concert, Sunday, December 15 
Impressionism-The period of the First World War 
Charles Ives: The Unanswered Question & 
Central Park in the Dark 
Milhaud: LeBoeuf sur le Toil 
Debussy: Jeux (New Haven Premiere)


Now through Monday 
1st showing of Jean Luc Godard's 
controversial new film 
"Weekend" with Mireille Darc 
Beginning Wednesday, Dec. 18 Connecticut premiere 
of Franco Zefferelli's "Romeo & Juliet"


KING RICHARD III says: 
"A 
crepe ... a crepe ... 
my kingdom for a crepe." 
There are 110 varieties of 
authentic French Crepes 
REST AWHILE 
CHAPEL SQUARE MALL, 
NEW HAVEN 
Phone 777-5539 
"PLAT OU JOUR" a different delectable entree every day.


"Revolutionary Immortality 
Mao Tse-tung and the Chinese 
Cultural Revolution 
BY ROBERT 
JAY LIFTON 
A unique effort to understand the 
Chinese revolution and its 
leader from a psychological 
standpoint-with an engrossing 
personal portrait of Mao. The 
author is Professor of 
Research in Psychiatry at Yale. 
Cloth $4.95; Vintage Book 
paperback $1.95. 
Death in Life 
Survivors of Hiroshima 
"One of those rare works 
destined to bear witness and 
change the lives of those 
who read it."-SAUL MALOFF, 
Newsweek. "A significant 
contribution to the atomic age." 
-ALDEN WHITMAN, New York Times 
Cloth $10 
Now at your bookstore 
RANDOM HOUSE


**Comment**
**Page number(s): 18**

Comment 
continued from page 2 
Mrs. Kelly: "Alright, I'm saying to you 
that I'm saved, I'm a Christian and I want 
to take my grandchildren to church like 
my mother took me, but they ain't got 
any decent clothes." 

"There's a worker, speaks Spanish, Mrs. 
Cobb or something like that. She's in my 
area, but I don't have her. Some women 
that do, they can't make it today—they 
got babies, she doesn't give them any 
underclothes." 

"These are the sort of things we appointed Mr. Samuels for." 

"Back when you said people got raised, 
I got lowered. I was getting $164 for four 
kids and now it's $140, and my rent and 
water costs $75." 

"I don't know your answer." 

"Well I don't either." 
Mark Zanger


**Letters to the Editors**
**Author: Various**

Letters 
To the Editors: 
Congratulations to Bonnie McGregor for 
her moving and accurate description of 
the way Yale Graduate School turns 
people into products. The process of depersonalization she described with reference to women also mutilates men. The 
Graduate School is a concentration camp 
of the human spirit. As for Joyce Irwin's 
conceited outburst, the only appropriate 
response is: "Up against the wall, father-
fucker!" 
Peter J. O'Connell 
Fourth-year Graduate Student 

A recent comment by Miss Bonnie 
McGregor bemoans the status of women 
graduate students at Yale. Apparently 
our experiences here over a number of 
years have been different than Miss 
McGregor's. We came here for various 
reasons and have stayed and worked because we have found encouragement and 
incentive to develop as individuals, as 
scientists, and as women. 

We do not think that women at Yale 
are viewed only as "bods." It is a natural 
reaction for men and women to notice 
each other and appreciate certain physical 
qualities. We do not find this to be offensive in general or at Yale. 

Maybe Miss McGregor has had some 
unfortunate experiences in her classes, 
but we have never felt that our minds 
were being raped or our psyches prostituted. We have never been "put down" 
in a class for anything for which a male 
graduate student would not have been 
similarly "put down." Whatever discrimination exists at Yale has never been 
detrimental to us. In fact, one of us has 
found the attitudes toward an individual 
at Yale to be less biased by that person's 
sex than in many other academic or professional environments. 

There are, certainly, problems for 
serious women graduate students, both 
practical and personal problems. We feel, 
however, that these problems arise not 
specifically from the policies and attitudes 
of the Yale Graduate School but from 
more general causes. 
Carol Coke 
Miriam Steele 
Department of Geology and Geophysics 

I was fascinated by Mary Wright's article 
on Mao and the cultural revolution, but 
there are a few things about the whole 
area of psychohistory that I just don't 
understand. First of all, psychohistory 
does not seem to be historical. All of 
Robert Lifton's works—and they seem to 
be defining what psychohistory is—are 
concerned with contemporary events. 
Rather than history, the whole psycho-
historical process seems to be aimed at 
making political science more interesting; 
denuding it of boring numbers, computers 
and games to determine the future in 
order to understand what is really happening in the world. Mary Wright made 
Lifton's work look like a terribly important new field of study and what is 
needed now is a place to go study it. 
Frederick Kavalier 
London School of Economics 

Please insert the classified advertisement 
given below in the next issue of your 
publication: 
Malcolm Boyd (Rev.) is alive and sick and 
living in New Haven and doesn't know 
how to spell "covenant". Fritz Liebert. 
My check in the amount of $4.60 at the 
rate of 20¢ per word is enclosed. 
Herman W. Liebert


Classifieds 
20¢ per word 
Ads may be mailed to: Classifieds, The New 
Journal, 3432 Yale Station, New Haven, 
Connecticut, 06520. 
The AWA 8 Committee awards Bruce S. the 
Purple Shaft. 
The New Journal staff would like to express 
warm thanks to Robert Charles Lebugle, 
Restauranteur, San Francisco, California. 
Lilo: How many times do I have to tell you 
my shoe size is 11? 
Kuki: I hope you had a happy birthday. 
Bumbi. 
Evamaria is looking for a good-looking, 
cultured, intelligent male. Call 731-1446. 
Lost: one woman's motorcycle jacket (size 38) 
at the railroad station. It had side zippers. 
Reward. 712-1343. 
Rosemary Ann Fahy was married to Joseph 
Christopher Maynard in St. Peter's R.C. 
Church last Saturday. Congratulations. 
For Sale: one motorcycle jacket, especially 
suitable for women. A real steal. 776-8629 
For Sale: 1962 Volvo. sports model, beautiful 
body, fine tuned motor. Contact 562-0236 or 
865-2493. 
I collect figured boules. The stranger the 
better. No kidding, if you have any, I would 
be interested in buying them. No kidding. 
Call Dave after 6:00 P.M. 387-3698. 
Dave: it is your turn next time. If you forget, 
we won't. 
Samantha: thanks for the pictures, sorry we 
couldn't use more. V. 
Freddie: I'm really sorry about that and will 
try never to swear again. JLJPN



**Title: For My People**
**Author: Margaret Walker**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
For My People 
by Margaret Walker 
An important reissue 
When this book of poetry won the Yale 
Series of Younger Poets award in 1942, 
Stephen Vincent Ben~t . then Editor of the 
Series, said In his Foreword : " Straight· 
forwardness, directness, reality are good 
things to find In a young poet. It is rarer 
to find them combined with a controlled 
intensity of emotion and a language that, 
at times, even when it is most modern, 
has something of the surge of biblical 
poetry. And it Is obvious that Miss Walker 
uses that language because it comes 
naturally to her and is part of her 
inheritance ... . 'We Have Been Believers,' 
'Delta,' 'Southern Song,' 'For My People' 
- they are full of the rain and the sun that 
fall upon the faces and shoulders of her 
people, full of the bitter questioning and 
the answers not yet found, the pride and 
the disillusion and the reality . ... She has 
spoken of her people so that all may 
listen." 
Because in 1968 another generation, both 
black and white, is eager to listen, Yale 
University Press takes pleasure in making 
this volume available once again. 
Margaret Walker's voice deserves a new 
hearing in these new times. 
cloth $5.00; paper $1.65 
Yale University Press 
New Haven and London


**Title: SAVED**
**Author: Edward Bond**
**Page number(s): 20**

American Premiere of 
Edward Bond's 
SAVED 
Directed by 
Jeff Bleckner 
"SAVED is not for children, but it is for 
grown-ups, and grown-ups should have 
the courage to look at it; and if we do 
not find precisely the mirror held up to 
nature in which we can see ourselves, 
then at least we can experience the sac-
ramental catharsis of a very chastening 
look at the sort of ground we have pre-
pared for the next lot." 
Sir Laurence Olivier 
DECEMBER 1968 
Thur 
Sat 
Mon 
Wed 
Fri 
Tue 
8:30 
2:30 & 8:30 


**Title: YALE PLAYS**
**Author: Various**

YALE PLAYS: 
A Program of Student-WriHen & Student-Produced Works 
David Epstein's 
They Told Me That You 
Came This Way 
Directed by Michael Posnick 
Two imprisoned men who wait · in occupied 
America. 
Anthony Scully's 
The Great Chinese 
Revolution 
Directed by Ali Taygun 
A protest against orthodoxy and compulsion. 
6 
10 
Thur 12 
14 
16 
18 
20 

