Publication date: April 8, 1983
Volume: 15
Issue number: 6


**MASTHEAD:**
- Publisher: Ed Bennett
- Editor-in-Chief: W. Hampton Sides
- Designer: Tom McQuillen
- Business Manager: Barbara Burrell, Robert Moore
- Managing Editor: Jim Lowe
- Production Manager: Hilary Callahan
- Associate Business Managers: Jane Kamensky, Peter Phleger, Vanessa Sciarra
- Associate Editors: Paul Hofheinz, Tina Kelley, Morris Panner, Laura Pappano, Katherine Scobey
- Associate Production Managers: Alex Savich, Christianna Williams
- Staff: Jim Ayer, Eduardo Cruz, Darren Gersh, Larry Goon, Lisa Hintz, Katie Kressmann, Mike Otsuka, Lauren Rabin, Tony Reese, Marilynn Sager, Andy Vasey, Lelia Wardwell, Lisa Yun


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- Letters
- Comment
- NewsJournal
- Major stories
- So, where are you going? - Andy Court
- The writers of spring
- Toxic splash?
- Kagan's content
- Survivors confer
- Selling science - Mike Otsuka
- Taiwan's private eyes: A question of student surveillance - Morris Panner
- To remember Solidarity - David Sullivan
- Confessions of an academic dropout - Jack Lechner
- The music makers - Gordon M. Henry
- Theatre
- Supershows: Are there limits? - Laura Pappano


**Title: Silent Dissent: Taiwanese Students at Yale**
**Author: Morris Panner**
**Page number(s): 1**

ewourna 
Volume 15 number six 
Silent Dissent: 
Taiwanese Students at Yale 
by Morris Pan ner 
O!t u' nwud 
W 
~'eu ..u, 
(JI v .. 
• 'lW•ct ' 
l 
''() l~f".Utf I' ,, 
Apri I 8, 1983 
()0;~90 1.:) 'ouWH ... , 
.......,, ... ' tut 
~ 
.... ,..,, "''.l 



**Title: So, where are you going?**
**Author: Andy Court**
**Page number(s): 16**


On~ senior's tlwughls on lM art of kaving.



**Title: Selling science**
**Author: Mike Otsuka**
**Page number(s): 24**


Th~ perils and promises of Yak:r new partnership 
with industry. 



**Title: Taiwan's private eyes: A question of student surveillance**
**Page number(s): 30**


An inrtstr.~ation mto ihf' char~ts that Taiwan's 
~ovf'Tnmtnl is Pa.yin~ Tarwantst t:raduatt studmls 
at Yalt to inform on thtrr jtllow studtnls. 



**Title: To remember Solidarity**
**Author: David Sullivan**
**Page number(s): 36**


Th~ N~ Havm Commrtt« in Support of Solidarity 
now possusts 1M on{;: /mown colkction of ilkgal 
Polish artwork and photographs in 1M world. 



**Title: Confessions of an academic dropout**
**Author: Jack Lechner**
**Page number(s): 42**


A fUr tm y~ars in tht English DqJo.rtmmt, Rog~ 
F~w kaves 1M classroom for a diff~mtfonn of 
teaching. 



**Title: The music makers**
**Author: Gordon M. Henry**
**Page number(s):  [Page number missing]**


YtS, Vrrginia, rock iz rollu a business, aruJ ~haps 
in no city is this mort tTUL than Nro.~ Haem. 



**Title: Supershows: Are there limits?**
**Author: Laura Pappano**


The Speed and s~eener Todd luw~ cluzlkng~ 
1M exptrtaJioru of tluturt aJ Yab-and both in 
1M samt uttk. 



**About this issue**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
About this issue 
In our cover story this issue, we take a 
look at an extremely sensitive topic-
the question of student spies on Yale's 
campus. Over the past three months, 
TNJ associate editor Morris Panner 
has interviewed many foreign stu-
dents, here and elsewhere, who are 
deeply concerned about the practice of 
surveillante on American campuses. 


These are people who fear they cannot 
speak freely or critically about their 
governments without e ndangering 
their political status back home. They 
are convinced that a small number of 
paid student informants arc keeping an 
eye on the university and are peri-
odically 
filing 
reports 
about 
any 
suspicious political activity. 

At the center of the controversy IS 
Taiwan, a country which now has over 
20,000 citizens studying in the United 
States. 
At countless universities-
among them, Stanford, U.C. Davis 
and the 
University of Chicago-
Taiwanese have claimed that monitors 
are harrassing and 
sometimes 
threatening them. Panner found a 
numbe r 
of T aiwanese graduate 
students at Yale -as many as a half 
dozen- who have made similar ac-
cusations of surveillance. 

In researching the story, Panner 
confronted some special problems. 
First, many of Panner's sources did not 
speak English, and a large portion of 
the written evidence- including num-
erous Chinese newspapers and official 
Taiwanese documents- had 
to be 
translated before he could even begin 
to piece the information together. Se-
cond, very few Taiwanese students 
were willing to talk about this question 
at all, and fewer still were willing to 
reveal their own names. Third, Panner 
found that the few who were willing to 
speak publicly about the surveillance 
question often had axes of their own to 
grind. Because Taiwan's security is so 
intimately tied to good relations with 
the U.S., and because so many Tai-
wanese a re studying here, a whole con-
stellatio n 
of political 
factors 
and 
loyalties come into play. And finally, 
because of the sensitive nature of the 
topic, Panner had to consider carefully 
several legal questions. For invaluable 
advice in this area, we would like to 
thank Frank Cochran, a law partner of 
one of our directors, Peter B. Cooper. 
Needless to say, Panner invested a n 
enormous amount of time into the 
research. We think the whole issue is a 
most serious and disturbing one, a 
matter which the university should 
take a hard look at. 

On a more personal note, we'd like to 
say something 
about one of our 
graduating seniors, someone who has 
been an integral part of the magazine 
since its rebirth in 1981. Former 
editor-in-chief Andy Court helped 
establish the new magazine two years 
ago, givin ~ it its editorial identity. He 
edited The New journal with careful 
eyes, a nd he listened to a nd advised all 
of us. H e is a special person. We11 miss 
him. 

Look fo r us in September. 


**Letters: The Alternative Tour**
**Author: Elizabeth J. Shaw**

The Alternative Tour 
To the Editor: 
In "Another New Haven" (The New 
Journal, February 25, 1983), Katherine 
Scobey was right to say that the Alter-
native Tour does not directly decry the 
wealth 
of particular 
individuals. 
However, to look at the contrasts of 
poverty and wealth in New Haven 
neighborhoods is to see structures of 
inequality and injustice. We cannot 
help but decry such structures if we are 
committed to attacking the root causes 
of poverty. Any given community has 
a limited amount of material wealth. ff 
one 
group has 
a disproportionate 
amount of that wealth, this implies 
poverty for man y of the rest. It is un-
fortunate that Katherine Scobey did 
not devote more attention to this in her 
article. Failure to grasp this point leads 
to a misunderstanding of both the tour 
and, in my view, the city. 
Elizabeth J. Shaw 
Co-coordinator, Center for 
Human Rights ·and Economic J ustice 


**Letters: Toob gets no respect**
**Author: Bennett E. Howser**

Toob gets no respect 
T o the Editor: 
H ow disheartening that many still 
hold prejudices against inner tube 
water polo ("D as Toob," TN} February 
25, 1983). But more dishearteni~g 
than this is that so many people sull 
hold prejudices against anyone who 
doesn't share their own priorities and 
lifestyles. Perhaps when the varsitY 
athletes quit stereotyping non-athlete~ 
as "small, fat, pallid-faced people, 
then we non-athletes will stop referring 
to them as "'big, dumb, insensitive 
jocks." 
Small, fat, pallid-faced, 
completely wimped out 
and sincerely yours, 
Benne tt E. Howser 


**Letters: Dissident misfits**
**Author: M. Nina Belfor**
**Page number(s): 5**

Dissident misfits 
I was surprised by how seriously and 
uncritically Lelia Wardwell treated the 
subject of "The Art School on Trial" in 
your last issue. It seems clear from the 
article's presentation of this group of 
self-proclaimed "aesthetic dissidents" 
that their concerns stem much more 
from a personal clash with the Art 
School than from any specific aesthetic 
ideal. It is a pity that these individuals 
felt their creativity constrained by the 
"controlling elite" of the Yale School of 
Art, but this is an inevitability at any 
school and in any department. I would 
pose, however, that the "aesthetic 
dissidents" do not even have a case, 
because their work does not substan-
tiate their complaints with a truly 
responsive or original alternative. 

I am not offering an unqualified 
defense of the Yale School of Art, for it 
is a small school that perhaps lacks 
more variety of approach than other 
larger an institutions. But the school 
does not pretend to be otherwise. As 
far a!. the School's "Euro-centric" ap-
proach is concerned, it is, as Barnaby 
Fitzgerald suggested, not only preten-
tious, but also dishonest for the school 
to lay claims to an Asian or African 
aesthetic sensibility which it docs not 
possess. 

The creative isolation of which these 
dissidents complain seems to me to be 
self-imposc.-d. It is the role of an 
academic institution (and the Yale art 
community does center around it 
school) to offer the individual a specific 
~t _of formal guidelines; it is the in-
dtvtdual's duty to understand and then 
respond to them. As these dissidents 
have completely side-stepped these 
guidelines, rather than reacted to them 
constructively, they rob their crusade 
of either 
ideological or artistic 
credibilitv. The "crits" to which Bird 
B~enner . o~jt'cts so violently and, I 
mtght add, incoherently. provide an 
arena for this responsiveness. My only 
c<-?mplaint of them, as opposed to 
Btrd's, is that ther are not even specific 
enough, and that students do not take 
enoush advantage ol this opportunity 
to exclmngc ideas and yes, to provoke 
each. other (though not in the ag-
gresstv(' '>cnse). For, I am afraid that, 
with my Western orientation, I feel the 
purpose of art is to provoke thought 
and emotion. 
M . Nina Belfor 
Stiles '83 


**Letters: Devil worship**
**Author: Susanne Fusso**

Devil worship 
As a lover of both the form and content 
of Sterling Memorial Library, I wish 
to respond to your disturbing article, 
"The Underworld Around Us," by 
Geoff Hayward and Tom Feigelson, 
(TN}, 
December 
1, 
1982). The 
authors state that the building is "a 
monument to its creator," but it has 
always seemed to me to be a monu-
ment to craftsmanship, to an attention 
to details that has all but disappeared 
from public buildings. Far from irrita-
ttng or depressing me, the glimpse of 
one of Sterling's whimsical creatures 
invariably cheers me. It has never been 
my feeling that the "satire" is a con-
temptuous or cynical attack on the 
scholarly community from without, for 
my own sense of the ludicrousness, as 
well as the loftiness and sanctity of the 
scholar's calling is too highly developed 
to allow any reaction other than sym-
pathy with the satirist. The scholar 
who has never seen the words "You are 
a joke" staring back at him from the 
page has simply not been a scholar 
long enough. 

The issue of maturity is certainly 
relevant here; the authors' fear of 
sculpted devils seems a bit immature, 
as though they had seen too many 
demonic-possession 
movies. 
If the 
depiction of demons is a sacrilege, the 
greatest artists of the Western world 
have all been frightful blasphemers. 

The paranoia and self-importance of 
your article reache'> its climax in the 
following passage: .. Above the most 
westerlY set of ~~indO\"s (of TrumbuJJ) I 
therc i~ a monke>· and an ass. \~'hat 
were thev trving to makt': out of us? 
Which w~ s~p~scd to bc:st character-
ize thc students of Trumbull College?" 

[ hope and trust that the average 
Yale student is not so solipsistic as to 
assume that every detail of his college's 
architecturc is meant to express or 
symbolize his own personality. 

No, not even prim objections of the 
1931 Harkness Hoot can convince me 
that Sterling is not a great building in 
its own heterogeneous, rambunctious 
American way. Yale is an American 
university, not Oxford or Cambridge, 
God be praised. I only hope that the 
authors someday become less "inward-
looking and hostile," and learn to love 
the poor little demons. 
Susanne Fusso 
M.A. 1977 


**Letters: Insensitivity?**
**Author: Richard Golden**

Insensitivity? 
Lindsay Rodes, m her article on the 
kitchen 
under Commons, (TNJ, 
January 21, 1983) in an attempt to il-
lustrate graphically the large size of an 
oven, writes that, "Five or six people 
could fit inside." The juxtaposition of 
this statement to a story in the same 
issue on the Holocaust Survivors' Film 
Project sickened me. Rarely have I 
ever been confronted with such an ap-
palling editorial blunder. 

This is not all that I found objec-
tionable; tht' comparison should have 
been deleted even were the food article 
to have appeared alone. In ovr time, to 
speak of an oven in terms of its capaci-
ty for human beings demonstrates an 
acute lack of either awareness or sen-
sitivity to the Nazis' systematic mass 
murder of Jews and Gypsies, and, 
more generally, intellectuals, the han-
dicapped, the clergy and dissidents. 
For many, the image of an oven with 
people inside forcefully recalls these 
horrors. 
Richard Golden
Editor's response: »-nile TNJ slulru your 
concun about casual rtfn-mas ro 
th' 
holocaust, u·r uriously douht th4l tJu phrase 
which you cite betray~. as >'Ou s~)l. an acut' 
insm ritivity. Thr writer was attonpting to 
drscn"be m huTTUJn tnms somrlhing that is 
vrry.· larf!.e. That is all. 


**Comment: So, where are you going?**
**Author: Andy Court**
**Page number(s): 6**

So, where are you going? 
I spend much of my time these days 
sending 
off chunks of myself to 
strangers, hoping they will take an in-
terest, and wondering what I'll be do-
ing this time next year. Freshman 
year, the one thing I could · always . 
worry about if I didn't have any impor-
tan t problems or papers due was, 
"What am I going to do with my life?" 
But now that I'm standing on the 
brink, looking at the void through my 
·mailbox window, I'm beginning to see 
that leaving Yale, though sad, and job 
hunting, though anxiety-ridden, are 
not the greatest causes of concern. The 
important issue: What do I do, sud-
denly, when I find I am vulnerable 
once again, when the paths are not so 
well-paved and the support systems are 
no longer supporting me? How do I 
begin to think about myself? 

Perhaps the worst thing that can 
happen to any of us is that we can 
begin to believe we are the packages we 
present to others-simple, reductive 
resume-s to be accepted or rejected, 
wanted or not wanted, period. Even 
the various images we project in inter-
views are packages. They are not us, 
only fragments of us. Yet if others do 
not want to see more, we question not 
just our image, but our whole being.· 

I remember visiting Yale as a high 
school senior and talking with other 
prospectives who had also been ac-
cepted here. Most of us were less in-
terested in where people came from 
than in what "they did." Were we all so 
well-rounded and involved because 
that satisfied us, or was it because we 
knew that was the package the admis-
sions otlicers wanted? Though not 
everyo_ne 
thought 
so narrowly, 
I 
detected a common conviction that we 
were there because of our records, not 
because of something less easily ar-
ticulated but more substantial- per-
sonality, in a most basic sense of the 
term, the totality, the whole. 

I wonder about the person who was 
just as qualified for Yale as I was but 
who received a rejection letter in the 
mail. He might be stronger than I am 
right now because he learned that 
regardless of what others decide, he 
could succeed on his own terms 
wherever he went. Maybe he realized 
early what I am only realizing now-
inward qualities that may not come 
across on paper, but which will make 
all the difference at some unforeseen 
moment in some unforseen place. 

Having learned to slice, dice ancf 
package ourselves for everything from 
seminars and summer internships to 
graduate schools and jobs, we can all 
too easily be led to believe that apply-
ing is the only way to succeed. Tunnel-
vision sets in. We begin to worry that 
we won't be good enough for the nar-
row tracks we pursue, viewing Career 
Advisory Service not as a starting 
point, but as a place to cram for life. 
And what if we don't get the intern-
ship, or get turned down by our top 
three choices for law school? T he 
spring comes and our roommates are 
winning fellowships and people are 
getting things left and right, and some 
of us aren't getting anything this time 
around. It becomes difficult to believe 
there's nothing wrong with us if we're 
applying for things and not getting 
them. 
Andy Court

Just as bad as the rejection is the lack 
of destination. We have been taught by 
our parents and teachers to make plans 
and pursue them, and that works well 
until we carry it too far and discover 
we cannot enjoy the present unless all 
aspects of our lives are on track. Fear 
of confusion, need for resolution of any 
vacant spaces or weak links in our 
lives. This view ignores what happens 
so frequently: People go places and do 
things for very good reasons, then fall 
into situations they never expected, 
then look back on it as if that was the 
way it was going to happen all along. 
But we don't yet know what was go-
ing to happen all along, and that is one 
of the reasons for all the activity here, 
the time-race and the tension. So many 
o f us are looking forward, uncertain of 
what we will find, We seek through our 
exertion to obtain some assurance that, 
wherever we are headed, we can get to 
where we want to go. Every moment 
spent on campus is informed by the 
knowledge of what we really should be 
doing, based on an invisible network of 
assumptions about where we might 
want to be, years from now. 

It's easier for me to turn on the 
achievement mode and say, "I'm going 
to work hard this week, so I can have 
fun later," than it is for me to take that 
moment at any given time. The fallacy 
is not only that I can choose the time 
when I'll be happy, but also that I can 
mete out my life in pure, productive 
blocks of either work or play. Again, 
_the rushing forward, all hopes and all 
effort focused on the tape stretched 
across the track in the distance.



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
A friend ran for weeks with the goal 
of getting in shape to run to the top of 
East Rock. But on the day she ran to 
the top she discovered the parking lot 
littered with trash and motorists blar-
ing music. I have made the same trip 
myself and fou nd the best part is an 
unforseen bend on the shaded side of 
the h ill, long before the summit, a 
dark, cool passage in the woods. 

Some of us spend four years here 
with the back-of-the-brain fear of not 
having somewhere equally safe and 
prestigious to go after college. After 
high school, people asked, "Where are 
you going?" Yale, they had all heard of 
that spot. What more could an uncer-
tain high school senior have asked for 
than a destination with all the right 
connotations? Now, if we become ad-
d icted to those connotations, the cost of 
the next fix is becoming a package once 
again. And if we believe we are the 
package and little else, then we should 
devote every available moment to im-
proving its appearance so it will im-
press those who receive it. A Yale 
education becomes nothing more than 
a race to gather more credentials 
before the next round of applying. 

But the one brand of applying we 
seem not to have mastered is applying 
our studies to our lives, connecting 
what we know to what we are. Most 
professors do not begin their lectures 
by saying, "Okay, there you are in 
you r scats and here's the topic of 
today's talk and here's how the topic 
relates to your life." We are expected to 
meet the materia] haJfway, swimming 
the emotional and intellectual distance 
from our scat to the podium. 

Spring of senior year, I find myself 
drifting and dreaming. Instead of 
focusing on Darwinism at 9:45 a.m., 
I'm flailing in the waves of more im-
mediate concerns. Did I make enough 
mailings? Is it worth it to drive up to 
Boston for that interview? And where 
will I live? And will I be happy? I find 
my future needs and desires far more 
compelling than the ceaseless struggle 
of the species here and now. 

Often distracted, often enchanted, 
sometimes both at once, I have loved 
this place at the same time I've hated 
myself for taking it and everything else 
so seriously. And now in the last 
weeks, I find myself attempting to 
memorize the texture of a stone waJI or 
map the way the shadows fall, or end 
my last article for a publication that 
means so much to me by just writing-
goodbye . 

• 
Andy Court, a smior in &ybroolc, isjorrno 
tditor-in-chiif of TN] . 
The- opinions c-xprTssc-d in chis KCtion arT 
choK of the- individual ... rice-rs TM l\'w.•Jtnll1fld 
c-ncoura~ lc-uc-rs ro rhc- c-doror. andcommc-nr 
on Yale- and~~ Ha,c-n i •u~ \~nee- co 
Morri~ Pannc-r. Edirorials, 3432 Yale- Station. 
Ne-w Haven. CT 06520. or c-oncacr him at 
432-2955. All leuen for public-acion muse 
include addrTSs and "rtnaiUrT. 
The New J ournaJ thanks: 
Anne Applebaum 
joyce Banerjee 
Matthew Bartholomew 
Chris Berti 
Laura Boyer 
Sta" Collins 
Andy Court 
Peggy Edersheim 
Temma Ehrenfeld 
&rah Greenhill 
Lynn Cuggenheimer 
D®t Hanson 
Laura Hoffman 
&m K irby 
j ono Ltach 
Kate Levin 
Lisa Levine 
Norman Oder 
Catherine R inaldi 
Raj &ndhu 
Amy Stevens 
Corinne Tobin 
A ndi Vayda 
Kevin Walsh 
Amy Wei/ 
Sylvia Yu

**Title: The writers of spring**
**Author: W. Hampton Sicks**
**Page number(s): 8**

"So tell me, Bruce, do they always have orgies 
on the beaches in Fort Lauderdale?" 
"No, sometimes they move into the hotels." 

It must have seem ed like strange 
dialogue coming in on· the TV set, 
especially at 8 in the morning. There 
on the screen was NBC's Bryant 
Gumbel 
talking 
with 
two 
young 
gentlemen wearing goofy flowered 
shirts. The two guests on the Today 
show that March morning were talking 
from Florida about a project that has 
occupied much of their time since they 
graduated from Yale last May. They 
were two journalists who had come to 
America's breakfast table to culminate 
a promotional blitz for their recent 
book, The Rites of Spring: A Student's 
Guide to Sprin.e Break in Florida (Arbor 
H ouse, $4.95). 

Bruce Jacobsen, now a reporter for 
the M iami Herald, and Rollin Riggs, a 
photojournalist working 
in 
New 
H aven, are known throughout the land 
as experts-of a sort. Since J anuary 
they've been canvassing much of the 
East Coast and 
the 
Midwest, 
preaching the gospel of sun, surf and 
sex at universities from Chicago to 
Atlanta to Washington, D.C. They've 
done scores of TV appearances, radio 
talk shows, magazine interviews and 
autographing sessiou:s at bookstores 
throughout the country. 

Their 126-page guide to hot spots in 
the Sunshine State is the only book of 
its kind on the market, and, not sur-
prisingly, it has received a great deal of 
attention in the national press now that 
spring has arrived. Articles about the 
book have appeared in the Boston 
Globe, 
the Chicago 
Tribune, 
Washington Post, Time, Playboy, Seven-
teen, and Us, and stories have run over 
both the U P I and AP wire services. 

Whether people are buying it for its 
utility or simply for its novelty, The 
Rites of Spring is faring well by anyone's 
standards: the book has already sold 
over 20,000 copies and has gone into a 
second printing. Now, Jacobsen and 
Riggs are compiling research for an 
updated and revised second edition to 
appear in the fall. 

8 The New Journal/April 8, 1983 
Rollin Riggs and Bruce Jacobsen 
The Rites of Spring is aimed at the 
over 1.5 million college ·students who 
head for· the Florida beaches every 
spring break with high libidos and low 
budgets. The guide tells you where the 
cheap bars are, how to pick up dates, 
how to move in a meatmarket, what to 
wear on the beach- that sort of thing. 
It tells you how to eat raw oysters and 
how not to sunburn. It explains how to 
avoid hangovers and the law. It is a 
book written by students, for students, 
and from page one it is unashamedly 
sophomoric. The preface announces 
that the book is dedicated, among 
other things, to "Mary Sue, for a 
wonderfut night in Daytona (good luck 
with cheerleading)." Says Playboy: 
"This is good advice on how to get 
what you're looking for during spring 
break in Florida. These guys have 
been there." 

Whether or not Jacobsen and Riggs 
have "been there," quite a few Florida 
residents say t~eir book is pure gar-
bage. "I think your book is the most 
April 8, 1983 
disgusting thi n g I've ever heard of," 
said one pertu rbed M iami resident 
during a phone-in radio talk show. "It 
should be banned." A number of 
public officials from some of the areas 
listed in the book- Fort Lauderdale in 
particular -have criticized Jacobsen 
and Riggs for inaccurately portraying 
their fair cities as hotbeds of vice and 
immorality. "Fort Lauderdale," reads 
the Rites of Spn·ng, "has as much dignity 
as pro wrestling or roller derby, but 
provokes the same illicit sense of 
pleasure ... As far as we can tell, 
there is no form of behavior considered 
unacceptable here." To that, Fort 
Lauderdale City Commissioner 
Virginia Young responded: "T hat's the 
sort of thing Yale students can be ex-
pected to write." 

"It's a dirty job," R iggs told Bryant 
Gumbel at the close of the Today show 
interview 
late March. " But 
somebody's got to do it." 



**Title: Toxic splash?**
**Author: Anne Applebaum**
**Page number(s): 9**

While Jacobsen and Riggs were stir-
ring up some dirty business on na-
tional television, Yale crew was churn-
ing up some of their own. Along with 
the rigors of spring training, Yale crew 
tearr.s may have a new problem to con-
tend with: toxic waste. While the crews 
were rowing in Tampa ovP.r spring 
break, the Connecticut Departm.:-nt of 
Environmental Protection (DEP) iden-
tified a chemical waste dump in Derby, 
1.5 miles down the H ousaton ic River 
from the Yale boathouse. As of now, 
the D EP has found eleven whole bar-
rels containing chemicals; more wor-
risome is the undetermined number 
which are smashed and leaking. 

Environmentalists were surprised 
but not shocked by the discovery of 
toxic waste in the Housatonic. This 
area is one of the most industrially 
polluted regions in the country. The 
Federal governm en t has given Con-
necticut $100,000 in emergency funds 
to find out just how dangerous this par-
ticular site is and what can be done 
about it. Although environmentalists 
believe that the crew is not directly en-
dangered by this site because the waste 
is downstream from the practice area, 

DEP scientists are still unsure of how 
this site will affect the surrounding 
area. 

Without clear evidence of a health 
hazard, the coaches were not overly 
concerned. "We just row across the top 
of it," explained Dave Vogel, men's 
lightweight coach. "As long as it 
doesn't dissolve our shells, the water 
quality 
is not of great concern. 
Besides, it hasn't caught fire yet." H e 
added that most Eastern rivers where 
Yale competes are probably more 
polluted than the H ousatonic, pin-
pointing Columbia's H arlem River. 

M ost 
oarsmen 
weren't 
worried 
either. "Although I'm not very u pset 
about this particular incident, it is a lit-
tle scary to think that we are splashing 
that water all over our faces," said 
men's lightweight 
captain C harles 
McGlashen. 

The most disturbing aspect of this 
incident is that no one may be able to 
do anything about it. "More sites are 
being discovered daily," said Stephen 
H itchcock of the DEP . "The problem 
becomes one of priorities." 


**Title: Kagan's content**
**Author: Jim Lowe**

How about a thirteenth college? New 
buildings carefully designed and not 
overcrowded could add a new dimen-
sion to the residential college system. 
Don't get your hopes too high, because 
at best, this idea will be only one of a 
number of recommendations the Com-
mittee on the Future of the Residential 
Colleges will be making in its report to 
be released next week. 

"Overall the process has worked out 
much better than I had feared," com-
mented Professor Donald Kagan, the 
committee's chairman. "We've become 
a kind of family, this committee of 
ours. We've found the whole process 
v~ry worthwhile, and hopefully others 
Will lind it so." Since we last reported 
on the Kagan Committee members ("A 
Look at 
Residential 
College 
System," TNJ December 1, 1982) they 
have completed all their research and 
are in the process of linish:>lg up their 
report to the President. "I think we're 
going to come out with some fairly pro-
vocative things," said Kagan. "And I 
think that is good. We have got to 
make the university stop and thi~k 
about some of these issues and make a 
plan to handle them in the future." 

In addition tO calling for an end to 
the present overcrowding in the col-
leges, the committee will call for 
substantial changes in the roles of the 
college fellows and masters. "Most of 
the recommendations hinge on our 
belief that the colleges have to play a 
larger educational- not just academic 
-role in the future," Kagan explained 
to a Yale College Council Forum two 
weeks ago. 

What effect will the report have on 
the future of the residential college 
system? "Well, we think we are .making 
recommendations for the Pres1dent of 
Yale," said Kagan. "We think we have 
no power to actually make changes, 
and we are delighted by that.~ 


**Title: The survivors confer**
**Author: Andy Court**

Leon Weinberg was one of the first 
holocaust survivors to contribute his 
experiences to the collt>ction of over 
250 tapes in Yale's Videoarchive for 
Survivor T estimony ("The survivors 
speak," TNJ, January 21, 1983). Now 
at the American Gathering of Jewish 
Holocaust Survivors in Washington 
next week. Weinberg will make a sim-
ple but expensive gesture. 

Weinberg is co-owner of a frozen 
dough business in Hamden and a sur-
vivor of the Lodz ghetto in Poland. 
"The only thought in them days was 
hunger," Mr. Weinberg said during 
his videotaping session two years ago. 
Now for a gathering of people who 
knew the same suffering, Weinberg is 
baking thousands of loaves of bread to 
be distributed at the final ceremony. 

At first he had expected to bake 
about 3,000 loaves, but registration for 
the conference has already reached 
10,000. including 85 survivors from 
the New Haven area. 

Laurel Vlock, co-founder of the vid-
eoarchive. will be one of those in at-
tendance. She will co-host a televised 
report on the conference for PBS on 
April 13 at 10 p.m. In addition, she 
will film three survivors at the con-
ference, show several tapes from the 
archive and run a seminar about the 
project in order to get more survivors 
involved. 

Meanwhile, in New Haven this 
Sunday, 
Holocaust Remembrance 
Day. Yale Professor Annette lnsdorf 
will speak at a service at the Holocaust 
Memorial in Ede-ewood Park. 

Vlock expects some poignant mo-
ments at the Washington conference. 
With the help of an improved com-
puter indexing system. survivors will 
now be able to look up the names of 
relatives and friends who might be at-
tending the conference. As for Mr. 
Weinberg. he expects to spend about 
$6,000 on his own gesture. "In the 
ghetto, we used to eat black, hard 
bread," he said. "Ali i wanted was to let 
people know the bread was gi'>·en to 
them by a fellow survivor." 




**Title: Selling Science**
**Author: Mike Otsuka**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
In one of the more biting passages of 
an essay on Ivy League schools which 
appeared in New Republic last year, 
Paul Fussell quotes President Giamat-
ti: 

The University is the guardian of the 
imagination that both defines and 
asserts our humanity. 

The University is not only the guar-
dian of that human capacity, it is also its 
triumph

Thus the University, 
rooted in history, opened to every new 
impulse, insists on its centrality to 
culture and on its uniqueness. 

"You'd hardly gather," responds 
Fussell, "that the place runs a hockey 
rink and produces the most efficient 
stockbrokers on Wall Street." 

To some extent, Fussell_ has exposed 
a schism which is becoming more ap-
parent in Yale's identity: the determin-
ation to increase corporate and federal 
financial support while at the same 
time maintammg independence and 
integrity. Perhaps no one more aptly 
symbolizes this schism than Giamatti 
himself. Giamatti, the English pro· 
fessor and humanist, is also president 
of a multimillion dollar corporation. 

Giamatti, who is wont to expound 
upon the virtues of academic freedom 
and a liberal education, recently spoke 
to the question of industry's role in the 
university at a conference in Philadel· 
phia. At the conference, he joked that 
before becoming president, "my of-
ficial contact with corporate America 
peaked with the annual ordering of 
textbooks for my classes." 

During his five-year term, however, 
Giamatti has taken a long, hard look at 
the proper role of research support at 
Yale from the private sector. He has 
begun to articulate guidelines and 
principles which will affect the Univer· 
sity for years to come. 

Giamatti believes that Yale has an 
overriding obligation to share the 
results of its research with society. He 
~hinks the public wiiJ gain from the in·


dustrial application of basic research 
conducted on campuses. But he be-
lieves that the University must uphold 
certain principles- independence, free 
exchange of ideas on campus, freedom 
to publish- at the same time that it ac-
cepts corporate money to support its 
research. "The academic imperative to 
seek knowledge objectively and to 
share it openly and freely," he has said, 
clashes with "the industrial imperative 
to garner a profit, which creates the in-
centive to treat knowledge as private 
property." 

While some universities have had 
close relationships with business for 
decades, it was not until recendy that 
university-corporate relations have 
held such promise- and peril- for 
Yale and many other campuses. In the 
late seventies, a number of corpora-
tions discovered that they could benefit 
from interaction with universities just 
as the federal government had been 
doing for years. Recent breakthroughs 
in such fields as genetic engineering at 
universities alerted business to the 
possibqity of forming partnerships 
with academia and marketing such 
research. In 1980, for example, Exxon 
struck a controversial $8 million deal 
with M IT for combustion research. 

Other arangements which have at-
tracted attention include a $6 million 
grant from Du Pont to the Harvard 
Medical School for genetic research 
and a ten-company, $7.5 million con-
tribution to Stanford for a new com-
puter center. 

Yale's relationship with business is in 
a formative state. It was not until early 
1982 that Yale began to assert itself 
more fully in the corporate world. In 
February of 1982, the University 
entered into a three-year, S 1.1 million 
agreement with Celanese, a manufac-
turer of chemicals and fabrics, to con-
duct research in the composition and 
synthesis of enzymes. In lnformalion 
Pl~as~ Almanac's 
1982 
chronology, 
Yale's agreement with Celanese was 
~ighlighted as a subsidy which has 
aroused academic controversy." 

"'ur faculty (in biotechnology) be-
came the industry overnight," asserted 
Joseph Warner, director of Yale's 
Grant and Contract Administration. 
•They were surprised to suddenly find 
themselves 
approached 
by 
multi-


"Our faculty became the In· 
dustry overnight." 

million dollar corporations and newly 
forming firms asking them to become 
involved in the commercial applica-
tions of their research." 

Although Yale has been able to at-
tract industry support in other fields, 
the most striking financial successes 
have come in the fields of biology and 
medicine. This fall, for example, Yale 
and Bristol-Meyers consummated a 
five-year, $3 million agreement to 
fund research in the development of 
new anti-cancer drugs. 

Provost William Brainard singles 
out 
the 
Office 
of Cooperative 
Research, established over the sum-
mer, as the most concrete example of 
Yale's renewed determination to ce-
ment ties with industry. 

Perils and promises

In the midst of corporate America's 
renewed inrerest in academia- both 
locally and nationwide- Giamatti has 
not been alone in voicing concerns 
over the potential dangers which might 
stem from this new relationship. A 
number of professors at Yale, through 
advisory committees and other ave-
nues, have become deeply involved 
with these issues. 

At an October meeting of the Yale 
Chapter of the American Association 
of University 
Professors (AAUP), 
faculty members voiced concerns over 
the increased role of industry at Yale. 
They also voiced alarm at recent deci-
sions of the Reagan administration, in-
cludin~ cutbacks in research support in 
virtually every area save those with 
military applications. 

Recalling a time during the 1960s 
when the federal government funded 
research in the social sciences with 
clandestine or military applications, 
History Professor David Montgomery 
remarked that universities strapped for 
funds might be "tempted to get back 
into the type of research that most of us 
were glad to get rid of in the first 
place." 

Montgomery added: "It's clear that 
there is a great deal of research money 
available from the Defense Depart-
ment, not all of it for the hard sciences 
by any means. But it's not just research 
on how to overthrow the government 
of Chile that concerns me. Such 
research in general puts a damper on 
the Universiry because it must be kept 
secret." 

Stanford President Donald Ken-
nedy, who visited Yale in the fall, 
spoke of the perils and promises of new 
avenues of research which are opening 
up with industry and the government. 
Recalling the lessons of the Manhattan 
project, he warned of the dan~ers in-
herent in certain types of research. 
"The drive to solve the problem fills the 
field, and the rest retreats," he said. 
"You have to put other things into 
focus and make a serious effort to 
foresee 
consequences (of the 
research) "'Genetic engineering is seen 


by many as a potential Pandora's box 
for this decade. 

At the AAUP meeting, some faculty 
members suggested that a greater 
dependence upon external financial 
support might distort the teaching and 
research mission of the university. In 
the field of biology, one professor sug· 
gested that important but less "mar-
ketable" research in fields such as 
evolutionary biology might be neg-
lected in favor of an emphasis on bio-
technology or other more "marketable" 
fields. Another suggested that the 
University, in the hope of attracting 
more funding from the current admin-
istration, might be inclined to hire 
more classical economists in a depart-
ment dominated by Keynesian econ-
omists. 

Provost Brainard believes that there 
is a "good deal of concern in the faculty 
and administration (about such 
issues), enough to insure that interface 
with corporations does not seduce us 
away from our primary mission of the 
advancement and transmission of ... 
precisely those areas of knowledge and 
culture which are not created by the 
market system." 

Brainard contends that a faculty 
member's ability to attract outside 
funding has no bearing on the granting 
of tenure. But in the sciences in par-
ticular a professor's research has a ma-
jor bearing on tenure decisions. "And 
sometimes it's hard to make a distinc-
tion because those who are good at 
research are likely to be successful in 
getting corporate or government 
grants as well." The provost em-
phasizes, however, that those who 
make appointments to tenured posi-
tions do not even have information 
regarding the professor's success in ob-
taining grants. 

The case of MIT

M IT, which perhaps epitomizes close 
university-industry ties, has grown ac-
customed to answering criticism about 
the ethics of such links. "Many of to-
day's questions about the role of in-
dustrv in university research," com-
mented MIT President Paul Gray, 
"arc the same that were asked about 
Government sponsorship (following 
World War II)- questions about the 
relevance of a 
proposed area of 
research to the essential mission of the 
university, about potemial constraints 
upon the direction of the research, and 
on possible pressures for immediate or 
practical results." 

George Dummer, who is Warner's 
counterpart at M IT, recalled that dur-
ing the debate over government's role 
in universities years ago, "McGeorge 
Bundy said that if universities are con-
cerned that the federal government will 
warp the values of the university, they 
should be concerned over university 
policies and their faculty, not the 
government. We're faced with the 
same problems now. It's a matter of in-
ternal standards." 

And the internal standards of MIT, 
claims Dummer, are not very different 
from those of Yale. "Some of our 
specific practices may be different, a11d 
our style and traditions are different," 
he said. "But I can't recall a philo-
sophical area in which we and Joe 
(Warner) are at a difference." Warner 
concurs with Dummer's assessment.


**Yale, MIT, and the Pursuit of Corporate Funding**
**Author: Mike Otsuka**
**Page number(s): 13-14**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The general philosophies of Yale, 
MIT, Harvard and Stanford are very 
similar. All believe that a regulated 
partnership 
between 
industry and 
academia will benefit society, and all 
place limits on the extent of any delay 
of the publication of information a corporation may impose on the university. 
Many professors here would cringe 
at any attempt to place Yale, the liberal 
arts 
institution 
rooted 
in 
the 
humanities, in the same league as 
MIT, the undisputed leader of technology transfers. When Yale professors, and sometimes administrators, 
discuss the University's effort to form a 
policy on university-corporate relations, they often point to MIT as an 
example of "what Yale doesn't want to 
become." In an interview with the Yale 
Daily News, Biology Professor Clement 
Markert, who heads a faculty committee 
on university-corporate relations, 
remarked that the role MIT plays in 
technological development is "not 
suitable for Yale." 

Despite similarities in stated principles, MIT 
and Yale differ considerably on a whole range of items 
from outward appearance to internal 
policies. While Yale's pseudo-gothic 
buildings bear the names of colonial 
heroes, MIT's campus is dotted with 
buildings donated by Exxon, Campbell Soup, Texas Instruments and 
George Eastman. Last year, Yale 
garnered approximately $3.4 million 
from industry, while MIT netted nearly $20 million. 

Living dangerously
Giamatti emphasizes caution and reflection as he helps formulate a policy 
which will guide Yale for the next few 
years. Many faculty members in the 
natural 
sciences, 
concerned about 
Yale's reputation in these disciplines, 
think that Yale is not aggressive 
enough in its dealings with industry. 
Even Markert, who has been described 
as one of the most cautious professors 
in the natural sciences when it comes to 
reaching out to industry, believes that 
Yale's administration is a bit too hesitant. 
"One does not construct a policy out 
of a referendum," responds Giamatti. 
"These principles are not meant to apply to just one segment of the University. 
I want principles which will apply 
to 
everything from 
philosophy to 
physics." 

MIT's administrators convey a different spirit. "We have an aggressive 
faculty," Stuart Cowen, Vice President 
for Financial Operations, commented. 
"They don't sit on their hands (when it 
comes to obtaining grants and contracts). You either live dangerously or 
conservatively. 
We've always been 
willing to take chances." 

In recent years, Warner and others 
have detected a more aggressive attitude among Yale's professors. "A 
growing number of faculty members in 
the sciences are now on the same wavelength as MIT with regard to taking 
risks," commented Warner. 

Warner cautions, however, that the 
risks involved when aggressively pursuing outside support can be substantial. Even an institution with a track 
record such as MIT's has been burned 
on occasion. In the early seventies, 
MIT 
created an interdepartmental 
Energy Laboratory with an emphasis 
on fossil fuels and energy conservation. 
During the energy crises and the 
Carter administration, the lab prospered. But the Reagan administration 
has shifted the emphasis away from 
conservation 
and 
towards 
nuclear 
energy. Consequently, 30-40 people 
linked with the lab were laid off last 
fall. 

In terms of corporate support, Yale 
not only lags behind such science-oriented universities as MIT; but 
universities such as Harvard and Stanford, closer in tenor to Yale, are also 
able to outstrip it in this regard. 
"Stanford's entrepreneurial spirit is 
impressive," said Warner. "There's no 
comparison (between Yale and Stanford) ... but I'm not sure some of the 
things they do would make sense here. 
There's a different environment, different faculty and different traditions." 
He mentioned that Yale is also 
limited by geography. 
Boston and 
Cambridge, for example have a much 
larger core of industries than New 
Haven. Stanford lies at the edge of 
California's Silicon Valley. 

Principles over profit
Many of Yale's strongest departments 
are ones which are the least likely to 
benefit from increases in research support. The social sciences, for example, 
have been hit hard by recent cutbacks 
in federal funding. They face little prospect of recovering their losses through 
grants and contracts from industry.


The humanities, which have never 
benefitted significantly from outside 
financing, face virtually no prospect of 
reaping any of the benefits of business's 
increased interest in universities. Departments such as engineering which 
have been affected the least by cutbacks during the Reagan administration have a much better prospect of 
securing grants or contracts from industry. 

In the strictest sense, however, universities do not "profit" from government 
or corporate research support. 
The grants are considered reimbursements for the cost of the research and 
often do not cover the entire cost. Yet 
these grants support graduate school 
students who 
serve 
as 
research 
assistants, and faculty members occasionally replace a portion of their 
university salaries with grant money. 
Overhead costs- ranging from heating 
bills and library upkeep to salaries for 
administrators- are also covered. 
These grants and contracts, therefore, 
contribute greatly to the size and 
growth of a university, especially at the 
graduate level. MIT, for example, 
continues to prosper and has grown 
almost without pause since World War 
II largely because of government and 
industry support. 

At a time when faculty members 
have voiced concerns over Yale's commitment to the physical sciences, 
Giamatti and Brainard say that Yale is 
striving to strengthen these departments. 

According to Giamatti, "It has been 
an active consideration and priority 
from my point of view and Provost 
Brainard's to do the most possible for 
the physical and natural sciences ... 
not because of any prior neglect but 
because it is vital to the health of the 
whole university, including the humanities." 

But Brainard stressed that Yale's 
renewed commitment to the sciences 
does not stem from a desire to attract 
more corporate and government dollars. "Yale became strong in the 
humanities and social sciences during a 
time when the federal government was 
pouring enormous amounts of money 
into the sciences," he commented. "I 
hope we can do more to strengthen the 
sciences, but Yale has not followed the 
market to determine emphasis in the 
past. Don't expect it to in the future." 


**Title: Silent Dissent: Taiwanese Students at Yale**
**Author: Morris Panner**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Silent Dissent: 
Taiwanese Students at Yale 
Coordination Council for North 
American Affairs In Boston. 
When Yang Huan-shi stepped off the 
plane at Taipei's international airport 
on J anuary 5, government agents were 
waiting in the terminal. O nly minutes 
after he had returned from an exten-
ded stay in the United States, Yang 
found himself in the custody of the 
Garrison Command, Taiwan's major 
security service. The Command hus-
tled him from the airport and accused 
him of carrying funds destined for 
Communist forces on the Island. Yang 
was in fact carryin~ a large sum of 
money, $10,000 in checks signed by 
his son-in-law John Shih, a 1980 Yale 
Ph.D who now lives in New Jersey. 
While Yang told the agents that Shih 
had given him the money for personal 
expenses, the Command was con-
vinced that Shih had collaborated with 
Communist C hinese forces in the 
United States and had provided his 
father-in-law with money for subver-
sives in Taiwan. 


For some reason, the government 
didn't release the news of Yang's arrest 
for another two weeks, and, a month 
later, it had mysteriously dropped the 
most serious of the charges. The gov-
ernment (the Kuomintung or KMT) 
claimed that it had never heard of the 
$10,000. The KMT insisted that the 
newspapers had fabricated the whole 
idea of funds from Communist forces; 
the Yang incident was just another case 
of irresponsible journalism. No longer 
a state security threat, Yang was con-
victed by the KMT's military court of 
corresponding with Taiwanese Com-
munist agents in Mainland China and 
was only sentenced to three years of 
"re-education," a rigorous course in the 
works of Sun Yat-sen and Jiang•Kai-
shek. 

One month later, Denny Liang (a 
psuedonym) rested his elbows on the 
conference table in a college seminar 
room and asked the question which 
perplexed not only the 35 Taiwanese 
graduate students at Yale, but also the 
United States government: "How did 
the K MT know what John Shih had 
been doing at Yale?" Liang leaned for-
ward and answered his own question: 
"The KMT must have someone watch-
ing us on campus." 

Liang, a Taiwanese graduate stu-
dent here, is not alone in his suspic-
ions. A number of other Taiwanese at 
Yale-as many as a half dozen-have 
claimed that they cannot speak freely 
here. They believe that someone from 
the KMT will report on them, and that 
if they criticize the government they 
will risk endangering their families and 
their careers. In fact Newsweek, relying 
on these same anonymous sources, 
went so far as to claim quite definitive-
ly that there were three "student spies" 
~t Yale working for the KMT ("Spies 
m the Classroom" May 1 7, 1982). 

Recently Taiwanese at other univer-
sity have openly stepped forward. "I 
can promise you that surveillance goes 
on in every campus in the country, in-
cluding Yale," Lin Kuo-ching told The 
New journal. A graduate student at the 
University of North Carolina at Ra-
leigh, L in was involved in a contro-
versy over KMT surveillance last fall. 
"I know that I cannot go back to 
Taiwan safely. What more proof do 
you need?" 

Nor is this accusation without sup-
port from informed members of the 
Yale community. "It's an accepted 
assumption among those of us in the 
I I 
A7 
Transh.tion of t.,r F::!pol"t Fo,.. und by 00 l nfomants 
m lklfwrsfty ~Anouns fn thr U.S. 
1'~1"t 1 . 
t.nalys1s of the sf tu.~tion wi tJiin U.e o;aq~us 
1. Tctal ni.I!Oer of s t udents fn the school 
z. Tctal no. of f aculty and st!ff fn tho school 
J. 
Total 110. of CMnrle (a) faculty (b) studrnts 
C. 
Tot.ll ftO. of st~nts -.'ho are f rcll Taiwan 
S. Total ftO. of students .t>o are fi"C8 Hong Kong 
' •u·t D. 
Jnfo..atfOft about the eneafn 
6. Total 110. of s! ucients wl:o are froro the l ocal area 
7. 
Total •· of student s llflo are patriotic 
8. Total 110. of studlrftts who are neutral 
t. Total 110. of stlldetlts llflo are p~=-t st 
:;a. Total • · of studlilts who are p~Tafwan-Incle!l*nGrnu 
n . l.ssen-t of tJie current s ftuatiOft bet:w~ us attd the ~r!Wi es 
Photostat of a report form used by KMT student 
Informants. [Congressional Records} 
Yale Taiwanese students: no one spealrs of "spies," rather 
of " monitors," "officers," or "agents." 

China field that surv'eillance takes 
place," said Mark Sheldon, Associate 
Director of the Yale-China Association, 
a non-profit organization involved in 
student exchanges between Yale and 
Mainland China. "Generally any loud 
apologist for the KMT is suspect, but I 
don't have any evidence that sur-
veillance goes on at Yale. It is a stan-
dard practice on other campuses I've 
been on, and I assume that it is here, 
too." Indeed, students have made ac-
cusations of monitoring on campuses 
around the country, such as MIT, 
Stanford, the University of Florida, 
U. C. Davis and the University of 
Chicago. 

An exercise In diplomacy 
Although other nations such as South 
Korea, Libya, Iran and the Philippines 
allegedly 
practice cameus su_rveil-
lance, Taiwan has without question 
received the most publicity for this ac-
tivity. There are approximately 20,000 
Taiwanese studying at universities 
around the country. At Yale, there are 
35 Taiwanese graduate students. Most 
of them are residents of the same 
dormitory, H elen Hadley Hall on 
Temple Street. Like the majority of 
Taiwanese students in this country, 
most of them at Yale are enrolled in the 
hard science or engineering depart-
ments. One of them is on leave from 
the defense ministry in Taipei studying 
chemical engineering. Many of them 
will return and enter Taiwan's boom-
ing free-market economy or its emerg-
ing defense industry. But some will 
probably remain in the States, receiv-
ing lucrative positions from U.S. in-
dustries. All of these students will say 
that they have never taken part in stu-
dent surveillance, and most will deny 
that any monitoring goes on at alL 

Then again, the controversy over 
KMT surveillance is a topic which few 
Taiwanese students here like to talk 
about. It is a loaded issue which easily 
lends itself to propaganda and misun-
derstanding. Ev~n phrasing the right 
question can be an exercise in diplo-
macy. No one speaks of"spies." Rather 
one delicately refers to "monitors," "of-
ficers" or at the very boundary of pro-
priety, "agents." The issue of 
surveillance goes well beyond ethical 
questions about academic freedom and 
the University's responsibility for the 
security of its foreig.n students. It also 
touches upon issues which are central 
to the existence of Taiwan. Questions 
of surveillance carry a host of political 
implications, both for Taiwan's inter-
national relations and for the Island's 
fragile internal affairs. Accusations of 
monitoring have jeopardized U.S. 
arms sales in the past and have stirred 
student unrest on the Island. In short, 
the debate over student monitoring at 
Yale 
provides 
a 
microcosm of 
Taiwanese politics 8,000 miles from 
Taipei. 

More than anything else, the KMT 
fears the Communist Chinese. But on 
U.S. campuses the KMT has had 
another worry: The Taiwanese In-
dependent Movement. An outlawed 
group in Taiwan, the Independent 
Movement is based primarily in Japan 
and the United States, and is dedicated 
to overthrowing the present govern-
ment on the Island. It seeks to establish 
an independent nation which is con-
trolled neither by the KMT nor the 
Communists. The Movement empha-
sizes the distinction between those on 
the Island who are descendents of 
native Taiwanese, as opposed to those 
who are descendents of the Mainland 
Chinese who emigrated to the lslan·d at 
the end of the civil war when the Com-
munists came to power in 1949. 

A $500 "stipend" 
Denny Liang insisted upon meeting in 
a college seminar room where no one 
would overhear. Liang asserted that 
there were two or three of his fellow 
Taiwanese students who would report 
him to the KMT if he made anti-
government statements. "The worst 
part," insisted Liang, "is that you never 
know if your criticisms of the govern-
ment have gone too far. You never 
know if they have reported you until 
an agent comes from the Garrison 
Command and visit<> your family 
warning them about your activities. 
Or worse, until you return to the 
Island and are refused a job because of 
the reports your employer has about 
you. I have a friend who graduated 
from the engineering school here, and 
his employer at first refused to hire 
him. He didn't understand why until 
he saw the employer's private file on 
him, which contained reports provided 
by KMT monitors at Yale." 

**Title: Th'e Propaganda War**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Th'e Propaganda War 
One month ago Taiwan Gong Luin Pao, [left] the of-
ficial newspaper of the Taiwanese Independent 
. Movement, printed an article announcing Panner's 
investigation of the surveillance question and tak-
ing credit for supplying the author with critical in-
formation. The same week Mei Li Dao, [right] 
another Chinese language journal sympathetic to 
the Independent Movement, published an editorial 
praising Panner's investigation. The headline 
• 
.~f. I ij fT ltJ-f). 6 - Jll! 'f. 
#1 . tfi :J -Jttd',-if •P"fl{~
ltJ...illl 
il.vJ rd 11 . ~r ;_ /u -t t-1 G.~· r.. •J 11-t) 
, .i!.1 -.t! tet'1 .f.. f? ;Ufit.. . . 
. ':!f J.). {~ #uk!~t'l, il t r; ~ ~ 
-#. tfJ tr . ie 4 1~ 1' "A ti !J ~~!If _:t. ..t • l 
1-. f , tt ..{ ~ J; o~rj:J:. tfJ..il. , tf#-.~f. *A 
. it 1. r; ~;1•1 . .f. -.t ~i . ~Jtt~l 
1 "';f.tt" . . f J ~ tt , if: ;d fe1f1 tl{· 
~ii t!J.~r. . 1. ):_ ~ t4 . 
(underlined) reads: "Yale University campus press 
will chase and attack [the KMT] by the wings of 
victory." 

After these two articles appeared, Parmer re-
ceived long distance phone calls from students at 
universities around the country, none revealing 
their names, who claimed that they could prove the 
existence of KMT spies on their campuses and at 
Yale. 

A photostat of an issue of the Boston Tong Shing, 
(November 11 , 1977). The above article was a 
regular column "Mao Ch'ung" (Worms of Mao Tse· 
tung) which was written by pro-KMT students at campuses throughout the country and then com-
piled into one large column. This issue featured a 
denunciation of Cheng Pei-kai, a visiting professor 
in the History department at Yale, and his wife 
Hsu Chi-lieng. The story denounced the pair as 
communists and libertines. 
The New Journal/April 8 , 1983 19


**Title:  (Untitled Article)**
**Page number(s): 20-21**

"I can promise you that 
surveillance goes on In 
every campus in the coun· 
try, Including Yale." 

Liang tells a story of KMT activities 
which anyone associated with the 
government will flatly deny: He says 
that the KMT recruits the student 
monitors from the party ranks before 
they leave for the United States. If a 
party member agrees to participate, he 
undergoes a week-long training session 
in which he learns basic surveillance 
techniques. Once he arrives in this 
country, he agrees to submit a regular 
report to a regional office know!] as the 
Coordination 
Council 
for 
North 
America~ Affairs, which for New Eng-
land is located in Boston. The KMT, 
in return, agrees to pay the student an 
extra "stipend" of $400-600 per month. 

"I know a student at Yale in engineer-
ing who has been made an offer. H e 
was offered $500 a month, but he 
refused it." 

"You can always tell a monitor," he 
said. "They have money to travel and 
for big phone bills. How else does a 
student get so much money?" 

The Coordination Council at 
Boston's Government Center is located 
in a new and spacious office, tastefully 
furnished with Chinese screens and 
oriental rugs. It would pass for a 
typical Boston law firm, except for the 
guard at the door and the neatly-
arranged Taiwanese newspapers and 
pamphlets displayed on the end table. 
The pamphlets range in scope from 
"Ceramics 
in Taiwan" 
to "Better 
Fighter Planes for a Free China." 

Students filter in and out of the office 
throughout the day, sitting at a large 
dctsk in the reception room to renew 
their passports. Since 1979, when the 
U.S. and Taiwan broke diplomatic 
relations, the Coordination Council 
has taken the place of a consulate. 

A thin and circumspect man named 
S.C. Lin d•rects the office. R eluctant 
to speak about the issue of surveil-
lance, Lin avoided sensitive questions 
with a studied caution. H e dismissed 
all further questions with a perfunctory 
official statement. "Students are here 
to study," he insisted. "They study 
hard. That's all that they have time to 
do." 

Not everyone believes that all the 
Taiwanese here are so studious. Denny 
Liang and several others have claimed 
that one of Yale's former monitors, 
who has since returned to Taiwan, was 
20 The New Journal/April8, 1983 
a 
graduate student m 
Chemistry 
named Wang Li-dao. These students 
said that Wang had openly admitted 
that he was an agent for the KMT. 
Over the nine-year period that he was 
here, Wang allegedly threatened to file 
reports on a number of his fellow 
graduate students. Since Wang left last 
year, these students have strong suspi-
cions about one other student. But 
since no major incident has taken place 
here since Wang left, their suspicions 
remain unconfirmed. 

While Wang was at Yale, there was a 
great deal of political conflict. One stu-
dent who ran into trouble with the 
KMT then was a graduate student 
named Cheng Pei-kai, who is now a 
visiting professor in History. In the fall 
of 1978, the KMT indefinitely sus-
pended the passports of both Cheng 
and his wife because of their alleged 
leftist beliefs. 

There is little doubt that someone 
was reporting something to the KMT 
about the Chengs while they were at 
Yale. In the months before the KMT 
suspended the Chengs' passports, a 
pro-KMT magazine published by Tai-
wanese students in America called the 
Boswn Tong Shing (Boston Communique) 
had repeatedly denounced the Chengs 
as communists and, on one occasion, 
made indiscreet allusions to their 
private lives. In an article from a col-
umn called "Mao Ch'ung" (Worms of 
Mao"), an anonymous author claimed 
that he had looked over his "records" 
about Cheng's relationship with his 
wife. He asserted that they were well 
known for their "shocking behavior" 
while dating at Yale, and that they had 
become leftists "because it was fashion-
able." (Boston Tong Sing, November 11, 
1977) Cheng denied all the magazine's 
accusations, but, because of possible 
danger to his family still in Taiwan, he 
refused to comment on who could have 
given the KMT such information. 

But students have not been the only 
ones who have charged the KMT with 
monitoring. The United States gov-
ernment has also suspected that some 
form of surveillance takes place. The 
1981 death of a Carnegie-Mellon pro-
fessor named Chen Wen-chen on the 
Island increased their suspicions. The 
summer after the incident, the House 
Asian and Pacific Affairs subcommit-
tee held hearings on Chen's death. 
Having cited evidence that Chen and 
others must have been watched, the 
House ultimately passed legislation 
that would ban arms sales to any coun-
try which conducts organized surveil-
lance on American campuses. 

Ridiculous rumors 
But for all the accusations of KMT 
surveillance, there is also a large group 
of Taiwanese Yale students who openly 
deny the charges, and who describe life 
at Yale in a vastly different way from 
those who tell stories of suspicion and 
intrigue. 

"Such 
rumors only 
hurt 
my 
country," said C.T. Chang, a third-
year Chemical Engineering graduate 
student who in 1982 chaired the 
Chinese Student 
Service, 
Yale's 
Taiwanese club. As for Yang Huan-
shi's arrest in Taipei, Chang has a sim-
ple explanation: "Yang was arrested 
because he is a Communist. The news-
papers in Taiwan printed the letters 
that he wrote to Chinese Communists. 
The KMT had been watching him for 
a long time. How did they get the let-
ters in the Mainland? Well, that's 
where our intelligence is." 

Chang denied that any students are 
on the KMT payroll. "The idea of one 
of us receiving money to report on a 
fellow student is only an insult," he in-
sisted. Opening the bottom drawer of 
his desk, he pulled out a large black 
notebook, a record of all his activities 
as chairman. He flipped open the book 
and pointed to a photo-copy of a letter 
written and signed by a group of 32 
"Taiwanese students and scholars at 
Yale" denying Newsweek's claims. 
"They had no evidence to support their 
charges," said Chang. "Maybe they 
print the article to discourage public 
opinion against arms sales to Taiwan. 
Maybe they were listening co Indepen-
dent Movement propaganda. What-
ever the case, I nor anyone of my 
friends had ever heard of such things 
until we read the article. We were very 
surprised." Newsweek never printed the 
letter. 

Chang also denied that the Coor-
dination Council is a center of sur-
veillance. "Such a charge is ridiculous," 
claimed Chang. The officers of the 
Coordination Council occasionally


**Title: Student Surveillance at Yale?**
**Author: Morris Palmer**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Espadrilles $10.00 
Hello Boutique 
In/'/ dothint[ 
82 Whitney Avenue 
New Haven 
776-0435 
22 The New Journal/April 8. 1983 
ate Secretary of the University is in 
charge of foreign student affairs. "But I 
don't have any evidence. We do know 
that Iran was heavily involved in stu-
dent 
surveillance 
in 
this country 
several years ago. This is certainly not 
of that magnitude." 

"Although we certainly don't en-
courage it, we couldn't do much to stop 
it," added Wilson. "The University has 
forms which foreign students can fill 
out so that we won't release their 
names. But, basically we just ignore 
the whole issue of other countries' 
politics being brought onto campus." 

"The Idea of one of us 
receiving money to report 
on a fellow student Is only 
an Insult." 

But not everyone agrees with this 
"common sense." T. P. Ma, an elec-
trical engineering professor and ad-
visor to the Chinese Student Service, 
adamantly denied that monitoring, in 
any form, ·takes place. "Nothing like 
that happens here," said Ma. "I'm close 
to many of the Taiwanese students on 
campus. If anything was going on, I'd 
know about it. I don't know where the 
others have gotten their information." 

The case of Yang 
Amidst all this debate, Yang Huan-shi's 
arrest at the airport in Taipei and the 
implication of his son-in-law, John 
Shih, pose some serious questions. 
How did the KMT come to suspect 
John Shih in the first place? (Shih is 
not Taiwanese, but an American who 
married a Taiwanese student while 
they were both in graduate school 
here.) And how, if at aJI. does the 
KMT keep track of its 
nation's 
students who study in this country? 
The official party newspaper, Chung 
Yan Ri Pao in Taipei, reported on 
January 31 that during the trial the 
government presented evidence that 
John Shih had contacted people with 
.. special political leanings" while he was 
at Yale. This presumabl): was a 
reference 
to Chinese Communist 
agents. The KMT also originally 
charged that Shih had signed checks 
for $10.000 with money provided by 
these same Communist elements.


**Title: To remember ...**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 24**

To remember ...



**Solidarity in New Haven**
**Author: David Sullivan**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
dozens ot unpublished photographs In the Art ot Solidarity Collection. 
David Sullivan 
"We were very vocal," remembered 
David Taylor. "We harrassed a lot of 
people. We sold a lot of buttons to peo-
ple who didn't want to buy buttons." 
Taylor is proud that he harrassed peo-
ple over the last year and a half, 
because harrassment achieved some 
important goals for a small group of 
dedicated students he has been work-
ing with since December of 1981: The 
New H aven Committee in Support of 
Solidarity. 
Chances are Taylor stepped up to 
you sometime last semester out in front 
of Yale Station and asked you if you 
were aware of the workers' plight and 
the scarcity of food in Poland. Chances 
are he or one of his co-workers tried to 
sell you a red and white Solidarity but-
ton to stick on your lapel. They made a 
special point of being obnoxious, and 
by anyone's standards, they succeeded. 
Taylor doesn't spend as much time 
on the pavement as he did last fall. In-
stead. he and the Olher members are 
supporting- Solidarity in a very quiet 
way-collecting art. The committee 
now possesses the only known collec-
tion of Solidarity artwork in the world. 
Irena Gross, a Polish dissident living 
in New Haven who works close)>· with 
the committee, has accumula•ed a vast 
number of illegal Solidarity items 
smuggled out of Poland- anti-gov-
ernment 
poster s, 
undeq~round 
ne\vsletters, 
political caricatures, 
satirical counterfeit 
bills and un-
published photos taken after the im-
position of martial law. 

Much of the art is political in nature. 
and many of the drawings and engrav-
ing-~ are the work of amateur artists in 
prison 
for 
their affiliation 
with 
Solidaritr. For example. there are 
numerous mock postage stamps. used 
envelopes 
illegally 
circulated 
amon~ political prisoner... \\hich play 
off \\ell-known symbolic imagery in 
Poland. The stamps include variations 
on a number of themes. like the ea~lc 
(Poli<>h 
St.ttehood). 
the cro'" (the 
Catholic Church). the crow (the military 
junta) and the anchor (syntbol of 
hope related to the shipworker: -.trike 
in Gdansk) -:..tany of the pieces in the


**Solidarity Week**
**Author: David Sullivan**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Solidarity Week
Taylor, Casarella and Russell, all 
Morse sophomores, are roommates. 
"The fact that the three of us room 
together keeps things together," 
Russell said, "and our room acts as a 
kind of nucleus for the organization." 
But keeping shop in a single dorm 
room has sometimes created problems. 
Like the time earlier this year when the 
three students had to store dozens of 
boxes of donated clothes in their room 
in the Morse basement. The boxes 
overflowed into the hallway, creating a 
fire hazard. So they had to hide all the 
boxes from the fire marshal when she 
inspected the room. 

The committee 
has arranged 
numerous lectures and panel discus-
sions over the year and a half of its ex~ 
istence, but the largest and best-
attended of these, by far, was "Solidari-
ty Week" in January 1982. A rally 
drew about 250 students and featured 
speeches by Jan Gross, Slavic Lan-
guages and Literature professor Victor 
Ehrlich, History professors Ivo Banac, 
David Montgomery, 
Wolfgang 
Leonhard and two Solidarity leaders. 
Other professors and leaders of the 
Polish labor movement conducted a 
panel and a workshop. The Polish poet 
Czeslaw Milosz, a Nobel laureate, 
read his work. 

For most people in the West, 
Solidarity is a movement that seems 
next to impossible to oppose. "It's not a 
left-right issue," argued lvo Banac, a 
"Somehow we have to keep 
the situation in the public 
eye." 
hjstory professor who has been actively 
involved with the committee in the 
past. "It's a perfectly black-and-white 
issue." Only one group has ever 
seriously questioned Taylor's reasons 
for supporting Solidarity- the Spar-
ticists (a Communist group that also 
supported the Soviet invasion of 
Afghanistan). 

While everyone seems to support 
Solidarity, nobody seems to support it 
for exactly the same reason, said 
Taylor. To conservatives. it is often a 
weapon against Communism and the 
Soviet Union. To socialists, it is a step 
closer to true socialism. Others support


---

Solidarity because they are Polish or 
because they are Catholic. But to most 
people, it simply represents a humani-
tarian movement of an oppressed peo-
ple. "I see it more as a constructive 
social movement and not as a foreign 
policy weapon," said Taylor. "I mean, 
Reagan sees it as a club which he can 
use to beat the Soviet Union." 

" The political creativity of 
Solidarity was accompanied 
by tremendous artistic 
creativity." 

Despite this universal appeal, people 
often wonder whether Taylor's brand 
of activism in the community can 
make any impact on the real situation 
in Poland, especially now that Solidari-
ty has been outlawed and driven 
underground. Are the efforts of the 
New 
H aven Solidarity community 
making a difference where it ultimately 
counts? "Short of com~itting acts of 
terrorism, there is very little we can do 
here at Yale," admitted Taylor. "We 
have to deal with the government as a 
legal entity. We're not going to have 
any effect on whatjaruzelski does. The 
global reality is such that we can't have 
an influence in a great sense People 
ask, 'What the hell are five people at 
Yale going to matter?' The impact v .. e 
can have is that we can keep people 
here thinking about it. And the sym-
bolism, I say, is crucial." 

T he most effective response that the 
West can show Solidarity, Sanae 
believes. is to demonstrate widespr<"ad 
public support. And. he said, uni,·ersi-
ty campuses are important centel"i for 
generating that support. "Somehow ''e 
ha\'e to keep the situation in the public 
ev·c." Sanae o;aid ... This kind of support 
'~ill prevent Polish authoriti<"s from 
demoralizing the workers by telling 
them, 'Stop all of this nonsense- no-
body outside really cares."' 

"We arc combatting public 
amnesia," said Taylor. "People forget. 
T here are a lot of people hert· ,,ho 
think Solidarity was just Lech \\alesa, 
and that it is all over now. And orne 
people don't e,·en kno" who Le(·h 
\\'ale.• sa is.~ 

• 
Dat•td Sulln·an is a sophomort in Ezra 
Stilts 


**Profile**
**Author: Jack Lechner**
**Page number(s): 30**

Confessions of an academic dropout 
Ferlo: " I don't want to SfHind my life writing tomes."



**Title: Roger Ferlo: A Maverick at Yale**
**Author: Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"You have to take what I say about 
Yale with a grain of salt," said Roger 
Ferlo. "In some ways, I'm disillusioned 
with it." The popular English professor 
had much to say about Yale as he sat in 
his book-lined penthouse in Ezra 
Stiles. But he was not complaining. 
Rather, he was explaining his decision 
to leave Yale and academia for a dif-
ferent form of teaching. After 10 years 
here, Ferlo is planning to become an 
Episcopal priest. 

Ferlo might well have ended up in 
the priesthood anyway-as a teenager, 
he lived the life of a "sanctuary rat," 
singing in the choir and playing the 
organ. Yet his frustration with Yale 
certainly 
hastened 
his 
change of 
career. Roger Ferlo is not shy about 
saying that he is disappointed in the 
University: in the careerism of the 
faculty and in the strictures of the 
tenure system. But he is quick to stress 
that his decision is not a break in his 
career but an extension of it. "I'm clos-
ing off a ten-year parenthesis and 
resuming the sentence," he explained. 
"It feels much more continuous to do 
this than to be an academic." 

Over these 1 0 years, Roger Ferlo 
has been something of a maverick in 
the English Department. In faculty 
meetings and in public, he has criti-
cized 
its 
ivory-tower 
isolation 
in 
general and its rigid tenure process in 
particular. "In the best of all possible 
worlds, tenure would be abolished," 
Ferlo said with a sigh. "Only if you 
produce these printed pages are you 
worth anything: Without a published 
book by 29 or 30, in this league, you 
might as well give up." A mischievous 
look crept into the 31-year-old Ferlo's 
eyes. "I didn't play by the rules. If you 
spend your time on teaching, you tend 
to get penalized. If you teach well now, 
you're not likely to stay teaching very 
long." 

If there is a physical stereotype for 
English professors, Ferlo does not con-
form to it. With his longish black hair, 
closely-cut beard, and short, wiry 
build, he looks more like Ringo Starr 
than Mr. Chips. Only his large brown 
eyes seem appropriate for a professor. 
They are alert, playful and sometimes 
a triOe detached, as if each new thing 
Ferlo learns causes him to adjust a 
complicated model in his mind. 

And Ferlo's manner is hardly that of 
an absent-minded professor. Talking 
to him, one is struck by his awareness 
and his involvement in the conversa-
tion. Words have an almost physical 
substance for him. He launches them 
in rapid volleys, speeding them to their 
destination with dramatic gestures. He 
listens with his body, tensing and curl-
ing in his chair in response to what is 
said. He speaks clearly, often poking 
fun at himself. Ferlo's aim is not to im-
press the listener with his knowledge 
but to share it. In short, to teach. He 
takes his teaching seriously and is 
often dismayed at the way it seems to 
get lot_t in the academic world. 

The glitz place 
"For many years, I was very bitter 
about Yale," Ferlo said. "Not so much 
what it did to me, but what it did to 
others. It's the profession itself: from 
being a calling to teach and to learn, 
it's caved in to become a careerist 
scramble up the ladder. The hardest 
There was just one 
problem: he hadn't 
published anything. 
thing is to realize that there's a world 
outside, something else to measure 
self-worth by~" 

Ferlo smiled wryly. "When I was 
deciding to become an academic, Yale 
was the glitz place. You wanted to get 
there. Someone told me at the time, 
'You go to Yale, you lose your soul.' I 
scoffed. I still think that's an exaggera-
tion, but the pressure can be deadly. It 
would have been nice to teach at a 
small college like the one I attended-
to get tenure and to feel that sense of 
'collegiality' that's lacking here." 

Ferlo's alma mater is Colgate 
University, a small college in upstate 
New York, where he first studied phil-
osophy. Colgate was an intellectual 
watershed for Ferlo. Following the ex-
ample of teachers he admired there, he 
decided to become one himself. Ferlo's 
foremost influence was a literature pro-
fessor named Jonathan Kistler, who 
turned him on to Shakespeare. Re-
called Ferlo: "Kistler knows he's a 
legend. As with most good teachers, he 
has a real charlatan-showman streak." 

Ferlo smiled. "I'm no exception." He 
admired Kistler's intellect and magnet-
ism but was disturbed by "the way the 
course turned into a cult of per-
sonality- Kistler's personality, not 
Shakespeare's." In this way, Kistler 
gave Ferlo a model for intellectual 
showmanship and an illustration of 
how it can go too far. Ferlo has tried to 
walk this tightrope ever since, with 
varying degrees of success. 

Ferlo came to Yale in 1973 as a 
graduate student 
English. He 
drifted from philosophy to English the 
same way he drifted from Catholicism 
to Episcopalianism: not with a crisis of 
conversion, but with a pleasant feeling 
of settling into something more com-
fortable. He spent his apprenticeship 
period as a T A and as a professorial 
jack-of-all-trades. "I've taught 'em all," 
he drawled in the world-weary tones of 
a riverboat gambler. "115, 125, 129, 
both terms of Shakespeare, a senior 
seminar, a college seminar ... " 

Writer's block 
By 1981, Ferlo had a devoted following 
among students and a growing reputa-
tion as a dynamic teacher. There was 
just one problem: he hadn't published 
anything. His writer's block was so in-
tense that he could barely finish his 
dissertation, let alone a sciJO!arly arti-
cle of the type smiled upon by the 
English Department. As a result, the 
Department terminated Ferlo's con-
tract. "It was the nadir of my fortunes ," 
he recalled. 

Within a month, however, an ex-
traordinary event reversed those for-
tunes. Ferlo was one of three winners 
of the first annual Undergraduate 
Teaching Prize. "I felt tremendously 
vindicated, amused- and furious!" 
Ferlo said. He promptly wrote a letter 
to the chairman of the English Depart-
ment, suggesting that his termination 
be reconsidered. "Three days later, I 
was reinstated. It was very gratifying 
to see the egg on their faces," he said 
with satisfaction. 

Ferlo accepted an invitation to 
become a resident fellow of Ezra Stiles. 
He and his family have lived in Stiles 
since then. Their apartment is orderly 
and spacious, taking up the entire lOth 
floor of the Stiles Tower. The living 
room is dominated by a green harp-
sichord that is half the size of a squash 
court. Beneath that is the cello Ferlo is 
learning to play. Music is a very 
private enjoyment for this otherwise 
outgoing person: he can play for hours 
at a time in private but will freeze up 
when asked to play for someone else. 

The exception to this is a certain 
flautist with whom he plays duets: his 
wife. 

Anne Harlan is as short as Ferlo. 
Below her long brown bangs are calm· 
blue eyes that look straight ahead as 
she speaks. The fact that Harlan, who 
programs computers for a public lib-
rary, did not take her husband's sur-
name is characteristic of her indepen-
dence. She hates to be thought of as 
"Mrs. Him," and Ferlo is happy to sup-
port her on that. "It's been a great 
satisfaction to us that only one of us is 
attached to this institution," he said. "I 
was always determined that I was mar-
rying him and not a Yale professor," 
she added. "It's nice being a professor's 
wife- you have a lot of freedom, cer-
tainly more than a priest's wife. But 
I'm in touch with a different work 
philosophy and a different reality." 

"It's an odd sort of situation here at 
Stiles. I don't feel like I lit in very well 
here," said Harlan. "We're on display, 
and we're meant to be on display. I 
think Elizabeth is probably happiest 
here, because she doesn't mind being 
on display." 

"Lizzie" is a tiny, talkative three-
year-old, whose dark hair and sharp 
features strongly resemble her father's. 
At the end of his first term 
of Shakespeare, Ferto had 
lost 15 pounds. 
She also resembles him in her sense for 
the theatrical, her artistic bent. She is 
seriously involved in finger painting at 
the Calvin Hill Day Care Center and 
will display her creations at a moment's 
notice. Her parenrs encourage her, 
commenting on each painting she pulls 
out of her stack. The stack is nearly as 
tall as she. 

"Roger and Anne use a very benign 
kind of authority," said one Yale stu-
dent who sits for Elizabeth. "She never 
seems aware of the fact that someone's 
saying no." 

Sweating blood 
When the English Department said 
"no" to Ferlo, he was planning to spend 
the next semester looking for a job. In-
stead, he found himself taking over the 
mammoth lecture course on Shake-
speare, originated by M arjorie Garber 
and A. Bartlett Giamatti. His reaction 
was understandable: "I was terrified. 
In a small seminar, you walk in with a 
sheet of paper. If you're teaching well 
that day, you get students to talk, 
manipulate them to come up with 
things they might not have thought of. 
But in a lecture, it's all you." 

His wife accompanied him to his 
first Shakespeare lecture, which drew a 
crowd that overflowed Linsly-Chit 
1 01. "He was sweating blood before-
hand," she said, "but when he got up to 
deliver the lecture, he just soared. 
Unlike me, he loves an audience - ! 
just have 
to drag him 
to 
the 
auditorium, and then he's line." 

Preparing for lectures was another 
story. "With fifty students, I can speak 
from notes," said Ferlo. "With 250, I 
have to write it out." T o his surprise, 
he produced 50 pages of lecture 
material each week, or 600 pages per 
term. "This was the guy with writer's 
block!" he said, laughing. The block 
persisted, however, in that he was 
unable to write without the spur of im-
mediate pressure. So Ferlo developed a 
routine for writing his lectures: he 
would go to bed at 7 p.m. the night 
before, wake up at four in the morn-
ing, type until 11:28, then dash to LC 
I 01. "I can't believe my wife put up 
with it," he said. At the end of the first 
term of Shakespeare, Ferlo had lost fif-
teen pounds. 

Many students remember those 
Shakespeare lectures with pleasure. 
"His lectures were incredibly com-
prehensive and comprehensible," said 
JE senior Amy Adels-:>n. "H e wasn't as 
self-absorbed as many English pro-
fessors are. He's interested in what he 
teaches, and that interest and insight 
are infectious." Clair Prestone, who was 
a TA for the course, agreed: "He 
always seems to have twice as many 
ideas as he has time for, but somehow 
he manages to fit them all in- and at a 
clip that's just slow enough to take 
notes at." But some students found 
Ferlo's lectures over-intellectual and 
difficult to follow. 

"I don't know 
whether it's a problem with Fcrlo or 
"I felt as if I were in the 
wrong business." 
with the English department," said one 
student. 

On the other side of the podium, 
Ferlo is uncomfortable with the lecture 
format. "If I had my choice, I would 
not lecture," he said. "I'm convinced 
that students don't know how to listen, 
that they're hostile to oral presentation. 
If I presented two ideas in a lecture, 
they wanted one idea over and over. 
Like my colleagues, I've had the ex-
perience of leaving a class and think-
ing, 'Why was I there?' There have 
been more moments like that than I 
wish there were." 

While Ferlo has experienced some 
u nsuccessful moments in his lectures, 
he has created many memorable ones 
for his students. His flamboyant man-
ner and dramatic style of reading made 
each 
lecture a 
performance. The 
charlatan-showman in Ferlo was in his 
element: Ferlo often read aloud from 
the plays in class acting out entire 
scenes. "The plays were meant to be 
listened to," he said. "That's what's fun 
about teaching Shakespeare. I could 
write a book based on my lectures, but 
who wants another book about Shake-
speare? I'd rather perform one of his 
plays." 

This highly theatrical approach re-
quired the familiar balancin~ act. Ferlo 
was determined to keep in its place 
what he calls "the staginess of the lec-
ture performance." When students ap-
plauded at the end of his first lecture, 
he said, "I felt as if I were in the wrong 
business." After his fifth lecture, he 
finally asked the class to stop ap-
plauding- the tightrope walker was 
losing his balance. '"The fact of ap-
plause is a significant action, and it 
drives me crazy," he explained. "A lee-


**"Dad can I have $20,000 for college?''**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 34**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"Dad can I have $20,000 
for college?'' 
CONGRATULATIONS TO THE GRADS 
AND THANKS FROM 
SCRIBBLES & SUGAR MAGNOLIA 
of Chapel Street 
Both stores open every day-
Cards, Gifts, Chocolate, and fun stuff 
777-0005 / 6 
34 The New Journal/April 8, 1983 
ture may be a performance, but I don't 
want to be told that." 
The podium and the stage 
Ferlo welcomes applause, though, in 
its proper place: the theatre. He has 
acted in several Yale productions, 
playing Mr. Peachum in Tht Thrtt· 
Ptnny Opaa, the bishop in Michael 
Malone's Diftnder of the Faith, and the 
psychiatrist in Equus. The latter was 
"the most ambitious thing I've ever 
tried, and the best production I've been 
in," Ferlo said. Applause may have 
driven him crazy in lectures, but he 
was delighted when the final perfor-
mance of Equus received a 15-minute 
standing ovation. 
"When everything was up in the 
air," said Harlan, "we talked about 
Roger's going to New York as an 
actor." But they concluded that the one 
thing less likely than Roger getting 
tenure at Yale would be Roger finding 
steady work in the equally overcrowd-
ed field of theatre. 
Everything was "up in the air" last 
year when Ferlo, still unpublished, 
decided that tenure was an impossible 
dream. H e began to put out feelers to 
other collc~es but got nowhere fast. 
"The longer one stays here, the harder 
it is to ~et a job somewhere else. They 
all say, 'If you were there, why come 
here?' There are fewer jobs for teachers 
now than ever- it's a buyer's market. 
One small college I approached said I'd 
have to start up the academic ladder all 
over again if they hired me." 
Ferlo didn't like the academic ladder 
the first time he climbed it. As the 
prospect of finding a secure, tenured 
niche somewhere grew fainter, Ferlo 
returned to an old and deep ambition: 
the priesthood. Suddenly, it seemed to 
be not only honorable but practical. 
He could be a teaching priest, either 
using his teaching abilities to serve the 
church and its community or letting a 
new perspective inform his l;ecular 
teaching. "It's a decision to act much 
more publicly,., said Ferlo. "Tempera-
mentally, 
I'm just not suited to 
academia, to that separation from peo-
ple and their needs. I don't want to 
spend the rest of my life writing 
tOmes." As a priest. Ferlo hopes to get 
off the tightrope and join the different 


<br>

**Roger Ferlo's new calling**
**Page number(s): 34-35**

drives within him: performing, teach-
ing, worshipping, learning. 
The idea was not as appealing to his 
wife, at first. "I was aware when I mar-
ried R oger that he was interested in the 
priesthood in some way," Harlan 
recalled. "I fought against it fiercely." 
She was afraid of losing her identity as 
a priest's wife; it was a role that she felt 
had little to do with who she was. "But 
after the job-hunting frustrations, I 
had to agree that he might as well bag 
it. H e needs to get away from Yale in 
order to make a change in his identity. 
He couldn't do that with another piece 
of paper from Yale." 
"If you spend your time on 
teaching, you tend to get 
penalized." 
Ferlo is unsure of the form his 
ministry will take. He hopes to find a 
parish in need of a pastor but will not 
rule out some form of secular teaching. 
He will teach the Yale Summer Pro-
gram's Shakespeare course before he 
enters the General Theological 
Seminary in New York this fall. In the 
meantime, he is studying Hebrew and 
Greek, parenting Lizzie, 
cooking 
(pasta is a specialty), and preparing for 
the big move. "Yale is basically giving 
me six months severance pay by allow-
ing me not to teach this term," Ferlo 
said. "It's very generous of them." 
H e reflected for a moment. "You 
know, I'm perversely grateful to the 
English Department. If I hadn't had 
my problems here, I might not have 
examined the reasons I was teaching. I 
might not have realized what I really 
wanted to do." 
• 
jack Lechner, a junior in Berkelry, is author 
q[The Ivy League Rock 'n Roll Quiz 
Book which was published last month. 



**The music makers**
**Author: Gordon M. Henry**
**Page number(s): 36**

Arts 
The music makers 
Gordon M. Henry 
Meet the people 
who decide what 
you hear. 
36 The New Journal/April 8, 1983 
ii 
E 
::> 
~ 
z ., 
"' 
t: 
:; 
PLR's Kampmaler: "We're not the only game. In town. It's 
just too easy to change the channel." 
Buy an album at Cutler's Record 
Shop, and it will come in a bag with a 
WPL R logo on it. Turn on WPLR and 
within an hour or so you'll hear a pro-
motion for a concert at Toad's Place or 
the Agora Ballroom, possibly mention-
ing that PLR is sponsoring the show. 
Check out the show and, while waiting 
for the band to arrive onstage, you can 
watch 
Music Television (MTV), 
cable's rock 'n' roll channel, on a giant 
silver screen. On your way home, take 
a look in Cutler's and chances are you'll 
find the display window plastered with 
copies of the newest release by the 
band you just saw. 
Yes, Virginia, rock 'n 
roll is a 
business. It is a business that feeds off 
itself, where one hand washes the 
other- and perhaps in no city is this 
more true than 
ew Haven. The city 
has a 
well-coordinated network of 
al{ents, salesmen and promoters whose 
job is to keep the business movinl{ 
along. The musical bandwagon in 
ew H aven operates by what has been 
called the "triangle theory:" a belief 
among businessmen that at least three 
separate signals are 
needed 
to 
penetrate the market and spur the 
musical consumer to plunk down seven 
or eight dollars for a record album or 
show ticket. "One of us can't exist 
without the other," said Lucy Sabini of 
Toad's Place, referring to the other 
clubs, •·adio stations and record stores 
whose promotional efforts comprise 
New Haven's musical nexus. 
The players in 
ew Haven's music 
business have to be coordinated to 
profit off the city's unique location. It 
might seem strange that New Haven, a 
city slightly smaller than Peoria, Il-
linois, has one of the liveliest concert 
scenes in the country. New H aven's 
status on the rock 'n' roll map is 
disproportionate to the city's popula-
tion size primarily because it's the 
logical stopover hetween 
ew York 
and Boston. Bands touring either or 
both of those towns generally book a 
gig in Connecticut, either to warm up 
for a show in the city or just to pick up 
some extra money on the way to some-
place else. And while Hartford's Civic 
Center and 
the 
H artford 
Agora 
Ballroom attract big names to the state 
capital, New Haven does even better. 
"The two hottest musical cemers in the 
country, without a doubt, are New 
York and L.A.- but New H aven 
could well be number three," said one 



**Title: Nightlife Like New Haven's Never Seen**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 37-39**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
New Haven radio personality. "This 
isn't in terms of generating local musicians. but in terms of the quality and 
quantity of national acts that come 
through this area." 

New Haven Agora Ballroom booking
agent Buddy Henderson recalled a 
week when six major national acts 
played New Haven. "It was about the 
third month I was here (March 1982)," 
said Henderson, whose rock star looks 
-lithe frame, blue silk Agora jacket 
and shoulder-length gray-flecked locks 
-seem out of place bathed in the 
morning sunlight at a window table in 
the Brewery. "There was a week in 
town when: we had Talking Heads on 
Wednesday night, and Genesis was at 
the Coliseum the same night. On 
Thursday Toad's had Joe Jackson, on 
Friday and Saturday we had the B-52s, 
on Sunday we had the Clash, and on 
Monday Charlie Daniels was playing 
the Coliseum. That's a whole year's 
worth of entertainment where I come 
from in South Carolina, and those 
weren't cheap tickets. There wasn't a single 
ticket under ten dollars, and every 
show was sold out." Henderson added 
in his soft Southern twang. "If New 
Haven was in South Dakota you would 
never see a single band here, ever." 
Club owners attribute much of New 
Haven's edge to a potential market of 
22,000 college students. This, combined with a low state drinking age 
that allows students to drink at bars, 
makes for a club scene that outdoes far 
larger cities. Local businessmen feared 
revenues could shrink by as much as 70 
percent if Connecticut had raised its 
drinking age to 21. To fight the drinking 
age legislation, clubs and other 
music-
related businesses - bands, etc. - banded together to 
pay for a radio advertising blitz that 
asked somberly, "Where would you be 
if the drinking age was 21?" 

"Philadelphia, the fourth largest city 
in the U.S., has no drinking rock 
clubs, only concert halls that sell no 
liquor," explained WPLR General 
Manager Chris Kampmaier. "They 
have a few jazz clubs downtown, but 
nothing like a Toad's Place. People in 
their late twenties and thirties just 
don't spend money in clubs the way 
college-age people do." 

At least once a week, the three top 
directors of WPLR gather in the second floor of the station's unassuming 
beige brick building in a decaying area 
downtown. There, they decide which 
five or six songs to add to the playlist of 
the number one rock music station in 
New Haven. The plaques on the walls 
attest to the importance of the decisions being 
made: 
million-selling 
albums by bands as disparate as 
Labelle and Joan Jett 
and 
the 
Blackhearts, whose success PLR has 
fostered in the past. The decisions that 
these three men arrive at each week affect more than what goes over the air-
waves at 99.1 
megahertz in 
New 
Haven (and roughly 75 miles out in 
any direction). They also influence 
what goes on 
the stages of 
Haven's clubs and concert halls, in the 
display windows of Cutler's Record 
Shop, 
and, 
presumably, 
into 
record and tape collections of countless 
musical consumers. 

PLR - whose call letters originally 
stood 
for 
"Popular 99" - differs 
dramatically from other top rock stations in the way it makes programming 
decisions: a small in-house staff calls 
the shots. Since the mid-1970s, most 
top rock stations across the country 
have followed what is known as a 
"superstar" format. They pay market 
research consultants - superstars -
who do national studies and then compile formats and playlists which the affiliates follow like gospel, and which as 
many as 90 percent of non-affiliates 
mimic. "It's been the rage now for eight 
or ten years," said Kampmaier. "And 
it's responsible for giving you three or 
four stations in the same city all playing 
the same thing - stations that have 
been playing 'Stairway to Heaven' 
every two or three days for six years 
now." 


**Title: The Power of PLR**
**Author: Gordon M. Henry**
**Page number(s): 40-41**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The station, came to sound like "Toad's 
Radio," in the words of Henderson. 
He smugly added that thanks to his 
club, "They don't sound like that 
anymore." 

As Henderson chuckled over his cup 
of lukewarm Brewery coffee, a note of 
vindictiveness surfaced in his attitude 
toward PLR. Yet he spoke politely, 
calmly. He explained the animosities 
that develop in a town where ag-
gressive clubs and promoters vie for 
support and sponsorship from one 
pivotal actor- WPLR. "This is the 
perfect example. Let's say there are 
two shows going on the same night, 
one at Toad's and one at the Agora. 
Let's say we offered PLR sponsorship 
for Squeeze and instead they chose to 
sponsor Jonathan Edwards at Toad's. 
I'd think that Chris Kampmaier was an 
idiot, because he let his personal feel-
ings get in the way of his business sense 
-if he has any business sense." 

Though Kampmaier said PLR is now 
"as promotionally active with the 
Agora as with Toad's," he acknow-
ledged that his personal friendship with 
Toad's Place owner Mike Spoerndle 
makes the distance between 
1294 
Chapel and 300 York Street perhaps 
the shortest six blocks in New Haven. 

All the interlocking strands of commit-
ment and hand-washing come together 
most clearly in the promotion of a new 
band's record: radio support, followed 
by a local club date, followed by record 
company promotion in the local record 
store and radio advertisements- what 
most people lump together as "hype"-
culminating in the final promotional 
push the day or two before and after an 
act's local gig. 

Does it work? How strong is the con-
nection between what PLR's managers 
decide they like and what ends up play-
ing and selling in New Haven? 

An illustration: the case of the Go-
Go's, the all-girl group from Los 
Angeles whose million-selling 1981 
album Beauty and the Beat resurrected a 
sound not heard since Diana Ross and 
the Supremes- and with a new wave 
"The two hottest musical 
centers in the country are 
New York and L.A.-but 
New Haven could well be 
number three." 
sensibility. PLR's musical overseers 
heard the record before its release, 
"said 'y'know that's damned good,' and 
began playing-wailing-the Go-Go's 
nine months before any radio station 
in the country," said Kampmaier, get-
ting excited at the recollection. PLR 
helped bring the Go-Go's to Toad's 
before the band had any national 
following- and 
only 
100 
people 
showed up at the club; the station 
brought the band back to Toad's a se-
cond time, and 650 people came; a 
third time and the club was packed, 
with another 1000 waiting outside 
unable to get tickets; the fourth time 
the Go-Go's came to town they played 
to 14,000 fans standing on their seats 
at the New Haven Coliseum. 

But such seemingly flagrant taste-
making power does have its checks and 
balances. Music, industry insiders will 
tell you, is a commodity, a product 
promoted and sold much like any other. 
Given the constraints of a competitive 
marketplace, the consumer, and not 
the producer, is the ultimate arbiter of 
taste. While Jason Cutler admits that 
PLR airplay, MTV videoplay and 
local club dates are all important pieces 
of "the pie graph" telling him which 
records 
to 
stock, 
the day-to-day 
preferences of his customers prevail. 

But what subliminal medium or mes-
sage induces a consumer to request a 
record in the first place? Deductive 
reasoning points to a few primary 
decision-makers at the center of the 
yarn: the guys at PLR. 

"Sure, I agree that our three guys 
are important," Kampmaier said 
grudgingly. "But you'll only listen to 
them once or twice if they're wrong. 
The tail does not wag the dog- and we 
are the tail." 

Kampmaier lifted his feet off the 
table, swiveled in the chair, and put his 
hand on the dial of his office FM 
receiver. He gave the knob a twirl and 
swiveled back around, looking pained. 
"You can jam good shit down peoples' 
throats," he said, "but you can't jam 
bad shit down their throats. The fact is 
we're not the only game in town. It's 
just too easy to change the channel." 

Gordon M. Henry, a senior in Saybrook, is 
former features editor of the Yale Daily 
News.


**Title: Theatre Supershows: Are there limits?**
**Author: Laura Pappano**
**Page number(s): 42**

They knew they'd need five quarts of 
blood, six silver barber's razors and an 
audience of 200 people a night. They 
also knew they'd have to fit it into the 
Ezra Stiles dining hall. But they deci-
ded to do Sweeney Todd anyway. 

On the other side of campus, three 
writers were trying to convince two 
directors and a choreographer that 
their ideas could be turned into 
something tangible. After months of 
hairpulling, they chose to call it The 
Speed. 

Either one alone could have created 
a stir. Either one alone could have 
replaced last year's production of Jesus 
Christ Superstar as the supershow, the 
Sweeney Todd (Adam Grouper) 
new model of undergraduate theatre. 
But more remarkable than the possibil-
ity of either of them was the fact of 
them both-and at the same time. The 
Speed and Sweeney Todd caused a kind of 
neurosis in the theatre world here, is-
suing a challenge that neither was sure 
could be met. "Despite what we were 
saying," recalled Sweeney musical direc-
tor Scott Freiman, "we were scared to 
death. We didn't just want to do it -we 
wanted to do it right." David Loud, 
director of The Speed felt some of the 
same tension in the early going: "I 
think it's about all the campus can 
take." 

It all began in December when the



**The Super-Shows**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 43**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
supershows held their auditions, an 
unprecedented four months before the 
spring productions were to open. And 
for good reason: Th~ Sp~~d needed to 
cast parts early so the writers could 
tailor the details of the script and lyrics 
to the specific actors. And Swunty Todd 
was an enormous undertaking that 
would require every minute it could 
get. In the early scramble for dramat 
sponsorhip and talent, there were a lot 
of hard feelings. Other productions felt 
that they couldn't compete for actors 
and production crews because so many 
people had drifted toward the super-
shows. "I think that both Th~ Spud and 
Sw~mty Todd sent shivers around Yale " 
said Freiman, "they were two excitin'g 
projects, and that's probably why there 
was some competition." 

"I think It's about all the 
campus can take." 

From the outset, the competition 
between the two shows was inevitable. 
Both would require an extraordinary 
amount of talent, ~nergy and money. 
The question seeMed to hang in the 
air: was there enough to go around? 
No one was placing any bets. Sw«nty 
was prepared to fold if it didn't get the 
singers it wanted. "We couldn't have 
done the show without excellent leads, 
because the music is on an almost 
operatic level," explained Freiman. 

But once auditions were over, it was 
evident that the talent was there. It was 
not impossible to cast two major 
musicals at the same time. "In a 
physical sense, there was competition," 
acknowled~d Loud. "But they got 
their people and we got ours." 

**Aesthetic Inconvenience**

When students in Ezra Stiles College 
~eturned from spring break, their din-
tng hall looked more like a construc-
tion site than a place to eat. One-by-
threes sliced through would-be meal 
conversations. 
Metal bars trapped 
students in their chairs. Half of the 
tables were placed under scaffolding 
platfonns, in the dark. But everyone 
found notes in their boxes to explain: 
-rhe Stiles Drarnat is well underway 
with its spring production of sw~mty 
• 6 
Josephine Perry of The Speed (Sarah Young). 
Todd,"' read the note ... "we apologize 
for any aesthetic or other inconvenience 
that anyone might po:-.sibly exper-
ience.""! feel like I'm in the middJe of a 
transistor radio . ., complained one 
Stiles student. 

~It's really neat that 
these theatre people can come in here 
late at night and put together this 
stufT,~ said one Stile" sophomore. 
referring to the t"xpansivc Swrmt'); set. 
"But somebody's got to tell them that 
there are limits . ., 

Are there limits? Are there shows 
that college dramats samplv shouJd not 
attempt? As cramped and inconve-
nient as it is. dining hall theatre 
has become a "a)' of I i fc ar Yale. In rhc 
ca~e of most 'ho''"• if, an inconven-
ience thar a rcsidt·ntial college can 
tolerate. But in some '<ituauons. a' 
with these o;uper,how'<, it i<t impraotical 
for cveryont· invoked. The crew of 
Su-,m~ Todd. a tcchnicallr demanding 
sho", s~nt the three "eeks prior to 
the show \\.Orking all night, usually un-
til the start of breakfast, because it was 
the only time thev had access to the 
dining hall . And Th, Sp~ had to 5eat-
ter rehearsals in odd rvoms around the 
campu~ bccau'e there \\.ere no places 
lar'tc enou~h to accomodate all its dif-
ferent components. Clearly. much of 
Yale undergraduate college thcatrt• is 
reachinl{ a plateau of size and quality 
that \'>arrant'< ~orne new consideration. 
At the '-t·ry lea,t. the super,hows have 
lent <·n·dencc to the arguments of tho e 
"ho ha\'C Jon'{ demanded more theatre 
·pace on campu.;. 


**Sweeney Todd**
**Page number(s): 43-45**

SW«11t') Todd i' a musical ha ed on 
an old Englio:h legend about the 
-demon barber of Fleet Street" '"ho 
The :".t·\-. .Journal/April 8, 1983 43 

supposedly murdered his customers 
and turned them into meat pies. It was 
the biggest show ever staged on Broad-
way, and it's the biggest show in Yale 
college theatre to date. "It doesn't 
dwarf Superstar," said Miguel Valenti, 
director of Sweeney Todd. "But it is big-
ger." Valenti said that he had wanted a 
show that was ambitious enough to risk 
jeopardizing his future career. "I love 
this show," he said, "I may fail out of 
law school, but it's worth it." 

Valenti couldn't have found a more 
ambitious project. Sweeney Todd has a 
$6000 budget, a cast of 37 and a 
30-piece orchestra. Before it closes on 
Sunday, it will have combined the 
labors of over 200 people. More than 
any other show, Sweeney Todd is a 
technical monster. It has employed 
some of the most detailed lighting and 
set design around, and in the process 
has brought together nearly every 
technical person on campus. "We pr-ob-
ably have the best electrics crew that's 
ever been assembled for an under-
graduate show," said Valenti. When he 
decided to do the show, Valenti 
knew that the technical end would be 
crucial to its success. "We're not trying 
to recreate Broadway," he said, "but 
you need to create the same atmos-
phere in which it was performed. You 
don't have to create it the same way, 
but you have to create that very special 
mood- hence Tom and Remie." 

Working together, lighting designer 
Remie Constable and set designer 
Tom McQuillen have tried to create 
the atmosphere that Valenti feels is so 
important. "The biggest problem is 
that the dining hall is too small to do it 
in," said McQuillen. "We had to create 
the illusion that there is a huge, expan-
sive space." Both designers worked 
toward this goal by suggesting that the 
stage has no concrete bounds. "We had 
this idea of very concrete to abstract-
not having the edges of the set any-
where," explained Constable. "My 
lights are intended in a lot of cases to 
be patchy and murky and obscure .. 
People will be walking in and out of 
shadow." 

McQuillen, an architecture major 
who is receiving academic credit for his 
desi~n work, has been working on the 
show since the fall semester. Part of his 
preparation included a 1: 24 scale 
model of the dining han and set. He 
designed and built the most intricate 
set pieces, such as Sweeney Todd's 
barber chair over the winter break, 
snipping them from Wisconsin by 
freight. He has also been keeping and 
training six white rats, which make an 
appearance in the show's graveyard 
scene. Obviously, this set involves


con ... ,n ....... 
lacks the vulgar implications of 'fast• ... 
more than building a few fancy plat-
forms: its style and effect have been 
carefully planned. 

"I'm trying to create a kind of in-
dustrial 
madness." explained Mc-
Quillen. "The way I understand the 
play, you have normal everyday life-
then suddenly people are getting baked 
into pies," said McQuillen. It is the 
sudden, shocking chan"ge of scale -the 
jump from ordinary to terrifying-that 
M cQuillen has tried to capture in his 
set clesi~n. "The thing that impressed 
me most was the play's sense of little 
tiny places versus huge. terrifying, 
awe-inspiring spaces," he said. Mc-
Quillen borrowed several loads of gar-
bage from a local junkyard and sus-
pended it from the roof struts and scaf-
folding to help create the eerie London 
atmosphere. 

Valenti has launched a show that is 
not only technically demanding, but 
that is demanding in terms of acting 
and music as well. To allow his cast to 
meet the challenge of Swmrry Todd, 
Valenti began his rehearsals as earl;. as 
January 16. teaching his actors skills 
that they otherwise might not acquire. 
.. 1 think you could liken it to a training 
program," said Valenti. "We've taught 
them dance, mime, improvisation and 
character work- we've even given 
them hand-outs on period informa-
tion. I'm really making the actors 
work. They are putting in a lot of time, 
~nd I want them to get something for 
lt." 


**The Speed**
**Page number(s): 44-45**

No Rodgers and Hammersteln 
Th~ Sp~~d was also an enormously com-
plex and time-consuming work-but 
in a way quite different 'from Swtmry 
Todd. The technical end of Th~ Sp~~d 
was quite simple. "There's a sort of 
lighting 
mafia ~ that seems to have 
gravitated 
towards 
sw~mry," Loud 
observed. "What I'm interested in is 
what has been written and not how we 
can light it beautifully. I've been trying 
to keep most of the show very abstract 
and clean to emphasize what is going 
on between the people." 

Th~ Spe~d is a new, l920s-Oavored, 
student-written musical based on the 
F. Scott Fitzgerald story "'A Nice Quiet 
Place." Composer Jon Ehrlich began 
working on the show a year and a half 
ago. Last spring he outlined the show 
with lyricist Dan Klotz and proposed 
the idea to director Da" id Loud and 
musical director Ted Sperling. 

Elizabeth Stauderman soon became 
the scriptwriter. Finally, at the end of 
the fall term, Midori Nakamurajoined 
as the show's choreographer, and a 
production crew was assembled. 

From the beginning, everyone took 
Th~ Sp«d seriously. There was no 
doubt that this was going to be a pro-
fessional undertaking. Unlike the pro-
duction staff of Swunry Todd, many of 
the people on the staff of Th~ sp~~d in-
tend to make theatre a career. Even in 
high school, Ehrlich had written and 
produced a full-scale musical. And 
Loud, who took ofT a semester last year 
to perform in the Broadway show Mu-
rily w~ Roll AIOTif!. has already had a 
taste of professional theatre. "'I think 
the show was an invaluable experience 
for all of us: said Sperling. "At the 
lowest level, the how w1ll be a body of 
work that we can <;how to other people. 
At least it will help us pre ent ourselves 
to other professionals." 


**Title: The Speed**
**Author: Laura Pappano**
**Page number(s): 46-47**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Because everyone had such a per-
sonal stake in the project's success, 
making even a subtle alteration often 
involved a six-way debate. "It's very 
hard to be wrenching things around," 
said Loud. "It's for the good of the 
show, but it's still very hard. We all 
tend to get emotional about it. We all 
have such strong opinions about every 
little matter. It's frustrating, but I 
wouldn't have it any other way."


It was the very flexibility of The Speed 
that made it so difficult. Because it had 
never been done before, it could be 
done an infinite number of ways. "The 
fact that there _was_ the possibility of 
rewriting the script created a different 
attitude in working on the show," said 
Loud. "There was always the possibili-
ty of someone coming up with a better 
idea for a line. But I started with the 
idea of making the script work. Then 
when something absolutely did not 
work, we changed the script."


The remarkable thing about The 
Speed was the amount of persistence 
that was part of the creative process 
from the beginning. The title didn't 
just appear at the top of the completed 
script, but was the source of many 
hours of debate. Even still, it is a 
source of confusion for those who 
aren't familiar with the project. Loud 
sometimes found himself having to dis-
pel the misconception that The Speed is 
a musical about radicalism in the six-
ties. 
"I 
don't 
like 
the drug 
connotation," Loud admitted.


In the early months of production, 
the title changed regularly. Originally 
the writers of the play worked under 
the title of the Fitzgerald story, but 
they finally decided that "A Nice Quiet 
Place" was too sedate for a musical 
about a fast young woman named 
Josephine. The first title suggestions 
played off her name: "On Your Mark, 
Get Set, Jo," "Josephine Perry, Quite 
Contrary," "Speaking of Josephine," 
and simply "Josephine!" In less serious 
moments, the writers adapted titles of 
current Broadway shows, like "Joseph-
ine Babies," "Josephinita" and even 
"Sweeney Josephine." Finally they 
came up with "The Speed," one of 
those convenient words that, according 
to Fitzgerald, "lacks the vulgar im-
plications of 'fast'."


Creating The Speed was a process of 
teaching and learning, relaying and 
multiplying new ideas as the musical 
developed. What began as Ehrlich's 
private conception became more and 
more public property as work pro-
gressed. "Right now Jon and Dan and 
Elizabeth know everything about the 
show- it's theirs," Loud said several 
months ago. "As rehearsals start, I'm 
the one who has to know everything 
about it. Then the actors will know 
everything- they will know things I 
don't know. Then, finally the audience 
will know. It's a very satisfying pro-
cess- one that you don't get when you 
order Babes In Arms from Rodgers and 
Hammerstein." And when you order 
Babes In Arms you don't worry about 
whether or not it will make sense or 
how it will flow; you don't even have to 
wonder how it will sound. There were 
no recordings of _The Speed_ that the 
directors or singers could listen to for 
guidance. What guidance they did 
have wasn't immutable-everything 
was open to change.


Catch 22? 
Undeniably, 
both 
_The Speed_ and 
Sweeney Todd have challenged the quali-
ty of undergraduate theatre at Yale. 
But given what many see as a trend 
towards fewer, bigger, more expensive 
productions, the question should be 
asked: Does all theatre have to be on a 
huge professional scale simply because 
it's been shown that it can be? Some 
have said that theatre here is involving 
itself in a kind of Catch 22, in which 
each production crew that comes along 
feels a compulsion to up the ante. "It's 
hard for me to know where to go from 
here," said Freiman. When Superstar 
went up last spring, people squirmed. 
Was this the new standard of ex-
cellence? A year later, _The Speed_ and 
Sweeney Todd have pushed the standard 
up even higher.


The fact is that different shows lure 
different kinds of talent, and super-
shows 
thrive 
on 
a 
particularly 
masochistic strain of the theatre 
species. Valenti described the super-
show mentality best: "Our attitude's 
always been, 'this show can't be done, 
so let's go do it.'" 
• 
Laura Pappano, a junior in Ezra Stiles, is 
an associate editor of TNJ.



Corner Park & Elm. Parking validated at the Broadway lot. 
Come Uptown for Sunday Brunch with 
Champagne and Piano Entertainment


• Homestyle Italian Food 
• Hearty Drinks 
• Lunch and Dinner 
• Piano Bar 
• Late night menu 
• Rathskeller 
'Two stars-plus, just short of three.' - Patricia Brook, N. Y. Times 
387-0500


THE ANNIVERSARY SALE 
COME CELEBRATE OUR 98TH YEAR OF SERVICE! 
APRIL 14th-23rd 
20_
0~~-0_F_F_A_L_L_B_O_O 
__ 
KS __ 
THE WOMEN'S DEPARTMENT 
30% OFF SELECTED SPRING SUITS & SUIT COORDINATES 
BY EVAN-PICONE, WEATHERVANE, & VICTOIRE 
THE MEN'S DEPARTMENT 
20% OFF ALL SUITS & SPORT JACKETS; ALL SLACKS, 
ALL NECKWEAR, ALL HOSIERY, ALL PAJAMAS, ALL JOCKEY 
UNDERWEAR- 40% OFF SELECTED MEN'S SHOES 
ADDITIONAL SAVINGS THROUGHOUT THE STORE 
INCLUDING: 
40% OFF ALL GAMES • 50% OFF SELECTED PICTURE FRAMES 
40% OFF ALL LUGGAGE • 25% OFF ALL ART SUPPLIES 
50% OFF ICE SKATES • 20% OFF ALL MATCHSTICK BLINDS 
THE YALE CO-OPERATIVE CORPORATION 
77 BROAD WAY, NEW HAVEN, CT. 06520 
Open 9:45-5:30 Mon-Sat. I Thurs. night to 8:00p.m. 
Visa, Mastercard, American Express are welcome.

