Publication date: September 2007
Volume: 40
Issue number: 1


**MASHEAD**
- Publisher: Lauren Harrison
- Editor-in-Chief: Jontry Dach
- Managing Editors: Nicole Allan, Nick Handler
- Designer: Rachel Engler
- Senior Editors: Emify Koh, Sophia Lear
- Production Manager: Jordan Jacks
- Associate Editors: Tess Dearing, Aditi Ramakrishnan, Mitchell Reich
- Photo Editor: Ben try Sachs
- On-line Editors: Ben Lasman, Ali Seitz
- Copy Editor: Laura Bennett
- Research Director: Laura Zax


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- 12 MASONS A.]AR - Ben Lasman
- A FRESH APPROACH - Jon'!)' Dach
- Points of Departure - 
- The Profile - Laura Bennett
- The Critical Angle - Emify Koh
- The Personal Essay - Tess Dearing
- Endnote - Nicole Allan


**Title: 12 MASONS A.]AR**
**Author: Ben Lasman**
**Page number(s): 12**
An ancient fraternity builds a new campus 
following.


**Title: A FRESH APPROACH**
**Author: Jon'!)' Dach**
**Page number(s): 20**
A local non-profit unites independent farmers 
with the Fair Haven community.


**Title: Points of Departure**
**Author:** 
**Page number(s): 4**



**Title: The Profile**
**Author: Laura Bennett**
**Page number(s): 8**
Dicking Around


**Title: The Critical Angle**
**Author: Emify Koh**
**Page number(s): 27**
Behind Glass Doors


**Title: The Personal Essay**
**Author: Tess Dearing**
**Page number(s): 32**
The Missing Ink


**Title: Endnote**
**Author: Nicole Allan**
**Page number(s): 38**
Indian Summer


**Campus Library Cafe**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Campus Library opens in late October, 
the new Library Cafe will open with 
it. 

A joint project of the Library, the 
Yale Sustainable Food Project, and Yale 
' 
University Dining Services, the Cafe will 
serve su&tainable food that is, whenever 
possible, sourced locally; When it comes 
,1/*. ·to snack food, nothing could be more local 
than Newton's kettle corn. Except that he 
will be using organic popcorn instead of 
• 1n 
conventional popcorn, the kettle corn 
Newton makes for the Cafe will be made 
with the very same equipment and in the 
very same cart that he uses.on York Street.


**Newton's Kettle Corn**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

FROM THE SOUND OF HIS NAME, NEWTON 
Carroll III could be a federal judge or a 
member of the British Royal family, but 
he presides over neither a palace .nor 
any court of law. .Carroll's domain is a 
· street corner in downtown New Haven 
from which, for the past three years, he 
has been selling his own variety of kettle 
corn. Here, he reigns supreme 
the 
. only vendor on his side of the street. 

Across the way, in the delta where 
medical school students, doctors, and 
hospital staff empty out of Yale-New 
Haven Hospital for lunch, food vendors 
abound. Steam and smoke rise up from 
shining metal carts; sweat pours down 
from the arms and faces of vendors; 
swells of scrubs-clad customers clog 
the sidewalks; shouted orders mingle 
with the clink of tendered change 
and the occasional wail of a siren. 

Spotl ing easy pickings in over-zealous 
kernels that pop their way straight onto 
the sidewalk, birds are the most clamorous 
customers 
around 
Carroll's 
eclectic 
cart. Painted in primary colors, printed 
with the words, 'cprotected by God's 
Hands," and sporl ing a pink-orange-and 
white-striped deck umbrella, the cart 
was built by Patricia Carroll when she 
and her husband founded the Elm City 
Kettle Corn Company in June of 2004. 
Their treat will soon be available away 
from the cart and free from the birds. 
When the renovated 
Cross 
• 
Six by nine feet in footprirtt, the 
cart Patricia 
built is 
fashioned of 
wooden boards and 2x4s. 
Mounted 
onto its base is a large box that houses 
a 
propane~fired . flame. The stainless 
steel bowl that is Newton's kettle sits 
sunken into the box's hinged lid, which, 
when opened, causes the kettle to dump 
1ts contents mto an enormous copper 
container called "the bin." From here, 
Newton bags and serves his kettle corn. 

Kettle corn 
shares 
its 
essential 
ingredient with popcorn, . though it 
bears very little relationship to the too-
yellow, cheap-smelling, "I Can't Believe 
It's Not Butter" -saturated variety one 
finds in movie theaters. 
Perhaps best 
characterized as a confection, kettle corn 
is popcorn popped with sugar and hot 
oil until a thin, caramelized crust forms 
over the burst kernel, then sprinkled 
generously with salt. Sweet and salty, 
bite-size and slightly crunchy, kettle corn 
might just be the perfect snack food. 
Carroll's customers certainly think so. 

On a good day, Carroll can sell as many 
as one hundred three- and five-dollar 
bags of kettle corn. 
On the sidewalk 
and in the road beside his cart, people 
and cars line up to wait for service. And 
according to one woman who bought a 
large bag as she was leaving work, "the 
hospital people swear by this stuf£" 

Carroll has only recently become a 
kettle corn aficionado, but his skill and 
finesse on the job come from years of . 
popping at home. To hear him tell the 
story of Elm City Kettle Corn, selling 
popcorn was a simple, almost obvious 
choice. ''I just like popcorn," he says, 
-
explaining how he used to make it at 
home, "and evetybody says how good it 
is." Reca11ing how highly his coworkers 
used to praise the popcorn Carroll 
brought them, and seeing her recently 
retired husband "at loose ends," Patricia 
suggested he sell the confection. A few 
internet searches later, the two of them 
had discovered the kettle corn business, 
found a man in Alabama who was selling 
his equipment, driven south to pick it up, 
and set to work. Now, Carroll pops kettle 
corn· every weekday from noon to five. 

Though 
enthusiasm 
for 
his new job is contagious, there are few 
other retirees who would choose to 
spend their free time risking constant 
burns over a huge pot of hot oil and 
bursting corn kernels. Newton must 
don protective gear for ·his hands and 
arms 
gl~ves and what look like arm 
socks that reach from his Wrists past 
his elbows 
before making each batch. 

Suited up, and wearing a bright yellow 
"Elm City Kettle Corn Co." shirt, a blue 
apron, and a Yankees cap, Newton looks 
like something of. an ailachronism as he 
stirs the corn with both hands; gripping 
a three-foot-long wooden rod that might 
well be the end of a sawn-off broom 
handle. His feet planted wide, his arms 
working in clockwise circles, he recalls one's 
childhood visions of witches bent over 
boiling potions in dark, enchanted woods. 

But there is nothing magical about 
Newton's brew, and his recipe is no secret: 
three cups vegetable oil to two cups corn 
and one cup sugar, with salt to taste. 
The cooking instructions are equally 
straightforward: 
heat oil in the kettle, 
add corn and sugar, stir until the rapid-
fire staccato of bursting kernels beating 
against the sides of a steel pot subsides, 
add salt, allow to cool, serve. Nonetheless, 
Carroll will allow no apprentices 
he 
does all the preparation himself. "I'm 
very particular about the way it comes 
out," he explains. 'CVery particular." 

Even as Elm City Kettle Corn begins to 
expand its operations, Carroll will continue 
to man the kettle. But what will happen 
if he is suddenly faced with a de111and for 
thousands of bags a day? Selling to Yale 
could be the first step toward puu ing his 
kettle corn on the shelves of local shops. 
Even if such expansion is years away, 
Library Cafe may soon be knocking on 
the Carrolls' door, asking . for more. Will 
Carroll still spend time at his homemade 
. 
cart, 
trading 
popcorn 
stories? 
On this point, his regulars needdt 
worry. For Newton and his wife, selling 
to Yale is a boon, a sign of God's 
providence. But only misfortune; never 
felicity, could cause Carroll to leave his 
York Street customers. Of the corner 
on which he has spent most of his 
afternoons for three years, Carroll says: 
"This is home; these are all my friends.'' 


**Stitch 'n Bitch**
**Author: Mai Wang**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

IN THE BATHROOM OF AN AIRPLANE; AT 
the back of ABP; even in the middle of 
jury duty, across the country bored and 
frustrated women are doing it everyw-here, 
letting loose and rediscovering the joy 
of an age-old past-time. In a world of 
ready-made blankets and store-bought 
scarves, women have begun to rem~mber 
the pleasure of making things with their 
hands. In recenLyears, kniu ing has come 
back in a big way, and with its rise have 
come legions of women looking to join 
social networks: New Haven's chapter of 
Stitch 'n Bitch, a nationwide group that 
organizes local kniu ing circles, now claims 
September 2007 
283 members. Local founder Karen 
explains, "I bought Deb Stoller's first 
book, Stitch 'n Bitch: The Knitter~ Handbook 
in December 2003, and taught myself how 
to knit. I made a New Year's resolution to 
join a knitting group, but I couldn't find 
one. So I convinced my friend Aileen to 
knit with me every Wednesday evening 
at Koffee? on Audubon St." As others 
filtered in, the small, local coffee shop 
couldn't afford to lose its chairs to a sit-
in of a dozen women not buying drinks, 
so now they meet four times a week in 
retail chains throughout Connecticut. 
Sundays are held in the Yale Bookstore, 
Mondays in Woodbridge, Thursdays at 
the Pan era Bread in North Haven, and 
tonight it's Wednesday at the Au Bon Pain 
on the corner of York and Elm Streets. 

S'nB is refashioning the classic image 
of the knitter. Although the women 
continue the long tradition of gathering 
in a room with sewing projects on 
their laps, thete are no white granny 
caps to be seen, and no one's hair is 
in a bun. Despite its name, none of 
the members..,. are particularly prone to 
complaining; once in a while, someone 
will mention a dropped stitch. It's a bevy 
of bespectacled women in their 20s and 
30s, and the gossip is strictly fiber-centric. 

Early on, only Heather and Katy 
have arrived, two quiet women with 
skeins of yarn. Heather is busy knitting 
miniature pink and brown socks for her 
four-year-old daughter. "My daughter's 
tiny," she explains. "She doesn't grow." 
Right now she's teaching her how 
to knit. "I have hign hopes for her," 
she says, crossing her fingers on one 
hand and her needles in the other. 

Katy is making a sweater for herself, 
her most ambitious project yet. One 
sleeve 
dangles 
complete, 
and 
she 
contentedly tries it on as she goes. But 
when she's knitting for others, Katy's 
projects sometimes involve a kind of 
vague sorcery. ''Every time I start making 
a baby blanket, someone tells me they're 
pregnant!" she says with a shrug, as if her 
knitting were somehow entwined with 
the reproductive future of her friends. 
Mostly she knits as meditation, and she 
loves to sneak her needles into forbidden 
places. ''I did it on jury duty," she admits, 
"and it takes away the frustration of 
siu ing on the airplane." She stitches away 
while we talk, her needles clicking steadily. 

Jackie 
Nancy, 
first-time 
· Stitch'nBitchers, turn up next. They're 
coworkers· at the New Haven Courthouse 
who've decided to extend their lunch 
break addiction into the evening hours. 
Nancy started knitting three years ago, 
and Jackie is her blonde protegee. Besides 
the standard sweaters, socks, and scarves, 
they've also made fingerless gloves, 
handbags, ponchos ("we never wear them, 
but they're beautiful") and stuffed animals: 
"I knit turtles with detachable shells for 
my kids last year," Jackie shares proudly, 
but reveals that they repaid her by playing 
limbo with her yarn, stretching a thread 
across the room and running under it. So 
tonight Jackie is a self-confessed "selfish 
knitter": she's making a checkerboard 
wrap, a patchwork of purple, gray and 
black squares,· which she plans to ·use 
as a winter staple in her own wardrobe. 

''Actually," she says, "I recycle a lot 
I'll 
wear a sweater a couple of times, rip it 
out and reuse the yarn." She's constantly 
inventing new clothes from . old fibers. 

The women arrive in pairs, but no 
one shares the same pattern or color of 
yarn. The methods. vary, Heather tells me. 
Stitches can be traced to their owners' 
strings of DNA: differentpeopleknitwith 
tighter or looser stitches, so their swatches 
will come out smaller or bigger, and each 
woman has her own trademark stitch. 

Soon there are 15 gathered at the 
wooden table, and it's clear from the 
varying speeds of the needles that the 
world of kniu ing comes wrapped in 
its own hierarchy. The best knitters can 
produce a basic scarf in a few hours. A 
tote bag is a. day, a sweater four weeks, and 
lace shawls can bleed into two seasons. 

A cedar chest is a must to keep moths 
away from fluffy skeins of wool, although 
a bag of lavender will also do the trick. 

As with any ancient art-form, knitting 
too has its own set of old wives' tales and 
superstitions: ''Heather, you never get 
second sock syndrome?" Jackie asks in 
wonder. This happens when a knitter has 
finished one perfect sock but suddenly 
gets bored with the prospects of making 
its identical twin. Later, Karen tells me 
of the Boyfriend Sweater Curse: ''Never 
knit a sweater for your boyfriend. He 
won't appreciate the effort you put into 
it, and it'll cause your break." Others in 
5 


the_ circle propose a remedy to ward off 
such mishaps. They bring out a book of 
"Naughty Needles: Sexy, Saucy Knits 
for the Bedroom and Beyond," and are 
greeted by a round of general giggling. 
"That's probably the only kind of knitting 
my husband would like," jokes Jackie. I 
learn that it is possible to knit a corset, 
a whip, and even a straitjacket. A more 
benign sequel arrives with "Charmed 
Knits: Projects for Fans. of Harry 
· Potter." The book includes elaborate . 
diagrams for making wizard robes, wand 
cozies, elf hats for babies, golden snitch 
balls, and even an invisibility cloak. 

Karen points to the glass windowpanes 
behind us. Pedestrian onlookers stare as 
they cross the street. Suddenly it feels 
as if the group is inside an aquarium 
being watched by an audience. "I like 
knitting in this spot," she confesses. 
"It feels like performance art." For the 
women of Stitch'n Bitch, knitting is a 
chance to. air out their domestic selves. 


**How Bequests Are Made**
**Author: Brooks Swett**

How Bequests Are · 
on 

THIS SEMESTER, THE YALE UNIVERSITY ART 
Gallery will debut its most recent and eye-
popping acqwsitions. From September 
to January, an exhibit titled "Art for 
Yale" will display works the Gallery ·has 
received or purchased since Director 
Jock Reynolds' arrival in 1998. 
The 
exhibit will include over three hundred 
major works, only a few of which are 
currently on display. Jill Westgard, the 
Gallery's 
Director of Development, 
described all the works as "ones a student 
would study in Art History 1 01." Chief 
Cuq.tor Susan Matheson hopes the 
exhibit will embody the Gallery's recently 
revitalized aim "to inspire artists as much 
as art historians" and to incorporate 
the personal interests of Yale students, 
faculty, museum staff, and donors in 
their efforts to create an active dialogue 
and a dynamic, . far-reaching institution. 

As students and faculty rediscovered 
the Gallery's ·masterpieces at the Kahn 
Building's reopening last year, many may 
have wondered how such world-renowned 
art found its way to ·New Haven. The 
YUAG receives some bequests and 
endowments as unexpeeted windfalls. 
Several years ago, an elderly amateur 
art collector joined her local retirement 
home's field trip to the Yale University Art 
Gallery. She fell in love with the Gallery, 
and decided to anonymously donate her 
fifty Greek and Roman pieces to Yale. 

However~ most gifts result from an 
extensive series of conversations among 
museum curators, private collectors, 
and University faculty. With knowledge 
of the major private collections in his 
or her field, .each curator approaches 
poten~al donors and works with the 
Development Office to capitalize on any 
Yale connections. Each of the Gallery's 
departtnents compiles a wish list of the 
art it is seeking. While these goals guide 
curators' recruitment efforts, flexibility 
also proves · essential in order to seize 
singular opportunities, like an unexpected 
trove of antiquities recently acquired 
when the Albright-Knox Museum in 
Buffalo, NY auctioned off its collection. 

When recruiting potential donors 
and negotiating conditions for gifts, the 
YUAG emphasizes its unique role as 
an active teaching museum. 
Still, the 
Gallery competes with other museums 
in its acquisition efforts. To persuade 
families to leave their art to Yale, curators 
remind donors that art from the YUAG 
often replaces slides in Yale classrooms 
while works at large civic museums may 
remain in storage for long and dusty 
stretches. 

Some donors to the YUAG 
take this further than the museum would 
like, and impose conditions on their 
gifts that stipulate how often the works 
can travel or how many of their pieces 
0 
must be on display at a given time. The 
Gallery, however, prefers "thf flexibility 
to rotate exhibitions and loan· items, and 
typically enters such negotiations only 
for extremely significant works. It also 
foregoes offers that overlap the existing 
collection, and instead works with donors 
to procure gifts that complement Yale's 
existing collection. If a person wants to 
donate twelve chairs by the same artist, 
the Gallery may negotiate to display two in 
its permanent collection, while selling the 
other ten to create an acquisition fund in 
the donor's name. The museum allocates 
such funds for purchasing art, usually 
in the style that the donor collected. 

The YUAG hopes to parlay its new 
bequests into an :·increased presence in 
the acadeinic life of the University. The 
Gallery has traditionally focused on 
acquiring pieces in areas, like American 
and Asian 
(especially Chinese) 
art, 
especially representative of the strengths 
of the History of Art Department. Since 
Reynolds became Director of the Gallery 
in 1998, however, he has sought to build 
the collection in all areas, encouraging 
curators to strengthen their research 
and address gaps in their collections. 

The Curator of Academic Initiatives, 
a position established in 2004, seeks 
out professors and develops programs 
that take advantage of the new exhibits. 
The YUAG has begun to work with 
faculty from departments ranging from 
Medieval Studies to Gender Studies to 
Anthropology. Language classes now 
include field trips to the Gallery, where 
students practice conversational skills as 
they discuss foreign art. Students from 
the Law School study art law, while School 
of Management students have capitalized 
on Gallery resources to learn about 
the art market. In an exclamation that 
perhaps applies to the Yale University Art 
Gallery's new future as much as it does 
to the new exhibit, Mates on said: ''You 
won't believe what you're going to see." 

Illustrations 1?J! Ali 5 eitz 



**Title: Dicking Around**
**Author: Laura Bennett**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
A Connecticut P.I. enjoys the spy life.

Gil Whitlock wears a leather jacket and aviator shades. On his website; he poses toughly in front of a black sedan, arms crossed and chin tipped slightly upward. His face, complete with husky moustache, has the jaded, callous glaze of a man who's seen it all and perhaps he has. Whitlock is a private investigator, based about 25 miles outside of New Haven in Newtown, Connecticut. Fifteen years ago, armed with several decades of crime-fighting experience, raw determination, and a big dream., he founded Associated Research and Investigations, Ltd.

In person, Whitlock has none of the swagger that one might expect from his digital identity. Paternal, earnest, and instantly likeable, he says things like "silliness" and "gee, that's cool." He talks slowly, chewing on his words as though mulling over ways to make his work sound exciting. Whitlock is amicably self-effacing, jovially prefacing his interview with "Pardon me, I'm not a Yale graduate." His slick website persona and burly credentials — criminal justice major at Western Connecticut State University, military policeman for the U.S. Army — seem little more than a window display. He runs his private investigation business out of his suburban home and speaks wistfully of a childhood spent idolizing the stars of *Magnum, P.I.*, a TV show featuring the glamorous escapades of a private investigator in Hawaii. "I just thought: 'what a cool way to make a living,"' he remembers.


Whitlock's dream was once to join the FBI. When he talks about it now, he grows prim and matter-of-fact; he knows everything there is to know about the Bureau, and is proud of it. He knows the feds have a series of exacting physical prerequisites, including restrictions on height. "Short agents don't project the right image," explains Whitlock. He launches into a tale of FBI agents caught in a shoot-out after an armored car robbery in Florida. One agent lost his glasses, and, rendered blind and defenseless, was killed while feeling around for his gun. Incidents like these have resulted in the agency's stringent vision requirement. Whitlock has failed it twice. "So that's why I didn't pursue my dream." He concludes the story with a forlorn sigh.

Instead, he went to work for the sheriff's department in Fairfield County. Eventually, he attended the State Police Academy in Connecticut and was sworn in as a police officer with the fraud unit in the labor department. "I did not like working for the state," Whitlock says. "I always had a problem with all the red tape. I spent as much time writing reports about what I was doing during the day as I spent doing it." He felt all the glamour and romance of his childhood fantasy — high-speed chases, stealth investigations — fading into a relentless bureaucratic labyrinth. Looking to avoid a wearily plodding professional future, Whitlock did some research, talked to some investigators, and decided to venture out on his own. It was a risk, he knew, to abandon the stability of a life nestled securely in the arms of the state. Gil had to turn in his government-issued car upon his resignation. He recalls that the manager of the garage was unable to believe that anyone would relinquish a free car. "He looked at me like 'are you an effin' moron?"' says Whitlock.


The licensing process to become a private investigator in the state of Connecticut usually takes about six months. It involves a thorough examination by state police, extensive paperwork, fingerprint submission, and five years of full-time experience as an investigator with a law enforcement agency. Then, explains Whitlock, it's all a matter of getting your name out there. His meager staff consists of his fiancee, his son, and a couple of other agents, but it's clear that the venture is primarily Gil's own project. His company tackles an array of legal and personal issues. "This is no normal nine-to-five job," he says with a tinge of bravado.

And unless your business conducts insurance fraud investigations, uncovers relationship infidelity (his website proclaims: "Is your significant other no longer interested in sex? Find out why!"), upbraids deadbeat parents, or uses a polygraph, he's right. It's a vast and varied field. "We're always doing something different," Whitlock explains. "People want to file lawsuits over the silliest things. These days, everyone is so litigious." Whitlock readily launches into colorful accounts of specific investigations — no names included, of course. Once, he got a call from a woman in Israel who had found his site on the internet. She told him that she'd come to him for help because his name meant "joy" in Hebrew, and she was convinced that he would be able to find her mother. She'd been adopted in Canada and believed that her birth mother was living in Connecticut. Adoption cases, Whitlock explains, are difficult, as many of the records are sealed. But in the end, he was able to find the absent parent, who lived just four miles from his home. "Wow, talk about fate," he says, still awestruck. "That is just great."


Recently, another woman contacted




**Title: A Private Investigator's Life**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Whidock with a very different issue. -
She'd been dating someone new, and 
though things weren't serious yet, she had 
thought they were starting to take off. 
When her boyfriend asked her to loan him 
sixty thousand dollars, she agreed. Shortly 
thereafter, as Whitlock pithily puts it, "he 
screwed her and took off." Whidock has 
been charged with the daunting task of 
tracking down the runaway beau. 

Often, insurance companies ask him 
to monitor employees who have allegedly 
been injured so badly on the job that they 
are seeking compensation. In such cases, 
he has videotaped "gravely injured" 
employees waterskiing, playing 18 holes 
of golf, or up on ladders painting houses. 
Whidock often has to testify in court. 
Sometimes, people get angry. ''You think 
about the danger," he says. "But I'm 
trained to use firearms and I have a gun. 
I'm a brown belt in karate. And there's 
always pepper spray if you need it." 

Compared to Whitlock's childhood 
heroes, his investigative tactics are fairly 
standard: 
internet 
research, 
special 
databases, surveillance, which generally 
includes 
videotaping 
and 
following 
people. According to Whitlock, ''It's all 
pretty old-fashioned. Being in the right 
place at the right time. Sometimes nothing 
will happen all day." Other days, he says, 
he'll be out tailing people, making sure 
they don't know they're being followed. 
"Tailing someone is really an art," he 
adds. Tracing devices are a legal grey 
area, so he stays away from them. But he 
does use night-vision goggles and certain 
specialized cameras, which he describes 
with boyish gusto as "all the little toys 
which make it fun." 

Whidock's 
exploits 
have 
attracted 
some -local attention. Several years ago, 
The Newtown Bee ran an article outlining 
Whidock's successful mission to track 
down the girlfriend of a dead soldier. 
In the photograph, he poses at a 
cluttered desk, hands clasped solemnly 
over mounds of- paperwork. With his 
lopsided smile, button-down shirt, and 
wire-rimmed glasses, he looks every inch 
the suburban dad 
which, in fact, he is. 

Whitlock has two sons and one daughter, 
all of whom are already out of the house. 
His voice swells with pride as he describes 
his daughter 
she works in a nursing 
home, "just brightening people's lives"-
his younger son studying to be a surveyor, 
and his eldest son, who now runs his own 
private investigation business in Rhode 
Island. 

At 55 years old, Whitlock is salt-and-
pepper-haired, somewhat paunchy, not 
quite the smooth-talking, sharp-shooting 
FBI agent that he once imagined. But he 
has worked ·long and hard at this business 
of intrigue and inquiry, and has managed 
to forge a career for himself that is 
somewhat in line with the aspirations of 
his youth. His biggest challenge has been 
competing with national investigative 
agencies that have a much broader reach 
and impact. Whitlock's small enterprise is 
holding its own, though he worries that 
competition will grow stiffer. "It's kind 
of like how the big supermarkets come 
in and force the mom and pop markets 
out of business." He pauses and exhales, 
pondering. "But," he says with a smile, "I 
guess they call that progress." 


**Title: In ancient fraternity builds a new campus**
**Author: Ben**
**Page number(s): 12**

n ancient fraterni 
builds a new can1 us



**Title: The Modern Dilemma of the Freemasons**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 13-14**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
•
few hours before Dan Gale
Rosen, Harvard sophomore, went
to the Gloucester Freemasonic
Lodge to receive his second degree of
membership in the centuries-old society,
several of his high school friends asked
him to teach them the order's secret
-
handshake. ''I told everyone, 'There is
no handshake, you're being stupid,"' he
remembers. "Then, of course, I went
there and learned the handshake."
For Rosen, one of a growing number
September 2007
'·
of student Freemasons attending elite
colleges in the U.S. and abroad, the
incident seemed indicative of the ancient
organization's modern dilemma.
The
Freemasons face an ongoing struggle to
maintain their traditions in the face of
dwindling membership and mounting
public interest in their more esoteric
activities. ''People ha e preconceived
notions that turn out to be true," Rosen
explains, ''but at the same time, there's
nothing to do with goats, nothing creepy
or weird."

Fueled by such conspiracy-saturated
blockbusters as The Da Vinci Code and
National Treasure,
cultural infatuation
with the Freemasons' rituals and rites is
indeed on the rise. Last year, the House
of the Temple of the Scottish Rite in
Washington, D.C. hosted over 12,000
visitors, a threefold increase from 2003.
'
The chapter offers tours of the temple's
opulent interior, which is adorned with a
massive wooden throne, several copper
13


14
• PROUDTO BE
OF SERVICE TO THE
YALE COMMUNITY
:--
ns, nc.
• Electronic Pre-Press
• Newspapers
• High Quality Sheetfed Publications
• Bindery & Mailing Services
L 11'-.:;\.1,\TCI H IJ CUSTOlv\1 R Sl R\'ICI
Call Peter Howard
1 .800.824.6548
24 Water Street
Palmer, MA 01 069
• •
**The New Breed of Freemasons**
**Author: Ben Tasman**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
An Egyptian-themed relief graces the masonic lodge in Washington, D.C., the 
House of the Temple of the Scottish Rite. 
Province website, too." Even outside the 
academic bubble, the Masons are making 
an unprecedented push for recruitment. 
"There's a big fancy website, radio ads," 
points out Rosen. "There's a TV ad with 
Benjamin Franklin saying 'You can help 
your country. 
· Additionally, 
the 
Masons 
have 
streamlined ascendancy within 
their 
ranks-which move up by numbered 
degrees-by accelerating the process of 
awarding degrees. "There was one time 
when I had to memorize a dialogue to 
move up," recalls Rosen. ''But once I got 
to the rneeting they didn't make me recite 
it, and I advanced anyway." Rosen was 
somewhat disappointed by the experience 
and 
he 
recognized 
its 
underlying 
contradiction: To make the order more 
palatable · to prospective members, the 
Gloucester 
Freemasons 
had 
opted 
to downplay the very rituals that had 
attracted the Harvard sophomore to the 
organization in the first place. In order 
to reach a larger audience, the lodge had. 
pulled back the veil of secrecy that many 
young initiates view as their impetus for 
joining. "I had always been interested 
in secret-society type things 
having 
something I couldn't tell people about, but 
at the same time helping people through 
philanthropy," explains Rosen. For him, 
the ongoing change-of-face within the 
Masonic community seemed out of step 
with the group's intrinsically mysterious 
appeal. An oft-repeated mantra of the 
fraternity, one quoted abundantly in the 
press and alluded to by Rosen, sums up 
the Freemasons' public image for the 
new century: ''We're not a secret society, 
we're a society with secrets." 


William Greene, the Grand Master 
of the Grand Lodge of Connecticut, 
echoes this sentiment. Responsible for 
overseeing the conduct and organization 
of Masonic communities throughout the 
state, Greene describes the current order 
as a charity rather than an underground 
association of arcane rituals and covert 
gatherings. 
Today, 
donate $2 mVJ.ion a day to philanthropic 
causes across the country, raising money 
and awareness for diabetes and cancer 
patients in addition to supporting a host 
of renowned medical facilities. ''We 
have a few secrets, but they're more like 
personal things," notes Greene, who has 
been a member of the fraternity for over 
thirty years. "Even from the beginning, 
the Masons were community-minded. 
The biggest difference is that now we talk 
about it, and before we didn't." According 
to the Grand Master, the group's 
newfound transparency is beginning to 
pay of£ "In the last two years, there's 
been a huge turnaround," he explains. 
"This is the definite start of a surge in 
membership." While Greene says that he 
hasn't explicitly reached out to colleges a.s 
a source of new blood, the organizatior. 
has begun to make extensive use of .e 
internet as a source of informatio 
r 
interested parties. ''Young people s us 
online and appreciate our moral 
d 
our civic-minded agenda," continu. the 
Grand Master. 'We don't actively recruit 
new members, but the website gives 
students a· chance to reach out to us and 
ask us, 'What's this about?' A majority of 
our new members aren't coming from 
Masonic families, as was traditionally 
the case, but from a personal interest in 
what we do." 


But do the benevolent 
and perhaps 
surprisingly public 
behaviors of the 
real-life Masons gel with the expectations 
of youthful inductees, raised on the 
fabulist tales of Nicholas Cage and Dan 
Brown? Greene, for one, pinpoints the 
present generation of Freemasons as 
unusually well-informed. "The younger 
members coming to us today are used to 
finding things out about our organization 
before they ask," he relates. "They know 
so much more about it from the internet 
and research they've conducted on their 
own." Indeed, the process by which Rosen 
became a Freemason reflects Greene's 
account almost exacdy. As no one in his 
immediate family was affiliated with the 
order, the student looked into his local 
lodge independent of adult influence, 
eventually asking his car mechanic about 
joining. "He probably told me a bit more 
than he should have," Rosen recalls. 
"But he ended up sponsoring me when 1 
applied for membership." 


Still, Rosen's self-motivated approach 
to Freemasonry is hardly typical. Within 
collegiate lodges the process of inquction 
is inevitably more peer-oriented, with the 
order drawing membership from a pre-
existing academic and social community. 
"Membership of the University Lodge 
is open only to matriculated members 
of Oxford University," explains Bourne-
Taylor. "In truth, such discrimination is 
contrary to the spirit of Freemasonry, but 
informal rules usually work out for the 
best. It is common knowledge that like 
groups attract. Within the lodge, we see 
this happening, too, as one new member 
will encourage the other members of 
the boat crew to join.'~ But despite this 
group mentality, Freemasons insist_ that 
they foster the individualism of younger, 
tech-savvy 
gen~rations 
they 
simply 
want to provide them with a venue for 
old-fashioned male-bonding. Above all, 
the group has made a name for itself as 
a cotlltJ}unity of exceptional individuals. 
''I just got back from a conference in 
September 2007 
in Washington, D.C.," remarks Greene, 
"and I was sitting a table away from Buzz 
Aldrin and John Glenn. All these great 
people· were Masons, but they didn't talk 
about it. Now, people are becoming more 
aware of the history of our organization." 


Rosen, on the other hand, feels that the 
Freemasons' lack of elitism correlates 
direcdy with their appeal: "They'll pretty 
much accept anyone unless they're a 
convicted rapist." 


Bourne-Taylor emphasizes a slighdy 
different angle: "I think that, in the 
changing world in which we live, Masonry 
is still very much a cardinal point whence 
students can take their bearings. It is 
that well-loved book that orte can take 
from the shelf, read with pleasure from 
a well-thumbed page, and replace, to 
be waiting for one's next opportUnity, 
that disinterested friendship that has 
nothing to prove and does not place 
barriers of religion or politics between 
its members. Its ritual seems to fascinate 
these clever young men; they are a joy to 
see and hear." 


It is important not to overstate the 
presence of undergraduates within the 
larger Masonic community 
Bourne-
Taylor concedes that students probably 
account for only a "miniscule proportion" 
of the Grand Lodge of . England but 
burgeoning 
influence 
on 
venerable society is beginning to take 
effect. "I'm hoping that some of these 
y~ung people like what we do and say 'I'd 
like to be associated with these men,"' 
says Greene. "I hope that this is the start 
of a tsunami of new members joining the 
Masons." 


Ben T asman, a sophomore in Berke~ College, is 
a Web Editor of TNJ.




**Title:  (Untitled)**
**Author: (Unknown)**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
;l;li; 
~ ''I ,_ 
{ 
~ 
' . 
• 


<br>

**Page number(s): 20**

• -
' '. ' ,. 
' 
t 
,, 
"· 
' ' 
l 
> 
.,. 
,. • 
" 
••• 
•• 



**Page number(s): 21**




**Title: The Fair Haven Farmers' Market**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
22 
ummer days afford Fred 
Monahan 
little 
ti rne 
to 
consider the lilies of the field. 
As a dedicated vendor at four New 
Haven farmers' markets, he is too 
busy with the land's othe~, edible 
bounty: the sweetness of corn, the 
firmness of squash, the odor of 
garlic, the length of cucumbers, 
and the lush, juicy ripeness of 
·peaches. Today, he is particularly 
concerned with peppers. And, on 
account of it being Thursday, he 
is out of his element. 

A broad-faced, affable man, 
Monahan is dressed in the satne 
n~vy hoodie and tan overalls that 
he wore to market the day before. 
He and his wife, .Stacia, own 
Stone Gardens Farm, 33 acres 
of sweet corn and vegetables 
in nearby Shelton, CT. Today, 
however, he finds himself in a 
• 
more urban environment. Each 
Thursday in Fair Haven, as Grand 
Avenue prepares to plunge across 
the Quinnipiac River and scale 
the hills of Fair Haven Heights, 
a cluster of white tents and 
a rainbow of picnic blankets 
assemble across· the wide, grassy 
expanse of riverbank. Here, a 
three-year-old 
not-for-profit 
named CitySeed hosts the most 
unusual of its four weekly farmers' 
markets. And here, set against the 
bucolic wooded knolls and white 
steeples of the opposite bank and 
surrounded by a predominantly 
Hispanic neighborhood, Monahan 
is nonplussed. 

Unable to ·speak Spanish, h~ 
says that the language barrier 
at the Fair Haven market "can 
make you want to throw your 
hands up and walk away." He has 
mastered the nurnbers 
through 
twenty, at least 
and the narnes 
of certain vegetables, but is at 
a loss in the face of rarer, more 
complex questions. Confronted 
with an elderly woman who wants 
to know cuantas semanas tienen 
sus habaneras, he can only shake 
his head and observe, dryly, that 
"these markets are very good for 
.. 
. ·.: . 
::•.«' 
-;::\ 
stress management." The age of 
a habanera pepper determines 
how hot it tastes; unable to get an 
answer, the woman is reluctant to 
purchase the small, vibrantly orange 
vegetable. Monahan, though here 
to sell peppers, is not concerned. 
Business at the CitySeed markets is 
regularly brisk; another customer 
will likely buy him out of peppers: 
habanera, bell, and jalapeno. If 
not, he describes how he would 
go about eating them 
slicing 
off the tops, stuffing them with 
prosciutto and provolone from a 
neighboring stall, and marinating 
them in olive oil. ''That's the 
only vegetables we get to eat, the 
ones people don't buy," he says. 
"I haven't eaten a good vegetable 
all 
"A 
. 
sununer. 
passmg customer, 
car 1 ing off a particularly nice set 
of bell peppers, describes hiln as 
"a prince among men." 

CitySeed, 
like 
any 
civic-
tninded not-for-profit, is full of 
such princes. Its three full-ritne 
employees Jennifer McTiernan, 
Benjarnin Gardner, and Nicole 
Berube 
wander 
each 
market, 
their faces exuding cheer from 
behind woven baskets, jars of 
honey, stacks of recipes, and 
• • 
loaves of bread. It is their work, 
and particularly the dedication 
of Berube, the program director 
responsible 
for 
the Thursday 
market, that brings Monahan and 
his pregnant wife to Fair Haven 
week after week. They know that 
underneath this idyll, under the 
mounds of red tomatoes and 
clusters of lettuce, is a struggle for 
the soul of America's food system 
and the health of its inner cities. 

Here in Fair Haven, CitySeed is 
on the front lines of the battle 
for farmers' markets 
a battle 
that pits small farmers, charitable 
foundations, and the inner-city 
poor against the diverse specters 
of agribusiness and urban decay. 
Viewed for thirty years as an icon 
of the liberal bourgeoisie and 
a I 
for the rich, farmers' 
markets are being transformed 
from a symbol of yuppie excess 
to a concrete medium of renewal 
and public welfare. CitySeed's 
three other markets are self-. 
supporting 
the farmers 
make 
enough money each week to 
cover their costs and rirne. But 
here, against the edge of a major 
thoroughfare in a depressed New 
England 
manufacturing 
town, 


--- Page 23 ---

a novel idea is in the midst of 
its third and strongest season. 

Government spending, charitable 
donations, and a tiny not-for-
profit are giving sm:all farmers 
and low-income city dwellers, the 
widespread underdogs of our rural 
and urban landscapes, the chance 
to help each other out 
and to 
plant, in the midst of the city, the 
seed of a connnunity. 

years before this idea 
took root, Jennifer McTiernan 
stood 
at 
CitySeed's 
inaugural 
market in Wooster Square, the 
city's Italian district. Then, as 
now, she was an upbeat twenty-
something with chestnut hair 
falling straight past her shoulders. 
A graduate of the Yale Class of 
1999 with a B.A. in American 
Studies, she had returned to New 
Haven with a baby daughter, a 
year of experience in an organic 
restaurant, and the determination 
to bring New Haven residents and 
farmers together. On the 17th 
of July, 2004, she was CitySeed's 
founder and sole employee; today 
she is its executive director. As the 
New Haven Register's ''Person of 
the Year 2006," her title, increasing 
visibility, and expanding staff are 
testament to the · organization's 
success. 

At the market on that 
a 
or 
first Saturday, New Haven Mayor 
John DeStefap.o, Jr., a camera 
tearn from News ChannelS, and a 
bevy of excited passersby watched 
as 
CitySeed 
board 
members 
costumed 
plush tomatoes, 
September 2007 
purple eggplants, and ears of corn 
danced in front of vendors from 
seven organic and pesticide-free 
farms. By the end of its first day, 
the market featured many vendors 
who had sold out of produce so. 
early that they . phoned spouses 
or farm hands for emergency 
deliveries. By the end of its first 
season, the market boasted regular 
attendance 
from 
dedicated 
customer base and more than 
15 farmers. New Haven County, 
home to more members of the 
Connecticut Farm Bureau than 
any other in the state, finally had 
the market it deserved. 

· 
Over the course of 2005, the 
Wooster Square market would be 
joined by not only the Fair Haven 
market, but also by start-ups in a 
corner of Edgewood Park and in 
front of City Hall. Each has its 
own flavor, its distinct composition 
of vendors and customers. The 
Wooster Square 
market is 
destination; neighborhood Italians 
and graduate students are joined by 
far-flung shoppers from Hamden 
and Meriden, car keys dangling at 
their hips. Edgewood Park is a more 
local affair, while the downtown 
market lures a more suit-and-tie 
clientele. The vendors know their 
customer base and target the 
appropriate market; there is more 
food to grab and go on Church 
cro 
oun 
Street, more high-end products at 
Wooster Square. While vendors at 
the first CitySeed markets hailed 
from within 25 miles of the city, 
many now spend over an hour 
with their foot on the gas pedal, 
cross-pollinating the Elm City 
with food from farms across the 
Nutmeg State. In Wooster Square, 
Two Guys From Woodbridge sells 
hydroponic microgreens from the 
oldest farm in Hamden. It has been 
joined by Beltane Farm, which 
owns forty goats in Lebanon and 
drives more than sixty miles to sell 
its wool, n1ilk, and fresh chevre in 
New Haven. 

But neither of these farmers 
comes to Fair Haven, where 
customers expect more everyday 
offerings. ''We sell things people 
.regularly cook with all the tirne," 
Berube explains. "They expect 
corn. They expect fruit. Swiss 
chard probably isn't your biggest 
seller here." 

These customer demands make 
the Fair Haven market a bit less 
attractive to farmers. But regardless 
of consumer preference, capable 
vendors at every market can recoup 
ninety cents per dollar spent on 
their goods 
a sight better share 
than what they make selling to 
supermarkets, where a chain of 
middlemen and marketers leave 
farmers to gross only twenty cents 
off every dollar. 

The population of Fair Haven 
has been majority-immigrant for 
most of the previous century, and 
many of the Puerto Ricans and 
Africans who dominate its cultural 
een 
ren 
zn 
landscape 
are 
ill-accustomed 
to farmers' n1arkets, unused to 
New England produce, merely 
proficient at English, and without 
the money to spend on lnxur y 
foods. Their purchases do not 
23 


--- Page 24 ---

always allow vendors the money 
to justify transportation costs and 
time spent away from the fields. 

To draw farmers to Fair Haven, 
CitySeed has worked to define and 
operate a "community-supported 
market." To bring together two 
groups very much in need of 
other, 
the 
organization 
. coordinates large produce orders 
from local businesses 'to cover 
farmers' operating costs. Each 
week, CitySeed fills boxes with a 
melange of produce from three 
participating farms 
"a good 
number for us," Berube says, "a 
good number for logistics"-
which 
it then 
distributes 
customers who have . arranged in 
advance for a long-term share. It's 
a sort of season ticket. 

In 2006, employees at three 
organiza~ons were targeted for the 
progn;un: Yale's Rudd Center for 
Food Policy and Obesity, the law 
firm Wiggin & Dana, and the Fair 
Haven Community Health Center. 
Together, purchases of ten- . and 
twenty-dollar 
shares . grossed 
$7,111 forCitySeedand the farmers 
at its Fair Haven market. This 
summer, Berube drives the newly-
purchased "CitySeed-mobile" 
gray-green Honda Element with 
peas stenciled on the side 
two more participating offices: a 
group at the Yale Forestry School 
and Junta for Progressive Action, 
a community Latino organization 
and CitySeed's partner at the Fair 
Haven market that offers micro-
loans to neighborhood residents, 
24 
covering the start-up costs of a 
booth to sell jewelry or crafts. She 
is proud of her new infrastructure 
and her snazzy delivery method, 
and, thanks to a higher handling 
fee and increased interest in the 
new 15-dollar shares, expects the 
community-supported market to 
gross even more this year. But, 
Berube says, "I haven't done any 
data gathering yet." She laughs 
· ruefully, a little tired. "That's for 
the end of the season." 

y the time she retires to the 
office and begins crunching 
numbers, Berube will have hosted 
a whole series of events at the 
Fair Haven market. While the 
commuhity-supported 
market 
system 1s an 11novat1ve structure 
responsible · for much of the 
location's success, it is not at 
the heart of her effort. Rather, 
those purchases by the relatively 
well-off are designed to·· ensure 
that farmers .continue coming· to 
Fair Haven and continue selling 
to those who can't afford to 
have a weekly share delivered to 
their office. Their money, along 
with a well-tailored . government 
program and the support of other 
foundations and not-for-profits, 
ensures that the Fair Haven market 
is a worthwhile venture for more 
e 
than the English-speaking vendors 
who frequent it 
the community's 
consumers, too, are busy exploring 
its potential. 

One of the initiatives that 
keeps these customers coming 
back is advertised prominently at 
the booth on a flapping, plastic 
banner, whose blue lettering picks 
out the following message: 
"We gladly accept food stamps/ 
EBT. Get your tokens here. 
((Con mucho gusto aceptamos cupones 
para alimentos / EBT. Obtenga sus 
fiches (tokens) aqui. 
"(Connecticut 
Department 
of Social Services. Caring for 
Connecticut.)" 

This message has been posted 
at each of the week's markets, but 
nowhere is it more important to 
business than in Fair Haven. The 
steady stream of professionals that 
characterized the other markets 
has been· replaced by a crowd of 
complete families, or women with 
young· children in tow. 

The Fair Haven Community 
Health Center, one of the three 
organizations participating in the 
community-supported 
. market, 
contributes to this market r in 
other ways: its patrons are often 
marketgoers. The Haven Free 
Clinic, 
collaborative 
project 
of Yale undergraduates, medical 
students, and the Center, has run a 
booth at the Thursday markets and 
taken children on tours. Providing 
information rather than selling 
goods, Neil Desai, Med. '09, has 
tempted kids with crayons or an 
tS t 
-
•• 
. . 
organic recipe of the week:---
"crayons 
actually 
work better 
than food" · and then educated 
them about balanced diets and the 
importance of ' exercise. Eager to 
help out, he watched the CitySeed



**Title: CitySeed's Fair Haven Market**
**Author: Jonathan Dach**
**Page number(s): 25-26**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I
booth while Berube delivered
boxes to members of the CSM.
Fresh vegetables, sustainable or
not, are important to a healthy
diet, and the market provides a
rare opportunity for lower-income
households to access them. "It's
not just buying food here, it's being
out here," he says, describing the
virtues of CitySeed's endeavor.
"Usually, you think of farmers'
markets as,
frankly,
a yuppie
thing."

That the Fair Haven market
breaks this mold is credit not only
to CitySeed and its donors but
also to a pair of federal programs:
Food Stamps and WIC Checks.
The former, distributed under an
entitlement program established
by the federal government in 197.1,
are no longer issued on paper
but embedded in a swipe card as
an Electronic Benefit Transfer.
25.7 rni11ion Americans receive
a maxirnum of $155 dollars per
person in food stamps each month.
The same wireless technology
that permits wealthy marketgoers
to use their credit cards allows
those closer to the poverty line
to pay for fresh, nutritious food.
September 2007


The CitySeed booth, equipped
with the correct device, allows
customers to spend their food
stamps in exchange for wooden
disks, each the approxirnate size
and exact worth of a silver dollar.
Those tokens are accepted at all
other stalls. CitySeed markets were
the first in the state to accept such
wireless payment and to open its
stalls to those on welfare.
More
prevalent than
food
stamps are WIC checks
oversized
pieces of paper issued by the
Special Supplemental Nutrition
Program for Women, Infants, and
Children. A · grant a
· · stered
by local officials, WIC spends
nearly five billion dollars each year
providing for over eight mi11ion
low-income, nutritionally at-risk
pregnant women, breastfeeding
women, and children through the
age of five. Forty-five percent of
all American children benefit from
the program.

Since 1992, a subset of the
grant has been earmarked for the
WIC Farmers' Market Nutrition
Program, which provides over 2.5
n1illion people with packets of
between five and ten three-dollar
checks that can be redeemed
only for locally-grown produce.
Operative under the USDA in 38
states, the District of Columbia,
Puerto Rico, Guam, and four
Indian tribal organizations, WIC
FMNP allocated $409,879 to more
than fifty thousand Connecticut
residents in 2005.

The program has been criticized
for linuting the choices of those
below the poverty line and forcing
them to purchase uncooked food
· that busy schedules may not allow·
them to prepare. In President
Bush's budget proposal for 2005,
spending for the Farmers' Market
Nutrition Program was cut by
26°/o, to twenty mi11ion dollars-
an action less severe than the
administration's earlier statements
that the
program should be
eliminated entirely.

But WIC checks have survived
their critics and federal budget
cuts . thanks
to
overwhelming
support from the public health
and agricultural communities. Its
advocates condemn the President
and
his
fellow
antagonists
for trumpeting the cause of
agribusiness
money authorized
as WI C checks flows predotninantly
into the pockets of small farmers-
and respond to concerns about
underprivileged
consurners'
Jirnited freedom of choice by
pointing to the comparatively
small amount of money changing
hands
just slightly more than
one-half of one percent of total
WIC spending, to a maxirnum
of thirty dollars per person each
season. In all, the produce and
meat farmers benefiting from the
WIC FMNP programs receive less
than one-tenth of one percent
of the billions of subsidy dollars
the federal government gives to
cereal, fiber, and other conunodity
producers.

Berube says it wouldn't be· a
market without Monahan; he says
it wouldn't be a market without
WIC. He esrirnates that "a good
percentage, ntaybe seventy" of his


income at the Thursday markets
is in WI C checks. His wife agrees,
adding that this is nearly three
times the percentage of other area
markets. The Monahans make sure
that all of their goQds are neatly
priced in multiples of three to ease
the transaction
no ; matter the

language. What's more,? by selling
produce directly to consumers
rather
than
wholesalers,
Monahan and his fellow vendors
are able to offer prices competitive
with local grocery stores and still
make a livable profit. Consul)lers
also benefit, able to eat food gro_wn
locally and picked recently. ' If
there is an element of paternalism.
in a system that requires those on\
federal assistance to eat nutritious
food, most recipients are
· · g to
accept it along with the checks.

In
a
world
increasingly
conscious
of
the
benefits
ecologically-minded
production,
CitySeed's
broad ·
perspective ·accounts for both
the environment and nutrition.
Though all the produce sold at
Thursday's. markets is Connecticut
grown, it is not entirely organic;
thi's is fine with Neil and the Haven
Free Clinic. "It's vegetables," he
says. "So it doesn't really matter to
me if it's sustainable or not." More
paramount is "food security," an
increasingly widespread term that
describes a community's access
· to an affordable, balanced diet. A
report by the Connecticut Food
Policy Council in 2005 ranked New
Haven 163rd out of 169 cities in
the state and criticized its poor bus
routes for making grocers hard
to reach for the working poor.
CitySeedis fixing the transportation
gap another way, bringing food
from the farmers who need to sell
it to consumers who need to buy
it. Berube says that this season,
they're succeeding. "It's a better
market this year. If we manage to
keep it like this, I'll be happy. And
the community will be happy."
establishment
that
community
26


transtnutation of isolated vendors
and sboppers into friends, df •41
aitd picnicking from". be burrito
cart a
neighborhoo~ restaurant
destination
has been one of
CitySeed's ambitions from the
:'s'om~one broughttheir'~4Cophone
outset. Th~ organization believes ·.. apd .started laying Peat}~l tunes."
farmers' m~rkets can replicate this' \ Stacia Mona .an loved it. :.tt's one
success. thr~ugh a commitment '. of . my favorite
~ :placemaking," a neologism
to,," she_ s~ys. "It's fes
~ :There
1Serves a shorthand for the
each week, you might sa
Stone
intric~~e proces?es contributing to
Gardens what ~ the
sts
the creation of successful public
of its · "Intimid~tor"
her
spaces.

Many vendprs appreciate this
They just march right
goal. One i~ . Stan,. a fairly regular
A CitySeed employee,
vendor
~t ~·the Wednesday and
the Fair Haven market
Sunday ma:tkets who'· may one
tan mastiff, wants to kn
day sell in F~ir HayeJ;l as well. He
Stacia's husband will do
sports gray hair, a r~d flannel shirt,
winter, while his fields
·
.~nd a friendly .d\sposids>n. To each
fallow. "Drink!" he replies.
person who pass~, his vc?jce twangs
or outside?" the employee
ou~,.
calling,
'~H\_>wdyr , Wouldja
to know. "Both!" And then, ......
like · a sample? . Homem\l,de." It
the spring, Fred Monahan and ~"
drawls._the first syll~'b!e oflthe)ast
w?~d out nice aJ:?.,d . s!?~ \almost
eliding the first m.:
Ho.emade."
for there, · from July
October,
Thursdays
on
Stan is chipper and 'suppqr#ve of
waterfront bustle with shoppers,
CitySeed's work, mind(ul not only
onlookers, and small children,
of its benefits for farmers tput for
all of whom leave laden with a
city residents. "It's the bes\ thing
for a neighborhood," he proqairns.
"There's a great civilizing infh\ence
the markets have."
Each ~ek,
on his table next to a cooler. ~pd
new sense of community spirit
a bowl of white corn, chips, a
and a sack of fresh, sustainable
sign advertises Stan's Salsa in ~.tty
produce.
of several varieties
mild, h
t~ ~.
pineapple, and fiery. Another· sigpt *
has been taped on white prihte'rt,
paper to the rear windshield of \
his aqua Dodge Shadow, offering \
a favorite quote of his mother's,
\
attributed to George Washington.
The sign reads, in the large, black
Times New Roman of a standard
word processor, '~griculture is the
most useful, the most healthful,
the most noble profession." His
tires read, in the raised rubber of
the brand name, ''Revelation."

CitySeed's Fair Haven market
is a powerful testament to the role
of public spaces in community-
building. '~ of our farmers,"
Berube says, "are willing to talk to
people." The market encourages
shoppers to linger, listening to
Jonf!Y Dach1 a serli(Jr in Jonathan Edwards Col-
lege1 is the Editor-ilr..Chief of TN].



**Title: Reflections on a transparent life**
**Author: Emily Koh**
**Page number(s): 27**

n a ridge in New Canaan stands
a house where the light shoots
straight through. This past June,
the New York Times dedicated a quarter
of its «House & Home" section to this
Glass House, a <2onnecticut landmark in
which architect Philip Johnson and his
partner David Whitney lived for over half
a century. The article, entitled «Behind
the Glass Wall: Memories of life and
death in an architectural masterwork,"
consisted largely of personal accounts
from guests Johnson had entertained in
the house during the years he lived there.
They included that of Barbara Jakobson,
a trustee of the Museum of Modern
Art, who remembered that "there was
a certain ritualistic aspect to visiting the
Glass House. The greeting; to the lunch;
the walk; the finish, so Philip could
take his nap and work. You always felt
welcome, and you always knew when it
was over."

They included that of architect Frank
Gehry. c'It made sense: their activity, their
dress, the room and the site, it all had a
symbiotic relationship that was uncanny.
It was grand and generous and eloquent,
and all of a piece."

Another visitor, another memory.
Robert A.M.
tern, dean of the Yale
School of Architecture: «Clutter? Don't
be illy.
othing "\vas ever out of place in
27



**Title: The Glass House**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
the Glass House. Every flower knew its 
proper position in 'the vase." 
The Glass House was the last in 
which Johnson lived, but certainly not the 
first. He spent his childhood summers 
in an Ohio country house of the Greek 
Revival style where his mother projected 
"lantern" slides of Italian paintings upon 
the walls to educate her children about 
art: When Johnson enrolled at Harvard 
in 1920, he continued to impose art 
upon walls, hanging reproductions of 
Simone Martini and Piero della Francesca 
around his dorm room. He remained· an 
undergraduate longer than most 
seven 
years 
due to a nervous breakdown, after 
which a Boston neurologist advised him 
to "take six months" and return home to 
Ohio, where he read two detective stories 
a day between tears. 

Johnson took the six months, returned 
to school, and completed his degrees in 
philosophy and G reek only to re-enroll at 
Harvard in 1940, this time at its Graduate 
School of Design, where he conceived 
and constructed a house on Cambridge's 
Ash Street for his graduate thesis. It 
was composed of a wooden rectangle 
covering half the lot and one glass wall 
28 
. 
that enclosed the front garden in such a 
way as to make it appear part of the living 
room. 

As this house was not merely a project 
but a home in which to live, Johnson 
erected a nine-foot wall between it and 
the street for privacy, a move that upset 
his neighbors and provoked unsuccessful 
lawsuits requesting its removal. Many 
people disliked the Ash Street house. 
Even Johnson admits, "People felt that 
it didn't jibe with the street, and they 
were right 
it didn't." But the parties 
he threw there, replete with fine drinks, 
hors d' oeuvres, and high conversation, 
were grand enough to triumph over the 
criticism and the house itself attractive 
enough to sell for 24,000 dollars, the 
approximate cost of its construction. 

Following design school graduation 
and 
the 
sale of the 
Ash 
Street 
home, Johnson moved to 751 Third 
Avenue, a small house in Manhattan that 
he had rented in 1939 and in which his 
younger sister, Theodate, had lived after 
his return to Cambridge. (I'heodate 
affectionately 
dubbed 
7 51 
"Hidden 
House," because of its location behind a 
row of apartment buildings fronting the 
street.) 

In the late 1940s, Johnson, desiring a 
break from city life, searched for property 
·· in New Canaan, a Connecticut suburb. 
The five acres to which a local realtor 
directed him were part of Ponus Ridge-
" a nearly impenetrable tangle of woods, 
·mostly of second and third growth 
relieved by an occasional stretch of field 
grass and some older trees," which sloped 
gently downward from the road. The 
land stood on the edge of a tumble of 
boulders, beyond which lay a vast view 
of the Rippowam Valley. Within an hour 
of his first visit to the site, Johnson had 
walked down from the road, reached 
the field grass, surveyed the valley, and 
bought the five acres. 

ohnson's five acres have since grown 
to 47~ The stretch of field grass now 
a brick guest house, a pool, a lake 
pavilion, painting and sculpture galleries, 
a concrete and aluminum entrance gate, 
' 
and a library which houses Johnson's 
collection of architecture books. It 
includes a number of small pavilions-a 
"Ghost House" composed completely of 
chain-link, a tower 35 feet tall inspired by 
Balanchine choreography and named for 
Ijncoln Kirstein (to dirnb it, one observer 
noted, "you have to choreograph your 
own dance''), a gatehouse composed of 
red and black "warped" blocks called "Da 
Monsta" and 
the site's namesake 
Glass House. The property, recently 
labeled a National Trust Historic Site, 
opened to the public in June. Over five 
hundred guests attended the Inaugural 
Gala Picnic, which included an open 
house, gourmet lunch, and performance 
by The Merce Cunningham Dance 
Company. 

All 4 7 acres are now collectively 
called the Philip ohnson Glass House, 
but the transparent structure remains a 
single room built by Johnson in 1949. It 
is 56 feet long and 32 feet wide, the space 
defined by a floor, a flat roof, and four 
walls made entirely of glass. Steel coluniils 
at each corner and at the center of the 
house's long sides allow for a pristine 
· interior. Excluding these piers, the only 
element that obstructs one's latitudinal 
view is a cylindrical brick structure, 
which occupies a protninent spot in the 
northeast corner and protrudes slightly 


--- Page 29 ---

.. ---
-
above the roof. One half of it contains 
a bathroom, the other a fireplace. The 
cylinder divides th~ "liv,ing room" and 
"kitchen" 
a head-high cabinet and table-
higit&gljlnt-e; 
~rqm, the "bedroom," also 
located ,~~ the house's northern end. The 
Glass I;fouse contains only two works of 
art: a sculpture of two women by Elie 
N adelman displayed near the kitchen 
and "The Death of Phocion," a painting 
by Nicolas Poussin on an easel by the 
fireplace. It was, from 1949 until his death 
in 2905, Johnson's weekend and then 
primarY. residence and has been hailed by 
l 
many ~ince its construction as one of the 
greatest architectural achievements of 
the twentieth century. 

hroughout the complex, one senses 
the strict routine by which Johnson 
and Whitney lived. Nothing was ever out of 
place in the Glass House. It was all of a piece. 
According to biographer Franz Schulze, 
Johnson only permitted slight changes 
to tl}f; _ ,Pl~cement of items and furniture 
inside the house once he had set them 
down. The dining room table remains 
where it stood when he first entertained 
at it; the writing desk where it stood-when 
he first wrote at it; and the bed where it 
stood when he first slept in it. Even when 
reading, Johnson would not move "as 
much as a pillow to prop up his head." 
Anecdotes such as this surround the 
Glass House, reiterating the constancy 
of the place. There is the story of the 
guest who, without thought, dropped her 
handbag on the table-high counter and 
was prompdy scolded: ''You can't put that 
there!" There is the tale, told by biographer 
Hilary Lewis, of the 
photographer 
who moved some objects 
an ashtray, 
a 
malachite 
box 
around Johnson's 
Barcelona Table during a photo shoot 
to achieve a better shot. The story goes 
that Whitney walked quietly over to the 
table and moved the ashtray and the box 
back to their original positions. "Johnson 
nodded to the photographer and said, 'I 
think it's better."' 

These stories paint Johnson as stiff, an 
obsessive who would not tolerate any way 
but his own. Yet his house was anything 
but lift;less and severe. Other narratives, 
~ 
thos,~. of friends closest to him, portray 
Johnson as full of humor and possessed 
of distinct taste. To his neighbor and 
September 2007 
writer Fran Lebowitz, he was "a big lover 
of ·gossip and wit and other people's 
problems." To artist Frank Stella, he was 
"ferociously entertaining," and to Port 
Draper, the engineer responsible for 
maintaining his property, "the most fun 
person I ever worked for." They knew 
the Johnson who thiew a good party. The 
Johnson who hosted weekend lunches 
for up to 14 and whose frequent visitors 
included Andy Warhol and Jasper Johns. 
The Johnson who invited the Velvet 
Underground over to jam, and who 
pissed off the neighbors when the music · 
grew too loud. The Johnson who, on the 
stormy New Canaan night that a branch 
crashed through his wall, shattering glass 
and allowing rain to pour in over his head, 
sat stunned and blinking in his chair, then 
laughed. 

onsider one of Johnson's own stories: 
'--" At the age of 13, he accompanied 
his mother to France and saw Chartres 
Cathedral 
one of his "great architectural 
experiences" along with the Parthenon 
and Kyoto's Ryoanji Temple. "There 
was a funeral going on," he told Calvin 
Tomkins of The New Yorker. "I was so 
moved I don't know why I wasn't dead." 
This was, however, only the first of many 
occasions on which Johnson was moved 
by architecture. Throughout his career, 
he sought to recapture that pathos with 
every design and structure he devised. 
"To be in the presence of a great work 

a focus on functionalism, a movement 
characterized by a break from ornamental 
historicism,_ the use of new technologies 
and building materials like glass and 
reinforced concrete, the insistence of 
"structural integrity," - and the notion 
that a building's form must follow its 
function. Johnson delineated these rules 
himself, first in a 
193~ exhibit at the 
Museum of Modern Ait titled "Modern 
Architecture," and then in The International 
Style: Architecture Since 1922, a book he 
authored that same year with architectural 
historian Henry Russell Hitchcock, which 
gave the subsequent movement its name. 

" 
Later, when he stopped preaching 
the art and started to practice it, he 
sang a decidedly different tune. Johnson 
determined that architecture should be 
created not to serve a functional purpose 
but to evoke a feeling. In 1977, he told 
Tomkins that he was "beginning to think 
that maybe the terms 'form' and 'function' 
were always meaningless." "What is 
function in Chartres?" he asked. ''When 
the people come in and see the .high altar, 
with the ceiling over a hundred feet up, 
and experience all that religious emotion, 
is that aesthetics or is it function?" 

He told Charlie Rose, in a special 
interview to mark his ninetieth birthday, 
that architecture at its best should 
exhilarate people as a symphony does. 
When you listen to a great symphony, 
he explained, you feel "you could float, 
but you can't analyze why." The test of 
( 
at 
cou 
0 
ut 
nson cone. u e J 
of architecture is such a satisfaction that 
you can go hungry for days," Johnson 
said. "To create a feeling such as wine in 
Chartres Cathedral when I was thirteen is 
the aim of architecture." 

There was a degree to which Johnson 
always infused architecture with ontology, 
a reasonable approach for a scholar of 
philosophy and classics who committed 
himself to the arts late in the game. And 
yet for all his philosophical influences, 
Johnson broke into the profession with 
• zn t e tumm '' 
architecture was equally intuitive: "build 
a building, go inside and let it wrap itself 
around you." A 
visceral connection 
should transpire between an individual 
and the place he inhabits. "What more 
could you ask of architecture," Johnson 
concluded, but to "feel very good in the 
tummy.'' 

In an essay, "living in Glass Houses: 
Domesticity, Interior Decoration, and 
Environmental 
Aesthetics," 
Kevin 
Melchionne of the 
ational Museum of 


--- Page 30 ---

•• 
,.,,, 
i 
.. 
American Art wrote the following about 
Johnson's famous home: "The successful 
occupant of the Glass House or any 
other pristine, severe, and hyperorganized 
environment lives in the house in perfect 
4armony with its formal configuration 
and artistic meaning." I think it's better, 
Johnson said, when the ashtray and 
box were moved back to their original 
positions on the table: words spoken by 
an occupant in perfect harmony with the 
formal configuration and artistic meaning 
of his home. 

here's no evidence of tchotchkes [in the 
Glass House]. 
Visitors 
are 
alWt!JS 
astounded at the discipline it must have taken 
to be so spare. " 
-Christy MacLear, executive director of 
the Philip Johnson Glass House 

When I read that quotation in the 
Times this past June, I recalled a slow 
summer afternoon I spent talking with 
my grandmother in which she asked how, 
if I followed through with my intention 
30 
to clean my closet of all my old dresses, 
would I remember where I had come 
from. This seemed an odd question at. 
the time, but I see now it was not. She 
had sewn my past into fabric, considered 
these clothes material artifacts, physical 
reminders of who I once was. She wanted 
to ensure .that the person I had become 
did not lose touch with the person I had 
been. 

asse 
unique point, one in which the necessity 
to retain ties to the past becomes 
undesirable or irrelevant and the decision 
to let it all go seems a wiser, cathartic 
alternative. The Glass House was and 
remains devoid of clutter. The way in 
which Johnson chose to live there-
• spare, no tchotchkes---divorced him 
from his own narrative. He relinquished 
the "lantern" slides and reproductions 
-u a -zonJ a 
co 
ec are: 
Life 
insists 
upon 
accumulation, 
a gradual assemblage of things that 
collectively declare: this is who I am. An 
individual who has purposefully removed 
clutter from his or her life has arrived at a 
of Simone Martini and opted instead 
for "wallpaper'' 
by which he meant a 
view of the outdoors 
forever subject to 
change. 

Photographs accompanying articles 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Emily Koh**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
•
devoted to the Glass House often depict 
Johnson standing before one of his 
walls, gazing out at his 4 7 acres. From 
this familiar place, he could see Ponus 
Ridge with its stretches of field grass 
and trees. He could see the stout stone 
fence he constructed to line the edge of 
the tumble of boulders and he could see 
the Rippowam Valley. And, imposed on it 
all, he could see his reflection, a portrait 
etched in the glass of the walls of his 
house, a representation of himself as 
he was in the precise moment he stood 
facing the landscape. 

As I looked at these photographs, I 
was reminded of a song I heard once on 
the radio composed of only three lines, 
two of which were Bring a mirror to my 
face/Let all my memories be gone 
as fiuing 
September 2007 
.. 
an anthem for a glass house as I have ever 
heard. 

n a review of the Glass House 
published two weeks after its public 
opening, Nicolai Ouroussoff of the 
Times said that, "What mattered most 
about Johnson might have less to do 
with his gifts as an architect than with 
his intellectual openness ... a willingness 
to test new ideas, to push limits ·to their 
extremes, to stay firmly rooted in the 
present." In the end, the Glass House 
exists mostly as a testament to someone 
who, for all his weaknesses, could always 
make architecture feel wonderfully alive. 
This conclusion is apt. The Glass 
House rooted Johnson in the present, 
allowed him to experience life as it 
evolved within his 4 7 acres, filled him 
with.a satisfaction that could last for days . 
The test of architecture was to build a 
building, go inside, and let it wrap itself 
around you. "When people come into 
my house," Johnson said, "I say, just shut 
up and look around."' 
Emify Koh, a senior in Jonathan Edwards 
College, is a Senior Editor of 7NJ. 


**Author: Tess Dearing**
**Page number(s): 33**

An ingenue considers ta · g the tattoo plunge. 
phone was ringing, ringing~ 
please don't pick up 
ringing, 
ringing ... rigid with . suspense, I 
waited. I bit my lip. I was getting cold 
feet. 

"Studio Zee." Low and jaded, a 
woman's voice cut across my lingering 
apprehension. 

"Oh! Hello ... " I fumbled, tossed out 
my sweetest phone voice. 

"Tattoo or piercing." The response 
was clipped and icy. This was a statement, 
not a question. She was a bore9. traffic 
cop, herding me to the left or the right, 
and she had answered the phone this 
way thousands of times. I somehow 
managed to regain my voice, and, setl ing 
a consultation for 7:30 that evening, I 
snapped my cell phone shut. 

The August sun splashed across the 
office, slicing through the towering stacks 
of volumes and .documents lining the 
walls. Over a hundred footnotes, red 
pens, Post-It flags, and a_ heap of books 
on Dutch courthouses lay scattered in 
familiar chaos over my huge desk. I was 
alone in my summer office, deep within 
the Yale Law School. 

As a research assistant for a law 
professor, I was striving to excel as an 
intellectual. 
I knew the rhythms and 
movements of this high-stakes academic 
game, its strategies and pitfalls, its risks 
and payoffs. I was comfortable in my 
element, armed with 
a 
highlighter, 
reference texts, and rny own drive. 

And yet I was wave~g at the brink of 
an imminent foray into the un.lqlown. 
Convinced of my own insanity, I · said 
to myself, "Tess, tonight you have an 
appoinunent at a 'tattoo parlor." 
first through eighth grade, I was 
most comfortable in black watch 
plaid, lace-up shoes, and Polos. My worst 
offense was chattiness. 
I took quizzes 
By Tess Dearing . 
on the rules of lacrosse and the Hail 
Mary. I spent my days cloistered in an 
all-girls' Catholic school perched on 27 · 
roW.Og green acres of Maryland suburb. 
Afternoons slipped by as I stretched at 
the ballet barre. I did all my homework on 
time, and I never once skipped school. 
I was not popular, I played by the rules, 
and, for two weeks when I was twelve, I 
wanted to be a nun when I grew up. 

Even during high school in the District 
of Columbia, I didn't feel the attraction 
of the unexpected until my senior year. 
I was still a nerd through and through, 
but I broke out a bit on the brink of Yale. 
I ate lunch with boys. I flirted with the 
skater guys and hot shots. I did flamenco 
in the hallways. I used four-letter words in 
my creative writing assignments. During 
spirit week, I came to class dressed in 
black denim and leather. And yet, by 
most standards, I was a shockingly vanilla 
second-semester senior immune to the 
allure of serious rebellion. I successfully 
confused everyone by barely toeing the 
line, and I loved it. 

After I marched dqwn the graduation 
~ 
aisle in crisp white, Yale handed me a 
blank slate and no bridle, so I naturally 
ran a little wild in the costume closet, 
picking and choosing and layering and 
casting off. I slacked off occasional1y, 
stayed out till the wee hours of. the 
morning, cursed to elicit reactions, began 
my weekends midweek. I relished the fact 
that people knew nothing about me and 
fully exploited the opportunity to avoid 
simple definition. Nonetheless,· I never 
went off the deep end. I remained unable 
to relinquish my desire to be in control. 

Truthfully, I barely dipped my toes in 
the rapids. I was in Directed Studies, 
frequently "that sober girl" at Beta, and a 
witness to many long nights erased from 
everyone else's blacked-out memories. 

Impossibly, I have managed to blaze 
. 
through two years at Yale without waking 
up dazed in an unknown bed, arriving hung 
over to a morning seminar, or beginning 
a term p aper the night before. And yet, I 
'never stayed in on T hursday nights, rarely 
even on Wednesdays. What was wrong 
with me? Was I going to utterly lack tales 
of my mischievous college days? What 
was I going to tell my grandchildren? 
That I was occasionally tipsy off cheap 
champagne? I resigned myself to the fact 
that I was still an incorrigibly good girl 
from pony tail to high heels. 

So when I considered permanently 
injecting ink into my mostly pristine life 
this past summer, the idea hit my plaid-
clad, book-hugging self hard. And that, 
of course, is why I couldn't shake it. 

n the evening of my August phone 
call, I revisited the results of my 
Mapquest search: 920 State Street, well 
beyond my stomping grounds and light 
years past my comfort zone. I stood on 
the front porch of my summer apartment 
building on Lynwood, fidgeting as I 
waited 
for the Yale Transportation 
Service. I was minibussing-it to a tattoo 
parlor. I reflected on my clothing choices. 
A navy polo dress, pearl earrings, bronze 
flip flops, a messenger bag with the 
Berkeley Crest. I looked every inch the 
fresh, young, well-kept female off to a 
beach town coffee shop to get in some 
good reading before supper. 

Who did I think I was? I tried to 
visualize myself with my sun-bleached 
locks, scrubbed, moisturized skin, and 
Moleskine notepad strolling into an 
establishmentthatspecializesin permanent 
body art and piercing, whatever, wherever. 
I really, really needed a motorcycle and 
some mean; studded boots. In my mind, 
the place was definitely dark, on a less-
than-inviting street, manned by nocturnal 
individuals who set off metal detectors 
33 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author:  Unnamed**
**Page number(s): 34-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
at airports. Recalling the voice of the 
woman on the phone, my skin prickled. I 
feared the worst. I called my mother. She 
suggested a companion, but this was out 
of the question 
I needed to undertake 
this 
mission 
alone. 
I 
wasn't 
even 
getting tattooed. I was going to gather 
• 
information, compare prices, finalize the 
details of my design. This, like buying 
a car or choosing a boyfriend, required 
serious thought, diligent research, and 
extreme circumspection. I was preparing 
to make a permanent commitment, and, 
true to form, I refused to be rash. I had 
to be fully informed. 


Nonetheless, I was gradually letting 
go of my vice-like grip on the direction 
of my life. I felt like Emma Bovary on 
her way to a clandestine rendezvous with 
one of her lovers: restless, deterinined, 
manic. Seduced, I was definitely not in 
total control. Though I told my next-
door neighbor that I was going to 
interview a "local artist" (a stretch, but 
tattoos are art, I thought to myself), I 
was subconsciously tapping a dark, deep-
running current, refusing to acknowledge 
34 
•• 
that I was following its course. And yet I 
was listening, acting, allowing myself to be 
/ 
pulle forward. Coursing in my blood was 
som thing the Spanish call duende, a word 
th~i is untranslatable because the concept 
is· too fundamental to permit dissection. 
It is a basic attraction to the mysterious 
and the passionate, an understanding of 
the connection between suffering and 
love, and a deep respect for the aesthetic 
and the sensual. Like the opening strains 
of the flamenco guitarist, this inner 
voice painfully stirred something in my 
bones. It was irresistible, a call to action, 
a 1/amada. This bizarre pull explained the 
presence of leopard print in my wardrobe 
alongside oxford and argyle, the continual 
dancing, the awe of physical grace, and 
the persistent desire to emblazon an 
image permanently on my skin. 


at kind of clientele do you have?" 
I asked, looking hard into the 
young tattoo artist's pale, bright eyes. 
"That's like asking what the weather's 
going to be like today. We get everybody. 
We get doctors, lawyers, kids off the 
street who think they're gangsters. We 
get Guilford moms ... Tattooing went 
mainstream in, say, 1995." 


As I looked at the striking maroon 
walls and gold curtains, the spotless 
office, 
and 
kind 
man 
who 
approached his vocation with gravitas 
and skill, I realized the depth of my own 
pretensions. Tattoo art was not a game. 
People inside Studio Zee were fulfilling 
their vocational callings; their work was 
serious; their business, clean and highly 
professional. These artists could discern 
all kinds of motives in their clientele. I 
could only wonder what this man thought 
-. 
of me, with his clinical directness, his 
strong handshake, his gentle humor. He 
patiently listened to my specifications for 
the tattoo's design and location. He gave 
me prices, medical information, time 
restrictions. He ignored the slight waver 
in my voice, my breathlessness, and my 
·air of inexperience. 


"Why do you do this?" 
''What, tattooing? Because I love it." 


Oddly, during our brief exchange we 
found common ground. I was soothed; 
THE NEW JOURNAL 


he, perhaps, warmed by my uncommon 
interest in his handiwork, my naive 
openness~ my youth, my desire to learn. 


During the bus ride home, scribbling, 
I felt nauseous and gleeful. I was drunk 
on the thrill of this strange hunt. I had 
stood calmly and somewhat coherendy in 
the lobby of a New Haven tattoo parlor 
jotting cold, hard facts about turning. 
my smoky imaginings into an inky black 
reality. I didn't run away when one of 
a 
enco zn 
the artists shouted across the counter, 
''Yeah, he should be done soon. They're 
doing the red of the stripes in the flag." 


Visualizing a large male torso with an 
American flag rippling across it, the skin 
September 2007 
\ 
T 
~ -
' 
~ 
red and agitated at the edges 
the 
invasion of the ink, I was exhilarated. I 
thought back to my next-door neigh' 
r. 
Why had I evaded his question? The 
could be no more shame, nor any furthet 
balking. 


s August persisted in its russet, 
languor, I found I cou:ld not abandon • 
my quest. I perversely craved permanent : 
evidence of a decision entirely my own. I ' 
on 
kept finding hints scattered through the 
summer da s. Dictionar y.com's word of 
the day on August 18th was "tattoo": "1.) 
A rapid, rhythmic dr 
· g or rapping. 
2.) The beat of a drum, or . sound of a 
trumpet or b:ugle, giving notice to soldiers 
to go to their quarters at night" 
the same 
rhythmic call I was increasingly unable to 
ignore. I found 
1a black card amongst the 
remains of my trip to Rome. I had picked 
up at a club party held in a huge wh4-_te 
buH.ding, a vestige of Mussolini's attempl 
\ to build a new Rome. Beneath a drawing 
. 
pf':a bleeding hand, it read: ''Mela Tattoo 
tu&io." The studio of apples. Tempted, 
I }>ondered. The strains of that hidden 
guitar called to me, the steps of the 
• {famadrz unfolding in my brain. I could feel 
the pounding of my heels, the rushing of 
adrenaline, the burning of the muscles in 
my legs. The composition birthed already 
in my mind, I felt the weight of my own 
role in its execution, subsumed in its 
larger unity. 


I visited other tattoo parlors. In each, 
I listened and watched, heart thumping. 
I was a voyeur, blending with my 
surroundings, feigning total confidence. 
In one, I overheard a woman dressed 
sharpl in a pencil skirt and leather sling-
backs discuss in low tones the script she 
wanted written on her inner wrist. The 
35 


tattoo artist was reluctant. Her 
was too small and he feared it 
over the next decade. Perhaps 
of .a lover, I thought. I 
she 
needed it done now, that 
like me, 
was afraid of turning 
She looked . 
sleek, straight-edged, 
yet so urgent 
to ossify this momen 
desire. A man 
in full military blu walked in with a 
piece of paper. 'J'ifu trained grace and 
power he walked up to the counter and 
asked if the studio had time for a walk-
in. Yes? Lefs do it, then. He disappeared · 
into the back. Eventually, I slipped the 
business card into my bag and returned ·"" 
.;' 
to th hair salon, wondering what WO)lid 
h~~ happened if I, too, had seized the 
.. 
-inoment like that put-together woman, 
that navy man. How different was I from 
them? Did it matter? Should I care? How 
much more time did I need? 


ate in the month, I was on the phone 
the library of my house. I had been 
muHing over my idea for days, replaying 
reconsidering 
my 
experiences, 
wavering between total conviction and 
terror. As I sat tracing the designs of the 
· rug, I listened to the low, male voice on 
the other end tell me he had something 
to say about tattoos. Really, I . thought? 
More dissuasion, no doubt. · Like many 
close to me, he was perturbed by my 
quest. Though he had never articulated 
his qualms, I could pick them out of 
his mind. My fascination with tattooing 
myself seemed odd, out of line, unduly 
36 
. . 
-;~ ... 
impulsive. He was con .. .,., 
by my 
behavior, unable to pin 
the element 
of my character that n) 
me in this 
renegade direction. 


had wondered, 
weeks previously, 
the note I had left 
· hiin in a book he 
"Things I 
to Do With You." · 
Among the · 
of prospective joint 
::r:· 
I had listed thunderstorms 
and tatlt~ 
He had looked up at me, 
.u., eyes up and down, taking in 
,u., fresh composure and apparent 
of worldly blemish. He looked 
at the note, paused, and asked, 
';>" 


That day on the phone he carefully told 
me about a new technology that injects ink 
in the f<:>rm of tiny sealed pellets, forming 
a picture in the way a color printer forms 
a comic strip illustration. The benefit, he 
said, is that these tattoos disappear when 
struck with a laser, since the pigment 
does not bleed into the skin. Voild. Easily 
removable. "Thought you might want to 
know," he said. 


Yes, I thought, good to know. And for 
a while after our conversation, it seemed 
like an easy solution to the objections, 
the insistence that I would be dissatisfied, 
that I would change my mind. But no. 
These long summer afternoons had given 
me time to digest the magnetic pull of my 
quest. Freshly twenty years old, I had a. 
great sense of both the fertility latent in 
the future and the rare, transient power 
of this moment in time. A quarter of 
the way through my projected lifespan, 
something primal- stirred within me, 
drawing me towards a private act of self-
claiming. I felt a need to stand alone, 
stripped free of the identities that had 
clung ·to me through life. Ultimately, I 
found tattoos beautiful and my skin a 
blank canvas all my own. 


This was not an act of rejection, but 
of renewal. It was no longer about toeing 
the line. A sudden shedding had left me 
raw, shell-shocked by a newfound sense 
of power. I owned this vessel, and I felt 
compelled to run its young, smooth hull 
through risky straits. I was not .sailing in a 
fleet of other boats, I was in full control 
of the rudder, and my course was not to 
be influenced by the destinations of the 
boats native to my calm harbor. 


When I'm ready, there will be no tiny, 
sealed pellets and no painkillers. I will be 
alone, in New Haven, with no minibus, 
no companion, and no doubts. No one 
will know the day or the hour. I will take a 
cab, wear jeans, and bring cash. There will 
be no going back. As I feel the first sting 
of the needle, my brain will play back the 
opening strains of the llamada. It will be 
full-throttle or not at all. 


Tess Dearin~ a junior in Berke fry College, is an 
Associate Editor of IN]. 




**Title: ENDNOTE**
**Author: Nicole Allan**
**Page number(s): 38**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
INDIAN SUMMER
By Nicole Allan
Age at which I read my first novel about India: I 0
Subsequent number of novels about India I have read: 22
Number of months spent planning my trip to India: 9
Percentage of parents' friends claiming to know someone in India who would either employ or shelter me: 32
Pre-departure visits to Yale Travel Clinic: 5
Number of malaria pills purchased: 82
Number of guide books purchased: 3
Number of times the word "microfinance" appeared in my fellowship application essay: 9
Extent of my knowledge about "rnicrofinance" upon writing fellowship application essay: 1 Time Magazine article
Number of fellowships that turned me down: 9
AIDS rate in India, as relayed to me by my mother: 1.5%
Months spent in India: 2.5
-
Minutes spent admiring my dusty, overloaded backpack in the bathroom mirror before passing through LAX upon return: 3.2
Number of diseases diagnosed during post-India physical: 0
Number of group emails printed, reread, and collected in a folder: 7
Money spent on Indian ingredients to cook family an authentic Indian meal: $42.61
Days left-over authentic Indian meal sat in refrigerator, untouched, before discreetly thrown out by my mother: 5
Number of cheaply-made puppets, bangles, elephant mobiles, bootlegged Bollywood films, bags oftea, and fraying tapestries
distributed to family and friends: 32
Number of"lndia!" photo albums posted on Facebook: 5
Hours spent walking around Los Angeles in an Indian kurta before discreetly changing behind a dumpster: 0.6
Remaining desire to work in microfinance, international development, or any other not-for-profit that involves helping people: 0
Nicole Allan, a junior in Calhoun College, is a Managing Editor ofTNJ.
THE NEW JOURNAL


**Title:  Untitled**
**Author:  Various**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
' 
' ' 
. . 
• 
.. 
l 
' . . 
.. . 
" 
• • 
·. 
' . 
•' " 
•• 
. ,, 
. .. 
,. 
I 
• . 
~· 
) 
t 
~ 
. 
( 
,, 
. ,' 
••• 
r 
eas 
.• 
' .. 
·~ '· 
, 
·' 
-
' ' . 
• ' . 
., 
. .. . . 
. ' 
' I 
' • 
J 
Thursday, September 20th 
.. .... 
Mark Berry, Cambt:"idge University, Peterhouse, FeUow it:"~ History : 
Dr Berry's research is concerned wit;h modern. i~tellectual history, espe-
. · 
cially the En~ightenment and the idealist-Mar><ist tradition~. and with the .. 
• • • 
history· of music. 
.. · 
· 
· · 
. • 
Tuesday, September 25th 
. jonathan Safran Foer, Author 
Author of the.highly acclaimed best-seller Everything Is Illuminated. Foer 
; 
was o·ne of Rolling Stone's "People of the· Year" and Esq·uire's "Best and 
Brightest." · · 
If 
• "" 
Thursday, October 9th 
Donna Dubinsky, Trustee, Yale Corporation 
Co-founder of Palm Inc. and Handspring, she brought a transformative 
technology, the PDA, to market. 


All Teas begin at 4pm in the New Residence Hall (Swing Dorm), I 00 Tower Parkway 

