Publication date: Nov 2017
Volume: 50
Issue number: 3

**MASTHEAD:**
- editors-in-chief: Eliza Fawcett, Natalie Yang
- managing editor: Victorio Cabrera
- executive editor: Ruby Bilger
- senior editors: Jacob Sweet, Oriana Tang, Victor Wang
- associate editors: Antonia Ayres-Brown, Chris Hays, Mark Rosenberg, Annie Rosenthal, Robert Scaramuccia, Arya Sundaram
- copy editors: Philippe Chlenski, Marina Tinone, Amy Xu
- design editors: Julia Hedges, Hazal Özgür
- photo editor: Elinor Hills
- web developer: Philippe Chlenski
- members and directors: Emily Bazelon, Peter Cooper, Jonathan Dach, Kathrin Lassila, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, Fred Strebeigh, Aliyya Swaby
- advisors: Neela Banerjee, Richard Bradley, Susan Braudy, Jay Carney, Andy Court, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Susan Dominus, David Greenberg, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Laura Pappano, Jennifer Pitts, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, Eric Rutkow, David Slifka, John Swansburg, Anya Kamenetz, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- friends: Nicole Allan, Margaret Bauer, Mark Badger and Laura Heymann, Susan Braudy, Julia Calagiovanni, Elisha Cooper, Haley Cohen, Peter Cooper, Andy Court, The Elizabethan Club, David Freeman and Judith Gingold, Paul Haigney and Tracey Roberts, Bob Lamm, James Liberman, Alka Mansukhani, Benjamin Mueller, Sophia Nguyen, Valerie Nierenberg, Morris Panner, Jennifer Pitts, R. Anthony Reese, Eric Rutkow, Lainie Rutkow, Laura Saavedra and David Buckley, Anne-Marie Slaughter, Elizabeth Sledge, Caroline Smith, Elizabeth Steig, Aliyya Swaby, John Jeremiah Sullivan, Daphne and David Sydney, Kristian and Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Townsend Wilson, Daniel Yergin, William Yuen


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- A FRAGILE SANCTUARY - Eliza Fawcett
- BY NO MEANS IMMUNE - Max Graham
- MUCH ADO ABOUT MUSHROOMS - Sarah Adams
- NEIGHBORHOOD POLITICS - Molly Montgomery
- SIGN OF THE TIMES - Noah Macey
- FREEDOM OF MOBILITY - Andrew Sandweiss
- MEMENTO MORI - Henry Reichard
- LATE OCTOBER - Anna Sudderth
- TRACES OF SPICE - Ananya Kumar-Banerjee


**Title: A FRAGILE SANCTUARY**
**Author: Eliza Fawcett**
**Page number(s): 28**

The walls of a New Haven church protect 
Marco Antonio Reyes Alvarez from deportation. 
No one knows for how long.


**Title: BY NO MEANS IMMUNE**
**Author: Max Graham**
**Page number(s): 17**

A new emergency drug policy at Yale
attempts to draw addiction out of the shadows.


**Title: MUCH ADO ABOUT MUSHROOMS**
**Author: Sarah Adams**
**Page number(s): 4**


**Title: NEIGHBORHOOD POLITICS**
**Author: Molly Montgomery**


**Title: SIGN OF THE TIMES**
**Author: Noah Macey**


**Title: FREEDOM OF MOBILITY**
**Author: Andrew Sandweiss**
**Page number(s): 10**

A bus ride through New Haven reveals the deficiencies of the city’s transit system.


**Title: MEMENTO MORI**
**Author: Henry Reichard**
**Page number(s): 14**

Reflections on a farm, a childhood, and an old sheep’s skull.


**Title: LATE OCTOBER**
**Author: Anna Sudderth**
**Page number(s): 26**


**Title: TRACES OF SPICE**
**Author: Ananya Kumar-Banerjee**
**Page number(s): 38**



**Title: Much Ado About Mushrooms**
**Author: Sarah Adams**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 4
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
MUCH ADO ABOUT MUSHROOMS
P O I N T  O F  D E PA R T U R E
 Foraging with the Connecticut Valley Mycological Society
Sarah Adams
I
t was raining steadily in the woods in Hurd 
State Park, an hour northeast of New Haven. I 
stooped down by the base of a dying tree. There 
wasn’t much to see except for damp leaves carpeting 
the ground. Then I spotted it: a few clusters of small 
tan caps. “Coprinellus micaceus, inky caps,” said 
Beth Karwowski, without missing a beat. Karwowski, 
whose laugh carries through the forest, is the presi-
dent of the Connecticut Valley Mycological Society 
(CVMS). She turned one of the mushrooms upside 
down, revealing its sooty black under-cap. “This is a 
wood-decaying mushroom and can be used to make 
ink,” she explained.

Nearly twenty members of CVMS were crouched 
by rocks or trees throughout the forest. It was a Sun-
day morning and the day of the group’s weekly forage, 
when members come together to search for mush-
rooms and share their interest in mycology, the study 
of fungal life.

CVMS was founded in 1975 by Ed Bosman, who led 
the first foray in Sleeping Giant State Park in Ham-
den, Connecticut. Today, the organization’s Facebook 
group—which anyone interested in Connecticut’s 
mushrooms can join—has over 400 members. But only 
official members who pay the annual fee (fifteen dol-
lars for an individual, twenty dollars for a family) know 
the locations of weekly forays, printed in a blue book. 
“If we gave away the locations, some people would go 
a day before and collect them beforehand,” one mem-
ber warned. Some of the rules are even more strict: 
“YOU ARE PERSONALLY RESPONSIBLE FOR 
THE PROPER IDENTIFICATION OF ANY MUSH-
ROOMS THAT YOU EAT!” is printed in bold at the 
top of the CVMS website and participation waivers.

At the Sunday morning forage, members first met 
at the park pavilion, then disappeared into the woods 
in pairs or by themselves. In spite of the chilly air, the 
pavilion vibrated with the warmth and enthusiasm of 
those looking to share their knowledge with people 
from all levels of foraging experience. Karwowski and 
I continued down the path after finding the inky caps, 
dodging horse dung and rocks slick from the rain. 
“It’s been a very strange year for a lot of reasons,” she 
said, pointing at small white spots on the tree trunks 
surrounding us. “See that white stuff on there? Gypsy 
moth egg.” This past year, gypsy moth caterpillars 
decimated entire forests in Connecticut. Much of the 
destruction affected oak trees, which are dependent on 
the fungi that grow on their roots to live, causing the 
fungi population throughout Connecticut to plum-
met. Paradoxically, however, gypsy moth populations 
are kept in check by another fungus, Entomophaga 
maimaiga, which infects caterpillars with its spores. 
“It rained enough this spring that E. maimaiga was 
able to grow,” Karwowski said. 

As the clock approached noon, people returned to 
the pavilion with wicker baskets and egg cartons full of 
fungi. Thick orangish-white shelf croppings, Laetipo-
rus cincinnatus. Burnt-red, jelly-like, and brain-shaped 
heap, Tremella foliacea. Small round puff balls with 
spiny studdings, Lycoperdon perlatum. “We’ve got 
about twenty or thirty years’ worth of data on forage 
findings,” said Walt Rode, one of CVMS’s expert iden-
tifiers. “We want to make it accessible and reportable 
so that we can see how changes in the environment, 
and climate change, has an effect.” Unlike other for-
aging groups in the region, CVMS not only deals with 
finding edible fungi, but seeks to contribute to scien-
tific research. Members send fungi DNA to laborato-
ries for further study and have even helped to discover 
new species. 

The weekly forages are also social gatherings. 
“When I first joined CVMS, I thought, ‘who needs a 
group?’” laughed Connie Borodenko, another expert 
identifier. She sported a well-worn mushroom iden-
tification guide T-shirt under her bright orange rain 
jacket. “But this group is so full of scientific minds, 
I began to learn so much more quickly.” Boroden-
ko’s grandmother from Poland first taught her family 
mushrooming; Borodenko spent twenty years search-
ing on her own before she found CVMS. “I used to 
be shy and withdrawn too,” she said, “but the group 
brought me out of my shell.” 

“It’s the best feeling when you come onto some-
thing wonderful in the company of somebody else who 
thinks it’s wonderful. Often those fungi are edible…
but even the unusual little fungi [are wonderful],” 
added Jean Hopkins, one of Borodenko’s friends. Peo-
ple in CVMS hail from all sorts of backgrounds, none 
of which involve mycology. Before retiring, Boro-
denko was an art teacher and building mechanic at a 
phone company. Rode has worked as a librarian com-
puter specialist for twenty-five years. Karwowski works 
in finance. Other people came as couples or tagged 
along with family members, united by a common curi-
osity for mushrooms and the fungal world. 

“Food, medicine, dye material, taxonomy and sys-
tematics, biological and ecological; there are lots of 
different ways that people become interested in mush-
rooms, but we try to add more to that too,” said Bill 
Yule, education director for CVMS. “But mostly we’re 
here for fun, and food,” he laughed.

Today’s forage wasn’t just any outing––it was the 
“Tailgate Forage,” the last major one of the year, com-
plete with a potluck of homemade mushroom dishes. 
As I waited in line for a helping of hen-of-the-woods 
soup, someone offered me a taste of freshly sautéed 
Coprinus comatus. I took a bite; the scaly white mush-
rooms were buttery, with a subtle, earthy undertone. 
Raincoats hung from the ceiling near the fireplaces, 
and people huddled at the pavilion tables, admiring 
their finds or simply laughing and telling stories. 
“It’s a religious experience,” Hopkins winked. “But 
don’t write that down.” 
— Sarah Adams is a sophomore 
in Morse College.


**Title: Turkey’s divisions materialize on Middletown Avenue**
**Author: Molly Montgomery**
**Page number(s): 6-7**

 6
NEIGHBORHOOD POLITICS
Turkey’s divisions materialize on Middletown Avenue
Molly Montgomery
O
n October 29, ninety-four years after the 
founding of the secular Republic of Turkey, a 
solemn Turkish-American man named Feray 
Gökçek stands before thirty people in his backyard 
on Middletown Avenue, across the Quinnipiac River 
from Fair Haven. A two-and-a-half-ton, thirteen-foot-
tall bronze statue of Mustafa Kemal Atatürk, the first 
president of Turkey, looms over him. “What we are 
doing here today,” Gökçek says in Turkish, “is contrib-
uting to world peace and protecting democracy and 
secularism.” Barely a smile crosses his lips. It is raining, 
and from a stereo on his screened porch the Turkish 
national anthem plays, followed by the American one. 
The listeners stand observant, arms at their sides.

Gökçek grew up in a city in Turkey on the Black 
Sea, but left in 1991 to escape political violence. He 
says he was a freedom fighter. He erected the statue of 
Atatürk on May 19, 2016, the one-hundred-and-thirty-
sixth anniversary of Atatürk’s birth. He is a member of 
the Atatürk Union of USA, a private organization made 
up of about one hundred and fifty people around the 
East Coast who support Atatürk, secularism, democ-
racy, and freedom. The entire Union helped pay for 
the statue. It was originally supposed to go up in New 
Jersey in another member’s yard, but they didn’t own 
the land. Gökçek volunteered his. Bronze Atatürk’s 
face is tilted up in a fierce, mysterious smile. His right 
hand clutches his suit jacket. At his feet, Gökçek refills 
vases of red and white carnations every week. 

Gökçek plans to rename a tiny street near his house 
“Atatürk Street.” He has collected over three hundred 
signatures to petition the city. “From Dunkin’ Donuts,” 
he explains, “from Walmart, the oil change, the hotel, 
downtown, Lowe’s, Aldi, the barber shop.”  He points 
out that a street in Ankara, Turkey’s capital, is called 
John F. Kennedy Caddesi (“avenue” in Turkish), in 
recognition of JFK’s support for strong Turkish-Ameri-
can relations. John F. Kennedy Caddesi is a major bou-
levard. Scarboro Street is a 250-foot dead-end that runs 
alongside Gökçek’s yard.

He calls his yard “Atapark.” Turkish and American 
flags of all sizes fly side by side. He refers to a hut in the 
yard as “Ankara,” and to his house as “Çankaya,” the 
Turkish equivalent of the White House, which Atatürk 
built in 1921. President Erdoğan replaced it with a pal-
ace called the Presidential Complex in 2014. “He fuck 
it up,” Gökçek says. “Sorry–my language. He is an ass-
hole. He is an asshole.”

There are three signs on Gökçek’s fence: a list of all 
the cities in Turkey, the words “Adalet–Justice” in red 
against a white background, and a laminated, blown-up 
biography page about Atatürk from BBC History. 
Behind the page, Gökçek has painted “HAYIR”—“No,” 
in Turkish—in response to Erdoğan’s 2017 referen-
dum to strengthen his presidential powers, which he 
narrowly won. Gökçek supports the CHP, also called 
the Republican People’s Party—Turkey’s secular, leftist 
opposition party, the party of Atatürk. Erdoğan leads 
the AKP, also called the Justice and Development 
Party—the Islamic conservative party. Under Erdoğan, 
Turkey’s government has become increasingly reli-
gious and authoritarian. In just three years, between 
2006 and 2009, he constructed nine thousand Otto-
man-style mosques in Turkey. Thousands of Turks have 
been arrested for denouncing his presidency. Some 
have begun to call him “Sultan Erdoğan.”

A
cross the street from Atapark, a Turkish govern-
ment-funded mosque has been under construc-
tion for at least two years. The Turkish Direc-
torate of Religious Affairs—the religious chapter of the 
Turkish government, founded in 1924 under Atatürk—
funds an American organization called the Diyanet 
Center of America. With this funding, the center has 
helped pay for Turkish mosques in other cities around 
the U.S. including Louisville, Charlotte, Portland, and 
Queens. The Turkish Diyanet gave the New Haven 
congregation white minarets and a white dome with 
glaucous tops and crescent peaks. They were shipped 
across the ocean from Turkey in over a hundred 
pieces  and reassembled on Middletown Avenue. But 
the staggering eighty-one-foot tall minarets apparently 
violated city zoning law, and construction was halted. 
City officials and the congregation’s president, Haydar 
Elevli, didn’t respond to requests for comment.

When I visit the mosque on a Friday morning before 
prayers, it is full of congregants even though it’s still 
under construction. Elevli’s wife shows me the carpeted 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Molly Montgomery**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
prayer rooms, the bathrooms and the ablution rooms 
where worshippers may wash their feet, the empty tiled 
dining room that will be full of dishes and tables and 
hungry congregants when construction is completed. 

Upstairs are open, well-lit classrooms where children 
learn how to speak Turkish and how to cook, how to 
read the Quran and how to pray. In one, the children 
have written their names on rounded blue rectangles 
pasted to the wall below a peaked border of tiny Turk-
ish flags. A red balloon printed with the flag’s white 
crescent and star hangs in the middle of the room like 
a chandelier.

On the third floor, right below the dome, all is 
ragged and metal. It looks like we’re standing inside 
a malformed egg. Elevli explains 
how busy her husband is, waking up 
at four every morning, running his 
restaurant in Wallingford, mediating 
between the Turkish government 
and the city about the mosque’s 
construction, not always returning 
home at night. “All for Allah,” she 
tells me, “all for Allah.” She explains 
that she too works for Allah.

“M
y 
community,” 
Gökçek says, “is the 
secular people. Not 
the religious people.” I ask him if 
he erected his statue and collected 
his signatures to protest the mosque. 
“No,” he says, “Not to protest.” Only 
to affirm secular Turkey. Only to 
send a message overseas to Erdoğan.

Though he did tell the New Haven 
Independent that the congregants 
have “religion brain,”  which, he 
said, is “worse than drugs.” And that he imagined them 
“screaming every day” at his statue. He did tell me that 
“religion [is] more dangerous than cocaine, heroin.” I 
ask Elevli how her community feels about Mr. Gökçek 
and his yard.“ I don’t like talking about him,” she says. 
The sun glints off Bronze Atatürk and the mosque’s 
golden crescents. The worshippers arrive to pray and 
Gökçek refills his vases of red and white carnations.
—Molly Montgomery is a junior 
in Branford College.


**Title: SIGN OF THE TIMES
P O I N T  O F  D E PA R T U R E
Increased student interest helps formalize 
American Sign Language courses at Yale**
**Author: Noah Macey**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

O
n a recent Wednesday evening in a basement 
room of Yale University’s Dow Hall, four stu-
dents attempted a translation of the song “I’ll 
Make a Man out of You,” from Disney’s Mulan. Hands, 
fingers, and arms jumped, fluttered, and glided their 
way through the lyrics. The class broke into a fit of gig-
gles when the professor, Jessica Tanner, forced them 
to re-sign the line, “Tranquil as the forest but on fire 
within.” Their signs for “fire,” she suggested, had been 
underwhelming. Her hands, fingers, and eyebrows flew 
vigorously upward from her chest and out into a shower 
of sparks as she demonstrated the proper gesture. It 
couldn’t have looked more fiery had she flicked open 
a Zippo.


Right now, Yale students can only study American 
Sign Language (ASL) through small not-for-credit 
classes offered through Yale’s Directed Independent 
Language Study (DILS) program. Tanner’s ASL group 
has been one of most popular DILS programs since 
it began in 2010. In recent years, she’s had to turn 
away prospective signers due to the program’s limited 
resources. But come spring, with expanded resources 
and administrative support, the university will offer two 
full-fledged, five-days-a-week ASL classes through the 
Linguistics Department, which petitioned the Lan-
guage Study Committee last spring for the course’s 
approval.


Raffaella Zanuttini, the Director of Undergraduate 
Studies for the Linguistics  department and author of 
the proposal, says it’s no surprise that it has taken Yale 
so long to create a formal ASL class. Universities have 
been slow across the board: although the University of 
Rochester became the first college in the country to 
offer ASL as a foreign language in the 1990s, ASL has 
been around much longer. It’s taken two hundred years 
for ASL to float down to New Haven from just up the 
Connecticut River Valley in Hartford, Connecticut, 
where in 1817 a Yale graduate, with advice from then-
Yale president Timothy Dwight IV, founded the Amer-
ican School for the Deaf (ASD). The children who 
came to ASD brought with them their home and local 
sign languages, which combined with the university’s 
French Sign Language to create ASL. 


The path to Yale’s first-ever ASL course had enough 
hurdles to be a track event. It required coordination 
between the DILS program, the Linguistics depart-
ment, the Yale College Council, and the Dean’s 
Office. Last spring, Kate Rosenberg, a senior Linguis-
tics major and recent founder of the ASL at Yale club, 
approached Zanuttini about adding an ASL option to 
the Blue Book. Zanuttini soon discovered that there 
was also strong faculty interest in ASL, a YCC task force 
report showing high demand for ASL instruction, and a 
beloved instructor—Jessica Tanner—already teaching 
ASL at Yale. “It was quite a discovery,” she recounted. 
Zanuttini submitted a report to the Language Study 
Committee, the panel that oversees Yale’s foreign lan-
guage offerings, which gave the program two thumbs 
up this past summer. The pilot program will begin 
this spring, and Jessica Tanner will move from DILS 


to a lecturer in the Linguistics department, 
teaching introductory and intermediate 
level courses. Students say they have every 
reason to believe her classes will make Yale 
a more positive and welcoming place for 
people with disabilities.


For Rosenberg, learning ASL has given 
her an opportunity to access and commu-
nicate with a rich culture that many peo-
ple do not know exists. “A lot of people 
distinguish between little-d deaf and big-D 
Deaf,” she said. “Little-d deaf means that 
someone cannot hear; big-D Deaf is where 
you’re Deaf and proud of it, and you inter-
act with the community and use signing 
as your main method of communication.” 
Tanner, who is Deaf, embeds this sort of 
cultural education in her classroom, as any 
other foreign language instructor would.


Benjamin Nodalsky, who led the YCC 
Disabilities Task Force last year, hopes that 
the ASL program will improve awareness of 
Deaf culture at Yale. “By introducing ASL, 
we’re clearing the way for more people 
with links to Deaf culture to come here,” 
he said.   


Zanutinni hopes the course will dis-
pel pernicious misconceptions about sign 
languages in general: “Things that we 
mark through intonation, for example, 
are marked through facial expression,” she 
said. “They really are languages with the 
same level of systematicity and richness of 
expression and creativity…It’s not just pan-
tomime, and the signs aren’t just spellings 
of the words in spoken language.” 


From the vantage of Tanner’s DILS 
classroom, the work of inclusion looks 
like four students practicing their Mulan 
translation. On their lyrics sheets, “Let’s 
get down to business to defeat the Huns” 
is transcribed as “HUNS, COMING, 
HURRY, BECOME, SOLDIERS,” which 
they sign in time with the music playing 
from a laptop. One student signs out of 
time with the others, and everyone cracks 
up. As the students’ hands leap around to 
debrief before rehearsing again, the class-
room is silent, but not at all quiet.
 – Noah Macey is a junior 
in Timothy Dwight College.



**Title: SNAPSHOT**
**Author: Andrew Sandweiss**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
A bus ride through New Haven reveals the deficiencies of the city’s transit system

A
fter two heart attacks, a stroke, and thir-
ty-seven days in the Palm Beach County Jail, 
Dennis DeMartin had grown tired of Florida. 
Following an incident that caused him to lose his Del-ray Beach condo, he moved into a federal housing proj-
ect in New Haven called Bella Vista. His apartment is 
near the end of the 212 bus line, close to his childhood 
home in West Haven. Since he doesn’t own a car, the 
212 is his only means of leaving the housing complex. “I 
live alone. The walls close in on me,” he said. 

A stout 74-year-old man with white hair and a bushy, 
Santa Claus-esque beard, DeMartin is buoyant and 
energetic. He uses the bus to visit friends, family, and 
his doctor. “I take four buses a day,” he said. “I rely on 
the bus one hundred percent for everything I have to 
do.”

The buses of Greater New Haven are the veins of the 
region. For those without access to a private vehicle, 
public transportation is not an alternative mode of tran-
sit. It’s a lifeline. In Dixwell, Dwight, Downtown, and 
the Hill, more than 35 percent of the population does 
not own a car.  For those residents, public transit is their 
primary, if not sole, mode of access to employment, 
education, healthcare, and even groceries.

The system is widely used: riders took 8.3 million trips 
in 2016. But delays, a disjointed central hub, disconnect 
from employment opportunities, and inconsistent dis-
ability access plague the system. These issues prompted 
the city to begin a collaborative study in October 2016 
called Move New Haven, a comprehensive review of 
the region’s bus network with support from the city, 
state, and regional authorities. After months of data col-
lection, the study released a report of transit statistics in 
August. This January, Move New Haven will unveil a 
series of recommendations for the system. A schedule 
for enacting those recommendations has not yet been 
set.

DeMartin has already completed his own study of 
New Haven’s bus network. In 2015, he self-published a 
book called Riding New Haven Buses. This past fall, he 
invited me to take a ride with him. We met on a cold, 
sunny day in November. I shivered against the wind 
as we walked down Elm Street toward the New Haven 
Green.

The main hub of the system includes eleven sepa-
rate bus shelters that line the Green and lower Chapel 
Street. End to end, the shelters stretch just under half 
a mile. It’s “not very customer-friendly,” said Matthew 
Nemerson, Director of Economic Development for 
New Haven. “It is spread out and open. [You have to] 
withstand the heat of the summer, the cold of the win-
ter.” Although cities across the country have central bus 
terminals, New Haven’s hub consists of nothing more 
than sidewalks and open shelters designated as bus 
stops.

When I arrived with DeMartin, the hub was teem-
ing with commuters. By our shelter, there were roughly 
fifteen people waiting, and large crowds were gathered 
back at the corner of Church and Chapel. All of the CT 
Transit routes run through Downtown New Haven—
there are no crosstown lines—so the stops around the 
Green are always busy.

DeMartin and I boarded the 212, one of the system’s 
most popular buses, at Temple and Elm, DeMartin’s 
usual stop. Most of the city’s current bus routes date 
back to New Haven’s extensive trolley system, which 
shut down in 1948. “The buses follow the same path-
ways as the trolleys,” Nemerson said. “People who want 
to change directions need to come into the center of 
town.”

This “hub and spoke” system is addressed by the 
Move New Haven study, which found that with the 
“single downtown hub…bus riders are forced to trans-
fer to complete cross-town trips and riders are forced 
downtown even if their travel does not require a down-
town visit.”

The system’s layout is especially problematic for peo-
ple living in the city and working in the suburbs. Jobs 
and industry that used to be clustered along Whalley and 
Winchester Avenues, such as the Winchester Repeating 
Arms Factory, have closed down or moved out to sub-
urban towns like Milford and Hamden. Of the approx-
imately 380 thousand jobs in the New Haven region, 
only eighty thousand are in city limits. For example, if 
someone worked in the Amity Plaza shopping center by 
the Merritt Parkway but lived on Morse Street in north-
ern Newhallville (a ten-minute drive away), they would 
have to take the 238 bus ten minutes to the Green, wait 
for the 243, and ride another eighteen minutes back out 
to Amity.

Doug Hausladen, former Ward 7 alder, has been New 
Haven’s Director for Public Transportation, Traffic, and 
Parking since 2014. According to him, the city is devis-
ing a plan to fix the bus hub by converting many one-
way streets surrounding the Green (and elsewhere in 
Downtown) to two-way streets, with the aim of reducing 
travel and transfer times. Hopefully, Move New Haven 
will also propose best practices for rerouting bus lines to 
better serve changing workforces and workplaces.

However, it is the Connecticut Department of Trans-
portation, and not the City of New Haven, that runs CT 
Transit, the service that manages New Haven’s network. 
Changes to the system happen at the state level, and 
New Haven commuters and officials often struggle to 
make their voices heard. “If you want to lobby a com-
plaint on CT Transit, there is no hearing, no meeting 
on public performance for CT Transit,” Hausladen said.

I inserted my bus pass into the small machine by the 
driver and sat in a window seat next to DeMartin as 
the bus rolled away from the Green. Despite opposition 
from New Haven Mayor Toni Harp and New Haven 
residents, fares were raised across the transit system last 
year to compensate for a $37.5 million cut in state fund-
ing. Now, the one-way fare for a local ride in the New 
Haven area is $1.75, up 17 percent from $1.50 a year ago. 
(By comparison, the commuter rail fare, which serves 
a population with a much higher median household 
income, increased only 5 percent.) “We’ve gone back-
wards on access to jobs and access to upward mobility,” 
Hausladen said. “In Connecticut, a lot of our poorest 
communities are in the biggest cities. We’re starving 
them from an adequate transit system.”

With the state distributing funding, cities often have 
to scrounge to finance their transit systems. “We have 
a great relationship but we have real needs,” Nemer-
son said of the association between New Haven and the 
Department of Transportation. “We need to fight with 
every other city in the state to get resources here.” In 
tough budget years like 2016, proposed state budgets 
drastically reduce funding for buses. Some of these 
proposed budgets eliminate it altogether. Although the 
more radical proposals get heavily amended, there have 
been budget cuts to bus service. Cities like New Haven 
are at the mercy of the state.

T
he 212 bus crossed the railroad tracks as we 
left Downtown and passed under I-95. Moving 
beneath the shadow of the abandoned English 
Power Station, we crossed a modest concrete bridge 
into Fair Haven. As we continued down Grand Avenue, 
past a bustling series of small grocers and Latin Amer-
ican restaurants, the bus slowed its pace as pedestrian 
and automobile traffic began to increase.

Traffic limits bus reliability in New Haven. Part of 
the problem is the overabundance of bus stops. On a 
recent ride I took on the 238 along Dixwell Avenue, the 
evening rush out of New Haven was repeatedly stalled 
by passengers disembarking. The bus stopped prac-
tically every block, and halfway through the route, at 
Dixwell Avenue and Putnam, we were already running 
twenty-eight minutes late, according to the schedule 
posted on CT Transit’s website.

Empirically assessing the reliability of New Haven’s 
bus lines is nearly impossible because CT Transit keeps 
no data on bus timeliness, according to Hausladen. 
As for a bus-tracking app, (e.g. TransLoc for the Yale 
Shuttle) CT Transit unveiled the “Transit” app in April. 
The real-time bus information app, however, doesn’t 
advertise any data on bus reliability. The Move New 
Haven study laments this lack of data, stating, “Reliabil-
ity issues are only known through information reported 
through community outreach.”

We left Fair Haven and headed into East Haven, 
crossing a rusting bridge over the Quinnipiac River. As 
we climbed the hill away from the riverbank, DeMar-
tin pointed out the homes of old ship captains that 
rose above the trees on the hills above the Quinnipiac. 
Behind the homes, at the crest of the hill, the goliath 




**Title: Riding the Bus in New Haven**
**Author: Andrew Sandweiss**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Bella Vista towers rose into view.

Many of the residents at Bella Vista depend heavily 
on public transit. DeMartin maintains a waiting room 
for commuters, carved into the lobby of one of the 
larger towers. He makes sure that the latest schedules 
are always posted, and circles each of the bus times 
that are relevant to Bella Vista. Unlike nearly every 
bus stop in New Haven, the space offers commuters a 
warm place to wait for the bus in the winter. Move New 
Haven reports that of the 943 bus stops in New Haven 
maintained by the city, only 103 have shelters. Of those, 
only twenty-one have benches. None are heated.


On the way back from Bella Vista to downtown, we 
stopped at the corner of Church and Chapel, where the 
bus switched routes to the 238. The doors swung open 
to let a line of passengers board.

A middle-aged man in a wheelchair pulled up to 
the bus’s front door. The floor at the head of the bus 
popped outwards and became a ramp to the sidewalk. 
The man pushed forward, and the driver assisted him to 
the designated wheelchair spot on the bus. The passen-
gers occupying the area were glad to move. The driver 
knelt to connect the belt buckles that would hold the 
wheelchair in place, but the man waved him away and 
fastened them himself. 

Unfortunately, New Haven buses are not always so 
accommodating of riders with disabilities. Former 2017 
candidate for Ward 22 alder Yansee Horan, who uses a 
manual wheelchair, claims he has been treated poorly 
on public transit before. Horan, known as “Brother 
Born” in the Dixwell and Newhallville communities, 
has been riding buses for years. “Sometimes the buses 
get so packed,” Horan said. “You want to get on, but the 
driver’s like, ‘Yo, I can’t let you on. There’s too many 
people.’”

At a Move New Haven public presentation on the 
findings of Phase 1 on November 1, residents voiced sim-
ilar concerns. One elderly woman, a friend of DeMar-
tin, claimed her daughter, who is in a wheelchair, faced 
an identical situation: she was denied entry to a bus 
because passengers refused to move from the foldable 
seats. TC Taylor, a resident of the Dixwell neighbor-
hood who rides the 238 bus every day, said access is an 
even bigger problem in wintertime. “The [snowplows] 
push the snow drift higher and higher. They don’t have 
people in position to make the areas accessible to walk,” 
Taylor said. “You have children, the elderly, the ambu-
latory in the street. It’s virtually impossible for them…
to make that connection onto the bus.”

Horan agrees. “During the winter months, they rarely 
even clean the bus stops,” he said. “So during the win-
tertime, I’m going nowhere. Trust me on that.”

O
ur country is emerging from an era of car dom-
inance. The spaces we occupy, from grocery 
stores to school, privilege the private auto-
mobile, providing parking spaces and right-of-way. In 
Downtown New Haven, the Temple Street Garage 
looms over its neighboring properties, spanning two 
entire city blocks. Even at the Bella Vista housing com-
plex, parking garages occupy as much ground as the 
towers. Since the construction of the Oak Street Con-
nector in 1959, a network of highways has choked the 
city center.

But with a renewed interest in support for public 
transportation—through initiatives like Move New 
Haven—the city has been given another chance to 
condemn the inequitable and destructive policies of 
American car culture and become universally acces-
sible. Although the committee has not yet released its 
recommendations, inklings of what it could include 
have already been published in the first phase’s full 
report. Connecting routes to contemporary job loca-
tions, smarter intermodal connections, rethinking the 
hub and spoke system, and providing a reserved spot for 
wheelchairs at all times are just some of the many possi-
bilities. For many New Haven residents, like DeMartin, 
who rely on the city’s bus lines, simply identifying these 
problems is a sign of progress. If any of these ideas were 
pursued, New Haven would be better off.

“We design our ecosystems around the assumption 
of the automobile,” Hausladen said. “It used to be that 
civil rights was where on the bus you sat. Now it’s about 
where your bus goes and how long it takes to get there.”

— Andrew Sandweiss is a 
junior inTrumbull College.
“Sometimes the buses get so 
packed ... You want to get on, but 
the driver’s like, ‘Yo, I can’t let 
you on. There’s too many 



**Title: Memento Mori**
**Author: Henry Reichard**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

W
e found the skull in a field by the creek. 
We were young then, my sister and I, young 
enough that an old sheep’s skeleton, still 
mostly preserved, still unravaged by dogs, was no more 
than a curiosity, and the heavy skull, still greasy, still 
smelling strongly of brains, was a trophy waiting to 
be brought back and presented to our mother. She 
accepted it, washed it, and finally decided to display it 
on a shelf in the basement. She cherished most of our 
macabre prizes—the fox skeleton, the crow skull, the 
hardened bird nests and torn snake skins—but, more 
than a decade later, she told me that she was never 
fond of those which came from sheep. She discreetly 
returned almost all of these to the fields. “In some 
sense,” she explained, “they were a testimony to my 
inevitable failure as a shepherd to keep things from 
dying.” 

My family came to the farm sixteen years ago. My 
mother competed actively in sheepdog trials in those 
days, and she had grown tired of training her dogs on 
other people’s sheep. And so, when I was a little over 
four, my parents sold their tiny apartment in west Palo 
Alto for an improbable sum and bought fifty-three acres 
in rural Maryland, which they then populated with 
a flock of about fifty sheep. I have no recollection of 
Palo Alto—for me, it is a city that lives only in mantel 
pictures. My earliest memories are of wading through 
weedy meadows down by the creek, of sculpting clay 
with my sister on the banks, of wondering what it would 
be like to get lost in the woods, of staring at mistrustful 
ewes that always kept me thirty paces away from their 
lambs. It was in these years that our basement became 
a repository for dead animals: we accumulated several 
shelves full of their remains. For much of my child-
hood these bones watched over me while I played with 
blocks in the basement, and I expect that most of them 
will never leave the farm. One familiar bone, though, 
left about a month ago, and now it resides in a strange 
country without fields, creeks, or sheep. It sits on the 
table before me in my dorm in New Haven. It is the 
only part of the farm that I have carried with me into 
the city.

The skull is old now. There are cracks running 
through it, down the middle and along the sides, and 
in many places the bone is fraying—where the outer 
surface has worn away, the honeycombed interior 
resembles a desiccated coral. The deterioration is 
worst around the nose: there, the bone has thinned to 
a paper’s width, and it has fractured so jaggedly that 
if I run my finger along the edge, I fear that I will be 
cut. Amidst my never-living books and papers, the skull 
seems out of place. It has never heard traffic before or 
been much inclined to religion, but in the city a thou-
sand cars pass by it every hour, and every hour it is 
startled by the sound of church bells. My dorm’s single 
window gives it a slanted view of Temple Street, but 
illustration julia hedges


the scene beyond the glass never changes. It watches 
people hurrying past, pushing each other aside, check-
ing their watches: moving with urban urgency. And it 
never sees any sheep.

My family has had this skull for nearly fifteen years. 
By now it has lost most of its weight—has become 
lighter than a newborn lamb—and has also lost its 
smell. Or rather, it has lost its original, unmistakable 
smell. What it has retained is faint, subtle, and inde-
scribable. It does not smell like hay, but it reminds me 
of springtime lambs nursing in a hay-stocked barn; it 
does not smell like grass, but it reminds me of yearlings 
grazing on a summer paddock; it does not smell like 
wool, but it reminds me of old ewes huddling under 
their fleeces in an autumnal frost; it no longer smells 
like carrion, but it reminds me of a childhood January 
when I saw vultures arcing lazy spirals over a snowy 
field. It does not smell like sheep, but it reminds me 
of sheep in a way that the skull’s hollow eyes, fractured 
nose, and jawless grin never could. 

S
ometime in early March of every year I can 
remember on the farm, I have woken to hear 
bleating from the season’s first lambs echoing 
down from the barn. On the matted hay and between 
the small blue stalls, the lambs come out covered with 
placenta. They are ugly at first, and wobbly, and as tired 
from labor as their mothers. Yet they stand and nurse 
within an hour, and they are steady within a day, and 
within a few weeks they are on the wide green fields, 
crying petulantly and incessantly for milk, tumbling 
and jumping in their little lamb races over the hills. 
This was the single season when we children were reg-
ularly conscripted to farm work. It is by spring that I 
best remember the farm, and it is by the lambs that I 
best remember the sheep. 

The Border Collies, on the other hand, have never 
been fond of lambs. A sheepdog is accustomed to a cer-
tain respect from livestock, and most ewes, remember-
ing the dog’s ancestors, grudgingly give it to them. But 
a month-old lamb, too young to remember anything, 
will sometimes approach a Collie, sniff its nose, and 
seem to ask whether the dog would like to be its friend. 
This spectacle is almost as traumatizing for the dog—
who would like nothing better than to eat the insane 
lamb but knows it is not allowed to do so—as it is for 
the lamb’s horrified mother. Collies prefer carrion, 
which for them is not only a delicacy, but also a per-
fume even more captivating than feces. Sheepdogs who 
have beautified themselves with such perfumes are, as 
one might imagine, best admired from afar. But if one 
admires them from the proper distance, if one watches 
as they circle around a flock, as they creep up slowly 
on it, ready to dart left or right, their unblinking eyes 
steady and fixated, dominating the sheep through sheer 
will, their tail down, neither wagging nor tucked, their 
deliberate paws silently treading the ground, slowly 
closing the distance…from that vantage, my mother’s 
dogs are nothing less than beautiful.  

hen our sheep have had to run from neigh-
bors’ dogs, they have almost always chosen 
to run downhill, and that always leads them 
into water. There is some safety in this habit—it’s 
harder for the dogs to get a grip on the sheep while 
they are swimming—but sometimes they reach the 
water too late. And so it was that, about ten years ago, 
a year-old ewe jumped into our little pond and two 
black-and-white German Shepherds jumped in after 
her. I was only ten. What I remember is a frenzy of 
unfamiliar barking from the yard and a commotion in 
the kitchen and my mother shouting to my father and 
my father running upstairs and coming down with the 
long black rifle and then the sound of gunshots and an 
end to the sound of barking. Silence. My father coming 
back into the kitchen and returning to the fields with a 
knife. More silence. Silent minutes pooling like sum-
mer molasses. Then finally my mother storming back 
into the house furious at the woman who had let her 
dogs get into our sheep and my father following her 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Henry Reichard**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 16
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
and washing his hands and then explaining to his chil-
dren in measured tones that the yearling whose throat 
he had just slit had already been bloody and mangled 
and gasping and dying. Telling us it was happier now 
that it was dead.

My father is not a violent man by nature. None of 
this came naturally. He loves dogs and sheep, and he 
could never kill either of them without regretting the 
need for it afterwards. His first and favorite dog, a bea-
gle named Rupert, was exactly the sort of unruly ani-
mal who would terrorize sheep if given a chance. Years 
later, when he became a buddhist and started to begin 
each dinner with a prayer for the happiness of all sen-
tient beings, he regretted shooting dogs even more. But 
if he is a poor buddhist when he runs upstairs for the 
gun, he is also a good shepherd.


O
ver the years, my father has shot four more dogs. 
The most recent one was a yellow and brown 
Labrador mix named George, who broke into 
our sheep twice with his brother Fred. There will not 
be another. Now, there are hardly any sheep left for 
them to chase. My mother gave up sheepdog trials years 
ago and began teaching philosophy at a small college. 
Vic, Lark, and Bonnie—the dogs she once brought to 
trials —are all buried beside the pond, and the current 
generation of Collies is beginning to grow gray. So are 
my parents. They are both in their 50s: a fine age for 
teaching philosophy and for counting breaths, but an 
unwieldy one for maintaining a farm. That is part of 
the reason why, this past summer, they sold all but our 
three oldest sheep, and why they hope to sell the fields 
those three will die on within a year. The other part, 
which my mother confided to me only a few days ago, 
is that she can no longer bear to be a shepherd. 

She can no longer bear to help a ram lamb take its 
first steps and nurse, knowing that after six months of 
sunny green pastures she will send it to the butcher. 
She could no longer bear to eat lamb five years ago: 
that was when she began feeding it to the dogs, sell-
ing it to friends, or if she served it to us, not eating it 
herself. But soon that will all be behind her, for the 
lambs are gone, the farm will soon go, and my parents 
have just made an offer on a little green house in New 
Haven. And perhaps here, in the city, eating lamb will 
be easier. 

In a city, it is so easy to buy lamb stuffed into lifeless 
packages from sterile counters—packages that do not 
bleat, that do not remind you of living creatures racing 
across spring meadows: packages that were prepared by 
others. In a city, perhaps my father will finally be able 
to make the Prātimokṣa oath of nonviolence that he 
could never commit to on the farm. Here, no sheep 
will die because of that oath, and so keeping it will be 
easy. Many things will be easier in a city. And maybe 
that is why, since I have lost the sheep and the fields, I 
feel that I must keep the skull. I will set it on a shelf in 
my dorm, and there it will remind me of what it meant 
to live on a farm.
— Henry Reichard is a junior 
in Silliman College.


**Title: By No Means Immune**
**Author: Max Graham**
**Page number(s): 17-18**

 17
BY NO MEANS
IMMUNE
BY MAX GRAHAM
“I
f this gets any worse, I’ll think I can fly,” 
Wes thought, as he looked down onto College 
Street from the top of the Silliman tower. He 
had taken LSD and cocaine an hour or two earlier. 
Afraid of what might come next, he backed away 
from the window. 

Within moments, he threw up.

 He closed his eyes. A feeling of doom swept over 
him. He was certain that he had died and was experi-
encing a post-death state. 

He dialed home.
 “Mom, I think I’m dying.”
“Physically or mentally?” 
“Both.” 
He hung up the phone, got in a cab to Union Sta-
tion, and boarded a train home to New York.  

I
t was a Friday afternoon in October 2015, the fall 
semester of Wes’s sophomore year at Yale. Wes 
was not dying. He was hallucinating. Although he 
A new emergency drug policy at Yale attempts to draw 
addiction out of the shadows.
photos elinor hills


 18
feared he was overdosing, he was actually just having 
a bad trip, an experience marked by overwhelming 
terror and anxiety that can occur when using LSD. 
About thirty minutes before arriving in New York, 
Wes sobered up. Only then did he realize he was safe. 
Five days after this harrowing episode, Wes (a 
pseudonym used to protect his identity) requested a 
medical withdrawal from Yale, telling school officials 
that he needed time off to seek help for “depression 
and anxiety.” He intentionally omitted the real rea-
son: substance use disorder, otherwise known as drug 
addiction.

Wes did not disclose his drug use because he wor-
ried about getting in trouble. He thought the univer-
sity would be more sympathetic if he claimed he was 
seeking help for depression. If he told his dean he 
did drugs, he assumed there would be disciplinary or 
legal consequences.

At the time, there was no written policy suggesting 
that the University would treat the use of illicit drugs 
as a medical concern. The Yale College Undergrad-
uate Regulations lists “unlawful possession, use, pur-
chase, or distribution of illicit drugs or controlled 
substances (including stimulants, depressants, nar-
cotics, or hallucinogenic drugs)” under “offenses 
subject to disciplinary action.” In other words, Yale’s 
only written policy on drug use was labeled as a dis-
ciplinary issue. 

On October 23, 2017, the University updated its 
Medical Emergency Policy. The new Policy states 
that if a student overdoses on alcohol or drugs and 
another student calls for help, neither student will 
face disciplinary action. The goal of the policy is to 
ensure that students will not hesitate to seek help in 
the event of a substance use emergency. Before the 
change, the Medical Emergency Policy only covered 
alcohol. If a student overdosed on heroin or cocaine, 
for example, they would not have been exempt from 
disciplinary charges.

It was and still is Yale policy that if a student gets 
caught using drugs in any non-emergency situation, 
even if they suffer from substance use disorder, they 
are subject to disciplinary action. However, this does 
not mean the student will be disciplined. There have 
been cases in which students struggling with sub-
stance use disorder were forthcoming with school 
administrators and did not face punishment.

After becoming the first-ever director of Yale’s 
Alcohol and Other Drugs Harm Reduction Initiative 
(AODHRI) in June 2017, Dr. Lynn Fiellin pushed 
hard to update the Medical Emergency Policy to 
encompass “other drugs.” Emphasizing that the 
health and safety of students should be the Univer-
sity’s primary concern, she argued that it “makes no 
sense” for a medical emergency policy to apply only 
to alcohol. Students are more likely to trust a policy 
that covers all substances.  

As for why the policy was not changed until Octo-
ber 2017, Yale College Dean of Student Affairs 
Camille Lizarribar said the delay was not due to 
concerns with changing the policy, but rather the 
fact that “it took time to get input, changes, and pro-
cesses in place.” She said the biggest challenges were 
logistical, such as the arrival of Dean Chun and the 
death of three students last fall, which required more 
urgent attention.

Riley Tillitt, a senior and president of Yale Students 
for a Sensible Drug Policy (SSDP), an undergradu-
ate organization that pushed for the policy change, 
said his organization did not face much resistance 
from the administration. “I think most deans would 
support a drug amnesty policy,” he said, adding that 
the most common argument against it was a concern 
it would encourage drug use. 

Tillitt’s predecessor at SSDP, Clay Dupuy, a senior, 
said the University wanted to wait and see how the 
alcohol Medical Emergency Policy would pan out 
before they extended it to all substances. According 
to both him and Dr. Fiellin, there has been an uptick 
in the number of transports called for alcohol-related 
emergencies since the alcohol policy was adopted. 
The increase could have been due to higher levels of 
alcohol consumption or the fact that people are more 
comfortable calling for help. Dr. Fiellin believes it 
is the latter, saying the alcohol Medical Emergency 
Policy has been a success and ought to serve as fur-
ther evidence that the policy should include other 
drugs. 

Concerns about the worsening opioid epidemic 
also influenced the policy change. Although the rate 
of opioid overdoses at Yale is lower than the national 
average,  “Yale is by no means immune to the national 
“YALE IS BY NO 
MEANS IMMUNE TO 
THE NATIONAL OPIOID 
EPIDEMIC.”



**Title: The Yale Opioid Crisis**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 19
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
NOVEMBER 2017
opioid epidemic,” Dr. Fiellin said. 

The crisis extends well beyond needles and heroin. 

Many people get hooked on prescription painkillers 
after undergoing surgery or getting wisdom teeth 
removed. Some do not know they are addicted until 
it is too late. Opioid use disorder “doesn’t stay away 
from smart and talented people,” Dr. Fiellin said.
Opioid use is claiming the lives of tens of thou-
sands of people around the country, including New 
Haven and the rest of Connecticut. According to 
the CDC, on average, 142 people die from a drug 
overdose per day in the U.S., and at least ninety of 
those deaths are caused by opioid use. In Connecti-
cut alone, the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner 
projects 1,078 drug overdose deaths in 2017, which 
is more than a 15 percent increase from last year. 
The risk of a Yalie overdosing is greater now than 
ever. Lindsey Rogers, a student at the Yale School of 
Public Health who is studying the opioid epidemic, 
said she is “one thousand percent sure” that, given 
the extent of the crisis, there will be an opioid-related 
death on Yale’s campus in the next five to ten years. 

L
ast year, Jeff came close.  Jeff, who is a current 
Yale student but was not enrolled at the time 
of the incident, does not fit the profile of a ste-
reotypical heroin addict. Jeff (a pseudonym used to 
protect his identity) is smart. He wears nice clothes. 
He is a talented musician. He is, by all standards, 
functional. Yet despite this exterior, Jeff struggles 
with opioid use disorder. 

Before arriving on campus, Jeff did not do drugs. 
He had smoked marijuana only three times in his life 
and rarely, if ever, drank alcohol. His views aligned 
with societal norms; he thought drugs were “bad” 
and had no desire to start using them, he said. 
But after coming to Yale, Jeff’s attitude changed. 
He began drinking during his freshman year at par-
ties and other social gatherings—but only moder-
ately, “like any normal freshman,” he said. In addi-
tion, many of the older students in Jeff’s music group 
smoked often, and Jeff and his fellow freshmen in 
the group felt encouraged to join them. “It wasn’t 
anything crazy, just about once a week,” Jeff said, 
describing the frequency of his use. He remembers 
being really excited about drinking and smoking with 
friends. Getting high and drunk was novel and fun, 
he said. 

During his sophomore year, Jeff’s drug use ramped 
up. He started smoking much more regularly—one, 
two, even three times a day. He had grown tired of 
the pressure of school and found that smoking helped 
him cope with stress. By the end of his sophomore 
year, “I was addicted to weed,” he said. 


---

 20
Jeff’s foray into drugs other than alcohol and mar-
ijuana did not start until the spring semester of his 
junior year, when he was studying abroad in Amster-
dam. He made a group of friends there who intro-
duced him to a variety of new substances: MDMA 
(ecstasy), cocaine, LSD, and hallucinogenic mush-
rooms. 

Jeff was excited to push his limits. Marijuana and 
alcohol had become all too familiar. The new drugs 
seemed like windows into unknown worlds. “I was 
using for the novelty,” he said. “My overall theory 
was that I would know myself better as a person if I 
had had every experience known to man.” 

He tried several new substances overseas and 
continued using them, though less often, when he 
returned to the U.S. But there were some paths he 
was afraid to go down: “The two drugs I told myself 
I’d never do were methamphetamine and heroin,” he 
said, knowing them to be especially addictive. 

Then, just a few months later, Jeff got his wisdom 
teeth removed and was prescribed oxycodone, an 
opioid painkiller. He was given dozens of pills but 
told to take only a few as needed. Jeff started with 
a couple, but he did not stop there. Loving the way 
they made him feel, “I took one, two, three, until I 
finished the bottle,” he said. “I had no idea that I was 
getting addicted to these [pills]. I was so oblivious to 
the fact that these are aggressively addicting.” 

Before he knew it, he was hooked. He went back 
to the pharmacy and got a refill. When he finished 
the refill, he searched around his house and found 
several of his parents’ old prescriptions. When he ran 
out of those, he turned to the Dark Web—the black 
market of the Internet—where he ordered a nasal 
spray laced with fentanyl, an opioid up to 50 times 
more potent than heroin. (According to the Office of 
the Chief Medical Officer, fentanyl is projected to 
kill 644 people in Connecticut in 2017, more than 
any other drug.) Jeff used the nasal spray every day 
for the rest of the summer.  

While he was using, no one, himself included, 
realized that he was becoming seriously addicted. He 
was able to keep up his music and maintain strong 
friendships. Some of his friends were faintly aware 
that he was using narcotics recreationally—Jeff said 
he sometimes even offered his friends the nasal spray 
at parties—but it did not strike them as a big deal. 
Because Jeff appeared “functional”—he had a 
job that summer and the “Yale student” label still 
applied to him—his struggle with opioid use stayed 
under the radar. “It’s definitely possible to be a pro-
ductive member of society as an addict,” Jeff said. 

A few times, his friends caught him nodding off, a 
sign of an opioid high. Still, no one suspected he was 
struggling with addiction. 

Upon returning to campus in the fall, Jeff stopped 
using for a few days when he did not have access to 
narcotics. He felt extremely hot one moment and 
awfully cold the next. Every minor prick and pres-
sure caused him immense pain, and he suffered 
uncontrollable diarrhea. Going through withdrawal 
BECAUSE JEFF APPEARED 
‘FUNCTIONAL’, HIS 
STRUGGLE WITH OPIOID 
USE STAYED UNDER THE 
RADAR.



 21
was one of the most miserable experiences in his life, 

The solution was clear to him: he would swear off 
opioids forever. He had not signed up for this when 
he started abusing prescription painkillers a month 
earlier. Jeff described having a “coming to Jesus 
moment” and was determined to get sober. 

But after two months without opioids, Jeff was feel-
ing restless on a dreary November day and decided to 
order more fentanyl from the Internet. Boredom and 
loneliness were his two biggest triggers. On nights 
when not much was happening and he did not have 
an outlet for his restlessness, he struggled to resist 
using narcotics. Even though he was well aware of 
the risk of relapsing, “I was not in a place where I 
cared,” he said.

A couple evenings later, Jeff, high on fentanyl, 
fell to the floor of his off-campus apartment. Upon 
finding him lying unconscious, one of his roommates 
called an ambulance, which arrived in time to inject 
him with Narcan, a highly effective antidote. Had 
an ambulance not come, Jeff almost certainly would 
have died. He was discharged from the hospital the 
next morning.  

Although Jeff was in New Haven at the time, he 
was not enrolled in Yale. As a result, he was not at risk 
of facing disciplinary consequences, and his room-
mate was able to call for help without any hesitation.  
Had Jeff been enrolled, he could have been brought 
before the Executive Committee, which could have 
imposed a punishment ranging from “reprimand” to 
“expulsion,” according to Yale College Undergrad-
uate Regulations. Jeff overdosed in the fall of 2016. 
At the time, the University handled all drug-related 
incidents on a case-by-case basis, so there was no 
way of knowing exactly how Jeff’s situation would 
have turned out. In the spring of 2014, thirty-three 
drug-related cases were brought before the Executive 
Committee, according to the Executive Committee 
Chair’s Report from that spring. The Report does not 
specify the outcomes of those cases.

The new Medical Emergency Policy, however, 
states that a person “consuming alcohol or other 
drugs who is helped will not be charged by the Yale 
College Executive Committee with alcohol or other 
drug violations, but may have to complete coun-
seling, educational, or training programs within an 
agreed upon timeframe.” Under this policy, a student 
in the same position as Jeff would not be brought 
before the Executive  Committee.

I
n January 2014, Clay Dupuy stood helpless in 
the Hopper College courtyard as he watched his 
friend get handcuffed and carried away by four 
Yale policemen. He and his friend had taken LSD a 
few hours earlier. 

Clay began using LSD during his freshman fall to 
cope with his depression, which was undiagnosed at 
the time. “I discovered that I could use [LSD and 
marijuana] recreationally, and have everyone believe 
that I was using just as they were, when really it was 
quite therapeutic for me,” he said. 

Over winter break, Clay was formally diagnosed 
with bipolar disorder and prescribed medicine, so he 
BOREDOM AND 
LONELINESS WERE HIS TWO 
BIGGEST TRIGGERS. 


**Title: Clay's Case: A Yale Student's Experience with LSD and the Consequences**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Clay, a Yale student, resolved to stop using LSD. But he and his friend had been planning to take LSD for over a month. Clay did not want to reveal his diagnosis, so he decided to take the drug one last time. 

The friend had a bad trip, freaked out, ran down a flight of stairs in Hopper and broke a vase in a fellow’s suite. The fellow, who was in the suite at the time, immediately called the police. 

When paramedics arrived, Clay told them everything—when, what, and how much he took—concerned his friend was in medical danger and hoping that the information might save his life. He was also entirely forthcoming with his dean. It did not occur to him that he might face serious disciplinary or legal consequences. 

Clay said he knew the punishment for marijuana was not severe, and since LSD is “safer,” he thought the punishment for it would not be bad either. The University’s written policy did not and still does not differentiate between marijuana and LSD. Both fall under the category of “illicit drugs.”

The next day, Clay went before the Yale Executive Committee, facing a penalty that could range anywhere from a slap on the wrist to full expulsion. After a series of hearings, the Committee decided to suspend Clay for three semesters. In addition, Clay was charged criminally by the Yale Police Department. If he had been found guilty, he would have had to serve up to 22 years in prison and pay up to $100,000 in fines. Eventually a deal was struck: charges would be dropped if Clay did not get arrested for a year.

Clay is still suffering the consequences. His family went into serious debt paying for a lawyer, which Clay has had to work hard to pay off, and his suspension will be visible to potential employers for the rest of his life.  

It is hard to know exactly how things would have played out had the updated Medical Emergency Policy been in place at the time. Although the policy does not define “medical emergency,” Dean Lizarribar said, “A ‘medical emergency’ has no one answer. Anytime a student is concerned or in distress they should always call for help, and as long as they do so and follow through on what AODHRI and [Yale College] requests of them, they will not be subject to discipline by [Yale College].” A bad trip, such as the one Clay’s friend had, would likely qualify under this broad understanding of “medical emergency.” Clay’s specific case, however, would not have been covered because neither he nor another student called for help.


**Title: Wes's Struggle: Hiding Substance Use Disorder at Yale**
**Page number(s): 23-24**

Unlike Clay, Wes was not upfront about his drug use. In the two years before his bad trip in the Silliman tower, Wes was able to hide his struggle with substance use disorder from just about everyone, including his parents, friends, and girlfriend. Cocaine and LSD—the two drugs Wes was on that day—were not the only ones he regularly used. During the first month of Wes’ sophomore year, he was doing anything he could get his hands on: alcohol, marijuana, LSD, MDMA, cocaine, painkillers, ADHD meds, tranquilizers, and antidepressants. “I couldn’t go an hour without doing something to change how I felt,” he said. Wes was using multiple substances a day, often attending class intoxicated, if attending at all. He had developed a constant craving for stimulation. He needed the high. 

To make matters more difficult, his growing dependency was complicated by worsening anxiety. “The constant rush of chemicals was devastating as far as my ability to absorb stress,” he said. His psychological state was in endless flux, up one moment and down the next. Wes observed that the “comedown” associated with stimulant use—the state of feeling very low after experiencing a rush—exacerbated his anxiety. His frequent stimulant use caused a never-ending psychological rollercoaster, which had crippling effects on his emotional stability. The more he used, the worse his anxiety got, and the worse his anxiety got, the more he used. It was a “chicken and an egg sort of thing.” 

Yet despite the extent of his drug use and emotional turmoil, no one had a clue about just how far his life had gotten away from him. Wes did a remarkable job of concealing his struggle. “If you looked in on my life from the outside,” he said, “it would’ve looked like I was put together. I was always going to pull some shit, make something up, and come out on top, feeling in control. But I was becoming increasingly depressed and anxious.” Wes had built up a façade that no one could see through. From the outside looking in, he could have been any Yalie. 

Wes’s relationship with drugs began long before he enrolled at Yale. As a kid, he was diagnosed with severe ADHD and prescribed Ritalin. He took the pills on a daily basis through middle school and high school. In addition, Wes struggled with anxiety disorder. When he was fifteen, he started smoking with marijuana with friends and discovered that it helped him cope with his anxiety. By junior year, he was smoking just about every day. “I knew from the beginning that the way I related to substances wasn’t normal,” he said. 

During his senior year of high school, Wes’s drug use took a turn when, as in Jeff’s case, Wes got his wisdom teeth removed. He was prescribed thirty Vicodin pills to ease the pain but told to take only three. Wes finished the entire bottle in the course of a weekend. On Monday, out of pills, he felt terribly ill. “A darkness came over me,” Wes said. And so began his addiction to hard drugs.

Opioids were not the only ones. As high-school senioritis kicked in, Wes started snorting his ADHD medicine, giving him a more intense high. To offset the anxiety of the comedown from that high, he began using Klonopin, an anti-anxiety medication that Wes called “pretty much a tranquilizer.” 

“It was scary to be doing this,” Wes said. “I knew it was out of control. I knew it wasn’t a good idea.” 

Two days after he delivered the valedictory speech at his graduation, Wes voluntarily went to rehab. The second he arrived, he was terrified. As an educated kid from a privileged background, he said he couldn’t relate to the people there, who were much less well-off. “Yet the way they spoke about drugs and alcohol—the way they obsessed over drugs, the way drugs made them feel—I identified with it. That terrified me,” Wes said. 

Wes hated rehab so much that after a month he checked himself out against medical advice. That created a huge rift between him and his parents, who wanted him to continue treatment. Things got so heated that Wes contemplated cutting off all ties. He came out of rehab thinking, “Fuck my parents. I’m not done [doing drugs]. I can handle this.” A month before coming to Yale, his parents told him that they would only pay for college if he had a sober coach, drug testing, and took steps to seek treatment and stay sober on campus.

For the next thirteen months, Wes lived what he called a “double life.” He faked his drug tests with synthetic urine, and he successfully convinced his parents to get rid of the sober coach. His parents bought his lies. They thought he was recovering, but his addiction was actually progressing. During his freshman year, Wes smoked and used stimulants


**Title: WHILE HIS GIRLFRIEND LAY ASLEEP IN BED BESIDE HIM, HE SNORTED LINES OFF HIS DESK.**
**Author: Max Graham**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
While his girlfriend lay asleep in bed beside him, he snorted lines off his desk.
daily and began experimenting with new drugs, like 
cocaine, LSD and MDMA. His substance use and 
anxiety gradually worsened throughout the year, but 
he was able to keep up with his social life and aca-
demics, even maintaining above a 3.5 GPA. 
After the incident in the Silliman tower early in 
his sophomore year, Wes spent the weekend at home. 
Although his parents could tell that something was 
wrong, he did not tell them about the cocaine and 
LSD, saying he had had an anxiety attack and needed 
to unwind for a few days at home. 
Wes returned to campus before the next school 
week, but his façade was about to come crashing 
down. His drug use was out of control, and a month 
finto the semester, he was nearly a month behind on 
his schoolwork. One night, he had to read an entire 
book for seminar the next day and felt he needed 
something to get him through it. “If I do cocaine, I’ll 
be able to read the whole book,” he thought. While 
his girlfriend lay asleep in bed beside him, he snorted 
lines off his desk. By 6 a.m., he had run out of the 
drug. He crashed. When he woke up, he realized he 
had slept through the seminar. 
 “I was in the middle of a trifecta: I had crippling 
anxiety; I was a month behind on schoolwork a 
month into the semester; I couldn’t stop doing drugs 
and drinking,” Wes said. It was at that moment that 
he decided to take a medical withdrawal.
T
he threat of disciplinary action is not the only 
barrier between students who struggle with 
substance use disorder and a willingness to 
seek help. “Shame  about having a problem with 
drugs or alcohol, compounded with concerns about 
how the person with the problem will be viewed, get 
in the way of people talking openly about substance 
use or getting help when they need it,” said Dr. Rich-
ard Schottenfeld, former Head of Davenport College 
and a leader in the field of addiction science. 
Wes said much of the shame he felt kept him from 
seeking help. And Jeff observed that being stigma-
tized for using drugs is harmful: “The one thing that 
I’d tell Yalies is to question the stigma, to question 
the prevailing norms surrounding substance abuse, 
and in that, to question the way they treat people.” 
Two days after overdosing, Jeff resumed using fen-
tanyl. A few months later, he quit, but then relapsed 
within weeks. Eventually, at the beginning of the 
summer of 2017, he went to rehab and has been 
sober ever since. But he still worries that, if he ever 
gets bored or lonely enough, he might relapse again. 
Wes spent his year and a half away from Yale at 
a residential treatment center, where he made large 
strides in his struggle with substance use disorder. He 
was reinstated in Yale in the spring of 2017.  
As he finished telling me his story on a sunny Sep-
tember day in the Silliman courtyard, his mood was 
remarkably upbeat. “I’ve built myself into a person I 
can be proud of,” he said. There were a few setbacks 
along the way, but “every time I slipped, I picked 
myself up faster each time.” 
With Yale’s updated drug policy, students will 
hopefully be more upfront about their drug use 
and seek the resources they need. Although the pol-
icy applies only to emergency situations, it is a step 
toward creating a culture of openness. Still, students 
and school officials must continue working on ways 
to dispel the stigmas that have prevented many from 
seeking help.
— Max Graham is a sophomore
in Davenport College.


**Title: LATE OCTOBER**
**Author: Anna Sudderth**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

p o e m
Anna Sudderth
On the couch
together, in the casual light 
of the afternoon, my legs 
draped across her, and both of us 
sipping tea, she reached
to brush a bit of dirt
from my forehead, only
it wasn’t dirt, it slipped
back up into my hair, 
and neither of us wanted
to believe it, but
it was true, I had been 
scratching for days. So,
because I wasn’t home
for long, with no time
to waste, we did 
the whole thing,
just as in childhood:
bathed my scalp 
over the sink with the stuff
from the blue bottle,
rinsed it out, her hand
over my eyes to keep them
dry, and finally, just 
after sunset, began: strand
by strand, she picked
the nits out, small 
and clear as beads of water 
on her comb. Like returning 
to a dream we’d shared, 
but couldn’t quite 
remember, except 
through reenactment,
each small gesture spurring
the next, she pushed
my head forward
and back, I sighed,
and the lamp, with its shade
removed, kept us
in its light, even
as outside became dark, 
and the windows turned
to mirrors, reflecting
all of it back to me,
already exactly how 
I would remember it:
me, slouched forward,
tall body bent so that
my mother could best
reach, and my mother, 
cheeks unevenly red, 
grimacing, working
over each clump of hair 
again and again, hands
trembling slightly—we spent
four nights like this,
and then I left,
and as it turned out,
it had worked, the lice
were gone. And I told
everybody, all my friends
about it, the infestation, and 
of course, they laughed
at such a disclosure. 
Mama, although
I am away from you
now, I think you will be glad 
to know that I am doing
better these past days,
I am spending the weekend
in a cabin on a lake
way north even 
of Connecticut. It is
so beautiful, the sky,
and all the leaves just
changing; see, across
the lake, those yellow trees—
they are truly
gleaming, they are
really that bright. Oh,
and the lake, sparkling,
blue, wind hurrying 
the surface of the water, all
those ripples, fast and cold.
—  Anna Sudderth is a junior
 in Pierson College.
illustration fiona drenttel



**A fragile sanctuary**
**Author: Eliza Fawcett**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
A fragile sanctuary
By Eliza Fawcett
Photos by Robbie Short


Marco Antonio Reyes Alvarez’s bags were almost 
packed. He had his ticket for a flight the next 
morning, August 8, to Ecuador, the country he 
left twenty years ago for the United States. At his home in 
Meriden—a small city midway between Hartford and New 
Haven—Fanny Torres Reyes, his wife of twenty-four years, 
their three children, and thirty relatives had gathered for his 
final hours in the country. His deportation loomed on the 
other side of the night.
“We were saying goodbye, crying, making his suitcases,” 
Torres Reyes remembered. She is forty years old, slight, with 
expressive eyes and dark brown hair that falls just below her 
shoulders. “He was even [packing] some tools to bring over 
there so he would be able to work.”

It would be a two-hour drive to the airport in New York 
City, a six-and-a-half-hour flight to Ecuador, and a decade 
before he could begin to petition the United States gov-
ernment for re-entry. That process alone could take up to 
five years. By then, his twelve-year-old daughter, Adriana, 
an American citizen, could sponsor her father’s request for 
readmission. Or maybe one of their other children—twen-
ty-three-year old Evelyn and twenty-one-year-old Anthony, 
both DACA recipients—would have gained legal status 
through marriage and could vouch for him. But he would 
still need to apply for a waiver of his removal order. It could 
be well over a decade before Reyes Alvarez saw his family 
again, or perhaps he would never be able to return.
“Muy, muy, muy, muy duro,” Reyes Alvarez said with a 
heavy sigh, remembering that night. “You had to say good-
bye to your son, your wife…”

Forty-five years old, Reyes Alvarez has a compact build, 
a soft, square face, and dark hair trimmed close to his head. 
He has a quiet gentleness that belies his steadfast resolve. 
In 1997, he made the two-week trek from Ecuador to Texas, 
sometimes walking for days on end, in search of better pros-
pects for his family. He settled in Connecticut and estab-
lished himself as a construction worker skilled in everything 
from sheetrock and drywall to carpentry and framing. His 
young family soon joined him. For the next twenty years, he 
was their sole provider.
THE WALLS OF A NEW HAVEN CHURCH 
PROTECT MARCO ANTONIO REYES 
ALVAREZ FROM DEPORTATION. NO ONE 
KNOWS FOR HOW LONG.
Marco Reyes Alvarez and his wife, Fanny Torres Reyes, in his room in First and Summerfield UMC.


Now, years of fighting a deportation order dating back to 
2009 would end at dawn. The week before his deportation 
date, Erin O’Neil-Baker, his Hartford-based attorney, had 
filed a motion to reopen his case with the Board of Immi-
gration Appeals on the grounds of asylum. If Reyes Alvarez 
returned to Ecuador, O’Neil-Baker said, he would be in 
certain danger. His brother-in-law had recently been mur-
dered there by a suspect who, after a brief prison sentence, 
was now free and threatening other members of the Reyes 
family.

For the past two years, Reyes Alvarez’s requests for stays 
of removal had been granted, extending his legal ability to 
remain in the country. Each request involved demonstrat-
ing that he had no criminal record, was employed, and paid 
taxes. But on June 27, 2017, for the first time, his request 
was denied. His situation is characteristic of a new trend 
in immigration court proceedings that began soon after the 
inauguration of President Donald Trump.
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) is 
“now targeting people with old removal orders, not people 
with criminal records,” O’Neil-Baker said. “They’re seen as 
low-hanging fruit.”

In Meriden, Reyes Alvarez’s family cried and prayed as 
they packed his bags. Late in the evening, friends and mem-
bers of Unidad Latina en Acción (ULA), a New Haven-based 
immigrants’ rights group, arrived and they all gathered in 
the dining room, Torres Reyes remembered. They reminded 
Reyes Alvarez that there was a last option: he could take 
sanctuary in a local church. 

If he did, he would join a growing number of undocu-
mented immigrants across the country who have sought ref-
uge from deportation in places of worship, continuing to 
fight their cases from spare rooms and basements. 
Since 2011, Immigrations and Customs Enforcement has 
recognized schools, hospitals, and places of worship as “sen-
sitive locations”—only in exceptional circumstances, such 
as public security threats, would ICE agents enter the prem-
ises to question or detain a suspect. The Obama-era policy 
was adopted to ensure that agents “exercise sound judge-
ment when enforcing federal law” and “avoid unnecessarily 
alarming local communities,” according to ICE. 
In 2015 and 2016 combined, there were eight public cases 
of undocumented immigrants taking sanctuary from depor-
tation in places of worship. Since January of this year, there 
have been thirty.

In late July, Nury Chavarria, a mother of four from Nor-
walk, won an emergency stay of removal less than a week 
after taking sanctuary in a Fair Haven church. Her case was 
far from resolved, but it offered a sense of hope to undocu-
mented immigrants in Connecticut facing their own depor-
tation dates.

Still, if Reyes Alvarez took sanctuary, there would be no 
guarantee of a legal victory. He might have to live for weeks, 
months or years in a single space, awaiting a final immi-
gration decision. But late that night, he decided that it was 
a risk worth taking. “Seeing his kids crying—and also me, 
because I couldn’t stop crying—we decided, last minute, 
that he would take the last resort,” Torres Reyes said.

By 11 p.m. that night, Jesus Morales Sanchez, an orga-
nizer for ULA, had spent the last two hours in New 
Haven writing a press release for Reyes Alvarez’ 
departure. Suddenly, John Jairo Lugo, the head of ULA, 
who had been at Reyes Alvarez’s home that night, called 
him with the news that Reyes Alvarez had decided to stay. 
There was no sanctuary waiting to take him in, so a 
network of communication sprang into action. Jairo Lugo 
called Paul Fleck, the pastor of the Hamden Plains United 
Methodist Church and an organizer of the Sanctuary Move-
ment in the New Haven area. Fleck has spent the past year 
helping a handful of religious communities prepare to 
host someone seeking refuge from deportation. But he had 
already gone to sleep by the time Reyes Alvarez made his 
decision, so didn’t see Jairo Lugo’s message until he woke 
up unexpectedly at 2 a.m.

Thirty-five miles away, in Wethersfield, a suburb of Hart-
ford, Juhye Hahn had just crept into bed after a long night 
of work when her phone pinged from another room.
“When you hear that message sound that early in the 
morning, you have to check if something is wrong,” Hahn 
said. “The message came from Paul: someone needed sanc-
tuary. So I said, ‘I’ll be there.’”

Hahn had only been the pastor of the First and Summer-
field United Methodist Church in New Haven for a month. 
The towering red-brick church on the corner of Elm and 
College Streets has a history of social justice, but this past 
year, its activist mission took on a new sense of urgency.

In February, then-pastor Thomas Kim delivered a ser-
mon rebuking President Trump’s executive order banning 
travel from seven majority-Muslim countries. He encour-
aged his congregation to put their progressive principles 
into practice. “I strongly felt that I was called to preach that 
becoming a sanctuary church is one of the ways that we can 
be [the] salt and light of the world,” he wrote in an email, 
referring to a passage from the Gospel of Matthew. “And 
the members of FSUMC agreed with me.” That spring, 
“ICE is now targeting 
people with old removal 
orders, not people with 
criminal records. They're 
seen as low-hanging fruit.”



**Title: Sanctuary in Hamden**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 31
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
the members of the church council voted unanimously to 
become a sanctuary church, one of the first in Connecticut. 

In the past year, the Sanctuary Movement has taken on 
a new sense of urgency as the Trump Administration cracks 
down on undocumented immigrants, said Rev. Noel Ander-
sen, the national grassroots coordinator of the Church World 
Service (CWS), a humanitarian aid organization. Although 
the tradition of taking sanctuary has ancient origins, the 
practice became a full-fledged movement in the United 
States in the 1980s, when churches began providing shelter 
for those fleeing violence in Central America, whom the 
U.S. did not recognize as asylum-seekers. CWS has become 
the “connective tissue” of the Sanctuary Movement, Ander-
sen said, coordinating networks of faith communities across 
the country. Although sanctuary churches tend to be “pro-
gressive-leaning,” he said, they cut across a broad spectrum 
of denominations.

For Hahn, agreeing to host Reyes Alvarez was a natu-
ral extension of her religious conviction. “When Jesus fed 
the hungry, I don’t think Jesus asked, ‘Do you have proper 
I.D.?’” she said. “Jesus just fed people, because he saw the 
need. For me, it’s the same thing.”

Although many of the churches in the New York Confer-
ence of the United Methodist Church—450 congregations 
scattered across Long Island, New York City, and half of 
Connecticut—have become sanctuaries in the past year, 
First and Summerfield is the first to actually host someone. 
As of November, two other churches in the New Haven area 
had taken in sanctuary seekers: Iglesia De Dios Pentecostal 
in Fair Haven, which hosted Chavarria, and the Unitarian 
Universalist Church in Meriden, which is still hosting six-
ty-eight-year-old Sujitno Sajuti, who faces deportation to 
Indonesia.

There are logistical concerns involved in becoming a 
long-term sanctuary, Fleck says: the building needs to have 
a kitchen, shower, and makeshift bedroom. But more impor-
tantly, a congregation must take the “considerable leap of 
faith” involved in hosting someone, essentially committing 
to a massive, protracted advocacy effort and the politiciza-
tion of its spiritual mission.

After she replied to Fleck’s text, Hahn went back to bed, 
but couldn’t fall asleep. Eventually, she got up, showered, 
and began driving toward New Haven in the pale early 
morning light. She didn’t know anything about Reyes Alva-
rez, but was heartbroken for him and prepared to give him 
the protection he needed.

In their homes in Hamden, Wanda Harris and Adeline 
Tucker, longtime parishioners of First and Summerfield 
and members of the church’s social concerns committee, 
had also received early morning messages from Fleck. They 
arrived at the church at 6 a.m., joining a small group includ-
ing Hahn and Fleck waiting for Reyes Alvarez to arrive. All 
at once, he and his wife entered through the church’s side 
door on College Street.

“It was intense, it was hurried and rushed,” Fleck said. 
“We situated him and let him know where everything was.”

Harris and Tucker showed Reyes Alvarez around the laby-
rinthine building. In the basement was the dining hall with 
its bright, white-tiled floor and windows just below street 
level. On the second floor were the offices of the three Yale 
unions, Locals 33, 34, and 35. On the first floor was the main 
sanctuary, a large, square room with a gleaming, circular 
hardwood floor at its center; a soaring, dark-paneled altar-
piece; and tall, green stained-glass panels running along two 
opposing walls.

Just past Hahn’s office, at the end of a dim, blue-walled 
corridor, was the maroon-carpeted meeting room that 
would be now be Reyes Alvarez’s bedroom. It was still clut-
tered with church furniture, which they began to remove 
and rearrange. There was no bed yet; Fleck would bring 
one that afternoon. As Reyes Alvarez began to get settled, 
his immediate family arrived, followed by the thirty relatives 
who had come to see him off the night before.

“It was really hard to see the family,” Hahn said. “I could 
tell they cried all night, because their eyes were red. They 
were shaken, not knowing what would happen.”


“When Jesus fed the 
hungry, I don't think 
Jesus asked, 'Do you 
have proper I.D.?'” 
Marco Reyes Alvarez’s room 
in the church. From left to 
right, Anthony Reyes, ULA 
organizer 
Jesus 
Morales 
Sanchez, Jason Ramos (son 
of Giaconda and Franklin 
Ramos), Marco Reyes Alvarez.



--- Page 32 ---

 32
By 11 a.m., however, Reyes Alvarez was standing resolute 
behind the iron fence at the top of the stairs to the church’s 
main entrance, flanked by his family, Senator Richard Blu-
menthal, Mayor Toni Harp, church leaders, and ULA orga-
nizers, as he addressed a crowd of supporters.

“We came to this country with a lot of dreams and it is 
very difficult to be going through what we are going through 
now,” Reyes Alvarez said, as his son-in-law Brian Martinez 
translated. “Here I am, here is my family, here is my com-
munity, and here are all of us who want to live in a better 
world.”


Fanny Torres Reyes enters her husband’s room and sits 
down at the wooden table next to him. It’s a Monday 
afternoon and Reyes Alvarez has been living at First 
and Summerfield for the past seven weeks. Even in the soft 
light from the chandelier overhead, the strain of their ordeal 
shows in their faces.

With Reyes Alvarez in sanctuary and unable to work, the 
family has been working hard to make ends meet. Torres 
Reyes started housecleaning. Their son Anthony works long 
days in construction in a nearby town. Their oldest daughter 
Evelyn, who is studying dental hygiene at Gateway Com-
munity College in New Haven, works at a deli, and she and 
her husband have moved back in with Torres Reyes. When 
Reyes Alvarez entered First and Summerfield, the family 
set up an online donation page that, by October, had raised 
about $3,000 of their $10,000 goal.

The room’s only windows overlook the light brick wall 
of a Yale School of Music building; there’s rarely any direct 
sunlight. But Reyes Alvarez and his family have made an 
effort to make the room feel cozy. There’s a colorful throw 
folded neatly on a brown couch on one side of the room; 
cards and flowers line the windowsill. A single bed nestled 
into a corner of the room almost looks like it was meant to 
be there. Reyes Alvarez’s heavy-duty toolboxes are stacked 
one on top of the other, next to his Shop-Vac, at the end 
of his bed. Along one wall, there’s a bookshelf lined with 
identical copies of prayer books, a ceramic water jug and a 
large stack of packaged food.

Reyes Alvarez peels open a package of pecan Sandies and 
offers one to his wife.

“It was a busy day today,” Torres Reyes says with a weary 
smile, her dark hair pulled back from her face in a high bun.

That morning, she had brought their twelve-year-old 
daughter Adriana to join a protest of nearly two hundred 
people at the federal immigration court in Hartford against 
the imminent deportation of Franklin and Gioconda 
Ramos. Like Torres Reyes and Reyes Alvarez, the Ramos 
couple is from Ecuador and live in Meriden. Thirty-six pro-
testers, including Fleck, the pastor of the Hamden Plains 
UMC, sat in a line in front of the court doors, barring entry; 
they were charged with disorderly conduct and trespassing.

Usually Adriana comes with her mother to First and 
Summerfield, but today, tired from the early protest and 
afterschool soccer, her mother left her home to rest. Hours 
later, the memory of that morning’s protest, and the Ramos 
family, seemed to weigh heavily on Torres Reyes.

“We’re from the same country,” she said in a wavering 
voice, looking down at her hands folded in her lap. “So it’s 
very hard.”

Reyes Alvarez’s day starts and ends with a small task: 
switching out the rechargeable battery of his GPS tracker, 
which ICE officials clamped onto his right ankle in July. 
It’s a black plastic bracelet that sends data about his loca-
tion to a private company in Hartford subcontracted by ICE 
to monitor undocumented immigrants with deportation 
orders. He has to change the battery every eight hours. If 
he were to step outside the church, ICE would know imme-
diately.

“He feels like a slave,” Torres Reyes said. “It’s very uncom-
fortable. I think he got used to it in some way—resignation 
that he has to wear it for a while. At the beginning, he was 
very upset that he had to wear it.”

“I'm most scared because I 
don't have any answer for 
my kids if I have to go back to 
my country. I don't want to
separate my family.”

Three months into 
his stay at First and 
Summerfield UMC, 
for Reyes Alvarez, 
life is uneasy and 
claustrophobic.


--- Page 33 ---

 33
Reyes Alvarez has about eight visitors every day, he says. 
ULA organizer Jesus Morales Sanchez is usually with him 
every weekday, relatives visit on the weekends. His youngest 
daughter Adriana comes most days after school. Evelyn vis-
its after classes at Gateway, Anthony on the weekends when 
he’s off work. Some visitors are ULA members who have 
made it a habit to drop by to see him. Others are complete 
strangers who have heard about his case and want to offer 
their support. To each of them, Reyes Alvarez offers a seat 
on the couch or around the small wooden table at the cen-
ter of his room.

Within the church building, Reyes Alvarez can use most 
rooms when he wants to, but he usually goes back and 
forth between his room and the downstairs dining hall. In 
the bathroom down the hall from his room, he installed a 
shower himself, equipped with a stainless-steel handle. His 
only opportunity for a breath of fresh air is the church’s 
handicap-accessible entrance, a small garden patio enclosed 
by a metal fence. He usually just stays inside, although one 
of their friends always encourages him to go feel the sun-
light. “I try,” Reyes Alvarez says wearily.

Torres Reyes brings her husband food from home or 
cooks in the basement kitchen. Sometimes Reyes Alvarez 
cooks, too. His specialty? White rice.

“It never comes out as good when I make it. He puts 
something special in it,” Torres Reyes says, laughing.

“It’s a secret!” Reyes Alvarez responds with a chuckle.

If no one is visiting, he cooks in the kitchen downstairs, 
does push-ups, or listens to Bob Marley. In his room, there’s 
an old television set and a stack of dramas on VCR, although 
if Reyes Alvarez ever watches something, it’s usually Netflix 
Christian movies on a desktop in the corner of the room.

Back in Ecuador, he played on a travel soccer team and 
follows his favorite team, Barcelona, with intensity. But he’s 
missing out on the games that matter the most: Adriana’s. 
“It’s hard because I like soccer, I want to see my daughter…
oh my God,” he says, his voice breaking.

Reyes Alvarez met Torres Reyes when he was sixteen years 
old; they both grew up in Mera, a small town in central 
Ecuador, in the foothills of the Andes. In 1997, when their 
oldest children were toddlers, Reyes Alvarez paid smugglers 
known as coyotajes seven thousand dollars to make the two-
week journey to the United States border. He and forty oth-
ers were driven from Ecuador to Mexico, then walked to 
Texas. A bus and a train later, he was arrived in New Haven, 
where Torres Reyes’ brother had already settled. In 2000, 
after he became established in the area, his wife joined him. 
A year later, they had enough money to rent a bigger apart-
ment in Wallingford, and their children came too. Five 
years later, they moved to Meriden, and other relatives soon 
followed suit, settling in the area.

In 2007, on a family trip to Michigan, the family’s GPS 
took them off course and they accidentally drove across the 
border into Canada. Reyes Alvarez was detained for a week-
end until his family posted bail. The incident identified him 
to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, which lead 
to him being placed in removal proceedings, his attorney 
O’Neil-Baker said. Two years later, he received a removal 
order. Over the following years, repeated attempts to reopen 
his case were denied.

Torres Reyes tries to come to First and Summerfield every 
day and often stays the night so that her husband won’t be 
alone. When she’s not there, he sometimes can’t sleep or 
won’t eat, she says. Although he has adopted a daily rhythm, 
there is no getting used to life in purgatory. 

“I’m most scared because I don’t have any answer for my 
kids if I have to go back to my country,” he said. “I don’t 
want to separate my family.”

Reyes Alvarez's day starts 
and ends with a small task: 
switching out the 
rechargeable battery of his 
GPS tracker.

Although he has adopted 
a daily rhythm, there is no 
getting used to
life in purgatory.

Reyes Alvarez lives in a 
repurposed meeting room 
in the back of First and 
Summerfield UMC.



**Title: The Door**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 34**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 34
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
T
he door through which Reyes Alvarez fled deporta-
tion now marks the limit of his world. The entrance 
to 425 College Street, the side door of First and Sum-
merfield, is made of dull metal, with a scratched, square 
window at eye level. Between eight in the morning and 
five in the evening, it’s unlocked, constantly opening and 
closing with the flow of people through the building. After 
hours, visitors must press a buzzer to be let in. For the past 
three months, this door has been the only thing between 
Reyes Alvarez’s current safety and the certain deportation 
that lurks beyond. On the inside, he’s protected through 
ICE’s “sensitive locations” policy; on the outside, he’s vul-
nerable to immediate arrest.

Though ICE has kept its word on sensitive locations, 
immigration activists worry that the policy isn’t permanent. 
“[ICE] says it won’t do anything in those buildings, but that 
can change from one day to another,” said John Jairo Lugo. 
“Maybe one day we’ll wake up with a new memo from the 
government, and that would be a nightmare for undocu-
mented immigrants.”

This past spring, Paul Fleck said, a group of religious 
leaders from the New Haven area met with Deirdre Daly, 
the U.S. Attorney for the District of Connecticut, and an 
ICE community relations officer, who affirmed that agents 
would not enter sanctuary spaces unless in the case of a 
public threat. Even so, he said, “my trust for ICE is rather 
limited.”

“It’s just striking the American public now what an arbi-
trary, worse than Kafka-esque, rogue agency, in many senses 
[ICE] is,” said Ramon Garibaldo Valdez, a member of ULA 
and second-year student in Yale’s political science PhD pro-
gram. “We’re just going off this intuition [that] they have 
usually been somewhat respectful of churches, but that 
precedent does not stand on very strong ground.”

New Haven is a sanctuary city, which means that its 
police officers cannot provide assistance to ICE in the case 
of a federal immigration action or inquire about someone’s 
immigration status. But the sanctuary city status is less 
secure than many realize; it’s a federal designation that has 
no substantial legal backing.

“We’re blind to status,” Mayor Toni Harp told me one 
morning at City Hall. Since the early 2000s, the New Haven 
Police Department has had a general order stating that offi-
cers do not ask people for their immigration status. Public 
school officials are not supposed to inquire about a student’s 
status either, and city services are based on residency, not 
place of origin, she said.

Yet there has been no real push from the New Haven 
Board of Alders to formally undergird the city’s sanctuary 
status, Harp added. The Trump administration’s threat to 
pull federal funding from sanctuary cities doesn’t weaken 
the city’s commitment to protecting undocumented immi-
grants, she said, but city leaders don’t want to put a bullseye 
on New Haven. So, they have adopted more modest mea-
sures, like distributing five-thousand copies of a pocket-sized 
“Family Emergency Preparedness Guide” to schools, hospi-
tals, and libraries, to inform undocumented immigrants of 
their rights in case ICE agents show up at their door.

A decade ago, New Haven experienced federal backlash 
after instituting measures to support its undocumented resi-
dents. In 2006, the city released its Elm City Resident card, 
a first-of-its-kind municipal identification card for undoc-
umented immigrants. A year later, ICE agents conducted 
a massive raid across New Haven, deporting over thirty 
people at once. In the carefully-selected words of City Hall 
spokesman Laurence Grotheer, the federal government 
“took exception” to the city’s new ID program. In the words 
of Jairo Lugo, the raid was a flat-out “retaliation.”

“Just today, I heard they’re going to start doing raids in 
California because the government there wants to keep the 
state a sanctuary,” he said on the phone one afternoon in 
October. He fears that something similar may soon happen 
in New Haven. “We don’t know when, but we’re getting 
ready for it.”

Even in his secluded room in First and Summerfield, the 
ever-present threat of an ICE raid hangs over Reyes Alva-
rez and his family. After all, the side door is almost always 
unlocked.   
“We pray a lot to be safe,” said Torres Reyes. “That’s why 
An anti-deportation ban-
ner on the steps of First 
and Summerfield UMC.


**Title: Sanctuary**
**Page number(s): 35**

 35
NOVEMBER 2017
most of the time, someone is here with me, either me or 
Jesus [Morales Sanchez] or John Jairo [Lugo]…because if 
something happens, they can be witnesses of what’s going 
on.”

O
ver the past three months, the front steps of First 
and Summerfield have become a gathering place 
for political action in New Haven. Reyes Alvarez’s 
supporters flocked to the nine brown stone steps when he 
first entered the church, and later, when the Trump Admin-
istration announced its decision to rescind DACA. It is here 
that city and state officials have pledged their support for 
Reyes Alvarez and his family.

But it hasn’t always been the case that high-profile legis-
lators, or even the mayor, have showed up to support cases 
like these. “Back in the day, we had to beg them to support 
us, but they’ve become more willing to work with the immi-
grant community,” Jairo Lugo said. “At the same time, it’s 
good for the case when they are in solidarity with Marco.”

On the day of Reyes Alvarez’s arrival at First and Sum-
merfield, Senator Blumenthal stood behind the iron fence 
where a neon green sign read “IMMIGRANTS MAKE 
AMERICA” and called for a new hearing in Reyes Alvarez’s 
case. “Our country is better than the policies that have been 
adopted in the last seven months and focus on people who 
have lived here for decades, worked hard, paid taxes, raised 
families,” Blumenthal said over the noise of buses rumbling 
down Elm Street. “Our country is better than policies that 
tear apart families.”

Connecticut politicians like Blumenthal and U.S. Repre-
sentative Rosa DeLauro say that the ICE policies that have 
singled out undocumented immigrants like Ryes Alvarez 
betray the unusual malice of the Trump administration.

“One policy the president spoke about was that the 
deportations would target dangerous felons, not upstanding 
members of our community like Mr. Reyes,” said DeLauro, 
who has also attended rallies for Reyes Alvarez, told me in 
October. “The administration has lied about what they said 
they were doing. It’s a cruel reversal of policy.”

DeLauro sees Reyes Alvarez’s case in the context of the 
long haul: comprehensive immigration reform. “If we win 
back the House of Representatives, we can change a num-
ber of these policies that have been willy-nilly reversed,” she 
said. 

The 2018 election, however, is a long time for Reyes Alva-
rez to wait. For him, life continues, day-by-day, in his small 
room in a corner of First and Summerfield, far from the 
noise of the church’s front steps. By nature a quiet man, over 
the past few months, Reyes Alvarez has become a spokes-
man for the predicament that he, and many other undocu-
mented immigrants, now find themselves in. It’s a role he 
doesn’t seem entirely comfortable with, but has come to 
accept.

“All of us are afraid—but not all of us can do what I am 
doing either,” he says in Spanish one afternoon in October. 
“Everyone always waits for another to sacrifice themselves, 
so I guess, recently, it’s my turn. But it’s not that anyone 
would want to be here and call attention to themselves to 
say something. I just did it to stay with my family and my 
wife.”

Ramon Garibaldo Valdez says that people tend to under-
estimate the force of Reyes Alvarez’s will. He’s isn’t a victim, 
Garibaldo Valdez says, but has fully accepted responsibility 
for his decision to take sanctuary. He speaks at rallies that 
aren’t even about his case, supporting ULA members in any 
way he can. “I don’t think the first thing that comes to his 
mind is ‘I’ve been in this country for twenty years.’ I think 
it’s the idea that ‘I have to be here for another twenty years 
for my children, especially my youngest, Adriana.’”

“If people want to get a sense of urgency for immigration, 
they shouldn’t look at large picture data on immigration, 
they should just see this one case,” Garibaldo Valdez added. 
“The possibility of Adriana staying without a father…that’s 
what people need to center.”

Although Torres Reyes and the children can return home 
at night, the anxiety and gravity of Reyes Alvarez’s predica-


**Title: ULA Meeting**
**Page number(s): 36**

ment has upended their lives, too. The result of the motion 
to reopen his case could come tomorrow, or next month, 
or next year. For all of them, as the weeks pass, First and 
Summerfield feels less like a refuge and more like a prison.

n a Monday night in October, the sanctuary of First 
and Summerfield is full of voices, as dozens of peo-
ple take seats in a circle of chairs. John Jairo Lugo, 
wearing an imitation bird foot around his neck, balances a 
laptop on his knees and calls the weekly ULA meeting to 
order.

It’s Columbus Day—Indigenous Peoples’ Day—and Jairo 
Lugo is wearing a black shirt with an image of Native Amer-
icans and “Homeland Security Fighting Terrorism Since 
1492” written in white block print. Fluorescent light from 
the streetlamps filters through the church’s stained-glass 
windows. The doors next to the altar are open, and across 
the hall, a square of light glows in the window of the door 
to Reyes Alvarez’s room. His wife emerges with a few other 
relatives and takes a seat.

Jairo Lugo asks if there are any cases people want to dis-
cuss. There’s a family across the circle from Torres Reyes, a 
father and mother with a small boy leaning against their legs. 
The man stands, his hair slicked back, hands shoved into his 
pockets. He has a deportation order for early November, he 
says. A few seats down from Torres Reyes, a woman who has 
been fighting a deportation order says that she must present 
herself for supervision in the next few weeks.

In the New Haven area, there are two or three new cases 
like Reyes Alvarez’s every week, Jairo Lugo later tells me 
over the phone from outside the federal immigration court-
house in Hartford: “We walked out from the courthouse and 
just picked a new case.” The frequency of these cases has 
rapidly increased since the election, and in his mind, it’s 
only going to worsen.  

“There’s a huge increase of people who are doing what 
they need to do—showing up to check in—who are then 
notified that they have to leave the country, their stays are 
denied, and they are placed on a GPS unit,” Reyes Alvarez’s 
attorney O’Neil-Baker said.

Since ICE agents sometimes show up at court when 
undocumented immigrants attempt to appear for their court 
dates, ULA organizes groups that can accompany them, a 
show of emotional but also physical support.

“We believe that ICE is much more likely to not detain 
someone if they see people around them, and even if they 
were to do that, it helps us because we know it happened, 
we have witnesses, people recording badge numbers,” says 
Morales Sanchez.

Reyes Alvarez’s case now hinges upon a decision from 
the Board of Immigration Appeals that could come any day, 
or not for a long time. There is little organizing that could 
swing the balance in his favor. But for other cases, like that 
of Franklin and Gioconda Ramos, acts of civil disobedience 
can make a difference, Morales Sanchez says.

“We’re going to do anything that is in our power. We’re 
going to interrupt your operations. We’re going to make 
noise outside your offices, or in the case a few weeks ago, 
we’re going to sit down and not let anyone into your build-
ing,” he adds, referring to ICE. “We’re going to disrupt your 
day and hopefully, that disruption will add enough pressure 
to have them change their minds.”

At the end of the ULA meeting, Torres Reyes chats with 
some of the other members and helps dismantle the circle, 
stacking chair after chair in the corner. Then she slips away 
across the hall, into the room where her husband’s light is 
still on.


**Title: Sunday Service**

A
t 10 a.m. on a Sunday morning in October, the bell 
tower of First and Summerfield begins to chime and 
Reyes Alvarez and his wife walk into the light-filled 
sanctuary.

“Hi, Fanny, how are you doing?” says one of the elderly 
greeters at the threshold. 
“I’m O.K.,” she responds with a quiet smile.

“It’s hard, it’s hard,” the woman says, embracing her.

Reyes Alvarez goes over to a small display at the entrance 
to the church and picks out his plastic nametag, like the 
other parishioners. As others trickle in, he and his wife take 
their seats facing the altar, near the front.

Despite the overcast sky and drizzle outside, the tall 
green and yellow stained-glass windows on either side of the 
room shimmer with light. About twenty people have come 
to the service this morning, and though there are many 
empty seats, the room echoes with the voices of children.

Pastor Juhye Hahn, dressed in white and green vestments, 
stands behind a lectern, her voice ringing out high and clear 
as she calls the congregation to worship. The lectern’s dark 
wood perfectly matches the soaring altarpiece behind her. 
Its elegant, rectangular base supports a thin wooden cross 
and is topped with an angled square that holds her Bible. It 
is positioned a few feet in front of the altar; Hahn is close 
enough to hold the gaze of individual parishioners. Reyes 
Alvarez built the lectern over a few days in the church’s 
sub-basement. It is his gift to the congregation.

When Hahn became First and Summerfield’s pastor this 



**Title: A Lectern of Hope**
**Author: Eliza Fawcett**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
July, she didn’t want to stand behind the altar because she 
felt disconnected from her parishioners. For a few weeks, 
she used a black metal music stand, since the church didn’t 
have the funds to buy a portable lectern. Reyes Alvarez has 
already spent many hours working on projects around the 
church—fixing shelves in the kitchen, repainting the wain-
scoting in the dining hall—and when he heard that Hahn 
was looking for a new lectern, he offered to help.


The hardest part of building the lectern was getting the 
materials, Torres Reyes said. She had to track down all her 
husband’s tools in their home and her brother’s backyard 
shed. Then there was the two-hour trip to Home Depot, 
video-calling him in the middle of the aisle to show him all 
the possible wood grains and stains.


“He was the one who always [went] to that place, so I 
would show him, ‘This one or this one?’” Torres Reyes said, 
laughing. “And he would say, ‘Yes, this one,’ ‘No, no, no, 
bring that one!’”


Eventually they settled on oak, because Reyes Alvarez 
wanted to build something that would last. Torres Reyes had 
the wood cut and brought it back to the church. Reyes Alva-
“At the beginning, we 
thought we were doing 
something for him.  But 
actually, he is the 
blessing for us.”
rez set up carpentry horses in the basement, brought down 
his tools and an air compressor, and got to work. It took 
only two days, he said, but he had to wait another week for 
the wood stain to dry because the basement was so humid. 
On a Sunday in October, they presented the lectern to the 
congregation.


“It’s not just a lectern,” Hahn said. “I mean, I’m happy to 
have that lectern, but for me personally, it’s a witness. God 
answered the prayer that I had in a mysterious way.” She 
pauses to reflect. “At the beginning, we thought we were 
doing something for him.  But actually, he is the blessing 
for us.”


For the foreseeable future, Reyes Alvarez will continue 
living in First and Summerfield, waiting to hear if his peti-
tion for asylum is granted and greeting the visitors who stop 
by every now and then. When the side door opens, snatches 
of sound from the city street drift down the hall to his room. 
From time to time, he’ll step onto the patio for a little air, 
though it’s getting cold now. On Sundays, he’ll attend the 
church service and the coffee hour afterwards. And when 
he can, he will retreat to the basement to work on his next 
project, a wooden baptismal font in which to display the 
church’s bare silver bowl. It will be modest but solid, he 
says. A simple thing of beauty, built with the hope that it 
will remain in the sanctuary far longer than its creator.


Eddie Joe Antonio Pérez provided Spanish translations.
—  Eliza Fawcett is a junior in 
Jonathan Edwards College. 
She is an editor-in-chief of 
The New Journal. 


**Title: Traces of Spice**
**Author: Ananya Kumar-Banerjee**
**Page number(s): 38-39**

A 
few days into my first year at Yale,   I was talking 
to my father on the phone. As any good Asian 
parent is wont to do, he asked me about the food.
“Is it good?” he said. “Are you eating properly?”


There was a pause on my end. My first response was 
to say yes, of course I was. I was doing fine. I had begun 
to develop that tone of disdain that first-years adopt 
when talking to their parents. I was a college student 
now; didn’t my dad understand that I was busy? But I 
caught myself. I listened carefully to the sweetness of 
his voice, the melancholy uptick at the end of each of 
his questions. I realized that my father missed me. So 
I drew my breath and told the truth: “It’s okay. Some-
thing’s missing though.”


“Maybe it’s the spice?”


He was right—it was the lack of seasoning that I 
missed, the salt and cumin and peppers that flavored 
my memories of home. I didn’t want to cry, so I hung 
up with a soft spoken I love you and Yelped “Asian 
Market.” Hong Kong Market was less than five minutes 
from my residential college. 


I walked up Whitney Avenue in the dim evening 
light. The grocery store’s windows were packed with 
posters of xiao long bao (soup dumplings) and bags of 
jasmine rice. A familiar language drifted through the 
open door: Mandarin. It was a language I learned at a 
young age through my bilingual school in New York, 
but hadn’t heard that much since. 


When I entered and asked the cashier for chili pep-
pers, she gestured to the stairs a few feet away and asked 
me to follow. We went down to the basement and past a 
tall shelf with peeling white paint full of dried ginseng. 
It smelled like Flushing, Queens, the air thick with the 
aroma of soy sauce and natural decay. She led me to 
a supermarket fridge and pointed to the small plastic 
bags of red and green peppers. At home, we only had 
the bright, kelly-green kind. But the shape was right. 
I leaned in and realized the smell was right too. They 
were in that exact plastic bagging that I had only ever 
seen in Indian markets and inside my refrigerator. 
They were the quick fix I was looking for, the garnish 
that could make any meal taste a bit more like home.


As the subtle, crisp smell of spice crept into my nose, 
I remembered the warning my mother gave me when 
I left for college. She said I would miss the food, but I 
hadn’t listened. I thought I knew better. I thought I’d 
miss other things—the smell of my cat, the subway, the 
early-morning sing-song of ambulances. I had been to 
sleep-away camp before, deprived of my home food for 
weeks on end, and it hadn’t bothered me. Why would 
college be any different?


At first, the dining hall seemed to offer all the food 
that I could possibly want. But after a few days, I found 
her warning came true. I missed the spice, the aro-
Ananya Kumar-Banerjee 
illustration Hazal Özgür


mas wafting from my kitchen as my mother made fish 
curry, the crackle of turmeric karela hitting the pan.


Snapping out of my reverie, I was still clutching the 
plastic bag of chili peppers under the blue-green fluo-
rescent lights of the Hong Kong Market. When I went 
back upstairs to check out, the cashier mentioned that 
the shipment of chili peppers had just come in. 
“You’re very lucky,” she said. “A lot of students come 
in looking for that.”


Her response surprised me. Maybe I wasn’t the only 
person struggling to find home in Yale Dining food. I 
hadn’t even considered the possibility that other stu-
dents could be having the same experience; everyone 
always seemed happy enough to chow down on the 
same unsalted mashed potatoes and chickpea salad. 
When I brought my chili peppers to the Berkeley 
dining hall that evening,  I plopped the plastic bag on 
the table,  took out three peppers, and placed them on 
my plate. My best friend Irene chuckled. Clearly, I was 
desperate.  But when other first-years at the table saw 
my peppers, they began listing the things they missed 
the most: a mother’s congee, a barbecued bit of pork, 
a salty soup, a certain sauce. All of our memories from 
home came down to our dinner plates.


The few Indian restaurants in New Haven don’t 
make food exactly like my parents do, but I’ll take it. 
Sometimes there isn’t enough ginger or methi. Some-
times there’s too much salt. I tried to be okay with the 
sambar from Thali Too, though it wasn’t the same as 
what my father makes in the pressure cooker when I’m 
sick. This is my new home, I keep telling myself. I have 
to be okay with the food being different because every-
thing is different. 


But even as I attempted to recreate the pang of lamb 
biryani or rogan josh with my peppers, homemade food 
is as much about the culture the cuisine comes from 
as it is about the people who make it. I’d be lying if I 
said I didn’t miss my parents.  My roommate tells me 
one night that she misses the feeling of saying hi to 
everyone in her Greek village with the knowledge that 
“everyone knows everyone.” But she claims she doesn’t 
think much about the food. She’s too preoccupied with 
meeting new people, reveling in her new life here. She 
could go years without eating Greek food, she tells me. 
She’s sure that this is her home now. She’s perfectly sat-
isfied with her meals at Timothy Dwight. But she also 
tells me proudly that she refuses to eat Greek food that 
isn’t from Greece or her parents’ kitchen.


“But,” I ask, “didn’t you go to a Greek restaurant last 
week?” 
“Yes,” she says. “But it wasn’t the same.”


“I know.”   
— Ananya Kumar-Banerjee is a first-year in
Timothy Dwight College.



**Title: Don’t Miss a Single Event!**
**Author: Poynter**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Don’t Miss a Single Event!
Sign up now for the Poynter newsletter:
poynter.yale.edu
