Publication date: 11/03
Volume 36, Issue 2

**Title: The Ward One Race**
**Author: Charlotte Howard**
**Page number(s): 17-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
UST AFTER EIGHT PM on November 4, a group of students packed into a back room of Yale's Dwight Hall to hear the outcome of the Ward One aldermanic race. Some students had worked on a campaign, some were political activists, some were reporters, and a precious few were there just because. They stood in hushed reverence as a middle-aged man disappeared behind the booths. In the tense silence his disembodied voice read out the tallies. 

On that Tuesday in November, voters in Ward One elected incumbent Ben Healey to represent them on the New Haven Board of Aldermen. But this race didn't merely secure Healey's position on the board, it exalted the Ward One seat itself. Though Healey defeated his opponent Dan Kruger by a three to one margin, this election remained the ward's most contested battle in over fifteen years. The two candidates raised approximately eight times the funding of the 2001 Ward One aldermanic candidates. All kinds of New Haveners - local politicians, labor organizers, Yale students, faculty and administrators - took sides and backed their chosen candidate. Calhoun College Master William Sledge not only contributed to Kruger's campaign financially, but tried to rally support by singing Kruger's praises in the Yale Daily News, endorsing him on campaign flyers that saturated almost every bathroom in his college, and even hosting a reception for him. Mayor John D. DeStefano, Jr. helped Healey reach constituents in a still more vocal way, belting out his support from the steps of Dwight Hall. Devotees on both sides barked at each other in organized public debates, on the radio, and across the op-ed pages of the campus papers. Websites were created, banners hung, "Vote Ben" shirts donned, "Dan for Alderman" pens distributed, and posters, stickers, and buttons were stuck to every available surface. In an historically inactive ward, constituents were finally invested in the outcome of this race. All of a sudden, the Ward One seat seemed to matter.


THE ALDERMAN FROM WARD ONE has always played a unique role in articulating town-gown relations. Bounded by Temple, Park, Wall, and Crown Streets, Ward One contains eight residential colleges, which means 85 percent of its constituents are students. Elected by undergraduates to represent student interests in City Hall, the alderman is the most visible connection between Yale College and New Haven. Any ward's alderman can shape city politics by backing new legislation and serving on town committees, but the layout of the first district gives its alderman a unique position on the board. Michael Morand (SY'87, DN'93) a two-term Ward One Alderman, knows this position well. Elected in 1989 and 1991, Morand remains entrenched in New Haven politics as Associate Vice President of the Yale Office of New Haven and State Affairs. "The first ward alderperson," he said recently, "tends not to have as many constituent service issues, potholes, streetlights, sidewalks, as other alderpeople have, so the first ward alderperson has more time to work on other issues; what those issues are generally reflect the particular times and personalities involved."


The particular time and personalities of the Healey-Kruger race defined the nature of the Ward One position more concretely than has any race since students first vied for the seat. With the administration's ink on contracts for Locals 34 and 35 barely dry, and students' memories of crossing or joining picket lines still fresh, questions about Yale-New Haven relations echoed in the campus's gothic arches. This resonance coincided with an aldermanic race that focused on ideological differences. In past aldermanic races, Democratic candidates could rely on Yale's liberal tilt to slide their Republican opponents off the boards. This race was unique because Kruger ran as an independent and made it clear from the beginning that he largely shared Healey's democratic objectives. "I agree with the basic agenda," he explained during the campaign, "It's the way that we should go about doing it that should give us some pause for thought." Kruger criticized Healey for promoting an "adversarial" relationship with the University and representing "special interests" - namely those of the unions, rather than what he perceived to be student interests. Whether students chose Healey or Kruger, therefore, would be a testament to the way they defined their own involvement in the city, and the means by which they sought to change it.


ONE WAS MORE SURPRISED by the buzz surrounding the race than Kruger himself. A buoyant figure with yellow hair and a tendency to turn beet red whenever he gets nervous, Kruger is alternately a seasoned politico and an eager boy scout. Sipping his lemonade at Atticus Cafe five days before the election, he grinned with boyish optimism. "I didn't think this would be as big an issue for the average undergraduate as it seems to be. I'm excited and somewhat surprised and heartened." Kruger quickly denied the suggestion that he was aligned with the administration, or that his candidacy was just a "knee-jerk reaction" to Healey's affiliation with the unions. So why did he run? Well, there is the issue of poor communication. During his sophomore year, Kruger was appalled to learn he had been redistricted out of Ward One without being informed by his alderman (he has since moved back into the ward). Then there is a Lakeville, Connecticut native's love for his home state. "I'm a big fan of Connecticut," he told a group of students during his campaign. "I grew up in Connecticut ... We're part of a great tradition going back to 1636." Kruger has grown to be a big fan of New Haven as well. His first connection to the city was tinged with a sort of religious fascination. As a child, he explained, he'd seen pictures of New Haven, and thought it "looked like a New Jerusalem." But Kruger was quick to play down any characterization of himself as the city's newest savior. "This isn't about my personal political aspirations or what I want to do and what not. This is just something I've wanted to do this semester ... I felt I could, because of the way academics worked out and I was able to take time off from having a job. It's been good fun."


But if this race was good fun, it was also a lot of work. Though Kruger denies any official alignment with the university, he hints at an informal affiliation. July 7, 2003, was an important day for his campaign. On that midsummer morning, Kruger announced his candidacy by distributing a mass email and launching a campaign website. He also went to City Hall to protest the Naclerio Amendment, a resolution supported by Healey that challenged Yale's tax exemption on its for-profit ventures. "When I went to City Hall there was a picket line, which I actually think is kind of humorous in retrospect. There were Yale managers and administrators picketing, and Master Sledge was one of the ones walking around in a suit and tie with a sign." Kruger and Sledge met more formally a few days later, and Kruger's resume and his vision for New Haven convinced the Master that Dan Kruger was exactly what New Haven's renegade board needed. After the City Hall rally, Kruger attended a reception at the Yale Office of New Haven and State Affairs protesting the amendment to repeal Yale's tax exemption. Kruger claims that he did not use the reception to promote his candidacy publicly, but, he concedes, "Some of the Yale people, the Yale managers, had heard about my campaign, so they were saying things to me." Claudia Merson, the Office's Public School Administrator, and Reginald Solomon, the office's Program Director, each privately contributed to Kruger's campaign. Faculty and administrators took Kruger's candidacy seriously from its beginning. Healey, on the other hand, seemed befuddled by Kruger's challenge. On July 24, he sent Kruger an email informally inviting him to a chat.


Hey Dan,
Would you care to meet for coffee next Wednesday at 5 at Book Trader to chat for a bit? I saw your website, but I feel we are friends and am curious about your motivations for running beyond Yale stuff. It's up to you.
Best,
Ben.

Kruger's response the next day gave a vague, if genuine, explanation for his campaign.

My motivations for running are basic, but not specifically just about Yale or beyond Yale. I've been involved in New Haven since I moved here, and I've been committed to service for my state since I was very young. Connecticut has always been and will always be my home, and I feel a responsibility to give back to our community by helping to build a stronger future ....