Publication date: December 1978
Volume: twelve
Issue number: two

**MASTHEAD:**
- Editor: Aaron Betsky
- Publisher: Caroline Mitchell
- Designer: Mark Sheehan
- Graphics Editor: Karen Sideman
- Managing Editor: Eva Saks
- Associate Editors: Lenore Skenazy, Jamie Romm, Jim Clark, Ed Bennett
- Business Managers: Bill Wood, Fred Kelley, Dick Pershan, Claire Enders, S. Summers, Peter Pokalsky, Anonymous, Elizabeth Newjersey, Paul Chiasson, Frederic Hamilton, Jim Kearny, John Hall, Judith Spacks, Clare LeGros, Mike Radcliffe, Alexandra Kahn, Lindy McCrum, Ed Hornsby, La Belle Dame Sans Merci


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
comment. dreams and ecstasy, nasty, brutish and short - Staff
Saratoga Summers - Staff
Fiorucci: Visual Pretense - Claire Enders
not another Italian restaurant - 
Jackaroo: Sheep-tendancies in Australia - Ed Bennett
you always hurt the one you love - 
To the Sublime: An Interview with Charles Ludlam - Eva Saks
the private lives of the sexes - 
Neo-Rationalism: A Primer for Would-Be Beginners - Frederic Hamilton
a photographer's fieldtrip - 
SITE: Sculpture in the Environment - Paul Chiasson
and the walls come tumblin' down - 
When is a New Woman Not a New Woman? - Lenore Skenazy
the feminine mystique - 
Yalies Don't Get V.D. - Anonymous
Scenes - Dick Pershan
fiction - 
Ask Eva - Staff
Social Notes I - 


**Title: comment. dreams and ecstasy, nasty, brutish and short**
**Author: Staff**
**Page number(s): 2**

"I dreamed I was in a purple skyscraper in New York City and Charlie's Angels were the secretaries. I was a messenger, and Kate Jackson hated me. There was a lecherous doctor who wanted to give her a shot in the ass; he caught her, she screamed, and I woke up." ... "I dreamed I got high with my dean." ... "I dreamed that my sister was six months pregnant and I was very worried. I was laughing in my sleep." ... "I dreamed I was sleeping with my girlfriend and another woman. They were both giving me pleasure. One had a big ass and the other had big tits." ... "I dreamed about a school with a war inside. For some reason, I had to turn in a check stub." ... "I dreamed about a woman giving birth to a gourd." ... "I dreamed that I was walking down Lynwood Place and I met the pervert who bothered me when I was eleven." ... "I dreamed I was turning into a sphinx." ... "I dreamed that my high school admissions counselor invited me to a large Gothic house for the weekend. I overheard him tell another guest that he was keeping me prisoner, so I climbed up through the rafters and out and through a window and onto a very slippery, moss-covered roof. I slid down, and just as I was about to reach the rotting gutter, my host appeared floating in the air in front of me, revealing himself in his true glory. And he said, 'you may never leave my island.' Defying his words, I jumped off the roof and grabbed a large orange and violet plant. Then he appeared, pointed to the plant, and said, 'you can't leave. I even control the vegetation.' At which point the grass grew upwards, surrounded me, and anesthetized me back into dreamless sleep." ... "I had a very long and complex dream about Vincent Scully. It was in color." ... "I dreamed that I was talking to my parents, whom I haven't seen in a few months, and they asked me if I'd seen any feathers lately." ... "I dreamt that the man who gives me my psych experiments came into my bedroom while I was undressing." ... "I dreamt that the colleges were segregated by race and sex and social class. The dancing teacher from Harriet the Spy was in Davenport Dining Hall, auditioning people for A Chorus Line." ... "I had this completely hallucinatory dream - I kept thinking there was someone in bed with me. Then a rhinoceros came into my living room and I shot it with a tranquilizer gun. It pissed all over the carpet." ... "I dreamed something that was so obscene it was beyond pansexual!" ... "I dreamed that I was in a drawing room full of people. Someone suddenly stood and recited a quatrain to us: 

You say that you are schemers, 
Your reasoning is clear, 
But I suspect you're dreamers 
There are no jokers here.

That's all I remember." ... "I dreamed I was at a carnival and there were all these Russians riding on the ferris wheel, and I fell instantly in love with this Russian girl. But the Russians weren't allowed off the ferris wheel, and I wasn't allowed to get on. I just stood there looking and looking. I had eaten a lot of yogurt before going to bed that night; for a week after this dream, I had yogurt every night, hoping to get back to the girl on the ferris wheel."


**Title: A&A**
**Page number(s): 3**

People who really like the Art and Architecture building are usually thinking of the mutilated outside. Or the classy lecture hall, or the Gallery, or the blueberry muffins and view of both East and West Rocks at the 7th floor coffee shop. Art and Architecture students talk about their building all the time, and rarely have anything good to say about it. It looks like a corrugated cardboard box, it's a maze, it has fluorescent lights, it's too cold or too hot, the library leaks on the reference books, the fifth floor skylights leak on the models, tall people are afraid of bumping their heads on the low ceilings and everyone can hear everyone else's radio through the studio cubicles.


The A&A is a self-conscious building. Every room must have been drawn at least once by now, even the back hallways with the contaminated water coolers; every use and misuse of space has been noticed. In places it has an almost endearing awkwardness: the stairways are decorated with Egyptian frescoes and orange benches are placed on the landings in front of them. It's too dank to sit there, but it's a nice gesture, like the big shells occasionally imbedded in the ribbed concrete.


From room to room and floor to floor, self-contained societies have evolved, separate territories with particular rituals and individual chemical smells. The top floors, civilized, airy and carpeted, belong mainly to the architects and their onion skin papers, elaborate models and slanting tables. The basement, where teachers suggest wearing baseball caps to block out the lowness of the ceiling, is full of photographers, film makers and undergraduate painters. They're painting a black still life (umbrellas, mostly, and inner tubes, a bowling ball, trunk, iron, unrecognizable metal things) and a white still life (onions, eggs, hats, stuffed animals, and a car exhaust pipe). The blue collar workers always walk through Intermediate Painting, sometimes striking mock poses on the way.


The number of scarves, berets and black sneakers increases markedly on the fourth and fifth floors. There are colored dabs and sad-eyed faces finger painted by the phone where graduate painters wipe their hands on the walls. Someone has done a faint figure drawing called "Blue Nude" impossibly high up near the ceiling on the wall of the two-story fourth floor "pit." Hundreds of canvases lean against each other in the corridors. The studios where the doors are shut indicate sacred privacy; open doors invite a chat and criticism. Every grad student's studio is a personal world. One hangs up his intricate velvety dry-points of a piece of fur and draws his benches and windows. One does angry paintings on wood; "You can be a criminal in your own studio," he says. One is building things with branches painted in red and white enamel. Sister Alysino, here for a year from Ireland, covers her walls with landscapes and drawings of carnations and pomegranates. "I never intended to be serious about this," she says, "but I'm getting more so all the time. Sometimes when I'm ready to leave, I'll think it's still a beautiful day outside and it will be night and raining. I'm so terribly absent-minded. You can lose all track of time in here."


**Arvin Brown: Artistoc Director**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
t 0 N 
1 (; 
\\' 1·1 A H 1: ~ 'l',ll I~ A T H I~ 
I 
) 
' 
: 
! 
Arvin Brown 
Arttstoc Otreclor 
One week Only 
On The Mainstage 
DECEMBER 26 -
DECEMBER 3 1 
EMLYN WILLIAMS 
as 
THE PLAYBOY 
,OF THE 
WEEKEND 
WORLD 
A solo entertainment 
Devised by Mr. Williams 
from the stories of "Saki" 
Weeknights: $5.50 and $6.50 
Friday and Saturday nights: $6.50 and $7.50 
M. Edgar Rosenblum 
Execul•ve Otreclor 
222 Sargent Drive, New Haven, Conn.exit 46 Conn. Tpke. (203) 787-4282 


**Fragmentary Introductions; A Story; Further Introductions**
**Author: Claire Enders**
**Page number(s): 5**

Uu· N''"' .Journal. o,.,.,.mlwr 197X 
' ~-
Fragmentary lntrodul'lions 
A slickly crammed eye, peering out 
on 59th St. between Park and 
Lexington, with a loud madly 
coloured labyrinthine brain stretching 
behind. Fiorucci. a store. 

An elongated face, mummified by 
strips of colour, blinking under 
pulsing light; bobby-soxed feet boxed 
into platform sandals. Fiorucci. a 
salesgirl. 

A dark young punk. arabesque 
smile dreaming on his face, perches a 
half-!lobe of yellow plastic on his 
acrobatic hair. Fiorucci. a shopper. 

A thin ellipse of the female genre 
high-steps adroitly. gleaming in the 
mirrors. blissful eyes smiling. 
Fiorucci. a cruiser. 

A Story 
Elio Fiorucci speaks: "Freedom is 
the most important thing. People 
must unlearn arbitrary and capricious 
rules and follow their own unbounde( 
spirits ... 

Fiorucci began in 1967. in Milan. 
The concept behind the store has not 
changed. he says: it is meant to be a 
gallery. a meeting-place. a refuge. an 
intelligent business overflowing with 
brilliantly-coloured witty or witless 
gadgets. accessories and clothes. A 
jim place: music insistently ber7.erk. 
colours leaping out of corners like 
cra7cd animals. roaring neon. Fiorucc 
says he wanted to break the rules of 
fashion. to propose a life-style and a 
persona that would trash and clash 
with neat middle-class tastes. The 
emphasis in the design of the store is 
on colour and space and movement: 
the clothes arc moved almost daily. 
the trinkets pop precariously from 
counters. hombastic graphics hlast 
across walls. Fiorucci persistently 
uttcmpts to avoid permanence. prc-
dictahility. horedom. Otherwise. their 
market would vanish. Buyers comb 
not only Europe hut also Thailand. 
Hong Kong. Taiw:m. and Japan for 
:.mything that will he hmsh. new. and 
l>alcahlc. However. most of the major 
artifacts :1rc concci\cd in Cof)>ic<~ h~ a 
snwll !!roup of dl-signcrs. A concept 
tap' into a picl'C of merchandise 
quickly. l>incc f:lio Fiorucci maintainl> 
that alter two weeks. the idea is stale 
and old already. The item is then 
consumed in a few days and thrown 
out, even. it seems. if it sells 
remarkably well. Pants are an 
exception: they are not exactly cheap 
and are not meant to be. With respect 
to the glittering pinked-out and 
redded-in accessories. the themes are 
kitsch Miami Beach: palm trees. 
UFO's. pin-ups. cherubs. propellor 
planes. 

Further Introductions 
Red satin garters rigor-mortisized 
with stiffness. courageously worn 
sunglasses. poodle and cow pins. 
turquoise/ red drop earrings. glow-
worm belts. grinning plastic purses. 
sequined bracelets. tin parrot or fruit 
fly or dragon fly pins. flammable 
inflammatory tiny hats. kitsch hea' y-
breasted booted and conspicuously 
buxom brash brass beauties grinning 
on posters and postcards. yellow and 
purple feathered fans. green blue red 
black quilted jackets. a few large 
pla'itic apologetic penguins. black & 
red & white leggings for sidewalk or 
secretarial hussies. IO<Y'(- wool 
sweaters. cappucino or espresso 
giggling in sea-blue cups. 

Fioruct'i. upstairs. 

A sweet-faced tender-aged fellow in 
a proud tuxedo slips his e\cr-so pale 
finger along the groo\cs of a sad-eyed 
plastic penguin. 

Fiorucci. innocence astray. 

A high-twotcd blondicd candicd 
fu11cd mascarading agcy and cagey 
madcmoisdlc trips O\cr a step as shc 
slides up the stair~ umbilicating 
upstairs and do\\ mtairs. tmnslix'-·d b~ 
hcr image in th'-' mirrors. 

Fiorun·t. a tmnbic. 

A stout ing S\\ il>hy-haircd young 
man \\ith :1 l..ind l.lllilc and tircd eye~. 
J'ioruai. A ngdo C'a redd u. head of 
public rclat itml>. 


**The Rest of the Story**

-
The Rest of the Story 
"We are not Saint Laurent. .. 
concedes Angelo Careddu. Fashion 
laughing at its own presumption. 
perhaps. for people who want to 
make witty flings at solid and sturdy 
quality clothes that people \\car in 
banks. That image has stra~ed and 
become stable in the fashion world. 
Elio Fiorucci's clothes are not only 
worn to discos. All sorts of types 
wander and flit around in them. 
jading an eye (mine). "hich becomes 
unamused b\' all this tiresome cQlour. 
manufactured and stamped humour. 
Most of the clothes are made of 
cotton alone. or mixes of artificial 
fabrics. Highly flammable stuff. Th~ 
image of tacky clothes and accesso.nes 
has become a paradox. Like all agmg 
re\ olutionaries. Fiorucci wants to 
insist on the essential quality of its 
items. It now wants to use more 
wools and other fabrics that lasr -
while keeping up the glittering 
pretense of momentary splendour. 
amid \Oiatile whips and swaths ot 
colour. 

Fiorucci·s ofticial philosophy is to 
pro\ ide a nice \\Orld to play in for 
those "ho are deemed. in a boring 
trite commonplace. "~oung at heart" 
as well as bod' . Witness the large 
turno,er of saicspeople. the endless 
peregrination), of space colour and 
merchandil.c around the place. the 
bombastic and often outrageous 
display" indn\\S. thc infinite \aricty 
and change of itcms. the namc. 
Fiorucci. aping Polo. Gucci. 
Gi,cnch\'. e\en S:~int I aurcnt. 
Hermes.' L:tco~te. Cardin. is bbted 
inside and outside of most piec'-·s . . 
Fiorucei's concepts. to deal "ith '' 
ta\\dr~ ~ide. carn it ..t5 Million Otlllars 
pcr annum. 

All thil> tl.tl-h, trash and paper '-'tmld 
concci\ a hi\ be g\Hl'-' in a k" minutes. 
Stl tliml-\ ,;re the dothes. so light arc 
the pla,ii'-· arttfa'-·"· M) ltwl-c th'-' 
beallll.. thc tltltlrl-. the l'OSnlll' l-p<IC\.' .. 
thc mu'•'-· l'nuld fad'-' .1nd all \\istlully 
lade b\ the ptl\h'r tll :1 sma II tla Ill\.' tlf 
"ind. ~lr the 1mpla'-·ah•ht~ nf ag'-'· 
Claire l.'11dc·r• drt'""' ,.,.,._. well. 


**Jackaroo: Sheep-tend-encies in Australia**
**Author: Ed & nnell**
**Page number(s): 6**

Jackaroo: 
I met an Australian couple in the 
Lake District in England a couple of 
weeks before leaving for Australia. I 
told them of my plans and the woman 
gave me three things to look out for: 
sun, dust and flies. I found all three .. I 
asked the cook my first day about the 
heat, hoping to have my fears allayed. 
He told me to cover my body or rd 
burn severely ... No one stands in this 
sun for more than thirty minutes, 
Eddie, you bum." I had six months of 
nine-hour workdays coming up. I had 
committed myself to being a jackaroo 
before being a freshman. 

I rode into Perth. The sky was 
bright blue and Perth was spotless, 
green parks, flowers and beautifully 
quiet. I spent a day there, my intro-
duction to Western Australia, then 
flew to Esperance. As we circled the 
airstrip I scanned the flat, green 
landscape. Tiny white spots 
scampered away as we buzzed by. 
Sheep, my companions for six 
months. Nearby the ocean was clear 
blue, smooth and alluring. Esperance 
itself is stark, flat land that has either 
been cleared for grazing or cropping 
or has been left untouched; virgin 
land. In Esperance, I could see the 
horizon forming and the sky stretched 
over the fields, making me feel small. 
Zooming around 300-acre paddocks 
on a motorcycle in the sweet smelling 
heat, herding sheep, I didn't need 
college -
I didn't want college. The 
farm was quiet, unstructured, slow-
paced -
everything life in America is 
not. Where was I? On a sheep farm in 
Australia twenty hours on a plane 
away from home, but it seemed 
farther than that, so foreign was the . 
landscape. The forests and mountains · 
of home were in another space 
entirely, completely out of mind. 

My most serene moments came in 
the early morning and evening. I was 
up at six nearly every workday. I rose 
easily, feeling sore from the previous 
day, but not reluctant. I would grab a 
two-gallon pail and walk across a 
small field to the milking shed, where 
the cows and their full udders waited. 
At that hour, no one else was awake. 
The sun was just rising and I felt 
exhilarated, not knowing the world 
could be so still and bright. In the 
evenings I took long walks. When the 
sky had been clear during the day, the-
stars would dot the night in all direc-
tions, making me feel as if I were on 
the middle of a pincushion. 

But during the day the heat was 
like the blueness of the sky -
always 
there. It seared our backs and soaked 
us with sweat. At the beginning of a 
day, we would sense how hot it would 
feel. Before lunch, a hot wind would 
often sweep down on us from the 
northern deserts. Lips would dry and 
the sheep would be reluctant to move. 
If we were working closely with the 
sheep, it became especially trying. 

My first days, we were busy jetting 
sheep. This, I learned, meant forcing 
them through a narrow walkway. A 
horizontal series of bars was pressed 
aside as each sheep walked through, 
triggering a spraying mechanism. The 
chemical would prevent, for a few 
short ~lc:s, flies from laying eggs on 
them. 

One week I was part of a conver-
sation which left me shaken. Peter, a 
fellow jackaroo, turned to another 
one· of us and asked: "Has Ed killed 
his first sheep yet?" Ed said to 
himself, with a mixed expression of 
disbelief and surprise, .. He's joking, 
right?" Then, out loud: .. What d'ya 
mean -
why kill them?" "We eat 
mutton out here. Ever have mutton?" 
I began phrasing arguments in my 
head. Can't stand blood. That's it! 
Hopelessly squeamish. Maybe a little 
fainting would do the trick. Or how 
about the philosophical approach: 
preservation of life, inhumanity, 
cruelty to future lamb chops ... ? I 
tucked these forensic gems aside and 
glossed the discussion over with a 
laugh. Maybe they'd forget ... 

The following week, my initiation 
took place. Chris and I drove to the 
paddock of ration sheep or "killers," 
selected three, tied their legs and 
brought them to the killing block. In 
clinical fashion, Greg and Chris each 
demonstrated their styles, discussing 
fine points (removal of bladder, 
snapping of forelegs) as they went. 
Then it was my turn. I didn't want to 
do·this, and the pathetic, shaking 
sheep didn't like the vibrations either. 
All I could see was one of its eyes 
staring at me. It began to bleat, and I 
thought I could hear my name: 
"Eheehd ... Eeehed." An hour and a 
half later I was covered with blood 
and fat, panting and finished. By the 
end of six months, I would do it in 
fifteen minutes. 

A month later, hay carting began, 
tlie most physically exacting job I did .. 
The hay had been cut, raked and 
baled. Now we were to collect the 
5,000 odd bales and create two huge 
stacks. One drove the truck, a second 
grabbed the bale as it came flying up 
the elevator and the third would stack 
the bales on the truck's boarded floor. 
My first time out produced sore 
shoulders, blistered hands and a new 
conception of the word hot. The straw 
dust blew its way through my long 
sleeve shirt and blue jeans, making me 
itch. But the steady rhythm of lift, 
place, lift, place would soon take 
hold, and the smooth, soothing sea 
breeze would seep in, blowing back 
the hot winds. 

In January we put the rams in. 
Backing the covered truck against a 
hill, we would release thirty of them 
to attend to a flock of 600 ewes. This 
happened once a year for these 
horned beauties and when you let 
them off, they ran. A month later, we 
returned to reverse things, using 
motorcycles and the ever-present 
dogs. There were three of us: Mike, 
Colin and I. The other two had dogs. 
This left one of us to wade through 
the sheep, grab the unhappy rams and 
drag them back onto the truck. The 
rams knew what was going on. They 
watched me from the comers of their 
eyes and shifted nervously. The dogs 
themselves were perhaps more 
valuable than I was. They could run 
faster, understood instructions well, 
didn't crash into fences and always 
did as they were told. They only 
respond to one person: Until you run 
down a sheep in the middle of a 
paddock you can't realize what an 
uset these srriall pups could be. They 
•ode on the back of the Land Rovers 
and, on command, would jump off 
and wrestle down a sheep pointed to. 
They'd bring a mob down a hill and 
run them in a circle for us to inspect 
or push them up a race to be counted 
and cured. And they did it all for a 
can of ground pseudo-meat. 

I had less luck with horses and 
cows. The former were too big and I 
didn't like their eyes. Like the rams, 
they understood too much. When it 
came down to it, I didn't want to hop 
on the back of one, but the inevitable 
occurred after two weeks of anxiety. 
We steered the lucky five horses into 
a small pen. Chris hopped on his bare 
back. Bareback! Amazed, I moved 
hesitantly toward Duke, my mount. 
He eyed me knowingly. Be a good 
poker player, I thought. I walked with 
my saddle, which I handled like an 
amateur. Duke didn't want me, and I 
wasn't too happy about crawling on 
top of him either. Luckily, the 
confrontation was delayed for a few 
days. We were to round up cattle and 
herd them across a stock route to 
another paddock. I was riding Duke 
again. Mike left for a few minutes, 
telling me to saddle up and wait. I 
was feeling cocky by this time, since a 
couple of uneventful weelc.s of riding 
left me thinking I could do it easily. I 
hopped on and scanned the horizon. 
Ah! life in the outback. Then, I saw 
three stray bead o' cattle in the 
corner. I set off, in a canter. Then 
Duke, quiet, peaceful Duke, the horse 
they gave to green city boys, bolted, 
just took off at full gallop. My foot 
immediately slipped a stirrup and my 
attempts to pull up Duke fell 
ridiculously short .- leaving me 
scared sbitless. Duke began a sweep-
ing turn back toward the fence. At 
this point, my thoughts bad no 
coherence. Somehow I thought that 
the horse would jump the fence -
quite a trick at that speed. Instead, he 
abruptly pulled himself out of his 
hellish run ten yards from the fence. 
His momentum threw me headlong, 
and I landed at the foot of the fence. 
Too white and trembling to be angry, 
I got up and shook my arms. 

My easiest job was when I had to 
take care of Stan. Stan was the 
exceptional ram. $1 1,000 worth of 
horns, fleece and, it was hoped, 
semen. Stan was housed alone and 
indoors, hand fed and watered, given 
~very privilege a well-born young ram 
should have. These included an 
unlimited sexual life ... Family" was 
the mob of 200 ewes that Stan 
fathered. Unlike the other rams, 
though, Stan had individual ewes 
brought into his pen, sometimes 
unwillingly. We wrote the ear tag 
number of each ewe in the stud book 
and waited for Stan to deliver an 
$11,000 screw . . 

When I first saw my fellow jacks 
and a stockman kick and throw sheep 
around I was disgusted and appalled. 
Their insensitivity was incredible, I 
thought. Then I wondered if I would 
become that way by the time I left. Is 
this. what my experience wilt mean to 
m.e? Traditionally, jacks are the worst 
offenders when it comes to this sort of 
irresponsible behavior. I watched the 
others, though, and noticed that both 
overseers and the stockman, Peter (an 
egregious offender) would often do a 
number on an uncooperative sheep. 
Greg Bannon, the manager, never did, 
though. He had a sardonic life view, 
an easygoing manner, and he seemed 
above our fits of pique. I retract the 
word .. never," however. Once he, 
Chris and I were selecting rams to be 
trucked to another stud farm. Greg 
was handling each animal's balls in an 
effort to judge its breeding potential. I 
enjoyed work that day -
Greg was in 
good humor. Then one ram refused to 
remain quiet and still. Greg cursed 
and, grabbing it by the horns, flipped 
the ram on its back roughly. Chris 
and 1 exchanged glances. Ah -
even 
Greg loses it sometimes. 

In December, the Australian 
summer begins to peak. The bright 
green fields become brown, dusty and 
dry. The little yellow flowers shrivel 
and vanish. I wondered how the sheep 
stayed alive, having so little to eat. I 
would wander about the beaches. 
Only twice did I find more than five 
people walking on the sand. I could 
swim alone, jumping from the chunks 
of granite into cold, shining water. 
The days became hot and bright, and 
continued t• rJag. 



**Title: To the Sublime: An Interview with Charles Ludlam**
**Author: Eva Saks**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"Sawing a woman in half can be accomplished by any idiot with a sword. The trick is in putting her back together." -Charles Ludlam, circa 1978
Charles Ludlam is the acknowledged power behind the throne on which he sits at the Ridiculous Theatrical Company. For the past ten years, R.T.C. has been celebrated as New York's most innovative Off-Off-Broadway company. They are currently performing UTOPIA INCORPORATED at the Sheridan Square Playhouse, their new home. (UTOPIA is described by R.T.C.'s Executive Director Christopher Scott as being about "two -drug smugglers who get sucked into a whirlpool in the Bermuda Triangle and find themselves in a utopian civilization at the earth's inner crust."- "It's a cross between Abbott and Costello and high avant-garde drama circa 1956," he added.) The troupe ·mrs spent the past few months performing Ludlam's Camille, Stage Blood, ·and The Ventriloquist's Wife in repertory. We discussed the latter, the story of a malign-spirited ventriloquist's dummy named Walter Ego who diabolically devastates his parents, Charles and Susan.


ES: How did you become interested in ventriloquism?
CL: When I was little, my older brother gave me a dummy and I did ventriloquism. (Nobody paid any attention to me, I don't remember anyone saying it was particularly good. But recently, when I told my mother I'd got a dummy, she said, "You used to do that so well." I said, "Oh, I didn't know that.")


ES: Have you always wanted to do a show with a dummy?
CL: Yes. I'd been doing Punch and Judy (puppet shows) and I realized fd like to have a different relationship to the figure, one where I'd be a character in relation to him ... I bold these conversations with myself, two parts of myself, divided and always set in opposition. So that was really the impulse ... In fact, a number of years ago I bought a rare book on ventriloquism called "Practical Ventriloquism" by a man who was in Henry Irving's troupe at the turn of the century. (He didn't believe in using dummies, be felt that was a corruption of PURE ventriloquism, which means vocal performance, exclusively: you imitate the sound of a distant train, a voice coming from the floor; you can throw your voice to create an illusion, open a door and have a conversation with somebody who was out in the hall who's unseen. The author included a section on working with figures, but basically didn't approve of it, thought it declasse.)


ES: When did you start working on the Ventriloquist's Wife?
CL· Last summer, when there were a number of ventriloq~sts around. I was in Philadelphia doing Punch and Judy on t his stage that had been used in a circus. (The set looked very Diane Arbus sitting there; it had this wonderful quality that the Japanese call - well, SUCHNESS.) And I imagined myself sitting with this pretty, weird little screen behind me, a ventriloquist's dummy on my lap. That was on a Saturday night, and of course there was no way to get a dummy on Sunday. Th,e next day I talked about ventriloquism continuously and drove all my friends crazy, and Monday morning I got up and went to a magic shop. I saw a bunch of dummies that didn't appeal to me very much, but there was this little child sitting a"'ong the dummies and that was WALTER!


ES: You never wanted to try ventriloquism with another person as the dummy?
CL· Ac.tually, we tried it that way, but there was something wrong with the scale of a man on my knee. We were the same size ... Jerry StiJJer suggested I use Susan as the dummy (Actress Black-Eyed Susan, the flower of the R.T.C., who plays the ventriloquist's wife), but it didn't have the right effect. Also, I thought it would be wonderful if the dummy could be something PORTABLE. (Though fve realized since that the dummy is like a guitar or something; you have to CARRY it yourself, whereas you wouldn't dream of carrying puppets or another person. So maybe in the long run it's more of a burden to have Walter.) I can take Walter anywhere, and it becomes theater; wherever he is suddenly becomes a theatrical situation. If I were starving, I could take Walter to a street corner, pass the hat, and have enough money to buy a sandwich. With ventriloquism and puppetry, I had created a portable theater, a portable art form where I could indulge my extra appetite for theater, above and beyond what I could do with my ensemble, beyond what I could afford to do. As far as the play, for years I had wanted to do the story of possession, which is the ventriloquist's story ... I like the idea of the ventriloquist who's doing the dummy while the dummy still has a will, an opposing will. Because you have an opposing will within yourself ... Mentally, I catalogued the resources of ventriloquism, of what ventriloquism could do, and I used that as my vocabulary (for playwrighting). Susan and I worked together ... I taught her ventriloquism. A few of the secrets and she could do it perfectly. Susan and I decided to play out this fantasy between us. I wanted to use my own name because that made it more ambiguous, more like Games People Play ... Waiter was carved by a ventriloquist in New Jersey, but a lot of people said he looked just like me. I think I looked like that when I was a kid, but maybe I'm just projecting; maybe dummies come to look like their owners and owners begin to look like their dummies after a while. That would mean I'd be looking younger and younger in this case, so I don't mind.


Walter and I decided to work together in a puppet show. We tried the streets ... We went to this bar on Third A venue called Little Peter's - black transsexuals lip-synching to tapes, standing right on tbe floor. I went home to my Bauhaus theater chart to analyze what form of theater this was and I came out with "FAIR-GROUND." So I thought, that's where I am. I'm in a fairground, that's the nature of this. I found it very hard (to work there) because actually the lip-synch that was being done is ALSO ventriloquism - which is very funny - the performers were their own dummies! ... So I got very turned on. I thought that was where I really belonged, in this very raunchy crowd carrying on with fever and disorder - which I've always romantically thought was the true atmosphere for theater ... men and ladies of the evening and all kinds of people ... well, it was a wild and· wooly atmosphere but I don't think that THEY had the same sentimental attachment to ME that I had to THEM. I saw them as out of The Blue Angel, and they couldn't figure out what the hell I was doing there.


ES: Was the show raunchier then?
CL· No, I was doing very clean lines then; naive, almost poetic jokes about Walter's childhood. They liked a lot of it, though ultimately the place got too crazy and I left. Then Stuart Sherman, who is a conceptual theater person - he manipulates objects on small trays, and they have theatrical impact - he wanted to do his show on the streets and so did I, so we went around together. Finally, though, I decided that I didn't want to work on the streets. I couldn't get the kind of attention and concentration that I needed. The things I was doing were too subtle, and I knew I would have to change the act and become a barker, and have a very short act full of fireworks so I could slam them with it, stop, pass the hat, and move on ... But as I wrote it, The Ventriloquist's Wife had to be done in a cabaret.


ES: How does working in a cabaret differ from performing in a theater?
CL· In a cabaret, there's a certain amount of other activity that reflects the attention of the audience: people start drinking, someone turns his chair around to see better. Remember the scene in Annie Hall where she decides to go into cabaret? She's singing, and everything's going wrong - and that's what it's like, captured perfectly! But then, it's so much more of an accomplishment when a hush comes over a cabaret More of an accomplishment, in a sense, than in a theater, where people wouldn't dream of EA TJNG, or calling for a drink while you're performing. So I kind of like that, it's a demand on me. (Mr. Ludlam peruses my review of his play, published in the January 4, 1978 issue of Casting Call, which describes Walter as "strongly resembling a sex-changed Anita Bryant.")


CL· It is true that Walter's rather pretty for a demonic dummy. But there's something also about that fear of the beautiful child ... Walter scares me a little bit ... I don't like gazing at him, because Tdo get a rather bizarre feeling ... I have to get away from him sometimes. And he sometimes says unexpected things! Walter's very lucky - this whole play is a vehicle for him.


ES: Are you pleased with the play as it is?
CL· It changes from night to night. I improvise, but I don't ad-lib, and ~re is a diffe~ce. Improvisation is a t~chnique: you approach it witb guidelines, trying to 8(XX)mplish SOD.le- contimlid to JH16~ 14


**Title: Neo-Rationalism: A Printer for Would-be Beginners**
**Author: Frederic Hamilton**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

A "new wave" of European architects is carving out a niche in the American architectural establishment: the Italian nco-rationalists. Historically speaking, they find their roots in the self-proclaimed "Rationalist" Gruppo Sette of the late 1920s. These architects demanded an architectural aesthetic derived "exclusively from the character of necessity," and for construction to give expression to the "New Spirit" so evident to the youth of post-war Europe. The members of this group found in the work of such architects as Peter Behrens, Mies van der Rohe, Mendelsohn, Gropius, Le Corbusier and others clues to how such a vision of built form could be extracted from the necessities of the time - how indeed this New Spirit could be fulfilled. But what marks them out from the generality of that milling crowd of excited artistes who dominated the intellectual "scene" between the wars, are certain attitudes deriving from, as they themselves put it in 1926, Italy's "nature, tradition, and most of all ... the victorious period it is passing through . ., Reading between the lines of their manifestoes, one can detect, even beyond their explicit discussion of the notion of type, a concern for a whole world of issues of which the idea of typology is only a part, and which can be generally described as morphological.


The Group of Seven, for a short while prominent in Italian artistic circles, and even involved in a respectable amount of material production, wa~ eventually discarded by Fascist administrators, to be replaced by blandly monumentalist neo-classicists. Their writings were forgotten, their buildings ignored. Ignored, that is, by the mainstream: for the young leftists of the period immediately following the Second World War, their work was an inspiration. The attitudes and themes delineated in the twenties were finally grasped and began to receive the kind of critical attention necessary for their development into consistent, coherent theoretical positions. One can see in the writings of these architects the opening up of new horizons for architectural discourse, whose roots lie explicitly in the rationalism of the twenties. The architects involved in the movement were already beginning to formulate both a distinct theory and a formal "look" that would later intersect strategically with the views of entrapped and exhausted professionals of America who had been beaten down from their former brilliance by the triumph of the previous wave of European architects, the Modernists.


The most well known of this new group of neo-rationalists is Aldo Rossi. So far, his most widely published project has been the winning entry in the Modena Cemetery competition (now under construction) which, through its stark articulation of pure, though perhaps linguistically ambiguous form, is able to.draw the broad light of day into discussion with the eternally dark. Rossi will undoubtedly have a large impact on architectural thinking in the next few years, but it is important to remember that he is only one of a relatively large group of architects and intellectuals in other fields who share the same core of beliefs in common. Among these, the chief theoretician must certainly be Manfredo Tafuri, whose slight but weighty book, Architecture and Uropia, has recently been translated into this language, and who himself now makes forays of sporadic frequency into this country. At the other end of the spectrum is Carlo Aymonino, one of the most prolific of neo-rationalist builders, who has been relatively neglected on this side of the Atlantic.


But quite aside from the team's line-up, what do the "neo-rats" have to say? At first glance, their views hardly appear revolutionary, especially considering the predilection of these designers for so-called pure forms and monumental harmonies. But underneath all of this is a radical approach to architecture, the city, and, above all, to construction itself. While Tafuri declares the end of the profession, and Scolari tries, on various continents (among them Manhattan) to educate it, they unite in declaring the architect, as society's foremost expert on construction, to be absolutely central to the development of the plan, the formal, social, economic and ultimately spiritual process by which humankind's evolution is to proceed. This is not utopianism, but rather a statement of will on the part of architects to take a place which is rightfully theirs, to assume a role which reason itself allots to them. Reason? For the nco-rationalists, architecture is construction, and more than that, it is a construction of ideas, having a logical structure independent of ideological considerations, related, through its typology, to the city and embracing memory through its ordering of urban morphology. Thus architecture is the impingement of thought - of reason - on the world, the tool by which man shapes and directs both his past and his future.


Frederic Hamilton awaits the Battle of the Words on the Seventh Floor.


**Title: SITE: Sculpture in the Environment**
**Author: Paul Chiasson**
**Page number(s): 8**

One wonders how well the field of architecture has weathered the twentieth century. The overwhelming move towards technology has created an environment littered with memorials to function, economy, and formalism. Recently, however, the images of technology have lost their ability to excite, and the axiom "Form follows Function" is less mighty than it once was. It seems society was not prepared for an aesthetic lacking ambiguity, complexity, or a sense of humor.


The more recent past has witnessed the resurgence of a more humanistic approach to architecture. Post-modernism, a catch-all phrase for the growing number of current styles, has opened the profession to a re-evaluation of its aging dogmas. Most popular among these trends is an increasing interest in eclecticism. The icons of the past are an attractive alternative to the stark brutality of the present. But eclecticism seems strangely out of place in a society based on suburbs, shopping centers, automobiles, and technology.


SITE, Inc., of New York, tias been dealing with some of these problems since its conception in 1970. Aware of the growing-pains of the architectural profession, a group of artists, headed by James Wines, began looking closely at the role of architecture and public art in today's society. Two problems became clear: the inability of architecture to communicate to more than a handful of members of our society and the fissure which has grown between the arts and architecture.


Originally concerned with large scale public sculpture, SITE (for Sculpture In The Environment) became interested in the iconographic possibilities of architecture. The SITE group realized the impact that changes in the traditionally perceived built world could have if buildings were treated less as designed objects and more as a vehicle for social commentary. They postulated that if the accepted axiom that architectural form should relate to internal function was minimized, architecture could communicate to a much wider range of society. For SITE, the continuity between outside and inside is of little importance; the external influences of the social and cultural context are the dominant factors in their work.


Contrary to the great percentage of present day architectural thought, SITE's ideas evolve from the outside in, freeing the facade of the building to inform or comment.


SITE's most widely known work is a series of buildings for Best Products Company, a catalogue-showroom merchandiser. The first project for the Best Company was completed in 1972. To an existing box-like structure, SITE added a brick veneer facade with peeling corners, giving the building a feeling of tentativeness and instability - the facade ln<?ks as if it is falling off the building. Rather than a static piece of architecture, the building is shown in a state of flux, either in_ a period of growth or decay.


In 1975, S ITE designed the "Indeterminate Facade," another Best building for Houston, Texas. The building, located in a typical suburban shopping·area, was given a brick face which extended above the roofline. The top of the facade was arbitrarily chipped away, leaving a ragged brick edge. At one point, the facade was fragmented to allow a cascade of bricks to fall over the entrance canopy. Here again, the idea of architecture in the process of becoming or reducing changes our perception of building. This ambiguity establishes a discontinuity between what we perceive and what we already consider as valid.


ln the NOTCH project, a corner of the typical white brick box was cut away. The remaining notch was fixed to a rail system incised into the pavement so that it could be added or subtracted from the building. This fragmented notch moves forty feet out from the building to expose the entrance. Within the standard shopping center context, SITE has changed our subconscious perception of the environment by changing very little of the actual physical reality. In the case of NOTCH, fragmentation has led to the addition of meaning.


In the latest project, TILT, the entire masonry block facade is casually tilted to reveal the in_side of the building. In an environment of strict linearity, the use of a precariously tilted facade establishes a visual dialogue between what we know, the traditional shopping center, and what we perceive, the plane of brick unexpectedly lifted from the building. Such a casual comment forces a questioning of both the perceived and the accepted.


SITE treats the building as a found object, changing the formal aspects of the structure only slightly. A peeling facade, the addition of a cascade of bricks, the subtraction of a corner, or the casual tilting of a facade are seemingly simple devices accomplished with an economy of-means. The interior of their buildings function under the same grid pattern as most other large shopping centers, allowing the owners to use the space as they wish. However, by using the skin of the building as a vehicle for art, SITE allows us to reevaluate our perception of the environment. In this way, the questions which these buildings generate both enrich and strengthen their context.


Working within a strict set of professional dogmas, traditional architecture appears fixed on proliferating and strengthening those institutions and values which our society has begun to question. To these fixed ideologies, SITE offers an alternative. The ambiguity, irony, and humor of the Best buildings seem a welcome change.



**When is a New Woman Not a New Woman?**
**Author: Lenore Skenazy**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
When is a New Woman Not a New Woman?
New Woman magazine bills itself as "a digest for the woman of the Seventies." It should specify which century it represents. Although the slogan presumably refers to the present decade, the articles, ads, and attitudes expressed are basically as sexist and degrading as any published long before female suffrage, much less women's liberation.


The table of contents for the December, 1978 issue reinforces the magazine's schizophrenia - it dedicates itself to the independent "new woman," but is convinced that she needs a man to make her happy. "Are You Overly Concerned with the Opinions of Others?" and "How Popular are You?" cannot both appeal to the same new woman. "Are You Capable of Sexual Beauty?" follows an article stressing, "The key to sexual beauty is to go beyond the sense of sight," and suggesting "we get out of the Playboy environment." But the magazine has a monthly feature called "Reducing," and gives a painful but supposedly very effective method for removing cellulite (apply boiling water and ice cubes to the skin) in another section called "Doctor's Office." Be happy with your body and disregard those gorgeous models, says one article, while others tell you how to become one of those skin-deep beauties.


Under the liberated woman-type heading Successful Living New Woman presents the article, "If You Want to Meet Men." Its feminist conviction, "Your worth as a human being does not depend upon your popularity nor upon any man's reaction to you," would provide a welcome note of liberation if the article did not elsewhere promise, "Just five principles hold the key to scientific man-meeting. Once incorporated into your thinking, these put man-meeting within your control." "Yes, now you can develop the kind of magnetic attractiveness and sex appeal that excites and arouses others the moment you walk into a room ... thanks to the great new mind-reprogramming book called Inner Looks." Although these two mind-control quotes seem to be from the same article, the second one is actually part of the blurb for the $7.95 book Inner Good Looks advertised on the opposite page. Inner Good Looks promises a "sure fire way to get others to fantasize about you sexually," and is "unconditionally guaranteed to improve your good looks in two weeks."


Mind over body - to diet, to glow, and to arouse. Is this what a truly liberated woman would waste her brain power on - feeling good about herself just so others will too, hopefully men?


Of course! claims New Woman in another two articles called "Relating to Others," and "Relating to a Lover." Both stress advertising your true self while being a good listener, empathetic, and quiet about your own problems because your friends and lovers "have enough of their own."


What happens if the woman who wants a relationship happens to be impatient or troubled? Mind over personality, of course. Although the author advises that "to misrepresent yourself is a waste of time, because any relationship evolving from such a meeting will be in big trouble when the real you is discovered," he directly contradicts himself later saying you must act a certain way to make and keep friends, whether you feel comfortable that way or not.


"Can you buy friendship? You not only can, you must," emphasizes the "Relating to Others/ a Lover" author. "Every person has needs. When you fill one or more of those needs, you're paying for someone's friendship." But, the author warns a page later in bold type, "Friends won't respect you for trying to be unselfish." You're out for yourself, honey, so grab some friends and be sympathetic, but not for their sake; and be yourself, but only if you're an angel on the make.


If you're a liberated woman on the make (and after all, aren't all new women horny, hedonistic, husband-hunters?), remember that "If you want to be liked - and loved," you cannot "keep yourself - your real self - in hiding." Dr. George Weinberg, author of the article "If You Want to be Liked - and Loved," says that you must also enjoy life. Never mind that the "you must enjoy yourself" attitude is the basic American guilt trip as defined by Martha Wolfenstein in her essay "Fun Morality." For others to like you and for you to like yourself you must, as the New Woman author stresses, "get involved in as much as you can in the world around you," and enjoy it, goddammit. While Wolfenstein says this indoctrination makes us less able to enjoy life and hence guilt-ridden, New Woman says it makes us more us. While Wolfenstein says this reduces our pleasure play to a duty, New Woman thinks this is not the case, and that we do it to please ourselves. The fact that the magazine insists that to be liked - and loved we must do it, however, proves that we are living and enjoying life for someone else in the hopes that she or he will love us for it. "To be liked, don't try to please others," says the author hypocritically after eight tips on how to win friends and influence people which seem almost lifted from Dale Carnegie.


When you are finished or tired of winning and influencing new lovers and likers, perhaps it is time to turn to your own spouse. Dale Carnegie includes a section on domestic tranquility, why should New Woman be any different? "What can YOU do to make your relationship better?" is the unlikely lead sentence in an article titled "Fighting Fulfills a Function for Staying Together." You must "make yourself more attractive and thus make working at the relationship easier for him."


With this advice the New Woman goes beyond Dale Carnegie's sycophancy to Maribel Morgan's sick Total Woman-ism. Just as Maribel suggests each wife greet her husband with a kiss and a compliment every evening when he comes home, New Woman exemplifies "Judy, an elementary school teacher," who, when her husband "came in the door after work each day would give him a kiss, smile, and say, 'Hi, handsome.' No matter how she felt." Italics. New Woman's. This same article later admonishes "the woman who regularly 'fakes' orgasm to please her mate," because she is "not solving their sexual problem but preventing it from being solved." Why should she fake joy and lust in the front hallway, but not in the bedroom? Because she is a new woman, buffetting between liberation and subservience.


Obviously New Woman's advertisers realize the reader's fantasies, because over one-third of the ads are for beauty, fashion, and general man-catching aids; including make-up kits, jewelry, clubs, and individually prepared Natal Horoscopes which "can bring you love, romance, and improve your Life." The other ads sell cigarettes (for the independent woman look), convenient contraceptives (for the independent woman who proves her liberation through "spontaneity"), and liquid paper (for the independent secretary). To be fair, they also advertise insurance, liquor, and New Woman subscriptions.


The new woman herself is a female without well-defined feminist or anti-feminist convictions. Appearances are all that count for her. If she seems independent, self-confident, and well-adjusted, that serves her purposes just as well as if she really were. If she says she is liberated, she is, and with that out of the way, she is free to continue chasing men, youth, and beauty with unabated ardor. The happy ending she dreams of could be Cinderella's - she wants to find a man who will love her and take her away from her forced self-reliance. She can go it alone if she must, but she'd really rather not. Hence she is willing to play with her face, clothes, personality, and values to snag a man. Labeling herself as liberated is just another ploy - maybe if she flirts with independence as well as men, they will find her more attractive.


"The more you realize that there is more to life than men - the more men you will have in your life," the article "So You Want to Meet Men" explains. Since meeting men is the object of the article to begin with, clearly the "more to life" is insignificant once the new woman has attained her goal and secured a male.


So, come on, new woman. Prove yourself - desirable. Show us what you've got - up front. Come out of the closet - into the bedroom. And burn your bra - he'll think that's cute.

Lenore Skenazy writes for the Yale Daily News.


**Yalies Don't Get V.D.**
**Author: Anonymous**
**Page number(s): 11-12**

Christmas morning and ... pus. I stare down at myself in horror thinking No it can't be. Urination isn't painful, thank God for that. But after breakfast, after we've unwrapped our presents, after church (Church? What am I doing in church, loathful sinner, bringing my disease to this house of God? How many others here have it too? And the priest, has he ever had it?), it is painful.


But it can't be, I've only been seeing one person. It's an infection, just a urinary infection, and I pore over my mother's nursing books searching for some kind of clue - big words that I don't understand and they all look worse than the clap.


No doctor, and DUH is two hundred miles away. It would be so easy if I were home at Yale. (Home? I am home, and it's not Yale.) My pediatrician shook hands good-bye when he gave me my college physical. Now I realize why pediatricians are pediatricians; they can't deal with adult problems. Tell my parents? No. A V.D. clinic? But it's not V.D. And if it is, it can wait. Oh, but it hurts when I go to the bathroom and I never know what direction it's going to come out. Mop it up with toilet paper. (They're going to wonder why it's going so fast.) Another piece - fold it in half and put it in my pants so they don't get stained.


Baby brother's two years old and he charges at me on the yellow horse with the blue wheels. Don't touch him, don't let him get near you. Babies get it in their eyes and go blind. (Then there was the guy who kissed his children good-bye when he went to work and they all got syphilis. Toddlers with oozing chancres on their innocent lips.) He calls me "P." "P," ploy. Sorry, "P" can't play; don't cry, play with Ba-ba.


What to do? Two days go by and I do absolutely nothing. But the pus is turning color, from a pure friendly white to an evil, ominous beige-yellow that dries to the color of the beige stripe (next to the green and the red) in the Gucci insignia. I am scared. I have to talk to someone.


My father always complains that I never talk to him, which is true. He is a space-scientist, and I am an English major. He used to take me to planetariums when I wanted to go to the movies. I interrupt his reading after dinner. "Dad, can I talk to you?" He looks up from his book and his heart is touched ... In private. He follows me upstairs to my bedroom. This is going to be an event - communication.


It is a disappointing event for both of us. "Have you been sleeping with unclean women?" he asks. He doesn't know anything about V.D. He doesn't ask to see it. (I wonder whose is bigger?) He wants me to visit my pediatrician. I have younger brothers and sisters who still see him, and I don't want to disgrace the family. "I think you should ask your mother," he suggests. "Maybe she can set up an appointment with one of the doctors at the hospital. Or I could take you to the emergency room at the Medical Center." Mother is called in and at this point I don't care who knows. I just want help. We decide on the emergency room. Before I leave my mother assures me, "I just want you to know that gonorrhea can be transmitted by toilet seats. It's not just an old wives' tale. They taught us in training."


At the hospital, I have to fill out forms; the nurse has to fill out forms. "Religion?" she asks. I pause a moment, measuring principles and priorities, but this is no time for a religious crisis. "Catholic." I sneak a glance at my father. He winks broadly.


We are separated and I am led through a maze of hallways. I try to concentrate so that I don't look like a lost jerk on my way out. The nurse brings me to a large room sectioned off by curtains and points to a bed in one of the sections. "Someone will be with you."


I am alone for quite a while. There is something wrong about the man behind the curtain across from me. I can't see most of his body, just the edge and the bottom of the bed. But there is something strange about the way his hand rests on the side of the bed. The woman next to me has a hernia. The doctor explains, "When you fell down the stairs, a piece of your intestine got pushed through your diaphragm ... ."


A big black nurse comes into my section with a little gadget. It is a digital thermometer. I get to watch the lighted numbers mount higher and higher until they reach 101. The nurse takes my blood pressure. She looks at the dial and laughs. "Scared, huh? Don't worry, we don't bite here." She disappears.


There are doctors gathered around a station outside. What the hell are they doing? Why don't they come see me? Another doctor joins them. They are laughing.


"Where is he?"


They point to the curtain across from me. The doctor looks in. "My God." He looks away ... "What is the nature of his addiction?"


"Morphine."


The doctor looks again. "Well, you can tell he's a sterling citizen by the protuberance of his mandible."


Laughter. "What happened to him?"


"We don't know. Either he was hit by a truck or someone shot his stomach full of aluminum bullets. Or he ate them." More laughter.


The addict's hand comes alive. It swings wildly, thrashing through the air, then dies. The doctors didn't see. One goes in and leans over the bed. False friendliness. "Hi! How 'ya doin'? Oh, I see. Gee, that's too bad."


The doctors are all laughing. They leave and the hand is thrashing again. I suddenly realize what's wrong. The hand is too close to the bottom of the bed, and the sheets are gathered strangely. The addict has no legs. The doctors are still laughing.


Finally a doctor comes to see me. I tell him my problem. My voice is choked.


"Have you had sexual congress recently?" His accent is thick and strange.


"Yes."


"When was the last time?"


The last day at school, before she left to go home. Let's see, that would be ... "Eight days ago."


"I see. Let's have a look ... Uh-huh."


Before he touches it, he puts on thin rubber-gloves from a roll hanging on the wall. They look like five-fingered condoms. I am hurt. Leper. He feels around.


"This is a venereal disease," he announces.


Injury to insult. I object. "I'm sure it's not. It must be something else." Sure kid. Something else. Your penis just has a bad cold, that's all.


"We see this all the time. It's very common."


I am not common. I go to Yale.


The doctor has a Q-tip. Oh my God, what is he going to do with that? "I have to take a sample." I don't believe it. It won't fit! I prepare for intense pain. The head of the swab disappears, but I don't feel a thing.


"Now we'll take a blood test to see if you have syphilis, too. It won't hurt."


It does. The girl who gave me a blood test at Yale was a cold bitch, but when I exclaimed, "That was painless!" she smiled proudly and said, "Thank-you."


"We will give you treatment tonight, and it will be all over." The doctor exits, and I wait. Alone.


About fifteen minutes later a young nurse comes in. Slim, good-looking, jet-black hair, trying very hard not to laugh uncontrollably. She hands me two yellow pills ... "You take these first, then the shots." She exits.


She returns later with two large hypodermic needles, each containing about a quart of penicillin ... "Lower your pants to your hips and turn over."


"You've got to be kidding."


"No. I'm not."


I stand up and lower my pants, then struggle to get back onto the table. It is difficult.


"Lie flat on your stomach if you can. It'll hurt less."


Of course I can. You think you've given me an erection or something? Don't flatter yourself.


The first needle stabs. The pain is unbearable and I stifle a yell into the sheets.


"Relax. Relax the muscle. You're making it worse."


I try. The nurse is pushing hard. It feels like she's twisting the needle. There is a plopping sound. Air in my muscle? The nurse giggles. She pulls out the empty tube.


"Oh. I forgot to ask. Are you allergic to penicillin?"


"You're a real riot, you know that?"


She stabs me again, the other cheek. Punishment. There are tears in my eyes.


When it's over, I pull up my pants. "O.K., you can go."


Go? But no one's told me anything. I thought they asked questions, tried to take names ... But ... but ... "I want to see the doctor."


She frowns ... "He's outside." There'll be no privacy.


I walk through the curtain. The room is filled with people. Patients, relatives, doctors, police, nurses. They all look at me. They all know. They smirk and nod to each other.


I find my doctor. He is busy filling out forms. He seems annoyed, that I'm bothering him.


"But you haven't told me anything. You have to tell me something."


"What do you want to know?"


"Can it be something else? It has to be something else."


The doctor stalls. "There are some things. About four or five, but they're very rare."


"But you don't understand. You see, I'm seeing one person."


"It only takes once ...


Goddamn foreigner. He doesn't understand what I'm trying to say. Can't even speak English. Why the hell don't they stay in their own fucking countries instead of coming here, taking up space in our medical schools, our hospitals. Won't even go back like he's supposed to. Too much


continued to page 15.


**Scenes**
**Author: Dick Pershun**
**Page number(s): 12**

It is the middle of autumn in Hempstead Heath. An old man seated between a grey bomber hat and a park bench contemplates a father and son. They - both wearing khaki knickers and knee socks - are progressing slowly through a light underbrush which they fight through and away with the aid of canes, warped legs of wood which the trees have shed in a recent wind. A black thrush rushes whistling through the branches of a tree that has turned purple with the late heat of the season. The leaves flutter, as if the bird's wings had power to set them in motion. The man seated on the bench notes to himself that the color of the leaves, a wine color, is something which is arrived at only after many months and then endures only briefly for the glint of several afternoons.


The black of the bird is a spectacular and darkening shadow against the color of the leaves. The man thinks he will paint the scene when he has returned to his Studio and feels the strength. He thinks about what he shall do with the father and son, must analyze their character and relationship, pin them down with perfect clarity beneath the scudding clouds. The rest is murky enough, he thinks, the human element must be crisp, distinct.


Using their canes the father and son poke about the roots of a knotted oak tree. The son thrashes at the leathery bark trying to cut to the green blood of the wood which he wishes to expose underneath. He slashes his weapon like a scythe-sledge-sword. His father taps at the tree trunk huge around without any hurt, to pass the time. They do not talk. The father's sound is a steady breathing beating, the son's a furious wracking, young and uneven. Gesturing with one arm up and pointed forward, the man on the bench interprets the two figures as foresters chopping trees ... "A Corot," the man says, "and the trees will be taller and the air thicker and more substantial."


The son kicks at the caked ground with the heel of his shoe. He manages to dislodge a smooth stone, wet with the dewy clay underneath. He measures it in his palm, fixing it into the sling of his index finger, and heaves it - a slicing spinning saucer - into the bloom of the tree in which the thrush has been chattering. The boy jumps up gleefully with the crack of the stone against the first bough, and then its sound as it ricochets thuds through the tree like the banged pipes of a wooden organ. The father watches in an attitude of condonement, following the slice of the rock as if it were an extension of his son's arm. The man on the bench admires the admiration of the father. "This is the representation of love," flashes the man to himself in images of harmony: streaked shades of autumn in the boy's burnt-blond hair firing the orange brown in his father's. There is a coordination. The painter sees it and notes it and finds himself raising his hands and poising them, paletteless, in the grey air. He conducts the song of the thrush.


The father and son walk through the shaggy grass of the open spaces. The man on the bench considers whether they are returning or departing. He considers the angle at which he sees them - oblique, never scheduled for a meeting. He considers it otherwise, and experiments with the other possibilities - flipping the mental image of their bodies from one side to the other, playing with their embodiment as if turning over a negative or inverting a mirror. The man on the bench translates the father and son countless spaces forward, then rewinds them back to their original position; next he re-aligns their direction in the grass, shifting them over several degrees. Finally, he flips them over entirely: they are standing on their heads.


The man on the bench blinks and the father and son are both walking on their feet, but he notices that they are limping, that both of them are dragging the same foot, plumping it down unsmartly. "No wonder the canes," he says to himself and changes the shape of the wood, straightens it, varnishes it, and hooks the handle around to make it easier to clasp. The father and son are suddenly changing their direction, walking now unquestionably straight for the man on the bench; yet they do not see him.


The father and son are headed dead straight for the man on the bench. In the same instant as the painting of his mind registers the change in their direction, he sees the collision, the collision between himself, the man on the bench, and the father and son. He shudders and protects his hands in the cradle of his chest. He will not have them harmed. Now he notices that the father and son both wear identical sunglasses, ugly black plastic. They are the black-eye covering kind, he thinks to himself, no one wears them unless there is a wrong. The sky is the white color of dirty snow. If the sun shone it would be diluted to one dimension ... "They are blind," the man on the bench realizes, "and those are not bits of wood, but canes."


The man on the bench tries to uncross his legs. The upper leg won't unlock and he is stuck in that seated position while father and son toss away into a bush the pieces of wood they have been carrying in their hands and scamper lithely across the field. They are not even wearing glasses.


The man on the bench waits for his nurse to come to pull his legs apart and wheel him home. She has his wheel chair.

Dick Pershun keeps his fun.



**Ask: Dear Eva**
**Author: Not Dumb**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Dear Eva, 
I went to the Calhoun Happy Hour 
last week, where you arink cham-
pagne and it tastes just like coca-cola. 
Then this girl walked up to me and 
she asked me to dance! Well, I'm not 
the world's most passionate guy, but 
when I looked in her eye, I almost 
fell. She picked me up and sat me on 
her knee, and said, "Little b<ty, would 
you come on, please?" Well, I'm not 
the world's most physical ·guy, but 
when she squeezed me tight, she 
nearly broke my spine. (I left home 
just a week before, and I never ever 
kissed a woman before.) Well, I'm not 
the world's most masculine man, but I 
know I'm a man and I'm glad I'm a 
man, unlike some people I might 
mention. Just one thing confuses me: 
I'm not dumb but I can't understand 
why she walked like a woman and 
talked like a man? 
-
Not Dumb 

Dear Not, 
What is this, an epidemic? Stop 
worrying and give yourself over to 
absolute pleasure, as Kierkegaard 
wrote in Fear and Trembling in !.As 
Vegas. AND I WOULD APPRECI-
ATE IT VERY MUCH IF PER-
VERTS STOPPED WRITING TO 
ME! 


**Name Withheld: Dear Eva**
**Author: Name Withheld**

My husband batters me, my 
daughters look like Shelley Duvall, 
my sons are homosexuals or worse. It 
has been snowing since mid-June, the 
dog has eaten the cat, and the bill 
collector's beating at the door. (Our 
life savings were invested in Flavour-
Aide and the Midi.) On top of all 
that, I didn't even make The New 
York Times' " Hundred Neediest 
Cases." Quoi faire? 
Name Withheld 

Dear Name, 
We must not blame others for our 
own inadequacies, Name. You should 
look inward, speak to your astrologer, 
and take up smoking unfiltered 
Camels. 


**Official Memo**
**Author: A. Bartlett G.**

Official Memo: 
I've read every column you've ever 
published and I think you're doing a 
swell job. For the life of me, I can't 
see why anyone would want to 
criticize Eva. 
A. Bartlett G. 


**Yale Hooker Service**
**Author: Dino, Calhoun '81**

I was sittin' in my truck outside of 
Berkeley College, just seJling some 
firewood, and I thought up a great 
way to make some bucks. Why not 
start a Yale Hooker Service? It could 
go on the Bursar's Bill as Y.H.S. and 
serve "handfulls" and "mouthfulls," in 
the grand old tradition of the 
Calhoun Cabaret. Then folks like me 
wouldn't end up groanin' over our 
cornflakes on Sunday mornings. Y'all 
interested? 
Dino, Calhoun '81 
[vu 
P.S. Don't want this to sound SEXIST 
or anything. 

Dear Dino, 
It's always gratifying to hear from 
students who really want to contribute 
something to the community. I'm sure 
you could get backing from your 
college's social committee. If not, you 
should try to organize it through Mrs. 
Rosen at Mental Hygiene or through 
Christ Church. Keep me posted on 
your progress! 


**A Million Dollar Baby**
**Author: Anonymous, Andover '76**

I found a million dollar baby in a 
five-and-ten-cent store, but she won't 
give me the time of day! I took her to 
see Fritz Lang's Salamanders in 
Salamanca (1943) at the Lincoln, but 
she still insisted we keep "three feet 
on the floor" when we got back to her 
apartment. I feel like I'm squinting at 
a mirage -
if mutton at Mory's 
doesn't do the trick, I'll kill myself! 
Anonymous, Andover '76 

Dear Anon, 
As Walter R . Cove and Jeannette 
F. Tudor's Sex Roles and Mental 
Illness so succinctly expressed it, 
"although not a form of mental 
illness, suicide reflects a high degree 
of mental distress." Therefore, don't 
do it. You have overlooked the Yalie's 
usual seduction site, the top floor of 
Connecticut Hall. You might also try 
giving her a pineapple. If all else fails, 
fall down and die before her; thus 
dying live, and living do adore her. 


**Moo!**
**Author: La Vache Qui Rit;**

Moo! 
La Vache Qui Rit; 
Moo to you too. Cherchez La 
Vache! 


**Hester P.: Dear Eva**
**Author: Hester P.**

I live in a small and provincial New 
England town. I am an outcast, a 
pariah, a marked woman. Censurious 
townfolk ostracize me, hypocritical 
clergymen insult me, I wear a mark of 
shame always. All because I don't 
conform! Can you help me? 
Hester P. 

Dear Hester, 
Believe me, I know just how you 
feel. But don't be discouraged. Take 
heed of the immortal words of 
Howard Parish: "It is from number-
less diverse acts of courage and belief 
that human history is shaped. Each 
time a man stands up for an ideal, or 
strikes out against injustice, .or acts to 
improve the lot of others, he sends a 
tiny ripple of hope; and, crossing each 
other from a mimon different centers 
of energy and daring, those ripples 
build a current which can sweep down 
the mightiest walls of oppression and 
resistance."' Amen. 

**Esperance**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 15**

the physical routine no longer made 
me ache in the early morning. 
Christmas came. It was I ()40 on 
Christmas day, and I thought of the 
Northeast, buried in white. 
On Christmas night, the moon was 
full and the stars were shining 
brilliantly. As always, the quietness 
sent quivers up my back. Gazing at 
the southern hemisphere night lights 
and walking along the dirt road which 
boundaried the homestead, it seemed 
as if Esperance was the only place on 
earth. Indiana, Pa.? How could I 
conjure more than a thin, two-
dimensional image? College was 
someplace my friends were "going to." 
"Where are you going this fall, Ed?" 
"Oh, I don't know," was my answer 
all summer. Pause. "Oh," said the 
questioner. Now I was in Australia, 
learning about rams and ewes, horses 
and cows, dust and flies, stars and 
stretching beaches. 
Just as summer began to fade I got 
ready to leave. By this time, I was the 
only jack left. I packed my bags and 
Greg drove me to Esperance. I wasn't 
entirely reluctant or excited. 
I was eager to travel and see other 
parts of Australia and yet, I enjoyed 
being a part of the farm's rhythm. I 
walked along the beach one more 
time, wondering how much the days 
at Yerritop Creek Station had 
changed me. "It'll make a man out of 
you!" Man-boy, maybe. I picked up 
my duffel bag and hustled to the one-
room bus station. I hopped on, took a 
last look, and began the slow grind to 
Perth. 


continued from page I I 
money here. Forget about the poor 
slobs at home. 
.. I am seeing one girl. We've been 
having a steady relationship. If I have 
V.D. that would mean she's been 
cheating!" 
The doctor looks at me blankly. 
"Well, I can't say anything about 
that." 
That bitch. That goddamn bitch! 
Couldn't do without it for a week 
while I studied for finals. Couldn't 
give a guy a fucking break. I'm not 
even going to tell her. I'm going to let 
her find out for herself. And if she 
doesn't (the symptoms often go 
undetected in women), then I'll stand 
by silently as it eats out her tubes and 
ovaries, leaving her as sterile and 
barren as her conscience. 
"You haven't even told me ... 
Doctor. You haven't even told me 
how long it takes. I mean, how long 
before I can have sex again?" 
He looks at me disdainfully. So is 
that what you're worried about? "Two 
weeks." 
"And what if it is something else? 
How will I know?" 
"If it's something else the penicillin 
will kill it. You can call back if you 
want and find out the test results. Call 
the operator and ask for the V.D. 
clinic." 
Not too loud. Everyone heard that 
last one. I get up and walk down the 
long corridor, past the multitudes of 
smirking eavesdroppers, head held 
high, proud. Oh, I wish I'd bought 
one of those jackets that say Yale on 
them like my ~other kept telling me 
to. Look at that big fat cop with the 
stupid grin. Walk up to him and say 
loudly Don't worry I didn't tell them I 
got it from you. Head for the door. 
Oh God, don't let pte trip . 
When I get home, I can't keep my 
mouth shut. "They tried to tell me I 
have V.D.," I cry, hurt and innocent. 
"It was so degrading, so humiliating." 
When I undressed for bed, there 
were two large blood stains in the seat 
of my underpants. 
I didn't sleep at all that night. 
Nightmare visions of the man with no 
legs, thrashing his arm in angry 
frustration. I hate doctors. I hate 
medicine. I bate doctors. Franken-
steins, all of them. My old roommate 
wants to be a doctor. Ob John, John, 
when you are, avenge these atrocities. 
Become the Me~siah of medicine. I 
am sorry, I am so sorry for that night 
when I told you to pack it in, that 
you didn't have what it takes. 
Remember you told me how much 
you liked Camelot? I saw it on T.V. 
last night and now I understand. It is 
my only comfort in this tear-stained 
night. There simply is not a more 
congenial spot for happy-ever-aftering 
t.'1an here in Camelot. Run, boy! 
Ruuuuuuunnnnnn! 
In the morning, at breakfast, 
Mother asks, "How is your problem'! 
Did it go away?" 
"Yes it did, as a matter of fact. It 
fell off." 
Grandmother drops her teacup, but 
Mother is sneaking a laugh behind 
her napkin. 
A week later I call for the test 
results. I ask for the V.D. clinic and 
15 
. _they connect m~ with Family 
Planning. When I call back agaan they 
connect me with another outside 
caller who is trying to reach Family 
Planning. A third call gets me Family 
Planning, and they inform me that the 
hospital doesn't have a V.D. clinic. I 
am advised to call emergency. They 
are busy in the emergency room and 
they want me to call back at four 
o'clock. 
"I won't be here at four o'clock. 
I've got to catch a train back to 
school in half an hour." 
"Well, can you wait a few minutes, 
and rn call you back." 
When she calls back, her voice is 
the voice that they use to inform a 
father that his wife has given birth to 
a set of twins. 
"P __ , I have your test results. 
Negative. Congratulations." 
••Negative!" I run through the 
house shouting. Down the stairs. 
••Negative!" I cry. "NEGATIVE! 
NEGATIVE! NEGATIVE!" 
It is joy. It is rebirth. It is baptism. 
Peter Pokalsky wishes to remain 
anonymous. 



**Title:  Advertisement: Texas Instruments Programmable Calculators**
**Author: Texas Instruments**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
..----------------------------
276 York Street 
Texas Instruments 
introduces the new 
generation of 
programmable calculators. 
New Haven, Connecticut 06511


**Title: Advertisement: Athlete's Foot**
**Author: Athlete's Foot**


N 
knows athletes 
better than the Athlete's Foot. 
The\··n· tht· Clas~' of·-;-;, or ;m\· otht·r d;tss in tht· 
;tthll'ti~· footwt·;u· I from tennis. to running. to purely 
inmlecti;ttt· future. Tht· rl'asons fo;. tilt' su~·n·~s of 
social pursuit~) an· l·t·t1ainly siJ.,.rrlif1l·d. .-\nd. who 
.-\thlett'\ Foot ~ton·s arl' too nulllt'rous to tP~:ntion in 
\U>Uid kno\\. mon· about thl' athlete's foot th<m Tlw 
• 
thi~ nHlfinl'd sp;tt't•. But our 
. \thldl' ·~ Foot~ Sn1all wondl'r. ollt't• people Sl'l' 
Th Athlete S ~c M l st yl< ·s of f;u no<h-n;un. · 
. \ t hil'll' · ~ F ""' f, • •t "'' · ar. t h .. y · n · it chin>( t" \\'l'ar them. 
e 
Foot. A<tidas - !\l ikl· - :'\ l'\\' Balalll'l' - c 011\'t'I"Sl' -- B n K >k s - E tonic - Pwna 
Locations: Chapel Squarl' !\lall. ~t.'\\. lla\·en. C'l': \\'t•stfall ~la ll. Fannin!-.'1<>n. CT 

