Publication date: December 6, 1996
Volume: 29
Issue number: 3


**Position: Name(s)**
Publisher: Audrey Leibovich
Editor-in-Chief: Hillary Margolis
Managing Editors: Karen Jacobson, Gabriel Snyder
Business Manager: Dan Murphy
Designer: Alec Bemis
Production Manager: John Bullock
Photography Editor: Marisa Galvez
Associate Publisher: Min Chen
Associate Editor: Joel Burges
Associate Production Manager: Lainie Rutkow
Research Director: Dana Goodyear
Circulation and Subscription Manager: Sara Harkavy


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**

FEATURES
They Work Hard for Their Money - Yuki Noguchi
A Tale of Two Goodyears - Dana Goodyear
The Mental Hygiene Machine - Hillary Margolis
Missing: Minority Weekend - Loren Brody

STANDARDS
From Our Perspective: Broadway, Inc.
Points of Departure
Between the Vines: Lighting the Past - Daphna Renan
Endnote: Vision 2000 - Alec Bemis


**Title: They Work Hard for Their Money**
**Author: Yuki Noguchi**
**Page number(s): 7**

Out to make some fast cash, some Yale students soon discover that donating sperm is not your ordinary work-study job.


**Title: A Tale of Two Goodyears**
**Author: Dana Goodyear**
**Page number(s): 10**

Although Charles Goodyear's name is embossed on millions of tires, his invention of vulcanized rubber could not save him from debtor's prison.


**Title: The Mental Hygiene Machine**
**Author: Hillary Margolis**
**Page number(s): 14**

Students reveal the obstacles they face when undergoing the bureaucratic process of psychotherapy through University Health Services.


**Title: Missing: Minority Weekend**
**Author: Loren Brody**
**Page number(s): 21**

The elimination of minority weekend causes Yale's African American community to worry about how it will draw future freshmen.


**Title: From Our Perspective: Broadway, Inc.**
**Author:  (Not specified)**
**Page number(s): 4**


**Title: Points of Departure**
**Page number(s): 5**


**Title: Between the Vines: Lighting the Past**
**Author: Daphna Renan**
**Page number(s): 18**


**Title: Endnote: Vision 2000**
**Author: Alec Bemis**
**Page number(s): 23**

**STYLE**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
STYLE 
fashion. style. fabric. texture. color. 
imagination. relaxed. fashion. style. 
fabric. texture. 
color. imagination. 
relaxed . fashion. style. fabric. 
texture. color. imagination. relaxed. 
~ 
1 020 Chapel Street New Hoven 865-2314 
~~~ "-»-- · • -'oflt~~ ~~~ 


**Literary Yangling**
**Author: Dan Murphy**
**Page number(s): 5**

With its small failures and great 
successes, patient cadences and frantic 
rushes, fishing lends itself to casual 
metaphors. Anyone who's seen A River 
Runs Through It knows that fishing is 
supposed to be a lot like life. But some 
skeptics may have difficulty seeing the 
connection between pulling a fish out of 
water and human existence. 

Last spring, when James Prosek (BR 
'97) and Joe Furia (PC '00) conceived the 
idea of a fishing journal at Yale, they 
wanted to capture the spiritual quality of 
fishing without lapsing into cliches. At the 
time, Furia was a high school senior 
visiting Yale as a pre-frosh. His cousin, 
Franny Furia (BR '97), put him in touch 
with Prosek, aware of their mutual passion 
for fishing. During one of the 
classes Furia visited, Prosek 
passed Furia a note asking, 
"What do you think of starting 
a literary fishing journal at 
Yale?" 

The end result of that piece 
of scrap paper is the Yale 
Anglers' journa4 a collection of 
fourteen short essays focused on 
angling. With some help from 
psychology professor Nelson 
Donnegan, Furia and Prosek 
produce and edit the journal, 
which brings together an 
impressive range of amateur 
angler-au tho rs-i ncludi ng 
former Attorney General Elliot 
Richardson, a family friend of 
Furia. Furia and Donnegan 
each wrote essays and Aaron 
Kennon (CC '97) contributed a 
piece, but most of the authors 
are friends of Furia or Prosek 
from outside of Yale-what 
Prosek calls "non-Yanglers." 

The journal also contains 
excerpted sections from two 
recent books about fishing: 
Wade a Little Duper, Dear and 
DECEMBER 6, 1996 
A Different Angle. Furia did most of the 
leg-work for the journal, completing the 
entire journal before he carne to Yale for his 
freshman year. He arranged the excerpts 
with the publishing companies, worked on 
the editing process with the authors, 
arranged for Kinko's to print the journal, 
and did all the graphic and layout work. 

Furia says all of the pieces are about 
"life, told through fishing" and the 
editorial aspect of the magazine succeeds in 
that focus. The pieces are all short (the 
longest runs about 2,000 words), each one 
exploring a particular theme or element 
involved in angling. Each essay is 
accompanied by a graphic that corresponds 
roughly to the piece's theme. The graphics 
are gleaned from fishing books that are 
over 70 years old, to avoid copyright laws. 

While the antiquated look of the graphics 
is in keeping with the classical feel of the 
journal itself, more recent pictures might 
lend the journal a more exciting feel. 

The intended audience for the journal 
is mostly Yale alumni and other anglers 
outside of New Haven, rather than current 
Yalies. While the journal is available at the 
Co-op, most of the initial print run of 500 
will hopefully be distributed through the 
mail to interested anglers. If all goes well, 
contributions from these readers will help 
finance future editions of the journal and 
reimburse Furia, Prosek, and Donnegan for 
their backing of the first issue. 

Right now Furia and Prosek plan to 
publish the journal semi-annually. Their 
wish-list of possible contributors for this 
spring includes New York Times editorial 
page editor Howell Raines and George 
Bush (DC '48) . With Prosek set to 
graduate in the spring, the 
journal is seeking more Yalies 
with a passion for fishing and a 
literary bent. In his introductory 
note at the beginning of the 
journal, Prosek presents his 
ultimate utopian goals for the 
journal and for angling at Yale: a 
Yale Angling Library and a trout 
scream running through the 
Branford courtyard. After 
reading the journal, these 
ventures begin to seem pretty 
worthwhile. 
-Dan Murphy 



**The Bagel Boom's Beginnings**
**Author: Caroline Adams**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

The bagel is a staple in the 
lives of many Americans. With 
its sidekick cream cheese, the 
bagel has been combined with 
almost every variety of fruit, 
vegetable, and meat to claim its > 
ground as an all-American; 
favorite. 

However, the bagel was not ~ 
an American creation. Derived ~ 
from 
the Austrian 
word£ 
"beugel," meaning "stirrup," the ~ 
I I 

original bagel was open at the top like a 
horseshoe. Around the turn of the century, 
it became rounded into the traditional 
donut shape in Eastern Europe. 

The history of the bagel as we know it 
typifies an American success story. And one 
bagel in par~i cular, the Lender's Bagel, 
embodies the dream of Harry Lender. His 
bagel business began in New Haven more 
than 60 years ago. 

A Polish immigrant, Lender arrived in 
this country alone in 1927 with only his 
skills as a baker. The bagel, which had 
arrived before him, was already popular 
among Jewish communities in New 
England. After spending a few years in 
New Jersey, Lender paid $600 for a bread 
bakery on Oak Street, the hub of New 
Haven's Jewish population. He sold bagels 
and other products wholesale. 

Lender's bagel business took off when 
he moved to Baldwin S~reet in New Haven, 
where he made bagels daily in the back 
yard of his home. The business soon 
expanded, taking over the adjacent yard, 
while his family over-flowed into the 
neighboring house. 

Murray, the third Lender child, recalls 
how his entire family was involved rn 
bagel-making. As Murray grew, his bagel 
duties expanded. He began as the official 
bagel counter and then was promoted to 
boiling them. Eventually, Murray was 
allowed to shape the bagels, a task which 
required six to nine months of training. 
After finally graduating to baking, he and 
his brother Marvin took over the family 
business. 

6 
In the 1960s, Lender's Bagels achieved 
its modern fame. For the first time, 
bagels were packaged in poly-
ethylene bags and shipped to 
supermarkets across the country. 
Different flavors-
onion, pumpernickel, 
and 
garlic-
were 
introduced. The year 
1962 saw the 
first bagel-a 
Lender's-
shaped by an 
automated machine in 
New Haven. These advances meant that 
every American nationwide had access to a 
Lender's Bagel. The 'bagel boom' was born 
and Lender's Bagels was at the forefront. 

The business continued to expand, so the 
Lender brothers moved their bakery into 
two New Haven factories, which still 
continue to crank out fresh bagels. Despite 
competition from the rising class of 
sophisticated bagel bars, the Lender's Bagel 
flourishes as an American tradition. 
-Caroline Adams 



**To Walk a Mile in Another Man's Shoes**
**Author: Catherine 0/mder**
**Page number(s): 6**

"There's not too much to tell," says 
Frank Purpora from behind a dusty 
showcase filled with dented cartons of shoe 
laces, responding to niy request to discuS's 
his "chariry work." 

Purpora points me toward a typed letter 
tacked to the store wall among posters 
advertising various New Haven communiry 
events. 

Written by the program coordinator at 
the New Haven Homeless Resource Center, 
the letter reads: 

"Thank you so much for the rescue of 
our program participant who had no shoes 
fit to wear on his feet ... Just the other day, 
the young man walked inside the Resource 
Center with i: happy smile on his face. He 
looked down at his feet, shook his legs, as if 
to start dancing. He was so proud of 
wearing newer shoes and re-thanked me for 
bringing him to your shop." 

Every so often, Purpora says, someone 
who is down on his luck will come into the 
shop looking for an old pair of shoes. If 
Purpora happens to have a pair of 
unclaimed shoes in that person's size, he 
gives them away. 

Star Shoe Repair, across from the 
Shubert on College Street, is cluttered but 
clean. Leather bags of various shapes and 
sizes overlap on a rack behind the counter. 
Odors of leather and shoe 
polish give a pleasant, 
pungent bite to the air. The 
sound of a hammer against leather comes 
from the store's back room, punctuating 
Purpora's speech. 

A customer walks into the shop, and 
Purpora chats with him while filling his 
order. Now that classes have begun at Yale, 
he says, the shoes are tumbling in. He can 
hardly keep up with the business. 

The phone rings and Purpora asks 
Jimmy James, his lone assistant, to answer it. 
"There used to be five of us here," Purpora 
says. Now it is just James and himself. 
"We're doing the best we can. There's not 
too many fellas who want to go into the 
business. You've got to get your hands dirty." 

He smiles and shows his hands, which are 
calloused and smeared with black shoe 
polish. 

Many repair businesses like tailors and 
dry cleaners, Purpora says, amass a 
collection of forgotten properry. Although 
his claim tickets say customers must pick up 
their shoes within 30 days, Purpora's 
customers sometimes lose track of time or 
move away, leaving their belongings behind. 

Rather than discarding unclaimed shoes, 
Purpora tries "to do a good thing" by giving 
them away to a needy person. He estimates 
that he's distributed eight or ten pairs this 
year. 

It can be risky chariry to give old shoes 
away. Occasionally, a delinquent customer 
has shown up several months after he left his 
shoes, only to find that they are on someone 
else's feet. "I've got to be really careful to 
make sure I only give the really old ones 
away," Purpora says. 

Although Purpora does not usually seek 
out needy people, he gave his first pair of 
boots away 20 years ago to a woman he saw 
wearing a pair of Birkenstocks in the 
wintertime. Now, he says, the woman is in 
her late thirties, has a Ph.D., and is a regular 
customer. 

"I really didn't do it for publicity," 
Purpora says with a shy smile. As the old 
aphorism goes, happiness is a 
comfortable pair of shoes. 
-Catherine 0/mder 



**Title: Yale students discover that donating sperm is not.**
**Author: Yuki Noguchi**
**Page number(s): 7-9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Yale students discover that donating sperm is not. 
, . 
D 
uring his freshman and sophomore years, David made 40 
trips to the Sperm Physiology Lab at Yale Medical School 
to masturbate into a plastic cup. For most students, work-
study involves mundane tasks, but David, now a junior, veered 
from the beaten path of student employment: he donated sperm. 
"Donation," however, is a misnomer. At the end of the 12 to 15 
week "donating" process, he collected a check for $2,000. Two 
years later, he has probably fathered four or five children whom 
he'll never know. 

On his first visit, a doctor handed David a "specimen cup" and 
pointed to a drawer that contained a thick manila folder full of 
Pmthouse and Playboy magazines. Carrying his plastic cup and 
manila folder, David walked past labs and offices to the public 
bathroom at the end of the hallway. His journey was not a private 
one; eyes from neighboring offices and labs turned to watch him 
as though he were a sperm model strolling down the reproductive 
catwalk. 

The bathro.om was a little cramped, but nothing special. 
Certainly not conducive to fantasy. David walked in, locked the 
door, sat on the cold, impersonal toilet, and commenced his work. 
"It was miserable," he says, laughing nervously. "People kept 
knocking and I was like, 'C'mon, you know what I'm doing in 
here.' The forced environment makes it very impersonal, makes it 
a job and makes it ... truly difficult." 

Scott, who also donated sperm his freshman and sophomore 
years, found the initial experience disconcerting. "I was really 
nervous and uncomfortable, I felt disgusting and dirry and self-
conscious," Scott says. ''I'm not like a lot of guys who can just do 
it standing up or sitting on the toilet." So he took newspapers 
with him to the bathroom, lined the tiles, and laid on the floor. 
On his make-shift newspaper bed, Scott closed his eyes and 
transported himself into a world of fantasy. "I had to block 
everything out. Otherwise, it just completely turned me off. 
Completely," he says emphatically. Several times, just when he 
began to forget that he was lying on the cold floor of a laboratory 
bathroom, people would knock on the door or try to enter. "It 
would bring you back to realiry and you couldn't shout, 'Hey, I'm 
DECEMBER 6, 1996 
your ordinary work-study job . 
. 
== 
heir Money: 
donating, leave me alone!'" He'd have to start from scratch again. 

With experience, the process became less arduous. "It's almost 
like you're watching a movie of someone else doing this," Scott 
says. In retrospect, he finds the procedure humorous and surreal. 
"It's not like I don't have respect for human life or the whole 
process of fertilization, but partially I did it because it's funny. I 
mean, I'm a sperm donor," he laughs. "The end is kind of pleasant. 
When it's all over you have this heroic feeling, like, 'I did it.'" 

Scott was in and out of the miserable bathroom within five or 
ten minutes. If you calculate his earnings per hour, he made a 
killing. If you calculate by the sperm, he wasn't making much. But 
then, what are billions of sperm to a man in his sexual peak? 
Actually, donors do face sacrifices. They are re·quired to abstain 
the day before and the day of donation. Scott was not draconian 
about abstaining. "Whatever. I'm a teenage guy ... " 

Even so, David says, "It was the kind of job you hated, but it 
made no sense to quit. Each time I went in, I thought, 'Ugh, this 
stinks,' but each time I was getting $50 more, and that's a lot of 
money. So I stuck with it and finished my 'term' and now I'm 
$2,000 richer." 

r. Gabor Huszar's phone rings, the fax machine spits out 
pages, and colleagues come in to grab fertility journals. It 
comes as no surprise that his expertise· is in such high 
demand; he was one of the founding directors of Yale's fertility 
program in 1983, and he remains at the forefront of developments 
in reproductive treatment. Huszar says reproductive technology 
has been revolutionized in the last ten years, with new discoveries 
continually transforming the field. 

Donated sperm has always been in short supply, but in recent 
years the demand for sperm has increased, according to a 1994 
issue of Human Rtproduction. Huszar estimates that 150 students 
have participated in the program since its inception 13 years ago. 
In most cases, because the lab has only 40 samples of sperm from 
each donor, the actual number of children born per donor is less 
than five. The average hovers around 3.8. Most of Huszar's 
patients have partners who suffer from congenital disease, sperm 


--- Page 8 ---

•••• free money," Scott says with a laugh. "You 
have to work; it's a pain in the ass. Twice a 
week you have to go down there. It's 
degrading. I think sexual relations 
are a personal thing. This is 
ery mechanical, and 
not romantic." 

N
ong sperm banks, 
Yale's 
is 
unique, 
ccording to Huszar. 
is one of only a handful of 
in the U.S. that freezes its 
n sperm. In most cases sperm 
are large, impersonal, for-profit 
organizations that provide sperm in 
much the same way L.L. Bean provides 
clothes. Home pages advertising sperm 
donated sperm are used primarily for the 
fertility program and not merely for 
research, about half of the respondents lose 
interest, Huszar says. For the half that 
drops out immediately, the moral issue of 
fathering genetic children seems far more 
complicated than donating sperm for 
research purposes. 

malformation, or have 
banks even appear on the Internet. 
Those who remain interested after 
Huszar's debriefing undergo an initial test 
for high sperm concentration and motility. 
Additionally, their sperm must withstand 
freezing and thawing because the sperm is 
cryogenically preserved. The lab then runs 
blood tests on potential donors, testing for 
AIDS and other diseases and disorders. 
Overall, the screening process is arduous 
for potential donors and expensive for the 
lab. 

vasectomies during previous 
"Essentially, this has become an 
marriages. Other patients want 
industry where you have major freezing 1 
eff tried on rwo different occasions to 
become single mothers. 
·laboratories," Huszar explains. "They have 
participate in the program and was 
Helping infertile couples is important 
nation-wide networks to collect sperm 
rejected both times. He had to give 
to students, but only second to financial 
from men, and you go to a doctor if you 
tial sperm samples to determine 
payoffs. "You get $50 for one time. I 
need the treatment, and the doctor orders 
whether he had high enough levels of 
mean, I've worked other jobs as a 
the sperm in." Yale keeps its operation 
sperm concentration or, in his words, 
construction worker, a garbage ··------------------------- "i.iber-sperm." "Basically, they 
man, a waiter, and I know how A doctor handed David a II specimen cup" 
told me I was a healthy boy, I just 
much $50 is for someone with 
didn't have quite the sperm count 
my earning potential," Scott 
and pointed to a drawer that contained 
that they needed;" Jeff says. Only 
says. 
a thick manila folder full of Penthouse 
a small percentage of men have 
David, too, says the $2,000 
sperm levels high enough to 
reward loomed large in his 
and Playboy magazines. 
satisfy the requirements of the 
decision. "It's not like you're 
program, so Jeff laid concerns 
donating your body to science for an 
small, personal, and non-profit. Keeping 
about his reproductive health to rest. 
altruistic cause. I think the money issue is 
the donation and treatment process in a 
"I referred about eight people," David 
always there," he says. "I think that if a 
tight loop provides patients with 
says. But all eight were rejected after their 
family is responsible enough and caring 
personalized care, says Huszar. Although 
initial sperm test. For his friends, being 
enough to go to the effort [of finding a 
medical journals often recognize Yale's 
rejected did not seem to be a 
donor], I wouldn't mind being the genetic 
fertility program for its excellence, the lab 
psychologically emasculating experience. 
father for someone else's child. When you 
has no intention of using its reputation to 
"Once you're in the billions of sperm it's 
ask foster children who their parents are, 
expand into a large commercial operation. 
no big deal. I think it bothered them more 
they don't say, 'my genetic parents.' The 
As the mastermind of the program, 
that they were out 2,000 bucks." 
father and mother are the people who raise 
Huszar's subjective judgment plays a large 
According to Huszar, about 50 to 60 
them.'' 
role in donor screening and selection. His 
percent of the initial donors are accepted 
According to Jeff, if a moral issue 
only prerequisite is that sperm donors are 
into the program. Physical attributes are 
exists, it lies within the structure of the 
college students. He limits donors to this 
not the only factors in Huszar's decision to 
program. "Offering $2,000 to a student 
group because it is an easily classifiable 
accept or reject a donor; Huszar takes the 
could be considered financially coercive," 
category and because, he says, this group is 
donor's character and personality traits 
he says. "I mean, if I wanted to do 
at lower risk in terms of drug use and HIY. 
into account as well. "Sometimes I am not 
something altruistic, I'd tutor or volunteer, 
The program posts recruitment flyers at 
sure about the . particular person. For 
not masturbate." 
five colleges in the area. Flyers request 
example, if I have questions and they do 
Ethical 
questions 
aside, 
the 
sperm for research purposes, but donations 
not have the answers, or if I feel I'm 
participants agree that the process of 
are used primarily to provide sperm for 
getting evasive answers, not straight-out-
donating amounts to drudgery. "It's not 
childless couples. When they discover that 
8 
THE NEW JouRNAL 


--- Page 9 ---

them," he says. 

Huszar has a height requirement that 
David did not meet, even when wearing 
shoes. But because he met the other 
requirements, Huszar let the height 
requirement slide to accommodate David. 
Huszar won't fudge the requirement for 
everyone, though; Scott says his friend was 
told he was too short and rejected from 
the program. 

Finally, after .the donor passes the 
interview, the donor's physical charac-
teristics are entered into a computer 
database. Using this data, the lab matches 
the donor's characteristics with patients'. 
Just because patients purchase the sperm 
does not mean it comes with any 
guarantees. Huszar emphasizes to his 
patients that with any pregnancy-
whether the sperm is from the donor or 
the husband-comes the possibility of 
congenital malformation. 

"The fact of the matter is, I have done 
a much more careful analysis of the donors 
than a lot of people who meet, fall in love 
and marry each other," Huszar says. 
"Everybody is very happy with their 
children. They come back a second time, 
they send me pictures-! have a whole 
drawer full of pictures." 

But David, Scott, Jeff, and anyone else 
who has donated sperm to the lab will 
never see the pictures in Huszar's drawer. 
Upon acceptance into the program, each 
donor signs a contract that ensures the 
privacy of both the donors and the 
offspring. 

So what do the donors think about 
fathering children through the program? 
"I've debated this," says Scott, who 
describes himself as a philosophical 
nihilist. 
"This 
an 
interesting 
justification: In strict Darwinian terms 
your purpose is to replicate yourself. I 
believe I have pretty strong genes-I think 
a lot of people do-and I feel no qualms 
about propagating those genes throughout 
the human species. I'll have no emotional 
connection with my children, but then 
again, if you go far back everyone is related 
to ... moss. .. 

In order to p revent an emotional 
connection, Jeff stresses the importance of 
ensuring legal distance from potential 
offspring. When he attempted to donate, 
maintaining anonymity was Jeff's biggest 
concern. "I would never, ever, want the 
child to know who I am, and I would not 
want to know who the child was," Jeff 
says. 'Tm not fathering a child, I'm just 
helping other people who can't." 

Scott has no qualms about selling his 
gametes. "I'm not ashamed, and I find that 
I am a lot more relaxed about my entire 
sexuality as a result of having gone 
through this whole process. " Being a 
father, albeit a purely genetic one, 
demands some moral and ethical 
introspection. Having resolved those 
issues, however, donors find t hat 
participation becomes a unique, mind-
expanding experience. 

And lucrative besides. 
1m] 
David, Scott, and jeff are pseudonyms. 
Yuki Noguchi, a junior in Ezra Stiles, is on 
the staff ofTNJ. 


**Title: A Tale of Two Goodyears**
**Author: Dana Goodyear**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Although Charles Goodyear's name is embossed on millions of tires, his 
invention of vulcanized rubber could not save him from debtor's prison. 
A
t noon the cemetery is not a quiet place. Nor does it 
bristle with the horror of the undead, despite the teen 
thriller admonition "THE DEAD SHALL BE RAISED" 
inscribed on the lintel of the Egyptian revival gates. The 
benches just outside the gates bear trinities of men in plaid, freed 
for an hour from the Law School scaffolding. Inside, people pant 
precipitously, as if he and "Clarissa" have been thrust forward in 
apology, the urchin offspring of the proud monument looming 
behind them. "C.G." and "Clarissa" are none other than the 
inventor and his wife. That Charles and Clarissa are twice 
memorialized perplexes me. My curiosity is piqued. 
in Lycra. It is Indian summer, Lizzie Borden hot. 


"He was"financially strapped," the superintendent of the 
cemetery explains, clicking his tongue behind his teeth 
and giving a slight shake of the head, as if he really 
feels sorry for Charles. Neither of us can figure 
out who paid for the dignified portion of 
the family plot. It is certain that the estate 
of Charles Goodyear, inventor of 
vulcanized rubber, could not have 
managed much more than a pair of 
shrinking violets of the "Clarissa" 
and "C.G. " va'riety. Upon his 
death, Charles owed $200,000 in 
1860 money. 
I turn right on Sycamore Avenue and walk 
almost to the end. Plot 46. My distant cousin 
Charles, an inventor, is buried here with his 
first wife and five children. My great-great-
great-great-great-great-grandfather was 
his great-grandfather. I have been here 
many times before, more out of 
curiosity t han excessive ancestor · 
worship. 
Plot 46 is elevated a bit, set off 
from its neighbors by a low wall. A 
three-step stairway, framed by 
granite parentheses, fans from an 
opening in the wall. Something in 
the gesture of the paren theses 
offends me. It alleges to include 
the passerby, to invite trespass, but 
serves to dismiss like the flip of a 
wrist. I step over the wall in protest 
of the stairway's snobbery. 
Smack dab in the middle of the 
plot is the austere gray monument to 
Charles. Its countenance is too serious, 
just this side of laconic. T he lettering of 
our shared surname is four inches high. 
Born New Haven, 1800. Died New York, 
1860. The south face of the block remembers his 
first wife, Clarissa; the east face is dedicated to his 
children, and the north to his second wife, the nubile 
Fanny. There are other graves scattered in the plot, one unmarked, 
another assigned to a mysterious Agnes. 

But two are of greater interest to me, gravestones worn down 
to a dental white, side by side. "C.G." says the one, "Clarissa" the 
other. Both are washed out, marked up, modest. "C.G." tilts 
I wonder if the city of New 
Haven sprang for the monument. 
Or perhaps one of his more 
magnanimous creditors felt pangs 
of remorse for this martyr to 
manufacturing. Maybe the Grove 
Street Cemetery contributed in 
exchange for the privilege of 
counting C harles among its 
Chronicle of Eminmt People buried 
there. 

P
oor Charles was not so lucky in life 
as he was in death. Had only such 
generosity been extended in his 
lifetime, Charles' tale would be a more cheerful 
one. Suffering like Job, a figure with whom he 
deeply identified, Charles labored toward the realization of 
his vision: stabilized India rubber. To · this end he endured great 
poverty, brought his family to the brink of starvation, and spent 
more than one night in debtor's prison. His cousin-biographer 
Grace casts his struggle in heroic terms: "In the heart of this sickly, 
small, sallow, nervous man there was the white fire of high resolve, 
noble purpose, self sacrifice, and lofty 
fortitude that illumines the lives of the greatest 
on earth." 

Whatever else he may have been, it is fair to say 
that Charles was obsessed with rubber. In 1831, 
India rubber came to North America from South America in the 
form of rubber shoes. The New England factories quickly took up 
its manufacture. Charles got the rubber bee in his bonnet in 1834 
when, desperate for income, he went to the Roxbury Rubber 
Company with an improved design for a life vest valve. Mr. 
Roxbury told him that if he wanted to make his mark on the 
rubber products industry, he should forget valve design and turn 
his mind to the rubber itself. The problem was that the damn stuff 
wouldn't stay put: it melted in the summer and snapped in the 
winter. Wishing him luck with the fickle substance, Roxbury 
slapped Charles on the back and bid him Godspeed. Charles was 
arrested and detained in debtor's prison on the way home. 

Throughout the 1830s Charles experimented tirelessly, relying 
on the advances of friends and speculators, living hand to mouth 
in cramped attic spaces and the back rooms of chemists' shops. He 
combined, with various success, India rubber gum with magnesia, 
lime, and bron.ze. Some of these concoctions were patented, 
winning him marginal acclaim. He transformed Clarissa's silk 
undergarments into rain hats and mailed President Andrew 
Jackson a rubber letter. But extremities of hot and cold still 
reduced his work to nothing, and Charles' straits remained pretty 
dire. He bartered rubber trinkets for bread. He pawned most of the 
family furniture. 

Charles was serious and dedicated, quiet though keen of 
purpose. As a youth growing up in New Haven, he had hoped to 
become a minister. But his father Amasa, also an inventor, 
apprenticed Charles in his factory and steered him toward 
industry. 

Nineteenth-century New Haven bustled with savvy young 
entrepreneurs. But Charles never quite mastered the well-timed 
ruthlessness required of his profession. Instead, he approached his 
quest for stable rubber with a religious zeal. It was his calling. 
The goal of his pilgrimage proved an elusive one. Like Charles 
himself, India rubber was both frail and durable; it teetered 
between states as precariously as his fortunes. Its abilities as a 
modern material were variously praised and belittled. Likewise, 
those from whom b' 
Charles sought financial 
backing for his experiments both 
exalted him as a genius and derided 
him as a lunatic. 

T
he pinnacle of Charles' career, the happy accident for which 
he is famous, the reason that my last name is as familiar as 
Kleenex, happened one winter evening in 1839. I imagine 
it occurred in the place now occupied by Jonathan Edwards 
College, his humble little house. It stood on the corner of High 
and Library Streets, now the path separating Jonathan Edwards 
and Branford Colleges, light from its thinly curtained windows 
making shallow incursions against the black of a night without 
street lamps. From Library Street an icy path led to the house's 
kitchen door. From without, the pitch and fall of a heated 
conversation could be heard. 
"But can't you see, my boy, that it's precisely the nitric acid 
which consumtf-" 
"No, no, I see, but I disagree. I say that it is rather the process 
of boiling the gum which renders it less viscous!" 
"Please, Charles, dear gentlemen, I beg your pardon, might the 
discussion not better be held in the sitting room? Or perhaps after 
supper? Gentlemen, would you stay for supper?" Clarissa turned 
her flushed face toward the group clustered around the butcher's 
block, where she was hoping to roll out her dough, and then 
quickly resumed the posture of gazing into the watery soup. She 
knew they would have the decency to decline. 

For dinner that night there would be boiled potato soup and 
bread. Charles always liked his bread a spot fried. Besides, he was 
looking pale; a little fried bread and a bowl of soup would take the 
chill from his bones. She wished his damn fool brothers and the 
others would just leave him be. 

Clarissa opened the window to the blustery February night. 
The men looked up at the sudden cold, aware of an interruption, 
but they continued their conversation nevertheless. Charles 
nodded as if to say, "soon dear." Clarissa lit the pilot light below 
the griddle. 
"Gentlemen. The patent I have obtained from Mr. Hayward, 
the one for sulfur treatment shows great potential- the mailbags 
were only a minor setback-" 


**Title: The Goodyear Blimp**
**Author: Jana Goodyear**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
1as to reimburse his increasingly impatient 
reditors. It was denied him on a 
echnicality. Charles was escorted off to 
:lichy Prison. His son delivered the Cross 
f the Legion of Honor to him in his cell. 
This was the last ironic twist of fate for 
he beleaguered Charles. His few remaining 
ears dissolved in unhappiness: he returned 
::> England, Clarissa died, and Charles was 
1iled for his exhibition debts. A second 
narriage to young Fanny Wardell in 1854 
nay have provided a momentary bright 
pot, but marital bliss was soon 
·vershadowed by the illness of his daughter. 
)espite his own failing health, Charles 
lecided to return to New Haven to be at his 
laughter's bedside. He died on his way 
here. 

The turn of the century brought cars, 
nd the beginning of the end of obscurity 
or the Goodyear name. Exactly how the tire 
ompany adopted the name is uncertain. In 
II likelihood it was purchased along with 
he patent. There is a detectable wince when 
family historian writes, "No Goodyear has 
ver held an important position in the 
;oodyear Rubber Company." I suppose it 
;ails some Goodyears to be a household 
.tame only by proxy, and the wounds of 
:harles' hard luck are thus never allowed to 
lose. 

noon the cemetery is not a quiet 
ace. The streets coursing by its 
tes and running alongside its high 
valls are thick ~ith traffic. But inside, 
:harles' grave is silent and stately. Not even 
be smaller gravestone, suggestive in its 
nodesty, tells his complete story. Standing 
here, I hear car after car go by, tires 
budding against the road in their endless 
evolutions. Charles never knew the full 
amifications of his discovery, through the 
nillions of tires embossed with my cousin's 
tame are reminders of his achievement. But 
cannot conceive of a memorial more fitting 
han 
the 
Goodyear 
blimp. 
That 
nonumental silver balloon, hovering in the 
teavens, iridescent with sun, bears witness 
o the strange apotheosis his cousin Grace 
xpected of him. It fulfills the promise of the 
:;rove Street Cemetery gates. 
181 
'Jana Goodyear, a junior in Davtnport 
';allege, is research director ofTNJ. 
)ECEMBER 6, 1996 


**Title: The Mental Hygiene Machine**
**Author: Hillary Margolis**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

I
t is difficult to forget the label branding a doorway on the third 
floor of University Health Services (UHS): a plaque with white 
letters screaming "MENTAL HYGIENE." For Sandra, walking 
through those doors was always disconcerting. Even in the waiting 
room, she did not feel at ease. Sitting in a brown vinyl chair perusing a 
painfully out-of-date N~ Yorktr, Sandra once saw an acquaintance 
enter the room. They glanced at each other and smiled self-consciously, 
but neither of them felt comfortable enough to say hello. 

When Ken went to Mental Hygiene for his initial appointment, he 
stepped into the elevator, intending to get off at the third floor and turn 
left. As the elevator doors slid closed, a hand slipped between them and 
in walked Ken's residential college dean. Ken turned right instead of left 
when the elevator reached the third floor, pretending to head towards 
Undergraduate Medicine and away ftom Mental Hygiene. "My dean is 
just not the kind of person you would want to know about your mental 
health," Ken says with an ironic smile. 

Alexis describes walking through· the Mental Hygiene doors as 
unnerving. But with a year of Mental Hygiene experience under her 
belt, Alexis does things differendy. "There's actually a door that you can 
go in through the stairs, so that you don't have to take the elevator, and 
you can go right into the office," Alexis says, clearly excited. Ken also 
speaks of the back entrance, which he calls "the secret door." Ken found 
the secret door in time for his first therapy session, a few weeks after 
dodging his college dean and avoiding the entrance that says "Mental 
Hygiene." 

Unfortunately, I never realized the secret door existed. Had I 
known, I might have used it as a sophomore when I approached 
Mental Hygiene after a year of anorexic behavior. I can now look back 
and say that Mental Hygiene did a fine job of providing me a therapist 
and showing me how to cope with eating at Yale amidst endless trays of 
soylada and fishburgers. I liked my therapist's quiet, sympathetic 
manner from the start. Once a week I went to her small, warm office, 
which glowed with brownish light and boasted exotic-looking 
knickknacks. At the beginning of each meeting she asked me how I was 
doing and listened quiedy. Sometimes she spoke only a few sentences in 
the entire 50 minutes we sat in her office. By the end of the session, my 
eyes were often blurry from the dim lighting, and I could barely discern 
the therapist's oudine from the wall behind her. But I would emerge 
from the office feeling fresher and looking forward to the next week. 

Yet the sense of embarrassment never disappeared from my visits to 
Mental Health Services. Two years later, I am more comfortable 
confessing that I had an eating disorder than admitting that I went to 
Mental Hygiene. Each time I walked through the department's doors I 
felt ashamed, weak, and scared that someone might recognize me. The 
stigma attached to Mental Hygiene may stem from beyond the walls of 
UHS-from the public's preconceptions about what it means to use 
psychotherapy-but the often institutional and mechanical nature of 
Mental Hygiene only accentuates this stigma. Inside the department's 
doors, students find comfort in the willing ears of their therapists. 
However, they also find a process that erases their privacy and treats 
them with the personality of an automaton. 

M
ental Hygiene: the name itself is sterile, hardly inviting. 
Walking through the department's doors, I felt as though I 
was going to the dentist, as if I would emerge 50 minutes 
later with my brain polished and whitened. The name holds unlimited 
promise-go in for a quick check-up and come out with a perfecdy 
flossed brain-but it also gives the impression that anyone entering the 
department has a mind in need of fixing. 

The term "mental hygiene" became popular in the 1920s, during 
the era of Sigmund Freud. & Freud's writings made their way into 
mainstream culture, Yale established its mental health department, 
explains Dr. Lorraine Siggins, acting director of Mental Health 
Services. Her voiee boasts an Australian accent, tinged with a hint of 
conservatism that her sweater suit confirms. During her 30 years here 
she has wimessed the transformation from all-male to co-ed Yale, and 
the comings and goings of countless students. 

Each year, about 1,000 students, graduate and undergraduate, 
come to Mental Hygiene. The plaque on the entrance is only the first 
indication of Mental Hygiene's institutional nature. Studenrs 
undergoing therapy often feel like products of an out-of-dare machine. 
Lengthy waiting periods for appointments and inaccessible services do 
nothing to overcome the stigma that already surrounds psychotherapy. 
If anything, Mental Hygiene reinforces the stigma with its awkward 
approach to highly personal concerns. Siggins, fop example, uses 
bureaucratic language to describe student problems. She hesitates to 
categorize some problems as "more serious" than others. Instead, she 
terms conditions such as manic depression "more traditional psychiatric 
illnesses." 

L
ike many students, Alexis was hesitant to approach Mental 
Hygiene. "I have trouble admitting that I have weaknesses in 
general," says Alexis, a sophomore. Her words imply that using 
Mental Hygiene signals a "weakness," though Alexis hardly seems weak. 
Lounging on her bed, she speaks indifferently, as though recounting a 
weekend of beer-guzzling rather than a semester of group therapy for 
THE NEw joURNAL 

For some, "the secret tkJor" is the only anonymous, and therefore comfortable, way to approach Mental Hygiene at University Health Services. 

an eating disorder. But Alexis tells few people about her weekly visits to 
Mental Hygiene. 

Ken, a senior, also hesitates to reveal his use of Mental Hygiene, 
even though the issues that brought him there seem typical of college 
students. Ken exudes an intelleCtual air and speaks in modulated tones. 
"I have difficulty finding spaces here to contain psychological issues," 
Ken says. He then translates this into layman's terms: "I wanted a place 
where I could talk about things, a space where they exist separate from 
my everyday life." 

Ken claims not to feel ashamed about his visits to Mental Hygiene. 
Yet his eyes wander around the room rapidly, his cheeks darken a shade, 
and his voice rises as he explains that people would misinterpret the 
situation if they discovered he goes to Mental Hygiene. "I don't have 
the time to deal with people's crap about the shit they give you for why 
you are going," he says. His voice changed drastically from the 
measured tones of a few minutes earlier. "It will be calked about, it will 
come up in drunken conversation. It will fuck up your relationship 
with going to Mental Hygiene. Because of the rumor mills and because 
of people talking about it-not because it's a secret." 

H
oused in the gray concrete slab of UHS, Mental Hygiene 
emanates an impersonal air. Irs offices are mechanically 
arranged for comfort; a steady flow of students file in, each 
ready to undergo the weekly inspection. Stu~.:nts may then find 
DECEMBER 6, 1996 
themselves passed along to different therapists like machine parts in an 
assembly line. Going to Mental Hygiene reminded me of punching a 
rime dock; 50 minutes after entering the office, I had done my work 
for the week. When I left Yale for vacation, I felt as though I had 
emerged from the Mental Hygiene machine-inspected, stamped, and 
ready to proceed with my Yale career. 

Despite the mechanical attributes of Mental Hygiene, the process 
fails to run like a well-oiled machine. The machinery may break down 
before a student even enters the Mental Hygiene doors. Sandra called 
the department at the beginning of her second semester at Yale, when 
she found herself in a state of depression. "When I first called Mental 
Hygiene, it was discouraging," Sandra says. "The guy who answered 
the phone said, 'Our demand is so high-you have got to understand 
that we're all very busy and we can't accommodate requests."' 

Sandra felt lucky co be allotted even 50 minutes of Mental 
Hygiene's time. "I understand they have very limited resources. In some 
way I felt I was not bad off enough to deserve their time," she says. 

'' 
T
hey told me they would call me within two weeks after my 
intake, which was a total lie," Ken says, dearly disgusted. 
The intake appointment is intended as a diagnostic 
consultation, to be quickly followed by a session with an assigned 
therapist. Instead of the purported two-week waiting period, students 
who don't call at the beginning of the semester, like Ken, may face a 
15 



**Title: Yale's Mental Hygiene: A Necessary Evil?**
**Author: Hillary Margolis**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
four- to six-week time lag between their 
intake and their first session. The system 
seems to mock these students for having their 
emotional crisis at the wrong time. 

By early October, Ken still had not heard 
from Mental Hygiene. "It had been so long 
since I went to my first meeting that I 
couldn't remember why I was g6ing in the 
first place," he says. When a therapist 
contacted him, scheduling conB.icts kept them 
from meeting immediately. "The receptionist 
told me he would be out of the office the 
Monday, Wednesday and Friday of next 
week," Ken says. His first meeting'was 
scheduled for November 15, seven weeks afrer 
he first went to Mental Hygiene. 

Siggins explains the waiting period as the 
price of an expeditious Mental Hygiene 
machine. "In universities in general, because 
mental health care is used more frequently 
than in the population at large, there is always 
a high demand. No one feels they have gotten 
to the point where no. one has to wait," 
Siggins says. Her reserved tone contrasts 
sharply with the voices of students who wait 
four to six, or even seven, weeks for :~,n 
appointment. 

e faults of the process include more 
han the time lapse between intake 
nd session. The entire method of 
matching students with therapists falls short 
of its promises. In the world of private 
therapy, people preview therapists as if 
interviewing someone for a job opening, 
considering various therapists until they find 
the right one for them. At Mental Hygiene, 
the process works in the opposite direction. 
During the intake appointment, therapists 
screen students. The department assigns 
therapists based on the characteristics students 
exhibit during the intake and the availability 
of staff. 

Inevitable mismatches occur between 
students and therapists. Alexis, who has 
resigned herself to working with a therapist 
whom she finds only tolerable, sees no 
available recourse for finding an alternative 
therapist in Mental Hygiene. "I don't know 
... > 
::1 
a 
'< 
(/) 
<D g 
N c 
() 
""' 
<D 
.;::::. 
~ 
how," she says matter-of-factly. "It's not as if ~ 
we can shop around." 

For all its pretense of catering to students' ~ 
needs, the system lacks flexibility. Siggins ~ 
balances the pain of waiting for an 
appointment and the failure to accomodate 
students' requests against the benefits of 24-
hour-a-day services. These services take the 
form of an on-call psychiatrist available within 
half an hour. "We try to see the people who 
are urgent right away, so we need some 
flexibility in our schedule to pick them up," 
Siggins says, meaning that students who are 
not in obvious "crisis" have to wait in line for 
appointments. 

The 24-hour service provides Siggins' 
explanation for why the cogs in Mental 
Hygiene's machinery often turn slowly, but 
only one or two students a day use the on-call 
service. The majority of students may not 
realize it exists. "I expect that most people 
know about it," Siggins says without concern. 
Mental Hygiene publicizes the 24-hour 
phone number, but only to a select group: 
freshmen counselors, residential college deans, 
and students who have aleady had an intake 
session. "Students who call in are usually in 
evaluation, or friends of people in evaluation," 
Siggins says. She seems to assume that those 
already involved in therapy are the only ones 
in need of 24-hour help. 

Yet even students who approach Mental 
Hygiene do not necessarily gain access to the 
on-call service. When I fuse went to Menral 
Hygiene on a Thursday, 1 left with an 
appointment slip for the following Monday. 
Four days feels torturous for someone who is 
not eating. No one provided me with the 
option to see an on-call psychiatrist, an option 
I might have gladly accepted. Never having 
had a problem of that caliber before, I did not 
know enough to ask for immediate help. 

As a Mental Hygiene rookie, Ken also 
feels out of the department's information 
loop. At the beginning of the semester, before 
he was "in evaluation," Ken had a fight with 
one of his best friends that left him 
emotionally distraught. "I didn't want to be 
dead, but I didn't want to be alive either. I 
wanted to be gone," Ken says without a hint 
of melodrama. The idea of calling Mental 
Hygiene in a moment of crisis seems foreign 
to him. "Who do you call at Mental Hygiene? 
What would I do?" he demands. If Ken had 
pursued the idea, he could have found the 
phone number by talking to a freshman 
counselor. Or he could have asked his 
residential college dean, the same man that 
Ken would dodge a few weeks later when 
exiting the UHS elevator. 

Freshmen may be even less likely to 
inquire about Mental Health Services. "In one 
sense, I stumbled onto it," Alexis says. "I had 
done something like it before in high school, 
and that made it easier. If you've never been 
involved in counseling, if you don't know 
your dean, or you aren't familiar with the 
process ... " Her voice trails off, as if Mental 
Hygiene represents a daunting presence to a 
newcomer. 

The involvement of a dean or freshman 
counselor strips the process of the 
confidentiality that Mental Hygiene promises. 
Confidentiality is a guiding principle behind 
any psychotherapy. Many private therapists' 
offices have two doors; one leads into the 
office from the waiting room, while the other 
leads out of the office into an alternate 
hallway. Patients never even see each other. By 
contrast, the rows of chairs in Mental 
Hygiene's waiting room provide an ideal 
location to spot aquaintances. Mental 
Hygiene sits directly across from Under-
graduate Med.ic~e-not from a urinalysis lab 
or an x-ray room, but from the department 
where all undergraduates migrate for illnesses 
ranging from tickly throats to walking 
pneumonia, a department with an exposed 
waiting area primed for an influx of students 
who will inevitably know someone walking 
into Mental Hygiene. 

S 
iggins depends on word-of-mouth to 
destigmatize Mental Hygiene. "The 
way to affect undergraduates," she says 
evenly, "is through other undergraduates. 
They won't listen to anyone else." If 
students would open up more about their 
experiences with Mental Hygiene, perhaps 
some of the stigma attached to the 
department would disappear, Siggins argues. 
However, 
Mental 
Hygiene has 
developed a far from pristine image among 
its clientele. The negative factors of an 
overloaded and non-user-friendly service 
frequently accompany the positive elements 
of counseling and emotional support. 

Students often find their sessions beneficial, 
but cannot forgive the impersonal 
machinery sur-rounding therapy. 

Siggins, however, believes that Mental 
Hygiene provides effective services, and that 
any stigma preventing more students from 
using its services stems from society at large 
· rather than Yale's Mental Health Services in 
particular. Yet, Siggins usually does not like 
to reveal the exact number of Yalies who 
visit Mental Hygiene to people outside the 
mental health profession. "I would not want 
people to think that all those students at 
Yale are troubled," she says with a nervous 
smile. She insists that this reflects the 
potential misunderstanding of the 
community rather than any personal sense 
of stigma. 

Still, her comment mirrors students' 
ambivalence towards Mental Hygiene and 
their hesitancy to share the experiences they 
have there. Those who enter the 
department face an often flawed, 
mechanical process. Students exiting Mental 
Hygiene do not necessarily emerge shiny 
and new. At times, the process leaves them 
embedded with nicks and scratches, and 
wrapped in packaging that pronounces: 
"Handle With Care." This may explain why 
some students prefer the anonymity of the 
back staircase when entering Mental 
Hygiene. When Alexis informed me of the 
presence of the secret door, I could not help 
wishing I had noticed it myself two )Mt 
earlier. 

Sandra, Ken, and Alexis are pseudonyms. 
Hii/ary Margolis, a senior in Morse College, is 
editor-in-chief ofTNJ ·


**Title:  Searching for Answers in the Wake of the Shoah**
**Author: Unlisted**
**Page number(s): 18**

N
oticing that the old school bus was nearly full, I anxiously 
approached a tall student holding a crumpled list of names 
and asked if there was still room on the bus headed for 
Greenwich, Connecticut. He turned to someone else and 
started speaking rapidly in a foreign language. The conversation that 
ensued did not include me, nor could I understand it. As I realized they 
were speaking German, I became exceedingly conscious of the Jewish 
star that dangled gently from a gold chain around my neck. Finally, the 
man smiled at me and told me in English to go ahead and board the 
bus. As I squeezed past the rows of filled seats, I continued to hear the 
syllables of his foreign tongue. I felt anxious, and frustrated ~ith my 
own anxiety. It was not the people who were making me nervous, but 
the history. 

Several weeks earlier, I had stopped in front of a sign: Hitler's 
WiUing Executioners. The poster was an advertisement for the Scholar's 
Symposium to which I was now headed, as well as the title of the 
recently published doctoral dissertation of Daniel J. Goldhagen, 
assistant professor of government and social studies at Harvard. The 
subject of the Shoah, the Hebrew name for the Holocaust, had always 
drawn me. "Shoah" returns me to my grandmother's room where I sat 
as a ten-year-old girl, giddy with excitement as my grandma removed a 
dusty, worn green album from her dresser. The black-and-white faces 
that looked sternly back at me were beautiful and poised. I tried to find 
in each detail-the nose, the eyes-similarities that I might share with 
my ancestors. But my grandmother could not indulge me. After the 
first page of photos, she began to quickly flip through the rest of the 
album. Confused, I asked her to slow down. "They're all dead," she said 
with no emotion. "Dead." 

Later that day, I told my mom what had happened. Shocked, she 
told me that the album was the only tangible memory my grandmother 
had of her seven brothers and sisters, her parents, and her relatives, all of 
whom had died in the Shoah. My mother had known of the album, 
r8 
and as a girl had often asked my grandmother to look at it, but my 
grandmother had always refused. 

So why had she shown it to me? She seemed to feel a need to do so, 
not realizing how painful the process would be for her. Fifty years later, 
she feels an urgency to tell what happened so her story does not 
disappear with her. I, too, feel a need to search for explanations of the 
Shoah, because I cannot know the people behirid the photographed 
faces. Maybe that's why Goldhagen's title stopped me in my tracks. 

Goldhagen believes the German masses were willing perpetrators. 
Could this really be true? 

Of course they were, the man next to me on the bus claimed in a 
thick German accent. A graduate student at Yale, he recently arrived 
from Germany to study chemistry. He had read Goldhagen's book, 
which attributes the inhumane atrocities of the Shoah to an anti-
Semitism inherent to not only the Nazis and SS leaders, but also the 
common German on the street. Although the graduate student believed 
this hypothesis to be rrue, he was surprised that people had found it 
revelatory. 

The German grad student, however, had never heard a survivor tell 
his story. My elementary school education, on the other hand, is 
marked with vivid memories of Holocaust survivors divulging their 
horrific tales. Of course, he had learned about the Second World War 
and the Holocaust. But he had not heard personal accounts, not from 
his own grandparents and elders who had wimessed the atrocities. Yet 
he still had many of the same pressing questions that I did. He felt a 
disturbed curiosity, a need to understand. 

A
s we entered Temple Shalom, where the symposium was held, I 
spotted a tall, red-headed German srudent. He was Lucz Bemers 
(BK '99), head of Yale's German Club. He had never been in a 
synagogue before, but he had been in close contact with the temple to 
facilitate Yalies' attendance at the symposium. 



**Title: Having read Goldhagen's work...**
**Author: Daplma Roman**
**Page number(s): 19-20**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Having read Goldhagen's work, Berners arrived both skeptical and 
curious. In Germany he had been taught about the Shoah in a factual 
manner. "My teacher tried not to evoke too much emotion, and dealt 
with [the Shoah] as a topic of history ... with an explicit warning: 'You 
see the numbers ... '" 


Inside the temple, a power outage intensified the evening's drama. 
The halls, aisles, and beema, or stage, were lit by small white candles. I 
shuddered, t:hi$ng that 50 years ago, Jews had crouched down hiding 
in dark attics and corridors, guided by the candlelight. Now, in this 
same light, we would attempt to better undersrand that past. 


Rabbi R. Lennick emerged from the darkness. His figure, 
illuminated by a soijrary beam of light, cast a shadow on the Torah ark 
behind him. Both this single lamp and the microphone from which he 
welcomed us were powered by a generator. Ironically, the generator was 
from Berlin, Connecticut. 


The evening's two speakers stepped out of the shadows. Yale 
English and Comparative Literature Professor Geoffrey Hartman 
(GRD '53), a scholarly figure with a sweeping white beard and equally 
sweep4tg portfolio of renowned works, had been invited to challenge 
Goldhagen's controversial thesis. When Goldhagen addressed the 
audience, I was impressed by his calm and collected demeanor. He 
defended his book's charge that the German population of the Third 
Reich was not onJy fully conscious but also enthusiastic and proud of its 
involvement in the Shoah. 


Hartman respects the force with which Goldhagen represents and 
interprets the past. Goldhagen strives to understand and explain the 
why rather than the hfJW of the Shoah. Previously, Hartman stated, the 
inhumane aCts were justified as obedience to an oppressive authority. 
Researchers attempted to discover how mankind could commit such 
atrocities, focusing on the psychology of human nature. But Goldhagen 
argues that the why is more obvious than people want to admit; anti-
Semitism was intrinsic in the German nature. 


DECEMBER 6, 1996 
Goldhagen's descriptions of the voluntary cruelty stunned me. He ~ 
described how Police Battalion 101 rook pictures of the brutal !l 
roundups and jubilantly mailed them to lovers and wives. He attributes :? 
this participation to an "eliminationist anti-Semitism." Goldhagen ~ 
asserted that this sentiment had always been present among the .g 
Germans. All that was necessary was a vehicle through which to vent it, ~ 
which appeared with the Nazis' "Final Solution." The Germans, ;j 
~ 
Goldhagen asserts, jumped at the opportunity to prove themselves just ~ 
and courageous individuals; the genocide was viewed as a personal test ~ 
of the German soul. Their actions were not done forcedly, but eagerly. 
g 


While his writings are disturbingly graphic, Goldhagen insisted that ~ 
they are not produCts of anger. He argued that throughout his endeavor, 
he maintained emotional disrance and presented only a political and 
intellecrual analysis based on facts. His vivid descriptions, he explained, 
are necessary to put the reader in the perpetrators' shoes. Furthermore, 
he was not intellectually shocked with his findings. Recently, in Rwanda 
and Yugoslavia, brutal slayers were believed to have thought that what 
they were doing was right. Why, then, would the Germans have 
believed differently? 


Berners agrees. When he initially read Goldhagen's book prior to 
the symposium, he initially believed that the work was written in anger. 
The symposium converted his views. "Seeing him speak, and the way 
he spoke, gave me a positive impression. It is a book that seeks 
understanding, and not provocation," he said. Berners is not alone. 
Dana Schwerdt (ES '00), a German-Jewish student who irnmigrated 
with her family to the United States, recalls: "My whole family read 
[Goldhagen's] book together, and we all felt that there was no revelation 
behind the book." 


The support that Goldhagen received from the German youth on 
his recent book tour shocked media and critics. While the German 
scholars with whom Goldhagen shared the stage were highly critical of 
his work, the predominantly young German audience accepted and


**Title: Missing: Minority Weekend**
**Author: Loren Brody**
**Page number(s): 21**

The elimination of minority weekend causes Yale's African American 
community to worry about how it will draw future freshmen . 
Missing: Minority Weekend 
A
sha Muldro (DC '97) got on the train in Providence, 
Rhode Island, not sure where she would sleep that night. 
She had been accepted early at Brown and had gone there 
for its minority orientation weekend. But Muldro didn't 
click with Brown. The high school senior quickly packed her things 
and hopped on a train for Yale. She arrived in New Haven, lugging a 
heavy bag and confused about how to get from Union Station to 
campus. She was two days late for Yale's minority weekend, and she 
hadn't even registered. 


By chance, Muldro met a woman also on her way to the Afro-
American Cultural Center, where she 
was scheduled as a panelist over the 
weekend. The woman helped Muldro 
into a cab and got someone to carry her 
bag. Tired from the hectic trip, Muldro 
began to relax. 


When she arrived at the center, 
Muldro still needed a place to stay. What 
happened next surprised her. "All these 
then-freshmen women were like, 'I'll 
host her, I'll host her.' It was like coming 
home." 


T he minority weekend that made 
Muldro feel so welcome, and that 
encouraged her to attend Yale, will not 
convince future minority students of 
Yale's benefits. As of last year, the 
minority pre-frosh days no longer exist. 


Now in her senior year of college, 
Muldro has made herself an 
active member of Yale's African 
American community. She was involved 
in starting the Black Pride Union her 
freshman 
year and 
the 
Black 
Undergraduate Law Association her sophomore year, as well as being 
an ethnic counselor this year. Some people view the black 
community as self-segregating. Muldro's perspective on blacks' place 
at a predominantly white Yale leads her co a different conclusion. 
Many white students, she says, misunderstand that there can be a 
cohesive black community within a larger integrated Yale. 


"I would say there is some self-imposed separation. And I would 
stress the difference between separation and segregation," Muldro 
says. "Segregation is more institutional and rigid, and I can't help 
associating it with the time when there was legal segregation, which 
was recent in this country's history. Separation is much more of a 
natural process for some people." 


Muldro emphasizes that she has chosen the route of social 
separation; she considers her white roommates her friends but 
socializes mostly within the black community. Some African 
American students say they stick together in response to an 
unfriendly white Yale. "You often hear white people talk about the 
black tables [in dining halls], about how many black people live off 
campus," Charlene Flash (MC '98) says. 


"That's by nature of [Yale) just not 
being welcoming. You want to be 
comfortable where you live." 


Flash is not entirely comfortable 
where she lives. College social life does 
not appeal to her. "When residential 
colleges · host activities, they cater 
generally to what the white community 
finds entertaining," she says. "The very 
reason Yale even has things like cultural 
centers is because Yale at large is like a 
cultural center 
for 
white 
community, just by nature of its being a 
predominantly white institution." 


Despite the liberalism generally 
embraced at Yale, African Americans 
still experience situations in which they 
feel that Yale's white community judges 
them solely by the color of their skin. 


Keith Horton (JE '97) sometimes 
feels that the community mistrusts him 
for no other reason than him being a 
young black male. This semester he 
asked a white male in Branford College 
for directions to the college's computer lab. The white student 
questioned him rather than answering him flat out. He wanted to 
know whether Horton had been to the computer lab before and 
whether he was familiar with Branford. In Horton's opinion, the 
student was really asking him, "Do you go to Yale?" as if to say he 
looked more like a trespassing New Haven hoodlum. 


Based on small incidents like this one, a collective frustration has 
built in the black community. Only when an incident goes public 
21



**Title: Race and the Disappearance of Minority Weekend**
**Author: Loren Brody**
**Page number(s): 22**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
It does not take long at Yale before it becomes obvious to the entire Yale community that race is still a divisive force on campus. The most vivid example occurred in 1990 when employees at Naples Pizza kicked out eight black students. The employees claimed that the students were overly intoxicated. An altercation ensued, in which the students allege the employees used racial slurs. Black students launched a major boycott of the restaurant. Some continue it to this day.

Controversy erupted again this October when Glee Club director David Connell chose "My Old Kentucky Home," a 19th century song containing the word "darkies," for a performance to be given at the Bard College Festival of Music. The two African American Glee Club members refused to sing the song. They found "darkies" insulting because it hearkened back to days of black slavery and legal subjugation.

Yale has failed to erase the traces of its oppressive past. Though they are subtle, the vestiges remain. Flash notes that Calhoun College is named after one of the major defenders of slavery. To her, use of the word "master" is uncomfortably evocative. More direct is a painting hanging in the Berkeley College dining hall that portrays a black female slave with a silver collar around her neck. Similarly, in Woodbridge Hall a portrait of Elihu Yale with a chained slave kneeling before him hangs in the Yale Corporation's boardroom.


It is against this backdrop of ignorance and insensitivity that the disappearance of minority weekend has caused deep concern. Activities geared specifically to minority students now take place at the general pre-frosh weekend: Director of Minority Recruitment Robert Jackson explains that the university's main reason for eliminating the separate minority weekend is that it misrepresents Yale. "You basically had segregated programs before," he says. "Yale is composed of many types of people."

Though some African American students echo his views, many feel they needed the initial support that minority weekend provided. They needed to know that there is a strong network of black people at Yale. Muldro and Horton both formed their first good friendships at Yale during the few days they spent here as seniors in high school. Horton gives minority weekend much credit for his decision to attend the university and is disappointed that it didn't happen last year. "When they got rid of minority weekend, they got rid of one of the most effective measures to ensure that [minority] students attend Yale."

The decline in African American enrollment for the Class of 2000, a drop to 7 percent from the previous year's 7.4 percent, suggests that Keith may be right. This is amidst an already disturbing trend in which black freshman enrollment has decreased each year since 1993. Muldro's and Horton's class was 11.5 percent African American, the highest percentage in Yale's history. It is not that Yale is accepting fewer African Americans-Jackson says acceptances have remained relatively steady-it is that fewer are deciding to attend. Yale's black students say insensitivity on campus discourages prospective African Americans. Minority weekend was an opportunity for prospective blacks to find support before integrating into the larger campus community. Without such a weekend, many blacks feel they would not have been aware that such a community exists, and they might have chosen to go to a school where one is more apparent.

The Annual Black Solidarity Conference began at Yale last year, not in direct response to the cancellation of minority weekend or specific events on campus, but in an effort to mobilize and unify blacks nationwide. This year's conference, entitled "Empowerment 2000: Building Black Leadership for the 21st Century," drew Yale undergraduates, alumni, and students from colleges nationwide. They gathered in part to discuss the recent surge in public hostility toward affirmative action that threatens their community.


The people who gathered at the conference found it necessary to assert themselves collectively as blacks. In doing so, they claim for themselves an identity distinct from the white community. Theirs is a positive, pro-active self-separation. This is the strong group of African Americans whom, without minority weekend, prospective freshmen may never see.

Loren Brody is a junior in Silliman College.


**Title: Vision 2000: Growth strategies tailored to today's burgeoning undergraduate marketplace**
**Author: Alec Bemis**
**Page number(s): 23**

Good afternoon. Welcome to the 1996 Yale University Stockholders Meeting.

The first section of tonight's presentation features one of the more exciting developments in our undergraduate profile: the rejuvenation of the Yale Business and Economics Forum (YBE). Celebrating 25 years as an established undergraduate extracurricular sub-discipline, the YBE has obliterated its former image as an irrelevant group created for padding the resumes of future CEOs and upper-echelon management personnel.

In the fall quarter, the YBE developed into a dynamic voice for those interested in business fields. Once a sidebar domain to our standard post-baccalaureate industries-medicine, law, politics-business-related fields have exploded in the past decade. As the number of students fascinated by the diverse challenges offered in global careers in management consulting, international banking, and other corporate ventures has skyrocketed, a vital, new organization has arisen to satisfy the diverse needs of this market.

The numbers are in. In less than three months' time, the YBE's unpaid student yield has skyrocketed from 10 to 270-an increase of 2,600 percent. Factor in the newly instituted membership fee of $10 and the paid yield of 110 student units, and you can see that the gross income in this division has surpassed all expectations. But how has the YBE coped with the other movers and shakers in today's competitive Student life marketplace? To answer that question, I introduce the man responsible for this bold new direction: YBE Chairman David C. Bilas.

"I had a three-prong plan for revitalizing the group, because it was doing terribly. We had a membership of ten people last year. So I had a few goals I wanted to hit, and it looks like it's worked out pretty well."

Tell the stockholders how you accomplished your objective and turned this loss leader around.

"First thing we needed to do is we needed a product people would want to see. So last spring I went on a pretty massive letter writing campaign just to generate some guests to come. We weren't expecting a very good success rate; we were expecting a pretty low success. But as it turned out our success was much higher, and we actually weren't able to bring in all the people who wanted to come because we just couldn't fit it in the schedule.

"Second thing we needed to do was generate membership. We had the product so we changed our marketing approach. We wanted to expose the group's name a lot more so I tried to figure out how we could market the group better. We did simple things like a web page-little things that were never done before which seem so obvious-like table tenting, better postering. We tried to create a brand new image. I tried to come up with some kind of logo-something recognizable like the Political Union has. That worked out.

"Then we needed the revenue. So I decided to charge membership. I was the first chairman to ever do that in the history of the group, and it worked out pretty well. I thought we had a product that people would be willing to pay for. We wanted to be able to compete with the Political Union, who as it turned out actually didn't end up having a good schedule this year, so we felt we had to undercut them a little bit-our entry strategy. So we charged ten bucks. We knew they charged $15 so we figured that might be attractive given our schedule."

How do you deal with the challenges of an expanding, global marketplace?

"We're building up membership in SOM right now. We're doing a pretty aggressive campaign there to get graduate students involved."

This type of visionary leadership brought Yale University to the pinnacle of America's college ratings this year and continues to keep Yale ahead in the burgeoning job market.

After all this good news, I know you will be disheartened to hear the addendum to this report of rising profits: the chairman is graduating in the second quarter of 1997.

However, the YBE is confident that it will continue to make the innovative management decisions which have brought it newfound popularity among undergraduates. And in case you are still concerned about the impending change, we have been assured that Chairman Bilas is committed to aiding in the transition to a new management team.

Before closing off this meeting, however, I would like to report that we believe Chairman Bilas' future endeavors will one day bring returns to the Yale Corporation.

"I'm looking into consulting, I-banking-the obvious things. Also places like Proctor and Gamble. And I'm also trying to maybe work at some of the companies of the CEOs whom I've invited."

A great list, I assure you: Raymond Smith, CEO of Bell Atlantic; Kenneth Wolfe, CEO of Hershey's Foods; Leonard Lauder, CEO of Estee Lauder; John F. Smith Jr., CEO of General Motors; and Gordon Bethune, CEO of Continental Airlines.

"Some of them seem kind of interesting to me so I might want to go into that-some kind of smaller, non-conventional type of job."

Alec Bemis, a junior in Berkeley College, is designer of TNJ, DECEMBER 6, 1996




THREE CHIMNEYS INN 
A lovely Queen Anne Style mansion has 
been transformed and refurnished into a 
10 room bed and breakfast inn. 
Offering distinctive guescrooms with 
private full baths, Georgian and Federal 
period furnishings, four-poster King 
and Queen beds, inlaid parquet floors, 
oriental rugs, full-size desk, color 
television, and telephone. 
Business gatherings and private 
functions can be accomodated in 
the Inn's three meeting rooms. 
203-789-1201 
1201 Chapel Street, New Hoven, CT 06511


SELF .SERVICE 
7 days &m-10pm 
WASH, DRY & FOLD 
DRY CLEANING 
SHIRT SERVICE 
M on-Fri 7Am-6pm 
Saturday 9a.m-5pm 
BIG Washers 
Best Equipped 
Facility in the Area 
We Recycle 
0 
165 Willow Street 
(corner of Foster St.) 
New Haven 498-8537


COBDEN'S 
GENERAL STORE 
51 BROADWAY 789-2157 
THE ONE MOST 
EXPENSIVE ITEM 
YOU PURCHASE 
INCLUDING 
TAXES 
20% 
OFF 
VALID THROUGH 12/31/96


Print and 
Mail .. 
Services 
155 Whitney Avenue 
432-6560 
FAX: 432-6274 
EMAIL: AFDLETFRI@YaleADS 
149 York Street 
432-2679 
ALSO OFFERING 
Full color copies 
Course materials 
Complete mail service 
Graphic design 
Affordable Copies 
Quick turnaround 
Offset printing 
High quality 
Pickup and 
delivery 
Optical character recognition 
Network accessibility

