Publication date: 01/86
Volume 18, Issue 4

**Title: Arraignment Court**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The mere existence of Reilly's rules underscores a problem which has plagued the New Haven courthouse: the difficulty of maintaining order and efficiency in a system with a seemingly unending flow of entrants. In an average day, between 100 and 200 people will appear before the court in a five to six hour period, whether it be for arraignments, motor vehicle infractions, or pre-trial hearings. If cases are not disposed of quickly, enormous backlogs can and do result. Reilly's arrival in New Haven two years ago was intended to facilitate the reduction of a buildup of cases rapidly approaching the thousands. Before his departure on December 31, he succeeded in cutting the backlog in half, but at a cost which cannot easily be ascertained. Whether this judicial expedition meant an improvement or simply a further depersonalization of justice is a matter of some debate among court personnel. So, too, is the validity of the system as a whole. In a city populated largely by minorities, questions of racial and economic prejudice are bound to arise. These strike at the heart of the court system as it currently operates, calling into question the very nature of the judicial process.


10:30 a.m. About 20 defendants have been called before the judge. One has not appeared, and a re-arrest warrant has been issued in his name. Reilly shakes his head, thinks a moment, and fixes the amount at 1475. He goes on to the next name on the docket.


Arraignment Court is by far the busiest. Anyone who is arrested or is issued a warrant in the district must appear there initially, alleged murderers as well as shoplifters. For a number of defendants, one day is all they will have to spend in the courtroom, waiting on the cramped wooden benches and chairs for their names to be called. When they are summoned before the judge, they will plead guilty to the charges against them. These are usually only petty misdemeanors, ranging from creating a public disturbance to trespassing, which carry fines as punishment. Most defendants will pay these fines silently and go, grateful to be spared the expense and embarrassment of having to miss another day of work or school to protest their innocence in court. A few will be recalcitrant, but a little coaxing from the judge or prosecutor, who explain that their charges have been lessened but that if they press for a trial the original charges will be reinstated, is usually convincing. The entire business takes only a few seconds; this way as many as 100 defendants can pass before the judge by lunchtime.


12:15 p.m. The cases move so quickly that keeping an accurate count of them is nearly impossible. About three defendants have requested the aid of a public defender to assist them before they plead guilty or not guilty; Reilly sends them down to the other end of the hall, where the public defender's office is located. A large spare room with tiny cubicle offices extending off it, this office is littered with old newspapers, coffee cups, and boxes full of various legal forms. Cartoons cover much of the wallspace, and a plush red heart with drops of cloth blood hanging from it is suspended from the window. One of the defendants sits down at the desk and begins to answer questions relating to his job status, age, and income; all the way down the hall, he has been murmuring, "Shit. I gotta get my ass back to work." He leans nervously over the desk as the investigator fills out his application and sits back, visibly relieved, when it is completed. Then he returns to the courtroom to have the application approved by the judge.


Those clients who are appointed legal help often find that their lawyers are just as frustrated by the complexities of the system. Lauren Weisfeld, deputy assistant public defender, feels that there is "an intense pressure just to process people through. They don't see the clients as people- if you say you want to file motions or investigate, they see it as you giving them a hard time." Weisfeld came to the New Haven Office of the Public Defender after five years in St. Louis during which she worked on serious felony cases, and is hoping eventually to perform the same duties here. For the moment, Weisfeld handles relatively minor felonies, working out of a small office decorated with posters from the Internationalist World Calendar. A snapshot of Bob Marley, another of Miles Davis are pinned to her bulletin board. Weisfeld is angered by what she feels are abuses in the appointment of public defenders. Although legal aid is available on request for all persons charged with offenses that entail potential jail time, regardless of their ability to pay, she believes "many, even most people don't know to ask for an attorney, and don't get one."


Reilly disagrees. "If you've been in my courtroom, you've seen that I'm very liberal in appointing public defenders- any person who appears in court for a serious offense is foolish not to have one," he said. However, public defenders are not automatically assigned; normally, on entering the courtroom, defendants are instructed initially to speak to the on-duty prosecutor, whose job it then becomes either to suggest the aid of counsel or alternatively to offer a reduced charge in return for a guilty plea.


After a one-hour lunch break, Weisfeld and the other public defenders return to the courtroom with their clients. As a matter of course, they ask for one or two-week continuances to investigate the circumstances of the alleged crime. This time is almost always granted, although a judge is within his rights to refuse it altogether. The client files are then handed over to the two investigators for the public defender's office, Tina Huckaby and Annie Yopp Hill.


Hill and Huckaby have spent their lives working in New Haven; they know its climate and its nature well. Huckaby said, "There are boundaries in every section of New Haven, certain areas of every section where you have undesirables. Cross certain streets, it becomes a little different." As investigators, the women are intimately connected with the defendants; going out into the neighborhoods and searching for evidence or witnesses is part of their daily routine. Although the backbone of the investigator force is retired policemen, Hill and Huckaby are unusual in that both are black women and part of the New Haven community. They work among their peers and sometimes their friends. "Sometimes when we leave here we see a lot of clients. I go to places, different bars or cafes- I see them. It gets to the point where I'll stop going to a certain place, because I'm tired of seeing the same faces," Huckaby said. Hill's experiences are similar. "When I'm in my neighborhood, I feel like the mayor-my hand goes up and down, I know so many people. I know something of everybody there is."


After about 2:30 p.m., Arraignment Court begins to lose its circus atmosphere. The defendants who were arrested yesterday for serious offenses and held in jail overnight are brought upstairs from lock-up, a collection of benched cells beneath the courthouse. There are no women among them, and no whites either, at least not today. Most look young, in their mid-twenties. The charges are read: violation of probation predominates, along with a few armed robberies and one murder. The men listen dispassionately as their bonds are set and return to their seats after the judge has finished with them. They do not look around the room, most of them, nor do they appear to have any interest in the proceedings which do not involve them. Meanwhile, the teenaged girl and her mother have just left, their faces wreathed in smiles and the girl's charge, that of trespassing on the reservoir, dismissed without penalty.


The high percentage of minorities in the New Haven community is reflected in crime statistics as well. Reilly estimated that on any given day, between 70 and 75 percent of the defendants in his courtroom were minorities, largely black or Hispanic. He attributed this high crime rate to the breakdown of social institutions "Many of the kids in the inner city have gotten away from the things that made the blacks and the Hispanics great, like the church. It was a source of stability. The breakdown of families is another source of problems."


Hill thinks the problem is more complex. "I see so many people I've known for years, and they have nothing. What did my mother and father do that none of us turned out criminals?" she said. Hill believes that poverty is an important factor. "Ignorance, lack of education, not being able to keep a secure job- these all count. I've seen layoffs turn a lot of people into bums. People who were proud have gone to welfare. The economy has a lot to do with it,"


Hill and Huckaby attempt to do what impromptu social work they can to keep economic or social hardship from turning one-time clients into repeat offenders. "The younger ones I will talk to. They're the ones that get the best from me. Most of them I know, or their backgrounds, or their families. They're the ones you try to get to first," Huckaby said. "The odds seem to be against them, but they are what they are. They don't have to be what they're told to be. I don't like patting them on the back and feeling sorry for them." Hill is angered by "the whole idea of coming down here for stupid, senseless things. I tell them, 'Don't you get tired of looking in the white man's face?'"


This racial confrontation is one that occurs regularly at the courthouse. All of the judges currently on the bench there are white, as are the head prosecutor and all of the public defenders.