Publication date: September 2010
Volume: 43
Issue number: 1


**MASTHEAD**
- Publishers: Samantha Ellner, Tim Shriver
- Editors-in-Chief: Haley Cohen, Kate Selker
- Managing Editors: Max Ehrenfreund, Jacque Feldman, Bob Jeffery
- Photo & Design Editors: Brianne Bowen, Jane Long
- Senior Editors: Eleanor Kenyon, Sarah Mich, Maya Seidler
- Business Director: Helena Malchione
- Associate Editors: Julia Fisher, Helen Knight
- On-line Editors: Bay Gross, Jimmy Murphy
- Members and Directors: Emily Bazelon, Roger Cohn, Peter B. Cooper, Jonathan Dach, Tom Griggs, Brooks Kelley, Kathrin Lassila, Jennifer Pitts, Henry Schwab, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, Fred Strebeigh, Thomas Strong
- Advisors: Richard Bradley, Jay Carney, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, David Slifka, John Swansburg, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Michael Addison, Austin Family Fund, Steve Ballou, J. Neela Banerjee, Margaret Bauer, Anson M. Beard, Jr., Blaire Bennett, Richard Bradley, Martha Brant, Susan Braudy, Daniel Brook, Hilary Callahan, Jay Carney, Daphne Chu, Josh Civin, Jonathan M. Clark, Constance Clement, Andy Court, Masi Denison, Albert J. Fox, Mrs. Howard Fox, David Freeman, Geoffrey Fried, Sherwin Goldman, David Greenberg, Stephen Hellman, Laura Heymann, Gerald Hwang, Walter Jacob, Jane Kamensky, Tina Kelley, Roger Kirwood, Jonathan Lear, Lewis E. Lehrman, Jim Lowe, E. Nobles Lowe, Daniel Murphy, Martha E. Neil, Peter Neil, Howard H. Newman, Sean O'Brien, Laura Pappano, Julie Peters, Lewis and Joan Platt, Josh Plaut, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, Fairfax C. Randal, Robert Randolph, Stuart Rohrer Arleen and Arthur Sager, Richard Shields, W. Hampton Sides, Lisa Silverman, Scott Simpson, Adina Proposco and David Sulsman, Thomas Strong, Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Wilson, Daniel Yergin and Angela Stent Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- 11 ON CAPITOL HILL - Max Ehrenfreund
- 22 WELCOME TO DETENTION - Ali Weiner
- 30 SEEKING A GENUS FOR MY SPECIES - Zara Kessler
- 4 POINTS OF DEPARTURE - Eve Binder
- 6 THE CRITICAL ANGLE - 
- 18 PROFILE - Ike Wilson - Tatiana Gay
- 20 SHOTS IN THE DARK - Yale's in the Details - Kevin Atkinson
- 36 PERSONAL ESSAY - When I Grow Up - Kate Selker
- 38 ENDNOTE - Bob Jeffery and Maya Seidler


**Title: 11 ON CAPITOL HILL**
**Author: Max Ehrenfreund**
**Page number(s): 11**


Yale students learn how a bill becomes a law.


**Title: 22 WELCOME TO DETENTION**
**Author: Ali Weiner**
**Page number(s): 22**


Turning around New Haven's juvenile detention center.


**Title: 30 SEEKING A GENUS FOR MY SPECIES**
**Author: Zara Kessler**
**Page number(s): 30**


An Eli's quest for taxonomic immortality.


**Title: 4 POINTS OF DEPARTURE**
**Author: Eve Binder**
**Page number(s): 4**


**Title: 6 THE CRITICAL ANGLE**
**Author:** 
**Page number(s): 6**


Click to Read More


**Title: 18 PROFILE**
**Author: Tatiana Gay**
**Page number(s): 18**


Ike Wilson


**Title: 20 SHOTS IN THE DARK**
**Author: Kevin Atkinson**
**Page number(s): 20**


Yale's in the Details


**Title: 36 PERSONAL ESSAY**
**Author: Kate Selker**
**Page number(s): 36**


When I Grow Up


**Title: 38 ENDNOTE**
**Author: Bob Jeffery and Maya Seidler**
**Page number(s): 38**




**Title: Dinner in 5771**
**Author: Haley Cohen**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
" 
' 
Dinner in 5771 
. JEWISH LAW HOLDS THAT meat and 
dairy must be stored apart, served with 
different utensils, and consumed sepa-
rately. Shaking his head in somber em-
barrassment, Timothy Frye, who has 
. been head chef at Yale's Slifka Center 
for five years, admits he doesn't know 
why. He must not realize he is in the 
majority. Stumped by the $arne ques-
tion, medieval Torah guru Maimonedes 
reasoned that meat boiled in milk was 
too filling and "undoubtedly gross:' But 
most follow Kashrut, Jewish dietary law, 
because it is just that: unequivocal, con-
crete, law-the will of God as expressed 
to Moses and codified in the Mishnah. 
Tonight, Rosh Hashanah, is a meat 
night. 
. 
· The sun has set behind West Rock 
and the evening is one · of mandatory 
rest, just not for the staff of the Slifka 
center's Kosher Kitchen. Yamulked boys 
and girls with pearl necklaces stream up 
to the serving station in droves, platters 
extended. 
"Is the peanut butter on the table 
parve?" a bespectacled girl shouts over· 
the line. 
"Can we get more challah?" asks an-
other. 
"Shana tova!" calls a girl in ·a lace 
dress, to no one in particular. 
The serving station resembles the 
skeleton of a steel barn, the gabled roof 
gently dividing the servers and the 
served. The kitchen itself is split into 
two chambers that join in front at the 
serving area: dairy in the smaller left 
ventricle, and meat on the right. 
Dressed in a black double-breast-
ed cooking shirt with woven balls for 
buttons, Tim flits around the kitchen, 
gingerly lifting Saran wrap veils off of 
4 
-
his creations. A chef of nearly two de-
cades, he casts a trained eye over each 
pan, straightening the rows of chicken 
breasts and tossing the melange of pearl 
onions, peas, eggplant and peppers so 
that it resembles . an avant...,garde chil-
dren's ball pit. Scratching his head, Tim 
wonders out loud where the cauliflower 
is. He spies it across the kitchen and 
nods. Satisfied, he claps his hands and 
his staff grab red-handled tongs and 
prepare to start serving. 
A formidable army of such blood-
. . 
colored utensils hangs at attention on 
a steel rod above the meat sink, like 
disembodied lobster· claws-though ac-
cording to Kashrut, real lobster would 
never be allowed in the · kitchen. Over 
the dairy sink a complementary infan-
try of blue tongs dangles idly, off duty. 
Dante, a hulking man in a red and 
black flat-brimmed hat, heaps flakey 
mountains of brisket onto platters next 
to Jezarelle, who handles the roast 
chicken and tomatoes. A wing tip of her 
butterfly tattoo peeping from behind 
her hoop-laden ear, Ronesha hacks 
away at a pan of sweet noodle kugel, 
sliding ragged -'edged rectangles onto 
students'· plates. She doesn't like the 
stuff herself-"Sweet pasta? Weird:' -but 
seems pleased that her a dairy-free con-
coction of egg noodles, brown sugar, 
eggs, cinnamon, ·margarine and raisin 
studs is disappearing faster thari. the po-
tato version Dante baked. 
While the meat side of the kitchen 
hums, the dairy side sleeps. Leek stalks 
lie in the sink, their fuzzy roots still cov-
ered in water droplets, and beet plants 
rest on a cutting board next to a bowl 
full of pomegranates. Six small pump-
kins beg to be carved, or at least made 
into pie. On top of a heated convection 
oven sit cobalt cooking mitts labeled 
. DAIRY, in white lettering. Small images 
of a fork, spoon and knife follow the Y 
like exclamation points. 
None of the staff is Jewish, but out 
of habit, Tim shops kosher for himself 
as well as for the Slifka kitchen. On 
the wall of his Lilliputian office in the 
back corner of the meat kitchen, he has 
tacked a sheet of permissible kosher 
symbols-block letter Ks, encircled Us, 
and Cs enveloping the letters HK and 
topped with regal crowns. Tim must in-
spect every processed food item that en-
ters the Slifka building for such a mark. 
It has taken him years, but he has finally 
memorized all 96. 
Meats pose an even greater chal-
lenge. Only animals that have both 
cloven hooves and chew their cud are 
considered kosher; this bars hares, pigs, 
hyraxes and camels-though Tim men-
tions those last two are rarely missed. 
These pronged-footed masticators must 
die at the hands of Rabbis who slit the 
animals' throats to most quickly end 
their pain. Jews must not consume the 
creatures' blood, and once their veins 
and capillaries have run dry, meat must 
be hewed from the animals' shoulders, 
never the rump. Leviticus pronounces 
all fish with both fins and scales pure, 
and dismisses the rest -shellfish, squid, 
shark, and catfish-as filth. 
Tim views_ the Slifka kitchen as aha-
ven - a place where kosher students can 
enjoy meals without worry and non-ko-
sher students can relax and simply enjoy 
good food. "A home away from home:' 
he calls it. Tim urges kids to bring him 
family recipes and immortalizes regular 
patrons like Nate Glasser '11-the inspi-
ration for "Nate's Famous Corned Beef" 
-on his menu. Josh Price '11 still awaits 
a namesake, but not for lack of rapport 
with the Slifka kitchen staff. He has eat-
en almost every lunch and dinner there 
since his freshman move-in night and 
often hangs to shoot pool with Tim and 
Dante after they close down the kitchen. 
"Dante taught me most of what I know 
about pool;' Josh says. "_But I beat him 
pretty regularly now:' 
It is an unlikely image: Josh, a com-
pact Judiac Studies major predisposed 
to cable-knits and side-parts, taunting 
the colossal Dante across Slifka's well-
varnished pool table. But it's what the 
Slifka kitchen-where muscle and milk 
cannot touch, but Muslims who observe 
Halal and Jews who keep kosher discuss 
-literature over Parve pasta cooked by 
bacon-loving Christians-is all about. 
A place where food must bear a kosher 
label, but labeled folk-"football jocks': 
"section assholes': "uber jews·: "hip-
sters': "staff': "students" -Inix like racked . 
stripes and solids before the break. 
· Haley Cohen 
THE NEw JouRNAL 


<br>

**Title: Say Cheese**
**Author:  Jacque Feldman**
**Page number(s): 5**

.. 
0 
c 
Say Cheese 
INSIDE THE CHEESE TRUCK, I AM 
sweating like a wedge of parmesan 
- it's just a quarter past twelve, but 
already, a lin:e has formed outside. 
Caseus, the three-year-old bistro 
and fromagerie at 93 Whitney Av-
enue, officially owns the vehicle, but 
Jeff, a Caseus chef and self-identi-
fied "cheese truck dude;' calls it his 
"current babY:' Jeff's helpers today 
are Krystle, whose favorite topping 
is guacamole, a new trainee named 
Raven, and me. 
The four of us are packed so tight-
ly· that _only I can reach the fridge, 
so they· let me serve Perrier, Coke, 
and Di~t Coke to customers. Krys-
•• 
tle explains that the soda in glass 
bottles, made with real sugar, not 
corn syrup comes from Mexico. 
The sandwich du juor is a grass-fed 
beef patty, and today's tomatoes hail 
from a farm in Washington, Con-
necticut. "I know the farmer;' -says 
Jeff, who likes his ingredients to be 
as local as possible. 
Besides four people and a fridge, 
the small van contains a grill (Jeff's 
hands deftly feel out the hottest 
zones), a vat of tomato soup, a stack 
of sliced sourdough, coolers of veg-
etables, a prep surface for salad, and 
a big box of grated cheese: comte, 
cheddar, swiss, gruyere, gouda, and 
provolone. The walls are clean, shiny 
metal, and the skylight is propped 
open. Caseus found this specially 
outfitted vehicle through a Craigslist 
post from New Jersey. 
When business is slow, custom-
ers take time to chat, usually to ex-
SEPTEMBER 2010 
press happiness at stumbling upon 
the truck: "I was just walking by 
and I was like, wait, Caseus truck! 
Awesome:' When the line grows 
long, Krystle begins to yell orders-
"Tomato!" to Jeff, who stands just 
two feet from her and confirms, 
"Tomato!" 
"The challenge of trying to hustle 
sandwiches as fast as possible"-
Krystle pauses to confess 
"is a lot 
of fun:' 
Within minutes of each other, 
two young men ask us about The 
Challenge. To rise to The Challenge, 
customers must design a sandwich 
and down ten within an hour. Sur-
vivors win a t -shirt, naming rights, 
and free sandwiches for life. "If you 
don't make it;' the truck's menu cau-
tions, "you must pay in full and you 
get nothing but full of cheese sand-
wiches:' 
"Does it say without vomiting?" 
asks one curious customer. (It does . .) 
"Don't come overly hungry;' Ra-
ven warns. "Your stomach shrinks:' 
Another customer asks whether it 
is enough to add just one topping 
to the sandwich. "Yeah;' shouts Jeff 
from the grill, "but you don't want to 
be that arugula guy:' 
The man who came closest to 
meeting the challenge inhaled seven 
guacamole and onion cheese sand-
wiches before throwing in the nap-
kin. Only one other person has at-
tempted, and he topped out at only 
four. Will anyone ever succeed? "I 
hope so:' says Jeff. "SQmebody has 
t , 
0. 
Caseus owner Jason Sobochinski 
and his brother, Tommy introduced 
the cheese truck in February. The 
truck brings publicity to the restau-
rant, but Jeff describes its main mis-
sion as bringing sandwiches to the 
masses. "Everybody;' he says, "loves 
grilled cheese. I see people s1nile be-
cause they eat grilled cheese .. That 
makes me happy:' 
Many Yalies are familiar with the 
truck's Tuesday and Friday visits to 
York Street and its Wednesdays on 
Cross Campus. Other regular stops 
include Yale-New Haven Hospital on 
Thursdays and the Wooster Square 
Farmers' Market on Saturdays. The 
truck also made an appearance at 
. the September 1Oth Train concert in 
Trumbull, Connecticut. "It's the first 
concert we've done;' Jeff says. That 
same weekend, the truck served cus-
tomers at the Fall Festival and Green 
Expo in Edgerton Park. 
The cheese truck may be going 
places, but its heart will always re-
main a good grilled cheese sand-
wich. I ask Jeff for tips. "The trick 
is butter;' he replies, dipping a ladle 
. into a Tupperware container and 
splashing it on the grill. One ounce 
per sandwich. "Let the bread swim 
in the butter:' Then, add cheese, 
''squish it together;' and fry. Perfect, 
every time. 
-Jacque Feldman 
TNJ 
5 
l



**Title: Computers make an appearance on old campus.**
**Author: [No Author Listed]**
**Page number(s): 6**

6 
Computers make an appearance on old campus. 
• • 
'· ' 



**Title: The Class of 2014**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 7-9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
. . 
e Internet is ·a liberal, artistic, educational medium. But does it 
HE CLASS 
OF 
2014 effectively 
shares a birthday with the Inter-
net. Netscape Navigator, the first 
major lnternet browser, was released 
·for public consumption in 1992. The 
newest Yalies were still growing teeth 
while Netscape and Yahoo were grow-
ing roots, and by their first high school 
term in 2006, 57 million households in 
the U.S. were already broadband sub-
scribers. That number has since grown 
to over 81 million, according to 2009 
statistics from the OECD, which tracks 
Internet ~sage in 33 countries. 
' • 
Brainpower, 
revved up 
by signal strength. That's 
the 
core 
idea 
behind 
Yale's many tech exertions 
and 
expenses~-that the 
Internet 
can 
improve 
what was already good to 
begin with. 
A Yale student computing survey 
conducted in 2007 by Information Tech-
nology Services (ITS) revealed that 80 
percent of students were using the Uni-
versity wireless network that year, com-
pared with just 20 percent in 2003. 2007 
also marked the first year the university 
took interest in students' online activity, 
asking about their Facebook use (78 per-
cent were members then), their online 
music purchases (56.5 percent had pa-
tronized iTunes). Nationwide, trends are 
sitnilar. An exhaustive report published 
SEPTEMBER 2010 
last year by EDUCAUSE, a nonprofit 
association devoted to IT initiatives in 
higher learning, found that 90 percent 
of the 29,000 students at American and 
Canadian universities surveyed used so-
cial networking sites every day, and "84 
percent were downloading music or vid-
eos on a weekly basis. 


Like the printing press before it, the 
Web marks an epistemological turning 
point: a moment when what we know· 
and how we know are critically ex-
panded and transformed. While univer-
sity authorities might once have taken 
a tongue-in-cheek or turn-the-other-
cheek approach to today's prevailing 
fads, they're now following them closely, 
because the what and how of knowledge 
are the basis of their careers. How should 
a university react when the mental pro-
cessing of its students is fundamentally 
altered, at times even replaced, by com-
puter processing? How, and what, does 
one teach this new generation of savvy 
undergraduates? 


URING THE 2009-20"10 academic 
year, the Yale College Programs of 
Study offered 15 undergraduate courses 
that featured web-related topics. 
But 
these classes are anomalies among a 
mostly Internet-free curriculum. How-
ever, the Internet has significantly 
changed the ways in which Yalies expe-
rience their education. 


Online scholastic resources are ubiq-
uitous. The Classes*v2 server is the 
most familiar, hosting some 1500 un-
dergraduate and graduate courses each 
semester. Of the $115 million spent each 
year on Information Technology (IT), 
roughly $5.5 million goes to tec4nologi-
cal resources in teaching and learning, 
which covers everything from installing 
and distributing clickers in large-lecture 
. 
' 
courses to creating downloadable virtual 
art museums for the Art History depart-
nient. 


· 
Chuck Powell, the Senior Director 
of Academic Media and Technology a 
subdivision of ITS has observed mark-
edly positive trends in digital education 
on campus. "The bar keeps rising ev-
ery year;' he says. "Four years ago, the 
percentage of faculty who wen~ ; using 
installed projectors to display media or 
PowerPoint in the classroom was prob-
ably around ten to twenty percent. These 
days, we count it at around sixty, sixty-
five percent:' 


Many of these faculty members, in-
cluding tenured professors and the occa-
sional Luddite Emeritus, have sought to 
push the envelope further than Power-
Point. One famously taught Beowulf 2.0, 
using student wikis to promote ·arid ex-; 
pand conversation about the epic poem. 
Another used 3D and geo-technology 
to enhance the study of ancient Rome, 
making artifacts and historical geology 
pop and, in the words of Powell, "bring-
ing that ancient subject to life:' 


In this regard, Yale's humanities de-
partments respond more or less like the 
rest of the community, greeting online 
resources with vigor rather than vinegar. 
They upload their syllabi to Classes*~2 
and readily communicate by email. They 
have vocally endorsed Yale's digitiza-
tion projects, which involve the ongo-
ing transfer of hundreds of thousands 
of slides, manuscripts and news archives 
7 


--- Page 8 ---

Books and computers join forces as educational resources. 
from the shelves of Yale's libraries to a 
tagged -and -searchable online sanctuary. 


Some professors, like Pericles Lewis 
of the English and Comparative Litera-
ture departments, have even ventured 
into cyberspace on their own. Lewis 
founded the Modernism Lab, a collab-
orative research site on early 20th-cen-
tury writers, which hosts around 4,000 
primary sources and a wiki of editable 
articles. He has encouraged his un-
dergraduate classes to use the site as a 
research tool, which is widely praised 
among administrators, faculty, and ITS 
staff metnbers as an exciting step for the 
8 
digital humanities at Yale. 


If humanists like Lewis are embrac-
ing Web-based classroom tools, it may 
· be because these pose no direct threat 
to their disciplines. "The approach to 
studying the material may be different, 
but ultimately the questions at the center 
of it are still traditional humanistic ques-
tions;' Lewis says. 


Answering those questions today 
might involve a six -second Google 
search for "Shakespeare" and "water:' as 
opposed to six weeks reading the Bard's 
entire oeuvre with a highlighter. Still, 
Lewis argues, "the scholarly work of fig-
uring out what's going on with a symbol 
still hasn't changed very much:' In other 
words, the word "water" might appear 
177 times in Shakespeare's plays that 
figure thanks to open-source site Open-
Shakespeare.org but no algorithm on 
the Net will turn that number into an 
argument. 


Online textual concordances like 
those found on OpenShakespeare.org 
are beloved by undergrads. Though it's 
easy to envision their abuse (why read all 
of Moby Dick when you can just query 
"Thar she blows"?), they're considered 
benign by most educators a conve-
nience, rather than a chance to cut cor-
ners. The intellectual activity involved 
in research remains the same, though 
computational data has the potential to 
energize, expand and enhance it. 


Brainpower, revved up by signal 
strength. That's the core id~a behind 
Yale's many tech exertions apd expens-
es 
that the Internet can improve what 
was already good to begin with. It's also 
the idea that motivates Ken Panko, the 
manager of Yale's Instructional Technol-
ogy Group and the man responsible for 
turning Lewis' classroom vision into 
virtual reality. 


Part of what Panko likes about tools 
like class blogs and wikis, he explains, is 
that they boost student creativity onto 
a level where their ideas have practi-
cal, tangible value. "When you write an 
academic paper and you give it to your 
professor, what's the authentic value of 
that? Obviously you've learned a lot in 
the process of creating it, but the artifact 
of your knowledge isn't useful in a way 
that can be shared with the rest of the 
world. But when you publish to a blog, 
you have the opportunity to show peo-
ple what you've done:' 


Panko also favors "active learning;' 
a buzzword among educators and tech-
nophiles. "Try to envision a model of 
teaching where instead of going to lec-
tures, you get that content online;' says 
Panko. "Course sessions would then in-
volve the kind of close interaction you 
might get in seminars, or actual hands-
on work. And the professor becomes 
more of a guide and mentor, rather than 
someone who just stands onstage and 
delivers content:' It would be a turning 
point in Web pedagogy: the moment 
THE NEw JouRNAL 


--- Page 9 ---

Finding Your 
·Courses 
,• 
. • 
·· · .Ycucan. 
~~--
· · logging onto 
srudentFAQ 
,tofn course s.1tes by 
and IOCattQQ the list of 
' . 
' ' ' ' 
Classes*v2 is a popular way for students to download course information. 
when these tools become not just facili-
tators, but educators in their own right. 


In a way, active learning has already be-
gun at Yale. Video recordings oflectures 
have been online at Open Yale Courses 
since 2007. The courses can't be taken 
for credit and there are no discussion 
sections·: But for undergrads who over-
slept and those who weren't enrolled in 
the first place, the online courseware 
system is an important and valuable de-
velopment. 


Of all the ways that Yale has imple-
mented the Internet as a teaching tool, 
Open Yale Courses might also be the 
most surprising a bit, one might ar-
gue, like thunking down the drawbridge 
to the ivory tower. But professional 
Web innovators think that free, online 
courseware is a natural upshot of larger 
trends toward self-directed learning, 
international presence, and the value of 
knowledge as a public good. 


One such innovator is Eric Jansson, 
Director of Labs at the National Insti-
tute for Technology in Liberal Educa-
tion (NITLE). "Networks have exposed 
us to an enormous amount of resources, 
which are increasing in sophistica-
tion all the time:· he says. "Projects like 
MIT's OpenCourseWare are emblem-
atic of this. You're taping some of the 
finest undergraduate lecturers out there, 
and publishing that online it creates a 
really incredible resource:' 


But as Jansson points out, not even 
Web-based tools come risk-free, and 
Yale's investment in these resources 
could eventually backfire. Thanks to 
open course offerings in particular and 
the Internet in general, Jansson says, 
"there's been an explosion of this abil-
ity to manage your own education. The 
question is, how do you react to this 
institutionally? Do you let students con-
sume this material on their own, and 
assume more of a guide-on-the-side 
model?" 


These are the same questions that 
Yale administrators have already been 
asking themselves. By placing course 
materials online, or condoning the use 
of concordances, or . introducing class 
blogs and wikis into the- syllabus, Yale 
is fostering the very skillsets that could 
throw its institutional value into ques-
tion. Sooner or later, someone's going 
to wonder: if all this stuff is online, then 
why am I still sitting here? 


Someone 
has 
been 
wondering, 
namely Anya Kamenetz '02, former 
New Journal editor and the author of 
the recently published DIY U: Edu-
punks, Entrepreneurs and the Coming 
Transformation of Higher Education. 


She writes, "Rather than layering new 
technologies as bells and whistles onto 
existing classes ... courses need to be 
completely redesigned using informa-
tion technology strategically:' If the 
classic liberal-arts model isn't reformed, 
what Kamenetz calls "edupunk" do-it-:-
yourselfNet-based learning will even-
tually dominate the pricey, elite system 
that currently reigns supreme. 


But how likely is "edupunk" to affect 
Yale and institutions with similar values 
and methods? Could the Internet ulti-
mately destroy the liberal arts establish-
ment? 


Jansson, for one, believes that lib-
eral arts education will continue to be 
valuable in the Internet age. "In fact, we 
really need more of it;' he argues. "The 
modern world is really telling us that we 
don't need people with discrete profes-
sional skills, but people who are lifelong 
learners:' 


Modern-day success requires rapid 
adaptability: to new media, new voices, 
new careers. In 2008, the U.S. Bureau of 
Labor Statistics reported that the aver-
age job tenure was 4.1 years, a figure 
that suggests that if you want to join to-
day's workforce, you'd better keep your 
bags by the door and your brain fully 
charged. 


Unlike for-profit and vocational 
schools, liberal arts institutions pride 
themselves on creating exactly that kind 
of flexible intellectual. "The goal is not 
to prepare students for any particular 
9 



**The Internet and the Liberal Arts**
**Author: Eve Binder**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
vocation;' says George Levesque, Yale's 
Assistant Dean of Academic Affairs, "but 
to give them the skills to be prepared for 
anY:' So even as the Internet alters the 
need for Yale's teachers, it creates a need 
for the supple minds they produce. 

But even if liberal arts education 
endures, that doesn't mean liberal arts 
schools will. "One of the problems is, 
we're not sure how stable the vessel for 
that type of education is;' says Jansson. 
He explains that a place like Yale is pro-
tected by its sturdy reputation and gen-
erous endowment, but smaller institu-
tiOil,S might have to make major changes 
in order to survive. 

While Yale students use the Inter-
net extensively, Adam Lior Hirst '1 0, a 
recent graduate and history major, ex-
presses reservations about the changes 
brought about by new media. "Look, I'm 
the kind of guy who'll get really bored 
during lectures, and sit there respond-
ing to emails;' he confesses, "but I think 
there should be a switch to turn off the 
Internet in classrooms!' 

When asked why, Hirst offers sur-
prising rationale for someone of his 
generation: Yale is a liberal arts school, 
not a WiFi hotspot. "The purpose of Yale 
seems to be to spend four years consid-
ering the best that's ever been thought, 
written, said and so on:' he says. "The 
university should force us to do that if 
we can't do it ourselves!' 

Hirst points out that student profi-
ciency or fixation does not always equal 
enthusiasm. We "digital natives" log on 
because we don't know how not to, but 
just because we're media-literate doesn't 
mean we value media literacy, or seek its 
implementation in a classroom. In fact, 
by the time they reach college, many 
students feel quite the contrary. The 
Web may be a teeming information eco-
system, but a flesh-and-blood professor 
provides the invaluable service of orga-
nizing, prioritizing and situating that 
information. We can surf on our own, 
but how effectively can we learn on our 
own? 

Nor is this tepid response to Web 
learning just a Yale phenomenon. EDU-
CAUSE's 2009 report found that while 
70 percent of surveyed students felt 
positively about the use of information 
technology in their courses, 60 percent 
wanted just a "moderate" amount, and 
only a few loose cannons 3.5 percent 
of the sample craved an exclusively 
digital experience. 

If Yale students aren't lobbying for 
digital freedoms, then why have Yale 
faculty members and administration 
worked so hard to bring the Web into 
curricula? Is reframing education still 
an issue if student ambitions are the 
same as they always were? For all the 
Web's purported interfacing, it looks as 
though something important has failed 
to transmit. 

Maybe Yale students are just more 
shortsighted about their education than 
those who provide it. The current crop 
of Yale undergraduates might still bow 
down to the historic mystique of the Ivy 
League, but that doesn't mean that fu-
ture generations will feel the same way. 
As the Net Generation, we feel the loss 
of a culture that we never had in the first 
place. We are not digital natives at all, 
but the children of digital immigrants, 
raised in a virtual society but molded 
equally by the views of our analog for-
bears. 

An inherited sense of old-world nos-
talgia is what makes students pore fond-
ly over the archived, handwritten note-
books of old Elis and wonder if they're 
missing out, even though they can take 
the same notes on a laptop in a quarter 
of the time. It's why Yale is still a tourist 
attraction, and why the campus book-
store can still sell Yale sweatshirts that 
cost more than a WiFi router. 

But that nostalgia won't last forever. 
Jansson's prediction that Yale can subsist 
on its reputation and endowment will 
only hold true as long as we continue 
to value academic isolationism, and the 
idea that spending four years reading 
Kant in a wood-paneled wonderland 
still constitutes a modern education. 
TNJ 
Eve Binder is a senior in Pierson College. 


**Yale Students on Capitol Hill**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 12**

HE WEEK OF JULY 4, Congress is 
in recess. The cafeteria's patrons, 
lining up with trays of food at the 
row of checkout counters, are dressed 
casually in polo shirts, tank tops, and 
khaki pants-no neckties. The cafeteria 
is in the basement of the Longworth 
House 
Office 
Building on Capitol 
Hill, one of several granite and marble 
blocks clustered around the Capitol 
in Washington, D.C., where members 
of Congress and their staff have their 
offices. 

The mood is lighthearted, almost 
merry. Press assistants trade jokes across 
the salad bar, and interns waiting in line 
for the grill talk about the menu. You 
wouldn't know that partisan acrimony is 
especially intense right now, but midterm 
elections are just three months away-
eating here are two opposed camps. By 
the way they gossip over bagels, you 
might forget that these people spend 
their days butting heads. By the way they 
talk over their coffee, you might forget 
that their bosses' decisions can affect 
millions of people. 

In fact, you might think for a 
moment that you're in a cafeteria at 
a large university. Most of the several 
thousand staffers running the day-to-
day operations of the nation's legislatl,lre 
are under thirty. They are recent 
college grads, off to research for their 
senator. They are high-school interns 
and undergrads, off to sort papers in 
exchange for just being here in this place. 
A few of the bunch will rise quickly to 
take on responsibility and influence. 
One or two of them will be leading our 
country twenty years down the road. But 
for now, they're running the show from 
behind the scenes. Capitol Hill has a 
culture of youth, ambition, and idealism, 
and it is the source of federal law in the 
United States. 

NE OF THE CAFETERIA'S PATRONS 
today is Matthew Ellison '1 0, a 
newly-nlinted staff assistant in the 
office of Rep. Jim Clyburn, the Majority 
Whip and third-ranking Democrat in 
the House of Representatives. He is 
one of about twenty-five current Yale 
students and recent graduates working 
for members of Congress in Washington 
this sununer. 

"I love the Hill;' Ellison tells me. 
Like many others who seek jobs in 
Washington, Ellison moved to the capital 
after graduation without knowing where 
he would work. Graduates entering 
other fields may be able to line up a 
job in January of their senior year, but 
vacancies in politics need to be filled 
quickly, he explained. Most people have 
to be in the District before they can have 
a chance of finding a position. 

Ellison knew when he arrived in 
Washington that he wanted to work for 
Clyburn, a powerful legislator from his 
home state of South Carolina, and was 
able to meet with the chief of staff for 
Rep. John Spratt, who also represents 
South Carolina, through a friend of 
the family. Spratt's chief of staff was 
impressed enough to put Ellison in touch 
with her counterpart in Clyburn's office, 
who got him a position. 

Ellison started as an intern, working 
without pay, a few weeks before I met 
him. When one of the staff assistants 
left, Ellison stepped in to fill the role. I 
met him during his first week in this new 
capacity. 

This summer wasn't the first time 
Ellison had been inside an influential 
lawmaker's office; 
In 
the summer 
before his freshman year at Yale, Ellison 
interned under then-senator Joseph 
Biden from Delaware. 

As Ellison tells the story, his geometry 
teacher's band 
was 
performing at 
an event that Biden happened to be 
attending. Ellison-in what would later 
become a wise political move-came 
along too, and introduced himself. After 
the show, Biden spoke with the members 
of the band, and the geometry teacher 
let it slip that Ellison would be attending 
Yale in the fall. The senator decided there 
was room for this student in his office. 
By the end of that first summer, Ellison 
was hooked. "The Hill is where all the 
action is;' he says. It's where lawmakers 
and their aides are creating national 
policy, and there are opportunities even 
for a junior staff member to make the 
country a better place. He worked at 
a federal agency last summer but was 
frustrated by the bureaucracy there. He 
says there's less red tape in Congress, 
which answers only to voters. 

HE FIRST TIME KEVIN Hu '11 walked 
into 
the 
Longworth 
building's 
basement cafeteria, he recalls seeing 
Rep. Barney Frank, a Massachusetts 
Democrat with thirty years experience, 
just sitting at a table there, with his jacket 
off and his shirt un-tucked. "It's always 
shocking;' Hu says of sightings like these. 
Unlike Ellison, however, Hu and most 
of the other Yalies working on the Hill 
I talked to got their positions through 
the front door, by applying online or 
submitting a resume and cover letter. 
One of Hu's fellow interns, however, 
is the congresswoman's nephew. It is 
not unusual for one of the interns in a 
congressional office to be a relative of 
the legislator, especially since the tasks 
interns complete don't require much 
expertise. Interns, according to Hu, are 
"the moat that separates the staffers from 
everyone else:' They take calls, respo~d to 
letters from constituents, and give tours 
of the Capitol. They're also given tedious 
research assignments. Hu recently was 
tasked with fact-checking hours of 
testimony from Supreme Court Justice 
Elena Kagan's confirmation hearings in 
the Senate. 

But there are other assignments that 
make interning worth it. Emily Villano 
'13 says her interest in the legislative 
process led her to apply for an internship 
with Rep. Greg Walden, who represents 
her home district in Oregon. The 
internship allowed her to listen in on 
briefings and hearings and to see how 
a congressional office operates from the 
inside. 

Villano 
recalls 
one 
memorable 
hearing on the controversial Arizona 
law aimed at reducing undocumented 
immigration. The witnesses, all women, 
testified on how the law would impact 
their lives. They spoke of the abuse they 
had suffered at the hands of deputies and 
the trauma of children whose mothers 
were detained. Some listening were 
moved to tears. (The law is currently 
suppressed under a court injunction.) 

Experiences like this made Villano's 
time on Capitol Hill worthwhile, despite 
other, less glamorous assignments she 
received. She recalls days spent entering 
names into a database. "That would 
just be mind-nuil}bingly boring," she 
remembers. "I felt like I was wasting my



**Title:  Untitled**
**Author:  Unknown**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
£1 
0 T O'Z: 'li3:RW3:~d3:S 
:J.<Jutums 3lf1 .JdflO nq:J tfpn[ <7fl!1V1U3S<J.Jt/<J([ jo <7:J!lfo 3lf1 U! p<7U.Jd1U! nH U!tld)f 


<br/>

**Page number(s): 14-15**

14 
• 
Join the distinguished 
ranks ofTNJ alun1s: 
Neela Banerjee 
Nc1u Yorl~ J lnzcs 
En1ily Bazelon, 
senior editor, 
S!dtc Aftlr.?:azinc 
( 
Jatnes Bennet, 
editor-in -chie( 
A dan tic IV! o 11 tb I)' 
Richard Bradley, 
editor-in -chiet~ 
\X~Jrt/J A1ttgrtzi llC 
Jay Carney, 
vVashington Bureau ChieC 
Ihne ;\4t~grtzi nc 
l)aniel Kurtz- Phelan, 
Fo rc ig1 1 /1fflt in 
Steven \Veisn1an, 
!Vc u ' York l!nz cs 
Daniel Yergin 
Pultizer Prize \vinner 
Andv (~ourt 
' 
Producer, 60 Aiinutes 
thene\wjournal@gtnail. 
'--
C0111 
life away:' 
Friends and family from home tend 
to view these internships as prestigious, 
even though entry-level work in an office 
on Capitol Hill, as in any other office, can 
be dull. 
"We're certainly expendable;' jokes 
Hu. ''There's an army of us:' 
There are about two thousand interns 
on Capitol Hill every summer, sprinkled 
across all 535 congressional · offices. It's 
enough undergraduates to form a small 
liberal arts college. 
Hu expresses frustration over those 
interns who aren't humble about their 
. 
jobs. "You need some perspective:' he 
said. A congressional internship "inflates 
people's egos. It's horrifyfng:' 
David Manners-Weber '1 0 spent two 
of his undergraduate summers working 
on Capitol Hill. "I think there is an 
impression that Hill interns are bright, 
ambitious, and sometimes a little too big 
for their britches. As far as stereotypes 
go, it's not a bad one:' he wrote in an 
email message. "You go to work in 
important -looking buildings and are in 
close proximity to important people it's 
easy to get it into your head that you're 
an important person:' 
There is even a widely-read blog 
dedicated to mocking interns who think 
too highly of themselves called "Spotted: 
DC [Summer] Interns:' The blog's 
readers e-mail the editors with stories 
about interns embarrassing themselves. 
The following post is from this July: 
Heard: The Fifth of July 
I was in Longworth Cafeteria last week 
when I overheard two valley girls with red 
badges the table over. There was nothing out 
of the ordinary until the following exchange: 
Intern 1: Is july 5th, like, a federal 
holiday? 
Intern 2: Ummm. I don't think so. 
Intern 1: Then, why do we have offi 
Intern 2: Maybe it's because, like it was 
the first full day they really got to celebrate 
the Declaration of Independence. 
Posts on the site feature interns all 
over the city, but most of the blog's 
unwitting protagonists are wearing the 
ubiquitous red identification badge of 
congressional interns, which the blog's 
editors have nicknamed "the red badge 
f 
, 
o courage. 
"God, it's awful," says Hu, when I ask 
him about the site. 
Villano thinks this stereotype of 
congressional interns isn't quite fair. 
"Potentially, people come in with greater 
ambitions -- and then they end up 
making coffee;' she says. "But for the 
most part, the interns I interacted with 
were good-natured people who were 
interested in politics the way I was." 
Waller 
contrasts 
the 
distribution o 
ages in 
Congess with the corporate 
world. ''We have a range 
o ages in teh o ce, not a 
gaggle o _ 17-year-olds. " 
ITH SO MANY YOUNG PEOPLE m 
the city, congressional interns 
and staff can enjoy a busy social life. 
Hu and the other interns in Chu's office 
go out for dinner regularly, and when 
there's a chance to eat for free anywhere 
on · Capitol Hill, they take advantage. 
When I met with Hu, they had recently 
sampled corn products at CornFest, 
an everit for congressional staffers and 
interns sponsored by the National Corn 
Growers Association. 
And at nighttime, Hu and his roomate 
band with other Yalies to visit dubs and 
bars around Washington, which are 
filled with revelers working in advocacy 
groups, lobbying firms, policy research 
centers, the press, and every branch of 
government. 
"It's amazing how much of the 
government is run by people under 35;' 
as Manners-Weber wrote . 
This is especially true of Congress, 
where legislators depend heavily on their 
aides' advice. ccThere is no way members 
of Congress 
can 
make 
informed 
decisions on every vote:' Hu insists. 
There are too many issues, committee 
meetings are scheduled for overlapping 
times, and most members return home .·· 
on weekends to talk to voters. 
That leaves much of the work of 
legislating with senior staff, who are often 
THE NEw JouRNAL 
SEPTEMBER 2010 
Ned Waller left Capitol Hill disenchanted after spending the summer there 
Now he works for IBM 
• 2006. 
tn 
15 



**Title: Working on the Hill**
**Author:  Ehre.J?:freund**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
relatively young. "If you're committed to 
what you do, you can move up the ladder 
pretty fast:' Ellison explains. 
ED 
WALLER 
'09 INTERNED 
on 
Capitol Hill in the summer of 2006. 
His time there left him with little desire 
to return. Waller now lives in the capital 
and works for IBM. 
I've met him for lunch at Ben's Chili 
Bowl, a Washington landmark and 
guidebook destination. Ben's is noisy and 
crowded on a Saturday afternoon. There 
isn't room to stand on the restaurant's 
• 
checkered floor and all of the bright red 
booths are occupied. Large grills behind 
the counter are covered with roasting 
hot dogs. 
· The whip's o 
take-out, 
and 
ce orders 
Ellison 
and his coworkers bring 
the ood on carts up to a 
con -erence 
lawmakers 
themselves. 
room 
can 
where 
help 
Ben's is about twelve blocks away 
from the part of the city dominated 
by federal office buildings, and the 
atmosphere is different. A crowd of 
tourists and locals with their families has 
replaced the mix of government officials, 
political operatives, and wonky-looking 
economists that flood lunch spots 
downtown during the week. 

Waller contrasts the distribution of 
ages in Congress with the corporate· 
world. "We have a range of ages in the 
office, riot a gaggle of 17 -year-olds:' 
"The 
Hill is very young, very 
personality-driven, very partisan;' · he 
adds. The policy research congressional 
aides do can be fascinating, he admits, 
but "even when you are way down on the 
totem pole, as I was as an intern, you can 
sense the desire for power and (federal) 
money that many on the Hill have:' 

As 
we 
eat, 
Waller 
points out 
the 
black-and-white 
photographs 
decorating the walls, which show Ben, 
the restaurant's owner, with a number of 
civil rights leaders. Ben's, one of the few 
establishments to survive the race riots 
16 
that devastated this neighborhood in 
1968, is a local symbol of reconciliation. 
Politics 
are 
everywhere 
in 
Washington, even in this back room of 
Ben's, but it's different on Capitol Hill. As 
Waller puts it, "The Hill has· a crassness 
t 
't)) 
0 1 . 
Waller's colleagues there loved to talk 
about elections, which frustrated him. "I 
take great pride in being well-informed 
and I like knowing what's going on, but I 
don't feel the need to discuss a Montana 
primary race, being a D.C. resident and 
a Louisiana native. That's the kind of 
thing the Hill does;' he says. To Waller, 
Congress is as much about playing an 
intricate and high-stakes game as it is 
about creating a more perfect union. 

LLISON SEES IT DIFFERENTLY. Even a 
.veu-designed bill won't become law 
unless enough legislators vote for it, so 
it matters who and what has the support 
of the public and of key interest groups. 
"Politics and policy can't be separated. 
You need both to get anything done;' he 
says. 

Most congressional .offices have two 
components, he explains. Part of the staff 
focuses on legislative issues researching 
problems in society and designing laws 
to address them. But another part of the 
staff is dedicated to communications-
talking to constituents, representatives 
of interest groups, and other lawmakers. 
The intersection of politics and policy 
makes Congress intriguing for Ellison-
and it's why he wanted to work in the 
Majority Whip's office. Clyburn has a 
third group of staffers, the floor team, 
who are responsible for counting votes 
and making sure that bills the speaker 
brings before the House have enough 
support to pass. They have an important 
responsibility in the chamber, and 
. Ellison hopes to work with them in the 
future. 

Congress is not for everyone, Ellison 
concedes. "There are some people who 
had some connection to an office and got 
the internship, and this may be a good 
way for them to decide that politics is not 
what they want to do;' he says. 

Ellison, however, hopes to continue 
working here as long as the opportunity 
lasts. He will matriculate at Georgetown 
Law School in the fall of 2011 and take 
night classes there while continuing 
to work on Capitol Hill during the 
day. Hopefully he will have a position 
with more flexible hours by that time. 
Currently, Ellison works late, taking 
messages for the chief of staff, drafting 
emails to Democratic members of the 
House, or supervising the office's interns. 
Every Thursday morning he helps 
set up the whip's weekly breakfast for 
House Democrats. Clyburn's office also 
provides dinner for the caucus whenever 
the chamber holds an evening vote. The 
office orders take-out, and Ellison and 
his coworkers bring the food on carts up 
to a conference room where lawmakers 
can help themselves. 

For Ellison, even these small tasks are 
rewarding. "Everything we're doing has 
an impact on a huge number of people 
if we're doing our job right;' he says . 
"If we get the votes for something we 
support, then people's lives ·improve. If 
we don't get the votes, people's lives don't 
. 
)) 
Improve. 

IPPING A GIN AND TONIC in the 
Hawk and Dove, a Capitol Hill bar 
that serves congressional staffers of all 
stripes, Hu recalls the 2000 presidential 
election. On Election Night that year, his 
homework was to watch the news and 
color each state on a map of the United 
States red or blue as the newscasters 
announced results in favor of then 
Governor George Bush or then-Vice 
President AI Gore. 

Hu's relationship to politics in high 
school, however, was . "kind of like 
cheering for a sports team, an undying 
faith in the Democrats or liberalism:' 
None of his friends were interested in 
politics or read the news regularly. Hu 
began to develop his political views 
seriously only when he joined the Yale 
Political Union. He became interested in 
social justice, an issue for which Chu has 
a record as a firm advocate. 

Now, Hu has a place at the source 
of decisions on social justice but his 
experience working on Capitol Hill has 
made him less idealistic. "It's made me 
appreciate the complexity of the political 
process a lot more;' he explains. 'Ihings 
are no longer so black and white, or red 
and blue, as the case may be. 

For 
example, 
he 
had 
been 


**Title:  Ike Wilson '11**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 18**

R. IKE WILSON IS A 21-YEAR-
old student at Yale Univer-
sity in New Haven, CT. He's 
currently working as a teacher at a sum-
mer program called Ulysses S. Grant. 
We call it U.S. Grant for short. Ike is 
teaching a class on the first-person nar-
rative in which I am one of his students. 
At first I thought his class was BORING. 
But as time passed it started to become
18 
kind of fun. 

Mr. Wilson has curly brown hair that . 
comes to an Elvis Presley -looking point 
at the top. He has an interesting face 
with bushy eyebrows, squinty eyes, a 
pointy nose and an odd-shaped mouth. 
Overall, he has a super small head. 

Ike can usually be seen wearing a 
pair of old-man loafers, straight-legged 
pants and a solid colored shirt. He's ap-
ilson '11 
proximately 5' 11" and is a super skinny 
dude. Ike has ears that look like ques-
tion marks and quite a few bags under 
his eyes. These bags are so big that you 
could go on a week -long shopping spree 
with Oprah and still have room under 
his eyes to store your stuff. Ike is as busy .. 
as a bee, so he is often very sleepy. 

Mr. Wilson loves basketball. When 
he was a kid, he was obsessed with Ner£ 



**Title: Ike**
**Author: Tatiana Gay**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
He used to think he<i be the new-age Jor-
dan. But then he came to his senses. He 
realized that his dream team "The Se-
cret" would never be and that the NBA 
wouldn't be calling. So after years of per-
fecting his made-up moves, Ike called it 
quits. It was time for him to come back 
to the real world. Now, Ike only plays 
for fun. At lunch he can be seen play-
ing taps with Mercedes, another one of 
his students. People say that she sleeps a 
lot, but if you put a basketball in front of 
her, she becomes wide-eyed and bushy-
tailed. But enough about her. 

Mr. Wilson is a sneaker freak. When 
asked how many pairs of sneakers he 
has, he obnoxiously replied, "I have like 
somewhere around 40 pairs. Sometimes 
I Nike ID them, but most of the time I 
buy them as is:· 

Ike is obsessed with his name. On 
his Nike ID'd sneakers the "N" is in one 
color and the "IKE" is in another. If you 
haven't noticed, he highlights the part 
of Nike that is his name. If you take the 
"N" off of "Nike': what do you get? IKE! 
Ike Wilson, that's his name, and playing 
basketball is his game. 

But as of right now, Ike isn't play-
ing ball He's playing with his black 
and yellow pen. It sort of looks like a 
bumblebee. Now he's looking at some 
black and white "Thank You" cards that 
sit on a very manly hot pink file orga-
nizer thingy. Now Ike seals the envelope 
with a lick of his tongue. Ewwwww! Get 
some tape, man. 

Mr. Wilson is a rising senior at Yale 
University. I don't think he has a girl-
friend. He's never texting and doesn't 
have any pictures in his wallet. He also 
mopes around all day like he doesn't 
have a care in the world. Ladies, there's 
a single man on the loose. For all you 
cougars out there, Mr. Wilson is lonely. 

Mr. Wilson has an odd-looking piece 
of hair that sticks off the top of his head. 
It looks like this Greaser needs a hair-
cut! Maybe Mr. Tern us can hook him up 
with a fade and a fresh edge. 

Mr. Wilson loves to hit the books. 
He hasn't gotten more than five hours 
of sleep in eight years. No wonder he's 
always so grumpy. Or at least that's what 
he says about how many hours of sleep 
he gets. 

Ike loves to visit his family. Sadly, his 
mother and brother were in a car acci-
dent recently. The car flipped over four 
times! Luckily no one was hurt. 

Ike is from California. He lives in San 
Francisco. Yeah, I was disappointed too. 
I thought he lived in Hollywood. But 
what man in his right mind would leave 
HOLLYWOOD and come here, all the 
way across the country to New Haven, 
Connecticut?! 

Mr. Wilson has his own style. Some-
times his skinnies have a few wrinkles. 
That just makes me wonder what his 
room looks like. I'm going to just take 
a guess. 

No man who gets just under five 
hours of sleep has time to keep a neat, 
clean room. I get nine hours of sleep 
and my room's still a mess. 

According to Ike, his childhood Nerf 
goal is on the back of his dormitory door 
facing the big common room. He says 
his dorm consists mostly of a desk and 
bed, so where does he store his clothes? 
There has to be someplace he stores all 
those old-man loafers. And what about 
those pants? He has to have at least five 
pairs: two blue, two khaki and a black. 
Then there are all those shirts. On July 
13th, Ike was wearing a blue, grey, and 
white striped polo with his blue skinny-
legged jeans. And last but not least, he 
was wearing his navy blue old-man loaf-
ers. Now, that outfit deserves to be on 
the cover of a magazine. NOT! 

Today, Ike edits more work. He could 
really use a break. Maybe while he's on 
that break he could brush up on those 
handwriting skills. I mean, he writes 
like my doctor in that yet-to-be famous 
chicken scratch. 

But there are some things that Ike is 
good at. like basketball and teaching. If 
he puts those skills together he could be 
a basketball coach. It's a very doable job. 
My Social Studies teacher, Mr. Civ, does 
it and he works full time. Coaching bas-
ketball is just his side hustle. 

On a regular basis, Ike is a pretty cool 
dude. Although he is often tired, he gets 
his work done. Ike is dedicated and that 
is why he's # 1. That is why I like IKE. 

My name is Tatiana Gay and I ap-
prove this message. 
TN] 
Tatiana Gay is an eighth grader at 
Conte W'est Hills School in New Haven.


**Title: Yale Ornament**
**Author:  The New Journal**
**Page number(s): 20**

Over the past three-hundred years, Yale has built, removed, spliced, and 
assumed buildings of every style. Here, we observe and collect a history of 
ornament. 

rough its idiosyncrasies, the detail of campus architecture 
imbues the environment with history and craftsmanship. It is up to those 
who walk through campus to notice the many charming gems, secrets, 
and oddities that enrich and enliven the University . 




**Title: The New Haven Juvenile Detention Center**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
FEW BLOCKS WEST of Yale Uni-
versity, on a gritty stretch of 
Whalley Avenue where dishev-
eled old men gather in the morning with · 
paper bags full of scotch, sits a squat tan 
building where children were beaten, 
routinely, as recently as a decade and a 
half ago in what was then one of three 
abysmal juvenile detention centers in 
Connecticut. 


A few blocks west of Yale Univer-
sity, on a gritty stretch of Whalley Av-
enue where young men set up carts in 
the morning selling used cassettes and 
greasy hotdogs, sits a squat tan building 
where children . are given the chance to 
play, to learn, and to start over, in what 
may now be the best juvenile detention 
center in the country. 

What happened? 

The answer lies partly in children 
charged with delinquency, assault, rob-
bery, and sometimes nothing at all, who 
found someone to fight on their behalf. It 
lies partly in an obscure document from 
1997: a consent decree, approved by a 
federal court to settle a 1993 class action 
lawsuit against the state's juvenile de ten-
tion centers. But mostly, the answer lies 
in a decade and a half of hard work car-
ried out by a handful pf individuals who 
believed that Connecticut's most at-risk 
youth deserved more than solitary con-
finement and systemic abuse. 


HE NEw HAVEN JuvENILE Deten-
tion Center is a holding ground. 
Children are brought here on charges 
of assault, sexual assault, robbery, or be-
cause they have broken probation. They 
are ordered to detention w_hile they wait 
for court dates, or for the state to figure 
out where to put them. But jqY;~nile de-
tention is never a final destination, never 
the place for a sentence to be carried 
out. The· average. ti~e a . child ,spends in 
the Centet 'is le'ss than two weeks. In the 
early 1990s, however, juvenile detention 
in Connecticut was closer to hell than to 
purgatory. 

"We had conditions of confinement 
that no one was especially happy with;' 
says Bill Carbone, executive . director of 
the Court · Support Services Division 
(CSSD), the part· of the Connecticut 
Judicial Branch tasked . with manag-
ing juvenile detention: "In addition to 
overcrowding, we didnt feel we had the 
appropriate medical or mental health 
services or recreation services:' Detain-
ees were forced to sleep in pairs on the 
floor of small, overcrowded cells. Medi-
cine, surgery, and food were withheld 
from the children .. Tackling, hitting, and 
twisting the limbs of youth were all en-
couraged as disciplinary tactics. Con-
necticut's two other juvenile detention 
facilities are in Hartford and Bridgeport, 
two of the state's most dangerous cities 
during the 1990s. In all three Centers, 
the state swept its youngest troublemak-
ers off the streets and, f():r lack of a better 
option, forced them into detention. 

Joe Mirto has been.a J~venile Deten.,. 
tion Officer at the New Haven Center for 
twenty years. He is one of fifty-five JDOs, 
the direct care staff responsible for the 
wellbeing of the detainees on a minUte-
to-minute basis. Mirto is a small, pale 
man with a pointed nose and a slight 
paunch. He moves slowly and jokes eas-
ily, but sometimes, like when he talks 
about ~'back then:· he ·is somber. He re-
members the days when ·the average 
daily population in the Center was over 
40 children, though capacity was just 24 
back then. Everything-doctors, beds, 
patience-was in short supply. 

In 1993, conditions were so bad that 
then-director of the Connecticut Civil 
Liberties Union Martha Stone filed a 
lawsuit against the state's three juvenile 
detention centers. "We had been noti-
fied by the public defender's office about 
overcrowding;' recalls Stone. "The places 
were in poor condition - there were not 
enough services, especially mental health 
services, for the children:' Stone's class-
action lawsuit, Emily ] 
v "Weicker, was 
filed on behalf of eight specific children 
and, more broadly, .all the young people 
detained in New Haven, Bridgeport, and 
Hartford. The suit accused the state Ju-
dicial Department, the Department of 
Children and Families (DCF), and the 
three city education department~ of 114 
kinds of mistreatment and neglect of de-
tained youth. 


In 1995, two years after Stone filed 
Emily ], the suit was still stuck in the 
courts when the Director of Detention 
Services, Tom White, decided to try to 
move it along. White asked Stone and the 
federal court to settle the case in a con-
sent decree, rather than continue the case 
through a trial and a potentially lengthy 
appeals. process. In doing so, he acknowl-
edged the merit of many of Stone's alle-
gations and agreed to work towards her 
proposed changes. "I felt that the condi~ · 
tions in the centers were unacceptable;· 
White explained. "If we felt we wanted 
to make dramatic changes to detention 
in the state, why fight the lawsuit when 
we could partner with the court and the 
CCLU under the consent decree?" Do-
ing so, White explained, would be less 
expensive in the long term and would 
give the state . a court -ordered reason to· 
continue to improve conditions . 

The suit accused the state 
judicial Department, the 
Department o Children 
and Families (DCF), and 
the three city education 
departments o 114 kinds 
o 
mistreatment 
and 
neglect o detained youth. 


The 1997 consent decree and addi-
tional agreements negotiated in 2002 and 
2005 have transformed the Connecticut 
juvenile detention centers from some 
of the worst in the nation to some of 
the best. Today, Connecticut is the only 
state nationwide whose public juvenile 
detention centers are accredited by both 
the American Correctional Association 
(ACA) and the National Commission 
on Correctional Health Care (NCCHC), 
the two standard-bearing organizations 
in the field. These accreditations are not 
nominal. To be accredited by ACA alone, 
detention facilities must go through an 
involved, three-year process that mea-
sures more than four hundred criteria, 
down to the types of screws used in win-
dow frames. Dual accreditation signals 
that the Connecticut centers are among 
the· most progressive in the nation, em-
phasizing detention as an opportunity 
not just to house children but to rehabili-
tate them. The New Haven Center scored 
above 99% on both accreditations, an 
unprecedented feat. 

The progress has been a direct result 
of the original lawsuit filed by Martha 
Stone. It is no surprise, then, that the al-
legations Stone laid out in the "statement 
of facts" portion of her lawsuit act as a 
guide to the biggest changes that were 
needed, ·and made, in the New Haven 
Center over the last decade and a half. 

The difference, says current New Haven 
detention superintendent Jack Fitzger-
ald, is night and day. But really, the dif-
ference is Fitzgerald. For it was he- a sil-
ver-haired, professorish man who talks 
just as frequently about feelings as about 
actions - who brought on the dawn . 

"1993 Statement of Facts 
Description ofPJaintiffs: 
Michael is sleeping on the floor be-
of the overcrowding, locked in a 
room with another child." 

After four consecutive years of de-
cline in the number of juveniles detained 
in Connecticut, the state's detention cen-
ters began to crowd again in 2010. Ow-
ing to Stone's lawsuit, the New Haven 
Center, at least, is better equipped to deal 
with the uptick. It has improved medical 
and mental health services, recreational 
options, education, and disciplinary tac-
tics. But most obvious to the naked eye 
are the changes to the building itself. 

Superintendent since 1999, Fitzgerald 
is a congenial man with small, piercing 
eyes behind round silver frames. He is 
tall, a commanding presence softened 
by tweed jackets, nubby sweaters, and 
a constant, vaguely Southern-sounding 
"ya know?" that punctuates his sentenc-
es. On first impression, and even second, 
he seems more like a librarian than a 
warden. Fitzgerald has perfected the air 
of a man charged with overseeing a high-
stress environment: relaxed but u nques-
tionably firm. And at the core of his work 
is his conviction that he runs a detention 
center, not a prison. He seems to have a 
personal stake in the distinction. 

The consent decree mandated better 
living conditions, and Fitzgerald obliged. 
"The original plant was poorly designed 
for children;' he explains. "It was more 
like a prison than any prison we had built 
for adults:' The interior had minimal rec-
reation space. Sparse, dark rooms tripled 
as classrooms, rec rooms and spaces for 
gro.up meetings. The building was de-
void of any natural light. For twenty-four 
hours a day, children lived, worked and 
fought under a dull fluorescent glow. 


"The rooms were dark, dank;' he says. 
"The upkeep of the painting wasn't done:' 
In the cells, beds - of which there were 
usually too few - were steel platforms 
jutting out of the wall a few feet from a 
steel toilet. Children who didn't have a 
bed got a sleeping pad on the ·floor. 

He points to the paint 
trim aro.und the hallways 
and inside the classrooms: 
C(Maroon and Connecticut 
Blue, the same colors that 
are inside public schools 
across the state. · It looks 
like the outside world." 

Perhaps because they no longer feel 
like jail cells, no one who works in the 
Center calls them "cells" anymore. They 
are "individual bedrooms" on the "resi- · 
dential side" of the building. Now, each 
small room· has a bunk bed made from 
smooth, curved tan plastic that matches 
a few other pieces of furniture in the 
room. The bed looks, if not quite like a 
bed, at least like a comfortable resting 
place in a child's jungle gym. On each 
bunk is a thin mattress and the types of 
pillows, sheets, and blankets you would 
find at an airport motel. There are no 
toilets in the renovated bedrooms. "You 
shouldn't have to go to the bathroom 
in front of anyone else;' says Fitzgerald. 

There is still little natural light on the 
residential side - just a square foot of 
glass close to the ceiling of each room -
but the overall effect, Fitzgerald says, is a 
vast improvement. He is right. A room 
full of plastic furniture and no light can't 
be called inviting, but at least it does not 
feel like punishment. 


In the 1990s, . overcrowding com-
pounded the already depressing condi-
tions, making the Center unbearable. 
Today, JDOs like Joe Mirto work one or 
two of three eight-hour shifts at the Cen-
ter. When it was filled above capacity in 
the 1990s, Mirto remembers, Fitzgerald 
would need to staff twelve JDOs on each 
of the two daytime shifts and . six JDOs 
on the graveyard shift from midnight to 
eight in the morning :... in total, sfx more 
officers daily than he now needs.· Back 
then, Mirto recalls with a shake of his 
head, everyone was stretched thin. 

Today, capacity in the facility is 42, 
but no more than twelve are generally 
there on a given day. Until 2005, children 
identified by DCF, Connecticut's child 
welfare agency, as members of Families 
With Service Needs (FWSN) were de-
tained in the Center. "They didn't have to 
have done anything illegal;' says Joe Eze-
kiel, one of Fitzgerald's deputies. "FWS~ 
(pronounced fwiz-en) kids coul4 be run-
ning away from home, skipping school, 
having sex too young - anything that 
made the parents nervous. The parents 
could ask DCI:' for help:' 1hroughout 
the 1990s, most of the children in deten-
tion were designated as FWSN 14ds ... ~y 
the time Martha Stone filed Emily], the 
state had filled one of the more violent 
detention centers in the country beyond 
capacity with children who often hadn't 
actually broken the law. 

In 2005, Connecticut decriminalized 
FWSN so that in most cases, children 
could no longer be placed into deten-
tion merely for worrying t~eir parents. 
The population at all three centers has 
_dropped dramatically as a result. 

The biggest changes to th~ building 
are the most recent. In September 2008, 
New Haven finished construction on two 
new classrooms, an administrative wing, 
a weight room, two recreation rooms, a 
recreation office, and a gymnasium ;with 
high glass windows that fill the entire 
new wing with natural light. The extra 
space has given the Center more op-
tions for how to keep children occupied 
throughout the day. "These changes im-
pact the rest of the environment;' says 
Fitzgerald. "We build our programming 
so that kids can be in that area, exposed 
to the natural light as much as possible:' 

Fitzgerald speaks constantly about 
bringing light to the building, not just 
for the children, but for the staff who 
spend their days inside. One of the worst 
parts about working in the Center in the 
1990s, he says, was that no matter which 
shift you worked in the winter - 12am to 
Sam, Sam to 4pm, or 4pm to 12am - it 
would still be dark on the way to work, 
dark all day inside the building, and 
dark again when the shift was over. "You 
could go entire weeks without seeing re-
ally any natural sunlight;' he explained. 
"Can you imagine? And if the staff were 
so down because of this - how must the 
kids feel?" 

Fitzgerald i$ good at his job and the 
New Haven Center is one .of the best 
nationwide precisely because 'the super-
intendent makes it a point to imagine 
how the kids feel. Every other week, he 
has lunch alone with the children, using 
the time to ask what they would change 
about the Center. Often, Mirto says, 
Fitzgt;rald takes these suggestions. 

"Michael has been diagnosed as having 
a systolic heart mununr and an umbili-
cal herliia. Although he is in need of 
an operation, he has not yet received 
"t , 

Before Emily J, remembers Joe Mirto, 
the Center's veteran JDO, medical care 
was almost nonexistent. Mirto talks of-
ten of the years when the job was done 
differently. "We had a med box that we 
kept in the control room:' he says. "It 
wasn't kept locked. A lot of kids come in 
here on controlled substances - lithium, 
Ritalin, l)epakote. The kids would line 
up outside the window and weo yell out 
for him: 'Jimmy, it's time for your lithi-
um: We realized, if I'm a fifteen year old 
kid, I'm probably not too happy if that's 
being yelled out in front of everybody:' 

In conversation, Mirto is careful 
never to tell stories of specific children. 
He makes oblique references: Imagine if 
you were fifteen... When you come into the 
Center with mental health issues. . . Prob-
ably, -the references are composites - the



**Title: Juvenile Detention Center, New Haven**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
common tendencies of boys and girls he 
has seen over almost twenty years in the 
Center. But in his plainspoken way, the 
habit seems respectful, as though the 
children who confide in him have a right 
not to have their vulnerabilities shared 
with the world. 


Back then, medical care began and 
ended with that med box. About a third 
of the children were given no physical 
examination while in the Center. Doctors were only available a few days a 
week, so staff with no medical training 
• 
performed the exams instead. According 
to Stone's federal complaint, children 
were admitted to the general population 
of detainees «with significant communi-
cable diseases such as hepatitis, chicken 
pox, measles, and · staph infections, as 
well as conditions such as ring worm, 
lice, and· scabies" because there was nowhere to quarantine them. 


The consent decree brought major 
changes in the medical treatment given 
to children in the Center, according to 
Bill Carbone of the Judicial Branch. Doctors and nurses are now available around 
the clock in the medical suite, a small 
-
room that looks exactly like an elemen-
tary school nurse's office, complete with 
the requisite posters ("How to Prevent 
the Common Cold;'' 
'~bstinence lets 
you choose your future"). Medicine is 
SEPTEMBER 2010 
no longer dispensed by the line staff, but 
by a licensed nurse. · Yale psychiatrists 
regularly examine those on psychotropic 
medication. Every child is given a physical, and children in need are taken to 
dentists. For some, this is the first check-
up they've had in years. For others, it is 
their first check-up ever. 


Medical care was one of the easier 
things to improve· in . the building, it 
seems. Carbone, who controls most of 
the New Haven Center's budget, was 
((very insightful of the · need" for better 
healthcare, says F:itzgerald, and the superintendent was thankful for this. "You 
can't do this on the cheap;' says Fitzger-
ald. "It's kids lives we're talking about:' 


"Emily has not received any counseling 
juvenile Detention Center, New Haven 
or other mental health interventions. 
She has gone to bed crying at night." 


By the time a child reaches the New 
Haven Juvenile Detention Center, he or 
she has usually seen things that would 
drive most adults to therapy. Though detention isn't intended as a permanent residence, both Joe Mirto and Jack Fitzger-
ald understand that some kids don't want 
to go home. "Some kids are going home 
to things that are worse than what they 
have here:' says Mirto. "Mom may have 
five other kids. She might be 33, and I'm 
a fifteen-year-old kid and I come home 
at night and see her on the couch ... you 
know ... with a man. You can understand 
how that would make me feel:' 


Single mothers aren't the worst of it. 
A 2001 study published in the Review 
of Psychiatry . series found that over 
90% of children in juvenile detention in 
America have experienced at least one 
traumatic incident. Often, this includes 
physical or sexual abuse, or domestic, 
community, or gang violence. It should 
be no surprise, then, that depression and 
suicidal thoughts are common among 
youth in detention. Yet before Emily], 
children with mental health needs were 
not counseled - they were reprimanded 
for acting out. «From what I understand, 
fifteen years ago, it was a largely punitive 
system:' says Donna MacComber, Director of Social Problem Solving Training 
(SPST), a program that educates children 
at the New Haven Center about how to 
manage stressful situations. "There were 
very few therapeutic opportunities:' 


Today, an awareness of mental health 
and suicide prevention is behind every-
thing the children do. WELCOME TO 
DETENTION reads a letter taped to the 
desk on the intake room where children 
are sent when they first arrive. It continues: The first thing you need to know is that 
you are safe. You are going to be fine. 'We are 
25 


--- Page 26 ---

. 
here to help you. Welcome. -jack Fitzgerald. 
::;;,.. · 
''We try to make the process as comfortable as possible for the child, to explain 
,~l'l
'
J 
:~ -:~:.- . every -rep;' he says. "It's not supposed to 
~ ~- ? 
.:~ be p son:' Fitzgerald's own appearance 
echoes this. As he makes his way around 
the building, stopping to meet with children and go over paperwork with staff, 
he cl ps a white ceramic coffee mug with 
"MICI\:EY!" painted in bright red letters 
und 1 a picture of the grinning cartoon 
mou S"' It is difficult to feel scared of a 
gro n man toting Mickey Mouse. 


It is easier to be scared of other parts 
of the Center. Later in the welcome letter taped to the intake desk, the seventh 
thing a child needs to know is this: A staff 
person who is the same sex as you is going to 
do a strip search of you. No one is going to 
touch you. 1hey will have you go in the shower area and have you remove your clothes and 
observe you from several feet away. 1his is to 
make sure you have no injurT.es. The letter 
is calm, understanding, even comforting, but upsetting nonetheless. The same 
might be said of the Center itsel£ 


During intake, children are screened 
for traumatic events that may have occurred in the past. They are asked about 
scho :.1l, family and friends, as well as 
about their history with alcohol, drugs, 
. · and other red flags. "We aren't just looking for how they answer the questions 
verbally;' says Ezekiel, Fitzgerald's deputy. "We pay attention to how they say it, 
if th ·'re forthcoming:' 


What they're looking for, among other 
things, is how closely the child needs 
to be watched. In response to Stone's contention that the Center made no effort at 
suicide prevention, Fitzgerald installed 
a watch system. Next to every residential room is a small, circular metal "hit 
pad:' When children are in their rooms, 
a JDO is responsible for "the pipe;' a 
data recorder that looks like a flashlight · 
with no bulb at the end. Every fifteen 
minutes, the JDO must walk the line 
of rooms, looking through the doors at 
each child and touching the pipe to each 
hit pad. The pipe's internal data recorder 
keeps a history of the times that the pipe 
made contact with each hit pad. At the 
end of each day, the information in. the 
pipe is downloaded onto a computer that 
· cha 
he hits, showing Fitzgerald that 
- his c. 
· -"es are being cared for. Children 
26 
. who raise suspicion during their intake 
screening - through what they say, how 
they sit, whether they make eye contact 
- are checked every four minutes rather 
than every fifteen. And about once every 
two months, the Center has a child on 
"constant'' - acute suicide watch that requires a JDO to be within arm's length of 
the child 24 hours a day. 


Staff note how seriously Fitzgerald 
takes what he refers to as the most pervasive suicide prevention plan in the 
country. ''Jac;:k will never take a kid off 
constant;' says Ezekiel. "He doesn't feel 
he is medically trained to judge mental 
health with such high stakes, and so he 
will keep a kid on constant, even if the 
JDOs think the kid doesn't need it, until 
the child can be examined by a trained 
mental health professional:' 


What they~re looking or, 
among other 
things~ is 
how closely the child needs 
to be watched. 


Fitzgerald defends this paranoia. ''A 
kid doesn't have to say they have a plan 
to hurt themselves for me to put them on 
constant. If I feel he doesn't look right -
that's good enough for me:' The bottom 
line, h~ says, is this: "I am their guardian here. I am responsible not just to the 
court, but to their parents:' Because he 
has children of his own, Fitzgerald says, 
he tries to give other parents' children 
the same attention that he would want 
his kids to have if the situation were reversed. 


Ezekiel is more blunt: "Kids harm 
themselves;' he says. "If they're doubled 
up, they might harm each other. This 
way, they know we're always watching 
them:' 


The watch system is just a small part 
of what is now a facility-wide hyper-
awareness of mental health. The once-
idle afternoon hours have been filled 
with group counseling sessions and education programs developed by psychologists. These programs - Social Problem 
Solving Training ( SPST) and Trauma 
Adaptive Recovery Group Education 
and Therapy (TARGET) - encourage 
children to talk about their feelings and 
experiences and teach them how to best 
manage the two in a way that won't land 
them back in custody, or dead. 


Even before the Center started running SPST and TARGET in response to· 
the consent decree, Mirto say~, he operated under the philosophy that the children in the New Haven Center needed to 
be taught how to articulate their darkest 
thoughts. If a child acts out, he says, he 
rarely chooses to "punish" the child. "I 
rather talk you down - teach you how to 
calm down:' 


It is difficult to tell, in 2009, if Mirto 
really did have an awareness of mental 
health in the early 1990s, but the evidence is strong: of the more than fifty 
JDOs who work in New Haven, Mirto 
is the only one who has spent his career 
representing children in hearings when 
they act out in detention and face disciplinary measures, like solitary room 
time. Mirto insists on advocating for 
-. 
minimal punishment even for the children who are in trouble for disrespeCting 
Mirto himsel£ For this, he has earned the 
nickname "Crazy Joe": crazy, he laughs, 
because he is nearly impossible to anger. 


'"William has not been outside since 
being incarcerated except for a one 
and a half hour furlough for a fu-
neral and a preplacement visit." 


Outside the Center, a basketball court 
sits waiting for good weather. If it 
weren't for the fact that entering the 
Center's indoor gymnasium requires 
going through many locked doors that 
must be opened by staff, recreation 
here would feel like that in any middle 
school gym, complete with professional 
looking floors and a hoop for half-court 
ball. The walls are covered with standard 
blue gym mats for safe games of tag, and 
the ceilings are high, giving a sense of 
freedom to the place. The weight room 
adjacent to the gym looks like a small 
sports club: treadmill, bike, free weights, 
weight machines, and exercise balls fill 
the space. "The boys spend a lot of time 
here;' says Ezekiel. 


In the 1990s, recreation at the Center, if it existed at all, consisted of cards · · 
and outdoor basketball. Girls sat idly 
while boys monopolized the court. On 
cold days, there was nowhere to move 


--- Page 27 ---

around, so everyone sat idly, stadng 
at a TV in a room that might have also 
housed English class earlier that day. Because school and group counseling only 
lasts from about Sam to 4pm, Fitzgerald 
now schedules structured recreation to 
fill the hours between counseling and 
bedtime at 9 or 1 Opm. "We want you to 
be a kid here, too:' he says. "Recreation is 
an important part of being a kid. We try 
to create environments here where you 
can thrive, where it's not just basketball 
every day:' A typical monthly rec schedule rotates small groups around different sports and activities one might find 
at a summer camp: Knockout, Reading, 
Weight Room, Sorry, Checkers, Spelling 
Bee, Blob Tag, Crossword Puzzles, Wiffle 
Ball, Drawing, Obstacle Course. Shat-
. tered is the stereotypical scene of lifting 
barbells in a prison yard. 


Around the Center, rec rooms are 
filled with art supplies, Ping Pong tables, 
Guitar Hero, and board games. One 
locked cabinet holds real African drums 
- "two grand each, at least:' says Ezekiel 
- that the Connecticut Ballet uses on 
Monday nights when they visit the Center to teach the kids about African music 
and dane~. The Open World Leadership 
Center ~nds trips to New Haven for visiting dignitaries. Last year, the Chief Jus-
tice of Liberia came to speak to the children, says Fitzgerald. "That's like Chief 
Justice Roberts coming to speak in your 
classroom, ya know?, 


not been more than two hours a day. 
on many occasions it consisted 
of watching nature films, he has not 
been attending school." 


Every day, Mrs. Michaud begins Eng-
lish class in the Center with the same 
greeting: "Good morning my shining 
stars:' The classrooms at the Center look 
like a regular middle school, and the 
students are treated, to the best of everyone's ability, like they would be "on 
the outside:' In Michaud's room, rows of 
individual desks - grey metal tabletops 
and maroon chairs bolted together - face 
a SmartBoard that doubles as a slide projector. In the far corner, her desk is piled 
high with files, papers, and framed photographs of her family. The walls are covered with possible role models: Martin 
Luther King Jr, Gandhi, the Dalai Lama,, 
John F. Kennedy, Rodin. Everywhere, 
students are confronted with · people · 
meant to inspire them. 


' ~ 
' --1 
•• 
I 
I • 
' . 
• • 
" •• 
' ' 
• • • 
~ 
~ . 
, . .., 
"' 
I ' ' 
" 
..... 
couldn't flip t!teJ#,: and mushroom chairs 
-... 
·1 
with WeigH.,ts. ~n ·the 'bo~om so the kids 
wouldn~ttbro~ t~m:' says Olsen. "Then 
we had long. foJding tables,. and the kids 
would· 
.. pull .the · 'Sc.rews , out and they 
.. 
ot 0 
t s come tn : tre,.: . . 
ani;dark·~ Q<)f:~onduc,ive,to good learn-
on controlled substances, :·ing .. lhe yisu~·:aspects of this room are a 
lot brighter now:' . . , 
lzthtum, 
Rztaltn, 
Denakote. 
:]he 
'kidJ · ·he,r tir~~· d6Y· ?n· ~e; job.._ fearful of what 
r 
· ·. 
,.she m1ght find. She was ple~santly sur-
would line up outside tpe . pri$e~~ not ~y h,e~· ~i~ssto:om, but by the 
,. 
~dren >. "Th~y liked learning:' she re-
or him: ( immy, it's time . ~th re~~~ct.~ .. , <·~-·· "~· ·~· : 
l . h · 
' " 
.~ . 
~· · · . · Today, ahil4r~ ~e ·:, grouped based 
or your tt tum. 
. ... o~· behavior and ·.inaturity levels, not age 
f 
~ ~ 
· · ·or a~adeinic ·ability. B'ecause the average 
-·,. . :-cbild .. i~~ in the ~pt~~ for less than two 
# 
• ••• 
, · ... · ~kS; 
-~le~<.>ns ·. stari and end in a day:' 
. . 
This classroom didn't exist until Emily . ·says Ql~en~ ~~at .w,ay,: kids can pick up 
.._ 
·••. 
;.f. 
.... 
J "Before, we were tight:' says Fitzger.,. ·. . ~here .;Yfe .: aie ,, wi~q}lf feeling they've 
ald. "Your learning space was a in:ul~ · .rQis~d ' a l>}lnc1h pr(or; T~aching at the 
tipurpose room; you might have · been . . Cen~t · requir~s fleighUity.. "If a child 
in those rooms for sixteen hours ·a day.: , i doesr\t ~jte ~ell~ :we use . verbal cues:· 
doing recreation. It was not a school .en~ . sbe s~ys.- "We · do'"tliffere!ltforms of com-
vironment:' For kids with learning dis- · · .. muQicat:io.rt, so· tpe·kid,who's a struggling 
,r 
. (, 
abilities, spending rec time in a room ' . rea~er . C3.9· still .'succeed:' Olsen doesn't 
used for education made it difJicult to 
~se formal. testing~ .. ~hoo~ing instead to 
differentiate between the two. "Now,. you. · loo~ oyer ~er stu9ents' work to make 
have a classroom that looks like a ·real 
. ~ure they h~Ye ··urid,~rs~ood their lessons. 
classroom. It's normal. It promotes the 
·"A lot _of ~ese. ldcl~ ·~have a 'tough time 
mindset that what they're doing her.e is 
with forma! ~estiQg.:'The .word test brings 
•· 
real school:' 


Until 2000, "real school" would ·have 
been a stretch of a description. The Ne\Y _ edu<;ati~n~ ~nvir:pm~~nt-he has created. 
Haven Board of Education was responsi- ·, · ~1 went to ~y daughter's s~hool when we 
ble for the education of detainees. Today, · · 
_ d_esjgning ~e;· new classrooms,, he 
" . 
the teachers are staff of Area Coopera.:. . ·-~· . s,y.s .. · See.· the celor. of ·the. tile on these 
tive Educational Services, a private coin- . · .. tl.oors? -- Bri~t r,ello"' . .:...- it's so warm, 
pany that specializes in aUernative ~d , , so haP.PY:or He· poirits to the paint trim 
special-needs education. Darrylle Olsen,' · ~uad tlle_hall\Vays ~d,inside the class-
. ' 
the current math teacher, remembers ·· 
t:.Ooms: ~"Maioon and"Connecticut Blue, 
that the public school teachers who pre-··'. the same ·C9lOrS< that·, a}'e inside public 
ceded her at the Center assigned mostly .-· sch,ools across the· state. It looks like the 
"busywork out of old textbooks." Chil- ·.~":-outside world:. We w~ them to feel like 
dren were grouped by age or by school,.. .. their life -here is-aS' nor.lnal-as possible." 
.., 
J'-.._ -
grade: "a nightmare:' says Olsen~ because. : .. ~ 
.~en ._ 
. · sp~aks, as he so of-
kids were coming from vastly different · 'teJ{does, a~Ut· 
the children feel 
backgrounds. In order to focus the most- _· 
cop1fortable iQ detention, he makes dear 
ly-special-needs youth enough ~o be able·· .: ~~t even-the guilty'on~ :':._the ones who 
to actually teach something, Olsen ·real- .- .have ro~be~~ rap~, _or $hot at some-
ized early on the importance of having :'ODe,. and 
back 'in. detention on a 
the right surroundings. 


"First we had big, ugly ron nd tables 
with sand in the bottom so the kids. 
Violation of paiol~ .... aren't monsters or 
burdens inside· his walls. '!hey are sons 
and daughters .. Inside, 4etention, ironically,  Fitzgerald speaks of how much he wants the children to feel comfortable in detention, making it clear that even those who have been raped or shot, and are back in detention on a violation of parole, are not monsters or burdens within his walls. They are sons and daughters.




**A New Haven Juvenile Detention Center**
**Author: Ali Uleiner**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
•
cally, is the closest many of these chil-
dren will come to a normal childhood. 
"Rau1on has witnessed staff hurting 
children by bending their arms and 
legs until they cry, slamming them on 
the floor, and dragging them across 
the rug." 

Fitzgerald knows that most kids come 
to the Center fearful. "Their only glimps-
es of detention come from shows like 
Lockup Raw;· he says. In the 1990s, those 
fea.t;'s would have been justified. Perhaps 
nowhere are the changes in the New Ha-
ven Center as noticeable as in the use 
of discipline. Until Emily ] brought the 
practices to the attention of the courts, 
• the line staff in the Center were beating 
children as young as eight years old on a 
regular basis. "We used to restrain kids 
using very barbaric and crude meth-
ods;' recalls Joe Mirto. Training was 
purely physical: karate, jujitsu, submis-
sion holds. Mirto remembers working 
an overnight shift and being taken by the 
local FBI into a back classroom around 
three in the morning. "They taught us 
how to kick, punch, how to hit with the 
heel of our hand:' At the time, it was 
standard operating procedure. "We used 
to use something called an arm bar a lot. 
That's when ·you lift a child's arm behind 
his back, whichever arm you want, as far 
as you can go without breaking it:' 

Room confinement was the other 
major form of discipline before Emily J 
"If a kid swore at you in 1991, he or she 
was probably given 'room time;" says 
Mirto. «We'd use a method of punish-: 
ment called stacking. If you were a kid, 
and you told me to go reproduce myself, 
you got 24 hours of room confinement. If 
you told me to fuck off when I gave you 
room time, you'd get another 24 hours 
stacked on the first 24 for basically the 
same offense:' 

Staff in the 1990s resorted to violence 
and room time because they were not 
trained on how to treat the children as 
anything but criminals. "If the only thing 
a carpenter had was a hammer and nail;' 
explains Karl Alston, now deputy direc-
tor of juvenile residential services for 
CSSD, «that's all he would use. But if he 
had a full toolbag- his router, his screw-
driver, the hammer and nail, a saw - he'd 
be more productive. That's how we look 
at our staff. The more we give them tools 
to use, the better our environments will 
b ,,
e. 

Both Mirto and Fitzgerald are quick 
to point out that the Center how strives 
to minimize room time and physical 
submission. When Fitzgerald came to 
the facility as superintendent in 1999, he 
started by retraining the staff. "In reality, 
the JDOs are closer to your parent than 
your prison guard;' he says. "They need-
ed to start thinking that way, in order for 
the kids to start thinking that waY:' 

· Training is no longer on how to hit 
a child effectively. It was imperative· to 
Fitzgerald that staff be tra~ned "not tore-
act, but to interact. We spent more time 
on interaction, communication, avoid-
ing conflict. When they learned those 
concepts, it transformed the facility:' 

The job of a juvenile detention officer 
can lend itself to power trips, and some 
still have their moments, says Mirto. 
"Some staff think they're officers. We're 
not really officers. I'm a caretaker. I take 
care of your ld.ds:' 

Most of the boys who come through 
the Center have no positive male figure 
in their lives. It is paramount to Mirto, 
he says, that he act as a role model, not 
another disappointment. He is known 
throughout the Center for his hesitance 
to lay a }:land on a child. "Regardless of 
what your child may have done - mur-
der, rape, not going to school - I take 
care of your child. Do I get mad? Of 
course I do. Do I abuse them? No waY:' 

S FITZGERALD POINTS out often, the 
New Haven Center's dual accredita-
tion by the American Correctional Asso-
ciation and the National Commission on 
Correctional Health Care place it among 
the best in the nation. In his office, the 
certificates from the first time New Ha-
ven was accredited in 2003 hang behind 
his desk, so that guests who sit and face 
him cannot help but notice. 

His voice swells with pride when he 
talks about working on that first accredi-
tation. "When I was preparing for ACA, 
I called fifty facilities in the country that 
had been through the process to really 
learn how it was done and what we had 
to do:' Like many of those facilities, New 
Haven was motivated by a court order 
to make changes to the facility. But un-
like most, the Center, under Fitzgerald's 
leadership, decided to try for regular 
reaccreditation every three years. "We 
want to continually test ourselves against 
the national waters, to ensure that we are 
continually at the forefront of juvenile 
detention:' 

The accrediting organizations look for 
excellence in all of the areas where the 
Emily ] consent decree ordered change: 
living conditions, medical and mental 
health care, recreation, education, disci-
pline. And by those organizations' stan-
dards, thanks to the hard work of people 
like Jack Fitzgerald and to the empathy 
of people like Joe Mirto, the New Haven 
Center is nearly perfect. 

But what does it mean to be the per-
fect juvenile detention center? 
What 
does it mean to be the best of all the fu-
tures that parents fear for theit children: 
the best of all the places no one wants to 
'· 
end up? 

Group therapy and real classrooms 
and African drums can go a long way 
towards making a child forget that the 
rest of the world sees him as a criminal. 
But when beds made of plastic and not 
metal are a victory, when strip searches 
are routine and when privacy is an unre-
alistic wish - through no fault of Fitzger-
ald's, or Mirto's, or maybe anyone's at all 
- the shadow of being in an institution 
will always preclude some light from 
shining through. 

Nonetheless, it is important work to 
try to give children their youth back. And 
the detainees that Fitzgerald and Mirto 
care for are just that: children. They are 
young, and have been taught badly by 
the people and places where they grew 
up. Thanks to Emily ], the staff in the 
New Haven Center understand that it is 
someone's duty not only to teach these 
children but to teach them well. You are 
worth teaching, Fitzgerald seems to say. 
TNJ 
Ali Uleiner is a senior in Davenport College. 
THE NEw JouRNAL 


**To Be Remembered: A Quest for Zoological Nomenclature**
**Author: Zara Kessler**
**Page number(s): 30-31**

HIS SUMMER, a 75-million 
year old dinosaur skeleton was 
baptized the mojoceratops by 
Yale paleontologist Nicholas Longrich. 
If one Yalie made his mark this way, I 
thought, surely another can as well. 

A NEW GENUS 
OR SPECIES-GROUP 
NAME SHOULD BE SHORT AND 
EUPHONIOUS IN LATIN. 

I, Zara Kessler 
have decided to 
make a name for myself. To go down 
in history. To be eternally remembered. 
You'll find this nineteen-year-old in 
your textbooks one day. You'll search for 
this college sophomore in the depths of 
the jungle. You'll watch me swim by at 
the bottom of the sea, study me under 
your microscopes.· One day you'll write 
E. zarae in your notebooks. You'll mark 
A. kessleri on your tree of life. 

IN FORMING A SPECIES-GROUP NAME 
FROM THE NAME OF A WOMAN, A FINAL 
-A OR-E MAY BE ELIDED FOR EUPHONY, 
E.G., JOSEPHINEAE OR JOSEPHINAE 
(JOSEPHINE). 

I have set out to have a species 
named after me, to be memorialized 
by a zoological specimen. In the last 
two hundred years, about 1.8 million 
species have been named; and yet, still 
millions more await classification. Most 
such creatures will be stuck with banal 
titles, Latin words describing where 
they were found or what they look like. 
Some fortunate creatures will instead 
be named after people. And soon, one 
particularly lucky young species will 
bear my name. 

The honor of becoming a zoological 
namesake has been bestowed upon 
all types of living individuals, even 
laboratory-fearing laypeople like myself. 
J email Dr. Eric Sargis, Yale Professor 
of Anthropology and curator at the 
Peabody Museum of Natural History, 
to inquire about the ro·ute to Linnaean 
permanence. He responds with a single 
sentence: "People name species after 
distinguished colleagues (see etymology 
for Dryomomys szalayi in-attached), not 
themselves:' 

IN FORMING A ZOOLOGICAL NAME 
FROM A COMPOUND PERSONAL NAME, 
A ZOOLOGIST SHOULD CONSIDER 
USING ONLY ONE OF THE COMPONENTS, 
GIVING PREFERENCE TO THE BETTER 
Since 2005, Wheeler 
has helped christen 
.beetles or George 
Bush (Agathidium 
· bushi), Darth Vader 
(Agathidium vaderi), 
and Stephen Colbert 
( Agaporomorphus 
colberti). 

KNOWN, E.G. BAKER! (BENTHUNE 
BAKER), GUERIN! (GUERIN MENIVILLE) 

I may not be a "distinguished colleague" 
but I'm pretty sure this campus holds 
a couple of the sort. Unwi11ing to give 
up my quest, I set out to find someone 
who has already achieved taxonomic 
recognition. 

Enter Carl Zimmer, Yale lecturer, 
famed science writer, and namesake of 
parasitic 
tapeworm 
Acanthobothrium 
zimmeri (the genus name is typically 
set, leaving only the species name up for 
grabs). "It's really nice;' says Zimmer. "It 
gives me a surprisingly warm feeling to 
know that there's a tapeworm out there 
that's got my name:' Zimmer's Linnaean 
legacy A. zimmeris name was officially 
published earlier this year was the 
gift of Carr!e Fyler, a student who was 
inspired to become a parasitologist by 
Zimmer's book Parasite Rex. When she 
set about the detailed and highlyformal 
process of naming shark parasites a few 
years later, Fyler figured shea return the 
favor to Zimmer. 

Ziiruner doesn't take his taxonomical 
fame for granted: "It's neat to know 
that you're in the books somewhere, 
even if it's a parasitology textbook or 
something:' As for my own entrance 
into the books, though, Zimmer offers 
minimal assistance. 
He does admit 
that even Linnaeus, the patriarch of 
taxonomy, had some fun with his names: 
''Apparently, when he would describe a 
really noxious weed he would sometimes 
name it after his enemies:' Zimmer also 
narrows my competition when he reveals 
that, as far he knows, egomaniacal 
taxonomists are not allowed to name 
species after themselves. I'm relieved 
by the his confession that he would 
have trouble identifying A. zimmeri 
from among a lineup of tapeworms. 

Zimmer also has to cope with every 
seasoned namesake's fear of, dare I say it, 
extinction. If A. zimmeri were to die out, 
Zimmer admits, "You know I would be 
very sa
d))
Despite 
Zimmer's 
wisdom, 
he's 
unable to lead me far on my quest . . 
His tapeworm was a gift, and thus he 
has little counseJ to impart on how to 




**A Bitten Midge: The Quest for Taxonomic Immortality**
**Author: Kessler**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
A biting midge. Credit: United States Department of Agricture 
acquire a species without penning a 
scientific tome. 

IN FORMING A SPECIES-GROUP NAME 
) 
FROM YOUR OWN NAME YOU LL NEED 
A FRIEND. THAT FRIEND SHOULD BE 
A SKILLED IN THE RESEARCH OF TINY 
CREATURES, E.G. AN ENTOMOLOGIST OR 
"· 
PARASITOLOGIST. 

I 
need-· ~ to make some friends. I 
summon all my charm and cunning, and 
• 
I proceed. I must not solicit someone 
who's already achieved nomenclatural 
triumph but instead find someone who 
baptizes creatures himself. I try for 
Quentin Wheeler, Vice President and 
Dean at Arizona State University. And -
insect taxonomist extraordinaire. 

Wheeler is 
famous 
for leading 
celebrities into the taxonomic world, 
much to the chagrin of his more 
straight -laced colleagues. His retort 
is that he works in an underfunded, 
unnoticed field: "Why not spin it in such 
a way so that it brings media attention 
to the whole effort?" 

Hence, since 
2005, he's helped christen beetles for 
George Bush (Agathidium bushi), Darth . 
Vader (Agathidium vaderi), and Stephen 
Colbert 
(Agaporomorphus 
colberti), 
among many others. 

"President Bush phoned me up to 
thank me for the honor of having a · 
species named after him-that was a 
thrill-and actually followed up with a 
little handwritten note. And, I daresay-
SEPTEMBER 2010 
. 

these were slime-mold feeding beetles 
-so I like to say that this is probably the 
only time in the history of the Union 
that the word 'slime-mold' was penned 
in the Oval Office;' Wheeler proudly 
announces. 

I don't see why Bush and Colbert, 
whose names will be memorialized 
regardless 
of their 
entrance 
into 
zoological 
taxonomy, 
need species 
when so many of us underdogs want 
to be remembered. I'm also resentful of 
Wheeler's nonchalant comment that he's 
got around four or six species named 
after him. He has stopped keeping track. 

Zimmer also has to cope 
with 
every 
seasoned 
namesakes 
ear o > dare 
I say it> extinction . .l A. 
zimmeri were to die out> 
Zimmer admits> 
ccYou 
know I would be very sad. n 

He doesn't fail, though, to rub it in: "You 
know it's your little piece of immortality:' 

Yours if you can get it, Wheeler. 

But as would any noble crusader, I 
lay aside my jealousy and frustration 
and concentrate on the task at hand: 
persuade this patronymic patriarch to 
put zarae in the books. After 15 minutes 
on the phone, I finally pop the question 
to Wheeler: Let's just say I wanted to 
name a species after myself. How would 
I do it? 

"Do you have a checkbook handy?" 
he laughs. I'm on board, reaching into 
my pocket. Sure I'll pay twenty, even 
fifty, dollars for immortality. Sign me up. 
I'll give up Starbucks for a few weeks. 
Welcome to the world young T. zarae. 

"You know it's funny, I led a 
fundraising tour cruise to the Galapagos 
this spring. And one of the guests along 
on the yacht told rne and I haven't done 
it yet but I'm going to follow through-
she said she would gladly pay $5,000 to 
have a species named after her;' Wheeler 
explains. ·~nd I told her as soon as I 
found one elegant enough I'd be back:' 

Maybe I'll have to give up Starbucks for 
life . 

Or maybe I'll just have to give up. 

But Wheeler admits, though his price is 
high, he's not my only hope. Anyone who 
describes a species, follows the rules laid 
.. out by the International Commission on 
Zoological Nomenclature, and publishes · 
his work in the appropriate place, can 
be a taxonomist. "So frankly the only 
gatekeeper is that individual. Someone 
might do it for a pint of good beer, I 
don't know, it's entirely up to them:' 

If only I could find that person, l(:l be 
happy to provide him with several pints. 
Then again, marrying Wheeler might be 
a cheaper option. "I named one species 
after my wife and another one after my 
ex-wife!" he laughs. "So there's all kinds 
of possibility:• 

"So my best bet is to befriend 
someone who finds species often?" 

"Yes, absolutely the best way to go!" 

But Dean Wheeler, I want to plead, I 
was hoping you could be that friend. "Keep 
me in mind if you're naming any new 
species!" I make a last pathetic stab. 

"Will do. Absolutely." Wheeler's reply 
seems less than sincere. 

IN FORMING A ZOOLOGICAL NAME 
FROM YOUR OWN PERSONAL NAME, YOU 
NEED SOME CASH. A FEW HUNDRED 
THOUSAND DOLLARS WOULD BE 
HELPFUL, THOUGH YOU MAY BE ABLE 
TO GET BY WITH ONLY A COUPLE OF 
THOUSANDS.


---

Perhaps trying to avoid becoming my 
taxonomic sponsor, Wheeler later emails 
me a set of hyperlinks, which usher me 
• to my· next destination: organizations 
that formally sell species. 

First, there's a stop in Germany, 
which boasts BIOPAT (Patrons for 
Biodiversity), a nonprofit group founded 
in 1999. "Name a frog or an orchid!" 
flashes across my computer screen as I 
~rrive at the BIOPAT website. "Names 
are meaningless?' Not at all since a name 
identifies individuals:' it clarifies. "With 
a ~ingle donation of at least 2.600 Euro to 
BIOPAT e.V. you can eternalize a name 
of your choice by baptizing a newly 
discovered plant or animal species:' 

Despite this homepage, Dr. Jorn 
· Kohler, a zoologist at the National 
Hessian Museum, insists that BIOPAT 
isn't really selling anything: "It's a honor 
for support of nature conservation and 
biodiversity research via · a donation 
(acquiring funds for these fields is 
the major aim of BIOPAT):' But, as I 
browse the site's catalogue of species, 
it's crystal clear that for 2.600 Euro, the 
beetle, Penthoscarpha zarae, can be mine. 
Upgrade to 3.500 Euro, and I can instead 
christen, Milichiella zarae, a fifteen to 
twenty million-year-old fly species. A 
· Google currency converter computes 
that the cheaper beetle will cost me 
$3,843. Thanks, but no thanks. 

Hoping 
that 
Europeans 
attach 
a higher value to taxonomy than 
Americans do, I travel closer to home 
seeking a better deal. San Diego holds 
the Scripps Institution of Oceanography, 
a 
Name-a-Species 
program 
and a website asserting, "Every year 
collections staff and researchers discover 
new species of marine creatures. The 
cost to name one of Scripps's newly 
discovered species ranges from $5,000 
to $100,000:' I start to hope that with· 
a phone call to Greg Rouse, curator of 
the Benthic Invertebrate Collection at 
the Institution, something cheaper can 
be arranged for an enthusiastic Linneaus 
fan. 

Not exactly. Rouse explains to me 
that when he finds a new species, if it 
seems suitable, he turns it over to. the 
development office: "What we normally 
want is something that looks pretty good, 
that we have a good photograph of:' If no 



A slime beetle (shown above) was named after President Bush by scientist Quentin Wheeler. 
one purchases the species, Rouse doesn't 
delay the publication of his scientific 
paper nor does he lower the price to 
increase demand (apparently he's not 
in contact with the Scripps Economics 
department). Instead, he names the 
species himself. Since the Scripps project 
began in 2008, only one $10,000 worm 
and three $5,000 species have been sold. 
Rouse doesn't see the pricing scheme as a 
problem. The problem, he gripes, is that 
he underwater invertebrates, "People 
are mainly attracted to vertebrates. It's 
difficult to sell a worm:' When I press 
him to expound on the exorbitant 
pricing, hoping he'll offer me a discount 
for my valiant efforts, he only grows 
perturbed. "It costs a lot of money for us 
to name the species. It takes a lot of time 
and a lot of effort:' 

Apparently, finding an economical 
means 
of 
achieving 
taxonomical 
permanence also takes a lot time and 
effort, and I'm growing tired: Perhaps 
sensing my impatience, Rouse explains 
that, in the past, people have come to 
him, explaining their desire to name 
a species and support the project-but 
without the requisite 5,000-plus dollars. 
He soothes them by telling them not 
to fret but instead to start saving. With 
millions of species to name, a worm will 
be waiting when you can cough up the 
cash. 

But I've no patience for starting a 
piggy bank. Wapting my species and 
wanting her now, I'm contemplating 
· backtracking to bargain with Wheeler. 
THE NEw JouRNAL 



"Name 
orchid!" 
og or an 
ashes across my 
computerscreen as I arrive 
at the BIOPAT website. 
onto the aptly-titled Nameaspecies.com, 
the brainchild of 24-year-old Hunter 
Williams. 

When 
the 
website 
loads, 
immediately see her. A charming tan-
colored midge. For $500 she's mine. For 
$500, I can have Telmatogeton zarae, a 
two-winged fly from Iceland. She's not 
pretty, enchanting, or particularly exotic. 
She also doesn't cost the fifty dollars I set 
out to spend. But I have four months 
until Chanukah. Just enough time to 
convince my parents that all I want for 
the holidays is to be memorialized by 
taxonomic offspring. 

While completing a Master's Degree 
at 
Cambridge 
University, 
Williams 
became fascinated by the fact that his 
-
friend, a .paleobiology PhD student, had 
the chance to name some species. But 
Williams never garnered a namesake 
for himself, he laments, because his pal 
soon switched fields. Williams realized 
that graduate students, always in need 
of a little extra cash, name many of the 
world's newest species and got the idea 
to launch a site to sell more affordable 
species names. "I thought- there was 
a real opportunity for a retail way for 
average people to be participating and 
supporting science;' Williams says. 

Finally, someone has heard my wallet's 
cnes. 

"I wound up;' he continues, "only 
being able 
to find 
one scientist, 
Norwegian 
entomologist:' 

The 
Norwegian handed over information 
about a handful of insects he needed to 
name in his next paper, and Williams 
agreed that he would give him a sizeable 
portion of the proceeds, which due to 
William's focus on accessibility and 
the species' lackluster natures, would 
be meager: "I didn't-think people were 
going to be willing to spend more than 
' 

a few hundred dollars for a microbe or. 
a midge:' Nameaspecies.com launched 
in August 2008, to the delight of bargain 
species-shoppers like myself. 


But the fate of young T. . zarae is 
less delightful. Midway thrbugh our 
conversation, Williams admits that none 
of the initial species up for sale sold, 
perhaps due their lack of "sexiness:' 

Had I clicked Telmatogeton, I would have 
found that she's been removed from the 
website's inventory. In Jact, none of the 
website's species are up for sale any more. 
The Norwegian scientist published his 
paper; the nameless flies were baptized. 
Williams is now a strategy consultant 
in Shanghai, lamenting the pending 
extinction of his website: "It's a concept 
that is currently in mothballs:' Goodbye 
T. kesslerae. Good thing I hadn't ordered 
the personalized stationery yet. 


So what, Mr. Williams, should a 
weary traveler with a college student's 
budget do about her aspirations for 
taxonomic immortality? 

"Meet some grad students who are 
in the right kinds of fields and get to be·· 
their girlfriends - that may be a pretty 
good waY:' 

A NEW GENUS 
OR SPECIES-GROUP 
NAME 
IS ALL BUT IMPOSSIBLE TO 
ACQUIRE FOR ONESELF CHEAPLY. 

I'm ready to log onto Facebook 
to scrutinize the profiles of graduate 
students 
in 
paleobiology 
and 
entomology. And then an email brings 
me within sight of the promised land, 
swarming with bugs and beetles. It's 
the messianic Hunter Williams, hailing 
from Shanghai. He wonders if I want 
to be put in contact with Iiis friend the 
Norwegian entomologist. "If you would 
like a species named after you and do 
not mind that it is a midge, he might be 
willing to oblige:' 

Yes 
please, 
pretty 
contact 
the Norwegian. I reply immediately. 

After weeks of anxious waiting and 
number of insistent reminders, 
Williams finally fulfi11s his promise. 
Apologizing for his tardiness (he's been 
busy at his real job), Williams copies 
me on an email to the one-and -only 
Professor Saether, requesting that the 
Norwegian entomologist speak with me. 

Microscopic bugs and parasites again fly 
through my daily thoughts. But pleading 
emails from Williams and from myself, 
remain unanswered by the Norwegian; 
perhaps Saether deems neither of us his 
"distinguished colleagues:' 

I've been on the road towards 
taxonomic permanence for over two 
months, and I don't feel any closer to 
the zoological Holy ·Grail than when 
I began. Late one November evening, 
I send Saether one last beseeching 
email, for closure more than anything 
else. Then I purge all memories of the 
Norwegian and his midges. 

I wake up the next morning to find 
Saether's name in my e-mailbox and 
curse my rash actions of the previous 
night. What kind of crusader gives up on 
a quest? When did I lose my zoological 
zeal? My heart beats as I open up what 
just may be my acceptance letter into the 
world of taxonomy. 

"I did not answer you previously 
since I was quite busy and I did not 
have anything to say except the whole 
business seems to have been a failure;' · 
Saether's message opens. I pray that the 
next sentence reads Nevertheless would 
you prefer to bestow your name on a midge 
from Iceland or would one from an island 
in the South Atlantic better suit your tastes? 

It does not. Instead, the Norwegian 
entomologist launches into his own sad 
tale. A couple of years ago, he officially 
bid adieu to the world of science, and, 
in his retirement, lost his funding. 

Post-retirement and still christening 
little bugs, Saether hesitantly entered 
the world of species selling as a way 
of amassing money for his work. But 
when no one wanted to buy his midges, 
he baptized them himself. Changing 
their names now would be an arduous 
process. 

Saether makes no offers to name a 
species after me and, in fact, he seems 
to be contemplating withdraw! from 
commercial taxonomy all together. 

When I close my laptop, there is only 
one word of his email that lingers in my 
rnind: retirement. 

A 
NEW 
GENUS 
OR 
SPECIES-GROUP 
NAME IS NOT ALL THAT IS OUT THERE. 

To save the day, I turn to Bond. Jason 





--- Page 34 ---

• 
l 
• 
• 
• 
• 
" 
, . 
• 
• 
. 
., .. 
• 
r 
. 
• 
• 
' 
' 
. 
' 
. 
~ . 
. 
. 
Bond. He's a s~ienttst, he Jja.ou~S, spedes, ~· . tciion~inical community doesn't find 
and maybe, just m,ay.be, be's the OI;l~ )Vho~ll :· ... ·me, . and the publications for which I 
I 
):.,. 
' • 
• 
• 
name mine. I first enter· )1egotiations 
work, distinguished, famous, or wealthy 
•" 
1' 
1 
• 
· 
•', 
with Bond, a biOlagist .. ,at ~East ,Caroli,na · ·enough, I'll find another means of 
• 
• 
• 
University, · whi~e 
:~aiting _,.fur 
the. ·. immortality. 
! 
~ • 
~ 
Norwegian to aU.s~er 'his· .email . . Before · · . I end up paying only. $18.95 for 
Wheeler presented --Colbert with his · · :rr. · za.t:ae. 
I order her online, and 
( 
beetle, Bon·d had gifted ·pim;an ~achnid · :-: immediately' receive her Birth Certificate 
Bond baptized .~.A. · stephencolb~rti after: .a: ·· .. hi PDF. form, to print out as many times 
spider named f0t; Neil Yo.ung·provpkep . as I. desire. 
Colbert to complain.' on ·national: .. .TV . 
"Let it be known that the star located 
• 
that he wasn't'l;>eipg dg~tfully honored at ·RA 00:25:14.030 and Declination 
by the scientific ·.com~nity. ·If ·Bo,nd · F-01~49:58.14 will hereby be known as T. 
heeded Colbert's· cries ·,f<>r tax.()nomic~ . W:rae:' the page proudly reads. 
renown; perhap-s ·he ,might al,~(> re~pond . . . . ' Months ago, a friend o{ mine had 
to mine. As long as. the ~ritt_en ,tcile of.... .s.qggested star .naming, open to any 
my taxonomical travels is ~b1e, ~c;>·.gar-ner 
~;web user for an affordable price, as an 
him enough press>that is. :. "l'm
. ~.lw~ys .· 
allu·ring alternative to species hunting. 
sort of game .fO:r .. a' ginuniFk. or ~wo if , · Offend~d at the suggestion that I might 
it has the potential .for _.highlighting · ·. b~ . unsuccessful in my taxonomical 
the importance · of ·. biodiversit)i· · · ~d quest;· · I 
banished it, cursing the 
• ' 
I 
~ 
• 
taxonomic research · 'and .that . sQr~ .. of .individual's brazen attempt to distract 
•• 
thing;' he says. I£ I .ca~ publish ~)r quest 
~ . no.ble crusader of Linnaeus. But with 
on a large enough 5c~e,- rp.y odds look 
a · cpllection of failed mentors lying in 
good. 
. 
. 
. ., · ·: : ·· · . : . . . the ·dust and the slim wallet of a college 
< 
• 
• 
H 
0 
I rush out and pt~ure my tale a.spQt. sttJ:dent, . christening a star emerged as 
• 
• 
in the next . issue ~·~ ·rbet Neiv Jourf14/._.· I . . tile. 
c mast brilliant plan. Literally. Of 
can already picture s .. tgis' face whei:l he 
.. course, just one name. came to mind: T. 
. 
. 
. 
cracks open the: magazine only to.-find. 
zarae.: Linnaeus would be so proud. 
that, lo and behol~i; ;.~~ spider has he'en , · , · :: B()nd later circles back to tell me that 
christened T. kess~:·· I<excitedly e1l.1aiJ.·; he· t:inderstands my financial woes and 
. Bond to tell. him that soon all of.· Yale·.·' would be willing to compromise on a 
will be reading ef hii· spiders: Hop'~g . modest 'Contribution and a widely read 
to cement my chances for success; I . · article as payment for a species. But I 
mention that. I'll stilEshop my pieCe-·; to · don't need his creepy crawlers. I've gone 
-. 
I 
some Manhattan pu.bllcatiorts and tha.t . cosmic. 
. 
I'll also be willing to pay:.sdrne fee fc;}r iny 
T. zarae is not a parasite, a spider, or 
entrance into the an~~s..of:zoology. · 
.a ·midge. Younameastar.com won't even 
But apparently, .campus publjcatiOI)s· .let me italicize her name. I can't locate 
can't compare to the Qplbert Sho~: · . niy celestial child in the night sky. But 
• 
..&. ' 
•• 
.. 
Bond's response·· doe$n't;.~ mention Ou:r· ·- sh~'s mine. Forever. 
previous plan to ·bart~r pul:m~ity for ·a .. ·· ·· .. T. zarae doesn't live or breathe. You 
personalized spider .. .Instead· he assures . won't find her listed in your biology 
me that for $1 ;500 ( th.e ·price his If\$.. , textbook or buried in the depths of the 
• 
• 
• 
spider went fpr.·: at· ·. an· _··:auction), an · jungle. Instead, she's high up in the night 
arachnid can be mine. _If ! prefer goods .. · . s~ a beacon of hope for lost travelers. 
to cash, I can ~~~o pur~bas~ a $3,000 . She_. shines above Sargis' New Haven 
Apple Dual Qua~- Core Machine for his • ab,ode, Saether's Norweigan lab, and 
lab: "Sometimes.with a little treativity it·· .... Bend's North Carolina office. T. zarae . 
• 
• 
• 
can be easier to C()J11e up witfi~on;teth~ng ·· . ~~'t be squished under a shoe or served 
like a computet' ra~er "th~ · ·Ca8h,". he 
mi a plate. 
concludes the e:.fhail. 
·-_ .... 
'~-~. 
· 
And T. zarae can never go extinct. 
l. ,t.. •• 
• 
I like to thitik of myself -as. creative, . 
· · 
• 
• 
but so far that .trait -has y~t · to spawn· 
· 
computers. I pql~ly explain . ~o B~d TNJ 
that I don't have.fhe fi:nandal·resotirces · .Zara K~ssler is a junior in Ezra Stiles Col-
for his games. 
· 
is enou.g~. If the · lege . 
34 
• 
• 
• 
, 
..,. 
• •• 
~ . : 
• 
• 
• 
• -
. 
• • 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
THE NEw JouRNAL 
• 


**Facsimile of the certificate memorializing Zara Kessler for all time, or until T. zaraes supernova.**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 35**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
Facsimile of the certificate memorializing Zara Kessler for all time, or until T. zaraes supernova. 
-
SEPTEMBER 2010 
35 
• . ' 
. ' 
• • • 
.... 
•• 
" .. 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Kate**
**Page number(s): 36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
ERHAPS I WILL BE a teacher when 
I grow up. 
I taught this summer and it 
. was wonderful. There was Ryder, who's 
tiny, and writes with neat handwriting, 
and J enna, who walks that fine line 
between popular and kind. There's 
Raheem, who, at eleven years old, is an 
adorable lump, and Jorge, who doesn't 
know how to be cool, who has the most 
earnest eyes and the most staggering 
optimism. 

When 
you're 
a 
teacher, 
each 
day brings rollicking surprise and 
comforting 
consistency. 
You 
read 
sentences about cars made out of 
purple pizza sauce, about instruments 
of cow bones that a dinosaur plays. You 
get used to the student who raises her 
hand every time, and you get used to 
the student who wishes he were a fly on 
the wall so he could just, please, listen, 
without being asked to speak. 

I adored the children I taught. I was 
stunned by the curve of their learning 
and the depths of their hearts. I thought, 
daily; that I had the most wonderful job 
in the world, that 'I could do it forever. 
But then ·came the nagging Yale 
Voice. The nagging Yale Voice that says, 
Kate, you need to run the school system. 
You can teach for two years - Teach For 
America, obviously--- and then you can 
go to law school, and then you can be 
the superintendent .... 

This is the voice that puts the word. 
"just" before the word "teach;' the 
voice that asks if it's the "best use" of 
my education, the voice· that suggests 
that I'd be bored by the daily grind of a 
seventh grade classroom. 

But teaching is harder than Yale 
exams. Teaching is the hardest job I've 
ever done. You need to be on. You need 
to be on from the moment you walk in 
at eight thirty, thinking you've got half 
an hour unt'H the kids come and then 
realizing they're already arrived. You 
need to be on at lunch. You can't just 
corral and silence them, because you 
want them to talk. You want to smile 
enough but not too much and you 
want to be real, but not like a friend. You 
can't swear. You lose your first name . 
You're trying to keep up with this flock 
of chatty h:uman hummingbirds, and 
your feet hurt. You wonder if they won't 
learn if you make jokes. You wonder if 
they won't learn if you're too serious. 
You wonder if they won't respect you if 
you are too kind; you wonder if they'll 
hate you if you're stern. You can't go 
out at night. You've got to sleep. You get 
home hungry, and tired, wishing you 
had the ener~y to run, or to talk, but 
you are beyond exhausted. And in the 
morning, it all begins again. 

R MAYBE,· I'll be a writer when I 
grow up. I think writing is a high 
form of magic. A writer gets to send 
pictures to your head, like telepathy. 
A writer can conjure those slippery 
sliver-memories: she can bring you the 
wet-fresh sumrrier camp art room, the 
lemon-salt air of a laundry machine, the 
spice of your aunfs kitchen. 

So I proudly told a friend the other 
morning that I would bartend when I 
graduated from Yale. 

I was as bold as Kerouac. I told 
him I'd travel the country, hitting up 
six states in one year, six new bars. I(l 
stand each evening pouring drinks and 
drinking in stories. ICl write by day, 
observe by night. I'm not sure when I'd 
sleep, or where. I would eat peanuts and 
pretzels for meals. I'd have bags beneath . · · 
my eyes. My· hair would get curlier, 
messier, and my clothes might fray. I felt 
brave just thinking about it. 

THE NEw JouRNAL 





--- Page 37 ---

Fifteen minutes later, 
sitting in 
lecture, I started to fill out an application 
for Bain & Company a multi-national 
management consulting firm. I couldnt 
even wait until class ended. And · while 
I ignored my professor's lecture on 19th 
Century Mexican immigration, I crossed 
the border between Dreams I Have and 
. 
Goals I Don't Quite Understand. Before 
• 
I was even finished listing my previous 
employment history for Bain, . I had 
' 
opened up an application for Boston· 
Consulting Group, too. I'd been getting 
emails about them for weeks it felt 
concrete and proactive to plug myself 
into the forms online. Something about 
them felt safe. . I could imagine the 
skyscraper I'd work in, as a consultant. 
I could imagine the outfits I'd wear. I 
• 
know people who do it. I know people 
who -love it. I figured that, in theory, 
I could love it, too. And it seemed so 
together. 
And while I ignored 
my pro essors lecture on 
19th century Mexican 
immJgration> I crossed 
th~ border between · 
Dreams I Have and 
Goals I Dont 
uite 
Understand. 
But in my three years of college, 
-
I've dropped out of Intra -Economics 
and First-Order Logic. I think I'd be 
sad that I couldnt title the "incentives" 
section of a management case report 
"Good things!" and that there wouldnt 
be time to hear the 'highs and lows' 
of all my co-workers' days amidst the 
New York abustle. I think I'd get lost in 
imagining stories about my clients-
wondering whether or not the CEO of 
the Nature Conservancy we're working 
for has a favorite place in Central Park. 
I think I might end up turning a page of 
OOO,OOO,OOO's into cute little centipede 
armies. It's not that I cant do serious 
work. It's just that, a lot of the time, I 
want my serious work to be correcting 
Tales of Centipede Armies, by Josh, 
SEPTEMBER 2010 
' 
Grade 3. I want it to be writing a novel 
about a high-up executive who meditates 
• 
at lunch in Central Park. 
But I'm still uncertain. Am I following 
my heart, · or am I· just postponing 
adulthood merely playing with words, 
teaching stories to children? 
. of one of the lauded institutions of 
the East, where just forty years ago, 
smart meant rich and diverse meant 
Congregationalist; here at Yale, we 
are cushioned by a legacy of prestige, 
• 
manuscripts, and ivy . 
• Our collegt; lives are full of options. 
-Instead of picking classes, we "shop:' We 
FEW WEEKS AGO, science journalist 
gettwoweekstohonedownourneurotic/ 
• 
• 
.... .... £ Marantz Heing, in her New 
lovely wish lists and spreadsheets from 
York · Times feature "What Is· it About 
twenty classes to eight, then eight to 
Twenty Somethings?"wrote that we young 
five. If, when the semester starts, there's 
folks are curly-queing our way past the 
one we dont like, we can .usually drop 
"lockstep march toward adulthood" 
it. Choices abound, and they don't stop 
that our parents may have expected. 
at academics. Be you a poet, politico, or 
Jobs are hardet: to find. We have broken 
prankster, a gamer or a goalie, an actor 
the go to school, get a job, get married 
or artist, there's a campus group to suit 
• 
pipeline of the past. Blogs, radio shows, 
you. 
newspapers and magazines joined the 
We pick our suitemates. 
conversation. Everyone was talking 
We pick our suites. 
' 
about our broken career ladders, our 
We pick our meeting times on Doodle 
uncertain futures, our supposed fancy-
polls, and if we don't like them any more, 
' 
free vision about growing up. Heing did 
we switch them with a last-minute text. 
not tell me whether or not I wanted to be 
We pick our dining halls- Commons? 
a teacher, or a writer, or a consultant. She 
Calhoun? Hall of Graduate Studies? 
did not tell me much that I didn't already 
Then, falafel balls or turkey burgers? 
know. But Heing assured me that, in my'' 
So, when we graduate, we want to· 
uncertainty, that I was normal. 
pick. We want control over which job 
For ·most of us at Yale, it's not that 
we get. We want it in just the right city, 
we're uninterested in getting a job. We 
with just the right boss and co-workers, 
are, in general, quite motivated, and 
just the right salary, just the right "fit:' 
pretty damn stressed about finding 
But career ladders are just that ladders; 
something to do after senior year. It's 
they start at the bottom and this isn't 
just that we're not ready for our Final 
something we're used to. 
Answer. We're convinced we don't need 
We're stressed because we're used to 
the job just yet rather, we're looking . endless choices, and we don't want to 
ahead to the next few years. 
settle for anything less than Just Right. 
But we're the exception. As soon 
For the most part, we don't have to. I've 
as Heing's article had come out in 
got time to find my Just Right. This is 
the New York Times Magazine, been 
an unfair freedom, and I know I deserve 
analyzed on Slate, and discussed on 
it no more than anyone else. But I will 
National Public Radio, · folks made the 
honor it, as best I can, by doing the work 
point that these were elite journalists 
that I love in this moment. I will try to 
and scholars talking about a very small 
help others, and I will recognize the 
pool of Americans. Center for American 
value of my opportunity. 
Progress blogger Matthew Yglesias, 
I'll work with my options. I will 
for instance, wrote that the deluge of 
teach about writing, I will write about 
media coverage was myopic. He argued 
teaching, I will make purple pizzas and 
that' Heing's argument applied only to 
orchestrate dinosaur bands. And I will, I 
graduates of selective universities that, 
hope, be happy. 
for the majority of Americans, getting 
a job to support oneself or one's family 
was enough, and that "finding oneself" 
while exploring a few career paths was 
just not an option. 
Yglesias rightly nabs the unfair 
privilege of Yalies. We're graduates 
TNJ 
Kate Selker is a senior in 
College. 
Davenport 
37 
I
• 


**Title: Icing (noun):**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 38**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
ic-ing [ahy-sing]

The act of administering a Smirnoff Ice to an unsuspecting bro, thereby forcing him to chug the entirety of the sugary malt beverage whilst down on one knee:


Etymology:

In the olden days, attempting to buy Smirnoff Ice was a clear giveaway that you were either underage, or buying for someone who was. It has the same alcohol content as light beer, only it tastes like a liquid fruit rollup. But the demographic of Smirnoff Ice drinkers has been drastically altered thanks to a guerilla drinking game gone viral.


The exact origins of Icing are unknown, but it is rumored to have emerged sometime last spring, first gaining traction amongst fraternities in the South and growing into a nationwide phenomenon. The premise is simple: if a bro hands you a Smirnoff Ice, you must assume the kneeling position and down the bottle's contents before standing up again. But, if you happen to have an Ice on your person when a bro attempts to Ice you, then you can counter with an "Ice block," forcing your attacker down on his knees to chug both beverages. It's like an ongoing game of tag, only you're not "it" ... you're "Iced."


Rejecting an Icing is a fraternal faux-pas - a far cry from the days when drinking Smirnoff Ice was considered lame. But the phenomenon of Icing has spread beyond Greek walls, inflicting many an innocent and unsuspecting peer or colleague. By now, you may have even witnessed an Icing yourself or heard the term thrown around in casual conversation ("Yo, I got iced so bad"). Even hipsters aren't safe, as the trend has taken hold among them, too. As one likely lax-er laments on the blog, BroBible.com: "Hipsters have taken this shit over. Only the most epic bro icings will (now) get the attention they deserve." So learn well, and learn fast, as we guarantee Icing will be coming soon to a social group near you.

Some of the more epic Icings are hard to beat, (e.g. Icing a runner who has just finished a 5K). But there are still plenty of opportunities to get your Ice in the books. Some possible plans of attack:
1) Ice a tour guide
2) Ice your T.A. when you hand in your reading response
3) Dress in a black robe and Ice eager juniors
4) Tell freshmen they've been invited onto the set of "College Musical" and Ice them all!

Some final tips: have good form while chugging your Ice - keep your back straight, knee sturdy, arm raised, never pause, never spill. Remember, dignity is key.

And remember: Please Ice Responsibly.


**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 39**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
r:/) 
tTl 
1'1:1 
o-j 
~ 
t:l:l 
::0 
1-l 
0 
I.J.l 
\D 
• 
. 
-



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
-·· . 
...... 
.. . 
~-. . 
·. . . ··:·. . 
·w· ·. e.
· II· 
·~ 
... ~
·· ... h_. .. ,.,~ .l·e
· ... · w... .. 
· e·· ·. · w· · ·~o 
.. :::·n·.. '~ IJ.: 
... ·.·e· · 
· · 
· 
h··:.::. -~ry ~,:.; ·'4'- a· 
··~t· ~ ·n:: 'y
· .. 
·r;
. -,::·N
·· .·' ·~· 
.-· , ·m· .·· ·····a· 
· .. e· .· ~· ·n
· ···.g 
.. ·· ... · 
:ift:it'· 
: 
· . · .. 
-
m: 
.. · 
:.·~ 
- ... 
· .. :· " 
~--
-·· · ·.-
: -
--
> 
it:' 
: ~~ · 
~::w.:~.
. 
·.;,: 
---··-
~ -.. ··· · ·L-1· -
- ~~ 
~ 
. . ... 
.· . .. : 
. . 
. . . 
. · .. : 
:-~ "' 
~ :'lAS'·. 
,. 
;~ · ... '• 
. -: 
·.· .. 
' .. 
... 
. ... 
·:~ 
6 
• .. • 
.. •• 
would 
love, to s~ee you· The New Journa.t is looking· for innovatlv.e writers, · : demigodst 
designers. 
ic photographerst artistes extraord:inaires business 
, and interested, interesting Yalies in gen.e~l .. lf one of.~ the above app ie:s to 
' 
.· 
·,.au. come to one of our two snappy 
. izational meetings or can us • 
" 


