Publication date: 09/05
Volume 38, Issue 1

**Title: Orthodox Jewish Students at Yale**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
osh Baraban had the automatic motion detector in his suite's bathroom removed so that the electricity would not be automatically triggered during Shabbat. Zvika --· - Krieger rarely gets to see his best friend's a cappella group perform because the shows are usually held on Fridays and . always use microphones. Sarah Raymond . has been left in the frigid darkness of High Street on a Friday night when the gates of Old Campus are already electronically locked. She will not use her electric keycard and unlike the residential colleges, the Old Campus gates ~re not equipped for special Shabbat keys. 
Beginning on Friday night, a small group of Orthodox Jewish stuents redefines sacrifice by making simple changes in their · ·daily lives. They believe that God . . . meant for them to act this way, to : live one day in the week without effecting change, even at Yale. 
he physical traces of an Orthodox presence at Yale have only risen to prominence over the past several years, due to a flurry of events affecting Jews on campus. The first was their admission. Yale only began to admit Jews in the 1920s, and then only nominally, limiting spaces for undergraduates with quotas hovering around ten percent. When Morris Sweetkind applied to pursue graduate work in the Yale English Department, a professor named Tucker Brooke gave him this advice, "Look, Sweetkind. You're a good student, but we've never had a Jew. Don't apply. It's just a waste of time." 
Two decades later, in 1946, Yale tenured the University's first Jewish professor, Paul Weiss of the philosophy department. And by 1970 one out of every six professors was Jewish. Between 1970 and the late 1990s, the presence of Jews on campus was felt socially and academically, as Hillel, founded in 1941, and the judaic studies department established themselves as significant elements of Yale's repertoire. Up to that point, the brief history of Jews at Yale reveals an obvious trend: growth. 


ut in 1997, the community was stunted (and stunned) by the "Yale Five,"a 1997 juridical rebellion of five Orthodox freshmen who sued the University for refusing to provide same-sex housing accommodations they deemed necessary to uphold their belief that men and women should not reside together until marriage. As the Yale Daily News reported on September 24, 1997, in an article entitled "Lawyer for students calls Yale ~intolerant,"' the court case polarized the campus: "The issue has raised a firestorm of controversy on campus, as some in the Yale community have thrown their support behind the students while others including other Ort:hod·ox Jewish students and faculty· -.members dismiss the :-,' clai1;TI_s - ~-s groundless." 


The affair became a political debacle. The official legal claim of the "Yale Five" contended that Yale's housing policy violated the Sherman Anti-Trust Act by tying together the businesses of education and housing. But supporters of the Orthodox students further vilified Yale, arguing the institution d_id not · support religious tolerance and was violating the basic civil liberties of the students. The personalities involved fueled the fire. Defense lawyer Nathan Lewin, along with Rabbi Daniel Greer, a father and uncle to defendants and a prominent ultra-Orthodox New Haven Rabbi, garnered national media attention with public conservative insult, even going so far as to call Yale's commitment to student life "phony." But on December 28, 2000, the "Yale Five" became the Yale zero when the Second Circuit Court of Appeals upheld a 1998 U.S. District Court decision, ruling that the plaintiffs could have selected to attend another university if they felt Yale's housing policy violated their religious convictions. The January 12, 2001 announcement of the verdict in the Yale Daily News stated, "The ruling has probably ended the students' legal battles, much to the relief of the Yale Orthodox community." 


But even if damaged their vision of what the community of Orthodox students at Yale stands for. Zvika, an Orthodox student who volunteers at the admissions office and actively recruits Orthodox Jewish students, sees first-hand the detrimental effect the court case had on the public perception of Jewish community and identity at Yale. Some Orthodox students will not consider Yale, he says, going so far as resentfully refusing to visit: "People will say, 'Oh; you go to Yale. Do you live in the dorms?' The Yale Five is a huge stigma we still have to fight