Publication date: December 3, 1993
Volume: 26
Issue number: 3


**Position: Name(s)**
PUBLISHER
Rosita Choy
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Jose Manuel Tesoro
MANAGING EDITOR
Jay Porter
BUSINESS MANAGER
Chrysi Schinkopf
DESIGNER
Caroline Kim
PRODUCTION MANAGER
Joshua Civin
PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR
Katie Brandi
ASSOCIATE PUBLISHER
Monica Fong
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
David Green
Suzanne Kim
ALUMNI DIRECTOR
Susan Comins
STAFF
Joshua Auerbach • Ekna Cherney • Sarah DiGiulio • Regina Galin • Jackie Goldberg • John Gorham • Laura Hodes • Bri Lumpkin • Edward Kim • Annette Kirche • Melissa Moskof • Kai Schukr •
• Elected to staff November 27, 1993
Board Members and Directors: Edward B. Bennett III • Constance Clement • Peter B. Cooper • Andy Court • Brooks Kelly • Patricia Pierce • Kathy Reich • Fred Strebeigh • Thomas Strong
Friends: Anson M. Beard, Jr. • Edward B. Bennett, Jr. • Edward B. Bennett III • Blair Bennett • Paul S. Bennett • Gerald Bruck • Jonathan M. Clark • Louise F. Cooper • Peter B. Cooper • Jerry and Rae Court • David Freeman • Geoffrey Fried • Sherwin Goldman • Brooks Kelly • Roger Greenwood • Andrew J. KuVleski, Jr. • Lewis E. Lehrman • E. Nobles Lowe • Peter Neill • Julie Peters • Fairfax C. Randal • Nicholas X. Rizopoulos • Arleen and Arthur Sager • Dick and Debbie Sears • Richard Shields • Thomas Strong • Elizabeth Tare • Alex and Betsy Torello • Allen and Sarah Wardwell • David Yergin


**Table of Contents:**

STANDARDS
4 About this Issue. 
FEATURES
5 Selling New Haven. by Melissa Moskof
8 Don't Stand So Close to Me. by Jay Porter
14 Condoms for Kids. by Suzanne Kim
19 Shall We Dance? by Omonike Akinyemi
23 Prozac: Prescription for Perfection? by Laura Hodes
28 Between the Vines: Confessions of a Netsurfer. by David Gerber


**Title: About this Issue**
**Author:  [No Author Listed]**
**Page number(s): 4**


**Title: Selling New Haven**
**Author: Melissa Moskof**
**Page number(s): 5**

Glossing over an often-grim reality,
New Haven's image-makers hope tourism can rejuvenate the city.


**Title: Don't Stand So Close to Me**
**Author: Jay Porter**
**Page number(s): 8**

Neither social taboos nor Yale
regulations can stop students and faculty from falling in love. just ask Hazel.


**Title: Condoms for Kids**
**Author: Suzanne Kim**
**Page number(s): 14**

High-flying rhetoric and harsh reality
clash in the debate over New Haven's controversial new sex education
curriculum.


**Title: Shall We Dance?**
**Author: Omonike Akinyemi**
**Page number(s): 19**

Dancers at Yale struggle to gain
respect, funding, and even space to practice their art.


**Title: Prozac: Prescription for Perfection?**
**Author: Laura Hodes**
**Page number(s): 23**

Touted as a wonder
drug, Prozac has rescued millions from depression. But could it be used to create
the perfect Yalie?


**Title: Between the Vines: Confessions of a Netsurfer**
**Author: David Gerber**
**Page number(s): 28**




**Title: About This Issue**
**Author: The Editors**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
-AsouT THIS IssuE------"-----------------
((The names have been changed to protect the 
innocent." H ow many times have we heard 
that? Did we ever believe it? That stock dis-
claimer always seems to have a knowing smirk hidden 
inside. "Nobody's innocent," it seems to say. We resent the 
implication. 

so although this issue has its share of pseudonyms, we don't 
think they speak to the guilt or innocence of those involved. 
Names are all about identity. Often, our sources reveal 
things about themselves and their lives that stretch the very 
limits of identity: people are defined by what they say. 
Certain statements have the power to alter the way a person 
views him- or herself, not to mention the way that others 
view that person. For these reasons, we always offer the 
people whose words we use the option of anonymity. A 
standard journalistic practice, but one that has come under 
attack recently. 

"We know something you don't knovy." That's not what 
anonymity means to us, although on some level a lot·of 
people read that into every pseudonym. Actually, sometimes 
we don't know: our story "Don't Stand So Close to Me" 
proves that. Only Jay Porter knows Hazel's real name, and 
even he has no idea who Professor X might be. 

All the students' names in Suzanne Kim's "Condoms for 
Kids" are pseudonymous for another reason. After trying in 
vain to get permission to talk to students at Fair Haven 
Middle School, we were worried about printing the names 
of the kids who talked to her at the New Haven Public 
Library. We didn't want to get them in trouble. 

Laura Hodes's story about Prozac really made us think 
about identity. The drug's creators hoped to remedy depres-
sion, but they may have stumbled onto a powerful agent for 
reshaping personality. Some question Prozac's ability to alter 
a person's identity, but we all know the effect of printing 
someone's name. So in Laura's piece, we decided that all the 
students should remain anonymous. 

We only had one problem with all these pseudonyms: how 
to pick the names. After settling on Luke, Emily, Kate, Jack, 
Jill, Marcus, and a few more, we were thrilled that H azel 
had the presence. of ~ind to choose her own. 
- The Editors 


**Title: Selling New Haven**
**Author: Melissa Mosko**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

Selling New Haven 
Melissa Mosko[ 
T
im Shriver is full of plans these days. He's cleared 
everything off his desk to direct preparations for the 
1995 Special Olympics World Games. From his 
office on the sixteenth floor of the New H aven Savings 
Bank Building, he looks out over the Green and envisions a 
city mobilized to host more than 500,000 spectators. 
Winning the bid that will 
bring the Games to New H aven 
did not come easily. Boston and 
Miami both wanted the Games, 
but a small group of New 
Haveners outdid their rivals. Their 
enthusiasm and perseverence even 
overcame local skeptics. "People 
would come up to me after meet-
ings," Shriver remembers. "They 
would ask, 'Why are you trying to 
do this for New Haven? What 
does New H aven have to offer?"' 
Shriver and his colleagues have 
two years to prove that they have 
an answer. 

In the office directly below 
Shriver's, promoting New Haven 
does not center around a single 
event. At the Greater New Haven 
Chamber of Commerce, it is a 
long-term, multi-dimensional 
task. Representatives of local busi-
ness 
groups, 
lobbyists, 
and 
Chamber employees crowd togeth-
er in o ne office to plan for the 
rejuvenation of New Haven. 
Working 
closely 
with 
the 
Connecticut State Legislature, the 
New Haven's tourist industry. 

Across the nation, cities like New Haven are honing 
their images, selling themselves as meccas for tourists. 
Everyone knows the slogans "I love New York" and 
"Virginia is for lovers." New H aven's promoters do their 
best to heighten chances that the city will bounce back 
from economic depression. They 
recognize that social and econom-
ic problems plague the city, but 
they still see a glimmer of possibil-
ity. 

The promoters' optimism per-
meates the image they sell. They 
package the city as a little bit of 
everything; you want it, we've got 
it. Rather than catering to specific 
interests like Mystic seaside tradi-
tion or Williamsburg's living his-
tory, advocates for the city believe 
that there is nothing that New 
Haven cannot offer. Jim Harvey, 
general manager for the H oliday 
Inn-Yale University said, "New 
H aven is a multi-cultural city that 
has a lot of activities for its size. 
It's kind of like a little New York 
City." 

Chamber attempts to create a _.___..__ ______ 
.L;;;;;;.u=L_p::Dj-l.,---D...-
"Today the theatre district is 
the entertainment center of the 
State of Connecticut," reads a 
brochure produced by the 
Schiavone 
Realty 
Development Corporation. "The 
24-hour activity on the streets of 
the theatre district is testimony 
to the rebirth of this important 
and historical neighborhood in 
favorable business environment 
that will promote growth and development in the city. In 
1992, they launched a two-year, half-million-dollar adver-
tising campaign entitled "Get to Know New Haven." 

But that's not all the city's doing. New H aven created 
the Convention and Visitors' Information Bureau 
(CVIB) this past July to supplement the over-worked 
staff at the Chamber. The CVIB designs brochures, con-
vention packages, tours, and guides to promote growth in 
DECEMBER 3, 1993 
downtown New Haven." 

Publicizing high culture never fails to attract potential 
tourists, and New Haven highlights its theater and muse-
ums with this in mind. Yale's free museums offer tourists a 
chance co see internationally-known collections. The 
Department of Cultural Affairs even goes so far as to pub-
lish a guide for tourists entitled "Public Art in New 
Haven," to explain the various sculptures and statues 
THE NEw JoURNAL 5 

--- Page 6 ---

around the city. The New Haven Jazz 
Festival, premier symphonies, and 
nationally-celebrated theater companies 
are other highlights of city culture, 
according to the promoters. 

Promoters also focus on remnants 
·of tradition found in New Haven. The 
,. New Haven Colony Historical Society 
~ and historic Wooster Square, lure 
~ tourists seeking a glimpse of New 
·t England's past. Yale provides an added 
~ historical element. 

"Just look around in any direction 
-~from our picturesque New England 
~ town green and a remarkable diversity 
1 of culture and commerce will unfold 
-~ before you," reads a brochure produced 
~ by the New Haven Convention and 
d Visitors Bureau. "A bounty of restau- · 
~ rants and entertainments tempt one 
~ and all. Our halls of lvy'd Yale offer cui-
~ ture and history in a thriving commu-
~ nity you'll love to visit again and again. 
~ You've got to know New Haven." 

a 
~ ~ou've got to know New Haven. 

Looking for the promised city, 
..:.; 
you may not see the New Haven 
~ of the promoters' brochures. A walk 
~ across the Green from the New Haven 
~ Savings Bank Building to New Haven 
~ theater district does bring churches and 
i "lvy'd Yale." But along the way, you'll 
~ also encounter homeless people begging 
~ for change. Empty storefronts on 
Chapel Street leave shoppers with few 
options. Theaters remain dark a few 
nights each week, becoming lively only 
on some weekend 
evenings. The num-' 
ber of suburban 
shoppers in the city 
dwindles, leaving sales clerks and wait-
resses idle. John O'Ricco, co-owner of 
Raggs Fashions for Men, sums up this 
problem. "When we moved our store 
from Westville to New Haven, we lost 
almost all of our Woodbridge busi-
ness," he said. "People don't want to 
come into the city to shop." 

town New Haven. Restaurants and 
entertainers from all over the region 
come to the Festival to sell their goods 
and advertise the city. Discussing the 
Street Festival's economic possibility, 
Frances Baker, owner of Sugar 
Magnolia commented, "I definitely 
think it was helpful. People came back 
to us saying they discovered us at the 
Festival." 

While special events do attract 
·tourists to the citf, their success in pro-
moting New Haven itself seems limit-
ed. The events last for fixed periods of 
time. They do not benefit the overall 
economy of the city significantly 
enough to impress potential business 
investors. 

Statistics present viable reason for 
concern about the New Haven behind 
the image-making. In 1991, 34 people 
were murdered in New Haven, just one 
fewer than in Jersey City, a city with 
99,000 more people than New Haven. 
That same year, 9.3 percent of blacks 
and 5.3 percent of whites were unem-
ployed. Despite varied promotion pro-
jects, poverty and violence persist 
underneath the slick brochures. 

Every year, tennis fans flock to 
New Haven to watch the Volvo 
uccessful public relations cam-
International Tennis Tournament. 
paign hinges on shifting the 
These visitors come to eat at the 
ocus from wonying about the 
Festival or to listen to jazz, b.ut not "to 
problems of New Haven to highlight-
get to know New Haven"-
not to 
ing and expanding on existing oppor~u-
experience the offerings of the city. 
nities. "We need to emphasize the 
Their interest centers around the tour-
strengths and what is positive about the 
nament, not the city. Kristin Madura, 
city," Harvey said. "We do not want to 
Sponsor Coordinator for Jewell 
dwell on the problems that exist." New 
Productions, organizer of the Volvo 
Haven, though, will get its money's 
International Tennis Tournament, 
worth only if such image-making leads 
explained: "Most of the fans who come, 
to a dollar-for-dollar real benefit by 
come for tennis. But we try to co-pro-
bringing business, tourists, and jobs 
mote New·Haven to the people who are 
into the city. 

drawn to us because, demographically, 
New Haven officials see tourism as 
they are the kind of people who can 
one route to accelerating economic 
afford to spend money. As for selling 
development. Special events, like the 
New Haven in particular, it's difficult." 

The image-makers minimize their 
Miller Street Festival and the New 
liabilities by turning attention away 
Haven Jazz Festival, demonstrate the 
from the widely acknowledged prob-
positive effect of drawing tourists to 
lems of the city, but almost all agree that 
New Haven by increasing opportunities 
there is a larger issue than image keep-
and business. The Miller Street Festival 
ing the city from achieving its goals. 
alone attracts 300,000 people to down-
Ne--;;H, 



**Title: New Haven's Image Problem**
**Author: Melissa Mostof**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Looking down on the city from the 
sixteenth floor, Shriver thinks a lack of 
self-confidence in the city's potential 
pervades New Haven. "If the city can 
overcome its sense of low expectations, 
I think there are tremendous resources 
to be applied to projects." In its crowd-
ed office on the floor below, the 
Chamber of Commerce discusses how 
ineffective legislation and a faulty work 
ethic detract from the creation of an 
environment conducive to business 
development. 

Community leaders question not 
only the attitudes of citizens or the 
industriousness of city officials; they 
challenge the image-makers' basic strat-
egy. In crumbling neighborhoods, resi-
dents wonder whether New Haven 
needs to build up the citizens in the city 
before considering attracting outsiders. 
Shawn Garris, assistant director of the 
Dixwell Community House, explained, 
"To bring jobs into the area you have to 
deal with your human resource base--
do you have the talent 'pool to attract 
Fortune 500 companies?" 

Garris has a vision of what the city 
could do with increased tourist and 
business revenue. "Money could be 
used to support recreational activities 
for youth and seniors, education, and 
police." Changes like these at the neigh-
borhood level could transform the qual-
ity of city life. 

The "ifs" and "buts" of the public 
relations campaign reveal the fragility of 
image-making as a permanent solution 
to these city problems. If people buy 
into the image of the city, then New 
Haven could be on the path to recov-
ery. But if the public relations campaign 
is doomed to failure, the money spent 
on promotion could be used elsewhere, 
especially in the ciry's disadvantaged 
neighborhoods. 

The Special Olympics campaign 
points to certain flaws in the way the 
city relies on outside events for business 
and 
community 
Focusing on one event to transform a 
city seems to many a narrow plan for 
economic 
Shriver 
acknowledges this. "The Special 
Olympics is a one-time event. It's not a 
long-term economic development strat-
egy. It's not a jobs-creation program in 
the long run. There need to be other 
supporting efforts to market the city 
and to move the city forward." 

Even a one-time event may be dif-
ficult for New Haven to pull off. 
Readying the city in two years for the 
International Games will challenge 
New Haven and Special Olympics offi-
cials in fundamental ways. Airport ren-
ovation, restaurant enlargement, and 
deepening of the harbor to allow for the 
cruise ships on which the competitors 
will stay are visible transformations nec-
essary to provide for the participants 
and spectators the Games promise to 
attract. Beyond these physical changes, 
the demands of the Special Olympics 
project require cooperation in the com-
munity. An infrastructure of supporters 
and actors will be essential to the event's 
success. If the Game organizers' cooper-
ation with city officials can mobilize 
New Haven's own citizens to involve 
themselves in the effort, this may do far 
more to improve the city than any 
glitzy brochures or gimmicky slogans. 

The stakes for the Games are high. 
The Special Olympics will put New 
Haven on the tourist maps. City offi-
cials hope that once the mechanisms for 
the Special Olympics are in place, the 
ciry will be ready for further develop-
ment in the areas of business and the 
tourist industry. 

When people from around the 
world arrive in New Haven in 1995, 
the city will see whether promotion 
and image-making are enough. The 
ciry's image-makers won New Haven 
the bid to host the Games. But it is up 
to New Haven to capitalize on the 
vitality and opportunity generated by 
this one spectacular event. 

Melissa Mostof, a junior in Timothy 
Dwight Co~, is on the staff of TNJ. 

**Title: Don't Stand So Close to Me**
**Author: Jay Porter**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

"When I first met him, every-
thing was totally legit, nor-
mal, whatever. He impressed me very 
much, but it wasn't until a while later, 
a long time later, that I actually decided 
to consider it. I decided to pursue him 
my freshman year-
when I first got to 
Yale. Well, 'pursue' is kind of a loaded 
term, but ...."

This is how Hazel, now an upperclassman, describes 
the beginnings of her first Yale romance. Her story sounds 
like a thousand others; like the others it features flirtation, a 
few pivotal glasses of wine, and a kiss that leads into some-
thing else. But for Hazel, "something else" meant a year and 
a half of subterfuge, a double life that separated her from 
friends, parents, and peers. Looking back, Hazel doesn't 
regret the experience. But she does admit that falling in love 
with a Yale professor, a man twice her age, changed her life. 
Her story offers a passionate perspective on the growing 
debate about the regulation of sexual relationships between 
students and faculty that has erupted on campuses across 
the nation. Her words also provide a window into an aspect 
of the Yale experience that many whisper about, but few 
have the courage to discuss openly. 

Hazel agreed to an interview somewhat skittishly. She 
tells me her story only under condition of complete 
anonymity-not so much for herself, she says, but to pro-
tect the man she will only refer to as "Professor X." She 
urges me to be careful, reminds me to watch for details that 
might give anything away. "He knows right now that I'm 
talking to you and he's very worried about it, and I 
promised him that I would be reasonable. But yeah, we're 
on good terms now." We sit in Hazel's airy room on a bright 
fall day; a gentle breeze blows in through an open window. 
She is at ease, but chooses her words carefully. 

"We went out to dinner to talk about normal student-
professor things. There was no idea in our minds-or at 
least in his mind-that there was anything more than 
that .... When I made my intentions known [the second 
time we went to dinner], I think he was a little surprised .... 
At that point I realized that he was interested, but I don't 
think we took it very seriously .... Sort of flirting with a stu-
dent, but it wasn't going to lead to anything, you know?" 

Hazel interrupts the narrative of those first days to 
underscore what is, to her, the crucial fact in their story. 
"Let me just say first-let me be very clear about this-
he was not teaching me, he was not giving me a grade, in 
my mind there was absolutely no ethical problem whatsoev-
er .... It's not like he was a person who was giving me a grade 
or being my advisor or anything like that. It wasn't a ques-
tion of that. 

"Afterwards, I went to his place for a night-
cap. I went to his place, and before we 
went inside he said, 'Hazel, do 
you realize what you're 
getting into?' 
And 
I 
said 
'Professor 
X, I'm just 
going in for 
a nightcap.' 
And that was 
sort 
of 
the 
divide. We went 
in for a nightcap, 
and it was very 
clear what was in 
my mind, and I 
kissed him. We kissed, 
then 
went 
home." Hazel pauses, 
takes a sip of her Diet 
Coke, and continues. "I 
was kind of in shock, like 'I can't believe I did this.' 

"I talked to him a couple of days later, and he was very 
concerned, very upset-you know, we had had some wine, 
obviously-and he said to me, 'We can't, this is bad for you, 
this is bad in terms of Yale, and I think this should be 
nipped in the bud. I like you a lot, but it's not fair to you.'"




**Title: A Student-Professor Relationship**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"friend, a good girl friend, I would have 
to tell her about my life, and I ~ldn't 
tell anyone about my life, so I didn't 
make any friends outside of the few 
tight ones I had." 

I nod sympathetically, bur I begin 
to feel a little sordid. I haven't thought 
much about what Hazel's life must 
have been like, so I haven't considered 
how telling me about it might make 
her feel. The thought occurs to me 
that if I had a microphone and an 
'1 would stand in line 
with people at his office 
hours and they were 
going in to .ask him 
about a paper, and I 
was going in to ask him 
where we were going to 
dinner that night. ,, 

audience, I could be Geraldo Rivera, 
always pressing a litde harder to get 
the juicy details. But Hazel doesn't 
seem to mind talking, so I ask what it 
was like to go home for Christmas. It 
turns out that shame and inexplicable 
phone bills were her biggest problems, 
and that she hated lying to her parents. 
"The entire reason I was ashamed was 
because I had to lie and be secret. I 
had absolutely no shame that I was 
seeing this older man." 

My Geraldo complex tempered, I 
want to know more of those details. 
Did yo'u fight much? I ask. Hazel 
smirks, exhales a gray cloud, and nods 
rapidly, emphatically. "Yeah, we 
fought. 
"We had very dramatic fights-! 
would try to leave him, and it was 
always high drama. One of the things 
we always said was, I would always say, 
'Oh, you're my father figure' and he 
would say, 'You're my mid-life crisis.' 
And we would just laugh because it 
was true. We knew it was true. 
"We had a fight once where-
a 
big fight-and I was basically going to 
call it off. It was about three or four 
months into the relationship and I 
went to his office and there were stu-
dents waiting in line for office hours 
and I went in and shut the door and I 
whispered, 'You'v~ blown it.' And we 
tried to have this huge fight , and 
meanwhile the whole department was 
all around and there were students 
outside and nobody knew what was 
going on. It was potentially a bad situ-
ation." Like she said, I think, high 
drama. 

By spring of her freshman year, 
she says, they felt "completely com-
plicit in each others lives. I can't make 
friends because I can't tell people and 
he's got his own single professor life, 
papers to grade, things like that .... I 
was sleeping at his house almost every 
night. We had a very domestic thing-
you know, have dinner, watch TV, do 
some work, go to bed. It wasn't as 
exciting as everyone would make it out 
to be. At all." 

If it wasn't exciting, it was making 
Hazel deeply unhappy. "I was so 
attached to him. It was a bit of a co-
dependent relationship in the sense 
that I was so miserable feeling I had to 
lie and not feeling like I could make 
any friends and I wasn't leading the life 
I should be .... I ran to the comfort of 
his arms, and in retrospect I can say I 
was confused and looking for security 
and really crazy about this guy and I 
sort of ran to him and got so hooked 
up in this side world .... Instead of 
dealing with all the problems you have 
as a freshman, I just kind of shoved it 
all aside. I knew that I was doing that 
and it made me very, very sad .... But I 
would not say that I regret my experi-
ence at all. I learned so much from it." 

As unhappy as she was, Hazel says 
she never blamed Professor X. "I still 
haven't changed my mind. I have to be 


responsible for my own actions." This 
responsibility included knowing that 
she would have co make a break soon. 
The process was complicated, she 
explains, because, "We were sort of 
each ocher's solace and misery at the 
same time. 
"It ended fall of my sophomore 
year. I went our with him for over a 
year. I went away for the summer, far 
away. I kept in couch .... I kept talking 
to him, and I was just miserable. I had 
decided char he was the end-all, be-all 
of my life and I realize now that I was 
sort of unhealthily obsessed about him 
too much .... He became a figure for all 
these conflicting feelings in me. I came 
back to school and .. .I had new room-
mates, and one was very social, and I 
started going out with her more and 
tried to separate myself a little. I real-
ized how bad the situation was. I 
couldn't lead this double life. I couldn't 
have him pick me up blocks away 
from the center of campus. I couldn't 
'live the lie' anymore. It wasn't good 
'1 do not believe in 
trying to legislate 
sexuality.... I think 
that's wrong. I especially 
don't think it's the 
university's job. " 

for me. It wasn't just 18-year-old and 
40-year-old stuff, a lot of it was just 
having an unhealthy relationship." 

W:
en it was all over, Hazel 
ays, "H e understood. He 
knew all along. He's not 
stupid. He's an older and wiser guy. 
"In terms of having these student-
professor relationships, I didn't think it 
was a problem because he wasn't teach-
ing me. And I think that people have co 
be trustworthy on their own accord 
not to involve sex and grades-that's 
just .... " Hazel trails off, but her 
meaning is clear. "And sex was not the 
focus of our relationship. I do not 
~elieve in trying to legislate sexuality, 
whether it be homosexuality, whether 
it be this sort of relationship, whatev-
er-! think that's wrong. I especially 
don't think it's the university's job to 
do that. Granted, that is placing a lot 
of faith in the student body and pro-
fessors, that people aren't going to 
abuse that. I think it's wrong when a 
professor, or TA, or someone who's 
grading somebody goes out. I think 
that's wrong, but I'm still not sure if 
it's good to try to regulate chat." 

Hazel has definite opinions about 
the taboos that kept her relationship 
in the closet. Without them, "We 
wouldn't have gone out as long as we 
did .... Because it was so 'illicit' I had 
to separate myself from my normal 
life, and it was ultimately more hurt-
ful to me. It might have been the 
fling I had originally envisioned it as, 
if it could have been out in the open. 
And that's the exact problem with the 
taboo on these kinds of relationships, 
because you can create a secrecy and a 
shame that's just going to draw peo-
ple together .... Whoever makes these 
rules should know. If you love some-
body, you love somebody, and to feel 
ashamed of that and feel like that's 
your only prize in life is only going to 
make you fall into it more." 

Hazel and I return to her role in 
initiating the relationship. I think 
about words like pursuit and seduc-
tion, but they don't seem co fit. 
Perhaps sensing chat my mind is wan-
dering, Hazel grows emphatic. "I 
made this happen. He had to be con-
vinced. He was not a lecherous pro-
fessor who was chasing my skirt at all. 
I convinced him chat we were attract-
ed to each other and this would be an 
interesting thing. Later I said 'I went 
into it with my eyes wide open.' I 
take full responsibility." She pauses. 

"But, because of his age and expe-
rience, and to some degree his 
posmon, 
his 
eyes 
were 
inevitably wider open chan 
mine. Make of that what you 
will. Does that mean that I 
blame him? Not exactly. 
But I think, in retrospect, 
he might have been more 
insurmountable in push-
ing me away from him. I 
don't know, chat's hypo-
thetical." The way Hazel 
· explains it, leaning forward 
in her chair, it seems fair to 
me. 

Before I leave, Hazel 
offers one more lucid 
observation. "People are 
going to have.sex if they 
want co," she says, "and 
let's just hope chat 
they have th~ presence 
of mind to do it in the 
correct' context." 

H
azel's story pre-
sents one side of a 
complex debate; her 
experience seems to argue 
against the kind of regulation 
that 
schools 
such 
as 
Harvard, William and 
Mary, Amherst, Oberlin, 
Indiana University, and 
Stanford have recently 
enacted, according to 
an 
article 
in 
the 
September issue of Harper's. 
The language of these 
policies seems 
reflect the idea 
students 
need the university 
to protect them from 
the advances of profes-
sors. Several go so far as 
to state chat "voluntary 
consent by the student ... is 
suspect," in the words of the 
policy ac Tufts. 

Most of these regulations rec-
ognize the distinction between rela-
tionships like Hazel's and those situ-
ations where a professor becomes 
involved with a student in one of 
his or her classes; the latter 
offense can bring "disciplinary 
action" (Tufts) or in some 
cases "dismissal" (Amherst). 

Amherst, 
Oberlin, 
and 
Stanford warn professors 
against'amorous relation-
ships with any students, 
even those over whom 
they have no profession-
al responsibility. 

Yale's policy man-
ages to conflate a number 
of these issues in a corollary 
to the university's sexual 
haras~ment code: 
"Because of the spe-
cial trust and the inequality 
of status inherent in the 
teacher-student relationship, 
sexual relations between a 
reacher and his or her student, 
even when apparently founded 
on mutual consent, are poten-
tially coercive, and may be so 
regarded if a complaint of sexu-
al harassment arises. Therefore, 
those. who teach are advised to 
recognize the potential prob-
lems implicit in such relation-
ships and to avoid them. In a 
case where a complaint of sex-
ual harassment arises out of 
such a relationship, the facul-
ty member will bear the bur-
den of overcoming a presump-
tion that the activity was not 
consensual on the part of the 
student." 

In addition to running the 
risk of trivializing claims of 
outright sexual harassment, 
the policy exposes faculty 
members to serious risk by pre-
suming their guilt in such situa-
tions. Perhaps more importantly, 
it demeans the entire notion of 
consent by asserting that if the par-


**Title:  Yale's Policy on Faculty-Student Relationships**
**Author: Jay Porter**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Participants are of different status, mutual consent could actually mean coercion. This reasoning, if applied to other debates about sex on campus, could completely change the rules of the game. Such an extension is unlikely, but logically sound. 

Yale's policy resembles the other universities' in one clear way, however, in stating the belief that students need to be protected from professors, even as it cites the "special trust" between them. By making wolves out of Yale professors, the policy seems to make sheep out of Yale students. In no other arena does the university so fully absolve students of responsibility for their own actions. And in no other area does university policy so clearly countermand the goals of liberal education: to teach students how to make their own decisions and to live by their own choices. 

Hazel knows a few things about making decisions and living by them; it's a lesson she has learned inside and outside the classroom. Perhaps her experience earns her the last word. "I didn't need protecting," she states firmly. "I was 18 and that's pretty young, but I should be allowed to make my own mistakes or forge my own bonds, and I resent that people are assuming that I can't handle things. It's part of life. You learn, love, and move on." 

Jay Porter, a junior in Davenport College, is managing editor of TNJ. 
Hazel is a pseudonym. 


**Title: Condoms for Kids**
**Author: Suzanne Kim**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

The advent of AIDS in the early 80s changed forever the terms of the long-running sex education debate. The threat of America's children dying of AIDS fueled the dispute with an urgency that has culminated in a movement that seeks to begin to educate children beginning in elementary school. 

To protect the city's children from the epidemic, the New Haven Public School District has launched full force into AIDS awareness education. Patricia McCann-Vissepo, chair of the Board of Education, refers to a statistic from Yale-New Haven's Pediatric/Adolescent Clinic stating that 1 out of 70 of the clinic's patients were HIV positive. Effective December 1, the new plan to make condoms available to middle schoolers and high schoolers represents the joint effort of school board and health care providers to prevent further cases of HIV among New Haven's kids. 

Apart from the political clamor stand the children in their very real world. They hang out at school, the library, the mall, and talk about the raw facts of their lives. Adult rhetoric is not the issue. Reality is. The kids follow their own reasoning concerning the debate that revolves around the "C-word." 

A student can walk into a school clinic and get a condom-provided that the student has obtained parental permission to use the clinic's services-in four schools: Jackie Robinson Middle School, Roberto Clemente Middle School, Fair Haven Middle School, and Wilbur Cross High School. Hillhouse High School is preparing to implement the plan in January. Some of those involved in the new program focus on saving New Haven's youth from AIDS at any cost. "We have it in our power as adults, whether we're church leaders, civic leaders, or mothers and fathers," says Dr. Alvin Novick, professor of biology at Yale. "We have it in our power to save most of these kids." 

The Ad Hoc HIV/AIDS Adolescent Task Force, made up of representatives of New Haven's main health-care facilities, pushed aggressively for condom availability this past summer. The proposal came from a concern to address the problems of AIDS in a community where early sexual activity is the norm. The Social and Health Assessment Survey was compiled jointly by the New Haven's Social Development Department and the Yale Child Study Center. It revealed that 28.1 percent of New Haven sixth graders, 49.9 percent of eighth graders, and 66 percent of tenth graders are sexually active. In light of the rapid spread of AIDS, reports of early sexual activity have alarmed the adult community. These numbers translate into the possibility of premature deaths for children. 

But these statistics do not necessarily bring AIDS to the minds of students. "The topic of AIDS is not an issue with teenagers. Who you are with and with how many people is the topic. AIDS is the topic with adults," says Jill, a senior at Hillhouse. Sexual activity is a matter of course. AIDS is not a matter of discourse. 

Beyond the numbers are the teenagers' everyday observations. "At least 90 percent of the kids at school are having sex, even youngsters, even 11-year-olds, because a lot of kids now look older," says Jill, with a deliberate cadence and a direct gaze. She is careful to clarify that this is not atypical. "It's not just at Hillhouse. It's at all the schools." Marcus, a freshman at Hillhouse, refers to boys touching girls in a sexual manner, "You see boys 'feeling on' girls, and the girls laugh." But Marcus doesn't. He shakes his head. 

Janet Spinner of the Ad Hoc HIV/AIDS Adolescent Task Force is a midwife specializing in prenatal care. She comments on the sexual patterns of teenage patients. "It's fascinating because we don't have a kid who one night sleeps with Jeff, the next night with Susie, and the next night with Elizabeth, and so on. Instead, you have serially monogamous relationships. Do you know what that means?" she asks with measured impatience. 

"The kid will have a relationship for two months-they're madly in love with them-and they happen to have intercourse," she explains at a school-teacher pace. "They usually don't expect that they will be sexually active. They have intercourse and they tend not to protect themselves, and they have a fight. Sometimes it's after an act of intercourse. So they break off." The pattern repeats itself. 

The kids themselves relate with precision the rules of adolescent sexual behavior. Jill speaks of two trends that she has observed. "If the couple is together they have sex within a month," she says straightforwardly. Or, in other cases, the "serial monogamy" pattern Spinner stresses doesn't necessarily hold. "Sometimes, they might mess with one person tonight and three days later, someone else, like adults would say, a 'one-night stand'," says Jill. 

AIDS education supporters aim for more awareness about the dangers of HIV. The Task Force has been active for the past few years, since an increased number of AIDS cases came to Spinner's attention. "About four years ago, I started noticing that I was diagnosing a significantly high frequency of kids coming out HIV positive," she says. This led to the Task Force working with the New Haven Public School District to discuss the epidemic in New Haven. "We started to help boost the consciousness about the problem," she says. Aggressive reminders to "use a condom" saturate the media in an effort to pierce the public's "consciousness." But did the rhetoricians anticipate what kind of response they'd get from kids? 

Holly, a senior at Hillhouse, murmurs as she talks about the kids in her school. She says kids carry condoms because it means they're having sex. Having a condom doesn't mean using a condom. "A lot of boys have condoms to show off, but when it comes down to it, they don't use them," she says. 

"Kids at school walk around with big bags of condoms to sell them. They're not ashamed. They want to show off," says Jill. 

But it's not all about showing off. Anthony, a seventh grader at Jackie Robinson Middle School, focuses on the practical aspect of condom availability. "It can prevent AIDS from going around. It'll help a lot of people who can't afford it and like to have sex," he says. 

Marcus believes that sex will happen no matter what; he distinguishes himself from his peers by addressing the issue of AIDS. "Kids are probably going to have sex after school, they need condoms. All of these kids nowadays are having sex. There's a lot of AIDS," he says. 

Adults say the debate is about AIDS and curbing teenage sexual behavior. Some also say it's about morality. "The Judeo-Christian tradition would be opposed to the whole idea from the moral point of view," says Reverend Howard Nash of St. Bernadette's Church. "I am opposed to making condoms available in schools to children of any age. It's not just a question of ten-year-olds in fifth grade," he says adamantly. Nash constructs his argument on the notion of a hard-and-fast principle. "The bottom line is that we have the Ten Commandments," he says. "According to the Sixth Commandment, it's wrong for kids to have sex." 

"Making condoms available to kids in school sends a message that I don't want to send," maintains Nash. The message is this: 'It's all right to have sex."' His voice rises. "No matter what you say, no matter how you disguise it, no matter what you tell the children, once you give them a condom, you're signifying at least implicit approval of what they're doing." 

But Jill knows that kids have crossed Nash's bottom line and there's no turning back. "It's not telling the kids to go have sex because they're doing it anyway," she says. 

Holly acknowledges that younger and younger kids are having sex. But that doesn't mean she approves of ten-year-olds having sex. She feels that a ten-year-old boy may get the idea that having sex is an option, since he has a condom. "I think giving condoms to ten-year-old boys will make them think they have a right to have sex," she says. 

Novick's discourse doesn't touch upon these issues. The professor who teaches AIDS and Society instead addresses the reality that kids are having sex.



**Title: The Great Condom Debate**
**Author: Suzanne Kim**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
and that AIDS does exist. He argues 
vehemently that people like Nash are 
"murd erers." When asked why, he 
bursts out "Wh y?" with incredulous 
exasperation. "Because if they oppose 
. sex education, these kids will die of 
AIDS. If we do educate them, some of 
them will survive. They are dooming 
these kids to die of ignorance. It's that 
simple." 

Abstinence is Nash's answer to the 
problem of "saving the kids." Giving a 
kid a condom won't solve anything, . 
says Nash. "I'm not gonna look at a lit-
tle kid, who's ten years old or 18 years 
old and say, 'I'm going to give up on 
you. You're an animal. Go follow your 
animal instincts,"' he says. ''I'm going 
to challenge this person not to have · 
sex. It's wrong. It's wrong for you." 

Novick discredits any expectation 
that teenagers will stop having sex. 
"The likelihood of being able to devel-
op an education program that elimi-
nates sexual activity 
in teenagers 
is so remote 
that 
I 
t h ink 
t h a 
t 
only a 
c r azy 
per-
so n 
w 0 u l d 
think it possi-
ble," he argues. "The 
religious spokespersons don't 
even stop priests from having sex, so 
help me." 

As a mother of three, the Task 
Force's Spinner has formulated her 
notion of a "good lesson." Spinner's 
morality lesson doesn't include the Ten 
Commandments. "The problem is, 
you don't teach morals in five min-
utes," she explains. "You can't say that 
just because there's HIV out there 
you're never going to have intercourse 
again and have anybody listen to 
you .... One of the things that my kids 
learned early on was to protect their 
little behinds-protect themselves, 
protect their lives .... That's part of 
morals." 

Kids provide their own answers. 
They draw examples from home or 
their personal beliefs. Marcus doesn't 
talk about the Ten Commandments or 
his "little behind." "It's morally wrong 
for kids to be having sex because 
they're kids and they're not yet 
mature," he says. 

Sex education can change kids' 
attitudes, says Marcus. He criticizes 
the ways boys ·trea~ girls as school. He 
sees sex education as a means to 
reform the way the sexes interact, as 
well as to increase awareness about 
STD's. "Some of the boys in my 
school they have very perverted 
minds," he says. "Sex education will 
help a little." 

Luke, a freshman at Hillho
mother and father are both on drugs 
and they go out and have sex with 
other people, and the kids see it, they'll 
do it too," Jill says. "It's the environ-
ment of the household." Strictness 
says his opinions about sex orig-
inated in his home. He ......... 
:"-.!:*',.,,..,~-'=""'',. 
says his mom has told 
him "indirectly" that he. 
shouldn't have sex. "My 
parents won't allow that," he 
says. Luke outlines his view 
of the proper time to begin 
having sex: "Now, kids should 
get educated, wait till they're a 
little older, and then decide to set-
tle down." 

Marcus's parents have openly 
urged him not to become sexually 
active too soon. They have given him 
a sense of responsibility for his future. 
"I talk to my parents about sex. My 
mom says, 'Go to college first and 
make something of your life and make 
sure she doesn't have AIDS and then, 
of course ... " he says. 

Jill points ro the effect irresponsi-
ble parents may have on their children. 
"It's also the way the family acts. If the 
isn't necessarily a negative influence. "I 
like that my parents are strict with me. 
I don't think that it's true that if your 
parents keep you in the house, you'll 
go out and be wild," she says. "I think 
you can learn from the household." 

U
ke, Holly, Marcus, Jill, and 
Anthony have little trouble dis-
ussing sex. 
But Spinner 
attributes much of the controversy 
over condom availability to people's 
discomfort with the topic. She speaks 
boldly about the sexuality that she says 
the rest of timid America feels so awk-
ward discussing. "We use sexuality 


across the board to sell just about 
everything in America, yet we can't 
talk about it in a forthright, concrete 
fashion," she says. The Task Force pro-
duced a ten-step plan to introduce 
topics of sexuality. "It's been fascinat-
ing to me that I have not gotten the 
attention of groups like the media, 
until we said the big 'C- word'-the 
'condom' word," she says indignantly. 

The "two-sided" attitude toward 
sex, which Spinner terms it, places 
teens in a precarious position. "The 
dilemma is that what we have is a sex-
uality in our culture that causes 
stress-like guilt," she says. "It's like 
'I'm not supposed to be screwing, but 
I am.'" 

Not everyone has a difficult time 
with the idea of sex. "It's nothing to be 
ashamed o£ It's just life," says Marcus. 

T
he AIDS education debate has 
changed its 
language to 
address the fact that condoms 
are not 100 percent effective. "Safe 
sex" has now changed to "safer sex." 

Nash insists abstinence is the only 
solution. "If you want to get honest, 
the surveys, the stats of condom use 
for preventing AIDS are not really 
high, which I don't care about because 
I'm against them anyway," Nash is 
quick to clarify. "But if you give this 
to a kid and say, 'O.K., you're safe 
now,' it's wrong. It's like giving him a 
life preserver with a hole in it. He's 
gonna drown .... The only safe sex is 
no sex." 

The kids discuss the topic in the 
library. Holly and Jill converse on the 
pro's and con's of condoms as they sit 
at a long table with college guide 
books laid out in front of them. 

"You're better safe than sorry," 
says Holly solemnly. Jill sets forth the 
ever-open option of abstinence. "But 
it's better not to do it than anything 
else," she says. Holly concedes that 
nothing is completely safe. "Condoms 
aren't 100 percent," she says. "Better 
not 100 percent, than nothing at all," 
Jill responds. Holly nods. The core of 
the argument lays bare. 

B
y all accounts, the debate cen-
ters on giving condoms to kids. 
But Reverend Nash's opposition 
doesn't end there. He seems most 
angry when he discusses the politics of 
the situation-what he views as the 
undemocratic way the school board 
voted on the plan on July 26, 1993. 

"This is not government for the peo-
ple, by the people, of the people," says 
the reverend belligerently. "It's a per-
fect example of bad government, a few 
people ramming something down the 
throat of the majority. It's wrong." 

Nash suspects the school board of 
voting during the summer in order to 
avoid public debate. "I refer _to July 
26, 1993, as a 'day of infamy,'" he 
says. "That's when the school board 

**Title: Shall We Dance?**
**Author: Omonike Akinyemi**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"('PJ1ve, six, five-six-seven-eight," the teacher shouts. 
Tombe, pas de bourree, glissade, jete ... The room-
ul of students begins to move quickly to the 
music, knowing that each of their movements will be 
watched and remembered. Tombe, pas de bourree, glissade, 
jete ... When the music stops, sweat drips down their brows. 
They know they strive for something for which there are no 
words. It was as if someone shouted "Dance!" and they heard 
the call. It was as if the students heard someone say "Don't 
stop till you know you gonna drop." Tom be, pas de bour-
ree, glissade, jete ... The energy of the students fills the perfor-
mance studio like the feverish steps of !indy-hoppers getting 
down. Their movements contract and release like the beats 
of the old drum that set their feet rolling. 

For many people the language of dance unlocks a world 
of artistic exploration. On any given day hundreds of people 
dance at Yale-in classes at Payne Whitney Gym, in compa-
ny rehearsals, at parties, and in their own rooms. Yet Yale 
lacks a context in which to cultivate this art form for stu-
dents who are most interested. Dancers who come to Yale 
often face the disappointment of dealing with a university 
that does not seem to recognize their talents. Many dance 
groups perform on dangerous cement floors in residential 
college dining halls. Those who dance off-campus face prob-
lems financing productions ineligible for the funds allocated 
to on-campus theater and music productions. Students who 
dance at Yale often become so concerned with trying to over-
come these setbacks that their goal of dancing gets lost with-
in a struggle for intellectual, academic, and physical space for 
dance at Yale. 

Dance at Yale began with the arrival of women to Yale 
College in 1969. To accommodate the new "coeds" the uni-
versity introduced classes in synchronized swimming, mod-
ern dance, and ballet at Payne Whitney Gym. Dance, how-
ever, took hold more outside the curriculum than within it. 
At present, there are at least six dance companies, including 
ALAAFIA (which means "peace" in Yoruba), which concen-
trates on African and modern dance; the Ballroom Dance 
Team; Danceworks, a 40-member dance group; 
Dance Thingy, which focuses on experimental movement 
and improvisation; Rhythmic Blue, a contemporary street 
dance group; and Yaledancers, the first dance organization 
founded at Yale. The non-credit recreational dance program 
at Payne Whitney includes beginning to advanced levels of 
ballet and modern dance, as well as classes in ballroom 
dance, jazz, and creative African dance. Other dance courses 
DECEMBER 3· 1993 
have been offered through the residential college seminar 
program. Ann Cowlin, a dance instructor at Payne Whitney, 
teaches a college seminar which focuses on kinesiology and 
anatomy entitled Movement and Mind. This year, represen-
tatives of most of Yale's dance organizations have formed the 
Dance Coalition to act as a collective voice for dance at Yale. 

The Dance Coalition seeks to establish an intellectual 
space for dance at Yale. Barbara Feldman, a dance instructor 
at Payne Whitney and the Yale School of Drama for nearly 
20 years, said, "I think for some reason people used to look 
at dance solely as entertainment. Somehow people at Yale 
didn't quite understand dance had its own theory, li t~rature, 
and technique." A fellow of Silliman College, Feldman has 
offered a college seminar on dance composition for nine 
years. Feldman remembers when the university's outlook 
toward dance was one of concern. During the late 70s and 
early 80s a faculty committee was looked into incorporating 
dance courses into an academic department at the drama 
school. "When I was Dean of Yale College there was a great 
deal of exploration of how to bring dance to a more promi-
nent position," said Howard Lamar, former president of 
Yale. 

A lack of financial resources shifted the university's atti-
tude to one of ambivalence. "My feeling is that there has 
been interest and sympathy on the part of the faculty to sup-
port a stronger dance program, but little money to do so," 
said Lamar. Betty Trachtenberg, Dean of Student Affairs 
and the parent of a professional dancer and dance edu-
cator, has expressed interest in working with the 
Dance Coalition on issues concerning student 
d ancers, but she does not foresee increased 
fmancial involvement in dance. The universi-
ty has never advertised itself as a school for 
dance, said Trachtenberg. "Students 
interested in dance must decide 
whether to come here knowing 
this," she said. Trachtenberg has 
advised dance organizations in 
need of moral and financial 
support to turn to their 
alumni. 

"I think Yale 
can't be all things 
to all people," 
Feldman said. 


"On the other hand, I think that dance 
is one of the oldest art forms, if not the 
oldest. Dance connects the world of 
science and humanities. It is just a vital 
part of the liberal arts background. 

"Some of the most enthusiastic 
members of my seminar have been sci-
einists, actors, musi-
cians, writers-peo-
ple who have a strong 
interest in dance but 
are not necessarily 
accomplished techni-
cians," said Feldman. 

Students 
can 
experience 
dance 
within dance courses, 
but for chose who 
want to expand on 
previous dance expe-
rience, the opportu-
nities are limited. 

Some students do 
what a freshperson 
did last semester: she 
decided Yale's lack of 
dance offerings was 
the Arcs, but dance has found strength 
through many growing college dance 
programs. Harvard established a rep-
utable summer and year-round dance 
program at Radcliffe College which 
attracts noted ballet, modern, jazz, and 
African dance professionals. Princeton 
too much of an edu- Yaledancers turn loose ai the Educational Center for the Artss 
cational sacrifice and 
transferred to a college with an estab-
lished dance department. "Someone as 
talented as she shouldn't have to be dis-
couraged," said Cowlin, "She needed a 
place where she could be validated." A 
member of Al.AAFIA agreed. "There is 
a lot of ignorance here about what 
dance is and what it takes," she said. 
"The real challenge for dancers at Yale 
is getting past the issue of why we are 
here as dancers." Many dancers who 
decide to come to Yale realize their 
decision often becomes a decision to 
sacrifice dance for an education. "Why 
can't I get a top education at an Ivy 
League institution and still be allowed 
to. dance seriously?" asked the 
ALAAFIA dancer. 

The validity that dance lacks at 
Yale may come with the creation of an 
academic space within the course of 
study. On a national level, the funding 
of dance has been cut by organizations 
such as the National Endowment for 
20 THE NEW jOURNAL 
has a number of dance courses for 
credit under the umbrella of a humani-
ties program. Vassar awards half credit 
for dance technique classes. Wesleyan 
has a dance major. "The perception of 
dance has changed nationally from the 
media coverage," said Feldman. "If you 
look at the theater section of any news-
paper, dance is an active part of any 
community setting." 

The number of performing dance 
groups, the number of advanced 
dancers within these groups, and the 
number of students who have pursued 
dance in courses indicate a need for 
academic faculty for dance at Yale. The 
university currently relies on the recre-
ational dance program offered at rhe 
gym to meet the needs of all dancers at 
Yale. The program carers to the majori-
ty of students who come to the dance 
classes. "Suppose there is an intermedi-
ate/advanced 
class," 
Feldman 
explained, "If ten of the people are 
intermediate and two advanced l 
dancers show up, it would be inappro-
'} 
priate co teach co the level of the two 
~ 
and exclude the ocher ten." 

Both ALAAFIA and Yaledancers ~ 
have cried to supplement the offerings 
of the recreational dance program by ] 
bringing in guest .B 
artists and choreog-
raphers. Last year 
ALAAFIA hired a 
..E 
m!mber of outside 
Cl 
artists to teach Iindy-
hop, jazz, flamenco, 
and 
afro-modern 
dance in order to 
bring varied cultural 
dance forms to Yale, 
and raise money for 
irs concerts. 

S o 
m 
e 
dancers, 
however, 
find such an arrange-
ment problematic. 
Hiring teachers on a 
guest basis does not 
provide the continu-
ity of academic facul-
ty 
to 
students. 
"Someone comes in for a semester and 
you never see them again," 
said 
Feldman. "I don't think you learn as a 
student and a. dancer that way." 

Without access to a structured aca-
demic dance program, dancers at Yale 
miss out on the chance to share ideas 
about dance in an open atmosphere, a 
benefit students in recognized per-
forming and fine arts departments 
enjoy. "It's interesting co see the work· 
that other students do," said Kate 
Schuler (SY '96), a potential art major. 
"You get feedback from the professors 
who see your works in progress. It's 
hard to be an artist alone." 

M
any of the dance groups at 
Yale are geared toward per-
forming rather than practice. 
"The students are trying to do it all 
alone," said Feldman. "The perfor-
mance goals are overly ambitious so · 
that value is put on product rather than 
DECEMBER 3> 1993 

The quality of dance here is 
uneven. Some people have had enough 
training to function independently. 
Ochers haven't." 

Dancers at Yale often call on 
Feldman and Cowlin to perform the 
duties of dance faculty, whether to pre-
view a series of pieces before a concert 
or to advise the choreography of a 
dance piece. In the last five years 
Feldman has advised five senior pro-
jects and independent studies on 
dance. "I have literally seen a dozen of 
my students embark on professional 
dance careers," she said. 

Many students recognize the 
importance of a dance department to 
act as a voice for their needs. "A dance 
department would create an organized 
dialogue between students, administra-
tion, and faculty who dance;" pointed 
out Kristin Sturner (TD '94), artistic 
director ofYaledancers. "There should 
be more sharing and an increased num-
ber of lectures on dance. More collabo-
ration needs to be done between musi-
cians and dancers, actors and dancers, 
more informal workshops-so that 
people can watch casually." A depart-
ment would also provide a conduit for 
communication and the distribution of 
funds. "There are many alumni who 
want to give money to dance at Yale 
but technically there is no dance 
department at Yale and therefore no 
dance at Yale," said Sturner. 

THE NEw JouRNAL 21 



**'ILl~S•NG! TO DINE OR TO GO**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 22**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"' ILl~S•NG! 
TO DINE 
OR 
TO GO 
That is the choice. 
45 Howe St. 624-3557 
898 State St. 624-2462 
For great Chinese food in a beautiful 
·setting, come dine with us. 
For fast Chinese food at a 
reasonable price. 
•Special prices for Scorpion bowl 
parties. 
•None higher than $6. 
Free delivery·11 :30om- 1 Opm.


**Yale Symphony Orchestra**

~a{e Symphony Orcliestra 
James t;Rpss, Music 'Director 
presents 
%e ~irst and Last of Mafi{er 
Songs of a Wayfarer 
Joyce Campana, mezzo-soprano. 
Sympfwny 9\{p. 9 
. 
Satunfay, 'Decem6er 4 at 8:00pm in WoolSey :J{a{{


**5 WAYS TO IMPROVE YOUR OUTLOOK ON LIFE**

'IDI > 5 \VAYS 
'ID 
IMPROVE 
YC)lJR 
C)Lf riDC)K 
()N LIFE 
WIN LOTTERY 
MOVE TO TAHITI 
TRANSCENDENTAL 
MEDITATION 
LEAVE YOUR SPOUSE 
PSYCHOANALYSIS 
DINNER AT SHAWN'S 
Dinner~ recommended 
Open 7 da~Major credit cards aaqxcd


**Dance at Yale**
**Author: Omonike Akinyemi**

THANKS 
Omonike Akinyemi • Linda Barr • Ivo Banac • John 
Boswell • The Clinic for Eating Disorders • The Discovery 
Channel • Audrey Grant • Adam Griff • Cheryl M. Harris 
• Shafali J este • Sara Kaplan • Steven Kim • Christoph 
Kraemer • Leslie Park • Pierson College • Phoebe Roberts 
W Hampton Sides • Moria Smoski • St. Anthony Hall 
John Weiss • Nye Wright 

Along with an academic space for 
dance, there is also need for physical 
space. There is no suitable performance 
space available to undergraduate dance 
companies besides the gym's dance stu-
dios. Both Yaledancers and ALAAFIA 
have held their company concerts at 
theaters off campus. These companies 
have also encountered· problems fund-
ing concerts in the past because of the 
expense of renting theater space. 

At present, th~ two dance studios 
at the gym are shared by the dance 
organizations, dance classes, and mem-
bers of club sports. "The studios are 
available only during gym hours," said 
Sturner. "They are not dance-exclusive, 
so they suffer from lack of mainte-
nance." The distance from central 
campus also poses a danger to dancers: 
one dancer was mugged on the way to 
the gym. 

Timothy Dwight College, howev-
er, is now building a dance space with 
funds from the Greenwich Initiative 
Prize. An alumnus recently donated 
funds for the renovation of a dance stu-
dio at the gym. 

·c
ounting the number of people 
involved in the dance classes 
offered at the gym, the under-
graduate dance organizations, and the 
seminars, over 400 people are involved 
in dance· at Yale. The university has yet 
to recognize the significance of these 
numbers. Dance at Yale has grown 
because of student interest and involve-
ment; yet, without the economic sup-
port of the administration, it does not 
thrive as the other arts at Yale do. It's 
hard to be an artist alone. Without a 
more active support network, dance at 
Yale has little hope for growth beyond 
the extra-curricular and recreational 
level. Yet the dedication of many stu-
dents to the art of dance signals that a 
day may come when a Yale student will 
feel that Yale validates her- or him self 
as a dancer. 

Omonik~ Akinynni is a junior in Pin-son 
Co/kg~.


**Prozac: Prescription for Perfection?**
**Author: Laura Hodes**
**Page number(s): 23**

Prozac: Prescription for Perfection? 
Laura Hodes· 

F 
rom psychiatrist offices, to magazines, to the bestseller 
list, to college campuses, people are talking about 
Prozac. At least 5 million Americans and 10 million 
people worldwide have taken the antidepressant drug since 
its introduction in 1988. Last year sales of Prozac earned its 
maker Eli Lilly $2 billion, setting a new record for the sale of 
antidepressants. Media reports suggest that general practi-
tioners and college clinics give 
Prozac out generously to angst-rid-
den patients. Prozac's popularity 
rises from psychiatrists' claims that 
Prozac not only alleviates depres-
sion but increases self-confidence, 
aggressiveness, and energy, without 
major side effects. These traits 
coUld make it desirable to success-
oriented students, who might see 
Prozac as a quick means of achiev-
ing the Ivy League ethos of inex-
haustible energy and an outgoing 
personality. 

The drug's side effects include 
the jitters, insomnia, nausea, and 
decreased ability to experience 
orgasm-but none medically seri-
ous. Grateful to the drug, few 
patients complain of side effects or 
the high cost of two dollars a pill. 
Prozac was the first of a class of 
pharmaceuticals 
(which 
also 
includes the d~:ugs Zoloft and 
Paxil) called selective serotonin 
reuptake inhibitors, or "dean" antidepressants. These drugs 
block the reuptake of serotonin, a chemical receptor in the 
brain, so that it stays in the synapse longer and continues to 
transmit, enhancing a feeling of well-being. The older tri-
cyclic antidepressants are still widely used, and are generally 
as effective as Prozac, but have more side effecrs. But like all 
antidepressants, Prozac simply does nothing for some 
patients. Studies suggest that Prozac may successfully treat 
people with eating disorders, obesity, panic disorder, obses-
sive-compulsive behavior, and perhaps even PMS. 

Prozac's darker side taints this success story. Some 
researchers have expressed concern about Prozac-induced 
violent murders and suicides. But in one of Lilly's clinical tri-
als, researchers randomly assigned 3,065 depressed patients 
to Prozac, a placebo, or one of five other antidepressants. At 
the start of the six-week treatment period, all seven groups 
were equally prone to suicidal thoughts. By the end, the 
Prozac group was the least suicidal of the seven. In a one-
year study, researchers at Rush-Presbyterian St. Luke's 
Medical Center in Chicago monitored 1 00 Prozac users and 
found no increase in risk of suicide or violence. 

Dr. Peter Kramer, a Yale-trained psychiatrist who treats 
students at Brown University and l 
the Rhode Island School of Design, ~ 
raises other controversial issues in ~ 
his best-seller Listening to Prozac. ~ 
Prozac seems to be changing the 1i 
parameters of what is mental illness ~ 
and what is normal: if a person 
~ 
responds to Prozac, does this mean :.2 
his or her prior personality was a 1 
disorder? What is the self if a drug ~ 
can change it? Kramer has seen l:! 
Prozac alter the personalities of his 1 
patients, shifting them to a state of U 
£ 
confidence, energy, quickness, and t-
flexibility. Prozac brings out traits, 
he says, that American society val- :§ 
ues, traits that lead to success in the .S 
competitive world of American ~ 
business-and perhaps in the com-
1..:) 
petitive world of the Ivy League. 
"Prozac seemed to give social confi-
dence to the habitually timid," he 
writes, "to make the sensitive brash, 
to lend the introvert the social skills 
of a salesman." Such a drug sounds 
like the recipe for the perfect Yalie. If Yalies are accepting 
Kramer's logic, how many might already be taking Prozac to 
go from stress to success? 


**Prozac on Campus**
**Page number(s): 23-24**

S 
itting on a couch in the Calhoun common room, Jack 
speaks about the depression that led him last year to 
call University Health Services' (UHS) Mental Hygiene 
to ask for a referral for a psychiatrist. Physically abused as a 
child, he cannot remember ever being happy before taking 
Prozac. When he called for a referral he was taking time off 
from Yale because his symptoms made him unable to func-
tion as a student. "I couldn't do anything," he says. "When I 
was in the dining hall I would eat by my mysel£ The effort 
of speaking to anyone, of saying hello to anyone, was enor-
mous. I drank 40 cups of coffee simply to get the energy to 
get through the day. I was an emotion-
al hemophiliac.'' He means that a 
minor comment could make him feel 
bad for days or weeks. 

He speaks wich detachment, view-
ing his depre~sion as something to be 
targeted and then eradicated so that his 
true self will emerge. Patient and doc-
tor become like Pygmalion-together 
modeling and altering the patient until 
the patient is satisfied. Jack's doctor 
prescribed him 20 mg a day after his 
first visit. Despite an initial buzz three 
days later, Jack felt no sustained 
increase in energy, so five weeks later he 
complained. ''.She recommended we 
move co 40 mg a day. We did, and 
within a ft.'W weeks I felt fine," he says. 
''I woke up one morning and realized 
that for the past few days I had felt 
fine." Like many patients who find 
relief from Prozac, Jack does not see his 
doctor for therapy anymore. 

His case shows how Prozac alters 
the relationship between patient and 
psychiatrist. Patients often go to the 
doctor with the purpose of taking the 
drug and lack interest in psychothera-
PY· According w the Am~rkan journal 
of Psychiatry, 50 perccnr of the people 
who visit psychiatrists now are put on 
medication, and, in what has become 
common practice, psychiatrists will 
consult patients only to see if the 
patient is a candidate for medication. 
Jack called Mental Hygiene with the 
sole intent of obtaining a prescription 
for an antidepressant. In fact, he dis-
liked his first psychiatrist because the 
doctor viewed antidepressants only as 
an adjunct to treatment. "If someone 
comes into a hospital with multiple 
stab wounds you don't ask them to 
recounr the events that led up to their 
stabbing. You treat the injuries," he 
argues. "I knew I was depressed. I sim-
ply wanted to get better. Whatever led 
to this biochemical state of not enough 
serotonin floating around in my brain, 
the end result was that I needed more 
. " 
serotomn. 

Jack disagrees with Kramer's con-
tention that Prozac is a drug that acts 
on personality. "I do nor feel my per-
sonality has been transformed," he 
says. "I feel I've gone from a very sad, 
morose Jack co a relatively heahhy, 
moderately happy Jack." He plans to 
stay on Prozac until a "relatively stress-
free period," probably next summer. 
but not until he feels completdy "bet-
ter." But taking Prozac has raised ques-
tions about himself which make the 
idea of stopping troublesome. "Jf I go 
off Prozac," he wonders, "will the 
things that troubled me trouble me in 
the same way again?" 

Like Jack, Kate, a sophomore, 
talks in an easy, open manner about 
her experience with Prozac. Before 
coming ro college, she had never been 
depressed. "All my relatives and friends 
from high school couldn't believe this 
was happening to me. I was completely 
stable. I was totally outgoing, friendly, 
normal." Normal. 

Her problems surfaced during 
shopping period of her freshman year. 
.. 1 think I'd been too dependent on my 
parents and I couldn't deal with the 
shock of having to make all those deci-
sions," she says. At Yale she cried con-
standy. She did not even have the ener-
gy to clean up her roo"m. "I was com-
pletely unmotivated and depressed and 
finding it hard to do things that would 
otherwise be thought to be normal." 

Kate's faculty adviser suggested she 
ask about going on Prozac because she 
needed "something to get over the 
hump." A Mental Hygiene psychiatrist 
prescribed her 20 mg a day. "It's not 
like all of a sudden it completely 
changes everything for you; it just 
helps you," she says. "It's like a catalyst 
to help you cope with the depression, a 
little push." Prozac did not transform 
her, she says. "You don't feel you're on a 
high, you just feel you are normal-
like you've gotten back to normal." 

Last year she saw a psychiatrist 
once a week at Mental Hygiene and 
now she sees one in Hamden. She was 
feeling better by the summer and went 
off the drug. "I didn't want to take it 
for a long time," she says. "I sort of 
decided I wanted to stop when I 
stopped at the end of the school year." 
When she became anxious again dur-
ing shopping period this year, she rec-
ognized the symptoms and did not 
want to return to the old self she 
remembered. Knowing what Prozac 
could do for her, she started to take it · 
again and continues to do so.



**Title: Prozac on Campus**
**Author: Laura Hodes**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Emily, a sophomore, has been 
clinically depressed since the age of II 
and has been seeing a therapist since 
the age of I6. She went through two 
severe depressions the spring of her 
freshman year. "I was basically unable 
to function in my life," she says. "I was 
sleeping all the time, I had no appetite, 
and I was totally uninterested in any-
thing in my life." She arranged an 
intake interview at Mental Hygiene in 
which a doctor assessed her situation. 
After that, she says, the first counselor 
who saw her "wasn't very helpful 
because she didn't take what I was 
going through very seriously." Emily 
arranged to see a doctor instead. In 
April she went through a severe week-
long depression and was prescribed 
Prozac's sister drug Zoloft, which her 
father takes successfully. 

Unlike Jack and Kate, Emily 
remembers the exact moment when 
she knew the drug had taken effect, 
four weeks after she began medication. 
"I still remember the moment when it 
started to work," she says. "I suddenly 
felt happy and I hadn't felt happy so 
long that for a moment I didn't know 
what I was feeling." She did not know 
what happiness felt like, a statement 
that echoes those of many Yale stu-
dents who complain they never feel 
happy at Yale. Yet the urgency of her 
words makes her seem different. "My 
life has changed in a way I could never 
have thought po~sible," she says. ''I'm 
incredibly grateful for Prozac, and for 
my doctor for prescribing it to me. I 
have never felt better in my life." She 
says the drug saved her life. "If it 
weren't for Prozac I wouldn't be here." 
As it has for Jack, the drug has 
practically replaced psychotherapy for 
Emily. After her first depression, she 
saw her psychiatrist at least once a 
week; now she sees him monthly. She 
does not plan to stop taking the drug 
in "the short term." She says, 
"Eventually I may, but there's a signifi-
cant history of depression in my fa.mi-
ly. It may be a permanent situation. At 
the moment I don't have any plans to 
stop it in the near future." 

In her opinion, instead of altering 
her personality, Prozac helped Emily 
express her true self. "I think it made 
me able to be who I am. Depression 
really muted me. I had a lot of self-hate 
and self-doubt," she says. "I was never 
satisfied with my life. I think those 
things were hampering me·and not 
allowing me to be who I am. Now I 
think I have ordinary self-doubt that 
anyone has, but it's not massive, 
inhibiting self-doubt that I used to 
have." 

Ordinary self-doubt. Perhaps a 
certain amount of despair is legitimate. 
Yo.ung adulthood has traditionally 
been seen as a time of confusion, of 
determining one's identity. Now sopte 
suggest that Prozac has the power to 
eliminate angst and foster pleasing 
emotions. Adolescent confusion may 
be seen as necessary for maturity, or as 
a discomfort easily eliminated through 
Prozac. An article on Prozac in the 
October issue of Lears says of students, 
"The brighter they are, the more they 
have achieved, the more competitive 
the school they're in, the more stressed 
they tend to become." Dr. Ghislaine 
Godenne, professor of psychiatry and 
director of counseling and psychiatric 
services at Johns Hopkins Universiry, 
told L~ar's that more than half of the 
students she has diagnosed with 
depression are prescribed Prozac. 

Dr. Lorraine Siggins, chief psychi-
atrist at UHS for five years and a 30-
year veteran of Mental Hygiene, states 
only that the department sees "rough-
ly" 12 percent of graduate students at 
Yale and ten percent of undergradu-
ates. She is unable to tell what percent-
age of those students are prescribed 
medication. "I can't say," she says, 
shaking her head, "because it really 
depends clinically on the person. It's 
really hard, you know, to make general 
statements." She says that Prozac has 
helped "a certain number of people," 
but she does not know how many. She 
stresses, "You're talking about less than 
one percent of students." One percent 
of the undergraduate population is 
about 50 students. Many more, unmo-
tivated, unhappy, and undiagnosed, 
might wonder if Prozac is the miracle 
drug to improve their lives. 

There is no one set of regulations 
at Yale concerning the treatment of 
students taking Prozac, according to 
Siggins. "It depends on each individu-
al. It depends on the person's condi-
tion." There is no minimum number 
of times patients must meet with their 
doctors. "If it seems helpful and some-
one's been on it for a while, it might 
make sense to see them every three to 
four weeks, or something like that," 
she says. "But more often the person is 
being prescribed the medication in the 
context of having therapy here on a 
weekly basis." 

Yale emphasizes therapy, not medi-
cation, she says. "Depending on what 
their problem is we try to help them 
understand it and to find ways of 
working out their concerns psychologi-
cally." She says doctors ask students 
questions about their symptoms and 
personal history prior to prescribing 
medication. 

Dr. Dennis Charney, chief of psy-
chiatry at the West Haven Veterans 
Medical Center, and associate chair-
man for research in the department of 
psychology, resorts to prescribing 
Prozac only if therapy has not been 
effective. "If you've worked with the 
patient and tried to work through 
issues and can't come up with anything 
and psychotherapy has not been help-
ful, and given that Prozac is a safe med-
ication," he says, "I might use it to 
lift the patient's persistent sad-
ness." He says that this is a 
standard practice but, "you 
wouldn't typically use Prozac 
in a person who said, 'You 
know I'm not sad, I just 
don't feel like I've realized 
my potential in life."' 

Dr. Larry Price, assis-
tant professor of psychiatry 
and 
director of Clinical 
Neuroscience Research Unit at the 
Connecticut Medical Health Center, 
agrees. "We'd rather not give people 
medication if they don't need it," he 
says. "Especially among college stu-
dents under unique stresses having to 
do with being away for the first time, 
being with a new peer group." In this 
case he favors talk therapy instead. 

Lilly spokesperson Kelly Weston 
offers, "For ethical reasons we can only 
promote the use of the medication for 
what it's indicated for-depression. " 
She adds t~at the FDA is determining 
if Prozac can be prescribed for obses-
sive-compulsive disorder or bulimia. 
She expects them to approve treat-
ment, but until then Prozac is only 
intended for treating depression. 

Unlike psychiatrists and Lilly, gen-
eral praccictioners may not be so con-
servative in prescribing psychotropic 
drugs. Patients go to their regular pri-
mary care provider and say they are not 
feeling happy, have heard about Prozac, 
and would like to try it. Since Prozac 
has few serious side effects, the doctor 
risks little in prescribing Prozac to the 
patient, even if he or she does not fit 
the traditional definition of clinically 
depressed. What are the ramifications 
of someone being able to go to an 
M.D. and receive a prescription for 
Prozac, saving the doctor the time of 
talking about the problem with the 
patient, and saving the patient the time 
of talking about it with a therapist? It is 
not a "scheduled" drug, which means 
the FDA does not regard it as poten-
tially harmful or addictive like mor-
phine, 
heroin, 
or 
Valium. 
Scheduled drugs require a 
triplicate prescription, 
one for the pharmicist, 
one for the doctor, 
and one for the State 
Department 
of 
Health. Prozac needs 
one prescription; dis-
pensing is straight-
forward and simple. 

Kramer questions 
Prozac's use for 
"healthy" people. 
He coined the term "cosmetic psy-
chopharmacology" for the world 
Prozac portends, a world in which 
individuals can change their personali-
ties through drugs to meet society's ide-
als, a world in which people ingest 
mood-enhancing drugs just as some 
athletes inject steroids to achieve. 

Prozac's effects on "normal" peo-
ple-people who feel their mood could 
be improved-remains unclear; but it 
is definite that Prozac dramatically 
helps many who fit the standard defini-
tion of depression. Jack hopes to return 
to Yale next year, aware it is not the 
ideal environment for a depressed per-
son. "It's a stressful place with high 
expectations," he says "and not neces-
sarily the most nurturing atmosphere." 

Prozac's potential to enhance 
mood and efficiency lures us all. 
Anyone would be attracted to a drug 
that makes students more apt to face 
the dreary New Haven rains, withstand 
stress, and smile while doing it. Prozac 
has only been around for five.years. If 
Prozac cannot make people better than 
normal, the possibility remains that 
another wonder drug will soon arrive, 
luring students tempted by the 
prospect of psychological perfection. 


**Title: BETWEEN THE VINES**
**Author: David Gerber**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
B ETWEEN THE V INES 
Confessions of a Netsurfer ....... 
=-===========~
·: 
David Gerber 
C
all me slim. That's what Jay, Toymaker, bap, whoa, 
· 
Knot, Chron, and storm called me. It's short for 
(~slim@MINERVA.cis.yale.edu). From the start we 
hit it off. It went like this: 
***slim(-slim@MINERVA.cis .yale . edu) has 
joined channel #bored 
<whoa> Hi , s l im ... al . 
<storm> hey there 
: ) 
>Hey guys, what ' s up? 
<whoa> Hello? Where is everyone else? 
<Whoa> Toy? 
Chron? 
<whoa> I guess it's just you and me, slim 
I had not expected such a warm welcome, at least not 
quite so soon. I hadn't even said anything yet. Still,-they 
greeted me eagerly, and my not-so-creative "Hey guys, 
what's up?" seemed to convince them that I was all right. As 
the Macintosh screen scrolled with chit-chat, I learned more 
about my new acquaintances. They were almost all college 
students, some from California, some from Kansas, one 
from Cornell. Apparently they had met before. To return 
the warmth, I was first to greet the next arrival 
***bap(JWILLIAMS@Athena .cob .miami . edu) has 
>hi Sap 
<whoa> Sip! Bop ! Sap ! 
<toymaker> Sap ! 
<Jay> Whoa so what do you study at santa 
cruz? 
<Jay> or do you? 
<toymaker> man . 
<WhOa> I 'm majoring in Comp-Sci 
<Whoa> I 'm a frosh 
<Jay> I 'm a senior psych major 
>I'm a junior history major 
<Whoa> history, you must be bored . 
Just 
kidding. 
<Whoa> bap? 
>Actually, I 'd like to try linguistics 
<toymaker> ling-what? 
<Jay> Slimmeister, what can you do with a 
lingwistix degree 
<Jay> UN? 
>don't know, maybe journalism 
<Whoa> Sap? 
<Jay> I see . . . 
<Whoa> Hi , Sap? 
<Whoa> Are you there? 
***bap has left channel #bored 
<Whoa> How rude 


So this was the Internet, that computer-based, fiber-
optic world where friendships were made and broken with-
out the distractions of sight, sound, or touch. "You can be 
who you really are," Jonathan Lawrence Leger, 16, wrote in 
Internet World, "let your personality shine through." Since 
this was my first time on the Net, I Md trouble being any-
thing. Keeping track of who said what, and to whom, pro-
vided enough of a challenge. Typing and entering responses 
before the conversation topic changed was almost impossi-
ble. 

My friend Moria, a computer assistant, had helped me 
through a labyrinth of passwords and login ID codes, a pro-
cess that had taken over 20 minutes because more than 100 
other Yale students had already logged on. Moria pointed 
out that many of them were communicating with other 
Yalies, and I wondered why they had chosen the computer 
over a phone call or a personal visit. Once on the Net, 
Moria left me skimming delightfully through the catalog of 
over 600 coiwersation channels that make up IRC (Internet 
Relay Chat), the Net social appendage where a lot of college 
students spend their time while on the system. The number 
of current participants followed each channel name, and 
sometimes a discussion topic followed as well. It looked 
something like this: 

#SeaFood 1 
#disney no violence, nudity or bad language 
allowed 
#malaysia 54 
#canada 
NUDE '!WISTER PARTY TONIGHT 
#sex 29 
LIFE SUCKS!! SO DOES PHYSICS 
#Sweden 4 
Land of cOnFuSiOn! 
# [$8$0$- [ ( 

Moria warned me that this last channel was private, and 
that the channel operator had to invite me to join. No 
worry-there were hundreds of open channels, with knowl-
edgeable and friendly users who could tell me more about 
this place called cyberspace. 

I noticed that #malaysia had drawn by far the largest 
crowd. I had read about foreign freedom fighters, like those 
journalists in Russia and Yugoslavia who had sent their 
reports on the Internet when all other avenues had been 
closed to them. Perhaps I had found their Asian counter-
parts. I decided to find out: /join #malaysia. 
***slim(-slim@MINERVA.cis .yale .edu) has 
joined channel #malaysia 
<addi> nani nantilah hari rabu kot .. 
because on tuesday ada kelas pagi 


--- Page 29 ---

=-· <BULLS> nani, I callll uuuuuuu ... hehehehehe 
<lalat> nani pleeez le 
<HET> BIOL : 
ok geng , pi cari kawar baru 
<nani> nem: cit! 

With over 50 people logged on, #malaysia's conversation 
zipped along, line after line of indecipherable text slipping 
onto the bottom of the screen. I sensed that addi, lalat, and 
company were probably not exchanging news of political 
developments, but rather personal updates. I had nothing to 
say. I panicked. What if they were saying something about 
me, about loser Americans who crashed their party? I didn't 
belong here and I knew it: /leave #malaysia. 
***slim(-slim@MINERVA .cis .yale . edu) has 
left channel #malaysia 

Okay. The words stopped flowing. So did m y sweat. I 
needed a break from eavesdropping. 

I
nternet founders probably never envisioned an interna-
tional cartel of bored college students when, back in 
1969, they set up the utilitarian ARPANET, a U.S. 
Defense Department network for military research. Fifteen 
years later, the National Science Foundation's NSFNET 
opened up access to networks, which previously had been 
limited . to computer science researchers, government 
employees, and government contractors. The NSF offered 
to connect universities if they promised to spread access to 
students; and with free use of an otherwise costly system, 
college students make up a significant portion of Net users. 
On IRC, procr~tination vehicle extraordinaire, everyone is 
a college student-almost. 
<Jay> slim where are you stuctying? 
>Yale 
<Jay> neat I feel honored to be typing with 
a Yale fellow 
<Whoa> me too 
>no really guys, please 
<KnOt> Not I 
<Whoa> Hey Knot, aren't you from Stanford 
<Knot> nu uh . . 
>Harvard? 
*Knot is in high school 
<Whoa> Not! really, knot? 
<Knot> Really 
<Jay> Knot, shouldn ' t you be in bed? 
***Nelmar (kateye@ACS . BU .EDU) has joined 
channel #bored 
<Jay> Knot, seriously, my friend . 
A grow 

ing human needs plenty of REM s leep 
<Nelmar> I feel so old 
<whoa> How old are you anyway? 
<Knot> I 'm 14! 
<Jay> no way! 
>You ' re probably the only one here who has 
n ' t passed his sexual prime .. 
<Knot> I ' m not a his, thank you 
>oops, sorry 
<whoa> Go girl ! 

It was then that I learned never to assume anything on 
the Net. Ordinary circumstances may not offer opportuni-
ties for 14-year-old high school girls and 22-year-old college 
boys to converse, but ordinary circumstances do not apply 
to the Net. 

Fortunately, my kind #bored friends understood that, 
as a Nee neophyte, I was still struggling with the basics. I 
could barely follow the train of thought on #bored, not to 
mention all those asterisks and arrows. I needed the experi-
ence of a recognized Net master, like my friend Phoebe. She 
joined me at a computer and tried to explain the Net's 
nuances. 

"I use it far too often," Phoebe confessed. "You meet 
strange people on the Internet, wacky people. You either get 
the people who are really depressed, really lonely, or don't fit 
in. Social misfits." She could not be calking about my 
Internet buddies. "Most of the people you talk to on it are 
at least moderately depressed. I've had people cry on my 
shoulder." I imagined salty drops condensing on her moni-
tor. "It fosters escape from the real world. 

"I have hangouts," Phoebe cold me as she joined #Kill. 
"The people all know each other. You have inside jokes. 
That's one of the advantages of being an IRC regular." 

Phoebe showed me the channel roster, and I noticed repre-
sentatives from Michigan, Ohio, Colorado, California, 
Virginia, fiew Zealand, and New York. Sometimes a Yale 
professor logs on, but Phoebe doesn't know who it is. 
<RINGO> HI ALL 
<She-hulk> don't yell 

With caps for loudness, these experienced Net U;Sers 
conveyed emotion on the channel. " : ) is a smiley face." 
Phoebe pointed to the screen. " ; )-that's a wink. : ( is a 
frown." I learned that triple asterisks mean an adminis-
trative change, like someone joining or leaving, and a 
single asterisk prefaces the self-narration some Net 


--- Page 30 ---

users prefer to direct dialogue. 

Other shortcuts: ROFL (rolls on 
the floor laughing), BTW (by the 
way), and IMHO (in my humble 
opinion). This night, however, no 
one seemed especially humble. 
<brae> is this the lol 
lipop channel? 
<HOTLEZFEM> C'MON BABE!!! 
ME AND YOU!!! 
<Larks> hahahahahaha 
<Tailgunnr> 
hmm, 
what 
flavors do we have 
tonight? 
*HOTLEZFEM GYRATES SUG 
GESTIVELY IN FRONT OF 
RINGO ... 
<RINGO> WHO SPEAK SPANISH 
HER?? 
*Prism* Indeed .. who knows 
what fate will bring 
*thoughtful look* 
<HOTLEZFEM> DONDE ESTA 
CASA DE PEPE? 
***HOTLEZFEM is now known 
as lockjaw 

I was not laughing as heartily as 
Phoebe. I wanted the warm fuzzies of 
#bored. "Pick a school." Phoebe 
turned to me. "Okay, U of Chicago it 
is." She entered a series of characters 
and up came a list of all Chicago stu-
dents presently on the Net-their 
login names and which channel they 
had joined. I noticed that one was on 
#hardsex and wondered if he wanted 
two hackers from Yale to know his 
whereabouts. Of course, most Net reg-
ulars have accepted the lack of privacy 
as part of the login process. Basically, 
being on the Net means being 
exposed. Even classified government 
computers, with all their security 
checks, have had unwelcome visitors. 
Because the Internet, actually a con-
glomeration of hundreds of local com-
puter networks, reaches over 50 coun-
..tries, locating and punishing these 
hackers can be tough, especially those 
who route their calls thro\lgh the 
Netherlands, where no laws regulating 
computer access exist. 

I don't think Phoebe had such 
grand designs, although she did enjoy 
devices suitable for international espi-
onage. At will, she ignored RINGO 
(RINGO's entries did not appear on 
Phoebe's computer). She directed pri-
vate remarks to Prism that no one else 
received. She observed two channels 
simultaneously. If she missed some-
thing, she scrolled back the conversa-
tion, a wire tapper in a time machine. 
Maybe she had found me the other 
night, retraced my series of mistakes, 
and shown them .. to her ruthless Net 
companions for amusement. 

I had seen enough snooping for 
one night, so I thanked Phoebe and 
found my own computer. Quiet stu-
dents, typing furiously, packed the 
computer room, though midnight had 
already passed. No one ever looked up 
or talked to anyone else, but from time 
to time someone would burst out 
laughing, then quickly stifle it. This 
time around I wanted channels that 
promised support. Hoping to find my 
friends whoa and Jay again-they had 
treated me so well-I hopped on 
#bored. But this time I found only 
Art-Hat, engaged in what seemed to 
be a monologue on the fate of the 
shoe. This would not do. I wanted 
people I could trust. 
***slim(-slim@MINERVA.ci 
s .ya'le. edu) has joined 
channel #Gospel 
<Treese> hi slim 
>hi there, have I come to 
the right place? 
<Treese> depends on what 
you consider right? 
>Well, I'm new to the 
Internet ; i'm just 
looking for some folks 
who can understand me 
> : ) 
<Treese> ok 
<Treese> 
Christian? 
are 
you 
>what were you discussing 
before I rudely inter 
rupted? 
<Treese> notiH([ 
<Treese> nothing 
>oh ... I see 
***slim has left channel 
#Gospel 

**Title: Untitled**
**Author: David Gerber**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Now I had really blown it. Those 
#Gospel folks could track me down, 
find me, discover that I was j ewish. All 
it would take is a simple /finger slim. 
The command would call up my 
name, year of graduation, and residen-
tial college. My recent login times-
for IRC, E-mail, or whatever-
would 
follow. Even without this technique, 
they could trace me to Yale from my 
official domain address (MINERVA 
cis.yale.edu). "MINERVA" is the 
name of the computer through which 
I accessed the Internet; "cis" is the 
group that created and maintains this 
computer name; "yale" indicates that 
this group lies within Yale University; 
and "edu" designates the domain con-
taining all computers in all U.S. edu-
cational institutions. 


Other domains include "com" 
(commercial), "gov," and "mil." Users 
in these realms generally stay away 
from IRC and stick with services like 
USENETNews, the world's largest 
electronic bulletin board, and ftp (file 
transfer protocol). With these tools, 
they gain access to hundreds of 
resources: Homebrew Digest (beer 
recipes), Frequently Asked Questions 
about becoming an astronaut {cour-
tesy of NASA), the Simpsons archive, 
Guitar Chords and Tablature, and 
countless others. 


But I was just looking for some-
one to hang out with. Still traumatized 
by my self-imposed excommunication 
from #Gospel', I needed a more 
relaxed, mellow environment. 
***slim(-slim@MINERVA.cis 
yale .edu) has joined 
channel #Marijuana 
***Users on #Marijuana : 
slim Weedbot @SharpBot 
@Dopebot 
>yo 
> : I 
>il y a quelquun dans la 
maison? 
>OU sont les neiges d'an 
tan? 
***Signoff :WeedBot 
(goren.u .washington .edu 
penfold.ea .uiuc .edu) 
>Casey Jones you better 
DECEMBER 3, 1993 
watch your speed 
>howdy 
>QUe pasa chicos? 
>thanks, dudes .. 
***slim has left channel 
#Marijuana 
Nothing could arouse Weedbot, 
SharpBot, and DopeBot. I had tried in 
three languages, waiting after each 
attempt. No response. I pictured the 
three of them staring blankly at their 
monitors. Maybe they had slid off 
their chairs and onto their floors, 
Maybe they had found some way to 
communicate that did not require 
computers. Whatever the case, they 
weren't in the mood to talk to me, or 
to each other. I tried again, this time 
wishing for some Southern hospitality. 
***slim(-slim@MINERVA .cis 
yale . edu) has joined 
channel #Texas 
***Topic for #Texas : 
The 
Finest in Social 
Intercourse (tm) 
***Users on #texas : 
slim 
Kkat Javatoo Funball 
flynn Electra snausages 
skimbles @Taxman 
<snausages> see ya 
***JavaMan (rpd 3@ghost 
wheel . BGA .COM)has 
joined channel #texas 
<skimbles> kkat takes you 
that long? heck mine 
is already up . 
<skimbles> i set it up 
when football starts so 
the cowboys will win : ) 
<Kkat> well .... i need to 
get moine from my par 
ents house ... .. 
<JavaMan> how long was 
that kick, anyone know? 
Not even a simple "hi slim." Gone 
were the days of warm greetings and 
inclusive conversations. I left skimbles 
and snausages to their cryptic discus-
sion, wanting to know why they didn't 
like slim, whom they had never seen, 
heard, or spoken to. Then I gave it one 
last shot. Hours before, I had noticed 
channel #yale, but no one had logged 
on. Now, after 2:00 am, I joined. 
channel #yale 
***Users on #yale : @slim 
*** #yale: 
No topic set 
yet . 
* **sl~m has changed the 
topic on channel #yale 
to the ivy league blues 
Still no one home. I created a topic 
suited to my mood. I waited. About 
ten minutes later, I had company. 
***kjc9(kjc@jambo .cc .col 
umbia . edu l has joined 
<kjc9> hello? 
<kjc9> anyone home? 
>what ' s up kjc9? 
<kjc9> nothing much 
>boring Friday night? 
<kjc9> you know it . 
<kjc9> where you from? 
>Toledo, Ohio 
>and you? 
<kjc9> miami 
>do you use the internet 
every night? 
<kjc9> no, just messing 
around with 
columbianet tonight . 
Do you? 
>im new to this, but i 
might start 
<kjc9> How is Yale 
<kjc9> I heard it looks 
rickety 
>smells funny too 
<kjc9> good old connecti 
cut 
<kjc9> well, got to go . 
talk to you later 
***Signoff : 
kjc9 (Leaving) 
The final message interrupted me 
in mid-sentence-"yup. well g-." 
kjc9 had taken the words right out of 
my fingers. I too had planned to leave. 
kj c9 and I had raced, and I had lost. 
He or she had escaped the void first, 
and I was alone once again. Out of the 
N e t's estimated 30 million users, I 
could not find one who would talk to 
me. I had let m y personality shine 
through all right, right through the 
computer screen. It was blank. 
Ia) 
David Gerber, a junior in Trumbull 
Colkge, is associate editor ojTNJ. 
THE NEw jouRNAL 31 



Resumes) tabletents) 
posters) course material) 
typesettin~jProm 
Macintosh disks 
&whatnot ... 
432-copy (432-2679) 
Septembe~ ()ctober, 
January) February: 
8-6:30 Mon-Fri 
lVovember, lJece~ber, 
March) April) May: 
8-s:oo Mon-Fri 
Copies 
only 
4-¢* 
Still the 
lowest 
• 
prtces 
in Elm 
City! 
• per copy for more than ten copies 
of the same origintl-1; 
the price is ~ 
cents each 
for one to ten copies.

