Publication date: October 1, 1974
Volume: eight
Issue number: one

**MASTHEAD**
- Editor-in-Chief: David Sleeper
- Executive Editor: Daniel Denton
- Managing Editor: Stephen Sternbach
- Designer: Marla Schay
- Production Editor: Tammy Jacoby
- Associate Editor: Michael Jacobson
- Business Manager: Steve Ballou
- Circulation Manager: Nancy Olcott
- Photography: Ann Sprunt
- Staff: Naemi Stilman, Larry Yang
- Contributing Editors: Ron Roel, Stu Rohrer, Steve Weisman, Daniel Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- Get that building off our back - Daniel Denton
- After the Right On's - David Sleeper and Patrick Hamilton
- Blue Collar and the Old Blue - Peter Kaufmann
- Finding the Fluid Middle - Carla Solomon and Stephen Sternbach
- Wayward Journey - Alan Strasser


**Title: Get that building off our back**
**Author: Daniel Denton**
**Page number(s): 2, 15**

"The University doesn't seem to care 
until it would be embarassing not to. 
Is a safe place to work too much to 
ask? --Anne Maginnis, Art Library 
staff meJI?.ber. 

"Yes, I'm bitter. I thought I might 
go blind. But we're starting to see 
things moue at last. "--Robert 
Kaufmann, Art Librarian. 

"I am an architect. (pause] I suppose 
I don't need to comment on these 
problems." -~Paul Rudolph, architect. 

In the Art & Architecture Building 
discontent has given way to a quiet 
sense of danger. Workers wearing 
masks and respirators will begin rip-
ping out the asbestos ceilings that 
have rained down fibers for a decade. 
The old orange rugs will be destroy-
ed. Each book in the basement li-
brary will be vacuum-cleaned and 
shuffled to the Cross Campus Li-
brary for the year. The building is 
not safe. 

To the users of the building, par-
ticularly the librarians, news of the 
hazards came as no surprise. That 
the University would try so hard to 
remove them did, however, and the 
story of that decision is complex. It 
involves a Yale doctor who was 
asked by superiors to "cease and 
desist" the investigation that actual-
ly brought the hazards to light. It 
involves university officials who 
knew remarkably little about a build-
ing that has plagued them from the 
day it opened. And it centers around 
the workers in the building and the 
years of complaints that seem now 
like a fever finally breaking. 

The story began in 1963 when Paul 
Rudolph, the architect of the A & A 
building, had asbestos blown onto .1 
some 70,000 square feet of ceiling 
during the final stages of construc-
tion. The snowy texture was quite 
fashionable then. That the ceilings 
had not been approved by the design 
committee did not matter, for as 
comment: Daniel Denton explores the perils of the Art and Architecture 
building; Emily Leamon takes a jaundiced look at the world's 
largest condensing mill.


Dean of the Architecture School Ru-
dolph enjoyed the double role of 
client and architect. Alvin Eisen-
man, a member of that committee, 
remembers Rudolph as "a very 
powerful man, a man who thought 
that middle class concerns like build-
ing codes were holding back his artis-
tic ambitions." Rudolph says he 
knew nothing of the dangers of the 
fiber then. "I liked the look of it," he 
says and has reportedly compared it 
to "clouds in the sky." 

By 1970 some states had out· 
lawed asbestos ceilings and the 
people upon whom Rudolph's clouds 
were raining began to worry. 

The University decided to remedy 
the problem by painting the asbestos 
with a latex sealer. This solution 
seems to have succeeded only in 
making the ceiling coarser and the 
fibers heavier--mor-e prone to fall. 

To the staff of the library the fee-
ble remedy was nothing new. It fit 
into a larger pattern of frustrations, 
of piecemeal attempts to make the 
building liveable. The water had 
never been good-·"lt was the color of 
chicken bullion," says Anne Magin-
nis, and the staff resorted to buying 
their own water. During the summer, 
librarians suffered nausea and head· 
aches, symptoms qf heat stress. Jn 
the winter, temperatures would reach 
ten degrees below the minimum estab-
lished by state law: 68 degrees. 

The University had been treating 
some of these inadequacies on the 
higher floors of the building. A mas-
sive fire in 1969 had provided the 
necessity and the means--$800,000 
insurance payment--for renovation, 
and a number of problems were cor-
rected in the process. The University 
spent at least another $200,000 in 
repairs on a building that, according 
to John Embersits, Director of Uru· 
versity Operations, "was not de-
signed with function in mind " 

·Conditions m the library impfoved 
little and the staff continued to send 
furious memoranda to the library 
administration. Eventuallv many 
resigned themselves to the tacts and 
learned to joke about the water and 
the heat and the falling dust. 

Then why the sudden barrage of 
relief for the library'! 

The impetus came from two men 
who possess strong doses of irrever· 
ence--Robert Kaufmann and Dr. 
Robert Sawyer, a physician at the 
Yale Health Servicesr. Kaufmann, in 
a!1 emotional way, and Sawyer in a 
scientific way, made the potential 
dangers of the building seem sud-
denly real. 

"I'm basically a pushy, bitchy 
New Yorker," says Kaufmann, "and 
I just didn't give up when I saw that 
my eyesight might be at stake." 

Kaufmann is actually a mild Ala-
baman who describes anger as "hav-
ing your ass on your shoulders." He 
has lately come to know the feeling 
well. 

Last July, Dr. Sawyer ordered 
Kaufmann to leave his library. An 
eye injury Kaufmann had received 
away from work was failing to heal, 
and he had begun to awake in the 
morning wjt;h his eye dry and pain-
ful. When h~ would open his eye the 
surface tissue of his eyelid would 
tear. Yale physicians examined his 
eyes and foqnd what they thought 
might be asbestos fibers. A biopsy 
sample was scraped from Kauf-
mann's eye and sent to New York's 
Mt. Sinai Hospital for electron mi· 
croscopy. No word has come yet, but 
if the.biopsy reveals asbestos Kauf-
mann may sue the University. 

Three other staff members have 
been experiencing conjunctivitis, an 
irritation of the mucous membrane of 
the eye. But since Kaufmann's prob· 
lem is more serious, they remain in 
the building. Kaufmann, who has 
been directing the staff by telephone, 
has visited only once since July--
wearing plastic goggles. 

" I'm sure they feel as if I've de-
serted them," says Kaufmann. Al· 
though Kaufmann's separation 
caused difficulties in communication 
throughout the summer, only after 
the University announced its plans 
did the anxiety of some staff mem· 
hers become intense. 

"The asbestos will be flying soon," 
says Sonja Bay, another librarian. 
"They expect us to go on working as 
usual--how naive can they be?" 

Kaufmann's misfortune became a 
graphic focus for the staff's discon-
tent, and it raised their complaints to 
a pitch that could not be ignored. 

But the main impetus for relief came 
on August 20 from Dr. Sawyer in a 
16-page report that did what should 
have been done long before--it fully 
documented the hazards of.the build· 
ing, cited the law, and made s~ific 
recommendations. 

"Very little was really known 
about the building," says Sawyer. 
"In view of all the complaints--if 
. they burned them they could heat 
1 
the building for the winter--the ignor-
~ 


--- Page 4 ---

ance was just astounding." 
The report made it clear that the 
University had violated state and 
federal laws protecting workers from 
asbestos exposure. It recommended 
the immediate removal of the asbes-
tos and other measures to make the 
building safe. 
Embersits denies that the Univer-
sity has violated any laws. He says 
that the University has taken action 
because of "growing concern" of the 
staff and the medical report. He 
points to the fact that the project 
was approved without any serious 
opposition from the staff in a meet-
ing on August 27. 
But the staff members do not agree. 
They have been working without any 
promises of compensation for the 
hazards they have faced. 
"We had no choice," says Magin-
nis. "We knew that they were going 
to do this eventually, we just hoped 
they would do it with more respect." 
The University has not decided 
whether or not to compensate the 
staff or to hire an outside agency 
to determine the full scope of health 
hazards. The decision to remove 
the asbestos and the rugs and to 
clean the library, a project of 
$100,000, may not satisfy the staff, 
particularly those who have suffered 
health problems. But to Kaufmann 
and others, the decision marks the 
end of a long battle, or at least the 
beginning of a new one. 


**Title: After the Right On's: an interview with William Sloane Coffin**
**Author: David Sleeper and Patrick Hamilton**
**Page number(s): 3, 4**

«William Sloane Coffin., Jr., Chap-
lain at Yale. Mailer had some re-
collection that Coffin had been 
arrested in the South on one civil 
rights affair or another, perhaps in 
Selma. The man was not unimpres-
sive at all; Mailer felt a dim in-
crease of cheer: our Yale Chaplain 
looked like a winner. " 
from The Armies of the Night, 
by Norman Mailer 

After a year long sabbatical in 
California, William Sloane Coffin 
is back at Yale--and back to stay. 
For Coffin it was more than a year 
of relaxation and reflection. It was a 
year in which J eb Magruder linked 
Coffin's name to the Watergate sce-
nario by claiming that Coffin (his 
former ethics teacher at Williams 
College) had broken the law dur-
ing peace demonstrations. Also last 
year, Douglas Dillon, the former 
Secretary of the Treasury, offered 
Coffin a full time position with the 
new Institute for World Order, an 
organization oriented toward a glob-
al future. He considered it seriously 
but refused. 

The following are largely unedited 
remarks from a casual conversation 
with William Sloane Coffin over 
lunch at Berkeley College. 

NJ: What's this about your 
writing an autobiography? Isn't that 
sort of an ego trip? 

Coffin: Well, that's what I 
thought. So I said to these several 
publishers who were nice enough to 
think I had something to say, why 
don't you publish my sermons, after 
all, that's my art form. They said, if 
you insist we will. We'd rather do 
that secondly, we want your auto-
biography. I said that's kind of pre-
sumptions isn't it? I'm not even fifty 
and I'm to write an autobiography as 
if my life is some kind of Norman 
Mailer litmus paper through which 
everything that is past can come out 
with enormous interest? They said if 
you want to wait until you're senile 
and write something sentimental, 
feel free. But we kind of hoped you'd 
write something tough minded that 
talked a lot about your failures. I got 
sort of intrigued by that. I began to 
see that an honest account of how it 
was with me--with the implication 
being how was it with you-could be a 
useful book for others, as well as un-
doubtedly a wicked form of therapy 
for myself. 

NJ: Might it tum out to be just 
another Magruder book? 

Coffin: I tell you, my wife and I 
made the appointment with Ma-
gruder to meet the head of A then-
eum. A kind of ornery instinct of 
mine said, if Magruder can write a 
book, then dammit, Coffin, (laughs) 
so can you, and have something 
more to say. 

NJ: You mentioned in your review 
of Magruder's book in Harpers that 
his writing did not mean as much to 
Magruder as it should have--that it 
might have been just another PR 
stunt. How will yours be different 
from that? 

Coffin: I think Jeb, as I said, 
wrote too fast. It was ghost written 
and he had to get it done before he 
went to jail to get that money for his 
family and all. I'm not under that 
same pressure. So I hope I '11 take a 
little more time on some of the more 
difficult problems. For instance, 
what does public life do to your pri-
vate life? And have I engaged in 
action as an opiate or as a stimulant? 
I'm not saying it's a deeply intro-
spective book, but I'm going to try 
and write about things--well, I have a 
hard time still talking about it, be-
cause I'm still a little embarassed by 
it. I think that the more personal the 
book is, the better it's going to be. 
For instance, born a WASP in New 
York, I know that in my upbringing 
correctness in behaviour won out 
over honesty of feeling. But I can be 
very specific about what feelings 
were repressed. And what about the 
return of the repressed, did it come 
back? Music was a big thing in my 
life, it was the only place where I was 
really free to express all my emo-
tions. I wanted to be a concert 
pianist. So, there's that kind of 
thing. My hope in dealing with civil 
rights and the anti-war movement in 
the book is to do it rather pastorally, 
not just as a chronicle of events. 

NJ: What sort of change did come 
over you when you became an Amer-
ican folk hero? Towards the end of 
the sixties, students would write 
things like this, from the University of 
Michigan, "Combining his compas-
sion with his energy and unrelenting 
faith and conviction, he is the im-
petus for the movement to continue. 
We don't need a lot of Reverend 
Coffins. But we do need at least 
one." Etc. Etc. 

Coffin: Go right ahead. (laughs) 

NJ: Did you feel comfortable 
underallthatadulation? 

Coffin: Well, if you don't inhale, I 
always figured it wasn't too danger-
ous. No, I enjoy 3000 people coming 
out to hear what I have to say if 
what I have to say is important to 
me to say it. No, I have not suffered 
from a shrinking ego, I know that 
perfectly well. But that's the kind of 
thing that's good to write about. I 
thought at the time, one, that I 
enjoyed it; and two, that I was grate-
ful to the government for giving me 
that platform. See, you ~~_indicted, 




**An Interview with William Sloane Coffin, Jr.**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
and right away Playboy wants an 
interview, and then "Meet the 
. Press." A lovely irony, the govern-
ment gives you a platform by oppos-
ing you. 

On the other hand, you have to be 
very aware that what you say you 
don't just say to get the right on's. 
And writing about this period is 
going to be difficult. One of the 
reasons is that it's very painful. For 
instance, we didn't listen to each 
other. "Right On Right On" is not 
listening. And passion did distort 
judgement to an enormous degree. 
People, as I used to say, hated evil 
more than they loved the good, so 
they ended up damn good haters. 
The interesting thing is you really 
only find out how much you enjoyed 
it when you lose it. Where I used to 
go I'd get two or three thousand 
people out there. Now, no one has 
even heard of Coffin. That's good 
experience--I don't say I like it, but 
it's chastening. I don't think I ever 
had the problem of needing a public 
to maintain my identity. That was a 
problem in the peace movement. 
NJ: Did you ever feel trapped by 
your role? 
Coffin: I never thought I was 
under any pressure to say things I 
didn't want to say. It just so happen-
ed that what I wanted very much to 
say, other people wanted to hear 
said--they felt the same way. I felt 
that my primary role was raising to a 
conscious level the feelings that were 
inherent in thousands of people. In 
that sense there was a role to be 
played. 
NJ: Are you feeling too old for this 
sort of part today? 
Coffin: I turned fifty this year. My 
wife said to me you went from thirty-
five to eighty-five overnight. And 
you know, when you reach the age of 
fifty you don't have to become 
mellow, there's no single reason in 
the world for anyone to become 
The New Journal! October 1, 1974/4 
mellow. But you ought to become 
more compassionate and you ought 
to be able to distill from a lot of ex-
perience with a little more insight, a 
willingness to engage in subtlety. 
NJ: It's when your hair starts 
turning gray, you can sit back and 
reflect. 
Coffin: No, I'm not saying you sit 
back. I always felt there was a kind 
of rhythm, you see it in the New 
Testament. Jesus goes up on the 
mountain to pray, and then he's 
down in the valley to heal; he's back 
off by himself reflecting, and then 
he's in the Garden of Gethsemane 
getting arrested, and then he's hang-
ed in the most public place. But 
there's an engagement-detachment 
rhythm to life which I think does 
have to be maintained. If you don't 
pull out and reflect, you may simply 
be using action as an opiate instead 
of as a stimulant. 
NJ: Was your sabbatical largely 
that? 
Coffin: Oh yeah, I didn't do any-
thing active at all except play touch 
football. 
NJ: When you write a sermon for 
Chapel here--for instance your am-
nesty sermon--do you mean it to be 
religious or political? 
Coffin: I think there are non-
political dimensions to political 
issues, which are a religious concern. 
If you view amnesty as a political 
non-political dimensions of political 
issues. That's why Billy Graham is 
..,) 
not politically dangerous in the way 
. Jesus was. 
' 
NJ: You said once that Nixon 
used to surround himself with clergy-
men who were "house niggers." Is 
that the sort of thing you mean? 
Coffin: Yeah. Reverence for God 
entails a certain irreverence for hu-
man institutions, all human insti-
tutions, including especially the 
church. The faith gives you a sort of 
detachment. If you can say a mighty 
fortress is my God, and not a mighty 
fortress is my country, or my job, my 
reputation, my money, my family--
then you have a kind of freedom to 
be critical of all kinds of human insti-
tutions and actions. But if you get 
somebody in the White House like 
Rabbi Korff or this nut McGlaughlin 
who are simply sprinkling holy water 
on every kind of unholy thought and 
act--that's not religious. 
• ~ 
NJ: Even Billy Graham did that 
for a long time. 
Coffin: He did. You know it's 
funny, I wrote Billy Graham on 
amnesty. I thought I could persuade 
him that there was something in it 
for Mrs. Graham a.nd the kids, to put 
it cynically. 
NJ: Did he reply? 
Coffin: Yeah. I wrote him about 
how I applied the biblical text of the 
Year Jubilee to amnesty and he 
.] get very annoyed when people call me anti--
intellectual because ideas have c~nged my 
life to an extraordinary degree. 
issue, purely as a political issue, then 
your definition is not adequate. It's 
a question of how justice is to be tem-
pered with mercy? Do all laws have 
to be enforced simply because people 
can't get away with anything? Is 
there such a thing as the bar of his-
tory--where God's judgement and 
society's judgement can take place? 
Now these are all sort of non-political 
dimensions of political issues. I think 
that's where the preacher comes in. 
Too many people like Billy Graham 
say politics is over here and religion 
is over there. Which is to 
the 
wrote back right away, saying he 
had never thought of it. Of course he 
wouldn't because he's a law and 
order man and doesn't understand 
grace. But we never got together. We 
had an appointment and then he had 
to break it, and then I went off to 
Hanoi and then I got a letter from 
his secretary saying Dr. Graham felt 
that perhaps we would both feel 
more free to talk after the election. 
So I wrote back and said I can't 
believe that Dr. Graham thinks poli-
tical considerations can dictate 
terms of interchange between two 
Christians. (laughs) I never heard 
from him again. 
NJ: Are you aware of the fact that 
many non-believers come to hear you 
preach in Batten Chapel? 
Coffin: In an academic community 
you're apt to have a lot of people who 
are far from willing to stand up and 
make a confession of faith, and that 
is right and proper. I think as long as 
one is asking the right questions one 
is already of the truth. 
NJ: Do you mold your sermons for 
the non-believer, who comes only to 
hear your political views? 


--- Page 5 ---

The New Journal /October 1, 1974 /5 
Coffin: We have to be very cogni· 
:!\ zant of the fact that he doesn't feel 
' one excluded, because he's a non· 
believer. And one way you don't 
make him feel excluded is by addres· 
sing him in a language he will under· 
stand, with illustrations that won't 
put him off. I'm always puzzled 
when I drive around with the radio 
on in the car and I hear some of these 
religious programs. What the guy is 
actually saying I'm apt to believe 
just as much as be does, but some-
how the way it's coming out strikes 
me as unbelievably false. "Being 
washed in the blood of the lamb," 
let's take a phrase like that. Now 
that can move the hell out of me. But 
I would never use that phrase in 
Batten unless I explained it. That's 
the kind of response to the non· 
believer that's called for. Now if you 
get up and use straight religious Ian· 
guage and talk about Sin, Salvation, 
~" God, Jesus Christ, you can do it in 
such a way that people feel not only 
that you're not speaking to them, 
but you don't care about them. 
That's the problem with the God 
Squad here. Their use of language 
shows a remarkable absence of sensi· 
tivity. So there's certainly that type 
of consideration. 
NJ: Are you out to convert, too? 
Coffin: It would be selfish of me 
not to share that which means most. 
If the proper questions are being 
asked, and being asked with real per· 
sonal concern, then I'm doing my 
job. And I certainly don't worry that 
·<iod needs for his continued exis· 
tence my continued proof of it. Nor 
do I really think it is absolutely nee· 
essary that people believe in God. 
I had a very moving final talk with 
Norman Thomas just before he died--
he was on his deathbed, blind, arth· 
ritic, he could hardly move. And I 
asked him, I said Big Daddy do you 
believe in God? And he said, well, I 
don't believe in that all-loving and 
all-powerful God your uncle Henry 
and Emerson Fosworth used to teach 
us. This was at Union Theological 
Seminary. And I said, don't you 
believe that love is self restricting 
when it comes to power? And he 
said, yeah, I guess you can go a long 
way.with that. And I said let's face it 
Big Daddy, whether or not you be· 
lieve in God isn't really very impor· 
tant. What is important is whether 
God believes in you. And I am pre· 
pared to say quite dogmatically that 
you are his beloved servant. And he 
smiled, he was right at the threshold 
of death, and he smiled and said, you 
know, that made me feel good. 
(laughs) And I meant it too, I wasn't 
playing games with the old boy. I 
loved that man, he was a great man. 
And I meant that. 
NJ: Do you feel your place is at 
Yale? Why didn't you take the pos· 
ition the Institute for World Order 
offered you? 
Coffin: I trust instinct a lot. In· 
stinct didn't quite come through and 
say, you gotta go. That job was very 
tempting. This group is really com· 
mitted to a global future. In the next 
ten years people should be able to 
think globally. They came to me and 
said this is a religious vision isn't it? 
I said yes it is. Isn't it true that 
humankind is already unified by 
God? they asked. And I said, that's 
right. So what are you doing about 
it? I said, well, I try and preach it, 
and they said no, that's not enough. 
We want you to organize a whole reli· 
gious community in this country. We 
know that there must be conscious· 
ness raising and unless there's a 
spiritual dimension, a moral base·· 
broadly defined and generally accep· 
ted--then this movement is not going 
to get off the ground, and it probably 
won't anyway. But it's the right 
thing to do and that's why we're 
asking you to do it. That is a very 
powerful plea, you know, one that I 
couldn't help but respond to. I would 
like to think··at least for the time 
being--that I can do some of it and 
still remain at Yale. At Yale it's a 
terrible thing that we don't have a 
global studies program, that we still 
think in terms of international affairs 
instead of global affairs. Why is it 
that in order to feel in, we have to 
feel that somebody else is out? The 
faithful always need the infidel to 
confirm them in their fidelity. And 
Americans always need somebody 
over there to confirm them in their 
Americanism. Now if the guys from 
Mars would only--maybe we can just 
fake it a little and say they're coming 
from Mars-boy, then we'll have 
world unity like that. You can do 
that, I'm going to try and do that 
here; if you do it at Yale, maybe we 
can help other people do it a bit too. 
I don't like to give up the com· 
munity. Yale is home, and the 
church, I'm a churchman. I feel it 
very deeply, to have a church and be 
in a community, is something very 
important to me. 
NJ: But why here? 
Coffin: I still naively believe, 
maybe naively, that the saving rem· 
nant in this country is the univer· 
sity. I still believe in the education 
with a human face. The question is 
now do the humanities humanize? 
Do they always humanize or do they 
just neutralize? And since World 
War II we've known that people can 
bum Jews to death all day long in 
gas chambers and go home and read 
Rilke and listen to the Rasumowsky 
quartets of Beethoven. So we can't 
be that optimistic that education 
their knowledge and who know that 
loveless knowledge is ultimately triv· 
ial, certainly irrelevant. I think the 
faculty is a very repressed group, re-
pressed and oppressed. I've been 
here 16 years, and that question in 
really sharp focus form has never 
been raised for the university as a 
whole to confront. Do the humanities 
still humanize? 
NJ: It seems like a very commend· 
able goal, but how do you go about 
humanizing the humanities? 
Coffin: Well, first of all I think 
that when you get somebody who 
passionately believes in the serious· 
.ness of what he's teaching that it 
becomes a serious enterprise to ev· 
erybody else. That was Staughton 
Lynd's big gift. Everyone knew that 
Staughton was personally deeply 
committed to what he was teaching·· 
and didn't insist that everyone agree 
with his ideas, but that everybody 
I don't like to give up the community. Yale is 
home, and the church, well, I'm a churchman. 
makes people humanely literate. The 
fact is that the worst evils of the cen· 
tury have arisen in the most civilized 
country, in terms of the highest 
number of people at the universities. 
So you can't automatically assume 
anymore that education makes peo-
ple any more human. And there's 
lots of evidence that says it goes for 
gain rather than growth. I'd like to 
make that kind of fight here. There 
are enough professors here who 
really are deeply human, who love 
more or less agreed with his ques· 
tions, and come to their own personal 
kind of conclusions. 
There's also the question of what 
dimension you're going to teach. Are 
you going to teach Hawthorne with· 
out going into the problem of what's 
sin? You can. You can teach Dostoy· 
evsky and never really be changed 
by it, never even know that Raskol-
nikov was a heretic. I think the 
pressures on intellectuals are to be 
less intellectual and more scholarly, 
(continued-on page 14) 


--- Page 6 ---

**Blue Collar and the Old Blue**
**Author: Peter Kaufmann**
**Page number(s): 6**

Graduation at Yale is strictly an 
ivory tower affair, problems from the 
outside world are not supposed to 
intrude. But last May, in order to 
keep worldly problems apart from 
the commencement ceremonies, cam-
pus police were stationed at the gate-
ways to the Old Campus, and tarpau-
li.ns were draped over the fences. 
While proud parents watched sons 
and daughters receive Yale degrees, 
the chants of DON'T DICTATE! 
NEGOTIATE! intermingled with 
the solemn festivities. For the third 
time in as many contract negotia-
tions, the blue collar workers of 
Local35 engaged Yale University in 
a labor dispute--this one leading to a 
ten week walkout. 

The strike raised troubling ques-
tions about labor-management re-
lations at Yale. At issue was--and 
still is--Yale's priorities in allocating 
its financial resources. 

As the situation stands today, the 
1,100 workers of Local35 (Feder-
ation of University Employees, 
AFL-CIO, a local of The Hotel and 
Restaurant Employees Internation-
al) are back on the job. But there-
cent walkout only halted when both 
parties agreed to submit thirteen 
unresolved issues to an independent 
fact-finder, Eric Schmertz, who will 
present non-binding recommenda-
tions in mid-October to both parties. 
The dispute, therefore, is hardly 
resolved. Subsequent negotiations 
will follow Schmertz's recommen-
dations. But if bargaining does not 
lead to a settlement within twenty-
one days, or if either side refuses to 
extend negotiations, then the Union 
has the option to strike again. This 
means that by late November Yale 
may be without its workers and their 
services, and students may be forced 
to march down to McDonald's for 
their evening meals. 

And another strike may well be 
imminent. Although both sides em-
phasize the undesireability of a walk-
out, they are also quick to point to 
the present strike trend at Yale, 
which, they say, constitutes a pat-
tern difficult to break. Whatever the 
outcome of the labor-management 
dispute, the University's future will 
undoubtedly be affected. 

The 1974 dispute reflects the in-
creasingly polarized relations be-
tween the Union andY ale manage-
ment. This trend, dating from the 
mid-1960's, is suggested in a number 
of indicators. Before 1968, Local35 
had only struck once in its previous 
twenty-six years. Three consecutive 
strikes have followed. Also, accord-
ing to Leonard Marcus, Director of 
Employee Relations at Yale, Union 
members submitted very few formal 
written grievances for alleged man· 
agement contract violations before 
1967. Since then, the number of such 
grievances has steadily increased. 
Marcus suggests this is due to more 
aggressive supervision and better 
trained union stewards. 

Before 1966, the Union generally 
acquiesced to the offers of manage-
ment. According to Union leaders, 
Local 35 enjoyed a friendly rapport 
with Yale's former Personnel Direc-
tor, George Griswold. Acquiescence 
has now been transformed into bitter 
mistrust. The Union leadership sus· 
pects Yale management of trying to 
break the union and negate its effec· 
tiveness. 

On the other hand, representatives 
of management regard certain ac-
tions of Union leadership as amateur· 
ish. 

Several factors have caused this 
polarization in union-management 
relations. Inflation, for example, 
hurts Yale's ability to satisfy Union 
demands for higher wages. For the 
worker, inflation erodes compensa· 
tion increases negotiated in the past. 
A change of Yale's management 
team (and approach) in the mid-
sixties led to a more militant union-
and this made it more difficult for 
the two parties to get along. In the 
1940's, the Union was little more 
than a mechanism through which the 
University could impose contracts. 
This set-up generally continued in the 
50's & 60's. Although the wage levels 
were considerably below others in 
the New Haven labor market, the 
Union nevertheless acceded to the 
University's contract offers. Most 
employees worked a six day week in 
order to take home a moderate sal-
ary. 

Then, in 1966, Yale established a 
~\ 



**The 1974 Yale Labor Dispute**
**Author: Peter Kaufmann**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The New Journal I October 1,1974 I 7 
new Department of Personnel to co-
ordinate personnel functions and 
introduce modem management pro-
grams. Leonard Marcus, a labor re-
lations professional who worked for 
the Inland Steel Company, was offer-
ed the job of modernizing Yale's 
personnel programs. John Ember-
sits, a former Yale footbal captain 
and also a veteran of Inland Steel, 
became the University's Director of 
Business Operations. Together, they 
introduced a new management con-
cept to increase efficiency and insti-
tute reforms--"professionalizing" 
Yale's style as an employer. Imme-
diately, Marcus asked the Yale Cor-
poration to approve pay rates com-
petitive with the New Haven labor 
market and a reduction in work hours 
as well. This was done to attract and 
keep competent employees who 
would improve the quality of Yale's 
work force and decrease the costly 
need for sub-contracting. Other 
changes were also made. Through 
negotiations all jobs were divided 
into seventeen labor grades with pre-
scribed bidding procedures for job 
changes. Management cracked down 
on alleged sick leave abuses. Promo-
tions became based on ability as well 
as seniority. Improved job security 
provisions were also negotiated. 

With the advent of new manage-
ment at Yale, the union membership 
perceived that they had an oppor-
tunity to gain long-needed improve-
ments in wages and working con-
ditions--but that they would have to 
take a tougher stand to get them. In 
1968, caught between craftsmen 
dissatisfied with wages and unskilled 
workers who wanted to keep up with 
their skilled fellow-workers, the un-
aggressive Union leadership reluc-
tantly called a strike. 

But the Union was not yet strong. 
During the 1968 strike, Vincent Sira-
bella, then head ofLocal217F and 
Director of the New Haven Central 
Labor Council, acted as a mediator. 
and saw the union settle for what he 
considered a "sweet-heart" contract. In 1969, the rank and file asked Sira-
bella to become full-time business 
agent of Local35. 

Believing that the working man, 
trapped in a class system, could only 
improve his condition through the 
labor movement, Sirabella was deter-
mined to build a strong union. 
Strength, he felt, would both counter 
the formidability of management 
and force Yale to fulfill his vision of 
the university's social responsibility 
to New Haven. 1971 marked a significant step for-
ward for Sirabella and the Union. 
When the issue of a possible bursary 
student threat to Union jobs arose, 
Sirabella led a strike. The Union won 
important contract improvements in-
cluding guaranteed limitations on 
student employment and significant 
wage increases for the unskilled 
workers deprived in the 1968 settle-
ment. But more important, the strike 
effected an unprecedented degree of 
Union solidarity over the job secur-
ity issue. Union strength continued 
to increase; by 1974 Local 35 was 
able to confront management direct-
ly over major financial issues while 
uniformly resisting its efforts to per-
suade workers not to support the 
strike. 

Another factor that has led to 
polarized labor-management rela-
tions is the clash of the personal 
styles of the two leaders. The 
"professional" Marcus, pedigreed by his 
long association with Yale, and the "char-
ismatic" Sirabella, dedicated to com-
batting the establishment, do not, to 
put it mildly, get along. Marcus 
employs formal argument, formu-
lated procedure, and tough bargain-
ing table techniques; Sirabella tries 
to use the anti-Yale emotions of New 
Havenites, and the political forces at 
Yale (students, faculty, Administra-
tion, and white-collar workers) to 
exert pressure against the Univer-
sity. Marcus is irritated by Sira-
bella's flamboyant politicking; Sira-
bella sees Marcus as an insensitive 
manager who suffers from a desire 
for overkill. Sirabella also regards 
Marcus's professional techniques as 
attempts at clever manipulation and 
deception. 

This clash in personal style may 
hinder progress at the bargaining 
table where the two square off. In 
1974, what Marcus regarded as pro-
fessional bargaining techniques Sira-
bella viewed as calculated efforts to 
impose a contract on the Union. 
From Sirabella's vantage point, 
Marcus tried to maximize his posi-
tion by forcing the union to consider 
the University's proposals before 
even beginning discussion of the 
Union's demands. Marcus maintains 
that both sides had "equal time" at 
the bargaining table. 

These differences in fundamental 
perspective often lead to complicated 
communications. Sensitive to pos-
sible union-breaking tactics, the 
Union's negotiating team thought 
Yale tried to dictate a contract that 
would not only have negated some 
provisions in the 1971 contract, but 
would also have pitted incumbent 
workers against new employees. At 
the twelfth hour, Yale offered to re-
allocate the fixed sum in its overall 
proposal-an offer regarded by the 
Union's negotiating committee as an 
attempt to "buy them off" at the 
expense of the rank and file. 

From labor's position, strikes de-
mand a significant sacrifice by the 
low-paid worker, particularly the un-
skilled ones who cannot easily find 
alternative employment. For Yale, 
strikes cause disruptions in the work 
of the university and tie up resources 
for long periods to resolve the dis-
pute and mitigate its effects. Strikes 
also lead to bad relations between 
Yale and its workers, and Yale and 
the community. 

Representatives of the University 
suggest that a formula for automat-
ically submitting labor disputes to 
compulsory arbitration might be 
necessary in the future. Binding arbi-
tration presents certain problems. 
For one, it might make labor rela-
tions at Yale more formal, already a 
primary cause of their polarization. 
And such a formula might confront 
Yale with legal problems which 
would result from having an outside 
party determine how Yale is to use 
its funds. 

Sirabella insists that the Univer-
sity first communicate its acceptance 
and respect for a strong union before 
a working relationship can be estab-
lished between the two parties. He 
does not respond positively to com-
pulsory arbitration, perhaps fearing 
the union may lose its right to strike. 

To alleviate tensions, one observer 
in the 1974 negotiations suggested 
that Yale make a thorough publica-
tion of its finances. This would en-
able the Union to make demands 
with a definite sense of Yale's capac-
ity to pay, while also reassuring the 
workers that Yale has an important 
place for them on its list of priorities. 

More important than the state of 
union-management relations in the 
1974 dispute are the hard financial 
issues involved. The strike reveals a 
classic confrontation between an 
employer trying to maintain the 
status quo in the face of rising costs 
and dwindling assets (i.e. by preserv-
ing priorities and a balanced budget), 
and a union militantly striving to 
improve the economic position of its 
members in the face of overwhelming 
inflation. Of the thirteen unresolved 
issues, six are purely financial in 
nature. Three of these have proved 
the most troublesome. One involves 
the University's wage rates. Anoth-
er, the cost of living adjustment for-
mula (which is designed to protect 
wages against the effects of infla-
tion). The third deals with the degree 
and distribution of the University's 
payment of employee health insur-
ance. 

According to the University's fig-
ures, the union's proposals would 
increase Yale's costs by $10.5 million 
over the next three years, while 
Yale's offer would necessitate an 
increase of $5.2 million. The gap re-
flects the different priorities estab-
lished by each party in determining 
its position. 

The University asserts that in 
the current period of inflation, 
Yale can only pay its non-academic 
employees a competitive wage equiv-
alent to the going rate in the New 
Haven labor market and the private 
university industry. According to 
Yale authorities, a more generous 
offer would force the University to 
compromise its educational priorities 
by either short-changing the academ-
ic budget or dipping into the endow-
ment fund, an important source of 
security and income. They maintain 
that Yale, as a charitable corporation 
restricted by charter provisions to 
purposes of scholarship, can only 
justify non-academic payrolls as 
they contribute to the academic en-
terprise. 

Despite its distinction between 
academic and non-academic payrolls, 
Yale maintains that it does not em-
ploy the competitive market stan-
dard to discriminate against its blue 
collar workers. The same standard 
applies to faculty and administration 
salaries, tuition Levels, and scholar-
ships. But University officials at the 
same time point out that its academ-
ic programs have suffered because of 
finances, and that faculty and stu-
dents must come first in an economic 
pinch. To further indicate its lack of 
discrimination against the workers, 
the University contends that while 
faculty salaries have lagged behind 
inflation, the blue-collar workers 
have stayed ahead of cost of living 
increases. 

But the Union adheres to a differ-
ent set of priorities--it wants a "social 
wage." The Union insists that Yale 
meet the needs of its workers and 
lead the labor market in both wages 
and fringe benefits. Union leaders 
believe that as a well-endowed insti-
tution, exempt from taxation, and 
remarkably successful in balancing 
its budget during inflationary times, 
Yale could pay the workers more if it 
so chose. Union leaders say that Yale 
not only has the capacity to pay 
more, but that it should do so. They 
cite Yale as New Haven's largest and 
wealthiest employer. As such, Yale 
should fulfill its social responsibility 
to the city by paying its workers 
what they consider a decent wage. 

Sirabella feels that the University is 
The New Journal/ October 1, 1974 /8 
hypocritical in not living up to its 
liberal rhetoric. The Union leader-
ship thinks Yale's claim that it can-
not pay more indicates a lack of con-
cern for its workers. 

Using the social standard to deter-
mine wages would help the low-paid 
worker hit hardest by inflation. It 
would enable Yale to practice its 
professed humanitarian concerns by 
aiding its own workers. Finally, it 
would render irrelevant the Univer-
sity's distinction between academic 
and non-academic remuneration, 
while also indicating Yale's recog-
nition that the workers--as contrib-
utors to the Yale community--have a 
right to fulfill their basic needs. 

The University's argument that a 
social wage would be difficult to 
quantify does not provide sufficient 
grounds for rejecting the concept. 
The social standard could be ascer-
tained by answering a few basic 
questions. For instance, what items 
constitute the worker's basic needs? 
Should family size or the compos-
ition of the family be considered? 
Should considered income derive 
only from earnings from one employ-
er or from all financial sources? 
Should computed income include 
both fringe benefits and incentive 
pay? Should wage increases be re-
lated to jobs performed or should 
they vary with the number of depen-
dents of individual employees? Des-
pite their perplexing nature, these 
questions invite response. 

But the issue of the social stan-
dard runs up against both cold fi-
nances and Yale's own philosophy. 
According to Yale, the University 
has been operating at an overall defi-
cit despite austerity measures that 
have reduced faculty positions by 
541 over the past three years. Yale 
maintains that it simply does not 
have the immediate sources of in-
come to pay the union's social stan-
dard. 

A principle source of Yale's in-
come, the endowment, has become 
significantly devalued due to the 
economic situation, and an increase 
in dividends from it is nowhere in 
sight. Stanley Flink, Yale's Director 
of Public Information, points out 
that Yale cannot sell portions of the 
endowment to pay its workers be-
cause the use of its funds is restricted 
by law to educational purposes. As 
for private gifts and government 
grants, these are given for specific 
purposes and cannot be used directly 
for workers' benefits. 

Furthermore, according to Yale, 
tuition (another major source of in-
come) is already the highest in the 
country. It would not be practical 
to impose an additional burden on 
students and parents already suffer-
ing from inflation-a burden that 
might prevent some candidates from 
entering the University. Yale claims 
that disadvantaged students have as 
much right to financial assistance as 
the workers have to higher wages. 

As Yale sees it, then, the payment 
of a social wage to its workers might 
involve a grim choice between cut-
ting back its academic budget and 
decreasing its services by reducing 
the number of workers. 

Yale's payment of what it consid-
ers to be a competitive wage would 
enable it to avoid this agonizing 
question and perhaps a more troub-
ling underlying one: should it re-
orient its financial priorities, or sacri-
fice its workers? In other words, 
should it continue to be an academic 
institution that places quality schol-
arship and formal education first, or 
should it become a more socially 
oriented employer? 

The future of labor-management 
relations at Yale may hinge on the 
answer to this question, and may 
well involve a new or at least clearer 
definition of the University's goals. 0


**Finding the Fluid Middle**
**Author: Carla Solomon and Stephen Sternbach**
**Page number(s): 9**

Carla Solomon, a senior English 
major in Branford College, has writ-
ten for Change magazine. 
Stephen Sternbach is co-director of 
Student-to-Student Counseling. 

Finding the Fluid Middle 
by Carla Solomon and Stephen Sternbach 
Student-to-Student Counseling. It's 
a term some of us have heard for four 
years now, and this fall it has come 
again-in the crop of yellow posters 
and on the mimeographed sheets in 
the registration packets. And again 
it has succeeded less in attracting 
counselees than in raising a cloud of 
questions. Who is behind the ser-
vice? How did they get there? What 
can they do? 

After four years of Student-to-
Student Counseling's existence the 
time has come to face other ques-
tions that hinge on a simple fact: 
while subscription to the service 
increases each year, sse has never 
really been popular. What is more, 
while students on campus gener-
ally feel there is a need for such a 
service, several counselors feel that 
sse will fold if it fails to take firm 
roots this year. 

Five nights a week a rotating, 
male-female pair counsels any stu-
dent who chooses to walk through 
the doors of the Yale Health Ser-
vice. A night seldom brings more 
than one visit, and often no one 
comes. 

One reason for the service's lack 
of popularity is also one of its 
virtues--confidentiality. For just as 
counselors never discuss the cases, 
counselees rarely talk about the 
service. But last year only about 
thirty students used sse, and this 
statistic clearly points to other fac-
tors that may say something about 
life at Yale: mistrust of a service 
that is run by other Yale students 
and the fear of admitting weakness 
and vulnerability to anyone. At 
least these are the concerns of 
those students and advisors in-
volved with sse--concerns that in 
this crucial year of its short history 
deserve a closer look. 

Begun in the fall of 1971 as an 
outgrowth of the human sexuality 
course given by Dr. and Mrs. 
Philip Sarrel, SSC viewed itself as 
a sexual information and counsel-
ing service. But its scope soon 
broadened. "We soon realized that 
we were talking about more than 
an information service,'' says Caro-
lyn Grillo, one of the founders. "We 
realized that it was turning into a 
sexual and social counseling organ-
ization." 

It has maintained that dual pur-
pose over the last three years. sse 
provides straightforward sexual in-
formation about contraception, 
VD, abortion and related problems. 
And it attempts, by offering coun-
selors who have had experiences 
similar to the counselees, to allow 
the student to get a better perspec-
tive on the social tensions that the 
Yale environment creates. sse 
seems to cast itself in the role of the 
empathetic but detached room-
mate, while professing to be more 
than that. 

Why another counseling service? 
Yale has the oldest mental health 
program of any educational institu-
tion in the country, and it has 
always been used to full capacity. 
Some 900 students a year come for 
psychiatric care, and though the 
waiting list is long, each student is 
entitled to at least a semester of 
free help. Dr. Ernst Prelinger, a 
clinical psychologist at the health 
service and advisor to sse, thinks 
the overload is only natural for a 
group of students "highly selected 
on intellectual grounds but not on 
emotional ones." 

"Yale is a very hierarchical es-
tablishment," says Phil Zaeder, 
Associate Chaplain of Yale and 
another advisor to sse. "and often 
it offers fixed extremes that cannot 
be adapted to every situation. If a 
person has a problem here, he can 
either talk to friends or see a psy-
chiatrist, and despite the many 
people who use the psychiatric ser-
vices and the many who discuss 
problems with their friends, both 
alternatives are unacceptable to 
some.'' 

Zaeder sees a need for a service 
somewhere in between the two, a 
kind of middle ground that pro-
vides neither friends nor total 
strangers, neither professional an-
alysts nor unskilled listeners. This 
is Zaeder's conception of SSC's 
role, and he calls it the "fluid 
middle." 

"Sometimes it's very difficult 
to find the intimate stranger," he 
says. "We need trust more than a 
friend. We build up a trust and 
endow it to the intimate stranger, 
who becomes a relief from the trial 
motif which is very strong at Yale; 
sometimes it's good to go to a place 
where we're not on trial-not being 
judged. Often a friend cannot pro-
vide this and student counseling 
can." 

"Intimate stranger." "Fluid 
middle." The words themselves are 
vague, and the functions they 
name are just as hard to pin down, 
the boundaries just as loose. While 




**Title: Possessed**
**Author: Fyodor Dostoevsky (Adapted and directed by Andrzej Wajda)**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Dostoyevsky's 
The 
Alld the dev11s came 
out from the man. and 
entered mto the swine: 
and the herd rushed 
down the steep into the 
lake and were choked. 
Luke:8:33 

Adapted and directed by 
Andrzej Wajda 
, From the stage verston by .• 
Albert Camus 
Prev•ew October 3 
Amencan Prem•ere 
October 4·26 
For '"lormatton 
o r resarvahons 
p lease call 436-1600 
Four weeks only 
Possessed


**Title: The Student Counseling Service at Yale**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

the service tries to play more than 
the role of a friend, it is emphati-
cally not an attempt at in-depth 
psychiatry. When a problem seems 
to exceed the scope of social coun· 
seling--and this decision might 
vary with each counseling team·· 
the team refers the problem to one 
of the staff advisors. 

An example. A freshman woman 
from a strict Catholic family where 
any discussion of sex was taboo 
coines to Yale expecting an active 
social life. She finds that boys are 
not asking her out formally, and 
she doesn't know how to respond to 
"just talking" or going to the 
movies. She becomes more and more 
withdrawn and confides only in 
her roommate, who becomes in· 
creasingly demonstrative in her 
affections. 

She realizes she is being seduced. 
Confronted by a problem her pre-
vious experience has left her un-
prepared for, she is too embarassed 
to tell her freshman counselor and 
too frightened to see a psychiatrist. 

As an aJternative, she goes to SSC. 
The counselors decided that the 
problem was beyond their scope, and 
they told the girl. But it did not 
end there--the counselors convmced 
the girl that she should consult 
someone at the psychiatric service, 
and they helped her set up an 
appointment. They offered no solu· 
tion, but simply eased the trepida-
tion that the girl felt toward 
psychiatrists--the common fear of 
being classified as "sick," and the 
fear that records of treatment will 
jeopardize a career. sse could not 
res9lve the problem and did not 
presume to, it simply referred it to 
a better source. 

But there are problems that SSC 
does think it can handle--problems, 
for instance, of facing the aoademic 
and social pressures of Yale, of re-
lating to people, of making friends, 
of the male student lonely on week-
ends and depressed at mixers, of 
the female student unable to deal 
with a new influx of sexual pres· 
sure, or of the couple not able to 
assimilate changes in the relation-
ship. "We're not a psychiatric ser· 
vice," says Miriam Wimpfheimer, 
co-director of SSC this year. "But 
we're not just sounding boards-
either." And Steve Sternbach, the 
other co-director, puts it this way: 
"The counselors are trained and 
most of us have had experience in 
dealing with these kinds of prob· 
lems--and more severe ones··before. 
If we can't do better than the 
average person off the street, then 
we're useless. But we can do better. 
We know what 1ssues to raise, what 
questions to ask, what to point out, 
ho\\ to build up trust."' 

A fine line, however, exists be 
tween this degree of investigation 
and the irresponsible excesses of 
the " arm charr psychiatrist. •· In 
choosmg to walk this line, the 
counselors and advisors must be 
aware of its dangers. During the 
training sessions, in fact t.hey dis-
cuss the differences between coun· 
seling and psychotherapy. 

"I have no obJection to a coun· 
selor investigating a person's 
past," says Prelinger, "if that past 
has a bearing on the present prob-


--- Page 11 ---

lem. I am, however, against a coun-
selor who ettempts to explain a 
person's life." In the terminology 
of psychotherapeutic techniques, 
what the student counselor does 
would be described as "suppor-
tive." Prelinger described the sup-
portive role as "an effort to help 
somebody cope with acute stress 
by strengthening resources heal-
ready has." 

But beyond the label and beyond 
what the advisors think the service 
should be, it is the competence of 
the counselors themselves that de-
termines what sse actually can do. 
The initial training sessions for 
counselors involved role-playing 
exercises designed to elicit the 
sensitivity the counselor will need 
and to give him a sense of the ap-
proaches he can use. One student 
plays counselor and another plays 
counselee while a psychiatrist 
supervises and the other prospec-
tive counselors watch and criticize. 
The scenes serve as dry runs and 
are intended to help make the real 
dialogues as fruitful as possible. 
But even for those students chosen 
to counsel, that dialogue rarely 
comes. Their night at the health 
service is more often than not a 
night to get some reading done. 

Why the poor response? It may 
be that Yale has no use for the ser-
vice, that undergraduate life is too 
fragmented for students to feel 
that a stranger has anything to 
offer. It may be that Yale has no 
uniting force greater than its aca-
demic pressure. Indeed, the library 
is the closest Yale comes to offering 
a social center for undergraduates, 
and it is perhaps symbolic that 
when sse thought of changing 
locations, one of the few places it 
seriously considered was the Cross 
Campus Library. 

Most minority groups on cam-
pus have a stronger sense of com-
munity than the students at large, 
and it is to these groups that 
minority students usually look for 
guidance. Chris Waterman, one of 
the directors of sse last year, 
cannot remember ever having 
counseled a black or Chicano. As 
Phil Zaeder puts it, " If you're 
given a name, you want to feel com-
fortable with others of the same 
name.'' 

According to Zaeder, the causes 
for the difficulties of sse go deeper 
than this. He believes that the 
"achievement ethic"-the tendency 
for students to define themselves 
by their achievements--is so strong 
here that students dislike admit-
ting failure to each other. Seeking 
help from a student counselor 
seems to imply incompetency or a 
kind of inferiority. The achieve-
ment orientation Zaeder mentions 
is a double-edged sword, at once 
causing anxiety and sealing off the 
way ~find relief. 

'' 'Yalies are threatened by the prospect of 
another student who assumes greater 
knowledge.' '' 

"Yalies are threatened by the 
prospect of another student who 
assumes greater knowledge,'' says 
Reb McMichael, a former counsel-
or, "and they fear admitting that 
another student, and not a profes-
sional, could handle a problem 
better than he or a friend could. For 
a Y alie to go to a student-run ser-
vice means that he needs it--and 
it's hard for a Yalie to admit that 
he needs anything." 

What the counselors hope, a.nd 
what Zaeder predicts, is that the 
achievement ethic will be super-
ceded by a more basic human 
need-the need to express oneself. 
" We have a need to be more than 
episodic," Zaeder says. "We have 
to share with someone our whole 
story, to be creative and have 
people listen. We want a chance to 
account for where we have come 
from, what we're doing, and where 
we're going." 

Zaeder questions the traditional 
Freudian notion that intellectual 
insight and a detached analyst pro-
vide the only route to a more posi-
tive emotional state. He thinks 
that sse can work and that it can 
fill a void left by the decline of 
religious counseling. And like 
everyone involved with the service, 
he predicts success. 

"Student counseling is the sort 
of thing you have to build a trust 
in," says Dr. Robert Arnstein, 
head of the mental hygiene depart-
ment at the health service and 
advisor to SSC. " I spent nearly a 
year and a half trying to encourage 
people to continue sse and we're 
just beginning to witness there-
sults of hard work at building up 
an organization. We certainly did 
better last year than the year be-
fore." 

Whether this year will be the 
pivotal year of the group's success 
or the year of its death has yet to 
be seen. Two things are certain. 
First, if SSC takes hold, so will the 
idea that personal counseling does 
not require emotional "sickness." 
And second, if the service dis-
appears, the need for it will not. 0


**Title: Wayward Journey**
**Author: Alan Strasser**
**Page number(s): 12**

Go East, Young Man 
The Early Years 
The Autobiography of 
William 0. Douglas 
Random House, New York 1974. $10 

This book is mistitled. That, un-
fortunately, is the least of its short-
comings. Douglas's autobiography 
seems to have sprung fully-typeset 
from his brow, without the interven-
ing aid of an editor or a second draft. 
The book is unfocused and super-
ficial; the writing is seldom inspired, 
usually insipid, and occasionally 
embarassing. A great man has pro-
duced a greatly disappointing book. 

In all fairness, William Orville 
Douglas did go East as a Young 
Man; he also went West. He first 
travelled West: three year old Bill 
moved from his Minnesota birth-
place to a Yakima, Washington 
home. In his early twenties, he jour-
neyed east to Columbia Law School. 
After graduation, however, here-
turned to practice law in Yakima. 
Since then, Douglas has alternated 
between W ashingtons, always con-
sidering "my own state of Washing-
ton to be my home," while writing 
treatises, lectures and judicial de-
cisions in the nation's capital. 

Douglas probably chose the title of 
his autobiography to emphasize the 
enormity of his eastward journey, 
and to reveal that fame and fortune 
have visited him only because he did 
go east as a young man. Douglas 
guesses that had he not left his child-
hood home, he might have by now 
risen to become principal of Yakima 
High. Yet he never tells us why he 
left. He asks rhetorically what could 
have made him, an unworldly coun-
try boy, leave secure Yakima f~r the 
uncertain world of New York C1ty 
and Columbia Law School. But he 
never stops to answer the question, 
never pauses long enough in the 
headlong description of his life to ex-
plain thE' first crucial choice he made. 

Douglas seldom pauses to probe 
any part of his life very deeply. A 
more accurate title for the book 
would be People, Places, and Ideas I 
Have Met: A Sprint Through His-
tory with William 0. Douglas. He 
herds a bewilderingly large cast of 
characters through his book. The 
reader barely has time to become 
acquainted with any of them, for 
another waits impatiently in the next 
paragraph. Places pass by more 
slowly than faces, but Douglas cir-
cumnavigates the world several 
times before the book is finished. He 
also introduces a number of his 
social, political, and judicial ideas, 
but the handshake has barely passed 
before he travels elsewhere to meet a 
new thought. 

Douglas admits that he has been 
extraordinarily busy throughout his 
life. In college, he studied and 
worked almost full-time (his mother 
counted on him, as the eldest son, to 
support the fatherless family). As a 
law student, he tutored, prepared 
materials for a correspondence 
course in law, and even managed to 
learn some law himself, although 
most of the last activity occurred, as 
he confides, "on the run." 

Douglas's autobiography is no less 
rapid. One cannot avoid thinking 
that he wrote the book "on the run" 
to convey the impression that his life 
was indeed active. It is as though he 
has accumulated anecdotes for 75 
years, and now spews them forth in a , 
great personal flood. Story follows 
story, case follows case, and person 
follows person, without respite, and 
often without apparent connection. 
People appear simply because he 
knew them, or because they were 
famous. In discussing the personal-
ities of the New Deal, Douglas says 
"Frances Perkins, Secretary of 
Labor from 1933 to 1945. should also 
be included." He does not include her 
because he knew her well (he devotes 
a scant four paragraphs to her) or 
because she played an important 
part in his life (he mentions her only 
two more times in the book). Rather, 
he felt she "should be" included be-
cause he was discussing New Deal-
ers. Perhaps Douglas wanted to ful-
fill some self-appointed role as New 
Deal chronicler. Others, however, 
have written about that period with 
sharper insight, greater breadth, and 
clearer vision. 

Unappointed but nonetheless 
undaunted, Douglas proliferates 
facts, faces, and thoughts. He re-
peats most of the important external 
events of his life: his education, his 
various jobs, his friends, and the out-
lines of his social philosophy--but he 
shows nothing of his feelings. He 
describes his first marriage in one 
paragraph, casually inserted be-
tween a summary of his earnings 
from tutoring and a short description 
of his election to the Columbia Law 
Review. 

At one point in the book, Douglas 
argues that "contests in the law 
should never be at the emotional, but 
only at the intellectual, level." Does 
Douglas consider The Early Years to 
be a legal brief in which he argues 
the facts of his life? He certainly does 
fill his book with facts. His may be 
the only autobiography which fre-
quently footnotes the Harvard Law 
Review and US Court Reporter. 

Alan Strasser, former Managing 
EditorofThe New Journal, is now 
chasing papers at Harvard Law 
SchooL



**A Review of Douglas's Autobiography**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
But Douglas isn't really arguing a 
case. Though he presents the facts of 
the matter, he fails to direct them 
toward a final argument, or to draw 
any conclusions. He provides no in-
sight into himself, no glimpses of the 
inner principles by which he directs 
his life. His brief rambles, digresses, 
and moralizes--but it never con· 
eludes. 


The book shows, though, that 
Douglas has had ample opportunity 
for reflection. He frequently takes 
long, solitary walks in the woods. He 
prefaces his work by announcing 
that he has written the book in the 
spare time of the last 10 or 12 years. 
He must think deeply on the Court. 
He says, "writing an autobiography 
is, in a sense, giving a detailed ac· 
count of the slow, step-by-step edu· 
cation of the author." But where 
does he reveal the lessons? Clearly he 
is a deliberative man; just as clearly, 
he has omitted almost all reflection, 
all intellectualizing from his auto-
biography. 


Perhaps this is most disturbing: 
one expects Douglas to be a judge, 
but he comes off as merely an un· 
focused lawyer. One hopes for wis· 
dom, but Douglas offers only loose 
strings of anecdotes. 


Douglas's writing style is equally 
disturbing. His prose is flat and con· 
ventional, legal language at its dull-
est. He mars his narrative with 
homiletic conclusions, superficial 
remarks, and unimportant digres· 
sions. He allows himself gratuitous 
attacks on various "bad guys": John 
Foster Dulles, The Dodge Motor 
Corporation, and assorted Wall 
Street Lawyers. He seems to con· 
struct chapters by choosing titles 
and then multiplying anecdotes until 
he has filled up the "right" number 
of pages. Sometimes the anecdotes 
don't seem to follow any particular 
pattern: the idea occurs that one 
could shuffle the pages without 
knowing the difference. As a result, 
The Early Years is often painfully 
boring. 


Other times it is merely puzzling. 
Fly ELI! 


Douglas takes obvious delight in 
mocking "the Establishment." Yet 
Douglas has been a Supreme Court 
Justice for 35 years, was once a 
Securities and Exchange Commis· 
sion bureaucrat, and taught law at 
Yale. He confides that at one time he 
even had some support for a try at 
the Presidency. It is not easy to see 
how Douglas distinguishes himself 
from "the Establishment." 


One must also wonder how often 
Douglas suspends--or softens--his 
critical scrutiny when he is judging 
himself. How has he selected the 
material he presents? Has he left out 
those events or thoughts which con· 
flict with the philosophy he now 
holds? To what extent has his pres-
ent self-understanding shaped his 
interpretation of past events? Per-
haps, as Douglas suggests in a 
slightly different context, "my wish 
dictates my conclusion." Does Doug-
las project the present backwards 
onto the past? 


Questions of Douglas's narrative 
reliability aside, how can he--after an 
energetic, even important, life--
produce such a disappointing auto· 
biography? The Early Years is frus· 
trating because I find Douglas's 
public philosophy so attractive but 
see no deeper justification for his 
thoughts in his autobiography. In· 
stead, he distracts with the window 
dressing of anecdotes. He teases 
with glimpses of his feelings, but 
never reveals much more than the 
facade. 


Go East, Young Man is most frus· 
trating because it represents a squan-
dered opportunity. Douglas has con· 
sistently championed the interests 
and rights of the individual in a 
society increasingly threatened by 
the impersonality of massiveness. If 
only Douglas had focused on his own 
individuality, instead of the social 
environment in which he lived; if 
only his autobiography were as prob· 
ing as his judicial decisions. 


But better that he be a good judge 
and not a good writer than vice 
versa.O


**Get That Building Off Our Back**
**Author: Daniel Denton**
**Page number(s): 15**

(continued from page 2) 
, 
ance seemed strange, especially at an 
institute of higher learning. My pur-
pose was not to find out why but to 
write an objective opinion of what 
the hell was going on in there.'' 


Sawyer decided that the earlier 
studies were useless, that they had 
measured the asbestos in quiet rooms 
and failed to appreciate just how 
people were actually exposed to it--in 
dusting, for example, where the 
worker breathes no direct fallout but 
stirs up tremendous concentrations 
of accumulated asbestos. Monitoring 
the workers as well as the rooms was 
a new idea, and Sawyer's superiors 
told him to "cease and desist." 


Sawyer went ahead with his study, 
nevertheless, and as the data ac-
cumulated, his colleagues started 
y changing their minds. "One of them 
put his hand to his head and said, 
'Oh my God, Bob, you're right!'" 


The report, in its own words, "con· 
tains few revelations." It does, how-
ever, show that the familiar prob-
lems can be cured only with a major 
commitment because they are inter-
related, and it puts those problems in 
the language of the law. It lists the 
violations--the poor water, the bird 
cadavers and animal life in the 
screenless building, the low temper-
atures, and the low railings and 
walls. The report concludes: "Per-
haps a reaffirmation of safety policy 
and responsibility is needed.'' 


I t appears that reaffirmation has 
begun. "Everything is clicking into 
place like dominoes now," says 
Sawyer, who continues to monitor 
the building and its renovation. He 
t carries with him electronic air sam-
plers, respirators and a camera, and 
he insists that he loves the building. 


For Kaufmann, "Things are going 
more smoothly now than ever before, 
our bitterness is paying off. The Uni· 
versity is worried." 


It is sad that the move has taken 
so long, that the private worries of 
some users of the building could end 
only when the public worries of the 
University began. And it could have 
taken longer. M. J. Costello, Busi-
ness Manager of the Schools of Art 
and Architecture and a member of 
the ad hoc committee that recom-
mended the action, "has mixed 
emotions about the decision." 


It will cause so many disrup-
tions," he says. "The University 
should have waited until next sum-
mer--they should have taught, no, 
they should have forced the people to 
live with the building another year. 
It's been 11 years, you know, and no 
one has died from it." 


No one knows what the building 
t. will look like when the library re-
turns there next summer. Many be-
_. 
lieve that the problems are so buiit 
into its contours that they will never 
be rooted out. Memory of the danger 
and the frustration will surely re· 
main. 


Nevertheless, a cautious optimism 
prevails. In the library it is a feeling 
that things can only get better. At 
the Health Services it is confidence 
that the tide has turned, that the 
University now has what Sawyer 
calls "a let's fix it frame of mind." 


And in John Embersits's office it is 
the tired hope that a year's hard 
work can "finally get that building 
off our back.'' 
Daniel Denton 
Daniel Denton worked in the Art 
Library for one year. 


**The Joy of Shrinking**
**Author: Emily Leamon**

In the climactic scene of The Loved 
One by Evelyn Waugh, the dis-
traught employee of a garish fun- · 
eral home finds that injecting her· · 
self with embalming fluid is.the 
best way of dealing with her con-
2 
fusion. Upon entering the well-
. 
manicured estate that The Read· 
er's Digest magazine calls home, I 
felt the same way. 


D 
I 
G 
E 
s 
T 


Those who have read Waugh's 
novel will remember that music 
was cbntinuously piped throughout 
the grounds; so too at the eighty-
acre site in Pleasantville, New 
York1 where DeWitt and Lila Wal-
lace, the founders of Reader's 
Digest, have nestled the home of 
the world's largest selling maga-
zine. An oozing soporific that can 
best be described as religious 
Muzak emanates from the stra-
tegically placed " carillon::.," which 
sel the mood of the little corporate 
village. 


·'Ptctures from Pleasantvill~. " 
simpers a leaflet the tour ll"Uirle 
hands me The leaflet offer 'an 
armchair tour" of the Digest head-
quarters, of the authentic Modig-
lianis, Gauguins, and Van Goghs 
with which Lila W allac~·who also 
selects the Americana cover paint-
ing for every issue-· has adorned the 
premises. But the insidious and 
mind-deadening philosophy lurk-
ing in "the hallways must be dis-
covered in person. 


The appearance of the Digest's 
employees is curiously outmoded. 
Somber business attire is the order 
i of the day, with most of the women 
affecting a look somewhere be-
tween Peck & Peck and J. C. Pen-
ney. And women there are, but the 
tour guide admits they will be 
found mainly in typmg pools and 
at copy desks. The guide insists, 
however, that this is changing, 
slowly changing. Helen Hector, a 
senior editor whose mere seniority 
seems to have catapulted her to her 
nebulously defined heights, admon-
ishes me, ''Don't listen to them at 
those other places like Ms. (a gri-
mace here) when they tell you that 
women can't get anywhere at mag-
azines You can work within the 
system, you know." 


The philosophy that has raised 
The Reader's Digest Association, 
Inc. from a shoestring outfit in 
Greenwich Village to the multi· 
million-dollar corporation of today 
seems to be; "Ye shall inherit the 
earth if ye can condense it. "Al-
though the gains have not been 
fully reaped, the seeds are surely 
sown, and a vice president of the 
company explains how the foreign 
language editions of the Digest 
help "spread the word." I ask him 
what The Word is. 


''The Protestant work ethic," he 
says. ·patriotism, the belief that 
there 1s a solu tlon to every problem 
and that people want to know 
what the solution is." The vice 
president speaks of the De Witts 
and their philanthropy, and the 
Digest and its wealth, but his pride 
is laced with caution--for he may 
say nothing about the company 
that has not been printed in press 
releases or the papers. He is the 
voice of the Digest and he speaks in 
verbal reprints. 


The vice president nas opinions 
about other magazines, though, 
and he offers them generously. He 
explains that Life need not have 
folded had it only stuck with " vis-
ceral journalism," and not gotten 
into that "high-level •cultural non-
sense." 


An associate editor named Ric 
Cox, clean cut and about thirty, is 
presented to our group as the 
vouthful voice of ThP Reader's 
Digest. I ask him what goes on at 
Digest editorial planning sessions 
and he tells me that there are none. 


He speaks longingly of the day 
when a superior position at the 
Digest will afford him editorial 
power. If the Protestant ethic is the 
editorial Word, then Cox appears 
to be a lamb ready for the sacrifice. 
He condenses books and bides his 
time. 


"I don't particularly like to 
read," says Cox. "You take any 
novel, any article, anything, and 
you'd be surprised how much just 
isn't. necessary, how much you 
could do without." He particularly 
dislikes long descriptions. "Style is 
fine, but people would rather know 
just what happens. When I cut a 
book I try to sift out the extra-
neous scenes, descriptions, charac-
ters. and find the thread of action. 
This is what people want." 


The fervor with which the W al-
lace's digesting mill has recycled 
novels and magazine articles into 
tidy packages of prose seems to 
have overflowed into other parts of 
their lives. The tour guide shows us 
two lithographs that have been r~ 
produced from a tapestry and cut 
down to what Mrs. Wallace consid-
ers a manageable size--condensed, 
as it were. The guide also points to 
a Hepplewhite desk which was pur-
chased because it can be folded up 
for trips, nice and neat. I point out 
the emerging theme to the tour 
guide who laughs and mutters 
under her breath, "They condense 
your wages here. too." 


It is perhaps too easy to wax 
vituperative when speaking of The 
Reader's Digest; its please-every-
one format invites criticism. If 
more people sneer at this magazine 
than any other, it is also true that 
more find unabashed pleasure in its 
pages. So be it. The Word con-
tinues to creep across the globe--
drawing the dollars back to Pleas-
antville. 


The tour is over soon. Through-
out the group's brief look at the 
editorial offices we have been asked 
several times to be silent, PEOPLE 
ARE WORKING. There is no hub-
bub of voices at The Reader's 
Digest, no violent exchange of 
ideas. All business runs with order-
ly decorum. 


They do not worry at The Read-
er's Digest that when today's 
youth become tomorrow's middl~ 
aged the magazine will lose its 
readership. They assert that as 
people grow older they begin to 
"come into the fold," and there is 
an undertone of smugness in the 
assertion. 


As the bus pulls away from the 
ivy-covered building that resem-
bl~s a college more than a publish-
ing house, the thought occurs that 
the high-spirited Pegasus they 
have chosen for their logo is a less 
than apt symbol. Perhaps a bottle 
of Geritol. 
Emily Leamon 
Emily Leamon graduated from 
Vassar College last May and worked 
as a summer intern at Redbook 
magazine.



**Title: PHOTO BUSINESS EDIT DESIGN**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16**

I 
PHOTO BUSINESS EDIT DESIGN 
THE YALE BANNER MEETING OF MINDS ·~ 
WEDNESDAY, 2 OCTOBER. 8 PM. WOOLSEY DOME. 
THE YEARBOOK, THE UT, THE OLD CAMPUS, THE GUIDE TO NEW HAVEN, AND MORE. 
