Publication date: March 3, 1989
Volume: 21
Issue number: 5

**MASTHEAD:**
- Publisher: Mary Chen
- Editor-in-Chief: Martha Brant
- Business Manager: Laura Smith
- Managing Editors: Skye Wilson, Kirk Semple
- Designer: Pamela Geismar
- Production Manager: David King
- Photography Editor: Heidi Schulman
- Accounts Manager: Jodi Lox
- Associate Editors: Cynthia Cameros, Ruth Conniff, Stefanie Syman
- Associate Designer: Stephen Hooper
- Associate Photography Editor: John Kim
- Circulation Manager: Lynn Festa
- Subscription Manager: Malaika Amon
- Staff: Andrea Assarat, Janet Chung, Ethan Cohen, Jennifer Fleissner, Jeanne Frantz, Lisa Gluskin, David Greenberg, Julie Hantman, Hank Hsu, Adrienne Lo, Jennifer Pitts, Motoko Rich, Margo Schlanger, Lisa Silverman, Jaeyong So, Florence William, Jamie Workman
- Members and Directors: Edward B. Bennett III, Constance Clement, Peter B. Cooper, Andy Court, Brooks Kelley, Michelle Press, Fred Strebeigh, Thomas Strong
- Friends: Anson M. Beard, Jr., Edward B. Bennett, Jr., Edward B. Bennett III, Blaire Bennett, Gerald Bruck, Jonathan M. Clark, Louise F. Cooper, James W. Cooper, Peter B. Cooper, Jerry and Rae Court, David Freeman, Geoffrey Fried, Sherwin Goldman, John Hersey, Brooks Kelley, Roger Kirwood, Andrew J. Kuzneski, Jr., Lewis E. Lehrman, E. Nobles Lowe, Peter Neill, Julie Peters, Fairfax C. Randall, Nicholas X. Rizopoulos, Arleen and Arthur Sager, Dick and Debbie Sears, Richard Shields, Thomas Strong, Elizabeth Tate, Alex and Betsy Torello, Allen and Sarah Wardwell, Peter Yeager, Daniel Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- Kicking Out the Habit - Megan Chambers
- Adjusted Focus - Ruth Conniff
- The Brewing Storm - Kirk Semple
- A Major Revision - Jason Wolff
- Pressed For Time - Stefanie Syman
- Mistaken Identity - Mario Garcia


**Title: Kicking Out the Habit**
**Author: Megan Chambers**
**Page number(s): 4**

Tenants Against Drugs Dammit!! has launched an aggressive grass-roots campaign to 
clean up six housing developments. Drug dealers remain in the public housing, but the 
group's remobilization of the New Haven police gives residents hope for drug-free homes.


**Title: Adjusted Focus**
**Author: Ruth Conniff**
**Page number(s): 6**

Concerned with late-night drunkenness and after-hours hanky panky, Yale once kept a 
close watch over its students. But recently, the University has begun to turn its attention 
outward, focusing an electric eye on the city's rising crime rates.


**Title: The Brewing Storm**
**Author: Kirk Semple**
**Page number(s): 8**

This summer, when a team of recent Yale graduates brews the first keg of New Haven 
beer in a decade, they'll be tapping into a rich local history and a nationwide beer-
brewing trend.


**Title: A Major Revision**
**Author: Jason Wolff**
**Page number(s): 18**

Complaining about their poor preparation and inadequate advising, many history majors 
give the senior essay program a poor grade. The History department blames overcrowding 
and has no plans to improve its performance.


**Title: Pressed For Time**
**Author: Stefanie Syman**
**Page number(s): 22**

In the subterranean passageways of Yale's residential colleges, the Honourable Company 
of College Printers, a group of dedicated undergraduates, defy modernization and 
maintain the craft of letterpress printing.


**Title: Mistaken Identity**
**Author: Mario Garcia**
**Page number(s): 28**

Visiting professor of History Mario Garcia argues that the term "Hispanic" was created 
by the media and the government to deny Latinos self-identity.

**Title: Kicking Out the Habit**
**Author: Megan Chambers**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Kicking Out the Habit 
Megan Chambers 
Two people arrested recently for 
purchasing drugs in a New Haven 
·public housing development received a 
blunt, one-page letter in the mail a few 
days later. The letter began: "Dear 
Arrestee, We got your name and 
address from the newspaper. We are a 
group of concerned tenants who live in 
public housing. We are 'Tenants 
Against Drugs Dammit! !' It means 
just that: we're totally against the 
selling of drugs in our neighborhood. 
You're making our job tough." 

This letter marks the most recent 
efforts of TADD!!, a group of tenant 
activists formed to fight drug dealing 
in six Housing Authority of New 
Haven (HANH) developments. Last 
June the Coalition for People, a non-
profit group that helps citizens address 
local problems, 
put 
together the 
T ADD!! initiative with the tenant 
councils of Eastview, Elm Haven, 
Farnum, Rockview, Waverly, and 
Quinnipiac T errace. Virginia Henry, 
a 
long-time 
tenant 
activist at 
Quinnipiac T errace and a custodian at 
Yale, agreed to chair this operation. 
TADD!! calls on tenants, HAN H , and 
the New Haven police to create safe, 
drug-free public housing. 

· .Only two months after its inception, 
T ADD!! saw its first results: new 
outdoor lighting, the eviction of some 
dealers, and a commitment from the 
New Haven Police Department 
(NHPD) for increased survillance. Since 
then, tenants have organized their own 
patrols to monitor and to report drug 
activity, and HANH has begun to 
clean up the vacant apartments where 
many dealers stash and sell their drugs. 
4 The New journal/March 3, 1989 
Most recently, TADD!! began tar-
geting the buyers by sending a letter to 
those arrested in the developments; it 
plans next to picket buyers' homes. 
Eventually TADD!! hopes to establish 
tenant committees to screen ·pro-
spective residents. 

Over the past ten years, the marked 
increase in gun possession and drug-
related crime in New Haven has hit 
HANH developments hard. Henry 
recalls Quinnipiac Terrace's attractive 
condition when she arrived in the mid-
Seventies. "When I moved in here, it 
"Those are some 
dangerous guys out 
there. That's part of 
why we're keeping 
people in the patrol a 
secret." 
was beautiful," she said. "It really was." 
The developmen"ts have rapidly 
deteriorated since then, as the drug 
crisis has mounten. Spraypainted 
entryways, scattered trash, and 
boarded-up windows now mar Quin-
nipiac Terrace. By last spring, Henry 
said, drugs were so ·prevalent that 
dealers were selling out in the open. 

The letter sent to buyers describes 
the threat drug dealing poses to 
tenants: "A drug deal went bad, shots 
are being fired at random and an 
innocent child is injured. There are 
more shots fired, a bullet shatters a 
window entering an apartment and 
misses an elderly lady by inches." 

Because of the ever-present danger, 
public transportation stopped servicing 
many of the developments, eliminating 
the only way for residents to get to 
school or to work. 

Feeling 
trapped, 
TADD!! 
representatives brought their anti-drug 
dealing plan before HANH, NHPD, 
and the state Housing Commission. As 
a result, Police Chief William Farrell 
promised to supply each development 
with three officers to conduct round-
the-clock surveillance over a two-week 
period. NHPD then extended its patrol 
to three weeks and added a fourth 
officer. The department also gave 
T ADD!! activists a special number to 
call if they saw any drug activity. 

Major Daniel Blackmon, head of 
NHPD Community Affairs Division 
and liason to T ADD!!, praises the 
tenants' efforts 
to improve their 
neighborhood. 
According 
to 
Blackmon, after two decades of citizens' 
closing their shutters on crime, 
T ADD!! is sending a message to the 
community to get involved. 

Getting involved in the New Haven 
drug crisis, however, has its dangers. 
Tenants in the Eastview TADD!! 
received several threats of retaliation from 
dealers last fall. Although no other 
tenant has since received an intimi-
dating notice, only Henry feels secure 
enough to act openly as a tenant 
patroller. "Those are some dangerous 
guys out there," Henry said. "That's 
part of why we're keeping people in the 
patrol 
secret." The undercover 
lookouts keep watch while taking 


--- Page 5 ---

children to the park or visiting a 
neighbor. 

The police have had a more visible 
role in the TADD!! program. Accord-
ing to Henry, police surveillance and 
TADD!!'s community efforts have led 
to a decrease in drug trafficking in 
Quinnipiac Terrace since June. Police 
officers have also been conducting 
sting 
operations 
since 
last 
March- posing as dealers in 27 loca-
tions arotJnd New Haven, including 
the six TADD!! developments. Last 
October undercover officers arrested 
102 buyers in a single day in the Hill 

But Blackmon points out that 
chasing dealers out of one area doesn't 
solve the larger drug problem. "What 
we're doing is basically moving them 
around. From the standpoint of a 
person in that neighborhood you've 
had some impact, but from our 
perspective it's like a treadmill," he 
said. With T ADD!! developments still 
on this treadmill, tenant activists have 
asked the police to return for a second 
period of round-the-clock enforce-
ment. 

Because T ADD!! members have 
succeeded in drawing attention to their 
needs, 
they could make a 
long-
term difference. Warren Gould, vice-
chairman of the Youth Services 
Bureau in New Haven, feels that 
T ADD!! 
offers the 
most 
viable 
response to the drug crisis. "Com-
munity organizing is the bottom line," 
Gould 
said. "If everyone in 
community .were able to stand up with 
the kind of courage that TADD!! did, 
we could truly begin to put a dent in 
this drug problem." Gould feels that 
other groups need to adopt T ADD! !'s 
grass-roots approach. He envisions a 
coalition of churches, 
politicians, 
community groups, labor organi-
zations, and businesses working to 
create a permanent solution. 

Blackmon agrees that TADD!! has 
taken the right approach. He readily 
admits that 
the dealers can 
be 
dangerous, but he knows that the 
police cannot solve the drug problem 
alone. "I think that in today's society 
it's dangerous to be a citizen. Citizens 
Virginia Henry 
won't stand for 
drugs on her 
doorstep. 
have to understand that they have to 
stop and take a stand," he said. 

TADD!! has met that challenge with 
dedication and ingenuity, and even 
some threats of its own. Its letter to 
buyers ends with this warning: 
"We're tired of suffering in violence, 
While you're at home in bed. 
Don't be afraid of the dealers, 
Beware of the tenants instead." 

• 
Megan Chambers 's a semor m Saybrook 
College. 
The New Journal/March 3, 1989 5 


**Title: Adjusted Focus**
**Author: Ruth Conniff**
**Page number(s): 6**

Adjusted Focus 
Ruth Conniff 
From his basement office in the Yale 
Co-op, Security Director Rob Abrams 
is watching. He can see everything that 
happens in the Co-op's three buildings 
on his six television screens. "We have 
sprinkler heads that are really closed· 
circuit cameras, one-way mirrors, and 
vents people can hide behind with 
binoculars," Abrams said. He demon-
strated 
the cameras' preCisiOn, 
zooming in on a cashier's watch to read 
the time. By switching from camera to 
camera on his monitors, Abrams can 
follow 
customer throughout the 
store. If he sees something suspicious, 
he alerts a Co-op security guard by 
radio. Recently he saw a well-dressed 
woman wander in and bend over near 
a rack of gloves. "Within three seconds 
the whole rack- about $400-worth-
was gone," Abrams said. Using an 
electronic system, the Co-op retrieves 
$800 in merchandise each month. "I 
just can't understand why closed-
circuit isn't here at Yale." 

Modern security devices are slowly 
making their way into Yale University. 
"Security companies have 
been 
peppering us with offers," said 
Assistant Secretary Radley Daly. "It's 
quite clear that electronic security 
systems are here and now." Installing 
such a system in a community of over 
15,000 presents logistical problems. 

But electronic security raises even 
more 
difficult questions for 
an 
institution concerned 
not 
with 
merchandise, but with people. 

The prospect of closed-circuit 
cameras at every residential college 
gate poses a threat to students' privacy. 
"If we have a record of who is entering 
which building at any given time, 
whose business is that?" Daly asked. 

High-tech security apparatuses evoke 
images of 1984 and represent the 
intrusion of impersonal technology 
into private life. 

This invasion would be particularly 
anomalous given Yale's history. "One 
Officer James Donnelley founded the Yale Police force in 1894 and 
prevented undergraduates from burning down the campus. 
6 The New Journal/March 3, 1989 
of the best things about security here 
was that there was always a warm 
relationship between the campus cops 
and the students," said Yale Professor 
of Architecture Vincent Scully OE 
'40). Up until 1972 a civilian guard sat 
· in the office just inside the main gate of 
each 
residential college. Guards 
checked to make sure that students 
didn't bring their girlfriends into the 
colleges after hours. "In a funny way, 
security was better then than it is now," 
Scully said. "There was always a guard 
at the college gate and you spoke with 
him as you came in." 

Traditionally, civilian guards and 
the Yale Police were concerned with 
protecting Yale students from 
themselves, and New Haven from 
Yale students. In 1894, two New 
Haven police officets crossed the 
Green to establish the Yale Police 
force. Their main job was to prevent 
students from setting fire to the rubble 
of Old Brick Row, which had been 
torn down to make room for Old 
Campus. 

Until 1975, the Yale Police did not 
wear uniforms. Most wore fedora hats 
~ and trench coats. "The big joke back 
~ then was the man in the trench coat," 
~ said Yale Police Commander George 
~ Denison. "The kids all knew who we 
: were, even though we weren't in 
i uniform. We stood out like a sore 
~ thumb." Denison joined the Yale 
~ Police force in 1958. "When I first 
~ came, our biggest job was keeping 
~ students from committing acts of 
i:l vandalism in the colleges and on the 
~ city streets," he said. "We used to pick 
~ up kids who were drunk and take them 
~ back to their rooms." As the Uni· 
~ versity's political climate changed over 
~ the next 30 years, so did the role of the 
:- Yale Police. Conflicts like the anti· 
~ Vietnam protests and the recent anti-
8 apartheid demonstrations created a 
~ division between students and police. 

f 
Changes in urban conditions have 
done even more to alter the structure 
of security at Yale. Ezra Stiles and 



**Title: High-tech security apparatuses evoke images of 1984.**
**Author: Rldh Conniff**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
High-tech security 
apparatuses evoke 
images of 1984. 
Morse colleges were designed without 
gates by Architect Eero Saarinen in 
1959. Saarinen wanted members of the 
surrounding community to come in 
and mix freely with the students on 
campus. The architect died before the 
colleges were built, however, and the 
University insisted on installing gates. 
Saarinen's widow allowed the gates to 
be built but stipulated that they could 
never be locked. But over the past 20 
years, crime in New Haven has 
increased dramatically. In the last five 
years alone aggravated assaults have 
risen from 632 incidents to 1,474. 


Today, the gates of Stiles and Morse 
are always locked. "It's very sad," said 
Scully, who was Master of Morse 
College from 1969 to 1974. "There is a 
real problem between security and the 
desire to have open relations to the 
town." 

Locks instead of guards and uni-
forms 
instead of trench coats 
foreshadow 
a 
complete electronic 
security system at Yale. Already at the 
Yale School of Medicine, a desk 
attendant monitors seven closed-circuit 
cameras located at buildings 
throughout 
the 
medical school, 
including the morgue. Anyone who 
Wants to enter one of the buildings 
rnust 
first 
push 
buzzer. The 
attendant then checks the person's I. D. 
card on the television monitor before 
opening the door. 

The medical school installed the
The Co-op's security director Rob Abrams spots shoplifters using cameras 
hidden in sprinkler heads. 
cameras in 1981, and a card-access 
system at two central buildings soon 
followed. "We're trying to have our 
security system as apparent as 
possible," 
Security Manager Joan 
Goddard said. Ac.cording to Goddard, 
medical school students and faculty 
have responded well to the new system. 
"This is a very obvious sign that we are 
doing something. 
I 
think people 
appreciate that," she said. 

How cameras will affect residential 
life at Yale has yet to be seen. Cameras 
like those at the medical school may 
soon appear in the undergraduate 
colleges, although the administration 
will not say when. "We're not ruling 
anything out. 
We are constantly 
modernizing and changing the security 
system 
here," said 
Yale 
Police 
Assistant Commander Donald 
Ferguson. 

At present, the mam form of 
electronic security at Yale is the 
button. Panic buttons hide under desks 
in busy administrative offices and 
hold-up buttons are close at hand in 
offices dealing with a lot of money. 
These buttons set off an alarm on the 
police dispatcher's computer and the 
location of the trouble flashes on the 
screen. This semester, the University 
police 
finished 
installing 
radio 
communications system that provides 
patrol officers with their own 
emergency buttons. The dispatcher's 
computer monitors more than 300 
alarms all together. Last year, Yale 
Police responded to 1,432 burglar 
alarms and 85 steam-tunnel, hold-up, 
and panic alarms. 

While Yale responds to alarms, the 
Co-op is developing a focused plan of 
attack. 
Abrams 
is assembling a 
training film of shoplifters in action for 
all store employees. The Co-op has 
had 45 people arrested for shoplifting 
in the past six months and a 500 
percent increase in arrests since last 
year. Workers are becoming adept at 
protecting the Co-op. "It's almost to 
the point now where my staff knows 
who belongs here and who doesn't," 
Abrams said. 

But Yale can't just identify 
suspicious people and lock them out. 
Neither can it Jock its students in. 
Administrators say they are trying to 
improve security without creating a 
hostile environment. "The emphasis 
here should be on students getting 
around, seeing friends, crossing city 
streets," Daly said. "I certainly don't 
want to see some kind of armed camp 
with big fences and search lights. I 
don't think anyone wants to see that." 

While 
University 
is 
working 
toward a balanced solution, the Yale 
Co-op remains the safest building on 
campus. 
• 
Rldh Conniff, 
a junior in Jonalluzn 
Edwards College is associ4U editor ojTNJ. 
The New Journal/March 3, 1989 7



**Title: The Brewing Storm**
**Author: Kirk Semple**
**Page number(s): 9**

"People have been looking through our 
garbage," Blair Potts (BK '84) said 
smugly. He gestured to a small black 
box on the floor of his office on College 
Street. "Th_at's why we bought a paper 
shredder." Potts has a lot to conceal in 
his refuse, including 27 experimental 
beer formulas and his strategy for 
becoming Connecticut's only commer-
cial brewer. Since he opened a book on 
homebrewing four years ago, he has 
developed a whimsical notion into a 
full-fledged business. Potts' enterprise, 
the New Haven Brewing Company 
(NHBC), will put Connecticut Ale on 
tap by July. With an initial annual 
production of 3,000 barrels distributed 
within 25 miles of New Haven, NHBC 
Will join the fastest-growing sector of 
the beer industry: microbrewing. 

Microbreweries, which by definition 
less than 15,000 31-gallon 
a year, first sprang up in the 
Northwest in the 1970's. There 
now over 55 
microbreweries 
wide, including three in New 
,,_;,'"KI.ana. According to the Association 
Brewers, at least ten more micro-
Dn:wf:ri~~l'l will start making beer by the 
of the year. 

Although these companies can't 
to topple the nation's mega-
-
th~ largest microbrewers 
in a year what Anheuser-
pumps out in 90 minutes- they 
can cater to a niche of consumers not 
satisfied by the middle-of-the-road 
tastes of the major brands. This group 
of beer drinkers has traditionally 
turned to impor~d beers to satisfy its 
demanding palate. Microbreweries 
bring specialty beer production closer 
to home. They currently control less 
than one percent of the country's total 
beer sales, while importers hold seven 
percent, 
and the industry giants 
"Now you can be 
moderately trendy 
and drink a real kick-
ass beer." 
dominate the rest. "People have gotten 
locked into the idea that beer has to be 
made by a company somewhere else," 
Potts said. "The appeal that micro-
breweries play to is a fresh, local 
product." 

The recent surge in popularity of 
microbrews also reflects a general 
enthusiasm for specialty foods and 
dietary temperance. "The movement 
ties in with nouveau svelte American 
cuisine and fern bars," said Alan 
Eames, brewery designer, author of 
A Beer Drinker's Companion, and beer 
anthropologist. "We are definitely in a 
neo-Prohibition frame of mind that 
alcohol in any form is poison. So we 
are going to drink less but better 
quality. Now you can be moderately 
trendy, and drink a real kick-ass beer." 

Potts observed this shift toward less 
common brews in 1984 while mana-
ging Richter's, a bar and restaurant on 
Chapel Street owned by former Yale 
lightweight-crew coach Rick Elser (BR 
'81). Potts and Elser were disappointed 
at first when they noticed that people 
were coming in only for the beer rather 
than for the atmosphere. "We didn't 
want to run a beer hall," Potts said. 
"But then we noticed they were coming 
in for the imported beer." Richter's 
filled all its draught lines with imported 
beer in 1985, and the following year 
drained 900 half-kegs, 22 times the 
average number for a oar its size. 

Seeing an opportunity to chip away 
at the import market, Potts and Elser 
decided to make their own brew. They 
figured that they could offer a unique-
tasting beer and, at the same time, 
satisfy those looking for a 
local 
product. Elser hoped to turn Richter's 
into a brewpub, a bar that sells its own 
brew, but he discovered that Con-
necticut state law prevented him as a
The New Journal/March 3, 1989 9



**A Yale Brewery**
**Author: Jennifer Butler**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Blair Potts (BK '84): "It's one thing to be a brewer; it's another to go into business." --------·----• bar owner from commercially producing beer. 

Since then, Elser has campaigned for a change in this legislation. Last month he testified before the state legislature on behalf of a bill that would legalize brewpubs and, by extension, permit him to invest in NHBC. The original plan circumscribed, Potts founded NHBC on his own in January, 1987 with no formal connection to Richter's. Elser serves as finance and operations advisor to the brewery while he fights the law. 

Potts, meanwhile, set about perfecting his formula. To assist him in the final stages, he hired former Richter's bartender Drew Lipsher (BR '88) as brew master. Potts himself is allergic to beer and has had other people tasting his home brews for four years. Since joining last June, Lipsher has test-brewed beers with Potts in the Taft studio apartment that serves as the company's office and laboratory. In the apartment's bathroom, batches of beer ferment in plastic containers next to glass jars filled with an assortment of grains. Brass tubing, large aluminum pots, and. other homebrewing paraphernalia clutter the kitchen. 

At the core of the brewing process are malted barley, hops, and yeast. The barley provides the beer's sweetness, color, and body, the hops add aroma and bitterness, and the yeast is the fermenting agent that converts the barley's sugar into alcohol. But the process is not simply a matter of adding water and giving the mixture a good stir. To arrive at a palatable and marketable beer, the


**Title: Prevented by law from selling his own beer, Rick Elser (BR '81) leans on the state legislature.**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Prevented by law from selling his own beer, Rick Elser (BR '81) leans on the state legislature. 
If Exercise Seems 
Too Much Like Work 
the close ties between community and 
company. 
Potts takes a lesson from this his-
tory. He understands the volatility of 
the beer market. "Initially, we had this 
half-assed idea that we'd have pots 
sitting on big stoves while we walked 
around in white coats and people 
exclaimed, 'Oh wow, dudes. Check it 
out. They're making beer.'" But Potts 
soon realized that beer brewing was 
more complicated than a high school 
science experiment. "It's one thing to 
want to be a brewer; it's another to go 
into business," he said. After four years 
of research and planning, he now feels 
well-prepared to launch his venture. 
In the beer marketplace where the 
retailer has over 1,200 brands to 
choose from, a badly marketed product 
may die in anonymity. In hopes of 
avoiding this fate, NHBC has hired 
two marketing directors to design a 
sales strategy. They will 
take a 
conservative tack: produce only one 
kind of beer in limited quantities, 
distribute very locally, concentrate on 
getting draught lines in bars, and 
eventually add bottles. With four years 
of retailing experience at Richter's, 
Potts is aware that NHBC must hit 
both retailers and customers with 
thorough advertising. "Beer doesn't sell 
itself," Potts said. "When you're in the 
package store looking for something, it 
doesn't just grow little feet and follow 
you around until you get frustrated 
and say, 'Oh, I'll buy this one.'" 
But for Connecticut Ale to reach the 
shelf, NHBC needs money. Raising 
capital, though, 
is 
difficult 
for 
microbreweries. "Microbreweries tend 
to be capitalized on a shoestring," Elser 
explained. "It's very hard for investors 
to understand how someone can come 
to them, propose sales equivalent to 
what some of the larger operations ship 
in a day, and think they're going to be 
able to take the same profit margin." 
With many avenues of investment 
closed, NHBC has tumed to limited-
partnership arrangements. 

**Title: THOMAS C. DUFFY MUSIC DIRECTOR YALE CONCERT BAND**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
THOMAS C. DUFFY 
MUSIC DIRECTOR 
YALE CONCERT BAND 
The Yale Concert Band is made up of approximately eighty musicians selected from the better 
brass, wind, and percussion players at the University. The Concert Band's repertoire ranges 
from standard marches, classical transcriptions, 
and the time-honored standards of symphonic 
band literature to contemporary and theater 
works for band including music commissioned 
specifically for the group. A recent Yale Band 
commission, Steven Stucky's Voyages for Cello and 
Winds, was nominated for the 1985 Pulitzer Prize 
in music. This January, the Concert Band performed for President George Bush in the 1989 
Presidential Inaugural Parade.


**Title: A Major Revision**
**Author: Jason Wolff**
**Page number(s): 18**

A Major 
Revision 
Jason Wolff 
18 The New Journal March 3, 1989 
Tension has been building in the 
History department. Students in the 
most popular undergraduate major are 
worried about their senior essays. 
Many of the 250 seniors whose essays 
are due at 4 p.m., April 17 complain 
that they are ill-prepared and poorly 
guided. Because of these problems, 
what could be the culmination of a 
history major's academic career often 
becomes what History Professor John 
Boswell 
calls "a 
perfunctory and 
miserable experience." 
Steve Gillon, director of the Senior 
Departmental Essay Program for the 
History department, will admit that there 
are significant problems with the current 
program. 
He blames overcrowding, 
pointing out that the number of 
undergraduate 
history majors has 
jumped 25 percent in the past eight 
years. At the same time, because of budget 
cuts, the number of history professors 
has dropped 30 percent. But many 
students 
feel 
that 
the 
program's 
deficiencies extend beyond the 
problem of overcrowding. They fault 
the department 
for providing 
inadequate preparation and few 
guidelines. 
The major requires that students 
take two junior seminars, which are 
intended to acquaint students with 
historical methodology. 
Yet many 
students complain that these seminars 
do not provide the research skills that 
the senior essay demands. One of 
Hannah 
Caspar's (SY '89) junior 
seminars required only a ten-page 
paper based entirely on secondary 
sources. "How is that supposed to 
prepare me?" she asked. Charles Weed 
(TC '89) feels 
that his 
lack of 
experience with primary sources has 
been a major obstacle. 
Already in unfamiliar territory, 
seniors quickly find that there are few 
guidelines to help them navigate the 



**Title: The Senior Essay: A History Major's Headache**
**Author: Jason Wolff**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
essay process. The information that 
students and their advisors receive 
from the Hi-story department is vague, 
describing the essay as "interpretive 
and analytical, rather than merely 
narrative ." In addition, 
the 
department imposes three deadlines 
for the submission of work in progress. 
But since the students present all work 
directly to their advisor, the individual 
professor can replace or dismiss the 
deadlines. In the decentl:alized senior 
essay program, professors exercise full 
control over the essay's course. 


These flaws are apparent as early as 
junior year when many history 
students begin to scramble for essay 
advisors. With nearly 240 history 
majors per class and only 50 history 
professors, competition 
is keen. 


The department does not require 
faculty to advise essays. While most 
do, some refuse the task, making the 
shortage of advisors more pronounced. 
A few professors in popular con-
centrations find themselves in great 
demand. Over half of the students 
choose to write on American subjects, 
but only 20 percent of the history 
professors specialize in American 
history. 


As long as students are 
allowed to choose their own topics, 
some will be more popular than others. 
But the extreme overcrowding of the 
history major has made this natural 
imbalance more severe. 


Gillon cannot guarantee students an 
advisor whose area of interest matches 
their own. Nevertheless, he claims that 
the program will give seniors "the 
direction and guidance of a faculty 
member." But Gillon's assurance does 
not ·promise the student an advisor 
from the History department: Some 
seniors must search other departments 
in order to find a faculty member with 
enough time to advise them. And the 
shortage of available professors forces 
some seniors to rely on graduate 
students. Ultimately, the program 
guarantees the stJ,ldent an advisor from 
somewhere in the University. What it 
does not guarantee is the direction that 
the advisor's guidance will take. 


Although professors are expected to 
comply with the department's 
requirements, 
their loose inter-
pretations of these guidelines has 
meant that seniors' workloads vary widely. 
The department will defer to the 
professor to 
dic~ate the workload, 
respecting individual teaching styles. 
According to Boswell, "It's really up to 
the teacher whether he wants to make 
the student jump through hoops." 


Professor Henry Turner requires 
Caspar to turn in ten pages of writing 
every week. On the other hand, 
Professor Gaddis Smith asks for only 
minimal work from Marshal Morgan 
(TC '89). "Gaddis doesn't make any 
demands on my time at all," he said. 


Even though Gillon recognizes that 
these discrepancies exist, he says that it 
is the student's responsiblity to find an 
advisor with a compatible approach to 
the essay. But with the competition for 
an advisor as tight as it is, Gillon's 
advice is hardly practical. 


The advisor's control extends 
beyond deadlines to the methodology 
of the essay. There are no set criteria 
for the use of primary sources, and 
students complain that the expect-
ations change 
from 
professor 
to 
professor. Weed has found that while 
many professors feel the senior essay 
should revolve around research of 
primary documents, 
his professor 
expects 
a 
paper that 
is 
more 
historiographical. Teddy Keirn (DC 
'89) has worked with two professors of 
opposite methodological approaches, 
and has felt pressure from both sides. 
"One professor told me not to even 
think of looking at secondary sources 
until I had totally evaluated the 
primary sources," Keirn said. "The 
other told me it was silly to deal with 
the primary sources until I became 
familiar with the secondary material." 


Although students are voicing 
complaints, the History department 
has no intention of altering the 
program. In the last two years the 
department has twice voted down a 
change in the essay. Faculty members 
believe the theory behind the program 
is sound. "History is the art of putting 
things together, and you must learn 
how hard it is to reconstruct history by 
doing it yourself," Boswell said. "And 
so, writing a senior essay proves so 
essential. It's the only way to leave 
your undergraduate education know-
ing anything about history." 


One proposal students have made is 
that the University should hire more 
professors. But the administration does 
not want to pay for a larger faculty. 
Some students have also suggested 
dropping the essay requirement al-
together, or shortening the program to 
one semester. With a one-semester 
requirement, 
they point out that 
professors could advise twice as many 
essays. Many students also feel they 
can complete the program in one 
semester. 


But 
like 
many of his 
colleagues, History Professor William 
Cronon remains unconvinced of the 
meri~s of the one-semester essay. "The 
ultimate. point of the history major is 
for the student to see history as creative 
and constructive," he explained. "And 
for the student to achieve the necessary 
amount of insight requires two terms 


of research and writing." 


Eric Weinberger (SM '89), a former 
member of the Student Advisory 
Board for the History Major, has 
proposed a compromise of sorts: a two-
track major. An honors track would 
require a two-semester essay; a regular 
track would require either a one-
semester essay or a senior seminar. "A 
lot of studen!s just aren't interested in 
writing a two-semester essay," he said. 


Gillon likes Weinberger's proposal but 
doesn't feel the senior essay program 
needs overhauling. According to 
Gillon, the major "creaks along, slowly 
stumbling, but gets where it needs to 
go. It's not as bad as it's made out to 
be." 


Gillon has instead proposed more 
moderate repairs. He has announced 
that juniors will have to attend a 
workshop on methodology before 
signing up for an advisor this spring. 
Gillon hopes that such a requirement 
will teach students how to research 
with 
primary sources. But it 
questionable whether a 
two-hour 
lecture can compensate for an 
ineffective junior seminar. 


The History department is taking 
stronger measures. In trying to combat 
overwhelming size of its 
undergraduate population, 
it is 
making the major more stringent. The 
department has already approved a 
motion that would require history 
majors to take 14 credits instead of 12, 
including a two-semester introduction 
to the major and more distributional 
requirements. But even though the 
motion has passed, the program will 
not be implemented until finances 
become available. These changes won't 
affect this year's senior history majors, 
who have to contend with the depart-
ment's flaws. 


Future students of 
medieval England, colonial America, 
and 
modern 
Africa 
will 
face the same problems unless the 
History department rewrites the senior 
essay program. 


**Title: Pressed For Time**
**Author: Stefan ie Syman**
**Page number(s): 23-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Pressed For Time 
Stefan ie Syman 
Astro red and green wash the 
walls of Yale Station, yet the bright 
colors attract only passing glances. 
Sometimes a 
poster printed with 
mustard or maroon ink stands out in 
this sea of neon and later winds up on a 
dorm room wall. The Honourable 
Company of College Printers creates 
these posters on residential college 
letterpresses. These undergraduates 
spend hours in subterranean print 
shops perfecting their craft, working 
without modern machinery and within 
a dying tradition. 

Before the mid-Sixties, the Uni-
versity printed every table tent, flyer, 
and even the 
Yale 
Banner on a 
letterpress. Now the letterpresses have 
the status of a revival theater, pro-
ducing quality work on a small scale 
while preserving the craft of printing. 
Both older printers' nostalgia and a 
younger generation's fascination for 
printing keep the 11 college presses 
alive. At Yale, letterpress printing has 
survived technological revolutions and 
spawned a creative subculture. 
Timothy Owight and Jonathan 
Edwards colleges 
each claim 
the 
distinction of having had the first print 
shop. Although both opened their 
doors in 1936, TD actually started 
operations three months before JE. 
The donation of a 
letterpress, 
originally intended for printing 
missionary tracts in China, allowed 
Branford students to establish their 
own print shop in 1941. Over the next 
35 years, the other colleges acquired 
presses-except Morse, which shares 
with Ezra Stiles. Once a college was 
equipped with a press, it paid its 
students to print invitations, menus, 
and diplomas. Phillip Ritterbush (SM 
'58) managed to pay half his tuition 
working in the JE print shop. 
Carl Purington Rollins set the tone 
for .all Yale printing. He was the first 
Univesity printer, 
a 
professional 
responsible for filling Yale's printing 
needs. Rollins, still recognized for his 
virtuosity, showed students that good 
printing requires both technique and 
artistry. From 1920 to 1948 Rollins 
was responsible for every piece of 
printed material except for the exit 
signs. 

Eventually students began 
bringing him magazines, invitations, 
and theater programs to design and 
print. 

Roland Hoover (YC '49) became 
University printer in March of 1984. 
Since 
then, 
Hoover 
has 
acted as the shepherd of the college 
presses. Yale printers consider him 
irreplaceable because of his extensive 
knowledge of the machinery and his 
dedication to undergraduate printing. 
Among his 
activities, 
attends bimonthly printing tables 
where the HonourableCompany dis-
cusses current printing events and 
problems. After these meals, Hoover 
will pay a visit to a college print shop, 
roll up his sleeves, and repair a broken 
press if necessary. In the print shop he 
expounds the advantages of letterpress 
versus laser printing. Besides pro-
ducing sharper letters, the letterpress 
gives students direct contact with the 
press. By working with the actual bits


---

**Title: Yale College Printers**
**Author: Stefanie Syrum**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Phillip Ritterbush (SM '58) managed to pay half his tuition working in the JE print shop. poorly-ventilated print shops. Last spring Katherine Weese (SY.'88) spent several days in a row standing on the concrete floor of the Saybrook press. She was trying furiously to complete her assignment for a college seminar, The Art of the Book. Her dedication to printing resulted in a three-day stay at University Health Services while her knees and ankles healed. 
Although Weest!s injuries were exceptional, all students in the class found the requirement to make their own book exacting. Esme Howard (MC '89), who also took the course last spring, pulled several all-nighters to complete a book about ampersands(&) and dedications. 

In her preface Howard explains her topic: "And" is by far the most appealing of conjunctions-no contradictions, no divisions, no qualifications. With enough ampersands one could (theoretically at least) connect the whole world." Such whimsey colored many of the books from the seminar and stems from a printing tradition that makes irreverence an obligation. 

Perhaps JE printers fulfill this duty with the most dedication. Last year someone put up posters attacking the Yale College Council, suggesting students "Kiss Bogus Student Government Goodbye." The pair of red lips brandishing the inflammatory farewell came from a linoleum block printed at the JE press. A year before that, other JE printers decided to dupe freshpeople by producing phony invitations to the Skull and Bones tomb. The night of the event, a crowd showed up outside, cameras in hand, and waited to be admitted. 

The Honourable Company of College Printers gathers to tell of antics like these at the Wayzgoose Dinner every April. This event continues a European tradition where, according to printing lore, apprentices become journeymen-fully-trained printers. 

An explanation of the ceremony's name comes from Random Notes on the Origin of the College Presses, printed at the JE press in 1967. This document claims, "The word wayze means bundle of straw and wayzgoose, a stubble goose- properly the crowning dish of the entertainment." 

This occasion includes a speech by a professional printer or graphic artist and the awarding of the Lohman prize. This coveted award, named after former Yale secretary and printing aficionado Carl Lohman, honors the best piece of undergraduate printing. Dawn Bravato (SY '89), current master printer of Saybrook's Underbrook Press, feels that failing to submit to the Lohman contest indicates a shamefully inactive press. 

All printers attending the dinner receive keepsakes, small bits of memorabilia printed on one of the presses. The keepsake for the last Wayzgoose dinner included the lyrics to a song first sung at the Printer's Festival on April 14, 1848: 
Each Printer lives himself a king, 
A monarch in his might . . .. 
Our mystic art will bear its part 
of glory and reknown. 

Speakers at the Wayzgoose are often college press alumni who have turned their experience in the basement print shops into successful careers in printing or design. Lance Hidy (OE '68), now a well-known graphic designer, has attended the Wayzgoose dinner several times. Former undergraduate printer Charles Altschul also returns regularly for the event. Altschul, whose grandfather designed the Times Roman typeface, passes his knowledge onto students by teaching on occasion The Art of the Book. 

When alumni return next year, they may find that some things have changed. With the planned remodeling of Calhoun, the college printers may lose their Washington Handpress, a press that predates all others at the University. The University will either move the press to the Pierson print shop or sell it- a loss the printing community would regret. Old presses, parts, and type faces are becoming increasingly scarce as the printing industry focuses on improving computer technology. 

Some senior members of the Yale printing community wish the University would increase its support for the presses. Polly Lada-Moscarski, graphic design professor and godmother of the JE press, feels Yale does not pay enough attention to this archaic craft. As she puts it, "Yale presses need more press." 

Perhaps more students will acquire an interest in letterpress printing and a penchant for perennially blackened fingers. Those who have made printing their profession hope that they will. Hoover, involved in printing for most of his life, praises the craft: It allows someone to make physical an abstract idea, impressing ink onto paper without alienating the printer from the method. Hoover still marvels that wood fiber and plant dyes can become a shakespearean sonnet.


**Title: Afterthought/Mistaken Identity**
**Author: Mario T. Garcia**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Afterthought/Mario T. Garcia 
Mistaken Identity 
The term Hispanic as used in the 
1980's collectively designates the 
various peoples of Latin American 
descent within the United States. First 
used in the 1980 census, the term was 
picked up by the media and govern-
ment as a catchall point of reference. It 
was, unfortunately, accepted by some 
Latinos without complaint who then 
used it to describe themselves. Yet 
what appears on the surface to be an 
innocent and useful way to identify 
people of Latin-American extraction, 
the term Hispanic has significant and 
troubling ideological implications. 

Not the least of these, is the 
intent- conscious or not- to counter 
the ethnic nationalism of Latinos such 
as Chicanos and Puerto Ricans whose 
movements, beginning back in the 
1960's, were perceived to be potentially 
threatening to the U.S. class and racial 
order. Used as part of a countervailing 
strategy, the term Hispanic is intended 
to produce a new form of hegemony by 
imposing an external definition of 
what it has meant to be a Latino in the 
United States. Rather than conveying 
the uniqueness of the Latino culture 
and its history of oppression and 
subordination in a rigid class and 
racial system such as the United States, 
the term Hispanic conveys a quite 
different message. That message is one 
of conformity to the U.S. system, the 
discarding of traditional "cultural 
baggage," and the placing of the 
Hispanic experience within the process 
of assimilation with the promised result 
being attainment of the American 
Dream. 

· .It is perhaps no coincidence that the 
term Hispanic originated during the 
years of the Reagan Administration 
and the rise to power of the Far Right. 
Like the Reagan myth of the resur-
gence 
of 
the 
quintessential 
American- the self-made person- the 
term Hispanic in a Reaganesque sense 
seeks to convert Latinos into believing 
in such a myth and to abandon more 
28 The New JournaVMarch 3, 1989 
aggressive and, in fact, independent 
measures to achieve self-deter-
mination. Unlike earlier terms of self-
identification such as Mexicano, 
Hispano, Mexican American, Latino, 
and Chicano, the term Hispanic is not 
organic to the Chicano or Latino 
experience. It is an 
artifical and 
abstract creation that, in the context of 
Reagan's world view, represents a new 
form of repressive ideological control. 

Yet 
unlike earlier efforts at 
ideological control which denied racial 
minorities an identity and even a 
place in American history'· .the 
Hispanic movement-if we can call it · 
that- is a more seductive concept in 
that it credits racial minorities with a 
proper place in a pluralistic America. 
The idealized image of the United 
States as an ethnically and culturally 
pluralistic society replaced the older 
· melting pot idea as the prevailing view 
in the 1960's. This view helped to 
shape the formulation of what could be 
called nationality policy. 

Given the explosion of the African-
American civil rights movement and 
the subsequent revolt by other 
repressed 
nationalities 
such as 
Chicanos which gave lie to the concept 
of the melting pot, pluralism became 
the obvious ideological response to 
meet the challenges of the Sixties. The 
concept of pluralism, of course, is 
embedded in a dialectic. On the one 
hand, it is the result of genuine efforts 
by national minorities to gain 
recognition and a voice as distinct 
ethnic and cultural entities and to 
achieve self-determination in a society 
which has robbed them of their history, 
their identity, and their sense of self-
worth. On the other hand, pluralism 
represented, in the context of the 
1960's, a reformist effort by the liberal 
section of the ruling sector to respond 
to the crisis posed by the nationality 
question. The ruling sector sought to 
regain 
ideological and 
political 
hegemony by conceding particular 
political and economic reforms coupled 
with cultural recognition of various 
national minorities. 

For this pluralistic nationality policy 
to 
succeed, 
however, 
the federal 
government had to play an active role 
in furthering reforms necessitating 


--- Page 29 ---

greater federal expenditures as well as 
monitoring progress especially through. 
the courts. The reaction to such a 
nationality policy on the part of the 
conservative wing of the ruling sector 
became clear in the 1970's with the 
slowing down of such reforms. How-
ever, the greatest challenge clearly 
came with the election of Reagan in 
1980. While the Reagan counter-
re~mation aimed at eliminating or 
substantially reducing the reforms and 
the power won by the struggles of 
national minorities and of women, 
gays, the poor, etc. it could not fully 
restore the older melting pot ideology 
still favored by _ the Far Right- the 
ideology they regard as being the best 
form of control with regard to 
nationality policy. The melting pot 
provides the masses and particular 
excluded groups with a simple, cynical 
creed- the promise that if they work 
hard enough, prove their loyalty, and 
accept the dominant culture and 
values, that they in time will achieve 
the full American Dream. Reagan's 
nationality policy conveys the melting 
pot message but at the same time 
appropriates the reform veneer of the 
pluralist concept. 

The conservative agenda for ethnic 
America is perhaps best put forward by 
economist Thomas Sowell of the 
Hoover Insititute at Stanford Uni-
versity in his book Ethnic America: A 
History, published in 1981. Sowell's 
vision of ethnic America is based on 
four major but historically false 
premises. First, Sowell contends that 
ethnicity rather than class and race is 
at the center of American history. 
Hence, divisions and struggles have to 
do with the myriad of ethnic groups 
adjusting to one another and pursuing 
a process which Sowell terms "ethnic 
succession." Ethnic groups- including 
Europeans, Africans, Mexican, and 
Asians-have to tearn to co-exist with 
one another in a dynamic capitalist 
system which can accommodate all of 
them. Class is not particularly crucial 
in Sowell's analysis since for the most 
part he sees few class lines or barriers 
to restrict mobility. 

Second, that while ethnic and racial 
discrimination has existed it has been 
minor compared to other societies. 
Sowell views racism as only a passing 
historical phenomena and one which 
has not been fundamental in pre-
venting socio-economic mobility. 
Moreover, what racial barriers to 
mobility have existed have been mostly 
eliminated. Third, that despite certain 
differences, all ethnic groups, 
including African-Americans and 
Latinos, have shared in the fruits of the 
American system. 
As he argues 
"perhaps the most striking pattern 
among American ethnic groups is their 
general rise in economic conditions 
with the passage of time." And, 
fourth, 
Sowell suggests that if some 
ethnic groups have gained greater 
mobility and standing, it is more the 
result of those groups- such as 
Western European- having arrived 
earlier and hence acquiring a head-
start over later immigrants. 

Sowell attributes the more inferior 
Mexican-American economic standing 
as due to a lack of political leadership; 
high and persistent fertility rates; 
continued use of Spanish; fewer efforts 
at becoming naturalized U.S. citizens; 
and the low priority given to edu-
The New JournaVMarch 3, 1989 29 


--- Page 30 ---

**Title: The Free Market and Hispanic America**
**Author: Mario T. Garcia**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
World. At the center is the idea that 
the alleged U.S. free market model has 
created and continues to create a 
dynamic and fluid condition which 
makes progress attainable for every 
individual and every ethnic group and 
by extension the rest of the world. 

Discussion 
of class and race are 
anachronistic and are simply excuses 
for the inability or unwillingness of 
some to accept the market place model 
and to conform to the basic principles 
and culture of that model. 

Consequently, if the marketplace is 
the panacea for society's ills then there 
is no necessity for state intervention to 
promote 
particular disadvantaged 
groups. Not only is such intervention 
functionally wrong in that its 
opponents believe it actually restricts 
mobility, but it is patently unfair and 
even un-American in Reagan's 
"colorless America." The free-market 
thesis 
then has justified the 
dismantling or weakening of a variety 
of federal programs aimed at the 
protection of racial minorities, 
programs ranging from· civil rights to 
food stamps to education. Moreover if 
there is failure- if individuals or 
particular ethnic groups do not ascribe 
to the market place model- it is not the 
system's fault, but the individual's or 
group's. 

These views of ethnic America and 
in particular of Hispanic America have 
unfortunately had severe effects on 
Latinos. 

Despite the market-place 
hegemony sustained by the Reagan-
Bush administration during the 1980's 
and its acceptance by a growing 
number of Latinos, this growing ethnic 
groups still faces at the end of the 
1980's serious economic and social 
problems. 

Unemployment, 
under-
employment, an expanding under-
class, 
educational segregation, 
growing hostility to Latino culture as 
exempli fied in "English only" 
movements , 
politic·al 
representation, 
and many other 
roadblocks to socio-economic 
integration remain. 

What was targeted as the "Decade of 
the Hispanic" has instead tumed into 
years of frustration. Yet despite the 
contradictions between an ideology of 
success and the reality of the majority 
of Latinos, it has been difficult to 
counter the Hispanic image of material 
success fostered by the Reagan-Bush 
forces. What is needed to confront this 
contradiction will be for progressive 
forces within the Latino communities to 
mount a counter-hegemonic move-
ment aimed at recapturing the hearts 
and minds of Latinos. Not the least 
significant arena for this confrontation 
will be in the realm of self-identity. 

The ability of self-identification is the 
starting point for recapturing one's 
sense of worth and of destiny. What is 
needed is to replace Hispanic myth 
with Latino reality. 

• 
Mario T. Garcia, 
visiting prifessor oj 
History, is professor of History and Chicano 
Studies at the Universif:y of California, Santa 
Barbara. His book Mexican Americans: 
Leadership Ideology and Identity, 
1930-1960 will be released this year. 


**Title: Congratulations**
**Author: The New Journal**

Congratulations 
The New Journal is pleased to announce 
the election of David King as Publisher 
and Cynthia Cameros as Editor-in-
Chief, effective today. David joined 
the magazine in 1988 and has served as 
Production Manager this year. Cyn-
thia joined the magazine in 1987 and 
has served as Associate Editor for the 
past year. David and Cynthia will con-
tinue the leadership of Publisher Mary 
Chen and Editor-in-Chief Martha 
Brant. 

Five additional members of TNJs 
new Executive Board will also assume 
their offices today: Business Manager, 
Malaika Amon, Managing Editors, 
Ruth Conniff and Stefanie Syman, 
Designer, Stephen Hooper, and Pro-
duction Manager, Lisa Silverman. 

Together with the outgoing Executive 
Board they produced this issue and 
they are now planning their first issue, 
which will appear in April. We con-
gratulate them and wish them the best 
of luck. 



Stumble upon 
_.s the 
:·Unexpected 
pottery 
Crabtree and 
Evelyn 
toiletries 
and 
918 Whalky Ave., 397-8162 
FE LLOW£HlP. 
_ §JTORE 
Cor. Dwlgllt .,. £I, St-. 
N&w 1/~v£1'1, C-t 
The New JoumaVMarch 3, 1989 31


LEA 
P.O. BOX 1890, 155 WHITNEY AVENUE, NEW HAVEN, CT 06508 203-432-6076 
FOUNDED 1890 

