Publication date: November 1979
Volume: thirteen
Issue number: one


**MASTHEAD:**
- Editor in Chief: Karen Sideman
- Designer and Graphics Editor: Eric Bibler
- Publisher Pro Tempore: Julie Peters
- Publisher Pro Tempore: Jamie Romm
- Assistant Editors: Craig Fitt, Paul De Vries, Kacey Clagett, Stacey Levy, Jane Stanier, Anthony Press, Dale Robbins, Liz Forman
- Business Staff: Jeff Foster, Leslie Boyce.
- Special Thanks: Margaret Cohen, Master Charles Davis, Jeffrey Nunokawa, Dean Eustace Theodore, Terry Murphy, Jane Dickenson, Peter Swenson, Lanny Hammer, Ella Torrey, Jamie Hutchison, Charlton Press, Harold Conklin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- Thorn in the Side of Complacency - Micha Odenheimer
- Comment -  
- An Interview with Alexander Ginzberg - Eva Saks
- Dark Victory - The Yale Band Fight Song Competition
- Ain't Misbehavin' - An Interview with B.F. Skinner
- Metropolitan Life - Way Out West on West End Avenue
- Dress Well and Be Good Looking - for Five good Reasons
- Book Review - J.D. McClatchy does Paris
- The Trope Stops Here - An Interview with Jacques Derrida - Deborah Weiss
- Deconstruction and Witticism - Martha Hollander, Eleanor Roberts
- Bride of Derrida YALE - Alexandra Kahn.
- Heart of Glass - J.D. McClatchy
- yy g 15 - Pam Schirmeister
- N¥'t


**Title: Back in the U.S.S.R.**
**Author: Eva Saks**
**Page number(s): 2-4**

An Interview with Alexander Ginzberg

TNJ: How old were you when you --------
AG: I was ten years old when I 
discovered that there was no notion of 
human rights at all in the Soviet 
Union. I began to express my 
thoughts, and to ask questions, and I 
was told that it was forbidden to speak 
my thoughts and not only forbidden, 
but dangerous. 

TNJ: When you speak of human 
rights, do you refer only to the rights 
of free expression? Or do you include 
economic rights too within your 
tiefiniti_on?

AG: ~ include both kinds of rights. 
ln the Soviet Union, people have no 
right to work-but only the obligation 
to work. They have no right to study, 
but only the obligation to do so. 
There are no such things as rights, no 
such concept, but only things that are 
forbidden or are obligatory. 

TNJ: What about a country where 
there were a few rich people, while the 
majority of people were very poor. 
Would that country be violating the 
human rights of its citizens?

AG: That would depend on the way 
the rich behave towards the poor. If 
the poor received welfare help, if they 
received medical care when they 
needed it, that country might be 
alright. 

TNJ: What about Sexual 
discrimination, the rights of women 
and homosexuals? Are the rights of 
these groups included in your 
definition?

AG: Women, yes. Homosexuals is a 
more difficult question. The 
declaration of human rights can only 
include those rights which don't harm 
others. I spoke at the conference of the 
American Federation of teachers. 
Immediately before I spoke, there was 
a vote to decide whether the teachers 
union should fight for the right of 
homosexuals to teach. There were 
about 800 teachers there and they 
needed a two-thirds majority to pass 
the declaration to fight. To my 
pleasure, they did not get a two-thirds 
majority. They just missed it. I feel 
sorry for a child whose teacher is 
homosexual. 

TNJ: Is the abrogation of human 
rights inherent in a socialist system of 
government?

AG: The utter lack of human rights is 
one of the main points of socialism. 
Under socialism, there is a leveling off 
according to the lowest common 
denominator. The system tells the 
people: there is no need to reach. Let 
everyone be poor. Let everyone be 
stupid. Don't stick out. If you stick 
out, you will be cut off. Show me a 
different kind of socialism. 

TNJ: What do you mean by 
socialism?

AG: I mean a system wherein there is 
no private property and all property is 
controlled by the government. 

TNJ: You would not include Sweden 
then, as a socialist state.

AG: No. Sweden is a welfare state, 
but is is not a socialist state. 

TNJ: Do you think that it is the 
socialist system of government that is 
solely responsible for the eclipse of 
human rights that you speak of, or do 
you think that the emphasis o~ science 
and technology which is pervasive in 
Western societies also endangers 
human rights?

AG: The human spirit does not 
depend on technology. There were, I 
am sure, technological exploits in the 
stone age as well. 

TNJ: Do you think that consumerism, 
and tlie building of a consumer society 
such as we have here in the United 
States, has an adverse effect on human 
rights?

AG: This is not a consumer society. 
Where else but in America does one 
witness so many volunteer 
organizations. I visited such an 
organization, in Washington, the 
Freedom House. In America you have 
voluntary organizations that do many 
things. From such an organization as 
Amnesty International, to 
organizations that teach English to 
black and Indian children. These 
would not exist in a consumer society. 

TNJ: Do you think that there is a 
common ground, a unity in aim or 
approach, among the various dissident 
groups, from Jews to Ukranians, to 
Baptists, to Lithuanians?

A G: I worked on the Helsinki 
monitar with Scharansky, with 
Russians, with Lithuanians, with 
Ukranians and there was no problem 
at alL All of us want to attain 
freedom-not anarchy. Just room to 
breathe. In a totalitarian system, all 
who do not have enough air band 
together. All .of us made it our goal to 
us. 

TNJ: Have the forms of persecution 
in the Soviet Union changed since the 
days of Stalin?

AG: The conditions in the prisons 
have gotten worse. They put in prison 
as many as they have to, as many as 
they can get away with. Now, for 
instance, they will not put Sakhorov in 
prison. They are afraid that scientific 
contacts crucial to their military will be 
interrupted. 

TNJ: Do you feel that anti-semitism 
in the Soviet Union is a major 
problem?

AG: There is anti-semitism because 
the Soviets disapprove of any 
nationalism, of any group that has a 
strong identity and commitment to 
anything besides the state. There is 
anti-semitism, and there is also anti-
Lithuanianism and anti-Ukranianism. 
The J~ws are one percent of the 
population. What about the other 
ninety-nine percent? They are also 
being persecuted. There has been an 
agreement between the United States 
and the Soviet government. It is all 
right for America and the American 
press and politicians to talk about the 
Jews. They have been made into a 
special case, and the Americans and 
Russians will haggle about them. 
The Russian people consider them a 
special case. But all the other groups, 
one is not allowed to speak of them. 
The editors of The Washington Post 
told me that I had space to write a 
column in their editorial section on 
anything that I wanted to. I chose to 
write about the ten thousand Baptists 
who wish to emigrate from the Soviet 
Union. They did not print this. The 
Jews are the only group who it is 
permitted to write about. 

TNJ: Because the Jews own the press?

AG: No, because the Jews can be 
seen as a special case-for better and 
for worse. 

TNJ: What would your advice to 
American students be?

AG: Students are a real force in 
American politics. Ten years ago they 
turned to the left, they stopped the 
Vietnam war-either because they 
thought it was unfair or because they 
did not want to fight. Students can 
cause another turnto. I'm sure you 
have surmised by now that I am a 
reactionary. 

TNJ: Don't you think that American 
students turned to the left because they 
saw their country supporting regimes 
that denied their own people human 
rights, regimes that the American 
government supported for economic 
reasons-South Africa, South Korea, 
South Vietnam, certain Latin 
American regimes?

A G: Have you ever been through a 
war? There can never be full human 
rights during a war, while a war is 
being waged. During the American 
Revolution, there were areas and times 
in which a person could be shot simply 
on suspicion. The situation of South 
Africa, South Korea, South Vietnam 
has been that of a very tense battle. 
Still, millions upon millions more 
people have died as a result of the 
Russian and Chinese revolutions than 
have been affected by these rightist 
regimes. Sixty million people have been 
murdered by the Soviet government 
since the revolution-and this does not 
count war time. Six million people 
have been killed in Communist China. 
The same brutality occurs in any 
country in which such a system is 
introduced. Cuba is a country of one 
million people-<X>unt the victims of 
her system. In East Germany, there 
has been no noticable population 
increase in recent years. This is not 
because they use birth control over 
there, but because they shoot people 
who dissent. 

TNJ: Still, if the American students 
are to support the use of American 
power, acting as a global judge and 
policeman, we have to be sure of the 
morality of those who wield the powe1 
I think many students remained 
unconvinced of the moral fibre of 
those groups which lead our nation.

AG: I must defend America. Who is 
now most involved in saving the 
Vietnamese refugees? Isn't it America 
I know because I have been involved, 
since I left Russia in the movement to 
help the boat people. Those people 
who were against the war in Vietnam 
are not helping the boat people. 

TNJ: That's not exactly true.

AG: Jane Fonda, Daniel Ellsberg, 
Angela Davis-they were asked for 
their help and they refused. I tried to 
arrange a meeting with Jane Fonda 
and Muhammed Ali-they refused to 
meet with me. 

TNJ: Joan Baez , . . 

AG: I have no trouble with Joan 
Baez. At least she has a conscience. 
She learned about the U.S.S.R. while 
visiting there. She was not allowed to 
sing in public. So she came and sang in 
the kitchen of Sakhorov. 

TNJ: Getting back to the question of 
American students-what direction 
would you like their activism to take.

AG: Fmt of all, I wish that they 
would not listen to me, or to anyone 
else. I want them to go and inquire 
and listen and see things with their 
own eyes. You know in Moscow, when 
a visitor comes, they show him 
MQSCOw State University. It is much 
smaller than Yale-and it is for forty 
thousand students. There is no 
freedom for the student. 

TNJ: Does it matter to you that there 
are people living witl}in a few blocks of 
this university who don't have 
adequate places to live or enough to 
eat?

AG: This is true? Of course this 
bothers me. Of course I believe that 
people must take care of one 
another-if I did not believe that I 
would not have been a dissident in the 
Soviet Union. I think that each person 
is responsible to others, and that the 
community and the state is especially 
so. In my country they spit on other 
people. In the Soviet Union, men help 
one another and are put in prison for 
it. 

TNJ: And what wouJd you hke to see 
students doing?

AG: If American students would set 
up a volunteer organization similar to 
the Peace Corps-to the ideal of the 
Peace Corps-I know little of how this 
organization actually worked-a corps 
that would work in China, in the 
U.S.S.R. in Southeast Asia, in Eastern 
Europe, a group that would concern 
itself with human rights-then they 
would help us and our people and they 
would work for peace. Nobody would 
ask such an organization to work 
according to political rules. This 
would not be a government 
organization. I do not want others to 
work for the political goals of 
Alexander Ginsberg. If they will only 
carry on their own ideals.


Micha Odenheimer '80 is not yet a Communist.


**Title: Dark Victory**
**Author: Jamie Romm**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The ltrst poetry of mankind is lost forever in the 
murky eddies. of prehistory; but it probably 
originated, like so much of human culture and 
perhaps even society itself, in warfare. The battle-
cry or paean is certainly a common aspect to of 
war from the very beginnings of history, and it is 
not hard to imagine bands of neolithic warriors 
chanting rhythmic exhortations to one another u 
they aavanced into the fray. The raw might of 
these battlelteld poems was later picked up in parts 
of more civilized works like Homer's /Iliad, in 
which Agamemnon orders: "Let no one escape 
towering doom at our hands, not even the man-
child in his mother's belly!' Since.then, the battle-
cry has been taken up by Greek lyric poets, 
Roman state poets, Galliards, Elizabethans, 
Cavaliers, Romantics-almost every age that has 
sent its youth off to war has produced poetry to 
rally them. 

In the football ltght song we see the modern 
descendant of this ancient literary form. Here, the 
primordial gods of destruction and carnage are 
raised up anew. Once again the martial rhythms 
sound their sonorous beat, and the cry for battle · 
and conquest goes up from the host. Students and 
alumni who ten years ago might have been 
Conscientious Objectors and voted for Eugene 
McCarthy can be heard in today's football arenas 
calling out for blood. 


**Title: 1. Smash, Bang, Crash**
**Author: Brian Overland, 1980**
**Page number(s): 5**

We're going to start a panic in Harvard 
Square, 
Right after we send a jolt through Nassau 
· Halli 
We're going to make them suffer, but we 
don't care, 
The truth is we like to watch them cry 
and bawl. 
Smash! Bang! Crash! Eli's men will st9r~ 
and rail! 
Smash! Bang! Crash! Poor old Harvard we 
will nail! 
As we smash! Bang! Crash! For Eli Yale! 
The startling energy and vigor of this song 
reminds us at once~of the warrior poems of old. 
The author's conltdent assertion that "we don't 
care" about the enemy's suffering recalls the lordly 
detachment of Achilles as he abandons the hard-
pressed Greek army. The notion of the hero as 
someone who stands outside the social and moral 
codes of his day is plainly at work here. 
The idea of panic recurs throughout the song, 
conjuring up a frightening picture of the utter 
tragedy of defeat. One is reminded of Byron's 
"The Destruction of Sennacherib": "And the 
widows of Ashur are loud in their wail/ And the 
idols are broke in the temples of Baal." Defeat 
means more than just material or economic loss 
for the vanquished; it loosens the very 
underpinnings of social unity. Mr. Overland 
reflects this sense of chaos with the resonant 
"Smash! Bang! Crash!" of the refrain. The result 
is a poem of striking power and brutality. The 
masterful ltfth line is enough to send shivers of 
barbarian glee down even the most civilized spines. 


**Title: 2. Mother Yale**
**Author: Scott MacCiarty, 1980**

We're not afraid of Princeton, and we're not 
afraid of Brown, 
And Dartmouth doesn't scare us; we'll run 
them out of town. 
We leave the Crimsons shaking, 'cause 
Harvard has no chance! 
Although they wear their cleats, its Mother 
Yale who wears the pants. 
REFRAIN: 
We'll ltght for Mother Yale, 
We'll ltght for good old Eli and for 
Mother Yale, 
The one we'll ever stand by-only Mother 
Yale! 
Our hearts belong to you, so give another 
wail! 
It's for the team that wears the blue! 


**Title: Yale, For Thee**
**Author: Jim Gardner, 1980**

Yale for thee, thy victory, 
Our voices now as one we raise; 
Guaranteed ascendancy for Eli throughout 
our college days; 
Onward go, your prowess show 
Each foe your mighty will obeys. 
For our hearts and minds eternally 
We tender unto Eli, as Yale we praise. 
Anthropologists tell us that ancestor worship 
evolved as the ltrst form of religion in many 
cultures. Perhaps it was the dead ancestor who was 
invoked for strength in the ltrst tribal battle songs. 
These two works seem to rely heavily on pagan 
ritual and belief, particularly with regard to 
ancestor worship. 
Mr. Gardner addresses his song of adoration to 
a numinous force dubbed •Yale', which possesses 
no physical appearance or attributes, but hovers 
cloudlike above the plane of the poem. There is 
some suggestion at the end that this is in fact Eli 
Yale, a legendary ancestor from the distant past, 
but this is not developed. In any event the author 
clearly speaks as a worshipper of this force, 
singing its praise and carrying forth its glory 
throughout time. One is reminded of the ancient 
heroic ballads, which were sung by the baras 
partly to preserve the immortality of the hero. The 
notion of memory as life is important here. 


**Title: 4. The Big Blue Wave**
**Author: Steve Hayes, 1981**

Eli! Eli! The Big Blue wave is breaking! 
Now the wave is at its height! 
Now the bulldog growls with all his might! 
Eli! Eli! And Victory's for the taking! 
Big Blue victory's in sight, as we fight for 
Eli Yale! 
Eli! Eli! The Big Blue wave is rising! 
The save will crash, the field will quake! 
The wave is leaving conquest in its wake! 
Eli! Eli! And Harvard is capsizing! 
Blues will win, make no mistake, for the 
sake of Eli Yale! 
The use of metaphor achieves a vivid effect in 
both these songs. Mr. Hayes uses the image of an 
enormous wave to characterize the might of the 
Yale team. One is reminded of Byron's description 
of the Assyrian army: "And the sheen o.f their 
spears was like stars on the sea/ When the blue 
wave rolls nightly on deep Galilee." The image 
here is not a serene one, however, but a violent 
one. The repetition of the "ake" sounds 
throughout the poem creates a harsh slamming 
effect similar to Tennyson's famous "Break, 
break: break,! On thy cold grey stones, 0 sea." 
The result is a poem of towering might and 
beauty. It is interesting that the Harvard team is 
portrayed as being at sea (cf ... capsizing") while 
the wave itself is breaking onto the field; perhaps 
there is a mythical allusion intended. 


**Title: 5. Bulldog Blues**
**Author: Sam Zurier, 1980**

When the Crimson sabers rattle, 
And the bears of Brown do roar, 
Eli's troops will come to battle 
Like we always have before. 
We will meet them and defeat them 
As we ride our victor cruise 
They can run, they can race, but they'll get 
second place 
When they face our bulldog blues! 
We will rally the Eli's nation 
From the Bowl to Wooster Square, 
As we establish domination 
On the ground and in the air. 
So let's give three cheers, for the 
good years 
Cause we know we cannot lose, 
They can use all their men, but we'll 
beat them again 



**Page 6 Advertisements**

MIDDLE EASTERN FOODS 
85 HOWE STREET 
NEW HAVEN, CT. 06511 
(203). 562-8444


lalalel reslauranl 
119 MAC DOUGAL STREET 
NEW YORK, N.Y. 10012 
(212) 87 4-9248 
11 A.M.- 3 A.M. 
OPEN 36s DAYS A YEAR


10 A.M. -
5 A.M. 
IF YOU HAVEN'T EATEN AT MAMOUN'S, YOU HAVEN'T EATEN 



**Page 6 Articles**

**Title: Ain't Misbehavin'**
**Author: Deborah Weiss**
**Page number(s): 6**

A n Interview with B.F. Skinner 
B. F. Skinner is a professor of psychology at Harvard. 
A pioneer in the field of behavioral psychology, his 
first popular work was the utopian novel Walden 
Two (1948). During the 'sixties, popular interest in his 
work increased. In 1971, qfter the publication of 
&yond Freedom and DiKnity, Time published a 
cover story on Skinner which concluded that 
.,Skinner's utopian projection is less likely to be a 
blueprint for the Golden Age than for the theory and 
practice of hell." The second volume of Skinner's 
autobiography The Slulping of a Behaviorist was 
published by Knopf this summer. 

DW Why t,lid you write an autobiography? 
BPS My work has been very much 
misunderstood. And I have been misunderstood. 
When I lecture at a university someone is bound to 
say afterwards, "You should do this more often. 
People think of you with two heads or something 
like that. You're really a human being." 
I've tried to show the differ-ent sides of my life 
and particularly the development of my scientific 
work, which was a series of accidents very largely. 
Lucky accidents certainly. It gives a better picture 
of a scientist at work than the philosophers of 
science who reconstruct what goes on in a 
scientific discovery. 
One principle is to tell the story as it happened. 
I'm writing as you'd write a novel. I've avoided 
reading autobiography since I started. I don't want 
to imitate anyone on this. I've just been following 
some principles of what I think a story should be 
rather- than giving it any artistic structure 
too . . . I'm not dressing it up. I'm not putting in 
irrelevant but teasing tension. 

D W 
Were you hoping to correct popular or 
scholarly misunderstanding? 
BPS There's a great deal of very strange 
misunderstanding: 
At a conference in Washington, a man came 
from India and said to me that if I would go to 
India he would give me a hundred human babies 
to study . . . the whole business about the 
daughter- we raised in the SO<alled air crib, that 
she killed herself or became psychotic. I've 
somehow or other- been confused with John B. 
Watson. At one time Watson published a book in 
which he claimed that affection is a very 
danaerous thing and a parent shouldn't show 
affection. He later- on regretted that he ever 
published that. 
Special tlumlcs to Guy 9tzrden, Terry Holloway, 
NllltCY Mtlllll, Rulon Wells, and the ~ 
at 
Haskins Labs. 
an attack on my position. They're miles off the 
target because I have never- suggested that type of 
control at aU, though I do raise these questions. 
Burgess said that he and Kubrick wanted to 
demonstrate that violence, if done with a free will, 
was better than being good due to conditioning . 
The violence in Clockwork Orange wasn't due to 
free will. They were high on a drug and were as 
ll)UCh conditioned as they could possibly be. 

How do you view the contro"versy between 
you and Noam Chomsky? 
BFS I am so perfectly confident that my book 
Verbal Behavior is the right way to go about this 
and that Chomsky has kept the linguists from 
discovering it that I don't worry about this issue. 
The curious thing is that Chomsky has tied this 
aU into political and philosophical and ethical 
issues. He now has quo\e 'figured out> that Locke, 
with the idea that you ~ 
learn from experience 
was really the figure bebiri«l.__ the whole Industrial 
Revolution and capitalism. ~t that's absurd 
-beaiuse that is an environmentaijst approach and 
it is the Descartes kind of inborn lnt,elligence which 
is the belief that people are as they are- they're 
bright or not bright-because they are born that 
way. He's really on the wrong side of the fence 
because according to Locke anyone can become a 
genius if he just has enough experience wher-eas 
according to Descartes you're licked at the start. 
You have inborn rules according to Chomsky, but 
you have only what you got with your genes. 
He should be on Jensens side completely. I 
don't understand this at aU. 
I am, naturally, as John B. Watson was, an 
environmentalist. Watson exaggerated, he said, 
"Give me a dozen infants and I can make them 
into a doctor, lawyer- and so on. He couldn't do 
that, of course. He said right away, "I am 
exagerating and I know it." 
1 C:lon·t tJUnk very well about the so<alled 
'genetic endowment' of the human organism. My 
specialty, and I don't want to try and talk outside 
my specialty, is to discover what. can be done with 
an organism. It might be a human being, it might 
be a pigeon, it might be a raccoon. We have in the 
last thirty or forty years, made extraordinary 
progress in shaping new types of behavior, and in 
maintaining behavior in strength (what's usually 
called 'motivation'). 

D W Do you still believe, as you suggested in 
Walden Two, that the family is becoming 
obsolete? 
••••••••••••••••••••••••blaming the whole thing on me. 
Both Kubrick and Burgess have said that it was 
BFS As SOciety has evolved, you have families, 
and it has been extremely important for the 
protection of children and later for the 
conservation of property, to respect family 
relationships. But we've now reached the point 
where about half the families are only one parent 
families. It presumably is possible to raise children 
more effectively if you know something about it. 
would go to India, he would give me one hundred 
human babies to study. 
spent 
my Ufe finding alternatives to 
punishment and yet because I talk about control, 
they think I mean the whip. I tt}ink people are 
controlled and I want to make sure that that 
control works for the betterment of the individual 
and of the species as well. All my work in 
education and elsewher-e has been to_ get rid of not 
only the paddle and the birch rod but aU of the 
subtle ways in which teachers punish students. 
Although I may have coined the word "behavior 
modification" (I'm not sure of that) I don't mean 
implanted electrOdes or vomit therapy. When 
Clockwork Orange came out, I was in London and 
some underground magazine there bad an iSSlJe 

The textbook doesn't come with the baby. An 
ordinary small apartment with two parents and 
two kids is a very difficult sort of situation. With 
a differ-ent organization to society as a whole, the 
old styl~ _family would not any longer be needed. 

Do you think that parental instincts are too 
weak to determine much behavior, or that some 
instinctive tendencies are strong but should be 
replaced by learned behavior? 
. 
BFS We have got rid of most of our instinctive 
behavior because we have ~telligenC! to take its place. 
Personal relationships however, are things which 
remain constant for thousands and thousands of 
gener-ations. The only feature of the human 
environment today that resembles that of twenty 
thousand years ago is other- people. That is 
constant, so that instinctive behavior which deals 
with other people bas a chance to survive. Love 
relationships, caring relationships, could well have 
a measure of phylogenetic character in them. That 
would apply only wher-e the environment is stable 
from generation to generation and would involve 
mostly other people. Care of a child, mother 
embracing a child at her breast could be quite 
..• 
strong for merely phylogentic reasons and yet 
would not necessarily be strong enough to keep the 
mother nursing unless the culture wer-e doing a 
great deal more, showing her how and criticizing 
her if she dido 't. 
It would be'true of lovemaking, different ways 
of making love. All the taboos would probably be 
cultural and would then modify the way the thing 
was carried on. 

Do you have any general views about the 
importance or unimportance of genetic factors in 
determining human differences? 
BFS I differ with my friend E. 0. Wilson and 
the soc'obiologists. I don't think that the notion of 
~iC?logical restraints is anything like as powerful as 
he thinks. It is true that one cannot learn to play 
the piano without the genetic ability to move the 
fmgers but that doesn't mean that ther-e is 
anything fundamentally genetic about learning to 
play the piano. People have invented and produced 
pianos because certain kinds of noises are 
reinforcing. Now that is genetic, I am sure, in very 
obscure way. 
Without a body we wouldn't have behavior. If 
you're going to teach a roomful of children you 
must be sure that they h<ave eyes and ears, you 
must be sure that they have fingers but aside from 
that, what they're taught and bow well they learn 
and how fast they learn are pretty much a matter-
of the environment. There are limitations: There 
are retarded children who do not learn at the same 
speed. You accept these and deal with them as you 
can. Even so they can do much more than most 
people think they can. 
I-think there are important differences among 
people. I think it's absurd to suppose that 
everyone can profit from a Yale education. and 
l 



**Title: [Untitled]**
**Author: [B.F. Skinner]**
**Page number(s): [7, 15]**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The New Journal, November 1979 
it's absurd to suppose that everyone could ·be a 
concert pianist. I couldn't be. I can't memorize 
music. My eyes have gone bad and I can't read 
music. Since I can't memorize, I can't play and it's 
a great tragedy to me. There's no way in which I 
could ever have, no matter how I had been 
trained as a child. 

I don't feel inferior. I don't feel I should be 
bussed to another school. I don't resent being 
unequal. I wish I could do it, but I do other 
things. 

Any prejudice against any group-blacks, 
Asians, homosexuals-is very unfortunate. Youjudge 
people in terms of their ability and what they can 
contribute. But to do the other thing around-to 
say you ought to give them an exceptional 
chance-is the same principle. You are again 
showing some kind of prejudice. This is the Bakke 
case. I haven't made up my mind on that. 

The only strong issue that I do anything 
about-and it's just a question of where I put my 
United Fund money instead of the United 
Fund-is population. I think the great problem in 
the world today is overpopulation. 

These Boat People: that's a population problem. 
I see no alternative to a lifeboat ethic on this. You 
cannot sink the boat because you felt unhappy 
about cracking someone's knuckles when he grabs 
onto the ed~e. 

My book Beyond Freedom and Dignity, 
came at the watershed between the huge 
individualism of the sixties and the tapering 
of that in the seventies. We must look to the 
future of the species and meanwhile the 
future ways of life which we think are 
promising ways of life with respect to 
preserving the species. 

That's the point of the work 'beyond' in my 
title. I wasn't saying "down with freedom and 
down with dignity." I want people to feel 
freer than ever before, to have a sense of 
dignity and a sense of achievement. 

DW Was it intended os a provocative title? 
BFS Yes. It may have been a mistake, I 
don't know. It sold a lot of books. Actually I 
was calling it "Freedom and Dignity" right up 
until I sent it off to the publishers, and my 
editor then said, "Look, when you get 
through with this, it isn't really freedom and 
dignity we're talking about," and I said, 
"Let's call it Beyond Freedom and Dignity." 

I was thinking of Nietzsche's Beyond Good 
and /!:vi/ and Freud's IJeyond the Pleasure 
Principle. So 'beyond • got in there and it did 
cause trouble, but it also pulled people up 
short so they started to think about this 
issue. 

I am really very unhappy about the 
extension of the notion of individual right at 
the present time.You aren't born with rights. 
You're born with the power to get what you can 
and defend yourself. When you use "rights" 
you're talking about really what you can do. You 
organize and strengthen the workers against 
management and capital and you create rights. 
There is no such thing as a "right," it doesn't 
exist, it has no physical dimensions at all. It has to 
do with the way people control each other and 
particularly the countercontrols of people who are 
controlling in undesirable ways. 

People talk about the rights of animals now; the 
next thing is going to be the rights of plants. 
breakfast. Now, someone's going to say, "Ah, but 
these people have a right to food, to clothing, to 
privacy, to entertainment. You can't take those 
7 
You aren't hom with rights. You're born with the 
power to get what you can and defend yourself. 
rights away to use them as reinforcers." The 
American Civil Liberties Union is after this. 
They're tryng to establish the principle that 
anything that a retarded or a psychotic person or a 
prisoner has had the right to cannot be taken away 
from him to use as a reinforcer. 

Now what does that right mean? Why does a 
prisoner have any rights? You can work up a lot 
of rhetoric for this. You must help the helpless but 
if any person can help themself, he or she must be 
required to do so. A home for retarded people 
which was entirely self-supporting would be ideal. 

DW Is it compatible with your analysis in Verbal 
Behavior to suppose that some gromotico/ 
structures ore innate? 
BFS No. You can't plead genetic sources unless 
you can give some potent reason how they could 
have arisen. People have been speaking languages 
only for, let us say twenty thousand years. Now, 
how important to the survival of the individual to 
breeding age is speaking grammaticaJly? In a few 
generations you can develop resistance to a 
disease-that's crucial. But there is nothing very 
crucial about speaking either broken English or 
good English. 

I think Chomsky backed down on this and said, 
"Well, grammar isn't exactly verbal. It's other 
intellectual things which have had a chance to 
develop before we're talking about the actual 
linguistic environment." 

The argument that all languages have some 
common features and that, therefore, there must 
be some structural principle due to the genetics of 
the individual, is wrong. The innate grammatical 
rules are due to the fact that all languages serve 
similiar functions. In every language people caJl 
the other person by name: "Ah, vocatives." They 
you name the principles and turn arounu ana 
explain the behavior. If, for example, you glimpse 
a circle and it's broken, but you see it as a whole 
circle, that's called 'closure' or 'pregnance' or 
something. Then you say, "Why do you see it that 
way?" "Oh; because of pregnancel" This is just 
double talk. You can do the same thing with 
language. You can extract grammatical principles, 
as the Greeks did when they frrst discovered 
grammar, and you say, "Well, why do people 
speak grammaticaJly? Because they know these 
principles." That's not true. 

If I have a dog I can teach the dog to catch a 
ball or a frisbee. Now this does not mean that the 
dog has deduced the laws of trajectories. Yet he 
acts as if he knew the rules. People speak 
grammaticaJly who don't know the rules. The 
ordinary Frenchman doesn't even know how to 
break the thing up into words. After you extract 
the rules then you can speak according to the 
rules. 

DW So how· do you explain the universality of 
those difficult transformations? · 
BFS I don't know this transformation business at 
all. I would have to take them one by one, I 
suppose, and make a guess as to the common 
features of the verbal environment that would 
make this possible. 

DW Hove you revised your views on physiology? 
BFS I am not anti-psysiological. Many people 
misunderstood me on this. I think it's a fine field 
and an important field. 

The textbook doesn't come with the baby 
name objects: "Ah, nouns." They talk about 
action: "Ah, verbs." They ask questions: "Ah, 
the interrogative." They express wishes: "Ah, the 
optative." All languages are used for certain 
practical purposes and hence they all have certain 
common features. Not because they are part of the 
genetic endowment but because they are part of 
the verbal environment. 

D W 
There ore certain transformations, common 
td all languages, that seem to defy explanations of 
this kind, for instance. the rule that 'which • clause 
cannot be moved to some positions where they 
seem to make sense. How do you deal with these? 
BFS Chomsky is of course a structuralist. This · 
all goes back to Roman Jakobson, Levi-Strauss 
and linguistics and anthropology. 

Jakobson himself has done the most absurd 
thing in analyzing structure. He's taken a 
Shakespeare sonnet and he talks about the 
What I was objecting to was the psysiology 
which is merely inferences from behavior, as if you 
could tum around and use this to explain the 
behavior. It throws light on relationship between 
psysiology and behavior, yes. 

Does psysiology provide hypotheses about 
behavior, os in Garcia's experiments? 
{Garcio.showed that rots will refuse to eat food of 
certain color if they ore i"odioted 4-6 hours after 
eating that food.) 
BFS That is not reinforcement, it is punishment. 
It works precisely as I analyzed punishment. It 
doesn't suppress it, it gives you reasons to get 
apy from it. 
--
Im' Haven't we used physiology to produce on 
hypothesis? 
There is not a world of experience. There is a world, 
BFS But you see, we don't know anything about 
the physiology. All we know is the facts. 

"Something to do with avoiding poison" is an 
appeal to genetics rather than to physiology. 

I would like to see more and more physiology 
done. When someone tells me what's going on 
inside my pigeon I 'II be delighted to hear about it. 
But at the moment I don't know and moreover it's 
going to be harder to fmd out than it is about the 
behavior. 

and there's behavior with respect to that world. 
going to say 
we 
eat 
carrots. I've thought of writing an article, 
"Libertas Nervosa." We've gotten rid of lots of 
the infringements on our freedom that we really 
object to, but we're going on and on. We resent 
every kind of control including those that will keep 
us alive just as the anorexia nervosa case goes 
right o~ down through the normal weight, dying a 
matchstick figure. 

In my own field there has been some work, 
some good and some bad, in hospitals for the 
psychotic and retarded, and in prisons, to use 
positive reinforcement rather than the usual 
'centripedal flow' when you get to the middle and 
the 'centrifugal flow' when you get to the end. Of 
course, every sonnet is centripedal and centrifugal. 
But it's all done (by Jakobson) in terms of that 
particular sonnet. 

The Gestalt Psychologists did this many years 
ago. You discover some structural principles, then 



I don't know of any features of behavior that I 
now understand more clearly because someone has 
told me about the physiology. 

Are there logical problems in explaining 
behavior by events at another level of description. 
like physiology? 
BFS It would be very awkward to do it that way. 
Even though we now know a good deal about 
genetics, you don't really breed a racehorse by 
examining the DNA. you would take the records 
continu~ on page fiftHn 



**Title: I'll Take Manhattan**
**Author: Eleanor Roberts**
**Page number(s): [8]**

s 
I'll Take Manhattan 
-Eleanor Roberts 
About New York, Joan Didion wrote that 
"those days before I knew the names of all the 
bridges were happier than the ones that came 
later.'' After a year, I still can't tell the 
Triborough from the George Washington. I guess 
that's good. Neither have I ever gone to the Frick, 
MOMA, or the Bronx Zoo, sins of omission so 
shaming I bsually avoid mentioning them. But this 
is about life after Yale, and the untumed comers 
of the city. 

Once you've graduated, New Haven is a lot 
farther away from New York than the all-too-
familiar Conrail for the distance is compounded by 
the feeling that once you've left, you really 
oughn't go back and hang around. Looks like you 
can't make it back from Mother Yale. 

Mother Yale bas quite a stronghold in the city,• 
anyway-few weeks go by without an encounter 
on the street, the subway a shop. 

"Didn't you go to Yale?" Well, yes, but right 
now I'm trying to decide if these plastic wrapped 
tomatoes are ripe. One does run into alot of Yalies 
in New York, doesn't one? 

"Have you been up to New Haven lately?" not 
since graduation. Except once to pick up some 
dry cleaning. 

I forgot to pick up my dry-cleaning in New 
York, too, which means not much has changed, 
right? 

It takes a while for the intellectual and 
emotional sediment to settle after the flurry of 
finals, graduation, moving, job hunting. No doubt 
this process of precipitation is easier for some than 
for others; certainly it's simplified if you know 
what you want, what brought you to New York, 
and where you'll go next. It takes even longer to 
have a feeling of digesting Yale. Heartburn. 
Bluebooks. Yearbooks if it's really bad and 
happens to be raining. 

Yet, my Yale education is paying off. I'm still 
paying Yale off, too, will be for about twenty 
years. But a heartening number of the new old 
Blues I know have found work in their beloved 
humanities. 

Should I update my resume? 

There's some difficulty in reconciling yourself to 
the idea that you're here for awhile, with a job, 
probably a lease, some friends, and it might be 
okay, even a good idea, to go ahead and buy some 
plates, a bed, curtains. After all, taking off for 
parts unknown isn't really imminent, at least not 
on the salary of an editioral assistant. 

Ab, that's a treasured euphemism-the name? 
everything and nothing. Most of all it means the 
landlady won't get the rent until next week. If you 
are planning to be an editorial assistant, choose 
your landlady carefully. 

Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, let me count the 
days. La vie quotidienne can be quite a shock 
after those happy golden bygone days. At Frrst you 
just go home and sleep after work, but eventually 
stamina and even affection for office routine 
develop. The worst of times generates the best of 
resigned camaraderie. And then we read statistics 
on the unemployed, the underemployed, and the 
Boat People, and count our blessings. Moreover 
most of us like to work, just not at 9 a.m. And 
anyway we can expect to move on. Nooethdcss I 
Fmd myxlf avoidina acquaintances in Citibank's 
training JX'Oil1Uil, aJt.bougb I reason that I'm 
serving a comparable apprenticeship-which I 
much prefer to sentencing myself to two years of 
law school-it's much harder to predict what I'll 
have to show for it. (They don't give diplomas in 
the school of hard knocks.) 

· 
"At least we don't have to worry about getting 
irred," said a woman (Harvard, '78) I work with. 
"Slaves have to be sold." 

A standard job in a standard way in the place of 
your dreams is nevertheless a standard job, nine to 
five, 60 wpm, withholding taxes of a criminal 
nature, and take home wages heading straight into 
your landlady's fist. (1'11 bet her apartment is 
warmer than mine.) There are weeks when you live 
for Friday at 5:00, and hate yourself for it. But 
stiff upper lip, you're a career woman now, don't 
call home collect and for god's sake pay the Con 
Ed bill on time for once. 

home by taxi from their apartments. 

In •COmpensation., however, New York 
neighbors are seldom dull. I have an Intense 
Young Writer from Atlanta downstairs-shades of 
Capote, although Holly Golightly moved out just 
before I got here. Across the hall lives a woman 
who has withdrawn into the spaces of insanity: she 
doesn't go out of her apartment. has her JUOCeries 
(veal cutlets and canned peas) delivered, gets 
everything else by mail (piles of strange packages 
in the downstairs hall), and plays a gruesomely out 
of tune piano at all hours. I suppose she doesn't 
qualify as a true New York crazy, though, since 
she doesn't rant or carry bags around. At least not 
yet. Unable to approach her, I suffer from a 
(probably misplaced) case of sympathy. 

Anyway, it really isn't any colder in my 
apartment than it was in my single last year. And 
there's a great deal of comfort to be found in 
every Sunday night not spent in CCL. 

Cold weather, at any rate, ought to decimate the 
roach population in my kitchen. Sprays don't do 
much. The super does less. Many people here have 
worse New York horror stories to tell-the girl 
who gets electric bills for hundreds of dollars every 
month, though she lives by herself in one room. 
She's ready to blow up the computer, but at least 
they haven't forced her to pay the bill (now in the 
thousands). Then of course there are the weird 
things that happen on the subway, multiple locks 
on the doors. I heard of a Yalie who was mugged, 
and said, frankly, in the face of a knife, "I'm 
sorry, I only have enough money to get by for this 
week." It worked. 

~ 
Trying to find a place to live in New York is a 
nightmare for which standing in line at Closed 
Reserve in December does not prepare you. I 
asked a friend who is currently looking for an 
apartment to say something funny I could use in 
this piece. "There's nothing funny about looking 
for an apartment," she said. Do not expect much 
help from the legion of agents sprung up in a tight 
market; tell everyone you know and as many 
people whom you don't know who will listen to 
you that you are house hunting. And wait. 

Waiting in line is a way of life here-just 
remindyourselfthat it's not as bad as Russia and 
step right up. Because there are so many lines to 
choose from in New York, one develops decided 
tastes in the 'queues' one Fmds worth standing in. 
I personally refuse to stand in line for two hours 
to see a movie (the entire state of Idaho saw 
"Manhattan" before me), or at the hosiery 
counter at Saks. (This saves me a lot of money.) 
My favorite line is at the bank on Friday at lunch. 
Lunch is the New York power meal, as testified 
by all the mavens at the Four Seasons, 21 Club, 
and other places so exclusive I haven't even heard 
of them. (There is a sign in a dining room of the -
- -- ---
-- ---
---
Harvard Club which reads; "An excessive display 
of business papers is prohibited.") One· of the Frrst 
New York expressions you learn is "Let's.have · 
lunch sometime.'' Among non-business 
acquaintances, this phrase leads to meetings with 
people who insist on eating yogurt, to whom you 
have nothing to say across the gap which wasn't 
there the last time you met, in New Haven. Just as 
frequently it simply means, "Let's not have lunch 
sometime. We have nothing to say to each other." 

Sad but true, it requires lots more energy to 
keep up With people in New York than it does in 
New Haven, where a walk across Cross Campus 
brings you to their door. You end up streamlining 
your list of close friends when it costs"SS.OO to get 

Most of the people I know here go out for 
breakfast on the weekends, I think mainly because 
none of us has his own toaster; and it just doesn't 
taste the same if you make it in the oven. I can't 
bring myself to buy a toaster-they're too 
specialized a symbol of domesticity. Never having 
braved the wilds of off-campus life at Yale I have 
found the adjustment to self-sufficiency arduous at 
times. I've stopped eating meat, not out of high 
motives on behalf of innocent cattle, but because it 
is too much trouble, and too expensive. Eggs can 
be eaten in a surprising number of ways. Olive oil 
comes in attractive tins, sponges in day-glo colors. 
Care packages from home are more and more 
infrequent, which is just as W$!ll, I'm a grown-up 
now, after all. Toaster or no. 

Nobody ever said it was going to be easy. The 
suburbs, now, the suburbs are easy. If you live in 
the suburbs, you have a toaster. But the work you 
put into simply living day to day in Manhattan is 
repaid day to day, if you're looking. At its best, 
the city of Broadway is itself something of a 
musical comedy. I wouldn't even be particularly 
surprised, that someone should burst into song and 
a tap dance routine on the comer of Fifth A venue 
and Fifty-Seventh Street. It might even seem a 
sensible reaction, with Indian Summer shining, and 
the mannequins wearing veiled hats and high-
heeled pumps. It would have to be a song about 
love or youth, or New York itself, which has to do 
with both tbose things. Joyful excess-the 
concentration of power and wealth here is heady 
enough to live on (vicariously?) for weeks at a 
time. 

However, still I think I'd like to go to the 
Harvard game this year, and be rowdy at the Bowl . 
again. I thought I'd avoid returning to New Haven 
. 1rt .. J 
' -
--- ---
--- ,.., 
until l could go back to a place once more 
unfamiliar, and see it with new, New York eyes. 
Perhaps that can never happen anyway: it will 
probably never be really new again. More.like 
discovering money in an oid jacket pocket: it's not 
serious money, it's already been spent, and come 
back to you again, free, and you have to go out 
and spend it quickly and heedlessly on something 
unplanned. The currency of New Haven is 
dormant in some pocket, some New York closet; 
it's been spent, but it will come back, free. 
Ektlnor R~ 
78. 11 f~ 
Editor-ilr<lrie/ of 
The New Journal, CIITFWIIIy worb for Conde 
NtJSt PllblictltioltS. 



**Title: The Roach in the Big Apple**
**Author: Martha Hollander**
**Page number(s): [9]**

9 
They are Everywhere persistent insect-until I remembered that in the 
confusion I'd forgotten to get rid of it. For all I 
knew, it was still there on the corner of the pillow, 
testing out its slimy feelers and guaranteeing 
me-no, plotting for me-a dose of infectious 
plaGUe. I'd been driven from my own room even 
with the apartment immaculately clean. They can 
get in anyway. 

strength. One application of Raid in an afternoon 
will result in as many as hundred corpses littering 
the apartment, and although both produce the 
same nauseating crunch when stepped on, a live 
cockroach that can scuttle out of the way is 
infinitely preferable to a dead one. Boric acid, in 
fact, is the most effective weapon of all. Rather 
than attempting the impossible clean murder, it 
simply banishes the roaches for good, driving them 
away to the neighbors• apartment with a . 
mysterious and disagreeable chemical. Most people 
discover boric acid from hearsay-it's a little too 
weird to be advertised publicly as a roach 
repellent-and discover to their delight that this 
rather common household feature is capable, in 
great enou~h quantities, of working a small 
miracle. Last summer, in a somewhat cynical 
response to what we'd dismissed as an old wive's 
tale, my roommate and I decided to try it. I 
bought the largest jar of boric acic I could find 
(carefully avoiding the eye of the pharmacist, who 
evidently was vastly amused) and poured spoonfuls 
of it all over the apartment. Pretty soon there was 
a thin trail of white powder lining the floors, and 
The Roach in the Big Apple. 
-Martha Hollander 
Without a doubt the most traditional, if not 
legendary, aspect of apartment life in New York is 
the cockroach problem. Learning to live with 
cockroaches should by no means be at the top of 
one's priorities, at lenst nui: before doublelocking 
the doors or fmding out where to put the garbage 
once a week, but it is nonetheless an ongoing 
process: by turns a tedious chore, an outright 
battle or even a source of great personal agony, 
very much like one's relationship with the 
landlord. In fact, the very mention of the word 
"cockroach .. evokes a series of hard-and-fast 
images associated exclusiv~Cw Ymk; 
though it's hardly the only city with this problem 
many of its inhabitants, with true urban 
' 
provincialism, are ready to swear that it is or 
might as well be. No matter how slick and modern 
the apartment (houses don't count really), no 
matter how beautiful the surrounding 
neighborhood, the cockroaches will be there. 

I, for one hate cockroaches. I hate all insects 
with a passion bordering on paranoia, but 
cockroaches are the worst offenders. Even though 
I consider myself a hardened city-dweller in other 
respects (l think nothing, for example, of the 
groggy dope-pushers who sleep on my front 
stoop), roaches are anathema, my downfall. The 
frrst time I ever saw one was my first summer in 
New York; I was an innocent eight-year-old, fresh 
from an idyllic life in the suburbs of southern 
England and quite unprepared for the change. 

Hanging out around in the kitchen one bright 
sunny day I caught sight of a small brown spot 
shaped a little like a cigar that suddenly darted 
across the counter-a UFO in miniature and twice 
as menacing. "Ugh, what's that?" I screamed. 
"A cockroach," said my mother matter-of-factly, 
disengaging me from the fold of her skirt where 
I'd hidden in terror. "They live here too." "You 
mean there's more than one?" She nodded and 
went on chopping vegetables, apparently unaware 
of the catastrophe I'd discovered only too quickly. 
There were lots of them. They could reproduce. 
And they lived here t,po. Suddenly I seemed to see 
them everywhere, on the walls, in the drain along 
the moldings, under the furniture. It was a severe 
culture-shock from which I never quite recovered, 
,/81? 
it left the glamorous image of my home town 
permanently tainted. 

Objectively speaking, if that's possible when 
dealing with such a sensitive subject-1 suppose 
there's nothing really so awful about them; they 
are harmless enough little things who dully mind 
their own business, and as long as they aren't 
mistaken for grease-spots or stray Brazil nuts 
everything can be relatively peaceful. The real 
trouble comes in realizing that their presence 
implies contamination. Once the idea that 
cockroaches mean dirt comes to mind. it's 
impossible to forget, and immediately unbearable 
filth, fatal disease and eventual immersion in a 
quivering horde of beetles seem distinct and 
awesome possibilities. A single cockroach in the 
bathroom, bedroom, or anywhere other than the 
kitchen is the frrst sign of inexorable decay: you 
know your apartment is going to seed and 
presuDtably you will soon follow. The frrst time I 
found o~e in my bed I Jet out a tin-whistle shriek, 
fled to my roommate's spare cot and pulled the 
covers up in a protective cocoon. I was safe and 
sound, free 'from the threat of even the most 

The other chief reason for the ugly mystique of 
cockroaches is that they're rather difficult to kill. 
Casual swatting with a rolled-up newspaper may 
work fme for mosquitoes and big flies, but not for 
cockroaches: they show a remarkable and 
frightening ability to survive even the most 
powerful blows. Flushing them in the ·toilet after 
wrapping them gingerly in tissue paper is also a 
bad idea because, horribly, they just crawl out 
again. I made this mistake once and for weeks was 
tortured with visions of an entire roach-colony 
living in the sewer pipes, a dark, wet Utopia of 
insects underneath the city rather like the mythical 
heaps of it were dumped liberally behing the 
albino crocodiles said to inhabit the subway-tracks. 
kitchen sink. The apartment.was an upper West 
The only natural method, as it were, is to step on 
side slum and the powder made it look even more 
them until their shells give a bloodcurdling 
decrepit, but we told everyone that it represented 
crack-remember always to wear thick shoes when 
"Squalid chic"-a vaguely punk thing like our 
doing this-and it requires great fortitude. A quick 
dog~ed collection of Talking Heads and The 
stamp may do no good; the roach will only be 
Jam records, our refrigerator that had long since 
stunned and can still scurry away out of sight 
ceased to work, and the usual.naked light bulbs. 
while you nurse your smarting foot. Instead the 
The visitors were terribly impressed; we tried not 
fatal step must be slow, subtle, and grinding, like 
to step in the powder or get it in our food, and 
pounding up a spice, and must thoroughly wring 
two weeks later every single cockroach had 
out the creature's life. It's very disgusting. Only 
vanished. 

Apart from the telltale white line of boric acid 
users, the symptoms of the cockroach problem, or 
at least a cockroach-sighting, are generally 
manifested in one's personal style. Some scream 
and run, others look grim, roll up their sletves and 
search (foolishly) for a rolled-up newspaper, and a 
few real heroes crush the insect with their very 
fmgers without a pause in the conversation. My 
own tendency is to stand in a comer quaking and 
gibbering until someone elso takes care of it. In 
the meantime, the roaches go right on living there 
too, exploring and reproducing. "You fool," my 
patient roommate once said to me, "don't you 
know what happens if you don't kill cockroaches? 
They crawl behind the stove and make little 
cockroaches." If they stay away from motels, I 
thought, hanging my head in shame; yet nothing· 
would compel me to lift a fmger. I could 
remember a high-school literature class all too 
well, a deeply embarassing experience ever since 
the frrst day when I fainted at p~ one of Kafka's 
metamorphosis. Was Kafka, perhaps, more 
frightened than I? 

They are SO revolting that it's hard to compare 
them accurately with anything else. In a sense, I 
suppose, they are like the most tenacious of 
unwelcome house-guests: they always get to the 
kitchen before you do, frrst thing in the morning; 
they stubbornly ignore hints about leaving some 
day; they scurry away in guilt if you catch them 
where they shouldn't be; then suddenly they tum 
familiar, gross and aggressive and crawl into bed 
with you. Above all, to those who aren't afflicted 
with my particular phobia, they make life irritating 
rather than tragic, like a chronic dull pain for 
which there simply isn't a cure. There are better 
topics of conversation, better ways of spending a 
quiet Sunday v,ftemoon than shuffling around on 
all fours, br~dishing an old shoe and shouting, 
"All right, you nasty little buggers, come on out." 

Yet so much of living in New York, eSpeclally in 
the summer, involves just that: we sit about in the 
evening, moodily nursing our third mug of Jack 
Daniels (can't afford shot-glasses), and chatter 
seriously, far too seriously, about our jobs, our 
apartments, very occasionally our senior essays, 
who's sleeping with wbom, and our cockroaches. 
Clearly, there's eno~gh as it is to madden us-why 
not simply eliminate the latter? 


**Title: Dress Well and be For Five Good Reasons**
**Author:  (No author specified)**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
10 
The New Journal, November 1979 
Dress Well and bee
For Five Good Reasons 
SCHOOL PRIDE 
Who says smart girls can't 
be beautiful and well-dressed? Lindsay McCrum 
insists they can be. For spending a few quiet 
moments drinking tea and perusing the latest 
Elizabethan Club acquisition, Lindsay likes to 
wear "something long and sparkly: What a great 
thing for our school, if the girls could be visual 
knock-outs, like the buildings." Ms. McCrum 
continues, "Some people may think its snooty, but 
for me, personaJly, it's a way of showing how 
proud I am of this school." 

I'M FEMININE 
"Retaining my 'woman's 
point of view' isn't easy here, I don't care if the 
school is called Mother Yale, •' says Kacey Clagett, 
"that's why I often wear dresses when I come for 
an evening in the Computer Center." Here Kacey 
is shown repairing Gandalf (a computer) and 
wearing roses, silk, and ruffles, at the same time. 
She "came out" in the dress, and her mother 
shortened it for her. 

HELPS ME THINK 
"There's nothing like 
wearing black to the stacks to really psych me up 
for Nietzsche," says Evita Saks, Yale College 
Junior. "I usually study on the 7th floor, York 
Street side, so I can also keep my eye on the action
at Toad's Place." Eva has written 30 papers (and 
none of them were Pass-Fail) in her sophisticated 
outfit of black satin and pearls. She is currently 
planning her senior essay wardrobe. 

VISUAL HAPPINESS 
"If I could have my 
way, badly dressed people would not even be 
allowed into art galleries," says Ella King Torrey, 
Scholar of the House in Art History. "Other 
people's insensitivity to form, line, and color really 
gets on my nerves." Like many scholars in her 
field, Ella believes that Picasso had an innate and 
very special talent for painting. For touching up 
Yale's Collection of Modem Masters she likes to 
wear " a wool hat, but nothing fancy." 

ATTRACI'S mGH CLASS GUYS 
After 
a long day of trying to get a good education, 
there's nothing more relaxing than slipping into a 
tasteful nightgown. Add a tittle perfume and you 
might get invited to a Quaaludes and Sex Party at 
Skull & Bones. "There's usually a fight first, to 
see who gets the President Taft Memorabilia 
Bedroom, but they never hit the girls. The guys are
just the coolest," says Betzyna. "I like to go on 
Monday nights, after Mory's." 


**Title: Good Looking**
**Page number(s): 11**

11 
Good Looking


**Is Paris Burning?**
**Author: J.D. McClatchy**
**Page number(s): 14**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The New Journal, November 1979 
Is Paris Burning? 
-J.D. McClatchy 
The Joy of Paris, by Bernard Hermann. 
The Vendome Press. 160 pp. $17.95. 
The Great Houses of Paris, by Claude Fregnac 
and Wayne Andrews. The Vendome Press. 280 pp. 
$50. 
If you continue to be a very good American, 
we're told you'll go to Paris when you die. In the 
meanwhile for those who fmd that too high a price 
(though it's not much steeper than the combined 
cost of the two books here under review), there are 
memories: those who've visited that greatest of 
capital cities have their own; those who haven't 
have other people's. One prefers Proust or Colette, 
but photographs-once defined by Robert de 
Montesquiou as "mirrors with memories"- will 
occasionally do. These two picture-books-so 
contrary in many ways, the one just Grub Street 
junk food, the other a lavish and learned Quality 
Item-serve both sorts of people. The Joy of Paris 
(by the way, whom do we blame-poor old Irma 
Rombauer?-for kicking off the craze for "Joy-
of" titles?) is for those who don't know Paris; The 
Great Houses of Paris is for those who know it 
well enough to have envied those special places 
.One lsn 't Permitted To Visit. 


The heart sinks when you first open The Joy of 
Paris. To begin with, there's-what! another?!-a 
shot of the Arc de Triomphe. (If there were 
custard pies made to be thrown at 
monuments ... ) Then, worse yet, there's the start 
of the flimsy, interfacing text, whose single merit is 
its brevity. It is an odious example of what must 
be called brochurese. For instance: 
"Let yourself go. Don't be afraid to be 
fanciful. Paris is the stuff dreams are made 
of. That is what Paris is there for. In Paris 
everything is 'fou, fou, fou.' Mad, wild, 
crazy. Dream a little of Paris. Close your eyes 
and pretend you don't know the 'real' Paris 
exists. Close your eyes and dream of that 
'other' Paris. It's an essential antidote to the 
aggressive bustle which makes Paris Paris. 
Start with a stereotype like Pia f. " 

Okay, my eyes are closed. Now, take that Piaf 
record off the stereotype. Put on, oh, the Faure! 
piano quartet; it has the same delicious 
sentimentality, but without the wide eyes and hot 
flashes. Okay, now show me Mr. Hermann's 
photographs. 

Ah, but one has seen them before. The polite 
term used to be "calendar art." Wide-angle 
gimmkks hanging from the Eiffel Tower, 
glamorous women at the racetrack lounging in the 
sumptuous insouciance of fashion magazine poses, 
lots of plumage and armor, the chorus line at the 
Folies, and the usual Cartier-Bresson imitations: 
old men at boules, widows in black peering out of 
19th-century storefronts, kids scuffling in the 
streets as pigeons flutter up toward ... why, 
toward "elusive, enigmatic Paris, city of a million 
iUusions." Fou, fou, fou-y. 

What a French intellectual would style as 
Hermann's image-repertoire is a very summery and 
prettily peopled Paris indeed. There is none of the 
city's severe beauty, that oyster-shell gray of 
winter. And most of his photographs include 
people, from the standard entwined couples on the 
quais, to a new but entirely appropriate touch, 
Japanese tourists. It is as if Hermann needed to 
domesticate and ingratiate his views. Rarely does 
he scramble our stale expectations, but he does 
have a good eye for crowds, and finds several 
striking portraits. (My favorite is of butchers 
unJoading sides of beef from a truck; they are 
burly men, and in their bloody cowls resemble 
nothing so much as Rodin's statue of Balzac.) 

Hermann's temperament is strictly official. His 
camera never probes. it only soothes. There is no 
poverty. only the picturesque. No dullness, 
disgrace, kinkiness. 1be fabled sensuousness of the 
French is emptied of all its allure by being made to 
look either innocent or gaudy. Institutions-from 
the family to the museum, Maxim's to the 
Academie- prevail. 

And yet ... The extent to which we indulge 
pictures of this sort-which are like very smart 
slides of someone else's trip-is the extent to 
which everyone has his own view of Paris and 
enjoys comparing remembered and realized scenes. 
The advantage the mind claims over the eye is that 
it can summon back sensations, and many of one's 
deepest, most evocative and eloquent memories of 
Paris could never be caught in a photograph. The 
smell of espresso and cheap caporal tobacco and 
pissoirs. The sound of someone reciting 
Baudelaire's "Recueillment. " The taste of be/on 
oysters and old chevre and a great fat Burgundy. 
The pleasant after-effect of Bernard Hermann's 
pictures is that they start up one's own magic 
lantern. 

How refreshing and exciting, then, to tum to 
The Great Houses of Paris, which puts the 
"civilization" back into the city. Hermann gives us 
an ''unreal" Paris, cossetted and contrived. 
Frc!gnac and Andrews remind us that 
"contrivance" literally designates an assembly of 
tropes-figures no less real for being highly 
imaginative, wealthy with the rhetoric of the grand 
gesture and rich display. 

The decorative arts have always held a high 
place in French culture, but we have not always 
tried to understand fully their function and 
meaning. Now, with the writings of Roland 
Barthes and the increasing refinement of a system 
of interpretation based on linguistic science but 
applicable to non-verbal media, when we confront 
classic houses and interiors we can decipher them, 
no longer simply inspecting them. We now 
approach these great civic residences, most of them 
state-owned, in an almost "anthropological" 
spirit. Tell us, we say to them, what it was to live 
here then, to be those first inhabitants, to think 
their thoughts. 

It is impossible, for example, to leaf through 
The Great Houses of Paris without speculating on 
the role played by ornament in the furnishings and 
interior spaces of 17th and 18th-century houses. 
Ornament seems to have been a means of 
conferring existence on objects. of proving their 
importance by making a small arena of iconic 
significance out of a medallioned wall panel, say, 
or the fluted leg of a writing desk. In French 
neoclassical decoration, objects in wood, porcelain, 
or glass apparently will be legible. or will not be at 
all. The book inspires-or rather, commands--
admiration for these objects. 

A few technical matters: the book is handsomely 
produced. with sharp photographs in color and in 
black~d-white printed on hiJUl-gloss paP.Cr. 

Nearly all the photographs are excellent; they are 
telling and carefully composed. The adjunct text, 
though not distinguished in its writerly qualities. is 
rich in historical and cultural detail. It tells much 
of what is known about the frrst residents of these 
houses, as well as non-technicalJy, ·the particular 
virtues of each-larger coverage, probably, than 
most who lift this book from its place on the 
coffee-table will actually require. 

I have visited about a quarter of the houses 
pictured. Some are now museums, others visitable 
only on certain days and with a special guide, and 
others, private houses or offices of state, generally 
closed to the public. To stroll through the book, 
then, is to oscillate between the symmetrical shocks 
of recollection and surprise. It is to see gorgeous 
pictures of the Hotel de Soubise or Hotel Lauzun. 
whose interiors have the jewel-like perfection of 
Faberge boxes, and to reflect that these are, royal 
palaces aside, the most beautiful houses extant 
from the 17th century. At least until I came upon 
pictures of the Hotel Lambert, in which the Baron 
Guy de Rothschild lived privately and which I have 
never visited. 

The house is one of Le Vau's most harmonious 
designs, combining strength, complexity, and 
refmement. The interiors are awe-inspiring. For 
example, the library, so filled with treasurable 
books and so encrusted with ormolu as to resemble 
itself a preciously bound volume, is the setting for 
paintings such as lngres's portrait of Betty de 
Rothschild, and-can it be?-Vermeer's The 
Astronomer. This painting is listed in catalogues 
always under the rubric, "Private collection, 
Paris." The photograph caption here expressly 
makes no mention of the painting, so that for a 
moment one can speculate that it is only a copy; 
but after a further scansion of the room, and of 
the other rooms pictured, one abandons, with a 
gulp, that hypothesis. 

The Hotel de Biron will bring back fond 
memories to those who think of it primarily as the 
Musc!e Rodin, with its collection of that puzzling 
sculptor's vulgar but grand work; considered as 
architectural achievement, and with its huge 
garden and reflecting pool, it would merit a visit 
even without the collection. (Indeed, I felt a twinge 
of envy for an older friend of mine, a lady who 
lived there briefly in the first decade of this 
century, when she was a schoolgirl and it was a 
Convent of the Sacred Heart.) As for sculpture, 
the Hotel de Rohan with its stupendous "Horses 
of the Sun," a pediment carved by the sculptor 
Robert Le Lorrain in the early 18th century and 
one of the few pedimental groups that can be 
placed without scandal beside the Elgin marbles, is 
equally worth the effort of seeking in the Marais 
quarter.· 

Oh, but one could go on-on to the Hotel 
Matignon and the Elysc!e Palace-but they defy 
any easier description than a photograph confers. 
Taken as a whole, these great houses of France at 
the pinnacle of its cultural achievement must be 
considered without rival-except perhaps for the 
imperial Japanese residences at Katsura, built 
within a diametrically opposed aesthetic of 
bareness and plainness. In them, man is presented 
as subordinate to a vaster and ftnally ungraspable 
nature. In the sumptuous houses of Paris, man is 
enthroned. lord of the earth and master of the 
salon, possessor of Ideas nowhere to be found in 
nature, except where the hand of artifice has 
embodied them. 


**Skinner continued from page seven**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 15**

Skinner continued from page seven 
. at ~e track, if that's !h~ horse you pay to have 
SCTVIce your mare. This IS a pure breeding 
experiment. We now know a lot about why they 
work but that doesn't give us a practice. If, 
eventually. they start finding a couple of genes in 
the chr~mosomes of a horse that have something 
t~ do With speed, and they start fiddling around 
w1th those genes, then you've got something. We 
haven :t got there even in genetics, let alone 
bebav1or. 

DW Would it be incorrect to speak of a cau$al 
relationship between a gene and a behavior even if 
there were 
known correlation between them? 

BFS If you have a mare and you say: "I want 
this mated to a Spectacular Bid and I want to pay 
$50,000 for it," and someone says, "Why are you 
doing that?", and you say, "Well, there's a little 
gene somewhere . . . " 

DW So~our objection isn't a philosophicol 
objection about mixing ontological levels? 

BFS No. What I object to is a phony physiology, 
like .. "Your nerves are on edge." People still say 
things lilce that. 


· 

DW You mention tlult Bertrand Russell 
irifluenced W>Ur work. 

BFS 
He was .~ popularizer. Principia 
Matltematica, I think is still accepted, though .it 
should be by now. He did that over seventy years 
ago. It should have been changed by now. 
Wittgenstein, Russell, the logical positivists, all 
of those people: I never went very far with them 
really. Rusself, was a prestigious person. I read his 
review of Ogden Richard's The Meaning of 
Meaning, and be ended it by saying, "The reader 
will see that I have been enormously influenced by 
Dr. Watson, whose recent book Behaviourism I 
regard as massively impressive." Well, that was all 
I n~ed. 

I never knew very much about Russell. I admire 
Russell a good deal. He had some very interesting 
ideas about marital questions. He was against the 
Vietnam business, and sat in Trafalgar Square in 
protest when be was ninety years old, carefully 
having an inflatable pillow in his pants before be 
went there. 

For example, I don't go very far with people 
like Gilbert Ryle, or Ayer. and all of those people. 
They dido 't have the science of behavior needed. 
Wittgenstein towards the end groped for it. He 
said, "We will have to study the behavior of 
animals to get this thing clear. • • 

This was in the Blue and Brown Books and in 
Philosophical Investigations also. The Tractatus he 
himself abandoned. 

I starte'd to look at the Blue and Brown 
Books. Every sentence started me off on 
something else. I cannot accept that kind of 
wordplay. I'd say it's true of Ayer and Ryle and 
the whole gang. 

They're not getting back to fundamentals. That 
goes for Chomsky too. They don't get back to the 
actual behavior involved. 

DW You have Sllid tlu:Jt you do not like 
contemporary philosophy of science. Were you 
rrun~c.rng of the Vien1Ul Circle, or of Thomas Kuhn 
D W In Verbal Behavior you seem to quote with 
approval a passage from Russell where he SllYS that 
words don 'I refer to things. 

BFS I don't think I quote him with approval. I 
didn't like what he said. His book, Inquiry into 
Meaning and Truth. was a very. very sloppy thing 
and I didn't like any of that. He used a rather 
crude conditioned reflex idea of meaning, and it 
just doesn't make any sense at all. I've forgotten 
exactly how I put it, but it's in Verbal Behavior. 
[Skinner goes to the bookshelf and returns with 
Verbal Behavior) 

D W 
When you say of this quote, "In one sense 
this is a fair shot, " in what sense do you mean? 

BFS (quoting himself from Verbal Behavior) "In 
one sense this is fair shot. The hardy determinist 
will recognize a tendency to believe that what be is 
saying is, for the moment at least, removed from 
the field of determined action. 
"But the student of behavior is not the only one 
to face this dilemma. Behaving about behaving 
raises the same difficulties as knowing about 
knowing." 

D W So tlu:Jt ~ the sense in which lte is correct. 
You don't believe that words don't refer to things. 

BFS Oh yes. He had given the William James 
lectures the year before, and so I was probably 
being kind to him. -
But I was thinking of something else of his. 
There's another reference here rm Verbal 
Behavior]. There are a whole lot of references; two 
four. six eight, ten. That's an awful lot for one 
book. But there was one in there about bow, when 
we see a fox, we say 'fox\ and so on. Actually, 
what be said was not correct. I'm sure of that. On 
the whole question of reference, Watson made the 
same mistake. He was trying to get the whole th.iJlg 
in terms of conditioned reflexes. 

That's one of the cases where I've been 
misunderstood. I am not a stimulus response 
psychologist. 


When interviewed by Ewms, you said, "The 
study of perception suffers from the idea tlu:Jt one 
is somehow relating experience to reality. " How 
does it su.t/er from this? 

BFS There is no difference between experience 
and reality. It's the same thing. 

This is the old copy theory. Those flowers: I 
can't see them out there 011 the counter. so I must 
have a copy of them back here that I'm seeing. 
This is Plato. He couldn't understand how you 
could see something at a distance. I don't know 
bow he figured you got the copy in there either. 
There is no copy. That's even out of focus on 
my retina. The idea that, somehow. I can 
reconstruct those flowers out of neural events in 
the back of my head is absurd. When I shut my 
eyes I can still see them. I don't see them very 
well, but I can still do with my eyes shut what I do 
with my eyes open. 

There is not a world of experience. There is a 
world, and there's behavior with respect to that 
world. The idea that I-only have a psychological 
world inside me and that's what everything 
is-that's nothing unless it ll!eaDS something to 
me. Such meaning is in my behavior and in my 
history. 

DW What do you think is the correct use of the 
word 'causality'? 

BFS Well, I think I've said somewhere that 
operant behavior is the field of purpose. It's the 
effect of the future on the present. What appears 
to be the 'future directedness• of behavior is due 
to the past consequences and not, of course, to the 
actual future consequences, which can never act at 
all. There's no First Cause. The future can't act. 
But we are directed towards the future because we 
are reacting in ways which have had consequences 
in the past." 

I have a manuscript I should get around to 
publishing called Selection by Consequences in 
which I compare natural selection, operant 
conditioning, and the evolution of cultures. They 
all raise the same questions. Who creates? Darwin 
had a creation problem and I have a creation 
problem. 

Cultures arise from the social contract. What is 
the goal and what is the purpose? The band is not 
to grasp things but is the way it is because it bas 
grasped things in the past successfully. These same 
issues come on all three levels, all due to the fact 
that this is a causal principle which only exists in 
living things, selection by consequences. It emerged 
from the world with the emergence of life. 

DW Is this c:au.sol principle differenttlu:Jn a fully 
reduced mechanistic principle? 

BFS This full kind of causality? Oh, yes. That is 
why it is quite wrong to say that I treat animals 
like machines. They can't be machines. No 
machine can do what an animal does. You can 
program a computer to be modified by 
consequences only because a human being designed 
it. No machine is affected by consequences. 

Darwin was the one who really finally 
enumerated the ideas of natural selection. Hence, 
you don't have to have design or purpose to begin 
it. I think human behavior is precisely the same 
thing. You don't will, you don't plan, you don't 
initiate action. You are affected by the 
consequences of past action. You can design at all 
three levels. That's a later step that only happens 
when a culture emerges which puts the individual 
in possession of everything needed for design. 
Then you can design genetically. In the old days, 
they used breeding; now they can do it by fiddling 
around with the variations. You can design 
behavior by consequences and arrange 
reinforcement, contingencies, behavior 
modification. 

You also get new behaviors by sort of modeling 
behavior: giving instructions to get something 
done, then you reinforce. Cultures almost always 
just fiddle with the variations-new ways of 
teaching and so on-but you can, if you want to, 
change the contingencies of selection of the 
culture. You say, "Let's keep the Samoan culture 
intact." 

DW Would tlu:Jt be a good idea? 

BFS No, I don't think ... What do you mean, 
'good idea'? But it could be done. You could 
select a cultural practice by making sure that it 
works. But it isn't done. Ordinarily with cultures 
we only fiddle with the variation, not the selection. 
The rat doesn't press the lever because be associates 
k isn't that anyone is going to step in from . 
Pressing with food He p 
because food foUows 
outside the.cau.w stream and say, "We want 
• 
resses 
people to be happy and productive. • • Nobody can 
when be presses. 
\ 
;.do that. That would imply that there was 
his 
I don't know Kuhn's stuff well. Paradigms 
and so on. I don't know what he's saying. I have 
never had any desire to look into it. 

I say something myself a bit about scientific 
method. I think we can analyze how scientists 
work. As a matter of fact, one point of the 
autobiography is to give as honest an account as I 
can of how I have been working as a scientist. No 
nonsense about testing hypotheses and so on. I 
don't do that at aU. 

DW You mentioned. in one inl6viLw, tlu:Jt you 
like Francis &con.· 

BFS Wd.l, Bacon had some right ideas. It isn't 
just a question of classi£acation thou&b. He did 
}>elieve that kno-:tedge is power, and that ·s wbat I 
believe: to know IS to be able to do 
sOmething-not to be contemplative and 
understand passively. 

somebody who wasn't determined. But cultures 
'\. 
advance by discovering better ways of teaching, 
' 
better ways of getting people to work, better ways 
•••llil•lill liiliil••llllliiillllllllllli•lllill•'l.l of organizing the family structure and getting 
along with people. 

Different cultures do it in different ways and the 
culture which makes the most of the people in the 
group is going to be the most likely to solve its 
problems and survive. 

So you have a competition. There's an evolution 
pf effective cultural practices which i"' th~ :answer 
to "Who is to decide?" It's like asking a fish, 
• 'Why do you want to get out of the water and 
walk on land?" No decision is ever made. 

DW How do you feel about the treotment of 
perception by the classical empiricists? 

BFS Oassical empiricists-the British 
Empiricists-were associationists and they bad you 
doing things to the world. Even though it was 
much better than what bad been done before, 
there was a mind which was picking up these 
impressions. It was a tabula rasa which was getting 
these things written on it. I don't think 
auociationism will do anything at all. 1be rat 
doesn't press the lever because he associates 
pre:ssina with food. He presses because food 
follows when be presses. That's a very different 



**Title: The Hope Stops Here: An Interview with Jacques Derrida**
**Author: Pam Schirmeister**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
16 
The New Journal, November /979 
The Thope Stops Here: An Interview with Jacques Derrida 
Jacques Derrida has been caUed a lot of names. 
Subversive. Deconstructionist. Gallic linguistifier, 
emphasis on gall. He caUs himself, quite simply, a 
professor of philosophy, and he is, in fact, a 
maitre assistant of philosophy at L 'Ecole Normale 
Superieure in Paris, and has been a visiting 
professor at Yale for four years now. But he is 
more than a collection of names. 

Consider a statement made not long ago in a 
discussion section of HAL 36Sa (Modernism and 
Modernity). The reading for the week was a 
se.!Ullent. of Derrida's boolf. Of Grammatolozy 
After an hour and a half of near yelling and · 
violent interruptions and disagreements, the T.A. 
concluded by saying that in one sense, the entire 
course was expressly directed against a Derridean 
way of reading. "That reading," he said, "is a 
subversion of the entire tradition of Western 
metaphysics." 

Or, consider a professor who says, "A lot of 
people would rightfully argue that this way of 
reading just should not be taught to 
undergraduates." This way of reading, which 
seems peculiarly resistant to definition, is 
sometimes called "deconstruction," but that, too, 
is just a name. And a collection of names hardly 
provokes such responses. 

Derrida himself was at Yale this fall, offering a 
seminar on translation, and when we go to 
Trumbull to ask him about his way of reading, he 
seems a contradiction of all that has been said 
about him. His speech is neither vehement nor 
flip, though perhaps characteristically, he begins 
by saying, "You know, I'm not used to giving 
interviews-the interview is a very problematic 
form." And yet, he tries hard to be thoughtful 
about our questions, qualifying his answers as he 
goes, occasionally asking if they are appropriate 
for an interview. He speaks seriously but with a 
reserved playfulness about his own authority to 
answer our questions. At one point the tape 
recorder breaks. and l ask him if he will wait while 
I fix it. "Oh-don't worry about it," he laughs, 
"just make up what you don't catch." 

When we question him ~bout his way of 
reading, about this thing called deconstruction, he 
becomes evasive, telling us he would be wary 
about the word itself. But he agrees to use it for 
convenience, saying, "There has always been 
deconstruction. It did not begin one day in the 
twentieth century; there is a way of looking at 
Plato as the frrst deconstructor. It is not new-but 
it has always been a threat. There is always a 
permanent threat of deconstruction in every 
structure. It's simply a question of becoming 
aware of it." 

But to become aware of it is not the same as to 
define it, and in this answer, as in the rest of the 
interview, Derrida avoids a direct definition of 
deconstruction. Like his critics, he agrees that 
"deconstruction asks questions about the 
foundations on which traditional classical methods 
are built," at the same time·, it goes further than 
methodology. And perhaps it is because Derrida 
sees deconstruction as a principle inherent in every 
structure rather than as a critical tool that he 
provokes such violent responses in his readers. 

"Deconstruction," he tells us, "has not only to 
do with texts that you find in a library. It cannot 
be reduced to discourse. It is something that 
affects my life, not merely a methodological 
approach. It is a way of doing, of speaking, of 
writing." 

His writing, he explains, grows more and more 
autobiographical, "in a sophisticated sort of way." 
"Indirectly, the problems I write about are the 
problems of my life." He adds, however that 
questions about literature and the philosophical 
problems in literary texts interest him most even 
though he would not caU himself a literary critic. 

In this area, Derrida says deconstruction has 
something to do with seeking out the 
presuppositions in a text. He will not be much 
more explicit, but as Harold Bloom defines it, "to 
deconstruct a poem would mean to uncover 
Pam Schirmeister M'WlS assisted by Ma~ant Cohen '80 
in conducting this interview. 
-Pam Schirmeister 
whatever its rhetoricity conveyed, even if the 
poem, the poet, and the tradition of its 
interpretation showed no overt awareness of what 
implicity was revealed by such word-
consciousness ... To deconstruct a poem is to 
indicate the precise location of its figuration of 
doubt, its uncertain notice of the limit where 
persuasion yields to a dance or interplay of 
tropes." That limit might be described as the point 
at which we can no longer control language or be 
sure of what it is doing. 

"Language," Derrida tells us emphatically, "is 
not an instrument, and in that case, I transform 
my own relation to language." With this, he 
suggests that his critical langtiage, like that of the 
poem, contains its own deconstruction, its own 
figuration of doubt, and cannot, therefore, be 
reduced to a technical operation. He is careful to 
remind us again that here, as elsewhere, 
deconstruction is not a universal method, although 
his critics continue to insist it is just that, and so 
to find it reductive. 

Derrida expresses little confidence in this 
perspective, adding that as a key word, as a master 
concept, deconstruction loses interest. He has 
rather to do with a chain of concepts, and says, "I 
pay attention to something not identifiable, to 
heterogeneity, to otherness." Deconstruction, he 
continues, begins, in fact, by taking apart a 
universal language, and must not, in turn, become 
a universal language. 

At the same time, he talks of the importance of 
unity, of tradition, saying that a university, for 
example, relies on programs with unity and has a 
history of fields of study, so that it could not be 
built on the deconstructive enterprise. And 
surprisingly, he speaks of his own place within that 
history, of his rigor as a teacher of a standard 
canon. "I have to take part in the tradition even 
as I question it," he says, but he does not seem 
optimistic about the future of that tradition. Of 
teaching it, he tells us, "Disunity is a condition of 
the work. We are in a critical period, and things 
will not be developing harmoniously." 

He pauses for a moment here, but goes on to 
discuss literary criticism as one disturbing example 
of this disunity: "There is more disunity between 
two critics than between a critic and physicist. It's 
as if they're speaking different languages. The 
homogeneity is terrible. They have different 
presuppostions and it creates a scattering in 
pedagogy. Every scholar has his own code, and it 
makes a Babel tower." One wonders if he is 
referring to the tower at the far end of the Old 
Campus, but anyone who has been reading 
Derrida will know that he could certainly include 
himself in this statement, that he himself has a 
specialized code. 

But disturbing as it may b'e, this coding is 
inherent in the language of literary criticism as 
Derrida sees it. "Literary criticism," he explains, 
"is not a metalinguistic survey of literature. It is 
not an objective discourse. To write criticism is to 
write fiction, for you cannot escape being within 
the field about which you write. This is not a 
triumph; it's a necessity." Such a perspective turns 
a considerable catachresis on the traditional 
concept of literary traditon and on the function of 
language, which in turn, creates a disagreement 
about the object of criticism. What is language? 
What is literature? What is to compare? When 
literary criticism is forced to address these 
questions, it undermines the unity of its object, 
which naturally creates a scattering in pedagogy. 

When we asked him if this kind of a crisis has 
any effect beyond the walls of the university, his 
response is immediate: ''The university is not an 
island. It's important to work within the academy, 
although what happens there is chiefly important 
in scientific and technical areas. What we do in 
other fields certainly affects the inside of the 
university, but also the ideological issues of the 
country. Yet these effects remain very indirect and 
potential, and perhaps unclear." 

To talk about the effects of literary criticism is, 
in one way, to talk about our relationship to 
literature, and n~ the end of the interview, we 
ask Derrida why in a broad sense he thinks we 
need to read literature. ·He laughs softly and 
repeats the qu~tion twice before looking up at us. 
When he does look up, he answers with an amused 
question about what we mean by literature, and 
adds, "You know, literature is a recent event, a 
Western adventure begun in the 18th century. Do 
you mean Western literature, or perhaps you mean 
all written texts?" Again he is being playful, 
evading the question, but he soon returns to it: 
"Why do we read? I have no serious answer to 
that. But I think it must be asked seriously. Our 
motivations and desires always differ. Why do we 
read fictions or poetry? I try to ask that question 
innocently of myself. But I'm not sure 1 need 
reading. Sometimes I have the impression it's 
something superfluous. It's not useful, but at the 
same time, it's vital." 

Of his own reading habits he is even more 
skeptical, and when we ask him if there have been 
any particularly influential authors for him, he 
remarks that he is a little old to remember. 
"Besides," he says, I'm not a massive reader 
anyway. My way of reading is very active and 
discontinuous, a violent way of reading. I'm not 
satisfied with that though. I feel guilty about it 
sometimes because sometimes reading should be 
more passive." He looks at us apologetically and 
then smiles waving his hand. "But I'm not passive 
about it. I exploit the book, eat the book, 
extracting little by little. I read to write-it's 
related to my project." 

By now we have been talking for a little over an 
hour, and as Derrida f'mishes speaking, it seems 
difficult to imagine him any longer as a collection 
of names. In fact we have even seen him jogging 
through the Grove Street cemetary in Yale sweats, 
and as we stand to leave we ask him how far he 
goes. For a last time, he smiles, and says, "Yes a 
graduate student friend of mine here got me 
started when I f'rrst came to Yale. He said it was a 
good thing to do. But I don't run a certain 
distance, just for a certain time. I've improved, 
too, since I first started. I'm going for twenty 
minutes now and I couldn't do that before." He 
suddenly catches himself and says, "Wait. Are you 
going to use this for your interview? Well, if you 
do, you can tell people I intend to go further." 

We suspect he was not just talking about his 
jogging. 

Pam Schirmeister '80 is an intense English Major. 


**Title: Deconstruction and Witticism**
**Author: Heart of Glass**
**Page number(s): 17**

• 
The New Journal, November 1979 
Deconstruction and Witticism 
Bride of Derrida 
- Heart of Glass 
The exigencies, or urgencies, or emergencies of our disestablished era have 
pressed or oppressed us to a greater revaluation of our less conspicuous 
alternatives. Poetry as the sine qua non, the critic's duenna of rehabilitated 
consciousness, pales before the varied claims and shames of simplistic but 
ever more achingly present truths (Nietzsche). Akenside, in the 1740s, who 
saw wtth striking prescience the setting star of Abendland rise in the east of 
literary history, stands at the periphery of that Wordsworthian absolute, the 
voluble pansy, which repeated with endless consuetude the tale/tail of English 
poetry (see Wordsworth). Notwithstanding the inception of em-Byronic 
despair, the purpled glory of Victorian melancholy (Pater), or the contra-
platitudinous pose/prose of Wildean wit, Hesperus continues to glimmer in 
the fiercely contiguous struggle of the opposing spirits of exiled historicism--
those backward-glancing shuttlecocks of modern thought whose stolen gleams 
of tinkling thunder have sublimated the heuristic sublime in a more palatable 
mixture of Angst and joie de vivre. 

If criticism is ever to start or startle the hermeneutic genii from their 
prostration before the faded blooms of prior magnitude, the limpid spirits 
must divest themselves of their too contemJ)orary hang-ups, and loose their 
-auraJ..powers in a recrudescence of divine investiture. 

Or if, as Freud thought, in his Jungian fashion, espression is cathartic of 
an expletive or almost explosive energy, Che complex that besets us remains 
undeciphered in its impenetrable plexus of meaning. The under-play of ludic 
, consciousness (Huizinga) portends no resurgence of metaphysical certitude. 
Much remains to be done. The dispeptic reader· is a Wandering Jew who has 
eaten of the Tree of Knowledge, and finds himself, like Philomela, singing in 
the wood. Lacan or Derrida? If hermeneutics is to become Hermetics, the 
Seraphic fire must surely burn on another altar. And the altar /alternation of 
our too wavering faith must now reside (if Peguy is right) in the equilibria of 
stable alternatives. 

The ontological imperative. The formalist critique deepened, but did not 
dispense, with the already transmogrified division of imaginative structures. 
Surely the Stevensian cry, plucked on the violet strings of uncertain existense, 
was a challenge, never met, to our vilified language. And yet the Miltonic 
bequest must, too, demand our ear (as early, unencumbered, pristine 
verisimilitude)-such angelic strictures as it would not be wise to ignore. I 
would assert, nevertheless, that the compromise (or rather surmise) of 
Blanchot is unacceptable (see his Etudes Pitiables, p. 213). Deliquesence is 
not true quiescence. 

Against this too vapid matrix of neo-Kantian insipidities, I have argued a 
reductio, but not, I hope, ad absurdum. Since the strange is never strange 
enough, until it becomes the primal estrangement, the Coleridgean caveat 
needs some revision. The langue that is out on parole arouses more suspicion 
than once it did. The Heavenly Hosts look more and more like the Assyrian 
hordes. And Rintrah, who may well be the final permutation of the displaced 
Chronos, now beats a sadder measure of hyperbolic, yet Hyperborean 
despair. 

0 Time! 0 Tempus! The Romantics found in the Odic 01 a noose to 
encircle the vacuous core of a felt Kierkegaardian dread (see Kierkegaard). If 
I am not to be consumed by my own presumption, perhaps I had better offer 
a similar stop-gap with which to plug such dangerous perforations of soul. 
The critical rhythms to which I have henceforth alluded are rootedly 
libidinous, manifestly so. All redaction is reduction, a tertiary defense against 
the originally erected text (see Freud again). And yet ... and yet, are they, in 
fact, no also pseudo-mystical extractions or even extrications from the · 
ravelled unfoldings of incarnate palaver? To explicate or haruspicate those 
astral imaginings ... though the hip aesthetic, of qualified purport and 
perhaps even out of joint, would carry us away in the whirlwind of 
unmaking. RHke does not abide, and Mr. Kurtz-he dead. 

Heart of Glass teaches in Marina del Rey. 


**Title: Dark Victory**
**Author: James Romm**
**Page number(s): 18**

18 
Dark Victory contin~edfrom pogefive 
6. We're Invulnerable! 
Hunter Prillaman, 1980 
and Scott MacCiarty, 1980 
We're invulnerable! And nothing 
seems to hurt us! 
We're invulnerable! Our luck won't 
desert us! 
As we roll down the field, the 
awesome force we wield 
Will make the Crimson yield! We're 
invulnerable I 
We're unbeatable! Even though they 
are persistent! 
We're unbeatable! Their score is 
non-existant I 
Our team will never fail, we'U kick 
poor Harvard's tail; 
It's aU for Eli Yale! We're unbeatable! 
We're invincible! We do it all for Eli! 
We're invincible! In a massacre like 
My Lai! 
The other team is weak, Their 
Quarterback's a freak; 
They're really up shit creek! We're 
invincible! 

The unrestrained joy and exultation of these 
songs reflect the lighter side of the martial 
tradition. There is no hint here of the strife of 
"Smash! Bang! Crash!" or the terror of "The Big 
Blue Wave." Rather we find the same celebratory 
spirit that characterizes such works as the French 
Arc de Triomphe or Beethoven's Emperor 
concerto. It is ironic that Mr. Zurier should choose 
the title "Bulldog Blues" for his song; the spirit of 
his jubilant lines is the exact opposite of the blues. 
Mr. Zurier establishes the metaphor of political 
rule with such phrases as .. the Eli Nation" and 
"establish domination;" his use of "the good 
years" suggests the idea of a golden age, a Pax 
Romana, in which the dynasty is young and 
flourishing. One is tempted to see behind this 
poem the political philosophy of Hobbes or 
Machiavelli, who felt that the security and 
prosperity of the state were the primary requisites 
for the happiness of the citizens. Mr. MacClary 
and Mr. Prillaman make a bold venture with their 
"We're lnvulnerable"-combining the gravity and 
might of martial poetry with the whimsy of Ogden 
Nashian rhymes. The humor does not, however, 
distract us from the main theme; it serves rather to 
instill the poem with the same heartfelt joy that 
. comes with being 'invulnerable'. Needless to say, 
the Eli-My Lai rhyme in the last stanza took 
reckless daring on the part of the authors but, 
provided the public interest groups are not too 
offended, I think they carry it off. 

7 Saturday Nipt Fl&lat Soq 
Steve Hayes, 198/ 
Tonight we'll raise a cup at Mory's! 
Tonight the band will play! 
Tonight we'll sing the glories of the game we 
won today! 
Tonight the Elis will be marching 
Up the old Blue victory trail; 
Today we'll faghtl Fight! Fight! And then 
tonight, 
Chalk up another win for Mother Yale! 

7. 0 DIBhle 
by Phil Kushner 
With Autumn breezes blowing, we 
march to Yale's Bowl; 
All minds are set on victory, all 
hearts are on one goal; 
For Eli's sons and daughters, we vow 
we shall not fail 
To fight with all our might for 
.a:>untry, God and Yale. 
REFRAIN: 
And as the Yale men take the fldd 
Our honor to defend 
0 Eli blue, dear Bulldog blue 
We're with you to the end. 
1be years they come and go, and 
nothing stays the same, 
But one proud banner waves in honor 
of the name 
Of men who shook the field and 
fought for Mother Yale, 
Who stopped the Crimson tide and 
pulled the Tiger's tail. 
A hush is on Old Campus; the 
classrooms are all bare; 
The library is quiet, it seems no 
one is there; 
Where are the eager students, young 
scholars bent on fame? 
They've thrown away their books 
and gone to see the game. 

I find this song remarkable for the lyrlcal , 
almost haunting way in which they deal with the 
theme of battle. This is accomplished with the use 
of a shift in focus, a device which is used 
extensively in Homer: the narrative leaves the plain 
of war and travels to a more peaceful scene on 
Mount Olympus or inside Troy. The sudden 
stillness, the remoteness of the clamor of armies, 
creates an eerie melancholy in the reader; the 
importance of military contest seems somehow 
altered within a different context. 

Mr. Hayes' work presents the viewpoint of a 
contestant looking forward to the celebration after 
the victory. The speaker seems to be lost in 
reverie, and is almost unaware of present time· his 
b 
"fi 
' 
a rupt 
•ghtl fight! fight!" is spoken as if to 
remind himself that there is still arduous work to 
be done. The poem has very much the quality of a 
daydream, weaving an enchantment around us as 
we read, similar to that of Shakespeare's 
incantation: "When the burly-burly's done, when 
the battle's lost-and won ... " The more 
concrete aspects of warfare are cast aside for the 
sake of a greater vision. 

Mr. Kushner's work has a similar quality of 
enchantment about it. Although the battle is just 
about to be joined, the poet's mind wanders over a 
wide range of other thoughts: the breezes of 
Autumn, the ceaseless cycle of change, and the 
remembrance of past glory. Finally we are 
presented with an unusually sombre image of the 
deserted main campus. The reader is left on a 
wistful final note that helps emphasize the 
grandeur of the contest about to take place, yet at 
the same time joins it with its eventual passage 
into oblivion through the victory of Time. It was 
in the same tones that Shelley wrote of the 
monumental statue of the ancient King 
Ozymandias: "And on the pedestal these words 
appear:/ 'My name is Ozymandias, king of kings:/. 
Look on my works, ye mighty, and despair!'/ 
Nothing beside remains. Round the decay/ Of that 
colossal wreck, boundless and bare/ The lone and 
level sands stretch far away." 

7. Yale's Got 
Hunter Prillaman, /980 
Harvard men have higher S.A.T. 's, 
And the Princeton campus has a lot of 
trees. 
Dartmouth men know about the birds 
and bees, 
and UConn players know their ABC's. 
REFRAIN 
But Yale's got a better football team! 
Yale's got a better football team! 
And we know it's all that matters. 
Columbia has New York to walk around 
And there must be something wonderful, 
at Brown. 
It's not too bad at Penn and Cornell, 
And they all give poor Yale a lot of hell. 
But Yale's got a better football team, 
etc. 

Once again, Prillaman's lighthearted approach 
to bis subject is refreshingly unique. He employs a 
format that is familiar enough: that of cataloguing 
the names of his opponents. Witness this eumple 
of Sir Walter Scott's: 

Proudly our pibroch has thrilled in Glen 
Fruin 
And Bannochar's groans to our slogan 
replied; 
Glen Luss and Ross-dhu, they are 
smoking in ruin, 
And the best of Loch Lomon lie dead 
on her side 
Widow and Saxon Maid 
Long shall lament our raid 
Think of Clan-Alpine with fear and 
with woe; 
Lennox and Leven-glen 
Shake when they hear again, 
" Roderick vich-Alpine dhu, hoi 
iero!" 

Prillaman's daring innovation is to make 
concessions to each of the opponents rather than 
vaunting it over them. This serves to build up 
tension, perhaps even outrage, in the reader, until 
the bright resolution of the refrain comes in at 
last. The success of the work hinges on whether or 
not the 'punchline' can make us laugh off or 
forget the self -deprecation that came before. For 
my own part, I believe that Mr. Prillaman can get 
away with any of his concessions, except that of 
the S.A.T. scores to Harvard; there I think he has 
overstepped the boundary of what is acceptable. 

8. Mardi from Yoar hory Towers 
Charles .Baum, 1975 
March from your ivory towers to winning 
fields, 
Show them your mighty strength! Show 
them Yale never yields! 
Play as though all your life hinges on 
winning now, 
Show your aggressiveness! Show them 
that Yale knows how! 
For when you're in the world striving 
for excellence, 
There is no room for soft simpering 
sentiments. 
And when you're at the top, then you 
learn life is cruel, 
And you will face the world fighting 
a constant duel. 
And if this rat-raced pace seems like 
it gets too tough, 
May I say second place isn't quite 
good enough. 
For although Eli's kin may hate the 
world they're in, 
Still we will fight to prove that dear 
old Yale will win. 

I offer this poem last as a imal salute to the 
magnificence of martial poetry. Mr. Baum 
addresses far more than the simple question of 
winning and losing; he speaks to the most 
fundamental issues of human existence. The world 
is structured in such a way thal man achieves glory. 
only through suffering and toil; even when he 
reaches the summit he is still beset by strife and 
must struggle constantly to maintain his 
prominence. Yet, the poet implies, this is the most 
admirable way of dealing with the world. To stay 
apart, removed from the arena of strife, is not a 
valid solution; thus we are urged, "march from 
your ivory towers." Nor is it "good enough" to 
accept a secondary position and not face the 
burden of having to fight off constant challenges. 
It is precisely because the competitive nature of life 
is so distasteful that we must reach for victory. 
Only by vanquishing can we overcome the 
harshness of the conditions imposed on us by the 
competitive world; only in triumph do we redeem 
the inherent righteousness and nobility of 
humankind. Indeed, Mr. Baum's last two lines 
strike at the very center of the problem of strife 
and its relationship to victory. From the sphere of 
a world characterized by grief and struggle, the 
warrior can reclaim a share of greatness and 
distinction-but only by taking on more strife. 
Human suffering and toil are redeemed at last in 
the spirit of the contest. Mr. Baum harkens back 
across the ages to his flrst known predecessor, 
Homer, who first set down the idea that: "men 
fight because they are mortal." 

The winning song in the Yale Band competition is 
expected to be JH'f!Viewed at the Harvard-Yale 
game this weekend. 
Jam~ Romm 710 is J11rp/e on ThW'Sidllys. 



**Title: WEW GOT A BETTER DEAL ON Sofo CHECKING.**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
a 
The New Journal, November 1979 
WEW GOT A BETTER DEAL 
ON Sofo CHECKING. 
A Jot of banks offer 5% Checking. New Haven Savings 
Bank offers 5% Checking and more. Three ways for 
you to eam all the interest you can. 
You eam 5% interest 
when you keep a minimum balance 
of just S200 in your checking account And you 
get ched<Jng free from monthly service charges. 
Keep your minimum balance requirement in your 
Regular Savings Account where it earns 5V2%. 
And still eam 5% interest on whatever amount 
is in your checking account. 
Put S500 in a 6-year CD. (Certificate of Deposit) 
and eam 73/4% interest Or eam 8% by putting 
your S500 in an 8-year CD.* 
Ynl H NO MONTHlY 
SERVICE CHARGES AND 
A 10T OF 01 HER 
SERVICES. 
As long as you keep a S200 balance in your 5% 
Checking account, or in a savings account, or 
S200 to S500 in a CD. (depending on the term), 
there are no monthly service charges. And you 
can get a lot of other services. Uke a Bill-Paying 
Service, Check 'n' Cash, Preferred Banking 
Card, Pref~rred Cash ReseNe, Unscrambled 
Monthly Statement, Preauthorized Transfers, and 
Direct Automatic Deposit. 
CHECK OUT OURS,. 
CHECKING. 
At New Haven Savings Bank, you can eam 
more than 5% interest on 5% Checking. 
And that interest adds up. 
*Note: Under federal regulations c~ 
cl ~may 
not be 
redeemed before maturity \Nittlout a subStantial Inter~ penalty 
being ifTl)OSed. 
"VJE WANT TO GIVE 
YOU AU. I HE IN I EREST 
YOU DESERVE.•




**Title: NEW HAYEN'S LARGEST SPORTING-GOODS DEPARTMENT WINTER SPORTS & VACATION SPECIALS**
**Page number(s): 20**

111111111111111111 
~~X..E: 
NEW HAYEN'S LARGEST 
SPORTING-GOODS DEPARTMENT 
WINTER SPORTS & VACATION 
SPECIALS 
• "CHAMOIS" SHIRTS-$13.99 
. . 
. 
• HEAVY WOOL SHIRTS-$16.95 special 
~,lo. 
• TURTLE NECKS-$10.95 ea. 
3124.99 
• PLAID FLANNEL SHIRTS-$7.50 ea . 
..-~--_ 
...... _______ .. 
3117.99 
SKI KITS 
·CROSS COUNTRY SKI PACK No. 1 
Track Rallye Waxless Ski 
Tour Boot Tarn 
Tour Pole 
Aluminum Binding 
SALE $109~99 
Reg. Price 
Total 
$ 89.95 
37.95 
10.95 
$139.80 
plus $5.00 mounting 
DOWN HILL SKI PACKAGE 
Dynastar Compact Ski 
Reg. 
Salomon 222 Binding and Brake 
Nordica Omega Boot 
$135.00 
69.95 
65.00 
8.00 
Aluminum Pole 
SALE $199.99 
$277.95 
plus $15.00 mounting 
Gerry Parkas-Vests-Ski Boots 
Imported Sweaters-Aitra Kits 
ARIS ALL-WEATHER DOWN MITTENS 
Reg. $30.00 
$19.99 
WOOLRICH-
A YALE TRADITION 
• WOVEN PLAIDS 
Indoor or outdoor 
weights 
# 
• CHAMOIS SHIRTS 
• SHELLS-for year· 
round versatility, 
wide selection to 
choose from. 
YALE 
YALE CO-OP 
TRAVEL CENTER 
• Expert Advice 
• Make Holiday 
Reservations NOW 
• Apply for Special 
New Travel Charge 
Account 
• Phone 562-5578 
8 
'--~~ ........ -. s OF ENGLAND 
Wallabee: 
The original 
and still 
the greatest. 
MEN 
TALL $58 
SHORT $53 
WOMEN $48 
Clarks 
Desert Boot 
MEN & WOMEN 
•35 
I 
~ 
; 

