Publication date: October 2012
Volume: 45
Issue number: 2


**MASTHEAD:**
- Publisher: Whitney Schumacher
- Editors-in-Chief: Juliana Hanle, Aliyya Swaby
- Managing Editors: Benjamin Mueller, Cindy Ok
- Photo & Design Editors: Brianne Bowen, Susannah Shattuck
- Senior Editors: Nicholas Geiser, Helen Knight, Nikita Lalwani, Sanjena Sathian
- Associate Editors: Eric Boodman, Sophia Nguyen
- Copy Editors: Cassie DaCosta, Justine Yan
- Staff Writer: Caroline Durlacher
- Members and Directors: Emily Bazelon, Peter B. Cooper, Jonathan Dach, Kathrin Lassila, Eric Rutkow, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, Fred Strebeigh.
- Advisors: Richard Bradley, Jay Carney, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Jennifer Pitts, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, David Slifka, John Swansburg, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Michael Addison, Austin Family Fund, Steve Ballou, J. Neela Banerjee, Margaret Bauer, Anson M. Beard, Jr., Blaire Bennett, Richard Bradley, Martha Brant, Susan Braudy, Daniel Brook, Hilary Callahan, Jay Carney, Daphne Chu, Josh Civin, Jonathan M. Clark, Constance Clement, Andy Court, Masi Denison, Albert J. Fox, Mrs. Howard Fox, David Freeman, Geoffrey Fried, Sherwin Goldman, David Greenberg, Stephen Hellman, Laura Heymann, Gerald Hwang, Walter Jacob, Jane Kamensky, Tina Kelley, Roger Kirwood, Jonathan Lear, Lewis E. Lehrman, Jim Lowe, E. Nobles Lowe, Daniel Murphy, Martha E. Neil, Peter Neil, Howard H. Newman, Sean O’Brien, Laura Pappano, Julie Peters, Lewis and Joan Platt, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, Fairfax C. Randal, Robert Randolph, Stuart Rohrer Arleen and Arthur Sager, Richard Shields, W. Hampton Sides, Lisa Silverman, Scott Simpson, Adina Proposco and David Sulsman, Thomas Strong, Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Wilson, Daniel Yergin and Angela Stent Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- Letter from the Editors
- Points of Departure
- Snapshot - Surfing CT - by Gideon Broshy
- Verse - Ornithology - by Felicity Sheehy
- Snapshot - Dead in the Pots - by Eric Boodman
- Photo Essay - Orange, California - by Max Saltarelli
- Endnote - A Conversation with Cord Jefferson
- Where the Art Is - by Adela Jaffe
- A Wooden Boat - by Molly Hensley-Clancy


**Title: Letter from the Editors**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 4**


**Title: Points of Departure**
**Page number(s): 6**


**Title: Snapshot**
**Author: Gideon Broshy**
**Page number(s): 10**

Surfing CT


**Title: Verse**
**Author: Felicity Sheehy**
**Page number(s): 14**

Ornithology


**Author: Eric Boodman**
**Page number(s): 16**

Dead in the Pots


**Title: Photo Essay**
**Author: Max Saltarelli**
**Page number(s): 20**

Orange, California


**Title: Endnote**
**Page number(s): 28**

A Conversation with Cord Jefferson


**Title: Where the Art Is**
**Author: Adela Jaffe**
**Page number(s): 34**

A local artist struggles to make it in New 
Haven’s competitive art scene.


**Title: A Wooden Boat**
**Author: Molly Hensley-Clancy**
**Page number(s): 38**

A Branford Boatbuilder reacquaints the 
author with her own history.



**Title: LETTER FROM THE EDITORS**
**Author: Juliana Hanle and Aliyya Swaby**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Dear Readers,
On September 24, Newsweek published a cover with the large headline 
“MUSLIM RAGE” above a photo of screaming men, alluding to recent anti-
U.S. protests in the Muslim world. Many respected media outlets denounced and 
mocked Newsweek for its sensationalist and simplistic portrayal of a diverse religious 
community. 

For the October issue of The New Journal, we interviewed Cord Jefferson, a 
contributing editor for Gawker, who argued this error could have been avoided by 
bringing more diversity into the newsroom itself.  But the philosophy of diversity 
and inclusion is as much about changing a broader mindset as it is about improving 
statistics.

News outlets have a responsibility to include and accurately portray 
underrepresented demographic groups in the issues they cover. As a publication that 
focuses on topics of social justice, The New Journal has to report in a nuanced way 
about Yale and the broader New Haven community. 

The Society of Professional Journalists suggests looking at the way complex 
stories cross five specific “faultlines” or important social forces in the U.S. — race, 
class, gender, generation and geography. Thinking of sources along these lines will 
improve a piece’s accuracy and fairness.

Our editors and reporters consciously thought about issues of diversity as 
we worked on the October issue. For example, Adela Jaffe’s feature article “Where 
the Art Is” discusses the way local artist Gordon Skinner’s race and socioeconomic 
background affects his perception of his status in New Haven’s art scene.

However, we know this is an ongoing and difficult process. We are primarily 
trying to think broadly and source widely — keeping an open mind when reporting 
on varied backgrounds and sourcing outside of their comfort zones. 

A gap exists in the framework of mainstream media that allows for the 
promotion of ignorant beliefs. We would like to be part of the solution. 
Sincerely,
Juliana Hanle and Aliyya Swaby
Editors-in-Chief 


**Title: POINTS OF DEPARTURE**
**Author: Katharine Konietzko**
**Page number(s): 6**

Beads, Weeds, and Palaces
When Gabriel Prieto was a little boy, he ran around 
the hills of Huanchaco, Peru, collecting tiny beads and 
shiny ceramic fragments. As a fifth year PhD candidate 
at Yale, his perspective has changed, but he hasn’t 
stopped running his fingers through the soil. Prieto has 
spent the last two years excavating the 4000-year-old 
remains of the north coast Peruvian fishing village of 
Pampas Gramalote. Beginning in the summer of 2010, 
he picked carefully through layers of dirt, finding the 
decaying remains of totora reeds still twisted together in 
ropes as if just released from a fisherman’s hands. With 
surprise and delight he found that the ancient fishermen 
of Pampas extracted red pigments from plants and 
shark lipids in order to dye the cloths they tied to fishing 
nets—the same red cloths fishermen in Huanchaco tie 
on their nets today.

A century earlier, in 1911, Yale assistant professor 
of Latin American history Hiram Bingham III and two 
Peruvian colleagues followed a native boy high up into 
Peru’s mountains, where they stepped into the remains 
of Incan imperial city Machu Picchu. The tops of 
stone walls and terraces barely showed beneath a mass 
of jungle and wild vegetation. As he gazed out at the 
ethereal ruins, Bingham likely felt great awe.

Though separated by a hundred years, Prieto 
and Bingham shared what has now become a guiding 
principle of Yale’s archaeology department: the desire 
to academically, cross-culturally collaborate. Prieto 
thinks of today’s efforts as essentially finishing the 
project that Bingham began a century ago, when he 
entered Peru with the intention of studying its ancient 
culture. Until recently, the legacy of Bingham’s work has 
not represented this sensibility. In 2011, Yale and Peru 
agreed on terms for the repatriation of the artifacts that 
Bingham had excavated, with the Peruvian government’s 
blessing. By November 2012 the collection would be 
fully returned and available to both parties at the newly 
launched Universidad Nacional San Antonio Abad del 
Cusco-Yale University International Center for the 
Study of Machu Picchu and Inca Culture, accessible to 
faculty and students from both universities. 

Through the efforts of Richard Burger ’72, chair 
and director of graduate studies for Archaeology, Yale 
students should have the opportunity to take part in 
the excavation of the Casa Concha, a fifteenth century 
Incan palace and home to the center, next summer. They 
would work alongside archaeology students from the 
University of Cusco. The dig would serve as part of a 
practical course—provided it receives enough funding, 
likely from Yale donors.

And Prieto hopes to contribute to Professor 
Burger’s effort. Although Prieto has already worked 
with several students from Yale and from his Peruvian 
alma mater, the University of Trujillo, he wants to draw 
these two groups together in a formalized, meaningful 
way through collaboration on his project in Pampas 
Gramalote. He contextualized Burger’s work, saying, “it 
is all part of this larger dream.” 

Achieving productive cross-cultural collaboration 
has only become possible as archaeology departments 
have exhibited increased interest in non-Western 
civilizations. In the time since Burger was an 
undergraduate at Yale, the field of Peruvian archaeology 
has grown dramatically. He took the “Introduction to 
Peruvian Archaeology” course that he now teaches and 
claims that seventy percent of what he was taught then 
has been superseded by new information. At one point 
during his fifteen field seasons in Peru, he was able to 
name a previously-unstudied pre-Incan culture. “I always 
saw the work of Andean archaeologists as corrective 
[of] the biased and racist notion that there’s only one 
important center of civilization,” he said. The volume 
of information unearthed in the field of Peruvian 
archaeology during Burger’s tenure is a testament to the 
“I always saw the work of  
Andean archaeologists as 
corrective [of] the biased 
and racist notion that 
there’s only one important 
center of  civilization.”



**Title: Outside the Lines**
**Author: Jordana Cepelewicz**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
7
October 2012
Outside the Lines
Waiting outside Never Ending Books at 810 State 
Street one Saturday afternoon, I saw how the store 
gained its local nickname, “Never Open Books.” Its 
red-screened door, I was told, hadn’t opened once all 
week. Owner Roger Uihlein does little to alleviate the 
mystery of the closed storefront. Press-shy, he cannot 
be contacted by phone. Aside from regularly scheduled 
live events, business hours follow Uihlein’s whims. “He 
likes to be elusive,” said Brad Jacobs, who runs the 
store’s open-mic concert series and whose cell phone is 
listed as Never Ending Books’ only means of contact. 
Just to speak with Uihlein, I sat on the pavement outside 
the store for four hours. 


Outside, just to the left of the door, a small built-in 
bookshelf sports an assortment of works. A handwritten 
sign in the opposite window reads: “All books, records, 
CD’s (etc.) are FREE. Please feel free to leave a donation 
(large or small)! With much appreciation, Never Ending 
Folk.”


Uihlein and his young son arrived to unlock the 
place around four p.m., and I entered. A single person 
could just barely pass through the labyrinth of towering 
shelves and stacks of crates and boxes near the storefront. 
The variety inside was even more pronounced than that 
of the small collection kept outside. Browsing, I found a 
copy of Shakespeare’s Much Ado About Nothing alongside 
a thick book entitled Gem Elixirs and Vibrational Healing, 
Vol. 1.


Customers can take or leave whatever and however 
many books they want. “People come in and they assign 
a value to the book and donate what they want,” Uihlein 
said.


Never Ending Books started as a little bookstore 
called Books on State Street, Uihlein explained. He 
passed by often and would see a man sitting in a wicker 
chair among small, three-foot-tall bookcases. One day 
Uihlein entered the store and spoke with the man in the 
window–Frank Caso, the space’s owner. Caso told him 
that the business was failing and Uihlein decided to help 
out. He supplied more shelves left over from a carpentry 
job—he worked in carpentry at the time—and gathered 
a community to brainstorm and ultimately name Never 
Ending Books. 


New Haven has already seen a decline in 
independent books sales—Labyrinth closed last year 
and Atticus and Book Trader are sustained largely by 
their cafes. Without the publicity and local backing 
of nonprofit and book bank New Haven Reads, the 
crowd drawn to Never Ending Books is necessarily self-
selecting. It remains even more of a wonder that Never 
Ending Books has maintained business. By encouraging 
the physical experience of reading, Uihlein said he aims 
to support the cause of the entire book industry. 


The financial operation of the space remains 
shrouded in as much mystery, if not more, as the 
store’s hours. A donation jar on the countertop of the 
kitchenette in the back contains some crumpled bills 
and a great deal of change. Behind this, out of sight, are 
some offices, such as those of the Rainbow Recycling 
Company, one of the main financial contributors to 
Never Ending Books. Uihlein is not willing to divulge 
much about how he has kept his store running for the 
dissipation of that mode of thinking.


Over the past hundred years, artifacts have come to 
be viewed as both national and international patrimony. 
Right now, the Machu Picchu collection can leave Peru 
for no more than two years at a time for circulating 
exhibitions. Peru recognizes the educational significance 
of these objects, and that they should be made available 
to as wide an audience around the world as possible. But 
it would seem that the key to successful collaboration 
is the understanding that the artifacts should always be 
able to go back home.


Earlier this month, Prieto helped pack up the final 
set of the Machu Picchu artifacts for shipment back 
to Peru. They will soon make a journey that Prieto 
has made countless times, bridging a gap between two 
hemispheres.
– Arielle Stambler
Katharine Konietzko



**Title: Making the Grade Up**
**Author: Emily Efland**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

8
The New Journal
Tom James stood at the head of his algebra 
classroom his back to a poster that urged students to 
“question everything.” For my benefit, he asked his 
students if they knew the basics of their school’s new 
philosophy. Why had High School in the Community 
decided to eliminate grades in favor of a mastery-based 
evaluation system? Fifteen first-year students stared 
back at him in brief, confused silence.


“So we can get ready for college and stuff,” one girl 
offered after a few seconds.


The magnet school’s new system replaces grades 
with numbers, one through four, to indicate how well 
students understand a certain concept, with a three 
indicating a satisfactory passing score. Although they 
still have homework and tests, in most classes that 
have implemented the system, students may choose to 
test out of a unit when they feel most prepared. The 
school hopes this change will create an environment 
of exploration and understanding, rather than rigid, 
systematic instruction. 


But many students are confused, which springs 
from the fact that they are barely acquainted with the 
new system. It has been in place only since the end of 
August. Administrators would like for them to eventually 
have a measure of control over their own education 
and for the current uncertainty to give way to clarity, 
awareness, and self-determination. 


In the cafeteria one Friday morning, throngs of 
students crowded around small tables for their lunch 
break, laughing and talking. Shawnece Jackson sat alone 
at a small round table, texting. Like the students in 
James’ class, she offered only a hesitant explanation for 
the change.


“It’s helpful…because they want us to graduate and 
[the mastery system] is making it easier,” she faltered. All 
courses for freshmen or “foundation level” students will 
apply the new mastery-based system, and so will some 
upper-level courses. The partial implementation leaves 
some upperclassmen feeling particularly confused.


High School in the Community doesn’t have a 
principal. Instead, it has a Building Leader, an elected 
position currently occupied by Erik Good, a former 
English teacher at the school. An affable, easygoing 
man, he rarely sits in his office, instead spending much 
of his time making rounds and visiting the school’s 
thirty-four teachers and more than two hundred fifty 
students. He maintains a decisive calm that suggests that 
his two years of experience at High School have made 
him comfortable with his position’s requirements.


Good said the school’s courses are designed to 
instill an element of “character education.” He believes 
the magnet school’s major goal is to allow space for 
its students’ individual self-expression within a larger 
community both inside and outside of the explicitly 
educational experience. “How do we function as a 
group, as a country, and still maintain our individuality?” 
he asked. This emphasis on civic values, formalized in 
the curriculum as a “Law and Social Justice” theme , 
hearkens back to the school’s roots in the liberal 1970s, 
when a collective of teachers founded High School in 
the Community as a magnet school.


Because the school transitioned to the mastery-
based system so recently, teachers and administrators 
have not yet decided how to apply it practically. One 
difficulty lies in determining the bare minimum students 
must know in order to “master” a subject. How can 
teachers determine the exact limit of comprehension 
while ensuring that students graduate in a timely fashion? 
Academic Coordinator Chris Kafoglis, who oversees 
curriculum and teaching at the school, stresses the 
commitment of the school’s employees to laying down a 
concrete framework for the mastery system, something 
they hope to develop over the next three years. 


The goal, Kafoglis asserts, is that the overall system 
emphasizes continuous, necessarily self-motivated 
learning.


“There are lots of kids who have been told in middle 
school, if you don’t do this you’re going to be held back, 
and over and over and over again they’re not held back,” 
Kafoglis stressed. “The difficulty [with mastery-based 
learning] is that when kids have been getting by with 
a sixty, they have to learn to make progress now.” 


To ease his students into the new system, James 
encourages them to think of each assignment as another 
“draft” until they reach the acceptable mastery levels of 
three or four. Students should only request to test out of 
a unit when they feel prepared. James said students who 
initially attempted to use the system as an opportunity 
to avoid all tests became self-motivated once they fell 
behind classmates who progressed independently 
through topics. 


“Every week that goes by, I see more students start 
to understand what the point is,” he said. Good said that 
he hopes they will by the end of the year.


More radical plans have yet to be implemented. 
Eventually, teachers and administrators say classes 
may be eliminated entirely, with students working at 
their own pace and receiving occasional guidance from 
instructors. But both student understanding and the 
mastery system itself have many stages of development 
ahead. Administrators must communicate their big ideas 
for the future first and foremost with students to ensure 
both develop in tandem with one another.
– Emily Efland



**Title: SNAPSHOT**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Eva Song ’14 sets up an 
inflatable mattress in her 
apartment, perparing to host 
a stranger through an 
online community called 
Couch Surfing.


**Title: Surfing CT**
**Author: Gideon Broshy**
**Page number(s): 11-12**

Eva Song’s one-bedroom apartment, on the sixth 
floor of Taft Apartments at 265 College St., 
is cluttered. A tall black loft bed stands in the 
center, surrounded by various objects: a painting of a 
Venetian mask hangs to the floor with cardboard boxes 
full of rolled-up artwork underneath; a bookshelf on 
the other side of the room holds The Official Guide to 
the GRE, Frida Kahlo: Song of Herself, and manuals 
for Adobe Illustrator and InDesign; two coffee tables, 
both from Ikea, face each other at awkward angles. 
	

On the floor, Song has set up an air mattress 
for the strangers she regularly invites to pass through 
her apartment, when she temporarily pushes the bean 
bags and other colorful debris to the side. As I talk to 
Song in her room, I imagine her toiling on an art project 
while the stomach of an unfamiliar traveler rises and 
falls heavily across the room.
	

Song is a member of Couch Surfing, an online 
network through which travelers can contact locals for 
a place to stay and find people who will offer them a 
mattress to stay on, and possibly food, a tour, a party, or 
advice. Since she joined the network two summers ago, 
she has hosted and met students and travelers from all 
over the world. 
	

A small but vibrant community of New Haven 
Couch Surfers exists within and beyond Yale. Couch 
Surfing allows Song — and the few other Yale students 
involved— an escape from what she describes as a 
culture of single-mindedness at the university. For these 
students, inviting strangers into their homes is a way 


to connect with a network of travelers who envision a 
more interwoven, understanding world.
	

Song, an art and political science double major, 
is from Chengdu, China. Originally enrolled in the class 
of 2013, she took a gap year after a freshman year filled 
with confusion and self-doubt. “Before college I just 
knew I was going to go to America, that was the plan,” 
she tells me, while sitting in a pile of art supplies and 
cosmetics on her floor, “but when I came here I didn’t 
really have a goal anymore, a plan.” 
 She needed, urgently, to get away. In her year off she, 
among other things, worked at a radio show in Uganda, 
volunteered at a school outside Beijing, took a diving 
course in Australia, and travelled through Europe. 
Going away gave Song perspective, and after a year she 
was ready to return.
	

When Song came back to Yale for her 
sophomore year, she lived on campus in Pierson 
College. The following summer, she made a permanent 
move to her current apartment and began hosting 
foreigners passing through the city. Bringing in people 
with outside perspectives, like those she had observed 
while travelling, helped Song accustom to being at Yale 
once more. Couch Surfing has provided her an escape 
from the goal-oriented attitude that can pervade life at 
Yale. “People tend to get similar if they stick together 
for too long,” she explained.
	

Couch Surfing purports to be “a global network 
of travelers, adventure seekers and lifelong learners” 
valuing diversity, openness, and sharing. Based in San 
Francisco, the Couch Surfing project was conceived by 
Casey Fenton in 1999. Fenton came up with the idea 
after, finding an inexpensive flight from Boston to 
Iceland, he e-mailed 1,500 students from the University 
of Iceland asking for a place to stay, and received more 
than 50 offers. Couchsurfing.com went public in January 
2004; eight years later, the site has 5.2 million members 
and is the most popular free accommodation site on the 
web. The United States has the most Couch Surfers in 
the world, followed by Germany, France, England and 
Photos by Henry Ehrenberg
The living room of  216 Dwight Street, with the couch that 
sometimes sleeps strangers.



**Couch Surfing: A Global Network of Empathy**
**Author: [Not specified]**
**Page number(s): 13-14**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Couch Surfing is changing the nature of 
travel. When I travelled around Europe last summer 
— without the help of Couch Surfing — I felt most 
connected to the cultures I experienced when interacting 
with the people I met along the way. Having meaningful 
conversations with the man renting me a bike a town 
outside of Paris, or the Swiss man and his mother on 
a train through the heart of Germany, or even a roofer 
from Oakland who had been at the running of the bulls 
in Pamplona the week before, made me feel like I was 
part of a greater global network and sharpened my sense 
of how the world works.


According to Jeremy Rifkin, a best-selling 
author and economic advisor to the European 
Parliament, the technological and economic innovations 
that have pushed human history forward are also pulling 
us together. In his book The Empathetic Civilization, 
Rifkin argues that we have a natural impulse toward 
empathy and that globalization 
nurtures this impulse by exposing 
us to more people from more 
places. We have moved, he claims, 
from a macro-society of diffuse, 
conflicting communities to a 
more cohesive, communicative 
one. I believe that Couch Surfing 
is both a result and an agent of 
this change—it exists because 
the world is increasingly tolerant, 
and it helps to connect individual 
communities even further. 


In 
the 
past 
three 
years, undergraduates living off 
campus at 216 Dwight St. have 
hosted many Couch Surfers, and 
it became a tradition of the house. Travelers slept in a 
sunny nook on the house’s first floor — last year, there 
were two comfortable black sofas perfect for weary 
bodies, and they had extra mats in case people come in 
groups larger than two.


When Brandon Jackson ‘13 lived there last year, 
he and his housemates hosted seven groups of Surfers 
from Germany, China, Poland, and Russia as well as 
within the US. One girl visiting from Asheville, North 
Carolina, came to New Haven to undergo month-long 
treatment for Lyme disease, and the housemates offered 
to let her stay for an extended period of time. The first 
night she was in the house, she figured out how to fix 
their house’s fireplace, which had been broken for years. 
She also offered to pay some money for the utilities bill.


There’s an unspoken code of ethics among Surfers, 
Jackson said. Many offer to help out around the 
house or contribute to the household in any way 
they can. People know and respect the etiquette. “If not, 
it quickly escalates into an uncomfortable situation,” he 
said. But the code differs by country. Like Song, Jackson 
took a year off from Yale, in his case after sophomore 
year. He has Surfed about fifty times in his travels 
around Europe and the United States. None of his hosts 
asked him to cook or clean in the European countries 
he stayed in. “When I was traveling, I was treated like a 
prince,” he said. 


Jackson lives on campus this year in Calhoun 
and plans to host travelers in his single this year. He 
said he would give up his bed and spend the night 
somewhere else. He said he hosts Couch Surfers because 
the happiness he gains from it never diminishes, even 
as he brings in more and more people. Each experience 
seems brand new.


The New Haven Couch 
Surfing community gets together 
once in a while—they had three 
or four meetups last spring. 
People connect through the 
online Yale/New Haven group 
on the Couch Surfing website, 
which consists mostly of Yale 
students and alumni. When I 
browse the site’s accompanying 
discussion board, I find a wide 
variety of requests. A Yale couple 
from Ohio, “Mike and Jing,” are 
looking for someone to move 
into a house a one-minute walk 
away from New Haven’s beach 
on the Long Island Sound. In 
July, a user named Dessi sent out a message asking 
for participants in “Tuesday Trivia.” Shawn and Molly 
Persinger advertised a musical event: “PRESTER JOHN: 
Live House Concert.” A man named Torsten asked the 
board where he could find 0.0 strength colored contact 
lenses near New Haven. The nature of the community 
allows them to ask for almost anything and they seem 
to expect their requests, no matter how peculiar, to be 
answered. In addition to connecting travelers in person, 
Couch Surfing has established a culture of expectation 
and reward, of communal exchange.  


Most Couch Surfers that stay with hosts from 
the Yale/New Haven group are students. Jeeva John, 
a fourth year medical student at the University of 
Glasgow, traveled from Scotland to New Haven to work 
with a Yale neurologist for five weeks last summer. She 
In addition to 
connecting travelers 
in person, Couch 
Surfing has established 
a culture of  expectation 
and reward, of  
communal exchange.


**Ornithology**
**Author: Felicity Sheehy ’14**
**Page number(s): 14**

You are not good
at lying in wait
by slits in wooden hides
or crawling on your stomach
through moorland
to peer over cliffs
for a single, shimmering egg.
The specialists,
with their brimmed hats
and new binoculars,
their careful speech
and mind for populations --
“200, 000 off these cliffs, alone” –
delight you:
they talk of specimens 
and graphs,
their print marches birdlike
over lined pages.
Still, in these open places,
you always find yourself
wandering off
through common scurveygrass
and kidneyvetch,
past the delicate balloons
of sea campion
and the yellow tongue
of bird’s foot trefoil
speaking the names
of the unseen:
curlew, razorbill, skua,
wheatear, kittiwake --
this incantation of nothing
or wings.


**Couch Surfing: An Intimate Experience**
**Page number(s): 15**

met up with Song a few times in New Haven and the 
two travelled together to visit Boston. John said taking a 
trip with a stranger “was sort of a leap of faith I guess, 
but it made the whole experience less lonely, more 
interesting.”


The intimacy that results from Couch Surfing 
is singular. “There’s an immediacy to the relationships 
formed through Couch Surfing,” said Hans Schoenburg 
’10, who has been hosting since his senior year at Yale, 
when he lived at 216 Dwight. “It’s not like ‘break the 
ice,’ it’s ‘go straight to the heart.” He still regularly hosts 
travelers in his New Haven home.


Song sometimes feels awkward around her 
Surfers when she first meets them, but that discomfort 
soon wears off. The intensity of Couch Surfing 
relationships is exciting to her. “People can be interesting 
in little bits—you get little tastes of people,” she said. 
She has had conversations with her Surfers about her 
problems, her relationships, her anxieties, ones that she 
wouldn’t have with her closest friends. 


Clément Casse, a student from France studying 
for a master’s in economics, stayed with Song for ten 
days last summer, and they took a spontaneous trip to 
Niagara Falls together. Couch Surfers often act at the 
spur of the moment, milking the personal connections 
they make. The interactions mirror Rifkin’s vision of a 
tighter-knit planet made up of transitory relationships 
between strangers.


The current residents of 216 Dwight — six juniors 
who moved in this fall — have not hosted any 
Surfers yet. They plan to have a house meeting to 
discuss the possibility at the end of this semester, after 
they get used to living together. Sebastian Monzon ’14 
said he is excited at the prospect of meeting new people 
from interesting places. He likes the idea of the network, 
of bringing people together and sharing stories, but he 
is also a little tentative about the responsibility hosting 
entails. 


Although technically he is bringing visitors into 
the Yale bubble by hosting Couch Surfers, Jackson said 
his experiences also help him step outside of the stress 
and pressure that comes with being an undergraduate at 
the university.


Once he hosted a man from southwest China 
who was “giddy” to be touring Yale’s campus. Jackson 
returned to his room one night, overloaded with 
homework and activities, and vented about it to his 
new housemate. He said the man ordered him to stop 
working and to have tea with him instead, snapping him 
out of his anger and giving him a better perspective on 
his situation. 


Song also indicated that part of Couch Surfing 
is almost therapeutic. Going away for a year balanced 
her, gave her perspective, prepared her to return to 
college. By bringing strangers into her home, she keeps 
her hand outstretched to the world that brought her in.


The number of  Couch Surfers by country, according to the social 
media website.



**Title: SNAPSHOT Dead in the Pots**
**Author: Eric Boodman**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
16
The New Journal
A chain swings in the salty breeze blocking the waterfront in front of Fair Haven Clam & Lobster, and three “No Trespassing—Keep Out” signs hang in prominent places. The barrel of a revolver points out of yet another sign, which leans in the upper window of the house. “Never Mind the Dog, Beware of Owner,” it says. 

The owner, Michael Fraenza, is a beefy, tattooed lobsterman. For the last fifty years, he has motored out from this dock six or seven mornings a week to fish in the Long Island Sound. Like his Fair Haven property, he exhibits attributes that are true to the Northeastern lobstering culture: a plainspoken unsociability and a close connection to the sea. 

That culture could be on the brink of extinction in parts of Connecticut. Since the late 1990s, when lobsters in the Western Long Island Sound mysteriously began to die rapidly in large quantities, the crustaceans have been scarce in the Western Sound’s mucky bottom. Scientists cannot resolve why, and different theories pit the lobstermen and the state against each other. This summer Connecticut lobstermen organized a press conference at the Guilford Lobster Pound to protest a moratorium proposed by the state’s Department of


17
October 2012
Energy and Environmental Protection, but their efforts may have been more symbolic than practical. 

“None of ‘em left,” Fraenza said when I asked him about New Haven lobstermen. Fraenza himself no longer catches lobsters, though he still identifies as a lobsterman—the die-off forced him to switch to conches and clams. 

We usually attribute the death of subcultures to Westernization or nationalist regimes, but the decline of the Connecticut lobsterman is harder to source. The lobstermen’s troubles began with the die-off—but what caused the die-off in the first place? Politicians, scientists, lobstermen, and economists have been arguing about the answer to that question since 1999, when lobstermen first reported the loss of lobsters in their waters. 

Like many of his colleagues, 
Fraenza believes that while the 
government blames the lobstermen 
for the die-off, the real culprit is 
the state’s spraying of insecticides 
to prevent West Nile Virus. “They 
sprayed again just last week,” he 
said. “I know a guy who’s fishing 
down in Greenwich, and he’s 
pulling ‘em up dead in the pots.” 

The lobstermen’s hypothesis 
isn’t that far-fetched. West Nile 
Virus first appeared in North America in 1999, beginning with a smattering of dead crows in the streets around the Bronx Zoo. Then the zoo’s birds started keeling over as well. Human New Yorkers came next. Mosquitoes were transmitting West Nile Virus, it turned out, from birds to humans. 

The idea of a mosquito-transmitted epidemic in New York City was terrifying. The government began to use insecticides widely: Planes sprayed the toxins over Connecticut and Long Island while crews doused the streets of Manhattan and the woods of Central Park. 

Lobstermen say that these chemicals seeped into the water of the Western Sound and poisoned the lobsters, causing the massive die-off of the late 1990s. And because there continue to be outbreaks of West Nile, municipalities continue to spray these substances. If only the government would stop, the lobstermen believe, the lobster populations would bounce back. 

Scientists are not so sure. A week after I spoke to Fraenza outside Fair Haven Lobster & Clam, I met with Carmela Cuomo, a marine ecologist at University of New Haven. Cuomo researched the lobster die-off, and she feels that understanding what happened then can help us piece together what is going on now at the bottom of the Sound. 

Cuomo describes her worldview as “Native American-Zen-Buddhist-Catholic” and she professes an awe of the intricate machinery of the world. She talked to me about people-watching in airports and about the ants on the moonflowers in her garden, about six-foot-tall worms in underwater valleys and about the way “we are slowly but ever so surely moving away from Europe even as we sit” across from each other in a café. Even when she talked about the lobster die-off, which she considers tragic, her excitement was palpable. 

“It was a puzzle, it was like CSI Lobster,” she said, describing the meeting in April of 1999 where the lobstermen of the Western Sound told scientists what they had seen. The lobsters 
“weren’t their normal lobster 
selves. You know, growly. They 
were just bluh,” said Cuomo, 
sticking out her tongue and 
letting her hands go limp. “And 
then they’d die.” And this was 
only happening in the Western 
basin of the Long Island Sound: 
the lobsters in the Central and 
Eastern basins were fine.

With these clues, Cuomo 
and the other scientists tried 
to track down what was killing 
the lobsters. At the lobstermen’s suggestion, they first tested the pesticide hypothesis. This explanation was compelling: more pesticides were sprayed around the Western Sound, because of the proximity to New York City, and one of the insecticides used to combat West Nile could plausibly have caused some of the symptoms exhibited by the lobsters. The insecticide killed mosquito larvae by turning them into adults before they were ready—imagine a human fetus born only three months into pregnancy—and the lobstermen were pulling up lobsters that had shed their shells long before their new shells were ready to harden. 

To test whether these insecticides were killing the lobsters, the scientists created a computerized model of the Long Island Sound, incorporating the interactions of currents, water quality, and weather patterns. When they inputted the insecticides, though, they found that a relatively insignificant amount of these chemicals reached the bottom where the lobsters live. The models determined that there would not have been enough insecticides in the bottom water to kill lobsters even if there had been five or ten times the levels observed. 

Meanwhile, scientists at the University of 
Connecticut were dissecting lobsters that had been


18
caught in the throes of death. Not all of the lobsters they dissected showed traces of insecticides, which confirmed the results of the computer model studies: if all of these lobsters were dying with the same symptoms, and only some of them had traces of pesticides in their bodies, the scientists concluded that insecticides were not the main cause of the epidemic. 

What all the lobsters did have in common was a parasite of the nervous system called Neoparamoeba pemiquidensis. This looked like a prime suspect, Cuomo said. “The problem was, lobsters from Branford, which is in the Central Sound, were found to have this paramoeba in them, but they weren’t exhibiting 
any 
symptoms 
whatsoever.” 

There wasn’t enough genetic 
difference between the Western 
and Central lobsters to explain 
why the paramoeba would kill the 
Western population and not the 
Central one. “Thus the mystery 
deepened,” she said.

Cuomo tried to imagine what 
made the Western Sound different 
from the Central Sound, working 
with basic facts. Of the Sound’s 
three basins, the Western Sound 
is the muddiest and the most 
crowded with lobster traps. When 
she found out that 1999 had been 
the warmest year on record, she 
hit on a diagnosis: certain bacteria 
in the mud were making the water 
both toxic and hypoxic.  

Hypoxic conditions occur when the amount of oxygen being introduced is less than the oxygen that is being used: it means that there isn’t quite enough oxygen to go around.  In the late 1990s, the water of the Western Long Island Sound appeared to have many elements that could cause hypoxia.  

One of these elements is excess organic matter. When plants and animals die in coastal waters like the Sound, their remains sink through the water and come to rest on the bottom where they may sink deeply into the mud. Usually, most animal corpses are broken down by oxygen-breathing bacteria. Sometimes, however, they are buried in mud beyond the level where oxygen can penetrate. The remains are then feasted on by bacteria that use nitrate and sulfate instead of oxygen. In doing so, these bacteria produce ammonia and hydrogen sulfide, which eliminate oxygen as they move up from the mud into the water. Ammonia can also be toxic to lobsters, making them lethargic.  

The more dead stuff floating around, the likelier hypoxia is.  And there was certainly enough dead stuff. For years, erosion in coastal areas had allowed organic matter to collect in the Sound.  And then there was the mackerel and other fish used as lobster bait. “The lobstermen told me they put down a minimum of three pounds of bait per pot per week,” Cuomo said. “There were legally one hundred thousand pots in Western Sound. As we all know, there were a lot more than the licensed pots, but if we only go with licensed pots, you’re talking about adding 300, 000 pounds of organic matter to the Western Sound a week.”  

That means that bacteria 
were eating up an awful lot of 
oxygen while breaking down all 
of that dead matter. As if this 
wasn’t bad enough on its own, the 
bacteria were working faster due 
to the warmed water. On top of 
it all, the warmer water can hold 
less oxygen than cold water can. 
Even 
without 
hypoxia, 
lobsters don’t like warm water. 
The combination of the two was 
creating some pretty stressed out 
lobsters. Cuomo called it “the 
perfect warm.”

Imagine being trapped with 
numerous other people in a 
stifling hot room without much 
air.  Now imagine that there is 
an infection going around, and 
that the walls are made of asbestos. This is roughly the situation in which Western Long Island Sound lobsters found themselves at the end of the 1990s. Officially, the paramoeba was finishing them off, but it didn’t have to work very hard. “If you had sneezed on these lobsters, they would have died,” Cuomo said. “They were under so much stress.”

In 2003, Carmela Cuomo was selected by her colleagues to deliver this complex verdict at a press conference in Bridgeport. “It was both an honor, and kind of like being thrown to the wolves,” she said. The lobstermen didn’t like the findings she presented. 

“The lobstermen were hoping it was the pesticides, because if it could be proven that it was the pesticides, they could turn around and sue the municipality, and sue the makers of the pesticides,” Cuomo said. “That’s fixable.” The lobstermen could have lived off the lawsuit money until the lobsters came back. But the lobster population never really came back. “This killed their livelihood.”



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Brianne Bowen**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
When she stood in front of the podium at Stony 
Brook, presenting the discoveries she and her colleagues 
had made about the die-off, Cuomo became the face of 
the scientific establishment. “I was personally vilified 
by Billy Joel,” she said. “He was out defending the 
lobstermen.”

Cuomo is sympathetic to the plight of the 
lobstermen. Her cousin is a lobsterman, and she 
supports the lobster-catching culture. “I am not anti-
lobsterman,” she said again and again. 

Yet lobstermen like Michael Fraenza still blame the 
government for the die-off, and hold a grudge against 
the scientists who determined that insecticides were 
not the primary cause. The Connecticut Department 
of Energy and Environmental Protection  continues 
to conduct research on the insecticides, as yet without 
conclusions. “They’re really killing us,” Fraenza told me. 
“I’ve been in the business for fifty years, and I’m just 
barely hanging on.”

In order to make ends meet, Fraenza traded his 
wire-mesh lobster pots for metal dredges that sweep up 
conches and clams. Shellfish get pushed into the bars at 
the back of the dredge by a jet of water. It is hard not to 
see the lobstermen’s fate in the work of the dredge. The 
lobstermen too have been pushed into a corner by an 
unfortunate confluence of circumstances. 

Fraenza still goes out at six every morning aboard 
the Rock’n’Roll, while the fishermen he has hired man 
his other two boats. New hires still lean overboard, 
puking their guts out for the first week. Fraenza keeps 
his eye on the horizon, checking for the next day’s 
weather. And families still brave the forbidding exterior 
of Fair Haven Clam & Lobster to buy fresh seafood. 
But it isn’t the same. The lobsters crawling around in the 
green, algae-covered basins now come from Maine and 
eastern Canada. 

“I hear stories of hundreds and hundreds and 
hundreds of lobsters coming in,” said Evette Gilbert, 
who sells the seafood for Fraenza from the basement 
room of Fair Haven Clam & Lobster. “They say people 
were lined up down the street to buy lobsters. Back then 
Michael was doing better.”

A family comes into the room, which is cooled by 
seawater cycling through the lobster tanks, and they pick 
out three crustaceans, one for each of them. They know 
that in a few hours, these antennae will stop twiddling 
and these tails will stop flicking. What they don’t know is 
how many tails and claws and antennae probed the mud 
a few nautical miles away just twenty years ago. They 
don’t know that these mud-dwellers gave rise to a unique 
lifestyle in and around New Haven; nor do they know 
just how rare that lifestyle has become.


**Title: Where the Art Is:**
**Author: Adela Jaffe**
**Page number(s): 21**

O
n March 31, self-taught artist and high-fashion 
lover Gordon Skinner hosted his 35th birthday 
party in the basement of Gilt Bar. Guests–
including Shante Skinner, his half-sister and confidante, 
Bob Albert, his friend and agent, and Coco and Breezy 
Dotson, twin sisters and designers of a celebrity-
approved accessories line who posed with Skinner’s art 
in Dekit Magazine–yelled into each other’s ears as a DJ 
played hip hop at jack hammer decibels. Skinner drank 
directly from a bottle of Moet & Chandon. 

He had reason to celebrate: In January, only three 
years after he began painting, his first solo show opened 
at the New Haven Public Library. He was then profiled 
in the New Haven Independent and interviewed on local 
TV station WTNH. While the stories featured Skinner’s 
colorful, figural, and mask-like paintings, they also 
examined his background. Skinner grew up in New 
Haven’s South Church Street housing project. His 
absent father was a heroin addict who subsequently died 
from AIDS when Skinner was 15. When he was 10, his 
mother and stepfather moved to suburban Hamden, 
where Skinner felt isolated as one of the few black kids 
in school. His paintings are an attempt to give voice to 
the community in which he grew up, which, he says, is 



**Title: The Art of the Outsider**
**Author: Brianne Bowen**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
22
The New Journal
not often represented in popular contemporary art. “I 
want to be a voice for the people,” he said. 

If the party also seemed like a prequel, it was 
because Skinner did not yet feel like he had been able 
to share that voice. He wanted more recognition from 
what he called the “elitist” and “pretentious” art world. 
He wanted to start selling his paintings so that he could 
quit his jobs and paint full time. He wanted, someday, to 
move from New Haven to New York, where there are 
more artists and arts-related events. 

A week later, I sat with Skinner outside the Brooklyn 
Museum, talking about an exhibit we had just seen by 
famed visual artist Keith Haring. Skinner told me that he 
hoped to someday have his work displayed in a museum. 
Before that, though, he just wanted to be able to paint 
on his own terms. “I’ve worked for people all my life,” 
he said. “This is my time.” 

When I met Skinner last spring, I knew nothing 
about the process of becoming a professional artist. 
The art world was more of a mystery to me than it was 
to him. Even after speaking to artists, collectors, gallery 
owners, and a Yale History of Art professor, I did not 
understand what qualities distinguished art shown in 
expensive Chelsea galleries from art that was never seen. 

In the process of exploring these questions, I 
found two different spaces in New Haven that try to 
break down these barriers in the art world. Artspace, 
a New Haven nonprofit, gives artists strategies to get 
their work seen within a traditional gallery framework, 
as well as exhibition opportunities in both conventional 
and unconventional spaces. People’s Arts Collective, a 
newly founded organization trying to break down the 
art world’s economic and racial boundaries, aims not to 
operate within traditional frameworks at all. I realized 
that while access to more resources might make it easier 
for an artist to reach a broad audience, some artists 
choose to define their own success instead of allowing it 
to be dictated by a standard measure of popularity. 

Artspace was founded in 1984 by a group of 
local artists seeking more opportunities to share their 
work with the public. It regularly hosts exhibitions in 
its gallery space on Orange Street and also helps artists 
get seen in other venues. This October, Artspace kicked 
off the fifteenth annual iteration of City-Wide Open 
Studios, which allows nearly three hundred artists in the 
area to share their work with the public–far more than 
could be featured in New Haven’s galleries in a year. 

The non-profit’s Executive Director Helen Kauder said 
CWOS “is a very democratic, inclusive event.” Anyone 
who defined him or herself as a visual artist was invited 
to participate, just as anyone can become an Artspace 
member. Over the course of the first three weekends 
of this October, CWOS will be bringing visitors to 
artists’ private studios in New Haven, North Haven, and 
Hamden, to the group of studios in a former factory in 
Erector Square, and to site-specific art installations in 
the New Haven Register building. 


23
October 2012
Because there are only four commercial galleries, 
three co-op galleries and three non-profit galleries in 
New Haven and only a handful more in the surrounding 
region, according to Cynthia Clair, the Executive 
Director of the Arts Council of New Haven, getting 
art into them often proves difficult. Skinner spent two 
years driving to galleries in New Haven, Bridgeport, 
Westport, and Stamford, a painting or two sitting in his 
trunk, hoping to convince them to display his work. For 
years, he had little success. 

On the last Sunday in September, twenty-three 
curators, gallery directors, and art scholars– the kind of 
professionals Skinner needs to impress to get his work 
seen–gathered at Artspace for “Speed/Networking/
Live!” Artists had three minutes 
to explain their work to the 
professionals, who responded 
with two minutes of feedback. 
“There are many occasions when 
an artist might meet a collector, a 
curator, or someone who works at 
a museum, and the artist doesn’t 
have his or her work there, 
but has an opportunity to say 
something,” Kauder said. “The 
question is, how does an artist 
put his or her best foot forward?” 

The event was an opportunity 
for artists to try up to twenty-
three ways of talking about their 
work in the most compelling way. 
Daniel Belasco, a New York-
based freelance curator who 
participated in the networking 
event both this year and last year, said, “[Artists] could 
practice their pitch in the shower. What’s most important 
is to get feedback.”

As Kauder prepped the professionals inside, JP 
Culligan, an artist and an Artspace employee, stood 
outside and asked the arriving artists to wait on the street 
until the event’s one p.m. start time. Culligan grew up 
in New Haven and graduated from the Hartford Art 
School with a degree in printmaking. He told me that 
because a lot of art internships, jobs, and exhibitions 
require resumes and artist statements, he values the 
opportunity to meet these professionals face-to-face. “I 
tend to do better with these things when I actually get to 
talk to people,” he said. Bryant Davis brought printouts 
of his digital art, which he calls “homoceptual blending” 
and which involves breaking down JPEG files. He 
agreed with Culligan. “It’s nice to actually get to meet 
somebody and talk to them,” he said. Like Culligan, 
Davis formally studied art, graduating from The New 
School’s Parsons School of Design.

Skinner, on the other hand, did not go to art school 
or college, and he didn’t know that Artspace hosted 
networking events in addition to being a gallery space. 
On September 20th, when his second solo show, “Hard 
Works,” opened at the DaSilva Gallery in New Haven’s 
Westville neighborhood, the reception was primarily 
attended by his friends, family, and previous supporters. 
He is frustrated by the difficulties in getting the other 
people he wants to see his paintings– including those 
who run art foundations, contemporary art museums, 
and large commercial galleries–to attend a show at a small 
gallery in Westville. “The biggest problem,” he said, “is 
the disconnect between myself 
and the movers and shakers in 
the art world.” His agent Albert 
agrees that getting art into 
galleries is difficult, “especially if 
you don’t have a resume already, 
if you haven’t shown at such and 
such galleries or graduated from 
such and such schools.” Albert, 
a cinematographer and self-
described “marketing consultant,” 
met Skinner at the Fernando Luis 
Alvarez Gallery in Stamford while 
Albert was filming a reception. 
The two men became friends, and 
Albert subsequently made a short 
documentary about Skinner. Like 
Skinner, Albert is an outsider in 
the art world, despite having some 
experience in the film industry.  

While Skinner may resent his separation from the 
more traditional art world, his position as an outsider 
also shapes his art. The poster for “Hard Works” was 
designed to mimic a timesheet, a reference to Skinner’s 
working class background and the eighty hours a week 
he works as an aide to developmentally disabled adults. 
Some of his paintings, like “Crack Baby” and “Jesus 
Piece” explicitly reference the poverty, drugs, and 
diseases he encountered during his childhood. 

Sometimes Skinner worries that gallery owners 
“want to see me in a cardboard box, living under my 
paintings or some shit,” so that they can swoop in and 
save him, and that his art isn’t as appealing to them once 
they find out that his personal narrative isn’t quite that 
dramatic. Trying to gain their approval, and crafting a 
compelling story to draw them in, frustrates Skinner on 
principle, but he believes that it is necessary. Seeking 
validation “can go against everything you stand for in 


24
your work, but you kind of need that,” he said. 

Not everyone agrees that validation from the 
traditional art world is necessary for success. Kenneth 
Reveiz ’12, one of the founders of the People’s Arts 
Collective, said that “a lot of art spaces can be really 
alienating, whether it’s because people don’t have the 
money or because it’s not part of their culture or habit 
to go to galleries.” According to its website, PAC is a 
“group of artists and activists collaborating to address 
social, racial, economic, environmental and human 
injustices in New Haven.” Reveiz and his cofounders, 
Diana Ofosu ’12 and Gabriel DeLeon ’14, want to use 
art-based interventions to address these injustices.

PAC rents two formerly dilapidated storefronts 
on College Street for $250 a month. All of their events 
and services, which include a take-what-you-like pile 
of clothing and books and classes taught by members 
of the New Haven community, are free. During PAC’s 
weekday open hours, anyone is welcome to come in and 
create art–or just hang out.

When I visited PAC to speak with its founders, I 
did not understand their specific goals; I knew nothing 
beyond the mission statement. They told me that 
art-based interventions are highly aesthetic, mostly 
performative actions that create some change in the 
world. One tactile example of a solvable problem, Ofosu 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Adela Jaffe**
**Page number(s): 25-26**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
25
October 2012
said, is bathroom signs. The way the signs graphically 
represent men and women is alienating to those who may 
not identify with those representations. Ofosu, Reveiz, 
and DeLeon are searching for gender-fluid graphics–
one café in Santa Cruz has a robot graphic on one of its 
bathroom doors and an alien on the other. The point is to 
illustrate that choosing of a bathroom should primarily 
be based on personal preference, Reveiz said. After two 
brainstorming and planning sessions, they plan to gather 
a group to replace bathroom signs around New Haven 
on October 26. “It’s an intervention because it actually 
exists as a change in urban space,” Ofosu said. 
Ofosu and Reveiz both graduated from Yale last 
May, and DeLeon is a member of the class of 2014, 
currently taking a semester off to focus on PAC. 
They have all studied art since coming to New Haven. 
DeLeon is an actor and Theater Studies major. Reveiz 
is a poet and playwright. Ofosu majored in History of 
Art and started creating art of her own during junior 
year, inspired by Guy Debord’s Society of  the Spectacle and 
its interpretation of ethical representations and how 
images function under capitalism. The three share a 
progressive political worldview; Reveiz is a community 
organizer, and he, Ofosu, and DeLeon became close 
with members of the Occupy New Haven movement. 
They started PAC, Reveiz said, because they wanted 
to have an independent voice that was not dictated by 
“some bullshit art world standards, expectations, or 
definitions of success.” They said they are presenting an 
alternative way of living, one that “provides resources 
for people outside dominant modes of capitalism.” By 
creating a space where anyone can create art, they are 
empowering members of the New Haven community. 
Their Yale education may seem at odds with their 
radical language. By applying to and attending an Ivy 
League university, they have already sought out a very 
traditional measure of success. But they said they all still 
feel that they are outside the structures of privilege that 
govern the art world.  “What we look like and who we 
are is very much not the norm in the art world or who 
runs any organization,” they said. Ofosu came to Yale 
intending to major in classics. She found it difficult that 
her coursework was dominated by the traditional white 
male canon, and that her perspective as a black woman 
was not represented. Coming up against what she 
described as Yale’s “traditional, old boys’ club” taught 
her that she does not align with that aspect of Yale’s 
identity and reputation. At the same time, she says she 
wouldn’t be where she is now without her experience 
at the university. In fact, it seems unlikely that PAC 
would exist if the founders had not had access to Yale’s 
intellectual and institutional resources. Their place in 
New Haven’s art world is defined on some level by this 
privilege, and they hope to use it to create an alternative 
space for creation and expression. At an event called 
“Stew and Stencies” in October, the group of attendees 
was diverse: Yalies, curious passersby on the street, New 
Haven activists, homeless New Havenites, people who 
just wanted stew, and people who just wanted to make 
stencils. PAC passes out flyers in Fair Haven as well as 
downtown, and hopes to engage and empower members 
of multiple communities by giving them a space to make 
art and, ideally, change.  


O
n October 13, “Hard Works” transferred from the 
DaSilva Gallery to the Afro-American Cultural 
Center at Yale. Before it closes on November 12, Skinner 
hopes that some of the art world insiders who did not 
make it to the DaSilva gallery will come to the show, 
perhaps drawn in by the Yale-centric location. “I’m really 
looking forward to being in institutions,” he said. But it 
is unclear what will come of the exhibition, and whether 


---

26
The New Journal
TNJ

it will draw the members of the Yale community that 
Skinner thinks it will. Over the summer, he sold his first 
three paintings to a private collector, and another during 
the “Hard Works” reception. But the income generated 
by those sales is not significant enough to allow him to 
leave his jobs, and he is still striving for wider recognition. 
According to Skinner, it is especially difficult 
to be an artist in New Haven. The city is much less 
cosmopolitan than New York and has fewer galleries and 
art institutions.	
But when I brought up this idea at 
Artspace, Culligan disagreed. “In some ways it seems 
like it’s easier to be an artist in New York, but there’s so 
much more competition,” he said. “You’re just a drop 
in the bucket, and New York’s a much bigger bucket.” 
Kauder said that New Haven’s location between Boston 
and New York makes it easier for Artspace to tap into 
the art networks in those cities and bring curators to 
events like Speed Networking, for which twelve of the 
art professionals came from other cities. 
After the “Speed/Networking/Live!” event, I 
looked up many of the artists who participated. Some 
of them had been showing in galleries and even small 
museums across the country for decades. They have 
fruitful careers, and yet most are unlikely to become 
household names.” The more I learned about Artspace 
and PAC, and about the different interpretations of 
recognition and success in the art world, the more I 
wondered whether Skinner was placing too much stock 
in a big break or the transformative powers of fame. 
Shortly after his birthday, Skinner told me, “I’m 
thirty five years old, and I can’t be a famous artist when 
I’m dead. I need that recognition now.” As thrilled as 
he is to be showing at Yale, he still says that he does 
not know what is going to happen next in his career. “I 
don’t know how to connect the dots. I don’t know where 
my break is going to come from.” Skinner’s background 
itself is not an impediment to fame, but his lack of 
access to important resources may be keeping him 
out of the inner circle. His big break may be realizing 
that the power of his voice need not be defined by the 
number of people who choose to hear him.



**Title: A Wooden Boat**
**Author: Molly Hensley-Clancy**
**Page number(s): 29-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I find Bill Clapp standing fifteen feet above the saltwater tides of the Branford River, his reed-thin frame shadowy against a darkening October sky. A thunderstorm is brewing, but Clapp, on the platform of Dutch Wharf Marina’s enormous hydraulic boatlift, has eyes only for the sailboat he is carefully raising from the water. It is a delicate task; the boat weighs more than six tons. Below him, Clapp’s coworkers scramble on the deck. They crane their necks and call up to him: “This go here, Bill?” “How’s it look from up there, Bill?” “We good?” Clapp calls down.	
“We’re good.” It begins to drizzle just as the hull of the sailboat clears the riverbank, and the men on the docks exchange glances. “Bill, you know it’s lunchtime?”  
“It is?” Up above us, a sailboat in his hands, Clapp has lost track of time. The rain falls harder, sweeping across the water in heavy sheets, but he simply flicks his rubber hood over his head. His fingers return to the levers of the lift. Almost eagerly, he says, “Give me a few more minutes.” 
They call Bill Clapp the guardian angel of the boatyard. After twenty-two years at Dutch Wharf, he is more than qualified to work as a supervisor or yard foreman, but, as he sheepishly says, he’s “not the management type.” Clapp is nobody’s boss. Managers spend most of their time inside a neat, carpeted building, making phone calls and tapping at keyboards. Clapp does everything else. In the winter, he repairs boats, sanding and polishing their wood, replacing rotted planks and varnishing masts. He resurfaces decks, sairs keels, and carves tillers. In the fall, he lifts, cleans, and transports the boats, storing them on spindly metal legs, or boat stands, until they fill the sprawling gravel lot. 
In the past few weeks, Clapp has lifted stubby lobster boats, tall, angular fishing craft, and sleek powerboats, but mostly he lifts sailboats: yawls, schooners, sloops, ketches. In the yard, from among rows of mass-produced white fiberglass hulls, it is the wooden crafts that stand out, like redwoods growing between buildings of glass and cinderblock. Bill Clapp loves all boats, but these are his obsession.
“A wooden boat is a living thing,” Clapp has told me. He meant that wooden boats speak to him—of history, devotion, mastery, and craftsmanship.  They are the reason why, at 75 years old, he is still here. Still the last one in to lunch, even on days like today, when all he has on his agenda is hours of strenuous manual labor and freezing rain. 

I am fourteen. My grandparents are out alone on the lake when their boat, a fiberglass ketch that my grandpa bought a few months earlier, capsizes. My grandpa has been a sailor all his life, but he has never owned a fiberglass boat before, and it’s more temperamental than his wooden boats—too difficult for an eighty-two-year-old man to control. The water is cold. By now, after years of being medicated for bipolar disorder, my grammie is even frailer than she was in my childhood. Her hair is colorless, her skin pale, her body wrapped in an oversized purple cardigan to keep warm. She loses consciousness and slips beneath the water, and my grandpa, clinging to the side of the boat, cannot hold her up. What hurts most, when my mom tells me what happened, is imagining how afraid they were.

“I’ve always been on the water,” Clapp told me once. 
“And I’ve always had a boat.” 
	Clapp grew up in a narrow white house overlooking the Farm River, which stretches lazily from Lake Saltonstall down through olive-colored saltwater marshes and into Long Island Sound. He had a small wooden skiff, graying from age, that he poled into the Farm River Gut to swim and crab with other boys, and to jump off of dikes built to hold back floods. When he was 8 years old, Clapp realized he and his skiff could go faster if he “used the wind,” and he strung a bedsheet onto the poles. From then on, he sailed.
At 14, Clapp bought his second boat with the salary he earned teaching sailing to the wealthy patrons of a local yacht club, and kept it until 1954, when entered SUNY Maritime College. He sailed in the US Navy and spent two years living on boat number three, a hulking cable-laying ship that was tethered to the ocean floor for hundreds of miles. Clapp told me he liked it—liked the camaraderie, the rush he felt when the captain put him in charge of the craft. 
Clapp married his high school sweetheart, Sis, after two years in the US Navy. “That was the end of my going to sea,” he said wistfully. He got an office job and his fourth boat, a 28-foot ketch that made Clapp’s days as an engineer at Southern Connecticut Telephone Company bearable. In the summer, he stored up vacation time to take his family—Sis and their son and daughter—on long “cruises” to Martha’s Vineyard and the Cape. Those were the times when Clapp was happiest.
After twenty-six years working his way up at the telephone company, Clapp got out as soon as he could. He took a golden handshake and, instead of retiring, went to work at Dutch Wharf.
Then came Tern. The boat belonged to the founder of Dutch Wharf, who passed the boat—and the yard—along to his son, Paul, after his death. It was a 28-foot Hereshoff Rozinante ketch, built only for, as Paul says, “the most experienced of sailors”—no motor, no lifelines, so light and sleek that it could be caught up in even the slightest of breezes. Even Paul couldn’t sail it. He sold the boat to Clapp, his most trusted employee, with the understanding that he was passing on a legacy. 
“It was like he was bringing my father back, in a way,” Paul told me. 
Clapp kept Tern for nineteen years. In the summers, he worked at Dutch Wharf until noon, then returned home. He swam out to where he kept Tern moored in a cove and sailed all afternoon, sometimes cruising up the Long Island Sound, other times simply tracing the waters of the bay he had sailed since he was a boy. Even in the wintertime, Clapp and Tern were rarely apart. In the basement of his Branford home, he crafted and customized its every feature: teak wedges to keep the anchor from rocking, a constellation compass in the cockpit sole, a wood-fired stove. 
When Clapp’s grandchildren began to sail, Sis demanded he replace the Tern with something safer—the 25-foot teak Vertue, a solid, heavy boat originally built to weather the storms of the English Channel. Stowed in its hull is a noisy, bulky motor. 

I am four. Grammie is standing at the counter of my grandpa’s boat, the Squidulum, holding a paper bag from Dahl’s Foods. We are alone in the cabin and she is wearing purple. From the bag, she takes a Tupperware container of homemade coffee cake, a carton of lemonade, and a baggie of the yogurt-covered pretzels that she buys and I devour in bulk. Above us, the sound of my grandpa’s worn boat shoes on the deck seems thunderous, the slap of the waves against the hull even louder. Grammie and I sit together on one of the benches, her arm around me. I am terrified, as the cabin pitches to one side and then another, that we might tip over.
Breathless, my grandpa comes below deck, his khaki pants soaked and his windbreaker glistening with beads of water. He wants me to come up with him, so that I can steer the boat, so that I can see the beautiful lake and look up at the tall white sails. He promises that up there, with him, I will be safe. 
I shake my head and tell him I want to go home. If it were possible for grownups to be sad, Grandpa’s face, before he climbs back up the ladder, would have flashed with a kind of loneliness. 

After lunch, Clapp takes me to the Ayesha, a 46-foot yawl that is the shining star of Dutch Wharf’s wooden craft. Built in 1932, the Ayesha has a deck made from rows of long, narrow planks, steamed until they became pliable and bent like the limb of an archer’s bow. Its brightwork—the varnished wood of the cabin and rails—shows the fine grain of the teak. Unlike Dutch Wharf’s fiberglass boats and those that need a winter’s worth of repairs, the Ayesha will spend most of the offseason in the water, “wet-stored” to keep the hull from drying out.  
	
When Clapp takes me into the Ayesha’s cabin, I feel a wave of claustrophobia, and, for the first time since I came to Dutch Wharf, something akin to real fear. It’s not even the steep, narrow companionway or the low ceilings. It’s the smell. Almost as soon as my foot touches the cabin sole, it hits me: wet, aging wood, varnish, mildew, maybe, hanging heavy in the air. I dig my nails deep into my palms as Clapp shows me the detail work in the galley, trying to breathe through my nose. It’s a relief when we go back above deck.
“Wood boats do best when they’re in the water,” Clapp tells me. He grins, and his thin lips turn up lopsidedly. “That’s when they’re in their natural element.” 



**Title: The Beauty of Wooden Boats**
**Author: Molly Hensley-Clancy**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
neath Clapp’s boots, the Ayesha’s rain-soaked teak deck, 
rich and dark, gleaming as though cast in lamplight, 
seems no better evidence.

Some say a wooden boat’s beauty comes from 
nature, just as the boats themselves do—that wooden 
boats, in reflecting the grain of trees, the wings of birds, 
evoke a visceral need to connect to the natural world. 
Lawrence Cheek, author of The Year of  the Boat, connects 
their beauty to biophilia, an innate tendency born of in­
stincts of survival and reproduction to “focus on life 
and lifelike processes.”  We can see the strong, fanning 
branches of the oak in a sailboat’s hull; the long, elegant 
arms of the cedar in its bowed planks; the buttressed 
roots of the mahogany in the boat’s lustrous brightwork.

The beauty of a wooden boat is also reflected in 
its craftsmanship. It is not manufactured, like fiberglass 
boats; it is built, by hand.  There is something beautiful 
about the sight of a Dutch Wharf employee sitting in 
the shadow of a 38’ sloop and lovingly sanding its tiny 
nameplate. A wooden boat does not just have a person­
ality within it.  It has a person behind it, a person with 
the skill to bend and shape wood and make dull things 
gleam. 

For Clapp, who spends much of the year perform­
ing repairs, part of a wooden boat’s beauty is its con­
struction. “A wooden boat is made of pieces,” he tells 
me frequently. The keel, the stem, the stern, the strake; if 
one of these becomes worn or aged, it can simply be re­
placed.  This is why a wooden boat lasts. Even after years 
of neglect and disrepair, a wooden boat can be put back 
together again, and Bill Clapp can do it. Fiberglass devel­
ops spots and stress cracks, but the beauty of a wooden 
boat, when it’s maintained, only increases with age.

“It’s simply elegant,” Clapp tells me of the Ayesha. 
“Its beauty comes from the craftsmanship, but also from 
being unchanged.” 

Clapp’s apprentice, Mitch, once told me the same 
thing about Clapp.  “Bill comes from another time,” he 
said. “He devotes everything to this. He’s single-minded. 
He’s not a modern guy. Everything everywhere is con­
stantly changing, but not Bill.” 


I 
am sixteen. Even after two years, my grandpa’s big brick house 
feels empty—of  purple, of  pretzels, of  giddy races down the 
front staircase. In the den, as always, sits a big model boat, its 
brass sails tarnished from age. Above the television is a framed 
photo of  Grandpa and Grammie on the deck of  the Squidulum, 
the lake glittering blue behind them. 

“I’ve been going to Lake Rathbun,” Grandpa tells me 
proudly, when he sees me staring at the picture. He spends time at 
the yacht club and sails on the mile-wide lake with his more agile 
friends. “It makes me feel young again,” he likes to say.

To me it feels like a betrayal.


W
hen I leave the Ayesha’s cabin, the rain is falling 
even harder, gusting in my face like sea spray. The 
Left: Bill Clapp stands at Dutch 
Wharf; right: Author Molly Hens­
ley-Clancy, her grandparents, and 
her uncle at Boston Harbor in 1996.


cube-shaped boatlift has been returned to its place, now 
straddling the slip on its four angular metal legs. After 
the lift’s slings have been lowered into the water, the 
boat—a small racing craft—is driven above them, and 
the slings are repositioned snugly around its hull. 

Clapp grins at me from the docks. “You can sit in 
the crane!” he calls through the downpour, gesturing to 
an old blue machine that is used to unstep—remove—
sailboats’ masts. “We’re just about to start.” 

The rain is inescapable, even in the shelter of the 
crane’s cab. It sheets through the open door and drips 
from the cracks in the ceiling. As I have taken to doing 
for the past few weeks, I pull out my notebook and be­
gin to scribble on the damp pages.  If my eyes wander, 
they go to the sailboats’ forebidding masts, their uneven 
decks. It’s better that they don’t.   

“Put down your notepad,” Clapp is used to telling 
me. “Look at this.” 

I look up to see Clapp standing at the door of the 
crane, the corner of his mouth open in a slightly sheep­
ish smile. Beneath the brim of his rubber hood, his an­
gular cheeks are flushed and ruddy from the cold; his 
crooked nose, mottled with a network of dark red veins, 
pokes out. After the boat has been lifted, he explains to 
me, it will be scrubbed, its barnacles scraped away, and 
sprayed with a pressure washing hose. “You could prob­
ably write a whole paper just about pressure washing,” 
he finishes, eagerly. 

Thunder growls in the distance.

“Come on up with me. I want to show you how it 
feels to lift one of these,” he says. 

Before I fully realize it, I am up on the platform 
of the boatlift, the soggy remains of my notebook still 
sitting in the crane. Clapp climbs up after me. Here, the 
wind cuts against us, and my jeans are soon soaked to 
the skin. 

While Clapp monitors the work on the deck of the 
boat below us, explaining to me the intricacies of the 
slings’ placement on the hull, I turn to stare out at the 
river. I know I’m imagining it, but the sky seems a little 
lower up here, pulled closer to the water and the reeds. 
The boats look smaller. Where the flat, low river turns 
away from us, their masts barely scrape against the ho­
rizon. 

“You ready to lift this?” Clapp asks me. He is still 
grinning, almost impishly. 

“Okay.” 

He puts my palm on one of the levers, and then his 
own gloved hand on top of mine. “You’ve got to go real 
slowly,” he says. 

Together, we pull the lever, and the boat begins to 
rise, rise until it is out of the water, until it hangs in front 
of us, suspended in midair, its keel exposed. 


am ten. My grandpa is determined to teach me, his oldest grand­
daughter, to sail, so he builds me a wooden boat in the backyard 
of  his Iowa home. In the single picture that exists of  it, the Molly 
Rose, a ten-foot catboat still without its mast, looks almost like a 
toy, child-sized and slick with new varnish. 

	
We’ll go out on the lake in the boat together, Grandpa 
promises, and he’ll show me how to work the rigging, and how to 
steer. When he mentions it, I say nothing. I don’t want to set foot 
in his boat, even if  it was made for me.

That summer, Grandpa is driving the boat to me for the 
first time when a man rear-ends him on the highway. Before it ever 
touches the water, the Molly Rose splinters apart.


F
our days later, Clapp and I go sailing. For me, it is the 
first time in sixteen years. For Clapp, it is the last sail 
of the season, the end of a summer’s worth of cruises.

	
The day is, like so many on the Connecticut 
coast, gray and still. The cove where Clapp moors the 
Vertue is lined with yellow-gray slabs of granite that 
seemingly slough off the banks into the water. Trees, 
and the umber shell of a long-defunct fishworks, pro­
trude like a spine from the granite island. We float into 
the cove in a dinghy that Clapp keeps tied in the shallows. 
Clapp rows, and I sit hunched in the bow, narrowing my 
eyes at the sailboat ahead of us and feeling my throat 
tighten with every stroke. A hundred or so feet away, the 
Vertue sits elegantly on the water. Its hull, made from 
solid teak, is a simple white with a green stripe at the 
water line, and its wooden bow curves slightly upwards. 
The mainmast, against the frame of the fishworks, looks 
like the needle-thin spire of a country church.

I told Clapp about my fear of sailing on the day we 
first met, almost a month ago. A the time, he only nod­
ded, and neither of us have brought it up since. Alone 
together in the dinghy, with only the faint sound of a 
motor puttering in the distance, I find myself wondering 
if he remembers.

As I climb onto the Vertue for the first time, Clapp 
offers me his hand, and I take it, knowing I could easily 
step on without him. He grips my hand tightly even after 
I am standing on the deck. 

When he lets go, I feel the motion of the boat 
worming into my stomach. The sail is still bundled away 
in a sail cover, but the bare mast looms uneasily above 
us.  

At first there is too little wind to sail, so we use 
the Vertue’s motor, a slow noisy thing that Clapp says he 
would “rather do without.” While we sit together in the 
cockpit, holding watery mugs of coffee, Clapp tells me 
stories of Branford Bay. Thoughts of my grandmother 


crackle like static over Clapp’s voice and the scenery 
around us. It’s impossible to listen to more than a few 
words before he, and the boat and the bay, are blurred 
out. 

Then the wind picks up, and Clapp switches off 
the motor. The silence is uneasy, cut by the occasional 
smack of a shallow wave against the hull. “Are you all 
right steering while I put up the sails?” he asks.

I nod, wordlessly, and take the tiller. The sail snaps 
in the first gust of wind, and suddenly I can feel the boat 
picking up speed beneath me, as though we are being 
lifted, shedding weight. 

“See, now the luff is tight,” Clapp says, tying the 
rope to a cleat. “Now we can start sailing.”   

Clapp returns to the cock­
pit, but he doesn’t take back the 
tiller. Instead, he sits next to me 
and explains the positions of the 
sails, the meaning of tacking and 
heeling and gybing. Sailing re­
quires focus, he tells me. Watch 
the waves, to see if they change; 
watch the white sails above you, 
to see if they Clappow and shift; 
watch the swinging jib, the heel­
ing hull. Feel the wind, smell the 
salt. 

Then the seam of clouds 
splits apart and thick, angular rays 
of sunlight fall on Branford Bay. The trees burst into 
flame, maroon and orange, and the steely water is swept 
with a rim of cerulean. The breeze flares and the sail 
cracks and fills and I can feel the tiller straining against 
my hand, and us, the boat and Clapp and I, caught up 
in the wind. The hull slices through the water, accompa­
nied by the deep groan of the mast in its step.

“There you go,” Clapp says. “Now you’ve got it.” 

He is perched on the edge of the cockpit, just beneath 
the boom, worn baseball cap blown back to reveal 
traces of stubbly gray hair. “The breeze is picking up, 
see? We’re going to tack.” He points ahead to where the 
waves are beginning to stir, to where the blue is tipped 
with glittering gold, and he takes the smooth wood of 
the tiller. We steady. 

I feel, in that gilded, breathless moment, a swell of 
grief. I look not at the boat but at the hand next to mine, 
calloused and rutted, guiding the tiller.

I’m thinking about a day last week when Clapp was 
trying to explain to me the beauty of wooden boats. At 
first, he tried to describe the experience of sailing Tern. 
Then he trailed off and began again with a story about 
his five-year-old grandson—they go sailing together in 
the summer, often for hours at a time. Clapp told me 
they had been meaning to go on a cruise yesterday, but 
his grandson was grounded; it was so late in October 
that the cruise would have to wait until next year. Next 
year, when Clapp will really teach him how to sail.

It’s only now, holding the tiller, listening to Bill 
Clapp explain how to catch the wind, that I understand 
what his grandson has to do with the beauty of a wood­
en boat. 


am 20. 

I call Grandpa after Clapp drops me off  in New Haven 
that afternoon. I tell him, not entirely untruthfully, that I liked 
sailing. I tell him about Clapp’s thick sturdy boat, gliding slowly 
through the Bay, and about how I took 
the tiller and held the jib sheet. I use the 
words Clapp has taught me, straining to 
remember the vocabulary that comes to 
him with such fluency. It is the longest 
conversation we have had since Gram­
mie stopped chiming in from the phone 
in the upstairs bedroom. 

“Did you get to the lake at all this 
year?” I ask. “To sail?” 

“Not this year,” he says. “I’m 
not walking so good nowadays. I can’t 
stand on a deck that’s pitching back and 
forth.” 

He’ll be 88 next year, and it’s the 
third summer in a row that he hasn’t been able to sail. While 
we talk, Grandpa cycles nostalgically through his own line of  
wooden boats: the Kevelle, the Squidulum, the Capella, the 
never-sailed Molly Rose... After that he trails off. Neither of  us 
mentions the last boat, though we are both thinking of  her. 

But I am thinking, too, of  Bill Clapp and his grandson. The 
grief  I felt on the sailboat today was not for my grandmother, but 
for the man whose hand should have been next to mine on the tiller. 
Now I have to think that it never will be. 

“I thought about you a lot today,” I tell my grandfather. “I 
miss you.”

“I’ve been missing you too, granddaughter,” he says. Then his 
voice grows low, strangled. “Maybe next year we can sail together.” 

Even after years of  
neglect and disrepair, a 
wooden boat can be put 
back together again, and 
Clapp can do it.



**Title: PHOTO ESSAY**
**Author: Max Saltarelli '13**
**Page number(s): 34-36**

October 2012
Max Saltarelli '13, photographs the 
weird side of suburbia in and around 
his home town of Orange, CA.
Orange, 
California


**A Conversation with Cord Jefferson**
**Author: Andrew Nelson**
**Page number(s): 38-39**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
In early August, Cord Jefferson was hired as the West Coast Editor for online publication 
Gawker, after a job as a senior editor for GOOD magazine. In between editorial positions, Jefferson 
has built a rich repertoire of  articles freelanced for outlets including The Nation, National 
Geographic, NPR and The Root. He often writes on topics related to race and class. He sat down 
with The New Journal to discuss diversity in media today.


Aliyya Swaby: You’re the second black editor 
Gawker has ever had. Why is this significant?
CJ:  I think that there are things that you simply 
can’t do as a publication and viewpoints that are hard to 
come by without having a lot of diversity on staff. In an 
increasingly multiracial nation with an African-American 
in the White House; if you don’t have a significant 
number of people of color on staff, you’re approaching 
irrelevance.


Juliana Hanle: You wrote an article for BET 
News this summer about racial disparity in 
marijuana use  prosecution in the US. How and 
when do you decide to approach articles using a 
racial angle?
CJ: I have no interest in being the guy that’s 
cramming racial stuff down people’s throats. Having 
said that, I think there’s no way to get around the fact 
that race has influence over pretty much everything that 
happens in society -- from politics and criminal justice to 
music and fashion and real estate. 
I do often feel pulled to discuss the racial element 
because it fascinates me. Privilege is invisible. If you’re 
middle class or a wealthy white person in America, you 
don’t see how your race affects everything that you do. 
The thing that’s a blessing and a curse for brown, 
black, females, and other minorities, is that you’re able 
to see how often race influences your life. In most 
cases, “playing the race card” is just a person of color 
acknowledging that race is a real thing that exists, and 
that there’s a power dynamic that goes along with it. 


AS: In The Root last April you described being 
a “formerly angry black man” before going to anger 
management. Could you have written an article like 
that one in a publication that wasn’t specifically 
from an African-American perspective? 
CJ: Absolutely. Gawker has been open to me writing 
about racial stuff. They have never said no to pitches 
that deal with race. The smarter outlets and publications 
see that these are important issues. You can’t just publish 
something anymore that caters exclusively to straight 
white men. 


AS: What do you think mainstream media 
outlets should do to improve the diversity of  their 
newsrooms?
CJ: People should be very earnest and direct about 
fact that they want to hire people of color, women, and 
gay people. The fact that you’re looking for a diverse 
newsroom is not something about which to be ashamed.


Not having a diversity of opinion will start to 
make people look foolish, like it made Tina Brown and 
Newsweek look foolish for propagating nonsense about 
all Muslims being violent. 


JH: Can you point to one key lesson you took 
from your experience studying sociology in college?
CJ: Sociology helped me understand that the idea 
that certain groups of people are civilized and others 
are uncivilized is kind of meaningless. The barriers we 
put in place to restrict ourselves from one another are all 
manmade. I went to William and Mary—I would imagine 
Yale is kind of similar. Those kinds of environments are 
really tough places in which to get a real sense of what’s 
going on outside of campus. People struggle with things 
that many William and Mary or Yale students don’t 
struggle with. Sociology taught me that those people’s 
lives were not worth any less than the life I was leading. 
They were just as valuable, interesting, and important 
as mine. 


JH: At The New Journal, our writers, some of  
whom come from privileged backgrounds, find 
themselves writing about a city where a lot of  social 
issues deal with race and socioeconomic status. Do 
you have advice for a college student handling these 
issues?
CJ: I’m the same way. I’m a person of color but 
at the same time, my mom’s white. I also come from a 
middle class background–my dad’s a lawyer. The best 
advice I can give is not to be embarrassed not to know 
things, not to be embarrassed to feel uncomfortable in a 
place. Some of the greatest pieces I read, whether they’re 
creative fiction or creative nonfiction or journalism, are 
about people who find themselves in uncomfortable 
positions: places where they don’t know a lot, where 
they have to work really hard to understand why they’re 
feeling the way they are about what they’re encountering. 
The best piece of advice you can give anybody is, 
don’t go to a place with an agenda. 


AS: You have an active Tumblr you update 
regularly. How does the site interact with your 
journalistic writing? 
CJ: I can’t tell you how many times things I put on 
Tumblr and Twitter have become the kernel of some 
other bigger story that I was working on. Being able to 
put your ideas into a quick safe space like that and to see 
what people say about them is beautiful. 


AS: You recently came under fire for a Gawker 
article you wrote arguing that pedophilia should be 
considered a sexual orientation, and in subsequent 
blog posts, you apologized for some of  the article’s 
shortcomings. How should a writer deal with the 
possibility of  backlash when reporting on sensitive 
topics?
CJ: You have to have thick skin, especially when 
you’re going to write about topics that are really 
sensitive, like gender issues and race issues. You have to 
go in knowing people will be angry. The pedophile piece 
is a perfect example. I talked to my editors about it and 
we knew that it would make some people hate me right 
away. You have to be willing to admit that you may be 
wrong and be willing to discuss things. 

There were a lot of rational critiques of 
that piece, but there were also a lot of irrational ones. 
There’s a great Ricky Gervais quote, “Just because 
you’re offended doesn’t mean you’re in the right.” Right 
now we have to realize that the Internet is like the Wild 
West. You have to be willing to take heat, be yelled at. 
After that pedophile piece came out, this feminist writer 
and editor in New York who I really respect e-mailed 
me said, “Hey, if you want to talk about the responses 
people are having, then let’s talk.” We chatted for two 
hours. For me, that conversation was worth a million 
people yelling at me online.

TNJ
Juliana Hanle is a senior in Davenport 
College, and Aliyya Swaby is a senior in 
Pierson College. Both are Co-Editors-in-
Chief of The New Journal.



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
40
The New Journal
