Publication date: October 15, 1999
Volume: 32
Issue number: 2


**MASTHEAD**
- Publisher: David Slifoa
- Editor-in-Chief: Michael Giltz
- Managing Editors: Jan Bscher; Daniel Brook
- Designer: Nicholas Jitkoff
- Production Manager: Eric Rathfon
- Business Manager: Navin Manglani
- Photography Editor: Andrew Youn
- Associate Business Manager: Makiko Hiatsunari
- Associate Editors: Ronen Givony, John Swansburg
- Research Directors: Julia Kagan, Alan Schoenfelt
- Circulation and Subscriptions Manager: Anya Kamenetz
- Staff:  Vanew Agoni-Jones • Jason D'Cruz • Whitney Grace • Hrishikesh Hirway • Jada Yuan • Miriam Tani Dirm • Emily Bazelon • Constance Clement • Peter B. Cooper • Tom Gjelten • Brooks Kelley • Laink Rudow • Henry Schwab • Elizabeth Sledges • Paul Strubeigh • Thomas Strong
- Advisors: Richard Blow • Jay Carney • Richard Conniff • Ruth Conniff • Elisha Cooper • Lauren Rabin • Steven Weisman • Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Steve Ballou • Anson M. Beard, Jr. • Blair Bennett • Edward B. Bennett, Jr. • Edward B. Bennett III • Paul S. Bennett • Gerald Burde • Nathan Burdell • Jay Carney • Daphne O'Dell • Josh Cherniss • Jonathan M. Clark • Constance Clement • Elisha Cooper • Peter B. Cooper • Andy Coun • Jenny and Rex Cowen • Maria DeRusso • Albert J. Fox • Mrs. Howard Fox • David Freeman • Geoffrey Fried • Anwar Ghandan • Sherwin Goldman • David Greenberg • Tom Gjelten • Stephen Hellman • Jon Kamenzky • Brooks Kelley • Hop Kirkwood • Andrew J. Kutzner, Jr. • Lewis E. Lehrman • Jim Lehrer • E. Nobles Lee • Hank Margulies • Martha E. Neil • Peter Neill • Howard H. Newman • Sean O'Brien • Julia Pfeffer • Lewis and Joan Pugh • Josh Pugh • Julio Precon • Lauren Rabin • Fairfax C. Rancell • Rollin Riggs • Mark Rindfuss • Nicholas X. Rigospoulos • Scott Rohm • Arleen and Arthur Soper • Ox and Debbie Scott • Richard Shields • W. Hampton Sides • Luis Silveira • Elizabeth and William Sloan • Susan Solomon • Elizabeth Tate • Alex and Guy Tordella • Madona Truschke • Allen and Sandra Wucld


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
FEATURES
8 Cop Killer - Jessica Bulman
12 Out of his League - Seth Brown
16 Analyze This - Ronen Givony
20 Newton's Principles - John Swansburg
25 Shots in the Dark: Common Folk - Shruti Adhar
28 Breaking the News - Anya Kamenetz & Jada Yuan
STANDARDS
4 Point of Departure
34 Essay: Crystal Clear - Carty Knecht
36 The Critical Angle: WWJD? - Alan Schoenfelt reviewing *For Common Things*, Jedediah Purdy
38 Eadaote: Learn-o-toons - Matt Wittk



**Title: Rage Against the Machine**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 1**

Jim Newton wants to clean up City Hall but is his own house in order?


<br>

**Title: Gecko**
**Page number(s): 2**

**Title: High and Dry**
**Author: Dan Kurtz-Ph~lan & Judy Milkr**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
High and Dry 
In the early morning ofTuesday, August 31, 
Richard Guy, a physics major at the 
MassachusettS Institute ofTechnology, was 
found dead in a friend's dorm room. Guy 
had been inhaling nitrous oxide from a 
garbage bag when he passed out and feU 
face first into the bag. After continuously 
breathing in pure nitrous oxide for several 
minutes, he asphyxiated himself and died. 
The two friends with whom Guy spent 
that morning--one an MIT senior and the 
other a recent graduate--currently face 
charges of possession with intent to distrib-
ute marijuana, amphetamines, psilocybin 
mushrooms and nitrous oxide. These 
charges could land them in prison for the 
better part of their lives. 

In the wake of Guy's death, controver-
sy has ensued in Cambridge. 
In "oAMJT-Orugs at MIT," a pam-
phlet published and distributed on the MIT 
campus shortly after Guy's death, an 
anonymous author decried MIT's drug pol-
icy and called for a new awareness of stu-
dent drug use and the creation of an open 
dialogue on the subject. Citing a recent 
case in which a student was left uncon-
scious at the emergency room door by stu-
dents fearing repercussions from university 
authorities, the author writes, "Neither of 
these events should ever have occurred-
people need to know how to be safe if they 
choose to use recreational drugs, and peo-
ple need to not fear legal repercussions if 
they're saving the life of someone in dan-
ger." The author goes on to detail the 
chemistry, effects and dangers of the most 
commonly-used recreational drugs, rang-
ing from cocaine to cough syrup. 

The events at MIT reflect a drug policy 
debate that is raging on college campuses 
across the country. At Yale, however, that 
debate appears to be virtually nonexistent. 
The absence of dialogue on the issue is all 
the more troubling in light of the 
University's liberal and open approach to 
alcohol use and abuse. 

The contrast is most evident in the 
curriculum of the freshman orientation 
program given to every Yale student upon 
arrival in New Haven. During the first days 
of school, in the midst of nightly fraternity 
parties and widespread binge-drinking, 
every freshman sits down with other stu-
dents and spends several hours listening to 
their counselors, security officials, peer 
educators and various other arbiters of their 
innards. The most prominent aspect of this 
curriculum is alcohol. 

Yale avoids preaching about University 
policy and focuses on trying to promote 
safety and responsibility when students 
drink. Binge drinking, date-rape and alco-
hol poisoning are included with various 
other alcohol-related issues. Counselors 
and other officials continually emphasize 
that there is little reason to fear disciplinary 
action by the University if a student drinks 
responsibly. This virtual immunity even 
extends to students who are taken to 
University Health Services because of over-
consumption. 

This tacit approval of alcohol con-
sumption, and even occasional over-con-
sumption, comes as no surprise. Drinking 
is ingrained in the very fabric of Yale life, 
from social-drinking on the weekends to 
Tang, Mory's and other classic, uue-blue 
traditions. The University's realization that 
students will drink regardless of rules 
allows for a constructive dialogue which 
transforms the issue from a legal one to a 
medical one. Policy is designed according-
ly, aimed at promoting responsibility and 
ensuring the safety of students who drink. 

Yet even a well-informed freshman 
counselor had little to say on the topic of 
drugs. It was absent from the mandatory 
orientation programming, with the excep-
tion of a list of Connecticut drug laws in a 
xeroxed 
packet. 
The 
Und~rgraduate 
&grtlations say nothing about illegal drugs 
other than that "the unlawful possession, 
use, or distribution of illicit drugs on 
University property or as part of any 
University activity is prohibited." 

Obviously, these materials educate 
freshmen in neither the health-related nor 
disciplinary consequences of drug use at 
Yale. Questions such as how a student is 
treated if taken to UHS for a drug overdose 
were never even brought up, let alone 
answered-and ignorance of these issues 
can only lead to problems. 

Despite the unbalanced treatment of 
alcohol and other drugs in freshman orien-
tation, University officials take similarly 
liberal, medically-oriented stances. "Our 
concern is with the health of the students 
and it is the same with drugs as it is with 
alcohol," said Dean of Student Affairs 
Betty Trachtenberg. "If a student has a drug 
overdose and is taken to the hospital, the 
main concern is with the health of the stu-
dent-same thing with alcohol." While 
Trachtenberg recognized the legal impHca-
tions of drug use, she continually empha-
sized that the University's policy on drugs 
focused more on the student's well-being 
than on punishment. "It's a grave health 
issue, and it's a grave legal issue, but we are 
not running a police state." Unfortunately, 
the benefits of this approach to drug use 
lose their effectiveness when virtually no 
one knows the policy. In the eyes of stu-
dents, the omission of drugs from the ori-
entation program implies a forbidden sta-
tus, forcing the issue out of the realm of 
open dialogue. 

Little will come of the University's 
drug policy if it remains veiled in secrecy; 
omitted from orientation programming as 
if taboo. As events on coUege campuses 
across the nation have shown, draconian 
drug policies and srudent ignorance do 
very little in the way of prevention or safe-
ty. For Yale students, a liberal underlying 
policy is in place. Unfortunately, only 
University officials seems to know that. 


**Title: A Spiral in Time**
**Author: Sydney uavms**

A Spiral in Time 
Freshman year, Andy Simon (BK 'oo) wrote 
an EngHsh paper that became an analysis of 
the author's geometry of time. A budding 
math major, he realized that all of his class-
es, regardless of subject matter, were varia-
tions on one theme. He and roommate 
Teru Thomas (BK 'oo) likened the unpre-
dictable, yet steady patterns formed by 
their education at Yale to the spiraling of a 
solenoid-the geometric shape of a slinky. 
"We had no idea what shape our revolu-
tions would take, just that we had to keep 
the wheels turning," Sinton explained. 

Their sophomore year, as items were 
moved from Berkeley to Swing Space in 
preparation for the college's renovation, 
Sinton and Thomas found an old Berkeley 
printing press block with tablet type placed 
to read Spira~ Lucis 
~ritatis, Sodalitas 
So/enadiorum Colkgii &rltkiani, or "The 
Spiral of Light and Truth, The Berkeley 
Solenoid Society." Finding no official 
documentation of 
its 
existence 
in 
Berkeley College 
records, let alone 
any indication as to 
what 
the 
Solenoid 
Society was, they sur-
mised only that members 
must have sought truth out-
side the Yale curriculum's offer* 
ings. 

The new Berkeley Solenoid 
Society continues the tradition of provid-
ing a forum for students and faculty to dis-
cuss interestS they pursue outside of class. 
In an armosphere very much like that of a 
master's tea, and indeed sometimes unin-
tentionally catered by Yale dining ser-
vices-like when members swiped brie 
from the Berkeley rededication ceremo-
ny--guest speakers discuss whatever inter-
ests them, ranging from international poli-
tics to the physiology of scuba diving. 

Other eventS include Yale's largest indepen-
dent student art show and the society's 
trademark: Thursday games of midnight 
croquet. 

"The game has no rules," said Ashley 
Adams (BK 'oo), the society's Director of 
Spacial Manipulations. "You're supposed to 
play it, but it's more about the conversa-
tions than about winning or losing." The 
unstructured aspect of the game became a 
problem last year in determining the out-
come of the society's one "away" game. In a 
less 
publicized 
and 
much 
darker 
Harvard-Yale game against the crimson 
•Mr. J's Midnight Croquet," each team 
claimed victory. Thomas won the game, 
but the Cantabs boasted greater all around 
strength. Sinton shrugged. "It was an ill-
defined game," he said. 

In its search for other opponents, the 
Berkeley Solenoid Society has come up 
shon. While the Elizabethan Club is reput-
ed to play a fierce game, their style of cro-
quet might not mesh well with the late 
hours and makeshift course of the Berkeley 
team. And the Solenoid Society is not pre-
pared to compromise. Between the hour!> 
of twelve and one on Thursday night-
Friday morning-participating 
members do more than 
complete a game of 
croquet. "Our course 
is more solenoidal," 
Sinton explained. 
"Every week we 
complete one cycle 
in the infinite sole-
noid of life." 

Last year, Sinton 
and Thomas did not miss 
a game, braving blustery 
New Haven winters, late-night 
downpours, and even some less-than-nat-
ural disasters. There was, as Sinton told me 
proudly, the occasional bitter cold night 
when the hearty mallet-wielding games-
men were accosted by sprinklers. They 
played every time, though Thomas did 
admit that such obstacles gave new mean-
ing to success in croquet. "Basically, it 
meant we didn't stumble or pass out," he 
said. 

The core members of the Solenoid 
Society-Adams; Thomas, the Society's 
Moral Conscience; Sinton, the Director of 
Revolution; Chris Hillar, the Director of 
Mathematical Proof; and Andrew Faehnle, 
the Director of General Mischief-are 
Berkeley seniors, and thus far no one has 
stepped up to fill their shoes. But the 
Berkeley Solenoid Society, according to 
Sinton and Thomas, transcends time. 
Decades from now someone might learn of 
its existence, and reestablish it just as they 
did two years ago. And the possible break 
in the weekly croquet schedule? Not a con-
cern. As Sinton pointed out, "The 
Solenoid Society doesn't need to manifest 
itself in croquet. It just does for us." 


**Title: Phone Home**
**Author: Alexander Dworkowitz**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

Phone Home 
With a new coat of baby blue paint on the 
living room walls, all looks well in a house 
on Crown Street occupied by five friends. 
It takes time to notice one peculiarity: the 
inordinate number of power sockets in the 
house--16 in the living room alone. In the 
basement, there is a phone board with 14 
phone lines, with names such as Ed, Poky 
and Clam scribbled on it as well as the 
cryptic phrase, "Nice job, Cush." 

"I personally think the house was 
something ... fascinating,'' says current resi-
dent Brian Mullin (oc 'm). 

Alexandra Cox (BK 'm), also a resi-
dent, heard something more definite. 
"People have come up to me and said, 'I 
heard your house was a brothel.'" Cox also 
noted that when she called SNET about 
their phone service, they told her that the 
house's account was tremendously long-
536 pages to be exact. Mullin speculated 
that the house may have been used for 
phone sex. 

This year's residents are not the first 
Yalies to live in the two-story white house. 
Students have lived there for the past four 
or five years, according to the house's land-
lord Frank Maselli. However, last year's res-
idents never heard any rumors about the 
possibility of the home being a brothel. 
Dargie Anderson (BR 'oo) thought the 
house had been an office, and Ellen 
Gilman (sR 'oo) heard it was a nursery. 

In December of 1991, Maselli bought 
the house along with the neighboring 
property, which now houses his auto care 
shop. At the time, Yale's School of 
Epidemiology and Public Health (EP&H) 
was renting the house. According to 
Maselli, EP&H soon outgrew the building 
and moved out about a year after he 
acquired it. 

Roberta MarineUa, who has worked in 
the epidemiology business office since 1988, 
confirmed that her department had used 
the house and moved out a few years later. 
"We rent off-campus space for some 
non-lab 
research, 
conducting phone 
research and surveys," says Marinella. The 
particular house on Crown Street was used 
to call pregnant women and ask them 
about their habits with regard to alcohol 
and caffeine., with the go~ of documenting 
the brutal effect of these habits on their 
babies. In other words, they made good use 
of 14 phone lines without ever once having 

So: case closed? 

"Yeah, it was a whorehouse," says 
"John," an employee of Yale University 
Dining Services. "Let's just say, if you had 
some ladies, and you needed a place, that 
house was somewhere you could go." 

Yale students did not move in until at 
least the fall of 1995, leaving four years 
unaccounted for. 

But if it was a brothel, it certainly was 
a quiet one. During the four-year period, 
the New Haven police were called to the 
house only once. In the middle of a March 
night in 1995, someone had tried to remove 
the front stairs of the house. According to 
the police report, the suspect tried to move 
the stairs so that he could remove -a vehicle 
that had been towed earlier that day by 
Maselli's business. 

Whether or not prostitutes frequented 
the house on Crown Street is unclear. But 
what is clear is that whatever did happen 
was certainly weird. 


**Title: Dances with Indians**
**Author: Jordan Gonzaks**
**Page number(s): 6**

Dances with Indians 
On September 14 at the Shubert Theater, 
Peter Buffet debuted Spirit, his ambitious 
musical that attempts to blend many types 
of Native American powwow dancing with 
contemporary Western dance, music, and 
themes. Spirit follows one man as his alien-
ation from an impersonal modern society 
compels him to take a journey into the 
spiritual world of Native Americans. The 
show spans from precolonial North 
America to the arrival of Christian mis-
sionaries, and culminates in the main char-
acter's understanding and reclaiming of his 
Indian heritage. 

Chief Hawk Pope and four Native 
singers complement the journey with the 
pounding drums and songs of powwow 
music. Each dance in the musical symbol-
izes key historical developments; the choir 
that accompanies one of the dances sym-
bolizes the influence of Christianity, while 
the sudden mixing of dancers or change of 
musical styles represents cultural blending 
and assimilation. As this man becomes 
more involved in the dances and finally 
accepts 
the invitation to JOln 
omnipresent drum, the musical score 
blends modern bongos and percussions, 
electric and bass guitars and electronic key-
boards. 

While Spirit emphasizes a journey to 
rediscover the Native American experience, 
the show uses both Indian and European 
dance and music. This blending provoked 
interest from several Native American stu-
dents at Yale. Sophomore Nelva Cervantes 
and I, both Native Americans, attended 
Spirit to see how well it captured the Native 
American experience. 

Cervantes, a Mescalero Apache, said, 
"I think it was billed as being tr-aditional 
Native dance and music and it was repre-
sented as that. But they made these over-
whelming generalizations encompassing all 
Native peoples, and it was silly. I hope peo-
ple don't think of Native American culture 
as being one thing, as something that's sta-
tic and stuck in the past." 

· Cervantes asks why this nineteenth 
century image of the stoic Native is not 
updated. She wonders why natives need to 
be transported into the past in order to be 
better understood in the present. "[The 
show] uses powwow dancing, which is con-
temporary," said Cervantes, "but Spirit 
portrays an Indian identity in this Plains 
Indian stereotype ·that all Indians rode 
horses and lived in teepees. Spirit has a lack 
of understanding of the diversity of tradi-
tional Native cultural beliefs." 

Ironically, Spirit opened at the Shubert 
only two days before Schemitzun, the East 
Coast's largest annual powwow and gather-
ing of diverse Native communities from 
Indian nations across America, Mexico and 
Canada. This event, located at the 
Mashantucket Pequot Reservation near 
Ledyard, Conn., attracted drummers, 
singers, dancers, artists and rodeo cowboys, 
as well as Native and non-Native Yale stu-
dents. 

For two long days of competition, 
hundreds of the world's best powwow 
dancers competed in categories for each 
style, age group and dance type. Nearly 
fifty drum groups representing their 
nations surrounded the grass dance arena 
and provided rhythm and song for the dif-
ferent dances. Each day's grand entry, 
which customarily acknowledges the tribes 
represented, featured several hundred 
dancers entering the arena to the beat of 
resonating drums. 

The image of Apache dancers captivat-
ing a crowd with their talent and fluidity 
stood in stark contrast to Spirit's flashing 
spodights, loud electric guitars and over-
simplified narration which condensed 
Native American philosophy into simplis-
tic sentences. The crowd at Schemitzun of 
several thousand during the two days 
ranged widely in age and ethnicity, but 
shared an outward appreciation for Native 
culture by respectfully acknowledging 
moments of prayer and traditions. 

Last April, Yale hosted its own authen-
tic celebration of Native American culture, 
a po~ow, organized by the Association of 
Native Americans at Yale (ANAAY). There 
are approximately 30 Native American stu-
dents involved in ANAAY. Corning from 
upbringings ranging from reservations to 
urban environments, these students have 
histories and personalities that are as 
diverse as those of students in any other 
ethnic organization on campus. 

powwow, 
which 
attracted 
dancers, singers and vendors from the 
entire Northeast, accomplished one of the 
current goals of the Association-reflecting 
the diversity and complexity of today's 
Native American culture. The powwow 
made students and community members 
aware of authentic Native culture and, of 
ANAAYS growing presence on campus. 

The Yale powwow and Schemitzun 
both recognized that the Native American 
experience cannot be condensed into a 
musical narrative of history. The Yale pow-
wow brought authentic songs and dance 
competition to the school community and 
Schernitzun represented scores of nations 
as unique groups and cultures in their own 
right. On the other hand, it lacked an in-
depth perspective by broadly sampling 
Native elements of dance and music. These 
two authentic powwows show how the 
Native American experience is more com-
plicated than its representation in Spirit. 
Perhaps 
Spirit 
misrepresents 
Native 
Americans because it assumes that there is 
only 
one 
true 
sputt. 


**Title: Snoop Dogs**
**Author: [Author not specified]**

Snoop Dogs 
Watching 1V and moviQ, it is difficult to 
pinpoint the ethos of the police dog. Could 
a dog as wrinkly as Hooch really help solve 
a caper? Can the acute nose of the Basset



**Canine Crimefighters**
**Author: julie Saitman**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Hound help in a high-speed car chase, and 
if not, why did Flash ride shotgun with 
Roscoe P. Coltrain? Would Scooby have 
worked such long hours if it were not for 
Scooby Snacks? The Canine Training 
Center, located at the State Police 
Compound in Meriden, is where dogs 
learn to take a bite out of crime and where 
the layman can learn all there is to know 
about canine crimefighting. The walls of 
the compound are lined with plaques, tro-
phies and pictures of graduating classes of 
officers and their quadrapedal partners. 
Interspersed with portraits of officers from 
all over the country, are pictures of units 
from across the globe: Greek German 
Shepherds, Egyptian Labrador Retreivers, 
and Chilean Sabuesos de Sangre. 

Training is held twice a year, in the fall 
and in the spring. The 540-hour course is 
attended daily by dog and handler. About 
108 teams attend each training session. 
Currently, 63 State Police and 37 Local 
Police teams are being trained. Hades has 
its Cerberus, and when training is over the 
Department of Corrections will have 20 
new (one headed) employees. Yet, due to its 
intense nature, 50 percent of the dogs will 
not make it through the course, nor will 30 
percent of the humans, making a Yale edu-
cation look like a cake walk---94 percent of 
Yale students graduate within five years. 

Currently in their fourth week of 
training, the dogs are practicing obedience 
skills and beginning to learn specific 
~ponses to situational stimuli. For exam-
ple, in an exercise for patrol dogs, the dog 
is taught to chase a threatening person and 
pursue them into a building, by recreating 
the situation and giving the dog feedback 
for his behavior. This exercise is specific to 
patrol dogs, the most visible type of police 
dog. Patrol dogs, which were originally 
Bloodhounds but are now primarily 
German Shepherds (the breed featured in 
the Jim Belushi great, K9), are trained in 
areas such as "obedience, obstacle work, 
tracking, building search, handler protec-
tion and evidence recovery,'' boasts the 
Canine Unit's informational materials. 

The Center also trains specialty dogs 
for seem work. Dogs are trained to sniff 
OUt narcotics and explosives, and can be 
USed in search and rescue operations, along 
1rith disaster work. In fact, the Connecticut 
Stare Police Canine Unit recently respond-
ed to a call about a lost four-year-old girl 
and promptly found her at the bottom of a 
OcroaER. 15, 1999 
nearby pond and rescued her. Labrador and 
Golden Retrievers, initially bred to retrieve 
dead ducks, are most commonly employed 
for this type of rescue. 

The dogs are all pure-bred and are of 
varying ages and sizes, though they are pre-
dominantly male, since males have proved 
to be more suited to this type of work-
sadly there's not a Lady for every Tramp. 
The dogs are obtained in a variety of ways. 
Local breeders donate some of the dogs, as 
do overwhelmed families (Benji was cer-
tainly a handful now and again, as was 
Beethoven). Some dogs enter the center at 
age eight weeks, some at age four years, but 
the age range in the training session is 
about two to four years old. Dogs can work 
until they are about ten years old before 
they are compelled to retire. The brochures 
didn't mention a pension plan. 

The bond between the handler and his 
dog is a unique one. Here fiction and non-
fiction overlap: few would deny the power-
ful link between Lassie and Timmy, 
Columbo and Dog. The handler is taught 
to address the dog in either very high, pos-
itive tones of encouragement or low, nega-
tive tones of reproach. Hand motions are 
also used to give orders. Dogs see everyone 
but their masters as civilians, and are high-
ly defensive of their handler. Any action 
seen as aggression toward the handler is 
responded to immediately with growling 
and what the trainers call "bite hold." This 
is a defense mechanism in which the dog 
sinks his teeth into the aggressor and holds 
him there until he is told to release. 

With this kind of close contact, one 
would expect dogs to be injured often, yet 
the opposite is true. Dogs are rarely killed 
in action and seldom harmed. Moreover, 
the dog provides a preemptive defense for 
the handler. Handlers are less often con-
fronted or endangered while on patrol than 
other officers. Dog and handler work 
together in a union as sacred as that of the 
tragically short-lived relationship between 
the Fox and the Hound. 

But this relationship is not for any 
dog-or for any human. To be qualified 
even to enter the rigorous training pro-
gram, an officer must serve with the state 
troopers for 2 years and pass the same testS 
of health, mental well-being and physical 
strength that dogs must-but they have to 
do it on only two legs. 


**A Double Murder, a Framed Man, and a Corrupt Cop?**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

An FBI report su~~ests two men were framed by a local drug boss-
and a police detective. 

n October 11, 1990, a bullet to the head killed 
Ricardo Turner. His lover, Lamont Fields, was 
killed by two shots in the back. Within 15 min-
utes the police discovered the bodies. Within seven 
months, Scott Lewis and Stephan Morant were con-
victed of the double murder and began serving rime 
for a crime they say they did not commit. 

Certain facts of the case are uncontested. The 
shootings, which occurred sometime after 4 AM in 
Turner and Fields' 634 Howard Avenue apartment, 
were a result of New Haven's thriving drug scene and-
its economy of competition and debt. A former 
city alderman, Turner had started dealing 
cocaine when he lost his seat in the rnid-
1980s. 

According to friends, he believed 
someone in his Hill neighborhood drug circle 
was stalking him and feared for his life in the 
months leading up to the murder. 

On October n, his fears were realized. A 
neighbor recalls hearing muffied voices arguing. 
followed by what she inirialJy took to be some-
one hammering nails, and then the footsteps of 
at least two people running from the building. 
Authorities maintain 
that 
these footsteps 
belonged to Lewis and his accomplice Morant, 
but Lewis continues to proclaim his innocence from 
a cell at the Cheshire Correctional Institution, where he 
is serving a 12.0 year sentence. Unsurprisingly, the state and Lewi~ 
tell very different stories about Lewis' activities on the day of the 
murder. 

The state's account is based primarily on the testimony of dten· 
teenage drug dealer Ovil Ruiz: around midnight Lewis, Morant and 
Ruiz were loitering on Clay Sueet in Fa.ir Haven when Frank Parise 
approached them. 

An Italian drug boss, Parise ran a thriving 
cocaine operation our of Branford and hired young blacks and 
Latinos--among them Ruiz, Lewis and Morant-to deal for him 
on the street. Parise spoke to the men about Turner and left, at 
which time Morant yelled, "Get the guns. We're going to the Hill." 

Before driving to New Haven's blighted Hill neighborhood, the uio 
smoked marijuana and drank in an after-hours bar. Around 4 AM, 
they arrived at Turner's apartment and Lewis and Morant entered 
with revolvers, while Ruiz remained in the car. Gunshots sounded, 
and Lewis and Morant ran from the building with a Puma gym bag 
and a bank deposit bag. As Ruiz drove the men back to Clay Street, 
he heard them comment that they had done "what they had to do." 

Lewis does not deny that he dealt cocaine for Parise. But he 
tells a different story about his activities on October u: Lewis says 
8 
he l an all-night =h job ft>< the pho~e company" 
"' Minuteman Press, and witnesses suppc\rt his account. 
j 
s, an athletic black man, 2.4 years old at the time, loved Jhf 
work at the printing press, even though it Raid only $Wah 
e had learned the trade at Eli Whitney Techri1C3f5di00t'in 
New Haven and had worked for several presses before Minuteman 
hired him in the late 198os. 

In 1989 Lewis found a job that paid 
much better, earning up to $4000 a week, or sometimes even in a 
single day: dealing cocaine. 

But Lewis continued printing--he 
enjoyed the work and believed it kept him "legit." 

Jeffrey Rochler, the owner of Minuteman, has called Lewis "a 
dependable employee who did a better than average job as a print-
er." And, Rochler says, Lewis was at the press when the double 
murder occurred. According to Rochler, the only rime Lewis left 
Minuteman Press on October n was at 1 AM when he went home to 
eat. Upon his return at 2., Lewis stayed at work until 7 that morn-
ing. Other co-workers confirm this account. 

But the jury didn't believe Lewis when be took the stand and 
relayed this timetable of events. They believed the state. Lewis was, 
after all, a drug-dealer with prior convictions for robbery and nar-
cotics possession. Why would the jury members believe his account 
THE NEW JouRNAL 

over police statements, believe his testimony over that of a state wit-
ness? 

The jury might, however, have asked why Lewis's co-workers at 
the Minuteman Press were never interviewed by police. Rochler 
asked to make an official statement, but police never acknowledged 
his request. 

RochJer did receive an unofficial visit from Police 
Detective Vincent Raucci who said not to mention their meeting. 

Or the jury might have wondered why the state never tested 
blood found in the hallway in Turner's building. Though police ini-
tially said the blood belonged to the killer, they later dismissed it as 
the victims' and ran no tests. The State also f.Uied to produce any 
fingerprints or other tangible evidence implicating Lewis. 

The jurors might have asked themselves why they judged the 
prosecution's principal witness-<irug dealer and convicted criminal 
Ovil Ruiz-more credible than Lewis. 

Ruiz had a history of 
lying-he lied to get a f.U<e 1.0. and used various aliases, even with 
the police. While in jail Ruiz was heavily medicated on antipsy-
chotic drugs, including Thorazine and Haldol. He told authorities 
that he saw a devil in his cell and heard voices, a complaint he later 
said he fabricated to be kept in sqlitary confinement. It is unclear 
..,hether Ruiz was mentally ill or merely a masterful liar. Either way, 
he was hardly an ideal witness. 

Finally, the jury might have wondered why the initial prime 
awpect in the murders was let go so easily. In November 1990, a 
trusted street informant told Police Sgt. Francisco Ortiz that 
Michael Cardwell was responsible for the double murder. Cardwell 
did indeed sell drugs with Turner and apparently owed Turner 
$48,ooo. But the police conducted only a perfunctory investigation 
of Cardwell. When he skipped town, authorities did not pursue 
him. 

Taken together, these faets cast significant doubt on Lewis and 
Morant's guilt. Why, then, were they convicted in a quick two-
week trial? Lewis has a theory, one supported by an FBI report 
released by the Connecticut State Attorney this September. Lewis 
and Morant were framed: framed by Parise, to punish Lewis, one of 
his dealers, for debt; and framed by Parise's partner-former New 
Haven Police Detective Vincent Raucci. 

Born and raised in Fair Haven, then 34-year-old Raucci had 
police work in his blood. Upon graduating from high school, he 
followed the careers of his father, grandfather, uncle and great 
uncles and joined the North Haven Police Department. In 1981, 
New Haven police welcomed Raucci to their force. Raucci was an 
lgressive, street-smart cop who prided himself on using intellect 
and instinCts, not just intimidation. Well-liked in the community 
and praised by the police chief, Raucci was named Officer of the 
Year by New Haven's Cirywide Block Watch Association in 1986. 

But in 1996, Raucci lefr the force, facing charges oflarceny and 
0crosER 15, 1999 
domestic abuse. While on the police force, Raucci received federal 
a. 
money to work as a security guard at a Newhall ville housing pro jeer i. 
for the elderly. During these hours he was actually meeting his girl-
~ 
friend at the Hamden Howard Johnson's. The state found out the 
Cl> !l 
true nature of Raucci's "overtime work" and pressed charges. 

en 
Ql 
Raucci was also arrested for abusing his ex-wife. Further police ; 
':T 
investigation revealed that he had been doing cocaine and fre-
!r 
quenting drug houses. On April n , 1996, Raucci chose to retire and co 
iii 
receive a disability pension of $2.8,ooo a year rather than fight the 5. 
charges against him. But the charges haven't disappeared. 

This past July, FBI agents arrested Raucci on the outstanding 
Connecticut warrants for larceny and domestic abuse. The first 
time the FBI came to his New Mexico mobile home, Raucci hid. 
The second time, he surrendered afrer a four-hour standoff, and the 
FBI dragged Raucci back to New Haven, ostensibly to clear up the 
outstanding charges. But they had another motive: along with local 
cops, FBI agents planned to question him about the 1990 double 

Lewis had sparked FBI involvement in the case in 1996, while 
incarcerated at the Cheshire Correctional Institution. 
Federal 
agents spent a year investigating and conducting interviews, travel-
ing as far as Arizona to speak to witnesses, resulting in a provocative 
report about the murders. 

But the report gives no easy answers. Michael Fitzpatrick, 
Morant's attorney, says, "It's obvious the title 'report' is a misnomer. 
It is really a series of interviews stapled together with a cover page." 

To construct a coherent account of the murders, the reader must 
extract necessary information, piece together discrepant statements, 
and keep track of a cast of characters with names like "Bullet" and 
"Mac Tonight." 

Despite its ultimate inconclusiveness, the FBI 
report contains powerful evidence, evidence that could possibly free 
Lewis and Morant and land Raucci in jail for life. 

Take, for example, the claims of several wimesses that Raucci 
coerced them into giving false statements. New Haven cocaine 
dealer Hector Ortiz says Raucci forced him to give a statement 
against Scott Lewis in return for protection from another criminal 
charge. Ortiz gave the statement in Raucci's police car, with Raucci 
turning off the tape recorder to coach him. Raucci also pointed out 
the pieture Ortiz should seleet on the photoboard of suspects-
Scott Lewis'. On the stand at Lewis' trial, Ortiz refused to repeat 
the statement Raucci had taken, declaring that Raucci had coerced 
him. But the jury didn't believe Ortiz. He was, afrer all, a youpg 
drug dealer wanted on other charges. 

Ortiz was not the only wimess pressured to give false testimo-
ny. Another man tells a similar story-Raucci, he says, forced him 
to give a fabricated statement implicating Lewis, which he deliv-
ered, with coaching. in Raucci's police car. And a young woman 



**Title:  The Raucci Case**
**Author: Jessica Bulman**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
whose statement lent credibility to Ruiz.'s 
account also says Raucci coerced her. In 
her statement this woman claimed to have 
spoken to Ruiz while. Lewis and Morant 
were in Turner's house. 
But, she now 
maintains, she did not see Ruiz that night. 
She never would have walked 
Howard Avenue at 4 AM. A teenager at , 
time, the young woman signed the false 
statement because Raucci intimidated her. 
The FBI report teems with other infor-
mation casting doubt on Lewis' guilt. 
Friends ofTurner say Lewis and Turner did 
not know each other, and five witnesses 
vouch for Lewis' alibi. These employees of 
Minuteman Press confirm that Lewis was 
with them on October n for the phone 
company's rush job and voice their surprise 
that police never officially interviewed 
them. They do, however, recall that Raucci 
unofficially interviewed Rochler. 
One 
employee recalls Raucci ceiling Rochler 
that he would keep the visit a secret "if he 
knew what was good for him." 


A motive for the framing emerges 
from other interviews. Parise, now serving 
a zo-year sentence for dealing cocaine, 
states that Lewis owed him $18,ooo in drug 
debts, and Lewis says that in January 1991 
Parise told him, "Vinny wants his money." 
Lewis had heard that Raucci was a "dirty" 
cop, but he didn't know Raucci's first name 
and thus did not equate Raucci with 
"Vinny." At his arrest in April 1991, Lewis 
says Raucci taunted, "You should have 
never stopped selling drugs in Fair Haven." 


The most compelling statement, how-
ever, is that of the state's star witness, Ovil 
Ruiz. When FBI agents interviewed Ruiz in 
February 1996, he initially repeated the 
story he had told at Lewis and Morant's 
trial. However, after some prodding, Ruiz 
admitted that he "had not been completely 
truthful in his testimony." He tearfully dis-
closed a great fear of Parise, and an even 
greater fear of Raucci. When FBI agents 
said they weren't aftaid of Raucci, "Ruiz 
began crying more forcefully then, losing 
his composure." Finally, Ruiz. said he had 
been "living for five years with a terrible 
secret which he could no longer contain:" 
Lewis and Morant were innocent. 


Ruiz maintained that the details of his 
testimony were crue, save for one key sub-
stitution-he had changed the names of 
the murderers. Frank Parise had set up the 
double murder. Lewis and Morant had 
nothing to do with it. 

According to Ruiz, Parise and his drug 
circle punished debtors differendy from 
other drug lords. Rather than killing these 
street dealers, they had them set up and 
sent to jail. But Parise needed a cop to 
facilitate the setups. Raucci fit the role per-
fectly. 


When pressured to make a false 
statement, Ruiz remembered all too well 
Raucci's pointing a gun at him ax'td saying. 
"I can kill you and get away with it." 


Local authorities disagreed. Following 
a brief interview with Raucci, Police Chief 
Mel Wearing denounced the FBI's investi-
" ~cion and stated his confidence in Raucci's 
.; "" innocence. The U.S. Attorney's office in 
Connecticut argued that the new evidence 
wasn't strong enough to implicate Raucci. 
yJ Ruiz lied once, they asked, why should 
his recantation be trusted? 
Indeed, this 
question seems justified by the final page of 
the FBI report, which contains an interview 
with Ruiz a year later, in February 1997· In 
this statement Ruiz recants yet again. He 
declares that Lewis pressured him to lie to 
the FBI, and he did so out of fear. Ruiz 
maintains that his initial testimony-that 
which he gave at the trial of Lewis and 
Morant-was the cruth. 


Raucci relied not only on intimidation 
but also on his self-proclaimed instinct and 
wiles to plot the setup, says Ruiz. Worried 
about Ruiis credibility, Raucci ordered 
him to shoot a competing drug dealer. 
Raucci would then arrest him, and Ruiz 
would cut a deal with police-to reduce his 
own sentence, Ruiz would provide infor-
mation implicating Lewis and Morant in 
the double murder. 


Ruiz's recanting of his entire testimony 
forces reconsideration of Lewis' and 
Morant's convictions. With the prosecu-
tion's only real witness declaring his 
account false, the defense has a clear case 
for a new trial. This, at least, is what fed-
eral agents concluded this past summer 
when they and local authorities sifted 
through the tangle of interviews attempt-
ing to reach conclusions. Federal agents 
requested that a grand jury reconsider the 
case, claiming that there was enough evi-
dence to implicate Raucci and set Lewis 
and Morant free. 


remembered 
a11 too we11 
Raucci's pointing 
a gun at him and 
saying, •1 can 
ki11 you and get 
away with it. • 


Local authorities conceded that Ruiz.'s 
fmal, and also first, testimony might not be 
completely true, but they maintained that 
its essence was trustworthy, and they voiced 
· support for Raucci. Local authorities were 
also no doubt influential in allowing 
Raucci's return to New Mexico. His bond 
was lowered from $450,000 to $5o,ooo, 
and outstanding criminal charges were dis-
posed. Raucci flew back to New Mexico a 
free man. 


But while Raucci may be safely out of 
state, his name is going to be tossed aro\lnd 
in Connecticut courts a lot this year. The 
double murder is not the only case that 
involves Raucci as a major player or that 
casts doubt on Raucci's character already 
tainted by a criminal record of larceny and 
domestic abuse. 


Just last month, for example, Raucci 
was mention ed in an oral argument per-
taining to a 1997 rape case. 
It appears 
Raucci, the lead detective on the case, slept 
with the alleged victim. In fact, both the 
prosecution and defense agree that he did. 
The only question is when. 


The state claims that the sex occurred 
two weeks after the rape and therefore is 
irrelevant to the case. 
The woman's 
upstairs neighbor, however, maintains that 
Raucci stayed with the woman the night of 
the rape. 
This neighbor says she saw 
Raucci's car parked outside the house all 
night, and in the morning the alleged rape 
victim apologized to her for any "noise she 
may have made while she had engaged in 
'wild sex' with Det. Vinny Raucci." 


It is highly unlikely that a rape victim 
would have "wild sex" the night she was 
raped, says Public Defender Lauren 
Weisfeld, who argues that her client was 
wrongly convicted of rape and deserves a 
new trial. The woman's sex with Raucci 
had not been admitted as evid~ce at the 
trial; federal law prohibits a w~man's sex 
life being discussed in a rape trial for fear 
that she will be branded promiscuous and a 
jury will be prejudiced against her. 


Weisfeld, however, argued that the 
woman's sex with Raucci has direct bearing 
on the case and should be admissible. If 
nothing else, Raucci's relationship with the 
woman biased his investigation, and possi-
bly led to the wrongful conviction of 
Weisfeld's client. 


This brings the tally of men who 
attribute their convictions to Raucci's ques-
tionable actions to three, all of whom are 
currently motioning for new trials. As a 
state appellate panel considers Weisfeld's 
request for a new trial, attorney Michael 
Jefferson is petitioning for a new trial for 
Lewis, and Fitzpatrick is doing the same for 
Morant. 


All three attorneys and their 
clients will have to wait months for court 
verdicts, which will determine only 
whether new trials are granted, not the 
guilt and innocence of participants. Says 
Fitzpatrick, "I'm on the edge ot my seat, 
and I'm in the middle of all this. You'd 
need a crystal ball to see how this will turn 
out." 


Lewis' and Morant's motions for new 
trials are cettain to involve much court-
room drama. State forces will pit them-
selves against federal documents, as author-
ities with a vested interest in maintaining 
Raucci's credibility challenge the FBI 
report. The state has good reason to shield 
Raucci, who closed many cases as a detec-
tive. There are many people sitting behind 
bars due to his testimony. If Raucci is offi-
cially pronounced a parmer in a drug sydi-
cate, the state will look bad, and the police 
department will lose respect and trust. 


There may be other Lewises and Morants 
who will push for new trials. Who knows 
how many people Raucci may have framed, 
how many people are serving time for 
Wrongful convictions. 


**Title: George W. Bush at Yale: Intellectual Snobbery?**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 12**

George W. Bush was expected to go to Yale, but did it live up to his expectations? 

D 
uring an interview this summer in Austin, Texas, the 
Washington Post dropped an open-ended statement in the 
lap of George W. Bush (oc '68). "It's been expressed by 
others," said the reporter, "that you were turned off by the intellec-
tual snobbery at Yale." 


This topic is eagerly discussed by the current Governor of 
Texas, who never misses a chance to point out that he is not-and 
never has been-an intellectual snob. Or an intellectual, for that 
matter. "I've been turned off by intellectual snobbery most of my 
life," said Bush. "Because once you go to those schools and can 
compete academically, you realize that these people who think just 
because they went to one of those schools and can lord their intel-
ligence over others, really are quite shallow." 


When asked if he would call himself an intellectual, the 53-
year-old former oil industry executive and part owner of the Texas 
Rangers offers this response: "If I did, everybody who knows me 
would roar with laughter. I think you know I've been around intel-
lectuals before." 


Bush does not want to be branded an East Coast, Ivy League-
educated elitist intellectual. And in fact, he is not an intellectual-
at least with all the baggage that term 
implies. Bush's mediocre grades and 
lack of academic focus at Yale hint at 
an absence of interest in the world of 
ideas, and the Governor's recent 
statements have shown this to be 
true. The September issue of Talk 
magazine included an interview with 
Bush in which a reporter asked him 
if he could name something that he 
is not good at. Without hesitating, 
Bush replied, "Sitting down and 
reading a soo-page book on public 
policy or philosophy or something." 


A copy of Bush's transcript 
(with grades blotted out) that was 
obtained by the Washington Post 
from the Texas Air National Guard 
contains a list of his classes, which 
are unremarkable by any measure. As 
a history major, he took a wide range 
of history classes, but other than a 
few brief forays into anthropology, philosophy and Japanese (a 
course of literature in translation), his transcript demands no par-
ticular attention. Although Bush has asked Yale not to release his 
grades, we can surmise that they were weak. Maureen Dowd, a 
columnist for Th~ N~ York Tim~s. recently noted that while visit-
ing an elementary school in Bedford, New Hampshire, Bush told a 
group of students, "Some people say that I proved that if you get a 
C average, you can end up being successful in life." 


It is abundantly dear that Bush was not, is not, and will never 
be considered an intellectual. 


But the charge of elitism--especially social elitism-is nearly 
impossible for Bush to kill off. Regardless of what Bush says, his 
money, his elite education, and his family and political connections 
have greatly defined his life. In reading George W. Bush's story, you 
realize that influence and connections were frequently employed on 
Bush's behalf. The Bush name itself-and lircle else--eventually 
allowed him to become a moderate success in the oil business. To a 
lesser degree, a similar story can be told about Harvard alum Al 
Gore. Even small town-born Bill Bradley-who graduated from 
Princeton-was the local banker's son. In a year when the three 
main contenders for the presidency are 
Ivy League graduates who were born 
with silver spoons of varying sizes in 
their mouths, it makes sense for Bush to 
pull a Bill Clinton and play, as much as 
possible, the average, hometown Joe. 


And calling Yale a tower of snobbery is a 
good first step in that direction. The 
only problem for Bush is that the Yale of 
1968 was not a paragon of elitism or a 
bastion of intellectual snobbery. In fact, 
snobbery of any type-intellectual or 
social-was noticeably absent within the 
college. 


Steven Bourke (oc '68), who lived 
near Bush in Davenpon for two years, 
remarks that, "I didn't meet an intellec-
tual snob during the entire time I was at 
Yale. I came across m~y types of peo-
ple, but I never met anyone like that." 


After a shon pause, he continues, "In 
fact, snobbery--<>f any kind-was not 
.... George W. Bush on his father's shoulders. 



**Title: George W. Bush at Yale**
**Author: Seth Brown**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
George W. Bush entered Yale in the fall of 1964, at a time when American involvement in Vietnam was limited, the drug revolution had not yet begun and life--for upper-class white families, that is-was still stable and relatively simple. Terry Johnson (oc '68), a roommate and close friend of Bush's from Yale, volunteers that Robert Dieter, another of Bush's roommates, calls that period the "happy days ... You know, like the TV show. Everything was simple then, before the whole situation broke apart."


Although Yale was relatively untouched by the changes that were beginning to ripple across the country when Bush arrived in New Haven during the fall of 1964, the college and the country itself were soon engulfed by the political tumult of the 196os. Jim Sleeper discussed the period in a phone interview, pointing out that "although the freshmen were dominated by the preppy ethos, the very ground was shifting under our feet. The whole culture of Yale and the country was changing."


The rapidly escalating war in Vietnam played a major role in this change. But although major anti-war protests had begun to take place across the country by 1967, and William Sloane Coffin-Yale's chaplain and a leader of the national anti-war movement-was arrested for aiding draft resisters during 1968, Bush has stated that "I just don't remember much protest ... But maybe I just missed it. I wasn't looking for it." For whatever reason, Bush did not focus on the issues of the day. He remained part of the Yale he entered-the Yale of 1964-and was little influenced by the transformative medium that Yale quickly became.


It was through his social life that this scion of the wealthy, influential and politically-connected Bush family truly excelled at Yale. Many recall that Bush was affable and gregarious, able to move easily between and within varied social groups, and excellent at connecting with people on a one-to-one basis. By the time he arrived in New Haven, Bush already possessed the kind of people skills needed to succeed in politics. As Johnson explains, "George cut across a whole bunch of dividing lines-between jocks, and folks who were artistic. He moved among different groups in a way not many did. In a class of 1,000, an average person might know 200 people, and 20 well. George doubled that." Bush's friend Frederick Livingston agrees, explaining that, "George was definitely one of the 20 or 25 best known leadership-type people in our class." He continues, pointing out that Bush was "exceptionally good on a one-to-one basis with people. The extent to which he was a leader was because of his personality, his ability to make others feel comfortable."


George W Bush has retained most of the friends he made at Yale. And he made a lot. Nearly everyone who knew Bush at Yale-even those who knew him in the most tenuous way-has something good to say about him. John Duff and John H. Hill, for example, the two freshmen counselors who lived in Lawrance Hall with Bush, were eager to expound upon Bush's social graces and personal charisma, even though neither has had much contact with him since leaving Yale 35 years ago. Both, however, had very recently become reacquainted with the Governor. Last month, Hill bumped into Bush while stepping out of a bathroom at a Pittsburgh GOP fundraising luncheon. "Bush remembered me immediately. It was really amazing," he said. Bush's freshmen counselors must regard the Governor highly, because they both supported his campaign. According to the fundraising records that Bush has posted on his web site, Hill gave $900 to the Bush campaign, and Duff contributed $1000, the legal limit for an individual.


Although Bush has distanced himself from the University, never attending a class reunion and refusing to update the class history, he has nevertheless remained close to the friends he made at Yale. Terry Johnson said that Bush "has been greatly involved with his friends, and tremendously loyal to his friends. That is very important to George." It is surprising that a man who made so many close friends in New Haven now stands apart from the University. When asked about his relationship with Yale by the Washington Post, Bush responded that "I love my friends at Yale. But I was irritated at Yale because it took an act of Congress literally to get them to give my Dad an honorary degree. You bet. I just can't believe the university would not be bending over backwards to ... give this man an honor and treat him with the utmost respect." Though Bush may have been frustrated with Yale's treatment of his father, his distancing act began more than a decade earlier, after he lost his first Congressional race-in a rural district in West Texas--after being branded an over-educated "liberal northeast Republican" by his GOP opponent.


George W. Bush's list of activities at Yale reads blandly, and, characteristically, does not include anything the young Bush would have described as "intellectual." His record includes no writing or debating. All of his extracurricular activities can be grouped into two categories: athletics and exclusive social clubs. He rushed Delta Kappa Epsilon (DKE) sophomore year and during his junior year was selected as its president.


DKE, for a number of reasons, merits special attention. Greek life on campus had been declining since before Bush arrived in 1964. As the percentage of public school students at Yale College edged above 50 percent, the number of students who could afford the $160 annual fees for fraternity membership began a steep decline. At the same time, the ongoing transformation of the social fabric of the country, the rise of the civil rights movement, and the Vietnam War drew increasing numbers of students away from the isolated world of the fraternities and into politics, debate and writing. As Steven Bourke explained, "the fraternities' influence on campus began to decline very early. The actual number of frats did decline, but more important was the fact that from 1961 to 1969, the frats just kind of deflated."


During Bush's senior year, the fraternity rush season at Yale hit the pages of The New York Times twice. In October, the Times reported that Phi Gamma Alpha, one of Yale's six fraternities, would close because of debt and an inability to draw enough new members. Another fraternity president was quoted as stating that Phi Gamma Alpha suffered from "an exaggerated problem which plagues all fraternities here." He explained, "Fewer people than ever before can afford them, and fewer people want what they have to offer-which is perhaps frivolous diversion for bits of entertainment no longer very much in demand on the campus."


In late October 1967, the Yale Daily News published an article charging DKE and one other fraternity with employing "sadistic and obscene" initiation rituals. Apparently, DKE had applied a hot branding iron to the small of the back of its 40 new members that fall, leaving a scab in the shape of the Greek letter Delta. By then a former president of the organization, Bush defended DKE's actions in the pages of The New York Times, explaining that the wound was "only [like] a cigarette burn." In the end, the Yale Interfraternity Council fined DKE for its participation in initiation rituals that "violated the spirit of fraternity restrictions." The fact that Bush was willing to take a stand about fraternity branding rituals at a time when many of his classmates were beginning to address more vital issues such as the Vietnam War and draft resistance is telling about Bush's priorities at the time.


In Skull & Bones, Bush found a safe haven for his senior year. The vow of secrecy the members of the secret society took allowed Bush to speak freely about his conservative views at a time when the campus was becoming increasingly liberal. While his fellow Bonesmen included a student from Jamaica, an Orthodox Jew and a Jordanian, Bush was, by many accounts, a recipient of a legacy slot. Bush's father, George H. W Bush, and his grandfather, Prescott S. Bush-a Connecticut senator-both were members of Skull & Bones.


Along with his father and grandfather, George W Bush also had four uncles who attended Yale.


A picture begins to emerge. A third-generation Bonesman with a multitude of relatives who attended Yale, Bush was as much a part of the Old Yale social elite as one could be. His status as a social monarch and president of DKE can only add to this image. And yet, even though it is clear that Bush comes from this enormously privileged background, his public statements about Yale can only be seen as attempts to dissemble and disassociate himself from an intellectual elitism that Yale did not harbor. Perhaps Bush recognizes that Americans are often more comfortable accepting social and class-based privilege than even a hint of intellectual elitism. Ironically, the school from which he now distances himself was more a bastion of privilege than of the intellect.


Seth Brown is a senior in Branford College.


**Title: Analyze This**
**Author: Ronen Givony**
**Page number(s): 17-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Analyze This
by Ronen Givony


Three days later, Kelly Silk, 32 and a mother of four living in 
East Hartford, stabbed her husband and eight-year-old daughter in 
the early hours of the morning. After killing her hus-
band with a kitchen knife, Silk set fire to the house's sec-
ond story with lawn-mower gasoline taken from the 
garage. Two children-a son and a daughter, aged two 
and three years old, respectively--died in their beds 
from smoke inhalation. The eight-year-old, Jessica, ran 
out of the house and to a neighbor's home with her hair 
on fire and her body dripping blood. Mrs. Silk was 
found the next' day among the home's smoldering 
remains, dead of third-degree burns and smoke inhala-
tion. 
Jessica and Joshua-the Silks' six-month-old new-
born-were hospitalized for burns and said to be in crit-
ical condition, but doctors expected both to live. As for 
their mother, police officials later said that Mrs. Silk had 
been hospitalized the previous year after an overdose of 
Prozac. Neighbors and members of the nearby Truth 
Baptist Church apparently did not know much of the 
family's day-to-day life. What the Hartford Police 
Department did know, however, was that Silk had had a 
history of mental problems, that she may have suffered 
from postpartum depression after giving birth to her 
fourth child, and that she was currently without any 
form of mental health care. 


Mental health, it seems, is very much on the collective brains 
of both policy makers and ordinary citizens these days. After 
Littleton, and a wave of shootings by gunmen young and old in 
Atlanta, Jonesboro, and Conyers, elected officials are finally starting 
to talk about preventative measures. And the solution that people 
are suggesting-increased governmental funding for the treatment 
of mental illness-has, over the course of the past four decades, 
slowly become more or less acceptable to the country that contin-
ued to detain its mentally ill in prisons only a hundred years ago. 

D uring a recent White House press conference, a teary-eyed 
Bill Clinton announced to the world that mental illness was 
no longer the social stigma it had been seen as for centuries. 
Standing beside the First Lady, looking both concerned and deter-
mined for the sea of reporters before him, Clinton convened the 
first-ever White House conference on mental health with a surpris-
ing call to action. "It is high time that our health plans treat all 
Americans equally," the President declared. "Government can and 
must lead the way to meet this challenge." Looking similarly tender, 
Mrs. Clinton seconded her husband's call, and urged insurance 
companies nationwide to offer mental health coverage equal to the 
provisions made for all other types of illness. "We must do whatev-
er it takes," she avowed boldly-and with those firm if somewhat 
vague words, the day-long conference, chaired by Tipper Gore, 
began happily. During the course of the day's deliberations, Gore 
herself was to admit that she had been treated for depression some 
ten years ago. 

With the advent of antipsychotic medications, state-managed 
mental hospitals, and cornmuniry groups all calling for improved 
care in the last forty years, it would seem that the quality of life of 
the estimated two to three million people diagnosed with serious 
mental illnesses would have improved drastically from the days of 
Dorothea Dix and the imagery of Oru Fkw Ovn- th~ Cue/too's N~st. 
Yet as mental health advocates and critics will admit, services for 
mentally ill persons without the abiliry to pay for hundred-dollar 
sessions every week are disastrous by any measure. Despite the $20 
billion in public funds spent every year on mental health services, 
more than half a million people remain untreated every year-in 
prisons, in boarding homes, on the street, in the average suburb and 
in substandard housing projectS. A Congressional report issued in 
1998 found that at least 2.4 people died and nearly 1,000 were 
injured or abused after being restrained at state-run mental health 
facilities. Paradoxically-even with the sometimes abominable 
treatment patients receive--the mentally ill have to fight tooth and 
nail even for admittance to these facilities, there being room for 
only some 70,000 people nationwide to receive inpatient care. 
Complicating matters further is the whopping 40 percent of the 
nation's prison population who have a history of mental illness, up 
drastically from 24 percent in 1991. 

Statewide, Connecticut has, at least on paper, historically fared 
and performed well in its treatment of the mentally ill. A 1990 
report published by the National Alliance for the Mentally Ill 
(NAMI) rated Connecticut fourth in the nation for its care of the 
seriously ill, and praised the "exceptional leadership" of the state's 
Department of Mental Health. Yale's Child Study Center and vari-
ous psychiatric institutes regularly receive multimillion-dollar 
grants for their breakthrough research. But the state has also fallen 
prey to criticism in recent years, especially for the budget cuts of 
Governor John Rowland's administration. In June, Connecticut 
State corrections officers called for another look at the treatment of 
mentally iU prisoners after one inmate was killed while being over-
tranquilized by guards. Two prison suicides in ten days prompted 
the resignation of a top-level mental health supervisor and a policy 
review by the University of Connecticut Health Center. In 1999 
alone, three mentally ill prison inmates have committed suicide; at 
least that many have tried to kill themselves. Unsurprisingly, the 
condition of mental health care in Connecticut, and specifically 
that of New Haven, serves nicely as a microcosm of the nationwide 
picture. 

New Haven, as its residents and officials have known for quite 
some time now, is a city with an essentially schizophrenic personal-
ity, having a clearly defined boundary between the afBuent Yale 
campus and the depressed periphery. Perhaps, then, it should come 
as no surprise that the Elm City has been so frequently used as a 
case study by mental health experts. A curious observer visiting 
New Haven to inspect mental health facilities would learn, for 
instance, that the city known more for its supposed invention of the 
American pizza also has the nation's highest population of mental 
health professionals per capita in the country. A simple glance at the 
stretch of offices on Trumbull and Orange Streets, or at the count-
less facilities at Yale devoted to psychological and psychiatric 
research, will serve as further evidence of the many services provid-
ed to those who can pay for their treatment, or who can serve as 
participants in studies. For the insured, the New Haven YeUow 
Pages lists some 70 private psychiatric offices that charge anywhere 
from $75 to $350 an hour for private therapy. For those affiHated 
with Yale or Yale-sponsored studies, there is the Yale Psychiatric 
Institute, the Yale Child Study Center, Yale-New Haven Hospital, 
Mental Hygiene, the Department of Psychology, the Yale Center for 
Eating and Weight Disorders, the Yale Psychological Services Clinic 
and the Bush Center in Child Development and Social Policy. For 
those with a taste for Freud, Jung and Adler, there is the Western 
New England Psychoanalytic lnstirute. Academics can peruse the 
Yale-published &vi~ of Gmn-al Psycho/Qgy, the jounull of Soci4/ 
Aycho/Qgy, or ImAgination, Cognition, Pn-sonality. But for the poor, 
the uninsured, and the seemingly countless homeless and addicted 
persons without the ability to pay-the detritus of the mental 
health industry-there is only one resource: the Connecticut 
Mental Health Center (CMHC). 

CMHC was founded in New Haven in 1966, shortly afrer the 
formative years of the city's mental health industry, when Yale's early 
leadership during the 194o's and 50's paved the way for better psy-
chiatric services both city- and nationwide. One of 18 Local Mental 
Health Authorities across the state, CMHC is a State of Connecticut 
facility-officially under the auspices of the Department of Mental 
Health and Addiction Services-staffed jointly between the gradu-
ate and professional branches of the Yale Department of Psychiatry 
and the state commission. From its run-down brick building on 
Park Street, adjacent to the significantly more attractive Yale-New 
Haven Hospital, CMHC handles those patients without the privilege 
and means co pay for their own mental healthcare: the city's abun-
dant population of schizophrenics, manic depressives, alcohoHcs, 
drug addicts and victims of innumerable other mental illnesses. It is 
a facility reminiscent of Dickens or Dreiser. On the days I visited, a 
steady procession of exhaust-belching trucks on North Frontage 
Road and the looming gray sky above seemed to complement per-
fectly the CMHC population, smoking cigarettes with downcast, ner-
vous eyes outside and waiting for the frazzled receptionist to call 
their names. 

On any given day, about a hundred patients walk in and out of 
CMHC's guarded doors, mainly to work in group sessions of 12 to 20 
people-but sometimes as large as 3o--on issues as varied as vio-
lence management, substance abuse and psychosocial issues. 
Currently, CMHC serves some 5,ooo patients in this capacity, and 
runs on an operating budget of some S30 million, with $22 million 
coming directly from the State of Connecticut. Of the 6oo employ-
ees who currently staff the CMHC, half are faculty and students from 
Yale, the other half state employees. Of the latter group, the major-
ity are social workers, nurses and various other mental health work-
ers. 

To obtain treatment at CMHC, a patient can either seek referral 
from a physician-if they have access to a physician, that is-or 
walk right into the facility. After giving their vital information to 
Admissions, a patient sits for an interview with a triage clinician. 
The clinician-a licensed psychologist, psychiatrist or social 
worker-is then free to foUow up the triage interview with one of 
three options: further assessment by a social worker to decide the 
need for and severity of treatment, admittance to the inpatient ward 
after consultation with a psychiatrist, or the least expensive and 
most-often used method of treatment, outpatient care. In fact, it is 
only on the fourth and fifth floors of the CMHC that patients can be 
admitted for one-on-one clinical and inpatient care. Of the 5,000 
patients CMHC has on its rolls, only 20 to 30 can be treated at a rime 
in the inpatient and "panial hospital" wards. The remaining 
patients must seek treatment in group counseling or in the various 
satellite facilities throughout the greater 
New Haven area. 

Tomas Reyes, associate administrator 
at CMHC, is a staunch advocate of the prac-
tice of outpatient care, calling it the best 
possible method of care with the resources 
currendy available to mental health profes-
sionals. Reyes-a New Haven Alderman 
and Vice-Chair of the Aldermanic Special 
Committee of the Homeless-has an office 
off a long hallway which can only be 
reached after walking through a metal 
detector and past the eyes of a tired-looking 
security guard. A sign, announcing 
"ABSOLUTBLY NO CAMERAS ALLOWED IN THE 
BUILDING," greets patients and visitors to 
CMHC. Cameras, the security guard 
explains to me, do not sit well with the 
patients at the facility, who often have a 
hard enough time dealing with the other 
patients in group therapy sessions and pri-
vate clinical meetings. 

Reyes arrives 25 minutes late to our 
appointment, sipping coffee from a styro-
foam cup and dressed in an expensive suit, 
offering his apologies. Reyes has served as 
the head of public and community rela-
tions at CMHC for several years, all while 
serving, in the words of the N~ Hawn 
Advocates Paul Bass as "the city's leading 
Latino politician." He is clearly a politi-
cian, and it shows. Next to his desk, on 
which sits a miniature model of a Porsche 
Carrera, is a tackboard with yellowed clip-
pings of pictures and articles about himself 
from the N~ Havm &gistn', alongside a 
letter from President Clinton. As we sit 
down to discuss the workings of the facili-
ty whose promotion is the letter and law of 
his job, he speaks grandly and gesticulates 
wildly, all the while towling his graying 
hair. 

"We have the best of both worlds," 
"g. Reyes announces proudly, "a state facility 
with a clear relationship and even a stand-
ing contract with Yale, and the New Haven 
community." Community is a favorite 
word of Reyes'; in our hour-long interview, 
he uses the word as both noun and adjec-
tive, peppering his statements with fre.. 
quent reference to his mission of making 
sure the community at large benefits from 
the goings-on at CMHC. The word figures 
prominendy in each of Reyes' descriptions 
of the initial three missions CMHC set out 
for itself at its founding: service to the 
client, education and, of course, research. It 
is not only the significant time and money 
spent on patients' treatment, Reyes stresses, 
that make the community and state fund-
ing for CMHC so valuable, but also the cen-
ter's role as a major research facility. 

"On any given Friday," Reyes contin-
ues, "you can find people from all over the 
New Haven community at our lectures and 
information sessions. Students from the 
School of Public Health, the School of 
Nursing, the Yale Medical School, Yale fac-
ulty, community members, everyone." 
Reyes casually mentions the fact that the 
third floor of the CMHC facility-the floor 
reserved for research-has room for 10 to 
12 patients at a time, sligbdy higher than 
the space made for inpatient care one floor 
above. 

But it is exacdy this habit of wing its 
patients for psychiatric research that has 
gotten the CMHC into trouble in recent 
years--a problem that NAMI discussed nine 
years ago in its 1990 report. Until the lead-
ership of former director Ezra Griffith, a 
Yale professor of psychiatry, critics in state 
government complained that patients were 
being wed as guinea pigs to further the 
research fevers of well-funded Yale depart-
ments. But as Reyes makes sure to note, it 
was during Griffith's tenure as director of 
CMHC that a fourth mission-"communi-
tas" -was added, specifically with the aim 
of wing research findings to further the 
role of community agencies in the larger 
indwtry effort. Still, many continue to 
worry that the best interests of patients 
may not always be on the agenda of either 
the administrators or physicians alike at 
CMHC. 

"There's no question that the empha-
sis, at least on the Yale side, is on research," 
says Beth, a patient-rights advocate at the 
CMHC who asked not to have her name 
wed in this article. "Everyone, especially 
the doaors at CMHC, pats [himself] on the 
back for the effectiveness of [his] treat-
ment, and no one cares to wonder 
about how the patients themselves are 
being treated." 

Beth tells a different story, one that is 
significandy free of the communitarian 
rhetoric Reyes is so fond of. The statistics, 
Beth says, do not lie; they merely mislead. 
"Of course Connecticut is one of the best 
states in the country for mental health care. 
And of course CMHc is about the best in 
Connecticut. That doesn't say much for the 
rest of the country, though," she says. "It's 
simply a disgrace." 

The problem, according to Beth, has 
to do with several factors: most important-
ly, a general public that knows nothing, 
and doesn't want to know-this problem is 
only made worse by the nearly complete 
absence of noted advocates in the mental 
health camp. "Everything looks good on 
paper, but the paper doesn't account for the 
fact that mental health patients, especially 
at CMHC, are treated as second-class citi-
zens." 

Most troubling, Beth says, is the 
national mental health situation. That only 
70,000 people can receive inpatient mental 
health care, she continues, is a simultane-
owly bewildering and infuriating reality. 
"You can't get in some facilities these days 
unless you break the law. We're turning our 
own people into criminals. To me, it's a 
wonder there aren't more Columbines." 

Being poor, and at the mercy of the 
scant services provided by Medicare and 
Medicaid, patients are only weful to facili-
ties like CMHC insofar as their treatments 
will yield significant research findings. 
"Giving your body to science," it seems,



**The Politics of Mental Illness**
**Author: Ronm Givony**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
has undergone a neatly modern, Cartesian 
inversion: giving your brain to science, in 
return for temporary and mediocre treat-
ment. 

But providing a steady output of use-
ful research findings may, paradoxically, be 
the only viable lifeline for mental health 
facilities whose funding is always under fire 
by compassionate conservatives and critics 
of state-funded health care. New York 
Governor George Pataki drew some criti-
cism and more commendation in 1997 after 
announcing his plan to reduce funds for 
outpatient mental health care. 
His 
Republican 
colleague, 
Connecticut 
Governor John Rowland, scrapped two 
state-run mental health hospitals in 1997, 
leaving only one in operation, and cut 
funds by another five percent in 1999. 
Meanwhile, the Northwest Center for 
Family Service and Mental Health in 
Litchfield, Connecticut, facing lowered 
funding and job layoffs, invited Meryl 
Streep and Sam Waterston to perform a 
brief skit for a fundraising benefit 
{Waterston played the director ·of a mental 
health center whose job pulls him in too 
many directions). In the face of a facility's 
tenuous suppon from lawmakers and pal-
try funding from skeptical or recalcitrant 
state governments, what can its staff do but 
use its many patients as a commodity? 

Still, the most optimistic of us have 
reason for hope. It appears that, however 
slowly, the decades-old cries of mental 
health advocates may finally be heard. 
Shortly after New Haven was chosen as one 
of 54 cities nationwide to share in the fed-
erally-funded 
Safe 
Schools/Healthy 
Students grants, the city announced plans 
to use pan of a three-year, $2.8 million 
grant to hire more mental health profes-
sionals, while a similar resolution was made 
in neighboring Waterbury. In the spirit of 
recent calJs for a national patients' bill of 
rights, Connecticut state legislators--much 
to the consternation ofHMo's--have begun 
debating proposals that would force insur-
ance companies to pay for mental health 
treatment. Perhaps in the future, the ugly 
and persistent reality of the mentally ill, 
ignored and wished away by the American 
OcrosER 15, 1999 
public for so long, will indeed be treated in 
the same manner as the "conventionally" 
ill. We can certainly neglect the problem no 
longer. As Jon Oldfield, an advocate for the 
mentally ill, states, "This issue of money is 
simply going to get someone hun." 

One thinks of Freud's lectures during 
his first visit to the United States in 1909, 
when he delivered five extemporaneous 
talks on the foundations of psychoanalysis 
at 
Clark 
University 
in 
Worcester, 
Massachusetts. In the course of his first lec-
ture, Freud expounded upon some of the 
difficulties facing any physician who seeks 
to treat illnesses of the mind: 

But all [the conventional doctor's] 
knowledge-his training in anatomy, in 
physiology and in pathology--leaves him 
in the lurch when he is confronted by the 
details of hysterical phenomena. He can-
not understand hysteria, and in the &.ce of 
it he is himself a layman ... So it comes 
about that hysterical patients forfeit his 
sympathy. He regards them as people who 
are transgressing the laws of his science-
like heretics in the eyes of the orthodox. 
He attributes every lcind of wickedness to 
them, accuses them of exaggeration, of 
deliberate deceit, of malingering. And he 
punishes them by withdrawing his interest 
from them. 

Despite being nearly a century old, 
Freud's words resonate in the claims of 
individuals and groups who continue to 
insist that mental illness is a private, even 
overdiscussed worry, and one that should 
remain safdy out of the hands of govern-
ment and its clinical employees. We can 
wonder how many more guns will have to 
go off in schools, or in daycare centers, or 
in daytrading offices, before something is 
done. Or, as seen in the case of Kelly Silk, 
we can choose to do nothing. We can defer 
the conversation indefinitely. We can con-
tinue using prisons as health facilities and 
health facilities as prisons. In other words, 
we can play the fiddle like Nero; we can 
debate the merits of government interven-
tion and freedom, all while the house slow-
ly burns. 

1111 
Ronm Givony, a junior in Branford Colkge, 
is an associ4te editor of TNJ. 


**DeStefano's Ramshackle Campaign and Newton's Unexpected Challenge**
**Author: John Swansburg, Jr.**
**Page number(s): 20-21**

0 
N OcroBER 5, I visited incumbent Mayor John DeStefano, 
Jr.'s headquarters in an office building at One Church 
Street. The lights in the sprawling room, which appeared 
to have once been a bank, were off. A lone elderly man was stuffing 
envelopes behind a counter. With the election less than a month 
away, I had expected more bustle. For a moment, I entertained the 
thought that I was not actually in the right place, that I had stum-
bled into a failed savings and loan that had decided to fill its bank-
rupt windows with "DeStefano for Mayor" signs. I asked the elder-
ly man if I was indeed at DeStefano headquarters. He directed my 
attention to an office I had overlooked when I walked in and the 
woman inside, saying, "she knows about those things." Apparently 
he did not. I approached the office and asked the more informed 
official if I could have some literature on the Mayor. "What I 
received were campaign materials that had been printed for the 
September 14 Democratic Primary. She assured me that new litera-
ture was on its way. As I left, I noticed that, interspersed with the 
red, white and blue, star-spangled DeStefano signs were smaller 
signs advertising in fluorescent writing that the space currently 
occupied by DeStefano's headquarters is "For Lease." 

DeStefano's operation is so ramshackle you would think he is 
running unopposed. But this is not the case. James Newton is an 
African American; he is 50 years old; he is a former Ward 5 alder-
man; he is former head of the New Haven Job Center; and he wants 
to be the next mayor of New Haven. On October 6, I walked into 
Newton's office at 365 "Whalley, an office you could fit into 
DeStefano Headquarters three times. A secretary busy at her desk 
20 
accompanied the only other person in the 
room: Jason Bartlett, Newton's campaign 
manager. Newton was attending a funeral 
down the street, and I waited in the office for 
about ten minutes for him to return. During 
those ten minutes, Bartlett fielded five phone 
calls. He ordered more campaign posters. He 
read into the phone an editorial written about 
the mayoral race in the New Havm Register 
and commented on it. He complained that the 
mayor's office had misquoted statistics about 
funding for city teachers in the editorial. 

On Bartlett's desk a mug holding pens 
had been taped over and "Jim for Mayor" writ-
ten on the rape. A steel rack by the desk 
overflowed with Newton's campaign materials. 
I picked one up. It read "Gana con jim [Win 
with Jim]," across the top, and on the bottom 
a label gave the date of the election, handwrit-
ten: "November 2, 1999." I pulled off the label to reveal the print-
ed words: "El 14 de Septiembre." On the wall behind Bartlett's desk 
hung one of a number of signs hand-written in black marker. One 
read: "October xst Day 32 What do you need to do? E-Day Nov. 
2nd." These small motivational signs were interspersed with 
Newton's campaign placards: "Jim Newton Mayor"-no graphics, 
no prepositions. 

In the September 14 Democratic mayoral primary, Mayor 
DeStefano defeated Jim Newton 6,182 to 3,776. Newton thus won 
nearly 40 percent of the vote, as well as Wards I and 2 (the wards 
with the highest percentage of Yale voters)--quite a feat for a can-
didate with almost no city-wide name recognition. When 
Republican Ann Piscattano challenged DeStefano in 1995 she could 
only rally 20 percent of New Haven's voters. The turnout for last 
month's primary was dismal: a scant 29 percent of the 34,500 eligi-
ble Democrats voted. Perhaps New Haven Democrats are apathet-
ic. Or perhaps they had forgotten that there are primaries in New 
Haven-Newton was the first Democrat to challenge DeStefano 
since the Mayor took office six years ago. Unfazed by the loss, 
Newton renounced his affiliation with the Democratic Party soon 
after the primary and vowed to run against DeStefano as an 
Independent. 

· 
Newton's success was probably due less to his own platform 
and more to his dismantling of DeStefano's. In the months leading 
up to the primary, Newton gained public approval through his fer-
vent attacks on the Long Wharf Mall proposal, which was ulti-
, 


--- Page 21 ---

mately approved by the Board of Aldermen in early August. In 
June, Newton called for a referendlim that would allow New Haven 
residents to vote on the mall. In a series of press conferences in July, 
Newton brought public attention to the issue of the mall, a project 
he would have killed. In particular, Newton has attacked the mall's 
co-developer: the Fusco Corporation. 

And with good reason. As Katherine Hawkins reported in a 
July 29 article in the N~ Havm Aavocate, Fusco's corporate histo-
ty is suspect at best. Fusco has never built a full-sized malL The cor-
poration has managed a mall of this size, purchasing the lease to 
Sunshine Mall in Clearwater, Florida, in 1972. Was the corporation 
When Newton returned to the office, we decided to have a 
working lunch and walked to a nearby diner. Newton greeted the 
people eating lunch as we made our way to a booth in the back-
he is an upstart, but he is nonetheless a politician. After he ordered 
a sandwich, we began our talk in earnest. DeStefano has dismissed 
Newton as a mudslinger. I wanted to know what Jim Newton's plat-
form looks like. 

Newton began by defending his vehement attacks on the 
Mayor: "I would be irresponsible if I did not bring these issues to 
the forefront," he said. He started talking about "corruption" and 
"fraud" at City Hall, but by the time the 
successful at mall management? That 
depends on who you ask. When the 
Sunshine Mall hit rocky financial times in 
1995, Fusco simply stopped paying its 
property taxes, rent and mortgage. The 
Fusco Corporation ultimately paid off 
only a fraction of the debt they incurred 
Newton told ~ne tha t he 
vvould consider it a vict ory 
even if all he defeats is the 
Mayor's aura of invincibility. 
waitress delivered his sandwich he had 
thought better of it. He quickly turned 
to what he calls "the positive." He ran 
down a list of the proposals he has 
made: about education, about econom-
ics, about the need for a permanent 
Inspector General-putting a comma 
between each idea with a rap of his hand 
on the formica table. 

That victory, I believe, is 
running the Sunshine Mall. 

Not only has Fusco mismanaged a 
very ~nuch vvithin his gras p . 
mall but they also have misappropriated 
state dollars, as a Newton press conference 
brought to light. Goodwin Square Ltd., a 
partnership controlled by a Fusco subsidiary, was given $94 million 
from a Connecticut workers' pension fund by the state treasurer's 
office in 1987. The money was given to Goodwin Square to reno-
vate a hotel and office building in the state capitol. In the June 20 
press conference, Newton told the public what Catherine Lamarr, 
general counsel for the treasurer's office, had told his campaign: 
Goodwin Square is in default for the entire debt (and thus owes the 
state over $100 million dollars) and the treasurer's office is ready to 
foreclose. The Fusco Corporation, Newton argued, has shown itSelf 
to be completely irresponsible. They are also, Newton reminded, 
major contributors to Mayor DeStefano's campaign. 

In addition to these legitimate salvos, Newton makes some 
more brazen claims about New Haven's political machine. An 
excerpt from Newton's campaign literature reads: 

RICCI!D VOTING MACHINES DOMINAT£ NI!W HAVEN POUTICS: for 
c:xampi~Last Mayof21 dcction many ciry voters when attempting to 
vote at cen:a.in times were told to return later, as the machines were all 
broke [sic] and had to be Mfixed• ..• Folks, we 112~ Cook Counry policies 
right here in New IUven! 

Newton's comparison to Chicago's infamous political machine 
seems inBated-his fears of DeStefano's machinations border on 
• 
Oc-roBER 15, 1999 
Newton especially stressed educa-
tion. He talked about the sad irony that 
New Haven has one of the greatest universities in the world and 
some of the worst public schools in the state. He talked about cre-
ating a bridge between Yale and New Haven's public schools. He 
talked about using Yale's experts to improve public school curricu-
la, especially in grades one through three. Newton is an increasing-
ly savvy politician. Throughout our talk he stressed his appreciation 
ofYale, both as an institution and as a constituency. 

A half-hour had passed and Newton, so excited to talk about 
his campaign, hadn't even touched his sandwich. 

Newton is not just an opponent; he is a champion of opposi-
tion. Newton put together an opposition ticket for the September 
primary. Included on that ticket was aldermanic candidate Edward 
Negroni. Until the week following his loss in the primary, Negroni 
distributed food provided by the Connecticut Food Bank to neigh-
bors. According to Negroni, he distributed food to approximately 
1,000 families each month from his backyard. Days after the pri-
mary, the city stopped Negroni's food distribution, citing health 
concerns. The timing was a bit suspect: the city had allowed 
Negroni to distribute food for months. The city never harassed 
Negroni before he challenged an incumbent Democrat. 

In another incident in the weeks since the primary, Newton 
was asked to leave Bowen Field by Charisse Townsend, who was 
es 
by John Swansburg, Jr. 



**Title: The Jim Newton Campaign**
**Author: John Swansburg, Jr.**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
.\ 
directing Safe Night, a 
crime prevention program 
held at the park. Townsend, 
who held a permit for the event, 
ejected Newton from the park 
with the aid of three New Haven 
Police 
officers, 
charging 
that 
Newton was campaigning at a family 
event. 

I asked Newton if he thought 
DeStefano was directly bdllnd the closing 
of Negroni's food bank. "Absolutely," 
Newton replied, "no question about it." 
Newton is convinced that he has been vic-
timized. I asked Newton if he thought 
DeStefano was directly behind the incident 
at Safe Night: "Absolutely. It is unfortunate 
that this administration is so vindictive. I 
think that's horrible." 

Newton has a tendency to see 
DeStefano behind all of his campaign's set-
backs. But he has also made some costly 
mistakes of his own. Newton chose Patricia 
Cofrancesco as his running mate; she is 
vying for the position of City Clerk. A for-
mer top lawyer in the DeStefano adminis-
tration, Cofrancesco ~as forced by the 
Mayor to resign on June 18, 1998. 

Cofrancesco lost her Job after tenuously 
ruling that a loan was ethical. The loan was 
given by the city of New Haven to Andrea 
Jackson-Brooks: Mayor DeStefano's top 
aide. Jackson-Brooks received a zero-inter-
est, half-forgiven loan to remove lead paint 
from her house. The loan-in the amount 
of S58,75o--was given through a federally 
funded program known as HOME. Jackson-
Brooks' salary, $72,100 a year, disqualified 
her from applying for a loan from HOMl!. 
Furthermore, Jackson-Brooks already had 
two other mortgages on the house, mort-
gages 
with 
an aggregate value of 
$102,00<>--$12,000 more than the estimat-
ed value of the house. 

Clearly this loan was an embarrass-
ment to DeStefano when it was brought to 
the public attention in an Ad110cate article 
in June 1998. In an effort to make amends 
for the scandal, DeStefano needed scape-
goats: Jackson-Brooks and Cofrancesco 
found themselves unemployed. Although 
she resigned from her position in accor-
dance 
DeStefano's 
wishes, 
Cofrancesco was not pleased about taking 
the fall for the mayor. On the contrary, 
later in July Cofrancesco took DeStefano to 
22 
New Haven 
Superior Court. 

In an attempt to get 
her job back, Cofrancesco 
claimed that she was forced to quit by the 
Mayor, who physically intimidated her into 
resigning. In the July trial Cofrancesco 
attempted to prove this physical intimida-
tion, which allegedly occurred during a 
five-minute meeting in the Mayor's office, 
in order to be reinstated in her former posi-
tion. As Ad110cau reporter Colleen Van 
Tassell 
quipped, 
"Evidently 
she 
[Cofrancesco] wants to return to an envi-
ronment where she feels unsafe around the 
mayor and scapegoated by co-workers." 

Cofrancesco thus brings to the 
Newton ticket all the anti-DeStefano ire 
one could hope to muster. But is Newton 
so intoxicated by Cofrancesco's sour grapes 
that be can forgive her role in DeStefano's 
corruption? What is even more confusing 
about 
Newton's 
affiliation 
Cofrancesco is that the Jackson-Brooks 
case was not the first time she offered the 
mayor the shaky legal advice he needed to 
bend the rules. She also did it in 1996-for 
the Fusco corporation. In 1994. Mayor 
DeStefano gave the Fusco family a private 
contract to maintain City Hall in a surrep-
titious manner later criticized by the Board 
of Aldermen. In 1996, DeStefano gave the 
Fuscos control over the cleaning of the city 
office building at 200 Orange Street. 

DeStefano only dared to increase Fusco's 
contract because of the legal safety net pro-
vided for hlm by his top legal advisor: 
Patricia Cofrancesco. 

When I asked him why he chose 
Cofrancesco, Newton paused and then 
began defending her. But just for a second, 
for the first time in our meeting, Newton 
did not have the answer on the tip of his 
tongue. Newton defended his running 
mate, calling her "incredibly honest" and 
"a legal expert." Once again, Newton 
quickly pinned the blame on DeStefano, 
asserting that Cofrancesco was "manipu-
lated for the Mayor's purposes," in an 
administration where "if the Mayor 
doesn't like you, he chops your head 
off." 

May brought a second mani-
festation of Newton's political 
inexperience. Newton and cam-
paign manager Jason Bartlett were 
at New Haven radio station WEU, 
dropping off a press release. Hearing 
that Newton was in the office, Roger 
Vann and Tom Scott, the hosts of WEu's 
"Off Center," asked Newton to join them 
on the air. According to Paul Bass, who 
later wrote a story about Newton's 
imprompru radio visit for the Advocau, 
Vann and Scott were dying for him to 
attack DeStefano. Accordingly, they gave 
Newton a loaded gun. The first (and last) 
question they asked regarded DeStefano's 
proposed pay raise, which would raise the 
Mayor's salary to S97,603-the raise would 
also be the Mayor's third pay hike in four 
years. Newton shot himself in the foot. He 
approved of the pay raise, saying that the 
Mayor works hard. The following day, 
according to Bass, Newton called "Off 
Center" to "clarify" his position. His posi-
tion, he stated after sleeping on it, is that 
the Mayor should not get a raise. 

Perhaps Newton's gaffe can easily be 
explained: he needs the money. Although 
he has managed to raise s4o,ooo and has 
donated $19,000 of his own money to his 
campaign, his war chest is a bread box 
compared to DeStefano's. Thus what is left 


**Title: COMMON FOLK**
**Author: Shruti Adhar**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
*COMMON* FOLK** 
Photos by Shruti Adhar 


**Title: Eli Whitney Folk Festival**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 26**

This fall, the Eli Whitney Folk Festival returned to Edgerton 
Park after a five-year hiatus. The festival had obviously been 
missed: local community members and student enthusiasts cov-
ered the park with their picnic blankets. Yale's own folk group 
Tangled Up In Blue opened for headliners Dar Williams and 
Odetta. Festival organizers emphasized the meaning of the word 
ufolk" and its connection to the gathering of people who had 
come to the park to join in the artistic movement of the same 
name. uFolk" has no singular form; these photographs of a man, 
a youth and a boy focus on individuals always fn the crowd. 



**Title: Breaking the News**
**Author: Anya Kamenetz & Jada Yuan**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
A cold wind blew down Orange Street on the morning of September 14, 1999. Despite the weather, both candidates for the Democratic primary of the Ward 7 Aldermanic election had arrived before 8 AM to set up camp and greet voters. Esther Armmand, the four-term incumbent, stood on the sidewalk in a bright red suit and full makeup, smiling, shaking hands and handing out fliers. Half a block away stood Asit Gosar (PC 'oo), her 21-year-old challenger, wearing a gray fleece over a black "Go for Gosar" shirt. Dark circles under his eyes attested to the last-minute campaign preparations that had kept his camp up until 3 AM. Gosar greeted each vanload of voters with handshakes and hugs. In his hand he held a printout of his database and was checking them off as they arrived, with a meticulousness typical of his eight-month campaign. By the end of the day, that list was going to get him into a lot of trouble. 

When the polls closed at 8 PM, Gosar, Armmand and their respective supporters filed into a room in the basement of the New Haven Hall of Records, where they waited, alongside members of the Yak Daily News (YDN) and the New Havm Register, for officials to count the ballots. The anxious candidates would have to wait over two hours before finding out that Gosar had squeaked out a 2.98-2.69 victory. Meanwhile the press had begun to stir.  "Ned Ji, [YDN reporter] comes up to me at the conclusion of the election and says, 'Can I have your list of voters?' Gosar said. "I had [the list] in my hand. I wasn't hiding them off; I just gave it to him. I guess that was my big mistake. It had everything--colleges, room numbers. I guess that's what they used." 

Sometime during Election Day, reporters for the YDN had noticed freshmen at the Ward 7 voting center. Suspecting an irregularity--freshmen typically live on Old Campus, which is located in Ward x--the reporters checked Gosar's records and voter registration cards supplied by Robert Smuts (SM 'ox), the registrar of voters for the Yale College Democrats. They found "at least 20" Yale students whose right to vote in Ward 7 could be questioned: Davenport and Pierson students whose beds were not located in the ward in which they voted. 

Excitement ran high at the YDN office, just five blocks away, as reporters rushed around, trying to verify the election statutes and getting reactions from freshmen registered to vote. Six YDN reporters contributed to the front-page story on September 15, which was picked up by the New Havm Register and then by The New York Times. Within a week, investigations had uncovered 34 questionable votes, more than Gosar's margin of victory. Amid a storm of controversy and facing a lawsuit funded by Armmand's supporters, Gosar withdrew from the race. 

On the surface, the YDN's work was exemplary student reporting. But a passage in that first article suggested a story behind the story. 

Sara Kang '03, a member of Pierson College, said Isaiah Wilner (PC) 'oo, a member of Gosar's staff, instructed her to erase "Lanman-Wright" and put "Yale-Pierson College" in its place. 
"He took me through it all," Kang said. 
Wilner said he registered Pierson students, and some were freshmen. He also said he registered all these students as Pierson residents. 
Wilner is the Editor-in-Chief of the Yale Daily News. 

This was the first time the YDN had mentioned the names Isaiah Wilner and Asit Gosar in the same article. The two had been roommates and close friends, however, since junior year. In the days before the election, the YDN printed seven front-page articles about Gosar without hinting at this potential conflict of interest. 

"What we both thought at the time [in January] was there is at least a perceived conflict of interest and at many times the perception is as important as the reality," Wilner explained. "So we set up a firewall. I wouldn't work for Asit. That meant he wouldn't give me any information and I wouldn't give any to him. We were roommates, that's it. We're still roommates." 

"Isaiah and I were not allowed to speak about it," Gosar said. "We set up that wall early on. The irony was, we were nailed for a perceived conflict of interest, not an actual conflict of interest ... we didn't quite understand the power of that perception--especially of us as power-seekers and power-holders--people love to distrust that." 

OCTOBER 15, 1999


**Title:  (Unnamed Article)**
**Page number(s): 30**

Gosar went on, "We decided that we shouldn't allow bullshit politics to affect our personal lives. Why shouldn't we room together just because we both do stuff? He's one of my closest friends." 

Both residents of Pierson 1492 had confidence in their ability to separate work and personal lives. They tried to deal with a problem of public perception by making a private decision not to share information or help each other. Each sat at his desk in their small common room, working for their respective organizations, by their avowals never discussing how things were going. 

How well did the "firewall" hold up? 
Not too well, it seems. Although not an official member of the staff, Wilner assisted the Go For Gosar campaign by registering freshmen to vote in Ward 7. At the very least, he gave these voters the impression he was a member of Gosar's staff, as Sara Kang believed and erroneously told the YDN. 

Even if the roommates never shared information, maybe this rule was not enough to protect the YDN's objectivity. 
"Isaiah didn't go out of his way to make his efforts clear," said a board member, referring to the firewall. "He should have called a board meeting and explained things from start to finish." Instead, his relationship to Gosar correlated quite well with the YDN's handling of the campaign. "I definitely thought the coverage was too much slanted in favor of Asit as the young, enthusiastic Yale student 'listening to other students' concerns'," said Rorie Tobin (BR 'ox), an Armmand supporter. "If anything, I think it was sort of stupid on the part of the YDN to not look out for that." YDN board members and reporters alike echoed these concerns. 

From the time of Gosar's announcement of candidacy in January until the election, the YDN quoted him 20 times, more than any other candidate. Most stories focused on his "grass-roots campaign," talking about his door-to-door canvassing and study breaks. On September 9, referring to Gosar's "aggressive get-out-the-vote campaign," Charles Forelle (PC '02) wrote, "Esther Armmand's got a problem in Pierson." 

In an attempt to balance the coverage, a profile of Armmand ran on the front page on September 10. It was placed, however, alongside a story about a landlord attempting to revive a lawsuit against her for back rent. Both stories ran under the headline "Faced With Lawsuit, Armmand Points to Record," creating the impression of a politician on the defensive from a serious attack on her ethics. 

Did Wilner cross the firewall in order to tip the stories in favor of Gosar? He maintains he gave City Editor Henry Whitaker (OC 'oo) full editorial control over all Gosar stories. (Whitaker repeatedly declined to comment.) But on September 17, the New Havm Register reported, "Some staffers are upset Wilner earlier edited stories about the election and did not divulge to readers his close relationship with Gosar." Several sources on the YDN staff told The New Journal that Wilner called the Armmand profile too positive before it ran. 

By Wilner's own admission, "A senior editor has a huge impact on the atmosphere of the Newsroom." Wilner said he removed himself from the paper after the election because "I didn't want to cause a chilling effect." But could his presence before the election have had that same effect? By simply wearing his Go For Gosar T-shirt around the YDN office, as he often did, Wilner may have swayed the coverage. 

The staff of the YDN commonly explained the attitude of the coverage before the primary as the "hometown favorite" effect. Stories focused on Gosar because he was a Yalie, quoting him more often than Armmand or others because he was more readily available for comment. But many staff members said not enough was done to correct the appearance of bias. 

"We screwed up," one staff member said. "The conflict of interest was not apparent." 

Whether the pre-election coverage reflected the normal bias of slipshod student reporting under the rush of daily deadlines, or something more sinister, Gosar basked in the YDN's favor. 

When the pendulum swung the other way, though, it hit Gosar hard. The new tone was set by the headline which appeared the morning after the election: "At Least 20 Students Vote Illegally in Ward 7." "Libel," Gosar called it. To justify the use of the term "illegal," the YDN relied not on the voter registration statutes, but on one quotation from Thomas Ferguson, the director of elections for the Connecticut Office of the Secretary of State: "Residence is determined by where you lay your head at night." 

In doing so, the initial story and the


**Title: The Gosar Election**
**Author: Anya Kammaz and Julia Yuan**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
four that followed oversimplified the legal 
issues involved. Four absentee ballots filed 
by alumni had been thrown out before the 
election. That left 30 contested votes. 
Within that number, the YDN lumped 
together a group of students that included 
not just freshmen, but fresh~en coun-
selors, off-campus students, and juniors 
studying abroad. Freshmen alone were 
mentioned specifically and quoted as vot-
ers, when in fact only 14 freshmen voted in 
the election. The laws covering former res-
idents of Ward 7 and future residents of 
Ward 7 are different; the former has to do 
with a change of address, the latter, with 
the definition of the term "bona fide resi-
dency." 

This definition is harder to apply than 
it may at first seem. The law defines "bona 
fide residence" as an individual's "fixed 
home or fixed place of abode, to which, 
when he is temporarily absent, he intends 
to return." 

"To determine the particular resi-
dence," the law continues, "objective fac-
tors must substantiate a subjective declara-
tion of intention." What are these "objec-
tive factors"? What is a "subjective declara-
tion of intention"? Even Mary Young. the 
staff attorney of the Secretary of State's 
office, admits, "The law does!l't say any-
thing. The statutes do not spell out what 
'bona fide resident' means." 

According to Gosar's reasoning, a Yale 
freshman's "bona fide residence" is the resi-
dential college. "You establish residence in 
your residential college," he said. "It's 
where you eat, where your mailing address 
is. They will live there when I'm the alder-
man." 

Gosar chose not to elaborate on this 
position in articles after the election. "The 
Daily wanted me to give my story," he said. 
•1 didn't want to speak to them because 
they were doing a terrible job of covering 
the election and they were trying to scan-
dalize everything. I was hoping people 
would see it as a form of social protest. 
Also, there was pending legal action. I 
couldn't talk, I didn't want to talk." Instead, 
he e-mailed YDN reporters and editors with 
people and evidence supporting his side, 
including the name and number of Sean 
Grace, a member of the 27th Democratic 
Ward Committee who ran for alderman in 
1995. Grace claims he called the YDN to 
warn them against taking Tom Ferguson's 
word as law and to point them toward 

**Title: WWJD? What Would Jedediah Do?**
**Author: Alan Schoenfeld**
**Page number(s): 34**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
WWJD? 
What Would J~dediah Do? 
by Alan Schoenfeld 
For 
Colll...., 
.... 0 1l 
For Common Thlnp 
)edediah Purdy (Knopf. 1999), pp. 210 
Th· 
· 
llJ.gs 
\\ ( 
lub!" 

When Jedediah Purdy (LAW '01) was 
younger, his sister Hannah (ART '02.) could 
silence him by shouting their code word: 
"Club!" Jedediah's penchant for long, 
didactic orations led Hannah to seek some 
sort of recourse. If only the reading public 
of America were lucky enough to have the 
same agreement with Jedediah, it could be 
spared the flatness and sanctimony of For 
Common Things, his overextended rumina-
tion on "Irony, Trust, and Commitment in 
America Today." 


According to Purdy, his book is "the 
work of a love letter, a form that is litcle 
practiced today." And what is it that he 
loves? The things that we hold in common: 
the environment, politics and culture, 
which he thinks are easily divisible into 
three "systems of ecology": natural, moral 
and social. Purdy takes us on a rambling 
tour through these ecological systems. He 
drags us along with his friends Albert 
Camus, Czeslaw Milosz, Henry David 
Thoreau, Michel de Montaigne, Vaclav 
Havel and Bill Clinton, just to name a few 
of the figures he quotes, attacks, defends 
and nearly deifies. We also make stops in 
West Virginia (where he was born and 
raised by his hippie parents), the scrip-
mined towns of the Appalachians, and 
Washington, o.c. 


Certainly, Purdy has put his finger on 
a valid problem--contemporary America's 
apathy toward nature, morality and soci-
ety-and 
amassed a stag-
gering arsenal 
of knowledge. 
But to what /_/--~ 
end? 
Rather than 
yoking together these disparate 
minds into some sort of elegant conceit, 
Purdy offers their opinions and actions 
only as symptoms of and reactions to the 
grossest indecency humankind endures in 
its current state of turpitude: irony. Yes, it 
is irony, that rhetorical form which has last-
ed centuries and has provided the back-
bone of some of our greatest literature, that 
makes such villains as Jerry Seinfeld the 
emblems of our culture. Purdy, therefore, 
takes up the noble and ambitious task of 
"describing and diagnosing irony." Bur 
rather than confronting irony and trying to 
understand how and why it permeates our 
society, Purdy mounts his soapbox and 
StartS on a long, erring road to nothing in 
particular. 


What Purdy attacks as irony proves to 
be as amorphous and expansive as his book; 
for Purdy, irony includes cynkism, sar-
casm, politicians' rhetoric, and an inability 
to communicate emotions and thought. 
And that irony, Purdy would have us 
believe, has paralyzed us. It has engendered 
a fear that prevents us from taking any-
thing or anyone seriously: "It is a fear of 
betrayal, disappointment, and humiliation, 
and a suspicion that believing, hoping, or 
caring too much will open us 
to these. Irony is a way of 
refusing to rely on such 
treacherous things." Irony is 
both the cause and the effect of 
our unwillingness to pursue the 
"common things" Purdy advises 
us to embrace. 


Can irony be both cause and effect? 
Wouldn't it be ironic if it could? The 
biggest problem with Purdy's book is that 
irony-that specter of moral and social 
degradation that looms over the reader-is 
not clearly defined until page 203. And 
even then, Purdy provides an inelegant and 
defensive definition that undoes much of 
the previous 2.02 pages: "ln its textbook 
sense, irony refers to the presence in a state-
ment or experience of an unexpected 
meaning, a significance beyond and con-
trary to the obvious. Our contemporary 
irony shrugs off, doubts, and reassembles 
significance to drain words of evocation, 
beauty and moral weight. It discovers 
behind 
meaning 
the 
fact 
of its 
insignificance." 


But that is not the irony Purdy dis-
cusses and laments throughout the book. 
By the time he offers up this definition to 
his readers, he has so complicated the term 
"irony" that such a neat definition is not 
only impossible, but so reductionist that it 
renders his whole missio~ pointless. Take as 
an example his treatment of language and 
politics-a subject he should have left to 
THE NEW JouRNAL 



**Title: Review of Jedediah Purdy's Book**
**Author: Alan Schomfeld**
**Page number(s): 35**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
the more graceful and, well, ironic prose of 
terms like "Promethean politics" and 
focus his critical eye on anything in partie-
George Orwell. 

"Prozac morality," which punctuate the 
ular. 

Purdy curses contemporary politics 
book with an irritating and anxious fre-
from the outset: "We live in the disap-
quency, in order to lend substance to the 
pointed aftermath of a politics that aspired 
insufficiently-developed concepts these 
to change the human predicament in ele-
terms are meant to represent. Once Purdy 
mental ways, but whose hopes have 
develops o.oe of these terms to a point he 
resolved into heavy disillusionment." In 
deems sufficient, he offers up another term 
order to cover up for its failures, politics has 
as a reaction to the problems posed by the 
used, abused and corrupted language. 
first term. For example, the "Promethean 
Politicians deceive the American people in 
politics" of yore--"rebellion against what is 
order to gain their support, telling us what 
in favor of what might be"-has given way 
we want to hear and doing what we don't 
to "therapeutic politics," a superficial 
wane them to do. They are "undignified, 
means of addressing real, pressing prob-
disreputable, vaguely ridiculous, and thor-
lems. Not unlike Purdy's book itself. 
oughly outmoded." As a result of their 
After 
meandering 
through 
this 
deception, the language they use has 
inscrutable forest of badly presented cri-
become cliche, and American .....:....---------------~_;;.... _________ work as containing an element 
citizens, as members of the 
\\ 
b 11· 
h 
that is inescapably public. This 
political and linguistic com-
R e e I 0 n a g a i n st w at is i n 
identification does not happen by 
munmes 
that 
politicians 
faVOr Of What might be"- haS 
accident ... Today a person belongs 
inhabit and control, suffer 
to a tradition only inasmuch as she 
insecurity and "vertigo, a 
g i v en way t 0 s u p e rfi cia 1 me a n s 
seeks it out, aligns herself with it, 
dizzy uncertainty that any-
and puts herself in its line of tute-
thingis as itseems." 
Of addressing real problemS. 
So Purdy laments the 
lage." Again, Purdy undoes the 
slippagebetweensignifierand 
Not unlike Purdy's book itself. 
line of reasoning he so ploddingly 
signified: "Sometimes words 
outlined. If an individual must 
get away from us. They come --------------------------- choose to become a part of a tradi-
unmoored from the things they represent. 
tion, like the tradition of irony, 
tiques of irony, Purdy really offers no solid 
doesn't that mean that all of us ironic folk 
Nearly everyone has repeated a common 
plans to de-ironiz.e our culture. Rather, he 
are so smarmy by choice? Are we suffering 
word dozens of times until it suddenly 
again undermines his own logic with hap-
from some sort of f.Lise consciousness that 
becomes unfamiliar, a collection of foreign 
hazard suggestions about ways people have 
makes us believe that we choose to be iron-
sounds divorced from their familiar mean-
already attempted to confront that scourge 
ic, when we are just the products of an 
ing." So is it the fault of politicians that 
of society. For example, Purdy devotes a 
ironic culture? 
words have no meaning or is it just a result 
considerable amount of space to explaining 
It is admirable that someone of our 
of the fact that words enter the commerce 
the proliferation of books about angels. It 
generation would try to analyze the apathy 
of ideas and are easily worn to the point 
seems that the American people, so fed up 
and cynicism that permeate our interaction 
where meaning and word are divorced? 
with their ironic culture, have turned to the 
with each other and with society as a 
Purdy would rather place the blame where 
other world for support: "Ministering to 
whole. But a compendium of quotes 
it is most expedient for the task of his book, 
our sadness and loneliness, [angels] assure 
bound together by flimsy ideology and 
rather than look at any intricacy of society. 
us that we are not unloved. Our feelings 
even weaker logic is certainly not the way 
His generalizations sweep, his criticisms fly 
matter to another being--our guardian 
to go about it. By writing a condescending, 
~y 
and his tone is unduly grave. 
angel-as much as they do to us." Seinfeld 
poorly argued book, Jedediah Purdy only 
And while all of this is to the detri-
and his ironic compatriots make us feel so 
drives people of our generation to further 
lllent of his argument, nothing hurts his 
alienated from the human world that we 
apathy and cynicism toward those who, 
task as much as his inability to pick a point 
turn to angels. Are ironic people so dehu-
like Purdy, are actually interested in fixing 
of contention and maintain an intelligent 
maniz.ed that they are incapable of showing 
society's problems. How ironic. 
t8J 
and coherent argument about it. He goes 
love and emotion to those who are most 
off on tangent after tangent after digres-
important to them? With vainglorious 
lion. Like ·those he attacks, Purdy uses Ian-
flourish, Purdy offers up his grand, exag-
&Uage to cover up the flimsiness and 
gerated assumptions about the human 
1Uper6ciality of his arguments. He develops 
predicament without taking the time to 
OcroaER 15, 1999 
A/4n Schomfold, a sophomore in Saybroolt 
Colkge, is a research director for TN]. 
3S 



**Title: The Psychic Fair**
**Author: Carey Knecht**
**Page number(s): 36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
CL"om the back hall of the North Haven Holiday Inn, over 
have come. Why would I come to a psychic fair if not to be healed, 
r 
~e odor of stale cigarette smoke and bleached linens, 
learn of my past lives and connect with my spirit guides? But I can-
comes a new smell, clean and minty. There, past the ice machine 
not yet accept my destiny, and go on to the next table. 
and the cocktail lounge, good health and spiritual well-being beck-
"Asking me to explain crystals," the woman says, "is like asking 
ons. 
me to explain the universe." She goes on to explain how every-
! pay my $4 admission fee and enter the fluorescently lit 
thing-animals, vegetables and minerals--gives off a particular 
Ambassador Stateroom. At the moment, I appear to be the ~..-!S::::--,-. 
electromagnetic frequency. These frequencies can interact. 
only visitor without an appointment, and the eyes of the 
They can attract or repel each other. Each crystal is dif-
vendors are upon me. All around, intuitive healers are 
ferent. How could I ever find the right one, I won-
hoping-sensing, maybe-that I seek their particu-
der? "The best place to start is to find one that 
lar brand of healing. 
attracts you. People sometimes pick one up and 
On my left is a booth for Ki treatments. On 
say, 'I don't know why, but I just like this one,' 
the right sparkles an array of crystals. Behind me 
and I'll tell them what it means, and they'll say, 
burns peppermint incense oil, and aromatherapy 
'Wow, that's just what's happening in my life 
vials stretch in pharmaceutical rows. Psychics and 
right now."' I try to feel energy from the crystals, 
their clients lean together in private consultation 
but all I feel is a desire to step away, to stop the 
along the far wall. And there in the middle, behind a 
high-pitched buzzing in my head. When I give in to 
long table, a man sits. He smiles at me. He's waiting for 
the electromagnetic repulsion, and walk away, the 
me. 
buzzing ceases. 

My destiny is clear, but I choose to delay it. I pass to the left, 
where two Asian men in starched red robes with black calligraphy 
work on a man stretched out on a table. One rhythmically pumps 
the man's chest and stomach; the other, his legs. They breathe force-
fully, with mechanical regularity--one in long "swooosh"s, the 
other with quick "hoof hoof hoof"s. In the rhythm of these three, 
pulsating as one being, throbs the heartbeat of this lonely room. 
A brochure proclaims this process to be a Ki (Energy) treat-
ment, "Your Chance to Create Your Own Health and Well-Being." 
The brochure explains the metaphysics of the process. "lG is nor 
only the basic component of matter, bur also the mind of matter. 
Thus everything one thinks and feels is transmitted to the body via 
the energy system. When there is harmony between body and 
mind, the energy flows smoothly, but when there is discord, it 
becomes blocked, which eventually leads to disease." Will I allow 
my energy to be unblocked? Will I rebalance my earth and heaven 
energies? "When all the energy channels that connect with heaven 
energy and all the energy channels that connect with earth energy 
are open, we begin to receive the original energy that created life. 
This energy has the power to renew cells, regenerate all the body 
functions, and return the mind to its original state of goodness and 
beauty." Will I allow my mind to return, to be beautiful and good? 
I glance at the man in the center, who still seems to be looking 
at me. On the end of his table are more fliers. I feel drawn to read 
them, or at least ro approach the cable. "Would you like to make an 
appointment with one of our psychics?" Ah, perhaps this is why I 


At an adjacent table, I find Daniel Brener, M.s., an aro-
matherapist. He tells me that certain essences in plan~sential 
oils--can affect people's emotional and physical health. Kind of like 
a combination ofProzac and Vicks Nasal Spray, I wonder? His Bier 
explains the benefits of rosemary essential oil. "Exhilarating, pene-
trating, activating. Stimulates the brow chakra (third eye/pineal 
gland). Enhances mental clarity, concentration, memory, and cre-
ativity. Useful for studying, computer work, and all intellectually 
demanding pursuits. Helps clear negative energy from one's aura 
and environment; has a 'protective' quality. Promotes self-
confidence, courage, determination. Beneficial for the liver, gall-
bladder, immune and respiratory systems ... excellent for wounds 
and burns. Stimulates hair growth ... " 
Bur for me Brener suggests a scent based on my astrological 
sign, Capricorn. He tells me that Capricorns typically have prob-
lems with their bones and joints, especially knees. "Do you have 
problems with your knees?" he asks. "Well, yes," I say. "Bur only 
from running." Of course, only from running. 

If I won't let my knee problem be cured, he can still make me 
a personal scent. I can come to his shop, and he will have me smell 
a selection of scents. The ones most beneficial to my body will nat-
urally attract me. Once I find a group of six or so that I like, he'll 
blindfold me to remove other stimuli for the final selection process, 
have me smell them again, and from the final three concoct an odif-
erous medication. This process isn't like going into a pharmacy and 
doing shots until discovering the right medicine. These medications 
by Carey Knecht 
THE NEW JouRNAL 


**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Carin Knight**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
work with the natural energy Bows in your 
body, and are much milder. 

Expert advice is still necessary, of 
course. "Essential oils are highly concen-
trated and should be used with respect and 
extreme care. Never take essential oils inter-
nally without the guidance of a profession-
al Aromatherapist," Bretter writes in a Bier. 
He knows all the properties of the oils and 
will help me avoid using ones that might 
have harmful effects. H e "assume[s] no 
responsibility if [I] choose to prescribe for 
[myself] without the approval of a licensed 
medical doctor." 

Finally, I come back around to the 
man at the central table, the psychics' 
receptionist, 
their 
boolcing 
agent. 
Immediately he asks me, "Are you ready to 
make an appointment with one of the psy-
chics?" I ask him who the psychics are, and 
as he rattles off their names and specialties, 
I match his face to the picture on the 
brochure. He is the Reverend Robert 
Stempson, fair organizer, and director of a 
higher learning center-"PHD I A Center 
of Conscious Living." 

He tells me my choices for psychics: 
James, who does intuitive readings and 
past-life regressions, a specialist in helping 
people connect with spirit guides; Thea 
who does tarot; as does Donna, who also 
uses a crystal ball. How will I ever pick the 
right psychic? As I come to understand, the 
tarot deck and crystal ball are only tools. 
What is important is that the psychic gets 
in touch with my subconscious and pick 
up on my spiritual energy. I decide to go 
with my feelings and speak with Thea. 

Thea lays the tarot cards on the table 
and instructs me to shuffle them while con-
centrating on the questions I want her to 
answer. She clarifies, with practiced preci-
sion: "You can concentrate on multiple 
questions, but concentrate on each, one at 
a time." 

I take the cards and awkwardly begin 
to mix them. They are bigger than my 
hands, so I can't really shuffie them, but I 
keep cutting and restaclcing them. I try to 
concentrate on a question, bur one thought 
8ows into the next, and I concentrate on 
none, just mixing and remixing the cards. I 
rtalize I'm talcing quite a long time. I set 
0croBER 15, 1999 
down the cards and laugh self-consciously. 
"Just trying to make sure I concentrate." 

Thea doesn't hear me. She is staring at 
a spot in the air somewhere. Donna's tarot 
flier says, "When the querent handles the 
cards, their energy is passed on through 
them ... whether they are barely touched by 
you or thoroughly shuffled, they will come 
out the way they are meant to." 

Thea walks me through an elaborate 
scheme to select a card. She considers it. 
"Hmmm .. .Is there something going on in 
your life, maybe something you're coming 
out of now? Some sort of negative person 
in your life?" Stammering, confused, I 
deflect, I postpone. "Ummm. What do you 
mean by 'happening'? I don't, uh, really 
know ... " 

In the face of my uncooperation, she 
proceeds. This card you picked represents 
the state of your life right now, she says, 
and reveals it: the Five of Crystals, 
Negativity. A strongly negative force is 
attached to me right now. She tries to soft-
en the blow, but I still reel from the diag-
nosis. I surrender myself for healing. 

In a flurry, she lays out 12 cards, a 
dizzying circle of images. She explains how 
each card hints at what may be coming in 
my life. It seems my current frustration will 
end with a period of spiritual death and 
rebirth, a "letting go" of things that trouble 
me. Now that she is practicing her exper-
tise, I feel more secure and put myself in 
her hands, earnestly offering up details so 
her analysis can be more accurate. She lis-
tens to my concerns. Reassurance from 
Donna's flier rings in my ears: "The cards 
can give you answers to questions, but we 
all have free will. If you are not happy with 
the reading, you can take steps to change 
things. I think of the cards as a guideline to 
the way things will happen if we continue 
to travel on the same path we are on." The 
problems I face all seem so manageable 
now. "Those are my business cards," Thea 
says. "Take one. If you need to talk some-
time, give me a call." 

Ill] 


**Title: Ethel & Ernest**
**Author: RAYMOND BRIGGS**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"The creator of The Snowman 
turns his magical paintbrushes 
on his own parents in this 
funny book, which is bound to 
bring a tear to your eye ... You'll 
learn more about the changes 
of the last century than you 
will in most history textbooks" 
-THE TIMES 
au en 
A '!RUE S'TOitY 
• • t hut o I T H f: $ N 0 W M A.'<' 
"A book which with its sheer 
charm, its fun, its sense of peri-
od, and the surefootedness of 
its character and dialogue will 
leave most novels standing ... A 
deeply touching labor of 
love ... Raymond Briggs has 
given us a classic:' 
-EVENING STANDARD 
Children's book author-illustrator has adopted the graphic novel form to tell the story 
of his parents' lives. From their meeting in 1928, Ethel & Ernest illustrates working 
class London through the Depression, World War II and on into the 60s and 70s. 
Published by Random House and availible now at Bookhaven



BOOKHAVEN 
~ 290 YORK STREET 
~ <203> 787-2848 

