Publication date: October 2003
Volume: 36
Issue number: 1

**MASTHEAD:**
- **PUBLISHER:** Michtul &ibrl
- **EDITOR-IN-CHIEF:** Kathryn Malizia
- **MANAGING EDITORS:** ]llCOb Bl«hrr, Clinton Czrro/J
- **DESIGNER:** Jessica Chang
- **BUSINESS MANAGER:** Michatl AtkUson
- **PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR:** Paigt Atlrinson
- **ASSOCIATE EDITORS:** F/qra Lichtman, Paigt Austin
- **RESEARCH DIRECTOR:** Ana Munoz
- **CIRCULATION AND SUBSCRIPTIONS MANAGER:** Ana Munoz


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- FEATURES
- New Rock City - Flora Lichtman
- The Crossing - Paige Austin
- Mr. Clean - April Rabkin
- STANDARDS
- Points of Departure
- Shots in the Dark: Under the Canopy - Paigt Atkinson
- Essay: Bye Bye Blackbirds - Tom Iskr
- The Critical Angle: Casting Tolstoy - Matvt Hubm
- Endnote: How Yale Are You? - !Vzthryn Malizia


**Title: New Rock City**
**Author: Flora Lichtman**
**Page number(s): 8**
Can an aging hipster and a preacher's son revitalize New Haven's dying music 
scene?


**Title: The Crossing**
**Author: Paige Austin**
**Page number(s): 16**
How 10 temporary workers went from scabs to strikers and redefined racial boundaries 
at Yale?


**Title: Mr. Clean**
**Author: April Rabkin**
**Page number(s): 22**
After running the most expensive campaign in New Haven history, Mayor john 
Destefano gets cheap.


**Title: Points of Departure**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 5**


**Title: Shots in the Dark: Under the Canopy**
**Author: Paigt Atkinson**
**Page number(s): 14**


**Title: Essay: Bye Bye Blackbirds**
**Author: Tom Iskr**
**Page number(s): 24**


**Title: The Critical Angle: Casting Tolstoy**
**Author: Matvt Hubm**
**Page number(s): 26**


**Title: Endnote: How Yale Are You?**
**Author: !Vzthryn Malizia**
**Page number(s): 30**



**Jolly Green Giant**
**Author: Adriane Quinlan**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Jolly Green Giant 
THERE IS A SCENE IN Groundhog Day in whlch 
Phil Conors (played by Bill Murray) sits like 
a king in a Punxsutawney diner, chewing hls 
way through an array of the town's most deli-
ciously fatty offerings. In this small town 
haunt, an everyman can seem like an emper-
or-and that's just what Murray is. 

Customers stare curiously at this plain-look-
ing man over their apple pies and cheeseburg-
ers. "I don't know how to thank you," a 
young man says, "You saved my life." A sec-
ond later a woman cannot help but hug him 
and cry, "You saved my marriage!" 

The only newcomer to the diner looks 
on, and finally blurts our, "How is it that all 
these people know you?" 

Sitting in Willoughby's with Jake 
Weinstein, I feel like that newcomer. Like 
Phil Conor's fellow diners, everyone in this 
Chapel Street coffee shop seems to know 
Weinstein. A regular guy who prefers organic 
herbal Raspberry tea to Conor's selection of 
artery-clogging indulgences, Weinstein has a 
similar local celebrity and a good grasp on 
life. 

A bespectacled man with a bicycle in tow 
is one of the many customers who recognizes 
Weinstein. Though he falls short of crediting 
Jake for saving his marriage, he can't help 
extol Weinstein's virrues: "Jake's the greatest. 
He's very devoted to everything he does. He 
is very simply a remarkable human being." 

And, not to mention, a clown. You may 
have seen him floating above the Chapel 
Street crowd on his nine-foot stilts, and if so, 
you may even count yourself among his 
legion of followers: The students who gleeful-
ly recognize him on sidewalks, the children 
who worship him each Saturday, or the busi-
nessmen who love to engage him in debate on 
local politics. "I have some regulars," 
Weinstein concedes humbly. "A few people 
make a point of coming out every Saturday. 
There are even some 
homeless 
people 
who really enjoy it." 

Admitting even 
this much is a 
con cession 
for 
Weinstein, who is 
modest about every-
thing. Stop and chat 
with him and he 
probably won't men-
tion that he's a regis-
tered nurse, a politi-
cal activist, a teacher 
of "circus artS," and 
the founder of New 
Haven's first recy-
cling program. But 
despite his impres-
sive resume, he is 
still best known for 
his street perfor-
mances. 

He's 
been 
working Chapel Street for over 
ten years, and though he admits 
he got into it for the money, it has 
evolved into something more. 
"I'm really passionate about street 
performing." he explains. "Ideally 
I'd like to be able to use laughter to bring out 
injustices in the world. I don't believe by any 
means that everything in clowning needs to 
be political, but we can use laughter as a tool 
for healing." 

Weinstein is one of New Haven's most 
eccentric, and most overlooked, minor 
celebrities, a kind of local saint spreading joy 
wherever he goes. For the past two years, Jake 
has toured the city as a clown, visiting chil-
dren's hospitals and performing for young 
patients. As the Circus Director for Roger's 
Barn Community Circus, he has ample 
knowledge of subjectS ranging from puppet 
set construc-
tion. Earlier this 
year, he worked with 
students from two New 
Haven schools constructing enor-
mous puppets that were later fes-
tooned with protest banners and re~ 
used by the Yale strikers. Weinstein 
also teaches downing and street per-
formance, and he spends his sum-
mers as the set designer for the 
Children's Circus of Middletown. 

And, of course, he's a family man 
with a daughter at Boston University 
and a son who bikes with rum all over 
town. 

This month, Weinstein is plan-
ning to travel down the east coast 
with half a dozen "Puppetistas", or 
political puppeteers. They will per-
form at various stops on the road to 
Georgia, where they will join thou-
sands of protestors outside the 
School of the Americas. Their show 
is called "Uncle Sam's Little Global 
Circus." Weinstein explains it as a 
satire of globalization: "Uncle Sam 
has a map of the world and he tears 
off one continent at a time and eats 
it. The play concerns how he deals 
with his indigestion." 

But Weinstein bas not always been a 
down. He started out as a nurse delivering 
babies, but quit to found New Haven's first 
recycling service, a non-profit called Rainbow 
Recycling. "At its zenith," Weinstein recalls 
with a chuckle, Ratnbow Recycling was 
"seven hippies and a truek-" In addition to 
recycling. the group visited local schools reg-
ularly and led workshops on environmental 
issues. But Weinstein's interest in education 
took the program a step funher. "We had a 
upe called 'Songs for the Compost Pile' 
which really grew, and that's actually how I 
got started in theater," he says. "We started 
making puppets for the shows and downing 
and I loved it." 

So he started performing on the side, 
picking Chapel Street because of its broad 
sidewalks and wealthy patrons. "It has its ups 
and downs," he admits. "The worst that hap-
pens is some people might be intoxicated and 
they start dancing and singing and perform-
ing with you, but that's the life of a street per-
former." 

Sirting in a friendly coffee shop, 
Weinstein may be recognized as the local 
renaissance man, but to the random passerby 
be is simply a man on the street, embarrassing 
himself as a glorified panhandler. "People on 
the street get upset about clowns sometimes," 
be confesses. "They'll mutter under their 
brath as they walk by and shake their heads. 
But. you know, they think we're people who 
can't do anything else, because a street per-
former is not an elevated station in life--
whkh is ironic because, of course, I'm on 
stilts ... 


**The Man Who Wasn't There**
**Author: Jacob Bachen**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

hIS A CRAY AFTERNOON, and Ernesto Zedillo 
Rands at the front of a packed campus audi-
torium ready to speak. The former President 
of Mexico and current head of the Yale 
Center for the Study of Globalization is slat-
ed to enlighten the audience with a rigorous 
diaecrion of the collapse of the September 
World Trade Organization (wro} conference 
ia Cancun. He gets straight to the point: 
~2003 
Free trade is good, and the Western World 
has abandoned the cause. With stately poise, 
he castigates the United States as "foolish," 
even "incompetent," and demands a renewed 
commitment ro laissa.-foire capitalism. 

Zedillo's speech confirms a fact that has 
become glaringly obvious in recent months: 
The Globalization Center does not exist to 
study globalization so much as to exalt it. 
Since ZediUo began his tenure last spring, the 
Center has committed itself to spreading the 
gospel of the free market. The question at 
hand for ZediUo and his colleagues is not 
whether globalization is good or bad, real or 
imagined, but how it can most quickly and 
effectively be realized so as to shower us all 
with its gifts-economic stabilization, allevia-
tion of poverty, world peace. The Center's 
decidedly ideological aim is meant to go hand 
in hand with the expansion of the University 
itsel£ Yale founded the center primarily to 
attract international scholars and students 
and to extend Yale's relevance beyond 
America's borders. 

In choosing a direccor it would have 
been hard to come up with a more controver-
sial choice than Zedillo. His presidency in 
Mexico was riddled with corruption. His 
party, the Institutional Revolutionary Party 
(PRJ), is notorious for having laid the 
groundwork for the effiorescence of 
the narcotics trade, Mexico's largest 
and most profitable industry. The 
details of Zedillo's 
alleged 
crooked dealings are hazy at 
Publicly, he is considered 
an outsider, a good man who 
came into power accidentally (he 
stepped in at the last minute to run for the 
presidency in 1994 when PRJ candidate Luis 
Donaldo Colosio, whose campaign Zedillo 
ran, was murdered) and took a hard-line 
stance against drugs and government corruP' 
tion, despite alleged ties berween members of 
his administration and narco-traffickers. 

Beneath the public veneer, however, 
whispers abound. Soon afrer his election, the 
United States' Drug Enforcement Agency 
(oEA) alleged that the president received $40 
million from the Cali cartel for his campaign; 
Zedillo immediately denied the allegation 
(and, mysteriously, the DEA followed suit 
shortly thereafter). Another U.S. investiga-
tion in 1998 tipped off by drug lords uncov-
ered a possible link berween Zedillo and a 
multi-billion 
dollar 
money-laundering 
scheme. His family, too, has been implicated. 
Zedillo's former drug czar, afrer being impris-
oned for corruption, told a judge in 1997 that 
he once investigated Zedillo's relatives for 
connections to the business; rumors have his 
brother dealing methamphetamines. 

Whatever the extent of ZediJio's direct 
involvement in the Mexican drug trade, one 
thing seems clear: His government was cor-
rupt, and it could not have functioned any 
other way. Mexico runs on drugs. The market 
infiltrates every corner of its society, making 
the idea of clean politics in Mexico meaning-
less. Journalist C harles Bowden, who has 
written extensively about the drug war, put it 
to me bluntly: "There is no yardstick for hon-
esty down there." 

Critics of Zedillo miss the point when 
they charge that a former backroom politician 
is too dishonest to lead the Globalization 
Center. To the contrary, Zedillo is extremely 
well qualified to lead a center committed to 
liberalizing global trade: He is a man who 
understands first-hand the workings and 
power of one of the world's only ttue free 
markets, one which has brought immense 
wealth imo a country that wouJd otherwise 
be devastated by poverty. 

In that sense, the Globalization Cemer 
may be one of the most covertly radical 
think-tanks in the country. In a recent article 
in YakG/.obaL Onlin~ that he wrote to accom-
pany his talk on the wro, Zedillo does not 
hide the grandiose plans that lie at the back of 
his mind. "The international communiry," he 
writes, "should set itself a goal that the world 
should be free of aJI barriers to trade in goods 
and services by no later than 2025." These 
staid words may sound innocuous in the 
stuffy pages of a universiry magazine, but we 
should not underestimate the political will 
that lies behind them. 


**Boys to Men**
**Author:  (Not specified)**
**Page number(s): 6**

ON NoVEMBER 8, THE YAL£- AFFtLIATED com-
muniry service organization Present Fathers 
plans to take a trip to the Bridgeport Zoo--
but not just to admire the aardvarks or wave 
to the walruses. Present Fathers is an offshoot 
of the Male Involvement Nerwork (MIN), a 
New Haven-based initiative which operates a 
social service nerwork for fathers in New 
Haven. MIN's mission is to reconnect divorced 
fathers with their estranged children and to 
improve family life by providing dads with 
healthier life options. A trip to the zoo may 
not erase the pain of growing up without a 
father, or help a lonely man who cannot 
support himself, but it may be enough 
to start building a f.unily. At least, that 
is what Germano Kimbro is hop-
ing for. 

Kimbro, born and bred in 
New Haven, embraces the chal-
lenge of providing help for fami-
lies in MIN, and in the present 
economic slump, with high 
demand for social services and 
little money, it is quite a chal-
lenge. As project coordinator of 
MJN, Kimbro is fully responsible for expand-
ing MIN's influence and taking the program in 
new directions. Perhaps his impact is best evi-
denced in the less than idealistic approach 
MIN has taken to irs services. The program 
does not promise a social soma to eliminate 
poverry, but aims to encourage fathers to set 
an example for their families through healthy 
decision-making. MIN's goal is not to aug-
ment a pauilineal hierarchy by reestablishing 
the man as the leader of the family; instead, 
MIN's aim is to enable men to define their 
roles in relation to women and children and 
to recognize that what they can give, whether 
it be money or just their free time, can help 
their kids. "We are interested in strengthen-
ing the family through father involvement by 
connecting them to housing, education, 
employment and health opportunities," Mr. 
Kimbro explained. 

The program takes a holistic approach to 
emphasizing physical well-being and emo-
tional stabiliry. The project coordinators and 
staff urge men co make an "emotional com-
mitment" to their program, which is intend-
ed to be an "aggressive outreach before the 
point of crisis." The center provides an eight 
week seminar class covering topics 
like nutrition, pre-natal care, and 
the responsibiliry of a father to his 
children. MIN builds a safery net 
so that participantS in the pro-
gram do not revert back to old 
habits. Kimbro stressed the 
need to stop perpetuating the 
cycle of abandonment by not 
exposing children to the same 
risks - their parents were 
exposed co. He urges the 
men in the program to real-
ize a connection berween 
the physical, mental, and 
spiritual forces of their 
lives--a somewhat organic 
approach to social service. 


**Title: Men's Initiative Network**
**Author: Romy Druckn-**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
=.on 
• 
MIN also offers legal advice to fathers try-
ing to rejoin their families. Herein lies the 
greatest challenge for MIN. The definition of 
family in the state of Connecticut has essen-
tially "reduced fathers to a paycheck," claims 
Mr. Kimbro. His network challenges the 
courtroom perception of estranged fathers as 
"deadbeats," by fighting for the rights of 
those who are not aware of their obligations 
as claimed paten. "Some of these men need to 
be reprogrammed as to what their role as men 
is," Kimbro said. 

At first, Kimbro took his fight to the 
streets. He would sit in his parked car outside 
one of the most "notorious housing develop-
ments in New Haven," and try to recruit men 
who looked in need of help. That was six 
years ago. Today, as MIN's project coordinator, 
Kimbro deals with administrative issues, and 
works cowards improving the delivery of 
social services as a whole. In the last quarter, 
115 men were enrolled in MIN, and in the last 
month and a half, MIN has gained another 40 
clients. Mr. Kimbro stressed the mental 
aspect of the development program, arguing 
that for decades African Americans have had 
a cultural aversion to accessing mental health 
and clinical services, explaining. "With 
poverty, comes unhealthy and dysfunctional 
behavior," he told me. 

The lessons caught in MIN may seem 
ridiculously basic, reminiscent of an awkward 
middle school health class. And, indeed, these 
fathers are nurtured as if they were children. 
But it is all a part of Kimbro's plan, a sort of 
cyclical approach where he treats f.uhers as 
they ought to treat their own children. A trip 
to the zoo, or that first breakthrough that 
OCcurs between a child and his father, vali-
dates MIN's mission. The simple lessons are 
what linger and resonate in people's lives and 
communities. 
• -Romy Druckn-
OcrosER 2003 


**Title: Berkeley College Tea Series**
**Author: Not specified**

Chef 
Jacques Pepin 
VVednesday,October15 

Poet and Critic 
-Wayne Koestenbaum 
Thursday, October 23 

Novelist 
-Edna O'Brien 
Monday, October 27 

Teas begin at 4:00 pm 
Berkeley College Master's House 
125 High Street 
7 


**Title: New Haven's Music Scene**
**Page number(s): 9**

' " 
-
T 
here is something shaking New Haven. It is big enough to swal-
low up faith, politics, and maybe even the universe. Two local 
guys claim to understand ir. They are harnessing the power of 
music co pur New Haven on the culniral ma~ne by exponing local 
talent and the ocher by bringing national talent in. An artistic revolu-
tion may be just around the corner-or so they say. 

One of these venues is The Space, leased and operated by Steve 
Rodgers, rhe man set on releasing local talent to the nation. Rodgers 
has jet black hair, tattoos, spits when he smokes, and looks just weath-
ered enough co be credible. Bur his appearance is deceiving: Hipster he 
may be, bur he is first and foremost rhe son of Peter Rodgers, former 
preacher at St. John's Episcopal Church on Humphrey Street, and a 
recendy born-again Christian. He works as the music director for a 
church and is active with a Christian mission group. After troubles with 
alcohol, Steve said he cleaned up and found what he needed just 
around rhe corner, literally. The Space is only a few minutes from where 
he lives and just blocks from where his father praised God rwice a week 
for 35 years. Ir is his salvation and a natural extension of his father's 
good work-Steve, like his dad, is interested in building a community. 

Bur unlike Reverend Rogers, Steve ministers to a congregation that 
worships music. As one Space patron pur it, "Some people go co 
church, bur my church is right here on Tuesday nights." 

New Haven's other burgeoning music mecca, BAR, located on 
Crown Street, could not be mistaken for a church, and Rick Omante, 
its new promoter, is unlikely to be mistaken for a rock star. But he was 
one: His old band Spring Heeled Jack usA played the Warped Tour, 
toured internationally and cur rwo full length records. Despite his 
whirlwind past, the former hipster has a young face and an irreverent 
attitude. "I'm convinced my pact with the devil keeps me looking 
young," he jokes. After his band broke up, he came to New Haven and 
starred booking Sunday night shows for BAR. In his shore tenure, rhe 
club has gone from hosting open mics co attracting national aces-a 
formidable accomplishment. But still more work must be done if Rick 
plans co resurrect New Haven as a musically important ciry, lee alone 
have it surpass what it once was. 
OCTOBER 2003 

N 
cw Haven's claim to national prominence has nor always been 
so tenuous. Forry years ago, The Schubert was a testing ground 
for Broadway shows. Thirry years ago, Toad's drew the likes of 
Bob Dylan, BB King, and the Rolling Stones. Until recendy, rhe Tune 
Inn, a club located on Center Street near the newly redeveloped Ninth 
Square, was the epitome of hip. W ith room for 500, Tune Inn lines 
often coiled around the block. Owner Fernando Pinke brought in 
everything from industry giants like Nirvana to indie darlings like the 
Dismemberment Plan. "It was a dump, and it was awesome," remem-
bers Omanre. "It was just what you'd expect-bath rooms didn't work, 
stickers everywhere, weirdo people working the door." Sadly, the Tune 
Inn, in all its glory, was a doomed venture. O ur of sync with the aims 
of the Nimh Square developers, fire marshals and cops began turning 
up at concerts with measuring tape and concerns about capaciry. In 
2001, the last holdout from New Haven's once great music scene closed 
its doors. 

Memories of these good old days still inspire some, though, and 
the Tune Inn's furniture, at least, is being put to good use. The Space 
acquired the old bar from the Tune Inn, which spores a "Fernando's 
Liquor" sign in the far corner. But there is no boozing at The Space. 
Nor is there smoking, misbehaving, or talking. The Space is different-
"Nighr and day from the Tune Inn," says Rick. "Like if J dropped an 
M&M on the floor ofThe Space, I would probably pick it up and eat it. 
O r at lease I wouldn't have a problem picking ir up off the ground. At 
the Tune Inn, you know, it hie the ground and you left it for dead. Even 
if your friend fell over, you wouldn't pick anybody up once they hit the 
ground." 

Bur cleanliness isn't the only characteristic that separates the rwo 
venues. The music scene Steve envisions for New Haven will be order· 
ly in a way that the Tune Inn never was. Steve describes The Space as 
"a classroom with velvet lights." Like in any classroom, there are lots of 
rules, the most notable of which are printed on pocket-sized fliers sit-
ting on a card table that serves as the ticker booth: "No drugs or alco-
hol allowed; No smoking inside; Dispose of gum in the crash (not on 
rhe floor); No fighting (even verbally); No rough playing." 
9 



**The Space**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The Space sits in an industrial park on 
the border of Hamden and New Haven. It 
shares the asphalt and concrete terrain with 
five inner city churches and a handful of 
shops. In its previous life, The Space was the 
sixth church in this no man's land. A week 
before the 
church 
closed, Steve Rodgers 
was evicted from the 
warehouse where he 
had 
lived 
and 
entertained, hosting 
underground 
(and 
illegal) open mics for 
nine years. The tim-
ing was serendipitous. 
He signed the lease 
for 
what 
would 
become The Space 
just days after he lost 
his home. 
The Space 
is a 
place for music 
lovers of 
the 
purest kind. 
Even 
so, the acts run 
the gamut from 
dud to "duuuude!"


From the outside, The Space doesn't look 
like a church, a club, or much of anything for that matter. But a peek inside reveals 
an explosion of idiosyncratic life. The venue 
is in a basement, and every inch is covered. 
Baby carriages, a miniature Winnebago, 
Christmas lights, old records, a mannequin, 
and a beauty salon chair crowd every nook. 
There is something happening at The 
Space nearly every day. But the venue is perhaps most legendary for its Tuesday night 
open mic. The shows start at 8:00 sharp and 
every performer gets just two songs. Before 
each session, Steve reminds everyone that this 
is a "listening space" and that there is no talking during performances. Although Steve 
goes out of his way to nurture local musicians, there is an 
unspoken rule 
that open mic-
ers should play 
original music. 
Covers 
are 
frowned upon. 
This, combined 
with the class-
room 
feel, 
makes 
The 
Space a place for 
music lovers of 
the purest kind. 
so, the acts 
run the gamut from dud to "duuudef" 
Ron Anthony, for one, can bring a crowd 
to tears. "Country blues or a pretty rune?" he 
asks. The audience calls for blues and so he 
plays, crooning from behind a thick grey 
mustache and oversized glasses. He starts to 
pick a simple blues progression. After a few 
bars, his Southern-edged, steady voice fills the 
room and nobody moves a muscle. You can't 
download Anthony's music on the internet 
and he's never cut a record. The only place 
you can count on him playing from one week 
to the next is in the basement of this squat 
building on a little road off of Dixwell 
Avenue on edge of New Haven. 
Obviously not every act is as sweet as 
Ron Anthony. Casper, Big Dog, and 
D-Money, for example, couldn't be more different. "Give these s.1ys a hand," Steve tells 
the crowd as he motions the band of 12-year-
olds up to the stage. Casper's dad had 
dropped them off and was probably still waiting in the parking lot. "Yo, yo ya yo, check it, 
yo ya yo yo, yo," makes up the bulk of the rap 
but there are also several near-rhymes about 
Big Dog's braces and about how Casper is 
going to get stuffed in a trash can. When they 
finish, Steve thanks them and asks for two 
more rounds of applause. One 45-year-old 
guy gives a standing ovation. This is not special treatment, though-he awards every act 
this respect. 


When the middle schoolers stomp off 
the stage, a middle-aged woman with messy 
blond hair scoots on. "Who would I be? 
What would I do? If you wanted me too?" As 
she sings, she crinkles her face in a way any 
agent would be quick to correct if her objective were fame. "I think with local music 
there is an obvious struggle to it," Steve said 
later. "There is a young guy or girl or group 
that wakes up everyday and goes to a crappy, 
crappy job, or wakes up and goes to classes 
that they couldn't care less about and the 
thing that's pushing them in life is music." As 
the blond woman walks off, catharsis complete, the crowd cheers. Afterwards, the audience members congratulate her by name and 
ask where she has been for the last few weeks. 
Steve Rodger's community is small enough 
that people are missed when they don't show 
up.


**BAR**
**Page number(s): 11**

BAR is much more hip and self-aware. 
Here, designer jeans are paired with low 
top Converse All-Stars in traditional black. 
The drink of choice is a glass of red wine or 
pale ale, depending on the show. Sunday 
night shows at BAR are advertised as starting 
at 9:00, but most begin at least an hour late. 
This tardiness is not an oversight; these shows 
are financed by bar proceeds, so Rick likes to 
give people time to drink. This system allows 
Rick to roll over profits from show to show, 
and gives him more flexibility in choosing 
what to book. If he books a profitable show, 
next week's show can be more experimental, 
and the bar can take a hit if the cut from pre-
show drinking is not enough to cover the 
band's costs. Standard fare is a couple hundred bucks per show. 


At BAR, like at The Space, musicianship 
is taken seriously. "I book four shows a 
month- I want every one to count. I want 
people to have their ass kicked, their lives 
changed." Ass kicking, however, doesn't necessarily translate into dancing. During one of 
BAR's concerts, the lead singer of Soviet, the 
main act for that night, remarked, "All across 
the country, this is the only place we've played 
where not a single person was dancing," at 
which point he rushed the floor and spun 
around in circles while stomping his feet up 
and down and clapping enthusiastically. The 
crowd just watched from their seats. 


During concerts Rick perches on a platform that looks like a tree house, hardly visible as he adjusts knobs and presses buttons. 
He is the sound guy and he likes it loud. As 
the synth pop of Soviet crescendoed and 
everyone in the room bounced in place, you 
could forget you were one of only 60 people 
in a room designed for dance parties in a 
pizza place in New Haven. You could feel like 
you were at a show. 


For many in the New Haven community, Connecticut is, as Rick puts it, "the gas 
station between New York and Boston." And 
although this reputation may not sound like 
much, promoters can use it to their advantage. Sometimes Rick can even get national 
touring acts to play at BAR on Sunday nights, 
because it's an off night when bands are on 
the road between gigs. Until New Haven creates its own identity for itself, it must be satisfied to feed off the vibrancy of New York 
and Boston. 


But then, an identity is precisely what 
Rick is trying to create: "New Haven will 
never be New York part two and I wouldn't 
want it to be. There are a million reasons why 
New Haven is slammin' and it just has to step 
it up. You look at how many things are going 
on in New York. Boston's got it. Providence 
has got it. And I've played those rooms. 
They're not all real fancy." 


The question remains, though, why 
choose to take on this battle in New Haven? 
"Because I know this town is amazing," says 
Rick. "I've traveled to all but five states in the 
United States numerous times. Florida, 
California, Texas, New Mexico. New Haven 
rocks!" 


Most national bands, not surprisingly, 
don't think of New Haven as a rocking 
town, making it incredibly difficult, if not 
downright impossible, to get them to come 
here. Rick knows this better than anyone. In 
his quest to make New Haven a musical 
hotbed, he has been repeatedly shot down. 
Getting bands to come to New Haven is hard 
enough, but getting them to come to 
BAR--one of the city's lesser known music 
venues-is particularly challenging. Most 
recently, Kristin Hersh and Alice Donut 
declined to play a show there. "A lot of it is 
just having the reputation," says Rick. "I have 
nothing right now." He relays a dialogue that 
by now is all too familiar-'"Where, what is 
it called again?' 'BAR' 'Okay, but what's the 
name of the place?' 'BAR."' Rick shakes his 
head. "I just have to remember to keep myself 
grounded."


**BAR Continued**
**Page number(s): 12**

The ways Rick could move BAR up the 
musical ladder are pretty straightforward. 
Booking an artist with a high profile record 
label is currency in this business. The more 
high profile labels that are represented at a 
venue, the easier it is to convince an agent 
that his band should play there too. Working 
with an agent from one firm gives a promoter an in with a different agent from the same 
firm. Agents, record labels, and name recognition are the medals of honor. "You know 
like the Kristin Hersh, Alice Donut thing was 
super 
over ambitious," 
Rick admits. 
"Especially Kristin Hersh-getting into it I 
knew her agent was going to say no. He said 
probably not and I pushed him. He said no 
and I asked him to compromise and tell me 
why. He told me why and I'm still pushing. 
Even my last email to him was like I know 
you can't do it, but let me know if something 
changes and please consider me next time 
around." 


As if his dream of putting New Haven 
on the map doesn't face enough obstacles, 
even locals are skeptical. "'Nothing ever happens in New Haven,"' Rick whines in imitation. "Students show up--'Nothing is going 
on in New Haven, I can't wait to go back 
home.' It's like you know what? This is my 
response to everybody who has that to say," 
he said dragging out the 'everybody.'"Fuck It. 
That's my response. Anybody who said there's 
nobody good playing rock, anybody who said 
there is nothing for me--that's bullshit. I'm 
positive I will have one of every kind of band 
play in that room at some point."

**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Flora Lichtman**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
It's clear that money is not what's driving 
either of these two hopeful revolutionaries. In 
addition to BAR, Rick works three jobs at the 
School of Architecture to support this "labor 
oflove." Steve is putting in 60, 70, and sometimes 
80 hour weeks at The Space, but he too 
also holds several other jobs to support him-
self and his wife. "I was never in it for the 
money; if I were I would have quit in 1992," 
Steve says. 


Perhaps the pay off is merely pushing this 
city to the cusp and watching what hap-
pens. Both promoters decided long ago that 
music is a force that can be controlled, 
manipulated, and used to power change. 
Steve may bring notoriety to this town by 
building a music community, currently a tiny 
but devoted group that takes a chance on 
local artists every week. "I've always wanted 
to see people get together for a positive thing. 
People rally against stuff all the time, but you 
never see people coming together for some-
thing or just to be with people." He has chan-
neled music to build a community, but ultimately 
it is relationships, not music, that hold 
it together. 


Rick has something else in mind. He sees 
music as a means of changing people. For 
Rick, the more lives changed, the more "slam-
min'" this town will be. "The first time Dead 
Meadow played at BAR a lot of people had 
never heard of them, it was probably the most 
crowded I've ever had that room. I'm positive 
it changed people's lives. Jaws were on the 
ground. Eyes were tearing and you know peo-
ple were just floored. People were just amazed 
that like these three skinny young dudes 
could just belt out this sonic wall. That is the 
juice into the vein," he said gripping his fore-
arm, "That is what I'm booking shows for." 


But sweeping revolution has yet to 
engulf New Haven. Rick and Steve have not 
overthrown the cultural pecking order of 
New England. And New Haven's music scene 
still cannot hold a candle to New York's. But 
the belief that music has the power to trans-
form lives might just be revolutionary enough 
to light the fire. 


Flora Lichtman, a junior in 
Davenport College, is Associate Editor for TNJ.


**Title: The Yale Strike and the Hispanic Community**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I
n the small kitchen attached to the com-
munity room of a massive apartment com-
plex, Jorge's wife stood stirring a big pot of 
boiling broth filled with pasulu, a combina-
cion, she explained, of vegetables, potatoes 
and chunks of tender meat, all rolled into 
ucca leaves and wrapped in paper tied with 
tring. "Don't worry, though" she said with a 
smile. "We mke the paper off." The ocher 
dishes were already laid out on rhe table: 
couscous, chicken, rice and beans, and, the 
fastest to disappear, a tender blend of pork 
and onions. 

Across the room, Jorge and Gilberto 
in continual revolutions around the 
table, Jorge still trying to explain to Eric 
his own special rules for calling rhe eight-ball; 
Luis and Alberto manned a small round table 
covered with dominoes; and outside, occa-
sionally tapping their cigarette ends into a 
plastic cup drained of its un-na, the others 
were talking, their words drifting off into the 
warm air of a Saturday night in Fair Haven. 

In houses across the city, there was much 
cause for celebration the weekend of 
September 20: After three and a half long 
weeks on strike, members of Yale locals 34 
and 35 would be back at work by Monday, 
flush with the triumph of a new contract that 
promised higher wages and better pensions. 

But no one in the crowd at 50 Grand Avenue 
was a union member. In fact, as of Monday 
morning, none of them would even be 
employed. 

The road that runs between this pre-
dominantly Hispanic immigrant neighbor-
hood and Yale is not an easy path to trod: 
Though Hispanics make up more than a fifth 
of the city's population, they hold only three 
percent of University jobs. And even those 
who do succeed in penetrating the ranks of 
Yale employees are ultimately shortchanged 
in the benefits they receive. Although the 
University offers some employees assistance 
through its much vaunted Homebuyer's 
Program, the program does not cover any 
houses bought in Fair Haven. Thus chances 
seemed pretty slim that any of the ten Puerto 
Rican, Mexican and Peruvian-Americans 
enjoying the party that day would ever bene-
fit from the unions' triumph. The absence of 
anyone at the gathering from the local 
unions, much less the University administra-
tion, did not improve matters. 

But the pasulu and stewed pork told a 
different story, and the people enjoying them-Jorge Rivera, Angie Aponte, Luis 
Loyola, 
Alberto 
Mendieta, 
Gilberto 
Cintrone, Luis Velazquez, Marta Ramos, 
Pablo Soto, Anibal Garcia, and Laura 
Hernandez-saw a different future at Yale. 

They knew firsthand what a place on the 
University's dining hall or custodial staff 
would look like. For several weeks, they had 
each held a temporary job through a sub-
contracting 
firm 
called 
Sanitation 
Management, cleaning residential colleges 
and dining halls at Yale in place of striking 
members of Local 35. These were highly cov-
eted positions, even though, as sub-contrac-
tors, the workers did not enjoy union pay or 
benefits, and they accepted the job knowing 
that when the strike ended, they would be 
forced to give it up. With this in mind, a 
week before their party, the ten workers 
made a surprising career move for people on 
their rung of the employment ladder: They 
went on strike. 

THis New Haven


**Title: Continued**
**Page number(s): 17**

Instead of mopping stairwells or cleaning 
bathrooms, the ten joined union members 
on the picket lines to protest the injustices 
of an employer for whom, technically, they 
had never worked. It seemed an unlikely way 
to get a foot in the door at Yale. But then, 
after years of fruitless efforts on the part of 
New Haven's Hispanic community to forge 
closer relations with the city's largest employ-
er, extreme measures seemed necessary. 

Weeks later, the most surprising part of 
the decision is not that ten people, most of 
whom had never met, banded together to 
walk away from a job with better wages than 
any of them had earned in months, or that 
they all left all in the hope of blazing a trail 
into the unions whose picket lines they had 
just been breaking. Rather, the most remark-
able twist in this story is that it just might 
have worked. 

To hear union leaders tell it, Yale has a 
deeply institutionalized bias against 
hiring Hispanic workers. Even the paltry 
three or four percent Hispanic workforce 
that the University boasts of employing 
includes, according to one union member, 
"every half-Spanish professor or part-timer 
they could find." 

So for the last two years, the unions, 
through their political arm, The Connecticut 
Center for a New Economy, have lobbied as 
part of the "Social Contract with Yale" cam-
paign to extend employment to more 
Hispanic workers. Leading the effort is Dan 
Smolderon, whose fresh face and brightly 
colored yarmulke are a frequent sight at 
churches and community meetings through-
out Fair Haven. When Smolder first began 
organizing in Fair Haven two years ago, he 
was shocked to find that in a city where one 
in four workers is employed by the 
University, almost none came from the 
Hispanic community. Things have come a 
long way since then. This summer, for exam-
ple, a group of Hispanic clergymen whom 
Smolder had organized met with Yale 
President Rick Levin to discuss hiring and 
promotional opportunities for Hispanic 
workers. The results of these efforts are diffi-
cult to tabulate. According to the Office of 
New Haven and State Affairs, the number of 
Hispanic employees at the University has 
increased 39 percent in the last five years, 
while the total workforce has grown by only 
9 percent. Five of eight trainees in the current 
class at the New Haven Residents' Training 
Program are Hispanic. Some anecdotal evi-
dence suggests that this hiring binge might 
have been concentrated within the last six 
months, as a mounting press campaign left 
the University scrambling to mask its historic 
paucity of Hispanic workers. 

Still, to most observers, efforts to inte-
grate the workforce have remained the same 
for decades, as evidenced by the workforce's 
racial stratification. Black workers clean the 
floors, white managers oversee them, and 
Hispanic faces are nowhere to be found. 

All of that changed, though, on August 
27, when Yale's unions began their ninth 
labor action in 35 years. Soon afterwards, 
busloads of predominantly Puerto Rican and 
Mexican 
workers 
began 
arriving 
in 
unmarked vans each day to take up the 
mops and trash bags the strikers had left 
behind. The sub-contractors offered Yale an 
unmistakable advantage: They accepted 
lower wages, no benefits, and no guarantee 
as to the duration of their employment. 

Union leaders, of course, were out-
raged. To them, it was obvious that Yale was 
taking advantage of the Hispanic workers 
not only because they were immigrants, a 
historically vulnerable group, but also 
because they were not a group traditionally 
employed at Yale and thus not likely to iden-
tify with the strikers. Some of the union 
workers, it turned out, did not identify with 
the sub-contracted workers either. One 
evening during the strike, for example, stu-
dents reported hearing striking union mem-
bers shouting, "Go back to Mexico!" as the 
sub-contracted workers stepped off the 
bus. 

At a press conference during the second 
week of the strike, the unions convened 40 
Hispanic and African-American clergy and 
representatives of the National Hispanic 
Caucus to denounce the University's alleged 
effort to exploit racial tensions. One clergy-
man told the New Haven Register that the 
Hispanic strike-breakers were, "by igno-
rance, being given scraps." 

Yale officials begged to differ. They 
insisted that the University was only trying 
to fulfill its educational mission, without


**Title: Yale's Historic Landmark**
**Author: Paige Austin**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
any reference to the racial composition of its 
sub-contractor's employees. 

This press blitz, though, may have 
helped pave the way for change. By the time 
the srrike was resolved two weeks later, nego-
tiations had yielded a surprising benefit: The 
creation of a new community training com-
mission whose aim, according to one union 
organizer, is "desegregating the workforce." 
Irs members would be drawn in equal parts 
from the unions, the University, and the com-
munity. Then, last Friday, the University 
passed yet another historic landmark, orga-
was discouraged by the complexity of the hir-
ing process. Besides, with so few Hispanic 
workers on board already, the possibility of 
working at Yale seemed remote. Now, he says, 
recalling the three or four percent figure that 
helped convince him ro support the unions, 
"I'll be happy if we see that number go up--
if we get 10 or 15 percent. I don't know what 
the ten of us will do to that [number] but 
we'll see." 

Two of the h~/gistas, Pablo Sato and 
Anibal Garcia, were actually fired by their 
Yale supervisor before they decided to join 
staked out the sub-contractors while they 
waited for their bus home from High Street 
Gate. He tried to convince the skeptical 
workers that the generous wages they were 
receiving wouldn't last long, and that the 
University was using them as pawns in its 
twisted race game. The workers kept their dis-
tance. When the bus pulled up, they boarded 
quickly and asked Smokier not to follow 
them. 

nizing a meeting with a com-
bined group of 26 representa-
tives from over half a dozen 
social services agencies in the 
Hispanic 
community. 

The 
group discussed the mechanics 
of University hiring and what 
prospective workers could do to 
better their chances of landing a 
job. 

While the press may have 
gorren things rolling, Smokier 
But the next day the union organizers 
changed tactics. Instead of waiting for the 
workers' bus ro arrive at Yale, they drove to a 
West Haven parking lor 
where rhcy attempted to 
board the bus. Sanitation 
"It's not obvious to the 
workers why they should 
support the people in the 
unions ... Why should the 
people working inside care?" 
managers responded by call-
ing the police. Refusing to 
be deterred, Smokier and 
Francesci tailed the bus in 
their cars and followed it to 
an abandoned lot in Fair 
Haven. T hey looked on as 
workers were transferred 
into unmarked Yale vans 
and others believe it was the ln«lgistas who 
were responsible for these latest triumphs. As 
part of the union's attempt to encourage 
workers co walk off the job, they promised-
by way of Smokier and the other activists who 
made contact with individual temp work-
ers-co help the ln«/gistas secure permanent 
positions when the strike ended. If successfUl, 
it would be an unprecedented breaking of the 
barriers, said union organizer Mark Wilson, 
the man responsible for fielding phone calls 
from the hu~/gistas and for finding them work 
as casuals. "In the past, H ispanic workers 
have always come in one or two at a time 
every five or ten years. So we're on the brink 
of something very important here: We have 
between seven and thirteen workers who are 
all going to start," said Wilson. "To be part of 
Yale opening its doors co more Latino and 
Hispanic workers is an awesome thing. And 
we'll look back years from now and remember 
this as a historic event." 

Jorge Rivera, one of the group's ringlead-
ers, along with Gilberto Cintrone, always 
thought the walk-ours had broader signifi-
cance. He walked out, he recalled later, "For 
all the Latinos who've been passed over, 
who've been stepped on." He had considered 
applying to work at Yale several years ago, but 


the strike. According to Sato and Garcia, their 
supervisor approached them during a break 
and let loose a barrage of personal and racial 
insults before firing them on the spot. The 
incident left them little reason not to come 
on board with Rivera and Cintrone. 

Yet weeks later, the memory of the man-
ager's racist slurs still stung. "You can tell in 
the way they treat you," he said, sitting in the 
living room of his first-floor apartment in the 
Hill neighborhood. "They're one way with 
gringos, then with Spanish people they 
change." Anibal's experience during his rwo 
years in New Haven has had a similarly dis-
couraging effect. If things don't pan out with 
work at Yale in the next month, he is consid-
ering returning to Puerto Rico. 

For the sub-contractors assigned else-
where, though, the decisiof! to strike carne 
less easily. The first day that Smokier and a 
well-known union activist in the Hispanic 
community, Norma Francesci as well as sever-
al Hispanic clergy met the arriving workers at 
the High Street Gate, a few of the furure ln«/-
gistas were more annoyed than inspired. 

Happy to have been chosen for one of 
Sanitation Management's 60 jobs from an 
applicant pool of over 180, they preferred to 
be left alone. That afternoon, Smokier again 
which would carry them past strikers and 
safely to the campus. 

When the workers finally arrived that 
morning, they were more than an hour late. 
Later that day, taking a break from work in 
Davenport, Angie Aponte, Luis Loyola, and 
Martha Rames enjoyed a good laugh at the 
organizers' expense. Who did they think they 
were, interfering with people who were just 
trying to make a living? 


But what really bothered the three of 
them was the N~w Havm &gistn- arti-
cle describing the union leaders' press 
conference the day before, at which union 
representatives had denounced the University 
for playing the race card. 

Loyola, who at 24 is more than five years 
older than both Ramos and Aponte, was 
indignant: "See why arc they making this a 
race thing? That offends me." 

Ramos seized on the quote from one of 
the pastors who said that the workers were 
acting "by ignorance." 

"Are they saying we're ignorant?" she 
asked indignandy. "We're not the ones chas-
ing the union people in our cars. Who's the 
ignorant one?" Aponte and Loyola laughed in 
agreement. 


But less than two days later, all three of the former Davenport cus-
todial workers were on the Green, accepting hugs and congratulations 
from union members and activists who said their decision not to go to 
work that day had been a watershed in race relations at Yale. Aponte 
and Ramos had both brought their babies, and in the warmth of a 
sunny Friday morning. their news created an especially celebratory 
atmosphere: Black union members took up chants of solidarity in 
Spanish, and everyone professed their firm intention never to be divid-
ed by race again. 

When the television cameras began rolling. Aponte took the 
microphone and spoke on behalf of the huelgistas. They were tired of 
being abused as Yale's pawns, she said: "We want to be treated like other 
people." 

The next week, afrer the press con-
ference, some of the once reluctant hu~l­
gistas even helped try to convince other 
Sanitation workers to walk out. Most 
were too afraid to talk to them, but the 
huelgistas knew flfSthand that even the 
most seemingly deaf ears can be open to 
new ideas. 

As Rivera recalled afrer the strike: 
"When people talk, you listen. At the 
beginning they said they were going to 
get us this and it sounded sketchy. You 
don't want to jump into something you 
don't know." For him, the leap of faith 
had been largely personal. ''I've known 
Norma {Francesci] from around the 
neighborhood for a long time; she was-
n't going to try to play us around." 

Los mormos is a term used among the characteristically blunt 
Hispanic community to refer to union members. It means, more or 
less, the "black people." For Alberto Mendieta, another huelgista, the 
significance of the union's racial compostion is unavoidable. "There are 
black and white people on the inside," he explained with a shrug. "and 
they want to help bring in their people." 

0 
f course, neither of Yale's unions is entirely devoid of Hispanics. 
Hispanic members of Local 35 have been doing their job more 
or less unconcerned by the race issue for years. The obstacles to 
Hispanic employment, rather, seem to crop up earlier in the process. 
According to Ramirez, Yale is too stringent about demanding English-
language fluency and verifying the authenticity of immigtation papers, 
two tendencies that bespeak more racial bias than 
they do quality control. "Why do they do that?" he 
asked quizzically. "You don't need to speak English 
to sweep." 

In fact, the employment test required for appli-
cants seeking a position in Yale's custodial or dining 
hall workforce requires only a basic level of English 
profeciency. Although it features mainly basic arith-
metic questions, its instructions are in English. A 
score of 70 percent is required to pass. Mike 
Morand, Associate Vice President ofYale's Office of 
New Haven and State AffiUrs, points out that the 
University's minimum threshold of language compe-
tency is no higher than that held by the city or most 
other universities and companies across the nation. 
It is certainly higher, however, than the StAtnda.rds 
held by Sanitation Management, Inc., among whose 
Yale-based workers were dozens who spoke no 
English at all. Hispanic workers already in the door 
at Yale offer a mixed assessment of their employers' 
track record on race. Though he has never felt tar-
geted by racial prejudice, Dolores Cadilla, a Puerto 
Rican immigrant who has been working at Yale since 
1958, knows many from the Hispanic community 
who have sought work at Yale but to whom, he says, 
~~~~ 
Yale has not had the courtesy to respond. Ca.dilla 
But the unions' low number of 
Hispanic members meant that there 
weren't many neighborhood people 
huelgistas could turn to for advice con-
cerning the walkout. Instead, the hu~l­
gistas made new friends with other 
union members on the picket line. 

Ramos and Aponte continued to bring 
their kids most mornings, and everyone 
enjoyed the complimentary coffee and 
breakfast food set out for all the strikers 
Jorge Rivera and his wife join 
believes access for Hispanics is h.ampered by a lack of 
strikers on the picket line. 
Spanish-language recruitment and advertising. 
in the basement of First and Summerfield Church. 

Afrer the walkout, union organizers kept an eye on the group, 
meeting with them each morning beneath the strike tent or outside the 
union office on Chapel Street. They repeated their promise that when 
the strike was over, the huelgistas would be well positioned to get per-
manent jobs at Yale. Nery Ramirez, an immigrant from Guatemala and 
a Boston-based organizer understood the difficulty in getting Hispanic 
workers to leave a well-paying job in support of predominandy black 
union members: •It's not obvious to the workers why they should sup-
port the people in the unions. Wal.king out would help los 71UJ1'mOS get 
a contract faster but why should the people working inside care?• 


Another Puerto Rican member of Local 35 who has 
worked at Yale since 1964 agrees. He estimates that he knows ZOO pec>-
ple in the Hispanic community who would love to work at Yale, but 
who either don't know how to apply, or when they do drop off an appli-
cation at the Human Resources (HR) office, hit a stone wall. They are 
simply never called back. 

L
ast week's ~storic meeting between_ Yale ~d His. panic ~resenta­
tives was mtended to address precisely this lack of clarity about 
Yale's hiring practices. University officials say that opening com-
munication channels and improving job access for Hispanics has been 
a goal since long before this fall's strike. The biggest hindrance to bring-
ing in more Hispanic workers, Morand explained, is simply the lack of 
job turnove.r in Yale's unions. The average tenure of a Local 35 worker, 
for instance, is about 15 years, and the union only has 1100-odd mem-
bers. 

According to Smokler, though, combined job openings for Locals 
34 and 35 are still around 800 per year. But like all jobs at Yale, these 
positions are in high demand. The University's Human Resources 
Office estimates that it receives 100 resumes per day for positions across 
the university. Morand adds that in the past when the HR office has 
done "open resting" for union positions, the line could have stretched 
past his offic~almost a half-mile from HR. Instead, the horde of over 
1,000 applicants snaked around the HR building. 

The discrepancy between worker supply and university demand 
makes securing a job here difficult for anyone--white, black, or 
Hispanic. And according to the 2000 census, although Hispanics make 
up a quarter of the city, they are only 13 percent of its high school grad-
uates. Bur, as Morand points our, that hasn't stopped rhe staff at 
Human Resources from doing the same presentations on Yale employ-
ment opportunities in Fair Haven as it does at public libraries around 
the city. 

Recently, members of the Hispanic community have noticed a 
spike in the number of Spanish-language advertisements routing Yale'y 
commitment to diversity and bumas relaciones with the Hispanic com; 
munity. One full-page ad that appeared on page two of La \.0z Hispana 
last week read, "Yale University is dedicated to having diversity in its 
employee community and to looking for qualified candidates from the 
community for regular employment." The advertisement, though, did 
not specify whether Yale was currently hiring and only referred readers 
to HR's website for more information. On an afrernoon last week, when 
La \.0z was distributed free of charge in a Fair Haven deli, none of the 
customers thought the ad was sufficient. 

Deli owner and activist Francesci put the question to several of her 
customers from behind the counter of her Main Street shop: "Have you 
ever seen an advertisement in a Spanish-language newspaper or any-
where dse for hiring at Yale?" The chorus of responses was in agree-
ment~ Not one. On her own, Francesci has assured her friends among 
the huelgistas that they will be taken care of and placed as casuals with-
in the next few weeks, the first step to procuring a union job perma-
nently. But then again, she sees little in the history of interaction 
between Yale and the Hispanic community to give her complete confi-
dence. The huelgistaswill have ro wait and see. 

A
fter the dishes were cleared at the Grand Avenue parry, Cintrone 
announced that he wasn't going to do his waiting quietly. The 
day before, the group had received the home phone number of 
Local 35 manager Mark Sullivan with instructions to call him on 
Monday about job placement. By Saturday afternoon, though, 
Cintrone had already called Sullivan once, and he knew what time on 
Monday be was going to call again. He told the others to do the same. 
·rm calling that guy everyday. I'll call him a hundred times a day 
if I have to, everyday for a month, until pretty soon he's going to get 
sick of me calling and be's going to give me a job," he said confidently. 

Seated on the patio outside with a cigarette in his hand, Aponte said 
OcroeER 2003 
that was her plan as well. She promised to pass along whatever infor-
mation she got co Loyola and the others who didn't speak English . 

Though Mark seemed eager to help, he does not know Spanish. 

I 
f Rivera's dream of a stronger Hispanic workforce at Yale pans out, 
rhe lack of Spanish-speakers in union management shouldn't last 
long. As it is, when Loyola stopped by the office one day last week to 
speak with Sullivan about the status of the h~lgi.stas' forthcoming 
employment, Smokler had to translate. Still, his advice to Loyola was 
promising: Give it another two to three weeks, Sullivan said, and you 
should all be taken care of. 

In the meantime, the huelgi.stas have become a tight-knit bunch, 
often congregating at one another's homes or meeting ar the union 
office to check in with Sullivan. Rivera is eager to throw another get-
together like the one che day after the strike ended, when his wife 
cooked past~ks. But for now his plans are on hold, as the couple awaits 
the birth of their second child, a girl due in mid-Oetober. Besides, the 
real cause to celebrate will only come once the whole group has steady 
jobs at Yale, and then again when they have accumulated 380 hours and 
can graduate from casual status ro full-fledged union membership, with 
benefits and a fixed schedule. 

Smokier is confident they will receive a warm reception. Members 
of both Locals 34 and 35, he says, understand their struggle wich Yale: 
"They know that if rhey don't grow and expand they can't win." 

For Yale's parr, the necessity to welcome Hispanic workers into the 
fold certainly appears ro have become more pressing. But according to 
Morand, the only change of late is that the University has more time 
for city outreach now that months of tense labor negotiations are at last 
ar an end. Bur fundamentally, he says, che University has nor changed 
its course. 

Not surprisingly, the reading from the union office is a bit differ-
em. Wilson, rhe hu~lgistas' point person, sees the University's new 
acceptance of diversity as a capitulation: "The cry for assistance from 
the Hispanic community has finally gotten loud enough char Yale has 
to listen." 

To the huelgistas, though, the motive for change hardly matters. 
Standing outside the union office after a meeting with Sullivan two 
weeks after che strike, Aponte, Velazquez and Rivera conferred. 
"He says a couple weeks," Rivera reported. 

Aponte replied with a touch of regret, "But we won't all be togetb-
er. .. 

"I don't care; I told him any shift, anytime, graveyard, whatever," 
said Rivera. "Even part-time. Any job here and I'll be set." Many of his 
frieAds in Fair Haven are sure to agree. 

liD 



**The Last Game in New Haven**
**Author: April Rabkin**
**Page number(s): 24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Heading into the bottom of the sixth inning on the evening of 
September 10, the New Haven Ravens trailed the Akron Aeros 
by a score of 9-0. The emerging story line seemed all too famil-
iar: Things forever getting drearier. This was the second game of the 
Double-A Eastern League Championship Series, the last baseball game 
the Ravens would ever play in New Haven. In January, a group of 
Massachusetts businessmen purchased the Ravens, a minor league 
afftliate of the Toronto Blue Jays, and announced that they would 
move the franchise to Manchester, NH, at the end of the year. 

Attendance, which had been dwindling since 1995, plummeted to 
record lows. To cut costs, the team cancelled its radio broadcasts for 
the season, opting to broadcast games only via the internet. A month 
into the season, however, they cut the internet broadcasts as well. With 
almost mocking irony, the Ravens went on to clinch its first division 
title in its 10-year history, and General Manager Adam Schierholz con-
vinced rwo local businesses to sponsor the team's postseason, making 
all playoff tickets free to the public. The parting gift appeared to be a 
fmal act of kindness for Ravens' fans-or at least a fool-
proof way to fill the seats. But as Schierholz sur-
veyed the crowd at Yale Field that night, his 
team weU on its way to dropping its second 
game of the championship, it appeared that 
his generous promotion had failed. Only 5,235 
fans had attended the game, and, by the mid-
dle of the sixth inning. a third had already 
left, believing they'd finally gotten their 
money's worth. 

I was among those who stayed. Growing up, I had always rooted 
against the Ravens, a team founded in 1993 as part of the farm system 
for the Colorado Rockies, a Major League expansion dub. The same 
year, a new Eastern League team moved into my hometown of 
Portland, ME-The Sea Dogs, the Double-A affiliate of the Florida 
Marlins. So I grew up a Sea Dogs fan, and always hated seeing the 
Ravens come to town, because, most of the time, they beat my beloved 
home team. Those dastardly Ravens and their winning ways became 
an inside joke among my friends. But although I had always prayed for 
the Ravens to fail on the field, I never wished them ill will as a fran-
chise. Partly co pay my last respects to a worthy enemy, partly out a 
love of the game, and partly out of my nagging curiosity, I went to Yale 
Field that night to see how a baseball team died, and to see how the 
community, notorious for its indifference, would react. 

Schierholz stood in the press box, watching disaster unfold on the 
field, his eyes panning empty rows of grandstand seats. "We're disap-
pointed," he told me quietly. "We're giving away free rickets and still 
the stadium's only half fUll." Half-full stadiums-or worse--were the 
norm this year for the Ravens. The team drew only 140,000 fans the 
entire season, while the New Britain Rock Cats, a rival Eastern League 
team in Connecticut, broke its own single-season attendance record 
for the fourth consecutive year, topping 268,000. There were a million 
reasons why the Ravens were a diseased franchise in New Haven, 
Schierholz said. The most common excuses floating around the stadi-
um and the sports pages were that Yale Field was an outdated facility; 
the tearn"·tacked significant political or corporate support from the 
town; New York and Boston were more attractive venues to see base-
ball; the team lacked a coherent identity, bearing New Haven's name 
but playing on a West Haven field owned by Yale. Secretly, I wondered 
if perhaps New Haven thought itself too sophisticated to support a 
working man's game. But whatever the root cause, an overwhelming 
apathy had settled around the Ravens. I asked Schierholz If he had tried 
to keep the team in New Haven, since he would lose his job when the 
Ravens headed north. He replied without a trace of discernible sadness: 
"No attempts." Schierholz seemed impatient for the end, ready per-
haps to forget his personal responsibility for a team that was now down 
by nine runs. It seemed to me that the team had long been dead to 
New Haven. The words, "Thank you fans, 1994-2003," chalked into 
foul territory along the base paths looked 
particularly morbid. 

But at that moment, the flounder-
ing black birds rallied their strength for 
one final Sap toward victory. The Ravens 
picked up rwo runs in the bottom of the 
sixth and five more in an exhilarating bot-
tom of the eighth, bringing the score to 9-7, and the 
paltry crowd finally came alive. When the Ravens 
·brought the potential eying run to the plate in the bottom 
of the ninth with rwo outs, the fans reached a rare state of euphoria. 
One man removed his shoe and started "whapping it against the alu-
minum benches, while others shouted, stomped, and chanted. Some 
even prayed. The crowd's desire for the Ravens to end on a soaring, 
improbable high note was almost tangible. But on a 2-2 pitch, in front 
of a crowd on its feet, mighty Tyrell Goodwin struck out. 

Yet instead of dejected fans shuffiing from the stadium, an unex-
pected celebration ensued. Schierholz and the Ravens staff invited 
everyone down to the field for "one final fun run" around the bases, an 
activity usually reserved fo_r kids after home games. But that night 
everyone funneled onto the field, as if unconsciously filling die void 
left by that last strikeout. A strange infectious force began to rise out of 
the fans as they approached the infield. Everyone circled the bases, 
some jogging, some walking. some scoring the winning run in the sev-
enth game of their imaginary World Series. Schierholz stood a few feer 
up the third base line, slapping high fives to fans that used to root for 
a baseball team here. A few people required more· than a high five, 
embracing Schierholz with tear-streaked cheeks. One woman larehed 
on for a long hug, confiding. "My husband's heart is being ripped out." 
Then people spread into the outfield and foul territory, searching for 
the perfect spot to internalize the moment and contribute in a person-


**Clean Elections in New Haven**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

In the 2001 New Haven mayoral primaries, incumbent John 
DeStefano, Jr., and Connecticut State Senator Martin Looney 
competed for the Democratic Party nomination like two siblings 
in a Monopoly game. Having served four consecutive terms as mayor, 
DeStefano already owned all the prime real estate and was raking in 
rental fees with every role of the dice. Checks made out to "DeStefano 
for Mayor" poured in from school administrators, police unions, city 
employees, and local contractors--a testament to DeStefano's well-
oiled fundraising machine. In the primaries alone, he managed to raise 
over $550,000 in contributions. Without DeStefano's incumbent edge, 
Looney was sitting on a considerably lighter campaign coffer, but still 
had enough political clout to give 
DeStefano a run for his money. A 
New Haven native, Looney had 
represented the Elm City in the 
Connecticut General Assembly 
from 1980-1992 before going on to 
become a five-term state senator. 
In his most recent senatorial cam-
paign, he had spent over $40,000. 
For the mayoral primary, he raised 
· five times that amount. 

Besides putting a handsome 
feather in his cap, instituting 
clean elections could prove 
immeasurably useful for some-
one with larger aspirations. 

all-out war: Fundraising on both sides surged to levels never before 
seen in any city in Connecticut. By September ll, the day New York's 
financial center collapsed, the New Haven mayoral primary had 
amassed more than $800,000 in campaign contributions. After 
DeStefano beat Looney by a margin of 24 percent, new partisan oppo-
nents brought even more money to the race. One month after the 
Democratic primary, the candidates' total campaign contributions 
amounted to more than $1,000,000-making this by far the most 
apensive election in New Haven's history. In a city where registered 
Democrats outnumber Republicans 13 to 1, no one was panicularly 
surprised when DeStefano won. It was his spending that was so 
unnerving. Even more shocking 
was the fact that only 18 percent, 
or 27 of DeStefano's 149 contrib-
utors, lived within the New 
Haven city limits. Rumors of 
unfairness began to circulate. 

It was in this contat, in the 
days following his inauguration, 
that DeStefano suddenly changed 
course. Claiming that he was fed 
up with raising money, he adopt-
ed the platform of his former 
opponent Looney: Campaign finance reform. If he succeeds, within a 
year New Haven may become the first city in Connecticut, and the 
founeenth in the country, to publicly finance municipal elections. A 
group comprised of the Mayor and a handful of aldermen is currendy 
pushing to bring into law a "Clean Elections Bill." The hope is that the 
bill will prevent the acessive spending that characterized the 2001 elec-
tion from happening again and encourage those without adequate 
resources or political clout to participate in what has traditionally been 
a closed political process. In other words, this is a bill that could revo-
lutionize New Haven politics. 


With stakes this high, and 
with money in hand, what began as friendly compennon soon 
devolved into nasty squabbling. When Looney staged a fundraiser at 
the home of former State Democratic Chairman Edward Marcus, 
DeStefano lost no time pointing out that Marcus' law firm represent-
ed a housing development corporation under investigation by the FBI 
for misallocation of federal funds. In retaliation, Looney attacked 
DeStefano for his own campaign tactics. Calling for campaign finance 
reform, he accused DeStef.uto of squeezing contributions from people 
through intimidation. He alluded to one particular fundraising invita-
tion DeStefano had sent out to city employees and contractors, 
denouncing its language as "coercive." In addition, Looney claimed 
that DeStefano's citywide network of supponers sent the message that 
"the city is for sale and continues to be for sale." DeStef.uto quickly 
reacted by emphatically pointing out how he had rejected $1.750 from 
Sal Brancati, a former director of New Haven's Office of Business 
Development who had been accused of accepting $65,500 in bribes 
from the owner of a financial planning firm in achange for sending 
him business. 

Ultimately, neither candidate was actually able to find anything 
illegal about the other's fundraising strategies in this high stakes game. 
Emotions nevertheless ran high and the campaign morphed into an


o realize his vision of "clean elections," DeStefano appointed 
his aecutive assistant Julio Gonzalez, cc '99 to draft a bill and 
amass the necessary suppon to get it passed. In his Yale days, 
Gonzalez had served as New Haven's Ward 1 alderman. After gradua-
tion, he joined forces with DeStefano, working as his campaign man-
ager in 2001 and as his primary political advisor after the election. 
Throughout the campaign Gonzalez's press-saviness had distinguished 
him from the other advisors. When reponers confronted· DeStefano 
about contentious issues, more often than not the mayor passed the 
questions to Gonzalez. According to Gonzalez, the mayor took up the 
clean elections cause at least pardy in response to concerns expressed by 
alderman Vincent Mauro about his fundraising methods in the fall 
2001 campaign. "The mayor felt strongly that we needed to change the 
system," Gonzalez said. "We started asking, what is a meaningful 
reform that will solve these problems and allow free speech?" 

Gonzalez enlisted the aid of Ward 29 Alderman Carl Goldfield, 
another one of DeStefano's political advisors, to help draft the Clean 
Elections Bill. Together, they assembled a diverse wk force of civic-
minded citizens, including Joe Jolly, a Fair Haven resident and employ-
ee of the Peabody Museum; Elizabeth Adonizio, a Yale political science 
graduate student and member of the League of Women Voters, and 
Ray Weber and Lee Cruz, both of the New Haven Environmental 
Justice Nerwork. In the ensuing months, the team devised a bill that 
outlined the establishment of what they called the "New Haven 
Democracy Fund." The city's annual budget would allocate at least 
$100,000 to the fund, costing taxpayers roughly 80 cents per yea~, 
making it one of the smallest line items in the New Haven budget. 

The process would be fairly straightforward: Candidates seeking 
public funding would first be required to raise 200 donations of 
between $25 and $300 each, at which point they would qualify for a 
$15,000 block grant. They would then receive funds matching those 
they had already raised rwo to one, up to $200,000. Every additional 
dollar they raised would be matched up to $200,000. If a privately 
funded candidate's spending exceeded $200,000, publicly funded can-
didates would have the choice of either receiving an additional $25,000 
grant from the Democracy Fund or raising funds independently. 

Despite the apparent temptation for candidates with political 
clout and independent resources to bypass public fmancing, other 
cities with similar systems have shown that even well-connected candi-
dates usually find it in their best interest to take advantage of public 
funds. In addition to saving a candidate money, public financing gives 
the appearance of democratic fair play. Because the u.s. Consitution 
protects campaign contributions as free speech, there will always be 
individuals like New York mayor Michael Bloomberg, who can afford 
both to outspend public funds and to suffer the bad publicity that goes 
along with it. But at least at the local level, the Bloombergs are more 
often the exception than the rule. 

Gonzalez admits that the Clean Elections Bill will be difficult lo 
implement. The major obstacle to public fmancing is that political 
incumbents are often reluctant to advocate a system that would under-
mine their existing nerwork of financial supporters. Out of $53,379 that 
DeStefano raised during the third quarter of 2003, at least $26,985 
carne from executives at contracting firms, including companies work-
ing on the city's $1.5 billion construction program. School developers, 
Long Wharf Mall consultants, and demolishers paid thousands of dol-
lars for a piece of the mayoral pie. Gonzalez and the wk force are nev-
ertheless pushing the idea publicly. According to Gonzalez. "[We are] 
organizing public hearings and neighborhood meetings with the hope 
of convincing people that clean elections are good for everyone." 

ohn DeStefano's motivation to undetake a project like the 
Clean Elections Bill is, to say the least, unclear. It is hard to 
believe that DeStefano would bite the hands that have funded 
him for so long. But besides putting a handsome feather in his cap, 
instituting clean elections as the five-term mayor of a small city could 
prove immeasurably useful for someone with larger aspirations. 

Whatever DeStefano's ultimate agenda, the bill faces a more 
immediate obstacle: The state has effectively vetoed it. Once 
DeStefano's team fmished drafting the bill in late 2002, they petitioned 
the Connecticut legislature for "enabling legislation," without which 
the bill would be vulnerable to lawsuits challenging its constitutional-
ity. Withour pull at the state level, the odds of passing enabling legis~ 
lation were formidable. But the bill faced more than mere lack of 
influence. After losing the 2001 primaries, Martin Looney had 
returned ro his post as State senator in Hartford and become House 
Majority Leader. Formerly a firm supporter of public finance reform, 
Looney did not openly oppose DeStefano's bill, but when the request 
for enabling legislation came before the Senate, he did not lift a finger 
to support it. In January 2003, the bill was referred to the Joint 
Committee on Government Administration and Elections, where it 
may remain indefinitely. 

DeStefano is in his fifth two-year term and campaigning for a 
sixth. After stay-ing in the saddle during some of New Haven's rockiest 
rimes, he may be confident that he can stay there as long as he wants. 
But according to Gonzales, "He's closer to the end than the beginning. 
So clean elections will affect the transition between DeStefano and the 
next mayor. The reason we engage it is because we like having the 
fights, we like the competition," claims Gonzalez. "We want to have a 
system that is healthy and works well." A more skeptical analysis of his 
motives would cast DeStefano as a successful self-promoter. If he is 
aimiilg for higher office, having enacted the first Clean Elections sys-
tem in Connecticut would be an invaluable asset. 

April Rabkin is a sn~ior in Davmport Colkge. 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Tom Iskr**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
al way to the touching display of human affection. The surreal cere-
mony was a necessary affirmation that the team had existed and mean-
ingful memories hacf been formed here. I had been wrong to assun;te 
that no one cared deeply about this team. 

One elderly man with a wild beard, dressed in a Ravens' uniform 
and clutching a large bag filled with last-minute Ravens souvenirs, 
caught my eye as he approached the pit'c!ter's mound. He iULu"uu~I 
awaited his turn, and when it arrived, mounted the rubber 
in for the sign. He rocked back into his windup, 
motion. A flashbulb popped, and he released an · 
triumphantly: A perfect strike. He stepped 
peaied into the kaleidoscope of festivity. Later 
faced, one of the last fans to leave the park. 
I approached Schierbolz, who, for the moment, 
the third base line, visibly moved by the ceremony. 
the effort made this year," Schierholz finally said of his 
on his sunglasses--presumably to cover his ey~ rather 
them from the full moon. "It makes you feel good. It would 
easy to pack it in this year." 

After the last fans had made their peace and headed 
the night, the Ravens staff gathered on the mound for 
Schierbolz's celJ phone rang. He separated himself from the. ..._.._,.... 
wiped his cheek, raised the phone to his ear, .and quietly disappeared 
into the home dugout. 

T
wo nights later, th 
the Ravens to 
new manlljgernertt 
erasing alJ evidence that 
weekend, the staff held 
Ravens had owned that 
owned the shell of the 
was the insides of the Ra 
block. 

I pulled up to Yale Fieldi!ntmd 
front of a smalJ sign that rea.dl~ese:rvc:d 
the night before, so alJ the 
course. There were cash 
sion stand equipment, 
penders, oversized checks 
ities, dirty uniforms, hats and 
I browsed through the souvenir shop and ultimately purchased a 
squishy baseball with the Ravens logo on it for one dollar. The cashier 
said I could take two balJs for the price of one, but I had little use for 
the one already in my hand. 

• 
· 
This miscellaneous pile of junk seemed a lot like the list of teams 
that have played in New Haven. The Nutmegs of the Atlantic 
Association were the first i~ 1889. Then came the Texas Steers, the 
OCTOBER 2003 
there were the West Haven 
the Ravens. They had alJ 
ient way for the people 
junk. I thought back 
the items as that old 
of Ravens' history-a 
announcer used 
of that final Ravens 
needed any help. His 
Manager of the Manchester 
to do with alJ of the stuff that did-
actttlliM~>lirs. "We'll put it right in front of the stadium 
-..who comes by," be said, welcoming looters. "At any 
be closer to the dumpster that will come tomorrow morning." 
paused and surveyed the remnants of the Ravens' past. "There are 
ten years of neglect in this faciliry. We're just trying to make it a little 
, 
added afrer a moment's pause, loosen-
is another man's treasure. Yesterday, there 
the week in big turquoise letters. People 
away with a sign that said 'THURS' 
is that guy going to do with that?'" I asked if 
Jdill~~~~!flf interest in the jumbo checks. "Some," he said. "I 
I did know why, but before I could explain to 
us for a price check on an aU-purpose plastic 
gave the cah an indifferent once-over. "Five ... 
Tom Iskr is a smior in Branford 01/kg~.
25


**Title: Casting Tolstoy**
**Author: Nilo Cruz**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

A long time ago, when the city was new 
:.J""'\!"d hemmed in by swamp, the voices 
of authors dead but still revered arose 
in the cigar factories of Ybor City, Florida. 

The stories usually came in the afternoon, as 
the sun fell through the windows. By that 
time, most of the 
cigar rollers would 
have already finished 
five hundred or so 
cigars and the f.lcto-
ries, then empty of 
machines, would be 
quiet, save for the 
sounds of the stories. 

The cigar 
rollers, 
some of them illiter-
ate, 
all of them 
skilled 
and 
classics in the afternoon, ,as fmgers silently 
spun cobacco and minds wandered out from 
the walls of the warehouse into elastic worlds 
defined by stories. 

It is in this city of cockfights and shaded 
parks, where the clouds look as though they 
many 
newly-emigrated 
from Cuba, would sit 
roll 
to 
the 
rhythm 
of 
Shakespeare's 
son-
nets, 
Cervantes's 
poetry, 
Leo 
Tolstoy's prose, as the 
words read aloud 
changed the reality in 
their hands. 

11-MW~/v 
have "soaked up the 
whole 
sea," 
that 
Nilo Cruz sets his 
Pulitzer-Prize win-
ning play, Anna in 
tht Tropics. 

Next 
month, this city of 
cigars will be recon-
structed in a New 
York theatre, and 
actors who are cur-
rently learning their 
roles will give breath 
to the story of a 
family whose lives 
~ere changed by a 
povel read tO them 
in a warehouse. And 
on that November 
pight, Leo Tolstoy, a 
writer long dead, a 
man who was not 
one for the stage 
and cared less for 
the city, will find 
himself in a leading 
role in Broadway. 

The cigar rollers 
in Ybor were not the 
first to hire a lector. 
Across the gulf and many years before the city 
was founded, a group of artisans in Havana 
decided to find someone to read to them 
while they worked. The artisans pooled their 
wages and hired a deep-voiced lector who 
arrived each morning with a newspaper and a 
book in hand. He sar on a platform in the 
middle of the room and read in his booming 
voice. The workers were pleased, and the tra-
dition of the lector stayed alive with those 
who left to work in what was then the cigar 
capital of the world. On a summer day before 
the depression, strolling down the brick 
streets of Ybor, you might have overheard a 
lector from Cuba reading aloud from a 
Spanish newspaper in the morning and the
26 
(ln his complex and captivating play, 
·J. Cruz, who teaches playwriting at the Yale 
School of Drama and, in April of this 
year, became the first Latino co receive a 
Pulitzer Prize, explores the ways in which lit-
erature can become a provacatrice, affecting 
not only the way one perceives the world, but 
also the decisions one makes in the most inti-
mate of settings. Cruz relays the sobering and 
sometimes magical turn of events that result 
after Ofelia, a middle-aged woman with a 
pragmatic streak and a penchant for stories, 
hires 38-year-old lector Juan Julian to read to 
the workers in the cigar factory owned by her 
gambler husband, Santiago. Juan Julian has 
chosen as his first book, Tolsroy's novel of 
lust, 
betrayal, 
forgiveness, 
Anna 
Karmina. The novel quickly becomes both a 
window through which the cigar rollers can 
escape the grueling monotony of factory life, 
and more importantly, a mirror in which they 
can glimpse reflected truths about themselves. 

Marela, Ofelia's twenty-two year old daugh-
ter, a dreamer and a romantic, becomes 
enchanted with the images of Anna waltzing 
in St. Petersburg's ballrooms, while her older 
married sister, Conchira, lives out Anna's 
affair on a factory table, and her parents 
relearn what it means to forgive. 

The beauty of the play's dialogue, which 
some critics have called "stage poetry," is 
undeniable. As Marela tells Conchita, 
"Everything in life dreams. A bicycle dreams 
of becoming a boy, an umbrella dreams of 
becoming the rain, a pear dreams of becom-
ing a woman, and a chair dreams of becom-
ing a gazelle back to the forest." It is in part 
this dreamy playfulness of language that con-
vinced judges who had never seen a staged 
performance of the text to award the play a 
Pulitzer. 

When Anna in tht Tropics makes its 
Broadway debut, the task will fall to actors 
who have been carefully cast to bring this 
well-crafted stage poetry to life. And yet the 
one figure upon whom much of the story 
depends, Tolstoy himself. will have under-
gone no formal audition process. Tolstoy 
makes eight appearances in the play, in the 
form of the excerpts from his novel that are 
spoken by other characters. Cruz, who has 
noted that if his play had a main character it 
would be Tolstoy's novel, said that he chose 
Anna Karmina in part because it Is a love 
srory. And a Russian love story at that, which 
would have been of immense appeal to many 
socialist cigar-workers in the 1920s. 

The reader might wonder: If another 
master writer of romances or one of socialist 
leanings had been chosen for ~e part, say 
Emily Bronte or Fyodor Dosteovesky, would 
the play have so successfully portrayed the 
power of literature to effect change? Indeed, 
as Juan Julian tells the audience. "I could pick 


--- Page 27 ---

13y ~eve ?-fer6ert 
another book. I've brought many." A com-
parison ofTolstoy's world view as expressed 
in Anna Karmina, and embodied in Anna in 
th~ Tropics, suggests that if the criterion is the-
matic compatibility, Tolstoy uniquely fits the 
bill. 

For a start, Tolstoy's world view is con-
sistent with some of the play's most impor-
tant ideas. One can imagine, by comparing 
these overlapping themes, that Cruz and 
Tolstoy would have had much to chat about. 
Tolstoy, like Cruz, was interested in the 
potential that art has to offer us a glimpse of 
something beyond ourselves. Throughout 
Anna Karmina, Tolstoy frames reading, as 
well as other art forms, as an act that can 
inspire transcendence. For example, in a 
scene from Anna Karmina that is excerpted 
in the play, Anna reads on a train shuttling 
through snowy Russia. The experience 
invokes a desire to act like the characters, to 
escape the present reality: 

Anna Arkadyevna read and under-
stood, but it was unpleasant for her to 
read, that is, to follow the reflection 
of other people's lives. She wanted too 
much to live herself. When she read 
about the heroine of the novel taking 
care of a sick man, she wanted to walk 
with inaudible steps round the sick 
man's room; when she read about a 
Member of Parliament making a 
speech, she wanted to make that 
speech; when she read about how 
Lady Mary rode to hounds, teasing 
her sister-in-law and surprising every-
one with her courage, she wanted to 
do it herself. But there was nothing to 
do, and so, fingering the smooth 
knife with her small hands, she forced 
herself to read. 

('l A irroring 
these 
words, 
Cruz 
J, V L describes the young Mariela's 
response to hearing Anna Karenina 
being read aloud: 

Ocroa£R 2003 
9lnna in tfie '11-'!Pics 6y 'J./ifo Cruz ('Theatre 
Communications §rouy, 2003) J'J'·112 
I let myself be taken. When Juan 
Julian statts reading, the story enters 
my body and I become the second 
skin of the characters. 

Yet despite this reflection on literature, 
the idea of a text as a means of communicat-
ing ideas troubled Tolstoy. For every scene in 
his novel in which art offers Anna a glimpse 
of something greater than herself-a land-
scape that inspires awe, a book that inspires 
her to chase hounds-there is a scene to 
counter it. Tolstoy believed that the act of 
reading is an imperfect means of communica-
tion. First, the reality of the present cannot be 
escaped by merely picking up a good book. 
When Anna reads on the train, she is unable 
to escape a burning sense of shame, even as 
the heroine in the book in her hands 
approaches happiness. Secondly, as at least 
one eminent scholar has pointed out, Tolstoy 
emphasizes that a single text can give rise to a 
multitude of interpretations. In this way, the 
author's message cah be convoluted. A lover's 
note is misunderstood by the wife of the adul-
terous husband who fmds it, while a book 
that a socialist spends a lifetime creating is 
lost on all who read it. 

In both these respects, insofar as is evi-
dent in Anna in the Tropics, Cruz seems to 
agree with Tolstoy. Just as Anna cannot escape 
from her shame, the cigar workers cannot 
escape the material world of factory life. As 
Ofelia warns her daughter Mariela: "But my 
child, people like us ... We have to remember 
to keep our feet on the ground and stay living 
inside our shoes and not have lofty illusions." 
And just as none of Tolstoyls characters are 
able to understand books and plays and 
paintings in the same way, so too are his fel-
low-stage characters in Anna in the Tropia 
stymied by the problem of interpretation. As 
Conchita tells her husband Palomo during a 
marital dispute, "I pay attention to what he 
reads. I just don't take everything to hean the 
way you do ... for some reason I never hear 
the story the same way you do." 

One might wonder, then, whether 
Tolstoy, a writer who in his time decried writ-
ing as an imperfect means of communication, 
still makes a good choice for a play about the 
power of literature to effect change. A further 
look into both texts suggests this is not as 
problematic as it seems. Both Tolstoy and 
Cruz seem to believe that the limitations of a 
text can be overcome by the non-verbal com-
munication within it. Symbols such as a 
stolen glance, a song, the touch of a hand, can 
convey meaning in places the fallible written 
word cannot. In Anna Karmina, these 
moments of understanding occur most ofren 
when characters communicate through their 
eyes. When Anna meets her lover Vronsky at 
the train station, they exchange glances and 
Vronsky is able to decipher Anna's story: "In 
that brief glance Vronsky had time to notice 
the restrained animation that played over her 
face and fluttered between her shining eyes 
and the barely noticeable smile that curved 
her red lips." Or when Stepan Arkadyich 
awakes to the memory that his wife has dis-
covered his affair, his guilt and past is under-
stood: "From their eyes, which met in the 
mirror, one could see how well they under-
stood each other." 

This type of non-verbal communication 
is embodied i~ several moments throughout 
the play, when Cruz's characters understand 
each other not through spoken means, but 
through symbols. At the end of the first act 
Conchita tells Juan Julian that she used to cut 
her hair every second day of February. For 
Conchita, her hair tells a story. Juan Julian 
asks, "And how does one read the story of 
your hair," to which Conchita responds, "The 
same way one reads a face or a book." 

Tolstoy's views on betrayal and forgive-
ness offer another reason to cast him as prin-
ciple actor in Cruz's play. Tolstoy, who 
wavered in his religious beliefs, opens his 
novel with an epitaph from Romans 12:19, SL 
Paul, in which St. Paul announces the exis-
tence of a divine law. Tolstoy, in his trunca-
tion of the phrase, implies that it is not our 
place to enact judgment or take revenge upon 
those who have harmed us, for God says: 
"Vengeance is mine. I will repay." 
27



**Tolstoy in Anna in the Tropics**
**Author:  Unlisted**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
the 
Class 
of 
• 
i 
28 
lfTolstoy were alive today one can spec-
ulate that he would be more than pleased to 
see the ways in which this epitaph manifests 
itself in the lives of his fellow characters on 
stage. One of the more touching moments of 
forgiveness takes place between Santiago and 
Ofelia. After Santiago has gambled away 
much of the f.unily's money, he asks Ofelia, 
"Have I lost you?" to which she responds, "If 
you had lost me, I wouldn't be here. If you 
had lost me, I wouldn't be by your side. How 
can you say that you've lost me?" Tolstoy's 
epitaph, it seems, has followed him onto the 
stage. 


Add to this Tolstoy's interest in games as 
literary devices, and it is even more apparent 
why he is well cast. Readers of Anna Karmina 
will remember the many colorful scenes of 
horse-gambling, croquet-playing, card-cajol-
ing, and chess-maneuvering. It is appropriate 
then that the play in which Tolstoy appears 
commences with a cock-fight-a contest 
whose outcome is determined by forces out-
side of the individuals' control-and revolves 
partly around a character with a penchant for 
gambling. 


Finally, and perhaps less overdy, Tolstoy's 
opinions on mechanization and its corrupt-
ing influence neady parallel those embodied 
in Anna in th~ Tropics. In Anna Karmina, 
Tolstoy creates a near-utopian realm in the 
Russian countryside, which for his character, 
Levin, is "the place of life, that is, of joy, suf-
fering, labor." It is here that Levin, who 
"despises and hates the city and city-
dwellers," experiences utter happiness while 
mowing the fields: 
The longer Levin mowed, the ltlore 
often he felt those moments of obliv-
ion during which it was no longer his 
arms that swung the scythe, but the 
scythe itself that lent motion to his 
whole body, full of life and conscious 
of itself, and, as if by magic, without a 
thought of it, the work got riglidy and 
neady done on its own. 
THE NEW joURNAL 


Tolstoy is thus well-placed in a play that 
also examines the two contrasting realms of 
modern technology and nature, and ultimate-
ly falls on the side of nature. These realms are 
less well-defined in Anna in tht Tropics, deci-
pherable only through the characters allu-
sions to a park in the middle of a city where 
time slows and the pace of life is at its best, 
free of the threat of machines. Tolstoy would 
likely find himself in good company with 
Juan Julian, who admits: 
I don't really like cities. In the country 
one has freedom ... as my father used 
to say, living in a city is like living 
inside the mouth of a crocodile, 
buildings all around you like teeth. 
The teeth of culture, the mouth and 
tongue of civi.liz.ation. Every time I go 
to a park, I'm reminded of how we 
always go back tO nature. 


Thus, when Cheche, Santiago's brother, 
calls for "Modernity, Progress, Advancement," 
Juan Julian, speaking almost as if channeling 
Tolstoy's own Levin, responds, "The ttuth is 
that machines, cars, are keeping us from tak-
ing walks and sitting on park benches, smok-
ing a cigar slowly and calmly." Tolstoy, it 
seems, would approve. 


Next month, when the lights go up, the 
curtains go down, and the actors march on 
stage for the opening act of Anna in tht 
Tropics, audiences will see for themselves how 
Tolstoy rues as a character. Those seated in 
the darkness will find themselves in a rare 
moment in which the voices of two literary 
masters will carry them up outside the walls 
of the present and into worlds that reflect 
their own. 
M4eVt Htrbnt, a smior in Davmport Colkgt, 
is on tht staff ofTNJ. 
OcroaER 2003 
J_l 
({Jill


**How YALE ARE You?**
**Author: Kathryn Malizia**
**Page number(s): 30**

How YALE ARE You? 
By Kathryn Malizia 
Yale University Health Services welcomes you to our mental health screening system. This anonymous and confidential screening is available to aJI 
Yale students free of charge. You are the only person who will know the results; it is provided to help you determine if a consultation is necessary. 
1. How long have you attended Yale? 
a) One year 
b) Two years 
c) Long enough to forget puking in a uashcan at-Naples. 
d) We've been in Davenport since Do)ly Madison fled the White 
House. 
2. When someone back home ash where you go to college, you are 
most likely to responcL 
a) "A small, anonymous school in the northeast," as yo\.1 scare at your 
feet. 
b) "It's not so much a college as a symbol of the coruervative ditisrp 
and corporate greed that I've dedicated my"lik to fighting," u you 
raise your fist in indignation. 
c) "Why, the family alma mater, of course," as you ra,ise your cocktail 
glass in self-satisfaction. 
d) "Harvard Sucks!" as you point to your XL Game t-shirt from fresh 
man year. 
3. On a sunny day in New Haven, you are most likdy to be: 
a) Sitting in your residential college courtyard sipping iodized water 
from a Nalgene as your girlfriend strokes your dreads. 
b) Bursting into song as you etch your singing group's name into wet 
cement. 
c) Running to your next meeting as you make a list of things you've 
already done. 
d) New Haven has sunny days? 
4. On a typical weekend in New Ha'ftll, you are most likely to be& 
a) In another state or, if possible, another country. 
b) Scoping the hooey cam at Toad's. 
c) Waging war on "The Man." 
d) In the library, imagining what you'll look like in..tcn yean on,_ the 
cover of Th~ Nnv l'Ork Ttmes M"fl'Zine. 
e) Sipping jug wine out of a paper cup as you dedicate every-waking 
moment to producing a somewhat obscure, scrappy undergtaduate 
magazine that circulates as many copies per issue as the Yak DaiLy 
Nnvs does, well, daily. 
5. Right now you are: 
a) pregnant 
b) drinking heavily 
6. How often do you speak in discussion section? 
a) Never. I intimidate others with my silent superiority. 
b) Often. I feel that what I lack in relevance can be made up for in 
repetition. 
c) My TA is hot. 
d) Incessantly. The sound of my own voice sends me into rapturous 
ecstasies. 
e) I agree with b), and would also like to point out that what I lack in 
relevance can be made up for in repetition. 
7. Do you ha,ft a significant other? 
a) Yes. Her ,name is Slinky, she's my pet ferret. 
b) Yes. S/he moved in to my already cramped double two years ago. You 
probably wouldn't understand. 
c) No. But I would bang Jonathan Spence if he'd have me. 
d) I don't understand the question. 
8. How would you characterize your friendships? 
a) Deep and meaningful. 
b1 Determined solely by politcal affiliation. 
c) !love you, weed! 
d) Fuck you. 
e) Have you heard of Friendster? 
9. How would you desCribe your involvemen t in the New Haven 
community? 
a) Imaginative: I get rip-roaring drunk and pretend it's New York. 
b) DelusionaJ: I believe tutoring New Haven middle-schoolers for an 
hour every Friday actually makes a difference. 
c) Deep: I'm on a first name basis with the Flower Lady. 
d) Exploitative: I'm organizing a "fight blight" group to guarantee my 
spot ar Yale Law. 
10. IfYalc were an animal, you'd say it was a: 
a) Dolphin, the sea's peaceful sage caught in the inescapable Ret of 
leftist profasors and selfish unions. 
b) Rat, feeding off the sweet sweet cheese of rax exemptions and the 
slow annihilation of local businesses. 
c) Rabid dog, pursuing me night and day, its cruel fangs just inches 
from my heels. 
d) Unicorn, beautiful but irrelevant in the real world.* 
30 
·dpq reuo!~OJd 'PQS no..< n:tp ~ls:l~ns ..<~uom S! l! •suops:lnb ~AoqE ~tp JO ..<rre ~J~MStre no..< JI • 



**Title: Yale University: Contributing to a Strong New Haven**
**Author: [Author not specified]**
**Page number(s): 32**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Yale University: 
C:ontributing to a Strong New Haven
) ; tit · ·· n i \ · r ~ i tl · 111 c 1 k <. • s ~ i ~ 11 i fi <.-u 11 f (.-o 11 t rib 111 i o 11 ~ to c d 11 c u t i o 11 u I ll 11 d 
' 
._ 
. 
c"ltlturul outJ·c,u-11 progrllnl .' tiJJtlto (0111/llllllity illl'C_'-fllll'IIIS 
0 II S j .it' if~ C d Ill J> II S iII l\.,' C \\ ' f-{ ll ll 'C 11 CdC fl }' C ll r. 
Yale University Strengthens Neighborhoods 
Yale ha1 contributed to 1.c't00 uniu o( afronbb~ hou•· 
ina and holM o~A·nenhip in New Ha,~n neighborhoods 
thRMAth the Y.Jc JJomcbU)~ prostam ~nd •hroush 
tuppon (or communhy d~~lopment ccuporadons. 
Yale Unh'C'llity provid~ mo~ than u,ooo sooc1 ;obi 
in New Hawn with .trans job .security. soOd ~· 
UMt ~mt 
btndiu indudina (~ rMdial care. the 
homcbu)"W propam, ooll~ Jeholanhips for cmplo)u 
<hild.ttn. and up to '1 paid days otr for \'acatton, 
holid.a)-,. lick )(a~, and pcnonal ti.mC'. 
Vale Unlwrslty SUpports Downtown 
V.le La a rmjor •ponJOr ol the JntcomationaJ FmivaJ of 
Art• and ldtaa. Sbubtrt Thtattr. Market N.ew Ha\~n. 
ucl'lbwn Gftel\ Spcdal Sfrvka Di.crict. 
1h• '""""'' ''*"' ... 4N\" 
Ftlti-,al ot""' •'"' 
N.•tiftNtwHwftft 
~···*~ .. .,... .. 
UNnnt~ ~ 
""' 
.,,..._,..,,. .,,...., 
" .............. . 
.. GNeft. 
Yale University Enriches Public School Education 
Mos-c than 10.000 New H3\~n 1-ouns. pcopk participate 
in Yale-~nso~ acodm1ic and ath~tic propams on 
thC' Yale campu5 C'\~~ ~r. 
Yale University Supports ,Govemment and 
Promotes Economic Development 
Sina 1990. Y.tC' bu paid mo~ than no million in '11'01· 
untar)' contributionJ diR"CCI)• to the Oty pnnr-Mnt. 
FuD property taxes paid on its community inwstmenu 
makt Y.tc Univ«sity th<- cit)•'.s sinsJe bi'JC'$( rc.tl estate 
tup:syu. 
vw. stud•"" hwt t"t«fd ~ 
tha" soo 
~h1 tJwWtt (lementaty Schoclstu~s 
includinl tftoM pidUfed ~. thO new IHfcfi. 
tiOft to~· school wu. ~~ 
b7 ..oluM..-$ 
from the Ylk School ol AKhttc<tuft. 
Th~~""'"' 
t'-e Hlee OewelopfwMM 
COfpontiOft of this 
_.,. ... ., .. bli ..... 
buiWiftCbOMol 
... ...,. ._. ......... . 
fM'Olltelt .,.... hM 
·••••ted. 
Yale University: Contributing to a Strong Ne\v Haven 



--- Page 31 ---

• pr 
'75 
y 
-
TYCO offers a variety of printing, copying 
and finishing related services, too numerous 
to list. If you don't see it, call us, and our 
friendly and professional staff will be happy 
to assist you! 
Binding 
Business Cards 
Xeroxing 
35mm Slides 
Laser Color Copies Canon • Xerox 
Announcements 
Large Format Color Copies 
Digital Output 
Cassette Copying 
Banners 
Desktop Publishing 
Dissertations 
Enlargements 
Faxing 
Envelopes 
Graphic Design 
Flyers 
Highlight Color Copying 
Forms 
Laminating 
Invitations 
Large Document Copying 
Labels 
Mailing Service 
Letterheads 
Mounting 
Carbonless Forms 
Offset Printing 
Programs 
Passport Photos 
Reductions 
Resume Service 
Reports 
Rubber Stamps 
Tickets 
Scanning 
Specialty Printing 
Service You Can Count On. 
Service You Can Trust. 
TY C 0 262 Elm Street • Ne\\ Haven. CT • 203-562-9723 • fax: 203-562-6256 • www.tycocopy.com 

