Publication date: January 2023
Volume: 55
Issue number: 3

**MASTHEAD:**
- Editors-in-Chief: Nicole Dirks, Dereen Shirnekhi
- Executive Editor: Jesse Goodman
- Managing Editor: J.D. Wright
- Associate Editors: Amal Biskin, Abbey Kim, Meg Buzbee, Yosef Malka, Jabez Choi, Cleo Maloney, Lazo Gitchos, Paola Santos, Ella Goldblum, Kylie Volavongsa, Yonatan Greenberg
- Senior Editors: Beasie Goddu, Madison Hahamy, Alexandra Galloway, Zachary Groz
- Copy Editors: Marie Bong, Edie Lipsey, Adrian Elizalde, Lukas Trelease, Rafaela Kottou, Yingying Zhao
- Creative Director: Kevin Chen
- Design Editors: Meg Buzbee, Charlotte Rica, Camille Chang, Karela Palazio, Etai Smotrich-Barr
- Photography: Lukas Flippo
- Members & Directors: Emily Bazelon, Peter Cooper, Jonathan Dach, Kathrin Lassila, Elizabeth Sledge, Fred Strebeigh
- Advisors: Neela Banerjee, Richard Bradley, Susan Braudy, Lincoln Caplan, Jay Carney, Andy Court, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Susan Dominus, David Greenberg, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Laura Pappano, Jennifer Pitts, Julia Preston, Lauren Rawbin, David Slifka, John Swansburg, Anya Kamenetz, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Nicole Allan, Margaret Bauer, Mark Badger and Laura Heymann, Anson M. Beard, Susan Braudy, Julia Calagiovanni, Elisha Cooper, Haley Cohen, Peter Cooper, Andy Court, The Elizabethan Club, Leslie Dach, David Freeman and Judith Gingold, Paul Haigney and Tracey Roberts, Bob Lamm, James Liberman, Alka Mansukhani, Benjamin Mueller, Sophia Nguyen, Valerie Nierenberg, Morris Panner, Jennifer Pitts, R. Anthony Reese, Eric Rutkow, Lainie Rutkow, Laura Saavedra and David Buckley, Anne-Marie Slaughter, Elizabeth Sledge, Caroline Smith, Gabriel Snyder, Elizabeth Steig, Aliyya Swaby, John Jeremiah Sullivan, Daphne and David Sydney, Kristian and Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Townsend Wilson, Daniel Yergin, William Yuen


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**

The Cost To Ride - Jesse Goodman
Reintegration Roadblocks - Ángela S. Pérez Aguilar
When Yale Harbored a Nazi, Part 2: The Open Secret - Zachary Groz
This Tattoo is Permanent - Eileen Huang
Piano Man - Cora Hagens
Theseus’ Ship - Amanda Budejen
On my good friend, Reese Jacobs, essay - Lana Perice
Diamond Cave, photo essay - Rachel Shin
Animal Crossing, crossword - Jesse Goodman


**Title: Letter from the Editors**
**Author: The Managing Board**
**Page number(s): 2**

Dear readers,
We’d like to greet you with a goodbye. Specifically, take care.
Take care is a promise willed to the departing. It means keep yourself safe and
pay attention. Volume 55, Issue 3 of The New Journal follows people and 
communities who intimately understand what it means to fulfill this promise, 
and when a promise isn’t enough. Formal systems of support can fail to help 
individuals, so informal systems—from personal networks to strangers who 
want to help—step up to take care when those established channels fall short. 
In this issue, communities take the wheel, literally.
“Reintegration Roadblocks” follows an organization that supports people 
reintegrating post-incarceration to overcome the innumerable hurdles on 
the road to getting a driver’s license; while, in “Scrap Cycling,” a writer cycles 
after the man behind Peels on Wheels—a start-up filling in for New Haven’s 
landfill-dependency by collecting neighborhood food scraps on his bike.
In our cover story, students make the game-time decision for their friends in 
alcohol-induced emergencies: either call 9-1-1—sinking their friends into the 
debt induced by an uninsured ambulance trip—or hang up to take care of the 
emergency themselves. “It’s not right,” Chief Perez says when our Executive 
Editor Jesse Goodman speaks to him. “We’re supposed to take care of each 
other.”
It doesn’t stop there. In one story, we see a woman spend decades fighting to 
build public memory of Lucretia, an enslaved woman who is believed to be
the first Black resident of New Haven. In another, the crowds brought 
together by the Elm City Express come back to life, with wins shared both 
among the players and the city alike. In “This Tattoo Is Permanent,” clients’ 
queer identities and permanent ink collide as modes of rebellion, thanks to 
the work of a queer tattoo artist. And, in the endnote, a man tends to the 
pianos in the School of Music one string at a time, the quiet enabler of the 
thrum of the ivories at hundreds of concerts.
We’d like to thank the writers, editors, copy editors, designers, Photography 
Head Lukas Flippo, and Creative Director Kevin Chen for the tremendous 
amount of care they put into this issue. Our collective promise is this issue, 
which we now depart, and leave to you. 
Take care,
The Managing Board


**Title: The Cost To Ride**
**Author: Jesse Goodman**
**Page number(s): 4, 6, 10**

STUDENTS SAY THE COST 
OF AN AMBULANCE IS 
PREVENTING THEM FROM 
SEEKING NECESSARY 
EMERGENCY CARE.
IS YALE PAYING ATTENTION?
THE
COST
TO RIDE
BY
JESSE
GOODMAN



**Title: Reintegration Roadblocks**
**Author: Ángela S. Pérez Aguilar**
**Page number(s): 14**

Previously incarcerated Connecticut residents 
face complicated barriers to receiving their 
licenses, making it difficult to get to work. 
BY ÁNGELA S. PÉREZ AGUILAR


**Title: When Yale Harbored a Nazi, Part 2: The Open Secret**
**Author: Zachary Groz**
**Page number(s): 22**

Years after one Nazi was exposed at Yale, 
another remained on the faculty of the Slavic 
Languages and Literatures department.
BY ZACHARY GROZ


**Title: This Tattoo Is Permanent**
**Author: Eileen Huang**
**Page number(s): 36**

profile
This Tattoo is Permanent
Art and queerness at the Broken Crystal Tattoo Studio in
Milford, Connecticut.
By Eileen Huang


**Title: Piano Man**
**Author: Cora Hagens**
**Page number(s): 42**

endnote
Piano Man
In the School of Music, piano technician William Harold has
been attending the 130 Steinways for the last twenty-five years.
By Cora Hagens


**Title: Theseus’ Ship**
**Author: Amanda Budejen**
**Page number(s): 46**

poems 
Theseus’ Ship
By Amanda Budejen


**Title: On my good friend, Reese Jacobs, essay**
**Author: Lana Perice**
**Page number(s): 43**

all else
On my good friend, Reese Jacobs, essay, by Lana Perice, page 43.


**Title: Diamond Cave, photo essay**
**Author: Rachel Shin**
**Page number(s): 50**

Diamond Cave, photo essay, by Rachel Shin, page 50.


**Title: Animal Crossing, crossword**
**Page number(s): 55**

Animal Crossing, crossword, by Jesse Goodman, page 55.


**Title: Coin-Gate: Who Stole Yale’s Doubloon?**
**Author: Lara Yellin**
**Page number(s): 52**

snapshots
Coin-Gate: Who Stole Yale’s Doubloon?
Seventy years ago, five burglars stole nearly one million dollars 
worth of coins from the Yale Numismatics collection. We still 
don’t know who they were.
By Lara Yellin


**Title: The Rise and Fall of the Elm City Express**
**Author: Maggie Grether**
**Page number(s): 54**

The Rise and Fall of the Elm City Express
For a glorious two years, New Haven had a soccer team.
By Maggie Grether


**Title: Lucretia’s Corner**
**Author: Johnny Phan**
**Page number(s): 38**

critical angle
Lucretia’s Corner
Nearly four hundred years after the earliest known enslaved 
African was brought to New Haven, a local researcher has 
found a small way to remember her.
By Johnny Phan


**Title: Gilgamesh to Enkidu**
**Author: Edie Lipsey**
**Page number(s): 10**

Gilgamesh to Enkidu
By Edie Lipsey



**Title: Points of Departure**
**Author: Sadie Bograd**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
4
January 2023        TheNewJournal
Points of Departure
Scrap Cycling
D
omingo Medina, owner and foun-
der of Peels & Wheels Composting, 
surveys the heap of food waste before 
him. Over a thousand pounds of 
rejected leftovers are spread in a neat 
rectangle at his feet, the sweet smell 
of decay punching through the win­
ter chill. His son, Noah, shoos his 
dog away from a banana peel. One 
employee scours the pile for still-edi­
ble melons and potatoes to take home. 
Another wades into the garbage, pick­
ing out stray pieces of plastic and com­
post bin liners.

Medina grabs a shovel to start turn­
ing the pile as he tells me about his com­
posting setup.
“It’s all human-scale,” he says. “It 
doesn’t require any machinery, just labor 
force.”

Medina is the brains and one-sixth 
of the brawn behind Peels & Wheels, 
New Haven’s bike-based composting 
service. For $7.50 per pickup, Medina 
and his five employees will collect your 
food scraps and pedal them to a small 
facility by the Mill River where orange 
rinds and eggshells slowly turn back into 
soil for local farms and gardens. Since its 
founding in 2014, Peels & Wheels has 
diverted over one hundred and ninety 
thousand pounds of food waste.

I joined Medina for his Monday 
pickup route on a blustery morning in 
December. It took a while for him to 
confirm our meeting point: “My refer­
ences are trees, doors, corners, not num­
bers,” he told me.

His process, though, he knows by 
heart. He coasts into each customer’s 
driveway, eyes peeled for the little green 
bin left on the porch or by the dumpster. 
He weighs the bucket with a portable 
scale, spins the top off with a practiced 
ease, and heaves its contents into one 
of the large black bins on his trailer, 
smacking the base to dislodge tenacious 
scraps. And then he bikes away to his 
next destination, his trailer fourteen or
so pounds heavier.

Medina rides a beast of a bicycle: 
bright orange with an electric assist, a 
heavy gray trailer, and tires as thick as my 
forearm. My gray road bike looks puny 
by comparison. Although Medina was 
dragging three hundred pounds of gar­
bage, I found myself racing to keep up 
as I followed him up Canner and down 
Orange, stopping at three consecutive 
houses on Whitney Avenue.

Our route reflected the business’s 
limited clientele. Peels & Wheels only 
accepts customers in East Rock, Prospect 
Hill, Wooster Square, Downtown New 
Haven, and Westville, plus Spring Glen 
and Whitneyville in Hamden—an eight 
mile radius covering some of the wealth­
iest parts of the region. The collection 
area doesn’t include the lower-income 
neighborhoods of Fair Haven, although 
that’s where the compost is processed, 
or Newhallville, even though it’s next to 
Prospect Hill.

Medina says he worries about these 
inequalities, but sees them as the inher­
ent limitations of running a business. 
It’s not that he doesn’t want to serve 
more neighborhoods, but that there 
aren’t enough people requesting his 
services. Weekly collection costs $30 a 
month (although about twenty off-cam­
pus Yale students get subsidized pickups 
through the Yale Student Environmental 
Coalition). Peels & Wheels is funded by 
its customers, so its customers are mostly 
people with funds to spare.

“I needed to do something that 
could pay for itself. I worked a long, long 
time for not-for-profits,” he told me. “It 
required me to write grants and to chase 
the money, and I got tired of it…I’m just 
not willing to get into boards, and meet­
ing every month, and trying to convince 
people. My time of convincing is done. 
For me, it’s about doing.”

Employee Austin Larkin takes a 
similar perspective. I chat with him 
while we hack discarded vegetables into 
pieces, increasing their surface area so 
they decompose faster. Larkin describes 
himself as a former “guerrilla composter” 
who used to bury his food waste in back­
yards and parks before he discovered 
Peels & Wheels.

“It felt very logical and also rad­
ical,” Larkin says as he jabs a hoe into 
a particularly sturdy carrot. “Obviously 
it’s not enough, but it’s also better than 
nothing. It’s what’s possible right now. 
And it’s not about finding an ideal, it’s 
about progress.”


Progress, though, might be difficult 
without more institutional support. Two 
years ago, New Haven’s Food System 
Policy Division received a $90,000 USDA 
grant, which it used to improve commu­
nity garden compost systems and start 
community composting working groups. 
But due to bureaucratic challenges, the 
Division failed to find city-owned land 
where they could start another food 
waste diversion site. Instead, they used 
the money to expand Common Ground 
High School’s compost facility (which 
Medina helped establish).

In general, local efforts at food 
waste management are “a little frag­
mented” and limited by budgetary con­
straints, according to Deborah Greig, 
Common Ground’s Farm Director. 
There are a handful of independent ini­
tiatives: in addition to Peels & Wheels, 
many restaurants contract with the 
Hartford-based scrap collector Blue 
Earth Compost, while Yale sends its 
dining hall discards to an anaerobic 
digestion facility in Southington. But 
there’s no citywide compost infrastruc­
ture, and no organizations devoted to 
helping interested residents develop 
composting skills.

“You need to have municipal-level 
compost. It almost doesn’t matter that 
there’s micro-haulers out there,” Greig 
said. “I think it’s impossible to create 
equity and access in education and com­
posting itself until there’s also a larger 
effort [by] the city.”

Medina agrees: he notes that Peels 
& Wheels is New Haven’s main home 
compost hauler, yet it only serves about 
five hundred households out of more 
than fifty thousand in the city. But he 
insists that a micro-scale approach can 
work on a municipal level. Most city­
wide compost systems, he says, rely on 
massive trucks and process food waste in
a central hub. They treat food waste as 
a “nuisance” to whisk away rather than a 
valuable good to return to local residents. 
He would prefer a decentralized network 
of compost haulers and processors, with 
programs like Peels & Wheels closing 
the loop in every zip code.

“Everybody sees my business like 
something cute,” he said. “But it’s also a 
demonstration that things can be done 
differently.”

Although Medina swears his opera­
tion is scalable, he is struggling to make 
it last. Right now, Peels & Wheels oper­
ates rent-free from the parking lot of 
sustainable printing company Phoenix 
Press, sweeping stray bits of food from 
the asphalt at the end of each process­
ing session. Local nonprofit New Haven 
Farms—which has since merged with 
the New Haven Land Trust to become 
Gather New Haven—grows crops in a 
small plot beneath the press’ wind tur­
bines, and Medina founded Peels & 
Wheels so that they could have free 
compost processed on site. But Phoenix 
Press’ owners are selling, and Medina 
has yet to find a new location.

Medina is not a melancholy man—
fist bumps are his preferred farewell ges­
ture—but as he ponders this dilemma, 
he turns pensive. Expanding the city’s 
compost systems requires broader con­
cern about food waste. But how do you 
get people to stop making their garbage 
someone else’s problem—to stop “push­
ing the wrinkle,” as Medina puts it?

He takes heart in the fact that he 
is providing a valuable service for his 
community. Peels & Wheels started, 
according to college freshman Noah, 
as “a notepad with five clients” and “a 
bunch of little containers all around 
the house.” Over the last nine years, his 
dad’s company has kept one hundred 
and ninety thousand pounds of food 
waste out of incinerators and created 
nearly sixteen thousand metric yards of 
soil-enriching compost.

And it doesn’t hurt that subscribers 
tend to be effusive in their gratitude.
“I tried [composting with] worms 
and unfortunately I filled my house 
with bugs and so Domingo’s service 
was a godsend when I learned about it,” 
Virginia Chapman, a Peels & Wheels 
customer and Director of Yale’s Office 
of Sustainability, said in an email. “I 
love the low carbon footprint (the 
wheels), the garden it was supporting, 
and the compost I get back every year 
for my garden.”

Besides, the job stays interesting. 
Most of what ends up in the compost 
bins is fairly standard—chopped vegeta­
bles, stale bread, the accidental piece of 
silverware. But when I ask Medina about 
the strangest thing he’s seen in a com­
post bin, he has an answer prepared.
“I honestly thought there was a 
woman that was trying to compost her 
husband,” Medina said.

Strands of hair and fingernail clip­
pings started showing up in her compost 
bin. Then shirts, then trousers.

Medina never saw any human 
limbs—and, as far as he knows, there 
were none to be disposed of. But if it 
weren’t aiding and abetting a murder, he 
says Peels & Wheels could have com­
posted them.
“We’ll take anything that’s organic…
animal or plant-based.” ∎
Sadie Bograd is a sophomore in 
Davenport College.
illustrations by meg buzbee
The Peels & Wheels compost pile in the parking 
lot of Pheonix Press near the Mill River.
Sadie Bograd / The New Journal


**Title: Coin-Gate: Who Stole Yale’s Doubloon?**
**Author: Lara Yellin**
**Page number(s): 6**

6
Coin-Gate: Who Stole
 Yale’s Doubloon?
Seventy years ago, five burglars stole nearly one million dollars worth of coins
from the Yale Numismatics collection. We still don’t know who they were.
By Lara Yellin
Snapshot
on the night of May 
29th, 1965, five masked 
men broke into Sterling 
Memorial Library. The 
thieves hid among the 
stacks of old books 
before overtaking the night guards and 
breaking into the basement vaults. That 
night, they would carry out four thou­
sand looted coins, weighing about sixty 
pounds, from the Yale Numismatics col­
lection—one of the most decorated and 
valuable coin collections in the world. 
Among their loot, they took Yale’s famed 
Brasher Doubloon, the first gold coin 
produced in the United States follow­
ing independence. Altogether, the stolen 
artifacts totaled a value of almost one 
million dollars at the time—the largest 
robbery New Haven had ever seen. The 
case remains unsolved.

“The theft was carried out with 
expert selectivity,” explained James Tanis, 
the University Librarian at the time, in a 
June 7, 1965, Yale University News Bureau 
press release. “Only a limited number 
of the stolen coins are unique and read­
ily identifiable . . . In some instances, the 
thieves selected from individual trays 
only those coins combining high value 
and potential for undetected sale.”

Only a discerning eye can identify 
details that make coins more valuable, 
like their metallic composition and 
historic origin—the thieves had that 
eye. The press release also noted that 
the heist relied upon the “deactiva­
tion of burglar alarms and knowledge 
of the details of the safe keeping of 
the collection,” both well-kept secrets 
of the University Library. The thieves 
knew what they were looking for, and 
they knew how to get it.

Complete records of the coins in 
Yale’s numismatics collection were never 
made, largely because of the inconsis­
tent means used to acquire them. Yale’s 
collection was obtained through various 
donations and gifts made by life-long 
collectors affiliated with the University, 
growing to more than one hundred 
thousand coins over two hundred years. 
By the time of the heist, only those 
who routinely handled the collection or 
assisted with its curation knew its spe­
cific contents. The collection’s long-time 
curator, Theodore V. Buttrey, was one of 
the only people with the memory and 
experience required to be able to recount 
the collection. Just before the heist, how­
ever, Buttrey left his curatorial position 
to become a professor of Greek and 
Latin at the University of Michigan.

Following the break-in, Sterling 
Library administrators called Buttrey 
back to New Haven to identify the miss­
ing coins and provide an estimate of their 
cumulative value. The previously men­
tioned University press release also out­
lined these missing objects; the first page, 
titled “pieces easily identifiable,” con­
tained the descriptions of only seventeen 
coins. To the untrained eye, the rest of 
the list read as disorganized and incom­
prehensible. To numismatists, however, 
attuned to the differences in composi­
tion and origin of the stolen coins, pat­
terns appeared immediately—almost all 
of the collection’s American and English 
gold coins, for example, were stolen.

The absence of one particular 
coin was conspicuous: Yale’s Brasher 
Doubloon. A 1981 New York Times arti­
cle described Brasher Doubloons as 
“known among coin collectors as well as a 
Rembrandt among art lovers.” Ephraim 
Brasher, a New York goldsmith, forged 
only seven of these valuable gold coins 
in 1787. Brasher’s doubloons were made 
in the pre-federal period, before the 
establishment of the Philadelphia mint. 
Prior to the federal production of money, 
different types of metals were used to 
form the same coins, creating disparities 
in what should have been consistent val­
ues. Brasher would assay the coin’s actual 
value by measuring its weight in gold 
to ensure a standardized value. Upon 
completion, he would stamp the coins 
with his hallmark ‘EB.’ In addition to the

layout design by kevin chen
Only a discerning
eye can identify details 
that make coins more 
valuable, like their metallic 
composition and historic 
origin—the thieves
had that eye.



**Title: Coin-gate: Who stole Yale’s doubloon?**
**Author: Lara Yellin**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
TheNewJournal        January 2023

coins’ pure composition and EB impres­
sion, the elaborate and unique designs 
covering each doubloon added to their 
historical and monetary value. The coins 
circulated in New York following their 
production, and in 1944, New York’s 
Holy Trinity Church donated one of the 
seven coins to Yale’s growing numismat­
ics collection.

Yale’s famous coin was not miss­
ing for long. Two years after the 1965 
break-in, Richard F. Andrews, an insur­
ance agent specializing in the discovery 
of lost valuables, recovered the doubloon 
in Miami. According to a 1982 New 
York Times article, Andrews was work­
ing a different case in Florida when he 
“came across a trail” that led him to the 
Doubloon. The same article noted that 
Andrews “traced [the coin] through 
underworld figures to a coin collector in 
Chicago” but maintained that the coin 
was found in Miami. Andrews refused 
to provide further information about 
the coin’s recovery to the Times, adding 
only that “no money exchanged hands” 
in return for the doubloon. He only 
explained that the “investigation of the 
missing coins is still active—if I reveal 
any details, it will make the job much 
more difficult.’”

Despite Andrews’ discretion, virtu­
ally no progress has been made on the 
case since 1967. Only one person has 
been convicted of a crime relating to 
the heist: John Reisen, an employee of 
the Chicago-based Columbia Stamp 
and Coin Company, was found stor­
ing sixty-nine of Yale’s missing coins in 
the company safe. The Yale Daily News 
reported on the event, emphasizing hope 
that Reisen’s arrest would lead to further 
discoveries relating to the heist. No fur­
ther arrests have been made in the six­
ty-five years following.

Yale librarians and administration 
seem to want to leave this dramatic com­
ponent of their numismatics career in 
the past. In 1981, Yale decided to sell their 
recovered Brasher Doubloon despite 
the energy and expenses invested in 
its recovery. The University reportedly 
needed the extra income to help fund 
the construction of the new Mudd 
library, leveraging the coin for a $650,000 
payout. Following its sale, Yale added 
that concerns over the security of the 
Doubloon contributed to the decision
to let it go.

Yale’s numismatics collection has 
continued to grow in prestige and con­
tents, despite its doubloon-less state. 
Perhaps the University’s eagerness to 
rid themselves of the Brasher Doubloon 
reflects their desire to move on from the 
embarrassment of the heist.

There is no shortage, however, of 
stories of other numismatic-related 
crimes. Contrary to the popular per­
ception of coin-collecting as a hobby, 
drama is rampant in the numismatics 
community. Just two years after Yale’s 
break-in, millions of dollars’ worth of 
coins were stolen from the Miami man­
sion of Willis H. du Pont, the former 
Chief Executive Officer of General 
Motors and a famed numismatist. The 
mansion’s alarm system reportedly 
failed to turn on when five masked 
burglars entered in the night. Du Pont 
interpreted the thieves’ demand to give 
them “the money” too literally, and led 
them to his basement coin collection. 
The five men made it out with over 
seven thousand coins, exceeding a mod­
ern value of ten million dollars. Among 
the loot was one of the other seven 
existing Brasher Doubloons.

According to another article pub­
lished by the Professional Coin Grading 
Service, one of the Miami thieves decided 
to keep a stolen coin for himself. He hap­
pened to select the Brasher Doubloon. 
For safekeeping, he taped it to his ankle. A 
few months later, he was admitted to the 
hospital following a severe beating by his 
mafioso father-in-law. The nurses attend­
ing to him found the doubloon still taped 
to his leg, recovering a coin worth nearly 
one million dollars.

Unlike the du Pont robbery, which 
is well-recorded and well known among 
coin collectors of varying degrees of seri­
ousness, the infamous Yale Numismatics 
Collection heist is only infamous among 
those entrenched in mint madness—a 
small, but dedicated audience. This is 
despite the odd similarities in the cases. 
Even Yale’s undergraduate coin commu­
nity was largely unaware of the dramatic 


--- Page 8 ---

8
January 2023        TheNewJournal
Yale heist, until after the inaugural 
meeting of the Yale Numismatics Club, 
formed in 2021 by undergraduate numis­
matists eager to work more closely with 
the famed collection.

“A lot of people imagine coin collec­
tors as nerdy kids or really old men,” said 
Noah Savolainen ’25, a sophomore in 
Grace Hopper College and co-founder 
of the Numismatics Club. “And there are 
a lot of those. But many coin dealers are 
just successful finance guys or suave high 
school dealers who sell coins instead of 
drugs.” Like the Yale heist revealed, the 
coin world can be equally lucrative and 
deceptive—traders need insider knowl­
edge and a reputation of integrity within 
the community.

“I’ve been involved with coin collect­
ing for a very long time, and it’s become 
a social and professional element of my 
life, on top of it being a hobby,” said 
Savolainen. He’s not alone. A few days 
before Savolainen spoke with me, he had 
been in Florida at the Florida United 
Numismatists (FUN) show, which attracts 
hundreds of dealers and thousands of 
attendees.

“Coin collecting is a hobby for almost 
everybody who’s involved with it, and 
a business for the others,” Savolainen 
explained. At FUN, Savolainen attended 
an auction offering coins from the col­
lection of Harry Bass—a millionaire 
financier and avid numismatist—with 
sales that totalled $24 million.

The auction is a high-energy 
scene. Objects smaller than an iPhone 
can pack a room with people will­
ing to spend millions on a single coin. 
Someone attending their first auction, 
or perhaps even their first coin show, 
could be seated next to someone with 
a world-renowned collection and never 
know it. Noah said, “The President of 
[Heritage Auctions] was on the phone 
speaking with anonymous buyers bid­
ding through the phone. There is a lot of 
anonymity within the coin world.” He 
explained that security is a large issue 
that most collectors, buyers, and sellers 
often worry about.

Christian Hartch, a junior at 
Princeton University and fellow numis­
matist, reinforced this concern. He and 
Noah recently visited the New York 
International Numismatics Conference, 
where World Numismatics—a collec­
tion showing at the event—claimed to 
have around six figures worth of coins 
stolen from the show. Hartch said, 
“There’s always stuff going around, get­
ting stolen.”

But despite this rather dramatic ele­
ment of the coin world, it is not often 
talked about or highlighted as a large 
component of the community cul­
ture. In fact, Hartch, who created and 
runs one of the largest coin-oriented 
YouTube 
channels—Treasure 
Town 
Coins, with over one hundred thousand 
subscribers—had not even heard of the 
Yale heist until he learned of this article.

The heist that occurred at Yale sev­
enty years ago was not rare in that valu­
able objects, easily used as collateral on 
the black market or liquified for its com­
ponent assets, are often the subject of 
large robberies. What makes this heist so 
peculiar is its lack of closure.

Today, Yale’s numismatics collec­
tion is alive and well. In 2001, the con­
tinuously growing collection boasting 
three hundred thousand coins moved 
into the bright, beautiful Bela Lyon 
Pratt Gallery of Numismatics in the 
Yale University Art Gallery. The gallery 
is composed of two adjacent wood-pan­
eled rooms. The room on the right takes 
up the valuable real estate of a museum 
corner room with large, undisrupted 
windows looking down on Chapel 
Street. It houses just one large table 
that sits surrounded by a small library 
of worn books. The adjacent room of 
the gallery more resembles a maze of 
history, housing multiple floor-to-ceil­
ing shelving units tightly packed with 
foam and leather padding. Despite the 
romantic and grand atmosphere of the 
gallery, unlike the glamorous drama of 
the fine arts community and their mil­
lion-dollar mysteries, no one wants to 
talk about the successful collection’s 
mysterious past. Even the current cura­
tors of Yale’s collection—who hold the 
responsibility of elevating the collec­
tion’s profile—declined to comment on 
the crime. For now, things remain quiet 
and unsolved in the mystery of the 
missing coins. No one seems to want to 
dwell on it. Few even know about it. ∎
Lara Yellin is a sophomore
in Berkeley College.



**Title: “Forgotten Watershed:  Writing Russia’s Great War into Modern Jewish Historiography”**
**Author: Dr. Polly Zavadivker**
**Page number(s): 9**

Judaic Studies Program
Jewish History Colloquium 
 presents 
Dr. Polly Zavadivker 
Assistant Professor of History, University of Delaware 
Thursday, March 2, 2023 @ 12:00PM 
STERLING MEMORIAL LIBRAY 
JUDAICA COLLECTION READING ROOM 
 (120 High Street, 3rd Floor, Room 335B) 
For additional information—contact Renee Reed at renee.reed@yale.edu 
“Forgotten Watershed:  
Writing Russia’s Great 
War into Modern Jewish 
Historiography” 
Polly Zavadivker is Assistant Professor of History and director of the Program in Jewish Studies 
at the University of Delaware. She is completing a book project entitled “A Nation of Refugees: 
World War I and Russia’s Jews” (under contract with Oxford University Press). She is the editor 
and translator from Russian of The 1915 Diary of S. An-sky: A Russian Jewish Writer at the 
Eastern Front (Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 2016). Her articles and essays have 
appeared in Jewish Social Studies, Simon Dubnow Institute Yearbook, and the multi-volume 
series Russia’s Great War and Revolution. Her next project will be an attempt to place Soviet 
Jewish writer Vasily Grossman in the canon of European Holocaust writers. 
She is completing a book project entitled “A Nation of Refugees: World War I and Russia’s 
Jews” (under contract with Oxford University Press). She is the editor and translator from 
Russian of The 1915 Diary of S. An-sky: A Russian Jewish Writer at the Eastern 
Front (Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 2016). Her articles and essays have appeared 
in Jewish Social Studies, Simon Dubnow Institute Yearbook, and the multi-volume 



**Title: Snapshot**
**Author: TheNewJournal**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
10
Snapshot
The Rise and Fall of
the Elm City Express
For a glorious two years, New Haven had a soccer team.
TheNewJournal


**Title: The Rise and Fall of the Elm City Express**
**Author: Maggie Grether**
**Page number(s): 11-12**

11
TheNewJournal        January 2023
I
n the stands of Yale’s Reese 
Stadium, four drummers pounded 
out a roiling beat. Their heads bobbed 
in telepathic communion as the rhythm 
rolled through a crowd of over three  
thousand people.
It was August of 2017, and fans had 
gathered for the championship game of 
the semi-pro National Premier Soccer 
League, or NPSL. The final was a show­
down between Texas’s Midland Odessa 
F.C. and the Elm City Express—New 
Haven’s fledgling team, which had 
remarkably risen to the league champi­
onship in its inaugural year.
The game’s first goal came when 
Tavoy “Bull” Morgan, Elm City’s fleet-
footed top scorer, twisted past three 
defenders to slot the ball into the corner 
of the net. Minutes later, Morgan scored 
again: a mid-air volley with his right 
foot, which blasted the ball to an impos­
sible space just between the crossbar and 
the keeper’s outstretched fingers. In cel­
ebration, the Bull rammed a defender to 
the ground and sprinted to the stands 
with his hands cupped behind his 
ears to hear the fan commotion. More 
goals followed—the final score: 5–0,
Elm City Express.
The 2017 NPSL championship marked 
a high in New Haven sports. Over the 
past century, the city has seen a hockey 
team, a baseball team, and another soc­
cer team come and go. And by 2019, Elm 
City had disbanded too, leaving New 
Haven, once again, without a profes­
sional sports team.
But during that 2017 season, a 
new team and an eager fan base briefly 
alchemized into something unstoppa­
ble. “We started in the cold of February, 
and we ended up winning it by August,” 
remembers former right winger Sha-
quille Saunchez over a phone call last 
December. “It’s a journey that probably 
we will never forget.”


A
n online search for Elm City 
Express leads you five thousand 
miles south to the Brazilian state of 
Santa Catarina. The team was owned by 
the company K2 Soccer North America 
and its affiliate K2 Soccer South America, 
which also oversees a Brazilian soccer 
club. Both companies operate under 
the Brazilian-based investment out­
fit Baltoro Group. The reason why K2 
Soccer landed in New Haven remains 
somewhat unknown—but when the 
company arrived, they found a rich his­
tory of soccer in the city. 
Josh Nelkin was an Elm City fan 
and is a former player for the New York 
Ukrainians, an amateur soccer club. He 
remembers growing up in New Haven 
in the eighties and nineties among a 
vibrant and welcoming pickup soc­
cer scene, rooted in the city’s European, 
Latin American, and African immigrant 
communities. Nelkin had always wished 
for a Connecticut soccer team. “A New 
Haven-based team seemed like a far, far, 
dream,” he tells me over the phone. 
Nelkin’s dream became reality when 
Elm City arrived in 2017. The team built 
a roster based on local talent: in addition 
to a few loan players from K2 Soccer’s 
Brazilian club, management recruited 
heavily among soccer alumni from Post 
University, University of Connecticut, 
Quinnipiac University, Sacred Heart Uni-
versity, and other Connecticut schools.
“[Elm City] were the unifiers, all 
barriers were broken,” Nelkin remembers. 
Matches drew in die-hard soccer heads 
and people new to the game, young kids 
who dreamed of one day playing under 
an Elm City jersey and older fans Nelkin 
recognized from his pickup days, fans 
from a variety of cultural backgrounds. 
Even local Arsenal and Liverpool sup­
porters quelled their rivalry to unite 
behind Elm City.

Some of the team’s most loyal fans 
included participants of Elm City 
Internationals, a New Haven organi­
zation that offers academic and soccer 
programming to low-income youth, 
especially immigrants and refugees. 
Lauren Mednick, the organization’s 
founder, remembers her students col­
lecting autographs and kicking the 
ball around with players after matches. 
Outside of games, a few Elm City 
players tutored and coached students 
during their summer academy. Mednick 
would take students to practically every 
match, even traveling out of state so 
kids wouldn’t miss a chance to see their 
favorite players. “It was really something 
that they looked forward to, especially 
our youngest kids at the time. They 
really idolized the players and got to 
know the players,” Mednick says, and 
even over our crackly phone call, I can 
hear the smile in her voice. 
Head coach Ted Haley remembers 
that the number of fans grew steadily 
with each game. “It was kind of like 
the new restaurant that people start to 
rave about,” Haley says. “We were lucky 
enough to catch fire.”
According to Haley, the team also 
had supporters’ groups, or fan clubs, 
including a group with a New Haven 
pizza theme. “My kids still sing the 
songs that they were singing,” he adds.


T
he pizza song, I discovered, was 
to the tune of “Seven Nation Army.” 
Its composers were members of an Elm 
City supporters’ group known as the 
Brick Oven Brigade. 
I meet Ed Foley, one of the Brigade’s 
founding members, at The Cannon, 
a soccer bar on Dwight Street. The 
Cannon is styled like an English pub 
and home to the New Haven Gooners, 
a local fan base of the English Premier 
League team Arsenal F.C. Behind the bar, 
amidst a red collage of Arsenal memora­
bilia, hangs a blue Elm City scarf.
Foley, who is trim with a well-kept 
goatee, is a regular at The Cannon and 
a long-time member of the Gooners. 
By Maggie Grether
Layout design by Kevin Chen & camille chang
Matches drew in die-hard 
soccer heads and people 
new to the game, young 
kids who dreamed of one 
day playing under an 
Elm City jersey and older 
fans Nelkin recognized 
from his pickup days, fans 
from a variety of cultural 
backgrounds. Even local 
Arsenal and Liverpool 
supporters quelled their 
rivalry to unite behind
Elm City.
Left page, clockwise from top left: Youtube recap of 
the 2017 NPSL National Championship final match 
in Jess Dow Field; photo gallery of the match; Elm 
City Express scarf; once active Facebook supporter’s 
group, “The Yard Dogs”.
Left page: YouTube; National Premier Soccer League; Camille Chang; Facebook


12
January 2023        TheNewJournal
He spins stories expertly, never pausing 
or backtracking, and his speech is pep­
pered with references to mythology and 
ancient history I have to look up after we 
talk. There’s a palpable excitement in his 
voice as he recalls stories about Elm City. 
Foley describes Elm City’s 2017 sea­
son as “the halcyon days,” and the games 
as the “the greatest open mic night in 
all of New Haven.” He and his friends 
would sit behind the goal and poke fun 
at the opposition’s keeper—giving them 
nicknames or calling them by celebrity 
look-alikes. He remembers once yell­
ing at the opposing team as they lined 
up for a defensive corner kick until a 
defender stopped, turned around, and 
started laughing. “It was—how would 
I put it . . . not a hostile atmosphere, but 
an imposing atmosphere of just we’re 
gonna laugh at you for like ninety min­
utes and offer you a beer afterwards,” 
Foley says.
The Brigade was born when Foley 
bought a $3.50 Italian flag emblazoned 
with the word “PIZZA” off of Amazon. 
But he objects when I refer to him as a 
founder of Brick Oven Brigade. “It really 
wasn’t anything that formal,” he says, “we 
were just local dummies.”
While Foley has scrubbed Brick 
Oven Brigade socials off the internet, 
the now-inactive Facebook of a different 
supporters’ group lingers as a snapshot of 
that exciting time in Elm City Express 
history: The Yard Dogs, named after 
guard dogs that roam rail yards to pro­
tect trains. Their posts are just as aggres­
sive as the group’s name suggests, tearing 
into their Connecticut rivals, especially 
Hartford F.C., and reveling in Elm City’s 
dizzying rise.


F
or that 2017 season, Elm City 
Express had no brakes. They rolled 
through the regular season with a 9–2–1 
record. In the postseason, they glided 
past their first four opponents, scoring 
eleven total goals and conceding only 
one. Suddenly, the team had reached the 
league championship.
In the YouTube recap of the finals, 
after Elm City wins, players and fans 
melt onto the field in a screaming, 
jumping mass. Fans shake blue and 
white scarves while the silver cup gleams 
overhead. Mednick remembers play­
ers hoisting one of her students up on 
their shoulders in the middle of the field. 
In the back, you can see Foley waving
the PIZZA flag.
“It was like the epitome of local team 
wins,” says Foley. He went to Christy’s, a 
soccer pub at the time, and partied with 
players after the game. “It was just a real 
good night. One of those feelings that 
you only really get with a semi-profes­
sional team.”


L
oose summer nights stiffened into a
Northeastern autumn, and Elm City
entered the off-season. When the team 
returned in 2018, Nelkin, Haley, Foley, 
and the players I talked to said the 
urgency and energy of the first season 
had dissipated. 
First, Elm City lost their home turf. 
When Reese Stadium underwent reno­
vations in 2018, the team moved to Jess 
Dow Field at Southern Connecticut 
State University. Dow Field was twice as 
large as Reese and less centrally located. 
The roster changed, too. According 
to goalkeeper Matt Jones, nearly all 
players worked separate jobs to supple­
ment their income, making it difficult 
to keep players longterm. In the back­
ground, rumors floated about conflict 
with the Brazilian management and a 
lack of enough funding to carry on past 
the 2018 season.
With fans dispersed among Jess 
Dow’s bleachers, the games lost their 
original intimacy.


he official announcement that 
Elm City would not participate in 
the 2019 season appeared on the team’s 
Instagram in January. It remains the last 
post on the account.
There’s no epic trainwreck to mark 
the end of Elm City Express: just a 
scattering of gently rusted remains. As 
I collected bits of the team’s story, I 
wandered through abandoned social 
media accounts, old YouTube clips, 
and 
corporate 
websites 
translated 
from Portuguese; I learned about the 
pickup soccer games that used to rule 
Yale fields and heard strange stories of 
hundreds of Elm City scarves sponta­
neously appearing at the local Savers. 
Slowly, an image began to emerge—one 
of a team so intimate, so tangible for 
fans that, for one summer, it became 
transcendent.
In one telling, the story of Elm City 
Express ends in a surprising tragedy: a 
source of joy for New Haveners vanish­
ing with no satisfying explanation. In a 
different version, Elm City’s demise was 
inevitable. The very things that made 
the team special—its smallness, local­
ness, its concentrated fanbase—made it 
difficult to pull in a wide group of casual 
viewers, creating a model too insular to 
survive long-term.
What I can say for sure, is that New 
Haven had a soccer team. A good one, 
too. They created something special 
at Reese stadium. But they’re not here 
anymore, and the craving for the energy, 
connection, and purpose Elm City gen­
erated for its fans remains. Nearly every 
fan I talked to expressed a hope that 
someday Elm City, or a local team like 
it, could return to the city.
The Rise and Fall of the Elm City Express
In the YouTube recap of
the finals, after Elm 
City wins, players
and fans melt onto the 
field in a screaming, 
jumping mass. Fans 
shake blue and white 
scarves while the silver
cup gleams overhead.
From amazon.com



**Title: The Rise and Fall of the Elm City Express**
**Author: Maggie Grether**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Since the disbandment, some play­
ers joined other teams or started coach­
ing, while others moved on to different 
professions. The players most involved 
with Elm City Internationals are still 
in contact with the kids they mentored, 
usually through FaceTime. Ted Haley 
remains at Post University. Foley has 
directed much of his energy back to the 
New Haven Gooners. He still has the 
PIZZA flag, however, packed away at his 
parents’ house.


Foley remembers his time with Elm 
City as a “weird little bright spot” in his 
life while he worked a job he didn’t like. 
For one excellent summer, he slipped 
into a routine: meeting friends for 
drinks, going to the game, winning, and 
then bringing everyone back to the bar 
to celebrate.


“Knowing the way it ended and how 
disappointing it would be, I’d still take it,” 
he says. “I wouldn’t even say bittersweet, 
just sweet memories.” 


Nelkin hasn’t given up on his dream 
of a New Haven soccer team. He thinks 
the Elm City fan base lies dormant, 
ready to be resurrected at any moment. 
Yale’s renovated soccer field, set in front 
of the brick backdrop of Coxe Cage 
field house, reminds Nelkin of a small 
English stadium, and he believes that, 
if Elm City Express came back, they 
could consistently sell it out. Every time 
he passes the stadium, he peeks inside 
and imagines: the stands brimming 
with New Haven soccer heads, the pitch 
studded with players in navy shirts, the 
air filled with chanting, a shrill whistle, 
and the echo of drums. ∎
Maggie Grether is a first-year
in Ezra Stiles College.
Slowly, an image began to 
emerge—one of a team so 
intimate, so tangible for
fans that, for one summer,
it became transcendent.
Top: The last post on the Elm City Express’s 
Instagram page announced that they would not 
be competing in the 2019 season of the NPSL. 
Facebook post and Facebook comment texts were 
taken from “The Yard Dogs” Facebook group.
Screenshot courtesy of @elmcityexpress on Instagram.


**Title: REINTEGRATION ROADBLOCKS**
**Author: Ángela S. Pérez Aguilar**
**Page number(s): 14**

Previously incarcerated Connecticut residents face complicated barriers
to receiving their licenses, making it difficult to get to work.



**Title: Reintegration Roadblocks**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
On top of the burden 
of finding a job is 
finding one accessible 
through public 
transportation. With 
no car and no flexible 
income to afford 
ride-share apps 
or taxis, formerly 
incarcerated people 
depend on buses, 
trains, bicycles, or 
walking to get to and 
from work.


Like Robinson, he is employed at EMERGE, a 
self-described “self-sufficient social enterprise com­
mitted to assisting formerly incarcerated people 
successfully integrate back into their families and 
communities.” They have a variety of programs for 
formerly incarcerated people to get started, includ­
ing a Transitional Employment Program, peer-
to-peer group meetings called Real Talk, and a 
Trauma Informed Men’s Group. In their Transitional 
Employment Program, participants earn at least $15 
an hour, while working up to twenty-four hours 
a week in construction, landscaping, and property 
management. The other sixteen hours of the work 
week are reserved for support programs.


There are six supervisors at EMERGE, all of whom 
have been through EMERGE’s programs and have 
experience being formerly incarcerated. EMERGE 
Executive Director Alden Woodcock calls them “the 
heart and soul of the organization,” noting their roles 
teaching crewmembers, communicating 
with staff, operating equipment, and car­
ing for the organization’s tools, vehicles,
and equipment.


In the mornings, participants arrive 
at EMERGE’s headquarters at 830 Grand 
Avenue—on a bus line—and from there 
they split up and drive to different worksites 
or work from the headquarters. EMERGE 
supports their participants throughout the 
process of securing documents, bus passes, 
and licenses. They helped Ramsay get a bus 
pass and Robinson secure his permit.


Ramsay found out about EMERGE at 
a job fair. There were construction hats 
lined up on a table and some people in 
discussion around it. He walked over and 
started up a conversation. “They heard my 
story and wanted to see better for me and 
I’ve been there ever since,” Ramsays says. 
“Everything that I need to really navigate 
in society EMERGE has helped me to get.”


Ramsay is now one of the supervi­
sors at EMERGE, many of whom drive 
newer employees to their job assign­
ments. Supervisors that cannot drive 
stay at the EMERGE building or support in other 
ways instead. Ramsay sometimes feels “discour­
aged” because he cannot help the team by driving.


Currently, Ramsay is working on securing his 
Social Security card in order to apply for a state iden­
tification card, and eventually a driver’s license.


Ramsay wakes up around 4 a.m. and starts his 
day with a prayer before getting ready for it. By 6 a.m., 
he’s off on the ten-minute walk from his West Haven 
home to the bus stop. He leaves the house early to 
give himself time in case the bus is early. Ramsay 
takes the 265 to the New Haven Green, a ten to fif­
teen minute ride, and then walks another thirteen 
minutes to EMERGE’s headquarters. He is a supervisor 
now, and makes sure to be there before 7 a.m. The 
total commute takes about forty-five minutes.


If Ramsay had a car, the commute would be 
about fifteen minutes. But in the year since he was 


immy Robinson is learning how to use 
the Uber app in Claire’s Corner Copia. 
Dressed in a newsboy cap, a pink jacket, and 
a plaid button-down, he looks at his phone 
skeptically. His friend Annie Nisenson 
managed to secure him a $100 voucher for the app, 
and she leans over his shoulder to show him how 
to navigate it. Apps like Uber are new to Robinson; 
in fact, most are new to him. Robinson was serv­
ing life without parole before an unexpected pardon 
culminated with his release in 2021. He recalls the 
length of his incarceration exactly: forty years, seven 
months and two hours.


Robinson is used to taking the bus to work each 
morning. His bus is supposed to come at ten minutes 
to six. Sometimes the bus comes early, sometimes 
late, Robinson says. But he tries to make it to the 
bus stop at a good time for him to arrive at work on 
time no matter what—he works at EMERGE, an orga­
nization that supports clients through a 
variety of reintegration programs post-in­
carceration, as a shop manager.


Instead of using tools like the CT 
Transit app to support him in navigating 
the bus system, he has learned by mem­
orization and trial-and-error. He knows 
the phone number to call about bus status, 
and does so when necessary.


Robinson, however, will soon have no 
need for the Uber or CT Transit app. In 
October 2022, he was able to secure his 
learner’s permit. He’s preparing for his road 
test so he can finally receive his license.


His license will be a badge of honor, 
an accomplishment that many people in 
the process of reintegration struggle to 
acquire. Connecticut’s most recently avail­
able data from the National Institute of 
Corrections suggests that as of December 
31, 2019, 36,475 residents are on probation 
and 3,651 are under parole. For most of 
these residents, transportation—every­
thing from navigating public transport 
to securing a license—is a major barrier
to reintegration.


W
hen Andrew Ramsay began his sentence,
it was 1991. When he came back home, it was 2021.
Since returning, Ramsay has had to learn how 
to navigate public transportation in New Haven. 
Ramsay noted that his family has helped him, but 
that he initially depended on Uber so as not to “dis­
rupt” their lives. He stopped using Uber because 
the app’s surge pricing left a dent in his paychecks. 
Currently, he switches between public transportation 
and having a friend drive him.


“Everything is all brand new, so it’s like I’m 
a baby. I’m starting all over again,” Ramsay says. 
He speaks eloquently about the difficult pro­
cess of securing the required documents to 
acquire a license, emphasizing that he keeps faith
and patience.


“I pay my taxes. I’m 
working. I’m doing 
all these things.
And to this day, I’m 
still struggling 
right now to get my 
documentation,” 
Ramsay says. This 
documentation is 
not just essential for 
transportation—
identification is often 
required to apply for 
housing, banking, 
and healthcare.


It can be incredibly difficult to get a job 
post-incarceration, especially with the increase in 
national unemployment since the start of the COVID-
19 pandemic, not to mention the usual obstacles for 
formerly-incarcerated people—employer prejudice, 
lack of educational degrees, and a lack of the docu­
mentation necessary to be added to someone’s pay­
roll, for example.


The court’s expectation for formerly incarcerated 
people is to integrate immediately, requiring weekly 
proof of job searches to be sent to their probation 
officers, noted Hannah Duncan, the Curtis-Liman 
fellow at Yale Law School’s Arthur Liman Center for 
Public Interest Law. This creates pressure to accept 
any offer at all—even if the job is far away or has odd 
hours. Duncan herself has managed cli­
ents who commute for hours to get to and 
from their job.


In the federal system, supervised 
release or probation can be part of a sen­
tence, and those under these must still 
report to a probation officer. Violating 
conditions of their release from custody 
as part of their probation or supervised 
release can mean you get sent back to 
jail—full-time employment is often 
a condition of release from custody, 
Duncan says. Full-time employment 
being a condition often leads to accepting 
the first job offer you get. On top of this, 
it is immensely frowned upon to reject 
offers in the face of so many job applica­
tion rejections.


On top of the burden of finding a job 
is finding one accessible through pub­
lic transportation. With no car and no 
flexible income to afford ride-share apps 
or taxis, formerly incarcerated people 
depend on buses, trains, bicycles, or walk­
ing to get to and from work. 


The New Haven bus system is run by 
the Connecticut Department of Transportation, and 
is free to ride for now, as the state legislature recently 
extended a free bus policy until April. Ramsay 
describes the bus system as “O.K.” The buses can be 
inconsistent, so he opts for the walk from the New 
Haven Green to EMERGE.


Unless people get jobs on a bus line, they need a 
car. But, for the formerly incarcerated, getting a car is 
painfully difficult.


T
he majority of Connecticut residents—
more than three fourths—drive alone to 
work, but formerly incarcerated people struggle 
not only to secure a car, but also a permit, license,
and registration. 


Much of this struggle boils down to the same 
thing: applicants need documents that people who 
have not been away from home for prolonged peri­
ods of time tend not to have. And they cost money 
to get.


In order to secure an identification from the state 
of Connecticut, applicants must show three catego­
ries of documents: proof of identity, proof of a Social 
Security number, and proof of Connecticut residency. 
Proof of identity should include at least one 
“primary document.” For U.S.-born citizens, “primary 
documents” must be a birth certificate or a passport. 
Alden Woodcock, EMERGE’s Executive Director, 
notes that unless a family member saves your Social 
Security card and birth certificate for you while incar­
cerated, it is incredibly difficult to secure a state-issued 
identification card. According to Connecticut 211, a 
human and social services resource, personal docu­
ments obtained during intake or incarceration are 
stored in “a secure location” at each correctional facility.


Nonetheless, Robinson notes that there is a 
lot of “poor management” and that his 
Social Security card was lost during his 
incarceration. 


Even if a family member is able to 
hold onto your documents, this might 
not be enough, depending on the length 
of the sentence. Illness, death, and other 
unprecedented factors can affect whether 
family or friends have been able to hold 
onto them—the longer the sentence, the 
older parents and family members get 
and the more likely illness or death has 
affected them.


For Ramsay, who is a U.S. citizen but 
was born in Jamaica, the process of secur­
ing a birth certificate was even harder. His 
mother formerly had his documentation, 
but she passed away during his sentence 
and his documents were lost. Ramsay has 
been making lots of phone calls and send­
ing lots of emails to gather the documents 
he needs to prove that he is a U.S. citizen.


“I pay my taxes. I’m working. I’m 
doing all these things. And to this day, 
I’m still struggling right now to get my 
documentation,” Ramsay says. This doc­
umentation is not just essential for transportation 
identification is often required to apply for housing, 
banking, and healthcare.


To request a birth certificate, applicants must go 
to the town vital records where they were born, the 
town of their mother’s residence at the time of birth, 
or the State Vital Records Office. In order to request 
it, they must fill out an application and mail it, along 
with a government-issued photo identification, and a 
payment of $30 per copy. 


In Ramsay’s case, he had to contact the Jamaican 
government and pay for his birth certificate to be 
sent to Connecticut. So far, this is all he has been 
able to secure in order to demonstrate proof of iden­
tity and citizenship, but is still in need of his Social 
Security Card. 


Alongside a birth certificate as primary doc­
umentation, you can show a passport at the DMV. 



**Title: Reintegration Roadblocks**
**Author: Ángela S. Pérez Aguilar**
**Page number(s): 19-20**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
To get both 
these pieces of 
identification, you 
run into circularities 
and dead ends.
If applicants want 
to recall a birth 
certificate, they need 
an identification. 
If they want an 
identification card, 
they need a birth 
certificate. But what 
are applicants meant 
to do when they are 
starting over?


Similar problems occur with this option—pass­
ports, which expire ten years after being issued, are 
no longer valid for many leaving incarceration. And 
to apply for one, applicants must show a birth cer­
tificate, proof of identity, and pay the required fees 
(which consist of a $130 application fee and a $35 
“execution fee”).
To get both these pieces of identification, you 
run into circularities and dead ends. If applicants 
want to recall a birth certificate, they need an iden­
tification. If they want an identification card, they 
need a birth certificate. But what are applicants 
meant to do when they are starting over?


The second category of documentation that 
applicants are required to show at the DMV is proof 
of Social Security. This can be in the form of a 
Social Security card, or specific tax forms. 
Tax forms, however, require consistent 
employment that not all formerly incar­
cerated people have. They are also usually 
given to employees in January to denote 
the payments of the year before; depend­
ing on when they begin work, this could 
leave applicants up to a year with no 
identification. 
Ramsay still has his Social Security 
number, but this is not enough for the 
DMV—they want the physical card. This 
can be another dead end: in order to request 
a Social Security card replacement from 
the Social Security Administration, appli­
cants are asked to show a driver’s license.
It’s circular. 
Ramsay has been unable to acquire 
his Social Security card so far. Robinson 
notes that the pandemic made it more 
difficult to secure his own card, as he had 
to make routine calls to explain his situa­
tion instead of going to the offices directly 
and receiving guidance.


For proof of residency, there must 
be two pieces of mail from two separate 
senders. This means that people experi­
encing housing insecurity face additional 
barriers.


Ramsay is still fighting to get his 
identification and Social Security card; he 
has depended on EMERGE’s assistance throughout the 
process. He gets little help from his probation officer. 
The State of Connecticut’s Judicial Branch defines 
the role of probation officers as responsible for pro­
viding “intake, assessment, referral, and supervision 
services to [the] sentenced individual.” This notably 
includes check-ins to ensure that probationers are 
making progress in their re-integration. Despite 
this, Ramsay’s probation officer has told Ramsay that 
securing his documentation is not within the scope 
of their work, emphasizing to Ramsay that the offi­
cer’s role is to come to Ramsay’s house or office, take 
urinalyses, and make sure he has a job.
“It’s easy to say ‘You know what? Eff this.’ and 
go back to what we know,” Ramsay says. “And that’s 
where the problem comes in . . . You go through a lot 
of hurdles, but I just try to stay faithful.”


To secure a license, they have to navigate the 
plethora of documents and applications to secure 
their documentation, pay all the required costs, 
acclimate to life post-incarceration, abide by their 
probation officer’s requirements, and work towards 
financial stability in the process. If all of this sounds 
confusing, that’s because it is. 
There are barriers for people post-incarceration 
who’ve held driver’s licenses in the past, too: incar­
ceration usually implies driver’s license suspension. 
In order to retain the license, there is a required 
restoration fee of $175. If there are taxes 
owed on a vehicle under the applicant’s 
name, then the taxes or tickets must be 
paid off, too, before the driver’s license 
can be restored. 
Once those are all paid, driving priv­
ileges are restored, meaning it becomes 
possible to apply for a learner’s permit. 
Even if someone has formerly held a 
license, they are required to re-acquire 
a permit, with the restriction that the 
holder can only drive when accompanied 
by someone twenty years or older who 
has held a license without suspension for 
more than four consecutive years. After 
ninety days with a permit, applications 
must pass a vision test and a twenty-five-
question knowledge test, and take an 
eight-hour Safe Driving Practices Course. 
Failure of the vision or knowledge tests 
require applicants to reschedule the tests 
online and pay the fees once again. These 
include a $40 testing fee (that includes 
all the tests) and a $19 fee for the learn­
er’s permit itself. The fee for a non-driver 
state identification is $28. This process can 
be long and expensive.


Not only are the abundance of fees a 
barrier to many, testees need to provide 
their own vehicle for the driver’s exam 
and potentially miss work for the per­
mit test, Safe Driving Practices Course, and driv­
er’s test. Availability for appointments range from 7 
a.m. to 6 p.m. on weekdays, with some available slots 
on Saturdays.


Robinson had to wait almost a year to get his 
Social Security card. His documentation was lost 
during his sentence, although he is not sure why. 
Through work with the Parole Project in Louisiana, 
where he was incarcerated, and EMERGE in New 
Haven, he has managed to secure his Social Security 
card, birth certificate, and, as of October, his learn­
er’s permit. Following his release, Robinson moved 
to New Haven to support his mother, with whom 
he currently lives. He notes that securing a Social 
Security card was particularly difficult as a result of 
the pandemic, since he could not go to the offices 
and work out what was necessary. Instead, he fielded 
calls and emails until he was able to secure it.


Robinson had to return on three separate occa­
sions to the DMV before they granted him a learner’s 
permit. Once, they refused him because the letter he 
showed did not have a date on it.
“You see so many people,” Robinson says. “They 
become heartbroken because they go to get their 
license and many fail time and time again. And it’s 
like it’s very next door to being impossible.”


In total, fees can amount to about $348, including 
testing, document copies, restoration fees, and the 
combined cost of securing both a permit and license. 
Applicants also have to pay the fees for each attempt 
if they fail, a burden for those with inconsistent or 
low-paying work.
“Those are barriers that you have to go through, 
but you got to go through them because you’re try­
ing to dismiss catching the bus and being to work 
on time,” Robinson says. “You don’t have 
a lot of support. You don’t have a lot of 
help . . . Just trial and error, you know, that’s 
how you learn the system.”


Robinson finally secured his permit 
on October 10, 2022, about a year after his 
release. 
“It’s wonderful,” Robinson says. “I’ve 
gotten a job and through EMERGE and 
been promoted from a crew member to a 
shop manager. Now I’m real close to get­
ting my driver’s license . . . And I’m not the 
only one.”


A
s a result of this long and diffi­
cult process, many people reintegrat­
ing post-incarceration drive without a 
license, according to Liman Fellow and 
lawyer Hannah Duncan. Throughout 
her work in public interest law, she has 
been informed of cases where individuals 
violate parole, probation, or supervised 
release in order to drive out of necessity.
“It’s just so much easier,” Woodcock, 
EMERGE’s Executive Director, says. “Your 
chances of being pulled over are pretty slim, but if 
you do get pulled over without a license, and you’re 
on parole, you can get violated and sent back to jail. 
So that’s the risk that you run.” 
The problem does not end once a license is 
secured. Now comes the process of buying and reg­
istering a car.


Getting a car alone is a costly process. In the 
last two years, used-car prices have increased dra­
matically—used car prices are currently 43 percent 
higher nationally than the typical depreciation rates. 
Additionally, securing a loan to pay for a car is sig­
nificantly harder for someone with both a criminal 
history and little to no credit history. 
In order to register a car, identification in the 
form of a driver’s license or passport must be pro­
vided, along with proof of ownership in the form of 
a title or former owner registration. If the vehicle is 
from another state, there are different requirements.


The DMV also requires proof of Connecticut car 
insurance and a Bill of Sale, a document with vehicle, 
buyer, and seller information, as well as the selling 
price and date of the vehicle. These can be drafted 
independently as long as they include all the nec­
essary information. Car insurance in Connecticut 
can cost upwards of $800 per car, but drivers with 
a driving record or violation are charged more—
sometimes upwards of $2,000. Despite car insur­
ance being mandatory in most states, companies can 
still deny applicants due to many factors, including 
credit history, type of vehicle, financial history and 
driving record.


The DMV charges fees for car registration, in 
addition to the insurance required for registra­
tion. To register a regular passenger car, the fees
total $225.


Ramsay notes that a license may seem like 
“a small thing, but it’s a big thing at 
the end of the day.” He echoes that 
the difficulty of the process can be 
inhibiting to many who are trying
to reintegrate. 
While only 10 percent of Connecticut 
residents are Black and 15 percent are 
Hispanic, 40 percent of incarcerated peo­
ple in Connecticut are Black and 25 per­
cent of them are Hispanic. As a result, 
these re-entry costs largely impact people 
of color disproportionately. 
Things like state identifications and 
driver’s licenses are determined by state 
and federal requirements, meaning local 
government has little bearing on these 
requirements. New Haven’s main contri­
bution to people reintegrating is through 
workarounds to getting a driver’s license: 
the public transit system and continued 
development of bike lanes. In summer 
of 2022, New Haven announced its Safe 
Routes for All Plan, which hopes to move 
away from a city transportation system 
that is based around cars, by enhancing the 
infrastructure of biking, walking, and pub­
lic transit in the city. 
Woodcock, EMERGE’s Executive Director, notes 
that most formerly incarcerated people he is aware 
of through EMERGE take public transportation 
or depend on others for car rides, while a smaller 
amount bike or walk. 
Ramsay continues to gather the necessary doc­
uments to get his permit soon. Robinson will soon 
be scheduling his first attempt at his road test since 
passing the written test for a driver’s license.
“If you don’t have this documentation, [it’s easy 
to] go back to what you know,” Ramsay says. “But 
that wasn’t my case. I said, ‘You know what? I’m just 
gonna still take it one day at a time.’” ∎
Ángela S. Pérez Aguilar is a junior
in Berkeley College. 


**Title: “Romancing the Russian Revolution: Anna Strunsky, William English Walling,  and the Red Wedding”**
**Author:  Judaic Studies Program, Jewish History Colloquium, Dr. Ashley Walters**
**Page number(s): 21**

january 2023
“Romancing the Russian 
Revolution: Anna 
Strunsky, William 
English Walling,  
and the Red Wedding” 
Judaic Studies Program
Jewish History Colloquium 
presents 
Dr. Ashley Walters 
Assistant Professor of Jewish Studies, College of Charleston 
Wednesday, April 12, 2023 @ 12:00PM 
STERLING MEMORIAL LIBRAY 
JUDAICA COLLECTION READING ROOM 
(120 High Street, 3rd Floor, Room 335B)
For additional information—contact Renee Reed at renee.reed@yale.edu 
Ashley Walters is an Assistant Professor of Jewish Studies and Director of the Pearlstine/
Lipov Center for Southern Jewish Culture at the College of Charleston. Her research 
interests include American and East European Jewish history, Jews and American culture, 
the history of leftist political movements, and Jews in the American South. She is currently 
working on a book manuscript titled, Intimate Radicals: East European Jewish Women 
and Progressive American Desires. She is also co-editing and contributing to a volume 
titled, Reframing Jewish American Literary History through Women’s Writing. 



**Title: The Cost to Ride**
**Author: Jesse Goodman**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Students say the cost of an ambulance is preventing them from
seeking necessary emergency care. Is Yale paying attention?

Will Caraccio ’25 was getting ready for 
bed one night in October, 2022, when 
he got a text that his friend and for­
mer roommate, Kyle Hovannesian ’25, 
was drunk. Really drunk.

The news was alarming, but not totally sur­
prising. Will and Kyle had been roommates 
throughout their first year. Halloween night was 
the first time Kyle needed an ambulance. Will 
came home around one in the morning to find 
vomit all over the room, a third of a handle of 
vodka gone, and Kyle, nearly unresponsive, unable 
to walk by himself––all the warning signs of a 
potential overdose he was taught to look for in 
Yale’s safety training. “The first time I saw it, I was 
terrified. I was like, this kid is going to die,” Will 
said. “It’s kind of traumatizing.”

That night, Will followed protocol. He 
called 911, listened for sirens, and talked with the 
paramedics as they loaded Kyle into the back 
of the ambulance. Will passed it off as a typi­
cal “Welcome to Yale” moment, a rite of passage 
nearly all college first years experience. But the 
situation repeated itself; once, and then again. 
Will kept calling for help, listening for the ambu­
lance to pull up outside the gates of Old Campus, 
watching the paramedics wheel his friend out
on a gurney.

As harrowing as the ambulance trips and 
overnight hospitalizations may have been for 
Kyle, both he and Will remember the problems 
really starting after Kyle left the hospital. Kyle 
would get a bill from the ambulance company 
that promised to suck up all the money he’d been 
saving up from his student job at––of all places––
Yale Health. It meant signing up for more shifts 
at work, calculating how much credit he could 
afford to spend, and cutting down on expenses, 
just to afford the following semester’s tuition. “I’m 
thinking, ‘there goes my entire savings,’” Kyle 
said. “[It] kind of starts a chain reaction that takes 
over my life.” Eventually, Kyle learned calling an 
ambulance was virtually out of the question.

“His life could be in jeopardy, or at least his 
health could be in jeopardy, whether or not it kills 
him. But at the same time he’s begging me, plead­
ing with me not to call,” Will said. “So I don’t 
know what to do. I genuinely think if I were to 
call the ambulance every time . . . he would have 
dropped out.”

So when Will got that text in October of 
2022, he knew the drill. It turned out a scared 
friend who worried for Kyle’s safety had already 
called 911, and an ambulance was on the way. Will 
sprang into action. “What I did essentially was to 
say, ‘I know you don’t want to go in the ambulance. 
You need to put on a really good performance for 
me,’” he said.

Will led Kyle to bed and turned off the lights. 
When the paramedics showed up, he lied and 
told them Kyle was fine; he was in bed, sleeping 
it off. When they demanded to see him anyway, 
Will told them to wait. He crept into the room 
and tried to prepare Kyle as best he could. He 
knew that the paramedics would ask Kyle some 
questions; he’d seen it enough times before to 
get the gist: Where are you? How old are you? How 
much money is seven quarters? Kyle, for his part, 
was terrified. He wouldn’t remember anything 
from that night, except this encounter with the 
paramedics. He knew if he failed to convince 
them he was okay, they would make him go to 
the hospital, and he’d get slammed with another 
bill. “I was telling myself, ‘O.K., sit up straight, 
speak slow, clear, annunciate’ . . . It was very high 
pressure,” Kyle said. Both played their part well. 
With Will’s help, and the calming influence of 
the darkened room, they managed to persuade 
the paramedics to leave.


Representatives at Yale Health and the Yale 
Dean’s Office have told me they haven’t heard that 
ambulance bills present an obstacle to seeking 
medical attention, or have claimed outright that 
they do not. But students appear to disagree. Over 
the last six months, I spoke with twenty-one cur­
rent and recently-graduated Yale students about 
experiences in which they personally hesitated 
to call for an ambulance, or witnessed someone 
hesitating to call one. Some of them had taken 
an ambulance trip at Yale already, and preferred 
to risk their health rather than experience it again. 
Others had heard what it would cost them or 
their friends, and figured it was safer to handle 
the situation on their 
own. These students 
spoke of other concerns 
that contributed to their 
hesitation, but one fac­
tor was far and away the 
most common and sig­
nificant: the bill.

“I remember my 
friend was really drunk 
and really sick and was 
being wheeled out to 
the people that came 
with the stretchers,” said K. “And she was asking 
me, ‘Am I going to have to pay for this?’...That’s 
not something that you should be thinking about 
if you’re in that state.” 

The dilemma of whether to call an ambulance 
during a true emergency, these students told me, is 
a threat to students’ mental and physical well-be­
ing, as well as their financial security. Many of 
these students claim that Yale has not meaning­
fully addressed or acknowledged the issue, leading 
them to doubt whether the University is uphold­
ing its fundamental responsibility to ensure the 
safety of its students. 

DISCLAIMER
SECTION 1
Four students asked to be referred to by their 
first initial due to discomfort speaking publicly 
about their experiences consuming alcohol.



**Title: THE COST TO RIDE**
**Author: The New Journal**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Page 25 of 56
THE COST TO RIDE
The New Journal
Outside the Yale New Haven Hospital emergency room.
Anna Tender was biking by the Peabody museum on Whitney 
Street when she fell off her bike and broke her wrist. A passerby 
noticed Anna laying on the ground, her skin flush pale, her hand 
sticking out in entirely the wrong direction, and decided to call 
an ambulance. But Anna was a junior, and by that time she’d 
heard a lot of stories from people who’d had to go to the hospital 
for alcohol emergencies. She knew what she might have to pay 
for it. “While I was laying there with my wrist broken, I was like, 
‘can you please not call 911?’” Anna said. “I just really did not want 
to pay for an ambulance ride.” When the ambulance showed up, 
Anna declined to get in, signing the refusal of service waiver with 
her nondominant hand. She took a seat by the Peabody, and 
waited fifteen minutes for a friend to come pick her up and drive 
her to the emergency room. “Thinking back on it, it’s wild that that 
was the thing that I was really worried about.”


“If you talk to any student, they’d agree that 
[ambulances] should be free,” Kyle told me. 
“And Yale knows it’s a problem, how could they 
not?...I’m sure they realize this is putting a finan­
cial burden on students. They’d just rather put the 
burden on me than pay for it themselves.
Most administrators I reached out to 
declined or did not respond to requests for com­
ment regarding the problems these twenty-one 
students described. Of the few administrators 
from whom I was able to obtain statements, 
none expressed prior awareness of the full scope 
of the issue.
THE ADMINISTRATION
“I think there definitely is a hesitation to call 
ambulances around here because of
the prohibitive cost . . . I would say that probably 
everyone at Yale, specifically people at
Yale who tend to go to events with alcohol or 
parties, probably knows someone who’s had 
to pay for an ambulance.” ANNA TENDER ’23
W
hen I was a first year, I learned quickly from 
friends and upperclassmen not to call an 
ambulance unless the situation was seriously 
life-threatening. It was part of my informal 
induction process to Yale, alongside how to sneak 
into the dining hall, or cram for my L1 final. In 
my experience as an undergraduate, Yale students 
who don’t hear the warning at first hear it eventu­
ally, and students who don’t hear it early enough 
often learn through painful experience. 
“I think that’s something that was drilled into 
me. Never call an ambulance because you will be 
charged like $1000 . . . I think it’s just like common 
knowledge,” said R.
High-ranking administrators at Yale, however, 
appear not to know this unwritten rule among 
Yale students. Dr. Jennifer McCarthy, Chief 
Medical Officer of Yale Health, told me she’d 
never looked into it. “Until you reached out to me, 
I hadn’t really thought of [cost] as an issue that 
would preclude people from calling,” she told me.
Shaun Heffernon, a prominent member 
of the Board of Advisors for Yale Emergency 
Medical Services (YEMS), and EMT instructor 
at Yale, said that, to his knowledge, worry about 
ambulance fees has never put a student at physical 
risk, nor have there been any internal discussions 
at YEMS about the problem of ambulance billing.
I reached out to many members of the 
Dean’s Office, including all fourteen residen­
tial college deans, Dean of Yale College Pericles 
Lewis, and Marichal Gentry, former Dean of 
Student Affairs and one of the founders of Yale’s 
Alcohol and Other Drugs Harm Reduction 
Initiative (AODHRI, pronounced “Audrey”). All 
either didn’t respond to requests for comment or 
redirected me to current Dean of Student Affairs, 
Melanie Boyd. Dean Boyd sent the following 
statement, after which she did not respond to
subsequent questions:
“I understand that money can be a worry, 
but many students nevertheless call for help in 
life-and-death situations when they think their 
friends’ lives are at risk.” Dean Boyd did not com­
ment on the high burden of ambulance payments, 
or elaborate on medical situations that were not 
life-and-death.
Hannah Peck, Assistant Dean of Student 
Affairs, echoed Dean Boyd’s comments. “When 
we’ve looked into this issue in the past, we’ve 
heard from students that in the moment of an 
emergency, worry about costs does not deter 
them from getting help for their friends.” She 
did not respond to follow-up questions about the 
collection of those students’ perspectives.
THE COST OF CALLING
“Unless it’s like a life or death scenario and I
know that the person is going to die if they don’t
call an ambulance, then I would feel like my 
responsibility would be to provide as much non-
medical support as I could without calling an 
ambulance.” LUCY SANTIAGO ’24
M
ost of the Yale policy makers say that in a 
medical emergency, there should be no hesi­
tation in calling an ambulance. Safety comes first,
finances second. 
“As a physician and as a human,” Dr. 
McCarthy said, “you want them to call and deal 
with things like finance later.”
Yale does have a standard procedure for 
alcohol emergencies. AODHRI is a Yale program 
designed to minimize the “physical, psycholog­
ical, academic, and social” harm of alcohol and 
drug consumption on 
campus. The AODHRI 
website urges students 
to seek medical help 
when they’re alarmed 
by their friends’ condi­
tion. They offer a page 
of emergency numbers 
to call; at the top of the 
list is the Yale Police. 
Yale 
trains 
incom­
ing first years to call a 
First-Year 
Counselor 
(FroCo) or to call 911 
when they feel unsure what to do, and instructs 
FroCos to do the same for their first year stu­
dents. “Be willing to overreact to protect some­
one,” AODHRI admonishes.
But not all students heed this advice, espe­
cially if the situation involves alcohol. Josie Steuer 
Page 26 of 56
SECTION 3
Hannah Peck, Assistant Dean 
of Student Affairs, echoed Dean 
Boyd’s comments. “When we’ve 
looked into this issue in the past, 
we’ve heard from students that in 
the moment of an emergency, worry 
about costs does not deter them 
from getting help for their friends.”
SECTION 2



Ingall ’24, told me there are no circumstances in 
which she would call an ambulance for a drunk 
friend, “because it’s gonna cost ten bajillion dol­
lars.” Another student, A., said she’s been a lot 
more careful since an incident in which she had 
to pay an inordinate price for an emergency call. 
“Afterward, I told all my friends, ‘Never call an 
ambulance, just sleep it 
off, it’s not worth the 
cost.’ . . . It’s the attitude 
of many Yale students, 
and it’s so dangerous.”
It may be hard at 
first to understand why 
someone would risk 
their health. But in the 
experience of some stu­
dents who’ve had to cope with the aftereffects of 
a hospital stay, the “safety first” approach has cre­
ated financial burdens that outweigh the health 
risks. Some students who have taken an ambu­
lance, or know someone who has, say they will 
not call 911 without serious thought, no matter 
the potential danger.
“If I had known [about the cost], I would 
have begged my friends not to call, even when 
getting help may have been in my best interest,” 
said A.
“The financial strain that this put on me was 
very intense,” said Lillian Zhou ’24. “The insanely 
high price makes me not want to call [an ambu­
lance], for other people or myself.”
Tony Potchernikov ’24 remembers his ambu­
lance bill costing between $500 and $800, which 
meant that he had to extend credit payments to 
afford a plane ticket home at the beginning of 
the pandemic in 2020. “I remember thinking, ‘I 
have no idea what the hell I’m going to do,’” he 
said. It took Lillian the entire semester to earn the 
funds to pay back the $994 she owed, using a lot 
of savings from previous jobs. Josie Steuer Ingall 
contested her bill with her dad’s private insurance 
and was able to get it reduced from around $500 
to $200, which meant she didn’t have to skimp 
on things like groceries and personal expenses. “I 
legitimately would have been fucked,” she told me. 
For students who can’t afford to pay, a bill in 
their online health portal means potentially hav­
ing to go to their parents for help. Even if they 
can afford the cost on their own, some portion 
of the charge is likely to show up on their par­
ents’ insurance bill, alerting them to their child’s 
excessive drinking. For students who come from 
families that do not tolerate underage drinking, 
the shame of confessing to a disapproving family 
may be as painful as emptying their own pockets. 
“The first thing I was worried about was hav­
ing to tell my parents about the whole situation.” 
said Lillian. “Probably second to the how-am-I-
going-to-pay-all-of-this, is, this means I have to 
get my parents involved.”
It can be challenging for students to return to 
school and try to reinstitute a sense of normalcy 
with all this hanging over their heads. “The psy­
chic stress of . . . getting that bill was like being 
punched in the stomach,” Josie told me. A few 
students said they had trouble focusing on their 
classes after receiving their bills, preoccupied with 
the stress of debt and effort of earning the money 
back. “It’s hell,” Kyle said.
That’s a lot on the line for a single night of 
drinking. So when members of the administra­
tion recommend that students seek medical help 
when they feel their health is in danger, without 
regard to cost, it can feel ingenuous. 
“For some people, [the bill] is a drop in the 
bucket,” said Anna Tender ’23. “For other people, 
that’s an entire month’s worth of their rent.”
LET’S TALK ABOUT 
INSURANCE
“If you have an emergency situation, you’re 
calling 911 wherever you are and who’s
available is going to show up. So ideas like 
disclosing prices up front or giving people the 
opportunity to shop and compare don’t work 
in the ambulance space.” MADELINE O’BRIEN, 
RESEARCH FELLOW AT GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY’S 
CENTER ON HEALTH INSURANCE REFORMS
E
very undergraduate at Yale has some form 
of health insurance––it’s a requirement for 
enrollment. Why, then, are students claiming to 
pay hundreds or even thousands of dollars for a 
five minute ambulance ride?
Even before insurance kicks in, the final cost 
of an ambulance bill can be nearly impossible 
to predict. It varies by the type of care provided, 
the mileage driven, and a host of other factors. 
However, many students I spoke with brought up 
the same number as a kind of benchmark for the 
average ambulance rate: $1000. 
Charlotte Murphy ’23, shared the view of 
many students I spoke to: “If I can help myself, 
and have a friend monitor me, it’s not ideal, but 
it’s better than paying a thousand dollars.” 
One thousand dollars, before insurance, is 
on the low end for an ambulance ride. American 
Medical Response (AMR)––the designated ambu­
lance service for New Haven, and one of the larg­
est in the country––charges between $1005 and 
$2221, depending on the kind of life support they 
provide, and excluding additional fees. 
A student with non-Yale insurance that 
covers their emergency transport will likely still 
need to pay some portion of this charge. There’s 
the copay: the flat rate every patient is required 
to pay for a service––and the deductible: the 
amount a patient is responsible for paying each 
year before insurance starts chipping in. This 
means that students who need an ambulance in 
Page 27 of 56
SECTION 4
The only bulletproof way to 
avoid a surprise bill: don’t call an 
ambulance in the first place. It 
would seem this is the route many 
Yale students opt for.



**Title: THE COST TO RIDE**
**Author: The New Journal**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Stickers cover a bulletin board at the YNHH.
In the second semester of her first year, Abbey Kim called an 
ambulance for a friend who was clearly too drunk to look after, 
and subsequently learned how much money an ambulance 
ride could cost. So when the situation came up again later that 
year—when Abbey’s friend got dangerously drunk, to the point 
of needing an IV in the hospital—she postponed calling 911 for 
two hours. “I don’t want to impose the cost of an ambulance 
on someone without it actually being dire, if that could be a 
serious thing for them,” Abbey said. Another time, Abbey and her 
friends were up until 6 in the morning taking care of an extremely 
intoxicated friend, rather than calling for help. “She was very, 
very drunk and it was shocking to see because she just is not 
someone who gets sick easily,” Abbey told me. “At that point, 
everyone knew that it cost money to call an ambulance….And so 
I think people just followed the ‘hopefully it’ll pass’ strategy.” Now, 
Abbey and her friends have established a plan of action for each 
of them, should someone require an ambulance. “The…situation 
forced us to have conversations while sober about what we 
would want to happen to us if we got too drunk,” Abbey said.  
STORY 2


<br>

A street sign points toward Yale New Haven Hospital.


**Page number(s): 29**

When Lillian Zhou had too much to drink one Friday night 
in February, 2022—exhibiting the warning signs for over-
intoxication she’d learned from Yale alcohol safety officers—her 
roommate decided to call the student health line. An ambulance 
showed up to take Lillian to the Yale New Haven Hospital. When 
she was released early the following morning, with a nasty hang-
over and the advice to take an Uber home, she didn’t know that 
a month later she would be hit with a nearly $1,000 ambulance 
bill. “I was not in a situation to understand what level of bill I was 
getting myself into, or that my insurance wasn’t going to cover it,” 
she said. It took her months to finally pay it off. She had to beg her 
parents for money, though it’s very uncomfortable to talk about 
alcohol-related matters with her family (they offered to pay a 
small portion of the bill). She tried to get help from Yale and talked 
with her FroCo, Yale Health, and the Yale New Haven Hospital, but 
wasn’t able to recoup any money. “I found it preoccupied me a fair 
bit for most of that semester.” Lillian said. “It was a very different 
kind of stress than you feel normally in college, and one that I 
obviously don’t think it’s fair to be subjected to.”
STORY 3



**Page number(s): 30**

January are likely footing the entire bill, while 
those who wait until December might get 
off easier. Often the costliest factor is the co-
insurance, or the percentage of the bill that the 
patient is responsible for paying. All this can 
leave a fully-insured patient with hundreds or 
more to pay out-of-pocket.
Often, however, an ambulance service is not 
covered by a student’s insurance at all, which 
leaves them vulnerable to “surprise billing.” A 
surprise bill can occur when a patient inadver­
tently receives emergency treatment from an out-
of-network provider. In the case of ambulances, 
the dispatcher will almost always send whatever 
provider is available and nearby, whether or not 
they’re contracted with the patient’s health plan. 
Because patients don’t get to choose what service 
comes to get them, they have nothing to protect 
them from out-of-network billing rates. They can 
either get in whatever ambulance shows up, and 
risk having to pay an inflated bill, or refuse the 
care altogether.
A study conducted by the Kaiser Family 
Foundation (KFF), one of the nation’s leading 
sources of medical analysis and journalism, found 
that approximately 50 percent of national ground 
ambulance transports to emergency rooms ended 
in a surprise bill; another study by Health Affairs 
found that in Connecticut, that number balloons 
to 66 percent. I spoke with the lead author of the 
KFF study, Krutika Amin, who confirmed that 
ambulances result in the highest out-of-network 
billing rate of any medical service. 
Madeline 
O’Brien, 
research 
fellow 
at 
Georgetown University’s Center on Health 
Insurance Reforms, emphasized the bind that 
surprise billing puts on students. “This is a situa­
tion where students do not have choice,” she told 
me. “In the vast majority of cases, people who are 
calling an ambulance need to be in an ambulance. 
And we don’t want [them] . . . being in a situation 
where they can’t make it to the hospital or they’re 
stuck waiting in the emergency room . . . because 
they were worried about cost.”
Yale Health offers undergraduates two levels 
of insurance: Basic, and Hospitalization/Specialty 
Care. The Basic plan is free for every enrolled 
student, and does not cover the cost of ground 
ambulances. The Specialty plan (costing $2,756 
for a full term) does cover ambulances, with no 
copay. Yale Specialty is offered free of charge for 
every student on full financial aid, and is currently 
owned by 52 percent of the undergraduate body, 
according to Dr. McCarthy. The remaining 48 
percent have some other form of insurance––usu­
ally provided through their parents or guardians’ 
plans. It’s this half who are most susceptible to the 
crushing costs of ambulances. 
In January, 2022, the No Surprises Act went 
into effect, which largely protects patients from 
paying out-of-network rates for doctors and 
treatment facilities they did not get to choose. 
“Millions of hard-working Americans will no 
longer have to worry about unexpected medical 
bills,” President Biden announced in February, 
2022. But this was not entirely true. While the 
No Surprises Act kicks into action once a patient 
is in the hospital, it 
doesn’t account for the 
costs incurred on the 
drive over. In light of 
this vulnerability, ten 
states have taken pro­
active steps to pass 
some level of protec­
tion for surprise billing 
from 
ground 
ambu­
lances. Connecticut is 
not one of them.
The only bulletproof way to avoid a surprise 
bill: don’t call an ambulance in the first place. It 
would seem this is the route many Yale students 
opt for.
Two million dollars is 0.0048 
percent of Yale’s endowment; 4.7 
percent of what Yale spent on 
library acquisitions in 2018; and 
3.5 percent of what the University 
spent on athletics the same year. 
SO SOMEONE’S CALLING AN 
AMBULANCE FOR YOU. HERE’S WHAT 
TO EXPECT ON YOUR AMR BILL.
You’re awake, alert, and it’s not too serious.
You don’t look so good. It seems serious: chest 
pain, trouble breathing, an allergic reaction, loss 
of consciousness, or struck by a vehicle, perhaps.
During the ride,
They’re here but you refuse to get in.
Dispatch sends a basic life support (BLS) 
ambulance, meant for less critical injuries.
The BLS ambulance that was dispatched still 
treats you outside.
The ALS ambulance that was dispatched still 
*An emergency response is an immediate response to a 911 call or the equivalent. The 
ALS 1 level of service has a non-emergency response option, hence the distinction.
Data from “2022 and 2023 Allowable Rates by EMS Organizations,” published 
by the Connecticut Office of Emergency Medical Services. BLS versus ALS 
differentiation examples from https://www.bccrs.org/our-services/fire-rescue-ems/
frequently-asked-questions/.
Disclaimer: This chart is a simplification of the ambulance billing process meant for 
educational purposes. It leaves out many other billing categories and glosses over the 
evaluation of BLS versus ALS transport made by dispatchers.
*
BLS
Treat/Nontransport BLS
Treat/Nontransport ALS
ALS 1 EMERGENCY
ALS 2
PER MILE
$1,005.00
$249.00
$327.00
$1,630.00
$1,687.00
$27.11
Dispatch sends an advanced life support (ALS) 
ambulance. Those are staffed with at least one 
paramedic and carry life-saving medication.
During transportation, you need to be given 
multiple administrations of medication or a 
procedure like chest decompression.
You’re charged for every mile driven.



**Title: THE COST TO RIDE**
**Author: The New Journal**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Page 31 of 56
GETTING PEACE
OF MIND
“If we were to be able to expand that basic
plan to emergency coverage . . . then a student 
can have the peace of mind knowing that,
‘hey, if I need an ambulance’ or ‘hey, if my
friend needs to go to the E.R.,’ the bill is not 
something I’m going to have to worry about.”
ANDREW DU ’24, DEPUTY CHIEF OF OPERATIONS
FOR YALE EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES

W
hat could Yale do to protect its students from 
ambulance billing?
“I think the solution would be some type of 
financial assistance,” Shaun Heffernon, member 
of the Yale Emergency Medical Services board of 
advisors, told me.
Dr. McCarthy agreed. “I feel like it’s an insur­
ance question,” she said. “So the question is, should 
Yale––not Yale Health because that’s a different 
thing––should they cover ambulance transports?” 
As of the latest public disclosure, Yale has 
41.4 billion dollars in its endowment. As admin­
istrators persistently point out, spending that 
money is not as simple as writing a check. There’s 
a process required to free up money for university 
expenses. At the same time, the fact that Yale has 
more resources than all but one other educational 
institution on the planet, and more than a few 
countries, has led some students to wonder if the 
institution should not brave its own bureaucracy 
and make the funds available. 
“One trip to the emergency room is enough to 
put you in debt and wipe out your savings,” said 
Kyle. “They’re basically saying it’s O.K. for me to 
go through this, it’s ok for all these other students 
to go through this, just so they can save a buck.” 
Using some simple back-of-the-envelope cal­
culations, the amount of money required to cover 
emergency ambulance costs for students would be, 
for Yale, relatively little. The cost of an AMR ambu­
lance providing basic life support is about $1000. 
An ambulance providing Advanced Life Support 
can reach nearly $1700, not including mileage fees.
Neither Yale Health nor AMR disclosed to 
me how many ambulances are taken by Yale stu­
dents every year, but it is possible to reach a rough 
estimate by looking at a comparable institution 
that does. Brown University’s free ambulance 
program, according to publicly available data, 
receives approximately one thousand calls a year. 
Brown has about six hundred more undergradu­
ate students than Yale, so the number of rides at 
Yale College (assuming an equivalent amount of 
partying) would presumably be somewhat lower. 
But even if Yale students made exactly the same 
number of calls as Brown students; every one of 
those calls ended up in a transport; and every one 
of those transports incurred nearly the maximum 
charge of $2000, the total cost for the school 
would come out to two million dollars. 

Two million dollars is 0.0048 percent of Yale’s 
endowment; 4.7 percent of what Yale spent on 
library acquisitions in 2018; and 3.5 percent of what 
the University spent on athletics the same year. 
Presumably, if Yale were willing to reimburse 
the full bill, it would have no issue contracting 
with AMR or any other ambulance service. But 
even if Yale were unable to formally cover ambu­
lances under its Basic insurance, there are institu­
tional funds like Safety Net––a system designed 
to reimburse Yale students for unexpected funds 
related to their education––which could pay back 
the full ambulance cost directly to students. Safety 
Net representatives told me they offer “generous 
support” for high-need students who experience 
unexpected medical bills, but did not respond to 
requests for more information.


HARM REDUCTION
“I can’t imagine there’s anyone who [hasn’t 
hesitated to call an ambulance for a 
drunk friend]. I think anytime anybody seems 
too drunk, anytime anybody seems ill . . . 
whatever anybody will encounter, [they] really 
have to stop and think, should I call 911?” 
JOSIE STEUER INGALL


T
here are a myriad of reasons someone might 
need to go to the hospital––two of the students 
I talked to were involved in bike accidents, another 
experienced an allergic reaction. But overwhelm­
ingly, students told me they considered calling an 
ambulance due to acute intoxication.
On every college campus in every state in the 
country, students are going to drink. The ques­
tion is not how to prevent students from drink­
ing altogether, but how to ensure they do so safely. 
This has been Yale’s stated goal for over a decade: 
to reduce not just the physical harm of alcohol 
consumption on campus, but the financial, social, 
and mental harm as well. 
But Yale has so far made no move to address 
the prohibitive price of an ambulance. In some stu­
dents’ opinions, this oversight has not only placed 
them in danger, but violated Yale’s own stated 
intention of mitigating alcohol-related harms.
“I do think that Yale should cover ambu­
lance costs, especially considering that they 
teach freshman students to call their FroCos and 
they teach the FroCos to call Yale Health,” said
Lucy Santiago.
In addition to AODHRI, a one-stop shop for 
substance use education and resources, Yale has 
a number of other strategies to minimize the 
consequences of alcohol consumption. There are 
mandatory educational seminars during Camp 
Yale (Yale’s orientation week) to teach first year 
SECTION 6
SECTION 5



--- Page 32 ---
Page 32 of 56
students about safe drinking. There is Yale’s medi­
cal emergency policy, which ensures a student will 
not face disciplinary action if they call for medical 
attention. And there is Yale’s First Year Counselor 
(FroCo) program, which––operating with the 
the understanding that a first year student new 
to campus life is usually more vulnerable than an 
upperclassman––is designed to pair younger stu­
dents with a trusted older figure to help with the 
college transition, and in whom to confide.  
The formula Yale has worked out is intuitive. 
If they can educate their students on the danger of 
severe intoxication––thereby limiting the number 
of dangerous alcohol emergencies––and reduce 
barriers for accessing help, then students are posi­
tioned to navigate the complications of alcohol 
consumption at college with a full measure of 
protection.
But there is a gap in Yale’s harm reduction 
measures––a gap of no more than half of a mile 
or so, which separates a very drunk student from 
the safety of Yale Health or Yale New Haven 
Hospital. That half of a mile can represent hun­
dreds or even thousands of dollars; it can span 
the distance between happy parents and parents 
threatening sanctions. Most crucially, it can mea­
sure the difference between calling for emergency 
help, and braving it alone.
So long as this gap exists, some students 
believe, no combination of other Yale initiatives 
will fully protect them from the snowballing 
consequences of a single night’s binging. “It’s all 
bullshit,” said Will. “I didn’t feel like there was 
actually as many options as they say . . . and it feels 
a little bit deceitful.”
Online data from Yale’s Office of Institutional 
Research shows that 62 percent of Yale students, 
or approximately four thousand undergraduates, 
report binge drinking––that is, they consume 
four or more drinks (for women) or five or more 
drinks (for men) in a night. When someone binge 
drinks, they rapidly increase their risk of alcohol 
poisoning or alcohol-related injury, according 
to the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and 
Alcoholism. Despite this, only sixteen students 
were seen at Yale Health Acute Care in 2021 with 
the diagnosis “intoxication”.


DECISION-MAKING
“It’s like a Catch-22. If you call the ambulance, 
you’re risking completely setting him back in 
many different spheres in his life. Emotionally. 
Financially. Socially. If you don’t call, you are 
placing yourself as essentially God . . .
You [feel like] you have his life in your hands.” 
WILL CARRACIO ’25

I
n many scary medical situations, it can be 
hard to parse degrees of emergency––is this 
something I can sleep off, or is it life-threaten­
ing? This is especially true for intoxication. Two 
people who’ve had the same amount to drink, 
exhibiting the same symptoms, can suffer vastly
different consequences. 
This creates a quandary: the bystander’s 
dilemma. The psychological burden of deciding 
whether to call an ambulance for someone else––
the potential consequences of a wrong decision
––adds to the overall mental cost associated with 
ambulance billing. 
On the one hand, there may appear to be 
an imminent threat to someone’s health, or even 
their life. “When you’re scared and he’s vomiting 
or saying things that are scary and there’s adrena­
line and it’s all happening at once, you don’t have 
a clear head,” Will said. “Your mind automati­
cally goes to the worst scenario, which is this kid 
is going to die in my suite, and it’s going to be 
my fault.”
But sometimes calling for help might feel like 
the most threatening option. “I just would not 
want to put that cost on 
someone not knowing 
if they were going to 
be able to pay it,” said
How does one mea­
sure the relative value of 
these factors, pummeled 
by a whirlwind of sec­
ondary considerations––
family 
relationships, 
emotional 
and 
legal 
liability, an obligation 
to respect their friend’s 
wishes––while 
trying 
not to dwell on the knowledge that the decision 
they make could impact their friend’s long term 
physical or mental health? 
These decisions––they’re often not only 
upsetting, but incredibly perilous. A first-year 
undergrad with a semester of Biology 101 and 
access to WebMD is not able to properly triage 
a patient. A CDC report on binge drinking from 
2015 found that 113 people between the ages 
of 15 and 24 die of alcohol poisoning every year, 
though the number that die of alcohol-induced 
injuries and accidents is much higher (approxi­
mately fifteen hundred college students per year, 
according to the National Institute on Alcohol 
Abuse and Alcoholism).
SECTION 7
It only takes one mistake—that 
decision to put a friend in bed 
instead of picking up the phone—
to cost someone their life. Every 
moment of hesitation, weighing 
unknown probabilities and 
balancing the possibility of physical 
cost against the guarantee of 
financial cost, raises that likelihood.


--- Page 33 ---
Page 33 of 56
An ambulance speeds along South Frontage Road.
Josie Steuer Ingall was making a turn on her bike at the inter-
section of State and Bradley when she was hit by a car. Josie 
went flying and dislocated her hip. Some people eating nearby 
at September in Bangkok witnessed what happened and called 
an ambulance. Josie had heard stories before, and was not 
keen to pay any ambulance bills. She put her own hip back in 
place. “Do not put me in your white van. I am not going to the 
hospital,” Josie remembers thinking. But she was scared; she’d 
just been hit by a car after all. So when the paramedics from 
American Medical Response arrived on scene, they managed to 
persuade her to get into the ambulance for a quick assessment, 
so long as the vehicle didn’t move an inch. “I told them ten 
thousand times I don’t want to go to the hospital,” Josie said. 
The paramedics asked her a few questions, diagnosed her with 
hip contusions, and allowed her to hobble to her boyfriend’s 
house. Josie thought she’d managed to avoid the charge. Later, 
she got a bill for $500. 
STORY 4



**Title: THE COST TO RIDE**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 34-35**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Page 34 of 56
The New Journal
THE COST TO RIDE
FROCOS
“The culture that surrounds this at Yale . . . calling 
an ambulance for someone is really a last 
resort . . . I would say it’s a dilemma that pretty 
much every student at Yale will go through
at least once, if not deciding as a FroCo figure, 
then at least as a friend.” J. ’22, FORMER FROCO

F
ew people are placed in a graver and more con­
fusing situation regarding acute intoxication 
than Yale’s FroCos. Since Yale trains FroCos to 
err on the side of caution when one of their first 
years is in need of medical attention, many stu­
dents know that in certain situations, contacting 
a FroCo is the same as contacting the paramed­
ics. In the experience of more than a few students, 
this Yale policy serves to further isolate them from 
the people best equipped to provide help, and can 
compound the danger of an emergency. 
But FroCos are students themselves. They 
know first-hand what it’s like to worry about the 
cost of an ambulance. At one point, they might 
have had to conceal their intoxication from their 
own FroCos. For J. ’22, a former FroCo, these 
memories are all too fresh.
“We didn’t really realize how difficult things 
could be very quickly if you didn’t have a specialty 
health care coverage,” she told me, referring to a 
time her first year when she called an ambulance 
for her friend. “And so that kind of influenced 
when I was a senior and I called an ambulance for 
someone, the first thing I asked was, ‘Are you for 
sure under specialty coverage?’”

FroCos who encounter emergency situations 
involving alcohol find themselves in an especially 
agonizing bind, J. told me. On the one hand, they 
have close bonds with students and want to save 
them the expense of an ambulance ride that may 
well be unnecessary. On the other hand, they are 
in positions of authority, and choosing not to call 
would deliberately flout protocol. 
“I remember during training they told us that 
we had to call the ambulance if the student was 
unresponsive,” said J. “I remember after that talk 
the [FroCo team] came together and were like, 
‘No, that’s ridiculous. If someone is not able to pay 
for it, we will Uber them there.’” 

Uber is an option for some students, but 
comes with its own host of limitations. Many 
students do not feel safe taking a non-emergency 
vehicle to the hospital––having to obey traffic 
laws and risk sickness en route; and many drivers 
do not feel comfortable carrying a sick student. 
For Matt Chin ’22, former Berkeley FroCo, 
the paramount concern is safety.
“At the end of the day as a FroCo we don’t 
have professional medical experience. So a lot 
of the times when we go into situations, it’s a 
judgment call,” he told me. “And for me person­
ally, I think that really the anxiety around those 
situations comes from just wanting to do the best 
I can to uphold the safety of everyone.”

Despite this, Chin says he dislikes Yale’s pol­
icy, which for him was one of the most frustrat­
ing parts of being a FroCo: “It was baffling to 
me where there was policy in place [that] almost 
counteracted that trust students had in FroCos,” 
he said. “[It] almost seemed counterintuitive to 
what FroCos are in place for and the guidance 
that we received.”

Some students have found strategies to work 
around Yale’s FroCo policy. Will resorted to 
talking to one FroCo in code. “One time I called 
the FroCo and I said, ‘hey, hypothetically, if my 
friend is really drunk, can I explain some hypo­
thetical symptoms to you, and you can tell me 
what you think?’” Will told me. “That’s sort of a 
way of getting around the red tape, and the FroCo 
was fine with doing that.”


**Title: DEVELOPING AN AMBULANCE SYSTEM**

DEVELOPING AN 
AMBULANCE SYSTEM
“I think that whenever Yale sets a cap on their 
resources for emergen[cy] situations, it’s going 
to lead to issues.” ERIN BAILEY ’24

T
here is another way that Yale could ease the 
burden of ambulance fees on students: operate 
its own emergency transport service.

It is relatively common for universities to 
run ambulance systems out of their student EMS 
programs, at little to no cost to the student body. 
Self-reported data on the National Collegiate 
Emergency Medical Service Foundation web­
site––an organization that encompasses stu­
dent-run EMS programs on college campuses 
across the world––shows that thirty-eight of the 
261 represented U.S. colleges supply ambulance 
services to their students.

From my conversations with EMS captains at 
other schools, it appears this does a lot to encour­
age students to seek medical attention. “We see a 
lot of times, we’ll get on scene and a student does 
not want to go to the hospital that really needs 
to go,” said Maribeth Novsak, Chief of Rowan 
University EMS. “So us being able to walk in and 
say, ‘hey, you’re not going to get a bill for this’ . . . it 
usually can get them to get into the ambulance 
and go to the hospital.”

Michelle Kight, Chief of Montclair State 
EMS, told a similar story. “I have recently heard of 
a case where a student didn’t want to go to the 
hospital, and that was the rationale that they gave, 
is that they thought we billed,” she told me. “And 
we’re like, ‘No, we don’t bill, we’ll take you for no 
fee.’ And then they went.”

If Yale wanted to set up an ambulance system 
on campus, they would probably start with Yale
SECTION 9
SECTION 8



**Page number(s): 35**

Page 35 of 56
Emergency Medical Services (YEMS). YEMS is a 
Yale organization made up of volunteer student 
EMTs––most commonly seen at sports games 
or other large events. Though they’re qualified 
to administer basic life support––same as any 
professional EMT––they currently only provide 
stand-by coverage. In other words, they don’t 
respond to calls.
I talked to Judi 
Reynolds, 
New 
Haven’s Regional EMS 
Coordinator, about what 
it would take for YEMS 
to expand into an ambu­
lance agency. Together 
we went through each of 
the state requirements. 
Given 
the 
necessary 
funding and patience, 
there were really only 
two that posed a consid­
erable challenge. 
The 
first––person­
nel acquisition––is the­
oretically achievable, say 
members of the YEMS 
Executive Board and 
university EMS captains. 
In order to earn Primary 
Service Area Responder 
(PSAR) status for Yale 
campus––the designation that allows an orga­
nization to run an ambulance program ––YEMS 
would need to provide 24/7 coverage, 365 days a 
year. That would likely require hiring licensed 
EMTs outside the student body to fill in during the 
times of year when students are on break. The only 
Connecticut college to do this is the University of 
Connecticut, by way of their in-house fire depart­
ment. William Perez, Chief of UConn Fire, told 
me the effort wouldn’t be worth the requisite time 
and money for Yale, so long as back-end reim­
bursement options exist.

The second challenge I discussed with Judi 
Reynolds is more herculean. According to CT 
law, only one agency can serve as the designated 
PSAR in a given municipality at a time. Currently, 
for Yale campus, that agency is AMR. “If you want 
to have an ambulance, then that’s an agreement 
[with AMR] or a relinquishing by them,” Reynolds 
said.

So Yale would have to get AMR to volun­
tarily give up the service rights to Yale campus, 
no doubt a sizable portion of their New Haven 
income. Though Yale could conceivably exert 
enormous pressure on AMR, the chances of them 
succeeding appear small. To hear Chief Perez talk 
about it, Yale would have the same luck asking 
AMR to write them a check. “If 
me or you work at AMR we’d be 
like, ‘What? Absolutely not.’ That’s 
our business. That’s our bread and 
butter,” he said.

AMR earned 860 million dollars in revenue 
in 2021. The North American ambulance services 
market as a whole was valued at 18.85 billion U.S. 
dollars in 2022, according to a 2022 report by 
Grand View Research, and is expected to reach 
$40.64 billion by 2030. “Ambulances…it’s a busi­
ness. [They make it so complicated] to keep 
things in check.” Chief Perez said. “It keeps the 
chess board stable. So when you move that chess 
piece, a lot of people gotta agree and a lot of peo­
ple gotta know.”

I asked Dr. McCarthy if Yale Health had ever 
discussed acquiring their own ambulances: “We 
have not…There are lots of requirements.”

I asked Shaun Heffernon if YEMS had ever 
reached out to AMR: “To the best of my knowl­
edge, they have not formally requested to expand 
their services.”

SECTION 10


**Title: TAKING CARE**

TAKING CARE
“There’s no reason why it shouldn’t be free.
[Yale has] the money. Even if it hurts their 
budget a little bit, they have the money.”
KYLE HOVANNESIAN ’25

C
hief Perez had his own idea for how to main­
tain student safety, for a much lower price tag. 
“Is there any way [Yale] could set aside a little 
pot of money with some administrator that exam­
ines it case by case? How much can it be?” he said. 
“How is that a bad thing?”

The problem of ambulance bills raises a fun­
damental question about the University’s respon­
sibility to its students. To be clear, ambulances are 
not the only medical expense students struggle 
with, nor the only reason they might delay med­
ical care. However, according to student accounts, 
they present a disproportionately large obstacle 
to seeking emergency medical attention and an 
unreasonable financial burden. 

Madeline O’Brien believes something needs 
to change. “Any situation where somebody is not 
taking [an ambulance] because they’re worried 
about cost, that could be life or death,” she said. 
“So even if I don’t have the data on all the peo­
ple who are doing that, if you know one person 
at Yale, or a handful of people at Yale, who didn’t 
get service and it could have made a difference in 
their safety, then that’s an issue that needs to be 
solved,” she said. 

Chief Perez seemed to agree. “I don’t need
. . . something bad happening to you guys because 
you don’t want to call 911 because you don’t want 
to pay,” he told me. “I’d pay for it out of my damn 
pocket before I let you get hurt.”

“It’s not right,” he added after a pause. “We’re 
supposed to take care of each other.” ∎
Jesse Goodman is a senior in Berkeley College
and Executive Editor of The New Journal. 




**Title: WHEN YALE HARBORED A NAZI, PART 2: THE OPEN SECRET**
**Author: Zachary Groz**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Years after one Nazi was exposed at Yale, another remained on the faculty of the Slavic Languages and Literatures department.
In November 1985, nine years after his past as a Nazi propagandist came to light and his life as a Yale lecturer fell apart, Vladimir Sokolov was still enduring what he called, in letters to the local Russian press, the “torture of waiting.” He had waited three years for the Department of Justice’s Office of Special Investigations to conclude its investigation of his career with the Nazis and his deception of American immigration officials in the 1950s. He had waited three more years for the trial––which would revoke his U.S. citizenship––to begin. And now, after 11 days of court proceedings, it would still be several more months before Judge Thomas F. Murphy of the Federal District Court for the District of Connecticut rendered a verdict. 
As the investigations continued, and Sokolov inveighed in emigre newspapers against the DOJ and the “Devil and his henchmen,” things at Yale returned to normal. The Slavic Languages and Literatures Department filled the position Sokolov had vacated and Russian classes in the basement of the Hall of Graduate Studies resumed as before.
But even after the scandal broke, even after Sokolov retired from Yale early in disgrace and left New Haven for good, and despite a three-year Justice Department effort that compiled depositions of Yale faculty, forensic analyses of German war documents, and interviews with historians of the Holocaust, there was still a former Nazi on the faculty of the Slavic department.
The full article appears exclusively online at: 
https://thenewjournalatyale.com/2023/02/
when-yale-harbored-a-nazi-part-2/


**Title: This Tattoo is Permanent**
**Author: Eileen Huang**
**Page number(s): 38-39**

O
ne of the best tattoos Sam 
Jannetty has recently made was 
for a fellow lesbian. It was two 
black-and-white scissors, well, scissoring. 
Like she does with all her designs, Sam 
posted this tattoo to her Instagram page, 
sprinkling rainbow emojis in the caption: 
“IYKYK.” (If you know, you know.)
 Sam is the owner of Broken Crystal 
Tattoo Studio in Milford, Connecticut, 
which she advertises as a queer-friendly 
tattoo shop. The descriptor is unnecessary. “I mean, we’ve got frickin’ Rick and 
Morty playing in here,” Sam says, gestur­
ing to a large flat-screen TV hanging on a 
robin-egg blue wall. The rest of the shop 
resembles an explosion of a Pride parade. 
There are rainbows everywhere: a rain­
bow fan, splayed open next to a poster 
with a chicken nugget on it that reads 
“NUGS, NOT DRUGS”; a rainbow tapestry 
depicting UFOs abducting people from 
Earth; and rainbow Pokemon figurines 
filling a plastic bowl on the coffee table as 
if they were front desk mints. On my first 
visit, I had no trouble finding the shop in 
an otherwise nondescript suburban strip 
mall, as Sam had also hung a set of sheer 
rainbow curtains on the front window. 
Sunlight streamed through, casting kalei­
doscopic reflections on the tiled floor.
It’s in this rainbow-tinted sunlight 
that I watch Sam show me her own 
tattoos. “I think I have, like, thirty-five?” 
She pauses, squinting in the brightness 
as she counts. “Yeah, I’d say thirty-five 
tattoos.” With her colorful arm tattoos 
and neon hair that she dyes and re-dyes 
on a whim, Sam settles in her store per­
fectly. “I wouldn’t worry about putting 
that too close to me,” she says, making a 
slight shooing motion when I adjust my 
phone to record our conversation. “I’m 
loud as hell.”
Sam doesn’t quite have sleeves—or 
at least not yet, she tells me—but her 
tattoos nearly envelop her forearms. She 
raises her arms, wrists turned upward, 
to give me a better look. There’s a red 
Pac-Man, a matching tattoo she shares 
with her siblings, next to a large moth 
that wraps its wings protectively over her 
right elbow. She also has an ice cream 
cone with a skull on top of it, a happy 
little alien holding on to a happy little 
cat, and a tiny fish tank (because she 
has a tiny tank—a small bladder—her­
self). Many of her tattoos were drawn by 
other artists whom she lets practice on 
her own skin. There’s no coherent theme 
tying all of these designs together, but 
I’m surprised to hear that she thinks a lot 
of these permanent creations suck. “This 
one here,” Sam says, pointing to a very 
gay, very rainbow gradient bar on her 
upper arm, “when the artist started, and I 
saw the ink bleeding together, I thought, 
‘Oh, shit.’” She shrugs and laughs.
Sam runs Broken Crystal (she chose 
the name because it’s rather “pastel goth,” 
she says) with her sister Chloe and 
another colleague. The shop opened in 
April 2021 and has drawn a loyal, mostly 
queer cohort of tattoo enthusiasts. Sam 
started tattooing around her college 
graduation, five years ago. In that time, 
she’s seen her fair share of the less savory 
side of the tattooing industry. She got 
her tattooing license by enrolling in a 
tattooing school, ignoring the traditional 
route of becoming an apprentice to a 
more established artist. But Sam found 
the school, with its exorbitant tuition 
and a general lack of committed instruc­
tors, to be highly exploitative. Sam pri­
marily taught herself by practicing, for 
hours upon hours, on fake skin and 
fruit rinds, and eventually joined a tat­
too shop in New Haven as a new artist. 
But the shop she worked at was a far cry 
from the one she owns now. Most of the 
other artists were men, who would occa­
sionally hit on their women clients. Sam, 
a “hundred-footer” (someone you could 
spot as gay from a hundred feet away), 
immediately felt out of place. “I was the 
show pony of the shop,” she says.
Sam hates being told what to do, and 
her anti-authoritarian impulses blos­
somed as she grew tired of traditional, 
male-dominated tattoo shops and their 
hypermasculine decor. After saving up 
some money, she left the old shop and 
opened her own studio. “They’re all 
the same,” Sam says. “You walk in, and 
there’s a motorcycle up front. There’s 
some creepy-ass version of metal music 
in the background, all these guys around. 
It’s like a sit down, shut up, get tattooed 
kind of thing.”
At her old shop, Sam had to endure 
some rather bizarre tattoo requests. Once, 
a gay man walked in and demanded that 
she tattoo the f-slur on the inside of 
his lip. He wanted to reclaim the word, 
and a queer artist should help him do it 
at the very least, right? Another time, a 
couple—it’s always the couple tattoos—
wanted each other’s names tattooed on 
them in a brushstroke heart with three 
money wads on one side, three pot leaves 
on the other. No matter what, Sam 
reserves most of her judgment, with the 
exception of turning down one customer 
who insisted on getting a butterfly tramp 
stamp that started in her ass crack.
“Sometimes I’m like, you really want 
to get this shit on you right now?” she 
says. She lets out a brief sigh. “But if you 
want it, you want it. Go for it.”
I 
decided to get my first tattoo a 
couple summers ago, when I began 
dating women for the first time. It was 
a simple line drawing of two koi fish 
swimming around each other, designed 
by my childhood best friend, who is also 
queer and Chinese. I knew I wanted it 
on my arm, or somewhere visible on 
my body. I wasn’t going to hide it under 
a sleeve, or keep it tucked behind my 
ear. My body and I have had a strained 
relationship, and it became even more 
tense during lockdown. I had little to 
do besides waste time in my childhood 
bedroom, watching my body and face 
mutate and metamorphose: gaining 
weight, losing weight, gaining it back, 
plus more; cutting my bangs, dying my 
hair. I became less interested in looking 
thin, pretty, and appealing to men—the 
things I’d been concerned about before 
the pandemic cut my sophomore year of 
college short—and more concerned with 
just looking different. Having a visible 
tattoo was a part of that journey.
Sometimes, I look through the CVS 
photos that used to hang under the 
string lights in my dorm. The photos 
remind me of how little I recognize in 
my old self. In one photo, she’s wearing 
a hot pink dress, her arms draped around 
a friend. She’s drunk, but laughing. In 
By Eileen Huang
Layout design by Kevin Chen



**Title: This Tattoo is Permanent**
**Author: Eileen Huang**
**Page number(s): 40-42**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
another, her long hair spills over her 
shoulder as she leans over to kiss a boy 
on the cheek. The person in the photos 
was twenty pounds lighter, more delicate, 
more feminine, and very, very straight.
No one else in my family has a tat­
too. When I was mulling over my first 
tattoo, my mother lamented to me that 
no one would hire me if I got one. I had 
to reassure her that the only occupations 
I could foresee banning tattoos were 
preschool teachers and the Navy, and I 
had no intention of joining either. But 
I could understand her ambivalence. In 
the weeks ahead of my appointment, 
questions swarmed in my mind. What if 
I don’t like the way it looks on my body? 
What will happen when I’m older, when 
my skin sags and swells, when the ink 
blurs and fades? I shuddered to imag­
ine the wrinkles forming around those 
two fish, their bellies slowly bulging and 
bloating along with my own.

Getting a tattoo is a dull, monoto­
nous pain, like getting stung by a micro­
scopic bee over and over again—only, the 
bee is actually a thin needle puncturing 
your skin up to three thousand times per 
minute. When the needle punctures your 
dermis, the second layer of your skin, and 
injects a spout of ink, your body sends 
white blood cells to attack the foreign 
particles. But tattoo particles are larger 
than the particles white blood cells can 
dispose of, so the ink remains. A tattoo 
is a wound you wear forever. I thought of 
this as the artist moved the needle to the 
thickest, most fleshy part of my shoulder, 
as I closed my eyes and felt the machine 
buzz into my skin.


Although Sam’s workspace in 
Broken Crystal, like the rest of the 
store, is a shock of colors and trinkets, 
it serves a utilitarian purpose too. On a 
simple black shelf, miniature figurines 
of monkeys, unicorns, and skeletons 
stand with the order and obedience 
of a newly conscripted army among 
sterilized needles, gauze pads, and 
Vaseline. Among their ranks is a dried 
out orange peel, preserved proudly in a 
glass case. There are faint black scratches 
shaped like fish and flowers on its side, 
likely some of Sam’s earliest etchings.

In her sanitized, well-organized nook, 
Sam is showing a custom design that she 
drew on her iPad to Tatiana, her client 
today. Tatiana, like most clients, found 
Broken Crystal by asking around for 
good queer tattoo artists in the area. The 
design is rather bare bones, without the 
shading and detail that Sam will include 
later. Flowers are one of Sam’s specialties; 
she can usually draw them from memory.

After Tatiana approves the design, 
Sam prints out a stencil version on car­
bon-based paper in washable ink. The 
stencil is what’s used to determine the 
tattoo’s placement, and what the artist 
ultimately traces over during the actual 
tattooing. Sam shaves Tatiana’s calf and 
disinfects it, and reaches past her collec­
tion of Dr. Seuss-themed bobbleheads 
for a thick, purple gooey substance. She 
applies the goo generously to the sten­
cil on Tatiana’s leg. When she peels it 
away, we see the final design: a delicate 
sunflower, its stem a trail of cursive spell­
ing out the name of Tatiana’s late aunt. 
Sam has watched clients decide on one 
placement, then decide it was too high, 
then too low, then too off-center, before 
concluding that their original placement 
was ideal all along. But Sam is always 
patient. “I want people to feel comfort­
able with whatever goes on their bodies,” 
Sam insists. Thankfully, Tatiana likes the 
initial placement too.

Watching Sam work, I learn that tat­
tooing is a lot like painting, and Sam, a 
lifelong artist who attended an arts high 
school, is a practiced impressionist. She 
first makes a gentle outline of the sun­
flower on Tatiana’s leg, carefully and 
slowly tracing out the hair-thin stem, 
each folded petal. She uses a handheld 
needle—not one of the heavy, traditional 
needles connected to a power outlet 
that shakes when you turn the voltage 
higher—because it feels like using a light 
paintbrush. Once the black outline is 
down, she goes in with the colors, start­
ing with the lightest shade and moving 
to the darkest, easing them into the skin 
like slow, weighty watercolors.

Sam tells me, much to my surprise, 
that she suffers from carpal tunnel syn­
drome. Her hand tenses up sometimes, 
which can make tattooing rather uncom­
fortable. When she tattoos, her vivacious, 
effervescent expressions grow more sub­
dued. She quietly and steadily holds the 
tattoo gun in place, applying brief dabs of 
Vaseline to make sure the ink enters the 
skin seamlessly. She checks in regularly 
with her clients—“You hanging in there? 
Does that hurt?”—before returning to 
her work with intense focus. She tells me 
that she hates seeing her clients in pain. 
“I hate hurting people,” she admits, “even 
though that’s my job.”

Sam remembers the pain of her first 
tattoo too vividly. She had just turned 
18, and her parents had finally let her get 
that ambitious tattoo she had wanted for 
a long time: a giant, multicolored dream 
catcher that encircled her back, inspired 
by Disney’s Pocahontas. “You know, 
‘Colors of the Wind’ and blue corn moon 
and all of that stuff?” she reminisces.

The full color tattoo took around 
three hours to complete. It felt like a 
hot knife going into her back the entire 
time. The male artist was a family friend. 
“Everything about it was awful. There 
was metal music playing, skulls every­
where, and the guy’s got a big bike out­
side, bulldogs in front,” Sam groans. 
“He’s got greased-back hair, tattoos 
everywhere, like the most cliché tattoo 
shop you could possibly go to. And of 
all the names, the shop was called, like, 
COMMITMENT.” She spits out the 
word dramatically.

“Why did you choose to get more 
tattoos?” I ask. “Thirty-four more, to be 
exact?”

“It’s like having a kid,” she says non­
chalantly. “No one likes being pregnant. 
No one likes [childbirth], but you like 
[kids] when they’re 18 and out of your 
house. And then they’re here to save 
you later.”


The word “tattoo” comes from the 
Tahitian word “ta-tu,” meaning to 
write or mark, which is what Indigenous 
communities in the Pacific Islands 
had been doing for generations before 
European colonization. For Indigenous 
peoples, tattoos served more than an 
aesthetic purpose. They were protective 
talismans, or even permanent, corpo­
real genealogies, each one marking an 
individual’s social status and lineage. 
Eighteenth-century Europeans, how­
ever, found these exquisite markings 
of animals, patterns, and nature to be 
primitive—albeit fascinating—oddities. 
Colonizers captured tattooed men and 
women to display at world’s fairs, plac­
ing them in “human zoos” where other 
Europeans could gawk at the savagery of 
the lesser known, un-Christian parts of 
the world. Sandwiched between exhib­
its boasting the latest models of steam 
engines, or other novel tools of industri­
alization, these human zoos completed 
stadial theories of evolution. The tattoo 
was understood as a feature of the “unciv­
ilized Other,” whose body was made 
purely for public consumption, asserting 
the superiority of the Western world.

The public perception of tattooing in 
the West changed with the invention of 
the tattoo machine, which made tattoo­
ing less time-consuming and more acces­
sible. Around the same time, Western 
powers set up formal military outposts 
in the Pacific, placing male soldiers in 
Asia. Many returned home with dragons, 
geishas, military insignia, flags, or even 
“MOM,” or a fiancé’s name written in an 
obnoxiously red heart. The practice grew 
in popularity and spread among veterans, 
working class men, the Chicano move­
ment, biker gangs, and queer subcultures. 
Suddenly, tattoos had new, subversive 
meanings: they were marks of survival, 
resilience, pride, and resistance against a 
world that marked you as Other.

When I first discovered the queer 
tattooing scene, I was surprised by the 
number of queer artists, especially artists 
of color, who were committed to unset­
tling tattooing stereotypes. Like Sam, 
they weren’t interested in abiding by 
overly masculine, Orientalist, or con­
spicuously white and Western tattoo 
traditions. Their designs were thin and 
detailed, inspired by Gothic design, tra­
ditional Korean and Chinese artwork, 
queer subcultures—anything counter-
hegemonic. They wore their tattoos 
proudly. When I turned 21 and started 
visiting queer bars and clubs in New 
York City, I noticed, alongside mullets 
and ripped tops, arms and legs covered 
in monochromatic and colorful designs.

At the same time, I began delving 
into feminist and queer theory, tak­
ing in ideas that celebrated body mod­
ification as a subversive act. I began to 
understand my body as a site for my 
politics, and a site where difference is 
made apparent and celebrated. Perhaps 
this is what I wanted when I got my first 
tattoo, then another, and another: to 
destroy and incinerate my straight body, 
to coax out a new visibly and conspic­
uously queer body—the one I had hid­
den for so long by growing out my hair, 
painting my nails, throwing up, starving 
myself, wearing bodycon dresses, and 
sleeping with men. I, too, hoped that 
tattoos would save me. As I walked out 
of the studio last August and passed my 
hand over the fresh wound of my new 
tattoo, I traced the two fishes, wanting 
to feel like a phoenix breathing in its 
first breath of air.


In her senior year of college, Sam 
realized she was developing feelings for 
her roommate. It was something she had 
never really experienced before. “Great 
times, like Stockholm syndrome,” she 
concedes, rolling her eyes. “I just liked 
them because I was around them so god­
damn much.” She finally decided it was 
time to come out, though she had known 
for a long time that she wasn’t attracted 
to men. In high school, she avoided dat­
ing anyone. While her friends talked 
about their school crushes, she shud­
dered at the thought of kissing a boy.

I empathize with many moments 
in Sam’s coming out journey. There was 
the ambivalence toward most men who 
hit on her, the general lack of interest in 
presenting as overly feminine, and the 
one very intense female “friendship” in 
high school that had turned out to be 
a blatantly obvious crush, followed by a 
similarly intense friendship breakup. “I 
mean, I showed up to this girl’s doorstep 
on Valentine’s Day with frickin’ flowers 
and a teddy bear,” Sam says, cringing.

Sam passed as a straight woman for 
most of her life. She grew up in a com­
munity and went to a university where 
she was one of few queer women. She 
wore her hair long, donned shape­
less, unremarkable clothes, and tried to 
look the least Sam as possible. She was 
even voted prom queen, an irony she 
acknowledges with a chuckle. It wasn’t 
until she opened Broken Crystal that 
she started to meet and make queer 
friends. She started presenting as a 
hundred-footer, with collared shirts, a 
whiff of short hair, and arms full of tat­
toos. She started dating a woman—Sara, 
her girlfriend of over four years—and 
buzzed away her hair.

When I ask her if she noticed people 
treating her differently after she came 
out, she tells me about an encounter she 
had with a Christian proselytizer when 
she worked at Walmart a few years ago. 
The proselytizer had noticed Sam’s col­
orful half-sleeves and remarked that tat­
toos are not “what God wants.” Enraged, 
Sam told the woman that she had a pair 
of demon wings inked on her back—and 
she was going to tattoo her face next.

“I’m going to Hell for a lot worse 
than my tattoos,” Sam laughs. “I’m 
gonna go down for being frickin’ gay.”


On one of my visits to Sam, I 
noticed that she has a tattoo of 
two overlapping cards on her left arm. 
The first card read: “THIS TATTOO 
IS PERMANENT.” The second, “THIS 
BODY IS TEMPORARY.” 

“What does that mean?” I asked.

“This? Oh, I just thought it was funny,” 
she started, then paused for a moment. 
“But my whole thing is: if you want it, you 
want it. If you want a tattoo just because 
it looks cool, go for it. It’s a memory. 
Obviously there are some stupid tattoos, 
but people do stupid things every day. I 
mean, I’m driving a Jeep every day.” She 
gestured wildly to said vehicle in the 
parking lot. “Them shits flip.”

“People are obsessed with making 
their tattoos perfect because it stays on 
your body forever, and then I have to 
explain to them that their bodies are not 
perfect to begin with. But that’s okay—
it’s good to have your tattoos a little bit 
crooked, because our bodies are a little 
bit crooked. There’s something comfort­
ing to me about that permanence.”


For my last visit to Broken Crystal, 
I decide that I want a new tattoo. I 
don’t think much about it as I wait in 
front of the studio on a bright, crisp 
November morning. I’m just feeling a 
cool flower at the moment, or some­
thing of the sort. My mind jumps to the 
flower that shares a name with the first 
woman I dated.

Sam pulls up in her olive green Jeep. 
She steps out of the car with Sara, her 
girlfriend, whom Sam wants me to meet.

The three of us spend the morn­
ing chatting in the shop as Sam tat­
toos me. Sam first cleans the sensitive 
inside part of my forearm, placed on an 
armrest, with her usual tenderness and 
care, and the light from the curtains 
casts flashes of color on our skin. As the 
needle hits my skin, Sam and Sara talk 
about some of their nightmarish room­
mates—including a woman who let 
her giant pet rabbits shit all over their 
house—and it almost makes me forget 
about the dull pain in my arm. It feels 
nice to not be in reporter mode, to just 
listen and laugh.

“I think that’s done,” Sam finally says. 
She dabs Vaseline, wipes it gently with a 
paper towel to reveal the finished piece. 
“Do you like it?”

I look down at the detailed, refined 
stem, the petals curling so realistically—
as if scorched, briefly, by sunlight. I do. ∎
Eileen Huang is a senior in
Timothy Dwight College.



**Title: Theseus’ Ship**
**Author: Amanda Budejen**
**Page number(s): 41-42**

And they call this the Theseus’ ship paradox:
The great hero returned triumphant
And left his ship in some Athenian harbor,
A floating reminder of his victory
Until it began to rot.

If I replace the broken parts with new ones,
Is it still Theseus’ ship?
How much is something allowed to change
Before it becomes something else?
The floorboards fell apart and
Now there’s fresh ones where they lay.
The oars were switched out,
The figurehead repainted—
I have a new favorite song.

And I like black beans now, 
And I draw eyes differently than I used to,
And I’ve set fire to my bridges
And built new ones where they stood.
Bits of my personality wear away,
The gaps are filled in by someone else—
How long until I’m no longer recognizable?

If my future self is a stranger to me,
If I can no longer stand where I once stood
And see what I once saw,
If I’m not who I once was
Am I still Theseus’ ship? 

Or some other vessel now, 
One that should be familiar but isn’t,
A lingering sense of deja vu?
If you replace every part of something
Will they call it a paradox?
Or will they just call it growth?
And does it matter?
Whether this is the ship
Or just a ship?
It floats, after all, 
And it’s mine. 
—Amanda Budejen 
illustration by charlotte rica



**Title: Queerness as Art. Queerness as Love. Queerness as Life. On my good friend, Reese Jacobs.**
**Author: Lana Perice**
**Page number(s): 43-45**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Mulberry sighs. Dry gold brush. Mothers like Gods.
Barefoot in the buffalograss. Love, soft and tender.
Essay
M
y favorite photo Reese has 
taken of me is the one posted to 
his Instagram in between frag­
mented shots of his body. I’m applying 
my favorite red lipstick, staring into a 
silver hand mirror in the warm lighting 
of my old freshman dorm in Welch Hall. 
He’s captioned it, “this is my body bro­
ken for you, or whatever.” When I ask 
him about it, he gleefully tells me it’s a 
reference to the Bible, when Jesus offers 
his body as the wine and bread of com­munion. Corinthians 11:24: Take, eat; this 
is My body which is broken for you. “Oh my 
God,” Reese exclaims, “that goes so hard. 
I wish I thought of that!” 

I don’t think that it was intentional 
for Reetse to place me in the midst of 
his broken body, but I love to think of 
myself there. Once, I wrote to my friend 
Jabez that in his eyes I was broken and 
remade into the image of a new God. To 
me, this is what it means to have queer 
friends. Or more like, this is what it is 
to recognize yourself in someone. Here 
is my body, broken for you. In between the 
fragments of our bodies and Gods lie our 
hearts and the art that comes from them. 
As queers, we are reimagining it all—and 
in these bodies, we find something holy. 

I was not raised religious. I spent 
the last summer wandering through­
out Italy, learning about saints and their 
golden sins. In every Catholic church, 
there was the bloodied body of Christ 
hung for all to see, his weeping mother 
posited even higher. I carried bad luck 
with me all that summer and wondered 
if the tombs of the priests I had so care­
lessly walked over could sense my irrev­
erence. Even worse was my treatment of 
the Sistine Chapel. You’re not supposed 
to take pictures, but I did anyways. All 
those glorious man-bodies, bulging 
with cheek and muscle. I wondered if I 
was going to Hell. I posted them to my 
Instagram and wrote, I love queer people. I 
hope you all live long, beautiful lives. I hope 
the journey is abundant and kind. I hope you 
find your people. I hope it’s everything you 
wanted and more.

All this to say that I am painting a 
new kind of citizenship here. I am re-
imagining God in the image of an erotic, 
homosexual, and queer personhood. I 
hope you will forgive my irreverence.

This is not to say that Reese is a god. 
Reese is queer. Reese is Jewish. Reese is 
from Texas. Reese loves Houston. We 
share a love for gold jewelry. He loves 
his mother and his older sister, Georgia. 
I can say all of these things, but it is hard 
to impart what I really think embodies 
Reese, the parts of him that aren’t so 
easy to compartmentalize. A smooth, 
low-hanging voice. Slim-fingered hands 
he throws up in the air like someone’s 
exasperated Southern grandmother, half 
prayer and half surrender. And then 
there’s what could only be his: a kind of 
shining generosity, one that can’t help 
but spill over his fingertips and into the 
art he makes.

The photographer’s gaze is often 
a site of transaction; to desire a certain 
shot, to capture a moment and steal its 
private passing, can be a selfish or twisted 
act. But Reese’s warmth is inescapable in 
his shots—every subject is given some­
thing precious, a certain beauty we can 
witness only through his gaze. He tells 
me that striving to capture that warmth 
in his subjects “was always the sentence 
I was trying to write. That I couldn’t find 
the words for. I feel like I finally found 
my stride . . . with capturing this feeling 
of softness and warmth and romanticism 
that I associate with my home and the 
people that I love and the people that 
make me feel safe.” 

There are dozens of his photographs 
that come to mind when he says this—
his sister haloed in golden light and peer­
ing through a shredded window screen, 
a Mona Lisa-esque smile on her face. 
The regal grace of his mother as she sits 
astride her horse, the gentle blue back­
drop of a Texan twilight behind her. That 
first photo from my freshman dorm, 
and the sureness I felt in his gaze 
behind me as he witnessed 
and captured a moment I
felt beautiful. 

He continues. “A 
lot of my photogra­
phy has shifted to 
those moments of 
feeling good. If 
you go back and 
read my essays, 
in any piece of 
art that I pro­
duce, I have 
this fascination 
with this very 
somatic 
feel­
ing of warmth, 
of 
wetness. . . . I 
think it’s a sensa­
tion that makes me 
feel safe. That essay 
about Houston starts 
out with ‘thick, fleshy 
one-ness.’ 

That’s 
the 
closest thing I’ve come to
describing it.” 

I think of an interview I once 
read with poet Ocean Vuong, where 
he wrote: Is it possible for queer joy—out­
sider-hood—to be so mundane that, in that 
simplicity, it’s radical? To insist that this joy 
does not have to end in tragedy, in death, in 
loss? We can just simply sit at a table and be 
okay for the next five minutes. I think of 
the photos Reese captures of his loved 
ones—wherein we are well and whole. 
We are fragmented and united. Our 
untethered, rehumanized beauty is rad­
ical. We have all the warmth of a home. 

On this Reese and I agree: queer­
ness is a mode, an ethic. Brimming with 
sexuality, but also a descriptor for the 
ways in which queer, erotic autonomy 
defies the goals of the nation-state. His 
art is a production of this philosophy, of 
desire manifested and realized. As the 
soft, pink light of our common room 
shines over his pale hands, he says to me: 
“Photography is about aesthetics. What 
you see, what you envision. I’ve always 
been attracted to, obviously, men. But 
that used to be something so shameful 
and painful for me. I think art started 
as a way to navigate those feelings . . . the 
fact that I was attracted to these men, 
these male bodies and male forms, 
became a source of inspiration . . . It was 
about reclaiming the things I’ve always 
wanted to take pictures of. I’ve always 
wanted to look at men.”

Now I am offering you my own 
remembrance. I remember being a queer 
child and growing up feeling part-pred­
ator. I wonder how it left its mark—
thinking I was half-human. I craved 
love. I still do. Love, full and whole. I 
was always really good at that. I give it 
to other people fast and easy, just the way 
I like it. I love the ritual of it. I love the 
act of honoring, of desire and its release; 
I love the moment of yes, yes I will do 
this, I will do it again and again and 
again until I am filthy with it. These are 
the echoes of a childhood spent seeking 
love. These are the manifestations of our 
very human desire.

Queerness is a lifeforce, a freedom. 
Desire is a long-held wish. And pride is 
still protest. We are still freeing ourselves, 
still forging the world in which our 
desires are no longer paid for in blood.

If I could write my own version of a 
Corinthians-like prayer, it would begin like 
this: here lies the flesh, the body, the reck­
oning of its blood and warmth. We are not 
Jesus Christ’s bloodied body hanging from 
the church walls, but his still-living desire. I 
will not invoke the familiar sins. I am tired 
of blood; I’ve grown weary of sacrifice. I 
am realizing that not everything is a 
loss. I am holding the peace with 
me, reveling in the sound of a 
heartbeat both warm and 
wild; I am realizing that 
my heart was looking 
for friends like Reese 
for a long, long time.

We 
should 
all be so lucky 
to have queer 
friends. 

Queer 
people 
make the good 
art and embrace 
their 
friends 
and be radically 
happy, 
merrily 
and 
religiously 
relentlessly. 

Singer 
Phoebe 
Bridgers 
said, 
I 
wanted to see the world 
through your eyes until it 
happened. But my friend, 
I want to see the world 
through your eyes if only to 
see the beauty you render it. I 
want the world to see what I see, too.

I sometimes think that in fifty years, 
when our bones have dried up, I’ll crawl 
into that good place and find a field of 
golden hay, a slim-fingered hand waiting 
to guide us to its center. There will be a 
big round table, oak and sturdy, and we 
won’t remember things like the open 
wound of our queerness or who we used 
to be. I’ll feel a touch on my shoulder and 
turn to see the face of my old friend, and 
feel for a second what it used to be like 
in the warmth of his gaze. We will talk 
with our companions and laugh for hours. 
There are no gods. Not really. Not here. ∎
Lana Perice is a sophomore in 
Trumbull College.
layout design by kevin chen




**Lucretia’s Corner**
**Author: Johnny Phan**
**Page number(s): 46-48**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Africans were among new haven’s 
first settlers, the archival papers 
read. They say that she was “the first 
African of which there is any record,” that 
her name was Lucretia. 1638 is the year that 
she arrived, where she lived in Governor 
Theophilus Eaton’s estate and tended to 
twenty-one fireplaces and over thirty res­
idents, raising up Elihu Yale himself. In a 
ninety-one-page paper titled “The Hist ori­
cal Status of the Negro on Connecticut” by 
William C. Fowler, it is said that Lucretia 
died happy and content and married to 
her husband John Cram, and grew old on 
two acres of land parceled out from Eaton’s 
property.

If you search online for Lucretia and 
manage to find her, each result will repeat 
the words of Fowler’s work when describ­
ing her. Whether it be the “Records of the 
Colony and Plantation of New Haven, 
from 1638 to 1649” or an 1899 article in 
Connecticut Magazine titled “Negro Slavery 
in Connecticut,” Lucretia and her husband 
are always parceled out no more than a sin­
gle mention, the subject of a sentence. The 
sentences all amount to something like this: 
They were people enslaved to Governor 
Theophilus Eaton who “grew old and stub­
born and eventually died happy and content 
on their allotted two acres of ground.”

Twice more Lucretia can be found 
online, once in a 1646 court transcript and 
another time in “The Public Records of the 
Colony of Connecticut, from August, 1689 
to May, 1706.” The latter collection lends 
context that Eaton had given Lucretia and 
John Cram the two acres of land because 
they were growing “old and troublesome.” 
In the former, Lucretia isn’t described on a 
broad scale, but in her actions. Mentioned 
once in the transcript, she is presented as a 
witness against Thomas Hogg, an enslaved 
resident of the Eaton estate accused of bes­
tiality and theft. Each time Lucretia is found, 
it is only in conjunction with another name.

Dr. Ann E. Garrett Robinson, a writer, 
researcher, and former professor of psy­
chology at Gateway Community College, 
says that she just “kind of stumbled upon 
Lucretia.” While conducting research in 
1997 for a new museum on schooling for 
African American children in the Prince 
Hall Masonic Temple, she came across the 
historical papers that read that Africans were 
among New Haven’s first settlers. Lucretia, 
the papers claimed, was “the first African of 
which there is any record” in New Haven.

“Her name seemed to echo on that 
page,” Dr. Robinson said, after a long pause. 
In the twenty-five years since she first read 
the name Lucretia, Dr. Robinson—now 89 
years old—has been searching to complete 
more of her story.

“Throughout 
my 
whole 
life 
I’ve 
looked toward opening doors,” she told 
me. “Having attended an all-Black school 
as a child and throughout my high school 
career, I’ve always had to. Had to be the 
first, couldn’t wait on nobody.” Had to be, 
she declared over the phone, as if in a single 
moment these stories, part of her larger his­
tory, could slip between her fingers.

She has devoted much of her life 
to championing and reconstructing the 
lives of those who came before her. In 
1982, her dissertation research on Booker 
T. Washington’s three wives was cited in 
Ebony Magazine. The article attributes 
her with “playing a major role in focusing 
public attention on the forgotten wives of 
Washington.” In all of her work, she reaches 
back into the past, cultivating counternar­
ratives for the lives that were reduced to 
single lines within historical records. These 
stories, entangled with her own, beat out a 
steady drum: “We cannot be forgotten,” Dr. 
Robinson insists.

In an attempt to bring Lucretia back 
into the public memory, Dr. Robinson has 
spoken out about the importance of pub­
lic representations of Lucretia’s name. “We 
need to name a building in her name, we 
need to name a school in her name . . . ” Dr. 
Robinson declared back in an April 2022 
radio interview on Dateline New Haven.

Steve Winter—Dr. Robinson’s friend 
and then-alderman for Ward 21—worked 
with her to try to honor Lucretia. Together, 
they drafted a petition to have the corner 
renamed. The petition required at least 250 
signatures for approval, two-thirds of which 
had to come from the neighborhood sur­
rounding the petitioning area. The neigh­
borhood expands into the greater part of 
Downtown New Haven and includes most 
Yale students.

Winter and Dr. Robinson found 
the bulk of their supporters by knocking 
on doors in the McQueeney Towers on 
Orange Street, a public housing devel­
opment for senior and disabled residents. 
After quickly collecting the required 250 
signatures, the pair took the issue to the


**Lucretia’s Corner**
**Author: Johnny Phan**
**Page number(s): 49-50**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
49
TheNewJournal        January 2023
New Haven Board of Alders. The vote 
that took place on November 10th, 2022, 
was swift and unanimous: the corner 
of Orange and Elm was declared to be 
Lucretia’s Corner. For Winter and Dr. 
Robinson, the ease of this process reaffirmed 
the ability of the public to elevate past lives 
and stories. Lucretia’s life, Winter noted, “was 
long overdue” for remembrance.


In the days after the vote, Winter 
and Dr. Robinson celebrated the naming 
of Lucretia’s Corner, the same location 
where Lucretia worked on Governor Eaton’s 
three thousand-acre, thirty-person estate 
four hundred years ago. “[Corner naming] is a 
great tradition because it acknowledges that 
the public has control over the public space and 
what stories are told in the public space,” Winter 
said.


When Dr. Robinson stumbled upon 
Lucretia’s name nearly twenty-five 
years ago, she had no idea who Lucretia 
was and sought to put a face to the name, 
to answer the lingering question of Who is 
she? As she continued to search throughout 
the archives across New Haven 
and the larger part of Connecticut, Dr. 
Robinson came to draw up only fragments 
of Lucretia’s life, compiling only a short 
stack of documents that failed to reveal 
who Lucretia was.


There’s very little on Lucretia beyond 
her name, the touchstone to Lucretia’s 
life which first prompted Dr. Robinson’s 
search. She blames part of this absence 
on the great fire of 1666, the remnants 
of which caused Eaton to rebuild his 
estate from wood to brick and stone. Dr. 
Robinson questions what couldn’t have 
been replaced—that perhaps lost to 
the fire were irretrievable hints to who 
Lucretia was.


“Lucretia’s case is interesting because 
she is one of the few named enslaved 
people,” Dr. Robinson told me. “Names 
weren’t common, especially when you were 
thought of as property.” Yet even in her 
name there is uncertainty—we don’t know 
if Lucretia really was her name, whether 
it was a title she was born with or one 
that she was consigned to bear. Perhaps 
it was just something that Eaton tacked 
on when she arrived to the Americas. As 
I raised these doubts to Dr. Robinson, she 
looked at me and could only nod her head 
in agreement.


“It’s like a puzzle,” Dr. Robinson says. 
“You have to piece together what you’ve 
heard, what the literature tells you.” It 
seems that in between the gaps of the 
pieces is silence, and in the silence is where 
you will find Lucretia.


The city has decided it is Lucretia’s 
Corner now, the corner of Orange and 
Elm. Perhaps this gesture is meant to signal 
her final ownership of the two acres that 
Eaton once allotted her. But then again, 
you wouldn’t know that this is her corner. 
There still is no plaque commemorating 
her place. Instead, you will find the words 
“ROSA STOP HATE” scratched into a 
concrete wall. Just above it, a torn poster 
peeling away from its tape: Slow Down. 
Breathe, the poster echoes—stop and think, 
appreciate the life that has been placed 
before you, remember her life. But we do 
not know exactly what that life entailed.


Can it ever be Lucretia’s corner? She 
is not here—not physically at least—to 
claim ownership over it, and a corner is not 
enough to undo the violence that she faced 
and the erasure that subsequently left her 
absent from history. A name is practically 
all that is left, and that too is riddled 
with doubt. During our conversation, Dr. 
Robinson says, “We don’t know where in 
Africa Lucretia was born. We don’t know 
where she’s buried.” A corner doesn’t tell 
us these things.


I don’t think the corner is enough, but 
I don’t think the corner was ever meant 
to be the solution. It’s an act that brings 
Lucretia, slowly, into the public memory of 
current-day New Haven, rather than leaving 
her to be forgotten, spared just a few 
words in the archives.


“The corner naming is something that 
I hope can bring together so many people 
from various walks of life,” Dr. Robinson 
tells me at the end of our conversation. “At 
the corner of Orange and Elm you have 
the government buildings, the rich and 
powerful, and even housing projects all in 
the same ward; that ward is a place that 
represents the Green, the public library, 
and, in a small space, all of New Haven.”


We don’t know what her real name 
is—we can’t ever know. Yet what we do 
know is this: four hundred years ago she 
once existed, and four hundred years later 
she continues to live. To remember her 
is to reignite that flame, to believe in her 
life beyond our grasp—that we don’t need 
to see her nor find her to believe that she 
lived. So it isn’t much, but it is something, 
a piece that brings remembrance. This is 
her corner. ∎
Johnny Phan is a sophomore in
Morse College.
50
TheNewJournal
In all of her work, she 
reaches back into 
the past, cultivating 
counternarratives 
for the lives that were 
reduced to single lines 
within historical 
records. These stories, 
entangled with her 
own, beat out a steady 
drum: “We cannot 
be forgotten,” Dr. 
Robinson insists.



**Diamond Cave**
**Author: rachel shin**
**Page number(s): 50-51**

This collection is inspired by the poem
“금강 굴” / “Diamond Cave” by Ko Un.
The poem, translated by Sunny Jung, goes:
What a relief
you cannot live everywhere all at once.
Today, here in Diamond Cave,
there’s no longer any reason to live.
Stay one or two days:
this world
& the Other are drained of difference.
Wind blows.
As a pearl is born at seabottom in agony
out of oyster flesh from within the most obscure darkness
here the wind blows from the depths.
I want to travel far & then return.
The wind blows as if I were eighty-five,
maybe eighty-seven.


51
January 2023
The Diamond Cave is at once dislocated 
and omnipresent—both current and 
timeless. The location is, for each reader, 
“Today, here.” At first blush, Ko’s take
on the present is nihilistic as he writes that 
life is devoid of meaning and difference. 
However, in the second stanza, change stirs.
Wind blows and a pearl tears from the 
womb. As Ko earlier equated difference with 
meaning, we see that these infinitesimal
motions create purpose within “the most 
obscure darkness.” In Korean, the word “굴,”
 which Jung translates as “Cave” in the
title, also means oyster. Thus, Ko likens the
imperceptible seabottom affairs of the oyster 
to our “Today, here.” He suggests that even 
within the most obscure darknesses
of our individual Diamond Caves, pearls 
may yet be born.
Here, I sought to capture pearls—beads of 
luminescence—in various Diamond Caves 
through which I’ve passed.
essay and photos by rachel shin



**Title: Piano Man**
**Author: Cora Hagens**
**Page number(s): 52-54**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
My first impression upon meet­
ing William Harold is that he 
has absolutely destroyed the 
piano in front of him. He’s trustworthy, 
of course, because he is a piano tech­
nician, but at the current moment the 
Steinway grand that he sits in front of 
looks genuinely wrecked. He’s taken 
it apart in ways I didn’t realize a piano 
could be taken apart. The keys, for exam­
ple, and the entire action (the mech­
anism which translates a press of a key 
into a hammer strike) have been slid for­
ward, out of the piano frame, and onto 
his lap.


Harold has been Yale School of 
Music’s resident piano technician since 
1997, which means that he is responsi­
ble for maintaining the 130 Steinways 
(high-quality pianos built by Steinway 
& Sons) on the University’s property. 
He tries to stay invisible, but perhaps 
you’ve still heard him making his rounds 
between 8:30 and 5:00 every weekday, 
traveling between concert halls, practice 
rooms, and studios on campus. Each 
session takes him about an hour and a 
half, which means he tunes around four 
or five pianos every single day. Harold’s 
job requires more than simply tuning 
each piano, though. As I interrupt his 
session in Woolsey Hall, he’s adjust­
ing what’s called a “backcheck”, a small 
block that catches the hammer so that 
it doesn’t bounce too far away from the 
string, allowing a pianist to repeat a note 
very quickly.


Harold grew up not far from 
New Haven in the town of Guilford, 
Connecticut, 
and 
studied 
physics 
at Hampshire College in Amherst, 
Massachusetts for two years. He had no 
formal piano training before college, but 
he started teaching himself to play on 
a friend’s keyboard, “to distract myself 
from all the physics.” At first, he taught 
himself by ear, improvising blues and 
jazz-inspired tunes, which he wordlessly 
describes by turning to the piano in front 
of him. “At Hampshire, my sound was 
all—” he improvises for a few minutes, 
leaning deep into the keys to churn out 
bluesy licks and progressions, reminisc­
ing on the soulful sounds that first drew 
him to the instrument.


“Physics and music—you’re learn­
ing all about wave forms, and about 
how sound waves interact with each 
other . . . that was the perfect thing to be 
studying to do this because in the end, 
this is a mechanical acoustical phenom­
enon,” he explains. After graduating 
from Hampshire with degrees in both 
Physics and Music, he began working at 
the Sohmer Piano Factory in Ivoryton, 
Connecticut, much to his parents’ cha­
grin (“You go to college to get out of the 
factory!”). Forty years later, he’s still in 
love with his craft. He employs his phys­
ics degree as he describes the tuning pro­
cess, explaining, “If you have two notes 
that are in perfect tune, then the crest 
and the troughs and wavelengths are all 
coherent. The waves are the exact same 
frequency and each crest is matching up 
with each crest.”


Harold bends down to sift through 
his bag of tools, reaching for an oddly 
shaped wrench and two small rubber 
wedges. Although I myself am a pianist, 
the inner mechanism of the instru­
ment is still largely a mystery to me, so 
Harold invites me to peer into the piano 
with him as he launches into a patient 
demonstration of his process. Using the 
wrench, he starts to turn a tuning pin––a 
small knob that, when twisted, tightens 
or loosens a string in the piano, raising 
or lowering the pitch it produces. Each 
note is produced by three separate strings 
that are hit simultaneously by one ham­
mer, so he must make sure that they’re 
all completely in tune with each other, 
and in equal temperament with the rest 
of the piano. He pounds the key as he 
tunes, moving his hand with the sound 
waves being produced by the two strings. 
He’s revealed something I wouldn’t have 
picked up on before—a beat within the 
sound, a wavering that lines up with the 
pulsing motion he’s making with his 
hand. He has a finely honed ability to 
hear that discordance, when the sound 
waves are “out of cycle,” as well as a tuner 
app on his phone, and he uses both to 
wiggle the tuning pin into its rightful 
place. After a few adjustments, the note 
rings out clearly.


“Sometimes, over the years, just like 
anything else you do forever, there are 
some days where I’m just like, ‘what am 
I doing? I’m tuning a piano—what’s 
a piano?’” Harold admits to brief mo-
ments of existential crisis about a job
where he is “just tightening and loos­
ening strings all day,” but immediately 
thereafter he adds, with a hint of disbe­
lief at his own good fortune, that “I’ve 
been doing this for a long time, and it’s 
still cool to me, isn’t that weird? I was 
lucky, you know?”


Harold has a riveting disposition. 
You can tell that he doesn’t often get the 
chance to talk about himself, and now 
that he has someone’s full attention, he 
barrels forward and answers questions 
without even needing to be asked. In a 
drawling voice, he speeds through phys­
ics-heavy explanations, graciously check­
ing for comprehension every few minutes.


“You got that?” he asks, making eye 
contact.


“Uh-huh,” I say, nodding along, “and 
how––”


I don’t get my question in, but it’s 
O.K., because he’s started talking about 
something far more interesting.


“The ultimate goal is to make myself 
as invisible as I can, and the best way to 
do that is to do my job.” He tunes pianos 
before rehearsals and performances, long 
before anyone else has arrived. He tries 
to finish fifteen minutes before he’s sup­
posed to, as it makes everyone nervous 
to see him doing last-minute touch-
ups on the piano. Today, we’re sitting at 
the Steinway that lives in Woolsey Hall, 
Yale’s largest and most opulent recital 
hall, in preparation for a concert in the 
afternoon. This is already the third time 
this week that he’s tuned this specific 
piano, which seems both tedious and 
excessive, but he insists it is important 
for the success of tonight’s performance.


“Well, you know, if something [goes] 
wrong I can always blame you, right?” he 
chuckles.


“Sure,” I offer. I’m definitely distract­
ing him.


“No. I can’t. I can’t blame anybody, 
it’s my responsibility to get this thing 
done. I can’t blame anybody else,” he says
with finality.


While he defends that it’s his 
responsibility to make sure the piano is 
in working order, he admits that he used 
to be tempted to make excuses for flaws 
in tuning jobs, likening this to inexperi­
enced musicians who are quick to blame 
their instrument for flaws in their perfor­
mance. He won’t give me any names, but 
he recounts a story of an accomplished 
pianist who was rehearsing in Woolsey 
Hall a few years back and complained 
about the piano action. Harold took a 
look inside the piano, even though he 
had just spent two days perfecting every­
thing within it. It was flawless.


“I see what the problem is, but I need 
a half an hour,” he told them. When the 
pianist returned from a walk twenty-five 
minutes later, Harold was pretending 
to finish up by twisting a tiny screw in 
the action (which he had simply rotated 
back and forth a few times). He set the 
piano up exactly the way it was half an 
hour earlier. The pianist re-attempted 
their piece, and Harold received a rous­
ing round of thank yous for whatever 
miracle he had performed.


In this way and in countless others, 
Harold has been the unsung hero of 
hundreds of concerts held at Yale over 
the past twenty-five years. He’s set to 
retire at the end of this year, and he has 
a surprising plan for his well-earned 
free time.


“I’ve been taking [piano] lessons,” he 
says, “and I practice two or three hours 
a day when I come home, so I’ll have 
something to do.”


He closes our interview by playing 
a full piece on the freshly-tuned piano, 
one he’s been working on with his piano 
teacher that’s been giving him a little 
bit of trouble. It’s a tango by Alberto 
Ginastera, and it sounds lovely. It’s not 
nearly the most difficult piece that’s 
been played on this stage, but William 
Harold plays with a remarkable amount 
of sensitivity. He’s spent the past forty 
years getting to know this instrument, 
inside and out, and now he’s finally get­
ting a chance to play. ∎


Cora Hagens is a junior in
Grace Hopper College.


**Title: Gilgamesh to Enkidu**
**Author: Edie Lipsey**
**Page number(s): 54**

We are becoming human together
Washing dishes in the morning
Pulling spoons from the disposal
You move in your sleep so much it startles me
Temple to Temple
We are slow to rise 
Wildly,
You say,
It takes so long to become a person


**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 55**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The New Journal was founded in 1967, under the following mission statement: “This university has once again reached that stage in history when people 
are talking about the New Yale, presumably to be distinguished from the Old Yale, which in its own day was presumably considered new. Wishing to 
share in this modernity, we have chosen The New Journal as the name for our publication. Besides, things seemed slow around here.”

Today, The New Journal is published five times during the academic year by The New Journal at Yale, Inc. Two thousand five hundred 
copies of each issue are distributed free to members of the Yale and New Haven community. The New Journal is printed by TCI Press, 
Seekonk, Massachusetts; bookkeeping and billing services are provided by Colman Bookkeeping of New Haven. Office Address: 
P.O. Box 3311, New Haven, CT 06515.

While this magazine is published by Yale College students, Yale University is not responsible for its contents. All contents 
Copyright ©2022 by The New Journal at Yale, Inc. All rights reserved. Reproduction either in whole or in part without written 
permission of the publisher and editors in chief is prohibited. Recycle Icon from Flaticon.com.


**Title: ANSWER TO PREVIOUS (NOVEMBER) PUZZLE**

PLAY MORE TNJ 
CROSSWORDS ON
OUR WEBSITE!
thenewjournalatyale.com
/about/crossword/
P
L
E
A
S
 
R
C
Y
T
H
I
 
M
G
Z
N
ACROSS
	
1	 Visitor’s center 
giveaways
	 5	 Envelope contents
at a b’nai mitzvah
	 9	 H.S. Junior’s exam
	 13	 Heart condition, 
post-breakup
	 14	 When la luna shines
	 15	 Elects (to)
	 16	 One commuting like 
*that*, say
	 18	 Controversial “Space 
Jam” character
	 19	 There’s been a 
breakout at the zoo, 
and it’s your job to 
find the animals!
First, head to the 
casino to get . . .
	 21	 Italian violin
virtuoso Niccolò
	 23	 “___ friend is one
who walks in when 
the rest of the world 
walks out”
— Walter Winchell
	 25	 Rave genre
	 26	 Next, go to the ice 
cream parlor to . . .
	 29	 Rolls-___
	 31	 “I see a mouse!”
	 32	 Having a crush on
	 33	 Word in many
shoppe names
	36	 ___ Dog, Andy’s 
nickname on
“The Office”
	 38	 Model Hadid
	 41	 Implement simulated 
by an ergometer
	43	 Time-intensive 
part of the college 
application process
	 47	 Then, take a trip to 
the hospital to . . .
	 51	 Sheridan of “Ready 
Player One”
	 52	 Periods in office
	 53	 One who might 
investigate your 
return
	 55	 Last, travel to the 
clubhouse to . . .
	 58	 “Just 5 more minutes”
	59	 Bathtime mix-in
	 62	 Ancient etching
	63	 Garlicky sauce
	64	 One said to have 
fiddled through a fire
	65	 Teeny
	66	 Feature of a
prideful male?
	 67	 Pull out, as a gun
or a card
DOWN
	
1	 Place to cleanse
your sole?
	 2	 It usually defeats a 
king or queen
	 3	 Like frequent Kleenex 
consumers
	 4	 “Adios!”
	 5	 Beer testing the 
theory “any press is 
good press”
	 6	 Parents’ 
admonishment when 
dropping their child 
off for a playdate
	 7	 Butter used in
many lotions
	 8	 Partner of His
	 9	 Images developing 
before your eyes
	 10	 Talked about
	 11	 “If not more”
	 12	 Wand-waving org.
	 14	 Polite refusal to a 
male supervisor
	 17	 BIC competitor
	20	 War zone for Forrest 
Gump, briefly
	 21	 Word connecting
a distance and a
time, say
	 22	 Hullabaloo
	24	 Star of “The Great 
Gatsby,” to fans
	 27	 Doll that often
comes shirtless
	 28	 Lead-in to an
alter ego
	30	 Make a mint, or
what a mint makes
	34	 ___-wop
	 35	 It might pop at high 
altitudes
	 37	 Makes “it” again?
	 38	 Prime Meridian std.
	39	 Gives the cold 
shoulder
	40	 People waiting 
around in Paris?
	 42	 Ruins, as a parade
	 44	 Like Big Ben or
Mean Joe Greene
	45	 Novelist Rand
	46	 So far
	48	 Seminoles sch.
	49	 New Orleans cuisine
	 50	 “Me too,” formally
	54	 Thyroid or liver, e.g.
	56	 Group striving for the 
same goal
	 57	 Capital of Samoa
	 58	 ___ Lanka
	60	 Lead-in to “la-la”
	 61	 Miss piggy?
Animal Crossing
Puzzle by Jesse Goodman
© The New Journal
January 2023
55


**Title:  A Celebration of The New Journal**
**Page number(s): 56**

Join us for a 
celebration of 
The New Journal.
To celebrate the New Journal’s newest honor—named America’s “Best Student Magazine” 
this past June by the Society of Professional Journalists—all are invited to a series of panels 
discussing strategies for creating the best journalism, in any publication and anywhere: the 
campus, the nation, and the world. New Journal grads speaking in person at these panels 
will be here from The Atlantic, Bloomberg, CBS, Economist, Foreign Affairs, Harper’s, 
Mississippi Today, New York Times, New Yorker, NPR, Paris Review, Pro Publica, Report 
for America, Science, Victoria Advocate, Washington Post, and more.

This event will be hosted in the Branford College Common Room (74 High Street), and it 
is free and open to the public. Info at www.thenewjournalatyale.com/events/.

Some Committed or Likely Attendees: Maya Averbuch, Bloomberg Mexico reporter  •  Neela Banerjee, NPR Supervising Climate Editor  •  Spencer Bokat-lindell, 
NYT Opinion Editor  •  Richard Bradley, Worth Editor  •  Andy Court, CBS 60 Minutes Producer  •  Susan Dominus, NYT Magazine Staff Writer  •  Romy Drucker, 
Walton Family Foundation, Director of K-12 Education Program  •  Eliza Fawcett, NYT Reporter  •  Jacque Feldman, Freelance to New Yorker, Nation, and Paris 
Review  •  Haley Cohen gilliland, YJI, Economist, National Geographic  •  Paul Goldberger, Architecture Criticism, Pulitzer at NYT  •  David Greenberg, Professor 
at Rutgers, Politico Magazine Contributing Editor and more  •  Sophie Haigney, Paris Review Web Editor, The Drift Contributing Editor, Freelance to NYT & New Yorker 
and more  •  Charlotte Howard, Economist Executive Editor and New York Bureau Chief  •  Anya Kamenetz, Education writer including years at NPR  •  Tina Kelley, 
Education Reporter, NJ.com via NYT  •  Eli Kintisch, Science Writer  •  Dan Kurtz-Phelan, Foreign Affairs Editor-in-Chief  •  Sarah Laskow, Atlantic Science Editor 
•  Ray Lipstein, New Yorker Web Producer  •  Ben Mueller, NYT Reporter  •  Amelia Nierenberg, NYT Reporter  •  Meghan O’rourke, The Yale Review  •  Julia 
Preston, Marshall Project after NYT  •  Adriane Quinlan, Curbed Writer, after CNN, Vice, and more  •  Mark Rosenberg, Victoria Advocate (TX) Reporter  •  Annie 
Rosenthal, Public radio reporter in Texas  •  Elena Saavedra-buckley, Harper’s Associate Editor, The Drift Editor  •  Arya Sundaram, WNYC Radio & Gothamist  • 
Aliyya Swaby, ProPublica Reporter in Texas  •  John Swansburg, Atlantic Editor  •  Ike Swetlitz, Bloomberg Biotech-Health Reporter  •  Isabelle Taft, Mississippi Today 
Reporter  •  Christopher Whipple, Author after ABC News  •  Daniel Yergin, Pulitzer winner for The Prize and TNJ Founder  •  Jada Yuan, Washington Post Reporter

