Publication date: March 2, 1984
Volume: 16
Issue number: 5

**MASTHEAD**
- Publisher: Hilary Callahan
- Editor-in-Chief: W. Hampton Sides
- Designer: Tom McQuillen
- Photography Editor: Christine Ryan
- Business Managers: Robert Moore, Peter Phleger
- Managing Editors: Jim Lowe, Morris Panner
- Production Manager: Tony Reese
- Associate Business Managers: Katie Kressmann, Vanessa Sciarra, Marilynn Sager
- Associate Editors: Anne Applebaum, Paul Hofheinz
- Art Editor: Beth Callaghan, Laura Pappano, Tina Kelley
- Associate Photography Editor: Mark Fedors
- Associate Production Managers: Lauren Rabin, Christianna Williams
- Circulation Manager: Rob Lindeman
- Staff: Christina Baker, Joyce Banerjee, Rich Blow, Nicholas Christakis, Eduardo Cruz, Larry Goon, Dani Morrow, Betsy Nix, Sally Sloan, Corinne Tobin, Andrea Fribush, Katie Winter


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
Letters - 4
John Kerry: Campaigns of the New Soldier - Tina Kelley - 8
Kristaps Keggi: Second Opinions of an Army M.D. - Joyce Banerjee - 12
Dick Pershing: Letters from Quang Tri - Paul Hofheinz and Morris Panner - 18
The Thirty-Four - 26
William Sloane Coffin: The Uncomfortable Gospel - Anne Applebaum - 28
Arthur Galston: The War Against the Withering Rain - W. Hampton Sides - 34
Rethinking the Sixties Myth - W. Hampton Sides - 6
Getting Back to the Garden - Jack Fuller - 42
Renegades and Troublemakers - Jerry Brucie - 48
Chronology: The War Years: Yale and Vietnam from 1964-1973 - Jim Lowe and Tony Reese


**Title: Letters**
**Author:  Various**
**Page number(s): 4**


**Title: John Kerry: Campaigns of the New Soldier**
**Author: Tina Kelley**
**Page number(s): 8**

When a Yale graduate left Vietnam in 1969, he came home with three Purple 
Hearts and a commitment to speak for the veterans' growing anti-war 
movement. This leading war protester now wants to return to the Capitol as a 
Massachusetts senator.


**Title: Kristaps Keggi: Second Opinions of an Army M.D.**
**Author: Joyce Banerjee**
**Page number(s): 12**

A supporter of U.S. involvement in Vietnam learns to live with liberal views 
and war-time memories.


**Title: Dick Pershing: Letters from Quang Tri**
**Author: Paul Hofheinz and Morris Panner**
**Page number(s): 18**

Richard W. Pershing, class of 1966, died in combat somewhere near Hung 
Nohn, Vietnam, on February 17, 1968. His death brought the war home for 
a generation of Yale students.


**Title: The Thirty-Four**
**Page number(s): 26**

A tribute to those from Yale who gave their lives and left their names.


**Title: William Sloane Coffin: The Uncomfortable Gospel**
**Author: Anne Applebaum**
**Page number(s): 28**

Yale's controversial chaplain from 1958-1974 provided sanctuary to draft 
resisters and helped to hold the university together during the most radical years.


**Title: Arthur Galston: The War Against the Withering Rain**
**Author: W. Hampton Sides**
**Page number(s): 34**

How a botanist unwittingly discovered the formula for Agent Orange and later 
led the fight against chemical defoliants in Vietnam.


**Title: Rethinking the Sixties Myth**
**Page number(s): 6**

"was it really as glamorous as all that?"


**Title: Getting Back to the Garden**
**Author: Jack Fuller**
**Page number(s): 42**

"I had returned to an even bleaker battlefront than the one I had left."


**Title: Renegades and Troublemakers**
**Author: Jerry Brucie**
**Page number(s): 48**

We were hardly heroes, but we dreamed heroic dreams.


**Title: Chronology: The War Years: Yale and Vietnam from 1964-1973**
**Author: Jim Lowe and Tony Reese**
**Page number(s):  (Page number not explicitly stated in provided text)**



**The AIDS Issue: A Question of Journalistic Ethics**
**Author: John M. Dwyer, M.D., Ph.D.**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
To the Editor:

It was with considerable disappointment and frustration that I read your article, "Lana: A Story of Scarlet Letters and Public Risks" that appeared in the December 9th issue of The New journal.

Yale University has always been a champion of the rights of the individual, stressing the uniqueness, importance and dignity of each person. Therefore it was extremely disappointing to find a Yale student publishing information in a Yale journal that ignores these basic values. You can certainly argue strongly that in the current epidemic of AIDS the public has a right to know any epidemiological information that may help prevent the· further dissemination of this serious illness. On the other hand, one would hope that as a responsible journalist you would make sure that in presenting such knowledge to the public you would not risk damaging one or more lives that are already seriously compromised and underprivileged.

Your story is doubly disturbing for apart from the callous disregard of one less fortunate's privacy, you have also been dishonest. Entering the hospital without permission, tracking down a patient whose name and condition were no business of yours, forcing your way into her room and offering to pay her if she would give you her story are all reprehensible acts. While, of course, I cannot prove it, I have reason to believe that the statements made to you by my patient were at best misquoted or perhaps even fabricated. Obviously what was said at that meeting is known only to you and my patient but I know her well and in discussing her problem with her frankly on numerous occasions, she has never suggested that she was unconcerned about her potential for infecting others. She has never verbalized thoughts such as, "It's too late to start worrying about it now." Your publication of such words, carrying with it all the inferences that suggest a lack of concern for one's fellow man, are most unfortunate.

Your photographer had no right to take his photographs inside St. Raphael's Hospital and then compound that violation with the dishonest inference in the article that the isolation room shown was where the baby in question was being kept. A number of readers have commented to us that it seems cruel to have kept the baby in such a small crib for such a long period of time. The fact, of course is that the baby, who is now walking, is not confined in such a manner at all. Obviously the article was read by my patient. In it she reads that the doctors feel that her baby will probably die within the next year. Neither I nor the attending pediatrician on the case believe that. We have never said such a thing to the mother. Obviously her confidence in us is shaken to read such a thing in the press. A cruel and inaccurate statement on your part.

Equally disturbing was your comment that doctors are waiting for her to develop the devastating extreme form of AIDS. Again, all my efforts have been directed in assuring her, on the basis of the strong evidence that we have collected, that were she to avoid further exposure to those situations known to be associated with the risk of contracting AIDS, her disease would be unlikely to progress.

Obviously there have been many breakdowns in the privacy any patient should expect when giving information to medical providers. Much of the information that you have obtained you simply had no right to know and certainly no right to use. Who told you that her routine urine tests had revealed that she was back on heroin and that subsequently she had been dropped from a methadone program? How was it that you could obtain the results of her T cell counts? Your ability to find out such matters obviously makes all the patients with AIDS and AIDS related problems that we care for concerned that confidentiality in their case may break down.

In my mind the whole matter raises serious questions about whether some closer faculty supervision should not be supplied for the work of The New journal. If you use these comments constructively then it is my hope that the bad judgement that you showed on this occasion will not be repeated.

Sincerely, 
John M. Dwyer, M.D., Ph.D.
Associate Professor of Medicine
and Pediatrics
Chief, Clinical Immunology


Since February, Dr. Dwyer has acknowledged to the local press that Yale-New Haven Hospital is currently treating three other patients for early stages of AIDS. In addition, the AIDS clinic has seen three males whose only suspected exposure to AIDS is through contact with prostitutes.


**Public's Right to Know**
**Author: W. Hampton Sides**
**Page number(s): 5**

The author responds:

• I entered St. Raphael's Hospital with full permission from officials there and followed the proper pass procedures. My name was entered in the guestbook and I was given protective clothing by the floor nurse before entering the patient's room. Our photographer received formal permission from the floor nurse at Yale-New Haven hospital to take photographs of the isolation rooms.

• I did not "force my way" into the patient's room. My visit was announced by the nurse. I knocked on Lana's door and was invited in. She spoke with me for almost an hour, fully aware my account would be reported in a Yale magazine. I honored her wish not to be directly quoted or cited by name. The resulting paraphrase is entirely accurate.

• I made every effort to protect Lana's anonymity. I understood the potential consequences that my reporting might have for her from the beginning. Our decision to run the story came after much soul-searching. The executive board of the magazine felt then and now that the public issues and dangers were too important to conceal.

• My assertion that Lana's baby "will probably die within a year" was supported by Lisa Stone of the New Haven Health Department and reported in several articles by Joan Barbuto of the New Haven Register. According to the Center for Disease Control in Atlanta, no stage-three AIDS patient has ever survived.

• My statement that "doctors are waiting for Lana to develop the devastating extreme form of AIDS" was based on information supplied by Ms. Stone.

• Dr. Dwyer refused to be interviewed for the story about Lana, despite my several requests. According to his secretary he was "too busy" and referred me to Dr. Randolph Young, whom I cited in the article. However, Dr. Dwyer, who appeared on 60 Minutes on February 19 with Morley Safer, confirmed not only that Lana has second-stage AIDS, but admitted that she posed a significant threat to public health.

• As for "faculty supervision," The New Journal has no faculty supervisors, nor does it intend to get any.

- W. Hampton Sides


**Congratulations**
**Author: The New Journal**

The New Journal is happy to announce the election of Tina Kelley as its new Editor-in-Chief. She was elected on February 15. Tina joined the magazine last January and has been an associate editor since last April. She wrote the profile of John Kerry in this issue.

Tina will continue the leadership of graduating Editor-in-Chief Hampton Sides. She is already planning for her first issue, scheduled to appear in April. We wish her the best of luck.


**In Appreciation**

TNJ would like to thank the Masters' Offices for their generous contributions to this project, offered in honor of graduates and students of their colleges who gave their lives in Vietnam.

Without the support of the Masters, this issue, reflecting on Yale's involvement in the war, would not have been possible.

Berkeley, Branford, Calhoun, Jonathan Edwards, Morse, Saybrook, and Timothy Dwight Colleges have all contributed.


**Title: Rethinking the Sixties Myth**
**Author: W. Hampton Sides**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Rethinking the Sixties Myth 
W. Hampton Sides 
The last Amt•t ican soldit•t kfl Sai~on II years ago this 
month. but tht· \'i<.·tn.un <.'ta hng<-rs in its own way. For 
some tht• period of <,tudcnt protest now seems a quirk of 
history, a frivolou-. and misguidt·d amtir. But for many 
young peoplt•. it ha)i hl'f011ll' a subconscious soun·e or in-
timidation: Why, W<' may ask oursdves, "A-ere the P<'opk 
and th<.· idt•as and tlw music so alivt• and novel and spon-
taneous then? Why docs collq.{<' life appear so static and 
picked over today~ \\'hy ha\l' we !'<tiled to break m·w 
ground? 

Living in the shadcl\\ of.John Lt·nnon and Abbie Hofl'-
man and Martin l.uthn King. Wl' cannot<.·asil~ picture our 
C1wn timt· a~ a part of hi,ton . l\1anv of out· t'ndea,·ors seem 
to palt• into tn'iignifirann: wlwn compared to the glamour 
and tht• gravity of tlw rnolution that pn•ceclcd us. Some of 
us wish that\\(' too 1 ould bt• pluggt•d into sonwthing- larg<.·r 
than ourst•ht•,, likt• thost• faint, almost imaginary figure-; 
who suppowdh man lwd "ith angt·r· through tear gas. 
against tlw flag. It ts ,, dilli< uh fi>lklorc to get beyond. 

Of course, the Vit•tnam t•ra could not rt'allv have been as 
glamorous as all that. The students who li~ed through it 
were surely just as confused and st'lfish as we are today. 
Those glorious marcht•s on Washin~lOn, I am wid, were 
often nothing mon· than grandiose t'xcuses for socializing. 
The difference was that the draft was clamping down on 
them. Nineteen-year-old kids were dying in what seemed a 
senseless war on the other side of the planet. So Vietnam 
enabled students at home to throw themselves into an 
uncertain situation and come away from it with a feeling 
that they had left a mark. However naive or self-indulgent, 
they were surely part of something, part of some momen-
tous scene running through time. 

In the liH·ral sense, tlwse arc conservative times at Yale, 
and conservatism bv its nature abhors a fire. What are we 
conserving? Tht• fu~·l of the sixties without its flame. The 
methods of the sixties without that passion for st'cing novel-
ty around cverv bend. Instead of thinking of the upheaval 
in Central America as ant'"" and distinct problem, we tend 
to think of it a!> "another Viet narn. ~ The mvth of the sixties 
has also had the unfortunate t'llect of making students feel 
as though they must wt•ar the mantle of some political per-
suasion, that they must expr<.·ss themselves in some ,-ocal or 
visible way, without kno'"ing \\hy. Activism has for many 
become an end in it'>t'lf. 

F<'" ,,._·opll' h." t ' htTn a hit· to l.{t'rwratt• the colleuivt· 
t-motion th.u tlw thinkt•r, .tnd politi< ians and pcrfornwr' of 
tht• babv hoom t'r:t \\t'll' ahk to gt·nt•ralt' on campus. I rom 
l\fakolm X 10 Glon.1 Stt'lllt'lll to Jim :'\1m-ri<;on to I. f. 
Stone. ;'limhin~ i' hittm~ dtmn dt·ep in tlv·ir imaginations 
and p<>S'-l''-'illl{ thl'lll ,,, t)lll,t' angr·y, .tlmost imagina~ 
tl'enagt·rs in the \ u·tn;llll ~''·' 11111st "·" t• l)(•t•n posse\«ed. 
()r "t•n• t hn·) Pl'r h.tp' t h<' "'" to c•mn i'e the old -;pi r·it 
that pt-rsist-- tod.tv j, to look at 'onw of' the peopk "ho li' l'd 
through that turbuknt time here at Yale. One finds that 
thmrl{h this plan· was quite differ<·nt then, the pt•ople wert' 
n·markablv tlw same. And through all those pean:nik 
..,logans and soul songs of the countt'rculture, tht·re's a 
familia~·· bright. ~rt·t· r. college kid up against an unfamiliar 
Sl'l of < II'<'UIItstant t·~ Ht· was no extraordinary t-reature. Lie 
was sirnply winging 11. 

Ovt•r three million Americans served in Vietnam, and 
more than 57,000 never returned. Thirty-four of those who 
died wt•rt• Yak· alumni or students, their names now etched 
into the.• marbk of Woolsey H all alongside the fallen war-
riors from Amt•rica's past. 

But Yak'., im olvenwnt in Vietnam t'Xtt>ndcd well 
ht·vmlCI thi~ 'iOit·mn list of names. As one of Amc.:rica's dite 
in,titution~. Yalt• produn·d dozens of lead<'rs and polic.·y-
m.tker' on both .,ide., of tlw fem·e. peoplt' like A, erdl Har-
ritu.m. \1c Gt·orgt• Bumh·. Staughton Lynd, Eugcnt• 
Rw.tm'. D.tH· Dellinger and Cyrus \'ance. The t•xarnples 
go on and on. aptly c.•nding \\ ith l\1aya Lin. a 1981 Yale.· ar-
c hi t<.·ttun· major "hn designed the cont rovtTsial \'ietnam 
\\'ar .\lt·morial in \\'ashington. 

In this issue we tell the stories of five less familiar Yale 
people and their lives during the Vietnam era: Dick Per-
shing. grandson of Gt'neral John Pershing and a 1966 
graduate of Yale, who died in combat in Vietnam in 1968; 
Arthur Galston, a Yale plant biologist, who unwittingly 
discoven·d an early formula for the chemical defoliant 
Agent Orange in 1943 and later played a major role in the 
governmt•nt's decision to stop the spraying in Vietnam; 
William Sloam· Collin, Yale's outspoken chaplain from 
1<>58-1974. who was criticized for providing sanctuary to 
draft resistt•rs and praised for holding the university 
together during the most radical years; John Kerry, Yale 
'66, who fought in Vietnam, won three Purple Hearts, 
or~anized tht· Veterans Against the War and is now run-
ning for Senatt• in Massachusetts; and Dr. Kristaps Keggi, 
a Yale.• Collc.·ge and Medical School graduate, who served 
from 1965 to 1967. V..'e have also reprinted a story from Tht 
.\'n( Journal of 1971 by Yale Law graduate Jack Fuller, 
\\ho'ie new novel about Vietnam, Fr~ts, was published 
la<;t month. Finally, the co-founder of ThL Ntw Journal of 
I 967. .Jcrrv Bruck, writes about his days at Yale. 

Throughout, '"e hope to sh<'d light on the Vi~tnam period 
at Yale bv putting a face on this polemical subject. 

Our goal is to try to see Vietnam for what it was: an 
event of human proportions, an event that did not simply 
transpire.• in the pages of history, but was shaped by people 
ht•rt• at Yak \\hose lives were not so different from our 
O\\ n . 

• 
~~ · Hampton S1dts, a smior in Ezra Stilts, is Editor-in-chit' o' 
TNJ . 
v ~ 


**Title:  1964**
**Author:  N/A**
**Page number(s): 8**

1964 
1'2 h·h 
J ohn Kerry, '66, wins 
sophomore speaking prize. 
Speaks on "Civil Rights-
The Path to Patriotic Reali-
ty." 

II Apr 
Kingman B rt·ws~t·r, .J r. inaugunucd 
as 17t h prcsidt•nt of Yale. 

2 Aug 
North Vit•tnamcsc patrol boats an ack 
tht> Maddox in tht· Tonkin Gulf. A 
doubtful sel'ond inl'idcm rcportt'd 
two days lata. Amt•rit·an airnafl 
bomb North Vit·tnam for the first 
time latt'r this momh . 

7 Aug 
Congre" pa""' the-
T onkin Gulf 
Resolution gi,on~ .Juhn~on t'xtraor· 
chnan po"cr w act in S<>utheast 
Asi.1 

14 Ou 
Khn,i'>ht ht·' 
oustt·d: 
Lt·ooud 
Rrc7hncv 
Kt)\\~on 
n·platt·d In 

and 
Al..l .. ~t·i 
Alexander Kt·rcnsky \iSIIS Y<tk. 

26 Ort 
Lyndon .Johnson 
dt'ft'al\ 
Rilr rv 
Gold" .u..r for thc prcsodt·m \ . 

3 
ov 
Bob Dvl,on play, \\ltl<>l'e) Hall. 

14 No" 
Harqml lx··'" Y.olt•. 18· 14 

2 1 No\' 
9 Dec Kerry elected president 
of the Political Union. 


**Title: 1965**

1965 
27 J an 
.John Pum n·signs as lontball wad1 
for post "' Indiana U . Caron Cuzza, 
fnrmcrlv bat klit•ld 
C't>at h. 
named 
head tuat h. 

I Feb 
Y.olt• Corporation approvl's t•xtt·n<kd 
paricwl IH>u": I I am 10 midnight on 
Frid,oys .oncl Saturdays. 

9 Feb 
Sc:nawo \\ ayne Morse visits Yale: and 
aflat ks US polkv in Vit·tnam . 

10 Fc:b 
Poliut:al Unum oppost•s ~ithdrawal 
from South Vietnam. 72·:l4. 

II Feb 
Yale professors addrrss 600 students 
at a rally a~ainst US polin· in \'ic:t· 
nam 

13 Feb 
S tudents join m counter demonstra· 
tions for and a~tains t the war, about 
200 auend cach 

24 Feb 
Operation 
R ollon~t Thunder. sus· 
!<tined Amerocan bombin~t of 
unh 
Victn.tm. begins 

6 M ar 
Prom 1965. fcaturin~t appcarances b\ 
The Supremcs and Dukc Ellinl(ton. 

8 M ar 
Two marinc batt a loons land to defend 
Danang aorfic.-ld. the lirst American 
combat troops in Vietnam. 

Kerry addresses Vietnam Veterans' 
Against the War at "Operation 
Dewey Canyon Ill" in Washington. 


**Title: Campaigns of the New Soldier**
**Author: Tina Kelley**
**Page number(s): 9**

,John Kerry 
Campaigns of the New Soldier 
Tina Kelley 
WASHINGTON DC, April 19, 1971 
- They call it O peration Dewey Can-
yon III, successor to previous military 
moves in Vietnam. Eleven hundred 
men dressed in camouflage march 
towards the Capitol building, some in 
wheelchairs, some on crutches, all call-
ing for an end to fighting in Southeast 
Asia. T hey are the Vietnam Veterans 
Against the War, the first group of 
soldiers in American history to demand 
the end of a war still in progress. Dur-
ing this week some camp out on the 
Mall, some throw their medals on the 
steps of the Capitol and some turn 
themselves into the Pentagon for their 
war crimes. One hundred ten demon-
strators are arrested and later released. 

john Forbes Kerry, a clean-cut Yale 
graduate described as "the least likely 
protester in the entire organization," 
speaks before the Senate Foreign Rela-
tions Committee, justifying this "limited 
incursion into the country of Congress." 
Dressed in an olive drab uniform, he 
asks, "H ow do you ask a man to be the 
last man to die in Vietnam? How do 
you ask a man to be the last man to die 
for a mistake?" 

BOSTON MA, January 26, 1984-
Lieutenant Governor of Massachusetts 
john Kerry announces his intention to 
run against 
Republican Edward 
Markey for the U.S. Senate seat 
vacated by Paul Tsongas. Kerry hopes 
to return to the country of Congress to 
work inside the Capitol, not on its steps. 
"fve always said basically the same 
thing. I think I'm being true to the 
points of view I came back from Viet-
nam with," Kerry says in his persistent 
baritone. "I think I've grown up a bit 
since then, but my basic thrust is for a 
government that cares for its people, 
cares for the rest of the world , and cares 
to protect itself." 

NEW H AVEN CT, June 12, 1966-
John Kerry addresses his graduating 
class on the Old Campus of Yale 
University. 
"We suddenly 
find 
ourselves ... dubbed the revolutionary 
generation," says Kerry, a member of 
Skull and Bones and the varsity soccer 
team. "This revolution is one of the 
strangest in history, for the revolu-
tionists bear no arms against their 
government, set up no street barricades 
. . . and with remarkably few excep-
tions, initiate no violence ... We are 
all entitled to choose our own battle. 
Society cannot force a man to join a 
fight he doesn't want." 

SOMEWH ERE NEAR THE ME-
KONG DELTA, VIETNAM, April 
1969- Lieutenant John Kerry, one of 
the most decorated naval officers of the 
war, earns his third purple heart for 
shrapnel wounds during his year-long 
tour of duty in Vietnam. Previously an 
officer on a guided missile frigate in the 
Gulf of Tonkin, he has served as the 
skipper of a patrol boat in the Mekong 
Delta. Kerry returns home to Mass-
achusetts, determined to protest against 
a war he has found to be immoral and 
wasteful. 

The tall, brown-haired young man with 
the Irish face was not earmarked for a 
"He wanted to go as far as possible, 
even to becoming President. It was very 
much in his political goals to model 
himself after Kennedy." 

career as a radical spokesman against 
the war. Kerry, whose father worked 
with the State Department and Army 
Air Corps during World War II, did not 
participate in anti-war activities as an 
undergraduate. "I think I was fairly 
moderate at that time," he now recalls. 
"I was not yet opposed to the war on 
ideological terms." The year he 
graduated a Yale Political Union poll 
found 
strong student 
support 
for 
continuing the war in Vietnam. Kerry 
had been president of the Union his 
junior year, and served as chairman of 
the Liberal Party and as treasurer of the 
Young Democrats. H e also won several 
oratory prizes, and was a member of 
the Yale Debating Association. 

"As far as I thought, he was, even at 
that time, very ambitious and very 
much one to carve out a political 
... career," said a fellow member of 
Skull and Bones that year. "He wanted 
· to go as far as possible, even to becom-
ing President. It was very much in his 
political goals to model himself after 
Kennedy." 

Kerry had signed a contract with the 
Navy in 1965 as an alternative to going 
to graduate school. He felt a respon-
sibility "to give something back to the 
country." But by the time he arrived in 
Vietnam in 1968, Yale's view of the war 
had changed significantly, and so had 
Kerry's. 

"By the time I went over, there was 
considerable unrest here," he says. "I 
had 
some serious reservations. 
I 
doubted if the United States was follow-
ing actions which could achieve its 
ends, I questioned the legality of the 
government we were working with, and 
I wondered if we should be part of a 
civil war, if we could have any impact 
there. A lot of us in the service were 
asking that at that point, questioning, 
but finding no real answers." He sensed 
a similar uncertainty in the South Viet-
namese. "In the Vietnamese Regional 
The- New .Journai/Mar.·h 2. 1!184 !I 



**John Kerry and the Vietnam War**
**Author: Tina Kelky**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Popular Resistance Forms then' was very little detail to fight ... It seriously hurt American morale.
"Once you got over there, you'd see with your own eyes how it worked out. There were lots of people who asked what the hell we were doing there. [Our unit] responded by becoming outspoken in opposition to what we were doing. We debated with ourselves and our superior officers. Some of our superiors agreed and sent messages back to Saigon, others didn't.
"When I was skipper of a swift boat on the rivers over there," Kerry recalls, "I got into serious arguments about our shooting at targets. We did not see, at the free-fire zones, at sampans. You might fire at an old grandmother or grandfather and you did not know if they were VietCong. What was the morality of that? Or we'd be ordered to destroy little villages and saw no object in it. We'd just be denying our own capability to win over the people later. I think our unit bent over backwards to see that people were removed whenever possible. We'd take them to hospitals, we even delivered babies.
"The absurdity of the missions, the corruption of the government we were trying to uphold, the inability to fight the kind of war we were trying to fight, all made it clear to me that we were on a mission that was wrong and wasteful."
Upon his return to the United States in 1969 he decided to speak out for an end to the war. "I think I began to have a better understanding of the duplicity of the governing process I hadn't had before," says Kerry, who was a political science major in Jonathan Edwards. "I began to understand the limits of foreign policy in real terms, not just those learned in the framework of a classroom. I saw a lot of questions to be answered—why did minorities bear the brunt of the fighting in Vietnam, why were there fewer of us from Yale over there? I gained a deep conviction of how you should and shouldn't approach another country."
During the 1971 march on Washington Kerry helped publicize these issues. Speaking before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee he said, "To attempt to justify the loss of one American life in Vietnam, Cambodia or Laos by linking such a loss to the preservation of freedom is to use the height of criminal hypocrisy. Our last mission is to search out and destroy the last vestige of this barbaric war."
Today, Kerry believes the march was a major success. "We got people to understand that a large number of veterans felt the same way a lot of people here had felt. It changed the whole complexion of the anti-war effort. Those who'd been afraid of speaking out against the war for fear of cutting down on 'support for the boys,' suddenly saw the troops were against it too."
However, Kerry and the VVAW received strong criticism from conservatives at home. In The National Review, William F. Buckley, Jr., '50, called their efforts "an assault on the proposition that what we have in America is truly worth defending," and asked, "How will the words of John Kerry stand up in years to come?"
Those words probably hurt Kerry in his unsuccessful Senate race in 1972, in which he says his past as an activist "came up significantly" as a campaign issue. Now he feels that his service in Vietnam has had a positive effect on his more recent political career. "I see a change in attitudes since 1972," he says. "There's a much greater tendency to accept Vietnam veterans and the difficulties they faced over there and when they returned." In Stanley Karnow's book Vietnam, Kerry is quoted saying, "The country didn't give a shit about the guys coming back, or what they'd gone through. The feeling towards them was, 'Stay away. Don't contaminate us with whatever you've brought back from Vietnam.'"
Veterans also had to cope with feelings of guilt for their wartime activities. In The New Soldier, Kerry's chronology of the march, written in 1971, which includes stories of brutality which veterans have painfully related, Kerry wrote, "Individuals are trying, by denying themselves the luxury of forgetting about their acts, to spare others the agony of having to commit them at some time in the future." He believes that effort has been partly successful. "Attitudes towards Central America and Lebanon are clearly influenced by the reservations this country has about its involvement in Vietnam."
In the epilogue to The New Soldier, Kerry wrote, "There are two Americas, the one the speeches are about, and the one we really are." He and the veterans' group he represented wanted to reconcile the two. "As for making speeches," Kerry now says of his lifelong practice, "it's our process to create change. You open your mouth and compel people to change their points of view."


**Yale Timeline: 1965-1966**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 12**

17 Apr 
150 students join in the "Manh on 
Wa~hington to End the War in Viet-
nanl." 
2 May 
T om Hayden. former chairman of 
Students for a Democrauc Society 
(SDS). addresses 300 ~tuden ts in SSS 
114. 
12 May 
National Security Advi~or M cGeorge 
Bundy joins with 
four 
faculty 
members in a nationally 
televi~d 
teach-in on Vietnam in the Law 
School Auditorium. 
26 .Jun 
American command in Saigon 
reports that Vietrong have put live 
South Vietnamese tnmbat regiments 
and nine battalion' nut nf dCtion in 
recent months. 
28 Sep 
21 Oct 
4 Nov 
16 Nov 
20 Nov 
Dec 
16 Dec 
25 Dec 
1966 
6 J an 
IRJ an 
6 Mar 
14 May 
12 Sep 
16 Sep 
22 Sep 
K r istaps 
K eggi '55, 
arrives in Saigon with 
the 
17 3r d 
Airborn e 
Division, the first regular 
a rmy unit deployed m 
Vietnam . 
Ronald Reagan speaks at the New 
Haven Arena. 
1000 students rally agaonst the use of 
civil disobedience. calling 11 "morally 
wrong." 
The Rolling Stones play in the New 
Tuition raised to S 1,950; room and 
board to Sl ,050. 
Harvard beats Yale, 13-0. 
American troop strength in Vietnam 
reaches nearly 200.000. 
SDS chapter formed at Yale; about 
50 initial members. 
Yale assistant 
history professor 
Stausthton Lynd visits Hanoi with 
Tom Hayden. 
J ohnson suspends bombinst of North 
Vietnam in an attempt to mduce the 
Communists to negoti<llt' 
Political Union attatks Lynd's visit to 
North Vietnam. 
Brcw•tcr criticizes Lynd\ trip. 
YDN poll linds 55 percent of students 
support the draft. 
SDS protests a draft deferment exam 
in New Haven. 
World's lirst Van de Craaf nu< lear 
accelera10r opens at Yale 
Socioloczy professor Roben Cook, 
campaigning for Con~tl't' s. attacks 
~ t udent apathy. 
Eu!{enc Rostow, Master of Trum-
bull, named Undersecretary of State 
for Political Affairs. 



**Title: An Army M.D.'s Second Opinion**
**Author: Joyce Banerjee**
**Page number(s): 13-14**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Kristaps Keggi 
An Army M.D:s Second Opinion 
Joyce Banerjee 
In one room of the large Victorian 
house in Middlebury, Connecticut, 
portraits of past Yale fencing teams line 
the wall. On a nearby bookcase, Anthony Grey's Saigon leans against a 
volume of Cmtury of Surgery. Close to the 
bookcase stands the slide screen. Dr. 
Kristaps Keggi of the Yale School of 
Medicine leans forward in his chair and 
presses the control button. The slide 
snaps into place. 

A group of white-coated men hides 
the soldier's face. His arm lies over the 
edge of the stretcher, and someone's 
hands rest delicately on his throat. His 
chest is tan and hairless, his pants tattered and muddy, and each of his thickly 
bandaged legs ends just below the 
knee. 

"They arrived by helicopter like this," 
says Keggi, "I operated on this guy five 
times and I couldn't save him." 

"The daily picture of the wounded 
was this soldier coming in. He was a 
radio operator hit by a Claymore mine: 
a little gadget that looks like a cigar box. 
It explodes into high velocity pellets, 
and it's close enough and low enough to 
blow the legs off. Everyone in his squad 
was wounded. He put on his own tourniquets, crawled to his radio, calibrated 
it and called in the helicopters. He 
stayed on the radio until every last man 
was evacuated. He was the last one 
brought in. He developed a malignant 
infection in his legs similar to gangrene, 
and it spread up and up and up ... " 

Dr. Keggi walks to the back of the 
room and turns on the lights. The tall, 
silver-haired man does not resemble the 
stereotypical anguished Vietnam survivor. His memories do not torment 
him. Rather, Keggi lives comfortably 
with his decision to serve in Vietnam 
and to return to a Yale violently opposed 
to the war. 

Born in Latvia in 1934, Kristaps 
Keggi grew up in the midst of World 
War II. Fleeing from the Russian Army, 
Keggi's family moved to Germany 
when he was ten. He still remembers 
the sound of planes strafing a train and 
the saturation bombings of Cologne. In 
1949, his family left Europe for the 
United States. Two years later Keggi 
entered Yale. He majored in French 
and was a nationally ranked fencer. 
Graduating in 1955, he studied surgery 
at Yale School of Medicine, where he 
later received his commission from the 
Army. 

In 1964, Keggi joined the Army and 
taught orthopedic surgery in El Paso, 
Texas. Then in February, 1965, he was 
placed on 12 hour alert, issued a duffle 
bag and rifle and asked to make out his 
will. Keggi left in August for Indochina 
with the 173rd Airborne Division, the 
first regular Army unit deployed in the 
Vietnam war. 

He had no moral qualms with 
American involvement in Southeast 
Asia. "We were there for a very 
idealistic reason: to give the average 
Vietnamese the chance for self-determination. I believe in that 100 percent," 
he explains. "We had no intention of 
staying in Vietnam as a colonial power. 
Had South Vietnam remained, 
it 
would've been like West Germany or 
South Korea. Under our system, the 
average Vietnamese would've had a lot 
"There was so much emotionalism over the 
war that, instead of seeing shades of grey, 
people would call you a fascist pig." 
more choice in what he wanted to do 
than under any other system." 

Upon his arrival in Saigon, Dr. 
Keggi traveled 15 miles north to Bien 
Hoa, the site of the Third Surgical Army 
Hospital. Quickly, Keggi realized 
he would not be working in ideal conditions. The hospital consisted of canvas 
tents arranged in a rectangle, with an 
artillery unit uncomfortably close by. 
Dust blew into the operating rooms 
from flights at a nearby airstrip. The 
unit had no blood storage facilities, and 
medicine was often limited. As Keggi 
remembers, the first time he asked for 
plaster of Paris, the corpsman gave him 
a box containing enough plaster for a 
half-dozen casts- the unit's entire supply. 

Though later in the war many physicians would protest any doctor's support 
of the Army-"an organization whose 
primary function is to kill"- Keggi does 
not see a conflict between his Hippocratic oath and his military career. 
Rather, he believes that his war experience proved to him the importance 
and humanity of his profession. "Our 
achievement in Vietnam was the saving 
of arms and legs and lives," says Keggi. 
"We were sending people back to walk 
again, to live, to function. It was a good 
job, it had its rewards and we did it as 
well as anyone." 

The attempt to save life and limb 
placed great demands upon the physicians of the Third MASH (Mobile Army 
Surgical Hospital). Operating sessions of 
12 and 14 hours were commonplace, though Keggi remembers 
one session which lasted over 30. At 
times of fewer casualties, the tedium of 
MASH life increased. Keggi and his 
tent-mates sometimes 
resorted to 
Hawkeye Pierce-type feats to relieve the 
boredom. Recalling his theft of a convoy of Navy goods, Keggi smiles wryly 
and explains, "On R&R in Bangkok, I 
met a Navy lieutenant who was number 
The New JournaVMan:h 2, 1984 13 


--- Page 14 ---

three in charge of the port of Saigon. I 
told him stories about our lack of 
penicillin and refrigeration, and he said 
we could get whatever we wanted at the 
Saigon Navy warehouses. Later, I filled 
out a stack of requisitions and went to 
Saigon. Well, the Army had sent a new 
colonel to be in charge of the port. We 
needed him to countersign the forms, 
but when we went to his office, he blew 
his stack. He signed only one of our 
1000 or so requisitions. So after we left 
his office, the lieutenant and I went to 
the Saigon PX and got some Army second lieutenant to countersign all the 
other forms. Pretty soon, we had the 
best outfitted MASH in Vietnam." 

Pranks like these helped Keggi cope 
with the tedium and strain. On a 
broader scale, Washington's handling of 
the war constantly frustrated and 
angered him. Keggi feels the fighting 
would have ended in six months had 
America properly utilized its great 
military superiority. "Fifty thousand 
deaths would have been avoided if we 
had fought the war the way it should've 
been fought: if we had been allowed to 
go after the North Vietnamese into 
Cambodia, if we would've bombed 
Hanoi and Haiphong and all the other 
places from where they were running 
arms into the south in 1965-66. The only time we bombed Hanoi like we 
bombed Europe in World War II was 
during Christmas of 1972. Soon after 
that, we were talking peace. It was the 
first time in the entire war when we 
fought realistically." 

While in Vietnam, Keggi learned 
that the national sentiment toward the 
war differed greatly from his own. 
Yale's anti-war position particularly annoyed him, and he was infuriated by 
faculty member Staughton Lynd's role 
in the peace movement. Lynd, an assistant professor of history from 1964 to 
1968, visited Hanoi during the winter 
of 1965-66. Keggi believes Lynd's actions indicated support of the North 
Vietnamese communist regime. Moreover, Lynd's trip proved to Keggi that 
civilians knew very little about the Vietnam situation. "People can do whatever 
they want in our democratic society," 
says Keggi. "But Lynd went to Vietnam 
when we had POWs there and was actively supporting the enemy. Our 
POWs were being tortured and shot, 
and some idiot from Yale went over 
there and came back with glorious 
reports saying that they were being 
treated well. Under normal circumstances of war, that's called treason." 

Despite his disagreement with Yale's 
anti-war stand, 
Dr. 
Keggi began


--- Page 15 ---

Keggi in the Vietnam highlands with the Montgnard chiefs.

**Title: Yale News: 1966-1967**
**Author:  [No Author Listed]**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

23 Sep 
Success of Coke machines in Morse 
and Calhoun dining halls forces 
YUDH to install the machines in all 
colleges. 

26 Sep 
Brewster calls Vietnam "a symptom 
of the inability of the world to keep 
peace" on "Meet the Press." 

27 Sep 
One-third of law students sign a 
peace petition for Rostow to hand to 
Johnson. 

30 Sep 
The $8.5 million Park Plaza opens its 
doors. 

2 Oct 
Rev. William Sloane Coffin and 
Richard 
Russell 
move 
to send 
medical supplies to North and South 
Vietnamese civilians. 

3 Oct 
Lt. Gen. Lewis B. Hershey, director 
of Selective Service, speaks to the 
PU. "I think we should make it 
harder for people to go to school right 
now." 

5 Oct 
Leg injury sidelines sophomore 
quarterback Brian Dowling for the 
season. 

10 Oct 
Treasury 
Department approves 
medical aid plan to Vietnamese 
civilians but sets a $300 limit. A petition against the effort collects 413 students' signatures; 968 New Haven 
residents sign. 

19 Oct 
Psychology professor Michael Kahn 
advocates a college-operated clinic to 
"make an expertly guided session 
(with psychedelic drugs) available to 
those students willing to prepare for 
it." 

27 Oct 
Silent vigil 
organized by Div 
students; one hour vigil planned 
every Wednesday until the war ends. 

30 Oct 
Robert 
Kennedy cheered at a 
Democratic rally at the Park Plaza. 

8 Nov 
Election Day 1966. Cook defeated in 
race for congressional seat; Ronald 
Reagan elected governor of California; George Wallace elected governor 
of Alabama. Selective Service extension of draft eligibility to age 35 
causes several junior faculty members 
and administrators to take draft 
physicals. 

10 Nov 
Stephan J. Perry, '68, dies in Laos 
when his helicopter comes under 
ground fire. Perry was visiting his 
parents in Laos before returning for 
his junior year. 

15 Nov 
Stokely Carmichael speaks to 1200 at 
Woolsey Hall on non-violence, integration, the Vietnam War, and 
Black Power. 

17 Nov 
William F. Buckley, '50, debates Coffin at the PU on the question of 
government action versus private 
enterprise. 

14 The New JournalMarch 2, 1984 

--- Page 15 ---

20 Nov 
Charging that the National Collegiate Conference on Selective Service had been called to discuss reform 
of the draft not abolishment, Yale's 
two student delegates walk out before 
the conference votes to call for an end 
to the peacetime draft. 

22 Nov 
Thirteen students form Ad Hoc 
Group to protest the Vietnam War by 
refusing induction if drafted. 

1 Dec 
Pvt. David Brown, formerly '67, is 
held in an army stockade in Fort Dix. 
Brown became a conscientious objector (CO) after joining the army and 
refused to cooperate. 

6 Dec 
Students organize a "Kennedy for 
President in '68" committee. Kennedy 
writes and expresses his support for 
Johnson and Humphrey. Visiting 
Professor Margaret Mead advocates 
universal national service for men 
and 
women. 

7 Dec 
Former Presidential 
Assistant 
N. 
Goodwin 
speaks at Yale; denounces Johnson 
administration for carrying on a 
"futile war." 

8 Dec 
Div School cancels classes for a symposium on Vietnam; Yale refuses a 
plan to donate rebates for meals of 
fasting students to 
Vietnamese 
civilians. 

12 Dec 
Paul Mellon, '29, donates his British 
art collection of more than 8,000 
pieces (valued conservatively at $35 
million) to Yale. 

13 Dec 
Three Morse corridormates and a 
female companion arrested for possession of two pounds of marijuana. 

15 Dec 
Justice William O. Douglas addresses 
a Senior Dinner: "Get on the side of 
revolution-get used to the word." 

17 Dec 
Richard Could, '68, notified that he 
will be inducted in February for 
neglecting to take the Selective Service deferment exam. Could will apparently be the first Yale student to 
be inducted before graduating. 

31 Dec 
Official consideration of the 
Yale-Vassar merger announced. 

1967 
u Jan 
American troop strength in Vietnam 
reaches nearly 400,000 by year-end. 

10 Jan 
Thomas McLaughlin, '68, is revealed 
as the model for Time's cover illustration for "Man of the Year: The New 
Generation." 

18 Jan 
Nine professors urge the faculty to 
sign a 
letter asking Johnson "to 
declare an unconditional halt to the 
bombing of North Vietnam." 

"We were there for a very idealistic reason: 
to give average Vietnamese the chance for 
self-determination. I believe in that 100 percent."




**Yale Summer Programs**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Yale Summer Programs present 
each year a number of academic 
courses for credit. 
Students live in Silliman College-
one of Yale's Residential Colleges 
and participate fully in the various 
academic, social, and cultural 
activities that take place during the 
summer. 


Courses are open to Yale students, 
undergraduates from other 
universities, college graduates, and 
to adults holding a high school 
diploma. Qualified pre-college 
students are eligible for admission. 

For further infimnatWn contact: 
Yale Summer and Special Programs 
53 WaH Street-Dept. F 
P.O. Box 2145 
New Haven CT 06520 
Telephone (203) 436-4217


**Dr. Keggi and the Vietnam War**
**Author: Joice Banerjee**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

teaching full-time at the School of 
Medicine upon his return to the States 
in 1966. He had decided to teach or-
thopedic surgery while working in Viet-
nam. Due to what he calls his "medical 
idealism," Keggi felt a great need to 
share his unique experiences with 
students. 

At the 
med school, 
he 
established a war surgery lecture series, 
drawing almost entirely from his work 
in Vietnam. 

Initially, most people within the Yale 
community reacted to Dr. Keggi and 
his Vietnam service with curiosity and 
sympathy. "But the lines were drawn by 
1967," saxs Keggi, alluding to the deep 
division o
f opinion over the war. "Any 
debates about Vietnam would degen-
erate into shouting matches. There was 
so much emotionalism over the war 
that, instead of seeing shades of grey, 
people would call you a fascist pig." • 

Keggi quickly recalls a psychiatric social 
worker whose son had a broken arm. 
The social worker refused to let Keggi 
treat the boy because of Keggi's volun-
tary service in Southeast Asia. 

Beyond his own experiences, Dr. 
Keggi remembers the harassment of 
student veterans at Yale. "They were 
spat upon," says Keggi, his slow, casual 
speaking style growing emphatic. "The 
Yale undergrads who returned here 
were typically looked upon as war-
mongers or as idiots who had allowed 
themselves to be drafted. The average 
Yale student did everything to avoid the 
war, the idea being that you shouldn't 
sacrifice intelligent lives." 

But Keggi sees Yale and the nation 
atoning for their hostility toward Viet-
nam veterans. "The war is viewed now 
in realistic terms, unemotionally and 
impartially," he says, "The discussions 
over Vietnam are much fairer. Now, 
General Westmoreland could lecture at 
Yale without being called a baby killer." 

Though the actions of the anti-war 
supporters bothered Keggi, he bears no 
grudge against the majority of Yale ac-
tivists. Rather, he perceives most of 
them as sincere but misguided people. 
"They were all well-meaning," explains 
Keggi, "but they played right into the 
hands of world communism. Of course, 
none of them were communist spies or 


on the KGB payroll, but the R ussians 
were very clever about manipulating 
American peace movements for their 
own needs." 

Keggi 
believes the Vietnam-era 
chaos had a number of effects on Yale. 
He believes the university lost substan-
tial alumni moneys due to then-Presi-
dent Kingman Brewster's attacks on 
American involvement in the war. 
More importantly, Keggi maintains 
that the past activism at Yale has in-
stilled a "reverse M cCarthyism" in the 
faculty. "It used to be if you had com-
munist ties, you couldn't work," ex-
plains Keggi, "But now the faculty is so 
liberal that anyone who has an opinion 
to the right of the far-out views of the 
department is looked upon as a nut and 
denied a job." 

Through all his experiences, Kristaps 
Keggi remains true to his ideals. T he 
events of the sixties have reinforced his 
belief in a strong national defense and 
universal civilian and military service. 
Since the dismantling of ROTC at 
Yale, Keggi no longer contributes to 
unrestricted 
alumni 
funds. 
Yale's 
guarantee of financial aid to registration 
resisters prompted Keggi to voice his 
dissatisfaction to President A. Bartlett 
Giamatti, whom he had known as an 
undergraduate. According to Keggi, 
their brief correspondence ended with 
each man telling the other he was 
wrong. 

Today, Keggi has a private practice 
and continues to teach med school 
residents the skills of reconstructive 
surgery. 
Methods of coping 
with 
pressure he learned as a resident helped 
him greatly in both V ietnam and New 
Haven. "As a surgeon," K eggi says, 
"you develop 
a 
certain defense 
mechanism to cope with the grim facts 
of life. It was a tremendous waste to see 
18-year-old boys come in wounded who 
shouldn't have been wounded. I've 
learned to minimize and forget a lot of 
memories because it's so . 
unplea-
sant." 

• 
]o;•ce Banerjee, a sophomore in Timothy 
Dwight, is on the staff of T NJ. 


**Title: Richard Warren Pershing**
**Author: Paul Hofheinz and Morris Pann·er**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Richard Warren Pershing 
Letters from Quang Tri 
Paul Hofheinz and Morris Pann·er 
Quang T ri Province 
30 Dec 67 
Bo, of the monolithic mandible, 
... A 
thought from 
the 
mysterious 
East . . . Happy New Year and all trite 
things that are customarily uttered at this time 
of tlu year. How was your Christmas? There 
is no way it could have compared to an evening 
in the T a little over a year ago when you and 
your elf had your finest hour. Many moons ago 
and Jar away . . . 
We have run a couple of operations over here 
and the battalion was bloodied two days after 
Christmas . .. 
Richard 
W. 
Pershing, 
Lieutenant, 
lOlst Airborne. Division, United States 
Army, had seen his friends for the last 
time barely a month before at the Yale-
Harvard football game. It somehow 
made sense that Persh, as his friends 
called him, would see the group for the 
last time at The Game. For even though 
~e never ceased poking fun at tradi-
tiOns, he could not seem to escape them 
either. 

As his father before him, Persh at-
tended Yale where he stood out as much 
for his flamboyant personality as for his 
athletic prowess. On Tap Day, in the 
spring of '65, he was selected to par-
ticipate in one of the most traditional 
aspects of a tradition-bound institution, 
Skull and Bones. And when Persh left 
~ale, he decided to enlist in the army, 
like his father and his grandfather, 
General J ohn J. "Black J ack" Pershing, 
Commander of American Forces in 
World War L His friends remember 
that_ Persh never bragged about his 
famtly but, as one of his close friends 
recalls, "There was no other honorable 
thing for him to do but join the army. It 
was a legacy for him as much as being 
at Yale was a legacy for him." 

Yale in 1966 was not radically dif-
ferent from the Yale of the 1950s. Peo-
ple still wore ties to dinner. The resi-
dential colleges had guards posted at 
gates that were left unlocked. There 
were no women either. "Ironically, the 
war was almost a non-issue at that 
time," fellow Bonesman Chip Stanberry 
recalls. "It was distant, almost non-
existent, not something worth thinking 
about, certainly not something worth 
protesting about." 

Persh formed many special bonds 
with his fellow members of Skull and 
Bones: Mack Bradford, the Captain of 
the lacrosse team, Michael Dalby, a 
scholarly intellectual studying Asian 
history, Ron Singer, Phi Beta Kappa 
graduating 3rd in his 
class, Jim 
Howard, a lacrosse player and offensive 
halfback on the football team. "We 
shared a lot of emotions," recalls Dave 
Laidley, the captain of the football 
team, dubbed "Bo of the Monolithic 
Mandible" by Persh. "It was a highly 
charged, very candid year." All of the 
original group have been successful: 
some have gone on to national prom-
inance: J ohn Kerry, now the Lieute-
nant Governor of Massachusetts and 
Freddie Smith, 
the president and 
founder of Federal Express. The group 
met twice weekly and spent much time 
together outside of their society. 

Persh was not the only person in 
Bones that year who went to Vietnam. 
John Kerry," David Thorne and Fred 
Smith also saw combat. They went 
partly out of curiosity and also because 
"He had this crazy kind of luck and ability. 
We all thought this pluckiness would get 
him through Nam." 
they didn't want to go to graduate 
school or Canada, the only alternatives 
to military service for young men just 
out of college. "We were all, even Persh, 
interested in the question of war in our 
generation. Would you run away or 
would you go deal with it, look at it?" 
David T horne, another Bonesman who 
served as an officer in the Navy recalls. 
"There was a certain adventure about 
it." 

Of all the Bonesmen who served in 
Vietnam, Persh was the only one who 
did not return. Now, a white tombstone 
sits atop a hill overlooking Washington, 
D.C. It is isolated from the rows upon 
rows of similar slabs which dot the land-
scape of Arlington National Cemetery 
like daisies in a spring pasture. OfT in 
the distance are the Washington Monu-
ment and the United States Capitol. 
Persh's tombstone stands in a small 
clearing near the grave of his grand-
father, one of the country's great war 
heroes and the namesake of the Per-
shing II missile. 

. .. In the same fi.refight a Huey 1-B gun-
ship (helicopter) was blown om of the 
sky-carbonizing two pilots and two gunners. 
I cam'ed one of the bodies in to be taken back 
by chopper-and was shaken by that as I have 
ever been in my short life. The immediacy of 
death is startling. One man was shot through 
the temple so it was instantaneous but ug!Ji as 
sin. Now it seerns remote and almost not im-
portant, but at the time, it twists you up in-
side . .. 

At a lean 6'2", Persh cut a dashing 
figure 
on campus. 
His theatrical 
mannerisms and wild antics gave him a 
high profile both in and out of Pierson 
College. In Skull and Bones, Persh was 
iconoclast, 
the one who kept 
everybody from taking themselves too 
seriously. "Suddenly he'd be Nigel, a 
character he invented in a debate at 
Mory's, with an English accent," recalls 
Laidley. "H e'd pick up a soup bowl and 
use it for a helmet. 'Nigel standing at 
the head of the Sahara sands,' he'd say." 

Inside the H all on High Street, few of 
the solemn rituals of Skull and Bones 
escaped Persh's ridicule. "We'd get to 
taking it all a little too seriously, and 
suddenly he'd be Cyrano de Bergerac," 
adds Laidley. "H e'd slap somebody with 
a glove and challenge them to a duel." 

In a time conspicuously devoid of 
protests or inspired causes, Persh's 
friends remember him for his warmth 
and generosity. Born into a prominent 
New York family on October 25, 1942, 
Persh was the son of a successful stock 
. broker who was well-known in New 
York social circles. The family had a 
large apartment on Park Avenue and a 
summer house in Southampton. Persh 
often liked to treat h_is friends at one of 
his favorite spots in the city. 

"He knew all the good bars on the 
East Side," says j im H oward. "H e could 
go to Trader Vic's without money 
becau se everyone knew him there." 

Often the group wou ld end up sleeping 
in the City at the Pershings' place after 
Persh had treated everyone to dinner 
and drinks. "We used to call those our 
Trader V ic's seminars," recalls Laidley. 
These trips were an important time for 
Persh and his friends to get together. 
"H e was the catalyst for that whole 
grou p," recalls M ary Ann Howard, j im 
H oward's wife. "H e was the one who 
would call and get them all together." 

At times, Persh's antics bordered on 
the reckless. Howard recalls flying back 
to New Haven on Fred Smith's private 
plane, after a party on Long Island . "At 
one point, I looked up and Persh was at 
the controls. I'm certain he'd never 
flown anything before, but he insisted 
on doing it." Stunts like this both am-
used and annoyed Persh's friends. "tie 
was so delightful and funny, you 
couldn't get mad at him," recalls Ron 
Singer. "H e could flick cigarette ashes 
on your clothes and you had to laugh." 

. . . This is an ugry, amorplwus on again, 
qff again war. When in base camp, its touch 
football, beer and bridge- On our operations 
it.r sw~at, slogging Lhrou.~h lcnee deep wale" in 
the paddies, vicious red ants and bugs. Tht 
heat is ungodry dun"ng the day and while it 
cools off at night, the mosquitoes have been 
known to band together and carry men and 
machines off . . . 

Persh's friends recall that he never 
worked very hard at anything, prefer-
ring instead to rely on his natural grace 
and intelligence. Often he would stay 
out late drinking and smoking cigar-
ettes the night before a lacrosse or soc· 
cer game and deliver a stellar perfor· 
mance on the field the next day. "He 
was serious about the-.games, but he 
partied hard after them," recalls Mack 
Bradford. Persh brought his antics out 
onto the field as well. "We used to carry 
him out onto the field in a laundry 
basket. H e'd get out' and dance around 
in 
a 
really 
funny 
way," Kerry 
remembers. 

Exams were always a crisis. "He used 
to hit the infirmary during exams: 
Laidley says. Despite the u nending 
academic crisis, Persh graduated with a 
BA in English. "H e didn't have much in 
common with the English metaphysical 
poets, but I guess he liked them: 
Michael Dalby says, remembering the 
drawn out cram sessions he and Persh 
had together. After their last exam, the 
Bones group took a trip to Deer Island, 
the StK'i<'ty's private island on the St. 

Lawrence R iver. Thev returned to New 
Haven after only a few days to hear 
Kerry deliver the Class Day speech. 

Looking ba<·k on those close calls, 
Persh's friends remember that pan of 
his charm was his ability to get out of 
tight situations. "lie was the kind of guy 
who could write excellent term papers 
on subjects he knew nothing about," 
recalls AI Cross, a fellow Bonesman. 

Academic trouble was not the only pro-
blem Persh got himself into. Howard 
tells ho"" ht· and Pt·rsh wound up in 
Grand Central Station om• morning at 
5:00 a.m. afrt•r a long night on the 
tovm. They had spent all of tht·rr money 
and had no ""•l\ to get back to New 
Haven. Pt·...-h approached somebody in 
one of the caflott•rias and <·on" inced him 
to lend tht·rn SIO .. He "'as ah .. ays get-
ting into trouble and corning out smell-
ing like a ro ...... ~ Srngt•r n·rnembcrs. 

T o some of hr., fnends, it st·emed as if 
Pe...-h had a guardian angel. .. He had 
this craz\ kind of luck and ability,~ 
Laidley <;ays 
.. We all thought this 
pluckiness would 
get 
him through 
Nam." 

. . . We've pazd ou.• own priu for thr car-
nage-yesterday I los• 111) companJI com-
mander, a good fn.end "nly wee Is old" than I, 
a dn'nking buddy and o finr Joldz.-r. Hnd a 
piece of shrapnelftomfnmd(}' artillrry• trar m -
to his chest collapsing a lung. Hr toppled ovl'T 
in the rice paddy and watf'r su rpt into hi1 
chest cavity drowning him. I watched the 
chaplain unzip the plastic hod} ba,l( to ad-
minister extreme unction, anointing a yellow-
gray eyelid on a faa that u•m ru•arly Wl-
ucognizabk in its death pallor. Hn-r u;a.r ont 
of my closest frimds in m} am!y carrrr u•ho 
had ceased to exist now zipped up and plaad 
with eight others in a contamn- for shi'pmmt 
home .... 

On October 10. 1966, Pt•rsh enli•aed 
in the Army. He rqx)rll·d to Ft. Dix, 
New Jersey, where tht• Command sin-
gled him out for trainin~ as a Lit•ute-
nant because of his Yale edu(·ation and 
military background. H t• t•ntered Of-
"There was no other honorable thing for 
him to do but join the army. It was a 
legacy for him as much as being at Yale." 


--- Page 20 ---

3 Mar 
Prom 1967 features Woody Herman 
and his Band, Martha and the Van-
dellas, and the Orlons (of "Watusi" 
fame). 

II Mar 
Polo 
wins 
1967 
National 
Inter-
collegiate Championship. 

6 Apr 
Associate 
Psychology professor 
Michael Kahn proposes legalization 
of marijuana and sale over drug store 
counters. 

9 Apr 
40 students join the New Hampshire 
to Milford leg of a 500 mile marathon 
tn protest the war. 

10 Apr 
Fourteen Yale groups sign leiters urg-
ing faculty support of massive anti-
war demonstrations in New York Ci-
ty on April 15. The leiter is signed by 
Galston, Bergin, Emerson, Hersey. 
Kahn and Scully. 

12 Apr 
Strom Thurmond warns in a PU 
speech against a stalemate in Viet-
nam and calls for a complete and final 
. vi<·tory incuding "revolutionary and 
<TI'ative development of the coun· 
lrvsidt·." 

l"S'"Apr · 
500 Y alies march as 
Division K in "Spring 
Mobilization to end the 
War in Vietnam" in New 
York City, from Central 
Park to the U .N . Martin 
Luther King addresss the 
march, and leads it with 
Dr. 
Benjamin 
Spock. 
Galston, Scully, Kahn, 
and Cools march as well. 

19 Apr 
Maryland Governor Spiro Agnl'w •·n-
durses Nelson Rockefeller as t ht• 
COP's best presidential candirlaH· in 
1968. 

22 Apr 
In a panel discussion at thc• l.aw 
School Brewster endorses abolishing 
student deferrments and allowing 18 
and 19-year-old draftees to choose 
their time of service between 19 and 
23. 

27 Apr 
Faculty adopts a resolution "urging 
the abolition of student deferments." 
Westerfield and Scully are key in 
drafting the resolution . 

I May 
History professors Harry Benda and 
.Jonathan Spence warn of a possible 
US invasion of North Vietnam . 

2 May 
New Haven Young Friends Stw·il't\' 
announces it has sent a second illq(a1 
$500 to Canada for medical supplit·s 
for 
North 
& 
South Vietnanw«· 
.-ivilians. 



**Title: Dick Pershing**
**Author: Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
P ersh with varsity lacrosse teamma tes Jim Howard and John K erry in 1966. 
fleer Candidate School (OCS) where 
they taught him to use an M-14 rifle. 
The following spring, they sent him to 
Fort Benning, Georgia, to learn to 
parachute. On August 17, 1967, he was 
made a Second Lieutenant and assign-
ed to the 101st Airborne Division. 
Persh's 
friends 
report 
that 
the 
military began to interest him more 
afte•· he joined it. "H e got caught up in 
the whole OCS thing." Cross recalls. 
"He seemed anxious to succeed in the 
military." 
Jim Howard remembers 
driving Persh down to Fort Dix after a 
weekend together in New York. "He 
was pleased with what he was doing, 
but he didn't know what to expect in the 
future." 

In the fall of 1967, Lieutenant Persh-
ing began preparing to go on active du-
ty in Vietnam. The Army sent him and 
his unit to Fort Campbell, Kentucky, 
for a series of exercises in preparation 
for combat. Persh also got engaged to 
Shirley Gay. a woman he had been 
dating since he broke up with Kitty 
H awks, his college sweetheart, just after 
graduation. His parents threw an enor-
mous engagement party at their house 
on Long Island and invited all of Persh~ 
old friends. They were surprised when 
D_ick wore his uniform to the party. 
Persh was nervous about his upcom-
ing tour of duty though he took pains 
not to show it except to his close 
friends. Laidley remembers seeing him 
for the last time at the Yale-Harvard 
game. "We went to some bar some-
where and ordered a couple of glasses 
of champagne. He threw his arms 
around my neck and we started wrest-
ling, just like old times. Suddenly he 
grabbed me as hard as he could and 
hugged me. 'God I'm scared,' he said. 
We both started crying. The moment 
passed and soon he was jumping up on 
the table doing his Zorba dance again." 
In December, Persh received his 
orders w assume active duty in Viet-
nam. 
. . . The "VC can be workin,{? in the paddies 
one minute and in a clump of trus the next 
firing at _you - _you can i tell who or when or 
wherr-and finally-why . . 
It may .be 
r~y worm's c_ye vit'w of thr co'!flict, but iJ 
makes no sense. These people could care less 
about words like democracy or popular repre-
sentation or elections. They want to farm, to 
grow rice and chickens, to make love and to be 
lt;ft alone ... 

Many of Persh's friends were shaken 
by the change that had come over th eir 
friend since he had gone to war. At 
Yale, "he was rather apolitical, not 
really all that well -mformed. But I 
guess he was fairly conservative," 
recalls Thorne, now a consultant work-
ing in Boston. From Vietnam, his let-
ters indicated at least a new awareness 
if not a change of heart. More striking 
than the change in his view of the war 
was the new seriousness and the weight 
of Persh's responsibility. "It was a dif-
ferent Dick Pershing who wrote me 
from Nam," Laidley recalls. "No more 
igel." His roommate also detected a 
change. "In the war, he found a group 
of people whose Ji,·es he was responsi-
ble for," Singer explains. "That was not 
something he'd had before and I think 
he became responsible as hell when he 
· •' 


Quang T n· Provinct 
3 Feb 68 
Dear Bo, 
Just a short note to let you know that Persh 
is still in the pink of good health despite half 
of the slope heads in SE Asia taking out their 
own personal vendella against him. On the 
bad guys' side may be numbered the myriad 
beasties that go bump in the n~t:ht ... and 
believe me a 3 7 lb. mosquito will go bump as 
he busts against the crust of dritd sweat, 4 
day old insect repe/lant, conl:ealtd C-Ration 
juices and dessicated night 
soil-bloated 
leeches. 

. . . We move into paddies tom'w for 10 
days of combat assaults by chopper- workin.t: 
company stu units in an area reputed to 
house 3 NVA REGIMENTS-a lillie like 
the Parsons' Institute for the Blind playing 
the Padcns in Green Bay 
Two weeks after Persh wrote that 
letter, the IOist infantry received 
orders form the American command in 
Thua Thien to lead a combat assault 
on Hung Nohn, a small village some 
400 miles North of Saigon reported to 
contain a North Vietnamese baualion 
headquarters. The routine was not 
new to the 101 st. They had been on 
several missions like this one since 
Lieutenant Pershing took command of 
Company A in Dccembet·. 

. .. Presently workin.t: near the DMZ in the 
town of Quang Tri. R1:~ht wlurl' thl' action 
is -to be sure- but thr .~to~}' of war doern 't 
come on as strong as its suppoud to- We've 
killed nearly 700 NVA troop.1 in this area in 
the last three days and the on(y results I've 
seen are random bod irs -luadleu or without 
limbs strewn by the road, irride1crnt due to 
the blanket of jlirs on the hod it's- left ~y a 
cruel 
and unconarned populau- or 
American troops taking pictuu1 with Kodak 
104's of bodies slacked liJ..l' cordu•ood in a 
town squart' . 
As 
American 
soldiers 
ap-
proached the village, the North Viet-
namese opened fire on them. The 
Americans began to retn.·at. but Com-
pany A and 
Lieutenant 
Pershing 
stayed behind to provide a base of (ire 
to allow the Americans to pull back. 
Unfortunately. 
not 
all of the 
members of Company A n•turncd to 
headquarters that night. The fighting 
"The feeling was no longer 'What's going 
on over there?' It was, 'Oh God, this is 
real.'" 
had been intense: There had been 
casualties. One of the men had fallen 
in the field and remained unaccounted 
for. Lieutenant Pershing decided they 
should go back and look for him. 
The 101st returned to Hung Nohn 
the next day and began searching for 
their fallen comrade. They were met 
again by enemy gunfire, but they con-
tinued to search through the knee-deep 
mud in the rice paddies on the out-
skirts of the town. Lieutenant Pershing 
called for a troop deployment from his 
exposed point position at the head of 
the platoon. "Shift over to the left," he 
yelled with a wave of the hand. Just 
then, a rocket-propelled grenade round 
flashed in from a bunker. It hit a rice 
dike with a blinding flash. The force 
threw him to the ground. Fragments of 
the grenade tore into his neck and 
shoulders. 
Though critically wounded, Lieute-
nant Pershing refused to relinquish his 
command. He attempted to withdraw 
to a better vantage point from which to 
direct his troops and reassess his situa-
tion. Minutes later, he was wounded 
again, this time by ..1 gunshot to the 
neck. His shoulders, neck and face 
now ragged, he died in the field. 

. . . I'm a little tired to wax long on political 
philosophy but all I want to do is put in my 
time and come home. There are too many peo-
ple over here sweating and cb!_ing and getting 
crippled to leave now-even ij I could- and 
maybe I can keep some of our people healthy if 
I can imbue them with my own brand of or-
thodox cowardice. Fear is there all the time, 
but generally too busy or uncomfortable to 
notice-you become pretty resigned and just 
hope you'll be Lucky ... 
Persh's friends felt that in dying 
while searching for a lost comrade he 
had lrved up to his own character 
rath~ than any military code he might 
have' learned. "His belief was in peo-
ple more than in the military," AI 
Cross claims. "I don't think he wen~ 
back to look for his friend out of 
military commitment. His friend was 
out there and he needed help." 
Even more than the grief that 


**Title: Yale Events, 1968**
**Page number(s): 23**

5 May 
Freshman "riot~ on Old Campus, 
numerous fires staned. 

6 May 
The New Republic accuses Yale of 
engagin~ in classified research on 
Chemical and biological warfare for 
the Pentagon. The administration 
and faculty deny the charges. 

10 May 
"Day of I nquiry~ organized by Senior 
Advisory Board, Yale Daily Ntws, 
Dwight 
H all and Battell Chapel 
Deacons features a series of five lec-
tures in the Law School Auditorium, 
student-faculty lunch and dinner 
discussion and prayer for world 
peace. 

11 May 
Seven faculty members (including 
Scully. Blum and Hersey) ask New 
Hav<.'n teachers to participate in a 
peat·e demonstration May 23: S<.-ek 
extension of Vietnam Truce Day on 
May 23. 

23 May 
600 students and faculty march on 
the Green, asking that "the truce 
become the Peace.· 

19 St'p 
Cook returns from C:z.echoslovkia 
after meeting with North Vietnamese 
and 
National 
Liberation 
Front 
rcpre~ntati,·cs: senses a "hardening 
of the Vietnamese line on the war.• 

2 Oct 
C.O. 
Brown found 
guilty of 
disobeying a 
superior 
officer. 
Sentenced to 18 months of hard 
labor. bad conduct discharge and 
forfeiture of all military pay. 

3 Oct 
Eleven students invite all 
Yale 
students to commit themselves to a 
"We Won't Go~ Pledge; form Yale 
Draft Refusal Committee. 
Pierson College establi~he~ a military 
service· information agency. Coffin 
promises to offer Battell Chapel as a 
sanctuary from police action for any 
Yale student conscientiously resisting 
the draft. 

II Oct 
Scully and Law Professor Charles 
Reich begin to circulate petition to 
entire faculty condemning war in 
Vietnam and asking LBJ to seek 
peace at on...e. 
Lady Bird Johnson visits Yale, ad-
dres!<t:S Political Union on "Beau-
tification in America.• 1500 to 2000 
students hold a silent vigil to unte an 
end to US bombing of Nonh Viet-
nam Over 600 students and faculty 
sign an open letter to that effect. 

Dwight Hall surveys claim a majority 
of under-grads oppose Vietnam War. 
Three professors ask faculty to join a 
national group of writers. profes'IOrs 
and clei"!O' demonstrating in Wash-
mgton O...ctober 21 in solidarity with 
draft resistors. 


**Pershing's Death and its Impact**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Persh's death caused his friends, it also 
brought a new awareness of the war 
which they had hardly thought about 
two years before. "It was the first time I 
thought what a waste this is," recalls 
Mack Bradford. "The feeling was no 
longer 'what's going on over there?' It 
was, 'Oh God, this is real."' Others had 
similar reactions. "It contributed to the 
futility. It brought home the senseless-
ness. It crystalized my feelings of the 
waste involved in that effort," accor-ding to Stanberry. "I was ambivalent 
to the war at th.e time we graduated-
If I had a view, it was probably more 
pro than con- but by 1968 and Persh's 
death, all that changed." 

The funeral tOok place in New York 
on February 27. Most of the old clique 
,., was there: Laidley, Bradford, Cross, 
Dalby, Stanberry, 
Howard. 
After 
the ceremony, several of them boarded 
a private plane with the coffin and flew 
to Washington. A funeral cortege met 
them at the airport and carried them to 
Arlington National Cemetery where 
Lieutenant Pershing was buried with 
full military honors. 

After the coffin was lowered into the 
ground, the group flew back to New 
York in time for cocktails and dinner. 
It was the last time they were all 
together. 

Take care of yourself Bo- please drop a line 
and bring me up to date on happenings back 
in the world- in turn I'll continue to keep our 
country .free from Communist oppression and 
continue to spread the good word about apple 
pie, motherhood, the .flag-and the glory of 
the great American way to a body of people 
who share their dirt floor with chickens, P~t:s 
and water b~ffalo. No, I'm not b~t:.for flower 
power, but you can't force feed a programmed 
system to people who work on a candle power 
land- no matter what the tall 1 e.>. an ltlYf . .. 

As ever, my scurrility rernains untainted by 
the n:r:ors tif this barbarian police action. May 
. ~our vast mandible l~row florid with good liv-
ln[!. 


Paul Hojheiru, a s.mior in Silliman, is 
Associate Editor ofTNJ. Morris Panner, a 
smior in Ezra Stiles, is Mana.r:in.t: Editor. 

**At The University Memorial in the Year 1976**
**Author: Archibald MacLeish**
**Page number(s): 26**

A strut door opens, claUers, closes. 
Silence. 
A voice: Is someone here? 
Is someone here? the voice says. 
Names, the silence answers. 
What names? 
Names 
without their . lives, . the silence 
answers. 
Carved names on a curving wall. 
Names no longer spoken. 
Speak them. 
We are the young, the silence answers. 
The young who died> the silence answers. 
Died in the wars, the silence answers. 
Wars! says the voice. God damn the wars! 
The Revolution. The Rebellion. 
The war to .end war. The wars after. 
What has a university to do with war? 
What had we to do with war? 
You went to it. 
It came to us. 
We were the young. It called us. And we 
died. 
The university would not have listened. 
It had no need to: we had listened. 
You believe that? You believe 
you gave your lives for that? Died for the 
university? For light? For truth? 
You are the dupes of death. You fought for 
nothing, died for nothing . . 
perished at the iron gate. 
It's always at the iron gate 
truth takes stand and men must fight for it. 
And afterward the truth they fought for 
turns to lies, dishonor> public shame. 
Even the dead learn that, the voice says. 
The truth they fought for, maybe, says the 
silence. 
The truth they died for} no. It's there. 
Where? says the voice. 
Where truth is duty: 
where the university grows great. 
The university-' the voice says. 
Truth in the university is true: 
It has no truck with death, with duty. 
The university, the silence answers-
truth in the university is where 
the young have found it. 
Where? The voice says. 
Here> the silence answers. At the iron gate. 
copyright 0 18711 by Archibald Macl.al•h 
Aeprln1ed with penniMion of Houghton Mifflin Co., Boston 

The names form a solemn list on the 
wall of the archway outside Woolsey 
Hall rotunda. We pass them everyday, 
but it is hard to imagine the lives these 
names represent. 
Etched in white 
granite, 
the 
names 
have 
become 
abstractions 
William 
Marcus 
Barschow ... Howard Jon Schnabolk 
. . . thirty-two others. They died in· 
places like Quang Tri Province, Hai 
Yun, or "somewhere near Danang." 
Over 58,000 Americans were killed 
in V ietnam. Thirty-four of them were 
from Yale. Not all of them graduated 
from here; some came here only briefly. 
Most of them were lieutenants, though 
two were corporals, and three were not 
directly affiliated with the military. 
They are all nonetheless united by the 
fact that they once walked through this 
corridor, past the wall which now bears 
their name, rank and place of death. 
Here is a brief description of the lives 
of some of these men. 


**The Thirty-Four**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

After recuperating from his wounds, 
he volunteered to return to active duty. 
He was killed in action a few days later 
in Bien Boa, a small town about 40 .., 
miles north of Saigon. 

JOHN CLYDE WHITE, III was born 
and raised in Dayton, Ohio. He came 
to Yale in 1962, after a brief stint at 
prep school in Pennsylvania. 

White quickly distinguished himself 
as a first-rate debater. He was a 
member of the Political Union during 
his freshman and sophomore years and 
an important member of the Yale 
Debate Team. In 1964 he won third 
place in the Buck-Jackson Oratorial 
Contest and in 1965 he finished second 
in the Ten Eyck Oratorial Contest. 

White was also a dedicated athlete. A 
friend once described him as "the fastest 
man in Dayton, Ohio." He ran track all 
four years at Yale and lettered his senior 
year. 

DONALD PORTER FERGUSON 
was born in New Haven on October 4 , 
1947. He grew up in the Elm City and 
graduated from the Hopkins Grammar 
School where he was the editor of the 
school paper, The Razer. 

Ferguson entered Yale in the fall of 
1965. His friends say he was bright, but 
he left Yale after a semester and a half, 
apparently disenchanted with the rigors 
of a Yale education. 

Fergt;son joined the army not long 
after leaving Yale. The army made him 
a corporal and in April of 1967, they 
sent him to Vietnam. 

In November of that year, Ferguson 
was severely wounded by a hand 
grenade. His best friend was killed in 
the same incident, though the experience 
only redoubled Ferguson's desire to 
fight the war to its conclusion. He wrote 
to his parents from a hospital bed in 
Cam Ranh Bay, "Some people say 
'bring the boys home.' They had better 
check with the 'boys' first. We'll come 
home when we're damn good and 
ready, when this is over." 

He graduated in 1966 with a B.A. in 
English, and went into the Marine 
Corps. After receiving his commission 
from OCS, the Marines sent him to 
Vietnam on March 7, 1967. He died of 
wounds suffered in combat on Nov-
ember 1, 1968, shortly before he would 
have ended his stay on active duty. 

JOHN ABBOTT entered Yale in 1945 
after graduating from 
a 
military 
academy in Carlsbad, California. He 
left Yale after his sophomore year to 
enroll in flight school and become a 
pilot for the Navy. 

Abbott flew numerous missions in 
the Korean War where he was promoted 
to the rank of lieutenant. He was on the 
flight that downed the first Soviet MIG 
of the war. 

Abbott returned to Yale in 1955 and 
enrolled in the School of Engineering. 
He graduated in less than two years 
with a Bachelor of Science degree. A 
non-resident member of Trumbull Col-
lege and an excellent student, he was 
elected to Tau Beta Pi and other 
academic honors societies. 


Abbott resumed active duty in the 
Navy in 1957 and eventually rose to the 
rank of captain. His plane was shot 
down over North Vietnam in April 
1966. The Navy listed him as missing in 
action until the signing of the Paris 
Peace Accords when the North Viet-
namese confirmed that he was dead. In 
1974, the government of North Viet-
nam returned his remains to the United 
States. Abbott was buried with honors 
in Arlington National Ct·nll'tl'ry. 

RICHARD McALLISTER FOSTER 
was born on May 17, 
1900, 
in 
Sewarren, New Jersey. He barely 
missed fighting in the First World War. 
He entered Yale in 1919, the year the 
Big T hree met at Versailles to negotiate 
"an end to war for all time." 

Foster left Yale after the first semester 
of his sophomore year and embarked on 
a career in sales and management. He 
worked for a time as a salesman for the 
Hookless Fastener Company of Mead-
ville, Pennsylvania and later as an 
assistant to the general manager of the 
Crown Fastener Company. 

At age 64, he joined a company 
which specialized in construction work 
in foreign countries. On December 29, 
1964, he was killed by Vietcong 
guerillas while directing the building of 
a railroad in South Vietnam, part of the 
extensive American economic develop-
ment of the region. 

ART HUR DANIEL STILLMAN 
graduated from Harvard magna cum 
laude in September 1963 and joined the 
Peace Corps later that year. He spent 
three years in Thailand and six months 
in Laos on a special state department 
program, 
before returning to the 
United States in 1966. 

Stillman entered Yale Graduate 
School that fall and be~an a Master's 
program in Southeast Asian Studies. 
After graduating in June 1968, he went 
back to Laos as part of the International 
Voluntary Services (IVS), an interna-
tiona! relief agency. By the summer of 
1969, he was Deputy Chief of the IVS 
Laos operation. 

On August 5, 1969, Stillman was 
returning from a meeting with Laotian 
agricultural officials in Paksane, a small 
town 70 miles northeast of Vietiane. A 
guerrilla fired a rocket into his jeep and 
killed him. He was 28 years old. 

FREDERICK WOODROW KNAPP 
was born in Oakland, California, on 
.July 29, 1943. He came to Yale in 1961 
on a Naval Reserve Officer T raining 
Corps Scholarship. 

Knapp majored in 
history and 
worked to fulfill his NROTC re-
quirements. He was a member of the 
Christian Science Organization for 
three years and vice-president of the 
group his senior year. He was also a 
member of DKE. 

The stocky young man who liked to 
be called "Woody" was a dedicated 
athlete. He played on the freshman 
baseball and football teams and made 
the varsity football team his sophomore 
year. He went on to earn a letter in 
football and also played intramural 
basketball and baseball for Ezra Stiles 
College. 

Kingman Brewster presented Knapp 
with his commission during commence-
ment ceremonies in May 1965. A year 
later, he made junior grade lieutenant 
and the Navy stationed him in Vietnam 
as a jet pilot with Naval Attack 
Squadron 164. From his base aboard 
the USS Oriskany, he flew missions 
over Hanoi and Ita phony. He was 
wounded in combat and received a Pur-
ple Heart. 

On November 2, 1967, his plane was 
reported missing after a sortie over 
North Vietnam. 

Paul Hcifhnnz and Moms Pannc-



**Coffin leads delegation of draft resistors**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 28**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Coffin leads delegation 
of draft resistors to turn 
in 1000 draft cards (in-
cluding 28 from Yale) to 
Justice D epartment m 
Washington. 
21 Oc·t 
55.000 march in D.C., ~wrm Pen-
tagon: violence erupts. Thn·c.> Yale 
~wdents and an a~si~tant c·haJ>lain are 
arrested. 400 Yale 
~wdems par-
titipate. 
23 Ou 
FBI interviews at lea,t 12 $1Udents 
~hn ha'e allegedly ~urrendered their 
clrart cards. Dean Robert .John•on of 
the Divinity Sch()()l refuw' to 1(1"<' the 
FBI permission to be on Otv S<h()()l 
property. 
Branford 
M.1~tc•r .J P. 
Trinkau~ says no FBI agcrH ~hall in-
t<•rrogate a Branford studc•nt withoul 
his t'Onscnl. 
25 On 
60 students pit•kt·t lh<• Army-Navy 
ROTC n•nter a1 SLEM 
28 Oc·1 
R;c~slt·r crilicizt"\ Coffin fnr hi~ lac-
tin al(ainst Vie1nam War hut dc·ft"nds 
his ri~~:ht to dissent • .- ,, member of a 
•frt•t" universicv ." 
8 r-:o, 
"Dump .Joh.;snn" \tUdt·ms hold 
orl{ani7.ationl mc.-t"tinl{. 1()0 atu:nd 
and n>mmit 
tu 
nK.tlt~m~~: and 
nrl(ani7.inl( oppmition tn Pr<·sidt·nt 
Johnson. 
l(l Dt•t 
150 •tudents pic·ket Ch.tpt·l Stn•t•t in-
due 1 um n·ntl"r: :10 arrntnl 
12 Dt•t 
SDS pit"kt·t~ Dow Cht•mtt al ,.., ruiu•r 
1968 
8Jan 
on can1pus. 
Coffin 
indicted 
by 
a 
Federal grand jury for 
conspiring to counsel 
and 
aiding 
draft 
resisters. 
10 .J.tn 
Enl(lish instructor \ltth.U"I Hnlah.ut 
dedart"d delinquc:m lor r<·lurntnt( his 
dr<1ft card: urdcrt"d In .tppt·ar htr in-
duninn Feb. 1 
17 .J.tn 
Fatuhv offers two •uuc•mt•nt\ ol sup-
port lor Coffin, o'er :u;o ~tgn 
21l.J.m 
•Cnn•ucntt". 1hc.> l..t" . • tncl lht" 'A'ar" 
c onfert"nct" ht"ld: •pt.·alo.t•rs .til nppt.>•t" 
c·onnuinl( Coffin 
Coffin speaks to May Day protestors 
at Ingalls Rink. A bombing occurred 
at Ingalls later during May Day pro-
tests. 


**The Uncomfortable Gospel**
**Author: Anne Applebaum**
**Page number(s): 29-30**

Reverend Coffin turns from his window 
overlooking 122nd Street, and with 
characteristic irony says, "When I'm in-
troduced, it's always, 'who became 
famous in the sixties,' as if I'd slipped or 
disappeared." He smiles. "You know 
what I mean- they say, 'here he is, less 
hair, gained a little around the waist.' 
Of course, I think I'm working harder 
than ever, but I guess it's only if you're 
on TV, then you're really doing some-
thing." 

Yet undeniably, as Yale Chaplain 
from 1958 to 1974, William Sloane Cof-
fin did become famous in the sixties. 
"The greatest sin in the world is to be 
boring," Coffin said in 1967. The image 
of him exhorting Yale students to resist 
the draft, waging verbal warfare with 
Kingman Brewster, and going to jail in 
protest remain the epitome of Yale in 
the sixties for many students whose lives 
he affected, as well as for alumni who 
looked on in horror. He was castigated 
as a corrupter of youth, characterized 
both as excessively flamboyant and 
tremendously dedicated, and immor-
talized by Gary Trudeau as Doontsbury's 
"fighting young priest who can talk to 
the young." 

Yale was forewarned . Richard Se-
wall, a former Yale English professor, 
remembers Coffin telling the Yale 
Chaplain Search Committee, .. 1 preach 
the uncomfortable gospel." As soon as 
he arrived, Coffin began to fulfill his 
promise, not an easy job in a secular 
university setting, especially one as con-
servative as Yale in 1958. He remem-
bers his job requiring him to .. take peo-
ple who have roots in faith and try to 
show them that the purpose of having 
roots is to grow branches. At Yale you 
take the majority of students- those 
with branches-and teach them to 
develop roots. I discovered that it's 
easier to develop branches from roots." 

Despite what he calls the "dullness" of 
the fifties, Coffin realized early on that 
problems which were dormant had to 
emerge. Civil rights in particular was a 
movement whose time had come. Cof-
fin's 
dislike of racism 
began 
in 
childhood, was exacerbated by the ar-
my, and became his most important 
cause after he was arrested and jailed 
for taking his first "Freedom Ride" in 
the back of a segregated bus in Mon-
tgomery, Alabama. He laughs recall-
ing, "I didn't think that Freedom Ride 
would be all that big a deal. I just 
thought it was something I should be 
doing. But after that I was a civil rights 
expert, so I had to quickly do a lot more 
reading." 

When he returned to New H aven 
after being jailed in Montgomery, Cof-
fin not only got publicity for civil rights, 
but a great deal of criticism from alum-
ni and certain members of the Yale ad-
ministration. Stephen Buck, then Yale's 
provost, asked for his resignation: "It's 
damned undignified for the chaplain of 
the university to go to jail." Coffin was 
deluged with hate letters and anony-
mous phone calls. He was criticized for 
mixing religion with 
politics, 
especially for dragging Yale's name into 
political squabbles and the limelight of 
national media attention. None of the 
criticism affected him in the slightest, 
except perhaps to make him angrier. 
"It was no accident that other campuses 
were blowing up and Yale was calm and 
civilized." 

C riticism grew to condemnation, 
however, when Coffin became aware of 
the Vietnam War, and the newly 
emergent resistance movement. He 
conducted a church service at Battell 
C hapel during which sixty resisters 
burned their draft cards. Coffin really 
had gone too far, even for an increas-
ingly liberal Yale administration. About 
this time, his famous series of confron-
tations with Yale President Kingman 
Brewster began. Although both men 
claim a great deal of respect for one 
another, Coffin recalls his relationship 
with Brewster as "tifTy. I got on his 
nerves-a lot. I would say to him, 
'Aren't you lucky you have me around 
to say all the things you're dying to say 
but you can't because you're president?' 
He accused me of being strident, and I 
think he was probably correct." 

Coffin's stance against Vietnam 
resulted in an indictment in 1968 for 
assisting draft evasion, a trial in Boston 
which attracted national media atten-
tion, and an uproar among alumni who 
threatened to cut ofT their support for 
Yale. But C_offin's liberal image may 
have helped the University more than 
the alumni realized. "It was no accident 
that other campuses were blowing up 
and Yale was calm and civilized," said 
John Wilkinson, Secretary of Yale. 

At Yale's most volatile moment, 
when 13,000 demonstrators came to 
New Haven on May Day 1970 to pro-
test the jailing of Black Panther leader 
Bobby Seale, Brewster welcomed them 
with open arms, and Coffin made sun-
the demonstrators 
were 
fed 
ancf 
sheltered. "My interest was not in sav-
ing Yale," Coffin remembers, "but in 
keeping attention where 
it 
should 
be-namely, on Washington." 

Coffin was anxious to avoid what IH· 
calls the "misdirected" anger against rlw 
administration which was so potent .11 
college campuses around the cm1ntn 
was 
born 
to wt·ahh' 
Th~ N~" JournaUMart·h 'l. 1''11~ 21}

29 Jan 
Coffin pleads not guihy at his trial in 
B o s 1 on . 
:H .Jan 
Tel ullcnsive begins as Nonh Viet-
namese and Vietc·ong allat·k South 
Vit·tnanu.·sc.· dli<·s eind towns. 
6 Ft•b 
Racial violence erupts in New Havt·n 
high schools . 
12 Feb 
Yalt· Draft Refusal Commillc:e spon-
sors Tcat·h·in on the. draft featuring 
Collin and Assistant 
Dean .John 
Wilkinson. 
13 Feb 
Yale Anti-War Cnalition fi>rmed by 
12 anti-war groups. 
14 Feb 
Half of the Yale Law liu·uhy and 147 
students sign a statement with Har-· 
vard and Columbia asscning that 
U.S. war aims cannot be achieved 
and catlin!( li1r a dt•·e,.·alation. 
15 1-"t·b 
Racial violence in high schools t·on· 
tinut·s. 
25 Fd) 
Ivy Lt·a~ue Stuclt-nl Bo<ly Presidents' 
Conl(·n:nn· nmdcmns tht• Vi,·tnam 
'-''Ctr ;tnd Sl·lt•<'l ivt• St·rvi<T. 
2 Mar 
Cunrwcti<-ut's lirst statewide p.-an· 
march held nn tht· (;r.·~·n and around 
Yalt·. 
6 Mar 
PU Poll shows that half of Yale's 
sturlt-nts uwill allt•mpl to avoid bt·ing 
•·allt•d li1r induc·tion. • 
29 studt•nts turn in draft c·ards at 
R.-sistann· Day rally in lkirwkt· plaza 
wht•rc Lynd and Collin spt•ak. 
9 Mar 
Yalt· Corporation approve-s n·admis-
siun polit·y fur ~raductll' and proft•s- 
~ional studt•nts 
for 
.. vulunh·t·rs . 
draft<TS and thost· c·unvint•d li>r non-
<·nnlpliann.·." 
12 Mar 
Cnnnt•c·tic·ut 1961l primary. 
Eu~•·m· 
Mt·Carthy !(<'Is 41 1wrn·n1 of tht• 
Dc•mnc-ratic 
vott·: 
Rit·hard 
Nixon 
t•asily wins m·,·r Nt·lson Rot k.-l<·ll•·r in 
tht· GOP. 
'27 Mar 
St•l•·c·llv<· 
St.·n·rt..-
unt·xplairwdly 
t'Hnt•t•ls l.awn•n<·c.· Francis', '70. in .. 
duc·tion onkr. ~-rands had r<·turnt.·d 
hi!. drafl C'ard. n·fus.•d stud~·nt ddi:r-
ntt .. nt slatus. and inrt·ndt:d lo n:fuse 
his Man·h induc·tion ord.-r. 
:J I Mar 
.Johnson annoum·es partial hnmhing 
halt, olli.-rs talks. and savs ht· will not 
run t(,r n .• .. t•lt·<·tiun. 
. 
4 Apr 
Martin J.utht·r Kin){ slain. Yalt.• dns.•s 
8 Apr in his honnr. Admissions 
Dirt•t·tnr R . lnslt-t· Clark announc·•·s 
nt·gru admissions rt·at·ht·d 70 of 1470 
siUdt.·nts fi>r tht· t•la" of 1'172. 
8 Apr 
Yalt.• Corpor;u ion r.·appoints Cullin 
as t·haplain. 
Coffin and playwright Arthur Miller 
lead over 5,000 people in an an ti-
war protest on the New Haven 
Green. 
"I would say to Brewster, 'Aren't you lucky 
to have me around to say all the things 
you're dying to say but can't because you're 
president?'" 
Manhattan parents, and his childhood 
included years spent in Paris and 
Geneva, and at Andover and Yale. 
There was talk of a possible career as a 
concert pianist. "But one can always 
transcend one's background." he says. 
"The war made a democrat out of me, 
with a small "d" if you will." Not that 
Collin's war career was particularly 
average either; he not only spent time 
in the infantry, but also served as an ar-
my intelligence officer , and later as a 
C IA agent, mostly due to his ability to 
learn nearly fluent Russian in three 
months. H e remembers being "very 
much a Cold Warrior," in those days. 
Only Yale Divinity School, Union 
Theological Seminary, and marriage to 
Arthur Rubinstein's daughter Eva set-
tled him down enough to become 
chaplain of Andover, Williams and 
finally Yale. 

The diversity of Coffin's background 
and interests, and his u nusual ability to 
bridge 
the gaps between different 
worlds is perhaps what stands out most 
strongly in the memories of Coffin's 
friends. W ilkinson recalls driving back 
to New H aven with Coffin after both 
had spent the night in jail after a 1963 
Baltimore civil 
r ights 
p r otest 
demonstration, and asking Coffin to 
slow down. "I'm sorry," replied Coffin, 
"I have to have dinner with J ock 
Whitney," one of the most powerful 
financial magnates in America. Coffin 
remembers telling Whitney, "I don't 
know what's more real, Jock, sleeping 
on the floor of that Baltimore jail or 
sleeping on 
you r 
monogrammed 
sheets."H is ability to JO<:late to extremely 
disparate groups of people helped Cof-
fin attain the mediator's status he held 
at Yale in the sixties. H is aristocratic 
background and liberal convictions 
enabled him to talk with both conser-
vative alumni and radical students, and 
his army and C IA records allowed him 
to denounce the Vietnam War without 
being called a traitor. 

In 
this 
respect , 
hasn't 
changed. Today, he is the senior 
minister of Riverside Church, an im-
posing edifice along the Hudson. River-
side was buill with R ockefeller money, 
but Coffin's congregation of 3,000 is 
one-third black, one-third H ispanic, 
and one-third white. H is vocal sixties 
activism had been translated in to the 
more subdued job of running the 



**Title: William Sloane Coffin Jr.**
**Author: Anne Applebaum**
**Page number(s): 32-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Coffin speaks outside Department of 
Justice in Washington after retur n-
ing 1000 draft card s. 
2:l Apr 
100 ''u<knts blm k bulldut.t'rs trying 
w upruu1 lrt'l'' un Crus; Campus in 
J>ll'JMfallon h11 tht• lllll<lrm·tiun of 
CCL 
2 tv1.ty 
7 M"y 
'i,lun 
Au I( 
IIY St•p 
II Ou 
Ill Ott 
:l4 0< I 
·w On 
12 "'m 
17 "'"' 
Ft·dt•l.llion ol Univt·rsitv Empluyt·t·s 
stnkt''• dining hall and olht•r s~rvin•s 
I Urt;tilt-d 
Com rat 1 .lKil'l'llll'lll ll'ill ht•d bt'l"'l'l'll 
Y.1k .uul 'lriktng un11>n 
"it·n,llor Rnbt•t t 
F 
Kt"nnt·dy 
·'"·"""·''''d in ),," AnKI'I••• <~her win· 
nu>K ('.tltlorm.• prnnarv 
V~tt··l'"'"dt·m lluht·rt Humphrt·y 
"in' Dt•nu><l.llll 
nnmin.tliun 
for 
J>n•,idt•nt 111 ('hll .tl(ll .mnd riots uut-
"dt• tht• <om t•nllun h.tll 
john"'" 
'WP' ,,IJ lx>~nhlnl( nl 
onh Vit•tnam. 
Bn'"'"'r 111 frt•,hman .ttldr<'" "'"rr" 
._t~._tin' c ..... ._tJUUrt' 
b~ d1l\ urthtKiuxy 
- r .. ulit. .tl. rt•._u. uun.trv. ttul'''"'·c.ui,·t· 
ur libn.1l 
Colurnb1.1 SDS k<ttkr Mark Rudd 
,,,..,,k, Ill '\()() m \'\'tK>I'l·~. 1 ),ums •,y,-
l<'lll,ll" altt·mpt w 'upprt'" th ... ratli· 
( ,,, IIlii\ t'llll'nl Ill tht• u s -
Rrt·\,,h•r cft·nac.•, d \'nt.·u(·,,A. c.ttc.uunc 
th.ll lw h," lxTn "1nforrnall) t•nl"ll'd" 
to ._uht't' Nt,un un lurt·i'(n puhtv. 
C 0 
l),l\ id Bruwn 'l><'•'k' al Y;tlc 
.ahuut hi' ptt,un c:xpt.'llt'llC.t''· Kruwn 
''"" 
~t·lt·;t"•d 
111 
.J ulv 
lmm 
his 
Ill tnonth h.nd l;tbor wllll'llt ,. '"' <'ilr-
lv p.nolt· 
Hll'"'"''l lt'<lili<"l hl'loll' th<· Pn·"dt·n-
tial (~tHIItni,,uul un tht.• Cau't'' .1nd 
PH'\l'llllon nl V1okntt" "EH·n tht• 
'ht>< k ul fl<'•lll' will nut brill I( ,,·n·nit v 
to 4:t t1 uuhlt•d ~c.·nc.•riJtlun "' 
Dr R<'III.Ulnn SJW< k 'P''•'k' at Y <tl<· 
"'ith Collin .tnd Cuuk "Tht• """' im-
purt.tnt I hUH{ to do I' HI \(.iUI/t' 
C1bh' l'mk'ur of Cht'lll""" l .<lf' 
( )n,.t\{c.·r bc.·t uruc.·, lir't pn,lt.·,,ur lu 
"Ill ,( S,of>d p1 ,,. "hilt- '1111 ,11 'I .>lt-
J\It·tfiOII 
0<t\ 
1<1611 
:-."nil "jll, 
prni<kntt,tl dn tinn. Cot>J.. '""'' 
"orw lh<tn Ill lllnb 1n tht• tlurd 1111-
~rt·,,iun,tl cli,cru t 
J ani' Jnplin pl."' \'\nuJ,n H<tll . 
2')0 \ludt·nt, .t1 U(;onn- Sturrs hold 
tht• ·"'""""tr.lllllll hUtldllll( lor 24 
hour- . 


F." ull\ .tppm'<'' Brt'"'''·r·, prof><""' 
tn ,lllnut 'il)(l """'''n h' .1 'lOll- I ""'·: 
J'nn11hull Coli<' I(<' ;, 111 lx.· di"nh nl 
.tnd u,c.·cl ·'' tht•ir dunnttur.. 
jnnt llt·ndrt-c J>l,l\' \'\ <K>I"'Y H<tll . 
Y.tlc: ._annuunu·, 'tudt·ru lilt·' drt· nul 
npc.·n eo ttu· t(U\c.•rnnu:nl. 
H,1f\.tr<l .tnd Y.tlt· tit•, 2'1·'l9 
'l'l Tht· !'.t•w Journ.tl M.mh 2. 1'1114 
"It's damned undignified for the chaplain of 
the university to go to jail." 


church and its 70 different programs, 
including aduh education, sheller for 
the homeless, theater, dance, and music 
groups and a nursery school. The sub- 
jects of Coffin's personal pr~jects arc no 
surprise to anyone familiar with his 
anti-Vietnam 
back!o{t·ound: 
nudcar 
disarmament and non-intervention in 
Central America. Are there parallels 
between the <·urrent situation and the 
events in Southeast Asia twenty years 
ago? "Of course. Massive in tel'\ ention 
in the internal afTairs of '>mall third-
world countries, blind anti-Commu-
nism, inability to understand that the 
roots of rebellion lie in lO<·al '>Oil rather 
than foreign, the gradual drifl 
Coffin has already be<.•n tc> Nicarai{Ua 
twice, just as he went to H.mot in IQ72. 
Riverside boasts an unusual numlx•t of 
speakers and \'isuors from Ct•ntral 
America and has been the site of s<.'v<.·ral 
protest fasts. 


Coffin's rdati-.e silence doesn't bothl·r 
him, because he confidently prt•dicts the 
return of the "ethical unrest" of the six-
ties. He perceives two dominant tradi- 
tions in American politi(al l<·ader'ihtp, 
one represented by the zealous sdf-
righteousness which led to Vietnam, 
and the other by the "Socratic gadnies" 
who opposed it. "Unrest has to return," 
he 
says, 
shrugging his shoulders, 
"because the line of oppression won't 
stop, and more and more people will get 
fed up. Besides, anger maintains your 
sanity- if you 
don't 
argue when 
Reagan says, 'the US hils never been an 
a~grt·ssor,' you've already slipped into 
some unreal situation. Or," he chuckles, 
"you might say a significant Satanic 
triumph has taken place." 


What Coffin does miss is the "decent 
ang<.·r" which he felt among students in 
the sixties. He concedes that there were 
a 
"lot 
of 'right-ons' which 
were 
substituu.·s for good thinking," but 
nothing annoys him more than the 
apathy he so often encounters today. 
estx•<:ially when it is evinced by students 
at places like 
Yale. 
"It's so self- 
indul~ent. For a bunch of Yale students 
to feel like there's nothing they can do is 
just an excuse to lake another trip tO 
Mory's. If you're disillusioned, you 
have to take vourself to task for having 
illusions in the first place. Reality is 
wugh." 


Because of the power and prestige of 
its alumni and students, Coffin also has 
a special fear of what apathetic Yalies 
can achieve: "It takes a Ph.D. to blow 
up the world." H is feeling is that the 
university's moral relativism tended to 
produce "kids who were so bright, so 
clever, and so lacking in wisdom and 
compassion." 


Coffin himself hasn't slackened, nor 
does he believe most of his closer 
associates from his Vietnam protest 
days have. In his case, one reason for 
perseverance despite changing 
political winds has been his religious 
orientation, which not only doesn't 
preclude political activism, but is in fact 
the source of it. He considers himself an 
orthodox believer, although his church 
is inter-denominational. H is religion is 
one of optimism; he believes that "the 
whole C hristian understanding of sin, 
as well as the fact that there's more mer-
cy in God than there is sin in us is ab-
solutely central to my own personal 
well-being." Coffin's book~helves, which 
contain ponderous-looking theological 
commentaries alongside the Journals of 
Sylvia Plath, My Harvard, My Yale and 
Soviet Policy in the Arc of Crisis, testify to 
the nearness of his religious beliefs to his 
other interests. 


Most importantly, Coffin believes 
that 
the triumph of the "gadflies" 
ultimately depends upon an ability to 
see the wider moral implications of 
one•s activities. "Of course if we had a 
really hot war on our hands, the reac-
tion would be, 'Our sons should not be 
dying in a foreign land for a bad cause,' 
and you'd see protest. Now you'd hope 
people would take the next step: nobody's 
sons should be dying anywhere for a bad 
cause." A glint reappears in Coffin's 
eye. "After all," he adds "moral excite-
ment keeps things interesting." And he 
has faith; he still believes that "T hings 
do change. Things did change. And if 
you care about poor people at all, 
you've got reason enough to knock 
yourself out. All we have to do is take 
democracy more seriously at home, so 
we don't destroy it abroad." 


Anne Applebaum is an associate editor of 
T NJ. 


**Title: Arthur Galston Against the Withering Rain**
**Author: W. Hampton Sides**
**Page number(s): 35-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
In 1943 the United States Army Chemical Corps at Fort Detrick Laboratories in Frederick, Maryland, was at work on a scientific solution to the problem of visibility in jungle warfare. Thousands of American combat soldiers were being killed by the Japanese on island strongholds in the Pacific theater of World War II, cut down by an unseen enemy hiding in the dense underbrush.

In 1943 Arthur W. Galston (now a renowned plant biologist at Yale) was spending most of his time in a laboratory at the University of Illinois. He must have seemed innocent enough in those days, a 23-year-old botanist from Cornell, working away at his soybean pods for a Ph.D. He had discovered that by spraying his plants with a certain concentration of a chemical compound known as TIBA, he could enhance the budding process and improve soybean yields by as much as 30 percent. Galston was pleased with his discovery ("I felt good inside," he later said, "you know- more soybeans, more happiness"). So he gathered together his evidence, wrote up his thesis and gave it the innocuous title, "On the Physiology of Flowering, With Especial Reference to Soybeans."

When Galston handed in his thesis and headed off for the Navy in 1944, he thought he was through with TIBA. Soon a company in Skokie, Illinois, patented a form of TIBA and successfully marketed it as a productive agricultural compound. Meanwhile, Galston, who never made a cent off his formula, served as an agriculture officer for the U.S.N. Military Government at Okinawa.

Others became interested in TIBA as well. The boys at Fort Detrick got wind of Galston's discovery. They were paying special attention to one inconspicuous paragraph in Galston's thesis in which he had noted that TIBA, when applied in slightly higher concentrations, caused the leaves to fall off his soybean plants. Soon Army officials were contacting him to find out more. "They weren't interested in my soybean pods," said Galston, "They were interested in defoliants." The Chemical Corps spent months studying the "abscission-promoting properties" of TIBA, mixing up other compounds, synthesizing chemical analogs, narrowing in on the perfect herbicide. In a time of all-out war, Galston was not going to argue with the military over the rights to his soybean compound. "That was in those dark days, when we were all working furiously to clobber Hitler," Galston recalled. "Even had I been fully aware then of the potentially destructive nature of my research- which I wasn't- I still wouldn't have balked. We were all in this together."

The chemists at Fort Detrick did not find the formula they were looking for in time for World War II. President Truman ordered the bombing of Hiroshima on August 6, 1945, and soon thereafter interest in strategic defoliants diminished.

Not until 1961, when the United States first entered the conflict in Vietnam, was the Pentagon convinced that the time was ripe for defoliants. "Unwittingly, in my attempt to solve a basic problem, I had spawned a destructive weapon."

Military experts argued that chemicals could be used not only to expose the hidden trails in the Asian jungles, but also to starve out the Viet Cong. Another purpose for employing chemicals would later be revealed: by spraying and destroying crops in civilian areas, it was thought the Army could create a flow of refugees from Communist-controlled villages into regions occupied by the South Vietnamese government.

The new chemical the Department of Defense was boasting about was known as Agent Orange, so named because it was initially stored in 55-gallon drums identified with orange stripes painted on the sides. Modeled after Galston's prototype TIBA, Agent Orange was essentially composed of two chemicals which in 1960 were generally thought to be safe, although DOD had done little testing to determine precisely how toxic they were to humans. Biochemists did know that one of the chemicals, called 2,4,5-T, contained dioxin impurities. It was also known that 2,4,5-T could cause a skin condition known as chloracne, and that it could produce serious birth defects in laboratory rats. But DOD maintained that the potential hazards to humans were "so small as to be inconsequential."

"The Department of Defense made a less-than-zealous attempt to understand the possible biological consequences of using this chemical," said Galston. "DOD was saying, 'Look, we can do this cleanly! All we have to do is knock the leaves off the trees and we can fight our own war.' That was a message the field marshals were eager to hear."


So at the insistence of his military advisors, President Kennedy authorized the first experimental spraying of Agent Orange over Vietnam in 1961. In the 10 years that followed the United States Air Force sprayed over 100 million




**Agent Orange: A Botanist's Dilemma**
**Author: [Not specified]**
**Page number(s): 37-39**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
; 
I 
"Introducing chemicals into the V ietnam 
War was just another turning of the screws." 
pounds of herbicides ovc·r Vietnam. 
Cambodia and Laos in a full-scak 
chemical campaign that was given the 
code name Operation Ranch H anel. 
"We were engaged in the;: largest 
opt·ration of its kind in hisrory," said 
Galsron. "It has bc.Tn !{ivc.·n the name of 
't•cocicfto .' We sprayc.·d many tons of 
various kinds of dwmicals ove•· 5 
million acres, whit·h is a mnsidt·rable 
piece of real estate, almost the size of 
Massachusetts. And in so doing, ·we• not 
only caused vast devastation to the 
mangroves and the upland fclrests. and 
to a certain extent to cultivated lands. 
but we also caused va<;t devastation to 
the wildlife, and possiblv to man as 
well." 

Today, many scientists in Vit•tnam 
and the US are convmced that Agent 
Orange has caused substantial long-
term damage to human ht•alth in 
Southeast Asia, most notably in the· 
form of congenital birth defects and a 
high rate of miscarriages among Viet-
namese women. Also, some 60.000 
Vietnam veterans at 
VA hospitals 
around the US have complained of 
medical 
problems - ranging 
from 
respiratory ailments 10 skin cann-r to 
sterility-which they daim resulted 
from exposure to Agt•nt Oranl{<'. The 
war veterans in .January of f979 filed a 
class action suit in a Feckral Distriu 
Coun on Lon!{ Island again<;t tht· 
government and the 
Do"~ Chemical 
Company (the major manufanurer of 
Agent Orange durin!{ the· "'ar). "Do\' 
officials knew of the· harmful com-
ponents of Agent Oranl.{e' bat k in tlw 
fifties," said Galsron, "and it'" on that 
basis that the vt·terans han· indudt•d 
Dow in the J;m.,uir. Bt•ntu.,t• if thn 
knew about the harmful compom·nt·, 
and did not tell tht• governnwnt. "h1c h 
was solidting 1he rnanuf~ll turin'{ of it. 
then Dnw is equally c.ulp.tbk." 

Arthur Galston. the 64-yc.:ar·-olcl Eaton 
Professor of Botany at Yale feels partly 
responsible for the whole amtir. "Unwit-
tingly, in m y attempt 10 solve a bask 
p•·oblcm," Galston later cold the 
Yal~ 
Daily New'S, "I had spawned a destruc-
tive weapon." He latc..·r wrote: "Evt•n the 
botanist, one of the last of the scientific 
innocents, can be..· involved in problt-ms 
permeating every aspc..·<·t of s<x·ic..·t y. 
M any scientists arc nm' comin~ to f~·d 
that they cannot su1-rc..·nckr control of 
their findings w busine'lsme·n. politi-
cians or others for indisniminatc..· and 
unregulated use in so<:ial or military 
contexts." 

Galston's conscicn<·c prompted him 
to study the cfTects of Al{ent Oranl{c.· in 
tht· rice fields and manl{rm·t•s of Vit·t-
nam. He has travdkd there on fiv1• dif-
ferent occasions sinn· 1971 t<l studv tlw 
environmental impact of the..· <It-foliation 
campaign. "It seemed to nw that it 
wasn't right to usc my education 
- \•.'hich after all the public had gi\'1'11 
me-w find snmethi ng whkh could lx· 
socially detrimental and tlwn just wa~h 
my hands of it and walk away. r didn't 
think that was an cthic·al way 
to 
behave." 

Galston is a short, pleasant man 
whose hair is now silvery gray. In his 
office on the ninth floor of Kline 
Biology Tower he keeps a small sample 
bottle of a Dow product marked, 
simply, ~oRANGE." On the walls are 
photographs of Galston posing with 
Asian leaders, among them, Chou En-
Lai of the People's Republic of China. 
Galston. in fact, was the first Amerl<:an 
scientist to go to Red China. back in 
1971. He has a way of making his 
listeners forget how unusual his life's 
work has been. He can make the most 
dramatic episodes in his life seem rather 
commonplace, like the time he was 
interviewed by the State Depanment as 
a "'China expert,"' after having spent 17 
pre<·inus days on the main land. O r the· 
time he testified in a Congressional 
hearing on defoliation in Vietnam. Just 
a week ago he was in Cuba on a scien-
tific tour. Yet he always seems to come 
across as the same unassuming botanist 
who could spend a year working with 
soybeans back in Illinois. 

Galston played an indispensible role 
in denouncing Operation R anch H and. 
"By 1966 I was convinced that there was 
something to worry about, so I was now 
taking a ~il.{orous anti-herbicide spray-
ing point of view. In the name of the 
American people, we wert' spraying 
chemicals bver Vietnam that were kill-
ing plants, ruining the ecology, altering 
things. I started asking my colleagues, 
'Is that what we as American people 
ought to be doing over there?' I mean, 
the whol<.- Vietnam busine ., was so 
complicau·d anyho~' ." 

First, there was the que<>tion of 
whether we w<.-re violating the Geneva 
Gas Protocol of 1925 which outlawed 
chemical and biological warfare. The 
United State'! had never actually signed 
that document, but it had approved a 
UN Resolu tion which banned the us,.. 
of "asphvxiatin~. poisonous or other 
ga.;es., or •analt'X{ous liquids, materials, 
or devices" in war. Galston was not 
prepared to say whether the Americans 
were violating the letter of the Resolu-
tion ("that is a lawyer's question," he 
said) but he was fairly certain they were 
violating ItS spirit. Not "only was the 
United States using herbicide , Galston 
learned, but also millions of pounds of a 
"riot control" gas known as CS to flush 
out caves and structures occupied by 
the Vi<.'t Cong. 

Ev<.-n more troubling to Galston was 
the fact that the milital")· spraying 
operation was affecting civilian popula-
tion.;. Tht•n· wa~ im n'asin\{ t''- idcnc-t' 
that non-romh uants. partltul..trl\" Viet· 
llitrlll'~t· 
hll<111'11 Wt'rt." belnl{ do privl"d 
or food 
Froru early on II lx·ntrnt• ap-
pan:nt that the I{OVt'rnment was covt'r-
ing somethin~ up. "The American and 
South V1etnamese authorities in Saigon 
were hmdering our attempts to figure 
out "hat wac; 
~oing on Clearly we 
"'ert'n't getting the facts about the ex-
tent of the d<.-foliation. Until we staned


to scream abbut it, the whole operation 
was kept secret. Operation Ranch 
Hand was carried out with great scien-
tific rigor. The planes sprayed in forma-
tions, and the dosages were all very 
clearly worked out." 

At a meeting of the influential 
American Society of Plant Physiologists 
in 1966, Galston suggested sending an 
official letter to President Lyndon 
Johnson protesting the spraying of 
Agent Orange. The Society's executive 
committee voted down Galston's pro-
posal. (Galston later discovered that the 
executive committee's chairman had 
held a research contract on defoliants 
from Fort Detr·ick laboratories.) So as a 
substitute, Galston and a dozen of his 
colleagues sent Johnson a letter of their 
own: 

Wt· wioe;h tu n1ake kno" n co vou nur w riuuc;; 
mi~l{ivinl{s c-onn~rninl{ tht• u~· of c·ht•mic al 
hc:rbicides for tht• <kstruc cion of fi><>d .-rops 
and for defoliation npt·ration' in Vit•tnam. 
II j, \afc 1u "av that rna..,o.;ivt.· u~e of t'ht·rnit·.al 
h.-rbicidt·s '"" ,;pwt the· •·colo~· of an ("ntire 
f<"l{ion. and in th<" "'"''lW<' of more• dt·finitc• in· 
formation. sut·h an upS<"t tnuld lx· c·atii<· 
trophK 
V.'c·lart•ln>nt<'fll<'d "ith tht· .-ITt·< h oflargc·-
"'i.(_.alt· fnod depnvation un a rni,t·d < ivilian 
military population ... tht· fi"t and major 
vktin•~ of any f(xKI shortage or lanlint• ... an· 
inevitably childrc·n. .-spt•t ially thrN· unckr 
fivt:. Thus. the c·ffet·t of our u<t• nf < lwmit al 
herbil'idt•> mav lx· tu st;trn· < hildren and 
othc·rs in the p;>pulatinn whom we· least wish 
w harm. 

J ohnson's response came in the form of 
a letter from Undersecretary of State 
Dixon Donnelly, dated September 28, 
1966: 

art' not h;orrnful tu 
people, animal<. soil ur wat.-r. Thl' t•limina· 
tion of kan·' and l>ru'h in junl{l<- <tr<'"' 
c'nahlt·' our mili1;ory fi>rn·<. both un tht· 
f{nnrnd and in tht· Hir. UJ <\pot the.· \ l it•t Con'{ 
and In fi)IIO\\. tht•ir t11Uvt'f1lt"nl' 
),., r<u tiun uf fc><><l < mp' i' und<•rtakc·n on· 
lv in r<'lll<ll<' ancl thinly pnpulalc·d arc·:" un<kr 
\..'ic..·t ( ;nn't c.·ontn,J. and "hc.·n.· "ignifit"ant 
dc·nial of IC><><I ,upplit'' c·an he dlt"ttt"tl IJ,· "" h 
clestr<u lion. Thi' is dum· ht•t·au<t· in tlw Vit·t 
Con~ rt"(louht area~. f<HKI j, .. , irnportant (_ts 
'"c.·apuns. 

(:ivilians ur non-cumhalanl' ••n· "-ttrnt·d of 
such at linn in tulvtnu" 1'hc.·\ an· askt"<i to 
lt'a\C tht• are.·ct o-tnd an.· prnvidc.·d fCwKI and '{Ood 
trt•aUHt'nl hv the.· (iu\'t"rnruc:nt nf Vic.·tn;nn in 
n·">c.•tch:nwnl an·atii. 

This admission made Galston and his 
colleagues all the more concerned. They 
continued to pressure the government 
until 1969, when Galston met with 


**Vietnam: The Defoliation Controversy**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 40-41**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
President Nixon's science advisor, Lee 
A. Dubridge, and demanded that the 
!ipraying be stopped. The government 
soon relented. In 1970 the Nixon Ad-
mtn tst rat ion 
officially 
terminated 
Operation Ranch Hand, although some 
unauthorized defoliation continued for 
several years. 

However, 
the long-term en-
vironmental effects of the spraying in 
Vietnam 
still 
concerned Galston. 
"Whether I liked it or not, I was 
hooked," he said. "I had to engage in 
whatever kind of social functioning was 
needed to .set the situation straight." 

When Galston first went to Vietnam 
with Ethan P. Singer of MIT in April of 
1971, he did so with mixed emotions. 
For one thing, the Government viewed 
the trip with considerable displeasure . 
"We were in contact with the Far 
Eastern desk of the State Department," 
said Galston, "and we notified them of 
our intentions to go to North Vietnam. 
The State Department knew the North 
Vietnamese might try to usc us for 
propaganda purposes-which they did. 
For instance, they lead us through an 
American War Crimes Museum in 
which we were shown all sorts of 
deformities supposedly caused bv 
America's use of chemicals. So we got 
the very definite impression that the 
State Department wasn't happy about 
our going. Here I was, an outspoken 
opponent of the defoli~rion program. I 
guess they sensed that if I found 
something and made it public, well, it 
just might light a fuse." 

There were also those at Yale who 
viewed his trip as a political statement 
against United States involvement in 
Vietnam. "I was both applauded and 
casligated," Galston 
remembered. 
"There were even some in the student 
body, who thought I was traitorous for 
going to North Vietnam. I had col-
leagues on our faculty who said I had 
done our country a disservice, science a 
disservice, the University a disservice, 
and so on." And when GaJston sat down 
with President K ingman Brewster and 
notified him of his forthcoming travel 
plans, Brewster was not thrilled about 
the idea. "Brewster said some wry 


thin~s . Sonwthin~ to llw t•flnt that Yak 
had lx·t·n thnHtl{h all thi-. otH t' bt'liln' 
with Rcwn·nd I\'Villia111 Sloam•l Collin 
and that it shouldn't ll<l\t' any problt•nl 
survivin){ round two. lit• ju-.t url{t'cl lltt' 
not to bt' li1olish. 

"M ind VOll, t ht'IT Wt'rt' a Jot of con-
llicts withi.n llll'. as an Anlt'l'ican lovalto 
this country. I was in tht' st•t-vi;·t• in 
World War II . ancl111v son wa-. in Vil't-
nam. and I didn't likl' th<' fact that I 
might turn up sOillt' '>lull' that wa" not 
going to hold my countrv up in a 
favorabk light. 

But 
I hl'lit'\ t•d t hl' 
ddi>liation opt•ration wa-. a horrihk 
thing, and. lx·laH·dlv. -.o do all tlw tWo-
pic who partidpaH·d in it. It \\asn't 
militarily "lllTl's-.tul. it introclut t•d a 
nt·w lt:vt·l of horror into an aln·a<h• hor-
ribk war. and it didn't n·dound io our 
<Ted it in anv wav. l .ikt• t'\ t'l'\ ont• d"t'. I 
was turm·d ~>llll\ tlw \'it·tnatlll''-t' \1\'ar. 
l thou~ht it"'"' an abomination. It \\as 
a pt.·a.,ant 'itxit·tv ht·inl{ dohl>t·n·d bv tlw 
most sophi-.titait·d high H'< hnolol{~' on 
earth. Introducing chemicals into the 
war was just anotlwr turninl{ ol thl' 
S<Tt.'WS." 

Galston has devoted a significant 
portion of his professional 
life 
to 
figuring out how scientists in the future 
m ight avoid similar perversions of their 
discoveries. His numerous writings and 
lectures on bioethics have touched upon 
one central 
theme: 
that 
socially 
concerned scientists must now follow 
their discoveries outside the lab to 
insure that they will not be used for 
destructive ends. "I used to think that 
one could avoid involvement in the 
antisocial 
consequences of science 
sim ply by not working on any project 
that might be turned to evil or des-
tructive ends. I have learned that things 
are not all that simple, and that almost 
any scientific discovery can 
be 
perverted or twisted under appropriate 
societal 
pressures 
The only 
recourse for a scientist concerned about 
the social consequenc:es of his work is to 
remain involved with it to the end ... 


**MONY Advertisement**
**Page number(s): 41**

These days it's more important than ever 
to plan your financial future the best way 
you know how. We're a family of financial 
companies that can help you make the 
most of your money. 

If you'd like to know more about how 
MONY can work for you, or how you can 
work for MONY, contact: 
Terrance Clune, CLU, Manager 
Registered Representative 
MONY 3018 Dixwell Avenue 
Hamden, CT 
248-9357 
NEW~0R" ArtWY(.~I"!' '00 9 9 
A FAMILY ()F FINANCIAL COMPAN IES.


**Poem: Untitled**
**Author: Joni Mitchell**
**Page number(s): 42**

And I dreamed I .raw the bombers 
Ridint shotgun in the sky 
And they were turning into butterflies. 


**Getting Back To the Garden**
**Author: Jack Fuller**
**Page number(s): 42-43**

Jack Fuller on:~inal(y wrote this article.for the 
Apn'l 11, 1971 issueq(TN.J , while he was a 
first year law student. Fulli'T is now editor of 
·thl' ;ditoria/ page q( the Chicago T ribune 
and author qf the n~w(y released Fragments, 
a book ahout Vietnam. 

More than an occasional stammer of 
fear accompanied me back to Yale after 
my two· year sabbatical in the Army-a 
fear that time had diluted my brain, 
and still more ominous, a fear that war 
had depraved my sensibilities. What if 
Yale had changed, too? There were too 
many variables to permit a methodical 
readjustment to the place. It had to be a 
matter of blundering. If I had lost my 
youth overseas, if I had lost my in-
tellect, I would just have to stumble 
through the rest of m y education as best 
I could. 

I had been drafted out of law school 
after only a semester and stumbled into 
an improbable labyrinth that twisted 
finally back to its origin. The Vietnam 
maze is "365 days or life, whichever 
comes first," according to the black 
humor of combat. I had been lucky. 
Now I was back, a little less confident 
than before and troubled by a few 
recurring, 
terrifying memories that 
seemed inconsistent with Yale's strong 
stone fortresses, droll stained glass win-
dows and fireplaces in nearly every 
room. 

But perhaps there were even more 
startling similarities lurking here. 
M aybe the maze I'd followed was more 
intricate than extended. That was 
something I'd have to find out in time. 

It was one of those sharp cold nights 
when the snow along the edges of the 
sidewalk squeaks underfoot. I was walk-
ing to a party, smiling anq thinking 
what a wonderful and mysterious stuff 
is snow. (One acquaintance of mine 
who served in Vietnam some years back 
told me he smiled a lot at things like 
snow.) I lit a cigarette. 

' Two years ago I had thought about 
breaking the habit. T~e evidence about 
cigarettes all supported a decision to 
quit. But then I spent an evening with a 
friend on his first leave from army ad-
• vanced infantry training. H e set forth a 
wager there was something to be said 
for postponing a decision about smok-
ing at least until all accounts with the 
Arm'y were settled in full. I must have 
looked unconvinced, because he per· 
sisted. He explained that two yead 
worth of tar and gunk in the lungs 
didn't make much difference in the long 
run, if there was a long run. But, he 
said, what if you were to quit the weed, 
go through the pain and torment of 
withdrawal, forgo the pleasure of that 
first nut-like drag after a satiating meal, 
and then walk into an evil bit of mortar 
shell or bullet that lodges where the 
tumor would have grown? The weight 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 43-45**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
of his argument fell heavy upon me, 
though I 
wondered academically 
whether continuing smoking and then 
getting zapped was winning or losing 
under his macabre odds. I didn't ask, 
but I stopped thinking about quitting 
for the time being. Sometimes the long 
run is no later than tomorrow. 
Now 
the 
probability of getting 
zapped was slim, indeed. The odds 
seemed tipped. Now there probably was 
a long run worth considering. I pulled 
long on my cigarette in contemplation 
of the new calculus and inhaled deep. I 
tossed the cigarette into a pile of snow 
near the doorway to the party and 
entered. 

A 
conversational clatter ' 
greeted me from the large, slightly 
unkempt living room. A thin, tiny 
phonograph played softly. Knots of 
11 
people talked about law and other ap-
propriate topics. 

In 
one corner, 
somebody was defending Charlie 
Reich. I didn't recognize many of the 
people or the notions they expounded. 
One of the two people I had known 
from two years before asked if I was out 
of the army for good. I told them it was 
hard to tell- if I had learned anything 
in two years, it was that the future is 
equivocal. Another guy asked if my 
ideas about the war had changed. I said 
I wasn't sure my ideas were changed in 
direction, just 
in substance. Ti¥tt 
seemed to make sense to him, though I 
don't know why. Then a girl came 
toward me through the lagging conver-
sation to introduce herself. 

She was small, with long black hair' 
She wore a sweater, pants and long 
boots. I vaguely recognized her from 
my first stay at Yale, and she said she 
vaguely recognized me. She was attrac-
tive and assertive at once, talking to me 
as easily as a man to a man. That was 
good, but I wondered what a horror it 
must be to the grunts (light weapons in-
fantrymen) when they return and meet 
their first 
liberated woman. The 
political consciousness on the issue of 
women's lib is about as low in the infan-
try as it is in a professional hockey 
team's locker room. The only chauvin-
ism a grunt has in combat is male 
<·hauvinism. Sex deprivation and the 
extreme tension of the fight carry the 
grunts' sexist orations beyond mere hor-
niness. 

"When I get back across the pond 
there better not be no woman waiting 
there in pants." 

"There it is." 

"No woman's gonna be talking shit to 
me. They're just gonna be fucking." 

"Roger that." 

" "Yeah, but it's OK what they say 
about going without l:kas. I'm for that." 

"That's a rog." 

I imagined the sc4me of one of those 
surly one-year killerS trying to make a 
pass at a feminist at the San Francisco 
airport on. the way home, and I laughed 
out loud. Despite their virile liturgies, I 
supposed, the grunts learned to live 
with American women eventually, just 
as they had learned to live with com-
bat-as a matter of survival. 

The girl asked me if I had seen any 
fighting. I said yes and half smiled. I 
didn't know why I had smiled. Maybe I 
was amused at the idea of how she 
would ask the question that probably 
·bothered her a little-whether I had 
killed anyone. She never asked. Or 
maybe I smiled at the very unlikelihood 
of a chain of events that had forced me 
to answer that, yes, I had been in com-
bat. Whatever, I didn't like my half-
smile. It was depraved. "Shit," was all 
she said in awe or condemnation. The 
silence between us was filled by the folk 
rock background music. 

"They invaded Laos today," she final-
ly said. 

"The Americans?" I asked. 

"Advisors, I guess, and some planes 
and shit." 

"Christ." 

My memory wrenched me back to 
the Cambodian invasion, back through 
all the terror of that first trip across the 
border into areas the North Vietnamese 
Army had held for so many years, 
through despair at the death and cap-
ture of colleagues trying to report the 
new war and through the awe at the 
destructive power of American forces 
on the move. For some moments there 
was no more smoky living room at 
Yale, no more folk rock. J ust vignettes 
of armor columns gnashing up quiet 
Cambodian roads, of the town of Snuol 
destroyed by American tanks and jets, 
of the little children's bodies laid out in 
what was left of the town square, of an 
American grunt on a reconna~~sance 
assault poking his head up from a little 
clump of weeds where he had run for 
cover and saying, "Jesus this is a 
beautiful 
place. 
We're going 
to 
fuck ... it ... up." 

"It's too cold out for the kind of 
demonstrations they had after the Cam-
bodian thing," she said, snapping me 
back to the living room. I halt excused 
myself and walked away. I realized I 
had been impolite, but I couldn't talk 
about the war in moral terms. It was 
easy to discuss in political and economic 
terms. 

I 
had 
thought 
out those 
arguments at length, but whatever 
moral arguments there were always 
stayed just below the surface, inar-
ticulate and maybe even metaphysical, 
yet shaping every phrase. I couldn't 
recite them. Now I was back into the 
most visceral of memories, and I didn't 
have the fortitude to explain them. How 
could I make someone understand the 
difference between morality and what 
happens to a man's soul when he leaps 
out of a helicopter on a combat assault? 

"How could I make someone understand 
the difference between morality and what 
happens to a man's soul when he leaps out 
of a helicopter on a combat assault?" 

The 
ew journal/March 2, 1984 43


How could I relate ethics to the smell of 
carnage and cordite? That would take a 
novel to do, and maybe it was even im-
possible to do in a novel this late in the 
day. I certainly had nothing prepared 
for conversation this late in the evening, 
. so I accepted the burden of being im-
polite and left the party. 

The Sunday Times at the 'newsstand 
carried nothing of the invasion. A brief 
report on the radio indicated that the 
girl was wrong about American ad-
visors, but that didn't change the feeling 
deep in my gut. It was too cold out for 
the kind of demonstrations they had 
after the Cambodian thing. One more 
tight knot in the intestines. I put a 
record on the phonograph and lit a 
cigarette. 

I didn't hear the song first at Yale, 
but that night I heard it best: a song by 
Joni 
Mitchell called 
Woodstock, 
a 
beautiful song. Its harmonies are at 
once disconcerting and enchanting, and 
the melody is one of her best. But when 
the lyrics reached the final stanza, I was 
jarred: 

By the time we got to Woodstock 
We were half a million strong 
And everywhere there was song and 
celebration 
And I dreamed I saw the bombers 
Riding shotgun in the sky 
And they were turning into butterflies 
Above our nation. 

We are stardust 
We are golden 
And we've .t:ot to get ourselves 
Back to the garden 

Bombers into butterOies. There it was. 
The nitch, the inevitable Oaw in the 
rapturous schemes I had been hearing 
so much about and feeling so uneasy 
about since returning to Yale. Con-
sciousness III. The other kind of 
Journey to the East. Shaping a new na-
tion: an imagination. Maybe it was 
merely a matter of my own limitations, 
but even imagination recoiled at the 
thought of turning bombers into but-
ternies by a quick stroke of the mind. 
When a bomber does its job, there is no 
mistaking what the job is. The ground 
shakes as if the world were suffering a 
seizure. The air is filled with fire and 
smoke·and a roar so profound that the 
whole earth is its sounding board. If ' 
you are a few kilometers from where a 
B52 strike comes raining down, it is an 
earthquake. Any closer and it is prob-
ably death. When there are survivors of 
the bombings, they are dazed, bleeding 
at every orifice from the concussion, 
deaf, and nearly insane with fear. The 
bombers that truly ride shotgun in the 
. sky do nothing but kill. They are no 
kind of butterfly. They are products of 
another imagination than that fired by 
the Woodstock experience, an imagina-
tion far less shifting as the foundation 
for a nation, an imagination as old as 
man- the imaginatiotr of Power. I told 
an old college friend about all this once 
and he branded me too literal. I told an 
ex-grunt, anti-war activist about it and 
he nodded and said, "No amount of 
grass or fantasy will turn a machinegun 
into a vase for flowers." 

I wanted to believe those lyrics, sit· 
ting in my solemn room the night of the 
Laotian invasion, but I simply could 
not. The 
sentiment -like the sen· 
timents turning and churning in the 
counter culture movement - was pret· 
ty. It worked only if the bombers were 
in the imagination as well as the but· 
terOies, if everything for a time were a 
pipe dream. J ust as counterculture 
probably works for any one individual. 
There is an ugly catch, though. Despite 
absolute idealism. people die under 


bombers. And despite the raised con-
sciousness of one man, a fact remains: 
power fills the vacuum left by the 
abrogation of power. In other words, 
there is always someone waiting to do 
despicable things if no one is there to 
stop him. 

Something deeper than just the 
fatuity 
of the 
lyrics distressed me. 
After all, it was a pleasant sort of inani-
ty. And weren't civilization's geniuses 
and augurs often a little ingenuous? 
What nagged at me that night was not a 
condescending disgust at a set of easy 
answers chanted in the cloister. I felt no 
disgust or condescension at all. In the 
bowels of all this there was something 
that brought Yale with its soirees and 
carillons and broad greens in tight with 
the Indochina war. A diabolical connec-
' "' 
tion linked them together like two 
prisoners in transit. No, I thought as I 
smoked a final cigarette before trying to 
sleep, this is not condescension or 
disgust. This. is dread. 

T he Vietnam Witness promised to be 
all about Laos. It promised, in addition, 
a clue to where it was I had returned. 
Averell Harriman and Cyrus Vance, 
the Johnson-era negotiators at the Paris 
Peace Talks, spoke early in the evening 
at the Law School. The scenario called 
for short statements by each followed by 
questions from the audience. P redic-
tably, the meeting actually consisted of 
short statements from the statesmen 
and long statements from the audience. 

At Woolsey Hall, the entryways were 
gauntlets of leafletters. The broadsides 
proclaimed everything from a national 
"class action" strike against the war to 
the promulgation of a separate peace 
treaty between right-minded Americans 
and right-minded Vietnamese. 

The hall filled slowly to capacity. 
William Sloane Coffin was to moderate 
the alTair. I wondered whether this 
meeting would be more than just 
another long mea culpa for national sins. 
So unsure was I as to what exactly a 
"witness" entailed that i brought a 
camera and two long lenses to record 
the action. There was no action. T here 
were mea culpas and contumelies against 
the evil, vileness, brutality and im-
morality of the war and its sponsors that 
were all accurate. But some of the 
speakers offered up their invective un-
convincingly, more like cocktail party 
matrons carping about a new painter 
than like tormented souls expressing 
real outrage. Others like Frank Branf-
man, a graduate student who had spent 
time in Laos with the International 
Volunteer Service, almost wept at the 
images of "life under the bombs" he 
dredged up from a troubled memory. 

The audience remained reserved 
throughout; it responded in blocs. A 
speaker dropped a good word for Mao, 
and the scattered Maoists rose to cheer. 
A speaker pleaded for non-violent con-
frontation, 
and 
pacifists 
rose. 
Groups rose like sympathetic chords ad-
ding occasional depth to their favorite 
melodies from the stage. The move-
ment had broken apart since I knew it 
last. Speakers hearkened wistfully back 
to previous rallies, former victories, the 
abdication of LBJ. This time it just 
wasn't the same. Jane H art, wife of the 
Michigan senator and a long-time 
peace activist, hinted at the reason. She 
told the students gathered to bear 
witness that they sltould not let Nixon 
get away with his scheme to undercut 
peace by ending tht" draft and cutting 
US casualities without reducing the ag-
gregate level of violence in Southeast 
Asia or even that violenc<- attributable 
to America. 

There was the crux nf it, that 
demonic link between Yale and the 
southeast Asian war that had eluded me 
for weeks since my return. There was 
the origin of my dread that evening 
listening to a song and remembering an 
invasion. 

America has finally learned how to 
fight its land war in Asia, learned what 
the French never learned, learned that 
the war involves two fronts. The 
American strategy that involved only 
the Asian battlefield was destined to 
defeat by the sophisticated plan of pro-
tracted war, originally developed by 
Mao Tse-Tung against the Japanese. 
The protracted war concept is nothing 
more than a plan built on a recognition 
of the material weakness of the com-

**Title: It's t9s4**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 46**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I 
It's t9s4 
Do you know where your 
children are? 
Find out 
Subscribe to The New Journal 
$7 -
one year 
$12 -
two years 

**Title: RenegaCies and Troublemakers**
**Author: Gerald Bruck**
**Page number(s): 48**

RenegaCies and Troublemakers 
Gerald Bruck 
I'm told there's a 
feeling 
school is dull and aimless 
now, whereas in the sixties 
we had ideas, purpose, pas-
sion; that causes were worth 
it then and not today. Is this 
true? Does anybody really 
think that? As I remember 
the golden age we were 
typically young and stupid 
and unprepared 
for 
the 
education we were offered. (I 
hope this wasn't only me.) 
Anyway: 
Magazines in 1964 said the 
world of youth had now 
begun. 
The elders 
were 
jumping to the sidelines, 
watching our arrival with 
awe. Cdlleges were "impossi-
ble" to get into; the new Ivy 
Leaguers 
would 
be 
"brilliant." I'd dreamed in 
hi ~h school 
of winding 
autumn roads, the weekend 
company of smart and 
perfect-looking girls, the dai-
ly 
fellowship of friendly 
geniuses and all of this and everything around us obscured 
in a golden, historical kind of mist. Admissions Director 
Inslee Clark, another dreamer, let me in. 
I met some classmates and realized we were an ordinary 
bunch after all. Yet waiting for us just inside the gates were 
famous teachers and officials of the University, a Greek 
chorus of J ewish mothers disguis~!d as elegant old WASPs, 
telling us how special we were, how brilliant, how needed 
by the world. This strange sermon was preached by adults 
who must have known better, employed by an outfit whose 
motto was Light and Truth. It was Yale's way of minting its 
own Chosen. "Freshman: look on your God! H e's bigger 
and better-connected than anybody else's, and He loves on-
ly you." 
Activities 
I heard Bob Dylan sing "Mr. Tambourine Man" in 
Woolsey Hall before the record came out. I met Alexander 
Kerensky. On field trips for "Rocks & Stars" (that is, 
geology and astronomy intros, the easiest way past science 
requirements) I discovered we were specks in time, living 
on a giant shifting granite geosyncline. I turned my visiting 
seventeen-year-old brother on to marijuana in 1966 and 
marvelled at his ability to keep laughing no matter how 
many serious people I introduced him to (he seemed to find 
the Dean especially amusing). We had the Beatles, fresh, 
through &rgeant Pepptr. 
The University-sanctioned way to court the female was 
48 The New .Journal/Man·h 2, 1984 
the weekend "mixer." College 
girls arrived 
Fridays on 
chartered buses. The boys 
formed a double-line from 
street to residential college 
dance floor and the visitors 
walked the gauntlet of our in-
solent eyes. Beer drinking 
and dancing followed; Yale 
had an unwritten agreement 
allowing it to violate the city's 
liquor laws. 
Trips to female turf were a 
private enterprise. They were 
called "road trips." Go ahead 
and laugh, go ahead and 
~narl, but College was just 
boys, so you went campaign-
ing for a woman's touch . 
Even 
from 
those crazy 
women, who had no sense of 
what they were, only what 
they wanted to be. Hunting 
grounds of choice like Smith 
or Vassar were .far away, and 
road-trip crashes 
topped 
Beth Callaghan/The New Journal 
suicide and mountaineering 
accidents as the leading cause 
of undergraduate mortality. 
It could be bleak, being Yalies together. One consolation 
was the Yale Dai(v News, of which our class produced a very 
dull version. 
One reason for this was that the fvews, with its own stone 
building, panelled boardroom, and oversized attention 
from the outside world, stood in for student government 
and many of our most t•ncrgetic members were politicians 
before they were journalists or entertainers .• The trademark 
of the News politician in my day was bland, precocious 
solemnity. He loved the big issues and he loved to fill up 
space, which was how one rose through the ranks. Our 
front page was standard college mess: a visiting lecturer 
reduced and misunderstood, the central fact of a news story 
completely overlooked, the wrong thing covered in the first 
place. Even so, we inmates wanted to take over the asylum. 
The News focused on education: reform of the grading 
system, an undergraduate say in tenure decisions, cur-
riculum changes, coeducation. 
Kingman Brewstt·t· was Yale's new president, an impec-
cably dressed man. Soon Prokssor Lynd would be among 
the first Americans in H anoi, aiding and comforting the 
enem)': later Chaplain Collin would offer a campus church 
as sannuary to draft resisters, while the thousands of rich 
old men who financed Yale threatened to storm to gates. 
Brt·wster's speeches were written in numbing generalities 
that took on meaning only through the exegeses of others, 
imnpretations he remained free to deny. He'd even 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 49-51**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
developed a languagt' of hurnphing sounds that sounded 
friendly and direct but was not, in fact, composed of words. 
We were living in the nursery of then-powerful men; I 
could feel the strong temptation to want to fit in. Connec-
tions existed. Perhaps 
forclx~aring, we could become 
powerful too. Neophyte politicians who thought like this 
dressed carefully. joim:d the Political Union and sucked up 
to senators. They tended to be Republican and resembled 
the Young Komsomols I met on a summer trip to Russia in 
1966. They didn't seem to notin.: that the action had moved 
elsewhere. 

Movement 
Ours was the first generation since the abolitionists' 10 grow 
up with some sense of the ra(·ist burden of American 
history (and very few of the abolitionists were much con-
cerned with racism). It was a th··ill and a relief to see this 
burden start to lighten. I thought then we were the first to 
see things str·aight. 

Religion at Yale was limp good will and empty chapels; 
the civil rights movement and then the war gave it 
something dignified to do. In 1964, the College was a 
center for student organizing in the South, thanks in part to 
the Campus Ministr·ics and Rev. Coflin. I can see the stu-
dent leaders on a lecture-hall stage, late at night, 1964, 
handsome young men with old-American names like 
Payne and Wilcox. A standing-room-only crowd jams the 
Law School Auditorium. an Emeq:{t:ncy Meeting. A panel-
ist arrives, late and out of breath, straight from a distant 
hot-spot. Another rushes out to arrange bail for· a jailed 
rights-worker in Mississippi. They look tormented. they 
are always exhausted, they are ha,·ing the time of their 
lives. 

Midway between the Political Union and martyrdom 
was a humming zone called Allard Lowenstein. Lowen-
stein, now dead, was a Law Sd10ol graduate, untitled na-
tional politican and a speaker of real bt·illiance. 

AI was always zipping in and ou1. gatherin~ lieutenants 
for crusades- now for the civil rights sit-ins, now against 
SNCC, now to influence the President, now to dump John-
son. His method was the familiar "you. you, and only you" 
(are great; can run the world) coupled ''ith inside info on 
Communist conspiracies among people you thought you 
could trust and vague promises of a pt·ivate meeting with 
Lyndon Johnson next week. 

AI was tomorrow's Washington. a real Hollywood pro-
ducer. You never knew what the hell was going on, what 
with midnight meetings and phone calls to the moon, but 
whatever it was, it was fa:.cinating. Polite, isolated 
moralists were drawn as if by ma~nets toward the flame of 
power, drawn by dreams .and the confusing glow of Al's 
deeply-veiled homosexual advances. 

Selma, Alabama 
I remember being 17, standing 111 my dat·kcncd room, 
looking through the window at the ghostly winter trees on 
the Old Campus. In a breath it will be next year, in a 
breath school will be over, in a b1·eath it will be twenty 
years from now. My freshmen friends and I were doing our 
homework, heeling the News, and growing daily dully slug-
gardized at Yale the winter of early '65. Outside our gates 
the world was breathing, turning, changing, while we 
played Requirement, manipulating abstractions, ignorant 
of whatever realities the symbols were supposed to repre-
sent, and knowing it. 

The newspapers were full of gory sensation from 
Alabama, Martin Luther King, a coming voting rights 
march. The Campus Ministry provided warnings, the 
Chairman of the News typed out a press card, and I set out 
on my first-ever independent trip on an airplane. 

I landed at the Montgomery airport in the aftermath of 
beatings there. The few agitators around tried not !O stand 
out and we waited for a convoy of cat·s the way people in a 
burning building wait for the ladder and try to keep calm. 
This airport felt planets away from any kind of government 
I'd learned about in high school. In it I thought thoughts 
like, does it hurt to have your teeth kicked out? How would 
I behave when danger arrived? What does pride cost? How 
much for loyalty? 

This threat of lead pipes and kicks was new, and it stayed 
new, day after day. Press attention protected the marchers 
from Selma to Montgomery, but fmm that visit on I could 
imagine what it might be like clsewhe,·e, or have been like 
before. Within a week my eyes had changed for good. 

Businessmen, officials, community leaders, well-dt-essed 
men who didn't look much different from our fathers 
behaved with a viciousness I would never have believed at 
second hand. The police were much worse. It started as a 
vision of the end of everything, in this decent, known, 
American place. And then a motley crowd's passive 
resistance worked a kind of magic in the world. It was as if 
a crack was opening in reality, and the adrenalin of all our 
favorite songs could rule the future. 

The non-violent struggle has come and gone. Some 
writers have belittled its nature and achievements. \YelL it 
was something to see! The organizers in Mississippi (a 
place so mean I saw blacks in Jackson scoot at my ap-
proach, from the sidewalk to the gutter, as if guided by in-
visible rails), the voter registration workers and the 1964 
"Freedom Summer" educators, the locals who dared to 
follow and then to lead, will remain for me the heroes of my 
generation. 

Reverend King still led events in Selma, but tensions 
between black and white, young and old, reformer and 
revolutionary, were just then bubbling up within the move-
ment. Blacks our a~e were getting sick of having the 
glorious roles stolen. Racial culture became an issue. As dP 
jw. ,cgrco:ation died. the choice of the next direction started 
to matta. Battle lines sprang up everywhere. Everyone 
sounded convincin~ to me. 

The;-.;.," Joumatl\lan.h 2. 1984 49 


I watched all this, moving through the barricades and 
scribbling notes for the News. I returned determined to 
learn what it was all about. My South stories got me on the 
News and Staughton Lynd admitted me to his survey of 
Southern history. 

Assistant Professor Lynd was a radical. He argued the 
existence of a moral code to which everyone everywhere 
was accountable. This sounded Christian to me, but he 
said it was independent of revealed religion. Demands of 
the state could not diminish personal responsibility. The 
historian's job was to find traditions and heroes to inspire 
the crushed. One of his extracurricular preoccupations was 
encouraging the poor and illiterate to record their stories, 
filling a perennial gap in the primary sources for future 
historians. His life over the past five years was wove.n with 
the Movement's. 

Crowds turned up at Lynd's office hours, filling the 
folding metal chairs that ringed his study, each visitor 
speaking in turn. There were white civil rights workers, 
unsure of their role in the face of Black Power; students 
with draft dilemmas; Christians in a crisis of belief; adver-
saries eager to tell him off; grinning undergraduates 
desperate for term paper extensions. 

If the matter was substantial, Lynd would hear his 
visitor out and meticulously summarize what he had heard, 
sometimes adding what he thought was meant or implied. 
Then Staughton would say what he thought. Perhaps he 
would suggest the nature of a choice. He allowed everyone 
his mystery and gave full, sympathetic attention. In this 
way he disarmed his enemies and made us all simpler. 

VIetnam 
By the fall of '66 the war was poisoning life at school. It 
started with the tightening noose of the draft, which in 
combination with the automatic exemption for full-time 
undergraduates, trapped what began t? seem like half the 
class on campus. Our situation grew so alarming that it led 
to thinking. Disaffection spread not because our leaders 
proved stupid, corrupt, and cruel, which they did, but 
because they started coming after us. 

I think we had enough energy to fight two wars-
haven't you felt the urge? Hence the later macho posture-
"going to war against the war makers" became a slogan. I 
think many of us envied our fathers the clear and evil threat 
they'd been given to meet, the contribution they'd been 
allowed, the solidarity of their generation. But this war was 
something else. 

No one seemed to know for sure what it was even about. 
Was it against Communism? Was it against China without 
having to fight in China? Was it to help Vietnamese have a 
better life? Was it to use them as cannon fodder for our 
global strategy? Or was the goal of each new escalation to 
protect the Gls who were already over there? (A lot of peo-
ple were hypnotized by Johnson into forgetting that the Gls 
were endangered in Vietnam because Johnson kept ship-
ping them to Vietnam.) 

It very slowly dawned on us we weren't just in the wrong 
spot but on the wrong sick in the wrong spot, trying to 
rescue a feudal order many times worse than anything that. 
had provoked the American Revolution. What looked at 
first like bad management revealed itself as evil. Our 
elected leaders were war criminals, personally responsible 
for hundreds of thousands of murders. They shamed our 
country to the world and undermined its faith in itself. 

Hundreds of thousands with the innocence or sense of duty 
to follow them were left in their wake, maimed in body or 
in spirit. These creeps step out in public today with their 
heads held high. They've never even apologized. 

T he political spectrum seemed to split between gangsters 
and outlaws, with less and less in between. The lies from 
the top became increasingly lazy, as if Americans were 
morons who'd believe anything. So much for the illusion 
that law, words, logic or morality ruled the world, or at 
least our side's part of it. Much later on, when it finally 
became apparent that tomorrow's leaders were getting too 
alienated, acting too outrageous in greater and greater 
numbers, 

Brewster-types recast themselves as social 
healers, against the war at last because it caused division at 
home. 

A Field Trip 
In early 1966, Staughton assigned me a paper on the 
political odyssey of Julian Bond, a black state legislator and 
leading member of SNCC . .Julian read what I wrote and 
invited me to co-author another stab at his memoirs, the 
publisher's advance for which he'd long since spent. 

That's another thing about those ti~es: we could do 
anything, anything at all, everything was possible. To ex-
pose the world was to change it. Everyone was welcome to 
help draw the new map, even sophomores. 

J ulian had been elected w the Georgia legislature from 
Atlanta in 1965 only to be barred for endorsing an anti-war 
statement. An historic voting reform had made his election 
possible; now the Georgia House was putting Soviet-style 
limits on what this newcomer could actually say or do. It 
took the US Supreme Court to set this straight. The inci-
dent seemed an omen of the pro-war orthodoxy LBJ was 
trying to promote, and it became a national issue. 

My task was to detail the State's doings in this affair. In 
early 1967 I lugged my files to Atlanta ro prove my hunches 
about the political establishment's secret machinations. To 
do this I needed to move in high circles, put in time by the 
spittoon, banter with secretaries, whatever. But how do 
you make friends with Lester I\.1addox, who was famous for 
beating blacks away from his chicken restaurant with an ax 
handle and who'd just become Governor? There wasn't 
anything in the library on that. (These people may sound 
like jokes wday, but they weren't at the time, believe me.) 

Then I learned that Maddox's Executive Secretary was a 
Yalic, he'd majored in sociology. I invented a Yale Daily 
News series on "distinguished alumni" and asked for an in-
terview. ''Terrific," said the Maddox man- I'll call him 
Buddy-but first he insisted on showing me a good time 
and there was no getting out of it. 

There were four of us. Willie, who resembled Slim 
Pickens as last seen riding an H-bomb into the clouds over 
Russia, was the college freshman son of one of Buddy's 
business associates. Buddy procured two girls from the 
Governor's office. Mine ehe<.:kcd Maddox's letters, wrote 
some of them, and was authorized to sign. H er name was 
Kate. 

Buddy fed us at a Chinese restaurant and brought us 
back to the Democratic Party's suite at the Henry Grady 
Hotel, where he took a guitar off the wall and sang the 
"Lester Maddox Fight Song- South Georgia version, not 
for publication." 

"Mmmm! Are we eve1· going to have fun!" said Willie as 
Buddy released us with one of the Governor's cars. Willie 
drove it around, on two wheels, for a while. It turned out 
that to have fun you had to "get a bottle." 

But if God was sound asleep and all of our parents far 
away, the liquor store clerks took us for the teenagers we 
were, so Willie led us back to the H enry Grady, where we 
found Buddy, and he went out and bought liquor for us. In 
a suburban parking lot near a children's night club called 
the Comic Strip, at the point of taking our first sip, we were 
arrested by two hundred cops guided by aircraft landing 
lights. 

Here's your researcher, inside a windowless police van 
racing through Atlanta at what feels like 100 mph, but 
nobody's singing "We Shall Overc<;>me," they're singing the 
"Lester Maddox Fight Song!" 

"They're going to ask us, 'Who bought the stufl?"' said 
Willie, as the chief radioed ahead to "make accommoda-
tions for two white girls and their escorts." 

"And what do we say? I've got it. We say that we saw a 
nigger on the street and he went and bought it for us, 
rightr 

Kate was sure our connections would get us out, but 
Maddox had campaigned in the countryside against Atlan-
ta and its soft cops. The city's police and politicans hated 
him. More, Governor Maddox was a Bible-thumping tee-
totaler. \".'here would that leave our host? 

"All right, where'd you 
~et the booze?" asked the 
sergeant. "Don't fool around with me or you'll really be in 
trouble.~ 

"Freshman: look on your God! H e's bigger 
and better-connected than anybody else's, 
and H e loves only you ." 

The l"'t:" .Journal/March 2. 1984 51 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Beth Callaghan**
**Page number(s): 52-53**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"Well, you see, we saw .. : that nigger on the street, 
okay? And he, well he ... " 
"Mr. Buddy bought it for us," said Kate, "but he really 
isn't to blame." 
"Who's Buddy?" asked the cop, already fascinated with 
the registration of our car. "I've heard that name before." 
That was enough for Kate, who thought she'd found a fel-
low fan and told him everything. 

Hour after hour we sat in the Fulton County jail tank, 
decked in all our finery and whiteness, while· police captains 
and state officials overrode one another's authority and the 
bail went up, then down, then up again. Our arresting of-
ficers "forgot to appear" at the subsequent trial and we were 
freed without any of it getting into the papers. 

There is life after arrest. Before this debacle, in fact, on 
the day Lester Maddox was elected, I'd discovered Ann 
Darling (that's really her name) who wrote for UPI, was 
beautiful, wore a pink miniskirt and zipped around Atlanta 
on a motorcycle. 

I had our future together all worked out, though she 
didn't know it yet. First, I'd steel her tender woman's heart 
to ruthless practice. Together then we'd roam the South, 
unmasking villains no matter what the danger, escaping on 
her Honda 50 into the soft Southern night. Annie pitied me 
my night in jail and took me out to supper. 

Her bureau chief joined us. They gave me all the week's 
gossip, wonderful inside stories that make you wish you 
had one just as good. I asked him how he stayed so relaxed 
that nothing ever seemed to surprise him. Alcohol helped, 
he said, and he bought me drinks. 

The room became a dancer, life on earth was fine, I am 
in love with Ann. Maybe she loves me too. She acts like she 
does. She asks lots of questions, especially about my night 
in the Governor's car. Yale was never like this. I traded in 
my story for her vows of secrecy, and we three friends 
laughted till the tables shook. 

Ann Darling's expose, citing me-of-Yale as the source, 
appeared two days later on the front pages of both Atlanta 
newspapers. I hid out, eating Rolaids. Maddox fired Bud-
dy and the girls; Buddy was sure I had set him up, for fun. 
Ann and her chief turned out to be lovers. Spring vacation 
was over. 

The Deep North was a lot less inspiring than the Deep 
South. Articles about the squalor of black New Haven, the 
• uphill fight of community organizers against the City and 
against Yale, aroused zero interest. Wasn't helping New 
H aven's underclass a challenge and an obligation? But Yale 
reasonably saw its job as investing in those most likely to 
pay !t back with interest, i.e., us. 

Meanwhile, five courses. '"A dominant of the dominant starts, 
bar thirty-two, and the dominant of the dominant that closes bar 
fortyjive leads into the dominant and theme 'B'. "'I was beaten un-
conscious in the slums one night by six black guys, 
strangers who did it for fun. "The work of Francesco Raiboldini 
may be characterized by the representation of finely-molded and 
delicate things that do not transcend, as it were, their separateness 
from surrounding objects . .. "On the back of an envelope: "E, 
Sarah Lawrence Fri: train to Bxvl, uphill rd to lst dirt path 
on left, hole in fence. After 11." 

By indirection we were learning how to bluff, bullshit, 
and sneak by. This was arguably an important discipline 
for later life, but the glowing transcript meant nothing 
more. (Trapped in a crucial Poli-Sci final valued one-third 
on a book I hadn't read, a survey of political philosophies of 
emerging Africa's leaders t"Be specific! Name names!"] I 
closed my eyes and tried to imagine the boss. H ere he is, 
emerging from a limousine. He smokes filter-tip cigarettes 
through a holder and has nostalgic memories for his days at 
Yale or Harvard or Cambridge. At one of those places, he's 
read the same books I've been reading. I invented three ar-
.chetypes, including a Poet of the Future, and by the time I 
got to the names and specifics, I had so much to say that the 
pen could not keep up! I was generous with those names and 
places, every single one illegible. For this I received a 
perfect score and the second highest final grade in the class 
of 300.) 

In 1967 a crew of radicals captured the US Student Press 
Association (which grouped hundreds of college papers 
throughout the country) and planned to use it on the cut-
ting edge of World Revolution. They'd invited me to edit a 
student magazine, to be financed by diverting the Associa-
tion's savings and its grants, that would begin with a cir-
culation of one million. The chief wanted me to drop out of 
school for this. H e argued that we were living in the era of 
America's Third Reich. The future wouldjudge us as jews 
judged Germans. The times did feel that bad, and my 
generation's sometimes morbid preoccupation with its im-
age linked us to our parents' obsession w;th propriety. 

The radicals were deposed in a bizarre coup at the 
Association's national convention, and in the course o( an 
unsuccessful effort to patch this up, I got myself elected 
Chairman. The deposed founded their own "Liberation 
News Service (LNS)," lived on the edge, danced with the 
Vietcong, and expanded their imaginations with fantastic 
quantities of dope. 

A role in the apocalypse stayed open. Why, for example, 
didn't I invite Robert McNamara to address our mid-year 
convention? LNS and its far-flung allies would take care of 
the rest: a burst of smoke would obscure the Defense 
What did we do in the Templum? We pon-
tiffs put on our red pontifical robes, sat on 
benches and read each other essays! 


--- Page 53 ---

Secretary mid-speech, the curtains behind him part, and 
there would be The Beatles, who'd start to play! This would 
signal the start of peasant uprisings around the world and 
in every American ghetto. 

"But McNamara will have guards," I said. "Don't you 
think they could panic and shoot The Beatles?" If this was a 
convincing objection for my friends at LNS, there were 
others who saw only the potential ("GOVERNMENT 
SLAUGHTERS BEATLES!" "FIFTY MILLION TAKE 
TO STREETS!") 

My LNS pals heard even weirder schemes. "Jerry Rubin 
called today," Ray Mungo told me, "very excited with a 
new idea. He wants to organize book burnings at every col-
lege in the country and he wants us to help him do it." 
"Any books in particular?" 
"Doesn't matter, all of them. There's something there 
and I told him I appreciated the idea, but there was a con-
notation ... well, I just told him it might be misinter-
preted." 

Logic, committees, professionalism, books, what was the 
use of any of it? Madness ruled the world. There was an 
element of envy in my horror at LNS's proclivity for stories 
that were "truer than true," or which "ought to be true," 
news stories, in other words, that their writers had invented 
from scratch. 

To be as free and ruthless as our government, to fight 
fire with fire: hadn't the President himself wrecked the 
worth of fair practice and restraint? Every sensible, logical, 
moderate path seemed a trap in his game of dirty pool. If 
Sir Thomas More himself had come back from the dead to 
preach the rule of law in 1967, he might well have been 
written ofT as an agent for LBJ. 

Beth Callaghan/The Naw Journal 
Yet to take up the rock, or the joint, or revolutionary 
disciplines to escape the dustbin of history, was to land 
squarely in the junkyard of contemporary politics. 

There was a romance to that alien and helpless feeling, 
the romance of a link to hounded bands in history-
Rome's enslaved Greeks, perhaps, or the Jews of Ren-
aissance England or of Russia, or Victoria's homosexuals, 
huddled in secret smokey rooms, alone in their time to see 
the whole world upside down. The guy in the bar knows 
what he knows, and so did we. Issues were decided by the 
inner eye; none of us with all our reading could know much 
about Vietnam, and going there to learn the truth just 
warped you worse. My certainties all came from one week 
in Alabama three years before. 

Though we were by nature troublemakers who wouldn't 
have lasted three minutes in Russia, few of us dreamed of 
getting down on Russians or other types of adversaries. 
Vocal anti-Communists were almost without exception 
America's own worst types. Sex-obsessed Bible-thumpers, 
virulent racists, war-lovers, they were the dregs of geo-
politics and religion. In their contempt for the exercise of 
liberty, love of regimentation, consuming paranoia, they 
closely resembled the foe they professionally opposed. 

Above all, they stood for "no fun." The anti-war movement 
willingly surrendered to them flag and patriotic turf. 

My generation, for all its alienation, lacked political 
culture. We were spoiled, used to getting our way. We ex-
pected fast action on our complaints. We Jacked the pa-
tience and the discipline and the generosity to do real work. 
slow, steady, compromised and undramatic. What was the 
real work, anyway? 

The Vietcong would continue to kill our fellows; thar"s


--- Page 54 ---

how they vott·d on their future. Many of the war's op-
ponents would continue to bait or confuse this country's 
votet·s in the name of peace. of "bringing home the war," 
(bombings, stret·t fighting,) of creating the New Order, etc. 
All of this would melt into air· when the draft ended, and for 
ye<us thereafter almost everyone on every side would pre-
tend that none of it had ever happened. 

We had some cflect. Led by events, limited by who we 
were, we were hardly her·oes. But we dreamed heroic 
dreams. 

Today's nuclear war and peace debate is much harder. 
We're in a mortal fix because of the too-smart-for-our-own-
good animals we've become. It's obvious the species has to 
g<'t more than a little like Jesus to save itself, and it's even 
more obvious that it won't. Can we be forced, like the 
South was forced by .Johnson's dvil right~ laws? Can we be 
trit·kt·d? 

Neophytc nostalgia-buffs: a dr·awn-out invasion of Cen-
tral Am.crica, fueled by a universal draft, will give you the 
sixties experience in person. Then you can call it the 
eighties. Central Amer·ica may not interest everyone, but 
few of us were interested in Vietnam either. It's amazing 
how quickly interest can pick up given the danger of being 
for<·ed to fight in a hot, wet, distant country on the wrong 
side against passionate .locals. 

Back at the ranch 
What lurked inside the engine, in this hurricane's eye? I 
joined a spook. I don't remember what my doom was to 
have been for telling, but in the spirit of those fabulous six-
ties r invite you in to my Secret Society: 

Scroll and Key still occupies its own prominent corner in 
back of Woodbridge Hall, a leafy spot so still and dead f'd 
walked by it daily for three years without ever realizing it 
was there. Through it had passed leading war hawks, the 
then-Mayor of New York and his predecessor, even Dr. 
Spack. "Keys" was said by its proponents to be "as impor-
tant" as Skull and Bones and "the best intellectual ex-
perience around," to boot. 

We initiates entered a world of schoolboy secrets, com-
plete with printed notices that said "DESTROY!" We were 
given keys to the immense outer double-doors of steel and 
the combination to the unseen vault just past it. Three 
levels of Tomb, a library and living rooms with green 
leather couches, an eternally-stocked fridge and freezer in 
the huge basement kitchen, absolute unbotherability and 
the valet services of a Negro servant whom we had to ad-
dress as Wamba; all this was ours. A safe ;n the library con-
tained bound volumes of essays handwritten by earlier 
~cnerations. Behind their latinate mumbo jumbo was the 
unmistakable tone of adolescent girls weeping away the last 
. week of summer camp, mixed with that local combination 
of great expectations and pretension. 

'1/1/e were known generically to one another as pontiffs, 
and '"·e had to assemble twice-weekly in the cavernous 
~•4 Tht" N<·" .JnurnaiiMarch 2. lq84 
basement to feast. On one of those days we gathered after-
ward in the top noor Templum, a wood-panelled vault-
within-the-vault, sealed off from Wamba and the inner-
outside bv a heavy wooden door and brass lock. 

What did we do in the Templum? I wish I could confess to 
non-stop nights with pretty slave-girls bathing us in oil and 
cheerfully performing exotic pleasure rites we'd never have 
dared to ask of our girlfriends. Instead we pontiffs put on 
our red pontifical robes and, addressing one another by the 
secret names passed down pontiff-to-pontiff for one hun-
dred twenty-five years, sat on benches and read each other 
essays! 

No wonder the tomb had no windows; it was a monu-
ment to human frailty . We pontiffs were young and 
healthy. which in itself certified us in those youth-
worshipping years as the crown of creation. We lived on the 
planet's richest and freest surfac<.~. protected by vigilant ar-
mies tnat kept the world in fear. We were part of one of this 
America's great t'lite institutions. And yet-or perhaps 
because of all this-in order to feel safe, to relax with one 
another, to confess our fears and ambitions, we were 
assumed to need all this as well. 

I was the worst pontiff Scroll and Key ev~r bad. I snuck 
in girls, I skipped the meetings, lost my pin, forgot the 
secret words for the sacred initials. complained about call-
ing Wamba, Wamba and finally quit. When T was in town 
- and I had to be away a lot- I tried to focus on my fellow 
pontiffs in the Templum, God knows I tried, but that 
hallucination of a setting just defeated me. I set upon the 
others and myself Chekhov's cold and gentle laughter, 
Gogo! wild with wicked glee. 

Home work 
Talk your way into Scholar of the House and you get a year 
free from everything, in r·cturn for handing in something 
big at the end. I proposed a history of Rockbridge County, 
Virginia, from the Great Slavery Debate of 1832 to the 
denouement of Reconstruction less than fifty years later. It 
weighed in (late) at 150,000 typewritten words. 

My cast included two locals who became Virginia 
Governors. Stonewall Jackson, even Robert E. Lee, who 
lived out his post-war years running Washington College, 
but most of my lives were obscure. Thousands of pages of 
letters, diaries, ledgers, and newspapers were miraculously 
preserved in archives at Yale, Washington, D.C., Rich-
mond, Charlottesville, Lexington (Virginia) and Madison, 
Wisconsin. It was a giant jigsaw puzzle and I worked in 
hopes that accumulated elements would start to glow and 
tell me everything. v\'e lived with Vietnam but they lived 
with slavery. How? 

Gerald Bruck '68, co-founded The New Journal with Daniel 
Yert:in in 1967. Bruck now lit•es in New York where he makes 
documentary films. 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 55**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
My tutor C. Vann Woodward was a patient and forgiv-
ing gentleman. I remember him ensconced in his corner of-
fice, looking like a melting icc cream cone, his eyes that 
seemed forever searching a library shelf in his mind. He 
said little in our meetings and then usually to ask, "Where 
is your evidence?" 

But one day he said, "Why study history?" 
"Why?" 
"Yes. Why?" 
"Well, to show where we've gone wrong, to find the 
reasons beneath it, to help keep it from happening again 
" 
"Nonsense," he said. 

The angel of silence settled in the room. 
"Then . . . why do you 
study history?" 
"Because I like to." 

Though Professor Woodward's contempt for racism 
helped distinguish him from 
the start of his long career, 
4 and his history of segrega-
tion, undertaken at the urg-
ing of the NAACP, was said 
to 
have influenced 
the 
Supreme Court in its 1954 
Brown decision, he'd under-
taken this last reluctantly and 
refused credit for his role. He 
wanted it understood that he 
would never compromise the 
web of curiosity and suspi-
cion that partly formed his 
craft for the sake of serving 
the present. Not on purpose, 
anyway. 

What a year to lose to 
school. At 
the very last 
minute I retreated to an 
underground seminar room 
at Yale, coming and going 
only for food or sleep through 
the subterranean tunnels that honeycomb Berkeley Col-
lege, looking for order in a sea of notes spread across six 
banquet tables, sometimes standing on a chair pushing 
scraps of paper into patterns with a stick. 

A standard Civil War bullet, huge and heavy. lay on the 
desk. It helped me understand the gruesome 1869 Surg~on 
Gmaal of tlu Unit~d Stat~s R~port on War Wounds-such a 
bullet in the arm or le~. to give you that war's ambience, 
didn't make a hole, it could tear the limb off. But my sub-
jects stayed strapped to the rails of history and I could only 
watch as the men gallantly tied themselves down in its 
locomotive's path and the girls and women cheered them 
on. (Thank goodness, at least, that they lost.) The tale of 
how the slaves were freed and then enslaved again was so 
full of surprises and pathos that I used to prowl around late 
at night in scan·h of someone who might like to listen to the 
latest installment. 

Problems, problems- my actors faded in and out-
when two good letter-writers got back together the record 
vanisht·d. I thought for a while I had all of history decoded, 
until my friend the nursing student, looking in, said, "This 
Dexadrinc I got you, you don't just keep taking it!" so I 
learned to sleep on sec·ond nights. 

"Where is your evidence?" the relentless Professor Wood-
ward would ask whenever something caught his eye, and 
I'd have to recite chapter and verse. !'Jight after night my 
nose got rubbed in an irreducible, specific, blood-real past, 
chained to the tables by ribbons of footnotes that grew to 
seventy 
pages 
of 
• 
alphanumerics and arcane 
~ asides. 
~ 
lt 
My people lead the great 
: 
anti-slavery debates, first on 
E one side, then the other. 
~ They policed John Brown's 
:; execution and stared in mor-
~ bid fascination as he died. 
i One met and questioned 
President-elect Lincoln; 
another led Virginia out of 
the Union. Yet for all their 
inside vantage points they 
couldn't 
anticipate their 
future any more than I could 
mine. 

I clung to my superiority 
-all of them were dead, after 
all; didn't that make me 
smarter? Irony or sarcasm 
broke through into the pages 
here and there, but I was 
beginning to see my su~jects 
trapped 
in 
immense 
glacier that was history. You 
have to grow cold-blooded to 
get down in-side that ice. 

The obscure few who saw a little ahead could only work 
their vein and hope the effort would fertilize an unknow-
able future. They sometimes paid a terrible price. But 
renegades and troublemakers made this modern world, all 
of it. 

I visited Yale last fall; it was a shock to find most of the 
gates locked most of the time. I know you study more than 
we did, that you have to work harder against the future, 
that it's more of a risk now to step out and run the risk of 
being foolish. Listen to an ancient alumnus who hopes to 
look up to you one day and don't grow old before your 
time. 

The New .JournaVMarch 2. 198• 55



--- Page 56 ---

SCIENTIFIC, 
PROFESSIONAL, 
YAlE 
TECHNICAL, 
REFERENCE! 
For the finest selection of scientific and professional 
references, come to the Yale Co-op. We've expanded our 
book department ... and computerized our ordering and 
Inventory . • . In order to provide you with the books you 
need on the topics you're looking for. 

Over 2,000 titles In Computer Science •.. from elemen· 
tary to advanced. Science ... Professional ... Medicine 
... Law . .. Foreign Language . . . small press and unlver· 
slty press titles. 

CONNECTICUT'S FOREMOST 
ACADEMIC BOOKSTORE 
11111111111111 
~..A_T,E# 
C::e>-<>~ 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
VALE 

