Publication date: April 2013
Volume: 45
Issue number: 5

**MASTHEAD**
- Publisher: Tessa Berenson
- Editors-in-Chief: Sophia Nguyen, Cindy Ok
- Executive Editor: Benjamin Mueller
- Managing Editors: Eric Boodman, Julia Calagiovanni
- Photo & Design Editors: Maya Binyam, Lian Fumerton-Liu, Emmett Kim, David Shatan-Pardo
- Senior Editors: Cathy Huang, Ava Kofman, Isabel Ortiz
- Associate Editors: Maya Averbuch, Lara Sokoloff, Grace Steig, Ike Swetlitz
- Copy Editors: Nathalie Levine, Justine Yan
- Staff Writers: Gideon Broshy, Ashley Dalton
- Cover Image: Caroline Lester
- Cover Design: Emmett Kim
- Members and Directors: Emily Bazelon, Peter B. Cooper, Jonathan Dach, Kathrin Lassila, Eric Rutkow, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, Fred Strebeigh
- Advisors: Richard Bradley, Jay Carney, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Jennifer Pitts, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, David Slifka, John Swansburg, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Michael Addison, Austin Family Fund, Steve Ballou, J. Neela Banerjee, Margaret Bauer, Anson M. Beard, Jr., Blaire Bennett, Richard Bradley, Martha Brant, Susan Braudy, Daniel Brook, Hilary Callahan, Jay Carney, Daphne Chu, Josh Civin, Jonathan M. Clark, Constance Clement, Andy Court, Masi Denison, Albert J. Fox, Mrs. Howard Fox, David Freeman, Geoffrey Fried, Sherwin Goldman, David Greenberg, Stephen Hellman, Laura Heymann, Gerald Hwang, Walter Jacob, Jane Kamensky, Tina Kelley, Roger Kirwood, Jonathan Lear, Lewis E. Lehrman, Jim Lowe, E. Nobles Lowe, Daniel Murphy, Martha E. Neil, Peter Neil, Howard H. Newman, Sean O’Brien, Laura Pappano, Julie Peters, Lewis and Joan Platt, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, Fairfax C. Randal, Robert Randolph, Stuart Rohrer Arleen and Arthur Sager, Richard Shields, W. Hampton Sides, Lisa Silverman, Scott Simpson, Adina Proposco and David Sulsman, Thomas Strong, Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Wilson, Daniel Yergin and Angela Stent Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
Points of Departure - 
Snapshots - 
Found In Translation - Yanan Wang
Derby Dreams - Christopher Peak
Critical Angle - 
The Syn is Dead/Long Live the Syn - Aliyya Swaby
Photo Essay - 
Of All The Gin Joints In This Town - introduced by Kathryn Osborn
The Way The Wind Blows - Maya Averbuch
SOLUTIONS TO SCALE - Ashley Dalton
COURTSIDE COLLISIONS - Benjamin Mueller
Interview - Daniel Yergin


**Title: Courtside Collisions**
**Author: Benjamin Mueller**
**Page number(s): 23**

An urban squash program 
attempts to bridge gaps


**Title: A Post-mortem of the Y Syndicate**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): Not specified**


**Title: The Men of Roller Derby**


**Title: Richter’s Retrospective**


**Title: Points of Departure**
**Page number(s): 4**


**Title: Snapshots**
**Page number(s): 16**


**Title: Found In Translation**
**Author: Yanan Wang**
**Page number(s): 10**


**Page number(s): 8**


**Title: Derby Dreams**
**Author: Christopher Peak**


**Title: Critical Angle**


**Title: The Syn is Dead/Long Live the Syn**
**Author: Aliyya Swaby**


**Title: Photo Essay**
**Author: Kathryn Osborn (introduced by)**
**Page number(s): 26**

Of All The Gin Joints In This Town




**Title: The Way The Wind Blows**
**Author: Maya Averbuch**
**Page number(s): 18**


**Title: SOLUTIONS TO SCALE**
**Author: Ashley Dalton**

The Connecticut Mental Health Center 
rethinks wellness.


**Title: COURTSIDE COLLISIONS**

An urban squash program aims to break 
down walls.


**Title: Interview**
**Page number(s): 34**

Daniel Yergin



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
4
The New Journal
our generation of the importance of DIY. It also has a 
lot to do with empowering yourself, bringing back the 
culture, really taking your health into your own hands.” 
My classmates and I painstakingly shredded 
cabbage, carrots, onions, peppers, and radishes into 
careful slices: too thin and the vegetables lose their 
crunch, too thick and they don’t absorb enough water 
in the fermentation process. After chopping everything, 
we tossed the mixture with salt and divided up the 
contents into four jars, one for each of us to take home. 
After two weeks, the vegetables would have soaked 
in their own juices long enough to turn into kimchi.


When I first read about fermentation, it seemed 
simple: chop up some produce, stick it in a jar with 
salt, and wait for the bacteria to do their thing. I quickly 
discovered that the process was not so dispassionate. 
I returned home from the class with my jar and strict 
instructions from Litwin to cover it with a plastic 
bag, compressing the vegetables throughout the day 
to ensure they remained submerged in their juices. I 
worried constantly about the health of my kimchi. 
I considered asking my roommate to check in on my 
kimchi while I was in class, but restrained myself. I 
began to view fermentation as not just an activity, 
but a lifestyle. Perhaps I would branch out into more 
complicated food and drink, incorporating some 
sort of fermented concoction in all of my meals.


Because of its ancient origins and resurgence 
in popularity, fermentation awkwardly straddles the 
realm between tradition and the New Age DIY culture 
currently embracing it. While it was first used by farmers 
and those in harsh climates to preserve extra food, it 
now represents a creative way to create healthy dishes. 
Litwin stresses fermentation as a way to eliminate food 
waste and increase farm productivity by preserving any 
surplus produce that would ordinarily be thrown away 
– a difficulty that I, having all of my meals provided 
to me in a dining hall, do not confront directly. 
Shizue RocheAdachi, a Yale sophomore who interned 
at a pickling store in Berkeley, California last summer, 
notes the contrast between fermentation’s various uses. 
“It’s definitely part of this whole artisanal 
food movement,” she says. “From the other 
side, it’s about a lot of people who are into 
the 
deprivation, 
hipster, 
being 
thrifty 
model.”


When I met RocheAdachi in a coffee shop, she 
ordered nothing; instead, she drank water from a Mason 
jar. A volunteer at the Yale Farm, her passion for self-
sufficiency and sustainability had sparked her interest in 
preservation technique. Her Japanese heritage exposed 
her to fermentation from a young age. As a child, her 
points of departure.


My Chemical Romance
My kimchi fermented in a jar by my pillow, smelling 
sour. I imagined the vegetable shreds bubbling in salt 
and their own juices, as the millions of bacteria in the 
container facilitated the vegetables’ chemical breakdown 
into the Korean staple. Nestling it further into an 
old sweatshirt, I made sure the concoction would be 
warm enough through the night – if it reached below 
room temperature, the bacteria would die and the 
fermentation would stop. My roommate watched my 
new, slightly bizarre nighttime ritual with skepticism.


My obsessive care for these pungent vegetables had 
only begun in March, after I attended a workshop titled 
“Break it Down: The Art and Wonder of Fermentation” 
at the New Haven Free Skool. Started by a group of 
artists and activists in New Haven, the Free Skool 
hosts volunteer-run classes on everything from herbal 
medicine to chicken raising. When I arrived at the 
first night of fermentation class, the long room was 
full. Fermentation – which keeps food edible through 
chemical breakdown by bacteria and yeasts – has grown 
in popularity over the past few months, both in New 
Haven and across the country. Both foodies and laypeople 
have joined in the trend, fermenting various foods and 
drinks in their own homes with Mason jars, salt, and 
bacteria cultures. The Free Skool originally intended to 
have around ten people in its fermentation class, but so 
many people signed up that the teacher sent around an 
email before the first class begging those who already 
knew how to make kimchi and sauerkraut to stay home.


“I’ve taught a lot of fermentation classes, and 
interest just increases every single year,” the teacher 
Diane Litwin told me. She speaks of fermentation with 
an almost spiritual devotion, likening the process in 
class to a magical experience. “I think it’s a big shift in 
Illustrations by Devon Geyelin



**Title: A Fermenting Interest**
**Author: Emily Efland**
**Page number(s): 5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
April 2013
family would eat preserved vegetables called tseukemono, 
which literally translates to “pickled things.” Originally, 
she says, she hated some of the pickled foods her family 
ate, but came to develop an enthusiasm for the craft.


More than the idea of returning to ancestral foods, 
I identified with Litwin’s comment that fermenting food 
is like having a pet. It not only adds a few billion new 
creatures to your living space, it also requires constant 
maintenance and commitment. After bestowing so much 
care upon my kimchi, I almost couldn’t bring myself to 
consume it. But I eventually gave in, closing my eyes 
as the sour yet spicy cabbage crunched in my mouth. 


A few weeks later I found myself walking to 
Edge of the Woods, a self-described “natural market” 
in New Haven, to pick up ingredients to make kefir, 
a type of fermented milk. The recipe I followed 
stressed that kefir was an acquired taste, but I felt 
confident enough in my newfound enthusiasm for 
fermentation to try it. Occasionally I felt embarrassed 
by my sudden interest in fermentation. Was I simply 
a bandwagon fan, latching onto the latest trend?
“I was that weird kid working at a pickle shop,” 
RocheAdachi laughs. “And then I came back and 
all of a sudden fermentation was the thing of 
2013.” She informs me that I’m “not the first” to 
have asked her about fermentation as a craze. “But 
I do fear that it will be too much of a food fad.”


One later afternoon after I strained my kefir, I 
practiced steeling my nostrils against its harsh, sour 
scent. My roommate once again looked skeptical when 
I brought the concoction back to our room. I haven’t 
yet brought myself to try the dish, as a troubling 
thought occurred to me upon first smelling it: I can’t 
tell the difference between kefir and rancid milk.
—Emily Efland


**Title: Not Rocket Scientology**
**Author: [Author not specified]**

The plain glass door sits between two storefronts 
on Whalley Avenue, and a sign directs visitors up the 
gray-carpeted staircase into an L-shaped corridor. 
Suddenly, his name is everywhere. It’s plastered across 
posters, running down the spines of books that fill 
the bookcases lining the walls, and printed beneath his 
picture, enshrined to the right of the entrance. As soon 
as you walk into the Church of Scientology of New 
Haven, you begin to breathe L. Ron Hubbard, founder 
of Dianetics and Scientology. 


Monica Koehler, an employee of the Church, tells 
me that Scientology means the study of knowledge. 
Hubbard published his first work in the 1950s and 
died in 1986, leaving behind a massive body of 
writings. There are no official leaders of the Church 
of Scientology—instead, all practices and beliefs are 
reinforced by Hubbard’s work. Kathryn Lofton, an 
associate professor of religious studies and professor 
of American studies at Yale, says there is no area of 
life that Hubbard did not touch on in his writings, 
and that practicing Scientology is “a surround-sound 
experience, where Hubbard is the surround.” 


Hubbard condensed his earliest research into 
the idea of Dianetics, which claims that the mind can 
be divided into the analytical mind, responsible for 
rational thought, and the reactive mind, the source of 
all man’s evil. In moments of pain, the analytical mind 
shuts down and the reactive mind takes over. Within 
the reactive mind are engrams, or hidden commands, 
which are formed during traumatic moments and 
lay dormant until triggered. Dianetics is the process 
through which a practitioner can clear the mind of 
these engrams and lead a pain-free existence. 


The church has stood at its Whalley location 
for the past thirty years, but it will soon be moving 
to a larger location nearby, to accommodate more 
worshippers. Koehler could not reveal any specifics 
as to when the move was occurring, though plans 
for the move have been in the works since 2005. 


Koehler said she couldn’t give me an exact number of 
practitioners in New Haven. It is difficult to quantify 
the exact number, she emphasized, because some 
worship at the center, while others practice at home. 
Worshipping at the center could include attending 
seminars, meeting with a representative from the 
center for a Dianetics session, or simply learning 
more about Scientology. This nebulous definition is 
consistent with Scientology’s religious structure as 
a movement; the organization is typically reluctant 
to publish figures. What is known is that, typically, 
Scientology has been most appealing to the aspiring 
middle class and is concentrated in urban areas, like 
New Haven, Lofton said.


But, according to Koehler, “the way to learn 
about Scientology is to find out what is true for you.” 
It does seem contradictory to try to tell the story of 
Scientology without experiencing it for myself. In 
an email, she offers me a free trial auditing session. 
Dianetics teaches that participating in such a session 
is the first step an individual can take to eliminate the 
reactive mind.



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Lara Sokoloff**
**Page number(s): 6**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
At the center, Koehler takes me to an isolated room 
relatively free of posters and books. She sits across 
from me at a plain white desk. Her soft brown eyes and 
calming voice add warmth to the oddly unadorned room. 
She begins by asking me a few questions about my life, 
and what in particular I want to fix. For Scientology to 
have an impact on an individual, she says, that individual 
must be able to recognize an aspect of her life that could 
improve: “It can’t just work on its own. You have to be 
the one that wants to change something.” Across the top 
of a pile of printer paper, Koehler writes my name in 
large, loopy cursive, and directly under it she writes her 
own. This begins our auditing session. She tells me to 
close my eyes, explaining that I am allowed to stop the 
session at any time. 


Auditing sessions are based on the mind’s ability 
to transport itself back to a particular moment in time. 
Koehler asks me about my breakfast. Separate from 
the act of simply remembering, the exercise requires 
you to relive the experience: to smell the scents, see 
the surroundings, and hear the noises. The goal of an 
auditing session, Koehler says, is to isolate engrams in 
order to reclassify them as memories in the analytical 
mind.


The idea seems ludicrous to me. I smile as I begin 
recounting my breakfast experience at Blue State on 
Wall Street that morning. There was no painful emotion 
associated with that morning’s breakfast, but Koehler 
wants to make sure I was comfortable with the techniques 
of Dianetics before processing a more painful incident. 
After I relive breakfast two or three times, Koehler asks 
me if I am ready to move on.


I think back to a time earlier this semester when I 
felt like my world seemed to be coming down around 
me. I felt like I was friendless, I hated my classes, and had 
gotten involved in all the wrong extracurriculars. I felt 
that no one I had met at Yale had any idea who I really 
was. She guides me as I relive this sort-of breakdown. 
She prompts me with questions about how I am feeling, 
what I am seeing, hearing, and smelling. I recount the 
memory twice all the way through. It started in Blue 
State on Wall Street and ended in my common room. 
An hour passes. I begin my third recounting. Getting 
tired and frustrated, I dig the heels of my hands into my 
eyes and suddenly all I can see is blue. It is a bright royal 
blue, suddenly extinguishing the blackness that had filled 
my mind for the last hour. Koehler asks me to describe 
it, and I tell her was familiar but that I can’t place it. Then 
I realize it is the blue of the Blue State logo. Shocked, I 
take my hands away from my eyes, and immediately all I 
can see is the red of the logo’s text. 


When I leave the church, I don’t feel that I have 
learned anything new about myself. The experience was 
not quite delving, but I imagine what else I could have 
felt. The experience was not quite probing. What I left 
with was a mind full of color—visions of bright, bright 
blue. 
—Lara Sokoloff


**Title: Silent as the Dead**
**Author:  (Author not specified)**

I knocked on the door of the caretaker’s office, 
but no one answered. I could hear a dog barking and 
someone shuffling around inside, but no one came to 
the door. I pushed it open myself and walked into a 
cluttered, smoky room. “Who are you?” the gray-haired 
caretaker asked. After I introduced myself and asked to 
talk to him briefly about the cemetery, he called out, “I’m 
busy. Have a pamphlet,” shoving one in my hand and 
pushing me out the door. Being so abruptly dismissed 
shocked me, but the Grove Street Cemetery is, in both its 
history and its architecture, concerned with boundaries. 
The cemetery is twice removed from the world of 
the living—once through the existing barrier between 
life and death, and once through the tall surrounding 
wall, which now dampens the sound of passing cars and 
trucks. It participates in a tradition of the dislocation of 
death which began with the ekphora, or the secondary 
stage of ancient Greek funeral rites. The Greek 
metropolitans carried their dead outside the city to be 
buried, delineating the city by creating an inverse city 
of the dead on its outskirts. Similar motivations were 
behind the creation of the Grove Street Cemetery. The 
first town cemetery, centrally located on the New Haven 
Green, was sprawling, haphazardly organized, and 
pushed beyond its capacity by yellow fever epidemics 
in 1794 and 1795. In 1797, led by Senator James 
Hillhouse, a group of citizens successfully petitioned 
to move the cemetery to a new location on the edge 
of town, where the dead could be better separated 
and contained. The carefully-planned structures 
included wide grassy paths and square family plots.


As a result of this remove, walking in the Grove 
Street Cemetery can be disorienting. When I first saw 
the street signs that mark each path, I wondered why 



**Grove Street Cemetery**
**Author: Margaret Shultz**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
April 2013
the roads of the dead need names at all. The bevy of 
different architectural styles—obelisks, sculptures, 
bare granite blocks—I found almost too much to look 
at. As I walked further, however, the organization 
of the cemetery started to make more sense. In 
Greek mythology, the mapping of the underworld 
is never for the benefit of the dead—it is for the 
living, so that we may make sense of what awaits us. 


The Grove Street Cemetery’s design made it a 
tourist attraction. By 1833, its fame was such that writer 
B. Edwards could claim: “And who has not heard of the 
beautiful cemetery of New Haven? It has been theme of 
more frequent praise among us than any other receptacle 
of the dead, save only Père la Chaise.” In this now-
forgotten era, the Grove Street Cemetery was intended 
to serve as a public park, open to visitors and tourists 
and couched in a sense of spectacle and grandeur. 


As its reputation grew, it became a thoroughfare for 
foot traffic and subject to vandalism. In response, a large 
wall was erected around the cemetery in 1845, funded by 
a group of concerned New Haven citizens. They chose 
to build with stone because it would be more soundproof 
and lasting than the cheaper wood. The enclosure was a 
formalized exclusion of the space of the dead from the 
space of the living. As I walk, these layers of removal 
reroute cluttered musings, and the wall’s exterior 
quiet results in a corresponding stillness of thought.


Whenever I’ve visited the cemetery, it has been 
empty. I’m not complaining—silence and solitude were 
the reasons I entered the cemetery in the first place. But 
I’ve also become fascinated by its unusual history and the 
stories it contains. Today, the cemetery winnows down 
distraction; it calls attention to simplicity. Away from 
the distractions of the outside world, the emptiness of 
the cemetery orders the chaos of my thoughts. As I 
walk through the cemetery, thinking about its history 
of distance and detachment, a similar movement of 
dislocation occurs in my mind. Here in the cemetery the 
structures of life persist, uninhabited. In the absence of 
other living beings, I forget about myself. In his poem 
“Grove Street Cemetery, New Haven,” Lee Edelman 
puts it perfectly: “Lost stories fill the ear’s one room/
with other rooms—all empty, room on room—/
while widths of sound, blown open, rise like paper.”


The strange paradox of this place concerned with 
removal and separation, however, is that it remains a 
spot of attraction for the living, a place of bringing 
together various pasts. It is neither a bustling tourist 
destination nor an empty Victorian ghost-haunt, but 
some combination of the two—a place where one 
can go to be alone and quiet, a place where one can be 
surrounded by a rich and far-from-silent past, or both.
—Margaret Shultz


**Found in Translation**
**Author: Yanan Wang**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

8
The New Journal
W
ith its clock tower, stone columns, and vast 
front steps, the entrance of Fair Haven PreK-
8 School in the New Haven neighborhood 
of the same name looks classically neo-Gothic. But 
one glance inside the school, with its mural-lined walls 
adorned by writing and drawings of every language and 
culture, revealed that its student body hardly matches its 
19th-century façade. 


On a Wednesday afternoon, English-as-a-second-
language (ESL) teacher Michael Soares retrieved Yasser* 
from his sixth-grade reading class to help calm down 
his first-grade sister. The girl had been running around, 
hiding under tables and refusing to listen to instructions. 
From afar, the interaction looked like a typical exchange 
between a teacher and his students. In fact, it was a 
communication chain: Soares spoke English to another 
sixth-grader named Tahir*, who translated his words in 
Arabic for Yasser, who then conveyed the sentiments to 
his sister. 


“Can you tell Yasser to ask his sister why she is 
mad?”
“He says that she does this sometimes at home.”
“What does his mom do when she gets mad? Does 
she let her be mad?”
“He says it goes away.”


After a few more questions, Soares put one hand 
on Yasser’s shoulder and shook his hand. The boy, who 
spoke no English and looked at the ground as he talked, 
smiled a little. 


Yasser and his sister are Yemeni refugees. They had 
arrived at school the day before with little prior English 
language instruction and no exposure to American 
customs. Their situation is not unique. For over half of 
the 660 Fair Haven students, English is not their native 
language. One hundred of these students have been in 
the U.S. for less than a year, and thirty-eight are resettled 
refugees from Africa and the Middle East.


“Every day I’m amazed at how resilient the 
kids are,” Soares said. He has been teaching ESL to 
kindergarten, first-grade, and second-grade classes at 
Fair Haven for six years. The biggest challenges arise, 
he told me, when the students’ problems are beyond the 
school’s resources.


With its integrated Newcomer program, Fair Haven 
School is the default destination for children of refugee 
and other immigrant families in New Haven. The 
school has had a long relationship with the non-profit 
Integrated Refugee and Immigrant Services (IRIS), 
Connecticut’s center for immigrant support. 


Many of the refugees, especially the younger 
ones, arrive at Fair Haven having undergone emotional 
trauma. Some suffer from post-traumatic stress disorder, 
others from separation anxiety. Many of their parents 
also distrust the public school system. The Newcomer 
program works to ease the transition from the students’ 
home countries and remedy parents’ worries, goals 
The Fair Haven PreK-8 school finds 
a common language.
snapshots.


9
Graphic by Susannah Shattuck; map by Google
always easier said than done.


“You can only do so much over the course of a 
school day,” ESL teacher Kristin Mendoza said. But she 
added that the students at Fair Haven are able to make 
friendships across cultural lines, which she had not seen 
at the Brooklyn elementary school where she previously 
taught. Though it also had a diverse student body, 
ethnic divisions had been clear. There was a table in the 
cafeteria where all the Haitians sat, and tables where all 
the Caucasians sat. By contrast, Fair Haven students 
seem to be unaware of the ways in which their cultural 
differences could separate them. Instead, they relish the 
opportunities to share their perspectives.


New English learners and native speakers are 
not separated in classrooms at Fair Haven. Instead, 
all newcomers are enrolled in 
mainstream classes and assigned 
ESL teachers who provide on-the-
spot support. Walking down the 
hall, Soares picked students out 
of their classrooms to participate 
in the day’s speaking exercises. 
He asked a class of first-graders 
for volunteers to talk about their 
experiences adapting to American 
life, and half a dozen hands shot 
up. He chose Landry*, a boy 
from Burundi. Earlier, Soares had 
shown me Landry’s latest project: 
a print made with a collection of 
ink stamps depicting two human 
silhouettes surrounded by a cluster 
of trees, with a star floating above 
the scene. 


He had moved his hand across the picture. “Most 
kids at this age just put a combination of objects, and 
it doesn’t make a lot of sense. Landry was the only one 
who made a whole image.”


Landry was unhappy to be called out into the 
hallway, where the ESL students often did verbal 
exercises with Soares. He sulked, leaning against the wall 
while two children from China played tag around him. 
Soares asked Landry what was going on, but Landry just 
shrugged. 


“What color are you on?” Soares tapped Landry’s 
shoulder. 
Landry shrugged again. “Green.” 
“Ah, I thought you might be on red,” Soares said. “I 
thought that maybe you were mad because you were on 
red.” When asked to explain what the schoolwide color 
system meant, Sarah*, a Chinese girl, spoke up.


“Red is bad, yellow is a little good, green is good.”
“What do you have to do to be on green?” Soares 
asked.
“Be nice. Don’t fight. Try your best.”


The other boy was Ming*. Both Ming and Sarah had 
been in America for less than a year, and were amused to 
learn that I also spoke Chinese. Excited to converse with 
a stranger in their native tongue, they chattered excitedly 
about the strangeness of America—the big country, and 
its fast-talking people.


Soares pointed out that Sarah’s parents work at a 
Chinese restaurant, while Ming’s dad is a researcher at 
Yale. Landry’s parents had left him at a refugee camp. Yet 
watching the students interact, there was no indication 
of a difference in their socioeconomic backgrounds. 


During the school’s St. Patrick’s Day celebration, 
the students came to school 
decked out in green. Many come 
from families who are unfamiliar 
with the holiday. But Principal 
Margaret-Mary Gethings said 
that their time at Fair Haven has 
made them “background blind.” 


The school is no stranger to 
all-inclusive cultural festivities: 
it had an African Heritage 
Celebration in early March, and 
a Hispanic Heritage Celebration 
last October. Mendoza and 
her fellow ESL teachers are 
planning a cultural fair for this 
spring, when they hope to bring 
community cultural associations 
and arts organizations to the 
school in a showcase of New 
Haven’s immigrant population.


Mendoza asked a class of sixth graders what the 
hardest part of their immigrant experience has been. 
Many of them laughed, because the answer seemed 
obvious: learning English. A boy from Puerto Rico 
recalled, “Everyone walks around, talking and talking, 
and you get dizzy!” 


But Katie*, a rambunctious, bright-eyed girl from 
Burundi, gave a different response.
 “I’m scared ’cause sometimes people be dying in 
the streets.” She paused. “There’s shooting and bullying. 
People judging how you look.” She looked up at 
Mendoza. “I wish in America there can only be peace.”
* The names of  the students have been changed.
TNJ

Mendoza asked a class 
of  sixth graders what 
the hardest part of  their 
immigrant experience 
has been. Many of  them 
laughed, because the 
answer seemed obvious: 
learning English. 
YANAN WANG is a junior in Jonathan Edwards College. 



**Title: Derby Dreams**
**Author: Christopher Peak**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
10
The New Journal
snapshots.
Derby
Dreams
By Christopher Peak
A fringe sport goes mainstream, and now 
the boys come out to play.
“C
all me H.G. Welts,” he said, extending a 
hand. “That’s my skater name.”
	I was in a strip mall parking lot to 
catch a ride to Sunday night practice with the Death 
Quads, the men’s roller derby team from the suburbs 
of Connecticut. I had learned of them from a flyer at 
a vegetarian restaurant in New Haven. “Join the roller 
derby revolution,” it said in golden characters. The 
team’s logo was a goateed man, attired like a soldier 
in the trenches and raising a single fist. The fine print: 
“Men 18+” and “Primary Insurance REQUIRED.” 
Welts did not look like the athlete I’d expected, 
much less one to embody his sobriquet. He was 5’10”, 
175 pounds, and entering middle age. His hair was still 
sprouting in curly black tufts, but wrinkles lurked at the 
corners of his eyes beneath his glasses. He seemed closer 
to vegetarian than brute, as did his girlfriend, Metal 
Malady, who was waiting patiently in the passenger seat 
of the gray SUV. 
Welts joined the Death Quads last spring. Metal had 
been skating with the local girls’ team, CT Roller Girls, 
since July 2011, when the sport was still almost entirely 
female. Welts often tagged along—he wanted to learn to 
skate. Lacking a full roster, the men of the Death Quads 
constantly asked him to come to their practices. “As soon 
as I can let go of the wall,” Welts always responded.
“I’m just sitting around at a desk on the computer 
all day,” he told me. Welts is a civil engineer, designing 
and overseeing construction of water mains, storage 
tanks, sewer pump stations, “basically anything that takes 


11
April 2013

Anyone could cherish what 
Welts loves about derby: 
the speed and smoothness 
of  revolutions in the rink; 
the mystical vibration of  
another man’s shoulder 
crashing into your ribcage; 
the familiar ache of  
exhaustion.
water to your house or takes waste away, we’re doing it.” 
He’d been working at the same company for nearly two 
decades, and wanted a physical outlet. Welts decided to 
see what roller derby was all about. 
To the uninitiated, a roller derby bout seems like a 
nonsensical blur, a mob jostling each other around the 
track. The bout is divided into rounds, called “jams,” that 
can last up to two minutes. Each team has five players 
skating at once, four blockers and a jammer, who scores 
points for every opposing blocker he passes. 
Some escape the nine-to-five 
routine with tropical vacations; 
others get involved in charity. 
Welts takes to his skates. There 
is nothing surprising in this. 
Anyone could cherish what Welts 
loves about derby: the speed and 
smoothness of revolutions in the 
rink; the mystical vibration of 
another man’s shoulder crashing 
into your ribcage; the familiar 
ache of exhaustion.
Like Welts, the majority of 
the Death Quads’ first skaters 
joined 
because 
of 
women. 
Some 
coached 
or 
refereed 
women’s bouts, but more often, 
a boyfriend wanted to  participate 
in the game that obsessed his 
girlfriend. Modern-day roller derby began as a feminist 
revival of a sport dating to 1935, when twenty-five co-
ed teams competed in a month-long race that simulated 
the distance from Los Angeles to New York. By 1973, 
the sport had all but died, dropping its athleticism for 
scripted violence. Derby reemerged sporadically through 
the ’80s and ’90s, with added spectacles—one variation 
had alligator pits—but derby as it’s practiced today was 
resurrected in a bar in Austin, Texas, in 2001. In little 
over a decade, the sport has exploded into 1,100 female 
teams. 
Men’s roller derby—sometimes condescendingly 
referred to as “merby”—began in 2006 with the 
founding of the Dirty Dozen from Northampton, 
Massachusetts, who faced the New York Shock 
Exchange in their first match in 2007. Bonnie Thunders 
of New York’s Gotham Girls led the feminist charge 
against men’s intrusion into what she referred to as “our 
sport,” saying that men needed to create their own sport 
or play one of the dozens they already had. Since then, 
she’s “evolved” on the issue, largely because she needed 
co-ed support to bring roller derby to the mainstream. 
The Gotham Girls and Shock Exchange now scrimmage 
once a month, and the Men’s Roller Derby Association 
now has thirty-one member teams, including Southern 
Discomfort in London and Mont Royals in Quebec. But 
roller derby is still far from achieving equality between 
the sexes. The Death Quads, the fourth men’s team in 
the world, draws few fans compared to the team they 
practice with, the CT Roller Girls. The Roller Girls have 
two full travel teams and three more for home games, 
while the men can barely fill out a single team roster. 
	

12
As the sky at dusk darkened to a bruised 
purple, 
we 
arrived 
at 
the 
RollerMagic 
Roller 
Rink 
in 
Waterbury for coed practice. The 
place was a time capsule of 1970s 
trendiness. Geometric murals 
wobbled on the walls, dimly lit by 
a web of pink, yellow, and white 
neon tubes on the ceiling. The 
worn blue carpet swirled with 
green eddies and snakes, looking 
like hard swampwater; arcade 
games floated precariously atop. 
Dante, one of the men, said the 
floor pattern has been the same 
since he was five. The pimply 
teenagers behind the full-service 
snack bar were finishing their 
shifts and clocking out—literally. 
One by one they punched their 
cards on an old-school machine, one that some of the 
skaters might have been familiar with from their own 
adolescence. In the middle of all this, the large skating 
rink looked timeless, its polished maple gleaming faintly. 
The Death Quads are coached by a short but 
stunningly musclar woman named Pearl Jammer. She 
ordered the men and women onto the rink to run laps 
and Circle Jerk, a founder and co-captain, led the pack. 
He looks like what you might expect from a guy who 
willingly dubbed himself Circle Jerk: he ran barefoot, 
pink-and-yellow hair almost as fluorescent as the neon 
lights above, hoop earrings dangling from his lobes. 
When he first gathered a group in 2008, it was the 
fourth men’s team in the world. C.J. wanted the team 
to be called the Circle Jerks, until the other captain, 
Skatebreed, objected. An assistant at a banking firm and 
now the team’s president, Skatebreed then adopted a 
name from a local group of punk musicians, the Death 
Squads, dropping a letter to match the sport’s four-
wheeled quad skates. C.J. and Skatebreed fit the sport’s 
older demographic, guys too old for contact in lacrosse 
and ice hockey who still wanted a team sport, or maybe 
skateboarders who had never played on a team but now 
wanted a chance.
Pearl Jammer led the group through highkicks, 
lunges, squats, grapevines, and an exercise involving 
primordial crawling across the floor. By the time they’d 
finished with pushups, the guys were sweating. The 
women popped up, ready for more. After another lap, the 
two teams put on their skates, protective helmets, elbow 
pads, kneepads, wrist guards, and mouth guards.
Girl Fawkes, the men’s team manager, sat on a 
tabletop wearing Pokémon hot pants over stockings. She 
skates with the Stepford Sabotage (a group self-described 
as a meeting of Betty Crocker and Betty Ford), the top 
women’s travel team. She says the men have had difficulty 
recruiting new members. 
Roller derby has changed rapidly over the last few 
years as the sport’s governing boards experimented with 
new rules to improve the emerging sport. Their efforts 
have been successful: roller derby now sometimes makes 
it into a newspaper’s sports section, rather than lifestyle. 
Some high-profile skaters talk of one day playing at the 
X Games, maybe even the Olympics. But roller derby’s 
founders are pulled between competing interests: they 
want the sport to gain an audience and respect, but they 
don’t want to lose their punk origins by going mainstream. 
“I still love that I get to play this really offbeat sport,” 
Fawkes said. “Before roller derby I did not do anything 
athletic. I was a poetry-club, film-student, read-a-book-in-
the-dark geek. I do not want to skate and get hit. But it 
was just entrancing.”
Folsom Bruise (real name Laurie Lawless, a roller 
derby name in its own right) had skated over to ask 
Fawkes about her wheels. Folsom said she was the same 
way: athletically challenged. “I didn’t play anything in 
high school. I partied a lot. This is pretty much the first 
time in my life I’ve done anything competitive,” she said. 
After she got her life together in college, Folsom worried 
she would regress without the structure of school. But 
there was roller derby. “Roller derby saved my soul,” she 
said. “In a weird way.”
The guys practiced a few more drills for the next 
week’s match in Albany, working on their offensive 
blocking. Pearl Jammer called them over. “Be there by 
four,” she said. “We are in maroon.”
The Albany fans “are a bunch of douchebags,” 
Fawkes warned everyone. “But why worry about things 
you can’t control?”
“Can we swear at the fans?” a tall man asked.
“Read your fucking rulebook,” Fawkes said.
“You can swear,” another guy whispered to him. 
“Just not excessively.”
Welts and Malady walked back to the car, apologizing 
that I would have to sit next to them in their “stinky 
derby gear” on the way home. 
As we drove, Welts couldn’t stop talking derby. 
“Sometimes, you’re there, standing up straight. The 
next thing you know your feet are out from under you, 



**Title: Men’s Roller Derby: A Documentary Review**
**Author: Christopher Peak**
**Page number(s): 13-14**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
April 2013
movie I talked with Maulin’ Brando, one of the Shock 
Exchange’s first players. “God, we were awful,” he 
recalled. During their first games, is team could barely 
skate, let alone race. “Now we are all doing tricks and 
skating backwards. It’s amazing how far the sport has 
come in such a short period. I guess we knew we were 
bad. We were judged against this template that women 
had already established.”

While women’s roller derby has sped to underground 
fame and even broken through to mainstream culture 
with derby-themed episodes of The Bachelor, CSI, What 
Not to Wear, Top Chef, Psych, and Bones, men’s derby still 
lags behind. Most of the guys seemed happy enough 
watching the briefer and more obscure history they had 
lived, even though most of the scenes with the Death 
Quads had been cut. 

But Skatebreed seemed disappointed. The team 
had made a bit of money selling snacks and admission, 
but it wasn’t the turnout he hoped for. I was one of the 
few people there who wasn’t a derby player already or a 
friend of the Death Quads. “We’ve kind of struggled,” 
Skatebreed said. “It’s really rough actually.” 

The night’s event was largely uneventful. No 
recruits had signed up. It seemed to Skatebreed that the 
men’s roller derby revolution wasn’t happening unless it 
was played before a TV audience. Worrying about funds, 
recruits, exposure, he seemed to miss the point. 

The men of the Death Quads, businessmen and 
engineers, had already achieved a slice of roller derby 
glory. I’d seen it at the first practice, in the flashes of 
Death Quad skates, humming across the polished maple 
floor of the RollerMagic Roller Rink. 

TNJ
CHRISTOPHER PEAK is a senior in Morse College.
Photos by Sean Hale
and you’re falling, going whichever way gravity takes 
you.” He chuckled at the thought, the way you do in 
daylight, as you remember details of a baffling dream.
I 
met Welts again the following Friday in Fair Haven 
at Channel 1, a tiny showroom and gallery within 
a former swimsuit factory. The Death Quads had 
organized a screening of This is How I Roll, a documentary 
on the struggles men’s derby has faced for recognition 
equal to their female peers. The guests milled about, 
chatting and sipping Narragansetts beneath a projection 
of a Death Quads game against the Magic City Misfits 
from Florida. Skatebreed hoped the event would raise 
funds for tournament travel and attract new recruits.
The Death Quads are currently the thirteenth-best 
men’s team in the world, their identity caught in limbo 
between all-star team and beer league. On one side is 
Crashasuarus Rex, who joined in 2010 after a lengthy 
search that took him through road cycling, mountain 
biking, jiu jitsu, and mixed martial arts. He describes 
himself as “competitive” and says he plays to win. A 
former college athlete, Rex is still young and attractive, 
the kind of guy who would look good smiling on the 
winner’s podium. But the team’s founders are an older 
group whose bodies often can’t keep up. One of the first 
recruits, Pastor of Muppets, has been benched while he 
recovers from stomach surgery.
Welts ended the replay of the game (which they 
eventually had lost) to cue  the movie. “I don’t have 
floor lighting or anything like that,” the Channel 1 host 
said. “If you’re afraid of the dark… hold somebody’s 
hand.” The documentary focused on the men of 
the Shock Exchange, whose captain was scheduling 
matches before he had even drafted a team. After the 


**Title: THE SYN IS DEAD/LONG LIVE THE SYN**
**Author: Aliyya Swaby**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

A
s a spectator of the burgeoning activism scene on 
campus, I’ve been struggling to keep track of the 
major players. Groups and causes at Yale have high 
turnover rates, and I’ve learned the hard way that it’s best 
not to get too attached. After all, it’s tough to have one’s 
heart set on Occupying Morgan Stanley when everyone 
else has long since begun Pushing for Divestment. 

But this year, I forgot about my pledge of 
disengagement. I chose to champion the Yale Syndicate, 
an underdog group with what I hoped was just enough 
audacity to successfully patch the university’s various 
wounds. 

I cheered when its tiny rabblerousing army 
orchestrated a walkout of Rick Santorum’s debate with 
the Yale Political Union on “traditional marriage.” I felt 
I could trust my damaged heart with the artistes who had 
manufactured a zine the Yale Herald deemed “Best Rival 
Publication” earlier this winter.  They vowed to save me 
— and fellow campus sinners —from the temptations 
of “unjust power, despondent apathy and paralyzing 
complacency.”

But, as I learned in the last several weeks, the Y 
Syndicate is dead. Or at least in a deep coma, lacking nearly 
all vital signs of life. Don’t worry: the process was slow, but 
not painful. In fact, they barely realized it was happening. 
Or maybe the Syn hasn’t died so much as dissolved. The 
solvent was time, and maybe a dash of apathy—along with 
over-commitment.

Perhaps it’s best if, like most of the campus, you were 
only marginally aware of its presence. Fewer to mourn its 
inopportune passing.

In mid-March I spoke with the student collective’s 
leaders-by-default Carl Chen ’13 and Marc DeWitt ’15, 
along with a few others, in order to perform its last rites—a 
verbal autopsy of sorts.

We began with its birth. The group started in the 
spring of 2012 as a circle of four or five students frustrated 
by a perceived neoliberal status quo and seeking a space 
for radical leftist intellectual discussion. They individually 
“brewed on that for most of the summer” and returned in 
the fall ready to christen their shared anger, Chen told me.

The term “syndicate” comes out of the anarchist 
branch of anarcho-syndicalism, which rallies an underclass 
to band together to control its own fate. Y Syn wanted 
an organizational structure that was similarly “kind of 
collective, kind of union, but a little more autonomist and 
horizontal,” Chen said. 

Like their namesake tradition, they aimed to avoid 
power’s corruptive tendencies.
 “We didn’t want a place at the table,” DeWitt clarified. 
Unlike fellow activist group Students Unite Now (SUN), Y 
Syn wanted to deconstruct powerful institutions like Yale 
without forming new ones. It was the perfect set-up: a near-
impossible challenge, a greedy corporate archenemy, and a 
healthy rivalry.

In the beginning, things worked. They held assemblies 
that netted as many as fifty members in front of Beinecke 
Plaza’s war memorial. They invited professors to speak with 
them, including political scientist Jim Sleeper, known for his 
scathing criticisms of many Yale administrative decisions. 
They even kept up a website until late September. 
Nick Leingang ’13 was most involved with the process 
of creating the zine—a homemade, collage-style publication 
common in activist circles. He solicited submissions from 
friends with similar political leanings to “revitalize public 
discourse,” the Syn’s stated goal.

Distributed erratically across campus in hard copy and 
eventually posted online, the zine featured illustrations, 
lists, articles and manifestos. Leingang wrote a personal 
essay called “Straddlers” about the struggles of being a Yale 
student from a working class background. Kendra Dawsey 
’14 curated a “Basic Bitch List,” which includes Christopher 
Columbus, “legitimate rape” believer Todd Akin, and Yale’s 
slaveholding residential college namesake John C. Calhoun.

But their attempts to move from discourse to public 
action hit a roadblock: how could they turn their idealized 
alternatives into concrete solutions? 
“Can you live out…theory?” Chen asked. The simple 
answer is: probably not. Especially not while at Yale. But 
I can see the appeal of setting vague goals and taking a 
meandering path to meet them.

Thinking about that path, I get a flashback. A grassless 
lawn, a sea of tents, huddled bodies. Occupying. A 2011 
New York Times article described Occupy Wall Street 
as a protest movement with “faulty aim,” a “lack of 
cohesion,” and a “wish to pantomime progressivism rather 
than practice it knowledgably.” And that was a relatively 
tame critique, before the protesters slunk out of their 
encampments and out of the major press.

Both leaders were familiar with Occupy’s well-
documented pitfalls, but Chen says they wondered if they 
could be the ones to get a little closer to closing the gap 
between theory and reality, as students “in a safe space with 
a lot of time.”

And when President Richard Levin announced his 
departure, the presidential search proved to be good for 
a test drive.

Both Y Syn and its friendly competitior SUN 
petitioned for transparency in the process. While Y 
Syn tried to “create its ideal world,” SUN’s approach to 
activism was more “direct,” Alejandro Gutierrez ’13 
said. The group rallied students to speak with the search 
committee at an open forum.

But a forum was a little too formal for Y Syn’s style. 
No wheedling for change—they wanted action. And they 
wanted it to be “playful,” DeWitt said. SUN was angry 
with the university administrators for excluding student 
voices, but Y Syn never expected anything better from 
them in the first place.

In late September, SUN and Y Syn started a petition 
on change.org that received almost four hundred signatures 
from across the community—albeit out of a community 
that includes eleven thousand current students. At the 
open forum on September 28, students expressed their 
grievances to the search committee for over two hours. 
Earlier that day, Y Syn members chalked classrooms in 
Harkness Hall and Linsly-Chittenden Hall with “playful, 
but critical” slogans, to encourage 
the student body to attend the 
meeting, DeWitt said.

In early October, they placed 
empty wooden chairs on Cross 
Campus, Old Campus and Beinecke 
Plaza, with signs taped to them that read “The Empty 
Seat of Student Representation in the Presidential Search 
Committee.” A photo of one of the chairs made it into 
the Yale Daily News’ Cross Campus section. Presumably, 
students passed by the grouping on their way to section 
that Wednesday night. 

This initiative, like other Y Syn public actions, DeWitt 
clarified, was not “endorsed democratically by the Y 
Syndicate assembly.” The organization was founded not 
to strictly organize students in the traditional sense, but 
rather to encourage participation in proactive and reactive 
critiques of the university.

A month after the chairs were placed, the Yale 
Corporation chose Peter Salovey as Yale’s new president.

Famed Yale anarchist James Scott theorizes in his 
1985 work “Weapons of the Weak” that powerless people 
use small rebellious acts to protect their interests against 
institutions trying to extract their labor, goods, money, or 
interest. 

If we zoom in so uncomfortably close that Yale is 
the world and the Corporation is the state, maybe we 
can see Y Syn’s strategies as analogous to those Scott 
describes, which include “foot dragging, dissimulation, 
false compliance, pilfering [and] feigned ignorance.” In the 
right circumstances, resistance by marginalized peoples 
can drastically change the course of the state’s decisions 
and severely undermine oppressive projects.

Without student input, the Corporation may have 
forgone the safe option and “chosen someone more 
imperial,” DeWitt said.

Plus the Syndicate’s existence gave SUN a public 
relations boost, Chen said, preventing either from seeming 
like “some fringe, marginal sort of organization.” 

But Leingang thinks the group’s focus on the 
presidential search was misdirected, especially since many 
were seniors, unlikely to be affected by the university’s 
future president. “Yale faculty, Yale workers, New Haven 
people should be involved. Our opinions don’t really 
matter,” he said.

Ultimately, Y Syndicate may have been the wrong 
vehicle for grassroots activism altogether. 
“Hierarchical institutions are more efficient. We just 
weren’t about efficiency,” DeWitt said.

Realistically, perhaps Y-Syn is just a ragtag band 
of pranksters. I’m sure others could successfully argue 
they’re neither, both, or somewhere in between. Either 
way, they’ve done something, 
mainly whatever they felt like 
doing, whenever they felt like 
doing it. Numbers, structure, 
organizational longevity? Not 
that important.

Over this year, Chen and DeWitt said they’ve seen 
individual acts likely inspired by the Y Syndicate. For 
example, neither was sure exactly who sent out an e-mail 
from President-elect Peter Salovey’s e-mail referring to 
himself as the “President-select,” with the explanation, “It 
seems that my ‘s’ key was malfunctioning.”

And neither knew who had painted event fliers blue 
and pasted them on the bulletin boards on Cross Campus. 
DeWitt suspects it may have been a statement about Yale’s 
controversial plans for a liberal arts college in Singapore.

Gutierrez confirmed that SUN was not responsible 
for either action.

For those seeking to continue the trend of sporadic 
semi-subversive hijinks, Y Syn leaves behind a heaping 
dose of institutional skepticism, a devil-may-care attitude, 
and vague plans for more zines. No one I spoke to knows 
definitively when or whether the group will continue its 
coordinated efforts. Perhaps when the weather is nicer, 
they said.

Can you live out theory?
ALIYYA SWABY is a senior in Pierson College 
and former editor-in-chief of TNJ.



**Title: Solutions to Scale**
**Author: Ashley Dalton**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The Connecticut Mental Health Center rethinks a doubly-marginalized population.


Within the sepia-toned cafeteria of the Connecticut Mental Health Center, Serena Spruill is a vision in dazzling Technicolor. I find her seated in a plastic chair, dressed in a rainbow poncho which only slightly conceals a flashy Obama T-shirt. A fist-sized wooden cross swings from her neck, and a Rastafarian beanie tops her hip-length dreadlocks. In a world beyond the beige rooms of CMHC, Spruill’s size might stand out more than her oufit. She is close to six feet tall and weighs over three hundred pounds.

And she isn’t happy about it. 
“I look at myself, and I realize—what you’re seeing here on the outside doesn’t reflect who I am on the inside.” Spruill motions to the rest of the cafeteria. “Everybody around here sits around like blobs,” she says. “But I’m trying to make my life better. I want to improve my health.”

Spruill’s weight struggles started fifteen years ago, when she was diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia. Her doctor at CMHC started her on an antidepressant and then an antipsychotic. The medication worked—Spruill was happier and stopped hearing voices. But like most medications of its kind, it had one significant side effect: increase in appetite. In her first year of treatment, Spruill gained almost one hundred pounds. Her cholesterol rose and she contracted hypertension and type II diabetes—not uncommon for patients on antipsychotic medicines. Since then, she’s participated in weight loss studies and joined an African dance troupe. She attends bi-weekly exercise classes, and consults a nutritionist. She shops for groceries at health stores and farmer’s markets. But she still hasn’t seen any significant weight loss. 
Spruill resists attributing her obesity to the side effects of her anti-psychotic medication: “If I did what the nutritionist told me to do, I wouldn’t be overweight. But I just eat too many carbs,” she said. “You see, it’s the pills, but it’s also me.”

Because of her weight, Spruill—and sixty percent of seriously mentally ill patients in America—is four times more likely to contract and die of heart disease, and likely to die twenty to twenty-five years earlier than the average American. In the past ten years, CMHC has provided patients with formal weight loss trials, exercise groups, a fully-equipped gym, healthier cafeteria food options, a weekly farmer’s market during the summer, and, most recently, a primary care clinic providing nutritional information—all without any cost to the patients. But somehow, nothing seems to work, not even for highly motivated patients like Spruill.


Before the 1990s, most Americans fell within a normal body mass index (BMI) range of between 18.5 and 24.9, and the mentally ill were a bit thinner than most. Now, over thirty-five percent of Americans adults are obese, and almost sixty percent of the mentally ill are severely obese. What has changed for the mentally ill is in part what has changed for the American population as a whole: now, as never before in human history, foods high in carbs, calories, and fat are cheap and readily available in our country. But the increased accessibility of processed food is not all that has changed for the mentally ill. 
The miracle of anti-psychotic medicines—beginning in 1950, with the introduction of Lithium—which can relieve the symptoms of mental illness, exacerbated the problem. Their appetite-increasing side effects made gaining weight all too easy. Additionally, since many people with severe mental illness struggle to secure education or employment, they are likely to be very poor and, as a result, have limited food options. Psychiatric hospitals suddenly had a major obesity problem on their hands.	
CMHC was one of the first mental health institutions in the United States to try to tackle this problem, through clinical efforts, like weight loss trials, or holistic efforts such as philanthropically-funded farmer’s markets. Their fight against obesity in the mentally ill population began in 2004, when Dr. Cenk Tek, who specializes in schizophrenia, became alarmed about his patients’ weight.

“The first year I was here, two people died of heart disease,” says Tek, “I saw that it is not just a statistic that these patients die early. You are living with them sometimes, you take care of them, you establish a relationship with them… I have some degree of responsibility here.” 	

In response, he developed a weight loss program called SIMPLE (Simplified Intervention to Modify Physical activity, Lifestyle, and Eating), whose structure was comparable to Weight Watchers but with less complex guidelines. During its four-month clinical trial in 2004, SIMPLE taught a group of CMHC patients about the dangers of emotional eating, the benefits of exercise, and how to shop for healthy, affordable foods at the supermarket. But most importantly, SIMPLE emphasized education and weight-monitoring—efforts that have been proven to help patients lose weight. 
They were successful within the terms of the study. On average, participants lost five percent of their body weight, and they kept it off for another six months. But when the monitoring stopped, participants started to gain back the weight. Now, five years later, all the participants are back where they started.

Tek stills keeps up this monitoring, however, in a less formal way. “Everyone who comes into my office gets on the scale,” he insisted, despite my protestations, “Even you.”

This forced confrontation of one’s body size—an experience that was painful for me and is painful for many—is supposed to help people lose weight. But none of Tek’s patients seem to be doing so, and with this in mind, I am wary when Tek says that  SIMPLE will help CMHC patients once it is finally reviewed and certified. If the general American population is any model, my suspicion is warranted. Only 27% of Americans who participate in Weight Watchers, for example, succeed in maintaining their new weight for two years.

Tek still assures me that SIMPLE can work. He explains that his patients have different motives and goals for weight loss, blaming the failure of programs like Weight Watchers on their business model: they primarily target people trying to get beach bodies. Tek is not running a business, or even trying to make his patients thin. He just wants them to be healthy. “I am dealing with very sick people,” he says. 
What really separates SIMPLE from other programs is its idea that people don’t need to be thin, or even a normal weight, to be healthy. They can be somewhat overweight and still prevent hypertension, type II diabetes, and heart disease—if they’re living a healthy lifestyle. People who start walking around the block and buying canned veggies at the grocery store can prevent the onset of many fatal health problems. 
It sounds easy—so why is it so hard? Perhaps because I am not the only person who sees more than a number when they get on Tek’s scale.


Most health care institutions have invested in Tek’s methods, including the new Wellness Center within CMHC. The Wellness Center is a subsidiary of Cornell Scott Hill-Health Center, Connecticut’s oldest and largest community health center, and it provides free primary health care to all CMHC patients.

The only marker of this recently opened and long-anticipated office is a small printed sign taped to a light wooden door; I almost missed it among the many bulletin boards. For now, it is empty: the Wellness Center only opened a week ago, and most patients don’t yet know it exists. But doctors assure me that once the word does get around, the Wellness Center will play a vital role in helping CMHC patients lose weight. It will monitor the weight of every patient who comes in, a requirement of the federal grant that allows the Wellness Center to exist. Additionally, nurses will educate patients on healthy lifestyle choices and the effects of their obesity-related diseases.

John Brenner, the primary nurse practitioner at CMHC’s new Wellness Center, has worked at other primary health care clinics in the past, and attests to the value of regular weight monitoring and education over the long term. He says that at clinics, he explains the issue of obesity and the complications of hypertension and diabetes to patients some thirty times a day. They are very receptive to this education, he says. “A patient will walk out saying, ‘Wow, I finally get this. Thank you, no one has ever explained that to me before.’ And even if that level of understanding is very low, it’s better than where they were before.”  

Brenner reports that at the other Cornell Scott Hill-Health Center clinics, the numbers suggest that weight monitoring and education are effective. “If this population is similar to other populations Cornell Scott Hill-Health Center has been treating, then this center should help people with weight—even if in just a small way,” he told me matter-of-factly. 
His claims will be tested in the next few years—if CMHC can build up enough patient volume to keep the Wellness Center alive after the federal grant money runs out. The hospital hopes that if it can attract enough patients, and enroll more of them in Medicaid and Medicare, the Wellness Center will be sustainable. But first they’ll need to get enough patient volume to fill up all the appointment slots.



**Title: The CMHC Farmers’ Market**
**Author: Ashley Dalton**
**Page number(s): 19-20**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The dirty parking lot of CMHC hardly seems like 
the ideal location for a Friday farmers’ market. But 
for the past three years, from July through September, 
the CMHC parking lot has been filled with white tents 
selling farmers’ fresh-off-the-vine bulging eggplant, an 
explosion of kale and lettuce, and the still-wafting smell 
of this morning’s fresh-baked bread. As it turns out, 
the parking lot is actually the ideal place for a farmers’ 
market, for a number of reasons.


The market makes financial sense for the hospital 
administrators. The cost is minimal—City Seed, a New 
Haven nonprofit, sets up the farmer’s market in the 
CMHC parking lot without hospital funds. Additionally, 
for the Connecticut Mental Health Center Foundation—
the nonprofit that provides supplemental, donated 
funding to CMHC—the farmers’ market is actually a 
moneymaking venture. Donors love everything about 
the farmers’ market—it’s environmentally friendly, it’s 
beautiful, and, as of late, it’s trendy. Since setting up 
the farmer’s market three years ago, the foundation 
has actually seen an increase in donations. They 
attribute this to their strategy of donor outreach, which 
highlights efforts to promote a “wellness” culture in 
the hospital—a holistic approach to health that doesn’t 
focus on weight loss but rather on the individual as a 
part of a community.


It all sounds very nice, especially when you throw in 
the live musicians every week and guest-star appearances 
from a bike repairman, patients selling crafts, and—most 
memorably—an equine therapist. The farmers’ market’s 
possible impact on the community is a large selling point 
to donors also. The idea is not just to change the food 
culture at CMHC, but in the Hill as a whole.


Normally, it would be hard for patients and the 
surrounding community to afford to shop at a farmers’ 
market. But City Seed has introduced a program to accept 
food stamps for double their stated value at the market, 
and the CMHC foundation funds the distribution of 
coupons to CMHC patients, which gets them additional 
produce for free.


According to patients, this financial inclusivity 
created a unique social environment. “You get to interact 
with the higher-ups, the doctors, the administrators,” 
Spruill said. “You don’t normally get to do that.”


These social interactions are not just selling points 
for donors, however. They have real clinical benefits. 
“Keeping people coming to their appointments is a 
tremendous problem for us,” says Dr. Michael Sernyak, 
CMHC’s director. With the arrival of the farmer’s 
market, patients started keeping their appointments in 
order to get coupons. Clinicians even began to see better 
appointment attendance on Friday mornings, compared 
to the rest of the week.


Doctors and nurses at CMHC all agree that the 
farmers’ market is the beginning of something good. 
Photo by Elif Erez


“If weight loss is your outcome of interest, a lot of 
people are going to be very disappointed. Most people 
won’t succeed,” Sernayk said. “We want to avoid that 
disappointment. We want to start engineering success to 
begin with. If we focus instead on walking a little more 
or eating better, people might start to lose weight.” But 
that’s a big “might.”


At this point, there have been no success stories 
among CMHC patients.  In fact, the only person to lose 
significant weight at CMHC has been its director—and 
Sernyak didn’t lose weight by just walking around the 
block. 


When he came to the hospital three years ago, 
Sernyak was on the brink of obesity. “I weighed in at 226 
pounds. I’m a physician, so I know how this story ends. 
I don’t want to be in the best shape of my life after I’ve 
had my first heart attack.” He started counting calories 
on his iPhone, buying more fruits and vegetables, eating 
breakfast, and exercising—a lot. He often spent an hour 
and a half on the Stairmaster every day. In eight months, 
he lost over sixty pounds. To keep up his new body, 
Sernyak bikes a few hundred miles a week. He also keeps 
a treadmill in his office, so he can walk while working. 


Sernyak does realize that his method wouldn’t 
work for many of his patients. “If I’m a single parent 
with a kid, I can’t disappear for five hours on a bicycle 
ride. And because I have enough money, I can eat really 
good food that’s good for me.” Losing weight is just 
plain hard, even with all his advantages, he says. Despite 
these caveats, Sernak remains confident that eventually, 
a patient will overcome the challenges of losing weight.


“There will be one or two people who succeed, and 
you never know who that’s going to be. The changes 
for most people may not be dramatic, but small weight 
changes can make a big difference in peoples’ lives.”


For Spruill, healthy eating and exercise are spiritual 
practices. She wants to be healthy and alive for as 
long as possible, so that she can fulfill what she sees as 
her mission to help those around her.


“It’s part of my spiritual involvement to go into 
somebody’s life, affect them in a positive way, and then 
move on,” she says, fiddling with the cross on her neck. 
“It’s like the ripple effect.”


Between Spruill’s strong sense of motivation 
and the aid of CMHC, she is set up for success, but 
something is standing between her and what she wants. 
“I grew up very poor,” Spruill explains. “We would 
usually eat one or two meals a day. I didn’t even know 
what lunch was.” She and her twelve siblings ate healthy 
things—beans and rice and oatmeal, and even vegetables 
from the garden before Spruill’s family moved from 
North Carolina to the Northeast. But they ate lots of it. 
Enough to be very full, especially since sometimes they 
would have to go two or three days without food.


“That’s why I can’t stand to be hungry,” she 
said. “I can’t stand that gnawing feeling still, and that 
goes way back to when I was a kid, dealing with hunger 
as a child.”


People’s relationships with their bodies run 
deeper than what numbers can convey. Even though 
Spruill has a lot of support and aid—regular visits to a 
nutritionist, money to buy healthy food, and a moderate 
exercise regimen—her past remains with her. 


For now, the hospital’s obesity problem remains 
more or less the same as it has been since clozapine 
came on the market in 1990.


“Things are changing, it’s coming,” Spruill said. But 
whether or not her optimism will ultimately lead to the 
numbers going down at CMHC—on the scale in the 
wellness center, or in the nearby emergency room—
remains to be seen.
TNJ
ASHLEY DALTON is a sophomore in 
Ezra Stiles College. She is a staff writer at TNJ.


**Title: Of All the Gin Joints in this Town**
**Author: Kathryn Osborn**
**Page number(s): 21**

When David Ottenstein first photographed Richter’s Café in 1982, it was called the Taft Tap Room and its interior had spent 
the past decade boarded up, not to mention the past year filled with trash and construction debris from The Taft Hotel’s 1981 
conversion into apartments. Still, its future felt more optimistic to Ottenstein, who photographs disintegrating, empty structures.  
An abandoned Connecticut factory where pipes and broken glass are doubled in rain puddles, an Iowa farmhouse whose single armchair 
rots amid ankle-high rubble and paint chips. These are spaces, as Ottenstein puts it, “wonderful in [their] state of decay.” They elicit fictions 
of what might have once filled their walls. 


History sprouted from the floor-to-ceiling oak paneled walls of Richter’s in the form of hand-carved flowers, and names were 
scratched into the mahogany bar—New Haven’s oldest, built in 1858. Richter Elser ’81 had returned to New Haven on a whim to help 
coach the freshman lightweight crew team and just signed a 25-year lease on the space. In January1983, Ottenstein would photograph the 
opening of Richter’s Café, and through his lens the interior’s decades of history would fade dark and give way to big hair, aviator eyeglasses, 
and a community.


Despite Richter’s closing in 2011, traces of its heyday remain—a portrait of Elser’s grandfather; a taxidermy moose head, shot by 
Elser’s grandfather in 1908, mounted above the dining room mantle. With Caseus Owner Jason Sobocinski and Mike Farber of Hamden’s 
MIKro Beer Bar reopening the Tap Room this month with the name Ordinary—a nod to the town ordinary, or tavern, that occupied the 
corner of College and Chapel back in 1659—these artifacts will join the decades of New Haven history the Tap Room proudly wears. But 
these relics beg more than a question of the past and the fictions we might stir from it. They beg a question of the future, in which we 
might too represent little more than a historical moment. How will New Haven fill these walls next? 
Introduced by Kathryn Osborn
Photos by David Ottenstein 
KATHRYN OSBORN is a sophomore in Branford College. 



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 22**

Extract ARTICLE CONTENT:
The New Journal


**Page number(s): 23**

April 2013


**Page number(s): 24**



**Title: Courtside Collisions**
**Author: Benjamin Mueller**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Osuman Imoro’s opponent was examining the 
blood streaking down his left elbow when 
Osuman stepped into the right-hand server’s 
box of the squash court and struck a loping serve. In 
the third game of this best-of-three match, Osuman, 
14, was spent, his skinny chest pulsing with heavy 
breaths he would prefer you didn’t notice. Restless and 
self-effacing by nature, Osuman asserted himself on 
the court, searching his opponent’s wearied steps for 
a lapse and responding with returns as graceful as they 
were unforgiving. Osuman’s earlier shot, a low, lining 
dagger driven inches off the floor, had drawn blood; his 
competitor, Mason Corbett, skinned his elbow diving 
onto the wooden floor after it. Now Osuman rushed 
to line up the next point before 
Mason could recover. Mason 
reached backwards for the return, 
and they rallied for a bit until 
Osuman suddenly caught a lazy 
ball on his racquet. He thrashed 
it off the court’s side wall at such 
an angle that it ricocheted into 
the front wall, and then towards 
the back left corner of the court. 
Mason, whose riskless shots were 
a lawyer’s answer to Osuman’s 
frenetic flow, pursued it with 
labored steps, but the ball beat 
him and now he was heading 
towards the wall too quickly to 
pull up. Mason crumpled into the 
corner, on the floor for the second time, while Osuman 
leapt in anticipation of a return into the court’s center, a 
place that equals power in a sport that prizes positioning.


For much of that December morning, Osuman 
and his team, Squash Haven, looked out of place in 
the Kneisel Squash Center at Hopkins School, an elite 
New Haven preparatory school. Squash teams from 
private high schools warmed up on five of the center’s 
six glass-walled courts, their players sporting wavy 
hair and bright bandanas. A team from a school called 
Kingswood-Oxford, wearing dragon-themed uniforms, 
completed drills on a court named for David Swensen, a 
Hopkins graduate and Yale’s Chief Investment Officer. 
An elegantly outfitted mother toting coffee in one hand 
and a copy of the New York Times in the other arrived 
to hand her son two new squash racquets wrapped in 
plastic.


Gathered in their own four-walled court were four 
black and three Hispanic boys from Squash Haven, a 
program that teaches select low-income students from 
New Haven public schools how to play squash. Their 
sweatshirts didn’t have brand names. Instead of drills, 
they practiced trick shots. Later, with the team on its 
way to a third place finish, one Squash Haven student 
studied the tournament’s “ladder,” or rankings list, with 
a green afro pick. From a distance, he seemed to be 
rearranging the tournament’s hierarchy.


As Mason and Osuman began their match, one 
of Mason’s Kingswood-Oxford teammates seemed to 
echo the thoughts of many in the room when he asked 
about Osuman, “Do you know who that kid is?” In 
a sport confined in America largely to white, wealthy 
Northeasterners, Squash Haven’s poor black and 
Hispanic players are outsiders. Like a growing number 
of 
urban 
squash 
programs 
nationwide, Squash Haven counts 
on the sport’s association with 
money and prestige to connect 
its students to elite colleges and 
high-paying jobs. But old barriers 
are slow to come down. Does the 
collision between squash clubs 
and public housing—between 
Mason, who took daily summer 
lessons at the Hartford Golf Club, 
and Osuman, whose Ghanaian 
parents have never seen him 
play—really make opportunities 
multiply?


As we watched Osuman, 
Derek Lawrence, a fifteen-year-
old Squash Haven player, told 
me that members of the squash community expect him 
to be on a basketball court. “It feels good to puzzle 
them a little bit.” In the match’s pivotal third game, 
Osuman was puzzling them. Squash, a sport in which 
two bodies jostle for position in a tight, four-walled 
space, rewards players who capture the court’s center, 
and penalizes those who unfairly manipulate the court 
space. If one player interferes with the other’s path to 
the ball, it’s called a let, and the point is replayed. If one 
player interferes with the other’s direct swing on the 
ball, it’s called a stroke, and the person whose shot was 
blocked wins a point. Osuman lorded over the court’s 
center, striking winners that hit three walls before they 
landed at Mason’s tired feet. Mason searched for a 
reassuring nod from his parents and coaches. Osuman, 
who doesn’t let his parents attend matches because they 
make him nervous, kept his eyes locked on the game’s


Opposite page: photo by Caroline Lester


Does the collision between 
squash clubs and public 
housing – between Mason, 
who took daily summer 
lessons at the Hartford Golf  
Club, and Osuman, whose 
Ghanaian parents have never 
seen him play – really make 
opportunities multiply?
Osuman Imoro, 14, looks on as Joby Davis, 15, slices a back­
hand at Yale’s Brady Squash Center.



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
28
The New Journal
action. His slim, lithe body darted around the court with 
less grace but more exuberance than his opponent’s. On 
match point, Osuman flicked an unexpected shot into 
the court’s left corner. Mason retrieved it, but stumbled 
back to the center of the court late, and found himself 
in the path of the approaching ball. Osuman wound 
up to swing, then suddenly had to pull back to avoid 
hitting Mason. It was a stroke. Match point to Osuman. 
In a building built with the money of Greg Kneisel, a 
Goldman Sachs executive, on a court whose glass walls 
wished its occupants happiness and good fortune in 
Latin (“QUOD FELIX FAUSTUMQUE SIT”), the boy 
out of a Hartford golf club was disqualified for getting 
in the way of an inner-city boy from Ghana.	 	


T
he program that brought Osuman to Hopkins on 
that December afternoon, Squash Haven, offers 
after-school tutoring and squash instruction to seventy-
nine fourth to eleventh graders from New Haven. The 
students, mostly black and Hispanic and evenly split 
between boys and girls, gather every afternoon with 
a group of coaches and tutors to train in squash, get 
help on their homework, and try more advanced reading 
and writing exercises. In the short term, the program 
promises athletic and academic enrichment. In the long 
term, it reaches for more ambitious targets: admission 
for its students to boarding schools and elite universities, 
and access to rungs of the socioeconomic ladder that 
might otherwise seem out of reach.

This unusual education takes place at Payne 
Whitney Gymnasium, Yale’s nine-story Gothic cathedral 
to athletic extravagance. The gym features 21,000 square 
feet of workout space, two large swimming pools, 
and Squash Haven’s office—a converted closet space, 
now painted in shining green. Squash Haven students 
practice in the seven million dollar Brady Squash Center, 
one of the world’s preeminent squash facilities, whose 
fifteen courts include the only exhibition court in the 
U.S. with four glass walls. The Squash Haven team 
meets in a room tucked at the end of a long hallway in 
the Brady Center that doubles as the U.S. Squash Hall 
of Fame. Students work on poetry assignments in a 
carpeted trophy room displaying worn footballs from 
1902 and a statue of a discus thrower. One afternoon, I 
found fourth-graders sitting on the edge of the room’s 
stately leather chairs as they snacked on clementines and 
prepared for a vocabulary bee. 

Julie Greenwood, Squash Haven’s executive director, 
explained that the program’s goal is to give students 
access to elite schools and squash tournaments from 
which they’ve traditionally been excluded, and to help 
them develop tools to succeed there. If students raise 
their grades and get good at squash, the thinking goes, 
they might join a squash team at a prestigious university. 
At the very least, they’ll build the skills to expand their 
worlds beyond struggling public schools and desperate 
city streets.

Yet squash seemed to be a sport that protected a 
thin slice of wealthy, white, privilege from lower classes. 
Codes of clothing and manners insulated private school 
families from plucky outsiders. Non-marking squash 
shoes, two racquets, and a pair of goggles total $390. 
Access to a squash court alone costs around $3,060, 
the yearly price of membership at the New Haven 
Lawn Club. The most ambitious training programs 
offer lessons from top pros, summer training camps in 
Europe and Asia, and help navigating college squash 
recruitment at yearly costs of between $25,000 and 
$40,000. Is this really the right backdrop against which 
to be teaching kids from New Haven how to raise their 
grades, transcend broken homes, and trust people?

Paul Assaiante, head coach of the perpetually top-
ranked Trinity College squash team, had similar concerns 
when urban squash programs like Squash Haven were 
first developing. Assaiante grew up in a poor community 
in the Bronx, and knew from experience how strange 
and inaccessible squash seemed from the outside. “Why 
would you choose squash?” he asked of these programs. 
“When the students’ time is done—let’s say they don’t 
get into college—they would never join a private club or 
see squash again. Squash seemed like an unlikely partner. 
Why not basketball or soccer?”

Assaiante’s concern, it seemed, was twofold. 
Building a bridge from New Haven public schools 
to Payne Whitney was a project with extraordinary 
possibility. But it also threatened to leave students whose 
futures didn’t include squash or college feeling like a 
rug had been pulled out from under them. Assaiante 
also worried that urban squash programs had doomed 
their messages of learning and self-improvement by 
connecting them to a sport to which its students would 
likely lose access after high school. Tutoring and support 
programs everywhere struggle with the need to make 
their lessons applicable across environments. Why risk 
further marginalizing those lessons by attaching them to 
a context as foreign as squash?

Osuman may have been an equal of his private 
school opponents on the court, but he was still treated 
differently on the sidelines. After his win, his opponent 
Mason walked over to the area where Squash Haven 
players had gathered, waiting to congratulate Osuman. 
Weary-eyed and embarrassed, he leaned towards 
someone in the group and muttered, “Nice game, man.” 
But Osuman was not in the group. The black kid Mason 


--- Page 29 ---

29
April 2013
congratulated, Moubarak Ouro-Aguy, was not the black 
kid with whom Mason had spent thirty minutes on the 
court. “I think he can’t see after this game or something,” 
Moubarak joked later—but not lightly.


I
f the squash community’s obvious privilege can 
sometimes clash with New Haven students’ more 
immediate needs, the unfamiliarity of its surroundings 
also seems to help students imagine themselves anew. 
Moubarak’s sister, Rafi Ouro-Aguy, 16, arrived in 
America from Togo five years ago with her dad, sister, 
and two brothers. Last year her dad lost his job at a 
gas station after back surgery, and the family makes do 
without a car or phone. When I asked Rafi what made 
her want to play squash, she remembered the first time 
she saw Moubarak at Squash Haven. “I saw him on the 
court and I was like, ‘Who is this? 
I don’t even recognize him,’” she 
said. “That’s what I like about 
squash. When you’re playing 
squash, you’re a different person.” 
Where I saw an imposing class 
divide, Rafi recognized a blank 
slate. Squash offered her hope 
in part because it existed so far 
outside the typical boundaries of 
her experience. “You don’t get the 
feeling of the player transforming 
into another person with other 
sports,” she told me.

Moubarak looked different 
to Rafi in part because of the squash court’s bright lights 
and glossy walls. But the sport’s emotional landscape, 
just as foreign as its physical, contributed to Moubarak’s 
transformation. As Rafi tells it,  “My brother was a 
pretty quiet person. But here, everyone was cheering for 
him and I was like, ‘Oh my god. That’s so much love he’s 
getting. I want some of that.’” Rafi said nowhere else 
at school or in her community could she count on that 
kind of support.

Rafi recognized that squash was a game mostly 
populated by white people, but said it wasn’t a new 
experience to feel excluded. What mattered was whether 
or not she was given a chance to correct the imbalance. 
“Squash is squash,” she explained. “It’s not a different 
game for different colors.” 

Despite its barriers, it’s a game that can give the 
strong-willed a shot at unseating squash nobility. On 
March 15, the Brady Squash Center hosted the U.S. 
Junior National Championships for the top thirty-two 
players in each age group. Malaysian, South African, and 
Egyptian pros counseled their pupils and recruited new 
clients. Scouts from Brown and Princeton strolled the 
hallways; Yale’s coach made a girl’s nervous face glow 
when he told her he’d liked watching her play. This 
wasn’t a tournament for the merely proficient. This 
was where the upper crust came to get crowned. And 
Osuman Imoro was not only participating—he was also 
being honored as the under-15 most improved player for 
his explosive rise from no. 231 to no. 23 in the national 
rankings. “It feels like I’m proving myself,” he told me.

Osuman lost quickly in the tournament’s first 
round, but continued to the consolation bracket the 
next day, where he faced Ryan Murray, the sixth-ranked 
fourteen-year-old. The thought of Ryan’s older brother, 
a dominant Harvard squash recruit, worried John 
DeWitt, Squash Haven’s coach. “Osuman’s never played 
a kid like this,” he said before the match. Sure enough, 
Osuman couldn’t get a shot past 
his fitter opponent, faltering at 
the end of long rallies. Osuman 
lost the first game, 11-4.

Down 6-8 in the second 
game of the best-of-five match, 
Osuman slipped pursuing a drop 
shot, then unexpectedly rose and 
hit a cruel cross-court winner on 
his next shot. Suddenly Osuman 
became the aggressor. He rushed 
to line up serves and hit winners 
even as he stumbled. He fought 
to a 16-14 win, and won the 
next game 11-7. Ryan looked 
perturbed. Osuman, perpetually mismatched in yellow 
Asics shoes, blue shorts, and a black shirt, wore an 
expression of quiet resolve; when I asked him later what 
had been going through his mind, he said only that he 
“was trying not to think too much.” In the last game, 
Osuman shouted proudly as he surged to a 7-4 lead. He 
didn’t allow his opponent another point, winning 11-4.

After the match, Ryan left the court, leaned his 
hand against a wall, and started to cry. His coach patted 
him on the cheek, and soon his mom and sister joined. 
Osuman’s supporters were almost as shocked. “I can’t 
believe he beat that kid,” DeWitt said to no one in 
particular. Forgetting his usual reticence, he continued 
emphatically: “That was real. That was real.”	 	


O
suman’s wasn’t just a feel-good win. It was a signal 
that he could compete with anybody. Christi 
Elligers, a firm, freckled woman who serves as Squash 
Haven’s academic director, told me those wins teach 
students not to assent to a power structure that ranks 
people by inherited wealth and privilege. “I’m bringing 

I saw him on the court and I 
was like, “Who is this? I don’t 
even recognize him.” That’s 
what I like about squash. 
When you’re playing squash, 
you’re a different person.


--- Page 30 ---

30
something to the table and I’m going to be able to beat 
your ass,” she imagined her students thinking. Elligers 
was raised in a working-class home by a single mother 
and had never heard of squash before she joined Squash 
Haven. “A kid like Osuman walks in with his head high 
because he can. They might have a monetary advantage 
on him, but they got nothing when they step on the 
court.”

Squash Haven students are also making strides off 
the court. Eighty-three percent of the program’s high 
school students have reached the New Haven Promise 
scholarship’s benchmarks—a B average, forty hours of 
community service, and ninety percent attendance— 
guaranteeing them at least partial funding for college; 
only ten percent of students city-wide meet those 
marks. Six team members were admitted to private day 
and boarding schools on scholarships and with Squash 
Haven financial support; four are on the honor roll. 
One of those students, Ashley Sanchez, 15, started her 
freshman year at Westover, an all-girls boarding school 
in Middlebury, feeling homesick and unprepared. “It 
was like a new world.” She worried what her squash 
teammates thought of her; they’d all gone to private 
schools before and didn’t struggle in classes like she did. 
But during the transition, Ashley said Squash Haven was 
“like a second home.” Greenwood and Elligers took her 
out for dinner on an unannounced visit and told her she 
needed to get her act together. Ashley has raised her 
grades and was recently elected a “Spirithead,” or leader 
of the school’s spirit week.

Elligers said simply welcoming students to Yale can 
lend affirmation to their more quotidian achievements. 
Just like beating an elite squash player encodes bigger, 
hidden victories than the squash win alone, hanging 
‘A’ exams on the wall of a classroom in Payne Whitney 
carries more significance than an exam posted at another 
after-school program. It’s a stamp of recognition from 
an institution that might otherwise be seen as off-limits. 
Elligers said, “We’re building kids who aren’t afraid of 
the world.”

Y
ale’s temple to athletic excess is hardly the most 
unfamiliar place Squash Haven students spend time. 
They frequently stay overnight at the homes of Squash 
Haven supporters during out-of-town tournaments. 
Maryellen Feeley, a Squash Haven board member from 
Greenwich, took players on their first boat rides on the 
Long Island Sound when they visited her home. “They 
end up in towns that they didn’t know existed, seeing 
houses of a size they didn’t know existed,” Elligers told 
me. “They say Green-wich.”

Bringing New Haven students to visit elegant 
mansions can seem an unlikely learning experience. 
Elligers said Squash Haven staff is aware that the trips 
might look to students like implicit arguments for fancy 
cars and two-parent homes. “The danger of the model 
is that there’s a huge disparity between the served and 
the servers.” Students might idolize the lifestyles they 
observe, forgetting that traditional family structures and 
upper-class consumption habits don’t need to be part of 
their future plans. Greenwood recognized the hazards 
of combining Squash Haven’s lessons with exposure to 
upper-class settings. “I hope the message that our kids 
get is not that this needs to be my world, but more that 
I am getting the skills to choose where I want to build 
my life.”

Carlos Briones, 11, realized his homestay family 
living near Wesleyan was rich when he went into the 
home’s garage. “They had mad Nerf guns. Buckets 
of ammo.” When I asked him if his visit taught him 
anything, he parroted the simplified version of Squash 
Haven’s mission—“If I work hard and study, I can one 
day be like them”—but offered a sweeter vision of what 
“like them” might mean: “I could buy the people around 
me nice stuff.”

Kingsley Amoako, 17, was part of the Bronx urban 
squash program City Squash before entering Canterbury 
School, a private boarding school in Connecticut where 
he is the top-ranked singles player. He stayed overnight 
with City Squash supporters during a recent tournament 
at Wesleyan and was stunned by his luck: the father 
was an alumnus of St. Lawrence, the school to which 
Kingsley was in the process of applying, and also worked 
at Goldman Sachs. He told Kingsley, who hopes to work 
on Wall Street, that he would help him get an internship 
at the firm if he got into St. Lawrence.

Greenwood is a toned, sprightly woman who traded 
her job as head squash coach at Williams College to lead 
Squash Haven. She explained: “The opportunities that I 
know about as someone who went to a good liberal arts 
college and grew up in a nice suburb are far different 
than the opportunities that our kids and families are 
able to access.” But connections alone don’t bridge 
the gap. Some Squash Haven students’ families can’t 
speak English and don’t have Internet access or a car. 
“Access is not simply about telling someone, ‘Here’s 
an opportunity. Okay, go for it,’” Greenwood said. She 
works to anticipate the points at which families might 
lose out on opportunities because of circumstantial 
barriers. Then Greenwood and her staff guide families 
through them, helping students access applications and 
taking them on school visits for interviews.

The least visible barriers can be the most disruptive. 
Greenwood cited “the cultural capital in knowing what 



**Title: Squash Haven**
**Author: Benjamin Mueller**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
April 2013
kind of questions to ask on a school tour, the cultural 
differences in how kids are socialized to advocate for 
themselves and ask questions of authority,” as factors 
that silently undermine underprivileged families. Squash 
Haven teachers aren’t shy about pressing upon their 
students manners that serve as indicators of social and 
educational status to the outside world. Students were 
eager to look me in the eye and introduce themselves 
formally when we spoke. That’s because the program 
asks them to shake the hand of and make eye contact 
with every Yale student volunteer they encounter.


Squash’s seemingly stale rules seem to cultivate a 
kind of respectful comportment. Players are expected 
to incriminate themselves if they commit a violation on 
court, like hitting a ball on a double bounce. They also stay 
at their court after they compete to serve as referees for 
the next match, calling violations like lets and strokes for 
their peers. Jon Zonis, a lawyer and squash player whose 
family organizes yearly Squash Haven fundraisers, said 
the sport’s demands on poise and fitness teach players to 
find resolve in moments of vulnerability. “It’s so much 
about staying level and staying calm. Being confined 
in that little box with people behind the glass looking 
at you and being the master of your own destiny—it 
teaches you about being on your own.”


Like youth squash, American collegiate squash was 
once exclusively the domain of white, wealthy 
families. But it has a different face today. Many of the 
top teams’ rosters are made up of athletes from Asia and 
the Middle East, where squash is played at a higher level 
in part because it’s popular among the middle and lower 
classes. Paul Assaiante, whose dominant Trinity College 
roster often doesn’t feature a single American, said the 
rise in overseas recruiting upset Greenwich families that 
invested a lot in squash. “It created a bit of a kerfuffle,” 
he said. “‘Why is Johnny being denied the number one 
spot because you’re opening the door to a kid from 
Malaysia?’”


Urban squash programs are responsible for a similar 
demographic revolution in youth squash. Assaiante calls 
the advent of urban squash “by far the greatest change 
in the world of U.S. squash in the last ten years.” He said 
that just as American tennis has improved as the sport 
spread to black athletes, urban squash promises to make 
the U.S. more competitive internationally. “Some of 
these urban squash kids are brilliant athletes.” After the 
Junior Championships, Osuman became the country’s 
no. 21-ranked under-fifteen player. Many urban squash 
players who go to boarding schools, like Kingsley, are 
quickly recognized as the best players on their teams.


But just as Assaiante’s stars endured taunts for 
taking spots on teams from Americans, Squash Haven 
players sometimes absorb insults at junior tournaments. 
Greenwood told me about a time last year when some 
of her students had “a hugely nasty experience” at 
a tournament at Wesleyan. As usual, players were 
refereeing their peers’ matches. In this match, a Squash 
Haven player had seemed to interfere with his opponent, 
but the Squash Haven student who was refereeing chose 
not to call the play a let. Parents from an opposing team 
exploded. Greenwood said they didn’t seem angry about 
a simple missed call. The parents seemed angry that an 
outsider to their sport had gotten in their kid’s way. One 
parent followed a Squash Haven player out of the center 
and verbally assaulted at him in a hallway. Another wrote 
to the tournament director that she would never again 
let her children play in a tournament with Squash Haven 
kids.


Elligers said her students are familiar with barriers 
to opportunity in a city with obvious class divides. 
“They’re hit with failing public schools and Yale in the 
same place. They see it. They know it.” She said Squash 
Haven staff members, all of 
whom are white, don’t hesitate 
to discuss issues of unequal 
opportunity on which students 
might otherwise be silent. The 
program’s six high school juniors, 
the first Squash Haven class to 
be preparing college applications, 
recently handed Elligers report 
cards showing grades as low as 
Cs and an F. Alarmed and upset, 
she put aside Shakespeare’s Much 
Ado About Nothing, the topic of that day’s lesson, and 
opened up a Fiske Guide to Colleges. She showed them 
that their grades weren’t yet within range for their dream 
schools. Then she asked her students to picture their 
high school civics class. Six out of the class’s twenty 
students wouldn’t graduate, based on statistics for New 
Haven public high schools. Of those who graduated 
and enrolled in college, one in five would finish within 
six years. The rates were lower for blacks and Hispanic 
students. That left three future college graduates in the 
twenty-person civics class. “I don’t know about you all, 
but it’s gonna be me,” one student quipped, but the 
harsh message had sunk in. Students couldn’t afford 
to get complacent. They had two semesters left to beat 
long odds that even eight years of enrichment classes 
couldn’t fully wipe clean.


Seneca Cox-Uhlan, a short, thick-bodied eleven-
year-old who is Squash Haven’s only white student, 
told me one day after his academic session that there 
was something I needed to put in my magazine. It 
was something he had never before told anyone about 
Squash Haven. “Teachers at school are paid to be nice to 
students,” he confided. “Here, they’re not paid. They’re 
just plain nice.”


Squash Haven’s teachers, of course, are paid, but 
it’s revealing of their unconventional methods that their 
students aren’t always sure. Elligers said, “We’re all up 
in there. We’re in there with their family stuff and we’re 
in there with school stuff, grade stuff, money stuff, sex 
stuff.” Staff members give kids rides home and estimate 
that they answer thirty texts a day from students. They 
know whose younger brother has a fever and whose 
mom works the night shift. They hear when family 
relationships turn sour and are helping one student’s dad 
find a job. When a ninth grader quit Squash Haven and 
later got pregnant, Elligers, Greenwood, and DeWitt 
visited her at the hospital every day. Elligers later went to 
her home a few times a week to help her change diapers 
and do enrichment homework assignments.


The staff’s immersion is 
not only necessary to smooth 
over everyday challenges for 
kids of limited means. It’s also 
an essential part of the social 
contract for a program promising 
to build a bridge from the projects 
to 
Payne 
Whitney. 
Squash 
Haven challenges students’ low 
expectations, expectations that 
serve as defenses against past and 
future failed promises. In their 
place, Squash Haven plants the idea that with its help, 
students can go as far as they’d like to: up the squash 
rankings and into Yale’s glossy halls. If Squash Haven’s 
promise to tear down barriers turns out to be an illusion, 
the disappointment can be lasting. Kids go back home 
having tasted life on the other side, more convinced than 
ever that they’ll never be allowed in. Squash Haven is “all 
up in there” because fighting systematized prejudices 
requires nothing less.


When I first asked Osuman if I could visit him at 
his home, he said no, explaining with a shrug that 
his dad worked late. Osuman seemed to want to keep 
his home life, which he said could get noisy with seven 
siblings, separate from his life on the squash courts. He 
later complained about a New Haven Register reporter 
who had called him for a recent article and expected him 
to open up right away. “I wasn’t ready for that,” he said. 
“People I don’t see too much of I don’t feel comfortable 
with. I was about to play squash and they just called me.”


After two or three tries, Osuman finally relented 
and told me I could visit. On a chilly December evening, 
I walked to his home on Goffe Street, just three blocks 
from Payne Whitney Gym. It stunned me that I’d 
considered calling a cab. Only three blocks separated 
the U.S. Squash Hall of Fame from a dark road with 
boarded storefronts.


Osuman’s dad, Yousef Imoro, greeted me at the 
door as five tiny children between the ages of eight 
months and six years gathered at his feet. Osuman was 
staying late at squash practice, like usual, but Imoro 
welcomed me. His small row house was barren of stuff 
and filled with people. Osuman’s siblings climbed over 
the couch and onto Imoro’s arms as we spoke. Imoro 
emigrated from Ghana twenty-one years ago. Five years 
ago, his wife and Osuman joined him in New Haven. 
Imoro now works sixteen-hour days at a Toyota body 
shop, and his hands were thick and worn. He seemed 
animated by the same barely-contained ebullience as his 
son.


Imoro recounted an evening a week earlier when 
he heard Osuman rip open a letter and start screaming 
in the kitchen. “Na Gode Allah!” Osuman had yelled, 
‘thank you God’ in Hausa, the family’s native Ghanaian 
language. “Na Gode Allah!” When Imoro came 
downstairs, Osuman told him that he’d earned a spot 
at an upcoming tournament in Boston. “I hope he will 
do well,” Imoro said. “That’s my prayer. I know he will 
do well.”


Imoro told me he brought his family to America 
because their opportunities in Ghana were limited. 
“I want my children to go ahead more than me,” he 
explained. “Because I didn’t get the chance.” He said he 
hoped one day Osuman “might become one of the best 
stars, a Yale star. That’s something we wish. And maybe 
we all achieve the dream.”


I asked Imoro what sort of dream Squash Haven 
represents to him. His two-year-old daughter Adiza was 
sneezing into his arms. “It’s like right now I was sitting 
some place and somebody just came and said, ‘Well this 
is two million dollars. Take it and use it for something.’ 
That’s what Squash Haven represents.” He continued: “I 
thank God for that. I thank the coaches and thank all of 
you for your hard work.”


“I didn’t do anything,” I laughed in protest, figuring 
that he had mistaken me for one of the Yale volunteers 
who helped out.


“Yeah, but at least you walk and come to my 
house, he said excitedly, his voice rising, now practically 
booming through his hollow house. He insisted: “It’s 
something. It means a big thing.”


Imoro’s son, five years off the plane from Ghana, 
was twenty boys away from being the best squash player 
in America at his age. He harbored dreams of going pro 
in the country clubs’ sport; if not, Elligers was already 
plotting his college admissions strategy. In the unlikely 
collision between white, wealthy Americans and poor 
Ghanaians, where the support of the squash elite met 
the resilience and ingenuity of the underprivileged, 
Imoro saw the heavens spark and two million bills fall 
into his worn hands.

BENJAMIN MUELLER is a senior in Berkeley College.
He is executive editor of TNJ.



**Title: The Way the Wind Blows**
**Author: Maya Averbuch**
**Page number(s): 34-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Ten minutes after I was due at Phoenix Press, 
Inc., the spokes of my bike were still spinning. 
I searched out every corner’s street sign, hoping 
that the next would say James Street. Knowing that the 
friendly businessman I had spoken to was probably 
checking his watch, I had the sinking feeling that comes 
with being lost—until I saw the waving white arms of 
the wind turbine. They twirled gracefully in the breeze 
against the blue background of the sky. The turbine’s 
long, slender base reached far above the boats gliding 
under the bridge nearby and the children playing in the 
park below.


Connecticut’s only commercial-size wind turbine 
is perched at the meeting of the Quinnipiac and Mill 
Rivers in an industrial area of New Haven. It belongs 
to Phoenix Press, a family-run business that prints 
everything from instruction manuals to calendars, and 
which erected the 150-foot-tall machine in 2010 to help 
power its production center. Brian Driscoll, one of the 
owners of the press and the man behind the turbine idea, 
has a maverick streak; he has fought to make his printing 
business succeed in an industry where companies are 
rapidly closing doors, but has done so by jumping into 
another that is struggling to get off the ground. Though 
Driscoll’s project was mostly met with support, many 
other wind energy initiatives in Connecticut have failed. 
Several years after the inauguration of Phoenix Press’s 
turbine, questions remain about whether turning to 
wind was—and is—worth the cost, for both Driscoll 
and the rest of the state. 
Driscoll, a large, white-haired man with rimless 
glasses, met me in a waiting room featuring an antique 
printing press purchased at an auction. After ushering 
me into his office, he showed me a computer screen with 
an image of a turbine and three virtual dials tracking 
the turbine’s velocity (nearly one revolution per second, 
when I arrived), total energy production, and wind 
speed. The day was a windy one, and as I watched as the 
virtual needle indicating wind direction flick downwards, 
toward the south, I knew the real turbine was turning 
with it.


Since Driscoll and his two brothers, Tony and Kevin, 
founded their company in 1982, many relatives have 
found jobs there. Kevin is still a co-owner; their mother 
worked as a receptionist and their sister as a bookkeeper, 
Driscoll told me after we walked past his daughter at the 
front desk. Only seven of the thirty-two employees are 
related to him, but he extends the same familial good 
feeling to all his employees. 
The staff has shrunk over the years, and is far 
from the seventy-five people it used to be. When the 
economy started to tank in 2007, he looked for ways 
to cut back on purchases, labor costs—anything that 
would help Phoenix Press. Business looked bleak, and 
Driscoll was not alone in his concerns. According to the 
National Association for Printing Leadership (NAPL) 
and the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, over a quarter 
Opposite page: photo from Phoenix Press
of commercial printers have shut down since 2000. 
Industry employment has fallen by over forty percent 
because of newer, more efficient machines that require 
less manpower. Additionally, many clients have begun 
designing their own products rather than working with 
external pre-press departments, and have also turned to 
the Internet to distribute information that would have 
been printed.


This economic desperation 
sparked the idea for the wind 
turbine. Perhaps for my benefit, 
Driscoll told the moment of 
revelation with cinematic detail. 
It happened on a break 
one afternoon: “When I walked 
around 
the 
corner 
of 
building, the wind was blowing, 
and it started to blow my hair. 
My shirt was fluttering and my 
pants were fluttering,” Driscoll 
said. After a stroll later the same 
afternoon toward a nearby air 
quality monitoring station that 
also kept track of wind speed, 
he started to ask more questions 
about solar, wind, and tidal energy. In the following 
months, he petitioned for permission to build a turbine 
from the local planning and zoning commission, and 
secured a $200,000 grant from the Connecticut Clean 
Energy Fund, the quasi-state agency that has since 
become the Connecticut Clean Energy Finance and 
Investment Authority (CEFIA). Despite all the troubles 
technology had brought, it also had the potential to save 
Phoenix Press. 
Though the total cost of the turbine, $500,000, was 
high, they decided to install it largely for its financial 
benefit, as it would both cut electricity costs and make the 
press more attractive to customers 
invested in sustainability. 
“We were doing things in the 
right direction, but this was going 
to separate us a huge amount 
from our competition,” Driscoll 
said. Still, he maintained that 
the company’s green practices, 
which 
include 
recycling 
all 
paper, cardboard, wood skids, 
and aluminum plates; printing 
on paper certified by the Forest 
Stewardship Council; and using 
linseed- 
and 
soybean-based 
inks, are not solely financially 
motivated. 
Blaine 
Collison, 
Director of the Environmental 
Protection Agency’s Green Power 
Partnership, in which Phoenix Press participates, pointed 
out that the three hundred or so new partners each year 
come in with a desire to be green, but they would not—
or perhaps could not—join if they did not profit from 
investing in sustainability projects.


A small business like Phoenix 
Press hitting headlines with 
its biggest project in several 
decades was meant to be a 
game-changer. Poster-size 
prints of  construction day 
photos still lie in a stack in 
the office.


A small business like Phoenix Press hitting 
headlines with its biggest project in several decades 
was meant to be a game-changer. Poster-sized prints of 
construction day photos still lie in a stack in the office. 
Though Driscoll was not one of the “rugged guys” that 
installed the turbine, as he calls them, he was involved 
in the construction process every step of the way. He 
showed me a photo of himself in a white hardhat, 
harness, and sunglasses, noting that a crane lifted him 
nearly above the turbine itself so that he could get a 
better look. “Can you imagine? That’s how high I was,” 
he said. “But at that point I would have jumped up there. 
I was so excited.”
Since then, dozens of articles have been written 
about the turbine, and over a thousand people have 
visited. Hundreds of schoolchildren entered into 
a contest to name the turbine, which was adorably 
christened Gus(t). But Driscoll’s enthusiasm is decidedly 
subdued now; the turbine has been less of a boon 
than he and his brother had 
hoped it would. Though all 
of the press’s clients can see 
the “Wind to Print” logo on 
their products, their biggest 
concern, ultimately, is printing 
costs: “Regardless of how 
good you are and how well 
equipped you are and how 
many turbines you have and 
how many green initiatives 
you have, you’ve got to have at 
least close to the lowest price,” 
Driscoll said. Andrew D. 
Paparozzi, NAPL’s chief economist, pointed out that this 
hypercompetitiveness makes other companies shy away 
from green initiatives; when asked about their capital 
investment priorities for the next three years, only eleven 
percent of commercial printers cited sustainability. Gary 
Jones, an assistant vice president at Printing Industries 
of America, noted that the vast majority of the industry 
is taking some environmentally-friendly measures: “The 
real question is what’s the level.” Recycled papers and 
vegetable-based inks are fairly common, he said, but 
many companies are hesitant to take steps as bold as 
Phoenix Press has. With space limitations on smaller 
companies and sky-high technology costs, generating 
their own energy is simply not feasible. Even if they 
were to go ahead with new eco-friendly projects, returns 
are never guaranteed. 
Driscoll’s turbine generates about a third of 
Phoenix Press’s electricity, and the company is credited 
by the local utility when it feeds unused energy to the 
neighborhood’s electricity grid. But as Driscoll hesitantly 
admits, the company’s profit margin has been less 
generous than expected because the turbine just isn’t 
spinning as quickly as expected. The press estimated 
energy production using standard maps that show 
wind speeds one hundred meters in the air, where wind 
speeds are much higher than at the turbine’s actual level. 
According to Dave Ljungquist, the Director of Energy 
Efficiency Deployment at CEFIA and a member of 
the committee that approved Phoenix Press’s grant, as 
a result, the company’s actual energy output is tens of 
thousands of kilowatt-hours below the estimates each 
year. Back in the Phoenix Press offices, Driscoll drew a 
sketch on a piece of paper to show me how Long Island 
blocks some of the wind coming into Long Island 
Sound, creating disruptive turbulence. Ljungquist thinks 
that the more likely cause of this turbulence is nearby 
structures, such as Q-Bridge and the smokestacks of 
United Illuminating’s English Station.


Though new technology has 
helped CEFIA more accurately 
track lower-level winds, the outlook 
is bleak. “Given the technology 
that we have in wind, a good wind 
turbine really doesn’t start to look 
economical unless you see an average 
wind speed of twelve miles per 
hour,” Ljungquist said. “There are 
very, very few places in Connecticut 
that have an average wind speed of 
twelve miles per hour.” However, 
he described all the other turbines 
you would find if you took a drive 
north on Route I-95, which made Massachusetts and 
Rhode Island look like they have slightly more optimistic 
prospects.  
Glenn Weston-Murphy, the founder of the 
Connecticut Wind Working Group, said that while 
Connecticut will never have wind farms on the scale of 
those in Texas and Oklahoma, smaller-scale development 
is likely. When I met him in one of the restricted-access 
rooms of Yale’s Mason Laboratory, Weston-Murphy, 
who works as an engineering design adviser there, said, 
“Phoenix Press is a nice example of where it can and 
does work reasonably.” His big complaint was that 
CEFIA and Connecticut’s legislators are not doing 
enough. With a touch of cynicism, he said that the 
fact that Phoenix Press’s small 100-kilowatt turbine is 
the only commercial-size turbine currently functioning 
in the state is “representative of the sort of lukewarm 
reception that Connecticut has for wind energy.” 
From Weston-Murphy’s perspective, CEFIA is too 



**Title: A Wind Turbine in Connecticut**
**Author: Maya Averbuch**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
April 2013
tight-fisted with its money to help the state’s nascent 
wind industry get off the ground. He sounded slightly 
peeved as he described how, as an early recipient of 
funds specifically for on-site generation, Phoenix Press 
hit it big, but several other more recent wind projects 
have been turned down. Though CEFIA still provides 
grants and rebates, which are largely paid for by a 
renewable energy fee on customers’ utility bills, it has 
aimed to reduce reliance on such direct funding. Instead, 
Ljungquist said, they want to serve as a “green bank” 
that attracts private capital to the energy efficiency 
market. For Ljungquist, this puts his organization at 
the forefront of renewable energy development. For 
Weston-Murphy, it is a problem: “They are more finance 
people now than they are technology people, so they’re 
just looking at hard numbers as opposed to what are we 
trying to do here,” he said. In any case, Connecticut’s 
state-mandated renewable energy portfolio standards 
require that utilities get twenty percent of their energy 
from renewable energy sources by 2020, so development 
of renewable technology, wind or otherwise, has to 
continue. 

While Driscoll described his turbine as unobtrusive, 
lovely even—a moving piece of sculpture that was 
quieter than the motorcycles driving by outside, other 
residents do not seem to share his view on the energy 
machines. “People don’t want tall towers in their 
backyard, or their neighborhood, or even their town,” 
Ljungquist said. A wind testing machine at Yale’s West 
Campus was shut down three years after its construction 
due to complaints about its beeping noise. A wind farm 
proposal in Prospect, Connecticut was shut down due 
to locals’ bitter protests. The proposed Cape Wind 
development in Nantucket Sound, which is set to be 
the first offshore wind farm in the country, has won 
approval, but is still highly controversial. 

After emerging from rooms filled with hulking 
printing presses with ink-smeared rollers into the 
backyard of Phoenix Press, it was hard to not to look up 
at the turbine’s slender white stalk and find it beautiful. 
The motor whined faintly, and Driscoll and I listened 
to the whoosh of blades slicing through the air. As the 
wind bit into our cheeks, we shrank into our coats and 
stuffed our hands further into our pockets. The area was 
overgrown with weeds, and a pile of rubbish sat in front 
of a the remnants of a building next door, making the 
turbine seem all the more majestic as it spun above us. 

Weston-Murphy said that tens of thousands of 
people who commute across Q-Bridge each 
day see the turbine, and, despite its limitations, it is 
“a testament to the Yankee ingenuity spirit.” Though 
Driscoll sounded disappointed as he spoke of the 
lack of profit from the turbine, he has maintained 
some of that go-getter spirit, partly for himself and 
partly for people like me who come to learn about 
the future of renewable energy in Connecticut: “It’s 
so cool to look at it, to watch it spin, and to know 
that it’s helping run and keep the lights on for this 
whole big plant,” he said, brimming with pride.

As I bid Driscoll farewell at the door to the 
offices that have emptied out and gone dark for the 
day, I could not help but get caught up in his bright 
vision of the turbine. But as I headed back down 
Chapel with a broken bike light, oddly querulous 
winds pushing up against me at each turn, the turbine 
receded in the distance until it was just a pinwheel on 
the horizon.
TNJ
MAYA AVERBUCH is a freshman in Berkeley College. 
She is an associate editor of TNJ.



**Title: An Interview with Daniel Yergin**
**Author:  The New Journal**
**Page number(s): 38-39**

38
The New Journal
interview.
Daniel Yergin founded the New Journal in 1967, the summer before his senior year at Yale. He then went on to 
study international relations at Cambridge as a Marshall scholar, start an energy consulting company called Cambridge 
Energy Research Associates, and win the Pulitzer Prize for his 1992 book, The Prize. Yergin is one of  the most 
quoted authors on energy issues. A revised paperback edition of  his sixth book, The Quest: Energy, Security, and 
the Remaking of the Modern World—which The Economist called a “masterly piece of  work”—is out now. This 
is a condensed version of  the conversation Yergin had with members of  the New Journal’s editorial board when he was 
back on campus last month. 
An Interview with Daniel Yergin   
Illustration by Tobias Kirchwey
not have an outlet, and just came in.
We drew people from the graduate school: one 
of the key writers was the wife of a guy who had been 
my TA; there was a wife of a law school student. A 
freshman showed up who wrote this great article about 
when the Doors came to New Haven. The magazine 
gathered momentum very quickly; the talent appeared. 
Fiction narrative applied to nonfiction was the heart of 
what we were trying to do. 
TNJ: Tell us about the founding of the New Journal.
DY: I’d run for chairman of the YDN and lost. 
Usually when you lose you became managing editor, but 
I had this mission, the New Journal, to find this voice 
for New Journalism. I was able to raise a few thousand 
dollars, because that’s all we needed then, and start the 
magazine. We were able to get an office in the basement 
of Silliman and it worked like a magnet. Once it was 
there, people found their way there, people who might 


39
TNJ: How much did the idea of New Journalism 
inform and shape the magazine, and was that challenging? 
You had to have all these literary skills.
DY: There were really strong models. Gay Talese 
and David Halberstam were very prominent. There was 
Esquire, New York—the kind of places where that writing 
was taking place. It was very compelling. We didn’t have 
a lot of questions about launching the magazine. We just 
had entrepreneurial self-confidence. Yale had this very 
strong entrepreneurial tradition in journalism that went 
back to Henry Luce and the founding of Time. Looking 
back, it seems to me that the New Journal was a bolder, 
riskier thing to do than it seemed at the time. 
TNJ: What did you like reporting on when you were 
starting out?
DY: I was always drawn to narrative. I did my senior 
thesis on satire in the Victorian novel, and I was taking 
a writing course with Robert Penn Warren. So I had this 
deep belief in the importance of storytelling, which I 
think I still have: to find the stories that illuminate, and 
find the emblematic personalities who carry the story. 
I certainly carried over the kind of writing and editing 
skills I learned at the New Journal into my life and my 
work.
I went to England to take a Marshall Scholarship, 
but I continued to do magazine journalism and wrote 
for British press, New York, and the New York Times 
Magazine. During the mid-seventies, my journalistic and 
academic interests came together around the subject of 
energy, and I began writing about energy journalistically. 
At Cambridge you don’t take any courses for a Ph.D. 
They just say, “Go away, write a book and come back.” 
At least, that’s what they said to me. That was my first 
book, Shattered Peace. I think that the kind of writing I 
learned from doing New Journalism was extremely 
helpful because that was the way I’ve written ever since, 
to combine argument with narrative.
TNJ: What leads you from that kind of narrative 
journalism to book-length journalism?
DY: One of our colleagues, Susan Braudy, gave me 
a writing lesson: you don’t sit down and write a book or a 
chapter. You sit down and write a paragraph. Eventually 
you have a lot of paragraphs and it looks like a chapter or 
an article. I think that in the books I write, the chapters 
have a kind of article-like arc to them. It is different, I 
think, to undertake a book. Both The Quest and The Prize 
took me a while to get going. It is a little overwhelming. 
When you are looking at scaling the heights of a book, 
it is a more complicated process to get yourself going. 
An article is very finite. You know it’s going to be three 
thousand, four thousand words, and you know how to 
shape it.
TNJ: Which newspapers do you read?
DY: We get five newspapers at home and lots of 
magazines. We must be one of the last households to do 
that. You have to decide what it is you want. Whether 
it’s the Times, the Wall Street Journal, the Atlantic or the 
Economist—you’re making an investment in the editors, 
the people who will be the gatekeepers for you, making 
the judgments, because otherwise you’ll just be bobbing 
in a constant sea of undifferentiated information.



**Title:  Untitled**
**Author:  Unknown**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:

--- Page 40 ---
