Publication date: 09/97
Volume 30, Issue 1

**Title: Straight from the Gift Horse's Mouth**
**Author: Gabriel Snyder**
**Page number(s): 17-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
When Larry Kramer (BR '57) first decided to bequest his entire estate to Yale, he thought it would be a simple affair. "I didn't think there'd be a problem in the world. I thought, hey shit, they're gonna love me. How many people show up with this?" Kramer's "this" was $5 million, money he made from writing screenplays which his brother profitably invested for him. According to Kramer, Yale would have received an original $5 million, and depending on the performance of his investments, an additional amount upon his death, which Kramer estimates could have been $5 to $10 million more. 
The hitch, though, was that Kramer would only give Yale the money if it endowed a professor in a gay or lesbian topic or built a gay and lesbian student center. 

The instant The New York Times, U.S. News & World Report, and Time reported this past July that Yale had refused Kramer's terms and Kramer had withdrawn his offer, the H-word popped up: homophobia. William Rubenstein (MC '82), former director of the Lesbian and Gay Rights Project of the ACLU and presently a professor at the UCLA Law School, dashed off a letter to President Levin the day after the Times story appeared, threatening to withhold his donations to the university and scoffing at Yale's argument that gay and lesbian studies is too narrow a field to justify an endowed faculty chair. "This excuse, in the context of a university the size and depth of Yale, struck me as so preposterous that it revealed that Yale's decision must have been driven by little more than homophobia," Rubenstein wrote. "This seems especially so because a preeminent expression of homophobia is the denial and erasure of homosexual expression (this is, after all, 'the love that dare not speak its name'); Yale's actions reek of such prejudice." 

As for Kramer, he points to the English department's decision to deny tenure to Wayne Koestenbaum as an example of Yale's hostility to scholars of gay literature. But Koestenbaum, now a professor at the City University of New York, is not as quick to come to the conclusion that Yale is a homophobic place. Koestenbaum appeals to the literal meaning of the word homophobia ("fear of homos") and argues that fear is a psychic condition. "And where is the psyche at Yale?" Koestenbaum asks. "Yale is a complicated institution composed of many individuals, interests, histories, directions, and wills. We're not talking about a psyche here. We're talking about a governing body that doesn't act benignly all the time. About such a complicated place, you can't say: Yale is homophobic." 

Koesrenbaum's comment highlights the crux of the dispute between Kramer and Yale: on the one side there is the institution, Yale University, and on the other there is Larry Kramer, the individual psyche. So far, discussions of Kramer's gift have attempted to equate Kramer and Yale as entities of the same order. An article in the Village Voice blew Kramer up to represent all of gay studies, pitting him against the entire academic establishment. The New York Times presented Provost Alison Richard (Hon. MA '86), who reviews all bequests to the university, as the embodiment of Yale-an individual going up against Larry Kramer mano a mano. Neither distortion approximates the truth. Kramer and Yale each acted according to vastly different motivations. 

Even before Richard could consider whether Yale should host an endowed chair in gay and lesbian studies, the pressures of bureaucratic policies within the university prevented her from accepting Kramer's gift. In the early 1990s, budgetary concerns instigated a freeze on faculty hiring. Since that time, for every new endowed chair, a senior faculty position elsewhere in the university must be eliminated. Even though Kramer's gift would have funded the cost of the position, Richard says she could not have accepted Kramer's offer because it would open the floodgates to more requests for new faculty positions. "As soon as there is one exception, I will have faculty from all corners of the campus saying, 'I have donors, too,'" Richard says. Though she claims Yale would not have accepted the gift even if the freeze was not in place, the provost's commitment to administrative policy comes first. 

Charles Porter (GRD '62), chairman of the Research Fund for Lesbian and Gay Studies committee (REFIAGS), was put in an equally awkward position. As the head of this group, he is responsible for assuring that Yale adequately supports gay and lesbian studies and is understandably in agreement with many of Kramer's criticisms of Yale. However, Porter's committee recommended against a gay and lesbian student center and made no recommendation on the endowment of a professor. "I must say I agree with the university's position," Porter says. Porter feels that there is not a strong enough demand for a gay student center and fears that one would marginalize gay and lesbian undergraduates. On the proposal of a new professor, Porter says, "There should be a continuing interest in gay and lesbian studies," but accepting Kramer's gift was not feasible. "If we are going to have one person who is going to be appointed, how would we ever decide which field it would be in?" 

Kramer's pressure on Yale to show its commitment to gay and lesbian studies has benefitted REFIAGS. The fund will move into a staffed office this month and a brochure is going out to alumni under the aegis of the university to encourage more donor support of gay and lesbian studies. These gains may look small, but Porter says his committee has been trying to do these things for years. "We were moving in that direction before, but I think we got there more quickly because of Kramer," he says. As the beneficiary of the administration's good will, REFIAGS was not in a position to battle with the provost's office. Porter says, "I didn't find it appropriate to fight." 

In the middle of Kramer's negotiations with Yale, Richard asked him to meet with some lesbian, bisexual, and gay students currently attending Yale to get their comments on his proposals. Richard speculates, "He is concerned that students might have the same experience that he had in the 1950s. I appreciate that concern on his part, but I don't think that he recognizes that the times have changed since the 1950s." Since the time that Yale turned him down, Kramer says that many schools, including Columbia, the University of Chicago, Johns Hopkins, and Brown, have approached him about endowing a professor. But Kramer says he is not interested in donating his money to another school. He says, "Tony Kushner teases me, 'Why do you want your money to go to such an elitist institution?'" Kramer says it was his miserable college years at Yale that made him want to give money to the school. "I don't know. It probably goes back to being so terribly unhappy there, trying to kill myself, succeeding almost in spite of Yale and not because of it, and still having this almost adolescent dream that I would come back and make it a better place so that kids wouldn't have to go through what I went through." 

"Yale then was fraternities and prep schools," Kramer explains. Kramer's older brother, father, and two uncles all went to Yale before him, but he was hardly a child of privilege; Kramer came from a middle class Jewish family. "I was a high school kid from Washington on a scholarship." Though Kramer couldn't identify with the hordes of Andover and Exeter kids that surrounded him, it was his sexuality that did the most to set him apart. "The word 'gay' didn't exist," Kramer says, "but I knew that I had feelings that I didn't know what to do with. I don't know that I dwelled on them or could verbalize them. I just knew that I had strong emotional feelings for boys that I didn't have for girls. There was no place to put it. How do you find another person like yourself?" 

Kramer's first sexual experience with a boy occurred even before high school. "I had sex with a kid in junior high school, so I knew what that was," he says. "But it was always something that you did that you regretted, certainly because I didn't see anybody else around me and there wasn't anybody to talk to about it at all." Unable to find any other gay students at Yale, Kramer became involved with one of his professors. "At the end of my freshman year, one of my professors seduced a very willing me. We had a brief affair since it was the end of the year and he was going off on a year's sabbatical." In Kramer's quasi-autobiographical novel Faggots, he writes of a similar situation: 

I'm going to be a faggod I'm going to be a faggod Boo Boo had first realized with terror two years ago during his junior year at Yale when the distinguished gray-haired portly, gentile professor of his History of Art: Greek Sarcophagi class suggested they have a tete-a-tete in his book-walled house on Chapel Street "to discuss the argument put forth in your paper on the marble frieze of Noxos." After six-and-one-half glasses of some fancy vintage wine, Boo from a very early age not being a cheap date, he was laid back, as he somehow knew he would be, and, shivering with the apprehensions and expectations of the guilty, cursed, and damned, which he also knew he would be ... 

Kramer says his actual relationship with the professor was healthy for him. "He was a nice man, and he was the first person who said, 'You know, there are more of us out there.'" But Kramer learned this only after he tried to commit suicide because he felt like the "only gay kid at Yale." It was this memory that made Kramer initially more interested in building a gay student center than endowing a professor. 

"Academic achievement back then was prized for zilch. A lot of people did well in school, but they had to show somehow that they did something else, a sport or the Glee Club or singing groups." Kramer was accepted into the Glee Club his sophomore year and was part of a singing group called the Augmented Seven which specialized in calypso songs. "That was basically what kept me alive. It gave me a social life and something to do." 

After Kramer graduated with an English degree in 1957, he spent most of the 1960s in England writing screenplays, his most famous being Women in Love. Kramer described his time in England in a recent interview with the British newspaper The