Publication date: January 1973
Volume: Six
Issue number: Three

**MASTHEAD:**
- Editors: Joel Krieger, Ron Roel
- Associate Editor: Gary Friedman
- Photography Editor: James Karageorge
- Design: John Kane
- Art Director: Susan Warren
- Production: Nina Glickson, Roger Sametz
- Business Manager: Brian Raub
- Contributing Editors: George Kannar, Jonathan Marks, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Publisher: Stuart Rohrer


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- Comment: Calendar Reform, Encounter - The AYA
- The "Whitney": no pets, to say the least. - Gary Friedman
- Have Mercy
- Money doesn't grow on trees: now they tell us.
- Comment - Joel Krieger
- Calendar Reform - Joel Krieger
- Encounter - James Karageorge
- AYA - James Karageorge


**Title: Comment**
**Author: Joel Krieger**
**Page number(s): 2**

Last Thursday the Yale College Fac-
ulty passed the second of two resolutions 
aimed at implementing a tri-mester pro-
gram. Convinced of the financial neces-
sity for change of some sort, and suspect-
ing that the plan would become a reality 
regardless of their deliberation, the 
faculty took upon itself the responsi-
bility for promoting crucial educational 
change. Of course, as pointed out in fac-
ulty discussions, this is only a pilot pro-
gram. The faculty may withdraw the step 
they made last week. But the manner of 
deliberation and hasty acceptance offers 
little hope that the reconsideration next 
fall will be thoughtful enough for rever-
sal. The trimester plan was adopted with-
out debate on either of two alternatives 
proposed in the report of the faculty's 
own Blum-Pelikan Committee: a calen-
dar consisting of four quarters, or the 
"strengthened semester" plan proposed 
originally by the Dahl Study Group. The 
plan was endorsed and the mechanism 
for its final implementation developed 
without detailed discussion of the plan--
partially because at this point no details 
are known. And yet the faculty acted 
with all deliberate speed. Resolutions de-
signed to stall implementation were de-
feated handily, as were proposals for fac-
ulty study of an alternative summer pro-
gram which would not so directly affect 
the fall and spring terms. 


Why was the faculty moved to accept 
this version of calendar reform so read-
ily? Beyond their awareness of the econ-
omic exigencies, the answers begin to 
thin out. One can assume they weren't 
overly concerned with the sophomoric 
demand for a more satisfying December 
vacation. Perhaps they were more heavily 
struck by the favorable terms of the pro-
posal as it would affect them-teaching 
one summer in six or seven years in return 
for an extra fall or spring term off the 
following year, and an extra month off 
every other year. Perhaps so struck, they 
were less interested in the educational im-
pltcations and uncertainties of the plan 
than we-without the benefit of such ex-
tensive personal inducement--can afford 
to be. Here are some of the implications 
of the trimester calendar which I've heard 
discussed in the Last few days: 
• the change in fall and spring teacher-
student ratio resulting from compensa-
tory faculty leaves for summer teaching 
• the effect particularly on small de-
partments and majors in those depart-
ments of only 1/6 or l /7 faculty presence 
during the summer 
• the effect on graduate student disserta-
tion progress (;ind thus job availability) 
caused by summer T A responsibilities 
• the possible downward trend in 
Graduate School financial support caused 
by increased student earning potential 
• the week or two likely to be cut off 
each of the three terms 
• the effect on personal and class ties of 
the undergraduate taking his residence in 
a sequence independent from that of any 
group 
• the effect on spring sports 
• a summertime break-down of the res-
idential college system and the reversion 
to traditional dormitories 
• the hidden inducement for the under-
graduate to accept the three-year BA 
• the hidden impetus for the faculty to 
move to the 32 credit graduation require-
ment 
and finally for the original calendar reform 
enthusiasts, 
• the educational effect of fulftlling re-
quirements for five courses in a mad rush 
before Christmas--or, conversely, the 
likelihood of taking home exams and pa-
pers over vacation, in which case nothing 
much would have changed 

We can only hope that these and other 
implications will be carefully considered 
before a tentative decision by the faculty 
puts Yale education crashing ahead on 
automatic pilot. 

Joel Krieger


**Title: Encounter**
**Author: James Karageorge**
**Page number(s): 2-3**

Walking home from a downtown bar at 
two in the morning, I met a black man in 
his early twenties who wore a black knit 
cap and an army jacket. He had a few 
grey hairs in his beard. He asked me for 
a cigarette and some directions. I gave 
him one, lit it, and asked him where he 
wanted to go. "I want to go to the 
place where my brother died ... just to 
see it." 


He had read about it in the news-
papers. It happened at the corner of 
Olapel and Orange. It had been a long 
time since he decided that he couldn't 
stand downtown New Haven. But he 
wanted me to take him there. 


We cut across the Green. I wasn't 
saying anything. 


"Man, I can't understand why he 
didn't tell me what was bothering him. 
He was at my house an hour before it 
happened. I loved him. We rapped 
_, , ~ 
about everything." 


I rested my arm on his shoulders and 
told him that he was really bumm10g me 
out. He said I shouldn't touch him. 


We got to Chapel and Orange and he 
told me that his brother had jumped off 
of the top of the corner bank building. 
"In the newspapers they said that it 
was five stories high. Do you think it's 
five stories high?" 


"Sure." 


"There's no way you can say it ain't 
five stories high-Right?" 


"Yeah." 


five stories high." 


"Nope." 


He explained that his brother was no 
man, but a cat, and had climbed up the 
front of the building using the strength 
of the tips of his fingers and toes, with 
help from some bricks that were sticking 
out. 


He sat down on the sidewalk and told 
me to sit down with him. I said I wanted 
to stand. He raised his voice to tell me 
that he could still smell his brother's 
blood on the sidewalk. He went over to 
the nearby sewer grate and said he could 
smell the blood in the sewer. He muttered 
something about how it was appropriate 
that his brother's blood should be down 
the sewer. The police drove around the 
corner and gave us a second look. I 
thought that if we were both picked up I 
would probably be released without any 
trouble. He broke my train of thought: 
"Why didn't he just get some members 
of his tribe together, go into the bank 
with machine guns, kill all the mother-
fuckers, and take all the money he wanted? 
He didn't have to jump from a flagpole 
on top of a bank." 


He was ready to go. He wanted a 
hamburger 1f all the "pig establishments" 
weren't closed. I said that we could get 
doughnuts and coffee. 


"I am a meat eater. I'm a man, right?" 


We walked passed the Green, up Chapel 
Street, and stopped in front of the con-
struction site at the Yale Art Gallery. I 
was in the middle of pointing to the 
White Tower, and telling him to go there 
for a hamburger. He broke in and said 
that all he and his tribe needed were the 
two caterpillars and some machine guns 
and the bank would be ·'Knocked off 
just like that." I agreed. When we got to 
York and Chapel, I told him I was 
splitting. 


"Hey, I'm gonna give you this medal 
I got in the marines and I want you to 
give it to my brother." 


'"I can't man. I don't know your 
brother. You give it to him." 


"OK." 


I told him I was splitting. 


·'Take this medal and put it on my 
brother's grave out in Branford." 


"But I don't know your brother, man. 
You should do it." 




He started toward the White Tower. 


I went home. 

James Karageorge


**Title: AYA**
**Page number(s): 3**

The Yale alumnus is one of our classic 
conuc archetypes. He is a staple of New 
Yorker cartoons. for instance, and inside 
the Yale Club of New York, a massive 
The New Journal j2S January 1973j2 
Volume six, number 3 

The month I graduated in 1968, the 
New Yorker ran a drawing on its cover of 
a middle-aged man, a blue-and -white 
striped jacket buttoned neatly around 
his paunch, standing alone in the middle 
of what was obviously the Old Campus, 
looking rather mournfully at his bygone 
surroundings. "Ho, ho, ho," the cover 
seemed to be saying, " Ho, ho, ho." 


Certainly the New Haven crowd jars 
much mirth from the alumnus, too. When 
I was a freshman in Vanderbilt Hall, an 
alumnus knocked tentatively on our door 
one Indian summer afternoon. He wanted 
to show his old room to his young son, 
who is probably at Yale or applying 
there today. We all thought it was pretty 
funny, like the fulminating letters in the 
Yale Alumni Magazine, always calling for 
the removal of Bill Coffin or Staughton 
Lynd or a radical sociologist named 
Robert Cook, who used to speed to 
classes on a motorcycle and always seemed 
to be running for Congress. 


Last November, when I visited New 
Haven for the first gathering of the Asso-
ciation of Yale Alumni (A YA), I carried 
with me enough detachment to continue 
to be amused at the alumni, even though 
I was right there with them, my Magic 
Marker name on my lapel encased in a 
plastic tag. As I walked awkwardly 
around the campus, people seemed to 
stare at me as if I were some kind of 
interloper, until I realized it was my name 
tag that was attracting their attention. 
Name tags are demeaning, anyway. Once 
I took off the tag, I could pass as just a 
Law student, I discovered to my relief. 


Of course the older alumni were all some-
( continued on page /3) 


**Title: The "Whitney": no pets, to say the least.**
**Author: Gary Friedman**
**Page number(s): 3-4**

Mayday, 1970, for those who remember 
it all, is a confusing and somewhat em-
barrassing memory, its luster now tar-
nished by subsequent years of "eerie 
tranquility," 1950's nostalgia, and per-
haps a bit of plain Yale normalcy. But 
while the students were raising their 
Mayday fists and "shutting down Yale 
to open it up to the community," the 
University was thinking about shutting 
down part of the community-a~ least 
temporarily- to open it up for more of 
Yale. Yale was getting crowded, and to 
handle the admission of more women, 
the University either would have to 
cut back enrollment of its thousand 
male leaders or it would have to pro-
vide more student housing. 


The choice was clear. Although he 
would not make the announcement 
public until August, John Hay Whitney, 
'26, had decided to give Yale about 
$15 million in the form of a trust fund 
(to be paid upon his death), to build 
housing which would alleviate under-
graduate overcrowding. Early that 
summer, the Yale Corporation hired 
Mitchell/Giurgola Associates, a New 
York and Philadelphia architectural 
firm, to begin working on a housing 
program. At the same time, Kingman 
Brewster asked Elting E. Morison, then 
the master of Timothy Dwight College, 
to analyze undergraduate housing needs, 
and become the chief negotiator be- . 
tween the University and the architects. 


Two years later, Yale University 
called a full-fledged press conference 
to unveil the proposed plans for the 
thirteenth and fourteenth residential 
colleges-complete with architect's 
models and statements, a biography 
of Whitney, and Brewster's jokes about 
naming the new colleges George and 
Harry. The colleges' design featured 
an unusual flexibility in a site. where 
according to Romaldo Giurgola, the 
chief designer, "the University merges 
with the City" to provide "a crossroads 
for the campus and the community." 


The new colleges, situated on the block 
bounded by Whitney, Grove, and Tem-
ple, contained commercial space and 
parking to help ease relations with the 
City. 


ln the months following the Sep-
tember press conference, the initial 
glow around the proposed colleges 
began to wear thin. People began to 
criticize Yale's apparent disregard for 
the Kingsly-Havemeyer house, a New 
Haven landmark which seemed des-
tined to fall under the new colleges. 


It has become increasingly unclear 
just how much of a "crossroads" 
between Yale and the community 
the new colleges will be. And, in 
the words of one Yale administrator, 
negotiations between the City and 
the University regarding the proposed 
colleges have become confused "circles 
within circles, one of the most com-
plicated messes you could imagine." 


In October, 1970, Morison decided 
to call together a group of seven friends 
to informally assist him in his inquiries. 
ln addition to. his wife,. Elizabeth, the 
group included psychologist Kenneth 
Keniston, Trumbull master Kai Erikson, 
Professor Richard Goldsby, graduate 
student Nancy Vickers, architect Peter 
Millard, and Dean of Undergraduate 
Affairs John Wilkinson. He dubbed 
the group "Afterguard", a sailing term 
which refers to a group of wise old 
sailors who sit in the cockpit and ad-
vise the skipper, who is free to accept 
or ignore their suggestions. 


Especially in the days when the 
issue of University governance was 
under review, the group's popular title, 
the Morison Committee, may have 
implied to some that the group was a 
formally established structure within 
the University's decision-making 
framework. The Committee members 
themselves, however, were not con-
fused about Afterguard's role. Erikson 
recently empliasized that, "the Com-
mittee has to be seen as an advisory 
board to Morison. That's what its real 
status was." 


Morison and his committee sought 
to determine, through meetings and 
conversations with students, whether 
Yale needed and wanted more residen-
tial colleges, or whether it would better 
be served by alternative housing pro-
grams. Certain objective indicators, 
such as the increasing number .of stu-
dents moving off-campus, showed that 
at least ten percent of the students 
preferred not to live in the residen-
tial colleges. The Student-Community 
Housing Corporation (SCHC) strongly 
urged that alternative housing be con-
structed to meet this student demand. 


In the spring of 1971, Erikson and 
Millard offered a Trumbull College 
seminar in "The Architect and the 
University." The seminar was not 
designed specifically as a student ad-
junct to the Morison Committee, but 
six of the fifteen students saw them-
selves in this capacity, and consequent-
ly devoted their efforts to producing 
proposals for the Committee. Erikson 
and Millard were pleased with such 
student input, but only on the same 
advisory basis on which Morison 
accepted their proposals. 


Unfortunately, some of the students 
believed their suggestions were not 
given serious consideration and that 
a legitimate student perspective had 
been overlooked. ~though Morison 
apparently was open to all proposals 
and discussions, he insists, " 1 never 
got an interesting or useful idea out 
of all this other than that we want 
colleges." 


While that may have been an unduly 
harsh evaluation, it is true that the 
Committee had to make feasible, 
long-range proposals, and could not 
embrace opinions or values that might 
soort change. And, in the years follow-
ing Mayday,opinions and values did 
indeed change. John Wilkinson recalls 
that in the frrst few months of the 



**Yale and New Haven: A Crossroads?**
**Author: Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Committee's deliberations, many stu-
dents expressed an interest in alter-
native housing, a break with tradition, 
and the achievement of a closer rela-
tionship with the community. However, as months passed and Mayday 
consciousness faded, the Committee 
found that more students articulated 
their appreciation of such traditional 
amenities as wood panelling and fire-
places for their rooms within the resi-
dential colle~e setting. 

The february, 1971, SCHC "Housing" 
report confirmed some of Wilkinson's 
observations. Most c;tudents, the re-
port said, were satisfied with the qual-
ity of life in the colleges. But, the 
report continues, .. The single most 
pressing problem with the colleges, 
most students feel, is the excessive 
crowding which has set in since Yale 
became co-educational." 

Numerous students favored off-
campus life, the report continued, 
because "many of them feel that their 
education cannot be total or authen-
tic unless a substantial portion of their 
time is spent outside the University." 

Two years later, such social rationales 
are rarely advanced. 

Granting that students overwhel-
mingly favor the residential college 
system, the University, and Morison 
in particular, came to question whether 
it was the University's obligation to 
provide alternative housing for that 
significant minority of students dis-
satisfied with college life. Although 
Morison believes that "the college 
system properly developed is the most 
useful instrument of undergraduate 
education," he also feels that students 
should not live in colleges for the whole 
of their Yale career. But, he believes 
that if Yale provided alternative hous-
ing, much of the benefit of such hous-
ing would be lost. Wilkinson agrees, 
claiming that the off-campus movement 
is partly spurred by an anti-institu-
tional sentiment. 

A pinwheel-shaped structure nine 
stories high, the new colleges will re-
semble neither the traditional court-
yard plan of James Gamble Rogers' 
original Harkness Memorial Quadran-
gle, nor the irregular forms and en-
closed courtyard plan of Eero 
Saarinen's Morse and Stiles. In a 
formal way, they literally open out 
into the community, thus avoiding the 
unfriendly "keep-out" feeling gen-
erated by some of the older struc-
tures on campus. 

Trying to make the colleges com-
patible with their urban neighbors, 
the architects searched for a brick 
facing that would match the four 
different shapes and colors of brick 
near the structure: three different 
red colors from St. Elmo's, Timothy 
Dwight, and Silliman Colleges, and a 
white stone on the church across 
Temple Street. As a result, the brick 
facing will be a completely different 
color and much larger in size-6" by 
8" compared to 2" by 6". An off-
white plexiglass module for the stu-
dents' desks and window will punc-
tuate this brick-like wall, attempting 
to match the white of the church across 
the street. 

The two courtyards will be small, 
about 120 feet long and I 00 feet wide, 
and sunken about eight feet below 
street level. They are bounded by the 
nine-story high rise with its flat facade 
on one side and the busy street on the 
other. A four-foot high wall will 
separate the sunken courtyards from 

The courtyards are not important 
circulation passages in or out of the 
new colleges, nor do they function as 
an actual juncture of the city and the 
University. But, because they are not 
cloistered retreats, neither will they 
provide the gentleness and peace that 
are characteristics of the older 
courtyards. 

The entryway system. an ineffi-
cient and expensive mode of con-
struction, has been abaodqned. 
instead, eight single rooms are linked 
to a living room on an alternate level. 
The provision of glass enclosures in 
the hallways offsets the normal drab-
ness of hallways in student dorm~. 

Even though the University decided 
to build two new residential colleges, 
their philosophical justifications 
differed from those offered in 1930 
when the first eight colleges were 
constructed with a gift from Edward 
Steven Harkness, Yale 1897. Today, 
few speak openly of the virtues of an 
academic enclave. Architect Romaldo 
Giurgola regards the site of the new 
colleges more as "a vital area where 
the University merges with the City, 
a crossroads for the campus and com-
munity, a place of encounter." In 
fact, Mitchell/Giurgola was appar-
ently chosen by the University pre-
cisely because Giurgola displays in 
his work an acute consciousness of 
the relation of the school to the 
urban community. 

Yet, according to Erikson, the ini-
tial conception of the University-
community interface was that of a 
frontier, not a crossroads. And, indeed, 
despite the public pronouncements, 
philosophical underpinnings, and 
architectural concessions, the new 
re•idential colloges will very likely 
remain as isolated from the New Haven 
community as the existing colleges. 

The University's position is more 
ambivalent than hypocritical. It wants 
to open itself up as much as possible 
without undercutting its main func-
tion- to serve and protect its students. 

The locked gateways in all the 
colleges are hardly invitations to the 
community, but they are considered 
necessary responses to the upsurge of 
crime on campus in recent years. 

Similarly, the iron mesh on the first-
floor windows in Morse and Stiles is 
an accoutrement depressingly familiar 
to urban residents. The new colleges 
will be equally subject to the hazards 
of urban life, and surely, their gates 
too will be locked. The necessities of 
security create an unfortunate, instan-
taneous barrier to an open University-
community relationship. 

The commercial space on the ground 
floor of these colleges, designed in 
order to maintain New Haven's tax 
base, has come to represent most 
clearly the potential crossroads between 
Yale and the community. But the 
realization of that vision is by no means 
certain. Is Morton's Pharmacy a cross-
roads? Is the Yale Co-op a crossroads? 
It seems that even when students and 
New Haven residents shop in the same 
stores, interaction is minimal. 

Public walkways transversing the 
college site are also integral elements 
of the "crossroads ideology." But 
architect Fred Foote of Mitchell/ 
Giurgola, the project director, expresses 
concern that these walkways will be 
vastly under-used particularly by · 
community residents. The glass-en-
closed promenades and the glass wall 
in each living room visually link the 
new colleges' residents with the rest 
of Yale and New Haven. However, 
more likely than not, New Haven will 
become no more to these students 
than just another pretty view. 

Timothy Dwight College, for years 
surrounded by New Haven on three 
sides, never became a place for en-
counter between the University and 
the community. The tWo new col-
leges, despite certain structural inno-
vations, will apparently be no more a 
place for encounter than TD has been. 

The only way in which the new 
colleges- and indeed, Tirriothy Dwight 
and the other eleven residential 
colleges-can become a crossroads is 
through programmatic innovations 
by the University. If Yale encourages 
more New Haven residents to partake 
of University offerings and facilities, 
then perhaps the University as a whole 
will become more of a crossroads. 

Certain problems result from a 
single internal contradiction. A Yale 
residential college cannot be a place 
of encounter. But residential colleges 
which allow non-students to use 
freely their study, dining, ·or recrea-
tional facilities would risk depriving 
their own students of these benefits. 

Given the University"s limited resources 
and the ·constraints of urban America, 
the residential college system is to a 
great degree an academic enclave. 

Especially' if we want to change these 
relationships, we should not delude 
ourselves that the creation of two 
new residential colleges on Yale's 
outskirts'will bring Yale and New 
Haven significantly closer, in any more 
than tile-most obvious physical way. 

This separation between Yale and 
New Haven has been txemplified in 
the planning process. As a result, 
construction faces near-certain delay. 
Building was seheduled to start in 
March of this year, and the colleges 
were to be ready for occupancy in 
September, 1975. The Yale Daily 
News, reporting the unveiling of the 
new college designs, observed, "Al-
though official presentations to the 
zoning committees, City Pian Com-
mission, and Board of Aldermen do 
not begin until November, informal 
approvals were apparent yesterday." 

However, that yesterday was a 
long time ago. A high city official 
recently pointed out that the city and 
the University should have worked 
together more closely from the start, 
and charged that Yale deliberately 
excluded the city from early stages 
of the planning. Resulting inade-
quacies in the design have prevented 
the City Plan Commission from 
approving the program. Until the 
Commission makes its recommenda-
tions, the Board of Aldermen cannot 
act. Ultimate approval must come 
from Mayor Bart Guida. If Yale then 
puts the project out to public bid, 
construction may not begin for ano-
ther two months after that. It is 
impossible to pinpoint a starting date, 
but even if no further hitches develop, 
the original March starting date appears 
unlikely. 


**New Yale College Construction**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

In a December 18 Memorandum 
to the City Plan Commission of New 
Haven, Yale agreed to four modifica-
tions of its plans. It will move the 
Kingsley-Havemeyer House to 33 
Whitney Avenue at its own expense. 
To conform to legal requirements, 
it will increase by eight the number 
of on-site, underground parking spaces. 
It will modify the design to improve 
the deficient off-street loading facili-
ties. Finally, although Yale observes 
"this is against our better judgement," 
the University is willing to increase 
the commercial space by adding 3000 
square feet of commercial facility on 
Temple Street. In a letter to the 
University advising against the in-
creased commercial space, New York 
real estate consultants James D. 
Landauer Associates, Inc., echoed 
the concerns of numerous observers: 
"lf you recall, we have never been 
very bullish on the commercial pros-
pects for the Grove Whitney College. 
We have indicated to you that any 
commercial development undertaken 
for this location will have to be most 
imaginatively marketed to achieve 
even a modest degree of success." 

(ln a later development, a Yale Cor-
poration committee headed by Cyrus 
Vance, indicated to the City that Yale 
was also willing to pay taxes on the 
land occupied by the new colleges, 
as well as the Yale golf course). 

This new construction is expected 
to bolster the regeneration of this 
area, where empty shops attest to an 
absence of vitality. But the actual 
commercial possibilities are still up 
in the air. Who will rent these spaces 
at rates more than double current 
prices? Elting Morison hopes for 
at least "a damn fine restaurant," 
and both the city and the University 
hope for a damn high occupancy rate. 

Some members of the city govern-
ment limit their expectations of the 
project to such dollars-and-cents 
calculations, and eschew romantic 
visions of a crossroads fostered by 
nine stories of Yale University atop 
several thousand square feet of New 
Haven commercial space. The City 
Pian Commission still has the matter 
under consideration, but in a state-
ment of personal opinion rather than 
official policy, City Plan Director 
John McGurty observed, "I do not 
feel that such a crossroads can 
be achieved." 

Although New Haven's voice may 
not have been heard throughout the 
planning for the new colleges, the 
other participants in the process were 
more vocal and involved. The archi-
tects seemed genuinely eager to 
~!'\counter student opinion, though 
the sampling technique may be ques-
tioned. One wonders, for example, 
how many off-campus students were 
contacted. 

Yet Fred Foote lived in TD for a 
month, observed Yale, and spoke 
informally to students whenever 
possible. He now credits students for 
proposing the fundamental concepts 
that guided Mitchell/Giurgola's archi-
tectural creation. The emphasis on 
student privacy- 95 percent of the 
rooms are singles- and on the indi-
vidual's relationship to groups of 
other sizes- four to eight students 
will share a common, 20 foot by 20 
foot living room- is a product of 
student desires. The value of inter-
action between two colleges, as Foote 
observed between Morse and Stiles, 
was a concept incorporated into the 
plans for the new colleges. 

The essential flexibility of the 
plans is due to a recognition of chang-
ing times and changing student needs. 
As the Morison Committee realized, 
their decisions would have to remain 
feasible for the long run. Mitchell/ 
Giurgola similarly realized that its 
plans, to withstand unforeseen future 
change, had to be adaptable. The 
various living units in the colleges 
bear the same kind of relation to space 
that modular units bear to time: 
they may be re-arranged in a great 
number of ways in order to fit par-
ticular circumstances. Moreover, with 
sustained evidence of such a student 
preference, kitchens may be installed 
quite easily, thus converting a college 
suite into a nearly self-sufficient 
apartment unit. 

Except for the objection that these 
are residential colleges rather than 
an alternative housing scheme, there 
is likely to ~e little fundamental stu-
dent dissatisfaction with the structure 
of the housing. Some students may 
be dismayed to discover that the new 
colleges lack squash courts. In 1962, 
when Morse. and Stiles were built 
without squash courts, their proxi-
mity to the gym vanquished most 
objections. The new colleges, on the 
other hand, are the entire width of 
Yale College away from the gym. 

But the architects concluded, and 
the University concurred, that squash 
courts are an indulgence; and due to 
spatial and budgetary constraints 
they could not be constructed. lt is 
small consolation that the new colleges 
will have a basketball court. 

The other noticeable victims of 
these constraints are the masters' 
houses. They are much smaller and 
less elaborate than the masters' houses 
in the other colleges, a change which 
itself may be beneficial. Morison felt 
that the expensive residences- the homes 
in Morse and Stiles cost $300,000 
each- generate demands on masters 
that keep them from being ordinary 
men, let alone scholars. Kai Erikson 
also approves. In fact, both his first 
floor living room and dining room, 
now open to his college public, are 
not used for strictly family functions. 

The constraints, however, pale 
before the generosity of the $15 
million gift. And John Hay Whitney, 
the key participant in this process, 
was more than merely a silent and 
beneficent donor. Fred Foote says, 
"I can't remember another project 
we've done where we've seen as much 
of the donor." The architects still 
find it hard to forget the sight of 
Whitney's Rolls-Royce pulling up to 
the curb on West 97th Street in Man-
hattan, on the day that Whitney came 
to visit Mitchell/Giurgola. However, 
although Whitney was constantly kept 
up-to-date and personally reviewed 
the evolving plans, he did not inter-
fere in the planning process. Morison 
observes that Whitney "never per-
sonally expressed a preference." 

John Hay Whitney desires an alle-
viation of the overcrowding in the 
residential colleges. But, several sig-
nificant questions remain unanswered, 
and they are questions that will not 
be answered by the physical con-
struction of the new colleges. 

Who will live in these new colleges? 
The answer encompasses broad and 
interrelated issues: student 
housing preferences, and the New 
Haven housing market. These two 
new colleges should be opened, at 
least on an experimental basis, to a 
more equal graduate student-under-
graduate mix (with a greater sprink-
ling of faculty members). Elting 
Morison believes that the proper de-
velopment of the residential college 
system demands such a mix. He was 
impressed by the workability of 
mixing all classes, including freshman, 
in Timothy Dwight College. His extra-
polations convince him that the 
greater diversity achieved via the 
graduate student mix would be 
equally beneficial. 

Yale graduate students have ex-
pressed a strong desire to break their 
isolation, and live together with the 
Yale College population. A poll of 
over 1,000 graduate students con-
ducted by the Graduate Student 
Senate during the spring of 1972 
reveals an interesting set of results: 
50 percent (including married couples) 
indicated they would appreciate the 
opportunity to live in "undergraduate" 
housing; 26 percent listed their first 
preference for housing as a mixture 
of graduate, professional and under-
graduate students; 35 percent expressed 
a strong preference that the new living 
units include members of the New 
Haven community outside of Yale. 

What remains to bar the way to the 
creation of University rather than 
undergraduate colleges? What pre-
vents us from experimenting with 
inducements to include Yale employ-
ees-or even other New Haven residents? 

Another plan for University housing-
one which has conspicuously lacked the 
fanfare of the Mitchell/Giurgola pro-
ject-may become the second part of 
a mixed-use University housing policy. 
Since June, 197 1, a committee headed 
by Alfred Fitt, special assistant to 
President Brewster, has been studying 
the possibilities for more graduate-
professional housing around the Yale 
campus. The commit tee is investi-
gating the possibility of persuading 
commercial developers to build high-
quality, low-rent apartments on 
University land bounded by Chapel 
Street, Howe Street, Park Street, and 
Edgewood Avenue. The apartments, 
which could include another 300 
units, would not be operated by the
(continued on page 14)


**Floor Plans of New Yale Colleges**
**Page number(s): 6**

The architects' floor plans. The Lower 
Level and First floor (below) show the 
"common" places in the colleges. Where 
would you put a squash court? To the 
lower right of these plans and that of the 
Second floor (opposite, top) is the area 
given over to commercial space. Not 
quite another Harvard Square. 

In order to make sense out of the 4th
Fourth and Seventh Floors and the 
Third, Fifth, Sixth, and Eighth Floors 
(opposite, bottom), try stacking them 
in your mind like an architectural Dag-
wood sandwich. Add some provolone 
staircases, and you have an idea of 
how the duplexes (actually triplexes) 
will work. Although taste is always a per-
sonal matter, we don't recommend 
eating your finished product. Why not 
make a real sandwich in one of the new 
kitchens? The plans allow for the storage 
areas adjoining the common or living 
rooms to be turned into kitchens at 
minimum cost. (Ninth floor plans not 
shown here.) 

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
Dining/Activities Area (Lower Level)
lobby
serving area
dining room
dishwashing area
mailboxes
recreation area
dr.unat
music.: room
arts and crafts room
darkroom
storage area
kitchen
staff area
mechanical room
courtyard
commercaal area
parking
r..1ilroad right of way
St. Elmo
Entrance Area (I st Floor)
college living room
ffi..lster's house
fellow·~ residence
loading area
sports area
children's play area
commercial area



**Parchman Penitentiary**
**Author: Bill Ferris**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Parchman Penitentiary stands in the 
heart of the Delta. Until recently farming-
was done with mules driven by white 
and black convicts. Inmates are segre-
gated and one of the largest black camps 
is near the community of Lambert. 

During the summer of 1968 I visited 
the Lambert camp and recorded and 
ftlmed black inmates chopping wood to 
the rhythm of work chants, a tradition 
which originated in West Mrica. From 
five to fifteen men cut wood together 
lifting their axes in unison and chopping 
on the beat of a work chant called by a 
leader who faced them. Verses of the 
chant spoke of escape from Parchman by 
swimming the Sunflower River to con-
fuse the trailing bloodhounds, of hoes 
returned to the "Captain" and refusal to 
work, and of a beautiful woman named 
"Rosie" who was waiting outside the 
camp for her man. 

In Parchman, as in other parts of the 
Delta, nicknames are the only names by 
which a person is known. These nick-
names usually reflect either personality 
or physical characteristics. The follow-
ing conversation is with a former Parch-
man inmate called "Have Mercy" who 
received his nickname when he pro-
tested the beating another prisoner 
received. 

Have Mercy described an incident 
which involved a prison trustee nick-
named "Old Timer" or "Timer" because 
he was in his nineties. His account 
describes what convicts call the "innee 
world" of Parchman Penitentiary: a 
world of fear in which only the strong 
and intelligent survive. Like the trick-
ster rabbit, the black man had to move 
and think faster than his white boss. 
Because he was a "high roller" and hoed 
weeds from [chopped] cotton as fast as 
most men could walk, Have Mercy 
gained favor with prison guards and 
escaped the beatings which others 

WJren you wn-e up then on the farm, 
wlult would they /unle you doinK out 
there? 
Chopping cotton. Picking cotton. 
Pulling stalks. Ditching. Cutting down 
trees in the woods. Ufting up and 
toting logs. All that kind of stuff. We 
would have a log about that high [eisht 
feet]. Be as long as from here to the 
door there. Have six mens with hand 
sticks. Just like me and James here. 
He'd tote right hand and I'd tote left. 
And then the man is up there walking, 
up on the log. He weighed two-hundred 
and fifty now. He'd say "Better n~t drop 
this log and hurt me. Better not drop 
me." 

WJren would they get you up in the 
morning? 
Three-o'clock. Eat breakfast at the 
long table, and at three-thirty we'd be 
setting on the end [of the field) waiting 
till it got light enough to see and work. 
Cold, ooo wee! That's what be the 
matter with my foots. My hands, some-
times they just aches all across there, 
you know, from cold. I couldn't 
straighten my hand out no straighter 
than that. 

Now we pulled up the cotton stalks 
ahead of the folks that was breaking up 
ground. Every man pulled up cotton 
stalks and piled them in his own middle 
from end to end. And the half-trustees 
come along behind us and burn them up 
out of the plow hand's way. They would 
be breaking up ground. Four mules and 
a great big old plow. They called it a 
"road plow", a "sand buster" with four 
mules to it. Just git right up in the top 
of that row and split that middle of 
that row, you know. Four mules pulling. 

When would you come home from 
work in the evening? 
When it was night. Summer, winter, 
and fall and spring. 

How long were you up there, Have 
Mercy? 
Seven years. 

Why did they send you up there? 
Well, just following bad company. 
Ain't did nothing. A gang of us was 
gambling in old juke houses, you know. 
Ain't nobody staying in them. Just old 
houses where we'd meet to gamble. 
Every Saturday night, why we'd meet 
there and git to shooting dice. I ain't 
did nothing. 

The gang (was with, they shot about 
three or four games, and I was with them. 
If you followed a gang of people, it makes 
no difference about whether you did 
something or: no. If they do something 
and you with them, why you in the 
blame too. Right? Somebody got 
killed and th.ree got wounded. I couldn't 
git outta there. I was in it, but I hadn't 
did nar' shoL 

Did the women up at Parchman work 
ill the fields too? 
No sir. The women, they hoed the 
vegetable fann and made them stripes 
what we wore. You see when them 
stripes come in there, they shipped them 
in rolls of cloth. And them hard row · 
women made six suits a day, and them 
"legs .. made three. You know what a 
.,eg" is? He way behind. He can't work 
much. When we be chopping cotton, the 
leg be way behind. All them hindest 
folks. why we called them legs. They the 
same way about picking cotton, pulling 
stalks. chopping cotton, or doing any-
thing. 

Them "high rollers" that git up 
through the iaeld, weU I was one of them. 
Yeah, Boy. I c~ld chop cotton as fast 
as I could trot along the road. I didn't 
care about the grass. I hit that grass and 
(was] gone. Leave that stand [of cotton] 
and not stop walking. 

And they had a lots of them up there 
was supposed to have been higher roUers 
than me. But when they got in that 
grass, by the time they git as far from 
the end as from here to the store, I was 
at the other end. They said "Now what 
kind of lick is that nigger got? Ooo wee, 
he gone. Great goodness alive." 

I'd be trying to stay out the way of 
that man. I said "White Folks, when you 
git to throwing that leather, my foots 
git as light under the bottom as a piece 
of paper. I wonder when is my time? .. 
He say "I ain't gonner bother you. 
You's a high roller." 


I be knowing that, but I still clown, 
you know. If I see his shoes unlaced, I 
run there and jump on my knees and 
lace'em up. If I see them nasty on the 
toe, I git my old rag out of my pocket 
and wipe them off for him. All that's to 
make it. You got to do all that. Act the 
fool. You got to act the fool. You in 
the penitentiary. You got to act the fool 
to make it easy on you. They'll look at 
you and say "Now you know he want to 
make it. He's a good worker and then he 
clow.ns too. We ain't gonner bother him". 

And it was another thing I could do. 
They had about three or four handmade 
guitars. I could play one of them And 
I'd git somebody else to play it and I'd 
dance by it. I can dance, you know. 
I can do the buck dance. If you pl~ the 
music, I'll know it when you play it. 
I'd rather buck dance than eat a ball of 
onions. 

Mrat is your real name? 
My real 
name js Johnny Lee Thomas. 
My home is Arcola, Mississippi. 

Why do they call you Have Mercy? 
In the penitentiary, in Parchman, they 
was beating a man to death one day, and 
this very man had been chopping cotton. 
He told them "Just spare life. Here's the 
grass and here's the cotton. You can beat 
me to death, but that's all I can do. I 
can't do no more." 

And the sun was beating down, and I 
say .. Looka here. Don't you hear the 
man say 'Spare life' and he doing all he 
" 
can? There's more work days than one. 
Have mercy on that man and let him up 
from there. Don't hit him another lick." 

· And they started to calling me that 
over there in the penitentiary. "Have 
Mercy." I went there in twenty-nine. 
I left in thirty-seven. I got the name 
there and it followed me on out here. 
"Have Mercy.'' 

What else happened in the 
penitentiluy? 
They beat you half to death, but they 
give you plenty to eat. They give you 
a'plenty, but it was half-cooked. They 
fed us good when folks come on the 
Fourth of July, and Thanksgiving, and 
Ouistrnas. And after that they fed us 
like a gang of dogs. That's right. I was up 
there a gang of years. 

And at that time anybody whipped 
you. It was two drivers at every camp, 
and a sergeant and a night watchman. 
But they tell me now that don't nobody 
whip but the sergeant, and you have to 
do a mighty bad crime for him to whip 
you. 

But at that time they'd hit you just 
as long as they felt like raising up their 
·arm. Course me, I never did git marked 
up, or scarred up cause I could chop 
cotton as fast as you could walk along 
the road. If you caught the cage, you 
lcnow what I mean, the cage you stay in 
in the camp during the day if you didn't 
work. If you take what they gived you, 
why you was welcome to stay in there. 
Course me, myself, I never was sick. lf 
you took a quart of castor oil and a pint 
of Epsom salts you could stay in there. 
Now who wanted all that? You didn't 
need all of it. I'm glad I never was sick. 
I never was a trustee, and I never was 
half-trustee. They kept me straight up a 
line (in the field] . 

Mrat would they do when they 
beat you? 
They wouldn't do nothing, but had 
some kind of grease there they'd grease 
them up with and go to work the next 
·day like they ain't hit you nar' a lick. 

How would they betzt you? 
Well they pull your breetches down. 
And that strap was that wide, that tltick, 
and that long with the handle. And that 
leather is loaded. The leather, you see is 
loaded. They have something in there 
that cut your flesh up. It mark you up. 
They didn't have to hit you all that hard 
with it. It't a certain way they hit you. 
They have a man on your head, and they 
have you flat on your stomach and a man 
on each arm, and a man on each leg. You 
can't do nothing but lay there. He gonner 
hit you seventy-five or eighty licks. And 
some of them, when they let them up, the 
clothes would stick to their flesh. I 
knowed a many a man had to wear 
padding 'tween his clothes to set down. 
All back there was just raw. In other 
words it was like that when I was there. 
But I wasn't marked up cause I could 
get on out the way. But there's a whole 
lot of them that's out here today that's 
marked up. But you gonner work right 
on. I don't care if you is marked. 

And them guards. At that time here 
is the way they guarded you. It was like 
that, with their hand on the trigger. Just 
like over here is "my catch." Over here 
is yours, and over there is yours. If a man 
jump and come this way, I supposed to 
stop him. But if you see l can't git him, 
why ain't no harm for you to take a 
couple of cracks at him. 

But that guard- 1 don't know. I never 
was a trustee-but that guard worked as 
hard as me, because he's all the time 
looking. His eyes is in a strain all day. 
He don't know who gonner try to git 
away. Them scoundrels will try you to 
see can you shoot. It was a old man up 
there. He was ninety-eight years old, a 
old timer. He'd been there since nineteen 
hundred. I wadn't even in the world in 
nineteen hundred. I had done picked 
him out and said '1ltat old man can't 
shoot. rm shore gonner run over him." 
l thought that, but I wanted somebody 
else to try it. If they'd git away, then 
it'd be my time. Well, a good friend of 
mine, I loved that boy, his wife said "Well, 
John Thomas, l done all I could for you. 
I didn't know you had 'natural life."' 

See "natural life" is longer than a 
lifetime [sentence) . A lifetime is just a 
hundred years. But natural life mean 
that if you stay two or three hundred 
years, you still ain't served your time. 
And the governor, he don't give no pardon 
for natural life. Well he had that kind of 
time. and she didn't know it. She was 
waiting to try and git him a pardon. 
She thought he had lifetime. So after she 
found that he had natural life, she wrote


**Money doesn't grow on Trees**
**Author: Susan J. Friedman**
**Page number(s): 11-12**

Money 
doe$n't 
grow 
on 
Tree$ 
by Susan J. Friedman 
Along about third grade, perhaps because 
then I- started getting an allowance, or 
perhaps simply because some section of 
my babybrain became eager for that par-
ticular form of mastery, it became incum-
bent upon me to determine the financial 
situation of the world. Money, I per-
ceived, was beauty, and beauty money. 
My allowance, 25 preinflation cents a 
week, taught me not only did I not need 
anything, but I hardly even wanted any-
thing, except candy. So every Saturday 
morning Linda and I took Bus No. 21 
downtown, where we proceeded to gorge 
our fat little cheeks with Milky Ways 
from Grant's and chocolate doughnuts 
from the Cottage Bakery, and little else, 
though we spent a lot of time looking at 
things like paperback books and lipstick 
and spent hours trying on rings for under 
$1.00 while the saleswoman glowered 
because we never bought anything: they 
were too cheap. We knew, already, that 
Grant's was tacky. 

There were certain entire economic 
spheres in which it never occurred to me 
to spend my money, spheres exclusively 
inhabited by the grownups: clothing, 
food, shelter, medical care, i.e .. anything 
over $2.50. Those things, like coats and 
shoes and chemistry sets and perfume-
making kits and watercolors, I just asked 
for. Or else they appeared spontane-
ously: "I'll pick you up after school and 
we'll go get shoes," my mother would 
say; or she would leave five dresses on my 
bed and I would select what I wanted. 
Or I would ask for a wood burning kit and 
it would appear. Certainly I am not com-
plaining about this; I had everything my 
babybrain could think of, plus the 
essentials. However, it left me in the 
situation of having a purely discretionary 
income, and very little discretion, and 
even less to buy. Not understanding that 
money might be spent on articles in the 
real world, I began to save up the quarters 
and later the half-dollars in a shoebox 
which I'd cut a slit in, subliminally con-
scious that I would spend this on some-
thing unknown to me but which would 
bring me happiness, and if I waited long 
enough, I would figure out what to buy. 
So I waited, and after a while, especially 
since I got birthday money and Ch_ilnukah 
gelt from my grandparents, when one of 
my parents would see into the box, they 
would say, "You have more money than 
God." I probably did. I was indepen-
dently wealthy at the age of eight. 

All these hints about God's money, 
added to my ~elief that money was 
spent on unknown things which brought 
great joy, made it abundantly clear that 
money was ethereal, if not actually re-
ligious. After all, hadn't I heard the 
story of worshipping the golden calf and 
completely missed the point and thought 
that was the most beautiful object in the 
Bible? Didn't God have money? I knew 
then that money was beauty. 

"Do you think that money grows on 
trees?" my parents would ask when I 
flew in on the wings of a new request: 
crayons, a campus jacket, a cinch belt. 
Yes, my dear mama and papa, I do 
(though I was polite enough not to con-
tradict them openly). That's exactly 
where it grows, and I know because of 
the Twelve Dancing Princesses who 
slipped through a secret trap door in 
their bedroom every night and went out 
to dance with twelve handsome princes, 
on their secret, enchanted journey pass-
ing through forests where, first, all the 
trees were of crystal, then, all of gold, 
then there were emerald leaves tinkling, 
and silver, and ruby, and I thought I 
would die from the beauty of it all, the 
illumined jeweled trees and the lovely 
princesses in their full velvet gowns. 

The horrible part of the story comes 
at the end when the princesses are found 
out and prevented from going back. 
Their father, the king, noticing their worn-
out slippers each morning, had offered 
the hand (and that's not all) of any 
princess to any man who could pene-
trate the mystery. And of course, after the 
routine beheadings of the few who 
failed, a fair prince did come along who 
wrecked the whole thing by spying on 
them from behind his invisible cloak (my 
first inkling that men were tricky). It 
ends with a wedding which they said was 
splendid, but of course didn't compare 
with the beauty, and the freedom, of 
the underground kingdom, from which 
the daughters had been snatched, twelve 
Persephones ripped from the rich earth. 

It was a miserable ending, the women 
were routed, but the first half was my 
first hint at the pleasures of a matriarchy, 
in which, logically, money did grow on 
trees. Logically, because in the real world 
patriarchy, i.e .. where the men had ftrst 
dibs on everything and went out all day 
to make adultmoney, money did not 
grow on trees. In fact, in the real world, 
I couldn't even spend my money. 

Despite the risk of capture by a spying 
prince, and in defiance of all those 
emperors, obviously without clothes, who 
said that money did not grow on trees, 
when I knew it did and if only they 
wouldn't be so literal and mundane 
they'd know it too, and out of some 
urge to restore the pnncesses, and my-
self, to the lost joys of the matriarchy, 
I became a Queen. 

Every Saturday aftetnoon, haviug 
wiped the chocolate off our faces and 
reboarded the No. 21 Bus, Linda, my 
dearest friend in all the real world, and I 
came back to my house and sat around 
saying, ''What do you wanna do?" 
.. 1 don't know. What do you wanna do?" 
"I don't know. You say." "No, you 
say." Then we'd usually go upstairs into 
the closet and get out my mother's huge 
box of silk scarves. We stripped down to 
our underwear and draped ourselves with 
the scarves, four for each of us: one on 
top, one on the bottom, one for a head-
dress, and one as a shawl. Then we put 
on as much of my mother's jewelry as we 
could support, and other assorted ban-
gles, belts, gloves, high heels. Down-
stairs in the closet was a dark, carved 
cane which we took turns carrying as a 
scepter. The other one had to use a 
yardstick. Both Queens, we led one 
another on tours of our respective 
palaces. One week Linda would get the 
dining room and I the living room, we 
divided it up somehow, and then I would 
start leading her from corner to corner, 
as I had seen my mother do after we 
moved into the new house, saying in my 
best Queen voice (which was actually a 
Hermione Gingold voice), "Your Highness, 
look at this solid gold ashtray which cost 
$5000. And over here, you will see the 
emerald cat which cost a million dollars." 
"Well, in my palace we have one which 
cost two million dollars.·' 
"Yah, but my palace has solid diamond 
windows." 
"Well, mine has solid gold floors, 
Your Highness." 
"Your Highness, look at my solid 
silver lamp with ruby decorations which 
cost seven million dollars." 
"Well, I have a crystal chandelier with 
diamond lightbulbs which cost fifteen 
million hundred thousand dollars, 
Your Lowness." 

The game never lasted very long, since 
we bedazzled each other to the point of 
mordant jealousy. Sometimes we got so 
angry that Linda would threaten to go 
home, and we would run outside on the 
(emerald) lawn screaming, "Go home, 
Your Lowness" and "Shutup, Your 
Stupidness," racing around in our scarves 
and undershirts and headdresses. That 
was always the end, the crumbling of the 
kingdoms in anger and envy: but at 
least we could do it every week, and 
neither one of us got snatched and mar-
ried off to any sneaky prince. Nor did 
any emperor convince me that money 
did not grow on trees, did not transmog-
rify into beauty incarnate: solid gold 
ashtrays and emerald leaves. ln my 
kingdom, it did. 

That's what was so queer about the 
Yerows who lived up the street and were 
the richest people I knew. They prac-
tically lived in a mansion, and they owned 
racehorses and an Alaskan husky named 
Boris, though no swimming pool. Once I 
asked my mother how rich the Yerows 
were and she said, "WeU, their pockets 
are deeper than ours." But there were 
too many dark wrong things always hap-
pening up there, and I was profoundly 
confused because money was beauty and 
joy. Mrs. Yerow was never home, and 
when she was she was always yelling at 
Carl not to put so much salt on his food 


--- Page 12 ---

or he'd die young; and Mr. Yerow was 
never home either, never; and the maid 
was surly; and once on my way home 
Boris got out of his cage and bit the arm 
off my snowsuit; and one night when I 
was supposed to sleep over there with 
Barbara I got so homesick that my 
parents carried me home in a blanket, and 
I never went back to sleep or even stayed 
very long. Sometimes it was fun, like 
when Barbara and 1 played Giant Step in 
the living room, or when we had the 
Sunday Club at her grandfather's and ate 
breakfast there every week, but even that 
turned bad when he was mean to me 
once and said that Carl should get some-
thing that I wanted because Carl was a 
boy and his grandson. So I didn't go back. 

I think the Yerows were the second 
half of the story, where the princesses 
are defeated and everyone, except the 
king and prince, loses. The Yerows were 
a patriarchy full of mean dogs and mean 
grandfathers and absent fathers who had 
affairs with women and odd brothers who 
took too much of salt and things I wanted, 
and even a surly Cinderella maid who 
always made Carl's sandwich first for 
lunch. Someone had expelled the Yerow~ 
from the beautiful kingdom, and I had 
some idea who it was, but I was too 
polite to say anything. 

As my shoebox treasury of grace grew 
in magical power, and as I became more 
certain that someday I would indeed 
think of something to buy with it, I also 
became more firmly convinced that this 
thing would be the likes of an emerald 
leaf: pure beauty, pure good. 

Other people, especially my grand-
parents, dealt badly, far too grossly with 
money. For "saying a piece," we would 
get a pair of mittens or a measly nickel. 
"Saying a piece" consisted of reciting a 
poem, singing a song, or telling a joke in 
front of the assembled grownups. And 
as the instant trios of cousins finished a 
spinechilling rendition of "Rock of Ages" 
or as one wheeled heavily off the end of 
an arabesque, they gave us the mittens 
and a kiss while the adults, the aunts and 
uncles, applauded and laughed and said, 
"she looks like a dog at a hydrant." If 
your piece was especially good, though 
no one knew what her criteria for good 
actuaJiy were, Nana would cup her hands 
over her mouth and show you, and you 
alone, her false teeth. She'd unthwack 
them from her gums and eject them with 
her tongue, then, finding us suitable terri-
fied, she clicked them back in and up, 
thwack! That was the single most pecu-
liar gift I ever received, and 1 thought it 
awesome, stupendously unbeautiful. As 
earthly as a mouth. And once, at our 
house, my grandfather told me that if I 
didn't talk at all during supper he would 
give me a silver dollar. I didn't, and he 
did. But thinking about it afterwards, I 
thought he was one very cruel king, who, 
taking pleasure from his cruelty, rein-
forced my own beliefs about men, who 
were fools about beautymoney if good 
with adultmoney, and about women, who 
inhabited the crystal forests of beauty-
money. Until they were caught. 

When I was younger, around five, I had 
still thought that men knew about beauty-
money. My father had brought me a 
solid chocolate apple, and that was surely 
pure goodness. In fact, it was my mother 
who forbade me to eat it all at once and 
kept me to one section a day. Thought I: 
the father giveth and the mother taketh 
away. But as my wisdom in these matters 
increased, I realized that I had been mis-
taken: it is the men who taketh away and 
are dumb. Though I should say that I had 
serious doubts about my mother, and 
hence, of all women, except me and Linda 
and other princesses I knew existed, be-
cause although my mother never, for 
example, stopped us from playing Queen, 
and never said anything which indicated 
she didn't believe in the kingdom of 
beautymoney, she also disappointed me 
by saying such things as, ''Why don't you 
think of something to spend your money 
on and get it?" When it was clear that I 
hadn't found the article yet, and could 
not be content to spend the shoebox on 
something so sublunary as a game or 
a toy. 

Yet the things which I did finally spend 
the money on were things my mother 
understood, which was reassuring. She 
certainly understood, even if she most 
ta.rtly disapproved, 
the black and red 
lace bikini underpants I brought home 
one Saturday on the No. 21 Bus. Unda 
got a pair too. And she understood, and 
encouraged, when I decided to buy a 
misty landscape by a Japanese artist. 
She even paid to have it framed. I can 
look at it from the typewriter and ima.-
gine Japanese princesses walking through 
it, though they're not actually painted in. 
But then, they wouldn't be, since the 
artist was a man. And my mother even 
understood, despite some feeling of 
jealousy at first, when 1. decided to quit 
teaching in the most Stygian of high 
schools and use money to support the 
writing of stories about money growing 
on trees and dancing princesses. For now 
writing is the beautymoney, the puregood; 
the stories all come from the same magi-
cal kingdom out of my sometimes shaky 
matriarchy. Shaky because sometimes I 
get very afraid that I am being indulged-
1 am, for now at least, living on money 
earned by my father, for even if it has 
been entrusted to me, I still profoundly 
question whether I can create puregood 
and beautymoney out of, and living on, 
adultmoney which adamantly scoffs at 
growing on trees. 

I think it is a moral question. If men 
refuse the kingdom of silver trees, how 
can I justify using men's adultmoney to 
help me reenter that kingdom? Is that 
not dishonest? 

But then I think of what that king did 
to those princesses, and realize that it is a 
war and a matter of consequence; that it 
is the war my grandfather was winning 
when he paid me to stop talking or the 
war Carl Yerow won when his grand-
father favored him over me. So I think: 
if this is a real war, then I have every 
right to fight in it and every right to take 
the money and run to erect whatever 
kingdom I believe in, and it doesn't make 
any difference if they keep telling me 
that I should get married already and 
settle down, or that I should use makeup 
and wear a bra, or that money does not 
grow on trees. It's either them or me, 
their place or mine. And it's going to be 
my place, where the money transformed 
itself into trees twenty years ago and it's 
just a matter of telling enough people 
about it now so that they'll support me 
when I say we belong down there in the 
earth with the jeweled landscape and the 
princes who are handsome, but who can't 
keep us from going home when we want 
to, and can't make us get married or put 
us in bondage or convince us that money 
doesn't grow on trees. 

The men used trickery to punish the 
princesses. The princesses used stealth to 
enter the magical kingdom. If it's a moral 
question, then the princesses win. • 
SUsan Friedman is a writer living in 
New Haven. This essay is a chapter 
from a book which she is presently 
writing. 
·II 
The New Journal 125 January 1973112 



**Title: The New Journall25 January 1973**
**Author: Steve Weisman**
**Page number(s): 13-14**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
{continued from page 2) 
how too strange, too formal, too loud to 
pass for permanent members of the Yale 
community. In my mind, I fancied them 
to be the interlopers. 

What torture to be an alumnus! ln two 
days of conferences in the Law School 
Auditorium and Harkness Hall, the Uni-
versity tried its hardest to make us feel 
welcome. But each time Kingman 
Brewster told us how important we were, 
I felt more and more like an outsider. 

After an arm's-length welcome to the 250 
representatives in the A Y A gathering that 
week- arm's-length because some of the 
alumni cherished their independence-
Brewster assured us that the University 
was to be ultimately "accountable" to 
the 80,000 alumni we represented. 

" Accountabiltiy" was "not just a slick 
word," he said. On the other hand, did 
the alumni want the students to be 
polled each time the University was to 
make a decision? Of course not. Then 
we could see, Brewster's speech implied, 
why it was important not to poll the 
alumni each time, either. So if we could 
just hold off on our demands, then Brew-
ster would find it easier to deal with the 
crazy demands of the students, who of 
course, we all know, are selfish and 
irrational. 

When I was a callow student, demand-
ing immediate curriculum and grade re-
form, not to mention coeducation, the 
great grey mass of alumni was always 
held up by our allies on the faculty as the 
biggest impediment to action. It all 
seemed so logical. There the alumni were, 
like the Republican Party preventing 
President Kennedy from moving to recog-
nize Red China. They were what told 
us to go slow. Now, at Yale, the alumni were 
being told the same thing about the stu-
dents. And who to refute it? The Uni-
versity, the alumni know, is in a constant 
state of turmoil these days. I don't be-
lieve all those reports of "eerie tranquility." 

Brewster was introduced at the first meet-
ing by someone who portrayed him as the 
beleaguered, embattled chief executive, 
residing in a tinderbox, surrounded by a 
volatile mix of students and faculty. 

I must hastily add that this was my 
own view, prejudiced perhaps by years of 
watching Brewster's attempt to furnish 
something for everyone in all the de-
cisions he had to make. To be fair to 
Brewster, moreover, nowhere did he do 
this as explicitly as Michael Galligan-
junior faculty member, .. architect" of 
Yale's university council system and self-
appointed gadfly to the alumni- who did 
it inadvertently. Galligan lectured us two 
or three times, l recall, each time with a 
condescension that most people found 
both annoying and amusing. Galligan 
pouted at one point that if the alumni 
failed to endorse and increase in the num-
ber of women at Yale, students would 
become further alienated from their 
elders, and possibly even destructive. 

Compared to Brewster, Galligan was the 
infant who threatened to hold his breath 
and turn blue- Old Blue-if he didn't get 
his way. 

Brewster, by contrast, is one of aca-
demia's most gifted administrators. 

And in a larger sense, he is doing more 
than just a sellingjob. He is trying to 
encompass different constituencies that, 
while they have a lot in common, have a 
lot in conflict as well. The constant 
letters we get from Class Secretaries, Class 
Agents, Class Treasurers, and Yale offi-
cials, are testimony to the University's 
need for us, maligned (and self-maligned) 
though we are. 

Yale's first goal, of course, is to con-
vince us that any differences the Univer-
sity and its alumni have are mere out-
growths of the "failure to communicate." 
In his discussion of admissions policy, for 
example, Sam Chauncey told the A Y A 
that the chief shortcoming in the past had 
been one of "lousy public relations," 
which, Chauncey must know himself, is 
not really a shortcoming at all. 

Nonetheless, the very creation of the 
A Y A rests on the goal of greater commu-
nications. And communications, in turn, 
hinge on the importance Yale alumni 
attach to being alumni. 

From my own experience, the alumni's 
attachment varies widely, but not for 
those who go to gatherings like the A Y A 
meeting in New Haven. In our discus-
sions of admissions policies, we all dwelt 
at length on the importance of Yale's role 
in producing America's leaders. Every 
change in admissions policies was argued 
in this context. Yale ought to admit 
more women, more blacks, more chi-
canos, etc., precisely because these 
groups ought to have their share of Yale 
alumni to lead them, too. In all the de-
bates, there was little mention of educa-
tion for its own sake, and it occurred to 
me that perhaps it was this fact that most 
of all separates the alumni from the stu-
dents in New Haven. 

The alumni at the A Y A were those 
"leaders of men" types that are easy to 
make fun of. But if they view things at 
Yale from a different perspective, so be 
it. It was Clark Kerr, president of 
Berkeley during the Free Speech Movt.-
ment, Brewster reminded us, who said 
that the University can take care of 
everything by offering this simple pre-
scription: sex for the students, football 
for the alumni, and parking for the faculty. 
The virtue of that remark is that it brings 
students and faculty in on the joke, and 
that is just as well. Maybe one day the 
New Yorker will catch up with them, too.


**Title: You can't beat this Sony·Miracord·Advent -system. $499**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
You can't beat this 
Sony·Miracord·Advent 
-system. $499. 
If you're interested in exceptional clarity 
and faithfulness of reproduction at moderate but 
satisfying volumes, our $499 SONY-MI RACORD-
ADVENT system is for you. 
When the Advent speaker first 
appeared on the market a few years ago it 
revolutionized the industry by out-performing ma-
ny speakers twice the price. It has since become a 
classic and remains one of the most colorless, 
linear, and well-balanced speakers at any price. It 
utilizes a 12-inch felted cone woofer and a unique 
dome and rolled ring molded tweeter in an acoustic 
suspension designed to reproduce the entire music-
al spectrum, from the lowest notes you can hear all 
the way up to 20,000 hz. 

The Sony 6045 receiver has enough 
clean, crisp power to easily drive the Advents to 
satisfying levels in a medium-sized room, while 
keeping IM and harmonic distortion well below 
5%. The tuner section is highly sensitive and 
selective and will pull in even weak and distant 
stations with suprising clarity. The Elac-Miracord 
625 changer has the famous pushbutton operation 
that makes it the easiest-to-operate of automatic 
turntables. It uses a four-pole asynchronous motor 
to maintain constant speed despite variations in 
line voltage. Rumble is inaudible and wow and 
flutter are down to .07 and .03%. We have chosen 
the ADC-250XE cartridge, whose low mass and flat 
response allows you to get all the music out of 
your records and keep distortion down to a 
minimum. 

216 West Main Street. Avon 
678-1797 
1533 State Street, New Haven 787-0183 
136 Partt Street, New Haven 
n&-5600 

