Publication date: March 2, 1990
Volume: 22
Issue number: 5

**MASTHEAD:**
- None present in provided text


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
Letters
NewsJournal
Between the Vines
Features
Lonely Crusatk ... Concerned Cameras ... Museum Icon
The Mudthirsty Crowd - Jamie Workman
Rules of the Game - Samantha Power
Harry Gets Some Play - Josh Pilw
Essays
Afterthought
Split Visions and Haunted Memories - Adriel Alston and Dan Gerwin
Name Dropping - David Greenberg


**Title: The Mudthirsty Crowd**
**Author: Jamie Workman**
**Page number(s): 14**

At the New Haven Coliseum, a Tractor Pull and Monster Truck Exhibition thrilled crowds with 
mud, fret and g«JTs. The auJJwr arguM tlulJ these events follow in a dramaJic tradition dating from 
the Greeks. By Jamie Workman.


**Title: Rules of the Game**
**Author: Samantha Power**
**Page number(s): 18**

Bulldog a.thJetes find that academics cqmpete with their pro ambitions. 7ne sports program at Yale 
both hinders and helps plllyers in their quest for spots in the professional ranks. 
By Samantha Power.


**Title: Harry Gets Some Play**
**Author: Josh Pilw**

In 1969 Film Studies Professor Michael Roemer directed a corntdy and nobody lllughed. Now, 
after sitting on the shelf for 20 years, The Plot Against Harry luzs opened to rave reviews and 
itWigoraled Roemer's filmmaking career. By josh Plllw.


**Title: Split Visions and Haunted Memories**
**Author: Adriel Alston and Dan Gerwin**
**Page number(s): 24**

Abdul A lim Mulwmmad's rtcent speech at the Law School focustd attention on the rellltionship 
between blllcks and jews. RepresenJatioes cif these cqmmunities on campus exp/Qre the causes cif 
tension between the two groups. By Adriel Alston and Dan Gerwin.


**Title: Name Dropping**
**Author: David Greenberg**
**Page number(s): 29**

Ever confuse presidemial candidates George Wallact and Henry Wallllce? Authors George Sand 
and George Eliot? You are not alrme. By David Greenberg.


**Title: Letters to the Editor**
**Author: John Hersey, Stanley Flink**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
To the Editor, 
The May Day issue stirred up in me 
what I guess fd have to call a nostalgia 
for those weird but also exciting days. 
There were a few minor errors, such 
as Mark Ribbing's suggesting that it 
was the students who decided to 
"liberate" their colleges and open them 
up to the visiting radicals. 
David 
G reenberg set the record straight on 
that- though there is a curious stamp 
of thinking of the '80s in his saying that 
back in those '60s Brewster was "always 
cultivating the image of approach-
ability." 
The stress on image-making came 
into play with the TV commercials and 
the "media spins" and the photo-ops of 
much later politics. The fact was 
simpler: Brewster was approachable, 
he didn't care whether he looked that 
way. He showed up night after night in 
college common rooms to talk things 
out with students. He was at the other 
end of the stick from Benno. 

I think Sam Chauncey may have 
misled Greenberg a bit about the 
opposition of the masters to opening 
the colleges. There were two Masters 
who seemed to be scared shitless, but 
in the Council of Masters before May 
Day, the suggestion for opening up the 
gates and welcoming the outsiders 
actually came first from one of the 
Masters, Elias Clark, and all the rest 
but those two supported his idea, 
which Brewster then took up and 
carried through 
with 
his usual 
panache. 

I loved Ruth Conniffs piece on 
Trudeau. Is it her father who took the 
cover picture? 
Anyway, congratulations. The 
project was very much worth doing. 
Good to get your contemporaries to 
think about those strange, earnest, 
caring days. 
John Hersey 
Yale College '36 
Master, Pierson College, 1965-1970 
May Day photographer Richard Conniff is 
the editor's uncle and a former editor-in-chief 
ojTNJ. -Ed. 


You have assembled an impressive 
collection of pieces for the New 
Journal's retrospective on May Day, 
1970. 
I 
have 
listened to 
many 
recollections, 
and 
read 
packing 
boxloads of memorabilia, 
letters, 
documents-dealing with the multi-
layered ironic "scraps of history." 
hope one day a 
thoughtful, 
in formed book will be done on the 
Brewster years, collecting the scraps 
into a continuity and a perspective. 
The quality of writing and editing of 
The New journal speaks well of a Yale 
education. 
Hurrah for you. 
Stanley Flink 
Yale College '45W


**Title: Congratulations**
**Author: David King, Ruth Conniff**

Congratulations 
The New journal is pleased to announce 
the election of Lisa Silverman as 
publisher and Motoko Rich as editor-
in-chief, effective today. Lisa joined 
the magazine in 1989 and has served as 
production manager this year. 
Motoko joined the magazine in 1988 
and has served as managing editor for 
the past year. Lisa and Motoko will 
continue the leadership of Publisher 
David King and Editor-in-Chief Ruth 
Conniff. 
Three additional members of TNJs 
new Executive Board will also assume 
their offices today: Managing Editors 
Ellen Katz and Josh Plaut and Photo-
graphy Editor Jennifer Pitts. Together 
with the outgoing Executive Board 
they produced this issue and are now 
planning their first issue, which will 
appear in April. We congratulate them . 
and wish them the best of luck. 
Publisher 
David K ing 
Editor-in-Chief Ruth Conniff 
Managing Editors 
David Greenberg 
Motoko Rich 
Business Manager Jerry Hwang 
Desi'gner 
Stephen Hooper 
Production Manager 
Lisa Silverman 
Photography Editor John Kim 
Associate Editors 
Ellen Katz• 
Josh Plaut• 
Associate Photography Editor 
Jennifer Pitts 
Associate Designer 
Ethan Cohen 
Subscription Manager 
Adrienne Lo 
Sill if 
Andrea Assarat 
Arthur Bradford 
Eric Fisher 
Matthew Fleischer 
Hank Hsu 
"<l«ttd Marclo 2, 1990 
Kevin Klein 
E. Stewart Moritz 
Milena Novy• 
Pam Sturner 
J arnie Workman' 
Munbers and Dir~dors: Edward B. Bennett Ill • 
Constance Clement • Peter B. Cooper • Andy 
Court • Brooks Kelley • Michelle Press • Fred 
Strebeigh • Thomas Strong 
Frimds: Anson M. Beard, Jr. • Edward B. 
Bennett, Jr. • Edward B. Bennett Ill • Blaire 
Bennett • Gerald Bruck • Jonathan M. Clark • 
Louise F. Cooper • James W . Cooper • Peter B. 
Cooper • J erry and Rae Court • David Freeman 
• Geoffry Fried • Sherwin Goldman • John 
Hersey • Brooks Kelley • Roger Kirwood • 
Andrew J . Kuzneski,Jr. • Lewis E. Lehrman • 
E. Nobles Lowe • Peter Neill • Julie Peters • 
Fairfax C. Randall • Nicholas X . Rizopoulos • 
Arleen and Arthur Sager • Dick and Debbie 
Sears • Richard Shields • Thomas Strong • 
Elizabeth Tate • Alex and Betsy Torello • Allen 
and Sarah Wardwell • Peter Yeager • Daniel 
Yergin 
(Volume 22. Number 5) 1M Nn» J ... -' is published tix timet 
during the ochool year by Tbc New Journal at Yale, Inc., p.., 
Ofrtee BoJ!. 3432 Yale: Statiocl, New Havu. CT 06520 
Copyroght 1990 by Tho: New Journal at Yale. Inc. AU rit~lm 
~tet"cd . R~production eithft' in whole or in part without wriuco 
~nniu.on o( the publisher and cditoc---lnoo<:tuJ ll prohlb1ted 
Thit magazine u published by Yale Coilqc tludenlt, and Yak 
Uni~naty ._, ntJC rupont!bk for tts c:ontentt 
Eleven thousand copia o( ead> '""" an: duuibuted frtt tO 
members o( tht Yak Uni'--e~ty communtty 
7\r N<W J--' is 1ypc.e1 by tbc Charlton Prato( New Haven. 
CT, and printed by lUre Remin<kr, Inc. o( Rodty Htll, CT 
Bookk«p•nt~ and 
billint~ 
OUYJCeO provided by Colmall 
BooU.«J''"S o( New Haven. CT 
Ofrt« addreoo. lOS Crown Stl"ftt, Offttt 312 
"""-: (203) 432·1957 
Subtcnpc.iocu an avai.lable to thole oullide the Vale commun1ty 
Rates• One yur, $ 12. Two yean. $20 
1W \'NJ /,..,•111 ~n<oura~~~ ku('n rn th~ tdltt)r a.nd U'"~rr'ln~nt ~n 
Ya1-r and N~w Hav~tn ISSU~s . \\'ntf' to Ruth ConntfT, f.dllf)nah. 
1432 Yair Star.on. 
~~""' Havt'n. C r Ob~20 AU kuc" for 
pubhcau('ln muJt mduck addrrs" Jnd "Ut:natun- TN \ttt J.-.,.1 
l't'~rve-" the n~c to «~•• an lettC'ts fur pohhc auon 


**Title: Lonely Mission**
**Author:  No author listed**
**Page number(s): 6**

News Journal 
Lonely Mission 
Jennifer Bryson (GRD '90) doesn't like 
the way a lot of Yale students think. 
Not only do they champion abortion 
rights, but she claims they don't even 
listen to what she wants to tell them. As 
a member of Yale Students for Life, 
Bryson sees herself on a mission to 
convert Yale students to the pro-life 
position. "We really think we can make 
a difference," she said. "Even if we 
can't convince everyone, hopefully we 
can influence future doctors and wo-
men who might face crisis pregancies." 
Yale Students for Life, originally the 
Yale Student Pro-life Coalition, 
adopted its current name in 1987 when 
then-president Kelly Askew (DC '88) 
decided it better reflected the group's 
entire agenda, which includes op-
posing infanticide and euthanasia. 
YSL sponsors films, invites speakers to 
campus, distributes table tents, and 
pickets in front of University Health 
Services to protest the hospital's policy 
of providing free abortions for 
students. Several members volunteer 
at Birth Right, a pro-life counseling 
center which encourages alternatives to 
abortion. 
Vincent Mooney (DC '91), presi-
dent of YSL, believes such counseling 
is 
necessary 
because 
women 
are 
ignorant victims of abortion. "A lot of 
people are just misguided, and don't 
understand what abortion does," he 
said. Once people realize the effects of 
abortion, Mooney is convinced that 
they will come to view it as wrong. 
Kathleen Brady (JE '88, DIY '91), a 
member of YSL, said that she believed 
into her junior year at Yale that 
abortion was acceptable. But when she 
learned about fetal development, she 
aligned 
herself with the 
pro-life 
position. 
Still, YSL members remain a dis-
tinct minority here. Although YSL 
membership has doubled since last 
year-from seven to 15-Students 
6 The New Journal/March 2, 1990 
YSL protesters speak to their following outside UHS. 
Organizing Students, 
an abortion 
rights group established just this year, 
has about 40 active participants. Amy 
Waldman (SY '91), coordinator of 
SOS, claims that the group has 
hundreds of sympathizers throughout 
the campus. At a pro-choice rally on 
Cross Campus last November, 
hundreds of supporters cheered 
speeches by feminist Letty Cottin 
Pogrebin and Congressman Bruce 
Morrison, while YSL's small forces 
hovered behind the crowd, resolutely 
holding up protest signs. 
David Gardey (] E '90) said that 
Yale's pro-choice majority 
inhibits 
student participation in YSL. "I think 
that a lot of the people on campus who 
are pro-life are afraid that there will be 
a backlash against them if they come 
outandstatetheiropinion:hesaid. Gardey, 
a member of the Party of the Right, said 
"Pro-choice forces are as intolerant as 
the rest of the left at Yale." In his · 
previous activities in the Yale Political 
Union he found 
most students 
unreceptive to real disagreement over 
issues. "There's a whole laundry list of 
issues, and if you go outside that 
dogma, a lot of intolerance shows." 
YSL members said they are subject 
to such intolerance frequently. When 
Faye Wattleton, the national director 
of Planned Parenthood, 
spoke at 
Bartell Chapel last month, a group of 
YSL members demonstrated outside. 
A woman grabbed a placard from 
protester Mark Tafoya (SY '93) and 
told him to "fuck off." Mooney learned 
afterwards that Davenport classmates 
assailed his participation in the 
Wattleton protest. "To hear that they 
were speaking harshly of me behind 
my back really hurt me," he said. A 
series of unsigned table tents in the 
HGS dining hall personally attacked 
Bryson for her pro-life views, and 
Mary Habeck (GRD '94) said the 



**Title: The Abortion Debate at Yale**
**Author: Jack Wills**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
group's table tents disappear from 
dining haJJs soon after distribution. 
"It's like there's some mysterious force 
that's afraid to hear what we have to 
say," Bryson said. 

YSL members struggle to be heard. 
They try to appear at any event which 
addresses abortion, 
where 
they 
distribute leaflets elaborating their 
position. "We want students to be 
aware that there are students who are 
pro-life, and hopefully force them to 
seriously reevaluate their opinions on 
abortion," said Bryson. While Mooney 
doubts whether even he can convert 
"hard-core pro-choicers," he maintains 
that protests are vital. "It's a matter of 
shaking everyone up a little, and 
pointing out that it's not a closed case 
at all." 

Pro-choice feminists on campus 
believe the case is clear, and that there 
is no question about the right to 
abortion. Alex Lutz (SY '91), a 
member of SOS, said that feminism 
and a pro-life position are mutually 
exclusive. Women for Life, a subgroup 
of YSL, formed last spring to discuss 
the relationship between feminism and 
the anti-abortion position. Between 
four and six women attend each meet-
ing. "We're interested in looking at the 
pro-life 
issue 
from 
a 
woman's 
perspective," said Brady. "Can you be 
a feminist, a liberated woman, main-
tain some sense of privacy, and still be 
pro-life?" Habeck said Women for Life 
accepts the feminist agenda, with the 
exception of the pro-choice stance. 

Lutz doesn't find the Women for Life 
position valid. "Being a feminist is 
about women having a choice," she 
said. 

Brady claims that views like Lutz's 
hinder YSL's efforts to find support. "I 
think that after a couple of years at this 
place, you really start incorporating 
Yale's liberal attitudes into what you 
think." Many people may arrive here 
opposing abortion, she said, but end 
up joining the pro-choice movement. 

Meanwhile, Bryson keeps talking, 
confident that her message is reaching 
someone. 
-jack Wills


**Title: Concerned Cameras**
**Author: Kathy Reich**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

Last fall, Andrew Wolff(PC '91) heard 
that Hunt Baldwin, head of Yale 
University Pictures, wanted somebody 
to make a movie. A year earlier, a 
student received a grant from the 
chaplain's office to shoot a video about 
poverty in New Haven, but he 
graduated before completing the 
project. Although Wolff had never 
made a documentary before, Baldwin, 
a friend, asked him to finish the 
discontinued work. Wolff accepted, 
enlisting his 
roommate, Dave 
Sampliner (PC '91), and Roy Tsao 
(BR '91), with whom he worked at 
Dwight Hall, to collaborate on the 
project. 

The three 
narrowed the 
documentary's focus. "We knew that 
poverty was too big an issue to get a 
handle on," Wolff said, so he chose the 
smaller, more manageable topic of 
homelessness. "It's such an up-and-
coming problem. New Haven is one of 
the cities in America where the 
problem is the worst." 

For the past three months, 
Sampliner, Tsao and Wolff have 
consulted 
shelter coordinators, 
politicians, journalists and advocates 
for the homeless. The three have 
volunteered at New Haven's newly 
opened Anawim Shelter, visited 
emergency housing motels, and spent 
time in City Hall offices. Mostly, 
though, they have been talking with 
people who have lived on the streets. 
"The filin is going to be homeless 
people themselves talking," Tsao said. 
"Our aim is to give a sector of the 
population that has no voice at all some 
voice in the public sphere." 

Acting on recommendations from 
caseworkers, the students contacted 
both emergency shelter residents and 
formerly homeless people who have 
since found 
permanent 
housing. 
"Before we even take out our camera, 
we talk to them first, then go back 
another time and ftlm them, just 
letting them talk and asking a few 
questions," Tsao said. "It's amazing 
how many of the homeless people we 
interview 
really welcome 
this 
opportunity to speak out." 

The team is not talking directly with 
the homeless people they meet on the 
street. "Interviewing is very 
intrusive by nature," Wolff said. "I just 
don't feel comfortable walking up to 
people with or even without a camera." 
He added that the street environment 
is not conducive to interviews. "It 
would be impractical to film people on 
the street. We're not just interested in 
hearing a couple of sentences. We want· 
to hear about these people's lives." 

While focusing primarily on indi-
viduals, the team also analyzes social 
and political factors that lead to 
homelessness. "It's a problem that is 
very much misunderstood." Tsao said. 
"People 
still 
·believe 
the 
old 
myth of the drunken 
bum. 
And 
there's a 
phenomenal 
amount of 
bureaucratic bullshit that goes 
on-attitude problems, money that's 
spent and wasted, money that's appro-
priated and never spent. People just 
get phenomenally screwed by the 
system." 

So tar, the three have concentrated 
mainly on background research; they 
have only recently begun ft.lming. "At 
the beginning we didn't know the focus 
of the piece, so it was important to 
gather information," Sampliner said. 
They spent two weeks of winter break 
investigating their topic and inter-
viewing experts on homelessness. This 
semester, they have been devoting 15 
hours per week to the project. 

Although Sampliner admitted, "We 
don't have tons of footage," Tsao 
insisted that they will wind up with 
hundreds of hours of videotape, which 
they will edit down to an hour-long 
documentary. They hope to complete 
the film this spring and screen it for the 
Yale and New Haven communities. 
"We want to try to get it either on PBS 
or Channel 8. We have contacts with 
both of them," Wolff said. 

The ftlm remains far from complete, 
but Sampliner 
fmds 
the project 
rewarding. "Before, I had a vague, 
liberal concern about homelessness, 
but I didn't know how to address it," he 
said. "I really enjoy gaining full , 
substantive knowledge about the 
problem." Also, as a result of their 
work at Anawim, the three coor-
dinated a volunteer program for the 
shelter; currently 20 Yale students 
donate time there. "That's something I 
might not have become involved in if it 
hadn't been for the film," Tsao said. 

Because of the volunteer program 
and their work on the documentary, 
the team sees homelessness on a 
personal level, not just as a sound bite 
on the evening news. They hope that 
their fUm wiJI give its viewers the same 
insight. "Homeless people are not just 
a category, they're people, and a vast 
number of them are incredibly per-
ceptive and incredibly astute poli-
tically," Wolff said. 
"It's hard 
sometimes 
for 
Yale 
students 
to 
appreciate that." 
• 
-Kathy Reich


**Title: Museum Icon**
**Author: Eric Meers**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

On the first floor of the Yale Un!versity 
Art Gallery, a small crowd peers at a 
framed blueprint of the building. 
Despite an array of architectural 
sketches, models, and photographs of 
museum designs, many visitors come 
to see the gallery itself. "This is an 
exhibit in which the building is on 
exhibition," said Patricia Cummings 
Loud, author of the current show 
catalogue. Until March 11, YUAG 
will feature the work of Louis I. 
Kahn , 
professor of archi-
tecture from 1947 to 
1957. The 
exhibit coincides with an effort by the 
museum's new management to restore 
the distinctive features Kahn designed 
for the gallery. 

Kahn drafted plans for an addition 
to the art gallery in 1951. On a campus 
noted for buildings in the Collegiate 
Gothic tradition, the expansion was 
the first modem structure at Yale. 
Kahn preferred concrete to marble and 
steel girding to Corinthian columns. 
"Most of the people on the architecture 
staff were modernists and felt that Yale 
should be making a statement in sup-
port of modern art," said Anthony 
Hirschel, assistant to the director of the 
Yale Art Gallery. 

Kahn's design emphasized both 
aesthetic qualities and functional 
elements. He created a system of 
movable walls on springs called "pogo 
panels," which allowed exhibition 
designers to alter room configurations. 
He ran a large concrete shaft through 
all 
the floors of the building, 
unashamedly exposing the workings of 
the museum. Designed to encase the 
stairwell, the 
shaft also houses 
plumbing and electrical fixtures. Low 
ceilings create an unimposing mood 
rare to most museums. "Kahn was 
concerned that the space provide an 
intimate and domestic sense. That way 
the works of art do better," Hirschel 
said . 

But in the 1950s, YUAG directors 
wanted their gallery to resemble the 
Museum of Modern Art in New York. 
They ordered renovations which 
obscured some of Kahn's intended 


effects. Workers constructed semi-
permanent walls for additional 
hanging space; many were light in 
color like those in the MOMA. This 
color scheme violated Kahn's belief 
that art should be d isplayed against 
dark backgrounds. 

Today, YUAG administrators are 
trying to restore many of Kahn's 
touches. Hidden by partitions installed 
during the '50s, the concrete shaft and 
vestibule will soon be visible. Pogo 
panels will reappear in the museum's 
European collection this spring. 

Organized by the Duke University 
Museum of Art, the exhibition will 
continue on to its final destination at 
the Museum of Modern Art in San Fran-
cisco. Not coinc.identally, Duke and San 
Francisco are considering plans for 
new museums, structures which they 
hope to model after Kahn's work. 

" People have been continually 
interested in Kahn since he built this 
m useum," said Hirschel. "His 
museums offer the ideal setting for 
presenting works of art." 
- En"lc Meers


**Title: Between the Vines**
**Author: Jamie Workman**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Between the Vines/ Jamie Workman 
The Mudthirsty Crowd 
The Monster coughed out a cloud of 
exhaust, hesitated for a moment, then 
burst ahead. There was no ramp. It 
didn't matter. The front wheels struck 
the side of a rusty, dilapidated Dodge, 
squashing the door. The Monster's 
forward momentum drove its front end 
up into the air and the entire truck was 
airborne. It hovered for 
a 
full 
second- a second filled with dozens of 
flashes· and thousands of gasps- before 
plummeting back to Earth on four 
other junkers. The beast landed so 
hard on one that the car's left-turn 
signal started blinking, a pathetic cry 
for mercy. After prancing back and 
forth across the tops of the junkers, the 
Monster descended gingerly from its 
helpless victims. Debbie Rhoden, the 
truck's driver, calmly unstrapped her 
helmet, waved to the New Haven 
crowd, and sped off the floor. 
The graceful performance of "Hot . 
Stuff," a Big Block Jeep with a 
454-cubic-inch engine that runs on 
alcohol, 
was just one of several 
spectacles at the Tractor Pull and 
Mudbog competition at the New 
Haven Coliseum February 2 and 3. 
Last October, 
some friends had 
dragged me, reluctant and scornful, to 
a similar event; this time I returned 
eagerly. While the fans around me ate 
blue cotton candy, chewed Skoal and 
passed around the Southern Comfort, 
I sat hunched over, scribbling madly 
on my pad, trying to take in what had 
become, according to announcer Jack 
Arnold, "the number-one attraction in 
the nation." 

The Tractor Pull and Mudbog has 
earned this supreme status only in 
recent years. The shows began a few 
years ago as local tractor pull contests 
in the fields behind tri-county fairs. 
Spectators liked the events, and the 
popularity of the competitions 
snowballed. Today, the National Hot 
Rod Association organizes nationwide 
tours from Yakima, Washington to 
Tampa, Florida featuring surprise 
appearances by half-million-dollar 
robots, double-engined 18-wheelers, 
and television celebrities. Large 
corporations such as Anheuser-Busch 
sponsor the events. 

After Hot Stuff and two other 
Monster Trucks had done their 
damage, 
the junkers were barely 
recognizable scraps of metal, and, 
sadly, even that left-turn signal had 
ceased to blink. But there was no time 
for mourning. It was time for the next 
event. 

The announcer introduced us to 
Danny Reeve, a famous professional 
stuntman 
who doubled 
for 
Erik 
Estrada's partner on the hit T.V. 
program C.H.iP. :S. Ree~~· known on 
the circuit as "Mr. TNT," performed 
his legendary feat of locking himself in 
a box with two ignited sticks of 
dynamite. After a deafening explosion, 
little chunks of the box were strewn 
about the floor, and Reeve lay flat on 
his back, unconscious for ten seconds. 
When he came to, he reminded us not 
to leave and go try something like that 
in our own homes. "Basically, it feels 
like someone takes a large two-by-four 
and whacks you across the back with 
it," Reeve explained. Another thing 
not to try at your next backyard 
barbecue. 

After witnessing such a display, 
Tom Andrus (TD '92) had to ask, 
"Why? Why would any man ever want 
to do a thing like that?" Many Yale 
students, in turn, might ask why. Why 
would any one at Yale go to see a New 
Haven Tractor Pull on a Saturday 
night, especially when high-cultured 
groups like the New Haven Symphony 
and Yaledancers were performing that 
very evening? 

Those who have attended a tractor 
pull fmd the appeal quite natural. "I 
think the Monster Trucks are just as 
valid a 
cultural event as 
the 
symphony," said Jessica Nordhaus QE 
'90). "There's a danger of viewing those 
events with a touch of Yale snobbery, 
as if it were a lower townie thing. But I 
have to admit that I was intrigued from 
the start, and entertained by the 
show." Like Andrus, Nordhaus came 
"Basically, it feels like 
someone takes a large 
two-by-four and 
whacks you across the 
back with it." 


--- Page 11 ---

to Yale from a city in the West where 
"everyone seemed to get into their 
trucks, fLXing them up with huge 
wheels and lights." When she heard 
the announcements of "power . . . 
power . . . power" in the "mud . . . 
mud ... mud," she wanted to see for 
herself what it was all about. Greg 
Widmeyer (CC '90) had his own 
reasons for going. "I think people enjoy 
watching Monster Trucks for the same 
reason they can't help looking at an 
auto accident on the highway," he said. 
"I guess it's just a fascination with 
destruction." 

.Before anyone could reflect too 
much on the appeal of Reeve's display 
that night, Jack Arnold's voice directed 
our attention back to the arena. 
"Hurry back to your seats," he said, 
"especially if you have children, for 
they sure won't want to miss the next 
event." Meanwhile, a man in a red cap 
sneaked into the middle of the mud 
and plopped down an orange cube 
which had the words "I CAN'T" 
written on every side. Then he crept 
silently away. No one mentioned this, 
and I grew suspicious. 

Suddenly the lights blacked out. 
"Ladies and gentlemen 
in 
audience, if you would direct your 
attention to where the strobe light and 
spotlight are pointing, you will see 
(long pause) Vorion!" The throbbing 
lights focused on a gate, which in the 
stadiums of Spain or Rome let in the 
bull or lion. This time the gates opened 
to let in Vorion, a 40-foot-long vehicle 
that looked like a red and silver 
Batmobile. 

"Only the voice of the children can 
make Vorion appear. He has to hear 
them call him out, so let's tell him, boys 
and girls," said Arnold. I found myself 
chanting along with the nine-year-olds 
in the crowd. "Vo-ri-on! Vo-ri-on!" 

The metamorphosis occurred. Like 
a giant plastic Transformer toy, the 
top of the vehicle slowly rose on hinges 
behind the back axle to become a 
terrifying, mechanical robot, shooting 
thunderbolts from its right fist and 

--- Page 12 ---

throwing flames with its left. From 
behind its glowing red eyes, the 
mechanical voice introduced itself. 
"I am Vorion." With a poof, it sent 
forth a flame. "I hold the power to 
change my future." Zap-out came a 
thunderbolt. "If you boys and girls 
(poof) believe in me (zap) you too will 
hold the power." Then Vorion stopped 
swinging its arms and firing at 
random, and took us children into its 
confidence. "The only things that keep 
us from becoming what or who we 
want to be," it said, "are the words 'I 
CAN'T.' Concentrate your energies to 
help me destroy the I CAN'T box, 
and we will be free." I shut my eyes as 
hard as I could as it took aim with its 
thunderbolt arm, fired at the box, and 
splintered it into . thousands of tiny 
fragments. 

Perhaps even tales ofVorion's magic 
won't convince 
all the skeptics. 
Sophisticated city slickers will still scoff . 
at the mention of Monster Trucks or 
Mudbog competitions. Like their 
patrician 
ancestors of the Ancient 
Roman Colosseum, they consider the 
barbaric events of the 20th-century 
New Haven Coliseum as far beneath 
their dignitas. But if the Tractor Pull 
and Mudbog events resemble a circus, 
it must be a descendant of the Circus 
Maximus, where men were thrown to 
lions and gladiators battled it out on 
the dirt. Indeed, there is something 
timeless about St. Augustine's 
description in his Confessions, of 
a philosophic friend who was half 
inclined to be Christian and who 
on principle detested such 
spectacles, 
but once allowed 
himself to be drawn into the fatal 
circle. At first he resolved to close 
his eyes to the ghastly horrors of 
the scene. 
Presently, at the 
applause raised by some crisis in 
the conflict, his eyes opened and 
would not be withdrawn. The 
fumes of the camage seemed to 
intoxicate his senses; he lost his 
identity, and became one of the 
bloodthirsty crowd. He left eager 
to return once again. 

Half the experience of the 
Mudboggers and Monster Trucks, ac-
cording to Widmeyer and Nordhaus, 
was breathing the carbon monoxide 
exhaust fumes that hovered in the 
stands. "It is a very sensory experience, 
with the noise and exhaust filling the 
air, and all the dirt and trucks on the 
floor," said Nordhaus. "Even up high 
in the stands you feel like you are part 
of the event." As the fumes intoxicated 
my senses, I, too, like St. Augustine's 
friend, lost my identity and became 
one of the mudthirsty crowd. 

It stuck to the skin, 
hair and clothing of 
the fans, who 
screamed with delight 
and wriggled in 
ecstasy. 

The tractor pull also owes something 
to the Spanish bullfight. Just as 
mankind's primitive slaughter of el toro 
takes on beautiful and tragic propor-
tions when carried out as 
pure 
spectacle, so our steel machinery, 
taken out of its early function of 
plowing land on the rugged frontier, 
becomes noble and dramatic when put 
on display for 12 dollars and 50 cents. 
And in both cases, the central image 
is dirt. Hard dirt breeds hard drama. It 
is the stage for ritual. In the American 
ritual, of course, the dirt is American 
made, just like the bulldozers and 
steamrollers which spread it evenly 
over the concrete floor of the New 
Haven Coliseum, just like the blue 
cotton candy and the tobacco spat into 
paper cups in the packed grandstands. 

For the Mudbog competition, the 
final act of the weekend's drama, two 
Caterpillar bulldozers and three dump 
trucks hauled 24 tons of dirt from miles 
away. The dirt was leveled into thin 
layers on the outer parts of the arena 
and in the center was piled up a mound 
which, once sprayed down with water, 
would become "The Bog.'' 

Hundreds of square yards of 
transparent neoprene plastic covered 
the bleacher seats to insulate the stands 
from the muck of the Mudbogger 
competition. In 
perfect 
formation 
around The Bog were dozens of trucks 
and beefed-up four-wheelers with 
names like Pirty Dirty, MudBuster, 
Pit Boss and Bushwacker. "These 
'Boggers, "said Arnold, "are made for 
one thing and one thing only, and that 
is to get across the mud as fast as 
possible." 

But long before the Mudboggers 
skipped across the mud at such high 
velocities, the authorities hooked wires 
to the engines which would auto-
matically shut off the vehicles when 
they had gone the distance across the 
trench. This safety precaution kept the 
PitBosses from MudBustin out of the 
arena and Bushwackin the crowd. 

At one point during the preparation 
one of the cables got stuck in the mud, 
and a man had to be lifted in the 
bucket of a bulldozer to retrieve it and 
to hook it back overhead. The fans 
grew impatient, and the announcer 
tried to pacify them. "Maybe if you all 
cheer loud enough, that man down 
there will jump off into the pit," he 
suggested. I envisioned him lying face 
down, spread-eagled, two feet deep in 
the mud ... mud . . . mud. Finally, 
after finishing his work, the man, 
perhaps himself intoxicated by the 
fumes, began waving his arms to rouse 
the audience, and then crouched and 
lept into the abyss. His feet must have 
sunk no more than four inches. His 
jeans didn't even get dirty. The crowd 
booed. 

I reflected on this for some time. I 
considered how the Spanish audience 
was disappointed if the matador did 
not get blood on his clothing from close 
brushes with the bull. I thought of how 
the Roman audience only admired a 
gladiator if he wounded himself 
courting death. The authorities clearly 
underestimated the hunger of the 
crowd. 
·Greg tapped me on the shoulder 



**Title: The Tractor Pull**
**Author: Jamie Workman**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
and urgently pointed 
to the 
end of the arena. Behind the 
starting line, 
the 
audience was 
lining up next to the edge of the 
neoprene sheets, hardly keeping clear 
of them as instructed. Suddenly, 
the Mudboggers took off, spraying 
huge splats of mud beyond the peri-
meter of the arena. It stuck to the skin, 
hair and clothing of the fans, who 
screamed with delight and wriggled in 
ecstasy. 

That confirmed it. The Tractor Pull 
was not an isolated American pheno-
menon, but a transcendent ritual 
defying time and space. The Spanish 
corrida and the Roman gladiator fight 
are early ancestors of the American 
Tractor Pull. In all of these events, the 
witness to the amoral action envelops 
himself in the spectacle and becomes a 
participant. In the climactic moment, 
the blood spills to the dirt, the bull 
topples into the dust, the junker is 
flattened into The Bog, and the 
audience is splashed with mud. 

The lights went up and the crowd, 
now satiated, began to file out. Then I 
realized that the roots of the Tractor 
Pull go back deeper than the bullfight, 
even deeper than the gladiators, to the 
tragic festivals of Ancient Greece. The 
very moment that the mudthirsty 
crowd tastes a mouthful of the brown 
stuff, it undergoes an Aristotelian 
catharsis- when the body senses 
emotional relief and is cleansed. All 
that remains is for the tragic chorus to 
deliver its epilogue, vocal advice for all 
proud men to be humble and all 
passions to be tempered. 

There was no chorus at the New 
Haven Coliseum, but there was Jack 
Arnold. As the Saturday night crowd 
slowly made its way toward the 
illuminated exits, his voice followed 
them over the loudspeakers, into the 
bathrooms and lobbies, and spilled out 
into the parking lot: "Just a reminder, 
for y'all to drive very safely going home 
now. Goodnight." 
• 
J amie Workman, a senior in Timothy 
Dwight College, is on the staff of TN]· 
,at'

**Title: Rules of the Game**
**Author: Samantha Power**
**Page number(s): 14**

Chris Dudley (TD '87) glanced up at 
the scoreboard. He had two chances to 
tie 
the game 
for 
Cleveland 
Cavaliers. A capacity crowd was on 
hand to watch the Washington Bullets 
battle it out with Dudley and the Cavs 
in the Baltimore Arena. Referee Eric 
Strom handed Dudley the basketball 
for the first of two shots. Dudley sizerl 
up 
the basket and 
released his 
free throw. The shot had a good arc 
but lacked touch. It clanged against the 
iron rim, greatly pleasing the Wash-
ington crowd. 

Dudley took his second shot. Again, 
no luck. This time, though, a Wash-
ington guard moved before the ball hit 
the rim. The violation guaranteed 
Dudley another chance. For a third 
time, the Yalie lofted the ball in the 
general vicinity of the hoop. For a 
third time, Dudley failed to tie up the 
game. But on this attempt, Bullets 
center Dave Feitl jumped too early. 

Dudley stepped up for a fourth 
try- and missed yet again. Remark-
ably, Feitl had again moved too soon, 
so referee Strom, grinning in disbelief,
0 
0 c ::. 
CD 
In 
'< 
~ 
CD : ... 
;: 
iii 
Q: 
for the fifth time awarded Dudley the 
ball and the chance to tie the game. 

And Dudley, the worst free throw 
shooter in the NBA, missed again. 

This time, no violation occured, no 
whistle sounded, and Dudley entered 
the recordbooks as the first player ever 
to miss five free throws on one trip to 
the free-throw line. 

The next day, a fan asked if Dudley 
had been studying economics at Yale 
while the rest of the country was 
learning how to take the easiest shot on 
the basketball court. 

Dudley, like other Yale athletes 
playing professional basketball, 
baseball and football, 
often finds 
himself the object of such ribbing. F:ans 
think of Ivy Leaguers as more adept at 
sharpening a pencil than handling a 
ball. Last month, Spanky, a stand-up 
comedian, pointed out to a Yale 
audience that the Elis have produced 
more All-American football players 
than any other school in the nation. 
"Of course," he added, "that was all 
· between 1869 and 1926." 

Spanky may think Yale athletics are 
a joke, but the National Collegiate 
Athletic Association doesn't. Looking 
to reintroduce academics into the 
college athlete's course of study, the 
NCAA sees schools like Yale as a 
model. Over the past 25 years only six 
of Yale football coach Carm Cozza's 
players 
failed 
to graduate. 
Dick 
Schultz, the new executive director of 
the NCAA, admires Yale's ability to 
balance academics and athletics. He 
has introduced a variety of reforms 
based on Ivy League regulations, 
which include reducing the number of 
basketball games, shortening the 
season and eliminating spring practice. 

Yale's academic integrity comes at a 
price. Varsity baseball, basketball and 
football teams at Yale don't stack up 
against most Division I opponents. A 
Yale player with pro potential, al· 
though presumably a star in the Ivy 
League, doesn't face the same competi· 
tion he would at a non-Ivy athletic 
powerhouse. Ed Peterson (PC '92), 
basketball's Ivy League Rookie of the 
Year, said, "We don't play Atlantic 
Coast Conference caliber teams 




**Title: The Yale Athlete: Balancing Books and Blocking**
**Author: Samantha Power**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"Some nights I stare at 
my econ book and all 
I see are two goal 
posts." 
everyday." The public generally credits 
a Yalie's outstanding performance in 
the Ivy League not to his ability but to 
the inability of his opponents, Peterson 
said. Ed Perks (BK '92), the top kicker 
on the footall team, added, "You could 
be a great back in the league, but you 
are a great J:>ack in the Ivy League." 
As a kicker, Perks is not held back 
by the level of competition here. His · 
skill is assessed solely by numbers. 
After all, a 45-yard field goal travels 45 
yards, regardless of where it's kicked. 
While the University of Arkansas 
offered Perks a "full ride," he felt 
choosing Yale would not hurt his 
chances of going pro. 
Like kicking, pitching talent can be 
easily measured. Yale Baseball Coach 
Joe Benanto calls a pitcher's skill "time-
divisioned" because scouts rely on 
radar guns and stop watches to gauge 
it. A pitcher throwing with great 
velocity at Yale should be able to do so 
anywhere regardless of the competi-
tion. "It doesn't matter who you are 
throwing against," said Benanto. "All 
stop watches tell the same story." 
When Ron Darling came out of high 
school, the stop watches said he could 
throw a baseball over 85 miles per 
hour. Darling, who now pitches for the 
New York Mets, attracted national 
attention as a Yale pitcher from 1979 
to 1981. Sports Illustrated described him as 
an "athletic miraculist extant." "Ronnie 
got as much attention as anyone in the 
country from the minute he got here," 
said Benanto. In 1981, Darling led the 
Bulldogs 
to their most successful 
season since 1948, when their captain 
was George 
Bush. Still, Darling 
needed to prove his mettle against the 
top hitters in the nation and played in 
the Cape Cod Summer League in the 
off-season. 
Like Darling, Dudley had to prove 
his abilities in non-Ivy competition. 
He finished his last season at Yale as 
the second leading rebounder in the 
country. Such an accomplished player 
should have been chosen early in the 
first round of the NBA college draft. 
Dudley was choice number 75. With 
only Ivy credentials, Dudley struggled 
to convince scouts that he was pro 
material. "It was important for me to 
go to All-Star camps," said Dudley, "so 
scouts could see what I could do 
against big-time college players." 
Coaches liked what they saw at the 
camps and decided to give him a 
chance. Dudley was drafted by the 
Cavaliers and has since been shipped 
to the New Jersey Nets. 
While Dudley began considering an 
NBA career in his sophomore year, 
academic obligations competed with 
his professional aspirations. The Yale 
athlete, like all undergraduates, must 
read poetry, complete problem sets 
and attend the language lab. The need 
to accomodate class schedules frus-
trates coaches. 
During practice, 
Benanto, 
long accustomed 
to 
intellectual incursions on the field, 
pines for "a captivated audience." In 
order for 
Basketball Coach Dick 
Kuchen to get a full team to practice 
on Thursdays last semester, he was 
forced to schedule a 7 to 9 a.m. 
pre-class workout. "When four kids 
have section on the same afternoon, we 
have to improvise," said Kuchen. "It's 
frustrating as a coach, but coaches in 
this department realize why men and 
women come to Yale." 


Annoying for coaches, this juggling 
act is outright nerveracking for 
players. "When I'm stressed about 
school, I don't play well," said Casey 
Cammann (DC '92), the center for the 
basketball team. "I have a hard time 
shifting gears." By the same token, 
Perks sometimes has trouble working 
because he would rather be kicking the 
points. "Some nights I stare at my econ 
book and all I see are two goal posts." 


Like everybody else, athletes must 
make sacrifices, although sometimes 
the extent of their self-denial seems 
more extreme. Peterson doesn't hit 
Toad's with his teammates for Friday 
night happy hours because, he said, 
"any free time I have when I'm not 
studying 
needs to 
be used for 
basketball." 
When Paul Maley (ES '88) went to 
the prestigious Portsmouth Invitation-
al Basketball Tournament, he took his 
homework. The tournament attracted 
all the best college players in the 
nation. To Maley's delight, he roomed 
with Georgia Tech's Craig "Noodles" 
Neal, a renowned passer and point 
guard. 
Although Maley's on-court 
dexterity impressed scouts and earned 
him an NBA tryout, Noodles remem-
bers Maley holed up in his room each 
night, working on his senior essay. It 
was spring break, after all, and NBA 
or no NBA, Maley's essay could not 
wait. "I never thought I'd hear the end 
of it," Maley said. 
Despite 
the burdens, 
a 
Yale 
education may actually help athletes 
into the pros. "We look at mental 
makeup and what kind of toughness a 
guy has inside," said Roland Johnson, 
director of scouting for the New York 
Mets. "The Ivy Leaguer might be 
assumed to be more intelligent." Don 
Martin (SM '71), a former professional 
football 
player, 
agreed that Yale 
athletes have a reputation for being 
level-headed. ''How many drug-
addicted Ivy Leaguers have you seen 
in the news lately?" 
Though Yale may not crank out 
Divison I supermen, some coaches and 
scouts do not see this as a drawback. 
"We are a little behind, maybe as many 
as 70 to 80 practices," said Cozza, "but 
our guys aren't burned out after 
college." At big college programs, the 
athlete might peak while still in school 
and not improve at the professional 
level. "The less experience an athlete 
has, the better he might get," Johnson 
said. 
Once a Yalie goes pro, everybody 
wants to talk about where he went to 
school. Darling has rarely appeared on 
nationwide TV without broadcasters 
prefacing his name with the words 
"Yale graduate." (Actually, Darling 
never graduated from Yale, leaving 
after his junior year to begin his pro 
career.) "It's real good for a team's 
image," said Coach Kuchen, "because 
there's a huge media interest in a guy 
who does both things." 
In the pros, Yalies, to nobody's 
surprise, are tagged as intellectuals. 
While traveling with the New Jersey 
Nets during the months preceding the 
1989-90 season, Maley found himself 
so stereotyped. On the bus one day, 
the Nets' Coach Bill Fitch and one of 
the other players were arguing about 
the date of "some war" when they 
caught a glimpse of Maley curled up 
with a historical novel. "I was saying, 
'God, I hope they don't ask me,'" 
Maley said. "I hadn't the foggiest when 
it was." Sure enough, the coach turned 
to Maley. "Why don't we ask the Yale 
guy?" he said, and would not accept 
Maley's claims of ignorance. "He said 
'Gosh, you know when a history major 
from Yale doesn't know, we're in real 
trouble,"' Maley said. 
Most Yale graduates in the pros 
have had similar experiences, but, said 
Maley, "it's never malicious." Don 
Martin may feel differently. When 
Martin joined the Oakland Raiders in 
1971, Gene Upshaw, now head of the 
Player's Association and Art Shell, 
current coach of the Raiders, made 
their new teammate sing the Bulldog 
song before he could start his 
professional career. Chris Dudley has 
to put up with such teasing all the time. 
Fans have christened the missed 
freethrow a "Dud" in his honor. 


**Title: Harry Gets Some Play**
**Author: Josh Plaut**
**Page number(s): 18**

Michael Roemer strolled out of the 
audio-visual center on High Street 
carrying a red spiral notebook, a 
battered Sontag 
novel and 
two 
bananas. He had just finished teaching 
his advanced ftlm 
workshop and 
wanted to get home to Yonkers. Three 
students followed after him. 
"My mother wanted me to tell you 
that she loved the movie, especially the 
Bar Mitzvah scenes," said one student 
as Roemer smiled. Roemer's film, Tht 
Plot Against Harry, opened nationally in 
mid-January after premiering success-
fully at film festivals last fall. Filmgoers 
line up each night at the Lincoln Plaza 
Theater in New York to see this 
deadpan comedy about a Jewish 
racketeer's return from prison. Tht Plot 
Against Harry received an invitation to. 
the Cannes Film Festival this spring, 
and a 
European company 
has 
purchased the rights to distribute the 
film in France. 
Harry's creator, a German Jew who 
came to the United States in 1945 
has been teaching at Yale since 1966. 
Over the past 30 years, he has directed 
seven feature length films and written 
several scripts. Although he lives and 
works 
m 
New York City, 
each 
semester Roemer leads 
film 
workshops and an American Studies 
seminar here. He promises that The 
Plot Against Harry will eventually be 
screened on campus. 
Behind the success of Roemer's 
comedy lurks a near-tragic past. When 
Roemer first showed the movie to 
friends 20 years ago, nobody laughed. 
Determined to give the film another 
chance, he arranged a screening at



**Title: The Plot Against Harry**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Columbia Pictures. The movie execu-
tives hated it. Convinced that he had 
made a lousy movie, Roemer scrapped 
the project before completing post-
production, and gave up on comedy 
altogether. H e has made three feature 
films since: two dramas and a highly 
acclaimed documentary about victims 
of terminal illness called Dying. 

Last year, Roemer decided to put 
Ha'!Y on videotape for his children. 
Wh1le transferring the print from film 
to 
tape, 
a 
technician burst into 
laughter and Roemer reconsidered the 
long-forgotten project. He reworked 
the soundtrack and sent prints to the 
New York and Toronto Film Festivals. 
A~?iences at both festivals raved. The 
cnt1cs also liked it. Janet Maslin of The 
Ntw York Timts described the film as "a 
funny, sharply drawn, appealingly 
modest film," and David Denby of Ntw 
York magazine called Harry "a cult 
movie you can take your mother to." 

Shot in black and white to evoke the 
cinima vbiti documentaries of the time, 
the movie satirizes the life of Harry 
Plotnick, a smalltime operator in the 
Manhattan numbers game. Caught 
amidst 
swarm of call 
girls, 
Congressmen and petty criminals, 
Harry tries to reform his life by 
reacquainting himself with his 
estranged family. Harry, though, can't 
escape the complications of the past. 
When Harry is hit with a case of 
indigestion, he thinks he is having a 
fatal heart anack. In what he takes to 
be his fmal moments, he donates his 
savings to charity dOd takes the rap for 
a crime he did not commit. The jokes 
are played extremely straight; Roemer 
expects audiences to spot amusing 
details. In the background of one scene 
a toddler spreads photographs of her 
lingerie-clad m other across the kitchen 
floor. Not too many viewers were 
attentive enough, it turned out, to spot 
the jokes. 

People in 1969, Roemer suggests, 
were not sophisticated enough to deal 
with Tht Plot Against Harry. "For one 
thing, the film moved too fast for 
people. They couldn't pick up signals 
and they couldn't follow the narrative." 
Roemer explained that today people 
are far more adept at recognizing 
important details in a film. "You just 
watch MTV and see how quickly 
things move. People pick up signals 
very fast today." 

Viewers didn't 
like 
Roemer's 
penchant for documentary either. "The 
Th~ '\1~" .Journal/ March 2, 1990 19


---

**Title: Blacks and Jews: Split Visions**
**Author: Adriel Alston**
**Page number(s): 24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
A tall muscular black man stood at the 
front of a 
crowded law school 
auditorium. He spoke for three hours 
about racism, its relationship to drug 
dependency, and how the Nation of 
Islam's philosophy can help conquer 
this problem. I looked around at the · 
people of African descent in the 
audience. All those whom I could 
see-whether from Detroit, North 
Carolina, New Haven, South Africa or 
the Bronx-appeared.to have the same 
inspired and enthusiastic air as the 
people from my Baptist Church do 
after a powerful minister delivers a 
thought-provoking and 
uplifting 
sermon. A man wearing a yarmulke 
rose in the middle of the auditorium. 
With an unsteady and sincere voice he 
announced that he was an American, a 
Jew and a · Zionist, and, pointing 
toward the tall figure behind the 
podium, he said with conviction, "I am 
not afraid of you." 
He added 
his fear that the doctor wo~ld say 
words that would lead African 
Americans to harm Jewish people. He 
nervously awaited a response. 

During the speech given by Dr. 
Abdul Alim Muhammad, the national 
spokesperson for the Nation of Islam, 
there was clearly a pronounced gap in 
communication between the different 
groups in attendance. One group 
thought the sermon by Muhammad 
was hateful and offensive, and another 
group thought it educational and 
informative. Sadly, this grouping was, 
to a large extent, determined by race. I 
realize that there were some whites and 
Jews who did approve and a few blacks 
who did not, but the pattern of 
reactions was strong enough to make 
racial perspective relevant. Judging by 
the frequency with which similar 
situations occur, it is apparent that the 
miscommunication and antagonism 
that often exist between blacks and 
Jews are part of the overall miscom-
munication between people of African 
descent and white people in general. 
This problem occurs because most 
white people don't understand black 
people and don't respect them enough 
to try. 

One could take the standing ovation 
by many of the black members of the 
audience as a sign of virulent anti-
Semitism on the part of black people. 
One could also say that this speaker 
was so charismatic that the weak-
minded African people simply lost 
their minds. But if this is true, it must 
follow that the people of a darker color 
in the audience, after hearing such a 
hateful preacher, would also carry 
sentiments of hate. 

Given that 
members from the Nation of Islam 
speak all over the country, one would 
even expect there to be a nationwide 
crisis of African Americans attacking 
Jews and burning synagogues. I've yet 
to hear of such incidents, and I've yet 
to speak to an African American who 
has ever heard a member of the Nat ion 
of Islam advocate the spread of even 
mild animosity toward Jews. It. is 
clear that there is a great deal of mis-
understanding, and the people who do 
not understand are the same people 
who have never understood people of 
my persuasion. 

It is much easier to label someone 
anti-Semitic or a hate monger than to 
deal with what he has to say. This is 
especially true when what is said is 
painful to those who do not wish to be 
seen as oppressors. The need for many 
of the Jewish students to identify 
themselves as.oppressed people (when, 
in the United States, they belong to the 
same oppressive structure to which all 
people of European descent belong) is 
evident in the name of the group 
opposing Muhammad's visit- the 
Committee Against Bigotry. In an 
often racist university, an extremely 
racist city, and a traditionally racist 
country, it is ironic to note that the 
only bigotry the members of this group 
have experienced this year came with 
Muhammud's visit to campus. Appar-
ently it is easier for a traditionally 
oppressed group to feign continued 
oppression than it is for them to deal 
with the nature of our society which 
places those with a certain skin color in 
a class that can dominate the rest. 

Regrettably, the genocide against 
people of African descent is 
no~ 
something I need to read in a history 
book, or ask my parents about. Sadly it 
is something that I learned simply by 
growing up where I did. Drug-related 
crime, cocaine and heroin abuse, and 
now the alarming and rapid spread of 
AIDS among the 
drug-using popu-
lation in my community, all serve to 
destroy an entire generation of my 
people. The Nation of Islam, through 
its 
highly 
successful prisoner 
education, drug rehabilitation and 
"drug busting" programs has clearly 
demonstrated that it has a method that 
can help lead some of the oppressed out 
of the 
behavior that relentlessly 
destroys their lives. 

The Committee Against Bigotry did 
indeed realize this, but still insisted 
that this speaker should not have been 
invited. 
(One speaker on the 
committee went so far as to insist that 
he could not understand how his 
African-American friend could do this 
to him and that this action meant the 
end of their friendship.) This means 
that the saving of black life was less 
valuable to the committee than their 
dislike of an organization that they did 
not even understand. 

This is not surprising, for I believe 
that most white people O ews included) 
feel more strongly about the destruc·


**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Josh Plaut**
**Page number(s): 22**

They like my movies." 
Still, why doesn't he head for 
Hollywood, 
direct 
major studio 
projects and earn buckets of cash? 
Roemer explained, "I wasn't 
determined not to go to Hollywood. I 
just thought that it wasn't going to 
work." At the time that he was making 
The Plot Against Harry, Roemer refused 
offers to direct several films including 
an adaptation of Philip Roth's Goodbye, 
Columbus. "If I had a really good touch 
for big, popular movies, I'd have made 
them." 

"If you had killed your 
father and married 
your mother, you 
probably wouldn't 
want to put it on 
stage." 

A director with demonstrably non-
commercial leanings, Roemer is afraid 
of getting hurt by Hollywood. He 
argues that directors must be realistic 
about their abilities. "If somebody told 
you that you should join the swim 
team, you'd tell them that you'd lose all 
their races for them. And if you tried to 
race, you might sprain your back the 
first time out and go to the hospital for 
three weeks and miss a semester of 
school. That's kind of the way it was 
for me." 

Even though he has just sold the 
options on a comedy script entitled 
Famous Long Ago, Roemer refuses to 
change his lifestyle. "I'm now 62, not 
39, and I'm not going to do anything 
that I haven't been doing all along." 

:~ut with people going wild about 
Harry 
in New York and maybe now 
abroad, Michael Roemer might fmd it 
difficult to stay put. 

josh Plaut, a junior in Timothy Dwight 
College, is Associate Editor of TNJ . 


Savor our scrumptious and 
generous portions of the finest 
Szechuan, and Cantonese cuisine. 
\Ve're open for Lunch & Dinner 7 days a week. 
Takeout orders available and all major 
credit cards are honored. 
Q A til 
HOME VILLAGE 
GOURMET CHINESE REST AU RANT 
2380 Dixwell Avenue, Hamden 
At the Caldor Shopping Plaza 
Call 288-54 79 or 288-5328 



**Jews, White People, and the Ability to Oppress**
**Author: Adri~l Alston**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Jews must accept that, 
as white people, they 
have the ability to 
oppress others. 
tion of those who are white than they 
do about the destruction of black life. 
As a result, many whites can neither 
admit nor comprehend the full 500-
year horror of the middle passage, 
slavery, lynchings, and the current 
systematic violence against African 
Americans. If the Committee Against 
Bigotry thought that all life was equal, 
they would have formed much earlier. 
They would have already been 
attacking the oppressive forces from 
which they benefit. 
This deep disrespect is not reciprocal. 
People of African descent 
understand the Holocaust 
and the 
reasons why Jews would want their 
own state. This understanding makes 
it possible for African Americans to 
realize that when Jews claim to support 
the state of Israel, 
it does not 
necessarily mean that they are for the 
murder of blacks in South Africa. 
Israel has a well-known policy of 
selling arms to that still oppressive 
regime. This makes them as morally 
culpable for the death in that country 
as Mercedes is for its role in the 
Holocaust. In light of this, I would not 
demand that Hillel cut all ties to Israel, 
nor demand that they not invite 
anyone from that often 
morally 
bankrupt country to come to Yale. I 
realize that to most Jews, Israel is a 
matter of survival, and, unlike others, 
I have enough respect for people to 
never expect them to give up their 
means of survival. I have a moral 
obligation to speak out against this 
blatant act of racism on the part of the 
Israeli government, and 
I 
would 
expect Jews who support Israel to do 
the same. 
Jews must accept that, as white 
people, they have the ability to oppress 
others. The Palestinians are well aware 
of this. When the Black Student 
Alliance at Yale brought a member of 
the PLO to Yale three years ago, 
BSAY was widely accused of engaging 
in an offensive and anti-Semitic act. 
To many of those who worked on that 
forum, however, it was simply a 
matter of recognizing that people can 
be oppressed by other traditionally 
oppressed groups. It was only offensive 
to those with no desire to be reminded 
of their own racism. 
After 500 years of building a system 
based on certain racial assumptions, 
valuing the contributions and 
humanity of whites over people of 
color becomes an unspoken way of life. 
Racism has ingrained itself in 
everything from standards of beauty to 
the different ways our society worships 
God. When black life 
and self-
determination are devalued, I consider 
it the only natural response of a 
conditioned society. Jews, like other 
European ethnic groups, are 
susceptible to 
the same racial 
disrespect as other white people. This 
disrespect will continue to occur until 
white people realize the depth to which 
they must question their actions. To 
assume people of color are either 
misguided, paranoid, overly sensitive, 
or anti-Semitic is to disrespect the 
intelligence of people of color and to 
further the perverted racist atmosphere 
so prevalent in this society. 
• 
Adri~l Alston, a junior in Branford Colleg~. 
is co-moderator of the Bkuk Studmt Allianc~ 
at Yale. 


**Blacks and Jews: Haunted Memories**
**Author: Dan Gerwin**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

Essay/Dan Gerwin 
Blacks andjews: Haunted 
Memories 
Black-] ewish 
relations are 
like 
gremlins: they are only mentioned when 
something goes wrong. Only when an 
African-American speaker who is 
allegedly anti-Semitic comes to campus 
do we suddenly hear concern over 
"black-J ewish relations." Such concern 
has recently centered on the Nation of 
Islam here at Yale, Public Enemy at 
Columbia University, and Jesse 
Jackson on the national level. Abdul 
Alim Muhammad's speech last month 
aroused profound feelings of anger and 
fear in both peoples. At the Law 
School, Jewish protesters crowded the 
halls, and African Americans, proud of 
the speaker, packed the auditorium. 
Why? 
We should begin by realizing that 
Jews and African Americans do not 
interact today as communities. 
National Jewish and African-
American leaders are not occupied 
with reciprocal diplomacy. On our 
own campus, Hillel and the African-
American Cultural Center have no 
ongoing interaction. Instead, relations 
between the two communities- what-
26 The New journal/Ma~h 2, 1990 
clearly so. Consider a controversial 
remark made by Muhammad in his 
~ speech at Yale last month. In reference 
~ to accusations that South African 
!t Jewish doctors had iniected black 
~ 
"J 
• infants with AIDS, Muhammad said 
~ the story could be true. It seems that 
~ Muhammad's intention was simply to 
.., indicate the extent and inhumanity of 
~ white supremacy in the world. Indeed, 
ever they 
may be- and 
between 
individual J ews and African Ameri-
cans are dominated by the white-black 
dynamic. 
Interaction between the 
average J ew and African American is 
informed first and foremost by the 
prejudices, · fears, 
misg1vmgs and 
curiosities that exist between whites 
and blacks who make only superficial 
contact and know little about each 
other. 
There are specific feelings and 
prejudices, however, which many Jews 
hold about African Americans, and the 
reverse is also true. Though these 
feelings and• prejudices generally 
remain quietly in check, they erupt 
when someone 
Abdul Alim 
Muhammad comes to speak. Again, 
we must ask why. 
Some J ews claim that anti-Semitism 
is particularly virulent in the African-
American community. These alle-
gations usually 
refer 
to 
African-
American leaders making statements 
which have anti-Semitic overtones, but 
some of these statements, 
while 
pupportedly anti-Semitic, are not 
He recalled the Tuskegee case of white 
American doctors injecting African· 
American babies with syphilis. To 
African-American ears, as to non· 
Jewish ears in general, Muhammad's 
statement is a moving commentary on 
white oppression. But to J ewish ears, 
his statement echoes a long line of anti· 
Semitic 
incitements 
whiCh 
have 
sparked pogroms and massacres of 
Jews throughout European history. In 
our own 
parents' lifetime, 
Stalin 
fabricated the infamous "Doctors Plot,' 
m 
which 
the 
Soviet government 
accused six Jewish doctors 
of 
assassinating two Soviet leaders and 
conspiring to murder more. Jews 
today cannot help but be shaken to the 
core by statements like M uhammad's. 
Nevertheless, it is debatable whether 
Muhammad's words were intentionally 
anti-Semitic, or simply a description of 
white oppression. Whatever Muham· 
mad's purpose, it is important to 
realize that the Nation of Islam does 
not organize its power around anti· 
Semitism. It is also important to kno" 
that history has shown that national· 
ism's twin sibling is anti-Semitism. 
Black nationalism is no exception to 
this rule, and Jews cannot afford to 
ignore history. 
Jewish perceptions of African 
Americans involve far more thaD 
simple vigilance agai nst anti· 
Semitism. Jews spread the diseast 
of racism as much as any other people 
In addition, some Jews seem to have• 
residual paternalistic anger at the 
African-American community for 
becoming separatist during the ci~ 
rights movement. Many J ews feel al 
though they played an important rok 
in that struggle, and not only receiveC 
no thanks, but were told in nc


449 Sackett Point Rd. 
North Haven, CT 06473 
(203) 288·1697 
FAX (203) 288·0379 
Kathryn Boris 
Sales Representative


Roseys Tailors and Cleaners 
• 4 Hour Dry Cleaning 
• Custom Alterations 
• Down Cleaned 
• Suedes and Leather Cleaned 
• Zippers and Lining Replaced 
• Pants Tapered 
Est. 1888 
562-8336 
82 Wall St. 
Opposite Silliman


SPRING IS COMING!!! 
\~~ ~~ 
~ \'b~ 
•\ 
,. ~~ ~I~ 
THINK~~~ 
11~4 
PARTY!! 
THINK 
We have Special PARTY 
packages with GIANT 
PARTY SUBS!! 
Ask about our Yale Discount. 
11 Broadway 
787-3454 
1179 Chapel 
497-9324



**THINK SPRING BIKE SPECIALS!**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 28**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
THINK SPRING BIKE SPECIALS! 
Super Buys on Super Bikes 
FUJI Odessa -
Fat Tire Bike 
TREK 800- Fat Tire Bike 
UNIVEGA Alpine Uno- Fat Tire Bike 
TREK 830 -
UNIVEGA Uno-Lt -
TREK 7000 
Aluminum Fat Tire Bike 
TREK 1000 -
Aluminum Racing Bike 
Reg. 
$289.95 
$339.95 
$449.95 
$570.00 
$660.00 
$549.95 
SALE 
$249.95 
$299.95 
$349.95 
$399.95 
$499.95 
$599.95 
Quantities limited to in-stock bikes- buy early for best selection 
SPRING BIKE TUNE-UP only $29.95-includes adjust brakes, 
gears, true wheels, tighten, oil and check. 
NEW HAVEN BICYCLE, INC. 
537 Whalley Ave. (1 Y2 blocks west of Rte. 10 Boulevard) 
New Haven, CT Approx. 10 minutes west of Campus 
call 389-BIKE (2453) 
, , 
DISCOUNT WITH CURRENT YALE J.D. -
rNQUTRE.


**Afterthought**
**Author: David Greenberg**
**Page number(s): 29**

N arne Dropping 
My roommate Michael and I were 
furiously 
debating the causes of 
cultural change in the United States. 
As I pontificated with what I took to be 
rather cogent and spontaneous 
eloquence, I insisted that journalists 
can ·effect genuine progress. "One of 
the most influential books of the 
century," I said, "was The jungle by 
Sinclair Lewis." 
"No," Michael interrupted. "Sinclair 
Lewis wrote Babbitt. You're thinking of 
Upton Sinclair." 
Suddenly it hit me. I realized that I 
never knew the difference between 
Sinclair Lewis and Upton Sinclair. To 
my mind they were both left wing 
American fiction writers of the early 
20th-century, 
pretty much inter-
changeable. 
The conversation stopped. I could 
think of nothing but this mistake that I 
had been making my whole life. How 
long I had lived in this state of 
ignorance! If Michael hadn't shown me 
the error of my ways, who knows how 
long I would have continued to think of 
the Sinclairs as one and the same? 
Michael tried to console me for my 
gaffe. He confessed that he always 
made a similiar mistake with Francis 
and Roger Bacon, 
both 
English 
philosopher-scientists from sometime 
between 1200 and 1700. As far as he 
was concerned, they were both avatars 
of the Enlightenment and expounded 
the scientific method. Then we both 
admitted to having trouble differ-
entiating Stephen 
Douglas from 
Frederick Douglass, contemporaneous 
figures who had something to do with 
Abraham Lincoln and freeing the 
slaves. 
We all have these pairs of people 
whom we hopelessly confuse in our 
own minds, people whose names are 
similar and who share some vague set 
of characteristics. Who, for example, 
can tell me the difference between 
George Sand and George Eliot? Both 
were 19th-century women novelists who 
took on the male nom tk plume. One 
wrote Silas Mamn and one had an 
affair with Chopin, but which one did 
which is anybody's guess. And who can 
keep straight Reagan-Bush lackeys 
Nicholas Brady, James Brady and 
James Baker? At least one of them, I 
think, got shot in the head. 
My brother laughingly recalls a 
friend of his who reeled off a history 
paper just hours before he handed it 
in. His haste did not go unnoticed. 
When he got the paper back, the 
professor had drawn a big circle 
around the phrase, "In James Beard's 
An Economic History of the United 
States . .. " In the margin, the teacher 
had scrawled in red ink, "No, you 
mean Charles Beard. James Beard is a 
chef!" Of course my brother should not 
laugh. He continually mixes up Ingrid 
Bergman and Ingmar Bergmann. 
I was discussing such perplexing 
personages recently with a friend who 
has spent sleepless nights wrestling 
with the distinction between Ben 
Jonson and Samuel Johnson- a 
I had never known 
that Thomas Wolfe 
and Tom Wolfe were 
different people. 
problem complicated by the additional 
pressure of having to know which one 
is referred to as "Dr. Johnson." I told 
him that I often blur the fine line 
between Malcolm Cowley and Mal-
colm Lowrey; it doesn't help that I 
know nothing about either one except 
that their names are bandied about in 
intellectual circles. He shot back with 
the tricky distinction between Thomas 
Wolfe, author of the American classic 
You Can't Go Home Again, and Tom 
Wolfe, who wrote the trendy best-seller 
Bonfire of the Vanities and spoke at 
graduation last 
year. 
I 
was too 
embarrassed to admit that I had never 
known they were different people. 
Fortunately, 
there 
is hope; 
education can help. After majoring in 
American history, I can at last assert 
with confidence that Andrew Jackson, 
not Andrew Johnson, was known as 
"Old Hickory." Never again will I 
speak of Senator Joe McCarthy's 
crusade against the Vietnam War, 
Thomas 
Dewey's 
philosophy of 
education, or Henry Wallace's 
proclamation, "Segregation now, 
segregation forever!" I have finally 
figured out the difference between 
Aaron Burr and Raymond Burr, 
although now I can't tell Raymond 
Burr from Raymond Massey. 
Actors often prove the hardest to 
keep separate. For years I mixed up 
Cary Grant and Gary Cooper. Many 
people I know confess to confusing 
Jackie Cooper and Jackie G Ieason (and 
some throw in Jackie Mason as well). 
For the life of me, I cannot tell 
Christopher Lee of the horror films 
from Christopher Plummer of the 
movie musicals. Finally, while we're at 
it, would someone, please, for once 
and for all, sort out Anthony Hopkins, 
Anthony Perkins, Anthony Quinn and 
Anthony Quayle? 
Athletic figures blur together too. 
Sports fans will recall taking a cut at 
telling apart baseball players Dwight 
Evans and Darrell Evans, tackling 
football coaches Chuck 
Noll and 
Chuck Knox, and, above all, volleying 
back and forth tennis players Vitas 
Gerulaitas and Guillermo Vilas. It's 
the same story for literature buffs, for 
whom the distinctions between Evelyn 
Waugh and Somerset Maugham, 
Henry James and Henry Adams, and 
Jane Austen and Jane Eyre are 
certainly nothing novel. Music majors 
might fine-tune for me German 
composers Robert Schumann and 
Franz Shubert, waltz-kings Johann 
Strauss and Richard Strauss, and 
hyphenated Frenchmen Jean-Luc 
Ponty and Jean-Pierre Rampal. 
People who go by their first two 
initials drive me particularly crazy. 
Try, for example, keeping straight 
E.M. Forster and C.S. Forester, or 
C.S. Lewis and C.P. Snow. I was 
shocked recently to learn that I.F. 
Stone, the liberal Jewish author and 
critic, is not the same person as Irving 
critic, and that neither one of them has 
anything to do with Irving Howe, the 
liberal Jewish author and critic. 


**TN] thanks:**
**Page number(s): 30**

TN] thanks: 
Adriel Alston 
Mark Badger 
Laura Bradford 
Alison Buttenheim 
Anna Clark 
Victoria Cohen 
Masi Denison 
Tania Dyson 
AJbertJ. Fox 
Dan Gerwin 
Liz Hopkins 
Todd Lynch 
Michael McCullers 
Erik Meers 
Hank Michael 
Jonathan Plaut 
Samantha Power 
Kathy Reich 
Jaeyong So 
Jack Wills 


FUTON CONVERTIBLE SLEEPER 
A Clean Contemporary Look 
The Futon-cotton, cotton foam or wool 
mattress- provides firm back support. 
81 Washington St. 
838-0646 
South Norwalk, CT 06854 
975 State St. 
562-0448 
New Haven, CT 06511 


SUMMER 
E
COU.EGE 
CREDIT 
PROGRAMS 
The opportunity of a 
Wetlme In a summer. 
JUNE 4- AUGUST 10, 1990 
Organic and Physical Chemistry, 
Physics 
If you are a college undergraduat 
an academically strong high 
school junior or senior. or a 
qualified adult. send for your free 
information and application to: 
YALE UNJVERSriY 
Yale Summer and Special Programs 
53 Wall Street · Third Floor 
P.O. Box 2145 
New Haven. CT 06520 
Phone: (203) 432-2430 
30 The New Journal/ March 2, 1990 
JUNE 18- AUGUST 10, 1990 
Summer Language Institute 
Humanities and Social Sciences 
Sciences and Mathematics 
English u a Second Language 
Studio Art 
JULY 2- AUGUST 3, 1990 
The Five Week Semester Including: 
Art History, Computer Science. 
Creattve Writing. Drama, 
Film Studies, Music, 
and Political Science. 
For those of you who think your-
selves immune from this sort of 
problem, I have devised a quiz. Give 
yourself the appropriate number of 
points for each pair of people you can 
tell apart. Deduct the given amount if 
you always thought they were the same 
person. The winner gets a 
free 
subscription to The New Republic-! 
mean, The New journal. 
1 Point: 
Calvin Trillin and Lionel TrilJing. 
Arthur Hailey and Alex Haley 
Livy and Pliny 
Eldridge Cleaver and Elbridge Gerry 
Stephen Vincent Benet and Edna St. 
Vincent Millay 
5 Points: 
Andrew Carnegie and Dale Carnegie 
Sir Walter Scott and Sir Walter 
Raleigh 
Frederico Garcia Lorca and Mario 
Vargas Llosa 
Eddie Fisher and Eddie Cantor 
AI Capp and Andy Capp 
10 Points: 
Horatio Nelson and Horatio Alger 
(and, for that matter, Alger Hiss) 
William Jennings Bryan and William 
Cullen Bryant 
Frankie V alii and Rudy Vallee 
Frankie Valli and Frankie Avalon 
25 Points: 
H oagy Charmichael and Stokely 
Charmichael 
Bret Harte, Hart Crane and Stephen 
Crane 
50 Points: 
T.H. White and Theodore H. White 
Extra Credit: 
Write an essay in which you explain 
the differences between Theodore 
White, T.H. White, T.H Huxley. 
D.H. Lawrence, T.E. Lawrence, T.E. 
Shaw and T.S. Eliot . 
David Greenberg, a senior in Berkt/tJ 
College, is Managing Editor ofTNJ. 



**Title: Nevv Haven Brewing Con1pany Announces Connecticut Ale**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Nevv Haven 
Brewing Con1pany 
Announces 
Connecticut Ale 
New Haven Brewing Co1npany 
4-58 Grand Avenue 
New Haven, Connecticut o6 5 I 3 
772-BREW


**Title: CLASS· of 1990**
**Author: A. Bartlett Giamatti**
**Page number(s): 32**

Yale must be able to afford the best, to be the 
best. We must be able to say to young people 
from everywhere in American society that if they 
have the quality, we have the commitment to it, 
a commitment sufficient to allow them to 
develop their quality and put it to work in the 
world ... 
-A. Bartlett Giamatti, 1982 
,, 
Your immediate contribution 
to the 
1990 QUARTER CENTURY FUND 
will demonstrate our class' 
commitment to the best 
for Yale. 
fYALE ALUMNI FUND

