Publication date: September 9, 1988
Volume: 1
Issue number: 1


**MASTHEAD:**
- **Cover design:** Pamela Geismar
- **Cover photo:** Heidi Schulman


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
About This Issue
NewsJournal
Between the Vines
Essay
Features
What To Do About Nothing - Peter Zusi
Out of Bounds - Matthew Fleischer
Trial and Error: The Executive Committee's Self-Discipline - Martha Brant
A Modern Messiah - Malaika Amon
After the Fire - John Gill
Fighting Words - Jennifer Fleissner
Books


**Title: About This Issue**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 5**




**Title: NewsJournal**
**Page number(s): 8**




**Title: Between the Vines**
**Page number(s): 10**


Between the VInes


**Title: Essay**
**Page number(s): 12**




**Title: Features**
**Page number(s): 18**





**Title: What To Do About Nothing**
**Author: Peter Zusi**
**Page number(s): 24**

Organs play . . . Needles work . . . Books open . . . Film societies close. 
What To Do About Nothing 
An investzgation of the ways in which nothing has influenced the formation of the 
modern mind. Close readings in Shakespeare, Melville, and Henry James. Prejerence 
given to students wearing bright socks. By Peter Zusi


**Title: Out of Bounds**
**Author: Matthew Fleischer**
**Page number(s):  Not specified**

Out of Bounds 
Will the Yale education evolve into a four year program without majors? As 
interdisciplinary studies become more popular with educators, students might learn to 
think more broadly. By Matthew Fleischer


**Title: Trial and Error: The Executive Committee's Self-Discipline**
**Author: Martha Brant**

Trial and Error: The Executive Committee's Self-Discipline 
Students rarely think about Yale's rules until they break them. Although the Executive 
Committee is revising its procedures to make students more aware of its disciplinary 
methods, many feel it likes its privacy. By Martha Brant



**Title: A Modern Messiah**
**Author: Malaika Amon**
**Page number(s): 30**

A Modem Messiah 
In an era of fundamentalism, political apathy and the threat of nuclear holocaust, the 
Baha'i Faith has spread from Persia to New Haven, quietly working towards political 
and social, as well as religious goals. By Malaika Amon


**Title: After the Fire**
**Author: John Gill**

After the Fire 
Two years ago, over 1,000 demonstrators gathered in Beinecke Plaza to protest the 
removal of the anti-apartheid shantytown. This summer, after a Yale alumnus burned 
the re-built shanties to the ground, the Coalition Against Apartheid has tried to 
reconstruct the community enthusiasm that has eluded the group since 1986. 
By John Gill


**Title: Fighting Words**
**Author: Jennifer Fleissner**

Fighting Words 
Two critics argue persuasively that the battle of the sexes has shaped 20th century 
literature. But their ambitious three-part study No Man's Land, is not without 
problems By Jennifer Fleissner


**Title: About This Issue**
**Author: MB**
**Page number(s): 5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Just a couple of words, that's all. It was the next to the last night of 
production weekend, and the only major task left for the editors was to 
come up with titles. We sat down to plow through the stories in order: 
first, the Newsjournals. They're short piec~s; the titles should come 
quickly, we figured. There was Kirk Semple's piece about a program 
in New Haven to distribute clean needles to intravenous drug 
abusers. Playing on needle imagery, we came up with "Needle Point." 
But that didn't quite cut it. Then we thought about alluding to the 
controversy surrounding the program. Someone suggested "Sticking 
It Out." That wasn't right either. 

We decided to move on to the features. We were encouraged when 
the title for the cover story on Yale's disciplinary body came to us 
quickly: "Trial and Error." But apparently someone snoozed at the 
computer before the copy went to the typesetter: The piece came back 
as "Trial and Terror," which seemed a bit biased. Next we tackled 
Peter Zusi's piece-a light-hearted discourse about the art of saying 
nothing. We considered leaving the headline blank, but some thought 
that too subtle. Then someone suggested • A Tale Told By An Idiot, 
Signifying Nothing." Peter wasn't amused. 

Eventually things fell into place, as they seem to every issue. The 
Nw Journal, an undergraduate magazine covering Yale and. New 
Haven, comes o~t six times a year. We distribute 11,000 copies free 
throughout campus. Our contents range from short news stories to in-
depth research articles and from opinion pieces to book reviews. We 
are student-run and completely funded by our advertisers. 

In the past six years, six of our features have won Yale nonfiction 
writing prizes. The New Republic ran a condensed version of a New 
]ounud cover story on Accuracy in Academia. CBS turned another 
cover story on a New Haven prostitute with AIDS into a segment for 
60 Minutes. The same story also won a Rolling Stone College journalism 
award for investigative reporting. This summer the writer of the story 
about Yale Aviation clubs was asked to write a book on the same sub-
ject. And for three years in a row, The New Journal has won top honors 
from the Columbia University Press Association. 

We would like to see your input in the magazine. The New Journal lS 
looking for photographers, designers, salespeople, and writers. We 
have planned an organizational meeting for Thursday, September 22 
at 9:00p.m. in the Silliman Common Room. We hope to see you 
there . 
-MB

The New Journal encourages letters to 
the editor and comment on Yale and 
New Haven issues. Write to Martha 
Brant, Editorials, 686 Yale Station, 
New Haven, CT 06520. All letters for 
publication must include address and 
signature. The New Journal reserves the 
right to edit all letters for publication. 


**Title: Pipe Cleaners**
**Author: Motoko Rich**
**Page number(s): 6**

Under the ornate ceiling of Woolsey 
Hall and below the orderly rows 
of wooden 
benches, 
Nicholas 
Thompson-Allen and Joseph Dzeda, 
Yale's curators of organs, can hardly 
move. In their cluttered, subterranean 
workshop, they clean and repair Yale's 
14 organs. Benches, organ pipes, and 
bottle brushes crowd the room. The 
curators' most cumbersome task is 
maintammg Woolsey's towering 
centerpiece-the 12,573-pipe Newberry 
Memorial organ. 

A 40-year-old photograph hanging 
on the wall shows the workshop 
basically unchanged. Even the tea cans 
stacked on the shelves are the same. 
Many of the tools Dzeda and Thomp-
son-Allen use came from the former 
curators; the workshop today remains 
distinctly low-tech. 

Dzeda and 
Thompson-Allen have resisted 
experimenting with new materials. 
They stuck with leather diaphragms 
when other curators tried plastic, 
which Dzeda points out, deteriorates 
too quickly. When curators from other 
schools alter the organs according to the 
ruling fashion, he said, they com-
promise the instruments' quality. "You 
wouldn't repaint a Rembrandt to match 
new, yellow walls in the house. But 
that's essentially what has been done to 
the organs at these other schools." 

Even though Dzeda and Thompson-
Allen pamper their organs with old-
fashioned care, they cannot protect the 
instruments from old age. Over time, 
the diaphragms that control the organs' 
valves dry out and rupture, which 
distorts the sound. Before dismantling 
the delicate instruments, the curators 
usually wait until several problems 
accumulate. "The organs are happiest 
when left alone," Dzeda said. 

That can mean waiting anywhere 
between 25 and 50 years, when the 
organs get their regular pipe cleaning. 
But even with this long grace period, 
the curators have fallen somewhat 
Joseph Dzeda, curator of organs, has some catching up to do: Woolsey 
H all's N 
Memorial organ consists of 12,573 pipes, each of which 
must be 
cleaned. 

behind. In fact, thousands of the 
Newberry Memorial organ's pipes 
have gone unwashed since 1928. 

The cleaning process hasn't changed 
much over the intervening years. Like 
their predecessors, Dzeda and 
Thompson-Allen carry the pipes to the 
basement and scrub each one using 
bottle brushes and hot water. After re-
installing the pipes, Thompson-Allen 
performs a technique called "voicing" 
to regulate the force and response of 
the sound. 

Thompson-Allen learned this 
method from his father, Aubrey, who 
was the third organ curator in Yale's 
history. Both Dzeda and Thompson-
Allen trained with Aubrey before 
taking over as associate curators in 
1973. The two men also run the 
Thompson-Allen Company, which re-
pairs organs throughout Connecticut. 

The curators have embraced tradi-
tion over innovation. They want 
future generations to see, hear, and 
play the organs the way the Yale 
community enjoys them today. And 
although it creates more work for him, 
Dzeda believes that everyone should 
have access to the organs. "These are 
not museum pieces," he said-even 
though he still considers himself a 
curator. 
- M otoko Rich


**Title: Counterpoints**
**Author:  (Not specified)**

John Parker speaks with urgency and 
passion about the AIDS threat facing 
intravenous (IV) 
drug abusers. 
"People say drug addicts can't change 
their behavior. But there's still time to 
reach addicts that don't know the 
facts," he said. "We need to do it now." 
As a 34-year-old, reformed heroin 
addict, ex-con, and master's candidate 
at the Yale School of Epidemiology and 
Public Health, 
Parker knows the 
addict's plight. In a controversial, self-
funded campaign that defies Connecti-



**Title: Aiding Addicts**
**Author: Kirk Semple**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Darius Helm (MC '88) goes to the 
ltreets to distnbute clean needles to 
heroin Wlen. 
cut laws, he has been distributing clean 
hypodermic 
needles among New 
Haven's IV drug-abusing population. 
Parker is 
addressing 
a 
serious 
problem. Sixty-nine percent of the 175 
reported AIDS cases in New Haven 
are IV drug abusers. Few addicts have 
access to health information; even 
fewer use sterilizing agents or clean 
equipment. 

Three years ago, Parker founded a 
drug educational campaign in New 
Haven and Boston, now known as the 
National AIDS Brigade. He postered 
target areas in both cities with leaflets 
showing injection equipment and the 
warnings "DON'T SHARE" and "USE 
BLEACH" in Spanish and English. 
Several Yale medical students joined 
Parker on his weekly postering runs to 
the Dixwell, Grand Avenue, and Hill 
neighborhoods in New Haven. 

Parker has now taken his campaign 
one step further. He distributes clean 
needles and bleach in New Haven, 
violating a state law that prohibits the 
~ssion and 
trade of syringes 
wathout a prescription. Connecticut 
shares this law with only 13 other 
states. Using money he earns as a 
fisherman and pan-time teacher in 
South Boston, Parker buys the needles 
legally in Vermont for 18 cents each. 
Darius Helm (MC '88), a local 
AIDS counselor who helps Parker with 
the_ New Haven program, describes 
thear rounds. "We begin postering to 
attract attention and look for long 
~es (hiding track marks)," Helm 
said. •If there's someone standing 
around who looks interested, we ask if 
he knows somebody who shoots drugs, 
ask him if he gets off." Once they locate 
u~en. they explain correct AIDS-
prevention techniques, 
including 
needle sterilization. 

Parker hands out 4-0 needles on his 
biweekly runs, making contact with a 
small fraction of the estimated 7,500 
IV drug abusers in the city. But he 
hopes to mobilize more volunteers and 
financial support and to dispense 4-00 
needles a month by the end of the year. 
Using the example of several inter-
national campaigns, Parker also plans 
to develop his program into a strict 
needle-for-needle exchange. 

He has met some resistance to his 
project. Some opponents of needle 
distri.bution and exhange argue that 
such programs only encourage drug 
use and drug trafficking. "I'm not sure 
that addicts are really sitting and 
worrying about AIDS, as opposed to 
getting through the day and getting 
more drugs," said Robin Kroogman, 
chairwoman of the New Haven Board 
of Aldermen's Special Committee on 
Drugs. 

Alvin Novick, M.D., professor of 
biology at Yale and chairman of the 
Mayor's Task Force on AIDS, admits 
that needle distribution could increase 
drug use, but supports Parker's cam-
paign for its short-term health benefits. 
H e believes that until enough public 
health care programs are established 
for the addict population, public health 
officials must encourage addicts to use 
their drugs safely. 

Novick also argues that the existing 
legislation intended to reduce the 
spread of drugs has done little to 
prevent drug abuse. In addition, he 
says, it has increased the spread of 
AIDS. He claims that laws restricting 
needle purchase have raised the price 
of injection equipment on the street, 
where needles cost from five to ten 
dollars. The high price of syringes has 
promoted needle sharing, which expedites 
the spread of the AIDS virus. "Addicts 
hate to share needles: Parker said. 
"They're only doing it out of necessity." 

U ndaunted by his arrest in Boston 
last month, Parker is continuing his 
efforts 
to create a 
Maine-to-New 
Jersey needle-distribution campaign. 
Recent proposals for legal needle-
exchange programs in New Haven, 
Boston, and New York City are en-
couraging, but too slow for Parker's 
agenda. To complement the expand-
ing New Haven project, he is initiating 
his own distribution program in New 
York this fall. 
- Kirk Semple


**Title: An Open Book**
**Author: Anna Kreiner**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

Twenty years after Yale College went 
co-ed, the Yale College Programs of 
Study (YCPS), popularly known as the 
"Blue Book," 
has 
followed 
suit. 
Beginning with its 1988-89 edition, the 
YCPS will no longer use the generic 
"he" to refer to students. This change 
developed from a letter that inspired 
three professors of the Women's 
Studies department to sift through 
every sentence of the Blue Book for 
words and expressions they considered 
sexist. 

The letter arrived on the desk of 
Yale President Benno Schmidt in the 
spring of 198 7. It was the expression of 
a parent's displeasure with the Univer-
sity's public stance towards women. 
According to Margaret Homans, 
chairperson of the Women's Studies 
department, the parent's complaints 
included an objection to the frequent 
use of gender-specific language in 
official 
documents. 
Nancy Cott, 
department at that time, received a 
copy of the letter. After speaking with 
Yale College Dean Sidney Altman and 
YCPS Editor Lila Friedman, Cott met 
with Homans and Mahzarin Banaji, 
assistant professor of Women's Studies. 

Working on their own time, the 
three women compiled 
list of 
suggested revisions to remove gender-
specific expressions from the YCPS. 
Their recommendations included re-
placing •the student ... he" with -rhe 
students ... they: substituting -rhe" 
for "his," and rewriting some sentences 
entirely to eliminate gender-marked 
constructions. They suggested more 
than 40 revisions for the YCPS and 
often included more than one possible 
rewrite for each sentence they wanted 
to change. They also recommended 
that the term "chairman" be replaced 
by "chair," "freshman" by "first-years" 
or "first-year students," and "upper-
classmen" by "sophomores, iuniors, 
and seniors." "We hoped that this 
would become policy for all public 
documents at Yale," Homans said. 

While Friedman understands the 
professors' concerns, she has taken a 
more conservative approach to 
changes in the Blue Book. "The generic 
'he' doesn't bother me as much as it 
docs Nancy Cott and Margaret Ho-
. mans," Friedman said. Nevertheless, 
she believes that "language 
is 
consensual" and popular usage should 
be respected. Reasoning that the Yale 
community has begun to perceive the 
construction as masculine, 
she 
approved the replacement of "he." 

Still, Friedman was unwilling to 
accept the other revisions proposed by 
the three professors. She considers the 
term .. freshman• to be fairly en-
trenched in the language at Yale and


**Title: Final Cut**
**Author: Julu Hanmw.n**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

Gone with the wind is Friday night's 
dilemma of deciding which of the six 
movies on campus to see. The choice 
will be easier this September as only 
Spectrum, Ezra Stiles, 
and Yale 
Medical School ftlm 
soc1et1es are 
operating. The thinning of the ranks 
follows a tougher liability rule for 
film societies, making student directors 
personally responsible for debt, which 
in once case totalled $9,000. 

This new policy was sparked by the 
financial collapse of Berkeley People's 
Film Society (BPFS) last year. When 
Stan Paik (BK '89) took over BPFS in 
September, 1987, he hoped to show 
good fllms and stay on budget. By 
December, he had accumulated a $5,000 
debt, plus be had inherited $4,000 in un-
paid bills from previous directors. Paik 
increased his advertising and expanded 
the schedule, but his low turnout did not 
cover these costs. The night he showed 
the British classic, The Snvant, two 
people came. 

Paik thought he had no reason to worry· 
The University had never enforced the 
rule that makes directors liable for 
their expenses. After a few more flops, 
he cut the number of showings, but it 
was too late. Angry distributors called 
him daily to demand payment. It didn't 
stop there. They also began to call Dean 
of Student Affairs Betty Trachtenberg. 

Faced with court orders, Paik flew to 
France and left the defunct film society 
behind. 

To prevent another such occur-
ence the Dean's Office began 
investigating all ·of the film societtes' 
finances. First, the University made 
partial payments on the outstanding 
debts of film societies registered as 
undergraduate organizations. Ezra 
Stiles and Yale Medical School have 
the only two independent film so-
cieties. Then, T r achtenberg warned 
student directors that the Dean's Office 
would enforce the existing liability 
rule: The University will pay student 
directors' debts if they default, but the 
students must then repay the Univer-
sity. 

According to Trachtenberg, the 
Dean's Office isn't looking so much to 
punish students, but simply wants to 
prevent debt. The University has 
stepped in and plans to monitor the 
film societies' budgets closely. If it is 
deemed necessary, the Dean's Office 
will halt a society even mid-semester , 
unless the directors either pay their 
debts or alter the film schedule to make 
more money. 

David Kirchner (BK '89), a director 
of the Yale Law School Film Society, 
worries that the plan doesn't allow for 
sufficient flexibility. He explains 
that film societies' finances are erratic. 
A society can incur a $500 debt in 
one weekend. "If monitoring is set 
up that closely, at what point do they 
hold a director liable? At how much 
debt?" 
Kirchner asked. 
His 
society and Yale Film Society are 
taking no chances. The two are 
merging, and they will severely cut 
their schedule, wh ich won't begin until 
the spring. 

Maybe more important to movie-
goers, the new policy does not allow for 
much artistic creativity in the movie 
selection. "In a year-and-a-half or two 
years, there will be far fewer good, 
small-audience ·mms," Kirchner said. 
Now that directors must worry about 
liability, financial considerations may 
overshadow artistic ones. 
- Julu Hanmw.n


**Title: Between the Vines**
**Author: Peter Zusi**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
What To Do About Nothing 
Every once in a while I have nothing to 
say. This does not bother me much. 

Often, however, people expect more 
from me. At an institution that exists 
solely for the productive exchange of 
ideas-I refer here to Yale-it is a 
breach of etiquette to have nothing to 
say. It brings conversations to an end 
and indicates, well, stupidity, which 
can be awkward and embarrassing. 

And since students in particular are 
often confronted with occasions when 
they have nothing to say but are forced 
to say it, I present here some tips on 
how to say nothing, and say it at 
length. 

Circumlocute, circumlocute, cir-
cumlocute! Circumlocution is the act 
of talking around your subject, but it 
works just as well when you have no 
subject. This is what experts refer to as 
the doughnut of langu4gt: a fat ring of 
words with nothing in the middle. Cir-
cumlocution creates substance from 
nothing; 
what's more, 
it's poetic. 

Ancient writers used it all the time. 
One can enhance circumlocution 
through the use of litotes, or double 
negatives ("Don't not 
call 
me 
Ishmael"), repetition (to emphasize an 
important point), and substitution 
(why say "antepenultimate" when you 
can say "second from the next to 
last•?). 

Put things in a pattern. As does 
circumlocution, 
patterns create a 
struc:ture that makes something of your 
noth!ng. For example, if I 
have 
nothmg to say, I can change that into 
"The Seven Ages of Having Nothing to 
Say." Basing your pattern on 
S~espeare is g~, because it's 
poetiC. And now, mstead of having 
nothing to say, I. have at least seven 
paragraphs. An outline for the seven 
ages m1ght go as follows. First: When I 
was very young, I couldn't talk- thus I 
had nothing to say. Second: Once my 
mother told me to clean up my room, 
and I had nothing to say. Third: A 
professor asked me about magnetic 
fields or something and, truly, I had 
nothing to say. And so on. Different 
patterns work for different amounts of 
nothing. A doctoral thesis might be 
entitled "The Thousand and One 
Nights of Nothing to Say." 

Copy different styles. This gives you 
an excuse to say nothing because you 
are saying it in an unusual way. Legal 
talk is an obvious choice here, as it was 


Three figures sat in front of a large, old 
house, forming visors with their hands to 
shield their eyes from the afternoon sun, while 
dark shadows grew across the lawn (and 
with them grew the history of the house, a 
house that was ancient and, at the same time, 
somehow quite modern). There was nothing 
to do. Then one of the figures spoke up with a 
suddeness that positively made the teacups 
rattle in their saucers. 
•Ah, Cousin Pointsharp! I do so admire 
your independent spirit!" The cousin ad-
dressed, a most modern young woman from 
America, turned her head slightly, and then 
assured her interlocutor that he was odious. 
The third figure then spoke, an older woman, 
the bnghtness of whose gaze was matched on-
ly by that of the sun, which beat down upon 
the heads of the three figures. 
"Please, positively! This whole situa-
tion is . tellement ennuyeux! Ralph, 
what do you have to say for yourself?" 
"'Ah!" was the reply. 

This could go on for pages. The point 
of the scene is that "There was nothing 
to do." But because the style is that of a 
leisure-oriented, francophilic tea-
drinker, the passage is rather long. 
T he style itself accounts for 148 of the 
161 words that appear. 

O ne last point. Whichever method 
you choose to say your nothing, be 
sure to strike a bitter tone. You will 
sound smart, and people will take you 
more seriously. 

T hese devices are good for all 
situation s where having nothing to say 
might be rude or compromising. They 
are perfect for occasions where you 
m ust say more than you mean. They 
are a basic tool for today's student. 

There is, however, another process 
related to saying nothing, one which 
takes up less time and involves fewer 
rhetorical flourishes: That is, don't say 
anything. The difference is that when 
not saying anything, hands remain 
folded on the lap, eyes stare straight 
ahead (or perhaps pensively at the 
ceiling), and the mouth remains firmly 
shut. No words come out. When you 
don't say anything, nobody hears you 
say it- which is the complete opposite 
of saying nothing. Although'not saying 
anything requires fewer skills, many 
people consider it the more difficult 
p rocess. If it is difficult, that is because 
it requires honesty: You must admit 
you have nothing to say. 

H aving nothing to say should not 
imply having nothing on your m ind, 
but unfortunately this is often taken to 
be the case. Because of the structures 
of university study, people learn to put 
a lot of emphasis on the quick retort, 
the conclusive evidence, and the final 
analysis. All these things are loud, so 
loudness becomes the sign of the 
thinking process. But thinking is silent. 
It should not be embarrassing to let 
people see you thinking instead of having 
thought. 

Thus every 
now 
and 
then, 
everybody ought to shut up. This is an 
important point, so I'll repeat it: Shut 
up. If you do it correctly, it can 
actually be quite impressive. Picture 
the following scene: You sit with your 
legs crossed, wearing bright socks, 
holding a pad of paper (but no pen). 
You are silent. A crowd of people 
forms around you, waiting to hear 
what you have to say, but finally 
becoming impatient, they ask, "What 
is the secret?" "Oh, it's nothing," you 
reply; and they all agree that it is. 

Peter Zusi, a senior in Silliman College, u 
managing editor of TNJ.


**Title: Out of Bounds**
**Author: Matthew Fleischer**
**Page number(s): 12**

Essay/Matthew Fleischer 
Out of Bounds 
What would a new vision of education 
look like? Not the vision loosely 
structured, progressive schools have 
been offering for years, but one that a 
place like Yale could ad~pt-a place 
that answers to the many masters of a 
conventional university, from the 
residential college variety to the 
powerful alums. Students know at least 
part of the anJwer: Education would 
not be chopped into 36 unrelated 
courses. Between the divisions, the 
potential of so many ideas seeps 
through. Instead of discovering the 
relationships between the physics 
problem set and the abstractions in the 
philosophy reading, students struggle 
to do one or the other-and end up 
12 The New JownaliSeptembcr 9, 1988 
with specialization in one discipline, 
but a fragmentary vision overall. A 
new education at Yale would view 
knowledge as an umbrella. All dif-
ferent approaches to learning would 
assemble under its protection to form a 
cohesive way of thinking. What would 
a new vision of education look like? 
The plans to bring such a program to 
Yale are already in place. 
University President Benno Schmidt 
believes the Yale education is capable 
of melting academic divisions. Accord-
ing to Schmidt, education becomes 
fluid 



**Yale's Interdisciplinary Approach**
**Author: Matthew Flanscher**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
contribution to a broader knowledge. 
Schmidt regards Yale's distribu-
tional requirements as the mechanism 
that assures breadth in a Yale College 
education. 

Yet 
this 
breadth is 
antagonistic to the integrated under-
standing he also insists students must 
have. The four groups into which all 
classes fall divide Yale's education into 
a checklist from which students must 
choose some of this group, some of 
that. By reducing knowledge to this 
checklist, students might know what to 
learn- a grasp of another language by 
the end of year four, a Group III next 
semester. But for students to be able to 
leave Yale aware of how to learn, they 
need to see relationships between the 
subjects they study. In the end, Yale 
students should believe that their 
experience has bred more than an 
intellectual expansion. They should 
feel 
they achieved an 
intellectual 
coherence as well. 

A new program is trying to piece 
together Yale's fragmen.ts. Shortly after 
most students had left for the summer, 
Schmidt announced the University's 
new interdisciplinary initiative, the 
Program in Public Philosophy and 
Ethics (PPE). PPE will address general 
questions concerning "the public" for 
both study and research. Still in the 
planning stages, PPE will begin next 
fall. 

This mlttative will create an 
undergraduate major called Politics, 
Philosophy, 
and Economics. The 
major, going by the same initials, will 
replace the existing hybrid major of 
Economics and Political Science, if 
approved by the faculty and the Yale 
Corporation. Whereas Economics and 
Political Science combines courses and 
faculty from the two parent majors, the 
proposed PPE major will have its own 
faculty and courses indigenous to the 
depanment. 

The other branch of the PPE 
proposal, the Public Philosophy and 
Ethics program, will create a union of 
faculty and students from existing 
sraduate and professional schools. By 
establishing a strong presence at the 
lhduate level, PPE hopes to initiate 
intellectual discussion with other 
centers 
for specialized 
study on 
campus. With these exchanges in 
place, PPE Director and Political 
Science Professor Douglas Rae says, 
"People can think about questions 
without translating back into 
th~ir 
disciplinary argot at every stage." 

I n 
organizing this 
program , 
Schmidt, Rae, and other PPE support-
ers are responding directly to the 
academic barriers withi n 
the 
University. The words "Politics," 
"Philosophy," and "Economics" in the 
name of the proposed major reflect the 
organizers' belief that scholarship 
benefits from smoothing over aca-
demic divisions. PPE attempts to 
redefine departmental boundaries that 
exist throughout the University by 
aiming at their points of intersection. 

Other Yale 
departments 
have 
worked in the past to fuse academic 
disciplines and have enjoyed success. 
Majors such as Women's Studies, 
African and Afro-American Studies, 
American Studies, and Humanities 
bring together different specializations 
under their headings. Yet the PPE 
major seems even more broadly con-
ceived than any of these. Whereas the 
creatjon of those earlier interdiscipli-
nary departments reflected their entry 
into formal academia, PPE is more 
than an embrace of unexplored subject 
matter. The major takes a 
new 
scholarly approach by applying several 
perspectives to several subjects. Using 
the notion of "the public" as a 
cornerstone, the major will not only 
link the well-established political 
science, philosophy, and economics 
departments, but will also claim for 
itself all that they individually teach. It 
will not add an extra house to the 
neighborhood, but rather will organize 
the existing homes as if property lines 
did not matter. 

As programs like PPE gain entry to 
universities, cross-disciplinary 
thinking will claim a larger role in 
academia. Jaroslav Pelikan, Sterling 
Professor of H istory, says the most 
significant scholarly insights over the 
past 20 years have come from the 
borders of disciplines. The scholars in 
such positions note the evidence and 
methods of other fields in order to 
learn about their own. Howard Stern, 
a lecturer in the German department, 
has done the same by investigating the 
common ground between such appar-
ently separate subjects as mathematics 
and literature. 

Stern believes that one can discover 
mathematical principles in works of 
literature. A close examination of 
mathematics reveals analogies to 
literary analysis and provides new 
means for interpretation, he says. 
Stern cites Cervantes' Don Quixote, in 
which, in the second part of the novel, 
the characters read their own story 
from the first. This self-reference could 
simply be called magic. Or, according 
to Stern, "We can see that there is a 
very simple mathematical way to 
organize that magic using (the branch 
of analytic geometry called) topology." 

Literature is currently understood 
using perspectives from 
history, 
sociology, 
linguistics, 
art, and 
philosophy. "Literary studies are 
always enriched by invoking other 
disciplines," Stern says. He feels math 
has a place, too. 

To President Schmidt, institutional 
efforts like PPE and individual efforts 
like Stern's reflect a burgeoning sense 
of academic community at Yale. The 
nourishing of these connections within 
the University produces new bases for 
scholarship and faculty research. 
Schmidt cites recent developments in 
biophysics and biochemistry, progress 
in molecular medicine, and increased 
dialogue between the humanities and 
the social sciences. The challenge is to 
find a way to open this academic 
community to the students. Pelikan 
points out that the seeds for scholarly 
breakthroughs often 
come from 
students in class discussions and in 
essays. In a truly productive and 
coherent academic community, all 
members are involved. Students must 
not feel that they are silently passing 
through Yale's course machinery, but 
rather that they are holding several 
academic conversations at once. 

For the students then, majors like 
PPE and teachers like Stern encourage 
a more expansive way of thinking. But 
these studies come with warning 
labels, both for the students and the 
professors. Poorly conceived, cross-
disciplinary 
work can promote 
obfuscation 
instead of creative 
thinking. Although Stern uses math to 
understand 
literature, 
he warns 
against 
confusing 
two. 
Each 
discipline has different founding 
principles at stake: "(In mathematics) 
the theoretical structure is immediately 
usable for higher-level theory, but 
literary theory does not have this 
power. You never move on to a higher-
order Ulysses," he says. 

Interdisciplinary study also risks 
confusing students, particularly if they 
lack enough knowledge in an area to 
go comfortably beyond. Dan Sod-
ickson (TD '88), last year's Warren 
Prize winner for the Humanities, spent 
his four undergraduate years balan- · 
cing interdisciplinary work in the 
Humanities with highly disciplined 
study in Physics. He sometimes felt his 
Humanities seminars were so full of 
variety that they never quite cohered. 
"They coagulated into a big knot where 
you lost everything," he says. Ruth 
Marcus, a professor of philosophy, 
calls this "being interdisciplinary for 
interdisciplinary's sake." Those who 
chase an abstract goal like inter-
disciplinary knowledge often have a 
misguided devotion 
to large-scale 
theorizing. 

Marcus feels 
that the 
relevant carry-over from one discipline 
to another will naturally evolve in the 
classroom, and that sustained pursuit 
of these connections will confuse and 
distract students. She believes that 
students should expect to graduate 
with large gaps in their knowledge: 
Marcus fears that in trying to make 
connections 
between 
subjects, 
students may lose all grasp of their 
content. 

This concern articulates a common 
criticism of interdisciplinary studies. 
But by the same token, in expecting 
boundaries to give out by themselves, 
M arcus falls on faulty logic. She 
removes the onus from both teacher 
and student to look 
beyond the 
academic divisions that entrench the 
educational system. Without a dedi-
cation to challenging these barriers, 
fragmented studies will remain the 
status quo. The promise of interdisci-
plinary programs cannot be fulfilled 
unless both teacher and student walk 
into class prepared to test boundaries 
and to shift perspectives. 

Interdisciplinary programs rest their 
underlying philosophies on the useful-
ness of knowledge. Schmidt says, 
)Knowledge} is a good, of and in 
lbelf .... [It} answers no questions of 
utility, of relevance, of social value." 
He feels this position defends liberal 
education from the narrow thinking of 
careerism and pre-professionalism. 
But students gain by having a strong 
connection to the world, rather than 
lllerely an intellectual refuge. Inter-
disciplinary study develops sophisti-
cated resources for problem-solving. 
Today, the questions to be answered 
require information from other fields 
and not just the insider's view of a 
single topic. The bringing together of 
disciplines at the undergraduate level 
squeezes 
a 
college education of 
everything it has and still addresses the 
needs of developing scholars. 

As the administration and faculty 
become more receptive to making 
education a cross-section of ideas, 
students must unlearn the high school 
lesson that learning is divided into 
discrete subjects. Why not an inter-
disciplinary directive in the Yale College 
Programs of Study? It could tell incoming 
students to look forward to making 
insights not only within a speciali-
zation but also between subjects of 
study. They would learn that students 
should try to see their classes not as five 
different projects, but as different 
extensions of the same enterprise. 

As the University finds better means 
for linking its specialties, the education 
it offers students will improve. Stu-
dents will be able to approach their 
education 
not 
with 
hesitation or 
whimsy-two common 
pitfalls 
in 
course selection- but with the excite-
ment of taking on a single challenge. 
The challenge for now, both for the 
University and the students, is to find 
an innovative approach to creating 
that coherent education. As PPE will 
show, subjects of different content will 
find common ground in the minds of 
students. 

• 

**Title: Yale's Executive Committee: A Strict but Kind Parent?**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 17-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The Executive Committee views itself 
as a strict but kind parent to Yale 
undergraduates. But many students 
lee Yale College's disciplinary board as 
too heavy-handed. They complain that 
in answer to their procedural 
questions, too often they are told "just 
because." Yale's children are talking 
back, and the committee is listening. 
In response to a few controversial 
cases, 
the 
13-member disciplinary 
body, which guards the Undergradu-
ate Regulations, is working toward a 
reamciliation. The outcome could 
affect not only students' life at Yale, 
but in some cases their post-college life 
as well. 
Stuart Weinzimer (PC '88) was a 
medical school admissions director's 
dream applicant before he ran up 
against the Committee. He took a 
Jamaica class spring semester of 1987 
with over one hundred other students. 
Throughout the course, the professor 
encouraged his students to work on the 
problem sets together. 
And all 
hell 
broke 
loose. 
Weinzimer and his classmates 
collaborated. When it came to 
the take-home final, many figured the 
Yale policy applied. They were 
wrong; in the professor's eyes, over 50 
percent of the class had cheated. The 
case caught the attention of the 
Executive Committee members, and 
they called 13 of the students before the 
board the following fall. Although the 
professor recognized that there were 
extenuating circumstances, the most 
he could do for the students was plead 
for leniency. 
"There was a vast number of people 
whose papers were suspect. How they 
arrived 
at 
13 
seems arbitrary," 
Weinzimer 
said. "The scapegoats 
were made. They were never con-
cerned with the fact that there was any 
ambiguity surrounding my particular 
case." Weinzimer was suspended for 
a semester, a light sentence by the 
Committee's standards. As a result, he 
didn't get into the medical schools he 
might have. And for some of the 13 
who were suspended, with less stellar 
records than Weinzimer, it meant a 
change of plans from medical school altogether. 
Weinzimer's 
case 
is 
atypical. 
Although the majority of the cases that 
go before the Committee concern 
plagiarism and cheating, most are 
more straightforward. Forty students 
went before the Committee last year, 
and of those, over half were charged 
with academic dishonesty. According 
to Thomas Carew, chairman of the 
Executive Committee and professor of 
psychology and biology, the Commit-
tee has a clear-cut policy for plagiarism 
and 
cheating. 
"The 
routine 
punishment is spelled out in the 
regulations. They shouldn't come and 
be shell-shocked if they plagiarized that 
it's a two-term suspension," Carew 
said. "Certainly you take into account 
whether the person's moral fiber has 
been attested to, but you try to go on 
the information that is in front of you." 
The Undergraduate Regulations ex-
plain the rules and the punishment for 
everything from vandalism to political 
protest. But few students read the 
rules. When the regulations come in 
the registration packet at the beginning 
of the year, most students' minds are 
still at the beach. Later in the fall, the 
Executive Committee publishes a brief 
summary of its decisions in the Weekly 
Bulletin. But again, few students see it. 
Most students know little about the 
Executive Committee and the rules its 
members enforce. But with the help of 
an ad hoc committee appointed in 
March, 1987 by Dean of Yale College 
Sidney Altman, the Executive Com-
mittee's low profile may be rising. The 
11 members of the ad hoc group 
addressing student complaints, 
compiled a report to update Commit-
tee procedures. Their suggestions were 
approved by faculty vote last May. As 
a result, the Executive Committee will 
adopt detailed, annual summaries of


the cases and provide reasoning for its 
decisions. The Committee will try to 
make these cautionary tales more 
accessible to students, either through a 
campus mailing or the Yale Daily News. 
Liz Magill (BR '88), one of two student 
members of the ad hoc committee, 
thinks that if students know about the 
Committee, they might keep out of 
trouble. "People are not aware of how 
seriously plagiarism 
taken and 
exactly what constitutes plagiarism. I 
think (the summaries] can help with 
that and can make such cases talked 
about. And then when they receive it, 
they might say, 'That could be me, I'd 
better watch it,'" Magill said. Yet, she 
believes that if students are going to 
trust in the rules, the Committee must 
act consistently. 
Phebe Bell (MC '88) is sitting on 
Beinecke Plaza, the site of an anti-
apartheid rally attended by 1,000 
people two-and-a-half years ago. At 
height of Yale's divestment 
movement in the spring of 1986, 
several students came before the 
Executive Committee for building 
shanties, or, according to 
regulations, trespassing. Even though 
the Undergraduate Regulations call 
for suspension, the students were only 
reprimanded. The following fall, when 
Bell received a similar charge for 
blocking the Bursar's Office in protest 
of the University's holdings in South 
Africa, she expected the same penalty. 
But when Bell went in front of the 
Committee, its tune had changed. 
Bell, along with four others who had 
been reprimanded for their activities, 
was suspended for the rest of the 
semester. 
The board's membership had 
changed over the summer. The 
Executive Committee is made up of 
three students, a representative of the 
Dean's Office, three tenured and three 
untenured faculty members, and the 
three members of the coordinating 
group. The coordinating group-the 
secretary, the fact-finder, and the 
chairperson- run the Committee. Its 
members do not vote except to break a 
tie, but they do most of the work. They 
review infractions on Yale's premises 
that are called to their attention by 
police reports, 
faculty 
members, 
college deans, or the sexual harassment 
grievance board. At the end of each 
year, some stay on the Committee, but 
several new members are also ap-
pointed. In Bell's case, the presence of 
so many new members that fall broke 
up the consistency of the Committee's 
decisions. According to Richard Lapin 
(DC '88), a student member of the 
Executive Committee for two years, 
"They were two very different 
committees and two very different 
chairpeople." 
The ad hoc committee suggested 
that the members remain on the 
Committee for three years to ensure 
continuity. The Executive Committee 
will 
also make its records more 
accessible to members by putting case 
histories on computer. Cross-listing 
the cases by penalty, nature, person, 
and date will allow them to research 
past decisions that apply to current 
sessions. 
Jon Ritter (TC '88), one of the five 
suspended in the second divestment 
case, doesn't think a computer would 
have changed the outcome of his 
hearing. He thinks there is a human 
flaw in the system and that the 
Committee decided the case based on 
his politics. Ritter feels that Dean 
Altman selected a new board that was 
biased against his political activism. 
"We don't have any hard evidence that 
he appointed a committee that would 
be less sympathetic with us, but he 
certainly appointed a committee that 
was going to take a more legalistic 
approach," Ritter said. Altman 
appoints all the board members, taking 
suggestions for the student representa-
tives from the Yale College Council. 
Ritter feels that this arrangement gives 
Altman too much power over the 
Committee. But according to Peter 
Brooks, chairman of the ad hoc com-
mittee and professor of French, "The 
Dean is in the best position to produce 
a balanced committee. He is also in the 
best position to persuade people to join 
it." 
Dean Altman also has an ex officio 
post on the Executive Committee, as 
he does on many Yale College 
committees. Usually a representative 
from his office sits in. But Altman has 
attended one Executive Committee 
session, the second divestment case, 
raising a further question of his conflict 
of interest. "There is no doubt that he 
had influence on everyone in that 
room-
like if you're an untenured 
faculty looking to get in right with the 
administration," Bell said. No matter 
what effect, if any, Altman had on the 
Committee's decision, his presence 
looked bad for 
the board. The 
procedures state that either a 
representative of the Dean's Office or 
the Dean may be present at the 
session. In this case, both were there. 
The five 
defendants wanted to 
appeal based on Dean Altman's visit 
and the board's inconsistency, but 
there is no process for appealing an Ex-
ecutive Committee decision. "There is 
no one to complain to. You're supposed to 
complain to Altman, but we were 
complaining about Altman," Bell said. 
Only if there is substantial new 
evidence will the Committee rehear the




**Yale's Executive Committee: A Look at Discipline**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
case; 
procedural disputes do not 
qualify for retrial. Whether or not the 
decisions in the divestment cases were 
political, the five who were suspended 
in the fall of 1986 received the penalty 
prescribed by the Undergraduate 
Regulations. 

Still, many students feel the Execu-
tive Committee needs to discipline 
itself. Carew, who became chairman 
last fall , has tried to make his 
committee more precise than previous 
boards. "One thing I feel very strongly 
about is that the procedures should be 
followed to the letter," Carew said. 
And the ad hoc group has set the 
Executive Commitee in that direction. 
"People are not aware 
of how seriously 
plagiarism is taken 
and exactly what 
constitutes 
plagiarism." 

The major coup of the ad hoc board 
was the formation of the Committee of 
Review, not quite an appellate body, 
but close. If a student has a complamt 
about an Executive Committee's de-
cision, she or he will have 60 days after 
the case to send a written statement to 
the Committee of Review. This 
committee will not actually retry a 
case, but will advise the Executive 
Committee if it should hold another 
hearing. "We didn't want to undercut 
the Executive Committee in any way," 
Brooks said. "We see the Committee of 
Review as an opportunity for a 
reflective, second thought- a group of 
wise people who would be removed 
from 
the 
weekly 
routine of the 
decision-making." 

Some had more radical changes in 
tnind. Their ideas began several 
Protests ago. In 1969, an incident at 
Wright Hall sparked the first wave of 
chan·ges 
in 
Executive Committee 
policy. StUdents barricaded the office 
of a personnel administrator to protest 


**Title: The Yale Executive Committee**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
0 
indelicate they might be, however 
personal," Lapin said. 


Many 
students find 
the whole 
process overwhelming. The meeting 
place itself, on the fourth floor of 
Sheffield-Sterling-Str;athcona Hall 
(SSS), Jacks amenities that might make 
the students feel at home. The Torch 
Room once housed the Torch Society. 
The students and Committee members 
sit around a long table in high-backed 
chairs and address each other by 
formal titles. If students want to plead 
guilty, 
they may 
face 
only the 
coordinating group. But if there are 
extenuating circumstances or if they 
want to plead not guilty, students 
usually 
go 
in 
front 
of the 
full 
committee to advise students who go 
committee. Most of the cases go before 
before 
the Executive Committee. 


"There were no impartial people we 
could turn to for advice, and we were 
totally at their mercy. We could have 
faculty advisors, but they didn't know 
anything about it either," Ritter said. 


The procedures suggest using a college 
According to 
Weinzimer, 
"The procedures are sketchy and don't give 
you any idea of what's going on. I was 
never fully informed of my rights." 


Before any session, students receive 
a packet of information that includes 
the procedures, the charges against 
them, and any evidence that the fact-
finder 
gathers about the case. 


Even those advisors who have had 
practice play a minor role. They are 
meant not to be advocates of the 
students but to suggest questions or 
issues to raise. They may help the 
student prepare but may not partici-
pate directly in the proceedings until 
the end. "An hour later when the 
advisor gives a small statement, it 
doesn't make any difference. Yalies are 
not known for changing their minds. 
Your advisor not only has to be 
wholeheartedly for you, but he has to 
be aggressive," Dick said. The 
advisor's role was originally intended 
to be unobtrusive so as not to turn the 
session into a trial and the advisor into 
a defense lawyer. Among the ad hoc 
committee's major revisions, it has 
tried to redefine the advisor's role as a 
more active one. 


But Carew is wary of the Executive 
Committee's becoming too much like a 
court. "The Executive Committee is 
not a trial. It's a delicate balance, but 
it's not a trial," he said. "We try to solve 
things not in strict, legalistic terms with 
cross examinations and the like, but in 
as much of a familial and supportive 
environment as we can." If the 
Committee were only sending students 
to their rooms without dinner, maybe 
they would believe him. Some students 
see the Committee more as judge and 
jury and have decided to take Yale on 
with a lawyer. Students may use 
lawyers as their advisors when they are 
charged with offenses against people or 
property. If students bring an 
attorney, the Committee calls in the 
general counsel of Yale University. 


Carew strongly recommends against 
seeking outside counsel. "I think it 
would be awful for the students. It isn't 
just that Yale could muster the clout to 
outclass the lawyers that students could 
bring in, it would be what that would 
turn the proceedings into. It would be 
adversarial." 


Lapin admits that the students who 
go in front of the Committee feel 
intimidated. But he thinks that anxiety 
is inevitable. "You're not there to have 
a picnic. I don't think it's adversarial 
like in a courtroom, but certainly ten-
sions are charged," Lapin said Many 
students feel that the University does 
little to make them feel at ease. The 
circumstances, the setting, the pro-
cedures, all add up to an unfriendly 
situation. 


Bell felt 
more comfortable 
recognizing at least three of the faces 
on the Committee. "The students on 
the Committee make such a difference. 
Regardless of how they were going to 
vote, it was such a comfort to have a 

--- Page 23 ---

face that I knew on the ·other side of the 
table. And I could aim a lot more of 
my talk to a person I knew was no 
more scary than I was," Bell said. She 
feels that 
more students on the 
Committee 
would 
help ease the 
tension. Student members are not 
much different from the others; their 
role is not student advocate, but 
member of the Executive Committee. 
"The student is just another member 
like anybody else, truly they are. 
There is a great sense of consensus in 
the committee. We don't feel it's us 
against them," Lapin said. 


There are some aspects of going 
before the Executive Committee that 
will never be easy. No one likes to be 
scolded. "You feel so alienated. You 
are so angry at the University, and that 
shouldn't be," Bell said. But according 
to Carew, "As much good happens in 
that room for students, as stuff that 
makes them feel bad. It validates the 
very existence of the community, and 
it says thllt we have agreed as a 
community to live by a code of rules." 


Those rules have changed with the 
times, and the Executive Committee is 
trying to respond to new problems. 
But its own image may present the 
biggest challenge. "It is not just 
important that fair decisions are made, 
but that fair decisions are perceived to 
have been made," Carew said. Com-
mittee members are working to make 
the students trust in them and in the 
house rules. Yet for those students who 
must leave Yale's family, many never 
really feel part of it again. "It was like, 
'OK you're back.' I didn't get a letter or 
anything. I appeared at Yale's doorstep 
and started taking classes again," 
Weinzimer said. "For me, Yale is just 
this evil monster now. I have no 
attachments." 


**Title: A Modern Messiah**
**Author: Malaika Amon**
**Page number(s): 24**

"Why is it that very 
educated, highly 
intellectual people give 
their life like nothing 
to Baha'u'llah? Can 
you find a scholar 
today willing to give 
his life for Plato?"


The room is nothing out of the 
ordinary. There are scattered floor 
pillows, a grand piano, and a large 
sofa. But tonight East meets West in 
this New Haven living room, where 
Cheryl Khavari hosts a Baha'i Faith 
fireside. An emeritus professor, a law 
student, and a New Haven area grade 
school teacher gather to share stories, 
prayers, and questions with others in 
the group. 


Khavari periodically 
consults her notes and prayer books u 
she guides the discussion on the •Baha'i 
Way of Life." 


Once every two weeks, several of the 
20 Baha'is from the New Haven and 
Yale communities gather for a fireside 
meeting of prayer and discussion. The 
Baha'i Faith, an eastern religion that 
hu enjoyed quiet growth in the United 
States over the past century, shuns 
ritual, dogma, and theological contro-
versy. With no organized clergy, 
participants take an active role in 
worship at the fireside meetings. The 
religion forbids proselytizing; the 
firesides serve to communicate the 
teachings of the faith to people of other 
religious backgrounds and are open to 
all who are interested. 


David Wellen, enrolled in the special 
student and teacher preparation pro-



**The Baha'i Faith at Yale**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
gram at Yale, is not Baha'i, but he 
frequents the firesides. Wellen finds 
the discussions comfortable for people 
who want to explore religion. "The 
Baha'i Faith attracts the type of person 
who rejects ritual- the type who finds 
something spiritually valuable in 
religion yet resists the dogmatic claims 
and over-ritualized aspects of 
conventional religion," Wellen said. 
The Baha'i religion draws no distinct 
line between religious and secular 
issues. It seeks to realize three basic 
goals: unity of religions, international 
peace, and world brotherhood. 

In search of a modern religion 
during the early 1970's, two under-
graduates formed the Baha'i Associ-
ation at Yale. They asked Firuz 
Kazemzadeh, professor of Russian 
history and a practicing Baha'i, to be 
their advisor. At that time, Kazem-
zadeh offered a seminar in Trumbull 
College on the Baha'i Faith in response 
to student request. 
The Baha'i 
Association at Yale has gained 
recognition from the University as an 
official campus organization but has 
had a quiet presence on campus. There 
were nine members last year. Yet 
recently, Howard Garey, professor 
emeritus of French and romance 
philology and the current advisor to 
the association, 
received a 
warm 
welcome from 
the Yale Religious 
Ministry. Garey sees this welcome as 
an important step towards the aim of 
cooperation among religions. The 
semi-monthly meetings of the asso-
ciation in the Dwight Hall Library 
center. on 
topics pertinent to 
the religion, such as Islam and its 
relationship to the Baha'i Faith. Like 
the community firesides, these campus 
meetings are informal and open to all 
who are interested. 

The Yale Baha'i club is part of a 
nationwide phenomenon. There are 
over 200 Baha'i campus organizations 
across the country, with anywhere 
from two to seventy members each. 
They reached a peak of over 300 
groups in the sixties, and after a 
decline in the late seventies, there has 
been a steady growth of campus clubs 
in the last two years. The University of 
Michigan, Princeton University, and 
the University of California at Los 
Angeles have the largest organizations. 
According to Kern Kuipers of the 
Baha'i National Youth Committee, 
"Clubs are encouraged to determine 
the needs of their respective campuses 
and organize projects in keeping with 
their goal of world unity." Such 
projects as "Images of Peace," held 
annually at Princeton, try to heighten 
student awareness of different global 
religions and encourage campus-wide 
cooperation. "We are not just 
interested 
in developing ourselves 
spiritually, but in helping others to 
appreciate their own religion as well," 
Kuipers said. 

East first met West in Chicago, 
when the Baha'i Faith was introduced 
to America at the "Parliament of 
Religions," a 
conference held in 
connection with the 1893 Chicago 
World's Fair. The religion came to the 
United States from Persia, where in 
18H, a young man named Siyyid Ali-
Muhammad announced himself to be 
the Bab, or gate, through which a 
messenger from God would come. The 
messenger, Baha'u1Jah, from whom 
the Baha'iFaith gets its name, appeared 
after the Bab was martyred by the 
Persian government. In 
1912, 
Baha'u'llah's son came to the United 
States to spread the relig ion 
throughout the country. During his 
tour, he laid the cornerstone for the 
only Baha'i temple in America, which 
is located in Willmette, Illinois. 

Today, as the youngest of the world's 
independent 
religions, 
its 
global 
membership has grown from 100,000 
at the turn of the century to over four-
and-a-half million today, with 110,000 
Baha'is in the United States. Next to 
Christianity, it is the most globally 
diffused world religion, 
found 
throughout Africa, Asia, and the 
Americas. 

The faith 
is able 
to 
cross 
geographical and political boundaries 
because it recognizes the validity of all 
world religions. A primary Baha'i goal, 
the unity of religions, is based on the 
idea of progressive revelation. They 
believe that God has sent different 
manifestations, such as Moses, Jesus, 
and Muhammad, to meet humankind's 
needs at particular times. "Just as a 
child matures through various 
developmental stages until he reaches 
adulthood, humankind pursues a path 
of evolution that leads him closer and 
closer towards the realization of the 
Kingdom of God on earth," Garey 
said. "Along the way, humankind's 
needs will vary, and so God sends 
messengers at various intervals to 
address the unique problems of the 
time." Baha'is believe that God's most 
recent messenger is Baha'u'llah, whose 
teachings are to remain relevant for the 
next 1,000 years. God will then send 
another manifestation with a message 
unique to that time period. "In what 
other religious system is it taught that 
religion is relative?" Garey asked. 

Although Baha'is recognize all 
prophets and religions, they believe 
that a general acceptance of the Baha'i 
principles will bring about inter-
national peace, their second major 
goal. Baha'is identify a "Most Great 
Peace" as the next stage in the 
evolution of the planet when all 
differences between nations will be 
reconciled. The gradual establishment 
of international peace will coincide 
with the emergence of the Baha'i world 
order, which Baha'is associate with the 
millenium- the arrival of the King-
dom of God on earth. "During this 
time, 
the 
Baha'i community will 
contribute more to the search for a new 
world order, as it will already be 
apiritually grounded in the idea of 
unity," Kazemzadeh said. But Baha'is 
realize that even in the Kingdom of 
God, there will be problems. "There 
will be troublemakers," Garey said. "It 
will be a system of government in 
which the inevitable conflicts will be 
dealt with in 
a 
reasonable but 
compassionate manner. There will be 
a large place for love." 

Meanwhile, Baha'is first anticipate 
tbe establishment of a "Lesser Peace" 
that will be negotiated by secular 
means. As Kazemzadeh explained, "It 
is not an apocalyptic view that on an 
established date all guns will cease 


**A Quiet Approach to Peace: The Baha'i Faith**
**Author: Malaika Amon**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The Baha'i faith, with its emphasis on world peace and unity, is gaining followers in the United States and worldwide.  Baha'is believe that humanity is at a crossroads, possessing the technology to either unite or destroy itself. They advocate for peace on both religious and political levels, but avoid partisan politics, choosing instead to work towards positive change through community involvement and education.  Their teachings emphasize the eradication of prejudice and the importance of education, with a particular focus on educating girls.  The faith emphasizes action over words, with adherents focusing on living their beliefs as an example to others rather than through missionary work. However, Baha'is in countries like Iran face persecution for their beliefs, highlighting the challenges they face in their pursuit of peace.


**Anti-Apartheid Wall and New Energy**
**Author: John Gill**
**Page number(s): 30**

Standing at the anti-apartheid wall he designed to replace the shantytown destroyed by arson this summer, Bruce Blair (TC '81) gestures toward a pot of shriveled red flowers.  In the aftermath of the shanties' destruction, an event that sparked extraordinary outrage throughout the Yale and New Haven communities, he shrugs and begins snapping off stems in the hopes of giving the buds a chance to grow.  In furthering their political agenda, the ten core members of CAA must now determine how best to foster positive




**Title: Yale's Anti-Apartheid Coalition: A Year of Change**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
aspects of the organization while 
making a fresh break from attitudes 
and tactics that have hindered growth 
in the past. 


On June 5, police arrested Yale 
alumnus Dr. Elwood Bracey (SM '58), 
physician from West Palm Beach, 
and charged him with setting 
to the shantytown. The makeshift 
intended to mirror the living 
itions of black South Africans, 
been built by CAA members in 
to protest Yale's investment in 
:'a•m Jpam·~ :s 
that operate in 
South 
••ll\lln<:a. Bracey considered the shanties 
eyesore that desecrated some of 
most revered architecture. "I am 
in sympathy with our dictating 
South Africans should run their 
country, nor am I in sympathy 
students dictating how 
the 
~n,rn<'>r::.,ttn,n should run the Uni-
'" Bracey says. 


Far from making the anti-apartheid 
nt go away, the arson attack 
interest in the divestment 
At a hastily convened vigil the 
of the blaze, over 100 students 
city residents gathered around the 
remnants of the shanties to 
new strategies. In addition to 
expected die-hard 
Coalition 
hers, many new voices took part 
dialogue. "Although the younger 
~'""''"'""' might not have felt included 
-rP~Iln,n~•y, because they were not 
when the shanties were built, 
they were deeply touched when the 
shanties were torched," Blair says. 
•Many who hadn't been involved with 
us before spoke of their outrage. The 
shanties meant something to them." 


Out of this and other CAA meetings 
grew a commitment to pursue two 
related goals. The Coalition would 
push to secure a harsh punishment for 
Bracey, while erecting a new structure 
to replace the shantytown. 


The day after the fire, the Connecti-
cut state's attorney reduced charges 
against Bracey from first-
to third-
degree arson. Two weeks 
later, 
Bracey's lawy~r, his college roommate, 
entered a plea of not guilty and applied 
for accelerated rehabilitation (AR), a 
probationary period that precludes any 
formal trial. Each of the victims named 
in the application- Yale University, 
CAA, and the New H aven police 
and fire departments- had the right to 
appear in court on July 14 to object to 
Bracey's request for AR. Only the 
Coalition exercised this right. 


About a 
dozen CAA members 
attended the hearing. Four of them, 
including a Yale law professor, argued 
for a full-blown trial. One of those who 
spoke in court, Nancy Fishman (DC 
'88), was disturbed by Yal~s failure to 
"Many who hadn't 
been involved with us 
before spoke of their 
outrage. The shanties 
meant something to 
them." 
make a ~im ilar argument. "I think it 
says an ugly thing about the 
University," she says. 


Fishman 
believes that Yale would have been less 
accommodating towards a 
non-
alumnus. But Yale Deputy General 
Counsel William Stemple contends 
that Yale's inaction conformed with the 
University's usual posture. "I don't 
recall a case where Yale appeared in 
court to level a formal objection 
against a request for AR," he says. 


In the end, Bracey was granted 
accelerated 
rehabilitation and the 
record of his arrest will be erased in 
two years, provided he complies with the 
terms of his probation within the next 18 
months. Under these terms, Bracey 
will pay S5,000 in damages both to 
CAA and to New H aven's arson 
squad, as well as an unspecified 
amount to Yale far cleaning the granite 
slabs scorched by the fire. H e must also 
perform 400 hours of community 
service. At the specific request of the 
Coalition's 
representatives, 
100 of 
those hours will involve hands-on 
construction for a community housing 
agency. 


Despite its disappointment in the 
Bracey case, the Coalition was able to 
turn the renewed vigor of New Haven 
anti-apartheid sentiment into tangible 
gains. 


Mobilizing support for 
construction of its anti-apartheid wall, 
CAA members unearthed old phone 
lists and dialed every number they 
could find. They also encouraged 
participation of city residents by 
passing out informational leaflets on 
the New Haven Green during a 
concert. 


"We got an incredible 
response," Fishman says. "Some were 
people we'd seen before, some not. 
Some were people we hadn't seen in 
years." All told, 
more than 150 
students, New H aven activists, union 
workers, and politicians. rallied to build 
the wall on Thursday, June 16. As part 
of a series of speeches, State House 
Speaker Irving Stolberg called for the 
University to divest from companies 
doing business in South Africa. 


The very act of speaking, even more 
than the words spoken, dramatized a 
further reason for the anger incited by 
the shantytown's burning. The two 
wooden shanties had often been the 
location of rallies in the past and had 
come to symbolize not only the 
Coalition's concern for the plight of 
black South Africans, but a commit-
ment to exercising free speech. In a 
statement issued the day of the blaze, 
Yale President Benno Schmidt addressed 
this first ammendment issue directly. 
"A university must be committed to 
freedom of expression as a first 
principle, and therefore ought to 
tolerate even bizarre and eccentric 
forms of expression , 
including 
symbolic speech," Schmidt said. 


While the University voiced its 
tolerance of the Coalition's free 
expression, the precise duration of that 
expression became a 
point of 
contention . University Secretary 
Sheila Wellington granted permission 
for construction of a memorial wall for 
the weekend only. The following Mon-
day, amid threats of copy-cat arson 
against 
the structure, Wellington 
offered the University's help in 
dismantling and storing the wall so 
that it could be "reconstructed at 
discrete times and places." At a noon 
rally that day attended by U.S. 
Representative Bruce Morrison, the 
Coalition rejected Yale's offer after a 
voice vote by the approximately 120 
demonstrators present. The wall re-
mained on the site of the shanties, and 
in July, Wellington gave her belated 
sanction for its continued presence. 


Since then, the Coalition has tried to 
use the 40-foot-long plywood wall to 
divert attention from Bracey back to 
South Africa. The group plastered the 
structure with anti-apartheid slogans, 
petitions, and art, as well as a color 
photograph of the shantytown in 
flames. They intended the wall to 
inform passers-by about the racial 
policies of the South African govern-
ment, while encouraging them to 
support divestment. "It was so much 
bigger than Bracey," Fishman says. 
"We focused on teaching people about 
racism in South Africa and here. Yale 
is like a Vatican City- it tries to build 
up its own walls." 


Although the wooden wall in Rein-
ecke Plaza represents an important 
victory for the Coalition, the future of

32 The New joumaVSeptember 9, 1988 
Rosanne Adderley 
(PC '89) thinks 
that a more 
colorful racial blend 
would stJ:_:engthen 
the Coalition _;,..;.....-~-.=-. 
Against Apartheid's 
lobbying efforts. 
CAA seems to rest more on whether its 
members succeed in tearing down a 
number of walls that have. arisen 
within the anti-apartheid movement. 


In the two years since the high point of 
the Coalition's visibility- its civil 
disobedience demonstrations- inter-
nal disputes have often grown while 
membership dwindled. 


This decline in anti-apartheid 
activism at Yale reflects a larger 
national trend. Soon after the South 
African government instituted its press 
ban in 1986, divestment became a less 
popular issue across the United States. 
The lack of press coverage has made it 
increasingly difficult for CAA to 
attract people to the films, lectures, 
and rallies it sponsors. 


Still, those who have worked with 
CAA point to more immediate reasons 
why attendance at its rallies shrunk 
from 1,000 in 1986 to fewer than 100 
last spring. Most agree that some 
realignment, at least in patterns of 
thinking, will prove necessary if the 
Coalition is to increase its ranks this 
fall. "I see things picking up," Fishman 
says, "but we must change our atti-
tudes 
about 
success. 
We're 
most 
powerful on the level of education. Not 
everyone IS willing to stand up at a 
rally." 


Fishman believes that the Coalition's 
fervent 
escalation of divestment 
demonstrations in 1986 actually held 
the group back in some respects and 
scared off potential supporters. She 
now encourages low-profile activities 
such 
as letter-writing campaigns 
designed to promote awareness about 
South Africa. This summer, students 
in CAA wrote to every member of the 
Yale Corporation on the subject of 
divestment. Some Coalition repre-
sentatives even met with Corporation 
members one on one. 


In addition, Fishman stresses the 
importance of promoting ties with 
other 
a-ctivist organizations on 
campus, particularly with the Black 
Student Alliance at Yale (BSAY). In 
the last year-and-a-half, the member-
ship of CAA has become racially 
bleached. "As with any movement, 
people feel locked out, and it becomes 
a clique," she says. "I get frustrated by 
that. We don't want to be just a bunch 
of white kids sitting around talking." 


Rosanne Adderley (PC '89), 
a 
former BSA Y 
political education 
leader and a CAA member since 1985, 


The future of CAA 
seems to rest on 
whether its members 
succeed in tearing 
down a number of 
walls within the anti-
apartheid movement. 
agrees that ethnic homogeneity has 
bun the Coalition in the past. She 
believes that many of CAA's ailments 
could be cured by establishing a multi-
racial steering committee. Last year, 
BSA Y designated a representative to 
attend Coalition meetings, and 
Adderley hopes that other campus 
political groups will follow. "There is 
something very attractive about 
presenting the administration with the 
diversity and equality that they claim 
they believe in, but which their 
involvement in South African invest-
rnents suggests they don't," Adderley 
says. 


During the 1985-86 school year, 
such a steering committee lobbied the 
administration for divestment. By fall 
1986, however, the pace of divestment 
demonstrations had outrun the com-
rnittee's organizational abilities, and 
the committee collapsed. CAA later 
~grouped with a racial mix propor-
tiOnal to the composition of the 
University population, which made for 
a predominantly white membership. 
.At the same time, many blacks were 
alienated by the Coalition's decision to 
Pl'omote sit-ins that resulted in the 
art'est of some demonstrators. Accord-

**Title: Fighting Words**
**Author: Jennifer Fleissner**
**Page number(s): 36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The War of the Wordr
Sandra M. Gilbert and Susan Gubar
Yale University Press
320 pp. $22.95
"Is the pen a metaphorical penis?"
asked Sandra M. Gilbert and Susan
Gubar in The Madwoman in the Attic,
their groundbreaking 1979 study of
19th-century women writers. Gilbert
and Gubar argued that in a culture
where writing was defined as a male
activity,
many female authors
identified themselves with the figure of
the ranting madwoman. The book
became a classic, and the authors have
finally penned a sequel, titled The War
of the Wordr,
which came out last
January. This new book is only part one
of what is to be a three-part series, called
No Man's Land, examining the place of
the woman writer in the 20th century.
The primary achievement of The
War of the Wordr is the proof it provides
that gender issues have been an
undeniable force in modem literature writ-
ten by men and women alike. Gilbert and
Gubar feel that the emerging women's
movement at the turn of the century
played a key role in bringing gender
issues into the open. Satires of the
period often mocked women writers,
while science fiction
authors
~ considered the dire prospect of female-
ruled empires.
Yet even these
misogynistic works clearly considered
"the woman question" worthy of
literary consideration.

As
has been pointed out by
numerous critics, however,
most
female authors of this period are not
included in the modern literary canon.
The early 20th century's spirited
dialogue between
the sexes
has
typically been read as a monologue,
with the male perspective seen as
universal. As a result, the sexual
anxieties of modern male heroes are
perceived as generalized "metaphors of
metaphysical angst."
Gilbert and Gubar argue that the
prevalence of such angst, typical of
modernist literature, was a direct
result of the women's movement. The
Victorian conception of the sexless
woman gave way in the 20th century to
a new image, influenced by Freud, of
wild, voracious female desire that
threatened
societal
norms.
Simultaneously, male characters began
to
appear weak
and impotent,
victimized by uncontrollable new
opponents such as the two world wars,
industrialization, and Darwin's
theories.
These forces are often
considered fundamental to
the
formation of modernism. Of equal
importance, Gilbert and Gubar claim,
was the emergence of women into the
public sphere.
These women included many
authors. Gertrude Stein, Elinor Wylie,
Edna St. Vincent Millay and others
were controversial public figures who
"flaunted their sexuality through well-
publicized lesbian
affairs or
heterosexual promiscuity." Indeed, the
private lives of these women often
attracted more attention than their
work. Reviews that did appear were


**Title: A Review of *The War of the Words***
**Author: Jennifer Fleischner**
**Page number(s): 37-39**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
usually condescending. Critics ignored 
the powerful rage and fear behind 
!"luch of Wylie's poetry, praising her 
mstead as "exquisite," "dainty," and 
•refined." 

To combat this denial, many women 
writers sought assurance from the past, 
writing lovingly about the women 
authors who preceded them. Gilbert 
and Gubar call this approach 
•affiliation," in which women replace 
the patriarchal canon with their own 
female ancestry. Such a move also 
A text by the most 
extreme sexist on the 
planet can be given a 
valuable feminist 
reading. 
subverts Freud's theory that the young 
girl must turn from her mother as love 
object to her father. Gilbert and Gubar 
suggest that the arrival of the impotent 
male hero meant that fathers could 
~y appear as weak figures whose 
tnfluence might 
be overcome . 

Gradually, women writers were able to 
come into their own and find the 
female tradition that had been hidden. 
Affiliation, as defined by Gilbert 
and Gubar, is a positive move for a 
female writer. It is a fantasy in which 
an author is able to forge a bond across 
time with a literary ancestor. But 
Gilbert and Gubar feel that such a 
bond can only be achieved in the genre 
of criticism, which is not bound by 
narrative constraints. In the novel, as 
they see it, "each event inexorably 
leads to another" and thus the author 
can never step outside the linear 
progression of time. When successful, 
affiliation should result in a truly 
timeless moment. 

That Gilbert and Gubar would place 
such emphasis on this timeless moment 
is bewildering. The concept implies a 
literary standstill, in which a text's 
meaning becomes faxed. Yet do such 
moments really exist in literature? 
Reading and re-reading, which bring 
constantly changing interpretations, 
challenge any notion of literary stasis. 
Gilbert and Gubar avoid this issue 
simply by neglecting the reader 
altogether. This is the flaw which runs 
throughout The War of tlu Words, and 
which in the end makes it a limited 
study at best. It also places the authors 
within a fairly conservative, authorial-
intention school of criticism, one which 
is at odds with much feminist thought, 
particularly that which 
has been 
influenced by deconstructionist theory. 

In direct opposition to the post-
structuralist notion that a text is an 
ever-shifting entity with many possible 
readings, Gilbert and Gubar read 
every book as the concrete result of the 
author's intention- an intention they 
interpret as confidently as if they had 
just talked with the writer over lunch. 

Thus we find references to Kate 
Chopin's dealing with her "anxieties 
about [literary J repression by enacting 
them in this text," to Willa Cather's 
"clearly feeling ambivalent" about her 
protagonist, and to the science fiction 
author C.L. Moore's depicting a 
freakish female alien because of her 
own "culturally conditioned self-
loathing." 

The problem is not simply that these 
judgments often 
seem extremely 
presumptuous and irrelevant. The 
main error is that by placing all of their 
discussion squarely on the shoulders of 
the author's apparent meaning, Gilbert 
and Gubar give no authority whatso-
ever to the reader. This is a fatal 
mistake. Feminist criticism need not 
focus on labelling texts either feminist 
or not-feminist. Rather, it should 
examine the play of gender-specific 
elements that, because of the instabili-
ty of the socially constructed opposi-
tion between female and male, con· 
tradict and undermine textual struc-
ture. Because of these contradictions, a 
text by the most extreme sexist on the 
planet can be given a valuable feminist 
reading- not, that is, a reading that 
claims the author was trying to make a 
feminist statement, but one that shows 
the patriarchal structures underlying 
the text to be capable of deconstructing 
their own foundations. 

When one considers these pos-
sibilities, many of Gilbert and Gubar's 
own readings, based as they are on 
assumed authorial intentions, seem flat 
and 
cautious. 
The 
authors 
acknowledge only tentatively that a 
woman writer might have derived 
textual power from such post-modern· 
ist concepts as a decentralized self or 
writing that is "deliberately imprudent 
or impudent." This perspective is sur-
prising since the tools of subversion 
that Mary Ellmann outlined in her 
landmark feminist text Thinking About 
Womm included irony, rashness, and 
deliberate writing from a position of 
marginality. Gilbert and Gubar take 
only small steps toward affirming the 
power of these strongly feminine 
modes of language. Although they 
discuss the strengths of paradox and 
fantasy, they view such techniques as 
escapist- proving women were so 
oppressed by reality that they had to 
turn away from it- instead of positive, 
transformative forces. 

While Gilbert and Gubar appear to 
celebrate the magical and the 
speculative, they do not realize half of 
the possibilities that fantasy generates. 
This oversight is never proven more 
strongly than by their assertion that the 
novel "inexorably" leads in one 
direction. Their doggedly linear 
conception of fiction is at odds with the 
structures of much avant-garde and 
fantasy literature. And again, what of 
the reader, who must inexorably follow 
a novel toward its single meaning? 

It is not that Gilbert and Gubar are 
unaware of the theories of post· 
structuralism. In true kitchen-sink 
fashion, they pay lip service to the 
French femin ist thinkers Julia 
Kristeva, Helene Cixous, and Luce 
Irigaray in the book's final chapter, 
provocatively titled "Sexual Linguistics." 
These writers, however, are brought 
up only to be dismissed out of hand as 
"mystical" and "straining." Gilbert and 
Gubar go on to praise Virginia Woolf 
as a bulwark of "practical" criticism. 

In fact, the last chapter may be the 
most frustrating of the entire book, 
simply because it seems so promising. 
The authors begin by setting their 
famous question, "Is the pen 
a 
metaphorical penis?" in opposition to 
"Is the womb a metaphorical mouth?" 


This dichotomy-that of the "father 
speech" 
vs. 
the 
"mother 
tongue"- raises fascinating questions 
about the origins of male linguistic 
hegemony in relation to the mother's 
role 
in transmitting language. 

Strangely, though, Gilbert and Gubar 
themselves remain on the sidelines 
throughout this discussion, throwing 
forth many provocative ideas from 
radical feminist thinkers, but rarely 
commenting on them. The chapter 
concludes with a pat comment on the 
possibilities for female writers today, 
and the reader is left scratching her 
head. What was the point? 

Gilbert and Gubar do not present 
material in this book that justifies their 
current position as the grandes dames 
of American feminist criticism. They 
have a tendency, here as in MadworTUJn, 
to toss together genres and make huge 
generalizations about periods in an 
effort to be as encyclopedic as possible. 
As a result, their treatment of areas 
such as lesbian and black literature is 
thin and unsatisfying. The very 
concept of No Man's Land as a three-
part feminist extravaganza presents a 
problem. Far too many people are 
likely to take whatever Gilbert and 
Gubar write as the feminist gospel of 
the day. 

Of course, one can always hope that the 
next two volumes- to be titled Sex-
cluJnges and Letters From the Front- will 
rectify some of the wrongs of The War 
of the Words. This seems unlikely, 
however, since the earlier Madwoman 
shared many of_ this book's problems. 

In the end. Gilbert and Gubar are 
more historians than literary critics. 
They are valuable writers, for they un-
cover lines traceable through history 
that are crucial to feminist criticism. 
But in concentrating on the symbolism 
of the pen, they neglect what happens 
once the ink dries on the page- and a 
new world, a new battle, and fantasies 
that the author never imagined sud-
denly begin. 

• 
Jennifer FleisSTitr, a senior in Calhoun Col-
kg~, is on the sw.ff of TN].


**Title: The Yale University Bands 1988-89**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The Yale University Bands 1988-89 
Thomas C. Duffy, Director 
Yale Concert Band 
Sixty to seventy select brass. woodwind, and percussion players performing from the entire repertoire of symphonic wind 
music: marches, band standards, classical transcriptions, chamber wind pieces. and contemporary works, including 
special commissioned compositions. 
All indoor concerts are at 8:00pm in Woolsey Hall. 
• Sat., Oct. 8 
Parents Day Concert, with the 
Yale Glee Club & Yale Sym. Orch. 
• Fri., Oct. 28 
Fall Concert; music of Villa Lobos, 
Sullivan, Sousa, Duffy, Hindemith 
• Thu., Nov. 10 Spraeue Hall. 11:00 pro "A Little 
Night Music"- an evening of chamber 
wind music 
• Fri., Dec. 2 
Holiday Concert; music of Gabrieli, 
Anderson, and assorted holiday pieces 
• Fri., Feb. 10 Winter Concert; featuring Gershwin's 
Rhapsody in Blue, Professor Ward 
Davenny, piano 
• Fri., Apr. 7 
Una Serata Italiana;(Italian Evening) 
music of Rossini, Ponchielli, Verdi, 
Gabricli, Puccini & others: 
Tickets required (432-4111) 
• Sun., May 28 Twilight Concert; 7:00 pm -
Old Campus; featuring Tchaikovsky's 
1812 Overture with live artillery and 
the Harkness Memorial Carillon 
Yale Precision Marching Band 
120-250 musicians and others both celebrated and 
infamous for a unique blend of musical and topical satire 
performed at football games, pep rallies, and the like. 
Sept. 
17 
25 
Oct. 
1 
8 
15 
22 
29 
Nov. 
5 
12 
19 
at 
Brown 
UConn 
Navy 
Army (Parents Weekend) 
Columbia 
Penn 
Dartmouth 
Cornell 
Princeton 
Harvard 
Yale Jazz Ensemble 
A twenty-piece Big Band playing everything from Dixie-
land to classic Ellington and Basie tunes to the latest 
contemporary charts. Available for parties and dances. 
• Mon., Nov. 14-8:00 pm Sprague Hall 
• Wed., March 1-8:00 pm Sprague Hall 
• Tues .• Apr. 18- 8:00pm Sprague Hall 
• Sun., May 7 .. 12:00 noon Cross Campus 
All Yale Band concerts (Concert Band and Jazz Ensemble), unless noted otherwise, are free and open 
to the public. For more information about any aspect of the program, call432-4111 or write: Yale 
Bands, 3-A Yale Station, New Haven, CT 06520. Scheduled events may change unexpectedly. For 
verification, call 432-4113, which will have taped concert information one week before each event. 

