Publication date: February 2008
Volume: 40
Issue number: 4

**MASTHEAD:**
- Publisher: Ulltrn Harrison
- Editor-in-Chief: Jom!J Dach
- Managing Editors: \..itok Allan, J'\icle Handkr
- Designer: Rathtl Engkr
- Senior Editors: Em1!J Koh, Sophia Ltar
- Production Manager: Jordan facies
- Associate Editors: Tm Dearing, Adili Ramalerishnan, Mitchell Reich
- On-line Editors: Ben !Asman, Ali Seitz
- Research Director: 1A11ra Zax
- Copy Editor: lAura &nmlt
- Staff: Amy Fish, Pat Hayden, Matthew Lee, Sarah Nutman, Lizz~ Star, Ma1 Wang, Sarah Winsberg
- Members and Donors: Joshua Ci\-in, Peter B. Cooper, Tom Gnggs, Roger Coho, Brooks Kelley, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Kathnn Lassila, Jennifer Pitts, Hent] Schwab, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, David Slifka, Fred Sttebeigh, Thomas Strong, John Swansbwg
- Advisors: Richard Bradley, Jay Carney, Richard Conniff: Ruth Connif£: Elisha Cooper, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, Steven Weisman, Daruel Yergin
- Friends: Michael Addison, .Austin Family Fund, Steve Ballou,]. Neela Baneqec, Margaret Bauer, Emily Bazelon, Anson M Beard, Jr., Blatte Bennett, Richard Bradley, .Martha Brant, Susan Braudy, Daniel Brook, Hilary Callahan, Jay Carney, Daphne Chu,Josh Ci\in, Jonathan M. Clark, Constance Clement, .\ndy Court, !\fasi Deruson, Albert]. Fox, !\irs. Howard Fox, David Freeman, Geoffrey Fried, Sherwin Goldman, David Greenberg, Stephen Hellman, Laura HeYmann, Gerald Hwang, Walter Jacob, Jane Kamens !c)•, Tina Kelley, Roger Kirwood, Jonathan Lear, Leu-is E. Lehrman, Jim Lowe. E. Kohles Lowe, Daniel ~1urphy, Martha E. :-.:eil, Peter ~eil, Howard H 'Je-wman, Sean O'Brien, Laura Pappano,Julie Peters, ~'IS and Joan Platt, Josh Plaut, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, Fairfax C. Randal, Robert Randolph, Stuart Rohrer Arleen and \rthur Sager, Richard Shidds, W. Hampton S1dcs, lisa Sil-..."Crman. Scon Sunpson, -\dina Proposco and Dmd Sulsman, Thomas Strong, :-.Iargarita Whiteleather, Blake \'\"ilson, Daniel Yergm and r\ngela Stent Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**

From The Editor.
Immigrants struggle to lind health care. - Amy Fi1h
The Best Laid Plans - Jlli Stitz
Back to the Streets - Margot Lihn
Walking on Thin Ice - Sophia Ltar
Connecticut Pastoral - Emily Koh
Two D - Mai Wang
Bony Fingers - Pat Hayden
The Critical Edge - Jonathan Jacker
Esson - Laura Zax and Matt Haig


**Title: From The Editor.**
**Author: [No Author Listed]**
**Page number(s): 3**

In 2007, ~C\\ Ha,cn was ,Jammed \\1th the resig-
nation of !'\\O U>p pohcc officials, a federal assault 
on ib immigram populanon, a ~p1ke in shootings. 
rhe arrests of three narcotic> officers, and a rash 
of verbal vJolcnct• on Yale's campus. In a city that 
has never rccm crcd from irs repuraoon as a cnme 
and crack-ra\'aged 1con of the rwcnticth-cemury 
city gone wrong, this stnng of events could not be 
dismissed as bad luck. 

But rather than submiwng to a self-fulfilling 
characrerv.arion of their Cl['\, "ltw Haven res1dcnrs 
srood up. Ther came from (.It) Hall, synagogues, 
classrooms, and prisons w fill in for a police force 
they could no longer trust. 

The'c n:~•dcnt' came to cmbodr a new form of 
commcm!) policing. Th1s L'SUC 1' for them.


**Title: Immigrants struggle to lind health care.**
**Author: Amy Fi1h**
**Page number(s): 12**

[Content Missing - This section of the magazine was not included]


**Title: The Best Laid Plans**
**Author: Jlli Stitz**
**Page number(s): 17**



**Title: Back to the Streets**
**Author: Margot Lihn**
**Page number(s): 24**



**Title: Walking on Thin Ice**
**Author: Sophia Ltar**
**Page number(s): 32**



**Title: Connecticut Pastoral**
**Author: Emily Koh**
**Page number(s): 36**



**Title: Two D**
**Author: Mai Wang**
**Page number(s): 35**



**Title: Bony Fingers**
**Author: Pat Hayden**
**Page number(s): 40**



**Title: The Critical Edge**
**Author: Jonathan Jacker**
**Page number(s): 43**



**Title: Esson**
**Author: Laura Zax and Matt Haig**
**Page number(s): 46**




**Title: POINTS Of_ DEPARTURE**
**Author: Laura Zax**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
POINTS Of_ DEPARTURE 
Art on Architecture 
"S.\M," ,\ PSEUDOSY~Iot ~ Y \I I S'l1 D1 .._ r 
majoring in art, couiJ !>kip the l.ou\'rc: 
on his next trip to Pans. I k'd rather take 
a tour of the city\ back nllep, Jc~em:J 
train yards, and ab:mJom:d factones. s.lm 
prefers street life 10 srill life. the urban 
landscape ro oil lanJ~cnpc:;. graffiu to da 
, -mci. 

Grnfnu, Sam rcwgnizes, is a loaded 
term. It's as loaded as a can of spray 
paint under pressure. h loaJcd .Is a lone 
~'Ord on a concrete can\"as in an innL·r 
city. As loaded as the art collccror who. 
at a London art auction 10 L';lrly h:bruary. 
coughed up S191,000 for a canvas image: 
of Kate Moss spmr·paintnl by the English 
grnffiti artist known only as "ltmksy." 

The spark that charges graffiti is the 
same one thar electrifies the conHicr 
between one man's 
\"andalisrn 
and 
another's Venus dc ~hlo. "Cmffiti\ tics 
to lup-hop culrure makL· It pretty rnJical," 
Sam explains. Those ne::o run Jeep. In the 
lup-hop holy trinity, rap is the medium 
of oral e.xprcs5ion, brL-ak dancing of 
physical expression, and graffiu the mode 
of visual expression. "Graffiti is JUSt p:m 
of a way of life," says ~;un. Bur hkc ~o 
much of urban \.mcncan subculrurc, 
grnffiri has suffered rrusrcprcsentarion 
and crimin:ili:r.arion in mamstrcam society. 

Just as the contro\"ersl31 rhymes of a 
handful of prominent gangsta mpper; 
have earned rhe mustcal genre a bad 
rnp, so, too, ha~ the es,cncc of graffiu 
been skewed by a f~·w prominent aw~ts. 

"The vast majority of people involved in 
(graffiti) are not nearly as deStructive as 
the people on the surface," says Sam. 
'lot that grnffiri enthusiasts would 
argue that sprny-painting private property 
i:-o legal. It is mcontro,·erribly illegal-
indeed, Sam requested to have his name 
\\ithhcld, and many grnffiri artists sign 
their work with nicknames, "rags," which 
("lcllitate a quick geraway and also conceal 
their 1dentities. 

Bur grnffiri, also known as "tagging," 
is perhaps more threatening ro the powers 
that be nor because of how the art form 
is ~:xpressed but rather because of what 
it expresses. Grnffiti artists' usc of rhe 
medium to articulate the societal ills and 
social unrest bred by urban inequalities 
has done as much for graffiti art's minted 
reputation as the form's controversial 
canvases. Tagging is known as an avenue 
of anti-esrablishment expression, whether 
of rebellious poliocal messages, such as the 
famous 1970 rag, "Dick Ni.xon before he 
dicks you," or even controversial religious 
idea.", like the doctrine com·eyed by the 
legendary London slogan, "Clapron is 
God." "1 r's real and raw," Sam says, "and 
th.,t ~cares people." 

Sam is not only a grnffiti appreciator 
but .Jso a grnffiti artist. He certainly 
doe:> nor consider himself a criminal. "1 
don't understand how any art could be 
looked ar as crime," says Sam. Growing 
up in a small tO\\n in the '\orthwest, he 
always admired street art from afar. He 
ne\·er ragged until he moved to the Elm 
City. "You can do sruff wtth spta} prunt 
that you can't do with a brush or on a 
computer. [t has its own look to u." \Yith 
an attention to technique befitting his art 
maJor, he explains, "You can uulize the 
way the paint does drip, and you ha'Ve the 
option of hard edges or soft edges." Still, 
he harbors no illusions about graffin's 
embatded srarus as art. '~\ lor of people 
\\-ho look at classic art forms rrught not 
appreciate it." 

Bur ~>raffiti is. in fact, one of the 
world's oldest art forms. The prehistoric 
ancestors of mankind who expressed 
themselves on the walls of the La~caux 
caves \\'ere not only humanity's first 
arust.': rher were also our first taggers. 
\X'aU-·writing caught on \\;th our dist:lnt 
ancestors for the same reason it gained 
appeal m modem times. "It's so easy to 
do," says Sam. "It'~ just a can, you know. 
You go to the store and drop $3.50, and 
you're ready to rag." Tag art's com·enience 
facilitated irs modern resurgence among 
members of underground culture in 
Philadelphia and '\ew York City during 
the anriestablishmenr '60s and '70s, when 
graffiti quickly became a popular and 
populist art form. Even the etymology of 
the word graffiti. whose ancient ancestor 
is the Greck verb graphtin, "to write," 
reflects its deep roors in human culture. 

Graffiti 
i~ 
a 
reflection of 
the 
ennronment on irs environment. Because 
of its illegalir:y, taggmg embodies the 
pur:;uit of ultimate artistic freedom. "You 
can't put bounds on art," says Sam. So he 
takes the work! as his art's subject and his 
art's surface. 


**Title: Rubble Agents**
**Author: Uzzy Starr**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

Rubble Agents 
II YOLI \J :-.: rt."RH I~ 'TO llih L\JlYRI~"THr>;E 
basement of Welch Hall and talk to C.J. 
May about his team of srudenr waste 
manager:;. you might not be sure whether 
he\ discussing #6 Plastics or 00"'. In 
fact, he's talking about both, although his 
vcrsion of Bond comes equipped ·with 
garbage tongs and safety glasses, and is 
probably not wcarirg a ruxedo. 

\"\elcome 
to 
world 
of 
emironmcntal esptonagc. It's a glamorous 
adc for what amounts ro sifting through 
fr.l!;h. 

~lay, head of Yale's recycling 
program. is looking for a new way to 
confront an old problem: How do we 
make ~ure that our recyclables, carefullr 
placed in their blue, green, and brown 
bins, don't end up going out with the 
trash? 

According to .\lay, the ~olution lies 
m undercover reconnaissance. He grabs a 
leaf of bnght orange paper from his desk, 
and marks it v.ith the date. These sheets, 
crumpled up and planted 10 recycling bins 
by a coven group of Yale students, sen·e 
as tracking de"-ices. After the custo<lian 
takes out the recycling, these agents of 
ceo-espionage wait to ~ee whether the 
orange papers end up in the outdoor 
recycling bins where they belong. 

~fay draws his inspiration for dus 
operation from legendary aquatic explorer 
Jacques-Yves Cousteau. Cousteau, May 
tells me, once used blue dye to prove that 
an inland water hole was connected to the 
ocean. "He just watched, and followed 
where it led," May says. These bits of 
orange confetti are May's blue dye, and 
they have resulted in ~orne serious findings. 
Of ten buildings surveyed in the fall, five 
had custodial reams caught tossing their 
recycling into outdoor dumpsters. This, 
May emphasize~, is a crime. Recycling 
has been mandatory in Conneccicut since 
1991, when the state had the worst record 
of garbage inaneration in the nanon. 

May hopes that the "sting operation." 
as he calls it, will help hun gather enough 
hard data to find and plug the "leaks in the 
pipe" that prevent successful recycling at 
Yale. He takes the task seriously, amassmg 
evtdence as one would in a criminal trial 
and relymg on eyev.itness accounts as 
often as possible . .\fay also takes safety 
seriously. He urges me to enroll in a 
course on blood-borne pathogens if I am 
interested in joining his ream of agents. 
Delicately grabbing the edge of an invisible 
(yet somehow believably weighty) bag of 
rrash between two fingers, he mimes for 
me the correct way of handling waste to 
avoid being hurr by, say, shards of glass or 
hypodermic needles. 

Currently, the team is tiny; only two 
studentS are responsible for inspecting all 
of Yale's buildings. The more experienced 
of the two P.I.'s is a divmity ~chool 
student who, stuck in ~ew Haven over 
winter break, took advantage of Yale's 
dead campus to step up his recon '':ork. 
Operating without a uniform, he was not 
received well by building supervi.~ors, 
who saw nothing more than a stranger 
peeking into their trash. A saintly smile 
February 2008 
widens across his face as he admits that 
supenisors have called the police on 
him. 

:\lay is boss of another ~quad of 
recycling nuts-the Student Taskforce for 
Environmental Partnerslup . .\lay doesn't 
tap into the pool of STEP coordinators 
to expand the program. STLP has a 
different agenda, he explams. They're 
responsible for education in the colleges-
for distributing mi.xed·paper bms and 
Buorescem bulbs and for throwing study 
breaks. "STEP coordinators arc like 
cheerleaders," he says. "\X'e need these 
guys to be like FBI agents." 

\!though 
"spy" is a word that makes coordinators 
cringe, 1\.lay offers it up freely, even 
proudly, to his waste team. 

The program is not May's first effort 
at recychng regulation. The boldness of 
the ·waste inspeccions 1s a far leap from 
the more transparent effort that .\lay 
dubbed "recycling for muffins." He used 
to vtsit a number of sites daily, asking 
to inspect \vaste and offering pastnes 
to the building with the best recycling 
record. The program was popular among 
custo<lians and long after irs termination, 
.\lay had people calling to ask. "When arc 
you gomg to bring back the muffins?" 

~owadays, if he visitS a workplace, 
askmg about rrash and offering muffins, 
the responses are guarded. e\·en hostile. 
People who want to look through trash 
are seen as lunatics, psychopaths. potential 
terroristS; "l.ve fear anthrax in our waste 
bms and rat poison in our baked goods. 
No, muffins don't cut tt these day~. 

So l\lay's vision has cvoh·ed. Today, 
salvation depends on C.J.'s angels. ,\r the 
end of my \-isit, one of them scops by to 
tip off May about a bUtlding he suspects 
is mishandling its recychng. May potnb 
to his modest waste team. "This is when: 
they come in!" His excitement conjures an 
image-beautiful--of waste inspecrors 
in slick black uniforms descmding on 
ropes from a helicopter that hovers ju~t 
above an offending site. Hi~ eyes stray 
upward, pulled by the magnetic power of 
this fantasy-and then he laughs. Back to 
earth, back to the bowels of \\~c:lch Hall. 
back ro garbage


**Title: A Bite out of Crime**
**Author: Scott Kelfy**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

A Bite out of Crime 
0\"I.R nu t~\ST snEs \IO...,JHS, GE."lERAL 
Manager ]afar \hmed has hired nearly one 
hundred people to fiU the nine delivery 
pos1rions at his Domino's franchise at 
the corner of \X inthrop and Whalley. He 
crcles through so many new hires because 
delivering food in New Haven is a risk-y 
business. On average, one of Ahmed's 
dcliverymen is mugged each month. 

J\t those odds, and with a wage barely 
m·er the Connecticut minimum, few can 
stomach the job for long. 

"Of aU the places I've managed, 
including tn '\;ew Britain, Hamden, and 
.\bnhattan, thts 1s the worst," Ahmed says. 
"~obody wanrs ro work here because we 
ha,·e lots of problems." 

Ahmed docs not suffer alone. 
All across '\Jew Haven, food delivery 
busincs~cs regular!} 
repon incidents 
of robbery and ,;oJence against their 
employees. \ccording ro the New Haven 
Police Department, 23 deliverymen from 
14 dtffcrent businesses were mugged 
between October 4 and December 1 
of lasr year. In the last two weeks of 
January. police reported the mugging of 
three more. 

The 
crimes 
are 
relatively 
straightforward: Restaurants will get a 
call, a delivery person will head out, and, 
when he.: arm·es, a double-crossing caller 
"1.\111 threaten or intimidate him until 
rhc goods arc handed over. Somecimes 
muggers wane money, but usually irs just 
for the food. 

Recounted 
in 
newspapers 
follo\"\ing dar. these incidentS often read 
like something out of a "\\~odd's Worst" 
crime ~pccial. A culprit's usual take is the 
vc:ncable treasure crove of four dollars and 
a slice of pizza-most muggers work in 
groups and most deliverymen only carry 


**Title: Kings of the Hill**
**Author:  [Author name not provided]**
**Page number(s): 6**

Kings of the Hill 
Mo~T Frun w .\FTERJ...;oo:-;s .n C. \SA LmK\, 
a small community center in New Raven's 
Hill neighborhood, about nine teenagers 
sip Capri Sun, eat Rice Krispies Treats, and 
discuss ways to fix their neighborhood. 

Students toss their coats and backpacks 
m a corner and chat quietly in the Casa's 
basement until thetr organizer, an older 
woman named Frances Vazquez, arrives 
ro help the Hill Youth Action Team 
(HYXI) develop and carry out tts cures 
for the Hill's degradation. 

The team, created by the Hill 
Neighborhood Forum m conjunction with 
community groups Youth@Work and 
The Consultation Center, began as a six-
week leadership program in the summer 
of 2006. Like the Board of Young Adult 
Police Commissioners or New Raven's 
penodic "teen only" hearings, HYAT 
proVJdes an opportunity for young adults 
ro identify and solve problems in their 
community. It is committed to finding 
youth-based solutions and avoiding adult 
intervention whenever possible. Lindsey 
Redd, a junior at Career High School and 
one of the original members of HY:\T, 
takes that role seriously. "I want people to 
look back and say we did something," he 
says. "I want them tO say we improved the 
neighborhood." 

\'\'ith this goal in mind, HY AT hopes 
to eventually tackle loommg problems like 
teen pregnancy and gang violence. But 
for now, the group focuses on smaller-
scale proJects: taking an inventOf)' of 
abandoned houses in their neighborhood, 
organizing a cleanup of Minor Street, 
and cr.:ating a colorful banner remmding 
residents to "Keep The Hill Clean." 

The students' commitmem to action 
is evident even in the structure of their 
meetings. They open their folders and 
split in to various comminees: fundraising, 
community service, public relations, field 
trip organization, event orgaruzation, and 
design . • \s student Nicole Smith explains, 
"\X'e each serve on two comminees so that 
our jobs each week are set and everyone 
can be held accountable." She sounds 
more like the manager of a company 
than a high school junior in a sweatshirt 
and Jeans. Her professionalism is widely 
shared. 

Despite their adult work ethic, HYAT 
members exude a youthful1dealism. "The 
little steps art noticed," says Redd. He, 
like man} of his cohorts, emphasizes the 
aesthetics of the neighborhood, claiming 
they "make people act the way they 
act." Indeed, when the team ranked the 
problems plagumg their neighborhood 
last _\ugust, litter won out over cnme and 
violence. Shamonay Pittman, a high school 
freshman and "the baby of the group;' 
explains the self-perpetuating cycle. "If 
the streets aren't clean, people don't think 
that one more piece of trash matters, so 
they don't pick it up. But," she continues, 
"it's hard to walk b} when there is only 
one piece of trash on a clean street." It's 
an apt summary of the "broken windows" 
theory which "Jew York City employed ro 
fight its own problems with crime in the 
1990s. The teens often use this theory to 
express a larger hope: that their projects 
~ill make people proud to live in the Hill. 

The teens qualify this pride, tt:)"ing to 
differentiate it from that of gangs. ''We're 
sticking up for our turf in a different way, 
a non-violent way," explains Smith. 

For most, involvement with HYAT 
began as a summer job. Redd applied for a 
job through Youth@\X'otk, a New Haven 
partnership that provides employment 
opportunities for students ages 14 to 19. 
"They JUSt pur you places," he says. ''1 
JUSt ended up here." Several students cite 
similar experiences. 

Despite their coincidental beginnings 
\\--ith HYAT, many students feel invested 



**Title: The Hill's Young Activists**
**Author: Sarah Miller**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
in the team. The money is now a fnngc 
benefit. Vuqucz, the supenrisor, says, "lt 
is probably a small incentive, but ther arc 
only making minimum wage and working 
six hours a week; they're here because 
they really \~.':lilt to be." Gizelle \\·ala 
echoes dus sentiment. "I care about what 
happens to the Hill now because I mtghr 
be able to do something about it." 

These teenagers' commitmenc to 
the group and their neighborhood stems 
partly from the sense of empowerment 
HYAT gives them. "lt's an enabler," 
Smith says of the organization. The tec:m 
feel compelled to act because they arc not 
confident adult~ arc doing enough. "The 
oty should make sure that the streets arc 
dean, but the} aren't, so we're takmg over 
their job," says Ptttman. "The Mayor and 
aldermen dcfinttcl} know about us and 
some have met with us, but nothmg has 
expliody been changed," Vazquez adds. 
"There arc a lot of good politicians, but it 
usually cakes them a while to cake spccafic 
action." 

The change HYAT wants most ts the 
creation of a communi()· center; "muh 
describes it as "a place \~.·here teem on 
go when they're having problems wuh 
their famil}, a place to do homework, 
and a place where they can just chill. If 
we're nor at home or at school, we have 
no place to be." 

"The Bop and Girls Club and Casa 
Lawu arc n.'1Uy directed to younger ktds," 
Vazque:r elaborates, "but the tccnagl'ni 
are the ones who most need ic; they llfC 
the ones who get in trouble." 

It is difficult to imagine a bettl:r place 
to design the ideal community center than 
HYATs shamelessly idealistic, rigorously 
professional meeting.; beneath the Casa 
Latina. In trying to transform the Hill, 
to foster a deeper sense o f communi()· 
among its teenage ctcizens, the group ha..; 
become a model community-albeit one 
of only nine srudents-trsel£ 
-Sarah ~-llfllla/1 
February 2008 


**Title: The Thin Blue Line**
**Author: Sarah Irinsberg**
**Page number(s): 8**

As CA.\IP Y.\LR "JNos ro A o.osr, HACH fall, 
a few hundred wide-eyed freshmen gather 
m Sheffield-Sterling-Strathcona Hall for 
what has been billed as a "security meet-
ing." Upperclassmen cavon across the 
stage pretending to be bike racks and lap-
top Jocks. Their skits are destgned to im 
pan helpful safety tips: don't walk alone 
at night, always shut your door, and tn an 
emergency, use a blue phone to directly 
connect to campus police. 

Four months--or 
four years-
aftetwa.rd, few srudents "'ill have made 
use of that last ptece of advice. Though 
the comforong blue glow of a campus 
emergency phone is visible from most 
places on campus, Yale srudents rarely 
confront crisis directly. In the era of cell 
phones, there is somedung quaint about 
the nooon that students would rurn to a 
public telephone m the1r hours of need. 

According to Susan Dana Burhan~. 
manager or"security educaoon at Yale, blue 
phones were first mstalled in the 1990s 
and arc still used frequently-though 
not for the reasons one would expecL As 
blue phones can connect to any campus 
number, Burhans explains, most callers 
use blue phones ro make general campus 
calls, rather than summon the YPD. "The 
phones are used quite often because they 
are converuent and the calls are free," 
Burhans says. She even promotes blue 
phones as "a good way to save on your 
cell minutes." 

Anecdotal 
evidence 
supports 
Burham's claim. Freshman Alexa Chu 
8 
used a blue phone to call maintenance 
after her suitematc accidentally dropped 
several plates, lca,·ing broken glass and 
food spread across the Roor. Chu imended 
to use a cell phone, bur onlr knew the 
extension for mamtcnance, not its full 
phone number, so she used a blue phone 
instead. Another sruJcnt was recently 
spotted using an Old Campus blue phone 
while wearing only a rowel, presumably 
locked out of her room. 

Still, the stated purpme of the blue 
phones lS to improve security, not to aid 
srudents shon on cash or clothes. Indeed, 
Burhans says that blue phones ha\·e been 
helpful irnmedtately iollo\\ing incidents 
because "if an mcidcnt docs occur and 
the police respond ncar the sire, they 
have more of an opportunity to search 
the area right after the incident occurs." 
Without blue phones, victims might wait 
to call until after returning ro their dorms 
or aparunenrs. However, Burhans was at 
a loss to recall a orne \\'hen a call from a 
blue phone directly prc\·cnrcd a crime. 

Yale isn't the emir place where blue 
phones have caught on a~ a security 
measure. Colleges across the country 
are embracing them, from Oberlin (67 
phones) and Cornell (86) ro Johns Hopkins 
(32) and the L niverstt) of Chicago (327). 
Clocking in at four hundred-odd blue 
phones, Yale tops most other schools. 
Burhans is always asking students to 
contact her if they feel a phone should 
be added ro a particular location. But 
the phones aren't cheap. Although prices 
vary, installing a blue phone typically costs 
several thousand dollars. 

If this seems like a quarter- million 
dollar investment m maintenance hotlines, 
Code BlUe, a major seller of campus 
securit)· phones, defends irs products \\ith 
one word: deterrence. ,\ high!) visible 
blue phone lets the would-be criminal 
kno"'· that the art.'ll is well-secured. 

The blue phones han.· another 
purpose, too, one intended for both that 
room full of freshmen, and rhctr fretting, 
bill-paying parents. Those steady blue 
lights are comforting, whether they're an 
effective securitv me.tsurt• or not. 
· -Sarah Ir'insberg 


**Title: Mission: Mentor**
**Author: Edith Sang1eza**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

T111. "' \Y<.JlOL 'D <•I· TilE \ "rr-.;r I" 
J\.lauro {\[agnct ~chou! is deserted. The 
entrance ro the lm\; boxy school Is 
unimpressive: The lobby is full of fish 
tanks nnd construction-paper posters. 
But the federal~< •Vtrnmem is watching-
specifically, Carla "pmo and Z\lary Heth 
.\liklo,, two emplo1·ees whom the I•BI, in 
octwcen catchmg rerrorists and breaking 
up the mafia, has asked ro tutor kids from 
time to rime. 

lt's immediately clear that you don't 
mess with the 1'131-not even if you're 
in the third grade. Spino's first action 
upon arrwal .r tht. school was to look 
over thl "'>ruJcnr of the :'.lonth" list that 
Colcs-Cros.; pronded. One of :\hklos' 
son's fnends had occn braggmg al>out 
his Student of the \{onth status at after-
school, and ~pino wanted to make sure 
his story checked out. Luckily for hun, 
it Jtd. 

.\ccording to the J"BT website, there 
arc Adopt-a-School programs set up 
in 56 H~I fic.:ld offices and across thl' 
countr). Tlw specific programs \at') from 
mentoring and tutoring to hosting hohda) 
e\.:nt,. 1l1c goal of the inioauvc i~ "to 
help kids who arc 'at risk' or d.isadvanragcJ 
learn how w impro\-c academically and 
become ){OOd citi?ens. rrhe \'Oiumet:rsj 
hope, abon.' .111, to show kids how to resist 
bad mAucnces that could lead them ro 
crime, druK usc, gang participation, and 
viokncc." 

\t 
rhc 
"chool, 
Colc~·Cro"~ 
emphasv:cs the preventative aspect of 
the \dopt-a-School program. The agenb 
arc meant to ~e.rve as posuiYe role models 
m the liH:~ of 'tudenrs. l\lany of the 
kids come from broken homes and ha\'e 


incarcerated parents. Agents' volunteering 
with the school gives kids the opportunity 
to see authority figures in a more positive 
light, though the agents' face-time with 
the children is fairly limited. 

The partnership with the Vinnie 
Mauro School began in late 2000. At first, 
the agents participated in one-on-one 
mentoring and tutoring of the students. 
The program fell by the wayside for a 
while after 9 I 11, when the FBI realized 
it might have more pressing issues to deal 
with than helping fourth graders with 
multiplication tables. Later, a scaled-down 
version of the project was restored. Lately, 
Coles-Cross says, "we kind of know what 
we're doing a little more," and volunteers 
from the Bureau have been able to devote 
some more time to the school. 

The Bureau's interaction with the 
school is still primarily limited to special 
holiday events and presentations. For 
instance, right before winter break, agents 
from the office come to the school to 
put on a holiday party and distribute &1ft 
bags to all the students. The upcoming 
spring project is a special presentation 
on internet safety. Coles-Cross was 
particularly concerned with exposing the 
dangers of websites like MySpace. The 
agents put on presentaoons about safety 
and the FBI itself, and generally make 
themselves available to help with any 
projects or events for which the school 
might need volunteers. 

But this subdued voluntcerism is 
the full extent of the FBI's mfiltrarion 
into New 
Haven's 
public schools. 
There appear to be no creepy plots to 
indOCtrinate the nation's youth. While it 
might at first sound like an intngumg tdea, 
there is little chance that there will be any 
"Fourth Grade FBI Agent" to follow 
"Kindergarten Cop." 
-Edith Sang11eza 



**Title: Criminal Negligence**
**Author: Ally Fish**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Four years ago, a newly-arrived immigrant miscarried in the bathroom stall of St. Raphael's emergency room. "I came—a big piece of meat with blood—and I was so scared," she recalls. "And I said, 'You know what, I think I'm losing my baby right now.'" She spoke little English. Uninsured, she had been made to wait, pregnant and bleeding, for several hours at a New Haven clinic, then for another hour at St. Raphael's. "Just take Motrin," she remembers the doctors saying as they sent her home after the miscarriage. "I said, 'Should I come back?' and they said, 'Do you have insurance?' 'No.' And they said, 'Oh, no, don't come back. If you come back, you need an appointment and some insurance.'"

She would have three more miscarriages before undergoing surgery to remove uterine scar tissue. The procedure restored her fertility but left her with an unexpected five-thousand dollar debt. Though she had, by that time, heard about and qualified for free care at Yale-New Haven Hospital, her surgery was taken over without her knowledge by the Yale Medical Group, private practitioners at Yale-New Haven who do not participate in the free care program.

On a recent afternoon at Book Trader Cafe, she pulls out a picture of her daughter, now ten months old. "Now I am aware, and when I had my baby I used to go to them and said, 'Oh no no! What are you going to do?'"




**Title: The Human Cost of Healthcare**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Group? Yeah? So-l don't want you to 
touch me."' She had k·arned her lesson: 
Even in the middle of labor, she had to 
fight for her own care. 

The story has a clear ncrim, bur 
who is the perpetrator? 
ot rhe doctors 
and nurses, who dl-al wuh chaotic, 
overcrowded emergency room~. ~ot the 
immigrants, legal or illegal, \\ ho make up 
only a part of the uninsured populaoon. 
The government, maybe, b01 before 
policies can change, ,\mencans must 
resoh'e the debate o\'Cr who can and 
cannot claim government scrvtces. One 
thing is ccnam: If health care is a human 
nght. as many argue, then the lack of 
health sen;ces is a crime. 

"The other thing that is rea.llr stressful 
is medicme, because you don't have a 
special rate for that. Jr is really hard, 
really expensive." She knows people who 
buy medicine from their home countries 
or make nacural cures themselves. The 
exr.remelr sick often go back to their own 
naoons when they cannot find r.rear.rnenc 
here. The government should do more, 
she insists. But when asked what, she 
pauses. "It's hard for me to even think 
about it because of my legal situation. It's 
like you don't even exist here." 

\X'ith no cenr.ral source of health 
care information, immigrants learn to 
navigate the strange byways of 
an opaque health care '}'tt.:m. Legal 
restdents who work mimmum \l."agC jobs 
and arc not the guarduns of children 
often don't qualify for healrh insurance. 
Undocumented residents arc not only 
derued benefits but arc also often too 
terrified to ask healthcarc professionals 
for help. "All the rime you arc afraid," 
one immigrant explains. "You arc aslcing 
yourself, oh, when are they going to ask 
me for my Social Secunty?" 

The few clinics in Ne" Haven that 
accept the uninsured--<.:tther offering 
free care or charging a special fee-rarely 
offer translation services. Even those that 
do often take up ro two hours to get an 
interpreter on the phone. Emergency 
room care is limited, says Kelly Hebrank, 
a New Haven social worker. "People 
come m and say, "lou kno\1.~ I need this 
tooth pulled, it's causmg me a lot of pain.' 
And I say, 'You kno\\', )OU can go to an 
emergency clinic but only if )Our face 
is swollen. They'll only sec you if your 
face is swollen-they don't care if you're 
in pain!"' 

"\X'e don't ha~·e access to a specialist," 
say · an uninsured mother of two, 
commumicating through a 
r.rarulator. 

The woman pur:; away her daughter's 
piccure and grows serious. "Why, in a 
first class counr.ry. the human beings 
are treated as merchandise?... How is 
that possible?"  An activist with a planner and cell phone on 
the table in front of her, she speaks with 
conviction. "\'\'e are forgetting that we are 
human beings .. We are f~rgetri?g ~at." 

Non-English-speaking 
l.IT1ITltgillflts } 'b• 
must navigate the strange byways of 
rely on word of mouth to navtgate the 
decentralized and chaotic U.S. health care 
system: a patchwork of hospital programs, 
public school social servtces, and intricate 
government regulations, held together by 
an array of fund-strapped, overu.'Orked 
non-profits. 

For these U.S. residents, there is no 
health care system. 

B
ut there is a New Haven community 
that has chosen to take up the battle. 
Ftghong against insufficient care is the 
collecovc force that connects i.mnugtants 
in need wtth the people and groups that 
can help them. It is a community in which 
restdents show fierce pad e. "We're united," 
says Sandra Trevino, the execuove director 
of the Latina-interests organization Junta 
for Progressn-e Action. "I think that's one 
of the reasons why a lot of people are 
attracted to New Haven ... \Ve welcome 
our residents." The solidarity of groups 
like Junta accompanies the intimate 
bonds of residents m neighborhoods like 
Fair Haven, home to a large immigrant 
population. Junta holds adult health 


**Title: HAVEN Free Clinic**
**Author: Barbara Hirshman**
**Page number(s): 12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Visitors to HAVEN Free Clinic 
are greeted with a huge smile and a 
booming, "Buenos dias! English 
or Spanish?"
classes to reach skills from "how to talk 
to doctors" to "how to read medical 
labels." For the most part, immigrants 
say, they rely on friends and neighbors to 
advise them and to lead them to the best, 
safest places to find care.


On a recent Saturday morning, the 
streets of Fair Haven are silent except 
for the whip of winter wind. But visitors 
to HAVEN Free Clinic are greeted with 
a huge smile and a booming, "Buenos 
dias! English or Spanish?" Students from 
the Yale School of Medicine, Public 
Health, and Nursing, along with advising 
physicians and a few undergraduates, have 
run the weekly clinic since 2004. Because 
HAVEN offers both medical and social 
services, volunteers know their patients' 
biographies, from their boyfriends and 
grandchildren to their jobs and their bills. 
Barbara Hirshman 
'11, '13, a 
bubbly medical student with shining blond 
hair, looks through patients' charts and 
squeals with excitement. "We have such 
great patients coming through today!" She 
holds up a bulging folder. "Ooh, L.R.! 
Another one of our epic patients. Last 
week he brought in 15 bills." Hirshman's 
team of social service volunteers works 
to make those bills disappear. While the 
clinic itself offers only basic care, the 
volunteers negotiate with doctors and 
hospitals to secure their patients' access to 
the same expensive tests and procedures 
that insured people 
receive.  Brima 
Barber 'MED '10, an associate director 
of HAVEN, sees the work as a lesson for 
medical students used to a "well-funded 
hospital and well-insured patients." "If 
we weren't there, they wouldn't get a lot 
of these tests. These are things that are 
pretty readily available four days a week in 
the hospital, and you just go a few blocks 
away and they're not." HAVEN also copes 
with limited translation services. Today, 
the clinic expects thirty or forty patients, 
and one of two interpreters has canceled 
at the last minute. A nurse bursts into 
the lobby and demands of a volunteer, 
"Do you know Spanish? How do you say 
colonoscopy?" The girl hesitates. "Um... I 
don't know... colonoscopia?"


HAVEN teaches patients to take 
advantage of soup kitchens, public school 
systems, and community organizations like 
Lunta. The more experienced volunteers 
also serve as unofficial authorities on 
health care systems, especially the maze 
of regulations that limit access to free 
care. Yale Haven is one of the few 
providers of free care in New Haven. 
"St. Rapheal's, 
they cut the bill in half, 
but it's still not enough," Hirshman says. 
At Yale-New Haven, where the 
HAVEN group has allies, problems with 
unannounced Yale Medical Group charges 
are frequent.


Applying for free care 
requires expert maneuvering. To receive 
free care, patients must have proof that 
they do not qualify for State Administered 
General Assistance, which stipulates that 
its beneficiaries have a social security 
number. Free-care hopefuls must apply to 
SAG, receive a letter of rejection, and 
use that letter to qualify for complimentary 
care. But free care programs accept only 
one specific reason for rejection. When 
HAVEN volunteers help a patient apply 
to SAG, they include a letter asking for 
the technical category of rejection that 
serves as a ticket for free care. "We have 
had 100 percent success getting rejection," 
Hirshman says without irony.


This commitment to patient advocacy 
has given HAVEN a local reputation 
among immigrants—even those 
who 
lack 
documentation. 
HAVEN 
workers know to broach the subject 
delicately with patients. Often people 
give fraudulent Social Security numbers. 
Hirshman smiles. "I just ask, 'Did you 
get this 
social security number from 
a friend, or a cousin?'"


Before 
clinic, the HAVEN team discusses the 


**Title: The New Haven ICE Raids and Their Impact on the Community**
**Author: Amy Fish**
**Page number(s): 13-14**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
It rcall) ts a pillar tn the c mmuru 
Barber. The ,:,arurd:l\ after rhl 
(That !ocatio11 
has bee11 there 
for 3 5 )'ears 
a11d it reaf!J, zs 
a pillar 111 the 
• 
JJ 
COJJJmU1ll!J'· 
lrnnugrauun nd C.u~t m Enforcement 
ICI 
m1d~ of l au H,ncn homes. 
H \\I 
\\ rk r; \\ rncd that p:~bents 
would be fJ d 1 I \ c thc1r ho es. 'But 


Still, H \\'E'\ lS not a panacea. In 
facmg the effects of the ICE raids on 
Fair Ha,·en residents, eYen community 
clinics fell short. Tre,-ino, the young, 
elegantly-dressed executive director of 
Junta. worked ,,·ith children traumatized 
br the raid~. "These children were woken 
up by officers screaming and yelling at 
si.-.; o'clock in tl1e morning and slamming 
ilirough rht:1r doors ,,,th guns." Trevino 
formed a suppon group for the children, 
but some whom she referred to therapy 
waited months for appointments. "There 
is negligence in the health care system 
difficult for families and it can be quire 
scary for them," says Novelo. "They don't 
understand what's happening with the 
kids." 

Having learned to navigate the U.S. 
for themselves, immigrants who 
stay tO build families find a new ser 
of struggles. Undocumented parents 
struggle to obtain welfare services for 
their American-born children. Though, 
as citizens, these children are entitled to 
health care, undocumented parents don't 
know how to sign their children up for 
By 
depriving 
undocumented 
parents of heat) Sandra Trevino 
points out) the government also 
leaves y oung citizens in the cold. 
of the cuy." She speaks softly but 
emphaocally. "\\'hat happens to a child 
who's gomg through a mental health 
chaos right now?" 

\s Trevino's story illustrates, New 
Haven faces a chronic shortage of 
bilingual rherapists. Patricia Novelo heads 
the L-mno clinic at Clifford Beers, a local 
mental health cemer for children and 
families. She radmtes calm as she stops tO 
talk to children 10 the wainng room, but 
she Jcscnbes her job as a scramble to fit 
in more appointments. "\\'e ha,·e about a 
six-month wmting list at this point ... a few 
months ago we had about a year waiting 
list." 

Shortages 
make 
the 
system 
inefficient. If public schools had a large 
enough bilingual staff. they would not 
refer so man) families ro Clifford Beers. 
If Clifford Beers had a large enough 
bilingual sraff. they could make the 
most of the n:sources they already have. 
"The clinician~ end up using thetr time 
translallng. which is a waste of their time 
when thC} should be prO\·iding therapy," 
;:-.:0\-elo explains ... It IS really overwhelming 
and frusrraong." It's a chicken-and-egg 
Jilemma: The fewer a\·ailablc bilingual 
workers, the less cffcccivc those workers 
can be. ~[cam\ htlc, monolingual parents 
are left m the dark, unable to communicate 
with Enghsh-spc..'aking workers. "It is 
care. Others are simply afraid. Trevino 
describes a similar problem with heating 
assistance. In December, federal agents 
raided the Community Action Agency, a 
local non-profit that uses federal funds 
to help poor people pay heating bills. 
The agency had assisted undocumented 
residents, who don't qualify for the 
funds, by making it easy to sign up with 
a fraudulent Social Security number. By 
deprivmg undocumented parents of heat, 
Trevino points out, the government also 
leaves young citizens in the cold. "Maybe 
the children's parents don't qualify for 
this assistance, but the child does. But the 
child can't fill out the forms! So where do 
you draw the line? Will we allow American 
children to go cold for these winter 
months?" Trevino sees it as a health care 
issue. "Imagine a house that has no heat 
the entire day, entire night-what is that 
going to do to one's health?" 

Trevino is working with legislators 
to change the heating assistance policy. 
But, for now, her story stands as one 
more example of a system that ignores 
the existence of a part of the population. 
Undocumented immigrants 
in New 
Haven number an estimated ten to twelve 
thousand people-just under teo percent 
of the city's populacion. That number 
excludes their American-born children 
and the legal immigrant residents who 
share many of tl1eir problems. 

Non-profits are hard-pressed to 
provide services to these numbers. 
Medical appointments, translators, and 
funds all come up short. Activists and 
social workers across the city repeat: 
There is not enough. But New Haven isn't 
giving up. As Trevino says, "The work 
that has co be done is endless, it seems 
at times. Bur one step at a time and we're 
going 10 me right direction. And the great 
part of it all is that you're not going alone. 
You have a whole community that's going 
w1th you." That community will allow 
nothing-nor the language barrier, not 
a discouraging scarcity of resources, not 
the retaliation of the government-to get 
in its \vay. Ir will push through nacional 
health care crises, federal raids, and cold 
\vinters. It will keep ~ew Haven fighting 
for the people who have come knocking 
at its door. 
TN] 
Am.)' Fish, a junior i11 ]o11athall Edwards Colltt,e, is 
a st4f uriltr Jorn:.J. 
THE ~E\X' JOUR ... "-1.-\L 


**Title: TASED!**
**Page number(s): 15**

J 
a} Kchcx IS a roser man. 
pan-
nmc GlastonburJ, Cf pohce officer 
nd a full-nme regtonal manager for 
Ta,cr lntcrnaoonal, Kehoe dmcs a 
p(u,h, custorruzcd J Iummc:r u1m twm 
T \SER \"ani I) plates. He calls u h1' 
"double-ducy cucus wngon": h sen c' as 
patrol car and sale.; wagon. ~trapped to 
the nx>f i' a ~er of sucns, '' luch Kehoe 
uses ro chase down 'u peers wh1lc on 
du[). The 'Ides of the vcluclc c.trn T.1ser 
lntcrnaoonal\ morro: "Savmg I j, c:s I·\ cry 
Day." On the back, thert.·\ a p1crurc of 
the Tast.-r X26 The bestsdling "clc:ctromc 
control dc,;cc," 1t comes cqu1ppcd \\1th 
a da)nmc/rughmme camcra that shoots 
mfrared '1deo, a laser bc:am that acts a' a 
bullse) c, and of course, a black cartndge 
that can emu O\ er fif[) thousand 'oh 
from up to 35 feet awa\. \ 1cnms be\\ -arc. 
Kehoe wa me man m charge of 
teaching ~C\\ Ha'cn pohce officers ho\\ 
to usc thcu llC\\ weapon after the ctcy 
\"Oted m fa,or of launching a pilot roser 
progr.un Ia qear Onjul} 10, NC\\ Ha\en 
Police IA--panrnt:nt < htef I rancisco Orw: 
announced that fifty Tascr X26 gun~ 
u"Cre huong me streets of :\cu Havcrt 
In addioon to packing a po\\erful clectnc 
punch. the camera attached to m( X26 
records the acnon from me barrel of 
the gun. producmg \1dt.-o clip' that can 
be u,eJ a' C\1dcnce. ~ew HaHn's nc..'\\ 
tockptle of ra<ers j01ned caches aln."lld) 
t.'Stabh,shed m over ninccy Connecocut 
town'. 

Tasers arrived m rhc l~lm G[) afrer a 
t\\ o-year debate mer hO\\ the police force 
should respond to local cnme. Though 
\ ioknt fclonic~ m ~ew Haven\\ ere dm\ n 
9 percent last year, nonfatal shoonngs 
tncreased by 40 percent, most the result 
of cl.1shes bet\\·een officers and suspects 
that cndc..-d in gunfire. The D~-adl) I orce 
Task I orce, a counc1l composed of 13 
communi!) members. 'Ct out lO mtnlmlZ<" 
police ~hoonngs afrc.:r a local man wa~ 
gunned do\\ n for fla,hmg a kntft: at 
officers. ThC) made a rccommendmon 
to the Board oi Aldcrmcn that ro crs be 
used m'tc..-ad of dcadli.:r ucaporu, and 
me Board appro\ cd meu :-uggcsoon tn 
turn. :\ow. along u1m expandable batons, 
pepper 'Pfll). handcuff,. and ptstol~.local 
police branJi,h rhe nt."\\CSt of le s-than-
lcthal wt:apon'. 

The destgn of the Ta cr X26 mmtcs 
the shape and size of 1 gun, makmg It 
insunctlv.:l} fnmi.har to officers used ro 
handlmg piStol<. ''\\'e could ha,·e made it 
look like a toa.;rc:r instead," Kehoe JOke<, 
"but \\C wanted ro make sure officers 
uuuld know how to handle it." The 
compan) 's other models look decidedly 
less stnl,ter. The Tasc.:r C2, the ci\-ilian 
model, come~ 1n green, ptnk, blue, or 
lcop.trd pnnr. It looks like a cell phone and 
mc.lpacttares attackers ior 15 seconds. 

Despite Taser International's efforts 
to branch out to other markets, the police-
friendly Taser X26 remams its bestseller. 
The same threc-\·olt batteries that power 
digital camc:ras charge the X26. \\'hen 
d1~charged. It rc.:kases a rectangular black 
carrndgc \\ith fishhook-hkc probes that 
lodgt: into skin or clothing. \ccording to 
1:\ew Ha\Cn\ (,cneral Police Orders, any 
probe embedded tn su,pects' skm must be 
remo\ cd b) ccrufied mec.hcal peNonnel 
to 11\0td further mjuf). 

Tascrs affect the motor ncn·ous 
§) rem, disrupong the bod} 's normal 
clcctncal stgnals and cau.'ing muscle, to 
tn\ oluntaril) contract t 9 nmes per second. 
\Vhilc the ro cr's fifl) thou,and lolrs 
certatnl} sound nsk\, Ta,c:r International':> 
offictal hne mamlJUlls that electrical safety 
15 



**Title: Tasers: Shocking Controversy**
**Author: Min Fang**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
depends on not the volts but the joules. 

Kehoe insists that tasers have no ad,·erse 
effect on coronary function. "It takes 
three tO four hundred joules of energy 
to stop a heart. The taser delivers .21 
joules," Kehoe says. "Even if someone 
has a pacemaker, it v.·ould see the taser as 
electrical interference, that's it." 

After a shooting, a police supen'isor 
downloads 
the 
footage 
from 
taser's camera and records it to DVD. 
According to Rob Smuts, the city's Chief 
Administrative Officer, New Haven police 
officers have used tasers eight rimes since 
the program began last summer. The 
most recent incident involved a domestic 
l/ choc insists that the electrical output 
~rom tasers has never direcdy caused 
a death. "Tasers are generally safe. Ninety-
nine percent of the injuries related to taser 
usc arc minor ones that come from falling 
tO d1c ground." \\'bile organizations such 
as \mncsry International attribute over 
1:\\'0 hundred deaths tO taser use, Kehoe 
adrnirs to only 1:\venty cases where tasers 
were e\·en a conuibuting cause of death. 
In each of these incidents, the shock was 
compounded by drugs or preexisting heart 
problems. He Bady denies the possibility 
that the electric shock alone can kill a 
man. ln \\'atcrbury, he recounts, a naked 
man was found pitchforking his own car 
In 2005) a Colorado man was tased 
twice after allegedfy stealing lettuce 
from a Chuck E. Cheese salad bar. 
dispute in wluch the husband sprinted 
for a pistol in the bedroom, only to be 
stunned by a raser before he could reach 
the gun. "But for the taser, the man or 
the officers could have been shot fatally," 
Smuts says. "This 'vas a te>.:tbook example 
of how tascrs can step in to saw lives." 

S
ince 1999, Kehoe tells me, there have 
been over a million discharges of the 
Taser X26 nationv.:ide, including staged 
incidents during officer traming sessions. 
Kehoe has tasered over 4,500 people in 
the field and during demonstrations. He 
has been tascred 27 omcs himself. 1 ask 
him what it feels like to be immobilized 
by a bolt of electricity for five seconds. 
"Have you eYer hit your funny bone? 
Magnify that feeling o,·er your entire 
body. It's definirdr uncomfortable, bur 
when it's done, it's done," he replies. He 
makes it sound almost ordlnarr-
"This device changes the way officers 
do their job," Kehoe clauns. He relates an 
incident: A few years ago he was searching 
a house suspected of containing large 
quannties of illegal drugs. \Vhcn he gor 
there with the search ,.,-arrant, he ;tnd his 
fello\\ officers were O\'Crwhelmed by a 
snarling black dog. Though they would 
have shot the dog in the past, this time 
they were able to tascr him. "Fifteen 
minutes later," Kehoe tells me \\ith a 
smile, "1 was petting the guy." 

b) tht side of the highwa} last year. The 
man ran through 1:\\'0 plate-glass windows 
before police were able to chase down 
and tascr him. "This guy dies two or drree 
hours later, and of course the headlines 
rcaJ 'TasereJ .Man D1es' the next day. But 
you know what? The autopsy found a 
lcrh:tl dose of cocaine in Ius blood. Tha£'s 
what did it," he says. 

Regardless of Kehoe's reassurances, 
public concerns cononuc w swarm around 
rasers. \mncst) International would like 
to see more independent tcsnng, and 
has compiled a !Jst of cases in which 
Citizens h;wc been rased inappropriately. 
\ccording to \mncsry, children have 
been shocked for nusbehavmg at school. 
In 2005, a Colorado man was tased twice 
after allegedly stealing lettuce from a 
Chuck F. Cheese salad bar. But it's the 
sene~ of recent cvems at \mcrican 
umn:rsities rhat has shocked people inro 
reconsidering raser usc. \t CCLA, a 
student nan1ed .Mosrafa Tabarabaincjad 
was tasercd after refusing to show police 
his library ID card during a routine check. 
Eye\\1tnesses swore that Tabambainejad 
put up no phys1cal resistance to the police 
anJ wa" ta~cJ while being handcuffed. 
\r the L! ni\·crsit)' uf Florida, srudenc 
\ndrcw ~[C) cr was rased after hoggmg 
the m1crnphonc at a John Kerry forum. 
His protests became condensed m the 
popular catchphrase. "Don't taSe me, 
bro!" 

Student 
demonstrations 
held 
afterward declared that the police had 
used excessive force. Coupled with 
Amnesty's complaints, incidents of this 
kind suggest that police can be too hasty 
in pulling out their new weapons. 

Even in situations involving real 
crimes, police might not have the training 
to use rasers effectively. Though Smuts 
and Kehoe attest to the excellence of 
New Haven's taser program, the verdict 
outside city government remains unclear. 
Just four days after the pilot program was 
approved, police bungled the first incident 
involving rasers in the Elm City. After a 
suspect was tased for punching a police 
officer, the firefighters at the scene didn't 
know bow to remove the probes from his 
skin and had to take him to the hospital. 
Then, when no one could download the 
video evidence from the taser camera, an 
off-duty supervisor had to be summoned 
at three in the morning. 

Despite the controversy, business is 
srill good at Taser International. They're 
the only manufacturer of the taser gun, 
not to be confused with the outmoded 
stun gun that induces pain instead of 
delivering the raser's patented "electrical 
muscular interference." "Our company 
name has become its own verb," Kehoe 
proudly exclauns. 'We're like Kleenex or 
Xerox!" The company has been sued 64 
times, but so far, aU of the lawsuits have 
been dismissed. 

To prove the safety of his company's 
product, Kehoe offers to taser me so I 
can feel what it's like to be temporarily 
incapacitated. "It doesn't even have to 
touch your skin!" he promises. ''I can just 
stick the probes onto your clothing." I tell 
him I have a low pain tolerance and gendy 
turn down his offer. Kehoe says that he 
won't hold it against me. Instead, he pulls 
out a tiny silver pin from his briefcase 
and places it into my palm as a parting 
gift. The pin is a model of the Taser X26, 
reduced to one-renth of its original size. I 
put it inco my pocket for safekeeping. I'm 
sure I'll never wear the pin, but I thank 
him nonetheless. This way, no one gets 
hurt. 

1NJ 
Mm lfang, 11 sophomon in Timoti!J DJJ.ight ulfw, 
u a rtajf wriur for TN]. 
THE NEW JOURNAL


**Title: The Best Laid Plans**
**Author: Ali Seitz**
**Page number(s): 17-18**

'The Its/ of a'!} b11i/ding is how 
well it (an u.ithstand wtll-intended, 
and sometimes not so well-intended, 
(hanges. Tht q11ulion is: Is this 
lmilding pou.'trfol eno11gh on tht in-
side to u.ithrtand all thai has haJr 
ptntd to it?" 

-Paul Rudolph, Convtrsations 
u.ith Ar(hitectJ 


Y 
~·s \rt and \rchitecturc Buildmg has bct:n loved, hated, burned, partitioned, championed as a move away from the es-
>lishmcnt, and decried a~ en~rythmg wrong wirh the establi~hmcnt. This building toppled irs creator from the top of the 
trehitectural universe and, now, may wpple its renO\ -a tor as \\·ell. 

Paul Rudolph began designing the Yale \n and Ardutecturc Building in 1958, the same year he rumed fort} and became the 
dean of the Yale School of \rchirecrurc. He'd received his degree a decade easlier from Harvard's Graduate School of Design, 
where \\"'alta Gropm$ taught hun to destgn tn the clean glass box of the lnternacional Style, then spreading across the country. 
Rudolph's first dr-J\\10~ of the A& \ showed a building just as open and squeak\· clean. 

But mw the course of five planning stages, the drawings began to show something encirely new. H uge, concrete pillars dropped 
\"crtically mro the structure. Thirry-se\cn mrerlocking levels spun out, slicing through the cavernous central space. 
"h was championed when it was first built because it was a move away from the glass box," says Yale School of Architecture 
Profes~or \kc Purves, a graduate <tudcnt in architecture at Yale while the A&A \\'llS bemg constructed. 

Rudolph's behemoth could nor be accomplished alone. He met his enabler m Charles Solomon, the cn.."am·e executive vice pres-
tdent o f \lacombcr Construction To n:ach \\hat Rudolph called "the inner guts of the concrete," the company crt."ated sample after 
sample, hammering w expose the aggregate and crearc channels for staining. At first, the construction worke~ didn't take to the 
new matccal. Battered concrete would be used elsewhere by Rudolph and others in coming years, but the ,.\&A ~-as its debut. The 
Fcbruan 2008 


beating was labor·tntl'fN\C and affromed 
any convenoonal nooon of lx>au£). l·,cn-
rually, though. the \\ork lx:came exciting. 
\X'orken; began to bring thetr '' 1\Cs or 
girlfriends after hour> to sec. Rtstng our 
of the street corner was a rebclhon in the 
making, a simster responst· to old con-
straints: Brutalism. 

Toda), a ne\\ building is nstng along-
side Jt. Ltke the onginal, some h;l\·c hailed 
it as a work of art; many others ha,·c con-
demned it as a sacrilege. 

n udolph .mJ 'mlomon craftnl a con 
J:\...crete man "It\ a strong archttec-
ture," sap Karsten llarncs, .t Yale phi-
losoph} professor \\ ho 'Pl'CtlhZl'S tn art 
and archttecturc. "I ha\c an enc)dopcJta 
tn German. UnUr't Brutahsm, thl'} onl) il-
lustrate one butldtng ... " llarnes tnuls off. 
Rudolph\. 

\s an icon of unfncndl) archuo.:crun:, 
the \& \ seem' to restst an adJmon, but 
Rudolph had em t~toncJ one all along 
According to the dc,tgncr, all bmldm~. 
including his O\\ n, m forl'\l'f unfimshcd. 
"One charactensnc of thc t\\cnocth cen-
tury ts that norhmg ts l'Hr completed, 
nothing ts cver fixnl,'' hl· satd. Build 
ings should al\\ .t) s .muctpatc cxpanston. 

whether of the buildmg usclf or of mhcr 
buildings around lt .• :\rchnecrs lea\ e clues 
\\1thin their buildings that tnntc continua-
non. Rudolph picked up on Louts Kahn's 
and aligned the \& \ \\;th an axts of 
Rising out of 
the street corner 
was a rebellion 
in the makingy a 
sinister response 
to old constraints: 
Brutalism. 

Kahn\ \rt Gallery. He disparagcd what 
he called "templcs''-butldmgs concetved 
as ~df-conrained untts, without regard for 
rhe structures around them. One of his 
h:u-shest cricictsms of :\lies \'an der Rohe, 
another propagator of the glass box, \\.aS 
that a building of his "may be eighty sto-
nes high, but, nevenheless, conceprually 
a temple." 

"Whether the :\&:\ Building is in-
compkte or satisfying is for others to 
judge," Rudolph assened. Although he 
would rather have seen the structure ex-
pand southwest oYer Chapel and York 
Streets as a continuation of the pinwheel 
motion of the building's upper floors, 
Rudolph placed the service core, which 
incluJed the elevators, on the building's 
other siJe to facilitate an expansion north. 
He left clues bestdes the pinwheel and the 
service core. "If the next architect is at 
all sensttive," Rudolph said, "he will com-
plete the courtyard, thereby adding im-
measurably to the whole." 

n udolph dtdn't begin his career b}' 
~estgrung buildings that begged to 
be challenged. He began \vith pretty, airy 
hou.ses m Florida. Bur around the time 
Rudolph became the dean at Yale, his 
\\ork grew hea,;er, more massiVe. 

Thts shift is marked by Sarasota Se-
ntor Htgh School It is very florida, very 
open, but tt knows the wetght of its walls. 
\'\ hen the closest surface is r.v.·emy feet 
a-w-ay, It gives the impression of towering 



**Title:  Untitled**
**Author: Sandy Isenstadt**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
over you. Most 'l.valls m Rudolph's Aonda 
hou5es mtended to be IJ1lllUtenal, like 
cloth panels, ro lc:r m the breeze, or ttan~­
parent, like glass, to let m the palm tree~. 
Rudolph'~> 'chool, hke hts hous<.~. all0\1."5 
the wind, but Roars giganuc form~ above 
and around the :wv.'lly. Its \l.1de step~ lead 
up to an expansrve entrance surrounded 
by huge planes. The \& \ lets almost 
nothing m. From outside, the ~tratght 
vertical walls seem to sm:tch hnutlessly 
sk}wa.rd. An invtungh wide ~et of stairs, 
similar to those tn s~ra~ora, leads to not 
an open entrance bur a clump of scored 
bicycles. The seemmg dead end ts punc-
rured by a non·dc~cnpt door to tts nght 
Through u, there ts another \l.1de swr-
case, this one \l.1th obscenely low cetlin~. 
T\l.·o feet shallo\l.·er and they would nic.lr 
passmg ~kulls. The dank, gloomy stairwell 
IS puncruatcd br opcrungs to t'llch succes-
s~·e floor. Orange sofas are caned out 
of random nook.s on the bndings. Tht'} 
chuckle as '-isirors dodge the sharp edges 
on the tum' The walls arc Jagged and 
stained, \l.'lth sharp knobb) ndges reach-
ing out\l.wd!>, waiting to grab at any loose 
piece of clothing or skin. 

Emctgtng from the staJ.r\1. ell at the 
$eventh Boor, one enters a gigantic draft-
mg room filled uith harned students 
and tight. 

The room e>okes Sarasota. The con-
fficung gra\1t)' and expansivene's of the 
space made one feel the \l.'lllb despttc 
tht:ir distance. The Sarasota \\'lllls ~cern 
harmless enough, but these arc rough, 
alien, monolith, different alwgether. 

T
hough Rudolph's building was sup· 
posed to satisfy both the artists and 
the architects, he was gtven very few re-
strictions. At the inauguration of hts ,\n 
and Architecture Building in 1963, the 
architectural historian "ik')laus 
Pev~­
ner prophesized that the buildmg would 
pndc goes unchecked. .\s dean of the 
School of \rchnccturc, Rudolph \l.'llS his 
o\\n cit em. The University footed the bill. 
Yale's pre!;Jdent at the rime, A. \'Humer 
Gn,\\uld, enthustasocally funded mod-
ern architecture. Ingalls Rink, Morse and 
Ezra ~riles Colleges, rhe Bcittecke, the :\.n 
Gallet}. Kltnc Biolog~ Tower, Greeler 
Forestr} I aborarorr, and Rudolph's own 
Marned Student Housing all rose up un-
der ( ,nswold. He gave Rudolph free rein 
over the \&A 

Despttc consultations with the paint-
tng and sculpture faculty, Rudolph orily 
plt-ased the architects. He relegated the 
painters t<> tiny studios on the se,·enth 
~t its bes~ it stirs us from our 
complacenry. n 

fail. A work of architecrurc should be a 
product of both funcoon and art, he ar-
gued, and if it fails in one, It should be 
dismissed. 

.\(any consider the A~\ an example 
of \!.hat happens when an architect\ 
Roor and the sculptors to rooms in the 
ba cmem. \t the time, absrracr exprcs-
stont~m \\'llS S\l.ecpmg the department. 
'Ibc artiStS wanted larger and larger can-
\'llSCS, but the \&. \'~ ele~'lltors and staJ.r-
\\ell kept the canvases to a certain s12e. 


---

Even the architects were unhappY, though 
they were given the best spaces. Some be-
gan to erect temporary barrier.;, parritioo-
mg the open space to shield themselves 
from the constant scrutiny of their peers. 
In June of 1969, the ,\& \ caught 
fire. The Ne'"' Haven fire chief suspected 
arson. The blaze mcinerated any evtdence, 
but rumors Re\\~ Many students then and 
now believe the arson was retaliation for 
the closing of the school's cn:y-planning 
department. \lan) believe that "'ew Ha-
ven teenagers set the fire. \lanv blame 
disgruntled students, dissatisfied , .. ith 
Yale's supposed mdifferencc rowards the 
ans and convmced that the unfriendly 
1\&A embodied that sentimenr. 

After the fire, the sculptor.; packed up 
and moved out, decamping to a different 
building entirely. The painters and the ar-
chitects S\\1tchcd places, the former im-
mediately pamnonmg the founh floor to 
make studim. Screens darkened the glass 
on the extenor of the building, and the 
glass sheets themselves were subdh;ded. 
Any beauty the building p<me,scd in irs 
light, open space~ was rernO\ed. Instead 
of a light filled, if cavernous, void, the 
space inside became, as Purves recalls, "a 
dark bole." 

C
harle~ Gwathrney is 
re~roring the 
void--'.l.nd filling a hole next door. 
He has undertaken the long·awaned 
renovation of the A&\ and rhe addttion 
of a ne\\· Hi~rory of .\rt Building. The 
\&A's restoranon will adhere as closely 
to Rudolph's firushed plans as possible 
and undo yc.m of panitionang ;\nd orher 
alterations. Gwathmey studied at Yale un-
der Rudolph dunng the \& \'s inirial con· 
struction. Rolx t \.\1. Srcrn, thl' current 
dean of the \ale School of \rchitecture 
and a former classmate of G\\ .uhmey's, 
insists that Gw.\thrney "is very respect-
ful of the building." Gwathmey credits 
Rudolph as a mentor, and has continually 
stressed that he wants the addition to be 
sensitive to the \&\-to "find the real 
ethic ... and extend and enrich it." 

Unlike Rudolph, who had onlr ro 
obey himself, Gwathmey must subrrut to 
the School of \rchirecture, the History 
of \n Department, the .\rts l.Jbrary, and 
the President's office. He ha.~ ro constder 
cost, usage, building codes, ,10d other 
restrictions. The: fate of fellow architect 
Richard 
~feic:r U'UTled Gw-athmey of 
the consequences o f O\·ershooting the 
proJect's l.inuts. \Icier had planned a light, 
glassy addition that echoed the votd be· 
rween the rwo rismg verticals in the \&A 
b) placing a third to the north. The center 
atrium, though, reqwred that ilie office 
space, and the cJas,rooms, be smashed 
up agamst one sadc of the building. The 
l\leier scheme was roo tall, and, ultimately, 
too cxpensi\·e. 

Rudolph 
rnccn~ed colleagues b)· 
moving slow!) and repeatedly changing 
By 
his 
own 
accoun~ Charles 
Gwathmey 
designed 
the 
addition in three 
weeks. 
has destgn. \fter losing time u;th \(cier, 
rhe l ruversiry imposed a tight sched-
ule on Gwathmey. By his own account, 
G\\ at'uney desagncd the addition in three 
\\ec:ks. 

\!though Rudolph failed man} of 
the 1\&Xs user.;, perhaps because of the 
tremendous freedom he was gtven, the 
bualdang fulfilled ats educational funcnon 
under the architect's definition. He built 
rhc \&.\ ro inspare, and to \\ithstand, 
radacal shifts in optnion. The pendulum 
swangs eYen among deans of Yale's School 
of \rchitecrure, from Charles \woore, 
Rudolph's succes>or, who thought that 
the \&.\ excrnphlied where modernism 
went wrong, to ~tern, obsessed with Jts 
resroraoon. 

Rudolph didn't care if somebody liked 
his bwlding. He Je,cribed it as a ",ound-
ang board" or a ''stgnposr." ·~\tars best, it 
srirs us from our complacency," says Has-
to!') of \rt Professor Sandy Isensmdr. i\ 
student should n.'act to the .\&A. "The 
worst fare from m} \'lewpoint would be 
mdaffercncc..'' Rudolph said. 

"Dc~tgrung. \\1th Rudolph, ""3' more 
like puzzle-soh;ng," Purves says. Rudolph 
pieced together the ,\&..\ based on his 
adeas about architectural education. The 
drafttng rooms \\eTc multilevel, based on 
Rudolph's idea that the younger students 
should know what the older students were 
doing. "You looked down," he explained. 
The jury was placed right in the middle 
of the exhibition space on the second 
Boor. Purves readily admits that assuming 
the painters would oblige this philosophy 
was a big mistake. He says that the design 
may be too public even for the architects. 
"Too much like throwing people into 
the lion\ den," he hazards. Architecture 
studcms call it "the p1r." Even the walls 
assaulted. "I have a number of brwsed 
knuckles from reaching for doorways,'' 
Purves says, holding out a pair of weath· 
ered hands. 

\VJith the new HistoC) of Art Build 
W ing, Gwathmey treads a fine lme 
between respecting and challenging Ru· 
dolph's expression of power. Gwathmey 
must respond to Rudolph's building, but 
at the same time, says Stern, "You don't 
want the building to look like Sancho 
Panza tilong at a concrete windmill." 

"The History of \rt Department 
wanted to have an 1dentiry and presence. 
They didn't want to have JUSt an anony-
mous building," explams Thomas Lever-
ing, the Gwathmey Siegel associate part· 
ncr working on the project. 

School of Architecrure Professor 
Alan Planus understands Gwathmey's di· 
lemma. "It's an extremely serious building 
io the sense that it tries to relate to the 
[A&.\], yet have its own identity." 

The addition also must span the gap 
berwcen a giant, the \&\,and a Lilhpu· 
tian, the delicate, Gothtc building that 
houses the Yale D:zi/r News. ''How do 
you place a building between these ~ 
unequal neighbors?" Harries asks. In the 
models for the addition, a diagonal exte· 
rior wall juts out from the corner of the 
smaller building. The monumental new 
strucrure eats the Yale Daif> Nt111s. "The 
whole thing reminds of some sad fairy 
tale, espcciall} as the tower grou-"S taller 
and dwarfs the Bnron Hadden Memorial 
Building," says YD1\ Editor-in-Chief An-
drew I\.langino. 

he fairy tale is widclr read. If Ru· 
dolph's building unposes an atmo-
sphere of surveillance on his students, 
G\\-athmey 1s bemg watched, nor only by 
h.ts clients fr, om above, but also by a gen· 
eration of ~tudeots from belov.: 

THE ='E\'\' JOGRNAL 



**Title: Yale's Art & Architecture Building: A Conversation**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
G\\ .uhmc} ts dcfaung th( \& \, 
ruinmg the cxcttl'ln~nt of tt, sap Yonah 
1-rccmark, a scruor archnccturc maJor. 
The matenals, me ludmg bnght 7.mc, gla' . 
and alummum, \\til make the addinon out-
shme the \&A, he sa}:.. "It's too tlash}." 
Other student:; agree \\1th htm. 
"\ lot of people sJ} It looks like can 
d):· 'a}:. \lcxandcr "a~ aroh, another un-
dergraduate arclutccturc maJor, annO} cd 
b) the addinon's m\ nad matcnals and 
shapes. "He wa JUSt gomg to the buffet 
bc,tdc htm and ptckmg \\hat he liked" 


Despite complamts, (,,,athmc} be-
hc:'c:' the structure succeeds m rcferenc 
mg the ongmal hu!IJtng. Its gnrg.mtuan 
mass t!m1':> from rhe \& \. The (,rear 
Hall, \lhich spans the b,t,ctmnt and first 
and second floor,, echoes the.: 
\& \'s 
large, muln-floor \otJs. The limestone 
subtl) references the concrt•te. Tht• ccnta 
\'Oid bct\lccn the t\\0 \Crnc.tl to\\ns of 
the \& \ IS JupltcateJ and turned m,tJe 
out b) a large block extmdmg out of tltc 
addmon. The addtnon's d1agonals and 
cunc,, on the other hand, arc meant as a 
counrcrpomt 10 Rudolph's nght angles. 
"\o how did you decide what to 
c1 ,·merpoint tn Rudolph's building and 
what ro rake more direcd} from tt?" I 
asked Gwathmey. 


He laughed. "1 don't thtnk it worb 
that wa). I think that there w~b a clear 
planntng obligation." Unlike the under-
graduates, he's had ro fulfill his obligauon 
ro various Yale department:. on a nght 
orne table. 


But Frcemark sa~ s those obhgations 
were part of the problem. "Building:-. 
should not be designed on the fly. \\ hat 
the fuck!? Who can build a buildmg tn 
thn.:e weeks?" 


A s Levering walks through the inter-
Il.Jocking b·els of the \& \ and the 
new Hisrory of ,\rt Buildtng from bot-
tom to top, he explains how the rear ww-
er clemem holds the new interconnecting 
fire stair. resrrooms, and scn.,ce cle\-ator, 
ho\\ the second floor looks up inro the 
thtrd and down into the libraf), and hO\\ 
the "monumental staJ.r" of the addmon 
a~cends through the larger space. The ad-
cliuon I" user-friend!~. T thought. It seems 
like a grt-at place to attend class. 


The new entrance lies JUSt to the side 
of the 1ld one. It\ a bit more open and 
\\ clcomtng than the origmal entrance. 
"\\as 11 meant to be?'' 


"1 \muiJ Sa), probabl). yeah," LeYer-
ing an'" ere d. 


Gw:uhmt:} ·, building is a synthests 
of the man} d1ffercnt \otces whi!;penng 
m hts <:ar, an nns\\cr to the set of clue:. he 
had to collect from Rudolph\ builcling, 
from the surrounding strcetscape, and 
from the various departments. \s Isen-
staJt ,,tvs, "lie juggles a lot, and appears 
to put them together well." 


Kahn anJ Rudolph were al\\'ays con-
cerned With ho\\ thctr buildings would 
look as ru1ns. Kahn, Purves explains, had 
trouble \\ith roofs because his favorite 
buildtngs were ruins. Rudolph's .-\&A 
has al\\ays had the stony, monumental 
aura of a ruin, whether burned out or 
b'l.lsslcd up. 


Gwarhmc} \ bmlding tsn't a ruin. It 
IS funcnonal, usable. Detractors complain 
about its form. but nobod) doubts that it 
w11l work. 


Rudolph':> building, on the other 
hand, 1S difficult. It has never '.l."Orked. lt 
IS building as $culpture. Students learn to 
Ion: it--or don't. 


The buildings embody one of the 
oldest debates in the history of archi· 
tecture. The ,\&A errs on the s1de of 
form. The addioon errs on the ~1de of 
funcoon. 


T
he A&A, for all of the serious pos-
runng in Its concrete fa<;ade. has a 
sense of humor. Rudolph thought bwld-
mgs should. It laughs at the acadenues 
trylllg to find the library, and It laughs 
u1th the students after they understand Its 
ms1de~. It had a good laugh at the pamtcrs 
and sculptors before tt threw them out. lr 
laughs at anybody who equated aesthetic~ 
to beauty. It laughs at generations of Yale 
undergraduate~ who just don't under-
stand. It laughs at its maker. dethroned 
from the U.S. architectural establishment. 
It may very \l:elllaugh at its renovator. 


The stairwell is meant to be a little: 
stde. Rudolph vellc:d, "But u\ not a public 
building." ::,rudents, only studrnts, \l.cre 
suppo cd · . Jearn what Rudolph called 
"the purpose!)' secret, lab)nnth-like et.r-
culanon sptem." 


Over orne, when one walks up that 
dank stlurwell, tt feels like \1StUng an old 
fnend. 


The new building \nil function bet· 
tcr m a traditional sense. \X hen students 
enter the History of \n building in the 
fall, exposed aggregate on the floors 
'.l.-on't tnp them and battered concrete on 
the walls u-on't bruJSe them Education 
\1.111 take place easil) tnSJde n. But will 1t 
ever educate like the A&A? \ggrav:ue?-
Insptrc? Do what Rudolph felt a butlding 
should do? 

**Title: Back to the Streets**
**Author: Nicole Allan**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Back to the Streets 
Ex-cons fight for the city's toughest ten percent. 


**Title:  Untitled**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

'What's up, fellas?' Miss Shirley asks, sauntering around the classroom in a gray skirt suit, knee highs, and red hoops. 'Everybody go to school today?' 
The eight boys and three girls, slouched in their hoodies and windbreakers, look between 14 and 18 years old. They say nothing. 
Miss Shirley reaches this life skills class four days a week, but she never knows who will show up. Many kids are court-ordered to attend, some are brought in by fed-up parents or grandparents, and still others are recruited by the New Haven Family Alliance, a non-profit organization that organizes the class. Today's session began late, at 4:30 instead of 4:00, and people continue to trickle in. Before long, there are 15 boys and six girls. Miss Shirley has scrawled 'Transferrable Skills' [sic] on a big sheet of paper. She asks the class for a definition. 
George, who has just sauntered in, raises his hand. He's wearing stonewashed jeans, spotless yellow and blue sneakers, and a North Face jacket. 'It's when you take something from life, from school, and apply it to something like a job,' he tells Miss Shirley. 'Say you count money real good selling drugs, then you can count money real good somewhere else.' 
Miss Shirley had planned an exercise in which the kids would brainstorm what skills a housewife could market if her husband got injured, but she changes her tack. 'Everybody know what the definition of a drug dealer is, right?' she asks. They laugh. She asks them to shout out a drug dealer's transferable skills. 
'They can save money.' 
'They're a chemist.' 
'They can cook, too!' 
'They can measure.' 
'They can bag up, chop, break down,' the kids say. 'They can talk, they can sell, they can run.' Miss Shirley scribbles skills on the paper, and the group decides that a drug dealer could get a job as a car salesman, a carpenter, an inventor, or a scientist. 
'If I'm a drug dealer, can I be a cop?' Miss Shirley asks. 
'Sure you can,' says a boy called Bobo. 'Look at 'em right now.' He's referring to Billy White, a New Haven narcotics cop arrested last spring for on-duty theft and bribery. His scandal prompted an FBI probe into the narcotics department, which produced two more arrests. 
A man by the door chimes in. 'If you're a cop you could be the one to change how people are being treated, you could turn around what's going wrong,' he says. He's older than the kids, around forty, and his long braids are covered with a knit cap. He has a diamond hoop in one ear and a diamond stud in the other. His name is Blest Peters, but the kids know him as Blest. 


Blest has reformed himself since he dealt cocaine in the '80s. Today, he is part of New Haven's Street Outreach Team, which was launched last July. At night, he dons a bright purple jacket with 'NEW HAVEN STREET TEAM' stamped on the back, drives around the city in a minivan, and talks to kids. He works for the New Haven Family Alliance and is paid by private organizations and the state. He receives information from the police but gives none in return. 


New Haven residents, who have witnessed the unfolding of a police corruption scandal during one of the worst spikes in violent shootings the city has seen since the notorious early '90s, are looking beyond traditional policing to protect their homes and families. For many, the most troubling fact is how much of the violence is committed by teenagers, and they are hoping that former Chief Ortiz's resignation caps a 60 percent spike in firearm-related homicides from 2005 to 2006. 


criminals like Blest and the seven other street outreach workers will help check escalating youth gun violence by showing kids how they got off the streets and why it's worth the effort. 
When a girl says that she gave back to the community when she was selling drugs by buying book bags for all the kids on her block, Blest breaks in. 'If drugs gave back to the community, the community wouldn't be in the state it's in.' Blest speaks with the authority of experience. 'Book bags are good, but if kids are on the streets not going to school, then those book bags are empty, there's no knowledge in them.' Blest likes to speak in aphorisms. 
'Some of us drug dealers have morals,' protests George, who is living in a group home and trying to straighten out. While he was selling crack, he sold to a woman he didn't realize was his friend's mom until he knocked on her door to deliver a baggie. His friend answered. 'I felt that was wrong cuz it was my homeboy's mother,' he says. He stopped selling to her. 


By now, kids fill every chair in the room, and they're talking over each other, trying to squeeze in stories of fathers who left them, cousins who betrayed them, and babies they don't want to grow up like them. 
A booming voice cuts through the buzz. A short woman in a skintight, pale blue sweatshirt with half-moon sweat stains stands on her tiptoes and waves her arms. 'Everybody knows it's wrong,' says Monique 'Mo' Cooper, another street outreach worker. 'It's just our way of surviving. Somebody passed it on to us. It's a selfish game out there in the street.' 
'Nobody wants to sell crack to someone's mother,' Mo says, 'but sometimes it's just what you gotta do.' 
But she doesn't push any more. She broke the cycle. And that, presumably, is what they're all here for. 
A boy named Milton says he, too, is trying to break the cycle, but his friends won't let him. They don't want him to stop selling or get off the streets, and he knows they'll come after him if he does. 
Miss Shirley advises Milton to run, to do what it takes to get out of the game, but Milton shrugs. No way he'll run. 
Other kids agree, talking over each other again, until street outreach worker Anthony 'Ant' Ward pulls up his sweater and shouts, 'I wish I ran! I wish I ran!' 
All eyes in the room are fixed on a foot-long, inch-deep, jagged scar running through Ant's belly fat. 'I was stupid, I was stupid, I was so stupid,' Ant says into


Despite the city's overall declining crime rates, New Haven kids are shooting each other more and more often. In the summer of 2006, the city was shocked by the deaths of Jajuana Cole and Justus Suggs, both 13-year-olds who stayed out of trouble but got in the way of angry kids with guns. Cole and Suggs were part of the 90 percent of New Haven youth who, according to downtown alderwoman Bitsy Clark, are far from troublemakers but still at risk. 
Clark is chair of the aldermanic Youth Services Committee. In the midst of a recent citywide debate over whether to institute a youth curfew, she heard again and again from the police that, as she puts it, 'there were a corps of kids in the city that were causing the problems, that were at the core of the issues.' So she and Community Services Administrator Kica Matos did some research. The pair concluded that only 3 percent of the city's youth were involved in criminal activity, and 1 percent were at risk of heading in that direction. 
When Clark and Matos examined New Haven's youth programs—its after-school activities, summer camps, and mentoring partnerships—they realized that all of them were directed at the well-behaved 90 percent. The troublemakers, it seemed, were left to the police. 
Matos and Clark began to research programs aimed at the at-risk youth population in other cities. They soon learned about Providence's Institute for the Study and Practice of Nonviolence, which garnered national publicity for hiring ex-junkies as street workers. These social workers with unconventional pasts head to the hospital after a shooting, hook kids up with educational and occupational resources, and act as father figures to many who are already fathers themselves. 
Many consider this strategy an ideal form of community policing, a concept which has been around for decades but was spotlighted by President Bill Clinton's Community-Oriented Policing Services (COPS) program. Included in the 1994 Crime Bill, COPS promised to put a hundred thousand new cops on the street so that cities could continue to fund walking old-fashioned beats. The idea was that if the police established a constant neighborhood presence and got to know the people they were policing, the new officers would pay for themselves in the crimes they prevented. Though COPS finished twenty thousand officers short of its goal, it contributed to the 33 percent drop in the national violent crime rate during Clinton's eight years in office. 
'I am a strong proponent, an ardent proponent of community policing,' outgoing New Haven Police Chief Francisco Ortiz asserts. 'I think it's a way of life for policing in New Haven. It is institutionalized here in our department from top to bottom, to our community, and officers would have it no other way.' New Haven embraced community policing in 1990, under Chief Nicholas Pastore. Since doing so, the city's crime rate has dropped 56 percent. COPS funding helped nurture this approach. Despite a series of Bush administration budget cuts that have severely reduced federal funding of local policing, Ortiz, who became chief in 2003 after working his way up through the department, has remained vocally committed to the practice of community policing. 
An external panel called in to review the police department in the midst of the narcotics probe, however, has observed a recent decline in New Haven's community policing practices. And in November, Ortiz announced his resignation. He will stay on until the city completes a national search for a new chief to rebuild the



**Title: POLICE DISTRICTS**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
- POLICE DISTRICTS 
Tyrone \\bcon. coordinator of the sttt'Ct outreach worker progr.un, sr.mds before a map of policL· dtstricts. 
emb:mled department. 
RobSmuts,dc:purychief administmm e 
officer for \vayor John 
De~tefano, 
descnbcs the commitment nece"ar} to 
nwnram post-COPS commuruty poliang. 
"\'\e're talking millions annually, n's not 
trump changr. Some of the challenges 
\\e hau• n.'ll.ll) relate to the number of 
officc:rs," he explains, adding that the 
acy has commined taXpayer money to 
fund neu officers who will be as,igned 
to "bears and things that are really the 
background of community poliC1ng." 
Yet Oroz's rCSJgiUrion 
cap~ a 60 
percent !~ptke m firearm-rclat(.-d horruc1des 
from 2005 to 2006. "\'<'hen }OU look at 
public safety as a challenge," ~murs says, 
")ou ha\e both the nwnbers, and :-:eu 
Hn,cn's domg ~cry well by the nwnbcrs, 
but you also look ar how people feel tn 
the commurucy and whether people fed 
safe." The recent spike in shoonngs, he 
explain , "undcrrnmes people'< 
~en-:e 
of afecy." \X nh a police department 
m trnn mon, 
ew Haven cio.zens are 
eektng altcrnaovc mc:thods of kecpmg 
thctr nC!f!hborhocxh safe. 
28 
\X'hile Omz sa} s the rrect outreach 
worker program 1, "nbsolutel>" a form 
of communicy 
poliang, \lntos, the 
commurut} 
~en,ce" admim trator \\ ho 
dc\"loped the program and snll oHrsees 
1t for the Cit). ~~ cafl·ful to disrance the 
outreach worker from an} den\'llll\ e of 
the uord "police." 
"I thmk tt complements communi[} 
pohcing,'' she 'a's slo\\ 1), "but I uould 
classifj. it a~ a youth alh ocac\ program.'' 


\X'hen \lato' and Clark began to 
recreate Pro\'1dence's succc s m the Elm 
Clcy. th(.1 turned to ~~ Han~n police 
officer ~hafiq \bdu subur. \bdussubur 
has bet:n a local father figure for } cars. 1 n 
2003, he founded a youth program called 
CTRtbar 10 the Dtxwcll n~ tghhorhood, 
\\here he greu up. \frc:r) cars of walking 
a beat 10 the area. \lxlussubur knt'\\ 
mo t of the kid . He knt'\\ \\ ho the 
troublemaker were, and he had a prett} 
good 1dca of what the\ uere rrus mg. 
CTRibat-u hich plC'wush relied on 
police do112tions and IS nou funded b, 
n combmanon of em and communm 
dollars-g:n c ktds an.<; and brerarurc 
programs and campmg tnps. \bdu~subur 
brought m mu 1oans, wnters, and arusts. 
\{o,r 1mponantl), he pent tlffie wuh ktds 
tn'tcad of wamng to arrc t rhem. 
\dult,; knou 
\bdussubur as uell 
as lads do Clark knows him through 
the )Outh sc:n; 1ccs commttrec:, u htch 
he artends regul.lrl} as a rc:pre~entaU\C: 
of CTR1bat, .md \latos knows him as a 
DLxwell communlt) orgamzer. It ~c:c:ms 
evei)i>od} knows \bdussubur. 
''I was kmd of rccruuc·J a:- CI"O 
of youth ,,olencc," \bdussubur recalls 
of being asked b) Oroz to tailor the 
PrO\,dcnce Mreer team program to 
~c\\ Ha\en. ln the \\ ke of the dt'aths 
of Cole and 
LJW• \bdussubur had 
alrcad} orgamzcd an mformal tt.'am to 
,,sit shoonng ,,cnms at rhc hosp1tnl. Th1s 
team mcluded Trace) ~uggs.Ju .. rus ~uw· 
mother, \\ ho needed a posim e ourlet for 
hcrgne( 
"I kneu I couldn'r JU t 
tt back," 
~uggs recalls. "I had w get m there and 
talk to kid or the ,,corns and the famtlie,;, 
tf the lad couW ralk There had to be


---

from happerung agam. Thb \\".15 pretty 
much my O\\n \\".1}' of dealing \\;th mr 
own grief. What better person ro do this 
would be me? Sometimes people wam to 
hear from ,. •menne who'~ acrually been 
there. not from someone who hasn't 
experienced it." 

City officials caught on to this idea. 
Ther realized that, despite Alxlussubur's 
community work. he was not the right 
person to implement the program. First 
and foremo~t, he \\".l.S a cop. ~ot only 
did he need rime to focus on his beat, 
but there was also no one the target 
population trusred less than the cops. 
The best people for the job, the aldermen 
decided, were the ones who had acruaUy 
been there. 

T
yrone \X'eston, coorclinator of the 
street outreach worker program. 
served ten years m prison for narcoocs 
and violence. Now 37, he has been out of 
jail for nine years and is raising a 19-year-
old daughter. Topping his grandfather 
cardigan and turtleneck ~ a full row of 
gold teeth, a lingering reminder of his 
yt.-ar.; on the :.trect. 
"\Vhen you look around and see the 
netghborhood," says Weston, who grew 
up in New Haven, "you can't complain 
about it because you had a lot to do 
\\ith iL" He feels a responsibility to fix a 
situation he helped create. \X'eston thinks 
he's the best one co lead the street outreach 
team because, far from judging meet life, 
he understands its draws, tts highs and 
lows. "I've been in the streets since I \\".15 
13-years old, and I know why these kids 
love the streets," he explains, adJusting his 
wire-rimmed glasses. "I'm a grown man 
local civic group known for ~prt:aJing 
a nonviolent mcss.tge, when Barbara 
Tinney, head of tht "Jew Han~n Famil) 
,\lliance, heard about him. She hired him 
to launch the -\Uiance 's street outrt'llch 
team in July. Smce then, the program has 
builr a staff of ctght outreach workers, 
seven male and one fcmale, all of whom 
'ocial workers, court. and police tips and 
send' his outreach workcrs to find them. 
Purple-jacketed and unarmed, the "'lOrkers 
disper~e across the city. First, \X'eston 
says, '')ou have ro idt.-ntif). you have to 
engage." Once rhe outreach workers have 
connected "ith rhe kids and gained some 
trUst, rhcr present options. One of the
N ew Haven resident~ who have 
witnessed the unfolding of a police 
corruption scandal during one of 
the worst spikes in violent shootings 
the city has seen) are looking bryond 
traditional policing to protect their 
homes and families. 
have crurunal backgrounds. Tirmey admn' 
there's been some turnover in the staff 
due ro the challenges of the job. "There 
was a lack of suttabibry, let's leave it at 
that," she says carefully. 



The triclciest part of coordinating rhe 
program is finding the right candid:ucs 
ro run it. "This has w be more than a 
job," Weston explains. Outreach workers 
arc hired tO be there for kids. anytime, 
anywhere. If they ger a rwo a.m. phone 
call from a kid about to go shoor someone, 
it's their job to get out of bed and ralk 
the kid down. Bur m order to receive 
such a phone call, rhey need to possess a 
fl.'asons the ~cw Havcn Family .Alliance 
u-on the contract for the program was 
its pre-cxtsting resource network. If an 
outreach worker discovers that one of 
their ktds is failing school or expecting 
a child. he or she can hook the kid up 
"ith the Family Alliance's adult ruronng 
or parenting programs. rhe workers also 
refer rheir charges to outstde addicoon 
and counseling resources. 1\lany of the 
kids ar ~[iss Shirley's life skills class were 
brought in b} outreach workers. 
All ryes in the room are fixed on 
a foot-lonb inch-deep) ;agged scar 
mnning through Ants be!fy fat. (1 
Idt.':llly, rhe workers \vould also be 
in\·olved in emergency or !ugh-conflict 
siruarions. 
Rather than letting gang 
tension e'calarc to a sho<Jting, supporters 
of the street outreach worker program 
hope thar ktds would call \lo, Blest, Ant, 
Cousin Twi.z, Dougie, Remedy, Pete, 
or Picasso and talk ir out. Ideally, the 
workers' preventative role would replace 
the poltce's disciplinU) one. This would 
cause a reverse domino effect: as fewer 
kids would get shot, fewer kids would go 
ro jail, fewer kids would get out and deal 
bccau~c they couldn't get nnorher job, and 
fewer ktds \\-ould rurn to the streets for 
protection on!) to learn that, as \\'esron is 
fond of .;a ring, "the streets don't love you 
back." ldt·ally, the streer outreach worker 
program \\ ould break the cycle. 
was stupicl I was stupicl I was so 
stupicl JJ Ant sqys into the silence. 
at 37, and still you have to tell vour~el~ 
'You can do this, you can't do thar."' 
\'C'esron 
\\".l.S 
working wtth 
the 
Christian 
Brotherhood 
'iumrrut, 
a 
FebCUU)· 2008 
trust·\\1nning balance of street crcd and 
menronng skills. 



On a typical day, \\'esron says, he puts 
together a list of htgh-profile kid~ from 


**Title:  [No Title Specified]**
**Page number(s): 30**

H
eading our on patrol after the life 
'kills class, street outreach 'il:orker 
Pete Lopez has promised a ride to George, 
rhe teenager who inadverrendy sold crack 
ro hts friend's mother. Pete hops in the 
bam·red white \'an while George hangs 
out,ide, dragging on a cigarette. \Vben 
Bles·, who is accompammg Pete on 
mall. He checks in \\ith the owners of a 
conrcntcnce srore ro make ~ure they're nor 
being harassed by the kid~. but they stare 
at him silendy from behind the counter. 
f le walks over to the public library, which 
he says Dougie drops b)' frcquendy, bur 
no one recognizes him. 
Outside, Blest is chatting with some 
(When you look around and see the 
neighborhoocl " says Weston) who 
grew up in New Haven) )lou can i 
complain about it because you had a 
lot to do with it. JJ 
-
Tyrone Weston 
patrol. has serded inro the passenger seat, 
Perc steps on the gas. George bangs on 
the door and Perc brakes so that George 
can ro~~ out his cigarette and climb in. 
"That's why you the new gur," George 
laughs. 
lr\ Pete's second week on the job .• -\ 
'' inged ranoo on his neck peeks out of 
ht' purple Jacket, whtch he wears proudly. 
\ rnlilish beard frames his face and a gray 
knit lwlft coYers his !'kull. So far, Perc's 
only ridden uith Doug~c, Ius mentor, 
around DL'I.·well, bur tonight he and Blest, 
who t' tn hts third week, arc setting our on 
their U\\ n. \fter !hey drop George in the 
f ltll. thq slow down and begm to look 
around. Blest sees a group of kids with 
trick btkes hanging on the sidewalk, and 
he tells Pete to srop. The two get out and 
amble 0\·cr to the kids, who back awa}: 
Fh e minutes later, Pete and Blest are back 
in the car. 'Ther kno\\' me more outside 
this jacket," says Blest. 
He's familiar with many of New 
Ha\'en's young people through a program 
called Cnicing Our Youth, which he's 
opc.--rared for a few } <.-ars now, but Blest 
1~ still adjusting ro ltfc in rhe purple 
jacket. These kids don't recognize his neu 
uniform ret He and Perc talk constantly 
about Dougie, who's a more established 
prt~<.ncc ill the neighborhoods. They 
dme over to Di:rndl to meet up uith 
him but he has the rught off, so Pete pulli 
mto one of Dougie's usual haunts, a strip 



kids on crick bikes, one of whom is 
Dougte's son. "You play ball, man, what 
you illto?" Blest asks one of them. He 
gets a mumbled response. \ police car 
flashes past, blaring ItS Steen, and me lads 
lose mterest. They pedal languidly away. 
Blest moves on to two girls leaning on 
the \\'all outside Cluna ~mr He introduces 
himself to Wynisha, who's rwenty and ill 
school to be a parole officer, and Sandy, 
who's 17 and pregnant. "You read) to 
raise a child?'' Blest asks ::.andy. She stuffs 
her hands into her parka pockets and 
looks down, a faint smile stuck on her 
face. ,\ young bor ambles over and pms 
his head on her shoulder. 
"Is this your gtrl?" Blest asks the 
boy, who laughs and \\'alks a\\-ay. Sandy's 
boyfriend is out dealtng, Bbr eventually 
pulls out of her. "\favbe you guys'll get 
married," he says, "bur he needs to be 
productive, pay child suppon. If you plan 
on marrymg this man you guys gona be 
r<..-ady for it, cuz it's a big step." 
Sandy smiles, silentl). 
Before he and Pete climb mro the '\'an, 
Blest tells Sandy, .. That's what it really is. 
you don't give yourself a chance." In the 
car, he says that he never knew his own 
father and had his firsr child ar 17. Pete, 
who also never knew his father, has a 
three-month-old son. He showed pictures 
10 Sandy and \V~·nisha on hts cell phone. 
"I get touched, like, ever since I've 
~d 
my life around," Pete says as he 
dnves over to the Ville 
ewhallville-
which he and Blest agree ts the roughest 
part of town. They don't stop; it's not 
safe for a reporter. Perc grew up in the 
Bronx but has lived in New Haven for 19 
years, he says. He dealt and used heroin 
and crack until five years ago, when he 
ha bottom. He still ancnds :-;arcocics 
\nonymous mecongs sometimes, and 
hL relics hea,-iJy on h1s faith; he's been a 
\(uslim for three years. 
Pete and Blest recall how when they 
were teenagers, street fighting was fist to 
fisr '\.low, \\ith the pre\·alence of guns, 
rhmg:; ha,·e changed. "It's a survival 
L1cuc," Pete sap. "I'm gonna blow your 
brains our before you blow mine. I may 
stt m J<Ul, bur noboJr \\-ants ro go inro the 
ground." 
\s street outreach workers, the two 
\\am ro teach kids different ways to 
sun·we. The conver~ation cycles back 
to 
Doug~e, who recently prevented a 
shooting. One of Dougie's kids got 
jumped the other mght, says Blest, but his 
friends went ro Dougie's house in Dixwell 
before anyone called rhe police. Dougie 
talked to the perpetrator and the victim's 
friends, and he diffused the situation so 
that the police never knew about it. That, 
Blest and Perc say, b the kind of street 
outreach worker rhc) want to be. 
"l want to have my k1ds engulfed in 
me," Blest says. "I'm engulfed in my kids, 
bur I want my kids to be engulfed in me 
like Dougie's are in him." 
Time will cell if a purple jacket, 
criminal background, and crusader's 
energy will win Blest k1ds' trust. Even if 
I hey do, me future of New Haven's street 
outreach worker program will remain 
tenuous. founding 1s ~ecurcd through July, 
but after that, Tmney and \X'eston will 
hare to convince funders that the outreach 
workers are making a difference. 
E\aluating a violence prevention 
program, whether it's the street outreach 
ream or President Clinron's COPS, is 
rnck . l;,o man} factors affect gun ";olence 
tha · a \\inter drop in shootings could 
be attribured to anti-vmlcnce efforts or 
ro particularly cold w<.-athcr. Ttnney is 
workmg with Yale's Robert \\'ood Johnson 
Chmcal Scholars to de"clop a method of 
m<..-asunng the program's outcomes. "My 
main concern,'' she 'ap. "ts that people 
\\ill expect this 1s 'orne son of magic 
bullet." She \\'Orne' fund<.-rs will give up 
TilE ~E\\' JOGR.~.\L 



**Title: Walking With God**
**Author: Sophia Lear**
**Page number(s): 32-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
A squadron of Orthodox Jews gathers nightly on the steps of the imposing stone yeshiva in New Haven's Edgewood neighborhood. Each wears a black t-shirt with "Edgewood Park Defense Patrol" written in script on the back, and, until November, some carried concealed, licensed weapons. They break into pairs, and head out for a night of pounding and protecting the streets. In warmer weather, they waved to residents sitting on the porches of the neighborhood's decaying Victorian homes. They are self-appointed watchmen on the lookout for trouble, shuffling along groups of loitering boys or stopping wheeling drunks from getting in their cars.

But mostly they just walk, and walking has never received so much media attention or caused such a stir. The hubbub centers on the guns and the Greers, the prominent and outspoken Orthodox Jewish family that founded the patrol last June. The family's patriarch, Rabbi Daruel Greer, has spent much of his adult life in the Edgewood neighborhood. His two sons, Dov and Eliezer, both in their thirties, live there as well. Dov, the elder, is a rabbi with a wry smile that often peeks through his beard. He teaches and leads services at the yeshiva his father started. Eliezer, the more brazenly outspoken, runs the Greers' property management company, renovating and renting out nearby houses.


As the media speculated on what would happen if an Orthodox Jew shot a black man in the inner city, the Greers insisted again and again that their patrol has nothing to do with religion. "A lot of us walk around here—forget Shabbos—it's race to walk," Dov says.

It is nice to walk. But Orthodox Judaism cannot help but shape the Greers' relationship to their home—and to walking. In our pick-up-and-move society, the Greers have an almost unparalleled stake in their neighborhood. They can't escape the reality of the inner city; "white flight" is not an option for the Orthodox Jewish community. One day a week, every week, every year, the Greers must walk everywhere. The sprawling suburbs, home to many Conservative Jews, does not accommodate that need. And when crime threatened this prerogative, the Greers, instead of recreating from their February 2008 homes, imposed on themselves a mandate to walk the streets every night.


Yet Dov's insistence that this is about more than the Orthodox community is true as well. The denomination, which has long insisted on the good behavior of its adherents, can no longer go it alone. The Greers don't just want the members of their congregation to behave. They need everyone to.


In June, walking home in the warmth of a summer afternoon, Dov noticed three kids traipsing a few yards behind him. Two doors away from home, he broke into a run. The boys sprinted after, pushed their way inside, and started wailing punches on Dov in the foyer of his house. He started tearing right back into the boys, shouting to his wife to call 911. The Greers could not flee and so they decided to fight back. Two days after the attack, Daruel, Dov, and Eliezer held a press conference in a yeshiva classroom to announce the founding of the Edgewood Park Defense Patrol.


The methods of these modern-day Maccabees have caused more controversy and confusion than their pronouncements. Although the Greers insisted that members of the EPDP would carry guns—defying strong pressure from City Hall to put them down—it soon became clear that, despite the sensationalism, no one in the EPDP was likely to fire one. The activity of the patrol, at any given moment, is tame and somewhat absurd. The EPDP does not make citizens' arrests—they call the police. They spend most of their time politely asking groups to move along.


The EPDP is fundamentally a ritual display. The guns were a theatrical measure, not a practical tool. The appearance of the EPDP on the streets mattered as much as, if not more than, the work they did there. The EPDP has given the Greers a public platform from which to rail against the failures of City Hall and the police department. Eliezer has seized it. He holds numerous EPDP press conferences outside the neighborhood police substation. "The press conferences, with Channel 8 and Fox News—it's like cats coming out for the cook's scraps," he says. Last May, in his typical rhetorical style, Eliezer shouted, "Blood is being spilled on the backs of incompetence!"


This theatricality has a purpose. The Greers' use of spectacle in their quest to restore a sense of security is a tactic they share with the police. Though perpetually at odds, both groups have a lifetime investment in New Haven, and both have learned to use the visual to revive a concept teetering on the edge of becoming a vestige: "community."


Efforts to preserve the community began with little more than construction paper and a copy machine. In the early '90s, as prostitutes roamed the streets, Daruel Greer printed out multicolored flyers and posted them across his neighborhood. Suddenly, the mugs of suburban middle-aged men recently convicted of soliciting prostitution in Edgewood stared out from every telephone pole. Below the photos were the offenders' names, and above was the title, "JOHN-OF-THE-WEEK." The number of out-of-town men trolling for sex immediately plummeted, as did the drug sales and violence that thrived alongside the industry. "He also got the law changed, so that anybody who was convicted had his car impounded, too," Dov boasts of his father's inspired Saul Letter maneuver. "Then he'd have to explain to his wife in the suburbs what happened to his car." The John-of-the-Week program's success has reached the level of city lore, and Eliezer and Dov have internalized its lesson.


When crime rises in a neighborhood, it poses an implicit question: Are there people here who are willing to stand up and say, "We are the community, and we will say—and enforce—what we regard as acceptable behavior?" Daruel Greer, with the ingenuity of public theater, forced the question to a head. The answer was yes.


The police also fought the rampant crime of the early nineties with an ingenuity that worked its way into city lore. In 1990, New Haven adopted "community-based policing," permanently transforming its theories concerning public safety. Janet Lander, Mayor John DeStefano's first chief administrative officer, describes the shift. "In modern happenings, police respond, arrests are made," she says, describing the "before" picture. Under the new program, by contrast, "you get to know the community, you know the people in it."


**Title: Connecticut Pastoral**
**Author: Emil K. Koh**
**Page number(s): 36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Tragedy lends itself to romantic retelling. On Sunday, July 22, 2007, Dr. William Petit, Jr. of Cheshire, Connecticut, his wife Jennifer Hawke-Petit, and their daughters Hayley and Michaela, ages seventeen and eleven, began the day at church. The girls spent the afternoon swimming at their beach club while Petit took in 18 holes of golf with his father. Between seven and seven-thirty, Hawke-Petit and Michaela drove their Chrysler Pacifica SUV to a Stop & Shop in Maplecroft Plaza to purchase ingredients for the pasta and homemade sauce Michaela would prepare later that evening. 

At three o'clock the next morning, the family's home was invaded by two men on parole who followed the Chrysler Pacifica the three miles from Maplecroft Plaza to Sorghum Mill Drive. Seven hours later, Joshua Komisarjevsky and Steven Hayes fled the scene, slammed the Petits' car into a barricade formed by two police cruisers parked nose-to-nose, and were taken into custody. At the time of their arrest, Petit, who moments earlier had stumbled out of his basement door into the arms of a neighbor, was the only member of his family still alive. 

Seconds before Petit's escape, 300 Sorghum Mill was set aflame by the two men who escaped in the Chrysler Pacifica; the two men who strangled Petit's wife and tied his daughters to the posts of their beds to die in the fire. Komisarjevsky and Hayes appeared in Menden Superior Court the next morning, prime suspects in what would be trumpeted as one of the worst crimes committed in Connecticut's memory. When Petit appeared one week later, seated between his parents at a candlelight vigil outside his medical practice, the suspects remained incarcerated on a $15 million bail. Their cases had been transferred to New Haven County Court, news of their crimes had been widely reported, and the suffering endured by Petit and the women he mourned had begun the 
36 
THE NEW JOURNAL


**Title:  Untitled**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 34-35**

Cops started to patrol the streets 
on foot and build relationships with 
residents on a particular block. Crime 
dropped, the program's success garnered 
national press, and New Haven became, 
if not a sleepy college town, then a city 
more peaceful than it had been in recent 
memory. Twenty-one thousand crimes in 
1998 petered out to nine thousand crimes 
in 2006. 

Herman Badger, the former assistant 
chief of police, says, "We're long past 
the time when the police can just come 
in and make a community a place worth 
living." He grew up in New Haven and 
has been a cop for 23 years. He explains 
that community policing changed the 
way business was done. "There was a big 
shift from 'we're the experts' to 'we're 
partners.'" 

Total crime is still far below early '90s 
levels, but gun violence has shot up in the 
last year. And residents feel that, rather 
than redoubling their efforts in response 
to the crisis, police have retreated to their 
bunker, darting out only for emergencies, 
leaving their charges to face escalating 
crime without protection. What angers 
the Greers—and many other New Haven 
residents—is the absence of a visible 
police presence. 

This frustration reflects a drop in 
the number of cops in New Haven. A 
decrease in federal funding for local 
policing under President George Bush has 
led to fewer police walking beats in urban 
neighborhoods. The police department 
has been knocked even further off 
balance by a scandal that decimated its 
narcotics department. Last spring, the 
FBI conducted a drug raid that led to 
the arrests of three officers on charges 
of theft and bribery, the suspension of 
the operation of the department, and 
the resignations of several top officials, 
including Badger. New Haven has been 
struggling to reform its policing ever 
since. Chief Francisco Ortiz announced 
his resignation in November, but agreed 
to stay on until a replacement was found. 

The impact of these disturbances 
has been felt on the streets. The city has 
promised to increase the number of cops 
in New Haven, but Badger admitted in 
October that the department's approach 
has changed since its vigorous days of 
community policing. "We haven't gone 
back to the early nineties," he said, "but 


--- Page 35 ---

we have become a bit more of a reactive 
department, rather than proactive." 

What disturbs City officials about 
recent crime trends is not the hard 
numbers but the new character of the 
perpetrators and the new style of their 
crimes. "We're actually seeing deliberate 
gunfire in places where you wouldn't 
before," explains Rob Smuts, DeStefano's 
youthful chief administrative officer. 
to look safe actually makes it safer. And 
the effectiveness of community-based 
policing depends as much on the visual 
aid of police on the streets, talking to 
residents, as the work they actually do 
there. 

In line with the "Broken Windows" 
thesis, Edgewood violence has been 
transmuted into a visual symbol. On one 
The mugs of men recently convicted 
of soliciting prostitution in Edgewood 
stared out from every telephone pole. 
"I like to the commission of a robbery, 
after the robbery's done. Almost in a 
marking fashion." Criminals are much 
younger, often 15 to twenty. And when 
they fire their guns, it is superfluous, 
unnecessary, dramatic. Victims are not 
being killed—they're getting shot. In the 
arm, the leg, the buttocks, the foot, the 
hand. And they're not shot at three in the 
morning, as Eliezer is prone to yell, but at 
six, seven, eight at night. 

They have been a stabilizing force," 
Elizabeth McCormack says of the 
Greers. She has been the Edgewood 
alderwoman for the last twenty years. 
"And then there's the domino effect. They 
paint their houses and someone says, 'Oh, 
their house looks nice. I guess I'll paint 
mine!'" 

Stepping outside of McCormack's 
house on Pendleton Avenue, it's easy 
to get a sense of what she means. The 
forty Greer-owned properties dot the 
neighborhood. After a few days, it's hard 
not to see the family's houses sticking out 
like sore thumbs against a mish-mash of 
dilapidation. The trademark red, beige, 
green, and mushroom houses stand 
as an affirmation of some community 
standard. 

The police, too, lend credence to the 
visual, if not as explicitly. The "Broken 
Windows" theory, which emerged at 
the same time as community policing, 
is an aesthetic one, espousing the once-
radical idea that fixing up a neighborhood 
tour through the neighborhood, driving 
along Whalley Avenue's grimy neon drag, 
Eliezer says, "Right here is something 
we call 'kids that are bored.'" He grabs a 
flashlight off the dashboard and beams 
the light like a teacher using a pointer. 
"These kids are bored." 

Out on the sidewalk, in front of 
Planet Apizza's sterile glow, two black, 
male teenagers, draped in their small bikes, 
stare back. Greer leans out the passenger 
seat to fix them in the flashlight's glare. 
"It's unlikely they're going to buy pizza 
for their parents. It's more likely that 
they're bored." 

As he coasts along, Greer reels off 
anecdotes of recent violence: A car 
crashes through a house. Bullets fly 
through an alderwoman's home. A rabbi 
is held up at Lighthouse. A shooting breaks 
out on Rosh Hashanah. 

But despite these dramatic events, 
black kids on bikes—doing nothing—
have become an icon of incipient chaos. 
In High Point, North Carolina, where 
recent police efforts have stamped out 
rampant crime, a resident was quoted in 
the Wall Street Journal as saying, "I don't 
know exactly how to phrase it, but you 
just don't see as many people riding 
around doing nothing." 

At a block watch meeting in the 
Norton substation, Bill Morris, a stooped, 
retired high school teacher with a few 
wisps of white hair on his head, demands 
of the small group, "Where are these 


--- Page 35 ---

kids out on the street at two and three in the 
morning! My mother would've had my 
hide if I acted like that." A few others 
nod. Gone are the days, distant but keenly 
felt, when neighbors would put kids' 
bicycles left on the sidewalk safely onto 
their owner's porch. 

Shortly after launching their patrol, the 
Greers called Curtis Sliwa, founder 
of national community watchdog group 
the Guardian Angels and invited him 
to run a chapter in New Haven. The 
Guardian Angels began in the subways 
of New York in 1979, when Sliwa turned 
February 2008 
his cleaning crew into a dozen patrol 
that rode the Manhattan lines and grew 
into an international phenomenon. Sliwa 
accepted the Greers' offer, and Sliwa and 
Eliezer were soon standing side-by-side at 
press conferences. 

The divergence between the two 
groups' ideologies, however, is marked by 
guns. The Guardian Angels are adamantly 
unarmed, but they do not hesitate to 
make arrests, confiscate drugs, or use 
physical force. The Greers, on the other 
hand, have yet to make physical contact 
with any of their targeted delinquents. 
Guns, tucked inside their coats, they spent 
five months walking within the borders 
of Ellsworth, Edgewood, West Park, and 
Whalley, politely asking boys on bikes to 
move along. The Greers' guns were not a 
practical necessity but a political avowal 
that as long as the police remained absent, 
the Greers would remain conspicuously, 
militantly present. 

Eliezer uses the word "control" a 
lot. Yet as he drives the streets, one man 
yelling from the sidewalk manages to 
unnerve him. He speaks with increasing 
vehemence and agitation. "Let's get the 
state in here and do a narcotics raid! 
Big deal? No. For a big deal what's a 
big deal is nobody's running the police 
department. And they don't want to do 
anything! They want to sit around." 

The rise in violence hits home for 
the Greers. Despite all their efforts 
to enact community norms, there will 
always be uncontrollable elements that 
seep through. Ellsworth, Edgewood, 
West Park, Whalley. These borders are 
permeable. The guns were a defensive cry 
against this basic truth. 

What the Greers have always wanted 
is systemic change, a top-down solution 
to their problems. In their eyes, Ortiz's 
announcement of his resignation was the 
first step toward a repentant, renovated 
police department, and so they laid off 
the political trigger. In November, they 
put down their guns. 

When asked whether the EPDP 
contributed to Ortiz's departure, Eliezer 
beams, calmer than he has been in weeks. 
"Absolutely, absolutely," he says. I asked 
him if any residents were disappointed 
that the EPDP was disarming. "Sure," he 
shrugged. "But I can't go door to door 
and explain all our policy decisions to 
everyone." The Greers are playing on a 
larger stage than just the streets of the 
Edgewood neighborhood. 

While their first act has been a success, 
they have no interest in quitting their task 
until the streets are safe, the police have 
returned for good, and Edgewood looks 
like they remember it. 
35 



**Title: The Cheshire Murders**
**Author: Jonathan Edwards Croft**
**Page number(s): 37-38**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
com crs1on from personal tragedy £Opublic 
namui\c. 

The murders lend themsch·es to a 
morally focu~~:d n.trration, which the 
national pubhc ha~ heard repeatedly. The 
P~:tit.~ Wl'rc good people done 'Hong by 
thw unamb~uously evil ass:ulams. 

The character of du~ family was 
em bowed in its patriarch. Pent, one paper 
nnred, "never strayed far from where he 
grew up." In Plamvtllc, twdn~ miles north 
of Cheshire, his family "formed a pillar of 
civ1c hfe." He opened hts medical practice 
dO\\ n the street from the general store of 
William Perir. Sr .. and hb examirung room 
wa~ adorned not "\\ith awards, bm with 
ptctures of his fanuly." 

Petit and his wife were married 22 
years. The couple met at the Children's 
f lo~pital of Pmsburgh where he was a 
third-year medical student, she a nurse. 
Each pursued those can:ers: Petit is a 
prominent endocnnologisr, his wife was 
co-director of the health center at Cheshtre 
Acadt·my. Both were in rhe business of 
hclptng others, and their family followed 
'l;Uit. Hayley wamed to be a doctor like 
her dad and was ht:aded to Dartmouth. 
her fathcr's alma maltr, in the falL Shc 
had ratsed more than 550,000 through 
"Hayley's Hope." a team she formed to 
participate in an annual walk supporting 
research for muluple sclerosis. 

Articb describing personal details 
of the Petit's tn·es soon emerged allowing 
readers to peer into the family's private 
hfe. The public learned the instruments 
they played-Hawke-Pcur guitar and 
piano, :-.lichaela flute. The public learned 
of lhayley's co-capt:tinship of high school 
arhlcric reams. The public learned that 
.\fichaela had made balsamic \inaigrene 
for t~c .-.alad and a pa."ta sauce of "native 
tomatoes, garlic. olive oil and basil" And 
the public learned that to reft:r to the girls 
by their nicknames was ro speak of Hayes 
and KK. Rosebud. 

Reports also shed light on the tn·e~ 
of rhe criminal<. pamcularly that of 
Joshua Komisarjev,ky. Lake the Petit 
daughtc:r~. Komisar]C\ $ky gre~· up in 
Che<htre, though h1s adoptive family 
came from a line of disringutshcd Russian 
artists. Komisarie\·sk} 's great-~randfather, 
Fyodor Komisarjc\·sky. 
~-as a Russian 
op<.>.ra smger and fnend of Tchaikovskl·· 
His aum, \-era, was a notable actress. 
FebrU31) 2008 
Kormsarjevsky was adopted by a 
Chc~hire electrician who~c wife home-
schooled him and his stster. The couple 
al~o hosted foster children, one of whom 
purportedly raped Komisarjcvsky when 
ht• was fourteen. He allegedly began to 
burgle that same year. By 2002, he had 
accrued more than a do?Cn theft charge~ 
and had been sentenced ro ntne vears in 
jrul followed by six of supcf\-ised parole. 

Most accounts of the Petit murders evoked the 
town} manicured lawns and unlocked doo~ 
as if these .[Jmbols should have sustained 
secun!J rather than attracted incursion. 

The Judge who delivered the sentence 
described a "calculated, cold-blooded 
predator." 

If the Petits were poignandr '"irtuous, 
and 
Komisarjevsky 
Hayes 
archetypally cruel, the rown which housed 
them all-Cheshire-became a complex 
battleground between criminal horror 
and quotidian comfort. It is difficult to 
rc.'COncile an ace of such unimaginable 
malice ,,;th so placid a place. 

Cheshire is the" Bedding Plant Capttal 
of Connecticut.",\ rown of 29,000, it is 
nestled in the stare's ~ourhwestern regton 
or, to those who prefer more metaphoric 
coordinates, 10 irs "hc.'lll't." .\ bedroom 
community, Cheshire is a throwback to 
the era of Rotary Club meetin~. picket 
fences, and lifelong restdcnrs. Irs homes 
seemed irnpen'lous to crime. 

Residents and non-residents alike 
n:adily indulge in dus ideal portral.t of 
Che>htre. ~lost accounts of the Petit 
murders evoked the town\ manicured 
lawn$ and unlocked doors. as if the'e 
symbols should ha\·e sustained security 
rather than at:tracted tncursion. "You liw 
in a netghborhood on a tree-lined street 
for so many years," sevc:n·year "orghum 
.\liU resident Robert \wcrack tc id the 
Ntn-' )~rk Times. ''You get a false sense of 
sccunty." 

The characterization of Cheshire 
as a ha\·en at the heart of Connecticut 
deltbcrately 
overlooked 
the 
three 
correctional facilioes located at the 
to~n's northern end. The buildin~ \\"Cre 
disnusscd a:. unfortunate inrru,ions in an 
orhcf\\ise idyllic semng. .\[any indi\;duals 
who spoke to the press after the murders 
admitted that the cnme forced them to 
acknowledge their tllusion of safety, to 
realize that their dectsion w leave their 
doors unlocked could nor prevent others 
from entering them. 

The shocl.."\\'3\·c, of the cnmc 
reverberated through Connecocm. In 
a February S telephone conven;aoon, 
State Senator _\nclrew McDonald said 
that the "tragedy had scf\·cd as a clanon 
call" for Connecticut. The Petit murden; 
"displared glaring deficiencies" in the 
cnminal justice system and heightened 
the level of arrenrion paid to Connecticut 
crimes. Still, state lawmakers had not been 
entirely ignorant of such "deficiencies" 
prior to the Cheshire murders. Leg~Siauon 
enacred in July 2006 had created the 
Criminal Justice Policy and Planning 
Oi\;SIOn and tasked It With "developing 
a plan to promote a more effective and 
cohcstvc state criminal jusnce system." 

In \larch 2007. the agency prepared a 
ISS·page report titled "Comprehensive 
Plan I·or rhe Connecticut Criminal 
Jusocc ':lysrem.'" Cheshire, this document 
demon~trared, had nor been the first and 
only catalyst for crimtnal justice reform in 
Connecticut. 

Dara from the I· Bl and the L'.S. 
Dcparrmcnr of Jusoce tndtcated that the 
Petit mi.uders constituted only one part 
of a larger and lasting national trend. 
\'wlent crime in suburban communities 
wa5 up for the durd year in a CO\\. in 2006. 
Cheshire serYes as a mtcrocosm for such 
trends. Tn 2007, the town experienced 
28 burglaries. a 75 percent incrc.-ase from 
2006. 

\uthorincs 
~cued 22 bags of 
hermn. One resident shot humelf in the 
basement of hi~ home on :\'orron I..ane 
after murdering his cx·wife and her 29-
ycar-old daughter. hvc months later. 300 
Sorghum Mill \Vas invaded. 

This e\"idencc· confirms a point left 
largely untouched: The Petit murders 
\\ere one symptom of a pcn.1'1'-e tllnc,;s 
destroying Pleasantville. An account of 
the rown's earlier VIOlent encounters 
\\'aS a truth worth telling. Yer many of 
Connecticut's people replied, and the 
press preferred m overlook the~e trends, 
and concentrated on Che:.hire's clarion 
call. 

In an August 8 column in the ;\·m 
Hatrn Rtgftltr, Randall Beach wrote, "It 
feels as if thJ.S cnme ts our own '9 I 11.' The 
terrorist attacks and the Cheshire murders 
jolted us into the sudden rcalizaoon that 
our world 1s much crueler, savage and 
dangerous than we had thought, that 
we are not as safe as we had believed we 
were." He conveyed the concern of one 
woman in Wallingford, a rown adJacem to 
Cheshire, who recaUcd a conversation wirh 
a female neighbor m which they decided 
to gam about 100 pounds, let themselves 
go and forget trying to work hard for the 
nice cars. .\fter the Peot murders, this 
kind of reasoning ·was not uncommon. 

Disjomted logtc was preferable to the 
unsettling truth: Safety is never ccrtam; 
selection so often random. 

A crime as senseless as the Petit 
.fimurders demands resoluoon. People 
felt Komtsarjcvskr and Hayes should be 
severely punished, and loopholes within 
the criminal justice system should be 
closed. Connecticut GovernorM.Jodi ReU 
responded ro the outcry by suspending 
the parole of all mmates serving a 
sentence for a ";olent offense. "Secunty 
comes first," Rcll said in a September 21 
statement. "I will not aUow public safety 
to be jeopardized because parolees rcrurn 
to a life of crime. Parole IS a privilege, not 
a right." 

On November 26, a crowd of about 
75 gathered outside the 'Jew Haven 
Correctional Center on \'\'halley .\venue 
to protest the suspens1on of parole. They 
argued that the ban was a consequence of 
the cnmes commttted by Korni,at')e'·~ky 
and Haye~ unfairly unposed on mmares 
held for ,;olcm cnmes and unfairly 
affecting all mmates m the form of P.ri<on 
0\"C!Cl''\\'d.ing. 

Protes·o~ carried signs: "Books 
not bars," "Schools not Jail ," "SSS for 
education not incarceraoon." Chants of: 
"\~bat do we do when we're under attack? 
SCUld r:all, fight back"' and "\'\bar do we 
do when sooet'.' fails? Build schools, nor 
jails"' echoed m Elm Cicy streets. 

The protestors accused the state of 
valuing suburban citizens m·er urban 
ones. "\\!hat it shows us IS that a Chesh1re 
life is worth more than a '\,ew Ha' en life," 
one declared. As the evenmg progres~ed, 
the Petits were upstaged. This-the rail). 
the frustration, the hype-was not about 
Cheshire. It u-as about a "new form of 
slaYery,'' protestors a\·owed, about families 
puUed apart, about a father, mother, 
brother,gont. It was about politicians who 
"do not know what it's like on the stn:et.'' 
It was about money, ,·otes, and elections. 
It was about "standing up,'' "crymg out," 
"demanding justice,'' and "taking back 
the srrcets.'' It was about a system-a cit), 
Kew Haven-leering its citizens down. 

The responsibility for the bdown 
also shifted. The perpetracors were the 
teachers "who treated you like snot." 
They were the ministers who needeJ ro 
"wake up." They were John DeStefano, 
Kew Haven's recently re-elected mayor. 
They were the cops who beat people up. 
They were the c1ry residents not present 
at the rally. 

By the night's end, the \X'haUey 
protest had revealed a rift in the starr's 
identity, with its Bedding Plant Capital on 
one side and tts Elm Ciry on the other. 
Cheshire, protestors noted, had stood up, 
gotten mad, and defended irs own in a wa) 
that :\ew Ha,-cn. plagued \\lth systemic 
crurunal justice problerru ratht:r than 
one (hocking crime, ncRr ha~. "\\"e'rc 
nor outraged enough m '\,C\' Haven," 
concluded one u-oman. "I sh• 1.. d not be 
able to see the comer from here:' anothc·r 
satd. ":\ly ~cw Ha\·en people, where arc 
you?'' 

State 
Judicial 
Committee 
l. conducted 
two 
public 
heanngs 
ro 
correct Connecticut\ 
inadequate 
criminal justice system. f-Ifteen public 
safe() measures proposed b} Connecttcut 
represenr.1uves and senators appeared 
on the docket, including proposals to 
tighten crimmal sentencing, improve 
home ~ccunry, and purush burglars more 
har~hl). 

Rcprcscnrativc 
\!fred 
\dinolfi, 
another re,ldent of Sorghum Mill Drive, 
H.'lld a lcncr addrc.;sed co the committee 
from Pent. "Dt.'IU' .\[embers of the 
Lt."ltdershlp of the Jud!cJ.ary Committee,'' 
It rt.':ld. "Mr life changed profoundly 126 
da}' ago .... 

"These hornblc events not only took 
the hvcs of m) bt.'nutiful and wonderful 
\\Jfe and daughters, but ther also exposed 
some glanng defects in our laws, and their 
inabdil) to adequately ensure our public 
safety. 

"Every 
resident 
10 
Connecticut 
deserves to ha\'e those glaring deficiencies 
in our public safety laws corrected fully 
and promptly ... 

"I lisror) has shown that reputations 
arc made and legacies are established by 
how the neetls of the people are addressed 
by those responsible for shaping our 
go\'ernment's response to tragic events 
and the cnses that follow them ... 

"\nd I've got ro say," \dinolfi said 
once he had concluded his reading, "God 
bless Dr. Perir." 

To wh1ch a woman u':ltching the 
ht"llnng softly but sharply replied, "God 
bbs us all." 

TNJ 


**Title: Body Politics**
**Author: Pat Hayden**
**Page number(s): 40-41**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
en members of the Yale 
X'omen's Center Executive 
Board circulated Zeta Psi's 
now notonous ''\Ve Love Yale Sluts" 
photo on January 20, the} hoped to cast 
a critical eye on an emblemaoc image. 
Instead, after weeks of public dispute, the 
gaze has swerved back to the protesters. 
The Women's Center has been challenged 
for its intenoon to file suit, its criocs have 
been accused of insensitivit}·. and Yale is 
muggling to define the boundaries of 
this sexual dtalogue. Such disputes are not 
m:w to New J Iaven. The Elm City brims 
\\ith lund tales of sexual controversies 
and their dubious mcarnations. 


The fim predates Yale. From 1640 
to 1643, when four our of seven New 
Haven re~idcnts were men, the Colony 
experienced what historian John Murrm 
calls "something close to a bestiality 
panic." ~ew Haven was one of the world's 
most harshlr Puritanical societies, and 
tts authorities frcquendy handed do\\n 
!'.evere purushments for a variety of sex 
crimes, includmg sodom}; masrurbaoon, 
and zoophilia. Perhap< a victim of 
htstoocal circumstll.llcc; perhap~ bhnded 
by an unseeml} feosh, a one-eyed servant 
named George Spencer became the 
t:uget of one o: the most pubhc bestiality 
trul.s of the sevemeenth cenn..r Long 
a nuisance to his communir", 'lpencer 
came to the attention of authoones in 
l"a.dy 1641 when his neighbor remarked 
that one of his sO\\·'s new~m p~ets 
bore a scrilcing resemblance ·o pencec's 
di.~figured visage. Concluding that "the 
monster'' must be Spencer's offspnng, the 
ne1ghbor explained the story: "Spencer 
being there an worke, the sow came into 
the stable, and then the temptaoon and 
his corruption did worke, and he drove 
the sow into the srye, and then comitted 
thatt filthyness." 


Though some historians contend that 
the charges against Spencer would not 
have held in a more moderate religious 
climate, "JC\\ Haven authoocies probed 
the servant with zeal. Interrogated by a 
group of religious leaders, including men 
named Yale and Davenport. Spencer 
\\1IS condemned for much more th:m his 
penchant for detlo\l.·ermg sows. In court. 
rumors ran rampant· Spencer had not 
been to church in five years, he had been 
whipped m Boston for stealing goods: he 
had attempted to a~ from his ~enitude 
to Virginia. Ultimately finding him guilty 
of "smfull and aborrunable filthyness," 
the New Han:n court delivered the 
punishment demanded 
by 
Leviticus 
20:15: Spencer \\"aS to die, but not before 
wtmessmg the public slaying of his 
promiscuous sow. 


Founded in the wake of spectacular 
New Haven trials like Spencer's, Yale 
eventually confronted tts own cases of 
se:-.-ual transgression. '\;or surprisingly, 
definitions of de"1ance have proven 
wildly elastic over time. In 1821, Yale's 
disctplinary tribunal expelled Alfred N. 
Bullitt for "criminal intercourse wtth a 
female of abandoned character." Such 
"abandoned" 
young 
women--often 
factory girb or New Haven prostitutes-
frustrated Yale authorities throughout the 
runeteenth century and ~ent more than 
one Yale man from the tn~titution. 


A ccnfur} later, as heud shepherded 
formerly unspeakable sexual tssues into 
the mainstream and World War I placed 
a 
renewed emphas1s on traditional 
masculinit}·, the t;niversit}· stepped up 
its puni~hment of homosexual behavior. 
In April 1923, John \\ tlltam Herron 
and Theodore SrudweU Smith were 
suspended for the remainder of the 
year after being comicted of "improper 
proceedings in their room.'' 


While 
undergraduate regulations ne\·er explicitly 
forbade gay sex, disc1plmar:y guidelines 
were ambiguously worded to condemn 
cri.minally effeminate behavior while 
avoiding the ugly bu~mcss of naming 
the d~d . ·~\ny breach of the commonly 
accepted rules of gentlemanly behavior," 
the rule~ read, "whether or not covered 
by the'e regulation~, \\iU be subject to 
di'aplinary action." 


Considering the official tolerance of both heterosexual anc.l 
homo,exual relationship~ at the Uni' e~>i() 
toJay, the case~ of wayward Yale men 
exemplify the power cultural context can 
ncrt on the judgment of transgressions. 
\'\hen the mtimate realm of sexual 
bcltanor is exposc.-d and condemned, the 
private become> the public. and a forum 
10 which to recon .. d~:r and renegotiate 
fund:unemal ~ocul value> emerges. 


In the case ot ">pencer's unfortunate 
indiscretion, 
t\.e\\ 
H:wen's 
Punran 
community r:w-ned him inro a scapc.goat 
and hb rrial uuo a reaffirmation of such 
\'lrtucs as piet). good\\11~ and hard \\ · trk. 
Hter a year of Impnsonmenr. Spc1ccr 
stood at the gallows. Face to face with 
dt."ath, he urged the people of ~C\\" 
Haven to take a more righteous path than 
he h:~d. According to the record. "He 
bc.pn to speakc to the }Ouths abom htm. 
exorring them all to take.: warning by h1s 
ex:unple hou• the) neglect and despise 
the mt"llnes of Grace. and rherr s•>ulcs 
good as he had done.·." Finally, SpLncer 
admitted "his ~mpud~.:ncy and athe1smc," 
rhen "justified the sentence as righn:ou'. 
und fully confessed." 


\ccording to !'iooologr Professor 
Philip Smith, cases h.ke Spencer's offer 
a platform for the 
retr~.:nchment of 
communal ideology. ''The case can be 
made," Smith explains, "that ,;s1ble 
trials m such cases help to sc.:dirnent new 
understandings and ro offer an exLmplaf} 
narrative to the pubhc." \s '\ew Haven 
authorities fined the noo'c. cghd: u-ound 
Spencer's neck and ktcked away the !>tand, 
they scaled the rdig10u~ and social nlues 
of the communtty with rhe blood of one 
of irs member.;. "::\ow he was ready w 
dye," the coun'.; account rt."3ds, "and he 
musr goe prcsentl} to hell.'' 


~pcncer's hangtng came at the hands 
of a ~ociet)' who~e conception of sex-ual 
aimt.• was firmly entrenched in Puritan-era 
abwluti~m; de,;;mcc was easilr defined by 
stncc, se\·cnteeth ccnrur} codes. Bur what 
happens when rhar 
ab~olure bedrock 
\"':J.mshes~ After all. what is so offens~'C 
about ''\\~e love Yak slurs" i.;n't that Jt i' 
deviant from <ocictal nornl.$, bur that It 
could be fnghtemngly m rune with them. 


f 
such public rnals become an 
opportunity 
for 
cliscu' ·mg 
>OCial 
\'lllues, what IS ar stake with the 5candal 
of Zea pq: The ~hock of many Yale 
students extend' bc)ond that tlmtS\, 
\\hire sign held by one of the frarerntt} \ 
pledges. 'Their faces 
were slnlslu, 
gleeful, calculated,'' explains Kathryn 
Oltvarius '11, the \\nmen's Ct:nter\ 
consutuenq coordl!l:Hnr Special En:ms 
CoorJinator Clatrc (;ordon '10 expresses 
a ,imilar disgust for the l-uger offense' 
of fraternil) culture at Yale. claurung 
that "they arc settled tor·> ·his :>ld wealth. 
this powerful network." ~urularly. L!ZZ) 
:O.!adva '08, who sympathizes with rhe 
Center but is not uwolved with any of the 
oificial femirust channels ar Yale. looks 
nor at the stgn but at the 'ccne as a whole. 
"It\ a bsg groun 0f ,.,,. ,," she sa··s ... ,,.d 
(rts a big group of 
and my first 
guy~ 
impression zs 
its aggresszve 
threatening. " 
that 
and 
m) first impression ~~ that it's aggressin• 
and threatening.'' \\ h1le some studem~ 
equate manly bombast wuh ,·iolence 
and privilege. Histor) Profe,sor Cynthta 
Rus~ert reads ~omcthmg more banal into 
the photo, "Their iaces looked a little 
vacuous ... " she says. "Unfornmatcly. 
that Ani111al f-/QJm bcha\ior is so easy m 
dt~mis~ as tri\-ial" 


~uch obscn"':J.Cons 
pomt to 
rt."3,~essmem of 
fraternity 
culrure. 
\\hose worst stereotypes arc displaytd 
in rhe photo. To rho~e offended. rht:lr 
rapacious hand signs s1gnal the Yiolcm 
edge of the male collectivc, 311 the m< tre 
un,ettling u·hen posl[ioned in the '<tnglc 
space of idenufiable female sohdarit\ on 
campus. The agar on the far nght c."\okes 
the m"lscuhnc cnutlcmcnt of a smok) 
boardroom. Yet '' har troubles students 
most IS not the crowd's violence bur It~ 
surpnsmg sense of place. Shoulder.; 
b:tck and head~ cocked to the side. thC} 
arc rcla.-xed, at home.·. Thi) eerie 5crenit]. 
'uggc,rs an a.'sumed unmuntt}. The photo 
is seen ro encapsulate culnsh brotherhood, 
male pmilege. and the gansh \\1des-nl.'SS 
that finds a \\1\} to thrive in a fortress of 
:tcadcmic excellence. 


Like pasr 'cxual conrrm. ersies. the 
trial of Zeta Psi con~ntutcs self-exorciSm 
of a kind. Reacnons to the mctdent 
have rhe potcntL"ll to reaffirm tolerance, 
dt\ er,lt)'. and progrc.·s) as ilie ,;crues 
hehmd Yale\ tmngincd identity. \Vhile 
some feminists hope that today's trial will 
bring them close to rhc Yale they expected 
;md wish to crc.tte. other students came 
to Y.tlc to search of the tradu:ional male 
camaradenc for which Yale has long been 
famou,. Frarcrruut.>s, lih· women, deserve 
to feel at hom~ on campus. "I '\\c-anted to 
jom ,1 ready-made soc1al scene, a tight-knit 
group of guys," n:calls Ad:un Edelstein 
'08, who chose Y:tk• for the brotherhood 
he iclr 1t \\ould pro,;de. Edelstein 
became a DKI~ brother and remembers 
feeling srruck b) the frarcrrury's lustory 
of leadership and alliance. "Parr of the 
DKI-.. pledge process ts learning about 
the lustory of the frarernit\·," he explains. 
''You memonze the former presidents, 
the facts of DKI :~ formation, and the 
mi~sron of the frarernlt)'." The Women's 
( Enter holds fast to its physical space 
ns a symbol of dcc1dcs of activism and 
h.trd-carned respect; /.era Psi pledges 
defend Yale as a space for character-
building horscpla) anJ hfelong masculine 
networks. Each camp makes a bid for a 
part of Yale\ pa<t; t.-ach holds a vision of 
the future they hope to create. 


In 1642. Spencer dangled limply for 
a colonial crowd as a public reaffirmation 
of pic(). In 1923, John Herron and 
TheoJore Smith packed their trunks and 
qu1etl) \\1thdrc\\ fwm Yale so that the 
orthodoxy of gentlemanly behavior could 
be pre,c.>rved. \s the contro\·ersy simmers 
111 2008. u remams unclear whether Yale 
ts capable of the social mobilization 
rhat characterized the public trials of 
our past. Reflecting on the reactions she 
has observed. l\lad\'11 si_ghs and adnuts, 
"In general tt'~ n polarizing event, not a 
umf) mg one." 


Pcrhap~ an affirmation 
of socral Yrrtues wJil once again evade 
us. Yale ts beyond publtc hangings and 
homophobic regulanons, but the myriad 
n.•acuons to "\'\'c love Yale sluts" have 
rC\ caled a hmt of conflicting ideals 
hdd by the Yale community. Would a 
sensanonal trial dc.-anse c>ur community of 
Its anxtcrics~ Or are they so deep-rooted 
th:u trial by fire 1~ as useless as tossing a 
\\ irch in a river ro sec 1f she floats? 

**Title: THE CRITlC.AL ANGLE**
**Author: Jordan Jacks**
**Page number(s): 43-45**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Law & Udder
Ex-Register reporter offs fictional Elis.

A
n me Sq mour, the 
r~;poner­
pror.o •ont t of Karl·n 
Olson'~ 
first "lt."' Han·n lll)'Ster} nm cl, 
describt:~ her thtckemng plot :t- "'l alies 
fucking \\.-ith their !J,c, and the h\cs of 
those around them.'' It':; a common story. 
But our heroine doesn't \\.-ork for }'D~ 
Sant, and the ~tor) rold m Jncrd ( ou·s 
isn't your ll\ crage dorm-room dtspure: 
among us pbyers arc a ~t-ed) exccumc, an 
escort serv-ice named "Come Togethl:r," 
and a srad· n.tkcd, \Cry dead Yale student 
on Htgh '-trrcct. E\en 1f her summary tsn't 
exacd; ne"' 'paper cop), the rcporrt'l' b 
right-"Th1' would become one helluva 
made-for-TV mo\'te." 


For Ol<on, a i'\cw Ha,cn name and 
former Rrgisttr reporter, u has become 
something jusr as cxcinng: the backbone 
of an award-winnmg m)Stery no~el set 
m her hometown. Olson's senes-thret· 
books. another forthcommg-follo\\'S a 
middle-aged beat reporter at the ficttonal 
j\'t~~ 1-la:.rn lltrald as she solves cnmes 
and complam' about her cxpandmg 
Febrw.ry 2008 
w:u,rhne, 111 the shado\\' of Yale's spirl:~ 
and gargoyles. The series mixes m JU~t 
enough feminine anx.iet) ("1 pulled d1e 
little black dress out of the laundry basket, 
but even if it had been clean, I'd had too 
much pizza and Mexican food m the bst 
couple of days to make it work for me') 
and romance ("He was looking so damn 
good, hts blue eyes twmkling. Ius biceps 
bulgmg as he shrugged out of Ius jacket') 
ro soften ItS gritty crime drama for a 
broader demographic. The books ha' c 
~old \\ell; since 2005. Obon has released a 
new episode each } car. followmg the Sara 
\nn Freed 
~femonal Award-wi.nrung 
Samtl Cozn \\1th 2006\ Stondhand Smokt 
and 200-\ Dtad tht Df!J. Shot Gir11s due 
out this fall. 


Central to the <enes' appeal IS thl 
characrer of \nrue ~ymour. a foul-
mouthed bachelorette u ho can get 
mugged one mrnurc, extol the \'lrtUCS of 
her fleece bathrobe the next, and sum 
It up \\lth a Bridget Jonesian lament of 
sexual frustration: "I liked the way tt felt 
on my skin, and I \\ondered how I could 
be horny after bc..-,ng b~'atcn up, but I was." 


Hut the 'eric~ atms to ,;olare more than 
the qutckl) -crodmg srranglchold men 
have m:~inratned on the mystery no,·el 
since 'f'br Mllltr.rr H1ko11. It upends another 
traditional expt•ctarion: that '\c\\ Haven rs 
nothing more than the home of Yale. The 
novels in the series showcase the Elm City 
as a community ap.trt from 1rs collegiate 
tics. hach book rakes place m a different 
ft'g!Oil of '\.e\\ H:ncn. s .. ,.r._.' . .-'ld Smokt 
dt-als \\ 11h :1.rson tn \\(>Oster S<Quare. while 
Dtad of tht Df!J rackles 11leg.t! unmigration 
tn hur Ha\en. Satrtd uzn is. thus far. the 
only nmcl ro spotlight the 1\'0C} to\\er. 


\nd spotlight Yale Jt doe'. In her 
quest to thsco~er who murdered srudent-
turncd-escort :\khssa Pc'llbody. ~mour 
takes coffee at Amcus, "a 'mall bookstore 
\\1th a fabulous coffcl' bar and wonderful 
muffins and 
~and\\1Che,," beratt.:s her 
CO\\'Orhrs for ordenng Dorruno\ in'tead 
of :-.all) 's, and 
walk~ aero" Cro"· 
Campus, ( )Jd Campus, and the ~aybrook 
courtyards. She interrogates the registrar 
to no avail, has com·ersaoons \\1th 
eyebrow-pterced students in coffee shop". 
and, m more than one scene, rehes on the: 
kindncs~ and chivalr) of a •·fnendly \sian 
kid." Before it ts all over, rwo Yalies arc 
dead-one bludgeoned in the heaJ b1 a 
small BuJJha statue, the other stabbcJ 
uni\·ersiry students are the.· plot's fodder, 
propelling the narraci\·c through the1r own 
criminal and sexual endc.:avors. Students 
arc the ones getting killed; students are 
the ones doing the killing. 


If a book like Chlor ts an} indtcation, 
tt's a genius marketing move. Ir's no secret 
that people ""ant co sec the Ivory Tower 
5 trip away the conventionSy the 
absurdist bovines) and the detective 
work) and you have an intriguing) 
strange allegory for the testy plight 
of Yale and the Elm City. 
scores of time,; on the torso and le!,>S. 
Thc..1· arc the \ iccims of an e~corr ~en icc. 
cocaine, jealous friends. and City Hall 
inmgue. 


Just a day tn the life. 


\VJhat is ir about Yale that encourages 
W such portraits? Pubhc fascination 
with I '.lis runs deep: from Ch/Qr Doe.r )a/tto 
Tht Shills ro Pom and Oid<:~n. middlcbrrm 
pop-culrure has delighted in sexualizmg. 
endangcrmg. 
or 
exterminating 
th( 
Bulldog. If mass media ts an) mdtcauon. 
we euher hke to sec Yalics gcttmg offcd 
or gcrting it on. In Satrtd Cous. Olson 
provides both: Melissa Pcabod1 tn ultra-
rich legacy type, nnd Allison SanJers, ,\ 
scholarship student. get involved in a 
seedr escort service that rakes them off 
campus. inro the beds of \\ealth) )•>ung 
crooks, and evenrually to the1r death~. 
Peabody falls at the hand~ of a Jt:alous 
roommate. \\iille ~anders is di:opatched h} 
a more comenaonal crimmal. Se)mour\ 
efforts w ~oh-c the case land her m the 
middle of can1pus. 


The book is uniCJUC among ()J,on\ 
novels because it dcliberatd} engages 
Yale srudent.~ a..; represcnt:l.D\I:S of ,m 
ongoing town gown d} namic. In rhc 
other f\\"0 books, Yale i~ a removed tsland 
whose opulence sen·cs mostl} as n foil 
ro loc.al affairs. :--:ew Haven j, tht: cit) of 
the Wooster mob, Fa.Lr Ha\t:n gangs, and 
illegal imnugration. But in Sacrrd Cou:r, 
-.ullied. "ex and ,;olcncc in the Ivy Lc.."ague 
sell because they art: thm~ ostensibly 
outside the privileged gates of academia: 
as htcral matters of life and death, they 
embod} the mosr basic human acts. 


Readers revel in highly educated munch 
for the san1e reasons dozens of Yale 
parents call their children worried stck 
Juring Sex \X'eek: they didn't think the 
kids had It ill them. \ book like Samd 
Con'S levels the playing field. Even your 
bnght neph=· could be a killer. 


I
f the Yalies in S01.-rtd Coils come off 
like a bunch of murJc.:rous, coke-
.tddled prostitutes, the cit)· of '-.e\\ Ha\·en 
doesn't alwars fare much bcrrer. The town 
is overrun by corrupt Ciry !I all politicians 
\\1th coteries of armed henchmen. The 
publisher of the nc\\ spaper is tm·oh-ed in 
a scam. \nrue gas thrc..-arcnmg notes, is 
mugged, held ar knife-point, and shot at. 
\. fat man named Hicke} tnes to convince 
her to JOin the escort sen ICC. \nnic notes 
how "on one block, the Gothic buildings 
of Yale to\\·cred over the street, but on 
the next, the netghborhood started gerttng 
sced1." She reminds herself not to walk 
ccrtam areas at night. 


The Elm Ctt)' surwundtng Yale ts, as 
Obon purs It in Drad OJ lht Dt!], "those 
other neighborhoods in ~ew Haven. 
where ..;hootings are JUSt a matter of 
course, routine 'for the patrol cops, a 
thrcc-mch police blotter." ~onethcless, 
just as she opposes the notion that New 
HaYen is nothing but a home for Yale, she 
won't succumb to the town's reputation 
for unchecked crime. In Sacrtd Cows, 
as Seymour walks down Chapel Street 
lookmg at the decorative bovines that give 
the novel its name (and its lead character 
an excuse to say "Fuck the Cows" as 
often as possible), she notes that "even 
though New Haven offered great theater, 
restaurants, nightlife, and shopping, there 
was still a large contingent out there in 
the suburbs who thought they'd become 
crime \,cams tf the)' crossed the city 
line." 


The characterization of New Haven 
in Olson's novels is loosely based on the 
reality of the ctty and heavily influenced 
by its mystery-novel pcdtgree. Given its 
genre, one that demands at least a little 
bit of criminal intrigue-a "whodunit" 
requires something to be dont--Olson's 
choice of serting doesn't necessarily 
demonize the Elm Cit); but she walks 
the line. If Olson is commenting on New 
Haven bv liberaong the metropolis from 
its collegtatc tenant, then the prevalence 
of crime m the novels-coupled with the 
city's recent criminal history-is another 
statement, a characterization of the sort 
that Olson seems so diligently to oppose. 


The .\ruue Sevmour senes easily exchanges 
one stereotype:. for another: ~ew Haven 
isn't only for srudent. .... There's plenty of 
room for cnrmnals. 


That ::-:ev.· Haven 1s defended for 
its many virrues in a novel dedicated to 
If mass media is 
any indication) we 
either like to see 
Yalies getting offed 
or getting it on. 
depicting its crimmal underbelly is one 
of the more inmguing facets of Olson's 
series. Multi-faceted and complex, the 
Elm Cit)' is probably the best-drawn 
character m the'e books, a bi.ls that bodes 
\\'ell for the city and poorly for the novels. 


Dozens of character: are flat "types": 
then:$ 1om, the gruff bachelor cop 
ami \.ruue's sern1 bo) fncnd, who keeps 
nothing but a ~txpack m the rcfrigeruor; 
Dick, the 1rntaungh t:arnest reponer 
consmnrh as 1gncd to \nme's beat; 
1arn, the cxhau ted editor; Patnc~:~, the 
r-:e,, York confidante uho lncs m New 
York and ui10 e purpose ts to come\ plot 
mformanon from an esteemed vantage 
pomr. 


Olson's '\ale students arc the mo t 
thml) dra\\ n. The academiCS m &) mour's 
company ha'c an empt). collegute 
gwdcbook glaze mer them. Th~) seem 
to congregate at \.rncus prcoseh ''hen 
\nrue needs a up, at lea t one 1s stoned, 
and they ncarl) always f.1ll mto either the 
"boolash" or ''parn aruma!" typcs-th.lt 
ts, tf the) 'n: not murderers or escorrs. 


Olson':; students arc either bonng, 
bcs\Hatcn:d 
autom.tton 
l'll\'tng 
lunaucs. Samd Co11--l mo r subversl\e 
element ts us resolute d~t.re to ktll the 
Yalt: student, euhcr b) numbmg hun 
mto banaltn or cndmg her life u tth stab 
wounds. 


Olson a surcd me that she felt 
no de trc to kill off ) rue students for 
am-dUng other than plot reason 
But 
the no,eJ' structure hmts at the touns 
larent des1re to take out obnmaous I lis 
carousmg m the u-ee hours of the mght 
The \cry panache w1th u tuch \IIi on 
:-.anders and Mtchellc Pcabod) arc done 
au':l) w1th berrays a bu of pleasure, 
extrapolaung ) rue' flawed rclanon hip 
u1th ~cw lla,·en to macabre IC\els. \\hat 
tr~:~kes JOfTYd COJZ:r so fa~onaung 1s neuhc r 
tht• failed lme life of \.nnie ~C)mour, nor 
the mexplicable Cm\ Parade that gn cs the 
no\ d It name, nor the mtolcrabl) bormg 
embezzlement r~:~rram ~ under!) mg much 
of the nO\cl\ mtngue. h ts the approach 
the no\c.:l takes toward town and gown. 


~tnp a\\':1) the comennons, the absurdtst 
bo\1nc . and the detc:cO\c work, and )OU 
ha\e an mmgumg, strange aUegof) for 
the t<:'l) phght of Yale and the I lm Clt). 


Of cour;e, u hen the reporter 
controlling that allegol'} sa) s dungs hkc 
"If I hadn't kno\\n about the fiann•c, 
J might ha\e taken alh-anragt: of the 
darkness since n had been a u h1lc SlnCl' 
I'd had my egg; poached," ceruin themes 
.m: bound ro be lost m translauon. But 
C\ en when put in \nnic Se) mour's sailor's 
mouth, J'acrrd Cou-1 chil'f tntcn:st rtmams 
ns struggle w Integrate Yale and 
~c..'\\ 
Ha\en, ~"'' Haven and .It:; rtpuranon, 
public pucepnon and rcaht. In rtus, 
:;c)mour rcrnatns a untf) mg figure, a 
p!7.7.a ob~c~~ed. 
rotr~:~nncall) confu ed 
['o.;ew 1-fa,en nanH \\ho bndgcs the gap 
between the flau'Cd pcrccpnon of a 
cnme·addled Elm Cm and the opulent 
t\ Of) tower m us nudst 


Olson nps more than bod1ces. "he 
takes amuenc,-about cnmc; about urban 
de\-elopment, about illegal unrrugranon-
from real life Rrgukr headlines, onl) 
to have ~)mour pur them back m the 
ficnonal Hrruld \\1th solunon attached. 
Karen 
Olson} 
a 
l\rew Haven native 
and former Register 
reporter, has wn·tten 
an an a1vard-winning 
JJrystery novel set in 
her hometown. 


'I he murderers arc caught, the corrupt 
ousted, 
the 
crumnals 
apprehended. 


\s m) stcry no\'els are meant to elicit 
anncipauon and sarisfacnon, it would be 
cas} to sec the books 10 Olson's series as 
pro,1dmg a utop~:~n vision for the cuy's 
unprovcmcm. In •oh;ng a ficnnous 
cnme, SC) mour can in some sense, to 
some cadre of paperback mystery-novel 
affioonados. soh·e the problems facing 
a 'cry real Cit) and a VCI'}' real school. 


SOCicl) 'll.'llflts to sec some mud on the 
1\ Of) to\\ er, but reader; ultimately want 
some sense of resolunon or progress. 


Dcspnc the murderers, the escort~, and 
the corrupnon, Olson's books arc, in the 
end, fundamentally optimistic-the series 
conunues, and the city ahvays remams to 
be wnttcn about. 

**Title: END1ill1E**
**Author: J' ura Jax**
**Page number(s): 46**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
~
END1ill1E 
First 
Sorry to eat and run! 


**Title: Jonathan Edwards**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 47**

Jonathan Edwards 
A graphic designer 
and writer, his book 
jacket designs for 
Alfred A Knopf have 
helped spawn o 
revolution in the art 
of American book 
packaging. 
His new novel, 
e learners will be 
published 
on February 19th. 
C ge presents 
Wednesday 
February 20th 
4:00pm 
