Publication date: March 2023
Volume: 55
Issue number: 4

**MASTHEAD:**
- Editors-in-Chief: Nicole Dirks, Dereen Shirnekhi
- Executive Editor: Jesse Goodman
- Managing Editor: J.D. Wright
- Associate Editors: Amal Biskin, Abbey Kim, Meg Buzbee, Yosef Malka, Jabez Choi, Cleo Maloney, Lazo Gitchos, Paola Santos, Ella Goldblum, Kylie Volavongsa, Yonatan Greenberg
- Senior Editors: Beasie Goddu, Madison Hahamy, Alexandra Galloway, Zachary Groz
- Copy Editors: Marie Bong, Edie Lipsey, Adrian Elizalde, Lukas Trelease, Rafaela Kottou, Yingying Zhao
- Creative Director: Kevin Chen
- Design Editors: Meg Buzbee, Charlotte Rica, Camille Chang, Karela Palazio, Etai Smotrich-Barr
- Photography: Lukas Flippo
- Members & Directors: Emily Bazelon, Peter Cooper, Jonathan Dach, Kathrin Lassila, Elizabeth Sledge, Fred Strebeigh
- Advisors: Neela Banerjee, Richard Bradley, Susan Braudy, Lincoln Caplan, Jay Carney, Andy Court, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Susan Dominus, David Greenberg, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Laura Pappano, Jennifer Pitts, Julia Preston, Lauren Rawbin, David Slifka, John Swansburg, Anya Kamenetz, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Nicole Allan, Margaret Bauer, Mark Badger and Laura Heymann, Anson M. Beard, Susan Braudy, Julia Calagiovanni, Elisha Cooper, Haley Cohen, Peter Cooper, Andy Court, The Elizabethan Club, Leslie Dach, David Freeman and Judith Gingold, Paul Haigney and Tracey Roberts, Bob Lamm, James Liberman, Alka Mansukhani, Benjamin Mueller, Sophia Nguyen, Valerie Nierenberg, Morris Panner, Jennifer Pitts, R. Anthony Reese, Eric Rutkow, Lainie Rutkow, Laura Saavedra and David Buckley, Anne-Marie Slaughter, Elizabeth Sledge, Caroline Smith, Gabriel Snyder, Elizabeth Steig, Aliyya Swaby, John Jeremiah Sullivan, Daphne and David Sydney, Kristian and Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Townsend Wilson, Daniel Yergin, William Yuen


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**

We Will Live in a Corner House - Anaiis Rios-Kasoga
Jennifer’s Body - Anaiis Rios-Kasoga
Dash of Fancy - Amal Biskin
for Abel - J.D. Wright
Kissing One of Your Queer Awakenings - Adrian Elizalde
**REDACTED**, crossword, by Jesse Goodman, page 55.
Counter Memories - Jabez Choi
Queer Christians in New Haven and at Yale - Abbey Kim
A Scene of Outsiders -  
Yalesbians, Sappho, and the Lesbian Life of the Party - Sasha Carney
Drawing it Out - Hannah Szabó
Where Boys Become Men - Jools Fu
Grocery Store - Amal Biskin
Berlin Poem for Owen - Ella Goldblum
Waiting for Care - Theia Chatelle and Iz Klemmer


**Title: Letter from the editors**
**Author: The Managing Board**
**Page number(s): 2**

Dear readers, 
The New Journal’s tagline has always been: “The Magazine about Yale and 
New Haven.” Our mission, as we understand it, is to represent these spaces 
through the stories of the people who occupy them. Recently, we’ve been 
thinking more about how best to do so. 

We began our year as a managing board by discovering a trove of dusty 
archives—hundreds and hundreds of time capsules of the University and 
the city. We ended the year with TNJFest, where the past collided with the 
present as alums of the last fifty years descended on the Branford Common 
Room. These bookends on our term have affirmed to us that TNJ is a living 
history, and journalism can do essential record-keeping. More than that, 
we’ve been reminded that longform can follow the narratives behind the 
numbers, make human the abstractions of headlines, and in doing so disrupt 
assumptions; contradict generalizations; and reveal gaps in the common 
discourse.

Across the nation, queer people are facing renewed threats. Dozens of bills 
have been passed in state legislatures this year that restrict transgender 
people from accessing gender-affirming care, despite medical consensus that 
this care is sound and necessary. Anti-LGBTQ+ violence is on the rise, and 
the tired caricature of queer people as predatory “groomers” has reappeared 
in popular media. At what may be a regressive inflection point for LGBTQ+ 
rights in America, the future hangs uncertain. 

In this issue, Abbey Kim explores queer Christians’ ongoing battles for 
acceptance in their churches. Jabez Choi chronicles the decline of gay bars, 
and asks the question: what is the meaning of a “safe” space? Sasha Carney 
traces the history of lesbian social life on campus, and Jools Fu navigates the 
complicated masculinity of the Singapore Armed Forces. Theia Chatelle 
and Iz Klemmer explore the obstacles trans kids face when seeking gender-
affirming care, while Hannah Szabó remembers the spaces and people that 
supported her own journey during childhood. 

These stories aim to situate some of New Haven’s queer life in both history 
and experience. We hope to do in this issue the same thing we have sought 
to do since 1967, a purpose reiterated in our October 2001 issue’s letter from 
the editors: to put our moment in context.

TNJ love,
The Managing Board


**Title: Thank you to our donors**
**Author: N/A**

*Donated twice. Thank you!
Neela Banerjee*
Anson M. Beard
James Carney
Andrew Court 
Romy Drucker 
Jeffrey Foster 
David Gerber 
David Greenberg* 
Matthew Hamel
Makiko Harunari 
James Lowe 
Chaitanya Mehra
Ben Mueller 
Sarah Nutman 
Peter Phleger 
Jeffrey Pollock
Adriane Quinlan 
Elizabeth Sledge 
Gabriel Snyder 
Fred Strebeigh 
Arya Sundaram
Stuart Weinzimer
Steven Weisman 
Suzanne Wittebort


**Title: flash fiction**
**Author: Anaiis Rios-Kasoga**
**Page number(s): 3**

We Will Live in a Corner House
By Anaiis Rios-Kasoga


**Title: asides**
**Author: Anaiis Rios-Kasoga, Amal Biskin**

Jennifer’s Body

Dash of Fancy
By Amal Biskin


**Title: poems**
**Author: J.D. Wright, Adrian Elizalde**

for Abel
By J.D. Wright

Kissing One of Your Queer Awakenings
By Adrian Elizalde


**Title: crossword**
**Author: Jesse Goodman**
**Page number(s): 3, 55**



**Title: Counter Memories**
**Author: Jabez Choi**
**Page number(s): 4, 16**

Is gay nightlife getting quieter? A writer 
explores the histories inside New Haven 
gay bars.
By Jabez Choi


**Title: cover story**
**Author: Abbey Kim**
**Page number(s): 4, 42**

Queer Christians in New Haven and at Yale 
are finding ways to enrich their spiritual lives 
through their lgbtq+ identities.
By Abbey Kim


**Title: point of departure**
**Page number(s): 4**

A Scene of Outsiders
At Space Ballroom, Danya Blokh is in for a night of 
“non-denominational, non-binary” hardcore.



**Title: snapshots**
**Author: Sasha Carney**
**Page number(s): 4, 9**

Yalesbians, Sappho, and the 
Lesbian Life of the Party
A genealogy of lesbian social spaces at Yale.
By Sasha Carney


**Title: Drawing it Out**
**Author: Hannah Szabó**
**Page number(s): 4, 14**

Local advocate Tony Ferraiolo guides trans youth—and their 
parents—through the complications of their gender journeys.
By Hannah Szabó


**Title: personal essay**
**Author: Jools Fu**

Where Boys Become Men
Violence and masculinity in the Singapore Armed Forces.
By Jools Fu



**Title: Grocery Store**
**Author: Amal Biskin**
**Page number(s): 4, 40**

Grocery Store


**Title: Berlin Poem for Owen**
**Author: Ella Goldblum**
**Page number(s): 4, 33**

Berlin Poem for Owen
By Ella Goldblum


**Title: Waiting for Care**
**Author: Theia Chatelle and Iz Klemmer**
**Page number(s): 4, 34**

At the Yale Pediatric Gender Program, 
trans kids say they receive great care—but 
it’s not easy to get.
By Theia Chatelle and Iz Klemmer



**Title: Points of Departure: A Scene of Outsiders**
**Author: Danya Blokh**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
4
March 2023        TheNewJournal
Points of Departure
A Scene of 
Outsiders
At Space Ballroom, Danya Blokh is 
in for a night of “non-denominational, 
non-binary” hardcore.

O
n February 12, 2023, Hamden’s 
Space Ballroom was a veritable con-
vention of musical subgenres. Millennial 
hardcore fans in gray hoodies with the 
hoods up, older bearded metalheads 
wearing band T-shirts, and young queer 
punks with piercings and tattoos milled 
about the small, dim venue. The crowd’s 
energy felt more like a school dance than 
a punk show, and even though small mosh 
pits formed for hard-hitting local hard-
core bands Intercourse and Kidnapped, 
they fizzled out quickly once it became 
clear that most fans preferred watching to 
dancing. As a casual fan of hardcore who 
had always enjoyed the collective cathar-
sis of a good mosh-pit, I came toward the 
front of the audience and hoped for some 
mayhem as the headliner, Space Camp, 
ascended to the stage.

I got mayhem, alright. June Aino and 
Daisy Josefa, the two vocalists and core 
members of Space Camp, led a pleth-
ora of supporting musicians up to the 
platform, packing the small stage with 
an upright bass, a cello, a sousaphone, a 
trombone, a synth and a drum set, with 
a second drummer set up in the middle 
of the audience. The musicians smiled 
broadly as they sound checked, their 
classical instruments contrasting starkly 
with their tattooed arms and all-black 
outfits. But nothing could have prepared 
me for the overwhelming cacophony of 
orchestral punk that followed. Somehow, 
with no guitar or bass, Space Camp’s 
music was more forceful than any punk 
band I’d heard.

With the drummer in the middle 
of the crowd, there wasn’t any room to 
start a mosh pit. But there was no need 
for one; the crowd’s attention was fix-
ated on the hardcore symphony before 
us. The chaos I’d expected in the audi-
ence was happening on stage instead: 
June and Daisy screamed powerfully, the 
brass instruments boomed, and the sec-
ond drummer wielded a drill during one 
song and a bugle horn during another. 
One local reviewer noted in their article 
about the concert that the sheer force of 
Space Camp’s sound shattered a light-
bulb in the bathroom, but no one around 
me blinked an eye. As one of the attend-
ees, Connecticut resident Myles Vincent, 
phrased it afterwards, “it’s just an explo-
sion. Rather than going to see a band go 
to play their songs, it’s like you’re going 
to see something go down.”

Brass instruments and power tools 
are rare at most live shows, but particu-
larly in hardcore, an aggressive offshoot 
of punk music with a relatively strict 
sound and ethos. While the genre var-
ies between bands and over time, there 
is nonetheless a defined set of expecta-
tions for hardcore songs: fast and brutal 
riffs, deeply screamed vocals, and cli-
mactic song sections called “breakdowns” 
intended to make listeners go wild in 
the mosh pit. Historically, hardcore’s 
aggressive attitude, as well as its lyrical 
preference for themes like hometown 
pride and the straight-edge lifestyle 
over the progressive politics of anarchist 
bands, attracted mostly male musicians 
and listeners to hardcore shows. Space 
Camp’s novel sound, which their bio 
calls “non-denominational, non-binary 
hardcore,” is unique in a genre as stylisti-
cally codified as hardcore. Consequently, 
whenever they’re booked on a show with 
a bunch of hardcore bands, “it’s a mixed 
bill, because we have single handedly 
mixed the bill,” says Daisy. 

Yet this very love for instrumental 
play created Space Camp in the first 
place. June and Daisy became friends in 
fourth grade after finding themselves to 
be among the few fourth graders regis-
tered to learn trombone at their South 
Windsor Elementary School. “Our 
houses were so close together that we 
could walk through a neighborhood 
and some woods and be at each other’s 
houses,” says June when I speak with the 
band a few days after the show. Daisy 
started playing guitar and drums, while 
June kept learning trombone and picked 
up keys, and they briefly experimented 
with surf rock in high school before 
officially forming Space Camp in March 
2013. Their playful debut record consists 
of Daisy playing drums, June playing 
synth, and a friend reading passages 
aloud from books they found in their 
practice space. “At the time we were like, 
this is a cool concept,” says Daisy. “It’s since 
been wiped from the internet.”

In 2014, the band added a bassist, 
June introduced a full piano in addition 
to their microKORG synth, and Space 
Camp began booking more shows and 
seriously recording music. Their stylis-
tic influences at the time were hardcore 
bands like Ceremony, Punch, and Code 
Orange Kids, whose influence is still evi-
dent in Space Camp’s roughly screamed 
vocals, ominously dissonant chords, and 
punchy song sections. “We’ve always 
been suckers for a lip-curling hard-
core breakdown,” Daisy tells me. Yet 
instrumental diversity remained inte-
gral to their ethos; listening through 
their Bandcamp releases, you’ll hear just 
about everything—tuba, guitar, contra-
bass, oboe—all absorbed into their heavy 
punk sound. Their latest album Gold Star 
was released in January of this year and 
continues this tradition with twenty-nine 
minutes of magnificent auditory havoc.

Space Camp’s take on hardcore has 
thrived in Connecticut largely because of 
the state’s unique music scene. Whereas 
more densely populated states tend to 
stratify into separate subgenres with 
minimal overlap, Connecticut’s small 
size leads to a melding of styles perfect 
for Space Camp’ eclectic blend of genres. 
As Daisy says, there’s a distinct charm 
to a place where only one show is hap-
pening on a given night: “If it’s a Friday 
night in Philadelphia in July, there’s six 
shows going on. You can get the best 
line-up at a sick venue, and everyone 
you know will still text you and say, sorry, 
we’re going to another show. But if we’re 
playing in Connecticut, everyone who’s 
interested is there, it is the thing to do.” 

illustrations by meg buzbee


5
Space Camp is only one example of 
Connecticut bands’ propensity for music 
experimentation. Tarek, the lead singer 
of Intercourse, says there’s an entire 
scene of local experimental punk—“I 
call it outsider hardcore”—dedicated 
to fostering a left-leaning, welcoming 
milieu opposed to the exclusivity of 
more regimented music scenes. “We’re 
not into that macho, gatekeepy shit,” he 
says proudly. Intercourse, which has been 
playing since 2014 and is soon releas-
ing their new album Halo Castration 
Institute, is itself a genre-bending project 
too, with “one foot in hardcore and one 
foot in noise rock.” 

The Connecticut scene’s inclusivity 
doesn’t just apply to the music, but also 
to the community itself. While hardcore 
is often perceived as a hypermasculine 
boy’s club, Connecticut’s outsider hard-
core shows are “a place for a lot of people 
where they can go and be themselves,” 
says Tarek. “If you want to wear make-up 
and goth out, no one’s gonna bat an eye.” 
Tarek, whose family is Egyptian, grew up 
as one of the only people of color in the 
small town of Naugatuck, Connecticut. 
His upbringing was full of alienating 
and aggressive encounters with white 
schoolmates. Connecticut’s music scene 
was also exclusionary, though in differ-
ent ways. “People at shows used to tell 
me, don’t wear a Marilyn Manson shirt or 
you’ll get the shit beat out of you, make sure 
to wear a Cannibal Corpse shirt or some-
thing neutral,” Tarek remembers, laugh-
ing. Yet the young, left-leaning audience 
of Connecticut’s current outsider hard-
core scene makes no space for such hos-
tility, from musical elitism to racism and 
misogyny.  “There’s lots of trans people, 
there’s lots of queer people, there’s lots 
of people of color. This is a really inclu-
sive scene for everybody, and we’re really 
proud of that. We’ve had people come 
through and say, wow, this little niche of 
Connecticut is really special.” 

This warm and welcoming attitude 
suffused the venue after Space Camp’s 
set concluded. Young newcomers to the 
scene and longtime outsider hardcore fans 
alike chatted eagerly with me about what 
we’d just experienced together and about 
other shows they’d recently attended. If 
the disparate contingents had struggled to 
gel at the start of the night, the singular 
intensity of Space Camp’s eclectic sound 
seemed to have bonded everyone at the 
Space Ballroom, dissolving any residual 
awkwardness in the space.

I shook hands with Daisy and 
Tarek, who both warmly thanked me 
for coming and told me they’d be glad 
to interview. In the merch line, one fan 
told me he’d grown up in Connecticut, 
moved to Austin for nearly a decade, 
and only just returned. The scene in his 
time had been aggressive and intimidat-
ing, he told me, and the warmth of Space 
Ballroom’s crowd shocked him. Though 
this was his first time seeing Space Camp, 
his beaming smile while talking about 
his experience at the concert suggested 
he was bound to become an outsider 
hardcore regular.

I left with a newly purchased Space 
Camp T-shirt tucked under my arm. 
Every time I’ve worn it since, at least one 
person has stopped me to ask if I caught 
them at Space Ballroom. Daisy was right 
about the perks of a small music scene; 
these people really had all been to the 
same show as me. The next time I find 
myself toppled over in a Connecticut 
hardcore mosh pit, I’m certain one of 
these familiar faces will be around to lift 
me up. ∎
Danya Blokh is a junior in 
Timothy Dwight College.

**Title: Where Boys Become Men**
**Author: Jools Fu**
**Page number(s): 6**

6
Where Boys 
Become Men
Violence and masculinity in the Singapore Armed Forces.
By Jools Fu
Personal Essay
Content warning: This piece 
contains a description of self-harm.

M
y combat boots were still 
flecked with dirt and my for-
est-green fatigues were covered 
in mud and sweat. Somehow, my beret 
sustained its creases despite soaking up 
the bits of camouflage face paint that I 
hadn’t managed to properly wash off. 
The city was dead quiet. It was 3 a.m., 
my phone was out of battery, and I had 
to walk home from the hospital. 

My nineteen-year-old recruit, Bing 
Jie, was hooked up to an IV and probably 
fast asleep. Two months ago at this time, 
he probably would’ve been at home, 
awake maybe, playing video games, 
watching TV. At the time when he first 
enlisted, he told me, he was a profes-
sional League of Legends player. He 
had come fourth in a national competi-
tion the year before. In terms of national 
service, he really wanted to serve in 
the cyber security division. Instead, he 
was tossed into infantry, and he came 
under my charge. Rhabdomyolysis had 
broken down his major muscles. Now, he 
couldn’t walk without excruciating pain 
in both legs. The moment when he had 
collapsed into a messy heap of limbs and 
grass, he couldn’t even call out for help.

While we were in the waiting 
room, Bing Jie’s dad and older brother 
arrived. After a terse conversation with 
me, they sat with him on the other side 
of the room, away from me.  They tried 
their best not to talk to me directly, 
and neither of them used my name. 
I was “sergeant,” a tool of the state’s 
military apparatus. 

photos by jools fu



**Title: Where Boys Become Men**
**Author: Jools Fu**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Basic Military Training (BMT) 
is a milestone in the lives of all 
Singaporean men. It marks their man-
datory enlistment into the Singapore 
Armed Forces (SAF). The training cen-
ter isn’t even on the mainland; boys are 
packed onto ferries and shipped to Pulau 
Tekong, an island right off the coast of 
Singapore. It’s where their identification 
cards are exchanged, and suddenly they 
are no longer “citizens” but “NSF” (Full-
time National Servicemen). It’s where the 
SAF shaves the boys’ heads and the tropi-
cal sun burns their scalps. It’s where they 
fire their first rifle, where they dig their 
first trench, and where they start the end-
less cycle of physical and strategic combat 
training. After two months of grueling 
regimentation, recruits graduate and are 
then assigned to military vocations. The 
top 20 percent of recruits are sent to com-
mand school to undergo further combat 
training, Officer Cadet School (OCS) to 
become an officer, or Specialist Cadet 
School (SCS) to become a sergeant. But 
BMT is the start of any military career. Its 
motto: “Where boys become men.”


I entered BMT as an 18-year-old, 
having gone to high school in the 
United Kingdom and therefore largely 
unfamiliar 
with 
Singaporean 
soci-
ety. National Service had always been 
something I dreaded. All throughout 
high school I had been bullied by other 
boys, who called me a “faggot” and 
kicked me when teachers weren’t look-
ing. I was often reduced to tears, made 
to feel unfathomably small, and help-
lessly alone. If high school was like 
that, I couldn’t imagine what the army 
would be like. I considered myself a pro-
gressive, I thought militaries shouldn’t 
exist, and I knew my queerness was not 
accepted. I made the conscious choice 
to remain closeted. I enlisted with the 
bold assumption that the army was not 
going to change me or my beliefs. But to 
avoid being criticized or belittled, I tried 
my best to excel in this performance 
of masculinity. 


I did well. My athleticism translated 
well to military training. I accepted the 
torrent of insults and verbal abuses my 
sergeants hurled at me. And when I was 
commended for my abilities, a part of me 
truly enjoyed it. For the first time in my 
life, I was considered tough and strong. 
I completed BMT fifth in my platoon of 
sixty-four, and I earned a position in 
SCS. A week later, I started my training 
to become a sergeant and a commander.


In SCS, I spent six months learning 
more advanced forms of combat and 
familiarizing myself with a diverse array 
of weapons, from machine guns to RPGs. 
I navigated miles of dense vegetation 
while carrying a seventy-pound field 
pack. I survived in the jungle for nine 
days without any contact with the out-
side world. With the completion of each 
exercise, the joy I found in the military 
became more real. I enjoyed infantry 
training in a way that would have been 
entirely alien less than a year before, 
intoxicated with my adaptation to an 
ideal masculinity. When I graduated, I 
was assigned to be a BMT trainer. Upon 
receiving my posting order, I promised 
myself I would be different, patient. “Be 
the change you want to see” was what I 
kept repeating to myself.


I remember the first time I made 
another person cry. He was part of the 
first batch of recruits I ever trained. In 
the first few weeks of their training, 
the recruits are given snacks to eat at 
night, as a part of their grace period: 
packaged buns, stuffed with artificially 
flavored cream the color and texture of 
playdough. The buns tasted like noth-
ing but sugar, which was pure heaven 
compared to the nauseating food that 
we ate at the cookhouse. I’d had a 
rough day—contrary to my expecta-
tions, being a trainer was not simple 
and I was growing more and more frus-
trated with how ineffective I felt. My 
strategy of patience seemed completely 
inept compared to the fear other com-
manders were able to strike into their 
recruits. As much as I wanted to be 
morally strong, I felt myself becoming 
alienated.  I was barely sleeping, and 
I hardly had time to eat. So, when I 
caught a glimpse of a recruit running 
out of his bunk to grab an extra bun 
from the parade square after lights out, 
I lost it. What came out was closer to 
barking than yelling, and it echoed so 
loudly that some heads peeked out from 
the fifth floor. “What the fuck do you 
think you’re doing?” He dropped the 
bun instantly, keeping his head down as 
I unleashed my wild wrath on him. As 
he walked away, I realized the blotches 
on his shirt were not sweat marks, but 
tears. When I reentered the company 
office, my friends and fellow command-
ers dapped me up. Later, my captain 
pulled me aside and commended me 
for enforcing discipline. As I went back 
to my bunk, I smiled for the first time 
in a while.


Bing Jie was in my third and final 
batch of recruits. By then, I had grown 
into a seasoned trainer. I had learned 
to harness my unbridled fury on my 
recruits, breaking them down physically 
and mentally into passive bodies, mold-
able soldiers. My rage was a defense 
mechanism, a way to throw others off 
my trail. If I could be “tough” and harsh 
on my recruits, no one, not even the 
boys from high school, could call me 
a “faggot” anymore. Before enlistment, 
a batch is given a grade based on their 
expected physical and mental compe-
tency. My first two batches had been A’s; 
Bing Jie’s was a C, and I felt the differ-
ence immediately. No matter how hard I 
pushed, they couldn’t meet my timings. 
They were consistently late, none of 
them could perform any marching drills 
in sync, some couldn’t even hold up a 
rifle without shaking from the effort. It 
was a combination of physical inability 
and mental disinterest. But I had to be 
the one that got them there.


The Combat Circuit is BMT’s most 
difficult physical training. It requires 
recruits to dress in full battalion order, 
including 
field 
packs, 
suffocating 
armored vests, and heavy helmets. Then, 
they’re thrown into an outdoor training 
ground, made to climb steep hills, dash 
from tree to tree, and crawl through 
thick mud. The exercise is supposed 
to simulate the motions of jungle war-
fare. When I was a recruit, our sergeant 
shouted insults at us as we did the cir-
cuit, and I did the same to my recruits. 
Nothing was off limits. I was telling 
them how worthless they were as they 
scrambled about, their rifles swinging 
wildly by their neck, knocking into 
their chins. Suddenly someone shouted 
out in alarm. Bing Jie had disintegrated 
into a crumpled heap underneath his 
field pack, which was larger than him. 
I thought he was faking it. Three hours 
later, after the medical staff had evalu-
ated he needed to be sent to a hospital, I 
volunteered to go.


My commanding officer gave 
me the next few days off, and 
my house wasn’t far from the hospi-
tal. Under moonlight, the quiet roads 
felt like burgeoning gulfs. I reached 
into my pocket to find a crushed pack 
of Marlboro Reds for a smoke, a habit 
I had picked up in SCS, but I couldn’t 
find my lighter. Somewhere along the 
way, a car drove past me, its headlights 
illuminating my dirty silhouette against 
an empty shopping mall. At the sight 
of me, the driver was startled. I felt 
like a ghost from the jungle, a savage 
specter haunting the city. About a mile 
from my house, I passed by the twen-
ty-four-hour McDonalds that I used to 
beg my mum to take me to when I was 
a kid. A group of drunk teenage boys 
was there, trying to scale the attached 
playground. I was reminded of combat 
obstacle courses. In a couple years at 
most, they too would be starting BMT, 
like I had, like Bing Jie did, like all of 
us would. It was an unending cycle of 
vicious masculinity: violence begetting 
more violence. Staring at them, I felt 
a shuddering discomfort. I averted my 
eyes and walked home.


In the next two months, I graduated 
from the military and arrived at Yale. 
On my first night out in New Haven, 
my combat boots soaked up sticky 
concoctions of beer, vodka, and fruit 
mixers instead of the squelching dirt, 
dead leaves, and rifle shells of the jungle 
floor. As I danced in the middle of the 
sloshing crowd, a group of men snaked 
their way in, bluntly pushing through 
me. A couple months prior, I would’ve 
shoved back, maybe more. But, some-
thing had shifted since that night walk. 
To protect myself, I had adopted the 
violent tools of those before me, leaving 
Bing Jie in the hospital. Performing mas-
culinity had not caused more harm. So 
I simply stared at them, not wanting to 
engage anymore. 


I thought that I’d find solace in queer 
spaces, because it was the first time I 
could be so open about my own queer-
ness. At an Office of LGBTQ Resources 
mixer, I was handed a nametag. “What 
do I write here?” I asked someone. “Your 
pronouns!” they answered. I tentatively 
put down “he/him,” unsure if it was 
who I wanted to be anymore, but equally 
terrified of the alternative. The group 
shared their collective trauma: the ways 
in which they were shunned, bullied, 
and derided for their difference, largely 
by the men in their lives. I thought about 
every punishment I had ever subjected 
my recruits to. With each anecdote 
getting heavier and heavier, I left early, 
ashamed of myself. I hadn’t said a word 
to anyone.


I felt helplessly alone those first few 
months, but I refused to ask for help. 
On Halloween night, while everyone 
around me prepared their costumes and 
left for parties, I laid paralyzed in my 
dorm. Without thinking, I grabbed a 
pair of scissors from my table and made 
around a half-dozen slashes on my fore-
arm. Later that night, one of my suite-
mates called 911, and I was escorted to 
the psychiatric ward of Yale New Haven 
Hospital. While undergoing innumer-
able administrative, psychological, and 
medical procedures, what struck me 
the most was how easily my body fell 
into the monolithic category of “male.” I 
kept thinking about my position in the 
genealogy of manhood that I had known 
before: from the boys in school, the ser-
geants that trained me, and finally me to 
Bing Jie. I didn’t want to be a part of the 
lineage anymore. When I left the hos-
pital, I walked back to my dormitory in 
the clear, cold New Haven morning air. 
The sun was the brightest thing I could 
see and a part of me strangely felt stable. 
Being a “man” was eating me alive, so I 
decided to stop.


In five months, I will have spent 
more time outside the military than in 
it. There is always an impulse to roman-
ticize those times: the late night instant 
noodle parties, the raves we went to 
on our days off, the satisfying sense 
of exhaustion after finishing an exer-
cise. I still miss catching crabs off the 
old bridge that we snuck out to when 
our recruits were asleep, and the genu-
ine moments of tenderness in between 
smoke breaks and barking orders. That’s 
what I instinctively remember about 
all of it. But the SAF’s commands are 
all still there, in encrypted WhatsApp 
messages on my phone. When writing 
this piece, I spent hours sifting through 
them. The image of Bing Jie, unable to 
even crawl in that field, is still there. ∎


Jools Fu is a sophomore in  
Pierson College.


**Title: Jennifer’s Body**
**Author: Anaiis Rios-Kasoga**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

The first time I watch Jennifer’s Body I am 
a budding adolescent huddled under my 
comforter during the first few months of the 
pandemic. Stale bedroom air presses into 
my lungs while crumbs brush against my 
unshaven legs. Over the next hour and forty 
minutes I am overcome by an unfamiliar 
zeal as I take in the bright outfits, hilarious 
dialogue, and mid-2000s emo soundtrack 
that plays while Jennifer Check and her best 
friend Needy unconvincingly pretend they 
aren’t in love with each other. The twentieth 
time I watch the movie is on 35mm at The 
Roxy in New York during my first summer 
on my own. I linger at the entrance and 
smile when I realize I can’t spot a single man. 
In fact, I am surrounded by women who 
definitely had a crush on Megan Fox when 
they were 14. And in the velvet enclosure 
of the theater, we are teenagers again. The 
salt and butter of fresh popcorn mingles in 
the still air. We are suspended in a collective 
coming of age. We are filled to the brim 
with the kind of zeal you experience when 
you are finally seen.

Aside


**Title: Yalesbians, Sappho, and the Lesbian Life of the Party**
**Author: Sasha Carney**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Anna tender was “already very out” 
as bisexual when she came to Yale 
in 2018. Her first week on campus, 
she followed the stream of nervous first 
years to the fraternity houses on High 
Street, towards what seemed to be the 
archetypal college party: red Solo cups, 
a watered-down keg, and unremarkable 
music shaking the sticky walls. As she 
relaxed into the party, she began to dance 
with a girl next to her, letting her hands 
rest easily on her waist. Half-drunk, and 
thinking of very little except enjoying 
the night, Anna kissed her.
“Huge mistake,” she says of the 
public kiss now. A man leaned in and 
asked, leering, “Can I join?” They broke 
apart. Over the next few days, she found 
that the news of the kiss had spread 
through her residential college, without 
her knowledge or consent. People she 
barely knew “freaked out” at the fact 
that Anna, with her long hair and more 
femme style of dress, hadn’t been what 
they expected of her. A carefree moment 
turned into a public dissection of her 
sexuality. “After that,” she says about the 
party, “I was like, ‘Oh, okay. I get it. This 
is not a space for me.’”

She stopped going to frat parties, 
and started befriending more queer 
women: people she met in classes, her 
modern dance group, mutual friends, 
and hookups. Somebody added her to 
an email list for an organization called 
“Sappho,” an informal social group that 
hosted a semesterly party for queer 
women and nonbinary people. They 
promised a night out free from the 
anxiety that Anna felt at frats. Her soph-
omore year, she arrived at a “Euphoria”-
themed party in the basement of the 
women’s rugby team apartment on Elm 
Street. This was no Bud Light-ruled 
rager: attendees adorned themselves 
with glitter, sipping colorful, intricate 
cocktails made by student bartender 
Lauren Lee. She had already started to 
attend “smaller, more intimate” parties 
dominated by queer women, from wine 
nights hosted by girlfriends of friends 
to a set of lingerie parties hosted by an 
all-woman society. But Sappho was the 
largest gathering of queer women she’d 
seen in one space.
At “the Gay Ivy,” where, according 
to a Wall Street Journal article published 
in 1987, at least “one in four” students 
are some kind of gay, lesbian social life 
is hardly an underground niche. But 
over the decades, Yale’s lesbians and 
queer women have wrestled with how 
to carve out a social life that is safe but 
still exciting.


I
n September 1975, a record twelve 
women attended a meeting of the Gay 
Alliance at Yale (GAY), a mostly male dis-
cussion and advocacy group. It was the 
height of the lesbian feminist movement, 
and some young lesbians were grow-
ing frustrated with what they saw as the 
patriarchal focus of gay activism across 
the United States. Four years before, the 
Yale Women’s Center was founded as a 
space for undergraduate women to gather. 
In 1970, the activist Del Martin published 
an essay, “If That’s All There Is” in the 
lesbian review The Ladder, where she con-
demned gay rights organizations as sexist. 
Lesbians—growing doubly frustrated by 
the homophobia they experienced from 
straight women and the marginalization 
within gay spaces—felt they needed a 
space to breathe.

Two lesbian undergraduates, the 
out-and-proud Tara Ayres and a par-
tially anonymous woman identified 
only as “Sarah” by The Yale Daily News, 
formed a Yale-registered sister group to 
GAY known as “Yalesbians.” On a balmy 
September night, twenty lesbians and 
self-identified “straight woman” allies 
met for the first time at the GAY room 
in Hendrie Hall. They adopted the for-
mat of “consciousness-raising circles,” 
open feminist discussions where women 
connected wider political issues to the 
struggles of their everyday lives. The 
organization also co-ran multiple proj-
ects with GAY, including a telephone 
counseling service and a weekly radio 
hour called “Come Out Tonight.”

Yale’s Weekly Bulletin and Calendar 
initially ignored requests to publicize 
Yalesbians’ weekly meetings. After a few 
weeks, they finally responded and began 
to reluctantly spread the word. Through 
word of mouth and print ads, member-
ship grew to about one hundred people. 
As co-founder, Tara noted Yalesbians’ 
membership was a low estimate of the 
true proportion of lesbians on cam-
pus, arguing in a 1977 report to the Yale 
Corporation that the average gay woman 
at Yale “is probably not vocally a lesbian, 
and is afraid to be identified as such.”

On New Year’s Eve in 1976, a fire 
destroyed part of Hendrie Hall, burning 
out the room where Yalesbians and GAY 
met, as well as the headquarters of the 
service frat Alpha Psi Omega. While the 
frat was re-housed almost immediately, 
the administration dodged Ayres’ inqui-
ries about finding a space for Yalesbians 
for over a month. In late February, Tara 
and GAY member Jack Winkler were 
finally able to march up to the Associate 
Dean of Student Affairs’ office to secure 
a new space in Bingham.

Off campus, meanwhile, many les-
bians could still find social and politi-
cal community in the lesbian feminist 
scene in New Haven. “By the end of 
the [1970s],” Yale alum and former 
Yale LGBTQ history professor George 
Chauncey wrote in The Yale Alumni 
Magazine, “New Haven was home to 
an extraordinarily vibrant and complex 
women’s culture and lesbian feminist 
movement: the Feminist Union; femi-
nist bookstores, women’s health centers, 
self-defense classes.” While Yale lesbians 
(and Yalesbians) found political homes 
in New Haven’s more radical feminist 
scene, they often came cleaved closer to 
campus to party.


B
y the late nineteen-seventies 
and early nineteen-eighties, separat-
ism was no longer the word of the day. 
Maia Ettinger, a former official leader 
of Yalesbians, told me that by the nine-
teen-eighties, the gay “scene” was more 
multiracial and cross-gender 
than the “pretty white” nine-
teen-seventies 
separatist 
world.  She moved off-campus 
to 12 Whalley Avenue, where 
she lived with fellow Yale 
gays Judith Rodenbeck, Lisa 
Kennedy, and the late Donald 
Suggs, who later became known 
as a Black gay activist and jour-
nalist during his postgraduate 
life in New York City. While 
Maia was a leader of on-campus 
lesbian life at weekly Yalesbian 
meetings, the household threw 
after-hours parties that brought 
campus gays together on more 
relaxed terms.

Rather than being exclu-
sively lesbian, the household 
“invited everyone cool, which 
was cool with us,” explains 
Maia. Though 
the 
parties 
skewed gay, they allowed proud 
lesbians and straight lefties 
alike to dance to Boy George, 
Annie Lennox, and Prince, who 
were bringing queer aesthetics 
and sensibilities into popu-
lar music for what felt like the 
first time.

Listening to Maia sketch 
out her gay world, I was 
enthralled by the vibrancy of 
her social and political life. I 
also started to wonder how my life would 
have unfolded on the gay campus of 1982. 
I certainly wouldn’t have identified as 
nonbinary the way I do today—Maia 
confirms that while “androgyny” was the 
word of the day, and something many 
campus lesbians pursued, the language 
just “wasn’t available” to identify outside 
of womanhood.

Romantic and sexual relationships 
flourished—most queer women that 
Maia knew had both casual encounters 
and long-term girlfriends. On nights out 
at several gay off-campus apartments, 
open lesbians made out with the girls 
who had attended weekday Yalesbians 
meetings as “straight allies.” The mood 
was both celebratory and anxious, and 
increased visibility came at a cost. In 
1982, Yale’s LGBT Co-operative held the 
first Gay and Lesbian Awareness Days 
(GLAD), which culminated in an on-cam-
pus dance for which the administration 
gave permission. Maia remembers a 
group of football players had overheard 
that a girl they knew, someone they cer-
tainly didn’t think was gay, was attending. 
One athlete stood outside the door, try-
ing to intimidate her, and Maia “just 
hauled off and punched him in the eye.” 
She was proud to see him later that week 
with a black eye. The gays danced on.

Hostility continued to accumulate. 
In February 1984, the senior class threw 
a party at what is now Grace Hopper 
College, where the 17-year-old daughter 
of a Yale faculty member was kicked in 
the stomach by male students. The men 
taunted the girl, and the female friends 
she was dancing with, with chants of 
“Lesbos!” Susan Arkun, a Yale College 
student who was verbally harassed at 
the event, explained to the News that 
in social spaces she was often met with 
derision owing to her short dyed hair. “I 
wish those lesbians would leave so we 
could tap the keg,” she overheard once. 
Strangers shouted “Yalesbians!” at her 
on the street.

Maia freely accepts that in the face 
of these explosions of homophobia, some 
of her football player-punching bravado 
was bluster. She wishes the gay com-
munities on campus had the language 
at the time to articulate “how fright-
ened we actually were.” At 18 or 19, she 
explains, “maybe you access anger more 
easily than you access your own vulner-
ability.” Parties are a good way to deflect 
from the fact that it is often difficult to 
be young and gay and alive.


Y
alesbians faded, let down by a 
quick student body turnover and 
a lack of institutional memory. The 
group’s archives were smaller and more 
informal than a lot of other, larger, offi-
cial student orgs. Leadership changed 
hands, over and over again. By the time 
the third millennium rolled around, 
Yalesbians’ weekly, Wednesday meetings 
had stopped. I combed through campus 
newspaper archives to find some con-
crete reason for the organization’s dis-
solution, but came up with nothing. The 
last mention of the group I could find 
came in 1995, when the News advertised 
a regular Yalesbians meeting as part of 
“Sexuality Awareness Week.”

But lesbians, specifically, still wanted 
a space to come together. Sappho, named 
after the Greek poetess who gave us 
the word “lesbian,” was founded by an 
unknown group of queer women in 
2004. Unlike Yalesbians, who were a 
registered student organization receiv-
ing Yale funding, Sappho began—and 
remained—an informal social collective. 
Sticking true to Yalesbians’ 1979 decla-
ration to “never again turn to the YDN” 
to publicize their work, Sappho in 2010 
started to reach other on-campus queers 
in the most 2010 of ways: a blog.

On sapphoyale.blogspot.com, “queer, 
questioning, lesbian, bi, trans, and 
everything else in between women at 
Yale’’ could post, anonymously or not, 
about anything that came to mind. 
In the style of full-on early 2010s 
hyper-enthusiasm, they gushed about 
their sexual awakenings (“I LOVE 
TOPPING . . . Eeeeee.”), brought gay 
political news to the blogosphere (“Yay, 
queer people can now visit thier [sic] 
partners in hospitals just like married 
people!”), and rejoiced over queer pop 
culture (“how awesome was glee in so 
many ways? way awesome.”) The blog 
encompassed the complexities of les-
bian social life in the emerging digital 
age. On the one hand, queer women on 
campus could now stay connected to 
each other at all times, even in physi-
cal isolation. Dozens of posts popped 
up over summer and winter breaks, 
lamenting homophobic households and 
celebrating hometown pride parades. 
But in some ways, with the arrival of 
the internet, lesbian spaces were also in 
the process of becoming more isolated, 
more dispersed. Websites like Tumblr, 
which flourished in the early 2010s, 
allowed younger queer people to “come 
out” under digital aliases, while remain-
ing closeted in their day-to-day life, not 
taking the risk (and thrill) of venturing 
into physical queer spaces. Lesbians 
could raise their consciousness from the 
comfort of their home, without looking 
another queer in the eye.

The blog only lasted a year before 
being replaced in September 2012 by a 
series of zines called “Hey Girl!” Perhaps 
Sappho’s new leadership, tiring of the 
dispersed nature of the digital, wanted 
to throw it back to the heyday of ana-
log feminism. The DIY-style zines, fre-
quently thrown together over the span 
of one night, were a deliberate aesthetic 
homage to the anarchist, punk, and Riot 
Grrrl subcultures of the nineteen-eight-
ies and nineteen-nineties. They set out


layout design by kevin chen
Above: Maia Ettinger and her off-campus “household.” 
Below: a Yalesbians party invitation.
Photos courtesy of Maia Ettinger



**Title: Yalesbians, Sappho, and the Lesbian Life of the Party**
**Author: Sasha Carney**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
13
TheNewJournal        March 2023
an ambitious agenda for what Sappho 
would bring to the “queer ladies’’ of Yale, 
including guerilla art, skillshares, protests, 
“parties and pregaymes,” and—suppos-
edly—naked parties in the Yale Women’s 
Center. The zine was earnest, funny, and 
pro-Beyonce. One full-page spread of 
collages and hand-scrawled slogans 
encouraged readers to “queer up Yale ‘’ in 
any way they knew how. “GET OUT 
THERE! YOU DO YOU!” the caption 
blared over a drawing of a Venus symbol, 
a printed-out picture of the Hulk, and 
an invitation for lesbians everywhere to 
“make friends’’ and “make enemies.”

The zine folded after four issues. The 
idea of “parties and pregaymes” stuck 
around. Though it’s incredibly difficult 
to track down the “official” emergence of 
Sappho parties, in 2014, a Silliman student 
named Zoe heard, through Facebook 
groups and word of mouth, about a 
semesterly party for sapphic people only. 
The series of Sappho parties, which was 
funded entirely by the friend groups of 
juniors who put them on, was “passed 
down” each year to a new friend group 
of queer women deemed sufficiently cool, 
with enough off-campus space to host. 
“Everyone seemed to know about it, but I 
can’t tell you how,” she recalls.

This sense of uncertainty and anonym-
ity, which persisted throughout Sappho’s 
existence, is a kind of double-edged sword: 
these social spaces are at once uncon-
strained by official channels and institu-
tional funding, and difficult to historicize 
or pin down. Of course, “everyone” can 
also never entirely encompass “everyone.” 
Though Sappho invitations were entirely 
open, most knowledge of the parties, like 
in Maia’s day, boiled down to who already 
knew who.

As sophomores, Zoe and her room-
mates were selected to throw next year’s 
Sappho parties, but with few guidelines 
and no funding by the women who came 
before them. With money they had saved 
from campus jobs and donations from 
attendees, they put on a couple success-
ful events where “people were definitely 
there to hook up.” Zoe recalled these 
parties as “more mixed-race and more 
genderfruity” than most other campus 
parties, and found herself encounter-
ing butchness as a possibility she could 
pursue for the first time. Attendees felt 
at ease picking up women in ways they 
didn’t elsewhere on campus—ways Anna 
didn’t at the frat party her first year. The 
next year, Zoe and her friends passed the 
baton to another Silliman friend group. 
She confesses that she has no idea if they 
carried it on.

They did, although some people 
grew frustrated with the slowness of the 
parties’ semesterly format. “I think we 
need more parties to cruise at and have 
sex at,” recent Yale alumnus Mia Arias 
Tsang told me bluntly. She spent most of 
her time on campus surrounded by other 
queer women of color through her work 
at Broad Recognition, a campus feminist 
publication. Though she was already in 
those environments in her day-to-day 
life, she was looking for more explicitly 
sexual and romantic lesbian spaces after-
hours. She remembers her disappoint-
ment at missing a Sappho party in 2017 
where attendees reportedly did body 
shots. Anna both expressed to me that 
although she wasn’t seeking sex at the 
parties, being in multiple monogamous 
relationships through her time at Yale, 
she enjoyed their distinct atmosphere, at 
once both electric and celebratory.


When Mia did attend the fall 2019 
Sappho party in the rugby basement, she 
felt a huge “pressure to fuck” owing to 
how infrequent and unpredictable the


--- Page 14 ---

14
**Title: Dash of Fancy**
**Author: Amal Biskin**
**Page number(s): 14**

At seventeen, I devoted myself to the pursuit 
of eroticism. Evolutionary imperatives 
necessitated a baseline sexual appetite, but I 
was more concerned with Sontag. “In place 
of a hermeneutics we need an erotics of art,” 
Sontag contends in her 1966 essay “Against 
Interpretation.” In a miasma of theory, she 
believed that art had lost its fervor. Now, with 
heads cocked to analysis, audiences set out on 
interpretive undertakings at the first twitch of 
a curtain rising, at the edge of a frame, in the 
didactic aisles of a title page. We no longer laid 
ourselves bare and let art wash over us. We no 
longer felt the acerbic burn when its saline waves 
seeped into wounds we had forgotten.

I was no different. An erudite floozy, I had taken 
to reading the wall text before looking at the 
painting. No longer! With “Against Interpretation” 
in tow, I set out to let art stir me. Orgasm was 
the endgame. But like an addict whose senses 
were dulled by their fix, I could no longer get off 
on art alone. I craved a hit of theory, chased the 
electric jolt of recognizing classical allusion. I 
was Paolo and Francesca in Dante’s fifth Canto, 
tossed about by blustering waves of desire. Fuck, 
that was good. 

Music was my first exception. If I sat very still in 
the dark and turned my headphones as loud as 
they would go, I could start to detect the buds 
of excitement. Alone in my room, I had no one 
to tell that Berlioz was quoting the dies irae in 
the fifth movement of “Symphonie Fantastique.” 
Instead, I let the crashing gongs throb unanalyzed. 
I trembled with emotion. I was redeemed.


**Title: Grocery Store**

I learned desire in the aisles of the grocery store. 
It was a world of pleasure, of throbbing 
stimulation and tantalizing unknowns. So many 
things were off-limits: cheese puffs beckoning 
me with their curved fingers; cookies in perfect 
rows, glistening through plastic windows; bottles 
of soda, jewel-like in their translucent vibrancy 
(surely the liquid itself was not that bright green, 
I reasoned, and what did a mountain taste like?); 
rows and rows of cereal boxes like a city on the 
cutting edge of nightlife, fractal-like in their 
varieties—this one chocolate and that fruity, this 
with raisins and that oat clusters, this frosted 
and that with marshmallows and another frosted 
and with marshmallows! The hope that these 
delicacies could one day be mine helped me cope 
with the profound emptiness I felt knowing that 
there existed flavors and textures beyond my 
wildest dreams. With the barebone constituents 
of my existing culinary experience, I cobbled 
together succulent fantasies to tide me over until 
I could satiate myself for real. I imagined frosting 
so creamy it felt like the softest part of a child’s 
palm, chocolate so expertly balanced between 
sweet and bitter it could remain upright on a 
tightrope, gelatinous candies that my teeth would 
sink into like they were slipping into sleep.



--- Page 15 ---

15

parties were. She felt that these oppor-
tunities were somewhat scarce, and felt 
anxious about not taking full advan-
tage of them. “I went with friends who 
all peeled off and found other people 
to have sex with,” she recalls. She adds 
that she was pleasantly surprised by the 
amount of lesbians of color there, but “at 
any Yale space,” she acknowledges, “as a 
queer [woman of color], if you’re trying 
to get laid, it’s going to be hard.” Still, 
she came away grateful for the experi-
ence, and excited for next semester. But 
before the next party, Covid hit.

Today: Everyone is gay
A
s of 2023, “lesbian life” or “queer 
women’s life” spills out into much of 
everyday life at Yale. With outness not 
only encouraged at Yale, but essentially 
the default in vast swathes of the campus’ 
academic and social world, many lesbi-
ans don’t have to look for “lesbian groups” 
or “gay issues” to find the comfort and 
community they seek. “It felt like my life 
was inherently a queer space in a way I 
never experienced before college,” Mia 
explains. Many other queer students 
echoed this sentiment, feeling that while 
they variously enjoyed Sappho parties, 
they didn’t feel the need to attend them 
to find sex, love, or friendship.

“I don’t think I hang out with any-
one who isn’t queer,” Ava Dadvand, 
an Iranian trans lesbian, decided after 
thinking for a moment. She finds most 
of her queer friends through Beyond 
the Binary, an official on-campus trans 
and nonbinary social group, as well as 
through social media, friends of her 
partner, and other mutual friends. A lot 
of it is incidental. On an increasingly 
“out” campus, you can meet other lesbi-
ans and sapphic people with ease from a 
class seminar to the line for lunch. Add 
in the queer-centric social spaces of Yale 
Twitter, as well as the opportunities for 
casual sex and romance from dating apps, 
and you’re giving Sappho-specific bulle-
tins like Sappho.blog and Hey Girl! a run 
for their money.

The definition of a “lesbian social 
space” is also increasingly changing as 
the idea of “lesbianism” does. While the 
Sappho of the early 2010s nominally 
included trans women in the labeling of 
their organization (if not in the content 
of their blogs and zines), the language of 
the world of “lesbians” has become more 
complex and gender-diverse as medical 
and social transition become increasingly 
possible. Last semester, I had top sur-
gery through Yale Health. Newly healed 
this semester, I feel more comfortable at 
parties and excited to dance, but more 
anxious in things closer to “women’s 
spaces.” I jump back at the thought of 
throwing someone off in a bathroom 
or changing room. I believe “lesbian 
spaces’’ can, and should, include people 
like me, but I don’t always feel at ease 
in those dominated by cisgender, gen-
der-conforming women. The concept 
of a “lesbian-only” or “woman-only” 
space can sometimes be code for “cis 
women-only,” something Maia worried 
about when I described Sappho parties 
to her over the phone. “The parties aren’t 
trans-exclusionary, right?” she asked 
sharply. I assured her that they weren’t, 
at least not in their advertising. But it’s 
certainly possible that some trans people 
stay away.

Ava is perfectly happy finding a 
home in what she calls “dyke spaces,” 
but also notes that she’s found it a lot 
easier since she had bottom surgery last 
summer. She concedes that this sounds 
“bioessentialist” of her, overly focused 
on genitalia as the site of sexuality. 
But, after all, she explains, our society 
is bioessentialist. “It’s drilled into our 
heads, for better or for worse, that lesbi-
anism is associated with pussy.”

While campus “lesbian life” has 
become more trans, Sappho parties have 
arguably become less so. After the onset 
of Covid-19, what events have popped 
up feel distinctly lackluster. Lily, a senior 
who started attending Sappho events 
in 2022, describes the two parties they 
stopped by simply as “boring.” The music 
was soft, the drinks were sparse, and the 
energy was conversational—more of an 
“affinity group” than a party space. After 
recently beginning to present more mas-
culine, they were acutely aware that the 
people they met at a fall 2022 Sappho 
party were “almost all femmes, and pretty 
white too.” They headed home early.

Attendance at these last two parties 
was small, something exemplified by the 
relative lack of undergraduate knowl-
edge about Sappho. When I asked her 
about Sappho parties, Ava, who arrived 
at Yale in 2021, confessed “I don’t know 
what that is.” The same things that make 
Sappho exciting, flexible, and cool—the 
lack of Yale institutional ties or funding, 
the informality of leadership, word of 
mouth—also make the whole operation 
hard to maintain. By the time someone 
intending to throw a Sappho party has 
the means to bring their idea to fruition, 
they may have already graduated. Not to 
mention, there’s no unified vision behind 
what makes a Sappho party “good.”

I, for one, don’t want the Sappho 
party tradition to die out. Lesbian night-
life on campus—the kinds experienced 
by Ettinger in the nineteen-eighties, or 
what Anna reveled in as a first-year—is 
facing a number of challenges. The dif-
ficulties of resurrecting marginalized 
party spaces after Covid, the hesitancy 
around where exactly to define “lesbi-
anism” or “queer womanhood,” and the 
uncertainty around whether exclusively 
gay social life even needs its own space 
on such a strongly queer campus, all 
seem to lead people to pause before they 
send out an invitation to a naked party 
in the Women’s Center. I say, there’s 
value in taking the extra, deliberate 
effort: to carve out a semesterly space, 
to reach queer women beyond your 
social group, to confront the contradic-
tions of a lesbian night out. Let the gays 
dance on. ∎
Sasha Carney is a senior in 
Silliman College.

The definition 
of a “lesbian 
social space” is 
also increasingly 
changing as 
the idea of 
“lesbianism” does.



**Title: Counter Memories**
**Author: Jabez Choi**
**Page number(s): 16-19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Is gay nightlife getting quieter? 
A writer explores the histories 
inside New Haven gay bars.


I
t is a building that looks like it is hiding. 
Some windows are blurred with frosted glass. 
Others are boarded up. The walls are painted 
an aged white, peeling at some parts. On the 
side of the building, a small, orange sign names 
the building: Partners. Underneath a piercing street-
light, just next to the mural of a smiling Anne Frank, 
a man stands by himself, a lit cigarette in his mouth. 
Nothing on the outside reveals that the building is 
one of the oldest gay bars in New Haven.

On Fridays and Saturdays, Partners opens its 
second floor to reveal a glittery night club. There, 
mirrors cover the walls and a spinning light shines 
on young, dancing bodies in the dark. Those are the 
endless nights—loud and hazy and crowded. On 
Sundays, the second floor closes, leaving the ground 
floor open for karaoke night. It draws in a smaller 
crowd. Now, it’s Monday night in February and the 
bar is barren—except for Paul, me, and two drunk 
men. The two men had waited outside the bar’s front 
door before he’d arrived. Now, they sit at the counter 
with me, babbling over each other. They interrupt 
Paul while he talks to me, asking for another drink. 
Paul leaves to fill up their shot glasses.
“I was telling him how annoying it is when peo-
ple showed up to the bar at seven fifty-nine, knock-
ing on the door,” Paul says, nodding towards me.

They cackle in response.
“If your ass is open at eight, you better be open,” 
one of them shoots back. 

Paul half-smiles. Then, he turns to me and rolls 
his eyes. 

I like Paul for two reasons. The first is that he 
speaks to me like a friend. By nature, I am an anxious 
person. Despite this, we quickly chat like two old gos-
sips. The second is that he is seasoned. He moved to 
New Haven from Massachusetts over a decade ago 
to work at Partners. This is his eleventh year behind 
the counter, and it shows—he is fluid, quick with his 
words. He’s seen more than me. 
“So what was the gay bar scene like when you 
first started working here?” I ask.
“I want to say it was more gay men. Today, we 
have everything. Like, sometimes I’m working and 
I’m like, when did this become a straight bar?” he says, 
pouring another drink for one of the men. “There’s a 
lot of different types of people that come in and out 
of here all the time.”

As he talks, these broad terms—“everything,” 
“different types of people”—become clearer. Paul 
tells me that Partners defines itself as a gay bar, a 
gathering ground that has historically served queer 
people in New Haven. However, the events that the 
bar hosts—karaoke open-mics, bingo nights, goth 
dances, drag shows—now draw in straight people 
alongside the typically queer crowd. It isn’t abnor-
mal to run into straight couples on a Friday night. 
Partners’ clientele widened over the years; the bar 
became a space for a broader, open-minded commu-
nity, rather than a specific queer one. Though these 
capacities still have queer communities in mind, the 
formerly rigid boundaries have blurred.
“So the culture of the clientele has changed?” I ask.
“Yeah, absolutely. I mean, it doesn’t ruin the vibes 
or anything. It’s just that times are changing. Gay 
bars, straight bars, you’re going anywhere you want,” 
Paul says. “No one’s really afraid to come here any-
more. I mean, ten years ago, the straight men, they’d 
be like, ‘Oh, my God, I’m not going to a gay bar.’”

I understand. The culture change Paul talks about 
is something that has manifested in my generation, 
my lifetime. I was twelve when the Supreme Court 
recognized gay marriage as a legal right. I watched 
characters on television proclaim their gayness to 
accepting arms. I had openly queer friends who I 
fought and reconciled and grew up with. Whenever 
I hated myself, I could look at my queer friends and 
recognize that they were lovable. And through my 
love for them, I knew I was lovable too. In an odd 
way, I recognize that my ability to do this is evidence 
of an undeniable societal shift. Could this shift change 
landscapes of queer gathering? What happens to a space 
when the stigmatization that used to define it is dissolv-
ing? I think these questions as Paul talks.
“Then, does this mean gay bars are not needed 
anymore?” I ask. “As opposed to, say, any old bar?”
“Well, we still need them. I mean, Partners? It’s 
always going to be Partners. Everyone’s going to be 
coming here,” he says, assuredly. “It’s just now, it’s 
like a space for almost everybody.”
“So what does Partners mean to you?” I ask.
“A paycheck,” Paul jokes. The two drunk men 
next to me laugh.


meet Bernard at Partners, two hours before 
opening. I have never seen the bar so empty and 
quiet. The main room is dark except for two spot-
lights that shine overhead. We sit in adjacent seats 
by the counter. I begin to fidget. When I look at 
Bernard’s hands, I notice that he, too, is fidgeting. 
Bernard mentions growing up in a conservative 
family in a small town in Mexico. In 1993, Bernard 
immigrated to the United States. He was in his 
twenties and exploring New Haven gay bars. At 
Partners, he met Dave Klemens. Today, the two 
are married and run the bar together as co-own-
ers. According to Bernard, not much has changed 
over the years in how they run their business. They 
have their cheap drinks, their drag shows, their busy 
weekends and softer weekends. 
“The community has been evolving but we don’t 
exactly change with them, you know,” he says. “You 
can do everything on phones. But I mean, per-
son-to-person is better. I don’t know how to explain 
it.” He pauses. Then—“That was the model the previ-
ous owners founded. And Dave kept doing the same 
thing. If it’s not broken, why fix it?”

Gay bars depend on the “person-to-person” 
model that Bernard emphasizes in a way that dif-
fers from any other bar. Usually, people go to bars to 
meet other people over a drink, to form a commu-
nity, to relax and let loose. But the notion of a gay 
man letting loose is a radical act in this context. It 
means sexual identities could finally be actualized. It 
means camaraderie in a society that has condemned 




**Title: Counter Memories**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Could this shift change 
landscapes of queer gathering? 
What happens to a space when 
the stigmatization that used to 
define it is dissolving?
The unassuming exterior of Partners and its accompanying mural of Anne Frank.


queer lives. These often anonymous communities 
were essential to an entire generation of gay men; 
these bars were one of the few places they could 
gather. Outside the normative hours, into the night-
time, one could experience their first sexual encoun-
ters with other queer people in the liminality of the 
gay bar. With little barriers to self-expression, the 
gay bar becomes a place of genesis. Unique queer 
aesthetics were born: leather and kink sub-cultures, 
drag personas, cruising codes, creations a heteronor-
mative society might find abnormal. Bernard puts it 
in a simpler way.
“For me, it was just liberating to come to a gay bar. 
I knew I was gay, always. But it wasn’t talked about 
until I came here.” he says. “You see your gay friends. 
It’s gay community so it’s fun, you know?”
Bernard tells me that Partners was founded in 
1974 by Jack Garity and two friends, who ran the 
bar for fifteen years before handing it off to Dave. 
Almost fifty years later, the bar is still open. It had 
survived the peak of the epidemic and the twen-
ty-first century decline of gay bars nationwide. In 
March 2020, the bar closed due to the coronavirus 
pandemic. The face-to-face intimacy that the bar 
provided for the queer community momentarily dis-
appeared. Nevertheless, once Bernard and Dave got 
state approval, they opened their doors again in May 
2021. People flooded the bar and lined up out the 
door, clamoring to get inside and dance. In a time 
in which businesses were closing left and right, the 
community showed out for Partners.
Perhaps Partners is one of the lucky ones. The 
years between 2007 and 2019 saw a closure of 37 per-
cent of gay bars across the United States and the 
pandemic ensured the closure of even more. More 
dire, around 200 lesbian bars have closed since 
the 1980s, leaving twenty-seven lesbian bars in the 
nation today according to the Lesbian Bar Project. 
There have been numerous theories to explain this 
sudden uptick in closures. Some blame dating 
apps like Grindr or Scruff that have replaced the 
gay bar’s person-to-person model. Some blame an 
exhaustion among gay consumers, resulting from 
the extensive marketing of spaces and products as 
“gay” or “queer.” But others seem to hint toward a 
changing of attitudes within the LGBTQ+ commu-
nity. Namely, that with a new generation marked by 
queer acceptance, the need for specific gay spaces as 
safe spaces is diminishing. In the context of the gay 
bar, acceptance almost seems like a contradictory 
phenomenon.
“There will always be the same need for gay peo-
ple: love and acceptance,” Bernard tells me. “And 
we’ll provide that here. Because you can make a fool 
of yourself here. You can go to another place that 
accepts gay people but you need a safe space. You 
know that you are different and you always need a 
place to see your friends.”
He holds his hands up: “This is it.”
In my head, I repeat love and acceptance. I decide 
to take him for his word.


n between interviews, I stop by the New 
Haven Pride Center. Inside, I meet Juancarlos 
Soto, the interim director of the center. When I enter, 
he has just gotten off the phone. After we talk, we 
find out both of our fathers are pastors. I laugh at 
this coincidence. We sit in a room covered with rain-
bow flags. On the wall beside us, there is a mural of 
men dancing. Queer history books line the book-
shelf next to him. The room is warmly lit by a lamp, 
illuminating his face. We’re sitting in a chapel of 
queer paraphernalia.
“I think sometimes we can create harm when we 
call something a safe space, because the reality is vio-
lence still happens, even within our own community. 
I still interact with queer spaces that don’t feel safe,” 
Juancarlos says. “Unfortunately, the same things we 
were fighting fifty years ago are still the same things 
we’re fighting today. In terms of how anti-trans folks 
are describing trans individuals and non-binary folks, 
it’s really the same playbook that we were using in 
the eighties. It’s just we swapped around terms.” 
When Juancarlos describes “safe” queer spaces, 
such as the Pride Center or New Haven’s gay bars, 
he likes to call them “brave” spaces. It is an acknowl-
edgement—though aspects of safety have arrived 
with acceptance, in Juancarlos’ eyes, acceptance has 
not fully arrived. And if safety cannot truly be guar-
anteed, why offer a false promise? Any queer space 
demands the bravery of queer people to exist.
It feels strange to assume acceptance has arrived. 
Less than halfway through 2023, the United States 
has seen more anti-LGBTQ bills than the past five 
years combined. These bills have included a wide 
range of attacks, from bans on gender-affirming care 
and drag shows to the discontinuation of LGBTQ 
education in schools. Last year saw the murders of at 
least thirty-eight transgender people in the United 
States according to the Human Rights Campaign. 
And memories of Colorado Springs, where a 2022 
shooting at a gay club left five dead and seventeen 
wounded, are still fresh on the minds of many gay 
club-goers. Yet, though queer violence continues to 
persist, Juancarlos and I both agree that the queer 
community has changed dramatically.
“The ways the HIV epidemic and guilt have 
marked older generations compared to how its 
marked younger generations are very different, right? 
Because of how much more we know around preven-
tion and how fewer deaths we have now in compar-
ison, when you talk to younger generations, the way 
you talk about the virus is almost flippant in younger 
generations compared to older adults,” Juancarlos 
says. “I think all of those things create differences in 
their experiences and the issues that they face. But 
I think if we pause and talk to each other, we may 
realize that they’re more like the same things that we 
were fighting.”
He’s right. Scrolling through TikTok, I come 
across influencers like Zach Willmore, who has 
been vlogging his life since his positive HIV test 
results. The videos are mundane. In some, he pow-
ders his face with makeup while talking about his 
medication treatment. In others, he shops for shoes. 
It feels strange to assume 
acceptance has arrived. Less 
than halfway through 2023, 
the United States has seen 
more anti-LGBTQ bills than 
the past five years combined.

The end result, even on an interface like TikTok, is 
revolutionary—HIV is no longer seen as a death sen-
tence. But with this cultural shift, a strange dilemma 
arises: is normalization synonymous with forgetting? 
Juancarlos celebrates these generational changes. At 
the same time, he still seems concerned, unconvinced. 
We are still fighting the same things.
“The movement sort of went dormant and silent. 
We were like, ‘Oh, we have gay marriage. We have 
a president on TV talking about his evolution on 
same sex marriage. We don’t have to worry about 
high risk infections of HIV.’ Mind you. Black and 
brown, specifically, black trans women, were getting 
murdered at incredible rates,” he says. “Honestly, the 
LGBTQ community sort of got complacent. It feels 
like we are going backwards these days.”


street over from Partners, another gay bar 
called 168 York Street Cafe hides in the basement 
of a brick townhouse. Its windows are shy, peeking 
just barely above ground level. From the outside, I 
don’t notice too much. Maybe the movement of a 
dim shadow. And a faint Whitney Houston melody. 
When the night falls, loneliness calls . . .
When I enter, I hear the disco of the seven-
ties, the divas of the eighties—Whitney Houston, 
Cyndi Lauper, Donna Summer. It’s a far cry from 
the glitzy dance-pop that had reverberated from 
Partners’ speakers. Nobody here dances. There is no 
need to. 168 York is a pub, not a nightclub. Instead of 
movement, there is the warm clamor of voices. The 
handful of patrons all seem familiar with one another, 
sitting on the long counter, talking over each other, 
laughing. Once in a while, a man walks in and the 
noise crescendos. People look up, nod, hug, say hello, 
then goodbye. Amidst the noise, Joey Goodwin, the 
owner of the bar, sits at the very end of the counter, a 
seat usually reserved for him. I sit next to him.
“Look at this handsome gentleman interviewing 
me,” Joey tells a leaving friend. “Oh, who am I kid-
ding. You look old enough to be my grandson.”
I laugh. It’s true. I am the youngest in the 
room by many years. As I sit next to Joey, I real-
ize I have never in my life been surrounded by 
older gay men. Age, I realize, is a strange privilege. 
For an older generation of gay men, lives seemed 
quickly lived. In a way, escaping youth was an odd 
accomplishment. Here, all these men sit laughing, 
in a future they have created for themselves. The 
wooden walls—a worn brown—testify to the bar’s 
age. The floor’s faded planks creak at certain steps. 
Joey used to sand the floors when he needed to 
deep clean. Now, after so many years, he can’t sand 
them down anymore without their nails breaking 
loose. Between the previous owners and Joey, 168 
York has existed in some form for about sixty years, 
making it Partners’ senior. The bar, like Partners, 
has stood through the heights of the AIDS epidemic 
and COVID-19, as well as a fire that burned down its 
old location in 1978. 
Joey talks about the levels of caution that used to 
exist for gay bars. He tells me bar-goers would park 
streets away from the bar and wear reflective jack-
ets to obscure their identities as they entered and left. 
Anonymity was synonymous with nightlife. 
“You had nicknames when you were going out, 
you know. People said ‘Call me Charlie, call me this, 
call me that,’ So everyone had names until you’re 
going back to the pub again and all of a sudden 
Charlie didn’t show up,” he says. “Then you found 
out that Charlie wasn’t his real name. And then you 
found out that if you didn’t see him in six months, 
you were sure he passed away.”
He quickly says goodbye to a departing friend. 
Turning back, he takes a sip of his drink. 
“People who were different came to a gay bar 
because there was no place else to go. Gay bars were 
shelters for them,” Joey says. “You wouldn’t see too 
many straight people in the gay bar back then. They 
were homophobic. We lived undergroundpurposely.”
Joey sees more straight people entering 168 York 
now. This isn’t anything that bothers him. In fact, he 
finds it humorous. He describes how a straight man 
will walk in, bypass the rainbow flags hanging above 
the drinks, the trans pride colors on the refrigerator, 
the drag show advertisements on the walls, and sit 
down for a drink. As more of the regulars walk in, 
the man will slowly realize where he is. Joey describes 
the man’s sudden nervousness when he asks the bar-
tender if 168 York is a gay bar.
“I love it. It just entertains me the most. I’m say-
ing to myself ‘God, I hope so-and-so doesn’t come 
in. They’re going to give the whole thing away!’” Joey 
says, laughing.
“Do you think the gay bar should in some way be 
gate-kept?” I ask. “As in just for gay people?”
Joey shakes his head. “No. I always wanted to be 
an educator. Being a bar owner, you have a responsi-
bility to say this is unacceptable, this is acceptable.” he 
says. “I thought the only way that I would ever fulfill 
that dream was to have people come in here and let 
them know that we’re not as bad as they think.”
How Joey sees it, gay bars are used as a kind of 
guided discovery. By having straight people confront 
queerness in the gay bar, the fear regarding sexual-
ity becomes obscured and ideally, leads to an obvious 
reckoning—that queer people, at their foundation, 
are human too. In the gay bar, the straight man 
becomes othered by his straightness. Sexuality is not 
defined by its relation to heterosexuality. It is defined, 
for once, in the context of queerness.
“Are people trying to start new gay bars these 
days?” I ask.
“I don’t see anyone waiting in line to open up a 
gay bar, that I can tell you,” he says. “They don’t want 
any more duplications of a gay bar anymore, because 
everything’s so diluted now. Most people don’t have 
to go to a gay bar anymore.”
“Do you think at one point . . . ” I start to say.
He interrupts me, already knowing my question. 
“Your question is, okay. There was a need for a gay bar 
but because of cultural changes, you’re thinking how 
long I can stay in the game for.”
I nod. He looks back at me knowingly. In the 
background, there is an eruption of laughter. Someone, 



**Title: Counter Memories**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22, 23, 24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
March 2023
In the gay bar, the straight man 
becomes othered by his straightness. 
Sexuality is not defined by its relation 
to heterosexuality. It is defined, for 
once, in the context of queerness.
Outside (left) and inside (above) 168 York Street.
Counter Memories


another friend of the bar, must have walked in.
“I question myself every day about that,” Joey says. 
“More and more people keep accepting the fact that 
there are different people. And because of that, our 
customer base is dropping. Now people are accepted. 
They can go anywhere they want right now, and have 
a really good time.” 
As he says this, I look at his face. His voice does 
not change, nor does he look upset. 
“Why do you think the bar has lasted as long as it 
has?” I ask. “Through so much?”
“We are resilient,” he says. His voice quiets. “But 
why? That’s the question.”
I pause when he says this. Joey had asked a 
question that I often think of: Why do we have to be 
resilient? Put another way, why does it cost so much 
strength to live?

T
he next day, 168 York is empty. The noise that 
filled the bar the night before has slipped out the 
window. Behind the counter, a bartender shuffles a 
set of cards, then lines them facedown on the counter. 
He plays by himself. I do not bother him.
In the next room, I meet Seth Evans. He is just 
about to have his weekly dinner here at 168 York. 
He sits under a dim spotlight, sipping on a golden 
drink. It glows in the light. Seth was the last editor-
in-chief of a Hartford-based LGBTQ+ publication 
called Metroline. The magazine intimately captured 
queer New England life from the AIDS epidemic to 
just after Connecticut’s legalization of gay marriage 
in 2008. Between their coverage of the epidemic 
and interviews with activists, the magazine adver-
tised the Connecticut bar scene. Seth knows many 
of the bars closely, especially 168 York, where he 
would write many of his own articles for Metroline 
at the counter.
“What does the gay bar mean to you?” I ask.
“The bar scene means to me what it means to the 
first person that walked into the oldest gay bar in 
Connecticut,” Seth says. “Sanctuary.”
“Sanctuary,” I repeat back to him.
“The normal kid grows up in a home environ-
ment where they’re seeing Mom and Dad, and all 
the normal heterosexual way things are supposed to 
be. Where does that kid get guidance?” Seth said. “If 
you don’t come out to the clubs and allow yourself to 
be yourself, you’ll never know who you are.”
This form of sanctuary is well-encapsulated in 
the pages of Metroline. Near the beginning of most 
issues, there are pictures of New Haven gay bars at 
their prime. A camera’s flash reveals wide smiles, 
sparkling drinks, bare skin. The dark rooms are 
filled to the brim with bodies. Queer joy is abun-
dant. Underneath, captions read their locations: 
Chapel Pub Cafe, Choices, Maxie’s, Saloon—all older 
New Haven bars. Large bar advertisements adorn 
almost every other page. The back of each Metroline 
edition reveals a list of clubs for each Connecticut 
city, all of which have advertised in the issue numer-
ous times. The sentiment was clear—the clubs were 
open and alive. 
“We started doing the magazine spreads of all 
the photos,” Seth says. “People would be very, very 
interested. They would go ‘Oh, I might be in it’ and 
they all started grabbing the magazine to look at it.”
As the years passed, though, Metroline began 
to falter. As more advertisers began using online 
mailing lists and other digital methods, Metroline, 
alongside other advertisement-reliant publications, 
took a hit. By the early 2010s, the magazine had 
become defunct. 
“The internet started coming in. And that started 
killing the magazine,” Seth says. “The bar owners 
more and more started saying, ‘Why should I pay an 
ad in your magazine?’ It just became financially not 
feasible to keep the magazine in print because the 
bars weren’t paying.”
Over the years, the bars listed on Metroline’s 
backpages started cycling out, too. Seth says him-
self that the lifespan of a bar at the time was at most 
seven years. In New Haven, the gay bars—Choices, 
Maxie’s, Saloon—slowly became replaced with the 
Brownstone, the Krpyt, Beach Head Cafe. And after 
a few years, those new names disappeared from the 
pages of Metroline. The addresses still exist today, but 
in their places, new businesses now stand. In some 
cases, only empty, desolate buildings remain. At a 
certain point, the only gay pubs that stood were 
Partners and 168 York.
“Will the bars continue to be a sanctuary?” I ask.
“It’s not as potent now as it was then. You’ll see 
straight couples come in and sit down and have 
drinks for a while. The acceptance, I don’t know if it’s 
a good way or a bad way, kind of diluted the popula-
tion.” he said. “You found different people coming in, 
you know, it became like foreigners in our sanctuary.”
“Acceptance,” to Seth, marked a departure from 
a point that a previous generation lived through. 
But how do we make progress while remembering 
the past?
“Do you feel that your experiences pre-acceptance 
are valued by my generation?” I ask bluntly. 
“They don’t know that they appreciate it yet,” he 
says. “Each of these generations contributed, you 
know, little bits of acceptance, little bits of acceptance, 
little bits of acceptance, it was a great wall built by 
one stone at a time.” 
In a Metroline article titled “Remembering 
Stonewall,” a contributor writes, “Our present com-
munity needs to remember the event with clar-
ity . . . The 25th anniversary of the Stonewall Riots is 
a suitable reminder to do the right thing.” Later in 
the article, the writer honors the Black, transgender 
and gender non-conforming activists who had been 
leading the queer liberation movements since the 
nineteen-sixties. In a later issue, the fear of a collec-
tive queer amnesia is spelled out in an op-ed titled: 
“WE MUST NEVER ACCEPT AIDS.” The con-
tributing writer opines to the remaining gay commu-
nity that an acceptance of AIDS would be “forgetting” 
an entire generation of “brothers” lost to the disease. 
**Counter Memories**
**Author: Jabez Choi**
**Page number(s): 25, 26, 27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
25
March 2023
stood were Partners 
and 168 York.
Three front covers and one back 
cover of the Metroline magazine.
Photos courtesy of Jabez Choi.
Counter Memories


<br/>

26
TheNewJournal
We continue to talk—about the man’s partner, 
about our own partners, our own histories. 
At that point, I stop taking notes. There is no need. 
I remember the night clearly. We had shared 
secrets and now, I can only write so much.
Partners Cafe.



27
At the same time, Metroline writers envisioned 
brighter futures. An op-ed in a 1994 issue by Larry 
Kirk titled “THE YEAR OF QUEER” reads: “It 
is through such actions that our movement will ulti-
mately prevail, that the world will be made safer for a 
new generation of gay boys and girls. If this can hap-
pen in 1994, it will indeed be the Year of the Queer, 
no matter what else may, or may not occur.” The 
magazine attempted to immortalize turbulent and 
frustrating moments. But, the pages are yellowed. 
They carry a faint scent of dust. The advertisements 
and pictures look inexplicably off-kilter, an estrange-
ment only time can inflict.
Seth’s face changes, just slightly, after he sips 
his drink.
“What about the people that aren’t here?” He 
says, his voice eases. “They have got no clue of under-
standing, all the sacrifice and all the commitment to 
equality that went down to create this, to bring it 
to fruition.”
T
he next night, I talk with Bryan. He works 
behind the counter at 168 York some nights. He 
doesn’t like the title “bartender,” though. Making 
drinks is a gig he fell into by happenstance. A few 
years ago, Bryan walked into 168 York on a whim. 
He sat by himself at a table by the windows. Across 
the room, Joey played setback with some friends. 
Bryan watched, then eventually joined. They would 
play together every week for two years. One day, a 
bartender position opened, and Joey hired Bryan 
on the spot.
“He looked to me like, you’re gonna be my new 
bartender. I said ‘No, no. I’ve never done this before,’” 
Bryan says. Then, jokingly: “It just kept happening. I 
can’t get out of it. I can’t make it stop!”
Bryan says he is at a strange age, describing 
himself as being “right in the middle.” He didn’t 
live through the AIDS epidemic like the generation 
before him. But he says he wasn’t exactly marked 
by the “acceptance” that seems to define the current 
generation. He remembers growing up with stories 
of Matthew Shepard, a gay student at the University 
of Wyoming who was killed in 1998 as a result of an 
anti-gay hate crime. He still remembers when polit-
ical parties across the spectrum all opposed gay mar-
riage. Now, he notices the stark differences. 
“I cannot just so unapologetically go to any bar I 
want to with a boy and feel comfortable kissing that 
person,” he says. “You feel comfortable kissing every-
one until you do that in the wrong place. You don’t 
understand the importance of having a safe place. 
And why gay bars are so in need of being protected 
as safe spaces.”
As he talks, I notice that remembrance for 
Bryan is significant. He takes pride in remember-
ing this past era. Certain traditions he still upholds 
with other bar-goers. Inside gay bars, Bryan calls his 
friends “Mary,” after a practice in the 80’s and 90’s of  
men calling their partners “Mary” to obscure the fact 
that they were seeing men. Inside the bar, Bryan only 
responds to feminine pronouns. Though this practice 
started off as a protection measure, Bryan reclaims it 
as a method of remembering queer culture. 
“Why do we do that? I’m using these pronouns 
in a different capacity because that’s what historically 
what we built on, from the raiding of bars,” he says. 
“Was I a part of that? No, I wasn’t a part of that. Do 
I know a little bit of that history? Do I want to keep 
some of those things alive? Absolutely.”
“This is your way of remembrance,” I say.
“Absolutely. How do we move forward from that, 
while still acknowledging and respecting by main-
taining our culture?” he says. “Are you looking at 
America? Like, where are we going right now? We’ve 
already done all this stuff and now we’re going back 
because we’ve forgotten what we’ve already done.”
When he finishes, Bryan leaves me to tend to a 
regular, a man in a checkered shirt. As he pours a 
drink for the man, he asks where the man’s partner 
is. Before he can answer, Bryan asks if they had been 
fighting again. The two laugh. Bryan introduces me 
to the man. I also ask where this man’s partner is. We 
continue to talk—about the man’s partner, about our 
own partners, our own histories. At that point, I stop 
taking notes. There is no need. I remember the night 
clearly. We had shared secrets and now, I can only 
write so much. 
I
n a corner room at Partners, I play pool with 
a stranger who is old enough to be my father. I 
don’t call him my father, but I imagine that he is to 
feign some intimacy. It is a close game, only because 
we are both bad shots. In between turns, we talk. He 
is an artist from New York, but whenever he is in 
town, he stops by Partners for a drink. In the end, he 
beats me by just one ball. I’m lucky we haven’t bet 
on anything.
“You’re supposed to be better than me,” he says, 
laughing. “I’m all old now.”
He grabs his quarters and his bag. Before he 
leaves, though, I ask if I could see his art. He spreads 
his notepads across the pool table. They are worn. 
One by one, he shows me his drawings, each a sketch 
of a previous lover. Or a friend. Or a lover of a friend. 
They are all nude. He tells me how he fell in and out 
of love with one of the naked men. And as he talks, I 
realize the man misses him. Some of these men, he 
still visits back in New York. Others have since died. 
He doesn’t mention anything more. His eyes soften 
on the pages. 
It’s karaoke night. In the background, a man 
sings “Bad Romance.” He’s impressively offkey. A 
group of people laugh. They all clink their glasses. 
I stay for a few more minutes, humming along 
to the Lady Gaga song. The man reaches the final 
chorus, and people begin clapping. I leave soon 
after. Walking down Crown Street, I shiver. It has 
suddenly become cold. ∎
Jabez Choi is a sophomore in Trumbull College 
and an Asociate Editor of The New Journal.



**Title: Drawing it Out**
**Author: Hannah Szabó**
**Page number(s): 29-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
n carefully-labeled boxes 
in her study, my mother preserves 
my childhood drawings, school-
work, and journals. Early attempts at 
academic writing sit inside the Hannah: 
2015-2016 bin (“You may just think of 
Susan B. Anthony as the woman on 
the silver dollar coin, but she was much 
more than that”). Hannah: 2013 holds a 
hand-drawn comic book based on the 
Clue board game. The boxes before that, 
dating back to before my transition—all 
labeled with my birth name—include 
an evolving set of colorful self-portraits. 
Each drawing was an attempt to com-
municate who I was to the world. Each 
was crafted in Tony Ferraiolo’s Saturday 
morning drawing group.

Every other weekend starting at 
age six, I would walk into the location 
of Tony’s drawing group in my school 
clothes. Solemnly, I’d change in the 
bathroom into whatever feminine out-
fit I had most recently bought from a 
secondhand store in Hamden. Sitting 
around a table covered with scraps of 
printer paper and loose magic markers, 
I’d make art with a group of other gender- 
nonconforming kids from around the 
greater New Haven area. Tony would 
give us instructions: “How many of you 
have been sad about how you relate to 
your body? Draw it.” 

As a kid, I just knew him as the 
bowler-hat 
wearing, 
tattoo-covered 
guy who ran my loosely-defined art 
class. But Tony wears many other hats: 
founder of the Jim Collins Foundation, 
which provides funding to trans people 
across America for gender-affirming 
surgeries; director of the youth and fam-
ily program for Healthcare Advocate 
International, a Hartford-based educa-
tional and medical organization; guest 
speaker at countless corporations and 
groups across Connecticut—a self-des-
cribed “professional trans person.”

When I began attending Tony’s 
classes, I never really wondered how or 
why the program started; I took it for 
granted that resources like these were 
available to me. But Tony founded 
the group in 2008, only a year before 
I joined. What he offers is a compre-
hensive but casual program that allows 
children to express themselves creatively, 
and, through a simultaneous parent 
group, provide practical and emotional 
advice. Through this twofold structure, 
Tony helps families make sense of their 
role in their child’s gender journey.

The group evades bureaucratic cat-
egorization; it is not housed under any 
umbrella nonprofit, and there is no 
official name. He even avoids describ-
ing the group as his own: “I knew 
from the beginning that these are not 
‘my’ groups, but the members’ groups,” 
Tony explained to me over email. “We 
don’t have an agenda or a certain sub-
ject that the members have to talk about. 
The support groups are free flowing.” 
Members can choose the creative activ-
ity that they do on a given day, and are 
free to direct the conversation in which-
ever direction they please.
gender-nonconforming youth and their 
parents.

A lack of conventional publicity 
has not prevented Tony’s group from 
expanding, however. Fifteen years after 
its founding, the program is thriving, 
with dozens of kids and families attend-
ing each week. When I started attend-
ing as a first-grader, I was one of the 
youngest, shyly watching the teenagers 
joke around in the room next door; now, 
there are facilitators and ‘junior facil-
itators’ (past members who have aged 
out of the program and want to remain 
involved) who help Tony manage the 
larger number of kids. He has split the 
group into three simultaneous sessions 
with different activities based on age: 
drawing time for those under nine, and 
discussion groups for pre-teens (ten to 
twelve) and teenagers (thirteen to eigh-
teen). For the last hour of each session, 
everyone joins together to play board 
games and socialize.

This independence from a larger 
institution is part of what has allowed 
Tony’s classes to continue for so long; 
activities hosted by the New Haven 
Pride Center, for example, have been 
hampered since the nonprofit lost its 
501(c)(3) status for a few months this 
year after failing to file tax returns. 
Tony’s group, on the other hand, does 
not rely directly on institutional support; 
he offers the Saturday morning meet-
ings pro bono, paying for the craft sup-
plies out-of-pocket. Locations in and 
around New Haven allow him to use 
their spaces at no expense for him or the 
families who attend.

During the years when I was a 
member of Tony’s class, we bounced 
around between three locations. Since 
then, the group has settled down in one 
place. Tony keeps the meeting location 
private, he told me when we met in a 
cafe one February morning, to pro-
tect the members of the group. “We 
have people who hate us.”

hen I asked my mom 
how we first learned about 
Tony’s group, she described a 
convoluted chain of contacts. 
Since my kindergarten days, 
we had been part of a series 
of informal groups focused 
on gender-nonconform-
ing children: a mailing 
list for parents to share 
resources (known by 
its subscribers simply 
as ‘The Listserv’); a group in New York 
City that we attended a couple of times 
during my second grade year; an annual 
summer family gathering known as 
Camp I Am. One early liaison from 
these networks was Edgardo Menvielle, 
a Psychiatrist at the Children’s National 
Medical Center in Washington, D.C., 
who put us in touch with a local contact 
who in turn connected us with Tony. 
Others seem to have found out 
about Tony’s group through similarly 
convoluted means. As I started working 
on this article, my mother forwarded me 
a few of the emails she had received over 
the last decade from parents of gen-
der-nonconforming youth. Searching 
through the archives of her inbox, scru-
pulously sorted just like my childhood 
artwork, my mom had located doz-
ens of email chains with parents from 
around Connecticut. Some had gotten 
her contact information from mutual 
friends; others knew to reach out to her 
because they had received an email sent 
to my whole elementary school when I 
transitioned; still others were referred 
to her by local clergy or physicians who 
had worked with our family. The parents 
who reached out to her seemed unable 
to find these resources on their own; 
one 2016 email sent to my mom from 
a parent of a student at my elemen-
tary school read, “Do you know of any 
social support groups for preteens? I’ve 
reached out to a couple LGBT groups 
and haven’t heard back. We are trying 
to find anything near New Haven that 
would be welcoming.” A similar email 
came from a member of our synagogue; 
another was from a professor who had 
just moved to town. At the end of each




**Title: Drawing it Out**
**Author: Hannah Szabó**
**Page number(s): 31-32**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
31
TheNewJournal        March 2023
chain of correspondence, she would send 
the concerned parent Tony’s contact info. 
“He is the connector who holds the com-
munity together,” she wrote in one email. 
This elaborate network of referrals 
makes it difficult to trace the origins of 
Tony’s group—only Tony himself can 
explain how it began.


hen I arrived five minutes early  
 to scout out a table for my meeting 
with Tony, I found him already there, sit-
ting by the window. He was the same as 
I remembered him, beard combed into a 
triangular point, arms covered in a sleeve 
of tattoos that featured, in black lettering 
on his right arm, the phrase ‘CREATE 
YOURSELF.’ I, on the other hand, was 
ten inches taller and six years into hor-
mone replacement therapy. He looked 
up with a smile, exclaiming, “You’ve 
gotten older!”


When Tony started the group, he 
explained, it was easier to find. He 
announced the proposed meeting times 
and distributed fliers at True Colors, the 
annual LGBTq+ youth conference hosted 
on the University of Connecticut Storrs 
campus. At Tony’s first class, only two 
kids showed up. “One of them, Angel, 
did the same thing you always did,” 
Tony laughed, recalling my outfit swaps. 
“She went to the bathroom and changed 
into what she wanted to wear. And 
that’s when I knew that this could really 
be space to feel comfortable in your skin, 
create, and be yourself.”


Before 2011, when “gender iden-
tity or expression” was added to 
Connecticut’s list of legally protected 
categories, there was no requirement 
that schools respect the identities or 


--- Page 32 ---

32
March 2023        TheNewJournal
needs of gender-nonconforming and 
trans students. And it wasn’t until 2015 
that Yale Health’s Gender Program, a 
centralized source for trans healthcare 
in New Haven, was established. Facing 
a lack of social and medical resources, 
many families with trans or gender 
non-conforming children turned to 
Tony for his familiarity with these 
issues, and ended up attending his sup-
port group.


Even nonprofits and medical ser-
vices that were nominally offering 
support for queer youth began to refer 
their patients to Tony, unsure of how to 
help them navigate other parts of the 
bureaucracy.  “Pretty soon organizations 
all around Connecticut were contact-
ing me,” Tony said. He would receive 
open-ended requests from overwhelmed 
therapists and doctors, who knew him 
from his public speaking and nonprofit 
involvement: “We have a seven-year-old, 
we have a nine-year-old, we don’t know 
what to do,” Tony recalled them saying. 
“Can you help?”


The group quickly grew from there. 
Now, Tony finds publicizing the group 
unnecessary. He explained that peo-
ple just know about him, as we had, 
through the natural social fabric of 
the LGBTQ+ community. “I always get 
emails that say stuff, like, ‘a friend of a 
friend knows a parent that goes to your 
group,’” described Tony. “Barely anyone 
knows my last name. People just say—
oh, there’s this guy, you know Tony—oh 
yeah, I know Tony!”


ony’s strength lies in his abil-
ity to simultaneously offer practical 
and emotional support. When families 
ask for advice about legal or medical 
services, he is already familiar with the 
specific laws and systems that govern 
Connecticut. When a child is unsure 
about how to express themselves in 
words, he sits with them and has them 
draw pictures. And when he needs to 
help a hesitant parent come around to 
accepting their child, he meets them 
where they are. 


Tony described one recent interac-
tion on the phone with the father of a 
child who had come out as trans: “He 
was dropping the F bomb, cursing his 
kid out. I said, well, is there any self-
harm or any suicidal ideations going 
on with the kid? ‘Oh yeah. He tried to 
kill himself three times.’ So I said, let 
me ask you a quick question. Do you 
want to accept your son or mourn your 
daughter? Because there is a likelihood 
of you standing in front of that grave 
saying, shit, I should have called you Chris 
this whole time.”


Tony has seen these stories, all-too-
common in the trans community, play 
out around him; he has witnessed first-
hand the effects of children feeling alone. 
“A few years ago, I was visiting a psych 
hospital to see a kid . . . When he saw me, 
he smiled so big. To me, it felt like at 
that moment in my life, I was respon-
sible for all these lives.” The burden 
of providing a child with the love and 
acceptance that their parents had with-
held left Tony physically incapacitated. 
“My blood pressure went sky high. I had 
to go to the emergency room.” Tony 
took a yearlong break from life coaching 
after this incident.


community, it is these relationships 
Tony crafts and facilitates that most 
powerfully transform the lives of those 
around him. “That’s what I’m here for,” 
he told me. “I’m here to talk it out.” 


When I was around nine, I asked 
Tony to start having one-on-one meet-
ings. I had started to become aware of 
an identity being forced upon me that 
felt deeply wrong. During music and 
gym time, we were now split into “boy” 
and “girl” groups; in Spanish class, my 
grammar started to be corrected when 
I resisted using the masculine ending -o 
to describe myself. Amidst these curric-
ular shifts, I grappled with the fact that 
my body was soon going to change in 
ways I wasn’t sure I could deal with. But 
I lacked the words to describe exactly 
what it was I wanted to say. 


Tony and I would meet every 
month or so, on weekday evenings in his 
Hamden apartment. The walls of his liv-
ing room were decorated with his own 
art—abstract and tactile, loose brush-
work and dripping colors. It was here 
in this private space, sketchpad in hand, 
that I first articulated through drawing 
that I was transgender. When I didn’t 
want to talk it out, Tony and I would 
draw it out. ∎


Hannah Szabó is a sophomore 
in Pauli Murray College.


On June 10th at 6:30, at North 
Branford High School, his alma mater, 
there will be a tenth-anniversary 
screening of the documentary A Self-
Made Man, a film by Lori Petchers 
about Tony’s life and his work with 
transgender and nonbinary youth and 
their families The event will bene-
fit Q+, a queer youth organization 
in Hartford, tv-365, a non-profit 
organization serving the transgender 
community, and North Branford 
High Schools Diversity Group.


Helping a child navigate their own 
gender identity thus requires a complex 
combination of buy-in and detachment 
from parents. “I don’t think people real-
ize this enough with kids,” Tony pos-
ited, “but no one knows who they are 
better than they do. I tell parents all 
the time, allow your child to walk their 
journey. You just protect them. They 
know who they are.” 


Tony described the types of lan-
guage he frequently uses with hesitant 
parents. “I’m not trying to talk you into 
anything. The only thing I’m trying to 
do, because of the love you have for your 
child, is make sure you have a good rela-
tionship with them, support them.” 


Beyond the myriad of concrete ways 
he contributes to Connecticut’s LGBTQ+ 


--- Page 33 ---

33
TheNewJournal

**Title: Kissing One of Your Queer Awakenings**
**Author: Adrian Elizalde**
**Page number(s): 33**

Poem
Kissing One of Your Queer Awakenings
11/28/22 
I had a dream about you last night. 
In the dream, I was at a party that happened to be yours. 
And in the dream, I wanted to avoid you but pick up something you had made before I left. 
The night before you left, we sat in your old red pickup truck, or rather you sat on my lap in 
your old red pickup truck and you were strangely persistent about returning a small gift I had 
given you. Before kissing me. 
The first time I wanted to say hello to you was in middle school when you were both what I 
wanted to be and who I wanted to be with. Maybe it was only one of those, maybe it was both. 
I still don’t know. But I was happy to have you as something to think about. 
High school came around and our first bad relationships had ended. And our mutual friend 
wingman’d us together until we became “definitely better than my first relationship” to each other. 
Until we got sunburned from sitting in a muddy apple orchard. Until you were saying you’d 
show up to my high school on my birthday with a present and a lunch date. Until we drove 
back to our middle school where we walked, you close to me, in the pitch black you were afraid 
of, to look at racing meteors that we would never have been able to see. Until we got tired of 
sitting under our middle school tree. Until we walked back to your old red pickup truck 
where you sat on my lap and gave me back the thing that would’ve made you feel guilty to keep.
I don’t love you. I think I never did. And you knew that you never loved me, you just liked how 
I treated you. And that’s okay now. It has been for a long time.
We never said goodbye. You just said you were sorry to tell me like this over text. You 
returned my hoodie two days later. The one with my last name written on the back that you 
wore at school while we were together. We never said goodbye. You just watched the red 
pickuptruck hickey I left on your neck fade over the following days. And knowing that I’d left 
you with something that called for an explanation to my also fading friends at your school, 
That no one knew who you were at my school, was pettily satisfying to me. 
We never said goodbye. We just pass each other in the street of our little town, pretending we 
never said hello to begin with



**Title: Waiting for Care**
**Author: Theia Chatelle and Iz Klemmer**
**Page number(s): 34, 36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
At the Yale Pediatric Gender 
Program, trans kids say they receive 
great care—but it’s not easy to get.


<br>

**Page number(s): 36**

BEGINNINGS
On the night of August 17th, 2022, 
Dr. Christy Olezeski received a Twitter 
notification. Then another, and another. 
She was on vacation with her family, taking 
a break from New Haven and the pressures 
of her work as Director of the Yale Pediatric 
Gender Program (YPGP). She hadn’t even 
brought her work laptop with her—her goal 
was to unplug. But, as the Twitter notifica-
tions streamed in, she realized something was 
wrong. The world had found her.
Dr. Olezeski, affectionately known by her 
patients as just Dr. Christy, knew it was only 
a matter of time. Right-wing activists had 
launched threats targeting Boston Children’s 
Hospital earlier that same month, and the 
year’s legislative sessions had seen a slate of 
anti-trans bills passed in Texas, Alabama, and 
Idaho. Dr. Olezeski hadn’t been deterred—
but when she saw that Libs of TikTok, a 
right-wing Twitter account with over a mil-
lion followers, had reposted a video of her 
from the YPGP’s website, she knew the YPGP 
was in danger.
“I give it twenty-four hours before I get 
my first death threat,” she thought to herself. 
The next morning, Dr. Olezeski woke up to 
four emails she described as “quite unpleas-
ant.” Within two days, the story was picked 
up by international conservative media outlets 
including Fox News, the New York Post, and 
the Daily Mail. “Yale professor blasted for pro-
gram working with 3-year-olds on their ‘gen-
der journey,’” read Fox News’ headline. More 
emails streamed in, and phone calls and let-
ters began arriving at the clinic. Some of Dr. 
Olezeski’s harassers even found her home 
address, sending letters directly to her house. 
Dr. Olezeski was the face of the YPGP, and so far-right media 
outlets and influencers like Libs of TikTok descended on her 
as an emblem of “gender ideology,” a term used in transpho-
bic politics which presents the existence of trans people as a 
threat to society. In total, she and the clinic received hundreds 
of threats. 
As Dr. Olezeski sat in one of the clinic’s sterile conference 
rooms, recounting the harassment on a cloudy afternoon last 
February, she took a deep breath. Then she took another, and 
then another. And, finally, she began to cry. Dr. Anisha Patel, 
one of the co-founders of the YPGP alongside Dr. Olezeski, 
hugged her. “We’re huggers here at the clinic,” Dr. Patel 
affirmed. Dr. Patel sat back down, but Dr. Olezeski began to 
cry again, so Dr. Patel returned for another hug and continued 
to sit by Christy’s side. The two took a moment to collect them-
selves, and then Dr. Patel emphasized that, after the threats, 
“the support came from the team. We were always pretty close, 
but now we’re like a little family.” 
The Yale Pediatric Gender Program started with an email. 
In 2014, Dr. Olezeski was working in the Department of 
Psychiatry at the Yale School of Medicine (YSM). After speak-
ing with trans community leaders in New Haven about the 
needs of the trans kids they worked with, Dr. Olezeski emailed 
the Department of Endocrinology to ask who was providing 
healthcare to trans youth. The response was concerning: Yale 
had no such program. Luckily, there were other interested 
doctors in the pediatric endocrinology department at YSM, 
including Dr. Patel. 
Prior to 2014, Dr. Patel had the occasional trans patient 
but lacked the infrastructure to do anything but refer them to 
hospitals in Boston and Hartford. One patient of hers lacked 
the resources to make it to either city. “I don’t have anywhere 
to go,” she remembers the patient telling her. “You’re my doctor, 
and I want you to do this for me.” Dr. Patel looked him in the 
face and made a promise: “I will figure this out.” 
With the addition of Dr. Susan Boulware and Dr. Stuart 
Weinzimer, both pediatric endocrinologists at Yale, the 
Pediatric Gender Program team officially numbered four. But 
before they could open their doors, they had to research. The 
team contacted academic pediatric gender centers across the




**Title: Waiting for Care**
**Author: Theia Chatelle and Iz Klemmer**
**Page number(s): 37-39**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
37
March 2023
Waiting for Care
country, discussing policies and procedures. The four doctors 
met monthly for a year to assemble their team. They recruited 
endocrinologists, psychologists, psychiatrists, an OB­/­GYN, an 
ethicist, and a lawyer. Every team member worked on a vol-
unteer basis. 
“We knew it was going to take a long time to go through 
the regular channels at Yale,” Dr. Olezeski said. But trans kids 
were in desperate need of care, and they had nowhere to go in 
New Haven. The team decided on a work-around: one half-
day a month, the three endocrinologists would take on gender 
patients instead of their general endocrine schedule. The clinic 
officially started taking patients in October 2015. “There was 
no ribbon cutting,” Dr. Christy laughed. “It was all word of 
mouth in the beginning.” 
But word of mouth traveled fast: wait times had ballooned 
to eight months by 2017. Soon after, wait times were mea-
sured in years. The team petitioned Yale New Haven Hospital 
(YNHH) for support, and, in 2018, they were able to begin 
providing gender-affirming care for one full day per week. 
During the pandemic, they added clinics on the first and fifth 
Thursdays each month, growing 
to their current total of nine to 
eleven clinics per month. As of 
2023, they provide services in 
New Haven, Trumbull, and Old 
Saybrook. To date, the YPGP has 
provided care to 425 people. But 
as more states across the country 
have adopted hostile attitudes 
toward trans teens, demand for 
the clinic’s services have grown, 
with patients streaming in from 
places as far away as Florida.
2020 was a difficult year for 
LGBTQ+ youth. 2021 was worse, 
and 2022 was no better. As of 
March 10th, 2023, bills have 
been introduced in 22 different 
state legislatures to criminal-
ize gender-affirming healthcare. 
Recently, both Tennessee and 
Mississippi passed bans on gender-affirming healthcare 
for minors, and several other states, including Texas, appear 
poised to be next. While Connecticut has reaffirmed its com-
mitment to the legality of gender-affirming healthcare, Dr. 
Olezeski still worries. “While yes, Connecticut is lucky to be 
in a place where there aren’t attacks actively happening, but it 
seems like the climate is still dangerous,” Dr. Olezeski said. 
But the harassment Dr. Olezeski and the YPGP faced last 
summer has only strengthened their commitment to the trans 
community. “We’re not stopping and we’re just going to con-
tinue to grow,” Dr. Olezeski emphasized. “It’s made our team 
stronger, I think. And so we’re not backing down.”


ROWAN
On the eleventh of every month, Rowan gets a calendar 
notification: “record voice update video.” With his catalog of 
monthly videos, he can look back and trace the changes in his 
voice, an effect of the testosterone he’s been taking for the last 
year. “As someone who does a lot of singing, I started as a mez-
zo-soprano and now I’m a bass baritone,” Rowan explained. 
“That’s super, super cool.” 
Rowan is fifteen years old, from South Windsor, CT. He 
loves Deftones, plays the guitar, and is excited about his 
upcoming role as Pugsley in his school’s production of The 
Addams Family. He’s also a patient at the YPGP.
When Rowan was thirteen, he told his parents he wanted 
to start testosterone. His voice dysphoria was so bad that he 
struggled to talk and didn’t want to leave the house. He had 
been questioning his gender since he was eleven, and he was 
finally sure that he wanted to pursue gender-affirming care. “I 
felt very guilty that I was kind of breaking their expectations 
of me,” Rowan remembered. Despite his anxiety, his parents 
were accepting from the beginning, and they were eager to 
meet his needs. They knew his quality of life was at risk.
In late 2020, Rowan and his parents got to work finding 
a clinic. Rowan’s parents called the YPGP, and they were lucky: 
when they called, the waitlist for an appointment was only 
three to five months. When the day of the appointment came, 
Rowan and his parents loaded up 
the car and drove for an hour to 
get to New Haven. He remem-
bered being a little nervous but 
“very excited to see where it was 
gonna lead me.” 
The YPGP was an instantly 
comforting space for Rowan. “It 
felt like they’re kind of a fam-
ily,” he said. Even though it 
was a doctor’s appointment, it 
felt like a casual conversation 
where he could express his needs. 
After Rowan explained what he 
needed out of the clinic, they 
explained the options they had 
available for him. Rowan left his 
intake appointment with a pre-
scription and a new outlook on 
life. “My confidence skyrocketed.”
Now, one year later, Rowan 
returns to the clinic every few months for follow-up appoint-
ments. First he meets with Dr. Boulware, then Dr. Olezeski 
and Dr. Patel. Rowan also meets with clinical psychology 
Ph.D. student Wisteria Deng to have a one-on-one conversa-
tion about his mental health and wellness. 
In 2022, Rowan found out about a unique opportunity 
from the clinic’s mailing list: a circus workshop for trans kids. 
Rowan participated for a few months that summer. “It was a 
really fun experience,” he said. The workshop was a space to 
learn skills ranging from juggling to walking balance beams, 
and doctors participated right alongside the kids. Even Dr. 
Olezeski picked up a new favorite party trick: she can now 
balance a peacock feather on her hand. 
At the Yale Pediatric Gender Clinic, Rowan has found 
more than just medical care: he’s found community. The YPGP 
changed Rowan’s life, and he knows it. “I’m very grateful that 
I have this privilege,” he acknowledged. Rowan’s case, how-
ever, is frustratingly rare. For many trans kids in New Haven 
and across Connecticut, access to care remains locked behind 
a waitlist and a multitude of structural barriers.
For many trans kids 
in New Haven and 
across Connecticut, 
access to care 
remains locked 
behind a waitlist 
and a multitude of 
structural barriers.


---

**Page number(s): 38-39**

38
TheNewJournal
JUDE
Jude Arnott was referred to the YPGP in 2019 after he 
was hospitalized at the Yale New Haven Psychiatric Hospital. 
Jude, fifteen years old at the time, struggled with overwhelm-
ing emotions and didn’t know how to cope. He struggled with 
outbursts, aggression, and suicidal ideation. He would later 
realize that many of his struggles were the result of gender 
dysphoria, which he had struggled with for years. When he 
found himself back at YNHH in 2019, the doctors on-call rec-
ommended he make an appointment with Dr. Olezeski at the 
YPGP. So he tried. And tried. And tried.
When Jude told his parents in 2015 that he wanted to start 
to socially transition, his parents didn’t bat an eye. “I am one of 
the luckiest people,” said Jude. “My parents have health insur-
ance, they were supportive, and I was in a place where I could 
get gender-affirming healthcare.” But as Dr. Olezeski stressed, 
for every person like Jude, there is at least one teen who wants 
to transition, but doesn’t have parental support or the financial 
resources to do so. “I worry about those kids,” said Dr. Olezeski.
Jude was placed on the YPGP waiting list. The YPGP told 
him and Kathleen, his mother, that it would be at least three 
years until he could be seen for an intake appointment. But 
Jude was in need of immediate attention: he was in and out of 
the hospital, and his relationship with his brother and parents 
was under strain, punctuated by fights despite their support. 
He required treatment immediately, but the YPGP simply didn’t 
have the capacity. Jude and his parents had to look around for 
the next best option.
While Jude’s decision to leave the YPGP’s waiting list was 
quick, the process of finding other care was difficult. At first, 
Jude saw a gender therapist in the New Haven area. After six 
Illustrations of Rowan (left) 
and Jude (right).



39
months, he received a letter of written support from his thera-
pist attesting to his need for treatment—these letters are a nec-
essary first step toward beginning gender-affirming treatment 
at many clinics. He also obtained a referral to the Connecticut 
Children’s Medical Center’s Gender Identity Program (CCMC). 
Letter in hand, he and his family called CCMC to schedule an 
appointment. The process was quick: after his first visit at CCMC, 
Jude was prescribed puberty-blocking medication. A doctor 
placed an implant in his arm, and shortly thereafter he began 
hormone replacement therapy. 
Jude also attempted to get “top surgery,” a masculinizing 
bilateral mastectomy, from a surgeon at YNHH. According to 
Kathleen, the surgeon’s staff refused to update Jude’s legal name 
in their system, which she says led to them deadnaming Jude—
referring to him by the name on his birth certificate that he 
no longer identifies with—over twenty times. Kathleen strug-
gled with Anthem, her insurance provider, whose coverage of 
gender-affirming surgeries does not typically extend to minors. 
And then, after a year and a half of waiting, she received a call: 
the surgeon had retired, and the surgery was canceled.  The sur-
geon’s office didn’t return a request for comment. At the age of 15, 
and long after the ordeal at Yale, Jude was finally able to receive 
top surgery at CCMC. “It was tough for 
him, but if there’s one thing about Jude, 
if he wants to do something, he’s going 
to do it,” said Kathleen.
Families’ relationships with the 
YPGP differ, and wait times can vary 
widely from year to year. While 
Rowan was lucky enough to avoid 
the YPGP’s growing waitlist, Jude was 
never able to schedule an appoint-
ment despite an inpatient psychiatric 
referral. Oftentimes, a family’s experi-
ence with the YPGP is driven by fac-
tors outside their control. Insurance 
policies, distance between the clinic 
and a family’s home, and the support 
(or lack of support) parents show for 
their child all influence a family’s abil-
ity to find treatment. But for trans 
teens, time is ticking. With every passing minute, they’re going 
through puberty—the wrong puberty—and undergoing the 
unwanted, irreversible physical changes this puberty brings on. 



**Page number(s): 39**

ALEX
Alex, an eleven-year-old in New Haven, could be 
described as a free spirit. She refuses to conform to society’s 
expectations of what a boy or girl should be. She likes to 
experiment: with her uniform at Elm City Montessori, her 
name, her pronouns. She’s obsessed with Disney’s Frozen: 
according to her mother, Jessica, the movie was a forma-
tive part of Alex’s gender journey. Jessica and her wife didn’t 
think much of it at the time. “We were like, Alex is a kid who 
loves long hair, loves princesses, and loves powers. That kind 
of thing.”
As Alex grew, she felt limited by her peers’ expectations of 
her. She didn’t want to be a boy. She didn’t want to be a girl. 
But after talking with her parents, she decided that, if she had 
to be one or the other, “I choose girl,” she said. For Jessica, “the 
pressures are still there to call certain behaviors girl behaviors 
and others boy behaviors.” Even though, as Jessica was quick to 
point out, East Rock and New Haven are welcoming places to 
be trans, there are still biases and uncomfortable situations that 
Alex has encountered. For example, at school, there were only 
boys or girls uniforms for her to pick from. This is something 
that Jessica admits Alex will have to live with, but “so far, she’s 
doing a great job.” 
In late 2021, at the urging of their pediatrician, Alex’s par-
ents decided to schedule an intake appointment with the YPGP. 
They were informed that the wait time was thirteen months. 
But Alex had time. She hadn’t started puberty, and while the 
wait was long, it was something they were willing to put up 
with. The quality of care at the YPGP made the wait worth it, 
Jessica had heard. So as long as Alex was fine with the wait, 
there was nothing to lose—until they received another call 
from the YPGP. Alex’s appointment had been canceled, and 
they would have to reschedule for another thirteen months 
later. That was enough for Jessica. “There’s this feeling that 
maybe they’re providing great services, but if my kid can’t get 
them, that makes me mad.”
To meet the demand of their cur-
rent waitlist, the YPGP needs to add 
more clinic time and hire more doc-
tors. With appointments that average 
ninety minutes, they need more time 
than most endocrinology providers. 
However, the YSM administration has 
been pushing back on their requests for 
more resources. “When there’s limited 
space, they’re gonna say, ‘No, we don’t 
want you to open another gender clinic, 
we want you to open up a general 
endocrine clinic, because short kids 
need to be seen too,’” Dr. Boulware 
said, referring to cisgender kids who 
need support for atypical puberty. But 
there are dozens of endocrinologists 
treating cisgender kids in the New 
Haven area, while the YPGP is the only 
program serving trans kids.
As a stopgap measure to help those on the waitlist, the 
YPGP provides events and community to any trans kid in the 
area. Dr. Olezeski first started a parent support group and 
then expanded to a youth group. She offers the events to any-
one on her mailing list as a way to provide outlets for trans 
kids to connect with other trans kids.“We’ll try to get them 
involved in these other things to sort of have that community 
and support,” she said.
But supplemental programming can only go so far when 
patients are waiting two years to be seen. “We’re just asking 
for more money. Continuously more money,” Dr. Olezeski 
explained. “More money to hire more people.” Without insti-
tutional support, trans kids like Alex will continue to stare 
down extensive wait times at the expense of their physical and 
mental wellbeing. ∎
Theia Chatelle is a sophomore in Hopper College. Iz Klemmer 
is a sophomore in Saybrook College.
“...maybe they’re 
providing great 
services, but 
if my kid can’t 
get them, that 
makes me mad.”



**Title: We will live in a corner house.**
**Author: Anaiis Rios-Kasoga**
**Page number(s): 40-41**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
We will live in a corner house.
And when it pours in the springtime, the cherry 
blossoms will float down, blanketing the block in 
pink icing. They will create a new earth; water will 
clear away the old. I will sit in our bay window 
while you do the crossword in the kitchen. I will 
count the yellow taxis that roll by and the poor 
souls  shrouded by large black umbrellas who fall 
victim to the not so shallow puddle at the base of 
our porch. This yellowed kitchen is a concert hall 
and we are the music, crowd, and singer. When I 
miss you, I just put on that Nina Simone record, 
the one you said was playing the night we met. I 
don’t remember, but you do—you always do. You 
follow behind while I scour the garage sale at the 
white picket fence house two streets over. My 
hands run over frayed garments, well-loved by 
someone else. I will lay in my favorite spot on the 
grass you’ve just mowed. You will admire the rays 
in between sneezes and red-rimmed eyes. 
Our beloved, ancient couch will be the first thing 
we move in. It will find its place in the center of 
a room covered in dark hardwoods. My fingers 
will trace the outline of carefully embroidered 
flowers as I’ve done a hundred times before. Too 
exhausted to lift anything else, we will collapse 
into its well known, sun-faded grooves.
At the end of our days, when the sun has fallen, 
we settle into the weathered, flowered couch. Your 
grandmother gave it to us. It was her mother’s. 
The cushions wear their age as she did. They cradle 
our bodies just right, morphed to our conjoined 
form over countless Sundays of use. I will lean 
into you and brush the hair from your shoulder. 
I will kiss your cheek and you will turn to meet 
me halfway. You taste like you always have: warm. 
Some nights we dance—off the couch, on our feet, 
around the peeling hardwoods. Nina’s voice rings 
through the speakers. You throw your head back 
to match her croon. I laugh in between steps—
not because it’s funny, but because I love you. 
Large oak trees will line our street. They’d be 
ominous if they weren’t so saintly. Quiet but never 
barren, home to laughter and lost kitten signs. 
Streets that swell with multi-colored leaves come 
autumn. You will point, placing bets on when 
they will fall. Just when we think they can’t hold 
anymore, we wake to find the asphalt submerged 
under a rust-colored sea. One that crunches 
under the running feet of eager vampires pushing 
their fangs back into place. The bloodsuckers are 
followed in single file by ghosts wearing tennis 
shoes and fire fighters with pigtails. You and I 
will wait for them to reach our front porch; the 
light is on. We pass out king-sized candy bars; our 
house will have quite the reputation. I make my 
best costume guess as the little ones arrive on our 
doorstep and reward them with sweets regardless 
of my blunders. When we’ve run out of currency, 
our jack-o’-lanterns still burn bright, so we sit 
on the rickety steps. When the winds reach our 
bones, we retreat to the television—back to that 
flowered couch. We sink into its cushions and I 
can feel all the other hallowed nights we’ve had 
together as if they’re happening all over again. We 
hear wolves howling over the screams of teenagers 
who need to be treated like adults. You slip out 
of costume still covered in makeup, half you, half 
make-believe.


**Title: Coming Out, Coming Home**
**Author:  (Author not specified)**
**Page number(s): 42**

TheNewJournal
42
 Coming Out, 
Coming Home
Queer Christians in New Haven and at Yale 
are finding ways to enrich their spiritual lives 
through their LGBTQ+ identities.



**Title: Coming Out, Coming Home**
**Author: Abbey Kim**
**Page number(s): 44-45**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
“Four days a week I was going to church,” Holly Nichols 
told me in the nave of the United Church on the Green. “They 
waited a year and a half to tell me I was going to Hell.”
Nichols has been religious since the age of six or seven, 
when she first attended Lutheran services in Hamden with a 
childhood friend. She described to me how being in church 
continues to give her a peace she cannot find anywhere else. 
Despite her love of God, she has struggled to find a church that 
accepts and affirms her as a lesbian.

About six months before we spoke, Nichols had been 
attending a non-denominational church in North Haven. She’d 
been there for around a year—involved with Bible study, prayer 
group, and services—when she brought her wife to a Sunday 
service. Shortly after, she told me, one of the five church alders 
told her that being married to a woman was a sin and that she 
had to repent. Nichols brushed it off as just one person’s opinion 
rather than that of the church. But she did not bring her wife 
back again.

The next intervention came when Nichols attended 
membership class, hoping to become an official member in 
the church after more than a year of devoted attendance and 
financial support. But before she entered the church, a mem-
ber at the door warned her that she couldn’t become a member 
if she was gay.
“I think I was in denial that they were going to take it as far 
as they did,” Nichols said. “I thought they were just trying to 
make a point, but I didn’t think it would stand in the way of my 
becoming a member or eventually my being able to attend.”

In September 2022, a year and a half into Nichols’ time with 
the church, the congregation staged a third, full-on interven-
tion for her. Four alders—those with long-term experience and 
standing in the church—and two long-standing members sur-
rounded her in a room.
“They went around in a circle and told me why my marriage 
was wrong, why I was going to Hell,” Nichols said, growing qui-
eter. “And that did test me.”

After that final intervention, Nichols decided to leave that 
church. She first took some time away from formal religious 
spaces, instead investing in her personal prayer life, journaling, 
making gratitude lists—even skydiving.
“It’s traumatizing to be told that you’re rejected by God,” 
Nichols said. “It was really hard to feel like it was safe to go back 
to church.”

After a few months, Nichols began seeking a new worship 
community, but found it difficult to locate an affirming church. 
Her search, mainly directed by Google hits, led her to one dead 
end after another, including uninspiring Zoom-only services 
and an empty parking lot where a church had once been.

She started attending the United Church on the Green a 
little over a month before we met. One of her Google searches 
for an “open and affirming” congregation had finally worked.
“Open and affirming” is a designation created by the United 
Church of Christ (UCC)—the national Christian denomina-
tion to which the United Church on the Green belongs—to 
assert the full inclusion of LGBTQ+ congregants in church life. 
The label means not only welcoming queer congregants into the 
church, but also affirming that their lives are not in conflict with 
the Bible’s teachings.

In practice, “open and affirming” churches fall along a spec-
trum; some churches incorporate it as a tenet of their com-
munity philosophy, while others—according to some queer 
churchgoers—appropriate the phrase as a means of drawing in 
new members. UCC is a congregational church, which means it’s 
much less centralized than other Christian denominations like 
Episcopalian, Presbyterian, and Catholic churches. Because of 
this decentralization, each local UCC congregation can deter-
mine its own policies and practices, including whether to adhere 
to suggested national guidelines. This includes approaches to 
queer affirmation. State by state, county by county, each congre-
gation exercises their own discretion around inclusion.

Standing by the light-filled pews at the back of the church, 
Nichols smiled as she told me about bringing her wife to United. 
She hopes to reintegrate church into their lives together.
“It’s a fresh start without that negative nagging, enemy 
voice telling me this is what makes me not good enough or this 
is what separates me from God that they were feeding me at 
the other church,” she said, as she relaxed her fidgeting hands. 
“Here I don’t have that. I have peace.”

Nichols’ experience with homophobia in the Church is 
not unique. Christian spaces and teachings have notoriously 


**Title: Reclaiming the Bible**
**Page number(s): 45**

created violent and traumatic experiences for members of the 
LGBTQ+ community—in Connecticut and beyond. But Nichols 
is also not alone in her persistent desire, as a queer person, to 
find a Christian community despite these hostile encounters. For 
the LGBTQ+ members of New Haven and Yale’s religious com-
munity with whom I spoke, creating queer spaces and forging 
new meaning in the church means adapting old traditions and 
reexamining conventional readings of the Bible. Many say their 
queerness and spirituality enrich each other.

To exist as a queer person in a Christian space is to stand up 
against generations of canonized, homophobic dogma. Despite 
newer, affirming interpretations, many church leaders still wea-
ponize the Bible to condemn homosexuality. They often ground 
these attacks in what have become known as the “clobber passages,” 
those most cited to condemn LGBTQ+ people as heretical. Perhaps 
the most overt condemnation appears in Leviticus 18:22: “You 
shall not lie with a male as with a woman; it is an abomination.”

Congregants I spoke with had varying reactions to these 
texts. Some cited other archaic rules in Leviticus—like prohi-
bition of eating shellfish or mixing fabrics in one’s clothes, and 
a decree ordering menstruating women to leave city limits—as 
proof that some homophobic Christians selectively punish queer 
people over those who commit other listed abominations.

Others see the process of interpretation as one that changes 
over time. There are a growing number of theologians who are 
reading the Bible—particularly these “clobber passages”—with 
a new lens that recasts them as condemnation of other sexual 
wrongs, like rape or incest, rather than being overtly homophobic.
“I’m not going to look at it as this perfect document that has 
been delivered to us today, as it exactly was when it was written,” 
Cal Swanson ’25, a co-chair of the Episcopal Church at Yale (ECY) 
who is also queer, told me. “I’m going to look at it as an artifact 
that has been through centuries of interpretations and changes.”

In the face of the Bible’s weaponization, many of the queer 
people I spoke with explained how the text could be reclaimed 
as a powerful tool of love and affirmation. Most told me they 
blamed the misinterpretation of Christian teachings for the 
harm they faced, rather than the tenets of Christianity. Queer 
churchgoers generally hold the fundamental belief that God 
is good, loving, and just—even when church doctrines don’t 
reflect that.
“The greatest harm we have ever done in religion is to 
not say love yourself first, and you are lovable, and loved,” 
Rev. Aaron Miller, a transgender man and a pastor at the 
Metropolitan Community Church (MCC) in Hartford, tells me. 
“That’s the thing I say over and over again because if you’ve 
heard it a million times, I want you to hear it a million from me. 
Because you’ve been lied to.”

Miller was confirmed as a Lutheran and attended Catholic 
Church for nearly a decade with a former partner. He left the 
Catholic Church for a number of years before eventually return-
ing to religion and attending Yale Divinity School, graduating in 
2008 and working in pastoral care at Yale New Haven Hospital. 
Then he started attending and later working at MCC, a denomi-
nation founded in 1968 by a gay ex-Pentecostal minister explic-
itly for queer people to worship together.

At the beginning of our conversation, I told Miller—just as 
I told everyone I spoke to—that I am a lesbian who was raised 
Episcopalian, having grown up seeing sexuality and religion in 
fundamental tension with each other. Like the others, he was 
quick to try to persuade me otherwise.
“You have to really do gymnastics to ignore us in the Bible—
the queer folks in the Bible,” he told me, referencing specific 
passages in the scripture that lend themselves to queer-affirm-
ing interpretations, including what he interprets as same-sex 
romantic relationships and trans representation.

He told me about Jonathan and David, and Ruth and 
Naomi. He described them as the only romantic couples in the 
Bible, both of whom are same-sex. Ruth’s vow to Naomi, he 
said, is even commonly used at straight weddings. He went on 
to explain readings of transgender identity in the text, telling 
the story of Genesis 1:27—“So God created humankind in his 
image, in the image of God he created them; male and female 
he created them”—as connoting not separate beings but the 
fact that we contain the potential for both genders within us, 
embodying spectral identities.

Perhaps the most overt 
condemnation appears in 
Leviticus 18:22: “You shall 
not lie with a male as with a 
woman; it is an abomination.”



**Title: Coming Out, Coming Home**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 46-47, 48**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Coming Out, 
Coming Home
46
“It was the gay community 
wanting to worship with itself,” 
Theriault explained.
“It’s so strange to me that this is the same text that’s used 
against gay people,” said Rev. Ali Donohue, chaplain at the ECY 
and a lesbian. “It’s so clear to me how much of this message is 
helpful, and familiar, and home.”

Creating Space
As older churchgoers were quick to remind me, to 
come out as queer even as little as fifty years ago could result 
in anything from forced exile to social isolation in any given 
church, depending on its denomination.
In 1975, Ken Theriault, then a 21-year-old junior at Yale 
College, came out as gay. Theriault had been raised American 
Baptist, “singing in church choir since they had a robe small 
enough for me.” He began studying at the Yale Divinity School, 
hoping to be ordained in the American Baptist Church even 
as it became clearer that he would not be able to serve in their 
ministry because of his sexuality.
Alongside Beverly Lett, a fellow student at the Yale Divinity 
School, Theriault founded a new branch of MCC in New Haven in 
1977. The expansion filled a void, Theriault said, creating a space of 
formal LGBTQ+ religious acceptance in New Haven at a time where 
no churches allowed or affirmed queer worshippers and leaders.
At its first meeting, MCC New Haven met in the small 
upstairs parlor of a local Methodist church. There were about 
fifteen attendees, most of whom had heard about the church 
through word of mouth or the MCC Hartford newsletter, 
Metroline. MCC New Haven also joined with the New Haven 
chapters of Integrity and Dignity—an Episcopalian and a 
Catholic gay religious group, respectively—for monthly pot-
lucks at members’ homes.
From 1977 to 2015, MCC New Haven moved across several 
churches and hosted anywhere between twenty and one hun-
dred congregants a week.
“It was a real church. Just the population was a little different,” 
Theriault told me. “A place to gather and sing and hear sermons, I 
mean it was a regular church service. We weren’t playing church.”
Theriault found that even though local churches weren’t 
openly affirming of queer people yet, they accommodated 
Theriault and Lett’s requests to meet in their space, often for free.
“It was the gay community wanting to worship with itself,” 
Theriault explained. “Just the fact that there were three congrega-
tions that were willing to house us, and saw that as important as 
part of their mission—there was some acceptance there.”
The church advertised through word of mouth, as well 
as what Theriault called a “bar ministry,” in which members 
recruited patrons of local gay bars like Partners Cafe and passed 
out leaflets advertising the church. Later, the church accrued 
more formal local coverage, including a 1979 profile of Theriault 
in the New Haven Register entitled “New Haven Church Offers 
Sanctuary for Homosexuals.”
“I would say most of us came with some negative experience, 
and that’s why we’re looking for something else,” Theriault told 
me, forty-four years later. “People still have their spirituality and 
want to express it somehow.”
Participation at MCC New Haven eventually dwindled. 
Co-founder Lett left in 1979, and the church struggled to hold 
down a permanent location or pastor. As more of New Haven’s 
churches became accepting of queer worshippers in the early 
2000s, the need for a specifically queer church diminished, and 
social schisms proliferated within the MCC. Today, there are no 
gatherings of MCC in New Haven—parishioners can join the 
MCC Oasis Zoom group or travel forty-five minutes to Hartford.
MCC still exists—across the United States and twenty other 
countries—but it faces struggles unique to being a queer church 
amid a broader landscape of declining church membership and 
aging parishioners. A lack of an endowment or the security of 
a historically owned space makes stability nearly impossible, 
explained Sharron Emmons, a member of the Board of the 
Directors at MCC Hartford and a lesbian. She added that the 
historical lack of queer families—and thus the opportunity to 
raise children in queer churches—hurts growth.
“Early on, if you wanted to go to church, [MCC] was the 
church you went to, unless you wanted to be closeted. But as 
different congregations opened up, now you didn’t really need 
an MCC,” said Cathy Vitelli, a lesbian and former member 
of MCC New Haven who moved to an Episcopalian church. 
“You’re more comfortable there. [But] you could find a commu-
nity someplace else.”


**Title: Coming Out, Coming Home**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 50-51**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
“As long as queer kids are being raised in this church—and 
they will be—I think it’s better for them to see people like me 
in the pews than to not,” Oesterblad told me. She emphasized 
she does not try to recruit queer people into the Church. Instead, 
she works with others just like her: baptized Catholics trying to 
navigate hostile yet familiar spaces.


While McNulty and Oesterblad are not alone in their iden-
tities, many of the queer people with whom I spoke who were 
raised Catholic ultimately left the denomination for a variety of 
reasons. Some, like ECY’s Rev. Donohue, realized that, despite 
their love of the faith, it would not make room for their mar-
riage or official ordination. Others, like Forino, were unwilling 
to endure homophobia and partial membership due to their 
sexualities.


In New Haven’s affirming churches, some queer churchgoers 
disregard the religious element of church altogether, staying for 
the welcoming community and its benefits for fostering queer 
connections and social justice.


“From a Christianity and believing-in-God point of view, 
there’s none of that there for me, it’s not what works for me,” 
says Emmons, who has spent decades at both MCC New Haven 
and MCC Hartford despite being an atheist.


“But I’ve seen the church save lives. People come to our 
church, broken—older people, especially because it was tougher 
in the past—where they were kicked out of their families, kicked 
out of their churches,” Emmons adds. “Our message is ‘come 
out, come home, and come back.’ Here’s a place where you can 
re-find your God.”


And many queer people are intent on doing just that. I was 
shocked by the number of queer religious people I stumbled 
upon—young and old—in churches at Yale and New Haven. 
At the United Church on the Green alone, I chatted with three 
queer churchgoers out of a crowd of around twenty people.


One of them was Darnel Ray, a middle-aged gay man who 
sat in the pew in front of me and hummed “mmhmm” in agree-
ment throughout the service. Having been raised American 
Baptist, Ray continued to crave Christianity even after his com-
ing out was a source of conflict between him and his parents. 
Years later, in 2019, he saw the pride flag outside of United and 
decided to try it out. He’s since moved to West Haven but still 
commutes about twenty-five minutes for services. He’s uunsure 
if the church closer to where he lives is accepting, and he’s ner-
vous to find out.


From the Altar
As more openly queer individuals join religious commu-
nities, queer leaders face a dilemma: do they spearhead progress 
towards greater acceptance or seek out already affirming spaces? 
Some, like Donohue and Cadwallader, opt for churches that 
have made strides towards inclusion. Others, like Oesterblad 
and McNulty, find that the nature of non-affirming spaces 
thrusts them into leadership roles since their mere presence 
challenges the status quo. This tension between leading change 
and seeking acceptance animates church communities at New 
Haven and Yale.


Donohue noted that she and her wife, who is also an 
Episcopalian reverend, choose local churches that are already 
affirming. But this choice only came after Donohue left the 
Catholic Church, in which she’d been raised and educated for 
decades of her life.


“I experience [queerness and religion] as a source of strength, 
I observe it as a source of pain,” Donohue explained, noting 
the queer students she’s worked with at Yale are often the ones 
struggling the most. “My only hope is that I’m able to have peo-
ple join me where I’m standing, because I see zero conflict.”


At Yale, there are only four explicitly affirming Christian 
groups out of twenty ministries, explains Rev. Jenny Peek, an 
Associate University Chaplain and lesbian. “Explicitly affirm-
ing” here means believing in the full inclusion and affirmation of 
LGBTQ+ people (including celebrating queer marriages and ordi-
nation) and advertising themselves as such. These groups are the 
Episcopal Church at Yale (ECY), the University Church at Yale 
(UCY), LuMin at Yale, and Yale Progressive Christians Students. 
Peek added that the landscape can sometimes be difficult for 
incoming queer students to navigate.


St. Thomas More walks a thin line when dealing with queer 
students as a Catholic university chapel. The church can—and 
does—welcome queer students, but it cannot formally affirm 
“There is definitely still defiance 
of like, I’m not going to let them 
have the Church,” she said, 
referring to homophobic Catholics. 
“They’re going to have to deal 
with my baptized ass as well.”



**Title: Coming Out, Coming Home**
**Author: Abbey Kim**
**Page number(s): 52**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Coming Out, 
Coming Home
52
them in their ability to live out their queerness, particularly in sex-
ual relationships. This would be a violation of Catholic teachings.
Oesterblad recalls being thrust into a leadership role for the 
LGBTQ+ Ministry at STM—a ministry affinity group founded 
during the pandemic—as one of the few openly queer people 
in the church. Laughing, she remembers wishing she could join 
an already existing space: “Can I just plug into something that 
already exists and be ministered too, please?” Oesterblad ended 
up helping to create, design, and lead the ministry.

In the midst of this landscape, queer chaplains at Yale can 
offer a beacon of representation and affirmation. “Knowing 
that she’s queer and she has this amazing understanding of the 
Bible being about love and being about affirming your LGBTQ 
identities is so helpful for me,” Swanson said of Donohue, who 
leads his church. “I feel like I absorb some of my certainty 
about it from her. And so I think it’s been a big thing having a  
queer chaplain.”

Outside of Yale’s walls, queer reverends often engage in the 
same kind of affirmative work, though for a much broader audi-
ence—not just young adults. But the pastors I spoke with noted 
that the churches that call these queer leaders are often already 
accepting and progressive.

Rev. Cadwallader of the First Presbyterian Church 
recounted a time that a congregation offered her a job with the 
disclosure that about half of the congregation was not ready for 
a queer pastor. The hiring committee hoped she could change 
their minds. She ultimately turned them down: “I’m not in the 
business of splitting churches . . . That journey needs to be done 
by somebody else.”

But not every queer member of non-affirming spaces feel 
that they have a choice.

“I’ve often been the one who starts conversations,” McNulty 
said of his work at the STM’s LGBTQ+ Ministry. “And I’m okay 
with that.” He starts these conversations with a contradiction 
he says he incurs “by virtue of existing”: being a gay Catholic.

Ultimately, queer religious leaders across New Haven can 
usher in a more accepting space, buttressed by the virtue of rep-
resentation. Cadwallader says her queerness is a strength when 
she preaches to all her congregants—even those who aren’t queer.

“I get to remind them again about who Jesus is in their lives 
and why Jesus is important,” Cadwallader said. “And they tend 
to listen to me because I am the voice of the one that was told for 
so long that I shouldn’t be there.”

“Do you have a church home?” Nichols asked me when 
we first met in the nave of United. She echoed the common 
language of many that I spoke with—a church where I could 
belong, be affirmed, and return to, no matter where I was in life.

I told her how I had grown up in the Episcopalian Church, 
but now I was more of a Christmas and Easter Christian. I wor-
ried I’d stopped believing too soon, and I didn’t know if there 
was a future path for me.

After we finish talking, I thank her for opening up about her 
story. She looks at me, holding eye contact as I close my note-
book. I have a strange feeling, like I’m about to cry.

“I hope this project opens your eyes to whatever it is you 
need to see,” Nichols says. “I hope you find whatever it is you’re 
searching for.”

I think I’m starting to see. Perhaps more than queer peo-
ple seeking and finding religion, I’ve found them reclaiming it—
coming home. ∎
Abbey Kim is a sophomore in Branford College and an 
Associate Editor of The New Journal.
Photo courtesy of Aaron Miller
The chapel at mcc Hartford.



**Title: for Abel**
**Author: J.D. Wright**
**Page number(s): 53**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
March 2023
53
TheNewJournal
for Abel

Genesis 4:10
Forgive me, my brother;

or
  do not. I’m sorry
for envying your hands, the way
they never failed to be gentle

when they ran through the wolf’s

fur, and the wolf fell to slumber;
when they wrung the lamb’s neck
who felt no need to bleat

in pain for her mother, having

understood the wringing. Do you
Remember, in the garden, when

we pressed our palms together?
Mine were calloused and caked in dirt,
and the smoothness I felt in yours

made me weep. In your arms I

sank, the dirt stuck, my eyes
bloodshot. When we returned home,
our father asked what had happened,

and I never explained it,

and you never could.
Forgive me, my brother,

for knowing you will.
I am walking toward nowhere,
eating fruit from a gnarled branch,

and if I ever may return,

I will tell our Father to look
for the bed of daisies rustling
even in the iciest wind, and there

you will rest forever, my brother,

bloodless as you came
J.D. Wright 
illustration by charlotte rica


**Title: Berlin Poem for Owen**
**Author: Ella Goldblum**
**Page number(s): 54**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
i.	
I laugh when I realize you’re also noticing
the near-naked men in leather harnesses
on elevated platforms, 
everyone feigning nonchalance in the line.
You look so polished in your white button-down, 
so controlled and untouristy
we don’t struggle getting past the coat check.
Then bursting into the club with you,
the guttural thrum of techno
and how you aren’t afraid to dance, haven’t been
since that boy called you a faggot in the tenth grade.
When you’re turning around to get a drink,
I find myself randomly in awe 
of your sturdiness, wanting to tell you
we came this far
or something equally trite
but instead I let you disappear onto the balcony. 
We grant each other our private fantasies,
knowing only a few can converge,
lines perpendicular for a long second.
That’s how it is, I think, inarticulately,
as you return with a gin and tonic,
the sort of Zen repose I only get
when you’re moving your hips,
about to tell me a joke.
ii.	 We don’t get home until sunrise,
the streets orange-tinted and industrial.
Too riled to sleep, 
we watch a free movie about a teenage drug addict.
We are burrowed on the couch like immobilized cats, grotesque,
not needing beauty. That is exactly what you do for me. 
When I met you, we were chubby, suburban,
poorly dressed, fourteen. 
We didn’t know the first thing about our bodies. 
We ate together every lunchtime.


**The New Journal's Mission and Publication Information**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 55**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The New Journal was founded in 1967, under the following mission statement: “This university has once again reached that stage in history when people 
are talking about the New Yale, presumably to be distinguished from the Old Yale, which in its own day was presumably considered new. Wishing to 
share in this modernity, we have chosen The New Journal as the name for our publication. Besides, things seemed slow around here.”

Today, The New Journal is published five times during the academic year by The New Journal at Yale, Inc. Two thousand five hundred 
copies of each issue are distributed free to members of the Yale and New Haven community. The New Journal is printed by TCI Press, 
Seekonk, Massachusetts; bookkeeping and billing services are provided by Colman Bookkeeping of New Haven. Office Address: 
P.O. Box 3311, New Haven, CT 06515.

While this magazine is published by Yale College students, Yale University is not responsible for its contents. All contents 
Copyright ©2022 by The New Journal at Yale, Inc. All rights reserved. Reproduction either in whole or in part without written 
permission of the publisher and editors in chief is prohibited. Recycle Icon from Flaticon.com.



ANSWER TO PREVIOUS (JANUARY) PUZZLE
PLAY MORE TNJ 
CROSSWORDS ON 
OUR WEBSITE!
P
L
E
A
S
 
R
C
Y
T
H
I
 
M
G
Z
N


ACROSS

1	 Elba of “The Suicide 
Squad”
6	 Precursor to lava
11	 Expensive Persian 
product
14	 2016 animated film 
scored by Lin Manuel 
Miranda
15	 Poet Vuong
16	 Chemical suffix that’s 
also a direction
17	 Like one often 
beaming
18	 Sharp-tasting, as 
sour fruits
19	 Hashtag below a 
nostalgic post
20	 Color on the walls
21	 --
22	 Perform successfully, 
as a finance bro 
might say
23	 Beginning of many 
band names
24	 Crew implement
25	 “And so on and so 
forth”
28	 Click the paperclip 
icon
31	 What Old Testament 
sinners might incur 
from God
32	 DVR devices with a 
distinctive peanut-
shaped remote
34	 Literary orphan 
Cabret
36	 Little piggy, in nursery 
rhyme
37	 Pass time in the 
shower, say
38	 Ending with “pan-” or 
“di-”
40	 Contortionist’s feat
41	 There are 1.609 in a 
mi.
42	 Washington bills
43	 Actors taking solo 
bows
45	 The best is ___ come
47	 “Get what I mean?”, 
slangily
49	 Featuring missing 
from a tube top
51	 Group hunting 
Frankenstein’s 
monster
52	 Classroom temp
55	 Lose at a gambling 
table
56	 Important info for an 
Airbnb guest
59	 --
60	 Common Market 
letters
61	 Soldier getting 
walloped by Asterix 
or Obelix
62	 The “I” of I.P.A.
63	 Snitch
64	 Literary character 
who said “Curioser 
and curioser!”
65	 Material for sharp 
keys?
66	 Sesame, Jump 
and Elm, in short
67	 “Sic, boy!”
68	 “The ___ true for me”


DOWN

1	 “No more for me, 
thanks”
2	 Moolah
3	 Place for archery 
practice
4	 Stopovers for 
travelers
5	 Give a wave
6	 Insectoid enemy to 
Godzilla with a 250-
meter wingspan
7	 Trendy berry
8	 Chap
9	 Irish-born Tony 
winner Patrick
10	 Whichever
11	 Fell back, as an army
12	 Prepares to take off
13	 Ties the knot, so to 
speak
21	 Narrator of the 
Sherlock Holmes 
stories
22	 “Fortunate Son” 
band, for short
24	 --
26	 He. on the periodic 
27	 --
28	 Part of G.P.A.: Abbr.
29	 Climax of an action 
film
30	 What you might do if 
you have an earworm
32	 “Come to dinner!”
33	 Teaches
35	 Faster than a trot 
or canter
37	 Neck-straining NYC 
attractions
39	 One forbidden from 
sports betting, for 
short
40	 Boo
42	 Alley-___
44	 Homes away from 
home for diplomats
46	 Popeye’s anchor, e.g., 
for short
48	 Slim Shady
50	 Like a gym rat, 
52	 Cty abandoned by 
Lot
53	 Sample given to a 
drug tester
54	 Twins usually share 
them, briefly
57	 “You tagged me!”
58	 Confront
59	 Brittney Griner’s org.
60	 --
61	 New use for an old 
shirt
62	 --

**REDACTED**
Puzzle by Jesse Goodman
© The New Journal
March 2023
55


**The Gender & Sexuality Issue**
**Page number(s): 56**

The Gender & 
Sexuality Issue
Danya Blokh is in for a night of 
non-denominational, non-binary hardcore 
at Space Ballroom.  4
Jools Fu writes about violence and masculinity 
in the Singapore Armed Forces.  6
Sasha Carney tells a genealogy of lesbian 
social spaces at Yale.  10
10
Hannah Szabó draws it out with local trans 
advocate Tony Ferraiolo.  28
28

