Publication date: March 19, 1977
Volume: ten
Issue number: two

**MASTHEAD**
- Editor-in-Chief: Corby S. Kummer
- Executive Editor: Jennifer Allen
- Designers: Daphne Chu, Armand LeGardeur
- Publisher: Beatrice H. Mitchell
- Editorial Staff: Lisa Barlow, Aaron Betsky, Owen Brown, Bob Drain, Therese Feng, Webb Keane, Sarah Kreimer, Peter McCormack, Larry Ma, Lori Marian, Mariko Masuoka, Peter Pokalsky, Ann Pollack, Dennis Shasha, Alex Stille, Lucy Chase Williams
- Graphics Staff: Nancy Ayres, Jane Dickinson, Judy Fox, Karen Sideman, Bill Tarbell, Deborah Weiss
- Business Staff: Caroline T. Mitchell, Stephen D. Warner, Susan E. Amron


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- comment: two teachers reveal warmth and understanding; pink triangle causes disturbance; touring by thumb; adrift in the Silver Compendium. - 
- Against Humaneness - Michael Czar
- Go by the Numbers - Corby S. Kummer
- Meanwhile: from a first-year med student - John Freedman
- On Natural Childbirth- A personal account - Emily Procaccini
- Director Reviews News Lackluster Production - GrafMouen
- Stevens in Bloom - Walter Rieman
- The Franchisers - Alex Stille
- Deportment in Ropes - Stephen Graves


**Title: comment**
**Author:**  
**Page number(s): 2**

Trampling
gay rights

A friend of mine on the Yale Film Society staff and I were cordoning off
people who had just arrived to
purchase tickets, so that those who
had arrived early could enter the
auditorium first. This procedure is
hazardous to everyone's health, but is
the only fair way to deal with an
over-flow crowd. I was wearing the
pink triangle I had been given at the
Rally for Gay Rights, pinned to the
lapel of the black tailcoat I had
rented to wear at the Bump stage
show for The Rocky Horror Picture
Show. The crowd that night was
impatient and irritable; people pushed
and shoved as the doors opened
behind us and those on the stairs
began to flood the auditorium.

Someone tried to pick a fight with
the friend who was helping me to
hold people back, threatening to
"break his arm." I heard someone
joke that those on the floor couldn't
get in because they weren't wearing
pink triangles. I smiled, and felt
proud for what I thought we had
accomplished that afternoon. I looked
up to find several tall, strong-looking
males in ski jackets, carrying beer. One
of them stabbed a finger in my
direction and demanded, "Why are
you wearing that thing?"


Remembering the pride with which
a gay friend of mine had responded
to that question I said, "It's a symbol
of my solidarity with my gay brothers
and sisters."

He turned to his friends, then back
to me.

"Are you a dyke?" His voice was a
mixture of disgust and curiosity.

"No. Do I look like one?"

He considered that for a moment.

"Come on now," he insisted, tapping
my arm with his Coors ... "You're a
faggot, aren't you?" His voice was
angrier.

"Only my hairdresser .... " I smiled
feebly, and I nearly lost the grip of
my co-worker when the crowd pushed
into us, impatient to get into Linsly-
Chit.

"Yeah," he shouted, "Yeah, I guess
you are a dyke, aren't you. You're
wearing those boys' clothes there,
huh?" He flicked at the lapel of my
coat. His companions laughed.

"You're wearing boys' clothes too,"
I replied ... "Are you a dyke?"


While hitching
cross-country

We sat for an hour in Salt Lake
City before a beat-up Ford stopped.
It carried three men-a driver, thirty,
and two eighteen-year-old passengers.
"California here we come," they
shouted as we hopped in. They made
it from Minneapolis to Utah by
stopping for hitch-hikers along the
way; they expected a tank of gas in
return for the ride. When the roads
were bare, they went to churches,
begging money for food and gas.

Our new friends were headed for
the West, "the golden land of oppor-
tunity." They had neither friends nor
contacts out there, no money; they
hoped to find work. They got their
tank of gas from us, as well as a can
of stolen transmission fluid from a
gas station in Humboldt, Nev. If their
car made it to the coast, they figured
their problems were solved.

Whimsy or liquor-impaired judg-
ment provoked a spontaneous trip
cross country. A friend and I had
friends and relatives along the way
and a west coast destination. Our
three-week journey started in Syra-
cuse, took us to Los Angeles, and
ended back in New York.

We climbed inside an over-heated
Mercury outside Des Moines. While
waiting at the next exit for the engine
to cool, our driver re-arranged all the
gear he had stashed on the car seats.
He put a knife that was open on the
front seat back into his pocket, and
stuck the rifle on the back seat into
the trunk. I noticed an Air Force
shirt stowed in the trunk.

"I've been transferred," he said,
"from military police where I can
carry a gun, to the mechanics corps
where I can't. They caught me with a
four-shot derringer, one with the
serial number filed off. They didn't
like that too much, so they took it
away and sent me to another post."

He came from a tough section of
Chicago, so liked guns; he carried one
to protect himself on the streets.

"Some people get off on cars," he
said, "I happen to get off on guns."

Some drivers never stop for hitch-
hikers, a few always stop, and some
drivers make a decision on the spot.
We geared ourselves to that third
crucial category. Playing for the
appearance-conscious crowd, we con-
sidered our image first. Rejecting the
post-mortem hippie option, we set off
with short hair and neat clothes.
Seediness would get us nowhere.


**Title: Against Humaneness**
**Author: Michael Czar**
**Page number(s): 3**

The Trouble with Law School


How can you kick a law school
whose dean will join your table at
Naples' and listen with good humor
as you ridicule the "telephone-book
imagination" of a young faculty member? And when that dean, with a
more serious good humor, will also
discuss his frustrations in trying to
keep up with developments in his
field? How can you be ungrateful
when the dean of student affairs will
listen to your reasons for wanting to
re-schedule exams, and offer to proctor them himself on a weekend? At
how many other law schools can you
knock on most professors' doors and
be given much more than the time of
day?

Yale is an enlightened place. Student
representatives sit with faculty
members on committees for educational planning, admissions policy,
and student discipline. The course
offerings are a model of social commitment. Alongside Bankruptcy and
Antitrust, you can find such courses
as Equality and the Law, Legal
Regulation of the Biomedical Sciences, and Lawyers as Change Agents.
In addition to these riches, the law
school offers still more educational
flexibility: joint degree programs,
clinical programs in neighborhood
civil legal assistance, prison legal
services, and mental hospital legal
services. It even offers full-credit
intensive semesters away from New
Haven at the Center for Law and
Social Policy, the Vera Institute for
Justice, and almost any other place
you can find a non-paying niche.

Then there are the formal, semi-
formal, and informal student organizations: Moot Court, Barristers'
Union; Environmental Law Association, Yale Association of International
Law· Law Women's Association,
Black Law Students Union; law
school football, law school basketball,
law school baseball. This is just part
of the wealth. Only someone wrapped
in his own cloud could not find a
place in the sun at Yale Law School.

It is not easy, then, to make any
criticism of the law school intelligible
to others. I admit that I don't know
of any improvements in the structure
of the law school that could change
my criticisms. The collective activity
of students and faculty-not the institution alone- also constitutes our
"legal education." The listening,
prodding, parroting, and showmanship in the classroom; the earnest
discussions in the hallway afterwards,
sometimes with the corralled professor, the endless library whisperings
about the "fair" or "equitable," the
"allocation of risk and costs," "conceptual frameworks," "distinctions
without difference," "irrebuttable presumptions"-this is part of the
process.

The library whisperings metamorphose into the constant babble of the
dining hall. Serious-minded intensity
of effort, hardly checked by the hours
in a day, is lavished upon student
activities. After all, it is within the
power of Yale Legislative Services to
draft statutes that will overrule the
Burger Court on defendants' rights,
harness the CIA, and guarantee due-
process hearings for disciplined grade-
schoolers. And the Moot Court prize
case at the end of each term always
seems to promise "landmark significance." And your humor--don't forget it, but sharpen it into legal
humor. Yet do we really want to hear
again about respiratory estoppel as an
appropriate remedy for unconscionable fools, or about third-party suicide as the solution to an annoying
roommate?

It all seems a process, early initiated
and continually accelerating in
the course of three years, of "being
conformed"- and then striving to
conform, and helping one another to
conform. One acquires "professional"
motivation and values, even appropriate "personal" (if a person remains to
attach them to) speech, manner, and
drives. This process continues despite
the richness and flexibility of the
institution and despite the oh-so-
interesting backgrounds of students,
from Peace Corps in Africa to theology training in England. It continues despite the diversity of outward
direction, whether it be radical criminal lawyering, neighborhood storefronting, public sectoring, or that
traditional failure of the imagination,
the law firm.

The institution is distinguished
from the experience as a whole, which
I would distinguish from the individual and decent human beings each
of us knows. One professor must have
seemed the "grand old man" for the
past thirty years and will probably
remain in his prime for another
thirty. He likes to introduce his discussion of jus tertii by calling it "one
of those black tags that lawyers use to
distinguish themselves from human
beings." With obvious glee, he will
explain that he "invented" a part of
assignment law by coming across a
couple of cases "quite by accident"
one day and including them in his
casebook. He does all this with no
care for adulation, with no high and
serious conviction that the legal world
could not have done without him.
Rather, his self-amusement intimates
that his life's work is at once an
advance in the legal world and,
something of a peculiarity in the face
of everyday life.

Another professor has found his
way to Yale through the upper
reaches of the Justice Department
and the corporate world. He can
speak with reserved conviction about
equality and fairness in the context of
political and civil rights. He seems
not to see legal injustices that ought
to be legally righted, not to see rights
in conflict as the business of life, not
to conceive of the good in the just




**Title: Go by the Numbers**
**Author: Corby S. Kummer**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
' 
) 
---· 
4 
Go by the Numbers 
by Corby S. Kummer 
Yale Law School is harder to get 
into than any other in the country. 
Incoming classes number 165 from 
3500-4000 applications yearly, in com-
parison to Harvard's 500 from 8000. 
A recent survey in New York, how-
ever, rated Harvard over Yale in 
prestige and chances for the b~st jobs. 
But it's nicer to go to Yale than 
Harvard, students and faculty say, 
because of Yale's size and less ob-
viously harried atmosphere. Other 
touted advantages like the non-
competitive Law Journal (in order to 
work on the school review elsewhere, 
. students must rank high in their 
classes) make life less strained. Did 
the good things I'd heard about Yale 
mean that creative, interesting people 
went there? To find out how classes 
are selected, I interviewed five past 
and present members of the admis-
sions committee. 

Yale is unique in that its own 
faculty rather than a trained admis-
sions staff reads student folders. The 
Dean of Admissions reads through 
each ftle as it arrives. He culls 1000-
1200 over the course of the year for a 
panel of twelve readers, who rate the 
folders from one to five (a rating of 
five is most desirable) and send them 
on. I wanted to know which parts of 
a student's ftle the readers found most 
important, and whether they looked 
for their own characteristics in appli-
cants as they rated folders. 

Corby S. Kummer decided against 
applying to law school after writing 
this piece for David Papke's seminar 
on the American Legal Profession. 
Susan Hanley (no names in this 
article are real, at the subjects' re-
quest), assistant to Dean Williams, is 
the one woman on the present com-
mittee, but does not feel she is a 
token. "Out of five members on the 
panel one's a woman and one's a 
black. That's the way it worked out. 
Everyone would make it on his own 
merit." 

Hanley is tall and thin. She smokes 
a lot and nervously twists her long 
black hair. Still, her manner is pro-
fessionally poised; she's accustomed 
to fielding questions, especially from 
students. Her background makes her 
more sympathetic to many students 
than most other readers. She went to 
Wisconsin as an undergraduate, and 
took a Ph.D. at Yale. "I look at my 
friends from college and see how 
much less luck they've had, although 
they're as good as I am," she says. 
"Students shouldn't be disadvantaged 
by where they are, although the other 
readers are more inclined to adjust 
their judgments according to under-
graduate institutions. The best grade 
point average (GPA) anyone can do 
anywhere is a 4.0. You don't know 
what they would have done else-
where. 

"It's reasonable that readers like 
things in students that they see in 
themselves. I have a higher degree of 
empathy for people who have done 
things I have. The same thing must 
happen to other readers." Class presi-
dents and the like don't impress her-
and never have-she hadn't partici-
pated in extra-curricular activities as 
an undergradute. "They're not likely 
to add skills or experience. I'm more 
responsive to people changing careers 
than if I hadn't changed them myself, 
and contemplate changing again." 

Hanley, who has taught history at 
Amherst, hopes to continue in college 
administration. 

Hanley's unusual background ac-
counts for her description of the law 
school as "interdisciplinarian." She 
refutes the image of the law students 
as corporate lawyers in training. "Stu-
dents select Yale for its flexibility and 
non-competitiveness," she claims. 
"They are motivated and self-disci-
plined." Earlier she described them as 
"interesting, hardworking, and grown-
up." 

Hanley took her present Yale job at 
31, 
years ago. "I wondered if I 
could enjoy the company of younger 
people. It turned out to be wonderful 
and intellectual. We talked shop end-
lessly. Nowadays the students get 
even better, I hear, in their capacity 
to understand, quickness and ability 
to relate creatively to material. The 
faculty is pleased, although their 
orientation is unfortunately and omi-
nously toward the academic." 

Lively and seemingly tireless, 
Hanley tours for Yale. She insists that 
Yale should recruit to "improve the 
fit" between student and school, al-
though she admits that every school is 
trapped into traveling because of 
nationwide law-school panels from 
which they cannot be absent. Because 
she is not a faculty member, Hanley 
pays more attention than they do to 
folders, and devotes more thought to 
the admissions process. She wishes 
that readers would meet as a group. 
"We should find out what values we 
share and to what extent, and give 
more attention to marginal cases." 

One of her jobs is to read the folders 
of those who were narrowly rejected, 
to see if she strongly disagrees with 
any of the decisions. 

"The ideal reader would look for 
what I do," she says. "I try to be the 
best I can be." Hanley looks for 
originality, variety, the "flash" of 
creativity in a student. If all the 
readers were like her, the committee 
might be ideal. But her background is 
far different from that of other 
readers, so her ideas of a good 
student are atypical. Compassion does 
not pervade the Law School faculty. 

A poster on the door of Ivan 
Gilner's sparse, cold office pictures a 
roaring lion: "In our business the 
customer is king," it proclaims. De-
spite its hired-gun implications, Gilner 
says he quit practice after six and one 
half years "because I decided I wanted 
to write and teach more than I 
wanted to make money." Gilner an-
swers questions quickly and deliber-
ately. 

"You must go by the numbers on a 
file. Their objectivity is their beauty," 
he says. "Letters of recommendation 
are of equal impressiveness, which is 
to say they are equally irrelevant. All 
geese become swans. Essays seldom 
make a difference on the plus side. 
They show a profile of interests and 
the ability to put together words. The 
interests can be feigned and change in
The New Journal f March 19, 1977 
any case. Facility with words can also 
be feigned, or assisted. The student 
writing an essay feels called upon to 
reach for the loftiest sentiments he 
can express. These are not relevant 
criteria." 

Gilner does rely on the quality of 
the undergraduate college to help him 
differentiate, as do all the other 
readers I saw. He pays little attention 
to the specific curriculum: "I'm in-
clined to suspect the so-called pre-
legal courses rather than the humani-
ties," he says in a rare moment of 
unconventionality. Time spent away 
from school counts for little, too. 
"The .simple passage of time does not 
mean. improvement." 

In order to contrast the typical 
class of his day with today's, I ask 
Gilner if he respected members of his 
own law class (Harvard, 1950). "There 
is no human being I don't respect," he 
replies sharply, then continues in 
lawyer-like fashion, "I'll re-
define your question to make it say 
what you meant." He goes on to say 
that the bottom of classes has im-
proved, but he likes the classes "no 
more, no less. We waste less time 
working with sub-marginal students." 

I ask if he likes the character of 
recent classes. "You don't mean per-
sonal character," he corrects me, al-
though that's just what I meant. "You 
mean statistical mix, which creates 
the class group. By and large it is 
more interesting and provocative to 
teach interesting students." 

The only thing Gilner cares about 
in admissions, he says, is to get the 
"top ofthe applicant pool." Perhaps 
Hanley had him in mind when she 
said the faculty's tendency was omi-
nously toward the academic. "Given 
the chance I would change the admis-
sions process, but I won't tell you 
how or why." On the way out I 
apologize for any questions he might 
have considered rude. "Your ques-
tions were o.k.," he says. ••you 
pressed as hard as you could. I didn't 
answer when I found the question 
inappropriate." 

Charles Lanford, Jr. seems a radi-
cal by comparison, although he is 
quite conservative. Of everyone I 
interviewed he had the most Wall 
Street-like office. The oriental carpet 
was lush; the Federal desk elegant. 
Lanford's manner is businesslike, full 
of straightforward common sense and 
full also of underlying elitism. He 
expects the best, and knows he'll get 
it. 

Instead of reading the folders of 
those who didn't quite make it, 
Lanford reads those of students to 
whom Dean Williams has given his 
highest rating. Students given a five 
are virtually guaranteed admission; 
Lanford reads their flies to see if he 
disagrees. Like Gilner he blends skep-
ticism with empiricism, but he pays 
closer attention than Gilner does to 
the student's choice of courses. "I 
look at the guts in the transcript," he 
says, .. or look for something funny in 


--- Page 5 ---

The New Journal I March 19, 1977 
it that suggests the student isn't that 
red-hot. The LSA T [law school board 
score] is the only objective piece of 
evidence we have. GPAs aren't that 
reliable. You know they're strong if 
from Yale or Harvard. 

"I view courses like History of Art 
skeptically. If you see something like 
bongo drums, you don't pay attention 
to an A in the course. Things like 
German and Calculus are hard. Eng-
lish is always easy- 1 could get A's in 
English courses any time I wanted. 
Grade inflation makes it hard to tell 
who has what. We hate pass-fail 
courses. The trend back to a more 
stratified system is a good thing." 
("I'm on the conservative side," he 
admits.) 

Nonetheless Lanford claims he 
looks for "something unusual" He 
calls letters of recommendation "unre-
liable. They often hide dullness." He 
has little patience for essays on why a 
student wants to be a lawyer- "it gets 
to be one hundred thousand times 
uplifting society. Your eyes glaze 
over. We took a student last year 
whose GPA was a 3.4. He was a blue-
collar worker who'd worked his way 
through college. He'll be a good 
alumnus. If we had more places to 
play with, we could admit more 
people who hauled up their socks 
after their first year, or people who've 
done interesting things. You know, a 
few more oddballs. Eccentrics often 
do well here. One tried to save New 
Haven 
· 
" 

Lanford is pleased with incoming 
classes. "We've 'eliminated' the bot-
tom half of the class statistically, as 
the administration keeps saying. 
We've always been more selective 
than ~a~ard [Lanford's alma mater], 
who elimmated a third of the class 
after the first year by failing them. I 
don't see any dismal conformity here. 
A few students are lemons. An ideal 
first year class wouldn't include the 
five or six goofs we get. 

It's normal to want to duplicate 
yourself unconsciously, I guess," he 
says. He later adds that he likes 
people who have taken a year off, 
because he did. His practicality in-
cludes rationalizing the system of 
having faculty readers instead of a 
full-time admissions staff. "We think 
it makes a difference. The candidate 
feels he gets more attention. Faculty 
reading is good with alumni children 
too." The last point may be the most 
important. "Other than that, random 
selection might give as good a class," 
he says. 

Lanford isn't cold, exactly, but he's 
very businesslike. "I can't think of a 
job I'd like better," he says of 
teachinj. His idea of teacher-student 
relationships corresponds to his 
reason for having liked Harvard: "If 
my teachers left me alone, I'd leave 
them alone." He still thinks "it's more 
pleasant" at Yale than at other 
schools, although he will readily list 
ten other schools that would give as 
good an education. 

"I want good students who will be 
good lawyers," he says. Lanford dis-
likes working on admissions, how-
ever. "I got sweet-talked into reading 
folders. You do need a good mix of 
readers, though. Otherwise the class 
might be stodgier-or nuttier." As I 
leave, he says, "They say Yale and 
Harvard skim off the cream. I like to 
think we skim off the butter." 

Jack Crain, too, is proud of Yale's 
classes. He was head of the admis-
sions committee for several years. At 
first he spot-checked those who were 
rejected. "I didn't fmd anyone who 
had the remotest chance of getting 
in." Crain is brash. He loudly hails 
people who pass by the hall, and 
paces around the room ("I've been 
sitting around all day.") His office 
suggests a locker room, with its 
industrial furniture and scraps of 
paper taped up in odd places. Crain 
strengthens this impression with his 
constant bantering and his coach's 
drivingly frank manner. 

Crain wants a good team made up 
of "top students." For fear of losing 
students to Harvard he moved up 
admission time during his administra-
tion for the best candidates. To find 
out who was really tops, Crain wrote 
to colleges asking for their grading 
curves. "We'd check a Yale 3. 75 
against a Stanford one. Well, it was a 
lot easier to get that GPA from 
Stanford than from Yale, so the 
number of Stanford people we ac-
cepted decreased. We had to explain 
this to the readers, or they might 
make horrendous mistakes . 

.. The problem is fmding out who's 
really brilliant. You can't tell from the 
file. One Yale student was widely 
regarded as brilliant. We had to turn 
him down because another student 
had a better record. His college 
master was angry, but once we 
showed him the records he said he'd 
do the same thing. The student had a 
few bad grades- Bs. A few too many 
Bs among the As can ruin you. More 
grade differentiation would help. I 
mean, how are we supposed to 
know?" 

Like other readers, Crain discounts 
letters. "The paternalistic faculty can't 
bear to be frank, and competes for 
superlatives." Essays? "Some are il-
literate. They can expose the candi-
date immediately. In general they're 
not worth a lot, just 250 words of 
what the candidate thinks the reader 
wants to hear. I know of kids who've 
lied about their interests just to con-
form with fads. I don't put much 
faith in attached papers, either. One 
student plagiarized an article of mine 
and didn't even give me credit in his 
bibliography." 

Crain doesn't agree with tl)e reader-
replication theory. "You have too 
much trouble trying to differentiate 
between the candidates to worry 
about looking for people like your-
self. Students all look so similar. The 
thing you seek most is academic 
potential," Crain says, echoing Gilner. 
"That's the hardest thing to manu-
facture in a file. Other characteristics 
they suppose we're looking for can be 
manufactured easily. 

"The minority policy changes with 
each dean," Crain says. "The present 
process may look like mine. I said 
that we should take students accord-
ing to their academic potential. My 
system," he says pointedly, " was 
good." 

The present Dean is Ted Williams. 
He's the only black on the committee, 
but his position of authority may 
make him count for two. The black 
and the woman on this committee are 
the workhorses, the people who do 
the admissions scutwork. Williams 
must read each folder from beginning 
to end, then decide whether or not to 
pass it on to the other readers. "I 
don't eliminate people. I look for 
people." 

Williams keeps an extremely tight 
schedule. He values his close rapport 
with students (he is in charge of 
student activities), who pop in and 
out of his office as we talk. 

An unusual painting opposite 
Williams' desk, painted by a student, 
shows him as an oracle-like figure to 
whom students offer up diplomas. In 
a photograph over his desk he strides


--- Page 6 ---

---
6 --
The New Journal 1 March 19, 1977 
forward to shake hands with Lyndon 
Johnson. A label underneath com-
memorates the date. He seems a 
young man impressed with the prog-
ress he has made, although it's bard 
to tell where he wants his ambition 
and energy to lead him. 

.. I like someone who's tested him-
self completely, who's stretched his 
limits of thinking," he says, crumpling 
unwanted mail as we talk. "Someone 
who's had the courage to take chal-
lenging courses, although he may 
suffer from it. Someone who takes 
organic chemistry, for instance, al-
though he's not a pre-med. He tackles 
bard courses to get a quality educa-
tion." Williams strove for the same 
thing. He went to college in Iowa and 
came to Yale Law. "A splendid indi-
vidual can come from a poor school," 
be says- adding that expectations for 
achievement will be higher than for 
an Ivy League student. 

Though Williams must read more 
why-I-want-to-be-a-lawyer essays than 
anyone else, he maintains that the 
essay is important. "It's the one thing 
the applicant does for us, and it can 
become a point of distinction. The 
faculty generally shares this view," he 
says optimistically. 

Like everyone, Williams stressed 
the differences among Yale law stu-
dents . .. They're as different as they 
can get, if you expect them to study 
in the same room. Diversity is the 
class's strength. Students are alike 
only in that they're able." Or competi-
tive? Still, Thomas says Yale is more 
"congenial" than other schools- .. but 
you lose none of the intellectual rigor. 
It's a more relaxed place to live." 

The limited number of students in 
each class frustrates Williams, but he 
says "I can overlook my annual dis-
appointments when people I want 
don't get in. I can take the abuse I 
get. It's not like we're turning them 
away. I can't feel very so.-ry for 
someone who must goJ to Harvard." 

.. Relations with students keep me 
going," Williams says. He is unlike 
the faculty readers, who seem not to 
want to see students except in the 
classroom. They are in fact remark-
ably impersonal and academic. They 
want hard brilli2nce. Gilner and 
Crain concentrate on statistics; Lan-
ford calls anyone the least bit uncon-
ventional a .. goof" or, euphemisti-
caJJy, "eccentric." 

The members of the admissions 
staff take a more personal approach, 
but it may be in vain. The lack of 
communication among readers keeps 
alive such iJLusions as Williams' (and 
Hanley's) thinking the essay counts 
for a lot. Their humanity can make 
little difference in the end: they are 
outnumbered. 

The faculty members know what 
they want. Admissions work for them 
is an incidental annoyance. The ad-
missions staff members work harder; 
their turnover rate is high because the 
job is usually one stop on the way to 
something else. The work is too 
frenzied for anyone to last long. "I 
kid my colleagues to glamorize it," 
Williams says ... But trip after trip 
makes me sympathize with political 
campaigners. The work gets hard." 

Williams pauses, looks at the 
ceiling. "Still," he says.


**Title: Meanwhile: from a first-year med student**
**Author: John Freedman**
**Page number(s): 6**

Meanwhile: from a first-year rned student 
by John Freedman 
It is the first day at Yale medical 
school and time to meet my cadaver. 
Eighty-three years old and her flesh is 
like rhino leather. She lies pickled in 
formaldehyde, a corpulent octo-
genarian who, in an act of love, gave 
her body to us. My knife is poised for 
that unkindest cut. It's not a person 
anyway. It's a stiff. Wait-even in the 
cold gray eye of death I spy life. I 
must quit this necropolis. 

John Freedman is a first-year student 
at the Yale Medical School. 

I walk down the hall and am 
flanked by a gallery of little ghouls, 
bottled fetuses whose genes turned 
traitor or whose primal sea soured. 
As I look at these unfinished crea-
tures, rudely stamped, I see an ele-
ment of pure humanity, of life and 
beauty and potential even in this 
degenerate flesh. Embryology aside, I 
wonder what has happened here. 

I step into the Intensive Care unit 
and watch the machines flash and 
hear them beep and click and keep 
people alive. Consciousness is a 
luxury here. The colors seem strange. 
The noises and smells, even the 
doctors and nurses seem strange. Now 
I understand: this is an antechamber 
of the afterworld, a place where life 
and death meet and mingle. 

I'm in the Emergency Room on a 
Saturday night. The gods are acting 
like wanton boys again: to smash a 
face has been their sport tonight. I 
hope the surgeons can un-smash it. 
The little boy who's been charred so 
bad his flesh is falling off in chunks-
can anybody help him? Yes, thank 
God. But it is hard knowing that I 
cannot help him, not now. It is the 
lot of the ftrst year medical student to 
bear witness and be unable to help. 

I am told that what weighs on me 
now is inconsequential compared with 
what is in store. This seems logical. 
But beginnings are difficult, and it 
seems that what I see and feel now 
cuts so deep because I have not yet 
developed the emotional armor that 
comes only with time. I wonder if 
armor is what I really want. I think 
of the Pendragonian surgeon who 
drags a string of souls behind him, 
and I shudder. 

In the first year at medical school 
we have little time to think. What 
seems to be the central dogma of the 
first year curriculum has a strange 
pedagogical twist: learn the facts now, 
think later. In devoting ourselves to 
amassing information, we supposedly 
acquire that depth and breadth of 
knowledge that will make us great 
thinkers later. 

No matter that it is boring and 
tiresome, that there is precious little 
subtlety in what we do and no more 
than a smattering of synthesis- other 
than the bio-kind. We all love to hate 
the first year, but its very non-
intellectuality is an incentive, for we 
bear that next year will be different. 
The strategy that failed Hamlet is the 
right one for us: the readiness is all. 

Nothing is so deceptive or alluring 
as a good surface. In terms of careers, 
the surface is our image of a particu-
lar profession, or our idea of what a 
professional does. This, I admit, drew 
me to medicine. Through reading, 
summer work in hospitals, and con-
versations with physicians, I sought to 
find out what the profession was all 
about. I see now that it is impossible 
to understand from the outside. To 
become a medical student is to pene-
trate the patina of image and plunge 
beneath the surface into that sul-
phurous and often bitter stuff which 
is medical training. 

The road ahead will be difficult. 
Tenacity will be of primary impor-
tance. It is a tenacity which will not 
come easily, one that cannot be eked 
out of a hypertrophied super-ego. 
Selfishness will not help; thoughts of 
money or prestige or preferment wax 
trivial in the face of life and death. A 
good part of the spectrum of human 
anguish will become my stock and 
trade. I feel now that only a deep and 
abiding love for the science and art of 
healing wiJJ make what I will go 
through worthwhile. 

**Title: Against Humaneness**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Against Humaneness 
(continued from page three) 
instance as legal justice. I suppose he 
just has a human eye. In the inevi-
table complexity of good and bad, he 
sees the unnecessary bad which one 
can help alleviate. He believes that in 
some of this the law can play a part. 
And he stands ready to play his part, 
non-legal as readily as legal. 

A third-year student at the Uni-
versity of Chicago Law School asked 
me whether it was the students or the 
faculty who defined the character of 
Yale's collective experience. I an-
swered quickly that it was us, the 
students. He was surprised. He 
pointed me to an essay by Duncan 
(Funlcy Dunlc) Kennedy, then a Yale 
law student and now a Harvard pro-
fessor, in the Yale Review of Law and 
Social A ction (Vol. I, No. 1, Spring 
1970). It was entitled "How the Law 
School Fails: A Polemic." 

Kennedy spoke primarily against 
the arrogant hostility of teachers 
toward students and the emotional 
harm they inflicted. To him, the 
faculty defined the character of the 
law school- and much of it was bad. 
He wrote: 

One of the first and most lasting 
impressions that many students have 
of the law school is that teachers are 
either astoundingly intellectually self-
confident or just plain smug. Many of 
them seem to their students to be 
preening themselves before their 
classes. In most cases each gesture 
seems to say: 'I am brilliant. I am 
famous in the only community that 
matters. I am doing the most difficult 
and desirable thing in the world. and 
doing it well; I am being a Law 
Professor.' 

Kennedy further complained that "a 
vast amount of destructive energy 
does in fact go into the teaching of 
law as presently practiced." He ad-
mitted the students' complicity in the 
creation of the law school atmo-
sphere, but believed that .. most im-
pressive of all is the group's sub-
mission. . . . They accept the im-
portance of what they are about 
largely without question, and lay . 
themselves bare to the tender meretes 
of the teacher with an astonishing 
humility." 

My Chicago friend thought that 
Yale Law School must indeed have 
progressed. Kennedy's polemic of 
1970 seemed to him still true of 
Chicago but very different from my 
criticism of law school. No one I 
knew here had even beard of the 
essay. It seemed strange then, and still 
does now, that the essay should have 
been held as Truth by a Chicago 
student but totally ignored at Yale. 
Had Yale become that enlightened. or 
did we just stop caring, doubting? 

I think Yale Law School bas 
changed. Of course we have some 
from the Yale Law School Bulletin 
faculty members who stand out as 
prima donnas, a few others as bril-
liant bores. We even have a con-
tender for "the second best third-rate 
legal mind" and a couple of would-be 
sardonic wits. Most students, how-
ever, would not view the faculty as 
defining any character for the internal 
life of the law school, let alone a 
hostile one. The faculty has receded 
and the students have stepped forth 
into dominance. Our aggressive energy 
now charges the atmosphere. 

We preen ourselves in self- impor-
tance. We declare, more loudly than 
any teacher, that the display of one's 
own talent, the blank assertion of self, 
and the unrelenting never-doubting 
are the stuff of a lawyer. To deaden 
the character, to strip the personality, 
and to hew the unencumbered talent-
that is the .. legal education" for which 
we are responsible. To be a lawyer is 
to want such talent as will defeat that 
of others. All has been staked on 
talent, and all will be bargained away 
for it. 

Is all this just aesthetic repulsion at 
the collective experience of law 
school? I am not sure. I sometimes 
wonder whether the increasingly per-
vasive rule of law in society isn't also 
a growing tyranny by the likes of 
lawyers nurtured at Yale. I wonder if 
there can still be any ideal in the law 
that is recognized by lawyers as some-
thing outside and greater than them-
selves. 

Maybe there really was an ideal of 
divinely ordained natural law in the 
middle ages. Maybe nineteenth-
century common-law lawyers did 
believe in an evolution and preserva-
tion of values in an historical ideal of 
the law. Today we at law school seem 
to appeal to nothing less than a sense 
of justice, no greater than the ~wye~ 
in whom it is found. The new tdeal 
stands or falls with the lawyers them-
selves. It is not something to which 
they aspire. It is an expression of 
themselves. 

If contrary to legal inclination, we 
can 'separate the quality of justice 
from the successful assertion of a 
talented lawyer's sense of justice, then 
we might see that quality is dependent 
more on the simple decency of la~­
yers as human beings than on thetr 
talents as lawyers. It is a cliche to say 
that talent must serve decency; then 
why must the world seem topsy-turvy 
at Yale? 

In the course of our "legal educa-
tion" something happens to that sense 
of justice. As one teacher told an 
insulted class at the end of last year, 
he could see no passion in his 
students. Presumably, we are urged to 
serve with passion within the la~, and 
to commit our skill to that serv•'7·. In 
fact we have the dry lust of •'?'1~•­
tive talent. Such blind, exclustve un-
portance is placed ~n the develop-
ment of talent that m a crazy tum-
around of common moral sense we 
I fear sometimes that it is this 
perverted private motivation, multi-
plied on a grand scale among the 
graduates of law schools where talent 
runs high, that is responsible fo~ the 
spread of law. Yes, law should hav_e 
something to say about the allocatton 
of scarce medical resources and about 
norms for human experimentation in 
the biomedical sciences. And, no 
doubt, the hue and cry of environ-
mental lawyers is welcomed by those 
who earlier stood without legal allies 
against the Alaska wolf kill, highway 
mazes, and sewer sprawl. But must 
law presume to incorporate within 
itself all fields of knowledge? Must we 
flatten all aspects of human existence 
into a legal conceptual framework? 
Can't law serve without acquiring? 

I cannot accept law's claim to be 
queen of the sciences. I am not 
entirely persuaded that public schools 
ought to handle the discipline of fifth-
graders with a "due process model" 
(notice of cause, opportunity for a 
bearing, representation by formal or 
informal counsel, and so on). Even if 
such a model were appropriate, I am 
certain that it would come nowhere 
near the essential concerns of educa-
tion. Similarly, I accept that there are 
unavoidable legal questions to face 
when family, friends, and physicians 
exercise responsibility over a chroni-
cally ill patient. But I refuse to 
presume that, by defming legal duty 
and freedom with respect to that 
patient, we have grasped the impon-
derables of life and death and estab-
lished human morality. 

It can be countered that one will 
never bear lawyers claim such things 
in so many words. But the unspoken 
assumption of self-importance gives 
the lie to this. Acquisitive talent 
pervades endless conferences on "La_w 
and Education" and "Law and Medt-
cine" as well as the stream of trendy 
articles on the "legal implications" of 
this or that. Even a casual conversa-
tion prompted by a news story invites 
the acquisitive ploy: Attach the legal 
phrases, work the words around, and 
subject another piece of life to your 
knowledge. Because you've learned to 
do this act so well in the law, you 
come to believe that law is worthier 
than all else. One comes to believe 
that because he can do it well, law 
deserves to formulate the questions, 
elicit the answers, and state the truth 
of life in all its fullness. 

We have spread the word well. 
Bright young hordes of college gradu-
ates are now applying to law school. 
"I must understand law to be an 
effective urban planner." .. Journalism 
is my goal, but law is so involved in 
everything." "Of course English litera-
ture goes to the finer aspects of life-
and I will be as refined as ever in my 
private interests- but I want a larger 
audience than a classroom full of 
students." Our new lawyers seem to 
have started the conforming process 
before entering the door. While urban 
planning, journalism, and litera~ure 
may fall by the wayside, they wdl not 
be disappointed by law school. They 
will learn the skill to match their 
acquisitive impulse. 

I have been told that any pro-
fessional group, scientists or aca-
demics for example, can be arrogant 
and narrow, and that lawyers are no 
worse than the rest. Many of us have 
heard dire warnings about reduc-
tionist science vanquishing the bu-
7 
manities. Science would leave nothing 
sacred; it would destroy all mystery, 
would dismiss what could not be 
explained or quantified. This, bow-
ever, is precisely what seems different 
about science. It does reject or ignore 
some things. While it may lay claim 
to all real knowledge, it will do so by 
excluding what does not fit into its 
world and not be colonizing other 
fields of learning. 

Law, on the other band, would be 
the ugly mirror of all life. Lawyers 
would do what no philosopher, physi-
cist, or poet would feel himself fully 
capable of doing; they would claim to 
respond to the entire multitude of 
most basic human concerns. Apart 
from all other professions, law pre-
sumes to speak the language of 
humaneness with the voice of skill. 

Some might say this essay only 
echoes the fear that .. The last tempta-
tion is the greatest treason: To do the 
right deed for the wrong reason." If 
law is meant to do some good- and 
there is enough unnecessary social evil 
to last a millenium of lawyers' lives-
then the successful assertion of justice 
must be more important than the 
possibly venal motivation of lawyers. 
The purity of law as intellectually 
conceived will not accomplish what 
humanly motivated lawyers can. 

I can only reply, suggestively, that 
relying on one's successful talent 
hardly seems the way to assure that 
justice, not some slant verbal form of 
it will win out. I don't thinlc that we 
' 
. 
can fall back on the hired-gun tbests, 
even if we dress it up into the 
"adversary process." To admit that 
the brightest arguments ought to be 
advanced from each side does not 
assure that the decision-maker, him-
self trained in the pursuit of talent, 
will have the humility not to blind 
himself with the vision of the new, 
striking law he might write in his 
decision. To look at our "legal educa-
tion" will not answer where be could 
have learned to see the complexity of 
good and bad as something more 
than a challenge to his analytic 
powers. 

Outside the glamorous context of 
trials and appeals lie the broader 
fields where the likes of Yale gradu-
ates, I bear, become touted makers of 
policy. In business, government, and 
increasingly in the third sector of 
non-profit institutions, we must ac-
knowledge the great opportunity to 
ally the thrill of talent with effective 
power- without the pretense of the 
adversary process. 

Both within and without the law, I 
wonder whether we will espouse some 
just causes not for their justice but 
because they are fashionable arenas 
for the display of talent. I see no 
assurance that just causes will always 
be the fashionable ones. I wonder if 
we would buck fashion more if our 
"legal education" bad not let us so . 
easily bury decency under accomplish-
ment. And even if just causes do 
always remain fashionable, even if 
lawyers are selflessly motivated, even 
if they succeed astoundingly, how 
much humaneness will we aU lose by 
having justice in our grasp and the 
simple good gone from our imagina-
tion? 


<br>

**Title: On Natural Childbirth -A personal account**
**Author: Emily Procaccini**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

There we were. Six women lying on 
the floor breathing in and out in 
rhythm. And there alone sat my hus-
band, watching us all with incredulity. 
"These are exercises? My child will be 
the result of these?" I could hear him 
saying. It was hard to believe that the 
exercises we were taught would help 
labor, but my husband and I dutifully 
followed the six classes in preparation 
for childbirth. When labor began, I 
was grateful that we had attended. 

My husband had asked only one 
thing of me: "Please don't wake me 
up at two in the morning to go to the 
hospital!" It seemed an easy request, 
but at around one o'clock the con-
tractions came at five minute inter-
vals. We bad been told not to phone 
the doctor until this spacing con-
tinued for an hour. I lay there, 
breathing in through the nose and out 
through the mouth-quick, short 
breaths high in the chest- until an 
hour had passed. They had not 
slackened. At exactly two I woke my 
husband. His first response was, "Are 
you sure they're contractions?" I had 
to admit I wasn't sure; I'd never had 
them before. We called the doctor to 
report, and to ask what contractions 
should feel like to my husband. He 
replied that during them my stomach 
should become so hard my husband 
could bit his hand against it and have 
it bounce off readily. We left for the 
hospital at 2:30. 

At the hospital I was taken to a 
small labor room, given a hospital 
gown, and placed on a movable bed. 
Emily Procaccini recently gave birth to 
Piero Procaccini. 

My husband was allowed to stay with 
me during the entire labor and de-
livery to help me remain relaxed and 
calm during labor. A machine next to 
the bed measured and recorded the 
baby's heartbeat and the contractions. 
The nurse strapped around my waist 
a belt attached to it. For a few hours 
my husband and I amused ourselves 
with the machine, watching the con-
tractions reach a peak on the paper 
graph and then subside. 

Then the nurse announced that my 
contractions had slowed down. In-
stead of becoming more frequent- as 
they should-they were coming at 
seven minute intervals. A resident 
doctor came in to break my bag of 
water; as she did, I felt a gush of 
warm water spread over my legs and 
the bed. Being in labor was like being 
in a submarine, plunged into the 
depths, and yet being able to hear 
and see with a periscope the whole 
world above sea level. The room 
seemed enormous and at times 
crowded with people. The nurses• 
insistence seemed overly forceful, 
their personalities excessively stub-
born. 

I still did only short, light breath-
ing. I occasionally sucked on ice 
chips, since one's mouth dries in labor 
because the mouth constantly 
breathes. A new nurse came on duty 
and decided that the belt monitor for 
the machine was not recording the 
baby's heartbeat well enough. The 
resident reached inside to attach an 
electronic clip to the head and the 
heartbeat bleep on the machine went 
back into action. 

My contractions began to get 
stronger and more frequent. I began 
to hyperventilate. To prevent it, I 
breathed into a paper bag. I switched 
to "pant-blow" breathing. My hus-
band told me which parts of my body 
to relax. The nurse noticed some 
irregularities in the heartbeat and 
asked me to tum on my left side. The 
irregularities did not correct them-
selves, so again the resident was 
called in along with what seemed like 
fifty other people, and fmally also my 
doctor. They kept talking about 
"cords" an4 I asked what they were. 
They explained that if the heartbeat 
bl.tddl'r 
rn tnlll 
c en 1\ 
stops for any length of time, the 
umbilical cord could be wrapped 
around the baby's neck or could have 
gotten twisted in some way. They 
were concerned about the baby get-
ting oxygen since the monitor regis-
tered some heart trouble. 

Before deciding to perform a 
Caesarean section, they inserted an-
other clip on the baby's bead to make 
sure the irregularities were not due to 
a faulty clip. As soon as the new clip 
was on, the heartbeat resumed its 
regular pulsation. The anxiety about 
a possible Caesarean did not relax 
me. As a result, when the doctor 
checked on my dilatation, I was only 
seven centimeters dilated (full dilation 
is ten). He gave me something to 
speed up my contractions and said, 
"You probably have two more hours 
to go." Could I make it? 

The main problem is fatigue. Labor 
for the first child is usually so long 
that one becomes overtired. One loses 
the strength to endure the more fre-
quent overwhelming pressure on the 
body, or the strength to breathe 
slowly and in tempo. Fatigue and the 
fear of hurtling out of control prevent 
many women from completing child-
birth without anaesthesia .. 

Many women now opt for only 
partial anaesthesia, "peridural" or 
"epidural." This usually numbs the 
area from the waist down without 
making the woman unconscious. If 
she takes a peridural, she can remain 
aware without having to deal with the 
pressure of contractions. But since the 
drug passes to the child, the peridural 
can also prolong labor. The mother 
who takes one cannot participate as 
fully in the delivery since it often 
prevents her from pushing along com-
pletely with each contraction. I had 
been determined not to take anything 
for labor. 

I had the urge to push, but since I 
wasn't fully dilated I might tear my 
cervix. The nurse asked if I wanted to 
take some Demerol to relax. I said 
no. Each contraction required full 
concentration. I grabbed my hus-
band's wrist to relieve the pressure. I 
had to switch to the method of 
holding my breath and then blowing 
out at the end of the contraction. My 
husband's wrist was sore for a week 
afterward. 



A particularly difficult contraction 
started and I didn't concentrate on 
breathing; I had been listening to the 
nurse talk about the clip to my hus-
band; the wave rushed through my 
body and engulfed me; I began to 
gasp, as though crying for air ... Relax 
this leg-relax it!" my husband said. I 
" 
wanted to push, but had to hold it in. 
A different nurse came in the room 
and s~id, "Slow down your breathing, 
slow 1t down!" I hated the nurse at 
that moment for being so rational, 
but later I was grateful to her. She 
made me slow down and concentrate 
on control. The next contractions 
were easier to take. 

The contractions were stronger by 
now though, and I felt very tired after 
each one. My nurse said, "Would you 
like something to relax you?" I asked 
if this would help dilate the cervix 
faster. "Yes," she said. My doctor 
came in and measured my cervix. 
"Half an hour more," he said. 

"Half an hour?" I repeated, in 
between contractions. "Will the con-
trations get any stronger than this?" 
.. No," he said. "They'll be as strong 
as the contractions you've been 
having." 

I calculated roughly and guessed I 
would have five more contractions in 
half an hour. "Oh, I can make it 
through five more contractions," I 
told my husband. "I don't want to 
take anything." It seemed only a few 
minutes until a new doctor hurried in. 
"O.K., she's ready," he told the nurse. 
"Have her push a few times before we 
go into delivery." 

I finally got to push. The contrac-
tion came. I raised my legs, took a 
deep breath and held it. I bore down 
as hard as I could and pushed until I 
felt blood rush to my cheeks. Finally 
there was a reason for all the other 
contractions. Finally there was work 
to be done, and I knew how to do it. 
All the unpleasantness and discomfort 
disappeared. The baby's bead 
crowned. They wheeled me to the 
delivery room. In the hall I began 
another contraction ... May I push?" I 
asked . 

.. Go ahead, breathe in, hold your 
breath, bear down, push as though 
you were going to have a bowel 
movement." In between contractions 
they transferred me to the delivery 
table and set up my legs in the 
stirrups. My husband appeared wear-
ing his mask and green surgical 
pajamas and sat down beside me. The 
new doctor said, .. Only two more 
contractions and we'll have your 
baby's head out- we're trying to feel 
which way it's facing. Push hard 
now- is a contraction coming?" 

"No, yes, now it's starting." 

"O.K., push down hard along with 
it." I pushed until I thought my 
bottom would split. 

"O.K., relax now and wait f"r the 
next contraction- you're doing fine. 
We're going to cut you to give the 
baby's head more room to come 
out- we'll give you novocaine for the 
cut." 

The next contraction began. I took 
a deep breath. "Push," my husband 
shouted as he held up my head. 
"Push, push!" I pushed hard for the 
excitement in his voice, but the head 
didn't show on the mirror above me. 
The doctor said, "We're going to 
use forceps on the next push." 

"Do you have to use forceps?" 

"They won't hurt the baby. We 
don't want the baby in the canal for 
too long a time-we think his head is 
facing up." This was an unusual 
position and made it more difficult to 
push him out. 

They inserted forceps into the 
vagina around the baby's head. The 
next contraction came. I pushed and 
could see a red, squinting face coming 
into the mirror. "With the next con-
traction you can push out the shoul-
ders and the rest of the body," the 
doctor said. I was close to tears with 
excitement. The body slithered out 
along the umbilical cord, a beautiful 
silver blue color. They whisked the 
baby away to the warming table as 
soon as they cut the cord. It was 
11:28 a.m., nine hours since we had 
left for the hospital. 

"You have a boy." 

"Oh, it's a boy!" I turned to my 
husband and hugged him joyfully. 
"Does be have five fingers on each 
hand and five toes on each foot?" I 
asked. 

"He's fine." As soon as the pedia-
trician had examined him they 
wrapped him up. My husband held 
him in his arms. We talked to him as 
we waited for the placenta to come 
out. 

After one more contraction the 
placenta was expelled. The doctor 
sewed up the episiotomy. That took 
about twenty minutes and was the 
most painful part of labor, particu-
larly since the novocaine wore off. All 
three of us went back to the labor 
room together. We stayed there for 
about a half hour before the nurses 
took the baby to the nursery. My 
husband went home to feed the dog. 

I was left in the room by myself for 
awhile and I felt at peace with life, 
pleasantly tired. I was happy that I 
had gone through the delivery with 
complete awareness, and had partici-
pated so actively in the birth of 
another person. Life seemed cyclical 
At that moment, I bad just helped to 
complete one of its most beautiful 
cycles. 

Natural childbirth is not natural. If 
it were truly natural, there would be 
no need for a special term. Natural 
childbirth consists of an artificial shell 
of learned responses which help a 
woman through labor. 

Labor is usually divided into three 
stages. The first stage can last from 
eight to ten hours during which the 
cervix dilates with regular contrac-
tions. The second stage can last from 
one and a half to two hours and is 
the pushing stage, the stage when the 
cervix is completely dilated and the 
baby moves through the birth canal 
and is born. The third stage of labor 
lasts ten to twenty minutes and 
consists of the time between the birth 
of the baby and the expulsion of the 
placenta. Perhaps the hardest period 
of labor falls within the first stage, 
called the transition stage. It occurs 
when the cervix dilates from seven 
centimeters to full dilatation-ten 
centimeters. Transition stage contrac-
tions are very strong. They sometimes 
last a minute, with intervals of two 
minutes. 

"Real" natural childbirth might be 
painful in many cases, but in "natural 
childbirth" methods there are three 
steps for eliminating the discomfort of 
labor. Fear often causes tension 
which then causes pain during a con-
traction. The first step, then. is to 
reduce fear of childbirth by educating 
the woman about her body and the 
functions of contractions in aiding the 
baby's passage down the birth canal. 
The second step is to eliminate muscle 
tension other than the tension caused 
by fear. The third step is to eliminate 
the feeling of helplessness and lack of 
control which contributes to tension 
and pain. 

Exercises are prescribed for these 
last two steps. Since two things 
happen to the body during contrac-
tions-one's muscles tense in response 
to the tensing of the uterine muscles, 
and one's breath tightens in response 
to the pain of the tension- two types 
of exercises are recommended: re-
laxation exercises for muscles and 
control exercises for breathing. 

The exercises are also utilized to 
eliminate discomfort by requiring the 
woman's full concentration. Since the 
brain can register only so many im-
pulses in a given instant, intentional 
concentration on certain controlled 
impulses can eliminate the recording 
on the brain of the impulses associ-
ated with contractions and their pos-
sible pain. In more concrete terms, if 
one's brain is busy concentrating on 
breathing and relaxing, no pain im-
pulse has a chance to imprint itself on 
the brain. One doesn't feel any pain. 
It is the same principle which applies 
when one cuts oneself, but is too busy 
to notice until later. 



**Director Reviews**
**Author: Graf Mouen**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
10 
Director Reviews 
Daily News 
Lackluster Production 
(f\ler 
... 
man 
by Graf Mouen 
Sitting next to me are the suitcases 
in which I packed everything when I 
agreed to write this article. A tinge of 
excitement eggs me on as I break a 
resolution not to publicize my feelings 
about play reviews. But my fingers 
are poking anxiously at the typewriter 
keys now that a cab is on its way. 
When those who are producing, 
studying, and reviewing theater at 
Yale are already bristling with indig-
nation, to raise one's voice is to 
become a new target. So be it. My 
bags are packed. 

Mention Williamstown, Drama 40, 
or Yale Drama School to serious Yale 
undergraduate actors and you will 
soon discover strong feelings, based 
on insecurity, about their talent in 
relation to these training grounds. 
Auditions, with their almost public 
competition, produce many jealous 
feelings. Comparing Yale dramatics to 
athletics reveals on the one hand a 
basic feeling of fellowship and mutual 
respect and on the other, disappoint-
ment and frustration. This might 
Graf Mouen (Yale '75) is artistic 
director of The New Stage in 
Asheville, N.C. 

indicate the difference between Yale's 
large commitment and enthusiasm for 
sports, and her continuing uncertainty 
about whether the arts deserve com-
plete moral- if not financial-sup-
port. Yale Daily News Arts Editor 
Allison Silver put her finger on it in 
an article (3/ 8/ 77) where she dis-
covered that the laughter of students 
who. work on residential college pro-
ductions has an edge. One sees more 
sneers than smiles. 

It is not clear that the several 
writers under Ms. Silver's current 
supervision, the reviewers of the Daily 
News, have dreamed of the role that 
t?ey ~ght play in redeeming a 
Situation replete with bad feelings. 
Not that they are insensitive to the 
fact that something is peculiarly 
wrong. 

Often with a Watergate-like confi-
dence, the Daily News points an 
accusing finger at a director, actor, or 
even at Shakespeare in an effort to 
excoriate the villain. This might have 
cathartic good effects if the pretender 
were indeed a villain and if he would 
lie down and quietly expire. The 
Daily News is betting against great 
odds that this will happen. Many of 
the actors and directors are shrivelled 
up, no doubt, by reviews, but they 
manage to live on in spite of it. It is 
possible to pursue another course of 
action and, incredible as it may seem 
to you and I assure you that it is 
incredible to me, I will now take the 
risk of describing this course to you, 
ch"er /ecteur. 

We begin with the attitude that 
theater is easy. Whenever I read a 
review that makes the "right way" 
sound "easy," I know I am reading a 
novice. Again and again the director 
realizes that he is in the dark about 
many things. Yet he presents a 
strong but complete concept to actors 
and techtes who will understand and 
evaluate his words in unforeseeable 
ways. When he is in the heart of 
conflict between immediate needs he 
is expected to be-and often is~ool­
headed about it all. The actor faces 
the demands of the director, the 
script, the set, and his own needs in 
preparation for performance. The 
techies face long evenings of continu-
ous work, regulations governing the 
use of the space, and living with 
severe financial restrictions. They re-
ceive little recognition. No defeat is 
ignominious. Don't believe them if 
they tell you that directing is obvious 
or that good acting is a cinch. 
Margaret Layne's review of "Four-
play" (4/ 8) is reassuring in its effort 
to recreate a sense of last minute 
excitement and panic. 

Next, the attitude that poker-faced 
detachment plus a strong sense of the 
difference between good and bad 
theater is the key to theatrical insight. 
If you refuse to participate in the 
illusion because you have lost your 
ability to believe childishly, then you 
really cannot pretend to be a good 
audience member-let alone a good 
critic. Participation is mandatory. 
When Marie Colvin claims, in her 
review of .. A View from the Bridge" 
(4/ 6) that "we remain painfully aware 
that they are performing; they are 
students uncomfortable with the 
naturalistic dialogue rather than emi-
grant Sicilians in a Brooklyn slum," 
one suspects that most members of 
the audience did not suffer this 
The New Journal f March 19, 1977 
painful awareness. They were willing 
to admit, as Marie might have ad-
mitted herself, to not knowing very 
much about Sicilians, and to not 
especially caring one way or the 
other. When Marie remarks that "the 
choreography of the final death scene 
is s~perb," she leaves us wondering if 
she 1s not among those who think 
about choreography and pacing even 
when the moment is superb. 

Closely related to detachment is the 
familiar mechanism of shifting atten-
tion from what was done to what 
might have been done. This tactic 
presumably spares the reader the 
dulling process ("it would be unfair 
and dulling to plot" ( 11 /6 /76)) of 
hearing about the actual production. 
It allows the reviewer the liberty of 
expatiating on his own good ideas. 
Many reviewers calmly adopt the 
fiction of protecting the interests of 
the playwright. "Miller's tragic reality 
is obscured by this very intensity." 
(4/ 6) Sometimes the playwright 
speaks his intentions through the 
mouth of the reviewer: "Brecht's 
characters simply do not taste their 
cigars."' (2/ 25) A reviewer might 
assume the intimacy of passing judg-
ment on an up-and-coming dramatist 
as the reviewer of "Winter's Tale" 
' 
does in calling Shakespeare's dialogue 
"dull." (4/8) 

Generalizations often leave us a bit 
dizzy. A r~view of the Long Wharfs 
"St. Joan" mentions in passing that 
"interpretation is not a question of 
transformation but of realization." 
Later, the review admonishes that 
"Long Wharf productions do not 
suffer from the anxiety of the ground-
less search for novelty [as do Yale 
Rep productions]." (3/ 11) 

The attitude of detachment, ideas 
~bout what might have been, speak-
mg from the dead playwright's point 
of view, these can be symptomatic of 
only one thing: the poor critic's inno-
cent response to the need, as ·he 
perceives it, to evaluate at all costs. 
Counterpoint. Point out the good and 
the bad. Above all, evaluate critically 
and fairly, but evaluate. 

The effort to make everything come 
out in the wash by tying some of the 
good to some of the bad and then 
adm?nishing us to go see it is pulling 
rabbits out of the hat. No one is 
fooled by statements like "Despite 
some sloppy acting and uninspired 
direction, 'Adaptation' is well worth 
any audience's participation." (2/ 11) 
Or, "Excellent acting offsets an un-
even script and combine to foment a 
worthwhile evening." (3/ 28) These are 
the consolation prizes awarded by the 
critic who is naturally beginning to 
sicken of the evaluating process by 
the end of the review. 

11
Embarrassing to the cast, disil-
lusioning to the general reader, I do 
not beHeve that passing judgment is a 
source of gratification for the re-
viewer. I am in fact the mad radical 
who beHeves that most reviewers do 
not even consciously intend to do 
much evaluating, but that old theater 
terminology traps them-words like 
timing, comedy, balance, characteriza-
tion, pacing, convincing acting, light-
hearted laughs, hilarious effect, styli-
zation, professional standards, and 
phrases like "the diction and rhythm 
of speech" (2/ 10), "fast-paced se-
quence," "flow of the narrative" 
(3/11), "bringing life into rather 
colorless roles" (3/ 4) are poisonous 
language. 

Reviewers must give up any trust in 
these deceptively simple terms, since 
they conceal many important issues. 
"And it's timing that made it [work?]. 
Successful timing in both delivery and 
transition . ., (2/ 4) Behind a term Hke 
"good timing,., I see the characters or 
the audience being encouraged to 
jump to conclusions, or an actor's 
awareness moving quickly and dis-
creetly from his emotional to his 
physical environment and back again. 
"Good timing" might be spiritual 
agility and preparedness without 
having to leave behind personal 
values. In another context, "timing" is 
dogged determination and unflinching 
repetition of the same response. 
"Convincing acting" is an even larger 
concept. It probably has something to 
do with the actor's level of excite-
ment, the clarity of his vision of his 
ultimate values and objectives, his 
ability to convey a personal message 
relevant to the play, his modest 
immediacy in relationship to the 
audience .... Who knows bow we 
come to suspend our disbelief? I am 
baffled when a reviewer claims that 
the actin wa$ "unconvincing" and 
lets it go at that. 

Talking about all plays in terms 
like pacing and characterization is 
like talking about all sports events in 
terms of running and passing. Be-
tween the moment of intense partici-
pation in seeing a production and 
that of putting one's impressions 
down on paper, there might come the 
careful examination in thoughtful de-
tachment-free of predetermined 
word-packaging-of the intangible 
though powerful forces that shape 
theater. The critic can shed light on 
what is murky, and he can interpret 
and integrate into our experience 
that which is clear. 

He can reveal what mi~bt account 
for the way people act at 
times, and the way an 
audience responds. He can provide 
the valuable insight of the reflective 
observer by suggesting how, as per-
former or audience, we might sharpen 
our sensibilities. He may merely tell 
us something we cannot see for 
ourselves or he might get us inside the 
illusion or behind the scenes to reveal 
our u~ounded preconceptions of 
what things are like by revealing his 
own. Adopting this course of action 
requires no more drastic a step than 
to give up the outworn jargon of 
reviews. They are no magic formulae. 
It would be a step toward alleviating 
the profound distrust of theater that 
generates bitterness in the profession, 
and suspicion in the minds of bright 
Americans- some of whom are at 
Yale. 

I bear the honking of a cab. What 
will I be thinking about? What direc-
tors think about: finding out where 
the tears come from, finding the 
emblematic, keeping eyes open to 
human nature, making a performance 
a Httle clearer, a little more inevitable. 
But now I will grab these things and get 
out of here. 


**Stevens in Bloom**
**Author: Walter Rieman**
**Page number(s): 12**

12 
Stevens 
in Bloont 
by Walter Rieman 
Wallace Stevens: The Poems of Our 
Climate, by Harold Bloom. Cornell 
University Press, Ithaca, N.Y. 413 pp. 
$17.50. 
W. H. Auden once remarked that a 
poet could count himself successful 
only when those who had never read 
his work expressed opinions about it. 
If the same is true of critics, I suspect 
Harold Bloom has long been a 
spectacular success. The New York 
Times, for instance, gave one of 
Bloom's recent books to an academic 
whom the editor probably expected to 
be completely unsympathetic to 
Bloom. The result was one of the 
most disquietingly bad pieces ever to 
appear under a very famous name. To 
adapt a remark Bloom himself made 
about Milton's Satan, it is sad to 
observe most critics observing Bloom, 
because they never do observe him. 
But if the Times is not the arbiter of 
success in these matters, the New 
Journal is much less so, and in any 
case Bloom has not always been 
denied his due. For the present book 
that due is very large; Wallace 
Stevens: The Poems of Our Climate is 
an extraordinarily good book, even 
for a critic whose earlier perform-
ances have led to the very high expec-
tations one has from Bloom. 

The book includes twelve chapters 
on Stevens's poetry, which is con-
sidered in the sequence of compo-
sition. Two chapters, the first and the 
last, consider critical theory. The two 
aspects are integrated with consid-
erable success, which may stem in 
part from the design of the book as 
an interpretive work with an extensive 
theoretical adjunct rather than the 
other way around. Bloom's earlier 
"tetralogy of studies in 'antithetical 
criticism,' " as his publishers called it, 
was sometimes too impatient to get 
its argument under way again when 
faced with illustrations from difficult 
poetry. The result was some unclarity 
in the argument. 

The readings Bloom gives here are 
lucid and convincing, particularly 
those of the late poems, which have 
been especially misunderstood in the 
past. The readings return to us with 
the alienated majesty of thoughts we 
should have had, and are almost an 
embarrassment to much previous 
Stevens criticism. One may well be 
grateful for the prescience Bloom 
brings to Stevens, considering even 
the best of what came before with 
considerable dissatisfaction. Previous 
studies range from the unbelievably 
bad to the qualified success. The 
presiding sin is the tendency to read 
Stevens's ironies as the central text, 
rather than as efforts to incorporate 
even his own large doubts into an 
encompassing vision of the American 
Sublime. 

Bloom is more receptive than the 
other major Stevens critics to the 
expansive claims Stevens never ceased 
to make for his imagination and for 
his poetry as an imaginative vehicle. 
He also understands the antecedents 
of these claims in Emerson and 
Whitman more thoroughly and sym-
pathetically than his predecessors. 
Moreovel", he writes throughout with 
an intensity equal to that of any of 
his other books. 

Bloom's method of sustaining his 
judgment· that Stevens's egotistical 
sublime is more egotistical and more 
sublime than others had thought-or 
his method of arriving at that judg-
ment-is intricately and persuasively 
bound up with the theoretical expo-
sition in the first and last chapters. 
The quick of the argument is in the 
last chapter. I recommend reading it 
immediately after the first chapter 
and then again after the twelve 
middle chapters. The argument is 
carried out largely as a respectful 
polemic against Paul de Man, J. 
Hillis Miller and Jacques Derrida. 
Both sides of the quarrel will be 
grossly wronged in summary, but 
some account other than simple 
praise must be ventured for a focal 
point of the book. In brief, decon-
struction, which in various forms is 
the method of the three critics men-
tioned above, analyzes texts by con-
sidering them as systems of inter-
dependent tropes, or substitutions, or 
"figures of speech." To describe these 
tropes they use the terms of tradi-
tional rhetoric. Their ultimate aim, 
however, is to reveal the inadequacy 
of both the terms used and the tropes 
described, and thereby to cast doubt 
upon the poetic mode of thinking in 
tropes. For instance, irony is the 
substitution of a (figurative) meaning 
for a (literal) meaning which seems to 
contradict the first meaning. A rhet-
orician of the old school might be 
content to say nothing more about it. 
The deconstructionist would point out 
that it is impossible simply to concede 
authority to the figurative meaning as 
against the asserted (albeit ironically 
asserted) literal meaning. 

We have two different meanings on 
two different levels of discourse. 
Hence an oscillation which cannot be 
resolved occurs. All tropes are so 
vulnerable; indeed, all tropes could be 
said to bear some similarity to irony 
in that they displace one meaning 
with a meaning which is different 
from it, and hence to some degree 
irreconcilable with it. And since in 
poems tropes depend upon one an-
other, instability piles on instability, 
and the distinction between figurative 
and literal language becomes blurred. 
Even the minimal "progress" a text 
makes by proceeding from one thing 
to another is not likely to be viewed 
as much more than another polarity 
to be revealed as arbitrary and stood 
on its head. 

A deconstructionist will be con-
cerned with taboo or forbidden his-
tories and assumptions, and it is thus 
to be expected that the deconstruc-
tionist as exegete should find at his 
end a radical and irresolvable doubt 
about the possibility of meaning in a 
structure whose deepest, in fact whose 
defining, claim is that it does mean. 
Bloom's own summary of his refu-
tation bears somewhat lengthy quota-
tion: "The limits of a purely rhetorical 
criticism, however advanced, are es-
tablished by its inevitable reductive-
ness, its necessary attempt to see 
poetry as being a conceptual rhetoric, 
and nothing more. Rhetoric, con-
sidered as a system of tropes, yields 
much more readily to analysis than 
does rhetoric considered as per-
suasion, for persuasion, in poetry, 
takes us into a realm that also 
includes the lie. Poems lie primarily 
against three adversaries: I) them-
selves 2) other poems 3) time. 
"Why do we believe one liar rather 
than another? Why do we read one 
poet rather than another? We believe 
the lies we want to believe because 
they help us to survive. Similarly, we 
read (reread) the poems that keep our 
discourse with ourselves going .... 
For the deconstructive critic, a trope 
is a figure of knowing and not of 
willing .... 
"A deconstructive reading of a 
poem must treat the poem's urging of 
us, to whatever, as the poem's own 
questioning of the language of urging. 
Here I cite John Hollander: 'But the 
urging of a work of literature, per-
haps accomplished by its formal 
frame, is no less an act of urging than 
any other kind of exhortation. The 
analysis of urging and exhorting can 
no longer be properly linguistic. And, 
finally, it is as such that it lies outside 
the realm of poetics.' " 

I find this wholly persuasive. 
Bloom refuses to demystify or de-
mythologize poems by taking their 
mythology away from them and from 
us- which deconstruction constantly, 
despite the contentions of its ad-
The New Journal I March 19, 1977 
herents, threatens to do. Poems may 
not be able to demonstrate anything 
save the problematic nature of their 
figurations, and troping as a mode of 
thought may fail of rigor. As 
Hollander implies, however, thought 
itself will then fail, but poetry is not 
called upon to do more than elicit our 
faith. The deconstructionists skirt a 
final no too insistently; we, like 
Stevens, demand after that a yes on 
which the world depends. 

The "diachronic rhetoric" Bloom 
goes on to sketch involves three 
"Poetic Crossings" or moments of 
disjunction in figuration: the Cross-
ings of Election, of Solipsism, and of 
Identification, which correspond to 
the rhetorical terms ethos, logos, and 
pathos, and to the Emersonian fate, 
freedom, and power. These crossings 
are introduced in the first chapter and 
used throughout the book. Like the 
six revisionary ratios, they are both 
stages in the development of a poet 
and characteristics of a given poem. 
Thus we are told that Stevens negoti-
. ated his crossings in 1915, 1921-22, 
and 1942 ·respectively, even as we are 
told that "Blanche McCarthy" evinces 
the crossings. The juxtaposition has 
the uncanny effect of offering us the 
poet's life as poet for an emblem of 
any of his poems. 

I am content merely to note the 
merit the crossings show in their use, 
though one might wish that Bloom 
had explored a bit further his hint 
that recourse away from a merely 
rhetorical criticism is likely to be 
recourse to a criticism which inter-
prets the will on at least partly 
psychological ground. Some notice, 
however, should be taken of what is 
really a highly condensed essay in the 
history of ideas in the last chapter. 
This history marks Bloom's first 
serious attempt to venture an expla-
nation as to why the various patterns 
he has set before us evolved as the 
patterns by which, and against which, 
Romantic poems defined themselves. 
In the Anxiety of Influence Bloom 
offered a brief apology for his failure 
to discuss Shakespeare on the ground 
that Shakespeare "belongs to the 
giant age before the flood, before the 
anxiety of influence became central," 
a passage which Paul de Man criti-
cized as embracing historical fallacies. 
(Mr. de Man also suggested that 
Bloom should have progressed from 
identifying an anxiety of influence to 
an anxiety of representation, i.e. an 
anxiety of or doubt about troping, 
but Bloom has resolutely declined to 
change his bread into stones.) 

We begin to see how prescriptive 
Bloom's maps really are, and one 
recalls his well-known gusto for the 
most pronunciatory canon-formation. 
To wonder if Pope could be called a 
strong poet in Bloom's sense is to 
stammer and fall silent. If it is clear 
that a contemporary Pope is out of 
the question, it is by no means so 
clear how that came to happen, how 
an experiment in form stratified into 
an expectation and finally, at least for 
Bloom, into something very like a 
standard. Yet the expectation that a 
poem will show a clear relation to the 
patterns, even in its transgressions, is 
borne out to an extent almost dis-
maying, and almost exhilarating. 
Walter Rieman is a senior in Jonathan 
Edwards. 



**The Franchisers**
**Author: Alex Stille**
**Page number(s): 14**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
.. No body knows about Stanley 
Elldn," I'd thought. To get a copy of 
his new novel The Franchiser, I had 
to place a special order. Having 
overheard, a one-eyed man in the 
bookstore approached me. "Elkin, 
huhT' he said in a conspiratorial 
whisper. 
.. Yes. You know of himT' 
.. I'll tell you son, I've got one eye 
left so I save it for what is really 
worth reading. That Elldn can really 
write." 

The man was right. In his new 
novel, Elldn displays a bold creative 
energy. Like other novels such as 
Bellow's Herzog and Walker Percy's 
Love in the Ruins, it shows us man 
attempting to cope with a broken, 
decaying world. 

Ben Flesh, the novel's hero, like 
Elldn himself, is dying from multiple 
sclerosis. The book is filled with the 
poignancy and intensity of a life with 
little time. This concentration of 
experience brings forth a comic 
celebration of the smallest givens of 
everyday life. 

Ben Flesh is the unseen hand 
behind the chain franchises that orna-
ment America, such as Howard 
Johnson's, Mister Softee, Fred 
Astaire Dance Studios, Colonel 
Sanders, and H & R Block. Flesh 
owns franchises in all parts of the 
country: the nights and days of the 
novel are spent in moving from 
franchise to franchise, motel to motel. 
The novel's restless movement shows 
Elkin's attempt to find a place for the 
individual in the seedy sameness of a 
mass-produced world. 

Flesh's career begins when his 
godfather, Junius Finsberg, whom he 
has never met, calls him to his death-
bed. Finsberg, who swindled Ben's 
father out of a fortune, went from 
being a poor tailor to designing 
costumes for the great musical 
comedies of the depression years. 
From beneath an oxygen tent, 
Finsberg makes reparation for his 
swindle. He reveals a vision to Flesh: 
Who would believe it? You weren't 
aborted, you didn't end up in a 
scum bag ... You outwitted 
whooping cough, typhoid, V.D. 
God bless you boy, you're a testa-
ment to the impossible! 

The celebration of mere being 
forms the central vision of the novel. 
Flesh reaffirms this by the end of the 
book as it comes full circle to his own 
approaching death. 

While the franchising of life reduces 
it to its lowest common denomi-
nator- like MacDonald's, it barely 
satisfies the basic need for food-
Elkin makes us marvel at life, even at 
this low level. By reaching everybody 
at basic levels, the chains of 
franchises .. structure life like scaf-
folding." Flesh is a modem prophet, 
an anti-Zarathustra, revelling in 
simple, squalid comfort instead of 
glorifying superhuman nobility. In 
parody of Zarathustra's "I speak the 
Superman!" Flesh tells us ••I come 
from Fred Astaire. Everybody dance! 
... Dance to the rate of prime 
interest itself." 

Although the book often rises again 
to moments of terrific humor and 
imaginative writing, it has difficulty 
finding movement beyond its original 
framework. It begins to move 
frantically from episode to episode, 
turning the same trick too many 
times. 

The messiness of the second half 1S 
redeemed by the renewal of vision 
Flesh experiences while dying in his 
Travel Inn. Listening to all the sex 
through the motel's thin walls, Flesh 
realizes that in spite of aU life's 
arflictions and disease, man cannot be 
kept from loving: .. There's scarlet 
fever and muscular distrophy and 
Hodgkin's disease ... and still they 
smooch ... French kiss with their 
throats sore and their noses running." 

It seems a shame that a novel so 
moving, imaginative and loving 
should be weighted down by the 
book's excesses and weaknesses. Yet 
Elkin's faults are generated from the 
excitement of his peculiar celebration 
of the ordinary, and finally it is this 
and not the faults that stay with the 
reader. Elkin convinces us that "the 
signs as they came on in nighttime 
Birmingham, all the blink-bulb neon 
and electric extravaganzas that stood 
out sharp against the sky, proved that 
every night Broadway opens every-where." 


**Deportment in Ropes**
**Author: Steven Graves**

There are no trilliums here about you, 
no pentstemons, more likely belladonna, 
poppy, anodyne of root or pistil 
that roars in your head and spills you 
into sleep, amusing you with sleep. 

No longer will I live among the names 
you have vacated, no more shadbush, 
toadflax, bee-balm, rather I will live 
with your slender stem withering in robes 
and with your eyes that reel, sick and abandoned. 

So also will I be empty of every 
other place: fencerows, bays of capricious grass, 
the whole wood alive with one song. Here, 
there is only disinfection, 
your dressing gown, or the cellar of your bed. 

Better to have no name for you, only 
this terminal, below the black sweeping fan, 
where you are fettered and rave, mad with ftre 
and talking with fire, pleading again 
for what you saw and knew and once felt. 


**Hitching**
**Author: Bruce A. Murray**
**Page number(s): 15**

(continued from page two) 
Our new driver had left New 
Jersey, got to Iowa City, and then 
decided to turn around and go back. 
"I was on my way," he said, "moving 
to Colorado, when something made 
me do a U-turn." This driver began 
by asking us if we were Christians. 
Next came a small booklet of apoca-
lyptic prophecies; and then our 
driver's life history. Heavily into 
drugs for eight years including heroin, 
he renounced them all a month earlier 
after a session in a fundamentalist 
church. He was preparing himself for 
the tribulation mentioned in the book 
he gave us. He wanted to make sure 
that we knew about salvation. God, 
he finally decided, had made him turn 
around in Iowa so that he could pick 
us up and let us know about his 
happiness. 

Even those that never stop for 
hitch-hikers feel a slight pang of guilt 
as they pass someone whose thumb is 
out. As long as the hitcher can 
provoke that pang, he and his art 
should survive. A seasoned hiker I 
know advertises a standing bet: he 
claims he can give anyone a twelve 
hour head start in a car from Maine, 
and he will follow hitch-hiking, 
promising to beat the single driver to 
California. His secret, he says, is a fat 
smile to every car. No one has taken 
him up on the wager. 

Standing on a barren strip of land 
in Wyoming, we saw a Volkswagen 
bus. We hoped it carried the usual 
sympathetic VW driver. It was cold, 
getting dark, and we knew he would 
stop. He had his van fixed for living; 
a mattress, shelves, and a lamp 
arranged in the back showed him to 
be a traveller like the two of us. 

After a year in college, he bad tried 
drugs, working, and wandering. When 
· we met, he had emerged from all but 
the last. In the three years since 
college, he had worked as a roust-
about on an oil rig, a chef in a high-
class restaurant, a mason, an elec-
trician, an underground mining 
mechanic. He knew hitch-hiking; he 
once made it from California to his 
home in Massachusetts with just three 
rides-a standing record, be told us. 

Outside Joliet, Ill., a tractor trailer 
pulled over for us. The driver carried 
40,000 pounds of plate glass from 
Detroit to Denver. He was proud of 
his turbo-Charged Detroit 318 diesel, 
proud of his ability to shift without a 
clutch, and proud to be an indepen-
dent trucker. He rambled on about 
life, the scenery, bow the foothills of 
the Rockies start in Iowa, and how, 
above all, "you can't fool Mother 
Nature." Nodding in agreement in his 
cab-over International, we let him 
talk all the way to Des Moines. "If I 
was young again," be said, "rd get 
me one of them vans, fix it up real 
nice, and then just travel across the 
country finding the women and the 
sun." At thirty-two be made a living 
doing the next best thing. 

Our shortest ride took us 500 
yards- our longest, 2000 miles, yet 
the cheap way to go bad its draw-
backs. I bought a car one week after 
our return. 


**I can feel healthy wearing cowboy boots**
**Author: Dan Leffel**

I was walking along Elm Street one 
morning recently, absent-mindedly 
stomping on pigeons, as I am accus-
tomed to do, when I noticed a young 
bearded young man pacing back and 
forth in front of the post office. I felt 
compelled to address him. 

"Excuse me, sir," I said, using my 
politest language. Fortunately, my 
politest language is English, which ·he 
seemed to understand. 

"Yes?" he said. 

"Well," I continued, ''I may be out 
of line with this, but there seems to 
be a rag on top of your head. I 
thought you might like to know." 

"Rag my foot!" he replied, with 
more than a pinch of indignation. 
"That's my turban!" I pinched him 
back and begged him to elaborate. 

"Allow me to call your attention to 
my sandwich-sign," he said. At first I 
hadn't recognized the two boards as 
a sandwich-sign, not having seen one 
in many years- not, in fact, since 
they fell out of use, about a decade 
before I was born. 

I looked at the sign. "Silver Lentil 
Compendium," it read. "Health 
Foods and Takti Shoes." It's only 
natural that if you're trying to adver-
tise shoes and health food you want 
to keep your head wrapped in a piece 
of dirty cotton. 

In any case, I've always had a soft 
spot for health, and certainly one for 
food as well. I must confess that I 
also wear shoes, especially on pigeon-
stomping days. So I asked my new 
friend where the compendium was 
located and ascertained that it was in 
the only natural location-the site of 
the old Saks store on York Street. I 
made tracks for just that place. 

It was a beautiful store, appointed 
with plush carpeting and plexiglass 
shelves, and peopled by men without 
sandwich-signs. But they all did wear 
beards and turbans; some wore cotton 
garments that looked like nightgowns. 
From large stereo speakers came the 
sounds of Hindu chants accompanied 
by a lone guitar. I was deeply moved 
by the message of this music, which 
seemed to be saying: "Buy a guitar 
and a chord book and you too can be 
a professional musician." 

Soon I realized that this was no 
ordinary purveyor of footwear and 
food. In addition to tapes of music 
available for purchase, the store sold 
natural hairbrushes and tonics. One 
of these tonics was Joyja Shampoo, 
which is made from the juice of the 
joyja bean. It comes wrapped in a 
brochure with many "before" and 
"after" pictures. The "befores" all 
suffer from varying degrees of bald-
ness, while the "afters" have full 
heads of hair. They also have dif-
ferent names and faces. 


I passed up the many appealing 
health food delicacies. Even a tempt-
ing "Ruby Begonia Sandwich" 
couldn't lure 95 cents out of my 
pocket. I wasn't saving my hard-
borrowed shekels for a little bit of 
cream cheese mixed with dates and 
nuts and held in place by two shingles 
of whole-wheat bread. 

Next to Ruby Begonia were the 
famous Takti Shoes. They looked 
very much like the shoes I had been 
wearing when I spontaneously broke 
my foot two years ago. When I 
bought mine nobody told me they 
weren't good for walking. I guess by 
now it's common knowledge that 
you're supposed to eat them. 

I wondered how so many seemingly 
unrelated pieces of merchandise had 
come together under one roof. But as 
I was about to chomp into a suede 
ankle-high boot that was on display, I 
overheard one of the salesmen mutter 
something about a theory connecting 
shoes with nuts, shampoo, bacteria 
and, I think "turbans." 

A lovely theory rm sure. But if 
some people have a theory linking 
physical and spiritual health with 
anything that happens to trickle out 
of Asia, I have an even better one 
that associates well-being with hold-
ing onto my money unless I find 
something worth spending it on. So, 
with a sudden hankering for a Coke 
and french-fries and with a pair of 
feet in my dusty cowboy boots, I said 
"Good day" to the Silver Lentil Com-
pendium and sauntered out. 


We've got corsages 
for the Prom! 
$3.50 and up 
Rose Bud Florist, Inc. 
1042 Chapel St. 
865-8583 
Special on daisies $2.99 
carnations $4.95



**Baskin-Robbins Advertisement**
**Author: Baskin-Robbins**
**Page number(s): 16**


Baskin-Robbins Third annual "Does anyone out there really read this publication or 
are Yalies too wealthy to clip coupons?" advertisement 
Rumor has it that the Yale Center for British An opens today. Baskin-Robbins says congratulations (at last!!). We celebrate this event by offering Yalies 
(if not too wealthy to clip coupons) two school-end specials. 

Super-thick 24 oz. 
SHAKES : 
reg. st.o3 
79e

CONES 
reg. 7oe 
49e

Your ch01ce 31 
avors
Your choice 31 flavors


**Eli International, Inc. Advertisement**
**Author: Eli International, Inc.**

FLY ELI!
May 12 
May 18 
May 30 
Eastbound 
Round trip departing May 
June 23 
July 7 
July 28 
Round trip departing June -
July 
June 10 
July 8 
Aug. 5 
Aug. 19 
Sept. 1 
$385.00* 
$485.00* 
Westbound 
Or return date 
may be left open, 
(good up to one 
year of departure) 
• Plus $10.00 (includes $3.00 U.S. Departure Tax and Administrative Fee.) 
All airfares subject to change. 
ALL FLIGHTS .kOUND TRIP NEW YORK • LUXEMBOURG 
BR ·thanks Yale for your patronage. 
Have a good summer!


**Book Store Advertisement**
**Author: Not specified**

111111111111111111 
~~X.E: 
~~ 
~ 
... 
77Broadway,NewHaven 
.._,"""-"-" 
Daily: 9:15-5:30/Thursdays Until9 
•••••••••••••••••• 
Once a year sale Wednesday, Apri120 through Saturday, Apri123 
20% off every book in stock* 
-
over 40,000 titles 
largest collection of hardcover and paperback books in Connecticut 
All sales final 
•excluding New Yo:-k Times bestsellers- already discounted 30% 

