Publication date: April 17, 1987
Volume: 19
Issue number: 6

**MASTHEAD:**
- Cover Design: john Stella
- Cover photo: Pearl Hu


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**

Between the Vines - 8
Borderline Friends - Susan Orenstein
Leaps and Bounds - Skye Wilson
A Passion Preserved - Hugh Kennedy
The Course of Neglect - james Bennet
Tallying the Score - Daniel Waterman
Heroic Landscapes - Blakey Vermeule
Yale's Failing Grade - 


**Title: Yale Symphony Orchestra**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 2**

Tickets: 
$6 general admission 
$3 students and senior citizens 
two for one-advance sales only 
reservations: 
432 - 4140 
2 The :-lew JournaVApril 17, 1987 
Yale Symphony Orchestra 
Alasdair Neale, music director 
1986·1987 Season 
Tchaikovsky: 
Symphony No.5 
Bernstein: 
Symphonic Dances 
from 'West Side Story' 
·· 
Rossini: 
'The Italian Girl in 
Algiers' Overture 
Annual Benefit Concert 
Woolsey Hall 
~-
,_. 
Friday, April24, 1987 
Spm 


**Title: Borderline Friends**
**Author: Susan Orenstein**
**Page number(s): 8**

Two years ago, when the writer started volunteering as a Big Sister in New Haven, she 
found herself placed in an unfamiliar context, in the role of ready-rruule friend. 
Communication relied on finding common experiences, but at times distance imposed too 
large a gap. By Susan Orenstein.


**Title: Leaps and Bounds**
**Author: Skye Wilson**
**Page number(s): 12**

Afterthought 
With works that convert credit cards and knitting needles into dance themes, three 
1'IUJ(/ern choreographers collaborate to reach increasingly receptive audiences. Here they 
describe the creative energies they bring to a renewed dance movement in New Haven. 
By Skye Wilson.


**Title: A Passion Preserved**
**Author: Hugh Kennedy**
**Page number(s): 18**

Horace Walpole died 200 years before ~y" Lewis was even born. But at Yale~ 
, 
Lewis Walpole Library in Farmington, part archive and part museum, the minds of the 
two men have achieved a curious fusion. By Hugh Kennedy.


**Title: The Course of Neglect**
**Author: james Bennet**
**Page number(s): 24**

Teaching Assistants .from the Humanities and Social Sciences divisions of the Graduate 
School claim that Yale is a bad employer, saying that it provides wages that dont 
support them, job descnptions that mystify them, and no means to remedy complaints. 
Trying to tap this discontent, the TA Solidarity Group hopes to unite graduate students 
to form a collective voice and, if necessary., to take collective aciton. By james Bennet.


**Title: Tallying the Score**
**Author: Daniel Waterman**
**Page number(s): 34**

After ten years at the helm of Yale athletics, Franlc Ryan will step down this July to 
assume new duties at Yale. Having strengthened the department~ financial and 
organizaJional base, Ryan defends his controversial career against sharp criticisms .from 
alienated coaches and athletes who agree that the time has come for a change. 
By Daniel Waterman.


**Title: Heroic Landscapes**
**Author: Blakey Vermeule**
**Page number(s): 42**

Above the Land, the most recent winner in the Yale Younger Poets &ries, offers 
strong images of the places and people author julie Agoos has known: a timeworn New 
Hampshire field, an Italian concierge. Always, her poems evoke new responses to 
familiar subjects. By Blakey Vermeule.


**Title: Yale's Failing Grade**
**Author: Barry Shain (GRD '88)**
**Page number(s): 46**

Barry Shain (GRD '88) arrived at Yale six years ago, searching for a strong intellectual 
climate. What he found instead: narrowmindedness and dogmatism.



**Title: News Journal**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
News Journal
Sterling Voices
Wednesdays, right around noon, most 
people eat lunch. Hardly anyone goes 
to the library. So hardly anyone, 
except perhaps a few librarians, hears 
the voices coming faintly from a far-off 
corner of Sterling. A lonely grad 
student playing a radio in the stacks? 
Confused worshippers mistaking Ster-
ling for a church? Not quite. It's the 
Yale University Library Staff Singers. 
"We practice on Wednesdays," 
conductor David . Weisbrod explained. 
Weisbrod, 
who 
works 
for the 
Library Systems Office, has conducted 
the Staff Singers for several years. He 
did not come up with their name; none 
of the Singers seems to want that bit of 
ingenuity credited to them. But he has 
exercised an iron fist over the group, 
for whom fifteen minutes of calis-
thenics 
precede each We.dnesday 
rehearsal. Olga Phoenix, a veteran of 
the group and native Yugoslavian, 
remembers the turbulent days before 
Weisbrod's ascendancy. "Our first 
conductor, the one before David, was 
Ukrainian, so we sang a lot of Eastern 
European music. I, myself, loved these 
songs, but I think the words were too 
difficult for the Americans to pro-
nounce. We didn't have many people 
then. Now we have more." The 
members, composed of staffers and 
graduate student workers 
from 
throughout the Yale library system, 
sing mostly in English now, although 
last year Weisbrod let his troops 
perform "Mon coeur se recommande a 
vous." 

The Singers rarely schedule more 
than two tour stops each year. While 
students vacation in December, the 
Library Staff Holiday Party features 
the group as 
its entertainment 
attraction. And in late May, the 
Singers give their annual concert. 
These dates make it difficult for 
interested undergraduates to attend 
concerts, and Weisbrod admits the 
scheduling is deliberate. "We're not a 
student group, so we don't generally 
perform for students," he said. They 
do, however, make guest appearances 
at Tower One, a ho.using development 
for senior citizens, and at Connecticut 
Hospice in Branford. 

So why do they closet themselves 
away in the corner of Sterling, in the 
Lecture Gallery, to rehearse? Actually, 
the Singers do not always act so 
reticent. They have been known to 
sneak a song or two in "acoustic 
utopia"- the library nave. In this 
bastion of silence, doesn't Weisbrod 
think it inappropriate that he and other 
librarians set a noisy example? "No," 
he said, in a tone that brooked no 
argument. 

- Warren Kampf


**Title: Bad Connections**
**Author: Talia Bloch**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

Bad Connections
If you've finally figured out how call-
back works, if you can recite your six-
digit access code in your sleep and have 
received a refund for all the numbers 
on your phone bill you didn't call, 
congratulations. You will have more 
changes 
in the phone system to 
contend with next year. The Yale 
Communications Department will 
change student telephone numbers to 
correspond with their room numbers. 
Although many students may find this 
change 
convenient, Jeff Euben, 
manager of Central Campus Commu-
nications, calls it a security risk, 
because anyone- well-meaning or 
not- can readily find out a room 
number and locate a student. 

Changing phone numbers marks 
another step in an overhaul of the 
system which began in 1973. That 
year, while SNETCO continued to 
handle local calls, Yale bought its own 
W A TTSBOX and gained access to 
long-distance trunks. 
After the 
Medical School successfully installed 
its own telephone cables in 1980, Yale 
Communications dec.ided to buy 
phone lines for the entire campus. By 
fall 1986 it owned and operated all of 
its own telephone cables. It leases lines 
from SNET for local calls and employs 
the cheapest lines available for any 
particular long-distance route. 

Michael Grunder, director of the 
Yale Communications Department, 
concedes that "you can't put in a 
system like this perfectly." And, in 
fact, students have been grumbling 
about the phones since they arrived in 
September. Bruce Spiva, a member of 
the Student Life Committee of the 
Yale College Council, maintains that 
"Y ALENET has not communicated 
effectively enough with students. They 
haven't told people how to use the 
system and 
where 
to go with 
complaints." 

Human errors accounted for many 
of the 
transition 
problems 
first 
semester, and the department has 
taken care of most of them. Some 
students who 
signed up 
for 
BASICPLUS never received its new 
features, such as call-waiting and call-
back, 
because 
their orders were 
recorded wrong. 
In addition to 
jumbled orders, 
misenten!d Social 
Security numbers kept bills tied up for 
months, so that a number of students 
still face the prospect of back bills. 

The New.JournaVApril17, 1987 5


Human mistakes also kept some stu-
dents off a mailing list that would have 
informed them of the cheaper BASIC 
system which became available over 
the summer. 

The computers proved no less 
fallible than the Yale Communications 
staff, cha~:ging students for calls to such 
popular numbers as 000-0000. And if 
you think someone discovered your 
access code and made those five 
unexplained calls to Oregon, then you 
should probably request a refund. 

According to Grunder, the computer, 
and 
not 
some creative number-
pqncher, was most likely to blame. 
Moreover, it shouldn't happen again. 
To frustrate would-be code thieves, 
Yale Communications now requires 
that callers punch their access codes 
after the number they are calling 
rather than before. 

Furthermore, 
starting late 
this spring, 
the 
department may begin including the 
number from which calls originate on 
students' bills. 

But some phone problems won't go 
away. Yale Communications will still 
charge callers for staying on the line 
longer than 35 seconds, (for overseas, 
45 seconds) whether or not someone 
You can dance if you want to. 

6 The New Journal/April 17, 1987 
has picked up on the other end. One 
student reported $20.00 in phone 
charges "just to hear the operator say, 
'We're sorry. All overseas lines are 
busy now.' "Yale's system is simply not 
sophisticated enough to detect when 
someone has picked up. According to 
Euben, such feedback equipment costs 
too much. 

Students already object to the cost of 
phone service. Actually, they pay less 
than New Haven 
residents. The 
YALENET monthly charge for 
BASIC is $14.00, billed as a lump fee 
at the beginning of the year. SNETCO 
charges $16.35 
per month for 
equivalent service. 
Y ALENET 
charges five percent less than SNET 
for instate c'!-lls, and five percent less 
than MCI for long distance. Next .year 
Y ALENET may offer an even cheaper 
alternative for those willing to sacrifice 
long-distance calling: a special rate to 
get a dial tone for on-carppus calls 
only. Perhaps the phone company will 
finally install a welcome change. 


**Title: Stepping Out**
**Page number(s): 6**

Stepping Out
For those who still suffer pangs of 
embarrassment over last December's 
Holiday ball or nervously anticipate 
this year's prom, the Yale Ballroom 
Dancing Club may provide hope. 
Missing her ballroom dancing days at 
M IT, Julie Forman (GRD '90) helped 
Stu Weinzimer (PC '88) organize the 
club last semester. "When I first got 
here," she saif:t, "there was no ballroom· 
dancing club and I cried and cried all 
year. This year I decided to stop crying 
and just start one." 

By following Yale College Council 
guidelines for forming a club, Forman 
and Weinzimer gained a small initial 
budget which they spent on. prelim-
inary advertising for the group. The 
organization now suppor.ts itself, 
relying on a nominal attendance fee to 
cover the cost of the instructors. Elaine 
Mills Solerno, a professional instructor 
who teaches ballroom dancing at 
Payne Whitney Gymnasium, conducts 
the class. She is assisted by Liz Napier 
(Law '90), who teaches one out of four 
sessions. Napier took lessons at a dance 
studio for several years before she 
came to Yale. "There is a real sub-
culture of ballroom dancing. I used to 
go dancing four nights a week at least," 
she said. 

The Yale Ballroom Dancing Club 
and the classes offered at Payne 
Whitney differ in both cost and spirit. 
The fee for the club is $2.00 a person 
per session or $10.00 for a semester-
long membership, 
as opposed 
tO 
$40.00 a couple at the gym. In 
addition, the club is less formal. It 
meets Sunday afternoon in the Dwight 
Hall common room from 2:00 until 
whenever the last couple drags their 
feet from the floor. And unlike Payne 
Whitney, it does not subscribe to the 



**Title: Noah's Ark theory of ballroom dancing**
**Author: Ellm Bresln**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Noah's Ark theory of ballroom dancing; graduate and undergraduate students are encouraged to arrive singly. The dancers switch partners frequently and must introduce themselves before slipping into each others' arms. 

The club consists of a core group of about fifteen students. A comparable number of floaters attend less regularly. Most are beginners, although a few seem instinctively to know a rhumba from a cha-cha. Whether or not a ballroom dancing "sub-culture" exists, most of the members have joined the club "just to have fun and dance." Ellen Barber (SM '87) and Peter Olszowka (SM '87) explained, "We realized the senior prom was coming up, and we didn't know a thing." Others said that they attend the formal dances sponsored by the residential colleges every Christmas and spring and are tired of floundering on the dance floor. "I've wanted to learn for a long ti.me, but I couldn't get into the class at the gym," said Tom Huang (SY '89). 

The club's founders hope to sponsor a dance at the end of the semester. Meanwhile, its members are looking forward- rather confidently, in fact- to the spring dances and senior prom. But now, according to Leon Hwang (TD '87), "the problem will be finding someone else who knows how to do all this." 


**Title: Critical Shortage**
**Author: Pamela Weber**

A travel brochure for the Philippines might boast of warm weather and mangos. It would probably not mention nurses. But to tap this little-known resource, Yale-New Haven Hospital recruitment officers traveled halfway around the globe last December. The hospital staff had hoped to gain more than 20 employees, but only ten candidates had passed their nursing boards and had their visas approved. As a result, the hospital continues to face a serious problem: a conservative estimate places the size of Yale-New Haven's nursing staff at 900, 100 nurses shy of the ideal figure. According to Maureen Egan, Yale-New Haven's Personnel Manager, "There hasn't been a crisis like this in a long time." 

The difficulties at Yale-New Haven reflect a national problem: there are not enough nurses to meet mounting demand. As the Baby Boom generation grows up, improved technology is keeping them and their parents alive longer. As average age increases, the likelihood of sickness and injury grows. In addition, costly insurance polictes are forcing hospitals to reduce the length of in-hospital stays. Consequently, the outpatient industry has grown, requiring still more qualified nurses. 

Despite the demand, low enrollment plagues nursing schools across the country. High school students who are not college-bound tend to enter the work force immediately after graduation, without considering alternatives like nursing school. Working conditions such as bad hours and frequent weekend shifts discourage many prospective nurses. For some, nursing's frustrations outweigh its rewards. "If I could have another chance, I would never choose the profession," said Maureen Kangley, a Registered Nurse at Yale-New Haven Hospital since 1976. The current shortage makes the job more unpleasant. Kangley and other nurses find themselves compensating for missing staff. And the shortage is affecting care. 

Rachel Rotkovitch, vice-president of nursing for Yale-New Haven Hospital, admitted that "patients may sometimes have to wait a long time when they call for a nurse because nurses are so busy." 

Such difficulties have led Rotkovitch on a crusade to recruit nurses for Yale-New Haven. She has scheduled future missions like the Philippine trip to nursing recruitment fairs in England and Ireland this spring. In addition, recruitment officers are stepping up efforts at high schools across the country. 
-
Pamela Weber 
The New Journal/April 17, 1987 7 



**Title: Between the Vines**
**Author: Susan Orenstein**
**Page number(s): 9**

Borderline Friends 
Outside the window of the bus, the square, sand-colored houses of a project looked like a geometric pattern repeating itself down the street. I waited to see the sign of the Sunshine Grocery, my cue to get off. Once outside, I found the number on Evelyn's house, the porch and the front steps, the door and the staircase to the apartment. A large black woman with a blue-patterned scarf around her head unlocked the door, or rather unhooked the bent nail that held it in place. 
"You're Susan, right?" Her voice was deep and husky. "I'm Evelyn's mother. Hello." 

She led me towards tl:te kitchen where something was frying. Four children moved around the table and stove, the smallest trying to climb into a chair. "Evelyn's not ready yet," her mother said. "But I been wanting to meet you." Self-conscious, I sat at the far side of the table trying to look responsible, caring, open, not too pushy, and less scared. But Evelyn's mother barely glanced at my study of expressions. She was busy with the chicken on the stove, one of the children pulling the pants right off her waist. 

Evelyn didn't come in until her mother called her. We had permission to take a walk down the street, and for the next hour or so we started getting used to each other. At fourteen, Evelyn was a head taller than I was, muscular and long-legged , her stride even and calm. In bold matching outfits and large hooped gold earrings, she looked older than I did walking down the street. 
"H i, this is Susan. She's my big sister," she said to a friend of hers on our way home that day. She said it as if I'd lived in her house all along, as if we had the same traces of her mother's voice in us. For the next year and a half, our visits together always started the same way. I got on the bus, rode to the Sunshine Grocery, and ended up in Evelyn's kitchen. We took long walks down Congress, catching up on school or the latest boyfriend. 

Our language separated u s. Evelyn did not know what college meant, she had never heard of being Jewish. And I could only guess the meaning of her "homegirls" and jumped the first time she said "niggers" to mean boys. Much of what she said had a shock element- stories, for example, of fifteen-year olds with several children, all by different fathers, or a boy who killed him~e lf playing Russian Roulette. Evelyn doesn't seem like the right person to describe ugly things. Her mouth is always read y to smile, and she laughs in short, happy squeals. The squeals made some of the things she said even more surprising. She told me she would never have children and would never believe a man when he told her he loved her. "No way," she said. "I'm not having no baby. Uh-uh." 

M y first VISlt with Evelyn was m March of my freshman year. When I called the next week, her mother answered the phone. She invited me back not to her house but to her kitchen, and I sensed the distinction wasn't trivial. "Hello Susan. Yeah, this is Evelyn's mother." I said hello and waited, glad my nervousness was hidden on the phone. "I want to tell you Susan, when you was coming over, I thought, I just can't be nothing but myself, you know, and how's it gonna be letting someone into my kitchen and see me. But if you want you come back, okay?" 

Evelyn's second-floor apartment has four rooms: her mother's bedroom, living room, kitchen and children's room. A large TV in her mothec's bedroom stays on loud. The furniture doesn't match , and hanging beads separate the rooms instead of doors. What's most distinctive about the apartment is the smell. It smells like Evelyn's mother cooking her food, like her brand of cigarettes and her particular kind of soap. The smell is something I can't describe but only know, something intimate that makes me feel close to Evelyn. 

Our ·walks down Congress con-tinued the next year. Occasionally, we went to the mall, to the Yale Art Gallery, to Old Campus. And a number of times we went on her family errands. During my sophomore year, a week before Thanksgiving, I went over and waited in the living room. because Evelyn's mother and grandmother talked in the kitchen. Both of them large women, they laughed with their hands down over their knees, stumbling around the room. At one point they were out of view, and I realized I couldn't understand what they were saying. Their voices had grown thick with
The New JournaVApril 17, 1987 9 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Susan Orenstein**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
southern dialect, and only bits and 
pieces came through. For the most 
part, they spoke so quickly the ends of 
their sentences trailed off in low, 
barely audible words. 


I kept thinking they were talking to 
me, and not wanting to ignore them I 
jumped up three times. Finally, they 
came into the living room. Evelyn's 
grandmother stuck out her hand to 
meet me, then swept me up i!1 a hug. 
She was sending Evelyn and me on an 
errand 
to 
buy 
a 
lottery 
ticket, 
buttermilk, and snuff. I thought for a 
second, remembering snuff from a 
song, but unable to picture it at the 
market. 

We started at the liquor store to buy 
the lottery ticket. Evelyn's grand-
mother had already picked a number 
as she did every day, so far without 
success. Ticket in hand, we went to the 
Congress Supermarket, a large store 
with selections of Spanish dishes in 
addition to the usual foods. In the 
refrigerated section tucked in the back 
was our buttermilk. Before leaving, we 
spent another ten minutes helping a 
woman find a stick of lard for frying. 
She looked bored and tired, but her 
face brightened at the sight of Evelyn. 
Somehow we just couldn't find the 
lard, and with Evelyn holding her arm 
to steady her, the woman laughed at 
the shelves of food, in some way very 
funny then, every row like a head 
shaking no, the lard isn't here. We 
finally found it and went to buy the 
snuff. Going into the next store was 
like entering a cave. Only a faint light 
was on, and we weaved past the figures 
of several men standing around the 
room, their eyes trailing Evelyn. She 
bought the snuff, and I was glad to 
leave there and go home. 

We walked up to the side of her 
grandmother's house, 
and two 
wrinkled hands reached out from the 
basement window. I felt like part of a 
secret transaction as the hands quickly 
pulled in the, _goods. T hen they pulled 

in 
my own hands. 
"Susan, 
for 
Thanksgiving what're you thinking to 
do? I got the whole room here, only for 
myself, and you come eat with us if 
you want. You can see how much 
room I got." 

By the time I came back to Yale this 
past fall, Evelyn, her family and I 
openly expressed our affection. I loved 
calling when Evelyn answered the 
phone because her greeting would 
change at the souno of my voice. 
Hello, she would repeat, but with a 
squeal. Her mother hugged me when I 
came over, her arms wrapped around 
me as she laughed. She would ask me 
to watch her kids while she went to the 
store, or she would send me to the store 
instead. Now she didn't apologize for 
the clutter, the ripped housedress she 
was wearing. One afternoon as I was 
leaving she put her hands on my 
shoulders for a few seconds, and her 
eyes-often darting from the front 
door to a child crying to something 
cooking on the stove- momentarily 
became calm and looked directly at 
me. She tightened her grip on my 
shoulders. "You two, you been good 
girls," she said. 

This year, Evelyn talked less about 
school and more about boyfriends. 
During our first visit in September, we 
sat in the Chapel Square Mall for two 
hours drinking cokes. She told me 
about Bobby, the first to break her 
heart. "All of a sudden he didn't call, 
and my homegirl, right, she said she 
seen him with this other girl, only I 
knew he didn't love her 'cause he loved 
me, right. And lhen that same girl I 
heard from someone else he was with 
her again, and I heard this one night 
he was at my homegirl's house, on her 
porch, right, and I went there and he 
said Evelyn I guess maybe you want 
your chains back and I said well, 
Bobby when did I ever say that, right, 
and he took them off his neck and I just 
couldn't even look at him then, Susan, 
I just couldn't look, and I went home 
and no one was there and the phone 
rang but I didn't get up, and then I 
took a bath, Susan, for a long time. 
My homegirl called and wanted to 
come over but I said no, and Susan I 
picked up them chains, right, in my 
bed, and well, he had this wavy kind of 
hair with oil on it, and the chains 
smelled like the oil being around his 
neck, and I just pulled them up to my 
face, and I smelled him Susan, oh my 
god I cried and cried. And now, I just 
don't know, I don't know, 'cause we 
never stopped loving each other, 
Susan." 

Despite her sadness over Bobby, 
Evelyn still smiled as she talked, and 
she giggled over the question of 
whether or not I had grown over the 
summer. I was shocked a few weeks 
later when her mother told me she had 
run away from home. The news made 
me feel franticalJy worried about her 
safety and whereabouts. In all our 
talks, she had given no hint that she 
was ever considerin~ leaving home. 
And I could only wonder what made 
her leave, what forces I knew nothing 
about. ·since October, Evelyn h;tS 
<.:orne home for a short period, then 
gone to live with another boyfriend. I 
still call and leave messages that her 
mother promises to relay. 

Last month marked two years since 
first met Evelyn. I keep remembering 
what happened when I left her that 
first day. It was a Sunday, and I waited 
at the bus stop looking at the buildings 
in the growing darkness, the shadows 
and the handwritten words on the 
church door beside .me, "Sunday 
service, all welcome 6:00." People 
started trickling in. I received a nod or 
two as families walked into church, 
some followed by a man or woman 
alone, a straggler summoned at the 
door. Immediately, I felt more at home 
in the neighborhood. As voices began a 
hymn, I smiled thinking about the 
faces, thinking I knew them. But a few 
minutes later, it occurred to me what I 
must have looked like from a distance. 
from down the street, my body leaning 
against 
the church door. 
An 
emptiness replaced my smile, a feeling 
that could only have been one thing, 
longing for home. 
Susan Orenstein, a junior in Trumbull, lS 
managing ediwr of TN]. 
Evelyn is a pseudonym. 




**Leaps and Bounds**
**Author: Skye Wilson**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Art and artists: Mary Barnett, Sandra Kopell and Judith Phelps reh ear se in the 
Sculpture Garden for National Museum Day. 
Leaps and Bounds 
Skye Wilson 
.. 
"I don't know what the 
hell I'm doing when I 
go into rehearsal. I 
just have the faith that 
it will come to m e." 
When 
the Chapel Square 
Mall 
reopened 
in 
1984, choreographer 
Sandra Kopell performed a special 
dedication. "Two shopping nymphs 
danced around the fountain," she 
explains. "Thf' soundtrack was 
Muzak, and we threw money and 
were burdened by oversized credit 
cards. We also danced on the escalator 
as part of the performance. Looking 
back. r wish I had done an entire piece 
on the escalator." 


The~: dance 
took 
place 
at 
the 
bcginning of Kopell's career as a New 
Ha,·~·n artist. Two years later she met 
\.-1ary Ramett and .Judith Phelps. also 
mod~·rn clancc. choreographers. and the 
thn·e women began to work together to 
create claoK~·s and en~nts at which to 
perform tht·m. Tht•ir first efforts have 
paid off. as laq(t'r crowds attend their 
pl"rfonnances. The n·sult. clann·rs 
agn·~·. is <• resurgcm·e of community 
intt'l"t·~t in an art that has attraned 
littk support for the past ten years, 
since New Haven's dance scene went 
into decline. But as yet, this renewed 
interest has not generated broad-based 
community support or the kind of 
financial backing necessary to sustain a 
sizeable dance movement. The idea of 
modern dance elicits shrugs of 
ignorance from many people who 
think of all dance as ballet, and 
grimaces 
from 
others 
who 
view 
modern as too surreal, too cerebral, or 
just too weird. Through audience 
education and 
greater exposure, 
Barnett, Kopell, and Phelps hope to 
make their work more accepted and to 
smooth ·the way for other choreo-
graphers. 

According to Kopell, the modern 
dance scene had dwindled d rastically 
,.,•hen she arri\'ed in New Haven from 
New York four years ago. Government 
cutbacks had eliminated the three 
main companies and schools, and 
many choreographers had left for New 
York, at that time considered the 
center for 
modern dance. 
K opell 
organized several projects herself, such 
as a dance marathon for the New 
Ha,·en- Leon, Nicaragua Sister City 
Project. but the major turnaround did 
not 
occur until 
last 
year 
when 


approximately 
eight 
local 
dancers 
formed a choreographers' workshop. 
The showcase of resulting work 
became Dance Gallery, now in its 
second year. By the second set of 
performances last January, audiences 
had grown from family and friends to 
sell-out crowds totalling more than 150 
people. 

The Dance Gallery also 
brought Barnett, Kopell, and Phelps 
together. 

In rehearsal for a work Kopell has 
choreographed 
for 
Yale 
Art 
Gallery's National Museum Day on 
May 16 and 1 7, the three display 
individual styles that clearly 
distinguish modern dance from ballet. 
Layers of leotards, tights, parachute 
pants, and t-shirts cover bodies that 
are solid and muscular, not emaciated. 
The dancers' feet, not clad in toeshoes,. 
remain bare. Kopell explores each 
movement of her dance with the 
detachment of a painter evaluating her 
brush strokes. The other dancers 
provide a study in contrasts: Barnett 
moves energetically, like an 
enthusiastic child, while Phelps 
appears 
implacably 
self-assured. 
Kopell beats two sticks together to 
provide rhythm as the dancers run 
through the piece again and again. 
Occasionally she gives instructions, 
always on the beat. "And keep breath-
ing," she prompts. "And a gallop, hop, 
brush. Nice!" The dancers finish by 
bumping into a studio wall. 

In the studio, the dancers work 
without outside commentary. Once on 
stage, their monologue becomes a 
shared conversation, in which the 
audience may participate with 
applause or with silence. "Sometimes I 
worry about getting too artsy," Kopell 
admits. Nevertheless, she feels that 
inexperienced viewers need not under-
stand the message of a dance to appre-
ciate the movement. Modern choreo-
graphers usually do not have a linear 
story in mind when they compose; they 
select images to evoke an emotional 
reaction. For example, a poem Barnett 
wrote 
college entitled "Going 
Under," dealing with a childhood oper-
ation, sparked one of her works for 
Dance Gallery. "I had surgery on my 
eyes when I was three years old. It's 
obviously something 
I 
don't 
remember, but it made me think of 
surgery as a metaphor for opening. On 
one hand it could be bloody, but it also 
could be the most intimate thing," she 
says. The choreography for this piece 
calls for three dancers, one ladder, one 
poet on top of the ladder, and one man 
in an armchair reading the fluorescent 
pink, yellow, and green pages of a 
newspaper. The dancers take on a 
steely pose with arms jutting up and 
legs balancing at right angles to one 
another. Perched upon the ladder, the 
poet recites "Going Under" and then 
descends to join the dancers. Toward 
the end of the piece, the man in the 
armchair rolls off into the wings. 

Obviously, Barnett does not make 
each movement a symbol for her 
metaphor once she begins to create a 
dance. "I don't set out with a plan 
necessarily, or an idea that I want to 
express. I'm not contemplating my 
navel. I don't know what the hell I'm 
doing when I go into rehearsal. I just 
have the faith that it will come to me," 
she says. Phelps relies on a somewhat 
more methodical procedure: she takes 
an abstract idea such as "how objects 
come together" and redirects it into a 
specific image. That particular idea 
evolved into a dance called "Merging" 
based on the movement of large 
knitting needles; she and Barnett knot 
themselves up in a giant white rope. 

Kopell relies on more visual stimuli 
to inspire her choreography. Formerly 
a full-time graphic designer and illus-
trator, 
she often uses artistic or 
commercial 
icons 
to 
convey her 
message. "I really enjoy taking still 
images and making them move. It's 
kind of like connect-the-dots," she says. 
For a piece Kopell performed in D ance 
Gallery, she played the White R ock 
girl while Barnett portrayed the 
Morton Salt trademark. T hey demon-
strated supermarket folk dances as a 
professor "lectured" on shopping 
rituals. More recently, Kopell has 
moved from the shopping aisles to the 
art gallery halls, with pieces based on 
two paintings by Matisse and on the 
H enry M oore woman in the Sculpture 
Garden. The latter dance's message, 
she says, is more abstruse than those of 
her previous works, moving away from 
the satirical edge that characterized 
many of her earlier pieces. 

Kopell's recent work, along with that 
of Barnett and Phelps, may still scare 
off viewers who are more comfortable 
with images and stories they can 
readily identify. "There's a difference 
between art and entertainment. If you 
don't have to bring part of yourself to 
the performance, then you're looking 
at the Rockettes," she says. But to help


**A New Haven Dance Scene**
**Author: Skye Wilson**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
audience members feel more comfortable with this art medium, Phelps hopes to begin a series of informal dance presentations with Barnett and Kopell, followed by question-and-answer sessions. For now, though, the choreographers rely on word-of-mouth to engage people's interest. 

Each of the women, however, criticizes Yale for not helping to provide an educated audience. Yale, New Haven's most far-ranging cultural center and most influential corporation, does not provide any significant support, financial or otherwise, to dance. "Yale just doesn't respect dance or cultivate it. Dance history is a great anthropological tool,'' Kopell says. 

According to Kopell, both Wesleyan University in Middletown and Trinity College in Hartford have several dance courses within their regular curriculum. These colleges also bring in outside performers. In contrast, Yale's only dance offerings consist of a modern composition college seminar, taught every fall by instructor Barbara Feldman, and informal, non-credit physical education classes at the gym. 

Feldman points out that Yale has inadequate space for dance, and therefore cannot invite outside companies to perform on-campus. 

New Haven also faces the typical small-city struggles in finding enough dancers and enough funds for classes and performances. Phelps often must act as businesswoman as well as dancer and choreographer. At the beginning of one class she sat by the door with a list of dancers, accosting them as they walked into the studio. She needed to collect money from at least 15 people to hire a new teacher. By the end of the class, not enough dancers had contributed to ensure that the teacher would take the job. In a world with no stable financial backing, salaries are paid up front. 

In addition, male dancers are in short supply. An average class of 20 people includes only two or three men; one of these may dance with a local company, which restricts him from working for other choreographers. "Dance in America is considered a feminine art form, and men may think that only women can get involved. If they don't receive some exposure to dance in college, it can be that much scarier to take a class," Barnett comments. Recognizing the difficulties faced by both men and women in the profession, Kopell adds, "I think everyone in the dance world is frustrated in some way. But if you want to do it badly enough, you do it where you are and work with what you have." 

Despite their frustrations, these women will continue to choreograph and dance. In a largely uninitiated community, exposing audiences to dance will also remain a high priority. Given the intensity with which Barnett, Kopell and Phelps work, they should succeed in revitalizing the New Haven modern dance scene. But even if they fail, if audiences reject poets on ladders and white ropes, it won't really matter. "I am obsessed with dance. I don't find anything else as satisfying," Kopell says. "I just can't wait to get into the studio." 


**Title: A Passion Preserved**
**Author: Hugh Kennedy**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Anyone who settles down to an afternoon of research in Sterling knows the maddening frustration of turning up six catalog cards in a row marked "Mudd Library." The thought of traveling half a mile up Prospect Street makes any books listed there seem a little less desirable. But a Yale library even further away than Mudd proves that traveling does have its rewards. Just over 40 miles outside of New Haven in Farmington, CT, the Lewis Walpole maintains a rich collection of eighteenth-century books, prints and artifacts. It suffers only from a lack of patronage; after decades of informal and eight years of formal operation, it has not become the center for British Studies it deserves to be.

Short of rolling the house and library all the way to College Street, the librarians at the Lewis Walpole have made every effort to entice senior essay writers and Ph.D. scholars from Yale and beyond. Needless to say, no one fights over appointments. In fact, staff members eagerly pick patrons up at the nearest railway station, and every researcher using the Walpole is assigned their own personal librarian. For long-term projects, there are lavish sleeping quarters available (which beats falling asleep in the stacks). And anyone who does arrive at the grounds is sure to feel a thrill of imperialist pleasure, for the Walpole is truly a cultural find.

Part library and museum of the English eighteenth century, part residence and a good part reliquary, the Lewis Walpole Library of Yale University demurely sits at 154 Main Street in Farmington, about an hour from New Haven. There are no weenie bins, circulation desks or water fountains, but there are halls doubling as portrait galleries, overstuffed leather chairs and tea with chocolate biscuits served promptly at 3:30 on weekdays. If J. Press and the Cooper-Hewitt Museum joined forces to become a library, they would create something like the Lewis Walpole.

Marie Devine, the librarian, greets dissertation writers and visitors alike at the entry to the Side Hall of the building. Something about her chatty enjoyment of an arrival reminds you of entering your own aunt's house- or perhaps Charlotte Bronte's. Flicking off a bedroom light switch in the Hall she chuckles warmly, "I swear there's a ghost in here. Someone's been turning on all the little lights." A visitor who has just stepped out of rural Northern Connecticut into a chilly 200-year-old Anglophile building may respond tentatively to such a welcome. But as Devine begins to outline the history of the Lewis Walpole to visitors, her enthusiasm about the place becomes infectious.


Because the Lewis Walpole Library served until very recently as a serious collector's home as well as a research center, visits properly begin with a tour. A good start might be an excursion through the minds of two men, because no one named Lewis Walpole ever existed. In fact, the library's title combines the names of the owner of the house, Wilmarth Sheldon "Lefty" Lewis, (1895-1979, Yale '18), and the great English social chronicler Horace Walpole, (1717-1797), whose life and letters became Lewis' passion. A look into the meticulous efforts with which Lewis followed his hero- he compiled a record of everything Walpole did every day for a 60-year period-gives the compound name Lewis Walpole new meaning.

In day-to-day life Wilmarth Lewis was known to everyone as "Lefty," but in other ways he began to blur with a man born 200 years before him. Horace Walpole, whose effigy appears on walls throughout the house, is best known as the writer who unleashed the first Gothic romance, The Castle of Otranto, on the world. As the son of Sir Robert Walpole, prime minister under George I and II, young Walpole used his Eton and Cambridge education not to pursue parliament or the military life but to pursue an early retirement from public life, writing and establishing his own printing press at his Twickenham villa, Strawberry Hill. He also developed friendships with contemporary socialites like Lady Louisa Stuart and the bluestocking Hannah More, and left behind over 7,000 letters from a lifetime of correspondence. His estate, now St. Mary's College at Strawberry Hill, still serves the academic world, but over two-thirds of the books and letters Walpole owned and wrote now reside in "Lefty" Lewis' home.

Lewis, like Walpole, came from a pampered background and actively pursued civic affairs throughout his life. After earning an undergraduate degree at the Thatcher School and a graduate degree from Yale, he went on to become a senior member of the Yale Corporation and a fellow of the American Philosophical Society, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the Royal Society of Literature. His central passion, however, lay elsewhere. Retiring to pursue the pleasures of inherited wealth at the ripe age of 26, Lewis discovered some lively Louisa Stuart notes in a volume of John Heneage Jesse's George Selwyn and his Contemporaries that he purchased in London. While tracking Stuart's name, Lewis found her favorably compared to an "inimitable gossip" named Horace Walpole. Very soon afterwards he discovered that Walpole references in eighteenth century letters were like capillaries leading back to a heart. Apparently, this man had either seen or heard about every social, medical, or political happening of the day and had described it to someone in intimate detail. Not long after this discovery, Lewis bought his first Horace Walpole letter.

Lewis' initial interest in Walpole's letters grew to an obsession that filled his days and emptied his coffers. He used his and his wife Annie Burr Auchincloss's considerable fortune to track down and buy any Walpole work, Strawberry Hill press book or fragment of Walpoliana he could get his hands on. What he couldn't buy he bartered for with the major libraries of the country. For over 50 years Lewis headed the committee that edited and published the monstrous 48-volume Yale Edition of Horace Walpole's Correspondence. His death prevented him from witnessing the publication of the last volumes in 1983, but by the late seventies he had amassed more information about Horace Walpole than one person has probably amassed about anyone. Right up to his death in 1979, Lewis encouraged scholars to visit and work with him. His house and its nine separate libraries, totalling 30,000 books and 37,000 prints, all relate to Walpole in the eighteenth century- or as Lewis and many other scholars have contended, Walpole as the eighteenth century. From the entrance hall lantern taken from Twickenham that hangs in the East Library to the precisely imitative arrangement of Walpole's own manuscripts and letters in the North Library, the Lewis Walpole appears as bent on its own brand of authentic restoration as Plymouth Plantation or a 1:1 scale map out of Borges' Labyrinths.

In fact, "Borges would have loved this place," Marie Devine laughs, standing below a print of Walpole's library that dictates one area of shelf order. Sometimes, Lewis attempted more than mere duplication. Near the end of the Long Hall, for example, an imposing black door is built into the wall. A bronze 11 is screwed into it at chest level. "Walpole had a residence at 11 Berkeley Square," Devine explains, drawing out a weathered photograph of London and pointing to a facade with a black door. "Mr. Lewis rescued it when the house was being torn down in the 30's."


She adds that in Lewis' later years, former librarian Catherine Jestin often wheedled him into dropping his own harsh notes to fellow colleagues and critics into the letter slot of the Walpole door. It seems logical that the same man who laid out Walpole's paintings, furniture and books just as Walpole might have wanted would drop his own letters through Walpole's former front door.

Lefty Lewis' print collection reveals that he developed some of Walpole's other tastes, too. Joan Sussler, Curator of Prints at the Lewis Walpole, works out of a large, recessed space that was until recently a squash court in Lewis' house. In her position she oversees the largest collection of Hogarth prints- some of Walpole's favorites- outside of England (over 700) and collections of major caricature artists of the day such as Henry Bunbury and Thomas Patch. The system of indexing by date, title, artist, engraver, publisher and subject matter developed by Lewis' wife makes cross-referencing extremely smooth. "For instance," she says, indicating a print of an


**Annual End of School Champagne Sale**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 22**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
ANNUAL 
END OF SCHOOL 
CHAMPAGNE SALE 
MOET & CHANDON 
BRUTN.Y. 
21.49 
BOLLINGER 
PER RIERJOUET 
DEUTZ 
18.99 
12.99 
VEUVE CLICQUOT 2.3 .99 
YELLOW LABEL 
SPARKLING WINES 
ON SALE 
CODOR NIU 
4.99 
BRUT CLASS! CO 
SEGURA VIUDAS 
PAUL C HENEAU 
5.99 
BLANC DE BLANCS 
FREXENET 
CORDON NEGRO 
MART INI & ROSSI 
9.79 
ASTI SPUMANTE 
FOLONARI 
()<!)in's 
t)ottte 
5t)op 
ONE WHITNEY AVE. 
562-7714 
22 The New Journal/April 17. 1987 


<br/>

**The Lewis Walpole Library**
**Author: Hugh Kennedy**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

He compiled a record 
of everything Walpole 
did every day for a 
60-year period. 
eighteenth century dinner party, "I can 
find at least 30 prints with references to 
corkscrews in them." Using the system, 
she can look up visual data on anything 
else from curtains to chimney sweeps 
in the library's prints. 
In the print room she and Devine 
haul out a gigantic three by two foot 
volume of H ogarth prints. "It's an 
elephant folio," she laughs, "that's all I 
can say." Turning through the .prints 
she explains how the original H ogarth 
collector George Steevens lined them 
up in various states and editions to 
make comparison easier. She pauses at 
a page showing the infamous English 
murderess Sarah Malcolm in a dozen 
printed states of the same pose. After 
the prints she produces a true piece de 
resistance, an actual copper plate of 
Hogarth's famous satire "The Sleeping 
Congregation" 
used 
to 
press out 
copies. The bookseller's 1967· price still 
affixed 
the 
back 
momentarily 
distracts her. "Ninety pounds," she 
says with pride. Apparently, Mr. 
Lewis had 
not only a 
collector's 
enthusiasm, but an eye for a good 
bargain as well. 
While the print room and much of 
the Lewis Walpole exclusively reflects 
Walpole's character, the New Library 
gives both men expression. Paintings 
of Walpole and his relatives hang from 
the walls, while a framed photograph 
of Lewis meeting with his cousin John 
F. Kennedy sits on a low table. There 
are two eight-foot cast-iron lanterns 
from Strawberry Hill at the arched 
entryway, and shelves of eighteenth-
century literature next to twentieth-
century critical volumes. Walpole's 
prized objects, such as a lacquered 
wooden box accented with Wedgwood 
and lapis lazuli that he had built to 
hold a friend's drawings, stand beside 
Lewis' favorite leather chairs and 
desks. The 1 $ense of wholeness the 
books, furniture, objects and space 
produce could not be more strategic or 
more natural. 

If the Walpole visitor. tires after 
hours of gawking, walking or re-
searching, the staff prepares tea in the 
white, sunlit kitchen at 3:30. More 
often than not, the four wom_en take 



this tea alone. Tourists make up the 
majority of visitors, and almost all 
research questions are handled by 
phone or through the mail. The last 
patron using the library for long-term 
research left late in 1986. Though 
Devine has only been at Yale for a few 
months, she is already surprised at 
how few faculty members use it. 
"Jacqueline Kennedy, 
Mr. 
Lewis' 
niece by marriage, used to drop 
around," she says casuaJly. 
The 
allusion brings up the subject of 
friendly relations with the nearby Miss 
Porters school, where the First Lady 
once prepped. A senior English class 
from the school reading Walpole's The 
Castle of Otranto has been through on a 
tour recently. Otherwise, the cold 
months tend to be the slowest. 
Even without 
regular visitors, 
Devine contents herself with keeping 
the Wa.Jpole presentable to company. 
Fully absorbed in her surroundings, 
she sighs, "The beauty is just lovely." 
In fact, her words make sense applied 
to the Lewis Walpole, whose name-
sakes balance and complement one 
another. Everywhere Lewis and his 
staff have recreated the pleasures of the 
contemplative and epistolary life 
Horace Walpole 
led. 
The added 
dimension of Lefty Lewis' effects only 
doubles that sense. Both library and 
librarian are ready for as many visitors 
as time will permit. Lefty Lewis' own 
invitation to "come and have a Walpole 
wallow" still echoes in the halls. 
• 
Hugh Kennedy is a senior in Ezra Stiles. 



**The Course of Neglect**
**Author: James Bennet**
**Page number(s): 24**

"It's your education, 
how do you want me 
to spend the 15 hours? 
Shall I grade your 
midterms this week, 
or shall we discuss the 
reading?" 
24 The New Journal/April 17, 1987 
"We need a name. I've been referring 
to us as the TA Action Group." 
It is 8:30 on Thursday night in 
Machine City, and the meeting has 
just started. Laughter of students 
sitting at distant tables mixes with the 
sporadic chatter of the change 
machine, drifting to the round table in 
the back where four angry teaching 
assistants sit 
waiting 
for their 
colleagues and thinking of a name. 
"TAs for a better Yale, we could call 
ourselves." 
"But we need a good acronym-you 
know, like POOR." 
"Let's use some Middle Eastern 
imagery. 
Let's 
call ourselves 
Graduate Student United Front." The 
woman pauses, grinnmg. "Or the Arm 
nf God." 
Now three other graduate students 
arrive and the selection of a name is 
put on hold. One woman draws a 
xeroxed circular from her knapsack 
and scatters copies around the table. 
After discussing the letter, the others 
agree to distribute it to all graduate 
students. "Don't WannaBe Your Beast 
Of Burden," the text proclaims. "TAs 
say 'No More Exploitation.'" It goes on 
to describe the two concerns which 
unite the members of the group: low 
salaries and the lack of job descriptions 
to standardize the levels of teaching 
assistants (TAs) throughout Yale's 
departments. Individually; many TAs 
complain about each of these issues; 
the members of this nameless group 
believe that they can unite their peers to 
address both. 



**Title: The Spectre of TA Solidarity**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Two weeks later, on April 8, the 
same seven TAs have again gathered 
in Machine City. They now have a 
name: the TA Solidarity Group. And 
they also have company. Eighteen 
graduate students and one representa-
tive of Local 34 cluster around the 
table,· drawing curious glances from 
undergraduates. The mood has 
changed. Gone are the joking and the 
casual digressions of the first meeting. 
Other than the original seven, most 
seem not to know 
each other. 

Common experience and common 
anger have brought them together in 
Machine City. If no one addresses 
their concerns, common frustration 
may bring them to the picket lines. 
The group began building slowly last 
t Eat l.>restt 
over 2",.,." of lhe people tc:tclung at V I 
cs rro 11 \ml'uc:ut Studrcs to \\~11ncu's Studrcc; and 
mg in bet ccn 
We arc dcd c. l<'d sch 1l ns nl.l tc c her.: 
to 111. c end~ meet "lule pUJsulng our own de rces We 
:tk-; lAs 
\Vc '' anl \ ou to all end a I Ollllll on 
T/\ P10hlcms: Realities ami Ptospccts 
fall. Rhonda Lieberman (GRD '90) 
and Anna Blume (GRD '90) met with 
Yale administrators last semester to 
complain 
about 
the TA 
system. 
Through 
the 
Committee on the 
Graduate School, an 
advisory 
committee to the graduate deans, they 
persuaded the Graduate School to 
distribute a questionnaire to all TAs at 
the beginning of April. The letter to 
the administration accompanying the 
survey warned, "A spectre is haunting 
Yale-the spectre of TA solidarity." 
Feeling that the administration would 
not go far enough in changing the 
system, Lieberman and Blume turned 
to other TAs to build a collective voice. 
Lieberman says that the graduate 
students 
they have contacted re-
sponded enthusiastically. "People were 
so relieved to find out that others 
were in dire straits financially. They 
just thought they had been given a raw 
deal as individuals." The TAs found 
that they share other criticisms. Yale, 
they say, provides them with no job 
descriptions, 
no job training, 
no 
explanation for their pay, and nowhere 
to take their complaints. Some TAs say 
that feeling exploited leads them to 
resent their undergraduate students, 
who they say are the University's 
priority. More frequently, TAs refer 
affectionately to their "kids" and worry 
that poor pay and long hours prevent 
them from teaching effectively. 
Proud of encouraging contact 
between undergraduates and faculty, 
Yale's 
administrators have resisted 
expansion of the TA system. Before 


Rhonda Lieberman (GRD '90): being a graduate student at Yale is like "being a 
townie at a resort." 

1972, when the University provided 
most graduate students full fellowshtps 
covering tuition and living expenses, 
assisting a professor in the College was 
considered a privilege; TAs earned an 
honorarium of S300 a semester. But as 
fellowship funds shrank in the late '60s 
and early '70s, Yale began encouraging 
graduate students to work in the 
College to support themselves. And the 
number of 1'As grew. 

The Humanities and Social Sciences 
now offer their students stipends of 
varying 
amounts 
to 
cover living 
expenses for the first 2 years. after 
which they expect them to teach. 
Last year, 967 graduate students 
worked one or two semesters as TAs, 
filling 
1521 
teaching appoint-
ments. According to Robert Bunsel-
meyer, associate dean of the Graduate 
School, "I think it's true that Yale, 
having started from an honorarium 
system, has a bit of historical drag." 
The TA system has not matured as 
the number of TAs has grown, and it 
has no mechanism to set matters right. 
The Provost's office, which finances 

the TA program, has no standing 
committee to receive and evaluate 
complaints. The Graduate School, to 
which many TAs turn for help, has no 
power to address their problems. 
Though 
the group gathered in 
Sterling does not have a formal hierarchy, 
Yvette Huginnie (GRD '89) has taken 
control of the meeting, tapping her Bic 
pen against an open palm to emphasize 
her points. When her stipend dried up 
after two years, Huginnie became a 
TA to support herself. Taking a job 
that interrupted her studies and 
reduced her income by S1000, she 
found that her generous educator 
could be an exacting employer. "I feel I 
was in some way decei,·ed, because 
the)' told me I could support myself 
teaching and that's just not true.~ 
The Provost's office divides teaching 
fellows into four levels determined by 
the number of hours a semester they 
work. According to this year's scale, a 
Teaching Fellow 1, such as a grader for 
a large lecture class, works 75 hours a 
semester and earns S850, a TF2 works 
150 hours for S1700, and so on. Now 
in her third semester as a TF3- the 
most common 
T A 
gradation-
Huginnie earns $2550 from Yale per 
term. She scoffs at the Provost's 
esti~ate that a TF3 should work 
approximately 15 hours each week. 
Attending lectures, meeting with the 
professor, preparing for her 
sections-with a combined enrollment 
of 31 students-leading discusssion, 
and providing office hours, she 
estimates that she spends at least 20 
hours a week as a TA. Since the course 
requires a five-page paper, a midterm, 
a 15-page paper, and a final, four 
weeks this semester she will work 
considerably longer than that, grading 
her students' written work. "And for 
that, I'm paid $510 a month. Which 
after taxes is 
$460." She laughs 
bitterly. "I know this." 
This year, the Graduate School set 
its "budget standard"- the cost of 
living for a single person in New 
Haven for nine months- at $7785. A 
TF3, working both terms, can earn 
only $5100. To ease this $2600 deficit, 
Huginnie has taken a second job, 
working at Beinecke Library 10 to 12 
hours each week. But she still finds 
herself in a predicament shared by 
many of her peers: accumulating a 
large loan debt (in her case, $13,000) 
and looking ahead to a career in 
academia, where salaries can support 
few interest payments. 
Since he became dean of the 
Graduate School last July, Jerome 
Pollitt has been trying to address 
graduate students' complaints about 
the TA system. "I would say the 
biggest challenge of my deanship is to 
try to bring some order and regularity 
and fairness into the Teaching Fellow 
program." A slim man with thinning 
reddish blond hair and a soft, clear 
voice, he sits in his office in HGS, 
spring sunshine spilling through the 
large bay windows. "I tried to persuade 
the Provost [William Nordhaus) 10 
form a heavy-weight Provostial com-
mittee to deal with this question," he 
says. Though denied this request, he 
convinced Nordhaus to allow him to 
establish an informal committee 10 
examine the system. Th.e Provost's 


the TA program, 
directed the Pollitt 
Committee to pursue only adminis-
trative issues and to make no recom-
mendations on salaries. 
But the 
committee is examining pay scales at 
other universities and plans to report 
its findings. Isn't that tantamount to 
making recommendations on salaries? 
Pollitt smiles slightly. "There will be no 
formal 
recommendation. 
I 
mean, 
we're certainly not going to keep the 
results of our inquiry secret." H e 
suspects that Yale will have to raise its 
TA salaries to be fair and to remain 
competitive in attracting students. 
The TAs claim Pollitt will discover 
that H arvard's TA salaries exceed 
by 
75 
percent. 
differences in the universities' job 
descriptions hinder comparisons, close 
approximations 
m ay be drawn. 
According to 
H arvard's teaching 
fellow coordinator-, Marilyn Larner, 
a "two-fifths" puts in 20 hours a week 
handling two sections and therefore 
would roughly correlate with Yale's 
TF3. At H arvard, two-fifths this year 
earn $8920. According to Bunsel-
meyer, -who is assisting Pollitt in 
examining the TA system, third and 
fourth year students at Harvard pay a 
'low tuition' of $2,800, while those at 
Yale generally pay none. Apparently,


**The Yale TA System: A Case Study in Inequity**
**Author: Unlisted**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"A major fact of life 1s 
that we're poor." 
then, Harvard's two-fifths net about 20 
percent more from their salaries than 
do Yale's TF3s. 
Huginnie feels that Yale will never 
pay TAs what they are worth, but 
argues that it should pay them at least 
enough to live on. "In that way, the 
undergraduates will get their edu-
cation . .They won't have section leaders 
who are underpaid, overworked-" she 
leans forward, her voice dropping-
"resentful. And Yale will get their 
doctoral candidates out." Huginnie 
seems to regard direct action as the 
TAs' most effective weapon. "As it is 
now," she says, "every graduate stu-
dent 
is donating 
a 
considerable 
amount of money to Yale by working 
20 hours a week. I think there's a lot of 
rc:Jom in there to push some buttons." If 
Yale pays her for only 15 hours a week, 
she argues, she could ask her students, 
"It's your education, how do you want 
me to spend the 15 hours? Shall I grade 
your midterms this week, or shall we 
discuss the reading?" 

Not all the students sitting around 
the table in Machine City share Hu-
ginnie's enthusiasm for using a con-
frontational approach. 
A 
student 
brings up the possibility, and vigorous 
argument breaks out. When one of the 
group's newer members suggests that 
they first try to use the official 
University channels, a woman seated 
across 
from 
him sharply 
replies, 
"They're exhausted." A .gentler voice 
intervenes: "We should at least wait on 
the Pollitt Committee." Throughout 
the meeting, Ray Lurie QE '80, GRD 
'88) has been the voice of mod~ration. 
Now in his fifth year in Renaissance 
Studies, Lurie has taught sections eight 
times in the College. As chairman of 
the Committee on the Graduate 
School, he has been obsessively exam-
ining theTA system for a year. 

On the fifth floor of the Sterling 
stacks, Lurie sits in the office of his 
second job, in the St. Thomas More 
Project, describing the inequities he 
has found in the TA system. Each 
spring, when 
the Provost's · office 
notifies departments of their annual 
allotment for TA salaries, it encloses a 
memo to department · chairmen dis-
tinguishing among the four different 
TA levels. But because this memo 
emphasizes distinctions based on the 
ambiguous index of number of hours 
worked, providing only three sketchy 
models for the types of responsibilities 
TAs perform at different levels, it 
leaves each department great freedom 
for interpretation. As a result, says 
Lurie, "Every department has become 
its own fiefdom." The workload ofT As 
at the same level varies strikingly by 
department. TAs in the Art History 
department reported earning TF2 
wages for working 20 hours a week. 
TF3s in Philosophy and History teach 
two sections; those in English, one. 
Additionally, English T As can earn an 
extra $150 a term by splitting their 
sections in half. Lurie leans back, 
waving his hands in exasperation. "I, 
in the English department, am getting 
paid more to T A half the number of 
students of most of the people I know 
in History." 

Associate Provost Charles Long, who 
wrote the present guidelines, says that 
"There's a lot of m isunderstanding out 
there, which is surprising." Though he 
feels that Yale could never achieve a 
perfectly equitable system, he insists, 
"The last thing we would want to do 
is 
knowingly 
and intentionally 
exploit the graduate students." As a 
member of the Pollitt Committee, 
Long will help come up with more 
descriptive examples of typical TA 
duties to encourage departments to 
standardize their appointments. At 
present, 
the College 
maintains 
contingency fund to upgrade salaries of 
TAs who it determines should be 
higher on the wage scale. But because 
Yale does not provide its TAs with job 
descriptions, many graduate students 
seem unaware both of the pay and 
hours sc!J.les. According to one TA who 
understood the system and had her 
salary raised, "Once you can address 
them on that basis- that you're being 
underpaid on their terms- then they're 
very responsive. But there are very few 
people who know how to do that." 

According to Long, the contingency 
fund would not suffice were many TAs 
at a certain level in one department to 
demand raises. But, he points out, 
there exist other 'Yays to redress 
inequities. For example, professors 
could reduce their 
cours~ require-


--- Page 29 ---

ments: "It would surprise me if there 
weren't courses out there which could 
fruitfully, usefully, responsibly reduce 
the amount of writing they require 
from students." In addition, he says, 
professors could test their students with 
exams based on short-answer 
questions, which require less time to 
grade than essays. But this action 
might come dangerously close to 
replacing the undergraduates' 
academic needs with the University's 
economic ones. 

Long argues that TAs should not 
have to spend much time preparing for 
section. TAs, he says, should have read 
the course material at some point 
during their undergraduate or 
graduate careers; having to read it now 
may indicate that they are not know-
ledgeable in the field. But many TAs 
felt that if they did not reread an 
assigned book they would be short-
changing their students. One English 
TA reacted indignantly to the sug-
gestion that he should already know 
the material. "I couldn't possibly teach 
something that I hadn't read that week. 
It would be irresponsible." 

Sometimes, however, students do 
not have a strong background in the 
courses they teach. Frequently, these 
are students in the so-called "special 
programs"- Medieval Studies , 
Renaissance Studies and Comparative 
Literature. 
Because these small 
departments do not have counterparts 
in the College, their students must 
apply to other departments for jobs. 
And in defiance of the Provost's 
regulations, 
many departments 
discriminate in favor of their own 
students. English, for example, denies 
appointments to only 12 percent of 
applicants from within the depart-
ment, but to 79 percent from without. 
Jonathan Friedman, associate director 
of undergraduate studies for English, 
says that his department discriminates 
because the demand for teaching jobs 
exceeds its number of available ap-
pointments. He argues that English 
students, training to teach English 
literature, need relevant experience. In 
addition, he says, English students 
would not be qualified to teach outside 
the department. 

This issue sparked Lurie's interest in 
theTA system. As a student in Renais-
sance Studies, he has had to struggle 
for appointments in English. Now a 
TA for an undergraduate course in 
Shakespeare, he says that the English 
department passed over many of his 
peers, instead selecting less qualified 
students from among its own. "So you 
have modernists TAing Shakespeare 
because they have their pick of the 
crop, since they're in the English 
department, and people who work in 
Late Medieval or Renaissance lit-
erature, who end up in modern 
had a choice: 
literature because 
they get the 
detritus." 

general oversight committee, 
Lurie feels, would erase these prob-
lems. It might also correct problems 
resulting from 
the cumbersome 
bureaucracy. It seems that every TA, 
at some point, has had to fight at least 
once for a paycheck; one was not paid 
until two years after he completed the 
job. Other graduate students report 
even more frustrating encounters with 
theTA program's administration. 

Because of one such encounter, Lisa 
Jepson (GRD '89) joined TA Solid-
arity. Sitting in a Naples booth, she 
speaks quietly, her clipped speech 
revealing her anger as she recalls losing 
her TA position. Jepson began teach-
ing a section of Italian 115 last 
semester. Beginning her second year in 
the I tali an department, Jepson was still 
collecting her stipend. That stipend, 
combined with her salary as a TF4, 
raised her income over the Graduate 
School's budget standard. Students 
receiving support may not earn more 
than the budget standard without 
having their stipends cut, to ensure 
that the Graduate School fairly dis-
tributes financial aid. In this case, 
however, the rule ensured only that the 
Italian department lost a 
needed 
teacher. 
When she returned 
this 
semester, Jepson learned that she 
could not collect both her salary and 
her stipend. Rather than teach for free, 
she quit, leaving her students to hunt 
for another section. 

Yet graduate 
students frequently exceed the income 
limit without being penalized. Jepson 
maintains, "The rules change accord-
ing to whatever is convenient. for the 
administration." 

H owever, what appears so perplex-
ing about Jepson's case is that it would 
have been more convenient for the 
administration - in fact , 
for every-
one- to allow her to teach. But the 
Graduate School administration, 
happening to find her in violation of a 
rule, rigidly enforced it. This par-
ticular rule may not be around much 
longer. In his office in HGS, Pollitt 
tentatively gropes for the words: "rm 
giving serious consideration to the


**Yale Teaching Assistants: A Union in the Making?**
**Author: James Bennet and Tom Augst**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Ray Lurie OE '80, GRD '88) 
possibility of exempting teaching in-
come from the student budget limit." 
If Pollitt succeeds in eradicating the 
income limit, his action will have far-
reaching 
effect~. Horror stories 
abound about departments and profes-


sors manipulating Yale's rules or 
exploiting the vulnerability of graduate 
students to exact assistance at low or 
no wages. The income limit lends itself 
to such abuses. In one small depart-
ment, two third-year students without 
jobs or stipends applied to teach a 
popular course. But the dep;utment 
passed them over in favor of a second-
year student who was already teaching 
a 
language 
class 
in 
addition 
to 
collecting a stipend. Anxious to TA the 
prestigious class, the student accepted 
the appointment, t.10ugh it would pay 
her nothing. Instead of ensuring broad 
distribution of financial 
aid, 
the 
income limit enabled the department 
to avoid paying a TA. 

Though he has fond memories of 
Yale's professors and students, 
Houchang Chehabi (GRD '86) sees its 
administrators in another light: "The 
whole Graduate School bureaucracy is 
pervaded by a culture of pettiness, 
narrowness, and lack of imagination." 
Having worked as a TA for several 
classes and taught four courses and two 
college seminars, Chehabi, a Prize 
Teaching Fellow, applied to teach 
another college seminar in the spring 
of '86. Though he had the backing of 
two colleges and of his department, 
which was short of junior seminars, the 
Graduate School administration 
declared that he had taught too many 
courses to be eligible to teach again. 
But as a foreigner on a student visa, 
Chehabi could not work outside the 
UniversitY or qualify for federal loans. 
In the end, Yale came through with a 
loan-at 12 percent interest. Now an 
assistant professor at Harvard, 
Chehabi reports that TAs there earn 
more and work less. But his biggest 
complaint about Yale's system does not 
center on salaries. "It's the treatment," 
he says. ~One gets no respect." 

Whether or not Yale's TAs gain that 
respect will depend largely upon their 
ability to pull together. The Pollitt 
Committee may go a long way toward 
meeting demands for detailed, 
published job descriptions to 
standardize the TA system in all 
d~partments, perhaps by next year. 
But the Provost's efforts to prevent the 
committee from examining ·salaries 
suggest that no major increase in the 
$2.6 million Teaching Fellow budget is 
forthcoming. Graduate students may 
have to force action on that front. 
The group in Machine City thinks that 
the T As can do it. "A major fact of life 
is that we're poor," Lieberman says. 
This common problem, the group 
feels, will lead graduate students to act 
collectively. According to one TA, 
"People know so little about the system 
that they just accept things." Once 
their colleagues awaken to 
their 
exploitation, argue members of the 
group, 
they 
will 
unite and, 
if 
necessary, take action. 

But Pollitt disagrees: "Those people 
who came to me and said, 'If you don't 
do something instantly we're going to 
strike!' I felt were extraordinarily 
naive." Though the Natural Sciences 
supplied 374 of the 967 TAs in Yale 
College last year, the group of would-
be organizers boasts no representatives 
from that division of the Graduate 
School. Job descriptions in terms of 
number of hours worked satisfy 
students in the Natural Sciences. Also, 
students there receive far more outside 
funding than students in the Social 
Sciences and H umanities, and conse-
quently rarely complain about wages. 

The organizers face other obstacles. 
Graduate students communicate very 
little with one another within 
departments, and even less within the 
Graduate School as a whole. Living far 
apart, these students concentrate on 
their own work and problems. How 
many paychecks would they willingly 
forego? 
Furthermore, 
individual 
financial situations, r~flecting family, 
University or outside funding, vary 
widely, 
weakening any sense of 
common experience. And graduate 
students are an extremely vulnerable 
group; 
the professors they might 
estrange by striking are the same 
people upon whom they depend to 
further their careers. "The graduate 
body is ctivided," Jepson says. "It's 
silent, it's silenced, and it isn't easy to 
get together and be heard." 

But TAs have struck before. When 
Philosophy TAs withheld grades in 
January, 1972, Yale capitulated almost 
immediately, doubling their pay. This 
action sparked wildcat strikes 
throughout 
the Gradu11te. School, 
causing Yale to initiate the_ studies that 
led to today's system. Perhaps the 
radicalized TAs organizing in Machine 
City can convince their peers that their 
individual concerns 
fit 
larger 
Houcbang Chehabi (GRD '86) says T As 
at Yale get "no respect." 

scheme. In general, graduate students 
have heard about the group. And when 
asked about striking, they react almost 
uniformly: at first, students chuckle or 
roll their eyes, perhaps scoff at the 
idea. 
T hen they reconsider, 
and 
appear startled by their conclusion. 
One woman paused and then said, as 
though speaking to herself, "When you 
think about it, we could really stop 
things completely." 

"Is this the meeting of the T A 
Solidarity Group?" Huginnie looks up 
and smiles. "Sure is. Take a seat." 
H uginnie sits at the crowd's center, 
taking notes as she gathers suggestions 
on actions the group should take and 
dividing responsibility for following 
through. The advisor from Local 34 
cuts in frequently, "In January," she 
says, "there's a possibility of 4000 Yale 
workers going out on strike. You have 
to figure out what your relationship to 
them is going to be." She provides tips 
on dealing with the Yale Corporation, 
pressing the group to take specific 
actions. "You don't organize by paper," 
she says. Huginnie runs through the 
list: posters announcing the &raduate 
student forum to be held April 21; 
graduate students at the Corporation 
breakfasts on Saturday; a deluge of 
calls to the Graduate School deans and 
President 
Benno Schmidt with 
requests for appointments; calls to 
other graduate students and to 
sympathetic faculty. There may be 
pickets on Class Day. And there may 
be a strike next year. 

And there will be another meeting in 
a week, to prepare for the forum. 
"Bring a date," calls Huginnie, as the 
students rise to leave. "Bring someone 
else who wants to work, or just to 
listen." Singly and in small groups, the 
TAs disperse, leaving behind a couple 
of Coke cups, a few scattered papers, 
and four lone undergraduates studying 
intently to the jarring accompaniment 
of the change machine. 


**Title: Frank Ryan's Resignation**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 34-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
On a sunny Monday afternoon in 
March, only two days after Yale 
students dt•parted for their spring 
vacations, Frank Ryan quietly an-
nounced his resignation. There was no 
press conference, just a Simple news 
release stating that Ryan, director of 
Yale Athletics, would step down from 
the post he has held for the last ten 
years to a!1,ume new responsibilities at 
Yale 
in l' niversity planning and 
de,·clopment. Two weeks later. with 
Yale's campus in full s"·•mg again, the 
,,,.-ord of Ryan's resignation began to 
spread. leaving many students and 
athletes 
perplexed and curious, 
questioning the Circumstances of his 
resignation and ir' bearing on the 
Athletic Depanmcnr. 

For 
almost 
everyone v' ho ha ~ had a stake in the 
Athletic Department during his tenure 
-athletes, coaches,- alumni and stu· 
dents- Ryan's resignation 
meant 
something. 

For some 
a 
disap· 
pointment, for others a bl~ssing, the 
end of Ryan's career came as .a surprise 
to all who have follo~"'ed his admini-
stration. 

Stacked on a chair in Ryan's office 
are the framed pictures of his past. In 
one foune sits an aged cover of Sports 
Illustrated, with a vibrant, youthful 
portrait of Rxan during his days as 
quarterback for the Cleveland Browns. 
His appearance has not changed much 
since then. Now, at age 50, the grey· 
haired Rvan still boasts a robust 
figure. H~ has as strong and staid a 
presence as his exterior might suggest, 
speaking carefully, deliberately, with a 
slight Texas drawl. Ryan'~ years before 
coming to Yale tell the story of a man


with great capabilities and diverse 
strengths. As one member of the 
Faculty Commitee on 
Athletics 
pointed out, Ryan embodied the ideal 
example of the student athlete 
-capable on the field, accomplished in 
his academics. Ryan is perhaps best 
known for his career in professional 
football, having played quarterback 
four years for the Los Angeles Rams, 
seven years for the Cleveland Browns, 
and two years for the Washington 
Redskins. 

The press lauded R yan when he 
received his Ph.D. in mathematics from 
Rice University in 1965, six months 
after he carried the Browns to the 1964 
national championship. 

After 
his 
retirement from football in 1970, he 
became the director of information 
systems 
for 
the 
U.S. 
House of 
Representatives where he designed 
their electronic voting system. And 
then, in 1977, Ryan became Athletic 
Director at Yale. 

He will leave that position this July 
to take up a !lew University post, as 
Associate Vice President of In-
stitutional Planning, working under 
Provost William Nordhaus to develop 
Yale's resources and facilities. Since his 
resignation as Athletic Director many 
faculty members and students have 
questioned the circumstances sur-
rounding his promotion. 

Because 
Ryan's second five-year contract would 
expire in May, a routine review 
committee headed by former Dean 
H oward Lamar was appointed to 
evaluate Ryan and recommend whe-
ther or not Yale should renew his 
contract. R yan accepted the new post 
before the committee could make a 
recommendation. And because stu-
dents, coaches, and other athletic 
administrators have leveled criticism 
against R yan in recent years, some 
members of the Yale community 
speculate that his appointment might 
have been a way to shelter him from a 
strongly negative evaluation, main-
taining both his credibility and that of 
the Athletic Department. 

R yan openly concedes that the 
review influenced his deciscn to move 
on, but he stresses the importance of 
other factors, including a desire to 
become more directly involved in 
education. "The fact that I was going 
through a review caused me to think 
very seriously about a new direction," 
Ryan said. · "Before the review was 
completed I had reached the decision


that I didn't want another tenure as 
Athletic Director." 

Ryan said that he began thinking 
about a career change when former 
President A. Bartlett Giamatti stepped 
down last year. "I began contemplating 
the future, without anything specific in 
mind. I was coming to the end of 
another term at Yale, and there was 
the factor of a new administration who 
often like their own staff." He said he 
reached his decision 
to 
resign in 
December, after speaking with President 
Schmidt. "Benno also thought it was a 
good idea. He agreed that ten years is a 
long time as Athletic Director, but he 
also acknowledged that I had a lot of 
capabilities and was in favor of some 
other arrangement. I was delighted," 
Ryan said. Although his new position 
is far from the realm of athletics, in 
many ways his responsibilities will not 
differ from those that he held in the 
Athletic Department-he will still be 
dealing with finances. But his new job 
will not entail the kind of tasks he faced 
when arriving at Yale ten years ago. 

At the time of Ryan's appointment, 
three major problems plagued the 
Athletic Department. "The men's 
teams were terribly unsuccessful as a 
whole. The cost of running the Athletic 
Department was considered excessive 
by the administration. And women's 
sports was just beginning to evolve and 
they were groping for a direction," 
Ryan said. Aside from these problems, 
he also felt that the morale of the 
department was extremely low. "There 
was a lot of resignation that you can't 
win at Yale," he recalled. "Some 
coaches actually told me to my face 
that they thought they just couldn't win 
and that their job at Yale was just to 
maintain the program and give the 
kids good experience. I'm all for that 
too, but I think they should win their 
fair share. 

"There was a sense of not really 
knowing how to control their own 
destiny. It was a terrible state of 
affairs," Ryan said. He was hired to 
whip the department into shape- to 
improve its otherwise disastrous 
financial state; and to make the teams 
win games. To accomplish these goals, 
Ryan brought his skills of modern 
organizational management to the 
department, enacting 
series of 
"massive · budget reductions," !'lnd 
generally bringing Yale athletics under 
firmer financial control. Some criticize 
Ryan for increasing the Athletic 
Department's bureaucracy, saying that 
by expanding the number of associate 
athletic directors from three to six, he 
slowed decision-making and inhibited 
communication between his admin-
istration and athletes. But he 
eliminated t400,000 
in excess 
spending fro.u 
the department's 
budget and directed over $9 million in 
facility improvements, including the 
renovation of Coxe Cage. Ryan also 
made many personnel changes, in both 
the coaching staff and the admini-
stration, "to eradicate the impression 
that Yale can't win." The result: in 
1982 Yale athletic teams reached a . 500 
winning percentage for the first time in 
over 25 years. 

"I think those problems have been 
corrected," Ryan said. "Women's sports 
have gotten their direction. Men's 
teams are 'back on the winning ways, 
overall. 

And 
I 
think that this 
department, as much as it might object 
to the rather strong direction I've given 
it, knows more about its place, where 
it's going·and what they needed to do 
to get there." 

Few would question that Ryan has 
strengthened the organizational and 
financial state of his department. In 
that sense, he has been a success. But 
the "rather strong direction" he refers 
to has been a bone of contention for


years. In the process of restructuring 
Yale athletics, Ryan generated mixed 
feelings, both in and out of the 
department, ranging from praise to 
anger to sheer frustration. His critics 
claim that Ryan has made as many 
problems as he has improvements in 
the department. 

At worst, Ryan has been called a 
cold and insensitive administrator who 
sought to maintain a 
well-oiled 
machine rather than to meet the 
human needs and concerns of coaches 
and athletes. Ryan has also appeared 
unsympathetic to women's athletics in 
recent years, most notably through 
several incidents involving women's 
gymnastics and volleyball. Those 
controversial incidents, coupled with 
numerous 
complaints 
of 
mismanagement from athletes, have 
become gospel for- critics seeking to



**Title: Yale Athletics: A Review of Frank Ryan's Administration**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 37-39**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"The fact that I was 
going through a 
review caused me to 
think very seriously 
about a new 
direction ." 
point c.ut 
Ryan's 
insensitive and 
unmoveable stance. 
Members of the women's gymnastics 
and volleyball teams perhaps have 
more to complain about than most 
athletic teams at Yale. Some members 
of the women's volleyball team, a 
successful 
club sport last year, 
recounted 
the difficulties they 
encountered in trying to gain varsity 
status for their team, a goal they finally 
achieved this year. They told tales of 
bureaucratic mix-ups 
and of an 
Athletic Director deaf to their: needs 
and concerns. Some team me.mbers 
believe Ryan did not accurately 
represent them to the faculty committee 
on athletics, which grants varsity 
status. One member of the team 
claimed Ryan once told her that 
volleyball, the second most popular 
women's sport in the country, was not 
a "real" sport, but one to be played at 
picnics. The team 
finally 
gained 
varsity status over the summer because 
of a growing emphasis on volleyball 
t~roughout the Ivy League. 
Women's gymnastics became a focus 
of controversy last season when its final 
meet of the '84-'85 year was cancelled 
due to a bureaucratic mix-up. The 
athletic adminstration felt that the 
space allotted for the meet on the gym's 
eighth floor should be reserved for 
varsity basketball practices. During the 
course of negotiations with the rival 
team's athletic department to relocate 
or reschedule the competition, the 
meet 
fell 
through 
entirely. 
The 
administration handled the decision to 
move the meet and all suosequent 
negotiations without the knowledge of 
the Yale gymnastics team or coach. 
basketball coaches had 
not 
planned a practice for that day, and the 
incident called into question 
the 
.department's priorities, which gave 
precedence to a men's team's practice 
over a women's team's competition. 
·Members of the women's gymnastics 
team again. questioned their treatment 
by the depar:tment when they returned 
to Yale this fall. After thirteen seasons 
as a varsity team with a winning 
percentage of .908, six · Ivy League 
titles and a 99-10 record, the team 
dropped from varsity level to Varsity 
II level, a status entailing less funding 
and attention from the department. 
That decision upset many athletes and 
coaches on both men's and women's 
teams and caused many athletes to 
question Ryan's priorities. For some, 
the gymnastics incidents serve as an 
example of his alleged insensitivity. 
Ryan said the team's demotion was 
based on a policy which dictates that 
the status of a Yale team reflects the 
common standards set among all Ivy 
League teams. If other Ivy League 
universities treat a given sport as a 
high priority, Yale will follow suit. 
Yale looks to Harvard and Princeton in 
particular for setting standards. 
Because Princeton dropped their 
gymnastics team over the summer, 
leaving only four teams in the Ivy 
League, the Faculty Committee on 
Athletics, 
with Ryan's support , 
decided that Yale's team did not merit 
full varsity status. 
Princeton reinstituted its team this 
fall after overwhelmmg student and 
alumni protest, 
but Yale's 
team 
remains Varsity II and its members 
fear that such a status will hamper 
recruitment and prevent the team from 
competing on a higher level. Yale 
gymnasts and their supporters argue 
that because of the team's success over 
the last ten years, they should not be 
restricted or measu red by Ivy League 
standards which they believe they far 
surpass. ~The Ivy League is Mickey 
Mouse. Why should we _be confined to 
inferior teams? Yale should be running 
its own show and not just lqok at the 
Ivy League," said one gyinnast. R yan 
said the demotion should not affect the 
team. But members feel unsupported 
by the Athletic Department, and their 
morale has dragged. "It makes you 
wonder why you're doing athletics in 
the first place. You wish you could 
have an honest relationship but you 
don't," said one team member about 
the Athletic Department. 
The issue of the gymnastics team in 
many ways exemplifies the problems 
that arise with many of the criticisms 
leveled at Ryan. On the one hand, 
Ryan supports almost all his decisions, 
whether favorable err unfavorable, with 
department policies- policies, such as 
the creation of Varsity II status, which 
he has a large hand in shaping. And he 
cnuctzes 
many of his 
OFponents 
for their vague, subjective and often 
unsubstantiated accusations. 
"I've sort of taken that approach 
right down the line," said R yan. "That 
is to say, I've wanted to establish an 
identification for thi~ department, and 


I wanted it to know its boundanes, to 
stay within those boundaries and yet 
be terribly successful. The way to give 
those boundaries shape was to make 
policies and say 'this is the way we are 
going to be."' 
Because of his consistent adherence 
to policy in making decisions, Ryan 
often appears out-of-touch 
with 
athletics on the student level and 
indifferent to individual concerns or 
needs, focusing instead on financial 
matters. "He has a complete lack of 
respect for the people he's in charge of. 
He lost sight that the department was 
here to serve the students and team 
athletes, and it got turned around to 
where you're here 
to serve the 
administration," 
said one varsity 
Complaints against 
Ryan tend to be f~1tile 
in the face of 
· 
"policy decisions." 
coach. 
Consequently, 
complaints 
against him tend to be futile in the face 
of "policy decisions," and are 
subjective, personal, and critical of 
Ryan's attitude 
and 
personality , 
critical of the way Ryan has treated 
students and coaches. 
Those who do have a bone to pick 
with Frank Ryan usually don't speak 
out, at least not to Ryan himself. They 
tend to find other, more sympathetic 
outlets for their frustrations, such as 
friends, peers, or other athletes; and 
many simply choose not to speak at all. 
None of the coaches or athletes 
interviewed 
would speak on the 
record, citing past cases of sharp 
criticism and reprisal from members of 
his administration. The Yale Women's 
Athletic Organization, 
a 
support 
group for women athletes, published a


**Title: The Ryan Years**
**Author: Daniel Waterman**
**Page number(s): 40-41**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Ryan criticizes many 
of his opponents for 
their vague, subjective 
and often 
unsubstantiated 
accusations.


magazine last year highly critical of 
Ryan's policies and 
treatment of 
women' 
athletics. 
Editors of the 
magazine say they were chastised by 
some of Ryan's administrators for 
be!ng too negative. "Most people are 
afraid tO. speak out, or are made ~o feel 
disloyal if they do," said one athlete in 
regard to criticizing Ryan's adminis-
tration. 

The door to Frank Ryan's office is 
almost always open, and he is fond of 
saying :hat he "maintains an open door 
policy," willing to communicate with 
athletes and coaches at all times. But 
few, if any, of the coaches, studems or 
~ven his own associates have been 
known to take advantage of the offer. 

In efforts to improve communications 
with the athletes themselves, Ryan 
began holding Team Captain 
Meetings three times each season for 
athletes to voice their complaints to 
him directly. "Frank had his ideas and 
would give you a chance once a year to 
break his walls down, but it was 
useless. Meetings were a formality. We 
weren't working together to come to 
solutions. We were fighting against 
him, and that is not the way a 
relationship between students and [the 
athletic] administration should be," 
one varsity team member said. 

Ryan, on the other hand, said "there 
is a curious lack of specificity [in those 
meetings), a lot of vagueness and a lot 
of groping." He asserted that people 
leave those meetings remembering 
only the negatives. "You just don't hear 
about the other stuff," Ryan said. "The 
controversies and the rough edges tend 
to get a little higher profile. The n ice 
things don't. And because I'm at the 
top of the pyramid the blame tends to 
rise up to me. But I think that I bend 
over backwards to be nice and fair to 
people." Ryan argued that most of his 
criticism comes from "a lot of misrep-
resentation and inflation. You tell me 
exactly what I need to do to improve 
the program or improve th e attitude of 
people in the program and I'll work to 
that end." 

R yan believes that 
he's 
been 
sensitive to many problems, both 
personal and admin istrative, th rough-
out his ,years in the department. 
"Unfortunately the world doesn't see 
much of that a~d so they complain and 
are dismayed at some of the things that 
happened," he said. He also believes he 
deserves .few if any of the criticisms he 
has received, criticisms which he feels 
have been exaggerated. "I was h ired to 
straighten it out, to get. it under 
control. That became the stamp of my 
administration. It's hard to do that and 
at the same time remain the nice fuzzy 
wuzzy warm 
uncle," 
Ryan 
said. 

Ryan acknowledges some of the 
strain his strict policy decisions have 
placed on his relations with athletes. "I 
don't know if I could have escaped the 
problems of having to make massive 
budget reductions early, of having to 
make the personnel changes to eradi-
cate the impression that Yale can't win. 
I don't know how diplomatic I was. I 
probably could have done some of 
those things with a little bit more 
finesse. I've always been sort of an 
upfront 
person and 
I 
think 
my 
approach was rather shocking to a 
place that had always been rather soft. 
I don't know if I would have done 
anything differently. 
I'm 
still 
an 
upfront person," Ryan said. "My 
conscience is quite clear." 

Difficulties arise in assessing Ryan's 
ten years at the Athletic Department. 
In concrete matters, 
matters of 
financial stability and w inning 
averages, Ryan can be call.ed a success.


Ryan said he has maintained "an open 
door policy" as Athletic Director. 
But in the face of discontent and 
trepidation both in and out of the 
department, one must ask 'if those 
developments cost too much. Ryan 
will assume his new role at Yale come 
July, a role to which he was perhaps 
better suited all along. And while 
Professor 
Donald Kagan of the 
Classics department serves as Interim 
Athletic Director, the search for a 
replacement .-,ill continue. No one can 
predict who it will be. But many feel 
strongly about the kind of person it 
should be. Ryan hopes Yale will find 
someone "who can blend 
fiscal 
decisions with policy decisions." But 
for the many athletes and coaches, that 
quality does not seem to be a concern. 
They feel the time ha.s come to bring in 
someone who can take the department 
in a new direction. With Yale athletics 
on firmer financial ground than ever 
before, athletes and coaches hope for a 
director with new standards, one who, 
as an athlete put it, "is a little more 
understanding." 

• 
Daniel Waterman, a j unior in Ezra Stiles, is 
associate editor tif TN].


**Title: Books/Biakey Vermeule**
**Author: Biakey Vermeule**
**Page number(s): 43-45**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Books/Biakey Vermeule 
Heroic Landscapes 
Adrienne Rich, Robert Haas, and John 
Hollander have won it. 
W. H. Auden, 
Stephen 
Vincent 
Benet, 
and Archibald 
MacLeish have judged it. And between 400 
and 900 men and women now compete for it 
every year. The Yale Series of Younger Poets, 
the country's oldest "first book" competition, 
offers a weighty heritage to its winner. 
Begun by Clarence Day, the brother of 
Yale University 
Press Director George 
Parmlee Day, the contest is now in its eighty-
econdyear. Anyone under the age of 40 who 
never had a poetry collection published 
!Y subTTJit a manuscript; and according to 
'harles Grench, acquisitions editor at the 
ress in charge of the competition, this 
rocedure generates «a real mixed bag" of 
tries. "A lot of them are terrible," he 
oncedes. 
But the winner's poetry, 
as 
onstrated by the impressive list of past 
ictors, is often superb. In addition to 
ublishing the winner's collection, .;· the Yale 
niversity Press arranges readings and press 
'!!leases heralding the arrival of the new talent 
'n the poetry world. Winning the Younger 
Poets Series can mean the difference between 
ccess and anonymity in literary circles. 
James Merrill, the current judge of the 
mpetition, selected Julie Agoos' collection 
bove the Land as this year's winner, and 
'n March the Yale University Press published 
goos' book. According to our reviewer, her 
ork could stand alone on its merits. Due to 
good graces of Merrill and the Yale Series 
if Younger Poets, it will no longer have to. 
ulie Agoos won the Yale Younger 
oet's Award last year, and in her 
ms she presents a heart so feeling 
d so full that I am tempted to 
onder at its reverence. One cannot 
ssibly, I have thought, find the 
dscapes of Cambridge and New 
ampshire, unalterably familiar to 
ose of us who have lived there, so 
triguing and ripe with possibility. 
• Juhc Ago<» 
Above the Land 
: poems are very intelligent, but not 
l. conceptually challenging; they tend to 
l:' be impersonal, 
anecdotal, 
morally 
~ neutral, elegantly turned but without 
§ passion." J ulie Agoos avoids these 
~ particular faults, carefully negotiating 
~ the often brutally unforgiving dialectic 
~ between her own voice and the weight 
8 of tradition. 


But Julie Agoos' immediate project, as 
James Merrill says in his introduction 
to her book, is to challenge her own 
pronouncement that "So much 
sensation is unknown." Unknown, or 
pei'haps undiscovered; and her poems 
dare those insensate hometown places 
to yield up their secrets. She writes of 
painting over an old chipped railing: 
Whatever homage Agoos has paid to 
the Academy's standards of poetic 
work (her love for her teachers and 
respect for the authority implicit in 
structures of learning are everywhere 
apparent), she slips through those 
tightly 
drawn 
boundaries 
with 
a 
slightly irreverent wink, a sly gesture 
of recognition. Her poems draw on 
myths 
ancient 
the 
Iliad, 
refreshing them in a 
particularly 
feminine way, while at the same time 
creating new myths equally heroic in 
their own terms: myths of broken 
language, chipped paint, and worn 
lives. 

In one poem, 
professor 
unintentionally 
insults 
Chinese 
doctoral candidate by placing her essay 
on the floor beside him after he's read 
it; and we are suddenly made aware of 
how communication has been failing 
and finally failed: "her soft-footed fury 
at the unmeant dishonor, 
insult/limited and circumscibed by 
language/yet all with the still precision 
o£ a watchspring:/the incompleteness 
of it and the timing." In another poem 
she asks her sister, who has tried to 
teach her the Latin names for trees: 
"My arm is a plow, or a circling 
airplane./! am giving a 
grain to 
something soft and fraying." And yet 
there is nothing mechanical about this 
gesture, repeated again and again 
throughout her poems, that shapes old 
observed forms to her own rhythms, 
ingraining them with her own voice. 

Both 
figures, 
the plow 
and 
airplane, describe the kinds of truth 
she lends to her observations: in one 
sense she is the truthseeker, churning 
up the fertile ground, and in the other, 
she patiently keeps her distance, 
circling wide and free above larger 
patterns. 

J .D. McClatchy has recently written 
of his misgivings about an emergent 
style among younger poets: "Their 
"Whom were you reassuring with 
Latin names?/What love made you 
believe the earth was stirred/to take 
you in? ... I cannot blame them, nor 
the blushing Acer/who fades unmoved 
by your particular step./That bark is 
not your skin, and roots long sunk/in 
moss do not drink rain for you, or 
carry/your memory to be dug at like 
a scent." 


Yet while language breaks down, as 
it does again and again in these poems, 
Agoos sets herself the 
task o f 
communicating without 
it; 
medium she chooses is the geometric 
shapes and patterns which b ind objeCts 
people together. 
Her poems 
written in Italy in which she constantly 
shifts between English and Italian 
show us a woman learning from the 
crossed, geometric and fluid patterns 
embodied both in 
the artistic· 
conventions of Italian Renaissance 
painters and 
in the 
forms of 
relationships with other people. While 
some of us may need a d ictionary to 
read these poems, we can trust her to 
make sense of unknown words for us, 
as they fit metr ically into the sentence 
or as she glosses them elsewhere. The 
effort i~ well worth it since the pressing 
sense of fluidity between shapes, old 
forms and new, 
transcends the 
language she uses. Standing on the 
banks of the Arno, she sees the figure 
of a young "Geometrist" she knows and 
remembers 
how he once pronounced 
a simple theory to a crowd of us 
in the Blue Grotto at Fresole: 
non si puo mai frenare 
Ia volonta-one can never 
cpntain the will, or the shape, of a 
thing. 

Suddenly the separations, the images 
which have refused to cohere in this 
poem begin to make distinct patterns 
of their own, in which the poet is not 
the container but the contained: 

But for the one surviving, 
North exists only in 
a hard vertical, South: 
where the father fell .. 
They my eyes steady on mountains 
in both directions; I cannot 
think in any language 
what these sights mean for now, 
though I hear the river speaking 
to itself. 

These figures of Geometry u nderlying 
her images constitute the landscape of 
her poems, a landscape wh ich draws 
on very particular sources, Italian and 
American, but which, as the title of her 
book suggests, ultimately transcend s 
them. 

The men and women of her poems 
are her heroes, but like language, 
heroism does not adhere to the figures 
of its traditional types. The heroic 
spirit she admires lives not in young 
boisterous warriors, but in the · older 
men and women who teach her: a New 
England farmer, an Italian widow, a 
silent concierge who speaks to her in 
the soft movements of his broom. 

These figures, which she treats. with 
tenderness or irony, become part of 
her search to inscribe a new Geometry, 
which borrows on old rules without 
becoming bonded by 
them. The 
process of unbinding herself from 
received forms of art, (that of Masaccio 
and Ucello) and of creating new shapes 
is a complex challenge against which 
each of her poems struggles in different 
ways. In one of her central poems, 
"The Four Seasons," Agoos evokes an 
old "Weatherman" to embody the 
elemental transcience of the weather 
itself. He is actually a field laborer, as 
old and honest, in her view, as the field 
he works in; with his aching back and 
his time-worn countenance, he is like 
the old portinaio, and the host of other 
old men who appear as the heroes of 
her poems, 
solitary unspeaking 
Other. This old "weatherman" is in a 
sense radically diminished by the poet's 
sense that he is "like this idea/of a 
crossroads in a field," and yet in the 
terms of her poem, his transcience, his 
ability to pass like the weather above 
the ground, lends him the dignity of an 
artist's subjectivity: "have I sim ply 
imagined/that life is like th is process/of 
the weather, or the patient/trud ge of 
p a inter .. . ?" 

S h e 
seems 
amb ivalent about the status of external 
objects, including th e people 
who 
represent objects: like 
the ground 
itself, will its eternal presence prevail 
over the weather (or weatherman) 
which shapes it? 

She works out 
this 
complex 
question, a question which draws 
together all the various motifs in her 
poems, through a poetry which in its 
largest sense imitates the discipline of 
geometry itself with its infinite ways of 
describing 
relations 
be tween 
objects. In her poem "The Good 
Neighbor ," 
speaker 
addresses 
herself to an ivory figurine of a 
C hinese'Iaborer, in which she sees the 
resemblance to an old professor of 
hers. She reflects that "H e, with his 
bad heart,! gave ours a sort of principle 
of heart,/found humor in the awful 
softening/that came with each a ttack 
this old portinaio·_ 
(far more capable 
of movement than we are) 
comes setting the floor astir 
with something closer to 
grandeur 
than impatience: pulling 
the broom, 
bending backward like 
an angler, 
a square bit of tapestry 
drags into the room beneath it, 
just like a hooked fish 
half rising out of flystruck 
water: how at home he is, 
moving through the room 
back first, his flexed thighs 
and puffed out ribs, 
blue-covered, 
mirroring the sky . 


on it, in each/it made (loving some 
particular/of learning) on oversized 
h eroes 
bearing 
arms." 

The 
representation of this professor 
(interchangeable with these oversized 
heroes he loves so well) as a small 
figurine cuts his heroism down to a 
more manageable size; he emerges 
fully heroic: 

For you are a good neighbor to them, 
a monk 
full of retiring passions, yet not too 
full 
to take the world beyond and move 
it inward, 
filling your basket with a lexicon of 
deeds and nature. 

The journey you must be on 
seems full of sorrow. 

Agoos makes us· wary of lexicons, but 
this one seems different, since it is a 
lexicon both of deeds and of nature, 
settling in the dialectic between the 
world beyond and the inward world, 
and privileging neither. As a tourist in 
Florence, she writes: "Here is a 
view,lhere is a postcard/a pen, a 
bright new/stamp, a glance toward the 
window, a glance inward:-" A full 
relation between the two characterizes 
heroic spirit 
in 
her 
poetry. 

Weaving these relations 
b etween 
herself an d others, and among the 
others themselves, Agoos begins to 
make patterns out of the sensate world 
with her pervasive sense of the 
immed iacy of feeling. H overing above 
the land, the patterns she draws are as 
minute and internal, and as broad and 
far-ranging as 
she 
wishes; 
what binds her poetry together is her 
sen se 
of 
profound connection 
between the two: 

I think of that unclaimed sound of 
voices 
that circles above the land: one 
cannot 
enter the perspective without losing 
sight of it. 

One loves what one is reminded of 
loving. 

BUlky Vermeuk is a junior in Ezra Stiles. 


**Title: Afterthought**
**Author: Barry Shain**
**Page number(s): 46-47**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Afterthought/Barry Shain 
Yale's Failing Grade 
Reflecting on my experiences at Yale, I 
immediately 
recall 
the 
sense of 
expectation that consumed me six 
years ago when I first was notified that 
I had been accepted as a graduate 
student in Political Science. I was 
looking forward to finally attending a 
u niversity where rigorous intellect-
ualism was positively countenanced 
and did not need to be apologized for 
nor hidden. Although I had attended 
over ten universities and colleges in 
California, I nevertheless still felt like a 
provincial coming for the first time to 
the capital. Maybe it was because I had 
initially graduated with a degree in 
industrial arts education (teaching 
shop) and had spent the last ten years, 
on and off, working as an auto 
mechanic; I'm just not sure. Ironically, 
that I had worked with my hands, I 
would learn, was in part responsible 
for my having been accepted. I was to 
be the department's working class 
hero. 
However, the:.ir expectations 
concerning my political sympathies 
would prove as wrong as my hopes of 
finding a dynamic intellectual life at 
Yale. 

What is most prominent in my 
memories and in my continuing sense 
of Yale are these expectations of intel-
lectualism that I had brought with me. 
Pan of this package of expectations 
was that the graduate students would 
be truly exceptional intellectuals and 
that the undergraduates would be 
rather mediocre. After all, weren't the 
graduates secular clerics willing to 
sacrifice everything in their pursuit of 
wisdom and knowledge while the 
undergraduates were rich spoiled brats 
looking to "network"? Additionally. 
"knowing" as I did that the life of the 
mind would be treated with great 
respect and devotion 
at 
I 
expected that undergraduate teaching 
would be given 
highest of 
46 The New journal/ April 17. 1987 
priorities. 

Even before classes had begun, I 
became aware that maybe my expec-
tations for a rich intellectual life at Yale 
were painfully skewed from the reality 
that would confront me during the 
next five years. I had just returned 
from a summer of travel, the last of my 
many 1960s-style peregrinations over 
the globe, a summer of, in fact, intense 
intellectual excitement in Paris and 
.Berlin, 
where being an admitted 
conservative among Marxist intellec-
tu~ls had actually aided me in striking 
I began to suspect that 
here among the 
graduate students my 
being intellectually 
challenging would not 
be met with 
enthusiasm but, 
instead, with "moral" 
outrage. 
up 
conversations and 
friendships. 

Then, after having passed a week of 
evenings at the graduate student bar, 
the GPSCY, I began to suspect that there 
among the graduate students my being 
intellectually challenging would not be 
met with enrhusiasm but, instead, with 
"moral" outrage. 

It seemed 
that 
graduate students, contra my expec-
tations, were not committed to the life 
of the mind. Nevertheless. I hoped that 
the GPSCY crowd would prove to be 
anomalous. Unfortunately, they would 
prove very much to be part of the 
public orthodoxy that would make 
graduate student life at Yale intellectu-
ally suffocating. 

YALE 
(@1 

But once classes started, I had 
doubts about my initial impressions 
and discounted my experience at the 
GPSCY as being the product of post-
travel fatigue. What fostered these 
doubts was the happy discovery that 
the Political Sciencefaculty, contrary to 
my expectations, were mtellectuaUy 
open and seemingly willing to take 
risks (a p rescient observation, 
as 
allowing me to teach would subse-
quently 
bear 
witness). 
What 
experienc~d. which may in 
part 
explain the inaccuracy of my expec-
tations, was that the faculty's overall 
confidence in the 
liberal pluralisr 
descriptive and normative model was 
in the process of collapsing. They (as is 
possibly the discipline as a whole) were 
once again 
becoming 
increasingly 
insecure about their paradigmatic 
nakedness, and were beginning to 
search for alternatives-
hence, the 
openness. Obviously, Yale was not 
intellectually moribund, or so I hoped 
anew. 

But the sense of relative openness 
that I found among the Political Science 
faculty did not apply, unfortunately, to 
the graduate students. My initial 
reactions formed in the summer were, 
if anything, 
too flattering. The 
graduate students, 
the life-giving 
center of intellectual experimentation 
on every campus I had known, seemed 
to be for the most part brain-dead and 
neutered, epigones of 1960s radical-
ism, religiously dogmatic souls that 
were, nevertheless, bereft of a vital 
religion. To say that they were closed-
minded and weren't engaged actively 
in the life of the mind would prove to 
be a gross understatement. I would 
learn during the course of the next five 
years that their normal response to 
intellectual challenges would be verbal 
castigation or physical abuse. 

Although my initial impressions of


--- Page 47 ---

the i~ck~_f intelle~tl!al vigor~ampng ilie . 
gradu~te studeuts"·would~ be solidly 
con,firm_ed" durihg two yery fong_ years-
a~ liyjng a~ HGS--ana taking clas.ses, it 
would.'not be until I began' to teach in 
my second year that I would learn that 
I had !Jeen,_ as wrong about the under-
graduates in_ my negative expectation 
as I had been"about the graduates in 
my p'ositive one.. 

As I 
became_ interested in the 
undergraduates and audited classes . 
with · them, _I also began to· question 
Yale's commitment to ·- quality 
education. After· years· and years of 
undergraduate . classes, r was able to 
judge the quality of. teaching far more 
effectively "than <:ould the ·average 
undergraquate . . And. _what disturbed 
me was, the reaii4:ation.that the College, 
in spite of the enormous aniou.nt of 
money undergraduates spend to attend 
Yale and the pre.stige that accrues, does 
not foster intellectualism, in that 
taking teaching· serious!y _ is not 
encouraged by Y.ale College. 

Although lip service is of course 
given to the importance of teaching, l 
was struck by how empty this promise 
is when I learned that teach\Qg assis-
tants were sometimes (frequently?) 
assigned to a particular class not 
~caus.eofexpertise, or even interest in 
a subject matter, but instea~ because 
of the administrative needs of 
departments who have made pledges of 
financial assistance to these students. 

Slowly, I was beginning to doubt the 
truism that Yale Up.iversity was 
structured to serve the needs of its 
undergraduates or, in the larger sense, 
the full life of the mind. 

Not only were the teaching assistants 
frequently not passionate seekers of 
knowledge, 
but seemingly, 
assistant professors also were not 
lightning rods around which hungry 
young souls could congregate in their 
quest for understanding. How could 
they afford to be while working in a 
research university where promotion is 
based almost solely on the quantity of 
one's publications (and the possession 
of certain social graces)? 

Given that most of the junior people 
know they will be cut loose in a few 
years, rationality demands that they 
waste as little time as possible on 
teaching. Here at Yale, as at other 
research universities, there are few 
professional returns for 
investing 
energy and love into teaching. I often 
wondered how many students and 
their parents really understood on 
what basis Yale's reputation rests (the 
scholarly output of its faculty) and 
that, in general, excellence in teaching 
is not encouraged nor to be expected. 

What I found even more remarkable, 
given my experience in the '60s when 
the quattty 
01 
teacnmg was 
paramount importance to students, 
was how quiescent Yale's students were 
in the face of their exploitation. 

In spite of my general disap-
pointment with the inteUectual life to 
be found at one of the great Ivy League 
universities, 
at least one of my 
expectations, nevertheless, would 
happily prove to be errant. Without 
denying the possibility that many, if 
· not most, of the undergraduates may 
actually be the rich brats I had 
expected, I can only report that in four 
years of teaching and leading sections 
here, I have never been aware of 
having had any in my classes. And 
even more striking to me was that it 
was among the undergraduates that I 
finally 
discovered 
a 
small but 
significant minority committed to the 
Jife of the mind. And even if being a 
minority 
is something that may 
frustrate these students themselves, 
they seemingly are treated respectfully 
by their peers, a condition that cer-
tainly doesn't obtain in most of the 
many universities that I have attended. 

Almost in spite of Yale College's lack of 
support, there is ro be found among 
some of its undergraduates a flourish-
ing intellectualism. 

I have been impressed with the way 
undergraduates have responded to roy 
courses ("Political Culture of the 
1960s,., "Colonial American Rel1gious 
and Political Thought," and "Con-
servative Critiques of Modernity") 
where they are exposed, probably for 
the first time, to one truly radical form 
of thought, in this case, philosophical 
conservatism. What has struck me. as 
so unusual is their inteJlectual maturity 
in the unsettling and alien intellectual 
environment my classes create. On the 
whole, they have reacted neither as-
docile conservative sycophants nor as 
blind liberal dogmatists but, rather, as 
careful and judicious explorers 
traveling in an unknown land. 

It has been in my classes that, 
finally, I (and I hope my students) 
found myself engaged in the intellec- . 
tually challenging milieu that I initially 
had hoped would describe all my 
experiences at Yale. My students h_ave 
continuously challenged me and forced 
me to defend, clarify, and even 
expunge parts of the argument l have 
put before them. For the experience 
they have afforded me, I owe my stu-
dents a great debt of gratitude that I 
can never repay. 

In addition to having been graced 
with the finest of students, I have been 
very fortunate in my years at Yale in 
enjoying truly warm and erudite 
advisors. Therefore, in spite of the 
philistinism of many of the graduate 
students that I have encountered, I 
must think of leaving Yale only with 
the greatest of trepidation. Where else 
will I be able to teach and learn from 
such splendid students and to argue 
with such noble adversaries as my 
advisors? Nevertheless, my overall 
judgment of Yale must rest finally on 
the shocking absence of an active 
intellectual life on campus and Yale 
College's concomitant lack of commit-
ment to undergraduate education. 

Possibly, in the quest for bourgeois 
civility and scholarly professionalism, 
intellectualism at Yale has been dis-
couraged. Regardless of who or what is 
responsible (and I don't claim to 
know), it ultimately is incumbent on 
the students and their parents to insist 
on their purchased right to an education, 
not simply an experience in trivial 
pursuits. 

• 
Barry Shain (GRD '89) is a Prize Teaching 
Fellow in the Political Scima departmmL 
The New JournaiJApril 17, 1987 47 



--- Page 48 ---

. The class participation of 68o/o is ttie highest 
since the Class of 1964 
S19,274 contributed to the 1~7 Quarter CeRtury Fund. 
$22,992 io pledges to the 1987 OCF. 
Berl(eley 
Branford 
CalhOun 
Davenport 
Ezra Stiles 
Jonathan Edwards 
Morse 
Pierson 
Silliman 
Saybrook 
Trumbull 
Timothy Dwight 
Total 
(an 8°/o increase over the previous record) 
QCF Pte~es 
$ 1715 
2398 
1965 
1600 
1735 
1693 
2180 
2138 
'1943 
:1075 
1760 
2790 
$22,992 
Participation 
70°/o 
69% 
'l2°/o 
4 59°/o 
51o/o 
83% 
78o/o 
41°/o 
66°/o 
90°/o 
68°/o 
Our goal ls 70o/o parttctpatton. We still need 25 seniors to pledge. 
Thanks to stu~ support, the Yale Alumni Fund is continuing to raise 
money to insure that the Urilvers1ty thrives. The quality of Yale's future 
depends on you. 
JYALE ALUMNI FUND 
P 0. BOX 1890, 1.55 WHITNEY AVENUE, NEW HAVEN, CT 06508 203-432-6076 
FOUNDED1890

