Publication date: 02/03
Volume 35, Issue 4

**Title: The OxyContin Epidemic**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The press quickly identified the mastermind behind America's latest drug epidemic: Purdue Pharma of Stamford, Connecticut, the pharmaceutical company that manufactures OxyContin. Purdue Pharma's aggressive marketing campaigns, according to cnucs, misrepresented OxyContin as an abuse-resistant miracle drug. In visits to doctor's offices across the country, field representatives pitched OxyContin not just to anesthesiologists and oncologists, doctors who rypically treat severe pain, but also to family doctors running small, private practices. Purdue Pharma ran full-page advertisements in mainstream medical journals like the journal of th~ American M~dical Association, an unprecedented tactic for pitching an opiate pain reliever. Underestimating OxyContin's power, doctors over-prescribed it, saturating communities with a very powerful drug that was easy to abuse. 

In the summer of 2002, now twelve years clean, Mark Kinzly returned to rural Maine. This time, however, he came as a researcher, part of a Yale team investigating OxyContin abuse in the state. Over the last few years, emergency medical technicians and police have noticed an alarming increase in overdose deaths in the state. Last December, the state medical examiner validated what had been just a hunch, reporting a 500 percent increase from 1997-2002 in accidental overdoses, 17 percent of which were attributable to prescription drugs. Nancy Green, a midwife from tiny Calais, Maine, testified before a Senate panel that ten of the 40 babies she had delivered in 2001 were born suffering from opiate withdrawal. More people were dying from, and being born with, drug addiction. 

Bur OxyContin's exact role in the epidemic was unclear. Up until last summer, reports of wide-scale OxyContin abuse remained anecdotal-an MTV story on some strung-out prep school kids, a country midwife's stories about shivering OxyContin babies. The Yale researchers would collect objective data and then organize it in a scholarly analysis of OxyContin and opiate use rates in Maine. Kinzly and his colleagues intended to hit the streets to talk to doctors and police officers. More importantly, the investigators would find drug users themselves and talk to them about their habits. Kinzly thought that given his long personal history with drug use, addicts would trust him, and he would easily get the information his team needed. But often times, especially in rural Maine, the addicts he found refused to talk. Maine's drug users didn't trust Mark Kinzly because Mark Kinzly's study was funded by the enemy: Purdue Pharma.


FOR MOST OF THE 20TH CENTURY, the medical establishment confined opiates-familiar drugs like heroin and morphine, as well as a slew of more obscure formulations-to cancer wards and field hospitals. Opiates are by far the most powerful of all pain medication, but their effectiveness also makes them one of the most addictive. Government regulations long kept opiate-based medicines locked inside hospitals to prevent mass addiction. 

But during the 1980s, pharmaceutical companies and patient advocacy groups organized a campaign asserting the rights of pain victims to access more effective treatment. Purdue Pharma was at the forefront of this movement. It had invested millions of dollars to develop new kinds of pain drugs, and it made equally generous contributions to activist associations like the American Pain Association to kickstart the lobbying effort to ensure that government regulation didn't keep its product out of the hands of consumers. The company maintained that to treat pain effectively, drugs had to contain opiates. Through initiatives like an interactive website called "Partners Against Pain" launched in 1994, Purdue Pharma trumpeted the power of opiates and channeled the growing demand for pain relief into a cry for more access to opiate-based medications. 

In the heat of this campaign, Purdue Pharma gained a powerful ally. Doctors would no longer be a medical paradox. The company believed it had harnessed opiates' power to relieve pain while diffusing their potential to foster addiction. By 2000, OxyContin was the number one selling opiate painkiller in America. Last year, gross sales totaled $1.5 billion. 

But as sales mounted, drug users discovered OxyContin's Achilles' heel. Crush the tablets, and the clever time-release system falls apart. Recreational drug users began snorting and injecting pulverized and dissolved OxyContin powder for an immediate, powerful high, one comparable to that from heroin. (One drug counselor told me that a recovering addict described the OxyContin high as equivalent to taking 50 doses of percocet.) Because OxyContin is commercially distributed to pharmacies across the United States, it does not require extensive illegal distribution networks or black market infrastructure: Purdue's own efforts to market and disseminate the drug meant ease of access for both pain victims and those who would finagle it out of a pharmacist or rob a supply truck for their fix. Five years after its release on the market, OxyContin exploded across newspaper headlines as the hottest new drug in America. 

When the Food and Drug Administration approved OxyContin, they too accepted Purdue Pharma's assurance that the time-release matrix would be tamper-proof and that Purdue had resolved opiate's inherent contradiction. But in 1999, the FDA formulated a new policy designed to combat any "remaining uncertainties" about approved drugs. In a memorandum issued in May of that year, the Task Force on Risk Management required pharmaceutical companies who marketed potentially addictive drugs to design a "risk-management program." Companies had to collect data from around the country on how their drugs were being used. If their research uncovered any previously unforeseen "special risks," the manufacturer had to intervene by limiting distribution or designing mandatory education programs for doctors on cautious prescribing. 

But by 2001, zealous regulators were not the only ones threatening OxyContin's future. Newspapers and television specials were suggesting that for every injured coastguard officer saved by an OxyContin miracle, a bored teenager in backcountry Maine was sniffing his grandmother's prescription. Scared doctors started prescribing OxyContin less. With hysteria spreading and Purdue Pharma's bottom line threatened, Oxycontin's "special risks" were cropping up everywhere. Purdue Pharma had no choice but to intervene.


BEFORE HE CAME TO PURDUE PHARMA, Dr. Sidney Schnoll spent over 20 years on the frontlines of the drug war, treating opiate addicted patients lost in the hazy territory between abuse and legitimate pain relief. In 2001, Purdue Pharma lured Schnoll away from his clinical battles to its corporate headquarters, where he became Executive Medical Director for Health Policy. Despite a growing public relations disaster and the demands of watchful regulators, Purdue's CEO convinced Schnoll that they wanted him to monitor OxyContin abuse not out of concern for their bottom line but "because it's the right thing to do." 

From the start Schnoll engineered Purdue Pharma's surveillance of OxyContin. With the help of an External Advisory Board of what Schnoll termed "world-renowned experts," he masterminded a $5 million a year risk management program called Researched Abuse Diversion and Addiction Related Surveillance (RADARS). In the first phase of RADARS, Purdue Pharma would collect data from across the country. Schnoll would reap information from databanks in Missouri, Delaware, Pennsylvania, and Colorado, compensating centers that invested in additional research to meet Purdue Pharma's demands. Backed by Purdue Pharma's funding, teams would be dispatched to hot zones in rural Virginia and Maine. For Schnoll, this effort-which would divert five million dollars from $1.5 billion in gross sales-reflected Purdue Pharma's commitment to civic responsibility. "We're a part of society. Even though we are a corporation, we cannot separate ourselves from the society in which we function." 

To head up the Maine portion of the study, Schnoll enlisted a Yale doctor named Robert Heimer. When Schnoll first approached him with the offer, Heimer did not hesitate to accept despite the bad press Purdue Pharma had been receiving. While acknowledging that "a lot of negative press ... compromises their ability to achieve their free market potential," he saw their desire to combat "media hype" as perfectly reasonable. Whether or not Purdue hoped that Heimer would expose the alleged OxyContin epidemic as media invention-allowing them to continue their aggressive marketing and distribution campaign guilt-free-he saw no intention on the part of Purdue Pharma to hide or manipulate his findings. In fact, Schnoll had insisted that researchers retain full control over any data collected in Maine, and only barred investigators from publishing any proprietary information, like a technical description of OxyContin's time-release matrix. Nabarun Dasgupta, a field coordinator for Heimer's study, spent the entire summer in Maine and never saw, met, or spoke with anybody who worked for Purdue Pharma. 

On June 28TH, 2002, three days before Yale researchers arrived in Maine, Purdue Pharma representatives convened a press conference in Portland. They had arrived with the team of Yale researchers to help Maine figure out why young men were overdosing and infants were being born addicted to drugs. The press conference was meant to showcase the company's good intentions and civic integrity. But once researchers were on the ground, the effect of the event-and the publicity that surrounded it-seemed to be the exact opposite: Purdue Pharma's spectacle left Mainers distrustful and wary of participating. As Dasgupta recalled, one man refused outright "because it was paid for by Purdue."


BUT BEFORE POTENTIAL PARTICIPANTS could turn down Nabarun Dasgupta and Mark Kinzly, the Yale team had to find some OxyContin addicts, to no one's great surprise, proved somewhat hard to find. It's easy to pick out some kinds of opiate addicts. For example, Kinzly could stroll through a neighborhood known for its drug trade and identify heroin users by the scars in their elbow crooks, between their fingers, and, since it was summer, on the tops of their feet. But pills do not leave similar tracks. 

To find prescription pill users, Heimer's team used a research method called respondent-driven sampling. They printed up hundreds of yellow coupons emblazoned with the acronym CASUM-Community Assessment of Substance Use in Maine-with three different phone numbers where investigators could be reached. Respondents who could prove they were opiate abusers would get $20 for their interview, and five dollars for every additional person they referred to CASUM. Kinzly and Dasgupta carried booklets in their pockets, gave them to methadone clinics and doctors' offices, and deposited them in unemployment offices. Word of the study spread much the same way that word of OxyContin had a few years earlier. A user might pass his friend a coupon as a way of making some extra cash. When a dealer slipped his buyer a baggie, he might tuck a folded coupon underneath. 

Dasgupta and Kinzly went anywhere users were comfortable being interviewed: coffee houses, parks, people's homes. Investigators first presented participants with an 8.5 by 11 chart, a sort of police lineup of 20 different tablets, and asked them to point to the drugs they had done in the last 30 days. They slipped OxyContin somewhere into the middle, a diagonal staircase of pink, gold, and green pills. Respondents who signaled any opiate qualified as participants. After some initial quantitative questions, the sessions turned free-form, flowing into conversations that lasted anywhere from five minutes to three and a half hours. 

Kinzly and Dasgupta heard countless stories like that of one accident victim, a former Coast Guard officer who had been hurled against the side of a yacht by a wave. The impact severed one testicle, pushed the other inside of his body, and paralyzed his entire right side, leaving him unable to perform even the most menial tasks without pain. Doctors prescribed everything-Percocet, Methadone, Vicodin-but nothing worked. After a doctor's suggestion that he try street heroin left him strung out for two years, he discovered OxyContin. It worked. 

"We were going 12 to 16 hours a day. It was a lot of damn work," Kinzly remembers. In the end, the Yale team conducted 275 interviews over two and a half months. This spring, they will release a full report of their findings. 

DASGUPTA DOESN'T NEED A REPORT to validate his efforts for Purdue Pharma. He knows he helped suffering addicts. One man arrived to his interview with puffy hands infected from using dirty needles at shallow angles to shoot up. Dasgupta connected him with a local needle exchange program and taught him how to inject properly. He met an AIDS patient who first used OxyContin to alleviate pain caused by anti-retroviral drugs. When Dasgupta met him, he was struggling to get clean, but hated attending crowded, often useless Alcoholics Anonymous meetings. Dasgupta gave him the number for Narcotics Anonymous, a much smaller program targeted at opiate addiction. By the end of the summer, people recognized Dasgupta on the street and would stop to say hello--although sometimes passersbys had an ulterior motive since, as he put it, "they knew we had condoms and other harm reduction tools and we would give them out." 

The Yale team also used Purdue Pharma's money to fight Maine's addiction problem in more systematic ways. Researchers taught EMTs and policemen to use Naloxone, an opiate antagonist that neutralizes a high when injected, and connected local authorities with funding sources to keep it in stock. Since users were often amateurs playing in a league of drug habits way above their skill level, Dasgupta and his colleagues trained them as well. They designed and disseminated pamphlets on how to snort, smoke, and inject while doing as little damage as possible. 

Purdue Pharma has also intervened to fight OxyContin abuse. When pharmacies complained that dealers were using fake prescriptions to obtain OxyContin, Purdue Pharma created a new forge-proof prescription pad for doctors to use specifically for OxyContin. They pulled a 160 milligram pill from the market because its danger to addicts outweighed its medical value. Six months ago, RADARS data revealed that Maine's dealers smuggled much of their OxyContin in from Canada. Purdue Pharma now stamps each Canadian tablet with the letters CAN, allowing law enforcement officials to identify illegal tablets on the street. When an armed gang robbed a Mexican warehouse, Purdue Pharma halted distribution there. Purdue Pharma scientists have started work on a reformulated OxyContin pill, one that keeps the time-release mechanism intact even when pills are crushed. 

According to Schnoll, Purdue Pharma will unveil the second phase of its risk-management program, its official intervention plan, in the next six months. He maintains that if the CASUM team's programs and Purdue Pharma's reforms last year are indicative of anything, it is that Purdue Pharma will maintain a community-oriented focus, and will make the commitment to "understand the problem and assist in any way we can." But Purdue Pharma has already staked out firm boundaries to their magnanimity. As Schnoll sees it, Purdue Pharma has already staked out firm boundaries to their magnanimity. As Schnoll sees it, Purdue Pharma's magnanimity.