Publication date: October 10, 1971
Volume: 5
Issue number: 1

**MASTHEAD**
- Editors: Richard Conniff, Suzanne Wittebort
- Associate Editors: Joel Rogers, Ron Roel
- Executive Editor: Michael Csar
- Designer: Judith Fletcher
- Business Manager: Ray Rund
- Contributing Editors: Jonathan Marks, Stephen Thomas, Sam Miller, Dan Mcintyre, Leo Ribuffo, Michael Lerner, Steven R. Weisman
- Staff: Rachel Hooper, Kiki Gordon, John Gussman, Suzanne Wofford, Roople Hacher, Tom Joseph, Kathy Lally, Dee Siegelbaum
- Publisher: Paul Goldberger


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- Striking Out - Sherman Chickering
- An Interview with Chou En-Lai
- One Man's Mead


**Title: Comment**
**Author: Richard Conniff**
**Page number(s): 2**

The New Journal
Yale is back, likewise The New Journal, 
and while the first was perhaps inevitable, 
the second - for financial reasons - was far from it. But anyone 
can tell you how hard times are in 
New Haven. 

The question, then, for the uninitiated-and the absent minded, is: what 
is The New Journal. 

We are first of all a publication of 
the Yale community, financially and 
editorially independent of the university. Published every three weeks, The 
New Journal includes interviews, reviews, news commentary fiction, 
photography, and fine graphics. The 
New Journal serves as the only university-wide medium for intelligent 
debate and is wont, when it finds 
muck, to rake it - in honest, carefully 
researched articles. We think it is worth 
your reading time. 

You may, we hope, also think The 
New Journal worth working for. We 
need assistance in every phase of the 
magazine's production (freelancing 
welcome). We have no heel and we ate 
open to suggestions and innovation. 
Call us any time if you'd like to help. 

With this issue, Volume five, number one, The New Journal passes into 
the hands of a new generation of editors. We are optimistic. Two years ago, 
one of our editors wrote, "We may 
well fail," and that is still possible. 
But we disagree with him when he 
adds that in this "existentially draining 
world even the thought of failure is . 
invigorating." Bah. Nothing could be 
worse. 

Love us or hate us, wonder if we 
hold nothing sacred, but speak out. 
Vigorously. We'll do the same. 

Richard Conniff


**Title: More Poured Concrete**
**Author: Paul Goldberger**
**Page number(s): 2-3**

Last week a sign on one of the front 
doors of the new Health Center on 
Hillhouse Avenue read "Please Do 
Not Use - Handle is Broken." 

The sign was in refreshing contrast 
to the slick, cool, mechanical perfection 
of the rest of the building. Like 
its immediate predecessors on the Yale 
architectural scene - the Cross Campus 
Library and the Becton Engineering 
Center - the new Health Center is 
not the warmest of buildings. 

But while the Health Center shares 
the antiseptic atmosphere of Becton 
and the Cross Campus Library to a 
certain degree it is, a far better building. On the one hand, it lacks the sense 
of being overdesigned that the foolish 
rubber stamp window pattern of Becton 
gives to the facade of that building; 
on the other hand, it lacks the utter 
sterility of the Cross Campus Library. 
Of course, anything could be warmer 
than that; but still, the Health Center 
makes a real effort to create an inviting 
space, even if it doesn't fully succeed. 

The new building gets high marks 
for effort. The facade tries to be dynamic 
with its. varying pattern of window 
arrangements; unfortunately, the 
whole thing ends up looking like a Le 
Corbusier facade that someone put a 
sander to. It is too flattened, too 
smooth. 

The architects - Helge Westermann-
Richard Miller Associates of New 
York made a good try at reducing 
the impact of the building's enormous 
bulk on Hillhouse Avenue, a 
street of low scale that cries out for 
non-monumental construction. Their 
solution was to lower the building by 
one floor on the Hillhouse Avenue 
side, and place the bulky volume in 
the rear. From the street this gives the 
effect of two wings, though this isn't 
reflected in the plan of the building. 
Alas, this one, too, doesn't quite come 
off. The bulk of the rear "wing" is 
just too imposing; it dominates Hill-
house from either end of the street. 

But in their attempt to relate to the 
street, however awkward, Westermann-
Miller showed themselves far more 
sensitive urban architects than Marcel 
Breuer at Becton. The Becton Center 
tries its best to overrun Prospect Street, 
instead of cooperating with its scale. 

The new Health Center should work 
well with Robert Venturi's projected 
Mathematics Building across the street, 
the subject of cruel and undeserved attack 
in last week's Yale Daily News. 
The gentle curve of the Math Building's 
facade should perfectly complement 
the sharp straight lines of the Health 
Center. (The Math Building, in fact, 
succeeds in doing what the Health Center 
couldn't: creating an interesting, 
yet modest, facade that could work 
itself into the complex fabric of Hill-
house Avenue.) 

Inside, the Health Center is a bit 
more traditional and a bit more successful 
as well. The interiors are 
"standard modern" - almost a bit 
cliched, in fact, with cinder blocks 
and concrete matched with stained 
woods, indirect lighting, and not-too-far-out 
"designer" chairs. It's a 
formula that calls to mind The Architects' 
Collaborative among other 
firms, and it's really Yale's first exposure 
on full building scale to this 
sort of design, not quite like the cool 
corporate modernism of Reinecke or 
the rough-and-tough modernism of the 
Art and Architecture Building. It's 
something oddly in-between, and 
somehow, from the heavy woods and 
cinder blocks, a strange sort of warmth 
and elegance emerge. 

The patients' rooms on the infirmary 
floors are simpler. (One of the 
first students to spend a few nights 
there said "It's sort of like being sick 
in a room at Howard Johnson's Motor 
Lodge.") But bright colors, good views 
from many of the windows, and new 
furniture make the rooms an elegant 
step up from the old infirmary - in 
fact they are probably an elegant step 
up from most regular hospital rooms. 

Almost all the furniture and equipment 
in the Health Center is new. In 
fact, just about the only holdover 
from the old Department of University 
Health building - without them, 
no one would feel at home - are the 
magazines. Like always, they're all 
six months old. 

Paul Goldberger


**Title: Clean Machine**
**Author:  (Not specified)**
**Page number(s): 3**

Bart Guida, New Haven's diminutive 
mayor, proved in last month's 
Democratic primary that the meek 
shall indeed inherit the earth. A 
humble, almost corpse-like man, ever 
amazed along with his fellow towns-
men that he can win, Guida captured 
a clear majority of the votes cast in 
the three-way race and, by so doing, 
shattered the dream of New Haven's 
"reform" democrats led by Hank Parker. 

Winning was the reformers' last 
dream: the others had been discarded 
as excess baggage in the drive to win. 
The desire to return government to the 
people, the desire to make New Haven 
a decent community, the hope of en-
continued on page 15


**Title: Striking Out**
**Author: Sherman Chickering**
**Page number(s): 3-4**

Graduation day at Yale this year 
was no picnic. It seemed at times more 
like an old-fashioned sit-in. Twelve 
people were arrested and several hundred 
Yale workers tried to shut down 
the graduation. They tried to stop the 
academic procession by bulldogging 
their way through a double cordon of 
New Haven cops. They didn't make 
it. But they put on a show which starred, 
among others, National Welfare 
Rights Director George Wiley, civil 
rights leader Father James Groppi, 
and both the 1970 and 1971 Presidents 
of the National Student Association, 
hardly a normal union strike force. Of 
course, Yale's workers hardly constitute 
a normal union. In fact, they're 
not really a union at all. They're a 
movement. 

Yale workers went on strike April 
30. During the spring, the campus reverberated 
to much noise on the subject, 
and virtually no understanding 
whatsoever. Despite Yale's reputation 
for radical chic, no one could figure 
out why the union was striking. Most 
people assumed, that the union was 
going out over traditional bread and 
butter issues. After all, it just didn't 
make sense that the union was striking 
over "job security." 

From late January through graduation 
day, Yale's management representatives 
and union leaders had been 
deadlocked over that very issue. The 
union demanded a management guarantee 
that Yale would not place more 
bursary students in "union jobs." 
Management countered that, as a 
"matter of principle," it would not 
limit its rights to employ students. The 
union observed that management could 
fill up "union jobs" with bursary students 
through attrition - when a union 
man quit his job, it would go to a student, 
rather than a worker. Management 
argued that it couldn't protect 
future workers by "freezing" their job 
slot, just so the union could preserve 
its size. "We're not in the business of 
welfare," said Management, to which 
the union replied, "we're not looking 
for handouts, we're looking for a fair 
shake," and went out on strike. Yale 
was then confronted with the curious 
spectacle of workers whose own jobs 
were protected by Yale's no-layoff 
guarantee, agreeing to strike essentially 
for the sake of union solidarity. 

The few people at Yale who followed 
the facts this far, and chose not 
to bail out behind the surreality of the 
situation, immediately focused speculation 
upon the union's charismatic 
leader, Vincent Sirabella. They surmised 
that Sirabella wanted to preserve union 
job slots simply to feather-
Sherman Chickering (SBC '62) is 
currently working on a book. His 
writing has appeared in the Saturday 
Review, The New York Times, the 
American Scholar, Harper's, and the 
Rolling Stone. 

bed his own pocket - despite the fact 
that a union composed of 1157 largely 
unskilled workers would have trouble 
keeping a midget in breakfast cereal; 
they speculated that Sirabella's mayoralty 
campaign was running on an anti-
Yale ticket - despite the fact that 
"campaigner" Sirabella hardly raised 
a Yale-related issue off campus; they 
proposed that Sirabella was simply a 
demagogue ego-tripping off his workers 
- despite the fact that the man issued 
a number of statements which by all 
rights should have damaged his following. 
Nobody managed to get hold 
of Sirabella's number, but they were 
right about one thing; the man indeed 
is the one responsible for creating an 
impossible strike. 

Sirabella accomplished the impossible 
because he had two all-absorbing 
problems and two all-powerful assets 
to deal with. The problems were that 
his union was not a union and that a 
good many of his friends were a part of 
New Haven's growing 10 percent unemployed. 
The assets were that he is 
not very good at collective bargaining, 
and that his opponent at the bargaining 
table was Yale University. 

Sirabella's union is not a union because 
it never got itself together as 
Yale moved in its modern management 
team in 1966. Before 1966, the 
workers wallowed pleasantly, if penuriously, 
in the security of Yale's plantation 
paternalism. The new team, 
Photographs: Ann Goodman



**Frank Merriwell's Return**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
FrankMerrlweti is back. 
The original Frank Merriwell stories which 
thrilled untold millions in.previous generations 
now return. In paperback, hard cover and a special 
commemorative issue. 

**An Interview with Chou En-Lai**
**Author: Prepared by the Yale Chapter of the Committee of Concerned Asian Scholars and Edited by 'The New Journal'**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

Prepared by the Yale Chapter of the 
Committee of Concerned Asian 
Scholars and Edited by 'The New 
Journal' 
This tex t is excerpted from tape re-
cordings made by members of the 
Committee of Concerned Asian Schol-
ars Friendship Delegation to China 
during their four hour interview wi th 
Premier Chou En-Lai on July 19 in the 
Great Hall of the People, Peking_ As 
Chou himself pointed out, there is lots 
of room for error and misquotation 
in an interview of this nature. " Maybe 
I will say something wrong, or the in-
terpreter might interpret wrong." 
Therefore he expressly stated "If you 
are going to show your recordings 
when you get back to the United States 
States, you must make a statement at 
the beginning and say there are bound 
to be some wrong statements in this 
recording." 

The following transcript was sent 
by Pacific News Service and CCAS 
to the New Journal. CCAS was found-
ed in 1969 to struggle against the com-
plicity of the Asian studies field in 
supporting A merican domination of 
Asian societies. 

2 
The May 4th Movement of 1919 
was a series of large scale militant 
demonstrations organized by stu-
dents, workers, and merchants in 
all major Chinese cities. The agita-
tions were set off by decisions taken 
at the post-war Paris Peace confer-
ence which turned German commer-
cial concessions in the Shantung 
Penins1,1la o ver to Japan. 

Chou En-lai: We welcome you. It is 
rare that we are able to meet so many 
young American friends. We hear that 
you are a young generation of scholars. 
We have heard that you think the pre-
sent youth movement in the United 
States is similar to the May Fourth 
Movement in China. I was a participant 
in the May Fourth movement and 
meeting you, it seems that I have gone 
back 52 years. But I don't think it's 
exactly the same. Perhaps you also 
have a bit of our Red Guard Move-
ment in your movement now. Is that 
so? 

CCAS: I think that's a very good 
analysis. 

Chou En-Lai: I understand you're the 
liaison officer. During the May 4th 
Movement in China we also liked 
to pick young women to be our lead-
ers. For instance, my wife, Comrade 
Teng Ying·Ch'ao, did that work when 
she was only 15. At that time, we had 
a majority of middle school students 
in the movement and the college stu-
dents were only a minority. Now you 
are all college graduates, as in our Red 
Guard period. It is a Red Guard trend 
of thought that they don't like to be 
called 'minister' or 'section head' or 
'director'. We must do away with the 
bureaucratic structure and call our-
selves 'service personnel' of the people. 

An Interview with Chou En-Lai
I think you have the same ideas. We 
see some of your men wearing their 
hair long and growing beards to ex-
press dissatisfaction with the status 
quo. There are two men here with large 
beards. 

Those in the Red Guard movement 
liked to wear coarse clothes, army uni-
forms, and armbands and also clothes 
that had as many patches as possible. 
You were asking why people weren't 
wearing the colorful cloth produced in 
the textile mills. It is because the cus-
tom today is to live simply and to 
wear simple clothes (as a symbol of 
discipline.) The style of simplicity is 
also in opposition to bourgeois de-
gradation. 

Chou En-lai: You are right to want to 
go among the masses of the Chinese 
people. There is not OJuch to talk about 
with us (laughter) - just the same o ld 
issues. You will see that what Mrs. 
Chou En-lai sa~ has all been printed 
in the newspapers (laughter) and to 
listen to it is nauseating (laughter). 
Isn't that so? 

CCAS: (CCAS expresses a desire to 
see factories and communes not pre-
viously visited by Westerners) 

Chou: You are right and I thank you. 
We will arrange it. That's the right 
way to do things - criticize us. It is 
also criticism for our Travel Bureau, 
and above them there is the Foreign 
Ministry. We welcome very much this 
spiritual help from you. It is "recti-
fying wrong ideas". That is Chair-
man Mao's wording. It is not brain-
washing; it is rectifying erroneous 
ideas. I haven't thought of a way to 
wash one's brain yet. In a certain 
sense I would like to have my brain 
washed of the old ideas in my mind. 
I have already passed 73. How can it 
be said that I have no old ideas in my 
head? I came over from the old so-
ciety. 

In the old society, I wore a braid, 
a pigtail. But, of course, you can't see 
it on me now. In all the cities and in 
the great and overwhelming majority 
of the countryside you can't see that 
phenomenon any more. But I cannot 
say it has completely died. 

Another phenomenon: there are 
a number of women whose feet were 
once bound. This is left over from the 
old society, the old system. So there 
are no people in Chinese society who 
have bound feet now? There still are. 
This seems a very new experience for 
foreign friends, for instance the binding 
of feet is a phenomenon which the old 
society should be held responsible for. 


**Title: A Conversation with Premier Chou En-lai**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 7-9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:

"
We were the ones who overthrew the 
old system. We have been persuading 
people not to bind their feet, but 
what about the old people? Their feet 
have already been bound, and you can· 
not cut off those feet, nor can they be 
restored to the original shape because 
the bones were broken. There is no way 
way to restore them. And we cannot 
attempt to hide them at home. Such 
an attempt would be reactionary. My 
mother had bound feet. But if it were 
not for her, how would I have come 
to be? My mcther herself cannot be 
responsible for having her feet bound 
either; she was also sacrificed by the 
old society. 

When foreign friends take pictures 
of such things, you must investigate 
.to see from what point of view they 
conceive of doing so. For instance, if 
they say that this is something left 
over from the old system, and they 
show the picture of bound feet as a 
comparison of the old and new so-
ciety, that is good. The new society 
always grows up upon the basis of the 
old society. If there were not the old, 
where would the new come from? 
They are opposites; they are in op-
position to each other. It's a dialecti-
cal matter. 

Who are there among you who 
would like to talk about philosophy? 
Later on you can have your say. But I 
haven't finished yet. (laughter) 

We stand on the position of the 
proletariat, and you of course are 
clear about that. As for our views we 
do our utmost to see that they are in 
accordance with those of Marx, Len-
in and Mao Tse-tung. 

You say that the youth are better 
than the older generation. We agree. 
We say that those who come later be-
come better. I am much older than 
they are, and I talk so much that there 
are bound to be flaws. It's not very 
favorable to be a Premier at such an 
advanced age. All right, don't let me 
be t1ie only one to speak. 

CCAS: I would like to say a word first. 
The aim of our trip to China has been 
to further the friendship and under· 
standing between the Chinese and 
American peoples. We believe that our 
main task when we return to the 
United States is to communicate to 
the American people the tremendous 
achievements and progress that have 
been made by the Peoples' Republic 
of China and the Chinese people. 

Chou En-lai: You must add some-
thing to that. You must say that there 
has been progress made, but there is 
still a lot to work on. Otherwise the 
viewpoint would not be complete. 

There are also some phenomena 
which are in the process of moving 
from the lower to the higher stage. 
This is the way things develop. If you 
simply say that there has been pro-
gress, people won't believe you. 

CCAS: We hope to get an accurate 
picture of China, and Pa$S this on to 
the American people. We feel that 
this has not been done in the past, 
and that the Arne rican people have a 
distorted picture of the Chinese people. 

1 Chang Ch'un Ch'iao and Yao Wen-
yuan are both members of the 
Central Committee of the Com-
m unist Party of China. Both were 
involved in· the "January Revolu-
tion " in Shanghai in 1967 an ad-
vanced group of the Cultural Revol-
ution. 

Chou En-lai Although the contribu-
tion which you make may be small 
at the beginning, its influence will 
gradually grow. And that is the way 
all new things develop. Who was going 
to put forward some philosophical 
problems to these two comrades here?* 

CCAS: I'm interested in the move-
ment to study philosophy that has 
arisen among the Chinese masses since 
the cultural revolution. I believe it has 
great significance, not only for China, 
but also for the American movement. 
Could I ask either Comrade Chang or 
Comrade Yao how they particularly 
study philosophy and how they apply 
it in their daily work? 

Yao: I agree with your idea and your 
question. We study some philosophical 
works of Chairman Mao Tse-tung and 
also some of the works of Marx and 
Lenin. Our aim is to come to know the 
world and to transform the world. 
And in transforming the world there 
are two aspects; that is, to transform 
society, and also to transform one's 
own ideas, one's ideology. 

For instance, Chairman Mao Tse-
tung put forward a thesis of contin-
uing the revolution under the dicta-
torship of the proletariat, and this is 
in itself a very important philosophical 
problem that is to say, in a socialist 
society there still exist classes, class 
contradictions, and class struggle. And 
personally, it has taken me a gradual 
process to come to understand this 
question. 

All this in the final analysis is a 
question of one's world outlook, a 
question of philosophy. And this is 
what we call "to study with problems 
in mind". And in my practice in the 
revolution the problems that I have 
come up against most are ideological 
ones. My study in this field has not 
been as good as the advanced elements 
of the workers, peasants and People's 
liberation Army. I should continue to 
learn from them. To study philosophy 
one must study the present situation, 
history, theory, and make the correct 
analysis, draw out the correct conclu-
sions, and be able to find the laws 
guiding the development. 

CCAS: I have a non-philosophical 
question What is there that has 
changed the relationship between the 
Chinese and American people after 22 
years of separation? And what are the 
biggest problems we still have in de-
veloping the friendship between the 
Chinese and American people? 

Chou En-lai: The foremost thing is 
that the Chinese and American people 
wish to exchange visits with each other 
and this strong desire has broken 
through the barriers. Isn't one of your 
points that you believe that the older 
generation of Asian scholars in Amer-
ica has gotten mixed up with the 
government, or has become silent? 

CCAS: That's right. 

Chou En-lai: First, I agree with your 
aims. But secondly, I must say some 
words of sympathy for them. They 
happened to be oppressed in the 50's, 
during the McCarthy period, and this 
was a great harm for them. I recall 
what I said, at the Bandung Confer-


--- Page 8 ---

ence in 1955. It was that peoples of 
China and the United States wished 
to have friendly contact with each 
other. It cannot be said that there was 
no response to my words. There were 
a few progressive correspondents who 
wished to come to China, but theSe· 
cretary of State at the time, John 
Foster Dulles, denied them that right. 
I believe that these facts could be 
found in the files of the State Depart· 
ment, and I don't think that they 
should be classified documents. 
(laughter) 

But now we have passed through 
the sixties and entered the seventies. 
And it's your generation, your era, 
and you have broken through the bar-
riers. And so with one sentence of 
Chairman Mao's we invited the United 
States table tennis team to visit China. 
And so they came! The barriers were 
broken through. For this we must 
thank the new forces of your era. Isn't 
that so? And these new and friendly 
contacts are bound to continue. When 
you go back you will introduce even 
more American friends to us. Also 
some black friends. Of course if you 
would be able to introduce some 
minorities of the United States to us, 
we would be very thankful. 

Let them all come to China to have 
a look. Of course, we will also return 
the visits. Your CCAS, the Commit-
tee of Concerned Asian Scholars (this 
he said in English) has invited us, and 
since you are so kind, I think that our 
young Chinese friends should afso re-
turn the visit I believe you will also 
welcome not only men, but also eo-
men (lau!tlter). It would be a good 
thing to make it equal in numbers. 

Even in our socialist country, a coun-
try of the dictatorship of the proletar-
iat, male chauvinism comes up now 
and then. Of course subconsciously. 

Chang: Today, seated here among the 
Chinese comrades, the number of 
men and women are not equal yet. 

Chou En-Jai: See, he's criticizing me. 
Yet I have tried my utmost to pay at· 
tention to the fact. When I invited the 
comrades from Tsinghue University, 
I invited one man and one woman ... 

CCAS: How do you view internal 
events in the United States and their 
relationship to the new contact be-
tween China and the United States? 

Chou En-lai: Different states still 
exist in the world, and if there is no 
normalization of the relations between 
the two states, then it will be impos· 
sible for contact between the two peo-
ples to develop unhindered. The gov-
ernments of the two countries bear 
the main responsibility in this. It will 
take process and time. Isn't that so? 

One of you said that though the re~ 
volutionary movement in United States 
is developing, it cannot be said that it 
would be able to transform the entire 
system at the present date. It will take 
time to transform society. In recent 
years, Chairman Mao himself has paid 
attention to the American situation. 
He has asked us all to note the fact 
that it can be said that the United 
States is now on the eve of a great 
storm. But the question of how this 
storm shall be developed is yours, not 
ours. We can only tell you about 
something of our hopes. 

To normalize relations we must con-
tact those who are in authority in 
your country. Your president has said 
that he wishes to move toward friend-
ship and that he hopes to visit ·China. 
Naturally we can invite him, in order 
to seek the normalization of relations 
between the two countries, and also to 
discuss questions concerning both 
sides. But what are the obstructions to 
the improvement of the relations be-

CCAS: Taiwan ... lndochina ... 

Chou En-lai: You have mentioned the 
ri!tlt problems. I would like to reaf· 
firm our stand on Taiwan. 

First, if state relations are to bees-
tablished between the United States 
and China, then it must be recognized 
that the government of the People's 
Republic of China is the sole legiti-
mate government representing the 
Chinese people. 

Second, Taiwan is a province of 
China and it is an inalienable part of 
China's territory. After the second 
World War Taiwan was restored to 
China. The liberation of Taiwan by the 
Chinese people is an internal affair of 
China which brooks no foreign inter-
vention. 

Third, the theory that the status of 
Taiwan is yet unsettled is absurd. In 
1894, Japan defeated China in war and 
took Taiwan. During the Second World 
War, however, in the Cairo Declaration 
and later in the Potsdam Proclama-
tion, it was affirmed that Taiwan should 
should be returned to China. Then in 
1945, when Japan surrendered, the 
Chinese government accepted the re-
turn of Taiwan. 

Fourth, we oppose any advo-
cation of a two-China policy, or any 
similar policy. And if such a situation 
continues in the United Nations, we 
will not go there. 

Fifth, we are resolutely op-
posed to the so-called "Taiwan inde-
pendence movement." Because the 
people in Taiwan are Chinese. Taiwan 
was originally a province of China. And 
a thousand years ago it had already 
become a part of China. The dialect 
spoken in Taiwan is the same dialect 
spoken in the area around Amoy in 
Fukier Province. Of course there are 
minority nationalities like the Kaoshan 
nationality in Taiwan, the minority 
that lives on the high hills. There are 
also various national minorities on the 
mainland and we pursue a policy of 
national equality. Besides, the "Tai-
wan independence movement" is not 
a native movement in itself. It is a 
movement which has behind it special 
manipulation by foreign forces. One of 
their leaders is P'eng Ming-min who 
was originally a student at Harvard, 
then returned to Taiwan to become a 
professor, and now is back in the 
United States. There is some element 
of this movement in Japan. They are 
supported by the Japanese government. 

Sixth, the United States·should 
withdraw all of its present mili-
tary strength and military installa-
tions from Taiwan and the Taiwan 
Straits. The defense treaty which was 
agreed to by the United States and 
Chiang Kai-shek in 1954 (about the 
so-called "defense of Taiwan and 
Panghu") is illegal, and the Olinese 
people do not recognize that treaty. 

This is our stand. It has not changed 
since the beginning of the Ambassa-
dorial Talks between China and the 
United States that began on the first 
of August. 1955. And it shall not 
change. 


--- Page 9 ---

You mentioned very correctly that 
we are also concerned with the Indo-
china issue. This question also con-
cerns China and the United States. You 
have said that one of your aims is op-
position to the aggressive policies of 
the United States in Indochina and 
Asia. Isn't that so? 

CCAS: Yes. 

Chou En-lai: The aggressive policies of 
the United States - at first in Vietnam 
- later expanded to the whole of 
Indochina. China has not gone to 
Vietnam or Indochina to commit ag-
gression. We are assisting the people 
there to fi~t against aggression. 

The question goes back to 1954. 
At that time during the Geneva Con-
ference we reached an agreement. At 
that time we Chinese and our Vietna-
mese friends, lacked experience in 
international subjects. The represen-
tatives of the United States did not 
sign the documents but only made a 
statement that they would not dis· 
.turb the agreement. But the reality 
was not so. 

How could it be that a country 
which would not sign an agreement 
would truly agree not to disturb it. 
Therefore, immediately following the 
Geneva Agreements, the Manila Con· 
terence was held at which SEATO was 
formed and a line of demarcation was 
drawn. Of course, SEATO has now 
gone bankrupt. But after the Geneva 
Agreement the election was not held 
and the U.S. assisted Ngo Dinh Diem 
to overthrow Bao Dai. The U.S. got 
control of South Vietnam that way. 

All those who participated in the Gen-
eva Conference will admit that if 
there had been an election in Viet-
nam as stipulated by the Geneva 
Agreements, President Ho Chi Minh 
would have been elected. Through the 
war of resistance against the French 
aggression he had won great esteem, 
not only among the Vietnamese peo· 
ple but also among the people of all 
Indochina. But that did not come 
about and the facts are the United 
States committed aggression first in 
Vietnam. 

Now this question lies before the 
people of the United States, the peo-
ple of Indochina and us, and the only 
way to solve this problem is that we 
show our complete support for the 7 
point proposaf put forth by Mme 
Nguven Thi Binh on the first of July 
on behalf of the Provisional Revolu· 
tionary Govt. of the South Vietnam 
Republic and the Vietnamese people, 
and the Chinese government and the 
Chinese people completely support 
this proposition. We know that broad 
masses of the people of the United 
States are also opposed to the aggres-
sive war in Vietnam which has now 
expanded into the whole of Indochina. 

We are a neighbor of the Indochin-
ese countries. We assisted them, sup-
ported them, in their war of resist~nce 
against France. And in the same spirit 
support them in their war of resis-
tance against US aggression for na· 
tional salvation. This is known to the 
world. No matter whether"in the 
United States or abroad, we believe 
the greatest cry is for the United States 
to withdraw its troops from Vietnam 
and the whole of Indochina. We be· 
lieve that at the present day among 
the American people the most out· 
standing issue is not only for the 
United States to withdraw its troops 
from Vietnam but also from the whole 
of Indochina not only troops but all 
military forces and all military instal· 
lations. 

It mi~t be said that this demand is 
even stronger than the demand to re-
store relations between the Chinese 
and American people. The people of 
the United States do not wish to sacri-
fice the lives of their people in a dirty 
war. 

We believe that the question to be 
solved first should be the question of 
Indochina, and by_doing so we would 
be satisfying not only the interests of 
the Indochinese people but also of the 
people of the United States. 

And besides these 2 issues I think 
there are other issues worth your at· 
tention. I should like to remind you 
that in Korea up to the present day 
there is only a ceasefire. Only an armis-
tice agreement was passed. After that 
there was a meeting in Geneva, the 
same Geneva Conference, in 1954. 
The first stage of that conference 
was devoted to Korea. It was com-
pletely without results. On the final 
day there was no result whatsoever 
with regard to the Korean question. 
Then what was the use of our coming? 
We said that at least we should set a 
date for another meeting. The foreign 
ministers of certain countries agreed 
to this, Mr. Spaak of Belgium for in-
stance. The chairman of the meeting 
was Mr. Eden. He wavered a bit and 
he tended to agree w ith us. But there 
was an authoritative representative 
seated at the conference who waved 
his hand in opposition. The Korea 
question was by-passed. You proba-
bly know who the representative was: 
the deputy of Mr. John Foster Dulles, 
Mr. Smith. He didn't say anything, he 
couldn't find any words. He just waved 
his hand. And so now at the 38th 
parallel in Korea there is a military 
armistice commission that meets every 
week. There's only a ceasefire, there's 
no other treaty whatsoever. Accord-
ing to international law the state of 
war has not yet ended. 

There are still American troops in 
South Korea. The Chinese Peoples' 
volunteers withdrew from Korea in 
1958. The American troops in South 
Korea are there under the banner of 
the United Nations. Yet many coun-
tries of the United Nations have with-
drawn their troops. It is almost the 
same case between China and Japan. 
The state of war has not been called 
off yet. We still have not concluded 
a peace treaty And in relation with 
that there is the whole question of 
Japan. 



**Title: It is a fact that Japanese militarism is being revived because the Japanese economy is developing.in a lop-sided way.**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
10/The New Journal/October 10, 1971 
It is a fact that Japanese militarism 
is being revived because the Japanese 
economy is developing.in a lop-sided 
way. They depend on foreign coun· 
tries for natural resources and for mar· 
kets too. After the war they were not 
burdened by paying reparations and 
for quite some time they spent very 
little on armaments. How was the 
Japanese economy developed? There 
is one characteristic of the develop· 
ment of their economy. that is, they 
made a fortune on wars fought by 
others, the war of aggression against 
Korea and the war of aggression against 
Vietnam. 

For instance, the United States 
estimates that within the past ten years, 
it has spent 120 billion American dollars 
on the Indochina war. Out of this Japan 
made quite a lot of money from the 
military repairs, transportation, and 
communication costs. In all these fields 
I think Japan made quite a lot of money. 
Twenty·five years after the second 
World War, Japan, a defeated power, 
has become the number two economic 
power in the Western countries. Presi· 
dent Nixon praises Japan as his biggest 
partner. He made that statement on the 
6th of July, in Kansas City. He also 
describes Japan as a competitor. Nixon 
praised Japan in these terms: that the 
output of steel in Japan last year ap-
proached 100 million tons. Japan 
either this year or next may catch up 
with the United States' 110 million 
tons annually in steel output. What 
will issue from this lopsided develop· 
ment of Japan? She needs to carry out 
an economic expansion abroad. Other· 
wise, she cannot maintain her economy. 
And so, being in a capitalist system, 
followinQ this economic expansion, 
there is inevitably. bound to come with 
it military expansion. Japan's fourth 
defense plan is from 1972 to 1976, 
and it plans to spend more than six· 
teen billion American dollars. In the 
first three defense plans from theSe· 
cond World War to 1971 Japan spent 
a total of only a bit over 1 0 billion. 
According to the present economic 
capacity of Japan, she does not require 
5 years to carry out this 4th plan. As 
we see it, they may be able to fulfill 
it in only 2 or 2Y:z years. It's all further 
proof, that the appetite, the ambitions 
are becoming greater. 

So there does exist this danger. And 
also, what is more, the peoples of the 
Pacific and first of all the peoples of 
the Far East are no longer the peoples 
of the 30's or the 40's. The Japanese 
people are aware of the fact that if 
Japanese-militarism is revived, it will 
not benefit Japan. 


**Title: Chou En-lai's Conversation with CCAS**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

Chou En·lai: National membership of 
CCAS are college graduates in the 
United States? 
CCAS There are some· who are study· 
ing in college. 
Chou En·lai: Then in our country, you 
would be considered high intellec· 
tuals, and you· have a heavy responsi· 
bility. And it is our responsibility to 
link the truth, the general truth, with 
actual practice. And that must be im· 
plemented through you. Some of you 
friends have said that foreign exper-
ience cannot be mechanically brought 
over to your country. 

We cannot impose on you, nor can 
you just mechanically copy from us. 
You can see the American youth is 
gradually raising their political con-
sciousness. According to our exper-
ience, it is always intellectuals who 
start out, because it is easier for them 
to accept revolutionary theory. and 
revolutionary experience from books. 
But for the movement to succeed, you 
must go among the workers, because 
in the United States the working class 
is the great majority of the people, 
and the peasantry is quite small. You 
must go into them deeply. Yes, one 
must go through some arduous pro-
cess. 

.. .like trying 
CCAS: I would like to say a word 
about the process which Premier Chou 
has talked about, because in the United 
States, in our struggle there has been 
a peculiar process of gaining informa-
tion and gaining knowledge. This 
is the question of knowledge. One of · 
the main contradictions of our pro-
cess of gaining information about the 
problems that we deal with is that we 
were only first awakened by the vio· 
lent struggl.e in Vietnam and our learn-
ing process then began to go back· 
wards. As we investigated the origins 
of the conflict in Vietnam we were 
taken further and further back. We 
were embarrassed the other evening 
when we were talking with our Korean 
friends that still we do not have a clear 
understanding of the Korean situation, 
so we keep on going backwards in our 
understanding. We think that our 
knowledge of the development of 
American imperialist policy is still 
imperfect in many ways. 

Chou En-lai: You have addressed your· 
selves to various problems throughout 
the world. Your American friends 
should have a broad perspective be-
cause as you know the United States 
after World War II has extended itself 
everywhere in the world, even to the 
moon. (Laughter) As Chairrman Mao 
said, they look into other people's 
affairs everywhere. And as a result, 
they merely put nooses about their 
own necks. There is a saying in China, 


--- Page 11 ---

to catch ten fleas with ten fingers. 
that that is like trying to catch ten 
fleas with ten fingers. When you are 
trying to catch one flea, another one 
jumps out. And the result is that all 
of them escape. And at the most, you 
can only catch one flea by freeing one 
of your hands and letting go five f leas 
instead. 

That is the predicament that Pres-
ident Nixon is now facing. But it 
would be more fair to say that it is not 
only of his own making but also 
something he couldn't even have 
dreamt of in those days. And the op-
posite of that is that people like you 
are rising up and tak ing action. 

At the conclusion of the Second 
World War the United States imperialists 
appeared to be almighty. The world 
is changing. But the American people 
should not feel any discouragemel't 
There is great hope for the American 
people. 

Although we are a socialist coun-
try, we must be vigilant against our-
selves. Chairman Mao constantly 
teaches us that we must at all times be 
on the alert against committing the 
mistake of big power chauvinism both 
at home and abroad. Because in the 
world there is another country which 
is learning from you and sending its 
hand out everywhere and competing 
with you. Economic competition is 
bound to bring with it military com-
petition. Economic development 
combined w ith military expansion is 
bound to occupy various places 
throughout the world. 

In our revolution, many of our 
comrades sacrificed their lives. Chair-
man Mao often says that we are those 
left over from the Revolutionary Wars. 
You have the spirit of pioneers. Al-
most 200 years now, isn't that so? 
Chairman Mao often likes to talk 
about when George Washington rose 
up to oppose the British Colonial rule 
with only a population of three mil-
lion. At that time Britain had proba-
bly a population of around ten times 
the population of the United States. 
But you had the pioneering spirit, fear-
ing no difficulties, and the British Col-
onial army was beaten by you every-
where. And the Americans at that 
time precisely carried out guerrilla 
warfare, firing from this corner and 
that corner. And you started your 
struggle in 1775. And on your 200th 
anniversary you will come again. At 
that time you may only see two of us. 
At that time we will congratulate you. 
Five years is not a long time. 

If one puts in efforts and struggles 
hard, great results will take place. For 
instance when the Chinese Commun-
ist Party was founded in 19i1, there 
were only 12 deputies to the First 
Party Congress, and the total number 
of Communist Party members at that 
time did not exceed 70. But only about 
three years later in 1924, it had 
changed tremendously. By 1926 our 
forces were already above fifty thou-
sand. Such tremendous changes took 
place within a period of only five years, 
but your era is totally different from 
the era of those days. While we can 
make the comparison, history will 
not re-enact itself. We always say that 
times are advancing, and time will not 
turn back. 

CCAS: I would like to make some 
closing remarks. First I w ant to extend 
our thanks, to Premier Chou, 
and comrades Chang and Yau from 
the central Committee. We firmly be-
lieve again that the real heroes of the 
anti-imperialist struggle in Asia are in 
fact the Asian people- the Indochin-
ese people, the Korean people, and the 
Chinese people. 

P. Chou: But if you make efforts, you 
will become world heroes. 

CCAS: I would like to present some 
symbols to our Chinese friends here, 
similar to what we have presented as 
gifts everywhere. There are two sym-
bols. One is a photograph of our group. 
The other is a button. On both of these 
symbols is written, "Long live the 
friendship of the Chinese and American 
peoples." (applause) And on both of 
these can be found a peace symbol. 

Chou: That is our final aim.e 



**Title: One Man's Mead**
**Author: Dewey Faulkner**
**Page number(s): 11-12**

Dewey Faulkner 
Dewey Faulkner teaches Beowulf 
and other things at Yale. He dabbles 
from time to time in translating 
Beowulf into 'its only historically 
justifiable form,' heroic couplets. 
One Man's Mead 
And if the Babe is born a Boy 
He's given to a Woman Old, 
Who nails him down upon a rock, 
Catches his shrieks in cups of gold. 

So begins John Gardner's Grendel. 
This isn't an obscure passage of Anglo-
Saxon poetry that has gained a lot in 
translation; it is a stanza from Blake's 
'Mental Traveller' that contains an 
image of life in our fallen world - here 
viewed as an image of Beowulf's 
Grendel and his mother. With this 
epigraph the author gives fair warning 
of the allusive, consciously 'literary': 
quality of the book to come. If you 
skip the epigraph, you'll find the book 
to be as gutsy as is necessary - for 
sales as well. Esquire is reprinting 
parts of it; critics uniformly are in 
squealing ecstasies over it. At this 
stage the only thing to do is read it. 
You'll probably like it. (Even people 
who do not especially like modern 
novels and who do especially like 
Beowulf have liked it.) 

My particular quarrel is with those 
reviewers, who tend to be fuzzy 
('philosophical,' 'profound') where 
the author is clear; more misrepresen-
tation of the medieval. The lecturing 
pedant in me rises. And so, believing 
that a good word for Grendel is a good 
word for Beowulf (and that a good 
word for Beowulf is good for business), 
I present the following nifty brief 
guide to Grendel. ( Feor ut.) 

To begin with, the plot is mainly 
a continued allusion to Beowulf- at 
least, to that part of it in which Gren-
del is the leading monster villain. Al-
most everyone has read a translation 
of the poem at some time (I hope) -
the original Old English being re-
served for the dedicated - and by not 
rewriting the story, Gardner does not 
disturb us (especially me). King 
Hrothgar of Denmark builds his king-
dom and his mead hall, Heorot or 
Hart; our old friends Wealtheow, Un-
ferth , Hrothulf, etc., live there. Anger-
ed by the poet's (Shaper's) songs, 
Grendel comes in at night and kills 
and devours the Danish warriors. 

Beowulf arrives from southern Sweden 
with his small band of followers, of-
fers to aid Hrothgar against Grendel, 
defeats the jealous Unferth in a verbal 
combat, and finally defeats Grendel 
physically by catching him by surprise, 
hand-wrestling with him, and tearing 
off his arm. Gardner is a good mediev-
alist: he doesn't alter his 'matter.' 

But he does embroider it a bit. 
First, Grendel does all the talking. (He 
only chuckles a little in the poem. But 
he is vaguely human, descended from 
Cain just as all the humans proper are 
descended from Abel's brother Seth; 
so Gardner is well within his rights.) 
Then, Grendel tells about numerous 
incidents that didn't get into the 'of-
ficial' poem, the most important being 
his visit to the dragon (whom Beo-
wulf is to fight after he kills Grendel 


**Grendel Review**
**Author: Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
and Grendel's mother). Finally, Gard-
ner makes Grendel a sensitive, suffer-
ing, self-conscious being, capable of 
expressing himself playfully, poeti-
cally: Portnoy in the sixth century, 
or Frankenstein's Creature in a pre-
vious incarnation. Here I join the re-
viewers. Obviously this playful poet-
ic!' business was fun for the author. Fun, 
fun, fun. Author, author, author. But 
where did the narra.ting character go? 
What do you read, my lord? ('Gren-
del, has it occurred to you my dear 
that you are crazy?' I Gardner, has it 
occurred to you my dear that you 
are too damn clever?) It could be 
argued that much Old English poetry 
is no less consciously poetic than much 
of this novel, that Gardner is simply 
imitating his 'auctoritee' (a good 
medieval trait). Nonetheless ... 

The book centers on Grendel's' 
immediate problems (and he has 
plenty of them) with all the o ther 
characters. They arise from a central 
complex of causes; Grendel is the e-
ternal adolescent, alienated, s·uffering, 
longing. He states his 'philosophy' in 
chapter two: 
:tunderstood that this world was 
nothing: a mechanical chaos of casual, 
brute enmity on which we stupidly -
• 
impose our hopes and fears. I under-
stood that, finally and absolutely, I 
alone exist. All the rest, I saw. is mere-
ly what pushes me, or what I push 
against, blindly -as blindly as all that 
is not myself pushes back. I create the 
whole universe, blink by blink. -An 
ugly god pitifully dying in a tree! 

He spends most of the rest of the 
novel informing us how and why he 
has developed this view. which he 
never chan('.!S but merely elaborates 
parts of: Thus, just before he dies, 
Grendel blames his defeat on his acci-
dentally having slipped on blood when 
he attempted to kick Beowulf away: 
"It was an accident," I bellow back. 
I will cling to what is true. " Blind, 
mindless, mechanical. Mere logic of 
chance." 

And his dying words to the 'evil, in-
credibly stupid' animals who stand 
around watching him die are, typically 
"Poor Grendel's had an accident.. .. 
So may you all. " 

Gardner redeems this potentially 
leaden viewpoint by Grendel's mer-
curial shifts in tone. Whenever he be-
comes too serious, Grendel always 
deflates himself, in a manner 
reminiscent of Byron. (Another game 
-.Byron wrote Cain and identified 
with the hero: Grendel, being of the 
race of Cain, is often Don Juanishly 
Byronic.).As Byron says, 'if a writer 
should be quite consistent./How could 
he possibly show things existent?' 

,Inconsistent Grendel is very much 
concerned with things existent, and 
he is very much afraid of succumbing 
to words that presume to change the 
real world but that operate only in 
the speaker's or listener's imaginatio_n: 
I couldn't go on, too conscious all at 
once of my whimpering, my eternal 
posturing, always t ransforming the 
world with words - changing nothing. 

But he also wants the fictions, the 
wordish lies, and he finally accepts 
men's greatest fiction, the story of 
Cain and Abel, as the basis for his 
identity. (Like all true adolescents, 
Grendel is suffering from an 'identity 
crisis.') Whereas before Grendel had 
tried to make friends with man occa-
sionally, he now becomes 'the out-
cast, cursed by the rules of [man's] 
hideous fable.' He becomes the 
Destroyer. 

Grendel is made aware of this 
imaginative power in words only after 
he hears theppoems of the Shaper, the 
blind old poet. (Grendel is always 
spying on the humans, of course.) 
Poetry brings to Grendel his first epi-
phany, his first awareness of something 
other than either caves or mead-halls, 
his first vision of what man can be. 

To resolve the confusion this 
knowledge causes he seeks out the 
dragon, who turns out to be (for me) 
the book's most amusing character. 
The dragon, like God, sees all time and 
space; he gives Grendel lectures on 
Free Will and intercession (parodying 
Boethius), on the folly of human rea-
son,.on Time and Space. He draws two 
conclusions: 

"Things come and go," he said. 
"That's the gist of it. In a billion 
billion billion years, everything will 
have come and gone several times, 
in various forms. Even I will be 
gone. A certain man will absurdly 
ki ll me. A terrible pity - loss of a 
remarkable form of life. Conserva-
tionists will howl." He chuckled 
"Meaningless, however." 

2 'Know thyself.' that's my dictum. 
Know pow much you've got, and 
beware of strangers!" 

Dragons by nature collect precious 
things and lie on them and are ex -
tremely suspicious; thus number two.) 
The only advice he gives Grendel is 
that he should accept his fabled 
identity: 

• You improve [men] , my boy!. .. 
You make them think and scheme. 
You drive them to poetry, science, 
religion, all that makes them what 
they are for as long as they last. You 
are, so to speak, the brute existent 
by which they learn to define them· 
selves." 

He also gives Grendel an invulnerable 
hide, which is far more practical since 


**New Haven's Primary**
**Author: Dan Mcintyre**
**Page number(s): 15**

continued from page 2 
franchising the dispossessed - all this 
was cast aside. 

The game plan to secure victory 
was carefully worked out. In the first 
phase, the reformers built an organiza-
tion. A registration drive was organized 
this summer in which carloads of 
blacks were taken down to the HaJI 
of Records where they enrolled as 
Democrats. Hundreds of youths got 
45 rpm records for registering as Dem-
ocrats. The reform machine's boss, Lee 
Wallace, campaigned for Joe Duffey and 
and Joe Lieberman, gaining new names 
for his card ftles and exchanging Hank 
Parker's endorsement for pledges of 
future support. 

Phase two was to change Parker's 
image - actually to bring it closer to 
reality. No longer was he to be the 
angry black, yearning for the libera-
tion of his people. Instead, his years 
as a gym teacher (educator, in the lit-
erature) as an executive of the tele-
phone company, as the owner of a day 
care center in Woodbridge, and his 
Boy Scout activism were stressed. 
Parker's media campaign was designed 
to sell him as an efficient manager for 
the city of New Haven, one who would 
make no bold changes, but who 
would make the city run more 
smoothly. He was to be the mayor of 
all the oeoole. 

Still, his liberal supporters must 
have flinched when he issued a state-
ment showering praise on Ben Delicto, 
the city's hack police chief who, in 
two months this summer, presided 
over the busting of heads at Yale grad-
uation and· at a rock concert at the 
bowl, where his men arrested youths 
on the charge of possession of cocaine 
(it turned out to be quinine). 

But after all, the object this time 
was to win. Nothing else mattered. 

Imagine the great reformers' surprise 
when having sold themselves - that 
is, having gotten more ttian the 6,000 
votes they thought would be sufficient 
to win - they found that Arthur Bar-
bieri, the town Democratic chairman 
and a Yale dropout, had changed the 
rules without telling them and gotten 
9,000 votes for Bart Guida. 

Nor could moral victory be claimed. 
That belonged to Vincent Sirabella, 
who actually did promise a new kind 
of leadership, a coalition of working 
people of all races and a government 
that was concerned about people. Sir-
abella spoke up on issues that his op-
ponents would not touch. He spoke 
out against the fare increase by United 
IIJuminating and proposed that the 
city take over the company as a mun-
icipal utility. He proposed a graduated 
state income ta..< to protect the city's 
working class. But without an organ-
ization and without money, SirabeUa 
lost - and badly. 

So Arthur Barbieri will have anoth-
er go at it. New Haven will be able to 
test whether he can take a man off the 
street and make him mayor a second 
time. The opponent again will be Paul 
Capra, who hopes the $10,000 he's 
invested in billboards, and in the 
speech lessons he's taken to improve 
his platform appearance will make the 
necessary difference. In any event, the 
primary showed that the machine ain't 
dead yet. 


YALE~ 
STUDENT 
LI\UNDI\Y 
... so what makes you think you're qualified to work 
for our scatter service? 
Lowest Prices 
Highest Quality 
1 S/The New Journal/October 10, 1971 

2-Day Dry Cleaning Service 
3-Day Laundry Service 
Free Collection and Delivery 
Call 436-0610 or 562-1209 any Monday or Tuesday 
for free collection of your laundry and/or dry 
cleaning. All items are delivered to your room 
Thursday and Friday. 


**Title: LONG WHARF**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
LONG WHARF 
You Can't Take It With You 
The Moss Hart- George S. Kaufman exuberant comedy favorite, 
direct from its acclaimed engagement at the Edinburgh Inter· 
national Festival in Scotland. TERESA WRIGHT is featured as 
Penny Sycamore, matriarch of one of theatre's most rambunct· 
ious and lovable families, who "do their own thing" 1930's-style. 
Directed by Arvin Brown. 
Oct. 22 - Nov. 13 

The Contractor 
The American Premiere of a new play by David Storey, author 
of last season's New York hit, HOME. A poetic play about the 
nature of skilled work, the meaning of community in our society, 
and the effect of its loss, all set in the rowdy jocularity of a crew 
of tent-raising roustabouts. 
Nov. 19- Dec. 11 

A Streetcar Named Desire 
The Pulitzer Prize-winning play by one of the twentieth century's 
most powerful playwrights, Tennessee Williams. An emotionally· 
devastating drama of the confrontation between the fantasy-rapt 
Blanche DuBois and her animalistic brother-in-law Stanley Kowal-
ski. A stunning work, considered Williams' greatest. 
Dec. 17 - Jan. 15** 

Hamlet 
William Shakespeare's towering classic of festering guilt and 
bloody vengeance. Noted stage and screen actor STACY KEACH, 
an LWT alumnus, will return to play the title role, making this 
production one of the major events of the American theatre 
season. Directed by Arvin Brown. 
Jan. 21 - Feb.12 

The Way of the World 
William Congreve's delicious romp is considered the high-water 
mark of Restoration comedy. The style is dazzling and the wit 
brilliant in this whirl of gallants, wicked wives, and worldly 
wooing. Watch for press announcements of Special Guest Artists! 
Feb. 18- Mar. 11 

Troika: An Evening of Russian Comedy 
The American premiere of Turgenev's THE COUNTRY WOMAN, 
plus Chekhov's THE WEDDING and SWAN SONG, in new 
adaptations by MORRIS CARNOVSKY. Mr. Carnovsky, whose 
appearance last season in YEGOR BULICHOV is a happy 
memory for LWT audiences, will direct two of the delightful 
short plays and appear in the third, to be directed by Arvin 
Brown. 
Mar. 17 - Apr. 8 

The Iceman Cometh 
After national acclaim for his New York revival of Eugene O'Neill's 
LONG DAY'S JOURN EY INTO NIGHT with Robert Ryan, 
Geraldine Fitzgerald, and Stacy Keach, director Arvin Brown 
once again works his magic touch with America's greatest play· 
wright. A character actor's dream, this masterful O'Neill drama 
is filled w ith colorful, touching, down-and-out figures. 
Apr. 14 -
May 6 

A New Play 
The World Premiere of a hard-hitting new play by William Mor· 
rison, dealing with the tragic last day in the life of a world· 
renowned author. Another world premiere coup for Long Wharf 
Theatre, in the tradition of last season's smash SOLITAIRE, 
DOUBLE SOLITAIRE, soon to open with the LWT company on 
Broadway! 
May 12 - June 3 

To SubM:ribe: Write or call Long Wharf Theatre 
222 Sargent Drive 
New Haven, Connecticut 06511 
787-4282 

