Publication date: February 2005
Volume: 37
Issue number: 4

**MASTHEAD**
- EDITOR-IN-CHIEF: Fiora Lichtman
- MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Laskow
- PUBLISHER: Michael Addison
- DESIGNER: Miao Wang
- BUSINESS MANAGER: Brinn Myada
- PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR: Eli Fairbank
- PRODUCTION MANAGER: Adrianne Quinlan
- RESEARCH DIRECTOR: Romy Drutman
- OVERSEAS CORRESPONDENT: Paige Austin
- CIRCULATION & SUBSCRIPTIONS: Lance Rick, David Zax
- WEB EDITOR: Concha Mendoza
- STAFF: Anna Altman, Jonny Dach, Helen Eckinger, Mina Kimes, Emily Kopley, Beatrice Liu, Casey Miner, Elizabeth St. Victor, Julia Wallace, Ivy Wang
- MAGAZINE AND DESIGN DIRECTION: Emily Bazelon, Joshua Civin, Peter B. Cooper, Tom Grigg, Brooks Kelley, Daniel Kumin-Phelan, Jennifer Pitts, Henry Schwab, Elizabeth Sledge, David Slifka, Fred Strebeigh, Thomas Strong, John Swansburg
- ADVISORS: Richard Blow, Jay Carney, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- FRIENDS: Sue Bollou, Anson M. Beard, Jr., Blair Bennett, Edward B. Bennett, Jr., Edward B. Bennett III, Paul S. Bennett, Richard Blow, Martha Brau, Jay Carney, Daphne Chu, Josh Civin, Jonathan M. Clark, Constance Clement, Elisha Cooper, Peter B. Cooper, Andy Conn, Mali Daston, Albert J. Fox, Mrs. H. Fox, David Freeman, Geoffrey Fried, Sherwin Goldman, David Greenberg, Tom Grigg, Stephen Hellman, Jane Kamensky, Brooks Kelley, Roger Greenwood, Levi E. Lehrman, Jim Lowe, E. Noble Lowe, Martha E. Neill, Peter H. Neill, Howard H. Newman, Sean O’Brien, Julie Peters, Lewis and Joan Platt, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, Fairfax C. Randall, Sean Rohrer, Arleen and Arthur Sager, Richard Shindell, W. Hampton Sides, Lisa Silverman, William Sledge, Adina Proposco and David Sukman, Thomas Strong, Elizabeth Tatlock, Angela Stent Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
FEATURES
Chemical Reaction - Libby Irwin
The Greenhouse - Flora Lichtman
A Divine Intervention - Zach Jones
STANDARDS
Points of Departure
The Critical Angle: Filed Away - Adriane Quinlan
Essay: An Ordinary Lover - Mina Kimes
Endnote: Thus Spake Zarathustra? - Jamie Martin


**Title: Chemical Reaction**
**Author: Libby Irwin**
**Page number(s): 12**

Residents discover toxins under a neighborhood school and fight back.


**Title: The Greenhouse**
**Author: Flora Lichtman**
**Page number(s): 20**

Architects around the world are clamoring to build Yale a piece of Paradise.


**Title: A Divine Intervention**
**Author: Zach Jones**
**Page number(s): 28**

Two Baptist Reverends seek to reconnect a congregation with its community.


**Title: Points of Departure**
**Author:  Not Listed**
**Page number(s): 4**


**Title: The Critical Angle: Filed Away**
**Author: Adriane Quinlan**
**Page number(s): 33**


**Title: Essay: An Ordinary Lover**
**Author: Mina Kimes**
**Page number(s): 36**


**Title: Endnote: Thus Spake Zarathustra?**
**Author: Jamie Martin**
**Page number(s): 38**


**Title: Firing Squad**
**Author: I!! Wang**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Firing Squad 
"I COULDN'T PULL THE TRIGGER OF THE EMP'I1F.ST 
gun in the world, not if someone were looking 
down the barrel. One instinctively doesn't do 
it--<>ne can't," says the young Ursula in D.H. 
Lawrence's novel, Women in Love. The passage 
struck me when I read it. I had never touched 
a gun, but I'd always wondered what it would 
be like. Was Ursula right? Are some people 
simply instinctively unable to fire even an 
empty gun at another person? 

One snowy Thursday night, I went to a 
Yale Pistol Club practice at 'The Armory," a 
gray warehouse-like building that overlooks the 
athletic fields. The Armory was built in 1916 
as a US cavalry training center, and it seems 
very much a relic of an earlier time. Among 
old exposed piping and olive green army-issue 
lockers and tables, the Pistol Club meets most 
Tuesday and Thursday nights. 

Tonight, only three people have come to 
practice. One of them is Ricky Kamp, who 
got his Ph.D. from the School of Forestry and 
Environmental Studies in the early nineties. 
Ricky went to his first practice in 1989, and 
has been managing the club for more than 
a decade. When he first started shooting 
competitively, the club had a much larger 
membership. People came out as much to 
socialize as to shoot. These days, attendance is 
sporadic. Each new semester brings a handful 
of wide-eyed newcomers, people like me who 
want to see what it's like to shoot a gun. But 
they after they've satisfied their curiosity, they 
usually don't come back. 

Ricky talks me through the basics of how 
to load the pistol, how to aim it and how to 
stand. I'm surprised to learn that he holds 
the pistol with one hand, not two. I'm also 
surprised at how demanding it is to shoot. "You 
have error in your trigger release, error in your 
hand wobbling around, error in your elbow 
wobbling around, your shoulder, your feet, just 
on and on and on." Ricky tells me. He adds 
that my blood pressure, my blood sugar and 
how tired I am can have an enormous effect 
on how you shoot. Ricky tries to get a good 
night's rest, eat a high-protein meal and 
get to the range a few hours before 
he even picks up a gun. Both 
he and Barbara, a School of 
Nursing graduate who's been 
a member as long as Ricky, say 
they come to practice to relieve 
stress. But 
this seems 
strange: 
the 
process 
of 
shooting 
seems 
to 
require a degree of 
meticulousness 
that 
would make it impossible 
to release tension. They tell me 
it doesn't work that way. Shooting 
forces them to become calm and 
focused. "You should not be distracted 
by aggravating calls from the office. You 
shouldn't have things bothering you," says 
Ricky. A trip to the shooting range is less like 
a round on a punching bag and more like a 
form of meditation. 

Ricky blames the media's portrayal of 
firearms for the waning interest in the club. 
He and Barbara believe that none of the 
people with whom they shoot targets could 
ever shoot a person. "The criminal doesn't 
do it the way we do it," Barbara says. "We do 
it the right way. We buy [the gun] the right 
way, with a permit. And we handle it right." 
Ricky assures me, 'The people I know who 
are into shooting are the last people who 
would ever actually shoot anyone." 

For all their reassurances, I can't help 
thinking of the statistics so often advertised 
by gun control advocates; numbers showing 
that a gun kept 
in the home 
is22rimes 
more 
likely 
to be 
used 
in an 
unintentional 
shooting, 
criminal assault, 
homicide 
or 
attempted suicide 
than it is to be used 
in self defense. I 
am also reminded 
of the argument 
that anybody can 
be carried away by 
a state of mind: 
panic, extreme anger 
or extreme despair. 
These 
numbers 
suggest that when a 
gun is near, we can 
never be completely sure 
that we won't be compelled by forces within us 
but beyond our control, to pick it up and fire. 

Though they both have carrying permits, 
Ricky and Barbara keep their'pistols at the 
shooting range. They spare no caution when 
storing and handling their guns. The magazine, 
which holds the bullets, and the gun are kept 
separately in a locked case, which is stored in a 
large black safe, which is locked in a backroom 
off the main shooting range, nested away 
as safely as the innermost cloU of a Russian 
matryoshka .. 

Before he hands me the pistol, a .22 
caliber semiautomatic handgun, he checks 
to make sure the magazine is removed and 
the chamber is empty. Then he checks again. 
Then he shows me how to check for myself. 
There is absolutely no chance the gun contains 
a bullet. Nevertheless, when I take the gun 
from Ricky's hand, the other two members 
shift back slightly. 

Standing in my booth wearing goggles 
and ear protectors, I feel removed from reality. 
I stare through the sights to the bulls-eye hung 
up fifty feet away, and I'm astonished at how 
hard it is to keep my aim steady. Ricky tells 
me I should put my left hand in my pocket 
to anchor my body, which will give me more 
accuracy. He also tells me I shouldn't even 
think of the phrase "pulling the trigger," 
because simply imagining an action like pulling 
throws off the gun's equilibrium. Instead, he 
tells me to think of very gradually applying 
more and more pressure to the trigger. If I'm 
doing it right, I shouldn't even know when the 
pistol will actually fire. The idea goes against 
my most emblazoned notion of shooting a 
gun. Instead of being at my most powerful, 
when I pull the trigger, or rather when the gun 
is fired, I am at my most passive. 

I get into position and try to clear my 
mind. I stand still, applying gradual pressure 
to the trigger with my index finger, and I wait. 
And then the bullet is fired. Immediately, a 
small black hole appears in the paper target, 
just beyond the outermost ring. Because the 
gun is small, the kickback isn't the powerful jolt 
I expected. It felt as if the gun was attached to 
a taut string, and the string was suddenly cut; 
or as if the gun was, for the briefest moment, 
freed from gravity. My next few shots hit closer 
to the bulls-eye. And then I start shooting 
wide. To remedy this, Ricky hangs up a plain 
piece of paper and tells me not to worry about 
trying to hit a target. It works-the blank 
white paper clears my mind. It seems, as they 
say, a little Zen. 

After I'm done, Ricky lets me walk over to 
the back wall of the range, first checking and 
double-checking that every gun is unloaded 
and everyone is out of their stalls. The shells at 
the front of the range crunch like empty husks 
under our shoes. The targets are hung up in


--- Page 5 ---

February 2005 
front of a canvas curtain. Behind the curtain 
a thick steel backstop hangs at a forty-five 
degree angle. Traveling at about a thousand 
feet per second, the bullets nearly liquefy when 
they hit the backstop. Underneath, instead of 
spent cartridges, there are deep drifts of what 
looks like silver sawdust--all that remains of 
the lead bullets. Seeing this, I remember just 
how powerful a gun actually is. 

According to Ricky, none of the members 
use the safeties on their guns when they 
practice. It helps them avoid what he calls 
a dangerous gray area. "You're either ready 
to shoot, or you're not shooting. There's no 
middle ground." 

I wonder for how many 
other places this is true. 
Outside of the 
painstaking precautions and the quiet isolation 
of the Pistol Club, can the gray area really be 
eliminated? 

At the end of the night, we all dismantle 
our pistols. 
We slide out the magazines, 
remove the bullets, check the chambers and 
shut the guns inside their cases. Ricky closes 
the iron safe and the backroom door, and we 
file out into the snow while Ricky locks the 
shooting range behind us. 
-I!! Wang


**Title: Wisecrack**
**Author: Emily Ripley**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

Wisecrack 
IN JOSEPH C. 
PAULDING's 19"' 
century 
humorous tale, "Jonathan Visits the Celestial 
Empire," the eponymous Yankee sails around 
the world selling ginseng, accompanied by 
his co-captain, a Newfoundland dog. Our 
hero boasts an adventurous entrepreneurial 
spirit. One might say the same of Jonathan's 
contemporary publicist, Professor David E. 
E. Sloane, who has written about Paulding 
and revived his tale from wasting away on 
dusty bookshelves. Dr. Sloane is a professor 
of English and Applied Linguistics at the 
University of New Haven (UNH), where he 
teaches primarily online classes, disseminating 
knowledge about 19m century American 
humor writing, Mark Twain, Thomas Edison, 
adverbial clauses and fashionable hats. 

Dr. Sloane is tall and formally-dressed, 
but his mustached, mischievous grin removes 
any air of pretense. He chats easily and affably, 
blending Twain jokes and his own one-liners 
naturally into conversation. His humor has 
served him well in his many public roles, 
which have included editing Country Dance 
and Song, directing the American Humor 
Studies Association and presiding over the Eli 
Whitney Museum and the Mark Twain Circle. 

Since graduating from high school, Dr. Sloane 
has secured many prestigious degrees. All the 
while he acquired a love of the banjo, rescued 
many 19th century humorists from obscurity 
and developed a strong social conscience. 

Dr. Sloane's particular interest in Mark 
Twain burgeoned in high school, when he 
wrote a book report on Innocents Abroad for 
which he received a "C" for content and an 
"F" for grammar/writing. No longer ignorant 
of effective writing technique, Dr. Sloane has 
since penned seven scholarly books on Mark 
Twain and American humor. He explains 
that Twain's humor is rooted in a critique of 
social problems that persist today, particularly 
racism. As Dr. Sloane points out, "We're living 
out Huck Finn now in New Haven." 

The professor's knowledge about the 
elements of style extends beyond strong 
writing skills: Dr. Sloane almost always sports 
a Bogle-esque fedora. Occasional breaks from 
the fedora come in online clips of the professor 
"lecturing" on the UNH classes server. Each 
clip finds the distinguished scholar wearing a 
different hat and cradling his beloved banjo, 
on which he strums a lecture-sing-along. In 
one clip, he sings prepositions to the tune 
of "Yankee Doodle," while another clip 
concludes with the straight-faced professor 
pausing, then offering the non-sequitor, "So 
now the future of American youth belongs 
to you." In a third clip, the professor dons a 
severely frayed sombrero as he discourses on 
the rules of grammar over an Irish jig jangling 
in the background. And in yet another clip, Dr. 
Sloane smiles out from under a plastic "New 
Year's Eve" top hat and belts out the last few 
bars of "Rudolph the Red Nosed Reindeer" 


--- Page 6 ---

to demonstrate a particular 
pronunciation of the word 
"history." 

short 
films complement posted 
written lectures and student 
discussion boards to provide 
a convenient alternative 
to classroom learning. 
Like 
ginseng-
salesman Jonathan, 
Dr. Sloane displays 
his 
enterprising 
nature in his efforts 
to procure unusual, 
spicy goods: rare 
books and humor 
magazines. 
shrewd 
From 
online 
and 
real 
market 
exploration, 
collector has amassed 
complete 
runs of 
American 
humor 
magazines from the 
mid-19th to mid-20th 
century, 
with 
names 
such 
as 
"Hot 
Dog," 
"Ballyhoo" and "Sagebrush 
Philosophy." As evidence 
of the Yankee 
ingenuity 
and thriftiness that he shares 
with his favorite writers 
their subjects, Dr. Sloane salvaged a 
"derelict barbershop next to a biker bar" 
and turned it into his office. In addition, he 
hopes to someday live his dream of opening 
an antique shop, and in so doing earn more 
than accolades and prestige for his love and 
knowledge of old Americana. 

And there is the possible commercial 
success of Dr. Sloane's upcoming book on 
Edison's daughter. His subject, Madeleine 
Sloane, was in fact Dr. Sloane's paternal 
grandmother (the second "E" of Sloane's 
four initials stands for "Edison"). From his 
ancestors, the scholar inherited not only the 
inventive impulse, but also hundreds of love 
letters he has been preserving in water-stained 
cardboard boxes. This inheritance cannot 
compensate for Edison's disinheritance of his 
own daughter when she married a Catholic 
against her father's wishes, but perhaps Dr. 
Sloane's forthcoming book, which will draw 
heavily from her love letters, will rescue 
Madeleine from anonymity. 

Dr. Sloane has his own sidekick-not 
a Newfoundland dog but a seven-month-
old poodle named Challah. Dr. Sloane's four 
children were contracted as Challah's original 
caretakers but their father has assumed care 
of the poodle with tempered equanimity. 
Dr. Sloane grumbles in jest, "The poodle 
doesn't know he's walking in front of a full 
professor." 

Like Mark Twain, Dr. Sloane 
is deeply devoted to family (past 
present), 
literature and humor. Dr. 
Sloane is a modern-day 
Connecticut Yankee courting 
financial fortune and exercising 
pedagogical, 
scholarly, 
fatherly influence. Hot 
dog! 
- Emily Ripley


**Title: Outsider's Insider**
**Author:  [No Author Listed]**
**Page number(s): 6**

Outsider's 
Insider 
MINUTES FROM NEW HAVEN, BEVERLY KAYE 
has set up her own new haven-for the most 
marginalized and polemicized artwork being 
produced. Her slightly unkempt front yard 
bears little resemblance to the picturesque 
pruned lawns of her Woodbridge neighbors. A 
burnished metal sculpture of tendrils twisting 
into a knot momentarily diverts the attention 
of passing drivers. At the bottom of the 
driveway, sits another metal sculpture. It is of 
a folksy Native American, welcoming visitors, 
pulling them away from suburban Connecticut 
and into the world of "Outsider Art." 

As Kaye admits, attempting to define 
the genre is to venture onto shaky ground. 
Outsider Art includes self-taught, folk and 
visionary art. In general, though, work deemed 
Outsider Art shares certain characteristics. It is 
free from overt social and cultural influences, 
artistic or otherwise; it is often created by 
self-taught individuals living on the fringe of 
society; it possesses an intensity of expression; 
and most importantly, it is driven by a desire to 
create rather than sell. 

This last stipulation presents a conundrum 
for Kaye, who sells Outsider Art without 
the blessing of outsider artists. As the genre has 
emerged, dealers and agents have adopted 
various tactics to explain this apparent paradox. 
When Scottie Wilson, an acclaimed outsider 
artist of the mid-20th century, surprised critics 
by attending an opening of his work at a New 
York art gallery, his agent felt compelled to 
issue this disclaimer: "Yes, Scottie Wilson 
was at the opening. But he wasn't there for 
the art; he was there for the whiskey." Kaye, 
however, takes a different approach. "It's 
almost impossible to be truly isolated in this 
century," she says. "Most of my artists are very 
aware that their work is being sold, but would 
be doing it even if that wasn't the case." 

Unlike many dealers who operate out 
of their homes, Kaye's living space is her art 
space. A showroom, peppered with an array 
of paintings and sculptures, blends seamlessly 
into the kitchen, which is adorned with several 
pieces by the artists Kaye represents. The 
dining room table doubles as a display area. 
Unframed drawings emerge from underneath 
an upstairs bed. "Most private dealers work 
out of their homes," Kaye says. "If people 
see the art they want to buy in a home setting, 
buying art seems more doable." 

In addition to aesthetic concerns, Kaye 
cites financial motivations for using her home 
as her gallery. "It is very much tied into the 
stock market," she says. "It's not something 
anyone needs--it's something people want." 
By relieving herself from the burden of rent 
of a commercial showroom, Kaye has a little 
immunity from the financial fluctuations that 
plague many gallery owners. 

Outsider artists are linked to each other 
mainly by the motivations driving their work. 
Although their art contains a shared intensity, 
outsider artists use a variety of techniques and 
mediums. "Many of these artists strive to create 
alternative universes," Kaye says. For outsider 
artist Gilles Manero, vintage records bought 
at a flea market become canvases upon which 
he paints vaguely demonic fairy tales. Anthony 
Guyther appalled art collectors by destroying 
valuable 18th and 19th century engravings and 
reassembling them into homoerotic collages. 
Unfortunately for Guyther, the collages 
became so popular that Bergdorf Goodman 
began using them in its window displays. He 
glues together seashells and seaweed from 
the New England coastline; and sells them in 
gift shops. On the wall in Kaye's dining room, 
a painting by Maurice Hansen Jr. reveals a 
hierarchy ranking everyone from God-as a



**Outsider Art**
**Author: Helen Edinger**
**Page number(s): 8**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Kaye's gallery, tucked away in a suburban Connecticut home, showcases the works of Outsider artists—individuals who create art outside the mainstream art world.  Many of these artists are also mental patients, though this is not a prerequisite for inclusion.  The gallery features a diverse range of artwork, including the vibrant, eclectic paintings of Hansen, who adorned his canvas with everything from himself as a man and a woman to Medusa, Winken, Blinken, Nod, and the Whore of Babylon.  Another notable artist is Clyde Angel, a wanderer who crafts metal sculptures from landfill scraps, his story blending fact and fiction.  Kaye emphasizes the focus on the art itself, rather than the artists' backgrounds or mental states.  Her gallery, a sanctuary in the quiet suburbs, reflects the outsider nature of the art it displays, a far cry from the bustling galleries of SoHo.


**Baby Geniuses**
**Author: Beatrice Liu**
**Page number(s): 9**

The Yale-New Haven and Area Schools program allows exceptional high school students to take college courses at Yale for credit.  Savana, a high school senior, thrived in a Yale documentary film class, surprising her classmates with her high school status.  Other students, like Eric and Chris, also found the experience rewarding, challenging yet ultimately enriching.  The program fostered a more realistic view of Yale students, dispelling the "genius" myth and positively influencing their college application decisions.  However, even these high-achieving students faced the challenges of underclassmen status, highlighting the competitiveness of higher education.


**Casablanca**
**Author: Elizabeth St. Victor**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
the Arabian-Nighcs-enthusiast tucked between 
Hull's art supplies and Thai Pan Asian, but 
there it is: one of "belly dancing costumes and 
accessories" -Casablanca. 

Sixteen years of collecting merchandise 
has led to a store full of exotic knick-knacks 
including hand-woven camel saddle bags, 
head wraps and a full-body costume from 
Gandia. In auctions and open-air markets the 
merchandise has been gathered from the four 
comers of the world and then jammed into 
this little store on Chapel stteet. 

Surprisingly, in this cultural concoction 
ordinary jeans hang alongside silky pantaloons. 
The jeans are not the only artifacts of 
American life at Casablanca: NPR's All Thi11gs 
Con.tidtrtd fuses with the incense. The scattered 
evidence of American culture in this shop, 
from blue jeans to Bogart, lends the place an 
air of parody. The overseer of this unusual 
collection, the maharaja himself, stands behind 
a counter plastered with pictures of Morocco, 
smoking a cigarette, wearing a black beret and 
thin silver glasses, staring shrewdly at passers 
by and customers alike. 

Twenty-four years ago, Alouah Lachem 
emigrated to the States from Morocco with 
his pregnant wife in order to take care of his 
stepfather. The responsibilities of his store 
and his daughter made returning to Morocco 
impossible. Though Lachem left behind Uriga, 
his birthplace in the Atlas Mountains, he still 
owns "an ancient house," an heirloom built by 
his great grandfather. "The walls arc this big," 
he gestures emphatically with his hands. When 
he dies, he says, his daughter will inherit the 
house, though it is unclear what an ,American 
who has never lived in Morocco will do with 
such a place. 

According to Lachem, his life in the Atlas 
Mountains was a mix of blissful and intellectual 
pursuits. Fluent in five languages, Lachem 
used his linguistic expertise to translate four 
film writers. He translated native languages 
to English and vice versa. He intended this 
only as a part time job, a means of earning 
extra cash during school, but interpreting 
was addictive: with each film, Lachem began 
to build a reputation, successively working 
with more prominent filmmakers. On the 
wall behind the counter hangs a p1cture 
of a younger Lachem standing in a desert 
surrounded by filmographers and reels of 
tapes. "That's me with the big Afro," he says. 

Exhilarated, he recalls his work with Michael 
Caine on The Man IV'ho Wo111d Be King. Hidden 
in a bohemian mecca on Chapel Street, a 'New 
Haven shop-owner has rubbed elbows with 
legendary heroes. 

This 
beret-wearing 
movie 
translator 
has also dabbled in fashion design. "John's 
on Whitney Ave used to sell my clothes," he 
says, gesturing south. "Especially during the 
'70s, they were popular." Lachcm still displays 
designer duds from his fashion show days, 
and some of his items appeared at a Coliseum 
show five years ago. 

The mysterious aura of Casablanca might 
give the impression that Lachem 
is not concerned with ordinary 
necessities. But his tailoring business 
proves the contrary: Alouah Lachem is 
a shrewd businessman. His shop may 
be a fantastical, but his sewing machine 
grinds out a profitable, realistic life. 

Lachem tailors for local stores such as J. 
Crew and Ragg's. "Have you ever bought 
something from J. Crew?" he inquires. "I 
tailor for J. Crew. If you ever got tailored 
at J. Crew, l probably did your clothes." 

Lachem IS a man of contradictions. 
Not only does his enigmatic air collide with 
his practicality, but his politics are similarly 
confusing. Ask Lachem his opinion on political 
affairs and he will claim to be "independent" 
or uninvolved. There is an uncontrollable 
excitement m his eyes when he speaks about 
Moroccan-US relations. (He even pulls out 
a laminated "Treaty of Peace & Friendship" 
between the U.S. and Morocco signed 
in 
1787.) His 24 years here have neither erased 
nor dimmed his Moroccan nationalism. Twice 
a year he travels to Morocco to acquire more 
artifacts for h1s store, but the journeys seem 
more like pilgrimages to his past than business 
trips. When asked about his roots, he replies 
ina fierce correctional tone, "I am descended 
from the Berbers, not the Arabs ... We are the 
people who kept Spain free of England." Still, 
Lachem insistS, "This is my second home," 
while in the same breath, making sure to 
identify the jeans as manufactured in France, 
not the U.S. 

This instinct to assert his identity, to avoid 
getting 
lost in mainstream America, 
epitomizes Casablanca, a queer little boutique 
whose identity is Less wrapped up in a successful 
business model than a collection of odds and 
ends. Lachem's most practical item on sale is 
a set of purses from Ghana with peace signs 
woven on them, sold at a price certain to 
frighten most buyers. He refuctandy admitS 
that his business intentions are not solely for 
the almighty dollar, but to indulge his artistic 
whims. 

Hanging from the ceiling, a hairy Tanzanian 
mask with peacock feathers splayed on the 
top stares unapologetically .at onlookers. This 
jarring face reveals a world beyond America, 
far beyond commercialism and into the heart 
of the wild and magical In response to his


**Title: The Newhall Neighborhood: A Story of Environmental Injustice**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
T
HE HOUSE in the Newhall neighborhood 
of Hamden seemed perfect to Elizabeth 
Hayes; it had been on the market for 
months, waiting patiently for Hayes until she 
was ready to buy. In March 1996, soon after 
the sale went through, she began to plan for 
extensive renovations and went downtown 
for a building permit. The Hamden building 
official discouraged her from investing in her 
new property, suggesting she wait and move 
to a different neighborhood in a few years. 
Elizabeth disregarded the advice-she thought 
she had gotten a good deal. 
Nine years after moving, Hayes has 
gone from quiet neighbor to community 
activist, and is currently leading the charge 
for environmental justice in the Newhall 
neighborhood. Her home is one of over three 
hundred built on an old toxic waste dump. 
Since she moved, high levels of lead, arsenic, 
and other hazardous materials have been 
discovered in several nearby backyards. This 
environmental disgrace prompted Hayes to 
take action. She has been one of the most 
outspoken members of the neighborhood, 
demanding accountability from the town, 
state, and corporations responsible for the 
dumping. Stationed in the back room of 
the Newhall Coalition office on a freezing 
December afternoon, surrounded by maps 
·of the neighborhood, newspaper clippings, 
and pamphlets outlining 
the state and 
national standards for various toxins, Hayes 
recounts the evolution of the environmental 
catastrophe. 


I
N 1999, pending a possible expansion, 
surveyors began testing ground around 
the Hamden Middle School in the Newhall 
neighborhood. The initial assessment revealed 
that the school stood on top of a marsh, which 
had been filled in the 19 50s. 
Consequent 
testing revealed toxic chemicals in the athletic 
fields. Still, a study conducted by a team of 
local professors found no immediate health 
risk to the teachers or kids. The Connecticut 
Department of Environmental Protection 
(DEP) reached similar results. 
But, in 
December 2000, DEP surveyors still removed 
four inches of topsoil from the contaminated 
areas and the town added a layer of clean fill. 
The findings of the initial investigation 
alarmed 
teachers, parents 
and 
Newhall 
homeowners and prompted a series of town 
meetings at the middle school. While the 
official test results claimed there was no health 
threat, homeowners pointed to noteworthy 
cases of teachers who had contracted cancer 
during their long tenures. The DEP and local 
environmental experts could not guarantee that 
the landfill was not related to these sicknesses, 
compelling some teachers to leave their jobs. 
That year, Christmas vacation was prolonged 
for three weeks so that topsoil could be 
removed. This prompted parents to protest 
on both sides-some calling for immediate 
relocation of the school, others complaining 
that the risk had been blown out of proportion 
and that the students be allowed to return to 
school immediately. Classes reconvened in late 
January, and architects began drafting plans to 
expand the school. 
Joe Frasier, an employee of Hamden 
Public Schools, had been following the 
investigation of the middle school closely but 
was often to attend the meetings, so he asked 
his friend Elizabeth Hayes to attend. Childless 
and relatively new to the neighborhood, Hayes 
had only a vague interest in the school scandal, 
but decided to go and listen as Frasier had 
suggested. Without ties to the school, Hayes 
was able to hear these discussions from a 
different perspective. 
Despite 
substantial 
public controversy over the school, there was 
absolutely no mention of the surrounding 
community. These meetings prompted Hayes 
to wonder: if there was a landfill, how far did 
the contamination extend? The highest levels 
of waste had been measured in the fields on 
the outskirts of the school's property, adjacent 
to residential areas and public parks. And yet, 
no testing conducted beyond the school's 
perimeter. 
The question of Newhall's vulnerability 
led Hayes and Frasier to unearth critical 
history. 
They started asking some elderly 
residents of the neighborhood's what the 
Newhall neighborhood had looked like before 
the school and houses were built in the '50s. 
The unanimous reply was, "a dump." Mayor 
Carl Amenta explained to them that there had 
been a mosquito problem in Harnden's natural 
wetlands, prompting the area to be filled. When 
they asked what material had been used as fill, 
the mayor assured them there was nothing to 
worry about. 
With the publicity generated by the middle 
school's cleanup project and the planned 
relocation, more reports of cases cancer deaths 
of former Newhall residents came in from as 
far as, Mississippi, California and Colorado. 
Two Hamden residents, a father and son living 
in the same house on Newhall Street, had died 
of cancer within years of each other. Parents 
reported children with learning disabilities. 
Residents stopped eating the vegetables from 
their gardens and awaited information about 
potential toxins in the groundwater. But once 
again, neither the local authorities, nor the 
DEP nor the U.S. Environmental Protection 
Agency (EPA), could conclude that there was 
a correlation between the contaminants in the 
soil and the deaths. 
But Joe Frasier felt his community's 
concerns were being ignored and contacted the 
DEP to demand further testing. In April2001, 
at the state's request, the EPA conducted an 
investigation of surface soil contamination on 
three residential areas neighboring the middle 
school. Tests confirmed Frasier's suspicions: 
eight residential properties were contaminated 
with up to 4,700 parts per million (ppm) lead 
in the surface soil and high levels of polycyclic 
aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH). 
Under national standards, lead, which can 
cause brain damage and learning disabilities in 
children, is considered hazardous if there are 
greater than 400 ppm in areas where children 
play, or 1200 ppm in close proximity. PAH, a 
compound of several chemicals formed during 
the incomplete burning of coal, oil, gas, and 
garbage, sticks to particles in the soil and may 
be carcinogenic if ingested or exposed to the 
skin in great quantities. In August 2001, based 
on the high levels of lead and PAH in the 
surface soil samples from Newhall, the EPA 
initiated a "time-critical removal action" and 
called for further testing by the DEP. 
Faced with the enormous cost of 
conducting these soil tests-which require 
exttacting cores of dirt from as deep as thirty 
feet below the surface and extensive laboratory 
testing-the DEP identified four "potential 
responsible parties" for the contamination: the 
Board of Education (at one point the owner 
of the Hamden Middle School property), the 
South Central Connecticut Regional Water 
Authority (RWA), the town of Hamden (which 
operated a dump in the neighborhood during 
the 1930s and 40s), and Olin Corporation, a 
company that owns Winchester Ammunitions, 
the area's primary manufacturer of hazardous 
waste. 
As the investigation mewed forward, 
Elizabeth Hayes became a regular fixture at 
the public meetings, acting as "backup" for 
Frasier. With a degree in business, Hayes had 
known nothing about environmental justice, 
hazardous chemicals or political activism. 
She sat quietly and listened from the back of 
the room, absorbing as muCh of the mosdy 
technical discussions as she could. "People 
underestimated me," Hayes says. "They didn't 
think I have any sense because I like to extract


--- Page 15 ---

all the information, then clissect it. I want to 
look at things, understand them, read about 
them before I open my mouth. Yes, I like to be 
informed." Over time she learned the etiquette 
of activism and the vocabulary of tox.ics, so 
when Frasier asked Hayes to spend an entire 
Saturday in early 2002 at an environmental 
justice conference at Yale, she agreed. 
"That was a major turning point for me," 
Hayes recalls. Before attencling the conference, 
she had viewed the problem-from the 
perspective of her own neighborhood, only 
considering the issues in terms of how they 
affected her and her neighbors in the immecliate 
future. At Yale that day, Hayes was compelled 
by examples of other contaminated sites 
strikingly similar to Newhall and began to look 
at her community's experience in a clifferent 
light. She met professors and students who 
were interested in the Newhall problem, and 
returned home that evening with a renewed 
sense of ~ency. "I wanted to know how we 
could get the system to work for us, because 
that's what it's supposed to do." 
At Yale, Hayes met important contacts, 
including Forestry students Vic Edgerton 
and Sarah Vogel, who would later conduct a 
survey of the Newhall neighborhood. She also 
got in touch with the Toxics Action Center 
(fAC), an organization that aids New England 
neighborhood groups fighting pollution in 
their communities. The Newhall Coalition, 
formed in the early stages of the investigation 
during 2001, was now supported and advised 
by the TAC. Meanwhile, Hayes continued to 
attend seminars and research contamination 
and political activism. 
Hamden residents who didn't live in 
Newhall were still mainly concerned about 
the fate of the middle school. Controversy 
continued to rage between parents, teachers, 
school administrators and town officials 
over the 
appropriate 
response 
to 
the 
contamination. 
Close to the New Haven town line and 
located in the lowest-income neighborhood 
of Hamden, the middle school's sole building 
houses every seventh and eighth-grade student 
in town. Matriculating from eight different 
elementary schools, the educational fate of 
many were at stake. The school's planned 
expansion, which led to the initial cliscovery 
of contamination, was a response to the 
school's overpopulation. Concerned parents 
lobbied for an extensive renovation of the 
building. When test results began to come in, 
however, Hamden residents had justification 
for a complete relocation of the school and 
February 2005 
put pressure on the mayor to find a "more 
suitable" property. 
The cost of rebuilding the school at its 
current site in Newhall was roughly S3 million 
less than the cost of buying another property 
and constructing an entirely new school. But 
this didn't cliscourage many middle school 
teachers and parents who advocated relocation. 
In a March 2001 Parent-Teacher Association's 
(PTA) meeting at Hamden Middle School, 
members voted 68-16 in favor of moving 
students out of the school even if a new 
building wasn't built within three years. When 
Mayor Amento announced his decision to run 
for a second term in June 2001, he listed the 
relocation among his top priorities. 
"It was a political ploy," Hayes says 
of Amento's promise to relocate. While 
extremely popular with groups like the PTA 
and Connecticut Teacher's Union, plans for 
relocation angered other residents who felt they 
clid not have a voice in the decision. Controversy 
flared up again when Meadowbrook Golf 
Course, a 63 acre stretch of grass in the middle 
of Hamden, was decided upon as the future 
site of the middle school. In the Summer and 
Fall of 2002, two declicated activist groups 
butted heads over whether Hamden's largest 
expanses of green space should be developed. 
The two groups, The New Hamden Middle 
School at Meadowbrook Action Committee 
(M & M) and Save Open Space in Hamden, 
Inc. (SOS), waged a paper battle in front of 
Wal-Mart and Shaw's, handing out flyers to 
fellow residents. That month, letters to the 
eclitor published in The New Haven Register 
reflected disgrunded residents on both sides 
of the fence: some decried the resistance to 
overdue renovation of a school for their 
children. Others addressed the ~herent value 
of permanent, open, green space in Hamden. 
The collective eye of the Hamden public had 
shifted away from Newhall to the local golf 
course. 


A
T HAMDEN MIDDLE ScHOOL, as the 
day's first class was beginning, students 
signed in and ~eachers emerged from 
the faculty lounge with coffee mugs and 
Xerox copies. Principal Frank Pepe, an 
impressively tall man with large features and 
slicked-back hair, enters the main office to 
handle a shipment that had just arrived. Inside 
the box was a new computer, which he was 
to deliver to the home of a student battling 
cancer. Upstairs, Assistant Principal, Michael 
Novia juggled simultaneous calls on his office 
phone and his cell phone, while maintaining a 
conversation with students, and his secretary. 
In the course of a few minutes, he assigned 
Saturday detention to a boy who had thrown a 
tennis ball in class, interrogated another about 
touching a girl's purse in homeroom, and let a 
girl return to class after determining she had 
not purposefully knocked over her teacher's 
plant. He micromanages the day-to-day affairs 
of the high school as they show up constandy 
at his office door. 
Mr. Novia describes his faculty's general 
attitude toward the contamination as fcxlder 
for jokes rather than a serious concern. Since 
plans for a new school were announced two 
years ago, the initial outrage has faded. "It's a 
done deal, right? They said it was safe to keep 
the school here for as long as it takes to build a 
new one, which they say will open in September 
2006," he says, shrugging his shoulders. At the 
mention of the Newhall Coalition's efforts to 
have a voice in the DEP's remediation project 
currently underway in the neighborhood 
and ask him if there are any teachers that he 
knows of who are involved in these efforts. 
Mr. Novia looks puzzled. "Newhall Coalition? 
I don't know anything about that." 
In his ninth year at Hamden Middle 
School, Principal Frank Pepe is eager to move 
to the new location. "It's a great thing for 
Hamden," he says. 'We need a new school 
and I am amazed that there was so much 
opposition to the construction in the first 
place. Why wouldn't people want to support 
a new school?" He goes onto to say that 
the contamination is an extremely sensitive 
topic which he preferred not to bring up 
unless .absolutely necessary. "There were 
sicknesses--deaths even-among the faculty. 
Some teachers chose to retire because of this. 
Now that we know there is no threat, I don't 
like to talk about it." 


E
UZABETH HAYES'S attitude is the opposite 
of Pepe's: "I want everyone to be informed! 
Information is freedom! How can you 
fight someone if they have all the information 
and you are ignorant?" In the two-and-a-half 
years since she attended the environmental 
justice seminar at Yale, Hayes has helped the 
Coalition sell its message and won the support 
of the TAC, the Yale Forestry School, and 
the Boston law firm, McRoberts, Roberts, & 
Rainer. 
In Hartford at a public hearing with the 
DEP's commissioner, asked how involved the 
Newhall Coalition would be in future decisions 
about the remecliation process. Mike Harder, a 
representative of the DEP, responded that the 
15 



**Title: Newhall Coalition Fights for Environmental Justice**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
community could have @ed for convening status, but that "the window 
of opportunity had closed" and the consent order would not include 
the Newhall Coalition in any capacity. "I was livid!" Hayes exclaimed. 


At that point it seemed all the community's efforts were futile, and 
they would have to rely on the authority of the DEP to promote their 
interests, which it had failed to do in the past. "So we decided to get 
legaL No one will listen to you until you get legal," Hayes, but that 
point a veteran activist, says knowingly." Hayes contacted seven firms, 
all outside of Connecticut, and decided to hire Mark Roberts, a Boston 
attorney with experience in representing communities in environmental 
lawsuits. In May 2003, a suit was @ed against the town and state, 
claiming the Newhall community was unrepresented in the remediation 
process and that the residents were given no way to formally address 
their concerns to the DEP. Over one hundred residents signed on to 
the suit, representing over one third of the homes in Newhall. 


The media ate up the story and word of the lawsuit spread quickly, 
attracting environmental activists across the country, including the 
legendary Lois Gibbs, of the famed Love Canal case. Gibbs visited 
Newhall in November 2003 and spoke in support of the Newhall 
Coalition and their battle against the DEP and Olin Corporation. 


While the immediate health risk to Hamden residents may not have 
been as dire as those in Love Canal in the 1970s, Gibbs drew striking 
comparisons between the two communities and urged Elizabeth and 
others to continue challenging the standards of the DEP. "It was a huge 
inspiration to have Lois come here," said Hayes. "The DEP didn't like 
it at all because of the publicity, but we had been struggling through 
frustrating times and she gave us the motivation and hope to keep 
16 
moving forward." 


And there was plenty to cause frustration. A timeline was 
established that set 2006 as the target date for the remediation. But 
in recent meetings, the DEP has projected it may not be until 2008 
before Newhall is cleaned up. Questions were raised about the DEP's 
conflict of interest for delay. ''You want to talk about conflicts of 
interest; you should look at where the DEP gets its money!" Hayes says. 
"Olin Corporation is giving the DEP money for the cleanup, but the 
DEP is supposed to be protecting us from companies like Olin. Who's 
watching the watchdog?" 


Newhall residents were also concerned about the fate of their 
neighborhood if the middle school is relocated. With property values 
dropping, the community runs the risk of heading into a period of 
decay. When the school moves, residents fear Newhall will be become a 
ghost town, not attracting any new families or businesses. "Having the 
middle school here is a great asset to Newhall because it makes people 
look around and notice us." 


T
HE MOST RECENT PUBUC MEETING of the Newhall Coalition in 
December, which Hayes presided over, included updates from 
their lawyer, Mark Roberts, and Jay Rasku, a representative from 
the TAC. Olin had just finished putting four inches of topsoil over ten 
of the designated "hotspots." But, Henry Blue, an outspoken old-timer 
of the NAC, delivered a speech about why he had refused to allow Olin 
to cover up his property with the topsoil, vehemently declaring that he 
believed in doing a job right the first time. He was unwilling to let Olin 
get away with such a quick 6x. Mark Roberts spoke next, presenting 


the latest developments in the investigation phase of the remediation 
project, doing his best to defend the capping process derided by Blue. 


When Roberts mentioned that cleanup may be pushed back to 2008, 
Hayes glared at him from her front-row seat at, but he seemed not to 
notice. One resident asked if he knew where Olin would put the waste 
once it had been removed from their properties. 


At one point, there had been discussion of dumping the 
contaminated soil in one of the fields behind the middle school, but a 
substantial outcry put an end to that discussion. 'We don't know yet. 
Probably a hazardous waste site somewhere," Robert's responded. "I 
say we dump it in the mayor's house," someone responded in a low 
voice to quiet cheers and giggles. 


Other residents spoke up about tax abatement, health concerns, 
the most recent timeline for cleanup, and the technical aspects of the 
lawsuit. Rasku and Blue both urged more neighbors to join the suit, 
and one woman invited others to join her in attending meetings at City 
Hall: ''If they won't come to us, then we will go to them. We pay taXes, .. 
and if they are representing us then they need to hear our voices." 


Hayes later characterized the meeting as a tame one, insinuating Aying 
insults and harsh words exchanged on former occasions, but were 
impressive enough. The small, individual efforts of these citizens to 
demand acknowledgement, which have added up to a substantial force 
for the town and state to reckon with 


L
ooking back on that first discussion with the town building 
official in 1996, Hayes shakes her head. ''I had no idea what was 
going on. If I had only known ... " Her voice trails off, but she is 
February 2005 
smiling. Despite the setbacks, she is hopeful that the Newhall Coalition's 
work is making a difference. She recently attended an EPA conference 
in Washington, D C, where she met a professor from John's Hopkins 
University who has joined her cadre. Students at the Environment21 
Resource Institute at Storrs University are now also working with the 
Coalition, and Elizabeth keeps a pile o f informational handouts in the 
office to give to anyone who is interested in the technical aspects o f the 
remediation. "This is my way of giving back to the community," she 
says. "I have learned how to become my own advocate, and information 
is the key. I want to share that with every person in this neighborhood, 
and maybe someday they will all want to know." She shares a story 
of an 85-year-old woman who approached her a few months ago and 
said, "Baby, when will all this be over? I've got to get on with my life." 
Elizabeth has made a promise to her neighbor: "2006;' she says. She 
only hopes she can keep it. 


-
Libi?Jl min is a j11nUir in Pinson Colkge. 
17 




**Title: The Green**
**Author: Flora Lichtman**
**Page number(s): 20-21**

Architects around the world are clarno


use
to build Yale a piece


**Yale's Green Promise: A Sustainable Building on Prospect Street**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
o ~etop 
of a hill, overlooking 
a grove of towering 
oaks and skinny pines, a 
glassy, ultra-modern building 
will sit. No smoke will puff from 
its chimneys. No Sew2ge will flow 
from its pipes. No heat will escape in 
the winter. No cool air will seep out in the 
summer. Its roof will be blanketed with ferns 
and moss. A natural breeze will drift through 
its sunny halls. Nothing inside will be tainted 
by pesticides or other chemicals. This is Yale's 
promise-a tiny slice of paradise on Prospect 
Street by 2008. 


The School of Forestry and Environmental 
Studies (FES) raised 27 million dollars to design 
and construct an environmentally-friendly 
building to be located in Sachem's Wood-an 
ironic misnomer for the dilapidated one-acre 
field hemmed in by the backside of Olin 
Memorial Laboratory, Kline Biology Tower 
and a power plant. This project has attracted 
the attention of architects from all over the 
world. Robert A.M. Stern, Dean of Yale School 
of Architecture (YSOA), who has designed 
corporate offices for 
many high-profile 
companies, including Walt Disney and The 
Gap. describes this project as unprecedented. 
"I don't know of any university building 
that lus such high environmental ambitions 
as this one," he says. Universities have not 
been enviro-trendsetters, and until now, Yale 
lus been no exception. This is precisely the 
argument that Steven Kellen, FES professor 
and lead faculty member working on the 
project, has employed to pressure President 
22 
Levin into supporting this new building. "If 
we presume to be a leader, we should act like a 
leader," Kellert says. 


But can Yale pull it off? The project is 
ambitious for many reasons, not the least 
of which is the building's designated site. It 
will be a challenge to design a building that 
communes with nature in a city like New 
Haven, on a street like Prospect. "The building 
is going in what would have to be described 
as a rat hole," says James Gustav Speth, the 
Dean of FES, the founder of the Natural 
Resources Defense Council, former Director 
of the Administrator of the United Nations 
Development Programme and the author of 
RedS~ at Morning: America and the Crisis of 
the Global Environment. "I mean it is right out 
here," he says, pointing out the window of 
his office. "It's a rat hole. There's a big power 
plant sitting there now and it's the ugliest thing 
at Yale." 


The Yale architectural landscape also 
poses a challenge for designers: it will take 
imagination to build an ultra-modern building 
that meets sustainability requirements and also 
blends into Yale's gothic context. In designing 
the recent expansion of the Museum of 
Modern Art in New York City, architect Yoshi 
Taniguchi worked hard to harmonize the new 
building with its midtown surroundings. Paul 
Goldberger, the Dean of Parsons School of 
Design, writes in a review for The Ntw Yorker, 
"Until now, the Modern has had an unresolved, 
almost 
hesitant 
relationship 
with 
midtown 
Manhattan .... The old Modem occupied 
the street in sullen isolation; this one dances 
with its neighbors." The architect of the new 
FES building will have to work hard to get 
this building to tango with its stony Prospect 
Street companions. 'The gothic context is a 
fundamental expression of Yale," says Dean 
Stern. "Plopping a glassy box down in the 
middle of it doesn't seem to be enough of a 
response." 


The architect will also face logistical 
stumbling blocks. The building seeks to be 
"energy-neutral" (it will consume no energy 
that it hasn't generated itself), a system 
technically ambitious to design, even in a 
vacuum. The site picked out for the building, 
Sachem's Wood, is a sloping hill; constructing 
any building on this type of terrain is tricky. 
The climate is also a concern; a general 
criterion of sustainable buildings is that they 
are naturally ventilated-that means no air 
conditioning. New Haven gets hot and humid 
in the summers. Designing a building in a 
New Haven that is naturally ventilated and 
also bearable to work in twelve months a year 
seems almost impossible to imagine. So can it 
be done? "I doubt it," says Dean Stern. 


The implications of the success or 
failure of this building will extend far 
beyond Yale's gates. This little-50,000 
square foot-building has generated a buzz 
among architects around the globe. "One 
thing you appreciate when you go around 
the world is how much people look to places 
like Yale," says University Planner Pamela 
Delphenich, an architect herself. 


At an international 
The New Journal 


--- Page 23 ---


t 
r 
1 
ustainability conference in Oregon last 
month, the new FES building "was the talk 
of the conference," says Delphenich, and 
ground hasn't even been broken yet. Over 
the next few years, architects, universities and 
the environmental community at large will 
be watchlng the progress of Yale's new FES 
building. The success of thls little building 
will set an architectural benchmark likely to be 
noted around the world. 


ALTHOUGH CONSTRUCTION WON'T begin 
for at least eight months, the process 
swell underway: an archltect has been 
chosen and a landscape archltect solicited to 
turn Sachem's Wood into a wood. The building 
will be the home of the Yale Environmental 
Center and will serve as a base for the School 
of Forestry and Environmental Studies. It 
will house the undergraduate Environmental 
Studies department and provide office space 
for Yale Students Environmental Coalition 
(YSEC). I twill also have exhibit space, meeting 
rooms, an auditorium and an environmental 
library. The building is one piece of the 
long term makeover of Science Hill, which 
stretches from the end of Hillhouse Ave. to 
the Divinity school. ''This whole area is going 
to be landscaped in a very different, and I 
think, spectacular way," says James Gustav 
Speth, Dean of FES. 


Unlike the other departments--chemistry 
and engineering most notably-with buildings 
popping up on Science Hill, FES was requited 
to raise all the money for construction itself. 
"The chemistry building next door frustrates 
me a little because it gets paid for by Yale," 
said Stephen Kellett, a professor at FES and 
the lead faculty member in charge of the 
construction of the new building. "Because 
we are like a self-sufficient professional school, 
we are expected to raise our own resources." 


Kellett is the visionary behind the building, 
and has been pushing the project for 
four years. When Dean Speth 
arrived at FES, one of 
the 6rst projects he 
took on was a 
fundraising 
u February 2005 
campaign for the building. Donors include 
Richard Kroon, former analyst at Donaldson, 
Lufkin & Jenrette and managing partner of its 
Sprout Group venture capital fund; Edward 
Bass, a member of the Yale Corporation 
and Chief Executive Officer of Fine Line 
Inc., a diversified venture and investment 
capital company; Carl Knobloch, for whom 
the Yale Environment Center will be named; 
and Gilman Ordway, who operates a ranch in 
Wyoming. 


Twenty-seven million dollars may seem 
extravagant, but it's a pittance compared to 
what Yale is spending on its residential college 
renovations, projected tocost$80 million nearly 
a decade ago. Also, sustainable architecture-
the genre to which thls building will belong-
is, in general, more expensive initially because 
it requires sophisticated design and advanced 
technology to reduce energy consumption, 
pollution and other negative environmental 
impacts. The rationale is that the investment 
is made up in maintenance costs, which are 
usually lower for green buildings because 
energy consumption is lower. Universities are 
especially good sites for sustainable buildings 
because the cost savings are guaranteed to last. 
''Yale doesn't build buildings for the ten-year 
haul; Yale builds for the one thousand-year 
haul," observes Dean Stern. Old universities 
stick around-and so do their buildings. 


Although it's difficult to know whether 
the "we can do it ourselves" rhetoric was 
adopted after FES learned that Yale did not 
plan to fund the project, either way, FES has 
turned its self-sufficiency into a dogma for the 
building. The fact that the School of Forestry 
and Environmental Studies raised the money 
alone is important. Kellett has expressed one 
of his design objectives for the new building, 
with the slogan, ''Build a Ford not a- Ferrari," 
a catch phrase he later describes as "a cutesy 
wutesy way of saying if Yale had subsidized 
the project, the building would not have 
the widespread applicability it does now: it 
wouldn't be an instrUctional model for others 
because they could say, 'Oh yeah you built it 
because Yale is so rich,' or 'because you got 
all this extra money.' It's' very important we 
don't spend too much.'' To insure that Yale is 
building something that other universities can 
emulate, the costs can not be excessive. 


''We are willing to spend an 
initial cost premium, 
but not 
a great initial cost premium and not one that 
can't be easily rationalized by paybacks in a 
reasonable period of time," Kellett adds. 


FES 
has 
invested 
more 
in 
thls 
construction than money. The new building 
has been pitched as a physical embodiment 
of the century-old principles of the school. 
The mandate is to create a building that 
is a "symbol of FES' academic program," 
according to Bob Dinseeko, the landscape 
architect in charge of Science Hill's overall 
redevelopment. Delphenich, the University 
Planner, adds that commissioning a building 
for which the physical structure has meaning 
is unusual. ''We do not often do a project that 
is so symbolic-it is a physical manifestation 
of their values." In its broadest meaning, 
sustainability will be the concept embodied. 
At the most basic level, the building must be 
designed in such a way as to minimize adverse 
effects on the natural environment. 


:, 
Devdopment, 
sprawl, 
and 
wasteM 
buildings are critical environmental concerns: 
''The environmental crisis is very much a 
crisis of the built environment,'' Kellett' 
says. A climbing world population and the 
urbanization of undeveloped countries hav~ 
exacerbated development issues, 
making, 
the need for sustainable design even more 
pressing. 


The traditional approach to sustainable 
development has been to mitigate, minimize 
and avoid the physical effects of building. 
Sustainable architecture emphasizes attention 
to energy and resource use, atmospheric. 
degradation, toxi6cation of food chains, 
pollution and loss of biodiversity. But what 
is perhaps most exciting about the new FES 
building is that it promises to go beyond 
the traditional definition of sustainability, 
to incorporate a less mainstream and more . 
cutting edge vision of green design. "From . 
my perspective,'' Kellett explains, "there is 
another side to the environmental crisis. And 
that is the increasing separation and alienation . 
of people from the natural environment." 


Kellett's vision for sustainable architecture, 
seeks to reconnect humans with nature. "We. 
evolved in a biological world, not an atcificial 
wodd. Our fundamental physical, mental 
and, I would even argue, moral or spiritual 
well-being depends upon our experiential 
connection to nature. We are just beginning tCl 
discover what that means. But it appears to be 
a biologically encoded need." 


Biophilia, the theory that humans have an 
innate tendency to affiliate with nature, u.-as 
6rst proposed by the well-, 


--- Page 24 ---

----- ~~~~~~~~------------~-----
known 
ffarvard biolo~st 
E.O. Wilson. Wilson and Kellert 
later published Hypotheses on Biophilia, further 
outlining this principle. Biophillic design, 
introduced in the book, demands more 
than renewable energy, good insulation and 
minimized waste. Also referred to as "positive-
impact design," biophillic design requires a 
more rigorous interpretation of what it means 
to be green. Kellen sees in this building the 
potential to "achieve a new benchmark of 
sustainable design by expanding the envelope 
of what we mean by sustainable design. We 
have kind of high hopes for this." 


If you believe, as Kellert does, that the 
crisis of the built environment is not an intrinsic 
and inevitable failure of the modern world, 
the question becomes: how can architecture 
not only mitigate adverse effects on natural 
systems, but also, as he puts it, "restore a 
degree of positive experiential connection" to 
nature? Part of the biophilia hypothesis is that 
humans learn better and are more productive 
in natural environments, which makes a 
college campus a perfect testing ground for 
the theory. Examples already exist on campus, 
Kellett argues, pointing out, "The old campus 
is replete with those lcinds of connections." 


The courtyards, the ivy growing up the sides 
of buildings, the stone help us feel connected 
to the natural world. 


According to Kellett, who was not 
trained as an architect, successfully fusing 
biophilia and architectural design hinges on 
attention to context, which seems to be the 
crux of good contemporary design. "You 
can do it in various ways: directly, indirectly 
and symbolically. You can do it with the 
materials you use, the environments you 
create, the ornamental qualities you create, 
but you can also do with the relationship of 
the building to its landscape." Kellett argues 
that a building must show a commitment to, 
and a compatibility with the place where it is 
built. There is an integrity and sense of place 
on Old Campus, he says. ''You don't feel that 
way at Kline Biology Tower, I think because it 
is out of scale ecolo~cally and culturally with 
its context. Even though it was considered 
when it was built to be one of the great Phillip 
Johnson buildings, it was almost built like it 
stood by itself. without any relation, like it was 
in a vacuum." 


The context for the FES building is 
Sachem's Wood: in fact, the new building 
includes a title of "stewardship over Sachem's 
Wood," as Dean Speth puts it. The Wood will 
24 
be landscaped by the 
Olin Corporation, in conjunction with 
Cesar Pelli-who designed the acclaimed 
Petronas Towers in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. 
If all goes according to plan, Sachem's Wood 
will become a destination spot for students 
and faculty. In its present condition, Sachem's 
Wood requires more than a makeover-
nothing less than serious surgery will turn it 
into a pleasant space on campus. The Wood's 
revitalization is just one part of a dialogue 
that was started 15 years ago about how to 
redesign Prospect Street and Science Hill. 


Yale has cropped up in spurts, and Science 
Hill, a half-mile stretch, may be the last 
project of this scale that Yale takes on for a 
while. "It is the last remaining superblock," 
notes. Dinseeko, one of Yale's landscape 
architects. There isn't much more space left 
that needs redesigning. 


A
UNIVERSITY-SPONSORED 
APPROACH 
to sustainability is relatively new. 
Following the advice of the Advisory 
Committee on Environmental Management, 
last year Yale hired Julie Newman, formerly 
the Sustainability Director at the University 
of New Hampshire, to direct sustainability 
at Yale. Given the lack of attention paid 
to 
sustainability in recent renovations, 
the environmental community welcomed 
the creation of Newman's position. In 
comparison to other universities, Yale stacks 
up poorly. "Well, yes it's behind, but I say that 
reluctantly," Newman says. ''While sure, we're 
not as far as Harvard, there's so much fire and 
excitement about this at Yale and that will 
enable us to move forward." 


Perhaps Yale's most pressing problem 
relating to its built environment is energy use. 
"The momentum for the greening of Yale 
is beginning to grow," Speth says. ''A lot of 
the greening of the University is focused on 
the energy system of the University, which 
is antiquated, wasteful and polluting." Speth 
says. A FES committee designed to evaluate 
the energy use at Yale found that Yale's 
energy consumption was high relative to 
other schools. "Yale has more greenhouse gas 
emissions than 32 countries," Speth says, with 
the qualifier, "they are little countries. My big 
concern as a Dean here is to try to encourage 
the University to do something about this." 


Environmentalism aside, Yale 
will have to do something. It's now the law. 
Last June, Connecticut adopted a greenhouse 
gas reduction policy and a renewable energy 
policy that will control the State's power 
utilities. T he question for Yale, Speth thinks, is 
how the University wants to respond: "Does' 
Yale want to keep up with the state? Do we 
want to be leaders on this? Do we want to be 
the last people to do something?" 


The new FES building has been pitched 
as an opportunity for Yale to show a 
commitment to being a part of the solution. 
Yale recognized this--and in typical Yale 
fashion, the building has been promised 
to be the greenest of the green. ''When we 
started to talk about this four years ago, it was 
pretty strange stuff," Kellett admits. ''Very 
few people understood what we were tallcing 
about. In a few short years, the University 
has become extraordinarily committed to the 
notion of sustainability." This building is an 
opportunity for Yale to prove it. 


The concept of sustainability, from a 
philosophical point of view, is well-matched 
for a university like Yale. "We want to be a 
realization of our ideals in built form because 
we are basically a school about sustainability;' 
Kellert says. Yale has sustained itself for 
three hundred years; it seems apt that Yale 
should adopt an architecture that also values 
longevity. 


WITH SUCH LOFTY AMBmONS, AND 
such a hilly, humid, urban site, the 
architect selected for the project 
will have to have a great deal of imagination 
to pull this off. To add to the challenge, 
green architecture requires incorporating 
sophisticated science and technology into 
the design; according to Kellert, it is tricky 
because "sustainable design CUJS across every 
function." 


The paradox is that the architect must also 
be able to divorce himself from traditional 
uses of mechanical systems in the building: 
Sustainable design is what Kellett dubs "back 
to the future design." To make a building 
sustainable one must 6nd alternatives to 
energy-wasting machines. "One hundred years 
ago, people just sweated it out," Dean Stern 
says, "and went home at 3pm in the summer." 
Today our expectations have changed. 



**The Yale Green Building Project**
**Author: Flora Whitfield**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The process of choosing an architect was highly elective and demanded the attention of two committees. The Architect Selection Committee is made up mostly of administrators-"the committee with the teeth," says James Axley, a landscape architect who co-teaches a sustainable design class with Kellen. Axley himself sits on the other committee, the FES Facility Committee. Stephen Kellert is the Chairman of both. The Selection Committee is "nominally in power to advise the President," Axley says, but ultimately, President Levin has the final sway. 

The initial list of sixty potential architects was chosen based on the architects' experience with sustainable design. The first cut was done internally, without input from the architects. "Doing a shower stall for your room doesn't qualify you to do a building at Yale," said Delphenich, who serves on the Administrative committee. From the original sixty, thirty were asked for "RFQs" (Requests for Qualifications). Twenty-four of the thirty responded to the request. ("This was a very high number," says Kellert.) Architects on the original list included William McDunough, who did a high-profile green building at Oberlin College. After this, 12 were asked to submit a proposal indicating their approach to the project and invited for an on-site visit. Six of these architects were interviewed by the selection committee, which included President Levin, Dean Stern of the School of Architecture and Stephen Kellen. Delphenich, also present at all the interviews, said that of the six, "three really stood out. There was really no question." The three finalists were all European-not a surprise considering Europe is ahead of the United States in terms of green design. "Sustainability has been embedded in architecture there for years--they are way ahead of us," Delphenich says. 

Europe, according to Dean Speth, "resisted totally ventilated environments." Europeans created laws setting sustainability standards: "In an office, you must be within thirty feet of a window in Europe." Stern adds. He attributes the laws to stronger office-worker unions that pushed for these types of regulations; he also notes that, for the most part, the climate is less harsh, making green design easier to implement. The U.S. had similar standards in the '20s, which affected the construction of Rockefeller Center in which all desks are within 27 feet of a window. But after the invention of air conditioning, the standards were quickly dropped. Sustainability concepts are just beginning to resurface in this country, but if Europe is any indication, green design will be a significant element of the future of architecture. 

To decide between the final three architects, Yale sent Kellert, Delphenich and several other members of the committees around the world to see the architects' buildings and kick the tires, so to speak. The Yale representatives spent most of their time in London and the Netherlands. "We went to visit many of the buildings of the finalists because there is rhetoric and there is reality," Kellert says. "A lot of this is new. So you have to go see how these things perform." 

The traveling evaluators were concerned with the user-friendliness of the buildings. They asked questions like: "Okay, they did all these things to reduce mechanical energy and they eliminated air conditioning, okay, but do you like working here? Is it comfortable? After all, it's about comfort too." Seeing the buildings in person helped a great deal in coming to a conclusion, Delphenich and Kellen agreed. 

The three architects that made it to the final round are what Axley calls "the cream of the crop"-Alan Short, Stefan Behnisch and Sir Michael Hopkins. Short, Chair of Architecture at Cambridge University, who is renowned for naturally cooling his buildings with oversized chimneys, plans to work with his Cambridge colleague Andrew Wood and environmental engineer, Malcolm Cook. The Sunday Times described his work as, "heart-on-sleeve, manifesto architecture. It is saying that ecological thinking can and should result in buildings that not only are different, but look different as well, with new shapes, new roofscapes." His buildings are bold, beautiful, and always green. 

Stefan Behnisch works out of Stuttgart, Germany and is slated to teach at the Yale School of Architecture (YSOA) next year. His corresponding environmental team includes Tomas Auer, a leading faculty member at the YSOA. The members of the selection committee visited Behnisch's 200,000 square foot Genzyme building in Cambridge, Massachusetts, one of his most famous works. Behnisch's firm, Behnisch, Behnisch & Parmer, also designed the Forestry Research Building in the Netherlands. This building, like Genzyme, pushed the envelope of sustainable design. It was described by the firm as a "low-tech building with a high-tech result where scientists can work in almost Eden-like surroundings." Of the final architects selected, Behnisch's work is perhaps the most cutting edge, but can he design a green building that fits in the Yale context? His green architecture is often glassy and modern-it is hard to imagine a sister to the Genzyme building blending in with its would-be gothic neighbors. 

Sir Michael Hopkins, who taught at YSOA last year, focuses on using environmentally friendly products in his designs. His team is made up of Patrick Bellum and Ove Arup. Hopkins' most significant project was huge: he won the design contest for University of Nottingham's new million square foot campus in Nottingham, England. He also designed the new and expensive Parliament building in Westminster. His designs are black tuxedos to Short's informal and flamboyant party outfits. Hopkins' work is more academic than that of Short or Behnisch-but perhaps less fun. 

But Hopkins' tuxedos are more green than black. One can imagine his formal Parliament building quietly moving into a neighborhood that includes Harkness Tower and Sterling Memorial Library, and that formalism ultimately may be a good fit for Yale's mandate. And in fact Kellett confirmed this. Although nothing has been finalized, Hopkins is Yale's top choice. 

According to Axley, "the architects that are competing are very interested in securing this project." But why would these world-class architects care about securing a 27 million dollar, 50,000 square foot building, in which they'll be at the mercy of a dozen egos, all with deep interests and firm ideas about how the building should come out? There seem to be several reasons, beyond the obvious "it's Yale and Yale is famous"-though that part of the story should not be underestimated. "This is a very interesting building and of course, Yale is an important client," Dean Stern says. Axley concurs, "This project is going to be relatively high profile, well beyond the national level." 

But Yale also provides a type of security that other project sites do not. As Axley points out, architects want their work to last. "Architects are in the game of sustaining buildings. Yale ups the ante because it is old. Architects assume their buildings will remain for hundreds of years." 

In sustainable architecture, this point is also important. Because the assumption is that the building will stick around for as long as the University does, the risk of putting up a premium with the promise of future savings is less risky. This may be smart business in a more fundamental way. This little piece of paradise could be an indicator of Yale's academic future. "President Levin seems to have more interest in this--that's the rumor," Axley says. "Why was the faculty at FES expanded? Why was Dean Speth selected? Was that an accident?" Axley suggests that it was not. "Levin is interested in FES and because of this, environmental studies is of greater importance." Axley argues that because environmental problems are not going away, putting the University's stock in environmental research is a safe bet. 

Building this new, state-of-the-art, definition-expanding building demonstrates a commitment to environmentalism that will inevitably contribute to Yale's image as environmentally conscious. It will, in turn, attract environmental researchers, which will bring more grants. "There is an ethical and moral responsibility," Axley says. "But also this can position the research machine to keep the intellectual machine growing." 

At the very least, the process of looking for a green architect has affected the mindset of powerful people on campus. "I came away with a whole new level of commitment to addressing sustainability in projects. I think we have a moral obligation," Delphenich says after her trip to Europe. Competition with other universities will also drive Yale forward-the "bigger better" mentality, as Delphenich dubs it, serves as a prod. "One trap we haven't fallen into," she assures me, "is hiring significant architects to do wildly controversial, wildly expensive buildings to attract students. There is a certain cache to putting up a building by a world architect; I don't think we've felt the need to do that. We've selected architects because they are right for the job." 

According to President Levin, a final decision has been made and negotiations are underway. Delphenich says that there was "complete unanimity" regarding the architect who was selected. He was seen as the most holistically-thinking of the three, Delphenich added. "President Levin has a great talent for architecture and he makes decisions for the right reasons." But ultimately, the idea was that after paring down the list from thirty to three, any of the architects could have done the job. "It is up to us to make sure that President Levin sees only the people who can do the job--then it's his sense of what's right," Delphenich says. 

If it seems strange to have President Levin, an administrator with no architectural training, choose the architect, Dean Stern points to the advantages of having a non-architect make the final call: "I sometimes think that it's better that they are not hired by other architects-architects tend to be jealous." Plus, Stern adds, "Levin has very good instincts." 

THE ARCHITECT SELECTED FACES A TASK. The task of inventing sustainability on Yale's campus for an audience that stretches around the world, on a hilly site, on a superblock, in a region with hot and humid summers, in New Haven, Connecticut. There is a lot riding on this building. 

But in some ways success is certain. All three finalists are acclaimed and green-minded. The money has been raised. The University and FES seem determined to build. What we will not know until 2008, or until the building has been put to the test, is not whether it will be an obvious failure-Yale would never allow that-but whether it will be a subtle failure. Although we don't know what shade the building will ultimately be, for the first time, Yale blue is shooting for deep green. 

Flora Whitfield, a senior at Dartmouth College, is the Editor-in-Chief of TNJ. 

Special thanks to: 
Qi Yan • Casey Miner 
Katy Rivlin • Sara Schneider 
Ricky Kamp • Adina Lopatin 
Lissy Desantis • Ruth Lichtman 
From: TheNewJournal




**Title: Immanuel Baptist**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
II Poverty is at our doorstep every Sunday. But poverty 
because they're not working hard enough. Poverty is 
.about personal responsibility. We as a black communi 
T
O CALL THE WORSHIP SERVlCE at Immanuel Missionary Baptist 
Church "vibrant'' is like calling the Statue of Liberty "a big 
girl"-it doesn't quite make the point. The Immanuel service 
inspires emotional intensity within its parishioners. Neither forced nor 
flamboyant, the service seems to produce deep communal spirituality 
with surprising naturalness. It is a participatory experience: a dozen 
different people lead the service at different points, using scripted and 
spontaneous call-and-response rather than prolonged lecturing. The 
steady stream of soulful music emanating from the choir to the back 
pews creates a soundtrack for this dramatic religious expression. Even 
for an atheist guest, it is hard to resist being swept away. 


"Are you of a different faith?" the woman beside me asked after 
I passed on the communion plate, foregoing wine and a wafer. The 
question came at the tail end of a service during which the pastor had 
nearly blown out the audio system with shouts of "Come on over!" and 
"Jump up in Jesus' name!" A number of women had broken into tears 
and a well-dressed gendeman had leapt out of his seat, stomping and 
yelling in a spontaneous spiritual spasm. These passionate worshipers 
did not seem out of place; throughout the service, dozens of 
parishioners called out and clapped to some of the best gospel music 
and most thrilling oratory I had ever heard. My previous religious life 
had consisted of coerced High Holiday attendance at Beth Shalom 
Synagogue in Seattle, so for me the black church experience was a 
completely new one. It wasn't that I was merely, as my neighbor had 
clearly noticed, "of a different faith"-! was of an entirely different 
world. 


I 
~'>£MANUEL BAPTIST stands on the corner of Chapel and Day streets 
in New Haven. It is pyramid-shaped and made of brown, layered 
brick-it's distincdy 1970s modern look belies Immanuel's status 
as Connecticut's oldest black Baptist church. The congregation dates 
back to 1825, when several black members of New Haven's two Baptist 
churches began meeting in secret to pray. A 1985 church brochure states 
that Immanuel's founders "worshipped in halls, yards, private homes or 
wherever possible" until 1845, when the white First Baptist Church 
of New Haven recognized them as an independent congregation. 


The Third Baptist Church of New Haven became New Haven's first 
autonomous black church. 


But, New Haven's African-American Baptists continued to meet 
informally until1884, when they built their own church in Immanuel's 
current location on Chapel Street. The church that was built housed 
the Immanuel community for nearly ninety years, but condemned by 
the city for half its life, it was in use for only forty. The "new" church 
was erected in 1973; its construction was the pet project of then-
30 
Reverend C.M. Cofield. His wife, Elsie, had urged him to buy an old 
Episcopal Church that was up for sale nearby, but Cofield wanted a 
new building, whatever the price. "I thought black people needed to 
plan something of their own, not something whites used up and sold 
to black folk." With loans from a few local banks, Cofield raised $7 
million for the upgrade, creating another first in the Immanuel history 
book. No black church had ever raised more than one million for a 
new edifice. 


The Cofields, married nearly sixty years, are products of a bygone 
era. They stand when their guest excuses himself to find the restroom 
and are too polite to complain when our interview runs grossly 
overtime. Rev. Cofield's quiet manner casts his slight frame in a brooding 
seriousness. "I had difficulty finding satisfaction in what I'd done," he 
says of his 53 years as a pastoL "I never really felt at peace with myself 
until I'd retired." It was a curious admission from the Reverend,whose 
36 years behind the Immanuel pulpit make him the longest-serving 
pastor in the congregation's nearly two century history. 


By contrast, Elsie Cofield, Rev. Cofield's wife, is warm and effusive. 
For nearly twenty years she has been a celebrated community leader in 
her own right. After retiring from teaching in 1987, Mrs. Cofield founded 
the AIDS Interfaith Network, a non-profit organization providing 
comprehensive care to people living with AIDS in greater New Haven. 
Beginning with just a few volunteers in the church basement, AIDS 
Interfaith boasts its own building across the street from the church 
and has become one of the city's top two agencies providing HIV I 
AIDS support. Mrs. Cofield's office is replete with plaques and awards 
from dozens of organizations, from the NAACP to Hispanos Unidos, 
honoring her work in the fight against AIDS. "We've done a lot," she 
admits with a grin. 


The Cofields are iconic at Immanuel Baptist Church. Besides 
building the church, they worked to ensure that the "community would 
not be forgotten." Establishing a weekly soup kitchen, a "clothes 
closet," and a homeless shelter, the Cofields almost single-handedly 
made Immanuel one of the more active churches in supporting the 
black community. Both see public service as a fundamental element of 
their faith. As Rev. Cofield puts it, "I don't think a church is authentic 
unless it has a missionary philosophy and action." 


On the surface, the Cofields' mission still plays a prominent role 
at Immanuel. For Ola Sanders, a member of the church since 1952, 
Immanuel is still a "foundation of New Haven" both "spiritually and 
socially." She points to the soup kitchen, the homeless shelter, and 
the low-income housing that the church rents to New Haveners, as 
examples of the church's importance in New Haven. Diane Petaway, 
an Immanuel member since 1986, agrees. ''Because of the community



**Immanuel Baptist: A Haven of Affluence and Discontent**
**Author: Zarh fonts**
**Page number(s): 31-32**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
today has a Reaganesque meaning: People are poor 
not about drugs or alcohol or abuse anymore, but 
have bought into this." -Rev. Ross-Lee 
services we provide, if someone in New Haven has a problem, [they] 
know where Immanuel Baptist is." Ms. Pettaway, who visits the elderly 
and the sick as an Immanuel "Interfaith Giver," believes a "majority of 
church members are active in community service." 

Cofield's successor wants to continue the legacy of volunteerism 
and charity. At 42, Rev. Samuel Ross-Lee is a dynamic and dramatic 
force from the pulpit, his enormous baritone as remarkable in song as it 
is rousing in sermon. His speaking style is animated and pedagogical-
an appropriate blend of his Morehouse and Harvard degrees. Asked if 
he sees himself as a moral teacher, Ross-Lee replies, "I'm scared of that 
word." Instead, he prefers "prophetic," not in its traditional religious 
meaning but "in the Cornell West sense of the word--a social critic 
with notion of the divine." 

It is difficult to conceive of just how different Rev. Ross-Lee is from 
his predecessor. Rev. Cofield arrived five minutes early to our meeting, 
dressed in a sleek, tan business suit; Ross-Lee arrived ten minutes late in 
an Adidas workout suit. Cofield rarely replied to questions in excess of 
twenty words; Ross-Lee's responses were often near dissertation length. 
His only moments of reticence came with questions about his family. 
(When he was four years old. Rev. Ross-Lee's mother abandoned him 
"for the typical reasons" to the foster system.) As well-versed in modern 
philosophy as he is in faith-based initiatives, Ross-Lee references articles 
from both Ebony and Esquire in a single thought. He straddles, often 
awkwardly, the fence between populism and elitism. 

On at least one issue, however, the old-school/ new-school 
approaches of Reverends Cofield and Ross-Lee converge. As Ross-
Lee put it, "Immanuel should be a force in this community." To him 
this means preaching, service and sacrifice. At one service I attended, 
the church recognized six or seven parishioners for community service 
work and general civic-mindedness. The preacher asked the community 
to follow their example: "God has blessed us with homes, food and 
comfort. Let's go out and help someone who can't help themselves. As 
the kids say, 'You feelin' me?, 


t;T l'o:OT ENOUGH PEOPLE ARE GET11NG THE MESSAGE, suggests 
Rev. Ron Smith, who subbed for an ill Rev. Ross-Lee on one of 
the Sundays I visited. Recently, church volunteerism has been 
dwindling, and the situation at the soup kitchen-the longtime staple 
of Immanuel community service-has become critical. 'We need your 
help," pleaded Rev. Smith. Without it, he warns, "we may have to shut 
it down." 

In the embattled soup kitchen, only a dozen volunteers are on hand 
after services to scramble around a linoleum-floored auditorium and 
February 2005 
prepare food for the throngs of people already lined up outside. One 
volunteer, Mark Fletcher, hands out pastries and a Tang-like orange 
beverage. "There are a lot of people less fortunate than I am," Aetcher 
says. "I just see this as part of my duty at the church." A postal wor~er 
in Branford, Fletcher joined the church just this year, having been 
baptized in May. He told me he "loves Immanuel," but admitted he was 
disappointed by the "low number who work in the soup kitchen." 

There is evidence of a general decline in the Immanuel soup 
kitchen: four years ago the soup kitchen served "approximately 400 
people each Sunday." One of the afternoons I visited, between 80 and 
100 people came to eat, prompting a volunteer to describe it as a "busy 
day." Cofield noted that the Sunday soup kitchen lasted "two and a half 
hours" in his day. Today, the sign outside the building reads, "Soup 
Kitchen, Sunday, 1:30pm - 2:00pm." 

· 
Church leaders urge all members to volunteer at least one Sunday 
a month at the soup kitchen. Nevertheless, the bulk of the burden fall;; 
to what Deacon Charles Williams called "a small cadre" of regulars. 
"We should have people climbing on top of each other to do what's 
needed to be done [m the soup kitchen)," Williams says. Instead, "we're 
one step away from having to shut it down." The former principal 
of Hill High School, Williams is particularly troubled over the dearth 
of student volunteers at Immanuel and in the greater New Haven 
community. "Students• agendas tend to follow their parents• agendas," 
he said. "rm hopeful we can build a model for students here to carry 
on the Immanuel mission after us!' 

N 
ow THE DIRECTOR OF HiGH ScHooL L'ISTRUcnoN for New 
Haven Public Schools, Deacon Williams is one of a number of 
prominent parishioners in the New Haven community. Members 
and non-members of Immanuel refer to congregants as New Haven's 
"black bourgeois," pointing to members Brian Perkins. President of the 
New Haven School Board, Alvin Johnson, a top executive at Yale-N~w 
.. Haven Hospital, and Reggie Mayo, New Haven School Superintendent. 
The "well-to-do" label has stuck with Immanuel over the years. "It's 
just been the rubric it bears." says Rev. Cofield. 

Some at Immanuel embrace this characterization. "That's who we 
are," Jonathan Berryman admits matter-of-factly. Immanuel•s Minister 
of Music, Berryman graduated from Princeton in 1994 before attending 
Yale for his master's degree in sacred music. For Berryman, Immanuel 
is a place where New Haven's "upwardly-mobile" young African 
Americans can "identify with our peers." 

On the Sunday before we spoke, Rev. Ross-Lee welcomed a 
young couple, Ronald Sullivan. Jr. and Stephanie Robinson, as new 
31 

--- Page 32 ---

~ ... 
...... . 
parishioners. Sullivan met Ross-Lee at Morehouse before heading 
to Harvard, where he and Robinson :1ttcnded law school while the 
Reverend got his theology degree. Sullivan is now a professor at Yale 
Law School. Robinson, formerly an aide to Senator Edward Kennedy, 
is~ now in private practice. Rev. Ross-Lee considers Immanuel a "pretty 
~epresentative microcosm" of New Ha,·en's black community, though 
he concedes, "I don't think it's inaccurate to call it middle-class or well-
established." 

, 
Most Immanuel parishioners acknowledge their relative affluence 
in New Haven's black community, but few believe the socioeconomic 
divide has interfered with the church's egalitarian goals. "I guess you 
c.ould say we're middle class," says Diane Petaway, a parishioner since 
the 1980s. But if there's a gap between Immanuel and the rest of the 
community, she says, "1 don't see it." For Petawa} and, indeed, probably 
most parishioners, Immanuel is a "warm, open church [that] makes 
.people feel at home, no matter who they are." 

Back at the soup kitchen, the view isn't so rosy. The latest 
,controversy stems from a decision ro allow Immanuel parishioners 
to get take-out-trays from the Soup Kitchen after worship lets out at 
one o'clock-half an hour before ~ew ~ Iaven's hungry are admitted. 
The result is a two-tiered system allowing Immanuel moms to grab 
some snacks to tide their kids over for the drive home while the hungry 
homeless wait outside in the cold. Brown, Grinvalsky and some other 
volunteers believe it is unfair for "church members to be served 
b~fore those down on their luck." There is "no interaction between 
parishioners and those who aren't," says Brown. ''They won't sit down 
to eat with the non-members, they just get their take-out tray and go." 

Grinvalsky and Brown believe the} represent a minority viewpoint 
at the Immanuel Soup Kitchen: "Those who haven't been doing it for 
a long time don't see it like we do," says Brown. And the soup kitchen's 
customers don't seem to be complaining; David Holland, a Vietnam 
veteran 'vith mental health problems, called the soup kitchen "a 
blessing" that allows him to eat a good meal without having to "collect 
empties." 

Reverend Cofield echoes Brown and Grinvalsky's sentiments. 
Asked if he thinks Immanuel is doing enough to help the community, 
~v. Cofield bluntly replies, ''No, I don't. I don't think it's on the agenda, 
but I don't know why." lie is not alone. Deacon William Knox, who has 
coordinated the Soup Kitchen for the past ten years, and worshipped 
at Immanuel for thirty, agrees that there has been a deficiency of civic-
mindedness at Immanuel in recent years. "You can't just join the church 
~o be a spectator," he says. ''You have to participate. You have to give 
something up." 

Born into "Jim Crow South" fifty years ago, Deacon Knox had 
to "go to the back door to get something to cat." Part of his duty as a 
Christian, he says, is to "be able to gi,·e something back, to empower 
somebod}' else," and he JS frustrated that more people don't share his 
philosophy. Knox speaks of a "culture of plenty" that has stripped 
society in general, and the congregation in particular, of its moral 
eurpose: "Kids see a car, a TV, some shoes that they don't have, and 
they're taught that they need those things." The effect, Knox says, is 
tpat "we aren't concerned about social things anymore." 

He is deeply frustrated by how far the church has drifted from its 
founding tenets: "People used to walk to Immanuel, but now the}' drive. 
32 
They don't see what goes on here anymore-murder, rape, prostitution, 
drug-dealing. The young men in this neighborhood are either dead or 
in jail--or on their way. The church is not involved in reaching out to 
them. We really haven't done enough." 

Rev. Ross-Lee agrees that his church can and should do more for 
the rest of 
ew Haven. "Our middle-class comfort has blunted our 
prophetic edge," be suggested. "In our contentment, we have become 
less noticing of social needs." Like Knox, he decries the consumerism 
that he believes pervades the African-American culture. He asks, "Why 
are we such a consumer culture as opposed to a builder culture? We 
need to be investors, in the Clinronian sense; we need to invest in 
people." For Ross-Lee, it's not a question of making more monc), but 
of "using the economic strength we already have, which is considerable, 
in a way that is ultimately helpful to the community." Pointing out that 
blacks comprise seventy percent of Seagram's consumer base, Ross-
Lee believes Bill Cosby was "on to something" when he criticized 
blacks for their spending habits: "Instead of making alcohol companies 
rich, we should be building economic and educational opportunities 
community-wide in a significant way." The church, he argues, must be a 
vehicle for constructive change. 

Ross-Lee echoes Hen[} Louis Gates' idea of "two black Americas." 
To Ross-Lee, the dozen black churches in Greater New Haven do not 
bode weU for the community. They are indicative of "the fragmentation 
of the black communit}•" along socioeconomic lines. "Povert}' is at 
our doorstep every Sunday," Re,·. Ross-Lee says, referring to the Soup 
Kitchen. "But po,·erty toda} has a Reaganesque meaning: People are 
poor because they're not working hard enough. Pm·erty is not about 
drugs or alcohol or abuse anymore, but about personal responsibility. 
We as a black community have bought into this." 

In 2003, Ross-Lee began asking Immanuel church-goers every 
Sunday to leave five do!Jars in a special donation box for the United 
Negro Co!Jege Fund (UNCF). After the first year of this project, 
Immanuel Baptist had raised $30,000 for UNCF. "If every one did this," 
Ross-Lee says with a smile, "pretty soon [Yale Uni,·ersity Prestdent) 
Rick Levin would be at UNCF trying to borrow money." 

A pillar of the New J Iaven black communi(}•, Immanuel is 
beginning to suffer from an institutional inertia. In the words of its 
pastor, the church is "old, traditional and slow-moving." Its history 
has left the congregation "self-satisfied." But, Ross-Lee recognizes 
his responsibility to "shake (the church) from that complacency," 
a task he takes on in his Sunda} sermons. "He that overcometh 
shall inherit all things," booms Rev. Ross-Lee from the pulpit, as he 
urges his church to once again become a bridge between New Havcn's 
privileged and its poor, a buttress of unity in the black ~_ommunit)', not 
a barrier to it. ... 

Zarh fonts is a .unior in Dat'tnport Colkgt. 
The New Journal 


**The Curious Case of George Stubbs' Drawings**
**Author: Adriane Quinlan**
**Page number(s): 33**

Bl980.1.1-.130 
"A Comparative Anatomical Ex-
position of a Human Body with 
that of a Tiger and a 
Common 
Fowl." 
By George Stubbs 
Flip past the first four 
drawings. 
There. 
Right 
there. These are the last 
works 
ever 
drawn 
by 
George Stubbs. There is a 
tiger crawling elegantly and 
a man, his sinews splayed 
for view. In 1795, Stubbs 
was 71-years-old. He was 
already a prominent painter 
of horses, but he wanted to 
try something different. He 
was an anatomist by trade 
and his last drawings show 
it. What you see comprised 
his 
final 
treatise, 
"A 
Comparative 
Anatomical 
Exposition of a Human 
Body with that of a Tiger 
and a Common Fowl." 

Look at how the tiger 
resembles the man. Look 
at how the man bends like 
the tiger. Stubbs drew these 
to show people that there is 
an innate, shared structure 
between all living things. 

After his death, Stubbs' 
wife sold the drawings, 
which 
changed 
hands 
several times and traveled 
the world for the better 
part of the next century, 
until 
1863 
when 
they 
landed in the Worcester, 
cr Free Public l.Jbrary. 
106 years later, in 1957, 
a Worcester librarian busied herself with a 
vast re-cataloguing project. She uncovered 
the original drawings, penciled by Stubbs. 
But what was the library to do with a lot of 
famous drawings? The Worcester Free Library 
didn't have a way to restore them or keep the 
valuable artWorks safe. 

Enter Paul Mellon. In 1980, the Yale 
millionaire 
bought 
the 
drawings 
from 
Worcester to dorute to his pet project, the 
Yale Center for British Art (YCBA). Mellon 
was pushing a great deal of money toward the 
new building, which would become a cathedraJ 
to his vast collection of British works. An avid 
equestrian, Mr. Mellon was obsessed with 
Stubbs. He left the library $1.25 million for the 
horse painter's final drawings. 

iled 
By Adriane Quinlan 
Though the town of \Vorcester could 
never ha,·e dreamt of. being offered such a 
sum, the people of Worcester agreed the town 
shouJdn't take it. "We feel that the art was 
given to the city and it belongs to the citizens 
of the city," wrote Joan Gallant in an angry 
Worcester Sun~ T~ltgram column vehemently 
titled, "Money in the bank, Drawings in 
Boxes, and neither can be touched." A letter 
to the editor a week later ran the headline 
"Sale of Stubbs Drawings is Unfortunate," 
and professed that the donor's will had "been 
betrayed." By leaving the artworks to a public 
library, the townspeople felt that Dr. Green had 
wanted the drawings to be easily accessible tb 
Worcester citizens. Instead, some out-of-town 
millionaire rolled in to snatch them up and catt 
them away. The town lobbied 
against the sale, even forming 
a committee called, "Save-Our-
Stubbs," which hoped to raise 
enough money to take Mellon to 
court. It never happened. 

The citizens who spoke 'tO 
save these pieces didn't know 
their value until after they were 
purchased. And how could tHey 
have? Andrew Wilton, then 
curator of Prints and Drawings 
at YCBA, noted that the library 
hadn't taken good care of their 
treasures: ''lJ.l those years in 
musty storage at the Worcester 
Public 
Library 
didn't 
help 
matters. Some have mold, some 
are foxing. some are brittle, some 
are fastened to heavy mounting 
boards, which will have to be 
removed. All need cleaning--a 
very touchy process, especially 
with pencil drawings." 

But now, even after a 
thorough 
cleaning at Yale's 
sterile 
conservation 
lab 
on 
the museum's third floor, tb'e 
drawings remain out of sight. 
"They are hiding in boxes, 
too fragile to see the light Of 
day," lamented one WorceSter 
reporter. Wilton admitted sadly 
that the works '\.vill spend 
the better part of their days in 
boxes" because of their fragil'e 
condition: "That is the fate ·of 
old drawings." 

After conservation, the drawmgs were 
given acquisition numbers--a tracking de'1ce 
for every work in the collection--and @eo 
in the large, wooden card catalogue in the 
from of the department. Today, Scott \X'ilcox, 
Wuton's replacement as curator, can "pull" 
the drawings for viewers to examine under 
the amber lights of the Pnnts and Drawings 
reading room. When the drawings are no longer 
needed, they are tucked back on a shelf and 
locked in a cupboard, where the) someomes 
wait for months until they are seen again. 

33 



**Title: ~996.~.275 "Hooky Walker 1 1"**
**Author: Frederick Lancier**
**Page number(s): 34**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
~996.~.275 
"Hooky Walker 1 1" 
by Frederick Lancier 
The Prints and Drawings room doesn't usually receive generous 
donations of rare drawings. Mostly, explains Wilcox, the department 
fields a lot of calls from "people who want to give you things, like a 
little print they found in their grandmother's attic." Like Paul Mellon, 
donors want to get a tax break, they want to get rid of a work, and 
they want to donate to their alma mater. "But 99 percent of the time a 
donation is of no great significance." 

Wilcox doesn't need to tell me about this 99 percent I've been 
shuffling through them for four months. As student assistant for the 
Prints and Drawings Department, I have grown used to violent hunting 
scenes (we call them "sporting prints"), bored aristocrats ("portraits"), 
and prim classical gardens ("landscapes'). It is my distinct privilege to 
enter into the museum's computer database a litany of dull information 
on works that seem to simply appear here. 

On my first day as a YCBA assistant, Tim Goodhue, the art registrar 
in charge of keeping track of museum acquisitions, had some bad news. 
He had discovered over twelve hundred un-accessioned prints-seven 
uncovered black boxes filled with folders of around 170 prints and 
drawings that had been lost in storage for eight years. 

Some of the folders housed fashion plates, some showcased 
political cartoons. On a dull Tuesday, four hours into weighing the 
differences between aquatint and mezzotint portraits, I came across 
one piece that made me laugh out loud. A tiny monkey looked out at 
me, his hand stretched open in cruel glee. Below him, the inscription 
read: "Hooky Walker!!" (exclamation points included). The magnifying 
glass revealed the crazed animal to be the work of Frederick Lancier, 
who engraved it some time around 1827. I showed the print to Phil, the 
department's assistant curator, who has been looking at art for thirteen 
years. He laughed out loud too. Phil's internet search revealed "hooky 
walker" to be a Victorian expression for something extraordinary and 
unnecessary. Then he printed out his internet search results and filed 
them away in a docket for artwork 1996.1.215 that may never again be 
opened. 


**Title: Manuscript (f ()) 2~.7.76 "Fortifications of the Isle of Wight**
**Author: John Gomme**

Manuscript (f ()) 
2~.7.76 
"Fortifications of the Isle of Wight 
N 
by John Gomme 
On the upper level of the Rare Books Department, buried in a 
long, flat drawer that you'll need a key to open, boxes and boxes of 
crumbling maps await unfurling fingertips. 

The maps look 
nothing like the world we know today: they show dramatic geometric 
fortifications and isles curving in the wrong directions. They are fragile 
and undependable. They are useless and beautiful. 

These maps first belonged to a boy my age. At 19, George Legge 
became Captain of the Pembroke sailing vessel. In 1682, he was named 
Baron of Dartmouth, and in 1683, he was given command of an entire 
British expedition to the far-off island of Tangier. During his voyages, 
he enlisted fleets of cartographers to draw alongside his fleets of boats. 
His early efforts resulted in a vast collection for his nation, which he 
bequeathed to every future Baron of Dartmouth. 

After many successful missions, Legge returned to London to take 
up the lofty position of "Master of the Horse and Governor of the 
Tower of London." When William of Orange invaded Britain, Legge 
was imprisoned in his own tower, where, in 1691, he died of apoplexy. 
The maps stayed in the family until the 1960s, when a dying aristocracy 
sold them at auction. The British Museum competed with a private 
dealer for the maps and the dealer walked away with a significant 
portion of the collection. 

When Elisabeth Fairman , a curator at YBAC, put together a show 
of maps in the early '90s, she invited a correspondent from the British 
Museum, who was very surprised to find the Legge maps. Neither the 
dealer nor the auction house had said anything to either museum about 
the split-up; they had each been looking for the missing maps for years. 
"So here's an example of a very large collection for a single person 
that got divided up in two museums," Fairman says, looking across the 
solitary maps; as if towards a slim, lonesome arrow pointing across 
oceans toward its brethren, nestled in twin boxes somewhere in Britain. 
"They had no idea we had anything." 


**Title: B2003.~4 "The Sinews of Old England**
**Author: George Hicks**

B2003.~4 
"The Sinews of Old England 
H 
by George Hicks 
Up on the second floor, on a wall of the Prints and Drawings Reading 
Room, hiding beneath a screen to protect it so the natural light couldn't 
fade it, hangs a watercolor by George Hicks. The painting depicts two 
peasants standing in the doorway, their son playing at their feet. "Look 
at the little boy-it's just wonderful," sighed Wilcox, who is the reason 
the painting is hanging in the museum at all. 

Wilcox first saw "The Sinews of Old England" in London , where 
he often travels to scout for works of art to acquire for the museum's 
collection. He spotted it at Rupert Moss' gallery, and was "very keen on 
it." He and his coworker Tim Barringer , an art history professor, fell in 
love with the painting. "It is very beautiful," Wilcox said, momentarily 
mesmerized. But for whatever reason, the third party on their trip, 
Malcolm Warner, the curator of paintings at the time, detested it. 
"Oh, Malcolm hates genre paintings," Gillian Forrester, Wilcox's 
co-worker interrupts. "He always has." When the two proponents went 
into a curatorial committee, a group that meets monthly to decide 
how to handle the museum's funds and discuss proposed acquisitions, 
Warner's dislike for the painting "killed it in committee." In the world 
of acquisitions, one man's opinion can sway a museum's collections. 

Still, Wilcox remained hopeful. 

A few months later, Barringer was in New York giving a lecture on 
Victorian painting at Christie's. He showed a slide of the painting that 
he and Wilcox had loved. After the talk, a Connecticut collector of 
Victorian paintings who had been in the audience went up the street 
to an art fair. The collector must have gasped: it was the same work 
from the talk he had just attended. Mr. Moss had sold the painting to 
the private collector, and Wilcox thought sadly, "Well, that's the end of 
that." 

But about a year ago, while skimming through a sales catalog, 
Wilcox came across a photograph of the painting he had pined after. 
This time, Warner was no longer working for the museum, and the price 
of the painting was about half what Moss asked for during the height 
of the market's craze for Victorian Genre paintings. (Andrew Lloyd 
Weber's collecting frenzy had driven prices up, Forrester explained-he 
was buying anything available at any cost.) The museum acquired the 
work, and every so often when he thinks no one is looking, Wilcox will 
lift the screen tenderly to sneak a peek at the painting it took him so 
long to buy. 
The New Journal 


**Title: "A Turner"**
**Author: John Anderson**
**Page number(s): 35**

"A Turner" 
by John Anderson 
You won't find these drawings in museums. They're not hanging grandly 
in the library court or packed tightly into dark boxes in the Prints and 
Drawings Department. They are filed as phone conversations, ideas 
that were never realized, doodles on a yellow legal pad. 

About once a month someone calls the center because they've just 
found a drawing by J.M.W. Turner. It came from their grandmother's 
attic, from the flea market down the street. Their voices quake in 
anticipation! They are heady with their attic find! It says "Turner" right 
on the back! 

Wilcox is on the other end of the line, because another part of his 
job, besides touring England for paintings or planning shows years in 
advance, is handling the misinformed. "Are there any penciled arrows 
on the drawing?" he'll ask a caller, rolling his eyes and doodling absent-
mindedly on a legal pad. "Is there a plaque on the back of the frame 
with the name 'John Anderson'?" Yes, they'll reply. Yes. Yes. Yes. 
"Well," Wilcox sighs, preparing to repeat the speech he gives 
monthly. "What you've got there is a fake. It's not really a Turner. 
It's a John Anderson 'Turner.'" Then he tells them a little story: John 
Anderson is dead now, but one hundred years ago he traveled the 
British countryside buying up amateur drawings which he claimed to 
be the works of J.M.W. Turner. Anderson professed to believe the 
drawings contained hidden Turner signatures and he penciled in arrows 
to help people find them. "I'm not sure the extent to which Anderson 
saw it as a genius scheme or whether he actually succeeded in deluding 
himself," Wilcox chuckles. Anderson sold his "Turners" to the only 
outlet that would accept them: department stores. Today, the fakes 
circulate through hundreds of attics and flea markets to be dug up by 
the next generation of starry-eyed sleuths, who, ten years down the 
road, will telephone Wilcox to ask again. 


**Title: "Steamboat in a Storm"**
**Author: Anonymous**

"Steamboat in a Storm" 
Anonymous. 
Ten years ago, a New York couple called up with another Turner 
watercolor. A jaded Wilcox employed the same set of questions, but 
the couple who had called couldn't find any pencil marks and there 
certainly wasn't the Anderson plate on the back. Could this really be a 
Turner? When the clients sent the department a set of photographs of 
their watercolor, Wilcox was "flabbergasted .... It was exactly the same 
as the Turner in our collection," he spouted. The curators looked at the 
photograph alongside their original "Steamboat in a Storm," from 1851. 
How could it be? "We joked about how he could have snuck in and 
photographed it, but also along with that discussion, we talked about 
how ridiculous that would be. Really, it was a matter of coincidence." 

With "a little digging around," Wilcox found that the original Turner 
had been in the collection of John Ruskin and that a student of Ruskin's 
had copied the Turner watercolor to the last flawless brushstroke as an 
exercise. Gleeful with his findings, Wilcox called the New Yorkers back 
with the exciting news and invited them to bring their watercolor over 
to compare the twin works side by side. The museum even expressed an 
interest in acquiring the copy for educational purposes. Wilcox wanted 
to see the works side by side, but the owners of the other painting never 
February 2005 
replied. "They were probably so pissed that it wasn't an actual Turner, 
that they had asked us at all," Wilcox said briskly. 


**Title: "Mountain Scene in Wales"**
**Author: Thomas Girtin**

"Mountain Scene in Wales " 
by Thomas Girtin 
"There was a perfect Girtin painting," Wilcox begins, "called 'Mountain 
Scene in Wales .' And all the British museums had refused the asking 
price, which was far too high." If he stresses this step in the process, 
it is because if a work is deemed "culturally significant" by British 
authorities, it can be shipped to a seller overseas only when all national 
buyers cannot afford it. Only then does the sale receive an "export 
license," a word that makes the curators here cringe. 

Though the museum craved the painting, they simply could not 
afford it, Wilcox says: "We also refused the asking price, and made an 
offer of less than half the original price." The seller on the other end 
of the line pretended to be appalled, but eventually returned Wilcox's 
call. "I remember our old director was practically cracking out the 
champagne. But our export license was stopped. At the new, lower 
price, other museums could match the bid." 

It's difficult to be a British museum outside of Britain . It's a very 
strange situation really, because when Wilcox thinks how bad he wanted 
that painting, and thinks of where it ended up, he can't feel angry. "It's 
hanging on the wall at the National Museum of Wales," where, Wilcox 
shrugs, "I suppose it belongs." 


**Title: 2004.1.19 "Windowscape"**

2004.1.19 
"Windowscape " 
Anonymous 

When I first ambled through the British Arts Center , I didn't know any 
of this. It was just a museum, and the paintings were just pictures on 
the wall. It was my first year at Yale and it was winter and the sky was 
cold and empty. I had come with a friend, and together we toured the 
entire museum. 

The room we saved for last contained a Turner. I paused and 
studied it. I didn't really know who Turner was. This work showed a sky 
sloshing about, mixing and swirling together. I didn't know anything 
about the painting, or how it had gotten here, or who had owned 
it before. I only knew that it had ended up here because it was just 
beautiful. 

"Hey, look at this," my friend prodded, calling me away. Three feet 
to my right, a plate-glass window stretched from the floor to the ceiling, 
overlooking the intersection outside the museum. It was snowing, 
everything mixing and swirling together. It was the first snow, and its 
whiteness hid the sooty street entirely. There was no story behind it. 
It was just beautiful. Everything in the street was white, like paper, 
exactly as the world in the painting. 
Adriane Quinlan, a sophomore in Calhoun College, is the Production 
Manager of TNY. 


**Title: Untitled**
**Page number(s): 36-37**

LIKE MANY of the illicit love affairs that 
happen at Yale, my relationship with 
Connecticut Post Mall began one night 
at Toad's Place. Or, more precisely, behind 
Toad's, on a bench where I had sought refuge 
from the blistering winter winds. That night 
marked the first true snowfall of the season, 
and I, a naive freshman transplant from 
Arizona, had been caught woefully unprepared 
in my light tweed jacket. Overwhelmed by 
cold and exhaustion on the walk to Stiles, I 
collapsed into a heap of tears, frozen soot, 
and scantily covered limbs. As I trembled and 
curled my numb toes into my strappy heels, 
I murmured to myself two affirmations: one, 
Connecticut was by far the worst state I had 
ever lived in (and, as a former military brat, 
I've lived in quite a few), and two, I needed to 
buy a real coat. 

At the time, however, Trailblazer was 
still daunting to my "West Coast" sensibility 
(What is this "North Face?" I often wondered 
amid a sea of fleeces), and Urban Outfitters 
had already failed me with its prioritizing 
of flower appliques and "vintage" (read: 
threadbare) fabrics over actual warmth. I had 
heard vague references to a nearby mall, but 
I didn't know anyone who had actually ever 
been to Connecticut Post, or anyone with 
a car. 

Two days, a hunt for a bus schedule, 
and a cashed check later, I climbed aboard 
a blue CT-Transit bus on the corner of 
Temple and Elm, "J-7 Milford" flashing 
on the front of the bus in tiny lights. 
I sat in the front seat---a spot which, 
according to the sign posted above, I 
would have to relinquish to the elderly 
or disabled---and primly clutched my 
purse, scanning the bus for fellow 
Yalies. None present. 

"This route ends at Connecticut 
Post Mall, right?" I asked the driver. I 
felt like I was being escorted to a blind 
date. 

"Bingo," he said, yanking the 
door lever. An hour later, I stepped 
off the bus and faced my destination. 
It was hardly love at first sight. The 
entrance was like a prison door, 
industrial gray and beige. A fat toddler 
with chocolate smeared on his cheeks 
waddled out of the door, and a lonely 
plastic shopping bag flew toward me 
like tumbleweed. I shivered. 

I stalled for a few minutes and then I 
breached the doors. Almost instantly, I was 
overwhelmed by a familiar sense of calm. On 
that initial journey, I purchased a coat, a pair 
of gloves, and a Christmas present for my 
aunt. Two weeks later, I was back on the bus 
with the gloves and the receipt to exchange 
them. The following week I returned again, 
and before I knew it, the occasional outing had 
evolved into a habit. Eventually, my presence 
on the J-7 was routine enough to merit nods 
from the other regulars. 

From the outset, I knew that one of the 
reasons the mall appealed to me so intensely 
was its ability to provide anonymity. At Yale, 
one loses the ability to walk down a crowded 
street without being assailed by a barrage of 
smiles, greetings, and brief conversations. 
While the omnipresence of familiar faces can 
be pleasant, it can also be something 
undeniably liberating about 
being among a mass of complete strangers. 

Inside Connecticut Post's automatic doors, 
I liked to perch on the benches and people-
watch, or wander through Sears while busy 
shoppers swarmed around me. Possés of 
Abercrombie-clad high school girls eyed me 
cattily, thugged-out pre-teens toting Foot 
Locker bags swaggered by my bench, genteel 
old men asked me for the time, and I loved 
it. Fleeting, unlikely interactions between 
strangers abound at the mall, and I sought 
them out voraciously. 

I began to depend on CT Post as a sort of 
fix, or a break from the real world. At the time, 
I couldn't rationalize my habit; the anonymity 
was nice, but I could have easily found it at 
other places. Something about the mall was 
strangely and inexplicably addictive, like 
the overpowering smell of gasoline. As any 
couple's therapist can tell you, however, a 
relationship based on reliance can veer down 
one of two paths: stable commitment, 
and paranoia. Progressively, my 
attachment grew to resemble the 
attraction-like and I





**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Mina Kimes**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
playing jealous lover of a non-human 
entity. 

The sight of another possible Yale 
student stepping onto the J-7 Milford caused 
my heart to skip an anxious beat, rousing my 
apprehension that my trip would be ruined 
by the presence of an acquaintance. These 
fears were 6nally realized a couple months 
after my initial visit, at which point the mall 
and I progressed beyond mere flirtation to a 
full-fledged relationship. I was leaning over a 
counter in the food court, lustfully watching 
my (thankfully not Thai, Indian, or Thai-Indian 
fusion) orange chicken as it was smeared into a 
Styrofoam bowl, when the customer to my left 
poked me on the shoulder. 
"Davenport, right?" she asked. 
·~ ... yeah." I glanced longingly at my 
chicken, now waiting for me by the register. 
"Cool, cool. It's always good to see a 
fellow Yalie outside of New Haven." 
I nodded aod stalled, hoping she wouldn't 
wait for me, but she stood by the cashier, 
expectandy sipping her soda. After hesitating 
for an awkward moment, I paid for my food, 
and we walked together to a nearby table. 
"God, Panda Express is disgusting," she 
said after we sat down, stabbing her Mongolian 
egetables with a plastic fork. "Like, what is 
· ? De6nitely not Chinese." 
"Oh, it's Pandanese." I hoped a stupid 
oke would scare her away. 
She paused uncertainly for a second, then 
~ ontinued. "So what brings you here?" 
I opened the plastic top of my bowl, and 
steam poured out. "Oh ... you know .... " 
''Yeah, de6nitely. Only having Urban 
Out6tters in New Haven can be such a drag 
sometimes. Like, it gets a litde old when every 
girl at a party is wearing that 'Everybody Loves 
a Randomly Ethnic Girl' shirt." She reached 
into ber jean pocket and pulled out a creased 
~beet of paper. "I actually brought a list of 
}>resents I need to buy, but I can't find them 
anywhere in this dirt hole. Like I want to buy a 
set of headphones for-" 
''Well, there's a Radio Shack on the 6rst 
oor, by Sears." 
She raised her eyebrows. "Oh yeah? Know 
ere I can find a UConn jersey?" 
"Champs. Second floor." 
"How about wrapping paper? And I'm 
t sure I brought enough money." 
"There's a Hallmark ... and a Fleet A TM is 
t around here, by the food coun." 
"Geez." She folded her list and put it 
ck in her pocket. "How often do you come 
I shrugged. ''I dunno ... maybe twice, three 
times a month. Depends on my workload." . 
''You like shopping that much?" 
''Well .... " Good question. I hadn't actually 
purchased anything on three out of my last 
four trips, so what the hell was I doing here? 
I decided to lie. "Uh, yeah. I guess I'm a 
shopaholic." I cringed. 
She nodded knowingly. "Sometimes you 
gotta get your Abercrombie 6x." 
After we parted ways (she, to buy gifts, 
me, to spy on the awkward salespeople at 
the cellular phone kiosk), her question rested 
uncomfortably in my mind. Why was I so 
infatuated with this place? As I stumbled to 
the escalator, intoxicated by contemplation, 
the artifice of the environment suddenly 
suffocated me--the soft drone of peoples' 
voices, the harsh, neon lighting, the stuffy air 
conditioning. I felt dizzy. I unwound my scarf 
so I could breathe, and leaned against the wall 
of Subway. As the sight of the familiar logo, I 
smiled, remembering how I had once argued 
with one of my friends over where to get 
sandwiches. 
"What's wrong with Subway?" I had asked 
her. I had a frequent buyer's punch card. 
"Mega-bland 
corporate 
evil 
aside, 
hometown places are always better. Everyone 
knows that." 
HomekJwn. I had scoffed at the notion 
at the time, but the memory of my friend's 
comment stirred me. I stepped back from the 
Subway sign, moved by a sudden epiphany. 
I didn't come to the mall because of the 
shopping, or the anonymity, or even the 
refuge it offered me from problem sets and 
course packets. I was addicted to it because 
of its familiarity. For me---'.1 member of an 
Air Force family, the permanent New Girl 
and wearied occupant of several stat~s before 
entering high school-"bome" was more of 
an abstract concept than a place. If its inherent 
significance is its consistency, then home was 
never an address or a city for me; it was my 
parents' station wagon coasting down the 
interstate, the books I pored over in the car, 
and my brother snoring with his face smashed 
against the seat belt. Home was Motel Six, 7-
11, Starbucks, and Payless: and however mega-
bland it may be, home was Subway. 
Growing up, each new "hometown" 
presented me with a new set of faces, streets, 
and rules to learn. In Arizona, a glass of Coca-
Cola is a "pop"; if you call it anything but a 
"soda" in Virginia, you sound like an idiot. We 
bought our groceries at Kroger in Nebraska, 
Meijer's in Michigan, and Giant in V uginia. 
As an adolescent, it's dif6cult enough to face 
~ 
each coming day with the fear of changed :.: 
body parts; compound that with a constant·~ 
incursion of new places and people, and my 
prepubescent existence began to look a lot 
like Heraclitus' river of 6ux. Throughout my 
childhood, I was willing to accept whatever life 
preservers were tossed my way, even if they 
were stamped with national brand names. The 
effect of which, apparendy, was my ability to 
find solace in the dim glow of a shopping mall, 
the bastion of American commercialism. 
My newfound awareness of the root of 
my addiction began to make me uneasy. In my 
desperate efforts to cling to some vestige of 
my childhood, had I become the poster child 
for "mega-bland corporate evil?" Was CT Post 
bad? Was my lover evil? 
Shaken by this unsetding notion, I decided 
to leave the mall, once and for all. I hurried 
to get out, hoping to catch an early bus back 
to Yale. Shoppers, store fronts, and kiosks 
whizzed by me unnoticed, but I paused wheh 
I glimpsed a photo booth near the exit. One 
last toss in the hay, J thought to myself, for old 
times' sake. 
While posing behind the musty red 
curtains of the photo booth, I mused over the 
past few months, mentally cueing a montage of 
myself frolicking through CT Post's corridorS, 
my hands loaded with stuffed bags and Auntie 
Anne's pretzels while geode muzak tinkled in 
the background. The click of the camera jolted 
me out of my daydream, and I crossed my eyes 
and stuck my tongue out. You're breaking up 
for the right reasons, I reassured mysel£ Has 
your liberal education taught you nothing, if 
not to hate The Man? 
I stepped outside and waited for the 
filmstrip of four poses to develop. The machine 
whirred softly for a second, then spat out my 
pictures through a slot. In the last three shots, 
I was making silly faces and obscene gestures; 
the first one, however, was taken before I was 
ready. In it, I looked utterly serene. 
I stuffed the pictures into my purse and 
hurried to the exit, knowing it wouldn't be 
long before I returned. I knew my relationship 
was hardly healthy, and that eventually I would 
need to move past the images of my transient 
childhood. I also knew, however, that CT Post 
seemed to possess the capacity to make me 
happy. Explicable or not, for a mere $1.25 in 
bus fare I could buy a few hours of bliss-
well worth its generic, artificial packaging. -
Mina Kime~ a sophomtm in Davtnport College, is 
on the •ta.ff of TN]. 


**Title: Thus Spake Zarathustra?**
**Author: Jamie Martin**
**Page number(s): 38**

A
T YALE YOU CAN STUDY ZOOLOGY, use a zymoscope, research 
Zwinglianism and hang out at Zeta Psi. You can even meet a 
Zoroastrian! Although Zoroastrians don't sponsor dances, put 
full page ads in the YDN advertising the tenets of their religion or even 
have an organized group. Zoroastrianism doesn't have a low profile at 
Yale just because of its small following. The reason for its obscurity is 
more complex. 

When I first met Yale College's sole Zoroastrian, Nazneen Mehta, 
I assumed she would be bristling with ideas about how to give her 
religion a larger presence on campus, or how, at the very 
least, it could be recognized. Given its distinction 
as the world's first monotheistic religion 
and its huge influence on other faiths, 
Zoroastrianism seems to have a claim 
for integration into Yale's religious 
scene, even if Mehta is one of two 
Zoroastrians here. 

But Mehta, who describes 
herself as "deeply religious," 
is perfectly happy being a 
minority with no support 
or recognition from her 
University. Even if Yale were 
teeming with Zoroastrians, 
Mehta 
can't 
think 
of 
anything they would ask of 
the University. 

Zoroastrianism, as I came 
to learn, is both a faith and 
an 
intellectual 
discipline. 
The religion emphasizes free 
will 
and demands rigorous 
examination of one's actions 
to 
determine 
whether 
they 
accord with good or with evil. 
Zoroastrianism emphasizes moral 
action and personal responsibility much 
more heavily than doctrine or outward 
signs of piety. While it would be nice to be 
able to meet other Zoroastrians, Mehta says, 
their presence at Yale would not affect how she 
practices her religion. 

This is not a public religion: in fact, conversion is impossible--one 
must be born a Zoroastrian to be a Zoroastrian-and, according to 
Mehta, Zoroastrians do not require the sort of "group therapy" that 
is a significant draw of many of Yale's religious groups: "While there's 
merit in groups and safe places for discussion and development," 
Mehta says, "I don't need a space or a club but simply other people's 
understanding and respect of my way of life." But doesn't every Yalie 
want a club? Mehta was adamant the intensely personal and intellectual 
. 38 
by Jamie Martin 
focus of her religion makes it irrelevant whether or not any Zoroastrian 
groups exist here. 

Avisa Demehri, the other Zoroastrian on campus, confirmed 
Mehta's synopsis. Demehri, a graduate student in Yale's School of 
Epidemiology & Public Health and an Iranian Zoroastrian, had virtually 
the same answers to my questions and had no idea another Zoroastrian 
even existed on campus. Demehri has not had Zoroastrian friends since 
moving to the United States. When people learn she's from Iran, she 
doesn't even bother to dispel their assumptions that she is Muslim. 

But, she told me, it's not difficult to be the only Zoroastrian 
she knows. Nor is there anything that could be done at 
Yale to make her life easier as a Zoroastrian-no 
organization, sacred space, magazine, or website 
would make any difference at all. The only 
thing that might help, she admitted, would be 
a course at Yale about Zoroastrianism that 
would teach others that an Iranian need not 
be a Muslim, nor an Indian be a Hindu. 

Professor Stanley Insler, a philologist 
and expert on Sanskrit, Ancient Persian, 
and Avesta, the holy language of 
Zoroastrianism, 
has in fact 
taught 
courses here at Yale on Zoroastrianism. 
'There really should be more classes 
on Zoroastrianism at Yale," he said. 
"It is probably the oldest living faith 
in the world [and it] has been seminal 
for the intellectual history of the 
world." It is crucial, he explained, that 
religious people--particularly Jews and 
Christians-understand 
the 
history 
of their religion and the influence 
Zoroastrianism has had on it. Most 
Christians, he remarked, are completely 
unaware of the fact that their conceptions 
of heaven and hell have been heavily 
influenced by Zoroastrian metaphysics. 

Apart from offering classes about the 
ancient faith, what else could ¥ale do for its 
Zoroastrian population? Professor Insler looked at me 
incredulously when I asked this question: "Zoroastrians have 
a sacred space in their fire temples, where they pray. But because 
Zarathustra wanted his followers to actively fight against evil in the 
world, he equally considered the world as the larger 'sacred space' in 
which believers should practice their religion of truth tlu:ough good 
thoughts, good words and good deeds. Zoroastrianism is a religion of 
action. The real ritual ground is the whole world." 

-
Jamie Martin is on staff of TN]. 
The New Journal 



--- Page 39 ---

I 
~ l Uni 
ity 
Reprographics & Imaging Services 
a unit of Information Technology Services 
GRAPHIC DESIGN AND PRINTING 
FOR THE YALE COMMUNITY 
GRAPHIC DESIGN 
Books and Journals 
kleMtty programs 
Posten 
Newsletters 
C&tds and lnvftattons 
Brochures 
PRODUCTION SERVICES 
Saanntns 
Photo manlpulatton 
Dflltal output 
PIOOMadfns/edltlng 
PDF (Acrobat) Me$ 
OffSET PRIN11NG 
PHOTOCOPYING 
Black 6 white 
ft.l CDkK 
Lar&e format color 
OPTICAL CHARACftlt RECOGNJTION (OCR) 
OCR ptOCnsi"C 
Doc~ ec1ttnc 
Course pacbtstcopytllfrt de&rmce 
FINISHING AND MAIL SEIYICIS 
Env .............. 
Folclftl 
lnsertlnJ 
MacNfte -.e bind 
Manual blncll\l 
Bootdet ........ 
ManUal~ 
Lamlnltlrw 
CuttlnJI'triiiWfi'W 
,......., 
Seallftll .......... 
Mal' hMcll ... 
Custom mall ser+1ces 
MERCHANDISE STUDIO 716 861 
Custom 
MaplU 
Mousepedl 
Mup 
T•Shlrts 
Dye Wllllnl6on 
PldUfle F,..., a MoUfttlftl 
Si~Prlntlnc 
Thei'INIWu 
TrMsfer Pltnii'W 
VInyl SlpnWd. 
39 




BU~t~IT 
YOU'LL LOVE ... 
OUR BIG BURRITOS, 
---~.::...:..J TASTY TACOS, 
SUPER SALADS, 
DELICIOUS Q!.JESADILLAS, 
AND 
AWESOME NACHOS! 
NOW SERVING ... 
BEER & MARGARITAS!!! 
MON-W"ED LUNCHES ARE 10o/o OFF WITH ID 

