Publication date: [Not specified]
Volume: [Not specified]
Issue number: [Not specified]


**MASTHEAD:**
- [Not present]


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**


**ARTICLE CONTENT:**
- [No article content present on this page]


**Title: THE NEW JOURNAL**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 2**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
THE NEW JOURNAL
2
editors-in-chief 
Maya Averbuch
Caroline Sydney
 

managing editor
Isabelle Taft
senior editors
Hayley Byrnes
Kendrick McDonald 
Lara Sokoloff 
associate editors
Ruby Bilger
Joyce Guo 
Sophie Haigney
Libbie Katsev
Elena Saavedra Buckley 
copy editors
Douglas Plume
Spencer Bokat-Lindell
design editors
Chris Paolini 
Ivy Sanders-Schneider 
Edward Wang  
photo editor
Jennifer Lu
web designer
Mariah Xu
The New Journal is published five times during the academic year by The New Journal at Yale, Inc., P.O. Box 203432 Yale Station, New Haven, CT 06520. Office 
address: 305 Crown Street. All contents Copyright 2015 by The New Journal at Yale, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Reproduction either in whole or in part without 
written permission of the publisher and editors-in-chief is prohibited. While this magazine is published by Yale College students, Yale University is not responsible 
for its contents. Two thousand five hundred copies of each issue are distributed free to members of the Yale and New Haven communities. The New Journal is 
printed by Turley Publications, Palmer, MA; bookkeeping and billing services are provided by Colman Bookkeeping of New Haven. The New Journal encourages 
letters to the editor and comments on Yale and New Haven issues. Write to Editorials, 203432 Yale Station, New Haven, CT 06520. All letters for publication must 
include address and signature. We reserve the right to edit all letters for publication.


members and directors
Emily Bazelon, Peter B. Cooper, Jonathan Dach, 
Kathrin Lassila, Eric Rutkow, Elizabeth Sledge, 
Jim Sleeper, Fred Strebeigh 

advisors
Richard Bradley, Susan Braudy, Jay Carney, Joshua 
Civin, Richard Conniff,  Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, 
Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Jennifer Pitts, Julia Preston, 
Lauren Rabin, David Slifka, John Swansburg, 
Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin

friends
Michael Addison, Austin Family Fund, Steve Ballou, J. 
Neela Banerjee, Margaret Bauer, Anson M. Beard, Jr., 
Blaire Bennett, Richard Bradley, Martha Brant, Susan 
Braudy, Daniel Brook, Hilary Callahan, Jay Carney, 
Daphne Chu, Josh Civin, Jonathan  M. Clark, Con­
stance Clement,  Andy Court, Masi Denison, Albert J. 
Fox, Mrs. Howard Fox, David Freeman, Geoffrey Fried, 
Sherwin Goldman, David Greenberg, Stephen Hellman, 
Laura Heymann, Gerald Hwang, Walter Jacob, Jane 
Kamensky, Tina Kelley, Roger Kirwood, Jonathan Lear, 
Lewis E. Lehrman, Jim Lowe, E. Nobles Lowe, Daniel 
Murphy, Martha E. Neil, Peter Neil, Howard H. New­
man, Sean O’Brien, Laura Pappano, Julie Peters, Lewis 
and Joan Platt, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, Fairfax C. 
Randal, Robert Randolph, Stuart Rohrer Arleen and 
Arthur Sager, Richard Shields, W. Hampton Sides, Lisa 
Silverman, Scott Simpson, Adina Proposco and David 
Sulsman, Thomas Strong, Margarita Whiteleather, 
Blake Wilson, Daniel Yergin and Angela Stent Yergin

staff
with support from



**Title: Of a Certain Age**
**Author: Spencer Bokat-Lindell**
**Page number(s): 3**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Fake IDs remain a hallmark of campus life


**Title: For Country?**
**Author: Jane Darby Menton**

The military moves back into formation at Yale 


**Title: points of departure**
**Author: Julia Hamer-Light and Natalie Yang**
**Page number(s): 20**



**Title: The Anthropology of One**
**Author: Juliet Glazer**
**Page number(s): 4**



**Title:  (Untitled Poem)**
**Author: Malini Gandhi**
**Page number(s): 8**



**Title: Missing the Mark**
**Author: Rachel Brown**
**Page number(s): 11**



**Author: Jillian Kravatz**
**Page number(s): 12**



**Title: Manufacturing Cool**
**Author: Jordan Coley**
**Page number(s): 16**



**Title: First-Name Basis**
**Author: Caroline Sydney**
**Page number(s): 19**




**Opening the Space**
**Author: Julia Hamer-Light**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
With plaster and paint, New Haven students chronicle injustice
story and photo by Julia Hamer-Light


Ruby slowly peels the tape off her canvas, exposing 
turquoise and red between the stripes of black running down the painting. 
“I don’t usually use black because it seems too harsh, 
but this time it seemed right,” she says.
Ruby is one of eighteen New Haven high school students of color participating in Artspace’s fifteenth annual 
Summer Apprenticeship Program. Artspace is a nonprofit 
in New Haven’s Ninth Square neighborhood that connects emerging artists with audiences in the New Haven 
community. Every year brings a new topic for the apprenticeship program, and this year the aim is to include 
the young participants in a growing conversation on race 
in the American justice system. For three weeks in July, 
the students take over the gallery and turn the exhibition 
space into workshops. Some students were encouraged to 
apply to the Artspace program by teachers at their schools. 
Others saw the program advertised on the street. On the 
application form, students were asked to explain their interest in the program and whether or not their family had 
any personal encounters with the criminal justice system. 
Many of them said yes. 

Throughout the summer, I worked in the offices of 
Artspace and watched the students influence the rhythms 
and energy of the building. Earlier in the summer, a busy 
day at the gallery often meant three visitors over the 
course of one afternoon. Now, at the end of the summer while the exhibition is up, the gallery attracts around 
twenty people each day. 

The students worked with Aaron Jafferis and Dexter Singleton from New Haven’s Collective Consciousness Theatre on poetry, songs, and skits. Lead Artist Titus 
Kaphar, who received his MFA at Yale in 2006, instructed 
students in visual art. Kaphar’s own work draws on and 
reappropriates the art historical canon, often to explore 
themes of racism and black experiences.
 “The thing I am good at, if I’m good at anything, is 
helping people to take the seed of an idea, and water it, 
and grow that into a larger project,” Kaphar says of his 
teaching approach. Over the course of the program, the 
teenagers speak with ex-convicts, visit a level-four correctional facility, and learn about the history of racism and 
the criminal justice system. After each activity, they return 
to Artspace to process their experiences through art. 

Before coming up with the idea for her painting, 
Ruby recalled a day when she had gone straight from 
a correctional facility to her job at New Haven’s Union 
League Café. A morning defined by deprivation followed 
by an evening submerged in excess. The next day, she approached Kaphar with a burning idea for a new direction 
in her art. 

At the workshop, Ruby’s piece was bare except for 
a wash of indigo blue with turquoise squares here and 
there. She mentions the unexpected similarity between 
her trip to the prison and her job as a waitress. In those 
spaces, customers and prisoners both expect silence 
from her. She and Kaphar discuss the parallels between 
the men behind bars with whom she was not allowed 
to talk, and the men at tables, whom she was supposed 
to serve silently. He suggests “dichotomy” as a word to 
formulate her ideas. 
“Yeah! Like between these two worlds,” she says.
“Absolutely,” he replied. “Art is made in that space 
in between.”
In 2013, Kaphar created The Jerome Project, a series 
of ninety-nine portraits of men in the prison system 
who share the historically black name of his father. The 
students’ show shares the same name as his exhibit and 
culminated in the joint display of their work beside that 
of established artists. Kaphar’s work has always focused 
on themes of racial disparity, but only within the past 
year has it earned attention for its message.
 “A lot of people ask, ‘Do you think that your art 
can, like, change the world in a way?’” he said. “I don’t 
think that in general people walk up to a painting, and 
their lives are changed. I don’t think that that’s what 
happens. But I think that the kinds of conversations that 
happen around paintings—those can have an impact 
on society.”
On the night of the student opening, Ruby’s piece 
hung on the wall—the turquoise background now held 
concentric squares of red, purple, and grey. The black 
lines contrasted starkly with the other warmer colors. 
People trickled in before the show formally opened. By 
the time the students were performing the poetry, skits, 
and songs they had created, the room was full. 

From the front desk, I watched a crowd that far 
exceeded what I had come to expect at Artspace events 
filter through the galleries. For hours, some four hundred people from across New Haven gathered together, 
murmuring as they lingered over Ruby’s piece and over 
others, their voices rising in discussion as they left. 
-Julia Hamer-Light is a sophomore 
in Silliman College


**See Spot Think**
**Author: Natalie Yang**
**Page number(s): 6**

Even dogs take tests at Yale 

Zoe the chocolate lab stares at the two overturned 
white buckets on the other side of the room. A 
screen is placed in front of the buckets, blocking her 
view, and a treat is placed under one of the buckets. 
But which one? The dog strains against her leash, her 
tail twitching uncontrollably. As the screen rises, she 
rushes toward the buckets. Researcher Rebecca Spaulding points emphatically to the correct container, but 
Zoe ignores her gesture. She turns to the other bucket, 
trying desperately to overturn it with her large brown 
nose. It slides only a few inches across the smooth 
floor. Why doesn’t Zoe respond to the pointing? 

This scene plays out just behind Science Hill in a 
tiny white building visited by dogs from across the 
tri-state area. The Canine Cognition Center (CCC) 
opened a year and a half ago as part of Yale’s Comparative Cognition Lab. “Our center is devoted to learning 
more about canine psychology—how dogs perceive 
their environment, solve problems, and make decisions,” Laurie Santos, the CCC’s director, wrote in an 
email. Scientists already know that both nature and 
nurture play a role in development, but the question 
is how much “nurture”—or environment—matters.

The researchers refer to their test subjects as “dog 
scientists” on the CCC’s website, but they caution the 
leash-holders against believing that dogs always understand what’s going on. Even so, the owners tend 
to become invested in the experiments’ outcomes. “I 
am always rooting for her to do well!” laughs Theresa 
Schenker, Zoe’s owner, who said she hoped the research would give her a chance to bond with her pet. 

In the laboratory’s curious social dynamic, owners 
must be instructed to sit with their heads down and 
eyes closed to avoid giving helpful cues while their 
barking counterparts are put to the test. 

For all the big questions the researchers try to answer, the laboratory building is surprisingly small. 
Illustration by Ivy Sanders-Schneider



**Title: Dog Cognition**
**Author: Natalie Yang**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
SEPTEMBER 2015
7
many dogs troop in and out over the course of the 
day, sometimes leading to confusion. “Wait,” Spauld­
ing says at one point, while looking at the whiteboard 
with the list of dogs coming in. “Is Zoe the dog or 
the owner?” Upon closer examination, we confirmed 
that Zoe is a dog. “We keep getting dogs with people 
names,” she explains in the lab’s office. 

In keeping with this theme, I observe Lily, a large 
black poodle whose tightly curled fur is adorned with 
bright pink rubber bands. She pants and tugs at the 
leash held by her owner, Catherine Kelly, who sports 
a black T-shirt decorated with a bejeweled poodle. 
Kelly straightens her glasses on her nose as she apolo­
gizes for the state of Lily’s unkempt fur. “She has all 
these clumps here! I need to take her to the groom­
er,” she says, attempting to smooth down the black 
curls. Lily pants happily, unfazed, and examines my 
hands for treats.

 “We’re going to have three parts to your visit to­
day,” Spaulding explains to Kelly. “First, we’ll have Lily 
warm up and get some easy treats. Then we’ll do the 
first test, where we’ll hide a treat and see where Lily 
chooses to look for it. Next, we’ll present Lily a scene 
with certain cues and see how she responds.” Kelly 
and Lily enter the testing room as Spaulding switches 
on a television screen in the waiting room. A live cam­
era feed appears, allowing me to watch Lily’s session.

The tests are often derived from experiments that 
comparative psychologists give to monkeys or ba­
bies. But dogs come in all shapes and sizes, and the 
tests must sometimes be customized to take that into 
account. “The difference between a very small Chi­
huahua and a large Bernese mountain dog is huge, 
and setting up the same things for both of those dogs 
will get different results,” says Linda Chang, the lab’s 
manager at the time. This trial-and-error process is 
complicated by the fact that, unlike human subjects, 
“dogs can’t tell you what they found confusing, and 
they can’t tell you what they thought was hard. So you 
have to take your best guess,” Spaulding explains. As a 
result, the researchers must often repeat the same test 
for months with many dogs. 

Soon after Lily and Kelly leave, Mary Coates ar­
rives with her dog Logan, a golden retriever who 
lumbers over like a friendly bear and grunts happily 
when I reach over to rub his back. He and Coates are 
led into the study room, and I watch on the screen as 
the familiar treat-hiding scenes play out with Logan. 
All I can see of Logan is his large nose at the bottom 
left of the screen, pointing attentively at the white 
buckets in front of him. Occasionally, he turns back to 
Coates for reassurance, but she follows the rules and 
keeps her eyes averted.

Despite some test results like Zoe’s, Santos says 
that after months of conducting the pointing test, the 
researchers have found that most dogs do respond to 
human pointing gestures. Michael Bogese, the lab’s 
current manager, explained to me that the ability to 
recognize human gestures is uncommon among ani­
mals. “Indeed, even our closest living relatives, chim­
panzees, are very bad at the task,” Bogese says. But the 
CCC researchers still need to figure out which types 
of pointing dogs pay attention to, and the extent to 
which our gestures influence their decisions. 

The “dog scientists” of Yale’s CCC are just happy 
to get treats, but in the meantime their owners are 
watching to see whether they measure up. They sit in 
the next room, hoping that their pup will be the one 
to prove dogs’ emotional genius. “I just know Logan 
thinks and understands,” Coates says after the tests are 
done. “And I love being part of something that vali­
dates that.” 
-Natalie Yang is a sophomore 
in Ezra Stiles College


**Title: The Anthropology of One**
**Author: Juliet Glazer**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

8
T
he woman I’m interviewing reaches across the 
yellowed plastic table and takes my chapped hands 
between her own. I’ll call her Lucía. She is middle-
aged, with creases around her eyes but girlish dimples 
on her cheeks. We are sitting in a dimly lit café on the 
edge of the sprawling slum, or villa, where she lives in 
Buenos Aires. I have just asked if she misses her home 
in Peru. It’s June, winter in the Southern Hemisphere, 
and she pulls her thickly knit sweater tighter around 
her middle. “De vez en cuando,” (Sometimes), she 
says. “Do you miss yours?” Sí, I reply. The tip of my 
nose tingles the way it does before I am going to cry. 

I had lasted through only three weeks of classes 
about Argentinean infant mortality statistics before I 
quit my study-abroad program in Buenos Aires. In­
stead, for two months, I walked the city’s narrow 
cobblestone streets from barrio to barrio. Recoleta, 
Palermo, Almagro, Abasto, San Telmo. Broad-leafed 
palms dripping flowering vines. Walls painted with 
pink and purple nymphs. Parks filled with roses and 
patchy grass and very small kids who were very good 
at kicking soccer balls. And everywhere, strange, fad­
ed Spanish colonials and tall, quiet apartment build­
ings whose walls, I was sure, had harbored yesterday’s 
militants and their torturers. 

I made friends in bars, in chamber-music classes, 
and on the bus. But I had promised my time only to 
myself, and I often turned down plans in order to sit 
in hundred-year-old cafes in the late afternoon where 
the light from stained glass windows cast colored dia­
monds on the marble tables. Crossing the noisy street 
near my apartment at dusk, I would sometimes feel a 
sudden tightness in the pit of my stomach. I was far 
from home and about to cook another omelet in a 
dark kitchen alone. But I could shake off my gloom by 
remembering that here, I had chosen independence. I 
could transform loneliness into alone-ness.

The days got colder and dusk fell before dinner­
time. More and more, my unplanned hours seemed to 
expand frighteningly. Hoping to feel productive and 
useful, I joined a volunteer team at an NGO. I would 
work in the office and, once a week, help give work­
shops about healthcare and rights to migrant women 
like Lucía who lived in the villas of Buenos Aires. Dur­
ing my time off, I planned to interview some of the 
women about their access to healthcare as part of my 
senior anthropology project at Yale.

On a Wednesday evening, I followed the other 
volunteers to Lucía’s home in the villa, where we were 
to lead the workshop. Dim light from an unshaded 
bulb on the ceiling illuminated the single ground-
floor room. Twenty-odd women leaned against 
stained, unpainted walls or settled on the sunken 
couch and overturned buckets on the concrete floor. 
Another volunteer made introductions and began to 
explain that under Argentina’s Law 25.271, migrants 
have the right to free healthcare, education, and ad­
equate housing. “But there is discrimination against 
us everywhere,” a stooped, older woman said, step­
ping forward. Others said they envisioned a future 
when making an appointment at the local public 
clinic would not mean waking up at 4 a.m. to get in 
line, and ambulance drivers would no longer refuse 
to enter the villa out of fear. Some nodded along, but 
most were already chatting amongst themselves and 
scolding one another’s toddlers. Realizing that it was 
late and that the group was losing energy, we packed 
up and promised we’d discuss the issues further the 
following week. 

I shivered as we walked back to the bus stop 
along one of the narrow, unpaved streets. Dinnertime. 
The spicy smell of grilling meat mixed with some­
thing rotting. A maze of slender buildings, three and 
four stories, jumbled stacks of colored boxes rising 
on either side of the road. Young men outside small 
restaurants blasting music and stands with Quilmes 
beer signs. Skinny dogs weaving between legs. Dogs 
essay
9
sprawled on their sides, rib cages heaving. A woman 
stepping from an open doorway and slopping a buck­
et of grey water into the street. 

By the time I got off the No. 92 bus back in “the 
rest” of Buenos Aires, I felt weak. I was safe in my 
air-conditioning, safe in my clean cotton sheets. But 
I was sweating right through them. Some roll of the 
dice had dropped me in the right side of Buenos Aires 
on a comfortable mattress in a freshly painted apart­
ment. I knew that if I thought about where I had just 
been I would cry, so instead I thought about what I 
was doing there. But I was hardly the right person 
to be teaching these women about their rights in Ar­
gentina. I, who could barely remember the names of 
the Argentinian presidential candidates, who still felt 
like a third-grader trying to read the news in La Nación 
and Pagina 12 each morning. And on top of all this, I 
wanted to take these women’s stories and share them 
with a few students and professors who spoke a dif­
ferent language in a different hemisphere.

I forced myself to take deep breaths as I sat in 
the NGO’s office that week, working on posters for 
our next workshop and researching Law 25.271. Tak­
ing the train back to my apartment at rush hour, I 
couldn’t suppress the sense that everything I was do­
ing was wrong. At night I ate alone so I wouldn’t have 
to answer my friends’ questions about my work. I 
was too embarrassed to email my advisor at Yale to 
ask for help. 

I assured my supervisor at the NGO that every­
thing was going well, but when we returned to the 
villa for our second workshop, I felt the bile rise in my 
throat. I had woken up that morning with my stom­
ach churning. We were finally here, and the buildings 
were too close together. Motorcycles, loud bass beats, 
and human shouts competed in the dark. I forced 
my gaze down and saw chicken bones in the mud. I 
pressed two fingers to the pressure point on my wrist 
to keep the nausea under control as we walked inside 
Lucía’s house, but the scent of baking bread was over­
whelming. As Lucía offered the other volunteers rolls 
off a baking sheet, I yanked the metal door back open. 
Hands on my knees, I dry-heaved in the street. Several 
yards away two men carrying a mattress up a ladder 
to a second-story landing stared at me. “Colorada!” they 
called. “Redhead!”

I snuck back inside and whispered an apologet­
ic excuse to Lucía about food poisoning. She placed 
her hands on my shoulders, led me to the couch, 
and handed me a roll. Lying down and biting into 
the warm bread, my breathing eased. A middle-aged 
woman perched on the arm of the sofa and intro­
duced herself as Soledad. She began to rub my an­
kles. “This is what my oldest daughter likes,” she said. 
“Does it help?” As the other volunteers hung up the 
posters I had made listing the clauses of Law 25.271, 
I stayed on the couch with Soledad. Thinking it was 
safe to open my mouth again, I asked her where she 
was from. “Lima,” she said, the capital city of Peru. 
Now she was Lucía’s neighbor. “Lucía knows all my 
secrets!” she said in a false whisper. “Last night I came 
home at midnight and she was scolding me.” We both 
looked over at Lucía and laughed. 

That night I smiled at everyone on the No. 92 
bus. Helping to give the workshops and starting my 
anthropology project were things I could actually do, 
Illustration by Katie Colford



**Title: THE NEW JOURNAL**
**Author: Juliet Glazer**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I realized. With her hand on my ankle, Soledad had 
given me the care I hadn’t been able to admit I needed. 

The next day I asked my supervisor at the NGO for 
advice on drafting a list of questions for the women 
who came to our workshops about how they understood their right to healthcare in Argentina. I emailed 
my advisor at Yale and held practice interviews with 
my friends. “When did you arrive in Argentina?” I 
asked a friend as she sat at my kitchen table. “When 
was the last time you saw a doctor?” “Do you know 
that you have the right to free healthcare as a migrant?”  

Over the next month, I interviewed Lucía, Soledad, and three other women in the café on the edge 
of the villa. I hugged Soledad when she walked into 
the café in July. As she sat down, I asked about her 
daughter who has just turned eleven. “The birthday 
cake we made was so big that Lucía had to help me 
carry it!” she said. She asked me how my weekend 
was, whether I had friends there, or a boyfriend. “No,” 
I told her, men take too much time. Soledad smiled 
and rolled her eyes. “Men take time because you have 
to explain everything to them,” she said. “I know,” I 
said. “They don’t even understand themselves.” She 
agreed. “You and I, we see everything. Even what we 
wish we didn’t!”  

In one of my last interviews, I turn on my voice 
recorder and ask another woman when she came to 
Buenos Aires, and whether it was hard for her to adjust to living here. She tells me that when she first arrived ten years ago, she cried every day for her mother 
back in Bolivia. “I cried so much I thought I’d be sick,” 
she says quietly. She pauses and I don’t interrupt. “You 
know,” she says finally, “I haven’t talked about this in 
a long time.” As I settle my elbows on the café table, it 
occurs to me that as an anthropology student, at least 
I can give her this. By listening, by trying to understand, I can show her that I care. “I cry a lot here, too,” 
I say. “But it’s different for you,” she replies, raising 
her eyebrows. “At least you know you’re going home.”
-Juliet Glazer is a junior 
in Silliman College
*The names of the subjects involved in the research project have been 
changed to protect the subjects’ confidentiality.


**Title: Drought**
**Author: Malini Gandhi**
**Page number(s): 11**

The summer of the water rationing, the zinnias in clay pots steam in the sun.
The hummingbirds we usually fed with sugar water hover around the empty feeders, 
still thrusting their bills to drink— 
confused, they fly into each other, falling dazed into the dust.
You sit on the windowsill eating a red fruit with your fingers, 
legs dangling out the window. 
Every twenty minutes, a plane takes off from the airfield bordering the yard and flies so low 
that the house is hit with wind; you drop the fruit, reach out your hand. 
The swimming pool is bright and drained of water—
in the afternoons, I watch as you walk barefoot along the bottom of the pool for hours,
pausing to press your palms against the walls: the plaster of the pool is white, without cracks.
Late at night, when I wake and walk out onto the deck,
I find you asleep folded in a corner at the bottom of the empty pool, in the hollow of the deep end, 
like a child in a dark church.
In June, the cracks start to appear in the earth.
At first they are thin and delicate, like the lines around your lips,
but then they grow wide like wounds.
On the airfield bordering the yard, there are hundreds of arrows painted on the runways,
pointing in many directions. 
You start to spend more and more time in the empty pool.
From the deck, the heat shimmering off the asphalt makes the airfield appear to be a vast lake. 
In the yard next door, there is a small boy and an empty cage.
Slowly, the hummingbirds begin to die. The dying takes weeks and weeks.
They are frantic at first, wheeling into each other, 
but then they lie still in the shadow of the sweet acacia, breathing very slowly.
You have not come out of the pool for days. 
Then one night I lift the hummingbirds and hold them in my hands.  
In the kitchen, I fill nineteen tall glasses with water, slip the birds in and hold them under.
The next morning, the empty pool is a blinding white.
You climb out, arched shoulders and pink lips and damp hair, as if you had been swimming.
-Malini Gandhi


**Title: MISSING THE MARK**
**Author: Rachel Brown**
**Page number(s): 12**

Do the recent changes to the GED close an avenue for social mobility?
by Rachel Brown
I
n the computer lab at Keefe Community Center in 
Hamden, Connecticut, Steven Barnes pecks at his 
keyboard with his right index finger. He is retyping an 
essay about reusable bags and the environment. Neatly dressed in a checkered blue shirt and rectangular 
black glasses, Barnes has the clean-cut air of a model 
student. He runs his own business moving heavy machinery, but he is unfamiliar with the one kind of machine that every small business owner seems to need 
nowadays. “The first time I sat at a computer was with 
Ms. Judy,” he explains. 

Eva Goldburn, one of Barnes’s classmates, sits at 
a computer nearby. She summons Ms. Judy—Judy 
Taddei, their instructor—to help adjust her document’s font size. Using the computer to take tests 
frustrates Goldburn. “I read slower, and I type slower, 
and the time runs out. If I was doing it on paper that 
would be different,” she says. Barnes and Goldburn 
are not attending a computer skills class—they are 
studying for the GED, the test that allows adults to 
obtain the equivalent of a high school diploma. 

Barnes, now fifty-four, left high school before 
receiving his degree. Thirty-five years later, in September, 2014, he returned to the classroom to earn 
his GED through courses offered two nights a week 
by Hamden Adult Education. The classroom likely 
resembles those Barnes occupied in high school—
a world and U.S. topographical map hang over the 
blackboard, and dictionaries fill the shelves. But the 
snapshot



**The Changing Face of the GED**
**Author: Rachel Brown**
**Page number(s): 13-14**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
SEPTEMBER 2015
13
similarities end there. The curriculum is dramatically 
different from what Barnes encountered at school a 
generation ago.  

The General Education Development (GED) test, 
a staple of the adult education system for the past 
seven decades, was entirely revamped at the begin­
ning of 2014. The new test has become more chal­
lenging and is offered only on the computer.

The previous version of the test, which had been 
used since 2002, included one essay and multiple-
choice questions in five subjects: math, writing, 
science, reading, and social studies. The new exam 
combines the reading and writing sections and 
includes question formats such as drag-and-drop, 
fill-in-the-blank, and extended response. You can’t 
get lucky and guess your way to a passing score. 

The GED has long helped Americans escape 
poverty by steering them toward college or a better 
job. The GED test became nationally popular after 
World War II when an assessment was needed for 
returning soldiers who had not completed high 
school. Soon the appeal spread to non-veterans. Today, 
over 800,000 people take the GED each year, earn­
ing it the nickname “America’s Largest High School.” 

According to the Pew Hispanic Center, twenty-one 
percent of high school dropouts eventually 
receive a GED.

But the changes may threaten this long-standing 
avenue toward upward mobility. Students in Con­
necticut already feel the effects. In 2013, 3,500 
people in the state passed the GED. In 2014, just 280 
people passed. The decrease of ninety-two percent 
reflects both the new test’s increased difficulty and 
the rush of students who took the test in 2013, be­
fore the changes. The trend was similar nationwide.

The GED Testing Service is a collaboration 
between the American Council on Education, an as­
sociation of leaders in higher education, and Pearson, 
a for-profit testing and publishing company. Pearson 
establishes the GED curriculum, but states can decide 
whether to offer the GED or another high school 
equivalency test. State and local education boards 
finance programs to help students prepare for and 
take the test. This web is complicated, but the funda­
mental premise is not: the GED is a credential of last 
resort, a door left open to people who may have few 
other options in their quest for education. 

Even with recent changes, the GED faces some­
thing of an identity crisis. Should it replicate the 
American high school curriculum, down to the ac­
complishments of President James K. Polk, or should 
the material be tailored to the diversity of test takers’ 
professional aspirations? Most students interviewed—
both those employed and unemployed—hoped to 
use the test as a step toward additional schooling, 
typically vocational. But in seeking to rescue the GED 
from the moniker “Good Enough Diploma,” the 
bureaucrats and educators at the GED Testing Service 
have erected what many adult learners view as frus­
trating and arbitrary barriers to opportunity. 

Goldburn works at a child development center 
in New Haven caring for six- to eight-month-old 
infants. She is studying for the GED because her 
job requires a Child Development Associate (CDA) 
credential, which mandates a high school degree 
or equivalent. 

“I really don’t want to do it,” Goldburn says, 
shaking her head. She came to the U.S. from Jamaica 
in 1989 and is less familiar with some of the content 
on American history and civics, which are included 
in the GED social studies curriculum, along with 
economics, geography, and world history. I ask Gold­
burn whether the material on the GED is relevant to 
her job. She responds, “It has absolutely nothing to 
do with the children.” 

A classroom at the East Haven Adult Learning 
Center (EHALC), a nonprofit education center in 
East Haven, Connecticut, offered a snapshot of the 
challenges facing test designers: the students ranged 
from a middle-aged woman from Sierra Leone who 
had been out of school for years to young men who 
had only recently left American high schools.

According to a pamphlet provided by the GED 
Testing Service, the recent changes align the GED’s 
content with the demands of employers and higher 
education institutions. Businesses sometimes wrote 


--- Page 14 ---

THE NEW JOURNAL
14
off the old GED as too easy to be a meaningful 
measure of ability. And when it came to salaries, a 
U.S. Census Bureau study found that individuals with 
a GED earned approximately 1,600 dollars less each 
month than those with a diploma. The new test is 
meant to change this statistic.

“It’s a wonderful new instrument. It’s brought 
students who have taken this test into the twenty-
first century,” says Joe Ferraiolo, the principal of 
the EHALC. On the edge of his desk teeter stacks of 
paper containing student forms and information on 
tests and grant applications. Ferraiolo leafs through 
them as he explains that some of the GED changes 
are good. Ferraiolo is particularly enthusiastic about 
the more detailed transcripts students receive, which 
make it easier for employers to understand results.

Adama Jalah, who attends the EHALC, went to 
high school in her native Sierra Leone, but after she 
emigrated in 1979, she had trouble getting her tran­
scripts out of the war-torn nation. Jalah took the old 
test and missed the passing score of 2,250 by just 
thirty points. “I thought I was going to get it before 
it changed,” she laments. But Jalah remains diligent. 
She works as a nursing assistant in West Haven and 
is studying for the GED with the hope of attending 
nursing school. 

Jalah’s GED instructor, Diane Albright, has been 
teaching at EHALC for twelve years. In class, Albright 
pla ys Simon and Garfunkel as background music 
and offers muffins and chocolate to her students as 
“energy food.” On a Wednesday morning in late April, 
she holds up news clippings on everything from 
the earthquake in Nepal to a survey on the world’s 
happiest country. Jalah pipes up with questions about 
the survey’s sample size. Across the table, a teenager 
in a loose gray sweatshirt thumbs through notifica­
tions on his cellphone with clear disinterest. 

Later, Albright tells me that much of the new 
material is simply too hard for students to master in 
a typical GED course. Many students are already be­
hind when they come into adult education programs, 
and it takes time for them to catch up. In general, 
it takes students at EHALC six months to a year to 
prepare for the test. Since many students work full 
time while studying, they often have little time to 
review outside of class. Albright says that sometimes 
students show up to class without having slept the 
previous night. 

Students’ frustrations with the test’s new chal­
lenges are evident in the classroom. The school 
currently serves around 230 students, with approxi­
mately forty-five in the GED program. Ferraiolo says 
that when the new test was introduced, EHALC saw 
a dramatic drop in attendance. A similar decline 
occurred after the implementation of the 2002 test, 
and he expects that the numbers will start to bounce 
back in the next year. 

The changes to the GED, born in America’s in­
dustrial heyday, are intended to keep the test relevant 
in a transformed economy. 

Even so, some have already decided the new test 
isn’t worth it. In response to higher costs and stan­
dards, certain states have adopted alternatives. New 
York, Nevada, and Indiana have all begun to use the 
Test Assessing Secondary Education. Six states now 
offer the High School Equivalency Test. Both cover 
material similar to that of the GED, but are cheaper 
and can be taken online or on paper.  

Connecticut also offers classes for a Credit Diplo­
ma, which is geared toward those between seventeen 
and twenty-three who are completing high school 
credits, and the National External Diploma Program, 
which is more focused on professional life skills, 
such as proficiency in Microsoft Office. 

But even in this more crowded testing landscape, 
the GED remains the most popular choice. Sitting at 
a plastic wood table in the Keefe Community Center, 
I ask Goldburn if she has a backup plan if she doesn’t 
pass the GED. She responds, “Hopefully, when I take 
the test, I’ll pass it.” 

-Rachel Brown is a 2015 graduate 
of Saybrook College





**Title: MANUFACTURING COOL**
**Author: Jordan Coley**
**Page number(s): 16-18**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Junior Seungju Hwang pointed to the guitar case on 
the floor of the recording studio in Timothy Dwight. 
“Open it up!” he told me.

“I’ll lead, and you just jump in,” Kalaeb Tessema 
instructed from his seat behind the keyboard.  The 
room was reminiscent of the home studios featured 
on MTV Cribs—quaint enough to suggest amateurism, 
yet sufficiently equipped to convince otherwise. 
“Uh, I don’t really know how to do that,” I responded. Hwang was gravely overestimating my guitar skills, which I mostly picked up back in 2007, 
from an instructional DVD. 
“Alright. How about you just start playing, and 
we’ll follow?” he replied, scratching his head. 
Hwang, a singer and guitarist, and Tessema, a keyboardist, were bandmates and had been coming to 
the studio since last winter, when Hwang wrote his 
first song, “Voltage.” Tessema had been Hwang’s freshman counselor, and was spending the year following 
graduation doing research and applying to medical 
school. The pair had just finished their first, multi-
song project, The Froco-Frokid Sessions. Hwang had invited me to sit in on a celebratory jam session. Now, 
he was asking me to play.

Together, Hwang and Tessema occupy a unique 
niche in Yale’s music performance world. With a 
number of acts on campus embracing a less accessible 
sound, Hwang and Tessema dedicate themselves 
to covering pop radio regulars like Ed Sheeran and 
Bruno Mars and writing originals of a similar style. 
At Yale, where students who write and perform their 
own cultivate what some would call a more “alternative” type of music, Hwang’s and Tessema’s mainstream taste causes them the same sort of musical insecurity that I felt while preparing to jam with them.

Nervously, I started in on a chord progression 
I had thought up in my bedroom a few days earlier. Within moments, Tessema weaved an improvised 
melody around each bar, and Hwang followed with 
a steady drum pattern. Soon, a pop-rock ballad of 
Goo-Goo-Doll-proportions took audible form. After 
a couple rounds of verse and chorus, I began the 
gradual diminuendo. Our song slowly faded to a 
triumphant silence. 


Yale’s music scene has as many cliques as a 
high school cafeteria. There is a symphony orchestra 
for the classically trained instrumentalists and a glee 
club for the vocal equivalents. There’s a set of a cappella groups that perform the latest radio hits, nineties 
favorites, and time-tested standards. And, of course, 
there’s the collection of student bands, performers, 
and their respective devotees existing contently on 
the fringe. 

It wasn’t especially surprising that a rendition 
of Carly Rae Jepsen’s 2012 hit “Call Me Maybe” appeared on The Duke’s Men’s latest album, Busted. But 
you would probably find it hard to believe that the 
song—or one like it—would ever be performed at 
216 Dwight, the dim basement venue that features 
local and student bands. There is an accepted division: bands and independent performers at Yale are 
the indie rockers, bar spitters, jazz players, electronic 
DJs, R&B singers—the “alternative.” Pop blares from 
the speakers of a crowded party or is preceded by a 
pitch pipe. 

“There is an attitude that that which is popular, 
in all forms of art, is lesser because it appeals to the 
lowest common denominator,” junior Chris Cappello 
said. He’s the Editor-in-Chief of the Yale Broadcasting 
Company’s music magazine, Relatively Dark Blue Neither 
Purple Nor Green (otherwise known as the Zine), and guitarist and lead singer of local band, Loner Chic. “College kids tend to shy away from buying into [pop 
music] explicitly because so much of what we do is 
critical angle


--- Page 17 ---

SEPTEMBER 2015
17

somehow geared toward accruing cultural capital.” In 
the college setting, the constant game of intellectual 
jockeying takes on a fierce form among those in the 
music scene. “There is really so little to be gained 
from being an out-and-out Pop music fan,” Cappello 
said bluntly. 

Senior Sarah Solovay, who writes pop music, has 
been on the other end of this blanket dismissal. When 
we spoke in late July, she had recently returned from 
a two-week writing stint in Nashville and was preparing to make a similar trip to Los Angeles. In college, 
she has found that not even her professional credentials can save her from pop-focused ridicule. “The 
other day I was talking with another Yalie about my 
music, and when I told her I try to write Top 40-ish 
music, she said, ‘What?! But you so aren’t a Top 40 
kind of person!’” Solovay does not believe such a person exists, but at Yale, “a lot of people think this way,” 
she wrote to me over email, “like the kind of music 
you make reflects how complex you are, so making 
mainstream music exposes you as shallow or basic.” 

That isn’t to say, of course, that pop music 
can’t be of some value to the shrewd undergrad looking to bolster their music credibility. “There are artists 
that have an ironic ‘cultural cash,’ if you’re into them,” 
Cappello continued, citing pop megastar Taylor Swift’s 
latest album, 1989. He recalled attending a party at 
216 Dwight where Swift’s “Blank Space” was playing. 
“Everyone was super into it, but it was like, ‘Look 
at us, we’re arch! We’re going to play Taylor Swift and 
PC Music [an otherworldly, London-based electropop collective] one after another, and we don’t have 
a problem with that. Isn’t that cool?’” Though Cappello said this somewhat mockingly, he didn’t exclude 
himself from the critique. He and his peers at WYBC 
don’t represent some sort of tastemaking vanguard. 
He knew that. They simply reflect a “certain subset of 
college taste,” he said. And ultimately, the subset that 
one falls into does not only depend of the quality of 
the music, but also on how it is sold. 

Junior Stefanie Fernandez, Assistant Editor of the 
Zine, shared this point of view. “I think it’s an issue of 
marketing,” she told me. Fernandez said many of the 
groups popular amongst her cohorts at WYBC Radio 
write songs that could be “Pop” but are labeled “alternative” to protect them from allegations of selling 
out. This may seem like a paradox—alternative music, by its nature, isn’t “Pop,” but that does not mean 
alternative music can’t be widely popular. There’s an 
important distinction between “Pop” the genre and 
“pop music” the cultural phenomenon. For some Top 
40 acts, whether or not their songs end up on the 
Top 40 “Pop” chart is not a question of genre, but 
simply a matter of how popular they are. Songs that 
have topped the Billboard’s charts have been sonically disparate. In 2012,  indie rock musician Gotye’s 
“Somebody That I Used to Know” earned the #1 spot 
on the Billboard “Hot 100” end of the year chart; just 
four years earlier, it was “Low” by rapper Flo Rida. 
The modern popular music industry with all its bells, 
Seacrests, and whistles has sustained itself on bringing 
the niche to the masses, from early Southern ragtime 
to nineties grunge. 

But music executives have not been afraid to invent the “next big thing” themselves. In a 2012 piece 
for Pacific Standard magazine, Columbia music sociologist Jennifer C. Lena catalogued the controversial origins and rise of Lana Del Rey. As Lena describes, Del 
Rey initially charmed the indie world with her aloof, 
do-it-yourself aesthetic, but when word broke that 
she “was bankrolled by her wealthy, marketing-savvy father, and that she had worked with professional 


--- Page 18 ---

THE NEW JOURNAL
18

songwriters, managers, and possibly even plastic surgeons,” the façade came crashing down. It became 
clear that Lizzy Grant (as she was first known) was 
merely another product of the traditional pop engine. 
Even if her sound was “different,” it was Pop in its 
truest form: the genre instead of the cultural phenomenon—the Pop that birthed talents like Britney 
Spears, Katy Perry, and Justin Bieber. This is the Pop 
that Hwang and Tessema like to write and cover, and 
it’s also the type that is most often mocked by music 
critics at Yale and beyond. 

On an afternoon in July, I chatted with Hwang, 
who worked as a summer research assistant in the genetics lab, during his lunch break. I asked him why he 
thought there were so few pop acts at Yale. 
“If you can imagine Jason Derulo’s original version of ‘Talk Dirty’ done in TD Studio acoustics with 
a guitar, a ukulele, and clapping,” he looked at me 
frankly, “would people want to listen to that?” I gave 
no answer. “Nowadays, Pop is really polished.” When 
it fails to meet this standard, he concluded, nobody 
wants to listen. 

As terse and reductive as his assessment seemed, I 
couldn’t help but feel that it was, at least in part, true. 
It’s not that student Pop acts can’t be good, but if they 
don’t have polished, professional production quality, 
it’s just that we—average music listeners—have been 
geared to expect it of the genre. This sense of professionalism has become less a feature of Pop and more 
a part of its essence. That might be why we can enjoy 
the oft-gritty and imperfect qualities of traditional 
college band music, but are unable to do so if the 
performer is singing a Bruno Mars song.

These were the pieces of the puzzle that were finally coming into place as I sat across from Hwang 
at a wooden picnic table at the base of Kline Biology Tower’s south side. A college student performing 
amateur Pop music will always sound a little karaoke 
because, by its nature, the genre is not amateur. But 
Pop’s universality has afforded it a low rank within 
the cultural taste hierarchy. Hwang accepts this, and 
he is not interested in scoring any cool points. He 
says he wants wants to make music people can “listen and groove too.” There was something appealingly 
humble about this, even hip. 



**Title: Invitation**
**Author: Jillian Kravatz**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
1.   Write your creed on a napkin, assuming you have one. 
      1a.         If you don’t have a creed, one is provided for you here:     
	
       A cholesterol breakfast,
	
       cracked egg shells on the counter. 
	
       A cold breakfast of yogurt and string cheese. 
	
       A continental breakfast delayed by 
	
       inclement weather. 
	
	
	
       Orange juice flood
	
       when the porcelain breaks. 
	
       Shades of beautiful pollution
	
       in the sunrise.   
	
       Orange juice filling the Grand Canyon 
	
       on given Thursdays. 
2.   Sing your creed by the lakeside. 
3.   Sing your creed at dawn. 
4.   Sing your creed in the town square. 
5.   Sing your creed in the fitting room. 
6.   Take your creed to the church and slip it inside the book of psalms. 
7.   Sing your creed to the heavens. 
8.   If they dance, keep singing your creed. 
      8a.         If they do not dance, keep singing your creed. 


**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 20-21**

Nora is anxiously awaiting a package. She is lying 
on her bed in her suite when she finally gets 
the USPS delivery notice on her iPhone. After class 
that afternoon, she picks up a bulky envelope from 
the Yale post office. Two of her friends are already 
waiting for her back in the suite. They eye the 
package impatiently.
	
“Moment of truth,” one of them says.
 	
Nora rips open the pouch and removes a small, 
lilac box tied with pale purple ribbon. She flips off the 
top to reveal a dinky beaded bracelet. 



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
“It’s not really my aesthetic,” she jokes, and tosses 
it on the couch. She removes the thin layer of foam 
on which the bracelet had rested. Underneath, a small 
packet wrapped in paper is taped down to the base.
She wrestles the packet free and unwraps the 
paper, revealing a stack of six pairs of South Carolina 
driver’s licenses. She locates the pair meant for her.
“Wow—these look legit,” she says, inspecting the 
scanning strip on the back and flicking the card’s ho­
lographic face in and out of the light. She splays the 
other ten cards out on the table so her friends can 
pick out their likenesses. Sitting down on her couch, 
she grabs her laptop and pulls up an image of a state-
issued South Carolina ID. Everything—the color and 
font scheme, the picture placements, the ZIP code 
format—matches perfectly. The personal information 
and photo match those on her ID from her home 
state. The name on the South Carolina card, however, 
is a pseudonym, and two years have been subtracted 
from her date of birth. On her real driver’s license, 
Nora is twenty. Nora from Columbia, South Carolina, 
is twenty-one. 

She searches her new address on Google, trying 
to memorize where it is on a map. A housing ap­
praisal pops up on Zillow.
“Ninety-two thousand dollars—I’m a broke 
bitch!” she laughs.
Three weeks prior, Nora had visited the West­
ern Union kiosk at the Walgreens on York Street and 
transferred six hundred dollars—plus a fourteen-
dollar fee—to an account in Guangzhou, China. She 
and five other friends had already submitted their 
personal information, along with photos taken 
against a white wall in a college basement, to a 
website recommended by a freshman acquaintance. 
The order had taken longer than the eighteen-day 
shipping time listed on the site, but the product did 
not disappoint.
“I want to try it tonight!” she said, dismissing her 
friends’ grousing about their approaching final exams. 
Later that evening, I accompany Nora to Barracu­
da, a Latin-inspired bar on the corner of Chapel and 
Elm. We settle in at a booth, and Nora flags down a 
waitress to take her order.
“Can I see your ID?” she asks nicely. Nora slides 
her South Carolina driver’s license across the table. 
The waitress gives the card a quick once-over and 
hands it back.
A few minutes later, she returns with a mango-
infused mojito. As she turns away, Nora cracks a smile. 
Of all the illicit activity on campus, the use of 
fake IDs is probably among the most prevalent and 
least scrutinized. According to a survey conducted 
by the Dean’s Office in the 2011–’12 academic year, 
Yale students drink more than the average American 
college student. But there’s an astonishing lack of 
people—university-employed or otherwise—tell­
ing us that buying false identification might be a 
bad idea. We never receive any administrative emails 
about fake IDs, and as a Branford freshman counselor 
told me, they are not a required topic for Freshman 
Orientation and fro-co meetings. 

I wanted to understand why the phenomenon 
of fake IDs is being ignored in the Yale–New Haven 
community, and to better grasp the impacts of a tacit 
culture of acceptance. At the beginning of February 
2015, I began sending a Google survey to students in 
three randomly selected residential colleges: Morse, 
Pierson, and Saybrook. I asked fifteen questions that 
ranged from whether students had ever purchased 
a fake, to the price they paid and how they got it, to 
whether they had ever faced disciplinary action for 
using one. Over the course of two months, I emailed 
the survey to 1,078 students, allowing participants 
to remain anonymous if they chose. My goal was not 
to get dead-accurate statistics, but rather a general 
understanding of fakes at Yale.



**Page number(s): 24**

Of the 230 students who responded to my 
survey, eighty-four, or approximately thirty-seven 
percent, reported that they had purchased a fake ID, a 
figure that was relatively consistent across the three 
colleges. The majority of respondents acquired their 
IDs during their freshman year or, in about a third of 
cases, while they were still in high school. Roughly 
a quarter purchased them on websites in the same 
way Nora did. Many students organized bulk orders 
among their friends or Greek organizations in order 
to take advantage of online discounts. 

Students pay a wide range of prices for fake 
IDs, some shelling out as little as twenty dollars or 
as much as 160 for a pair, in case one gets lost or 
taken by a bouncer. But the price that Nora paid was 
consistent with what most people spend for a quality 
card—properly laminated so that it doesn’t look or 
feel flimsy, outfitted with a convincing hologram and 
a data strip that will scan reliably at clubs and liquor 
stores that are strict about checking for minors. 

In addition to online sources, many students said 
that they acquired their IDs through friends who 
did not go to Yale, or “other” sources—often older 
friends or siblings who passed on their IDs after 
turning twenty-one. Thirty-five percent, however, re­
ported that they obtained one from another student. 
Several sources identified a Yale student who acted 
as an intermediary for them two years ago, relaying 
orders to a dealer in New York and ferrying fake IDs 
back to Yale in exchange for a small commission. 

I interviewed thirteen students and survey re­
spondents to get a sense of how the Yale–New Haven 
community participates in this increasingly sophis­
ticated marketplace. Those conversations made clear 
that a culture of permissibility at every disciplinary 
level has afforded the Yale student body a cavalier, if 
naïve, disregard for the law. Yale students routinely 
put themselves in positions that could theoreti­
cally land them in jail, and they often do so with 
surprisingly little forethought. These interviews also 
revealed a story of larger dysfunction, about how 
slippery fault becomes when it belongs to everyone 
and no one, and of what can go wrong when you 
only have to pass for twenty-one to drink in the state 
of Connecticut. 

“Most people don’t buy fakes to buy alcohol,” 
Amelia, a junior, said. “Most people buy fakes to 
access spaces.”
As students get older, the social scene can shift 
from dorm parties to off-campus bars. For people 
under twenty-one who want to branch out from the 
archetypal college party scene of keg stands and beer 
pong, the options can be limiting without a fake ID. 
While twenty-seven percent of those who responded 
to my questionnaire said that they used their fake IDs 
most often at liquor stores, the majority of respon­
dents—sixty-five percent—used them to enter bars 
and clubs.
Jane, a member of a sorority, bought a fake ID in 
part because of the social exclusion she says is cre­
ated by the drinking age. 

“At [sorority] formal, there will be a twenty-
one-plus area, and a lot of my friends are going to 
be in that area, and I want to be able to hang out 
with them at my event … that I paid for,” she said. 
“There’s an unnecessary divide in a social scene where 
I’m not allowed to hang out with my older friends.”
Katie, who has a late August birthday, expressed 
similar frustrations and discussed buying a fake ID 
while interning in Manhattan last summer, even 
though she rarely drank. Like Jane, Katie felt that the 
social freedom that comes with a fake ID was more 
important than access to alcohol itself. 

But while there are easier, more prudent ways of 
getting alcohol at Yale than purchasing it in a store, 
there is also a sense that a fake ID gives people more 
control over what they drink. Nora, for example, has 
every intention of using her fake ID at liquor stores.	
At a frat party, she’s at the mercy of whoever is 
pouring drinks, she explained, “whereas if it’s my 
bottle of [Grey] Goose, I know where it came from.” 
Nora made another common claim: drinking in 
designated public spaces tends to be less conducive 
to binge drinking, as bartenders are trained to rec­
ognize when customers are too intoxicated. “When 
you drink at a frat,” Nora said, “there’s no one who’s 
going to say, ‘No, you’ve had too much, go home.’” 
While there are sometimes Communication and 
Consent Educators and friendly bystanders at college 
parties, the risk of unmonitored drinking is higher.
But there’s also a more defiant element behind 
students’ eagerness to obtain fakes, an implicit belief 
that the law is simply not worth observing. Underly-



**Title: The Yale Fake ID Underground**
**Author:  Not specified in text**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
SEPTEMBER 2015
25
ing students’ commentary was a blatant contempt for 
the drinking age.
“I think we’re a little bit backwards,” Nora said of 
the United States, comparing its drinking age with 
that of Israel and European countries. “Obviously, 
I don’t think 15-, 16-year-olds, should be drink­
ing. But I’m an adult. I’ve worked, I’m experiencing 
some semblance of the real world … I can legally 
drive a car—I can kill someone with a car if I’m 
not careful,” she said. “I’m an adult in every aspect 
of my life.” 
John, who acquired his ID in high school, views 
the drinking age the same way. “It feels stupid,” he 
said. “It feels inane.”
Regardless of where and how they planned to 
use them, many students bought fake IDs simply as a 
logical extension of the existing culture.
“We’re already drinking, whether in [dorm] 
rooms or restaurants and bars,” Nora said. “It’s still 
happening. It’s constantly a game of remembering 
where will serve us. I can acquire booze already, so I 
just don’t want to play that game anymore.” 
Now is probably the time for a disclaimer: I 
don’t own a fake ID, nor have I ever seriously con­
sidered buying one. I’d like to say it’s because I’m a 
highly principled person, but more realistically it’s 
because I’ve never been very good at lying. There 
were certainly Friday nights during my freshman 
year when, pint of Ben & Jerry’s in hand, I wished 
I could have been at a chic bar with my upperclass­
men friends, but it was always the nebulous legal 
implications of buying a fake ID, and not the moral 
ones, that gave me pause.
As it turns out, many Yale students don’t see 
ownership of a fake ID as a moral lapse either. Of 
the 146 people in my survey who did not own fakes, 
only four said that a respect for the law or moral 
principle was their reason for not buying one.  
“I don’t like breaking rules. I don’t even down­
load illegal movies,” said one student who owns a 
fake. “But it’s so normal here for people to have fake 
IDs that it just feels like there’s nothing wrong 
with it.”
Regardless of one’s opinions on the matter, 
though, denying that the law carries any moral 
weight is still quite different from actively defying 
legal authority. When I first started interviewing Yale 
students, I thought that the insouciance with which 
they skirt the law was perhaps rooted in a sense that 
going to Yale, or more generally being in a college 
town, offers them protection. Financial resources 
must also play into that sense of entitlement, because 
while most Yale students have little patience for what 
they perceive as draconian drinking laws, not all of 
them can afford to break them. And when certain 
strains of false licenses begin to group themselves 
into distinct brands, peppering the campus like de­
signer sunglasses, fake ID ownership can sometimes 
seem like the exclusive province of the wealthy.
But while it would have been easy after talking 
to these students to reduce fake ID ownership to 
the cliché of Ivy-League entitlement, that explana­
tion fails to account for the scope of what appears 
to be a nationwide issue. A 2007 study published in 
Psychology of Addictive Behaviors showed that at a large, 
unnamed Midwestern state university, thirty-two 
percent of the student body possessed a fake ID by 
their sophomore spring, suggesting that Yale is by no 
means unique.

Most students’ disregard for the legal conse­
quences of owning a fake was due not so much to 
complacency as to ignorance. Twenty-nine percent of 
survey respondents who lacked a fake ID cited a fear 
of legal or administrative repercussions as their rea­
son for not buying one. But of the thirteen students 
I interviewed, only John had fully researched the 
potential consequences before purchasing his. 
Though some said that they probably should have 


---

Page 26

THE NEW JOURNAL
26
looked into it more, most students blithely ac­
knowledged that their understanding of the issue 
originated largely from hearsay. One student said she 
had “no idea” what the legal fallout of owning a fake 
could be. 
According to Seth Garbarsky, a Connecticut state 
attorney, flouting the Connecticut Liquor Control 
Act with a fake ID normally constitutes a low-class 
misdemeanor, for which the potential maximum 
sentence is a five-hundred-dollar fine and thirty days 
of jail time. Few students are aware of these potential 
consequences, but perhaps the absence of a collective 
understanding about how fake ID use is punished 
confirms that such understanding is unnecessary. Of 
the eighty-four students who admitted having fake 
IDs in my survey, only three reported getting in any 
kind of trouble beyond refusal of entry or sale. 
For instance, Carmen was drinking margaritas 
at Viva Zapata, a Mexican eatery, her freshman year 
when New Haven police raided the restaurant. When 
an officer demanded to see her ID, Carmen panicked 
and handed over her fake, a Rhode Island license 
she had purchased through a student intermediary. 
The officer could tell that the card, which lacked the 
convincing hologram of more expensive IDs, wasn’t 
real, but she was generous: Carmen admitted that 
it was counterfeit, and in the end the officer only 
charged her for underage drinking—an infraction, 
not a misdemeanor.
Carmen was offered the option of paying a fine 
of under two hundred dollars and having the charge 
remain on her driving record, or doing community 
service. Even though she doesn’t have an American 
driver’s license, since she is an international student, 
she wanted to ensure that any charges were dropped. 
She hired a lawyer who secured her twenty hours of 
community service, which she fulfilled at a nearby 
soup kitchen over the course of three months. She 
never had to appear in court, and she never told 
her parents. 
William F. Dow III, the lawyer Carmen hired, 
gets five to ten such cases every year, the majority of 
which involve Yale students. Dow said that arrange­
ments like Carmen’s are typical. 
“[Students] are given a citation, and they either 
pay a fine, or oftentimes if the prosecutor is gener­
ous, he or she will allow them to perform hours of 
community service in exchange for dropping the 
case,” Dow said. 
Garbarsky told me that the charges in fake ID 
cases are up to the discretion of the prosecutor. Why, 
then, isn’t the punishment more severe?
“It’s because it’s a nuisance crime,” Dow said. 
“The participants tend to be young, and unless there 
are extreme circumstances, it’s a recognition of the 
realities of life.” In most cases, prosecutors are will­
ing to accept a “reasonable” amount of community 
service—anywhere from ten to forty hours.
Some people I interviewed were concerned that 
the consequences could be worse for international 
students like Carmen, who could be thought of as 
impersonating an American citizen. But Jeffrey Alker 
Meyer, a federal court judge for the state of Con­
necticut, said that it is “very unlikely” that federal 
prosecutors would charge a college student who 
used a fake in the way Camen did. When I asked 
Dow whether student cases could escalate, he told 
me that I was making too big of a deal. “Underage 
kids drinking [is the crime], O.K.?”
So, as with underage drinking itself, it seems that 
students can afford to be ignorant about fake ID laws 
because they are so rarely relevant. In cases where 
New Haven police are not involved, Yale also tends to 
be permissive. In the 2011–’12 academic year, Yale 
Police found fourteen undergraduates who had pur­
chased alcohol with a fake ID at liquor stores or used 
one to gain access to Toad’s Place. In all but one case 
(in which the student had a previous disciplinary 
history), the only punishment was confiscation of 
the ID and a reprimand—the administrative equiva­
lent of a slap on the wrist. 
Jane, who purchased her fake ID in high school, 
was caught at the beginning of freshman year as she 
was exiting a liquor store with a bottle of wine. Both 
her infraction and her misdemeanor charges were 
dropped after she completed twenty-five hours of 
community service. Unlike Carmen, though, Jane 
was caught by Yale Police officers, and as a result 
was required to sit before Yale’s Executive Commit­
tee. She said that the disposition, in which she was 
pointedly questioned about how her parents raised 
her to approach alcohol and whether she intended to 
drink again before she was twenty-one, proved more 
intimidating than her court hearing. 
“They definitely try and scare you,” she said of 
the disciplinary process. “But you’re not going to 
get suspended. They recognize that there are enough 
people here [with fakes] that it’s not worth com­
pletely screwing over someone’s future because of it.”
Jane was also assigned to talk at Yale–New 
Haven Hospital with an alcohol counselor, who 
stopped their meetings after a preliminary session 
and follow-up. Jane said she thought the counseling 
was simply a way for Yale to cover its bases. (Pamela 
George, the secretary of the Executive Committee, 
could not be reached for comment over email, and 



Page 27

27
Yale College Dean Jonathan Holloway declined to 
be interviewed.)
 Two students I interviewed mentioned cases 
that didn’t involve Yale Police and so didn’t even 
reach the Executive Committee. Instead, the students 
were given a lecture by their residential college dean. 
Both Jane and Carmen still use the fake IDs of other 
students who look like them to get into clubs from 
time to time, though they say they do so with 
more anxiety.
Perhaps Yalies would be more clued-in to the 
mild punitive repercussions of having a fake ID if 
more students had to sit in front of the Executive 
Committee or hire a lawyer, as Jane and Carmen 
did. Getting caught, however, appears to be a rare 
occurrence: only eighteen percent said that their 
IDs hadn’t worked on more than one occasion. 
Garbarsky told me that this may be because fake 
IDs have become more sophisticated since 2002, 
when he started working in a lower court that 
prosecuted their use. At the time, nine out of ten 
of his cases involved cards that had been doctored 
with Wite-Out.  
C.P., a bouncer I talked to at Kelly’s Bar on Crown 
Street, confirmed that it’s become more difficult to 
spot illegitimate licenses. He said that while some 
fake IDs are obvious, many have the same technology 
scanning machines and ultraviolet lights screen for. 
“These IDs fool the police,” he said. “A trained 
eye is really your best bet … but nobody can be a 
hundred percent with it, I don’t think. Not at all.” 
Like other bouncers I talked to, C.P. seemed to 
have a defeatist attitude about underage drinking. 
While he used to keep an ultraviolet light on hand to 
check for holograms, he stopped after the batteries 
ran out. He also admitted that he’s sympathetic to 
underclassmen who might feel excluded—he used 
to borrow his older brother’s ID to get into clubs 
when he was younger—and thinks that the drinking 
age should be eighteen. So when he does spot fakes, 
he just gives them back. 
“What could you do?” he said. Theoretically, he 
could call the police. But he doesn’t.
BAR Pizza, another local restaurant, makes an 
earnest effort to combat fake ID use, but with a simi­
larly soft hand. Dan Brodoff, BAR’s manager, told me 
that he’s dedicated to maintaining the venue’s twen­
ty-one-plus environment and requires his bouncers 
to use a booklet of state-issued driver’s licenses to 
screen for fakes. Despite BAR’s self-professed auster­
ity, though, Brodoff tells his bouncers to hand back 
any IDs they catch to avoid legal entanglements or 
alienating future clientele. 
BAR has a reputation among students for being 
particularly strict at the door, but there are a number 
of establishments in New Haven that students feel are 
far more complicit. Amelia told me that the bouncer 
at Box 63 once checked her ID using a scanner and 
admitted her even though her ID didn’t register as 
authentic (the manager at Box 63 declined to com­
ment). Two students also pointed out that Toad’s 
Place has a weekly event on Wednesdays advertised 
as a “Yale Dance Party,” but will accept non-Yale IDs 
from people over twenty-one for a five-dollar charge. 
When I asked a doorman at Toad’s about what 
precautions they take to prevent minors from using 
fakes, she said there was an overhead camera at the 
entrance, but “when it comes to a machine, we don’t 
really enforce it.”
So while it’s true that Yale students are the ones 
who buy and use the fakes, the people accepting 
them don’t seem particularly up in arms about it 
either. The current generation of IDs is highly sophis­
ticated, and in a college town, the revenue that pro­
prietors stand to gain from a lenient approach could 
very well be worth the risk of incurring exorbitant 
fines. If there were any pretense left that the people 
in charge of keeping alcohol away from minors 
regarded their mission as a moral one, my talks with 
local bouncers dispelled it. 
Some students did note that there has been a 
police crackdown on admitting and serving minors 
during their time at Yale. Local liquor store College 



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Spencer Bokat-Lindell**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
passive acceptance of Yale’s fake ID culture that 
often borders on complicity. 

Maybe this isn’t such a bad thing. Maybe 
students can keep wiring money to accounts in 
Guangzhou and sneaking into bars with laissez-
faire bouncers. Maybe Yale can continue to have soft 
punishments for fake IDs, and prosecutors can keep 
letting students off easy. Maybe this strange, unspo­
ken agreement among all parties involved is actually 
a satisfactory equilibrium. The legal system still gets 
to pay lip service to the law, and college can continue 
to remain as fun as it’s always looked in Hollywood 
comedies. And given that an eighteen-year-old can 
legally purchase a gun before they can a gin and 
tonic, New Haven police officers probably have a better 
use for their resources than catching underage drinkers.

But part of me also thinks that the current sys­
tem has problems. For one, it teaches young adults 
that it’s O.K. to have a blatant disregard for the law. 
While that’s not such a bad thing when it comes to 
fake IDs, it’s certainly not an attitude that one would 
want brought to, say, hard drug use or drunk driving. 
Fake IDs have also displayed potential to smooth 
the edges of Yale’s drinking culture, but that leaves 
fewer, perhaps riskier social options for those with­
out them. Yale students don’t need fake IDs to drink 
alcohol, and they won’t as long as some subset of the 
college population is able to buy liquor. Instead, the 
majority of students use their fakes to access social 
spaces, to spend time with friends in bars and clubs. 
For many students, especially as the novelty of dorm 
parties wears off, that kind of drinking is far more 
appealing, and potentially healthier. 

Of course, it’s difficult to generalize as to whe-
ther bar culture is in fact less conducive to dangerous 
drinking patterns, as many students maintained. 
I imagine that there are other campuses drier than 
Yale’s where alcohol is hard to come by and the nearest 
Wine, for example, had its liquor license suspended 
last year and was fined $13,500 for selling to minors. 
Another liquor store near campus called Gag Jr’s, 
which multiple students described as “the place” to 
buy alcohol with a fake, recently started requiring 
two forms of ID from Yale students after police of­
ficers started catching more minors leaving the shop. 
When the store instituted the policy last spring, it 
saw a marked decrease in business, and an employee 
told me that he’s sure that students will soon find 
a way to counterfeit Yale IDs. (John, who recently 
bought alcohol there with his fake ID, simply told 
the cashier that he was a New Haven resident and so 
didn’t have to supply a second form.)

Of the 134 students who had an opinion on 
the matter, eighty-five percent described the general 
policy of New Haven institutions with respect to 
fake IDs as “fairly lenient” or “very lenient.” That 
perceived leniency undoubtedly contributes to the 
openness surrounding fakes on campus. One sopho­
more in Calhoun told me that her English professor 
once invited her to get drinks with him if her “fake 
was good enough,” and C.P. told me that minors 
often ask him which bars in the area are least strict 
about checking IDs. Even if students do get caught 
outside a store or in a raid, the punishment is small, 
so they remain relatively unfazed.

It would be tempting to think that Yale and 
New Haven authorities truly cleave to the idea that 
drinking under the age of twenty-one is harmful, 
but merely do a bad job of enforcing this belief. But 
around Yale’s campus, the law simply lacks the cour­
age of its convictions, and many people in charge—a 
large portion of whom could drink when they were 
eighteen—don’t seem particularly invested in what 
it stands for. From bouncers to prosecutors, there is a 
bar is a car ride away, making off-campus drinking a 
much riskier activity. But for students looking to get 
thoroughly intoxicated at Yale, at least, where alcohol 
flows readily and drunk driving is for the most part 
a nonissue, the wobbly walked path of least resis­
tance seems to bend away from five-dollar shots and 
back towards campus. And as C.P. told me, a lot of 
students he sees get drunk at home and go out after 
“for the environment.” That’s not to say that people 
don’t get wasted in public spaces, but it’s probably 
reasonable to assume that an underage student is 
better off getting a cocktail from a real bar instead of 
from the trigger-happy freshman consigned to pour­
ing vodka from plastic bottles in Saybrook’s over­
crowded, twelve-person party suite. The irony of our 
current drinking laws, though, is that without a fake 
ID, the former avenue is by far the more restricted.

So yes, we could continue like this, in this 
bizarre, liminal space where a significant portion of 
the Yale student body is buying fake IDs and little is 
done to stop it. But this tacit agreement perpetuates 
a culture in which minors who choose not to buy 
fake IDs may find it easier to get a handle of vodka 
or a drink with grain alcohol than to order a glass of 
wine. The drinking age is ostensibly set as high as it 
is because we believe that it will make minors safer, 
but the current environment is such that those who 
want to drink in less precarious spaces can only do 
so if they’re willing to break more laws and jump 
through a number of costly hoops. 

If, as Dow said, the principal crime here is really 
underage drinking, then it’s difficult to condemn 
those who own fakes as being culpable of some 
unique moral transgression without also vilifying ev­
ery Yale student who drinks before the age of twenty-
one. On the other hand, it doesn’t seem fair to place 
an even larger burden on local businesses for not 
playing by the rules when doing so has become vir­
tually impossible. And because such a large portion 
of fake IDs is acquired through massive distributors, 
local authorities simply aren’t equipped to combat 
the source of the problem. 

“What ends up happening is that the law exists,” 
Nora said, “and everyone dances around it.” 

Until someone with much more power than 
college students and bouncers recognizes that this is 
not how a legal system and its citizens are meant to 
interact, a huge portion of the Yale population will 
continue to see fake IDs as a rite of passage, the law a 
half-hearted scarecrow to be made their perch.
– Spencer Bokat-Lindell is a senior 
in Morse College


--- Page 30 ---

30



**Title: For Country? the ‘Renaissance’ of Yale’s Relationship with the U.S. Military**
**Author: Jane Darby Menton**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
T
he seventy-five men and women in blue and black 
uniforms trace the perimeter of the basketball 
court in Payne Whitney Gymnasium with crisp, syn­
chronized movements. As the students march, the pa­
triotic chords of “Anchors Aweigh,” “Off We Go into 
the Wild Blue Yonder,” and the “Marine’s Hymn”—
the traditional songs of the United States Navy, Air 
Force, and Marines—resonate across the gym. 
Row by row, the cadets and midshipmen of Yale’s 
Air Force and Naval Reserve Officer’s Training Corps 
battalions salute Yale President Peter Salovey, the pre­pre­
siding officer for this review late last spring. Wearing 
a plain black blazer in the middle of a row of deco­
rated military uniforms, Salovey cuts a conspicuous 
figure. At one point in Yale’s history, the President’s 
Review was an annual event, but today marks the 
first time in over four decades that Yale’s president 
has presided over a public event honoring students 
who have committed to serving in the United States 
armed forces.
“This is a historic day for the University and for 
ROTC,” Salovey declares. “The spirit of sacrifice that 
links these military men and women is a hallmark of 
the spirit of Yale itself.”  
 “Bright College Years,” Yale’s unofficial alma ma­
ter, famously concludes with the line, “For God, for 
Country, and for Yale.” The middle prepositional phrase 
harkens to a certain noblesse oblige that once compelled 
thousands of Yale men to serve in the United States 
military. 

Relics of this ethos are ubiquitous on campus. Ev­
ery day, students walking through Woolsey Rotunda 
pass the names of hundreds who died serving their 
country. The whale-shaped Ingalls Hockey rink bears 
the name of the U.S. Navy’s only ace pilot (a pilot 
who has shot down five enemy aircrafts) during the 
First World War. The alumni rosters of Yale College in­
clude the class of 1945-War (’45W)—a designation 
for students who completed their undergraduate de­
grees in thirty-one months to ship off more quickly 
to the frontlines of World War II.
Yale became home to one of the country’s six 
original Naval ROTC units in 1916. According to 
a 1917 issue of the Yale Alumni Weekly, approximately 
9,500 Yale students and alumni fought in the First 
World War. During World War II, so many students 
left to join the military that Yale could fill only three 
residential colleges, mostly with men deemed medi­
cally unfit for service. The University rented the other 
seven colleges and Old Campus to the U.S. Military 
for training purposes. In total, 18,678 Yale students 
and alumni served in Word War II—an almost in­
comprehensible statistic today, at a time when few 
Yale students volunteer to serve and the draft is no 
longer in effect. 


At Yale and across the country, disillusionment 
with the armed forces set in as the death toll rose 
in Vietnam. In 1970, while the campus roiled with 
anti-war protests, the University severed ties with 
its strongest institutional attachment to the armed 
forces: the ROTC program. The military’s presence 
on Yale’s campus virtually disappeared, and animosity 
continued for years. In 2005, for example, Yale Law 
School banned military recruiters from their annual 
career fair to protest “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell”—the 
policy barring homosexuals from serving openly in 
the military. The two institutions ultimately spent al­
most two years settling the issue in the court system. 
Ultimately, in 2007, an appeals court forced the Law 
School to choose between allowing military recruit­
ers and forfeiting approximately $300 million in fed­
eral funding, so the recruiters returned to campus.
In the last five years, however reengagement has 
occurred voluntarily and on multiple levels, both of­
ficial and unofficial. The military has become a sig­
nificant presence at Yale once more. In 2012, after the 
repeal of “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell,” the ROTC returned 
to Yale and soon turned into one of the largest and 
fastest-growing student military programs in New 
England. Other changes include the hiring of high-
profile personnel, such as retired U.S. Army General 
Stanley McChrystal, and the uniting of Yale veterans 
in the Yale Veteran’s Association (YVA). In April, the 
YVA—which sought to connect the roughly 10,000 
Yale veterans across the country—hosted the Ivy 
League’s first Veteran’s Summit. 

**Title: The Changing Face of Yale and the Military**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 34-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The new journal 34
tary to campus as just part of the larger process of 
Yale rediscovering this spirit of service that has ex­
isted since Yale’s founding. Berg cites the example 
of Nathan Hale—the famous Yale alumnus who 
was executed for spying on the British during the 
Revolutionary War. 
“If you’d have asked him to scrub toilets for his 
country, he would have scrubbed toilets because, as 
he said, anything done in service of one’s country 
becomes noble in the execution,” Lukas said. “I think 
that’s part of Yale’s heritage.”

This heritage has not always been embraced. 
When military history professor Paul Kennedy ar­
rived at Yale in the 1980s, he remembers a “distinctly 
anti-military culture.” Fueled by anti-Vietnam sen­
timents and concern about the military’s policies 
towards women and LGBTQ people, the majority 
of the student body and faculty saw the military as 
an institution that was fundamentally incompatible 
with Yale’s espoused liberal arts values. 

But time has mitigated many of these concerns. 
“As I see it, there’s been a rebalancing of attitudes at 
Yale, and it’s found itself happening when you could 
say there’s also been a rebalancing of public opinion 
about the military,” Kennedy said.

This new tone has impacted the classroom dy­
namic, allowing for friendlier conversation, accord­
ing to many of the military personnel interviewed for 
this article. Students and teachers alike are far more 
accepting of ROTC’s presence than in decades past. 
Still, Yale’s reputation since the 1970s as an anti-mil­
itary school has caused some of the military recruits 
to approach with apprehension.

Lieutenant Colonel Charles Faint, for example, 
said, “I’m in the military, I’m from the South, I’m 
conservative, and I had no desire to go to what I per­
ceived was going to be an anti-military, anti-South­
ern, gun-hating state and college where I’d just never 
lived before…I was envisioning fist fights with the 
hippies on the green.” 

Faint came to Yale on the Army’s dime in 2011 
to get a master’s degree in Global Affairs so that he 
could return to West Point to teach social studies. 
Though he was not initially interested in attending 
Yale, the presence of General McChrystal—whom he 
worked under in the Joint Special Operations Com­
mand—led him to reconsider. While the atmosphere 
was not as anti-military as he anticipated, he soon 
realized that misconceptions went both ways. “They 
assumed because I’m a white hetero Christian male 
from the South that I’d be anti-gay, that I’d have racial 
animosity…It really was a mutual growing process 
across the two years,” he said.  

Despite the perception that Yale and the military 
make for strange bedfellows, most veterans I talked 
to said the transition from military life to the Uni­
versity was much smoother than they expected. Faint 
attributes this to the nature of academic debate. “We 
could have a knock-down drag-out fight in the class­
room and we’d all be downtown drinking beers af­
terwards,” he said. 

Professor Emma Sky, who teaches seminars on 
the Iraq War and Modern Middle Eastern politics, of­
fered a similar rationale. “The classroom is a safe en­
vironment where people can get to know each other,” 
she explained. “It doesn’t matter if the person is a 
colonel or lieutenant colonel, in the classroom every­
body is equal.” Though her courses are consistently 
oversubscribed, she preferentially admits former ser­
vicemen and women, because she thinks they intro­
duce a valuable perspective about the conflict.

But these positive experiences may also reflect a 
certain degree of self-selection. Many veterans who 
come to Yale pursue fields in which military experi­
ence is valued, such as management, global affairs, or 
area studies. What may be true in these fields might 
not hold consistently across disciplines. 

Adam Keller is a master’s student in the English 
department. He was in Afghanistan in 2012 when he 
received an email from his West Point English teacher, 
a Yale alumna, who encouraged him to get a gradu­
ate degree so that he could come back to West Point 
and teach. After three deployments, both Keller and 
his family were looking for a respite from the con­
stant uncertainty of active duty, so he applied and was 
accepted to Yale’s English literature terminal master’s 
program. Unlike many other Yale veterans, Keller’s 
course of study is a less obvious fit with his mili­
tary background. And unlike his peers, Keller says he 
encountered some hostility from his professors 
and classmates. 

“I know that there were members of the faculty 
who didn’t agree with the fact that I am here,” he 
said. “[There’s] the idea that what I do for a living is 
not consistent with the types of values a humanities 
education is supposed to inculcate.” 

Keller thinks some of the opposition is a mani­
festation of academic insularity—he is the only one 
of his cohort not pursuing a long-term career in tra­
ditional English academia—but he thinks the prima­
ry bent of the animosity is ideological. 

“Yale College still feels more foreign than Afghan­
istan,” he said. 


--- Page 35 ---

SEPTEMBER 2015
35
If you saw Ben Shaver in Book Trader Cafe, with 
his mop of untidy curls and oversized tortoiseshell 
glasses, you probably wouldn’t guess that he’s a for­
mer Marine— he looks like he belongs in Brooklyn, 
not Baghdad. Shaver enlisted in the Marines in 2005, 
immediately after high school. After almost five years 
working in linguistics and intelligence in Iraq, he re­
turned stateside to get a college degree. He spent two 
years at Deep Springs—a two-year, alternative col­
lege in California—and then transferred into Yale’s 
Eli Whitney program for non-traditional students. 
Shaver thinks that Yale’s rejuvenated discourse with 
the military is not as comprehensive as it purports 
to be, because it includes few of the largely working-
class people who put their bodies on the line to carry 
out American foreign policy.

The overwhelming majority of servicemen and 
women on Yale’s campus today are or were members 
of the officer corps, and ROTC graduates follow the 
same path. The officer corps accounts for only 16.4 
percent of the United States military. Enlisted soldiers 
comprise the other 83.6 percent of the United States 
military, and only 5.9 percent of them have a Bach­
elor’s degree or higher.

“To speak of a veteran community at Yale with­
in the undergrad population—it just doesn’t exist,” 
Shaver said. “There are people in the grad schools, 
but they’re not at all representative of the military…
They’re the elite within the command of the military, 
and they’re careerist. Their perspective is different—
they’ve bought in.” 

There are currently over one million American 
college students paying their tuition with GI Bill ben­
efits, but you won’t find many of these veterans at 
élite institutions. According to the New York Times, in 
the 2013-2014 academic year, Brown University 
housed only eleven undergraduate veterans of the 
American armed services; Harvard, four; and Princ­
eton, one. Though Yale will not release the number 
of veterans in the undergraduate community, those 
I talked to were confident that you could count the 
number on one hand. 


--- Page 36 ---

THE NEW JOURNAL
36
Why aren’t there more enlisted veterans at Yale? 
Part of the answer may lie in demographics. More 
than sixty percent of student veterans are first-gen­
eration college students, compared to roughly twelve 
percent of Yale students. According to the most re­
cently available Department of Defense statistics, in 
2007, 42.97 percent of enlisted military recruits 
came from the Southeast and 12.81 percent from the 
Northeast. In comparison, fifteen percent of Yale’s 
class of 2018 is from the Southeast, up to forty-one 
percent from the Northeast. The geographic regions 
from which Yale and the military draw are almost ex­
act inverses of each other.

Shaver thinks his admission to Yale doesn’t nec­
essarily reflect what the reality for most enlisted vet­
erans. “It’s about class dynamics. A big part of the 
military going to college afterwards, these are people 
who probably wouldn’t have gone to college other­
wise. That’s not really my experience…For me it was 
more like I was resuming what would have been my 
life trajectory outside of the military,” he explained.  

Though Yale has made some effort to recruit such 
veterans, for instance, by mailing admissions bro­
chures to the honors societies of community colleges 
and by sending a recruiter to the local Marine base, 
these measures have not amounted to much so far. 
“It’s easy for Harvard or Yale to get complacent 
or content that they have plenty of vets on campus 
just because they have former officers at the business 
school, and nobody really talks about the fact that 
the top schools are doing a not so great job of going 
out and finding the enlisted veterans,” said Jesse Reis­
ing. As a Yale undergraduate, Reising was set to enter 
the Marine Corps upon graduation, but a debilitating 
football injury during his senior year Harvard–Yale 
Game rendered him medically ineligible. Because he 
could not serve, Reising wanted to find another way 
to engage with the military. 

He co-founded the Warrior-Scholar Project, now 
a nationwide academic boot camp designed to ease 
the transition of enlisted veterans to civilian universi­
ties. As part of the Warrior-Scholar Project, veterans 
sleep in Saybrook College dorm rooms, attend classes 
taught by notable Yale professors, and participate in 
panels run by the Yale Admissions Office on the col­
lege application process. Reising thinks that Yale and 
other élite universities can do better. “If someone 
told [veterans] it was possible to go to a top school, 
they could do it. They just need to be told they can,” 
he stated. 

Earlier last semester, I spent a chilly February 
afternoon walking around campus with a group 
of West Point cadets. One of the cadets on the walk 
was sporting a black eye and a set of electric blue 
stitches from an injury sustained during training; 
another was wearing large, black medical sunglasses 
because he had recently undergone Lasik eye surgery 
(20/40 uncorrected vision is required to apply to 
be a military pilot). The cadets’ commanding officer 
was a wiry man in an olive green beret who walked 
with a pronounced limp—the remnant of an old 
battlefield injury. 

Walking around campus with these men in uni­
form, I could feel the curious eyes that followed us. 
One friend jokingly asked what I had done to merit 
such an escort. At the gawtes of Old Campus, another 
group of students came up to ask if the cadets were 
part of the security retinue of some famous person 
visiting campus. Neither of these interactions was 
hostile, but the sight of a large group of people in 
uniform certainly did not go unnoticed. 

Had this been 1946, the cadets could have been 
marching in formation with rifles and nobody would 
have batted an eye. Had this been 1970, the cadets 
would have been targeted by vitriolic protesters. But 
in 2015, the West Point cadets were simply here visit­
ing General McChrystal’s leadership course.

An explosive Rolling Stone article spurred McChrys­
tal’s resignation as the U.S. commander in Afghani­
stan, but the Jackson Institute for Global Affairs in­
vited him to teach at Yale in the wake of the political 
controversy. McChrystal is indicative of the Univer­
sity’s embrace of high-profile military personnel. He 
is now in his fifth year at Yale, and he looks at home 
in his third-floor Hillhouse office. 

When I ask him what role he thinks the military 
recruits play on Yale’s campus today, he answers im­
mediately. “I think they are harbinger of a new future 
at Yale University. I think there’s a different mindset 
growing,” he says. “It’s going to take a while, but I 
“THERE IS THE GERMINATION 
OF THE IDEA OF SERVICE.” 
— STANLEY McCHRYSTAL,
RETIRED U.S. ARMY GENERAL



**Title: FIRST-NAME BASIS**
**Author: Caroline Sydney**
**Page number(s): 37-38**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
T
he text came through from an unknown number: 
“Caroline is here.” It had the ring of a pronounce­
ment made by a footman in a Jane Austen novel. But 
Caroline was already here. For one, I was there. At least 
five other Carolines were also there. I surveyed them 
in my living room, tallying them up. Taking roll. Then 
I went to get the door. Because, well, Caroline was 
here. Which is to say, another Caroline was there. The 
other Carolines waited expectantly to sum up the new 
addition to our set. 

With each arrival, we wanted to know how this 
Caroline would fit into the pantheon. How the name-
bearer bore our name, if she would be worthy of a 
glass of mediocre white wine, tolerant of the gluten 
free vegan cookies I had made to please all the vari­
ous versions of her, regardless of her preferences and 
health needs.

For years I dreamed of hosting an exclusive party 
for every Caroline on campus. I had wanted to meet 
them. I had wanted them to meet each other. I had 
wanted to learn their middle names. At the time, I was 
not aware that the Sams of Yale apparently have an an­
nual standing brunch. At last, this evening had come. 
But my efforts were almost thwarted by one of my 
own—“it’s a Rumpus prank,” a certain Caroline had 
told her friend Caroline, starting a rumor that pre­
vented perhaps a dozen Carolines from discovering 
their other selves. Despite this act of betrayal, the eve­
ning of Saturday, March 28 had arrived, and of the 
twenty-six of us at Yale that spring, nine ultimately 
gathered in my Park Street living room. 

At points in my life, I have felt distinctly not Caro­
line. That the name produced a first impression out 
of line with the one I wanted to create. It seemed too 
prim, too Southern. This stance has mellowed since 
coming to college, a moment at which I could have 
switched to another name but chose not to, mostly 
for the sake of simplicity. I wondered if this evening 
would affirm my decision to remain in the league 
of Carolines.        

Now gathered, when our language mirrored one 
another’s, and it often did, so too would our actions. 
“Caroline” someone would say, and we would all 
turn. In a setting where we were reminded constantly 
that we were Caroline, in every encounter our very 
Caroline-ness was questioned. One Caroline, upon re­
ceiving my email, subject line: “Hello Caroline,” ini­
tially thought it was an email from herself.   

As if seeking to extrapolate my influence in the 
Caroline hierarchy, I constantly did the math on at­
tendees and no-shows. Three Carolines were tied up at 
the Whim concert (two performing, one watching), 
and one wrote to me in advance to apologize for be­
ing out of town, leaving thirteen who were either too 
busy, too cool, or too scared to show up. To those who 
were too scared: should there be a next time, please 
come! To those who were too cool: you are a disgrace 
to your name. If Caroline falls from the Gawker’s rank­
ings of popular Yale names and our numbers dwindle, 
don’t seek solidarity with me. 

You see, as it turned out, the Carolines of Yale do 
in fact have commonalities extending beyond the first 
letter of our net ID. For one, we were all white—an 
uncomfortable, Freakonmics-in-the-wild realization. 
Even with this small sample size, we nearly confirmed 
the inkling that we were on the whole slightly more 
southern than the general Yale population. I anticipat­
ed that discussion would migrate away from Caroline-
centric topics toward standard getting-to-know-you 
discussions, but this never really occurred. After the 
obviously streamlined introductions, conversations 
gravitated back to our established common ground. 
This micro-smalltalk was more amusing and personal 
than garden-variety conversations with strangers. 
Somehow, the opportunities to discuss the impact 
of growing up Caroline never dwindled. We debated 
“Sweet Caroline” versus “Roses” (Neil Diamond beat 
out Outkast by a narrow margin) and the fact that 
Carolyn just isn’t Caroline. It would be unfair to argue 
that anything profound happened in that period of 
just over an hour. A random set of Yale students came 
together on the basis of a chance common denomi­
nator. Yale loves to do this to us, we love to do this to 
ourselves, the cycle continues. We were not so similar 
as to reveal an obvious underlying commonality, pre­
viously invisible outside of this context. Yet, neither 
were we so different that one looking hard enough at 
the Rorschach test of my living room couldn’t come 
up with some generalized conclusions.   

We arranged my laptop for a photo booth picture. 
Unfortunately, no Carolines came prepared with a 
selfie-stick. We invented a hand sign for the occasion: 
double Cs, crossed, Chanel-like, a symbol of our new­
found kinship. Later, on Facebook, someone I don’t 
know would comment on the picture: “I think its re­
ally awesome that yer in the nerdy girl frat.” Well. At 
the very least, we seemed to be friends, and I guess 
that’s saying something, given that many of us were 
complete strangers less than an hour before the flash 
went off.   

Soon after, a Caroline had to go. Once the set had 
broken, the appeal of lingering dwindled. But each of 
us would turn the next time we heard our name called 
now able to imagine at least eight others who might 
respond, knowing that in this encounter we were the 
intended Caroline. 
-Caroline Sydney is a senior in Silliman College
and an editor-in-chief of The New Journal


**Title:  Notes from the Caroline Party**
**Author: Jane Darby Menton**
**Page number(s): 37**

This shared commitment to public service has 
provided the rhetorical common ground for Yale and 
the military. “It’s a desire to serve, this is what charac­
terizes this University,” Salovey declared at the ROTC 
President’s Review. “Within these walls you can hear 
the echoes of history—a love of country, dedication, 
humility, and humanity—echoes that ring out loud 
all around us today.” But, in practice, few Yale stu­
dents enter public sector jobs after graduation. Last 
year, the Office of Career Services survey reported 
that the five largest employers of the class of 2014 
were Goldman Sachs, McKinsey & Company, Bain & 
Company, Microsoft, Boston Consulting Group, and 
Yale University itself. 

Every military affiliate I interviewed was quick 
to say that the military is not the path most Yale stu­
dents will—or should—choose. Still, “the idea of 
service should be something that is implied for Yale 
students,” McChrystal said. Neither the ROTC mem­
bers nor the veterans nor the military faculty want to 
turn back the clock to days when students drilled on 
Old Campus. But they are charged with bridging the 
gap between two powerhouse institutions, amidst 
a student body that is more ambivalent about and 
distanced from the path of service they have chosen 
to take. The people in uniform on campus today are 
only a small section of campus—a far cry from the 
military’s large historical footprint—but, at the very 
least they have started a cordial dialogue between 
those who serve and those who probably never will.
-Jane Darby Menton is a 2015 graduate
of Silliman College


**Title:  Untitled**
**Author: Unknown**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
--- Page 40 ---
