Publication date: April 28, 1968
Volume: one
Issue number: twelve

**MASTHEAD**
- Editor: Daniel H. Yergin
- Publisher: Peter Yaeger
- Executive Editor: Jeffrey Pollock
- Designer: Ronald Gross
- Photography Editor: Herman Hong
- Advertising Manager: Jeffrey Denner
- Associate Editors: Susan Braudy, Jonathan Lear
- Circulation Manager: Jean-Pierre Jordan
- Copy Editor: Alan Wachtel
- Classifieds: William M. Burstein
- Contributing Editors: Jonathan Aaron, Mopsy S. Kennedy, Michael Lerner, Michael Mandelbaum, Steven Weisman
- Staff: John Boak, Paul Bennett, Peter M. C. Choy, Joseph Fincke, Jennifer Josephy, Larry Lasker, Christopher Little, Jonathan Marks, Howard Newman, Barney Rubin, James Scherer, Warner Wada, Michael Waltuch, Bruce Mcintosh
- Advertising: Joe Ambash, Bill Gerber, Jeffrey Harrison, Jon Hoffman, John Jeffries, Chris Moffit, Howie Newman, Will Rhodes, Edmund Robinson, Roger Sametz, Sam Sutherland, Steve Weise, Jeff Wheelright, Rick Wilson


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- Vassar-Yale: what happened? - Ellen Chesler, Steven Weisman and Michael Winger
- Beyond the fringe: Yale misses the crisis in urban education - James Vivian
- Eric Sherman films Charles Lloyd's journey within - Jeffrey Pollock
- Book review: The village in the Vietnamese War - Samuel Popkin
- This particular war - A. Dwight Culler


**Title: Vassar-Yale: what happened?**
**Author: Ellen Chesler, Steven Weisman and Michael Winger**
**Page number(s): 3**

"Remember when Vassar was going to move to 
New Haven?"

"Yes."

"You want to know the whole intricate, messy, detail-ridden 
story inside out?"

"Yes. Yes."

"Read on."


On an overcast morning last November 
12, Alan Simpson, seventh President of 
Vassar, grabbed his camel-hair topcoat 
and drove out of Poughkeepsie in Vassar's 
green station 'Wagon on his way to meet 
Kingman Brewster Jr., seventeenth 
president of Yale. 

For Simpson, this was the last chance to 
salvage the Vassar-Yale affiliation, an 
arrangement that, for six months, 
colleagues and advisors bad been saying 
was doomed to fail. 

Suppose Vassar set up experimental 
undergraduate branches in New Haven to 
study special topics like Man and his 
Environment, while Vassar herself stayed 
in Poughkeepsie? Simpson needed an 
answer. 

Brewster told him the Yale Corporation 
would accept the compromise only if 
Vassar would gradually complete the 
move to New Haven. 

Simpson was not able to agree. 

Eight days later, November 20, the 
Vassar president was on the road again, 
this time driving to New York City to meet 
with his trustees. Simpson, who had never 
before been late for a trustee meeting, 
miscalculated his departure time 
from Poughkeepsie, and so was sitting in a 
traffic jam on the East Side Highway and 
not in the midtown offices of Morgan 
Guaranty Trust at 9: 30 in the morning, 
when the meeting was scheduled to begin. 

He might well have wished that be could 
stay in the traffic jam all day. 

Once he arrived at the meeting, it took 
the trustees a perfunctory thirty minutes 
to vote down Vassar's move to Yale. 

Simpson, the staunchest advocate from 
the beginning, voted no, to make the 
decision unanimous. Then he drove back 
to Poughkeepsie. There he had to read a 
trustee-written statement -
first to the 
faculty, then to student leaders, and finally 
to the entire student body. 

Vassar's decision, Simpson read each 
time, was motivated by "loyalty to a place 
as beautiful as ours, confidence in the 
future of our region, desire to be mistress 
in our own house, our commitment to 
women's education, and faith in the 
Vassar spirit of discovery of new paths of 
excellence." He also revealed general 
proposals for graduate institutes and a 
men's college. 

"Full speed ahead in Poughkeepsie," be 
concluded each time. 

When the students heard the news, half 
of them broke out in applause; some 
hissed and booed. When the faculty heard 
the news, a gruff department chairman 
who had opposed the move rose to say he 
felt "uniquely privileged to be present at 
this historical turning point." 

"You bet it's a historical turning point," 
mutttered a young teacher to a colleague. 
"Like the day the Roman Empire decided 
the Barbarians could come live on the 
near side of the Rhine."


Ellen Chesler, former managing editor of 
the Vassar Miscellany News, is a junior at 
Vassar. She has worked as a reporter for 
NBC News. Steven Weisman, 
contributing editor of The New Journal, 
is a Yale senior. He has written for 
The Wall Street Journal and The New 
York Times. Micluul Wingu, a first year 
student in the Yale Law School, has 
worked as a reporter for The Wall Street 
Journal and The Chicago Daily News. 


A scant eleven months earlier, 
optimistic backers of the Vassar move had 
thought most of the problems were merely 
mechanical. But they weren't prepared for 
the aggressive resistance from the Vassar 
faculty and the Vassar alumnae, who 
proved as effective as bees at protecting 
their hive. For these two groups, the move 
was a matter, if not of life and death, at 
least of prestige and status; and certainly 
it threatened that special nostalgia one 
feels for the places of one's youth. 

The next eleven months were a period 
of proliferating committees, hardening 
attitudes, and a powerful and finally 
successful rear-guard battle by Vassar 
faculty and alumnae to preserve Vassar's 
identity- though no one could ever say 
very well what that identity was. 

But long before it was officially over, 
strangled to death by committees, the 
Vassar-Yale affiliation was threatening to 
split Vassar apart into irreconcilable 
factions. It was the seriousness of those 
splits that make it possible now to see that 
the affiliation was already a failure by the 
spring of 1967, a half-year before the final 
death throes. 


"Like Athena," Mary McCarthy has 
written, "Vassar College sprang in full 
battle-dress from the brow of a man." 

Vassar was founded in 1861 by Matthew 
Vassar, a wealthy Poughkeepsie brewer, 
to be "a college which shall be for young 
women what Yale and Harvard are to 
young men." 

Indeed, for many years Vassar was very 
nearly that. By the mid-twentieth century, 
however, graduate education had become 
an important part of American higher 
education. Vassar was not part of that 
change; like all liberal arts colleges, and 
especially women's colleges, she was 
having trouble competing for money to 
attract good teachers and good students. 

Vassar's sixth president, Sarah Gibson 
Blanding, a rugged Kentuckian whose 
retirement gift from Vassar was a tractor, 
said publicly in 1961 that ninety per cent 
of women's colleges would within 25 
years become coeducational or enlist in 
universities. 

At Yale, meanwhile, pressure for 
coeducation was building, and President 
A. Whitney Griswold sometimes 
remarked that if someone gave Yale $50 
million, he would be delighted to 
undertake the education of women. 

In 1961, Morris Hadley, a Yale trustee 
married to a Vassar trustee, suggested to 
Griswold and to Miss Blanding that the 
two schools join forces in New Haven. It 
seemed a far-fetched idea. Nonetheless, 
Miss Blanding traveled to New Haven, 
where she and Griswold, golf cap atop his 
head, wandered up and down Prospect 
Street, looking at the old houses and trees 
and wondering how the street would look 
with Vassar on it. 

They wondered enough to call a secret 
joint meeting of trustees from both 
schools in a New York women's club. But 
enthusiasm was slight, obstacles were 
clear, and the project was dropped. From 
1961 to 1966, the Vassar-Yale idea 
bloomed only in cocktail party 
conversations that were fondly recalled 
during 1967. ("So I said to him on 
Founder's Day, 'Well, why don't we move 
Vassar to New Haven?' It seemed so 
absurd at the time.")



**Title: Beyond the fringe: Yale misses the crisis in urban education**
**Author: James Vivian**
**Page number(s): 10**

(This article's content is not available on the provided page scans.)


**Title: Eric Sherman films Charles Lloyd's journey within**
**Author: Jeffrey Pollock**
**Page number(s): 12**



**Title: Book review: The village in the Vietnamese War**
**Author: Samuel Popkin**
**Page number(s): 14**



**Title: This particular war**
**Author: A. Dwight Culler**
**Page number(s): 15**



**Title: Report**
**Author: Derek Shearer**
**Page number(s): 2**

In Comment: Girls pose number one 
problem for male Yale, Crusader 
Nader picks on the Big Guy, Bobby 
tapped by Bobby biographer, Black 
Arts get angry, and Yale screen set for 
film festival. 


The final section of a 55-page report re-
leased this week by the Student Committee 
on Teaching concludes that "co-education 
is not only the greatest overall need of the 
University-greatest in terms of Yale's 
possibilities for service to the nation or 
maintaing Yale's world prominence-but 
that it is, more precisely, Yale's most press-
ing educational necessity." 


The report, entitled "Issues of Educa-
tional Reform," also deals with such 
topics as "Free Time," "Departmental 
Structure" and "Students in Educational 
Planning." Short essays which provide 
historical background and careful analysis 
of issues are followed by numerous recom-
mendations for the reform of education 
at Yale. 

The Student Committee on Teaching, a 
branch of the Student Advisory Board, 
owes its existence to the Steering Com-
mittee Report of 1966, commonly known 
as the Dahl report, which responded to the 
furor over the denial of tenure to a popular 
young philosophy teacher in the spring of 
1965. In the past year both the Student 
Committee on Teaching and the Student 
Advisory Board have become increasingly 
emphatic in their criticism of Yale educa-
tion and the University structure--demon-
strating a serious concern on the part of 
students for integral participation in the 
affairs of the University. 

Under the general editorship of James 
L. Kugel, a senior majoring in comparative 
literature, the members of the Student 
Committee carried out extensive research 
on educational problems and then met 
weekly to discuss their findings. Out of 
this six-month work came the booklet 
which bas been widely distributed to 
various Yale faculty and student com-
mittees. Interested students and teachers 
can obtain copies of the teaching report 
from residential co!Jege deans' offices or 
the Yale College dean's office. 

The teaching report deserves careful 
attention from aiJ members of the Yale 
community, for it raises vital questions 
about the need for "increased flexibility" 
and "guided opportunity" in the organiza-
tion of Yale and its educational offerings. 

As many critics of American education 
have realized, formal education too often 
deadens the mind instead of making it 
alive to the possibilties of critical thinking 
and imagination. It is toward this goal-
the recognition of the diversity of Yale's 
students and teachers and a provision for 
their needs and interests--that the student 
report is aiming. Indeed, the quality of the 
teaching report itself argues well for the 
ability of the Yale student to take on 
greater responsibility for his own educa-
tion and a larger role in University de-
cision-making. 

The overall theme of the report is the 
"belief that all parts of college life bear 
on Yale's educational strength." As James 
Kugel reminds us in the concluding 
paragraph of the booklet, it is necessary 
to have order in the university, but one 
must be aware of that order and of its 
limits. "The University must have as much 
flexibility and as many opportunities as it 
can, so that when its order draws a line, it's 
a line, not a barrier." 

Derek Shearer Yale College 


**Title: Nader**
**Author: Tom Harmon**

Nader 

Ralph Nader spoke at the Law School 
Forum on April 10. His topic was "Legal 
Practice: Is the Old Order Crumbling?" 

"No, it isn't," says Nader, "but it should 
be." Naturally enough, Nader makes 
people nervous. The tall, intense young 
man at the rostrum was hitting his audience 
of Law School students and undergrad-
uates in some sensitive places. The boys 
heading for $15,000 with the big firms 
down on Wall Street kept quiet during the 
question period. The convinced fans, 
however, were also there with their "tell us 
more, Ralph ... "questions. 

Nader filled in the ftamework of his 
title with stories about ex-FBI men with 
Xerox copies and indelible memories 
bumping into each other in Washington 
alleys while spying on the avowed enemy 
of their corporate employers. His descrip-
tion of Harvard Law School, circa 1958, 
as a human wasteland of nervous young 
men with proto-corporate spirits brought 
much delight to the young Yale lawyers-
to-be. 

Nader has a ready wit, the kind which 
gives a touch of grace to authentically 
intense people. It is this wit, together with 
his unbridled, fact-filled, articulate de-
pictions of corporate America at work that 
makes Nader such a winning polemicist. 

His style, coupled with his analysis of the 
problems of Americans today, is devastat-
ingly effective. 

The analysis not complex. He needs no 
devil theory. American business today is 
essentially dictating a very limited role to 
the consumer. Business, unions and gov-
ernment were historically countervailing 
elements of power, each articulating the 
interests of a particular group. But today 
the Jines are blurred. Business can still 
rationalize away almost any obstacles in 
its quest for the corporate goals of manage-
ment reputation and profit. But unions and 
government today are no longer effective 
opponents or watchdogs where consumers 
and many minority groups are concerned. 

The friendliness of government and 
business is best seen in the New York-
Washington-Boston axis of large private 
law firms, whose members move easily 
back and forth between business clientele 
and government positions. The result is a 
massive pool of wealthy legal talent with 
blurred double constituencies. The con-
sumer is on the outside. 

The title of a history of American labor, 
says Nader, could be From Company 
Union to Company Union in Two Gen-
erations. The unions have, as Robert 
Kennedy used to say, "grown fat and sleek 
with power." The less fortunate are left 
behind when unemployment or disability 
prevent the continued payment of dues. 

A classic example of the easy relation-
ship of business, labor and government can 
be seen in one of Nader's current hot 
potatoes-the problem of lung disease 
among coal miners. One quarter of the 
industry's workers suffer progressive dis-
ability from prolonged exposure to coal 
dust; yet the coal companies, the United 
Mine Workers and the Bureau of Mines all 
agree that there is no such problem, at 
least as far as their responsibility extends. 

No one is legally responsible for these men 
or for preventing further disability. As 
business, govenment and labor chant to-
gether, like the robber barons, "No One 
Made Them Do the Work," these men 
have no legal voice to speak for them. 

·This is where Nader's "consumer in-
terest" firm has its role. 

American Indians, coal miners, people 
Jiving near natural gas and oil pipelines, 
the American motorist and on and on-
who speaks for them? Surely Betty Furness 
won't turn the tide. There should be law 
firms outside of government, funded by 
foundations and disinterested private 
sources, that can serve as a compensating 
force to the present unopposed legal cadres 
on the questions of consumer rights and the 
public interest of minorities disadvantaged 
by government, business and union prac-
tices. These firms would research, solicit 
and bring suit against corrupt and 
negligent businesses. 

Public interest law firm lawyers can 
expect low pay, low status and a very 
heavy work load. They will be under 
constant surveillance by corporate detec-
tive agencies, and so they must add the 
extra burden of an impeccable private life. 

Who would be willing to lead such a life? 
Nader answered this one directly for the 
law students. It takes one essential per-
sonal quality-:---eonviction. 

Tom Harmon Yale College 


**Title: Shannon**
**Author:  (Author not specified)**

Shannon 

Recently, William Shannon not only gave 
an incomprehensibly small audience in 
Morse College his incisive predictions for 
the 1968 Presidential race, but also 
speculated on the future of American 
politics with a display of far-ranging 
familiarity with the tides of American 
political history. 

Before getting down to the serious part 
of his speech, Shannon, a member of the 
New York Times editorial board, let his 
audience know that LBJ's withdrawal 
wasn't surprising for a man who "wasn't a 
paranoiac, but only a Grade-B neurotic 
like the rest of us." 

Shannon foresaw Robert Kennedy de-
feating Eugene McCarthy in Oregon and 
California (unless the Minnesota Senator 
has "a pipeline to God") and then going on 
to defeat Nixon in November. Shannon 
is the author of The Heir Apparent, a biog-
raphy of Kennedy. He cautioned, however, 
that riots this summer would boost Ken-
nedy's popularity, unless they get totally 
out of hand-which would eventually 
benefit Humphrey. 

Shannon said that he himself would 
vote for McCarthy "out of curiosity" about 
how a "real inte!Jectual," unlike Stevenson 
or John Kennedy, would handle the presi-
dency. But he did not think that the general 
public shared his curiosity. 

Shanon showed himself to be more than 
a journalistic observer with his references 
to the politics of the 1840's and the 1850's, 
continued on page 19 



**Title: The Vassar-Yale Affair**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 4-6**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
41 The New Journal I April28, 1968 
Alan Simpson thought the move to New 
Haven would offer Vassar a way out of its 
crisis. He miscalculated. 

Kingman Brewster climbs into a Yale plane 
to fly to Poughkeepsie. Meetings were 
scrupulously alternated between Pough-
keepsie and New Haven. But it didn't do 
any good. 

Alan Simpson arrived at Vassar in 1964 
from Chicago. Witty and urbane, Simpson 
at 55 speaks with an English accent 22 
years after leaving England. He's a wry 
man who once told a startled alumnae 
group, "When Vassar women are middle-
aged they should have something better to 
do than play bridge and fornicate." A 
respected historian, Simpson had been an 
effective dean at the University of 
Chicago, but he came to Vassar tired of 
universities and their emphasis on 
professional scholarship. "He'd had it with 
Chicago," a friend remembers. 

His inaugural address at Vassar, which 
haunted him throughout the Vassar-Yale 
affair, celebrated the virtues of a four-year 
liberal education away from scholarly 
professionalism. He praised women's 
education and revealed that he had read 
widely on the subject of women and had 
even made a trip to Russia to see what 
kind of life women lead there. 

But his first years at Vassar were in 
some ways disillusioning. Four years after 
the inaugural was given, Simpson refused 
to release it for a book of essays, saying 
that he had changed his mind. 

"After Alan had been here for a while, 
he became aware of a tremendous laxity 
at Vassar," one of his associates said 
recently. "He saw- like some of the rest 
of us -
that we were mostly very dull." 

Indeed, Vassar had sat in her corner, 
while the other Seven Sisters were busy 
creating ties with nearby colleges. This 
isolation helps explain why she ranks near 
the bottom of the Seven Sisters on both 
college board scores and number of 
applicants. Kingman Brewster said, 
shortly after the Vassar-Yale Study was 
announced, "Of all the first-rate women's 
colleges, Vassar is one of the few that does 
not have a natural dancing partner in its 
own neighborhood." 

More than this, Simpson found 
relatively little concern at Vassar over the 
college's future. Many young faculty 
members didn't care much because they 
often moved on after two or three years. 
And many older Vassar professors, some 
of them alumnae, were simply accustomed 
to and liked the Vassar they knew. 

But if Simpson's views on the relevance 
of Vassar's liberal education changed, his 
view of Vassar women did not. According 
to one associate, he continued to think of 
Vassar alumnae as women like Mary 
McCarthy- the independent, spirited 
writer who graduated from Vassar in 
193 3. Simpson was never quite able to 
reconcile this image with the near-
hysterical reaction of many Vassar 
alumnae to the Yale proposal. 

Simpson bad further problems. He was 
a more forceful president than his 
predecessors, more forceful than many 
older professors thought he had any right 
to be. 

There were some, however, who shared 
Simpson's concerns over Vassar's future. 
In the spring of 1966, trustee board 
president John Wilkie, who is president of 
the Central Hudson Gas and Electric 
Company, sent the other trustees a memo 
filled with questions about what 
sort of future the college should 
have. And in late October, 1966, 
the board set up a New Dimensions 
Committee to consider I 3 specific ideas, 
including coeducation, a four-year M.A. 
program and cooperation with other 
schools. The committee included six 
professors, five trustees, four deans and 
two non-voting students. But the New 
Dimensions Committee organized itself 
slowly; and so in December, 1966, an 
affiliation with Yale finally seemed to offer 
Vassar a way out of her lethargy and 
depression. 

At Yale the first official statement about 
coeducation after the secret Blanding-
Griswold stroll came in the Freshman 
Year Report of 1963. "We think Yale has 
a national duty, as well as a duty to itself, 
to provide the rigorous training for 
women that we supply for men," the 
report said. 

Kingman Brewster Jr. became president 
of Yale in 1964, the same year Simpson 
came to Vassar. In his first years he did 
little more for the Yale-Vassar dream 
than repeat Griswold's private promise to 
act if someone kicked in the money. But 
in early 1966, Brewster told Lanny J. 
Davis, scrappy Yale Daily News 
chairman, that he wanted the Yale 
Corporation to state officially the 
University's interest in educating women. 
In March of that year, Brewster got his 
statement. It didn't say much, except that 
Yale preferred a coordinate college to 
women in Yale College itself. But that 
was more than Yale had ever said before. 

During that spring, the News began its 
coeducation forum, edited by Frederick I. 
Taft, whose mother, Frances Taft, became 
president of the Vassar Alumnae in 1966 
and an eventual opponent of a Vassar 
move. The forum included statements on 
coeducation, mostly in favor of it, from 
about 20 educators. The readers agreed: 
a News poll found that eighty per cent of 
the undergraduates and even more of the 
faculty wanted coeducation. 

That fall, Brewster announced that Yale 
had received an anonymous grant to 
support something called "a special study 
into the needs of potential improvements 
in undergraduate education for women in 
America." Edna Rostow, wife of the 
former dean of the Yale Law School, 
Eugene Rostow, was named to head the 
study. Unfortunately for the study, if not 
for the nation, Eugene was summoned to 
Washington one week later to aid his 
brother Walt in the struggle for freedom 
in Asia, and Yale said goodbye to Edna. 
No replacement was announced. 

Then came the man whom Sam 
Chauncey, Brewster's assistant, calls 
Mr. X. This Mr. X fixed Brewster and 
Simpson up for a date to discuss 
affiliation. Although neither will identify 
the matchmaker, bets are on Julius 
Stratton, a member of Vassar's board of 
trustees and a good friend of Brewster's 
since the days when Brewster was a 
Harvard law professor and Stratton the 
president of MIT. Stratton, now chairman 
of the Ford Foundation, will neither 
confirm nor deny the rumor. 

Simpson, Brewster and Mr. X dined 
together on December 4, 1966, in New 
York- on neutral ground. (Later 
meetings were also held in New York or 
were scrupulously alternated between the 
two schools.) 

Three days later, Simpson road-tripped 
to New Haven, where he toured the Yale 
campus, finally agreeing with Brewster to 
present the idea to the respective boards 
of trustees. At Vassar, on December 14, 
the entire board met to approve the 
proposal. Simpson called it "daunting and 
dazzling." 

That night Simpson called Brewster,


S I The New Journal! April28, 1968 
who spoke from a telephone in the 
kitchen at Trumbull College, where he 
had been meeting with students. Simpson 
said his board had accepted the invitation 
that Brewster was now supposed to 
extract from his Corporation. "It's up to 
you now," said Simpson. Brewster had 
taken no chances; he had already 
contacted most of his board and, at New 
York's Commonwealth Club two days 
later, the Yale Corporation approved the 
study. 

Only 12 days passed from the first 
Brewster-Simpson tete-a-tete to the final 
Yale approval. The presidents had hurried 
to prevent news from leaking out before 
everyone had formally agreed. Simpson 
feared a leak might lead to rumors among 
sensitive alumnae and faculty that the 
proposal was more than a proposal. 

But there was a leak anyway. The best 
sources indicate that Yale trustee John 
Hay Whitney accidentally mentioned the 
news at a Washington cocktail party 
where reporters overheard it. The leak 
could also have resulted from the fuss 
surrounding Mayor John Lindsay's 
interruption of his morning schedule to 
attend a special meeting of the Yale 
Corporation. 

As Washington Post reporters began 
phoning contacts at Vassar, the Vassar 
administration realized the story was out 
and advanced Simpson's announcement 
to the faculty to the next morning. Letters 
went out immediately, telling faculty to 
gather at ten on Saturday. 

What followed was a comedy of errors. 
The emergency faculty meeting tipped 
off the New York Times Vassar 
correspondent, who called New York to 
tell Fred Hechinger, the Times education 
editor, that something was up. When 
Steve Kezerian, head of the Yale News 
Bureau, called Hechinger later in the day 
to alert him to a major announcement for 
Monday, Hechinger jumped the gun and 
guessed it had to do with Vassar. 

Kezerian confirmed the guess and filled 
Hechinger in on the details. 

With the details he got from Kezerian 
and a reporter he had dispatched to 
Vassar, Hechinger wrote his story. At a 
dinner party later in the evening, he 
decided to call Simpson, a personal friend, 
to tell him the story would have to be 
moved up to the next morning's paper. A 
surprised Simpson first pleaded with 
Hechinger to hold the story at least until 
Sunday. Simpson was in a precarious 
position with alumnae and faculty, who 
would have wanted to hear about the 
proposal first from Vassar, not The New 
York Times. When Hechinger explained 
why he couldn't hold the story, Simpson 
gave him more details. After phoning the 
material into The Times, Hechinger went 
back to dinner. But before he could begin, 
Brewster called him with more 
information from Yale. Hechinger called 
the latest news into his office and went 
back to his soup, which was now cold. 

Back in Poughkeepsie, Alan Simpson 
never finished his soup. He spent the rest 
of his evening hurriedly calling important 
Vassar people, trying to cushion the shock 
the morning's papers would bring. But he 
couldn't call all 20,000 alumnae or all 200 
faculty members at Vassar. 

The Friday evening before Simpson's 
announcement, a group of Vassar junior 
faculty members were having cocktails at 
an apartment on 'Raymond A venue. They 
wondered why they had suddenly been 
told to come to an emergency meeting the 
next morning. 

"Maybe Vassar's moving to Yale," one 
teacher joked. 

Everyone laughed. 

The news of the Vassar-Yale study caught 
everyone by surprise. In Poughkeepsie, 
hundreds of girls in Shetlands and 
dungarees interrupted late morning coffee 
to assemble outside the Main Building 
cheering for Alan Simpson, their 
president, and singing choruses of "Boola 
Boola" and the Whiffenpoof Song. At one 
o'clock, somebody rang the ceremonial 
bell in the tower atop Main, and Simpson 
stood on a balcony, framed by banners: 
"Beat Harvard" and "Wisdom and Men" 
(from the school motto, "Wisdom and 
Purity"). Simpson grinned as he tried to 
cool down the frenzy. "No one is going 
anywhere yet," he said paternally as the 
girls hissed. A headline in Monday's 
Vassar Miscellany News giggled: "For 
God, for Country, for Yale and Vassar." 

In Manhattan that Saturday morning, 
a senior editor of Life named Dorothy 
Seiberling, Vassar '43, stared at her New 
York Times and wept. And in New 
Haven, a young auburn-haired French 
instructor named Eve Katz, Radcliffe '59, 
saw the huge New Haven Journal-Courier 
headlines and thought it was good news. 
They would never undertake a study like 
this unless the move were definitely going 
to take place, she thought. From 
Cleveland, Frances P. Taft, director of 
the Vassar Associate Alumnae, told a 
student reporter, "It couldn't have 
happened to two nicer schools." In Paris, 
Mary McCarthy said, "They deserve each 
other." 

The city of Poughkeepsie registered 
horrified disapproval. Mayor Richard 
Mitchell proposed an immediate study of 
the possibility of Yale's moving to 
Poughkeepsie. Suddenly, local people 
realized how much Vassar's presence adds 
to the cultural fabric of Poughkeepsie and 
Dutchess County, plus the estimated six 
million dollars the college annually adds 
to the local economy. Thus a local 
newspaper declared that residents could 
"no longer take Vassar for granted. We 
cherish the college, we will do anything in 
our power to keep it here." 

Local legislators dutifully introduced a 
spate of bills which would keep Vassar in 
New York. Vassar officials tended to 
discount some of the proposals as 
gestures. Meanwhile, some local 
merchants argued in the newspapers. One 
said ninety percent of his business was 
with Vassar; another retorted: "I'd be 
glad to see Vassar girls' checks go 
bouncing elsewhere." 

In New Haven, Yale people took the 
proposal in stride. Brewster didn't speak 
to his faculty until January. Students 
spoke eagerly, but there were no rallies. 
And when everyone returned from winter 
vacation in January, the Yale Daily News 
ran stories for four days and stopped. 
"People are getting tired of it," said 
Managing Editor John Brim, and they 
were. They took it for granted that Vassar 
would move, but that nothing would 
happen while they were still at Yale. 

In Poughkeepsie, Alao Simpson was 
beginning to suffer from the confusion 


61 The New Journal I April28, 1968 
These are trees. Not just any trees. These are 
Vassar trees and Vassar trees are one big 
reason that Vassar didn't move to Yale. 

surrounding the original hasty 
announcement. The very assumptions that 
the Vassar-Yale Study would work from 
remained unclear. 

What was the study studying? 

According to the first official statement, 
the investigation would cover both the 
desirability and the feasibility of moving 
Vassar to Ne-w: Haven. But Brewster 
explained things differently at a Yale 
faculty meeting in January. The minutes 
of the meeting read: "Implicit in the study 
is the assumption that if union appears 
feasible both Vassar and Yale would favor 
such an occurrence." At Yale, one could 
say desirability was taken for granted: at 
Vassar-well, it all depended. Sometimes 
Simpson did seem to take it for granted, 
as when he told student leaders, "Vassar 
needs Yale," and called the Yale project 
"this happy fruition." But Simpson 
discovered quickly that with his partly 
suspicious and partly hostile faculty he 
should stick to the idea of the original 
announcement, that the study was to 
determine both desirability and feasibility. 

Brewster recognized these 
contradictions but dismissed them in an 
interview as "merely a reflection of a 
difference in political climate." What 
Brewster didn't see was how the ambiguity 
would anger the Vassar faculty, making 
Simpson's job even more troublesome. 

Simpson was in a difficult position: he 
had to play both leading advocate and 
objective judge, and he couldn't play both 
roles to very ma.ny people's satisfaction. 

Simpson blundered early in making his 
appointments to the Study Committee 
Staff. The key members were new to 
Vassar, and the faculty resented that. 
Vice-President James Ritterskamp was in 
his first year in Poughkeepsie; George 
Langdon, presidential assistant, was in his 
third year; and Dean of the Faculty Nell 
Eurich was well into her third week. Mrs. 
Eurich headed the academic side of <the 
study for Vassar. 

A hummingbird of a woman, Nell 
Eurich had over twenty years of 
experience in academic administration, 
most recently as a dean at New College in 
Sarasota, Florida. But her scholarly 
achievements were sparse. She turned 
out to be the big surprise among 
Simpson's appointees, for she reportedly 
became the only Staff member to oppose 
the move. But faculty opponents did not 
at first realize that Nell Eurich might be 
on their side; they regarded her and all the 
others as advocates of the move rather 
than impartial investigators. 

Simpson made a bigger blunder when 
he circumvented the spirit, if not the fact, 
of the Governance, the Vassar faculty's 
bill of rights, by appointing his own 
committee to advise the Staff about 
faculty opinion. Because the Governance 
declares that the faculty has final say over 
"educational policy," committees are the 
way of life at Vassar. There's an old 
saying that if the Second Coming were 
announced for tomorrow, Vassar would 
elect a committee to look into the matter. 
There's even a committee to oversee the 
committees. 

Although Simpson's Appointed 
Committee was weighted with 
distinguished professors, the Vassar 
faculty objected. It wanted to elect its own 
committee. Within a week after Simpson 
announced his appointments, protests 
were voiced, and ballots were distributed 
through the mail; and within another 
week, the faculty had its own Elected 
Committee, composed mostly of people 
opposed to the move. For the rest of the 
year, the two committees competed for 
Nell Eurich's Wednesday afternoons, 
when she would carefully spend an hour 
with one and then an hour with the other. 
The Elected Committee also met regularly 
with Elizabeth Daniels, the dean of 
studies who was in her turn chairman of 
the New Dimensions Committee. 

Simpson was stung by the creation of 
the Elected Committee as well as by 
general criticisms of his Appointed 
Committee. He had not expected faculty 
obstruction to come so quickly and with 
such force. He bad anticipated that his 
senior faculty would be reluctant to move 
late in their careers from pastoral 
Poughkeepsie, with its college-provided 
housing, to the insecurity of rented 
apartments under a layer of New Haven's 
industrial soot. But he had underestimated 
how much the faculty would fear being 
"second-class citizens" at Yale, without 
the right to teach in the graduate school. 

Simpson wanted the Yale proposal to 
be studied independently of an emotional 
public debate. He kept telling his 
professors that they would have their "day 
in court," but many refused to trust him. 
They saw only a Brewster-Simpson 
conspiracy. 

Also contributing to their resistance 
was a statement in January by former 
Vassar President Henry Noble 
McCracken, author of two books on the 
history of Dutchess County, who still had 
influence with older faculty members and 
alumnae. He said "big money" was behind 
the Vassar-Yale Study. The 87-year-old 
McCracken, president from 1915 to 1946, 
didn't hide his opposition. 

Simpson's first series of setbacks made 
it clear the proposal was in trouble. By 
March, over six months before the first 
rejection, one member of the Staff, Clyde 
Griffen, was saying that his personal count 
showed overwhelming faculty opposition 
to the Vassar move. "They're against it," 
he would say unhappily, as he counted 
names of important Vassar teachers on 
his fingers. "My guess is that the faculty is 
against the idea by sixty per cent." 

Vassar's twenty thousand graduates also 
caused Simpson headaches. He spent the 
spring racing around the country 
lecturing to alumnae meetings, but his 
reception was unenthusiastic. The 
following summer, one alumna, on a tour 
around the world, stepped into a Buddhist 
shrine and prayed that Alan Simpson be 
struck down. 

After an initial letter in December to 
. about 200 alumnae officials, Simpson 
tried to get his message across in a 
February Alumnae Magazine letter which 
asked: "Which of us could resist the 
excitement of building Vassar College a 
new home?" Apparently almost everyone 
could; it seemed that only the opponents 
were willing to beat any drums. Simpson 
responded to the sniping by defending the 
idea of a move to Yale. But he only made 
matters worse as he convinced people 
that, just as they suspected, the trustees 
were already certain of the move's 
desirability. 

For Simpson the alumnae response was 
a bitter blow. He didn't understand it-
it was not what he had expected from 
Mary McCarthy's classmates- and in. 
March he returned from a California tnp 
and chastised his critics. "For any alumna 
to organize opposition to this study before


**Title: Vassar's Decision**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 7-9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
71 The New Journal ! Apri128, 1968 
it has come to any conclusions," Simpson 
said, "is a betrayal of the essence of a 
Vassar education." It was like Dean Rusk 
trying to hold off the Senate Foreign 
Relations Committee. Within a month, 
a group called Alumnae for Vassar's 
Future organized anyway, headed by Life 
editor Dorothy Seiberling, and took a 
full-page insertion in the Alumnae 
Magazine. The ad asked in big, bold 
letters, "Is This Trip Necessary?" and 
then explained why it wasn't, even quoting 
from a Yale Daily News editorial which 
accused Yale of "shortchanging" its 
undergraduates. The advertisement 
concluded with a one-word plea: "Write." 
The alumnae did write. Their magazine 
printed 62 letters as the study 
progressed -
most of them opposed. 

Vassar Trustee Chairman John Wilkie 
was receiving a dozen letters a day for a 
while, and still more cascaded into the 
offices of Simpson and other trustees, most 
of them also opposed. 

A popular vehicle for expressing 
alumnae dissent was tree imagery. One 
1929 graduate compared Vassar to a 
"magnificent oak," adding that if an oak 
no longer has room to grow, it becomes 
good only for lumber. "But boards," 
reasoned the alumna, "can never engender 
the same respect and reverence as the tree 
from which they came." On the other 
hand, she continued, "should Vassar be 
moved ... she will become a vine, 
dependent on another institution .... Or, 
if not a vine, she will become a grafted or 
budded plant with roots not her own." 
The letter concluded with the hope that 
Vassar be allowed to develop "as a tree, 
not as a vine or grafted plant." Most of 
the other alumnae opposing the move also 
expressed a concern for Vassar's identity. 

A long and thoughtful letter from 
Katharine Biddle More, 1953, examined 
undergraduate life at Vassar and offered 
a summary of it from her grandfather: 
"It was," he said, "the best preparation for 
marriage because nothing afterwards 
could possibly be as bad." To arguments 
that Vassar shouldn't abandon its 
beautiful campus, the letter replied: "The 
proper study of late adolescence is Man, 
not trees." 

Simpson confronted the alumnae 
en masse on April 12. From 75 
Vassar Clubs across the country and 
around the world, and from every Vassar 
class from 1 899 to 1966, 250 
representatives assembled for the biannual 
meeting of the Alumnae Council. 

The first night of the three-day 
gathering, the ladies met at Alumnae 
House. Alumnae House is perched on a 
small hill overlooking the Vassar campus, 
and it belongs to the Associate Alumnae, 
one of two autonomous alumni groups in 
the country. 

A rambling, three-story building, 
Alumnae House used to be filled with 
women who returned to Vassar for 
vacations or for the lavish parties thrown 
by Alumnae Secretary Gertrude Garnsey, 
1926. Times have changed. Today the 
alumnae go elsewhere, Gert Garnsey is 
old, and the building is usually filled 
with the overnight male guests of the 
students- but Alumnae House is still the 
alumnae's, and many of them remember. 

What Alan Simpson spoke about that 
evening seemed far away from the Vassar 
they remembered. Greeted initially with 
polite applause, Simpson declared that 
.. Vassar College cannot go it alone-
cannot go it alone." He asked if separate 
education for women had not "outlived 
its historic justification." He said, "You 
can stay in Poughkeepsie and find yourself 
the victim of a silent move, one not so 
dramatic, a move away from excellence." 
The applause when Simpson sat down was 
perfunctory. 

Nell Eurich followed with a rambling 
discussion of the Vassar-Yale study; 
bubbling, a hummingbird, she left the 
alumnae unimpressed. 

But the alumnae waited, and when 
Elizabeth Daniels spoke, they heard what 
most of them wanted to hear. Mrs. 
Daniels of the New Dimensions 
Committee had found new dimensions. 
Wearing an Arnel psychedelic print dress, 
she announced that even as the Vassar-
Yale study was continuing, alternatives 
were being explored. Perhaps a Matthew 
College, for men -
in Poughkeepsie. 

Laughter and applause. Perhaps an 
Institute for Man and His Environment, 
or for public administration, or for 
computer research -
all in Poughkeepsie. 

Tumultuous applause. 

Throughout the year the woman in the 
center of the alumnae maelstrom was 
Frances Prindle Taft, 1942, a sandy-
haired tennis champion who is president 
of the Associate Alumnae. Mrs. Taft's 
opposition to the move crystallized in the 
spring, but she was to experience defeat as 
well as a victory that November. Her 
husband Seth ran unsuccessfully against 
Carl Stokes for mayor of Cleveland. 

Mrs. Taft had grown up in New Haven 
and remembered Yale as large and 
impersonal. Although her husband and son 
went to Yale (she had, in fact, sold 
sandwiches while at Vassar to finance 
visits to Seth in New Haven), she still 
distrusted that sort of education; she 
thought coeducation was fine for 
secondary schools, but not for colleges. 
College for Mrs. Taft in 1967 was still the 
same sort of retreat Alan Simpson had 
celebrated in his inaugural address. "If I 
had a million dollars," she once said, "I'd 
give it to Vassar." 

Mrs. Taft was on the receiving end of 
what she called "League of Women Voter 
tactics- the only tactics the alumnae 
knew." The alumnae seemed to her to be 
"excited about having a cause"; she 
had to hire one of her husband's old 
secretaries for one night a week to answer 
letters. Her own opposition to the Yale 
move (as a zoology major, she said, she 
had learned you can't graft a leg from one 
animal on to another) was underscored 
by her feeling that Simpson was not giving 
the alumnae a fair evaluation of the 
proposal. By mid-spring, she didn't trust 
Simpson, and told other alumnae so at 
the April meeting. 

After that meeting, Simpson had one 
more mishap with the faculty. He had 
scheduled a Liberal Ans Symposium for 
May 5, and one of four featured speakers 
was supposed to be Duke University 
President Douglas M. Knight, a Yale 
Ph.D. Knight, who had gone to Duke from 
Lawrence College in Wisconsin, was 
expected to tell how rewarding it was to 
transfer from a small school to a big one. 
But Knight was ill, so the faculty listened 
instead to a lopsided series of accounts 
about the virtues of separate education 
and the isolated liberal arts college -
from the presidents of Sarah Lawrence 
and Swarthmore respectively. The 
evening's discussion, planned by Simpson, 
ended up lauding just the characteristics 
of Vassar he believed to be its major 
problems. 


**Title: Beyond the fringe: Yale misses the crisis in urban education**
**Author: James Vivian**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Three days after the assassination of Martin Luther King, President Kingman Brewster talked in Dwight Hall with students about Yale's relation to New Haven's problems. It became clear that the interests of Yale and of New Haven seldom coincide in the President's thinking. He devoted most of his remarks to rationalizing executive committees-which supposedly reconcile these divergent interests -as good politics and sound grantsmanship, and as a way to avoid raising "false expectations" in New Haven. 

However, if the recent events prompt any new involvement by Yale in New Haven, there must be less discretion and more discussion about Yale as a part of the New Haven community. 

One suspects that President Brewster has been unwilling to have a more open debate on Yale's actual and potential role in New Haven because of the limitations which he would impose on the conclusions of such a debate. 

Two days later, with a sense of urgency fitting the week, Brewster issued a memorandum committing Yale to "do more" about the city's problems and appointing yet another committee, the Yale Council on Community Affairs. The Council was appropriated $40,000. Heading it will be Tracy Barnes, an ex-CIA staff member who has been Brewster's assistant for alumni affairs since January. 

The Council has been given the task of working with "Yale's programs relating to human and neighborhood development in New Haven."lt is encouraging that this group has been empowered "to support planning and . . . to seek more adequate funds ... in the name of the University." It has the potential to meet the financial problems of many of the present programs. 

In addition, Brewster was empowered by the Yale Corporation to support, both symbolically and financially, the New Haven Black Coalition. If the new Council includes voting members from New Haven and if Yale's assistance to the Black Coalition is forthcoming, an important step may have been taken in recognizing how essential community leadership is to any Yale involvement in New Haven. 

Something positive may have been initiated, but in the area of elementary and secondary education, the memo represents only the extension of the old concept of supplementary education, not a new commitment to the New Haven schools. 

The memo alludes to a new Yale summer high school for New Haven students, which should be examined in the context of existing Yale programs. There are four which have arisen, in Brewster's words, from "free and self-determined individuals, students, faculty and staff": the present Yale Summer High School, the Transitional Year Program, Upward Bound, and the U.S. Grant Foundation. 

The programs have one common denominator; they are primarily concerned with the problems of individual students. Of the four, only the Grant Foundation works exclusively with New Haven students. Both the Summer High School and TYP are in accord with Brewster's idea of a "national constituency." Whatever their impact on the students with whom they come in contact, none of these programs has really touched the source of educational problems of their students -the public schools. While they have undoubtedly had some success with individual students, they have not helped to improve the schools to which these students return and in which other students lose interest in education. 

Moreover, three of the four programs are dealing only with high school students although even casual research will show how crucial the earlier years in school are. Studies have shown that as a bright group of inner-city students progress through public schools in New Haven, and especially after the sixth grade, their achievement levels often remain unchanged across two to three years. 

There are great needs at every level of pre-college education. Yale's programs have been essentially supplementary and peripheral to the crisis within the schools. 

The new summer high school has been justified as beneficial to the students who will be admitted. However, that rationale is applicable to any conceivable supplementary program. The school would finally extend Yale's commitment to New Haven students, but if Yale is now ready to accept more of a role in pre-college education in New Haven, a summer high school is not responsive to the most pressing needs of the community. 

Mrs. Joan Thornell of Operation Breakthrough has made this point emphatically clear to President Brewster. 

The proliferation of summer programs, regardless of the quality of their winter follow-up components, under the rhetoric of doing "better" and doing "more" (which is more appropriate to Bobby Kennedy's campaign than to an articulation of the University's commitment to urban problems) evades the main issue: Yale must help to improve the New Haven schools. Three of the most important proposals which have been made in this regard in the past have received negative action or little serious consideration: changes in the Yale M.A.T. program, an experimental school, and the Learning Center. 

First, Yale has done little to make the M.A.T. program applicable to a career in urban teaching, despite a statement by Edward Gordon, director of teacher training, that the interests of students applying to the Yale M.A.T. have changed markedly over the past several years. Now a high percentage of applicants want to teach in inner-city schools, and many come into the program with tutoring experience. 

A number of recent M.A.T. graduates currently teaching at Lee High School have voiced numerous criticisms of the program and concluded that "Yale has the program but has not quite decided whether it has the commitment" and that the M.A.T. is "the bastard child whose existence cannot be denied, but whose presence is ignored." 

A number of changes should be made in the M.A.T. It is now a basically suburb-oriented program despite a new component at Lee High School, and it must be made more relevant to urban teaching. It suffers by having to fulfill both Connecticut teaching requirements and Yale master's requirements, and Yale should work to liberalize both. Radical changes in the actual training of teachers need to be undertaken, and the experience of the Yale Psycho-Educational Clinic in the public schools would provide invaluable insights for restructuring the program. 

Yale perpetuates the illusion that instruction in subject matter is central to teacher training. More emphasis must be placed on in-school experience with careful observation, which is not now available, and subsequent discussion in groups of experienced and new teachers. 

Yale must assume a less condescending attitude toward the public schools and use the resources of the creative teachers in New Haven. A background of teaching experience and competence in education, not in an academic discipline, should be the primary requirement for the faculty in the teacher training program. 

In addition, instructors who are not full-time faculty members should be welcomed with the knowledge that current experiences are vitally important to the M.A.T. student. Many of the above suggestions could infuse new ideas and methods into the New Haven schools. 

Moreover, follow-up seminars for M.A.T. students, recent graduates who are teaching in New Haven, and experienced teachers might be organized. 

However, the University shows no sign of changing and expanding M.A.T. along any of these lines. In May of last year, Professor Claude Buxton, appointed chairman of the Executive Committee on Elementary and Secondary Education in 1965, wrote a letter to University Provost Charles Taylor advocating the continuation of the M.A.T., apparently with no significant modifications, for five years as a "symbolic" indication of Yale's interest in education. 

Second, the idea of an experimental school, with significant community involvement, could have been an important first step for Yale into New Haven. Two years ago, Professor William Kessen circulated to the New Haven Board of Education and to some members of the Yale faculty a proposal for an experimental school (not a demonstration school for some particular idea in education) which would have been under the joint administration of Yale and New Haven. Successful innovations in the school could be transplanted into other parts of the school system. Apparently, funds were available for the school from the Carnegie Foundation. 

However, the proposal was abandoned by the Yale administration when the New Haven school superintendent was changed and because of a feeling that such a school would not be an appropriate first joint undertaking between Yale and New Haven -rather one which might strain town-gown relations. Moreover, there were the competing interests of a joint undertaking by the New Haven and Hamden Boards of Education on the old Quinnipiac campus. 

Instead of other action, Yale took no action, and in this vacuum a group of Harvard graduates proposed to establish an experimental school in New Haven. The New Haven Board of Education has not acted favorably on this proposal, partially in deference to Yale. An experimental school composed of a representative group of New Haven students- not Yale faculty children-still merits serious consideration as a means for Yale's becoming involved in pre-college education in New Haven. 


Third, an idea similar to an experimental school, under the rubric of the Learning Center, has been proposed to the Yale administration by Lawrence Paros, director of the Yale Summer High School, Robert Gelbach of the Upward Bound Program and Torrey Orton, a local school teacher. No action has yet been taken on the proposal, but it has received favorable response from numerous individuals in the University. Should this proposal garner the support of the community, perhaps through the Black Coalition, it would warrant immediate implementation. 

The Learning Center would accept students who have demonstrated failure or under-achievement in the public schools. They would study six core areas in curriculum (English, mathematics, social studies, science, fine arts, and foreign languages), and schedules would be individually arranged to permit a student more concentration in the area of his interest. Students would study in a workshop, not a classroom setting, both individually and on collaborative projects. Teachers and associates would develop different teaching styles, but they would generally be available for problem solving and frequent evaluation of students' efforts. 

In brief, the Learning Center would attempt to confront creatively the problems of adolescent education with new curricula and a restructuring of the school experience. The Learning Center could complement the present teacher training program at Yale and would be an excellent facility for in-school experience for M.A.T. students if the M.A.T. is reoriented. Also very important, the Learning Center might be used to train black teachers, who are desperately needed in New Haven and elsewhere. 

Instead of changing the M.A.T., undertaking an experimental school or adopting the Learning Center proposal, any of which would have an impact on the New Haven schools, the University has been contemplating the establishment of a Center for Studies of Education within the new Institute for Social Science. Professor Buxton, reporting for his committee, submitted a report on such a center to President Brewster on February 4, 1968. While that report has been rewritten and resubmitted and is not available at this time, any basic changes over the first report would be a real surprise. 

The Center for Studies of Education is proposed Instead of re-establishment of the department of education at Yale, which was abolished in 1958 by President Griswold largely because the field of education was thought to be insubstantial by comparison with the research and scholarship of other departments. This attitude prevails, and the Center would be problem-oriented, drawing on the resources of the social science departments. 

Thus the Center would be founded on the mistaken assumption that present department standards for hiring faculty have some bearing on a person's value in the field of education. Unless provision is made to bring to Yale's proposed Center for Studies of Education some of the brightest people in elementary and secondary education, who would probably neither deserve nor desire tenure at Yale, the University will prolong its irrelevance to the New Haven schools. It is only the most exceptional faculty members at Yale who can meet department standards and still have something to contribute to pre-college education. In addition to the reservations already mentioned about the Center for Studies of Education, it should be noted that little thought has been given to relating this Center to the New Haven schools. 

At this juncture, a very important point must be recognized. Yale is not now a great reservoir of resources in public education whose flood gates might be opened to New Haven. In only a few instances, such as the Psycho-Educational Clinic, has the University generated through involvement in New Haven any knowledge which bears on the practical problems daily confronting teachers and students in the public schools. Moreover, a detached Yale cannot assume that it knows either what is needed in the schools or what is desired by the community. Standards which the University would apply and its preconceptions of effectiveness may be irrelevant. Yale should not patronizingly expect gratitude from New Haven as efforts are made to relate the University to the community's problems. 

We must recognize that Yale has much to learn if it is ever to have much to offer New Haven. A good first step would be the Learning Center proposal. There are other possibilities, undoubtedly, but we must keep in mind that the examination of Yale's role in education in New Haven has been conducted for almost three years by committee and without any indication that Yale may become fruitfully involved in the schools. 

Most important, Yale must act in response to the community's needs and not according to preconceptions of the correct concerns for a university with a liberal arts tradition. Yale students and faculty need a demonstration of creative leadership by President Brewster. The University must establish a new type of involvement in New Haven. The institution of a new summer high school would not be a sign of that leadership. 

Yale has no history of institutional commitment to improving elementary and secondary education in New Haven. In fact, the time has come to state simply and emphatically that Yale's concern with New Haven has been minimal. Only after this admission will Yale shed its three-piece tactfulness, making itself fully vulnerable to criticism and thereby open to new possibilities. 

Yale must find a new sense of responsibility grounded in the shameful realities of how Yale's inaction has contributed to poor education for New Haven's children. Moreover, if Yale is to become helpful in the educational crisis of the urban schools of this country, it must begin by demonstrating an ability to relate to the problems of this community of which it is a part. 

As black and white America have developed along separate and unequal paths, so also Yale and New Haven. And the racial implications will become dramatically clear if Yale does not break with its history in pre-college education for New Haven, admitting past failures and becoming more involved. 

**Title: Eric Sherman films Charles Lloyd's journey within**
**Author: Jeffrey Pollock**
**Page number(s): 12**

"When I showed these rushes to Charles, he almost cried. The film was something we had shared intimately." Eric Sherman, Yale senior, brushed his long brown hair under the ever-present safari hat. He started searching through the cluttered New York apartment he had taken five months earlier to edit his film. 

"Congress Hall in Warsaw is breathtaking," he said as he rifled through the thousands of feet of film he had shot since last June. ''The people there were so cooperative; they cleared the hall and let me set up my lights to do the shooting. When the quartet was finally on stage, I zoomed back to catch the whole auditorium as Charles began his solo." 

Sherman found the reel under his editing table. He moved all the rented equipment aside-the synchronizer, the tape cutter and the hot splicer-to set up the projector. He quickly threaded the first section and turned on the lamp. 

Charles Lloyd appears on the screen, towering over his quartet with wild, unruly hair and eyes that slope down like a sharply peaked roof when his face is in repose. He frantically races up and down several octaves, melting the beat into fluid rhythms, and adding fresh harmonies to a lyric that suggests Ravi Shankar as perhaps spoken in Nashville. 

Lloyd has a habit of performing in a Balliett shuffle, a tranced floating on the smooth runs, the slow-spinning sounds that seem to last for minutes. Pianist Keith Jarrett rocks back and forth with him, moving from expansive chords to violent one-note explosions. 

In intense moments, when Jarrett is bouncing on the piano bench like a hot seat, the pianist and drummer Jack DeJohnette exchange a sing-song responsive chant that confirms the ritualistic ballet of the whole performance. 

Ron McClure caresses his bass, his notes moving in an easy, side-stepping way around Lloyd's upper-register shrieks or bass honks. Lloyd now hits a series of tight chords, simultaneously jerking his torso, then relaxes to wind his body sensuously around a plaintive melodic aside. 

The Charles Lloyd Quartet seems held together by an extraordinary rhythmic sense. It is this feeling of movement, both in the music and the physical performance, that Eric Sherman captures in Charles Lloyd: Journey Within, a sixty-minute color film to be shown here at Yale on May 8 and 9-a film that also happens to be Sherman's senior Scholar of the House project. 

The movie really began last year when Sherman, then a Culture and Behavior major, wrote his junior paper on the sociology of jazz. He correlated physical movement and rhythm in jazz to the cultural background of the musicians, and discovered that the way in which a jazz man moves becomes a ritualistic ceremony paralleling his rhythmic orientation towards the music. 

Last spring Sherman applied to the Scholar of the House Committee to make a film on jazz that would catalogue the performances of a number of musicians and show the relationship between their visual performance and their music. It was approved, meaning that Sherman would take no courses senior year. Sherman had previously helped photograph and starred in Robert Edelstein's Sally's Hounds. He grew up breathing the air of Warner Brothers' back lots where his father, director Vincent Sherman, worked. 

This first film effort by the younger Sherman promised to be of significance to both jazz and cinema. Never before had there been a film about jazz made by a person who was competent in movie-making and who knew something about jazz. 

In March, 1967, Sherman visited Ernest Smith, the world authority on jazz in film, and was able to view Smith's collection of jazz filmography. Jam'n' the Blues, made by fashion photographer Gjon Mili in the late forties, is recognized as the most important film on jazz. But Sherman felt the film was "the coldest thing, continually working against the natural warmth of the musicians. Mili put the camera far back, and his long shots created the impersonal atmosphere that he seemed to want. He even strained to fill the set with smoke, to keep the myth going of smoke-filled back rooms as the only jazz atmosphere." 

But in making his own film, Sherman decided to combine a subjective cinematic approach and a documentary technique that would give a sense of involvement. Sherman constantly refers to the work of Robert Flaherty, a famous documentary film-maker of the late silent era. Like Flaherty, Sherman would not restrict himself to the cold "long shot-medium shot-close-up" progression of "documentary objectivity"; instead he would direct his subjects in highly stylized shot sequences. 

But Sherman was still looking for a subject. On May 5, 1967, he found him. That day he attended a concert at Town Hall in New York to hear a new quartet under the direction of Charles Lloyd. "I saw the concert and knew Charles was the one," says Sherman. "I had never seen such visual excitement, such dynamic interplay between four musicians. Their physical closeness and warmth demanded a corresponding enthusiasm from the audience, and a simpatico was established that I had never before experienced. I immediately decided that my film could only be an intensive study of this one musician." 

At that point Eric didn't know exactly how he was going to make his film. "I sensed, however, that this was the essence of film-making. I was obsessed with the desire to isolate the personal quality of the performance and put it on film. I hoped to take the theatrical atmosphere of the concert, relate that atmosphere to Charles himself-his personal creative struggle." 

Euphoric, Sherman went backstage after the concert, but Lloyd was too busy that night or the next day to talk to him. The quartet was in the midst of hysteric, last-minute preparations for their now famous Russian tour. Finally, Sherman went to Lloyd's apartment. They talked for several hours. By the time Sherman left, there was already the beginning of a unique artistic relationship and a deep and lasting friendship. 

"In one day Eric became one of the family," Lloyd recalls. "He laid his lyrics on me and I saw we were spiritually attuned. We could communicate without all the bullshit, as if he had always been with us. Like he was doing things, and running errands, and taking me to the doctor's. I mean Eric's just a beautiful and humane person. He knows I just want to sing my own song and find my audience." 

Sherman told Lloyd that he wanted to make a film about him but Lloyd joked that he had heard such promises before. 


**Title: The New Journal!**
**Author: Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
13 I The New Journal! April 28, 1968 
Lloyd went off to Russia. When he re-
turned from the Russian tour, Sherman 
was at the airport, standing in his shirt-
sleeves in the rain, filming with a Bolex 
16mm. Sherman had kept the faith, and 
Lloyd knew it. 


With the help of Marty Rubin and Peter 
Friedman, both members of the Yale Film 
Society, Sherman filmed the quartet during 
the sumer at a Rheingold Concert in 
Central Park. While Marty and Peter shot 
the audience coming in, Sherman experi-
mented with his new Eclair, a French 
camera with a powerful zoom lens, recog-
nized as the finest light-weight 16mm 
camera in the world. Sherman had no 
organized sequences planned for the 
concert footage; he was more interested 
in capturing the quartet's visual excite-
ment. He made long takes, quick cuts, and 
wide pans, as he tried to "shoot a little of 
everything." 


In reviewing the rushes, Sherman ex-
citedly discovered that the quartet's 
warmth came across. His technique was 
successful. The frames seemed to capture 
the see-saw rhythm of the whole stage 
and the harsh, brilliant quality of the 
music. Sherman also discovered that un-
natural angles or contrived shots were less 
effective than an honest, straightforward 
style. 


As the initial technical groundwork was 
established, Sherman became less arbitrary 
in his method and began to impose his own 
subjective, creative effort on the shooting. 


Later, Sherman took Charles into Cen-
tral Park alone, and tried to film what be 
was slowly seeing as a basic relationship 
between Lloyd and Nature. As Lloyd ex-
presses it, "I believe that there are natural 
rhythms in Nature, a scene where there 
can be life. I search for that place in my 
music, and it's totally insane, but as I do my 
thing there is an optimism in my music, a 
kind of wonder or love of life. I just can't 
lay alienation on anyone." 


Sherman's efforts to film this gentle, pas-
toral quality were suddenly disrupted by 
the death of leading jazz saxophonist John 
Coltrane. Lloyd went into a deep depres-
sion; he even questioned his musical 
career. He finally came out of it several 
weeks later. Then Sherman suggested that 
Lloyd take a trip to Memphis where 
Lloyd's mother and step-father still lived. 


Lloyd agreed, and Sherman packed lights, 
10,000 feet of of film, three cameras, lug-
gage, and Marty Rubin and Peter Fried-
man into a Valiant and sped off to Mem-
phis. He arrived in time to film Lloyd's 
arrival by plane, "his comin' home to pay 
his Memphis dues." 


Lloyd's mother took Sherman around 
Memphis and helped recreate her son's 
childhood. These days in Tennessee were 
essential to Sherman's conception of 
Lloyd in the film. 


"Charles' musical upbringing was like 
most Negro jazzmen's," Sherman explains. 
"He played in the usual pick-up groups in 
beer halls and back rooms. And this 
Memphis-Blues tradition is essential to his 
music. Yet the thing which characterized 
Charles, which enabled him to develop the 
European-melodic side as well as the 
rhythmic, was a lonely, often self-con-
scious, but unwavering individualism 
throughout his youth. He could never ac-
cept the nihilistic view of Negroes around 
him, bitter Tomism or vicious militancy. 
He bad this inner thing, this refusal to 
accept a label of color. He was thus able 
to approach his music more fully, and was 
strong enough to get out of Memphis and 
study on the West Coast." 


Lloyd went to Southern Cal where he 
received his master's degree in music. 
And it was at college that he met his future 
wife Joan, a tall, elegant white woman. 


Things were often difficult for Lloyd at 
USC; be remembers, "There was no com-
munication there, no expressive jazz like 
we do. You had to go round about to make 
the scene." 


Lloyd's identity as a Negro was also first 
criticized at USC. Afro-Americanism was 
not only a force in the community but 
among jazz musicians as well. Musicians 
avoid him because he wasn't "black" 
enough. But Lloyd insisted, "If they don't 
tolerate you, you have to be bigger than it. 
Music transcends the whole scene." 


"It's back to what is cause and what is 
effect," argues Sherman. "Yes, he was 
light-skinned, but he felt Negro. The im-
portant thing is that he has been con-
sistent in this drive to gain integrity. He 
never falls back on a bitter self-pity for 
being Negro. He never lapses into a black 
hang-up." 


Black or white, the young jazzman must 
struggle to transcend the terrible condi-
tions jazz musicians must accept in this 
country, an exhausting succession of short 
club dates and one-nighters. "You play in 
little jazz rooms or bars where people are 
juiced and ask you to do Melancholy 
Baby," Lloyd explains. "I played with 
Chico Hamilton and later Adderley. Play-
ing in those holes they call jazz lounges, 
guys get fed up. It's hard to keep a group 
together." 


To capture this side of jazz, traditionally 
portrayed on film, Sherman followed 
Lloyd out to the West Coast. Through his 
growing involvement with the four 
musicians, (managing them for a time, 
arranging press spots, living through a 
week of strenuous playing conditions at 
Huntington Beach), Sherman still saw 
Lloyd the individualist and Lloyd the child 
of Nature. 


Sherman saw that the four musicians 
are on the same spiritual wavelength. They 
were concerned with an inner need to 
create a valid musical statement, rather 
than a thing of racial tensions or personal 
hang-ups. They are simply a group of men 
busy taking the music apart and putting it 
back together in a realignment that will 
dictate the future of jazz. 


In Sherman's film, Keith Jarrett, the 
pianist for the quartet, says, "Artists learn 
Jaws about their art parallel to the laws of 
the universe. When I play with the group, 
I understand the Jaws." 


Each musician agrees that Nature is the 
answer, and Nature is what their music is 
about. Nature and "the journey within" 
stand as verbal signposts for the cinematic 
road Eric Sherman takes in his film. 


"I found myself using new norms, 
actually learning the Jaws of Nature," says 
Sherman. "When you look at the world 
through a viewfinder for nine months, you 
see different rhythms, what I call natural 
rhythms. I'm not a Maharishi guy, but that 
vernal, open quality is there. They said 
it was in their music, and you find that 
they're right. I found it in my film as well. 
There isn't one angle shot in the entire 
sixty minutes; I wanted to express a kind 
of order, a movement. 


"But that fluid order is difficult. And 
that's the problem with a lot of experi-
mental films. Opposition and conflict is 
easy to see and easy to express in film. 
You just move quickly. and cut furiously. 
But fluidity is much more important. 
That's why I think Renoir is the greatest 
continued on page 18 


**Title: The village in the Vietnamese war**
**Author: Samuel Popkin**
**Page number(s): 14**

141 The New Journal I April 28, 1968 
The village in 
the Vietnamese war 
by Samuel Popkin 
Dennis Duncanson, Government and 
Revolution in Vietnam, Oxford, 1968. 
Ward Just, To What End: Report 
from Vietnam, Houghton Mifflin, 1968. 
There are two ways to study Vietnam, as 
history or as theater: 


Dennis Duncanson spent six years in 
Vietnam as a member of the British 
Advisory Mission to the Vietnamese 
government. A veteran of the British 
Colonial Service, he was Director of 
Chinese Education in Malaya. He 
understands Vietnamese bureaucracy and 
reads Chinese, Vietnamese and French. 


Ward J.ust spent 18 months in Vietnam 
as a reporter for the Washington Post, and 
his reporting was honored by the Overseas 
Press Club. He understands American 
bureaucracy and has read Kafka, The 
Good Soldier Schweik and Catch-22. 


In the long run Duncanson's book will 
be a major contribution to modern 
Vietnamese history. It is solid and well 
documented and has excellent historical 
summaries. But people today don't want 
facts, they want their beliefs reinforced. 


Just's book suits the mood of today. 


Duncanson seems to think the war could 
have been won if only American strategy 
had been better planned. Just gives the 
impression hat this could never have 
happened. The sense of urgency, threat or 
commitment was simply not strong enough 
to unite the American effort. Americans 
could not even agree on terms; as Just says, 
"It was a question of which Jesuit was in 
charge." 


Mr. Duncanson is an honest hawk. Even 
looking back at the awesome toll the 
American effort has exacted in Vietnam, 
he favors an independent, non-
communist South Vietnam and upholds 
the domino theory. But he is fair in all he 
presents and thus gives a telling and 
detailed analysis of the debacle in South 
Vietnam. Except for the American intent 
to keep South Vietnam afloat, he finds very 
little that is right, either with the 
Americans or with the various South 
Vietnamese governments. 


Speaking before the Fulbright 
committee, John Kenneth Galbraith once 
remarked that "if we had never gone to 
Vietnam, that country would today be 
enjoying the obscurity it so richly 
deserves." The sad fact is, however, that 
we did go to Vietnam and it still enjoyed 
obscurity. When we first became involved, 
no one knew or cared about the country, 
and no one seems to have understood the 
complex tangle of factions and interests 
we were entering. As Duncanson notes, 
during the Diem era, 
the ramshackle edifice of factional 
allegiance, vested interest, and 
patronage, resting on the shifting sands 
of foreign aid, opposed to the 
Communist threat, not a shield of 
national unity, but a host of 'internal 
contradictions', waiting to be 
exploited . ... 


From the beginning the two pillars of 
American support for Diem were the 
building of a strong national army and 
economic aid to raise the standard of 
living. There was also some technical 
assistance for particular government 
efforts. The crux of the failure of the 
cumulative US effort, Duncanson notes, 
was want of coordination and direction in 
the application of aid and advice. "Defense 
freedom" was a slogan, not a policy or a 
program of action. 


Vietnam needed a leader who could 
understand the government as a whole and 
Samuel Popkin, who spent ten months in 
Vietnam, is a lecturer in Political Science 
and is currently writing a book on the 
Vietnamese village. 


see the relation of all the parts. "Diem and 
Nhu were not of that calibre," says 
Duncanson. But the US stood back, 
keeping up its commitment, treating 
" 'defense of freedom' as a problem 
separate from the governing of Vietnam." 


Duncanson does not blame the failure 
of Diem and his American support on 
subversion, either from North or South. 
Whether it was in our national interest or 
not, we did commit ourselves, and" ... it 
was precisely ... to make South Vietnam 
viable to the point of resisting aggression, 
that the programme had been embarked 
on." 


Looking at Duncanson's review of the 
Diem era, the reader finds it hard to see 
how Diem lasted as long as be did. Diem 
never had the support of the various sects, 
factions and parties that make South 
Vietnam so complicated. He was in the 
position of having to guard against coup 
and revolution at the same time, an 
impossibie situation even for a more 
capable person. 


In a sense Diem had to choose between 
guarding the state and guarding the people. 
He chose to guard the state and in the end 
lost both. Intelligence services were 
fragmented and spent their time watching 
each other, not the spreading of VietCong 
domination over rural areas. The military 
chain of command was fragmented, and 
officers were appointed on the basis of 
loyalty, not competence. 


Nowadays, the liberal 
oversimplification is that Diem's 
oppression and tyranny were responsible 
for the ever growing VietCong strength in 
rural areas. The truth, while no more 
complimentary to Diem, is much more 
complicated. The resentment directed 
toward Diem stemmed largely from the 
way he reacted to Viet Cong presence in 
a village; his reactions were often worse 
than the VietCong actions. 


The Vietnamese village, as Duncanson 
shows, bas always been the traditional 
breeding ground for revolution and 
anarchy, and neither Diem nor any of his 
successors has changed that situation. 


Diem believed, as do many Vietnamese 
and Americans even today, that the 
traditional village, with its ancient 
institutions, was the key to stability and 
harmony. All evidence contradicts this. 


When I talked to Americans in Saigon 
and urban Vietnam they seemed to 
overlook some basic facts of village life. 
The village was never a happy, cohesive 
community full of singing peasants. If 
Diem's view of the village was realistic, 
then so was Fiddler on the Roof with its 
happy, smiling Cossacks. No institutions 
of law and order, which would provide the 
peasant with redress for grievances, were 
developed. Justice was the province of 
village elders, and any problem they 
couldn't handle went unsolved. 


Government by elders was conservative 
and narrow. It did not build national 
identification and it provided no careers 
for young, ambitious peasants. The only 
place in rural Vietnam where a peasant 
had an opportunity for a career with a 
chance of advancement was with the Viet 
Cong. Under the old system peasants were 
supposed to be happy farmers; they 
weren't supposed to want the corrupting 
careers of modern life. 


Besides the lack of rural career 
opportunities and the absence of real law 
and order, life in the villages was boring, 
especially before the recent transistor 
boom. The VietCong had easy access to 
many villages because they brought 
minstrels and puppet shows, not because 
they brought revolution. 


As the Viet Cong's strength increased, 
every reaction to their activities served to 
increase their strength still more. 


Duncanson thus can call Vietnam a 
"symbiotic revolution." The reaction to 
VietCong progress in the villages was 
military action by an army under urban 
officers who had no identification with 
rural peasants and no reliable information 
to guide them. 


In this situation, ARVN (The Army of 
the Republic of Vietnam) did what it 
was trained to do. It went chasing around 
on big operations, walking over the 
villages in search of guerrillas. This was a 
crucial mistake. The VietCong strength 
was not in the guerrillas but in the local 
"precinct workers" or cadres, who worked 
in the villages to develoP. a belief among 
the peasants that the VietCong, whatever 
their faults, were better to the peasants 
than the government army. As long as 
ARVN was so destructive, it was a good 
idea for the peasant to fortify his village. 


While ARVN was cautiously stepping 
around the bamboo spikes, the peasant 
could hide his chickens. 


Things got worse as ARVN became 
more and more frustrated. 


Diem didn't want casualties, and the 
Americans wanted progress. The result: 
more artillery was used and the spiral of 
escalation ascended. Though the civilian 
death toll from the ever mounting use of 
planes and artillery over the years was 
nowhere near what one might expect, 
artillery lost the war. The flow of refugees 
from shelled villages complicated all 
problems. Peasants soon learned to shelter 
themselves from air and artillery attacks 
in their villages, but the villages were 
being shot up. Many ambitious peasants, 
the ones around whom the rural 
government could best be built, took off 
for the cities. Others flocked to distant 
villages. A vicious climate of distrust came 
to exist where no peasant knew whom he 
could trust. And, of course, large numbers 
joined the Viet Cong -
some because 
they hated the government for its cruelties, 
but most because they were afraid of city 
life and had no place else to go. 


By the time Diem was overthrown, the 
Viet Cong were well entrenched with a 
good grass roots organization throughout 
the country. This was their strength and 
always has been. The large VietCong 
units, including those of P A VN (People's 
Army of Vietnam), have served as a 
bullfighter's cape, keeping the Americans 
busy chasing around in the central 
highlands and near the demilitarized zone, 
far from the villages upon whose support 
the VietCong depend. 


Between American domination on one 
hand and the segmentation of their own 
society on the other, the governments 
since Diem have been no better. Every 
officer seems to fancy himself a Bonaparte. 


One new American welfare program after 
another, which couldn't help being badly 
administered, added to the chaos. 


Vietnamese bureaucracy was caught in 
the position of having to administer a 
series of unrealistic programs, with the 
quality of performance becoming 
successively lower. But the programs 
really did raise the overall standard of 
living- including that of the VietCong 
who began to use cement-lined tunnels. 


This is where Just is at his best-
describing the air of unreality surrounding 
the American military and civilian efforts. 



**Title: This particular war**
**Author: A. Dwight Culler**
**Page number(s): 15**

15 I The New Journal I April 28, 1968 
This particular war 
by A. Dwight Culler 
"I was in the Civilian Public Program for 
C.O.'s during World War II," says Dwight 
Culler, director of graduate studies in 
English. "After chopping down trees in a 
former Civilian Conservation Corps camp 
in New Hampshire, I spent two years as an 
attendant in a mental hospital in Middle-
town, Connecticut. 


"Later I was sent to a camp inN orthern 
California for 'bad boys' because I had 
sent an impertinent letter to the super-
intendent of the mental hospital complain-
ing about the food. I spent that winter 
digging one garbage pit two feet square. 
There was great resistance to the Selective 
Service System in this camp and very 
little work was done.'' 


History repeats itself curiously. Almost 
thirty years ago I was a graduate student 
at Yale and was faced by the same problem 
that now confronts my students. The 
lottery had turned up my number early 
and I had registered as a conscientious 
objector. I was not a member of one of the 
historic peace churches (though my father 
had been in his youth) and I was not even 
much of a churchgoer. I had merely 
decided I could not do this thing and 
would not. 


I have often tried since then to dis-
entangle the elements of moral idealism, 
intellectual aloofness and pure pigheaded-
ness that went into this decision, but have 
found myself unable to do so. Enough 
to say that I decided. 


Now, however, I see students who are 
just as religious as I was, and quite as 
sincere, hesitate to become objectors be-
cause they are not sure they faJI within 
the definition of the act. Their objections 
may not be religious enough and they may 
object only to this particular war, not to 
war in general. I am thus aware that I had 
a great advantage. Whereas I was con-
fronted by a good, clean, sensible war and 
so knew that I was against war in general, 
they are confronted by one so horrible 
and absurd that they imagine it is only 
this particular war that they object to. 


I think that they are wrong. I think 
that when they reflect on what they see in 
the television sequences they will realize 
that even if this were not happening in a 
sector of the world in which we have no 
business to be and for a reason which has 
long ago been lost sight of, it would still 
be horribly, horribly wrong. I think that 
their feeling that they are not against war 
in general is due to an insufficient ability to 
conceive of the nature of war. Any war 
is exactly like this one: something they 
could not participate in without being 
brutalized, something for which they could 
not come back and live with themselves 
as decent, humane people. 


Still, if on reflection they find they are 
not against war in general but only against 
this particular war, then the Jaw says that 
they are not conscientious objectors. For 
thirty years I have meditated on this 
statement and wondered what it means. 


As far as I can see, it means that, accord-
ing to the Selective Service System, God 
thinks in abstractions. He forbids only 
classes of acts, not particular acts. Of 
course, we can all think of a famous in-
stance to the contrary, in the second 
chapter of Genesis, where God declares, 
"Of all the fruits that grow in the garden 
thou mayst eat freely, but of this particular 
fruit thou mayst not eat"; and Antigone, I 
believe, did not have an aversion to 
unburied bodies in general. 


We all realize, of course, that the intent 
of the directive is that the individual 
should not exercise his private judgment 
in determining which laws be shall obey. 
But the conscientious objector bas already 
done that. He has said, this law I will 
obey, that not. I will stop at traffic lights, 
I will not go to war. We know too that 
classes of acts differ in the degree of their 
generality and in whether they are real 
entities or arbitrary divisions. 


Just as God might have preserved his 
reputation for abstraction by forbidding 
all the fruit in the garden, or only all 
the apples, or all the Mcintosh apples, or 
all the apples on that particular Mcintosh 
tree, or all parts of that particular Mc-
Intosh apple, so the C.O. can object to all 
war, or onJy to all unjust wars, or to all 
wars of colonialism, or to all wars against 
yellow races striving to fulfill their national 
aspirations, or to all Vietnam wars, or to 
all acts in this particular Vietnam war. If 
he really wishes to preserve his character 
for generality, let it be the last to which 
be objects, though I myself would say that 
he is not confronted by an Aristotelian 
category but by a particular situation. 


But what, then, if he isn't sufficiently 
religious? Philosophically, the basis for 
conscientious objection is the recognition 
on the part of the state that if two duties, 
one civic and one religious, come in con-
flict, it is the latter that takes precedence. 


Historically, the idea goes back to 
seventeenth-century conceptions of reli-
gious toleration. The problem in applying 
so simple a theory arises, of course, from 
the fact that, although the state acknowl-
edges that it must give way before a 
religious duty, it takes it upon itself to 
define what religion is and what kinds of 
duties it may enjoin. (It would not dream 
of making an establishment of religion, 
but it does not mind theologizing a little 
on the side.) It is not absolutely rigid in 
these matters and some latitude is left to 
the theological predilections of the Local 
Board. But in general, apart from the 
fact that God must speak in abstractions, 
they prefer that he be a Person, that he 
communicate chiefly to people in 
churches, and that he discuss the matter 
of war largely with Quakers, Mennonites 
and Brethren. 


In the last war I spent three and a half 
years with Quakers, Mennonites and 
Brethren and came to have a great affec-
tion and respect for them. But there is no 
question that they are the relic-the last 
two especially--of obscure sixteenth- and 
seventeenth~entury sects who are com-
pletely outside the main stream of modern 
life. The Selective Service System buys 
itself great mileage, in terms of a reputa-
tion for religious tolerance, by granting 
exemptions to these tiny, almost non-
existent sects. 


At the same time it in effect declares 
that no one in America can have a con-
science, at least on the subject of war, 
unless he lives in the intellectual back-
waters. It takes no account of what 
happened to religion in the twentieth 
century and comes as close to denying real 
religious freedom as any democratic gov-
ernment has ever done. Its tokenism in 
recognizing the Quakers, the Mennonites 
and the Brethren is a supreme example 
of political cunning. 


This cunning has worked so well that 
young people now forget that Selective 
Service has nothing to do with determining 
who is or who is not a conscientious 
objector. True, they frame the legal defi-
nition and decide who gets the exemptions, 
but a conscientious objector defines him-
self. He defines himself by his own act. 
He is anyone who stands up on his two 
legs and says, out of sincere conscientious 
conviction, this thing I will not do. It 
may well be that he will go to jail for 
saying so--and no one should register as 
a conscientious objector who is not pre-
pared for this eventuality-but he 
is a C.O. 


In the last war, if my memory serves 
me, there were about 12,000 objectors 
in the camps and about 12,000 in jail. 
Legally, the latter were not C.O.'s, but by 
their willingness to suffer for their beliefs 
they proved that they were; they were 
so listed statistically, and many of them 
were later released to the camps. 


Whether they were against all wars 
or only that particular one I don't know. 
It so happens that most of us are only 
of age to fight one war in our lifetime, 
and that we must either fight or refuse. 
The others are a hypothetical question. 

A Yale Institution for Upperclassmen 



**Vassar-Yale**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Some teachers were skeptical of the 
alternative proposals. "There was an 
immense scrambling for facts without 
sitting back and thinking about what 
things meant," said one committee 
member. Other teachers, mostly junior 
faculty, thoughrthe patchwork of 
alternatives was impractical, an excuse 
for not moving. One teacher said to a 
colleague: "They're nothing but half-
thought-out, slick, Madison Avenue 
money-raisers." 


The alumnae came back to Vassar for 
their annual reunions at the June 
Commencement. It was hot, and 
conversation was only about the Vassar-
Yale affiliation. Alumnae officers 
repeatedly attacked the move. Simpson, 
recalling his earlier statement about 
betraying "the essence" of Vassar by 
abandoning neutrality, told associates that 
alumnae officers were misusing their 
offices. The officers replied that Simpson 
was misusing his. 


The alumnae also gave birth to two of 
the most savage rumors that appeared 
during the entire affair. The first was that 
Alan Simpson was using the Vassar 
presidency and the New Haven move to 
become president of Yale, after.Brewster 
departs for the Senate. The other was that 
Yale had tried to get Connecticut College 
to move to Yale before asking Vassar. No 
one likes to be second choice, least of all 
Vassar alumnae. 


The evidence for the Conn College 
rumor was scanty. At a cocktail party in· 
New York in 1964, Brewster had indeed 
asked a Conn College trustee, "Why don't 
you move that school of yours to New 
Haven?" And in his 1966 commencement 
address at Conn, Brewster had cracked 
that, no, it was not true Yale was moving 
to New London. But there had been no 
official contact. In May, 1967, Evalyn 
Clark, a history professor at Vassar, asked 
Charles Shane, president of Conn College, 
why Conn had turned down the move to 
Yale. "Well, we didn't take it too 
seriously," Shane replied. 


Simpson was chagrined at the treatment 
he was getting from the Vassar ladies; but 
he remained confident that he could 
convince people. Some associates said be 
should stop pushing the affiliation, lest it 
split Vassar apart and do irreparable · 
damage to the school and to his 
presidency. But, like Sisyphus, Simpson 
persisted. 


The administrations of the two schools 
thought they could please alumnae and 
trustees by taking them on a tour of Yale 
and the proposed site for Vassar in New 
Haven. 


The University owned most of the 40 
acres along Prospect St., and planned to 
buy the Culinary Institute of America 
to make the entire area between the cam-
pus and the Divinity School into the new 
home of Vassar. Yale officials were en-
thusiastic about the site, sloping up a hill 
and studded with trees, which they con-
sidered the best in New Haven- much 
better than the area they bad once con-
sidered on Dixwell Avenue behind the 
gymnasium. 


As the trustees ambled about, however, 
they were thinking about the rundown 
neighborhood on nearby Winchester 
A venue, where racial disturbances had 
taken place that summer. They also 
objected to the proximity of Olin 
Mathieson's Winchester Rifle plant, and 
worried that a huge highway was going to 
cut Vassar off from the rest of the 
University. 


Perhaps, Yale said, but the highway 
would be sunk below ground level. 


Some of the trustees fretted about the 
"postage-stamp size" of the site, even 
though the present Vassar campus proper 
occupies only about 100 out of the 1000 
acres the college owns. The Yale officials 
kept praising the beauty of the site. On 
one of the trips, ~am Chauncey pointed to 
a tree. "Look at that huge silver beech 
tree," he said to one of Vassar's female 
trustees. "Tell me, do you have any trees 
as beautiful as that one at Vassar?" 
"No," she snapped. 


The trustees were served sumptuous 
luncheons at Brewster's house, along with 
·a platter of promises -
that the area 
would be well-lit and weU-patrolled, and 
that Vassar would get her own library 
building and other facilities. But as far as 
the trustees were concerned, none of New 
Raven's delights could match Vassar's 
pastoral home. 


During the summer, Kingman Brewster 
went sailing with Alan Simpson at 
Simpson's retreat in Little Compton, 
Rhode Island. At the same time, the Study 
Committee Staff, which in June had 
assigned sections of its material for 
writing, began piecing together its final 
report, amid disagreement over whether 
the report itself should advocate the 
move. 


Nell Eurich urged that its bulk remain 
neutral, with expressions of desirability 
restricted to covering letters from the two 
presidents. Mrs. Eurich had been 
gradually solidifying her position at 
Vassar, and she was eventually the only 
member of the Joint Staff to oppose the 
move (although she never publicly 
·admitted it). Because of her efforts, the 
final report contained no advocacy, no 
general principles -
only a lot of dry 
figures, charts and proposed 
arrangements. 


When the drafts were completed, the 
Staff of the Vassar-Yale Study Committee 
met in New Haven for final discussion. 
From August 29 at ten in the morning to 
noon the following day, the participants 
went over, word for word, the contents of 
the report. Kingman Brewster led the 
meeting and, with pencil in hand, took 
suggestions and corrected the final copy. 
When it was completed, the report was 
typed up, multilithed and bound at the 
Yale Press in loose-leaf notebooks, which 
went to the trustees of both schools and 
selected faculty members at Yale. The 
Vassar faculty never got a chance to look 
at the report, even though it was in the 
library at Yale, until after the trustees' 
decision. 


Staff members were generally relieved 
to be finished, and Yale people looked 
forward to standing aside while Vassar 
made its decision. Brewster told friends 
he thought it was "a damn good report." 


But Yale knew it was up to Vassar now. 
The Vassar trustees also received the 
report of the New Dimensions 
Committee. With its general projections 
for Vassar's future, it seemed far more 
imaginative than the meticulous but cut-
and-dried Vassar-Yale Study report. 


At this point a few people were 
beginning to claim that the move to NeW


Haven would actually be a conservative 
answer to Vassar's problems. In the 
October Alumnae Magazine, Dean Nell 
Eurich sampled faculty opinion and found 
that "the essence of the Vassar education" 
was its creativity and originality, its 
democratic and pioneering spirit and its 
commitment to teaching and to the 
individual student- things one wouldn't 
find so easily in a university. That same 
month, in a speech to alumnae, she quoted 
an article in Daedalus that said the trend 
of the future was toward privacy, 
independence, peace and quiet. This too 
obviously meant Poughkeepsie. 


Vassar's trustees, half of them alumnae, 
convened eight times that fall, sometimes 
in Poughkeepsie, sometimes in New York 
City at John Wilkie's 73rd Street 
apartment. The sessions were long and 
tedious and inconclusive. As time went on, 
the Vassar-Yale Study was becoming 
increasingly irrelevant to the discussions, 
for the trustees were arguing over 
desirability, not feasibility. 


Before the trustees made their decision, 
Simpson and Wilkie mailed letters to all 
the alumnae saying they would "consult" 
with the faculty under terms of the 
Governance before finally agreeing to 
make the move. But the statement was 
clearly hedged, not quite guaranteeing the 
professors veto power. 


Meanwhile, alumna Dorothy 
Seiberling's opposition to the New Haven 
move had come to the attention of the 
editors of Life, who asked her to write a 
story on the Vassar-Yale Study. Pleased, 
she sent to Vassar a photographer, who 
was told by Vassar officials not to talk to 
anyone. Information, he was told, would 
come later when the report was 
completed. 


Feeling rebuffed, Miss Seiberling, an 
art editor, obtained most of her 
information from public accounts and 
private conversations with Vassar faculty 
members. Some professors told her they 
bad been discouraged from talking to 
outsiders; several told her the rumor about 
Conn College. 


She talked to no one at Yale except 
students and some art department faculty 
because she felt she would get only the 
"official line" there. 


Headlined "How Dare They Do It?", 
her article was a ranting polemic against 
the move that suggested a conspiracy 
between Brewster and Simpson. It was 
enlivened by a photo of the projected 
Vassar site in New Haven, shot so that the 
Olin Mathieson gun factory and its smoke 
loomed directly over Vassar's proposed 
doorstep. 


The article alleged that Vassar got Yale 
on the rebound from Connecticut College. 
Charles Shane, president of Conn, was 
asked about the charge during lunch. He 
sputtered with rage and denied it 
Vehemently. Later, he mailed a letter to 
Life saying it wasn't true. Life did not 
print the letter. 


A few days before the Seiberling story 
appeared, Brewster, somewhat concerned, 
bad called his friend, Hedley Donovan, 
Editor-in-Chief of Time-Life. Donovan 
laid he knew nothing about it. When 
Brewster saw the story, he was livid. "This 
1rouldn't have happened if Harry Luce 
"ere still alive," a Yale official said. 


At Vassar, there was an ambivalent 
tion to the article. Many- for the 
rd -expressed regret that the article 
appeared. Nevertheless it seemed to 
ieve tensions that had been building for 
ost a year. All the apprehensions, even 
if overstated, were now out in the open, 
in print. 


The Seiberling article, in giving form to 
the opposition, helped speed the Vassar-
Yale affiliation, once so fair and soon so 
battered, to a merciful death. At the 
alumnae meeting in Poughkeepsie in mid-
October, passions were strangely subdued, 
as though everything had been said and 
there was nothing more to do. Interest 
turned to Franny Taft's husband's 
mayoralty campaign in Cleveland. 


Fj.nally, in November, there was one 
last effort at compromise that brought 
Simpson and Brewster together. 


Eight days later, the lingering came to 
an end. 


November 20, when the Vassar trustees 
took the final vote and Alan Simpson read 
his statement three times, was a Monday. 
Two days later everyone went home for 
Thanksgiving. Before she left, one student 
received a note from Simpson. He thanked 
her for her optimism about the affiliation 
and then concluded, "Now, let's get going." 


When the girls came back, the report of 
the Vassar-Yale Study Group was 
available in the library and the New 
Dimensions Committee's office. It could 
have been a curio from a thousand years 
ago. Few took the time to look at it. 


The following Tuesday about thirty 
girls gathered at the home of Mr. and 
Mrs. Simpson for a buffet supper. The 
college deans were also there, although 
Nell Eurich, spilling over with apologies, 
arrived late. Over sherry in the living 
room, Simpson chatted with the girls. He 
was in good spirits; the conversation was 
about exactly how Vassar could get going 
right now. He wanted to hear what the 
girls thought was wrong and what 
suggestions they could offer to improve 
Vassar. 


There were already plans to talk about. 
A few days before, Simpson bad said, "If 
we haven't produced some kind of college 
for men within five years, I'd be a very 
surprised and disappointed man." Now 
there was discussion in Simpson's living 
room of curricular changes and easing of 
social rules, talk about exchanges with 
men's schools, about the proposed 
graduate institutes, and even about the 
new dining hall plans that had been 
shelved a year before. 


Everyone talked about the options, but 
no one mentioned the obstacles. For one 
thing, the money. For another, the Vassar 
progressives who want change in 
Poughkeepsie and the traditionalists who 
like Vassar more or less the way it is no 
longer share a common cause. 


The talk went on pleasantly, as people 
passed along the buffet. No one wanted to 
believe that the trustees might have made 
the wrong choic.e, that Vassar might be in 
serious trouble. People found chairs and 
couches where they could balance their 
plates on their knees. One girl, sitting in a 
corner, caught sight of a pile of 
photographs on a bureau. Picking 
through them, she came upon a picture 
that bad been taken off Little Compton, 
Rhode Island, during the summer. It 
showed Simpson and Brewster on 
Simpson's yacht, smiling under the sun. 
"The conspirators," joked the girl. 


Mrs. Simpson, nearby,laukhed. "Alan 
and Kingman- the conspirators." 


Across the room, Alan Simpson was 
talking with the girls about Vassar's 
daunting and dazzling future in 
Poughkeepsie.


**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
19 I The New Journal ! April28, 1968 
The closest I came to understanding 
this embarrassment was when I talked 
with.a 60-year-old peasant who had been a 
longtime supporter of the VietCong but 
who was now in a government hamlet by 
choice. 

"How do the Viet Cong politics 
compare with the GVN politics?" 
"VietCong politics are much better," 
he said, "they really know how to talk to 
peasants like me and what to say. The 
government says many things, but it is 
often only talk." 

"How does the behavior of the VC 
compare with the behavior of the 
government?" 
"VC behavior is better. They are always 
polite, always helpful. The village soldiers 
are now polite, but not so helpful. The 
ARVN soldiers behave badly." 

"WeU, how does life under the VC 
compare with life under the government?" 
"I can't live under the VietCong any 
more," he said. "Too many speeches and 
too many meetings. All we ever did was 
talk about the struggle." 

That's what the myth of the village 
means to me. Peasants who have no 
material rewards are assumed to have 
spiritual rewards; when a son sticks to his 
father for survival, it's called filial piety, 
and when one village doesn't talk to the 
neighboring village, it's called solidarity. 
Economic welfare and modernization 
are good, but somehow they don't 
magicaly bring dignity, pride and self-
respect to peasants, and they don't help 
knit a society together. We are trying to do 
in Vietnam what we can't do in our own 
ghettoes. 


**Title: Comment**
**Author: Michael Waltuch**

Comment 
continued from page 2 
when party structure changed and the 
Free Soil Party's founding resulted from 
party disagreement over slavery. He felt 
that there would be a definite party re-
alignment by 1972 if Nixon did lose to 
Kennedy and that the age of Lindsay 
Republicanism would be over. There 
would appear on the scene, he predicted, a 
third party of definite power, while the 
Republicans and Democrats would drift 
to the extremes of the political spectrum. 
Michael Waltuch 
Yale College 


**Title: Yale College Festival**
**Author: Paul Bennett**

Festival 
Two years ago the study of film at Yale 
was an experiment, a side-track of the 
academic treatment of the arts regarded 
with mild condescension and not a little 
suspicion of dilettantism. Students in 
Standish Lawder's Directed Studies sem-
inar on the history of the cinema grew 
accustomed to raised eyebrows and quiz-
zical looks when they spoke of their work. 
The transfer of Lawder's course to the 
standard history of art curriculum and the 
opening of an undergraduate course in 
filmmaking were major steps forward into 
this peculiarly neglected field, and the 
acquistion of the Griggs film collection 
bas increased the history of art depart-
lllent's film library from three or four 
titles to more than two hundred. 

This year will close with what might 
tum out to be the most important innova-
tion of all, the Yale Film Festival, which 
"ill open on May 10. By April 15, five days 
before the deadline, invitations to 450 
independent filmmakers had brought in 
lllore than fifty entries. In addition, a 
twelve-hour package of films from the 
Ann Arbor Film Festival will be con-
sidered. Approximately nine hours of 
this mass of film will be selected to be 
shown in three public screenings in the 
Law School auditorium, May 10, 11 and 
12. Since aU the entries must be less than 
thirty minutes long, each screening should 
be a richly varied experience. 

"We're looking for sensitive, experi-
mental, independent filmmakers doing the 
sort of original, creative work that just isn't 
seen very often," says Lawder. 

To encourage these filmmakers to par-
ticipate, the Festival will award $1000 in 
prizes, donated by the pioneer of the 
early avant-garde film movement, Hans 
Richter. There is an echo of Richter's 
taste for intense cinema in the special prize 
to be awarded for the best film of less than 
three minutes. 

The film jury includes representatives 
of various approaches to filmmaking. 
Willard van Dyke, Director of the Depart-
ment of Film at the Museum of Modern 
Art, has accepted, along with the high 
priest of the underground film movement, 
Jonas Mekas. Warren Beatty is expected 
as the third judge, and Renata Adler, film 
critic for the New York Times, will attend. 

The Film Festival is one answer to the 
delicate problem of the University's ap-
proach to the arts and particularly to the 
working artist. Yale has just begun to ap-
proach film as an area of study, and treat-
ment of it is spread through several 
departments. While the problems of teach-
ing history of film and filmmaking are still 
being worked out, the Festival is con-
tributing to all aspects of film study at 
Yale by bringing in the best of the over-
whelming number of innovative films 
being turned out in relative obscurity all 
over the country. 
Paul Bennett



Classifieds 
20¢perword 
Ads may be mailed or telephoned to: 
William M. Burstein 
544 Yale Station 
New Haven, Conn. 06520 
776-2551 
Monday-Thursday 7-8 p.m. 
PIANO TUNING-precise work. P. 
Neumann, 776-6421 evenings. 
FOR FAME, fortune, travel and adventure, 
tour in a 1965 Rover 2000. New transmission, 
electrical overhaul. $1900. Call 624-5743. 
CUSTOM COLOR-BLACK & WHITE 
printing and processing. Slides--negatives--
sheets, rolls, 35mm subminiature. Speed 
changes--color correction-<ropping. Ekta-
chrome, Anscochrome, Kodacolor, Koda-
chrome. Foreign color film. Wallet to 
mural sizes. Contact sheets. Still and movie 
duplicates. Slides for lectures. Filmstrips. The 
Color Studio, 35 Broadway. 2nd floor. 
777-2909. 
DON'T TAKE HISTORY OF MUSIC 10. 
SELLING TYPEWRITERS. Portable 
"Consul"; Table model "Remington Rand". 
Mike, 469-5471 or 787-3 131 x8320. 
SPANISH TUTORING-Speaking, reading, 
writing. Spanish language and Latin American 
literature, classic and contemporary. R. 
Reverter-Pez.et, 21 Lynwood Place, 776-7715 
early mornings or late nights. 
Wanted: Experienced typist, electric type-
writer preferred. To type a 200-page job. 
Interesting, good pay. Call: Myron Danow, 
776-6100, evenings. 
PLEASE-No more responses to "Damsels" 
ad; we are sated. 


. 
Jim and Annie met over a cadaver. Paladm. 
fjrping 
Regular Service: 
Manuscript copy delivered to our office between 
7 and 9 P.M. will be typed by the following 
night at 35¢ a page. 
Overnight Service: 
Manuscript delivered to our office between 
morning at 60¢ a page. Phone reservations for 
overnight service will be accepted. 
Pick-Up: 
Overnight papers 8:45 A.M.-5:00 P.M., 
regular typing, 7-9 P.M. 
Payment: 
Bursars bill, cash or check. 
Doctoral Dissertations: 
Inquire about special rates. 
Yale Typing Agency 
165 Elm Street, Hendrie Hall 
Telephone: 562-1471


TheNewJoumal 
Remember when there was no New 
Journal? How did you ever get along 
without it? 

It's the magazine that's changing Yale. 
It's appeared every two weeks since 
last October with in-depth reporting, 
lively criticism, profiles, essays, inter-
views, comment, and fiction. This year 
there are 13 issues; next year there'll 
be 14. 

Read The New Journal next year and 
keep in touch with what's interesting, 
at Yale and abroad. 

It's gratis to members of the Yale 
Community. But if you're a graduating 
student, departing faculty member, 
alumnus, interested friend or parent, 
you can subscribe now for next 
year. $4.50. 

0 $4.50 enclosed 
0 Bill 
<Zip Code> 
For a year's subscription in the name of 
0 theabove 
0 Other 


--- Page 20 ---

THE YALE REPERTORY THEATRE PRESENTS WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE'S 
WITH THE RESIDENT COMPANY AND THE STUDENTS OF THE SCHOOL OF DRAMA 
MAY 6 THROUGH 18 : FOR RESERVATIONS CALL 56?-9953; ALSO AT THE YALE CO-OP

