Publication date: March 9, 1969
Volume: two
Issue number: eight

**MASTHEAD**
- Editors: Jeffrey Pollock, Jonathan Lear
- Business Manager: Jean-Pierre Jordan
- Executive Editor: Herman Hong
- Art Director: Bruce Mcintosh
- Associate Editor: Lawrence Lasker
- Advertising Manager: K. Elia Georgiades
- Copy Editor: Paul Bennett
- Photography Editor: Robert Randolph
- Circulation Managers: John Adams, Steve Thomas
- Contributing Editors: Paul Goldberger, Susan Holahan, William L. Kahrl, Mopsy S. Kennedy, Michael Lerner, Leo Ribuffo
- Staff: Tom Abel, Anna Fleck, Nita Kalish, Michael Rose, Deborah Rubin, Scott Simpson, Joel Skidmore, Nancy Vickers, Warner Wada, Michael Waltuch


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- George Richmond and "micro-economics" - Paul Goldberger
- Sam Fuller: an interview - Marty Rubin and Eric Sherman
- Teaching Black studies - Austin Clarke


**Title: In Comment: Sarah gets the axe, Schulz gives the same to Ribuffo, Ribuffo replies in kind, and the dramat turns out to be a few actors in search of a director.**
**Author: Sarah**
**Page number(s): 2**

When this observer sacked out at 5 A.M. 
on the first day of Sarah Lawrence's Coed 
Week, there were still a fair number of bull 
sessions in progress. One group stayed up 
all night discussing "consciousness," although by discussion's end they must have 
been talking only from memory. However, 
to imply that all the girls were eager, or 
even willing, to get to know the recent 
arrivals would be inaccurate. A number of 
the male participants noted fierce indifference on the part of many of the permanent 
residents.


Classes must not be very central to the 
education process at Sarah Lawrence, for 
the girls did not seem to take them very 
seriously. Even in comparison with Yale 
seminars, for which the level of preparation is often not very impressive, the class 
discussions betrayed a remarkable lack of 
familiarity with the material at hand. But 
the classes are not a waste of time. Probably having long since reconciled themselves to the obvious fact that the students 
are not going to be able to sustain very 
learned discussions, the teachers go to 
rather imaginative lengths at least to keep 
their students entertained for the hour, if 
only to break the silence which would 
otherwise prevail. In one European history 
class the professor's short attempt at substantive discussion of the political and economic relationships of the various social 
classes during Louis XIV's reign was met 
with general looking out of windows and 
lighting up of cigarettes. The class spent 
most of the time airing their views as to 
whether Louis was "really happy" living at 
Versailles. A visitor from Harvard noted 
a certain lack of "analytical rigor" in the 
class's discussion, demonstrating a capacity for understatement for which his 
institution is not particularly known.


This apparent lack of interest in class is 
not meant to suggest that Sarah Lawrence 
has anything in common with Briarcliff, 
beyond proximity. I was roundly assured 
by students and teachers alike that the real 
education goes on in the conferences. 
Conferences, for those unfamiliar with the 
jargon, are described by the Sarah Lawrence catalogue as follows: 
"Conferences permit continual interchange 
between students and faculty and afford students the kind of personal guidance in their 
work that should enable them to move ahead 
to higher levels of understanding and fuller 
use of their developing talents."


In other words, conferences are a system 
in which each student meets regularly with 
each of her professors to demonstrate her 
ignorance not only of the material assigned 
to the entire class but also of material in 
her field of particular interest.


In most cases the visiting males refrained from participating in class discussions, perhaps under the delusion, perpetrated at some leading Eastern universities, that one should be familiar with the material under discussion before opening 
his mouth. However there were some 
reports of guys not only participating, but 
pressing their points rather vigorously. 
These stories were generally related by the 
natives with an amused comment about 
little boys attempting to assert their masculinity. In fact there are few things a guy 
can do that will be less appreciated by 
Sarah Lawrence girls than to attempt to 
suggest his masculine superiority. These 
women are generally not well disposed, at 
least intellectually, to any such doctrine.


While calling the visitors "coeds" was a 
widely repeated joke around the campus 
on Monday, I suggest that by the end of 
the week many of the guys were wondering, if they ever were to get one of these 
girls into bed, who would wind up on top. 
However, once again the temptation to 
generalize must be curbed, when the subject is the Sarah Lawrence student body. 


In the fight presently being waged against 
a higher tuition, for example, two of the 
leading figures (the author of the students' 
alternative to the hike and the chairman 
of the open meeting held last week) were 
men. And as only thirteen of the 592 students at Sarah Lawrence are male, this is 
rather suggestive. One cannot help pondering whether these girls are, in fact, no 
more truly "liberated" than the girls in the 
building occupied by the Colombia students last spring, who (according to a 
friend on the inside) "did all the cooking 
and cleaning up, while the men went out 
to defend the fortress."


The other current campus issue, not 
unrelated to the tuition increase, is the 
"diversity" of the student body. The present tuition and room and board fee of 
$3,950, coupled with the limited scholarship funds available, do circumscribe the 
range of backgrounds from which the students are drawn. In fact, most of the girls 
seem to come from upper-middle and 
upper class homes in the New York area, 
a limitation which is presently the subject 
of much debate. What is most interesting 
is that the freshman class, generally drawn 
from terribly respectable and probably 
sheltered homes, is collectively regarded 
as a wild group of people, even by Sarah 
Lawrence's permissive standards. It is a 
well accepted adage around the campus 
that "whatever you are looking for can be 
found in the freshman dorms." The story 
of the freshmen who gave LSD to their 
cat and then dropped him from a fourth-
floor window to see if he would land on 
his feet (he did not) was the wildest of the 
freshman stories, but not by as large a 
margin as might be expected. In many 
cases, though, the upper-class years find a 
return to a more sedate style of life. Perhaps these girls will come full circle and 
return to nearby Scarsdale to raise a family 
and spend their days as fruitlessly as their 
frustrated mothers, possibly substituting 
pot for alcohol, demonstrating that their 
Sarah Lawrence education did not fail to 
leave some impression.


Don Davis


**Title: So Who's a Schmo?**
**Author: Don Davis**
**Page number(s): 2-3, 14**

Leo Ribuffo tells us that graduate students 
are schmoos. Leo Rosten tells us that Al 
Capp's endearing little creature is actually 
a schmo and that "any schmo knows what 
a schmo really is." Are graduate students 
really as bad as the pungent Yiddish epithet applied to them implies? Mr. Ribuffo 
doesn't really seem to know. For with all 
his railing against the insufferable dullness 
of Yale graduate students, he implies that 
most of these poor wretches could, if they 
awakened their sleeping imaginations, 
blossom into something productive like a 
dentist, a lawyer, a writer, a musician or a 
forest ranger. If graduate students really 
have within themselves the power to set 
the world ablaze but just can't seem to 
realize it, then, like the repressed dames of 
Victorian fiction, they are more to be pitied 
than censured. If, on the other hand, they 
each wrongly think they could drill teeth 
with more verve than Major Peress, argue 
the law more deftly than Perry Mason, 
write hotter stuff than Harold Robbins, 
play a meaner flute than King David and 
sniff out more fires than Smokey the Bear, 
then they are indeed "schmos."


I propose we find out just how much 
hidden brain and talent there is among 
graduate students in a way that would 
more than satisfy Mr. Ribuffo's plea for 
more frivolity and whimsy among the 
Ph.D. seekers. Could not graduate students 
agree to re-do something they have all been 
through many times since summer camp 
days, namely have an all-graduate-student 
revue? Here is the ideal vehicle for releasing all the pent-up energies that have 
smoldered for so long in the graduate's 
breast. I do not for one moment believe 
that much real talent will be discovered in 
such a venture, and I fear that a musical 
extravaganza staged by my peers may be 
about as whimsical as the leaden matzo 
balls my grandmother, the worst cook in 
Grodno Gobernya, used to inflict upon her 
family. This is beside the point, for a Yale 
grad revue will provide its perpetrators 
with something to tell their grandchildren 
which will be more true than tales of their 
disastrous love affairs and less damaging 
to their sense of decency than the real story 
of how they invented half of the sources 
listed in the bibliographies of their doctoral 
dissertations.


Obviously the vulgar talent needed to 
produce a satirical-romantical revue 
abounds in the Yale graduate school. In 
college the aspiring but incompetent playwright had to compete with students who 
could actually write plays, the ham with 
the real actor, the wise guy with people 
with real senses of humor, and the high 
school drum major with the musician. 
Here in the grad school the pros would be 
excluded and the amateur talent could 
flourish uninhibited.


Ideas for the plot of the revue quickly 
come to mind. A colonial historian I know 
wants to exhume a work he did a few years 
back called "Plymouth Rock." Another 
friend who is torn between a love of the 
transcending power of the Baroque and a 
keenly felt need to be topical wants to 
write something on the current racial situation called "The Well-Tempered Cleaver." 
I myself favor a saga about a former graduate student who becomes in turn a dentist, 
lawyer and novelist while living in a forest 
and destroying his mind by blowing the 
oboe. Mr. Ribuffo could certainly contribute some wheezy but serviceable jokes, 
for in his eleven paragraphs he was able to 
drop a gag (the one about the kvetch-
schrift) which does not yet suffer from 
rigor mortis.


Performers should be no harder to corral. Probably ninety percent of all grads 
were made to endure some sort of music 
lessons in their youth. Surely a band


continued on page 14


**Title: George Richmond and "micro-economics"; or if you want a fifth-grader to learn, you might try paying him.**
**Author: Paul Goldberger**
**Page number(s): 3**

When George Richmond entered the fifth-
grade classroom where he was to begin his 
teaching career, he was, by his own admission, naive. The school was P.S. 250 in 
Williamsburg, Brooklyn; the students were 
Spanish-speaking inhabitants of a New 
York ghetto; and Richmond, like so many 
young Ivy League intellectuals self-consciously "doing their thing" in inner-city 
schools, was scared. "I found myself in the 
midst of a war not only between student 
and student," he recalls. "Each day cost me 
a year of my life." Richmond saved himself-
and in the process saved a good 
many of his "unsavable" students as well-
by creating perhaps the most radical re-
thinking of urban education methods in 
the last hundred years.


Richmond restructured his classroom 
along the lines of the ghetto values. Marks, 
he reasoned, were a middle-class concept; 
why not replace them with an incentive 
meaningful to lower-class students? That 
incentive was money, and money-in the 
form of a paper scrip system-
became the 
reward for academic performance. Students were paid for high test marks, homework assignments and extra compositions, 
and once a month Richmond's wife supplied baked goods which backed the paper 
money system and were apportioned to 
each class member according to his accumulated wealth. The system, christened 
"micro-economics," worked so well that 
in P.S. 122, the second school Richmond 
tried it in, the reading level of his class of 
inner-city fifth graders rose from a minimum of eight months to four years as 
measured by standardized tests. Money, 
even play money, was real where grades 
never had been.


The system sounds simple, and basically 
it is; yet perhaps only a man like Richmond 
could have created it. Raised on New 
York's Lower East Side, also a slum area, 
Richmond's painting abilities earned him 
admission to the High School of Music and 
Art; he made it to Yale in 1962 ("barely-
I was what they called a risk student") 
after he asked the admissions officer who 
had just reviewed a portfolio of his drawings whether he would like to hear him 
recite a scene from Shakespeare. Before 
the startled interviewer could respond, 
Richmond was into his recitation. He 
ended up with a full scholarship.


Richmond's career here began unevent-
Paul Goldberger, a freshman in Stiles, is a 
contributing editor of The New Journal
fully; he was notable largely for his initial 
dislike of Yale. "I couldn't stand the 
Gothic architecture, the extreme hedonism 
of the place," he says. Then he met Mr. and 
Mrs. Richard Sewall, and the angry young 
artist from the slums began to feel at home. 
Sewall, master of Ezra Stiles College, 
took a liking to Richmond and agreed to 
sponsor some of his artistic work for Yale. 
At first the Sewalls were somewhat shocked-
Richmond had simply walked into the 
brand-new Stiles Master's House to introduce himself "because I liked the architecture." But once they became acquainted, 
Sewall ended up commissioning the 14' x 
14' tapestry that now hangs in the Stiles 
dining hall, a smaller version for the Master's House and some forty murals for the 
rest of the college.


"He was the most cheerful and interesting freshman I'd seen in a long time," 
Sewall now recalls. "We asked him to stay 
for supper, and we lingered for two or 
three hours talking. 'I want to come to 
Ezra Stiles,' he said, 'because you've got a 
lot of blank walls.' " It was Richmond who 
originally suggested the dining-hall tapestry, which filled the Sewalls' basement for 
the entire winter it took to finish. Three 
seamstresses were needed to complete 
Richmond's abstract creation, pieced together with squares of colored cloth to give 
the effect of a mosaic.


The Sewalls' enthusiasm provided the 
start Richmond needed. He held a show of 
drawings in the Stiles buttery and sold 
several works, then continued to replace 
them until, as Sewall says, "We were literally covered by Richmond products." 
Prompted by his sudden success, Richmond went to Italy to try his hand at the 
tapestry business. One of the products of 
his European phase now hangs in an apartment-house lobby in Kenmore Square, 
Boston.


After his graduation from Yale in 1966, 
Richmond set off to Antioch College for 
a session as a Peace Corps trainee. He met 
Jill Orear, a senior at Antioch, and left the 
Peace Corps after a month to marry her. 
He then accepted a position at Antioch 
designing the "Arts in Appalachia" program, then sat back to wait for his wife 
to finish college. That done, the couple set 
off for New York and a summer of the 
city's Intensive Teacher Training Program 
prior to taking on P.S. 250.


Meanwhile, Richmond had been awaiting action on an application for alternative 
service as a conscientious objector. A member of the Society of Friends, he suffered 
through an FBI investigation, a Justice 
Department hearing and two years of waiting before, as he puts it, "they finally 
judged me sincere."


Today Richmond is back in New Haven, 
serving as assistant to the director of the 
Transitional Year Program, a program 
for inner-city high school graduates designed to bridge the gap between high 
school and college. TYP makes use of Yale 
facilities, but its support comes from the 
Rockefeller Foundation. Richmond 
teaches humanities and serves as a dormitory counselor to the male students in the 
program, who live in the Elm Street building which also houses his apartment-a 
cavernous, old, high-ceilinged suite of five 
rooms, reached by an ancient elevator 
painted fire-engine red by a bored fellow 
student.


The Richmonds' apartment is white and 
sparsely furnished; most of the space is 
taken up by Richmond's paintings, which 
fill the walls of every room and seem 
almost to overflow the apartment. His two 
albums of drawings, the Book of Rath and 
the Book of Joys--macabre and delightful, seeming crosses between Ronald 
Searle's cartoons and art nouveau--compete with books for storage space in the 
study. During my visit an oil in progress 
sat on the living-room easel, dominating 
the room. Richmond sat in a rocker just 
across from the easel, eager to talk about 
TYP or micro-economics, but not about 
art: "I've now become an educator," he 
said, "and now people, including me, are 
concerned with things of the world today. 
The art is other-worldly, it is about the 
imagination, and I prefer a private investigation of the imagination. So I paint just 
for myself now." He has also put an end to 
selling his work: "Now that I have a salary 
and a wife, I don't have to."


He said The New Journal was welcome 
to reprint a few drawings, and suddenly 
he was up from his chair, busying himself 
with the Book of Rath and the Book of 
Joys. "Take this," he said producing a 
frightening pen-and-ink piece of surrealism 
-"no, maybe not, it's too sick." He smiled 
and gave it to me anyway, then carefully 
selected three more samples of his talent. 


The care with which Richmond selected 
the sample drawings-he spent considerable time musing over the albums--is 
characteristic of him. He has worked tirelessly on the micro-economics program, 
and hopes to win the support of a graduate 
school for research into the area.


So far micro-economics has been tried 
in only two classrooms, the P.S. 250 and 
P.S. 122 fifth grades Richmond taught 
during 1967-68; yet in both situations, the 
program was successful almost from the 
start. Basically, as Richmond explains it, 
micro-economics represented simply a use 
of means familiar to the ghetto--financial 
inducement-in place of means like 
grades, products of a middle-class approach which Richmond sees as based on 
"incentives of feudal sophistication." The 
end, academic progress, stayed the same; 
only the inducement changed. Yet in the 
process, Richmond notes, academic progress suddenly became acceptable, and 
the criteria for prestige in his classroom 
changed: "The original leadership based 
on force, strength and muscle alliances was 
replaced by an elite, determined by ability 
and wealth."


Once the system of monetary rewards 
for academic achievement was firmly 
entrenched, Richmond expanded the program to include a real-estate game. Stu-



**Title: THE ASSOCIATED STUDENT AGENCIES OF YALE**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
THE ASSOCIATED STUDENT 
AGENCIES OF YALE 
money to be had in the Student Agencies 
freshmen- heel for managerships 
anyone- work for cash 
SALES TO STUDENTS, FACULTY, AND FAMILIES 
Birthday Cake Agency 
Cap & Gown Agency 
Foreign Car Agency 
Furniture Agency 
Magazine Agency 
Appliance Agency (Refrigerator rentals) 
Newspaper Sales Agency 
Rug Sales Agency 
Sales Agency (Rings, Banners, Mugs) 
Stationery Agency 
Yale University Student Laundry 
SPECIALIZED SERVICES 
Accomodations, Tutoring and Typing Agency 
Computer Programming Agency (Proposed) 
PUBLICATION AND SPACE SALES 
Blotter 
Yale Directory 
Yale University Calendar 
The Eli Book 
JUST PLAIN WORK 
Distribution Agency 
Firewood Agency 
Newspaper Delivery Agency 
Newsstand 
Yale Buttery 
Yale Student Laundry 
Contact any agency manager or: 
Mr. Bair 
Mr. Forbes 
Hendrie Hall 
Office of Financial Aids 
165 Elm Street 
111 Prospect Street 
561-1209 or 
Ext. 459 
Ext. 333 
have we missed a good idea? 
let us know -we exist primarily to generate 
srudent income 
Associated Student Agencies of Yale University 
: ... ... 
dents used their scrip to purchase blocks 
of imaginary real estate and make invest-
ments, like a vast game of Monopoly, 
which grew, Richmond says, "until one 
day a group of students came to me and 
asked why they couldn't establish a bank. 
Soon after, a savings institution developed. 
We created an entire credit system, and 
some students became professional bank-
ers in the classroom." Richmond supple-
mented the math curriculum with simple 
lessons in accounting, corporate finance 
and economics to guide the citizens of his 
micro-economy. To guide the leader of the 
micro-economy, the help of New York 
University was invoked: Richmond be-
came a registered student at the School of 
Business Administration. 
Soon, Richmond recalls, the game began 
almost automatically to produce the social 
revolution he had hoped for. "There was 
a young boy in the class who on the whole 
was shy and retiring," he says, "and be-
· 
cause of the class structure motivated by 
muscle, he had played little, if any, part in 
the Class esteem. Yet he nearly always 
scored one hundred on his math tests, and 
under the pressure of the game began to 
do the same on his spelling tests. At a 
dollar a point, he began to amass quite a 
bit of cash and to loan it out at attractive 
interest rates. Soon, unbeknownst to him-
self and the class, he began to achieve 
enviable stature and importance in their 
lives. The social order went through a quiet 
revolution, and acumen combined with 
work became respectable. I managed to 
convince him to employ the ruffians in the 
class to collect everyone's debts, and we 
had the beginnings of a police system." 
Richmond's students became increas-
ingly aware of their adjusted statuses, and 
it was perhaps only a matter of time before 
one student asked whether there was a 
welfare system. Richmond-"because I 
had a wicked sense of ~umor"-said yes, 
and began taxing the rich in the game to 
supply scrip to the poor. Friction grew be-
tween the rich and the poor, but before a 
confrontation could occur, Richmond was 
transferred to an·other school. 
He is hesitant to conclude that his trans-
fer was the· result of the micro-economics 
game. "It could be," he says, "but I have 
no grounds to know for sure." Whatever 
the cause, he started micro-economics with 
his new class, also a group of fifth graders 
from a poor neighborhood. He added a 
reading program to the scrip reward sys-
tem, and it was here that phenomemil rise 
in reading level, from a minimum of eight 
months to four years, took place. 
The second success of micro-economics 
led Richmond to conceive of his current 
plan, which he hopes will win the approval 
of a graduate-school faculty. In collabora-
tion with Bill Watman, now a staff member 
at the Office of Economic Opportunity, 
Richmond expanded the micro-economics 
concept to an entire school. "The school 
would be a small life-game," he says, "with 
the development of school-wide small 
businesses, stockmarket games and even 
horseracing games. There would be a legis-
lative system, and social action programs 
in the real community funded by a founda-
tion within the school." 
Ultimately, Richmond sees the students 
in the urban school, which would be at the 
junior-high level, planning their own 
curriculum. "What they would study 
would be about the city," he says. "They 
would read about welfare, war, love, hate, 
slums, children-the curriculum would be 
in their own vernacular." Richmond's 
urban school would contain a complete 
range of social services, with students 
dealing with criminal offenders-i.e., dis-
cipline problems-in their own way. 
A school store would be open monthly 
to allow for the exchange of scrip for 
merchandise, all earned by academic per-
formance. "This will allow the poor 
student to have some stake in the society," 
Richmond says. "And when he has that 
stake he will protect it. It's as real and as 
near to him as the middle-class system of 
grades is far from him. The school will be 
a state-a state in which the children pre-
pare for life by playing roles, where they 
deal with the real problems of a state." 
The urban school represents an entirely 
new concept of the relationship between 
student and teacher-one generated by 
aggregate demand. Price theory would 
become crucial to the classroom; once the 
school is operating fully on Richmond's 
concepts, students would not only receive 
money for educational achievements, they 
would pay money for the chance to edu-
cate themselves. The course offerings 
would become a marketplace, with stu-
dents purchasing their way into class. 
Faculty and administration would be in 
the position to control prices so as to make 
certain "preferred" courses attractive. 
English, for example, would be priced 
cheaply, and students showing a tendency 
to restrict themselves to one subject area 
would be taxed by the administration for 
extra courses in that area. 
Perhaps the most significant feature of 
George Richmond's urban school is the 
plan for backing the value of the scrip. 
Students can, of course, cash their scrip 
into property at the store, or they can in-
vest it in one of two ways. A system of 
stock and real-estate investing would allow 
students to build up scrip capital, which 
would be redeemed in real cash for a 
fraction of its scrip value at high school 
graduation. The final alternative-and the 
most exciting-is to invest academic 
achievement scrip in "educational bonds," 
which would mature at high school gradu-
ation into college scholarships. Thus, in 
every sense, the ghetto child of the urban 
school will truly ·have earned his own 
college education. 
What are the drawbacks to the system? 
Discussing his proposals in New Haven, 
Richmond sees few, if any. The profit in-
centive, he argues, is here to stay, and be 
finds little wrong with exploiting it to a 
good advantage. He responds to the critics 
who attack the application of real-life eco-
nomic principles to the classroom by 
calling the school the ideal place for first 
grappling with the e.conomy; for "there is 
no such thing as unfair competition in the 
classroom. There are no monopolies, no 
price fixing; no one inherits wealth, 
thereby starting life out in a more advan-
tageous position than the next person, and 
there is no political pull or graft." 
Richmond realizes the radical nature of 
his urban school and, despite its astonish-
ing success on a classroom scale in New 
York, he bas no illusions about its un-
attractiveness to conservative school ad-
ministrators. "But it is a non-utopian 
system," the ex-Yale, ex-Lower East Side 
artist-turned-educator emphasizes, "and is 
only meant as a transitional stage, not an 
end in itself. It's just one possible way out 
of the difficulty our schools are in now." 
It is just one possible way out; but this 
way, unlike all the others, might just work, 
because as George Richmond says, "It 
doesn't come from the educators; it comes 
from the kids." ::;


<br>

**Title: The checkered career of an ex-copyboy: an interview with Samuel Fuller**
**Author: Eric Sherman and Martin Rubin**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

o, 
5 I The New Journal I March 9, 1969 
The checkered career of 
an ex-copyboy: an interview 
with Samuel Fuller 
by Eric Sherman and Martin Rubin 
Eric Sherman, '68, made Charles Lloyd-
Journey Within as a Scholar of the House 
in film. His new film, Mario and the 
Magician, will be shown at Yale on April 4. 
M artin Rubin is the current chairman of 
the Yale Film Society. His next project 
will be a book on the American director 
Douglas Sirk. 
The following interview is an excerpt deal-
ing with only six of Fuller's eighteen films. 
The complete interview, covering his 
career film by film, will be published this 
spring by Atheneum in the Authors' book 
Five American Film Makers. in addition 
to the section on Fuller, the book will 
contain interviews with Budd Boetticher, 
Peter Bokdanovich, Arthur Penn, and 
Abraham Polonsky. 
Samuel Fuller is perhaps the most aggressive 
of all film-makers. His films are concerned 
with the direct physical and visual communi-
cation of emotional impact. In a review of 
The Naked Kiss, critic Michael Delahaye of 
Cahiers du Cinema made an observation 
which could apply to all of Fuller's films: "Let 
him who is not a ghost dare to say he has felt 
nothing." 
. 
Fuller's films often deal with pimps, swin-
dlers, gangsters, prostitutes, petty crooks, 
stool pigeons, low-income detectives--people 
on the lower fringe of society. The borderline 
position of these characters makes them easily 
detachable from the mainstream of social 
concerns and allows them to act out Fuller's 
favorite drama: the conflict between personal, 
emotional interests and the impersonal, 
mechanical responses dictated by social and 
environmental superstructures. 
His police-blotter lineup of characters also 
gives Fuller's stories the flavor of back-page 
features in newspapers like the Daily News or 
the Daily Graphic, for which Fuller was once 
a reporter. For example, one can easily envi-
sion The Naked Kiss in tabloid terms: "EX-
CALL GIRL KILLS MILLIONAIRE FIANCE!" We 
recognize the potential depersonalization of 
these stories into the protective cliches which 
newspaper headlines symbolize (i.e., "150 
KILLED IN PLANE CRASH"). However, Fuller's 
forceful, violent presentation of the material 
erases the comfortable distance we like to 
establish between ourselves and the medium. 
In his recent films, The Crimson Kimono, 
Underworld, USA, Shock Corridor and 
The Naked Kiss, Fuller has shown a complete 
command of the means necessary to shake the 
most complacent audience out of its habitual 
apathy. 
The director's commitment to an emotional 
and personal value system has led many 
critics to oversimplify, to characterize his 
talent as "primitive." Some of Fuller's most 
devoted admirers like to picture their hero as 
some sort of lovable ape-man swinging his 
camera around on a rope. This conception 
would be more viable if Fuller eschewed all 
concerns other than those personal ones he 
prefers. However, Fuller's world-view encom-
passes with equal depth all aspects of the 
conflict he presents. The outer, social frame-
works which threaten his characters' emotion-
al integrity are indicated with admirable force 
in nearly all of his films. The city in Pickup 
on South Street, established in ominous reflec-
tions on street windows and the huge bridge 
looming outside Richard Widmark's shack, 
eventually becomes in Underworld, USA 
the gigantic superstructure of National Proj-
ects, which infects and perverts practically 
every level of American society-from sports 
and charity to fammal devotion and big 
business. 
Fuller's films depict a society in the final 
rigor mortis of institutionalization. He calls 
for a complete revitalization of that society 
on a primal emotional level, even in the most 
violent manner. Fuller's visual equivalent of 
the personil impulse is the close-up, which 
he uses more frequently and more forcefully 
than any other film-maker. The visual rhythm 
throughout Fuller's films is from long-shot to 
close-up and then back to long-shot. Similarly, 
the structure of his stories goes from a long, 
establishing view of an outer framework to 
closer, personal dramas (often in direct con-
flict with the larger perspective) and finally 
back to the original position, now re-evaluated 
and refashioned in completely personal terms. 
The final long-shots of the corridor in Shock 
Corridor and the route to the bus station in 
The Naked Kiss are repeated from contexts 
earlier in the film, but their meaning is com-
pletely changed in light of the volcanic emo-
tional struggles which have intervened. 
With the exceptions of Baron of Arizona, 
Hell and High Water, Merrill's Marauders 
and Shark, Fuller has exercised virtually com-
plete control over every aspect of his films. 
His personality has revealed itself consistently 
and progressively in all eighteen of his motion 
pictures. The following interview was con-
ducted at his home in Los Angeles in Novem-
ber, 1968. 
The Steel Helmet 
Sergeant Zack's (Gene Evans) entire pla-
toon is massacred by the North Koreans. He 
survives by a freak accident involving his 
helmet. He is aided by a Korean orphan whom 
he calls Short Round. They join a platoon 
commanded by a rule-book lieutenant (Steve 
Brodie) whom Zack despises. The platoon sets 
up an observation post in a Buddhist temple, 
and they apprehend a Communist who is lurk-
ing inside. When Short Round is killed by a 
sniper, Zack, in a rage, kills the prisoner. In 
a massive attack on the temple, the lieutenant 
is killed while showing exceptional bravery. 
Zack bestows his charmed helmet on the 
lieutenant's grave and leaves with the other 
three survivors. 
The relation between Sgt. Zack and the 
little boy is similar to the one between 
Price and Drew in The Baron of Arizona. 
Zack doesn't realize the boy's attachment 
to him until after the boy is killed. 
Ah yes! I see what you mean. Any damn 
emotional cementing between them 
grows on them. Yes, you're right. 
What Zack epitomized there was the 
symbol of a non com: no emotion what-
soever. None! Because if you have emo-
tions, you're not in war. There's no time 
for emotion. It becomes a job. You wake 
up. You work a little. Maybe you go on 
·a patrol or a little skirmish line. Your 
fight is very brief. You rest. You crap. 
You eat. Then you go out and shoot 
again. You go to sleep. Then you get 
up . .. . 
If you do this for three years, it's just 
a job. It's a tremendous machine inside 
you. The only emotion you have is, 
''When do I get out of here, and when 
does somebody replace me?" That's 
the only emotion you ever experience 
in war. You become very aware of 
sounds. You become very aware of 
sight. And you become very aware of 
trust in man. Very aware. If I know you 
two fellows are on my right, that•s fine. 
If I'm worried about you, I'm in trouble. 
So I thought it might be a very effec-
tive scene if Zack blows his top, not 
because of the enemy or shooting or all 
that, but because of a kid. You should 
never blow your top over a person 
who's on your side. The kid was on his 
side. You did catch something there; it 
was a growing love affair. It was a love 
story. 
When Zack blew his top, he shot 
down an unarmed P.O.W. To me, that 
was not a shocker. It was to the press. 
Tremendous shocker. A lot of editorials. 
I have all the newspapers. Big full-page 
interviews asking, ''Would You Shoot 
This Man?" You see, I think it's a little 
on the stupid side, when you're in war, 
to hold your fire just because a man 
puts his hands up. Five minutes before 
that, he's shooting at you. He runs out 
of ammunition; he can put his hands up. 
I mean, certainly there's no law. If 
there's a law in war, then we're really 
completely nuts. Now, we're only 
ninety-nine percent nuts. But if there's 
a law .. . how can there be a law in an 
illegal act? 
So I cannot get concerned about 
shooting a prisoner. It means nothing 
to me. Absolutely nothing. I think the 
idea of shooting a man is more impor-
tant. I don't care whether he's a friend 
or an enemy. But the idea that we have 
laws and Geneva Conventions and rules 
and regulations is a cover-up for a lot 
of stupid things. 
To me, the thrill of war-.nd there 
is a tremendous thrill--is death. That's 
the only thing I'm really interested in, 
because it's the only mystery. That's 
why I'll always dramatize it. I don't 
think there's anything more dramatic 
in motion pictures than death, even 
though w.e assume we're cold-blooded 
a nd can take it for granted. I don't know 
of any other subject. At all. 
I seldom heard a dying man make a 
speech. The general things you hear, 
when a man is hit next to you, are, "Oh 
no. Oh hell. Oh hell no. Ohhhh noooo. 
Please. Please. Not me." 
That's exactly what the "mute" soldier in 
Steel Helmet says when he's killed. 
Oh right! That's what he says. That's 
what you say, and you go. That's exactly 
what happens. None of this: " Now, I 
want to tell you one thing, Joshua . .. 
Two miles down there, you go to your 
left, you find Nora ... She's got a horse 
waiting ... Tell her the sheriff said, 
'lchabod Crane was right.' " 
It's selfish. All exits are selfish--and 
personal. And that's the way it should 
be. 
Pickup on South Street 
On a crowded subway, Skip McCoy (Richard 
Widmark) picks the purse of Candy (Jean 
Peters). Among his booty, although he 
does not know it at the time, is a piece of 
top-secret microfilm that was being passed by 
Candy's consort, a communist agent (Richard 
Kiley). When Candy discovers the where-
abouts of the film through Moe Williams 
(Thelma Ritter), a police informer, she at-
tempts to seduce McCoy and recover the film. 
After several failures, she falls in love with 
him. The desperate agent exterminates Moe 
and savagely beats Candy. McCoy, now 
goaded into action, apprehends the agent in 
a particularly brutal fight in a subway. McCoy 
and Candy, temporarily reformed, are re-
united. 
The opening of the picture is played com-
pletely without d ialogue, when Widmark 
picks the girl's pocketbook containing the 
secret information. This gives the action 
a great deal of ambiguity. It's only much 
later in the picture that you find out what 
actually transpired. So, instead of starting 
out on a "Commies versus the Good Guys" 
note, you're primarily concerned with 
personal issues from the start. 
You're right about the ambiguity. The 
ending is like that,·too. Some people 
thought, ''Well, I guess he'll go off with 
the girl and be happy." I gave her a line 
at the end to show that they'll never 
change. The cop nys, " No matter wlult 
happens, l'lrfind this son-of-a-bitch in 
a week or two with his hand in some-
body's pocket." She says, ''You wanna 
bet?" The way she wid that showed tlult



**Title: (Continued) The checkered career of an ex-copyboy: an interview with Samuel Fuller**
**Page number(s): 6**

61 The New Journal I March 9, 1969 
I wanted the audience to feel he even· 
tually will go back to picking pockets, 
and she'll go back to doing whatever 
the hell she wu doing. 
This is what I got a kick out of in the 
picture: the idea of having a pickpocket, 
a police informer and a h• lf-assed 
hooker u the three main characters. 
The picture was made in about eighteen 
or twe nty days at Fox. A big picture for 
me. The whole thing was shot in down-
town L.A., and I used a lot of tricks to 
make It look like New York. 
Was the subway a set? 
It was a set. I told the ut director I 
w anted those stairs, because I liked the 
idea of Widmark pulling Kiley down 
by the ankles, and the heavy's chin 
hits e ve ry step. Dat-dat-dat-dat-dat: it's 
musical. 
Although you establish the city very force-
fully in the film, you seem to be more 
interested in individuals than in the struc-
tures, political or otherwise, that surround 
the characters. 
Oh, sure. More than that, too. I specifi-
cally hit hard on describing Kiley not as 
a communist but •s an agent. There's a 
big difference. Tremendous difference. 
An agent is a paid employee. If tomor· 
row •nother country will give him more 
money, he will do it for them. It's got 
nothing to do with p•rty affiliation. 
Nothing political•bout it at all. But 
when I talked to people, even on the 
set, all they thought wu, "Well, he's a 
Commie." I didn't want just that. That's 
too obvious. 
A Commie doesn't mean to me what 
he does to a lot of other people. I mean, 
there are communists all over the world. 
I even know communists who hate 
other communists. Frankly, I don't un-
derstand what they're talking about. 
It's all meaningless. Politics bore me, 
but the politici•ns do not bore me, be-
cause they're chuuters. 
That's why I played down the politi· 
cal situation in Pickup. I was not inter-
ested in the structure. I could have had 
a hell of • big scene with fifty or sixty 
extras. They're all gathered together, 
and the head man says: ''This is terrible. 
What about the Party?" You never hear 
the word "Party'' in my film. 
You are never even told that the FBI 
man in Pickup is from the FBI. He's just 
from the government. I didn't w•nt to 
pinpoint it. At th•t time, Fuchs, the Brit-
ish espionage agent, had been arrested 
for selling information to Russia. The 
government man in the film says to 
Widmark, "You know about Fuchs. You 
know what he did.'' Wid mark says, "I 
don't know what you're t•lking about. 
I don't care.'' That's the mood I wanted 
to get in the picture. 
This seemed to be the most "close-up" of 
your films. You even kept dolying in from 
a close-up to a more extreme close-up. 
Oh yes. You noticed that? I like to do 
that sometimes. My first film, I Shot 
Jesse James, was also shot with a lot 
of close-ups. 
Why? 
Because I'm not interested in the bank 
or the people in the bank. I'm interested 
in a teller who is going to be shot and 
the man who is going to shoot him. The 
same thing in Pickup. Come to think of 
it, there are very few extras in the film, 
very few people around .. . . 
There was another technique in the film 
which I especially liked: the way you 
moved the camera. For example, at one 
point Widmark has to get out of his shack:, 
and be swings across the water on a rope. 
Rather than simply following the action, 
the camera moved back before he swung. 
There was the same type of thing in the 
long-take where Jean Peters is getting beat 
up by Kiley. The camera would go to 
where the action was going, before the 
action actually went there. 
In that scene with Peters, I told the 
camer•man, "Give me a leeway. M•ke 
it loose enough, but fluid at all times. 
Don't hang around too long.'' I w•nted 
th•t fluidity, because the camer• can 
help the eye with action. If your camer• 
is moving, and your action is moving-
boy, you have •ctionl lf your action is 
moving, •nd your camera is st•tionary, 
it is not that effective. It's •lso better not 
to just follow the action. Again, it's your 
eye. I want to go beyond the eye. So 
you have two sets of eyes: the camera 
is moving, and your own eye is moving. 
Just before the scene of Thelma Ritter's 
death, there's a shot of her seUing her neck-
ties in a construction area at night. I got 
a hellish, underworld feeling from that 
shot. Were you trying for this? 
Oh no. What I wanted there was con· 
struction. I wanted something that is 
being born right before somebody is 
dead. I w•nted something alive. I 
wanted one of those riveting machines 
and fire and lights and life. Alivel 
Noisy! Because it's going to be very 
quiet soon-for her. 
Forty Guns 
Griff Bonnell (Barry Sullivan) and his brother 
Wes (Gene Barry) ride into town and throw 
Brockie Drummond (John Ericson), a local 
troublemaker, into jail. Brockie's sister Jessica 
(Barbara Stanwyck) comes with her forty 
hired gunmen and frees Brockie. After 
Brockie kills Wes on his wedding day, Griff 
confronts him. Using his sister's body as a 
shield, Brockie threatens Griff. Griff, ignoring 
his personal feelings toward Jessica, shoots 
both of them. 
I was originally going to c• ll it Woman 
with a Whip. I don't like the title Forty 
Guns: it's meaningless to me. Origin•l-
ly, Marilyn Monroe wanted to play the 
lead role. She liked the idea of this girl 
surrounded by all these men. I thought 
she was too young for what I wanted. 
I wanted a mothe r-sister flavor there. 
The stuntmen refused to do the scene 
where the Stanwyck chuacter is 
dragged by a horse. They thought it was 
too dangerous. So Stanwyck said she'd 
do it, and she did it. We did it the first 
time, and I said: "I didn't like it. It was 
too far away from the came ra truck. 
We're not getting what I want." So we 
tried it again, and I didn't like it. She 
made no complaint. We tried it a third 
time, a nd it was just the way I wanted 
it. She was quite bruised, quite bruised. 
Oh yes. That was for the mood. I just 
wanted something beautiful, because 
the idea of technical, mechanical beauty 
(I usually don't like anything mechani-
cal) was the only contrut I could get to 
the action, the violence. I tried to time 
each one of those dissolves so that it 
was almost like music, a beautiful piece 
of music, and all hell broke loose right 
after or right before that. l couldn't 
have gotten any other contrast, unless I 
used along talking scene, and I didn't 
want that. 
Contrut makes emotion-that's what 
makes music, that's what makes paint· 
ing. Rembrandt, with his color, will use 
beautiful, subdued black-black-blue or 
blue-blue-black--Jesus, you can't tell 
what color it Js...-.-.nd then there's that 
hot gold or red with that one light. 
That's beautiful contrast. I just love that 
kind of stuff. I tried to get It in those 
long dissolves. 
T here is a pervasive sense of death in the 
picture, connected with sexual acts specifi-
cally. The most striking example of this is 
the wedding scene, where the groom is shot 
and falls dead on his bride. 
You're right. I thought I would get a 
little touch of that in. I liked the idea of 
the honeymoon bed being the grave. 
The only time he really got to touch her, 
he was dead. 
I thought I would even contrast that 
scene a little bit, as far as sex was con-
cerned, with the sce ne where the gun-
smith's daughter measures Gene Barry 
for a weapon. I thought I'd have a little 
fun with sex, because the connotations 
were all there. I had a shot where he 
looks at the girl through a loose gun 
barrel; and as she walks, he pans with 
her, just like a camera. When I wu in 
Paris, Godard told me he used that shot 
in Breathless, except that instead of a 
rifle, Belmondo rolls up a newspaper 
and follows Seberg walking. Godard 
said he took that from my film. 
I could not use my original ending. I 
was asked to change it, and I changed 
it. The ending I originally shot was a 
· powe rful ending. I had Sullivan facing 
the killer, the young brother of Stan· 
wyck. I had him grab Stanwyck and 
hold her in front of him. He knew he 
had Sullivan in a spot. I had him defy 
Sullivan. And Sullivan kills Stanwyck. 
Then he kills the boy and walks away. 
That was the end of the pidure. 
I had to put in that line where Sulli-
van says that he aimed the bullet so that 
it wouldn't kill Stanwyck. She's alive in 
the end, and they're happy. I didn't 
like that ending. A lot of people liked it, 
because they like to see the boy and 
the girl get together. I don't think that's 
important. I think it's much more dra-
matic the other way, because Sullivan 
has to blow his top. That's why he 
hasn't used a gun in ten years. But the 
moment he squeezes that trigger, he's 
a diffe rent man. He's an executioner, 
and he kills anything in front of him. 
Underworld, USA 
When he was a child, Tolly Devlin (Cliff 
Robertson), now a petty safecracker, saw four 
shadows on a wall beat and kill his father. He 
has devoted his life to tracking down the 
murderers. In a prison hospital, one of them 
divulges the other names as he dies. They are 
Gunther (Gerald Milton}, Gela (Paul Dubov) 
and Smith (Allen Greuner), top men in a 
huge crime syndicate known as Underworld, 
USA. which is run under the business front 
of National Projects by Earl "Boss" Connors 
(Robert Emhardt). Devlin infiltrates the or-
ganization and uses the law to dispose of all 
three men. Having accomplished his purpose, 
he seeks to withdraw and marry Cuddles 
(Dolores Dorn), a prostitute whom he is using 



**Title: Underworld, USA**
**Author: Samuel Fuller (Interview)**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
71 The New Journal ! March 9, 1969 
as a witness against Smith. However, by this 
time, he is too deeply entangled in Under-
world, USA, and he must kill Connors to free 
himself. In the struggle be himself is shot, and 
be dies in the same alley where his father was 
murdered. 

A theme of cleanliness runs through the 
entire film. It starts with Cliff Robertson 
sterilizing instruments in a prison hospital 
and ends when, as he's dying, be stumbles 
over a trashcan which says "Keep Your 
City Cle.an." Why did you use this? 

Again, I wanted contrast. In addition 
to the sterilization of utensils, I told 
Robertson to put the bandages on the 
man very gently, very precisely, like a 
surgeon. I wanted to get that effect: he's 
so clean about those bandages even 
when he's double-crossing the man he's 
putting them on. 

I also tried to get a contrast wherever 
I could between the cleanliness of the 
head of National Projects and the dis-
cussion he's carrying on about narcotics 
and prostitution and murder. I picked 
the swimming pool location for that 
reason. I wanted that hollow, clean 
atmosphere you get around a swim-
ming pool. It's too bad we can't have 
a smell in motion pictures be cause 
there's an antiseptic smell around a 
pool, like in a gym. I thought that the 
cleanest thing in the world is a pool. 
So I had this crime organization hold 
their meetings there, rather than in the 
pompous office or the pool hall or the 
dingy little room where gangsters usu-
ally hang out. I wanted to get that con-
trast to what they're talking about: it's 
so vile and low. 

Why did you depict National Projects, the 
front for Underworld, USA, as such a 
typical business organization, with adding 
machines and bankers and everything? 

It's all done mechanically. lt's almost 
like robots, like computer systems. As 
a matter of fact, I don't doubt that crime 
today is governed by computers. If I 
were to make that picture today, I'd 
show nothing but twenty machines. No 
people, just all the machines. I wanted 
to get that flavor of mechanization in 
the picture. 

It seemed that crime was defined in the film 
as lack of emotion. U nderworld, USA, was 
lack of emotion. 

Yes. And also a facade of good citizen-
ship. Remember that Boss Connors said: 
"We'll always win. All we have to do is 
pay a little taxes, go to church, send a 
couple of kids through school, set up 
a few charities on the side. We'll win. 
We always have. We always will." 

Whe n I shot the bookkeeping and the 
adding machines and all that, I tried to 
show the man's hand in the foreground 
hitting the keys very fast. That, to me, 
was Underworld, USA, what he was 
doing: tic-tic-tic-tic bing-bing tic-tic-tic-
tic . ... It never stopped. 

The coldness of the organization is par-
ticularly well reflected in the Richard Rust 
character, the paid killer. He commits his 
murders totally without commitment, 
almost casually. 

Now there's an honest character! That is 
a man who is not a psychotic; there's 
nothing insane about him. He just has a 
job: He certainly isn't interested in 
killing that little kid. There's no ven-
geance in it! There's no emotion in the 
man at all. That's what finally terrorizes 
Robertson-the way Rust says: "We 
have to wipe out this girl. If you do a 
good job, it'll get you in with the boss." 
The only emotion he has is that it will 
get him in with the boss. To knock off 
a g irl means nothing to him. 

I didn't want Rust to do anything that 
deviated from the character of a pro-
fessional killer, except one thing. I told 
him, "When you're getting ready to kill 
somebody, put on your dark glasses; 
then we'll never know whether or not 
you want to see anything, or whether 
or not you're feeling anything." You 
see, I wanted to keep away from emo-
tion. I didn't want a character like in 
the old gangster pictures: he likes his 
mother, he supports his brother, he has 
a little dog, he feeds goldfish. I didn't 
want that. 

Newspapers are present in a lot of your 
films. I particularly liked their use in this 
one. It seemed to me that there was a 
deliberate contrast in the film between 
witnessing the terrifying corruption of 
Underworld, USA, as in the murder of 
the little girl, and then seeing these things 
on the printed page, completely deper-
sonalized. 

Usually, newspapers are overdone in 
movies. But I don't mind showing some-
thing and then showing a contrast of it 
in the press. I feel the same way about 
flashbacks. Unless the flashback has


**A Double Bill of Off-B'dw y Hits: The Indian Wants the Bronx and It's Called the Sugar Plum**
**Author: Israel Horovitz**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
-=-= -_-.;:(. 
_____ :g 
---~-1 
- -:.: ~ ::-·-=::1 
-·-·---·· 
. ~{ 
~;.· ·-;:- ,·· 
.::-. -:.·:_-) 
March 7-Much 29 
Mon.-Fri. 8:30 
Sat. 5 and 9 
LongWharfTheatre 
=~-·= 
A Double Bill of Off-B'dw y Hits: . 
The Indian Wants the Bronx 
and 
It's Called the Sugar Plum 
by Israel Horovitz 
Obie and Drama Desk-Vernon Rice Award 
Winners in 1968 
"Indian is an extraordinary study 
of the psychology of terrorism ... 
cool fluid, swaggering." Village Voice 
"Indian ... is one of the most hope-
ful things in the New York theatre." 
Clive Barnes, NY Times 
"Sugar Plum: a funny premise, 
just 'sick' eooullh to be piquant, and 
Horovitz develops it skillfully." Sullivan, NY Times 
Free limousine service from 
Hotel Taft to theatre for Sat. matinee. 
STUDENT PREVIEWS 
Wed . Ma r. 5; Thurs. Mar. 6 


XEROX COPIES ON YOUR MIND?

given her a Naked Kiss, she's shocked 
and he's shocked that she's shocked. ' 
Since she's a hooker, he thought that 
she would understand why he likes 
little girls. Why should she be sur-
prized? He just hit the wrong girl. 
I thought that was good copy. 
Shark. (Caine.) (Twist of the Knife.) 
I had what I felt was a brainstorm: 
doing a story about four amoral char-
acters. One is a scientist: no morals. One 
is the girl he's laying: no morals. One is 
the young hero: no morals. One is the 
cop: no morals. I thought it would be 
interesting to show not only a double-
cross on a double-cross, but when we 
think we know who the heavy is, we 
find out that the real heavy behind it is 
the girl. She's the lowest. She does have 
a chance to get out of it alive, if she 
levels with the lead. But she doesn't. 
She is responsible for her own death. 
He lets her die. In other words, I tried 
something different there. They're in 
love and all that stuff, and I have the 
hero not only allow her to die, but he 
shrugs it off. I thought that was ex-
citing. 
I like the idea of a love affair where 
the man finds out the girl has used him. 
I gave her a great line of dialogue. In 
the last line of the picture (now I find 
out t.h~t the producers put it in ahead, 
and 1t s no longer the last line), she says 
to him, "You're a bastard, and I'm a 
bitch." That's the whole flavor I wanted. 
I shot some great stuff. For instance, 
when the boat is sinking at the end he 
takes a lighted cigarette and throw~ it 
into the sea. I just stay on that cigarette. 
A fish sees it (the fish being a symbol 
of the ~hark), thinks it's something, and 
grabs 1t-pashht! That's the end of the 
picture. Now I think they've cut it out. A 
lot of things like that were cut out. 
As you know, I asked them to take 
my name off the damn thing, because 
I didn't like the cut I saw. I thought it 
was terrible. I told them I wanted to 
restore my origin4111, or I'd try to get my 
name taken off it. They said they didn't 
know if they could get the film from 
Mexico. They couldn't locate it. It was 
such a confused state of affairs. Finally, 
I told them, "Don't bother me about it 
anymore." It may be the world's worst 
picture, or it may turn out to be a sur-
prise to me. I don't know. I do know I 
had fun with the characters, because I 
went beyond the 411verage switch of 
revealing the villain. I also didn't have a 
guy just letting a girl go off to jail; he 
lets her be eaten up by sharks. I've 
never seen anything like that in a pic-
ture before. Have you? That's my end-
ing. That's what I shot. 
The only reason I first called the 
picture Caine is that we went to a res-
taurant in Mexico where the service was 
bad. I got sore, and while I was getting 
sore, I felt like Cain, so I said, "Well, 
we'll call it Cain." That's all. Hell. I felt 
like hell. Then the producer saw a lay-
out in Life magazine some pictures of a 
guy being killed by a shark or some-
thing like that, and it said, "Shark." So 
they changed the titlel 
Well, that's the checkered career of 
an ex-copyboy. That's "-30--"


**The Big Red One**
**Author: Samuel Fuller**

The Big Red One 
Future. Fuller's most cherished project. A 
treatment of the progress of the First Infantry 
Division in World War II. To be realized as 
both a film and a novel. 
My big love is The Big Red One. I think 
I've been working on it since the Second 
Battle of Bull Run. That's how long it 
seems. I want to shoot in seven coun-
tries. Seven countries, seven women, 
five men: that's the wf,ole story. It's a 
three-hour show. I don't think that's ask-
ing too much, because it starts out in 
Africa 411nd ends up in Czechoslovakia. 
It shows the beginning of a war. This is 
where my story begins: Who fires the 
first shot? How does a war actually 
physically start? War may be decla;ed, 
but, somebody has to kill somebody be-
fore it can begin. I go to the very last 
d411y of the war. This one man does not 
know the war is over. What happens to 
him is the really important thing in the 
story, because the verb "kill" becomes 
"murder." :;::

The following films by Samuel Fuller will 
be shown by the Yale Film Society 
Wednesday, Apri/23-I Shot Jesse James 
Saturday, Aprii26-Park Row 
Thursday, Aprii 24-R un of the Arrow 
and F orty Guns 
Saturday, M ay 3-Pickup on South Street 
and China Gate 



**Teaching black studies at Yale**
**Author: Austin Clarke**
**Page number(s): 11-12**

Teaching black studies at Yale 
by Austin Clarke 
This is not the first time that I find myself 
teaching-perhaps I should have said, 
trying to teach-white and black students. 
It is, however, the first time I am constantly 
aware that there are white and black stu-
dents in my classes. Obviously, this 
awareness does not come of any great 
erudition on my part. Rather it spririgs 
from a greater awareness which begins out 
there on the streets, in the city streets of 
the ghetto and in the various avenues of 
mind and attitudes. This, after all, is 
America. 

Even though one can, like me, ignore 
with a certain amount of success the 
difference in colour, if that colour is predi-
cated upon some intellectual advantage-
in spite of this, I say that there are mo-
ments when I wonder whether I am not 
more of an image (in the meanest, most 
reprehensible sense of that term) both for 
my white students and my black students. I 
use the personal possessive adjective not 
without great care. I am, after all, much 
more free of prejudices that have to do 
with race than they can possibly ever be. 
And when my awareness of this position in 
which I am held by my students becomes 
clouded by the proximity of the street 
mentality to the classroom mentality, 
then I become extremely depressed and 
wonder whether in the heat of the various 
white and black nationalisms and hatreds, 
the entire idea of education in this country, 
and in this university in particular, is not 
in need of a radical overhauling. 

I do not intend to perform this function. 
I have faced myself and have concluded 
that to be a sane writer, a black man with 
a strong conviction of the beauty and truth 
in creative work, is sufficiently hazardous 
and sometimes, in my personal topsy-turvy 
life, sufficiently revolutionary also. 

I dislike greatly the attempt on the part 
of some of my students to tear me limb 
from limb and to presume that they can 
remake me to suit their various radical, 
their various reactionary specifications. It 
is equally obscene of them to imagine 
that apart from basicaJly different views 
of black literature, their approach to intel-
lectual analysis of their views can effec-
tively be couched in the afterbirth of their 
radical hangups. 

Now, I am not making a judgement 
upon the validity of the various brands of 
nationalism one faces here at Yale. I am 
merely stating that education in itself 
cannot be circumscribed by racial pref-
erences and racial resentments: education 
after all is not a prerogative of whiteness 
-or even of blackness-although it is 
understood that one group has laid some 
sort of foundation which is not today 
totally binding, as far as either its applica-
tion or its applicability. 

In the classroom I have found two basic 
reactions to the course which I gave last 
semester in black literature. Ironically 
and, for some, startlingly, these reactions 
were shared by the black students as well 
as the white students. The first reaction was 
an almost non-serious approach to the 
studies. Black literature after all, as far as 
so-called established critical judgements 
go, is the bastard discipline, if most regard 
it as a discipline at all. Students were 
reflecting this traditional attitude; and the 
irony lay in the acceptance by some black 
students of this attitude. This was done in 
spite of the revolutionary consciousness 
Austin C. Clarke, lecturer on black litera-
ture in the 20th century, is a visiting 
professor in the American studies and 
English departments at Yale. 
which some display in the whole area of 
college education. 

The second reaction was, apart from 
the sceptical approach, a seriousness ex-
pressed for the studies by both black and 
white st_udents, with such a refreshing 
warmth that it shattered certain miscon-
ceptions and crystallized others. 

I think that the security and what is 
called the "relevancy" of the courses on 
the university curriculum has a greater sig-
nificance than the cutting of the classes. 
For it means that real freedom is being 
experienced. Why should a black student 
have to attend a lecture merely because 
it is in black literature? And if the answer 
to this question proves difficult--or 
even if it seems nonsensical to pose the 
question, perhaps I should add that the 
"relevancy" of the course lies not so much 
in its being attended by the black students 
as in its availability in an academic com-
munity which most black students-if not 
in fact all-regard with a profound fore-
boding. 

In some cases, Yale presents a distinctly 
hostile environment to these black stu-
dents. Apart from their participation in 
such courses, by their attendance, their 
feeling seems to be one of achievement that 
the institution has been made "relevant" 
by its rather belated recognition of a 
precious slice of an experience, which on 
the one hand is accepted as having con-
tributed to the total experience of the 
country and which on the other is not 
recognized as worthy of study. Sometimes 
I get the feeling that to "elevate" black 
studies to a discipline in the same way as 
Slavonic Studies is regarded here as a 
legitimate academic discipline-whatever 
that term, "discipline·· means-is tanta-
mount to elevating the people whom that 
experience is concerned with: and this 
is taken to be racially unacceptable. 

For how can you regard seriously such 
things as black studies and black history 
-that is to say, the history of the black 
people in this country, if their history can 
be separated from the history of the 
country-how in the name of hell can you 
regard black studies in this way and con-
tinue to regard black people in a less 
serious way? It can't happen. So then it 
ought to pe clear that black studies pro-
grams on the white university curriculum 
are an obvious step toward the radicaliza-
tion of the university itself, and, in turn, of 
society. 

This brings us to what might be termed 
the heart in the problem of approaches to 
black studies: the intention of such a 
course. Is the intention merely to present 
the black experience to the rest of the 
society, in a vindictive, blind fashion of 
racial retribution? Is it to present this black 
experience only to the black section of the 
society, that section not being concerned 
that whites are present during this kind 
of instruction? Or is to present this black 
experience in the hope that it clarifies 
certain racial misconceptions held by both 
black and white people? 

One could ask another question: is the 
intention to present this body of black 
"facts'' so that it inculcates into the black 
listeners an intellectual-cultural drug and 
imbues them with a blacker black con-
sciousness of themselves-which con-
sciousness, in the framework of a decidedly 
racist society might perhaps make them 
more revolutionary (or make them com-
mit suicide), in the sense in which Eldridge 
Cleaver and other black intellectuals, like 
Leroi Jones and Ron Karenga, understand 
that term? 

I feel that the intention of the white uni-
versity is contained in its approach to these 
black studies. In some cases, the univer-
sity would only agree to accommodate 
black students' demand for black studies 
if it was felt that refusal might bring out 
some disruption of the university itself. 
The disruption could be real: burning 
down buildings and holding university offi-
cers captive; or academic: cutting classes 
and refusing to write examinations. 

The black studies programme at Yale 
University-which I know best--can be 
said to be functioning to the general satis-
faction of everyone involved. Ironically, it 
came without physical disruption: it essen-
tially was so "intelligently sanguine" that 
Yale has the reputation of being the first 
American university to have black studies 
(the administration caJls it Afro-American 
studies) as a university major. There are 
some doubts, of course-mainly about the 
black literature course given at Yale. The 
underlying political nature of the motiva-
tion for black studies does nothing to aJiay 
suspicions. But the criticism from students 
-black and white-that I have heard 
centers entirely on the question of inade-
quate teaching staff. It is not an ideological 
criticism. 

There is, however, a feeling in some 
quarters that black American literature, 
like black American history, can best be 
taught by a black American. (Can Russian 
literature be taught best by Russians?) 
The definition of "best", if one could be 
forthcoming from these dissident students, 
would perhaps explain the shortcomings 
they saw in a professor who was black, let 
us say, from the Caribbean or from Africa, 
but who was not a black American.In 
that word, "best" lies the inteiJectual 
chauvanism of the American black stu-
dent, who sometimes feels that black 
studies courses could have relevance to 
himself only if they were held in closed, 
homogeneously black circumstances. 

There is also an indication that the con-
tent should be a lower-key "blowing of 
whitey's mind." I do not think that the 
e n



**Black Studies: A White University Perspective**
**Author:  Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
13 I The New Journal I March 9, 1969 
any group, its moral justification notwith-
standing, to presume to be able to exist 
· 
and operate outside of this political-cul-
tural and fanatical belief, is to bring down 
a self-righteousness, a racial vengeance 
upon those who presume to take a different 
direction. 

The teaching of black studies as it exists 
today is most often an intellectual black 
assault upon this white American point 
of view. The successful teaching of these 
studies, and the not so successful teaching 
of them, will prepare a predilection for 
black cultural separatism. The fact that 
white universities are teaching courses in 
black studies means one of two things: 
either these universities are certain that 
the kind of black students they have is not 
of the same militant and revolutionary 
genre as those blacks in established black 
political organizations; or that those stu-
dents are quite simply what Malcolm X 
called "house niggers." For the white 
university, being a special representative 
of the total white establishment, could not 
be unaware that they are possibly training 
the radical elements to bring about their 
destruction. 

Thus white universities will cease to 
contain and to entertain any black student 
wish or demand or threat the moment the 
satisfaction of those demands is sus-
pected to contain the destruction of the 
universities. White universities were not 
founded, after all, for the benefit of black 
Americans, so much as they are establish-
ment for the perpetuation of white cultural 
consciousness-whatever that conscious-
ness may be in terms of particular political 
and social environments. 

Ironically, and lamentably, black stud-
ies is not taught with the same intensity, 
nor with the same direction, in predomi-
nantly black universities. Apparently, one 
does not have to be made constantly aware 
of one's cultural contribution to the coun-
try if one is placed in a psychologically 
secure position-a majority position in a 
black university, which could be regarded 
as a psychological oasis in the midst of a 
desert. 

Apparently, blacks in this situation do 
not need to advertise themselves culturally 
and historically when there are no whites 
around to question or compromise that 
cultural and historical contribution. Ap-
parently, also, blacks are content to be 
ignorant about themselves among them-
selves ("We know where we art at!") and 
when there are no whites in their academic 
vicinity. 

The non-academic considerations which 
limit the approach and the effectiveness of 
the teaching of black studies in predomi-
nantly white universities will victimize 
white intellectuals who seek, "out of a 
clear conscience," to teach such studies 
after years of academic preparation. There 
are, conceivably, some well-intentioned 
white intellectuals who have a real interest 
in black studies in the same way that it 
can be said that there are white people who 
have a non-liberal, non-white-participa-
tory interest outside of political organiza-
tions, in the black man. 

This must be the case. Since this type of 
white man would confess that the fate of 
the country is bound up in the respective 
fates of the blacks and of the whites, no 
logic, be it derived from black nationalism, 
black consciousness, black manhood, can 
refuse to admit to the possibility of the 
sincerity and the valuable contribution that 
these types of white people can give-per-
haps it should be said, can offer. 

What then is going to happen to the 
white intellectual, himself a kind of radi-
cal because of his commitment to the 
essentiality of black studies, who feels 
strongly that he can contribute, academi-
cally? Is the black revolution in ideas going 
to throw him out with the bath water of 
disillusioned white liberalism? Is the hu-
manism that is a characteristic of the 
psyche of the black man going to be sacri-
ficed in order to adhere to the strictest 
principles of black intellectual chauvinists? 
To put the question quite simply, can the 
black revolution in ideas and practices 
afford to sacrifice this natural resource of 
exploitable white radicalism? :,:; 


**Shmo?**
**Author: Robert D. Schul zinger**
**Page number(s): 14**

14 1 The New Journal ! March 9, 1969 
Shmo? 
continued from page 2 
could be put together out of all these vir-
tuosi. Dancing lessons used to be almost 
as popular as musical instruction in the 
suburbs of the 1950s, so our chorus line 
will form itself. As for our actors, anyone 
who has undergone a departmental tea 
knows that graduate students surely can 
play a role. 

I grow lyrical whenever I muse about 
what will happen the first night the grad 
revue is produced. There is no limit to the 
disasters that might befall us and keep our 
tongues wagging for years. The avant-
garde set which someone will surely design 
might collapse. The band is likely to quit 
midway through the first act, claiming that 
their musical integrity is compromised by 
the hams on the stage. And there is no 
doubt that the unfortunate actors will fail 
to make old saws the writers provide them 
with sing like violins. 

If the grad revue will be such a botch, 
what purpose will it serve other than to 
give its crew an image of the kind of good 
time they think they had when they were 
ten? I submit that even a brief and frivo-
lous excursion into the "creative" arts will 
stop their g.Pb prattle about how easy it is 
to be both whimsical and serious at the 
same time. Who knows, it might give them 
some respect for the artist's work and an 
appreciation of their own worth as critics. 
It might even make them see that there is 
more bitter truth than bad poetry ih the 
lines by Aristotle I had to Jearn while a 
freshman: 
The middle class within the state fares best, 
/ween 
May I be neither low nor great, but e'en 
between. 
Robert D. Schul zinger. 


**Wretched excess**
**Author: Leo Ribuffo**

Mr. Ribuffo replies: 
Gee, Bob, I've always wanted to have one 
of these withering exchanges in a ritzy 
intellectual magazine, and now you've 
given me the chance. If this were the New 
Masses thirty years ago, I could denounce 
you as a Trotskyite revisionist traitor to 
the "nice" revolution in graduate school 
(with my own eyes I have seen books by 
Isaac Deutscher in your apartment) and 
be done with it; but these days, withering 
exchanges must take a more subdued 
form. Since you've opened with the whim-
sically erudite style of the New York Re-
view of Books, combining equal parts 
charm and in-group allusion, I'll reply in 
kind. 

To begin, I must admit a possible error 
in my essay. A local AI Capp scholar has 
informed me that the furry creature I 
had in mind was not the schmoo at all, but 
the "kick-me." I am trying to confirm this 
correction, but the only doctoral disserta-
tion on Capp (in American studies at 
Oregon) has not yet arrived from Uni-
versity Microfilms: A Xerox Company, 
Ann Arbor, Michigan, 48106. In the mean 
time, however, let me express willingness 
to assist you in preparing the libretto for 
your grad-school revue. Although we are 
not at Northwestern, a quick walking tour 
of L & B will provide enough buxom 
honeys to fill out the chorus line. I am 
aware of the Plymouth Rock project, and 
I am willing to contribute a score entitled, 
" I Can't Get No Sanctification." Jf, how-
ever, you decide to write the great chroni-
cle about the drop-out "who becomes in 
turn a dentist, lawyer and novelist while 
living in a forest and destroying his mind 
by blowing the oboe," I cannot be of much 
help. Alas, my stylistic roots barely reach 
to Nathanael West. But you, Bob, the 
grand connoisseur of Thomas Mann, can 
produce a grad school epic. Could not 
H GS be the Magic Mountain? 

OK, so much for whimsy; now for some 
seriousness. Perhaps my article sounded 
too self-righteous, and you have put me 
in my place for my smugness. Neverthe-
less, I still believe that my description of 
the atmosphere in graduate school is es-
sentially valid. I never said that "most of 
these poor wretches" could "blossom" into 
anything. I don't really know. Rather, I 
argued that most graduate students don't 
consider doing anything other than their 
current "scholarship"; nor do they reflect 
on why they are doing that. The excep-
tions often go off to be novelists or forest 
rangers (you know and respect the two 
men I have in mind), and some of us wal-
low in survival guilt when they leave. 

This past week, 1 sampled responses to 
my article, and I have found evidence fully 
to confirm my arguments. For every per-
son who appreciated the attempted wit, 
whether or not he agreed with me, there 
was at least one other who complained 
that 1 wasn't adequately serious, that my 
tone wasn't scholarly enough, that I didn't 
offer "positive programs" for reform. I 
have always known that there are folks 
who read "The Wasteland" and mutter 
that Eliot should have written a statistical 
study of suicides in London, but I didn't 
expect that kind of mentality to be so 
widespread--even in grad school. Shall 
I make up an annotated reading list of 
Swift and Veblen to show that serious 
points can be made-sometimes must be 
made-by satire and ridicule? Or shall I 
polish my seminar-paper prose, drop 
allusions to Mannheim and David Ries-
man, and point to the Ph.D.s in 1910 who 
"improved" Emily Dickinson's poetry by 
making it rhyme; the Ph.D.s of 1920 who 
lavished praises on Howells and never 
read M oby Dick; the Ph.D.s of 1933 who 
explained that one must not tamper with 
the business cycle? This comment, un-
fortunately, is not the place to offer his-
torical evidence of the too frequent 
narrowness and overconfidence of aca-
demic men, characteristics which survive 
well into our generation. 1 can only suggest 
that we note with Emerson-who was 
barred for twenty years from Harvard-
that there is an important difference be-
tween "Man Thinking" and "the parrot of 
other men's thinking," and that we should 
try to be the former. 
LeoRibuffo 


**Balcony**
**Author: Paul Bennett**

Balcony 
The Yale Dramat's tear-it-yourself poster 
made their recent production of Genet's 
The Balcony probably their best-publicized 
production in years. It is sad that the origi-
nality of the poster was not matched by the 
originality and effectiveness of the per-
formance, any more than their ambitious-
ness in choosing The Balcony was matched 
by their ability to do justice to the imagi-
nation of the playwright. Genet's script 
has as many flaws as it has openings into 
the depths of human nature, and the 
Dramat production clearly came from a 
director and a company who were as hesi-
tant to acknowledge the shortcomings as 
they were to plunge into the possibilities. 
Perhaps "shortcomings" is the wrong 
word, because everything in the play is 
very long in coming. This, first of all, the 
Dramat did not face up to. Judicious cut-
ting and considerably more attention to the 
pace of the first scenes might have over-
come in part Genet's wordiness. 

But if Genet wrote a wordy play, he also 
wrote a rich one, and the Dramat company 
continuaJly failed to convey the deep 
humanness inherent in the perverted fan-
tasies of the Grand Balcony brothel. 

Genet's characters are caricatures of 
human nature, but they are valid carica-
tures, reflecting much that we don't like 
to admit about ourselves. This production 
treated them as ludicrous without convey-
ing the closeness of their fantasies to what 
all of us dream about. The morbidity of 
the "visitors' "fantasies was emphasized 
instead of their delight, and the result was 
an image uniformly dark and heavy where 
it should have had many sparks of light. 
(The Yale Daily News's somewhat fawn-
ing review claimed that the humor "came 
through with great comic effect," but I 
don't recall a single solid laugh from the 
near-capacity house that sat through the 
show with me.) If there had been some 
delight in the activities of the brothels, 
some evidence that the fantasies were not 
chores but pleasures, there would have 
been much more compelling force to 
Genet's perverted images of human nature. 

Time helps to erase the impression of 
monotony from my mind and in this per-
spective it is easier to see what the produc-
tion might have been. Above all, there was 
a fine sense of style in the visual aspect of 
the production. The set was complex and 
interesting, though its extreme clumsiness 
disqualifies it from being, in the words of 
the News review, "a theatrical marvel." 
No set that monopolizes so much of the 
running time can be called marvelous or 
theatrical. 

Just as the set was well-conceived but 
ineffectual in operation, the acting style of · 
the show had considerable potential but 
did not tit the needs of the company. The 
problem was most acute for the most 
stylized characters, the male-<:ast Madame 
Irma and Carmen. Limited by the masks 
they wore, they had to rise into a different 
level of stylization from the rest of the 
play, and though Dean Pickford as Car-
men managed to come through with a 
remarkably subtle and convincing per-
formance, Jeff Pressman in the central and 
difficult role of Madame Irma all too often 
lost contact with the other characters and 
turned conversation into soliloquy. This 
was the fate of the first-a.ct scene between 
Irma and Carmen, a scene well designed 
and directed in all the externals but Jacking 
the essential interaction between char-
acters. 

Though Charles Maryan's direction of 
The Balcony showed a skill in the manipu-
lation of style that might have produced a 
striking production with more experienced 
actors, he has failed once more, as he did 
in The H ostage, to fill the particular re-
quirements for the director of the Yale 
Dramat. However much the Yale Dramat 
may have accomplished, it is an amateur 
group, and its actors need a director who 
can lead them on to performances far 
beyond what they could do on their own. 
Their needs are special, and almost three 
hours of The Balcony were ample proof 
that it is no kindness to pretend Mr. 
Maryan fills those needs. 
Paul Bennett


Classifieds 
20¢ per word 
Ads may be mailed to: Classifieds, The New 
Journal, 3432 Yale Station, New Haven, 
Connecticut, 06520. 
Raccoons do not hibernate. If there is a 
raccoon hibernating in your basement, 
chances are he is dead. 
Rudolf Lowenthal gives the lowdown on 
the copyright question in China. No holds 
barred. Yenching Journal of Social Stud-
ies, August, 1941. 
Gary Trudeau is a genius. While his "Bull 
Tales" are the only possible reason to read 
the Yalie Daily, Trudeau is so smart he has 
put "Bull Tales" out in book form, and 
saved us that trouble. 
SAVE THE 360 
Tibor Scitovsky, Jacob J. Finkelstein and 
David Apter: welcome. 
So you think you're liberated, huh? A real 
radical, right? Wrong. We think you're a 
bigot. The New Journal, Volume two, 
number nine. 
You sympathize with peace marches, un-
derstand the black sit-ins, and hope 
Eldridge makes it out OK. You even fancy 
yourself a radical at times, right? Wrong. 
We think you are a bigot. The New 
Journal, Volume two, number nine. 
1


Introducing the 
CB 
from MG 
The new 6-cylinder MGC 
• 2912 cc. 
• 
Dual Carbs 
e 145 bhp at 5250 rpm 
o-60 in un-der 10 seconds 
see Scott Armstrong '69 at 
The Nelke Motor Co. 
1635 Dixwell Ave. Hamden 288-6412 
Greater New Haven's oldest imported car dealer.


The Model Twenty-one 
FM radio Fron1 illllill ~~ ~:li1:1~.!J~·t1!1 
price $89.95 
david dean smith · 
corner of Elm and York


Yale Law School Film Society 
March 10 Ashes and Diamonds 1958 
directed by Andrzej Wajda 
Apple Blossom Time in Poland 1951 
March 24 Murder, She Said 1961 
directed by George Pollock 
with Margaret Rutherford 
also The Pharmacist 1933 
with W. C. Fields 
March 31 Maratj Sade 1967 
(Branch of the New York Arthur)


DOUBLE DRINKS & HOT SNACKS 
Mon.-Fri. 5-8 P.M. 
74c 
FAB GROUPS NIGHTLY 
$2.50-$5.50 
Complete. Dinner Specials Daily 
3 Choices at $2.50 
THE PUB ROOM From 6 P.M . 
No Cover or Minimum 
SUNDAY 4-10 PM 
216 Crown Street 
New Haven 
Tel. 865-1145


~IK&!rsBT~ 
~5 WHMI.'WBVtr.J£ 
HfWfl.WU•CafWw 
New Haven • s only hip clothing store 
Romeo and Juliet 
coming •.• 
The Charge of the Light oo.ronlaftA 
Les Biches 
"a deviate Dolce Vita." 
Ti



**Title:  (No Title Provided)**
**Author: (No Author Provided)**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:

--- Page 16 ---
