Publication date: APR 2017
Volume: 49
Issue number: 5

**MASTHEAD:**
- editors-in-chief: Eliza Fawcett, Natalie Yang
- managing editor: Victorio Cabrera
- executive editor: Rubly Bilger
- senior editors: Elena Saavedra Buckley, Jacob Sweet, Oriana Tang, Victor Wang
- associate editors: Antonia Ayres-Brown, Chris Hays, Mark Rosenberg, Annie Rosenthal, Robert Scaramuccia, Arya Sundaram
- copy editors: Philippe Chlenski, Lillian Moore-Eissenberg, Meghana Mysore, Marina Tinone, Amy Xu
- design editors: Stephanie Barker, Julia Hedges, Catherine Peng
- photo editor: Elinor Hills
- web developer: Philippe Chlenski


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- CONSENT IN THE SPOTLIGHT - Sarah Holder
- DE RE METALLICA - Spencer Bokat-Lindell
- EYES ON THE PIES - Charlie Bardey
- CRAFTING A PUBLIC SQUARE - Chris Hays
- THE BASEMENT CURATOR - Felicia Chang
- FLIGHT PATHS - Skyler Inman
- EXPECTING AN EDUCATION - Vivan Wang
- ROOTING DOWN - Rachel Kaufman
- SNOW ON THE AIRPLANE WINDOW - Rachel Kaufman
- THE SCIENCE OF GETTING PAID - Marc Shkurovich


**Title: CONSENT IN THE SPOTLIGHT**
**Author: Sarah Holder**
**Page number(s): 3, 21**
The Yale School of Drama navigates 
the performance of sexual assault


**Title: DE RE METALLICA**
**Author: Spencer Bokat-Lindell**
**Page number(s): 21**
A Connecticut Blacksmith in 
King Arthur’s Court


**Title: EYES ON THE PIES**
**Author: Charlie Bardey**
**Page number(s): 4**
points of departure


**Title: CRAFTING A PUBLIC SQUARE**
**Author: Chris Hays**


**Title: THE BASEMENT CURATOR**
**Author: Felicia Chang**


**Title: FLIGHT PATHS**
**Author: Skyler Inman**
**Page number(s): 12**
profile
Home is where the pigeons are


**Title: EXPECTING AN EDUCATION**
**Author: Vivan Wang**
**Page number(s): 17**
snapshot
A school closing changes the landscape of teen pregnancy in New Haven


**Title: ROOTING DOWN**
**Author: Rachel Kaufman**
**Page number(s): 28**
poems


**Title: SNOW ON THE AIRPLANE WINDOW**


**Title: THE SCIENCE OF GETTING PAID**
**Author: Marc Shkurovich**
**Page number(s): 37**
endnote



**Title: EYES ON THE PIES**
**Author: Charlie Bardey**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
This past December, Mubarakah Ibrahim had a craving. 
It was sudden, as cravings tend to be, but this one nagged 
at her for months: she desperately wanted a bean pie. But 
there was a problem: bean pies—a black Muslim specialty 
made from navy beans, the favorite food of Nation of Islam 
leader Elijah Muhammad—are not available in New 
Haven. Ibrahim, a Black, Orthodox Sunni business owner 
in the city, lived two hours away from New York City and 
the nearest bean pies. She was tempted to make the trek, 
but knew there had to be a better way. “I can bake,” Ibra-
him thought to herself. “I can figure this out.” 

Ibrahim got to work. Nine different recipes and count-
less family taste-tests led to a product and a custom label: 
a cartoon version of herself, wearing a pastel pink hijab 
and a magenta apron, smiling and holding a bean pie in 
each hand, with the business’ name, “MmmPies,” hang-
ing overhead. Leveraging a wide network of personal con-
nections (including a few state representatives) accrued 
from almost two decades of living and working in New 
Haven, she quickly obtained all the necessary food vend-
ing licenses.

This is how it tends to go with Ibrahim. Within weeks, 
whims become sustainable business ventures. MmmPies 
is just the latest notch in Ibrahim’s professional belt, one 
that has made her something of a New Haven celebrity. 
She is at once a serial entrepreneur, a community leader, 
a fitness expert who opened Balance Fitness, New Haven’s 
first all women’s fitness studio, a radio show host, a motiva-
tional speaker, a business consultant, an Oprah alum (her 
appearance helped her gain an audience of 276,000 on 
social media), and a mother of four. 

MmmPies, however, represents a departure for Ibra-
him. In some ways, her baking business seems at 
odds with her previous career as a fitness expert, but 
she views MmmPies, like her fitness practice, as part 
of a larger project to help Muslim women and make 
Muslim identities more visible in the New Haven 
community. But with MmmPies, she is trying a new 
tactic. Instead of relying on her charismatic pres-
ence to connect with her customers in person, she is 
making her pies and releasing them into the world, 
where they will land on the tables of people she may 
never meet.
–

In the back room of Katalina’s, a local bakery on 
Whitney Avenue, I watch as Ibrahim pours Tupper-
ware after Tupperware of slippery navy beans into 
a massive silver mixing bowl. She rents the mid-
sized commercial kitchen every Tuesday to bake 
for MmmPies. The kitchen is modest—a central 
metal table, baking equipment cluttered on a sin-
gle shelf—and her operation is as simple as her rec-
ipe: boxes of frozen pie crusts, containers of beans, 
a crate of eggs, sugar. She is wearing a royal blue, 
floral-patterned hijab with a matching long-sleeved 
shirt, and she only stops chatting when she senses 
that the blender is drowning out her laugh.

Ibrahim grew up in a large family, the fifth of six 
children in a Black Muslim household in Senoia, 
a small town in Georgia. She tells people that her 
birth happened like a country song. “I was born in 
a house that my parents built by hand, at sunset, by 
the lights of a car,” she tells me, anticipating my 
incredulity with her laughter. “Cause it was getting 
dark, and they didn’t have electricity, so somebody 
literally drove their car to the window and shined 
the headlights in the room so my mother could give 
birth to me.”

As Ibrahim pours the beige batter into the empty 
crusts, she narrates her past number by number. Her 
pregnancy weight gain? Eighty-three pounds. Her 
post-pregnancy weight loss? Down from 198 pounds 
in February to 120 pounds by June 27. The date she 
opened Balance Fitness? March 14, 2007. The night 
a producer from Oprah called to have her on the 
show? Thursday, September 13, 2007. The length 
of the segment? Ten minutes, twenty-nine seconds. 
Complementing Ibrahim’s entrepreneurial tenacity 
is a keen awareness of her own brand, including all 
its specific details.

When she gained a substantial amount of weight 
during her first pregnancy due to complications from 
a separated pelvic bone, she was determined to avoid 
the history of diabetes that runs in her family. After 
constructing an intense personal fitness regimen for 
herself, Ibrahim caught the attention of women in 
her mosque for whom exercise had never felt accessi-
ble. She explained to me that a lot of Muslim women 
don’t exercise, “especially Muslim women who are 
more devout.” Within a year, at the age of twenty, 
Ibrahim had clients. Ten years later in 2007, she trans-
formed that informal project into Balance Fitness. By 
the end of that year, she had appeared on Oprah to 
talk about how an Orthodox Sunni woman could be a 
personal trainer. As we spoke in the kitchen, she used 
a line I later realized came directly from her appear-
ance on the show: “No matter where you choose to 
worship,” she said, “every woman wants to know how 
you get rid of cellulite.”

Ten years after that appearance, Ibrahim still sees 
clients, but she has since sold her fitness studio, pour-
ing her energy into MmmPies. Whatever her current 
focus, though, she’s still known around New Haven 
for her entrepreneurial reflex. “I look at her and I 
think, ‘I’m capable, why don’t I do that,’” Celeste 
Valencia, one of Ibrahim’s personal training clients, 
told me. “I don’t know what it is, the entrepreneur 
gene. She’ll come upon challenges and say ‘today I 
learned this, and I didn’t know that before!’”

Back in the Katalina’s kitchen, I help Ibrahim 
unwrap around a hundred frozen pie crusts. (They 
are made locally, since making them herself would be 
financially and logistically impossible.) She fills each 
with batter. The pies are destined for coffee shops 
and supermarkets around Connecticut and Massa-
chusetts—Edge of the Woods, Willoughby’s, Kevin’s 
Seafood—as well as for shipment across the country. 
In recent weeks, Ibrahim has shipped pies as far as 
California and Texas. 

MmmPies is a small company, but there’s already 
evidence that others share Ibrahim’s craving. A 
review on MmmPies’s Facebook page from Yasmeen 
Abdur-Rahman reads: “These bean pies remind me 
of The Nation of Islam and my father! I plan to order 
again, really soon!” But while Ibrahim wants to make 
bean pies accessible to Black Muslims who, like 
her, remember them from their childhoods, she also 
hopes to elevate bean pies to a place in the American 
culinary cultural pantheon. “I want the bean pie to 
have a place at the table next to the pumpkin pie and 
the sweet potato pie,” she says. And she wants to be 
the one to do it. 
– Charlie Bardey is a senior 
in Silliman College.


**Title:  P O I N T  O F  D E PA R T U R E**
**Author: Eliza Fawcett & Natalie Yang**
**Page number(s): 4**

Dear readers:
Earlier this month, nearly one hundred of The New 
Journal’s editors and writers, both past and present, 
gathered at the Yale Club of New York City to celebrate 
the magazine’s fiftieth anniversary. We reminisced 
about our history, spoke about the challenges facing 
journalism today, and discussed how to sustain our 
project for years to come.

We also had the opportunity to remember Edward 
Bennett III ’84, who passed away earlier this year. As 
Andy Court ’83 recounted in his remarks, as a freshman 
Bennett served as the publisher of The New Journal. 
But just before the start of his sophomore year, he 
injured his spinal cord in an accident that would leave 
him in a wheelchair for the rest of his life. After a year 
of rehabilitation, he returned to Yale and spearheaded 
the revival of The New Journal, which had ceased 
publication during his absence. He became the first 
quadriplegic to graduate from Yale, and it is because 
of Bennett’s resilience, tenacity, and love of The New 
Journal that this magazine continues to thrive. To honor 
him and all the work he has done for the magazine, his 
name will appear in perpetuity on our masthead.

We have so many people to thank for our anni-
versary celebration: Dan Yergin ’68, Howard New-
man ’69, and David Slifka ’01 for their generous 
financial support; Andy Court ‘83 and Anson Beard 
’58 for coordinating the Edward Bennett III Memo-
rial Fund, which will be used to support future New 
Journal investigative reporting projects; our board 
of directors, who have been ever generous with 
their time and support; and finally, Elena Saave-
dra-Buckley, Isabelle Taft, and Spencer Bokat-Lin-
dell, for dreaming up the reunion and turning it into 
a reality.

This anniversary has given us opportunity to con-
sider how much can change in half a century and 
yet how much can stay the same. Today, we are as 
committed as ever to doing meaningful journalism 
about Yale and New Haven. As we welcome a new 
editorial staff with this issue, we’re looking forward 
to the next fifty years of The New Journal.

Sincerely,
Eliza Fawcett & Natalie Yang
Editors-in-Chief



**Title: CRAFTING A PUBLIC SQUARE**
**Author: Chris Hays**
**Page number(s): 6**

In an alleyway off Chapel Street, across from the New 
Haven Green, a massive red shape seems to float in mid-
air. From most angles, it looks like a collection of disjointed 
forms painted at random across the walls of the side street 
and a distant, spiraling parking garage. But from one privi-
leged perspective, at the entrance of the alley, the abstract 
streaks coalesce into a single form: a square poised on a ver-
tex, with four circles cut away from its interior.

The shape isn’t just a random apparition, but rather the 
culmination of years of planning. In 2004, after putting 
together a successful light show on the Green, a group of 
friends and art enthusiasts formed Site Projects, a non-profit 
arts organization, to encourage and fund public art across 
New Haven. Square with Four Circles, which the organiza-
tion commissioned in 2010, has become one of their most 
recognizable pieces: a quirky, amusing surprise for those who 
stumble across it. For the Site Projects team, also their work 
also advances a far more profound mission: bridging dispa-
rate New Haven communities through the shared experience 
of urban art. But can public installations, whether made out 
of paint or light, really deliver on that vision?

Every two weeks, Site Projects’s six-person, part-time staff 
meets in an ivy-covered repurposed iron foundry on Whitney 
Avenue to discuss their new projects. With its collaborative 
workspaces and open plan, their office has the atmosphere of 
a tech startup. A rolling whiteboard features a jumble of bud-
geting figures and buzzwords like “community engagement” 
and “outreach.” Books with snappy graphics and vague titles 
like Rainbows line the shelves. In keeping with their entre-
preneurial workspace, the team’s vision—art as a unifying 
force of society—matches the grandiosity of a startup’s mis-
sion statement.

“That’s my story. Getting people together,” says Laura 
Clarke, Site Projects’ founder and executive director.

Clarke explains that she is motivated by the way public art 
can transform physical spaces, making them more engaging 
or welcoming to passersby. More accessible and place-spe-
cific than artwork in museums or galleries, public art has the 
potential to engage with a broader audience and influence 
the lived experience of an environment.

Felice Varini, the artist behind Square with Four Circles, 
believes public art can augment a viewer’s perception of a 
physical space and the meanings ascribed to it. Flat geomet-
ric forms superimposed on a three-dimensional space can 
startle and captivate people who might not otherwise stop 
to notice the space. For Square with Four Circles, Varini 
says, “I wanted to create a rapport between the high walls 
on either side and the parking garage canvas at the center of 
the frame.” The abstract red fragments on the walls tie the 
surfaces of the alleyway together, creating a gathering place 
and cultural landmark where previously there existed only a 
drab passageway.

Site Projects has commissioned murals, light shows, and 
a multitude of other installations, from a laser rainbow pro-
jected from the top of East Rock to abstract sea creatures 
made out of balloons for the Peabody Museum of Natural 
History. The group’s permanent installations are almost all 
concentrated downtown, although there are also two murals 
in Westville. Occasionally, the organization hosts events like 
“The Science of Perceiving Color” and “Activism in Art” 
which bring New Haven artists and residents together for 
evening discussions about the aesthetics of public space.

“I think it’s particularly important for democratic societies 
to have these conversations across communities,” William 
Barnett, the president of Site Projects, said, referring to the 
city’s racially and socioeconomically segregated neighbor-
hoods. “The content of the conversation is in some ways less 
important than the fact that the conversation exists.” 
Site Projects’ goal of fostering cross-community conversa-
tions can seem vague, and staff members acknowledge that 




**Title: THE NEW JOURNAL**
**Author: Chris Hays**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 7
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
cute its vision. Even as the organization attempts to bridge 
New Haven’s stratified communities, its own membership is 
mostly white and affluent—unlike most of the people who 
engage with its pieces on the street.  Many of the Site Proj-
ects board members don’t live in the communities where the 
group’s public art is being installed, or even in New Haven at 
all. “We would love to get people on our board that are more 
representative of the ethnic makeup of New Haven,” Clarke 
said. “But we are much more worried about getting people 
who are excited about New Haven art.”


And even if Site Projects’ pieces do help make New Haven 
a thriving cultural destination, the group’s success is inextri-
cably tied to gentrification––Professor de Bretteville readily 
acknowledged that the city only gave Site Projects permission 
to complete the Route 34 installation after a developer made 
plans to build a large-scale luxury housing complex in the 
area. 


But as he continues to investigate the lost Oak Street 
neighborhood, Greenberg is optimistic that art can help New 
Haven return to the lively pedestrian city that it once was. 
“Everything that got knocked down is getting built back,” he 
said. “The rainforest is growing back again.”


their success can be difficult to measure. But for some, even 
small moments are enough to affirm the organization’s aims. 
Bennett remembered hearing two strangers debate the role 
of art in activism on the bus ride home after a Site Projects 
event they had both attended. Clarke recalled seeing groups 
of teenagers converge on the huge lightshow they produced 
on the Green. “Kids on bikes would come through, eight, 
ten, twelve at a time,” she said. “They would stop and say, 
‘What is this?’ and we would say, ‘This is art.’ They would say, 
‘What is it for?’ and we would say ‘To look at.’”


With its next installation, Site Projects hopes to combat 
New Haven’s neighborhood divisions by transforming the 
pedestrian walkway under the Route 34 overpass near Union 
Station. The site is a lingering reminder of New Haven’s 
1950s-era urban renewal programs, which cleared so-called 
“slum” areas in the name of modernization and highway 
expansion. The construction of Route 34 razed the thriving 
immigrant communities of the Oak Street neighborhood 
and displaced the area’s predominantly Italian, Jewish, and 
African-American inhabitants. Those residents moved to 
new neighborhoods that became increasingly segregated by 
race. Today, the underpass is strewn with litter, the concrete 
stained with runoff water.


Robert Greenberg, a New Haven historian and preserva-
tionist, knows the detrimental effects of urban renewal first-
hand. His grandfather, a Russian immigrant, lost his business 
properties in the demolition of Oak Street. “Not only did they 
knock down buildings, they knocked out the entire commu-
nity,” he said. “Urban renewal created a huge scar on the 
city.”


Site Projects wants to make the busy pedestrian walk-
way—which connects the train station and the Church Street 
South housing projects to the downtown area—more wel-
coming and navigable. The new installation, Lighting Your 
Way, will be an interactive light sculpture along the segment 
of the walkway under the industrial overpass. Site Projects 
plans to widen the sidewalk and install six spotlights that will 
create pools of light on the concrete. Motion-activated LEDs 
along a low wall will light up sequentially as pedestrians walk 
by, and notecard-sized art pieces about the history of the site, 
created by local high school students, will hang on the wall.


Slated for completion in March 2018, Lighting Your Way 
is the brainchild of Sheila de Bretteville ART ’64, a public 
artist, Yale School of Art professor, and self-described “citi-
zen-pedestrian.” She first imagined the project after many 
walks under the Route 34 underpass, reflecting on the space’s 
unfriendly atmosphere and the fraught political history. 
Professor de Bretteville submitted her proposal to the city, 
and Site Projects approached her, offering to help fund and 
plan the projects. “People shouldn’t have to walk through 
neglected areas,” Professor de Bretteville said. “It shows that 
the city doesn’t care.”


Of course, it’s not always simple for Site Projects to exe-
– Chris Hays is a freshman 
in Hopper College.


**Title: THE BASEMENT CURATOR**
**Author: Felicia Chang**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

 8
THE BASEMENT CURATOR
P O I N T  O F  D E PA R T U R E
A step into Yale’s underground art scene
Felicia Chang
Benji Fleischacker, a senior at Yale, draws his bow 
across the cello’s strings and begins to play the opening 
note of Bach’s Cello Suite No. 1 in G Major. Under dim, 
red-tinted light, a crowd of students gathers around him. 
Some watch him with their mouths agape, but junior 
Brian Orozco stands with his eyes closed and head bowed, 
as if in prayer. Fleischacker stops mid-song and softly taps 
Orozco with his bow: he needs Orozco to turn to the next 
page of sheet music. It takes Orozco a few seconds to real-
ize, open his eyes, and fumble to the right section.


The crowd is gathered at “The Holy Holy Chapel,” 
a week-long art show curated by Orozco featuring the 
works of fifteen Yale undergraduates. The “Chapel” is the 
basement of Orozco’s house on Edgewood Avenue. An 
intertwining network of air ducts wrapped in silver insu-
lation hangs from the low ceiling. The walls are white-
washed, jagged bricks showing through in spots where 
paint has flaked off. Every available space is covered with 
artwork: a mix of silkscreened curtains, photos, paintings, 
and sculptures.


While planning his show, Orozco was aware of the 
“barriers to entry” inherent to an off-campus exhibition. 
However, having the art show in his building, he said, 
gave him the freedom to do whatever he wanted with the 
space and curate the show from scratch. But he knew that 
the idea of visiting a stranger’s dingy basement off-cam-
pus could dissuade some people from showing up. “I 
don’t trust Yalies to come more than two blocks,” Oroz-
co’s roommate, Ryan Mera Evans, joked a few days before 
the opening.


Yet around seven on a Friday night in late March, the 
Chapel begins to fill with people. Orozco, dressed in a 
lilac button-down draped over a black shirt, waits by the 
stairs and greets each newcomer enthusiastically. Most 
visitors gather into small groups that squeeze together for 
lack of space, chatting and sipping on Franzia or fruit 
punch from plastic cups as the sound of the cello floats 
in the background. Some slowly weave through the room, 
spending a brief moment in front of each piece of art-
work. Others linger at just one piece, staring intently.

illustration stephanie barker


 9
Although Orozco came to Yale with the intention of 
majoring in Art, he felt that the academic demands of 
college drew him away from making genuine work and 
exploring issues of race and heritage. “I find myself in 
art classes doing assignments just for the sake of doing 
them, just for the sake of getting a grade,” he said. “I can’t 
spend four years doing that.” The limitations of the aca-
demic environment precipitated his decision to switch 
out of the major. His show—liberated from Yale spaces—
reflects his new sense of freedom.


Orozco spent the afternoon before the show arrang-
ing and rearranging the artwork, searching for a certain 
“visceral reaction” that would come only from a precise 
presentation of the pieces. He began by creating trian-
gular bowling pin–like formations of small plaster apples 
in opposite corners of the basement, as requested by the 
artist, junior Annie Jones. He used the only two photo-
graphs in the show as central works, arranging the other 
pieces around them. One, by junior Michelle Kemei, is a 
side profile of a black man’s face, his pink flower earring 
in vivid focus. The other, by senior Anna Wane, captures 
a foot dangling over the side of a bed. “I knew for a fact 
that I wanted a lot of the energy to revolve around [the 
photographs],” Orozco said. “I moved the image to one 
place and everything else followed like Tetris.” 


After hanging up every piece, Orozco realized that all 
the artwork “to some extent explicitly dealt with race and 
bodies of people of color.” The two photographs both fea-
ture black bodies. A large painting depicts a black woman 
in repose, lips parted, surrounded by a sea of color as a 
metallic hand reaches towards her. Other pieces address 
issues of race and identity in more indirect ways. For 
Orozco, even the performance of Suite No. 1 in G served 
as a meditation on “what white music looks like and what 
kind of European tradition has been ingrained in my 
upbringing.”


Though none of his own pieces were in the show, the 
show’s racial focus reflects Orozco’s own recent artistic 
path. His latest works have largely involved an explora-
tion of his Mexican heritage: last semester, he created a 
photo-book that explored both his and his parents’ iden-
tity through scenes captured on his first visit to Mexico 
during spring break last year. “Through self- discovery 
and courses I took at Yale, I realized that I should look 
back to my own history and identity,” he said.


While Orozco sees race as the predominant theme of 
the show, senior He Li, whose paintings were on display, 
views the “The Holy Holy Chapel” in a more spiritual 
way. One of his paintings depicts two men walking along 
the sidewalk against a backdrop of clouds illuminated 
by bright moonlight. “Not only can [art] function as the 
same way as religion, but it can also lead people to spirit, 
to God,” he said. “The beauty of creation, the beauty of 
the world can lead us to what is out of the world, what is 
beyond the material.” 


“The Holy Holy Chapel” offered its viewers a spiritual 
enclave and an opportunity to confront issues of race and 
identity. But Orozco said he had a more modest aim, 
too: in one, transient moment, to bring people together 
through art.


As Fleischacker finishes playing, the crowd claps 
and cheers. The audience, once silently focused on the 
music, disbands and reverts to chatter. Orozco ducks 
under a curtain in a corner of the basement. Suddenly, 
the opening notes of Bach’s Cello Suite No. 1 in G Major 
fill the basement again, reverberating through speakers. 
The piece plays for the entire night.

**Title: Home is where the pigeons are**
**Author: Skyler Inman**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Most mornings, Jayson Peña wakes up early and loads 
the back of his Chevy Suburban with pigeons.
Using his bare hands, he pulls the birds out of a 
white-shingled loft in the backyard of his home in Avon, 
Connecticut. He grabs each grey body around its mid-
section, his thick brown fingers wrapping easily around 
the bird’s stomach and tail, holding its feet in place. The 
air around the coop is warm and acrid with guano—pi-
geon droppings—but the musk isn’t quite so bad in the 
morning. The birds get settled in their boxes, fleshy pink 
feet poking in and out, feather tips flaring upwards as they 
adjust their wings, getting caught momentarily between 
the bars. Dozens of pairs of red eyes blink up at Peña as he 
closes the crate door. One on top of the other, the boxes 
go into the trunk.

Peña backs down the driveway and drives through his 
neighborhood before merging onto Highway 4. Today, he 
pulls off of the road at the Bed Bath & Beyond in Farm-
ington, though he could just as easily stop at the cemetery 
off of Huckleberry Hill Road, or the grassy patch along 
the wide curve of Highway 177, or in the parking lot of 
a strip mall.

With his car engine stopped, Peña pops the trunk. He 
loosens the metal clasps of the bottom crate first, letting 
the leather flap door fall open, and for a moment, there is 
no movement at all. 
And then comes a rustle, a thrash, and a communal 
unfurling: a battery of wings, bodies, and twig-thin legs 
bursts forth. When that crate is empty, Peña loosens the 
ties on the second, and the process repeats. 
A flock of mottled grey creatures takes to the sky, circles 
the lot, and is gone.

Peña is in no rush. Today is a training day for the young 
birds, and since they’re only flying ten miles—a fraction 
of the length of their next race—there’s no way he can 
beat them back home. These are thoroughbred racing 
pigeons, after all: on a clear day, they can clock in an av-
erage speed of around 90 miles per hour.

Peña is a member of the Connecticut Classic Pigeon 
Racing Club, a loose confederation of middle-aged men 
living in Avon, Hartford, New Haven, and other small 
Connecticut hamlets. They share a love of birds and a 
passion for breeding them. Each man’s goal is to create, 
after many generations of pigeons, a bloodline whose 
birds are faster and stronger and smarter than the birds 
that came before them. They want to create champions.

But only so much can be predicted by a bird’s geneal-
ogy. Weather patterns, predatory hawks, power lines, fa-tigue, confusion, and other factors all alter a bird’s ability 
to return home. And, all else equal, much of a bird’s suc-
cess relies on its training.

Pigeon races, unlike 
similar competitions for 
grounded species, have 
no set path. Birds from 
multiple lofts across a 
region are brought to 
one starting point, usu-
ally a hundred or more 
miles from the pigeons’ 
homes, and released. 
From there, each bird 
charts his own way back.


Ornithologists estimate there are about 400 million 
pigeons worldwide, of which more than 60 million—or 
about 15 percent—are domesticated racing pigeons. 
And rearing these 60 million are somewhere around 1.2 
million breeders (or, as Peña and his cohort prefer to be 
called, “pigeon fanciers”). Once they are released, the pi-
geons’ keeper simply waits for their return. The rest is up 
to the birds. 

Birds have fascinated Peña since his childhood. He 
grew up in the rural Quezon province of the Philippines 
during a period of martial law that began in 1972. His 
town was overrun with semi-domesticated free-range 
chickens. “Shake a can, and two or three hundred would 
come running out of the bushes expecting food from 
you,” Peña says. At night, the chickens roosted in the trees 
to avoid ground predators. The guttural, clucking mur-
mur in the dark Quezon night became the white noise 
of Peña’s childhood. When he was seven, he asked his 
family for birds of his own. Their neighbors had a loft of 
pigeons, he mentioned to his father. Couldn’t they get 
some, too? Peña’s parents spoke with the neighbors, who 
were more than happy to share two brooding pigeons 
from their overpopulated coop.

But four years later, Peña’s family moved to an apart-
ment in the crowded capital city of Manila—no more 
chicken trees, no more Quezon fields, and no more room 
for a pigeon loft.

Shortly after high school, he moved again to Guam for 
the island’s “party lifestyle,” where he saw the newspaper 
advertisement that would reroute his life entirely: Athena 
Healthcare, a Farmington, Connecticut-based elder care 
company, was looking for applicants to fill positions as 
Certified Nursing Assistants. 

“Why not?” Peña remembers thinking to himself as he 
held the Sunday paper. He had never been to the main-
land. Within a week, Peña told his friends he was leav-
ing the island. No one believed him, but the next morn-
ing—carrying only his backpack, which held one change 
of clothes and his passport—Peña boarded a Greyhound 
bus that took him, along with dozens of other Filipino 
and Guamanian passengers, to the Antonio B. Won Pat 
International Airport in Guam.

“But what is it that makes a racing pigeon such an ob-
ject of interest to such vast sections of the population in so 
many parts of the world?” ponders Anthony F. Sciabarassi 
in the January 2015 issue of Pigeon Racing Digest. “It is 
my sincere belief that the answer lies very largely in the 
character of the bird itself. First and foremost is the bird’s 
own love of home.”

Kenneth Kuester, a materials assistant with Yale Uni-
versity’s Ecology department and a pigeon fancier him-
self, tells me that this homeward drive is one of the most 
baffling aspects of the pigeon. He’s been racing birds out 
of his home in East Haven since the 1970s, and says that 
even after almost fifty years of breeding, raising, and train-
ing them, he hasn’t figured out what it is that makes them 
so intent on getting home. Their desire to get back to their 
roost is so strong, Kuester says, that the birds will literally 
lose limbs, break bones, and still return to the coop.

“Each year, I lose about 25 percent of my young birds, 
mostly to Cooper’s hawks and power lines,” he says. 
“Sometimes they’ll return and you can see that their keel,” 
he motions towards his sternum, “right here, is just split 
in half from hitting a utility wire.” In those cases, Kuester 
says, the bird usually dies not long after his return. But un-
less the power line kills him on impact, or unless the hawk 
snatches him in mid-air, the bird will usually keep going, 
full-speed, until, exhausted, he finds his home.

Peña attests to this seemingly supernatural drive towards 
home, recalling that some of his pigeons have returned to 
the coop more than two years after leaving for a race (he 
identifies each bird using an ID band on their leg). Each 
time this happens, he is surprised: “You still remember 
me after two years not in my coop?” Usually, pigeon fan-
ciers assume that the birds’ homeward pull comes from a 
sort of imprinting process—like a baby duck who assumes 
the first animal he sees is his mother. But Peña said that 
in one case, a bird he purchased as an adult found its way 
to the loft after an entire year away. Sometimes, even late 
in life, the birds choose a new home.

Peña didn’t intend to stay in Connecticut. When he 
arrived in 2000, Athena Healthcare moved him, along 
with the other new immigrants in his program, into an 
eight-bedroom home in Torrington. Peña’s English was 
poor, which made the job and the transition challenging, 
but for the first six months of his stay in America, Athena 
provided rent, a transport van, and $300 per week in wag-
es. After the six months were up, Peña was told to find a 
place of his own.

Despite the abrupt eviction from the home, and the 
difficulty of saving up enough money to acquire a car and 
an apartment on only $300 a week, Peña felt exhilarated 
by the opportunities he saw in Connecticut. He applied 
for his green card to stay.

Not long after arriving, Peña met Kristina Guanzon, a 
nurse from the Philippines who had arrived in the Unit-
ed States a few years before, and who had made her way 
to Connecticut via Chicago. Like Peña, she had a round 
face, olive skin, black hair, and an easy smile. They fell 
in love.

“I traveled halfway around the world to meet you,” he 
remembers telling her.

In 2004, they returned to Peña’s home in the Philip-
pines, on the island of Zebu, so that Peña could ask her 
parents for her hand in marriage. As is customary in Fil-
ipino tradition, they were married near her childhood 
home. At the ceremony, Kristina and Peña released two 
white pigeons. 

A week later, they returned to Connecticut, and Peña 
decided to buy his first pigeon in North America. “I think 
I found it on Craigslist,” Peña recalls. He drove to Massa-
chusetts to pick up the bird and quickly began forging a 
network of fellow racers, first on Craigslist and eventually 
on Facebook. Since then, Peña’s friendships with other 
pigeon fanciers have developed to the point that he calls 
them a second family. “Quality friends. It’s hard to find 
those friends,” he says. “They’ll take their shirt off their 
back for you.”

Despite finding a support system in the racing commu-
nity, Peña claims that his hobby did not ease his process of 
moving to the United States. “It was actually hard in the 
beginning,” he says. He needed to find a home of his own 
in Connecticut, and he sought a town that would permit 
residents to keep pigeon coops.

Fortunately, Peña’s wife, Guanzon, has always been 
supportive of his passion for pigeons, given the positive


**Title: FLIGHT PATHS**
**Page number(s): 10-12**

THEN COMES A RUSTLE, 
A THRASH, AND A 
COMMUNAL UNFURLING: A 
BATTERY OF WINGS, BODIES 
AND TWIG-THIN LEGS 
BURST FORTH.

“YOU ALWAYS HOPE THEY’RE IN 
GOOD HANDS, THAT SOMEONE’S 
TAKING CARE OF THEM. THAT 
THEY’RE NOT DEAD. BUT THAT’S 
THE LAW OF THE LAND. IT’S 
THEIR FREEDOM.”



**The Influence of Pigeon Racing**
**Author: Skyler Inman**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 13
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
influence that pigeon racing has on his lifestyle. Instead 
of frequenting bars or causing trouble, as Peña claims he 
otherwise might, he devotes nearly all of his spare time 
outside the home to pigeons. “She knows where to find 
me,” Peña says of his wife, pausing to laugh as he reflects 
upon his time management. “I’ll be in my pigeon coop or 
I’ll be at my buddy’s where he’s got his pigeons.”
On race days, Peña waits outside of the loft in his back-
yard, throwing darts. Somewhere off in upstate New York, 
or rural Ohio, or Massachusetts, or Vermont, or New 
Hampshire, or Pennsylvania, a truck full of pigeons—
some of them belonging to Peña—pulls into a wide, 
green clearing.
With a heaving sound, the sliding metal doors of the 
truck click up and up until the shelves of birds are ex-
posed. A switch is flipped, the doors slide open, and a bat-
tery of birds spills out. Bodies tumble one into the next, 
wings thwacking onto wings, until, with a lifting motion, 
the birds spiral upwards, survey the land, and disperse, 
each making his or her own way home.
“When you let them out of the coop, they’re free,” Peña 
says as he watches his older retired birds waddle around 
on the roof of his house. “They’re pretty much on their 
own. If you love the pigeons, you watch for them to re-
turn. If they don’t like you, they just won’t come back to 
your house.” It has started to rain a little bit. “You always 
hope they’re in good hands, that someone’s taking care of 
them. That they’re not dead. But that’s the law of the land. 
It’s their freedom.”
– Skyler Inman is a senior in 
Jonathan Edwards College.


**Expecting an Education**
**Author: Vivian Wang**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

 14
EXPECTING AN EDUCATION
A school closing shifts the resources available to New Haven’s teen mothers
Vivian Wang
For a long time, the Polly T. McCabe Center wasn’t some-
where you went because you wanted to. You went because 
you had no other choice. At least, not really: If you were a 
pregnant teenager in New Haven, you needed a place where 
you could learn to feed your baby and change diapers and 
escape from the smirks and stares of your classmates, and you 
were not going to find that at your normal middle or high 
school. So you went to Polly McCabe, an alternative school 
established in 1966 for pregnant students in the New Haven 
Public School system. For the duration of your pregnancy 
and through the academic quarter after you gave birth, you 
would attend traditional classes like math and biology, plus 
courses tailored to the needs of pregnant students, such as 
nutrition and group counseling. And, perhaps more impor-
tantly, you were provided a refuge from the stigma of teen 
parenthood.
Today, “choice” is a loaded word in the contexts of both 
schools and pregnancy. But when Polly McCabe opened, the 
word was a bridge between those two worlds: for pregnant 
girls, a choice to go to Polly McCabe was a choice to stay in 
school. Their other options were bleak. They could either 
drop out immediately, or they could stay in their traditional 
schools without any special care or resources. A Yale study 
conducted at Polly McCabe in 2000, at the height of the 
school’s activity, found an 80 percent high school comple-
tion rate for its students. Nationwide, the current number for 
pregnant teens hovers around 50 percent.
 In the nineteen-nineties and early two-thousands, Polly 
McCabe served more than one hundred students every year. 
Last year, it served no more than sixteen—on a good day. 
While sixteen students were officially on the school roster, 
only four to seven attended regularly, said Dr. Belinda Car-
S N A P S H O T
illustration julia hedges
All photos by Elinor Hills


 15
berry, who served as Polly McCabe’s principal for the last 
three years. Enrollment had been decreasing for decades, in 
line with plummeting teen pregnancy rates across the coun-
try: a 68 percent drop nationwide since 1991, 65 percent in 
Connecticut. Of the teens who did get pregnant, more and 
more were choosing to stay in the schools they had already 
been attending; New York City closed its four remaining “P” 
schools in 2007.
Last April, New Haven followed suit. The Board of Educa-
tion’s finance committee voted to stop providing services out 
of Polly McCabe’s Canner Street facility by the next academic 
year. Students now receive pregnancy support resources, 
under the McCabe name, from within mainstream schools. 
Although administrators emphasized that Polly McCabe was 
not closed, just reinvented, the fact remains that pregnant 
teens in New Haven now have fewer options when it comes 
to their education.
But given how few girls chose Polly McCabe in the last 
decade, how important, exactly, is that option anyway?
–
Administrators cited two main reasons for shuttering Polly 
McCabe: federal Title IX regulations and financial con-
straints. These justifications are closely intertwined. Title IX, 
passed six years after Polly McCabe’s founding, requires pub-
lic schools to provide equal resources to students regardless 
of sex. But it became increasingly difficult to provide com-
parable academic resources at Polly McCabe, said NHPS 
Director of Instruction Billy Johnson. There was “no way” 
the district, with its $4.6 million deficit, could afford to offer 
the same range of courses and electives at a school with four 
students as it could at one with hundreds, he said. 
By the end of last year, Polly McCabe no longer offered 
art, world languages, or science classes. And because grad-
uation requirements are consistent district-wide, many new 
mothers were missing the credits they needed when they 
returned to their original schools after giving birth, under-
mining Polly McCabe’s goal of helping pregnant students get 
their diplomas. 
New Haven’s high school landscape also may have con-
tributed to the decline in enrollment. In addition to its tradi-
tional high schools, New Haven is home to a variety of mag-
net schools with highly specialized curricula: Hill Regional 
Career focuses on medicine and entrepreneurship; Co-Op 
on the arts. Polly McCabe likely felt increasingly limiting, 
Johnson explained. “The reality [is]...when it has ten differ-
ent high schools to compete with, that’s a totally different ball 
game,” he said. 
And so the school was caught in a vicious cycle. The fewer 
choices that Polly McCabe offered, the fewer students it 
attracted; the fewer students who enrolled, the fewer choices 
the school could offer. In 2014, the most recent year for 
which the state has data, there were 137 teen births in New 
Haven. Less than 15 percent of those mothers enrolled at 
Polly McCabe. 
Arguably, those 15 percent had no need to: all the resources 
those students could have received at 400 Canner Street are 
now available in their traditional schools.
In a quiet corner of James Hillhouse High School on Sher-
man Avenue, Sharon Bradford sits in an office plastered with 
posters of young mothers cradling their babies. On her desk, 
she keeps a copy of the summer 2016 Southern Connecticut 
State University alumni magazine, which profiles a former 
Hillhouse student and teen mother who won a full Gates 
Millennium scholarship for college. Several decades ago, 
Bradford was also a teen mother in New Haven. In this room, 
secluded from the hallways where students weave around 
each other like cars on a busy freeway, she now heads the 
Support for Pregnant and Parenting Teens Program (SPPT), 
a statewide support program. 
SPPT, established in 2012, is funded by a combination 
of state and federal programs. It operates in five Connecti-
cut school districts, including New Haven; now that Polly 
McCabe no longer occupies a physical space, the services it 
used to offer have been folded into SPPT. Each year, Brad-
ford and her staff meet with sixty to seventy students across 
the district—mothers and fathers—several times a week, 
depending on the students’ needs. They track the teenagers’ 
school attendance, coach them through conflicts with their 
partners, or just share M&Ms.
Daphney St. Louis, a Hillhouse sophomore, said she never 
considered decamping for Polly McCabe when she became 
pregnant with her son, who is now three months old. 
“I had support here,” she explained one Monday morning 
as she sat in Bradford’s office. The SPPT program provided 
St. Louis with advice, a car seat, and a breast pump. She still 
visits the office almost every day to do her homework and 
chat. 
Since Polly McCabe’s founding in 1966, New Haven’s 
support services for teen mothers have grown. In the early 
1990s, a group of Yale Law School students opened the 
Elizabeth Celotto Child Care Center, which operates out 
of Wilbur Cross High School and provides free childcare to 
teen parents district-wide who stay in school. Director Robin 
Moore-Evans said the center provides many services similar 
to the SPPT program, including academic advising and par-
FOR PREGNANT GIRLS, A 
CHOICE TO GO TO POLLY 
MCCABE WAS A CHOICE TO 
STAY IN SCHOOL



**Title: The Closing of Polly McCabe**
**Author: Vivian Wang**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 16
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
enting classes.
The Celotto Center was the reason Maria, who asked to be 
identified by her first name only, also decided against Polly 
McCabe. Like St. Louis, Maria stayed at Hillhouse after 
becoming pregnant in 2014.
 “I didn’t want to get separated from high school at all. I 
got along with the teachers and staff at Hillhouse, and I didn’t 
really know anybody at Polly McCabe in order to make new 
relationships with them,” said Maria, who is now a sopho-
more in college. “I felt like everybody as a community came 
together, and they have options and different resources for the 
different types of people that attend school…Polly McCabe, 
it seemed like a good school, it just didn’t seem like the right 
decision for me.”
–
The numbers suggest that most pregnant teens in New 
Haven felt like Maria and St. Louis. But some still chose 
Polly McCabe. 
I was unable to get in touch—directly or through admin-
istrators—with the handful of students who were still at Polly 
McCabe when it closed. According to Bradford, several were 
too busy or did not want to draw attention to themselves. 
“I think that having a school dedicated to pregnant and 
parenting teens was better because the girls were more 
focused,” said Dorothy Mazon, the SPPT program’s regis-
tered nurse, who worked at Polly McCabe until it closed. “It 
was a like group of people. In a regular school there is still 
a lot of name-calling. There’s discrimination, harassment. 
Even some of the teachers don’t want to be ‘bothered’ with 
a pregnant individual. They act like they don’t know what to 
do.”
“I have known students to attend McCabe and testify that 
without McCabe, they could not have made it,” Carberry, the 
school’s principal, said.
Both St. Louis and Maria said they sometimes felt stigma-
tized by their peers at Hillhouse. St. Louis said classmates 
stared at her belly when it grew. Maria recalled hearing some 
snide comments. But both women said they did not allow the 
scrutiny to deter them.
 “I didn’t pay attention to them,” Maria said. “It was a mat-
ter of, I’m going to school to learn and not to listen to every-
body else and what they have to say.”
“IN A REGULAR SCHOOL THERE IS 
STILL A LOT OF NAME-CALLING. 
THERE’S DISCRIMINATION, 
HARASSMENT. EVEN SOME TEACHERS 
DON’T WANT TO BE ‘BOTHERED’ WITH 
A PREGNANT INDIVIDUAL.”


 17
pect of doing more with less. When asked if the district would 
continue providing parenting classes and counseling if the 
grant money were to stop, Johnson turned his palms skyward.
“That’s when I go like this,” he said, shrugging. “It wouldn’t 
be up to me. I really don’t know.”
St. Louis and Maria are testaments to the fact that pregnant 
students can flourish inside traditional schools. And Bradford 
and Mazon acknowledge that Polly McCabe’s closing has 
brought some unexpected benefits. School attendance, a fre-
quent problem at Polly McCabe, is now slightly up among 
pregnant students. 
“They’re around their friends, they have access to different 
activities that they didn’t have there,” Bradford explained.
“Polly was not the panacea,” Mazon said.
But pregnant students can succeed only with support, 
whether it comes from a standalone school or a support pro-
gram.
St. Louis said she can’t imagine what her pregnancy would 
have been like without resources like SPPT. Sitting in the 
program’s office, as she chatted with Bradford about her son’s 
upcoming baptism, she described the help the program had 
given her. 
“They helped me with the colic, and making sure he 
doesn’t sleep on his back,” she recalled. “A lot of things I did 
not know.”
There was a time when she didn’t think she would have 
that support. When she found out she was pregnant, she said, 
she had no intention of going to anyone at Hillhouse for help. 
“I was petrified,” she said. “I was like, I don’t know them. 
Why would I go there?” 
It was a friend who had been through the program who 
finally convinced her. St. Louis remembered thinking, 
“Maybe I should try it out.”
That was the choice that shaped the rest of her preg-
nancy. And of all the choices now potentially limited by Polly 
McCabe’s closing—the choice to stay in school, the choice 
of what kind of school to attend—that is the one that mat-
ters most, and perhaps the one that is most endangered: the 
choice to ask for help, knowing that it can be found.
The importance of Maria’s choice to pursue and prioritize 
her education, in spite of her pregnancy, is a point every-
body agrees on regardless of their views on Polly McCabe as a 
standalone school. But that choice, like the choice to attend 
Polly McCabe, is also under threat from funding shortages.
The shortfall is twofold: The school district did not gain 
any money from closing Polly McCabe’s educational ser-
vices, and the support services, now under the umbrella of 
the state-sponsored SPPT program, are losing funding too.
On the educational side, the district is technically saving 
over $100,000 a year from the closure, both on the costs of 
running the Polly McCabe building and on the expense of 
teacher salaries—the latter of which was already reduced 
because for the school’s last year, the district had hired only 
part-time retired teachers, Carberry said. But given the dis-
trict’s multimillion-dollar deficit, the money saved cannot be 
redirected to other resources. Money saved in a deficit, John-
son pointed out, “doesn’t really exist.”
On the support side, the grant money for SPPT, which 
has always come from the state rather than the district, is still 
active––for now. But another grant the program relied on, 
the Young Parents Program Grant, ended recently. Bradford’s 
staff has been reduced from six to four, and each member 
feels the strain.
“We just need more staff,” Bradford said. “We’re being 
asked to do more with less.”
And if the state or federal government decides to decrease 
educational funding or stop providing money for pregnant 
and parenting teens altogether, Bradford will face the pros-
– Vivian Wang is a senior in 
Timothy Dwight College.



**Title: DE RE METALLICA: A Connecticut Blacksmith in King Arthur’s Court**
**Author: Spencer Bokat-Lindell**
**Page number(s): 18**

 18
In April of 2015, Jamie Lundell won a ten thousand dollar 
check from the History Channel for forging a Roman gladi-
ator sword. The blade, which took him five days to fashion, 
was the length of a man’s arm and sharp enough to puncture 
bone, welded from 108 layers of steel all compressed within 
a fraction of an inch and patterned like clouds of petrified 
ink. Below the hammered bronze hilt adorned with buffalo 
horn caps, a blood-red inscription burned in the olivewood 
handle: AUDENTES FORTUNA IUVAT. Fortune favors the 
bold. 
Demand for ancient swords has flagged somewhat in recent 
millennia, but to the judges of Forged in Fire, the reality TV 
show tournament Lundell competed in that spring, this did 
not seem particularly relevant. In every episode, four black-
smiths from around the country were summoned to a studio 
in Brooklyn, where their mastery of ironwork was tested in 
tournament. By his third round, Lundell had already proven 
himself by transforming a two-inch ball bearing into an arced 
fighting knife whose superior construction outclassed the 
work of two other contestants. For the final round, he and his 
rival returned to their home forges to produce the most faith-
ful replica of an ancient sword they could muster. Both were 
pieces of art, but they had to cut, too. What mattered to the 
judges now was the sharpness of the edge and the construc-
tion of the handle, the temper of the steel and the trueness of 
the blade, all of which they tested on human-sized dummies 
with faux organs inside. When the credits rolled, Lundell 
walked away as the champion.
“It definitely helped me pay off my loans,” he tells me in 
earnest. More than a year has passed since the episode aired, 
and we are standing between two anvils in Dragon’s Breath 
Forge, the workshop in Wolcott, Connecticut, where Lundell 
wrought his winning blade. He has worked here for the past 
fourteen years. The building is the size and shape of a large 
greenhouse, but instead of shrubs the floor is crowded with 
vises and sledges and menacing power saws. It resembles the 
ideal filming location for an industrial-themed horror movie, 
the precise type of place where one would not want to find 
oneself lost in the middle of the night or held captive by a 
vengeful clown. 
Fortunately, however, it is eleven in the morning, and I 
am in the presence of a master. He is currently inspecting a 
brick-sized piece of metal, called a billet, which he tells me 
will form the blade of a new sword by week’s end. I ask him 
how the billet is constructed.
“Oh—these are just five sheets of ten-ninety-five and fif-
teen-twenty.”
I wait for him to elaborate, but after a moment of silence I 
strike myself as embarrassingly dull and offer a few vigorous 
head nods. He seems satisfied by this response.
   Lundell, who turned thirty-six this year, looks like a char-
acter from Game of Thrones but has the demeanor of one 
of its fans. He sports a haphazard boxed beard and a brown 
ponytail that hangs down the back of a flannel jacket. When 
he speaks, he sounds less like a blacksmith than a computer 
engineer from Minnesota: kind-voiced and unaffected, frugal 
with his words, and sort of confused as 
to why I don’t understand the particu-
lars of his profession. 
Dragon’s Breath Forge advertises 
itself as a producer of exotic weap-
onry: battle axes, Viking spears, Ara-
bian split-tipped swords—even Hobbit 
knives. The market for such items is 
F E AT U R E
illustration julia hedges



**Title: A Blacksmith's Tale**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 19
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
larger than one might think, but it isn’t particularly reliable. 

In 2005, the Forge became a subsidiary of Falling Hammer 
Productions, the decorative ironwork parent company that 
provides the better part of Lundell’s paycheck. The distinc-
tion, however, is largely nominal: in addition to Peter Swarz-
Burt, the Forge’s founder, Lundell is one of only four black-
smiths on staff, and every piece of steel they sell is born in 
the same flames. (Incidentally, three of the four, including 
Lundell, have all won episodes of Forged in Fire.) Lundell 
spends about two days each week working with the other 
smiths on projects commissioned by homeowners typically 
from Greenwich or Manhattan, whose tastes tend to fall short 
of his imagination: balcony railings, Gothic gates and light-
ing fixtures, the occasional praying mantis garden sculpture. 
Today, however, he is working for a different kind of client, 
and this client requires a sword. 


Those who conceive of the United States as a democratic 
republic might be surprised to learn that they also live under 
a system of monarchies. The twenty kingdoms of the Soci-
ety of Creative Anachronism are spread out across five con-
tinents; seventeen of them are located in the United States 
alone. (If you live anywhere along the East Coast from Mary-
land to Quebec, you are a denizen of the Eastern Kingdom, 
where Lundell is a Society member.) The SCA’s unofficial 
motto is “The Middle Ages as They Ought to Have Been”—
which is to say all the fun of archery, blacksmithing, and 
calligraphy without the unseemliness of chamber pots. The 
SCA hosts for its thirty thousand members what some might 
call Renaissance fairs, but to dismiss them as such would be 
to misrepresent the scope of the enterprise and the dedication 
of those involved. Each kingdom is districted into principal-
ities, which are further subdivided into baronies, shires, and 
cantons—all of which are presided over by a king and queen 
who fight to the metaphorical death for their stations.

Lundell got involved in the SCA eight years ago when one 
of his clients, Gelleys Jaffrey—moniker courtesy of the SCA, 
pronounced like “aisles” with a soft ‘g’—informed him of its 
existence. Since then, he’s battled (with wooden swords) in 
a number of combat competitions, but he’s never made it far 
enough in the semiannual Crown Tournament to break into 
the royal family. (He has spent time with the king and queen, 
however; I’m given to understand they are lovely people.) 
In about three weeks, Jaffrey will be knighted, and his 
wife has commissioned 
Lundell to make him a 
realistic Viking sword for 
the ceremony. Lundell 
forges a few weapons a month—orders tend to spike around 
the holidays—but each blade is unique. Before starting work 
on a piece, he draws a scaled diagram of the finished prod-
uct. This week, there’s a piece of graph paper hanging on the 
wall promising a blade with an aqueous pattern similar to 
that of the sword that won him first place in Forged in Fire. 
Instead of using something so prosaic as wood, though, he’ll 
construct the handle from a moose antler recovered from the 
plains of Montana. Depending on the amount of metal and 
labor, a custom weapon from Dragon’s Breath Forge might 
set you back anywhere from five hundred to five thousand 
dollars. This one quotes roughly at two thousand. 

The other smiths are drinking coffee in the office, and the 
only thing that appears to be breathing besides Lundell and 
me is the forge that sits in the middle of the room. As the 
heart of the operation, it stands on a metal table, a hollowed 


 20
barrel of concrete about the size of a human torso, inhaling 
a steady flow of propane from a five-foot tank and holding its 
breath at twenty-four hundred degrees Fahrenheit. Behind 
the shimmer of the forge loom two colossal power hammers, 
about seven and twelve feet respectively, apparatuses that 
resemble cartoonishly large sewing machines with the ability 
to draw out scalding blanks of metal. Lundell uses the larger 
of the two power hammers—a hand-me-down from a World 
War I shipyard—to create billets like the one he showed me, 
a metallic sandwich made from five layers of two different 
steels, twisted and cut and reworked several times to form the 
swirled pattern that will reveal itself in the blade.

While the billet is heating in the forge, Lundell drains 
his coffee and offers me a pair of earmuffs. It takes about 
twenty minutes for the steel to reach the ideal working tem-
perature, brightening from charcoal gray to a muted red to a 
glowing orange. At this point, the steel is not quite molten, 
but it’s hot enough to hammer into shape. His arms sheathed 
in elbow-high gloves, Lundell withdraws the billet from the 
forge and places it in the jaw of the seven-foot power ham-
mer. He presses the lever with his foot, and immediately the 
room fills with the deafening sound of metal crashing against 
metal, not bright or tonal like a bell but deep and penetrat-
ing like a jackhammer. As the force of the impact draws out 
the rapidly cooling metal, little cracks of gray oxide begin to 
crust around the billet’s edges. With every blow, the scales 
appear to dislodge not from the surface of the hot steel, but 
from within, flaking off the supple core in ashen crystals like 
snowpack under a ski boot. Sensing a change in the metal 
that I cannot detect, Lundell rushes it back into the fire: if it 
gets too cool, it could develop stress fractures under the ham-
mer, or even snap in two. He continues this cycle—heat and 
hammer, heat and hammer—for about thirty minutes, until 
the billet is more than two feet in length. As Lundell works, 
I mirror his movements, gracefully focusing my faculties on 
staying out of his way.

While the billet is still hot, Lundell uses a band saw to cut 
a “v” at the end of the sword-to-be, forming a serpent’s tongue 
in the metal that he pounds with a hammer to a point. He 
takes the steel to a belt sander to profile the edges; sparks 
shoot out on the concrete floor as the bar becomes a blade. 
Now that it has returned to its normal state of grey, the 
blade looks like little more than a blistered piece of sheet 
metal to me. Lundell walks by with it in hand, and I feel a 
rush of heat blow past my skin.


There are very few people these days who (to borrow a 
somewhat plastic-age phrase) have always known they wanted 
to become blacksmiths. For his part, Lundell didn’t even real-
ize his talent for metalwork until he 
was in college.
“I never thought I was going to 
be a swordsmith,” he says, “because 
I didn’t know that was a thing you 
could be.”


 21
But there had been signs, of course. At an early age, he 
became singularly enchanted with all things medieval. 
Throughout his childhood in Middletown, Connecticut, 
medieval-style Legos, Dungeons and Dragons, and fantasy 
novels held particular appeal for him. “My favorite G.I. Joes 
were always the ones with swords,” he remembers.

In high school, he and his friends started to dabble in 
live-action role-playing games (LARPing, for short), a kind 
of interactive re-imagining of sundry fictions. Inspired by 
the books he read, Lundell worked with his friends to create 
their own LARPing universe with full scripts and plotlines, 
which they acted out while sporting tunics and foam-padded 
weapons they made themselves. It made for exactly the sort of 
training that is necessary for success in the SCA.

After enrolling in Wheaton College, Lundell first planned 
to major in creative writing. Severely dyslexic, however, 
he soon discovered that he much preferred reading fantasy 
books to writing them. He knew from his high school ceramic 
classes that he enjoyed working with his hands, and during 
his sophomore summer he took a course in metalworking 
at the Museum School of Fine Arts. He’s been hooked ever 
since.

It’s the resilience of metal that he loves, he tells me, toss-
ing a piece of bronze in the air and letting it tumble on the 
concrete floor, unmarked. “It’s so much more durable than 
ceramic or glass.”

His first-ever blacksmithing piece was a set of silverware, 
but it wasn’t long before he branched out. When he grad-
uated in 2002, Lundell convinced Swarz-Burt to take him 
on as an apprentice at Dragon’s Breath Forge. Since then, 
he’s become the resident specialist in “historically probable” 
Viking weaponry. 

He’s also started to pursue more approachable projects, 
namely tap handles for a local brewery and a line of jewelry, 
all of which are ripe for featuring on his Instagram page. The 
piece of bronze I pick off the floor is a pendant Lundell cast 
in the shape of Mjölnir, the legendary hammer Thor uses to 
slay a world-eating serpent during the Norse equivalent of the 
apocalypse. It’s available for thirty dollars on the Forge’s Etsy 
page, under “Viking Bling.”


It’s been a couple of days since Lundell profiled Jaffrey’s 
knighting sword, and he’s ready to process it through the final 
heat treatments before he joins it to its handle. He places the 
tang—the svelte end opposite the sword’s tip that he’ll insert 
into the moose antler handle—under a power drill and bores 
two holes in it. Helices of steel spring out of the blade and lit-
ter the floor around the machine like locks of hair in a salon. 
He threads a piece of wire through the tang to make an eye 
hook before we step outside onto the asphalt lawn behind the 
Forge, where the other blacksmiths have been attending to a 
human-sized, propane-fueled silo with a central core of mol-
ten salt. (As it happens, molten salt does not look discernibly 
different from liquid water or simple syrup, though it tends to 
be about fourteen hundred degrees hotter.)

Lundell suspends the sword on a long metal rod and steps 
up onto a tree stump next to the silo. He gingerly lowers the 
sword into the outer chamber to preheat it. If there’s any 
moisture left on the blade when it touches the molten salt, 



**Title: The 100 Minutes War**
**Author: Spencer Bokat-Lindell**
**Page number(s): 22-24**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 22
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
it could splatter in his face like superheated frying oil. He 
begins to jig the sword in the salt, up and down like a length 
of fishing line, as the other blacksmiths look on from afar. 
Swarz-Burt hums Darth Vader’s Imperial March from Star 
Wars while they make ice-fishing puns for the next ten min-
utes. 
“Holy mackerel,” says one blacksmith.
“I don’t like the scale of that joke,” says another. 
When Lundell withdraws the blade from the silo, it shines 
a sun-bright orange. Unlike the blistering air inside the forge, 
the even, liquid heat of the salt doesn’t risk oxidizing the 
blade and relieves it of unwanted stress points. 
Lundell plunges the sword into a metal canister filled 
with room-temperature oil. Flames erupt out of the brim and 
lick the blade, and the shock of the heat exchange causes 
the walls of the canister to vibrate like a tuning fork. I can’t 
tell if the acrid fumes that have just filled the air are coming 
from the crusted salt or the scorched grease, but in any case 
the room smells profoundly of heavy industry. Burnt oil and 
blackened salt stream off the quenched blade in rivulets as 
Lundell blots it with a dirty towel. He looks down the length 
of the blade to ensure it hasn’t developed any warps.
“No woogity!” he says with relief. 
There’s a commonplace kitchen oven in 
the corner of the workshop set perpetually 
to 425 degrees. In a few hours, he’ll place 
the sword in the oven to begin the tem-
pering process, to soften the brittle blade. 
For now, he hangs it up to cool.


When I tell Lundell that I go to Yale, 
he immediately recalls the name of Sam-
uel Yellin. Yellin, Lundell tells me, did much 
of the ironwork for Yale’s residential colleges, 
including the gates below Harkness Tower. He 
was also arguably the country’s most famous 
blacksmith, at a time when the province of met-
alworking had retreated almost entirely to the 
artistic sphere. By the time he died in 1940, 
his ironwork could be found at four other Ivy 
League universities, the Grace Cathedral in 
San Francisco, and the Federal Reserve Bank in 
Manhattan. 

There was a time when some of Yellin’s con-
temporaries called him a genius, but the years 
when people called him anything were few. Those were the 
twilight decades after manufacturing revolutionized the econ-
omy, when the blacksmith still figured more prominently in 
public life. By the sixties, the role of both traditional and 
artisanal blacksmithing had all but vanished in the United 
States. At the time, the historian Alex W. Bealer predicted 
that the blacksmith would soon be an extinct species: “One 
can expect to see the general blacksmith disappear entirely 
before the end of the twentieth century. Probably he will pass 
unnoticed and unmourned by most.” One hundred and fifty 
years ago, there might have been thousands of blacksmiths 
like Lundell in Connecticut, all gainfully employed in local 
shops or factories. Twenty miles away from Dragon’s Breath 
Forge, the Hooker Carriage Company in New Haven, once 
one of the largest coach businesses in the country, used to 
retain 250 smiths on its payroll. It was liquidated shortly after 
World War I, wiped out by the automotive industry. 

I ask Lundell what he thinks about this prospect––if, like 
typewriter repairmen or taxi drivers, he feels personally vic-
timized by modernity. It seems to me, standing here between 
a two-hundred-pound anvil and this century-old power ham-
mer, that it doesn’t much matter what relics he’s able to revive 
from the past. Blacksmithing will never again be what it was.

But if Lundell is as bothered by this fact as I am, he 
shows few signs of having considered it. “It’s certainly not 
as common as it used to be, but I don’t think it’s in any dan-
ger of being lost,” he says. He notes that there is no shortage 
of hobbyists and professionals signing up for classes at the 
Forge, most of whom want to learn how to make swords. And 
besides, the advantage of working with metal is that it rarely 
ever disappears.

“One of the things that really drew me to blacksmithing is 
that I know the things I make are going to well outlast me. 
You go into these museums, and you look at these swords 
that are a thousand years old,” he says. “It’s like a little bit of 
permanence.” 

He knows, for example, that the sword he’s making now 
will be passed down for generations. After he polishes the 
surface to a mirror shine, Lundell will hand the weapon over 
for Jaffrey to keep. The knighting ceremony is coming up 
soon, during an annual SCA tournament called the 100 Min-
utes War.

“You should try to come—although I’d try to dress up if 
you can,” he says. “People tend to get pretty into it.”


November 19, 12:30 PM: The 100 Minutes War is in 
full swing, and things are not looking good. I’m standing at 
the periphery of a nondescript park in Sparta, New Jersey, 
between a Porta Potty and a man fashioning arrows out of 
foam padding and duct tape. I had been unable to salvage 
any of my childhood Lord of the Rings Halloween costumes 
from the recesses of my closet, and I’m starting to feel acutely 
out of place in my street clothes. Hardly more than thirty of 
the 100 Minutes have elapsed, and already one of the King’s 
subjects has been inauspiciously struck on the nape with a 
wooden cudgel, knocking him unconscious. The crowd of 
about 150 people, dressed in all manner of capes, helmets, 
and armor plates, clear the field to make way for an ambu-
lance and a couple of EMTs, who appear surprised to find 
that there’s a war going on. We exchange glances in self-con-
scious solidarity.

I have been trying for the past hour and a half to obtain the 
scheduling details of the knighting ceremony, with very little 
success. A number of people have offered to help me find 
whatever it is that I am looking for—the camera and denim 
are dead post-Enlightenment giveaways—but when I inquire 
about the accolade, they tell me that it’s a surprise and could 
I please refrain from mentioning it. 

Eventually I come upon a clearing at the far side of the 
park, where a small veiled tent has been erected on the grass. 
A man wearing a cerulean tunic and a beaded beard-tie 
informs me that Jaffrey is sitting inside the tent, waiting for 
the court to summon him. He knows by now that he’s being 
considered for knighthood—the announcement was made 
this morning—but he still has no idea about Lundell’s sword, 
which his wife ordered confidentially as a surprise adorn-
ment. The man I am talking to once commissioned Lundell, 
known as Ulfgar the Nice in these parts, to make a battle axe 
for him, so he knows what kind of creation Jaffrey is about to 
receive.

“He’s gonna shit kittens when he sees it,” the man says.

After the sun sets, the few dozen people remaining head 
to a small clubhouse by the side of the road, where a pair of 
fife players with unique senses of pitch announce the court’s 
assembly. At the front of the room, Queen Anna and King 
Brion Tarragon sit perched on their thrones, surrounded by 
a retinue of about twenty nobles. Also in attendance is King 
Edmund of the Middle Kingdom, on visit from the Mid-
realm, a region known elsewhere as the swing states. He sits 
beside the bespectacled Queen Anna, whom he gifted upon 
his arrival with a fifth of Patrón (it’s her favorite). 

After some thirty minutes of procedure, including a 
debriefing of the War casualties, the King and Queen begin 
the ceremonies. The man I talked to earlier has been pro-
moted to an earl; another is made a lord. In both cases, the 
Queen presents scrolls of cardstock embellished with callig-
raphy and gold seals, which before bestowing she displays 
to the audience in a prolonged flourish. Oohs. Ahs. At one 
point, a ringtone version of the mockingjay theme from The 
Hunger Games goes off from someone’s phone in the back 
of the room.

Finally, the court summons Jaffrey from the crowd. He 
kneels before the throne as King Brion produces a pair of 
spurs.

“These are a symbol of rank. But before I put these upon 
you that you may ride in the King’s name,” he says, “is there 
a member of the Order of the Laurels who would have words 
about this gentleman?”

A middle-aged woman standing near the door bounds into 
the aisle. 

“It is my great honor and pleasure to be that voice!” she 
declares. “I am Mistress Aneleda Falconbridge.” 

“Chivalry and art are not so dissimilar,” she says, continu-
ing at a ruminative pace. “For it, like art, must be practiced, 
in order to appear effortless, and in order for it to appear con-
stant. I have watched this man—my friend—practice the art 
of chivalry…and I recommend him to you for this reason.”

Four others come forward to speak for Jaffrey, including 
a duchess and a mistress from the Order of the Pelican. Sir 
Cedric of Armorica, of the Order of Chivalry, is last.

 “All I will say right now is something I’ve said to him many 
times over the years, and it still holds true,” he says. “Dude, 
you don’t suck.”  

Applause breaks out.

“Is there a belt?” asks the King. A subject presents him 
with a belt, which he bestows upon Jaffrey.

“Is there a sword?”

Lundell, standing obscured near the exit in a red poncho, 
steps forward. 

“There is, your honor!” 

The clubhouse erupts into a col-
lective gasp as Lundell offers the 
sword, sheathed in a brown leather 
scabbard. 

“With this sword,” the King says, 
“you carry the strength of our king-
dom. Carry this with honor, and 
use it in justice, and in our name.” 

Jaffrey places the sword by his side, 
and, after being presented with a 
chain, takes his oath.

“I pledge my allegiance, my advice when wanted, my 
sword…and my fealty,” he says, a tear in his eye. “This I swear 
to you, until I die, or this world is destroyed.” 

In a decidedly anticlimactic moment, the King forgoes 
Lundell’s sword—perhaps for fear of scoring Jaffrey’s shoul-
der—opting instead to pick up a prop with blunter edges. 

“And so it is,” King Brion says, “that we dub thee once, we 
dub thee twice, we dub thee knight.”

The room erupts once again in cheers. Jaffrey’s wife is 
blotting her eyes with a Kleenex. The court disbands, and I 
feel a tinge of vicarious indignation for Lundell: the audience 
never got to see his sword. I look for him somewhere in the 
crowd and spot him congratulating Jaffrey, a smile lining his 
face. He seems far from piqued. The sword he wrought will 
not be wielded, but, for now, it does exist. This is all that iron 
in earth can hope for. As the clubhouse clears out and people 
start heading to their cars, I log into Instagram and search for 
Lundell’s name. There are a number of photographs, dated 
from a few days ago, of the work he just relinquished.

Caption: #handmade, #viking, #blacksmith.
 The sword is poised on a worktable next to the original 
graph-paper design, where the whorls in the blade just catch 
the light. 

– Spencer Bokat-Lindell is 
a senior in Morse College.



**Title: ROOTING DOWN POEMS**
**Author: Rachel Kaufman**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
It sounds like a room of tiny bells,
the wind coming in
through a small, stained window
Butterfly shells pucker their lips
and recede
White birds bury orange beaks
in the folds of their chests
We are in a rounded world
sun setting into darkened line
between water and air
You are wearing rose
on your wrists, in your hair
And I
am staring as the clouds swallow
the sun whole
SNOW ON THE 
AIRPLANE WINDOW 
It rains, and all for you, 
Of course, when it falls
It lands in tea cups, blue rims,
Bottoms curved and tipping,
Water collecting in puddles,
And tea cups lifting,
Pushed along by thin
Streams, and it is, after all,
For you to see, to comment on,
To wink at, to sketch 
In a wooden notebook, 
And for me, to watch the pavement,
The ants, as I imagine them, 
Slowly wash away, to count 
How many drops it takes
To tip it all over, or, how many
To keep the bottom
Firmly rooted 
To the ground.
– Rachel Kaufman is a soph-
omore in Trumbull College.



**Title: CONSENT IN THE SPOTLIGHT**
**Author: Sarah Holder**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

Center stage at the Iseman Theater, a woman stands 
clutching two hands to her chest in front of seventy-five 
first-year students of the Yale School of Drama. “These are 
my breasts,” she says. “These are Evan’s breasts, and when I 
come to rehearsal, I don’t want you to touch them.” 
The students gape. It’s day three of their first week of grad-
uate school, and many of them have never heard a professor 
talk about her body so frankly. “Over the course of rehearsal, 
they become Blanche’s breasts,” she continues, referring to 
the female lead of A Streetcar Named Desire. “And if the 
play calls for another character to touch Blanche’s breasts, 
that’s fine. But the question is, how do we get there, from 
here?”
The woman onstage is Evan Yionoulis, a professor of act-
ing at the School of Drama. (She is also my mother, which 
makes the boob grab especially uncomfortable.) This after-
noon she isn’t teaching drama, but rather the kind of behav-
ior needed to decrease the rate of sexual harassment among 
her students. 
When last year’s Association of American Universities’ 
(AAU) Campus Climate Survey on Sexual Assault and Sex-
ual Misconduct was released, graduate school faculty and 
students were shocked at the high rates of sexual harassment: 
53.9 percent of female, 38.2 percent of male, and 78 percent 
of other gender graduate and professional students reported 
having experienced it in some form while at Yale. The School 
of Drama is not the only graduate school that ramped up its 
sexual assault prevention measures in the wake of the report. 
The School of Architecture and School of Public Health 
have also scrambled to respond to the AAU findings. And, 
as the accusations against Donald Trump during the 2016 
presidential campaign demonstrate, harassment is a prob-
lem that doesn’t end once confessed. The AAU survey was 
just a tangible, and troubling, set of statistics that quantified 
a cultural issue already on the minds of many.
The School of Drama is in a unique position, however, 
in that it is a place where students are asked to fully inhabit 
their characters and engage in physical, sensitive, and some-
times violent behavior. Students are trained in the art of fab-
ricating intimacy, learning to flirt and fight and fall in love 
so convincingly they might believe it themselves.
“It’s the only school where faculty are directing naked stu-
dents,” laughs Joan Channick, Associate Dean and Deputy 
Title IX Coordinator for the School of Drama. It’s the only 
school where “a professor might say, ‘You should really get 
in touch with your sexuality,’” adds Emily Reeder, a theater 
management student at the School of Drama and a mem-
ber of the Graduate & Professional Student Title IX board. 
It’s the only school where, in the classroom and on stage, 
students and faculty are talking about, depicting, and reen-
acting sex. The environment of the stage, coupled with an 
emphasis on artistic freedom, creates a space with the poten-
tial for abuse. 
In response to the AAU survey results and a growing 
consciousness of sexual violence, the School of Drama has 
made a few changes. Along with creating a new orientation 
for first-year students and updating a “Bystander Interven-
tion” workshop for all students, they released a constitution 
of sorts: “Protocols for Rehearsing Material With Sexual 
Content, Consensual Sexual Touching, and Depicting Sex-
ual Assault.”
These rules of conduct are meant to ensure that depic-
tions of sexual behavior and assault “will only be rehearsed 
or performed with the ongoing affirmative consent of all 
actors,” and provide safety guidelines for pre-production, 
rehearsal, and classroom scene work. Every student and fac-
ulty member has to read, sign, and return the document to 
the registrar at the start of each semester, and every visiting 
artist working at the Yale Repertory Theater must sign and 
send in the protocols with their contract. With this docu-
ment and its rollout, the School of Drama wants to encour-
age a shift in consent culture. They want to combat the high 
numbers from the AAU report. 
But opening up more conversations about sexual con-
sent has led the School of Drama to another issue—one 
that most, if not all, other departments never have to deal 
with. As Evan-not-Blanche’s breast clutching demonstrated, 
the line between actor and person is constantly shifting on 
stage. It’s in this middle ground that things can go wrong, 
but it’s also the space where artistry is cultivated. How, then, 
do you identify assault in the rehearsal room or on stage? 
And how do you make art, particularly art that’s supposed to 
be painful, safe?
–
Baize Buzan is pushed and falls face down in a pile of 
dirt. Below her, a wedding dress blooms. Behind her, a man 
lunges and paws at the chiffon. Before them, almost two 
hundred people watch as she is violently raped. Her knees 
are chewed up, her hands scratched. On good nights, she 
doesn’t bleed.
Buzan is an actress at the School of Drama, and the man 
lunging is her scene partner and fellow student, Galen Kane. 
They are performing in the play Women Beware Women, 
which opened in January 2016 at Yale Repertory Theater. 
Here, on stage, Buzan is safe, and the simulated rape is con-
sensual: she and her imagined assailant have practiced these 
moves hundreds of times with the help of a fight choreogra-



**Title: The Yale School of Drama and the AAU Report**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 28
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
pher and director. But the terror on her face looks and feels 
real.

Women Beware Women started rehearsing in September 
2015, on the same afternoon the School of Drama addressed 
the results of the AAU Survey. “The atmosphere in the room 
was tense,” says Leora Morris, the director. The cast grap-
pled with the thought of embarking on this produc-tion—
in which two actors are nude for an entire scene and one 
woman is raped—as they confronted the magnitude of Yale’s 
real sexual assault problem.

“The AAU report boggled the mind,” says Channick. As 
the Title IX Coordinator for the School of Drama, she fields 
complaints from victims of sexual misconduct who choose 
to use Yale resources to resolve them. Considering the 
infrequency of those visits, she says reading the report was 
“shocking”—she hadn’t realized the extent of the issues at 
the School of Drama.

Part of the reason the AAU results were alarming, accord-
ing to Dean of the School of Drama James Bundy, was the 
magnitude of the harassment statistics and the responses 
from students who didn’t report these incidents. “It was clear 
that there were perpetrators who did not know they were per-
petrators,” he says, “and victims who did not feel equipped to 
deal with the issues.”

The AAU report didn’t break down statistics by profes-
sional school. But when the results were published, the Title 
IX office was able to share the exact numbers with Chan-
nick, which she re-ported to the School of Drama. She and 
the University Title IX committee declined to share those 
numbers with me. “In terms of prevalence, the graduate 
and professional schools had similar results,” says Stepha-
nie Spangler, University Title IX Coordinator. The types of 
sexual har-assment reported for all the graduate and profes-
sional schools were primarily “insulting sexual remarks” and 
“inappropriate personal comments.” More than 80 percent 
of sexual harassment cases occurred between students. And 
while the graduate school rate of sexual assault was lower 
than the undergraduate rate, the data still caused alarm: 
according to the AAU report, 13.3 per-cent of women in 
Yale’s graduate schools had been sexually assaulted, 3.9 per-
cent of men, and 17.7 percent of students of other genders.

Students were shaken. Many pointed to the glaring lack 
of consent education as the reason these instances were slip-
ping through the cracks. “The first year I came in there was 
about 15 minutes of SHARE [Yale’s Sexual Harassment and 
Assault Response & Education Center] getting up onstage 
and saying, basically, here’s where you go when you get 
raped,” says Sarah Mantell, a third-year playwriting student 
at the School of Drama and a member of the Graduate & 
Profes-sional Student Title IX Advisory Board. “[It was] like 
getting raped was an inevitability that the school had noth-
ing to do with.” 

Her second year, she says, the orientation was expanded 
to almost an hour, and they threw in booklets on bystander 
intervention. But still, says Mantell, “it was pathetically lit-
tle.” So this summer, Channick worked with students and 
faculty alongside the head of the Office of Gender and 
Campus Culture, Melanie Boyd, and the Title IX office to 
develop a new set of workshops and draft the protocols. With 
these guidelines, they sought to preemptively address the 
problem.

“I don’t in my heart of hearts believe that most of what 
people are perceiving as harassment and assault is happen-
ing inside the classroom and inside the rehearsal hall,” said 
Dean Bundy. “But based on the magnitude of the num-
bers…” he trailed off. “We felt that it was possible for an 
im-provisational moment to become an assault unless peo-
ple know what the ground rules were.” 


In the final scenes of the 1972 film Last Tango in Paris, 
actress Maria Schneider is pinned down by her on-screen 
love interest, Marlon Brando, and raped with a stick of 
butter. Her whimpers echo as Brando thrusts. It’s a violent 
depiction of sex that critic Roger Ebert called “shockingly 
daring” and “sudden, brutal, and lonely.” In December 
2016, an interview with director Bernardo Bertolucci sur-
faced in which he admitted that he and Brando planned the 
scene the morning it was shot. Schneider, ambushed in front 
of the camera, had had no idea what was coming.

Bertolucci feels guilty now, but he doesn’t regret the deci-
sion. “I didn’t tell her because I wanted her reaction as a girl, 
not as an actress,” he explained in the interview on College 
Tour, an entertainment TV show. “I didn’t want Maria to act 
her humiliation, her rage. I wanted Maria to feel.” 

Directors like Bertolucci believe that in order to act truth-
fully, one must endure trauma. In this instance, the notion 
was taken to a dangerous extreme. None of the anecdotes I 
heard from Yale students involved the level of abuse Schnei-
der endured—no scenes of gruesome assault happened 
unexpectedly—but my conversations with female actors, 
especially, revealed an insidious discomfort with everyday 
interactions in the rehearsal room.

One woman who asked not to be identified by name 
described a man who would spend time before he entered 


---

**Title: The Ethics of Nudity and Violence in Yale's School of Drama**
**Author: Sarah Holder**
**Page number(s): 31-32**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 31
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
cast in [those] roles.” At the undergraduate level, similar 
informal mecha-nisms exist. Before auditioning for Wild 
Party, Doyle and Probst had to sign “nudity clauses” that said 
they were comfortable baring it all, should they get the parts.
Even when given the option to refuse a role, however, it’s 
hard for actors to turn down a good gig. The natural dynamic 
between actor and director (or student and professor) is def-
erence to authority. Directors direct, actors follow. “When 
you’re trying to get the role, you’re pressured to be down for 
anything,” says Doyle. “I think I could have just said no [to 
the nude scene] but felt like I owed it to the team to realize 
this vision.” The director of Wild Party did not respond to a 
request for comment. “I tried to make sure the actors were 
being asked if they were comfortable,” says Morris regarding 
Women Beware Women. “But there’s no way to know whether 
they truly were or if they just wanted the part.” After col-lege, as actors begin to be paid for their work, the dynamic 
evolves yet again: employer, employee. If you won’t do your 
job (naked, or in your underwear, or in a parka), someone 
else will. Says Buzan, “If David O. Russell was like, ‘Come 
be in my film, but there’s a huge sex scene,’ I’d be like, ‘Of 
course.’”

At least once a week, senior Emma Speer squats and con-
torts her body on a white podium in the middle of a class-
room, completely naked. Around her, students sit at atten-
tion, eyes following the curves of her body, pencils tracing 
her outline. For her, discomfort isn’t a factor in this situa-
tion. “I feel like there’s a chunk of my brain missing,” she 
told me. “There are people on this campus who have seen 
the innards of my asshole.” She shrugs. 
If Speer was playing a nude model in a play, if the peo-
ple around her were fellow actors, and if those actors were 
able to touch her, her scenes would fall under Point Six of 
the protocols: “When scenes with partial nudity, nudity, and 
consensual sexual touching are being staged…closing such 
a rehearsal to all but essential personnel…is standard,” it 
reads. “Exceptions should be rare and agreed to by all actors, 
stage manager, and director.”
No such rules exist at the School of Art. Samuel Messer, 
Associate Dean of the School of Art, says that the school 
doesn’t have protocols like the School of Drama does because 
they don’t need them. “It’s a different kind of space—a non-
sexual space,” he explained. It’s not like in an acting class or 
a rehearsal, where the students are physically engaging with 
each other. “You can’t touch the models,” he told me.
Gabby Bucay, a senior art major at Yale who began mod-
eling last January, agrees that the space is “desexualized” 
during the majority of each class. “As someone who has also 
drawn nude models, I know you get 100 percent desensitized 
almost instantly,” she said. “It’s like drawing a box.” But in 
between poses, the professor sometimes pauses the action so 
students can get water or supplies. Bucay said that when the 
pose is finished, leaving the situation less structured, “there’s 
this strange hierarchy.” Speer recalls instances where men 
have complimented her smile, or tried to talk to her even 
while she was posing. She hates it, she said.
Another argument against regulating nude models is that 
they are a self-selecting group. The job pays twenty-five dol-
lars an hour, and students apply under the assumption that 
they’ll be naked in front of a class. This means most Title 
IX violations registered would fall under the employ-ment 
discrimination exception BFOQ—Bona Fide Occupational 
Qualification. “If there’s a casting call and they’re looking for 
a short black woman to play a part, it’s hard to say that’s racist 
or sexist because that’s a BFOQ,” Professor Fischel explains. 
“In the case of having nude models it would be hard to say, 
‘I don’t want to be naked.’” But with something as nebulous 
as sexual discomfort, should actors have to assume its possi-
bility as part of the job description?

Last year at the School of Drama, three plays, including 
Women Beware Women, dealt with graphic sexual abuse. By 
December 2016, two more productions had begun rehears-
ing: Bulgar-ia! and Othello. This spring, it’s ’Tis Pity She’s a 
Whore (whose general content one can infer from the title) 
and Titus Andronicus (“Huge rape scenes, lots of dragging 
onstage,” explains Yionoulis). It’s clear: sex—and sexual vio-
lence—sells. So perhaps the protocols miss tackling a bigger 
question: why are non-consensual sex scenes so pervasive in 
theater and film? Why are bodies—particularly female bod-
ies—constantly made vulnerable for the audience’s benefit?
 “It gets a little bit, frankly, boring,” Professor Fischel says. 
“I don’t mean that in a crude way, but rape is always the 
go-to metaphor. Directors need to be asking themselves, do 
you need to have this scene be assaultive?” Actor Sean Hig-
gins agrees. He worries both about how enacting violence 
affects actors and the potential for graphic scenes to trigger 
audience members. “We shouldn’t shy away from the stories 
or be scared,” he says, “but there’s an inherent responsibility 
that we have to live the weight and truth of what those things 
are so that it’s not dealt with in an inconsiderate way.” This 
responsibility falls on the actors and creative team, whose 


--- Page 32 ---

 32
vision for depicting graphic scenes can vary.
Speer, for whom nudity is second nature, starred in her 
own one-woman play in the fall. In the very first scene, she 
made the choice to enter fully naked. “I wanted to be com-
pletely vulnerable; to show people I’m just a person,” she 
explains. This was her project, over which she had com-
plete autonomy: laying her body bare felt important, and 
fell within her comfort zone. Sometimes, the playwright 
includes the need for sexual content or nudity in the stage 
directions. But when the stage directions are ambiguous, it’s 
up to the director to decide how far to push the scene. Buzan 
told me that having a smart woman at the helm of Women 
Beware Women—rough as it was—kept it from derailing. 
But boundaries were still pushed. For the nude scene, the 
only written stage direction read: “Leantio dressing,” and 
nothing else. This could have been interpreted several ways: 
maybe he was doing so after sex, and could end the nudity 
after five or ten minutes. Morris, however, says that in order 
to achieve the “bald rawness” of the relationship, she felt 
the nudity had to be complete and extended. As for the rape 
scene in Women Beware Women, which was indicated as an 
“attack” in the script, Morris insists that if anything, it didn’t 
go far enough: “If I staged it again, I would have made it 
harder to watch.”

When his students at Yale read Romeo and Juliet, actor 
Peter Francis James wants them to embrace discomfort. 
James, who is black, suggests that when Tybalt insults Romeo, 
he substitute “villain” for a more modern slur. “When you 
say ‘villain,’ the audience’s spines don’t do anything. When 
you say ‘nigger,’ their spines tighten,” he explains. It’s that 
tightening that James says is the essence of the theater. “The 
nature of what we do is to discuss the uncomfortable, to 
make the hidden seen, to make the repressed voiced.”
James also advised the School of Drama’s cast for their 
2016 production of Othello. When the director mentioned 
the new consent protocols on the first day of rehearsal, James 
was dubious. “I fear that they might be interpreted that you 
should not make anyone uncomfortable in any way,” he says. 
“There’s a distinction between comfort and abuse.” 
Shakespeare’s Othello was the first play to require the pro-
tocols, and it’s filled with slutshaming, verbal slurs, physical 
abuse, sex, and murder. Buzan, who plays Desdemona, is 
assaulted and killed in her bed, in her underwear. “In this 
play, it would be beyond peculiar for Desdemona to say we 
shouldn’t kill her at the end because it’s abuse,” says James, 
laughing. “How would you be able to discuss the condition 
of women without it?” The protocols don’t suggest changing 
scripts, however, and make no mention of veto power over 
physical abuse.
But what if artistry and agency could go hand in hand? 
Before, there may have been unspoken discomfort in the 
rehearsal room; now, there are structures in place for raising 
concerns. “Of course you have to find the balance between 
not making rules that deter from the creative process, but 
you have to be comfortable with one another to make art,” 
says School of Drama student Francesca McKenzie. Fellow 
student Emily Reeder says she feels empowered by the pro-
tocols. “They disrupt the power structure of doing whatever 
the director or professor says,” she explains.
According to Channick, most of the complaints that come 
to her concern individuals outside the school, like profes-
sional actors at the Yale Repertory Theatre. She recalls one 
man saying, “I’m an actor—if the scene calls for me to grab 
you and stick my tongue down your throat, I’m going to do 
it.” When I repeat these words to six actors I interviewed, 
they shudder. Dean Bundy, however, asserts that there has 
been little pushback from professionals at the Yale Repertory 
Theater. No one has declined to sign the contracts they’ve 
sent along with the protocols.
Consent and communication protocols and workshops 
are easier to implement from within an institution like Yale. 
“We don’t spend a lot of time here worrying about cash flow 
or keeping lights on or pay roll,” says Dean Bundy. With 
that cushion, the School of Drama can afford to focus on 
what kind of acting practices they’re sending into the profes-
sional world—an issue that takes consideration. “Thinking 
both about the kinds of communities we create here and the 
kinds of leaders these people go on to become is important,” 
she says. “It’s about the here and now, but it’s also bigger 
than that.” 
Students at the School of Drama only spend part of their 
days in rehearsal and even less on stage. They’re often only 
at Yale for three years. So while the school’s protocol works 
within the con-fines of fantasy scenarios or rehearsal rooms, 
prioritizing mutual respect also applies to social and sexual 
situations outside of the theater world. It reminds us that 
consent can, and should, exist in every part of life, both in 
and out of the spotlight.
– Sarah Holder is a senior 
in Saybrook College.


**Title: The Science of Getting Paid**
**Author: Marc Shkurovich**
**Page number(s): 33**

 33
Fifty-six years ago, a flyer around 
downtown New Haven sought subjects 
for a social psychology study. Volun-
teers found themselves in the basement 
of Linsly-Chittenden Hall, in Professor 
Stanley Milgram’s lab. Milgram, who 
was investigating obedience to authority, 
commanded his subjects to shock some-
one else with increasing voltages of elec-
tricity until they refused. Before they were 
debriefed, volunteers thought they had 
actually caused another human being 
intense pain, and, perhaps, depending on 
how far they went, death. For their hour 
of service, Milgram paid his volunteers 
$4.00, plus an extra $.50 for car fare.
Though it’s now considered “uneth-
ical” for experimenters to make you 
think you murdered someone, university 
researchers still need volunteers to carry 
out their research. And many undergrad-
uates are eager to serve as human guinea 
pigs in exchange for some fast cash. As 
with many things at this school, I first 
heard of paid studies through a panlist. 
Yi-Chia Chen, a graduate student in the 
Psychology Department, was sending me 
emails on behalf of the Perception and 
Cognition Lab before I even attended my 
first class at Yale. So, what is it actually 
like to participate in these studies? And 
why do certain students seek them out so 
fiercely?
Given how neatly the weekly emails are 
formatted, I expected that these experi-
ments would involve complex procedures 
and high-tech equipment. At least elec-
trodes, if not lasers. Instead, I was left in a 
dark room with only a desktop computer 
(not even a Mac) on the third floor of 
SSS, where I participated in two under-
whelming 30-minute studies.
The first study was an almost-fun game: 
all I had to do was move my mouse to 
evade little arrows chasing my cursor. But 
the second was the most monotonous half 
hour of my life. I was presented with pairs 
of swan-like creatures, two-dimensional 
and white but with too many wings. I had 
to pick which I preferred (an easy task 
because I’m great at arbitrarily applying 
human beauty standards to non-human 
entities). Though I had ample time to 
contemplate my tasks, I couldn’t decipher 
the objectives of these exercises until my 
experimenter “debriefed” me—which 
was just an explanation of the hyper-spe-
cific phenomenon they were testing; 
not nearly as exciting as the sleek word 
“debrief” might imply. I guess SSS isn’t 
the CIA, even though I was paid with 
what had once been government grant 
money. The experimenter slipped me a 
illustration katherine xiu
Becoming a guinea pig for $13 and a tumbler



**Title: The Lab Rats of Yale**
**Author: Marc Shkurovich**
**Page number(s): 34**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I recently participated in a pair of Yale studies, and I 
came away with ten dollars and a broken ceramic 
tumbler. 


The first study I did was a breeze—a mere half-hour 
of clicking a mouse and reading prompts on a com-
puter screen. It left me with a crisp $5 bill after each 
study. That weekend, wanting to invest my hard-earned 
money in the local economy, I went to Junzi’s Night 
Lunch and spent the $10 on a rice bowl and iced tea.


The next week, I stumbled through the 
intimidatingly-clean 
chrome-and-blue 
corridors of the School of Management 
until I found the spartan basement where 
the SOM Lab conducts its studies. The 
activity I participated in had something 
to do with game theory and was compli-
cated enough that I still haven’t received 
full payment—my reward will depend on 
decisions that another participant made; 
I’m either due another $20 on top of the 
$10 they gave me, or I’m shit out of luck. 
The next day, I made the schlep up Whit-
ney Avenue again for a second study. This 
one was basically online shopping, and 
much more up my alley: it involved pick-
ing between differently priced merchan-
dise in each trial. After 30 minutes, I left 
with $13 dollars and a ceramic Yale-brand 
tumbler, one of the merchandise combos 
I had chosen. Unfortunately, it fell off my 
nightstand and shattered before I could 
even write about how excited I was to 
make martinis with it.


Unlike me, some students who engage 
in these paid studies are looking for more 
than bartending accoutrements. Ryan 
Mera Evans, who is taking time off from 
Yale and doesn’t have access to student 
jobs, speaks in devil-may-care socialist 
lingo that reflects his stance: “My ass is 
just broke and unemployed for several 
months now, kind of like scratching by. 
And studies are a mainstay on the circuit 
to establish some sort of financial auton-
omy outside of traditional work.” He has 
taken to strolling around campus looking 
at bulletin boards to see if any new post-
ers have been put up. “This is a means of 
getting money that I’m required to have in 
order to fucking live… So, it’s work.”


And others still are just opportunistic 
money-grubbers. The catchiest posters are 
those searching for “healthy, lean, and 
sedentary” volunteers. Sophomore Louis 
DeFelice fits the criteria, and has done 
the study twice, making $200 each time 
in return for chugging a glucose solution, 
spending four hours on an IV, wearing a 
pedometer for three days, and finally suffer-
ing through an MRI at the School of Med-
icine (he is claustrophobic). But for him, 
“the money is really tempting,” and his 
phobia matters less than the paycheck: “If 
you think you’re going to be in there for 40 
minutes and you’re gonna get $200, I don’t 
know… It’s a good hourly wage.” Besides 
involving more whirring metal tubes, the 
most extreme study he has done required 
him to fast for 48 hours, during midterms, 
on his birthday. (It paid close to $1000.) I 
felt compelled to ask him what he wouldn’t 
do. “There’s this famous experiment where 
these strangers come into a room and 
they’re delivering electric shocks to some-
one in another room…” 


If you’re willing to put up with a half 
hour of tedium—or just want some com-
pensation for researching a story—there’s 
petty cash to be made on campus. But the 
big bucks wait for those who chase these 
studies out of economic necessity or finan-
cial desire, sacrificing their time and bodies 
for cash: the true lab rats of Yale.
– Marc Shkurovich is a sophomore 
in Berkeley College.

