Publication date: 04/92
Volume 24, Issue 5

**Title: Tipping the Scales**
**Author: Nina Morrison**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
L. ast year, while I was home on break, my best friend told me about a recent conversation she'd had with her older brother. Why, he had asked her, did so many women gain weight in college? 
She couldn't come up with an answer, so the two of us mulled it over. Although her brother is not known for stunning insight into the lives of women, we had to admit he had called this one right, at least where the women we knew from high school were concerned. Some of us hadn't gained an ounce since our senior class photos, and a few were battling eating disorders. 
But most of us, neither obsessive dieters nor ready for queen-sized pantyhose, had certainly put on a few pounds, some over and above the old frosh fifteen. 

Somehow, though, my friend and I couldn't reconcile this picture of sudden weight gain with the favorable perception we had of our college experiences. The women we knew-despite the usual ups and downs, and a few bouts with end-of-the-world despair-had, for the most part, grown stronger and more confident in these years. And yet here we were, with these sudden, not-exactly voluntary changes in our bodies-right at the time we supposedly felt most in control, most sure of ourselves ... most, well, happy. So we groped around for an answer to her brother's query, expecting to find some yet-unseen "dark side" to account for the extra pounds. The weight gain wasn't something peculiar to women in the Ivy League; we'd seen it in friends at colleges across the country. Maybe, we mused, all these "happy" women were wracked by the pressures of academia, deep-rooted insecurities, or crippling identity crises. And we wondered: What is wrong with us? 

For me, the issue held even deeper resonance. I spent my high school years on a yo-yo dieting regime that ruled my life. Though I never approached the danger zone that some of my peers did-two close friends were hospitalized for bulimia-I spent ninth and tenth grades cutting my food into baby-sized pieces, computing daily calorie totals on scraps of paper between classes, and telling myself that my basketball game would reach All-Star proportions if only I could get my weight down from 112 to 104 pounds. 
I eased up a bit in my junior and senior years, what with all the beer and late-night ice cream feasts my friends and I enjoyed. But I never stopped noticing the upward-creeping needle on the scale. 
Finally, in the spring of my senior year, I convinced my mom to enroll me in Diet Center, where I lost 23 pounds and gained a chorus of"congrats, you look fantastic" from just about everyone I knew. I was such a successful customer-and proclaimed the "I-look-great-but-mostly-I-feel-great" party line with such gusto--that they hired me to be a Diet Counselor (yes, feminist comrades, you're reading this right), where I got paid to chastise women twice my age for eating an extra blueberry muffin or indulging in a glass of wine. 

When I came to college, I took my scale with me, but after the first few months the old diet rules lost some of their power. I joined in midnight pizza runs, realized that if I was going to drink beer I might as well drink Kalhua, and got too busy with work and play to go to the gym as often as I'd planned. The ideological shift came later. By sophomore year, I had discovered love-your-body books like Kim Chernin's The Obsession: Reflections on the Tyranny of Slenderness. Chernin linked the rise of eating disorders and the cult of thinness to a backlash against the women's movement-a backlash that urged women to be smaller than ever before, just as our horizons had begun to grow. Strangely, this was the first time that I saw how much my small-scale obsession undermined the feminist principles I cared about most. I threw out the scale, declared "I'll never diet again," and vowed to accept my new (liberated) physique. 

In truth, though, my personal revolution never fully displaced the old, oppressive regime. I haven't dieted for years, and books like Naomi Wolf's The Beauty Myth have helped me to the point where I can truly say that I like what I look like, "extra" college weight and all. Yet in the recesses of my mind, I haven't yet surrendered the idea that someday, when I'm not caught up in a political campaign or searching for a job, I may get that 112-pound-body back. And when my friend's brother asked his question, I felt a sting of self-reproach. Thinking about weight gain was one thing: it's hard to break free of life-long taboos overnight. But mostly, I was worried about how I must have gotten that way. Sure, I felt strong and independent for most of my college years, but look at how my body had changed: I must be burying my sorrows in food, or a closet Type-A stress case. I must have let my life become chaos, or have just been careless. The unspoken What is wrong with us? became an even more nagging refrain: What is wrong with me? 

It is only recently that I have begun to see that these images- of women gaining confidence and independence on the one hand, and 15 pounds on the other-may not be as irreconcilable as I once thought. Not all the women I know who gained weight in college embraced the fat-is-beautiful idea. But many of us did get wrapped up in our work, in relationships (both good and bad), in pondering the Big Questions of life. And, quite frankly, a lot of us had other things to do besides worry about what we ate every minute. That may be the most liberating change of all. True, many of us could be careless in what we ate-but we also learned to care less about the number on the scale in a given week, and care more about New Haven politics or a new photography class. We may not have wished for a bigger body, but as our workloads and extra-curricular commitments increased, so did the amount of food we needed to eat to keep going. We expanded our brains, gained experience and wisdom, and learned, even in the pressure-cooker we call Yale, to let ourselves go when we needed a break. All of these changes show on our bodies, but this reflection of our choices and experiences is far from a dismal picture. I'm thinking of moments when we women have let food, even in excess, be a part of our good times: sharing rich entrees at a housewarming party; hosting cake-and-champagne celebrations when a friend gets a job offer (yes, seniors, there have been a few of those); or the annual gathering at the Women's Center after the Speak Out and Take Back the Night March, when we devour two vats of ice cream because we need the comfort and nourishment after a draining day. 

Better yet, there have been moments when the "to eat or not to eat" dilemma has been almost irrelevant: when we're writing a paper that just refuses to end, so we keep ourselves awake on coffee and Reese's pieces, or when we are so busy with a project that we grab whatever is on the shelf at Wawa's for dinner, calories and day-after nausea be damned. And then, too, there are those less-than-wonderful moments when we have let food be a much-needed panacea-like when friends console us with an entire box of Oreos (and Kleenex) after we've been dumped. 

Do these images make you uncomfortable? Writing them, I felt a bit of a twinge myself-women eating junk food, or high-calorie meals of any kind, is hardly the image we are taught to associate with maturity and personal growth. Obviously, there is nothing "healthy" about unhealthy food, and a pack of Reese's is no long-term solution for stress. Yet much as I hate Gordon Gekko and his Wall Street ethos, perhaps the "greed is good" credo does have some meaning for women's lives. Women, more than men, are taught to feel guilty about indulgence, and the evidence of our "sins" where food is concerned gets frowned upon even more. That so many of us have been able to toss aside these mandates-to eat what we feel like eating, because, even if just for a moment, other things in our lives are more important-is a hopeful sign. 

I am not suggesting that all women have plunged, full of self-confidence, into the waters of "food freedom." Recent estimates place the number of women on college campuses with eating disorders at between 20 and 50 percent. Even among those of us without full-blown eating disorders, it would be hard to find a single one who does not have her own doubts, anxieties, and share of self-loathing about her body. And certainly, not all of us have had blissful college careers. The campus abounds with women who take out anger, pain, and stress on their own bodies, and for whom eating is a prisonhouse rather than a sign of liberation. No doubt, some of the women who have gained or lost weight in college are deeply troubled, and their changing exteriors do signify inner torment. 

But this isn't the case for all of us. When we "take care of ourselves" it may mean we spend a day in the sun, or buy a new dress, or go for a long, sweaty run. Yet at other times it may