Publication date: April 2020
Volume: 42
Issue number: 55

**MASTHEAD**
- editors-in-chief: Helena Lyng-Olsen, Candice Wang
- executive editor: Elena DeBre
- managing editor: Hailey Andrews
- associate editors: Jack Delaney, Alexandra Galloway, Zachary Groz, Madison Hahamy, Tiffany Ng, Meera Rothman, Nicholas Ruiz-Huidobro
- Magdits: members and directors: Emily Bazelon, Peter Cooper, Jonathan Dach, Kathrin Lassila, Eric Rutkow, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, Fred Strebeigh, Aliyya Swaby
- advisors: Neela Banerjee, Richard Bradley, Susan Braudy, Lincoln Caplan, Jay Carney, Andy Court, Joshua Civin, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Susan Dominus, David Greenberg, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Laura Pappano, Jennifer Pitts, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, David Slifka, John Swansburg, Anya Kamenetz, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- friends: Nicole Allan, Margaret Bauer, Mark Badger and Laura Heymann, Susan Braudy, Julia Calagiovanni, Elisha Cooper, Haley Cohen, Peter Cooper, Andy Court, The Elizabethan Club, Leslie Dach, David Freeman and Judith Gingold, Paul Haigney and Tracey Roberts, Bob Lamm, James Liberman, Alka Mansukhani, Benjamin Mueller, Sophia Nguyen, Valerie Nierenberg, Morris Panner, Jennifer Pitts, R. Anthony Reese, Eric Rutkow, Lainie Rutkow, Laura Saavedra and David Buckley, Anne-Marie Slaughter, Elizabeth Sledge, Caroline Smith, Gabriel Snyder, Elizabeth Steig, Aliyya Swaby, John Jeremiah Sullivan, Daphne and David Sydney, Kristian and Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Townsend Wilson, Daniel Yergin, William Yuen
- senior editors: Beasie Goddu, Jack McCordick, Eli Mennerick, Trish Viveros, Elliot Wailoo, Alejandra Larriva-Latt
- copy editors: Nicole Dirks, Ella Goldblum
- creative director: Meher Hans
- design editors: Brian Chang, Natasha Gaither, Rebecca Goldberg, Annli Nakayama


**TABLE OF CONTENTS**
- THE COMPROMISE - Mara Hoplamazian
- SHELTERING WITHOUT PLACE - Rachel Calcott
- WHAT IT TAKES TO STAY - Ko Lyn Cheang
- essay: NO PLACE LIKE HOME - Ko Lyn Cheang
- photography: 587 - Kellen Silver
- profile: THE SURVIVOR - Caitlin O’Hara
- poem: MORNING - Jack Delaney
- poem: A CAVE - Jordan Cutler-Tietjen
- snapshot: THE STUDENTS WHO STAYED - Ella Goldblum
- photography: OLDSMOBILE DELTA 88 & PROVINCE-TOWN HARBOR - Beasie Goddu
- endnote: THAT’S WHY I CHOSE ZOOM - Alexandra Galloway


**Title: WHEN THE WORLD STOOD STILL**
**Author:  [No author listed]**
**Page number(s): 1**


WHEN THE WORLD 
STOOD STILL
The New Journal
  Volume 42, No. 55                   The magazine about Yale and New Haven                      April 2020



**Title:  Dear readers,**
**Author: Helena & Candice**
**Page number(s): 2**


Dear readers,
In a time of social isolation, we can find togetherness through storytelling—through listening to the voices of those 
you know and those you don’t. The New Journal’s mission for fifty-three years has been to produce human-centered 
narrative journalism. These are strange, uncharted times, but they remind us more than ever that stories reinforce 
our sense of common humanity.
We bring to you the voices of students who are grappling with the idea of what academic excellence and grades 
mean during a global public health crisis, students who are lingering behind in an empty campus, and students who 
are trying to find out what “home” truly means to them. We follow the extraordinary efforts of a New Haven activist 
supporting survival sex workers during the pandemic, and we witness the trajectory of an unlikely close friendship 
between a disability rights activist and a visiting student. Our feature paints a vivid picture of a Muslim man’s 
decades-long resistance to deportation, and our issue ends on a poignant note about how Yalies can still remain 
together, even when apart, through Zoom. 
Our editors, scattered from Connecticut to California to Hong Kong to Illinois, have reunited through the screen to 
create The New Journal’s first ever remotely produced issue. Let us know your thoughts on the magazine, or about 
any ideas you’d like to share with us—we’d love to start a conversation.  
Yours,
Helena & Candice



**Title: THE COMPROMISE**
**Author: Mara Hoplamazian**
**Page number(s): 3**


APRIL 2020
 3
4	
THE COMPROMISE
	
A college-wide debate about grading has unearthed 	
	
a deeper conversation about sacrifice and inequity on 	
	
Yale’s campus.
	
by Mara Hoplamazian


**Title: SHELTERING WITHOUT PLACE**
**Author: Rachel Calcott**
**Page number(s): 23**


23	
SHELTERING WITHOUT PLACE
	
New Haven’s survival sex workers are particularly 	 	
	
vulnerable to the life-or-death repercussions 
	
of COVID-19.
	
by Rachel Calcott


**Title: WHAT IT TAKES TO STAY**
**Author: Ko Lyn Cheang**
**Page number(s): 28**


28	
WHAT IT TAKES TO STAY
	
When ICE came knocking, two religious communities 	
	
stepped in to save a Muslim man from deportation.
	
by Ko Lyn Cheang


**Title: essay: NO PLACE LIKE HOME**
**Page number(s): 8**


8	
essay: NO PLACE LIKE HOME
	


**Title: photography: 587**
**Author: Kellen Silver**
**Page number(s): 12**


12	
photography: 587
	
by Kellen Silver


**Title: profile: THE SURVIVOR**
**Author: Caitlin O’Hara**
**Page number(s): 13**


13	
profile: THE SURVIVOR
	
by Caitlin O’Hara


**Title: poem: MORNING**
**Author: Jack Delaney**
**Page number(s): 17**


17	
poem: MORNING
	
by Jack Delaney


**Title: poem: A CAVE**
**Author: Jordan Cutler-Tietjen**
**Page number(s): 18**


18	
poem: A CAVE
	
by Jordan Cutler-Tietjen


**Title: snapshot: THE STUDENTS WHO STAYED**
**Author: Ella Goldblum**
**Page number(s): 19**


19	
snapshot: THE STUDENTS WHO STAYED
	
by Ella Goldblum


**Title: photography: OLDSMOBILE DELTA 88 & PROVINCE-TOWN HARBOR**
**Author: Beasie Goddu**
**Page number(s): 27**


27	
photography: OLDSMOBILE DELTA 88 & PROVINCE-	 	
	
TOWN HARBOR	
	
	
Beasie Goddu


**Title: endnote: THAT’S WHY I CHOSE ZOOM**
**Author: Alexandra Galloway**
**Page number(s): 36**


36	
endnote: THAT’S WHY I CHOSE ZOOM
	
by Alexandra Galloway



**Title: CRITICAL ANGLE**
**Author: Mara Hoplamazian**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Alannah Maynez ’20 wakes up at 8:30 a.m. in 
Portland, Oregon and makes herself a cup of cof­
fee before she Zooms into her English seminar. 
The seminar has felt off ever since the pandemic 
started—–her professor has stopped implement­
ing class plans, and students have started plan­
ning the lessons, instead. Alannah is three hours 
behind her professors in New Haven, so her 
daily schedule has shifted significantly earlier. 
She Zooms into a psychology seminar at 10:30 
a.m., then “Drugs and Brain Behavior” at 1:00 
p.m.. When her classes are over around 2:30, she 
laces up her sneakers and goes for a run. In the 
afternoon, she hangs out with her brother, cooks 
dinner, and FaceTimes with friends on the other 
coast. Around 9:00 p.m., her mom comes home 
from her shift as a nurse practitioner, where she 
has spent the day treating immunocompromised 
and elderly patients, many of whom are sick with 
COVID-19. Ten people have died of the virus in 
one of the facilities she serves. Alannah stays up to 
chat with her mom about her day before going to 
bed. She says, “When I was at school all I would 
do is study. Now I don’t study that much. There’s 
just a lot of stuff going on at home.”


A few hours after Alannah, in a different time 
zone, Abey Philip wakes up in Louisville, Ken­
tucky. His mother, also a nurse, returns home at 
8:30 a.m. from her night shift at Baptist Health, 
the same night shift she’s been working for six­
teen years. She works on an all-COVID floor 
now. The hospital only allows her to check out 
two face masks for each twelve-hour shift, a rule 
that leaves her without necessary protection for 
much of her time at the hospital. In the morning, 
Abey does some homework, says hi to his mom, 
and then Zooms into L3 Spanish at 10:30 a.m.. 
Afterwards, he cooks himself some lunch, and 
spends the afternoon doing schoolwork. Then, 
he laces up his shoes and heads for the park he’s 
been visiting since childhood. His mom leaves 
for the hospital again around 6:10 p.m., and Abey 
settles down for the night to finish his homework. 
The night before we talked, he’d stayed up until 
midnight to turn in a paper due the next day. “But 
if push comes to shove, and I sat down and talked 
to my mom and grandparents and we were about 
to watch a Bollywood movie, I would skip a semi­
nar. In a heartbeat,” he says. “At this point, when 
everyone is so stressed, the times we can spend 
together as a community and as a family are really 
important.” 


Alannah and Abey are worrying about the same 
things: their mothers, who are both working as 
nurses, and their grandparents and siblings, who 
they take care of at home. Both of them told me 
they’re most worried about those who are more 
vulnerable right now. Alannah worries about the 
workers who are on temporary contracts and don’t 
have paid time off, like some dining hall workers 
and facilities staff. Abey worries about students, 
specifically those from rural areas and first gener­
ation or low-income backgrounds, who are navi­
gating financial uncertainty and other barriers to 
online classes, like issues with internet access. 
They’re both coping with life during a global 
pandemic. And yet, they’ve found themselves on 
opposite sides of a divisive issue—how they should 
be graded on schoolwork during this crisis. Lurk­
ing within this question, another, quieter debate 
has emerged around grades themselves: what do 
grades measure? And do they reflect our achieve­
ments equally, even when we’re on campus? 
On April 7, Dean Marvin Chun announced 
that all Yale College classes would be graded on 
a Pass/Fail basis for the spring semester of 2020. 
His announcement arrived after three weeks of 
contentious debate, throughout which students’ 
concerns unfolded into a full-fledged movement 
called No Fail Yale. Abey was one of the organiz­
ers of this movement, which advocated for a Uni­
versal Pass grading policy. Under Universal Pass, 
all Yale students would earn a grade of “P” on 
their Spring 2020 transcripts. Dean Chun thinks 
that this is the only equitable way to move for­
ward, given the diversity of issues that students are 
facing at home.


Alannah doesn’t agree. She’s concerned that 
the movement misrepresented the interests of 
marginalized communities and feels disappointed 
that students are spending so much time talking 
about grades. “This is literally a debate over, like, 
marks on a transcript,” she said. Instead of the 
debate around Universal Pass, she wishes students 
were spending more time pushing Yale to support 
the other members of our community—casual 
workers especially—who have been impacted by 
the pandemic. 


The No Fail Yale movement emerged from 
inequities within the student body that arose in 
the wake of COVID-19. Organizers acknowl­
edged that students have different kinds of access 
to resources like Wi-Fi, free time, and quiet study 
spaces wherever they’re sheltering-in-place, and 
that these differences impact students’ focus on 
schoolwork––and, ultimately, their grades. Their 
goal was to ensure that no Yalies are penalized 
academically for circumstances beyond their con­
trol when they’re home. But students’ removal 
from Yale calls into question the differences in 
resources that have existed on campus all along. 
No Fail Yale encourages us to ask: have grades 
ever evaluated us equitably?


Central to that question is another one of equal 
importance: what is a grade, really? The first 
recorded grades in the United States were given 
out at Yale, in the form of a diary entry by Ezra 
Stiles, the seventh president of Yale College. 
He evaluated the fifty-eight seniors graduating 
in the class of 1785, recording “Twenty Optimi, 
sixteen second Optimi, twelve Inferiores (Boni), 
ten Perjores,” based on public and private displays 
of knowledge. For Stiles, grading was a personal 
practice—a record of his interpretation of how 
well students were displaying what they learned 
on campus. This impulse to rank students against 
one another based on their demonstration of 
knowledge remained salient, though grading sys­
tems varied widely among universities for the next 
two centuries. Yale changed grading systems four 
times between 1967 and 1981, cycling through a 
numerical system, an Honors/High Pass system, 
and an A-F system before settling on the A-F sys­
tem with pluses and minuses in use today. 


This pandemic is not unique in having the 
power to shift systems of grading.  In the late 
nineteen-sixties, when students removed from 
Yale due to academic failure became eligible for 
drafting into the Vietnam War, one Yale professor 
simply gave all of his students A’s. In the spring of 
1970, during the New Haven Black Panther tri­
als, students decided to strike, and held late-night 
meetings in their residential colleges to ask fac­
ulty and administration to do the same. Nine of 
twelve residential colleges decided to shut down 
academically and voted to open their doors to 
those who arrived from out of town to attend the 
trials. After the vote, a large majority of Yale stu­
dents stopped going to class and instead trained 
as marshals, attended teach-ins, and directed their 
energy towards the trials. In a meeting convened 
by Yale’s president Kingman Brewster, faculty 
voted that normal academic expectations, includ­
ing classes, would be suspended for the duration 
of the trials. 


In the spring of 1970, students convened across 
New Haven to organize a halting of business-as-
usual on campus. In the spring of 2020, students 
from all over the world convened on Twitter time­
lines, Instagram stories, and Facebook profile pic­
tures to do the same thing. No Fail Yale drew wide 
support from students, cultural houses, professors, 
and the Yale College Council, or YCC. Due to 
students’ social distancing and migration off cam­
pus, the movement was held exclusively online, 
without any marches or sit-ins. The reliance on 
social media as a tool for organizing opened up 
conflict particular to the internet—conflicts that 
became biting, then personal. Isaiah Schrader, a 
junior, wrote a 179-word Facebook post about why 
he disagreed with the movement around Univer­
sal Pass. The post received 196 comments, many 
of which were from students who vehemently dis­
agreed with him. “We are in the midst of a fuck­
ing catastrophe,” wrote one commenter to Isaiah. 
Isaiah worried that law schools and medical 
schools would not approach the lack of grades 
with compassion. In his opinion, more choice, 
not less, would provide students in tough situa­
tions with better options. He also mentioned that 
a Universal Pass system would not represent the 
interests of all first generation, low-income, or 
FGLI students––even though some of these stu­
dents have become the core of the No Fail Yale 
movement.


Alannah, who identifies as a low-income stu­
dent, said, “I feel like the entire movement is 
trying to capitalize on the suffering of marginal­
ized communities in order to derive some self-in­
terested gain. And, like, this is a group of priv­
ileged Yalies.” Her concerns arose mainly from 
the way the movement has used the rhetoric of 
“marginalized students,” and the way that other 
vulnerable people—like workers at Yale who 
aren’t in unions—have been forgotten within that 
language.  “This whole conversation is not about 
the most vulnerable in our community. We forgot 
about them a month ago. We erased them,” she 
said. “I don’t know how anyone would feel that 
the best way to help marginalized groups during 
this situation would be to, like, inundate our 
administration’s and faculty’s inboxes with emails 
about grades.” 


Joe Peck ’21, a student from England, also did 
not support Universal Pass for reasons tied to his 
experience as a FGLI and international student. 
“FGLI students generally do better as they go 
through Yale,” Joe said. “I think a lot of students 
are very prepared when they come here, they 
come from nicer schools and they’re able to fit in 
very well. But it’s been true that my first semes­
ter here was my worst, and every single semester 
I’ve been here I’ve improved my GPA.” When Joe 
is at Yale, he works sixteen hours every week to 
fulfill his student income contribution. Now, for 
the first time ever, he doesn’t have to work those 
long shifts anymore, because Yale has committed 
to paying student workers their salaries even if 
they’re unable to work remotely. With this new­
found time, he can focus on school without pull­
ing all-nighters, as he often does on campus. 


Some of Joe’s friends accused him of being self­
ish for his stance. “It’s very frustrating for me for a 
number of reasons. I never heard that throughout 
the year—no one ever said, ‘Oh, those kids who 
aren’t working sixteen hours a week, they’re being 
selfish.’ There was no solidarity there. Suddenly 
I’m doing well, despite everything I’ve had to go 
through. And now I’m the selfish one,” he said.


Joe’s concern—that life at Yale has always been 
inequitable—is one that the organizers of No 
Fail Yale anticipated. On their “Frequently Asked 
Questions” document, one of the questions is, 
“Yale was unfair anyways. Why should this change 
now?” The organizers respond, “We should strive 
to be the change we want to see. There is no rea­
son to confine our expectations of the institutions 
we love to what the world has tried to force us to 
accept as reasonable and just.” 



**Title: No Fail Yale**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
No Fail Yale focuses around the idea that we 
are on more equal footing on campus than off. 
But when I asked Abey about whether he thought 
of Yale’s campus as an egalitarian place, he said, 
“I think it’s an equalizer, but it doesn’t make 
things equal. So yes, Yale provides us with nec­
essary resources like Wi-Fi, quiet study spaces, et 
cetera. But you can plainly see at Yale that things 
aren’t equal.” 

Sarah Pitafi, another organizer of No Fail Yale, 
believes that this movement reveals the under­
lying inequalities that permeate the Yale experi­
ence. “We are finally able to make the administra­
tion collectively recognize the degree of inequity 
on campus,” Sarah said. “Students have been 
saying, ‘well, we’ve always been reliant on really 
badly paid jobs, we’ve always been struggling with 
accessibility issues, we’ve always been struggling 
with lack of access to technology.’ The list goes 
on. All of these issues have always existed. Now 
it’s a matter of them being exacerbated greatly by 
a global pandemic.” Sarah hopes that when stu­
dents return to campus, they won’t forget. She 
hopes that the pandemic has presented a moment 
to discuss inequity in all its forms—on and off 
campus. “Now the University is forced to start 
addressing the reality of students’ daily lives,” she 
said. 

Sarah notes the way that grades play into these 
realities. She questions whether grades are the 
best way to document students’ success. “You’re 
kind of held captive by this idea of your grades 
being almost like a function of who you are, of 
being a function of your success,” she said, “but 
realizing how quickly grades can be discarded 
whenever you need to focus on what matters most 
has also turned into a larger conversation about—
are grades really necessary?” With Universal Pass 
comes the realization that has been happening 
across institutions throughout the United States 
during the coronavirus crisis: people created the 
systems we live our lives by, and people can dis­
mantle them, too. 

Each day, Alannah, Abey, Isaiah, Joe, and 
Sarah are faced with a new set of numbers. Mil­
lions of total cases, worldwide. Thousands of peo­
ple dead. There are numbers that measure the 
success of their state’s responses to the pandemic; 
there are numbers that measure the likelihood 
that someone they love will die. A 20% increase 
in New York City hospitalizations with each new 
day; 4,600 patients on ventilators in New York. 
Two to six weeks for patients to recover. There are 
numbers to guide them when they go outside. Six 
feet of separation. Three hours of virus viability in 
the air. There are numbers that become routines. 
Five hours of Zoom class on Wednesday. Two 
masks for each twelve-hour shift. With Universal 
Pass, their contributions to classes won’t become 
numbers too. 
- Mara Hoplamazian is a senior 
in Grace Hopper College 
APRIL 2020


**Title: NO PLACE**
**Author: KO LYN CHEANG**
**Page number(s): 8**

Matt Song ’23 had a sandwich, a plastic con­
tainer of pudding, Doritos, and a bag of fudge 
stripes for lunch one day in late March. The dining 
halls were closed. His friends were gone from cam­
pus. He ate alone behind the stone and concrete 
walls of Morse College. Without bicycles littering 
the courtyard and students crowding the common 
room, the space is cavernous. As of April 10, he is 
one of ninety-nine students who are remaining on 
Yale’s campus after the University asked all under­
graduates to return home for the rest of the semes­
ter on March 14. 

Yale hired a group of local movers to help the 
fifteen first-years remaining on campus move their 
belongings from Old Campus to residential col­
leges, where they’ll reside for the rest of semes­
ter. On March 19, the overworked movers shifted 
Matt’s boxes to Morse College. Among his posses­
sions were a microwave, packets of frozen food (“In 
case Yale Dining is not feeding me,” he explained), 
and his books. Matt, like all students who remain, 
has swipe access only to the gates and entryways 
of his college, the kitchen, and Trumbull College, 
where his meals are distributed. Twice a day, Matt 
picks up his meal in a brown to-go bag provided 
by Yale Dining. He makes it a point to have his 
dinner outdoors, in the vacant Morse courtyard, to 
feel more normal. 


How can you return home when there is 
no straightforward answer to the question of where 
home is? Evacuations from college campuses, 
shelter-in-place orders, and travel restrictions have 
forced people to decide where they will hunker 
down for the long haul. But a significant minority 
of students do not have a place to go. Foster youth, 
LGBTQ+ individuals living in hostile home envi­
ronments, and international students are particu­
larly vulnerable. Yale is allowing students to remain 
on campus for a limited number of reasons: if 
they’re from CDC Level 3 countries, emancipated 
from their parents, international students affected 
by travel restrictions, or students who would be in 
unsafe living conditions if they left. After speak­
ing to three Yale students who chose to not return 
home, I realized that home could be a place of our 
choosing, or a place that we have no choice but to 
return to. And if you are one of the lucky ones, it 
might be both.
—


**Title: LIKE HOME**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

When I left Singapore, my family’s home 
for five generations, to fly back to Yale in January, I 
told a friend that I was simply going from one home 
to another. After all, nestled in a hundred-year-old 
brick building in New Haven, was my sunlit desk, 
my books, my towels and sheets, my spare contact 
lenses, and my favourite stuffed bear. Home was a 
feeling. It was swipe access into dining halls and 
Monday dinners with my debate team. It was meet­
ing kind-eyed Muslim leaders in New Haven for an 
article I was writing. It was knowing which cubicles 
in the Sterling Library hold shelves had the good 
seat cushions and which were best for a cry. 

But over spring break, while I was in Mex­
ico, I was banned from reentering the United 
States because I had been in Europe in the past 14 
days. I had celebrated my mother’s 60th birthday 
in the UK. Initially, I had planned to return to my 
off-campus apartment in New Haven to retrieve my 
belongings before returning to Singapore later in 
the month. But now, with only a duffel bag of sum­
mer clothes and none of my books, I scrambled to 
find flights to Singapore that did not layover in a 
U.S. airport. Chicago, Texas, New York, San Fran­
cisco—the biggest aviation hubs were now sealed 
off to me. Minutes passed and the earliest flight 
I could find left Mexico City in a week. Around 
Latin America, countries were closing their bor­
ders in response to a rising number of coronavirus 
cases. I did not know if Mexico would be next. I 
imagined being stuck in Mexico while flights out 
of the country were grounded. I wanted to cry. 

When I realised that I couldn’t board a 
plane taking me back to New Haven, I understood 
that home was no longer the warm feeling I got 
cycling down Cross Campus on the first day of 
spring. Home became a legal term, the only place 
I knew with certainty would always take me in. 

Only U.S citizens, permanent residents, 
and certain immigrant visa holders were permit­
ted to enter under the travel restrictions placed 
to manage COVID-19. As a student visa holder, 
I did not qualify. The Singapore Ministry of For­
eign Affairs had said that all Singaporeans abroad 
will be allowed to return home—they would never 
shut their borders to their citizens. Even though 
I was stranded in Mexico, my displacement was 
only temporary, a mere blink in the long view of 
life. I eventually found an Air Canada flight that 
would take me back home. But what about people 
without a passport, without citizenship, who shut­
tle between iron-clad borders every day, unable 
to find a place that would accept them? Refugees 
and stateless individuals are going to be among 
the hardest hit by the virus if they are left without 
access to healthcare and sanitation.

As I waited for my flight out of Mexico, 
I thought about why I was upset at this situation, 
even though I understood the strong necessity for 
travel restrictions. I realized I felt betrayed; Amer­
ica had softened me, deceived me. In the ease and 
freedom of life in her coffee shops, highways and 
gas stations, I grew too accustomed to thinking of 
her as my home. The welcoming how-are-you’s and 
cheerful smiles of her bus drivers and cashiers, her 
college professors and high schoolers, her watch 
engineers and religious leaders, had lulled me into 
complacency. I drank up what she had to offer and 
sank into her sheets each night believing I’d still 
have a place here tomorrow. This reminded me 
that I am in mere transit in this country. America is 
not my home, however much I want her to be.
Matt realized he hadn’t used his voice for a day. 
He has not had a conversation in person, hugged 
a friend, or spent time in someone else’s presence 
in over a week. Seeing a person on the street now 
strikes him as a noteworthy event. 

Around 11 a.m., he goes to Trumbull College to 
collect his paper-bagged meal. He sees a couple of 
other students like him picking up their meals; it’s 
one of his rare moments of human interaction in a 
day. He is the only Morse first-year still on-campus, 
“which makes me special and also lonely,” he said 
through a phone interview, laughing. 

At night, he walks around Yale’s unoccupied cob­
blestone-lined campus, alone, looking at the stars. 
Just two weeks ago he was with his friends, adjust­
ing to his first -year in a new country as well as a 
new school. Now, it is completely empty. 

When Matt first received the email asking all stu­
dents not to return to campus after spring break, he 
knew he wanted to stay in the U.S. He had lived 
in Shanghai since he was twelve, but the home he 
grew up in no longer belonged to his family. With 
his mother and grandmother in Michigan, and 
his father in Shanghai, it was simpler for him to 
stay on campus, as he’s from a CDC Level 3 coun­
try. Furthermore, flight tickets to Shanghai were 
expensive. It would have imposed a greater shock 
on his life to move back. 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Ko Lyn Cheang**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
As a Chinese student, he began to notice racist 
behaviour on the rise in the U.S. His friend from 
Shanghai told him that on the subway in Boston, a 
stranger began yelling at him to go back to China 
and to stop eating cats. “In America, it’s treated not 
only as a health problem but also a foreign attack,” 
Matt said. “Some people really do seem to think 
that Chinese people caused this.” He has begun 
to feel less at home in the U.S., less welcome and 
less safe in this country. “It made me miss being in 
China and made me miss that community of peo­
ple who knew what it means to have yellow skin,” 
said Matt. 

He has been trying to manage the stress of liv­
ing alone. He and his friends on campus have 
been practicing social distancing, and for him, that 
means near-complete social isolation. “A weird 
sense of hollowness sneaks up on you,” he said, “but 
for me it’s not like other people where it’s imme­
diate soul-crushing loneliness or boredom.” His 
mom wishes to visit him, but the travel from Mich­
igan to Yale would be too risky, especially because 
his elderly grandmother is staying with her.

On March 28, Matt was relocated to another col­
lege to make room for first responders dealing with 
the outbreak in New Haven. When I asked him 
where he would call home, he paused for a long 
time. “I think it doesn’t exist right now,” he said. 
“Because I feel like home is one of those things 
that only appears when you have a certain set of 
conditions met. It has to be a familiar space. It has 
to be a comfortable space. It has to have people you 
know and love and care about. There is no place 
that would feel like home if I was there right now.”

For Michelle ’22, whose last name has been 
omitted to protect her privacy, Yale is home. When 
the school told students to return home for the rest 
of the semester, she knew she wanted to stay.

Growing up in a sunny California suburb, 
Michelle had what she now describes as a difficult 
upbringing. In her parents’ house, studies always 
took precedence over socializing or play. They car­
ried with them a mindset forged by a childhood 
of poverty in China, forcing the children to finish 
every last scrap of two-day-old food waste, even if 
it was growing sour. And they didn’t shy from the 
use of a ruler or stick for discipline. “If it got leaked 
what was happening to me at home, I’d probably 
end up in foster care,” said Michelle. When she 
came home from school, it was always to an empty 
house. “I felt I really had to raise myself,” she said. 
“I feel bad for saying this, but the strongest ties to 
my house are almost purely financial.”

When she arrived at Yale in 2018, she instantly 
felt at home. Two-hundred-year-old Elm trees grew 
on Old Campus, elegant neo-gothic spires rose 
toward a bluebird sky, the stained glass windows 
glimmered in the sunlight. After being pressured 
by her parents to be pre-med in her first-year, she 
met peers that inspired her to pursue her interests. 
“I feel super liberated being here,” she said. She is 
now a Computing and the Arts major. She knew 
that it would be better for her mental health and 
happiness than if she were to return home to the 
Bay Area. “I see New Haven as more of the place 
that has brought me up in the correct sense.”


For fifty hours, I am in transit. At Mexico City 
International Airport, I try in broken English, using 
hand gestures, to ask a big-bellied man where I can 
find the airport shuttle to Terminal 1, where my 
flight out of Mexico would leave at 5:25 a.m. He 
does not understand me and points in some dis­
tant direction. Vision blurry, face hot, back aching, 
I wander the terminal where travelers snooze on 
metal chairs. Then, I see the words “sleeping cap­
sules” shimmering in the empty airport bay like a 
mirage. 

The woman at the counter of the small cap­
sule hotel pretends not to notice that I talk to her 
through tears. She gives me clean socks and leads 
me down a long, lightless hall where sleeping pods 
are stacked atop one another, glowing with blue 
neon light. I swipe my access card to unlock my 
pod and see the clean sheets, the pillows, the duvet. 
As I stand under the warm shower, I feel the day’s 
stresses dissolve from my greasy skin until all that is 
left is me, a lump of soft flesh. 

Travellers drift, faces covered by foam masks 
and hands rubbery with disposable gloves. There 
are old women being ferried to the gates in wheel­
chairs and small children being carried in their 
parent’s arms. It seems too normal. I wonder if they 
are going home.

I board a flight from Mexico City to Vancou­
ver. The plane is so empty that I can sleep lying 
down across all three seats in my row. I use Stephen 
King’s memoir On Writing as my pillow. The plane 
touches down over the desolate Canadian land­
scape and I see craggy, snow-capped mountains. 
For a moment, I am transported out of this human 
drama into the eternal world of stones, mountains, 
and the sky. They existed long before us and will 
certainly outlive us.

In Vancouver, the airport is emptier than usual 
and you can feel it. Canada had shut its borders 
to non-essential travel by foreign nationals. Only 
two staffers tend to the passengers making interna­
tional connections. When I sneeze into my sleeve, 
a short-haired Caucasian woman shoots a dirty look 
at me. She ushers her daughter along, distancing 
herself. 

As I watch two boys play football over an empty 
row of chairs, I call Sara, whose name has been 
changed to protect her privacy, to talk about her 
experience. 


Sara ’21 was sightseeing with her friend in 
Seville, Spain, when she received word that the 
Trump administration was considering a travel ban 
in Europe; she needed to book the nearest plane 
ticket back. 

Ticket prices had risen to as much as $18,000 for 
a one-way ticket from Madrid to JFK Airport, but 
she managed to book a one-way flight to London, 
and then a seat from there to New York. 

She calls me from Chicago, where she’s staying 
at a friend’s apartment indefinitely. She is from 
a CDC Level 3 Country and did not consider 
returning home. If she flies back, the U.S. might 
implement travel restrictions that would prevent 
her from returning to New York for her summer 
internship in finance. Without this internship, she 
will lose her chance at getting a full-time job offer. 
“My family is very worried about me, but I don’t 
think they necessarily want me back because they 
know how much my job means to me,” Sara said. 
Although she is a foreign student, a “non-resident 
alien”, in the United States, and like me, cannot 
call it her home, it is home to her ambitions, her 
dreams, her future.

“I think the impact on international students is 
present in a way that isn’t always recognised,” Matt 
said. 

The sense of displacement, Matt explained, 
accompanying isolation from one’s family, can be 
dangerous for the mental health of these students. 
Now, he is passing time by writing poems. In one, 
he asks, “Homecoming, coming not. / Who knew 
celebrations stopped for breath?”


Boarding the plane from Vancouver to Tokyo, I 
see dozens of Japanese students returning home. 
False eyelashes and fair skin peek out from beneath 
their face masks. I can tell it is a flight full of Japa­
nese students because hardly anyone has put their 
seat down—they are acculturated to be consider­
ate. I feel guilty for lowering my seat as far as it 
can go; America has inflected my behaviour with 
unabashed individualism. 

From Tokyo, I fly to Singapore. The plane is less 
than a quarter full. I count only nineteen heads in 
my cabin. Soon, international flights to Singapore 
will dwindle to no more than a few a day. By then, 
I hope that my friends will all be safely sealed into 
their homes, certain they’ll have a place to wait out 
the pandemic. 

I think of how the virus is encouraging coun­
tries to put up borders and bans in the interest of 
national security. But when Vietnam stops export­
ing rice and Europe hoards medical supplies, rice 
bowls in Asia may go empty; hospitals in devel­
oping countries will suffer. I remember the first 
day of international orientation at Yale, when I 
climbed the hill to the planetarium to watch the 
solar eclipse with my new friends from Kenya and 
Malaysia, and Taiwan and Indonesia. We squinted 
at the burning orb through a pinhole camera, and I 
thought of how this coin-sized star illuminates not 
only the seven continents we call home, but our 
entire solar neighbourhood. I wonder when I will 
meet these people again. 

When I said goodbye to my best friend and travel 
partner in Mexico, arms wrapped around him, 
tears seeping into his shirt, he told me that he will 
see me back home—our real home, not the one 
where we can be barred from reentry. Yes, I say, our 
home, as if to remind myself that it is a real place. 
As the plane descends over Singapore, I see the 
narrow river of lights lining the causeway to Malay­
sia. Our closest neighbour closed her borders just 
days before. The aircraft grounded in the airport 
wink at me; they were once bound for a different 
destination. To them, Singapore is just a port of 
transit. To me, it’s my only home. 

- Ko Lyn Cheang is a junior in Grace 
Hopper College
APRIL 2020


**Title: ‘587’**
**Author: Kellen Silver**
**Page number(s): 12**

‘587’
- Kellen Silver is a senior 
in Pierson College
Design by Brian Chang 



**Title: PROFILE THE SURVIVOR**
**Author: Caitlin O’Hara**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
P R O F I L E
THE SURVIVOR
BY CAITLIN O’HARA
After an encounter on the New Haven Green, an unlikely friendship sparks between 
a visiting student and longtime disability rights activist Elaine Kolbe.
Through my camera’s viewfinder, I could scarcely 
make out someone signing ‘I love you’ to me in 
ASL among the throngs of supporters at New 
Haven’s climate rally in September 2019. I put my 
camera down and saw Elaine Kolb beaming as she 
approached me, a faint squeak audible as her power 
chair rolled across the New Haven Green. She had 
a ‘BLACK LIVES MATTER’ button on her shirt, a 
rainbow-printed 
ban­
dana tied around her 
neck, peace sign neck­
laces to gift to pass­
ers-by, and a sticker 
reading 
‘DISABLED 
AND PROUD’ on the 
back of her wheelchair.
I figured she must 
have noticed me point­
ing the camera in her 
general direction and 
decided to pose for a 
photo with the ‘I love 
you’. After a brief self-in­
troduction, she began 
talking about her experience living with a disabil­
ity. “There’ve been many times when people—total 
strangers—came up to me and asked, ‘Were you 
born that way?’” she said to me. I wasn’t sure how 
to respond to her sharing something so intimate 
even though we’d just met. She broke my silence 
and carried on, “You know what my reply to them 
is? ‘Well, actually no. When I was born, I was a 
lot smaller!’” She burst loudly into laughter, and I 
chuckled politely. I couldn’t help but wonder how 
she confessed a hard truth and laughed afterward, 
combatting insensitivity with humor. 

She reached into a purple and orange haversack and 
handed me a sheet of freshly printed song lyrics. I asked 
if she had written them, and she pulled out a whole 
book of songs she authored. She sang one of them to 
me. Her voice was  beautiful—soulful and resounding. 
Elaine flipped to her biography in the songbook and 
handed it to me. I skimmed 
through it, but found myself 
re-reading one sentence: 
“In September 1977, Elaine 
was stabbed in the back by a 
mugger on the street, result­
ing in a spinal cord injury.” 
She was 28 years old. 


Elaine grew up watching 
civil 
rights 
demonstra­
tors 
on 
television 
in 
the 
1950s 
and 
1960s. 
“I always admired the 
ones that were willing to risk great things for pos­
itive principles that would help people… And so 
part of it was just as soon as I had a chance to do 
it, I started doing it. It seemed [like] a natural thing 
to me.”
In high school, Elaine gave a speech against the 
Vietnam War; in college, she directed her school’s 
volunteer program and helped the new Black Stu­
dent Union organize a Black arts and music festival. 
She’s since participated in demonstrations and writ


ten dozens of songs about climate change, wom­
en’s rights, disability, and more. She aptly describes 
herself as  “a disability and diversity rights artist/activ­
ist, singer-songwriter, performer, and grass-roots 
organizer.” (She also describes herself as “a fat, old, 
ruddy-white dyke, driving a 6-wheeled power wheel­
chair, flying a rainbow flag, with a squeaky wheel.”) 
Elaine has been arrested 27 times in the course of 
her 53 years of activism work—including once with 
the new Poor People’s Campaign - A National Call for 
Moral Revival. Mostly, she practices non-violent, civil 
disobedience with the American Disabled for Atten­
dant Programs Today (ADAPT) and Not Dead Yet. In 
2017, she was arrested along with four other disability 
rights activists for refusing to vacate the governor’s 
office in Hartford, in protest of budget cuts affecting 
communities in need—including the disabled. She 
was also arrested several times in the struggle to get 
the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) passed. It 
was thanks to the ADA that disability access routes 
were installed at Savin Rock Park, where we met for 
our interviews. 

Not Dead Yet fights against assisted suicide for dis­
abled persons. While people on one side of the debate 
see assisted suicide as a right and exercise of patient 
autonomy, most disability rights advocates see it as a 
deadly form of discrimination. Their work combats 
the manifestations of what Elaine and other disability 
rights activists call disabiliphobia—the fear of disabil­
ity expressed by the disrespect for, prejudice against, 
and distancing from people with disability. Elaine 
explains that disability is the only minority that any­
body can join at any moment, whether through illness 
or accident. “Most non-disabled people have a really 
difficult time because of their fear of becoming dis­
abled themselves.”
This fear has led others to say hurtful things to 
Elaine.  “People will say to me, ‘Oh Elaine you’re so 
amazing, you’re so brave! You go out there and do 
everything, and if I was like you, I’d rather be dead.’ 
They think they’re complimenting me that I’m so 
brave, that they’d rather be dead than be me? This is 
not a compliment!” She laughs in exasperation, then 
alludes to the assisted suicide of disabled people, “This 
is why so many of our people get dead!”
At this point, I start to feel a little uncomfortable—
this fear of life with a disability has crossed my mind 
before. We are sitting in Jimmie’s Restaurant, and it’s 
crowded. I take an anxious sip of my latte and avert 
my gaze, watching the other customers eating their 


seafood platters and burgers instead of looking at 
Elaine. But she admits she once had this fear, too: “I 
did not understand and appreciate how much of my 
identity was tied up in my physical capacity and how 
deeply I feared having a physical disability where I 
couldn’t run… once I couldn’t run anymore, I really 
was more vulnerable.” Recounting the struggles she 
faced adapting to the injury, she shares, “I had to 
also rebuild a way of being confident and being able 
to travel in the world by myself… when you have a 
visible, obvious disability, it’s like you have a flash­
ing neon sign on your forehead that says ‘Easy Vic­
tim! Come and get it!’” I think back to that image 
of her when we first met, with her rainbow flag and 
scarf and loud stickers and buttons (and she’s always 
dressed that way). She sure had confidence, but 
maybe it was out of necessity.
Despite her accomplishments, Elaine is still hard 
on herself. “I feel guilty that I haven’t done more. 
And I’ve been a compulsive overachiever…with this 
deep-seated sense of guilt and shame that I deserve 
to be punished. Whatever recognition I received I 
would have to find a way to punish myself to coun­
terbalance it.”
She tears up slightly as she says this, before laugh­
ing loudly again—exactly as she did when we first 
met. “This is very complicated!” I think back to how 
she told me she experienced her first hysterical out­
burst at age twelve, yelling between her sobs, “I hate 
my mind!” Her teacher then, Ms. Otruba, sat and 
cried with her. “I don’t know if I would still be here 
except that she cried with me and she said, ‘Elaine, 
you have a beautiful mind.’”
“I can point to certain things in my life, that with­
out them, I don’t know how I could have survived… 
I was given these gifts, or these people appeared at 
just the right time or things just happened a certain 
way and you know, a slight variation and I would 
have been gone; I would have just been lost.” Specif­
ically about her stabbing, she tells me, “as bad as it 
was, it was as good as it could be.”
I’m almost relieved by how much Elaine has to say. 
After all, how do you respond to someone who con­
fesses after having met you two weeks ago that, as 
a troubled teen, she might have spiraled into drug 
use if then she had access to heavy drugs; who was 
severely ostracized upon coming out as a lesbian in 
the 1970s; who survived two traumatic rapes; who 
holds your hand while recounting the deaths of 
partners, family and friends; who was stabbed half 
a block from her home at age 28? I couldn’t find the 
right words to return her vulnerability and strength. 


Two interviews later, I knew so much more about 
Elaine. She deliberately keeps her wheel squeaky 
because of a promise she made to a visually impaired 
friend (who could place her more easily in space). She 
has two cats named Izzy and Bonnie-boy who “help 
lessen tactile deprivation.” She is a woman of confi­
dence coupled with a sense of inadequacy; loudness 
coupled with silence; profound loss coupled with a 
sense of being blessed. 
The more Elaine shared with me, the more she 
asked about me in return. I told her about my parents 
and older brother back home, about how I aspired to 
be an OB/GYN catering to the healthcare needs of 
marginalized populations, and about what I loved to 
do, like embroidery and theatre. Hearing this, Elaine 
invited me to participate in a community theatre piece 
about disability and difference with her and four oth­
ers. It was the second installment of the Hear My Soul 
Speak series—a set of plays devised around various 
themes of social justice, produced by the Elm Shake­
speare Company. Despite having to miss rock climb­
ing practices in order to attend rehearsals, I agreed to 
participate—something just told me it’d be worth it. 
And it was. We performed a series of scenes depict­
ing how the disabled are commonly discriminated 
against, and offered do’s and don’ts on interact­
ing with the disabled. To top things off, we led the 
crowd in a song that Elaine wrote in 1981 (while on 
a Fulbright scholarship as part of the United Nations 
International Year of Disabled Persons) about the 
institutionalization of the disabled. Following the 
performance, Elaine and I met for meals, shared 
an hour-long phone call, and exchanged dozens of 
emails. Over time, that stranger I encountered on the 
New Haven Green became my trusted confidante and 
greatest giver of advice. She walked me through the 
doubts I was having about myself at school, guided 
me through my then long-distance relationship, and 
never failed to remind me to wear layers (something 
I wasn’t at all used to, coming from equatorial Singa­
pore). She had predicted it in one of her first emails to 
me, dated October 1, 2019: “while I am old enough to 
be your grandma, I feel like we are sisters ;-)”.



**Title: The New Journal**
**Author: Caitlin O’Hara**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
When Elaine came to watch one of my theatre pro­
ductions in February 2020, I teared up when I saw her. 
She sat right in front of the stage (of course), and after 
the performance, I proudly introduced her to all my 
friends there as “my New Haven Grandma.” She told 
me once that she was looking for a young person to 
build a connection with, and just as well, I had been 
searching for a deeper relationship with someone sig­
nificantly senior to me. Last year, my aunt passed away 
three months after we grew close. Since the day we 
met, Elaine has reminded me of my late aunt. 


Elaine and I thought we’d share many more meals 
before my departure from the United States in May, 
when my year-long visiting program at Yale would end. 
But COVID-19 washed up on American shores, and 
my plans changed dramatically. I had to return home 
two months earlier than anticipated. I hastily typed an 
email on a Friday night asking to meet her on Sunday. 
I was anxious about seeing her, since she was turning 
71 this year and the coronavirus disproportionately 
affects older people. We decided to compromise and 
meet as soon as possible to minimize the chances of 
me contracting the disease beforehand. This time, she 
invited me to her home. “Mi casa su casa,” she replied 
on Saturday, “YOU are my whole agenda tomorrow.”


She warned me prior to our meeting that she had 
“inherited rat pack syndrome from both sides of her 
family.” And true enough—a corner of  her apartment 
was stacked almost floor to ceiling with cardboard 
boxes and keepsakes. But Elaine knew her way around 
just fine, reaching into cardboard boxes and pulling out 
one memento after another. A printed scarf emerged 
from a box, a gift she received from three Vietnamese 
friends she met in Cuba in 1971 on the third Vencer­
emos Brigade (which sends delegations to Cuba to 
work in solidarity with Cuban workers). We listened to 
her songs on the many CDs she had recorded, Elaine 
singing along live, almost perfectly on-key. As we sat 
in comfortable silence, I gazed around her apartment 
in admiration; it archived 71 years of a life well-lived, 
a life full of what Elaine calls “backhanded blessings.” 


A sense of finality hung in the air throughout our 
meeting that day – I knew we’d have to say goodbye. 
We walked on the boardwalk at Savin Rock Park and 
sat out at the pier till our hands grew numb from the 
cold, rushing wind, as if doing so would make each 
minute longer. She treated me to an Irish Coffee and 
molten chocolate lava cake at Jimmie’s Restaurant and 
saw me off to my Uber after a long, bittersweet hug. 
The last image we have of each other is us signing “I 
love you” as the car drove away. 
– Caitlin O’Hara is a visiting 
junior from Singapore.


**Title: Morning**
**Author: Jack Delaney**
**Page number(s): 17**

Morning	
   ladies through
their poses              pages upon
pages of peace              which I
flip quickly as	             morning
clouds burn up                as gas
where in his wisdom   flipping
 is talk of love 	
  yawning
morning lifts her	
          legs
coffee’s ready       I am the only
one awake 	
            like Allen
while steamships    carry on in
poses	          arms thrown back
the waking smell 	
         I am
awake                       asking sink
where’s that	             soft name
in all this        	              morning
gratitude for life          the taste
is sweet            I added nothing
the ships 	
	
         wait
like ladies reaching      through
top-flaps of white tents      I am
flipping 	
               footfalls 
father  mother  sister        other
              morning
coffee’s ready             the clouds 
burn as gas	
	
        there
are many names	
         blue
black silver	
                   Allen
none	               of them is right.
- Jack Delaney is a first-year 
in Pierson College and an 
Associate Editor of The New 
Journal 


**Title: a cave**
**Author: Jordan Cutler-Tietjen**
**Page number(s): 18**

a cave
Cry three nights in a row
and you win a prize. You’re blindfolded
and driven to the nearest cave.
Cup your hands,
shower yourself with cave water.
And explain yourself. 
One of the nights might come easily – 
I watched a boy sing an old woman’s song, 
for instance, or I’m afraid 
it’s over soon. But to speak the others 
you must stumble into the cave pool
and swim laps, breast-stroking into the dark 
and glittering tunnel and back to the mossy
entrance, and each lap you’ll need 
to swim deeper and stronger, and 
though you wouldn’t admit it
to your rational friends, you imagine 
the eyes and the brain might look like this,
might be connected 
by unwept tears like this, 
and you’re shocked when your hand smacks 
the back wall and you follow the echoes
and you trace the perimeter and 
dripping over the moss 
you cannot find the mouth. 
- Jordan Cutler-Tietjen is a senior 
in Jonathan Edwards College



**Title: THE STUDENTS WHO STAYED**
**Author: ELLA GOLDBLUM**
**Page number(s): 19-21**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
APRIL 2020
 19
THE 
STUDENTS 
WHO 
STAYED
Yale’s campus stands empty, and 
the students who remain face a 
new, isolated reality.
BY ELLA GOLDBLUM
Antonio Cilibrizzi ’23 is reading Madame Bovary—
over and over again.
On March 12, Dean Chun sent an email to the Yale 
community asking that students leave campus “if at all 
possible.” Yalies scattered all over the globe, boarding 
flights in a hurry and leaving behind the majority of 
their belongings. Antonio, however, belongs to a group 
of students with “exceptional circumstances”—inter­
national students whose home countries are under a 
Level-3 CDC travel advisory, emancipated students, 
and others with special permission from the Yale Col­
lege Dean’s Office, roughly 200 total—who are allowed 
to remain on campus until the end of the term. 
For this group, the physical world is unchanged; they 
have remained in the same location all throughout 
the spring semester. Yet the pandemic has suspended 
campus life. These students confront challenges that 
wouldn’t have made sense two months ago, like how 
to keep in touch with quarantining families across the 
globe, or how to “social distance” when getting takeout 
meals in the Trumbull College dining hall.


The same week that Dean Chun sent students home, 
New York City began setting up field hospitals for its 
design by Natasha Gaither 


 20
“"ON THE GROUND, YELLOW 
CAUTION TAPE MARKS EVERY 
SIX FEET, AND  HAND 
SANITIZER DISPENSERS 
AWAIT USE."”
over ten thousand COVID-19 patients. Italy reported 
record death tolls on two consecutive days, and the 
number of worldwide coronavirus cases surpassed 
300,000.
Already in late March, the pandemic could be felt 
everywhere, including in New Haven, where small 
businesses shuttered and tens of thousands of residents 
filed unemployment claims in just four days. Payne 
Whitney Gym, once a space for Yale athletes and com­
munity pool goers, was converted to a temporary med­
ical facility. 
Antonio is a first-generation, low income student 
whose academic resources would be limited at home. 
He plans to return to Anzi—his small town of 1,000 in 
Italy—by early May. When he goes home, he will be 
required to self-isolate in his grandmother’s house for 
fifteen days. 
Antonio’s father works at a hospital in Italy. Anto­
nio worries about him, though he knows his dad is 
extremely cautious about the virus, “disinfecting every­
thing he touches.” Though Italian citizens are worried 
about hospital overcrowding, Antonio says, he feels 
more concerned in the United States, where people 
are denied testing and healthcare altogether. “I have a 
lot of reservations about this country as a whole, and its 
systems,” he says. “I think healthcare is an unalienable 
right.”
He also wishes Yale would use its gargantuan endow­
ment to assist students during the pandemic. Approx­
imately one in five Yale College first-years and soph­
omores qualify for a Federal Pell Grant, and families 
on full financial aid operate on the assumption that 
their college students will receive University-sponsored 
food and housing. Even for students who can safely 
go home without endangering their health, these con­
cerns remain. 


Twice a day, Antonio traverses the empty campus 
to pick up Smart Meals in Trumbull, which consist of 
non-perishable foods in brown paper bags. He describes 
the meals as “unhealthy” and “a little sad.”
In Trumbull, the only dining hall still open, the din­
ing hall workers wear masks, and most of the students 
do, too. On the ground, yellow caution tape marks 
every six feet, and hand sanitizer dispensers await use 
after students swipe into the dining hall. Students are 
not allowed to exit the same way they came in; they 
do U-turns through a passage of rearranged tables and 
chairs to avoid physical contact. 
“It’s hard to get used to it because you don’t stand 
there and talk to people, you just kind of swipe in and 
keep walking, six feet behind the people in front of 
you,” says Nicholas Ruiz-Huidobro Magdits ’21, who 
stayed on campus after a shortened spring break trip in 
order to protect his immunocompromised father and 
sister in Virginia. “There’s one dining hall worker, Leo, 
who always talks to me, so it’s nice to still have some 
human interaction.”
Recently, Nicholas and another friend studied for a 
class in the Trumbull courtyard’s lawn chairs together, 
six feet apart—a welcome departure from his relent­
less daily routine. He says it’s important to take a break 
from staring at the wall. Other times, solitude prevails. 
All residential college common spaces have closed, 
and Yalies on campus are not allowed to let other stu­
dents into their colleges. 
“I ran into somebody I knew a few days ago, and she 
stopped and said hi, but there wasn’t really much to say, 
so we just kept walking,” says Nicholas. 
In downtown New Haven, people are still taking 
daily strolls to pick up delivery from restaurants, cross­
ing to the other side of the street to avoid one another. 
The same group of four-wheelers drives down Elm 
Street at late hours, and when Nicholas tries to sleep, 
he hears the usual sirens of ambulances. He compares 
the everyday quarantine atmosphere to that of an aver­
age Sunday morning in the Elm City: hushed, but still 
alive.
“New Haven doesn’t die and become a ghost town 
when Yale students leave,” he says. “The only differ­
ence is that Wednesday and Saturday nights are a little 
quieter on York Street.”
Outside Nicholas’ window, he can see a beautiful 
view of Broadway and Elm Street. For a second, it is 
almost normal. “What surprises me is how easy it is 
to just kind of forget that anything’s happening, if you 
don’t look at the news,” he says. 
When he walks outside his bedroom, though, he can 
no longer hear the sound of video games from the dorm 
across the hall, and he remembers all that has changed. 


Valerie Nguyen ’22, another student who stayed on 
campus, is keeping herself occupied inside: composing 
music, drawing, and taking on “home improvement” 
projects in her Pierson College suite, where she’s 
THE  NEW  JOURNAL


 21
“"THE WAY WE’RE FEELING 
RIGHT NOW IS VERY 
EXISTENTIAL. EVERYBODY 
HAS TO WORRY ABOUT 
THEIR SURVIVAL."” 
accompanied by one of her suitemates. 
“I’m at least half an introvert,” she says. “So I’ve 
always had stuff to do.” 
Valerie’s entire family is across the globe in Hanoi, 
Vietnam. She’s concerned about her parents in Hanoi, 
but they’re much more worried about their daughter in 
New Haven.
“I just assumed that Yale would take care of me, and 
that I’m more safe here than anywhere else I could be,” 
she says. “But people back home were really worried 
about me, because New York is a shit show right now.”
In New Haven, Valerie witnesses colossal change. 
She rides her bike to Cross Campus and to Benjamin 
Franklin and Pauli Murray Colleges, and sees how 
empty they are. She never forgets to bring a mask with 
her, and in the supermarket, she has started wearing 
gloves. She has some friends from the international 
student community still on campus, but she can’t see 
them. It is hard and strange to be alone together.
Valerie is especially saddened by the emptiness of 
Cross Campus and the closing of beloved local busi­
nesses. The bubble tea shops were the first to go: Vivi’s, 
T-Swirl, and The Whale Tea. The majority of shops on 
Chapel Street and Whitney Avenue have shut down. 
Valerie had already planned to be on campus through 
the summer doing psychology research in a lab in New 
Haven. She holds out hope it will happen, but is brac­
ing for the possibility of cancellation. She had also 
planned to return to Vietnam to visit family and renew 
her student visa, which must be done annually. 
But as of Thursday, March 19, the U.S. Embassy and 
Consulate in Vietnam cancelled routine immigrant 
and nonimmigrant visa appointments. The next Friday, 
they announced that they were no longer accepting 
applications for visa renewal by mail for nonimmigrant 
visas, saying that they will “resume visa service as soon 
as possible.” Valerie says this new policy will not affect 
her as long as she doesn’t leave the United States, and 
her I-20—Certificate of Eligibility for Nonimmigrant 
Student Status—remains valid.
Acutely aware of the hardships low-income and inter­
national students face right now, Valerie joined the stu­
dent advocacy group in support of a universal grading 
policy for spring 2020. Even though she’s living in Pier­
son College, Valerie—a Statistics & Data Science and 
Cognitive Science double major—struggles to concen­
trate on Zoom lectures and seminars. But if she had 
gone back home, “healthcare access would’ve been 
shit,” she would have been forced to attend classes in 
the middle of the night, and she wouldn’t have had an 
internet connection for at least half a month.
“A lot of what we were advocating for was for the 
most affected demographic,” she says, and pauses. 
“And I guess I count.”
Yale’s decision to send students home invited discus­
sions about the physical university’s role in ensuring 
student well-being. Even beyond concerns about food 
security and housing, students who rely on Yale’s cam­
pus for services like therapy, students whose families do 
not accept their gender or sexuality identity, and stu­
dents who come from abusive homes, felt that they had 
been stranded without resources. 
“The one thing I kept thinking about was that there 
were other students who were very affected who could 
have benefited from staying, but they really couldn’t,” 
Valerie says, adding that the petition process for remain­
ing on campus could have been more transparent. In a 
March 12 email, Chun said he planned to work closely 
with residential college heads and deans to determine 
which students need to stay. But Neche Veyssal, former 
co-president of First-Generation Low-Income at Yale, 
told CNBC that she spoke to many students who were 
forced to move into friends’ off-campus apartments in 
New Haven when their requests to stay at Yale were 
denied.
“The way we’re feeling right now is very existential,” 
says Valerie. “Everybody has to worry about their sur­
vival. But I wish the administration was a little more 
decisive.”
Antonio, too, finds it harder to concentrate on aca­
demics amid mental health struggles, fears for his fam­
ily, and forays into the news. 
“I understand that it’s not a priority these days,” he 
says. “Even if we try to make it a priority, I think we 
would still struggle so much. It’s not just about socio­
economic factors, but also mental effects of quaran­
tine.”
Yet Antonio enjoys being alone. He does yoga by him­
self and laughs at his own jokes. He reads a lot—books 
matter a great deal to him—and has been returning to 
the lessons of Gustave Flaubert’s Madame Bovary. He 
says the book reminds him how to cope when reality 
does not match up with his ideals, a prescient lesson 
during quarantine.



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Ella Goldblum**
**Page number(s): 22**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
He does miss hugging and kissing his friends, 
describing himself as an “extremely touchy” person. 
He was raised in a community where a high level of 
physical affection is the norm. Over Zoom and Face­
Time, much of our humanity—our physicality—is lost. 
But even through video chat, Antonio’s voice retains its 
characteristic warmth.
“I feel like being able to bear solitude is something 
that we should all aim for,” Antonio says. “It should be 
a pivotal thing in our lives, because it teaches us that 
we embrace the way we are.”
- Ella Goldblum is a first-year
in Saybrook College and 
a Copy Editor of The New 
Journal


**Title: SHELTERING WITHOUT PLACE**
**Author: Rachel Calcott**
**Page number(s): 23-24**

The only people one expects to see on the streets of 
New Haven this spring are masked figures shoulder­
ing grocery bags or hurrying to work in uniform, and 
the occasional spandex-clad jogger. But despite orders 
to shelter in place, at noon on April 7, Beatrice Codi­
anni, age seventy-one, walked the streets of Fair Haven 
handing out face masks to those who can’t source them 
elsewhere: the members of the Sex Workers and Allies 
Network, or SWAN.
Codianni’s red hair falls around a face whose upper 
half is taken up by a pair of thick-framed glasses, the 
lower half dominated by a wide smile. Codianni, who 
founded SWAN in 2016, has been working with sur­
vival sex workers for thirteen years. “We hand out sup­
plies, we do street based outreach. We have no fixed 
office site or anything like that,” she told me over the 
phone. Street sex work is often undertaken as a last 
resort, to support a drug addiction or as a response to 
an untenable home situation. SWAN has found that for 
the majority of survival sex workers, the alternative to 
finding a date is spending the night on the streets. Each 
week, as the rest of the nation isolates behind closed 
doors due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Codianni and 
her team load up on an assortment of toiletries, sex pro­
tection gear, and face masks, and head out to find their 
members on the streets.
In the last week of March, Connecticut Governor 
Ned Lamont issued an executive order: “Stay home; 
stay safe.” As New Haven approaches one thousand 
coronavirus cases, residents who can are sheltering 
in place. For sex workers still sleeping on the street, 
the consequences of being unable to find shelter this 
spring could be fatal; on the same day that Codianni 
went back out to Fair Haven’s sidewalks to distribute 
face masks, news headlines read that one in three of 
Boston’s homeless had contracted the virus. While 
COVID-19 is a threat to anyone unable to isolate, for 
survival sex workers, it has the added effect of com­
pounding issues of homelessness, discrimination, and 
pre-existing poor access to medical care. 
SWAN’s philosophy centers around harm reduction 
and prioritizes leadership by those who have expe­
rience in sex work. “Our motto is ‘Nothing about us 
without us,’” said Chloe Andree, a member of SWAN’s 
outreach team. Before the pandemic, SWAN provided 
a variety of services for survival sex workers—from 
self-defense and sexual health classes to ‘know your 
rights’ workshops and trauma informed therapy. But in 
the current moment, SWAN’s focus has narrowed to 
the daily struggle of keeping its members alive.
The formidable heart of the SWAN operation, Codi­
anni is a New Haven local and activist whose work has 
revolved around tackling issues of sexism and margin­
alization. “I’ve been an activist for decades,” Codianni 
told me. “I was part of the first women’s liberation 
center right here in New Haven… then the anti-war 
movement… and civil rights.” But in her early forties, 
Codianni’s interest in community activism led her to 
join the local board of directors of the world’s largest 
hispanic street gang, the Latin Kings. By the early 
1990s, when gang turf battles directed the attention of 
the FBI to the streets of New Haven, Codianni was on 
the gang’s Board of Directors.
“I was concerned about some of the kids in my neigh­
borhood who are Latin Kings… three of them commit­
ted suicide,” Codianni explained to me. She wanted to 
act as a liaison between the gang and the community, 
so she called up the gang’s Vice President. “He said, 
‘look, if you joined, they’d have to listen to you and you 
could get further if you were a member.’ So I joined.”
In 1994, Codianni landed in Danbury jail on charges 
of racketeering, and spent 15 years behind bars. “I’m 
part of the real women of Orange is the New Black. 
[The series] is a load of bullshit,” Codianni laughed. 
After nearly two decades of incarceration, Codianni 
returned to her native Fair Haven. She moved in with 
her son and tried to recover the threads of a normal life, 
maneuvering around the loss of her thirties and forties.
But in November 2016, Codianni had just walked 
into a City Hall meeting when she looked down at her 
phone to see the faces, names, and ages of 14 sex work­
ers splashed across local news feeds. They had been 
arrested in a sting operation. Codianni herself had 
engaged in survival sex work before her Latin King days 
to support a drug addiction. Aware of how the police’s 
disregard for the women’s privacy would shatter and 
endanger their personal lives, Codianni began advocat­
ing for the rights of sex workers. “I was in the closet 
and I said, it’s time to come out of the closet and make 
some noise.” 
Codianni went straight to the Chief of Police. “I 
talked about the collateral consequences of doing 
stings. You’re never going to arrest away sex work,” she 
argues. Following a public demonstration at City Hall 
decrying the stings, the New Haven police released a 
statement calling off future sting operations. But Codi­
anni knew more needed to be done to support New 
Haven’s survival sex workers.
Today, SWAN works with around 70 core mem­
bers who engage in its programming, and reaches an 
overall ‘caseload’ of 125 individuals—the majority of 
whom are houseless. “When we formed SWAN we got 
together and said, what do we want to do? How are we 
going to work?”  Codianni’s decision was informed by 
her own history of survival sex work, and her first-hand 
knowledge of the discrimination that these women 
face. “Some people want to form a sex workers union, 
but I said we have to go after the most vulnerable pop­
ulation. And that’s people doing survivor or street sex 
work.” 
In a pandemic, many face financial struggles—but 
survival sex workers are finding that all avenues to mak­
ing a living have been cut off. “They’re not getting dates 
with the same frequency that they were able to before, 
which was still not enough to make anywhere near a 
livable wage,” explained Evan Serio, a volunteer with 
the New Haven medical core and member of SWAN. 
The Connecticut state government’s reluctance to rec­
ognize sex work as a non-criminal avenue of employ­
ment has meant that sex workers find themselves ineli­
gible for unemployment benefits and unable to access 
community relief funds without a functioning bank 
account. So the members of SWAN are pursuing the 
only options remaining to them. “They’re going to find 
[work] any way they can, and folks have to do riskier 
and riskier things… we’re seeing all these kinds of tan­
gential terrible realities that have nothing to do with 
COVID-19 directly.” 
Sleeping on the street for nights on end can have 
dire health consequences. Feet swell under the com-



**Title:  Untitled**
**Author: Rachel Calcott**
**Page number(s): 25-26**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
APRIL 2020
 25
pression of shoes that rarely come off. Hand washing 
requires a hunt for an obliging restaurant’s bathroom. 
Lack of access to nutritious food increases the risk for 
type 2 diabetes. The alternating realities of weather 
exposure, and tightly packed shelters—which can have 
up to eight people crowded into four feet of space—
means that staving off infection from airborne viruses 
is difficult, if not impossible. And with the closure of 
homeless shelters, a severe situation has become a 
nightmare. “There’s folks that are living with condi­
tions that are going to be far exacerbated by the fact 
that they don’t have a place to get a steady meal, a 
place to get out of this cold, or being able to charge 
their phones and keep up on their appointments,” said 
Serio. “I’m just as worried about somebody’s on again, 
off again treated diabetes as I am about COVID.”

In most cases of COVID-19 infection, early hospital­
ization and medical care will mean recovery. But Serio 
is worried that systemic discrimination may prevent 
members of SWAN from finding their way to hospitals 
in time—and that those who do may experience a hos­
tile reception. 

Codianni told me about her own experiences at 
medical centers—stories of derogatory name-calling, 
being forced to wait longer than other clients. While 
the treatment of sex workers varies from clinic to clinic, 
there are practical measures that prevent equal access 
to testing. “Folks have to have a car to get tested at 
drive-through places. And people need to have state 
issued photo ID on hand and other documents in order 
to get the referral in the first place.” 

With the majority of survival sex workers unwilling 
or unable to seek out clinics, a few medical profession­
als have decided to take their services to them. Phil 
Costello, director of Homeless Care at Hill Health 
Center, is one of them. I asked him how COVID-19 
had affected his work. “Other than wearing face masks 
and gloves and PPE… we haven’t drawn back,” Costello 
said. “[The homeless] aren’t going to go to doctors and 
ERs… because of the humanity they feel they lose in 
those places.” As the majority of people sleeping on the 
street have a chronic cough, Costello relies on the inti­
mate task of taking temperatures to diagnose infection.

“I think a lot of people are going to do as they tend to 
always do,” Costello said quietly. “Just keep, you know, 
running and existing how they know how until they get 
so sick that an ambulance is called.” 

As the number of COVID-19 cases in New Haven 
climbs, the perennial problem of homelessness in the 
city has taken on a new sense of urgency. The prev­
alence of survival sex work in New Haven is tied to 
the city’s lack of affordable housing; nearly all of those 
who find themselves without homes resort to street sex 
work at some point to survive. Codianni’s main con­
cern is that the majority of SWAN’s members are still 
on the street—a problem that SWAN doesn’t have the 
resources to address. 

“The biggest thing is interior spaces, right?” Serio 
remarked. “There are a couple of agencies that house 
folks in the city, but there was still homelessness before 
this pandemic. They were already living with a real­
ity where homelessness exists, which means that there 
were already not enough interior spaces.” With home­
less shelters closing one after another to avoid acting as 
nurseries for the virus, the city’s three thousand–strong 
homeless population is being turned onto the street as 
New Haven Mayor Justin Elicker scrambles to find and 
fund the interior space necessary for the homeless to 
“shelter in place.”

Elicker faced two options: house the homeless in 
the city’s empty hotels, or ask the city’s universities for 
access to their thousands of vacant dorm rooms. After 
an initial request for Yale to open its doors to house first 
responders and firefighters—to which Yale’s answer was 
no, carefully packaged in statements of remorse and 
concerns about moving students belongings—the Uni­
versity eventually agreed to house 300 first responders. 
Elicker then turned to the city’s hotels to take in the 
homeless, including the street sex worker population. 


--- Page 26 ---

 26
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
But on April 6, the plan to house people in the Best 
Western hotel fell through. West Haven Police Chief 
Joseph S. Perno had requested close to five thou­
sand dollars to hire police officers for the  “safety and 
well-being of those housed,” and the city’s budget had 
buckled under the additional costs.

The policing of homeless housing presents a serious 
threat to providing shelter for those still sleeping on the 
streets. “They expect people to just come into the hotel 
room and leave everything behind,” Codianni mut­
tered. “No. Some of the people who are going to come 
in have mental health issues or drug use and they’re 
going to throw them out again.” Codianni explained 
that survival sex workers are often turned away from 
shelters due to continued drug habits or limited num­
ber of shelter beds. As the city considers how best to 
save lives, street medic Evan Serio is concerned that 
putting regulation before safety will be reflected in the 
death count. “Are you doing this to save people’s lives, 
from keeping them from getting sick or affected?” he 
asked, “Or are you doing it to try to change their way of 
life to meet your standards?”

I put down the phone after my call with Codianni, 
only to find it ringing again minutes later. I pick up and 
hear her New England accent on the other side: “Well, 
aren’t we going to talk about Yale?” 

New Haven and Yale have been in a muted dead­
lock over Yale’s ballooning real estate holdings and lack 
of tax payments for years, but the coronavirus has laid 
bare the cracks in the University’s relationship with its 
host city. To Codianni, Yale’s closed doors and empty 
dorm space are the marks of its continued disregard 
for New Haven’s needs. “They said they were setting 
up the [Lanman gymnasium] for the Yale community. 
Well you know what, this is the New Haven commu­
nity!” Codianni nearly yelled into the phone. With 
just a wall separating the empty dorms of Old Cam­
pus from homeless sleepers on the Green, the disparity 
has become impossible for organizations like SWAN 
to ignore. “People are out in the cold. It’s still cold out 
here. People are hungry. People need a place to go to 
the bathroom. Open your goddamn door, Yale.”

Codianni repositions the phone, and I hear the 
plastic rustle of groceries bags being put down on the 
kitchen table. As a member of the age group most 
threatened by the coronavirus, I asked whether she’d 
considered the risk of continuing her work. 

“I’ve cut down a lot,” she responded. “I mean, I used 
to be out there every day, and now I go… maybe three 
times in the last three weeks,” she said with a sigh. 
“But they’re not just members, they’re friends now. 
They are, you know, our tribe.” I asked her whether 
she’d taken up any hobbies (baking bread? gardening?) 
during quarantine. “Um, conference calls,” she replied 
with a rasping laugh. “I’m still working closely with the 
Global Health Justice Partnership, planning strategies 
of what we’re going to do, what we can do.”

The peak of the infection curve for Connecticut is 
expected around mid-May. Despite the work of the city 
and non-profits, the majority of the homeless popula­
tion and survival sex workers may weather that peak on 
street curbs, or gathered together around benches on 
the Green. But the members of SWAN haven’t resigned 
themselves to New Haven going the way of Boston. As 
the infection and death figures climb steadily, Codi­
anni sits at home and reaches out to anyone who will 
listen—governors, philanthropists, and reporters.

“And you can’t shut me up, as you just found out.”
- Rachel Calcott is a sophomore in
Branford College


**Title: OLDSMOBILE DELTA 88 & PROVINCETOWN HARBOR**
**Author: BEASIE GODDU**
**Page number(s): 27**

 27
Oldsmobile Delta 88 (top), Provincetown Harbor (bottom) 
design by Natasha Gaither 
OLDSMOBILE DELTA 88 & 
PROVINCETOWN HARBOR BY BEASIE GODDU



**Title: What It Takes To Stay**
**Author: Ko Lyng Cheang**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
 28
THE  NEW  JOURNAL
I meet Sujitno Sajuti on a Friday afternoon in late 
February. He greets me, impassive eyes appraising this 
Chinese girl who has entered his house of worship, a 
mosque in Hartford, Connecticut, to hear the story of 
what he lived through: he was targeted by U.S. Immi­
gration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) for deporta­
tion, spent 599 days in sanctuary, and finally was able 
to leave in the summer of 2019.

His face is lined with crevice-like wrinkles. He 
slouches a little. He came to this country when he 
was 32 years old. He is now 71 and has spent more 
than half his life here. And yet, he still has the threat 
of deportation hanging over his head. Even though he 
is free from sanctuary—where he took refuge in a Mer­
iden church as a form of protection against arrest and 
deportation—his struggle with his immigration status 
is far from over. His legal team is working to vacate 
his deportation order as we speak, and until they suc­
ceed, he will remain at risk of being removed from the 
place he calls home. This summer, two Yale seniors, 
Jordan Cozby and Christina Pao, are launching a dig­
ital archive about the interfaith sanctuary movement 
in Connecticut, featuring Sujitno’s story. And as the 
next U.S. presidential election fast approaches, undoc­
umented immigrants like Sujitno wait to see whether 
the past four years of increased deportations and ICE 
arrests will become a historical anomaly, a blight on 
the long arc of justice, or the new normal.


It is Ramadan in 2018. But Sujitno Sajuti and his 
wife, Dahlia, are not breaking fast with their friends 
from the mosque upon the evening call to prayer. They 
are in the meeting house of Connecticut’s Unitarian 
Universalist Church of Meriden, where Sujitno has 
been taking sanctuary from ICE agents since October 
9, 2017.

They share a small room, no bigger than ten feet 
across, on the second floor of an old farmhouse in 
the town of Meriden, Connecticut. They have a trun­
dle bed, dresser, desk, and closet. It is not their West 
Hartford apartment in a brick building with wrought-
iron railings that they have called home for the past 
twenty years, but they don’t have a choice. They must 
stay inside—Sajuti faces an ICE deportation removal 
order.

On Mondays, Thursdays, and for three days in the 
middle of the Islamic month, they fast. To keep his 
spirit strong, Sujitno reads the Koran. He memorises 
the Surah Ar-Rahman, a chapter in the holy book 
which calls for man to express gratitude toward Allah. 
He prays for justice. He and his wife wake every morn­
ing well before dawn, between 3 a.m. and 4 a.m., while 
a church volunteer sleeps in a cot downstairs, keeping 
vigil in case ICE comes knocking. The arrangement 
was made by the Chalice Sanctuary Team within the 
first day of Sujitno moving in. The team is a self-or­
ganised group of fifteen-odd church members who 
decided to contribute their time and resources to pro­
vide sanctuary to Sujitno.

While the couple washes their hands, mouth, nos­
trils, arms, head, and feet in accordance with the 
Islamic practice known as wudu, the volunteer sleep­
ing downstairs rises. On Sundays, while the congre­
gation meets in the sanctuary to sing Unitarian Uni­
versalist hymns and light the chalice, the couple rests. 
Unitarian Universalism is a liberal, non-doctrinal reli­
gion that emerged when two separate faiths with roots 
in early Christianity, Unitarianism and Universalism, 
consolidated in the second half of the twentieth cen­
tury. The church and the couple have developed a 
delicate rhythm to negotiate the differences between 
their faiths.

I spoke to Sujitno and five of the people at the core 
of the complicated, high-stakes endeavour to protect 
him from deportation, which has spanned multiple 
years and involved a legal team, more than a dozen 
church volunteers, fellow mosque members, and many 
well-wishers. The story of Sujitno Sajuti and the Mer­
iden church that sheltered him for close to two years 
is one of inter-faith empathy and the deep capacity of 
human beings to care for their neighbours.


Almost three years ago, on Monday, October 9, 2017, 
at 4 p.m., Reverend Jan Carlsson-Bull, then the minis­
ter of the Unitarian Universalist Church of Meriden, 
received a call from Reverend Paul Fleck, the pas­
tor who initiated the movement to declare sanctuary 
congregations in Connecticut. Fleck informed Carls­
son-Bull that Sujitno Sajuti was due to be deported the 
next day. He needed to find a place that would give 
him sanctuary, where ICE agents could not arrest him. 
The church’s Board of Trustees had voted to become a 
sanctuary congregation just weeks prior.

Immediately, Reverend Carlsson-Bull called for an 
emergency phone conference with the leaders of the 
congregation, including Nancy Burton, a midwife who 
would soon lead Sujitno’s sanctuary team, and several 
Connecticut immigration activists. By 8 p.m., they 
voted yes. The Unitarian Universalist Church of Mer­
iden would become an active sanctuary congregation, 
and Sujitno and Dahlia would be their first guests.

Within hours, the team brought in a cot, linens, tow­
els, and bathroom supplies from the church members’ 
homes and converted the empty second floor office 
into a bedroom.

Fourteen miles away, Sujitno Sajuti was pack­
ing in his apartment. Just days prior, his request for 
a stay of deportation had been denied for the second 
time. Before Donald Trump was elected, he had been 
granted repeated stays of removal annually from when 
the original deportation order was issued in 2004. But 
now, he was fighting to remain in the country under an 
administration that was aggressively acting on the Pres­
ident’s post-election declaration to deport two to three 
million undocumented immigrants from the country.

“Bring everything, quick, whatever we can bring,” 
he told his wife. They searched for the few hundred 
dollars they had saved from teaching Indonesian 
cooking in Connecticut but could not find it. They 
later found it hidden in their Koran. Sujitno brought 
clothes, books, and, most importantly, his immigration 
documents. Dahlia took her wedding ring and a gold 
necklace from her mother, who had passed away in 
1999 in Indonesia. Even though Dahlia was not at risk 
for deportation, she accompanied her husband.

At the church, Steve Volpini, a former reporter, 
 29
ex-Catholic and long-time acquaintance of Sujitno 
and Dahlia, helped them move their suitcases to the 
makeshift bedroom. Carlsson-Bull and some church 
members drafted a letter to the U.S. Attorney for the 
District of Connecticut and to the regional ICE office 
notifying them that Sujitno was in sanctuary with the 
Unitarian Universalist Church in Meriden.

At 11 a.m. the next day, barely awake, Carlsson-Bull 
held a press conference in the meeting room of their 
church—aptly called “the sanctuary.” Standing at the 
pulpit of the large room lined with windows, Carls­
son-Bull announced that Sujitno Sajuti, ordered by 
ICE to leave the country by 10 October 2017, would 
take sanctuary in their church for as long as necessary 
to prevent his deportation.

A band of a dozen-odd Unitarian Universalists were 
soon to become experts in giving sanctuary. Nancy 
would take the lead. Steve would take care of food. 
Diane and Maureen would organize shifts for over­
night duty—a team member would sleep in the church 
every night in case of unexpected visits by ICE agents 
or troublemakers. Richard and other members would 
do the couple’s laundry in their own homes. Sandy 
would set up WiFi for their guests. Peg and Carls­
son-Bull emailed and phoned Unitarian Universalist 
sanctuary congregations around the country to learn 
from their experiences. There was a lot of work to be 
done. They needed to raise funds and find doctors will­
ing to provide medical care to Sujitno if an emergency 
arose. “We weren’t sure how much risk we were taking 
as individuals and for the church,” Nancy said later. 
“But this was what we were going to do.”



The members of the Unitarian Universalist Church 
of Meriden were heroic in their last-minute effort to 
provide sanctuary to Sujitno. The question is, why was 
it necessary?

One part of the answer involves the status of sanctu­
ary institutions. ICE has an internal policy of not mak­
ing arrests in schools, hospitals, or houses of worship. 
But even though all houses of worship are, in princi­
ple, protected spaces, no mosque has been reported as 
having offered sanctuary to persons under threat from 
deportation as of 2018. Sujitno’s mosque in Hartford, 
the Muhammad Islamic Center of Greater Hartford, 
had considered giving sanctuary to him. “We would 
have been the first Masjid to be tested with the laws 
that were already in place,” Imam Kashif Abdul-Karim 
said, “We were afraid that the Patriot Act might create 
new rules, which would not offer him the same pro­
tections as if he was a Christian facility. And we didn’t 
want Sujitno to be put under a test. We wanted his 
safety first and foremost.”

The immunity held by individuals in sanctuary from 
ICE arrests is not legally enshrined. This fact makes it 
unclear how safe Sujitno would have been if he had 
taken sanctuary in his mosque instead.

Less than nine months prior, the Trump adminis­
tration had implemented the Muslim ban. But Imam 
Kashif and his wife had received death threats for being 
Muslim long before the ban, and were cautious of the 
possibility of anti-Muslim attacks. They decided that 
Sujitno would be safer in a non-Muslim house of wor­
ship.

The second part of the answer goes back to a law 
from 19 years ago, which first trapped Sujitno in the 
deportation order.

The Patriot Act, signed into law in 2001 by President 
George W. Bush, allows the government to use law 
enforcement to search homes or businesses without 
the owner’s consent and indefinitely hold suspects, for 
the purpose of countering terrorism. The act spawned 
the National Security Entry-Exit Registration System 
(NSEERS), which tracked the movement of mostly 
Arab and Muslim non-citizens. Like thousands of other 
immigrants in the US, Sujitno reported to the govern­
ment under this system. But this action directly led to 
him becoming known to ICE. That’s when he was tar­
geted for deportation.

When he reported for registration, his counsel failed 
to advocate for him. She never discussed his eligibility 
to stay in the country with the immigration officials. 
The Immigration and Naturalization Service staff ini­
tially denied him the right to have his counsel pres­
ent, but when they eventually allowed her to join him, 
the lawyer left early. Sujitno had to navigate the reg­
istration process alone. Sujitno was then served with 
a notice to appear that initiated removal proceedings, 
where his lawyer accepted a voluntary departure order 
on his behalf without fully informing Sujitno. There 
was no Indonesian language interpreter at the hearing, 
and the audio recording makes it clear that Sujitno did 
not comprehend what was going on.




**Title: Sujitno Sajuti and Dahlia's Sanctuary**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 31-33**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
By signing the order, he had committed himself to 
leaving the country by February 6, 2004. When he did 
not do so, his voluntary departure order was converted 
into a deportation removal order. This was the removal 
order that ICE acted upon when they threatened him 
with deportation in October 2017.
“It should be understood that this man was placed in 
removal proceedings because he voluntarily complied 
in 2003 with the US government’s rather shockingly 
Islamophobic special registration,” said Diana Blank, 
Sujitno’s lawyer. Today, Sujitno speaks of his decision 
to register with NSEERs with regret. “I try to follow the 
rules, but in fact, it’s not really as it is,” he said. “There 
must be something wrong.”


It was 1989 in Jakarta, Indonesia. Sujitno was work­
ing as a public health researcher and policy analyst in 
the bustling capital city. At all hours, one could hear 
the pedicab drivers tooting their horns, motorbikes 
rumbling with exhaust, and neighbourhood cats spar­
ring in territorial battles. Five times a day, the full-
throated voice of the Muslim call to prayer echoed 
through the streets, under highways, and in mosques, 
drawing the faithful out of their homes and workplaces 
to face mecca.

He lived with his wife, Dahlia, whom he had met 
at a wedding in Jakarta eight years prior. Dahlia was a 
librarian and, like him, spent most of her time in the 
library. She was studious, like Sujitno. She came from 
a strict family, like Sujitno. And neither of them had 
much experience dating. They immediately connected 
and grew close. “We told [each other how we felt] 
by our actions, it’s much better than words,” recalled 
Sujitno. “It’s not like in the films.” A year and a half 
later, they were married. 

With a Masters in Public Health from Columbia 
University, which he attended as a Fulbright Scholar, 
Sujitno enjoyed the privilege of an advanced degree in 
a country where only 2.3 percent of the population had 
a Bachelor’s degree and over half had no schooling. 
But it was not enough; his colleagues at the Jakarta 
research office asked him, “Why did you come home? 
Finish your PhD!”

In 1989, he arrived in Connecticut, a state where 
winter lasts a third of the year. It was a far cry from trop­
ical Indonesia. Eager to complete a PhD in medical 
anthropology, a small discipline at the time, Sujitno 
went to the University of Connecticut on a scholarship 
to study with one of the few medical anthropologists 
in the field. Research in medical anthropology, he 
believed, would give him a fresh angle from which to 
study public health, making him more employable. 
But before he completed his doctorate, his advisor 
took an early retirement. Without anyone to replace 
him, Sujitno couldn’t complete his doctoral degree. 
He tried in vain to find another advisor. 

I asked him if he considered returning to Jakarta at 
this point. “It’s too late, how can I go back to Indo­
nesia?” he replied. “If I go back without a PhD, I’d 
be nothing.” He believed that his supervisor at work 
would stall his career advancement if he returned. “It 
would have screwed up my career,” he said.

For the next three years, Sujitno finished his disser­
tation coursework, worked at supermarkets, and con­
tinued teaching language classes for Bahasa Indonesia. 
His student visa expired after he had to pause his stud­
ies, but he gained authorization to work in the States. 
He and Dahlia moved into an apartment in West Hart­
ford. She taught Indonesian cooking while he laid low 
until the national registration system for Muslim men 
was announced in 2003 and he came onto ICE’s radar. 
In December 2011, ICE agents arrested Sujitno at 
his apartment on the grounds of the 2004 deportation 
order against him. Under the Obama Administration, 
ICE agents were increasingly targeting undocumented 
immigrants. During the sixty-nine days that he was 
held in detention, he tried to remain positive and 
made dawah—an invitation to Islam—to his detention 
officers. He was released on 17 February 2012, having 
successfully filed for a stay of removal. For the next 
five years, he filed annually for renewals of his stay of 
removal, and they were granted each time. Then, Don­
ald Trump won the presidential election.

“When he went into sanctuary, he was working with 
authorization,” said Diana, his lawyer. “He was doing 
everything that was in his power to comply with the 
law, except returning to a country where he had no 
means of survival.”

Under the Trump administration, his stay of deporta­
tion was denied for the first time since 2011. He found 
another lawyer who had one last chance to file a stay of 
removal on 6 October 2017. It was denied. Three days 
later, he entered sanctuary. 



Overnight, the sanctuary team and its members had 
to figure out the nuts and bolts of how to sustain sanc­
tuary for their guests. They set up a Facebook page to 
advocate for Sujitno’s cause, wrote thank you notes to 
the donors, and met with the Meriden Police Chief. 
They checked whether their insurance policy would 
cover the added liability of having residents in their 
house of worship. Crucially, they learned what was 
required for ICE to enter their meeting house and pos­
sibly arrest Sujitno.

Sujitno’s situation was met with an outpouring of 
public attention and support. Unitarian Universal­
ist groups and well-wishers donated to the sanctuary 
efforts, providing Stop & Shop gift cards for Steve, who 
volunteered to buy the couple’s weekly groceries. “You 
have two scholars past normal retirement age who were 
being ejected from the country after being here for 
thirty years,” said Steve later. “The sheer unfairness of 
this really angered people and activated people.”

As the days turned into weeks, the sanctuary team’s 
efforts became routine. Every week, Steve would go to 
the church, ask the couple for their grocery list, chat 
with them for a while, and leave to buy the groceries. 
The couple ate vegetarian, and the weekly shopping 
bags would be filled with fruits and vegetables: aspar­
agus, dates, carrots, potatoes, onions, scallions, tofu, 
tempeh (if they had it), and various spices and seeds.

In time, the team purchased another fridge for 
Sujitno and Dahlia to use. Nancy’s book club spon­
sored a second trundle bed for the volunteers who slept 
in the church each night. The collective effort grew as 
other activists, Unitarian Universalists in the state, and 
members of Sujitno’s masjid, or mosque, contributed 
to the sanctuary effort. 

One Sunday soon after Sujitno arrived at the meet­
ing house, Reverend Carlsson-Bull led a sermon focus­
ing on loving your neighbour. “This isn’t an act of 
charity,” she said. “It was an act of being an ally and 
being in solidarity.”

And so they lit the chalice in the sanctuary of the 
farmhouse where they had, for many years, gathered 
each Sunday for congregation, a place that was now 
also a sanctuary for Sujitno Sajuti and Dahlia.



The symbol of the chalice has its origins in Lisbon 
during World War II, when a Unitarian Universalist 
Reverend named Charles Joy ushered Jewish, Roma, 
and gay individuals fleeing Nazi persecution to safety. 
He used a flaming chalice as a secret symbol to indi­
cate that a building was a place of sanctuary. When 
the time came for Sujitno’s sanctuary team to choose a 
name, it made complete sense that they use the symbol 
that had saved many lives half a century prior. And so 
Carlsson-Bull suggested the name “Chalice Sanctuary 
Team.” 	

Social activism and justice is written into the history 
of Unitarian Universalism. More than 177 Unitarian 
Universalist ministers and seminarians marched with 
African Americans along the fifty-four-mile highway 
from Selma to Montgomery in 1965, protesting against 
continued segregation and the disenfranchisement 
of African Americans. Of the two hundred thousand 
people who participated in the March on Washington 
for Jobs and Freedom in 1963, sixteen thousand were 
Unitarian Universalists. Early Unitarian Universal­
ists thinkers like Clarence Skinner and James Luther 
Adams espoused a vision for the faith that embraced 
liberal values, defended human rights, and fought to 
eradicate race and class-based injustices. 

The Unitarian Universalist Church of Meriden is a 
church of activists. Nancy Burton is on the board of 
the Universal Healthcare Foundation and is an advo­
cate for healthcare reform. Steve had been taking part 
in immigrant rights marches outside the federal court­
house long before Sujitno took sanctuary in the church. 
A group of 20 activists, including several church mem­
bers, filled the courthouse rows during every day of the 
2019 court appearances of Miguel Castro, an activ­
ist accused of assaulting two judicial officials. Steve 
explains that he was defending an undocumented 
child who was to be separated from their parent out­
side a courthouse. On one occasion, when the church 
members arrived, the prosecutor asked, “Is the posse 
here again?” 

“Most of us do not have deep pockets,” said Nancy. 
This is a church of midwives and school teachers, of 
factory workers and construction workers. But Nancy, 
like most of the others, was committed to upholding 
justice. Her favourite hymn, titled “We’ll Build a 
Land”, sings of captives going free. It imagines a world 
“Where justice shall roll down like waters, / And peace 
like an ever flowing stream.” 

As I listened to Nancy, I couldn’t help but wonder: if 
a small band of activists from a not-very-wealthy, work­
ing-class church were able to provide sanctuary to an 
Indonesian Muslim couple for 599 days, why couldn’t 
the United States, with its vast resources and diverse 
languages, allow the couple, who have spent thirty-one 
years building a life for themselves in this country, to 
stay? 



The mosque at Hungerford Street in Hartford is a 
handsome two-story house with a pitched roof and green 
trimmings—the sacred colour of Islam. In a large space 
where sunlight streams onto red and cream-coloured 
masjid carpet, over one hundred men gather every Fri­
day to participate in jummah, a sermon delivered in 
mosques before the Friday prayer. The small bedroom 
in the meeting house where Sujitno Sajuti spent his 
days in sanctuary at the Unitarian Universalist Church 
was to serve the same function as the mosque—a clean, 
well-lit place for prayer. On Fridays, Sujitno led the 
jummah for himself, Dahlia, and sometimes, Dahlia’s 
friends. He sang the adhan and the iqamah, the call 
to prayer, before beginning to pray. It was not an ideal 
arrangement, given that congregation is important to 
Muslims, especially during Friday prayer. But it was a 
necessary one.

In the Hartford mosque, white square tiles line the 
wudu rooms in the basement. Water flows from the 
tap as the members carry out the ablution. While 
in sanctuary, before praying and reading the Koran, 
Sujitno and Dahlia would make wudu in the kitchen 
sink on the first floor with paper towels instead. But 
when members of the church were around, they would 
retreat to their private bathroom to make wudu, unwill­
ing to invite confrontation by washing themselves in 
the kitchen sink. “Actually, it’s not okay to do wudu in 
the bathroom,” said Sujitno, explaining that the bath­
room is considered unclean, “but when you have no 
choice, it’s different.”

Sujitno and Dahlia maintain a strict adherence to 
ritual fasting. However, at the beginning of their stay in 
sanctuary, this practice caused confusion and misun­
derstanding with the sanctuary team members. “When 
I’m fasting I don’t like to have guests. We don’t want 
to be negative,” Sujitno explained. Fasting is not just 
about refraining from eating; it is also about maintain­
ing one’s spiritual focus. 

But as a result, the church members were unsure 
about when they could and could not talk to their 
guests. “There’s a lot of stuff we had to figure out as 
we went. They are Muslim, from another culture and 
another religious base,” said Nancy.

In the end, they decided to hang a small sign outside 
the couple’s bedroom door on days of fasting that read, 
“Our guests are fasting. This includes not focusing on 
material things and keeping the mind at peace. Please 
respect this tradition.”

Nancy and the team came to understand the deli­
cate balance that had to be struck between the couple’s 
needs and theirs. If they were fasting or praying, the 
team gave them space to practice their religion. Some­
times, they would hear Sujitno and Dahlia talking in 
raised voices, arguing like normal couples. Arguing 
was a normal part of life, and the team did not want to 
intrude on their privacy. Most of the time, the couple 
kept to themselves. They cooked, cleaned, and prayed.

“I have never known a more devout couple than they 




**Title: Sujitno Sajuti's Sanctuary**
**Author: Ko Lyn Cheang**
**Page number(s): 34-35**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
are. I think that was [how] both of them got through 
this ordeal,” said Steve. 


Sujitno is thin and sturdy, but was approaching sev­
enty when he entered sanctuary. The team worried 
that if he had a medical emergency and the team were 
forced to call an ambulance, he might end up arrested 
by ICE on the way to or at the hospital, as had hap­
pened to a ten-year-old girl in Texas. So they set about 
searching for a sanctuary doctor. When Sujitno needed 
eyeglasses, an optician came into the church to do the 
eye test and provide prescription glasses.

There were other moments of fear while Sujitno was 
in sanctuary. In March 2018, letters declaring April 3 
to be “Punish a Muslim Day” were anonymously sent 
to families, lawmakers, and businesses in the United 
Kingdom. The handout listed a cruel point system 
that rewarded attackers with points for committing 
hate crimes: verbally abusing a Muslim would grant 
10 points while torturing one with “electrocution, 
skinning, use of rack” would give them 250. Nancy 
called the Meriden police and spoke to a desk ser­
geant. She told them about the letters and explained 
that they had a Muslim couple in sanctuary at their 
church. “We would just appreciate a police presence,” 
she said. On Tuesday, April 3, the Meriden police sat 
in the parking lot of the church all day, keeping watch 
for potential attacks. “I was really really pleased. They 
really responded,” Nancy said. Thankfully, nothing 
happened. 

During their time in sanctuary, Sujitno and Dahlia 
became fearful that someone was watching them. 
“They were really somewhat traumatized whenever 
there was a fire engine that went by or a police car, 
flashing lights or something,” Steve said. “They would 
keep everything dark inside the church and look 
through the windows to see what was happening in the 
dark hours. Sujitno never so much as put a toe out­
doors, the entire time, nothing.”

ICE never paid the couple a visit during the 599 days 
they were in sanctuary, but they had clamped a bulky 
GPS monitor to Sujitno’s ankle. The officials monitor­
ing the ankle bracelet called at odd hours to check in 
on him, often early in the morning. “It seemed to me 
to be a form of harassment more than anything else,” 
said Steve. 

Recalling this experience in his apartment months 
later, Sujitno showed me sheets and sheets of yellow 
legal paper stapled together—this was his log, which 
he used to do calculations and keep track of when he 
charged the battery, and the time he expected the bat­
tery to run out. If the monitor ran out of battery, the 
officials would call him. Sujitno organized his pray­
ing, visits from his friends, and his meals around the 
ever-present ankle monitor. 


For most of his time in sanctuary, Sujitno Sajuti had 
an application for a U-Visa pending approval by U.S. 
Citizenship and Immigration Services, or USCIS. A 
U-Visa is a special form of status reserved for victims 
of certain crimes in the U.S. who have suffered sub­
stantial abuse, physical or mental. These victims must 
prove that they cooperated with law enforcement in 
the investigation or prosecution of the crime. His law­
yer, Diana Blank, saw it as his ticket to remain in the 
U.S., legally.

Shortly after Diana heard of Sujitno’s case in late 
2018, Alok Bhatt, a coordinator for the Connecticut 
Immigrant Rights Alliance who had supported Sujitno 
since he entered sanctuary, raised the possibility to her 
that Sujitno might be eligible for a U-Visa, since he 
had been a victim of armed robbery in 1995. Diana, a 
staff attorney at the non-profit organization New Haven 
Legal Assistance, immediately got to work with her legal 
team at the Yale Law School Immigrant Rights Clinic. 
They filed for a motion to reopen Sujitno’s deportation 
proceedings and vacate the order of removal on the 
basis of the U-Visa application. The team then applied 
for a U-Visa on Sujitno’s behalf in February 2018. The 
process took over a year and hours of work by his legal 
team, who are working on his case pro bono.

Finally, in May 2019, USCIS granted Sujitno 
deferred action, a protective status stating that Sujitno 
would no longer be a priority for removal proceed­
ings because he was deemed prima facie eligible for 
a U-Visa. The evidence was strongly in his favour. 
USCIS had issued a statement saying that the only rea­
son he was not being granted the U-Visa immediately 
was that Congress had set a cap of ten thousand on the 
number of visas that could be granted each year. The 


queue was several years long.

Nancy was at a faculty meeting at the Yale School 
of Nursing when she received a message from Diana 
Blank. “Please call me as soon as you can,” Diana said. 
“When you get that kind of message you assume it’s 
bad news,” Nancy recalled. She called Diana, who told 
her of the judge’s decision. At last, Sujitno was no lon­
ger at risk of imminent deportation. 

“It felt wonderful to know that you actually can make 
a difference,” said Nancy. “You know that old Marga­
ret Mead saying, that all you need is a small group of 
dedicated, committed people to really make change? 
It felt like we did.”

The last day of May 2019 was the warmest day of 
the week, and also the day Sujitno Sajuti would take 
his first steps outside the white farmhouse in which he 
had taken sanctuary for the past 599 days. He put on a 
black kufi, white shirt and grey jacket. Dahlia, with her 
penchant for wearing beautiful clothing, wore a bright 
green hijab and a matching embroidered baju kurung 
printed with flowers. She held the door open for him 
as he stepped into the sunshine. 

His first stop was an ICE office, where he would be 
unshackled from the ankle monitor he had worn since 
October 2017. From there, he would go home. 

For Steve, the moment when Sujitno left sanctuary 
was bittersweet. The couple had become such a fixture 
in the daily lives and thoughts of the sanctuary team 
members. They had shared many dinners and conver­
sations during late nights in the farmhouse. “We were 
losing him and he was losing us,” he said. Now, Steve 
doesn’t see Sujitno very often. But sometimes, when 
Sujitno needs a ride to the Hartford train station, he 
gives Steve a call. 

Nine months later, on a Friday morning a week after 
I first met him in the Hartford Mosque, Sujitno Sajuti 
and his wife are doing laundry in their white-carpeted 
apartment in West Hartford. The aroma of frying oil 
wafts from the kitchen, where Dahlia is cooking. In 
a spacious corner of the living room, a prayer mat is 
unfurled, facing mecca. A Koran sits on his crowded 
bookshelf. 

The journey of Sujitno and other people like him 
to gain legal protection and recognition continues. In 
his state of the union speech earlier that month, Don­
ald Trump reaffirmed his desire to restrict immigration 
into the country, declaring that “[t]he United States of 
America should be a sanctuary for law-abiding Ameri­
cans, not criminal aliens.” Sujitno, with his neat attire, 
staunch devotion to prayer, and measured manner, 
ought to meet even President Trump’s test of being a 
law-abiding American, if that test should matter at all.

I ask Sujitno what he would say to President Trump 
if he had the chance. He responded, “Trump’s wife is 
from another country. His father-in-law is from another 
country. Why should they become citizens?” he said. 
“It hurts me.”

There will be more court appearances and rallies to 
attend. The Meriden church will carry on with orga­
nizing pro-immigrant events. Activists and lawyers like 
Steve and Diana will charge forward in their cease­
less efforts so that Sujitno and Dahlia, and others like 
them, can continue to enjoy peaceful Friday morn­
ings, making breakfast in their own home, which is a 
right that has been twisted into a privilege. On this 
day, Sujitno is preparing to catch a train, and Dahlia 
is making a delicious meal, dressed in a vibrant green 
hijab embroidered with pearl-like beads. Before I 
leave, he tells me he has been living in this apartment 
for a long time, more than twenty years. I pray that he 
will have twenty more. 
- Ko Lyn Cheang is a junior in 
Grace Hopper College
*On May 17, 2020, the article was altered to clarify that Unitarian 
Universalism emerged when two separate faiths with roots in early Chris­
tianity, Unitarianism and Universalism, consolidated in the second half 
of the twentieth century.



**Title: That’s Why I Chose Zoom**
**Author: Alexandra Galloway**
**Page number(s): 36**

Behind my classmate, I can see the golden glint 
of Pierson Tower as the sunlight hits it just right. 
She’s studying in the Davenport courtyard—the 
grass a sea of emerald, the paint on the spire blin­
dingly white and her hair aglow in the sunshine. 
I almost believe that I am back at Yale––until the 
disembodied voice of another classmate interrupts 
the illusion created by her virtual background. His 
video is off; I fixate on the letter “S” that fills the 
screen in lieu of his picture. Welcome to Zoom 
University. 

Since late March, Zoom, a video-conferencing 
platform, has become an integral part of our lives. 
It has replaced many of our communal spaces, 
offering a new means of virtual connection as we 
shut down public life and isolate ourselves in order 
to fight COVID-19. Jimmy Fallon hosts celebrity 
guests over Zoom. Parents call into work from their 
dining room tables over Zoom. Friends grab bot­
tles of wine and reunite for Zoom happy hours; 
long-distance couples Netflix and Zoom. Strobe 
lights flash and bass booms as students sign in to 
Zoom dance parties and jump around their child­
hood bedrooms.  

In the realm of academics, Zoom has transformed 
how students engage with professors and with one 
another. Eric Yuan, CEO of Zoom, reported in 
early April that over ninety thousand schools across 
the world were using Zoom and that over two hun­
dred million people were using the platform daily. 
Instead of meeting in seminar rooms and lecture 
halls, students and professors are now logging into 
🎶 THAT’S WHY 
    I CHOSE ZOOM 🎵
Congratulations, you’ve been admitted 
to Yale Virtual University Class of 202X! 

class from across the world, across time zones, 
and across backgrounds, offering new opportu­
nities for engagement but also new challenges. 
Students joke that they are now students at Zoom 
University, even designing sweatshirts and t-shirts 
to show school pride. 

Yet for all the jokes, Zoom seriously strains Yale 
students’ sense of community. To me, the Yale 
experience is defined by racing to be first-in-line 
for Pierson College’s breakfast for dinner, sharing 
Kookie Monster donuts with my friends at Donut 
Crazy, late nights dancing and laughing at the 
local nightclub Toads, and collective suffering in 
Bass Library. When that is gone, what are we left 
with? Can Zoom fill that void in any meaningful 
way? 

“Hestia, you ready?” Stephen Latham, profes­
sor of Yale’s popular course Bioethics and Law, 
asks his cat, at the beginning of a pre-recorded 
Zoom lecture. His hair is silver and tousled as he 
raises his cat like Simba in The Lion King. Her 
white paws splay out to her sides and she looks 
straight into the camera with bright green eyes. 
“Go!” he says. But instead, Hestia jumps out 
of his lap and saunters to the door with a meow. 
“We went over this. Alright, go out, but you are 
definitely not getting the salmon.” 

Latham sits again and sighs, “Very unreliable 
cat,” before launching into a fifty-minute lecture. 
At the beginning of each lecture, Latham makes 
his students smile with short skits, ranging from 
him listening to K-Pop songs to him chiding a 
stuffed animal for its prolonged screen time. 

Cormac O’Dea, a professor of economics at 
Yale, is also grappling with the new reality of 
online instruction. Given his discipline, he’s 
more than familiar with the allocation of scarce 
resources—but he never expected that his home 
Wi-Fi would become one. 

Over 120 students join his Zoom lectures on 
Introductory Microeconomics each class, so every 
Monday and Wednesday from 1:00 to 2:15 p.m. 
he has to monopolize the Wi-Fi in his house. “In 
choosing my Wi-Fi package, I did not imagine 
this particular scenario,” O’Dea laughs over our 
Zoom call. 

Teaching over Zoom certainly poses more dif­
ficulties than just Wi-Fi. Like many other profes­



**Title: Adapting to the Unexpected**
**Author: Alexandra Galloway**
**Page number(s): 37-38**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
APRIL 2020
 37
design by Annli Nakayama
Pictured: Stephen Latham and Hestia in Bioethics and Law lecture
sors, O’Dea has had to adapt to a new way of teach­
ing and engaging with students through Zoom. 
Normally while lecturing, O’Dea can look out 
into the audience and gauge student reactions, 
but now it is much harder because students have 
to turn off their video in lecture to conserve his 
Wi-Fi. He cannot tell whether students are smil­
ing when he uses Vizzini from The Princess Bride 
to explain game theory, or whether students are 
following along when he is lecturing on Pareto 
Efficiency and the Second Welfare Theorem. 
“You can’t see if the students are interested, 
bored, excited, or confused,” O’Dea said. 
To overcome these hurdles, O’Dea has kept an 
open mind and found new ways to keep paths of 
communication open, including encouraging par­
ticipation in lectures through interactive activities 
like break-out rooms, open polls, and a suggestion 
box linked on Canvas. “This is as new for me as 
it is for you folks,” O’Dea said, “I don’t have the 
presumption that I know how to do this.” 
O’Dea has also adapted the content of the class 
to the current crisis. At the start of each lecture, he 
shares economic news related to the pandemic. “It 
is important for us as instructors and students to 
engage in the world around us and [understand] 
how this crisis is affecting people other than our­
selves,” O’Dea said.
Although he was worried at first that students 
might not want to hear about the pandemic in 
class, ninety-five percent wanted 
him to continue, according to 
an in-class poll he conducted. 
He finds it important to remem­
ber how the crisis is affecting 
not only the world but also our 
community. “For many stu­
dents, this is not just abstract; 
this is affecting them and their 
families intensely,” O’Dea said. 
Students are facing an over­
load of barriers to full academic 
participation in online classes, 
including 
responsibilities 
at 
home, sick loved ones, lack of 
reliable internet or technol­
ogy, having to get a job, wors­
ened mental health, and vast 
time differences, according to a 
recent poll conducted by the Yale College Coun­
cil. These obstacles, while experienced by every 
student to some degree, are felt most acutely by 
first generation, low income, and international stu­
dents. 


When Keigo Nishio ’21 found out that Yale was 
moving classes online for the rest of the semester, 
he was shocked. He did not understand how he was 
going to overcome the thirteen-hour time differ­
ence between New Haven and his home of Osaka, 
Japan. Since then, Keigo has found a tenuous bal­
ance between school, work, family, and sleep. 
Keigo starts his school day off at midnight. He 
attends his classes until 3 to 4 a.m., works as a 
teaching assistant for a couple hours, and then 
only sleeps one to two hours a night. He cooks 
breakfast at 9 a.m. During the day, he has meet­
ings, chores, and homework, and he tries to nap in 
whatever spare hours are left. 
Despite the challenges posed by the time differ­
ence, he has felt supported by Yale faculty. “Luck­
ily, my professors were all so accommodating,” 
Keigo said, “I really appreciate my professors.” 
Most of his professors started recording class so 
he did not feel obligated to stay up, but he also 
appreciated his professors’ care and consideration. 
They often reached out to check in, his anthro­
pology professor even dedicating time in lecture to 
reach out to see how his students were doing. 


“We, both students and professors, are now 
required to consider and accommodate our diverse 
needs, which is actually an essential thing even at 
normal times,” Keigo said, “I hope this mutual 
care will continue, even after the pandemic is con­
tained.”
When I asked Keigo how he has enough energy 
to get through the day, Keigo said, “I don’t know.” 
He paused. Then, with a laugh: “Somehow it 
works. Everyone has their own way to deal with 
things.” 
Beyond the classroom, students have tried to 
deal with this jarring disruption in their lives by 
reaching out to one another. Almost six hundred 
thousand people have joined the Facebook group 
Zoom Memes for Self Quaranteens where students 
commiserate with each other through TikToks and 
memes, and immortalize moments of levity. Over 
Facebook, students have worked together to make 
masks and support medical staff. No Fail Yale, a 
student driven movement to fight for a universal 
passing grade for all Yale College courses, mobi­
lized students internationally to organize and fight 
for educational equity. 
Yale students have also tried to preserve tradi­
tions through Zoom. Secret societies tap with fur­
tive Zoom invites instead of their traditional night­
time congregations. Political parties of the Yale 
Political Union debate from their kitchen tables. 
Instead of visiting Yale, wandering around in the 
cold, and bouncing from extracurricular booth to 
booth to find pizza, prospective students now par­
ticipate in “30 Bulldog Days of April,” featuring a 
new master class or information session each day. 
One of the most renowned student traditions at 
Yale is Woads. Every Wednesday night, the local 
nightclub Toad’s Place closes the club to every­
one except Yale students, serves penny drinks, and 
offers free and reduced admission. Even though 
students are spread out across the world and social 
distancing, the tradition has not died out. 
Victoria Bonano ’21 hosted a Woads event over 
Zoom––what she calls Zoads. “Zoom… provide[s] 
a platform for all of us to come together and hang 
out, as we usually would while in New Haven, 
despite being so far away from each other at the 
moment,” Bonano said. 
Her co-host Paulina Halley set the mood with 
Sound Activated DJ Lights and a DJ controller. 
Students joined from their bedrooms, from the 
basements of their fraternities, and from all around 
the world, including New York, New Haven, Illi­
nois, California, Puerto Rico, Mexico, and Chile. 
“One of the hardest things about not being on 
campus has been missing out on many big events 
all of us were looking forward to, like birthdays and 
formals, as well as day to day activities, like study 
dates and GHeav runs with friends,” Bonano said, 
“Woad’s represents a mid-week study break with our 
friends that we look forward to every Wednesday, so 
we hosted Zoad’s to try to keep some sense of nor­
malcy and fun during these times.”
It was not quite the same––there was more laugh­
ter and chatter than at a typical Woad’s. But it made 
sense that people wanted to talk. After all, it was the 
first time many of them had seen each other since 
they had gone home for spring break.
I am not sure if Zoom can ever approximate what 
it feels like to be at Yale––to trudge up Science Hill 
in the icy slush to get to physics study hall, to wan­
der around campus at night drinking bubble tea, 
to look up and see Harkness Tower and wonder to 
yourself, “How the hell did I end up here?” 
But in the small, precious moments of Zoom, 
when my friend calls me from across the country 
to try to wake me up for class, when our professors’ 
children sneak into lecture behind them, when a 
brave soul in your lecture uses Club Penguin to 
explain game theory––in these moments, the dis­
tance becomes almost bearable. Yale, with all its 
ups and downs, does not seem so far away.  
- Alexandra Galloway is a first-year
in Davenport College and an
Associate Editor of The New
Journal



--- Page 39 ---

Truth
History
Democracy
Hear from some of the most outstanding 
journalists in the world and gain insight into 
the media and its role in contemporary culture.
poynter.yale.edu

