Publication date: November 2006
Volume: 39
Issue number: 3


**MASTHEAD:**
- Publisher: Romy Drucker
- Editor-in-Chief: Adriane Quinlan
- Managing Editors: Jonny Dach, Helen Eckinger
- Designer: Anna Zhang
- Business Manager: Nick Handler
- Senior Editors: Mina Kimes, David Zax
- Production Manager: Nicole Allan
- Research Director: Emily Koh
- Circulation and Subscription Manager: Lauren Harrison
- Web Designer: Nicholas Moryl
- Staff: Russell Brandom, Tess Dearing, Elizabeth Gumport, Pat Hayden, Ben Lasman, Sophia Lear, Aditi Ramakrishnan, Laura Zax
- Members and Directors: Joshua Civin, Peter B. Cooper, Tom Griggs, Brooks Kelley, Daniel Kurtz-Phelan, Kathrin Lassila, Jennifer Pitts, Henry Schwab, Elizabeth Sledge, Jim Sleeper, David Slifka, Fred Strebeigh, Thomas Strong, John Swansburg
- Advisors: Richard Bradley, Jay Carney, Richard Conniff, Ruth Conniff, Elisha Cooper, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, Steven Weisman, Daniel Yergin
- Friends: Michael Addison, Austin Family Fund, Steve Ballou, J. Neela Banerjee, Margaret Bauer, Emily Bazelon, Anson M. Beard, Jr. Blaire Bennett, Richard Bradley, Martha Brant, Susan Braudy, Daniel Brook, Hilary Callahan, Jay Carney, Dapline Chu, Josh Civin, Jonathan M. Clark, Constance Clement, Andy Court, Masi Denison, Albert J. Fox, Mrs. Howard Fox, David Freeman, Geoffrey Fried, Sherwin Goldman, David Greenberg, Stephen Hellman, Laura Heymann, Gerald Hwang, Walter Jacob, Jane Kamensky, Tina Kelley, Roger Kirwood, Lewis E. Lehrman, Jim Lowe, E. Nobles Lowe, Daniel Murphy, Martha E. Neil, Peter Neil, Howard H. Newman, Seaq O'Brien, Laura Pappano, Julie Peters, Lewis and Joan Platt, Josh Plaut, Julia Preston, Lauren Rabin, Fairfax C. Randal, Robert Randolph, Stuart Rohrer Arleen and Arthur Sager, Richard Shields, W. Hampton Sides, Lisa Silverman, Scott Simpson, Adina Proposco and David Sulsman, Thomas Strong, Margarita Whiteleather, Blake Wilson, Daniel Yergin and Angela Stent Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- What Elihu took from India 
- Italian delis duke it out 
- Falun Gong flees Chin 
- Irish history comes to life 
- Trumbull College Master's Tea
- The Wanted Professor - Daniel Jordan
- The Candidate - Nicole Allan
- A Gated Community - Amy Rothschild
- Eire Apparent - Ben Lasman
- 4 Points of Departure
- The Critical Angle -  Enlightened Smut by Helen Eckinger
- Shots in the Dark
- A Cold Cut - Sophia Lear
- The Way of the Law Wheel - Nick Handler
- Elihu in India - Aditi Ramakrishnan
- Essay - Seventy Angry Men - Jonny Dach
- Endnote - The Ivy Circuit - Lauren Harrison



**Title: Trumbull College Master's Tea**
**Author: Andrew Lam**
**Page number(s): 2**

Andrew Lam 
Editor, New American Media 
Author, Perfume Dreams 
Book of essays on the Vietnamese diaspora. 
Wednesday, November 29th 
4:00p.m. 
100 High Street 
910 whalley IMDie 
new haven 065 15 
20i389J369 
receive a 5"% 
55 whitney aventr 
new 
06510 
203.776. YARN 
with this ad


**Title: A Cold Cut**
**Author: Sophia Lear**
**Page number(s): 26**

Star-crossed brothers (in;_ law) battle it out~


**Title: The Way of the Law Wheel**
**Author: Nick Handler**
**Page number(s): 30**

How Falun Gong translates at Yale.


**Title: Elihu in India**
**Author: Aditi Ramakrishnan**
**Page number(s): 38**

Can Yale speak its mother tongue?


**Title: The Wanted Professor**
**Author: Daniel Jordan**
**Page number(s): 18**


**Title: The Candidate**
**Author: Nicole Allan**
**Page number(s): 20**


**Title: A Gated Community**
**Author: Amy Rothschild**
**Page number(s): 11**


**Title: Eire Apparent**
**Author: Ben Lasman**
**Page number(s): 14**


**Title: 4 Points of Departure**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): N/A**


**Title: The Critical Angle**
**Author: Helen Eckinger**
**Page number(s): 22**

Enlightened Smut


**Title: Shots in the Dark**


**Title: Essay**
**Author: Jonny Dach**
**Page number(s): 43**

Seventy Angry Men


**Title: Endnote**
**Author: Lauren Harrison**
**Page number(s): 46**

The Ivy Circuit



**Against the Grain**
**Author: Mitch Reich**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
t • 
-! . 
. I 
Against th~ 
Grain 
• ' 

THE SHORT DRIVE OUT TO FAIR 
Haven feels like a century of ur-
ban decay on fast-forward: Yale 
passes behind you, then downtown, 
still ''reawakening,.,, and then the 
sad, shoddy buildings that line the 
highways winding toward the city's 
half-vacant industrial core. Among 
the empty warehouses that once fu-
eled America's First Planned City, 
across . from an overgrown plant 
nursery, Rob Fecke has erected an 
almost painfully self-aware symbol 
of urban renewal. F ecke, a charmer 
with the slouchy mannerisms of a 
ski bum, tousles his bright mane of 
blonde hair as he says of his busi-
ness, ''We are, like, the epitome of 
economic development." 


Fecke's Reclamation Lumber 
salvages and resells old timber from 
turn -of-the-century mills, factories, 
and other overlooked buildings like 
colonial agricultural silos. The very 
first building F ecke entered eight 
years ago to gut for lumber was 
the 19th-century Winchester Arms 
Company, the long-collapsed lode-
star of New Haven's economy. He 
used its logs for a commercial build-
ing in Litchfield.


Fecke's business model feeds off 
the history he dismantles, breeding 
new life from the dried timbers. He 
turns ancient planks from collaps-
ing, century-old buildings into ·us-
able wood and then sells it at two 
to three times the price of fresh-cut 
lumber. 


Within the factory, a hive -of 
workers twitter in English and 
Spanish. They are in the process of 
reclaiming an old gym . floor from 
Albertus Magnus College, splintered 
boards from the Yale bowl, and a 
filthy-looking piece of an Amish 
country-house from Pennsylvania. 
Here, the wood goes through a slow 
rebirth. Workers clean off half an 
inch of grime, rot, and water damage 
and then reshape the wood to form 
perfect, rectangular planks. Fecke 
keeps a sort of family album of where 
his offspring end up: the floor of an 
office in Litchfield, a deluxe apart-
ment in Manhattan, and the bases of 
those tiny, ubiquitous table tents in 
every Yale dining hall. 


The Yale Sustainable Food Proj-
ect collaborates with Rob Fecke to 
make these centerpieces. Josh Vi-
ertel, the project's director, gushes 
that, ''It's really beautiful orange 
wood ... Beautiful, beautiful wood: 
doesn't need any finish, doesn't 
need any paint." He's referring to 
what people in the business call a 
"patina," a luster that wood gains 
only with age. Fecke and Viertel 
claim that old wood has a richer and 
deeper color and that dense clusters 
of growth rings create a more du-
rable, stable piece of lumber. Vier-
tel can hardly bring himself to buy 
wood from anyone else: the Food 
Project's greenhouses are·assembled 
with slats from an old, beachside 
boardwalk, and the roof of its wood-
burning oven was pulled from a 
factory in East Haven. Viertel even 
purchased reclaimed lumber for the 
compost bins and stakes. With Fecke 
he feels a ''connection with someone 
who's into materials, into policy." 


Of course, recycled wood is more 
sustainable. "They're all a bunch of 
greenheads over there," Fecke says 
of Yale. "It's a good thing." Fecke is 
a fervent environmentalist himself. 
He talks passionately of Wall Street 
and its environmentally destructive 
incentives system, the history of log-
ging and carpentry, and how chemi-
cal treatments have changed Ameri- . 
can practices forever. He talks about 
fast-growing trees that can never 
compare to the products of ancient 
forests, and how, for most of their 
history, humans have recycled wood 
to build new structures. History, for 
F ecke, has been nothing more than a 
continuous process of rebuilding. 


But when asked if he's involved 
in any other environmental ·causes, 
Fecke says he's not. Then, zooming 
almost instantly into the microscop-
ic details of running his business, he 
describes his plans for expansion and 
a big meeting when he will display 
his showroom to architects. He says 
he wants to win back the "battle-
ground" that is industrial Fair Haven. 


There· is something else that Recla-
mation Lumber is trying to reclaim: 
a section of the city that he wants to 
"win back." And that's not a surpris-
ing idea to hear from one of the few 
who believes that at least something 
in New Haven has aged well. 

-Mitch Reich 


**Native Speakers**
**Author: Patrick Hayden**
**Page number(s): 5**

• 
Native Speakers 
. 

IN A CHINESE I I 5 CLASS, THE 
at-
mosphere among the ten students is 
generally one of camaraderie in the 
struggle to learn a new language. 
There is, however, one student who 
interferes with the laid-back tone. 
When the professor asks questions 
that stump the other students, Lind-
say speaks up. At other times, she 
seems bored, rubbing her eyes. When 
other students struggle over a tricky 
phrase, Lindsay breaks in, correcting 
their pronunciation. In a word, she 
makes things ... uncomfortable. 


Whether out of cultural fascina-
tion or practical business aspirations, 
more and more students are flocking 
to Chinese language classes. But as 
the East Asian Studies Department 
expands its course offerings, it is 
having trouble deciding what to do 
with students like Lindsay 
stu-
dents of Chinese heritage who can 
speak the language to some extent, 
but lack significant exposure to its 
written form. 


Yale has restructured its Chinese 
program in response to this and oth-
er problems. Following a series of 
meetings in the summer of 2005, the 
university adopted a new placement 
test for students with some Chinese 
experience. Based on test results, the 
.. department places introductory lev-
el students in either Chinese 115, for 
students with no experience, or Chi-
nese 118, for students who, accord-
ing to the course description, "have 
had varying degrees of exposure to 
Chinese in a family or other setting." 


Yale emphasizes that the courses in 
October 2006 
this "separate track" are "not more 
'advanced' than those designed for 
students with no background in 
Chinese but rather address a· differ-
ent set of needs." Chinese 115 pro-
vides elementary language .skills to 
students with no previous exposure 
to the language, with particular at-
tention to pronunciation and speak-
ing. Chinese 118, on the other hand, 
is designed for students with some 
background in the language and fo-
cuses on literacy. 


Yale's new program has its 
kinks. 
Some students, like Lind-
say, have ended up in 115 when 
118 would be more appropriate. In 
Lindsay's case, a scheduling conflict 
prevented her from taking 118, but 
some other students 
disparagingly 
called "sleepers" by t4eir peers-
have been known to mask their lan-
guage abilities in order to succeed 
in less challenging classes and coast 
through language requirements. 


The problems multiply in the 
intermediate and advanced courses. 
After one year of language study, 
the department merges the two 
tracks in the hope that both sets of 
students will be able to work to-
gether at a similar level. However, 
many non-heritage students report, 
that the departmenes plan is some-
what naive. Scott Cohen, · an East 
~ 
Asian Studies major now enrolled in 
an advanced course on Chinese film, 
sits alongside classmates with more · 
oral competence in the language. 
While he may score well on written 
assignments, he still lacks the mas-
tery many native speakers possess 
and has come to the conclusion that 
"you just can't worry about your 
grades." He remains enthusiastic 
about the language, but finds study-
ing it increasingly frustrating. "It's 
enormously hard to articulate opin-
ions and arguments," he explains. 
"I come home really upset some-
times. 


While Cohen has stuck with it, 
many others have abandoned the 
language altogether. Marisa Reis-
man, a junior who recently stopped 
taking · Chinese, found that there 
was too much variety in the experi-
ence levels of students in her classes. 
After two years of study and a sum-
mer in China, she found it almost 
impossible to follow the language 
at a level comparable to that of stu-
dents with backgrounds in Chinese. 
Reisman feels that the Yale program 
is impossible to navigate for a stu-
dent attempting to learn the lan-
guage from scratch. "If you just go 
through the Yale program," without 
visiting China, she says, "you would 
crash and burn.'' 


Still, some Chinese-heritage stu-
dents insist learning Chinese is not 
simple for anyone. 
Lissa Yu originally attempted 
to take an upper-level class, assum-
ing her heritage and speaking ability 
would qualify her for its demands. 
Instead, she wound up "bombing" 
the first test and dropping down to 
Chinese 118. She admits her back-
ground gave her some advantage in 
the class, but she argues, "Every-
one had some knowledge and, for 
those who didn't, you knew what 
you were getting into.'' Further-
more, Yu points out that her own 
abilities should not be overrat-
ed though she is a native speaker, 
she speaks Chinese "like a four-
year-old." 


Besides, Yu suggests that non-
heritage students can also learn a 
valuable lesson in their classes 
the 
feeling of suddenly finding yourself 
in a minority culture. "If you're un-
comfortable," she advises, "consider 
how I grew up." 

Some names have been changed. 
-Patrick Hayden 


**Plumbing the Depths**
**Author: Laura Zax**
**Page number(s): 6**

t 
•• 
-
I . 

Plumbing the 
Depths 

SARAH STRONG IS 
A 
WESLEYAN 
graduate, a soon-to-be published 
poet, and according to a recent 
poll in The New Haven Advocate·-
the finest plumber in New Haven. 
If the combination surprises you, 
you're not alone. Even Strong her-
self is somewhat baffled. "If you had 
told me I was gonna be a plumber 
living in New Haven ... " she says, 
letting the sentence finish itself. 


Strong's story is an encourag-
ing one for Yale seniors whose post-
graduation plans are often nebulous 
and anxiety-inducing. In Strong's 
family there was precedent for job-
hopping and tradesmanship of the 
many jobs her. mother had, her fa-
vorite was a stint as a carpenter. As 
an aspiring actress in high school, 
the future plumber never had pipe 
dreams. Sure, she liked to tinker 
with things and didn't mind getting 
dirty, but the connections end there. 
Her resume is a smorgasbord of ca-
reers. She has been a bartender, a 
door-to-door canvasser, a teacher in 
a bilingual school, and an interpreter 
at a deaf school. 


Strong made her first foray into 
plumbing a little less than a decade 
ago when, while searching for a job 
that would allow her to continue 
writing poetry and fiction part-time, 
she accompanied her plumber boy-
friend on the job. Plumbing, though, 
is not a career one just falls into. It 
requires at least twice as many years. 
of preparation to become a licensed 
plumber as it does to become a li-
censed lawyer. It takes four years 
of apprenticeship, two years of . 
practice as a journeyman, and three 
multiple-choice exams to put the 
"skilled" in "skilled labor." But after 
her first day under the pipes Strong 
was "completely sold, end of dis-
cussion," and she quickly began the 
formal education that would secure 
her a license. Six years later, ·she 
founded Anchor Plumbing, LLC. 


Strong cites the paucity of 
women in the trades as the reason 
she never considered a plumbing 
career in her youth. Female trades-
men comprise about two percent 
of the skilled physical labor work 
force, and Strong guesses the .statis-
tic is even smaller in the ph.imbing 
industry. She also points to the pre-
vailing attitudes about tradesman-
ship. "A lot of people don't ever 
even think to consider a, job in the 
trades," says Strong. 


The poet-plumber shakes her 
head at the classist assumptions 
that cause many people to associ-
ate plumbing with a failure to earn a 
college degree. Strong, for one, has 
a B.A~ from Wesleyan. 


A college diploma and two X 
chromosomes aren't the only things 
that make her an unconventional 
plumber. "I don't want to perpetu-
ate the ·stereotype of the mechanic," 
she says. So she combats precon-
ceptions by being punctual to all 
appointments and returning phone 
calls promptly. The ''plumber butt" 
stereotype is less easily dismantled. 
"The tool belt is heavy," she says 
obliquely. 


Though it's easy to imagine how 
plumbing might influence Strong's 
writing a mechanical vocabulary 
or a propensity for bathroom scenes, 
for example she has written only 
a few pieces about her job. One, a 
poem, will be published in the up-
coming edition of The Cream City 
Review, The University of Wiscon-
sin's literary journal. Surprisingly, 
Strong claims that her work as a 
writer has actually had a greater ef-
fect on her work as a plumber than 
the other way around. The com-
munication skills and sensitivity to 
interpersonal relationships honed 
by her writing serve her daily in her 
life as a tradeswoman. They cer-
tainly didn't go unnoticed by read-
ers of New Haven's newspaper The 
Advocate, who voted in a in a fall 
2006 poll that Strong's business is 
the best of its kind in the Elm City. 


Despite prevailing stereotypes 
surrounding her primary line of 
work, Strong never second-guess-
es its value. "Working with your 
hands is grounding," says Strong. 
"It teaches you to be in the present 
moment." Strong relishes the grati-
fication that results from solving a 
problem not on a page, but in a pipe. 
"It's empowering," says Strong, a 
jill of all trades, unafraid to leave 
her ivory tower for the porcelain 
bowls. Though writing, not plumb-
ing, may seem more important to 
Yale students, Strong recognizes 
that plumbing is nearly as essential 
as the water coursing through the 
pipelines she repairs. After all, she 
says, "You need that toilet." 

-LauraZax 


**Lip Schtick**
**Author:  No Author Listed**

Lip Schtick 
HEY THERE, KID. CAREFUL CLIMBING 
up onto my tank. Just this summer 
a drunk kid fell off me and landed 
· ----------------------------------------~·------------------------------------------------
6 



**Title: A Big, Metal Lipstick on Top of a Big, Scary Tank**
**Author: Ali Seitz**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
flat on his face. So you,re writing 
that paper for Professor Vincent 
Scully, aren,t you? After years of 
seeing students trek to Morse just 
to stare at me for a week and then 
never give me another glance, rve 
wised up. I can tell some of you just 
want to melt me down, but class is 
class, and papers must be written, 
so you kids learn to bullshit. 
I don't mind. I know Scully as-
signs this paper every year. Should 
I be placed on Old Campus? Or 
left at Morse, where I live now? I 
know I attract more sneers than 
admiring glances 
after all, r m a 
big, metal lipstick on top of a big, 
scary tank. Do you know what an 
identity criss that creates? rve al-
ways taken some comfort in being 
called a "work of art., But art, to 
most of you, is the David, with his 
handsome proportions and flawless 
musculature Queen Bee by luck-
of-the-form. I, on the other hand, 
am designed to be too much to 
handle. Michelangelo made David 
"larger than life,: Claes Oldenburg 
made me absurdly gargantuan. 
rm at peace enough with where 
I am. Here, Scully says my "wonder-
ful international orange stands out 
against the sky.'' Here, 0 ldenburg 
says, I "turn on the sky., I know, 
that doesn't help my reputation as 
a big phallic joke, but ir>s one of the 
nicest things anyone has ever said 
about me. When I was installed in 
Beinecke Plaza in '69, people tossed 
around the idea of giving me a part-
ner a cigarette butt perched on 
the low wall, to complete the look. 
But they left me alone, so you kids 
graffitied me and postered me" my 
exposed tracks rusted, and I was 
·taken away. 
I can see what you scribble 
-
down. You think I can,t read? rve 
gone to college for 38 years. This 
year, one of you called my cur-
rent home "cramped" but wrote 
in your paper that r d look out of 
_shape and silly on Old Campus. If 
October 2006 
she were forced to move me there, 
she, d smush me between Bingham 
and Vanderbilt, next to the recy-
cling bins and trash. She is in the 
c'melt-me-down,, camp. They talk 
about doing it behind my back all 
the time, but you can,t let it get to 
you. Ir>s important to keep a cool, 
metal shell. 
Others seem scared of me,-
scared that I might start rolling and 
crush everything in my path, or 
that I might launch a missile from 
my shaft. They,re in the "can,t-
separate-life-from-art, camp. In 
the 70s, I served as an anti-war 
platform. These days, students see 
a military machine. rm what you 
kids make of me. 
Yup, kid, sitting down is a 
good idea, especially if .you,re so-
ber. (Remember that drunk kid, 
who tanked off me?) Whar>s that? 
I would have given you some com-
fort on 0 ld Campus? Ah, a healthy 
dose of the absurd the day you ar-
rived. Something else out of place, 
standing tall and proud. You think 
that all of the other "lost" freshman 
would empathize with me? Well, 
kid, rm not the lost one. You,re 
the one talking to a statue instead 
of writing your paper. 
Eh! What are you doing now? 
You know, you get even funnier-
looking when you're down on your 
hands and knees. You're crawling 
underneath me? Yeah, rm hollow 
inside (ir>s a body-image problem 
I've struggled with for years). But 
people usually experience me from 
the outside, you realize. Are you 
standing up? Careful there. Whoa! 
Kid, I haven,t been touched there 
in years! 


**Title: Skeletons in the Closet**
**Author: Laura Bennett**
**Page number(s): 8**

AN ENORMOUS WILD PIG LURKS 
in the entryway of a building on 
Whitney Avenue. Its jaws gape. Its 
back bristles with . wiry fur. 
The 
pig's flank is made of . woven bas-
ketry. 
Painted in rich shades of 
ochre, chalk, and soot, it is actually 
a tribal dance costume acquired by 
Anthropologist Leopold Pospisil in 
the 1950s from a Tambunus village 
in Papua New Guinea. Against the 
white walls and grim linoleum of 
Yal~'s Physical Anthropology Lab, 
it seems resigned to never dance 
• 
aga1n. 

The hallways are lined with 
similar relics. Glass cases bear fes-
tive garlands of wooden beads, 
pottery artifacts~ and even a canoe 
from the Pacific Northwest. In one 
room, a delicate skeleton of a small · 
primate is poised on a branch, its 
bones eerily arranged. 

The majority of Yale's anthro-
pological specimens collect dust in 
the largest of the eighteen ·store-
rooms that house the combined 
collections of Yale and the Pea-
body Museum. Stacks and stacks 
of boxes, meticulously labeled, 
extend up to the ceiling. These 
anthropological goodies are not 
on display across the street in the 
Peabody because they are either 
insufficiently restored or insuffi-
ciently eye-catching. 

Althoug the objects are still 
accessible to researchers, curators 
may also be hesitant to put them 
in a public exhibition because of 
the controversial nature of Yale's 
ownership. Yale acquired most of 
the specimens in this room between 
1920 and 1970, before new laws re-
garding the transp·ortation of antiq-
uities were instated. ''The process 
of collection has changed a lot over 
.time," says Ben Diebold, a gradu-
ate student in the anthropology de-
partment. 

Though once artifacts 
could be shipped to the museum 
after excavations, after World War 
II, countries tightened regulations 
about the movement of antiquities. 
In the 21st century, countries tend to 
be reasonably possessive of artifacts 
discovered within their borders. 

The items in the storeroom are 
mostly relics of a time during which 
a sort of "finders, keepers" men-
tality prevailed. The grey boxes, 
Diebold explains, all contain skele-
tal material: pieces of jaw bone, tib-
ias, pelvises, a yellowed skull with 
crooked teeth. They come from 
large-scale excavations as well as 
private collections. 

"We've got a mummy in here," 
says Diebold nonchalantly, gestur-
ing towards a crate made of smooth 
wood, as small as a child's toybox. 
Inside lies a dwarfed nine-year-old 
girl from Thebes, swathed in fabric, 
a painted mask obscuring her face. 
Archeologists believe there was 
a spa near the site where she was 
found, and that at the time of her 
death, the girl was brought there for 
treatment. She ended up here. 

There is something unsettling 
about the place, with its austere 
walls and neat shelving. As coldly 
institutional as a factory warehouse, 
the room nonetheless quivers with 
eccentric stories that most students 
will never hear tales about the 
splintered femur of an ancient man, 
shards of the world's first glass, a 
mummified crocodile dozing un-
seen all tucked on shelves and nes-
tled in ordered boxes, hidden in the 
bowels of the lab, relics of the days 
when anthropologists took what 
they found and brought it here. 


**Title: Blue Blooded**
**Author: Annie Hudson-Price**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

IN 2006, ONE HUNDRED YALE STU-
dents gathered to protest the war in 
Iraq. A generation earlier, on May 
15\ 1970, 15,000 Yale students and 
demonstrators from around the 
country gathered in New Haven to 
protest the murder trial of the Black 
Panther party chairman, · Bobby 
Seale. Numbers like these have led 
many to point to a decline in po-
litical activism on college campuses 
since the end of the Vietnam era. 
Though these protests occurred 36 
years apart, the Stromberg family 
was at Yale for both . 

Before Cliff Stromberg '71 even 
takes a seat at a meeting of Yale do-
nors, he pulls out a pamphlet stu-
dents handed to him earlier. It pro-
claims that a staggering one fifth 
of Yale's undergraduate population 
comes from only seventy of the na-
tion's high schools. He looks at the 
pamphlet, then cautiously suggests, 
"Aren't there more serious issues to 
be fighting?" 

Stromberg matriculated at Yale 
in 1967, when the university was 
still an all male bastion and stu-
dents wore coats and ties to class. 
Reflecting on his first two years at 
Yale, Stromberg believes that the 
political spectrum on campus dur-
ing that period was similar to the 
range of opinions on campus today. 
In 1969, however, women arrived: 
The ties came off, the draft became 
a reality, the civil rights movement 
was in full force, and the political 
spectrum shrank. "There was no 
gradual change. The difference be-
tween 1967 and 1969 was like the 
difference between 1945 and 1969," 
Stromberg says. "'LiberaP turned 
into a dirty word it implied you 
weren't radical enough. Any asso-
ciation with the Democratic Party 
branded you as a 'sellout to the 
establishment."' 

Stromberg's wife, Dr. Eva Fein-
er '71, attended Swarthmore for two 
years before transferring to Yale in 
the fall of '69. Feiner remembers the 
campus reverberating with the feel-
ing that "we were united in a potent 
moment in history where we could 
actually change things." The sheer 
number of baby boomers created a 
sense of power, and the shaky state 
of the economy eased students' fears 
that their involvement with protests 
would threaten their otherwise 
bright futures. Political philosophy 
and revisionist history were incor-
porated into all levels of education. 
It was more than a period of social 
and political change; it was an intel-
lectual revolution. 

Stromberg and Feiner's daugh-
ter, Kimberly Stromberg, is a senior 
at Yale and has just completed her 
run as publisher of the Yale Daily 
News. She combines her parents' 
former idealism with their cur-
rent ambition. An Economics and 
History double major, Kimberly 
dresses in cowboy boots and funky 
scarves when not suited up for a fi-
nance interview. Though she has a 
job at a New York City investment 
bank lined up for next year, Kim-
berly is quick to emphasize that 
this occupation is merely a starting 
point; a necessary step before she 
can pursue something more mean-
ingful, perhaps related to interna-
tional economic development. 

The Yale that Kimberly attends 
barely resembles the university of 
her parents' years. The sense of be-
longing to a "potent moment in his-
tory" no longer exists. Ins_tead, her 
father points out, "Kids .today are 
more practical about changing the 
world in concrete, local ways: Teach 
for America, personal projects in 
Guatemala, advocating for environ-
mental reform, interning in D.C." 

At the Yale Kimberly's parents 
experienced, any progressive po-
litical action had to be anti-estab-
lishment. "I couldn't imagine even 
considering business school when I 
graduated from Yale," Feiner says. 
"It wasn't considered intellectual 
enough." Instead, she received her 
Ph.D. in government at Harvard, an 
experience she describes as wonder-
ful but not quite right for her. "It 
was a politically correct decision." 
After graduate school and "an edu-
cation in the real world," Feiner de-
cided that she could best change the 
system from the inside. "I started to 
believe that the markets could have 
a more sweeping effect in improv-
ing people's lives than government 
imposed policies." Feiner has head-
ed IBM's Department for Interna-
tional Trade and Development. 

Kimberly knows her parents see 
their careers as much more "estab-
lishment'' than the professions they 
had envisioned as undergraduates. 
Nevertheless, both parents feel they 
have successfully found ways to ex-
press the values they learned at Yale, 
and Kimberly hopes to do the same. 
But by following her parents' half-
rebellious road, she is by definition 
less rebellious. 

The political activity Kimberly 
sees on the Yale campus is largely 
intellectual or institutionalized: the 
Roosevelt Institute, bus trips to 
canvas for votes, politically inclined 
magazines like The Hippolytic. And 
yet, while everyone seems to have 
an opinion, few students spend 
significant time instigating radical 
political change. Unlike her par-
ents' generation, Kimberly and her 
friends tend to accept their parents' 
politics. Many seniors at Yale have 
parents who were, at their age, part 
of a revolutionary moment in his-
tory. And though they have heard 
stories of how their parents rebelled 
against the establishment, these same 
parents have more often than .not 
landed themselves "establishment" 
careers that pay for their tuition. 

Like their formerly radical par-
ents, many current Yale students 
have chosen to work within the 
system by taking I -banking careers, 
completing D.C. internships, and 
teaching in under-funded public 
schools. Perhaps this is not so much 
an indication of apathy, but rather a 
sign that as times change, so do the 
best ways to effect further change. 


**Title: The Sillidiaspora**
**Author: [Author Name Missing]**
**Page number(s): 9**

EMILE 
MISSES 
THE 
COURTYARD. 
Roseanne misses the dining hall. 
_ Stu misses the steel-cut oats, Tony 
misses the squirrels, and everybody 
misses everybody else. Each year, as 
Yale sequentially renovates its resi-
dential colleges, a new student pop-
ulation finds itself · displaced. But 
all over campus, from the heights 
of Kline Biology Tower to the in-
ner recesses of the Morse-Stiles 



**Title: Silliman's Ghosts**
**Author: David Zax**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
kitchen, Yale workers · are also 
missing Silliman. 

To be sure, they insist, there is 
much to commend at their new out-
posts. Calhoun's "hounies" have 
· warmed up to Emile, who cleans 
entryways C, D, and E. Some have 
discovered . that the native Haitian 
speaks French, and they practice 
with her each morning. Ricky now 
• 
cleans Morse, and he finds his new 
job a little bit easier; it seems that 
Morsels steal few~r cups than Silli-
manders, so Ricky doesn't have to 
constantly carry them back to the 
dining hall. Jeanne, who supervised 
Emile and Ricky when they worked 
in Silliman, is happy to spend more 
time in Timothy Dwight, getting to 
know the students there. And while 
Tony misses "Jeannie," whom he 
. 
-
calls one of the best bosses he's 
ever had, he's really pleased with 
Kirsta, his new supervisor: "She's a 
peach," he says. 


Still, they miss it. "I miss ev-
erything about . Silliman," 
says 
Tony, his eyes magnified by his 
thick glasses. Now 71 years old, he 
spent the last nine of those years 
cleaning Silliman's entryways A, B, 
and C. He particularly misses the 
courtyard's squirrels, whom he had 
gradually befriended (with the help 
of peanuts) by the end of his first 
year at Silliman. ''It was a ritual for 
me 
every day," he says, adding 
that a three-pound bag of nuts from 
Stop & Shop would last him only a 
week and a half. The squirrels grew 
so used to Tony, they could recog-
nize him at a distance swarming 
him even when he wasn't in uni-
form and he could even recognize 
some of them. "One had half an 
ear," Tony reminisces. "He was the 
smartest one." 

It seems that the squirrels have 
also been displaced by the construc-
tion. When the renovation first be-
gan, Tony saw a squirrel hurry by, 
carrying what he thought was a rat 
in its mouth. When he looked clos-
er, Tony realized that it was a baby 
squirrel. The mother squirrel, star~ 
tled by the noise of the drills, had 
decided to abandon her home in 
Silliman. She carefully moved three 
of her babies, one at a time, from a. 
tree in the courtyard to one outside 
the Wall Street · gate 
away from 
. the noise of drills and hammers. 


As Tony packs up a ·vacuum 
cleaner in Berkeley's south court-
yard, a wistful expression crosses 
his face. There are a few squirrels 
who run around the courtyard 
here, he says, but it's not the same. 
"I fed a couple of them, but they'-re 
not used to me." 

Though separated from his 
squirrels, Tony is at least able to 
reunite with his former co-work-
ers on occassion: he helps Emile 
empty the trash every _ morning in 
Calhoun. "We all stay in touch," 
says Ricky. They visit each other 
on breaks; sometimes meeting on 
Broadway. Tyrese, who is cur-
rently recovering from an opera-
tion on his knee, calls Ricky every 
day. Monique, who recently had 
hip surgery, speaks regularly with 
Roseanne, who keeps in touch with 
Nicole over in Timothy Dwight 
and Alice over in Branford. 


Stu, too, paid Alice a visit last 
week. As Silliman's head chef, a po-
sition he rose to over his 23 years 
of cooking in its kitchen, Stu would 
say he misses the college most of all. 
He's honored to have been invited 
by Master Krauss to cook for Silli-
manders in Commons each Thurs-
day, but says that this once-a-week 
glimpse of his former community 
makes him miss it all the more. He 
wears his Silliman hat to work every 
day, with "CHEF STU'' stitched 
on the back, and he just had a new 
cap made. Do his Morse-Stiles col-
leagues think that, months into his 
employment at another kitchen, 
he ought to leave the hat at home? 
"None of them would ask me to do 
that," he says immediately. "They 
know I'm a Sillimander." 

They all miss the students, too. 
Stu remembers teaching Karen how 
to brew her own beer. Roseanne re-
members how she'd save grapes for 
Isaac when she knew he'd be com-
ing to dinner late. Emile, a devout 
Catholic, remembers praying each 
morning with Aaron, a devout Jew. 
She wants him to become a rabbi, 
or a lawyer~ or, better yet, both. 

Mostly, though, they miss 
each other. "It's more or less a 
family," says Ricky. "When you 
got a problem, it's their problem, 
too." He puts the finishing touch-
es on a sink in a top-floor bath-
room in Morse. "I like it here," he 
says, then his voice softens · "but 
I want to go home." 

-David Zax 
Illustrations by Adriane Quinlan 


**Title: Building a wall around education.**
**Author: Amy Rothschild**
**Page number(s): 11-12**

Building a wall around education. 
by Amy Rothschild 
sk Chris Alexander about the problem with Ster-
ling Memorial Library, and he'll point her out. 
'<There she is 
the lady who hassles us," he whis-
pers, as a uniformed guard with hair as shiny as her shoes 
struts into the farthest alcove of the library and narrows 
her eyes on the six computers open to 'non-Yalies. Few 
students know that she is a key actor in a quiet drama 
playing out on the lamp-lit stage of Sterling. According 
to Alexander, who comes to the library for a quiet respite 
after a workday as a roofer, this guard has explicitly stated 
that it is unfair for students, who pay so much money 
to attend Yale, to be forced to share library access with 
the broader New Haven community. uThere are signs 
November 2006 
all over the place saying you can use the computer 
for twenty minutes," he says. u After fifteen minutes, 
she's asking you to leave.'' 

On August 2Jrd, the administration posted fly-
ers announcing that, starting September 6th, entry 
would be <<restricted to persons with current Yale 
University or Library issued identification cards, 
Sunday through Friday after 6 p.m.'' From this 
hour until closing, bookworms entering the library 
must slide a Yale ID through a groove on the side 
of the stainless steel turnstile under the watch of a 
uniformed guard. For the privileged few, the ma-
chine beeps, flashes a light, and then lowers its met-
al arms. It sounds like a robot regurgitating, and ies 
equally personable. 

According to Danuta Nitecki, the associate uni-
versity librarian for public services, the contraption 
cost the University thousands of dollars. Nitecki, 
who has the warm ~emeanor of a grade-school li-
brarian, says that the expensive scanner is part of 
an experiment in preparation for the re-opening 
of Cross Campus · Library, where 
similar scanners may one day grace 
the underground entrance. 
Ni-
tecki stresses that, though every ef-
fort is made to extend resources to 
the New Haven community to 
what she terms cc researchers in the 
world" Sterling and CCL are not 
· public libraries. (Yale houses its col-
lection of government documents, 
which is available to the general 
public by federal law, far from cen-
tral campus, in the Seeley G. Mudd 
Library on Mansfield Road.) 

In previous years, CCL not only 
opened its doors indiscriminately, 
but also furnished some two-dozen 
computer stations with unrestricted 
internet access. Last year, library 
patrons complained about limited 
seating and computer availability. 
The staff receives so few complaints 
that, Nitecki says, ccwe take them to 
heart." As a result, library admin-
istrators placed further limitations 
on access during the evening hours, 
when more students traffic in and 
out of the library. 

But even before the clock strikes 
six, some guards stringently enforce 
the twenty minute policy. On a Fri-
day afternoon, New Haven resident 
J eraya, 16, finds herself booted from 
MySpace despite the .fact that two-
12 
thirds of the computers idle, ready 
for any student or cc researcher in 
the world" to claim. A guard with 
a large, soft . face frantically treads 
back and forth in the nave, like a toy 
car gaining traction. He stands over 
Jeraya, spitting <<Supervisor!'' into 
his walkie-talkie. When J eraya must 
finally trade MySpace for some 
space outside, the guard turns and 
sighs to a librarian on duty. ccBoy, is 
she trouble." 

cci knew it was going to hap-
pen," New Haven resident Jim 
Moore said of his recently restricted 
access. The once-homeless Moore, 
who currently volunteers at the 
Downtown Evening Soup Kitchen, 
has fr-equented Yale's central librar-
ies for years; he prefers them to the 
New Haven Public Library, where 
teenagers gather after school to 
trade gossip and obscenities, and 
where computer users have always 
faced time restrictions. He foresaw 
that the closing of Cross Campus 
Library might include not only the 
building itself, but also its policy 
of allowing _members of the public 
like himself to use the computers 
to conduct research, check e-mail, 
or play cards on gatning sites into 
the early· morning. Although out-
side users usually follow proper 
library conduct, there have been 
times when Yale Security or the 
University Police were summoned 
to ask individuals engaging in dis-
ruptive behavior such as creating 
too much noise or looking at por-
nography to leave. «The homeless 
have ruined it for themselves," says 
Mike, another formerly homeless 
Yale library-user. «We're not all an-
gels," he admits. 

Nitecki argues that, especially 
with the renovations, there is sim-
ply too great a demand for library 
resources. Installations such as the 
ID scanner are not unique to Yale, 
she points out. ccM y impression is 
that among the Ivy Leagues, we are 
the most open." Indeed, access to 
Columbia and Harvard's main li-
braries hinges on a University ID. 
«I'ffi very comfortable that we are 
still generous," she says. <'Eight 
thirty to six p.m. is quite a bit 
of time." 

These hours do not irnpress 
Gregory Morton, a member of the 
Class of 2000 who deplores the 
changes. He called last year's open 
library access ccone of Yale's best 
contributions to the city." Current-
. '
ly a graduate student studying An-
thropology and social work :at the - · 
University of Chicago, Morton says 




**Live Like a Celt Day**
**Author: Ben Lasman**
**Page number(s): 15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Pick up a sword and shield it's "Live Like a Celt Day." 
By Ben Lasman 
t's nine a.m. on a frigid Saturday morning, and 
Cyril May cannot find his cow horn. The bony-
faced, pony-tailed director of Yale Recycling and 
co-founder of the Celtic Learning Project hurls 
jagged spearheads, tore necklaces, and homemade leath-
er buckles across a frosty lawn in an attempt to locate 
the errant bovine accessory. "Cattle were very impor-
tant to the Celts,'' he says, brandishing a Beanie Baby 
bull and mooing for emphasis. "This is what they used 
for currency." 

At the Ancient Order of Hibernian's Hall in Me-
riden, Connecticut, Cyril and his fellow volunteers-
mostly middle-aged, bundled in layers of polar fleece 
and traditional tartan tunics 
arrange artifacts and 
shirts in preparation for the arrival of local families at 
today's ''Live Like a Celt Day,~' an event intended to 
teach children about the Celtic tradition. Hibernian's 
Hall, dull gray and plastered with bulletins for upcom-
ing poker nights and potluck suppers, evokes a mutated 
Winnebago, its rooms jutting out at unpredictable an-
gles. The half-wilted lawn is strewn with primitive ac-
coutrements and bordered by squat, tarp-strewn sheds. 
In the parking lot around back, a battered dumpster has 
been proudly pasted with a glittery shamrock. Today's 
event marks the first official collaboration between the 
Ancient Order of Hibernians, an Irish Catholic frater-
nal society established in 1565, and the Celtic Learning 
Project. Yet, despite its obsession with history, none of 
its members knows when the Celtic Learning Project 
began. "We started organizing sometime in the past five 
or ten years," offers Betty, one of the group's founders. 

The members are here today thanks to Cyril. ''He 
came down here one night to tell a story," remembers 
Stanley, a fellow member of the Order dressed in a green 
Jets sweatshirt and covered in blue face-paint, "and I 
thought it would be great to have him do something 
like that for the kids." Although performing Celtic tales 
ovember 2006 
comprises a large portion of the Learning Project's ac-
tivities, Cyril often has to edit the legends for younger 
audiences: "These stories aren't rated X," he says. "But 
they are usually rated R." 

. Dan, a blacksmith affiliated with the Ancient Celt-
ic Clans reenactment group, woke at five this morning 
to make the three-hour drive from his home in upstate 
New York. His day of living like a Celt begins with 
building an open tent on the grass and hollowing out 
a shallow divot in the earth to act as his furnace. He 
cradles a tiny iron cube in his calloused hands. "That's 
my anvil," he says, resting the lump atop a log jammed 
vertically into the ground, "The Celts liked it because 
it was highly portable." 

A specialist in what he calls "experimental archae-
ology,'' Dan meets with fellow enthusiasts weekly. Us-
ing items disinterred from excavations as models, the 
blacksmith and his assistants painstakingly recreate 
artifacts from scratch, producing functional and accu-
rate facsimiles for use in re-enactments and artisanal 
demonstrations. According to Dan, when anthropolo-
gists discovered a carnax, or centuries-old horn, in an 
Irish bog, a Scottish trombonist spent an estimated 
10,000 pounds constructing a working model of the 
instrument. "We'd love to get one of those," Dan says, 
a wistful expression crossing his face. 

As the Society's resident artist, Betty specializes 
in fabricating its painted shields and wire neckbands. 
"Once, we painted figures of Boudicca and Cuchullin 
with the faces cut out so kids could get their photo-
graphs taken," she recalls. "They like that male-female 
thing." While there is no comparable setup at today's 
event, Betty has devised an equally compelling assort-
ment of interactive stations to teach the many facets of 
antediluvian Celtic existence: "The Fort," a trampo-
line-sized, waist-high ring draped in cloth and flanked 
by a tninute, wooden loom, borders the concrete park-


**Yale Library's ID Scanner**
**Author: Amy Rothschild**
**Page number(s): 13**

• 
-
that though "the University may 
not have intended to provide a space 
for the education of non-students, 
including people who were home-
less," the generosity's uqjntentional 
nature "was what made the act spe-
cial: it came without strings or self-
interest on the university's part.,, 
During his time at Yale, Morton co-
founded Harmony Place and Re-
spect Line, two projects of the Yale 
Homelessness and Hunger Action 
Project. While Morton concedes 
that student access must remain 
the library system's top priority, he 
does not believe the University,s 
devotion to its students should 
preclude it from sharing resources. 
He is quick to point out that Yale 
receives ample .funds from the gov-
ernment and should use some of 
those resources to lower its metal 
bars and welcome the public inside. 
The ID scanner acts as a barrier to 
this sort of welcome, and Morton, 
referencing the French philosopher 
Michel Foucault, says, celt creates a 
ritualistic reenactment of status. If 
every day you get in and get kicked 
out at a certa1n t1me, your pos1t1on 
is inscribed." 
Meanwhile, Yale students ~re 
growing accustomed to the turn-
stile. It's ccinconsequential/' said 
Sophomore Ari Baraban. ccEv-
eryone knows it's there." Where 
Morton sees a ritual reenactment 
of status, Nitecki has seen "expres-
sions of delight" on the faces of stu-
dents when the cc gentle bar" lowers 
for them. 

But there are others who find 
the bar emblematic of encroaching 
injustices. "When things go unchal-
lenged," Morton says, ccthey simply 
become natural facts." 
Amy Rothschild is a sophomore 
in Silliman College. 
November 2006 

**Live Like a Celt Day**
**Author: Ben Lasman**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
ix children come to "Live Like a Celt Day." That number dwindles to five when one boy complains that the traditional costume thrust upon him is too scratchy. Attendance, however, does not seem to concern Cyril. He blows his horn to gather the modest crowd now outfitted in tunics and face paint for a nature walk along the outskirts of the yard. ''Station. One," set up along the embankment of a drainage ditch, depicts the Celtic reverence for streams and salmon. Cyril shows a computer printout of a fish to the kids. "Does anyone know what the salmon meant to the Celts?" Connor, a homeschooled eight-year-old who just finished studying ancient Irish history, has the correct answer: "Knowledge." 

Moving on to the next stage of the walk, Cyril explains the importance of animals to the Celtic tribes. "Can anyone spot the fox in the woods?'' he asks, motioning towards the thorny underbrush. "I see,,, calls Connor, pointing into the woods where Stanley has set up a cardboard replica of a fox. After congratulating Connor, Cyril remarks that wolves used to live in the Connecticut woods, but became largely extinct due to hunting. "Is there a fake wolf?'' asks a little blonde girl with glasses, scanning the forest intently. 

As the group arrives on the far end of the lawn, Cyril begins to lead the children into the trees. "Be on the lookout for raiders,,, he warns portentously. Several tense seconds pass before Lawrence bursts forth from the leaves, waving a stic~ and roaring. A little girl screams. "Kill 'em all," bellows the faux-barbar-ian, charging from his hideout. "We'll enslave the children and kill the rest!,, Cyril ushers the children from the underbrush and runs with them into the yard. His prey out of reach, Lawrence pivots and lumbers dejectedly back into the woods . 

Once the children have caught their breath, the lesson continues. Cyril explains that for Celts, the wheel was a symbol for war. "Does anyone think they know why?'' he asks. Connor's hand shoots up. "Maybe because they thought war was a cycle that never ended and always kept happening," he says. Cyril looks to the adults mingling on the outskirts of the parking lot: "We've got a philosopher here." He had always thought it was because the Celts rode chariots into battle. 

In the meantime, ·· Betty has prepared bowls of oatmeal to demonstrate how the Celts might have made crackers. As the kids sit on a concrete ledge facing the grill, she arranges her cooking utensils and describes the history of classic Irish cuisine. ''Behold the ancient Celtic Tupperware," she announces, producing a plastic container full of biscuits from a nearby box and placing it before her audience. The children, apparently less concerned with learning the process than eating lunch, pound oatmeal into paste and shake mason jars filled with cream. "We don't know how the Celts actually made butter," whispers Cyril to Dan, "But this is fun for the kids." 

As one little girl peruses the stack of Celtic-themed coloring books for sale, her mother asks Cyril how she can pay him for his services. "Pay me?" the robed educator laughs. "Pay me in cattle, of course."'


**The MacArthur Professor**
**Author: Daniel Jordan**
**Page number(s): 18**

n Indonesia, loggers have placed a five hundred dollar bounty on Professor Lisa Curran's head. 

Back in the U.S., however, she is viewed as a luminary rather than as a target. This year, she was awarded a MacArthur ''Genius Grant" five hundred thousand dollars to use for her work, no strings attached. 

Thanks to the grant, she can now afford to be caught by the loggers one thousand times. 

For the wanted woman, finding a place to sleep is the least of her worries in Indonesia; David Butman, one of Curran's students at the Yale School of Forestry & Environmental Studies, recalls finding unconventional lodgings with the professor while hiking on a kuda kuda, or logging trail. ''Our beds consisted of empty rice bags slung between two poles just cut from the surrounding forest," he described. ''The sounds of Orangutans cast us off to sleep at night." The pair camped together while traveling through Kalimantan, the region of Indonesia that Curran has studied for 22 years. 

''I know the supply town in Indonesia better than I know where I live now," says Curran, a professor of tropical resources at Yale. In the second week of November, Curran will once again travel to Kalimantan. Before she leaves, she'll need new booster shots. ''But I don't get sick anymore," she insists. ''I've had it all." 

a few years ago, Curran discovered an interaction between two natural phenomena in Kalimantan. One of these occurrences, "masting," is a period of heightened seed production by the island's canopy trees that occurs every three to four years. The other event is the El Niiio Southern Oscillations, a climatic cycle that affects weather in the tropical Pacific. After studying both phenomena, Curran found that the canopy trees synchronized their seed production with this weather cycle, and that, because of this simultaneity, millions of wild pigs feast during years when El Niiio occurs. "These pigs are 150 kilos. They're huge, and they migrate over the landscape in search of




**Title: The Kalimantan Forests**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
these seeds. So when the seeds come 
out, they all breed and start .moving. 
It's the biggest . migration outside 
the wildebeests in Africa." 

Illegal logging of canopy trees, 
however, interferes with this natu-
ral system. Using field studies and 
satellite images, Curran has shown 
that, from 1985 to 2001, Kaliman-
tan's protected lowland forests 
shrank by more than fifty percent. 

Since fewer trees are left to produce 
the newly fallen seeds, the pigs' 
feasting curbs the forests' regenera-
tion. "I've been blessed and cursed 
in a way," she explains, "because for 
the first six or eight years, I was in 
a beautiful national park, just bath-
ing in the river in a remote place 
that was absolutely beautiful. Then 
later on, I started to see the place 
getting destroyed." 

ost of this devastation oc-
curred under the regime of 
Haji Mohammad Suharto, Indo-
nesia's notorious former president, 
who resigned in 1998 after three 
years of civil unrest. ~~If you think of 
Mobutu or Marcos or Baby Doc," 
Curran says, ''They're like chump 
change compared to this guy." 

Since Suharto's resignation and 
the forests' decline, the government 
has found an alternative source 
of capital in oil palm trees. Palm 
oil 
an ingredient used in products 
from Godiva chocolate to Nabisco 
crackers 
generates revenue for an 
economy in need of a marketable 
resource. But Curran dislikes the 
degree of industrialization neces-
sary to extract palm oil. She de-
scribes the current situation: "Say 
• 
you lived there. You have your own 
farms, and you have coffee and rub-
ber, and you're doing okay in your 
village of two hundred nouseholds. 
The bulldozer shows up, and these 
guys take all your land. You have 
no legal means of recourse." She 
shakes her head. "The regime gives 
you two hectares, and you plant 
November 2006 
town in Indonesia 
better than I know 
where I live now," 
says Curran, a pro-
resources at Yale. 
this oil palm. The regime owns it, 
and you owe them loans. Essen-
tially they're taking self-sufficient 
people and turning them into in-
dentured servants." 

As her research acquired a more 
political tone, Curran began to pub-
licize her results with · the hope of 
inducing social reform. Since her 
first paper was published in Science 
in 1999, numerous groups, such as 
the Rainforest Action Network and 
Greenpeace, have applied her find-
ings to their own environmental 
campaigns. Logging in Kalimantan, 
while disastrous, serves as an exam-
ple that might rescue the Amazon 
from a similar fate. Unfortunately, 
it is too late to save the Kalimantan 
forests, as Curran recognized the 
connection between the two phe-
nomena after the forests had begun 
to disappear. 

Curran's white skin and auburn 
hair clearly mark her as a foreigner 
in Indonesia, but she has managed to 
earn acceptance overseas. "Because 
Kalimantan is on the outskirts and 
Jakarta and the capital cities are not, 
I learned to speak in the backwaters 
of Indonesia. rm always teased that 
I speak like a local hick." She doesn't 
mind the teasing; she believes a sense 
of humor has helped her blend in. 

One presentation that Curran gave 
to an Indonesian audience solicited 
a slew of laughs when she called one 
of her tools a "seed trap." After she 
was done, she learned why every-
one had chuckled 
"seed trap" is 
Indonesian slang for male genitalia. 
"It's good because it's self-deprecat-
ing," she says. '~You learn in Asian 
culture that you don't brag· about 
yourself. You make funny com-
ments to put yourself lower, so it 
. works very well." 

In a dangerous field like .Cur-
ran's, it's helpful to have a trustwor-
thy crew. To select the students she 
invites on her trips, Curran says, "I 
take people out for a beer. Sense of 
humor is important. Patience is an-
other big deal because in Indonesia, 
you hurry up and wait a lot. It helps 
if you have a little zen." 

This zen helps Curran prevent 
Indonesia's culture of corruption 
from interfering with her research. 
Kabir Peay, a graduate student who 
worked with Curran in Kalimantan, 
remembers an occasion when their 
group was held against its will at a 
palm oil processing plant. "The eve-
ning we arrived," he recalled, "four 
large men · arrived at the plantation 
we were staying at and claimed 
we had broken adat, local law, by 
crossing their village grounds with-
out stopping to pay respects to the 
village head." Holding Curran hos-
tage, the men threatened to expel 
the group and confiscate its scien-
tific equipment. But Curran spent 
hours speaking with them in In-
donesian to negotiate a bargain 
that would enable the group to stay 
and conduct research. "There are 
not many other people that could 
have sat in that room, calmly smok-
ing clove cigarettes and negotiating 
in a foreign language with a group 
of dangerous men that wanted to 
hold us hostage," Peay noted. "~But 
Lisa was able to keep it together and 
do exactly that." 

Daniel Jordan is a freshman in 
Berkeley College. 


**Title: America Wants You**
**Author: Nicole Allan**
**Page number(s): 20-21**

icholas Edward Panza, America wants you. 
Beyond your casual speech, I hear her sing-
ing to your lean rower's body, your gleeful 
enthusiasm. I sense her thirsting to claim your bot-
tled Yalie energy, your Exeter polish and your Ivy · 
gleam 
rooted in a Pasadena past. 

: America, Nick Panza, is soft. Remember when 
she crumbled? It pushed you .over the edge. Now, 
you say, when you hear them talk the softies, the 
liberals 
you get seriously, seriously disturbed. Do 
they love America? Some of them say they do. But 
you, Nick Panza 
you love America. 

our coach once told you, before you leaped into 
your boat and rowed until your lungs flamed, to 
embrace the pain. Nick Panza, you leap in that boat 
and embrace that pain. And you did. You do. It's a 
good thing you call yourself a masochist. 

When you left Yale for the summer and showed 
up for that first day at Officer Candidate School, and 
they emptied your bag onto the hot glinting Virginia 
asphalt, you saw it coming. Hours of pre-dawn pull-
ups and push-ups and sprints and planks. Breakfast , 
lunch, and dinner with a rifle by your side. An end-
less bay of bunks. Disorientation, you describe, all 
the time because, Candidate Panza, battle is any-
thing but order. 

Did you complain? You say Officer Candidate 
School was awesome, the sweetest thing ever. Six 
weeks so sweet you had to go back. You wanted to 
finish right then and there, but you were reclaimed 
by Yale. Its lectures and protests and keggers. If any-
one gives me shit, you said, he's dead. You were hard 
in a sea of soft. 

Back at school, you set up a recruiting table on 
the quad. Semper Fi, . your poster trumpeted, ever 
20 
faithful. The few, the proud, the Marines. Ears cupping 
out from your fuzzed brown hair, you wore your Marine 
t-shirt with your flip-flops and bare tanned legs. A kid 
edged over and said, Thanks, man thank you for what 
you're doing. Another spat out, I hate the military. You 
said, You hate the military? Go join the Taliban. 

One guy read your brochure, looked you in the eye, 
-
said I want to join the Marines. You said great. He said, 
I'm gay. You, Candidate Panza, said I can't help you. 

merica knows you don't come from a "military fam-
. y," as you put it. She knows that, and she wants 
you anyway. She knows they weren't thrilled when you 
told them. You could be an investment banker, you recall 
them saying. Eighty thousand. your first year. You an-
swered that OCS is nonbinding. You still could be. 

After all, America's too smart to gobble you, Nick 
Panza, up all in one bite. She'll savor you week by tnonth 
by year; she got you for six weeks after your sophotnore 
; 
. 
year for Platoon Leaders Class at the 
Quantico base, and she'll get you for 
another six this summer. She'll even 
pay you for it. Usually, America de-
mands the summer after junior year 
for your second leg of PLC, but she 
wanted you so very much that she 
let you defer a year. You needed to 
train with your team. By then, if 
you haven't gotten kicked out and 
you, Panza, that'll never happen to 
you she'll have you for six months 
at The Basic School." You'll finally be 
able to shoot the bullets she denied 
you at first, though you've spent 
four months cradling your weapon. 

After fighting for your specialty, 
infantry or law or intelligence or 
tanks or aviation you want intel, 
but things change, America lets you 
change. Once you decide, you"ll 
spend weeks or months getting spe-
cific. Then comes the contract, the 
assignment you'll go anywhere 
and 
everywhere 
hopefully 
where there are terrorists. Three and 
a half years minimum. Technically, 
you could still be an investment 
banker. But America, Nick Panza, is 
used to getting her way. 

ou tell your friends why you 
went to Quantico. When they 
get all political on you, because col-
lege kids usually do, you can take 
it. Did you vote for Bush? No, but 
everyone knows you're a conser-
vative. You didn't vote for him, 
but you love his America. You are 
quick to declare that you, Nick 
Panza, will support America no 
matter who's running it and who's 
getting bombed. 

You liked being around people 
like yourself. You try to explain 
how the candidates appreciated their 
freedoms, how they didn't take any-
thing for granted you, d never seen 
character like that before. And, let's 
be honest, they were hoots; you'd 
never choked back so many laughs. 

Not many people know how 
funny the military is, but you, Can-
didate Panza, you tell them. You 
keep track of what the Sergeant In-
structors say, and you tell everyone 
you know. Like when anSI explained 
that your M 16 was like a woman in 
black leather she demands respect 
and enjoys pain. Remember that? 

And the SI who told a candidate he 
didn't like guys, but if he kept it up 
he'd stick it in backwards. Ah, wasn't 
that the same one who asked, ~don't 
you want to feel what it's like to pull 
a man's heart out of his chest while 
it's still beating? That was damn 
funny, you say. 

id you like fitting in, Candi-
date Panza? Mos candidates 
do. You admit that you understand 
why the military sticks to Don't Ask 
Don't Tell. You do love your meat-
and -potatoes, after all 
a delicious 
side to your matching M16"s and 
masculinity, your we're-not-black-
, 
h' 
' 
we re-not-w tte-we re-green mot-
to. You kept it hush-hush that you 
went to Yale. It didn't end up being 
a big deal, but your bunkrnates went 
to Iowa State and Valley Forge, so 
you mostly stayed quiet. You're 
just a candidate, you told yourself, 
just one more candidate giving your 
summer to America. 

When you boarded your flight 
home, Nick Panza, in a buzz-cut 
and a Marine t-shirt, you were 
alone. It was the most humbling 
feeling ever, you remember. You 
were so, so full of accomplish-
ment 
you grin and grin just re-
calling it now that people stopped 
you, and thanked you. Maybe they 
sensed your hardness, Candidate 
Panza, alongside their softness. Was 
that when you knew you belonged 
to America? When you began to 
declare that you wanted to do your 
part? Was that when you knew that 
· once a Marine, you, Nick Panza, 
would always be a Marine? 

Nicole Allan, a sophomore in 
Calhoun College, is Production 
Manager ofThe New Journal. 



**A Yale Grad Spurns Academia to Write Trashy Romance Novels**
**Author: Helen Eckinger**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
My senior essay, "Patriarchal Society and Female Promiscuity in Jane Austen," is due in exactly three weeks. I can only imagine the look of horror on my advisor's face if I marched into her office and announced that I was blowing it off in favor of writing a sequel to Pride and Prejudice. Yale alum Lauren Willig '99, however, did just that. And she's completely unrepentant.

Four years into pursuing a doctorate in English History at Harvard, Willig abandoned her plans to become a professor. She became a law school student by day, and the author of unabashed historical chick-lit by night. Three years later, Willig is a first year associate at a New York law firm, and the author of three novels: The Secret History of the Pink Carnation, The Masque of the Black Tulip, and The Deception of the Emerald Ring.


Although Willig wasn't smote by the gavel of Harvard academia, her professors were underwhelmed by her newfound literary ambitions.
''Some of them who were interested in making history more accessible were excited about it,", she said from her office in New York. "But most of them just thought it was a great big joke."


Though she departed from the academic world, Willig's novels are full of tidbits gleaned from her years at Yale and Harvard. Her first novel, The Secret History of the Pink Carnation, is mostly set in a Parisian mansion. As a Renaissance Studies major at Yale, Willig designed just such a mansion for a course in Renaissance architecture. Years later, while writing Pink Carnation, she pulled out her old notebook and transformed her humble homework into the palace of "Edouard de Balcourt." All of Willig's work is punctuated with references to poetry jokes about Keats and Wordsworth which she attributes to a stint in English 125. And, of course, Willig encountered the rudiments of her romantic heroes and villains at Yale.

After attending a Manhattan all-girls high school, Willig scouted her new co-ed environment for characters. "So much of the male stuff comes from long discussions with male friends who were like 'this is how men think'," she said. "Yale was such a great resource for mining the male psyche. I mean, you'd have the guys from  through the fire door in the common room until two in the morning."


At the end of her tenure as a doctoral candidate, Willig spent a year conducting research in England; that year was undoubtedly the biggest academic influence on her work. Her novel opens in the present day as Eloise Kelly, also a Harvard doctoral candidate, roots through the British Museum's archives for information about aristocratic British spies during the Napoleonic Wars. She stumbles upon a goldmine in letters belonging to a Mrs. Selwick-Alderly, whose ancestor, Richard Selwick, was Napoleon's Egyptologist by day and the Purple Gentian, Britain's most dangerous spy by night. But although the Selwick family files are rife with information on the Purple Gentian and his predecessor, the Scarlet Pimpernel, they also contain references to the Pink Carnation, the last and greatest of the troika of British aristocratic spies and the only one who was never unmasked.


The Pink Carnation follows Eloise's quest to discover the identity of its titular spy. She begins by following the odyssey of Amy Halcourt. Orphaned and exiled during the French Revolution, Amy returns home to France at the request of her brother, Edouard, who has become an intimate of Napoleon. Amy, however, has a secret motive: to find the Purple Gentian whose identity is still unknown and join his league of spies. Once she encounters Richard Selwick, the predictable comedy of mistaken identities ensues, leading to an inevitable climax replete with poisoned brandy, an antique pistol, and an iron maiden. There are, of course, the obligatory sex scenes—this is, after all, a romance novel—but far fewer than in most novels of its ilk; Willig clearly prefers international intrigue to bodice ripping.


The novel's biggest problem is its use of Eloise's modern-day story as a framing device. The historical sequences are told as Eloise imagines them, producing a number of unrealistic—albeit amusing—linguistic anachronisms. It's doubtful that a nineteenth-century would-be rapist would utter "Come on! You know you want me!" to his prey. It's equally dubious that members of Britain's most elite corps of spies would refer to the Assistant Minister of Police's personal interrogation room as the "extra-special torture chamber."


Similarly anachronistic is the lack of decorum displayed by the novel's female characters. Amy paces up and down the deck of a ship staffed by drunken sailors in only her slip, and arranges a clandestine midnight meeting in the Jardin du Luxembourg with the man she's sure is the Purple Gentian. Part of this can be ascribed to Amy's naivete, which at times borders on idiocy, but her utter lack of propriety is mirrored in the behavior of her peers. Toward the novel's end, Richard's younger sister, Henrietta, emerges from her bed chamber wearing only a "diaphanous" nightgown into a room filled with several of her brother's friends. It's enough to give Jane Austen an aneurysm.


There's plenty to poke fun at in The Pink Carnation. Considering his reputation as Britain's most mercilessly efficient spy, the Purple Gentian proves to be utterly inept once Amy arrives on the scene. Perhaps it's because he's besotted with her and, admittedly, preventing her from meddling her way into danger is a full-time job, but it's hard to believe that a spy who falls for the most obvious traps could be England's last hope at stemming a French invasion.


But it's not fair to judge Willig's work with the same scrutiny as bonafide historical fiction. Hers is mass-market fiction, pure and simple, and while it can be inane at times, it's also deliciously fun. Perhaps because they're such a vital part of our education, we tend to view books in an all-or-nothing light: we either praise them as literature or dismiss them as trash. Then, as soon as we are done ridiculing Nora Roberts, we run off to watch the latest episode of Grey's Anatomy. I, personally, was so enthralled by The Pink Carnation that I completely forgot to get my weekly Grey's fix. Value is relative to a book's intended purpose; here, the purpose is to entertain. In the same vein, Willig's newest book, The Deception of the Emerald Ring, was released on November 16th. And a few weeks from now, I know I'll put aside my stodgy Austen criticism to read her newest tale of "extra-special torture chambers," bumbling heroines, and not-so-secret agents.


Helen Eckinger, a senior in Trumbull College, is a Managing Editor of The New Journal


**hots in the Da**
**Author: Julia Hickey**
**Page number(s): 24**

Reflections of the day's fading light at New Haven's Lighthouse Point.



**Title: Star-crossed brothers (in-law) Romeo and Giuseppe battle it out over groceries.**
**Author: Sophia Lear**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Giuseppe was at home on 
Linden Street in New Ha-
ven's East Rock neighbor-
hood . when Romeo called. He left 
his house and raced toward Orange 
Street. As he neared "Romeo and 
Giuseppe's," the gourmet Italian 
grocery store he and Romeo had 
run together for over a decade, he 
could see Romeo standing outside. 
Giuseppe knew that figure by heart. 
It was the man he had spent every 
day with for the last 14 years: his 
countryman from the fields of Italy, 
his companion in pre-dawn trips to 
New York's produce markets. All 
of the dealings with nasty distribu-
tors, the firing of unruly employees, 
the lifting of crates, the arranging of 
food displays, the placating of un-
happy customers, the sweeping of 
floors, came flooding back to him 
as he saw the hulking figure stand-
ing beneath the shop's white awning. 
Giuseppe came face to face with 
Romeo, and Romeo told his paisan, 
his kin, his partner, that Giuseppe 
had to go. Overnight, Romeo had 
changed the locks on the Store. 
''It took me right off my feet. 
I had nothing left," Giuseppe says. 
"Fourteen years of my life work. And 
the goals that I had always dreamed 
of when I was young. And finally, 
you know, suddenly,· 'boom!' It 
just shut off. I just went, you know, 
kind of blind. I locked myself into 
myself. I couldn't think of nothing 
more than revenge." 


I
t is 5:30 p.m. on the last day of 
October, and night has descended 
on New Haven. On Orange Street, 
between Humphrey and Bishop, the 
early darkness catches shoppers at 
Nica's Market off-guard: Is it dinner 
time already? A graduate student 
comparing two types of goat cheese 
throws both in his basket, a little 
boy in search of the perfect potato is 
scooped up by his mother, and two 
young employees at the back coun-
ter rush to fill demands for chicken 
piccatta, marinated olives, lasagna, 
and balls of fresh mozzarella. 
And there, standing next to the 
meat counter, beaming over the 
scene, is Giuseppe--or Joe, as he's 
known in the neighborhood. His 
face is sharp, bird-like: His nose 
juts out strongly; his eyes are dark 
and focused; his skin is taut; his 
mustache is perfectly pointed. In 
motion-and Giuseppe never stops 
moving-he radiates a warmth and 
exuberance that soften his harsh fea-
tures. He is fit, and when his name 
is shouted from the other end of the 
store, he darts off in its direction, his 
sing-song voice echoing through the 
aisles. Giuseppe is Nica's life force, 
and the store is his. While the long 
hours and stress of running an inde-
pendent grocery might damage the 
health of others, Giuseppe's happi-
ness seems directly proportionate to 
his level of industry. 
At a similar store a few blocks 
down the road, 14 years of history 
have been revised; the labels on the 
tomato sauce, the spice bottles, the 
olive oil, and the awning now read 
"Romeo and Cesare's." A blow-up 
black-and-white portrait of Romeo 
and Cesare has been affixed to the 
wall above the deli. Side by side in 
the picture, the brothers' doughy 
faces melt seamlessly into their necks, 
but where Cesare's soft features and 
wide brows convey a gentle, kind 
demeanor, Romeo's twinkling eyes 
and hard mouth offer a mischievous 
contrast. 
It is Romeo's day off. Outside 
the store, general manager Ben 
Minichino, a born schmoozer, rear-
ranges outdoor seating and greets 
customers. "What's up, boss?" he 
says to an old man wearing a sports 
jacket and a straw hat. Inside, Ce-
sare mans the register while a wom-
an holding an infant in a carrot cos-
tume consults a shopping list and a 
man fumbles for change to pay for a 
jar of sun-dried tomatoes. 
At dusk on Halloween, each 
store is completely self-involved, ig-
norant of the parallel scene playing 
out mere blocks away. The proximi-
ty of the two paisan, and their deter-
mination to ignore each other raises 
the question: What could ever have 
divided two lives so completely en-
twined? 
Although the story tore through 
the East Rock neighborhood at the 
time, the cause of the split remained 
obscured. Toni Dorfman, a Yale the-
ater studies professor and patron of 
Romeo and Giuseppe's, remembers 
returning from a trip to England to 
discover the schism. The account, 
she says, became more and more lu-
rid in the telling. "Something about 



**Title: The Orange Street Feud**
**Author: Sophia Lear**
**Page number(s): 28-30**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
•
a knife across the throat," she recalls.

Both Romeo and Giuseppe
avoid specifics. "Do I have to go
into all this detail?" Giuseppe snaps
in a rare display of frustration. Romeo
says, "I never tried, you know
the truth, I never tried to do some-
thing bad ... to ~nyone." Giuseppe
will relate ,his emotional reaction to
the breakup, b~t even that requires
a disclaimer: ''This is not a story I
tell around."

Romeo and Giuseppe are the
Montague and Capulet of Orange
Street: two men born in the same
year, nurtured by the same land, who
crossed the same ocean and tried to
make their fortunes together, only
to be wrenched ·apart by jealousy
ahd betrayal. But their story has
remained shrouded in omerta
an
Italian principle of silence that Ro-
meo and Giuseppe carried · to New
Haven from the old country-
until now.

Romeo Simeone and Giuseppe
Sabino were born in 1950 in
Formicola, Italy, a srpall town in
the province of Caserta, about 45
kilometers north of Naples. Gi-
useppe imagines he emerged from .
the womb already hard at work.
"I was born working. I was born
working with my father in the fields
of Italy," he says. While helping to
plant olives, tomatoes, grapes, and
chestnuts on his family's small farm,
Giuseppe developed an impeccable
knowledge of vegetables.

Nearby, in another section of
the comuni, Romeo rein to work at
his uncle's grocery store each day
after school. When his uncle made
trips to the marke.t, he would bring
young Romeo along. "I saw the
mushrooms, and the chestnuts
all
of those stuff like that. And I learn,"
Romeo remembers aloud in his
warm and raspy voice. Even as chil-
dren, Romeo and Giuseppe had al-
ready begun to cultivate their trade.

When Giuseppe was 16, he left
Formicola and immigrated to New
Haven with his mother and older
brother, Vincent. It wasn't a clean
break. Giuseppe took on three jobs
to support his family
at a soda bot-
tling plant, a pocketbook shop, and
a steel warehouse
and his heart
remained in Formicola. Giuseppe
and his brother frequently returned
to their hometown on vacation, and
back home the brothers re-kin-
dled old romances. They married
their sweethearts in Italy, and then
brought their young brides back to
New Haven. When Romeo's sis-
ter, Josephine, married Giuseppe's
brother, Vincent, the two men be-
came family.


In 1974, Romeo and his brother
Cesare arrived in New Haven with
nothing. Meanwhile, Giuseppe had
worked his way up to the position
of general manager of the steel ware-
house, so he helped the Simeone


--- Page 29 ---

brothers settle in: ccwe found them
jobs. Everything. We took them in
as our own family," Giuseppe re-
calls ruefully.

In 1982, Giuseppe moved his
family which now included daugh-
ter Rosanna and son Antonio
back
to Formicola. Seven years later, af-
ter building a house and opening
a grocery store in his native town,
Giuseppe experienced a change of
heart: "I figured my kids had more
opportunities in America than in
Italy." And so Giuseppe returned,
only to find the roles were reversed:
Now, he had a wife and two kids
but no work, while Romeo was
running "Romeo's Imports," a suc-
cessful Italian trade store on Grand
Avenue, in the Wooster Square area
November 2006
of New Haven.

According to Giuseppe, it was
then that Romeo tipped him off
about the Orange Street property.
But, Giuseppe insists that cc original-
ly it was supposed to be only mine.
And my fan1ily's. So we put all our
efforts in, to build the business up.
And Romeo, he said, 'I'll help you
to start it. Because there was a re-
lationship between family, a family
relation, I thought nothing of it."

They never put anything on paper.
Romeo remembers things dif-
ferently. He claims that he sold the
Grand Avenue store, moved his
business to Orange Street, and then
let Giuseppe in on the enterprise
because he was family. "That's why
he was, we give, we make a partner,
we make
"Romeo, who struggles
with English, gives up and cuts to
the chase. "It was a big mistake!"
he says, and then laughs impish-
ly, as if admitting something he
-shouldn't have.

Both men seem to have shut out
any memory of the 14 years they,
their wives, and their kids labored
together to make a vibrant, intimate
place for the neighborhood to buy
gounnet food. The sour end makes
those times when Romeo and Gi-
useppe devoted their lives to each
29


--- Page 30 ---

Their story has remained of this purchase, it must, at the very
h
d d ·
least, have been surreptitious; for
. S rou e zn omerta an as soon as Romeo learned of the
acquisition he flew into a rage, and
Italian principle o si-
lence that Romeo and
immediately began planning to oust
.
hts partner of 14 years.· Not long
Gzuseppe carrzed to New after Giuseppe bought (the future)
Haven
Nica's, Romeo stood at t?e door of
their grocery and told Gtuseppe he
could never enter the store again.
other impossible to revisit.

ut listening·to Giuseppe and Ro-
meo talk, a rough sketch of the
events leading up to the cataclysmic
moment emerges. According to Gi-
useppe, trouble had been brewing
from the very beginning: "As soon
as they came in, hell started. Every-
body was robbing everybody." Gi-
useppe keeps the accusations gen-
eral; but he paints· the theft more as
fistfuls of cash snatched from the
register that both Romeo and Gi-
useppe's wives and children worked
than doctored receipts or 'dubious
accounting. The treachery lived
right at the surface, right among the
melanzana, broccolini, and cavol-
fiore, and Giuseppe knew it.

Just as the duplicity within the
aisles of Romeo and Giuseppe's
reached a fever pitch, Giuseppe
learned about an empty store prop-
erty just a few blocks away. Giuseppe
had a minor real estate business
he
owned a few houses around the
neighborhood and when he asked
his children if he should buy the·
building, they said yes. Giuseppe
does not clarify exactly what he in-
tended to do with the store; Peter
DeRose, who owned yet another
Italian market on Orange Street at
the time, thinks Giuseppe meant the
building to be a gift to his son, An-
tonio, to open his own pizza market
or prepared food store. Giuseppe
connects the purchase to Romeo's
stealing, yet insists it was business as
usual. He had always bought good
properties, and this was just another
one.

Although neighborhood sp~cu­
lation swirls around the intentions

30

Questions abound: why, if Ro-
meo stole so egregiously, did Gi-
useppe not confront his partner
earlier? Why, really, did Joe buy the
other property? And why was this
an unpardonable offense to Romeo?
nThey had' a dispute," Peter DeRose
says when I ask him what happened.
''There's just no other nationality
that will stab you in the back like
the Italians.''

This, in fact; is the key: no one
cares what the details that caused
the drama were
they were merely
the occasion for the histrionic be-
havior that followed. Whatever the
cause of his wrath, Romeo did not
confront Giuseppe to tell him they
should split; he plotted, carefully
and patiently, until the locks ·were
changed overnight, and he could
summon Giuseppe to see what he
had done, the world as his witness.

· For Giuseppe, the details be-
hind the story have dissolved in the
emotional anguish of the betrayal
itself. Four years later, his voice
quickly rises: "I got a call, a phone
call says come down, and they were
all there like vultures. Prepared. To
attack. To attack why? Because I
help my kids buy a building? Why?
My kids are monkeys or something?
They don't have their own families?
Why?" It is the victimization that
haunts Giuseppe, and the story he
cannot keep bottled inside.

For seven or eight months,
Giuseppe barely spoke a word to
anyone. He hid in his house on
Linden Street and considered sui-
cide. On one rare excursion, Gi-
useppe bumped into a woman who
had been a regular at Romeo and
Giuseppe's, and burst into tears in
front of her. <(Imagine it like this,"
she told the sobbing Giuseppe,
"you fell down, and now you have
to get up and walk again." Giuseppe
would never forget those words. He
went home, and, watching his two-
year-old granddaughter Veronica
playing on the floor, taking cautious
baby-steps, Giuseppe knew that he
had to start all over again. Later that
year, Giuseppe opened a brand new
store the shop initially purchased
for his son and named it after his
granddaughter, Nica.

hough Romeo and Giuseppe
have each lost a brother, they
have been sustained by their ex- ·
tended family: their neightborhood.
"For me, it's like one big family,"
Romeo says, his voice dropping its
usual playfulness'. "I appreciate very
much anyone who spends one pen-
ny or ten· dollars when they come in
the door. It's very~ .. it's a pleasure.
It's very nice."

And Giuseppe, burned by his
fellow paisan, still finds himself full
of goodwill. He has made the whole
world his family: "I love everybody.
I learn to love everybody. Colors,
doesn't matter. Ages, doesn't mat-
ter. And different countries, differ-
ent cultures, I love them all, because
every one of them is human."

Throughout the drama, DeRose
has managed to remain friends with
both Romeo and Giuseppe. He has
his own take on the saga. Despite
the fireworks, he argues, little has
changed between Romeo and Gi-
useppe of Formicola, Italy: "They
both still work a lot of hours and
are very dedicated to their work. I
think it's the same thing. But now
they have to compete with each
other, which probably spurs them
both to work even harder."

Sophia Lear is a junior in Ezra
Stiles College.

THE NEw JouRNAL


**Jonathan Edwards College Announcements**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 31**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• 
l
. 
Jonathan Edwards College announces: 
or um:mer 
o
·· entoa 
•· 
rave .tn 
tition 
untors. 
The Robert C. Bates Sununer Traveling Fellowships 
The Howard. William Hilgendorf~ Jr. Fellowship 
The Rhea Plunkett Wagster Memorial Fellowship 
The Lewis P. Curtis Fellowship for Travel 
The Lewis Jeffrey A. '66 Reseach and Travel Fellowship 
The David Baer Fellowship 
The John B. Morse Fellowship 
The Alan S. Tetelman • 58 Fello·wships for Study Abroad 
' 
Awards are available to Yale College Juniors who give evidence that their educa-
tional experience would be significantly enhanced by a project of independent 
sununer study and/or research outside the continental United States. 
Applicatiotts available online: 
. yale.edu/iefp/fellowships/by category /sumn1er.html 
(scroll to the bottom of the page) 
Informational meeting: 
Monday, November 27 
7:00PM 
JE Comtnon Room 
-


**How Falun Gong translates at Yale.**
**Author: Nick Handler**
**Page number(s): 32-33**

mid the din of the construction site on Cross 
Campus and the whirl of students rushing from 
class to class, Min Deng and her companions are 
finding inner peace. Notes of traditional Chinese mu-
sic waft from a small tape recorder, competing with the 
roar of heavy machinery, as the group moves in unison 
through the motions of "Buddha Showing a Thousand 
Hands, the first in a series of mind-body exercises. 
They guide their palms into the lotus position, bring them 
together at the center of their abdomens, raise them to 
the level of their chins, then stretch them skyward. They 
point their fingers toward each other, straighten their legs, 
stretch their bodies, and then, after several seconds, relax. 
Their lower jaws are fixed;- their tongues touch the tops of 
their palettes, and their eyes are gently shut in a gesture of 
controlled serenity as they atte1npt to unblock what they 
term the ''meridians'' of their bodies the invisible chan-
nels through which their qi, or life energy, flows. 
Deng and the others in this group are members of the 
Yale Falun Gong Club. Falun Gong is a Chinese spiri-
November 2006 
.. 
-~ 
l~ 
tual movement that has grown in the last ten years 
from a small culture of practitioners in mainland 
China to an international movement 
a movement 
that claims to cure the illnesses of its followers and 
help them attain supernormal powers. Banned as a 
cult in China and mistrusted and reviled by much 
of Yale's Chinese national population, Falun Gong's 
opponents claim that it brainwashes its devotees 
and incites them to suicide. But today, Dr. Deng 
and her fellow Yale scientists could not seem more 
peaceful. 
Founded two years ago by a group of faculty, 
graduate students, and post-doctoral researchers, the 
group meets on Cross Campus to practice what it 
calls "mind-body cultivation." "I try to do the prac-
tice every day," says Deng, a researcher specializing 
in dermatology at the Yale School of Medicine and 
the group's president. "It keeps me much calmer, 
much happier., 
Yanping Lu, a post-doctoral researcher in im-
---
33 



**Falun Gong at Yale**
**Author: Unattributed**
**Page number(s): 34-36**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
I
munobiology, agrees. 'ti used to get
very agitated during the course of
the day. When I practice cultivation,
I feel peaceful."


Also present are Tracey Zhu,
a New Haven physician who
completed her residency at the
Yale School of Medicine; Jianchao
Xu, a nephrologist and assistant
professor of internal medicine; Hao
Wang, a senior economics major in
Morse College; and several others.
Movements
from
"The
Falun
Standing Stance" and "Penetrating
the Two c ·ostnic Extremes,', to
"The Great Heavenly Circuit," and
"Strengthening Divine Powers" are
designed to unite their energies with
the cosmos.

alun Gong combines meditation
with a unique form of cosmol-
ogy rooted in traditional Chinese
belief systems. The practice was
introduced to China in 1992 by Li
Hongzhi, a trumpet player and for-
mer army officer, who outlined his
essential teaching in Zhuan Falun,
or, in English, Revolving the Law
Wheel. In this collection of nine lec-
tures and essays, Li claims he was
tutored by a long line of Buddhist
and Daoist masters in qigong
an
ancient Chinese form of mind-body
meditation designed to redirect the
34
flow of qi throughout the body. Li
also claims to have gained the abil-
ity to levitate and walk through
walls. Falun Gong,s ultimate goal
is the improvement of the mental,
physical, and spiritual health of its
practitioners . . Members of Falun
Gong, however, believe that Master
Li brought a significantly different
element to qigong practice. When
Li introduced the movement, he
claimed that he was not founding a
new religion but reviving an ancient
set of practices. The . movemenes
official website, falundafa.org, de-
scribes Falun Gong as "originating
in pre-historic China.,,

"The basic foundations of Fa-
.
lun Gong are in qigong," explains
Gareth Fischer, a post-doctoral re-
searcher in the East Asian Studies
Department and a visiting instruc-
tor in anthropology. "But as you
get more deeply involved this other
stuff starts getting put on top of it."
Originally, much of qigong
practice possessed a religious or cos-
mological element. It was only dur-
ing the Cultural Revolution of the .
1960s, when Mao Zedong actively
suppressed traditional Chinese re-
ligions, that the form of medita-
tion more strongly emphasized the
physical component.

"In traditional practices, like
Tai,chi," says Wang, "the practice
was passed down from teacher to
student, and they w:orked at open-
ing one meridian at a time. It might
take 15 or 20 years for a practitio-
ner to open all their meridians. In
Falun Gong, you begin by opening
all of your meridians with the first
"

"Many practitioners turn to
Falun Gong because of health rea-
sons," says Fischer. Fischer does
not _practice Falun Gong himself,
but over the summer of 2000, while
completing his Ph.D. at the Uni-
versity of Virginia, he studied its
practitioners in Hong Kong. Since
1999, it has been illegal to practice,
or even research, the movement in
. could not seem more peace ul.


--- Page 35 ---

mainland China.

"It is a very physical practice,"
he says. "No different from lifting
weights at the gym." Li intended for
the practice to be painful at first. It
involves a series of highly specified
poses held for a long period: Fischer,
who tried the practice with follow-
ers in Hong Kong, admits that they
can "make you really sick." This
process of sustained poses is called
qingli · shenti, or "cleaning of the
self." Li and his followers believe
that by enduring the pain of diffi-
cult meditation, they can eliminate
impure karma.

"Once they see the practice
works, they tend to get drawn into
the cosmology."

At its core, Falun Gong sees
qigong as a vehicle for attaining
Zhen-Shan-Ren, or ''Truthfulness,
Compassion
and
Forbearance."
These three principles, Falun Gong
maintains, underlie the workings of
the universe: It is because of man's
natural corruption that humanity
suffers the illnesses and hardships of
the physical world.

he doctors who practice at Yale
claim that Falun Gong offers
not only the path to health, but alsQ
the key to rediscovering one's true
form
what Li refers to as the yu-
ansheng. He says it will allow one
to see past the "special dimension"
that has been constructed around
human ignorance to one of ten
other dimensions, where the "law
wheel," or Falun, exists. "Li be-
lieves that in every person there is
a wheel," explains Fischer, "that has
been installed in the abdomen, but
that exists in another dimension."
This wheel is supposed to move in
tune with the Milky Way, the cos-
mos, and the various rhythms of the
universe, but stress inflicted upon
it by wordly life destroys this syn-
chronicity. This is where meditation
comes in; the tranquil exercises wit-
nessed on Cross Campus are an ef-
fort to realign one's individual wheel
with that of the cosmos.

November 2006
Although Li claims that Falun
Gong has ancient origins, its phi-
losophy of degeneration and puri-
fication m ay have more recent ·so-
ciological roots. Falun Gong comes
from urban mainland China, where
recent developments in Chinese
society
rapid
industrialization,
large-scale environmental degrada-
tion, and the removal of social sup-
port and w elfare institutions
have
contributed to a general feeling of
•
corruption.

In Fischer's eyes, "people left
out of rapid social change" are
attracted by
what Falun Gong
promises.

he practice has brought a fair
amount of controversy to Yale's
campus. Last April, as Chinese Pres-
ident Hu Jintao delivered a speech
to a packed audience at Sprague Me-
morial Hall, scores of Falun Gong
practitioners who had come from as
far as Australia m editated in protest
on the New H aven Green, holding
bright yellow banners proclaim-
ing "Falun D afa is Good." Across
the street, C hinese students and
Communist Party members, some
of whom had been bussed up from
New York, hoisted
~ed Chinese
flags in support of their country's
government. Alternating between
Chinese and English, the two groups
berated each other through dueling
megaphones.

The streets surrounding campus
were postered with rraphic photos.
Protesters demonstrated live re-
enactments of torture. Since 1999,_
the movement has been banned
in China and actively suppressed
by the government, which denies
that it has committed any human
rights violations in its handling of
Falun Gong. But many claim that
those who refuse to recant their
beliefs are tortured, sometimes to
death, by government authorities.
F alundafa.org alleges that over two
thousand practitioners have died in
custody. Some also claim that the
government harvests the organs of
Falun Gong disciples to sell on the
black market.

The day before Hu's speech,
the Yale Falu n Gong Club had
drawn up a petition with over
2,500 signatures requ esting that
President Levin raise the issue of the
Haven .com

--- Page 36 ---

alleged internment and torture of
China, Tang maintains, ''I don,t he-
Falun Gong practitioners with the
lieve what they say. I would rather
Chinese president. ccThe ~orture is
not believe that. They say that they
well-established/, says Lu. cci grew
can cure diseases, and they tell you
up in China. I know the social at-
not to take medicine. As a scientist,
mosphere. When the government
my scientific knowledge ·tells me
wants to destroy a group, the social
that's not right.''
atmosphere turns to try to defame .
Among non-practicing ·Chi-
thatgroup .. NobodyinChinaknows
nese like Tang, Falun Gong has
the truth about Falun Gong.''
grown more unpopular · since it
"Falun Go~g is a victim of re-
· was banned in 1999, due in part
lentless state-run media propagan-
to a successful propaganda . cam-
da,, says Wang, who has actively
paign by the Chinese state media.
protested the Chinese government's
Practitioners have responded with
policies for years. Wang claims he
an increasingly intense campaign
was detained for several hours by
of their o-wn counter-propaganda.
Chinese authorities when he and his
"They pamphlet . constantly, spam
mother tried to protest a state visit
email boxes ... Many ordinary pea-
by then-President Jiang Zerriin in
ple, I think, are turned off by their
Iceland. "The government got ner-
tactics," says Fischer.
vous when they saw that there was
a group other than the Communist
Party that people were willing to
join," Wang says, "so they set out
to destroy it.,

Though the . Yale club main-
tains that Falun Gong has no politi-
cal agenda, many · disagre.e. Among
these is Huaping Tang, a fifth-year
graduate student studying genetics
from Zhejian, China, who serves
as President of the Association of
Chinese Students and Scholars.
Tang finds the group dangerous.
"I don't lik~ their ideology I do
think they should be banned," he
says. Though he admits that there
is no evidence to disprove claims of
human rights abuses occurring in


ecause Falun Gong has no tem-
ple, clergy, or official member-
ship, the movement is based mainly
on local informal groups like this
one. It spreads largely through word
of mouth and communication over
the internet. ccWe contact each other
mainly by e-mail," Deng explains.
((There is no other network, no hi-
erarchy." Compared to similar clubs
around the world, whose member-
ship can reach into the hundreds
or thousands, the Yale Falun Gong
Club is relatively small. Deng esti-
mates that there are between seven
and ten committed practitioners in
the Yale community at any given
time,. as well as a shifting population
of other casual observers.

At Yale, as elsewhere, the group
is centered around regular medita-
tion and weekly "experience shar-
ing" sessions, in which practitio-
ners meet to read and study the
movement's central text and discuss
the ways in which Falun Gong has
changed their lives. For most of
the members, this change has been
largely health related.

·
Lu, the immunobiology re-
searcher, was introduced to the
movement by her parents in 2000.
Her mother, suffering from heart
disease and cerebral arteriosclerosis,
turned to Falun Gong. ccAt first we
all thought my mother was super-
stitious," Lu says. After a string of
unsuccessful research projects and a
difficult childbirth~ -Lu "followed her
mother's example.

Among the group's core mem-
hers, Wang, who emigrated from
China's Sichuan Province when he
was ten years old, is the only under-
graduate. "I was a very sick child,
even in China," he said. When he
moved to Boston, he was hospital-
ized for an ulcer. His father, a re-
searcher in cardiology at Harvard
who had been suffering from a neu-
rological disease known as progres-
sive spinal muscular atrophy, intro-
duced him to Falun Gong. ''Every
doctor in China told [my father] he
had five years to live, maximum," re-
ports Wang. "He wanted to try the
United States, but it was the same



**Title: Can the University speak its mother tongue?**
**Author: Aditi Ramakrishnan**
**Page number(s): 38-39**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
A SOUTH INDIAN WIND, redolent of cinnamon, swishes through coastal palm trees and ruffles the hair of twenty-three year old Elihu Yale as he emerges from the ship's cabin. He leans upon the gunwhale and drinks in the twisted figures of coconut trees rooted in ochre sand, the narrow build of catamarans bobbing up and down among blue waves. The ship is fifty feet from the shore. Catamarans pull up alongside the hull and the crew of the East India Company voyage is rowed through the azure water. Brown boys clutching limes wade out toward the Englishmen. Elihu accepts a lime and is hoisted onto a boy's sinewy shoulders and carried ashore, where he steps down to gingerly touch the rough, hot sands of Fort St. George, India. Here, he will begin as a "writer," a lowly clerk for the East India Company.

Elihu will work zealously for the next few years. He will travel, trade, and rise to become the governor of this English settlement. But for now, he gazes ahead. A polished cobblestone path leads to the stone walls of Fort St. George. Beyond the fort lie the thatched huts that comprise part of what the English call "Black Town," where the natives live. Known as Madras, this region will become the capital of Tamil Nadu, a future state in the south of India.


A conversation between two fishermen drifts past Elihu's ears. The language they speak is nasal, rounded, and rough. Some words sound coarse and short; others fill the mouth and float into stretched-out vowels. In a few days, Elihu will learn that this language is called Tamil, and that it is spoken throughout the vast lands that hug the borders of the fort. He will never fully understand this language and will certainly never dream that it will one day be spoken on the campus of a university that will bear his name. A university he will help to fund in part with the fortune that he will reap in Tamil Nadu.

2006: Across the seas at Yale University, 334 years later, students and professors sit around a polished wooden table in a resplendent dining hall and speak the language Elihu Yale heard when he first landed in India, now taught in New Haven. At the Tamil language table, some students speak fluently, while others lean forward and try to catch the racing words of the language that Elihu Yale heard and perhaps spoke in southern India.

1672: As a writer, Elihu records the activities and trade contracts between Fort St. George and various Indian merchants. The English trade gold bullion for diamonds, sapphires, spices, and cotton. South Indian cotton is precious to the English, who trade much of it for pepper in the Spice Islands. As the years pass, Elihu rises through the ranks. He travels throughout southern India to assess where trade can be extended and where more factories should be built. During these journeys, Indian servants carry him through dense jungle on a palanquin. From his elevated perch, he sees the curving tops of temples, hills covered with medicinal herbs, and glimmering paddies of rice. He meets weavers who specialize in weaving chintz, gingham, and embroidering golden flowers. With the aid of interpreters, he bickers and negotiates with wealthy natives. Perhaps he uses Tamil phrases, or even speaks in broken bits to the various merchants, chiefs, and kings he meets on his travels.

1684: Twelve years since Elihu first felt the sands of Fort St. George, he is now the settlement's acting governor. Future accounts of Governor Yale will describe one of his first orders: "He induced natives to agree to provide 200 pairs [of cotton stockings]. Yale tried to contract them to make cotton gloves, but he was unsuccessful because [the natives] were not accustomed to making them." Governor Yale enjoys trade, but loves taxes even more. He channels much of his energy into demanding that the Indians of Madras pay annual property taxes and rents. The town leaders have lived in Madras for forty years and have never paid such taxes. They refuse, but Elihu threatens: if they do not pay, they must leave their homes. His threats escalate. The Indians riot. Elihu issues an ultimatum: If the chiefs do not "beg pardon for their crime of insurrection against the Government and promise obedience," he will destroy their houses and seize their property.


**Title: Elihu Yale's Legacy**
**Author: Aditi Ramakrishnan**
**Page number(s): 40-42**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
.... - .. 
-~ 
• 
• ·- -
• • 
Elihu Yale's snuff boxes. Ezra Stiles will go on to pay forty shillings for them. 
dience," he will raze their houses 
and banish thejr families from 
Madras. 

In the midst of unrest, famine 
plagues the people of Madras. As a 
result, trade and factory output de-
crease. Governor Yale tries to use 
·the East India Company money to 
provide food for the people 
after 
all, healthy workers make more 
cotton stockings but the Com-
pany directors do not approve the 
expenditure. Famine presses on, 
and the Indians, the English, and 
Governor Yale wait for the rains 
and the relief they bring. 

16 91 : Elihu is a prosperous and 
unpopular governor. Through pri-
vate trade and as a company em-
ployee, he has amassed a fortune of 
five-hundred-thousand small, gold 
pellets known as pagodas 
equiva-
lent to 27 million of today's dollars. 
Suspicions that he has used com-
pany money to conduct private 
diamond trade simmer within the 
council of Fort St. George. Elihu 
negotiates the purchase of a region 
south of Madras and names it Fort 
St. David. When he attempts to ap-
point his brother as the governor of 
this new settlement, the resentment 
of the council boils over. Members 
write a fiery document, "Charges 
Against Governor Yale," and send 
it to the directors of the East India 
Company. They vilify him for fa-
voring his brother, for not paying 
customs on his private trade, for 
keeping the finest of the _ factory-
produced cloth for himself, and for 
forcing the natives to fill his coffers 
with so much money that "they 
naturally could not pay their prop-
er taxes." This document brings 
about Elihu's downfall. 

A year later, Governor Yale is 
forced to pass the keys of Fort St. 
George to the newly appointed Gov-
ernor Higginson. Despite his demo-
tion, Elihu spends seven more years 
in Madras before returning to Eng-
land. During these years, the council 
seizes his estate and accuses him of 
poisoning three council members. 
But Elihu is acquitted of all charges 
by the English Parliament. He spends 
his last years in India investing in the 
private trade of diamonds, a practice 
he continues even after returning to 
London in 1699. His most prized 
piece is forty-five carats of a velvet-
blue color which recalls its orgins in 
the Goloconda diamond vein, deep 
within Tamil N adu . 

1713 : 
Elihu is persuaded to 
donate 32 books to a new college 
isolated in the Connecticut wilder-
ness. Collectors of the funds curtly 
recount, "Mr. Yale has done some-
thing, tho very little considering 
his Estate." In 1718, Elihu receives 
a persuasive letter promising that, 
contingent upon a generous dona-
tion, the College of New Haven will 
bear his name for eternity. Perhaps 
enticed by the idea of immortaliza-
tion, he sends hundreds of books, 
a few English goods and paintings, 
and two trunks of Madras textiles 
to New Haven. The textiles, woven 
by Tamil weavers, consist of calico, 
rriuslins, poplins, and silk crepe. All 
sell for considerable profit in New 
England, and thus constitute a suit-
able donation to the floundering 
college. More than half the books 
he donates resonate with religious 
themes; Yale hopes that education 
can convert the Puritans of the new 
college to Anglicanism. Over the fol-
lowing years, representatives of Yale 
College hound him to donate more. 
Elihu promises more books, more 
goods, and more paintings. But he 
forgets, and when he remembers, he 
sends less than he promised. 

On July 11, 1721, Elihu Yale 
passes away, and his will is read. 
Nothing is promised to his ccwick-
ed wife," but five hundred pounds 
are promised to the cc Connectic<?te 
College." As the will is neither dated 
nor signed, its validity is contested. 
Stepdaughters, sons-in-law, repre-
sentatives of Yale College, and a re-
ligious group all compete for slices 
of the fortune. After three-and-a-
half years, a Yale representative 
writes that, ccwe lost Our Cause in 
the Commons by the vile decree of 
the Dean of the Arches, who, I ver-
ily believe was corrupted." Though 
hope of receiving the last five hun-
dred pounds is dashed Yale Col-
lege keeps its name. Elihu's total 
donation to the college amounts to 
£1,162. Though only a meager por-
tion of his wealth, this donation 
links his name, and Tamil Nadu, to 
a college he has never seen . 

2004: 283 years later, I see the 
gothic spires that Elihu's Madras 
textiles helped to build. It is the 
sununer, and, like many high-school 


--- Page 41 ---

seniors, I visit the Yale campus and 
sit through a nervous interview on 
Hillhouse Avenue. Waiting in line at 
a f9od cart, my father proceeds to 
call his friend and talk rather loud-
ly about the grandeur and beauty 
of Yale. "I can see why any parent 
would want their child to go here!,, 
A tall, bearded man ahead of us 
looks back and smiles. I apologize 
for my· embarrassing father, and a 
conversation springs up. The man 
asks my father where he is from. 
When he says he is originally from 
Chennai formerly known as Ma-
dras in India, the man's blue eyes 
brighten and he exclaims, "Tamilia-
naa ?" He begins to speak rapidly in 
Tamil about how he lived and stud-
ied in Tamil Nadu for five years. He 
even rocks and nods his head like a 
native Tamilian. This is my intro-
duction to Anthropology Professor 
Bernard Bate. 

Neither my father nor I have 
ever met a non-Indian fluent in 
Tamil, and we are silent while our 
surprise subsides. I can't even .keep 
up with Bate's rapid speech. During 
the next ten minutes, Professor Bate 
excitedly informs me that Tamil will 
be taught at Yale for the first time in 
the fall. He strides towards his car 
and beckons to us, "Vaango, vaan-
go," asking us to join him in his of-
fice. We politely decline. 


2 0 0 5 : A year and a h~lf later, 
Professor Bate confides to me that 
he thought he had scared my father 
and me away that summer day. We 
were certainly in awe of him. He 
had made me excited that Tamil, a 
language I could understand but 
still wished to gain literacy and flu-
ency in, was to be taught at Yale. 
When it came time for me to choose 
a college in April, Tamil was a dis-
tinguishing factor. 

My timing is opportune. Just 
two years before I arrived on cam-
pus, proposals to offer a Tamil 
course were being written, presented, 
and debated. The South Asian Stud-
ies Program was being built around 
the arrival of Arjun Appadurai, an 
eminent professor of contemporary 
South Asia and social thought, and 
Carol Breckenridge, a professor of 
South Asian history. "In the winter 
of 2002, there was all this excite-
ment about South Asia," says Bate, 
looking back. "It was then that I 
thought we should bring Tamil here. 
Early the next year we were writing 
proposals." He, Appadurai, Breck-
enridge, and Economics Professor 
T.N. Srinivasan presented proposals 
to the Language Study Committee. 

Tamil is one of two classical, lit-
erary Indian languages. It is the thir-
teenth most spoken language in the 
world, surpassing I tali an and Kore-
an. Along with Man_darin and Ara-
bic, Tamil has the oldest continuous 
literary tradition of any language: a 
history of two millennia. It is main-
ly spoken in the south Indian state 
of Tamil N adu, and is a native lan-
guage in Sri Lanka, Singapore, and 
Malaysia. In addition, Mauritian, 
Fijian, South African, and American 
diasporas have transplanted Tamil 
to those countries. This is the lan-
guage yale did not offer. 

Thanks to faculty mobiliza-
tion and a petition, students pe-
rusing the 2004-2005 Yale College 
Programs of Study could find a 
course under the South Asian Stud-
ies section entitled TAML 115: 
INTRODUCTORY TAMIL. 

That first year, eight students 
signed up. The next year, along with 
a sophomore from Sri Lanka and 
a graduate student, I enrolled as a 
freshman in the introductory level. 
Both the graduate student and I 
could understand Tamil quite well, 
but our speech was fragmented and 
we were illiterate. Our Sri Lankan 
peer had learned to read and write 
Tamil growing up, but his compre-
hension and speech skills were at a 
lower level than ours. The instruc-
tor, Professor Elayaperumal Anna-
tnalai, skillfully tailored the class to 
our individual needs. One day, he 
brought us rasam, a spicy tomato 
and lentil soup, and, as we tasted 


--- Page 42 ---

the dish, we · discussed its cooking 
process and learned new, culinary 
words. We watched a Tamil movie 
about the politics, corruption, and 
bureaucracy of building a house in · 
India. We learned about issues of 
gender, caste, and race in Tamil so-
ciety. At the end of the year, we rel-
ished steaming south Indian rices, 
soups, and vegetable curries at 
Annamalai,s house. We grew very 
close as a class; the small number 
gave us room to learn the subtleties 
of the language. 

This fall, the class remains small; 
three students are in Intermediate 
Tamil and three are in the introduc-
tory level. The administration is not 
satisfied with this enrollment. "The 
question is: will it be more than a 
single digit number?" says George 
Joseph, assistant secretary of the 
Yale Office of International Affairs. 
"Is there a possibility of it ever going 
back up?" 

"There is a sense of unease 
about having three [students per 
level]," Bate says, "but U. Chicago 
has those numbers. Harvard and 
Columbia have those numbers." 

Aside from small class size, an-
other issue dogs the administration: 
the lack of academic outlets for stu-
dents who study TamiL "How does 
Professor Elayaperumal Annamalai teaches TAM L 115. 
Tamil fit into University scholarship 
right now? I think there is an ex-
pectation that if you,re learning a 
language, you will use it elsewhere 
in the curriculum," Joseph says. Yet 
Hindi, which boasts a far greater 
enrollment than Tamil, has only one 
such class: ''Hindi in the Diaspora." 
Tamil itself appears in Bates anthro-
pology classes such as ''Gender and 
Media in India" and in Annamalai's 
anthropology 
class, 
''Language, 
Politics, and Society in India." 

The issue truly clouding Tamii>s 
future at Yale is funding. The South 
Asian Studies Council is the new-
est of all the academic councils, and 
is therefore not as well-endowed. 
''You have to look anywhere, ev-
erywhere for money,,, Joseph says . 
''Funding is needed for paying teach-
ers and for books and publications . 
We would like to build our library 
collections and we would like our 
students to study in Chennai." 

Yale has discovered a particular 
fund within the Tamil Nadu govern-
ment that may be used to promote 
the study of Tamil abroad. This past 
September, Joseph traveled to Tamil 
N adu and met with its Chief Minis-
ter to discuss applying this fund to-
wards Tamil studies at Yale. Despite 
its vast endowment, Yale is asking a 
developing country for financial as-
sistance. But last summer, an indi-
vidual donor made a gift to the Uni-
versity tagged specifically for Tamil 
studies. This gift might ensure that 
Tamil will be offered next year, but 
what about the year after that? 

1699: A stout, 'fifty-year-old Eli-
hu Yale leans upon the rim of a ship 
bound for England. He gazes for 
the last time at the towers of Fort 
St. George, the catamarans beached 
on the scalding sand, and the curv-
ing coastline of Madras. During the 
six-month voyage back to England, 
he will recall his travels, his rise and 
fall, his diamonds. Elihu breathes 
his last breath of Madras air: a brew 
of salt, fish, and spice. He hears two 
fishermen speaking to each other in 
Tamil, arguing heatedly. Perhaps he 
catches a word or two; perhaps he 
gleans a sliver of their argument. He 
turns and descends into the ship,s 
belly to join the chintz, gingham, 
and diamonds, leaving this language 
behind forever. 

Aditi Ramakrishnan is a sophomore 
in Timothy Dwight College. 



**Title: My day with the jury pool.**
**Author: Fanny Dach**
**Page number(s): 43-45**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
•
even
My day with the jury pool.
by fanny Dach
n the morning after Elec-
tion Day, I feel proud of
my country and proud
of its political processes. With the
House ours and the Senate on its
way, few of my fellow Democrats
feel they have cause to be unhappy.
One of them is John DeStefano,
who remains New Haven Mayor
rather than Connecticut Gover-
nor-Elect. I pass him in front of
City Hall as I wend through foggy
s~eets to join sixty or seventy of
my fellow citizens trickling through
a queue at the door of 235 Church
Street. No one in line, Democrat or
Republican, is happy. Shuffling one
by one past a magnetometer, our
limbs are frisked, our hats removed,
our camera phones confiscated, and
our jackets branded with stickers.
(Since 9/11, anyone caught in this
building without a small, white-
and-red sticker has been detained.)
Our harmlessness established, we
are corralled into an elevator and
taken up to a ninth-floor audito-
rium, where gray plastic seats face
a wood-paneled podium. In a large,
square room with white walls and
gray carpet, we wait. And wait. And
wait. Until. ..
''Good morning!"

The voice, ringing and conviv-
ial, tries to welcome the motley as-
sortment of New Haven Tesidents
to the County Courthouse, but
elicits no more than the grumbling,
half-hearted reply heard so often
by principals addressing middle
school assemblies. Chipper, pas-
November 2006
Frien s te
me
raczsm zs t e
est
exzt strate y.
sionate, and perplexed by our lack-
luster response, the voice belongs to
the · Honorable Jonathan Silbert, a
Connecticut Superior Court judge.
He goes on to offer some cajol-
ing words of encouragement: "You
should really be more enthusiastic
than that
this is jury duty!"
ew
would-be
jurors
share
Silbert's rosy perspective. In-
formed of n1y impending summons,
my friends spent the week before
November 8th telling me that rac-
ism is my best exit strategy. "Say
you were mugged by a black man on
Dixwell." "Say your family is from
Texas." "Say an episode of The Cos-
by Show traumatized you as a child
and the wounds have yet to heal."
Though my distress at Bill Cosby's
infamous threat against Theo (''I
brought you into this world, and I
can take you out") has long since
faded, the first two statements are
accurate enough. But the next logi-
cal steps
therefore, I am preju-
diced against African-Americans;
therefore; I am unfit to serve as an
impartial member of a jury simply
aren't true. How, then, can I avoid
what the sutnnlons I received in the
mail describes as "an obligation and
an honor"?
My mother the Texan
sug-
gests announcing that I trust the
police. "They always ask you if you
would believe the testimony of a
cop over that of an alleged critninal .
And I always say 'yes/ and they al-
ways push me, saying 'Really? Why


--- Page 44 ---

would you?' But I really believe
that. Our. house has been broken
into twice, and the police caught
the people· both times. Our car was ·
stolen, and, found by the police be-
fore we knew it 'Yas missing. One of
your au pairs dated that nice police-
F. h "
man, 1s er.
She's right; I trust the D.C. of-
ficers. With· their blue uniforms
and smiling faces, they protected
my childhood home from burglars
and watched out for me as I crossed
the streets to school. But I am reg-
istered to vote here in Connecticut;
so I have been summoned for jury
duty in New Haven, and I cannot
place my faith in a thin blue line
that seems crooked, inadequate, and
hateful of Yale.

I finally ignore all advice, enter-
ing the courthouse with one mea-
sly card up my sleeve: My aunt is
president of the Texas State Bar.
My apartment is furnished with
large, brass scales of justice from
her swearing-in, and I've heard that
lawyers don't like their jurors to
come from legal families.
s it tunis out, I am holding an
.. a.~.-~;;. my Yale ID. Though my
College Dean ignored two frantic
e-mails pleading for information
about some sort of scholastic ex-
emption, and though no one I spoke
with could remember hearing of an-
other summoned student, the ninth-
floor desk attendant is brisk and
knowledgable. She takes one look at
me, asks if I atn a full-time student,
and then says, "I'm going to send
you home, okay?" Just like that,
I am free to go, to finish my read-
ing while the men and women who
would other wise be at work must
spend hours listlessly waiting to be
chosen for a jury panel.
I'm off the hook. But as I turn
curiosity and an adult-sized helping
of guilt. Besides, it's eight a.m. and I
have nothing better to do until my
one o'clock class. So why not stay?
Fearing that the kindly atten-
dant will discover me and shoo me
away, I claim a chair in the . next-
to-last row. When a television is
wheeled to the front of the room,
I regret sitting so far back. Soaring
music and a flowing graphic of- the
U.S. Constitution replace the mus-
cled body builders of an infomercial
as a video starts to play. A voiceover
narrates the revolutionary struggles
before continuing with "the Pream-
ble and Sixth Amendment that, I'm
told, my forefathers died to secure:
"The accused shall enjoy the right
to a speedy and public trial, by an
impartial jury of the state and dis-
trict wherein the crime shall have
been committed, which district shall
have been previously ascertained
by law ... " My forefathers spent the
American Revolution as Polish Jews
and Scottish landowners, not rebel-
lious colonists, but the next segtnent
of the video is more affecting. Build-
ings that served as fixtures of my
childhood flash across the screen-
the Capitol, the White House, the
Supreme Court and we are told
that, without our ''most direct and
vital" participation, these buildings
will crumble and fall. As a proud
Washingtonian, and as a voter who
recently exercised his civic rights, I
am struck by this prophecy. I feel
like a heel.
n case the video failed to stir us,
Jonathan Silbert is here to moti-
vate the jury pool in person. After
his rousing "good morning," he
launches right into it. "Experience
tells me that one or two
maybe
even three of you wish you were
somewhere else." He smiles jovially
as most in the audience nod their
heads. There by choice, but hoping
not to stand out, I grin weakly be-
fore pursing my lips and nodding.
Silbert describes voire dire, "an
old French phrase for 'to speak the
truth."' During the next part of the
process
the examination of pro-
spective jurors, under oath, by the
competing litigators we'll
need
to do just that. This grilling session
is where the wheat and chaff are
separated into dignified jurors and
shamed freemen, where so many
had urged me to paint a convincing
portrayal of racism or blind faith in
authority. A quick poll reveals that,
of the sixty or seventy members of
Wednesday's jury pool, half had
been summoned in the past and only
four of those had been accepted onto
jury panels. Silbert lays what he says
we ''may find a hard curse" on the
rest of us that we may be one of
the select few who "look back with
pride upon that as one of the most
important civic duties they have
ever performed or will ever perform
in their lives."
"Virtually without exception,"
he continues, "everyone who's had
the opportunity to actually sit on a
jury reports that it's been one of the
most valuable and rewarding things
they've done." My ears perk up-
whether at the promised rewards
or the selective application process
Yale students are bred to adore, it's
hard to say. When many are called
and few are chosen, the prospect of
being one of the elect is irresistible.
I consider asking to have my name
put back in the pool. Days :filled
with Dean's Excuses and spiritu-al
fulfillment are hard to pass up.
s I wind up, Silbert winds
down, signing off with a joke
about how he hopes the security
line at the door was shorter than the
one at the polls. (It wasn't. Not by a
long shot.) Unamused, the potential
jurors settle in for a long, quiet wait.
The experienced have brought lap-
tops and bagged lunches; the naive
must make do with a pile of B-list
magazines and a hurruning vending
· machine. Members of the jury pool
are at once friends, thrown together
by circumstance, and eneniies, hop-
ing the others will get picked. The
television is tuned to the Food Net-
work, which tortures those of us
not well-stocked for the day's haul,
then (per my request and to the an-
noyance of others) switches over to
CNN's constant, unwavering cov-
erage of the Virginia senate race.
Exploring away from the televi-
sion, I find a group of potential ju-
rors debating the merits of their re-
spective chicken coops. Elsewhere,
a small . Shih Tzu with a pink bow
between her ears is carried mysteri-
ously back and forth by court em-
ployees. A pet? Part of a K-9 unit?
Evidence?
To much of the jury pool, I am
more out of place than the dog. For
them, I, a Yale student, am a circus
animal. They laugh at my vocabu-
lary and stand by the windows,
pointing at various residential col-
leges. "Which one is that?" These
are not the tricks I came here to
perform, an~ it doesn't ~ake long
for the American flag waving in
my mind's eye to sag pathetically.
My dull, three-hour stay has given
me plenty of time to consider the
havoc such an obligation would
wreak on my class schedule and
vacation plans. I head dejectedly
for the door, trying to assuage my
second thoughts. I tell myself that
I helped the justice system merely
by showing up. I have experienced
town and gown for four hours, just
by placing a white circle on my
breast pocket. I anticipate placing
the sticker proudly on my wall. It.
labeled me: ''JUROR."
Yet, as I exit, the guards force
me to throw the sticker away. For
consolation, I ruminate on one of
Silbert's. remarks. "Not to worry,"
he had reassured the pool. "We
know who you are, we know where
you live, and, if we don't :find a case
for you today, we'll track you down
in a year or two and try again." In
my head, I start counting down
from 365.
] onny Dach, a junior in] onathan
Edwards College, is a Managing
Editor ofThe New Journal.

**Title: A Post-Grad's Pursuit of Ivy League Campus Tours**
**Author: Lauren Harrison**
**Page number(s): 46-47**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
how up to a college tour any
college tour and you're guar-
anteed to encounter numerous
'
species: breathless mothers arriving
early to make a good impression;
bored siblings rendered deaf by iP-
ods; .nostalgic alums; and locals who
drift along to kill·time.

But one demographic you'll be
hard-pressed to find is recent uni-
versity grads. So why, on one recent
Yale tour, was a pair of young South-
ern gentlemen, fresh out of Baylor
and the University of Georgia, trail-
ing a group of Japanese tourists and
high school seniors?

Diplomas in hand, Brent Hill,
25, and Cal Knight, 23, had but two
dreams. One: to move to New York
City capital of what was, for them,
the uncharted and enticing North-
east territory and strike it big; a
pretty standard goal for young pro-
fessionals. Item number two? To go
on a campus tour of every single Ivy
League university. It's part of a list of
things they'd like to do in the North-
east, along with skiing in Vermont,
fishing off Long Island, and camping
in the Catskills. They commemorate
their trek by purchasing t-shirts at
each school. Together, they cultivate
their love, no, make that their pas-
sion for Ivy League campus tours.

As of November, the deter-
mined duo has visited the University
of Pennsylvania, Princeton, Har-
vard, and Yale. Cal is eager to visit
Dartmouth. Brent looks forward to
Brown. Neither really wants ·to see
Cornell, but they both feel they must
for the sake of the mission. Mter a
year of tours, they have mastered the
art of the campus visit. "Get there
early so you can see the town," Cal
suggests. Brent spends days scouring
each college's website for maps and
tour schedules, crafting tightly-regi-
mented itineraries.

But once you have a diploma in
hand, what could possibly be the ap-
peal of taking campus tours?
46

"Well basically, we go to college
campuses to try to date tour guides,"
Brent explains. "No, no, I'm just
joking. It's a joke, I promise." Cal
laughs awkwardly. "He's kidding."

So, if not for the Ivy League
broads whom Cal arid Brent de-
scribe as "extremely book smart but
not necessarily socially smart or at-
tractive"

then for what?

Shiela Pastor, Director of Yale's
Visitor Center, is certain that the
boys have a hidden agenda. When
she hears about their epic journey,
she shakes her head. "Well now, that
is unusual, yes. I've never heard any-
one say they were doing this before.
Maybe they're writing a book? I just
don't know why you'd ever do that
once you graduate from college."

Her colleague nods emphatically in
agreement.

Cal insists their reasons are
harmless: "I was going to be an ar-
chitecture major in college. These
schools are great places to see archi-
tecture, like how that Yale guy bur-
ied the stones in the ground to make
them look old and poured acid down
Harkness tower."

Brent's motives or at least those
he will fess up to
are equally tame.

"Being from Kansas, you always
hear about the Ivy League. Now that
I'm in New York City, Ivy League
schools are one of the things I want
.
,
to expenence.

The pair's Southern ·hospitality,
however, makes them easy targets for
Yankee swindlers. At Harvard, t_hey
•
say, "fake" tour guides hustled them
outside of the train station, trying to
persuade them to. take their tour in-
stead of the official version.

"Honestly, those fake tour guides
looked kind of shady. We don't know
if they were actually students
"

Cal interrupts: ''Not as shady ·
as the people outside of the New
Haven train station!" Evidently, the
Elm City didn't treat the visitors
very well.

With four schools down and
four to go, the boys have reached
some preliminary conclusions:
• Oddest tour guide? Harvard's. Ac-
cording to Brent, she was "your clas-
sic Ivy League girl." Cal adds, "You
could tell that she probably has so-
cial anxiety disorder."
•Greatest mystery? Whether or not
to tip their tour guide.
• School of choice? "Princeton for
undergrad and then Harvard for grad
school," Cal says.

"You know, I don't know if
I'd necessarily want to go to an Ivy
League university," Brent tieclares at
one point. "It's not necessarily the
ultimate college experience."

But twenty minutes later, after
excitedly describing their journey,
Brent has changed his tune. "I think
I probably would go ~o whichever
Ivy League school would let me in."




--- Page 48 ---

113 0 Chapel Street
New Haven, CT
Clare Gordiski
~·
I
'•
,_,
"-;'
."'(,
.•
·, ,"I·L
·~·
·.
'•'fll
,.',;
·
' .
' . ..
Phone Number:
(203) 777-8900
' ,.,
-.
...
· · '~..
u·r story ts a. a· .out
t e un y a y w o oves
." twee an cotton) ve vet
-
. . .
.:~. an . woo ,. stmp tctty an
em el is m.ent ... , ·
as
. . , an
~ to
''·~
e mutua y exc usive,
so s e comes to
......... are ones to
n
t ose
.:.·.
~
~- . " per ect pteces to comp ete
Monday, Tuesday, \\ednesday
10 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Thursday
10 a.m. to 8 p.tn.
Friday
10 a.m. to 6 p.n1.
Saturday
10 a.m. to 6:30 p.m.
Sunday
12 p.m. to 5 p.nt.
C andac Jottes

