Publication date: October 24, 1981
Volume: 14
Issue number: Two

**MASTHEAD:**
- Publisher: Ed Bennett
- Editor-in-Chief: Andy Court
- Designer: Geoffry Fried
- Associate Publisher: Jeff Foster
- Production Manager: Jane Hinson
- Photo Editor: Rollin Riggs
- Staff: Paul Hofheinz, Walter Jacob, Geoff Pope


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- A belated Introduction
- Comment: Taking Back The Night; The Mayoral Election
- Testing Teachers: A New System Ahead?
- On Patrol With Rick Randall
- In Search of A White Collar Union
- Arts: The Paper Mache Video Institute
- Research: An Approach Against Leukemia
- Books: Serge Lang's File


**Title: A belated Introduction**
**Author: [Not specified]**
**Page number(s): 3**

In this issue:
A belated Introduction
October 24, 1881
The New Journal
4 
Comment: Taking Back The Night; The Mayoral Election 
8 
Testing Teachers: A New System Ahead? 
12 
On Patrol With Rick Randall 
15 In Search of A White Collar Union 
18 Arts: The Paper Mache Video Institute 
21 
Research: An Approach Against Leukemia 
23 Books: Serge Lang's File 

One criticism we recieved about our 
first issue was that we offered no ex-
planation of who·we were and what we 
were doing. We hoped to show rather 
than tell, but perhaps we made the 
magazine seem too impersonal in the 
process. The Nan Journal was founded 
by Daniel Yergin and Jerry Bruck in 
1967. During those turbulent times, 
the magazine covered the riots in New 
Haven, the aborted attempt to move 
Vassar to Yale, and the arrival of Jim 
Morrison and the Doors in New 
Haven. Some of their articles were so 
well-conceived and well-written that 
they're still interesting to read today. 


Twelve years after its inception, The 
Nan Journal folded- a victim of bad 
luck and indifference. Now that we're 
back, here are some things you should 
know about our format. 

We cover almost exclusively Yale 
and New Haven stories. We don't do 
this because our view of the world is 
myopic, but because we want to do 
what we can do best. With our limited 
resources, and your limited time, we 
think it wise to provide you with in-
formation you probably can't get in 
Time or Nansweelc. 

We espouse no political ideology. In 
fact were looking for intelligent 
opinion from many different 
perspectives. We hope to print some 
articles that will challenge your 
convictions rather than merely affirm 
them. 

Finally, we need your help. Send us 
your article ideas, criticisms, and 
letters to the editor. It would be a 
simple but heartening afftrmation that 
the process of communication has 
indeed gone full circle. 

Send all correspondmce lo The New 
Journal, P. 0 . Box 1704, Nan Htwm, 
CT 06507.


**Title: Taking back the night: two views**
**Author: Martha Neil**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
After hearing Gloria Steinem speak earlier in the week, it somehow seemed appropriate that I should plan to attend the Take Back the Night rally that Saturday, even though I had never been in anything remotely resembling a protest march before·. 

Seven of us from Branford College had dinner together, and then, at about 7:30, walked down to the New Haven Green. We stood at ftrst, and later sat in a semicircle on the grass, listening to a series of speeches which- while well worth hearing-lasted much longer than we'd been prepared for. 

Standing in the middle of a mass of women, we couldn't see beyond the few irregular rows immediately ahead of us, and those in the front ranks had moved offbefore we were aware that the march had started. Like the left-behind half of a stretched-out Slinky, we hurried to catch up. Two feet to the side, a man stood shouldering an unmarked Portapak, its funnel-shaped eye staring at us inscrutably. A pair of men, leaning against the more distant iron railing separating sidewalk and grass, shouted comments that were intended, I realized with surprise, to be encouraging. 

Moving diagonally along the path and out of the Green, we turned left, and, still behind, crossed Church Street at a run, catching up with the others in-the middle of Chapel. All the stores dark, the sidewalks deserted, we trod unseen upon the lane markings. 

The people on the sidewalks stopped and stared as we proceeded onward and rounded the corner to Crown Street, walking to the rhythm of our words: "Women unite! Take back the night! Women unite! Take back the night! Women unite! ... " A hard-faced cop stood by the parked patrol car at the intersection of Crown and Church Streets, and the halted drivers, one to a lane, dourly waited for the human train to pass. 

On the Macy's block the chanting changed: "Stop rape; fight back! Stop rape; fight back! Stop rape; fight back!" The Crown Theatre, however, was just ahead, its sign already visible, and I wondered, eager to hear, what would be said there. The words, when they came, were disappointingly weak: "Down with the Crown! Down with the Crown!" 

Those in front walked on, and, following, I was almost past the Crown's doorway when we again stopped. A new slogan, similarly unsatisfying, began: "Porno movies make ... big money! It's not smart! It's not funny!" A woman darted out from the crowd, attached a bumpersticker to the Crown's display window-hands flat against the glass- and ran back into the ranks as an orange-haired man, features contorted, ran out through the doorway and ripped it down. 

The marchers hissed as they watched him crumple it, clench it, and hurl it at the crowd, while two couples, newly arrived, stood bewildered on the sidewalk. Another woman retrieved it from the gutter: picked it up, wound up, and pitched it in his wake. He reappeared, apoplectic, and kicked it back. 

Moving on, past Crown and York, we found the streets suddenly populated. A group, looking from their Towers balcony: ten people lined up, applauding, giving the fist. "Come join us!" a woman in front of me yelled. 

Another right turn, and all along Howe faces watching: staring unabashed, seated at the windows of the Elm City Diner; standing inside and outside of Mamoun's. Mostly men, and for once it was safe to stare straight at them, and see their expressions. 

As we turned the fmal comer onto • Elm Street, going for Broadway, we feU silent between slogans. Teetering at the curb in front of Rudy's, a group of men-Yalies, by their attire-fLiled the gap with shouted and gestured obscenities. "Take a walk, pricks!" a woman bellowed from behind me, bullhorn-loudly. 

Alas, they did, staying with us, on the sidewalk, to the comer of Broadway and York. "Shitheads!" shouted a friend who I had never yet heard use such a word in such a way. 

Isolated couples scurried for cover on either side of the following block. A Saybrook College window was opened wide to emit the pounding sound of a • stereo just then turned up to maximum volume, and a woman looked down through the glassless rectangle, smiling. 

The voices of those in the street increased to a level slightly surpassing the stereo's din: ". . . THE PATRIARCHY'S GOT TO GO!" 

As we crossed High Street we began a new chant: "All rapists are male! Some of them even go to Yale!" 

Caught up in the flow of the crowd, the seven of us continued on back to the Green, where six of us waited together for one wandering member to emerge. Most of the women now stood side by side, easily circling the perimeter of the smaller block; and many of them that ran to meet in the circle's center. Our missing friend soon appeared; and we headed home. 


**Title: From the sidelines**
**Author: Nathan Dudley**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

I couldn't help but feel excited as I watched the women's march leave the New Haven Green on September 26. It was about 10:15 on a Saturday night and the 1, 200 women marching through the streets of the city were a very impressive group, both in their fervor and their numbers. 

The "Take Back the Night" rally and march was my first major women's event. I viewed it as a chance for women to show their togetherness in a struggle that affects all of us: the right to walk the streets without fear. It was a symbolic effort, surely; an hour later a woman would still have to call a friend to go out on the street. But symbolic actions take on meaning when they unite people. 

I had no problem with the fact that men weren't allowed to march. The whole purpose of the event was to promote women's solidarity. In fact, two women who had come with me out of curiosity to see the marchers joined the demonstration on its way back to the Green. Later they told me what a tremendous experience it had been, just marching with other women. 

After watching the march, I went to a party in Pierson College where I heard two Yale men bragging to each other about yelling at "those women in the street." 

"Yeah," said one, "we were yelling 'Blow me you dyches' and they didn't know what to do." 

When I asked him why he had yelled at the women he said, "I hate militant women." 

I wanted to ask him, "What do you want, a passive dog?" but I didn't say it. This young man obviously didn't have the beginnings of any kind of consciousness about the march or for that matter anything to do with women. 

Before walking away from me he said, "All the rapists just hid anyway until the march was over, so what?" 

So What? 

I have learned from the experience that some men feel so threatened by marches for women's rights that they form macho groups, mobs if you will, and scream sexual insults at the women. Would such men behave the same way if they were alone? And, more important, why do these men feel so threatened by women marching together in the streets? 

I talked with some friends after the march who were both shocked and depressed by the viciousness of some Yale men's responses as the women marched down Elm Street. They said that as they passed through the campus they received more vocal attacks from men than anywhere else along the route. Some men followed the marchers shouting obscenities. One of my friends who marched said that when she looked one of them in the eye, he looked away, as if he couldn't confront her individually but only with his group. Another woman told me, "It was the first time I really had confirmed what I already knew, that the white· male power structure is really that vicious. These are our future leaders in their embryonic stages who are yelling 'Blow me you dyches.'" 

As a man, or better, a person, I feel I should have respect enough for other people to listen and try to learn. What's it like to have a constant fear in the street or to be verbally harrassed every single day? These are things I have no understanding of because I am a man. 

To gain an understanding one must listen and acknowledge that male violence against women is a major problem in society; until it ceases we will never have a just and equal place to live. One must be sensitive to what different people see as the causes of that violence and especially what women feel are the ways to combat it. 

The Yale men yelling insults in the streets are to a large extent what the women's march was directed against. In essence they proved the march's value and its necessity not only in New Haven, but especially here at Yale. 

Learning to respect other people is for me a basic part of education. Still, I have no respect for those men who continue to batter women both verbally and physically. 


Interested in---
Publishing 
Writing 
Photography 
Design? 
Come to 
The New Journal 
Meeting 
Monday 
October 26 
8 PM 
Berkeley Common 
Room ·---------· 
-----------------


The New Journal thanks: 
Sue Alcock 
Bob Danes 
Btclcy Dudley 
PtUr Eliasberg 
Ttd Gale 
Ellm Hamilton 
Jim Lowt 
Anya Martin 
Allysa McDanid 
Dan McLaughlin 
Jaji Packard 
Alex Savich 
Dthra Spark 
David S~bntnt 


**Title: The election that won't be**

Don't let the busses to the polls fool you. Or the name of the political unknown on the Republican ballot for mayor. The polls will open all day November 3, but there's no real election for mayor in New Haven this year. Biagio "Ben" DiLieto-and what critics call the reconstituted political machine-will run the city for at least two more years. 

In last month's Democratic primary, where New Haven traditionally selects its mayor, DiLieto breezed by State Senator Tony Ciarlone, a lackluster campaigner who probably couldn't have made a scandal out of a teapot dome. Except for a few of Ciarlone's most ardent campaigners, no one ever seriously questioned DiLieto's re-election chances. 

DiLieto's chances in the general election are even better. His Republican opponent, Elaine Noe, has few people to count on. The city Republicans are in disarray. They have about 5,000 registered voters in a city of over 120,000. They have just one alderman on the city's 27-member board. The Republicans couldn't fmd a mayoral candidate until a week after their nominating convention this summer; for a while, they even considered backing Ciarlone on a double ticket. 

You'd think DiLieto would have had more trouble this year. At well-attended public meetings throughout the city, residents have yelled at the mayor over many of his administration's decisions. Even though Ciarlone failed to rally opposinon to DiLieto, the issues his now-defunct campaign raised still need to be heard. 

Ciarlone noted, for instance, that the DiLieto administration recently instituted a new sewer charge. In 1980, it reduced trash pick-ups to once a week; soon after, rats began crawling out from railroad cuts in the Hill area. The administration has moved to close city



**New Haven's Mayoral Race: A Tale of Two Candidates**
**Author: Paul Bass**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
.. 
public schools and assign principals to 
cover two schools at once. DiLieto re-
jected citizens' calls to support a bill to 
make Yale re-imburse the city for tax 
exemptions on services. Meanwhile, he 
laid ofT city workers, reducing the 
municipal workforce to below 2,000 
employees for the fJISt time in recent 
history while giving his top aides raises. 
And a series of housing authority scan-
dals erupted this summer that led 
DiLieto to seek the resignation of its 
board of commissioners. 

Ciarlone also hoped to capitalize on 
information he received from people 
• who lost jobs under DiLieto, or who lost 
power struggles with his administra-
tion. These people brought Ciarlone 
complaints about how Ben DiLieto 
allegedly sought to re-build the political 
machine that Frank Logue knocked out 
of City Hall for four years. They 
charged that because President 
Reagan's budget cuts have left cities less 
money to create jobs for political allies 
the way past New Haven mayors have, 
DiLieto has had to resort to illegal, or at 
least underhanded, means. 

Both Ciarlone and city labor leaders 
charged DiLieto consistently bypassed 
civil service rules on testing and seniori-
ty in advancing employees through the 
city bureaucracy. Indeed, employees 
with up to 20 years' experience received 
lay-ofT notices this summer, but not 
others with far less time on the job and 
ties to DiLieto and his last campaign. 

A related issue Ciarlone and his sup-
porters raised cent~red on the voucher 
system. Since DiLieto couldn't create 
jobs out of the payroll, they maintained, 
he put allies on the voucher system on a 
regular basis, even though n officially 
functions as a budget for temporary 
~ work. Alderman John Fabrizio, who 
ran on Ciarlone's ticket in the 14th 
ward, publicized the names on the 
voucher list; it included DiLieto's cam-
paign treasurer in 1979, relatives of his 
executive assistant and personnel direc-
tor, and many others with similar con-
nections. 

Rather than examining these issues, 
voters more often wondered about 
Ciarlone: What does he stand for? Who 
is he? 

To political insiders, Ciarlone's ob-
jections to DiLieto's alleged misconduct 
sounded hollow because of the make-up 
of Ciarlone's own organization. A key 
backer of his was Arthur Barbieri, 
former Democratic town chairman. 
Barbieri used to run the machine and 
he helped to elect D iLieto in 1979. 
Once in office, DiLieto abandoned Bar-
bieri. 

The make-up of the group that 
worked for Ciarlone raised another 
question: what was his alternative to 
DiLieto's methods of running the city? 
Aligned with Barbieri in Ciarlone's 
camp was Frank Logue- the man who 
knocked Barbieri out of power in 1975. 
Logue's statements 
in 
support of 
Ciarlone 
reflected 
a 
distaste 
for 
DiLieto; like others, he didn't have 
much to say for Ciarlone. 

Where were DiLieto's other potential 
opponents? Logue said he had enough 
of political office. Hank Parker, who 
ran against DiLieto and Logue in the 
1979 democratic 
primary, 
backed 
DiLieto this time. 

When Parker, the state's highest 
ranking black official, ran in 1979, 
speculation arose that he had made a 
deal with DiLieto who had lost to Logue 
twice before. Whether or not he made a 
deal, Parker drew liberal support away 
from Logue, and this proved enough 
for DiLieto to win. Since then, one of 
Parker's top campaign aides has become 
the director of civil service and person-
nel. Parker's wife has been paid on the 
voucher system. And Parker himself 
went out on primary day this year and 
handed out literature for DiLieto out-
side the polls in the black wards. 

DiLieto won by less than a clear-cut 
landslide 
last month's primary 
because under half of the city's 46,000 
registered Democrats bothered voting 
-the lowest turnout in ten years. Don't 
expect many more on November 3. 

In the absence of any real campaign-
ing by DiLieto, Republican Elaine Noe 
has used her candidacy to make some 
interesting comments. She called for 
dismantling the housing authority; 
criticized the reduction in the number 
of police officers and promised not to 
collect absentee ballots in order to ques-
tion the high percentage of votes 
DiLieto always 
receives 
from 
the 
absentee ballots his workers bring in. 

But Noe-a travel agent who unsuc-
cessfully challenged Tony Ciarlone for 
his state senate seat last year- hasn't 
caused much of a stir in the latter part 
of the election campaign that never hap-
pened in New Haven this year. She's 
just been talking issues; issues that 
won't go away. 

• 
Paul Bass 
The opinions expressed in this s«tion art those 
of the indioidud writers. The New Journal 
wtlcoma Commmt on Yale and New HatJm 
issues. Smd proposals to P. 0 . &x 1704, 
New Havm, CT 06507. 


**Testing Teachers: A New System Ahead?**
**Author: Welter Jeeob**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

If you're a student with ecstatic praise or 
harsh criticism for your professor, you 
might take your views to Dean Lamar. 
If you're like most students, however, 
you'll never have a chance to let the Ad-
ministration hear how you feel about 
the Yale faculty. The comments you 
write on your course improvement 
forms each semester will go no farther 
than your professor. The opinions you 
pass on to the Course Cn'tique won't be 
used when teachers come up for depart-
mental evaluation. 

The fact is that no mechanism now 
exists by which students can have a say 
in faculty promotions and tenure deci-
sions. 
Nor has any standardized 
method been established by the ad-
ministration for the evaluation of 
teaching. 

AU that may change soon. Although 
the Yale faculty has shown strong signs 
of opposition, 
two administration-
appointed committees and members of 
the Yale College Council (YCC) are 
considering a comprehensive teacher 
evaluation system based on mandatory 
student evaluation forms. 

"We're definitely in support of having 
more student input into the whole • 
decision-making process: said Beth 
Pardo, a Morse College representative 
to the YCC.


The option•

Last year the Committee on Faculty 
Appointments took a close look at 
teacher evaluation systems at other 
schools, sources say. The committee, 
chaired by Professor James Tobin, was 
.;set up to look at Yale's policy towards 
tenure and non-tenure appointments. 
Professor Robert Apfel, former chair-
man of the Teaching and Learning 
Committee, said he gave the Tobin 
Committee the results of his own 
research into teacher evaluations at 
Princeton and Stanford. 

Horace Taft, this years chairman of 
the Teaching and Learning Committee, 
said he is interested in a number of 
teacher evaluation options and wiU put 
the idea before his committee if the 
Tobin Committee does not address the 
issue in its October report. A majority 
of Teaching and Learning Committee 
members said they favor discussion of 
the issue. 

Yale's present Course Improvement 
Form System, approved last April by 
Yale College faculty, 
was 
recommended by Apfel's committee. 
Students, under the rules of the system, 
suggest improvements to their profes-
sors at the end of each semester, but no 
faculty member is required to pass out 
the course improvement forms and 
• nobody besides the professor himself 
gets to see them once they are filled out. 

Princeton's system, in contrast to 
Yale's approach, makes student opinion 
of professors a matter of public record. 
Approved under student pressure in 
1968-9, the Princeton system requires 
all professors and teaching assistants to 
pass out two evaluation forms to their 
students, a multiple choice answer sheet 
and a sheet for written comments. The 
comment sheet, which asks for sugges-
tions on course improvement, is kept by 
the professor. The multiple-choice sheet 
is sent to the Educational Testing Ser-
vice, the same company that prints and 
grades College Entrance Examinations. 
The tabulated results then go to depart-
ment chairmen, administrators and the 
professors themselves, and are put on 
display at the Registrar's and Dean's of-
fices for all interested students to see. 

Princeton Registrar Bruce Finnie said 
many students use the result in making 
course decisions. Administrators and 
department heads use student opinions 
in making promotion decisions and set-
ting salary levels for faculty members. 
Finnie sees nothing wrong with using 
~ student input to evaluate all faculty, 
tenured and non-tenured. 
'The Princeton system was designed 
to be a multi-purpose instrument," he 
said. "On what grounds would you ex-
clude any faculty from the process?" 

Yet many other options remain open 
to Yale committees in search of a viable 
teacher evaluation system. At Stanford 
University, professors are not required 
to pass out evaluation forms, but must 
tell the Registrar if they don't. Students 
do not see the results of the polls, nor 
are they used to set pay scales, but they 
do figure in promotion and tenure deci-
sions, according to Jim Coleman, Stan-
ford's Academic Standing Advisor. 

At the Yale Medical School, where 
students receive no grades, faculty and 
students achieve a balance of power by 
evaluating each other. While teacher 
evaluations are discussed when pro-
fessors are bucking for promotion, 
students know their evaluations wiU 
come up when they apply for jobs. 

Stiff oppoeltlon 

If the administration proposes a system 
like Princeton's to the faculty, howev~r, 
it is likely to encounter stiff opposition. 
Apfel said he scouted out faculty reac-
tions towards a Princeton-styled system 
before his committee proposed the 
Course Improvement Form to the facul-
ty. On the basis of interviews with 16 
department chairmen and directors of 
undergraduate studies, Apfel decided 
Princeton's form wouldn't fly at Yale. 

"They all sort of grimaced at the 
evaluation form and said they didn't 
think it would have much appeal," he 
said. 

Many administrators and faculty 
wear the same grimaces today. Dean 
Lamar predicated a strong faculty veto 
if the issue ever comes up. 
•1 think they feel that they themselves 
are so concerned about teaching that 
they don't need such an elaborate 
mechanical device," he said. 

Lamar added that a faculty veto 
would be sufficient to kill the proposal, 
at least for this year. 
*I think a vote by the faculty deter-
mines it one way or the other," he said. 

Apfel agreed, but took a different 
view towards faculty motives. 
*It's not so clear that the faculty are 
disinterested commentators on that 
issue," he said. 

What'• •t etake 

Professor Bradford Westerfield, who 
served with Apfel on the Teaching and 
Learning Committee in 1980, said 
there was little confusion back then as to 
what bothered the faculty about a 
teacher evaluation system. 

"What the faculty opposed .. he wd, 
•was any hint that the forms would be 
seen by anyone but the professor him or 
herself." 

What was at stake in 1980, faculty 
and administrators suggest, is still the 
main issue today; the use of student 
evaluations in salary and promotion 
decisions could pose a threat to faculty 
wages and positions. But because the 
Tobin Committee is unlikely to recom-
mend that student opinions be used in 
wage decisions, Apfel said, tenured pro-
fessors would find that their jobs are not 
threatened under a teacher evaluation 
system. Junior faculty, on the other 
hand, would be placed under a new 
kind of pressure from the students. 

Dean Lamar said the faculty would be 
very sensitive about working in such 
conditions. 

"The faculty here has always been 
very touchy about what seems to be a 
coercive system of reporting," he said. 

Taft said he was not sure that pro-
fessors who felt they had to please their 
students would become better teachers. 

"It's not at all clear what that is, 
whether that is good teaching or not," 
he said. But caught between the desire 
to provide good teaching and the need 
to produce quality work, Apfel sug-
gested, many junior faculty members 
will look out for number one. 

"It's Catch-22 situation for some 
junior faculty 
members," he said. 
"Often, it comes down to 'what's going 
to do me the most good?"' 

Convenient apathy 

Whether or not any teacher evaluation 
system can pass a faculty vote may ride 
heavily on how responsible teachers 
think students will be with their new 
power. YCC Chairman Paul Bacdayan 
said even he is not sure students can be 
trusted to fill out evaluation forms 
responsibly. "I would hope that they 
would," he said "but I think it's easy for 
students to not write a very well 
thought-out essay." Westerfield said his 
own experience with Course Improve-
ment forms was not encouraging. 

"For two years in a row fve given out 
the forms in my class with a big pitch, 
and both years f ve gotten back 10 per-
cent of the class," he said. "That's a stan-
dard figure. • 

Such response rates go a long way 
towards explaining the faculty's cool 
response towards an evaluation system, 
Westerfield suggested. 

"If you really had a sense that the 
students as a whole really wanted to 
make poUing a serious thing, then the 
faculty would take it seriously as well," 
he said. 

But Apfel's research shows that what



**Student Input in Faculty Decisions**
**Author: Walter Jacob**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
• • • No mechanism now
exists by which students
can have a say in faculty
promotion and tenure
decisions.  
may be student apathy is combined
with faculty carelessness or hypocrisy.
Teachers who ask students to fill out
course improvement forms overnight or
after class do often get response rates of
20 percent or lower, Apfel conceded.
Those who set aside time during class or
before an exam, however, get rates of
90 percent and up. Moreover, every
professor receives a letter from Dean
Lamar when he gets his blank forms advising him of the best way to get good
response rates.

These days, Apfel said, only 50 percent of the faculty even bothers to use
the Course Improvement form. 90 Percent of that 50 percent, however, have
expressed satisfaction with the present
system through a Student Response
Rate Questionnaire that is distributed
to all faculty. Apfel shrugs his shoulders
at those who don't pass out the form.
"Some people just don't want advice,
unfortunately," he said.

Other faculty members point to the
Yale Course Critique as a sign of student
indifference to course evaluation. Many
critiques in the student-run publication
are written on the basis of responses
from less than 25 percent of the people
enrolled in
the
course.
Matthew
Hamel, editor of the Critique, said he
does not believe low student response
rates to Critique questionnaires mean
that students are apathetic. Much of the
problem, he said, lies in getting questionnaires to and from students.
"I don't think it's accurate to say that
the Course Critique is a firm indication of
whether students care enough to have
courses evaluated," he said. "We've had
less than optimal distribution and collection techniques recently."

A worrisome precedent
While nothing on the order of Princeton's evaluation system has ever been
used for all of Yale College, various
segments of the University have used or
still use evaluation forms. Freshman
evaluations decided the fates of many a
faculty member between 1919 and
1954, according to Professor Robert S.
Brumbaugh. Under the guidelines of
the Freshman Year Program, established in 1919-20, Yale freshmen were
offered a
limited
curriculum and
learned in separate classrooms under
the instruction of a separate and self-
governing faculty. Brumbaugh, who
did time as a Freshman professor, said
both Freshman faculty and students
were on trial in those days; the faculty, to prove themselves worthy of a full
Yale faculty position, and the students,
to show themselves worthy of a place in
Yale's upper classes. Failure by either
party could mean ejection from the College.

Freshman teacher evaluation forms
were sent to instructors, department
chairmen and others, and provoked a
great deal of bad feeling among faculty
members, Brumbaugh said.
"The freshmen felt it their responsibility to get rid of as many professors
as they could," he said. "I don't know if
it accomplished anything, except that it
gave them a heady sense of power
which they could have done without."

George Wilson Pierson,
Yale's
University Historian, portrayed faculty
attitudes towards the Freshman Year
very differently in his Yale: The University College.
". . . They taught with such enthusiasm and success," he wrote, "that
the Freshman Year, which had been
established in faculty bitterness, won a tolerant, even a warm consent."

Brumbaugh said he doesn't oppose
teacher evaluations on principle, but
warned against making the results
public without individual professorial
approval.
"If you create an adversary student
/faculty relationship," he said,"I think it
could be very dangerous."

Positive aspects
In at least two instances, however,
teacher evaluation systems are being used
with apparent success. The Yale
Medical School's system, established on
a vote by the Medical School Council in
1970 and subsequently modified, requires faculty to collect evaluations
from
all students throughout the
school's four year program. Dr. Howard
Levitin, Dean of the Students'
School of Medicine, said the faculty are
"very sensitive to the pressure of student evaluations. But partly because
students never see the tabulated results
of their evaluations, and because faculty
salary levels do not ride on good evaluations,
system
remains stable.
Levitin said the evaluation forms have
proved useful in discussions of faculty
promotions.
The chairman of each department


which is recommending faculty will not
infrequently mention that a professor
got a 'six' from his students," he said.
"The fact is that very important changes
take place as a result of that input."
Dr. Robert Berliner, Dean of the
Medical School, said he's happy with
the role evaluation forms play.
"I think they're useful," he said, "I
think they tell us who needs to pay more
attention to teaching and who the stars
are."

Princeton's system is working well,
Finnie asserted, because it is used wisely.
The student opinions expressed on
Princeton's forms, he said, are nothing
more or less than another means by
which a professor's performance at
Princeton may be evaluated. No tenure
decision, Finnie said, is made solely on
the basis of forms.
"It's just a factor in an overall decision," he said. "I would doubt if it's the
major factor. That isn't how you get
tenure at an institution like Princeton."

Finnie cautioned against viewing
evaluation forms as a system with solely
negative implications for the faculty.
Many junior faculty at Princeton applying for positions at other schools use the
results of student evaluations as proof of
their skills, he said.
"You know, there are positive aspects
to this system, too!" he said. "If you're
good, it can help you!"

This means you
The YCC's belated interest in faculty
appointments does not strengthen any
arguments for student responsibility in
teacher evaluations. Bacdayan admitted
that the YCC did not initiate the present administrative debates on evaluation forms and had little to do with the
creation of the Tobin Committee.
"There has been no effort made," he
said, but "it's something we're interested
in."

Given faculty attitudes toward
evaluation forms, however, it seems
clear that students who want a say in
faculty appointments are going to have
to take an active role in fighting for it.
And once an evaluation system is in
place, Taft suggested, the test of student
mettle has only begun.
"If the University would do something like this," he said, "they would in
effect be saying 'Look, we're going to
give you students some responsibility.'"
Walter Jacob, a senior in Silliman, has
written for The Washington Monthly,
The National Journal, and The Miami
Herald.


**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Andy Court**
**Page number(s): 13-14**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The prisoners right arm was suspended 
in the air because of the bullet wound. 

A few weeks before he would have been 
released from the halfway house, he 
went beserk and held nine people hos-
tage. He shot a girl. The police shot 
him. Now he was lying in a bed in Yale 
New Haven Hospital moaning. Some 
cop was sitting in the darkened hall 
watching him. 

The cop was Rick Randall- a 29 
year-old black police officer with three 
years on the job. Randall asked one of 
the nurses for some lined paper. She 
gave him a blank medical form. On the 
back of the paper, he wrote: 
Slowly I reap the fragments 
Of yesterday's dreams 
Merely left behind 
To remind me 
Of more optimistic time 
I guess it really doesn't matter 
If a dream 
Is ever harvested 
For rm a prisoner 
Of today's pessimistic reality. 

Officer Randall also writes songs. 
You might see him sometime playing-
the piano in the Jonathan Edwards 
common room. He'll be the clean-cut, 
baby-faced guy with the fine features, 
the slender fmgers, smooth voice. He'll 
probably be playing one of his own 
compositions smiling, 
glowing. 
It's 
possible you'll 
feel 
inspired just 

Randall is a lifelong New Havener. 
He grew up in rundown sections of 
town that have long since been tom 
down and done over. He was 17 when 
he attended the May Day Rally on the 
Green. Today, he lives in a handsome 
redbrick building on Dwight Street with 
two Siberian huskies, Lazarus and 
Loki, the latter named after the Norse 
god of mischief. 

Randall has had few encounters with 
Yalies, but last year he took two by sur-
prise. They had been mugged and were 
waiting for an officer to make a report. 
Randall was guarding a prisoner. One 
of the Yalies asked Randall why he 
seemed to be the only one around who 
was in a good mood. 
'"It doesn't make a difference if 
everything's happening or not happen-
ing. You mothers will stay in a good 
mood," he said. 
"You ever heard of existentialism? 
l Well, you must be an existentialist if 
you're going to be here." 

A short discussion of existentialism 
ensued. One of the Yalies asked if most 
cops thought that way. 
"rm not most cops," Randall said. 
"rmme." 

One of the Yalies recollected long 
afterward, "'t's not like he was the only 
competent person there. It was just a 
different attitude and a different age." 

Qrowln• up
Randall grew up in the slums of the 
Dwight and Dixwell areas of New 
Haven. He said his neighbors included 
a drug pusher on one side, and a lady 
who ran a numbers operation on the 
other. His father, a chef, divorced his 
mother when he was ten. For the next 
ten years, his mother supported six 
children by cleaning apartments. 
Sometimes she went on welfare. 

On weekends and over the summer, 
Randall visited his grandparents' home 
in Milford. "I was given suburbia lock, 
stock, and barrel," Randall said. "I was 
able to sort of balance my two worlds. 
"The asset to it was realizing that 
there was an out. There was something 
other than Dixwell. There was some-
thing other than the pushers on the 
street." 

Randall never had any trouble with 
the law. When riots broke out in Lee 
High School, he and a friend decided to 
spend the day in the Yale Art Gallery. 
Many of those who knew him were sur-
prised that he became a cop only 
because they thought he was going to be 
a lawyer. 

While in high school, Randall took 
classes on the Yale campus through the 
U.S. Grant program. After graduation, 
he decided he was sick of school. He 
worked in a department store and spent 
five years as an aide in Yale-New 
Haven Hospital. One day, coming 
home from work at a drug store, he saw 
the police recruiting van and decided to 
go for it. 
"I just thought I could do a better job 
than half the cops I met," he said. "I 
thought I could understand people bet-
ter." 

Although Randall questioned some 
of the police civil rights practices in the 
'sixties, he had never been anti-law. He 
made a distinction between being anti-
war and supporting the Panthers or 
hating the police. Nonetheless, Randall 
said, '1 still have my reservations about 
the police." 

He understands some things better 
now. For example, the reason why New 
Haven cops frequently stop black 
youths. A crime will be committed 
somewhere in the vicinity, and the 
youth will fit the general description, 
Randall said. 
"Now· you say, 'what's the matter, 
you stop every black kid running in a 
blue shirt and jeans?' That's as a kid. 
But the cop has to say, 'Well if I don't 
stop him, what happens if he's the per-
son?'" 

Randall has been stopped by police 
several times in his life. He admits 
white people get stopped far less fre-
quently, but says that doesn't par-
ticularly bother him. One thing does 
frustrate him: 
"If a white person's giving me a 
description and he says, 'he [the 
criminal] was black,' I say, 'well what 
complexion was he?' 'He was black.' 
'OK was he medium complected? Was 
he dark complected?' 'He was bU:uk.l' 
When you're dealing with that kind of 
mentality you sort of understand why a 
lot of people get stopped, because you're 
dealing with very skimpy character-
istics." 

About a year ago, Randall was walk-
ing down Chapel Street wearing a 
brown cowboy hat. An officer stopped 
him and asked him if he would wait a 
minute. 
"Sure Jack," Randall said. 
The officer looked up: "0 Shit." 
Another officer approached: "Does 
the kid check out?" 
"It's Randall, Lieutenant." 

The pl•nom•n
Something about Rick Randall's man-
ner makes him seem like a person on 
the verge of being discovered. It's partly 
his poise but it's also the bemused, laid-
back way he choses to deal with the 
world. When he's confused, he writes 
poems; "Sometimes it's a way to make 
sure I stay true to who I am." When he's 
frustrated, he takes photographs or 
plays the piano. 

Randall's played all kinds of music. 
As a child, he practiced classical music 
at his grandparents' house in Milford. 
In high school, he sang for a local rock 
group called Fortified Glue. He also 
worked as the pianoman at the Enor-
mous Room which used to be above the 
Gypsy Bar on York Street. 
'1 never liked performing," he said. "I 
didn't like the demands people put on 
you . Like they owned you." He en-
counters some of the same thing when 
he's out on patrol and some motorist ex-
pects him to jump his car, or some 
pedestrian expects him to provide a lift 
to the train station. 

Randall's artistic work reveals natural 
talent. Most of his songs have a mellow 
sound; it's like opening up a music box 
and hearing Cat Stevens. His poems 
are simple and sincere; he says all 
poetry should be easily accessible, free 
of any difficult metaphors or allusions 
that get in your way. 


--- Page 14 ---

14 
Hla nelghbora Included a 
drug puaher on one aide 
and a lady who ran a 
numbera operation on the 
other. 

Color photography is another of his 
interests. 
He has early morning 
cityscapes, abstract shots of colored 
lights, and a series on seals. He took 
one picture of a frost pattern taken 
through the windshield of his car as 
another car was passing by. He took 
another of a butterfly and a bee sitting 
on a flower. "I ran around trying to 
catch those butterflies and bees with a 
regular lens," he said. 

On P•trol
Like other officers with only a few years 
on the job, Randall fills in when they 
need someone to patrol in a car, but he 
doesn't have a regular beat. Often he 
spends his time answering complaints 
on the telephone or xeroxing reports in 
Records. 

He probably would have been an-
swering phones on Friday, October 2, 
but some writer called the chief and said 
he wanted to ride with Randall. On 
what proved to be a fairly typical night, 
Randall dealt with some perennial 
problems- car accidents, disorderly 
conduct, disturbing the peace. 

About halfway through his shift, 
Randall assisted on a strange accident 
case. A drunk was driving down the 
street. Someone rammed into him and 
apparently beat him up. The problem 
was that the drunk couldn't remember a 
thing. He couldn't even confirm that 
someone had run into him. To com-
plicate matters, the drunk bad lost his 
keys. The officers decided to tow away 
the car because they figured the drunk 
wouldn't remember where be had left it. 

The thing about patrolling is that you 
can't ever relax, Randall said. You 
come across some silly, petty things, but 
you never know when something is go-
ing to happen. Randall remembers the 
time he was first one to arrive on the 
scene of a shooting. A guy was sitting in 
a van; he had been shot in the head. 

After handling that incident, Randall 
had to go to someone's home and ask 
them to tum down their music. "That's 
the way life is," Randall said. "Life 
doesn't give a damn; it just goes." 

While cru1smg on one of the 
sidestreets along Grand Avenue, Ran-
dall came upon a group of teenagers in 
dungaree jackets. One of the guys was 
shuffiing a deck of cards. Some girls 
were sitting on the hood of a car. 
"Hey officer, Howya doin?" 
"Lousy," Randall said smiling, "How 
about you?" 
"You get any complaints officer? You 
want us to leave?" 

Randall asked if they had been mak-
ing trouble. They said they hadn't. 
Randall suggested that they leave 
anyway. 

Later that night, Randall was called 
to back up another unit. Two officers 
were having trouble getting a short, 
stout woman into the back of the deten-
tion van. 
"Monica," one of the officers said. "I 
thought you said you were going to be 
good." 
"I can't. I can't," she said. 
"Now come on Monica, go ahead." 

Monica tried again. It wasn't just that 
she had trouble lifting herself into the 
van, but everytime the officers tried to 
help her into the van, she broke down 
crying. 
"I can't, I can't. Please." 
"Now Monica ... " 

One of the officers seemed like he was 
about to lose his patience. "I've got to 
get going." Randall stepped in. "Here 
you go Monica. Come on, go ahead. I'll 
help you." 
"I can't. I can't." 
"Sure you can. Here you go." 

Randall's voice remained at the same 
even keel throughout, and Monica 
eventually got into the van. She was go-
ing to the station for disorderly conduct, 
Randall found out afterwards. She'd 
probably be out within a few hours. 

The last call of the night was an acci- .. 
dent on East Rock. A tow truck passing 
by had called it in. A car was smashed 
against a rock wall; the driver was 
nowhere to be found. The inside of the 
car was littered with at least 20 beer 
cans. It reeked worse than a drunk's 
breath. 

Randall eventually tracked 
down the car owner's son. Yes sir, his 
Dad took the car. No sir, he hadn't seen 
him since. Yes sir, certainly sir, be 
would 
give his father Randall's 
telephone number. 

Another shift ended. Randall took his 
lunch at 11:30 p.m. 

Randall said be isn't optimistic about 
the chances for promotion. To really get 
ahead, he said, you need •a hook," 
someone who can help you through the 
political labyrinth of the department. 
Randall shrugs it ofT; he said he knew 
about the politics going in. It doesn't 
disappoint him. 
"I still have no idea what I'm going to 
do with my life" he said. He's thought 
about going back to school, maybe 
becoming a teacher. For the time being, 
however, he's happy with his work. 
• 
" 


**Title: In search of a white collar union**
**Author: Paul Hothemz, Yale Employee Organizing D t·i, UA W- TOP organize- Charlene Block**
**Page number(s): 15**

Charlene Block has commuted to New 
Haven from Terryville, Connecticut 
five days a week since February of 
1979. In the last year, she has taken on-
ly two weeks of vacation, even though 
she qualifies for five. Her task is not an 
easy one. She heads up a rotating staff 
of full and part-time office workers who 
for two and a half years have tried to sell 
one cause to the Yale Community: 
union representation for Yale's 2,800 
Clerical and Technical employees. 

Since the late 1960s, various groups 
have tried to organize Yale's white collar 
workers into a union. Partly because of 
the difficulty of the task, none of them 
has succeeded. The National Labor 
Relations Board (NLRB) requires that 
an organization collect the signatures of 
thirty percent of the workforce being 
organized to hold an election on 
unionization. To date two groups have 
collected the 800 signatures necessary to 
call for an election at Yale. In both elec-
tions, held in 1971 and 1977, a majority 
of the employees voted against union 
representation. 

But these past failures have not ended 
the story. Today, two unions, the 
United Auto Workers (UAW) led by 
Charlene Block, and the Federation of 
University Employees Local 35, the 
union of Yale's 
dining hall and 
maintenance workers led by John 
Wilhelm, have ongoing campaigns to 
convince Yale's white collar workers to 
join their rank.s. 

The tenacity the unions have dem-
onstrated is not surprising in light of the 
TNJIRollon R.ggs 
size of the stakes involved. If a union 
successfully organized the clerical and 
technical employees, it would control 
the largest group of employees on cam-
pus. While the power to raise salaries, 
improve fringe benefits, or set up bet-
ter, and probably more expensive, 
working conditions would go to the 
workers, the successful organizer would 
get increased union dues as well as a 
certain share of the power which would 
come from such an organization. 

Because the clerical and technicals cover 
virtually every aspect of university ad-
ministration, a strike of all of these 
workers could, in the words of John 
Wilhelm, "cripple the University." 

With this kind of potential, the 
unions could go to the bargaining table 
and make significant changes in the 
status quo at Yale. While those changes 
would most likely improve the working 
conditions of a large number of Univer-
sity employees, others might not fare as 
well. The increased costs to the Univer-
sity could result in higher tuition, fewer 
services, and even the loss of some 
clerical and technical jobs which the 
University could no longer finance. 

Union organizers point out that 
working conditions, 
in 
particular 
salaries, are not as good as those of 
other white collar workers in New 
Haven. 
The lowest clerical 
and 
technical salary grade at Yale, which in-
cludes Mail Clerks, Delivery Aides, and 
Typists, pays between $3.80 and $5.00 
an hour. 
Unionized secretaries at 
Southern 
New England Telephone 
15 



**Title: The Unionization of Yale's White Collar Workers**
**Author: Paul Hojheinz**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Company (SNETCO) with only basic 
typing skills make between $4.45 and 
$8.41 an hour. 

What's 
more, Yale service and 
maintenance people, the blue collar 
workers which include the dining hall 
and Physical Plant employees, make 
more 
than 
their white collar 
counterparts. T he lowest paid service 
and maintenance people at Yale, which 
include waitresses, waiters, light custo-
dians and elevator operators make 
$6.10 an hour. In addition, they receive 
four cost of living increases a year, 
which last year totaled $.58 an hour, or 
$23.00 a week. White collar workers 
don't receive an automatic cost of living 
increase in pay, although the University 
periodically raises their salaries. The 
most recent revision, which went into 
effect on July 1, 1981, amounted to an 
11 to 12 percent increase over the last 
salary revision in September of 1980. 
But these figures have not sent people 
running to the unions. A number of 
factors have complicated, and continue 
to complicate, the union organizer's 
task. 

"The nature of the employees, the 
size of the campus, the fact that you're 
dealing with a 
different class 
background than you normally deal 
with in blue-collar situations" all make 
clerical and technical organizing dif-
ficult, according to Charlene Block. 
The banner of white collar workers in-
cludes everything from lab technicians 
and computer programmers to librar-
ians and secretaries, all of whom come 
with attitudes and concerns as diverse 
as the skills they use. The organizers 
must not only communicate with this 
large group of employees, spread out 
from laboratories on Science Hill to 
phone stations and offices at Yale-New 
Haven Hospital, but also unite them 
behind a common set of grievances or 
principles. 

Another factor which has hindered 
the unions, Block says, is that their 
backgrounds are different from those of 
workers who are traditionally associated 
with unions. 

"Their whole philosophy about a 
union through their upbringing has 
been different" from that of blue collar 
workers, Block said. 

"Maybe their dads own businesses." 
Furthermore, some white collar 
employees have strong ties of loyalty 
with Yale. They are less inclined to 
form a 
coalition with an outside 
organization 
that 
might hurt the 
University or send them out on strike 
against it. In 1968, shortly after the ftrSt 
drive to unionize clerical and technical 
employees began, Henry Chauncey, 
then Special Assistant to the President 
of the University, made a candid com-
ment which shed much light on the rela-
tionship white collar workers have with 
the University. 

"Of the twelve workers I have talked 
to-" Chauncey told the Yale Daily 
News, "and I don't call them workers, I 
call them friends- not one thinks that 
they need a union." 

This personal rapport which the 
clericals and technicals have with 
management help the University re-
main in good standing with them, 
regardless of working conditions 
Because this same rapport is con-
spicuously missing between the service 
and maintenance people and manage-
ment, they can turn much more easily 
to a union to redress their discrepancies 
in pay than the white collar workers 
can. 

Because workers' perceptions are far 
more important than the reality of 
working conditions, the negative 
perceptions that many white collar 
workers have of unions have kept them 
from voting in favor of joining a union. 
If a union aucceaafully 
organized the clerical 
and technical employ .. a, 
It would control the 
largeat group of 
employ .. 
a on campua. 

"We have great serv1ces that we offer 
to (white collar workers] above and 
beyond just being a part of the UAW," 
Block said. 

"But I think there's been some misap-
prehension from the people as to 
whether they need to address these 
problems with a union because people 
consider that a union is an abstract 
thing, another party coming in trying to 
make abstract decisions for them." 

"What fve seen of the Unions has led 
me to distrust them,• one secretary 
commented. 

"They told us we'd get a 70 percent 
raise last time. 
That's ridiculous," 
another added. 

"There's nothing (the unions] can 
give me that I don't already have,• in 
the university job. 
While Wilhelm may point proudly to 
the things Local 35 has accomplished in 
the last decade, few white collar workers 
have forgotten that these sweeping 
changes came only after a series of bit-
terly contested and controversial 
walkouts. Local 35's first strike in 1968 
lasted only one day. But in 1971, when 
their contract expired, they went •on 
strike" for seven weeks; in 1974, for ten. 
Their most recent strike in 1977 lasted 
for thirteen weeks, leaving dining halls 
closed well into December of Fall Term 
1977, and workers without a job or 
regular salary ~ughout that period. 

However controversial these strikes 
were at the time for the blue collar 
workers, they accomplished, in the 
words of John Wilhelm, "everything, 
and I mean that quite literally." In 
1968, blue collar workers made scarcely 
above the minimum wage. In 1980, 
they are among the highest paid dining 
hall workers in the country. 

But for white collar workers, the ends 
required to bring these changes about 
don't necessarily justify the means. 

"If you look at the history of relation-
ships between the University and Local 
35, I think that very few clerical and 
technical employees would like to ex-
perience that," Jerald Stevens, Vice-
President of the University, 
who 
oversees the nuts and bolts of the 
University operations, said. 

Another factor has complicated the 
union drives: for the first time, the 
white collar workers are being courted 
by more than one union. 

Block and her co-workers say they .. 
might me for an election with the 
NLRB some time this spring, one year 
later than they said it would be last fall. 

"It depends on how many people are 
confused by the fact that two unions are 
fighting over them and how many peo-
ple that conflict turns off to unions 
altogether," Block said. 

At that time, the UAW was the only 
union with an ongoing clerical and 
technical drive. Then Wilhelm and 
Local 35 threw their hat into the ring 
and started a competing drive last 
November. 

"I don't happen to think that having 
more than one union involved is bad. I 
think that to the extent that people have 
a chance to make choices and to see how 
different unions function, that's fme," 
Wilhelm said. 

Neither Wilhelm's opinion nor his 
subsequent actions sit well with the 
UAW. 

"If the 'other union' had not jumped 
into the drive, we would have had an 
election by now," Block said. 

Now Local35 and the UAW are try-
ing to address these issues but their tac-
tical approaches differ. 


--- Page 17 ---

John Wilhelm, uf Local 35 
effectively communicate what the union is 
all about to all of those little pockets of 
people that are all over the campus," 

Local 35's drive is trying to do just 
that. They have attempted to set up a 
"rank and ftle organizing committee," of 
500 to 525 people with at least one per-
son in every individuaJ office or depart-
ment. To date, they have passed out on-
ly one brochure, relying rather on this 
extensive grapevine to take their cause 
to the blue collar workers themselves. 

The United Auto Workers has pur-
sued a different tactic throughout their 
drive than Local35 has. Since 1979, the 
UAW has passed out countless pam-
phlets, booklets, leaflets and brochures. 
They have set up booths, worn signs 
and held large publicized meetings. The 
goal of this work is to lead a very visible 
and public campaign rather than estab-
lishing an internal network like local 35 
is trying to do. Similarly, they have fli-
ed two unfair labor practices against the 
University with the NLRB, one involv-
ing a Peter Halsey, Director of Com-
munity Relations at Yale, quotation in 
the New Havm 
R~gistn', and another 
involving an employee 
who was 
harrassed by h::r supervisor for passing 
out union leaflets. 

But this style of organizing evokes the 
' UAWs heritage of industrial organiza-
tion and the hard-fought battles of 
former days. In a booklet called the 
UAW fact finder, an unsigned letter to 
TNJ/RoUin Rogga 
local union representatives maintains 
that "those older members to whom the 
past struggles are but dim memories 
need to be reminded by their leaders 
that no benefit is guaranteed unless we 
have strong, 
militant and united 
members who give their leaders all-out 
support." Another pamphlet holds that 
"beauty, culture and prestige don't pay 
the rent [or] put food on the table." At 
last spring's Communiversity Day, 
some of the employees who have joined 
forces with the UA W carried signs 
which read "We're only a pawn in their 
game." 

But the University itself can offer ser-
vices to the clerical and technicals too, 
and if they wish to keep the unions out, 
they will need to demonstrate to white 
collar workers that the University's in-
tentions and working conditions are 
good. Because the employees work for 
the University, and not for the unions, 
the University can improve working 
conditions in 
a 
way 
union 
organizers can only promise to do. 

"'ur position has always been that 
generally Yale and the employees who 
are being organized would not neces-
sarily benefit" from a white collar 
union, Vice President Stevens said. 

And in the last year and a half, the Ad-
ministration has embarked on an im-
proved worker training program, set up 
a counseling and preliminary grievance 
committee network of"personnel repre-
sentatives," and begun a "new evalua-
tion system fm· managenal and profes-
sional workers that has as its basic prin-
ciple that there ought to be more ex-
plicit and formal statements of what we 
expect people ought to do," according to 
the Vice-President. At the same time 
Stevens said the · University has ~ 
"ongoing effort" to keep salaries marked 
to market so that we are meeting com-
petition." 

In short, the University has found, 
like many other management fLnlls in 
the 1980s, that the way to keep unions 
out is to be a good employer. "We ought 
to take the kind of corrective actions 
that make sure that people don't see 
unions as their only redress alternative," 
Stevens said. 

Still, because the University under-
stands the size of the stakes involved 
and the potential of a white collar union 
to cause them financial and other 
headaches, they are taking no chances. 

Yale has retained a H artford-based law 
firm, Seigal, O'Conner and Kanin, to 
advise them on "labor-related matters," 
according to Stevens. 

But the union organizers do not feel 
that Seigal, O'Conner and Kanin play 
such an impartial role. Block maintains 
that while the University calls them 
"labor consultants, we refer to them, 
lovingly, as union busters." 

Despite the difficulties involved, the 
union organizers remain optimistic 
about their chances of having an elec-
tion soon. "Conditions have deterior-
ated to the point where there's no ques-
tion that they'IJ form a union in the next 
couple of years," Wilhelm said. "I don't 
know what the precise timetable will be, 
but I feel confident there will be an elec-
tion before june," or during this school 
year. 

The United Auto Workers also hope 
to file for an election at that time. "All 
Universities that we've organized take 
two or three years," Block said. "And 
most of them don't have other unions," 
competing with them. 

"The campaign between the unions 
has not been easy, but neither one of us 
has begun the campaign against the 
University," she added. 

But the Administration is not certain 
it will face this situation so soon. "I 
think the unions are going to have a 
damn difficult job organizing,- Jerry 
Stevens said. "And I don't think they're 
~oing to be successful." 

• 
Paul Hojheinz is a sophomor~ in Silliman. 


**Title: The Paper-Mache Video Institute**
**Author: Bird Brenner**
**Page number(s): 18**

The harvest moon shines brightly above 
the massive hulk of industrial silhou-
ettes in New Haven's warehouse 
district; Hamilton Street is silent, lit by 
persistently pink mercury street lights. 
Romance pervades every darkened cor-
ner of the Bethany Shirt Works buil-
ding. A man in tuxedo and battered 
sneakers makes his way up five flights of 
creaky stairs; a women's rhinestone 
tiara glistens in the factory's greasy 
parking lot. A small crowd gradually 
congregates upstairs in the studio head-
quarters of the Paper Mache Video In-
stitute. Tonight a 
time-honored 
American tradition finds new meaning, 
new vitality, in the Institute's long-
awaited, sixth annual Miss America 
Spectacular. 

A battery of television sets Uned up 
against one wall of a darkened room 
assail the viewer. Most are tuned to the 
Miss America Pageant, and the plastic 
glory of Atlantic City, New Jersey, is 
reproduced in Technicolor throughout 
the room. Many of the sets are wildly 
mis-tuned, 
with 
nearly 
fluorescent 
orange and green tones; sound blares 
loudly across the room in a distorted 
chorus. A young boy plays with a video 
tennis game, oblivious to a Brooke 
Shields commercial echoed some twenty 
times in front of him. Grown men 
manipulate toy tanks with remote-
control radios. From behind a large 
wooden cut-out of a tank, people help 
themselves to wine and cucumber dip. 

PMVI is not by any means a typical 
art gallery. Indeed, there are those who 
would insist that the Institute has ab-
solutely nothing to do with art. 

"I'm dedicated to avoiding art," 
muses Paul Rutkovsky, the patron saint 
of PMVI. Rutkovsky, who founded the 
Institute, teaches at New Haven's Paier 
School of Art. He keeps a low proftle, 
focusing attention on his work. "We live 
in a time where museums are cathe-
drals; they've served their purpose for 
holding icons of the past. This is why I 
have a passion for reaching out to a dif-
ferent audience, one that has. nothing to 
do with the A-R-T world. What is vital 
to our culture is off the picture plane, 
out of the proscenium and into the 
department 
stores and onto the 
highways." A large sign at the entrance 
to the Institute (which actually is located 
on the top floor of an old shirt factory) 
reads: "Dedicated To The Promotion 
Of Transient Culture." The medium? 
Xerox, of course. 

Rutkovsky chooses to construct most 
of his sculptural installations out of 
transient materials; 
videotape and 
papier mache figure prominently. Both 
decay in a comparatively short time 
span. Huge houses, built of papier 
mache and reaching anywhere from 
floor level to nearly ten feet high, haunt 
one studio area of the Institute. Con-
tained within each one is a flickering 
video display. As the viewer peers into 
the windows of each house, she or he 
enters into a smaller world. In one 
house, the video display consists of a 
child's head, the figure composed of 
papier mache relief, the video screen 
comprising a face, which changes from 
a smile to tears over a. period of time. 

In a taller house, a man sits in front 
of a silent TV screen, and the viewer 
gazes past him, through another win-
dow to an alleyway and into a video 
display of a street beyond it. Rutkovsky 
says the houses represent the forced 
containment of people in their in-
dividual boxes; houses, cars and institu-
tions are rigid enclosures of isolation. 
The inclusion of video screens serves as 
a reminder of television's omnipresent 
impact on our lives. People learn to 
relate to an inanimate box instead of 
each other. 

There is a stark sense of irony in Paul 
Rutkovsky's work. Confronting the 
culture's obsession with death machines 
with a childlike innocence, he combines 
some rather ugly images with happy 
colors and buoyant gesture. A recent 
exhibit, entitled "Paintings for the 
Future," consisted of sixty or seventy 
small paintings lined up on white walls. 
Rutkovsky remarks that they are "rep-
resentatives of military war machines in 
very slick fashion; I just wanted to pre-
sent them in a highly designed mode_. It 
was actually a very cynical presenta-
tion, because they were so pretty 
-graduated colors, muted greys. My 
cynicism hides occasionally, but it was 
out that month." Subject matter inclu-. 
ded airborne missiles gliding past the 
upturned 
tails 
of 
happily leaping 
whales, studies of tanks and a detailed 
mini-series called "Marty Watching 
TV," which depicted a young man with 
.. 



**Title: Paul Rutkovsky and the Papier Mache Video Institute**
**Author: Bird Brenner**
**Page number(s): 19-20**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
vacant face in front of variously colored 
television sets. 


Television is a recurring theme in 
Paul Rutkovsky's work. As a video ar-
tist, he has created a number of unusual 
tapes, 
including one which 
was 
presented at a 
Silliman Sheep's 
Clothing concert a few years back, a 
piece entitled "How to Draw." In the 
videotape, 
Rutkovsky appears and 
shows the viewer how to draw various 
objects (such as a sink, cat, etc.,) and 
finally, shows a ftlmed demonstration of 
each object in use. The last lesson 
demonstrates the drawing of a gun, and 
the video protagonist is assassinated. 
End of lesson. One reason why Rutkov-
sky's work is so accessible to those "un-
trained" in art, and appreciated by those 
who might normally reject it out-of-
hand, is that no abstraction is carried 
beyond everyday life. If it can be 
translated into television terms, it can 
be understood by any modern person. 


Needless to say, there are strong 
political overtones to Rutkovsky's art. 
However, there is no ideology involved 
in its presentation, no preaching. He 
says his creations simply 
reflect 
militaristic attitudes rampant in today's 
world. 


A show upcoming in Los 
Angeles, opening on November 14 at 
Contemporary Exhibitions, is called 
"Airplane Remnants," and consists of a 
Korean War bomber control panel, 
whose switches are operated by Rutkov-
sky. Portable tape players and hanging 
lights are placed at different points in 
the gallery, scattered among wings, 
stewardesses, cockpits, pilots, wheels, 
bullets, tailfins, and missiles. Rutkov-
sky operates the lighting and sound 
selections at whim; sounds include 
recordings of an atomic bomb explo-
sion, bullets, and machine guns. The 
audience wanders about the gallery, 
Paul RuJlwvslcy insidL 1M Pap" Mtu:hi VidLo lnstitu« 
viewing the changes through plastic 
opera glasses and filling out order forms 
for their favorite airplane remnants. 


The message behind the art, in this 
case, is gleaned through direct par-
ticipation. 


Participation is what an evening at a 
Papier Mache Video Institute opening 
is all about. At any given moment, you, 
the viewer, might be drafted to xerox 
your face in slow motion or assist in the 
photography of a seltzer bottle being 
shot at a live electrical wire. Artists are 
always willing to discuss their work, and 
the physical layout of the Institute is 
intriguing, at times a bit confusing, 
because the walls are moved periodical-
ly. The surrealistic surroundings of a 
totally industrialized neighborhood of-
fer a vista refreshingly unlike Yale's 
ivory towers. 


Although the Papier Mache Video 
Institute is held together largely by Paul 
Rutkovsky's imagination and a little 
rubber cement, it is the home of 
numerous exhibits and performances 
created by other artists, whose interest 
range from the mildly avant-garde to 
the wildly incomprehensible. Sound 
sculptures, painting displays, video anr! 
fLlm projection and performance pieces 
are all part of the Institute's calendar. 


New York's Carmen Beuchat per-
formed two evenings of modern dance 
on October 16 and 1 7. Her perfor-
mances, according to Paul Rutkovsky, 
"include works that combine pure dance 
with mixed media modes that are both 
mysterious and exhtlarating." 


**Title: Research: An approach against leukemia**
**Author: Geoff Hayward**
**Page number(s): 21**

This year over 1 ,500 Americans will fall 
victim to Leukemia. By now, the dread-
ed blood disease's effects are well known 
to doctors; an acute leukemia patient 
has from a few days to a few months to 
live, while the chronic patient may have 
up to five years. 


But with 
luck, 
the 
gruesome 
leukemia statistics may start to change 
as early as next year. As a result of the 
research of Drs. Csaba H orvath and 
Krishna Kalghatgi (Yale Engineering 
and Applied Science) and Dr. Joseph 
Bertino (Yale Pharmacology), effective 
treatment may soon be available for not 
only leukemia, but breast cancer, lym-
phoma and head and neck cancers as 
well. 


For years, 
Leukemia researchers 
have had an anticarcinogen that rids a 
patient's bloodstream of leukemic cells 
but also destroys tissue and bone mar-
row. Bertino and Horvath have found a 
way to inject the anticarcinogen into the 
bloodstream and then filter it out before 
it can damage the body. The ftltering is 
done through an enzyme reaction that 
takes place outside the body in a 
machine called an enzyme reactor . 


Dr. Csaha H()1'f)Q/}z shows his mzyme reactor 


Currently the researchers are testing 
their technique on dogs with encourag-
ing results. If all goes as planned, the 
machine could be used on human be-
ings in a little over a years time, Bertino 
said. 


The developments in cancer research 
which led to the discoveries of Bertino, 
H orvath and Kalghatgi can be traced 
back as early as 1949. In that year, a 
drug named Methotrexate (MTX) was 
developed which could fight leukemia, 
lymphoma, and breast, head and neck 
cancers. Unfortunately, it turned out to 
be equally good at destroying human 
tissue and bone marrow. 


In 1971 , Bertino's laboratory distilled 
a strain of bacteria capable of breaking 
down MTX into harmless by-products. 
From the bacteria Bertino derived an 
enzyme dubbed Carboxypeptidase G' 
(CPDG•). 


The question then became how to put 
CPDG•, into use against leukemia. 
Researchers considered a "rescue opera-
tion" in which a leukemia patient would 
be injected with a potentially lethal dose 
of MTX. Human bone marrow and 



**Enzyme Reactors: A New Weapon in the Fight Against Leukemia**
**Author: Geoff Hayward**
**Page number(s): 22**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
22 
soft muscle tissue were judged to have 
about tree day's worth of anti-metabolic 
reserves for protection. Before the 
MTX got a chance to attack the bone 
marrow, the patient would get a shot ot 
CPDG 1 to destroy most of the MTX in 
his bloodstream and "rescue" him from 
a grisly death. 

Unfortunately, an injection of 
CPDG1, directly into the bloodstream 
would have serious side-effects. The 
body's immunological defense system is 
so acute that it attacks foreign proteins 
like CPDG1 as soon as they enter the 
bloodstream. The amount of CPDG1 
necessary to eliminate most of the 
MTX could well send the body into 
anafolactic shock. In other words, by 
trying to produce antibodies to attack 
the enzyme the body would soon ex-
haust its own defense system. The treat-
ment for leukemia was thus becoming 
an extended chain of cures and counter-
cures, each one almost as lethal as the 
original disease. 

The breakthrough came with Hor-
vath and Kalghatgi's research in 
biochemical engineering. In the early 
1970s Horvath began developing a 
device known as an •enzyme reactor" 
that would permit doctors to use 
CPDG1 in a new kind of rescue opera-
tion. Horvath's idea was to force a reac-
tion between CPDGt and MTX out-
side of all contact with the bloodstream. 
The reactor, an unimpressive-
looking plastic cylinder about 8 inches 
long and two inches in diameter and 
packed with hair-like tubules, works 
much like an artificial kidney. Large 
quantities of blood are pumped out of 
the body and filtered through hairlike 
tubules that run the length of a reactor. 
Stored within the tubules is enough 
CPDG 1 to break down a lethal dose of 
MTX. As blood containing MTX is 
fJ.ltered through the tubules, the MTX 
enters the tubule wall and is broken 
down by CPDG 1 into harmless acids. 
The purified blood is then pumped back 
into the body. 

The beauty of the Horvath reactor is 
that CPDG1 never enters the body, and 
thus never causes a reaction from the 
body's immunological system. The 
reactor can safely eliminate in the space 
of two hours over 90 percent of the 
MTX in the bloodstream. 

Despite the advantages of Horvath's 
reactor, it is still a long way from being 
used on human beings. Like any other 
tool in cancer therapy, it must first be 
tested on laboratory animals. Bertino 
said he is frustrated by the strict testing 
requirements set for cancer treatments. 
"'n my view," he said, •the re-
quirements of doing testing on anti-
cancer drugs are much too stringent." 

Partly because of these rigid re-
quirements, neither Bertino nor Hor-
vath is eager to commit himself to a date 
on which the reactors will be ready for 
use. 

"'t will probably take at least a year 
before we have enough ·data . . . to 
allow for work on humans," Bertino 
said. Horvath hopes the reactor will 
follow the path of another enzyme reac-
tor he built to combat PKU, a disease 
causing mental retardation in children. 
That device is slated for use on human 
beings later this year. 

For the moment, however, progress 
is gradual and equipment is expensive. 
Both Horvath and Bertino worry about 
their sources of research funds. 

Bertino, who gets his funding from 
the National Cancer Institute, said 
many scientists are suffering the same 
anxieties. 

"I think everyone believes, and I 
believe, too, that it's going to get more 
difficult to get funding," he said. 

Horvath, who said his funds come 
from the National Institute of Health, 
fears that even a constant flow of 
research dollars may not pay for his 
work. 

"The problem seems to be that while 
grants may remain the same size, the 
inflation eats up a lot, • he said. 

Horvath also worries that any sudden 
brake in the money flow, even if it is 
later resumed, would cause a serious 
set-back, to his research. 

Horvath, Bertino and Kalghatgi are 
all concerned about the supply of 
CPDG 1. Presently, the enzyme is being 
produced by a New England manufac-
turer. The production of such a small 
quantity of enzyme is extremely expen-
sive, and that expense is passed on to 
the researchers themselves. Horvath 
has suggested that Yale should invest in 
the facilities necessary for enzyme pro-
duction, both to provide more security 
for projects like his own and to instruct 
graduates and undergraduates in Bio-
technology. 

For Horvath, the enzyme reactor fits 
neatly into a much greater long-term 
plan. That is to bring the benefits of 
chemical engineering to medicine. 

"The pure scientist is an egoist," he 
said, "concerned only with the pleasures 
of knowing." 

It remains for the engineer to bring 
that knowledge to· society. Horvath cites 
an old cliche, "The scientist makes it 
known, the engineer makes it work." 

Both Bertino and Horvath feel in-
tense pressure to •make it work." If the 
CPDG1 reactor works well, then work 
will begin to improve upon it, or to 
build new reactors working with new 
enzymes. As Horvath puts it, "a suc-
cessful project never ends, it just keeps 
growing." 

• 
Geoff Hayward, a junior in Dtwmport, has 
wriltmfor tJu Yale Daily News. 


**Serge Lang's File**
**Author: Lelia Wardwell**
**Page number(s): 23**

Books-----------
Serge Lang's File 
Lelia Wardwell 
T'he File: Case Study in Correction 
(1977-1979) by Serge Lang 
1981 Springer-Verlag 712 pp. 
Everyone who knows Mathematics Pro-
fessor Serge Lang will agree he is not 
one to let things slide. The opinionated, 
energetic, argumentative character, 
who has been known to eat his meals in 
Commons so he can debate furiously 
with freshmen, has just published his 
first non-mathematical book. It comes 
as no surprise that the book is a study in 
controversy. 

T'he File by Serge Lang is literally a 
-4.fue-a collection of letters, articles, 
documents and memos that grew out of 
Lang's disapproval of a social science 
questionnaire he and several thousand 
other professors received four years 
ago. Who else but Lang would go so far 
as to publish a ftle of correspondences in 
a 712 page volume? 

It all began in the spring of 1977 
when two sociology professors, E.C. 
Ladd from the University of Connec-
ticut and S.M. Lipset from Stanford, 
issued a questionnaire to a random 
selection of 9 ,000 professors, entitled 
"The 1977 Survey of the American Pro-
fessoriate." The purpose of the survey, 
the researchers said, was to "collect in-
formation useful to the formation of 
sound education policy" by obtaining 
faculty opinion on their careers, current 
events and higher education. Lang said 
he found the survey •stupid: and its 
questions irrelevent, poorly phrased 
and prejudiced. Disgusted, he promptly 
threw it out without answering it. After 
he received two reminder notices from 
the surveyors to return it he was so ir-
ritated he wrote them an angry note 
telling them they were •parasites of the 
,.cademic community." "Lay offi" he 
wrote. 

Lipset wrote back defending himself. 
Other professors and deans got involved 
in the exchange primarily because Lang 
made xerox copies of his letters and sent 
them to people he thought would be in-
terested in the issue. The "carbon copy" 
list grew to 140 people. Within a year 
articles appeared in T'he Chronicle of 
Higher Education, The New York Review of 
Books and The New York Times. The en-
tire controversy, initiated and brewed 
by Lang himself, escalated to such an 
extent that the ftle was not officially 
closed by Lang until more than two 
years after the original questionnaire 
had been released. He closed it because 
it had "become logistically impossible to 
keep [the ftle] up and communicate it to 
the [carbon copy] liat following the same 
criteria of completeness which have 
been used up to now." 

Readers may be put off by The File at 
first. It is massive and composed of 
documents that at ftrSt glance seem bor-
ing and petty. The main issue of the 
questionnaire concems only sociologists 
and professors. 

But these first impressions are deceiv-
ing. The File is extremely interesting 
and often amusing. The important 
aspect of the book is not the debate over 
some obscure sociological survey. Lang 
subtitled his book, "Case Study in Cor-
rection." It is about the origin and 
spread of misinformation, how distor-
tions of the truth are so easily accepted 
and believed, what can be done to cor-
rect people's misunderstandings and 
how they react to these corrections. 

Lang explains in his introduction that 
he wants readers to look through the 
raw materials of the case so they can 
learn to decide for themselves about the 
issues and relate the problems in com-
munication here to comparable situa-
tions in their own experiences. 

The File provides an excellent glimpse 
into the 
world of the college 
faculty- what academic figures really 
think of each other and how they ex-
press themselves to their colleagues. For 
example, Professor Robert Merton 
from Columbia sent Lang this terse rep-
ly: "I find the peremptory and pro-
secutory tone of your letter anything 
but collegial; indeed, I find it most of-
fensive. I shall therefore not enter into 
correspondence with you on this or any 
other matter." 

It's possible to become so involved in 
the sub-plots that you forget entirely 
about the larger issues. For example, 
Lang and Professor Sigmund Diamond 
from Columbia attack Lipset for a book 
he had written on McCarthyism at 
Harvard in the early 1950s, and this 
gave rise to a new exchange of letters. 
Throughout the book, alliances develop 
and enemies are made. Correspondents 
mysteriously neglect to write back and 
are never heard from again. Reputa-
tions are harmed and questioned con-
stantly. 

At times the correspondence can be 
quite entertaining. 
Imagine these 
esteemed professors bickering with each 
other like schoolmates. In response to 
Lang's ftrSt angry note, Professor Lipset 
remarks "When and if ever [Lang] has 
an intellectual point to make, I will be 
more than happy to respond to it." 

Lang's character shines forth won-
derfully in his own letters. He even ad-
mits himself that "there is something in 
me that likes to agitate and make people 
aware of their assumptions." When he is 
writing to a sociology professor from 
Columbia he says of Ladd and Lipset: 
• As for basic courses, some of these guys 
ought to take spelling. On page 12 [of 
the survey] they misspell judgements' 
[sic]. Lipset misspelled 'publically' in his 
letter to me. How can one take that 
crowd seriously?" When Lang writes his 
last letter to Lipset, be signs ofT by 
declaring: •1 have decided to have no 
further communications with you. All 
further communications from you will 
be thrown out unopened." 

The File is an important and valuable 
book. It is an excellent resource for 
many academic fields including jour-
nalism, political science, psychology 
and sociology because it takes such an 
in-depth look at the basic problems of 
communication. And for the Yale stu-
dent who wishes only to hear our eccen-
tric math professor express himself 
bravely and defiantly to figures some-
what more formidible than college 
freshman, The File is ideal. 

uli4 Wardwell Calhoun 1985 



ANNOUNCING 
THE MEMBERS ONLY SALE 
Sunday, October 25th, 1981 
10 A~M. to 5 P.M. 
15% OFF EVERYTHING 
IN THE STORE* 
Admission will be by membership card only 
Free Refreshments 
Yale Singing Groups 
• Excepting only cigarettes, travel, calculators, records already on sale 
Record accessories, foreign language books, special orders, 
and New York Times Bestsellers already at 20% discount 
77 Broadway, New Haven, CT * Mastercard & Visa Welcome

