Publication date: October 13, 1995
Volume: 28
Issue number: 2

**MASTHEAD:**
- **PUBLISHER:** Christina Lung
- **EDITOR-IN-CHIEF:** Suzanne Kim
- **MANAGING EDITORS:** Kathmne Bell, Kate Schuler
- **BUSINESS MANAGER:** Audrey Leibovich
- **DESIGNER:** Harling King
- **PRODUCTION MANAGER:** Gabriel Snyder
- **PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR:** Brendan Koerner
- **CONTRIBUTING EDITOR:** joshua Civin
- **ASSOCIATE PUBLISHER:** Min Chin
- **ASSOCIATE EDITOR:** Benjamin Lumpkin
- **RESEARCH DIRECTOR:** Karm Jacobson
- **CIRCULATION AND SUBSCRIPTION MANAGER:** Dan Murphy


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- Tap Night Riots - Alex Funk
- Art for Art's Sake? - Natasha Hoehn
- Preparing for Justice - Kate Schuler
- Weighing In: Athletes and Eating Disorders - Katherine Bell
- Intelligence Redefined - Jay Dixit
- About this Issue
- Points of Departure
- Between the Vines: Blintzes in the Promised Land - Sarah Beck


**Title: Tap Night Riots**
**Author: Alex Funk**
**Page number(s): 7**

It's all fun and games until someone gets punched in the face.


**Title: Art for Art's Sake?**
**Author: Natasha Hoehn**
**Page number(s): 12**

Cuts in federal funding for the arts bring a national debate to New Haven.


**Title: Preparing for Justice**
**Author: Kate Schuler**
**Page number(s): 16**

Yale spearheads an international effort to document the Khmer Rouge's atrocities in Cambodia.


**Title: Weighing In: Athletes and Eating Disorders**
**Author: Katherine Bell**
**Page number(s): 21**

Ever striving for perfection, some Yale athletes struggle to lose pounds and gain points.


**Title: Intelligence Redefined**
**Author: Jay Dixit**
**Page number(s): p. 26**

Experts at Yale and beyond argue that emotional development gauges aptitude better than standard IQ tests.


**Title: Between the Vines: Blintzes in the Promised Land**
**Author: Sarah Beck**
**Page number(s): 31**


**Yale Symphony Orchestra**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 4**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Yale
Symphony
Orchestra
Sbinik Hahm, Music Director
ntesda~ October 31
MIDNIGHT
Woolsey Hall
$3 in advance, $5 at door
More information: 432-4140


**Soaring Over New Haven**
**Author: Dan Murphy**
**Page number(s): 5**

New Haven wakes up late. The first bus 
leaving the Green for Lighthouse Point is 
deserted, and the ride through the silent city 
in the early morning darkness shows empty 
streets and closed stores. The silence is even 
more pronounced in the empty field where 
the bus makes its last stop. At 6:55 on this 
chi.lly September morning, three older men 
are standing near the perimeter, with 
binoculars pointed skyward. They don't say 
much, quiet with their expectation of the 
rising sun and soaring hawk. After all, the 
weeks between September 15 and October 15 
are the rush hour of hawk migration season, 
and today's Northeast winds carry the promise 
of a busy day of hawk-watching.

As the sun climbs above the tree line, the 
whitewashed lighthouse reflects a brilliant 
yellow, but the hawk-watchers don't seem to 
notice. Their squints are all directed vertically, 
scanning the sky for any sign of their prey. 
They are glad to feel the sun, though; .as the 
thermal energy heats the air, it gives the hawks 
the lift they need to soar.

Lighthouse Point lies in the migratory 
path of hawks headed south for the winter, 
making it one of the best spots on the East 
coast for bird-watchers. The New Haven Bird 
Club organizes the hawk-watch here every day 
in the late summer and early fall. It is open to 
anyone, and the Yale Ornithological Society is 
often in attendance. Last year when Yale 
professor of organismal biology John Moore 
taught "Biology of Birds," many Yale students 
carne to the watches. There are usually about 
a dozen of the faithful 
present.

Today 
should 
be 
crowded, with a 
bird club from 
Allen, 
0croBER IJ, 1995
Connecticut expected and a children's nature 
walk scheduled.

Fourteen kinds of hawks have been seen 
here, with six primary species passing 
overhead regularly: Sharp-shinned, Osprey, 
Northern Harrier, Merlin, American Kestral, 
and Cooper's Hawk.

Despite the favorable winds, today starts 
out slowly. The first hawk, an Osprey, doesn't 
make an appearance until 7:55. The sight of 
the brilliant white underside of its black-
tipped wings ends a long cold hour of 
anticipation. By 8:30, there are 15 cars in the 
parking lot, and a group of ten children are 
preparing for their nature walk.

On most days when a few hundred hawks 
pass overhead, the flurry of activity in the air 
is mirrored on the ground, as binoculars turn 
in unison towards the direction called out by 
the first viewer. At these times, Ronald Bell, 
the hawk-watch coordinator, listens for the 
voices he can trust to report to him the 
passing hawks, as he keeps a record for the 
national organization that tracks the hawk 
migratory patterns.

In the forest bordering the field, Jim Zipp, 
a New Haven Park Ranger, crouches among 
the trees with a cage of small birds like 
pigeons. When he spots a hawk passing, he 
gets these birds to flutter their feathers to 
attract the hawk. Zipp then catches the hawks 
and bands them so their migratory parterns 
can be studied further. When he catches a rare 
species, Zipp usually brings it to the bird-
watchers for them to ogle before he sets it free.

Today turns out to be a very slow day of 
hawk-watching. By 9 a.m. only a handful of 
hawks have passed by. But like fishing, the joy 
of hawk-watching isn't so much in the catch. 
As weekend-watcher Wllford Shultz sees it, 
"The worst day of hawk-watching is better 
than the best day at work."

On a slow day like this, the hawk-
watchers lapse into stories of past glory. They 
talk about the day last year when a peregrine 
falcon chasing a swan came right into the 
field. Or the day when a "sharpie" {a sharp-
shinned hawk) killed a warbler in the field. 
Then, there's the story of an exquisite red-
tailed hawk living a few miles from Lghthouse 
Point, which a privileged few have seen.

The crowd thins out around I 0 a.m., 
heading home with inevitable neck cramps. 
Some of the most dedicated will stay late into 
the afternoon.

When the bus returns ro the Green, it's 
hard to believe that it's the same city that had 
been so quiet just a few hours earlier. The 
mall is already crawling with activity, and the 
bus stops are crowded. A speeding car with 
music blaring frightens some unobserved 
pigeons, who hop and Auner around the hot 
dog stand on the corner.

-Dan Murphy


**Yale's Tabloid Witness**
**Author: GabrieL Snyder**
**Page number(s): 5-6**

It was the story that stunned the nation. 
This would be the typical opening to an 
article featuring Dr. Stephen Herman, a child 
psychiatrist affiliated with the Yale Child 
Study Center. Sensational news and big 
headlines are nothing new to Dr. Herman. As 
an expert witness, he has figured in some very 
high profile court cases. In 1993, Herman was 
a prominent witness in the Woody Allen-Mia 
Farrow custody battle. Mia Farrow's legal team 
called in Herman to dispute the Yale-New 
Haven Hospital report that cleared Woody 
Allen of allegations of sexual abuse. In 1994, 
Herman was the expert witness for the defense 
of Eric Smith, a 13-year-old who beat a four-
year-old to death in Savona, New York. In the 
highly publicized case, Herman testified that 
Smith suffered from "intermittent explosive 
disorder" and was not in control of his rage 
impulses. From a 20/20 appearance to 
comment on the Spur Posse, a group of jocks 
at a California high school who competed off 
the field by seeing which one could have sex 
with the most girls, to a guest appearance on 
CNN's Sonya Liv~!, Herman's opinions on a 
wide range of cases have appeared regularly in 
the check-out aisle. Most recently he was 
reported to be the expert witness in the 
upcoming McCaulay Culkin custody battle, 
but he will not appear due to what he called 
"technical legal reasons."

What makes Herman's views on these 
issues in such demand? Herman was hard
5 
. 
'


pressed to explain the media's attraction to 
him. He said, "I don't know quite why that 
happens. It's nothing that I necessarily seek 
out. "

At first Dr. Herman was hesitant about 
talking to a Yale publication, "I have no 
interest in getting publicity about celebrities 
or ever talking about them," he said. But 
Herman theorized that his early press 
appearances in high profile cases led the media 
to him more often. Dr. Herman was a little 
taken aback at the suggestion that he is a 
national expert and replied, "Urn ... I don't 
know what to say to that." National expert or 
not, the fact remains that one of the most 
widely quoted child psychiatrists in tabloid 
news is at Yale.

Well sort of. While affiliated with. Yale, 
Dr. Herman's office is 
in Wilton, 
Connecticut. Officially, Herman is an 
associate clinical professor at the Yale Child 
Srudy Center. But, he does not teach at Yale 
and says, "Lately, I haven't been too active." 
Inquiries at the Child Study Center led to 
confusion there. One person at the center 
said, "I haven't heard of him." Another 
explained that an associate clinical professor is 
an unpaid appointment, but when asked 
exactly what Dr. Herman has done with the 
center or what he did to get an appointment, 
she replied, "I can't answer that question."

Though Dr. Herman downplays his 
academic affiliation with Yale, the media 
usually names him "a Yale University 
psychiatrist." Even Herman points out that 
not all experts carry the same weight in court. 
He explains, "It's up to judges to decide 
whether experts are equally qualified or not. 
Because the person is qualified as an expert to 
testify doesn't mean the person has the same 
level of credentials or qualifications." When 
he was called in to testify for Mia Farrow, it 
was to dispute a report signed by Dr. John 
Leventhal (Hon. MA '92), a pediatrics 
professor at the Yale School of Medicine and 
director of the Yale-New Haven Child Sex 
Abuse Center. Though it would seem 
advantageous for Farrow's legal team to have 
another Yale expert, Herman doesn't see the 
connection. "I was requested by Mia Farrow's 
6 
lawyer to review the report. It had nothing to 
do with my academic affiliation."

- GabrieL Snyder


**First Time Strikes Out**
**Author: Faisai Choudhury**
**Page number(s): 6**

In eight months, as a member of the class 
of '96, you'Ll leave the Gothic sanctity of Yale 
in pursuit of wealth, honor, and altruism. 
Equipped with a philosophy degree and an 
unequaled, four-year experience, you've 
scouted the outer reaches of the post-New 
Haven world. Graduate school? Law? Med 
school? Still frustrated? Well then, what about 
dubbing 1V shows into Spanish and working 
as a part-time receptionist at a trendy hair 
salon?

Jackie Guerra, one of sitcom's newest stars, 
undertakes such a career on her show, First 
Time Out. Only three weeks into its first 
season, the show, featuring Guerra playing a 
bold Yale philosophy graduate, has hit rock 
bottom, securing a place as the least watched 
show among the major television networks.

First Time Out's failure is partly due to its 
mediocre supporting cast and its creativity-
deprived writers. Of course, a slot on the 
Warner Brothers Network at 9:30 on Sunday 
nights hasn't helped much either. Many have 
simply dismissed the show as a Friends or 
living Single rip-<lff.

Aside from the obvious shortcomings, First 
Time Out introduces a brave concept. Guerra 
is the first Latina-American to star in her own 
sitcom-a fact of which she's well aware. The 
Virginian-Piwt quoted Guerra as saying, "We 
hope to show a side of Latino culture you don't 
see on Cops." Guerra isn't shy about her 
crusade to propel America's Latino legacy into 
the cultural mainstream. At points during her 
show, snippets of Spanish conversation and 
'slang are sub-tided in English. Furthermore, a 
socially and racially diverse cast complements 
Guerra's minority heritage.

Sending a respectable, but flawed, 
message, the show's main problem lies not in 
how it attacks Mexican stereotypes. but the 
hypocritical paradoxes it creates while 
criticizing them. In a recent episode, Jackie 
(keeping her name in the show}, heads south 
of rhe California border to see a dentist in 
Tijuana in hopes of saving on medical fees. 
Her friend, Nathan (Craig Anton), a clueless 
Generation-X slacker, expects to see the 
Mexican dentist wearing a sombrero and 
poncho. Guerra clenches her teeth , 
denouncing stereotypes and chiding him for 
his ignorance. Then, strangely enough, the 
dentist, on bis way back from a fiesta, does 
appear in a sombrero and poncho. The writers 
sacrifice the show's message, ttying to pull in a 
forced laugh.

While Jackie attempts to fight ethnic 
stereotypes, the other characters remain 
confined within stereotypes as well. Nathan 
portrays the same mainstream vision of a 
twenty-something that rwenty-somethings are 
trying to avoid. One of Guerra's roommates, a 
dirzy blonde, is nothing more than a dirzy 
blonde. Even Jackie's boyfriend can't stop 
making lame fat jokes about her, refusing to 
sleep with her until she drops some pounds. 
By the end of an episode, you get the feeling 
that all young people are self-absorbed, 
superficial, and sex-crazed.

The writers of the show want First Ttme 
Out's audience to take for granted the 
brilliance of Jackie's Yale-educated mind. Yet, 
she has struck a wall with two dead-end jobs. 
In return for mocking her Yale past, she has 
added the how-will-we-pay-this-month's-rent 
component to the show. Yale, Guerra, the 
audience-who hasn't the show insulted?

Genuinely funny in her stand-up comedy 
days, Guerra was forced to deputize much of 
the comedy writing to the producers. Like 
Margaret Cho, the Asian-American star of AIJ-
.American Girl (whose show was cancelled by 
ABC}, Guerra must contend with the loosely 
planned and poor dramatic set up of the 
sitcom before raging against ethnic stereotypes. 
Nobody cares about learning lessons from a 
flop. With the downfall of other cultural 
vehicles like Ail-American GirL and The Jeff 
Foxworthy Show (representing the Southern 
belt}, Jackie Guerra's show has yet another 
stereotype to fight.

-Faisai Choudhury



**Title: The Tap Night Riots**
**Author: Alex Funk**
**Page number(s): 7-9**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
It's all fun and games until someone gets punched in the face. 
The Tap Night Riots 
A 
lone student staggers a!lgrily across the darkened Old 
Campus. A Road Warrior, post-apocalyptic, he is 
surrounded by rubble-shreds of rubber, paper, beer 
bonles, golf balls-that he does not notice. He is angry. 
Blood drips from his arm, and he screams for his enemies. 
"Where are they?!" His voice echoes off the indifferent walls of 
Farnam and Lawrence Halls. "Those assholes beat me up!" 
Nobody responds. 
He is calling for the Duke's Men. 
The Duke's Men are generally known to be a singing 
ensemble. Like most other Yale singing groups, they rehearse 
several times a week to hone their particular blend of a cappella 
music. While it is entirely possible that the Duke's Men include 
combat drills as part of their vocal warm-ups, there has been little 
previous evidence in their 43-year hiswry at Yale to suggest that 
they are in any way a fighting unit. 
So why is the Road Warrior so angry? 
Geoff Blanford (TO '97) waits at University Health Services 
for stitches for the fresh gash that prominently mars his forehead. 
Geoff has a large body, the kind required of bouncers and football 
players. When he steps forward to give his social security number, 
the woman behind the desk looks up at his painted face and asks 
what happened. 
"It is difficult to explain," he starts, the blood still fresh on his 
skin. "You see, I'm in a singing group ... " 
0croB£R IJ, 1995 


Vanderbilt Hall is an interesting place to be at 11:30 p.m. on 
September 28. In less than an hour, Geoff will receive the head 
wound that will send him to UHS. Presently, Michael Bakkensen 
(BR '96), dressed in white face paint and enjoying the adrenaline 
rush of anticipation, addresses the throng of people assembled 
beneath the archway. Some of these people he has designated as 
"blood donors," others as "semen donors." Bakkensen, after 
delivering specific instructions to each group, ends the rally by 
shouting a command: 
"Kic~ the shit out of every singing group you see!" 


At 12:10 a.m., the Whiffenpoofs are finally singing and are 
glad to be holding torches. About 500 people surround their 
dimly lit faces; maybe 200 in front of them and 300 behind. 
Those in front are packed around the steel-grate doors of High 
Street Gate, some clad in bright yellow bowling shim, others in 
marching black denim jackets. Many wear blue jeans. Geoff (pre-
injury) and his friends in the Baker's Dozen are here, sporting 
tribal warpaint on their faces and matching green shirts. These 
200-some oddly-dressed students are the members of Yale's a 
cappella singing group community, gathered together tonight for 
their annual Tap Night festivities, and they are anxious for the 
Whiffenpoofs to stop singing. 


When the final chord of "Wake, Freshmen, Wake" has 
sounded, the singers, armed with only their matching clothing, 
silver chalices and high adrenaline levels, will storm the Old 


Hundreds of other anti-singing-
group Yalies lie in wair further 
away from the High Street Gate. 
Some are lone thrill-seekers with nothing 
to do, but many others are war generals 
who have been battle-planning for days. 
Daniel Lyons (SM '98) is one such 
warrior, arguably the highest-ranking 
aqua-general on Yale's campus tonight. 
Daniel is largely responsible for the 
impressive crowd of nearly 300 gathered 
inside the Silliman courtyard, far from the 
Tap Night epicenter at the High Street 
Gate. He is the founder of S.P.L.A.S.H. 
(Soak and Punish Loud A Cappella Singing 
Hordes), an organization dedicated to 
providing appropriate ammunition and 
motivation to members of Silliman 
College. Under the watchful eye of 
Silliman Master Kelly Brownell, Daniel 
has distributed flyers and posters inviting 
Sillimanders to come out and defend their 
college from singers. He has even written 
a letter to The Yale Daily News 
warning, "we are going, in all means 
possible, to distribute a great quantity of 
water upon the singing groups." Daniel 
boasted to the News, "If an officer [of the 
law] is present on Tap Night, I shall try 
my hardest not to hit him when I am 
throwing water balloons. But hey, 
accidents do happen." 


This letter was brought to the 
attention of the Yale Police by the Singing 
Group Council yesterday afternoon. The 
response from the officer on duty was "I 
hope he does hit me with a balloon," 
ac~ompanied, one presumes, ~ith a wry 
grm. 


Luckily for both parties involved, 
Daniel and the two Yale Police officers 
nearby are stationed on opposite sides of 
the Silliman gate, and the crowd is saving 
its water for the singers. 


As the Whiffs sing at High Street, the 
frosh of Saybrook and Pierson Colleges 
prepare to "take back" Lanman-Wright 
Hall. The enemy from whom they hope to 
reclaim their dorm is an amorphous 
conglomerate of Yale organizations: 
improv comedy troupes, fraternities, 
athletic teams and, of course, singing 
groups. In the past two weeks, 
organizations of all four types have 
interrupted the serene nocturnal quiet of 
Lanman-Wright with loud, often drunken 
disturbances, and now, before chronic 
sleep deprivation permanently depletes 
their energy stores, the frosh are going to 
strike back. 


Santosh Aravind (PC '99) is not sure 
exactly what this rebellion will entail. He 
is aware of a fellow Wright resident who 
has anonymously threatened (again, 
through The Yale Daily News) to urinate 
out of his window onto passing singers. 
Drunk as he -knows many of his friends to 
be, Santosh does not consider this 
possibility a longshot. Brian Garland (PC 
'99) in the same YDN article, has hinted 
that the defense will be built from 
stronger stuff than water balloons. "From 
what I've heard, were I anyone that even 
remotely resembled a singing group 
member, I would steer clear of Wright 
Hall on Tap Night," he says. 


Valiantly, the Whiffenpoofs sing. 
Their concert is only a song-and-a-
half old, and already one member 
has been egged, several others doused with 
. an incredibly sticky red sauce, courtesy of 
Bakkenson's "blood donors." The crowd 
of 300 behind them is responsible for this, 
as well as for the loud interrupting 
interludes of "Hey, Jude," "Meet the 
Flintstones" and "Row, Row, Row Your 
Boat" that have drowned out parts of the 
set. No Whiffs have yet broken rank, 
though the senior men have agreed to use 
their torches to fend off attackers if any 
one of them is touched in person. 


Only the few singing group members 
directly in front of the Whiffs can hear 
the concert well, and so it is only these 
few people that get to enjoy hearing James 
Gore (TC '96) sing his solo line in the 
middle of "Eli's Comin'": "Eli's comin', 
gonna kick your ass, fool!" 


Those aren't the real words, are they, 
James? 


This is not the first Tap Night in 
which water will have played a prominent 
role. The past few years have witnessed a 
growing fad of aqueous assault against 
singing groups, with Silliman College 
leading the way. On Tap Night last year,


Rachel Garcia (TO '97), a member of 
Redhot & Blue, slipped on a staircase that 
had been doused with water and was 
knocked unconscious. Witnesses who saw 
the treatment of Jean McLeod (CC '97), a 
member of Something Extra, in the 
courtyard of Silliman that same night, said 
that it had strong overtones of sexual 
harassment. Two men grabbed an arm 
each and held her in place, while several 
others dumped buckets of water over her 
head. Something Extra wore white tap 
shirts that year. 


This year, in an attempt to keep the 
fun within the limits of decency, the 
Silliman Dean's office has issued official 
"Rules of Waterplay." These include "No 
throwing water from windows," "No 
aiming for the head," and the ever-
important "Nothing but water." Dean 
Flick is confident that no harm can come 
from safely-played water spores. Erin 
Callahan (SM '96) a member of Some-
thing Extra and Whim 'n' Rhythm, called 
Dean Hugh Flick today in hopes that he 
would somehow discourage the pending 
assault. He has done nothing of the sort. 


The song ends and bedlam descends 
upon the Old Campus. The singers 
scramble away from the gate, 
challenged immediately by a line of 
several dozen students who have formed a 
human chain and are chanting "hold that 
line, hold that line." The line holds for 
only a few moments; tooth marks on the 
arms of several students indicate that it 
has been chewed apart. 


Within moments, the BDs are 
attempting to enter Vanderbilt Hall. A 
massive barricade built from garbage cans 
and assorted human beings blocks their

**Title: Tap Night 1995**
**Author: Alex Funke**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
21 Broadway, New Haven • 562-<>407 
1 S
olo 
The on~ ( 1! most 
expenstve tfem you 
oH purchase. 
----YALE----
T-Shirts • Sweatshirts • Hots 
Souvenirs • Kid Stuff, & M>re IBIJ 
perms 
colors 
10 
S.P.L.A.S.H. organiz~r Dani~l Lyons (SM 
'98). Soaking sing~rs is fun! 
path inro the entryway, a barricade that 
constitutes 
both 
a 
triumph 
of 
undergraduate ingenuity as well as an 
unbelievable fire hazard. It completely 
stops traffic. Standing atop this L~s 
Miurabi~s-esque construction stands 
Doug Rubinson (BR '98). He has a whip 
in one hand and a jug of wine in the 
other. 
"Bring it on, you morherfuckers!" he 
yells. 
One by one, the Baker's Dozen do. 
Several manage to pass Doug's perch 
without incident. One, however, does not. 
Big hands grab Doug under the armpits 
and set him down on rhe ground, wine 
and whip still in hand. Before he has rime 
to react, he has been clinched in a 
headlock and is being punched repeatedly 
in the face. An observer will later recall 
that it looked as if Doug would 
"disintegrate" 
under 
the 
blows. 
Thankfully, he does not, nor does he 
report to University Health Services for 
his injuries. 
Meanwhile, Geoff is hit in the head 
with a garbage can while navigating the 
barricade. Undaunted, he and Doug's 
assailant run through the archway and up 
an entryway to fulfill their mission of 
welcoming a freshman into their singing 
group. 


The Society of Orpheus and Bacchus 
is in the process of rapping a freshman in 
Lanman-Wright Hall. Down in the 
courtyard, Nat Fogg (BK '97) waits 
inconspicuously, wearing not so much as a 
T-shirt or a pin to identify himself as a 
singer. He notices a student, presumably a 
freshman, standing in the next enrryway 
over, 
nervously 
cradling 
fire 
extinguisher, and gradually realizes that 
the guy is planning to spray the thing. 
The SOBs run out of the entryway, and 
he starts shooting clouds of sulfur dust 
toward their faces. The 30 or so people 
standing around and watching don't 
notice or don't care. Nat is having trouble 
breathing and runs over to stop the attack. 
As he approaches, the extinguisher turns 
slightly and belches into his face, 
temporarily blinding him. 
The rwo students fall on the ground, 
exchanging furious punches. At last, 
residenrs of Wright Hall and several 
S.O.Bs separate rhe two, who continue 
exchanging screamed threats. Neither 
knows the other's name; Nat has never 
been in such a fistfighr before. 
Nor far away, Santosh Aravind ts 
vomiting from the smell of sulfur. 
The men and women of Redhot & 
Blue are assembled in the shadows of Wall 
Street, rapping a new member. They have 
called on a blue phone and asked her to 
join them outside rather than conducting 
rhe ceremony in her room. They are 
trying to avoid a confrontation with 
S.P.L.A.S.H. 
Unannounced and uninvited, Daniel 
Lyons comes barreling down Wall Street 
with a bucker of water and scores of 
S.P.L.A.S.H. infantry close behind. The 
ceremony is cur short and Redhot 
Tm NEW jouRNAL 


members flee. They will finish tapping 
this woman days later in the sanctity of El 
Amigo Felix. 
While the Alley Cats, who have 
already navigated the Silligaundet on the 
way in, tap a member of Silliman's 
freshman class, senior Alley Cat and 
Whiffenpoof Josh Adler OE '96) talks to a 
S.P.L.A.S.H. participant down below in 
the archway. 
"What are you doing?" asks Josh. The 
other guy is holding a water balloon. 
"None of your business." 
"You're throwing water balloons at my 
friends." 
"It's just good fun ... " responds the 
balloon-holder, hoping the conversation 
will end soon. 
"You think hurting people is fun? 
Singing is fun! Hurting people is crazy!" 
The injuries mount. Fistfights all 
around. Water everywhere. A prankster in 
Silliman hits a BD alum in the back with 
a water balloon. The alum, who happens 
to be a Marine, knocks him quickly and 
heavily. to the ground. An older Duke's 
Men alum- Class of '74- is doused at 
point-blank range with a recycling bin's 
worth of water, and issues the challenge 
"Let's go!" to his attacker as water drips 
from his moustache. A student visiting 
from Connecticut College finds herself 
lifted off the ground by two strange men, 
who forcibly pry a garden hose out of her 
hands, cutting her arm in the process. 
Urine is dumped out of a window in 
Durfee Hall. And, of course, at some 
point in the evening, the Road Warrior is 
waylaid by one or many Duke's Men, 
inciting him to roam the night long after 
most of the combatants call it an evening. 
0croBER 13, 1995 
Finally, Tap Night ends. The singing 
groups, having replenished their ranks, 
adjourn to privately celebrate with their 
new taps. Responding to a disturbing-the-
peace call, the Yale Police rush to Calhoun 
College and break up a Spizzwinks (?) 
parry before things get our of control. 


I
t is another Friday as usual at Yale 
University. Frisbee-players dot the Old 
Campus, and Duke's Man Dorian 
Rivers (SM '96) walks down the flagstone 
path, keeping a wary eye out for the Road 
Warrior. He wonders if he should be 
wearing his Tap Shirr our in public, then 
laughs at the thought. The sun is out 
today, the memory of last night seems no 
more than a nightmare. 
Yet still: Geoff Blanford has stitches in 
his head, and two students in Branford 
may still be able to see tooth indentations 
in their arms. 
Silliman Master Kelly Brownell 
expresses no public remorse over the mob 
scene in that took place in his college. 
S.P.L.A.S.H. organizer Daniel Lyons is 
proud of the event, proud of his college's 
spirit and proud of the 'restraint and 
control showed by Sillimanders. Dean 
Betty Trachtenberg, on the other hand, 
calls Tap Night "a sorry day for Yale 
College." 
Sanrosh Aravind agrees. "It was 
supposed to be fun, something for frosh 
to bond over, but people took things 
much too far." 
Perhaps the most difficult aspect of 
Tap Night is the lack of coherent and 
reliable information about what really 
happened. Few students that took part in 
the commotion are willing to talk about 
it. "I am scared to mention my name," 
Strange as it may seem, 
there is still a strong fear 
around campus that 
scores have yet to be 
settled, that the Road 
Warrior is still angry. 
one of the anonymous contributors to this 
article tells me. "I don't want people 
looking me up and coming after me." A 
woman who witnessed the urine dumped 
out of Durfee Hall feels similarly, despite 
the fact that her testimony names no 
specific person or group of people. 
Strange as it may seem, there is still a 
strong fear around campus that scores 
have yet to be settled, that the Road 
Due to this fear, the process of atoning 
for the violence and preventing its 
recurrence will be a difficult one. The 
singing group community plans to present 
a coherent, unified plan to the 
administration outlining proposed 
changes for next year's Tap Night, but is 
still in the process of collecting verifiable 
information and testimony about this 
year's fiasco. Dean of Student Affairs Betty 
Trachtenberg, who oversees the rush 
process, has already mentioned the 
possibility of switching over to a "sealed 
envelope" selection system similar to that 
already in use at Stanford, thereby 
threatening to eliminate one of Yale's most 
unique traditions. 
As students wait to hear the fate of 
Tap Night, administrators puzzle over an 
event that, this year, proved to be more 
than fun and games. 
lal 
Akx Funlt is a unior in Calhoun Co/kg~. 
H~ is a m~mb~r of th~ Whiffinpoofi and th~ 
Dultt'sMm. 
11 


**Title: Art for Art's Sake?**
**Author: Natasha Hoehn**
**Page number(s): 12**

Cuts in federal funding for the arts bring a national debate to New Haven. Local arts 
organizations such as the Long Wharf Theater brace themselves for the future. 
Art for Art's Sake? 
t doesn't look like much: just another converted warehouse 
down at the wharf made inconspicuous and indistinct by 
grey industrial paint, large shipping crates, imposing 
advertisements for paper products and bagels and fish. You 
could drive right by and miss it altogether. But what looks like 
very little from the expansive parking lot out front is, in fact, a 
theater of national repute and a leader in the New Haven arts 
community. 
For within its humble trappings, the Long Wharf Theater has 
represented regional professional drama since its inception in 
1964. The theater touts such achievements as Tony Awards, 
Pulitzer Prizes, and productions picked up by Broadway and 
PBS. The Long Wharf maintains a multi-million dollar 
operating budget, employing over 200 theater professionals and 
producing ten plays annually. 
In addition, the Long Wharf Theater has developed outreach 
programs to involve the New Haven community in the arts. In 
recent years, the company has introduced over 2,000 New Haven 
students to live theater each season through Shakespeare's World, 
a program that runs workshops relating the plays to issues in 
students' lives. The company also offers lower-priced 
performance previews and presents audiences with the 
opportunity ro enjoy free open discussions with scholars and 
actors. 
Much of the Long Wharf Theater's success has been made 
possible by the National Endowment for the Arts. Established in 
1965 as a federal agency dedicated to developing and preserving 
the nation's creative talent, the NEA distributes millions of 
dollars annually to arts programs across the nation. Last year, 
with a budget under $200 million, the NEA supported 4,000 
12 
artistic endeavors nationwide, from folk art festivals in South 
Dakota, to chamber music groups in Florida, to the Dance 
Theater of Harlem. The NEA's primary beneficiaries represent 
the two extremes of the art spectrum: it promotes and sustains 
"cream of the crop" institutions like the Metropolitan Museum 
of Modern Art and the Yale Repertory Theater, and makes the 
arts accessible to all Americans through experimental education 
and community outreach programs. 
B 
ut heavy cutbacks in the National Endowment for the 
Arts' budget have forced the federal organization to slash 
its funding almost unilaterally. Press releases from arts 
advocacy groups report that the organization's budget for the 
fiscal year 1996-97 has been approved at $99.5 million, a 
reduction .of nearly $70 million from the fiscal year of 1995-96. 
The Long Wharf will be hit next year with a dramatic 50 percent 
decrease of its federal backing. Mter next year, the future of NEA 
funding looks even more bleak: the House of Representatives has 
advocated the outright elimination of the agency by the year 
2000. 
Around the Wharf, people are fiercely contesting the House 
position. The Long Wharf has received funding from the federal 
agency for every one of its 30 years, and never before has Edgar 
Rosenblum, executive director of the Long Wharf, feared for the 
agency's future. "It has become trendy to attack the arts," says 
Rosenblum. "But there is no reason to eliminate the NEA. The 
arts community depends on it for support, leadership, and 
recognition." Although his organization no longer depends on 
NEA funding as its lifeblood, having long ago established an 
endowment, attracted a stable audience base, and recruited 



**Title: The Arts in Peril**
**Author: Natasha Hoehn**
**Page number(s): 13-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The Long Wharf Theatre and the Elm Shakespeare program sponsor Shakespeare's World, a program is designed to 
acquaint New Haven high school with classic dramatic works. 
numerous corporate sponsors, he is nevertheless dismayed and 
confused at our leaders' recent maneuvers on Capitol Hill. 
Leaning forward in his black leather office chair, raising his 
hands as if to get our politicians' attention, Rosenblum questions 
the rationale behind the cutbacks; .he wonders why, at a time 
when his established and patently successful theater company 
flourishes-
in spite of the double threat of existing in a 
community still limping from years of recession and successive 
years of a steadily weakening national economy-the National 
Endowment for the Arts must reduce its funding to the Theater 
from a high point of nearly $200,000 a year to only $60,000 for 
fiscal year 1996-97. He cannot understand why the government 
would put clearly successful programs-like those at the Long 
Wharf-in jeopardy. Like administrators and artists nationwide, 
he worries how these cuts will affect his organization, and, 
almost 'resignedly leaning back in his chair, wonders if our 
national arts community can survive the budget crunch. 


But Rosenblum and his organization are not the only ones 
who will be affected by NEA cutbacks: from Yale's Repertory 
Theater and Art Gallery to the Audubon Court arts district, New 
Haven arts organizations are mobilizing to fight the cuts. On rhe 
shady rust-red Audubon street, where artists and students from 
the greater New Haven area photograph, paint, dance, rune 
instruments, and recite, concern about the future escalates as the 
national climate becomes increasingly averse coward rhe arts. 
Although organizations in this area do not receive direct funds 
from the NEA, arts organizers claim that the reduction and 
possible demise of rhe national agency will effectively eliminate 
leadership in the arts community. Cutbacks will substantially 
curtail the Connecticut Commission on the Arts' ability to give 
0cro&ER 13, 1995 
financial support to New Haven arts organizations. "The 
elimination of those funds will add up to a real reduction in the 
livelihood of arrs organizations. Everyone will feel an impact," 
predicts Bitsie Clark, publicist for the Arrs Council of Greater 
New Haven. 


The Arts Council of Greater New Haven has, for many years, 
given voice and unity to the Audubon arts neighborhood, 
promoting sponsorship and patronage of rhe arts, establishing 
cross-organizational and grassroots programs, and publishing a 
monthly newsletter which outlines the calendar of artistic events 
in the area. Situated at the heart of Audubon Court, the council 
sits amid the Neighborhood Music School, the Creative Arts 
Workshop, Artspace, the Educational Center fo r the Arts, 
Connecticut Public Radio and Television, the Little Theater, and 
the office of the New Haven Symphony Orchestra. Keeping close 
tabs on the effects the proposed cuts in federal funding are 
beginning to have on the community, the Arrs Council itself is 
considering applying for increased Connecticut Tourism Council 
funding to preempt potential financial difficulties. Clark 
elaborates: "You see, the NEA wields an influence far beyond the 
financial." She explains that one of the most important functions 
of the agency is to place a stamp of excellence upon artists and 
arts organizations, so that private donors know who deserves 
support, developing organizations know who to look to for 
leadership, and the artists themselves may be rewarded for their 
excellence by their government. 


In New H aven, the NEA primarily works to develop its 
expansion arts programs. "These experimental initiatives have 
traditionally abounded in the city. They begin with NEA 'seed 
money' and, if they succeed, branch out on their own," Clark 


--- Page 14 ---

14 
**Preparing for Justice**
**Author: Kate Schuler**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Craig Etcheson, the manager of the Cambodian 
Genocide Program, on-site in the Kanda/ Province of 
Cambodia. 
Preparing _for Justice 
S 
tanding in front of a filing cabinet in his office on the third 
floor of Hall of Graduate Studies, Ben Kiernan holds out a 
piece of paper. The rows and columns that criss-cross the 
page are filled, in the scrolling letters of the Khmer 
alphabet, with che names of Cambodians. Only the scrawled note 
written across the right side of the page undermines the orderliness 
of the record, "Kill them all," it says. The nore is signed by Deuch, 
the direcror of rhe Khmer Rouge extermination center at Tuol 
Sleng. 

As he runs his finger down a lefr-hand column, reading off rhe 
ages of the Cambodians on the lise-nine, nine, ten and so on-
one gets the feeling that this document is a kind of prize for 
Kiernan, Yale associate professor of history and the director of the 
Cambodian Genocide Program. The small smile he has on his face 
as he points out Deuch's signature is a wry one, signaling the lcind 
of cautious delight that surfaces when you realize that your enemy 
has jusr made a crucial mistake. 

This document, Kiernan says, is by no means an isolated 
record, a stray scrap left carelessly behind in 1979 by the Khmer 
Rouge recreating from Cam.bodia after four years of government 
conrrol. Thousands of such documents, chronicling rhe mass 
annihilation that accompanied Pol Pot's Khmer Rouge regime, exist 
in rhe basements of former prisons, in museums, and in private 
archives such as Kiernan's. Now, an arrempt is being made ro bring 
all of these documents together, to build a case-made stronger 
wirh each new record uncovered-against leaders of the Khmer 
Rouge on charges of genocide, war crimes, and crimes against 
humaniry. 

The endeavor, the Cambodian Genocide Program, was brought 
to life in May of 1994 with a bill introduced by Senator Chuck 
Robb (D-VA). The ensuing legislation, the Cambodian Genocide 
16 
Kate Schuler 
Justice Act,· established a State Deparrment Office of Cambodian 
Genocide Investigations ro collect informacion and to establish a 
tribunal through which to try the Khmer Rouge. 

· The State Oeparrment, in turn, contracted Yale to carry out the 
bulk of this wo.rk. Yale's Cambodian Genocide Program (CGP), 
headed by Kiernan, is co-sponsored by organizatio'ns with the 
imposing titles, and no less imposing missions, of the Center for 
International and Area Studies ar Yale and the Schell Center for 
International Human Rights at Yale Law School. 

The Genocide program here collects and archives documents 
and photographs to use as evidence of the Khmer Rouge's 
atrocities. The program also aims to form a permanent Cambodian 
Documentation Center, determine legal means of redress for the 
crimes of the regime, and train Cambodian officials and human 
rights activists in international and criminal law. 

The program, while large in scope and ambition, has a 
relatively small physical presence on campus. Kiernan, the director, 
and Craig Etcheson (DIV '69), the manager of the CGP, are at 
once the core and the bulk of the staff here. Beyond the 
involvement of a handful of Yale student volunteers, day-to-day 
operations-the cataloging, scanning, and processing of 
documents-rake place in Phnom Penh, Cambodia's capital, where 
Yale's CGP has set up the Cambodian Document Center. 

That the main hope for redress against the atrocities of Pol Pot 
lies in the hands of these two scholars at Yale, a foreign institution 
more than six thousand miles from Cambodia, testifies to the 
thoroughness of Pol Poe's assault on the Cambodian population 
and irs resources. Estimates of the dead are inexact-the current 
Cambodian government estimates 3.1 million; the United Nations, 
2 million; and the Genocide Program, 1.5 ro 2 million. But the 
targeted victims are clear. Khmer peasants, Muslims, Chinese, 


**The Graduates of the Cambodian Genocide Program**
**Page number(s): 17-18**

Buddhist monks, the educated elite, and those associated with the 
former government became instant targets for the Khmer Rouge 
when it came to power in 1975. The decimation of the latter 
groups........described by Ron Slye (LAW '89), the associate director of 
the Schell Center, as "the educated, the lawyers and judges: those 
who knew the law" -
inevitably hinders the effort to bring the 
Khmer Rouge to justice and necessitates the dependence on Yale's 
program. 

Cambodia's main law school has just reopened, Kiernan 
explains, and the legal profession, "almost entirely wiped out by Pol 
Pot," is beginning the slow process of rebuilding. "In the last 15 
years there has been an attempt to revive the legal system, but a lot 
mote training needs to be done," he says. Kiernan's Genocide 
Program will play a role in shaping this justice system, in preparing 
the new generation for its first and most public of endeavors. 

The CGP held a conference in August of this year that brought 
together international lawyers and human rights activists, who 
presented the legal options for bringing the Khmer Rouge 
leadership to trial. 

The foreseeable possibilities include a Cambodian domestic 
trial on counts of mass murder, an ad hoc international tribunal 
similar to the one formed in Rwanda and the former Yugoslavia, or 
a truth commission ro gather information and issue indictments. 

This is not the first time the world has thought to try the 
leaders of the Khmer Rouge, but it may be the most serious effort 
to date. Kiernan tells of the missed opportunities of the eighties, 
when, amazingly, the Khmer Rouge still held Cambodia's seat in 
the United Nations. At that point, he says, the Khmer Rouge could 
have been hdd accountable and brought before the World Court. 

But after the Khmer Rouge relinquished that seat in the early 
nineties, that opportunity disappeared. Kiernan speaks matter-of-
0croBER 13, 1995 
facdy, although not without hints of frustration, "The world could 
have said [the Khmer Rouge] had to answer a case on the genocide 
convention ... . Nobody did anything, despite a lot of lobbying by 
myself and others." 

In 1979, the newly formed Cambodian government established 
a tribunal to prosecute the Khmer Rouge leaders for war crimes 
against humanity and genocide. Held in absmtia, with none of the 
leaders on trial present-for who knew where they were?-the trial 





**Title: The Cambodian Genocide Program**
**Author: Katherine Bell**
**Page number(s): 19-20**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The main obstacle has been pulling all the 
evidence together. Kiernan himself has 
become almost a hero in this effort. He 
tells the story of the rescue of 1 ,000 pages 
of archives from a rural prison. Listening to 
the story gives the outsider an inkling of 
the disarray that characterizes the records 
of the Khmer Rouge period. One begins to 
understand for the first time the truly 
ground-breaking work of the CGP. 


In 1980, while doing independent 
research, Kiernan photocopied the archives 
of the prison-one of the most complete 
sets of prison archives seen at that point-
and deposited the copies in a museum in 
Cambodia. In the ensuing years, the 
originals were lost; when local residents 
began asking for the copies, the museum 
could not locate them. Kiernan went to 
Cambodia in August of this year and found 
them himself, "lying in a cupboard" in the 
archive room. These documents are being 
scanned into the program's database. 


The mandate established by the 
Cambodian Genocide Justice Act was 
slated for two years of work; the grant will 
end in 1997, at which point Kiernan hopes 
the CGP will have built a strong enough 
foundation to keep the momentum going. 
The database will be loaded onto the 
network, and the operations of the center 
will be turned over to Cambodian 
management. Etcheson is optimistic that 
all the publicity afforded to the project may 
bring in more funding and doubts that the 
work will suffer in any way after the two~ 
year deadline. 


The Khmer Rouge leaders, while at 
large, are not at rest. Since being 
overthrown in 1979, the Khmer Rouge has 
been waging war against Cambodia. For 
the moment, they are on the defensive, 
pushed back into northwest Thailand. 
While the Khmer Rouge constantly pelts 
the bruised body of Cambodia with threats 
of future injury, the Cambodians who work 
on this project must deal with the 
knowledge that future reprisals are possible. 
Kiernan admits this is "very much on my 
mind," but says that the Cambodians 
working on the project do not voice such 
concerns aloud. 


T here can be lirtle concern, it seems, 
among the projects volunteers for such 
hidden, hypothetical dangers when faced 
daily with the written record of the 
unimaginable horrors that have already 
transpired, for which the Khmer Rouge has 
yet to be brought to justice. 


**Town Pizza Advertisement**
**Author: N/A**
**Page number(s): 22**

**Title: The Weight of Winning**
**Author: Katherine Bell**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Health Services once a week during her 
freshman year to help her lose weight, but 
she never mentioned her bulimia. Her 
trainer never noticed the problem, despite 
the fact that Gallo's weight fluctuated 
more and more dramatically as the year 
progressed. One morning in the trainer's 
office, Gallo suddenly began to cry. When 
one of the trainers asked her what was 
wrong, she said "Nothing, I just can't do 
this." No one probed any further than 
that. "They kept saying 'Don't worry, you 
can do it,'" she explains. "What they 
thought they were doing was encouraging 
me to stick to my diet and lose the weight 
for sprints, but what they were actually 
encouraging me to do was continue 
hinging and purging." During her 
sophomore year, Gallo managed to stop 
by herself. 

T hough Yale's health service didn't 
detect Gallo's problem, Goldberg defends 
the existing medical system at Yale. He 
points to the fact that unlike some 
universities, Yale doesn't automatically 
dismiss athletes with eating disorders from 
participation in their sports, but instead 
tries to use the sport as part of a complex 
solution to the problem. The difficulty, he 
says, lies in pulling athletes at risk for 
eating disorders into the system. This 
year, Goldberg has already scheduled 
meetings with coaches and captains to 
plan ways to make the services more 
accessible to athletes with eating 
problems. A presentation Brownell gave to 
coaches about the causes, symptoms, and 
treatment of eating disorders convinced 
Young and Keefe to set up talks next week 
for their teams. Simpson has noticed a 
drastic improvement. Last year, she says, a 
single name in an athletics department 
brochure was the only resource of which 
0CTOB£R 13, 1995 
she was aware. 

When Gallo quit the crew team, she 
suggested that she talk to the freshwomen 
trying out to be coxswains about eating 
disorders. Black fully supported her efforts 
to prevent her experience from recurring. 
One freshwoman who had recovered from 
an eating disorder in the past decided not 
to continue tryouts after Gallo's talk. 

Goldberg has decided that Gallo's 
approach works. With Tom Beckett, 
Director of Athletics, he is planning a peer 
counseling program in which athletes will 
be trained to counsel other athletes about 
the resources available to them at Yale. 
The students themselves, Goldberg 
believes, will be more successful at 
bringing vulnerable athletes into the 
system. He expects the program to be 
running by the spring, and eventually, he 
wants the captain of every sport to be 
trained extensively to deal with the issue. 

D
alrymple, Gallo, and Fortunato 
will all graduate in May. With or 
without Yale's help, they have 
each survived moments in the pool, on 
the river, or on the field, when they were 
seized by an awareness of the destructive 
power sometimes wielded by the sport 
they loved. The freshwomen who will 
replace them next year will have far more 
resources at their disposal, if they face 
eating disorders. But the influences of 
University Health Services, coaches, even 
other teammates cannot alter the essential 
loneliness of eating disorders. And, says 
Gallo, an ideal coxswain still weighs under 
100 pounds. 

Katherine Be/1, a senior in Calhoun Colkge, 
is a managing editor ojTNJ. 


**Title: Intelligence Redefined**
**Author: Jay Dixit**
**Page number(s): 26-27**

y is it," wondered Peter Salovey, "that some 
of the smartest people we know are so 
stupid?" At the time, Salovey, Yale professor 
of psychology, was painting his house with 
the help of his friend John Mayer, a fellow psychologist with 
training in the field of intelligence. 

In the ensuing conversation, the ~o men noted that academia 
seemed to be a haven for bright bvt socially unskilled people. They 
challenged each other to define "charisma." Why is it, they asked 
themselves, that so many academics seem to have so little of it? 

By the same token, they acknowledged, there are other people 
who seem especially skilled at purring people at ease-those to 
whom one reveals one's deepest secrets. Why are some people so 
naturally easy to talk to that they make social interactions seem 
effortless? 

a leader in the study of emotions, Salovey proposed that a 
arge part of charisma might involve a set of emotion-related 
kills: being able ro understand and express one's own 
emotions, being able to read nonverbal cues in others, being able to 
calm people down or cheer them up and •tsing emotions to gain 
new perspectives on solving problems or to enhance one's creativity. 

Referring to his own area of expertise, Mayer offered his 
opinion: such a set of skills could constitute a certain kind of 
intelligence that couldn't be measured by an IQ rest. 

Their conversation resulted in the 1990 publication of a paper 
entitled "Emotional Intelligence," in which the two authors 
proposed a framework for thinking about emotion-related skills as 
a form of intelligence. 

When first published, the paper attracted little attention 
outside of the scientific community. But with the recent release of 
Emotional lnulligmu by Daniel Goleman, a N~w York Tim~s 
science writer, emotional intelligence has landed at the center of a 
storm of controversy about what it means to be smart. Already, the 
book is number five on the bestseller list. The cover of the October 2 
issue of Tim~ magazine proclaims that "emotional intelligence may 
be the best predictor of success in life." Even President Clinton is 
talking about it. During a recent campaign, Clinton's motorcade 
made an unscheduled visit to the Tattered Cover bookstore in 
Jay Dixit 
Denver. "I'll tell you what's a great book," he told reporters, "this 
Emotionallnt~//igmu. It's a very interesting book. I love it. Hillary 
gave it to me." 

According to Goleman's book, "Emotional intelligence is 
basically a different way of being smart." It involves the set of skills 
that Salovey and Mayer proposed, along with some additio!ls. 
What's more, Goleman claims that emotional intelligence skiUs are 
much better predictors of a person's future success than the skills 
traditionally measured by IQ. 

This, of course, is not a new idea. That's why we have words 
like "nerd" and "geek" to describe people who may have book 
smarts, but are socially inept. Conversely, we call people 
"charismatic," "popular," or "charming,'' if we find that they have 
the set of people skills we deem important. 

But somehow that conventional wisdom has gone ignored in 
modern psychological circles. Peter Salovey thinks that we owe our 
neglect of emotions to the fact that "the last 2,000 years of Western 
thought have always pitted passion against reason." Emotions have 
traditionally been thought of as disruptions that should be 
minimized and regulated because they disturb the thought process. 

Whatever the reason, emotions are seldom mentioned in 
connection with intelligence. Indeed, traditional intelligence 
researchers continue to be openly hostile to the idea that emotions 
constitute a part of intelligence. As a result, the idea that we possess 
an emotional intelligence is nothing shon of revolutionary. 

Part of the reason for the controversy lies in the media's 
portrayal of emotional intelligence. The cover of Tim~, for 
instance, tantalizes readers with the question, "What's Your EQ?" 
But according to Salovey, "There is no EQ. There's no EQ test. We 
would never argue that there is one, or that a single EQ is even a 
measurable construct." The test printed in Tim~ under the heading 
"One Way to Test Your EQ" is actually a test of optimism. 

Emotional lnttlligmc~ deliberately places itself in the midst of 
an already ·heated debate over intelligence. Goleman goes so far as 
to quote Richai-d Hernstein and Charles Murray, whose book Th~ 
B~/1 Curv~ corroborates Goleman's thesis, that "the link berween 
test scores and ... achievements is dwarfed by the totality of other 
characteristics." 

So why this talk about feelings all of a sudden? Goleman writes
THE NEW jOURNAL 

that he had a very good reason for bringing this up when he did. 
All around us, he writes, in our cities, in our communities, in our 
schools and on our streets, things are getring worse. In his preface, 
Goleman presents a compendium of some of the more disturbing 
stories in the newspaper that week. A nine-year-old's temper 
tantrum that turns into a rampage, a shoving match in a crowd that 
ends in a shooting, statistics about parents murdering their 
children, a neo-Nazi on trial for burning five women to death. 

What's the common thread here? "The news," Goleman writes, 
"simply reflects back to us on a larger scale a creeping sense of 
emotions out of control in our own lives and in the people around 
us. " 

Many of these problems, Goleman argues, have their root cause 
in the "surging rage and despair"· that is the result of poor 
management of our emotional lives. "This book," he writes, "is a 
guide to making sense of the senselessness." 

Goleman's definition of emotional intelligence lends itself to 
theories of behavior modification. Unlike the IQ test, which 
attempts to rate the purely genetic component of intelligence, 
emotional intelligence incorporates social influences. The solution 
is to teach it to our children in schools. 

The Social Development Program, headquartered is at 
Hillhouse High School, is taught in every New Haven public 
school at each grade level from kindergarten through senior high. 
Instituted in 1988, the program aims to combat the growing 
problems of violence and HIV. 

Tim Shriver, former supervisor of the Social Development 
Program, claims that, alrhough the program does not use the term 
emotional intelligence, "If you look at the examples, we're really 
talking about the same thing." Point for point, the Social 
Development Program teaches the skills that Goleman advocates in 
his book. 

The first skill of emotional intelligence is the ability to identify 
and articulate one's own feelings. This is taught starting in 
kindergarten, where children learn to give "I messages"-
statements that begin with "I feel." Training in using the 
vocabulary of feelings continues in various forms through the sixth 
grade. By learning to verbalize feelings in this way, children master 
the first skill of .EQ. 

0crOBER IJ, 1995 
In New Haven elnnmtary schools, students learn to "stop, calm 
®wn, and think before you act. " 

A second important skill is empathy. Mickey Kavanagh, one of 
the SOP's facilitators, calls this "knowing what it's like on the other 
side." Empathy is practiced in the fourth and fifth grades in games 
such as "Making Faces," in which one player receives a card with a 
"feelings word" and mimes it, charades-style. The other students 
are then challenged to read his facial expressions and body language 
to guess what feeling is being represented. The idea is that in a 
crisis situation, if each child is able to tell how the other is feeling 
and to understand the other's situation, they will be more likely to 
resolve the conflict peacefully. 

Goleman's third skill is motivation-what he calls "maintaining 
hope and optimism in the face of setback and adversity." Students 
are taught motivarion through a six-step process that includes "say 
the problem and how you feel," "set a positive goal," "think of lors 
of solutions," and finally, "go ahead and try rhe best plan." 

Children are also taught how to administer "warm fuzzies" -a sure 
way to cheer up their classmates. 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Jay Dixit**
**Page number(s): 28**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The last skill-and according Goleman the most important-is impulse control which is drilled into students early and often. A poster hanging in a classroom depicts a stoplight and reads: "Stop, calm down, and think before you act." The hope is that students will learn to think through their actions, rather than letting their anger move them to do something rash. Ideally, when confronted with a real-life situation, students will have already internalized the steps to a non-violent solution, and will be able to resolve the conflict peacefully.

The program has seen real results. There has been a decline in the number of 11-, 12- and 13-year-olds who report having had sexual intercourse, as well as a decrease in the number of situations in which the children report that they would fight.

Other testimonials abound: tales of parents getting along better with their children; a story about a sixth-grader who prevented her best friend's suicide by soliciting the help of a Social Development teacher; a student who is certain she would have ended up an unwed, pregnant teenager if she hadn't been taught to stand up for her rights in her Social Development class.

"I think the results are pretty close to spectacular," says Shriver. "Fighting is down, suspensions are down, safety is better, hopefulness is up. Children have a sense of the future."

Although the Social Development Program appears to be addressing the same themes as emotional intelligence, Goleman can't claim credit for its success. The program was developed by former Yale professor Roger Weissberg, in collaboration with educators, but independently of Salovey and emotional intelligence researchers. "I think it's a happy accident, frankly," Goleman says. "The fact that it was independently discovered by the program's developers gives me more faith in its intrinsic success. It suggests that there is a common core of competencies which act as a buffer or inoculation for a child facing perils like drug abuse or violence or dropping out."


**Page number(s): 29**

Yale psychology professor Peter Salovey believes an alternate form of intelligence.

Salovey objects to this thought process. "The press on this over the past two weeks, in part encouraged by the Goleman book, implies that this is the answer to social problems-this is the answer to teenage pregnancy; this is the answer to drug use; this is the answer to drop-outs; this is the answer to unemployment; this is the answer to dying prematurely." The danger here, Salovey argues, is in blaming the victim-in saying, "If only you were smarter about your emotions, this wouldn't have happened to you." The problem with that, Salovey says, is that it takes social problems and implies that they have individual solutions. "The idea that it's going to save the world from all these social ills, I think, is the wrong level of analysis."

Of course, no one can deny that a program that teaches children to be better problem-solvers, to negotiate difficult interpersonal situations, or, as Salovey puts it, "basically to learn how to share the basketball rather than punch the other guy and take it." Goleman's book will increase public awareness about the potential effectiveness of such programs.

"I think the critical thing to recognize here is that we're doing incremental work," Shriver said. "You don't expect kids to come in as if they just mastered long division and say, 'aha, I can do it.' What you're likely to find is a lot of small steps that result in a bigger picture that says that we as communities, schools, families are working better together."

What's the next step in emotional intelligence research? For starters, earlier this year the Yale Child Study Center established CASEL, the Collaborative for the Advancement of Emotional and Social Learning, to promote courses that teach these kinds of skills to children.

Meanwhile, Peter Salovey is working on a book of his own. Says Salovey, "I was going to call it something like Emotional Competency and Emotional Literacy, but now I'm thinking of calling it Emotional Competency and Emotional Intelligence." He laughs. "Why should Dan Goleman be the only one who gets to use emotional intelligence in the title of his book?"


**Title: Blintzes in the Promised Land**
**Author: Sarah Beck**
**Page number(s): 30**

WELCOME TO TEMPLE BETH-EL SAN ANTONIO, TEXAS. DO NOT ENTER WHILE CONGREGATION IS STANDING AT PRAYER. DO NOT WALK IN FRONT OF ALTAR," warned the sign at the entrance to the sanctuary. It was past eight o'clock, already winter dark; the lobby was dim, the sanctuary was lit, and a man wearing an Anti-Defamation League tie pin was lurking behind the door. The usher flinched slightly as I walked in. "Oh," he sighed, "you're here for Art Riklin."

"My grandfather," I apologized. "You will know him by his tie pin-"

Art, my grandfather of the ADL, stopped lurking, marched forward, took my right forearm in both hands, and hauled me to our seats, pretending that he meant only to kiss me hello. "You come here often, hmm?" he asked, and fixed me with a decent rendition of my uncle Eddie's leer.

"Day and niiiight ... " I said.

"Night and day!" he sang, on key.

"Cole Porter went to Yale. Class of '13."

"But you're late!" he said, tightening his grip on my arm. The cantor walked in, the congregation began the opening hymn, and we looked around for pillars of the community with whom we would exchange greetings after services.

"Malachti hashartit," said the cantor.

"Malachei haelyon," replied my grandfather and I. He held the prayerbook in one hand, straightening his arm so that the page was directly in front of my eyes. With the index finger of his free hand, he jabbed the appropriate syllable in time with the chant, lest we get lost in the Hebrew. This was, of course, as much for his benefit as for my own. We were six words into the Sabbath and had yet to lose our place. No one should ever go to services alone.


Art's son, my stepfather Scot, tried to laugh me out of an attack of anticipatory worry in the days before I left for New Haven. "You will look around and ask yourself, 'Diaspora? What diaspora? What happened to the exile, the dispersion?' There are so many Jews up there, Sarah. Compared to San Antonio, New Haven looks like Jerusalem. You will be in the land of The New York Times, and I, Scot Riklin-and my pork-eating, Christmas-celebrating brethren-will still be here."

"I'm scared."

"I don't often indulge in my parental advice urge, Sarah, or in the major Jewish cliches-but please try to be a mensch about this."

"It will be difficult not to be. They tell me that the horrible maelstrom of menschcn, the contingent of cliche itself, is building some sort of 'center for Jewish life' right near Timothy Dwight."

He took off his glasses, rubbed his eyes, and sighed. "Oh, no. No. Don't tell me that, please. I'll worry."

"Blintzes, Scot! On demand." We take our blintzes very seriously, but we like them better when it is not a rabbi, but instead a wild hog from the West Texas underbrush, who supervises their preparation.

"There is no good kosher food! No such thing! You know that."

"I'll be careful."

"I'd hate to see you get sucked into all that," he said.


"I adjure you, O daughter of Jerusalem!" I yelled at my unwitting and newly-arrived suitemate. "Why would you awaken the rabbi, or stir it up, until it please?" The Biblical "Song of Songs" did not make appropriate moving-day small talk. Nor, indeed, did I think that my visiting the Hillel rabbi was a suitable moving-day activity.

"Aren't you Jewish?" asked my roommate.

"Yes," I replied, with a straight face.

"You seem to have some problem with rabbis."

"Yes!"

"But you're Jewish-"

"It is because I am a Jew that I have this fear! Gentiles don't have to worry."

"Why are you going to see the rabbi, if it's so hard on you?"

"Someone at home--my natal rabbi, in fact-sent the Hillelim a letter, warning them that I was coming. It is good to infiltrate the hierarchy. My grandfather would be proud."


The Slifka Center is hardly half a block from Timothy Dwight College. However much I had once delighted in driving a car on the Sabbath, it looked like now I would be walking to services. With less effort than I cared to admit, I could make out the Hebrew on the sign: "Beit Josef," "school of Joseph [Slifka]," it said. The language wore out my patience, however, and I went inside to start my infiltration, finding not one, but two rabbis.

"Oh, you're Sarah Bedel," one said. "We got the letter. Marvelous! Wonderful letter. Were you sent a copy?" Courtesy, goodwill, and glee-all familiar, all appropriately rabbinical, and all much appreciated by this sojourner in a strange land.

"It is good to meet you both-"

"I am Jim Ponet. I am the director of Hillel. This is my colleague-"

"Sharon Cohen-Anisfeld. Pleasure to meet you."



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 31-32**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"How are you finding Yale?" 
"It has set in already-" I said, jaw set. 
"Yale has?" 
"No, no, horrible despair has-set in." 
"That is-maybe a bit premature, three days into the year." 
"Of course. You are right." 
Scot would have been highly suspicious of my enjoying the 
company of the rabbinate, but Art would have been glad I was not 
ruining my chances of political influence so early in the year. The Jew 
who alienates the power structure before Yom Kippur will fast alone and 
have much for which to atone, but I did not foresee any terrible trouble. 


Days later, I was eating blintzes made without milk or honey in the 
Kosher Kitchen. "Are you going home for the holidays?" asked someone 
at my right. 
"No," I said. "Spring break falls well before Passover this year." 
"What-" 
"It's probably just as well that I'm staying here-my grandmother 
had just formed the Commemorative Apple Salad into blocks the week 
before I came up here." Nan believes in advance preparation. Then I 
realized she was not referring to Passover, but the upcoming High 
Holidays. "No. My stepdad would laugh, I think, if I came home for the 
New Year." My earliest memory of Rosh Hashanah is of Scot's standing 
in the kitchen, making fake shofar noises so I might not regret missing 
the blowing of the ram's hom at services. 
"Your family isn't observant, then?" 
"Popart, my grandfather, is a big. tremendous deal on the Jewish 
political scene, back home. 'Moses! Golda! Art!' they say. But no, my 
stepdad and I aren't observant, except for the Seder." 
"Is that hard on you? Why all this enthusiasm, then?" 
"Don't say that!" 
"Is enthusiasm bad?" she asked. 
"The enthusiastic are all in temple youth organizations-wait, 
pardon me, nothing personal-" 
"Oh, no, I never did youth group. Never my thing." 
"Most of them wear sleeveless clothes. Scary types," I said. 
"I guess they aren't very observant-" 
"It's not the observance that worries me! Taste. Bad taste." 
"Better than at my shuJ-at home, the youth groups practically 
cover their hair. I think my mother was afraid that if I went to Israel, I 
would come back like that-very pious, very modest." 
"This was exactly what was worrying my stepdad-" 
"You were covering your hair?" 
"No, no, he warned me not to get sucked in, into this dairy lunch 
Ocro&ElllJ, 1995 
b i t • 
into all 
t h a t 
goes ~--••rJ 
with it," 
I said. 
"Too 
late, 
then. 
You've 
been 
assimilated, I guess." 
She grinned. 
"So to speak, yes." 
"And we are such a happy, cheerful 
band," she said, with tongue in cheek. "Maybe your High Holidays will 
actually be better up here, despite-" 
"Because of-" 
"Your being away from your family." 


The morning of Rosh Hashanah was swarming with prayer 
bawls of every stripe. There were Jews in the entryway, Jews in 
the restroom, Jews standing outside. After going to services, I 
called home. Scot answered. 
"L'shanah-'' he began. "I'm trying to think of the Hebrew for 
'Happy New Year'-" 
"L'shanah haba'ah-no, that's for Passover." 
"L'shanah tovah! Good year!" 
"Did we even remember to say, 'Next year, in Jerusalem!' last 
Passover?" 
"I don't know, Little Ms. Rabbi-don't take this great Jewish 
schol.ar's word for it, though." 
"Next year, in New Haven, then-may all, especially me, be free!" 
"Once I get that bursar bill, we'll see how 'free' you are. Those 
blintzes are on the meal plan, you're sure?" 
"This is Yale, Scot! Of course they a.re." 
"Where is this thing, the diaspora?" he teased, with his best Israeli 
inflection. "I see no dispersion there, in the Kingdom of the Kosher 
Lunch, at the Shrine of Tht Ntw York Ttmts." I had wandered out of 
the South Texas desen into someplace more temperate, where blintzes 
grew on bushes, and where there were no zealots to bother me as I ate 
them. 



I· 
fashion 
for women 
fashion . 
g 
r 
c 
he type 
clothing for women 
265 college street..,. new haven, c t 06510 ..,. 203.562.6772 
located downtown in the taft building ·

