Publication date: October 16, 1992
Volume: 25
Issue number: 2


**MASTHEAD:**
- Publisher: Sarah Diulio
- Editor-in-Chief: Kathy Reich
- Managing Editors: Emily Baukm, Charlotte Brooks
- Business Manager: Tina Asmuth
- Designer: Annette Kirchner
- Production Manager: Jay Porter
- Photography Editor: Jennifer Wang
- Associate Publisher: Kathleen Weyman
- Associate Editor: Joel Tesoro
- Associate Designer: Beth Zasloff
- Alumni Director: Rosita Choy
- Circulation Manager: Sonya Joo
- Staff: Kate Brewster, David Gerber, Erik Meers, Savannah Neely, Michael Rubin, Seija Tupasela
- Members and Directors: Edward B. Bennett III, Constance Clement, Peter B. Cooper, Andy Court, Brooks Kelley, Patricia Pierce, Fred Strebeigh, Thomas Strong
- Friends: Anson M. Ikard, Jr., Edward B. Bennett, Jr., Edward B. Bennett III, Blaire Bennett, Gerald Bruck, Jonathan M. Clark, Louise F. Cooper, Peter B. Cooper, Jerry and Rae Coun, David Freeman, Geoffrey Fried, Sherwin Goldman, John Hersey, Brooks Kelley, Andrew J. Kuzneski, Jr., Lewis E. Lehrman, E. Nobles Lowe, Peter Neill, Julie Peters, Fairfax C. Randall, Nicholas X. Rigosopoulos, Arleen and Arthur Sager, Dick and Debbie Scars, Richard Shields, Thomas Strong, Elizabeth Tate, Alex and Betsy Tordio, Allen and Sarah Wardell, David Yergin


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**

STANDARDS
Between the Vines: An American Outside Paris. - Kate Brewster.
Afterthought: A Union Unravels. - Ivo Banac.

FEATURES
True Faith. - Josh Auerbach.
The Struggle to Respond. - Jackie Cooperman.
A Dubious Distinction. - Josh Civin.
Easing the Pain. - Erika Fortgang.
A Gentlemen's Game? - Emily Bazelon.
Family Feuds. - Charlotte Brooks.
The King of Chapel Street. - Cheryl Sheinkopf.
On the Road. - David Gerber.


**Title: Between the Vines: An American Outside Paris.**
**Author: Kate Brewster**
**Page number(s): 4**


**Title: Afterthought: A Union Unravels.**
**Author: Ivo Banac**
**Page number(s): 29**


**Title: True Faith.**
**Author: Josh Auerbach**
**Page number(s): 6**

Yale's new chaplain, the Reverend Frederick J. Streets, preaches a philosophy of tolerance that draws fire from campus evangelicals.


**Title: The Struggle to Respond.**
**Author: Jackie Cooperman**
**Page number(s): 8**

Will the university's sexual assault services measure up to the now-defunct Response?


**Title: A Dubious Distinction.**
**Author: Josh Civin**
**Page number(s): 11**

For centuries, Yale alumni have crowded Congress. Why have only three occupied the Oval Office?


**Title: Easing the Pain.**
**Author: Erika Fortgang**
**Page number(s): 14**

Connecticut Hospice aims to soothe the trauma of terminal illness for patients and their families.


**Title: A Gentlemen's Game?**
**Author: Emily Bazelon**
**Page number(s): 16**

Tang, Yale's traditional down-and-dirty beer fest, sloshes on.


**Title: Family Feuds.**
**Author: Charlotte Brooks**
**Page number(s): 21**

Behind New Haven's city government lie the byzantine machinations of local politicians.


**Title: The King of Chapel Street.**
**Author: Cheryl Sheinkopf**
**Page number(s): 24**

Joel Schiavone, New Haven's most flamboyant and controversial business tycoon, stands behind his vision for the Elm City.


**Title: On the Road.**
**Author: David Gerber**
**Page number(s): 26**

Students who defer a year before college often learn more in the real world than in the ivory tower.


**Title: An American Outside Paris**
**Author: Kate Brewster**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Culture shock, you hope, means stumbling off the 
plane in Paris on a freezing January night and letting the 
reality of all those movie images overwhelm 
you. In an instant, you find what lures the thousands of 
backpackers who sleep on train station floors each summer. 
Culture shock means falling in love with strangers in the 
Metro and never letting the trivial bother you, because in 
Paris even trivialities feel profound. 

In May, after four months in Paris, I was still 
waiting for culture shock. The last 
weeks of the 
semester rolled 
by and the city 
still eluded me. 
Prague's buildings, the giant angels on the roof of the Musee 
d'Orsay in Paris. But I worried (mostly in the company of 
other Americans) that I had not learned to stop seeing 
things academ1cally, that I couldn't stop reducing all but the 
most overwhelming encounters to a cool discourse on 
Culture. After a day of museums in Rome, I wrote: "Do I 
spend all my energy packing 
these things into a series of 
stereotyped cubbyholes in 
my memory?" 

When May came and 
my Eurail pass expired, I 
wanted a summer job. 
"You'll never find a job," 
said my host family's 
maid, a 
Moroccan 
woman 
who 
has 
cooked for them and 
cleaned their plush 
apartment for the last 
25 years. "Are you 
crazy? What can you 
do, 
anyway?" 
I 
winced. In spite of 
my 
triumphant 
independence, I 
felt 
useless. 
could argue with 
train conductors, find free 
toilets, and scrape by academically, serious 
about nothing except my frustrated gropings for the "real" 
Paris. But I wanted to do something: As it turned out, I 
could have herded goats in the Pyrenees, but before I got 
that offer I had accepted another from Evelyne, the ruth-
lessly cheerful matriarch of a bed and breakfast and dairy 
farm in Courtomer, Normandy, a town with fewer people 
than it has cows. 

Courtomer presented the kind of culture shock you 
might expect from joining the circus. To make ends meet, 
Evelyne had just added evening meal service to the bed and 
breakfast. Her lively two-year-old, the 40 cows, and her 
hopeless disorganization made exploiting a foreigner like 
me the only way to get through the day. I discovered within 
a couple of days that Evelyne had wildly misrepresented 
what she expected of me. In exchange for room, board, and 
$20 a week, I scrubbed toilets, pumped gas in the rain, and 
played "Happy Birthday" on the violin for guests. After a 
12-hour workday, I scrambled to help serve dinner to 14 
people, while the eight members of the household juggled 
their own meals in the kitchen. Marcel, the nutty old gar-
dener, was supposed to finish the dry bread, as Evelyne's 
husband and mother-in-law dutifully ate the leftovers of 
two-year-old Marie. Marie ate whatever she felt like, her 
sheer stage presence and sense of humor dissolving any 
attempt at order. The teenaged sons and hired help fought 
over the ketchup, teased each other, and conspired against 
Evelyne, who came back into the kitchen to stomp ruthless-
ly over the rebels and turn down the music. 

"Why do you put yourself through these things?" said a 
friend who visited me in July. "This place is hell." I thought 
of the few hours I had to myself as heaven, but when I came 
back down into the big kitchen, I felt more awake and 
engaged with the world than I have since the excitement of 
freshman year at Yale. Everyday life as a contact sport in a 
circus ring left me no time to wait around for culture shock 
the way I had in Paris. Neither did life in Courtomer leave 
time to develop "cultural understanding," that erudite state 
too many people confuse with looking for more accurate 
stereotypes. More than anything else, life with Evelyne 
demanded attention, usually in eight directions at once. 

The day her 15-year-old son chased 23 escaped cows across 
his grandmother's pasture, I tried wildly to appreciate the 
humor and French-ness of the crisis, but I had to chase cows 
too (I lost a shoe at the critical moment, and the cows 
plunged into the corn patch). Looking at postcard figures in 
Paris and running after cows in Courtomer felt as different 
from each other as listening to music and playing it. 

But six months in Europe don't undo three years at 
Yale. After months of trying to experience France on 
its own terms, I stopped fighting my own mental 
mannerisms. I would not have survived the first grueling 
month in Courtomer without Middlnmarch to retreat into, 
and Evelyne's tyranny would have driven me crazy if I 
hadn't been able to stash her away in a long series of imagi-
nary five-page papers. Chaos made the experience, but my 
own efforts to give the chaos an intellectual structure kept 
me from drowning in it. 

When Evelyne left me in charge of Marie at a family 
reunion, I tried to keep her from running all over the room 
and finally surrendered. I recorded: "I'm completely encircled 
by dancing French people in a long line holding each 
other's shoulders. Accordion music makes the whole thing 
feel like a cross between Faust and Our Town, some can 
keep a beat and some can't, smiles and hands reach down to 
us, I am sitting on the floor with Marie ... " Evelyne would 
find it hilarious that I couldn't simply remember this event, 
but also had to label it as the perfect metaphor for the 
whole summer. Whatever else Yale does to your mind, it 
teaches you to try to make sense of circuses. And a university 
education also gives you enough of a taste of what's out 
there that you can and will stumble around the world until, 
through persistence or just luck, you find it-whether you 
call it circus or culture. 

Kate Brewster, a senior in Silliman College, is on the staff of TNJ.


**Title: True Faith**
**Author: Josh Auerbach**
**Page number(s): 6**

After Harry Adams retired from his post as Yale's university chaplain last year, a special search committee sought 
to fill his shoes with a bridge builder-someone who could 
serve as a liaison between Yale and New Haven. They chose 
Rev. Frederick J. Streets (DIV '75), a pastor at an inner-city 
congregation in Bridgeport and a committed urban advocate. Streets, the first black and the first Baptist to serve as 
university chaplain, brings with him a reputation for tolerance and a commitment to the community. But his 
appointment has alienated some of Yale's most religiously 
active students. 

The controversy surrounding the new chaplain centers 
on his refusal to reject non-Christian religious beliefs. "I 
have come to understand that there is more than one way to 
God," Streets said. "The way that I have found is through 
Jesus Christ, but I would not insist to someone else that this 
is the only way." 

As university chaplain, Streets hopes to help students 
explore various paths to spiritual truth. One of his goals, he 
says, is to foster an atmosphere at Yale in which spiritual 
questions receive attention as legitimate and worthwhile 
areas of inquiry. But he emphasizes the process of inquiry 
itself, rather than the validation of any particular belief system. "I would be honored if a student were to say it was 
because of my involvement that he opened up to becoming 
a Buddhist," Streets said. 

Streets' relativistic position has alarmed members of 
Yale's evangelical community. "Most of the people I've spoken to tell me they are disappointed with him," said Sean 
Robertson (MC '94), a member of the Campus Crusade for 
Christ. According to Marena Fisher (GRD '92), a member 
of the Yale Standard Bible study group, evangelism insists 
upon the absolute and ultimate authority of Christian scriptural texts. "Streets' position is an outrage for anyone who 
has really committed himself to Christ," Fisher said. 

In light of Streets' stance toward non-Christian faiths, 
evangelical students feel that the university chaplain is 
not a true Christian. "The idea that one can say, 'Jesus 
might be Lord, but I might be wrong,' is to say that one has 
not met with the Lord," Fisher said. "Streets is either fudging his position, or he is not a believer. He is talking out of 
both sides of his mouth. If he is a Christian, he has 
betrayed his Lord with that kind of a position." 

The breadth of the theological gulf between Streets and 
Yale's evangelical students first surfaced during the chaplain 
selection process. During meetings between the university 
community and prospective candidates, students asked 
Streets to address a wide range of issues, including the 
morality of abortion and homosexuality. Associate Dean 
Judith Hackman, who co-chaired the chaplain search committee with religious studies professor Wayne Meeks, said 
that students were extremely rigorous in their questioning. 
During the meeting, Streets emphasized the good that 
can come from people with different viewpoints disagreeing 
in a spirit of "Christian love." "That's extremely important 
in an ecumenical community," said Rebecca Parkhill (DIV 
'93), who participated in the discussion. "The big point he 
tried to make was that he wanted to have an open line of 
dialogue. He's a really good listener."



**Title: The New Chaplain**
**Author: Josh Aunbach**
**Page number(s): 7**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
But Fisher remembers the interview differently. "Streets 
took a less clear stand on the issues than any of the other 
candidates," she said. "He was asked about the abortion 
issue and simply did not answer." 


Students repeatedly questioned Streets about his stance 
on homosexuality. The chaplain condemned homophobia 
and said that he would be extremely unsympathetic to any 
religious group that wanted to exclude a person from its 
membership on the basis of sexual preference. "I am glad to 
be part of a congregation that is open and affirming of peo-
ple with different sexual orientations,., he said. Many evan-
gelicals believe that Streets' tolerance of homosexuality 
directly contradicts the Bible. 


As a result of his stance toward the authority of 
Scripture, Streets' most formidable challenge may be recon-
ciling the position of university chaplain with his role as 
pastor of the United Church of Christ's Batte!! congrega-
tion. As chaplain, Streets has pledged to promote and cele-
brate 
diversity. 
Yet 
evangelicals 
argue 
that 
a 
Congregationalist pastor must advocate a particular set of 
religious beliefs. According to Reginald Roberts (TC '94), a 
member of the Black Church at Yale, Streets has so fur failed 
to explain his plan to negotiate the tensions between his two 
responsibilities. The university itself recognizes that they are 
separate and perhaps even contradictory; on Oct. 4 it broke 
with tradition and installed Streets into the two roles at sep-
arate ceremonies. 


Streets contends that his emphasis on tolerance will 
facilitate rather than hinder the reconciliation of his duties. 
"As chaplain, I am informed by my faith community, but 
my role is not to make the university-nor its students and 
faculty-
Congregationalists," he said. ''I'm there to help 
people to address the questions of faith in their lives." 


Former chaplain Adams defends Streets' position. "There is 
a great difference between affirming one's own tradition and 
denying other people's traditions," he said. Adams added 
that a chaplain who aggressively sought converts would not 
be appropriate in a university serting. 


Evangelicals label such assertions as rationalization. 
"There is a feeling of disillusionment among students with 
this mealy-mouthed approach to the chaplain's position," 
said Fisher. "If you're going to have a chaplain that is worthy 
of the name, he ought to be first and foremost committed 
to his religion. There is an earnest desire among students to 
have a chaplain who believes in something." 


The schism between Streets and the evangelical com-
munity at Yale places the chaplain in an unusual position. 
While he may be in line with the mainstream views of his 
constituency-the university as a whole--he stands at odds 
with a large proportion of those who will take the most 
OcToBER 16, 1991 
active interest in his tenure as chaplain. Streets seems ready 
to grapple with this quandary. "I will be called a heathen or 
a converted person by some in the Christian community," 
he said. "One might even say I am being hypocritical. I 
don't think so. I think I am being faithful to my under-
standing of the Gospel." 


T
he chaplain will fuce less opposition in his efforts to 
draw Yale and New Haven closer together. Streets 
bridges both worlds. While completing his studies 
at the Divinity School, he served a term on the New Haven 
Board of Aldermen. In addition, he has been the pastor of 
an inner city congregation in Bridgeport for the past 16 
years. "Over time, he has built up a network of relationships 
in the city which will be a tremendous resource to the uni-
versity," Adams said. 


Within the university, Streets will preside over ceremo-
nial functions, such as memorial services, Association of 
Yale Alumni meetings, and Fresh person Assemblies. He will 
coordinate the umbrella organization for all of Yale's 
denominational groups and will act as a counselor to mem-
bers of the university community. In addition, Streets will 
continue Adams' policy of mediating disputes between the 
university and its labor force. 


Streets' background amply qualifies him for these vari-
ous roles. He holds a master's degree in social work from 
Yeshiva University and, as pastor of Bridgeport's Mount 
Aery Baptist Church, helped establish programs to provide 
affordable housing, health care, education, and daycare to 
city residents. He also founded the first church-based AIDS 
outreach program in Fairfield County. "We were looking 
for a person who could be a moral leader within the univer-
sity and at the same time be a human being people would 
really respect," Associate Dean Hackman said. "Jerry Streets 
fulfills these expectations, and does so with great humility." 


Streets' ability to focus on a variety of activities at once 
is perhaps the greatest asset he brings to the multi-faceted 
position of university chaplain. His capacity to keep a finger 
in every pie will be severely tested in the coming years, as he 
attempts to act as a spiritual leader within the university, 
while guiding Yale into a closer relatio nship with New 
Haven. H owever, the new chaplain will likely face his 
toughest challenge from campus evangelicals. The approach 
Streets rakes to the dash between tolerance and scriptural 
authority will redefine the chaplain's role in a university that 
in recent years has come to embrace faiths beyond the 
Christian fold. 

IIIJ 
josh Aunbach is a junior in Calhoun Co/kg~. 
THE NEW JOURNAL 7 



**Title: The Struggle to Respond**
**Author: Jackie Cooperman**
**Page number(s): 8-9**

L
ast July members of Response, Yale's rape crisis hoc-
line, received a disturbing letter from their parent 
organization, Rape Crisis Services (RCS) of the 
Greater New Haven YWCA. Since 1986, state-trained stu-
dent rape crisis counselors have staffed a nightly hotline at 
Yale. But RCS director Marianne Kelly abruptly informed 
them that as of September, Response would shut its doors. 


The closing of Response has thrown the future of rape 
crisis peer counseling at Yale into doubt. Without RCS on 
board, Yale administrators may try to shift students from an 
independent hodine to university-sponsored outreach · 
efforts. And the process of reassigning Response's role has 
pushed administrators, former counselors, and students to 
examine the services that Yale provides for both prevention 
and treatment of sexual assault. 


Without Response, students who want crisis counseling 
must turn to the general RCS hotline. Student counselors 
hope to set up hours three times a week when callers can 
request a Yale counselor, but no such schedule currently 
exists. And no organization has yet taken over the sexual 
assault educational outreach that Response provided. 


"Certainly something's wrong," said Danna Schneider (BR 
'93), a member of Women Breaking the Silence, a group 
formed last year in reaction to an alleged campus date rape. 
"We need services and we need them fast." 


RCS Director Kelly gave several reasons for her decision 
to close Response. Because the organization received an 
average of only two to four calls every month, with most 
callers asking for information rather than crisis counseling, 
Kelly questioned the need for the hotline. Even for crisis 
callers, Kelly dismissed the idea that peer counselors could 
help where others could not. "When you're in crisis, all cat-
egories slip away," she said. "You don't care if you're speak-
ing with a Yale student or not." 


Kelly also expressed concern that student counselors 
worked too independently of RCS. "I felt my own ability to 
supervise the Yale counselors was unsatisfactory," she said. 
As a working mother, she often found it difficult to attend 
the evening meetings most convenient for student coordi-
nators. 


Kelly's memory of working as a student rape crisis 
counselor at the University of Connecticut in the 70s fueled 
her fear that without proper supervision, students could do 
8 THE NEw JouRNAL 
more harm than good. "I remember feeling totally over-
whelmed, like I'd been thrown to the wolves," she said. "It's 
a huge responsibility for a college person involved in a mil-
lion other things." 


Kelly's misgivings led her to worry about student dis-
cretion. Concerned that a slip-up could further traumatize 
survivors, as well as jeopardize RCS state certification, Kelly 
did not allow the Yale counselors to speak to anyone other 
than RCS supervisors about any facet of their cases. "You've 
got to be very careful," she said, "or you might make sur-
OCTOBER 16, 1992 


vivors think that they can't come to you or trust a coun-
selor's confidentiality." 


Bound by RCS's strict confidentiality policy, Response 
never issued public statements, either about individual cases 
of alleged sexual assault or about general patterns of behav-
ior. Response gave priority to providing help for individual 
survivors and their loved ones and spent less time on 
activism. The organization limited its outreach efforts to an 
annual Rape Awareness Week in April and periodic table-
tents. 


Response's refusal to divulge information brought it 
into conflict with the Yale administration. Because they had 
no authority over student counselors' decisions, Yale admin-
istrators viewed the group with apprehension. "Response 
got little support from Dean Trachtenberg," said Norman 
Kim (TD '93), a former Response member and current 
Walden counselor. 


While they valued counselors' commitment to keeping 
their cases secret, administrators objected to Response's 
insjstence on withholding basic facts. Despite adminstra-
tors' promises to protect survivors' identities, Response 
counselors refused to speak with Yale officials about their 
cases, and the administration claimed that the group's confi-
dentiality policy prevented the university from aiding sur-
vivors, either by providing counseling or taking legal action. 


"We can't act on hearsay," said Betty Trachtenberg, Yale's 
Dean of Student Affairs. "We need people to come forward. 
How can we be responsive if we don't jcnow what's going 
onr 

~ 

he present dearth of sexual assault services on cam-
pus does not reflect Yale's past record. In 1986, Yale 
became one of the original members of the 
Connecticut Consortium for the Prevention of Sexual 
Assault on University Campuses, founded by former RCS 
director Barbara Moynihan. The Consortium, which RCS 
operated from its New Haven office, quickly expanded to 
include most colleges in Connecticut. Then-Associate Dean 
Patricia Pierce became one of the most active college repre-
sentatives in the Consortium, and spent about 20 percent of 
her time working on issues of sexual assault. 


However, because of budget cuts the university chose to 
eliminate Pierce's position as Dean of Academic Life. Dean 
Trachtenberg, whose job already included student affairs 
and freshman life, inherited Pierce's responsibilities. "It was 
really a big job to add on to Dean Trachtenberg's existing 
duties," said Pierce, now Dean of Student Affairs at the 
School of Management. 


At some universities, health service staff guide effons to 
address sexual assault as well as care for survivors. Wesleyan's 
health service employs a medical educator who creates pro-
OcToa£Jt 16, 1992 
grams for sexual assault prevention, substance abuse, and 
eating disorders. "One of my first efforts was to create a 
campus-wide coalition on sexual assault," said Carol Grant, 
Wesleyan's director of Health Education. Grant brought 
members of the faculty and administration into a campus 
coalition on sexual assault and helped form two student 
groups: one to hold informational talks at residence halls, 
and another to prepare resident advisors to deal with date 
rape. 


Yale's University Health Services (UHS) has no compa-
rable position. Joan Wexler, a social worker on the UHS 
staff, spoke with this year's freshperson counselors about 
The closing of Response has thrown 
the foture of rape crisis peer 
counseling at Yale into doubt. 
how to discuss sexual assault with first-year students. 


Several counselors expressed dissatisfaction with Wexler's 
talk, saying she gave the wrong legal definition of rape, 
neglected to mention basic procedures that survivors who 
want to prosecute must follow, and gave scant attention to 
date rape. "Overall, the freshperson counselor preparation 
was very good," said freshperson counselor Karen Alexander 
(BK '93). "But the sexual assault talk was the weakest part." 


RCS has also reduced its support of campus services. As 
director, Moynihan helped two Yale students found 
Response. "When I left RCS, things with Response were in 
place," she said. But when Kelly replaced Moynihan in 
1989, she lost the help of an RCS staff member who had 
previously stayed in touch with the campus. 


In hindsight, Yale officials question the wisdom of 
Response's past connection to RCS. "Many of Kelly's con-
cerns were always present," said Dean Pierce. "It may have 
been a mistake for students to affiliate themselves with an 
outside group." Because Response counselors answered only 
to supervisors at RCS, Yale officials remained outside the 
loop and lost the opportunity to work with students on sex-
ual assault prevention. 


Without an RCS liaison or specific staff member from 
UHS's Mental Hygiene department to spearhead the effort, 
Yale has not yet charted a course for the future of sexual 
assault services. "We're trying to figure out how concerns 
can be dealt with," Wexler said. "We have no conclusions 
yet." Dean Trachtenberg and Lorraine Siggins, chief psychi-
atrist at UHS, have called for the formation of a committee 
to establish a new peer counseling group, but have not yet 
defined the way in which they want the group to function. 

TH.E Nsw JouRNAL 9 



**Title: A Dubious Distinction**
**Author: Josh Civin**
**Page number(s): 11-12**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
For the first time in United States history, two Yale University alumni face each other in a battle for the presidency. The election is not only a contest of Republican versus Democrat, but also of Old versus New Blue. While incumbent George Bush (DC '47) will try to break the curse of single-term Yale alum presidencies, Governor Bill Clinton (LAW '73) hopes to introduce a completely new concept to the Oval Office: a Democratic President from Yale. The outcome of the contest will either preserve or destroy the small and exclusive club of presidential Yalies with traditionalist Republican leanings, short terms in office, and monosyllabic names like Taft, Bush, and Ford. 


Weighing a portly 225 pounds, William Howard "Big Bill" Taft graduated in 1878. At that time, Yale offered only required courses like Latin and Euclidian geometry. "A few ancient things were studied intensively under tutors," wrote historian George Pierson, "while many modern things were examined briefly and rather superficially under the professors." 

Yale permeated Taft's life. He had a family well-stocked with alumni, and after his own graduation he went on to serve as a Yale Corporation member and Kent Professor of Law. Whatever his country might have thought of him, Taft could take comfort in the fact that Yale and its alums considered him the university's finest product. "He was immensely popular with his own class and by the time he was a senior, he was the best known and most admired man at Yale," wrote historian David H. Burton. "To know him was to believe in him." Members of Taft's class even argued about who first gave him political backing. 

Taft was more an amiable Bonesman and man-about-campus than an intense intellectual. Although he earned salutatorian honors upon graduation, the future president viewed his school exercises as obstacles to overcome. "Taft stood high," wrote classmate Herbert W Bowen, "but that was because he was a plodder-not because he was bright." 

In all his pursuits, Taft felt pressure from his overbearing father, who filled his son's college days with the anxiety of inadequacy. "You expect great things of me," Taft once wrote to his father. "You mustn't be disappointed if I don't come up to your expectations." At times his frustration exploded into violence. One evening two classmates visited Taft, who asked them to leave him alone to study. When they refused to go, he became dangerously angry and flung books and other objects at the fleeing men. Nevertheless, Taft's diligence inspired classmates, who admired the moral example he set by avoiding liquor, tobacco, and most rowdy social events. 

Upon graduation, Taft entered the Cincinnati bar, obediently following the path prescribed by his father. His prominent family and Ivy League background ensured a steady progression of political appointments. In a few years he rose from assistant prosecuting attorney in Cincinnati to become the first American Governor General of the Philippines. His energy and zeal caught the eye of President Theodore Roosevelt, who designated Taft as his preferred successor. 

But Taft never wanted the presidency. His was a judicial rather than a political temperament. As in his coursework, Taft viewed each political appointment as another obstacle to the Supreme Court. "I would much prefer to go on the Supreme Bench for life than to run for the presidency," he lamented. "In 20 years of judicial service I could make myself more useful to the country than as president." 

Although Taft eventually reached his goal, he first blundered through a frustrating term in the Oval Office. "Taft had the ill fortune to be a conservative at a time when the country was consumed by progressivism," said history professor emeritus John Morton Blum. "He was not a mediocre man, merely a mediocre president." Taft's privileged upbringing did not prepare him to tinker with the status quo or accept reforms. Comfortable with a hands-off presidential role, he shied away from the strong executive style of his predecessor Roosevelt. Congress rather than Taft initiated the notable legislation of his Presidential term. 

George "Poppy" Bush came to Yale from patrician Old Blue roots similar to Taft's. Yale counted Bush's great-grandfather, father, and several other relatives among its graduates. The future president deviated only slightly from his family's scholastic path. Instead of heading directly to Yale from Andover, Bush enlisted in the Navy in 1942. When he finally reached Yale after the war, Bush found its sport jacket and grey-flannel conservatism to his liking. He attended a university that had evolved remarkably little since the days of "Big Bill" Taft. 

But a few things had changed. Five thousand servicemen entered the university in 1945-the largest class in Yale history. Bush participated in a special program for ex-Gis, completing his course of study in two and a half years. Like the rest of the former soldiers, he was obsessed with doing well, getting ahead, and making up for lost time. Bush concentrated less on intellectual inquiry than on the codified "vision-free Yale experience." 

"Poppy," with his Skull and Bones and varsity baseball credentials, exuded the same charismatic confidence as Taft. "He was one of those fellows who was sort of a golden boy. Everything he did, he did well," noted classmate Senator John Chafee (R-RI). "I guess my first impression of him was that he was in the inner set, one of the movers and shakers." But in his classes at Yale, Bush never demonstrated unusual initiative. 

"Bush took the curriculum that was there," Smith commented. "There was no quest for an overriding sense of purpose." In contrast to other Presidential alumni, however, Bush appeared to have set his sights on the Oval Office. 

Gerald Ford (LAW '41) had to beg his way into Yale. A star football player at the University of Michigan, the future


**Title:  Untitled**
**Author: Jackie Cooperman**
**Page number(s): 10**

"I really don't have any particular agenda in mind," Siggins said. 

"Obviously we want to get started as soon as possible, but there are issues of organization and training and people getting to know one another." 

Dean Trachtenberg wants the new group to shift from an exclusive focus on peer counseling to include educational outreach, moving more of the task of providing care to UHS. The dean hopes that student ideas will further shape the new group. "I want to open this committee up to the community," she said. 

Yet the Dean's office has put out little publicity about a steering committee for the new peer counseling group, and students remain skeptical about the administration's attempts to replace Response. "I think the committee is a step in the right direction," said Schneider. "But I am a little wary that setting up the committee is just another way of avoiding the real issue--which is that rape is becoming a bigger problem on campus." 

For students, the current confusion raises questions about Yale's commitment. "I think that generally Yale doesn't see sexual assault as a serious problem," said former Response counselor Kim. 

Yale's existing services do not seem to inspire student confidence. Last year, no undergraduate pursued a case before the Sexual Assault Grievance Board. And Mental Hygiene is a common target of student complaints. To supplement Mental Hygiene care, students express hope that the peer counseling aspect of Response will be resurrected. "While UHS is equipped to deal with sexual assault, one of the purposes of peer counseling is that you're talking to a peer, not a professional," Kim said. "That can be very therapeutic." 

But with ties between RCS and Yale severed, Kelly will no longer permit students to train at RCS and counsel at Yale. She instead envisions a relationship with Yale like the one RCS has with other area campuses, where it trains resident advisers, speaks in classes and dormitories, and meets with administrators. "We will come to Yale," she said, "if Yale wants us." 

Students also suggest new directions for the educational efforts of the future group. "I'd like to see a lot more outreach to men," said Alexander. Wesleyan has tried men's outreach through a pamphlet entitled ''Aquaintance Rape: The Facts. Not for Women Only," written by a former undergraduate. Currently, Yale provides no such literature to its students. 

But the present lack of action on issues of sexual assault at Yale may soon end. While many students criticize the Administration's past record, they also recognize the new group as a positive development. "I think it's too bad there's a gap right now," said one former Response counselor. "But I can see Trachtenberg's group being successful, certainly in terms of providing education to the campus." 

Student opinions hinge on the question of when and how the new collaboration between students, administration, and UHS will take shape. If university officials want student counselors to channel survivors to Mental Hygiene, UHS must ensure that it can provide competent and timely care. 

While most students support the administration's concept for future services, they wonder how it will operate in practice, and fear the void that exists in the meantime. "I am really confident that Dean Trachtenberg is sincere in doing what's best for the students," said fresh person counselor Alexander. "But it will take a long time for Yale to do a responsible job--and I don't know if Yale can afford that time." 

Jackie Cooperman is a sophomore in Saybrook College. 
OCTOBER 16, 1992.


l Orient is only minutes away at the 
j 
i 
Korean & Japanese Cuisine i 
j <!Jrz.ienta.f'·~·rPantrz.y 
l 
! 
The Finest Oriental 
Buy One Entree, · 
Groceries in New Haven 
Get One Free! 
J China, Korea, Japan, India, Indonesia, 
With this Coupon 
i Thailand, Middle East, Fresh Produce, 
Second entree of equal or lesser value 
! Specialties, Cookbooks, Gifts, Utensils, 
expim 11/16/92 
Lunch, Video 
i374 Whitney Avenue, New Haven 
93 Whitney Ave. at Trumbull St. 
865-2849 
624-0311 


Dress Globally 
You are invited to 
• . 
visit our new 
~a~ 
0 
' 
,
, __ • . .. 
: 
location: 
.1 
-...:::;; 
2100 Dix well Avenue, Hamden 
230-0039 
•Natural fiber clothing for women size XS-3 plus • 
Pottery • Wooden Toys• Crabtree and Evefyn 
Toiletnes • A beautiful selection of handmade 
sterling & gemstone rings, bracelets and earrings 
•Presents for children of all ages! 
11th Birthday Sale October 21st-28th 
Open 7 days 
25% Off Storewide 


l R A FA L I S E 
jfied the "vision-free Yale experience." 
" Poppy," with his Skull and 
A 
!Bones and varsity baseball credentials, 
!exuded the same charismatic confi-
c 0 m p I e t e 
!dence as Taft. "He was one of those 
h 
· 
!fellows who was sort of a golden boy. 
a I r 
S a 
0 n 
jEverything he did, he did well," noted 
!classmate Senator John C hafee (R-
C a r j n g 
lRl). "I guess my first impression of 
P e 
0 P 1 e 
ihim was that he was in the inner set, 
!one of the movers and shakers." But 
lin his classes at Yale, Bush never 
f r i e n d I y 
!demonstrated unusual initiative. 
t m 
p h e r e 
!"Bush took the curriculum that was 
a 
0 S 
!there," Smith commented. "There 
iwas no quest for an overriding sense 
2 Q % 
O f f 
iof purpose." In contrast to other 
h a i r c u t s 
!Presidential alumni, however, Bush 
!appeared to have set his sights on the 
with select stylists for first time customers 
!Oval Office. 
9 Whitney Avenue 
!G
erald Ford(LAW '41) had to 
New Haven 
beg his way into Yale. A star 
498-8271 



**Three Yale Presidents**
**Author: Josh Civin**
**Page number(s): 13**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
presidenr dreamed of going on to law 
school. Yet his lack of funds forced 
him to rake a coaching job at Yale 
College rather than enrolling in the 
university. Yale's deans, who did not 
want to burden Ford with the dual 
responsibilities of coaching and study-
ing, refused to allow him to enter law 
school. After several 
seasons of coach-
ing, Ford con-
vinced them 
to relent. In a 
class that 
included 
Potter Stewart, 
Byron Whi re, 
Sargent Shriver, 
andCyrus 
Vance, Ford per-
forma:! solidly. 
The future president's resilient 
determination to get through law 
school characterized his future politi-
cal 
career. 
He won 
his 
first 
Congressional race with resourceful 
perseverance, campaigning from one 
farm in Michigan co the next. Once in 
Congress, Ford progressed chrougiJ 
che leadership ranks as easily as Taft 
and Bush had climbed the govern-
ment ladder. 

Still, Ford seldom demonstrated 
much imagination. "Although I 
believe that Ford is underestimated, I 
also think chat he was just an able guy 
who didn't want to gee beyond a cer-
tain level," said Yale Law School Dean 
Guido Calabresi. "He was just com-
fortable not being out on a limb too 
much." 

Professor Smith agreed. "Ford was 
che center on the football team, not 
the quarterback," he said. "The center 
helps carry che line through. Ford 
could work with people of a broad 
range of views to generate consensus, 
bur he was noc the executive leader 
type." No one, especially Ford him-
self, ever considered him presidential 
material. 

Unlike Bush and Taft, Ford was a 
OcroeeR 16, 199:1. 
self-made man who originally had no 
elite family connections to ensure his 
success. Yec no matter what road these 
three men took co prominence, they 
all rode into the Oval Office on the 
coattails of predecessors who were 
impressed by their steady and work-
manlike dependability. Taft, a loyal 
'trouble-shooter under Roosevelt, 
attracted that presidenr's eye and later 
his endorsement. George Bush wooed 
moderates to the Reagan ticket while 
tailoring his policical views to those of 
his running mate. And Ford joined 
Nixon to shore up his floundering 
administration at a time when 
Watergate threatened the president's 
future. 

Political science professor Sceve 
Skowroneck suggests that the same 
men who brought these Yale alums to 
power doomed them. Roosevelt, dis-
gusted by Taft's inertia, ran against 
him on the Bull Moose ticket in 1912. 
Ronald Reagan's fatherly persona and 
immense popularity boosted Bush 
into office, but the vice-president 
never attracted a similar following. 
And tainted memories of Nixon 
haunted Ford from the time he par-
doned the ex-leader until Jimmy 
Carter defeated him in 1976. 

No matter what the result, Nov. 3 
promises to change che history ofYale 
presidencies. If George Bush wins the 
election, he will become the first ever 
Yale president to capture a second 
term in office. And if Bill Clinton suc-
ceeds in his bid for the presidency, he 
will be the first alumnus of the post-
1960 "New Blue" university to occu-
py the Oval Office. Wichouc the shad-
ow of a strong president to hang over 
him, Yale's first Democratic president 
could break with several of the less 
illustrious precedents set by Taft, 
Bush, and Ford. 

**Easing the Pain**
**Author: Erika Fortgang**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

W:
en Anne Graham was dying of cancer, she didn't 
want to burden her family and friends with the 
onstant care that she required. Her doctor told 
her about Connecticut Hospice, a program that provides ser-
vices for the terminally ill. Graham thought the idea verged 
on the morbid. "Some people are just attracted to tragedy," 
she said. But when she called a volunteer, she found that the 
woman had once been ill herself and had hated being depen-
dent on others. The woman brought Graham medications 
and did errands, freeing Graham's family to spend more time 
with her. 

Over the years, thousands of people have turned to 
Connecticut Hospice. Founded in 1974, the non-profit orga-
nization specializes in anticipating and treating the needs of 
the terminally ill. While its focus appears unconventional to 
some, Hospice staff and volunteers believe that dying people 
and their families have unique needs that merit special care. 

Community leaders, hospital administrators, and 
physicians throughout the state praise Connecticut 
Hospice for not only providing superior medical care, but 
also for coordinating the services of physicians, nurses, 
volunteers, and agencies such as AIDS Project Mew Haven 
and the State Welfare Department. The organization pro-
vides home care to over 1 ,000 patients each year, regard-
less of their ability to pay, and operates a 52-bed hospital 
in Branford. Connecticut Hospice, ranked among the top 
five percent of health care providers in the United States, 
has become a leader in the movement to personalize 
health care, matching advanced medical techniques with 
individual attention. "Hospitals would be well-advised to 
study the pain control methods used by Hospice," said Dr. 
Robert H. Gifford, Associat~ Dean at the Yale School of 
Medicine. 

Connecticut Hospice specializes in palliative care-
Hospiu "cmtly hono"d U.S. Rep. Rosa DeLauro for her support on health care issues. From left: U.S. 
Sm. Jay Rockefeller (D-WV), Hospice President Rosemary johnson-Hurzeler, DeLauro. 
symptom manage-
ment and the alle-
viation of pain. 
Patients who have 
more 
than 
six 
months to live, or 
who want to seek 
curative treatment, 
are not eligible for 
the program. "I 
understand why 
Hospice has to 
limit their ser-
vices," said Dr. 
Margaret 
Drickamer, 
Associate Chief of 
Staff for Geriatrics 
and Extended Care 
at the West Haven 
Veteran's 
Administrat ion 
Hospital. "If they 
tried to do all sorts 
of other care as 
well, they would use 
up their resources 
on ten patients." 


Hospic~ volunu~r joan Robbins h~lps a home care patient cut rous in his garden. 
said Peter Kuritt, Director of 
Pastoral Care. After careful 
screening by Hospice, volun-
teers enter a seven-week ori-
entation program in which 
they learn about bathing, 
feeding, and dental hygiene 
in order to assist the home-
care nurses. "I've done every-
thing from taking people on 
walks to making soup," said 
volunteer William Farrell, 
New Haven's retired chief of 
police. 

Patients turn to Hospice when they have exhausted possi-
bilities for a cure. "A lot of times the patient tells you that they 
don't want any more high-power invasive procedures," said 
Dr. Fitzhugh Pannill, assistant professor at the Yale School of 
Medicine. Hospitals, concerned with fighting disease, often 
make pain management and family input lower priorities. 
Hospice tries to offer an alternative tailored to the desires of 
the patient. 

Palliative care, however, has met with criticism from med-
ical professionals, who feel that Hospice over-prescribes nar-
cotics. Hospice workers argue that if a patient is at the last 
stage of a disease, fear of addiction has less relevance. The 
organization's pharmacists specialize in preparing medications 
to maintain a high level of alertness in the patient. "Our goal 
is to improve life in the short term," said Dr. Fred Flatow, a 
Hospice physician. Hospice has received hundreds of letters 
from grateful families, who say that the expert alleviation of 
pain gave them important moments with their ill relatives. 

H
ospice patients stay at home with their families, while 
doctors, nurses, social workers, and volunteers help 
the household to anticipate the needs of the patient. 
"Every week there's something new that's lost, like her being 
able to hold a coffee cup by herself," said the husband of one 
Hospice patient. "It makes you wonder what's going to hap-
pen next." After a patient dies, Hospice stays in contact with 
his or her family for at least a year. "The emotional support 
that the families receive is enormously effective for the sur-
vivors," said Rosemary Johnson-Hunder, CEO and President 
of Connecticut Hospice. "They can get back to life and pick 
up the pieces." 

Connecticut Hospice relies heavily upon 400 trained vol-
unteers, 50 of whom work in the greater New Haven area. 
Although the program offers spiritual support through a net-
work of clergy, Connecticut Hospice has no religious affilia-
tion. "Proselytizers are gently dissuaded from volunteering," 
OCTOBER 16, 1991 
Hospice has also created 
a network of artists and writers who encourage self-expression 
and creativity in patients. A metalsmith helped a die cutter 
craft two swan pendants for his daughters. Yale writing 
instructor Donald Faulkner, a former Hospice staff member, 
engaged patients with srories and poems. "I have come to rec-
ognize the value of the story that each individual has to tell, 
and of the deep value of memory as a cohesive process that 
lends. itself to the transcendence of pain," he wrote in 
C"ativity and th~ Clcs~ of Life, a Hospice publication. 

Hospice concerns itself with the needs of the individual, 
rather than the disease to resist a 'professionalization' of death. 
"In a situation like Hospice's, where staff interactions are so 
tightly-knit and family input is actively sought, patients receive 
better care," said Lynn Hallarman, a student at the Yale School 
of Medicine who spent a rotation at the in-patient facility in 
Branford. The hospital assigns each nurse to only three patients 
so that he or she can provide emotional support as well as med-
ical care. "You have to be ready to do this kind of nursing," said 
Kathy Miller, Head Nurse at the in-patient facility. "However, 
the nurses here really support each other. The high ratio of 
nurses to patients makes the work very satisfying." 

Through its network of support services, Hospice offers a 
unique, inclusive approach to health care. Dr. Gifford believes 
that families have popularized the program because it fills a gap 
within health care and community service. "Hospice wouldn't 
exist," he said, "if families didn't want it." 

Patients claim that Hospice helps them to maintain their 
dignity. "Before they come, most people consider the Hospice 
facility as a waiting room for death. I know I did," said a cur-
rent patient. "That is not its primary function. Hospice has 
made me stronger, taken away my pain, and helped me make 
my own decisions." 

Ill) 
Ann~ Graham is a psrodonym. 
Erika Fortgang is a senior in Branford College. 



**Title: A Gentlemen's Game?**
**Author: Emily Bazelon**
**Page number(s): 16-17**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
A Gentlemen's Game? 
Emily Bazelon 
( ( y
ak's tru~ task is to uach its mm to drink, "tkc/am 
an associau proftssor and Tangjudg~ m 1952. 
With a chur from th~ crowd, h~ points a gun to th~ 
sky. "Lath~ raa b~gin. " 
When Tang drinkers kneel at the table in the backyard 
of the Delta Kappa Epsilon (DKE) fraternity, they become 
part of a Yale tradition that refuses to die. Yale's campus 
today bears little resemblance to the all-male bastion of old-
time prep schoolers who created the drinking competition. 
But to the delight of some of today's (supposedly) more 
sophisticated students, Tang sloshes on. 
According to myth, Air Force soldiers in T imothy 
Dwight and Silliman Colleges began the drinking duel in 
1940. The first record ofTang dates from 1951, when 10 
men from the TO "Prexies" and the Silliman "'Manders" 
downed 40 glasses of beer in two rounds and attracted over-
flow crowds to the back of one of their college courtyards 
during Derby Day, then Yale's annual end-of-the-year 
extravaganza. The competition has since developed a 
detailed set of rules, expanded to include all the residential 
colleges, survived a university ban by moving from Cross 
Campus to DKE, and adjusted to coeducation by including 
women in 1988. 
What began as a lark turned first into a popular event 
on Cross Campus and then into Yale's biggest frat party, fea-
turing die-hard competition and live entertainment. 
Scheduled for the first Saturday of reading period, Tang 
absorbs the wave of spring fever that hits the campus as 
classes end. DKE claims that between 20 and 25 percent of 
Yale undergraduates show up during the day to drink about 
85 kegs of Milwaukee's best. 
The crowds also come to cut loose. "People here are so 
uptight and wound up, they forget how to have fun," said 
Gretchen O'Neal OE '94). "If drinking is the only way to 
break down those barriers, then maybe we should do it 
more often." 
~calr and riffi from th~ B~av~r Brown Band b/ar~ from th~ 
cmur of Cross Campus in 1980. Hands cupp~d around thrir 
g/asus, th~ uams ry~ ~ach othn- across a low tabk, 10 on ~ach 
sitk. As th~ first drinltn-s bang th~ir glasm down on th~ tabk, 
th~ no:t compnitors tilt th~ir h~ads back and pour b~n- down 
th~ir throats. 


In the 70s, Tang's popularity led the university's Social 
Activities Committee (SAC) to sponsor pre-race practices. 
The competition expanded to include t~ams from all the 
residential colleges and moved to Yale's most spacious and 
central location: Cross Campus. In those glory days, Tang 
featured live bands, 100 kegs of free beer from the Miller 
Brewing Company, and the tacit support of the administra-
tion. 

But in 1983, the Connecticut legislature raised the 
F~ak Tang~rs thr~aten to dult~ it out ovn- a dispuud call. 
drinking age from 19 to 20, and President A. Bartlett 
Giamatti pressed the Council of Masters to cut the tap. 
When the council prohibited the use of SAC funds and 
banned the race ftom the Yale campus, Tang's future seemed 
doomed. 

DKE, then Yale's only fraternity, stepped into the 
breach. Tang moved off-campus to the frat house, where it . 
has remained in residence ever since. Team members chip in 
$10 each to cover the cost of practice beer, but DKE pays 
for the parry and runs the show. "It's a lot of work, but we 

--- Page 17 ---

like doing ic," said Dave Holland (ES '93), who managed 
the evem lase year. DKE has made Tang the centerpiece of 
Wooly Goat Weekend, which also includes keg suck, an 
endless round of pre and aft:er parties, and, of course, a live 
goat. 

t-shirts, climb onto th~ stag~ ut up in DKE's backyard. As th~ 
womm brau th~mulvu at th~ tabk, a judg~ bangs a pitch~r 
onto th~ tabk and bur skJsh~s onto th~ir cwth~s. Instant w~t t-
shirt conust. 

Some students look back wistfully to the days when 
In 1988, DKE nodded to equal opportunity and added 
Miller kegs got delivered to the center of campus. "I chink 
a women's competition. "We started women's Tang to be 
it's coo bad chat Tang's held at DKE," said team captain 
the P.C. DKE that everyone knows and loves," said Jim 
Gretchen Stockmayer (SM '93). "I know that there's no 
Langford (BR '94). In the past four years, the number of 
way, with laws and image the way they are, chat the univer-
sity could allow it to happen on Cross Campus. But it 
would be nicer. We wouldn't have to kneel in sloppy beer 
mud." 

Today's administrators have no plans to lift the ban 
imposed by Giamatti. Indeed, the very thought of the evem 
makes them bristle. "I think chat Tang is disgusting," said 
Betty Trachtenberg, Yale's Dean of Studem Affairs. 

Two uams, on~ dr~sud in 1 990s ti~-dy~. th~ othrr in Napl~s 
0croBER 16, 1991 
l colleges with women's teams has gone from six to eleven. 

~ Women who Tang say they draw strength from team 
~ togetherness. "A big part of it, for me," said Stockmayer, "is 
~ the female bonding." 

~ 
Women competitors see themselves as pioneers pushing 
] the boundaries of traditional gender roles. "The idea chat 
~ Tang is a place where women don't belong pisses me off 
'G and makes me wane to get in there," said Stockmayer. "I 
] have the same right co do a stupid thing that I think is 
u fun." 

>.. 


But some male Tangers chink chat the women are fool-
{ ing themselves. "Women's Tang started to make things 
equal, and because there were some good women drinkers, 
but it's not the same serious tradition," said Adam Shaw 
(MC '93). He believes chat most men watch the women 
for the spectacle, not their drinking prowess. "Guys are 
more of the audience, and they won't remember which 
women's team won. People are imo women's Tang more for 
the entertainment chan the competition." 

Th~ nat uams turn from th~ tabk to [au th~ crowd. To th~ 
tun~ of "Tak~ M~ to th~ Piau I Lov~. ,. thry wiggk out of 
th~ir 
rob~s and stand in th~tr und~rw~ar, rro~a/ing broad baclts 
tatoo~d with th~ir co/kg~ logos. "Niu butt, • y~tis a fan. 

Tang teams have always looked for clever ways to strut 
their scuff. Once in the days of old, TO entered on the 
shoulders of toga-dad freshmen, while "slave girls" fed them 
grapes and trumpets heralded the entrance of the caravan. 
Not co be outdone, Silliman sec up an outhouse over a man-
hole in their college courtyard. Team members dressed in 
black tie climbed up from the manhole and exited one by 
one from che outhouse onto the field as an emcee 
announced their names over a loudspeaker. 

In the '80s, some men's and women's teams started to 
use body paint, team uniforms, and 
strip teases to add to their allure. 


When watching the race becomes 
tedious, the crowd can ogle the team 
with the craziest style. "I guess the 
actual competition isn't that interest-
ing," said Raoul Bustillo QE '93). 

All the hoopla has an added bene-
fit: in the women's competition, what 
you don't wear can help your score. 
"Sometimes the judges start the watch-
es later because a team wears risque 
outfits or is good-looking," said one 
female Tanger, who declined to be 
identified. "The whole reason we took 
off our shirts was that we thought we'd 
get points for it," said another woman. 
"The DKE brothers were telling us 
that the more clothes we took off, the 
better we'd do." 

Hollarid dismisses the accusation 
that judges favor women in bras. "A 
judge would never tell someone to 
· take their clothes off," he said. "That's 
just some DKE brother joking who 
people took too seriously." 

Not everyone buys DKE reassur-
ances. "With the women, of course the 
hotter team might have the edge." said 
Shaw. "What do you expect? They're 
frat boys." 

For some women, the attitude of 
some judges and spectators comes as 
an unexpected blow. "Regardless of 
how good our team felt going into it, 
when we got there we were hit with 
th is attitude of men gawking at 
women, and it's not right," said 
O'Neal. "It's almost like the team with 
the biggest set has the advantage." 

In the playoffi, the bleary-eyed competi-
tors hoist themselves onto the stage with 
difficulty. Two drinkers fail to finish 
their glasses to the last drop, and two 
more spill beer Mwn their chins. A judge 
who wears a wet suit comes over to make 
a penalty call When he adds the one and 
two second penalties onto the drinking 
times, the judge declares the team that 
apparently finished last the winner. A 
shouting match follows, full pitchers fly, 


--- Page 18 ---

**Title: Tang**
**Author: Emily Bazelon**
**Page number(s): 19-20**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
and th~ w~t suit 
com~s in handy. 

In 1962, the 
TO team created a 
set of rules for Tang • 
in 
reaction 
to 
Silliman's sloppy 
performance the 
year before. The 
captains agreed on 
penalties for minor 
and gross spills, 
leaving beer in the 
glass, and false 
starts. "We're tired 
of seeing them toss 
beer 
over their 
shoulders," 
said 
captain Pete Gale 
(TO '62). "What 
we're interested in 
is a test of skill and 
a gentlemen's game, 
and this year we've -......-. 
got some rules to


~ 
;§ 
~ to get to know if I 
~ hadn't joined the 
f.,:; team," 
l Jennifer Groeber 
~ (DC '93) 
As the big 
i day draws near, 
C>. 
• 
h 
practtce eats up, 
make sure it stays "Timothy Dwight .Praies outguzzk SiUiman 'Mandns"-Yak Daily Nnus, 1952. 
and some teams 
meet four or five 
times during the 
last week, no holds 
barred. "In Morse, 
12 
guys 
go 
through a keg in 
an hour," said 
team 
captain 
Shaw. 
"Usually 
guys throw up two 
or three times in 
that many hours. 
We're famous for 
what we call the 
'booting window' 
in the basement 
room that we use 
that way." 

Today the same rules apply, with a 
few refinements: a standard measur~ 
for the amount of beer left undrunk 
(the bottle cap) and a five-second 
penalty for cheating. Complaints 
about fairness and foul play still 
abound. According to DKE brothers, 
Tang judges make some of the tough-
est umpire calls outside of professional 
sports and must be well-seasoned to 
stay on top of the job. "We train a 
couple of young brothers each year, so 
there are always people with experi-
ence at the table," said Holland. 

Tang organizers chalk up most of 
the accusations about unfair calls to 
the special mixture of victory-driven 
and beer-befuddled competitors that 
the event produces. "When people 
have been drinking all day and practic-
ing all year, they're going to be frus-
trated and mad if they lose," Holland 
said. 

For th~ finals, two luclty uams knul in 
OCTOBER 16, 1992 
th~ bur-slop mud cr~aud by spi//~d 
pitch~rs and many pairs offut. Thq 
paus~ to m~ditau: a ritual sanctifi~d by 
a y~ar's worth of practiu. Th~ mommt 
com~s to an ~nd wh~n on~ m~mb~r 
slumps ov" and almost falls off th~ tabk. 

Some Tang teams tap their first keg 
in the initial weeks of the school year. In 
most colleges, practice sessions often turn 
into parties. Regulars see Tang as the 
excuse that students need to let go. "It's 
hard for Yale students just to be social 
sometimes," said O'Neal. "Tang practice 
is an organized framework, so people fed 
better about spending time on it." 

Many Tangers point to the social 
benefits of hanging out with fellow ream-
members-people they might not other-
wise have known. Frosh meet older stu-
dents and different parts of the college 
community come together, all in the 
name of Tang. "The best thing about 
Tang was that I met a group of senior 
women who I wouldn't have had a way 


to practice in." 

Tang captains claim that team 
members who drink themselves into 
oblivion do so of their own free will. 
"If there's peer pressure, it's because 
you feel you're part of something and 
everyone's there and you want to do 
your best," said Stockmayer. At some 
practices, members who dorrt w'ant to 
drink chug water instead of beer. And 
a high level of alcohol consumption 
doesn't 
promise 
victory. 
The 
Davenport women, last year's winners, 
practiced with water and didn't start 
meeting until the last two weeks of 
classes. 

At practice, veterans coach bud-
ding young talent in the technique of 
the open throat that is key to speed 
drinking. "Chugging beer is really a 
mental thing," said Holland. "You 
have to force your body to do some-
thing it's not supposed to." 

To conquer the gag reflex, individ-
uals lean on the support of the group. 
"Tang is more than drinking, it's deep 
bonding," said Shaw. "It's important 
to get together a bunch of guys who 
care. " 

Rumors fly about teams who 
bond by mixing their beer with each 
other's bodily fluids. Even if such tales 
are exaggerated, most competitors 
make Tang practice a priority. "People 
must be taking Tang pretty seriously," 
said Darren Grow OE '93), "if all year 
they're saying 'No, I can't do my 
homework tonight, I have to get shit-
faced."' 

More and more students crowd into the 
yard to watch the final rounds. The frat 
house and port-a-potties can't absorb the 
rush for toilets, and when the urge hits, 
some stutknts stumble into the comer of 
the yard. Their work done, they zip their 
flies or wipe their mouths and go back 
for another beer. A cop car slows down as 
it approaches the house, and then drives 
on. 

The Yale and New Haven police 
handle Tang like other frat events: 
with caution. Yet they have never bro-
ken up Tang by enforcing underage 
drinking laws. DKE brothers say that 
for the last few years they have 
received threats from the police about 
Tang weekend. But most of the ten-
sion arises over keg suck, which takes 
place at a secret location at the intra-
mural playing fields each year, rather 
than Tang. The DKE house seems to 
lie outside the boundaries of police 
action. "I think the police mostly play 
it by ear," said Bustillo. "They keep an 
eye on us, but they tend to assume that 
Yale students are responsible drinkers. 
I think it's true of drinking in general 
here that there's a lot of trust on the 
part of the police." 

To DKE brothers, the lack of 
interference on the part of Yale's 
administration and police is welcome, 
if puzzling. Although Tang takes place 
off-campus, the university could still 
step in because the participants are 
students. Yale's willingness to turn a 
blind eye especially surprises DKE 
brothers because they feel that their 
fraternity gets a bad rap from the uni-
versity. "Let's put it this way: If Dean 
Trachtenberg wanted to rush, she 
wouldn't choose DKE," said Grow. "I 
don't know why she doesn't do any-
thing about Tang." 

Yale's administratotS hope every 
year to hear Tang's death knell. "That 
a frat has seen fit to take it over signals 
to me that it's a tradition whose time 
has come and gone," said Dean 
Trachtenberg. "Most students care 
about more important ways to express 
themselves." 

To Trachtenberg, the participa-
tion of women in the down and dirty 
frenzy only adds to Tang's utter lack of 
charm. "For women to feel that they 
have to prove themselves by taking 
part in that kind of traditionally male 
macho behavior is a violation and 
denial of the inherent strengths that 
women have," she said. 

Some students try to play down 
the competition's seamier side. "You 
can see Tang as a meat market that 
glorifies drinking, but it's also other 
things," said Davenport's Groeber. 
"We're doing something silly, but we're 
also competing for our college." 

Although Tang is not for everyone, its 
fans always show up, either to show off 
or to watch the show. Despite the 
social changes of the last four decades, 
the beer continues to flow, leaving 
naked, screaming, and most of all 
drunken students in its wake. 

At the day's end, a ftw stragglers sit 
propped against the DKE house, too sick 
to Leave. Their faces and clothes are 
streaked with mud. The goat comes wer 
to sniff them, and then wanders off to 
check out the more appealing mud in the 
comer of the yard. 

Emily Bazeion, a senior in Pierson 
College, is managing editor of TNJ. 


**Title: Family Feuds**
**Author: Charlotte Brooks**
**Page number(s): 21**

Hillary Clinton strode to the microphone ac a 
recent rally on the New Haven Green, prominent 
ocal Democrats flanked her on every side. Smiling, 
waving, and looking for all che world like an 
Osmond family snapshot, che politicos attempt-
ed co conceal the factionalism that divides their 
party and the city it dominates. But only the 
Secret Servicemen were fooled. To jaded resi-
dents of the Elm City, the demonstration of 
Democratic unity constituted just another 
humorous scene in the complicated comedy of 
New Haven politics. 

Once upon a time the Democrats were a 
much happier family. A post-World War II 
coalition of Irish party hacks and newly-recruit-
ed Italian-Americans pushed the Democratic 
ticket of Richard Lee into the mayor's office in 
1953, ending years of Republican domination 
of City Hall. The new regime stifled dissent 
within party ranks and awarded perks to loyal 
workers. Backed by his organization, Lee went 
on to win another seven terms, using his con-
nections and doling out favors to loyal hench-
men along the way. 

The well-oiled Democratic machine ran 
New Haven from 1953 to 1977, when 
Alderman Frank Logue challenged the 
entrenched powers of his own party and cap-
tured the mayor's office. In 1979, hoV\oever, 
Biagio DiLieto took City Hall back for the 
machine. Despite such shifts, the office has 
remained firmly in Democratic hands ever since 
1953. 

Younger city voters tend to shudder at the 
term, but many old-time New Haven politi-
cians insist that the machine has played a posi-
che city. We have a good organization." 

Local Republicans agree. "Not only does the machine 
exist, but it also dominates," said Republican Town 
tive role in the city over the last 40 years. "A per-
Local politicos flanked Hillary Clinton at a recent rally on the Green. 
son will call it a machine if he asks for some-
thing and doesn't get it. If he asks for something and gets it, 
he then calls it an organization," said Arthur Barbieri, who 
has been Democratic Town Committee Chairman since 
1953. "The organization is just the leaders of all sections of 
0crOBBR 16, 1992. 
Committee member Mark Chenoweth (BK '95). "I 
wouldn't suggest election-rigging, but I think that the 
machine does everything short of it. The Democrats control 
all of the places that give out permits for businesses and 



**Title: New Haven's Political Landscape**
**Author: Charlotte Brooks**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
things like that. There has to be some 
arm-twisting happening." 

In the past, New Haven's "organi-
zation" rewarded loyal followers with 
public works jobs funded by govern-
((There are a lot of 
working-class white 
people there who feel the 
Democratic party is too 
black now. " 
ment money. But today, the scarcity of 
city dollars has crippled the machine's 
power to deliver. In fact, younger New 
Haven Democrats argue that Barbieri's 
beloved "organization" is only a mem-
ory. "The reality is that there is no 
machine," said Alderman Michael 
Morand (D-1). "Today, New Haven 
politics are based on individual candi-
dates. Barbieri is a symbol of what has 
been, and while that's important to a 
lot of people, it's also the past." 

Without an omnipotent party to 
steer the city's course, the checks and 
balances of New Haven's "system" have 
hampered political action in recent 
years. Despite its small size, New 
Haven is broken up into 30 wards, 
each represented by an elected alder-
man. Together, these representatives 
form the Board of Aldermen: a legisla-
tive body that has veto power over the 
mayor's budget, the allocation of fed-
eral grants, and some appointments to 
various departments of the city. However, the mayor 
does not need an aldermanic seal of 
approval for his choices of police com-
missioner and members of the influen-
tial boards of finance and education. 

The competing interests of alder-
men, boards, the mayor, and other 
groups often stymie the decision-mak-
ing process. "If I had my choice, I'd 
22 THE NEw JouRNAL 
probably reduce the size of the Board 
of Alders from 30 to 18," said 
Morand. "While it's important that 
parochial interests not be sacrificed, 
the system often leads to gridlock." 

Parochial battles not only occur 
between parties, but within them as 
well. 
"The 
Democratic 
Town 
Committee meetings drag on because 
there are a lot of factions," said com-
mittee member Janna Wagner (JE 
'95). "Everyone wants to speak, which 
is good, but we never resolve the ques-
tions we first addressed." 

Old members of the Democratic 
Party acknowledge that they can no 
longer keep disagreements private and 
internal. 
For 
instance, 
Chairman Barbieri endorsed John 
Daniels' primary opponent John 
DeStefano in the 1989 mayoral con-
test, and other older party members 
deserted Daniels when he stood for 
reelection in 1991. 

Nothing has arisen to take the 
place of the old Democratic monolith. 
"Mayor Daniels is a product of the old 
machine," said Paul Bass OE '82), edi-
tor of the New Haven Advocate. "But 
when he ran against it in 1989, he 
never really built an organization of his 
own." Bass cites the growth of "mini-
machines" as the wave of the future. 
"Wendell Harp is really the power 
behind the scenes in the black com-
munity," he said. "He has his own 
kind of machine and people depend 
on him, while Arthur Barbieri is still 
the head of the remnants of the old 
Italian machine." 

Despite the existence of such fac-
tions within the party, drawing clear 
lines based on race, ethnicity, or class 
had become impossible in New Haven 
politics. The Advocate recently ran an 
article claiming that local businessman 
Harp, angered at the independence of 
ex-crony and State Senator Chuck 
Allen (D-1 0), pushed his wife Toni 
Harp to announce her candidacy for 
Allen's office. Regardless of what actu-
ally inspired Harp to throw her hat 
into the ring, she split the African-
American vote and carried off the 
party's endorsement. 

Factionalism divides the party 
rank and file as well as insiders. 
Indeed, the city's Democratic party has 
suffered from the same defections that 
have cost its national counterpart the 
past three presidential elections. 
"There are a good chunk of 
Democrats in this city who are what 
you'd call 'conservative' Democrats," 
said Andy Siegel (TC '93), chairman 
of the Democratic Coordinated 
Campaign at Yale. "They have no 
qualms 
about 
opposing 
local 
Democratic candidates. For instance, 
there are five Republicans on the 
Board o£ Alders now, which is a sub-
stantial increase from four years ago." 

The Elm City's GOP minority has 
taken advantage of the rise in conser-
vatism. "Th~ Republicans have a great 
deal of support on the East Shore, and 
Fair Haven Heights is also turning a 
Younger New Haven 
Democrats argue that 
Barbieri's beloved 
((organization" is only a 
memory. 
lot more Republican," said Bass. 
"There are a lot of working-class white 
people there who feel the Democratic 
party is too black now." 

Republican leaders see the swing 
to the right as a ballot-box rebellion 
against the overarching control of the 
Democratic party rather than as a 
racial issue. "People don't want to reg-
ister Republican because they know 
that the Democrats rule everything. 
It's not smart to declare yourself their 
enemy," said Republican Town 
OcroBER 16, 1992 


--- Page 23 ---

Committee 
Chairman 
Ralph 
Marcarelli. "But obviously a lot of 
people are not loyal Democrats. If you 
count all the Republicans and unaffili-
ated voters in New Haven, that num-
ber would still not account for the 44 
percent of the vote we won in the 
1991 mayoral election." 

Indeed, Alderman Jonathan 
Einhorn's (R-25) close loss to Daniels 
in the 1991 race inspired more hope 
than disappointment. Bass and others 
believe that Republican leaders are try-
ing to convince former State Senator 
John Esposito to run for mayor in 
1993. His popularity and high name 
recognition may give his party a good 
chance of recapturing the mayor's 
office for the first time in 40 years. 

A 
in 1991, Yale's tax-exempt 
tatus might again become one 
f the most heated issues of the 
next mayoral race. As the city's larges-t 
landowner and second-largest employ-
er, Yale is a key player in the city's 
political game. Almost all of Yale's-. 
properties are tax-exempt, angering, 
local leaders strapped for cash. But 
Yale's substantial political influence 
has enabled the university to control 
much of the debate surrounding the 
taxability of its property. "The univer-
sity has used its clout both locally and 
nationally to prevent a serious exami-
nation of whether it has the responsi-
bility to pay taxes or not," said Bass. 
"One of the reasons that New Haven 
is so poor is that Yale has all of this 
non-taxable property." 

More than a few local politicians 
in both parties hope to pull the rug 
out from under Yale tax-free status. In 
the late 1980s, New Haven-based state 
representatives Paulicia Dillon (D-92) 
and Martin Looney (D-96) intro-
duced a bill that would have removed 
many of Yale's tax privileges from the 
State constitution. ·But Daniels 
opposed the bill and helped persuade 
the legislature to kill it. He then struck 
OcrosER 16, 1992. 
his own deal with Yale. In exchange for 
allowing the university to buy the 
rights-of-way on parts of High and 
Wall Streets, Yale agreed to pay taxes 
on its golf course and to ante up for 
city-provided fire services. A fiery rati-
fication battle ensued at the Board of 
Aldermen, and while Daniels won, the 
Yale agreement became a major elec-
tion issue in 1991. 

Although the "tax Yale" issue and 
the battle between Harp and Allen 
indicate the extent of disagreement 
within the Democratic Party of New 
Haven, the group appears somewhat 
more united when supporting officials 
on the national level. Indeed, the abili-
ty 
of 
candidates 
like 
U.S. 
Representative Rosa DeLauro (D-CT) 
to unite the city's various groups is 
nothing short of amazing. "She's man-
aged to stay above the party warfare 
within the city," said Morand. "At the 
same time, many people feel that she 
should do more to bring the local 
party together." 

For the time being, factions with-
in New Haven's ruling Democratic 
party have set aside their own petty 
interests for the sake of candidates like 
DeLauro and presidential hopeful Bill 
Clinton (LAW '73). Still, the post-
election period promises a return to 
divisive politics as usual. 

But to the chagrin of the city's 
Republicans, the fractured Democrats 
still manage to maintain their electoral 
advantage in New Haven. "The genius 
of the Democratic Party here in New 
Haven is that, despite the factions, 
they ultimately come together by 
always keeping their eye on the ball, 
which is power and money," said 
Marcarelli. "They're not what you'd 
call a principled party. But I'm certain 
that if the Republicans had controlled 
the city and its money for 40 years, 
we'd have turned out the same." ..,. 
Charlotu Brooks, a senior in Pi~rson 
Co/kg~. is managing ~ditor oJTNJ. 


**Title: The King of Chapel Street**
**Author: Cheryl Sheinkopf**
**Page number(s): 24**

th its dilapidated buildings and closed store-
fronts, New Haven begs for the Midas touch. 
Developer Joel Schiavone (BR '58) thinks he's 
the man for the job, but no one seems to be listening. "I've 
been working 15 years on my vision of New Haven," said 
Schiavone. "I have spent $10 million on neighborhood revi-
talization and never made one penny back." In the past, 
Schiavone could afford to run his business on a vision. 
Now, as the city reels from the recession, his vision is crum-
bling before his eyes. Schiavone blames the city for his woes. 
Meanwhile, his critics wonder whether he wants to help the 
people of New Haven or just himself. 

When Schiavone talks about improving New Haven, 
he talks about neighborhoods. "New Haven is the only 
walkable, pedestrian-sized city in the state of Connecticut," 
he said. "The city needs low-scale restoration. That means 
neighborhood restoration." The Chapel Street district, 
which Schiavone renovated, embodies his hopes for New 
Haven. On a short walk through the slick and safe urban 
neighborhood, New Haveners can shop, go to a show at the 
Palace or Shubert theaters, and have a bite to eat at any of a 
dozen restaurants. 

Schiavone became a New Haven neighborhood icon as 
'24 THE NEW jOURNAL 
he built his high-profile business empire. His career began 
at the Harvard Business School with a pizza chain called 
Your Father's Moustache, branched out into such ventures 
as Connecticut Limousine and Grey Line Tran~rtation of 
New York, and peaked during the 80s with the rise of 
Schiavone Realty and Development Corporation of New 
Haven (SRDC), which owns much of the property along 
Chapel Street. 

Schiavone combines business acumen with his own 
unique style. He has camped out on the roof of the 
Coliseum to promote the New Haven Nighthawks, played 
banjo in The Galvanized Jazz Band, posed nude for his Yale 
25th reunion book, and launched a campy gubernatorial 
campaign. At one event, he mounted a live elephant and 
proudly rode the Republican party mascot down Chapel, 
the street that symbolizes his 
success. "You need an ounce of 
flamboyance to move rev-
enues," he said, linking his 
shenanigans back to business. 

Lately, 
however, 
Schiavone's style has not 
brought him success. His real-
ty company faces serious finan-
cial difficulties, and Schiavone 
recently lost his New Haven 
landmark, 
the 
Taft 
Apartments, to Mutual of New 
York. The bank completed the 
foreclosure in September, 
three months after Schiavone's 
$7.5 million mortgage pay-
ment came due. At least one 
former tenant has accused him 
of bad business practices, and 
Schiavon~ has drawn Local 74's ir~ for mzploying non-union stag~ cr~s at his Palac~ Th~att!r. Schiavone is also waging war 
against a local union. 

Schiavone claims that his business difficulties result from 
the expiration of tax programs that helped his company 
mushroom during the 80s. For years, Schiavone relied on 
phase-ins, the incremental tax payment plan that helped busi-
nesses get off the ground by allowing them to pay gradually 
higher tax rates over a five year period. The city has recendy 
discontinued the program for Schiavone's properties. 

Schiavone's critics claim that although he blames the
OCTOBER 16, 1992 



**A New Haven Developer's Troubles**
**Author: Chuyl Sheinkopf**
**Page number(s): 25**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
city's tax policies for his financial misfortunes, his own mis-
management is the true culprit. He has often referred to his 
real estate business as a hobby. When Schiavone ran for gov-
ernor of Connecticut in 1990, SRDC t9ok the back seat to 
his unsuccessful political campaign. He spent $1.1 million . 
of his own money to pay for gimmicks like the circus parade 
on Chapel Street. Still, Schiavone defends his political aspi-
rations as a means to bring change to the city he says he 
loves. 

But some say that Schiavone's actions do not back up 
his professed devotion to New Haven. Although he lives in 
the Taft Apartments, works on Chapel Street, and often eats 
lunch at Spanky's, a local diner, some think his behavior 
masks less friendly intentions. Speaking from personal expe-
rience, they assert that Schiavone cares more about profits 
than people. Both Shalom Lemel, owner of Taft Cosmetics, 
and Ed Mangini, President of Union Local 74, view the 
development tycoon's business practices as anything but 
neighborly. 

L
emel relocated his store from the corner of College 
and Chapel Streets to Whitney Avenue as a result of a 
fallout with Schiavone. Th_e Gap, a nationwide 
clothing chain, has taken over the space that the drug store 
occupied for decades. Lemel finds the new tenant a strange 
choice for someone who touts the importance of neighbor-
hoods. "My store was a social spot where everyone could go 
to get their pharmacy goods or just get a Coke," he said. 
Lemel believes that Schiavone wanted him out and raised 
the rent so that he could not afford to stay. 
Schiavone ,disputes the charge, claiming that he wanted 
Lemel to renew his lease, but could not afford to settle for 
the low rent Lemel asked. Lemel refused to pay any more 
than $12 a foot, which Schiavone says is below the going 
rate for that property. "That guy," said Schiavone, "is the 
biggest pain in the ass I've ever dealt with." 
Lemel is not the only sore spot in Schiavone's life these 
days. For several weeks, Local 7 4 has picketed his Palace 
Theater since Schiavone locked them out when union nego-
tiations broke down in late September. The Local 7 4 stage 
crew is now out of work because Schiavone has hired cheap-
er, non-union labor from Poughkeepsie, New York. 
Mangini, president of Local 74, questions why a commited 
neighborhood advocate would deprive New Haveners of 
jobs. "If this is the city he loves, has invested in, and taken 
to heart, then what he seems to be doing is taking the peo-
ple of New Haven, slapping them across the face and saying 
'to hell with you, I gotta get what I gotta get,'" Mangini 
OcrosER 16, 1992 
said. "He thinks he should own New Haven. He's a man 
who would be king." 

In defense of his decision to lock out Local 74, 
Schiavone asserts that the Palace Theatre cannot afford 
union labor. He said that the negotiating process has been 
going on for over 15 years with little progress. Schiavone 
attributed the lack of headway to the union's refusal to 
lower its rates and to Mangini's huffy behavior. "The guy is 
acting like a 1930s labor boss," he said. Schiavone added 
that he would hire non-union New Haveners if he could 
have found a qualified non-union stage crew in the area, but 
since none existed, he had to go elsewhere. 

A
lthough he sits atop a crumbling empire, Schiavone 
finds time to rail against the city. The proposed 
Taubmen shopping mall, ~ pet project of Mayor 
John Daniels, particularly incenses him. Schiavone believes 
that the interest alone on the city money needed to build 
the mall would pay for him to restore the area from Wooster 
Square all the way up to St. Raphaels Hospital. "New 
Haven needs revitalization through lower taxes for city 
neighborhoods," he said, "not revenues from tax increases 
which are funneled into city projects." 

The Daniels administration has a different vision for 
city development. The mall, a longtime Daniels dream, will 
cover 20 acres, spanning Route 34 on a transfer platform 
and incorporating land south of the highway. City officials 
estimate that it will generate approximately $5 million a 
year for government coffers and create 4,000 jobs. Tony 
Bialecki, Economic Development Officer for the City of 
New Haven, argues that without the mall, New Haven faces 
fiscal doom. The city's already-faltering downtown retail 
district will soon have to compete with the new Ha~Y!den 
Court mall. The mall will draw customers from New Haven 
and surrounding cities and could put Chapel Square MaJl 
and swank upper Chapel Street out of business. 

Because New Haven must raise taxes to pay for the new 
mall, Schiavone thinks the city's plan will ultimately destroy 
his development business. With his Chapel Street properties 
already in trouble, he cannot afford to take many more loss-
es. But despite his economic woes and the harsh words of 
his detractors, he still boasts about his accomplishments on 
Chapel Street. "Now it looks like I will lose my $10 mil-
lion," Schiavone said. "But the work I've done here, I 
think, will last a long time." 

11111 
Chuyl Sheinkopf is a ju"nior in jonathan Edwards Colkge. 
THE NEW jOURNAL 25


**On The Road**
**Author: David Gerber**
**Page number(s): 26**

T
wo months after high school graduation, Ben 
Murray (DC '95) was about to embark on the next 
major stage of his life. Not one to prolong good-
byes, he assured his parents that they had nothing to fear and 
walked out the door. He marched to the end of his driveway 
and turned left. 

Any similarities between Murray and other Yale-bound 
students ended there. Instead of heading for Yale, Murray 
continued walking until he had covered almost 15 mile.s, 
and he did the same thing every day for the next two weeks. 
All told, Murray wandered along the east coast for six 
months, going as far south as the Everglades and travelling 
by train, foot, ferry, bus, canoe, and thumbed rides. Along 
the way he supported himself with whatever work he could 
find, including a job making pizzas and a three-week stint at 
a Kentucky Fried Chicken in Daytona Beach. He befriend-
ed a 36-year-old ex-con and his pregnant wife, a hippie 
botanist, and a woman who let Murray stay with her and 
her family if he promised not to kill her. 

Though Murray rarely knew his itinerary for more than 
a day in advance, the trip itself resulted from months of 
planning. Since the beginning of his junior year, Murray 
had been contemplating an alternative to the standard high 
school-college progression. "I wanted to see stuff that I 
hadn't seen, and I wanted to do it on my own," he said. "I 
wanted to be self-sufficient on the bare minimum level. The 
trip was a confirmation of myself." 

:z.6 
THE. NE.W' jOURNAL 

From the earliest stages of arranging his year off, 
Murray encountered opposition to his idea. Yet he remained 
determined. When his parents' apprehension crescendoed 
into a threat not to pay his tuition if he meandered for a 
year, Murray retorted, "Then maybe I'm taking the year off 
and not going to college afterward." He was even willing to 
forego Yale's offer if the university did not approve of his 
plans. 

Murray had no reason for concern: ¥ale has never 
refused a deferment request. Indeed, the university looks 
quite favorably on the option, known as "postponed matric-
ulation" in admissions lingo. "I thin~t's a great idea, and I 
wish many more students would do it," said Yale Director 
of Admissions Margie Dahl. "The extra year of maturity 
and life experience makes kids that much more ready to 
tackle college." 

Students generally fill their year off with work, travel, 
or study, and they push these categories to new limits in the 
quest for "life experience." One student interned with a 
renowned puppeteer in Italy. Another worked in a hotel to 
raise money for college. Others have danced with the New 
York City Ballet. Many have participated in exchange pro-
grams or taken courses at other colleges. An interest in biol-
ogy led one Yalie-to-be to the top of the Andes, where she 
studied indigenous birds. 

A typical crop of deferring students also includes at 
least one person involved in a significant dramatic role. 
Because she could not back out of her current contract this 
season, Sara Gilbert postponed Yale's offer last spring and 
continues to play Darlene Conner, the younger daughter on 
ABC's "Roseanne." A promising career, however, has not 
altered Gilbert's plans to study psychology at Yale starting 
next year. 

Whatever the interim activity, postponed matriculation 
now enjoys the approval of many major American universi-
ties. At a conference Dahl attended, the dean of admissions 
of a prominent university suggested that Ivy League schools 
require all future students to defer a year. Postponement 
advocates cite potential benefits &om a year off, but one perk 
consistently tops their lists: postponement's ability to rekin-
dle waning academic motivation. For this reason Dr. 
Lorraine Siggins, chief psychiatrist for Undergraduate 
Health Services at Yale, staunchly supports deferment. "A&er 
12 years of school, it's often very useful for someone to have 
experience doing something else for a year, to see themselves 
as a fuller person," she said. "If they take a year off, it's free-
ing to them. They feel they need to get off the treadmill." 

Amanda McKenna (BK '95) realized that she needed 
such an academic respite only after she graduated from high 
school. "I was very tired of studying," she said, "and I just 




**Title: THANK You**
**Author:  Various**
**Page number(s): 28**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
THANK You 
Josh Auerbach 
Sara Bakker 
Josh Civin 
Daniel Clarke 
Jackie Cooperman 
Davenport College 
Melissa Kemlitz 
Erika Fortgang 
Regina Gelin 
Suzanne Kim 
YQCC 
...... 
""1~: ~I ... 
~ I ) l 
Wgb 
j 
} 
(J 
ow~ a 
Copies only 4¢ 
David Leonhardt 
Manuscripts and 
Archives 
Charles Moss 
Matthew Pillsbury 
Cheryl Sheirikopf 
M'Balia Singley 
Chani Waterhouse 
The Yale Daily News 
The Yale Herald 
Yale Quick 
Copy Center 
149 York Street 
432-COPY 
(432-2679) 
8to 6:30 
Monday-Friday 
Resumes, Tabletents, 
Posters, Course material, 
Typesetting from 
Macintosh disks, & 
whatnot 
•per copy for more than ten coples of the sa.me orl.gln&l; 
the price 1s 4" cents each for one to ten coples. 
28 THE NEw JouRNAL 
to grasp this logic. "When people say, 
'It's going to set you back a year,' I miss 
where it's setting you back from," she 
said. "They say you're a year farther 
away from being a doctor or a lawyer. I 
would hope that life doesn't begin when 
you become a doctor or lawyer." 
While some postponed matricu-
lants do experience an initial disen-
chantment with college, the phe-
nomenon usually dissjpates quickly. 
Jane Murphy (BK '95) toyed with the 
idea of deferring again during the first 
week of her freshman year after having 
spent nine months in Turkey, where the 
widespread poverty made a lasting 
impression on her. "It seemed very easy 
to get caught up with just work and 
classes, and I was upset with myself and 
what I was doing," she said. Though 
the fe.eling still lingers, Murphy has 
realized that she can make a differ~nce 
in New Haven while studying at Yale. 
As it did for Murphy, time off 
from the conventional paths of sec-
ondary and higher education can dra-
matically recast the way students view 
their lives. "There are certainly a 
number of people I know here who 
would enjoy their lives now more and 
enjoy college more if they had taken 
some time off;" the well-traveled 
Wishcamper said. While on the road, 
he had to fend for himself--economi-
cally and otherwise--for the first time, 
which significantly eased the move to 
college the following year. The novelty 
of taking classes after a year off and 
the painless transition convinced 
Wishcamper that he had done the right 
thing, and that others could benefit as 
well. "When you go to a private high 
school and then you're planning to go 
to an Ivy League school, there's a lot 
you miss," he said. By taking a year off, 
students like Wishcamper get a taste of 
the world before they enter the ivory 
tower. 
IIIII 
David Gn-bn', a sophomorr in TrumbuU 
Colkg~. is on th~ staff of TN] . 
OCTOBER 16, 1992 


<br>

**Title: AFTERTHOUGHT ------------------------- A Union Unravels**
**Author: Ivo Banac**
**Page number(s): 29-30**

Is there any such thing as Yugoslavia? The terminology 
itself is confusing. Four of Yugoslavia's republics have 
declared independence. They are, in ch·ronological order, 
Croatia, Slovenia, Macedonia, and Bosnia-Hercegovina. 
Three of these (Croatia, Slovenia, and Bosnia-Hercegovina) 
have received recognition by most governments, including 
the U.S., and are members of the United Nations. The 
remaining two (Serbia and Montenegro) call themselves the 
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SRJ}, claim linear descent 
from Marshal Tito's Socialist Federative Republic of 
Yugoslavia (SFRJ), but recognize none of the SFRJ's institu-
tions, including the autonomy of Serbia's two autonomous 
provinces of Vojvodina and Kosovo, and have unilaterally 
promulgated a new constitution. 
The status of the SRJ is unclear. Its claim to be the 
exclusive successor to the moribund SFRJ is based on the 
notion that the other republics 
"seceded" from Yugoslavia, but this 
is disputed by the other successor 
states who claim that Serbia 
destroyed the Yugoslav federation 
and cannot now expect the benefits 
of former federal property and mem-
bership in international organiza-
tions. To Croatia and Bosnia-
Hercegovina, Yugoslavia is the inte-
gral and irretrievable sum of its for-
mer parts, not just any redefined 
portion of its former territory. To 
the United Nations, it is a rogue 
country that had to be expelled from 
this year's membership in the 
General Assembly, presumably to 
reapply at a later date as a new state 
(or states), but not as the equivalent ofTito's Yugoslavia, one 
of the United Nations' founding members. 
Then there is the question of the "war in Yugoslavia." 
War is certainly raging in Bosnia-Hercegovina and is still 
simmering in Croatia, but not a smgle shot was ever fired in 
the country that still calls itself Yugoslavia. Is it simply our 
inability to catch up with the new political realities, or does 
something in Western political culture rebel against the frag-
mentation of states, even when (or perhaps especially when) 
the fragmented states are federal conglomerates? 
The bloodshed started in June 1991 when the Yugoslav 
People's Army ONA), with the connivance of the federal 
0crOB£Jli6, 1991 
government of Ante Markovic, initiated an attack against 
Slovenia, which had just proclaimed independence. Croatia, 
which asserted its independence at the same time, was 
sidestepped in the attack and avoided resisting the army on 
behalf of its friendly and allied Slovenian neighbor. Croatia 
was already under attack, since its internal Serb insurgency, 
which was to a significant extent organized by Serbia's securi-
ty agencies, was armed and backed by the federal army. 
After the army's half-hearted showing in Slovenia, which 
the Slovenes resisted with all of their limited might, the JNA 
agreed to the withdrawal from Slovenia. The federal army 
had already become an agency of Serbian expansionism. 
With no Yugoslavia in sight and no Communist vision pos-
sible, the men of Tito's army transferred their loyalties to 
their national communities. In most cases that meant that 
their loyalties were transferred to Serbia and its policy of 
carving out a Serbian state from 
parts of Croatia and Bosnia-
Hercegovina. 
The professionalism of the 
army was no longer evident. In 
Varazdin the CroatS l:>ought peace 
with cash. Elsewhere, the army 
took on various "reservists" and 
"volunteers," who then proceeded 
to establish their reputation for 
murder and pillage throughout 
the inner rim of Croatia, from 
Vukovar to Dubrovnik. These 
vicious "militias" spearheaded the 
expulsion of Croats from the Serb-
occupied areas of Croatia. They 
continued this practice, now com-
monly called "ethnic cleansing," 
against Muslims and Croats in Bosnia-Hercegovina. 
What is the ideological basis of "ethnic cleansing"? The 
collapse of communism has engendered lethal and mutant 
forms of ideology. For example, until 1990 Serbia's strong-
man Slobodan Milosevic was the president of the League of 
Communists of Serbia, Serbia's branch of Yugoslavia's 
Communist party. Then he had his party renamed the 
Socialist Party of Serbia (SPS). The controlled Belgrade 
press celebrated the event by setting Milosevic's portrait 
alongside those of Fran9ois Mitterand, Willy Brandt, Neil 
Kinnock, Bettino Craxi, and Felipe Gonzalez. 
The Western press kept saying that Milosevic was acru-
TH£ NEW jOURNAl. 29 




**Yugoslavia: A Disaster of Western Policy**
**Author: Ivo Banac**
**Page number(s): 31-32**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
atic violation of Albanian national and 
human rights in Kosovo, where the 
Albanians constitute the absolute 
majority, are the most egregious exam-
ples of an apartheid state policy under 
European conditions. Not only has 
Albanian language and instruction 
been almost entirely eliminated from 
the public realm, but Albanians have 
been banned from virtually all profes-
sions. 

The essence of the Yugoslav politi-
cal problem was from the outset con-
nected with the illegitimate aspirations 
of Serbia. The political and intellectual 
leadership of Serbia took all of former 
Yugoslavia on a course that started with 
mythologized and falsified history and 
ended in bloodshed and genocide. 

This is something that ought to be 
pondered by those who are tempted to 
seek blame in abstract nationalism. 
There is plenty of nationalism in 
Russia, for example, and not a few for-
mer Communists with nationalise lean:. 
ings in power-yet Yeltsin is not a 
Milosevic. The Milosevic phenomenon 
is not a product of predetermined 
forces. It is a result of special circum-· 
stances and individual ambitions and 
obsessions. The cure will therefore 
have to be nuanced, but at the very 
least must include a repudiation not 
just of Milosevic, but of Serbia's expan-
sionist political program that dates 
from the 1840s, with or without the 
guise ofYugoslavism. 

Western policy toward Yugoslavia 
and former Yugoslavia, and especially 
the policy of the Bush Administration, 
has generally been a disaster. Instead of 
upholding political principles, by force 
if need be, Bush has settled for unrealis-
tic rhetoric and the appeasement of 
Milosevic. Appeasement has taken the 
form of entirely unrealistic alternatives 
to Milosevic: first the federal govern-
ment of Ante Markovic, then nothing 
from June 1991 to the beginning of 
1992, then the itinerant Prince 
Alexander Karadjordjevic, and now the 
returnee premier Milan Panic. Panic is 
a phrasemaker premier for Milosevic-
sponsored Dobrica Cosic, the president 
of Milosevic-created SRJ. Panic has no 
power. Cosic's power depends on 
Milosevic. 

As a friend put it, 
"Metaphorically speaking, in Belgrade 
we have a Stalin (Milosevic), a 
Chernenko (Cosic), and a Yeltsin 
(Panic). Only a Gorbachev is missing 
to tell them that the game is over." 

It would be an additional grave 
mistake for the U.S. to "play with 
Panic" to the detriment of real security 
arrangements that would prevent the 
escalation of war in the Balkans. The 
key strategic question: Can fascist 
regimes collapse without a powerful 
mass movement based on a real ideo-
logical alternative or without an outside 
military threat? Milosevic can be 
replaced by a Badoglio, but a Badoglio 
became possible only two weeks after 
the invasion of Sicily. The Serbian 
opposition is currently concentrating 
on weakening the determination of the 
West to maintain the sanctions. They 
argue, rather like Dusan Reljic in Vreme 
on Sept. 21, that the "West unaccount-
ably exaggerated with its disciplining of 
Serbia, using only the stick without any 
carrot for Panic." 

If they are incapable of toppling 
Milosevic, the oppositionists would do 
better to concentrate on fighting 
against his ideology rather than against 
the little that the West has done to stop 
him. Otherwise, the current whirlwind 
of activities around Panic will simply 
postpone the final reckoning. In the 
meanwhile, since Milosevic will cer-
tainly not give up without a fight, the 
chances of escalation are mounting. 
We shall soon know by how much. 

Ivo Banac is a professor of history.



MAIN GARDEN 
o/1 
~ 
Chinese food 
376 Elm Street • New Haven 
TEL:J203) 777-3747 
OPE 
7 DAYS A WEEK 
MON.-THURS.: 11AM-1 AM 
FRI.: 11 AM-2 AM 
SAT.: 12 NOON-2 AM 
SUN.: 12 NOON-12 MID 
$12 minimum delivery for Yale 
Students only. 

:J{g.pfes Pizza 1(estaurcmt 
776-9021 
90 'Wa££Street 

COLMAN 
bookkeeping services 
Undo Colman 
904 uhll~ OW('oU0 
new ~- ct 065 l 5 
(203) 387-8392 

• 
for tnore information 
call us at: 
1-800-972-0970 
Recruiters on campus 
Information session and film showing 
Tuesday, October.20, 1992. 4:00 pm 
career servtces butldtng 
To us, it's as easy as going 
to the faucet. To millions 
of children in the develop-
ing world, it's a lifesaver. 
Over 3.5 million children 
die each year of diseases 
resulting from unclean 
water, but the Peace Corps 
is doing something about 
it. Volunteers are at work 
on 5 continents, educating 
developing communities 
about health and nutrition, 
building wells and sanita-
tion systems, and helping 
to eradicate water-borne 
diseases that unnecessarily 
cause the deaths of millions. 
Your degree or experi-
ence in nutrition, nursing, 
other allied health fields, 
or even construction can 
be put to use in Asia, 
Africa, the Pacific Islands, 
and Latin America. Join 
those who are person-by-
person bettering the health 
of the world. And coming 
back with an edge on the 
competition for graduate 
school or a boost up the 
career ladder. Lend a 
hand. Share your heart. 

