Publication date: April 2002
Volume: 34
Issue number: 5


**MASTHEAD:**
- PUBLISHER: Eric Rutkow
- EDITOR-IN-CHIEF: Daniel Kurn-Phelan
- MANAGING EDITORS: Nica Cohn, Matthew Underwood
- DESIGN ED: David Bartolucci
- PRODUCTION MANAGER: Flora Lichtman
- BUSINESS MANAGER: Michael Bixler
- PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR: Santiago Mostyn
- ASSOCIATE EDITORS: Jacob Blecher, Clint Garrod
- ASSOCIATE DESIGNER: Jimena Chang
- RESEARCH DIRECTOR: Kathryn Malizia
- WEB DESIGNER: Michael Attias
- CIRCULATION AND SUBSCRIPTIONS MANAGER: Matthew Patmon, Victoria Truschke
- STAFF: Ruth Abelson • Sushama Gandhi • Judith Miller • Hideo Phillips • Patrick Casey Pins • Sophia Raschman • Benia Singh • Nadia Sussman • Ellen Thompson • Anthony Weiss
- MEMBERS OF BOARD: Joshua Civin • Peter B. Cooper • Tom Griep • Brooke Kellog • Jennifer Pitts • Henry Schwab • Anya Kamenetz • Elizabeth Sledge • Fred Strebeigh • Thomas Strong
- ADVISORS: Richard Blow • Jay Carr • Richard Conniff • Ruth Conniff • Elisha Cooper • Lauren Rabin • Steve Weisman • David Yoffie


**TABLE OF CONTENTS:**
- FEATURES
- Crossing Enemy Lines - Daniel Kurn-Phelan
- Silent Treatment - Emily Breunig
- Ladies' Night - Christopher Heaney
- STANDARDS
- Points of Departure
- Shots in the Dade Prelude - Santiago Mostyn
- Essay: The Hidden Curriculum - Blake Wilson
- Essay: Nobody Waits at Walgreens - Matthew Schneider-Mayerson
- The Critical Angle: This is the Way the World Ends - Jacob Blecher reviewing The Translator by John Crowley
- Endnote: Walk This Way - Nica Cohn


**Title: Crossing Enemy Lines**
**Author: Daniel Kurn-Phelan**
**Page number(s): 14**

The Yale Police department seeks to mend civic wounds by blurring age-old 
boundaries.


**Title: Silent Treatment**
**Author: Emily Breunig**
**Page number(s): 20**

Can Yale's sexual harassment policy avert disaster?


**Title: Ladies' Night**
**Author: Christopher Heaney**
**Page number(s): 24**

Lust and longing at the Red Hot Pony Express.


**Title: Points of Departure**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 4**



**Title: Shots in the Dade Prelude**
**Author: Santiago Mostyn**
**Page number(s): 12**



**Title: Essay: The Hidden Curriculum**
**Author: Blake Wilson**
**Page number(s): 30**



**Title: Essay: Nobody Waits at Walgreens**
**Author: Matthew Schneider-Mayerson**
**Page number(s): 33**



**Title: The Critical Angle: This is the Way the World Ends**
**Author: Jacob Blecher**
**Page number(s): 36**

reviewing The Translator by John Crowley


**Title: Endnote: Walk This Way**
**Author: Nica Cohn**
**Page number(s): 38**

The New Journal is published three times during the academic year by The New Journal at Yale, Inc., P.O. Box 2050, Yale Station, New Haven, CT 06520. Office: 19-45 B. Street. Phone: (203) 432-1937. All content copyrighted 2001 by The New Journal at Yale, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without written permission of the publisher and editor-in-chief is prohibited.  While this magazine is published by Yale College students, Yale University is not responsible for its content. Seven thousand five hundred copies of each issue are distributed free to members of the Yale and New Haven community. Subscriptions are available to those outside the area. Rates: One year, $15. Two years, $30. The New Journal is printed by Turkey Publications, Palmer, WA; bookkeeping and billing services are provided by...


**Title: The Persistence of Memory**
**Author: Anthony Weiss**
**Page number(s): 4-5**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
The Persistence of Memory 
An elegant young woman stares down at 
the director of the New Haven Colony 
Historical Society as he works in his office, 
a constant reminder that the eyes of histo-
ry are upon him. The director must decide 
what he owes the portrait. Is he a guest in 
her room, or she a guest in his? 

The Historical Society has long been a 
refuge from contemporary New 
Haven. Inside, cows still graze on 
che New Haven Green. Yet even 
the Society has not escaped the 
forces that have changed the city. 
Strolling through the galleries, I 
couldn't help but notice that I 
was alone, and I began to wonder 
if the Society itself was poised to 
fade away like so much of New 
Haven's past. 

For answers 
about 
the 
Society's past and its prospects 
for the future, I turned to former 
Executive 
Director 
Richard 
Hegel and current Executive 
Director Peter Lamothe. Hegel 
was the Society's 
Director in the late 1960s, "the 
Golden Age, back when every-
thing was perfect." Now 74, he is still on 
the Board of Directors, and a quintessential 
old-timer, always genteel. Lamothe, at 31, is 
the bright new hope. He came co New 
Haven to run the society in April of 2000 
with extensive experience in the museum 
field, first at the Thomas Jefferson 
Foundation, which runs Monticello, then 
at the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum in 
Boston. He speaks like a professional. 
"Historical societies and museums are 
moving away from being a trailitionally 
product-oriented organization and more 
into the service and experience industry." 
In other words, the Society is not just a 
resource for people to come and use; it 
should reach out and offer them new expe-
riences. 

Like most rooms in the Historical Society, 
the director's office has a fireplace. Inside it 
is Benedict Arnold's wrought-iron chim-
neypiece, from 1771. Staunch Arnold fans, 
4 
sifring through the society's archives, might 
also find the sign from his New 
Haven drugstore and his waste book, along 
with a silver tankard owned by Jonathan 
Edwards, a piece of Daniel Webster's 
deathbed, and endless other stuff that 
suaddles the fine line berween historical 
gems and oddball exotica. 

Such relics inspired 
founding. To the founders, 
the Society's 
history was a 
family affair, passed along in heirlooms and 
stories. However, by the 186os, some of 
New Haven's citizens sensed that times 
were changing and this was no longer suffi-
cient. What co do with these memories, 
this scuff? In 1862, they founded the 
Society. The emphasis on family history 
attracted not only antiquarians, but people 
like Mary Ellen Hotchkiss, the elegant 
young woman on Lamothe's wall, who 
fused the Historical Society with high soci-
ety. This association helped to sustain the 
Society for years, but after World War II, 
the old famjjjes began to move to the sub-
urbs, and the Society lost one of its main-
stays of support. "It was always broke," 
remembers Hegel. "Every rime it would 
rain, Ogden [President William Ogden 
Ross] and I would go up to the steel grid 
beneath the roof and push buckets around 
on the I-beams to catch the water so it 
wouldn't leak through the ceiling." 

Fundraising was a personal affair. For 
one exhibition, Hegel and the president 
approached a donor for $xo,ooo. The pres-
ident said, "You're familiar with what we 
can do, and we can do it well." The donor 
responded, "My arrorney will mail you a 
check for SIO,ooo." Once a show goes up, 
believes Hegel, the quality must speak for 
itsel£ "If you have a well-presented exhibit, 
it will attract." 

The 18TH century tableware exhibit 
irks Lamothe more than almost any-
thing. Aside from the tableware 
itself, there is nothing attractive 
about it. The room is dim and claus-
trophobic, the tableware crammed 
into small cases, some of them so 
poorly located that a normal-sized 
viewer staniling upright will find 
himself staring not at colonial-era 
china, but at cheap, painted ply-
wood ilisplay walls. Lamothe sees 
this "culture of mediocrity" as 
endemic to the Society he inherited. 
"I'm trying to smash that culture." 
Gesturing with his arm, he tells 
me that the entire display will soon 
be cleared away. "We're going to use 
this space to bouse a new special 
exhibition gallery. Our first show 
will be a photography exhibition on 
redevelopment and the Oak Street neigh-
borhood." The redevelopment exhibit is 
part of Lamothe's effort to move the 
Society away from its focus on 18TH and 
19TH century history. One of his first 
exhibits was on contemporary New Haven 
architects, which attracted 6oo people. The 
society 
also 
collaborated 
with 
International Festival of Arts & Ideas on 
"The 1901 Project," which represented 
turn-of-the~cenrury life through everyday 
items, like the steamer trunk that brought 
a family's possessions across from Europe. 
The crowds were so large that people had 
to be turned away. 

The difference berween Hegel and 
Lamothe isn't exactly that they disagree. It's 
that they agree while saying completely dif-
ferent things. To Lamothe, the Society is 
outdated and in need of reform. In Hegel's 
view, the society remains, and will remain, 
a place that interested people will seek out. 
Lamothe feels there are too many people 
THE N.ew JouRNAL 


who don't yet know they're interested. 
Mary 
Ellen 
Hotchkiss 
watches 
Lamothe every day as he struggles to mod-
ernize the Society. However, she may not 
be watching for much longer. When I 
asked Lamothe about the portrait, he 
shrugged. ''I'm going to clear some of this 
stuff out of here. I want to put up some 
contemporary photography." 
-Anthony Weiss


**Title: Courts Ide**
**Author: Flora Lichtman**
**Page number(s): 5**

On March 19, Graham Boyd, a 
New Haven-based lawyer for the 
American Civil Liberties Union, 
went to court. Not just any court. 
He represented Lindsay Earls 
before the Supreme Court of the 
United States. When Earls, now a 
freshman at Dartmouth, was a 
sophomore at Tecumseh High 
School in Oklahoma, she was 
required as a member of the after-
school choir to give a urine sample 
to check for marijuana, heroin, 
cocaine, and steroids. Earls filed 
suit against the school board that 
had ordered the test, claiming it was an 
infringement of her constitutional rights. 
The ACLU took her case, and it slowly per-
colated through the judicial system, ending 
up in the Supreme Court. 

At five o'clock that morning, I stood 
shivering under a dark morning sky; I 
could just make out the words "Equal 
Justice Under The Law" glaring down at 
me. The argument was scheduled to begin 
at 10 AM, but public tickets were given out 
on a first come, first served basis. I had five 
hours to wait. 

Boyd, who graduated from Yale 
College in 1987 and Yale Law School in 
1992, oversees the ACLU's Drug Policy 
Litigation Project out of its New Haven 
office. This case, Board of Education v. 
Earls, Number 01-332, seemed simple. 
Boyd would argue that testing students just 
because they are involved in extracurricular 
activities is a violation of a provision of the 
Fourth Amendment-the right to be free 
from unreasonable search and seizure. 

What made the case more complicated, 
however, was that Tecumseh High School's 
policy seemed only a modest expansion of 
a drug testing policy approved in a 1995 
case. Then, the Supreme Court had ruled 
APRIL 2002 
that high school athletes in Vernonia, 
Oregon, could be required to submit to 
mandatory drug tests. But in Vernonia 
there was evidence of widespread drug use 
among athletes. At Tecumseh, there was no 
such evidence: Only five of 500 students 
tested in recent years have shown up posi-
tive for drug use. In fact, students involved 
in an extracurricular activity like choir 
seemed even less likely than the general 
population to be using drugs--a key point 
in Boyd's argument. 

A few minutes after ten, a dull buzzing 
noise filled the court's main chamber, and a 
hush senled over the observers and liti-
gants. The Crier swung his gavel down on 
a wooden block. We all stood as he 
announced, "The honorable, the Chief 
Justice and the Associate Justices of the 
Supreme Court of the United States. Oyez, 
oyez, oyez." From behind the fl~wing cur-
tains, the justices emerged in unison, clad 
in long black gowns. The simultaneous low 
buzz, whoosh of the curtain, and sudden 
appearance of nine of the most influential 
people in the world was overwhelming. I 
felt like I was watching a play, everything 
scripted and performed a thousand times 
before. 

As soon as Linda Meoli, the lawyer 
representing the Independent School 
District No. 92 of Pottawatomie County, 
Oklahoma, began her argument, I realized 
this performance would not go as planned. 
Before Meoli could get out a sentence, 
Justice O'Connor broke in with an unrelat-
ed question. Then Justice Souter noted that 
the Tecumseh school district has shown a 
very low incidence of drug use, to which 
Justice Rehnquist caustically replied on 
Meoli's behalf, "The existence of th~ policy 
might be expected to deter drug use, 
wouldn't it?" Justice Ginsberg, in a slow 
and roundabout response, drew a crucial 
distinction between the last drug testing 
case and this one. Through it all, the argu-
ment was easy to follow; the questions were 
supremely logical and free oflegalese, based 
on straightforward common sense. 

Boyd took the podium after 
an intense half-hour of argument 
dominated by questions from 
Meoli's opponents on the bench. 
The justices that laid low during 
Meoli's argument sprang to life 
when Boyd approached the podi-
um. Scalia brought his chair to its 
upright position, Kennedy stared 
intensely, and Rehnquist's eyes 
flashed red. (Only Justice Thomas, 
his undivided attention apparently 
devoted to the ceiling, remained 
aloof during both arguments.) At 
points during Boyd's argument, 
intensity grew to anger. Kennedy, 
presenting to Boyd a hypothetical 
scenario, referred to a school that 
did not test for drugs as "the druggie 
school." "No parent," he continued, 
"would send a child to that school-except 
maybe your client." This personal attack 
seemed strangely out of line, especially 
since Earls had tested negative for drug use. 

Both sides finished, and I descended 
from the highest court in the land in a 
daze. Both lawyers had endured a mental 
firing squad of the sharpest shooters in the 
country; just watching took it out of me. 
From the sea of supporters for both sides, I 
watched Lindsay Earls, my age exactly, 
walk down the front steps of the Supreme 
Court, the words "Equal Justice Under the 
Law" looming above her. Something 
clicked. Equal justice means accessible jus-
tice. Lindsey Earls, a regular teenager from 
a small town in Oklahoma had a problem 
with the way her school conducted busi-
ness, and it turned our to be important 
enough for the most influential judicial fig-
ures in the world to puzzle through. 

The Court will release its ruling on her 
case this SUfll..\Der. 
-Flora Lichtman


**Title: Damn the Man**
**Author: Victoria Truschke**
**Page number(s): 6**

"Very very few students . . . who come 
through social programs at Dwight Hall go 
on ro jobs and careers that affect the social 
conditions in the community of New 
Haven or any O[her community, as far as I 
know," George Edwards says as he sits in 
the Dwight Hall common room. 37 years 
ago, Edwards was on campus for the first 
time in this very room, jolting Yalies out of 
their wide-eyed stupor at a Students for a 
Democradc Society meeting. He's been 
around ever since, but chat's made him no 
less pissed off. 

Edwards is proud to be a pain in the 
ass, continually bothering institutions like 
Yale and the city government. His criticism 
of Yale's community-related programs is 
biting. "You look at the last 35 years, and 
there's a serious march to power at Yale to 
take almost total control of the institution-
al power ... in the city of New Haven. I 
don't think it looks good for the future of 
the power of the people in this city." 

He recaJis his first days in New Haven 
with pride. "I think what I had to say then 
was quite shocking to the persons present 
because I was advocating armed struggle as 
a revolutionary thrust, and that was fright-
ening -even my presence while I was talk-
ing." He has agitated, demonstrated, and 
been arrested countless times in the past 
three decades as a Black Panther and advo-
cate for social justice. Edwards and his 
friends used to barge into New Haven pub-
lic schools, demanding inclusion of black 
studies in the curriculum. They called 
themselves the Angry Young Black Men. 

Today, such tactics seem inappropriate 
co some. "People say I'm antiquated, I 
should shut up, retire, don't come to this 
meeting, oh there he goes again, here he 
comes again, oh my God he's got some-
thing ro say, he's gonna say something, he's 
gonna upstage everybody." Edwards does 
not refme those accusations. He does not 
seem ro mind them. "I think that I would 
be absolutely mad ifl didn't activate or give 
something back. I know that I would. I 
probably wouldn't even be sitting here--l'd 
probably be dead." For Edwards, activism 
is not a hobby, but an identity. 

He has not budged from his revolu-
tionary rnindsec; chat is obvious in his every 
word. He is convinced that the World 
6 
Trade Center bombing was an "inside job." 
He carries around anri-war propaganda, 
slapping posters on bulletin boards and 
greeting students he knows with a kind 
word. Speaking to Edwards sends you back 
to 197o-to a much older, tenser New 
Haven. 

For nearly as long as Edwards has been 
an activist, Yale studems have written 
senior essays, seminar papers, and journal-
istic accounts of New Haven-and George 
Edwards--in the late sixties. But Edwards 
can't think of himself as a historical figure. 
He is reticent about his role in the famous 
trial of Bobby Seale, preferring to talk phi-
losophy. I am sicring face to face with a liv-
George Edwards. center 
ing, reluctant historical document. 

Though he is willing co help students 
with their scholarly analysis, he does not 
distinguish what he has lived through from 
what he is living now. Students, decades 
removed from Edwards' Panther years, 
make a distinction between then and now. 
Edwards does not. 

Edwards is still doing what he's always 
done. His message hasn't changed since his 
days as a Panther: Stop exploiting us! His 
cynicism has grown from direct interaction 
with Yale and the New Haven political 
machine, and the short attention span of 
Yale activists infuriates him. "I've seen infil-
trators that get acknowledged as the activist 
srudent heroes, and ten years later, they cut 
the long hair, take off the ragged jeans and 
sneakers. They have two or three degrees 
from the university, and they're in the 
office, suit and rie, giving orders as an 
administrator. Case in point: 
Mike 
Morand. He was the leading anti-apartheid 
student activist. He's almost Secretary of 
the University. You wouldn't know Mike 
Morand now from the Mike Morand of 
'84, '85, '86. It's like a chameleon." 

Yale srudent activists recogniu: and 
even agree with Edwards' concerns, but 
hardly ever implicate themselves as sellouts. 
"I would guess there are some of us who 
don't [sell out]. But without a doubt, many 
of us will go on to work in banking, con-
sulting, industry, fmance, hi-tech, or cor-
porate law," says Justin Ruben, a Forestry 
student active in anri-globalizarion efforts 
who bas spoken with Edwards about his 
own work. 

Despite their differences, Yalies keep 
coming back to Edwards, and Edwards 
keeps corning back to them. Through the 
course of our discussion, Edwards softens 
his rone. "I've had community people, 
white and black, tell me, 'Why are you 
wasting your rime with Yale students?' ... 
but how can you denounce Yale students 
for being involved? People have studies, 
they have their own lives, they're young-
you have to put things in perspective." 
-Victoria Trusch~it


**Title: Toy Soldiers**
**Author:  [Author not specified]**

Sergeant First Class {Retired) Jose L. 
Romero marches back and forth at the 
head of the room. "Who here can recite the 
cadet creed without srurnbling?" he barks. 
Student after srudent steps up. They all 
begin the same way, speeding through the 
memorized words, but eventually trip up 
and burst into laughter. Romero is disgust-
ed. "I tell you what, I'm going ro pick on 
one boy, and if he can't recite the creed, all 
the boys are going ro drop and give me 
fifty." When his chosen victim fails to recite 
it perfectly, he reminds them of what they 
discussed the day before: "You know what 
they say? They say black schools and inner 
city schools are the most difficult .... On 
Monday I talked to you about respect and 
discipline. Do I need to make you sir with 
your palms on the table again? The first 
thing [that goes wrong], guess what, I'm 
going to lynch you right our there: he 
says, pointing past the American Aag by the 
window, "and then I'm going to burn a taco 
so they know it was me." He calls our to a 
girl who has already failed her first anempr 
to recite the creed. "Williams, you said you 
were going ro come up here." "I can't, sir. 
. My hearr is beating!" "You're weak!" He 
screams, 
pointing at 
her 
violently. 
THE NEW jOURNAL 



**Title: JROTC at Hillhouse High**
**Author: Sophie Raseman**
**Page number(s): 7-8**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
"Everybody drop and give me ten!" The 
entire class drops to the floor and begins to 
do the push-ups. When they are done, he 
calls six students to the front. They recite 
the creed in unison: 
I am an army ]ROTC cadet. I will 
always conduce myself to bring 
credit co my family, country, 
school and corps of cadets. I am 
loyal and patriotic. I am the 
future of the United States of 
America. I do not lie, cheat,· or 
steal and will always be account-
able for my actions and deeds. I 
will always practice good citizen-
ship and patriotism. I will work 
hard to improve my mind and 
strengthen my body. I will seek 
the mantle of leadership and 
stand prepared co uphold che 
constitution and the American 
way of life. May God grant me 
the strength to live by this creed. 
The whole process cakes half a class period. 


Suddenly, the bell rings, and the students 
erupt out of their seats and dash to the 
door. 
This is the }ROTc's second year in 
operation at Hillhouse High School, a 
sprawling, newly renovated building on 
Sherman Parkway with mostly black and 
Hispanic students. For four years, Principal 
Lonnie Garris, a former ROTC cadet him-
self, lobbied to bring the program to 
Hillhouse in spite of bureaucratic red tape 
and community opposition. As Dana 
Charles, a senior ]ROTC cadet, explains, 
"Parents and a Joe of people were against it, 
because they thought it promoted violence. 
They signed petitions. They thought we 
would be using guns." 


}ROTC is not the military's only means 
of gaining access co Hillhouse students. 
Recruiters regularly come into the school 
cafeteria ac lunch and stop students in the 
hallways. According to cadet Shana Barton, 
recruiters will say anything to get a student 
to enlist. "My recruiter wasn't telling me 
[important information] cause he wanted 
me to join right then .... They get paid 
more money if they recruit more." While 
students are suspicious of recruiters, they 
see retired Colonel Donald B. Leazott, the 
}ROTC director, as an ally. The military is 
anxious co distinguish }ROTC from its direct 
recruitment programs. On the school's 
website, the JROTC at Hillhouse says its 
mission is "To motivate young people to be 
better citizens." Above all, Colonel Leazott 
wanes to emphasize that his program is not 
a recruitment tool. "We don't work with 
recruiters," he insists. "We are not a recruit-
ing program." 


Yet Shanavia Swepson, a freshmi'-n 
cadet, says that after joining JROTC "mostly 
everybody I know, most of the boys and 
some of the girls" are planning to join the 
military. Whatever the party line about the 
military's intent, it seems the effect of 
JROTC is to encourage enlistment. And 
Marilyn DeJesus, a second year cadet, 
recalls Army Sergeant Dorsey coming into 
the classroom several times. Her experience 
is typical. "[Before joining JROTC] when I 
thought about the army, I thought about 
wars. But it's not really like that. I had a 
whole different perspective. Sergeant 
Dorsey cleared that up for me." Now she 
says she is going into Basic Training this 
summer. Many of the other students with 
whom I spoke experienced similar conver-
sions after joining }ROTC. "Before, I was not 
serious about joining the military," said 
Charles, who was just accepted into West 
Point. "Then Sergeant Romero taught us 
about West Point in class ... [and the 
Colonel] drove me up to visit." 


Some parents and others worry that 
students are making uninformed decisions 
with 
serious 
repercussions. 
Joanne 
Sheehan, the New England coordinator of 
the War Resistors League, regularly goes 
into schools to give kids the information 
the military leaves out. To a girl like 
Barton, whose recruiter promised a job in 
"engineering," Sheehan would explain, 
"The actual assignment you get is com-
pletely at the discretion of the military." 
And beware, Sheehan warns, the promises 
of increased earning power. "Most job 
training in the military is not transferable 
to the real world," she explains. "One of 
the most potent recruiting tools is the 
notion that if you enlist it will pay for your 
education." 


Unfortunately, she says, 
"Statistics show that few people are able to 
take advantage of [this money]." And with 
increased 
reserve 
deplovment 
after 
September 11, enlistment itself may be a 
question of life and death. 


After the JROTC class ends, I ask 
DeJesus what she would do if she changed 
her mind about going to war after enlist-
ing. She looks puzzled. ''I'd probably get 
myself kicked out, or ask for permission to 
leave." Did she know what might happen 
to her? "I think you get disciplined or 
something." In fact, she could be jailed or 
dishonorably discharged. Had the Colonel 
or the Sergeant ever talked about stuff like 
that? Marilyn laughs. "They wouldn't want 
us to get a bad opinion about the army. 
They wouldn't want to talk about the real 
things." I ask her if she knows how long she 
will be committed to the army if she 
enlists. "I'm not really sur~I think it's 
two years minimum." The minimum com-
mitment is eight years, two of active duty 
and six in the reserves, during which time 
you can always be called into active duty. I 
asked her if she has ever done any research 
beyond asking her recruiter and Colonel 
Leazott about how enlistment works or 
about her rights once there. She shakes her 
head. "I pretty much know the things I 
need to know." 
-Sophie Raseman


**Had Hill Residents Been More Proactive?**
**Author: Anita Singh**
**Page number(s): 10**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Had Hill residents instigated their 
protest earlier, would the city have 
responded to their requests? When resi-
dents in the East Rock neighborhood 
learned that the school renovation plan 
included the demolition of residents' 
homes, a committee of parents immediate-
ly put together an extensive report on 22 
alternative sites and hired a lawyer 
to 
defend their property against the city's 
claim of eminent domain. David Cameron, 
a Yale professor and East Rock resident, 
recalls that the construction project was 
halted and the Mayor "created a different, 
more public process." 


Pastor Drews remains convinced that 
"that middle-class neighborhood of East 
Rock was treated incredibly differently." 
Sitting in her office, which is cluttered with 
drafts of sermons and city contracts, Pastor 
Drews contends "that it would seem to me 
in the u.s. you give equal treatment to 
neighborhoods of all classes. This is a poor, 
disempowered neighborhood, and it's diffi-
cult for people to see that they can oppose 
this." Drews believes that the apathy of Hill 
residents should have motivated the city to 
reach out to the community, and Cameron 
agrees. "Residents in East Rock most likely 
had more sources of information, more 
resources. We got information that the Hill 
residents weren't able to get." 


Walking down Ward Street, Pastor 
Drews points out three houses just named 
as part of a historic district that will soon 
be demolished. "These houses have been 
home to immigrants for 100 years and they 
are still standing," Drews says, "Even 
immigrants of modest means, a hundred 
years ago, were provided housing that had 
dignity, design and enabled them to live 
with a sense of respect. Now it's just 
blight." But the blight that we so often 
associate with neglect tells a different story 
in the Hill neighborhood-the story of res-
idents trying too late to empower them-
selves; and a city trying too hard to do 
what's best. 
-Anita Singh


**Funny Girls**
**Author: Meredith Angellson**
**Page number(s): 10-11**

Women aren't funny. That's the impression 
you get from watching them in comedy 
shows at Yale. But as a seven-year veteran of 
an all-female education, I knew women 
could be talented comedians. I hoped that 
I would find the same in college. But here, 
humor seems to be a man's domain in the 
performance world. When Marisa Bass told 
me she was starting an all-female comedy 
group, I was thrilled. The first show's 
sketches were diverse, spoofing everything 
from a cappella singing to Jesus Christ. It 
wasn't the funniest show I'd ever seen, but 
it was a good start. Bass' ensemble--the 
Sphincter Troupe--is a first step in liberat-
ing the Funny Woman at Yale. 


As it turns out, the group wasn't trying 
to liberate anyone. Rather, when they 
decided to start an all-female group, they 
were only trying to do something fresh. 
"The Fifth Humor was here first, so anyone 
else has to do something different to have a 
reason to be here," says Bass. Founding the 
Troupe was in part a reaction to the Fifth 
Humor. "[Co-founder] Jessica [Cohen] 
and I would go to Fifth Humour shows 
and see that the guys wrote all the sketches 
and the women didn't have any good 
parts," Bass says. "It didn't seem to me like 
it was because the girls weren't funny, but 
because the parts that were written for 
them didn't allow them to be funny." 


Unlike any other comedy group at Yale, in 
the Sphincter Troupe women write, direct, 
and perform their own work. And in an all-
female rehearsal environment, they can 
relax, be creative, and have fun. "What 
really works about our group is that every-
one listens to each other," Bass says. "We 
like each other, we spend time together, we 
don't have internal fights in the group, and 
I think it comes across in our shows that 
we're having fun, which makes the shows 
funnier." 


But taking men out of the equation 
may only perpetuate the problem by sug-
gesting that women can't match men joke 
for joke when they share the stage. The fact 
remains that in co-ed performances, 
women aren't quite pulling their weight. 
Take the Fifth Humor as an example. As a 
general rule, Humor women don't write 
sketches and have not yet directed or pro-
duced any of the group's shows. The 
women play the parts of wives or daughters 
or talk show hosts-mere supporting roles. 
Adam Wells, president of the Fifth Humor, 
says this is because "the sketches are written 
by males for males. Sketch ideas are hard to 
come up with, and when you think of an 
idea you want to write it. You don't want to 
put it off just to write a sketch with girls in 
it." According to him, the process is not a 
conscious attempt to exclude women from 
comedy. Rather, it's a response to the fact 
that most comedic archetypes are male. 
"When you're looking to make fun of a his-
torical figure or a certain profession, you're 
going to think of a guy, because it is so 
much more common for those figures to be 
men." Wells argues further that letting 
women play these roles complicates what 
could otherwise be straightforwardly 
funny. "A big part of the success of a sketch 
is figuring out what your joke is and stick-
ing to it. Adding other layers can some-
times distract from what you're really after." 
Humor is the first priority, even if success 
requires alienating half the members of a 
group. 


This male-dominated stage dynamic is 
also apparent when improvisational come-
dy groups perform. The women often seem 
inhibited. And nothing is less funny than 
someone trying to be funny when she obvi-
ously thinks she's not. Often, the funniest 
topics seem taboo for women to joke 
about. "Girls can rarely pull off dirty 
humor," says Molly Worthen, a junior who 
is a former member of the Viola Question. 
"We were playing one of the line games," 
she says, describing an experience she had 
as the only actress performing in vQ's 
twelve-hour improv marathon. "One of the 
guys was like, 'right, our topic is ... VAGINAS!' I was so alienated. As a girl, I just can't 
make those jokes." 


What's clear to Worthen, Bass, and 
other aspiring comediennes is that women 
can't just wait around until it's okay for 
them to be crass on stage. Women can be 
funny, but perhaps not in the same crude 
ways as men. They need to discover the 
comedic vocabulary that's natural to them. 
The Sphincter Troupe is an important first 
step in allowing women to do just that, and 
Yale audiences may soon be more comfort-
able with funny women. But before that 
happens, they must learn to crack a new 
kind of joke. 
-Meredith Angellson
jessica Cohen is managing editor for TNJ. 


**Title: The Yale Police Department seeks to mend civic boundaries**
**Author: Daniel Kurtz-Phelan**
**Page number(s): 14-15**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
AT ONE IN THE MORNING ON FEBRUARY 17, 1991, a Yale sophomore named Christian Prince was shot dead on the steps of a church on Hillhouse Avenue. The murder-a botched robbery attempt, according to investigators-reinforced a belief already held by most members of the University community at the time: that the City of New Haven was a terrifying place to go to school. Yale's administration, under siege and increasingly wary of New Haven's national notoriety, responded with a slew of new security measures. Lighting was improved on dark streets, and 250 blue security phones were installed, positioned so that one of the neon bulbs marking a phone's location would be visible from nearly every point on campus. Most dramatically, the Yale Police Department underwent a complete overhaul. Within the next year, the size of the force increased by more than 50 percent from its pre-1990 level; by the end of 1992, there were 80 armed police officers on Yale's campus. 

But even as the University bolstered its fortifications against security threats, that year also marked a turning point of another sort. Facing a crisis in its relationship with New Haven and an epidemic of violent crime edging ever closer to campus, Yale reformulated its tactics and did something unexpected: Instead of further detaching itself from its surroundings, the University began to take a more active role in city affairs. Under the leadership of Yale President Richard Levin, who took office in 1993, Yale showed a heightened interest in the surrounding residential neighborhoods and commercial properties, and in New Haven's overall vitality. Instead of further building up its walls, it created porous borders-allowing, supporters claim, the University's positive influence to diffuse into the city around it: A decade later, the fruits of this effort are readily apparent. The areas around campus are, for better or worse, transformed, and the relationship between Yale and New Haven is flourishing as never before. 

This revolution in town-gown relations-with a corresponding change in the way Yale thinks of and protects its own boundaries-presents a new kind of challenge to the most recent incarnation of the Yale Police Department. With blurred borders came the need for a more active role in the community and a more holistic approach to security. Property acquisitions near campus demanded new patrol routes and increased vigilance. According to statistics the YPD has responded successfully: Since 1992, crime on campus has fallen by more than half, violent crime by almost two thirds. 

YALE POLICE OFFICERS HAVE FULL POWERS OF ARREST, the right to carry a weapon (and use it when necessary), and full jurisdiction over all of New Haven. They go through complete police training and accreditation and bear all the rights and responsibilities of regular city cops. For all intents and purposes, the YPD functions like any city police force, with one critical difference: Its primary allegiance is to the University, a private and exclusive entity within the city itself. The department is, in the words of University Secretary Martha Highsmith, under whose administrative and financial control it falls, a "private police force" with a broader public role. 

Among university police departments, this makes the YPO unique; no other campus police force can claim such extensive power or expansive jurisdiction. Yale Police Chief James Perrotti sees this difference as essential to his department's ability to serve at a school like Yale in a city like New Haven. "Other university's departments are restricted to campus," he explains. "But we could not do the job we do without the authority we have." 

In Perrotti's office, there hangs a framed poster from a lecture at the Yale School of Management by former New York City Police Commissioner Howard Safir. Safir, who led the effort to clean up New York City in the early 1990s, is an apostle of "community policing"-the idea that cops can best combat crime by focusing on relatively minor violations of the law, like jaywalking or property neglect, and proactively engaging the communities which they serve. Some observers have called this the "broken windows" theory; small signs of neglect lie, in an important sense, at the root of serious crime. Perrotti, for one, is a passionate devotee of the doctrine. Since taking over as Chief of the YPO in 1998 (after twenty five years as a member of the force), he has practiced his own version of "community policing" around the University. This spring, the YPD will begin construction of a new headquarters at a recently purchased site on Lock Street, straddling the campus's northern boundary and the edge of the Dixwell neighborhood. The move represents both an affirmation and test of Perrotti's approach. Though the new site is relatively close to the department's current home on Sachem Street-a crumbling brick house on a dead end driveway-the move will mean an entirely new kind of presence in a neighborhood that appears to have little to do with the University. 



**Title: The Translator**
**Author: JOHN CROWLEY**
**Page number(s): 16**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Last November, Yale finalized a deal to 
pay just over $IOo,ooo for the two-acre lot 
at 63 Lock Street-an address that does not 
even lie within a current YPD patrol route. 
For now, it is vacant and overgrown, lit-
tered with bricks and broken bottles, and 
ringed by a sagging chain-link fence with 
holes cut into it. Public housing projects 
and a boarded-up brick building stand 
adjacent to the site, and the stone-walled 
expanse of Grove Street Cemetery shields it 
from the Yale campus irsel£ At dusk, sirens 
drown out the chimes of the carillon issu-
ing from Harkness Tower, just barely visi-
ble to the south. Except for the distant bus-
tle of a pickup basketball game, the block is 
empty. 

But when Perrotti talks about.the site's 
future, he articulates an idyllic vision of a 
bustling police station and community 
center-with the emphasis, of course, on 
community. He elaborates: "We're going to 
be right in the Dixwell community. We 
hope to · have some community meeting 
space in the new building, ~o the commu-
nity can come right to us. We want to facil-
itate tutoring by Yale students." He talks 
about youth athletic leagues, fixing broken 
windows, and getting rid of junk cars. He 
describes premature plans for community 
forums and block parties. He doesn't say 
much about muggings, stolen bikes, laptop 
theft, or breaches in dorm security though. 
When pressed, he shrugs, turns his palms 
upward, and explains, matter-of-facdy, 
"Partnering with the community solves 
more problems." 

T HE ROOTS OF THE YPD are found in the 
same kind of town-gown tensions that 
persist today. In September of 1894, two 
New Haven police officers ;,alked onto the 
Yale campus for the first time. This incur-
sion was, by all accounts, an outrage--a 
violation of an implicit code establishing 
the University as sacrosanct territory, 
exempt from the power of all external 
authorities. The police action had come in 
response to a rash of corpse thefts from 
New Haven cemeteries by Yale medical stu-
dents, culminating a period of general hos:-
tility bet'Ween cown and gown. It was by no 
means a goodwill gesture, and the two offi-
cers, Jim Donnely and Bill Wiser, came 
with the charge to subdue the student body 
and establish the city's policing authority 
on previously exempt territory. Wiser 
recorded those tense early days in his mem-
oirs. "No policemen before this time had 
ventured on these sacred grounds," he 
wrote, "and the campus had come to be 
considered a safe place of refuge for stu-
dents fleeing from the wrath of city police." 
Students reacted with expected resentment 
to this invasion of their "charmed and 
secret enclosure." They dashed with 
Donnely and Wiser over the restriction of 
practices like "tearing down the buildings 
for fire-wood" after football victories and 
"setting fire to the newly-erected electric 
light poles" that "shone into their rooms 
and kept them awake." 

Gradually, however, Donnely and 
Wiser saw their standing among students 
improve, and their role evolved according-
ly. No longer treated as insidious invaders, 
the officers shifted their focus from subdu-
ing students on campus (though the "booz-


**Title:  (Untitled)**
**Author: (Unknown)**
**Page number(s): 17-18**

ng habit" would remain a problem throughout their tenure) to 
:eeping outsiders away. To the University, this new cask proved an 
nfinitely more valuable service than the original. There was, 
1ccording to Wiser, no shortage of "vagrant peddlers, and other 
objectionable persons" who posed a threat to the well-being of the 
students in their charge. But, he boasts, "We impressed upon their 
minds the inadvisability of any future visits from them and their 
friends." Ultimately, these services proved valuable enough that the 
University persuaded Donnely and 
Wiser to resign from the New Haven 
Police Department and establish a pri-
vate police force on campus-the earli-
est incarnation of the YPD, with the 
explicit goal of keeping outsiders out. 

The move to Dixwell 
will force the YPD into w 
HEN 
CHIEF 
PERROTTI 
DISCUSSES 
POLICING, he peppers his sentences 
with words like "community," "willing-
ness," "caring," and "understanding." A 
wooden placard that occupies the center of 
his desk proclaims, "Respect is Mutual." 
Poised behind it, elbows on the surface and 
hands pressed together in front of his lips, 
Perrotti elaborates on the philosophy 
Far removed from these beginnings, 
the most recent revolution in the depart-
ment came in response to the Prince 
murder. At the time, the New Haven 
the role of community 
steward in a community 
that is not its own. 
Police Department was undergoing a transformation of its own 
under Chief Nick Pastore, who had taken its helm in 1990 and 
served unril1997. "Our strategy was to better engage the public. We 
faced issues head on with community policing, and Yale came on 
board," recounts Pastore, now a Police Policy Fellow at the Criminal 
Justice Policy Foundation and an outspoken advocate of the tactics 
of community policing. In subsequent years, guided by Pastore and 
then-YPo Chief Al Guyer, acrimony between the departments gave 
way to dose cooperation. "There was this symbiotic relationship 
that became a real friendship," Pastore continued. "We had com-
monality. Our vision was their vision." 

Now, the hour-to-hour functioning of both departments 
depends on constant communication and frequent collaboration. 
The YPD's dispatch system, run out of its Communications Center 
in Phelps Gate, is linked to the NHPD's, and the forces share 
APRIL 2002 
IB'C __ 
,... resources and information on a daily 
basis. Most ofYale, however, remains 
the ypo's domain, a swathe across 
the center of New Haven with 
other enclaves around the 
City-a total of 910 acres 
that includes Yale build-
athletic fields, a golf 
and the grow-
number of com-
in cruis-
ers, but recent 
years have seen a 
growing emphasis 
on bike cops-
there 
are 
five 
patrolling 
the 
behind the ypo's strategy: Involvement in neighborhoods and com-
munities-maintaining a constant presence in people's day-to-day 
lives-is the best way to reduce overall crime. The reality in which 
the YPO works, however, means that its version of this strategy looks 
considerably different than it would in New York City. Though it is 
primarily responsible for property owned by the University, con-
fronting crime at the source means focusing efforts more and more 
on areas outside the campus itself. Perrotti explains this idea with 
ease: "You have to have some positive involvement in the commu-
nity because there's no wall around Yale. You have to build a bal-
ance." The new Dixwell headquarters is a marquis development in 
this respect. 

Aside from "community," the phrase that Perrotti throws 
around most when discussing the move to Dixwell is "quality of 
life"-the core value of community policing. He explains, "In tra-
ditional policing, you focus on the big stuff. Here, it's a much more 
proactive approach, because we're focusing on quality of life issues." 
Perrotti offers a scenario to consider. There is a string of broken 
down cars on a block. The owners of the cars are not nec-1~~~ 
essarily breaking the law, but the cars give the impres-
] 
sion of neglect, disorder, and danger. That 
impression, according to the holistic systems 
approach of community policing, turns 
neighborhood epidemic of broken down 
cars into a police problem-one which 
demands preemptive action 
and perhaps a bit of courte-
ous but forceful persuasion. 

Perrotti has no shortage of 
alternate examples: "Take 
public 
intoxication. 
Most people don't want 
to walk down the 
street and be both-
ered by someone 
who has had too 
much to drink-
that's a quality of 
life 
1ssue 
too. 

Traffic violations, same thing ... It's a total 
strategy." 

This prospective level of police 
involvement in the Dixwell community 
goes along nicely with other University and 
city plans for the neighborhood. The near-
by Elm Haven public housing complex is 
being demolished in favor of a new mixed-
income development, and Yale has toyed 
with the idea of buying another adjacent 
lot for townhouse development. Pastore, 
for one, calls the move to Lock Street "a 
stroke of genius on the parr of the admin-
istration and the Yale Police Department. 
It's time for Yale to really get down with the 
issues of neighborhood living and make the 
neighborhood tranquil and stable." This 
intention, echoed by Perrotti, Yale's admin-
istration, and New Haven city government, 
is community policing in its purest form. 

With the Yale Police no longer simply a 
security force for University properties, the 
move to Dixwell will mack the culmination 
of a trend-one which will, if all goes 
according to planned, force the YPD into 
the role of community steward in a com-
munity which is not its own. 

A
T A PUBUC MEETING EARLIER this year, 
YPD Lieutenant Michael Patten was 
accused of being part of the "military arm 
of the Yale Corporation." The accusation is 
18 
one the YPD knows well, and 
which-wrapped up with sen-
sitive and sticky issues of race, 
class, and Yale's place in New 
Haven-it has had consider-
able experience trying to 
counter over the last several 
years. 

The most recent high 
proflle incident carne during a 
Yale Law School minority 
recruitment 
weekend 
last 
spring. At two AM on a week-
end night, several Yale police 
cars went in pursuit of two 
young men in" "baggy pants" 
who had attempted to steal an 
air conditioner. On Chapel 
Street, Harold McDougall, a 
black student who attended 
the event, and his host were 
leaving a party when a squad 
car stopped in the street next 
to them. Two officers got our 
and demanded 10 from the 
two.srudents: "I was in a brown jacket, an 
orange sweater, and khaki corduroys-char 
were nor baggy by the way," McDougall 
remembers. "And the cops .said, 'Yeah, 
yeah, that's the description.' What I later 
found out was that the description that 
they gave was 'men in baggy pants,' and 
that was all they needed to stop us and 
question us for 20 minutes." The eyewit-
ness' description did not mention race. 

The problems raised by the incident 
last spring ace not specific to New Haven; 
nor do they allow for easy blame to be cast 
on the police force. "There was consider-
able unrest from people of color who felt 
uniquely challenged,'' says Pastore of the 
period when he was NHPD chief. "Racial 
profiling was a huge issue on campus." 
Jelani Lawson, a 1996 graduate of Yale 
College who served as Ward 2 Alderman 
before leaving New Haven last year, recalls 
an undergraduate and aldermanic career 
marked by periodic harassment by the YPD. 
"Let's say I received less than the average 
deference accorded to members of the 
University community," he says. "In con-
crete terms, it means that I was asked for 10 
while entering college gates. It means that I 
was harassed while standing on a corner 
waiting to get a haircut. It means that I 
always had to have my Yale 10, because if I 
were for some reason stopped by the cops, 
I had to have my 'Get Out of Jail Free' 
card." 

This perception of rampant racial pro-
filing and mistreatment of actual and sus-
pected outsiders persists in the New Haven 
community, despite rhe YPD's fervent denial 
and ongoing efforts to counter it. Recently, 
the University voluntarily agreed to keep 
statistics on traffic stops around campus 
and submit the records to the Chief State's 
Attorney's office, a requirement of public 
police departments from which private 
departments are exempt. Those statistics, 
according to Highsmith, disprove claims of 
favoritism or profiling. Perrotti, when con-
fronted by this type of criticism, points to 
the tremendous diversity of the YPD--17% 
of officers are female, and a quarter ace 
racial minorities, far outstripping the 
national average. "We are a very diverse 
work force, and that is a tremendous bene-
fit, particularly when you're dealing with 
issues on the street," he claims. "We just 
don't have problems with race and gender. 
That reflects our values." 

Bur community activists have long 
dismissed this sort of claim as empty 
rhetoric. Emma Jones is a New Haven res-
ident who has fought for the establishment 
of an aU-citizen police review board since 
her son Malik was gunned down by police 
officers in 1997. As head of the Malik 
Organization, Jones says, "I have had a 
number of complaints, pads of paper where 
people shared that just because they were 
African-Americans or had a certain hair-
style or drove a certain car, Yale police--
and they seem to be worse than the New 
Haven police--gave them bogus rickets, or 
stopped them for no reason, or gave them 
motor-vehicle violations." Jones has met 
with Perrotti and other representatives of 
the YPD in the past, but claims that few of 
their promises have been reflected in 
action. Voicing a widely held belief, she 
charges, "They're shielded from any kind of 
scrutiny because it's Yale." Even Pastore, an 
ardent supporter of the YPD, acknowledges 
the ubiquity of this view. "Much of the 
community feels like they're still not 
engaged, like it's" -here, he slips into the 
tone of either mock reverence or impend-
ing doom that many New Haveners 
employ when referring to the University-
"s.rill Yale." Half-jokingly, Pastore contin-
ues, "If I assigned six undercover agents to 
Yale for six months, I would make more



**Title: The Yale Police Department in Dixwell**
**Author: Daniel Kurtz-Phelan**
**Page number(s): 19**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
narcotics arrests than I make in Dixwell in 
a year. When you put that in terms of inci-
dence of crime, it would be far higher on 
campus than in any neighborhood." He 
adds, of course, "That's not to say that I 
ever would." But the point resonates in a 
neighborhood like Dixwell, and this reso-nance wiU be something to contend with as 
the perceived agent of privilege, wealth, 
and whiteness moves its forces into a poor 
and almost exclusively black community. 


NOERNEATH 
THE 
DISCUSSION of 
"cooperation," "understanding," and 
"engagement," community policing is 
about one thing: the perception of safety. 
Taking that perception seriously, in fact, 
has been the greatest success of the strategy, 
and one that Perrotti and the YPO whole-
heartedly adopt. "Even if people are safe, if 
they don't feel safe, then it's a problem," 
Perrotti acknowledges, "Sometimes percep-
tion is reality." 

In that respect, the success of the YPD 
in Dixwell will have as much to do with 
factors outside of its control as with its own 
behavior. Above all, however, it will require 
that the YPO and the University as a whole 
take seriously the sense of injustice and 
rnisueacmenc rather than sticking by num-
bers and complaint records alone. In the 
past, Perrotti has been known to refuse 
interviews about racial profiling accusa-
tions, and the University's often vapid offi-
cial rhetoric remains unconvincing to large 
portions of New Haven. But in communi-
ty policing, as Pastore says, "If it's a percep-
tion, it m ust be dealt with." 

Over the course of the last decade, the 
University's heightened interest in the city 
has stemmed from the belief that what is 
good for New Haven is good for Yale. As 
the empty lot in Dixwell transforms into 
the headquarters of the YPO, the neighbor-
hood must begin to believe that the reverse 
is also true. As Pastore cautions, "When 
Yale opens up its doors on Lock Street, it 
has to remember that it's a visitor and it 
should act like a visitor who wants to be 
welcomed." 

II1J 
Dani~l Kurtz-Ph~/an, a junior in B"k~ley 
Co/kg~. is ~ditor-in-chiif o/TNJ. 
APRIL 2002


**Title: Can Yale's sexual harassment policy avert disaster?**
**Author: Emily Breunig**
**Page number(s): 20**

By Emily Breunig 
THE NEW jouRNAL


**Title: Untitled**
**Author:  Not specified**
**Page number(s): 21**

'I 
Y FRIEND COMMITTED suicide 
ll a year ago, although no one 
~ew it was suicide at the time. 
Julie died on April 3o--found on 
the floor of her Massachussetts 
Institute ofTechnology dormroom 
by her roommate-and nobody 
quite knew why. I went to Boston 
for a student-organized service and 
listened to people say great things 
about her character and life. I 
spoke to a man who had met her 
at a debate a week before her 
death; he could not comprehend 
the fact that someone so alive 
had just died. I headed home, 
still unable to accept that 
Julie was gone. I was scared 
to sleep alone, afraid that 
one night my heart would 
stop like hers did, without 
warning. 

On June 26, everyone's 
perspective changed. The 
coroners ruled her death a suicide by 
cyanide poisoning. The press did not seem 
surprised; Julie Carpenter was, after all, a 
chemical engineering major at MIT-which 
meant that she had access to aU sorts of poi-
sons-and her housemate had lit herself on 
fire and died from the burns just a year 
before. But I held fast to the idea that she 
had mixed up pills, intenrung to take No-
Ooz instead and discovering her mistake 
too late. I tried to resign myself to a sort of 
Zen acceptance of the fact that we'd never 
really know what happened. That worked 
until August. 

On August 9, the Boston Globe ran a 
front page story detailing an entirely differ-
ent scenario. "In the months before her sui-
cide in April," reporter Patrick Healy 
wrote, 
"Massachusetts 
Institute 
of 
Technology sophomore Julie M. Carpenter 
was stalked and harassed by a love-struck 
freshman and then endured an excruciating 
campus inquiry that initially failed to stop 
him." I had visited Julie the previous 
November. At the time, the student had 
been quietly and intensely attracted to her. 
Even though she made it clear to him that 
she was not interested, he still followed her 
through the halls, slept outside her door, 
and accessed emails she had written to her 
boyfriend. Distressed by the relentless 
attention, she finally complained to her 
student house committee in January. The 
committee stalled for a month while the 
harassment continued. 

Finally, the case 
was handed over to the Office of the Dean 
for Student Life, and the harasser was 
moved to another dorm. But it was two 
more months before the administration 
officially ruled that Julie had actually been 
harassed, and her assailant's punishment 
was minimal: He was required to arrend 
three therapy sessions, read three books 
about trauma, and write an essay on harass-
ment. Despite everything, he would be 
allowed to reapply to live in Julie's house 
the following year. 

Five days later, Julie 
killed herself. 

The connections between the sexual 
harassment case and Julie's death are 
srrong. Her boyfriend's father stated in a 
letter to MIT that "everyone who knew Julie 
21 



**Title: Silence and Sexual Harassment at Yale**
**Author: Emily Bennig**
**Page number(s): 22-23**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
well
believes the ruling in
the harassment claim ... was the trig-
gering event in her apparent suicide."
Then again, a college friend insisted that
Julie was stronger than that, and would not
have killed herself over a mishandled
harassment charge. I disagree. Julie was
stalked for over four months while MIT
failed over and over again to do anything
about it. Even in an environment of sup-
posed awareness, institutional safeguards
failed miserably. And that led me to won-
der: Could this happen at a similar institu-
tion? Could it happen at Yale?
No one knows how many women have
been harassed or assaulted because few
complaints are made official.
You may
never know who they are unless a close
friend happens to be one, but even then
silence can prevail; it took nearly four
months before the circumstances sur-
rounding Julie's death were known to any-
one save family and close friends at MIT.
The rest of us read about it in the paper.
Even at Yale, the silence that surrounds sex-
ual harassment conceals the staggering
number of women who have lived through
it.

N 1999, A YALE FRESHMAN NAMED
SARAH was sexually harassed by a junior
professor. A series of comments directed at
her both in and out of class culminated in
his asking Sarah to talk with him privately
about his teaching style. When she refused
to return with him to his apartment, his
comments grew increasingly inappropriate and finally
alone. "He was in his early
thirties, big on gun rights," she told me.
"That was a large contributing factor in my
decision to press charges. He owned lots of
guns, and I didn't like that he knew where
I lived."
Distressed and unable to work, Sarah
spoke to the dean of her residential college,
who contacted Professor Peter Parker, con-
vener of Yale's Sexual
Harassment
Grievance Board, and Dean of Student
Affairs Betty Trachtenberg, -a Board mem-
ber. Sarah did not have the option of pre-
senting her case to Yale College's discipli-
nary tribunal, the Executive Committee,
since
complaints
brought
to
the
Committee must involve only undergradu-
ates. In 1970, when a student first formal-
ly accused a faculty member of harassment,
the University created the Grievance Board
to handle cases like Sarah's.
Technically, the Board's function is
advisory rather than punitive. Board mem-
ber Brian Yolles, an undergraduate, empha-
sizes the Board's role in mediation.
"Ideally, everything can be solved informal-
ly," says Yolles.
"This is tough to bring
before a lot of people and generally not
what the accuser wants."
Frequently, a
student simply needs the Board's assurance
that what took place was harassment. This
validation can go a long way. "The institu-
tion is behind her-she knows he is wrong
and there is no way he can justify his
empowered-this has happened quite a few
times." Board members are quick to point
out the expediency with which a complaint
is handled, especially in potentially danger-
ous situations. When a student lodges a
complaint with the Board, the accused is
informed the same day, and forbidden to
contact the accuser. Any retaliatory acts are
treated as separate incidents.
After speaking with Sarah, Parker and
Trachtenberg met with her instructor and
warned him to keep his distance from her.
He was told to leave a public space should
he find her there and to avoid coming close
to her in any circumstantial meeting. They
advised Sarah to be careful when walking
alone.
Sarah remembers the situation as
extremely difficult. She says she felt "silly"
the whole time. "I wasn't raped, wasn't
attacked," she told me. "You feel like you
should deal with it. You feel silly, like a
whiny girl who couldn't deal." The Board
did offer some help. "Peter Parker told me
that given the situation of power, there
were certain rules, he was supposed to act
certain ways, and what he was doing was
egregious. He made me feel like I had done
the right thing," she said. Yet Sarah feels
that the Board could have done more after
the initial complaint was handled. At the
time, Sarah did not even know that the
Board had official student members whom
she could approach for information and
advice. "There was no particular amount of
follow-up," she says. "I continued to feel
unsafe.
But the situation was handled
pretty quickly-within a week. . . .
Nothing awful happened." In the end,
Sarah did not decide to lodge a formal
complaint. Her instructor was leaving
at the end of the semester, and the
incident was noted on his record.


CASES LIKE SARAH'S AND JULIE'S
illustrate that silence
may be the biggest
threat to resolving sexual harass-
ment issues. Confidentiality is healthy and
necessary for a victim, but potentially detri-
mental to the community as a whole. A
confused, frantic student who brings a con-
cern to the Grievance Board may find a
solution, but her public silence inadver-
tently masks the fact that such incidents
take place on the Yale campus in the first
place. Such silence perpetuates the belief
that sexual harassment and assault do not
occur here--leaving victims feeling isolated
and alone.
The members of the Grievance Board
expressed frustration with the lack of
knowledge about harassment on campus,
citing ignorance as the largest obstacle to
the Board's effectiveness. "This year has
been incredibly uneventful, which can be a
double-edged sword, as I believe that peo-
ple are reluctant to report cases," said
Yolles.
As Stephanie Schmid, a student
Board member, stated, "Reporting, if done
properly, makes people feel less alone and it
encourages more people to feel comfortable
enough to come forward."
Despite the dramatic nature of Julie's
death and the prolonged press coverage,
none of the Board members I spoke to
knew of it. Trachtenberg stressed the gen-
eral inaccessibility of this type of informa-
tion, "We can't possibly know everything
that goes on, and a little bit of knowledge,
some from one source, some from another,
is a dangerous thing. We just don't know
what takes place. We know case studies,
but we clinically can't open a file." While
communication sometimes exists between
individual administrators, professional
confidentiality must be maintained in spe-
cific cases-another ver-
sion of the double-edged sword.
The Board members do recognize a
need for some transparency in the system.
But, as Trachtenberg notes, the mandatory
confidentiality is restricting.
"We give a
pamphlet every year to each student, but a
particular case involving particular students
we can't talk about. And so we're left with
the reputation of not doing anything," she
said. "We cannot say that we had twelve
satisfied customers and their cases were
such and such."
For her part, Sarah suggests that
friendlier forms of advertisement, like
stickers and posters, might soften the
Board's intimidating image.
Describing
her own reluctance to lodge a complaint,
Sarah told me, "You feel as though it has to
be a bad situation and clearly defined.
You're unsure of yourself. You're not going
to go and say that you're unsure--boards
have old white guys on them."
The Board acknowledges these diffi-
culties. Trachtenberg emphasizes that the
Board frequently discusses its effectiveness
as well as the community's perception of it.
"We look at ourselves critically to see how
we're working. I'm not exaggerating about
this. We're always looking." But with the
constant tension between silence and pre-
vention, the only course available may be
vigilance. At MIT, careful vigilance within
the institutional framework might have
saved Julie. "Everything is handled here
until the student is comfortable,"
Yolles said, "but I'm sure people at MIT
would have said the same thing. There's a
bureaucracy ... students often get caught up
in that. Real life moves at rapid paces."
Julie and Sarah both courageously
came forward with their complaints-a
step many victims do not take. For Sarah,
the process was a difficult one despite the
speed with which Yale responded to her
complaint. For Julie, this difficulty became
unbearable when MIT, through rulings and
delays, made her feel like her complaint
was not legitimate and failed to guarantee
that the harassment would not continue.
No institution can eradicate harassment,
but without a system that eradicates a vic-
tim's feelings of inadequacy and isolation,
the next Yale Sarah could end like Julie.
Sarah is a pseudonym.
Emily Bennig is a junior in Berkeley College.



**Title: The Red Hot Pony Express**
**Author: Christopher Heaney**
**Page number(s): 25-27**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
T HE LADIES ENTER. ADJUST THEIR EYES to the dim lighting, and 
take their places in the horseshoe of chairs and tables around 
the dance floor. The college girls in the crowd, Saturday night war-
riors in bright tops, black panes, and slathered glitter, sit down 
quickly, and nervously order Mike's Hard Lemonade. The 30-and-
older set is more boisterous, with permed hair and half-buttoned 
denim blouses. They saunter in and belly up to the bar for an open-
ing round of cheap beer. By the time they take their sears, they've 
strapped a couple of beers on and are ready for the show to begin. 
It's Saturday night at Toad's Place, and the Red Hot Pony Express is 
about to leave the station. 

Toad's is infamous for its late night dance parties, semi-exclu-
sive affairs where men and women with proper 10 can grind their 
blues away to remixed hip-hop and strobed lighting. Once or twice 
a semester, things change. Courtesy of the Red Hot Pony Express, 
Toad's sheds irs dance hall skin and devolves into a raucous mess of 
a strip dub, where enthusiastic men in G-strings and boors will rub 
up against a woman's leg only if she's offered him a crisp dollar bill 
first. On nights when the Red Hot Pony Express is in town, no mat-
ter what their age, no matter whether they're leaving behind a high-
paying job, a sink full of rushes, or a sociology paper, these women 
squeeze sexual liberation until it bursts. 

w ITH THE EXCEPTION OF ToAD'S BOUNCERS and bartenders, 
tonight I'm the only man in a sea of more than a hundred 
women. In this sexually charged atmosphere, I'm a non-entity. I'm 
not getting onstage to shake my booty; I'm watching just like the 
rest of them. I sit at a table next to the stage with seven women who 
spend most of their time talking like I'm not there. Our quarters are 
tight, which keeps the experience vivid and dose, especially when I 
have to scoot over to allow my neighbor ample room for a lap dance 
later in the show. 

To my left, th,ree Yale students are psyching themselves up for 
their first male strip show. They're dressed for a night out, but are a 
little too put together for the lewd atmosphere. They're here for the 
full experience, but shy away from <liscussing the nearly naked men. 
For "health reasons," they're going to forgo the lap dances tonight. 
They will spend much of the show with their hands over their 
mouths, giggling and asking each other, "Did you see that?" One of 
their number is securely righteous when she tells me that she thinks 
it's the lewdest thing ever. (After the show, she changes her tune and 
says she'd certainly go again.) For now, though, the suitemates ner-
vously joke about the townified nature of the crowd. The New 
Yorker of the bunch leans over to me and advises, "Make sure you 
write down how scary the women are." 

"Which women?" I ask. 
"All of them." 
She could very well be tallcirig about 
the rest of the table, if by scary she means 
intent on seeing a man in a G-string. To my 
right are a pair of gravelly-voiced, tightly-
coiffed 40-year olds who work for Yale on 
weekdays. Although they've had strippers 
for birthdays, they've never been to a strip 
show and are enthusiastic. Their cameras 
will guarantee lap dances later in the 
evening. 

They've come with one of the final 
women at the table, a petite Yale undergrad 
they work with during the week. She sits 
across from me with her friend, another 
student who's been to a strip show before. 
They are visibly excited, loud, ready to 
embrace the endless parade of flesh. They 
will match the strippers' enthusiasm, 
scream for scre.am, grind for grind. When 
one of the girls gets her "birthday" lap 
dance, the stripper will cradle her face in 
his hands and gleefully yell, "C'mere, 
baby!" For her part, she will grab his ass as 
tight as anyone else does that evening. 

Everyone at the table, mys!!lf included, 
has a different reason for being here 
tonight. Its "the experience," "my friend's 
birthday," "a writing assignment," "to sup-
port a friend." These reasons, though indi-
vidually defensible, ignore the fact that it's 
8:45, the show was supposed to begin 15 

T HE EMCEE JOGS OUT TO the middle of 
the dance floor, drawing a few cheers 
of relief from the audience. He's dressed 
casually but smartly, in crisp blue jeans, a 
right silver shirt, and a black leather blazer. 
He's a smooth character and good at relax-
ing the nervous first-rimers into the enthu-
siastic sexual aggression shared by the rest 
of the audience. He hawks Niagara, 
Viagra's carbonated fruit cousin, smoothly 
assuring, "When these guys get you hot 
and horny, do whatever you want, cause 
you're the ones in control tonight." 

"How many girls here are just plain 
horny?" he asks. 

"Take it offi" screams someone in the 
audience. This is the battle cry of the 
evening, raised by the crowd when some-
one on the dance floor is doing too much 
teasing and not enough stripping. T he 
emcee's doing well, and the momentum is 
building. 

He laughs and says, "Okay, my name's 
Brett. Now you have to scream out your 
name on the count of three. One, two, 
three!" 

The women respond most heartily 
where I'm sitting, dubbed the "Sexy 
Erection Section" by Brett. Apparently I'm 
surrounded by "season ticket holders," 
ladies who have been to shows before and 
have mastered the proper "fold and stuff" 
technique for the placement of dollar bills. 
The first timers don't get off so easily. 
"Tonight you are all fucking virgins," Brett 
sarcastically intones. The season dcket 
holders cheer. "Tonight, ladies, this is your 
one true opportunity to be a virgin." 

The 40-year-old "virgin" to my right 
leans over and mutters to me, "Oh God, I 
gotta go home." 

"Okay, ladies, are you ready to see 
your first naked man?" 

Even the "virgins" join in as the crowd 
yells a forceful affirmative. The momentum 
of female sexuality breaks for a moment 
when three women behind 
me start yelling guttural 
"Yeah!"'s at Brett. Brett does 
a double take. The testos-
teronic irony is clear: 
T hey're playing the 
alpha male at the 
Kitty Kat Club, 
loud, abrasive, and 
confused 
as 
to 

**Title: The Red Hot Pony Express**
**Author: Christopher Henry**
**Page number(s): 28-29**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
. whether they're cheering for their favorite 
quarterback or favorite stripper. 
Brett snaps his fingers, regains the 
crowd's attention, and silkily introduces 
"Marky Mark," AKA "Fireman Joe," AKA 
"the New Haven Fire Marshall, here to 
inspect the 'penal' code." 


Marky Mark runs out of the wings like 
a pro-wrestler. His entrance music is a 
crackly nursery rhyme chanted over a 
plinky music box melody. "He's a little fire-
man, he's a little fireman, everyone knows 
he has a great big hose." 


Barely 5'6" in boots, Mark is indeed 
little, but ·makes up for his height with a 
chest and shoulders that threaten to pop 
out of his yellow flame-retardant suit. A red 
fire helmet and coke bottle glasses top the 
outfit. This is Mark's act, his gimmick and 
hook. Ev~ry stripper has one, whether it's as 
a cowboy, a policeman,. or a fireman. 


Mark's hook is unique in that it taps the 
self-deprecating vein of the striptease, He's 
not just up there to strip; the face he puts 
on is one of good times, and he'll be 
damned if he leaves the dance floor with-
our making everyone smile. 


Mark reaches into his pants and pulls 
out a foot and a half length of fire hose. He 
fondles it in time to the song for a moment 
before it fires a jet of colored confetti from 
the nozzle. The women at my table burst 
out laughing. The ice is broken, and the 
show starts in earnest as the house's joyous 
cheers are drowned out by the muscular 
techno standard, "Y'all Ready For This?" 


Mark tears off his jacket, revealing a 
grotesquely built body that strains under a 
white elastic singlet. His bulk is no hin-
drance to his dance moves, however, which 
squirt out of him like hair gel from a bot-
de, setting the evening's standard at an 
impossibly high level. Amidst sidles and 
spins, he pulls off the singlet and heavy 
pants, temporarily keeping the white briefs 
and heavy boots where they are. His solid 
bronze body is unencumbered enough to 
leap through the air and land in a roll that 
pops him back up bopping. 


Mark brings the crowd to the cusp of 
panic before he executes the finishing 
move. He cocks his head and milks the 
moment, as if he can't hear the screams of 
"Take it offi" He grins, rips off the briefs, 
and poses there in all his green G-string 
glory. He swells his chest in happy pride as 
the crowd begins to wave dollar bills like 
green flags at a bull. 


He bounces over to his first lady, a 
wary college brunette whose head is framed 
by her friends' money. Her friends burst 
into cheers when Mark leaps into her lap 
and guides her hands to his rear, exhorting 
her to "Squeeze! Squeeze!" He takes hold of 
her hair and begins to gyrate, grind, and 
pump his hips with convincing sincerity. 


The lap dance lasts for two or three fero-
cious minutes, during which the girlfriends 
scuff the G-string with bills, which give 
Mark's modest package an ironic layer of 
virile padding-so virile, in fact, that he'll 
later have to transfer the wad to his boot to 
make room. 


Mark's performance is clearly meant to 
be rough and sexual, but there's a moment 
at which he becomes oddly sweet. He dis-
mounts, leans over, and gives the brunette 
a soft peck on the cheek, a move the strip-
pers repeat all night long. She looks up at 
him and smiles. This unexpected affection 
lasts for only an instant before Mark breaks 
the spell and twitches his tanned buttocks 
over to the next woman. 


photos by Mary-catherine Millkey 


A 
THEME BEGINS TO DEVELOP in Brett's 
shtick between performers. He jogs 
out after Mark's maestro routine and asks, 
·~y women getting married tomorrow?" 


A suspicious third of the 100-woman 
crowd cheers, rallying around marital plans 
that may or may not exist. Brett takes the 
30 brides-to-be in perfect stride. The Red 
Hot Pony Express attracts the marrying, 
married, and temporarily unmarried co 
their shows on a regular basis. Brett turns 
to the openly wed women to offer their 


--- Page 29 ---

counterparts some timely advice. 


"Don't do it!" yell the unrestrained 
wives to the college students. 


"D'gh , B 
"0 
~ t, 
rett says. 
o you want co 
know what SINGLE stands for? Stay 
Intoxicated Nightly, Get Laid Everyday." 


Another witty repartee between Brett 
and the crowd doesn't go as smoothly, but 
speaks to the same concerns. "Hey ladies, 
what's the difference between a tornado 
and a marriage?" 


A witty gal behind me slurs, "They 
both drive you crazy!" Her friends laugh at 
the bon mot. 


"They both drive you crazy ... " Brett 
mulls this over for a moment. "No that's 
not right. The answer is "nothing, 'cause in 
the beginning there's a lor of sucking and 
blowing and in the end you lose your 
house." 


Again and again over the course of the 
evening, Brett's jokes and the interactions 
between women and strippers riff on the 
marriage theme, if only ro make the lap-
dances and stripteases seem that much 
wilder and more forbidden. The sexuality 
gets positively violent at moments, quire 
often at the woman's prodding; the strip-
pers seem warier of the fine line between 
APRIL 2002 
sexy forcefulness and aggression. Someone 
behind me screams at a stripper, "Come on 
baby, right here! I got a whole pocketful! 
Get your ass over here!" She has five lap 
dances with him, each one a violent ride 
that leaves her partner with red scratches 
on his ass. 


By the time Brett announces the final 
little roo long. 
stripper, an t8-
year-old sailor, the 
crowd is hurting. 
It's 
unclear 
whether the ladies 
have anything left 
to give after two 
visceral hours of 
screaming, waving 
bills, and getting 
hauled up on the 
shoulders 
of 
ridiculously 
ripped men. The 
applause is weak 
and could be as 
much for the end 
of the show as for 
the stripper. The 
undergrads at my 
table 
have 
expressed an urge 
ro do their own 
dancing. 


T he 
show's gone on a 
Brett brings two beautiful undergrads 
onstage and seats them across from each 
other. A third chair, upon which rests a 
cane and top hat, is between them. The 
well-dressed girls, one blonde, the other a 
brunette, look nervous, bur share a smile 
when Brett growls, "He's your last naked 
man ... he's an officer and a gentleman ... 
his name is Corey!" 


The theme from Top Gun blazes over 
the sound system and Corey, 26 years old 
and a gym owner, strides into the spotlight. 


The over-30 crowd goes wild. They leap 
from their seats and join the collective wail 
of the music's screaming guitars. At 6'6," 
and blonde, blue-eyed, tan, and dressed 
head to roe in officer's whites, he's as close 
ro their dreams as they come. He marches 
past the lucky pair, pivots on his right foot, 
and stops at the edge of the stage, still at 
rigid attention. Corey snaps his right arm 
into a serious and sincere salute, oblivious 
to the cheering and catcalling crowd 
beneath him. 


Corey brings his arm back down and 
the music changes again, this time to Top 
Gun's canonical anthem, "Take My Breath 
Away." Corey stands rigid for a moment 
more, then melodramatically sways, a 
lover's swoon, towards his onstage girl-
friends. He rushes over to the blonde, gath-
ers her in his arms, and lifts her up as if she 
were as light as a feather. Corey looks at her 
sweetly. She puts her arms around his neck. 
And they spin once. Twice. Just like in the 
movtes. 


I freeze. I'm not the only one. All the 
cheering that had seemed so sexual, so deri-
sive, and so visceral, suddenly becomes 
everything I thought a striptease wasn't. 


Yes, a lap dance literally beats you over the 
head with sexuality. Yes, the money's roo 
damn good for these strippers to be in it for 
the love. But something happens in the 
exchange between these paid men and lib-
erated women that deserves to be under-
stood. A woman might come for rhe for-
bidden pleasure of paying a stranger to 
shower them with physical attention, but at 
the end of almost every lap dance, there's a 
gentle kiss that brings it all right back to 
romance, however superficial. It's the per-
fect relationship: three minutes of hot sex 
and sweet nothings with no messy break-
up. 


Not all of the women are touched by 
this sentimental moment. Some are laugh-
ing, and some women left Toad's an hour 
ago. But for the women who find sexuality 
and romance watching a suip show, who 
imagine themselves both in Corey's bed 
and in his arms, this Red Hot Pony Express 
is really something else. No wonder this 
place is packed. 


lEI] 
Chnstophn- H~anry is a junior in Timothy 
Dwight Co/kg~. 



**Title: Ridden Curriculum**
**Author: Blake Wilson**
**Page number(s): 30**

IF YOU PEER BEHIND THE IRON DOORS OF ONE OF YALE's secret 
societies on any given Thursday or Sunday night, you won't 
find 15 white men chortling at the world over cigars and brandy. In 
face, you will see a picture right out of a college admissions view-
book: Sirting around the dinner table will be a black man, a Latina, 
a South Asian woman, several Jews, and a few roken WASPs. They 
will be journalists, athletes, intellectuals, and activists; some will be 
gay, some will be Christian, and there will be at least one represen-
tative of Yale's rarest minority, the conservative. They are the new 
faces of the Yale elite, but in its old home. Within their halls they 
enjoy all the ancient trappings of mystery and luxury; they are 
served dinner by a staff and study in a private library. And among 
the privileges that they do not share with you is an educational and 
a social experience that Yale's best have tasted in one form or anoth-
er for over 150 years. 


I 
HAVE ALWAYS HAD A PRYING INTEREST IN SKUll and Bones and 
its younger siblings. After last year's tap night left me unaffili-
ated, my curiosity intensified and soured. But my interest in the 
societies as educa.cional institutions really sprung our of the uncer-
tain days after September 11. I was involved in a number of efforts 
to bring together students of different cultural backgrounds and 
political convictions tO talk about the attacks, and I found again 
and again that the gulfs between students' perspectives were too 
wide to bridge constructively in a public forum. The debate could 
not be civil. I realized thac the obstacles preventing dialogue were 
more personal than political, but ironically they belonged more to 
a public than a private conversation. The secret societies were, I 
began to suspect, a possible solution. 

30 

Secret societies are social experiments. Fifteen juniors from dif-
ferent backgrounds, who have distinguished themselves in different 
walks of Yale life, are thrown together in an environment structured 
to bring about meaningful interaction and self-reflection. After 
three years of building friendships and making names for them-
selves, about ten percent of every Yale class is chosen at the end of 
its junior spring to be a part of one or another of these groups. 
There are six societies with tombs, and a more fluid roster that meet 
in other spaces, following the original model with varying levels of 
seriousness. The shroud of each society's rituals, and the pro~ 
for its initiates that those rituals concal, differ from ball to hall and 
from rented bouse to borrowed room. But three things are almost 
universally shared: an emphasis on honest debate, candid autobiog-
raphy, and seaecy. 


Members liken the intensity of the social climate inside their 
halls to rhat of the lace-night discussions they had with friends and 
roommates when they first came to Yale. This may be chalked up to 
the excitement of a new environment and new friends, but the 
depth and the candor of society conversations seem to be staked 
upon the other trappings of the experience. "More than secret, 
maybe [societies] are just private, .. one member cold me. Without 
years to develop crusting friendships, members of a society are 
thrown into intimate contact. The secrecy creates a safe environ-
ment, and the oral autobiographies given by each member in most 
societies deepen the bonds betweeo stUdents quickly. Not all mem-
bers are equally enthusiastic about the biographies, though: They 
last as many as five hoW'S -and can be Yehides for .narcissism or exhi-
bitionism as easily as they can promote understanding. 


Complementing political and intellectual debate with an opponu-



**Yale's Secret Societies**
**Author: Blake Wilson**
**Page number(s): 31-32**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
nity to learn what experiences have informed opposing perspectives 
should be a valuable exercise. But one society member expressed his 
doubt that the message really sinks in. "All our life we've learned just 
to judge things on the surface," he told me, "and I think that's 
tough to break down in just a year." 

t... !I ULTICULTURALISM AND A CERTAIN AMOUNT OF democratic guilt 
l'l,.. have crawled under even the thickest and most conservative 
skins, so that the principal function of many societies has come to 
be the exploration of difference. This was by no means always so. 
art. ... We believe that such studies and pursuits develop 
the best affections of the heart, and the highest powers of 
the intellect, and afford a foundation for friendships 
which are cemented by elevating the character of 
thoughts, and by giving a decidedly tone to the finer senti-
ments of the soul. 

Mack describes how as the liberal arts were folded into Yale's acad-
emic curriculum, and as Scroll and Key became an established and 
wealthy institution, the function, if never the ideals or the rituals, 
Throughout much of their 
history, secret societies, as 
well as the University itself, 
have exerted a homogenizing 
force. Eighty years ago, Yale 
was a much smaller place, 
with fewer extracurricular 
activities in which students 
The original atmosphere 
of Bones and Keys was 
much more that of Dead 
Poets Society than the 
New World Order. 
of the society changed. Scroll and Key began to fund aca-
demic prizes, scholarships, and contribute financially to 
Yale in other ways, establishing a pattern that other soci-
eties have followed. At the same time, the new curriculum 
of liberal arts a Ia cart~ was perceived as a threat to the 
holistic autodidacticism ofYale's 19TH century education. 
Scroll and Key perpetuated the older, gentlemanly intel-
could excel. There was a dear ladder of popularity and accom-
plishment that could be climbed, with Skull and Bones looming at 
the top and the other tomb societies just below. This, at least, is the 
caricature drawn by F. Scott Fitzgerald and by Owen Johnson in 
Stover at Yale. The "best men" began their senior years as leaders and 
strong characters on campus; they left as Bonesmen. 

But the origins of the secret society system belie both its cur-
rent appearance and the role it seems to have played in Yale's least 
democratic days. Skull and Bones was founded in 1832, and Scroll 
and Key a decade later. At the time, Yale's academic curriculum 
consisted mostly of classical languages, mathematics, and the phys-
ical sciences. The rest of a liberal education was extracurricular and 
largely student run, and the organs that provided it were the sopho-
more, junior, and senior societies, the debating and honors organi-
zations, and the private student libraries of Linonia and Brothers in 
Unity. It is unsurprising that this collegiate atmosphere produced 
exclusive senior societies dedicated to debate, fraternity, and intel-
lectual ideals. The original atmosphere of 
Bones and Keys was much more that of 
D~ad Poet's Soci~ty than the New World 
Order. 

Maynard Mack's History of Scro/J and 
Kry describes the heady idealism and the 
activities of those early days with more 
detail than one would expect in a text avail-
able to the public. Scroll and Key was a lit-
erary, dramatic, and debating society, where 
students declaimed original poetry and 
drank whisky punch in a rented room with 
velvet-draped walls. In his book, Mack 
quotes an extended passage from the pream-
ble to the society's constitution: 

The love of ideal beauty is the 
peculiar distinction of a noble 
mind; that it is wise therefore to 
cherish an enthusiasm for perfect 
forms of grace, whether seen in the 
works of literature, science, or 
APRIL 2.002. 

lectual culture and continued to instill its qualities in the 
changing student body. Building up the Society had given way to 
conserving a culture. 

The demographics of the societies, especially the oldest and 
best-established ones, never quite kept pace with those of the 
University. Until World War II, the societies were dominated by 
white students, mostly from prep-schools, often Yale and secret 
society legacies. By the late nineteen-sixties, though, most of the 
societies were swept up in the democratic spirit of the time-which 
Mack refers to as "the recent unpleasantness." They began to admit 
students of color and women. In the early 1990S, Skull and Bones 
and Wolf's Head were the last two major societies to go co-ed. But 
the hyper-diverse character of the societies today is recent and hard 
won-a fact still on the minds of minority students within them. 

The guidelines for choosing the next tap class differ from soci-
ety to society, but the taps have historically run through organiza-
tions. The editor of the Daily News might have been all but guar-
anteed a place in Skull and Bones for much of its history, but today 


**Working at Walgreens**
**Author:  MaHhaw Schnaldar-Mayarson**
**Page number(s): 33**

12:04 AM, January 22 
I walk into the new Walgreens, a shade of gray just lighter than 
death. Saccharine radio pop-rock-hip-hop blares from unseen 
speakers. This week's specials scream from all sides. 
'Could I have an application please?' I ask the cashier. He pulls 
one out from under the desk and smiles slightly. He knows some-
thing. I ask him about this shift. It's 4 PM co 12 AM paving the way 
for the graveyard shift, 12 AM to 8 AM. 
I figure that's where I want to be. Halfway berween New 
Haven gheuoes and Yale-New Haven Hospital, there's gona be 
interesting stuff going on at 4 AM under these fluorescent lighrs. 
But will I get shot? 
"Well, yeah, if the bullet's got your name on ir. .. " 

2:00 PM, January 29 
Having returned the application and gotten the call I was waiting 
for, I show up for the "computer test." The questions on the test are 
strictly co ensure that I am right for Walgreens and Walgreens is 
right for me; it will be helpful only ifl am completely truthful. 
The first few questions have to do with how many crimes I've 
committed and how recendy. Then I move on to the drug section. 
"Walgreens understands that it is typical in American society co 
experiment with drugs. However, Walgreens is not inrerested in hir-
ing any addictS." 
The next screen is blum: "What kind of items have you stolen 
from your employer(s) in the past 24 months?" The choices include: 
{a) Food, candy, chips, etc. 
{c) COs, hair dryers, records, etc. 
(f) Cars, jewelry, etc. 
. 
To supplement: "What would you say is the total cash value of 
the items you've stolen from your employer(s) in the past 24 
months?" the options range <$J to >$100,000. 
Actual Walgreens employees come onto the computer screen. 
They tell me what they like best and worst. They like the ~­
raderie best. A chipper young woman intones that the most diffi-
cult thing to get used to is angry customers; she looks pretty angry 
herself. 

APRIL 2002 

Finally, the crucial 
test. A video of a cus-
tomer is to be shown, 
and I am to respond as 
I would m reality. A 
reddish, 
drooping 
woman in her 40s 
materializes. "Yesterday 
they told 
me 
chat 
they'd have my photos 
today. Now you tell me 
they're not here. I'll kill 
you if you tell me co 
come back tomorrow!" 
The 
following 
week l have an inter-
view. Afrer five mmutes 
of questions, my future 
boss sighs, "Well, I see no reason not to hire you. So, pending your 
passing a drug test, you're hired." She's clearly elated to be working 
with me, and we shake hands. 

9:00 AM, February 4 
A trainee watches three videos before beginning employment at the 
Walgreens on York Street, where Parking Is Limited To 60 Minutes 
Or Your Car is Towed. One of them is called "So You're Starting a 
New Job." 
It's the best by far. 
The 'host' is a man named John Astin. You may remember him 
from such films as G~t to Know ~ur Rabbit, /GUn Tomatoo Eat 
Franu! and Supmonsur, and as a leader of a Buddhist sect in Santa 
Monica, or a visiting professor at Johns Hopkins University. But 
we've all <>een him before in the nightmares of our collective sub-
conscious. He has smiling jowls that seem to curl and crinkle, and 
a strange rwink.Je in his eyes, like Vince Fontaine in Gm:u, or a hol>t 
on a variety show gone sour. 



**Title: Untitled**
**Author: Matthew Schneider-Mayerson**
**Page number(s): 34-35**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
He offers some tips for starting my 
new job. Tips, he reminds me, that will 
help me throughout my life. Like "Watch 
your appearance!," "In your aisle, gets a 
smile!," and "Nobody waits at Walgreens!" 
The Walgreens-specific video is set to a 
raucous rap sing-along beat. It's really old 
school. It's really old. Groups of flat-topped 
employees are smiling, and yelling things 
like "Worlcing at Walgreens is great!" in 
unison. An African man with gapped teeth 
admits with a smile, "But worlcing at 
Walgreens can be hard." I can see myself in 
the reflection of the television: a little too 
much hair, collared shirt recently pur-
chased at Sal's, moth-bitten cartoonish 
mod tie, khalcis too short. I doubt I'll ever 
get in a company video. 

11:30 AM, February 5 
This week I'm in training, 9 AM to 3 PM. 
Then I start my graveyard shift, from 11 PM 
to 7 AM. Kay, a motherly woman in her 
early fifties, is training me today and 
tomorrow. 

Run it through the red light. Do it 
again until it beeps. Press Total when all the 
dom, diaper, and Dorito is in the front of 
its shelf space and at a ninety-degree angle. 
I face the items as fast as I can. 

Ah, new fish! 

When I finish, I ask Mr. Narichania 
what to do next. He thinks for a second. 
"Do it again, I guess." 

I get lonely here in the wee hours 
between night and day. Sometimes we only 
get one customer an hour, sometimes none. 
When they come I hang around them, 
inspecting their movements for a twitch 
toward the cash register and hoping they'll 
strike up a conversation. I dote. I want to 
tell them that I'm lonely and glad to have 
them, bur I don't. 

5:50 AM, February 25 
Strange things happen to my mind at 
Walgreens. Lee me explain. 

There is facing. I move an item a few 
inches forward so that it sits at the front of 
its display, right misplaced items, and turn 
items a few degrees this way or that, so that 
they are perfectly square. As always, it is the 
appearance of order that really matters. 

This work takes its toll on me. Absurd as it 
may seem, . the 
experience 
of 
cleaning up the 
store every night 
only to return the 
next evening and 
find it a jungle is 
something alcin to 
running 
on 
a 
treadmill, and I can't help harboring a 
secret animosity towards the customers for 
mussing up the displays. Then there is the 
repetitiveness of this work. I face thousands 
of items a night. There are over wo,ooo 
Walgreens employees in the United States 
of America; Wal-Mart employs "1.3 million 
associates worldwide"; Kmart, Target, Rite 
Aid, the list is endless, and the numbers 
pile up. Is this what human beings were put 
on this earth to do? 

Even though the work is mundane, 
purposeless, and repetitive, I have the 
intractable desire to do a good job and am 
often ashamed by it. 

The music is, to put it lightly, mad-
dening. It is omnipresent, persisting 
through the 2-5 AM hours despite the com-
plete lack of customers. In the break room 
I stand on a chair and turn the ceiling 
speaker off, but every night it's back on 
again. The osmosis of the Muzak's gray 
content into my brain is slowly driving me 
towards insanity. For once, I'm aware that 
some of my colleagues feel the same way, 
having discussed the matter with Joe the 
Security Guard. Husky country voices 
meld into overproduced pop ballads, an 
epidemic of synthesizers into pleading 
R&B tunes, pedestrian harmonicas into 
saxophone solos, painfully catchy odes into 
competitions over the use of the word 
"love." But it all sounds the same through 
these speakers. A friend reminds me that 
this music has probably been tested to 
ensure that it leads to a buying mood. I ask 
Mr. Narichania, and he confirms my suspi-
cion: The music is beamed into every 
Walgreens from a satellite. It comes from 
outer space! 

The day shift and night shift are com-
pletely different. During the day, there is 
action, movement, work to be done. 
During the night there is facing. During 
the day the workers talk to each other, 
laugh, do something to pass the hours and 
soften the job. During the night my col-
leagues are Janet and Mildred. Janet hasn't 
spoken a friendly word to me since I've 
arrived-she hasn't spoken 10 words to me, 
period. I like Mildred, but I worry that 
there's something wrong with her. A typical 
conversation: 

Me: You going to lunch? 
She: Yeah. 
Me [making quote symbols, smiling): 
"Lunch"? 
She: What you mean? 
Me: It's funny to have lunch at 4 AM ..• 
She: Yeah, that's lunchtime. 

The assistant manager before Mr. 
Narichania lasted only two months, and his 
predecessor's tenure was four weeks. So 
they shouldn't be too surprised that I'm 
planning on hanging up my blue vest in a 
few weeks. I feel guilty, of course. I don't 
think they'll mind too much, given that 
they get three or four new applications 
every night. The turnover is surprisingly 
quick in a high-profile gig like this. 

7:24 AM, March 3 
Kay walks in, finally. 
"My savior!" I yell with a grin. 

The customer in front of me, obese 
under her hospital garb, with Buddy Holly 
glasses and diagonally-slicked black hair 
asks, "T his means you can go home?" 
"Yeah. Gee a good night's sleep," I 
laugh. It's groggy, and I'm 7:23 AM. 
"I used co work nights, back when I 
started at the hospital, for three long years. 
The whole world is against you." 
"We should have our own neighbor-
hoods-" 
"Communities!" 
" ... where everyone gets a good day's 
sleep, and the calendar day stares at noon!" 
We pause. 
"It's a dream." 
I hand her some silver and a bag. 
"You have a good day." 

The trick here, as always, is to get 
through the next day, hour, and minute, 
and not to think about the weeks or 
months that may follow. It's just too 
depressing. So I sing at 2 AM, I dribble a 
children's bouncy ball at 3 AM, I dance at 4 
AM, and I almost lose my balance at 5 AM. 
I try to create a parliament of Happy 
Easter! balloons, and I build pyramids with 
a pile of Sony® 6 Hrs (EP) Brilliant Color 
and Sound Premium Grade videotapes. 

Bottom line is, my colleagues work the 
graveyard shift to get away from social 
interaction. 

3:40 AM, March 12 
A woman with brown hair and her left eye 
half-closed walks purposefully into the 
store and directly to the counter. 
"Other than these shirts here, do you 
guys sell, like, clothes?" I think for a second 
as her lame eye flutters. "My kid got all his 
clothes cut up yesterday," she confesses. 
I point her co aisle two, where 
Walgreens stocks a mysterious array of 
ghetto-fatigue XXL shirts and XS shorts in 
bright blues, oranges, and pinks. She runs 
over and returns with a shirt and a pair of 
socks. 
"What happened, if you don't mind 
my asking?" 
"Adam got in a car accident." My 
smile drops, and I ring up her Marlboros 
twice. "He and his ftiends were driving, 
and two quads-four wheelers, not cars!-
ran them off the road. The car flipped over, 
and he's in the hospital." 

11:00 PM, March 15 
As I show up to work one Friday night, my 
Honduran friend Jesus from the afrernoon 
shift is preparing to go, and we talk. 
''I'm leaving soon," I tell him. 
"But your shift just started!" 
"No, I mean this job." 
"Yeah? Me too. There's no life here." I 
know exactly what he means. "Three peo-
ple quit last week." 
"I guess it's going around, like some 
beautiful epidemic. What you doin' next?" 
"Computers. That's my field." I'm 
impressed, and I'm really happy for him. 

Lorna, short with pale features and 
reddish hair, ambles over to us. "I went to 
school to become an RN and a pharmacist. 
All those degrees, and I'm working,"-she 
lowers her eyes and her voice, pauses, then 
looks at me-"here. Nobody wanes to be 
here." 

A tall black woman steps up and inter-
rupts us. "Do you have an application?" 
I'm stoned, and I realize it's obvious as 
my hands reach like pincers for the form, 
which is missing. 
"Sorry, but we're all out." 


**Title: The Way the World Ends This**
**Author: Jacob Blecher**
**Page number(s): 35-36**

Novelist John Crowley rewrites history from the inside 
Th~ Translator by John Crowley (William Morrow, 2002.), pp. 285. 

F OR A FEW HOURS LAST FALL, we glimpsed history. Some of us 
watched from our sofas, others from rooftops in Brooklyn, and 
still others from the very jets that slammed into the World Trade 
Center. As the Twin Towers collapsed in a cloud of ash and smoke, 
the world changed irrevocably-yet in our sight. John Crowley, a 
professor of English at ·Yale, tries to capture something like this in 
his new novel Th~ Translator. What, he asks, is it like to experience 
and to be a part of history? Modest, yet scrupulously crafted, Th~ 
Translator offers rare insight into the inner workings of the past. 

Critics tend to categorize Crowley's fiction as magical realism 
or fantasy, but Th~ Translator hardly fits that mold. The novel is a 
work of historical fiction. The angels, talking a:nimals, time travel-
ers, magical houses, and elaborate, otherworldly milieus that per-
vade Crowley's previous seven novels and numerous novellas are 
glaringly absent, supplanted by normal people and historical figures 
in familiar, earthly surroundings. Set mostly in the si:nies at an 
unnamed midwestern university, the world of The Translator looks 
something like a baby-boomer's college yearbook: Characters sing 
Pete Seeger songs, get drunk, read the poetry of A. E. Housman, and 
go to student protests. 

The story begins in early 1962, the year of the Cuban missile 
crisis, when the novel's heroine Christa "Kit" Malone starts her 
freshman year of college a semester late. Like most gifted poets, Kit 
has gone through some rough times in her childhood. During her 
senior year of high school, she gave birth to a fatally deformed baby; 
later, she attempted suicide. None of this seems to matter, though, 
when she finagles her way into a class taught by an exiled Russian 
poet named lnnokenti Falin, a Joseph Brodsky type, and quickly 
falls in love with him. Falin at first appears gruff-he startles his 
students on the first day of class with the warning that they will be 
graded solely on the memorization of poems ("Best to memorize 
all," he says. "Observe this motto of Soviet Young Pioneers: Be 
Prepared')-but Kit finds his icy fa~de enchanting. When she 
bumps into him one night at the library and subsequently has cof-
fee with him at an aU-night diner, an improbable friendship devel-
ops between them. As the summer approaches, with the Cuban 
missile crisis looming in the background, Falin and Kit grow clos-
er-so close that he asks her ro help him translate his corpus into 
English. 

By Jacob Blecher

This storyline may sound sappy-and to some degree it is-
but Crowley has a knack for crafting beautiful sentences that 
redeem even the most mawkish narrative. As Kit hugs Falin before 
returning home for a few weeks, for instance, he writes, 

She knew-she knew by now-that there really can be a 
person, one at least, that you can embrace as easily and 
wholly as though the two of you were one thing, a thing 
that once upon a time was broken into pieces and is now 
put back together. And how could she know this unless he 
knew it too? It was part of the wholeness, that he must: 



**Title: The Translator**
**Author: Not specified**
**Page number(s): 37**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
and that too she knew. With her 
he was for a moment whole, they 
were whole: as whole as an egg, 
and as fragile. 

Though abstract, this is deeply affecting 
prose. 

Though the story centers on the tens-
est moment of the twentieth century, The 
Translator never turns into the sprawling 
war-epic, in the tradition of Tolstoy's ~r 
and Peace or Pynchon's Gravity's Rainbow, 
that one might hope for or expect. 

Although we learn that Falin is mysterious-
ly implicated in the Cold War and, what's 
more, that he is somehow responsible for 
the peaceful resolution of the Cuban mis-
sile crisis, the details of that plotline remain 
almost wholly unstated. When Kit asks 
Falin whether he is "some kind of ... 
agent," he replies cryptically, "Ah. But not 
all agents are secret. And not all secret 
agents are spies." Is the implication that 
Falin as poet somehow saves the world and 
changes the very direction of history? It is 
uncertain, and other details are similarly 
obscure. The full extent of Kit and Falin's 
relationship, for example, remains cloudy, 
even after Kit wakes up one morning in his 
bed. "You were lovers, then, in that sum-
mer?" a Russian scholar asks Kit as Crowley 
zooms out co a conference in St. Petersburg 
thirty years later commemorating what 
would have been Falin's 75th birthday. IGt 
fumbles for a second and then replies, "No, 
no . . . Not then. But yes a little later. Or 
maybe not. I mean ... I'm not sure." It is as 
if Crowley has purposely omitted four or 
five hundred pages of intrigue, action, and 
drama and left us with the more subdued 
interludes. 

This subdued quality is not without 
value, however. Much of the latent excite-
ment of the plot, as well as Crowley's affin-
ity for magical realism, seems "translated" 
into powerful metaphors and images. In 
one striking scene, right before Kit slits her 
wrists, she opens the mirrored door of a 
medicine cabinet, surprised "to find, 
behind her face, not the contents of her-
self," but only toiletries. This poignant 
mirror motif resurfaces throughout the 
work, especially in reference to Lewis 
Carroll's Through the Looking Glass, and 
What Alice Found There. Kit's favorite 
book, Through the Looking Glass comes to 
\.pRJL 2002 
symbolize (perhaps a bit too often) not 
only the Cold War, but also the sort of mir-
ror-image pas-tk-tkux in which she and 
Falin engage throughout the book. 

The verse that Crowley ghostwrites for 
Kit and Falin is an achievement in its own 
right. Few novelists dare to undertake such 
a difficult task. Crowley, though, manages 
both to construct independent voices for 
his two protagonists (though this is a major 
point of contention in the novel: whether 
true translation is possible, or simply "new 
poems") and to write a half dozen or so 
skillful poems. 

It is in this careful attention to lan-
guage, rather than in a grand, bloated plot-
line, that The Translator succeeds most as a 
novel. Precisely by rejecting an epic, multi-
character narrative, Crowley achieves 
something equally magnificient. He does 
not merely revise history; he puts a mysti-
cal, dreamy spin on what it means to be a 
part of it and to articulate ir. In reference to 
a childhood marked by constant relocation, 
Crowley writes of Kit, "To [her], the places 
[her family] lived were vivid, bur she 
remembered them like scenes from novels: 
separate and poignant and hers, but not 
her." In Crowley's own book, he has 
achieved something like this: not so much 
a coherent narrative as a series of punctuat-
ed moments, loosely connected to form a 
story. The Translator's retelling of the Cold 
War centers on individuals whose knowl-
edge of the past is vivid at times and frag-
mented or blurry at others. If nothing else, 
the novel offers a unique and deeply per-
sonal vantage point from which to reflect 
on the mysteries of language, history, and 
time. 

To be sure, The Translator is one of 
Crowley's least ambitious projects in recent 
years. It represents a turn to accessibility for 
an author whose novels have attracted only 
a small, mostly bookish following in the 
past. But this may be more a sign of versa-
tility than senility; Crowley is a profoundly 
talented writer, and he deserves far better 
than to fall through the cracks of history 
like his male protagonist. 


**Title: New Haven's Beeping Stoplights**
**Author: Jessica Cohn**
**Page number(s): 38**

NEW HAVEN: HOME OF Pepe's pizza, Louis' 
burgers, sons and daughters of Eli, and the 
only buzzing, beeping, count-down savvy, 
two-way walk traffic lights I know. When I 
first encountered the beeping traffic light 
outside of Commons two years ago, I was 
taken aback. I stood and watched a few 
cycles of red and green. Back then, the light 
on the corner of Grove and College merely 
chirped. Now, it beeps and counts crossable 
time down from 30. If New Haven traffic 
controls continue to evolve at this rate, 
stoplights may soon be running the city. 

This breed of vocal stoplight is rapidly 
multiplying throughout New Haven. 

Sentient traffic lights can now be found at 
Chapel ·and Temple, York_ and Elm, and 
Grove and Whitney. I was eager to learn 
more about these marvels of traffic-control 
technology. So I called Ernie LeGoya at 
the 
Connecticut 
Department 
of 
Transportation. He immediately informed 
me that when it comes to regulating traffic, 
New Haven is something of a renegade 
municipality. While the DOT manages traf-
fic for many Connecticut cities, LeGoya 
told me that "New Haven likes to be in 
charge of all their signals. They even do all 
their own painting. You know, the yellow 
on the curbs." LeGoya was kind enough to 
help me get in touch with the people in 
charge. 

Bruce Fischer of New Haven Traffic 
Control was baffled by my keen interest in 
his job. Explaining my mission, I began 
throwing questions at him. His responses 
were elusive: "You might think we're doing 
some things that we're not." Hmm. But 
why, I insisted, does New Haven have such 
unusual stoplights? Fischer explained that 
be and his staff were simply responding to 
public demand. The beeping stoplights are 
for the visually impaired, and the count-
downs arrived as a solution to the com-
plaint from senior citizens that they didn't 
have enough time to cross. "Older people 
got scared," he explains. The pre-count-
down era stoplights had eight seconds of 
white "walk" and then twelve seconds of 
flashing red "don't walk." The flashing was 
supposed to inform the pedestrian to finish 
crossing the street and to warn pedestrians 
on the curb not to begin. Fischer and the 
department received many complaints 
from elderly residents. "They saw the flash-
ing begin when they were half-way across 
the street and they thought they were sup-
posed to turn around." Fortunately, the 
countdown gives the ful[ allotted time. 

Fischer elaborated, "We just try to respond 
to the needs of an area." The countdown 
stoplight makes perfect sense: Who would-
n't love to get old people out of the middle 
of the road? 

As Fischer became more and more 
excited, he lost his reserve and revealed the 
secrets behind New Haven's advanced stop-
light technology. "We have a staff of people 
interested in the new technology. We see a 
new light and say 'Gee! We want that new 
. kind of walkway here!"' Fischer said proud-
ly, The truth is, the countdown stoplight 
has not been approved by all DOT's. In fact, 
the state opposes New Haven's use of the 
countdowns. Personally, I'm glad we have 
Fischer on the job. He has a bold vision for 
the future of intersections around New 
Haven. Some day, those boring yellow 
poles at every corner may begin to vibrate 
when the walk signal is up--a service for 
the seeing and hearing impaired. Crossing 
the street could become a sensory extrava-
ganza. 

Fischer's mission goes well beyond 
stoplights. He is every pedestrian's friend. 
"We want to make it easier for people to 
walk." Years ago, for example, Broadway 
was one wide street. The city and the 
University worried about students crossing 
at various locations, so they cooperated and 
built the parking lot and walkway system 
that now divide the street. Fischer's depart-
ment directs our feet, and the walls and 
marked waJkways make crossing Broadway 
a safe and even pleasant experience. 

Unfortunately, traffic lights and traffic 
laws are consistently abused. New Haven 
citizens-Yale students especially-take 
jaywalking to new extremes. The biggest 
problem for New Haven officials is the 
stretch of Elm Street at:weert 
College and ~ 
weekday arounJ 11:20 AM, 
cars must stop in their rradc.s 
as droves of eager 'Stude ts 
edge out into the streef. Fischer 
astutely observes, "People take 
shortest route. To encourage people 
to walk to the cross street is very dif-
ficult, especially young people dash-
ing across the street." Fischer and the 
department have talked about placing 
waist-high New York-style fences along the 
curb. He expects that there will be substan-
tial opposition and made it dear that it is 
only an idea. ''I'm only projecting that. It's 
a distant possibility." 

As you dart diagonally across the 
Comrnons-sss intersection, you probably 
aren't thinking about Bruce Fischer or the 
DOT, nor do you realize that you are break-
ing a city ordinance that Fischer takes quite 
seriously. I asked Fischer about the "diago-
nal cross" phenomenon (as I naively 
termed it). He didn't understand what I 
meant. 

I tried again in more technical 
terms, and soon we were on the same page. 
"Oh you mean the protected pedestrian 
phase? That is not a diagonal cross time." 
Fischer warned explicitly that no one 
should ever be crossing the street diagonal-
ly, even if the lights are beeping and count-
ing down. "I'm just trying to protect the 
most vulnerable people," Fischer told me in 
our conversation. The "protected pedestri-
an phases" are part of an intricate light pro-
gram intended to coordinate pedestrian 
and vehicular paths in the safest, most effi-
cient manner. The beep and countdown are 
there for our safety. They are a New Haven 
privilege, and yet we continue to disrespect 
the beep, the countdown, and the double 
walk, increasing our vulnerability with each 
"diagonal cross." 



J~ssica Cohm, a junior in Timothy Dwight 
Colkge, is managing ~ditor for TNJ. 

THE YALE BOOKSTORE 



**Title: None**
**Author: None**
**Page number(s): 40**

EXTRACT ARTICLE CONTENT:
Binding 
Business Cards 
Laser Color Copies Canon•'Ricoh•Xerox 
Large Format Color Copies 
Cassette Copying 
Desktop Publishing 
Digital Output 
Faxing 
Graphic Design 
Highlight Color Copying 
Laminating 
Large Document Copying 
Mailing Service 
Mounting 
Offset Printing 
Passport Photos 
Resume Service 
~ 
Rubber Stamps 
Scanning 
Xeroxing 
35mm Slides 
Announcements 
Banners 
Dissertations 
Enlargements 
Envelopes 
Flyers 
Forms 
Invitations 
lAbels 
Letterheads 
NCR Forms 
Programs 
Reductions 
Reports 
Tickets 
Specialty Printing 
TY c 0 262 Elm Street. New Haven. cr. 203-562-9723 • fax: 203-562-6256 . www.tycocopy.corr 

